mwOOD AND THE 
BL1C HEALTH 



CO 



:C0 



WC. SAVAGE 

BSc. M.D. (lond).IM?H. 




Presented to 

Gbe Xtbrarp 

of tbe 

Tflniversit? of Toronto 
The 



Out 



T)b2L-rX^ 



Brar>eV> 



t 



r 
The Ca^naLdiAm Red C-ra$s 

Oocvtty 



DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH NURSING 

UNIVERSITY OF TOROi< . O 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2007 with funding from 

Microsoft Corporation 



http://www.archive.org/details/foodpublichealthOOsavauoft 



ENGLISH PUBLIC HEALTH SERIES 
Edited by Sir Malcolm Morris, K.C.V.O. 



FOOD AND THE PUBLIC HEALTH 



s. 



Food and the Public 
Health 



BY 

WILLIAM Gf SAVAGE 

B.Sc, M.D.Lond., D.P.H. 

County Medical Officer of Health, Somerset; Author of 

"Milk and the Public Health," "The Bacteriological 

Examination of Food and Water," etc. 



With Eight Half-tone Plates 




CASSELL AND COMPANY, LTD 

London, New York, Toronto and Melbourne 



First published 1919 



PREFACE 

Without knowledge there can be no real pro- 
gress. .With partial and inaccurate knowledge 
progress may result, but is likely to be halting, 
limited and misdirected. 

There are few subjects which the general public, 
and those who advise and form public opinion, 
are so much interested as in that of food. Un- 
fortunately, much of the information which reaches 
the public is unbalanced and unequal in its 
presentation. 

Fbunts of truth there are in plenty in the 
numerous excellent textbooks on the subject, but 
their technicalities obscure the truth for those who 
do not hold the key. This little book is written in 
language as little technical as possible so that all 
who will may acquire a clear and balanced know- 
ledge of food in its relation to the health of the 
community. 

I am greatly indebted to Dr. Hope, Medical 
Officer of Health of Liverpool, for allowing me 
to use Plates II., VI., and VIII. from his valuable 
collection; to Messrs. Macmillan & Co. for per- 
mitting me to copy Plates III. and V. from my 



Preface 

book "Milk and the Public Health," published 
by them, and to Dr. Lauder for permission to re- 
produce Plate IV., which illustrates the instructive 
paper by him and Mr. Cunningham on "Some 
Factors affecting the Bacteriological Content of 
Milk." 

W. G. S. 



VI 



CONTENTS 

CHAPTER I 

Food Generally as a Cause of Ill-Health 
or Disease 

PAGE 

How Health is affected by Food — Classification of Food 
Constituents — Calories— Digestibility of Foods — Com- 
position of Common Foods — Effects of Insufficient 
Food — Effects of Excessive Food — Vitamines — Beriberi, 
Scurvy and Rickets — Vegetarianism — Naturally Poison- 
ous Foods i 



CHAPTER II 

Chemical Additions to Food 

Chemicals introduced unintentionally in Manufacture — 
Arsenic in Beer, etc. — Contamination of Food with 
Lead and Copper — Chemicals introduced from the 
Action of Food upon the Retainers — Irritating Effects 
of Tin — Chemicals deliberately added — Boric Acid 
and Other Chemical Preservatives — An Unsatisfactory 
Situation — Work for the Ministry of Health — Colour- 
ing Matters 24 

CHAPTER III 

Bacterial Diseases disseminated through Foods 

Infection a Complicated Process— Bacteria, Harmless and 
Pathogenic— Their Rate of Growth— Their Resistant 
vii 



Contents 



Powers— Susceptibility to Bacterial Invasion— Im- 
munity — Dosage of Infection — Paths of Infection — 
Carriers — Flies as Vehicles of Infection — Dust — The 
Protection afforded by Cooking — Cold Storage — Dry- 
ing of Foods — Canning — Domestic Preservation — Im- 
portance of Cleanliness in Preparation of Foods . . 41 

CHAPTER IV 

Alcoholic and other Beverages 

Antiquity of Alcoholic Drinks — Wines — Malt Liquors — 
Spirits — Food Value of Alcohol — Its Relation to Diges- 
tion — Alcohol as a Drug and a Poison — Economic 
Aspect of Alcoholic Beverages — Tea — Coffee — Cocoa . 67 

CHAPTER V 

Milk and Milk Products 

Milk and Disease — Composition of Milk — The Legal 
Standard — Inadequacy of the Enactments to ensure 
the Quality of Milk — Diseases of Cows conveyed by 
Milk — Undulant Fever — Sore Throat — Tuberculosis — 
Bovine Tuberculosis in Children — The Tuberculosis 
Order, 1914 — Need for a Vigorous Handling of the 
Question of Tuberculosis in Cattle — Contamination of 
Pure Milk with Germs of Diphtheria, Scarlet Fever 
and Typhoid Fever — Characters of Milk-borne Out- 
breaks — How Bacteria get into Milk — Careless Milk- 
ing in insanitary Cowsheds — Milk-straining — (Con- 
tamination in Transit and in Milkshops and 
Dwellings — Cooling of Milk — Milk and Infantile 
Mortality — Why a Pure Milk Supply is still to seek — 
Importance of Cleanliness at the Source — Pasteurisa- 
tion and Sterilisation — Grading — -Ignorance and Heed- 
lessness of the Consumer— The New Milk Act— Con- 
densed Milk — Dried Milk — Butter — Margarine — 

Cheese — Ice-cream 79 

viii 



Contents 

CHAPTER VI 
Meat Foods 

PAOB 

Animal Diseases in Man derived from Food — Tuberculosis 
from Meat — Growth of Bacteria in Meat — Infection in 
the Slaughter-house — Lack of Cooling-rooms — Infection 
of Prepared Meat Foods — Inadequate Supervision — In- 
sanitary Restaurant Kitchens — So-called Ptomaine 
Poisoning — Poisoning from Foods other than Meat — 
Usual History of Outbreaks of Food-poisoning — 
Botulism — Food and Animal Parasites — Tapeworms — 
Trichinosis 113 

CHAPTER VII 

Foods of Vegetable Origin 

Diseases of Plants — Ergotism — Lathyrism — Bacteria and 
Flour — Watercress— "Ropy " Bread — "Potato Poison- 
ing " — Adulterated Vegetable Foods — Faked Flour — 
Artifically Bleached Flour — Dangerous Baking 
Powders — Flour Improvers 131 

CHAPTER VIII 

Shell-Fish 

Relation of Shell-Fish to Disease — Idiosyncrasy — Poisonous 
Mussels — "Green" Oysters — Oyster-beds in Sewage- 
contaminated Estuaries — Danger of Infection with 
Typhoid Bacillus — Outbreak of Typhoid Fever from 
Oyster-infection— Cockles and Mussels . . . .141 



INDEX .... 

ix 



149 



LIST OF HALF-TONE PLATES 

PLATE FACING PAGE 

i. Separate cooling-room of a properly constructed 
slaughter-house .... Frontispiece. 

2. Yard of refuse destructor as breeding-place for 

flies. Provision shop in which bacteria-laden 
flies were caught 52 

3. Manure-plastered cows in a shed with a good floor 92 

4. To show the effect of washing the udders of cows 

in reducing the number of bacteria in milk . 93 

5. Cowshed with dirty surroundings .... 94 

6. Badly lighted and drained country cowshed from 

which tuberculous milk was sent to a large city 95 

7. Part of carcass of ox, showing patches of tubercu- 

losis-growth 114 

8. Defective private slaughter-house (now closed) . 116 



FOOD AND THE PUBLIC 
HEALTH 

CHAPTER I 

Food Generally as a Cause of Ill-Health 
or Disease 

Man needs but little here below (whatever he may 
want), but of these needs food is an essential, and 
variations in its quality and quantity rapidly 
produce an effect upon health. 

How health is affected by food. — It will 
clarify the subject to set out the different ways in 
which health may be affected through food. 

i. The food may be wrong in quantity as a 
whole or wrong as regards the relative proportions 
of its different constituents. 

2. The food may be naturally poisonous, being 
derived from plants or animals which under 
ordinary conditions contain substances inimical to 
man. 

3. The food may be a cause of disease because 
derived from plants or animals which are attacked 



Food and the Public Health 

by diseases capable of being conveyed through 
food to man. The cause of these diseases may be 
vegetable parasites such as ergot, animal parasites 
such as tapeworms, bacterial parasites like the 
bacteria of tuberculosis and anthrax. 

4. The food may originate from healthy sources 
but become contaminated subsequently with animal 
parasites or harmful bacteria. 

5. The food may be prejudicial because it has 
become mixed with chemical substances which are 
harmful. The addition may be accidental, like tin 
from canned foods, or deliberate as when chemicals 
are added as food preservatives. 

Summarised, the above resolve themselves into 
defects of quantity (as a whole or of individual 
constituents), inherently poisonous constituents, or 
infection or admixture with harmful foreign bodies 
— animal or vegetable parasites, bacteria, chemical 
substances. 

The prejudicial effects from admixture with 
harmful foreign bodies are considered in the 
following chapters; the other two sources of ill- 
health are dealt with in the present chapter. 

Food is necessary for growth, maintenance of 
the tissues and making up for wear and tear, to 
keep up the body temperature and to supply the 
energy necessary to enable work to be performed. 
It follows that the amount of food required by 
different individuals to maintain them in a healthy 
condition must vary widely since these factors vary 



Food and Disease 

so greatly with different persons. The problem is 
complicated also by the fact that the ability to 
digest and so utilise food varies considerably, so 
that persons of very similar habits and energy 
needs may maintain their health upon very different 
quantities of food, even though their food contains 
approximately the same constituents. There are, 
however, certain minima and maxima which are 
generally applicable, but to understand these it will 
be necessary to explain something of the general 
composition of foods. 

Classification of food constituents. — Nearly 
all the ordinary articles of diet are not simple 
bodies, but are made up of a mixture of different 
substances of varying degrees of utility to the body. 
But all the constituents of the innumerable varieties 
of foods can be grouped chemically into four 
classes. These are, inorganic salts, proteins, 
carbohydrates and fats; while, in addition, there 
are certain very important accessory substances 
called vitamines which can hardly be grouped as a 
class of foodstuffs. All foods consist of a mixture 
with water of one or more of these groups. 

Of the inorganic salts and of water little need be 
said, except that they are essential and are 
abundantly present in ordinary diets. The extent 
to which a deficiency of a salt, such as iron or 
calcium, affects health is a subject of importance, 
but in regard to which our knowledge is not very 
definite. Any ill-health from their deficiency may 

3 



Food and the Public Health 

not be due to an insufficient supply in food, but 
may result from inadequate absorption from the 
intestine. It is popularly supposed that an excess 
of calcium salts from hard water or in foods leads 
to stone in the kidney, disease of the arteries, etc., 
but there is no reliable evidence of this. It is very 
doubtful if the intestine absorbs more calcium than 
is required. 

A sufficiency of proteins in the diet is essential 
since they are the only form of food which contains 
nitrogen, and nitrogen is a constituent of every 
tissue in the body. The function of building up 
the tissues and of repairing, them when wasted can 
only be fulfilled by the proteins, with the help of 
inorganic salts and, of course, water, White of 
egg and fat-free meat are mostly protein in nature, 
and all proteins are of great complexity of chemical 
structure. They all contain carbon, hydrogen and 
oxygen as well as nitrogen, while some of the 
many varieties contain also phosphorus and 
sulphur. 

The carbohydrates (the sugars and starch) and 
the fats are both composed of compounds built up 
entirely of carbon, hydrogen and oxygen, but differ 
chemically in the relative proportions of these 
elements. In the carbohydrates the oxygen is 
always twice as much as the hydrogen, in the fats 
the proportion is less than this. 

For the most part, carbohydrates and fats can 
replace one another in diets, but there must always 

4 



Food and Disease 

be enough protein to supply the nitrogen necessary. 
On the other hand, an excess of proteins — that is, 
more than requisite to maintain the equilibrium 
necessary for health — means that the body has to 
get rid of the excess of nitrogen beyond its needs, 
since proteins cannot be stored up in the body, 
and this throws a strain upon the organs of 
excretion (especially the kidneys) which, if long 
persisted in, may result in permanent injury. 

To obtain a satisfactory diet involves an adjust- 
ment of a number of factors of which it is possible 
here to indicate only the outlines. A further factor 
is the energy yielded. 

Calories. — Since the food is required to supply 
energy, calculations as to the amounts needed have 
to be converted, and considered in terms of the 
energy they will yield, and since energy and heat 
are interchangeable and bear an exact, invariable 
relation to one another, this energy is measured 
in terms of calories. A calorie is the quantity of 
heat energy required to raise the temperature of 
one kilogramme of water by one degree on the 
centigrade scale. The heat given off by food is 
something which can be definitely measured. 

Careful estimations have shown that the calorie 
value of i gramme of each of the chief foodstuffs 
is : 

Fat 93 calories 

Carbohydrate 4.1 ,, 

Protein 41 „ 

5 



Food and the Public Health 

The amount of calories required will vary not only 
with the size of the individual, and to some extent • 
with the temperature, but especially with the 
amount of work which has to be done. It is 
obvious that heavy muscular work involves a heavy 
expenditure of energy and necessitates food of a 
high calorific power. So large a portion of the 
food consumed is needed to keep up the body 
temperature that it is evident that in hot climates 
much less food is required and one of a lower value 
in calories. 

Digestibility of foods. — Another factor which 
has to be taken into consideration in dietary 
framing is the digestibility of the food. Food is 
of no use to the body unless it can be converted 
by the digestive system into substances which can 
be absorbed into the blood, and so take part in the 
work of the body. From this point of view we 
must consider the alimentary canal as a convoluted 
tube of variable calibre running through the body, 
the contents of which are to all intents apart from 
the body structure and only of value when absorbed 
into it. With this simple conception in mind it 
is obviously of the first importance that food should 
be digestible, and also adapted to the digestive 
organs of the person eating or drinking it. 

For example, green vegetables are bulky, and 
if we consider merely the amounts of nutritive 
elements contained in them or the amount of heat 
energy which it is possible to obtain from them 

6 



Food and Disease 

under the best conditions they would appear as 
highly nutritive foods. They, however, largely 
consist of cellulose, a most indigestible substance, 
little of which is broken down and absorbed. These 
foods are chiefly valuable for other purposes. 

An illustration of the need to consider also the 
digestive capacity of the individual is furnished by 
the unsuitability of starchy foods for young infants. 
Starchy foods such as rice, bread, and potatoes are 
readily converted into sugar and so digested by 
adults and children, but in infants only a few 
months old the necessary digestive ferments are 
absent, and starch fed to them remains starch and 
is not absorbed at all, and is only comparable in 
suitability to a diet of indiarubber. 

Common foods. — The composition of some of 
the more common foods as regards their percentage 
of protein, fat, and carbohydrate is shown in the 
table on p. 8. 

Knowing the calories yielded by one gramme 
of protein, fat, or carbohydrate, it is easy to 
calculate the heat-producing value (calories) of any 
definite amount of food. This is shown in the last 
column of the table. An ounce is equal to 28.35 
grammes. 

The table shows that the animal foods are 
especially rich in proteins and fats, while vegetable 
foods are the chief source of carbohydrate. Certain 
vegetable foods however, such as peas, beans, and 
oatmeal, contain a high proportion of protein and 

7 



Food and the Public Health 



PERCENTAGE COMPOSITION OF FOODS* 

The figures refer to foods as bought, all necessary waste 
being allowed for, except the bones in butcher's meat : — 



Food 


Pro- 
tein 


Fat 


Carbo- 
hydrate 


Calories 
per oz. 


Wheat flour 


II 


i 


75 


103 


Bread 






8 


I 


52 


74 


Oatmeal . 






15 


8 


60 


108 


Rice 






8 


o 


79 


102 


Beef (fat) 






17 


31 


— 


IOI 


„ (medium fat) 






15 


18 


— 


65 


Mutton . 






13 


27 


— 


87 


Bacon 






IO 


6o 


— 


169 


Ham 






14 


33 


— 


104 


Pork 






IO 


4° 


— 


117 


Eggs 






12 


9 


— 


39 


Rabbits . 






14 


7 


— 


35 


Cod, hake, etc. 






IO 


i 


— 


14 


Herring . 






II 


4 


— 


23 


Salmon . 






15 


9 


— 


41 


Milk 






3 


4 


5 


20 


Butter . 






I 


85 


— 


225 


Margarine 






I 


84 


— 


223 


Cheese 






25 


30 


2 


III 


Beans, peas, and 


lentil 


1 










(dried) 






24 


1 


60 


102 


Beans (in pod) 






5 


— 


15 


23 


Potato . 






2 


— 


15 


19 


Turnip 






I 


— 


6 


8 


Onion 






I 


— 


5 


7 


Apples 









— 


11 


14 


Bananas . 






I 


— 


14 


19 


Jam and marmalade 






I 


— 


50 


59 


Sugar 









— 


98 


114 


Honey . 









— 


81 


95 



From •• Food and How to Save it,' 
8 



by Dr. E. I. Spriggs. 



Food and Disease 

are of great value in constructing a dietary because 
of their relative cheapness. They possess the draw- 
back of being less readily and completely digested 
than the animal proteins. The cheapest source of 
animal protein is probably cheese, while separated 
milk also yields a cheap supply of proteins. 

Although fats and carbohydrates can largely 
replace one another, it is not a matter of indifference 
which is taken, and the cheaper carbohydrates 
cannot be used entirely to replace fat. Different 
authorities give figures for the amount of protein 
considered as essential, varying from as little as 70 
to as much as 130 grammes. The tendency in 
recent years has been rather to reduce the minimal 
figure. At the present time quantities which are 
fairly generally accepted for a man of average 
weight doing a moderate quantity of muscular 
work are 100 grammes of protein, 100 grammes of 
fat, and 500 grammes of carbohydrate, in the 
twenty-four hours. 

These quantities of food will yield 410 calories 
from the protein, 930 from the fat and 2,050 from 
the carbohydrate, or 3,390 calories in all. This 
tale of calories (say 3,400) is about the number 
required for a man doing moderate muscular work ; 
with only light work 3,000 calories may suffice, 
while heavy muscular work requires a diet yielding 
5,000 calories or even more. 

Professor Bayliss gives the war ration in the 
field for our armies in 1917 as protein 158 grammes, 

9 



Food and the Public Health 

fat 200 grammes, carbohydrate 514 grammes, with 
a total energy value of 4,600 calories. 

These facts form part of the very important 
subject of dietetics, and from them it is evident that 
the relationship of food to health, excluding all 
considerations of unsoundness or harmful additions, 
is a very complex one. It involves the possibility 
of illness not only from a general chronic excess 
or insufficiency of food, but also from an excess or 
insufficiency of particular essential elements in the 
food. 

Effects of insufficient food. — While the body 
can tolerate without much harm an insuffi- 
ciency of food lasting for only comparatively 
short periods, prolonged and chronic inadequacy 
of food is highly injurious. Similarly, an ill- 
balanced diet, one for example containing an 
insufficiency of proteins, if persisted in may be 
almost equally harmful and is a condition more 
commonly met with. A person on such a diet may 
be well nourished, even fat, and still be starved, 
the essential tissue-forming proteins (the most 
costly part of food) being inadequately represented. 

If the body is supplied with less food than is 
necessary for its nourishment the balance of the 
energy required to carry on its various functions 
must be obtained from the body itself. From what 
has been said above, it is clear that the amount of 
energy absolutely necessary can be much reduced 
by measures such as the restriction of muscular 

10 



Food and Disease 

work, or the diminution of heat loss by warmer 
clothing, or by living; in a warmer atmosphere. As 
we all know, a person resting in bed with adequate 
clothing will expend much less energy and so need 
far less food than one up and about and doing 
considerable muscular work. 

Diminished energy requirements may tem- 
porarily reduce the need, but if the food is further 
reduced the energy necessary is obtained at the 
expense of the tissues themselves. They are burnt 
up in the body, the less vital (such as the muscles) 
being affected more than those necessary to life, 
which are but little wasted. Such a condition of 
affairs, if continued, will of course result in death, 
but long before that stage is reached a condition 
of lowered resistance to disease is induced which 
makes those who are so subjected very liable to be 
attacked by bacterial diseases. The prevalence of 
typhus fever in Ireland following the potato 
famine is a well-known illustration, while the 
ravages of influenza in Germany in 191 8 were said 
to be seriously heightened and the death-rate much 
increased by chronic underfeeding. 

The disease which is especially liable to be 
contracted is tuberculosis. The germ of this 
disease, the tubercle bacillus, is so widespread that 
most persons get infected. It is the debilitated, 
from chronic underfeeding or an insanitary 
environment, in whom the infection becomes estab- 
lished and who principally fall victims. Pro- 

11 



Food and the Public Health 

b'ably no small part of the phenomenal decline in 
tuberculosis during the last half-century has been 
due to the cheapening of food (especially sugar) 
and the consequent better feeding of the population 
generally. 

Modern research has established that the body 
can be maintained in health on far less protein 
than was at one time considered necessary, but if 
the proteins are reduced beyond the safety mini- 
mum (probably at least 80 grammes in the twenty- 
four hours) the body becomes insuffciently 
nourished and the resistance to infection lowered. 

Figures from inquiries made in London, York, 
Glasgow and elsewhere before the War showed that 
a considerable percentage of the population was 
chronically underfed. This was partially due to 
improvidence and to lack of knowledge of scientific 
marketing, combined with ignorance of food 
values, but was in the main the result of wages 
insufficient to supply the food requirements of the 
family. While the economic question may be 
tackled, there is a real danger that it may not go 
hand in hand with persistent education of the 
people in food values and the proper utilisation of 
food. The economic necessities of the War have 
done something in this direction, but not nearly 
enough of a permanent character. 

Effects of excessive food. — The effects of a 
chronic excess of food are less evident and defined. 
With young, active persons excess of food is 

12 



Food and Disease 

eliminated without harm owing to the greater 
tissue changes and other activities involved in 
vigorous exercise. When the amount of food is 
beyond what the body can deal with, some of the 
excess of the non-nitrogenous food may be 
deposited as fat, but the remainder has to be got 
rid of, either by excessive decomposition in the 
intestinal tract or in part through the kidneys. 
In the former the decomposition changes may 
cause indigestion and a general feeling of ill-health 
from defective elimination. 

Any excessive strain on the kidneys arises 
chiefly from excess of the nitrogenous food, since 
proteins cannot be stored in the body, and the 
overplus must be eliminated mainly through these 
organs. In spite of considerable speculation and 
inquiry it is not possible with our present know- 
ledge to say definitely to what extent such excessive 
work thrown upon the kidneys damages them, but 
it is a likely supposition that it does so. 

Vitamines. — Great interest has been excited in 
scientific circles in recent years by the discovery 
of certain accessory substances in food which are of 
paramount importance, since they are essential to 
health. As already mentioned, they are generally 
called vitamines, and are present in most natural 
foods, but only in quite small amount, while their 
chemical nature is at present unknown. They are 
essential to nutrition since definite disease re- 
sults when they are withheld. Careful scientific 

13 



Food and the Public Health 

experiments have shown that when animals are 
fed on a mixture of pure protein, starch and 
vegetable fats, they do not thrive, and indeed 
die. if the experiment is prolonged sufficiently. 
From the point of view of nutritive sub- 
stances the supply is ample, but vitamines are 
lacking, and when they are added to such a diet, 
for example by the addition of a quite small amount 
of fresh milk, satisfactory growth results. The 
vitamines are necessary to co-ordinate the materials 
and energy supplied by ordinary foods. It is 
sometimes advanced that mankind has had so long 
an experience in the selection of its food that 
conclusions based upon scientific and theoretical 
considerations are really of no practical value, and 
that man may safely be left to his own devices. 
While there is a good deal in this contention, the 
problems arising out of the discovery of vitamines 
show very conclusively that there is a limit to its 
application, and that when artificial methods of 
preparation of foods are introduced and widely 
adopted there is grave danger of ill-health resulting 
from food selection uncontrolled by scientific con- 
siderations. Examples of such artificially treated 
foods are tinned foods, milled wheat, rice and other 
cereals, and the substitution of made-up vegetable 
fats like margarine for butter. The two best known 
instances of diseases being so caused are beri-beri 
and scurvy. 

~Beri-beri is a disease chiefly met with abroad 
14 



Food and Disease 

(Japan, the Malay Peninsula, the Dutch Indies, 
etc.), and characterised by wasting and other more 
definitely nervous symptoms due to inflammation 
and degeneration of certain of the nerves. In- 
dividuals so affected almost invariably have been 
found to have lived on a diet which entirely or 
mainly consisted of "polished" rice, i.e. rice from 
which the husk had been removed. The number 
of cases of this disease increased markedly with 
the introduction of modern milling machinery. 
The classical figures of the Dutch physician 
Eijkmann dealing with prisoners in the jail of the 
Dutch East Indies, published in 1897, strikingly 
illustrate this relationship. In 37 prisons un- 
polished rice was employed, and only in one of 
these institutions did cases of beri-beri arise; in 13 
prisons both polished and unpolished rice was used, 
and this disease developed in 6, while in 51 prisons 
where only polished rice was eaten, in 36 beri-beri 
occurred. The facts are even more striking when 
individuals are considered. Per 10,000 of the 
prison population, there was only one case amongst 
the eaters of unpolished rice compared with 416 on 
the dietary of the mixed rice, and 3,900 on polished 
rice alone. The essential difference between the 
two kinds of rice was that in the polished variety 
the germ (or embryo) and the very thin layer lying 
outside the husk-free seed were also removed. 

On a diet of ordinary (unpolished) rice the 
disease does not occur, while, if not too advanced, 

r 5 



Food and the Public Health 

it can be cured by a diet containing the appropriate 
vitamine. The disease can be reproduced experi- 
mentally in birds by feeding them upon a diet of 
polished rice. 

Scurvy is another deficiency disease, and is due 
to the consumption of food lacking in a particular 
vitamine over a considerable period of time. This 
vitamine is contained in a number of fresh foods, 
particularly lemons, oranges and fresh green 
vegetables, but is also present in smaller quantities 
in swedes, potatoes and other tubers, and in even 
smaller amounts in fresh meat and milk. It is 
absent in all dried and preserved foods. The 
destruction of the anti-scorbutic properties of food 
depends rather upon the time than upon the 
temperature employed. Prolonged heating, such 
as takes places during stewing, destroys the 
vitamine. 

While peas, beans and lentils in the dried 
condition have no anti-scorbutic properties, if 
soaked in water and allowed to germinate for one 
or two days they develop the vitamine which can 
prevent scurvy. 

These facts, some of which have only recently 
been established, explain the value which for 
many years has been attached to a fresh diet, and 
particularly to the administration of lemon juice 
as an anti-scorbutic remedy. It is an excellent 
illustration of a scientific explanation being forth- 
coming for measures introduced as the result of 

16 



Food and Disease 

careful observation and of proved reliability but 
for which the scientific reason was unknown. 
Deductions from observations, if accurate and 
controlled, are always of great value, even if the 
underlying explanation is wanting or given in- 
correctly. 

Although these substances have not yet been 
isolated, we know that there are a number of 
vitamines or "accessory factors" in foods. Two at 
least are essential for nutrition, one of them 
associated with certain fats, while the other is 
soluble in water. Both must be present if nutrition 
is to progress in a satisfactory manner. It is also 
of interest to note that plants are dependent for 
normal growth on similar factors. 

Experts are still not unanimous as to whether the 
boiling of milk damages it in any essential. The 
minority, who take the view that it does, consider 
that, amongst other points of objection, boiling 
destroys the vitamines which are present in fresh 
milk. While there are some facts showing that the 
vitamines in milk are diminished by boiling, the 
balance of evidence shows convincingly that it does 
not to any important extent affect the nutritive 
value of milk for infants. It is a question of a 
hypothetical drawback against the manifest dangers 
of bacterial infection from unboiled milk. 

Rickets is a very widespread and prevalent 
disease which is closely associated with a faulty 
diet, but for which up to the present we cannot 

c i 7 



Food and the Public Health 

ascribe any one definite cause. A theory widely 
accepted at one time was that it was due to a 
deficiency of fat in the food, but recent investiga- 
tions have rather discredited this view, and the 
latest series of studies suggests that inadequate 
exercise and insufficient fresh air are more potent 
factors than questions of diet in causing this 
disease. On the other hand, there is a good deal 
of evidence that this disease is due not so much to 
a general deficiency of fat as to the absence from 
the diet of a sufficiency of the fat-soluble type of 
vitamine. 

Vegetarianism. — Like many other popular 
expressions, this term will not bear a literal in- 
terpretation, and, as used in practice, a vegetarian 
means not a person who lives on vegetables, but 
one who avoids the use of animal flesh as an 
article of diet. A discussion of this cult on its 
moral ground that humanity forbids the slaughter 
of animals for food is outside the scope of this 
volume, but a further claim is made that physio- 
logically such a diet is justifiable as healthier and 
better for the individual than one containing 
meat. 

The facts already furnished show that it is 
possible for man to obtain all the nourishment he 
needs without any recourse to the flesh of animals. 
As regards carbohydrates, it is evident that in 
any case non-fleshy foods must be his main source 
of supply, while it is possible to obtain from 

18 



Food and Disease 

vegetable sources any fat which cannot be replaced 
by carbohydrates. 

It has, however, been shown that man requires 
proteins in considerable quantity, and the crux of 
the physiological argument is whether he can 
obtain these better, or at least equally well, from 
vegetable sources. The tabular statement given 
on page 8 shows that, excluding eggs, milk, and 
cheese, all of which are of animal origin, he must 
either consume such vegetable foods in very large 
quantities, or utilise only certain varieties, such as 
beans, peas, and lentils, which require a good 
deal of digestion, and are apt to pall on the 
appetite when long continued. If a more varied 
vegetarian diet is selected, it is likely to be dan- 
gerously low in proteins, and those living upon 
it, while possibly well nourished, are deficient in 
energy. 

The processes of digestion are considerably 
longer with a vegetarian diet, but given a tem- 
perament which can habituate itself to a rather 
monotonous diet and find ample leisure to make 
the best of it, a purely vegetarian diet may yield 
sufficient nourishment to maintain the body in full 
vigour. Most persons with heavy calls upon their 
energies have not time to be vegetarians, and 
flourish best upon a diet containing meat — i.e. one 
containing an abundant supply of readily digested 
protein. 

Mr. Bumble, of immortal memory, had evi- 
19 



Food and the Public Health 

dently flickerings of physiological knowledge 
when he at once ascribed the unexpected ebullition 
of physical vigour and fearlessness on the part of 
little Oliver Twist not to madness but to meat. 

"' Meat, ma'am, meat,' replied Bumble, with 
stern emphasis. ' You've over-fed him, ma'am. 
You've raised an artificial soul and spirit in him, 
ma'am, unbecoming a person of his condition : 
as the board will tell you. ... If you had kept the 
boy on gruel, ma'am, this would never have 
happened.' " 

Naturally poisonous foods. — There are a good 
many animals which produce poisonous secretions 
as part of their defence against other animals, 
or which utilise them as a means of killing 
their food. Well-known examples are the poison- 
ous snakes, some fishes such as the sea weaver, 
scorpions, and a number of insects. They 
exert their action by injecting their poisons into 
the bodies of their victims, and such poisons are 
largely without effect when introduced by the 
mouth. These animals can be eaten without risk, 
and therefore cannot be included under the above 
heading as poisonous in themselves. 

The number of animals whose flesh is definitely 
poisonous when eaten is small, and, apart from 
a few shell-fish which may be poisonous, they are 
all fishes. 

By far the most important of these fishes belong 
to one family of tropical fish called the Tetro- 

20 



Food and Disease 

dontidae. This family — the puffers, balloon fish, 
globe fish — includes a number of species of which 
the best known is the Japanese fugu. Many 
thousands of persons have been poisoned by 
eating this fish. In some cases the symptoms 
resemble those which are met with in ordinary 
attacks of food-poisoning (see p. 124), but in others 
they are much more rapid in their onset, with 
pain, collapse, and cramps, and closely resemble 
an acute attack of cholera. Death may occur in 
as short a time as twenty minutes. The poisonous 
symptoms have been shown to be due to a 
chemical body, somewhat like alkaloids such as 
strychnine or atropine, isolated from some plants. 

Most observers have drawn attention to the fact 
that the degree to which the members of this 
group of fishes are poisonous varies greatly even 
with the same species of fish. This has been 
shown to be due to the fact that the poison is 
chiefly contained in the reproductive organs (the 
roe) y and therefore their poisonous properties vary 
with the degree to which these organs are de- 
veloped (season of year, etc.), and the extent to 
which these parts are eaten. 

While all the most poisonous fishes are tropi- 
cal, some common European fishes, such as the 
barbel, sturgeon, carp, and bream, are said to 
be harmful. They are not, however, poisonous to 
any marked extent, and then only at certain 
seasons of the year. 

21 



Food and the Public Health 

That many flowering plants are poisonous is 
well known, and occasionally some of them, such 
as water hemlock for parsnips and celery, aconite 
for horse-radish, are eaten in mistake for edible 
foods. This does not often happen, and most 
cases of illness of this kind occur in children who 
have eaten poisonous berries. 

Nearly all the cases of poisoning of vegetable 
nature are from poisonous fungi eaten in mistake 
for edible mushrooms. The number of poisonous 
mushrooms is large, but only a few are liable to 
be mistaken for the edible kinds. Nearly all the 
cases of poisoning have been due to two fungi, 
the fly fungus (Amanita muscaria) and the death- 
cup fungus (Amanita phalloides). 

It is interesting to note that recent investiga- 
tions have shown that the poisons in these two 
fungi are quite different. The fly fungus contains 
a very poisonous chemical body called muscarine, 
and it is to this substance, acting with some other 
body or bodies not yet isolated, that the very fatal 
effects are due. The death-cup fungus contains 
an extremely toxic body which is not easily de- 
stroyed by heat, and which has been isolated. The 
occurrence of this heat-resisting body explains why 
this mushroom remains intensely poisonous even 
after cooking. This substance (a-toxin, as its 
discoverer calls it) is one of the most powerful 
known poisons of plant origin. 

While cases of poisoning from other kinds of 

22 



Food and Disease 

mushrooms have been recorded, the number is 
small compared with those of the two fungi men- 
tioned. 

Quite apart from the question of foods which 
are naturally poisonous or which have become in- 
fected with chemicals, animal parasites or bacteria, 
we very occasionally find that certain foods may 
cause ill-health in some individuals while eaten 
with impunity by the rest of the community. Shell- 
fish, eggs, and nuts are types of such foods. The 
fault in these cases is clearly with the individual 
and not with the food, and is usually spoken of as 
a food idiosyncrasy of the particular person. It is 
only in quite recent years that the scientific causes 
of this condition began to be understood. While 
important to the individual, these cases are but 
few in the aggregate, and are probably due to a 
special condition which allows some of the un- 
altered proteins of the food to pass unchanged 
into the blood, where they act as foreign bodies 
and give rise to the symptoms. All the foods 
of this kind which specially disagree contain 
proteins. 



23 



CHAPTER II 
Chemical Additions to Food 

In one way or another harmful chemical bodies 
may gain access to food from a number of different 
sources. They can all, however, be grouped into 
three classes. 

i. Introduced unintentionally in connection 
with processes of manufacture. 

2. Added from the action of the food upon the 
retainers in which it is put upon the market. 

3. Deliberately added to food to preserve its 
quality or enhance its appearance. 

1. Chemicals introduced unintentionally in 
manufacture. — Foodstuffs are so diverse in origin, 
varied in nature, and complicated in their methods 
of preparation that there are considerable possi- 
bilities that in one way or another many chemical 
substances may be unintentionally introduced. In 
practice, however, not a large number of poisonous 
chemicals have been detected, the most important 
being salts of arsenic, tin, copper, and lead. 

Arsenical compounds are widely diffused in 
nature, and quite minute traces are not uncommon 
in many foods and substances used for the pre- 

24 



Chemical Additions to Food 

paration of food. It was not until the extensive 
and widespread outbreak of arsenical poisoning 
in 1900 directed attention to the subject that the 
danger of arsenic in food was realised and 
adequately studied. 

This outbreak so admirably illustrates the 
dangers of chemical food contamination from 
sources not immediately associated with food 
production that it is worth while considering it in 
some detail. 

During the latter part of 1900 a very extensive 
outbreak of sickness, involving well over 6,000 
persons, with more than 70 deaths, attributable to 
poisoning by arsenic, occurred in England and 
Wales. The very careful inquiries made showed 
that the outbreak was due to beer contaminated 
with arsenic. In every case this beer was supplied 
from breweries which made use of brewing sugars 
(i.e. glucose and invert sugar) supplied from a 
single source. These sugars are extensively used 
instead of, or as additions to, the malt sugar 
obtained from grain fermentation. As much as 
y 2 to 9 grains of arsenic per pound were found 
in these different sugars. In their preparation 
sulphuric acid is used, and the arsenic was de- 
rived from the acid, which was found to be heavily 
contaminated with arsenic (from 1.4 to 2.6 per 
cent.). 

It was found that the beer as consumed con- 
tained from *4 to l grain of arsenic per gallon, 

2 5 



Food and the Public Health 

while in exceptional cases much larger amounts 
were detected. These are large quantities for this 
substance, the medicinal dose of arsenic being ^ 
to ^ grain expressed as the oxide. 

A careful study by the special Royal Com- 
mission appointed, showed that minute quantities 
of arsenic in beer might also gain access from malt- 
ing if the grain were exposed on the kiln to the 
products of combustion of fuel containing arsenical 
materials. An outbreak of arsenical poisoning at 
Halifax in 1902 was due to beer contaminated in 
this way. 

Arsenic may gain access to various foods. Thus 
it has been found in sweets when glucose con- 
taminated with arsenic was used instead of cane 
sugar. An extensive outbreak of 62 cases of 
arsenical poisoning occurred in Manchester in 1908 
from sweets contaminated in this way. 

Arsenic has been found in cheap confectionery 
derived from shellac used to coat the confectionery. 
It may be deposited on the surface of fruit treated 
with insecticides containing arsenic. Recently it 
has been found in a considerable number of samples 
of baking-powder substitute in this country. The 
substitute contained acid calcium phosphate instead 
of cream of tartar, and in this were found substan- 
tial amounts of arsenic. Here again the actual 
source of the arsenic was from sulphuric acid used 
to prepare the acid calcium phosphate. 

The insidious ways in which arsenic may obtain 
26 



Chemical Additions to Food 

access to food will perhaps be clearer from the 
following diagram : 

Materials for making sulphuric acid 
containing arsenic 

Sulphuric acid. 



Glucose. Acid calcium phosphate. 

/ \ Baking-powder substitute. 

Sweets. Beer. | 

Flour. 

Arsenic is so powerful a poison that no arsenic 
should be tolerated in food. The Royal Commis- 
sion on the subject reported they "are not prepared 
to allow that it would be right to declare that any 
quantity of arsenic, however small, is admissible 
in beer or in any food." 

Lead is another metal which is found in many 
foods and may be derived from very diverse 
sources. For example, some of the enamels used 
for glazing earthenware contain lead, and may give 
it up to the foods put into such vessels; tea is 
wrapped in lead foil, wine bottles are sometimes 
cleaned by shaking lead shot in them, soda- 
water siphons are fitted with valves containing 
lead, and cider may be heavily contaminated with 
lead from vessels used in the course of its manu- 
facture. 

27 



Food and the Public Health 

In all these ways lead may gain access to food 
and be a cause of chronic poisonirtg, but few 
definite cases from these sources have been recorded 
except from contaminated Cider. Cider, Kvhich 
contains a vegetable acid called malic acid, was at 
one time responsible for a number of cases of lead 
poisoning from being allowed to come in contact 
with lead vats during the process of manufacture. 
So prevalent was this form of lead poisoning in 
certain parts of Devonshire and adjacent areas that 
it was locally known as "Devonshire colic." This 
source of metallic poisoning has now been almost 
entirely done away with. 

Tin, apart from tinned foods, which are dis- 
cussed later on, does not occur to any material 
extent in foods. 

Copper, in poisonous quantities, only very 
rarely occurs in foods, but outbreaks have been 
reported from food contaminated with copper 
derived from cooking utensils of this metal. Under 
rare circumstances copper is found in oysters, but 
the popular impression that all "green oysters" 
are of that colour because of the presence of copper 
is incorrect. It is doubtful if poisoning ever arises 
from this source. 

2. Chemicals introduced from the action of food 
upon the retainers. — The amount of food now 
tinned is enormous. In the United States 
alone for the year 1909 it was valued at some 
^58,000,000. The foods tinned are very varied, 

28 



Chemical Additions to Food 

but are mainly meat foods, condensed milk, fish, 
shellfish, fruits, and vegetables. 

Most of these canned foods are packed in tin- 
plate receptacles owing to the convenience of this 
material in handling, sealing off, and transport. 
The only metal of any importance which may gain 
access to the food in this way is tin. 

The amount of tin found in such foods varies 
greatly, as it depends upon a number of factors of 
which the following are the most important : 

(a) The nature of the food canned. This is 
mainly a question of acidity : the higher the acidity 
the larger the quantity of tin taken up. Vegetable 
foods, for example, have a considerable natural 
acidity. 

(b) The period since canning. The longer the 
time the greater the amount of tin dissolved. 

(c) The quality of the tin-plating. When this 
is thin the acids eat through to the steel or iron 
beneath, the two metals act electrolytically, and 
the amount of tin dissolved is increased. 

(d) The solder used and the method of solder- 
ing. Tin may gain access and be dissolved from 
the solder used. 

The quantity of tinned food consumed is very 
large, while the popular idea that harm may result 
from tin contained in it is widespread, so that 
considerable attention has been given to this 
question by the authorities responsible for the 
purity of food. The Food Inspection Department 

29 



Food and the Public Health 

of the Local Government Board, for example, has 
issued a valuable Report upon the subject. 

Tin, like arsenic, is a poisonous substance, but 
with the differences that not only is it much less 
toxic but, unlike arsenic, is not cumulative in its 
action, or only very slightly so. By a cumulative 
poison is meant that the substance is deposited in 
the body and continues to exert its action over a 
period prolonged considerably beyond that of its 
ingestion. In this way quite minute doses, each 
by itself insufficient to produce symptoms, may 
exert a poisonous action through their cumulative 
effect. This applies to lead as well as to arsenic, 
but hardly at all to tin. This is one important 
reason why even very minute additions of arsenic 
to food must be regarded with great suspicion. 

Any action that tin is likely to exert will be 
through its irritating action upon the lining of the 
stomach and intestine. To exert any such action 
tin salts would have to be present in considerable 
quantities in the food. The known facts show 
clearly that such irritant action may take place, but, 
to be exerted, at least one to two grains of the tin 
salts to the pound would have to be present. To 
produce these symptoms of irritant poisoning 
canned foods would have to contain much larger 
amounts of tin than occur in such foods as supplied 
for consumption in the ordinary way. 

The expert who worked on this subject for the 
Local Government Board selected certain canned 

30 



Chemical Additions to Food 

foods between one and two years from the date of 
canning (an extreme limit for ordinary stock), 
choosing peaches, apricots and other fruit specially 
liable to act on tin. In these samples the quantity 
of tin present did not in any case exceed one grain 
to the pound of fruit, and, as the author of the 
Report states, "There seems no reason to believe 
that such large quantities of tin as two or three 
grains in the pound would in ordinary circum- 
stances be present in any of the usual canned foods 
of commerce, provided that proper care had been 
taken to avoid contamination of the contents by 
solder." 

Actual cases of reported tin poisoning from 
canned foods are very rare indeed, considering the 
quantity consumed, and when these are scientific- 
ally investigated scarcely any can be proved to be 
due to tin. Several investigators have in fact dosed 
themselves with considerable quantities of tin in 
food without any evidence of harm. The com- 
parative harmlessness of tin in canned food is 
shown also by the vast practical experiment in 
which large sections of the community forming our 
armies have been fed on canned foods over long 
periods of time without any evidence of metallic 
poisoning resulting. 

Summing up the matter, it may be said that, 
although considerable quantities of tin may be 
found in food, there is little evidence that harmful 
results have ensued, as the toxicity of this metal is 

3i 



Food and the Public Health 

not high. There is very little danger, therefore, of 
poisoning with tin from canned foods. 

In this connection, as illustrating the popular 
prejudice on the subject, it may be mentioned that 
a considerable quantity of the food sold to the 
public in glass receptacles is really tinned food 
which has been transferred before being put upon 
the market. The cost of the transfer is more than 
recouped by the greater attractiveness to the public 
of the food in glass retainers and the higher price 
obtained in consequence. 

It might be supposed that in view of this 
popular prejudice against food in metal retainers 
more of it would be put up in glass receptacles. 
Against this is the increased primary cost of glass 
vessels, the loss from breakages, the greater 
weight and cost of freightage and the much greater 
difficulty of sterilising the food. It is much easier 
to sterilise meat (for example) in cans than in glass 
containers, so that the use of the latter necessitates 
the observance of greater care and cleanliness in 
their preparation. To obviate this, chemical pre- 
servatives are often added. 

3. Chemicals deliberately added. — The prob- 
lems which arise in connection with the addition 
of preservatives to food are of the utmost practical 
importance, but are very difficult of solution. 

It is well known that foods are preserved by the 
use of chemicals to a very large extent. The food 
purist may maintain that they are not required, 

3* 



Chemical Additions to Food 

and may demand that their use or addition be en- 
tirely prohibited. A little reflection, however, will 
at once show that such a simple and uncompromis- 
ing attitude is an impossible one to take up in 
practice. 

Owing to the perishable nature of foods and 
the fact that at certain times some are plentiful 
while at others difficult to get or unobtainable, 
man throughout his historical existence has re- 
sorted to forms of food preservation. In addition, 
he has found that preservation, in some of its 
forms, materially alters the taste and quality of the 
food, and in this way he has obtained new and 
frequently more palatable types of food. Food 
preservation not only enables the food of seasons 
of plenty to be kept unimpaired against the times 
of scarcity, but it allows rapidly perishable articles 
to be transported in good condition from regions 
of origin to places of consumption. 

The earlier methods of preservation practised 
were mainly not of a chemical nature, the com- 
monest being drying or smoking. The next de- 
velopment consisted in using such simple and 
well-known chemical substances as common salt, 
sugar, and vinegar, and all these methods are 
still employed on an enormous scale. 

To these older processes sanctioned by custom 

and used for centuries without demonstrable harm 

no objection on the score of injury to health has 

been raised, nor can objection be advanced to such 

d 33 



Food and the Public Health 

simple non-chemical methods as preservation by 
heat and refrigeration. It is to the addition of 
certain more recently discovered chemical sub- 
stances, specially added as preservatives to prevent 
bacterial decomposition, that so great objection has 
been taken, and which is so much a question 
of controversy. The best-known of these preser- 
vatives are boric acid and its compounds (includ- 
ing borax), salicylic acid and its salts, sulphites, 
formaldehyde, and benzoic acid and its salts. 

There is no dispute that all these newer sub- 
stances added as preservatives are harmful to man 
in large doses, but those who justify their addition 
do so on the ground that their harmfulness in the 
small quantities in which they are added to foods 
under actual practical conditions has never been 
proved. 

The opponents of their addition to foods are 
able to adduce a number of reasons for objecting 
to their use, of which the following are the most 
importantT 

(a) That there is evidence that the preservative 
added is itself harmful to man in the amounts 
found or which may be present. 

(b) That these preservatives are added to check 
bacterial decomposition, or in popular parlance to 
prevent the food going bad. Their addition allows 
such food to be collected, prepared or stored under 
conditions which are distinctly prejudicial to 
health, such methods being practicable commer- 

34 



Chemical Additions to Food 

cially only because the added preservative prevents 
the food decomposing, which it otherwise would 
do under these unhygienic conditions. 

(c) That even if it be granted that these pre- 
servatives, in the amounts found, may not be 
harmful to ordinary healthy people, they are likely 
to be so to certain sections of the community, 
such as the delicate, the diseased, or the young. 
There is no way of shielding such susceptible 
persons from being poisoned with these chemical 
preservatives, since the law does not require either 
their presence or their amount to be disclosed. 

(d) That the fact that present knowledge may 
be insufficient to prove their harmfulness does not 
enable us to say that if they are taken in food over 
prolonged periods they may not be a cause of ill- 
health. In other words, it is a fair line of argu- 
ment to take that the addition to food of substances 
which are known poisons in large doses may exert 
a definite, if unknown, deleterious action upon the 
body when taken in small doses over long periods, 
and that the public should not be subjected to 
this risk, even if problematical, without their 
knowledge or consent. 

Of the harmfulness of these substances in large 
doses there is no doubt, and since their addition 
is often in the hands of people quite ignorant of 
the niceties of chemical dosage it frequently 
occurs that very much larger quantities are added 
than are necessary. For example, the writer once 

35 



Food and the Public Health 

found the enormous amount of 96 grains of boric 
acid per pound in brawn, and the brawn-maker's 
excuse was that as it was rather hot weather he 
took a small handful and mixed it in. He evidently 
thought it could be used like common salt. 

A great deal of scientific evidence has been 
brought forward both as to the harmfulness and 
as to the harmlessness of individual chemical 
preservatives in quite small doses, much of it 
conflicting, while a good deal is unequal in value. 

The present legal, scientific, and administrative 
positions are alike unsatisfactory. Except for pre- 
served cream, in which small declared amounts of 
boric acid are permitted, and for milk, to which 
their addition is prohibited, there are no legal 
enactments directly permitting or penalising the 
addition of chemicals to food. This presses very 
hardly upon all sections of the community. The 
general public are, all unwittingly, obliged to 
consume a considerable proportion of their food 
mixed with chemicals which may be harmful, and 
as they do not know if they are there or not they 
cannot decline to buy such food. 

The food manufacturer and the food seller do 
not know if they may or may not add these sub- 
stances, and this uncertainty may be injurious to 
their business interests, since trade rivals may 
lack their scruples, and by a plentiful use of pre- 
servatives may avoid loss from damaged goods, or 
the expense (much more costly than the addition 

36 



Chemical Additions to Food 

of preservatives) of strict cleanliness in manu- 
facture or storage. Also there is great inequality 
in different districts, some local authorities being 
very lax, others dealing actively with preservatives 
under the rather roundabout existing laws. 

Local authorities are in an even more difficult 
position, since the existing legal machinery for 
dealing with preservatives is very unsatisfactory, 
and each case may have to be fought out on 
scientific grounds in which proof has to be 
adduced of the harmfulness of the preservative 
present and in the amount found. This is a 
wasteful business, and likely to be very expensive 
to both parties. 

That this is the case will be evident from the 
two main legal sections under which prosecutions 
have to be taken. They are Sections III. and VI. 
of the Food and Drugs Act, 1875. Section III. 
provides that no article of food intended for sale 
shall be mixed, stained or coloured, or powdered, 
so as to render it injurious to health. Section VI., 
that no person shall sell to the prejudice of the, 
purchaser any article of food or any drug which is 
not of the nature, substance and quality demanded 
by such purchaser. 

Under these sections it will be noted that it 
is not expressly declared that no preservatives may 
be added, but the prosecuting authority has either 
to prove injury to health or that the added sub- 
stance is to the prejudice of the purchaser. 

37 



Food and the Public Health 

It is important to realise that the addition of 
small and defined amounts of certain preservatives 
to particular foods may be an advantage to the 
community by enabling such foods to be preserved 
and sold at cheap rates, and this advantage may 
outweigh any possible harmful action. If this be 
granted, it is very necessary that the whole ques- 
tion of the addition of chemical preservatives to 
food should be placed upon a proper scientific and 
legal footing. 

The new Ministry of Health, with its advisory 
bodies of experts, should find it perfectly feasible 
to enact suitable regulations setting out the pre- 
servatives which may be used, with the maximum 
amounts for the different foods, requiring that if 
these permitted substances are added the fact must 
be adequately set out on the label, and prohibiting 
the sale of preservatives under fancy names. The 
addition of all preservatives outside this permitted 
schedule should be completely prohibited. It is 
quite useless to say that certain specified preserva- 
tives should be prohibited, and leave the matter 
there, since the trade chemist can always be relied 
upon to find fresh ones. The attitude to be 
adopted is that of prohibiting all preservatives 
except those scheduled as permitted under defined 
conditions. 

Colouring matters. — Allied to the question of 
preservatives is that of colouring matters. Several 
generations ago a good many foods were adulter- 

38 



Chemical Additions to Food 

ated with colouring matters distinctly harmful in 
character. Examples are various salts of iron, 
red lead and chromate of lead, sulphate of mer- 
cury, coloured salts of arsenic, etc. The use of 
such deleterious substances has practically ceased, 
partly owing to a recognition of their harmfulness, 
but also because the introduction of aniline dyes 
rendered their use unnecessary. Practically all 
those added at the present day (apart from salts 
of copper) are vegetable or aniline dyes, which, 
so far as is known, are harmless. 

Annatto is the most extensively used of the 
vegetable dyes, and is still the principal substance 
used to dye butter, milk and dairy products 
generally. It is also added to margarine. Tur- 
meric is another vegetable stain sometimes em- 
ployed. There is no evidence that either of them 
is harmful. A very wide range of aniline dyes 
is used, and very many foods are so coloured. 

While these vegetable and aniline dyes are 
harmless, their addition is a waste of material, 
while in certain cases they mask the quality of the 
food and may render saleable food which otherwise 
would be rejected as of inferior quality and unfit 
for food. 

The only one of these dyes which may be 
distinctly harmful is salts of copper, added to peas 
and other vegetables to give them a good colour. 
There is still some controversy as to whether this 
addition has given rise to ill-health, but the latest 

39 



Food and the Public Health 

expert information, as contained in the special 
Report issued by the U.S. A, Board of Agricul- 
ture, is to the effect that it may do so even in 
the small amounts which may be used. Copper 
salts may also have the effect of concealing in- 
feriority, inasmuch as the bright green colour 
imparted to the vegetables simulates a state of 
freshness they may not have possessed before 
treatment. 



4^ 



CHAPTER III 

Bacterial Diseases Disseminated through 
Foods 

Most of the diseases conveyed by food are due 
to the activities of bacteria. To obtain clear ideas 
as to how these diseases are caused, it is necessary 
to understand something of the essential nature of 
bacterial infections. 

Infection is not simply a matter of the presence 
of a particular harmful germ; it is a process, and 
one of considerable complexity. To understand 
it involves consideration of the properties of the 
invading organism and of the powers of resistance 
of the individual attacked, while it is materially 
affected by such important points as the path of 
infection and the dose of the bacteria introduced. 

Bacteria. — Bacteria are extremely minute living 
forms of vegetable life of very simple struc- 
ture. The vast majority are incapable of inducing 
disease in man or animals, and live a harmless 
vegetable existence — the so-called saprophytic 
bacteria. The ability of bacteria to cause disease 
depends upon the nature of the chemical products 
they elaborate. Like all living things, they pro- 

4i 



Food and the Public Health 

duce something as a necessary accompaniment of 
their growth. These products may be simple in 
nature, such as acids, gaseous chemical bodies, 
or pigment, or more complex, though still harm- 
less. The minority produce bodies of considerable 
toxicity to animal life, and it is these which con- 
stitute the group of pathogenic or harmful bacteria. 

The requirements for growth of the ordinary 
saprophytic varieties are comparatively simple — a 
sufficiency of moisture, a temperature which often 
can vary within wide limits, and a food supply 
which contains small quantities of organic matter. 
Even the latter is not necessary for all varieties. 
Conditions such as these are almost universally 
present, so that bacteria are extremely widely dis- 
tributed in nature. 

Pathogenic bacteria. — The varieties harmful 
to man and animals are more restricted in their 
requirements. Some have become so accustomed 
to a parasitic life within the animal body that they 
cannot flourish outside it, except under the highly 
selected and artificial conditions provided by the 
bacteriologist in his laboratory. If they do get 
into the outer world they may survive for a short 
period — often to be measured only in hours or less 
—and then die. Examples of this type are the 
bacteria of influenza and cerebro-spinal fever, and 
their highly specialised requirements explain why 
such diseases are never spread by food, since if 
they did gain access (for example, by a sufferer 

42 



Bacterial Infection 

sneezing over meat or milk) they would so quickly 
die that infection is but a remote possibility. 
Others of the pathogenic bacteria are more tolerant 
in their requirements, and while they flourish best 
within the animal body, they can live outside it 
for considerable periods, and often markedly in- 
crease in numbers under saprophytic conditions. 

Harmful organisms of this type, which includes 
the typhoid bacillus (the cause of typhoid fever), 
the organism of cholera, and Bacillus enteritidis 
(a common cause of food-poisoning outbreaks) are 
a much greater menace to health, since they can 
also be distributed by these indirect methods. 

Obviously much will depend upon the kind of 
material into which such bacteria are introduced 
when shed into the outer world. If they gain 
access to a foodstuff upon which they can not only 
survive but multiply, they are more likely to cause 
widespread outbreaks than when introduced into 
a medium such as water, in which they merely 
survive for a comparatively short period. 

Pure saprophytes introduced into the animal 
body die out more or less rapidly. While in their 
extremes there is a sharp difference between the 
pathogenic and the true saprophytic types, there 
are all gradations between, and there are patho- 
genic varieties which can adapt themselves to and 
persist in a saprophytic life, and saprophytes 
which can accustom themselves to living in- 
definitely in the animal body. 

43 



Food and the Public Health 

We have also to recognise that bacteria breed 
true, like producing like, and while no doubt in 
the remote past the pathogenic types have origi- 
nated from the saprophytes, there is no evidence 
to warrant the assumption that any particular 
harmful strain we may encounter has bred from 
other than the same pathogenic stock. 

Even, however, with the same strain, exposed 
to different conditions, considerable variations as 
regards the toxicity of its products, or degree of 
virulence, as it is called scientifically, are met with, 
and this is an important factor in determining 
whether infection takes place. 

An important feature of bacteria is their rate 
of growth. The ordinary method of increase is 
by a process of simple fission of the parent cell 
into two, and as this can occur under favourable 
circumstances after as short a period as half an 
hour with many Varieties, their rate of increase 
is enormous. A simple calculation will show that 
theoretically, if this rate of increase could be main- 
tained, a single bacterium at the end of twelve 
hours would produce 16,800,000 descendants. 
Under actual conditions this fabulous rate of in- 
crease is sharply checked by the fact that the 
products of its own growth are harmful to the 
organism and in time check its multiplication. 

A further point of importance is the resistant 
powers of bacteria to adverse conditions. Certain 
varieties produce spores, which are very much 

44 



Bacterial Infection 

more resistant than the parent cell. All the spore- 
bearing types, of which the bacilli of tetanus and 
anthrax are good examples, are highly resistant. 
A few organisms possess added powers of resist- 
ance owing to the nature of their outer walls or en- 
velopes, and of these the bacillus which causes 
tuberculosis is the most important. Its fatty en- 
velope enables it to withstand dryness and heat 
considerably better than the ordinary non-sporing 
types. 

In general the conditions most unfavourable to 
bacteria are light, especially sunlight, dryness, and 
temperatures above 45 C. 

Susceptibility to bacterial invasion. — Equally 
involved in the process of disease production 
are a number of factors which concern the 
animal body (man or animal) invaded. As is 
well known, all persons are not equally susceptible 
to disease. Some possess a natural resistance; in 
others resistance has to be acquired. For example, 
certain diseases in animals, such as swine fever 
or dog distemper, are unknown in man, while 
diseases like typhoid fever or cholera are not met 
with in the lower animals. Man or animals re- 
spectively are unsusceptible to these diseases, and 
such a condition is known as natural immunity. 

It is also well known that after an attack of 
certain diseases (smallpox for example), persons, 
although they may be subsequently exposed to 
infection, never, or very rarely, contract that 

45 



Food and the Public Health 

disease again. In other words they have acquired 
immunity against that disease. An immunity of 
this kind is special, or specific, as it is usually 
called ; that is, it protects only against a particular 
disease. Such acquired immunity can be produced 
by artificial methods, an excellent example being 
the immunity against typhoid fever obtained by the 
inoculation of our soldiers with typhoid vaccine. 

The causes of immunity, natural and acquired, 
are complex and cannot be discussed here,* but 
their existence shows how very complicated are 
the problems of bacterial disease. We can best 
represent the matter as a battle in which the pros- 
pects of success of the invading organisms are 
affected on the one hand by their numbers, their 
virulence and the toxicity of the chemical products 
of their growth, and on the other by the powers 
of resistance possessed by the individual invaded, 
which may be only the natural defensive 
mechanism possessed by all animals (including 
man), or may be this mechanism fortified by the 
effects of a previous attack of the same disease, or 
by an artificially induced immunity. If the in- 
vading bacteria succeed in their attack they estab- 
lish themselves, infection results, and the special 
disease which they cause develops. If the powers 
of resistance are sufficient nothing happens; the 
invader is repelled. 

See Chapter IX. in "The Story of English Public Health," 
by Sir Malcolm Morris. 1919. 

46 



Bacterial Infection 

Dosage of infection. — With this conception 
clearly established, the great importance of ques- 
tions of dosage, paths of infection and natural resist- 
ance take on their true significance. It is obvious 
that if the attacking organisms are few in number 
they are likely to be killed by the defensive powers 
opposed to them before they can establish them- 
selves, whereas if they are introduced upon such 
substances as meat or in milk, in which they can 
grow, they may have multiplied sufficiently to 
enable a certain proportion of them to survive the 
battle and entrench themselves. 

Path of infection. — Again, the path of infection 
is important. Introduced by the mouth, the bac- 
teria cannot, as a rule, establish themselves until 
they have travelled along into the lower part of 
the intestine, whence they are absorbed into the 
blood stream. To get so far they have to run the 
gauntlet of the digestive juices — salivary, gastric 
and pancreatic — all of which are inimical, in greater 
or less degree, to bacteria. Introduced in small 
numbers by the mouth, their likelihood of survival 
may be small, but their chances are directly in- 
creased in proportion to the number of bacteria so 
introduced, qualified by the powers of resistance of 
the particular strain. In illustration of this last 
point it may be said that the more resistant tubercle 
bacillus would have a greater chance of survival 
than an equal number of the less resistant typhoid 
bacillus. 

47 



Food and the Public Health 

The same bacilli introduced under the skin or 
by way of the air passages would be much more 
likely to escape the destructive influences lying in 
wait for them and so cause infection. 

The vehicle of infection of the bacteria may play 
a part in another direction, as the food in some 
cases helps to protect the bacilli until they can 
establish themselves, either mechanically by pro- 
viding a protecting medium, or chemically by 
neutralising or rendering less harmful the digestive 
juices. 

A further aspect of the subject remains to be 
considered, i.e. the precise ways by which the 
bacteria capable of setting up human disease are 
conveyed through food. When the food is derived 
from an animal affected with the same disease (for 
example, tuberculosis) nothing further has to be 
explained, since the source of the pathogenic 
bacteria is clear. When, however, the food is of 
healthy origin, or not derived from animals at all, 
it is obvious that we have to ascertain how such 
food comes to be contaminated with these harmful 
bacteria. 

Carriers of infection. — Of all such sources, 
the most important is man himself. In a case 
of infectious disease due to bacteria, if recovery 
takes place there occurs during its course a gradual 
mastery by the defensive powers of the body over 
the offensive properties of the invader, and recovery 
is marked by a reduction to impotence for that 

4 8 



Bacterial Infection 

individual of the powers for evil of the invading 
organism. In the majority of cases the bacteria 
are killed out, but in a minority they persist, some- 
times for long periods. They cannot injure the 
person in whom they persist, since the defensive 
mechanism (immunity) is sufficiently developed to 
prevent it, but they have lost none of their virulence 
for other persons. If the sites where they survive 
communicate with the exterior, for example, if 
they persist in the nose, throat or intestinal canal, 
the excretions from these organs will contain the 
bacteria, often in large numbers, and as they 
can infect other persons they constitute a grave 
menace and source of infection. Such carrier cases 
are particularly prevalent in typhoid fever and 
diphtheria, but they occur with a number of other 
bacterial diseases. The bacilli may persist in this 
actively virulent condition, unsuspected by the in- 
dividual, for periods which may be measured by 
months, weeks, or even years. For example, in 
diphtheria it is found that in 30 per cent, of the 
cases the bacillus disappears in about three weeks 
from the onset, in 40 per cent, in four weeks, 
in nearly 70 per cent, in five weeks, and in about 
80 per cent, in seven weeks, while in the remaining 
20 per cent, it may persist for many months. In 
typhoid fever the bacilli readily survive for years 
in a- proportion of cases. 

There is another group of carrier cases which 
arises in a different way. Some individuals, more 

e 49 



Food and the Public Health 

fortunate than most of us, do not need when in- 
fected to battle first with the invading germ and 
then after desperate strife to develop an acquired 
immunity, but possess in themselves a sufficiency 
of these immunity products to prevent the develop- 
ment of the disease. The germ invades but does 
not infect, yet may remain in the body. In this 
case we get" what is called a passive carrier. In 
diphtheria such passive carriers are very numer- 
ous, but they are infrequent for typhoid fever. 

Intermediate between the two are many cases 
in which the immunity powers are so considerable 
that while infection occurs its manifestations 
(symptoms) are so slight and evanescent that they 
frequently escape notice. In a proportion of these 
slight unrecognised cases the bacilli persist, and 
while scientifically they really belong to the first 
group of carriers, they appear to belong to the 
second. 

These germ carriers are particularly dangerous 
when they are brought into contact with food, and 
in this way they have caused a large number of 
outbreaks, especially of typhoid fever. 

The career of the famous " Typhoid Mary " 
is a very good example. This woman was a cook, 
and was responsible for no fewer than twenty-six 
cases in seven different families. The final out- 
break, which led to the recognition of her baneful 
influence, was in 1907, when two cases of typhoid 
fever occurred in the family in whose service she 

5° 



Bacterial Infection 

was, two months after her arrival. Gaps in her 
history could not be traced, but it was established 
that the following cases had occurred in places 
where she had worked as a cook, viz. one case 
in 1901, one case in another family in 1901, nine 
cases in 1902 in another family, four in 1904 in 
a different family, six in one family in the summer 
of 1906, and one in yet another family in the 
autumn of the same year. 

Nothing is clearer, from a study of different 
outbreaks, than the fact that all carriers must be 
kept from handling food. Their danger to the 
community is in direct proportion to their ability 
to infect food, and is multiplied greatly if they 
are of careless and dirty habits. 

Far too little care is taken to exercise super- 
vision over all persons who handle food. There 
is some legislative provision governing places 
where food is prepared, but none or practically 
none of any importance requiring supervision over 
persons, by far the more important of the two. 
The Department of Health of New York City 
made a start in such work by inaugurating, in 
1 9 15, detailed medical and pathological examina- 
tions of the cooks and waiters in a number of the 
hotels and restaurants of the city. Ten chronic 
typhoid bacillus carriers, and a considerable 
number of persons infective from syphilis, tuber- 
culosis, etc., were detected. 

While emphasis has been laid upon carrier 

S 1 



Food and the Public Health 

cases, it must not be lost sight of that in many 
instances food is infected through definite cases 
of infectious disease, including unrecognised cases, 
the patients having handled the food while still 
infectious. In some of these cases the path of 
infection is indirect, through intermediaries such 
as clothing or infected water. Examples are given 
in the following chapters. In a number of the 
cases the actual channel of infection cannot be 
traced. No doubt in many such instances the 
bacilli are conveyed by flies or in dust. 

Flies and food contamination. — Many of the 
blood-sucking flies directly carry infection from 
case to case, but the ordinary flies of this country 
are non-blood-sucking insects and convey infection 
indirectly. 

There are many varieties of these flies, but 
their habits are rather similar, and all may be 
indirect carriers of infection. The following par- 
ticulars apply more especially to Musca domestica, 
the common house-fly. It breeds mainly in horse 
manure, other forms of excreta, and in refuse of 
all sorts. In houses it is attracted by and favours 
food of all kinds, and may be found in very large 
numbers on such food. Structurally it is peculiarly 
well adapted to carry bacteria and other matters, 
and when examined its hairy limbs and body are 
found to be crowded with bacteria, which can be 
readily brushed off on to any food or other surface 
it walks over. In addition it feeds on excreta] 

5« 




Yard of refuse destructor. Flies caught in an adjacent 
office carried some five hundred million bacteria each. 




Flies from this shop, situated in a congested area of a 
large city, were heavily laden with bacteria. 

(By courtesy of Dr. Hope.) 

Plate II. 



Bacterial Infection 

matters, and so takes vast numbers of bacteria 
into its digestive canal, where they survive for 
some time and are distributed on to food from 
its excreta and vomit — for it is a constant habit 
of flies to vomit. It forms, therefore, a connecting 
link between filth materials and food, acting as a 
passive carrier of the material from the former 
to the latter, (Plate II.) 

The bacteriologist has not only been able to 
show that large number of bacteria are entangled 
in the hairs of the body and limbs of flies, and 
are contained in their excretions and vomit, but 
has experimentally demonstrated that flies can be 
infected readily with harmful bacteria, such as the 
bacilli of typhoid fever or tuberculosis, if fed on 
contaminated material containing these organisms, 
and can then carry such bacteria to food and de- 
posit them upon it. 

In only a few instances has it been possible 
actually to isolate such harmful bacteria from 
ordinary flies, even in epidemic times, but this is 
due to the great difficulty of the isolation and the 
small proportion of flies likely to be infected at 
the time of the examination. 

In many outbreaks of dysentery, typhoid fever, 
cholera and other filth-borne disease the close 
association of the cases with abundance of flies 
and heavy food contamination from that source 
has been very striking. 

There is therefore strong justification for 
53 



Food and the Public Health 

accepting flies as important carriers of the infecting 
agent in this group of diseases, and for taking- 
steps to prevent infection by their means. Such 
measures run along three lines — war on the adult 
fly (the least successful), prevention of the breed- 
ing of flies by adequately dealing with all fly- 
breeding material (house refuse, horse manure, 
human excretions, etc.) in such a way that flies 
cannot get at it, and protection of food by pro- 
viding and using fly-proof coverings. 

Dust and food contamination. — Another vehicle 
of infection is dust. This may be mechanically 
harmful from solid particles contained in it, 
but its properties as a conveyer of infection will 
depend upon the bacteria in it. The number of 
micro-organisms present in dust will vary with 
its source. Ordinary town dust contains on an 
average about 40,000,000 organisms per gramme 
(i.e. more than one hundred millions in each tea- 
spoonful). While, fortunately, the majority are 
of harmless types, a certain number of harmful 
bacteria may be present. A good many of the 
pathogenic bacteria will survive in dry dust for 
some time; they then gradually die. Some, such 
as the tubercle bacillus, or sporing forms like the 
bacillus of anthrax, will live for months ; for others, 
such as the organisms of typhoid fever, dysentery 
or diphtheria, their life is spanned by a few weeks ; 
while others, like the organisms of influenza and 
cerebro-spinal meningitis, measure their life in 

54 



Bacterial Infection 

hours. If such infective dust is blown over food 
it may infect it and spread the disease, although 
dust is probably not a frequent cause of infection 
compared with other methods of spread. 

It is obvious to even the most superficial 
observer that there is much gross neglect in this 
country to protect food from flies and from dust, 
and no doubt a material amount of untraced in- 
fection results from these methods of conveying 
disease organisms to milk, meat and other kinds 
of food. 

It will be convenient to discuss here some 
general methods of food preparation and preserva- 
tion, since these really depend, in their scientific 
aspects, upon the properties of bacteria. The form 
of preparation which will first be considered is the 
cooking of food. 

The cook as sanitary officer It is inter- 
esting to speculate upon the stages which marked 
the progress of prehistoric man towards higher 
standards of sanitation. In spite of some evils 
which have accompanied them, the introduction of 
methods of preserving food is undoubtedly a land- 
mark of progress. Another, unassociated with 
any corresponding defects, is the introduction 
of the cooking of food. No doubt originally in- 
stituted to increase its digestibility and palata- 
bility, it also ranks as one of the most important 
of sanitary measures. It is obvious that all the 
foods consumed raw or imperfectly cooked — milk, 

55 



Food and the Public Health 

oysters, etc. — are much more likely to convey 
bacterial or parasitic diseases than cooked foods. 
The cook is an invaluable sanitary officer. 

The amount of protection from such diseases 
which is obtained by cooking is much greater 
than is generally realised. For example, diseases 
spread by milk are far commoner in this country 
of raw-milk drinkers than on the Continent, where 
milk for the most part is boiled, while certain 
bacterial and parasitic diseases are decidely more 
prevalent in parts of Germany where raw or but 
lightly cooked meat is frequently consumed than 
in England. 

Almost all the bacteria which can convey in- 
fection through food are easily destroyed by heat, 
a temperature of 6o° C. (140 Fahr.) being fatal 
for all except the sporing forms and a few more 
resistant types, such as the tubercle bacillus, which 
may require a temperature a few degrees higher 
to destroy them. 

Animal parasites are also killed at fairly low 
temperatures, since tapeworm larva? die at 52 C, 
and encysted trichina? (see Chapter VI.) at about 
65° C. 

There is so much dirty handling of milk, meat, 
prepared meat foods and foodstuffs generally, and 
the risks of infection from different sources are so 
considerable that everyone acquainted with things 
as they are and not as they ought to be acquires a 
violent prejudice in favour of well-cooked food. 

56 



Bacterial Infection 

At the same time it is essential to realise that 
the temperatures named must reach the bacterium 
or parasite to destroy it, and the temperature on the 
surface of the food may be very different from that 
of the interior. Meat, for example, is a poor con- 
ductor of heat, and the temperature reached at 
the centre of a joint is frequently far lower than 
the inexperienced would imagine. With a large 
piece of meat the temperature of the centre may 
not be higher than 70 C, or even 6o° C, although 
apparently well cooked. With large hams (10 lb.) 
placed in water which is then heated, the water 
may boil vigorously while the interior of the ham 
may be under 40 C, even after half an hour's 
boiling. Heat takes a long time to penetrate to 
the interior of meat, and as Petri showed, with 
large pieces, even after three and a half hours' 
cooking, the temperature of the interior may be 
only 84 C. or less. 

The same thing has been shown with meat pies. 
In the Derby food poisoning outbreak from in- 
fected meat pies it was proved that the temperature 
of the centre of a pie, having all the external 
appearances of being well baked, may not exceed 
47 C. A batch of pies prepared in a hurry might 
be so cooked that bacteria might continue to grow 
in their centre during the greater part of their stay 
in the oven. 

The presence of typhoid bacilli in apparently 
well cooked spaghetti has been demonstrated, and 

57 



Food and the Public Health 

such food, after cooking, served at a public dinner, 
caused an outbreak of 93 cases of typhoid fever. 

The different methods of food preservation 
which have been introduced, and which are now 
so considerable a feature of our economic life, 
have as their primary object the prevention of 
the development of bacteria, so that the food may 
be kept for long periods without deterioration. 

The addition of chemicals for this purpose has 
been dealt with in Chapter II. The use of cold, 
heat, drying, etc., may be conveniently considered 
here, as they all depend on their effect upon bac- 
teria under these conditions. 

Cold storage. — Bacteria, for the most part, are 
not readily killed by the application of cold, even 
when the temperatures used are a long way below 
the freezing-point of water. On the other hand, 
they do not multiply at these low temperatures, 
although there are a few harmless kinds which 
continue to grow slowly. The harmful bacteria, 
while not killed at once, gradually diminish, and 
after a shorter or longer period die out. 

While, therefore, prolonged cold storage may 
be looked upon as an agency for eliminating or 
at least reducing the numbers of harmful bacteria, 
it is both safer and more scientifically accurate 
to regard it as a measure for keeping food in 
much the same condition, as regards the number 
of bacteria in it, as when instituted. This point is 
important, since it implies the need for cleanliness 

58 



Bacterial Infection 

and care in the preparation of the food before 
refrigeration . 

The efficiency of cold storage depends upon 
the temperature maintained, the time of storage, 
and the nature of the food refrigerated. The 
temperatures reached may range from several 
degrees below freezing to a few above it; storage 
may last for periods measured in days or ex- 
tending to months; some foods can be kept 
refrigerated without deterioration much better than 
others. 

The most important food preserved by cold is 
meat, and this is done in two ways, i.e. by storage 
above freezing-point (chilled meat) and by storage 
at temperatures such as -4 C. to -io° C. (frozen 
meat). When meat is to be chilled it is placed in a 
cold chamber about 2 above freezing and compara- 
tively slowly reduced to this temperature, the pro- 
cess taking about two days. It is then stored at a 
temperature of i°-2° above o° C. Under these con- 
ditions certain changes continue, due to enzymes 
present and slow bacterial action. These are of the 
nature of ripening, and are said to improve the 
flavour of the meat if not carried too far. 

With frozen meat the carcasses are rapidly chilled 
at a temperature of about -20 C, when the meat 
becomes frozen solid. It is then kept at a tem- 
perature at least 4 below freezing-point (Centi- 
grade). Frozen meat requires great care in the 
subsequent thawing, as only if this is done slowly 

59 



Food and the Public Health 

does an approximation to the original condition 
take place. On the other hand, if the warming 
process is prolonged there is more opportunity for 
bacterial decomposition, and the diffusion currents 
which are set up in the warming may carry such 
bacteria in towards the interior of the mass. Such 
meat, when thawed, is softer and moister than in 
the fresh condition, and both chilled and frozen 
meat deteriorate more rapidly than the same food 
when fresh. 

Fish and poultry are also preserved by cold to 
a large extent, both being subject to rapid decom- 
position. They are stored frozen and not chilled, 
and it is important to get them into the frozen 
condition without delay. Both kinds of food 
deteriorate rapidly after being thawed. 

Eggs are preserved by cold storage, and this 
practice is increasing, so that this branch of food 
preservation is now of considerable importance. 
Great care is necessary to keep both the temperature 
constant (usually at, or just above, the freezing- 
point) and the percentage of moisture in the air 
suitable. It is very necessary that the eggs should 
be fresh and in good condition before being frozen, 
and bacteriological examinations show that there is 
a direct relationship between this factor and the 
number of bacteria present. 

Butter can be preserved by refrigeration (chill- 
ing) for long periods, and as a rule there is no in- 
crease in the number of bacteria, nor do changes in 

60 



Bacterial Infection 

the chemical composition result, apart from a slow 
increase in acidity which is unimportant. 

Other foods are preserved by cold storage, but 
the above are the most important. 

Summing up the matter, it may be said that 
from the hygienic point of view the utilisation of 
cold is by far the best method available for the 
preservation of food. This method has the great 
advantage that it adds nothing and removes nothing 
from the food as regards taste, palatability, nutri- 
tive qualities or digestibility. As mentioned, its 
chief drawback is that meat and certain other foods, 
when removed from cold storage, deteriorate more 
rapidly than quite fresh food. 

Drying of foods. — In preservation by drying, 
the heat of the sun or artificial heat is used, the 
aim being to reduce the water in the food below the 
minimum required for the multiplication of bacteria. 
As already explained, a certain degree of moisture 
is necessary for the growth of bacteria, and if the 
water is reduced below this amount the food ceases 
to be a nutrient material, and bacteria which may 
gain access will not grow. Such dried foods in- 
clude meat and meat products, vegetables and 
fruits, and bodies composed mainly of carbo- 
hydrates. Biltong and pemmican are examples of 
dried meat; many fruits and vegetables are now 
preserved and sold in a dried condition ; while 
biscuits and macaroni are dried foods mainly 
carbohydrate in nature. 

61 



Food and the Public Health 

For easily injured food the heat can be reduced 
and a comparatively low temperature employed by 
drying in a partial vacuum. The ordinary dried 
milk of commerce is largely prepared in this way. 

Preservation by smoking is allied to drying, 
but in addition to the abstraction of water, pre- 
servation is also in part assured by the absorption 
of certain chemical bodies, antiseptic in nature, 
such as creosote, from the smoke. Fish and some 
kinds of meat are frequently preserved in this way. 

Preservation by such well-known methods as 
the addition of sugar and salt is partially due to the 
chemical action of these substances preventing the 
growth of bacteria and partly to their withdrawing 
water from the food itself. 

Canning. — The preservation of food of all 
kinds in hermetically sealed receptacles (metal or 
glass) has attained such considerable commercial 
importance and such food now constitutes so large 
a proportion of that consumed by the community 
that it merits some detailed consideration. 

The preservation of food in this way dates 
from about 1810, but its extensive develop- 
ment has only taken place during the last 
two or three decades. The magnitude of the 
industry will be realised from the following 
figures, dealing only with the United States. 
In the year 1917 the amounts canned were — vege- 
tables 58,738,330 cases, fish 14,456,180 cases, fruit 
15,241,850 cases. The average case holds two 

63 



Bacterial Infection 

dozen cans. In addition, vast quantities of meat 
and milk are canned, the figures for 1909, in the 
United States alone, being 121,376,000 lb. of meat 
and 494,796,000 lb. of condensed milk. 

The principles of preservation are much the 
same for all canned foods, but the details vary 
with each kind, while different methods are some- 
times employed for the same foodstuff. The object 
aimed at is to subject the substance canned to a 
degree of heat which will destroy any contained 
bacteria without damaging the appearance or nutri- 
tive quality of the food. The heating is done either 
after the food has been sealed up in the containers 
or after partial sealing, when further contamina- 
tion can be prevented. 

Canned meat will serve as an illustration of the 
methods which are employed. As practised under the 
best conditions, the meat is obtained from selected 
lean (excess of fat being a great disadvantage) 
animals killed under carefully supervised sanitary 
conditions. The parts of the animals suitable are 
removed and cured in a pickle consisting of salt, 
nitre and water. After curing, the meat is forked 
out and transferred to a separate room where it 
is cooked in large vats. It is then trimmed, bone, 
gristle, etc., removed, cut up into pieces of suitable 
size, and pressed into the cans by means of special 
stuffing machines. The cans are next placed in a 
vacuum sealing machine which, when full, is 
closed and the air exhausted from the interior and 

63 



Food and the Public Health 

from the cans. When a sufficient vacuum has 
been obtained the cans are soldered down in the 
exhaust receptacle. After they have been sealed 
the machine is opened and the cans removed. 
They are then placed in retorts and " processed," 
i.e. heated to a temperature well above that of 
boiling water and for a definite period. The exact 
temperature and time vary in different factories, 
and also with the size of the tin. The subsequent 
processes consist of inspection to detect leaks, 
washing the cans to remove fat, painting and 
labelling. 

Fish, such as sardines, herrings and salmon, 
are canned by somewhat similar methods, but con- 
siderable variations are met with in different can- 
ning establishments. In some the temperature of 
boiling water only is relied upon, and there is no 
processing at a high temperature. Other marine 
products extensively canned are oysters, lobsters 
and crabs. 

Fruits are the easiest articles to can, as subject- 
ing them to the temperature of boiling water for a 
short time is usually sufficient to ensure sterilisa- 
tion. There is, however, with acid fruits, as com- 
pared with other canned articles, much greater risk 
of tin being dissolved, and frequently the inside 
of the tin is coated with a lacquer to prevent the 
acid from acting upon it. 

Vegetables require a good deal more cooking 
than fruit, both a longer time and a higher tempera- 

64 



Bacterial Infection 

ture being employed. As a rule the tins are ex- 
hausted before processing, and in nearly all cases 
a preliminary blanching in hot water is given. 

Condensed milk is separately considered in 
Chapter V. 

In domestic preservation, chiefly employed for 
vegetables and fruits, the sterilisation is generally 
done in the jars after they are partially sealed, the 
temperature of boiling water (ioo° C.) only being 
employed. If this is done on three successive days 
it may be very efficient, thus following the pro- 
cedure employed in bacteriological laboratories, 
but this is impracticable when the canning done is 
extensive, and a single sterilisation is usually relied 
upon. 

A certain proportion of canned foods go bad 
in the receptacles from the development of bacteria. 
There are two common sources of spoliation . One 
is due to inadequate sterilisation, bacteria remain- 
ing alive ; the other is due to bacteria gaining access 
from outside by means of minute leaks in the tins 
through the seams, solder hole, etc. The former 
chiefly occurs with foods canned in the home, the 
latter is the main source of infection with commer- 
cially prepared material. 

Just as with ordinary fresh foods, care and 
cleanliness in preparation and the employment of 
foods which are in a fresh condition and free from 
disease are primary essentials. It is probably 
easier to mask these defects in canned than in fresh 

F 65 



Food and the Public Health 

food. There is no scientific basis for considering 
properly prepared canned foods as either less nutri- 
tive or more liable to be harmful than the corre- 
sponding fresh foods, provided they do not form 
too large a proportion of the diet. The vitamines 
have been destroyed and these must be supplied 
from other sources. Canned foods have the material 
advantage that their cooking protects them against 
being the vehicle of diffusion for animal parasites 
and many bacterial diseases. 



66 



CHAPTER IV 
Alcoholic and Other Beverages 

Wines, Beers and Spirits 

The various forms of alcoholic drinks have played 
so large a part in relation to the health of the com- 
munity that no treatise on food and health would 
be complete without some detailed consideration of 
these beverages. They can conveniently be classed 
into three main groups — wines, beers and spirits. 
All the varieties contain alcohol, which in every 
case is derived from chemical changes resulting 
from the action of certain lowly forms of vegetable 
life upon sugars of various kinds. 

The frescoes on the ancient temples of Egypt 
reveal that the brewing of beer was an important 
and skilled industry in ancient Egypt many thou- 
sands of years ago, and indeed Herodotus ascribes 
its discovery to Isis. Ancient literature is full of 
allusions to alcoholic fermented liquors, while a 
good many of the legislative enactments of the 
Middle Ages are concerned with fraudulent prac- 
tices in connection with such beverages and the 
means for their repression. 

6 7 



Food and the Public Health 

One of the earliest instances observed of 
chemical activity was the fact that solutions con- 
taining sugar, when exposed to the air, are liable 
to undergo considerable changes, resulting in the 
production of bodies containing new and striking 
properties when consumed. We now know that 
the primary change is a breaking down of sugar 
(of which chemically there are many kinds) into 
products of which ordinary alcohol and carbonic 
acid gas are the most conspicuous, and that these 
changes are due to the activities of yeasts. All the 
different kinds of sugar can be so acted upon, while 
there is a very large number of different kinds of 
yeasts, making the whole subject in its scientific 
aspects one of considerable complexity. Only a 
few of the salient points can be touched upon here. 

Wines. — These are beverages in which the 
primary change is the alcoholic fermentation of the 
sugar naturally present in grapes. The grape 
juice, technically known as must, is chemically 
complicated, but contains a good deal of sugar, 
usually from 10 to 12 per cent., but no alcohol. 
The yeasts are naturally present upon the grapes, 
and are especially abundant when the grapes are 
fully ripe. The true wine yeast is called Saccha- 
romyces ellipsoideus, but other yeasts are often 
present. 

The crushed grapes are acted upon by these 
yeasts in fermentation vats, the naturally present 
yeasts being relied upon, but sometimes yeasts are 

68 



Beverages 

artificially added in the form of so-called "starters." 
The processes of fermentation will stop naturally 
when about 12 per cent, of alcohol has been pro- 
duced, owing to alcohol in this strength inhibiting 
the further action of the yeasts. 

In actual wine production numerous precautions 
have to be taken to prevent bacteria and wild yeasts 
from acting upon the wine juice and so producing 
unwelcome products, to see that a suitable tempera- 
ture is maintained and that abundant air is present. 
In addition, various processes of the nature of 
refining have to be resorted to, while the wine has 
to be ripened. With dry wines, practically all the 
sugar is removed by fermentation, while with sweet 
wines enough sugar is left (or is subsequently 
added) to be perceptible to taste. 

The final result is a liquid which contains the 
ordinary variety of alcohol (ethyl alcohol) up to 
10 per cent, or less, a little sugar or none, accord- 
ing to the type of wine, and a very large variety 
of other bodies in small amount, such as other 
types of alcohol, various organic acids, and small 
quantities of carbohydrates. 

Fortified wines are those in which alcohol, as 
distilled spirit, has been added in addition, sherry 
and port being the two best-known examples. 

Malt liquors. — These include beer, ale and 
stout, and are obtained by the alcoholic fermenta- 
tion of grain of various kinds, admixed with various 
flavouring and other substances. 

69 



Food and the Public Health 

Grain does not contain sugar, and the prelimin- 
ary process is one of malting, in which part of the 
starch in the barley is converted into sugar, the 
ferment diastase in the germinating grain being 
utilised to perform this conversion. The process 
is stopped by boiling when carried far enough, 
hops being added at this stage. The conversion of 
the sugar in this liquid, or wort as it is called, is 
effected by a variety of yeasts. These, and also 
the temperature employed, largely determine the 
type of beer and the amount of alcohol present. 
The lager and other light German beers are pro- 
duced by fermentation at a low temperature, and 
contain more sugar and carbonic acid but less 
alcohol than the beers mainly brewed in England 
at a higher temperature. 

Beers (under normal conditions) contain about 
3 to 6 per cent, of alcohol and also a little sugar, 
vegetable acids and various extractives. 

Spirits. — In these beverages the alcohol and 
other volatile matters are obtained by the distilla- 
tion of the products of the fermentation of bodies 
containing sugar, either as a natural constituent or 
derived from the conversion of some pre-existing 
starchy substance. Brandy is derived (at least in 
theory) entirely from the distillation of the alcohol 
from fermented grapes — i.e. is a distilled wine; 
whisky from the alcoholic fermentation of malt or 
malt and grain — i.e. is a distilled beer; rum from 
fermented molasses obtained in the manufacture of 

70 



Beverages 

raw sugar or from direct fermentation of the juice 
of the sugar cane; gin from fermented rye and 
malt, flavoured. They all contain a high propor- 
tion of alcohol (40 to 60 per cent.) and a number 
of extractives of various kinds, which give the dis- 
tinctive flavour. They all improve materially as 
regards the latter points by being matured over a 
number of years. 

Properties of alcoholic beverages. — From the 
point of view of the relation to health of alcoholic 
beverages, we must consider their properties as 
foods or as food adjuvants, the action of alcohol as 
a drug, and the broader question of their relation 
to health in connection with economic questions. 

In considering their properties as foods we have 
to discriminate between the action of alcohol as 
such and the value of the other constituents con- 
tained in these beverages. 

The chemical substance alcohol is undoubtedly 
a food, since it is burnt up in the tissues, and so 
supplies heat and energy, primary properties of 
food. Unlike most foods, it is absorbed unchanged 
into the blood — i.e. as alcohol itself, while it can- 
not be stored up in the tissues until it is wanted, 
like many other foods. Although it is burnt up 
rather rapidly in the tissues, yet this takes time, so 
that if new doses enter into the circulation before 
the previous ones have been destroyed the tissues 
are but seldom free from its presence and we find 
it acting as a poison. 

7» 



Food and the Public Health 

As a food, its essential characters are its rapid 
absorption and the fact that such absorption is 
complete and unchanged, no preliminary digestion 
being required. 

A further point limiting its utility as a food is 
the fact that as a drug it dilates the blood-vessels 
of the skin, causing a flush of blood to the surface, 
resulting in considerably increased loss of heat from 
the surface of the body, a loss which may more 
than counterbalance any gain of heat from the 
combustion of the alcohol itself. 

While, therefore, we cannot but regard alcohol 
as such as a food, these facts severely limit its 
utility and make it quite unsuitable as a routine 
food to aid muscular or any other form of work. 
On the other hand, it has value as a food in 
certain emergency conditions when a substance is 
required which quickly yields up its heat-generat- 
ing power. 

As regards substances other than alcohol pre- 
sent in alcoholic beverages, it cannot be scientific- 
ally advanced that they have any material import- 
ance as sources of food. They are present in far 
too small quantities to furnish any considerable 
amount of nutritive material. The idea that beer, 
stout, wine or other forms of alcoholic liquors are 
valuable foods and useful as such to the body is a 
popular conception, but it rests upon no scientific 
foundation. The food value of the alcohol and of 
the other constituents in a pint of beer is only 

72 



Beverages 

about equal to that in three ounces of sugar, and 
it is supplied in a form which is far less useful 
than sugar to the animal body, quite apart from 
any question of its action as a drug. 

The action of alcoholic liquors in relation to 
digestion is a subject upon which there is consider- 
able difference of opinion. The Advisory Com- 
mittee* appointed in 1916 by the Central Control 
(Liquor Traffic) Board to consider the effects of 
alcohol upon health and efficiency carefully weighed 
the evidence, and concluded: " Moderate doses 
have never been shown to affect appreciably the 
digestive organs apart from their taste and their 
tendency to increase the secretion of fluid and 
mucus from the walls of the stomach. On the 
other hand, there is a consensus of opinion that 
some of the alcoholic beverages may be more 
deleterious than others : wines which do not notice- 
ably interfere with the digestion of one man may 
cause trouble to another." The latter feature they 
regard as due to the accessory substances and not to 
the alcohol itself. 

Overshadowing completely its importance as a 
food is the fact that alcohol is both a drug and a 
poison. Its effects as such are well recognised, 
and any detailed consideration of them is beyond 
* The Report of this Advisory Committee contains a careful 
and impartial account of the physiological action of alcohol in 
relation to its effects on health and industrial efficiency. It was 
published in 1918, by H.M. Stationery Office, under the title o* 
■ Alcohol ; its Action on the Human Organism." 

73 



Food and the Public Health 

the scope of this book. The conclusions of the 
Advisory Committee need only be quoted in this 
connection. They are, that the main effects of 
alcohol that have any real significance are due to 
its action upon the nervous system and that this 
action is essentially sedative and is not really 
stimulant. "The popular belief in the stimulating 
properties of alcohol, as regards nervous and other 
functions, seems to be of purely subjective origin 
and illusory; it is, in the main, if not wholly, an 
effect of the narcotic influence of the drug, for, as 
we have seen, it dulls the drinker's perception of 
unpleasant conditions in himself and his surround- 
ings, and may make him feel better, more efficient 
and stronger than he really is." 

The other common effects of alcoholic con- 
sumption are narcotic in nature, due to the removal 
of the control exercised by the higher nervous 
centres. Acting through the nervous system, 
alcohol lowers functional activity, and as an aid 
to work, mental or muscular, is physiologically 
unsound. On the other hand, it is of value in 
certain contingencies. The general conclusion of 
the Advisory Committee is that the moderate use 
of alcoholic beverages is physiologically permis- 
sible only so long as it conforms to certain special 
conditions, these being as follows : (i) To avoid 
a continued action on the tissues, such an interval 
should elapse between the times when alcoholic 
beverages are drunk as will prevent the persistent 

74 



Beverages 



presence of a deleterious amount of the drug in 
the body. (2) To avoid direct injury to the 
mucous membrane of the stomach, alcohol should 
not be taken in concentrated form and without 
food. 

The temperate consumption of alcoholic liquors, 
in accordance with the above rules of practice, 
may be considered to be physiologically harmless 
in the case of the large majority of normal 
adults. 

To one looking at the subject from the Public 
Health standpoint, the feature of the alcoholic 
question which looms largest is not the amount of 
direct injury to individuals from the excessive use 
of alcohol, but the enormous wastage of money, by 
those who cannot afford it, upon alcoholic bever- 
ages. All investigators among the poorer sections 
of the community realise that no inconsiderable 
proportion of ill-health results from the diversion of 
money from the family income to alcoholic drinks, 
which do not furnish any material nutriment. 
This is a direct tax upon the food budget of the 
rest of the family, in innumerable cases reducing 
the income of the family available for food to a 
sum incompatible with the maintenance of 
adequate physiological vigour of all or some of 
its members. In this way alcohol is responsible 
for a material proportion of the ill-health of the 
community. 



75 



Food and the Public Health 

Some Non-Alcoholic Beverages 

Tta. — In view of the heavy consumption of 
tea, it is important to consider how far this habit 
is detrimental to health. Tea-drinking in this 
country is of comparatively modern origin, and 
even up to a century ago the average consumption 
per head per year was only a little over i lb., 
compared to the present rate, which is five to six 
times that amount. 

In relation to health, the only constituents of 
importance are caffeine and tannic acid. Caffeine 
belongs to the group of bodies known as vegetable 
alkaloids, and, like many other members of the 
group, is a powerful drug. In tea it is present 
in a percentage of 2^ to 4, varying with the kind 
of tea. It is very soluble, and is all, or practically 
all, dissolved out and present in the infusion as 
drunk. It is a stimulant to the nervous system, 
but cannot be considered harmful in moderate 
doses, its most prejudicial effect being exerted 
when tea or coffee is used, as is sometimes the 
case, by brain workers as an habitual stimulant 
to enable mental work to be performed which the 
brain without this stimulus would be unable to 
perform. Taken in habitual excess, tea may lead 
to a prejudicial stimulation of the nervous system. 

More serious is its possible effect upon the 
digestive organs, to be ascribed in the main to 
the amount of tannic acid which it contains. This 

76 



Beverages 

substance is an astringent; as such it exerts a 
prejudicial action upon the stomach and other 
organs with which it comes in direct contact, and 
is one factor in the production of certain types 
of indigestion. The amounts present in tea in- 
fusions as drunk vary greatly, the two most im- 
portant factors being the kind of tea and the length 
of time of infusion before it is drunk. Unlike 
caffeine, more is dissolved out with prolonged 
infusion. 

Used with discretion and not in excess, and 
not consumed in a stewed condition, tea can be 
accepted as an advantageous addition to the dietary 
and as tending to healthy living. In stating this 
view we have to remember what tea replaced. Man 
does not take kindly to cold water as his habitual 
beverage ; milk he regards as a child's drink and, 
with more reason, as a food, so that tea and coffee 
are largely substitutes for alcoholic beverages. 
For example, in the seventeenth century and earlier 
the drink at breakfast was ale or beer. 

Coffee. — This is another comparatively recent 
importation, with much the same general charac- 
ters as a beverage as tea; it is, however, far less 
drunk in this country. It contains the same 
alkaloid, caffeine. A cup of strong black coffee 
will contain about ij^ grains of caffeine and a 
certain amount of tannic acid. Its actions as a 
stimulant and as a cause of indigestion are much 
the same as those of tea, but, being so much less 

77 



Food and the Public Health 

used, it is not so commonly associated with that 
condition. 

Cocoa. — This contains no caffeine, and the 
alkaloid theobromine, which it does contain, in 
amounts up to 2 per cent., has no stimulant action 
on the nervous system. In the main it is a harm- 
less beverage, and although in itself not of high 
nutritive value, it ranks from this point of view 
above tea and coffee. 



78 



CHAPTER V 
Milk and Milk Products 

Of all foods, milk is most intimately and frequently 
associated with disease, and is the one which re- 
quires most care in its collection and distribution, 
but receives the least. This country has many 
sanitary sins at its door, but the least excusable 
is the one which has allowed our milk supply to 
become and remain to-day a disgrace and a 
scandal, in spite of the proofs — full, pressed down 
and running over — of the harm done which have 
been furnished by experts over a long period of 
years, and which no vested interest has been 
able to deny or to palliate. The ineffectiveness 
of the control over the production, transmission 
and sale of milk furnishes a striking illustration 
of the powers of vested interests to protect them- 
selves at the expense of the health of the com- 
munity. 

Milk and disease. — The close association of 
milk with disease and ill-health rests upon the 
following facts and considerations: — 

i. The animal supplying it may be diseased, 
so that the milk is infected at its source, 

79 



Food and the Public Health 

2. Milk: is an ideal medium for the growth of 
bacteria, so that any danger from infection is 
magnified by the multiplication subsequently of 
the bacteria added. 

3. Milk readily lends itself to chemical sophisti- 
cation and impoverishment. 

4. It is a food which to a large extent is con- 
sumed uncooked, and by children and other 
specially susceptible persons. 

Composition of milk. — Being the secretion 
of a living animal, milk is both highly complex 
in nature and to some extent variable in com- 
position. It contains all the primary chemical 
constituents of food mentioned in Chapter I., i.e. 
proteins, fats, carbohydrates, salts and water, while 
it also contains abundance of vitamines. These 
constituents are distributed in proportions not very 
different from those most suitable for the require- 
ments of young and adult human life, but as 
regards cows* milk some adjustment of proportions 
is necessary to fit it for the delicate stomach of 
the infant and to make it conform in composition 
and physiological qualities to human milk. 

Milk is fatally easy to adulterate, and, equally 
to the expert as to the man in the street, the 
addition of even a fifth or a quarter of water, or 
the abstraction of a considerable proportion of its 
cream, makes to the eye no detectable difference. 
Such alterations can be easily detected by the 
analyst, too easily in fact, since the very ease of 

80 



Milk and Milk Products 

the manipulation allows the fraudulent milk vendor 
(a numerous tribe) to utilise analytical procedures 
to abstract cream or add skim milk or water in 
considerable amount and yet be within the legal 
standards. 

The legal standard. — Cows' milk, in the eyes 
of the law, is the full, unaltered secretion from 
the udder of that animal, but in view of the varia- 
tions in composition due to the character of the 
food given, breed of the cow and methods of milk- 
ing, it is necessary to set up some chemical 
standards of composition, to fall below which is 
to create a presumption of adulteration, while milk 
that rises above it, even by the fraction of a per- 
centage, is to be passed as genuine whole milk. 

These standards are a proportion of fat of 3 per 
cent, and a proportion of solids not fat of 8.5 per 
cent. Taking the fat (cream) figure, the average 
composition of pure milk as collected at the farm 
is about 3.8 per cent., that of legally genuine 
milk as sold in many of our large cities is about 
3.1 to 3.2 per cent. This means a loss of about 
one-fifth of the fat, one of the most important of 
the constituents necessary for the growth of the 
infant and the young child. 

The existing enactments to protect the con- 
sumer from alteration in the chemical quality of 
milk are unsatisfactory, the fines inflicted are often 
ridiculously inadequate, and the profit from selling 
water at the price of milk is enormous. 

g, 81 



Food and the Public Health 

Diseases of cows conveyed by milk, — While 
^theoretically a number of diseases may be con- 
veyed to man from the milk of cows which are 
Suffering from disease, the only ones of any 
importance are tuberculosis, sore throat, food 
poisoning, and possibly undulant fever, usually 
called Malta fever. 

Outbreaks of food poisoning are dealt with in 
Chapter VI., as they are so much more commonly 
spread by meat foods, but it may be mentioned 
here that in a considerable number of such attacks 
in which the vehicle was milk the outbreak was 
shown to be due to disease of the cow, the udder 
being infected with one of the food-poisoning 
bacilli. 

Milk and undulant fever. — Undulant fever is a 
disease common in the Mediterranean area, caused 
by an organism called Micrococcus melitensis. 
Goats' milk is the common vehicle of spread, and 
this organism has been found in abundance in- 
fecting the milk of goats in Malta and other centres 
where the disease is always prevalent. The 
organism has been found in cows' milk, but is 
very rarely spread from the milk of that animal. 

Milk and sore throat. — Outbreaks and 
isolated attacks of sore throat and other septic 
diseases spread through the milk supply are prob- 
ably not uncommon, but the cause is frequently 
overlooked. A considerable number of outbreaks 
have, however, been recorded. 

8* 



Milk and Milk Products 

Cows fairly frequently suffer from inflammation 
of the udder, giving rise to the condition called 
mastitis or garget. This is always due to the 
action of bacteria, and may be set up by a good 
many different varieties, the majority belonging to 
the group known as streptococci. Cowkeepers are 
prone to regard this condition with far too little 
concern, classing it "as a little cold in one 
quarter " of no particular moment, and frequently 
allowing milk from such affected udders to be 
mixed with the rest of the supply and sold for 
human food. Fortunately only certain varieties of 
these streptococci are infectious and harmful to 
man, otherwise outbreaks of human disease from 
this source would be extremely prevalent. 

As an illustration of such attacks, an outbreak 
in April, 1905, investigated by the writer, may 
be mentioned. At least 600 persons were attacked 
with symptoms of "septic sore throat," but for- 
tunately there were no deaths. The outbreak was 
unmistakably spread by milk, since the infection 
picked out the houses supplied from a particular 
source and neglected the rest. The incriminated 
milk was derived from several farms, but most of 
the cases were on a milk round supplied chiefly 
from one of the farms, and its connection with the 
cases was further shown by the fact that a number 
of persons employed on that farm were also 
sufferers. Among the cows on that particular farm 
was one suffering from mastitis, the milk from 

83 



Food and the Public Health 

which was being added to the rest and sold 
throughout the outbreak, which only ceased when 
this animal was isolated and its milk not used. 
The mastitis was due to a virulent type of strepto- 
coccus, and the sore throat cases were of similar 
origin. 

Milk and tuberculosis. — The disease caused by 
the tubercle bacillus is the most widely prevalent 
and fatal disease which affects civilised mankind. 
A considerable proportion of it is derived from the 
lower animals, and the relationship of tuberculosis 
to milk is of great importance. 

Most of the domestic animals (the sheep being 
a notable exception) suffer from this disease, but 
from the point of view of direct infection to man 
the only species of importance are cattle and pigs. 
While tuberculosis in man may be set up by eating 
the meat of such animals, this source of infection is 
of far less importance than the consumption of 
tuberculous milk, partly because the latter is largely 
consumed raw, but also because it is the food of 
the young, who are peculiarly susceptible to in- 
fection through the digestive system. 

Tuberculosis in the pig is believed to be con- 
tracted, in the main, from the ox through the milk 
of infected cows or from consuming the excreta of 
tuberculous cattle. Its prevalence varies greatly in 
different countries and in different parts of the same 
country. Quite broadly, its prevalence in this coun- 
try varies from about i to 4 per cent. The disease 



Milk and Milk Products 

may be quite localised in certain parts of the body, 
or may be generalised and affect a number of 
areas. 

The prevalence of tuberculosis in the ox and the 
cow cannot be stated as a definite percentage, since 
it varies not only in different areas but, to a marked 
degree, is influenced by age, the disease being far 
commoner amongst older animals. In calves it is 
rather infrequent, but in cows from i to 13 years 
old the percentage of tuberculous animals has been 
found to vary from 13 to as high as 70 per cent., 
rising steadily with age. 

It is a very fortunate fact that not all such cows 
yield milk containing the tubercle bacillus. From 
this point of view we can group tuberculous cows 
into three classes. 

The most dangerous are those which are affected 
with tuberculosis of the udder (mammary glands), 
since in all but the very earliest cases tubercle 
bacilli are excreted into the milk, and often in 
enormous numbers. The extent to which these 
animals occur varies greatly in different places, 
but roughly about 1 per cent, of all the cows in 
England are so affected. The condition is difficult 
to detect, and the cows frequently appear in good 
health. 

The next most important group are the cows 
suffering from widespread advanced disease of 
many organs, because while the udder is not 
affected, in most instances the tubercle bacillus is 

85 



Food and the Public Health 

found in the milk. In this group the animals are 
obviously ill and cases are easily detected, while 
the number of bacilli present is less than when the 
udder is diseased. 

The bulk of tuberculous cows belong to the re- 
maining group, and these do not usually yield any 
tubercle bacilli in the milk. The group is never- 
theless of great importance, since the animals infect 
others, while at any time such an animal may pass 
into one of the other groups. A few of them, 
indeed, do pass tubercle bacilli in the milk, and as 
they are well nourished such cases are most difficult 
to detect. 

When ordinary mixed-milk samples are ex- 
amined by the bacteriologist he finds the tubercle 
bacillus in about 8 to 15 per cent, of the samples, 
considerable variation with district being shown. 
It is probably a reliable statement to make that, in 
general, one out of every ten samples of ordinary 
milk as sold contains the bacillus of tuberculosis. 

Bovine tuberculosis in man. — The extent 
to which human tuberculosis is attributable to 
infected milk and meat has been the subject of 
much investigation and has been fairly clearly 
defined. This is possible from the fact that the 
type of tubercle bacillus found in man is differ- 
ent from the type found in cattle and pigs, and 
the bacteriologist can distinguish the one from 
the other. While the human type cannot readily 
affect cattle, the bovine type (being the more viru- 

86 



Milk and Milk Products 

lent of the two) unfortunately can and does attack 
man. Careful and painstaking studies of the types 
isolated from human cases have shown that while 
tuberculosis of the lung (consumption or phthisis) 
is rarely due to the bovine bacillus (less than 2 per 
cent.), a material proportion of cases of tuberculosis 
of other organs is due to infection with the bovine 
type, and therefore is of milk or meat origin. 

Nearly all the cases of tuberculosis of bovine 
origin in man occur in children. Following the 
careful summaries of Cobbett, it may be said that 
about 18 per cent, of tuberculosis of the brain and 
its membranous wrappings, about 51 per cent, of 
tuberculosis of the abdomen, half to three-quarters 
of all cases of tuberculosis of the glands of the 
neck, and probably about 20 to 30 per cent, of 
tuberculosis of the bones and joints are of bovine 
origin. 

These figures merely set out the proportions of 
the varieties of tuberculosis which are derived 
from diseased animals, but the actual extent can 
be obtained in another way, and Cobbett has calcu- 
lated from the above figures that the mortality 
caused by infection with the bovine type at all ages 
is 6 per cent, of all cases of tuberculosis. This 
means that about 3,180 deaths per annum in Eng- 
land and Wales are due to tuberculosis of bovine 
origin, nearly all of which is from tuberculous 
milk, and practically all among children. If any- 
thing, experts would regard this as an understate- 

87 



Food and the Public Health 

ment. In addition, it takes no account of the 
amount of disease and suffering from these condi- 
tions which does not cause death. For instance, 
the majority of cases of enlarged glands in the 
neck of tuberculous origin are of the bovine type 
and are due to milk infections, but this condition 
rarely causes death. 

Owing to the magnitude of the problem the 
difficulties in the effective control of tuberculous 
milk are considerable, while really two separate 
questions have to be considered. On the one hand 
the problem is an agricultural one, since the loss 
from tuberculous cattle is very heavy, and on 
economic grounds, quite apart from its connection 
with human disease, urgently calls for solution. 
It is also a Public Health matter, since much 
human infection is to be traced to this source. 

The Tuberculosis Order, 1914. — Very little was 
done in the way of prevention until the Tuber- 
culosis Order of 19 14 was passed. After the War 
broke out this was suspended from operation, but 
from administrative and other reasons it was not a 
very efficient instrument. It aimed at limiting the 
amount of tuberculosis in cattle by providing for 
the destruction of two of the classes of tuberculous 
animals mentioned above — cows with extensive 
advanced tuberculosis and those with tuberculosis 
of the udder — as the chief distributors of infection. 
This was on right lines, but its value was largely 
nullified by its being worked solely as an agricul- 

88 



Milk and Milk Products 

tural and not, as is absolutely necessary, also as a 
Public Health measure. As a measure to diminish 
bovine tuberculosis the Order, as it was being 
worked over large parts of the country, was, in the 
writer's opinion, a decided failure. 

The whole question of tuberculosis in cattle 
needs to be tackled on broad lines. Not only must 
steps be taken to notify and get rid of the worst 
sources of infection to other cattle and the chief 
founts of tubercle bacilli in milk, but active 
measures are necessary to find out and destroy such 
animals. In other words, the preventive side of 
the problem must be developed, as ft certainly 
was not under the Tuberculosis Order as adminis- 
tered, while at the same time farmers need to be 
encouraged and helped to build up herds of cows 
entirely free from tuberculosis, a procedure which 
is quite practicable. 

The general public can do a great deal to bring 
about proper preventive steps merely by appreciat- 
ing the need for and demanding milk free from 
tubercle bacilli. When such a public opinion is 
formed, farmers will find it worth their while to 
take the necessary trouble and care to meet the 
demand. The existing apathy of the public gives 
them no inducement to do so. At present the only 
safe thing is to boil all milk for children. 

Contamination of milk originally pure. — The 
above remarks deal with disease originating 
with the cows themselves, but outbreaks of in- 

89 



Food and the Public Health 

fectious diseases spread by milk are more frequently 
due to contamination of the milk with the special 
germs of these diseases from sources outside the 
cow. Diphtheria, typhoid fever and scarlet fever 
are the conditions most frequently spread in this 
way. 

Infection may be conveyed directly or in- 
directly. On the one hand, it may be derived from 
a person who conveys the germs either because he 
himself is suffering from the disease, is a living 
carrier of the germs (see Chapter III) in his throat 
or nose, or has the germs on his clothes from recent 
contact with a case. On the other hand, infection 
may be indirect, from contact of the milk with 
water, or with vessels, etc., which have become 
infected with the specific organism. These 
methods of infection will be made clearer if a few 
examples are given. 

Diphtheria breaks out in the family of a cow- 
keeper who himself does some of the milking. The 
cowkeeper becomes infected, but owing to his 
natural powers of resistance either does not become 
ill at all or is so slightly attacked (a trifling sore 
throat with some malaise) that the nature of the 
affection is not suspected. He becomes a disease 
carrier with the living diphtheria germs growing 
in his throat or nose. Owing to absence of strict 
cleanliness some of the germs get upon his hands 
and so into the milk, or he coughs out diphtheria 
bacilli into the milk while he is milking. In the 

90 



Milk and Milk Products 

milk these bacilli not only live Enit multiply 
enormously and infect not merely the one batch of 
milk but frequently other batches, either directly 
by the mixing of the supply or indirectly through 
contaminated milk vessels. The result is a 
widespread outbreak of diphtheria amongst the 
consumers. 

In one instance (an actual outbreak) the woman 
in charge of a certain milkshop suffered from sore 
throat but took no particular notice of it and went 
on with her work, which included the handling and 
selling of milk. A few days later 40 cases of scarlet 
fever developed among the consumers of this milk, 
the outbreak only ceasing when she was removed to 
hospital. The fact that her sore throat was part of 
an unrecognised attack of scarlet fever was proved 
by the fact that she infected her two children a 
week after she was attacked, both of them 
developing undoubted symptoms of that disease. 

In another outbreak 61 cases of typhoid fever 
suddenly occurred, all on the milk round of one 
dealer. The milk churns were washed by a man 
who was nursing a case of that disease. He was 
unclean in his habits, and very careless, and no 
doubt infective material from the person he nursed 
was conveyed by his hands directly into the churns 
and so infected the milk. 

In general, it may be said that outbreaks of 
diphtheria and scarlet fever are more usually con- 
veyed by direct infection from a human case or 

91 



Food and the Public Health 

carrier, while cholera, typhoid fever and dysentery 
may be so spread but are more often conveyed by 
indirect means such as water. 

Many hundreds of such outbreaks have been 
recorded, many more occur but are not reported, 
and in a good number the source of infection is 
unrecognised. They still occur with considerable 
frequency. 

Characters of milk-borne outbreaks. — What- 
ever the method of infection, milk-borne outbreaks 
are nearly always characterised by certain features, 
of which the following are the most important : 

(a) The cases develop among those who drink 
a particular supply of milk. The houses invaded 
by the disease have a common milk supply, and 
usually nothing else in common. 

(b) The outbreaks are explosive in character, 
that is to say, the bulk of the cases occur within a 
few days of one another. 

(c) Those who are attacked are the milk-con- 
suming part of the community. The richer classes, 
who drink more milk, are attacked in higher 
proportion than the rest of the community, 
children more than adults (unless the local custom 
is for the children to have their milk boiled). 

(d) The milk drinkers in particular houses are 
attacked. Inquiries show that the sufferers are the 
milk consumers, while those who do not drink 
milk, or only drink it when cooked, escape. 

There is yet another group of sources of con- 
92 




A. — Plate of solid nutrient material (agar) exposed for 15 seconds under the 
udder of a cow which had been groomed iourteen hours before milking. 

B. — Similar plate exposed for the same period under the udder of a cow 
groomed about an hour before milking, the udder being washed with soap 
and water and left moist. 

Each round white growth (colony) shows where one bacterium fell and grew, 
when incubated, into a colony. In A the number of colonies on this 
small area was 1,350. in B only 93, showing the enormous reduction 
effected by washing the udders. 

(From a Report by A. Lauder and A. Cunningham.) 

Plate IV. 



Milk and Milk Products 

tamination, which is of great importance, and 
which may be spoken of as general bacterial 
contamination of milk. 

How bacteria get into milk. — As sold in our 
larger towns, and in many of the smaller ones, 
milk frequently contains more than a million 
bacteria in each teaspoonful. Where do they come 
from, and does it matter if they are there ? 

Milk as secreted by the udder of the healthy cow 
is free from bacteria, but at every stage from the 
udder to the consumer contamination with bacteria 
is possible, and under many of the conditions 
which prevail to-day is invited. This will be very 
evident if we follow it in its passage. 

During the milking operations the heaviest 
contamination is derived from the cow. It is very 
common, indeed in many districts it is almost the 
usual thing, at least in winter, to find the hind- 
quarters of the cow caked with partially dried 
manure (see Plate III.). The udders and teats are 
less obtrusively dirty, but they have only to be 
washed in water and the water looked at to 
demonstrate their filthy condition. During milk- 
ing a good deal of this dirt gets into the milk. 
Mere simple washing of the udders and teats by 
unskilled persons will reduce enormously the num- 
ber of bacteria added (Plate IV.) ; in several series 
of experiments it was reduced from about 4,000 to 
about 200 per cubic centimetre (a cubic centhnetre 
is about half a teaspoonful). Confronted with 

03 



Food and the Public Health 

manure-caked cows, cowkeepers frequently com- 
plain of the impractability of keeping them clean. 
This is undoubtedly difficult under the conditions 
which are allowed to prevail so frequently. With 
floors not constructed of impervious materials and 
with the insanitary and dirty yards (see Plate V.) 
which surround so many cowsheds, undeniably it 
is most difficult to keep cows clean, but both these 
factors are easily remediable. 

The dusty clothes of the milker, his dirty hands 
(for if they are clean to begin with they are filthy 
by the time he has milked two or three cows), the 
dust-laden air of the cowshed (see Plate VI.) all add 
their quota of bacteria to the milk. Another 
common source of bacteria is from imperfectly 
washed milk pails and milk churns. 

Frequently milk as it leaves the cowshed 
directly after milking will contain as many as 
20,000 to 50,000 bacteria per cubic centimetre, and 
sometimes much higher figures are obtained. 

Straining of milk. — The cowkeeper does not 
know much about bacteria, but he cannot fail to 
observe that particles of mud and other filth get 
into the milk, so he strains them out. He then 
thinks he has done all that can be reasonably 
required and that the milk is clean again. Strain- 
ing milk is useless to remove bacteria, and milk 
after straining contains just as many as before, 
indeed it often contains more, since bacteria are 
often added from a strainer not kept scrupulously 

91 



Milk and Milk Products 

clean. From the Public Health point of view the 
straining of milk is not the slightest protection 
to it. 

Contamination in transit. — In transit to the 
town more bacteria often get in from dirty churns 
to which it is transferred, from dust washed in by 
rain through the ordinary ventilation holes (which 
are not required), from mixing the milk at the rail- 
way stations, and in other ways. Considerable as 
this contamination may be, it is slight compared 
to that which takes place at the cowshed. 

Contamination in milkshops and dwellings. — 
At stages further on many more bacteria obtain 
access — on the premises of the purveyor and the 
consumer, from the neglect of simple cleanliness, 
from dust, flies, unclean vessels, and the like. 

Cooling. — As already explained, milk is a 
highly favourable nutrient material for the growth 
of bacteria, and those which gain access to it 
multiply greatly. Milk should always be cooled 
by passing it over a cooler or refrigerator, a simple 
and inexpensive apparatus which reduces its tem- 
perature by a stream of cold water or saline 
mixture. In many cases the milk is not cooled at 
all, or but imperfectly cooled. When it leaves 
the cow it is at the temperature of the animal, one 
which is particularly favourable to the rapid 
growth of bacteria, so they thrive and multiply 
enormously. Milk is frequently not received by 
the consumer until twenty-four hours .after col- 

95 



Food and the Public Health 

lection, and in that time the bacteria may increase 
io- to i oo-fold or more, depending upon the 
temperature of the fluid. For example, in some ex- 
periments of the writer's, milk kept at the moderate 
temperature of 15 C. (59 F.) increased 2- to 
40-fold, varying with the initial number, and when 
kept at 21 C. (70 F.), from 13- to 2,250-fold. When 
kept at freezing-point there was usually a slight 
decrease. 

From the above it will be clear that the number 
of bacteria found in milk as purchased by the 
public will depend upon three factors— -the 
cleanliness in collection, transit, and delivery, 
the time between the milking and its final sale, 
and the temperature at which the milk has been 
kept. 

It is not possible, under ordinary natural con- 
ditions which could be carried out, to produce 
milk free from bacteria, but it is practicable to 
obtain and sell milk which, not having been 
manipulated, contains only a comparatively small 
number of bacteria. Practical milksellers have 
shown that this can be done at but small additional 
cost. 

Milk and infantile mortality. — As regards 
the relationship of this dirty, bacteria-laden milk 
to disease, there is a large body of evidence proving 
that a considerable proportion of infant deaths are 
due to the consumption of impure milk. It is not 
possible, with our present knowledge, to say which 

§6 



Milk and Milk Products 

disease germs in the milk are severally and par- 
ticularly responsible, though we can do this for 
some diseases, such as tuberculosis; but the facts 
which have been collected show that there is a very 
much heavier death-rate amongst infants fed with 
milk heavily contaminated with bacteria than 
amongst those fed with pure milk. The bacteria 
and their products cause diarrhoea and other con- 
ditions very fatal to the delicate infant body. 

Why a pure milk supply is still to seek. — 
What should be done to give us a pure milk 
supply. Can it be done as a practical measure, and 
if so, why has it not been done ? 

The effective solution of the problem of tuber- 
culosis in our herds, to begin with, is really a 
question of money. There is no doubt that 
tuberculosis can be banished from our cattle, but 
the expense of doing it all at once would be ex- 
tremely heavy, and would cause such a tremendous 
dislocation of the milk-producing business as to 
make it impracticable. On the other hand, it has 
been explained that the chief danger to man is 
from two varieties of tuberculous animals, i.e. cows 
suffering from tuberculosis of the udder, and those 
suffering from advanced tuberculosis. Their rapid 
elimination is easily within the bounds of prac- 
ticability, could be effected without either any great 
administrative difficulty or undue expense, and is 
a sound proposition if it is combined with steps 
steadily to build up herds free from tuberculosis. 

h 97 



Food and the Public Health 

What is chiefly lacking at the present time is a 
determination to face and solve the problem. 

The protection of the community from the 
liability to outbreaks of acute infectious disease 
spread by milk is largely a matter of adequate 
supervision over those who handle milk, with 
compulsory notification to the local authority of 
all cases of illness among milk-producers and 
distributors. 

The dangers of dirty milk can be obviated by 
a united demand for clean milk on the part of the 
community, and by their insisting that the causes 
of dirty milk, as indicated above, shall be removed. 
It is perfectly practicable to start with defined but 
moderate standards of cleanliness, and then make 
the worst offenders mend their ways by legal 
methods which will make the production of dirty 
milk unprofitable. When this has been effected 
the standards of cleanliness can be raised again, 
and once more the recalcitrant brought into line 
or eliminated as milk-producers. In this way, 
without any dislocation of trade, and with but 
little increase of cost, the quality of milk can be 
materially improved. The bugbear of increased 
cost is always trotted out to hinder such proposals, 
but the extra cost is not great, while dirty, in- 
fected milk is dear at any price. 

Cleanliness at the source. — The place where 
improvement is particularly required is at the 
source of supply. Many well-meaning people who 

98 



Milk and Milk Products 

want to improve the bacterial quality of the milk 
supply come forward with all sorts of devices 
(quite valuable in themselves) to effect improve- 
ment at the stages where they see the milk, i.e. in 
the milkshops, during delivery, and the like. 
These suggestions but touch the fringe of the 
trouble. It cannot be too strongly emphasised 
that the essential place of contamination with 
bacteria is during milking and on the cow- 
producer's premises, and it is cleanliness here 
that we must insistently demand. A cleanly pro- 
duced milk transmitted cool — these are the essential 
requirements to give us clean milk; the other 
things are comparatively minor matters. 

Palliatives. — Pasteurisation is a palliative, not 
a cure, and has only a limited, though valuable 
application. Sterilisation by domestic boiling is 
a very wise precaution in view of the prevailing 
conditions, but this again is only a temporary 
and local palliative. 

Grading. — The grading of milk according to 
its quality, with different prices according to the 
grade, is advocated by many, and is useful, 
especially as a temporary measure; but milk is 
too important to child life to allow the mere pos- 
session of money to determine who shall have it 
pure, and leave dirty, manure-laden milk for those 
whose purses cannot afford the better quality. 
Grading of milk has the great merit that it de- 
monstrates to the milk-producer, as nothing else 

99 



Food and the Public Health 

will, that the bacterial quality of the milk is of 
material importance, and that bacterially good 
milk will command a higher price than milk loaded 
with bacteria. It is educative and useful, and there 
is much to be said for its adoption as a temporary 
expedient, if it is accepted as a means, and not 
as an end in itself — a step towards the production 
of a safe milk supply. 

The kind of standards which are aimed at in 
milk-grading will be clear from the following 
recommendations as to the grading of raw milk 
made by the American Commission on Milk 
Standards : 

"The Commission believes that all milk should be 
classified by dividing it into three grades. 

"Grade A. — Milk of cows free from disease, as 
determined by tuberculin tests and physical examina- 
tion by a qualified veterinarian. Milk produced and 
handled by employees free from disease, as determined 
by medical inspection of a qualified physician, under 
sanitary conditions such that the bacterial count shall 
not exceed 10,000 per cubic centimetre at the time of 
delivery to the consumer. 

"Grade B. — Milk from cows free from disease, as 
determined by physical examination, of which one each 
year shall be by a qualified veterinarian, and produced 
and handled under sanitary conditions such that the 
bacterial counts at no time exceed 1,000,000 per cubic 
centimetre. 

"Grade C. — Milk from cows free from disease, as 
100 



Milk and Milk Products 

determined by physical examinations, produced under 
conditions such that the bacteria count is in excess of 
1,000,000 per cubic centimetre. 

"They suggest that if local conditions are such that 
it is necessary to allow the sale of Grade C milk, its 
sale shall be restricted to cooking and manufacturing 
purposes." 

Ignorance and heedlessness of the consumer. — 

The above statements as to the contamination 
of milk and the practicability of avoiding it are 
not new; they are the commonplaces of the ex- 
pert, given without thanks and without reward to 
those who sit in places of authority, and we may 
well ask ourselves : Why are these things still so? 
Primarily, I think, because the average consumer 
does not know and does not care. The idea that 
his milk may have been depleted of its cream will 
sometimes throw the householder into a white heat 
of indignation against his dairyman, with bene- 
ficial results as regards the future fat-content of 
his milk, but the fact that he and his consume 
countless hordes of bacteria, which certainly 
should not be there, moves him not at all, for he 
does not know of their presence, and if he did 
would not comprehend their significance. With 
this prevailing apathy it is, perhaps, not to be 
wondered at that the powerful interests which 
surround the milk-producer have successfully re- 
sisted reforms, so that very little real progress is 
being effected. 

101 



Food and the Public Health 

Having studied the milk question for over six- 
teen years, the writer has reluctantly to state that 
things are only improved, if at all, to a trifling 
extent. The existing legal powers are inadequate 
in themselves, and largely inoperative as regards 
the sources of supply, since the authorities who 
administer them are chiefly composed of members 
who either themselves produce milk or who are 
intimately associated in business relationship with 
those who do. 

It may, perhaps, be advanced that these remarks 
are to a considerable extent assertions, and that 
the proofs are not given. They cannot be given 
in the space available here, but all who want such 
proofs can find them elsewhere.* 

The new Milk Act.— It will be said that there 
is a Milk Act upon the statute-book, only waiting 
to be put into operation when after-war conditions 
become more normal, and that the effect of this 
Act will be to put everything right. While it is 
decidedly a valuable measure, it will only go part 
of the way towards effecting what is required. It 
will be remembered that this Act resulted from an 
"agreed" Bill, i.e. one to which there was no 
opposition of any importance in its passage 
through the Houses of Parliament. 

In legislation, of a Public Health character at 
any rate, it will generally be found that an agreed 

* See "Milk and the Public Health," by the present author. 
Macmillan and Co. 1912. 

IC2 



Milk and Milk Products 

Bill takes the following course. The promoters and 
drafters of the measure, who know what is needed, 
frame a Bill which does give a satisfactory measure 
of effective control. To get it passed as an agreed 
measure they then have to compound with each 
vested interest sufficiently powerful to endanger the 
Bill in Parliament, either by removing from it many 
of its essential clauses or by allowing - "safeguards" 
to be inserted which in their effect either make the 
clauses largely unworkable or so slow in operation 
that they fail to do much good. The Bill then 
becomes an Act, and both sides have a measure of 
satisfaction, the one because it has succeeded in 
obtaining improvements, possibly material im- 
provements, in the existing laws, and much official 
experience has taught the philosophy that some 
crumbs are better than no bread ; the other because, 
though it has given up a good deal, yet it has 
obtained a respite for years from any more legis- 
lation affecting its vital interests. An "agreed " 
Act, in the sphere of Public Health, is rarely a 
thoroughly efficient instrument. 



Milk Products 

Condensed milk. — Condensed milk is milk 
from which the greater part of the water has been 
removed, and is prepared either from whole milk 
or from separated milk, i.e. milk which has had its 
cream removed. Sugar may or may not be added, 

103 



Food and the Public Health 

so that four varieties are possible; but only three 
appear to be put upon the market — i.e. condensed 
whole milk, sweetened and unsweetened, and 
sweetened condensed separated milk. 

Very large quantities of condensed milk are 
used. For example, in 1909 as much as 991,378 
cwt. was imported into the United Kingdom, and 
a very great increase has taken place since that 
date. 

Various methods of preparation are employed, 
but the usual procedure for the sweetened varieties 
is to take the fresh milk, pasteurise it by heating to 
8o°-85° C, or even higher, and then add cane sugar 
to about 14 to 15 per cent, of the weight of the milk. 
The milk and sugar is then placed in large copper 
vessels (vacuum pans) connected with powerful 
suction pumps and surrounded by coils of steam 
pipes. By exhausting the air a partial vacuum 
is caused, while the chamber is heated by the steam 
pipes. The milk boils at a quite low temperature 
(about 50 C), and the water is removed by the 
pumps. In this way the water is got rid of and 
the milk thickens. The process is stopped when 
the milk has become of the correct density, a point 
ascertained by drawing off trial samples. The 
viscid milk is run out into cylindrical vessels, 
cooled by cold water, the milk being stirred con- 
stantly. When cold the milk is transferred to 
tanks and filled into the tins, which are then closed. 

The preliminary pasteurisation kills most of the 
104 



Milk and Milk Products 

bacteria present, but a certain number gain access 
during the subsequent manipulations. As a rule, 
these are harmless in nature, and do not multiply 
in the unopened milk, owing partly to the absence 
of air but chiefly to the inhibition of growth by the 
high proportion of cane-sugar present. 

The unsweetened condensed milks are usually 
prepared by heating the milk to a higher tempera- 
ture (ioo°-ii3° C.) than that used for the sweetened, 
the heating being done under pressure. After the 
milk is placed in the tins they are subjected to a 
further sterilisation. This is necessary since the 
absence of cane-sugar leaves the milk a fairly 
suitable medium for bacterial growth, in spite of 
its viscid nature. 

All varieties of condensed milk may become 
"blown" and unsound owing to the development 
of gas due to the activities of organisms. With 
the unsweetened variety this is most likely to be 
due to putrefactive and other bacteria, but with the 
sweetened types the commonest cause of blow- 
ing is the action of yeasts, there being few other 
organisms which can grow in the presence of so 
much cane-sugar. With these sweetened milks 
there is no sterilisation after canning, so that if 
the strictest cleanliness has not been observed a 
considerable proportion of a given batch may be 
infected with yeasts during preparation, become 
blown in consequence, and be rejected by the food 
inspector as unfit. 

105 



Food and the Public Health 

These foods are extensively used in infant 
feeding, but to their use for this purpose many 
valid objections can be raised. Even when the 
whole-milk varieties are chosen they are apt to be 
deficient in fat as fed to infants, since to dilute 
the sugar sufficiently so much water has to be 
added that the fat-content is brought down 
dangerously low. The sugar also is apt to disagree. 
The brands made from skim-milk are entirely 
unsuitable, as they do not contain sufficient fat, 
while their thick appearance is liable to deceive the 
ignorant mother into thinking she is using a 
nourishing article. All such brands should be 
conspicuously labelled as not only made from skim- 
milk but also as unfit for infant feeding. 

Condensed milks have the advantage that they 
contain far fewer bacteria than fresh milk, and are 
not likely to spread tuberculosis or other infectious 
disease. 

An important drawback to their use is the fact 
that although the tins may contain few bacteria 
before being opened, they are usually large enough 
to last for a number of days, and the bacteria which 
gain access from dirty spoons, flies, dust, etc., 
survive, and to some extent multiply. In this 
way condensed milks have undoubtedly played 
an important part in the spread of outbreaks of 
infantile diarrhoea, an infectious disease respon- 
sible for a very large number of deaths amongst 
infants in the hot summer months. 

106 



Milk and Milk Products 

These forms of food are chiefly of service as 
a convenient emergency supply for adults. 

Dried milk. — Dried milk is the powder obtained 
either by passing milk rapidly between heated 
surfaces so that it is deprived of its water, or by 
drying on a cylinder in a partial vacuum. A 
number of special methods are employed with 
small variations from these general methods. 

Dried milk is used to a considerable extent in 
connection with the preparation of certain food- 
stuffs, such as milk chocolate, sweets, milk bread, 
and biscuits. These are all legitimate uses, but the 
same cannot be said of its use by dairymen to add 
to fresh milk, either to make up a temporary 
shortage, or to fortify a milk fraudulently reduced 
as regards its fat-content to below the legal 3 per 
cent. 

Apart from trade purposes, dried milk is used 
for ordinary domestic consumption, when fresh 
milk is not obtainable, and for infant feeding. Its 
use for the former purpose is not so satisfactory 
as might be thought likely, since it does not 
readily and completely dissolve in water and re- 
construct milk. It is difficult to get a uniform 
mixture, while the taste is different from that of 
milk, even of boiled milk. Different brands show 
considerable differences in this respect, while the 
solubility seems to decrease with the age of the 
samples. No doubt these defects will be over- 
come in time. 

107 



Food and the Public Health 

As regards its use in infant feeding, dried milk 
is markedly superior to condensed milk, and is free 
from most of the objections of the latter. The 
different brands contain very few bacteria, and 
those present are nearly always harmless; but, if 
prepared without due care, tubercle bacilli present 
in the original milk may survive. Added bacteria 
do not multiply, although they may live for some 
time. 

In view of the extensive use of dried milk in 
infant feeding, much discussion has taken place as 
to whether the methods of preparation destroy the 
natural vitamines (see p. 13) of the milk. The 
evidence is not altogether consistent, but it would 
appear that some vitamines remain, although the 
total amount is diminished. 

The results of feeding infants with dried milk 
of different kinds are highly satisfactory, and 
it is particularly useful for this purpose in the hot 
summer months. The milk reconstructed from 
dried milk has the advantage that the clots formed 
when it meets the acid stomach juices are smaller 
than those which occur with fresh cows' milk, so 
that the dried milk is frequently better borne and 
better digested. There is undoubtedly a consider- 
able future for milk in this form, both for infant 
feeding and for adult use. 

Butter. — Butter is an interesting example of a 
food the final form of which is largely due to the 
beneficent activities of bacteria. The cream, after 

108 



Milk and Milk Products 

churning, is subjected to a process of ripening, 
butter being the resulting product. The changes 
which constitute ripening are due to bacterial action, 
and the commercial value of any butter is largely 
determined by the flavour so produced. 

In the older methods these fermentative 
changes were partly caused by the original bacteria 
in the milk and cream, and partly due to the action 
of the air of the dairy and creamery. Being uncon- 
trolled, there was considerable liability to con- 
tamination with undesirable bacteria, which 
adversely affected the flavour and quality of the 
butter. 

Most butter is now prepared by the addition 
of pure or nearly pure cultures of the bacteria 
which cause these changes. They are added as 
"starters," and are prepared and sold commer- 
cially. The activities of any abnormal bacteria are 
prevented by a preliminary pasteurisation of the 
butter. These starters consist of different varieties 
of lactic-acid bacilli, and are of quite a harmless 
nature. 

It will be apparent that ordinary butter contains 
vast numbers of bacteria; indeed, often as many as 
ten to forty millions per gramme, nearly all being 
of the lactic-acid bacillus type. The number of 
bacteria materially decreases with keeping; but 
as they are quite harmless, the number present is 
immaterial. 

Butter is not of great importance as a source 
109 



Food and the Public Health 

of disease from bacterial contamination. Organ- 
isms such as the typhoid and tubercle bacilli 
artificially added to butter will live for considerable 
periods, but no outbreaks of acute infectious 
disease have been traced to this food. 

The extent to which butter samples naturally 
contain tubercle bacilli varies greatly, and results 
as high as 15 per cent:., or even more, have been 
recorded, but in some of the most recent English 
results the percentage infected was under three. 
The danger of tuberculosis resulting from butter 
is probably not great, and this can be obviated by 
making the butter from pasteurised cream only, as 
explained above. 

Margarine. — Although not a dairy product, 
margarine, being a substitute for butter, can most 
conveniently be considered here. It is made from 
vegetable and animal fats with suitable flavouring, 
and mixed with some milk. 

If made under clean and satisfactory conditions 
margarine, from the point of view of bacterial 
infectivity, is a very satisfactory product. It is 
as nutritious as butter, while it is absorbed nearly 
as well. Physiologically, the only way in which 
margarine may be considered inferior to butter 
is in the fact that the fat-soluble vitamines appear 
to be absent from vegetable fats, while any present 
are destroyed in the manufacture. Vitamines are, 
therefore, absent from margarine. In view of the 
fact that margarine or butter forms such a small 

tio 



Milk and Milk Products 

part of the total dietary, and that necessary vita- 
mines are readily obtained from other sources, 
this fact appears to be of no great practical 
importance. 

The very extensive substitution of margarine 
for butter in the dietaries of both the poor and the 
well-to-do does not seem to be fraught with danger 
to health ; on the contrary, it is probably a material 
advantage, as leading to an increased consumption 
of fat from the lessened cost, and as enabling more 
milk to be sold as milk, instead of being converted 
into butter. 

Cheese. — The changes which occur in cheese- 
ripening appear to be partly chemical, partly bac- 
teriological, the latter being more particularly 
concerned with the processes which give the dif- 
ferent flavours. The number of bacteria in cheese 
is always large, but varies with age. While 
abnormal bacteria may be present and cause 
changes which damage the cheese commercially, 
these organisms are not prejudicial to health. 

Cheese is probably very rarely a means of 
spreading bacterial disease. Tuberculosis might 
possibly be so spread, but there is no evidence of 
actual cases. On the other hand, one extensive 
outbreak of typhoid fever has been traced to cheese 
as the probable cause. 

Ice-cream. — As made in this country, ice-cream 
usually consists of milk and sugar, with a thicken- 
ing agent such as cornflour, and with or without 

in 



Food and the Public Health 

eggs. Flavouring agents, and often colouring 
matters, are added, while gelatine is sometimes 
used in the manufacture. Cream, as such, and 
apart from milk, is not used. The mixture is 
always heated, then cooled, and subsequently 
frozen. 

The essential points are that these constituents 
form a food highly nutritive for bacteria, that ice- 
creams are often compounded from materials 
already heavily infected with bacteria, that they 
are heated but not sterilised, that the cooling is 
natural and therefore prolonged, and that the sub- 
sequent freezing does not kill any of the harmful 
bacteria which they may contain. When it is 
added that the vendors, as a class, are inefficiently 
educated in the importance of cleanliness, and that 
the places where they prepare and store their 
materials are often most insanitary, it is not to be 
wondered at that ice-cream, as sold frequently, 
contains millions of bacteria to the teaspoonful. 
A good many outbreaks of infectious disease, such 
as typhoid fever, and illnesses of rapid onset like 
food-poisoning, have resulted from infection from 
ice-cream. 

Very careful supervision of the preparation and 
sale of this variety of food is required. 



112 



CHAPTER VI 
Meat Foods 

Many of the bacterial diseases from which the lower 
animals suffer are peculiar to them and are not 
shared by man, but a considerable number are 
common to both. While theoretically those 
diseases which also affect man may be conveyed by 
the consumption of the meat of animals so infected, 
in practice the diseases so transmitted are com- 
paratively few. The explanation is that for a 
good many of them the method of infection is not, 
except in extremely rare cases, by way of the 
digestive system. This is true, for example, of 
such diseases as rabies, glanders, foot-and-mouth 
disease, and tetanus (lockjaw). Man can suffer 
from all these diseases, but infection almost in- 
variably occurs through the inoculation of wounds 
or tiny abrasions in the skin or the mucous mem- 
branes, the latter being the delicate linings of the 
mouth, lips, and other parts of the body com- 
municating with the exterior. 

In other diseases, such as anthrax, the meat is 
highly infective, and would infect man if it were 
eaten; but the animals attacked die very quickly, 

i JI 3 



Food and the Public Health 

with severe and definite symptoms, so that there 
is small likelihood of the flesh being sold for food. 
Anthrax of intestinal origin (i.e. derived from food) 
is of extreme rarity, and infection almost invariably 
occurs either through the skin, or through the 
lungs from inhaling the dust of rooms in which 
hides of animals dead from this disease are 
sorted. The disease called actinomycosis is fairly 
common in cattle, especially affecting the tongue 
and jaw, and may possibly be conveyed to man 
by food. Indeed, this condition has been detected 
in ox tongues from Argentina put upon the market. 
Definite cases in man of infection through food 
have not, however, been recorded, although occa- 
sionally man is infected with this disease. 

Apart from disease due to animal parasites, 
which are dealt with at the end of this chapter, 
the only conditions of any importance conveyed 
by the flesh of infected animals are tuberculosis 
and bacterial food poisoning. In addition, there 
is a group of animal diseases of the nature of 
septicaemia and pyaemia, due to the bacteria which 
cause abscess formation and suppuration, and 
giving rise to these conditions in animals; they 
are a menace to man, not so much because the 
consumption of the meat may produce these 
diseases (although this is possible), but because 
the diseases are associated with rapid decompo- 
sition of the meat. Such meat quickly spoils and 
allows outside bacteria to infect it, so that 

U4 




Part of carcass of ox, showing patches of tuberculosis- 
growth in lower half. 

Plate VII. 



Meat Foods 

secondary changes take place, either putrefaction 
or more defined infections, which render the food 
unfit to eat and a danger to health. 

Tuberculosis from meat. — Tuberculosis is the 
most important disease conveyed from domestic 
animals to man. It was explained in Chapter V. 
that this condition is very common both in the 
ox and in the pig, and may be transmitted to 
man from the consumption of the meat of these 
animals. On the whole, the danger of acquiring 
tuberculosis in this way is not very great, for 
three reasons. One is because adults, who are the 
chief meat eaters, are not very susceptible to in- 
fection with the organism of tuberculosis through 
the digestive tract, much less so than children. 
A second reason is because this disease in infected 
animals can be fairly readily recognised (Plate 
VII.), and meat in a badly infected condition is not 
likely to be put upon the market. The most im- 
portant reason is that meat is only eaten when 
cooked. 

It is true that the figures given elsewhere deal- 
ing with the temperatures reached in cooking show 
that the interior temperature of large masses of 
meat does not rise very high, and indeed in the 
middle ot even moderate-sized joints the tubercle 
bacillus would probably not be killed, but those on 
the outside and for some depth from the exterior 
would be destroyed. The bacilli are not implanted 
in large numbers in the middle of masses of muscle. 



Food and the Public Health 

most of them being in glands and other tissues near 
the surface, so that in actual practice the majority- 
are killed during the cooking process. While 
therefore the danger of infection from the meat of 
tuberculous animals cannot be neglected, it is com- 
paratively insignificant compared with that which 
we know exists from milk contaminated with the 
tubercle bacillus. 

Disease may be conveyed not only by meat 
derived from a diseased animal, but also, and much 
more frequently, by meat originally sound but in- 
fected with harmful bacteria after the slaughter of 
the animal. 

Growth of bacteria in meat. — Meat, like milk, 
is an excellent medium for the growth of bacteria. 
If a few harmful bacteria gain access to meat 
by any of the methods discussed farther on, 
they usually find conditions which satisfy all 
their requirements, and then they increase 
enormously in number. The rate of increase is 
markedly influenced by the temperature, but even 
at such moderate temperatures as 55° to 6o° Fahr. 
(i3°-i5° C.) such bacilli may increase many 
hundredfold in twenty-four hours, and many 
thousandfold in forty-eight hours. This very 
materially increases the danger of disease being 
transmitted. 

The digestive juices can usually be relied upon 
to kill out a few harmful bacteria and prevent their 
surviving and passing into the blood stream, and 



Meat Foods 

so setting up disease, but when they are present 
in large numbers sufficient of them may escape 
destruction to cause infection. 

It is this multiplication of bacteria in milk and 
meat which makes these foods so much more 
dangerous as agents for the spread of infection 
than bread, cereals or vegetables, which do not 
favour bacterial growth. 

Infection in the slaughter-house. — It is im- 
portant to consider when and how foods become 
infected from outside sources. At the slaughter- 
house itself heavy contamination may occur. The 
carcasses should not be left to cool and set in the 
killing-room, but should be transferred at once to 
a room, clean and sanitary, kept specially for the 
purpose (see Frontispiece). This is not done in one 
out of a hundred private slaughter-houses. The 
animal is dressed and then the carcass is slung 
in the same room as where slaughtered, and where 
other animals immediately afterwards are killed. 
(Plate VIII.) Anyone familiar with slaughter- 
ing under such conditions will realise the likeli- 
hood of infection from direct handling by the 
slaughtermen, by splashing from the subsequent 
operations on other animals, and by general in- 
fection from dust. Since the carcasses are at nearly 
body temperature and cool slowly, any bacteria 
which have gained access will be provided with 
very suitable conditions for multiplication. 

In quite a number of cases gut scraping is 
117 



Food and the Public Health 

carried on in the same slaughter-house. This is 
a set of processes involving the cleaning out of 
the intestines of the animals, washing them, soak- 
ing them for long periods in salt solution, and 
ultimately using them for catgut or sausage skins. 
Inasmuch as the intestinal contents are crammed 
with bacteria, some of which are likely to be harm- 
ful if the animals are not healthy, while some 
splashing of the contents is hardly avoidable, a 
more dangerous and horrible practice to carry on 
in a slaughter-house is difficult to imagine. 

Often enough sausage-making and the salting 
of meat are carried on in the single-room slaughter- 
house, and the sausage meat and the salted meat 
may be contaminated from splashing during 
slaughtering. Usually the contaminating bacteria 
are not harmful, but it is largely a matter of luck 
whether or not they are. It is indeed a fortunate 
circumstance that we prefer our food cooked. 

Infection transmitted by rats and mice is prob- 
ably of more importance than is generally realised. 
These animals sometimes suffer from bacterial 
diseases transmissible to man, as well as from the 
animal parasites described later on, while in old 
slaughter-houses and other premises where meat 
foods are handled they are frequently very pre- 
valent. They may contaminate and infect car- 
casses by their excretions, and so convey disease, 
but there is little information available as to how 
far infection is actually spread in this way. 

118 



Meat Foods 

Prepared meat foods. — While animal car- 
casses may be infected by any of the methods 
described, the kinds of meat food most liable to 
bacterial infection are the class of made-up meat 
foods, such as brawn, meat pies, sausages, and the 
like, and it is desirable clearly to understand why 
this is the case. 

In the first place, there is a temptation to com- 
pound such foods from meat of inferior quality, 
the makers trusting to the condiments added and 
the alterations which take place in preparation to 
disguise this inferiority. It is, for example, con- 
siderably more difficult to detect inferior quality 
meat, or meat of foreign origin such as horse-flesh, 
when used in sausages or meat pies than when 
vended in the form of joints or large pieces of meat. 

In the second place, such forms of food are 
subjected to considerable manipulation in the 
course of preparation, and if these processes are 
not carried out with scrupulous cleanliness at each 
stage there is the likelihood of bacteria being added 
to the food from unclean hands or utensils, from 
dust, by flies, etc. This danger is increased by the 
fact that the preparation processes are often only 
carried out after the meat has been put aside for 
some time, thus allowing the contaminating 
bacteria to multiply. 

A further source of danger arises from the 
partial heating to which many of these foods are 
subjected. In itself this might appear to give 

119 



Food and the Public Health 

protection, since harmful bacteria will be killed 
during the cooking. This often occurs, but not 
always, since frequently the degree of heat reached, 
a matter regulated by the commercial objects to be 
attained and not by Public Health considerations, 
is not high enough to sterilise the central parts 
of the food (meat pies, for example), while gravy 
and other constituents are sometimes added after 
cooking. Also, this advantage is largely dis- 
counted by the fact that the meat has to be cooled 
again, and cooled slowly, which means that the 
meat, an admirable nutritive material for bacteria, 
is maintained for many hours at temperatures 
which are just those suitable for bacterial growth. 
If, therefore, such made foods are put to cool in 
surroundings where they can become infected, their 
bacterial contamination may be very heavy. 

It is an extraordinary and discreditable fact 
that legislative powers for dealing with the pre- 
paration of such foods are trifling and quite 
inadequate. Under existing conditions it is com- 
mon to find these made-up foods manufactured and 
cooled in most unsuitable premises and under most 
unsatisfactory conditions. The larger businesses, 
which make a feature of such prepared meat foods, 
are usually considerably more satisfactory than the 
smaller places, where they are but adjuncts to other 
trades, but unhygienic arrangements are very 
prevalent generally. 

No one should be permitted to prepare made 
1 20 



Meat Foods 

foods except upon premises which have been 
inspected and approved and which are then 
licensed annually by the Local Sanitary Authority. 
Such authorities should also be required to frame 
and enforce by-laws for the regulation of such 
premises. 

The part played by flies and infected dust as 
agencies in conveying bacterial infection to food 
has already been insisted upon (Chapter III.). 

Sanitation of restaurants, etc. — It may be men- 
tioned here that there is need for very much 
more supervision and control over the sanitary 
arrangements of restaurant kitchens and other 
places where food is prepared on a considerable 
scale. If would-be diners could inspect some of 
these places before they dined their bills probably 
would be smaller and some of them would go 
empty away. But often what the eye does not see 
the stomach does not revolt against. 

Food poisoning. — The public reads from time 
to time in the newspapers accounts of deaths from 
so-called ptomaine poisoning, and every now and 
then is startled by reports of extensive outbreaks 
of illness, sometimes affecting hundreds of persons, 
due to poisoning from some article of food con- 
sumed in common by all the patients. These 
outbreaks and cases are far more numerous than 
would appear from the papers, or even from the 
medical journals, for only a small proportion are 
ever reported. 

121 



Food and the Public Health 

Up till comparatively recently their cause and 
origin was obscure, but our knowledge of their 
nature is now fairly complete. At first they were 
thought to be due to meat which had undergone 
decomposition, and when some fifty years ago 
certain investigators isolated from decomposed 
meat a number of poisons which were called 
ptomaines it was supposed that the poisonous 
symptoms were due to these bodies and the con- 
dition was called ptomaine poisoning, a designation 
which is still adhered to although it is quite 
erroneous and misleading. Ptomaines are chemical 
bodies formed late in putrefaction and when the 
meat would be far too nasty to eat, and they have 
nothing to do with the case. In fact, in almost all 
the outbreaks the erring food eaten is perfectly 
natural in appearance, taste and smell, and there 
is not the slightest evidence of putrefaction. 

Food poisoning is really due to bacterial in- 
fection and is caused by several types of micro- 
organisms, but all the important outbreaks are 
due to one or other of two bacilli — i.e. Bacillus 
enteritidis and Bacillus suipestifer. These two 
bacilli are very nearly identical with one another 
and with the organism which causes paratyphoid 
fever. All three are allies of the typhoid bacillus. 
The so-called ptomaine poisoning is therefore 
bacterial, not chemical, in nature, and is spread like 
other bacterial diseases by infection with a par- 
ticular organism, in this instance through food. 

122 



Meat Foods 

While the vehicle of spread is usually some 
form of meat, this is by no means always the 
case. Of 112 British outbreaks studied by the 
writer, 90 were spread by flesh foods, 9 by milk, 
6 by ice cream, and the remaining 7 by other media, 
including potatoes, cream, and fruit jelly. Of 
those spread by meat foods, 11 were from fish 
(4 fresh, 7 tinned), and 37 from brawn or meat 
pies. The most noticeable point was the fact that 
in two-thirds of the cases the food was prepared 
or made up in one form or another (brawn, meat 
pies, tinned, etc.), while in many of the remaining 
third the food was stuffed meat, or prepared in one 
way or another. The large proportion of out- 
breaks associated with made-up foods is to be 
ascribed to the special handling and other sources 
of infection of such foods, as already described. 

Careful investigations have shown that several 
of the animals used for food, notably the pig and 
the ox (including the cow and calf), may suffer 
from diseases due to these special bacilli, and that 
outbreaks of food-poisoning have in a number of 
instances resulted from the use of these diseased 
animals for food or from using the milk of in- 
fected cows. 

In other outbreaks the evidence clearly shows 
that the food was infected after slaughter, and that 
the animals supplying it were perfectly healthy. 
In these cases the most probable explanation is 
that the healthy meat was infected from animals 

123 



Food and the Public Health 

which were diseased or were bacterial carriers, 
through the splashing of their intestinal contents 
in slaughter-houses, or by infected utensils, or 
by flies or dust. In this way vegetable foods also, 
such as potatoes, may be infected. 

A peculiarity of these two food-poisoning 
bacilli, and one which fits in with their special 
association with these outbreaks, is the fact that 
the poisonous substances they produce as the result 
of their growth (toxins) are very resistant to heat, 
and can withstand the temperature of boiling water 
for more than half an hour. This means that if 
they have had time to grow in or on the infected 
food for some time they will have produced toxins 
which will still give rise to symptoms of food- 
poisoning even after the food has been thoroughly 
cooked. Outbreaks due to these chemical toxins 
alone may result from tinned food, all the bacilli 
having been killed in the process of sterilisation. 

The usual history in outbreaks of food- 
poisoning is that a number of persons, ranging 
from a family to a whole section of the community, 
consume a certain food, and after an interval, 
which may be only a few hours or as long as 30-40 
hours, a large proportion of them are taken ill, 
usually with the same group of symptoms, of which 
marked vomiting, violent and continued diarrhoea 
and severe abdominal pains are the most con- 
spicuous. Death may occur, but most patients 
recover after a few days. 

124 



Meat Foods 

It is usually fairly easy to trace the food which 
has been eaten in common, and if the bacteriologist 
is promptly consulted he can generally trace the 
organism concerned, but it is not always easy 
to say how the food became infected. 

These outbreaks are far more prevalent in the 
summer than in the colder months, but they occur 
all the year round. 

As regards putrefactive changes as a cause of 
poisoning from food, it is probable that the danger 
of such food has been exaggerated. We do not 
know enough, however, in regard to the changes 
which occur, and the bacteria which cause them, 
to be able precisely to measure the danger. Cer- 
tainly, even slightly tainted or putrefied meat 
swarms with bacteria, and should not be allowed 
to be eaten as food. 

Botulism. — A variety of food-poisoning of quite 
another type, called botulism, occurs occasionally 
in America and on the Continent, but there are 
no cases recorded in this country. The symptoms 
are quite different and are rather striking, involv- 
ing the nervous system and the eyes. It is due to 
another kind of food-poisoning bacillus, and only 
occurs when the food has been stored under con- 
ditions which do not allow free air access. The 
so-called cases of botulism in England in 1918 
were examples of a quite different disease, and 
had nothing to do with botulism or any form of 
food-poisoning. The widespread adoption of the 

125 



Food and the Public Health 

term botulism for these cases furnishes an illus- 
tration of the fascination of a definite and attractive 
label for a disease, and the difficulty of rectifying an 
error perpetrated in haste and without due con- 
sideration of all the factors. 

Animal parasites. — In this country the disease- 
producing role played by animal parasites in food 
is not a large one, but they are of considerable 
importance in tropical countries and amongst com- 
munities where food is imperfectly cooked. The 
most important are certain kinds of tapeworm and 
a little worm called Trichina spiralis. Only three 
tapeworms are of any importance in this country, 
and all three require, or prefer, two animal hosts 
for their development, the adult worms living in 
one and the larval or embryo forms in another. 

Two of the adult worms, Tcenia solium and 
Taenia medio canellata, occur only in man, while 
the larval forms occur respectively in the pig 
and the ox. 

T. medio canellata is the largest of the human 
tapeworms, and may consist of more than 1,000 seg- 
ments, with a total length of over 20 ft. The head 
of this tapeworm has four powerful suckers but 
no hooklets. The parasite fixes itself by means 
of the suckers to the intestinal wall, the worm 
living in the small intestine. Each segment con- 
tains male and female organs, and the number 
of ripe segments containing mature eggs at any 
one time may be at least 200. The ripe eggs are 

126 



Meat Foods 

discharged into the intestine and are passed with 
the excretions. They do not undergo further de- 
velopment unless they can gain access to the 
digestive system of the ox, hence the enormous 
number of eggs which are produced on the chance 
that some will reach the desired haven. In the 
ox the eggs develop into larval forms, which pass 
through the intestines into the muscles of the ox, 
where they remain enclosed in envelopes or cysts, 
known as Cysticerci boms. When they are numer- 
ous they cause a peculiar appearance in the meat, 
which is known by the very inappropriate name 
of measly beef. When such infected meat is eaten 
the larval forms are set free, develop into adults, 
which in turn attach themselves to the wall of the 
intestine and continue the cycle. 

T. solium is smaller than the ox tapeworm, 
with rarely more than 800 segments. The small 
head has well-developed suckers and also a ring 
of hooklets. It lives in the small intestine of man, 
and its life history is very similar to that of T. 
medio canellata, except that the corresponding 
bladder-worm, Cysticercus cellulosce, is chiefly 
found in the muscles of the pig, causing measly 
pork, and infection is derived from eating such 
infected pork. Occasionally the bladder-worm 
stage occurs in man, as well as the adult form, in- 
fection resulting from the eggs. 

Both T. medio canellata and T. solium may 
cause ill-health, the latter being the more danger- 

I2£ 



Food and the Public Health 

ous of the two, since both stages may occur in 
man. 

Prevention depends in part upon proper dis- 
posal of the human excretions, and in part upon 
efficient meat inspection and thorough cooking of 
meat foods. 

Man may also be infected from another tape- 
worm, TcBnia echinococcus, but in this case the 
adult worm lives in the intestine of the dog, while 
it is the capsulated larval form which affects man, 
giving rise to the condition known as hydatids. 
These may be very dangerous, as, unlike other 
encysted larval forms, they may increase in- 
definitely in size, with many secondary cysts. 

This tapeworm is a very small one, being 
about one-fifth of an inch long, and has only three 
or four^segments. The head has suckers and two 
series of hooks by which it fixes itself in the in- 
testine. 

The infection is derived direct from the dog, 
or indirectly through drinking water contaminated 
by these animals. Sheep and other animals used 
for food may also be infected from the dog. 

Another important tapeworm, Bothriocephalus 
latus, is rare in this country, but is not infrequent 
in countries bordering the Baltic. The adult form 
occurs in man, producing very severe anaemia, 
and is conveyed through eating fish. The larval 
form is found in various fresh-water fish, especially 
pike and perch, and when such infected fish is 



Meat Foods 

eaten the larval form develops into the adult worm 
in the human intestine. 

Trichinosis is a disease due to a roundworm, 
Trichina spiralis, which has caused many out- 
breaks in Germany, but is uncommon in England. 
Its prevalence in Germany is due to the extent to 
which pig is eaten in a raw or insufficiently cooked 
condition. The parasite occurs embedded in the 
muscles in a larval form, surrounded by a thick 
capsule. If pork so infected is eaten without the 
parasite being killed, the capsules are dissolved 
by the stomach juices and the larvae are set free 
and pass into the intestine, where they develop, 
and in two or three days grow into the adult worm. 
The female adults produce many hundreds of 
larval forms, and these, often by the thousand in 
severe cases, penetrate through the intestinal wall 
and get into the blood stream and are carried to 
the muscles, where they encyst themselves. These 
changes in the muscles give rise to fever and severe 
muscular pain. The adult forms disappear in five 
to six weeks, but the encysted larvae remain alive 
for many months. 

When many of these parasites pass into the 
muscles death may occur, the average mortality 
being about 5 per cent., but it has been much 
higher in some epidemics. One of the worst epi- 
demics in Germany involved over 300 persons, of 
whom nearly a third died. While man is attacked 
from infected pork or other pig meat as just 

J 139 



Food and the Public Health 

described, the pig itself is infected from diseased 
rats, or by the offal, etc., of other pigs. Unlike the 
tapeworms, the whole cycle of changes can occur 
in the same animal. 

It is not practicable to detect trichinosis in pigs 
during life. The method mainly employed for its 
detection after death is the microscopic examina- 
tion of small pieces of muscle taken from the areas 
most commonly selected by the parasite; but this 
procedure is not a particularly satisfactory one. 
The number of pigs affected varies greatly in dif- 
ferent countries, and roughly is from i to 5 per 
cent. The best method of prevention is to eat 
pork, sausages, etc., only when thoroughly cooked, 
since a temperature of about 70 C, or rather less, 
kills the parasite. 



130 



CHAPTER VII 
Foods of Vegetable Origin 

While foods of vegetable origin are not a source 
of much disease, they cannot be altogether ignored. 
Plants, like animals, suffer extensively from bac- 
teria which set up diseases; but while these 
conditions are of great economic importance, 
fortunately none of them can originate these or 
other diseases in man. The only plant conditions 
which are known to be a menace to man are certain 
gross parasitic diseases, of which ergotism and 
lathyrism are the only important examples. 

Ergotism. — Ergot is a vegetable parasite, a 
fungus, which ;attacks grain, usually but not 
exclusively rye grain. This parasite, Claviceps 
purpurea, replaces the grain and appears as a 
brownish-red growth. Bread made from such 
diseased rye is intensely poisonous, its potency 
depending upon the proportion of the rye which 
is diseased. Ergot is a valuable drug, and con- 
tains definite poisonous chemical bodies which, 
while invaluable in definite doses as a medicine, 
have caused appalling outbreaks when consumed 
as bread made from diseased rye flour. 

Outbreaks of ergotism, as the disease is called, 
*3* 



Food and the Public Health 

only now occur in Russia, but in medieval Europe 
epidemics were very widespread and extremely 
fatal. The condition was, no doubt, exaggerated 
by the bad social conditions and insanitary sur- 
roundings of the peasantry, and especially by their 
chronic underfeeding. Outbreaks, involving thou- 
sands of persons, a large proportion of whom died, 
were common in certain parts of Europe. The 
sufferings of the patients were terrible, and the 
disease remained quite uncontrolled until social 
conditions improved and its cause was recognised. 
Lathyrism. — In certain parts of India, and 
to a lesser extent in Italy, France, and Algeria, a 
somewhat analogous condition called lathyrism is 
met with. It occurs in man as a chronic nervous 
disease, with cramps and paralysis of the lower 
limb muscles, due to the habitual use as food of 
the peas of certain species of vetches (Lathyrus 
sativus, Lathyrus cicera, etc.). The symptoms 
appear only after the peas have been eaten for some 
time, and this varies greatly. A striking feature 
of every epidemic is that men are much more 
affected than women, generally at least 10 to i. 
Lathyrus peas are eaten by large numbers of 
mankind, and it is only when they form an ex- 
cessive part of the diet that cases occur. When 
the peas are the sole diet the disease may appear 
in six to eight weeks. The symptoms are due to 
the formation of chemical poisons of the nature 
of vegetable alkaloids. 

132 



Foods of Vegetable Origin 

Bacteria and vegetable foods. — Like milk, 
meat, and other foodstuffs, foods of vegetable 
nature may serve as vehicles of infection carrying 
harmful bacteria and possibly animal parasites. 
Vegetable are much less likely than animal foods 
to act so, partly because they are less handled in 
course of preparation, but mainly because these 
harmful bacteria do not, in general, multiply on 
such material, and are readily washed off. 

Bread is a good illustration of this point. Any 
bacteria which may be in the flour derived from 
human handling, contamination by rats or other 
animals, etc., are nearly all killed in the process 
of baking. There is, however, the risk from hand- 
ling bread. Careful experiments have shown that 
bread handled by dirty persons or without care 
will contain on the crust far more bacteria than 
bread handled with care or sold wrapped in paper. 
It will be obvious from what has been said in 
Chapter III. that bread handled by an infective 
person may serve as a vehicle for carrying patho- 
genic organisms; but inasmuch as such bacteria 
will not increase in numbers, the likelihood of in- 
fection spreading in this way is not very great. 
Cases of typhoid fever in a hospital for the insane 
at Washington have been traced to the fact that 
the attendant, who cut the bread as his first duty 
in the morning, had been taking care of a typhoid 
fever patient in his home. 

The excreta of animals and sometimes of 
133 



Food and the Public Health 

human beings are extensively used to manure soil 
in which vegetables are grown, and it has been 
suggested that in this way typhoid and other 
harmful bacilli may contaminate cabbages and 
other green vegetables and so spread these diseases. 
While this is a possible cause, it is a most unlikely 
one. To complete the chain of infection, the 
typhoid bacilli must be present (they do not live 
very long in excreta and, of course, are only there 
if derived from affected persons), they must infect 
the vegetables, there they must survive light and 
sunlight, and later the washing to which most 
vegetables are subjected, and finally they must 
withstand the cooking. 

Watercress. — The only green vegetable food 
which is likely to act as a vehicle for the spread of 
enteric fever is watercress, because it is sometimes 
grown in water contaminated with sewage matters 
and because it is eaten raw. In several outbreaks 
there has been a strong suspicion that the cause was 
contaminated watercress. Careful and thorough 
washing of the cress very materially reduces the 
risk, but the essential condition is a pure source 
Of supply. 

44 Ropy" bread. — While the bacterial diseases 
of plants are not harmful to man as far as is known, 
some of the conditions which affect such foods, 
particularly when manufactured, make the food 
unsaleable, and so are of some economic import- 
ance. The so-called "ropy" or "slimy " bread 

134 



Foods of Vegetable Origin 

is a good example. The condition is due to a 
harmless spore-bearing bacillus (Bacillus mesen- 
tericus), which gets into the materials of the dough. 
Being highly resistant, the spores are not killed 
in the baking, but grow and cause the bread to 
darken and have a peculiar taste and odour. After 
three or four days the bread becomes ropy or slimy, 
and can be pulled out into strings. The bacillus 
is a common soil organism, and usually gains 
access as a contamination of the yeast. Once 
introduced it may be difficult to get rid of. Other 
varieties of undesirable bacilli may make bread 
acid, due to the formation of lactic or butyric acid. 
As regards acute poisoning from foods of 
vegetable origin, those, such as mushroom poison- 
ing, in which the harmful bodies are naturally 
present have been considered in Chapter I. 

Infected potatoes. — It has been explained that 
outbreaks of food poisoning may occur from in- 
fection of vegetable as well as animal foods with 
the special bacteria associated with those diseases. 
In a number of instances potatoes have been the 
vehicle, so much so that the condition is sometimes 
separated off and called " potato poisoning " as if 
it had a special causation. These outbreaks asso- 
ciated with potatoes were at one time thought to 
be due to an excessive amount of the alkaloid 
solanine, which is naturally present in potatoes, 
and which under special conditions (e.g. when 
sprouting) they may contain in large amount. This 

135 



Food and the Public Health 

is probably not the true explanation, at least in 
most cases. In nearly all the outbreaks the 
potatoes have been peeled overnight, and in this 
condition they are a splendid nutrient material for 
bacteria. The outbreaks are mostly due to these 
exposed potatoes, unprotected by their skins, being 
infected with the food-poisoning bacillus just as 
meat or brawn is infected. 

The only other way in which vegetable foods 
may be injurious is from admixture, with harmful 
chemical substances added either intentionally or 
by accident. Chemical preservatives are added to 
some beverages but are not required for most foods 
of vegetable origin. These and such accidental 
additions as arsenic in beer and lead in cider have 
already been considered in Chapter II. 

Adulterated vegetable foods — The adultera- 
tion of vegetable foods is largely a question either 
of the substitution of a cheaper food of a lower 
nutritive value for one that is more nutritious and 
dearer, or the addition of chemical substances to 
improve the appearance of the food and enhance 
its commercial value. 

It is important to realise to what a considerable 
extent food-faking occurs, and flour (bread) may be 
selected as an excellent illustration. 

Faked flour Wheat flour is used for bread 

because of the high proportion of the protein sub- 
stance gluten which it contains. In bread-making 
the yeast or other gas-producing substance used 

136 



Foods of Vegetable Origin 

causes the flour-arid- water mixture, when baked, 
to rise into a spongy mass, which only remains 
so because the gluten becomes viscid in the process. 
Other cereals, like rice, maize and barley, do not 
contain gluten in sufficient amount and so cannot 
be used for bread-making. Although such a 
simple process, it offers many opportunities for 
substitution or adulteration. While bread cannot 
be made from rice, potatoes, etc., alone, these 
things can be added to wheat flour up to a certain 
proportion. In the English war-bread, potatoes 
were added up to 10 per cent, or more. This 
addition implies the substitution of a substance of a 
lower nutritive value. When the substitution is 
publicly admitted, and only added for a specific 
purpose, such as eking out an insufficient sup- 
ply, it is legitimate enough, but when done 
clandestinely to make money it obviously is a 
fraud. 

The modern taste for white bread has caused 
millers to prepare and sell white flour prepared by 
rejecting the darker outer parts of the wheat grain 
and only grinding up the white interior parts. In 
this way a very white fine flour is obtained. 
Actually it is of lower nutritive value than the flour 
prepared from the whole grain, but it contains 
fewer mechanical particles. The value of their 
removal is problematical, because although pos- 
sibly irritating to a few sensitive persons, for most 
consumers these coarser particles are beneficial by 

137 



Food and the Public Health 

acting as a stimulus to the intestine, preventing 
constipation. 

Many persons considered that war bread 
disagreed with them and caused indigestion, but 
most medical men found that there were very few 
genuine cases, and the majority were probably due 
to the influence of suggestion. Certainly there was 
nothing chemically injurious in war bread, and 
any ill effects could only be due to mechanical 
properties such as the presence of grit, diminished 
porousness, etc. Where complaints were genuine 
they could generally be traced to insufficient milling 
and incorrect baking. 

Millers, however, have not been content to 
produce a white flour obtained simply by the 
rejection of the outer parts of the grain, but the 
higher price of the white brands has led to the 
artificial bleaching of flour. The method most in 
use is to bring the flour for a short time into 
contact with a gas called nitrogen peroxide. A 
lower grade flour when bleached will be whiter 
and therefore commercially more valuable. The 
evidence as to how far this practice is prejudicial, 
from the chemicals (nitrites) introduced into the 
flour, is not very conclusive, but it would appear 
that it may be harmful, apart from the substitution 
of a lower for a higher grade of flour. 

Yeast is used to make the bread rise solely 
because it yields carbonic-acid gas. Owing to the 
inconvenience and sometimes the uncertainty of its 

138 



Foods of Vegetable Origin 

action, chemicals which yield the same gas are 
often substituted and so-called baking powders 
have been evolved. Ordinary baking powder 
consists of sodium bicarbonate and an acid sub- 
stance such as tartaric acid, cream of tartar or acid 
calcium phosphate. The alkali and the acid, when 
mixed with water, yield the same carbonic-acid 
gas as is obtained from yeast. Self-raising flour 
is merely flour containing these essential elements 
of baking powder added to it. 

These chemical substances are harmless enough, 
but the addition of chemicals always involves the 
risk that those used may not be pure. This is a 
likely contingency, because it costs money to 
purify chemicals, and so there is a temptation to 
use impure chemicals. That is exactly what does 
happen. 

Instead of the original cream of tartar, some- 
thing cheaper is used, i.e. acid calcium phosphate. 
This latter substance, as ordinarily made, contains 
considerable amounts of calcium sulphate (plaster 
of Paris). When made with care it only contains 
2 to 3 per cent., but it has been found with as 
much as 50 per cent., and this in acid calcium 
phosphate used in a baking powder. The calcium 
sulphate is at least useless, and possibly harmful. 

Worse contaminations than this may be present, 
for at one time large batches of baking powder 
made from acid calcium phosphate were found to 
contain considerable quantities of arsenic, derived, 

i39 



Food and the Public Health 

as explained in Chapter II., from the impure 
sulphuric acid used to make the phosphate. 
Besides these adulterations, substances called flour 
improvers have been introduced. They consist of 
chemicals which are usually added to the flour in 
the proportion of i to 2 lb. to each sack of 280 lb. 
Chemically they consist of phosphoric acid, acid 
phosphates of calcium, potassium, magnesium, etc. 
The improvement seems to be confined to the 
finances of the vendor, the claim as to their value 
being that more bread can be obtained per sack of 
flour from their use, i.e. the "strength " of the flour 
is improved. This result can, of course, only be 
achieved by retaining more water in the bread. 
Reduced to its financial elements it means that 
the small extra cost of the " improver " is balanced 
against the sale of a certain quantity of water at 
the price of bread. Even if it be granted that the 
chemicals used in the improvers are harmless in 
the pure state, there is the same risk as in the use 
of baking powders — that harmful chemicals may be 
added as adulterants. They do not improve in any 
way the value of the bread as a food. 

Examples from other foods might be given, 
although less striking. They show how extensive 
is the prevalence of food-faking and how insidiously 
poisonous or prejudicial chemical substances may 
be introduced by what appear to be at first sight 
quite harmless additions or substitutions. 



140 



CHAPTER VIII 

Shell-Fish 

The relationship of shell-fish to disease is very 
instructive, and affords many valuable illustrations 
of the ways in which food may serve as a means of 
spreading disease to man. We can recognise all 
the three groups of disease or ill-health which have 
been mentioned in connection with some other 
food : 

i. The shell-fish may be wholesome but dis- 
agree with certain individuals. 

2. The shell-fish may be diseased or unsound 
and so cause acute poisoning. 

3. The shell-fish may be sound and wholesome 
but may act as a vehicle for bacterial infections. 

It is well known that shell-fish, and especially 
mussels, at any time of the year may disagree with 
certain individuals and set up eczema, nettle-rash, 
digestive disturbances, etc. This clearly is due to 
an idiosyncrasy in the individual, and is part of the 
condition of special susceptibility mentioned on 
p. 23. 

Apart from such idiosyncrasies, there are many 
persons who find that shell-fish disagree with them, 

141 



Food and the Public Health 

possibly owing to their indigestible nature, as in 
the case of crabs and lobsters. 

It is also widely accepted that oysters should 
not be consumed out of season, and disagree if so 
eaten, but it is not clear whether this is due to 
bacterial changes in the oyster favoured by warm 
weather or to reproductive changes. 

These conditions, however, while of moment to 
the individual, are of no great general importance, 
and do not give rise to outbreaks of disease. 

Poisonous mussels. — Mussels and other shell- 
fish have occasionally been associated with an 
acute type of food-poisoning. In these cases the 
symptoms come on rapidly after the consumption 
of the mussels, usually within a few hours or less. 
They are of a rather peculiar character, such as 
prickly sensations in the hands and feet, constric- 
tion of the mouth and throat, difficulty in swallow- 
ing and speaking, numbness about the mouth and 
general muscular weakness. These are all symp- 
toms pointing to changes involving the nervous 
system, while they are often associated with the 
vomiting, diarrhoea and abdominal pain character- 
istic of ordinary outbreaks of food-poisoning. 
Death frequently occurs; for example, out of 63 
cases in six different outbreaks, 10 were fatal (16 
per cent.). 

The actual cause of the condition is not clear. 
In one outbreak in Germany (Wilhelmshaven, 
1885) a very poisonous body called mytilotoxin 

142 



Shell-Fish 

was isolated and was believed to be the cause, but 
there is considerable doubt as to the correctness of 
this view. Probably the poisonous properties are 
due to chemical poisons of unascertained nature 
formed from the growth of harmful bacteria in the 
mussels and derived from their being grown in 
contaminated water, as in harbours or docks. It 
has been shown that non-poisonous mussels be- 
come poisonous when placed in polluted waters, 
while poisonous mussels kept in clean, pure, 
running water rapidly become harmless. Out- 
breaks in recent years have been rare, so that 
the obscurity as to the cause has not been 
cleared up. 

** Green" oysters. — An interesting condition 
sometimes met with in oysters is that which is 
indicated by the expression "green " oysters. The 
green coloration is due to several causes; it may 
be harmless in nature, or, as in some of the Cornish 
oysters, it may be due to copper. This, however, 
is only present in very small amount, and a con- 
siderable number of such oysters would have to be 
consumed to set up symptoms of poisoning. The 
condition, therefore, is not of much practical 
importance. 

Shell-fish and bacterial infections.— The chief 
significance of shell-fish in relation to disease 
lies in the fact that they may passively convey 
infectious diseases to man. This applies mainly to 
oysters, cockles and mussels, and the diseases so 

143 



Food and the Public Health 

spread are typhoid fever and, far less frequently, 
cholera and possibly dysentery. 

Oyster-beds. — The adult oyster is sedentary, 
and obtains its food not by pursuing it, but by 
drawing the food to itself. The shell gapes a little, 
and by means of fine processes called silia, which 
vibrate very actively, a current of water passes in 
between the shells and through what is called the 
mantle cavity of the oyster. Here the water under- 
goes a process of straining fine enough to retain 
particles as small as bacteria, while the water itself 
passes through. These particles furnish the food 
of the oyster. In a very pure water the oysters 
do not get enough nourishment, and it is a matter 
of common knowledge that oysters flourish best in 
esturial waters, which contain considerable solid 
matter, and that they grow very well indeed when 
the particles of such waters are augmented by 
sewage. Commercial instinct unchecked by 
Public Health control will naturally, therefore, 
select sewage-contaminated estuary waters as the 
best for oyster cultivation, since they yield the 
fattest and most marketable oysters. 

All these estuary waters contain many bacteria, 
and all oysters contain bacteria, but if the water 
which feeds the oysters is pure all the bacteria will 
be harmless. If the water is sewage-polluted, then 
the oyster will strain out the sewage bacteria and 
the number of these sewage bacteria in the oyster 
will be roughly proportional to the dilution of the 

144 



Shell-Fish 

sewage with pure sea water before it is sucked 
between the valves of the oyster. The bacterio- 
logist can and does measure the extent to which 
shell-fish are exposed to sewage contamination by 
the number of the most readily recognisable types 
of sewage bacteria which he finds in the shell-fish. 

The above facts explain why so many oyster- 
beds have been placed where sewage pollution 
occurred and sometimes where it was very gross, 
and it has required a number of sharp outbreaks 
of typhoid fever to enable Public Health officers 
and departments to get a sufficient backing from 
public opinion to suppress the dangerous oyster- 
beds. 

Because sewage bacteria get into the oyster it 
does not follow that such shell-fish must cause 
typhoid fever or other infectious disease, since the 
ordinary sewage bacteria are comparatively harm- 
less. If they are present in any numbers it shows 
that such oysters are dangerous, because oysters 
from these sources may at any time be infected with 
harmful types of bacteria. This important fact 
explains how it is that oysters from sources known 
to be definitely and, constantly exposed to heavy 
contamination from sewage may be eaten over long 
periods without demonstrable harm resulting and 
then quite suddenly give rise to a severe outbreak 
of typhoid fever. Sooner or later the sewage which 
pollutes an oyster-bed will receive typhoid bacilli 
from the excretions of patients or of unrecognised 

k 145 



Food and the Public Health 

typhoid carriers. It is then a matter of chance, 
depending upon the numbers of typhoid bacilli 
and the degree of fouling of the oysters, whether 
the typhoid bacilli are sufficiently numerous to 
reach and infect the oysters. These bacilli can 
remain alive both in oysters and in sea water or 
tidal mud for a short time (about two weeks), but 
they do not appear to multiply under these con- 
ditions. 

Another source of contamination arises from the 
fact that a large proportion of oysters are not sold 
direct from the beds but are taken up and relaid 
for some months in fattening beds — artificial pools 
washed by tidal waters, and these are frequently so 
situated as to be exposed to sewage contamination. 

Oysters and typhoid fever. — As a typical 
example may be instanced the outbreaks of typhoid 
fever at Winchester and Southampton in 1902, 
following the mayoral banquets in those towns. 
At the Winchester banquet there were 134 guests, 
of whom 9 contracted enteric fever, besides one 
waiter; at the Southampton banquet there were 
132 guests with 10 cases and also one attendant. 
In both cases many others of the guests (44 at 
Southampton) suffered from acute digestive and 
intestinal disorders of varying degrees of severity. 
Careful inquiry showed that the only item in the 
menus capable of explaining the outbreaks was the 
oysters. Both lots of oysters were from the same 
source, and were consumed in both towns on the 

146 



Shell-Fish 

same day, and in other towns in which a number 
of typhoid fever cases occurred oysters obtained 
from the same source were also consumed the same 
day. The oysters were all derived from beds which 
seven years previously had been reported as liable 
to gross pollution. They were laid down within 
a few yards of the main sewer of a town, a town 
in which cases of typhoid fever had been unduly 
prevalent for years, and in which several cases 
had occurred shortly before the outbreaks here 
described. 

As we have seen, infected oysters, if placed in 
pure water, will get rid of harmful bacilli and 
become innocuous again. How long this takes 
depends upon several factors, but about two weeks 
appears to be a safe interval. 

The oysters themselves do not appear to be 
adversely affected by the bacteria, but act purely 
as passive agencies of infection. As they are 
mostly eaten raw, there is no protection from 
cooking. 

To prevent infection from contaminated oysters 
the use of beds liable to heavy sewage pollution 
must be prohibited, and all oysters of suspicious 
origin must be purified by a sojourn for a sufficient 
period in uncontaminated sea water. Considerable 
powers to these ends are available under the Public 
Health (Shell-fish) Regulations, 1915. 

Cockles and mussels .—These shell-fish have 
similarly given rise to cases of enteric fever, but 

147 



Food and the Public Health 

so far as the writer is aware they are not associated 
with other infectious diseases. Being distributed 
and sold in small quantities, they rarely give rise 
to extensive outbreaks ; but there is no doubt they 
have caused many individual cases. Both cockles 
and mussels are, for the most part, found in or 
near estuaries, and are therefore liable to sewage 
pollution in the same way as oysters. 

Cockles, unlike other shell-fish, are subjected to 
some measure of cooking after collection ; accord- 
ing to the cockle-gatherers they are boiled, but 
really they are exposed to only a low degree of 
heat, which affords very incomplete protection. 
Where efficient sterilisation has been practised the 
cockles may be regarded as safe, whatever their 
origin. 



148 



INDEX 



Accessory food substances {see 

Vitamines) 
Actinomycosis, infection with 

from food, possibility of, 114 
Adulteration of milk, 80; of 

flour, 136. {See also Chemical 

additions to food) 
Advisory Committee of Central 

Control Board, on alcohol, 73 
Alcohol, as a food, 71 ; as a 

vaso-dilator, 72 ; effect of, on 

digestion, 73 ; sedative action 

of, 74 ; narcotic action of, 74 ; 

harmlessness of temperate 

consumption of, 75 ; wastage 

of money upon, 75 
Amanita muscaria, 22 

fhalloides, 22 

American Commission on Milk 

Standards, 100 

Aniline dyes, use of, for colour- 
ing food, 39 

Animal foods, protein and, 7 

parasites, infection of food 

with, 126 
Annatto, 39 
Anthrax derived from food, 

Tarity of, 114 
Apples, percentage composition 

of, 8 
Arsenic, in beer, 25 ; in sweets, 

26 ; in confectionery, 26 ; in 

baking powders, 26 

Bacillus enteritidis, \i2. 

mesentericus, and " ropy " 

bread, 135 

of paratyphoid fever, 122 

suifestifer, 122 



Bacon, percentage composition 
of, 8 

Bacteria, 41 ; saprophytic, 41, 
43; pathogenic, 42; rate 
of growth of, 44; spore- 
bearing types of, 44;' 
conditions unfavourable 
to, 45 ; destruction of, by 
heat, 56; effect of cold 
upon, 58; growth of, in 
milk, 80; growth of, in 
meat, 116; contamination 
of meat with, in slaugh- 
ter-house, 117; and foods 
of vegetable origin, 133. 
{See also Infection) 

of food-poisoning, 122 

Baking-powder, arsenic in, 26; 

use of dangerous substances 
for, 139 

Balloon fish, 21 

Bananas, percentage composi- 
tion of, 8 

Barbel, 21 

Bayliss, Prof., and War ration* 

9 
Beans, dried, percentage com- 
position of, 8 

in pod, percentage com- 

position of, 8 
Beef, fat, percentage composi- 
tion of, 8 

medium fat, percentage 

composition of, 8 
Beer, arsenic in, 25 ; in ancient 

Egypt, 67 ; brewing of, 69 
Beri-beri, cause of, 15 
Bothrioce-phalus latus, 128 
Botulism, 125 



149 



Index 



Bovine tuberculosis, 84; fre- 
quency of, 85; in children, 
By ; in human beings gener- 
ally, 87 ; Tuberculosis Order 
(1914) and, 88 ; measures 
necessary to counteract, 89, 

97 

Brandy, 70 

Bread, percentage composition 
of, 8 ; handling of, by dirty 
persons, 133; "ropy," 134; 
acid, 135 ; unsuitability of 
cereals other than flour for, 
136; extra-white, 137. {See 
also Flour) 

Bream, 21 

Butter, percentage composition 
of, 8; "starters" for, 109; 
and disease, no 

Caffeine, in tea, 76; in coffee, 

77 

Calcium, food and, 3 

phosphate, use of, for 

baking-powders, 139 

sulphate, in baking- 
powders, 139 

Calorie values of chief food- 
stuffs, 5 

Calories, 5 ; number of, required 
for moderate and for light 
work, 9 

Canned foods, 28; effects of 
when contaminated with tin, 
30; statistics of, 62; bacterial 
development in, 65 ; destruc- 
tion of vitamines in, 66 

Canning of foods, processes of, 

63 

Carbohydrates, 4, 5 

Carp, 21 

Carriers of infection, 48 

Central Control (Liquor Traffic) 

Board, Report of Advisory 

Committee of, 73 
Cheese, percentage composition 

of, 8; probably the cheapest 



source of animal protein, 9; 
and disease, in 
Chemical additions to food, un- 
intentional, 24 ; automatic, 
28 ; deliberate, 32 ; unsatis- 
factory state of law as to, 36 ; 
work for Ministry of Health 
in regulating, 38 
Chilling, of meat, 59 ; of butter, 

60 
Churns, dirty, 95 
Cider, lead in, 28 
Clavicefs purpurea, 131 
Cleanliness, lack of, in hand- 
ling food, 56 ; in milking cows, 
94 ; in milkshops, 95 ; in mak- 
ing ice-creams, 112; in 
slaughter-houses, 117; in mak- 
ing of prepared meat foods, 
119; in restaurant kitchens, 
121 ; in handling of bread, 

i33 

Cockles, and typhoid fever, 147 
Cocoa, low nutritive value of, 

78 
Cod, percentage composition of, 

8 
Coffee, effect of, on health, yy 
Cold storage, effect of, on bac- 
teria, 58 
Common foods, composition of, 

7, 8 

Condensed milk, 103 ; varieties 
of, 104 ; methods of prepara- 
tion of, 104 ; liability of, to 
become "blown," 105; use of, 
in infant feeding, inadvis- 
able, 106; advantages and 
drawbacks of, 106 

Confectionery, arsenic in, 26 

Cooking, effect of, on bacteria, 
56, 57 ; on animal parasites, 
56; and tuberculous meat, 116 

Cooling of milk, neglected or 
imperfect, 95 

Copper, contamination of food 
with, 28 



ISO 



Index 



Copper salts, use of, for colour- 
ing food, 39 

Cows, milch, uncleanliness of, 
93 

Cowsheds, insanitary, 94 

Cream, preservation of, by boric 
acid, 36 

Cysticercus bonis, 127 

celluloses, 127 

Death-cup fungus, 22 

Deficiency diseases, n 

Derby food-poisoning outbreak, 

57 

"Devonshire colic," 28 

Digestibility of foods, 6 

Digestive capacity, 7 

Diphtheria, spread of, by milk, 
90 

Dried milk, 107; methods of 
preparation of, 107 ; uses of, 
107 ; superiority of, to con- 
densed milk, for infant feed- 
ing, 108; vitamines in, 108; 
a considerable future for, 108 

Drying of food, 61 

Dust, as vehicle of food con- 
tamination, 54 

Eggs, percentage composition 
of, 8; freezing of, 60 

Eijkmann, and cause of beri- 
beri, 15 

Enteric fever (see Typhoid 
fever) 

Ergotism, 131 

Excess of food, effects of, 12 

Faked flour, 136 

Fats, 4, 5 

Fish, freezing of, 60; canning 
of, 64 

Fishes, poisonous, 20 

Flies, contamination of food 
byj 52 ; prevention of breed- 
ing and destruction of, 54 



Flour, faked, 136; artificial 
bleaching of, 138; "im- 
provers " of, 140 

Flowering plants, poisonous, 22 

Fly fungus, 22 

Food, insufficiency of, effects of, 
10 j excess of, effects of, 
12 ; idiosyncrasy and, 
23 ; chemical additions 
to, 24; canned, 28; pre- 
served, 32 ; coloured, 38 ; 
bacterial diseases of, 
41 ; bacterial contamina- 
tion of, 48; absence of 
supervision of persons 
who handle, 51 ; con- 
tamination of, by flies, 
52; dust and, 54; cook- 
ing of, 55 ; drying of, 
61 ; smoking of, 62 ; 
preservation of, by 
sugar and salt, 62 ; can- 
ning of, 62 ; value of 
alcohol as, 71 

and Drugs Act, Sections 

III. and VI, of, vague- 
ness of, 37 

constituents, classification 

of, 3; calorie values of, 
5 ; quantities of, re- 
quired by average man, 

9 

* poisoning, outbreaks of, 

121 ; cause of, 122 ; usual 
history of, 124 

Foods, meat (see Meat foods) 

naturally poisonous, 20 

vegetable (see Vegetable 

foods) 

Freezing, effect of, on bacteria, 
58 ; of meat, 59 ; of fish and 
poultry, 60; of eggs, 60 

Fruits, canning of, 64 

acid, danger of canning 

of, 64 

Fugu, 21 

Fungi, poisonous, 22 



151 



Index 



Garget, 83 
Gin, 71 

Glass retainers of food, 32 
Globe fish, 21 
Gluten, 137 
Grading of milk, 99 
" Green oysters," 28 
Gut scraping, and bacterial con- 
tamination of meat, 117 

Hake, percentage composition 
of, 8 

Ham, percentage composition 
of, 8 

Herring, percentage composi- 
tion *of , 8 

Honey, percentage composition 
of, 8 

Hydatids, 128 

Ice-cream, composition of, in; 
and disease, 112; need for 
supervision of preparation 
and sale of, 112 

Idiosyncrasy, food and, 23 

Immunity to infection, 45 

Infant feeding, condensed milk 
and, 106; dried milk and, 
108 

Infantile mortality, milk and, 
96 

Infection, bacterial, suscepti- 
bility to, 45 ; immunity 
against, 45; dosage of, 47; 
paths of, 47 ; carriers of, 48 ; 
flies as transmitters of, 52 ; 
dust as vehicles of, 54 

Influenza, in Germany, under- 
feeding and, 11 

Inorganic salts, 3 

Insufficient food, effects of, 10 

Iron, food and, 3 

Jam, composition of, 8 

Lager beer, 70 
Lathyrism, 132 



Lathyrus cicera, 132 

sativus, 132 

Lead, in cider, 28 

Lentils, dried, percentage com- 
position of, 8 

Malt liquors, 69 ; food value of, 
72 

Margarine, percentage com- 
position of, 8 ; constituents of, 
no; nutritiousness of, no; 
absence of vitamines from, 
no 

Marmalade, percentage com- 
position of, 8 

Mastitis, in cows, 83 

Meat, chilling of, 59 ; freezing 
of, 59 5 drying of, 61 ; 
canning of, 63 

foods, prepared, liability 

of to bacterial con- 
tamination, 119; in- 
adequate control of pre- 
paration of, 120; out- 
breaks of disease due to, 
123 

pies, liability of, to bac- 

terial contamination, 
119; partial heating of, 
a danger, 120 

Mice, infection of meat, from, 
118 

Milk, percentage composition 
of, 8; effects of boiling 
of, 17; gross ineffective- 
ness of control over, 79 ; 
constituents of, 80 ; adul- 
teration of, 80; legal 
standard of, 81 ; in- 
adequacy of enactments 
relating to quality of, 
81 ; and undulant fever, 
82 ; and sore throat, 82 ; 
and tuberculosis, 84 ; 
and diphtheria, 90; and 
scarlet fever, 91 ; and 
typhoid fever, 91 ; con- 



152 



Index 



tamination of, in milk- 
ing, 93; straining of, 
94; contamination of, in 
transit, in milkshops and 
dwellings, 95 ; cooling 
of, 95; and infant 
mortality, 96 ; pasteuri- 
sation and sterilisation 
of, 99; grading of, 99; 
heedlessness of con- 
sumers of, 101 ; inade- 
quacy of new Act relat- 
ing to, 102 

Act, new, 102 

condensed (see Condensed 

milk) 

dried (see Dried milk) 

products, 103 

supply, pure, why still to 

seek, 97 ; measures neces- 
sary to secure, 98 

Milk-borne outbreaks of disease, 
characteristics of, 92 

Milking of cows, lack of cleanli- 
ness in, 93 

Milkshops, dirty, 95 

Ministry of Health, and food 
preservatives, 38 

Musca domestica, contamination 
of food by, 52 

Muscarine, 22 

Mussel-poisoning, symptoms of, 
142 ; obscurity as to cause of, 

Mussels, and typhoid fever, 147 
Mutton, percentage composition 

of, 8 
Mytilotoxin, and poisonous 

mussels, 142 

New York City, Department of 
Health of, and examination 
of persons who handle food, 

Nitrogen, food and, 4 

peroxide, and bleaching of 

flour, 138 



Oatmeal, percentage composi- 
tion of, 8 
Onion, percentage composition 

Oyster-beds, prohibition of, if 
liable to heavy sewage pollu- 
tion, 147 

Oysters, unseasonable, 142 ; 
"green," 143; cultivation of, 
in estuaries, 144; bacterial 
contamination of, from sew- 
age, 144; relaying of, in 
fattening beds, 146 ; outbreaks 
of typhoid fever due to, 146; 
purification of, 147; Public 
Health (Shell-fish) Regulations 
(1915) and, 147 

Pasteurisation of milk, 99 

Peas, dried, percentage com- 
position of, 8 

Phosphates, acid, in flour " im- 
provers,''' 140 

Phosphoric acid, in flour " im- 
provers," 140 

Poisons, cumulative, 30 

Pork, percentage composition 
of, 8; and trichinosis, 129 

Potato, percentage composition 
of, 8 

famine in Ireland, 11 

Potatoes, infected, 135 

Poultry, freezing of, 60 

Prepared meat foods, liability 
of, to bacterial contamination, 
119; outbreaks of disease due 
to, 123 

Preservation of food, 33 ; by 
drying or smoking, 33 ; by 
salt, sugar or vinegar, 33 ; by 
boric acid and other chemi- 
cals, 34 ; unsatisfactory state 
of law as to, 36 ; domestic, 65 

Protein, minimum amount of, 
required, 12 ; probable effects 
of excess of, 13 

Proteins, 4, 5 



153 



Index 



Ptomaine poisoning, so-called, 

121 

Public Health (Shell-fish) Regu- 
lations (1915), 147 

Puffers, 21 

Pulses, and scurvy, 16 

Putrefactive changes, food- 
poisoning and, 125 

Pyaemia, possible infection with, 
from food, 114 

Rabbits, percentage composi- 
tion of, 8 

Rats, infection of meat from, 118 

Refrigeration, effect of, on 
bacteria, 59 

Restaurants, insanitary kitchens 
of, 121 

Retainers of food, tin, 28 ; glass, 
32 

Rice, percentage composition of, 
8; polished, and beri-beri, 15 

Rickets, vitamines and, 18 

" Ropy " bread, 134 

Rum, 70 

Rye, and ergotism, 131 

Saccharomyces ellifsoideus , 68 

Salmon, percentage composition 
of, 8 

Salting of meat, in single-room 
slaughter-houses, bacterial con- 
tamination and, 1 18 

Sausage-making, in single-room 
slaughter-houses, bacterial con- 
tamination and, 118 

Scarlet fever, spread of, by 
milk, 91 

Scurvy, cause of, 16 

Septicaemia, possible infection 
with, from food, 114 

Shell-fish, canning of, 64; and 
disease, 141 ; idiosyncrasy 
and, 141. {See also Oysters; 
Mussels ; Cockles) 

Slaughter-house, bacterial con- 
tamination of food in, 117, 123 



Smoking of foods, 62 
Solanine, and potato poisoning, 

J 35 
Sore throat, milk and, 82 
Spaghetti, typhoid bacilli in, 

after cooking, 57 
Spirits, 70 
Spriggs's " Food and How to 

Save it," 8 
Starchy foods, infants and, 7 
Sterilisation of milk, 99 
Sturgeon, 21 
Sugar, percentage composition 

of, 8 
Sulphuric acid, as source of 

arsenic, 26 
Susceptibility to infection, 45 
Sweets, arsenic in, 26 

Tcenia echinococcus, 128 

medio canellata, 126 

solium, 127 

Tannic acid, in tea, 76; in 
coffee, jy 

Tea, effect of, upon health, 76 

Tetrodontidae, 20 

Theobromine, 78 

Tin, contamination of food 
with, 29; low toxicity of, 31 

Tinned foods {see Canned foods) 

a-Toxin, 22 

Trichina spiralis, 126 

Trichinosis, 129 

Tuberculosis, food and, 11 ; in 
pigs, 84 ; milk and, 84 ; 
meat and, 115 {see also 
Bovine tuberculosis) 

Order (1914), 88 

Turmeric, 39 

Turnip, percentage composition 
of, 8 

Typhoid fever, spread of, by 
milk, 91 ; bread and, 
133; watercress and, 
134; oysters and, 146; 
cockles and, 147 ; mussels 
and, 147 



154 



Index 



" Typhoid Mary," 50 
Typhus fever, and 
famine in Ireland, n 



potato 



Under-feeding, effects of, 10; 
typhus fever and, 11; in- 
fluenza in Germany and, 11 ; 
pre-war prevalence of, 12 

Undulant fever, milk and, 82 

Vegetable foods, carbohydrates 
and, 7 ; canning of, 64 ; 
adulterated, 136 

Vegetables, green, digestion 
and, 6; possible bacterial 
contamination of, while grow- 
ing, 134 

Vegetarian diet, 18; inferiority 
of, to mixed diet, 19 

Vetches, peas of, and lathyrism, 
132 



Vitamines, essential to nutri- 
tion, 13 ; and artificially pre- 
pared foods, 14; and beri- 
beri, 14; and scurvy, 16; 
destruction of, by prolonged 
heating, 16; pulses and, 16; 
multiple, 17; and milk, 17; 
and rickets, 17; destruction 
of, in canning, 66 

War bread, 137, 138 

Water, 3 

Watercress, and typhoid fever, 

i34 

Wheat flour, percentage com- 
position of, 8 

Whisky, 70 

Wines, making of, 68 ; fortified, 
69 

Yeasts, 68 



155 



Printed by 

Cassell & Company, Limited, La Belle Sauvage, 

London, E.C.4 

F20.619 



CO 



University of Toronto 
library 



% 

o 



DO NOT 

REMOVE 

THE 

CARD 

FROM 

THIS 

POCKET 




Acme Library Card Pocket 

Under Pat "Ref . Index File" 

Made by LIBRARY BUREAU 



