THE MENTAL HYGIENE 
OF CHILDHOOD 



VI 



MIND AND HEALTH SERIES 
Edited by H. Addington Bruce, A.M. 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE 
OF CHILDHOOD 



BY 



WILLIAM A. WHITE 

SUPERINTENDENT SAINT ELIZABETHS HOSPITAL 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 




BOSTON 

LITTLE, BROWN, AND COMPANY 

1919 



$ 

&G* 
yfi 



Copyright, 1919, 
BY LITTLE, BROWN, AND COMPANY. 



All rights reserved 



Norfooooti Press 
Set up and electrotyped by J. S. Gushing Co., Norwood, Mass., U.S.A. 



EDITORIAL INTRODUCTION 

PARENTS, teachers, school superintend- 
ents, school physicians, all who in any 
way have to do with the upbringing of 
the young, will find this an uncommonly 
helpful book, both in its specific recom- 
mendations and the sweep of its philosophic 
grasp. Not only does it emphasize cer- 
tain fundamental principles usually under- 
estimated or quite ignored in child train- 
ing, but it provides precisely the kind 
of survey of child nature most needed by 
those whose business it is to make educa- 
tion truly effective. 

As things now stand the great aims of 
education are again and again frustrated. 
The world abounds in human derelicts 
of all sorts men and women incompetent 
to earn a decent living, moral weaklings, 
nervous and mental wrecks, slaves of vice 
and crime. So numerous, in fact, have 



EDITORIAL INTRODUCTION 

the mentally and morally inefficient become 
that they constitute problems of the gravest 
social significance. And since in the main 
they are people who have passed through 
the educational mill in childhood and 
youth, it is evident either that the present 
educational system is somewhere at fault 
or that there are in these unhappy folk 
inborn defects which no system of educa- 
tion will suffice to overcome. 

Until recently the tendency was to sub- 
scribe to the latter view. Under the influ- 
ence of an unconscious assumption that 
accepted theories of education were sound, 
the blame for failure when failure occurred 
was thrown on the ancestry of the persons 
who failed. There was much talk of "de- 
generation" and of "the fatal influence 
of a poor heredity." Nor has the heredity 
bugaboo been wholly laid yet, as witness 
the activities of the so-called eugenic so- 
cieties that would improve the world by 
drastic action designed to prevent the 
"unfit" from "perpetuating their kind." 
Gradually, however, there has come to ever 
widening circles a realization that environ- 

vi 



EDITORIAL INTRODUCTION 

ment, and particularly the environment 
of the first years of life, may after all have 
most to do in determining the course of 
adult development, by repressing or accen- 
tuating inherited tendencies. And evidence 
is steadily accumulating to bear this out, 
as a result chiefly of patient individual 
analysis of the life histories of thousands 
of persons who in one way or another 
by nervous breakdown, by insanity, by 
vice addiction, by criminality have devi- 
ated strikingly from the normal. 

The author of this book is a distinguished 
representative of the highly trained special- 
ists who have devoted themselves to this 
task of individual analysis of deviates 
from the normal. For many years Doctor 
White has had exceptional opportunity 
to study closely large numbers of mental 
and moral incapables, in his work as 
superintendent of Saint Elizabeths Hospi- 
tal, the great Government institution at 
Washington for the mentally sick; and, 
before going to Saint Elizabeths, as a 
psychiatrist in New York, where he was 
assistant physician in the Binghamton 

vii 



EDITORIAL INTRODUCTION 

State Hospital from 1892 to 1903. The 
outcome of his researches has been to 
satisfy him as similar researches have 
satisfied all who have undertaken them 
with thoroughness that whatever the 
part played by heredity, the thing that 
supremely counts in the making or marring 
of a human life is the influences by which 
that life is surrounded in the formative 
years of childhood. As Doctor White ex- 
presses it, on a later page : 

"We are coming in these days to think 
of heredity as being much more restricted 
in its possibilities for limitation. It is 
true that many students of heredity believe 
that all sorts of mental qualities may be 
traced directly from the ancestors. Those 
physicians, however, who deal with the 
problems of mental illness see, on the 
contrary, these peculiarities passed on be- 
cause, as a part of the child's environment, 
they are impressed upon it during its 
developmental period. This view has been 
emphasized because it has been found 
possible to largely modify so many personal 
mental traits. Heredity as an explanation 
viii 



EDITORIAL INTRODUCTION 

is therefore looked upon somewhat askance 
because it serves to block efforts at im- 
provement. If a certain trait is hereditary, 
why ! that's the end of it. There is noth- 
ing to be done. So frequently, however, 
something can be done that this explana- 
tion is being more and more put aside as 
inadequate." 

In other words, conceding that training 
and environment can accomplish little in 
certain cases for example, in cases of 
feeblemindedness resultant from an inborn 
deficiency in brain-stuff training and en- 
vironment nevertheless are decisive in the 
lives of most people. What a man shall 
be depends, not so much on what his grand- 
father or great-grandfather was, as on 
the manner of his rearing. Consequently 
what is needed is clearer insight into the 
basic requirements of human nature in 
point both of training and environment. 
Doctor White's effort in the present volume 
is to assist to that clearer insight. In 
especial he would aid parents to know 
their children better than most parents 
now do, and through this knowledge to 

ix 



EDITORIAL INTRODUCTION 

build more securely the foundations of 
adult character. 

Above all he emphasizes as I myself 
have emphasized in my books on "Psychol- 
ogy and Parenthood" and "Handicaps 
of Childhood" the transcendent impor- 
tance of the first years and of the beginnings 
of education in the home. Infancy, he 
truly observes, "with all its budding possi- 
bilities, all its beginnings, trials, and failures, 
its blazing of trails and its fundamental 
formulations (time and space) is the most 
important period of life. This is the period 
when all the tendencies which are to be 
the motive forces in the future of the 
individual acquire their initial direction; 
it is the time when the foundations for 
the future character are laid." Again and 
again he warns that it is on the parents 
that chief responsibility rests for the equip- 
ping of their children to withstand the 
inevitable stresses and trials of the years 
to come and to lead healthy, happy, suc- 
cessful lives. 

Some things that he has to say will 
surprise, even startle parents. From cer- 



EDITORIAL INTRODUCTION 

tain of his findings particularly as re- 
gards the sexual life of childhood they 
will be inclined to dissent. And indeed 
it should be said that among the investigat- 
ing specialists themselves there is dif- 
ference of opinion as to the part played 
by the sex instinct in early life. But 
they are in entire agreement regarding 
the numerous training errors to which 
attention is called in the pages that follow, 
and the avoidance of which means so much 
to the future welfare of the child. To 
those who would understand why so many 
children grow up neurotic, cruel, selfish, 
obstinate, sullen, cowardly, weak-willed, 
lacking in initiative, bashful, diffident, or 
otherwise psychically handicapped ; and 
to those who, having children of their own, 
or being responsible as teachers or guard- 
ians for the upbringing of children, would 
most surely influence the children for good, 
Doctor White's book is to be heartily 
commended. 

H. ADDINGTON BRUCE. 



PREFACE 

THIS book neither purports to be an 
exhaustive account of the psychology of 
the child and of the relation between par- 
ents and children, nor does it aim at setting 
forth only the individual opinions of the 
author on these two subjects. It is in- 
tended to be an examination of them from 
the point of view which has recently been 
developed in psychology by that branch 
of it known as psycho-analysis, and sets 
forth the conclusions which have been 
reached by many investigators and which 
are deemed of importance in illuminating 
the subject in hand, namely, the mental 
hygiene of childhood. 

In presenting this subject of the mental 
hygiene of childhood I have believed that 
the best purpose would be served by em- 
phasizing two conclusions, one concern- 
ing the child and one concerning the family. 
The conclusion concerning the child is 
xiii 



PREFACE 

that, contrary to generally held opinions, 
it is possessed of a developing sexuality, 
the roots of which reach back into its 
infancy. The conclusion concerning the 
family is also contrary to the opinions 
regarding that institution commonly held, 
namely, that there reside within its organi- 
zation and as a part of its nature certain 
disruptive tendencies. I have felt that 
the recognition of these two facts was of 
the very first importance and have tried 
to set them forth in a way that would 
not only help to their understanding, but 
would also indicate how their recognition, 
and the incorporation of that recognition 
as a factor in regulating the life of the 
child, would be productive of far-reaching 
results to the advantage of the race. 

If this book serves its purpose in securing 
a hearing for these views, the reader may 
naturally feel a desire to pursue the subject 
further. I would suggest to such a reader 
the few works to which reference is made in 

the footnotes. 

WILLIAM A. WHITE. 
WASHINGTON, D.C., 
January, 1919. 

xiv 



CONTENTS 



CHAPTER PAQB 

EDITORIAL INTRODUCTION v 

PREFACE xiii 

I THE CHILD 1 

II THE FUNDAMENTAL INSTINCTS . . .19 
in THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE CHILD . . 33 
IV STAGES OF DEVELOPMENT .... 44 
V THE FAMILY SITUATION .... 64 
VI INTERMEDIARY SUMMARY .... 77 
VII PROBLEMS: EDUCATION PUNISHMENT . 90 
Vin FURTHER PROBLEMS: SEXUALITY RE- 
PRESSION PLAY 112 

IX THE FUNCTION OF THE PARENTS. . . 133 

X HISTORICAL BACKGROUND .... 152 

XI CONCLUSION 179 

INDEX 191 



xv 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE 
OF CHILDHOOD 

CHAPTER I 
The Child 

BEFORE entering upon the discus- 
sion of the real subject matter of 
this book, the mental hygiene of 
childhood, I feel that it will serve to assist 
in an appreciation of the principles in- 
volved if the reader to start with has a 
somewhat more comprehensive idea of the 
child than that usually held, of its rela- 
tion to the past by heredity, and of its 
promise for the future by the fullest pos- 
sible development of all of its powers as an 
adult. As a rule we do not look upon the 
child from such a broad platform, per- 
haps seeing only in some physical or men- 
tal qualities or characteristics traits which 
we recognize as family peculiarities, thus 
linking the child with its progenitors by 

1 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

heredity and seeing in ambition the meas- 
ure of future achievements. A broader 
outlook, however, is essential if the full 
possibilities of the subject of mental hy- 
giene are to be appreciated. 

In the first place, the child is generally 
considered to be an individual with all 
those characteristics which are implied by 
that term usually in a very limited appli- 
cation. It will be helpful to examine 
briefly the concept individual. The child 
as an individual would be thought of as 
not only physically separate and distinct 
from other individuals, but as having for 
the most part, aside from hereditary traits, 
only such bonds between it and them as 
those of passing interests or affections, 
which might at any time be dissolved. It 
is generally thought of as a small adult 
differing mostly in size but having the 
same sorts of ideas, the same sorts of nat- 
ural inclinations, and not infrequently being 
subject to the same responsibilities. To be 
sure, parents as a rule treat the child as in 
many ways different from an adult, and in 
recent years some of these considerations 



THE CHILD 

have had weight in certain well defined 
social tendencies, particularly such tend- 
encies as are responsible for the juvenile 
court. Here it is pretty clearly recognized 
that the responsibility of the child is not 
that of an adult, a fact which has been 
stated for many a year in the statutes of 
the land, but which has often not been 
adequately recognized in the actual dealing 
with children. The juvenile court does 
recognize this fact in a concrete way, and 
in addition the fact that the child has 
certain fundamental rights, a further fact 
that often shamefully lacks recognition. 
Adults are prone to see in children replicas 
of themselves and to think of the child's 
actions, as they do of those of other adults, 
as having explanations in thoughts and 
feelings of the same kind as would account 
for such actions in themselves. 1 These are 
indications of the direction of the more 
particular and grosser fallacies which cover 
over and obscure the proper recognition of 
childhood as it is. Let us examine the con- 

1 This is the principle of anthropomorphism, or as we would 
better term it to-day, identification, extended to the child. 

3 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

cept child somewhat more in detail and see 
whether we cannot come to a better under- 
standing of what in reality the child does 
represent. 

In the first place it is a well recognized 
fact in biology that life is passed on from 
generation to generation through the me- 
dium of a material substance which is 
known as the germ plasm. This is the 
substance which the parents contribute to 
the formation of the child, and which is 
started on its process of growth and de- 
velopment at the moment of impregnation. 
This substance not only is to be thought of 
as material contributed by the parents, but 
as material which tends to grow and de- 
velop into the likeness of the parents 
in other words, material which is like them. 
A simple illustration will demonstrate this. 
The germ plasm of a horse grows into a 
horse and not into a dog or a sheep or a 
cow. Similarly the germ plasm of a sheep 
grows into a sheep and not into a horse or 
a dog or a cow, and so the germ plasm of a 
man grows into the likeness of a man. 
Not only that, but the germ plasm of 

4 



THE CHILD 

particular parents tends to grow into a 
more or less composite likeness of them. 

And so to begin with, we see at once 
that the child is not a separate and dis- 
tinct individual, unrelated to other indi- 
viduals, but that there is a very material 
bond of physical relationship to its parents ; 
it is linked to them by the very material 
out of which it is formed and to the extent 
that this material contains within itself 
definite tendencies to develop in certain 
well defined directions to that extent it 
is circumscribed in its capacities for growth 
and development. If the germ plasm con- 
tains within itself the developmental neces- 
sity which makes blue eyes, the child will 
have blue eyes; just as other necessary 
tendencies reach their expression in the 
fact that it has hands and arms, feet and 
legs, stomach, heart, lungs, kidneys, and 
all the rest of its physical being. The child 
is, therefore, not only linked to its parents 
by a very material bond, but its relation- 
ship to them is one that clearly defines the 
possibilities of its growth and development 
in certain directions, limiting it very def- 

5 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

initely in some, limiting it less definitely 
in others, depending upon the degree and 
permanency of the organized tendencies. 
For example, every child will have the 
organs mentioned above. Whether its eyes 
shall be blue or brown is a matter not so 
definitely predictable, while whether it 
will be obstinate or vindictive in character 
or pliable and sweet-tempered is some- 
thing which is still less possible to fore- 
shadow and which may be dependent not 
at all upon its hereditary tendencies, as 
we shall see later. 

Looking at this whole matter more 
broadly we see that the child, through the 
germ plasm, which is the material from 
which it is formed, is not only related to 
its parents, but bearing in mind the theory 
of evolution, the theory that traces man's 
lineage back through ever increasing num- 
bers of ancestors, we will realize the much 
more significant fact that through his germ 
plasm man is linked indissolubly to his 
past from the beginnings of life. There- 
fore no adequate understanding of the 
child can be reached unless we have, to 

6 



THE CHILD 

begin with, an inventory of the powers, 
possibilities, and limitations with which the 
past has endowed it. 

In the same way that the parents of 
the child have passed on to it through 
their germ plasm an inheritance from the 
past, so the child, when it grows up and 
becomes an adult, becomes itself a parent 
and passes on through its germ plasm to 
its children an inheritance which links it, 
through them, with the future as through 
its parents it has been linked with the past. 

The child, therefore, we see cannot truly 
be considered as an individual in the sense 
in which that term is ordinarily used, that 
is, separate and distinct from other in- 
dividuals. It not only brings into the 
world an inheritance from the past, but 
later, as adult, passes that inheritance into 
the future, with perhaps additions which 
in its lifetime it may make to it. Hered- 
ity, for that is what we have been discuss- 
ing, is seen thus to furnish a qualifying 
aspect to the possibilities of growth and 
development. We are coming, in these 
days, however, to think of heredity as 

7 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

being much more restricted in its possibil- 
ities for limitation. It is true that many 
students of heredity believe that all sorts 
of mental qualities may be traced directly 
from the ancestors. Those physicians, 
however, who deal with the problems of 
mental illness see, on the contrary, these 
peculiarities passed on because, as a part 
of the child's environment, they are im- 
pressed upon it during its developmental 
period. This view has been emphasized 
because it has been found possible to 
largely modify so many personal mental 
traits. Heredity as an explanation is there- 
fore looked upon somewhat askance be- 
cause it serves to block efforts at improve- 
ment. , If a certain trait is hereditary, 
why ! that's the end of it. There is noth- 
ing to be done. So frequently, however, 
something can be done that this expla- 
nation is being more and more put aside as 
inadequate. Even the limitations of hered- 
ity are, moreover, not to be considered as 
altogether limiting. Heredity sees to it, 
so to speak, that the child is furnished with 
all of the characteristics of its species; in 

8 



THE CHILD 

other words, that it is true to type. This 
is the fundamental necessity, for any mate- 
rial departure from the type would make it 
impossible for that individual to become 
such an intimate member of the social 
group, the herd, as to be able to de- 
velop to best advantage. If, for example, 
it were some sort of freak it would be 
practically ostracized (perhaps to lead the 
life of a curiosity in some circus side show), 
while if it were still further from the aver- 
age, a monster for example, it might not 
be able to live at all. 

Heredity, therefore, provides for the 
essentials ; and in proportion to the neces- 
sity of any structure or quality are its pro- 
visions grounded in heredity, and by that 
same token, in proportion to its lack of 
necessity, is it left to the individual to 
develop it in his lifetime. Thus heart, 
lungs, stomach, etc., are absolutely neces- 
sary, and so they are provided for in the 
germ plasm and transmitted with great 
precision and certainty by heredity ; but 
the mood of an individual, optimistic or pes- 
simistic, his amiability or irascibleness, his 

9 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

general tendency to honesty or otherwise, 
all these and many more qualities are not 
essential for the preservation of the life of 
the individual, nor do they add to the as- 
surance of its transmittal to a future gen- 
eration; therefore they may well be left 
to the mercy of individual circumstances. 

I have indicated how the concept of the 
child as individual must be limited and 
qualified if we are to consider it from the 
standpoint of heredity. But this is not the 
only aspect of the child which if developed 
requires that we qualify the concept of it 
as individual. From the moment a child 
is born into the world until as an old man 
it passes out of it, it is constantly receiving 
all sorts of impressions from its environment, 
which are to be utilized for the purposes of 
its reactions upon it. This is easily under- 
stood with reference to the impressions that 
are gained through the sense organs. The 
child, after it is born, has to learn to see, 
to hear, to taste, to smell, and to be able to 
accurately locate the different portions of 
its body through the sensations which 
come to it from its muscles and joints. It 

10 



THE CHILD 

gets innumerable impressions through its 
ear which are known as sounds ; it learns 
to see, to distinguish the color and size and 
form of objects, and it learns through touch 
their temperature, their consistency, and 
through the muscle sense their weight, and 
through all of these senses combined their 
direction and their distance. And all this 
information with regard to the environment 
is absorbed and becomes a part of the in- 
dividual so that in its later life it knows it 
all intuitively. The environment, in other 
words, and in the sense indicated above, 
becomes absorbed and a part of the in- 
dividual. In these various aspects it is 
the child's stock in trade, the material in- 
formation upon which it acts, the basic 
factors from which it builds its conduct. 
In this sense, therefore, we can only speak 
of the individual and the environment as 
two separate and distinct things if we 
stand outside and superficially observe 
them. The moment we begin an investi- 
gation of their relations we see this inter- 
penetration of the individual by the envi- 
ronment, so that the lines of distinction be- 
ll 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

tween the two tend, the more we study the 
phenomena, to become less and less distinct. 

In the same way that the environment 
becomes a part of the individual so the 
individual in his influence upon the envi- 
ronment becomes a part of it. He reaches 
out from the confines of his physical body 
and acts upon the environment and shapes 
it to suit his purpose. He makes for 
himself clothing and he builds for himself a 
house, and to the extent that the clothing 
and the house are expressions of him they 
incorporate within themselves so much of 
his personality. Wherever, therefore, the 
individual touches the environment and 
molds it to his wish, he becomes to that 
extent a part of it. The interpenetration 
of environment and individual is mani- 
fested in both directions. 

It is, however, in the personal relation- 
ships of the individual, the relations which 
he builds up with those about him, that 
the sharp lines which are usually supposed 
to separate him from others are seen to 
fade away. From the moment that the 
child is born it begins to build up relations 

12 



THE CHILD 

of mutual affection, mutual dependence 
between itself, its parents, and the other 
members of the household. It is at once 
dependent upon them for care, protection, 
and love, and they are dependent upon it 
for all those subtle stimulations of affection 
which make up the emotional aspects of 
the parental instinct, and as it grows older 
and the circle of its associates enlarges it 
at once receives from them impressions 
which stimulate its reaction towards them 
and gives to them a corresponding series 
of impressions. The relation between the 
individual and his social surroundings is 
thus one of mutual interpenetration, as 
already described for the inanimate en- 
vironment. As with reference to the in- 
animate environment, too, the influence of 
the individual may extend over long periods 
of time. If he develops, for example, into 
a great builder his influence upon the 
environment may stand as a monument to 
his memory for generations. If he has 
become a great writer his books may be 
read for an hundred years. And so per- 
sonality tends to spread in ever widening 

13 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

circles, both in the present and into the 
future. The concept individual is seen 
again to require limitations and qualifica- 
tions. 

The various limitations and qualifications 
of the concept individual might be elab- 
orated indefinitely, but I have indicated 
them sufficiently for the purposes of this 
book. To my mind it is essential that in 
considering the general questions of the 
mental hygiene of childhood, we should 
begin with a reasonably adequate concep- 
tion of what after all a child is, of what it 
stands for, what its possibilities for de- 
velopment comprise. We cannot under- 
take to guide the footsteps of the child un- 
less we know whence it has come and 
whither it is going. We need to appreci- 
ate both the possibilities and the limita- 
tions that circumscribe our problem, and we 
need to know in dealing with a specific in- 
stance of conduct what it means in the 
general scheme of the larger whole before 
we attempt to change it in any way. It is 
as important not to interfere with the 
orderly progress of the unfolding of the 

14 



THE CHILD 

child personality as it is to guide it and 
endeavor to mold it in constructive direc- 
tions. It is only by appreciating its limita- 
tions that we can avoid the first, and by an 
appreciation of its possibilities that we can 
succeed in the second. 

The child then is to be considered as an 
individual, not in any strict etymological 
sense, but only subject to the qualifications 
I have briefly suggested. Linked indis- 
solubly though it may be with the past, it 
nevertheless presents infinite promise for 
the future. No two human beings are alike, 
and within that region wherein they differ 
the possibilities are truly infinite. The 
heritage from the past is but the background 
upon which these variations receive their 
value. For here as elsewhere to conform 
to the law is to be free. If the child did 
not start out reasonably true to type it 
would perish. Variations can only be 
erected upon a foundation which is stable 
because it is fundamentally like the rest 
of the race. 

Within this region of variation are all 
the possibilities for education, for modifica- 

15 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

tion of all sorts by experience, all the pos- 
sibilities for full health or disease, efficiency 
or uselessness. 

And finally, before the problem of the 
child can be intelligently and usefully ap- 
proached at all, it must be fully realized 
that while theoretically the differences be- 
tween child and adult are differences of 
more or less, that is, quantitative dif- 
ferences, still the practical results of 
these differences are such that it is quite 
impossible to approach the problems of 
the child from the adult point of view. The 
child at the moment of its birth is projected 
into a world with which we, as adults, have 
already become pretty well acquainted. 
It has to learn to see, to hear, to touch, to 
taste, to estimate size and distance, to ac- 
quire ideas of time and space, to distinguish 
persons and things, and to recognize their 
principal characters; yes, it even has to 
learn to recognize its own body, to learn 
what belongs to it, hands, feet, and the 
rest, as distinguished from other ob- 
jects. It has to learn all this, and much 
more that we already know and upon the 

16 



THE CHILD 

knowledge of which we base our every act. 
If we try to picture to ourselves the child 
world we realize at once that it is so dif- 
ferent from our world as hardly to be 
described in the same language. 

During the progress of the development 
of the child, its world and the adult's world 
come more and more nearly to correspond, 
but at any point along the way due allow- 
ance must be made for the differences. I 
shall frequently have to refer to the dis- 
tinctions as we proceed. 

Unfortunately the great discrepancies 
between the child world and the adult 
world too often only serve to make the 
child mysterious and so to deepen the gulf 
between it and the adult. This lack of 
understanding is at the bottom of much 
bad hygiene, not to say cruelty, and it is 
the rule largely because as adults we re- 
member practically nothing of our early 
years, only isolated instances of little im- 
portance and clothed in the imagery and 
understanding of later years. Our child- 
hood really succeeds in escaping us through 
the failure of memory. 

17 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

These years of infancy and childhood, 
however, are of enormous importance as 
being the developmental period of great- 
est significance in the history of the indi- 
vidual. Then, too, they represent for each 
individual what every one has to pass 
through from birth to adulthood and so 
become in the history of every child a pat- 
tern of all children. Not only this, but, as 
in accordance with a well known biological 
law each individual goes through in an 
abbreviated form in his development the 
history of the race, this period also epit- 
omizes the development of the race from 
primitive savagery. 

Our concept of the child then includes 
an appreciation of the heritage from the 
past, its relation to the present, and its 
promise for the future. That past includes 
not only its individual past but its racial 
past, and the future reaches forward to 
stop, perhaps never. 



18 



CHAPTER II 
The Fundamental Instincts 

MODERN psychology sees in con- 
duct a series of actions brought 
about for the purpose of chang- 
ing conditions to make them more in keep- 
ing with the desires of the individual. As 
evolution has taken place there has come 
about a closer and closer relation between 
man and his environment. For example : 
primitive man can only live in the tropics 
where it is warm; civilized man can ad- 
just himself to any temperature by chang- 
ing the quality and quantity of his clothes. 
This increasing power of adjustment to 
the environment is based upon a greater 
capacity for knowing it and then acting 
upon the basis of such knowledge. It is 
our sense organs, more particularly the 
eye, the ear, and the skin, that analyze 
the environment and, so to speak, report 
upon its different characteristics, but it is 

19 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

the interest back of the activities which 
causes us to focus our sense organs on our 
environment for the purpose of becoming 
more intimately acquainted with it. 1 

1 In the old academic psychology the attempt was made to 
classify and to describe the various aspects of consciousness 
largely as they appeared to the student by looking within, 
introspection. Various so-called faculties of the mind were in- 
vented as hypotheses to account for what was found and so the 
will, the intellect, the emotions were supposed to be at the back 
of mental phenomena, which latter were then examined minutely. 

To make this somewhat clearer : If I look at a piece of ice I 
see, or technically speaking, perceive it as to its form, color, dis- 
tance from me, and coldness. It is, for example, a block about a 
foot square, transparent or white, about three feet in front of 
me. It also looks cold, and hard, and brittle, and as if it were 
quite heavy. How do I arrive at all these conclusions respecting 
the block of ice? The color is directly seen as the result of a 
stimulation of the retina of the eye, the form also almost as 
directly seen; but the distance is a judgment arrived at as a 
result of the unconscious sensations which come to me from the 
muscles of my eyes which hold them in a certain position at 
which I obtain clear vision like the focusing of a pair of opera 
glasses. This position involves a certain angle at which the two 
eyes are inclined to each other among other things. The cold- 
ness, hardness, brittleness and weight are not, strictly speaking, 
seen at all but are inferences based upon the memory of previous 
experiences of actually touching, lifting, etc., bits of ice. 

All of these phenomena, it can readily be seen, are reducible to 
a common factor, namely sensation. The seeing of the color is 
due to direct sensations of color, the seeing of the distance is due 
to unconscious sensations of tension in the eye muscles that 
maintain the focus, the perception of coldness, weight, etc., 
were originally actual, now remembered sensations. In this way 

20 



THE FUNDAMENTAL INSTINCTS 

Of all the various aspects of the envi- 
ronment towards which our activities might 
be directed some few only are selected and 
become the objects of our interest. Why 
is this? What is the explanation of this 
selective interest ? To approach this ques- 
tion we must recognize the fundamental 
tendencies towards activities, the sum of 
which we call conduct. These tendencies 
we shall call instincts. 

the psychological phenomena were built up of combinations and 
recombinations of sensations, as chemical substances are built up 
of atoms. 

All this has been changed by the recent behavioristic school of 
psychologists who, instead of all this speculation, always ask 
with respect to the action of an individual, What is the person try- 
ing to do ? In other words they are not content with a purely 
descriptive psychology, but inquire what particular goal the con- 
duct is trying to reach. Thus a man goes into a store, takes some 
money out of his pocket, receives a loaf of bread, goes home, 
hands it to his wife, who cuts it in slices and puts it on the table. 
We say the man stopped on his way home and bought a loaf of 
bread for dinner. 

The psycho-analytic school go still further and see behind con- 
duct a wish. The man who took the bread home for dinner has 
back of his action a desire, a wish which brought about the re- 
sult observed. He wanted bread for dinner so he acted as he did 
and the wish was the motivating force back of his conduct. 

Instead, therefore, of the sensation being the unit of the psyche 
as described by the older psychologists, the wish has come to be 
thought of as the unit and back of every action we see a wish 
trying to bring something to pass. 

21 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

Different authors have reached different 
conclusions as to the number and char- 
acter of man's fundamental tendencies, 
that is, those tendencies to action which 
cannot be analyzed any further, which 
cannot be split up into simpler components. 
The most recent thought, however, tends to 
reduce them all to expressions of but two 
prime instincts which are characteristic, 
not only of man, but of all living things, 
namely, the self -preservative or ego-instinct 
and the race-preservative or sex-instinct. 
The various activities of the child will, 
therefore, all occur in response to one or 
other of these instincts, the operations of 
which are thus of the first importance to 
understand in order to understand the 
child, and it goes without saying that the 
child must be understood if any consistent 
and intelligent effort is to be made to 
direct and train it. These two instincts 
then supply the motive powers for con- 
duct. The immediate object of the one, 
the ego-instinct, is to gain domination over 
the environment ; the immediate object of 
the other, the sex instinct, is to gain pleas- 



THE FUNDAMENTAL INSTINCTS 

ure. I will elaborate and illustrate these 
principles somewhat further. 

THE SELF-PRESERVATIVE INSTINCT (EGO- 
INSTINCT) 

From the very first hours after birth 
this instinct manifests itself in the efforts 
(of course instinctive, not intentional) of 
the child to control the conditions and 
persons about it. Almost its first act is 
to cry at the first feeling of discomfort. 
The almost immediate effect of the crying 
is the relief of the discomfort by the mother 
or nurse, who seeks at once its causes. 
Inasmuch as crying is followed promptly 
by the relief of the discomfort, it is repeated 
each time the discomfort occurs. At first 
only bodily discomforts are so reacted to, 
but later the discomfort that comes from 
any unsatisfied desire is reacted to in 
this way. The instinctive tendency is 
to reproduce the sequence crying-relief. 
Thus children learn to cry if their requests 
are not instantly carried out. They cry 
when hungry, when they want candy, 
when they want the doll of brother or 

23 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

sister to play with, in short for every- 
thing they want, yes, even for the moon. 
As the child finds from experience that 
there are certain unchangeable conditions 
which cannot be modified by crying (the 
moon which is reached for and cried for 
remains inaccessible), there comes about a 
growing tendency to correct the feeling 
that everything wished for can be brought 
to pass by such means. The child learns 
more accurately its limitations and pos- 
sibilities. 

This instinct for domination, the instinct 
that leads each individual to try to attain 
the maximation of his ego, to try to control 
his environment, may manifest itself in 
many ways. As a tendency to develop 
our powers to the fullest it is a constructive 
power. It not infrequently, however, has 
other and less obvious purposes and some- 
times works to our disadvantage. The 
child, for example, who has been encour- 
aged in crying by always having its wants 
satisfied even when they were unreasonable 
gets so that it expects to go on living that 
way. It never learns to make theneces- 

24 



THE FUNDAMENTAL INSTINCTS 

sary exertion to obtain what it wants but 
just manifests its discomfort and expects 
instant relief. Such a bringing up makes 
for a weak character that later in life 
manifests itself by intense selfishness, and 
not only an unwillingness to make exer- 
tions to obtain the objects of desire but 
even perhaps the impossibility of making 
the necessary efforts to obtain them. On 
the contrary such persons expect that what 
they want will be forthcoming and look 
upon the possession of what they want as 
a natural right. When, therefore, some 
one else comes forward and furnishes it 
they may not even be thankful, for it is no 
more than they expected. 

On the other hand there are many per- 
sons who because of some defect feel them- 
selves inferior in the struggle to get on, and 
with them the instinct for dominance en- 
deavors to make up for this feeling of in- 
feriority; it tends to do away with the 
feeling of apprehension and lack of safety 
which such inferiority causes and thus be- 
comes a motive to overcome the inferiority 
and acquire safety the safety motive for 

25 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

conduct. For example, a person may be 
handicapped by a defect in speech. Such 
a handicap makes him feel inferior and 
unequal to others. As a result he devotes 
himself unreservedly to the effort to correct 
his speech defect. In this way not only 
may he acquire practically normal speech 
and so overcome his sense of inferiority and 
feeling of apprehension, but, because he 
turns his whole energy in this one direc- 
tion, he may actually become superior. 
Demosthenes the stammerer became the 
greatest orator of Greece. Similarly others 
develop superior powers in attempting to 
overcome defects. Many young men have 
taken up the study of medicine because 
they were themselves ill and wished both 
to cure themselves where others had failed 
and also to spare others the sufferings 
they had endured. 

So the ego-instinct goes far in its rami- 
fications from the first cry of discomfort 
which attempts to control the environment. 
In its wider reaches it comprises all of 
those activities which make for the en- 
largement and the power of the personality 
26 



THE FUNDAMENTAL INSTINCTS 

to adjust and control circumstances in the 
largest sense. At its lower levels it is rep- 
resented by such a characteristic as glut- 
tony, which seeks to find complete satis- 
faction in purely selfish indulgence, the 
control of conditions which minister only 
to selfish ends, to bodily satisfactions. Its 
best recognized adult activities have to do 
with the acquirement of wealth and posi- 
tion. Its uncorrected activities are es- 
sentially selfish and not infrequently they 
may be cruel and inhuman, but power once 
acquired may and should become an agent 
of great beneficence and does when united 
with those elements of character which 
make for helpful and constructive ends. 
Progress is away from purely selfish ends. 

THE RACE-PRESERVATIVE (SEXUAL,) 
INSTINCT 

The race-preservative instinct which has 
as its immediate object the perpetuation of 
the species and as its motive pleasure, is, 
in its ultimate ramifications, unselfish and 
in its aims and objects it is creative. How- 
ever, like the ego-instinct, it often goes 

27 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

awry and not infrequently works to the 
disadvantage of the individual and of the 
race. As with the ego -instinct I will il- 
lustrate the operation of the pleasure mo- 
tive which is back of the race-preservative 
instinct. 

The race-preservative instinct puts a 
premium of pleasure upon all activities 
which look towards such a relation of the 
sexes as leads to reproduction. This means 
not only those activities, courtship, 
which lead up to copulation but those fur- 
ther activities based upon love for the 
progeny which insure the adequate care 
and raising of the child until it is able to 
take its place in the world. All these 
latter activities are generally described as 
being due to the parental instinct. I in- 
clude it here under the head of the race- 
preservative instinct as it seems quite as 
important for the race that the pregnant 
woman should be cared for and after her 
the child as that impregnation should have 
taken place in the first instance. I thus 
also include all those activities under the 
designation sexual for the similar reason 

28 



THE FUNDAMENTAL INSTINCTS 

that they are all only further ramifica- 
tions of the primal instinct. 

In its various frustrations the sex in- 
stinct stops on the way of its creative evolu- 
tion and is satisfied with various auto- 
erotic, masturbatory activities which are 
calculated to furnish sensory pleasure to 
the individual, but at the same time to 
offer a means of escape from all the respon- 
sibilities which normally result from the 
activities of this instinct and also prevent 
those higher activities which alone furnish 
a full and complete expression for the per- 
sonality. Masturbation, for example, the 
type of all such activities, seeks to gain all 
the pleasure from the sexual act but would 
avoid all the responsibilities which nor- 
mally flow from coitus. The masturbator, 
therefore, is a self-sufficient person, who 
loves himself (selfish), his own body, who 
does not need another person of the op- 
posite sex to complete his fulfillment, and 
by the same token remains wrapped up in 
his own interest in himself, quite unable to 
give adequately in the social scheme of 
human relationships and therefore he re- 

29 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

mains seriously crippled in all creative 
directions. It is this crippling limitation 
of the personality which masturbation 
favors that is the greatest danger. The 
crippling of the personality, its deformation 
by self-indulgence in its period of formative 
growth is a serious handicap indeed and 
one that may never be overcome but may 
limit the individual in his possibilities 
throughout life. 

Many activities are distinctly sexual in 
this broader sense. For example, the tend- 
ency to dress exquisitely, to wear many at- 
tractive jewels, and to use paint and pow- 
der are all, in their fundamental purpose, 
unconsciously designed to attract the op- 
posite sex, but when they become ends in 
themselves they make for the development 
of such character traits as vanity, which is 
essentially the sign of a shallow person- 
ality. The same may be said of the over- 
development of all of the activities that 
make for personal luxury, which seeks for 
pleasure but which gives nothing and as- 
sumes no responsibilities. Aside from such 
concretely sexual examples all creative 

30 



THE FUNDAMENTAL INSTINCTS 

tendencies are in their ultimate analysis 
traceable to the sex (race-preservative) in- 
stinct. The work of the artist, the builder, 
the teacher, the writer, of all in fact who 
express themselves in their work and are 
creative in it is but the transformation of 
energies which have their origin in the 
specifically creative instinct for an act of 
a creative-sexual nature. 

These two instincts and these corre- 
sponding motives for conduct, namely, 
the domination motive or the "will to 
power" and the pleasure motive, are at 
the bottom of all conduct. I have given 
such illustrations as will make clear what 
is meant by them, what they are attempt- 
ing to attain. As a matter of fact, in a 
large proportion of human activities both 
motives are operative. For example, the 
accumulation of money, which is at bottom 
usually or at least often an ego-instinct 
activity, may have the race-preservative 
goal also, as where a man trys to accumu- 
late enough money so that he can afford to 
marry and support a family. I shall have 
constantly to refer to both of these motives 

31 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

in the succeeding pages, and when I do not 
mention them explicitly it will often be 
easy to see that their operation is implied 
from the results. 

The development of the personality make- 
up is dependent upon the compromises and 
solutions which are reached as these two 
motives sway back and forth in their efforts 
to gain control of the individual. The 
tendency, however, is always toward better 
adjustments, higher aims, and it is the func- 
tion of mental hygiene and education to 
free all the better, more constructive tend- 
encies from the crippling domination of 
instincts which, by their operation, would 
impair the fullest expression of the powers 
and possibilities of the individual. 



CHAPTER III 
The Development of the Child 

I WILL now briefly sketch the devel- 
opment of the child as it is impelled 
along its course by the drive of its 
primitive instincts. This will be a story 
of how it comes more and more to a com- 
mand of those forces which make for its 
own preservation and for the perpetuation 
of the race. It is a struggle which reaches 
its culmination in adulthood and then 
slowly declines in force, as the powers of 
the individual are weakened, and ends ul- 
timately in death. Death itself is, how- 
ever, by no means synonymous with fail- 
ure. It of course involves the destruction 
of the individual as such, but there are 
good reasons for believing that death is 
essential when life is looked at in the large 
and not as an individual problem. It 
would, for example, be impossible to trans- 
mit by a never ending stream of germ 

33 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

plasm a constantly increasing heritage to 
future generations because the earth would 
have long since developed its full quota of 
possible individuals that could be sup- 
ported upon it and reproduction would 
have to cease if all were immortal. Then 
too, if accidents occurred, as they do, such 
a population would soon come to be made 
up largely of the maimed and crippled. 
Death is necessary so that the world may 
be kept free for the best development of 
life upon it. Life and death are such op- 
posites as night and day without one 
the other would be impossible. 

Following birth the baby continues those 
apparently aimless movements of body and 
limbs which it already had commenced 
while still in its mother's body and which 
there gave rise to her feelings of "life." 
These movements, although apparently 
aimless, in reality have their great im- 
portance. As a result of them the baby 
begins to acquire a considerable series of 
sensory experiences : it strikes its limbs 
against objects which are hard and which 
are soft, it gets the sensation of coolness 

34 



THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE CHILD 

which follows waving its arms, through the 
air, and it touches and strikes against ob- 
jects which at the same time produce other 
sensory experiences as, for example, ob- 
jects which produce the simple visual im- 
pressions possible at this time. Finally 
the child receives sensations from the con- 
tracting muscles and from the moving 
joints. In all these myriad ways the 
child is building up a background of sen- 
sory experiences with the help of which it 
will form its world in which it is to live. 

In addition to these movements, all 
sorts of sensations assail the new born 
baby sensations which it experiences for 
the first time. Just as its world thus far 
described is made up of indefinite masses of 
soft and hard, warm and cool things and 
the like, so the other sensory experiences 
are equally indefinite. It cannot be said to 
see anything in the sense that we see but 
only to experience blotches of brightness or 
shadow, some of which strangely move 
across its field of vision. These patches of 
light and dark may be associated with its 
sensations of touch as it throws out its 

35 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

limbs and comes in contact with pillows or 
other objects. Sounds of all sorts assail 
its ears but it has no idea of their meaning 
or whence they come, but it sometimes 
happens that some of these sounds ema- 
nate from the patches of light and darkness 
and, too, from some of those that move. 
It happens that a certain soft, cooing sound 
issues from such an indefinite moving ob- 
ject that early becomes associated in the 
child's mind with the relief of discomfort, 
the mother, and that other harsher 
sounds issue from another object, the 
father, and when they do, other similar 
appearing things begin to move. This 
moving of objects (persons) following upon 
certain sounds (the voice of the father) 
seems like magic and is the child's first 
experience of power and authority which 
later come to be associated with the father. 
This primitive world of perceptions can 
thus be seen to be very simple compar- 
atively and very different from the world 
in which the adult lives. It differs in still 
other and more important particulars than 
those mentioned. I refer to the directions 

36 



THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE CHILD 

of the interests of the child. Before dis- 
cussing this aspect of the problem I will try 
briefly to convey what sort of concept I have 
in mind when I use the word "interest." 1 
I take it that what we call interest is the 
psychological aspect of what, for want of a 
better term, we might well call the creative 
energy of the individual that urges him 
along on the upward path of growth and 
development. We shall see as we progress 
that development proceeds contemporane- 
ously and in proportion as the interests 
of the individual branch out and become 
broader and deeper. That which distin- 
guishes the infant is its simple, undeveloped 
interests, which have only succeeded in 
building up a world of the simplest sensa- 
tions and sensation groups. This same 
interest, however, continues to push its 
way outward into the world of reality, and 
penetrating further and further, by pro- 
cesses at once of analysis and synthesis, 
builds up (becomes acquainted with) a 
world of ever increasing complexity, to 

1 Other terms are commonly used to express what I term in- 
terest, but I believe this word best for the purposes of this book. 

37 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

which it thus serves at the same time to 
relate the individual with more and more 
accuracy. Interest, then, conceived of in 
terms of energy, could be further thought of 
as representing energy under pressure which, 
by a never ending feeling out (analysis) 
of the environment, makes unremitting de- 
mands upon the child to go further and 
further in the process of relating itself to 
reality. 

This creative energy, then, manifesting 
itself psychologically as interest, pushes 
further and further into the environment 
and attaches itself to an ever increasing 
number of objects. Our sense organs, eyes, 
ears, skin, etc. (there are a large number of 
them, many more than the proverbial five), 
serve the purpose of analyzing the envi- 
ronment and so defining new objects for the 
attachment of our interest. The develop- 
ment of the individual could then well be 
followed and understood by a study of the 
objects of his interest as they increased in 
number and changed in character from year 
to year. 

And it is important to appreciate at this 
38 



THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE CHILD 

point that the driving forces back of the 
interest, that is the forces which direct the 
interest upon this object rather than upon 
that, are the primitive instincts of self- 
preservation and race-preservation hun- 
ger and sex. 

The ego-instinct shows itself very early 
in the attempts which are constant to 
dominate the conditions of the environment. 
Crying, as already indicated, is a means 
employed, not only as an expression of dis- 
comfort, but as a means to bring that dis- 
comfort to an end. Inasmuch as the child 
is surrounded by persons who love it and 
try to satisfy its every want, it develops all 
sorts of expressions and signs calculated to 
make them do its will. A sign of impa- 
tience when the rattle is dropped brings it 
at once back to its hand through the 
solicitous attention of the mother or nurse, 
who picks it up and restores it. Then the 
child throws the rattle down, charmed at 
the magic of its control, only to find the 
same sequence of events repeated. Such 
experiences develop a tyranny over the 
persons of its environment by His Majesty 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

the Baby, until finally, if for no other 
reason, as a result of the necessities in- 
herent in the relations themselves, there 
must come a break in the manifestations of 
its seemingly magic power. The nurse is 
too tired to respond, the realities tend to 
be borne in upon the mind of the child, 
and it thus is forced to seek other and 
better methods for bringing its desires to 
pass. It must perforce learn more and 
more of the real properties of persons and 
things and succeed or fail in molding them 
to its purpose in proportion to its ability to 
deal with them as they really are, rather 
than as it might wish them to be. Chil- 
dren who are humored and pampered in 
this period are prevented from acquiring 
this necessary experience and carry over 
into later periods of their development all 
of those attributes which were developed 
to command others and so become dom- 
ineering and selfish, and also are without 
that capacity for either appreciating or 
understanding the realities or adjusting 
themselves according to their limitations 
and demands. 

40 



THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE CHILD 

The love interests of the child undergo 
a similar development as manifested by the 
objects of its attachment. The love at 
first has an equally limited, even perhaps a 
more limited field for attachment, being 
limited to the person of the mother, who is 
practically the only person with whom the 
child comes in contact. The mother being 
the first love-object is therefore of su- 
preme importance in the love life of the in- 
dividual, the development of which ever re- 
mains conditioned by this first experience. 
The mother too as source of nutrition is 
also the first object towards which the 
hunger instinct is directed, and so in this 
sense is doubly important as a starting 
point for all those interests of the child 
which are directed outside its own body. 

As development proceeds, the changing 
aspects of the child's love interests can be 
seen by noting the increasing number and 
varying kind of love-objects upon which it 
is projected. After the mother come the 
father, brothers and sisters, uncles and 
aunts, grandparents, nurses, and in fact all 
who constitute the immediate household, 

41 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

Not only do the several members of the 
household come in for their share of the 
love interests of the child but the dogs and 
cats, horses and cows, pigs, chickens and 
other animals help share it, split it up, 
broaden its manifestations, and deepen the 
child's experience by stimulating its in- 
terests in an ever increasing number of 
directions. Nor are animate objects the 
only ones that come in for this treatment. 
The child ascribes life to the inanimate ob- 
jects of its environment and treats them ac- 
cordingly; this tendency is helped along 
by the first dolls, which are not only ani- 
mated by the projected interests of the 
child, but are given definite personalities, 
also representing the child's particular in- 
terests, and are treated accordingly, and 
so become, like real persons, objects by 
means of which the love interests of the 
child gain expression and develop by actual 
practice. In this way the love of the child 
is led from love-object to love-object over 
a path which constantly leads it along the 
way of better, deeper, more satisfying 
expression, more and more approaching 

42 



THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE CHILD 

the adult characteristics, and always in 
the direction of those activities which will 
ultimately lead to parenthood itself and 
the development of the parental, instinctive 
love activities and to that complete unfold- 
ing of the personality possibilities which 
are the expression of a well rounded char- 
acter which has been freed along the way 
from infantile drag-backs to development. 



43 



CHAPTER IV 
Stages of Development 

PERIOD OF INFANCY (1 TO 5 YEARS) 

DURING the first four years of life 
the infant yields unreservedly to 
its instinctive promptings, reaching 
out in all directions for new experiences and 
thus acquiring that background of infor- 
mation about the environment which is a 
precondition to further development. In 
addition to this the infant is also accu- 
mulating all those experiences which aid it 
in building up that concept of its own per- 
sonality which is such a basic factor in the 
subsequent problems of life. The infant 
of a few weeks old, for example, has no way 
of knowing that the foot or hand it sees 
before it belongs to itself, is a part of its 
own body, any more than is the chair, or 
the foot or hand of some one else. Chil- 
dren not infrequently try to grasp the hand 

44 



STAGES OF DEVELOPMENT 

they see with the same hand and actually 
cannot understand why, when they do so, 
the hand they were looking at disappears. 
Innumerable experiences of this and similar 
character are required before the infant 
learns just what are parts of its own body 
and what are not. Pain is an extremely 
useful experience in the progress of such 
knowledge, for the child learns over and 
over again, through painful experiences, the 
safe limit of its activities. 

During all this period the instinct of 
hunger and the pleasure motive for con- 
duct have unrestricted sway. Food is 
taken whenever hunger prompts and what- 
ever is at hand is swallowed. In fact many 
things which are not food run the risk of 
succumbing to this fate, for the mouth is a 
very important organ of touch at this time. 
Not only is everything that gets within 
the infant's grasp at once put into the 
mouth, but its own hands and feet are 
treated in the same way. Thus there 
comes about a series of double sensations 
which are valuable in helping the infant 
differentiate itself from the environment. 

M 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

For example, if it picks up its foot and 
puts it in its mouth it gets at once a sen- 
sation in the mouth and a sensation in the 
foot, an altogether different experience 
from putting, say, a rattle, in its mouth, 
in which instance the latter sort of expe- 
rience, sensation in the rattle, would 
be lacking. The difference between these 
two sorts of sensory experiences is very im- 
portant in distinguishing the "self" from 
the "not self." There are many other 
series of double sensations, the more im- 
portant of which are the combinations of 
touch and sight (touching things seen), 
touch and sound (touching things heard), 
touch and muscle sense (touching things 
reached for), which is really usually still 
more complicated, for the object is usually 
also seen or heard and the combination is 
therefore vision or sound, muscle sense 
and touch. 1 

The taking of food is purely instinctive, 
not at all guided by intelligent choice of 

1 See, for a particularly happy description of this aspect of de- 
velopment, Millicent Washburn Shinn : " The Biography of a 
Baby," Boston and New York, Houghton, Mifflin and Company, 
1900. 

46 



STAGES OF DEVELOPMENT 

even the simplest character, so that the 
young infant is wholly dependent upon its 
adult caretakers as to what it will get. If 
perchance they are ignorant it may fall 
ill, as it frequently does, for many of the 
diseases of the digestive apparatus in in- 
fants are due to the unintelligent giving of 
food by the mother; for example, the 
giving of starches before the development 
of the pancreas has made it possible for 
this class of foodstuffs to be digested. 

The control of conduct by the pleasure 
motive is absolute for this period of de- 
velopment. It is an absolutism, however, 
which is shortly to be lost, never to be 
regained. The infant is without all of 
those inhibitions to conduct which the 
adult always preserves in some measure. 
It is without shame, for instance, and if it 
suits its pleasure will kick off its clothing 
and revel in nakedness, it matters not who 
or how many may be present at the time. 
It is the same about the movements of the 
bowels and the passage of urine. These 
bodily functions are performed in response 
to the normal physiological urge without 

47 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

thought of time or place. The instinct is 
yielded to at once when it suits His Majesty 
without regard to others in any way what- 
ever. 

In the same way that the infant yields to 
the calls of nature in a natural and un- 
ashamed way, and shows no shame at its 
own nakedness, so it lacks other inhibitions 
to conduct and indulges its tendencies free 
from their influence. Curiosity about any- 
thing and everything that may be of in- 
terest is indulged without hesitation. 
Many children become interrogation marks, 
putting a constant stream of questions 
upon every imaginable subject, not a few 
of which may be seriously embarrassing to 
the adult. It is obvious that such an at- 
titude of mind properly dealt with affords 
a wonderful opportunity for teaching. 

The unqualified self-interest (selfishness) 
of the infant also comes to the fore undis- 
guised and unashamed. A desire for the 
toy of brother or sister is acted upon at 
once by taking it away from its possessor, 
with perhaps no hesitation in administer- 
ing a slap if necessary. Such assaults 

48 



STAGES OF DEVELOPMENT 

show besides a tendency to disregard the 
sufferings of others, for the crying that 
results from such conduct is unheeded. 
Then too it is quite usual for children really 
to like to cause suffering, a species of 
amusement that the household cat very 
frequently is called upon to serve. Ani- 
mals are frequently tortured, insects are 
killed and maimed, and even younger 
brothers and sisters come in for similar 
treatment. 

Jealousy is likewise a trait of this period 
of development. The infant craves affec- 
tion and a younger child that requires a 
great deal of attention from the mother is 
genuinely and openly hated because it ap- 
propriates the attentions of the mother 
which the older infant not only wants for 
itself but previous to the arrival of the new- 
comer did have almost exclusively. An- 
tagonism to the father may arise from sim- 
ilar causes because he takes the time and 
attention of the mother that the infant 
wants for itself. 

All of these interests of the child are 
self-centered, that is, are essentially selfish. 

49 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OP CHILDHOOD 

Just as it had to learn to distinguish its 
physical self from other objects about it, 
so it has to learn that there are other beings 
who have similar sensations, feelings, and 
ideas. At first the infant has no concep- 
tion of other selves and has slowly to ac- 
quire this knowledge, just as it had to ac- 
quire a knowledge of its physical self as 
distinguished from other objects, by ex- 
perience much of which is painful. If it 
has taken a toy from another child and 
incidentally slapped its face, why that was 
only in the course of fulfilling its wish ; 
but when some day another child treats it 
in that way, takes its toy away and slaps 
its face, then that is an experience of quite 
a different sort. Contacts with others 
constantly reflect these others as having 
the same sorts of feelings and desires and 
the same needs and means for satisfying 
them. Repeated conflicts of desires with 
other children tend to build up a concept of 
other selves like it, and if the conflicts are 
with others on the average of equal powers 
there then begins that appreciation of 
others which later grows into such a mutual 

50 



STAGES OF DEVELOPMENT 

respect, understanding, and sympathy as 
are at the basis of that capacity for mutual 
concessions which make human society 
possible. 

Much of the activities of the infant, 
such as its unconcern at showing itself 
naked and the direction of its curiosity, 
are of a nature that later is recognized as 
sexual and during this period there is apt 
to be a short period of masturbatory ac- 
tivities. The curiosity is frequently dis- 
played about sex matters, in fact the great 
question of these years, made emphatic 
by an addition to the family or to a neigh- 
bor's family, is "Where do babies come 
from?" Many are the theories formu- 
lated, and the explanations of the parents 
that the stork or the doctor brings them 
are seldom accepted for long. 

All of the conduct of the infant is self- 
centered, frankly and openly selfish, un- 
ashamed and often cruel and of a char- 
acter which would be called in an adult 
immoral and antisocial. In the child, how- 
ever, it is better termed amoral and asocial, 
as nothing corresponding to a moral sense 

51 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

or to social qualities can as yet be said to 
have developed. They are in the making. 
This period of infancy with all its bud- 
ding possibilities, all its beginnings, trials, 
and failures, its blazing of trails and its 
fundamental formulations (time and space) 
is the most important period of life. This 
is the period when all the tendencies which 
are to be the motive forces in the future 
history of the individual acquire their initial 
direction; it is the time when the founda- 
tions for the future character are laid. As 
previously indicated (Chapter I), heredity 
is coming to be less and less of a satisfac- 
tory explanation for character traits be- 
cause, in the first place, such traits belong 
to that region which may reasonably be sup- 
posed to be modifiable and not so neces- 
sary in its detailed make-up as to require 
fixation by heredity; and in the second 
place, because so many character traits 
can actually be modified by treatment, 
while an explanation resting in heredity 
would close the door to all effort. The 
psycho-analyst sees in these first four 
years, or thereabouts, of infancy the period 



STAGES OF DEVELOPMENT 

when the fundamentals of character are 
laid down and therefore sees in these years 
both the material for therapeutic effort 
and the golden period of educational pos- 
sibilities. I shall have frequently to refer 
to this period and its characteristics. 

THE LATENCY PERIOD (5 YEARS TO PUBERTY) 

The amoral, asocial child of the period 
of infancy, guided solely by its instincts, 
undergoes changes at about five years of 
age, the object of which is to bring the 
instincts into the service of cultural aims 
(moral and social). How much these 
changes are inherently necessary and thus 
are independent of outside influences and 
how much such influences are responsible 
for them it is impossible to state because all 
children seem to undergo them, but, too, all 
children are surrounded by similar condi- 
tions that make such changes under- 
standable. 

These changes consist in general in the 
suppression, or more technically, the re- 
pression of the frank, instinctive tendencies, 
an effort to disregard their promptings, and 

53 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

a distinct effort to fit into conventional 
requirements and make the accepted moral 
and social standards goals for conduct. 
This involves an about face for the infant 
who has hitherto followed only selfish aims. 
The conduct which has been natural to 
him up to this time is now no longer in- 
dulged in, at least not openly, and if per- 
chance he is discovered in any small self- 
indulgences his reaction is one of shame. 
To his nakedness, his overt sexual activi- 
ties, his curiosity in forbidden subjects, he 
reacts with shame if in the presence of 
others, or all conduct along such lines is 
effectively repressed so that it does not 
take place at all. Similarly with such 
pleasure as grows out of the infant's inter- 
est in its bowel movement and in urination. 
There now arises in place of such pleasure 
an actual disgust. 

Shame and disgust are largely condi- 
tioned if not actually caused by the con- 
stantly repeated reactions of the adults in 
the infant's immediate environment. They 
invariably call the child to account for 
conduct which is not in keeping with their 

54 



STAGES OF DEVELOPMENT 

standards and by their exclamations and 
remarks indicate that it is either conduct 
to be ashamed of, or else that it is disgust- 
ing. Shame thus grows up, more espe- 
cially as the typical reaction to matters 
sexual, and disgust as the typical reaction 
to things that are dirty, particularly that 
pertain to the functions and products of 
excretion. However, these two reactions 
are not mutually exclusive, as a moment's 
thought will prove : disgust for sexual 
activities, for example, being a not uncom- 
mon form of reaction. 

Shame and disgust then become more 
or less effectual barriers erected to dam 
the activities of the instincts in certain 
directions. The problem of the next few 
years, in fact, the main problem of the rest 
of life, is to find other means of exit for the 
energies thus arrested, means of activity 
which shall be useful and socially accept- 
able. 

The strength of these reactions (shame 
and disgust) is rendered necessary by the 
strength of the tendencies which they have 
to hold in check. Any less vigorous re- 

55 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

actions would hardly succeed. The child, 
and for that matter the adult, is never 
any too far from the possibilities of tabooed 
conduct of the character indicated and so 
is never safe unless he has at his disposal 
powerful emotional reactions with which 
to combat those tendencies which other- 
wise would call it forth. The instinctive 
tendencies still represent desires, of course 
become unconscious by repression but 
nevertheless desires. Shame and disgust 
therefore are for the purpose of repressing 
activities (sexual) which the individual 
(child) wishes to indulge in. The repres- 
sion has to be effected by strong counter 
feelings and the strength of the desires is 
thus seen to be in proportion to the degree 
of shame or disgust called upon to keep 
them effectually under control. 

During the latency period, then, the 
selfish, instinctive tendencies drop into the 
background. They are by no means elim- 
inated, however. They continue to exist 
but are kept out of vision by a system of 
espionage repression. As strong and as 
effective as this repression may be, however, 

56 



STAGES OF DEVELOPMENT 

it is seldom strong enough to prevent at 
least an occasional breaking through when 
some one, mayhap, of the old, familiar ac- 
tivities outcrops in the conduct. Mastur- 
batory activities are not uncommon, cru- 
elty reactions often occur, as of course do 
most of the other types of conduct. Ex- 
hibitionism is not apt to manifest itself in 
the crude form of nakedness, while curi- 
osity commonly continues, but usually in 
a veiled and somewhat obscured form. 

PERIOD OF PUBERTY (ABOUT 15 YEARS) 

At the onset of puberty there is a great 
revolution in the affective life of the child. 
Particularly the sexual instinct comes again 
to the fore with redoubled energy and de- 
mands recognition. Not infrequently it is 
unable to find adequate outlets in accept- 
able forms of conduct and a considerable 
period of masturbatory activity is apt to 
characterize this period. This activity, 
however, if not excessive and prolonged, has 
not the serious significance ordinarily given 
to it (Chapter II). The various pleasure 
activities of the period of infancy (ex- 

57 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

hibitionism, curiosity, etc.) may be reacti- 
vated now, with a special sexual coloring; 
they afford, as it were, already existing 
points of attachment for the more greatly 
enhanced sexual feelings which thus use 
them to gain an outlet in expression. Such 
avenues of expression, having been suc- 
cessfully used before, now lend themselves 
anew to the service of the child whose 
greatly increased necessities for expression, 
because of the outcrop of the sexual feel- 
ings, require all possible avenues to be uti- 
lized. In thus being used again, however, 
they acquire, are loaded with, the sexual 
feeling of the period. The higher aims 
of the individual, when blocked in their 
efforts at expression, turn back and seek 
those lower levels that, in an earlier 
period of development, served as channels 
of outlet (expression). 

All of these activities, however, are re- 
gressive in character ; that is, they are 
reanimations of infantile pleasure activities 
under the necessity for outlet created by the 
greatly enhanced sexual urge. 

The important progressive change in the 
58 



STAGES OF DEVELOPMENT 

conduct of the child which is also condi- 
tioned by the great increase in the sexual 
energies is the development of interest in 
the opposite sex and the growth of all that 
series of activities which are grouped to- 
gether under the designation courtship. 
This is the beginning in the child of that 
interest in others which leads on to mar- 
riage, parenthood, the development of the 
so-called parental instinct, the mainte- 
nance of a family, and the education of 
children of its own and their projection into 
the world, even as it was educated in the 
family milieu and afterwards helped to 
establish itself in the world upon its own 
feet. 

Inasmuch, however, as frank sexual ex- 
periences at this age of sexual awakening 
are still not permissible the instinctive 
tendencies towards others of the opposite 
sex have still to find a sublimated 1 form of 

1 By sublimation is meant that process by which a given form 
of instinctive tendency is diverted from its immediate aim into 
activities which, while socially acceptable, are also more or less 
adequate substitutions for the acts instinctively desired. For 
example, women find great satisfaction as teachers, the relation 
of teacher and children being a substitution for the really desired 
relation of mother and child. 

59 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

outlet. During this period all of the social 
activities are brought into play (games, 
parties, dances, picnics, etc.) still further to 
develop those relations between children 
which will more and more fit them for the 
coming experiences of courtship, love, mar- 
riage and parenthood, and, too, lead on to 
better and better social adjustments which 
in later life will make for broad qualities 
of citizenship. 

Not only are the heterosexual activities 
thus led into ever better adjustment, but 
other forms of sublimation are taking place. 
The ego-instincts are also being socialized. 
The absolute selfishness of the infant now 
has to give way to the demands of others 
to the end of harmony; and in order that 
certain desired activities (games) may be 
carried out, gluttony, uncleanliness, dis- 
orderlinesses of all sorts have to be brought 
into line to serve ends which are more 
desirable, therefore they give way. 

In the development of the sex instinct sev- 
eral well defined stages are passed through. 
At first the child is interested solely in its 
own body, its own sensations, it is auto- 

60 



STAGES OF DEVELOPMENT 

erotic. This is the period of frank interest 
in nakedness, urination, etc., the period 
of infancy. Later it develops an interest 
(love) for others. This love, however, first 
goes to others most like itself, that is of 
the same sex and so is homosexual. This 
is the stage of Narcissism. 1 Then finally 
comes that development of object-love 
which desires a beloved person of the op- 
posite sex and so is heterosexual. The 
logic of this progression is apparent. The 
child can only get from a state of being 
in love with itself to being in love with 
some one else of the opposite sex by passing 
through an intermediary stage of being in 
love with some one else but some one like 
itself, that is of the same sex (homosexual). 
The individual who is stopped or delayed 
at this period of development is prevented 
from making those wider, larger adjust- 
ments which are essential to a rounded 
out biological career. r 

While it will not be the object of this 
book to enter at length into the subject 

1 So named after the Greek legend of Narcissus who fell in love 
with his own reflection in the pool. 

61 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

of the aberrations of the sex instinct, I 
do feel the necessity of calling attention 
to some of the more obvious ones. The 
homosexual tendency is one of the most 
common, and results because of a failure 
to pass this point in development safely. 
The period of puberty, while giving full 
play to the heterosexual tendencies as al- 
ready indicated, should equally stress the 
homosexual sublimations. The boy should 
have the opportunities of athletics, of boys' 
clubs and games, and thus get full expres- 
sion on this side rather than carry into adult 
life an unfulfilled component which will al- 
ways be seeking expression. Similarly the 
girl should have opportunities in girls' 
organizations. In this way the periods of 
puberty and adolescence can be seen to be 
periods of development during which both 
the ego and sex instincts are gaining socially 
acceptable forms of expression which more 
and more fit the child for its place in the 
world as a member of the herd and as a 
parent. 

All persons have both homosexual and 
heterosexual components in their make-up 

62 



STAGES OF DEVELOPMENT 

and both have to be given adequate and 
proper expression. We shall see later that 
the Narcissistic component is capable of 
great usefulness in formulating an ego- 
ideal. That is an ideal for self. It is 
only necessary that these two compo- 
nents should be properly proportioned and 
that the homosexual should drop into its 
place and be sublimated to such useful 
ends as the formulation of a valuable ego- 
ideal and also as an incentive to social 
activities of a constructive character. Much 
of the best social science work is done un- 
der the influence of a sublimated homosex- 
ual ideal. 



63 



CHAPTER V 
The Family Situation 

I HAVE now sketched the development 
of the child from several different 
angles and very briefly indicated the 
course that development takes, the direc- 
tion in which it is headed, and the way, in 
general, in which the material along the 
way is dealt with. I now propose, in this 
chapter, to take up a discussion of the con- 
crete family situation, for this is the com- 
mon factor in all children's lives and the 
most important single factor in the part 
it plays in the subsequent history of the 
child in fixing those characteristics which 
go into the structure of the personality. 

By the members of the family I mean 
those persons in the family situation that 
come into immediate contact with the 
child. They include the parents, brothers 
and sisters, nurses, sometimes one or more 
of the grandparents, uncles and aunts, and 

64 



THE FAMILY SITUATION 

servants. Of course there may be others, 
particularly step-parents or foster parents. 

The great importance of the family lies 
in the fact that the persons composing it 
are the first human objectives of the child's 
interest and love and that that interest and 
love must of necessity receive their first 
set, first impression, first form as a result 
of these first experiences. The love of the 
child takes its form, its quality, from the 
nature of the response it meets in these 
others. A love which is fully returned 
gives complete satisfaction. A love which 
is not returned at all gives no satisfaction 
but uneasiness, discomfort, even hate, and 
a love which is partly returned may yield 
any possible intermediate degree of satis- 
faction which may vary in both quality and 
quantity in any degree, depending upon 
the finer personal adjustments arrived at. 
It is easy, therefore, to appreciate the 
supreme importance of the first expe- 
riences for the future and how they condi- 
tion what that future must be. 

In the first place love which goes out 
from the child to the parent has a sex 

65 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

preference the little boy preferring the 
mother and the little girl preferring the 
father. This is not only true, but it is 
equally true of the parents that they quite 
generally prefer the child of the sex the 
opposite of their own. This attachment 
to the parent is obviously the most im- 
portant of all the chili's attachments 
because it is of necessity the first, and all 
other loves, for instance, of brothers and 
sisters, tend to be pressed into the form 
which this first experience takes. Further 
than this there is a distinct priority and 
emphasis upon the love for the mother, no 
matter what the sex of the child, because 
of her necessary position (she is the first to 
minister to the helpless infant), and also 
because of her very much more intimate 
and constant relations with it during its 
early years. 

For the infant the father and mother 
are marvelously wonderful at first, because 
they are the only persons in its experience 
and therefore do not suffer by comparison 
with others. Later this supremacy is main- 
tained for a time when others come also to 

66 



THE FAMILY SITUATION 

be known but is finally lost when expe- 
rience has demonstrated that there are 
greater and more powerful men than the 
father, and younger and more beautiful 
women than the mother. At first, that is 
to say, all other people receive their value 
in the estimation of the child by compari- 
son with the incomparable parents, the 
father, the greatest and most powerful of 
men, the mother, the sweetest and most 
beautiful of women. 

In this apparently ideal situation there 
are bound soon to come disturbing elements. 
Such a disturbing element is very defi- 
nitely added in the person of a new child. 
The child's attitude towards a newly ar- 
rived baby is well known to frequently be 
anything but one of unalloyed pleasure. 
Open manifestations of jealousy and hos- 
tility are not uncommon. I recall being 
called hurriedly to see a new-born baby who 
had been violently attacked by one of the 
other children of the family (aged about 
three years) during a few moments' ab- 
sence of the mother. The older child had 
freely pounded the face of the baby with 

67 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

its father's shaving brush and then appar- 
ently tried to jab its eyes out with a pin 
taken from the mother's hat. The baby's 
face was covered with blood when the 
mother returned, one eye had been slightly 
injured and timely intervention alone prob- 
ably spared the baby from the most serious 
consequences. 

Exhibitions of jealousy, though fortu- 
nately not so serious as that just recorded, 
are common enough as between the differ- 
ent children. It is not so generally recog- 
nized, however, that jealousy also exists 
towards the parents, particularly toward 
the parent of the same sex. Being more 
particularly attracted towards the parent 
of the opposite sex the child is jealous of 
the other parent. The boy, for example, 
who loves his mother is jealous of his father 
because the father comes in for so much 
attention and affection from the mother 
that the child feels should by rights be his. 

Coupled with this attraction for the par- 
ent of the opposite sex and jealousy of the 
parent of the same sex, is also a tendency 
to emulate, to try to be like the parent of 



THE FAMILY SITUATION 

the same sex. One of the fondest desires 
of the child is to grow up, to be big, the 
little boy to be like father, the little girl 
like mother. In this way the child identi- 
fies itself with the parent of the same sex, 
takes his or her place, as it were, in the af- 
fections of the other parent. The child 
thus succeeds in accomplishing by indirec- 
tion what it could not otherwise succeed 
in doing. These emotional relations to the 
parents are very important, the child often 
developing character traits directly de- 
pendent upon them. The character of the 
parent taken as a type is thus of prime im- 
portance, as is also the character of the 
parent who brings out all the antagonistic 
attitudes of the child. It depends much 
upon them what the future of the child is 
to be. A father who is a tyrant in the 
household may easily cause such a revul- 
sion of feeling in the child that later he is 
unable to yield to any authority whatever, 
but on the contrary arrays himself against 
authority wherever he may find it, in the 
person of the teacher, in the shape of laws 
and customs, even in the form of the ab- 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

stract concept of the state. It is of such 
material that the anarchist is made. A 
father, on the contrary, who exercises his 
authority in a reasonable and successful 
way may become a model of the greatest 
usefulness in shaping the career of his 
children. 

Not infrequently, too, an invalided par- 
ent may be taken as a type and in the later 
life of the child all the parent's weaknesses 
and even illnesses may be reproduced in a 
way that is no less than startling, a fact 
which has usually been ascribed to hered- 
ity but which is, often at least, more prop- 
erly ascribed to this mechanism of iden- 
tification. It is remarkable how frequently 
one sees character traits repeating them- 
selves in children ; often at the corre- 
sponding period in life. Suicide is a well 
known example of conduct repeated in 
succeeding generations. 

Whatever the character of the parents, 
however, the child cannot continue to 
keep the idealistic picture formed in its 
infancy of the father as the greatest and 
most powerful of men and the mother as 

70 



THE FAMILY SITUATION 

the sweetest and most beautiful of women. 
Sooner or later it must compare its parents 
with other men and women and in that 
comparison there are bound to develop 
points in which the parents, no matter how 
excellent they may be, show to disad- 
vantage. This period of disillusionment is 
reacted to differently by different children, 
but in the main and generally along the 
line of attempting to restore the lost il- 
lusions. In response to this desire the 
child builds up phantasies of being the 
child of very important or rich parents, or 
parents of great power, or perhaps be- 
longing to royalty. Such dreams are 
common among children and often enter 
into their play. Later on, in the mental 
disorders of adolescence, they come to the 
fore very prominently. The main point is 
that an analysis of the royal parents shows 
that they possess the same qualities as the 
real ones so that the phantasy has as its 
object, not the demeaning of the parents, 
but their exaltation. It is an effort to 
make them again as wonderful as they 
were in the period of infancy. The effort 

71 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

is to recall the sense of satisfaction and 
safety of the golden years gone by. 

All of the various attitudes towards the 
parents are of importance to bear in mind 
because they are repeated over and over 
again, with certain variations, in the child's 
attitude towards others, particularly other 
member of the family milieu. The brothers 
and sisters attract and repel the love in- 
terests of the child in quite the same way 
as the parents, while aunts and uncles, and 
nurses, step-parents, and foster parents, be- 
come surrogates, substitutes in the affec- 
tions of the child for the real parents. 

One can understand these relations the 
better when the love interests of the child 
are thought of in terms of feeling, which is 
projected upon first one and then another 
person, but tending always to preserve its 
original form, which was shaped in relation to 
the first love experiences with the parents. 

In relation to the grandparents the child 
is most apt to come first into relation with 
death. One of the old people dies and the 
only thing that results in the experience of 
the child is that they do not come back. 

72 



THE FAMILY SITUATION 

This experience, that people go away and 
do not come back, is woven into the child's 
feelings of jealousy and animosity against 
its rivals. The little boy, for example, 
will wish that father might die so that he 
may possess wholly the love of his dear 
mother. Similarly with brothers and other 
antagonists. The death wish, however, 
can be seen to have none of the adult values 
but is only a way the child has of express- 
ing his desire for possession free from the 
intrusion of rivals. 

This brief account of the relations in 
feeling between the child and the different 
members of the family gives a very dif- 
ferent picture from that ordinarily drawn 
and presents a very different state of affairs 
from that ordinarily thought to exist, in 
spite of the fact that evidence to support 
this view is found in the almost universal 
conflicts of parents and children and be- 
tween the children themselves. All of 
which only goes to show how strong is the 
desire for things as we believe they were 
in that golden past which we always try 
again to realize in the present. 

73 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

The reason for these mutual antagonisms 
is not far to seek. It is in the urgent neces- 
sity for emancipation in the face of the 
serious results which are sure to follow if 
it is not attained. Herein lies one of the 
most, if not the most important lesson in 
the mental hygiene of childhood. Namely, 
that the whole process of the child's de- 
velopment has as its goal its emancipation 
from the parents, so that its own life may 
be free to develop to the fullest without the 
hindrances that are inevitable if there con- 
tinues an attachment to the home that is 
in the nature of a dependence upon it. A 
full, free development of the personality is 
only possible if it is free from a crippling 
dependence of any sort. From this it 
follows that the problem of the parents in 
guiding that development can be best met 
only in the full consciousness of the object 
to be attained and the possession of enough 
love on their part to work unconditionally 
to that end. 

The parent-child relation is in general 
conceived of as containing all that there is 
beautiful, while the eyes are closed to those 

74 



THE FAMILY SITUATION 

features of conflict which I have brought 
out. This is but a natural defense reac- 
tion against the disagreeable. It will, how- 
ever, be instructive to analyze still further 
this relationship, particularly in respect to 
those disharmonies that are of such sig- 
nificance. 

In the first place, I have already indicated 
how the child seeks in fancy to retain the 
infantile images of its parents even to the 
extent, in pathological cases, of renouncing 
his real parents altogether and putting in 
their place, persons of royalty, of great 
power and wealth. In this way it seeks for 
that background of safety, comfort, free- 
dom from the necessity for effort which is 
always beckoning to us and trying to en- 
snare us by its wiles to lay down our sev- 
eral tasks and accept indolence and ir- 
responsibility. It is the dragback of those 
days when as infants we had but to cry 
for a thing to have it placed in our hands 
by some apparently magic power. It is 
hard, nay, quite impossible, to give up 
yearning for that golden period of omnipo- 
tence. The parent images, formed in in- 

75 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

fancy, are the ghosts out of the past that 
beckon. It is emancipation from these 
ghosts which is the object of education, the 
goal of development. 

On the other hand, from the standpoint 
of the parents : They frequently forget the 
goal of development, indeed they do not 
even know it, and so are unable from lack 
of knowledge to help the child along the 
path as they should ; for real help involves 
a preparation of the child to renounce 
them, as it were, to be able to get along 
without them, without all those ministra- 
tions which have become so dear to them, 
so sweet to give. Thus does the instinc- 
tive love of children and parental love play 
back and forth to the mutual advantage, 
or, mayhap, the disadvantage of both. 



76 



CHAPTER VI 
Intermediary Summary 

BEFORE taking up the more specific 
problems of the mental hygiene 
of childhood it will be useful to 
pause for a little and take account of stock, 
sum up the conclusions we have already 
reached and rearrange them in such an 
orderly manner in our thinking as will be 
helpful in proceeding to further consider- 
ations. 

The great creative force or energy man- 
ifests itself in the child in certain definite 
ways which are the results of the ages of 
development and evolution in attempting 
to solve the problem of life the problem 
of effectively relating the living organism 
to its environment. Thus the child comes 
into the world with certain definite en- 
dowments, limitations, if you will, with 
which to take up its problems. These 
endowments, however, far from being al- 

77 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

together limiting are the necessary pre- 
conditions for effective living, for they are 
the solutions which have thus far been 
reached and laid down in structure. Thus 
the liver is the solution which animal life 
has given to the problem of how to best 
utilize sugar in the animal economy (the 
problem of the metabolism of sugar) ; 
the gastro-intestinal tract is the solution 
which animal life has offered to the prob- 
lem of metabolism in general, that is, of 
how to make food (foreign animal, veg- 
etable, and mineral matter and water) 
available for renewing the waste of the 
tissues ; the kidney is the answer to the 
problem of how to take care of the waste 
products, etc. These solutions are there- 
fore essential to begin with, for they repre- 
sent the gains which have already been 
made and therefore can be used as new 
starting points. Otherwise each animal 
would have to begin at the beginning and 
life would thus never get very far on the 
road of developing higher types of organ- 
isms. When we realize that the evolution 
of the human species alone has extended, 

78 



INTERMEDIARY SUMMARY 

according to the latest calculations, over a 
period of five hundred thousands of years, 
we get some idea of what it means to be 
able to begin where our progenitors left 
off. 

The child, at birth, comes into the world 
with this heritage from the past which 
from now on becomes progressively of less 
and less relative importance as the im- 
mediate problems of the present moment 
press more and more insistently for solu- 
tion. The past tends thus to become ever 
more of a foundation upon which the child 
proceeds to erect a structure of ever in- 
creasing complexity, which stands for, rep- 
resents, its solutions of its problems. 
Throughout this structure there neces- 
sarily runs the influence of that past. Its 
design is an expression of that past, but as 
the structure rises its details are more and 
more those of the individual. 

From the very first we have seen the 
infant controlled by two fundamental in- 
stincts, the ego-instinct and the pleasure- 
pain instinct, which lie back of and direct 
its conduct. The ego-instinct we have 

79 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

seen at work in the infant's effort to dom- 
inate its environment, an effort which is 
doomed to ever increasing failure from the 
standpoint of an attempt to return to the 
state of unconditioned omnipotence which 
maintained in its mother's uterus, but which, 
on the other hand, is continually succeed- 
ing to the extent that the demands of 
reality are met and adequately adjusted to. 
The pleasure-pain motive we saw in oper- 
ation as the infant, in trying to separate it- 
self from the environment, found out what 
belonged to it, was constantly being, so to 
speak, made to realize what was really its 
own by repeated painful contacts with an 
unrelenting environment. 

From now on these two instincts are in 
constant play and also in constant conflict, 
for from the very first it must be that their 
aims are in natural opposition, their in- 
terests cross. For example,, the child's 
ego-instinct bids it eat unduly, pain warns 
it of the necessity of controlling appetite 
in order to remain well. Later on their 
antagonism becomes of great importance 
when the interests of the individual cross 

80 



INTERMEDIARY SUMMARY 

those of the herd, and as a result the 
problems of crime, among others, make 
their appearance. 

The ego-instinct continues to play for 
mastery, but for the future character de- 
velopment it is the pleasure-pain instinct 
which is the more important. This, as we 
have seen, is the race-preservative or sex 
instinct, and therefore we find it manifest- 
ing itself closely wrapt up in conduct of a 
more or less concretely sexual nature. 

The picture of development from now on 
is of a constant play of activities which are 
conditioned by these fundamental instincts 
but in which the sex instinct plays an in- 
creasing and predominant role. The motive 
power back of even the infantile activities 
belongs to the pleasure-pain tendencies 
the seeking for pleasure and the avoidance 
of pain. The constant activities are condi- 
tioned by the pleasure which the infant feels 
in, for example, just muscular movement. 
The tension of the muscles is in itself 
pleasure giving, a fact which any athlete 
will testify to in the glorious feeling of 
power and health which goes with muscles 

81 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

that are in condition (muscle erotism) ; 
the interest in urinating which later plays 
a part in most boys' tests of rivalry is con- 
ditioned by the pleasure-relief which comes 
from voiding the urine (urethral erotism) ; 
it is the same with the movements of the 
bowels (anal erotism) ; the pleasure in 
nakedness comes in part from the pleasure 
derived from the feeling of the cool air 
upon the skin (skin erotism) and so on 
through the whole list. Later on all pleas- 
ures are subordinated to the one great, in- 
comparable pleasure which is concentrated 
in the sex organs, and this pleasure comes to 
dominate all others and therefore to be the 
goal of all pleasure-seeking activities. 1 

The sex instinct therefore begins to 
manifest itself in such concrete ways as 

1 This predominance of the sexfual zone is very important. 
Unless all these other pleasures are subordinated in the hierarchy 
of pleasures to the one great sex pleasure they maintain their 
independence and become the basis of sex perversions and neu- 
rosis. Aside from this, however, and of supreme importance, is 
the necessity that the sex activities should offer the greatest of 
pleasure premiums. If any other activity were equal or greater, 
that of sex would be in danger of being superseded and the racial 
existence be jeopardized. The final domination of the sex zone 
occurs at pjiberty and a transitory period of masturbation is 
probably normal in assisting this to come about. 

82 



INTERMEDIARY SUMMARY 

pleasure connected with all sorts of bodily 
functions. It would never have been sup- 
posed that the pleasure attached to these 
functions had a libidinous nature if it 
were not for the study of the sex perver- 
sions in which we see a return to these 
pleasures. For example, in the exhibition- 
ist who takes a sexual pleasure in exposing 
himself to others, often of the opposite sex. 

The pleasure motive for conduct then 
thrusts the child along in the develop- 
mental path from interest in self to interest 
in other selves, at first most like itself 
(homosexual) then less and less like itself, 
until finally it is projected into the world 
of other selves with the capacity for in- 
terest in any and all of them. In the 
meantime, however, it never quite gives 
up its original bent, still retaining its in- 
terest in itself and in others like itself but 
coming to be predominantly guided by 
those attractions which are the expression 
of later tendencies. 

This later attraction for others of the 
opposite sex (heterosexual) had its original 
set quite as early as the others in the love 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

for the parent of the opposite sex, and in 
its later development the character of this 
original love shows itself in the choice made 
of objects of interest and affection. There 
is a double attitude towards others. The 
child is attracted to others by those qual- 
ities which it sees in them that resemble 
its parents and at the same time it is re- 
pelled by those very same qualities because 
they mean attachment to the home, failure 
to become emancipated from dependence 
upon it, lack of independence. And so all 
of those warring tendencies battle for the 
victory and the resulting solutions and 
compromises somehow, in the long run and 
in general, push the group along to ever 
higher and higher standards. 

Thus the child looms larger in our con- 
siderations than just an individual. It is 
the meeting point, the battle ground of 
forces whose unending activities aim al- 
ways to shape its destinies. Some of these 
forces have their origin in the past, many 
reside in the present, all help to shape the 
future. The child is thus much more than 
individual it is a bit of life itself and 

84 



INTERMEDIARY SUMMARY 

only represents the particular place where 
for the time being these various forces have 
come together, and where, as a result, will 
be worked out those various and several 
compromises, solutions, which make up the 
activities we call conduct ; and this, seen 
in longitudinal section, gives us that im- 
pression, abstraction, we call character. 

These forces, warring tendencies, in- 
stincts, drive it along the path of develop- 
ment. From the earliest period in which 
it has first to discover itself it must learn to 
discover others, and those others, as they 
become more and more unlike the child, 
and more and more varied in kind, do but 
testify to the budding and branching of the 
child's interests; they are but the pro- 
jections in the outer world of what is taking 
place within. 1 

1 To clarify this statement. We may be said to see only what 
we are looking for. The average person sees in a potted plant 
only a pretty flower; the botanist sees the shapes and forms of 
leaves and petals and a thousand other details to which his in- 
terests as botanist have led him, but which do not exist for the other 
observer. The flower has remained the same to the two ob- 
servers but it revealed itself much or little, depending upon the 
development of interest in the observer and so in what it finally 
appeared to each was but the projection of what had taken place 
within. 

85 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

The battling forces may be grouped for 
descriptive purposes into two great instincts 
but we must not be led astray by such a 
grouping into thinking that such distinc- 
tions really exist so clearly defined. We 
are limited in our expressions to language 
which is always much more formal, static, 
than the moving, plastic, living being in 
any of its aspects. The child battles, at 
the very first, for supremacy over its en- 
vironment, but also from the very first 
how it shall succeed depends upon the 
pleasure premium of the two opposite forms 
of conduct the aggressive, which makes 
frontal attacks upon obstacles, or the sub- 
missive, which accomplishes results by in- 
direction and by an apparent yielding to 
outside forces and rather shapes them from 
within. 

Pushed and pushing out into this world 
of reality, of things and events, the child's 
interest is attached to persons and things 
in an ever widening circle of influence. It 
is attracted in some directions, repelled 
in others, and both attracted and re- 
pelled in still others. The persons to 

86 



INTERMEDIARY SUMMARY 

whom the child is antipathetic, antagonis- 
tic, it protects itself from by building up a 
barrier of hate ; but it tends to identify itself 
with those who attract it. And with still 
others it develops hate towards some qual- 
ities and an effort at identification with 
respect to certain others. When now 
we recall that the original set of the child's 
attractions and repulsions were the results 
of its first experiences with those first 
incomparable ones who alone constituted 
its personal environment the parents 
we begin to sense their enormous influence 
upon the future of the child and to under- 
stand how the results may seem to be, 
yet not be, due to heredity. 

The life force which manifests itself 
through the child, which really is the child 
in that portion of it which has been caught 
for the time being and presented to our 
view as a concrete individual, constantly 
streams out of the past forward into the 
world of reality and like so many rays from 
myriad searchlights plays first upon this, 
then upon that object. These pulsating, 
sensitive streamers of light make near-by 

87 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

objects stand out in dazzling brilliancy ; 
those farther off may not be so bright but 
the distance is not clearly perceived ; only 
the differences in illumination are at once 
evident. The searchlight may rest for a 
time on some object only to be withdrawn 
as some vague feeling from the near-by 
darkness makes it seem desirable to il- 
luminate that area. Objects may be 
brought to view which are uninteresting 
and the light is soon withdrawn; which 
are horrifying, the light is quickly with- 
drawn ; or which are of great interest, the 
light is permitted to rest upon them in- 
definitely. 

We must think of the child in some such 
dynamic way as this. Think of it as 
thrust into the world full of potentialities 
which can only come into being by being 
tried out in innumerable directions. Just 
as the searchlight penetrates the gloom as 
its rays move first in this direction then in 
that, so the child by its constant activities, 
the results of its varied and shifting inter- 
ests, lights its way into the highways and 
byways of reality. 

88 



INTERMEDIARY SUMMARY 

The home is, so to speak, the geographical 
setting in which this play of interests be- 
gins. The enormous importance of what 
this offers to the budding interests of the 
child can be appreciated. It may very 
well depend largely on what first fixes the 
interests of the child as to what its future 
career may be. The influences that come 
out of the past and those that shape the 
first experiences are both of tremendous 
importance. The first cannot be changed, 
the latter are undoubtedly capable of great 
modification and offer the field in which 
mental hygiene is operative. 

Finally it is to be kept in mind that, 
after all, there is only so much light, and 
whatever is directed upon certain objects 
cannot be used for others, or if it is used 
for others must first be withdrawn. Origi- 
nal directions then come to have an added 
force when it is realized that the amount of 
light is limited and therefore the sooner the 
child gets on the right path the more rapidly 
will it attain to efficiency in its problems of 
living. 



CHAPTER VII 
Problems 

EDUCATION PUNISHMENT 

IN this chapter I wish to discuss 
briefly a number of the problems 
that are presented by the child which 
come within the province of mental hygiene. 
I naturally shall not attempt to touch 
upon them all for their number is infinite, 
in fact as great as the number of individual 
children. Much, in the last analysis, must 
always be left to the judgment, good or ill, 
of those who have direct charge of the 
child, but a great deal can be accomplished 
by an understanding of the principles in- 
volved, especially as illustrated by more 
or less concrete problems. 

The problem of education is too often 
narrowly conceived as an affair of the class- 
room. As a matter of fact the child 
spends only a minor portion of its time in 

90 



PROBLEMS 

school, much the greater part being spent 
at home or elsewhere, according to cir- 
cumstances. Elsewhere is not infrequently 
on the street or in similar uncontrolled 
situations. If education is for the pur- 
pose of fitting the child for efficient living 
then the influences which affect it during 
the major part of the day are certainly 
worthy of attention and should be in- 
cluded in any well rounded plan. Then 
again, the child is already some years old 
before the matter of school is thought of at 
all and during all this pre-school period it 
has been laying a foundation for the future, 
in all probability of the very first impor- 
tance. Education in the larger sense, 
therefore, begins at the moment of birth 
and it goes without saying that during all 
the early period of childhood the influence 
of the parents is of the greatest importance 
for the future of the child. 

Now, in the first place, education should 
be an exquisitely individual matter. To 
the extent that it is made a group affair 
it tends to drop into a formalism that is 
more or less destructive of individual de- 

91 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

velopment and initiative. The necessity 
of teaching large numbers does require a 
certain degree of formalism which, how- 
ever, is of such different kinds as to allow 
of a considerable degree of free play and 
individual choice. The fact seems to be 
that education as carried on does tend to 
suppress too much that is individual in the 
interests of the formal scheme, whereas 
the principle which should control should 
be that the educator, just like the psycho- 
therapist, should not attempt to mold his 
material into forms corresponding to his 
personal ideals but should rather take the 
position of helping the struggling person- 
ality to find expression, to throw off the 
cloak of its limitations and to come forth 
to the fullest expression consistent with 
its possibilities. 

From what has already been said of the 
instincts controlling conduct it will be ap- 
preciated that education can by no means 
be a process solely of instilling ideas, a 
purely intellectualistic procedure. If, as 
modern psychology indicates, the instincts 
lie back of all conduct, then ideas become 

92 



PROBLEMS 

but the organs, the tools which carry forth 
instinct into conduct. It is, therefore, of 
greater importance to get the instincts 
pointed right. If this is accomplished the 
necessary ideas will be easily acquired for 
carrying them into action ; but without 
the instinctive need, so to speak, the ideas 
will be almost impossible to instill. 

Educational methods to obtain their 
best results must fall in with the necessities 
imposed by the make-up of the individual, 
besides taking into consideration the, gen- 
eral average of the group as a standard. 
This latter has heretofore been stressed too 
much, while the former has been largely 
limited to a consideration of the atypical 
child who was so far out of the way of the 
normal that is, the usual as to con- 
stitute a definite difficulty in carrying out 
the general scheme, and so was removed 
largely, if not wholly, to get it out of the 
way of the others, to keep it from inter- 
fering with their progress. 

These, then, are the two aspects of educa- 
tion the repressive and the developing. 
It is the repressive side which has usually 

93 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

been stressed. It is true that repression is 
necessary. In the course of growth and 
development the instincts have gradually 
to be brought under the control and direc- 
tion of the higher consciousness, the ideals 
of the personality. This process of sub- 
limation drafts the energy, which would 
otherwise be wastefully and injuriously 
expended, to the service of higher, more 
useful, and socially acceptable forms of 
conduct. In its repressive function educa- 
tional methods must be called upon to sup- 
plement and reinforce these necessities. The 
general lines along which education should 
proceed in this particular are fairly well 
marked out for it by the spontaneously 
appearing repressions of the latency period. 
This period, following the frankly amoral, 
asocial period of infancy, is marked by the 
appearance of shame, disgust, bashfulness, 
conscientiousness, etc., the group of re- 
actions which testify to the existence of 
repressions and seem to come about spon- 
taneously in all children at about the same 
stage in development and therefore to be, 
so to speak, organically conditioned 

94 



PROBLEMS 

that is, inherent in the potentialities of the 
developing child and perhaps hereditarily 
conditioned rather than the results of the 
environmental influences to which the child 
has been subjected. 

On the other hand, the development 
goal of education is its individualistic as- 
pect. The stressing of repressions tends 
to form the child into the mold of the av- 
erage, to conform it to the type of the 
group. The individualistic aspect of the 
problem necessarily takes into account the 
instinctive trends, the necessities for ex- 
pression, for outlet, and seeks constructive 
avenues for these inner needs. In order 
to appreciate the several bearings of this 
individualistic aspect of the educational 
problem it will be necessary to discuss, at 
this point, certain aspects of repression 
what it means, how it is brought about, 
and how it manifests itself in the later 
character tendencies. 

Repression is the withholding of the ap- 
plication of interest, the turning aside 
from objects of desire, the creation of a 
barrier to progress in certain directions. 

95 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

The infant learns through innumerable 
experiences that the passing of its excreta 
in public, before other people, is a tabooed 
type of conduct, that it is not countenanced 
by its elders. In response, therefore, to the 
expressed disapproval of those it loves it 
ceases to respond immediately to the de- 
mands of desire, as had been its habit, and 
by exercising control over the functions of 
its bladder and rectum puts off their empty- 
ing until it can be done in private and un- 
der conditions acceptable and countenanced 
by the group. The demands of desire are 
not yielded to when they first announce 
themselves, they are repressed until a 
favorable opportunity can be created for 
yielding to them. It is the same way with 
the other instincts, the instinct of hunger, 
of sexual expression, the desire to sleep or 
rest, and all the rest. The progress of the 
child to higher cultural levels in this respect 
is quite like that of man in general. Civi- 
lization, like education, depends in no small 
measure upon the ability to postpone the 
satisfaction of desires to appropriate times 
and places, a postponement which recedes 

96 



PROBLEMS 

more and more as the cultural demands of 
the herd make themselves felt. 

The normal, natural instincts, therefore 
in many of their immediate concrete de- 
mands, must of necessity be blocked, that 
is, repressed, as very part and parcel of the 
educational process, and as already indi- 
cated the energy thus sidetracked is made 
available for other (socially useful) ends. 

It has already been said that much, at 
least, of this repression seems to come 
about in the natural course of growth and 
development irrespective of environmental 
influence. While this is true, in general, 
still we know that influences from with- 
out have much to do with the details of 
repression, they condition very largely the 
specific interest towards which it is directed 
and also they determine in no small degree 
its strength. For example, it not infre- 
quently happens, especially in girls, that, 
as a result of an unfortunate sexual ex- 
perience in childhood, the child was so 
shamed that the very thought of sex is 
unendurable because it always brings up 
by association the memory of that expe- 

97 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

rience. Such girls may grow to adulthood 
with no knowledge that they have sexual 
desires like other people and in complete 
ignorance of all ordinary information on 
that subject. When they marry they are 
quite frigid and unresponsive to the marital 
embrace. 

Usually repression is not so effective. 
It generally fails more or less because of 
the strength of the instinct behind it, 
which is seeking expression. A child, for 
instance, whose curiosity about sex matters 
had been rigorously disapproved and who 
had been severely punished for indulging 
it, might later in life become the village gos- 
sip, who was forever suggesting improper 
interpretations of the conduct of others and 
prying into their intimate affairs. The 
curiosity instinct was so strong in this 
instance that it broke through the bounds 
set by repression. The repression still 
worked, however. The break was only 
partial for the curiosity did not manifest 
itself frankly for just what it was but along 
pathways that subtly served its purpose 
without disclosing its aims. In this case 

98 



PROBLEMS 

the repression had been brought about as 
a necessary reaction to authority and the 
breaking through of the repressed tend- 
encies was an effort to overcome, to get the 
best of that authority in addition to the 
mere satisfaction of the curiosity. The re- 
sult is undesirable and on the border at 
least of abnormality. 

For the child whose curiosity instinct 
does not suffer under repression it con- 
stitutes one of the most valuable of its 
assets in later life. It is at the basis of all 
learning and investigation and becomes 
one of the greatest of incentives to the 
acquirement of knowledge. Thus it can 
be seen how important it is that the in- 
stincts should gain expression and how 
dangerous is unintelligent, unreasonable, 
and too often brutal repression of them. 

All this gives rise to the question of how 
the instincts should be dealt with when 
they manifest themselves. Take this one 
of curiosity, for example, curiosity about 
things forbidden, about sexual things. This 
curiosity in general expresses itself in the 
question "Where do babies come from?" 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

This is the universal question of child- 
hood and a great deal may depend upon 
how the situation which it creates is dealt 
with. 

As a general thing the parent appealed 
to tries to sidetrack the inquiry, to evade 
a frank facing of the question, and in so 
doing assumes a patronizing air with the 
child and delivers the usual explanation, 
namely, that the stork or the doctor brings 
the babies. Now, such an attitude and 
such a response may have two very de- 
cided effects. In the first place the patron- 
izing of the child is a particular case of a 
general and a very widespread error. The 
child needs to be taken seriously and its 
serious inquiries and efforts are entitled to 
that kind of consideration. To the child 
its problems are quite as serious as the 
adult's are to him, and because to the 
adult they may seem amusing is no good 
reason for dealing with them lightly. Such 
a way of handling the situation only humil- 
iates the child and has the effect of turn- 
ing it away from those who should be in a 
position of helpfulness and to whom it 
100 



PROBLEMS 

would naturally turn for guidance. The 
intelligence and the powers of observation 
of the child are generally very greatly un- 
derestimated so that it is generally felt 
that a laugh and an evasion will settle a 
matter which the child could not under- 
stand anyway. As a matter of fact the 
child is not only unduly repressed and 
humiliated by such treatment, but it is 
always quite sufficiently intelligent to un- 
derstand a reasonable and proper answer 
to any of its inquiries. 

This last statement I know will be re- 
ceived with incredulity by many but what 
does the child's question mean, if not that 
information is sought? And if that is 
true, is it true that satisfying information is 
impossible to supply? Actual instances of 
dealing with the situation in this way have 
demonstrated that the questions can be 
answered and that too in a perfectly satis- 
fying manner. To be sure some ingenuity 
may be required but it is not expected that 
important results should be attained with- 
out effort. 

The fundamental principle to be borne 
101 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

in mind in meeting all such inquiries is 
that the question alone should be con- 
sidered and an attempt made to answer it 
by giving the information called for and 
no more. It would be a grievous mistake, 
for example, to attempt to answer the ques- 
tion "Where do babies come from?" by 
an elaborate description which would in- 
clude the sexual act and be satisfying to 
the adult. Such an answer would ob- 
viously supply all sorts of material which 
the child would be unable to assimilate 
and about which it might entertain very 
undesirable ideas that might easily lead to 
very vicious results. 

Given, then, the conclusion that the child's 
questions must be taken seriously and 
answered in that spirit, and the further 
conclusion that the answers must be re- 
sponsive and satisfying, then follows the 
third requirement that they should be 
honest and truthful. The reply to the 
query "Where do babies come from?" by 
telling the child that the stork brings them 
is not only an evasion; it is much worse 
than that it is dishonest because untruth- 
102 



PROBLEMS 

ful. The evasion hurts the child's self- 
respect because it feels as though it were 
not being treated seriously and not being 
regarded as of much importance, and so 
tends to cause repressions which make it 
turn away from the parents as sources of 
information all too often to seek it in much 
less desirable quarters ; for instance, among 
its playmates who, too frequently, already 
have distorted and unwholesome ideas 
about such things. The untruthfulness of 
the reply is not long in being discovered. 
Children come very early to doubt the 
validity of the stork story. The untruth, 
therefore, tends to lower the parents in 
the estimation of the child as sources 
of authority and thus deprives them of 
a great deal of influence they would 
otherwise be able to exercise over their 
children. 

If when the child asks for information 
as to the source of babies the parent 
(usually the mother) replies simply and 
directly by telling it that "The baby grows 
in mother's body", the question has been 
accorded the seriousness it deserves, it has 
103 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

been answered truthfully, and possibly the 
answer will satisfy, at least for some time 
until the information thus given has 
been assimilated and new questions arise. 
For instance, the little child does not 
understand from such an answer how the 
child gets into the mother's body. It has 
no idea originally why father as well as 
mother cannot have children, and may 
and probably will come back after a time 
with additional questions to clear up these 
doubts. When it does the same method 
should be pursued, a simple, direct, ,and 
truthful explanation which may use anal- 
ogies to bring it within the child's range of 
observed phenomena. The father may be 
compared to the gardener who plants seed 
in the soil as he does in the mother. And 
so the curiosity of the child is satisfied, led 
safely along the path of development, 
saved from any improper repressions, and 
the relations between the parent and child 
are maintained on that basis of mutual 
confidence which keeps the parent in 
the position of maximum usefulness be- 
cause of a retained respect which can be 
104 



PROBLEMS 

used to the best advantage in directing 
the child along useful ways in its develop- 
ment. 1 

This example of the manner of dealing 
with curiosity will serve for the other in- 
stincts as well. As has already been said, 
repression is a necessary condition of cul- 
tural advancement. Every one has to 
bear a certain amount, yet with each there 
is a limit to the amount that can be borne. 
The instincts need as full as possible ex- 
pression and in so far as that expression is 
impossible at culturally lower levels, the 
energy so repressed must be able to find 
its way out in sublimated forms of activity 
at culturally higher, socially acceptable 
levels. 

Whether repression is successful or not 
depends upon two factors, the stimulus 

1 This example is not intended as a formula for use but only 
as an illustration of satisfying the curiosity and of frankness. 
This particular problem is an exceedingly difficult one and re- 
quires the greatest ingenuity for its successful solution. The de- 
tails of handling will necessarily differ in every case. See con- 
crete examples of dealing with it in Jung, C. G. : "Collected 
Papers on Analytical Psychology ", Lecture III, and Von Hug- 
Hellmuth, "A Study of the Mental Life of the Child", The 
Psychoanalytic Review, Vol. V. 

105 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

that comes from without (by which I mean 
the total of the conditions which surround 
the individual and which often includes a 
cutting off of habitual avenues of expres- 
sion) and the strength of the demand from 
within. Outside conditions may or may 
not be controllable ; it is the inside condi- 
tions which furnish material for mental 
hygiene. Great strength of the need for 
expression is blocked and energy accumu- 
lates; this occurs, not only from lack of 
opportunity but also as a result of repres- 
sion. Both the increased demand from 
within and the repression are due to what 
is termed fixation. A few words to explain 
what is meant by this term. 

In the course of development the child, 
as already described, passes through many 
stages. These various stages, among other 
things, are characterized by types of pleas- 
ure-seeking activities. For example, if in 
childhood great pleasure had been ex- 
perienced in odors it might later in life be- 
come a dealer in perfumes ; one who had 
been much interested in sounds, as chil- 
dren often are, might become a musician. 
106 



PROBLEMS 

A child who had suffered a great injustice 
might consecrate his life to correcting in- 
justices and become a jurist, just as one 
who had suffered much from illness might 
decide upon the career of a physician. 
Only children, who have always had their 
own way, desire to become commanding 
personalities ; those children who have 
loved to "show off" may later become 
actors. It is important to note that in 
later life when expression is in any way 
blocked, when the individual comes "up 
against a stone wall", is threatened by 
failure, he reverts to some form of expres- 
sion (pleasure-seeking) which had proved 
satisfying when a child but which he 
should have left permanently behind in the 
course of development. Thus he may re- 
vert to overeating, eating of sweets, ex- 
hibitions of cruelty (getting even with 
others) by projecting his own short- 
comings upon others. Thus forms of sat- 
isfaction (cruelty, curiosity in regard to 
forbidden things) which had been repressed 
become reanimated to serve as means of 
expression when the higher pathways are 
107 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OP CHILDHOOD 

blocked. 1 Such manifestations are well rec- 
ognized and common in the neuroses. It 
can be seen, by these examples, how im- 
portant the influences which surround the 
child may become for later life. 

In order that the various pleasure-seek- 
ing activities of the child should, in the 
course of development, gradually fall into 
their rightful relations and not be over- 
emphasized, it is important that they 
should be given their normal expression at 
the time of their outcrop and not be un- 
duly repressed and thereby given a dis- 
proportionate importance. The curiosity 
which has been used as an example does so 
fall into its proper alignment when met in 
the frank, open way suggested. It is only 
when it is denied that it comes to have an 
undue significance which thus becomes 
fraught with evil possibilities. 

One of the most important consider- 
ations in bringing this desired end about 
is connected with the administration of 

1 The influence of the instincts and their repression on the 
choice of a vocation is an important chapter in psychology. See 
Brill, A. A., "The Psychopathology of Selections of Occupations ", 
The Medical Record, New York, February 23, 1918. 

108 



PROBLEMS 

punishments. If the child who asked about 
where babies came from was punished for 
showing such a perfectly normal curiosity, 
it not only would withdraw from the 
parents and tend to build up a barrier of 
repression but it would withdraw with a 
sense of injustice and with feelings of re- 
sentment. This resentment would then 
spread to relations with the parent other 
than just those with respect to the specific 
question. Thus there would tend to grow 
up an attitude of antagonism which might 
easily become more and more pronounced, 
and which would ultimately find expres- 
sion in all those relations in which the 
child and the parent come into conflict. 
Punishment, therefore, especially if it is 
felt to be unjust, tends to bring about all 
those reactions of obstinacy, resistance, and 
antagonism which interfere with the rela- 
tions of parent and child and impair the 
influence of the former. 

The real object of punishment should be 
to build up barriers to certain forms of 
conduct which are not calculated to be ad- 
vantageous in the long run, in general, to 
109 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

conduct which tends to be destructive, to 
be socially inacceptable and disintegrating. 
Punishment, however, as a matter of fact, 
is too often a reaction of anger against such 
conduct, and therefore instead of having 
simply a retarding or prohibitive effect 
tends to raise feelings of resentment which 
operate often to continue the same or 
similar conduct in a spirit of revenge. 

Education and punishment are here 
brought together as offering examples of 
common errors of procedure and presenting 
dangerous potentialities. Education by 
attempting to force the child into a form 
which suits the ideals of the teacher as to 
just what a child ought to be, tends to 
destroy all that splendid spontaneity of 
expression which comes from pursuing a 
course which gives adequate expression to 
the fundamental instinctive needs and 
makes therefore the fullest development 
of the personality impossible. Punishment 
becomes a tool to enforce compliance and 
still further to cripple the personality in 
all its attempts at expression in so far as 
they do not fit in with the preconceived 
110 



PROBLEMS 

ideals of the teacher, or, what amounts to 
the same thing, of the scheme which has 
been formulated. 

Such artificial pressing of the child in 
molds to suit other people has the effect of 
sidetracking the personality, directing it 
along paths not suited to the pattern of its 
instinctive needs, offering it as an objective 
a fictitious goal. Thus the child who has 
been severely and unjustly punished by a 
brutal father may spend its life in hating 
and antagonizing all authority and so lose 
the capacity for a judicial choice of ac- 
tivities which shall see the various possi- 
bilities in their proper perspective as re- 
lated to its real needs. We shall see in the 
next chapter how these fictitious goals ac- 
quire their power to control conduct be- 
cause they offer the greatest of all pleasure 
premiums, the sexual. The fictitious goal 
because it is sexually attractive has the 
power to dominate conduct. 



Ill 



CHAPTER VIII 
Further Problems 

SEXUALITY REPRESSION PLAY 

NO one characteristic of cultural 
progress is so marked or so im- 
portant as the repression under 
which the sexual instinct has fallen in the 
course of development. And, too, as a 
result of that repression, no aspect of the 
personality has suffered such manifold dis- 
tortions and disfigurements. This has al- 
ready been intimated in the previous chap- 
ters and it has been suggested that this was 
due, in part at least, to the fact that the 
sexual drive was so powerful that it tended 
to accumulate the total energies of the 
individual and therefore, in order to pro- 
gress along the path of evolutionary de- 
velopment, it became necessary to divert 
portions of the great creative energy from 



FURTHER PROBLEMS 

immediate sexual aims to sublimated forms 
of activity, which, while they derived their 
original and fundamental powers from sex 
were yet socially useful forms of conduct. 
In order to see this more clearly it will 
be necessary to take up somewhat more in 
detail some problems, particularly those 
that grow out of the intimate relations 
between the child and its parents. 

The thing that people are loath to see 
and to acknowledge is that the infant of 
two, three, and four years of age has sexual 
feelings. They do not believe it is so, be- 
cause they do not want to believe it ; and, 
too, because their own memory does not 
verify such an assumption. But, then, the 
memory of the whole period of infancy is 
practically nil, only here and there some 
event standing out. This very fact, the 
absence of memory, goes to prove that 
there is much that it is wished to forget, 
in other words that is repressed, and we know 
such repressed material is predominantly 
sexual. Then, too, an unbiased observa- 
tion of little children cannot escape the 
conclusion that they have sexual desire, for 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

it is expressed over and over again in their 
conduct and in what they say. 

A further aspect of those early years is 
equally or even more repugnant to the 
average person, yet it follows logically 
from it. That is, that the child's love of 
its parents contains a prominent libidinous 
component. If a child is a sexual being it 
might be expected that its love for others 
would contain a sexual element, and if 
those others are the parents (in the first 
years they are to all intents and purposes 
the only others in the infant's environment) 
then it is to be expected and it follows of 
necessity that the love will be sexually 
conditioned. That this is so is indicated 
by the more or less obvious fact that the 
child is attracted more strongly toward the 
parent of the opposite sex the little boy 
toward the mother, the little girl toward 
the father. The supremacy of sex makes 
itself felt thus early in life. 

There are many reasons why, in the 

progress of cultural development, this bond 

of sexual attraction between son and 

mother, daughter and father needs to be 

114 



FURTHER PROBLEMS 

dissolved. About this question revolves 
the whole important problem of incest, 
which in many of its ramifications is so 
little understood. This, however, is not 
the place to discuss such complex biological 
and anthropological questions. Suffice it 
to say that the horror of incest seems to 
be ingrained in man with the strength of 
an instinct and nothing is more character- 
istic of primitive man, the savage, than the 
elaborate precautions he takes, by the or- 
ganization of his society, to guard against 
incest. This horror of incest is a most 
effectual barrier to that continuance of the 
child's dependence upon its parents which 
is so inimical to its future development 
and so becomes one of the most effectual 
means of dissolving it. It is, too, largely 
because of this instinctive horror that the 
early years of infancy are so completely for- 
gotten, for they contain this character of 
longing which to the adult mind would 
seem incestuous and horrible. Love, how- 
ever, must travel a path of gradual un- 
foldment and in order that we should ul- 
timately be able to love a person of the 
115 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

opposite sex and not of our immediate 
family, with whom we can join interests to 
the end of race-preservation, it is necessary 
to pass the intermediary stages of love for 
persons of the same sex and for persons of 
our immediate family. Perhaps these forms 
of love are never wholly given up. So to 
insure that we do not revert to them, a 
barrier of horror is erected against homo- 
sexuality and against incest. 

Viewed with these facts in mind the re- 
lations of child and parent gain tremen- 
dously in importance. The possibilities for 
good or for evil become greatly magnified. 
I shall endeavor to point out some of the 
possibilities, for I believe it to be of the first 
importance that they should have a wider 
recognition. 

In the first place, if this child-parent re- 
lation is of such value it is certainly worth 
preserving and should not idly be handed 
over to a substitute in the person of a 
nurse, whose real interest can hardly ever 
be such as to be comparable to that of the 
mother. Only too often, unfortunately, 
nurses either through ignorance or down- 
116 



FURTHER PROBLEMS 

right viciousness influence the child in 
ways (definitely sexual) which are directly 
harmful. Ill-advised admiration of the 
child's naked body, a too great attention 
to the genital zone in performing the or- 
dinary toilet duties, or the nurses' expo- 
sure of their own bodies on the theory that 
the child does not comprehend, tend to 
fixations of sexual interest which Jater come 
under the ban of repression and subsequent 
distortions that are of distinctly crippling 
influence on the developing personality. 
Of course the mother herself may be 
guilty in precisely the same way though not 
usually to the extent and certainly not in- 
tentionally. The child's interest in its own 
body, while a perfectly natural interest, 
should ultimately sink into its proper 
place of secondary importance but if em- 
phasized in the ways indicated may result 
in either developing an exquisite who lav- 
ishes all sorts of unnecessary care upon 
personal decoration, fine clothes, and the 
like to the exclusion of more important 
things ; or else may result in a general re- 
action towards the body (nakedness, and 
117 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

the various bodily functions) of abhorrence 
and the feeling that all such things are 
nasty. Either extreme makes for distorted 
types of personality rather than that free- 
dom towards all such matters which mark 
the individual without fixations and dis- 
torting repressions. We constantly see the 
mischief that such persons do in the com- 
munity. Social reform attracts many per- 
sons who only seek activity for libidinous 
tendencies rather than the rendering of 
service. Many anti-vivisectionists, for ex- 
ample, undoubtedly belong to that group of 
sadists who delight in cruelty, as shown 
plainly by their suspicion that every one 
who does vivisection is really cruel and 
only indulging themselves in that instinct. 
They see themselves in others and then, 
instead of being able to correct their own 
tendencies, fight those tendencies which 
they have thus projected and so relieve 
themselves from a consciousness of their 
own shortcomings. 

The human body as such and its various 
functions should never be degraded in the 
mind of the child. Much of the distortion 
118 



FURTHER PROBLEMS 

of sexuality is on the basis of its alleged 
nastiness. This feeling about it is con- 
ditioned largely by its inclusion with the 
excretory functions in the common realm 
of the forbidden. Parents are to no small 
extent responsible for this by applying the 
term "nasty" to both indiscriminately. 
What is needed in order that every child 
should come into its birthright is not the 
degradation of sexuality with the conse- 
quent repressions and deformations of per- 
sonality. If err one must, it would be bet- 
ter to exalt it. But what is really needed 
is the capacity to deal with sex in all its 
nuances with a judicial attitude of mind 
and without emotional disturbance. Sex- 
uality needs to be dignified, to be con- 
sidered with the same regard as any other 
bodily and mental functions, and only when 
so considered will it be possible to ap- 
proach its problems in that spirit of emo- 
tional calm which will enable us to see it 
in its proper perspective. Only then will 
sexuality really come to be at the service 
of the race, only then will sexuality as an 
instinct come under the control of intelli- 
119 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

gence. Freedom means the capacity to 
press our instincts into service, slavery is 
the domination of instinct. 

The inclusion of sexuality in the general 
prohibition as "nasty" is not by any 
means the only way in which the parent 
directs the child's thinking into wrong 
channels. The child is equally led astray 
by the false ideals of the parents. Parents, 
in response to a feeling of helplessness and 
terror in the face of the sexual problem, 
try only too often to eliminate sex entirely 
from the lives of their children as if 
that were possible ! This effort errs in the 
well recognized way of driving the chil- 
dren away from the parents in the search 
for enlightenment and of course usually in 
less desirable directions playmates whose 
information is usually erroneous at least 
and servants who not infrequently take 
the opportunity to impart knowledge 
which only stimulates the child's curiosity 
further in vicious directions. But the 
parents, in response to their anxiety, or 
for other reasons (because they themselves 
suffer from serious repressions), hold up an 
120 



FURTHER PROBLEMS 

ideal of sexlessness which may be almost 
as harmful as the other extreme. Prudery 
and sentimentalism are certainly not de- 
sirable standards. Besides, the child so 
severely repressed is apt, if it does break 
loose, to plunge into a riot of self-indulgence. 
Not infrequently, too, such children are 
hampered in their development to such an ex- 
tent as to be homosexual or manifest other 
equally undesirable traits in their sex life. 

Sexuality needs to be recognized if for 
no other reason than because it is and it 
cannot be dealt with by refusing to see it. 
The child also needs to be recognized, for 
the same reason, as possessing a sexual in- 
stinct and that instinct needs due con- 
sideration in the process of its growth and 
development. That consideration involves 
an understanding of the demands for recog- 
nition (curiosity, etc.) which the instinct 
makes upon the child, and an appreciation 
of the necessity for meeting those de- 
mands in the best way for the future of the 
child's personality. This involves a digni- 
fication of sex to the same level of impor- 
tance as other functions of the individual, 
121 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

bodily or mental, with the object of at- 
taining to that emotionally calm consid- 
eration of sex problems which will insure 
the bringing of the sex instinct into line 
to serve the individual and the race under 
the direction of the conscious ideals guided 
by the intelligence. 

This emphasis on sex is warranted be- 
cause back of all our activities, our aspira- 
tions, our ideals, it lies as the great motive 
force, stronger than any other, even stronger 
than the instinct for self-preservation. In- 
dividual life is always sacrificed for the 
young or for the group. A mother will 
die to save her child; the soldier dies for 
his country. This must of necessity be so, 
for if any instinct were stronger the race 
would perish. Therefore it may be truly 
said that our fate is the fate of our sexual- 
ity. 1 It offers the greatest pleasure-pre- 
mium and therefore controls. In thinking 
therefore of the child it is essential to bear 
its sexuality constantly in mind and not 

1 Of course using the term " sexuality " in its broad significance, 
as including the race-preservative instinct in all its manifesta- 
tions from the most concrete, to which the term " sexual " is 
usually applied, to the most highly sublimated forms. 



FURTHER PROBLEMS 

eliminate it from consideration as is more 
usually done. In most accounts of the 
child hardly a word is said about it, but 
that is because of the resistances of the 
recorders who are blind to its manifesta- 
tions and importance because of their own 
repressions. The development of the child, 
then, is intimately bound up in its love 
life, in fact is the expression of the changes 
in its love interests. These love interests, 
at first confined to its own body, shortly 
begin to be attached to things outside it- 
self and, as already stated, its future psy- 
chological history might be written in terms 
of the objects of those attachments. 

Among the earliest of the child's activ- 
ities are those expressed in play. Play is 
of the greatest importance in the plan of 
development ; it is the preparation for real 
life. In play the child, so to speak, tries 
out all of its budding powers and possibil- 
ities. All of its characteristics, its interests, 
its aspirations and criticisms, its loves and 
hates, all of its theories about persons and 
things, all are projected in its play either 
upon persons, or earlier upon toys and 
123 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

animals and upon all manner of inanimate 
objects, which for the purpose are per- 
sonified in order to receive these qualities. 
For example, the dolls are given definite 
personalities and names which coincide 
with certain attributes of the child and of 
those about it as it sees them. In the per- 
son of a soldier doll, a general, the male 
child lives out its heroic aspirations, dis- 
pensing honors to those it loves and con- 
quering and destroying those it hates. The 
little girl sees in a doll her own aspirations 
for motherhood and lives through a whole 
phantastically created family situation with 
children and all the rest of it. In this way 
the child dominates its self-created envi- 
ronment, wresting what it wants from the 
world, securing the love of many friends 
and overcoming enemies. In all of the 
infinite details of this play the basic char- 
acteristics of the developing personality 
can be seen manifesting themselves, feeling 
their way into reality where later in life 
they will be pressed into service as instru- 
ments of adult methods of adaptation. 
This is the formative period of life. 
124 



FURTHER PROBLEMS 

This is the period when influences for good 
or evil found themselves at the very basis 
of the personality, when the child is feel- 
ing itself into reality with all the means 
at hand, and therefore the golden period 
for educational influences. The instinctive 
tendencies are pushing their way tenta- 
tively, through the artifices of play, into 
reality, there to find their fulfillment and 
to effect the development of the personality 
to which they belong. If the process pro- 
ceeds smoothly well and good ; but if, at 
this point or that, there is too long a tarry- 
ing at some source of erotic interest, then 
that portion of the personality remains 
relatively infantile in its pleasure-seeking 
activities. Such an infantile area, making 
its demands upon the adult, leads to re- 
pressions with subsequent distortions and 
resulting deformations of the personality. 
For example, a boy who has become, for 
any reason, too much accustomed to being 
petted by the mother and therefore has 
acquired a mother fixation, which in these 
respects is relatively infantile in character, 
comes later in life to seek similar sources 
125 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

of satisfaction and may marry a woman 
because of her resemblance to his mother, 
and then expect from her, not the grown- 
up relations of a wife, but the sort of af- 
fection he had been accustomed to get 
from his mother. In this way a disharmony 
may arise that may well seriously cripple 
and impair his whole married life. 

The attributes of the child, the nature 
of its instinctive longings, can be seen in its 
play, in the character of its relation to other 
children, the nature of its tastes for food, 
games, music, love of toys, of animals, its 
desire to be alone or capacity for forming 
satisfactory companionships, and its sen- 
sitiveness to criticism, ways of reacting to 
success as well as disappointments, its 
necessity for praise, its initiative and ag- 
gressiveness or tendency toward sulkiness 
and depression and in a thousand and one 
other ways. It testifies to the nature of 
its needs in everything it says and does, in 
the jokes it makes, the new words it coins, 
the choice of playmates, its love-objects 
and its objects of hate, its desire to give 
pleasure or to inflict pain. 
126 



FURTHER PROBLEMS 

Following the earliest stages of develop- 
ment, the period when the child is pri- 
marily interested in its own body in a sen- 
sational way, the period of auto-erotism, 
comes the stage which I have already re- 
ferred to as Narcissism. The child is on 
the way to the development of capacity for 
a love-object, the stage of object-love, but 
passes through this intermediary period in 
which it is not quite yet capable of object- 
love nor yet able to give up its interest in 
its own body. In this Narcissistic stage 
the child, on its way to seek a love-object, 
takes first itself as object and, so to speak, 
falls in love with itself. This love of self 
is never again quite given up, but just as 
the child had to learn by bitter experience 
that its father was not the greatest and 
most powerful of all men, nor its mother 
the sweetest and most beautiful of all 
women, it comes to learn through the crit- 
icisms and fault-finding of its elders and 
the successes of other children that it, too, 
is not the incomparable person in full con- 
trol of its environment, commanding all 
love, that it had liked to think itself. When 
127 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

this realization comes with regard to the 
parents, I have indicated how the child at- 
tempts to restore the golden past, when its 
parents were beyond compare, by its dreams 
and phantasies of descent from royal par- 
ents. In like manner, when the realization 
of being subject to the ordinary human 
limitations, weaknesses, and defects is borne 
in upon it, it acts in a similar manner. 
The libido (creative energy) which has 
now no longer a satisfactory occupation in 
feelings of power and perfection goes to 
building up ideals of what it would want 
to be and thus the child begins to build 
up an ideal personality which it trys to 
reach to compensate itself for the loss of 
perfection. 

This creation of an ideal (ego-ideal) 
from the unsatisfied portions of its libido 
is conditioned, in the nature of that ideal, 
by the character of the criticisms to which 
it has been subjected, especially, of course, 
by the parents. Whatever, therefore, the 
parents have stood for to the child may 
become the object of its ideals. The outer 
voice of the parent (more especially the 
128 



FURTHER PROBLEMS 

father) becomes incorporated into the ideals 
of the child and as an inner critique, an 
inner voice conveying praise or blame as 
may be, it becomes our conscience, with 
which as adults we ever after have to 
reckon. Or mayhap, transferred to heaven, 
it is again the voice of the father, now as 
God, as in the olden days when the father 
really was that to the child mind. The 
nature of this inner critique, the character 
of the "wee small voice of conscience" 
with which we have to deal, determines the 
nature and the extent of future repres- 
sions, and as it was originally the external 
voice of authority it can be seen how im- 
portant it is that that voice should speak 
truly as well as with conviction. 1 

The attitude of the parents is thus of 
supreme importance in molding the child's 
personality. I have already indicated the 
ways in which damage could be done with 
respect to the child's curiosity. How 

1 Of course the voice of authority in the family is not always 
the father's it may be the mother's. In any case, however, it 
is the masculine component of the individual that speaks with 
authority. Authority is therefore essentially masculine in its 
nature, no matter in which parent it originates. 

129 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

necessary it is to treat this aspect of the 
growth of the child's interests with respect 
and with an effort to satisfy it. Parents 
not only treat the child in a patronizing 
way but they often actually make fun of 
its childish mistakes. This is a great 
mistake and happens probably because the 
adult no longer remembers his childhood 
and therefore has no appreciation in his 
own feelings of what such treatment means. 
This absolute lack of memory for the early 
years is a most important factor in the 
inability of the adult to understand child- 
hood's viewpoints and is a failure, there- 
fore, to deal with the child as child. Rid- 
icule, therefore, which might be all right 
with an adult and actually accomplish a 
corrective purpose, with the child may 
only bring about or emphasize a feeling of 
inferiority and perhaps permanently in- 
terfere with the power of spontaneous ex- 
pression and create a feeling of sensitiveness 
which continues as a source of unhappiness 
throughout later life. The opposite at- 
titude may be equally harmful. Parents 
may well be overambitious for their chil- 
130 



FURTHER PROBLEMS 

dren, wanting and expecting them to ac- 
complish great things. Such expressed and 
implied expectations, on the part of the 
loved and respected parents, may operate 
to spur the child to endeavors beyond 
its powers, with resulting failure. Such a 
failure may easily be an important factor 
in conditioning a serious breakdown, and 
emphasizes the importance of following 
along in an effort to help the personality 
unfold rather than attempting to force it 
in any particular direction. 

The problems of the care, bringing up, 
education, mental hygiene of the child are 
problems in wisely assisting nature by re- 
moving or preventing obstacles to the un- 
folding of the personality. In order to do 
this most wisely the child needs to be 
understood in its budding possibilities and 
attempts at finding expression and the 
path made as free as possible. No human 
being can safely be forced in a predeter- 
mined direction or into a preformed mold. 
The personality must be left free to de- 
velop to its full powers along the lines of 
its natural growth. The intelligent parent 
131 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

can accomplish much by understanding the 
child and therefore being in a better posi- 
tion to help. Such help comes more by 
assisting the process of unfolding rather 
than by forcing adherence to preconceived 
ideals. The personality can be aided in 
its development by adhering to the general 
plan which it early sketches for itself when 
it begins to discover its own limitations and, 
at the end of the period of infancy and the 
beginning of the latency period, begins to 
build up those first inhibitions and repres- 
sions which are later to be controlling 
factors in its fate. 



132 



CHAPTER IX 
The Function of the Parents 

THE importance of the parents has 
already been repeatedly referred 
to and insisted upon. They are 
the first recipients of the love-interest and 
therefore tend ever after to serve as models 
for that interest. Not only are they the 
first objects of love, but because they rep- 
resent a love attachment from which the 
child must ultimately break away in order 
to acquire its independence, they are the 
first objects to incite its antagonism, they 
are the first objects of its hate. The rela- 
tion of the parent to the child is ambiva- 
lent. We see in it again an illustration of 
the parallel path of opposites. The par- 
ents then are the first to attract the out- 
going energies interest, libido, love, hate 
- of the child, they are the objects toward 
which its first attempts to find an object of 
interest outside its own body are directed, 
133 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

and therefore they, more than anyone or 
anything else at any time in the life of the 
child, are of importance as giving it its 
first forms of expression. If our fate is the 
fate of our love life, then it is in these early 
days when we first learn to love that our 
fate is decided. Ever afterward we are 
conditioned by these first experiences, for 
no matter in what direction or how far we 
may go along the path of development, the 
goal we attain must be determined by the 
way we started out whether we started 
straight forward, or deviated in this or that 
direction, little or much. To be sure there 
may be little about our developed, adult 
personalities to suggest whence they came, 
but theoretically, at least, it should be pos- 
sible to reconstruct the several stages. All 
this will make still better understandable 
what I have already stated, namely, that 
much heretofore credited to heredity is 
really dependent upon these early influ- 
ences. A child may grow like its parents 
for more reasons than because it is of the 
same germ plasm. It may grow like them 
because, through love and admiration, it 
134 



THE FUNCTION OF THE PARENTS 

strives with every fiber of its being to be 
as much like them as it is possible to be. 

This extremely sensitized parent-child re- 
lation is peculiarly susceptible to aberra- 
tions and distortions because of overem- 
phasis or underemphasis addressed to some 
particular aspect of it, and the art of parent- 
hood therefore becomes one of the most 
difficult arts to practice successfully. 

One of the most frequent of the many 
possible aberrations of the relation is pro- 
duced by an attraction between parent and 
child which is too close, too long continued, 
and results in impairing the ability of the 
child to finally break with home depend- 
ency and become independent. The typi- 
cal setting for such an outcome is pro- 
duced when there has been but one child 
a boy and the mother has early been 
widowed either by the death of the hus- 
band or by separation or, what amounts to 
the same thing, there is an absence of love 
between the parents. Under these circum- 
stances the mother turns to her son as a 
love-object and lavishes upon him not only 
the love which under ordinary circum- 
135 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

stances would go out to him, but because 
another avenue of her love expression 
towards the husband has been closed, lav- 
ishes this additional quantum of love also 
upon her son. In this way the child gets 
too much love and, too, love which is not 
just a mother's love, but in addition a love 
which should have had an adult form of 
expression, namely, a sexual expression, as 
that is the kind of expression of which she 
has been deprived. Mother and son under 
these circumstances grow up more like 
sweethearts than like parent and child, and 
the quality of the mother's love offers such 
a pleasure-premium to the child that it is 
unable to detach itself from the mother as 
love-object and find a wife and independence. 
Such "mother's boys" are well known. 
They are wonderfully attentive to and ap- 
preciative of their mother, but remain in 
the household, never marrying. They are 
of gentle disposition and, from having been 
too much loved, are ill-adapted to with- 
stand the hard knocks of reality. They are 
therefore thin-skinned and sensitive to a 
degree and under severe stress may develop 
136 



THE FUNCTION OF THE PARENTS 

a psychosis. A mental upset may happen, 
too, when the mother dies because the love 
is not capable of detaching itself from her 
and becoming attached to another love- 
object. Or, on the other hand, the mother's 
death may free the child. Some of these 
mother's boys, it is worth noting, never are 
able freely to accept this domination of 
the mother love and their ordinarily af- 
fectionate conduct towards her may be 
interrupted by storms of reproach and 
violence, as if in a violent attempt to sep- 
arate themselves from what they feel to be 
a restricting and paralyzing influence. A 
similar picture might be drawn of the re- 
lation of father and daughter. 

This sort of relationship, too, does not 
need always to come about as a result of 
exactly the conditions described, but may 
result when the parent and child are 
brought into such relations from other 
causes. For example, an only child may 
be the occasion of such a crippling love, or 
if not an only child, then a favorite child, 1 

1 Or a child who, because of illness, has had an excessive 
amount of love lavished upon it. 

137 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

especially if the parents are not harmo- 
niously related, for it should be borne in 
mind that a great number of our neurotics, 
if not most of them, come from unhappy 
homes. The discord in the home has been 
absorbed by the child and later expresses 
itself in difficulties and failures of adjust- 
ment. Unhappiness thus propagates itself 
from generation to generation by more 
obvious means than by heredity. 

This fixation upon the mother has still 
further implications probably beyond that 
of a similar fixation upon the father. The 
mother not only represents love to the boy 
but love in general to the children of both 
sexes, and not only love but what is quite 
as important, protection. One has seen 
chickens run to get under the old mother 
hen's wings on the approach of a hawk. I 
am not aware that young chickens act any 
differently in this respect because of their 
sex. It is the same with young children. 
When trouble is in sight they seek the 
mother. The mother, therefore, comes to 
symbolize all of those protective features 
of the family and home. She becomes the 
138 



THE FUNCTION OF THE PARENTS 

goal on the regressive pathway. We orig- 
inally came from the mother, now upon 
the approach of danger we turn and go 
back to her. Much more than the father, 
then, she represents all those attachments 
of love and dependence with which the 
child, if it is to be successful, must break. 

Standing, therefore, as the goal in the re- 
gressive pathway, fixation upon the mother 
not only may mean a crippling dependence 
and an absence of ability to make good as 
an independent individual, but it sym- 
bolizes lack of character development in 
general. The strength of the fixation upon 
the mother thus becomes a measure of the 
degree of defect in character development. 
Complete dependence is equivalent to fail- 
ure and uselessness, lesser degrees corre- 
spond to less obvious and less severe 
defects. 1 

1 In the severe psychoses a complete regression to the mother 
is seen in those patients who sit with flexed limbs and arms, head 
and body bent forward with the chin resting on the breast, who 
are usually mute, seek dark corners, and are often inattentive to 
the calls of nature. They thus reproduce as nearly as possible 
that condition before birth when they still occupied a position 
within their mother's uterus and were thus quite completely 
protected from the invasions of the world of reality. 

139 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

On the opposite side of the ledger, so to 
speak, hate and antagonism to authority 
are exemplified perhaps most typically by 
the conflict between the boy and his father. 
While there is always more or less of such 
antagonism pretty completely veiled and 
unconscious or well out in the open as the 
case may be it may, in the presence of 
certain conditions, be very much empha- 
sized. If the father, for example, is an 
unusually unjust, severe and cruel parent, 
and if, too, he is especially cruel in his 
attitude towards the child's love-object, 
his mother, there may be an exaggerated 
reaction of hate which may determine a 
character trend which will ever afterwards 
be arrayed against all authority whether 
embodied in some individual, or, more 
abstractly, in the law and the functions of 
the State generally. This is of course a 
serious handicap, which makes for those 
reactions of antagonism that interfere with 
the ease of bringing about social contacts 
and the making of friends, and which build 
up an overwhelming egotism based on feel- 
ings of superiority and thus tend to isolate 
140 



THE FUNCTION OF THE PARENTS 

the individual, in all his affective adjust- 
ments and aspirations, from the other mem- 
bers of the herd, and so interfere with that 
degree of cooperation upon which the ef- 
fective organization of society is based. All 
this, to say nothing of those extreme re- 
actions which lead to actual destruction 
and antisocial conduct calculated to tear 
down the very structure of society (cer- 
tain anarchists and regicides, and also cer- 
tain varieties of severe psychotic manifes- 
tations) may flow from such beginnings. 
Unfortunately the death of the father or 
separation from him may not materially 
affect the character trait which was laid 
down early and became a deeply founded 
element of the personality makeup. 

As opposed to these love and hate reac- 
tions are their apparent opposites. The 
little boy, for example, emulates his father 
and aspires, when he grows up, to be like 
him in every way. So far as the father is 
worthy of emulation and sets a good ex- 
ample, and is worthy of being made such 
an ideal, well and good. Even here, how- 
ever, we have not fathomed the whole situ- 
141 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

ation if we rest with assuming the validity 
of the obvious. There are drawbacks even 
to such an apparently ideal situation. 

In the first place it is hardly to be ex- 
pected that the object of emulating the 
father would be a wholly unselfish one, es- 
pecially at this time of life. One of its 
deepest roots has as its object the complete 
possession of the mother's love and there- 
fore it is a jealousy motive. By emulating 
the father the boy identifies himself with 
him in his feelings and thus takes his place, 
in particular with relation to the mother 
the little boy's love-object. In this way 
the real object of the child is, by identify- 
ing himself with the father, to thus, indi- 
rectly, as it were, eliminate him from com- 
petition for the mother's love. It is not 
unusual for boys to say that when father 
dies they will marry mother. This is a 
way of bringing the desired end to pass 
without having to wait for the actual death 
of the parent. It is brought about by 
a trick of thinking. It is the phantasy 
method of making things happen by think- 
ing them so, and comes over from the period 



THE FUNCTION OF THE PARENTS 

of infancy when to the little infant things 
actually seemed to happen in this magic 
way. 

In the second place, this tendency to 
emulate the father is based upon a too 
complete domination of the child by the 
father. In the conflict between father and 
son, the son has succumbed to the more 
masterful father, who thus dominates him 
to such an extent that it may ever after 
be impossible for him to come into his 
own by an independent assertion of his 
own individuality. The conflict between 
parents and children is of use to this end, 
and a too complete victory of the parent 
is as unfortunate as the opposite, namely, 
incapacity on the part of the parent to 
control and direct the child. 

Parallel reactions are seen in the girl 
child, although perhaps identification with 
the mother is more frequent than the cor- 
responding phenomenon in the boy be- 
cause of the relatively more passive at- 
titude of the female, just as open rebellion 
is more common in the boy because of the 
more dominating character of the male 
143 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

libido. It is extraordinary the extent to 
which such identification may go. It some- 
times happens that this identification is 
quite complete for all the more important 
events in life. The marriage may be to 
the same sort of man (of course the father 
attachment is an additional motive here), 
the married life meets the same obstacles, 
and may go to pieces for the same reasons. 
Even the illnesses of the mother may be 
reproduced at about the same period of 
life and as a result of the same causes. 
All such phenomena are usually explained 
on the theory of heredity. I have indi- 
cated how they may be otherwise accounted 
for. 

If all this seems extraordinary and per- 
haps hardly possible it may help to recall 
how frequently the religion and the politics 
of the son are the same as the father's. 
If the son were asked why he holds the 
views he does on these two subjects his 
replies would be less convincing in pro- 
portion to his youth. Later in life he ac- 
quires a host of arguments for bolstering 
up his position but as a youth he would 
144 



THE FUNCTION OF THE PARENTS 

hardly be able to convince any one that he 
had any better reason than that his father 
was thus and so, and that, after all, would 
be the real explanation. Parents in this 
way pass on to their children their own 
traits copied in turn from their parents. 
Children are brought up and educated in the 
way that has become familiar by personal 
experience and so a theory of education is 
carried out by the father because he had 
learned it from his father. Thus are dog- 
mas, traits, habits of thought handed on 
from generation to generation. Some are 
good, some are bad, many are good at one 
time and bad at another, and in any event 
it all makes for that conservation of the 
structure of society which is such an im- 
portant element in its stabilization. 

The function of the parents in all this 
can be seen to require great nicety of judg- 
ment in steering themselves and the child 
between two extremes, either one of which 
may easily spell disaster. Too great af- 
fection may lead to a crippling fixation and 
dependence; too little, or an attitude of 
open hostility, may lead to an antagonism 
145 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

which drives the child away from the par- 
ents, anywhere, so long as it is away from 
parental control ; and because the energies 
are devoted blindly to getting away from 
somewhere rather than in going anywhere 
in particular, there is not that vision which 
protects from disaster. Is there any guid- 
ing principle that will point the way in this 
maze of difficulties ? 

In all the situations thus far sketched 
which lead to greater or lesser degrees of 
maladjustment some aspect of the situ- 
ation has appeared to be overloaded with 
emotion love or hate. For example, in 
the love of the widowed mother for an only 
son it would seem that too much love on 
the mother's part was what caused the 
retardation in the child's development. 
This implication has perhaps already im- 
pressed the reader unfavorably because it 
is difficult to conceive how there can be 
too much love, which is after all only an- 
other name for the great creative force. 
We must again look a little deeper into the 
situation. It may be that the child suf- 
fers from too much love but the too much 
146 



THE FUNCTION OF THE PARENTS 

love is love of a certain sort, as I have al- 
ready indicated. Such a love exacts a 
return from the child which overempha- 
sizes the relation to the mother, produces 
a fixation of its love upon her, and inter- 
feres with its development by standing in 
the way of that continuous choosing of 
different love-objects which will ultimately 
lead to the choice of a satisfactory partner 
and so free it from its infantile attachments. 
How is this to be corrected? 

The difficulty here is that the love of the 
mother for her child has added to the 
parental nature of that love another ele- 
ment. There cannot be too much love of 
the right sort, but the right sort of love in 
this relation is parental love. It is im- 
perative from the standpoint of the welfare 
of the child that the love expended by the 
parents should be of the nature of parental 
love and that the child should not be 
called upon to minister to the selfish 
needs of the parent. The use of the child by 
the parents for selfish purposes, as we shall 
see more fully in the next chapter, is one 
of the important sources of impairing the 
147 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

child in its future possibilities. The ex- 
ample given is an instance in point. 

The aims, objects, and tendencies of 
adults and children fundamentally differ. 
These differences give rise to the natural 
antagonism that maintains between them. 
The adult has lived through and beyond 
the period of childhood, and its activities as 
such are no longer of interest. The only 
reason they become of interest is because 
they are the activities of our children and 
as such have peculiar and personal bear- 
ings. What is the mechanism of this 
peculiar interest which is conditioned by 
the fact that the children are the children 
of the parents rather than children in 
general? That their activities are activ- 
ities of their children rather than just 
childhood activities? 

The love between parent and child has 
been glorified in literature but its opposite, 
the antagonism that maintains between 
them, seldom gets expression and yet this 
is no less real and no less important. 1 

1 Read in this connection Bernard Shaw's "Treatise on Par- 
ents and Children", written as a preface to his play " Misalliance." 

148 



THE FUNCTION OF THE PARENTS 

How does the natural antagonism between 
adult and child come to be nullified when 
the adult and child stand in the relation of 
parent and child? By a mechanism that 
is familiar to us all in its general aspects 
and is as important for the one as for the 
other. Youth remains always as a goal, 
something to be desired. With the pass- 
ing of youth there only too often goes the 
passing of opportunities and aspirations 
which become more and more difficult to 
lay aside as we grow older, in proportion to 
our failure to attain the ends in life which 
we have sought. Youth thus remains as 
a bit of that golden past when all things 
were possible which we would fain recall, 
particularly in the face of failure. There 
thus remains with all a natural sympathy 
with youth, albeit embittered, as it may 
be, by a life of failure. That element 
within us, therefore, which would still be 
youthful, which would still have the potency 
of younger years to fight the battles of life 
is projected upon the youth about us, and 
when that youth is represented by our own 
children it becomes a possibility of living 
149 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

our lives over again through them, often 
of overcoming in this way, by a renewed 
life, the obstacles which had conquered us 
in our childhood. Thus does the parent 
wish to have his child succeed where he 
failed, to make his child's path to success 
surer than had been his own. An added 
mechanism to this same end is conditioned 
by the fact that, owing to the workings of 
heredity which produces children like the 
parents, the father sees a replica of himself 
in his son, the mother a replica of herself 
in her daughter, and thus both parents are 
appealed to on the side of their ego-ideal 
(the remnants of their Narcissism), while the 
father sees in the daughter the replica of his 
wife as she was as a girl (his love-object) 
and similarly the mother sees in the son 
the coming to life again of her husband's 
youth. And so do we literally live our 
lives over again in our children, renew our 
youth, and by so doing satisfy our ideals 
for ourselves, our aspirations as reflected 
in our love-objects, and our efforts to at- 
tain immortality by warding off old age 
and regaining our youth. 
150 



THE FUNCTION OF THE PARENTS 

Such are the mechanisms of the love 
interests between parent and child which 
for the child produce those necessary qual- 
ities of parental love to protect and guide 
it during its period of helplessness, de- 
pendency, and development, and for the 
parents enable them to renew their youth 
and continue in later life those live inter- 
ests without which life would lose its 
savor. Happy indeed is the child whose 
parents have lived well rounded lives in 
which they have brought to pass the full 
fruition of the possibilities of their per- 
sonalities and thus surrounded the early 
years of their children with an atmosphere 
charged with the stimulus of success and 
not one that reflects the bitterness of failure. 
In such a medium the child can really blos- 
som out into a fully formed, efficient 
being, not the deformed and stunted char- 
acter which we see in the types of profound 
character defects. 



151 



CHAPTER X 
Historical Background 

AN account of the status of the child 
among the various races of man- 
kind, civilized as well as primi- 
tive, and of the way in which it has been 
treated, is one of the saddest pages of his- 
tory. And, too, it is especially disappoint- 
ing in that in the very places and among 
the very peoples whom we would expect to 
find, at least, that the simplest and most 
obvious rights of the child as we know 
them would be respected, even the right to 
live, we find on the contrary the child 
treated with the greatest cruelty. An ex- 
amination of the evidence shows clearly 
that parental affection, love, regard, and 
consideration for children as we know them 
are by no means qualities with which all 
human beings are born, but, like all other 
human attributes, they have attained their 



HISTORICAL BACKGROUND 

present state by a process of evolution and 
that they are in process of still further de- 
velopment. 

To understand the cruelty with which 
children through the ages and by all peoples 
have been treated, the essential fact to 
realize is that the child was felt to be the 
property of the parent and therefore could 
properly be disposed of as other property, 
and in any way that would benefit the 
parent. I will mention only the more im- 
portant points in the development of our 
present attitude towards the child. 

Among savages, for example, children 
are often deliberately murdered for one 
reason or another. In many cases, es- 
pecially under conditions of economic 
stress, scarcity of food or famine, or as a 
religious rite, children are killed and eaten. 
The Papuans of New Guinea kill and eat 
children, while among certain of the Aus- 
tralian tribes it was the custom for a 
mother to kill and eat her first-born on the 
theory that it strengthened her for later 
births. Among the Marquesans, who in- 
habit a group of islands to the southeast of 
153 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

Hawaii, children are killed and eaten by the 
parents in periods of great food scarcity. 
Children were killed and eaten in Japan 
during the great famine in 1783. 

The killihg and eating of children was 
often a part of a religious rite. Thus the 
early Israelites sacrificed their first-born 
and the child thus sacrificed to the God 
was eaten. In India it was the custom 
until recently to sacrifice the first-born to 
the Ganges while children were freely 
killed as a result of economic stress. Prim- 
itive man easily adopted the excuse of a 
religious rite to get rid of undesired chil- 
dren, and the existence of such reasons for 
sacrifice indicates that even so early it had 
to be a strong motive that would overcome 
the parental instinct, relatively weak as 
that instinct then was. Among the strong- 
est of the motives for infanticide were the 
economic, the difficulty of procuring suf- 
ficient food. In the process of keeping the 
population of the tribe within the limits 
prescribed by the necessities (scarcity of 
food) it was natural that those children 
that promised the greatest usefulness to 
154 



HISTORICAL BACKGROUND 

the tribe should be preserved and the 
others sacrificed. So, in addition to laws 
regulating the number of children that 
may be reared, the children that are mal- 
formed in any way are killed. Among 
warlike races it would be expected that the 
males would be of greatest value to the 
tribe, so Romulus pledged the people to 
bring up all males, except those that were 
lame or monstrous from birth. 

The sacrifice of children which grew out 
of economic necessity, lack of food, is 
understandable as means of self-preser- 
vation. The later limitation of the num- 
ber of children in a family and the sacri- 
fice of the deformed grow from the same 
source, though somewhat further removed. 
Such sacrifices constitute a sort of prim- 
itive eugenics. Later on the sacrifice of 
female children in warlike tribes is a still 
further adaptation of means to end, the 
use of sacrifice in a very definite way to 
further the avowed ends of the tribe. Still 
later in the history of sacrifice we find all 
sorts of substitutes for the human victim, 
particularly animal, which, among other 
155 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

things, permitted the parental instinct to 
more fully assert itself and develop. 

That infanticide was dependent largely 
upon feeble parental more particularly 
paternal instinct, which considered the 
child as an unwelcome burden is shown, 
not only by its more recent history, but by 
certain aspects of its early manifestations. 
The transparency of the excuse for yield- 
ing to the promptings of convenience seems 
to be obvious in such circumstances as 
killing a child born with teeth (Africa) ; 
born in stormy weather (Kamchatka) ; 
born on unlucky days (Madagascar). 
Among the Basute a child born feet first 
is killed ; among the Bondei it is killed if 
born head first. 

Throughout the ages infanticide has been 
terribly prevalent. Of course the reasons 
as already indicated have been many, re- 
ligious, for example, but they were at bot- 
tom largely selfish. It has been estimated 
that among the Dieijerie, a tribe of Aus- 
tralia, thirty per cent of children were 
killed by their mothers, for various reasons, 
at their birth. In China infanticide has 
156 



HISTORICAL BACKGROUND 

always been prevalent. Female children 
were often killed to avoid the necessity of 
later giving expensive wedding presents 
when they were married. In India infanti- 
cide was practiced ' on a large scale, it 
being the female child that was most apt 
to suffer, as the female child was held in 
little regard relatively. In parts of New 
South Wales, it was the female child that 
was killed if the reason was only to do 
away with a drain on the resources of the 
parent, while, if the reason were a religious 
one, the male child was chosen. The little 
value put on the child's life is well at- 
tested by the Salic law of the Franks, which 
provided that the killing of a child should 
be punished by a fine, the fine being regu- 
lated by the sex and the age of the child. 
For example, to kill a free girl before the 
age of twelve the fine was 200 sous, after 
the age of twelve 600 sous. 

The practice of infanticide is closely 
bound up with that of the selling of chil- 
dren for similar reasons (to get rid of them) 
and for profit. The old Roman law gave 
the father full and complete power over his 
157 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

children. He might put them to death or 
sell them into slavery. The story is told 
of an ancient Arabian who saved female 
children who were about to be buried alive, 
by purchase, the price being two she-camels, 
big with young, and one he-camel. Among 
the ancient Sumerians and Akkadians the 
parents were free to sell their children and 
these sales were apparently frequent. Chil- 
dren have often been sold under economic 
stress, particularly the female children for 
purposes of prostitution. 

Of course there are bright spots in this 
history. The Roman general, Agathocles, 
exacted as part of the terms of peace with 
the Carthaginians that they should cease 
the sacrifice of children. There was a royal 
proclamation issued in China in 1659 against 
the practice of drowning girl babies. Again 
in 1773 the Emperor Kien Long issued an 
edict against infanticide. The Emperor 
Tao Kang published an edict condemning 
the practice in 1845. In 1848 a strong ef- 
fort was made to stop the practice in 
Canton and further efforts during the 
reign of Koang Siu, which began in 1875, 
158 



HISTORICAL BACKGROUND 

were directed to the same end and warned 
the people to take their children to orphan 
asylums rather than throw them into the 
river. In the Roman Empire it was the 
Christians who from the first fought re- 
lentlessly against the crimes of killing and 
exposing children. 

In Europe as late as the seventh cen- 
tury children were sold for the means to 
obtain food, and children were even stolen 
in order to sell them. Matters had come 
to a similar pass in Italy and Gaul in the 
fifth century and children were sold, even 
though the parents knew they were selling 
them to be resold to the Vandals in Africa. 
This traffic reached such excesses that it 
was made the subject of an apostolic mis- 
sion by Gregory (who became Pope in 
590). The first really effective means to 
help this situation was the founding by 
Datheus, Archbishop of Milan, in 787, of 
an institution for the care of helpless chil- 
dren. In 1380 a similar institution was 
founded in Venice and one in Florence in 
1421. Many institutions of one sort and 
another were founded which cared for 
159 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

abandoned children, but all these move- 
ments seem to crystallize about Saint 
Vincent de Paul, as such movements usually 
do crystallize about a commanding per- 
sonality which stands out prominently 
from the rest. 

In the sixteenth and seventeenth cen- 
turies conditions in Europe were hideous 
indeed. Children were abandoned right and 
left. A few were left by the more humane 
mothers at the doors of hospitals and 
charitable institutions, but many were left 
by the roadside or cast into the sewers. 
The efforts made to correct these evils for 
the most part had little effect, although 
they were drastic enough. A girl who 
killed her offspring was hung and those 
caught leaving them in solitary places were 
whipped and disgraced in the towns where 
they lived. Almost worse than all this 
was the practice of deforming children for 
the use of mountebanks and beggars. The 
story is told that it was the horror occasioned 
by suddenly coming on a beggar deforming 
the limbs of a child that caused Saint Vin- 
cent de Paul to take up the cause of the 
160 



HISTORICAL BACKGROUND 

children of Paris. A few days after this 
incident he started his institution for 
children. Later on the success of this un- 
dertaking brought royal support, the king, 
Louis XIII, donating four thousand francs 
annually to its support. His example was 
followed by his widow, Anne of Austria, 
with an annual gift of eight thousand francs. 
In 1670 Louis XIV made the children's 
hospital one of the institutions of Paris. 

We now come to the period of the em- 
ployment of children, which gradually grew 
into the abuses of the modern factory sys- 
tem which began in the latter part of the 
eighteenth century with the invention of 
machinery for spinning and weaving. The 
employment of child labor and the abuse 
of the children so employed had occurred 
long before the so-called factory system 
came into being, but the factory, with its 
machinery and the great congestion of 
population which grew up about it because 
it could employ so many persons, with low 
wages, miserable living conditions, and 
many children, was the setting in which 
there developed the enslavement of the 
161 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

child to modern industry from which we 
are only now succeeding in emancipating 
it. The factory conditions under which 
children were employed were horrible .be- 
yond description, the children being slaves 
in all but name. In the seventeenth cen- 
tury in England children of six years of 
age were put to work. 

Children could do much of the work in 
the factories, as much of it was almost alto- 
gether mechanical and required little intel- 
ligence. Children were a source of cheap 
labor and, therefore, for economic purposes, 
were greatly sought. A veritable traffic in 
children grew up, mill owners bargaining 
with the agents of the poor for children al- 
most as blatantly as slaves were bought 
and sold in the South before the Civil War. 
These children were made to work long 
hours, even as long as twenty hours a day, 
and frequently they were kept at work all 
night. If they ran away they were beaten 
when caught and even chained. They 
were kept under the most atrocious sanitary 
conditions and the mortality among them 
was very high. 

162 



HISTORICAL BACKGROUND 

Another element that made these condi- 
tions possible was the miserable poverty of 
the people which forced them to put their 
children at work as early as possible in order 
that they might become a source of income 
to the family. The work was arduous and 
unhealthy, there was no time for recreation 
or play, nor of course for school, so that ill 
health and ignorance completed the vicious 
circle. 

But enough of this. The illustrations I 
have given are sufficient to show with 
what cruelty the child has been treated in 
the past and also to demonstrate the the- 
orem with which I started, that this cruelty 
was based upon a conceived right of owner- 
ship ; the child being considered as the 
property of the parents and of the State. 
In this country there was a society for the 
prevention of cruelty to animals (1823) 
before there was a society for the pre- 
vention of cruelty to children (1874). 

One of the notable landmarks in the 

struggle of the child for a recognition of its 

rights was the Decree of Napoleon (1811) 

which defined the duties of the State in 

163 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

relation to foundlings, abandoned children, 
and poor orphans. 

The struggle of the child for its rights 
has continued and made much progress in 
recent years. Children are now consid- 
ered to have rights which the State is bound 
to protect, and statutes exist in every com- 
munity which undertake to define them. 
They are not considered to be fully respon- 
sible for their acts and therefore punishable 
as is an adult. They no longer belong to 
their parents as formerly, arid though the 
parents exercise a guardianship over them 
it must not be administered inhumanly and 
brutally. In many communities child labor 
is forbidden either altogether or in certain 
unhealthy and unsanitary and exacting 
work. Parents are held responsible for 
their care and protection, and a public school 
system with compulsory attendance laws 
enforces minimum educational advantages. 
Special institutions exist in which the State 
assumes the parental duties. Special courts 
have been created for the consideration 
of juvenile delinquents. In the medical 
schools there are chairs in diseases of 
164 



HISTORICAL BACKGROUND 

children (pediatrics). The hospitals and 
private philanthropy have been organized 
to help save the babies by milk stations, 
sending them into the country and on boat 
excursions in hot weather. There are incu- 
bators to preserve prematurely born babies, 
and abortion is a crime. Psychology has 
developed a department devoted to the 
study of the mind of the child. Children 
have acknowledged rights before the courts. 
Public schools provide the great majority 
with educational facilities. Public play- 
grounds are a recognition of the right of 
the child to play. If these benefits and 
acknowledgments, and many others that 
might be named, are irregularly distributed 
and sadly lacking in some places, and if 
we still find child labor under conditions 
we had believed long since abolished, and 
if ignorance and cruelty still reap a har- 
vest of child lives, it nevertheless is true 
that the great battle for recognition of the 
rights of the child has been won and these 
evidences that the world was not all changed 
at once are but the remnants of what is 
fast passing away to make this century in 
165 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

fact, what it is already proclaimed "the 
century of the child." 

Further progress must take place along 
the lines I have indicated in the previous 
chapters, that is, along the lines of a more 
precise examination into the psychology of 
the child, of the parent, and the relation 
between them. A generation ago such a 
suggestion could not have been expected to 
bear much fruit. All of the major and, I 
might say, massive reforms which I have 
enumerated had first to be worked out 
and made practical before those greater re- 
finements which I have sketched in this 
book could find a place for consideration. 
They have come in for consideration now, 
though, because the background has been 
prepared for them by these earlier develop- 
ments. What are some of the prospects for 
the future ? 

We have seen the painful growth of a 
recognition of the rights of the child de- 
velop from a period in which it was con- 
ceived to belong, in the full sense that any 
property belongs, to the parents and the 
State to use as they saw fit: to kill as an 
166 



HISTORICAL BACKGROUND 

incumbrance ; to sell, perhaps into virtual 
slavery or worse, for profit; to bind out 
at hard labor as a source of income; to 
deny it rights, privileges, and consider- 
ations which were often granted to an- 
imals. We have seen all this change, 
until now the fundamental rights of the 
child are recognized. Through free dis- 
pensaries, playgrounds, dental clinics, med- 
ical inspection of the schools, sanitary tene- 
ment laws, and in many other ways, its 
physical health is safeguarded, while com- 
pulsory education provides a minimum in- 
tellectual equipment. In what direction 
may we expect further progress? 

In general this question may be answered 
by saying through a deeper understand- 
ing of the child by the adult, and therefore 
a deeper sympathy with its problems, and 
both a greater desire and a greater capacity 
to help. 

The few historical facts I have cited show 
that the failure of the child to get recogni- 
tion is due to the fact that the parents feel 
that they own it and therefore treat the 
child solely as a means of immediate pleas- 
167 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

ure and profit. I have also shown that it 
is only when it, the child, is really brought 
up with a sole eye to its own welfare, not 
that of the parents, that the parents really 
reap the greatest possible reward through 
their children, that is, they are able to live 
over again, and thus renew, their youth by 
seeing the world again through the eyes of 
their children. I have only to add that 
this change is the universally necessary 
change in all cultural development, namely, 
the putting off of satisfaction into an ever- 
receding future. 

Selfishness and altruism are relative 
terms and refer really to the immediacy 
with which the satisfaction of desire is 
demanded. The parents who sell their 
children into slavery demand immediate 
returns, and by that same token the re- 
turn must be concrete (money). The par- 
ents who desire the greatest good of their 
children wish to see them develop into use- 
ful and efficient adults and correspondingly 
the results are put off until a relatively re- 
mote time and are more spiritual in char- 
acter. The former parents we say are 
168 



HISTORICAL BACKGROUND 

selfish and the latter altruistic, but we might 
better view the two sets of parents as at 
different stages of culture and therefore de- 
manding different results to satisfy them. 
The latter parents surely reap the greater 
reward and could be called the more selfish 
only if their conduct were consciously di- 
rected to deriving the greatest possible 
gain. In reality we prefer to look upon 
them as more unselfish and their greater 
reward the reward that comes to unselfish- 
ness. 

The maternal instinct has been said to 
be the single element in man's nature 
which has made civilization possible as we 
know it, inasmuch as it Ls the basis of all 
so-called altruistic or not purely self-seeking 
sentiments. This is perhaps quite true if we 
enlarge the term " maternal instinct " to 
mean the parental instinct, for no practical 
basis of a society that involved mutual co- 
operation could be worked out on a foun- 
dation of purely selfish gratification as we 
ordinarily use that concept. Mutual co- 
operation involves a certain amount of 
sacrifice of individual interests to the in- 
169 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

terests of the group, and the prototype of 
such self-sacrifice may well be the sacri- 
fice that the parents have to make to the 
interests of their offspring. It is, of course, 
necessary to maintain the integrity of the 
group, for only if it is maintained are those 
conditions created that make possible the 
largest development and fulfillment of the 
individual. A man, for example, can only 
pursue his own particular tastes because the 
society of which he is a part creates a 
milieu in which that is both possible and 
safe. The accumulation of property is 
only possible because society protects him 
from invasion ; he on the other hand has 
to contribute (taxes) to support the police 
agencies of society. An artist can only 
pursue his art in a relatively peaceful society 
where there is an overplus of production 
and therefore a surplus to expend in art. 
In a tribe fighting for its very existence the 
artist would have to function as a warrior. 
His interest is therefore in peace, indus- 
trialism, and the accumulation of wealth, 
towards which he must contribute his 
share. 

170 



HISTORICAL BACKGROUND 

This sacrifice of the individual, this put- 
ting aside of immediate satisfaction for the 
interests of the group, the putting aside of 
something that is wanted now for some- 
thing of far greater value which can only 
be achieved at some time in the future, 
perhaps never, is not only a condition of 
cultural development, but is a condition 
which itself develops. First, it is only the 
cruder desires for immediate satisfaction 
that are put aside, then progressively the 
less and less crude desires : at first, satisfac- 
tion is only put off for a short time and 
then further and further into the future. 
And so ideals grow with advance in culture, 
always outstripping man in his progress, 
always beckoning him on to further effort, 
further conquests. What will the future 
offer in the way of further refinements in 
the development of what we have learned is 
basically the paternal instinct? 

We have come, in recent years, to a 
wholly new concept of the meaning of the 
several varieties of failure which we see 
among men, especially such failures as are 
comprised in what are in general termed 
171 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

the defective, dependent, and delinquent 
classes. These include the so-called in- 
sane, the so-called criminal, and the various 
types of defectives that may not be clas- 
sified with either of the other two groups. 
The great majority of these groups which 
make up by far the largest part of that 
enormous array of failures that sooner or 
later come to be public charges, we are 
coming to realize are sufferers from some 
kind of mental illness, and such illnesses 
may for the most part be most profitably 
considered as founded upon a defective 
basis. The defective group (idiots, im- 
beciles, morons, backward children, con- 
stitutionally inferior and psychopathic per- 
sonalities) are admittedly defective. A 
great number of the criminal reactions are 
recognized as essentially childish and in- 
fantile in character. Among the so-called 
insane the defective basis of the reactions 
is not so easily recognized because they are 
overlaid with such manifest distortions, but 
analysis demonstrates that at basis they 
are dependent upon fixations, in the sense 
I have already used this term, and there- 
172 



HISTORICAL BACKGROUND 

fore are due to a failure to develop in more 
circumscribed aspects of the personality as 
a result. From this point of view, the es- 
sentially defective, that is infantile, child- 
like factor which is at the basis of these 
several types of reaction, it can be seen that 
we are dealing in them over again with the 
problem of the child, only the problem is 
very greatly disguised because it occurs, so 
to speak, in an adult setting. When a man 
of forty or fifty reacts like a child of, say 
ten, the adulthood of the man blinds our 
eyes to the infantile character of his re- 
action. 

It is strangely interesting and confirm- 
atory of this point of view that the history 
of the treatment of the defectives, the in- 
sane, and the criminals has been the same 
sort of history as has been the history of 
the treatment of the child. It has been 
marked by the same sorts of cruelty, the 
same lack of understanding, and the re- 
forms which have recently come about are 
motivated by the same feelings of sympa- 
thy and responsibility, the same sort of 
pity and love which have prompted the 
173 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

philanthropists who have helped the child 
come into its rights. In other words I 
believe that the emotional attitude that is 
at the bottom of prison reform and the re- 
form movements in the care of the insane 
is again the parental instinct which seeks the 
good of these others rather than the grat- 
ification of selfish desire. 

If I am right in identifying the motive 
at the bottom of the reforms indicated as 
the parental instinct I believe it will be of 
great value to recognize it as such. 

Further advances in civilization and 
culture imply further development of that 
spirit of cooperation which involves the 
sacrifice of immediate satisfaction and 
which, as I have indicated, is founded in 
the parental instinct. The further develop- 
ment of possibilities along these lines will 
mean a handling of all of the social prob- 
lems of the defective, dependent, and de- 
linquent classes from the platform of love 
rather than hate. Opportunity will be 
given to all to develop the best that is 
in them rather than subjecting them to a 
system of repressions which is solely di- 
174 



HISTORICAL BACKGROUND 

reeled to destroying what is bad in them. 
The program will be constructive and not 
just repressive. Punishment, if used, will 
be carefully devised to attain well defined 
constructive ends and not be an expres- 
sion of hate and vindictiveness as it now 
usually is. All of these aims and objects 
are precisely the same as the aims and 
objects in bringing up children, namely, 
they are calculated to bring about the 
best results rather than to serve as emo- 
tional outlets (anger, hate, resentment, 
etc.) for the parents or for society (as 
directed against the criminal). 

A really constructive program for the 
treatment of the social problems created 
by the divers forms of failure, that is, one 
that grows out of love (if not love of the 
criminal, for example, then love in a sub- 
limated form for the sciences which are 
engaged in the various problems of crim- 
inology) rather than one that grows out of 
hate, which is always destructive, would 
save an enormous amount of energy for 
society which now runs to waste. Such a 
program will grow as a result of the de- 
175 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

velopment of those same qualities of mind 
and heart which make parenthood success- 
ful. Such diverted parental interests will 
evolve hand-in-hand with the evolution of 
the parent-child relation and will offer a 
substitute for that relation to many who 
through circumstances have been deprived 
of the blessing of children. As a social 
force it is important to recognize its origin 
and having done so to direct a more in- 
tensive study to discovering its various 
mechanisms to the end that it may be 
utilized to the best advantage. 

The parent-child relation, the rudiments 
of which I have laid down in this volume, 
needs now to be studied with greater care 
because the demands of a complex civi- 
lization are ever becoming greater. As 
these demands grow they require greater 
efficiency on the part of the individual in 
meeting them. The appreciation of this 
need is outwardly recognized by a grad- 
ually increasing length of the period of 
preparation for life, until now the boy is not 
ready to commence a professional career 
until he is about twenty-five years of age. 
176 



HISTORICAL BACKGROUND 

Time expended in preparation, however, 
will not alone produce the greatest possible 
results. I have pointed out the evils of 
fixation at infantile levels. Such fixations 
operate to hamper the fullest expression of 
the individual, to impair the character of 
his work and limit its output throughout 
his life. It, therefore, becomes of the 
greatest importance, in view of the in- 
creased demands which life is making upon 
the individual, to study this aspect of his 
preparation for life with the object of 
making it possible for him to live his 
life at his best, unhampered by the pre- 
ventable. 

Next to the actual improvement of the 
parent-child relation the most important 
opportunity for applying the results of a 
knowledge of the psychology of the child 
is in the field of education. Education in- 
volves only an extension of parental con- 
trol in certain specialized directions with 
the teacher as parent surrogate. Education 
will then become more of a process of help- 
ing the child to develop the powers within 
it, to unfold its personality, than a system 
177 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

of crowding back tendencies that are strug- 
gling for expression (repression). 

In this threefold way then does the sub- 
ject of the parental instinct present itself : 
in the parent-child relation ; in the educa- 
tional situation ; and in sublimated forms 
in its wider social bearings. 

To this point has the discussion of the 
Mental Hygiene of Childhood led, namely, 
to an attempt to define somewhat of the 
nature of the parental instinct, for surely 
a regime could hardly be projected for the 
child to follow of its own initiative. A 
mental hygiene of childhood, therefore, is 
dependent upon the parent, and an exam- 
ination of the springs of parental attach- 
ment which will help the parents to a bet- 
ter understanding of themselves and of their 
affective orientation to their children is of 
most value to the child. 1 

1 For the historical facts referred to in this chapter I am in- 
debted to "The Child in Human Progress", by George Henry 
Payne. G. P. Putnam's Sons, New York, 1916. 



178 



CHAPTER XI 
Conclusion 

IN the preceding pages I have tried 
to describe the development of the 
child as depending upon the inter- 
play between certain fundamental tenden- 
cies (instincts) as they come into rela- 
tion with the problems presented to them 
by the world of reality. Of this world of 
reality I have indicated that the parents 
play by far the most important part in 
conditioning those earliest responses to 
these instinctive tendencies which thus 
become the prototypes for later conduct. 
In doing this I have laid stress upon two 
matters which are ordinarily not discussed, 
in fact are usually treated as if they did not 
exist at all. I refer to the developing sex- 
uality of the child and the antagonism be- 
tween parents and children. 

The sexuality of the child has always 
179 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

been avoided and if referred to is consid- 
ered as quite an impossible and unthink- 
able assumption. The ideal of the child 
which has been perpetuated in the popular 
mind is one of innocence and simplicity. 
I have indicated how the feeling of un- 
cleanness may become associated with sex- 
uality and also how unfortunate such an 
association may be. In the bitter struggle 
of man to reach ever higher altitudes it 
was necessary that his instincts be power- 
fully repressed by every device available 
and it was this profound repression that 
has led to such false ideals of the nature 
of childhood as deny to that period of life 
any sexual inclinations. Science, however, 
recognizes that an instinct so complex as 
the sexual instinct cannot come forth in- 
stantly and full blown at the period of 
puberty. It must have come from some- 
where, that is, it must have developed 
from small beginnings ; it must have been 
present before but in the making. Such 
a concept as that the child has no sexual- 
ity, therefore, cannot be a basis for an 
intelligent dealing with children. We can- 
ISO 



CONCLUSION 

not learn to deal with a situation by at- 
tempting to deal with it as if it was some- 
thing which it is not. We would soon come 
to grief if we tried to deal with oil as if it 
were water, if we had a fire to put out. 
It is equally as dangerous to be blind to 
the sexuality of the child as it is to be 
blind to the inflammability of oil when we 
have a fire to deal with. By such blind- 
ness parents over and over again allow 
their children to get into all sorts of situ- 
ations of danger and ultimately to come to 
grief simply because they cannot bring 
themselves to acknowledge that their chil- 
dren have such inclinations. Other children 
might be so inclined but certainly not theirs. 
Their children have always been so care- 
fully brought up, have never been per- 
mitted bad associates, have been taught all 
the proprieties and all the rest of it. The 
physician sees only too often the tragic 
results of such blindness. 

The matter of the antagonism between 

parents and children is a similar one in 

some respects. The ideal of a home has 

been fostered in which the loving attach- 

181 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

ment between its several members is em- 
phasized and overemphasized because again 
it has been necessary for man, in order 
to succeed in his aspirations, to blind him- 
self to certain aspects of reality (repres- 
sion). He made himself realize his ideal 
of the home by believing that all mani- 
festations not in accord with it were wrong. 
And so the home has grown up along the 
path marked out for it by the necessities 
of repression. Man has conquered by con- 
quering himself. By emphasizing certain 
aspirational values of union beyond his 
power to attain, he has been able finally to 
bring his ideal into view and even to effect 
it, and so to develop away from relative 
promiscuity into that form of monogamous 
union which has made the family the unit 
of a progressing social organization. 

Advance always takes place in this way, 
by stages, each succeeding stage reaching a 
higher level because it is endeavoring to 
attain a higher ideal. Each stage on the 
way reaches its own solutions of the prob- 
lems presented to it which the succeeding 
stage leaves behind for new solutions. 
182 



CONCLUSION 

Now that the belief in the freedom from 
sexuality of the child has served its pur- 
pose as a factor in that repression of sex- 
uality which has helped to bring about an 
ideal of sexual morality that has fostered 
the growth of the family and made for 
monogamous unions, the time is ripe for 
a further examination of the facts. We 
know now that the ignorance of sexuality 
which has been fostered has in it ele- 
ments of positive danger because both 
parents and children are thus blinded to 
pitfalls that may have most serious conse- 
quences, and so sexual enlightenment has 
become an end that is being definitely rec- 
ognized as desirable. Similarly, now that 
the ideal of family union has become stabi- 
lized it is coming to be recognized that the 
family situation, as such, has elements in 
it of a disruptive nature which must be 
taken cognizance of, if still further ad- 
vances are to be made in the development 
of the family as the social unit. 

These two factors, sexual enlightenment 
and a recognition of the fundamental an- 
tagonism between parents and children, 
183 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

are, to my mind, the points of attack 
from which further developments must 
radiate. A lack of recognizing them re- 
sults in certain types of character distor- 
tions, which I have indicated in these pages, 
and which result because the energy which 
is bound up in the repressions can, so to 
speak, come up on our blind side and so pro- 
duce effects which, because they are of un- 
conscious origin, are unknown to us and 
cannot be brought into the field of conscious 
direction and control. By an examination 
of their mechanisms we can make these 
conscious and therefore can bring them 
under the domination of our intelligence ; 
or in other words, we can now safely re- 
lease the energy bound up in the repres- 
sions which can then be used for still further 
advances on the path of development. 

The ideals which have been formulated 
thus far have served as guiding stars in 
man's struggle upward and have obtained 
invaluable results. These results have now 
been so firmly fixed in our ways of thinking 
that the time is opportune for taking stock 
anew, for finding out exactly just what has 
184 



CONCLUSION 

really been accomplished with the view of 
seeing whether new adjustments are not 
possible which will help along to still bet- 
ter things. A study of the failures of life 
and of the mechanisms which have brought 
them about has disclosed hitherto un- 
known and unexpected errors in our way 
of evaluating the factors involved in the 
development of the individual. What 
these errors are I have indicated. Their 
correction will have the effect of removing 
obstacles to further advance. The old 
ideals are by no means to be abolished but 
replaced by something better; in fact it is 
even better not to think of replacing the 
old ideals, for that would imply that they 
were wrong. As I have indicated, the old 
ideals were not, are not wrong ; they have 
rendered invaluable service, they are to be 
replaced, superseded only in the sense that 
they are to be more fully rounded out, 
completed by relieving them from certain 
implications which we now recognize as 
false. 

The idea that the child is a sexless hu- 
man being is wrong and when, because 
185 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

of its sexual tendencies it goes in wrong 
directions, the idea that it is vicious, im- 
moral and anti-social is also wrong. Sex- 
uality represents a perfectly normal tend- 
ency without which the race would perish. 
When the child is sidetracked by this tend- 
ency it is wrong to apply adult standards 
of evaluation to the resulting conduct. 
The child is not immoral, it is amoral, it is 
not anti-social it is asocial. It has not 
yet developed to that stage in which moral 
and social standards are recognized. It 
should not, therefore, be thought of as 
having gone wrong because of innate de- 
pravity but as having failed because a 
great force has not been properly utilized. 
Its perfectly normal tendencies have gone 
astray because it has not been possible to 
properly direct them. The experiments 
and excursions of the child into what are 
usually considered to be forbidden fields 
need to be recognized as the child's blind 
efforts to arrive, and as affording oppor- 
tunities for direction by the parents rather 
than as activities that call only for the 
administering of punishment. Out of a 
186 



CONCLUSION 

study of the sexuality of the child arise, 
then, new problems in its direction, and 
the utilization of this great force for con- 
structive ends, problems of education, of 
bringing up. These problems are not easy 
of solution. It is much easier, ostrich-like, 
to stick one's head in the sand of prejudice 
and be blind to the facts. To see the facts 
and to deal with them requires intelligence, 
effort, love, self-sacrifice, and makes much 
greater demands upon the parent. Par- 
ents will first have to learn to see the facts 
and having learned to see them will then 
have to learn to deal with them. The 
force must first be recognized and then 
directed. It is a process of growth and 
development of viewpoints and of capacity. 
It makes great demands upon the parents 
and will be of inestimable benefit to their 
children, not only as children but later as 
adults freed from the domination of their 
infantile sexuality which has never had a 
chance to grow up. Freedom from sexual 
repressions does not mean freedom in the 
sense of license to go counter to the con- 
ventions ; it means freedom from tendencies 
187 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

of unknown, unconscious origin, and full 
control of one's own powers; it means being 
the captain of one's soul. 

Similarly the emphasis on the antag- 
onism of parents and children does not 
mean that the old ideal, that excludes this, 
is wrong. It means adding to the old ideal 
the facts of this antagonism and recogniz- 
ing the necessity on which it is based, 
namely, the necessity of emancipation. 
The recognition of this necessity and the 
ability to make it a part of our actual 
methods of dealing with our children will 
do away forever with that most dangerous 
of assumptions on the part of the parents 
that their children belong to them to do 
with as they will. The idea of the owner- 
ship of children by their parents perhaps 
served a purpose originally in securing for 
them a home and some measure of pro- 
tection, but it is needed no longer for such 
a purpose. Having done what it could 
in the course of development it now stands 
as an obstacle to further advance. The 
new ideal of parenthood will be a trustee- 
ship for coming generations and the parents 
188 



CONCLUSION 

will get their reward in proportion to their 
ability to discharge that trusteeship cred- 
itably. I have indicated the further ram- 
ifications of this new ideal in the relations 
of society to the dependent, defective, and 
delinquent classes. These classes will come 
to be recognized not only, as they now are, 
as liabilities, but also as assets because 
they offer the concrete opportunities for 
the exercise of those higher virtues upon 
which the future of society so much de- 
pends. 

The mental hygiene of the child is in 
the hands of the parent. For generations, 
in fact always, children have been brought 
up by their parents with little or no realiza- 
tion that the art of parenthood was some- 
thing that could itself be developed. The 
functions of the parents have been exer- 
cised largely in a blind and instinctive way, 
and the results have depended upon their 
natural capacities, insight, and love; and 
such improvement as has taken place has 
been the natural result of better parents 
rather than the result of any special efforts 
directed to the solution of the specific prob- 
189 



THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD 

lems. Now comes along science, which has 
illuminated so many things in this age of 
efficiency, and throws its light into the 
dark places of age-long customs. We may 
expect that many errors will be disclosed 
and as they are and the faulty practices 
which grew out of them corrected there 
will result a better society. 



190 



INDEX 



ABANDONMENT OP CHILDREN, 

160 

Activities, regressive, 58 
Adjustment to environment, 19 
Adult and child, differences of, 

16 

Affection of parents, 145 
Altruism, 168 
Anthropomorphism, 3 
Anti-vivisectionists, 118 
Auto-erotic activities, 29 
Auto-erotism, 60, 127 

BEHAVIORISTS, 21 

CHARACTER, 85 

Child and adult, differences of, 

16 

Child as property, 153 
Child, adult's attitude towards, 
3 

the concept, 4 

linkage with past, 6, 7 

more than an individual, 84 

not a small adult, 2 

relation to parents, 5 
Child murder, 153, 154 
Conduct, 85 
Conscience, 129 
Creative energy, 77 
Cruelty, 49, 57 
Cultural development, 171 
Curiosity, 48, 51, 58, 98 



DEATH, 33, 72 
Death wish, 73 
Deforming children, 160 
Development, goal of, 76 
Disgust, 54, 55, 56 
Disillusionment, period of, 71 
Dolls, 42, 124 
Domination motive, 31 

EATING OF CHILDREN, 153, 154 

Education, 90, 91, 92, 93, 94, 

110, 177 
goal of, 95 
two aspects of, 93 

Educational methods, 93 

Ego-ideal, 128, 150 

Ego-instinct, 22, 23, 39, 79, 80, 

81 
object of, 22 

Emancipation, 74 

Emotion, 146 

Employment of children, 161, 
162, 163 

Emulation, 68, 141, 142, 143 

Energy, creative, 38 

Environment, effect of on in- 
dividual, 10, 11 

Exhibitionism, 57 

Experiences, earliest, 10, 11, 34, 
35, 36, 44, 45, 46, 47 

Expression, 58 



FAILURES, SOCIAL, 171, 172 



191 



INDEX 



Family, ideal of, 183 
importance of, 65 

Family situation, 64 

Father, 36, 66 
antagonism to, 49 
conflict with, 140, 141 

Fixation, 106, 125, 177 

Freedom, 120, 187 

GERM PLASM, 4, 6 

Gluttony, 27 

Goals, fictitious, 111 

Group versus the individual, 170 

HATE, 87 

Heredity, 7, 8, 9, 52, 70, 87, 134 
Heterosexual components, 62 
Heterosexuality, 61, 83 
Home, the, 89 
Homes, unhappy, 138 
Homosexual barrier, 116 
Homosexual components, 62 
Homosexuality, 61, 62, 83 
Household, 41 
Hunger, 39 

IDEALS, 184, 185 

Ideas as organs, 93 

Identification, 3, 69, 70, 87, 142, 
143, 144 

Incest barrier, 116 

Incest, horror of, 115 

Individual, the concept, 2 
effect of, on environment, 12 
versus the group, 170, 171 

Infancy, period of, 44 

Infanticide, 156, 157 

Infantile reactions, 173 

Inferiority, feeling of, 25 

Instinct, maternal, 169 



paternal, 174 
Instincts, 21, 39 

influence of, in choosing a 

vocation, 106, 107, 108 
Interest, 20, 86 

in our own body, 117 
Interests, 37, 88 

of herd, 81 

of individual, 80 

JEALOUSY, 49, 67, 68, 73 

LATENCY PERIOD, 53, 94 

Life and death, 34 

Life force, 87 

Life, problem of, 77, 78 

Love, 61, 65, 115 

Love interests, 41, 42, 43, 123, 

151 
Love life, 134 

MASTURBATION, 29, 57, 82 
Maternal instinct, 169 
Memory, 17 

lack of, for period of infancy, 

113, 130 
Mother, 36, 41, 66 

fixation upon the, 138, 147 
Murder of children, 153, 154 

NARCISSISM, 61, 63, 127, 150 
Nurse, 116 

OBJECT LOVE, 61 
Omnipotence, 75 

unconditioned, 80 
Only child, the, 135, 136, 137 

PARENT, AS TYPE, 69 
Parental instinct, 28, 174 



192 



INDEX 



Parents, 87 

and children, antagonism be- 
tween, 181, 182 

domination by, 143 

function of, 133, 134, 145 

the incomparable, 67 

infantile images of, 75 

sacrifices by the, 170 

selfishness of, 147 
Past, the, 79 
Patronizing, 100, 130 
Perceptions, primitive world of, 

36 
Personality, development of, 32 

distortions of, 125 
Phantasies, 71 
Play, 60, 123, 124, 125, 126 
Pleasure motive, 31 
Pleasure-pain motive, 80, 81, 82, 

83 

Projection, 85 
Prudery, 121 

Psycho-analytic school, 21 
Psychology, academic, 20 
Puberty, 57 
Punishment, 109, 110, 175 

objects of, 109 

as reaction of anger, 110 

RACE-PRESERVATIVE INSTINCT, 

22, 27, 81 
Reality, 88 
Regression, 139 
Repression, 53, 56, 94, 95, 96, 

97, 98, 105, 113, 178 
energy of, 97, 184 

SACRIFICE OF CHILDREN, 154, 

155 
Safety motive for conduct, 25 



Saint Vincent de Paul, 160 
Selfishness, 25, 40, 48, 49, 51, 

56, 168 

Selling of children, 157, 158, 159 
Self-preservative instinct, 22, 23 
Selves, other, 50 
Sensation, 20, 21 
Sensations, double, 45 
Sex, 39 

Sex instinct, 22, 27, 81, 82 
frustrations of, 29 
object of, 22 
Sexual instinct, repression of, 

112 
Sexuality of child, 113, 114, 179, 

180, 181 
Sexuality forbidden as "nasty", 

119, 120 

Sexuality, ignorance of, 183 
Sexuality needs to be dignified, 

119, 121 
Shame, 54 

absence of, 47, 48 
Society, 51 
Society for prevention of cruelty 

to children, 163 
Sublimation, 59, 60, 94 
Suicide, 70 

TEACHER, 177 

UNTRUTHFULNESS or PARENTS, 
103 

VARIATIONS, REGION OF, 15 

"WILL TO POWER", 31 
Wish, the, 21 



YOUTH AS A GOAL, 149 



193 



MIND AND HEALTH SERIES 



A SERIES of Medical Handbooks written by emi- 
JL\ nent specialists and edited by H. ADDINGTON 
BRUCE, A.M., and designed to present the results of 
recent research and clinical experience in a form in- 
telligible to the lay public and medical profession. 

1. HUMAN MOTIVES. By JAMES JACKSON PUTNAM, 
M.D., Professor Emeritus, Diseases of the Nervous System, 
Harvard University ; Consulting Neurologist, Massachusetts 
General Hospital, Boston. 179 pages. 12mo. $1.35 net. 

A study of human conduct, using both the philosophical and the Freu- 
dian psychoanalytic methods of approach, with most attention to the latter 
method. A. L. A. Booklist. 

2. THE MEANING OF DREAMS. By ISADOB H. COBIAT, 
M.D., First Assistant Visiting Physician, Nervous Diseases, 
Boston City Hospital. 194 pages. 12mo. $1.35 net. 

The many examples that are analyzed and explained are taken from cases 
that have come under the author's observations. A. L. A. Booklist. 

3. SLEEP AND SLEEPLESSNESS. By H. ADDINGTON 
BRUCE, A.M. 219 pages. 12mo. $1.35 net. 

Popular chapters on the various theories of sleep and dreams ; disorders 
of sleep, dreams and the supernatural ; and on the causes and treatment of 
sleeplessness. A. L. A. Booklist. 

4. THE INFLUENCE OF JOY. By GEORGE VAN NESS 
DEARBORN, A.M., Ph.D., M.D. 223 pages. 12mo. $1.35 net. 

Presents the latest findings as to the effects of joy on the human organ- 
ism. The writer gives sensible, easily understood suggestions to students 
and teachers and something of the psychology underlying the suggestions. 
A. L. A. Booklist. 



MIND AND HEALTH SERIES 



(CON TINU ED) 

5. NERVOUSNESS: ITS CAUSES, TREATMENT AND 
PREVENTION. By L. E. EMERSON, Ph.D., Psychologist, 
Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston. 184 pages. 12mo. 
$1.35 net. 

A popular, psychological discussion of nervousness, and its treatment by 
psychoanalysis and mental readjustment. It should be of help to the ner- 
vous sufferer. A good introduction to the Freudian theory. A. L. A. 
fooklitt. 

6. THE MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD. By 

WILLIAM A. WHITE, M.D., Superintendent of St. Elizabeths 
Hospital, Washington, D. C. 193 pages. 12mo. $1.35 net. 

A brilliant study of the psychology of childhood that analyzes the mental 
life of the child and shows parents how it may best be cultivated. 



IN PREPARATION 



FEAR AND ITS CONSEQUENCES. By BOBIS SIDIB, M.D., Director 
of the Sidis Psychotherapeutic Institute, Portsmouth, N. H. 

INSANITY AND ITS PREVENTION. By M. S. GBBQOBT, M.D., 
Resident Alienist, Bellevue Hospital, New York. 

DREADS AND OBSESSIONS. By Dr. J. W. COUBTNBT, Physician- 
in-Chief, Department of the Diseases of the Mind and Nervous System, 
Carney Hospital, Boston. 

THE CONQUEST OF LAZINESS. By ABTHUB HOLMES, Dean of 
Pennsylvania State College. 



LITTLE, BROWN & CO., PUBLISHERS 

34 BEACON STREET, BOSTON 



H 



4 -a 







_J 


University of Toronto 








Library 


a 


j 




DO NOT Jr 


ORROtt 


<i 




REMOVE / 


03 
O 


1 




THE 


H 


Js 






* 


F 


^> 


CARD 
FROM ^ 




<ey 


^ 


THIS \ 




& 


= 


POCKET \, 


DATE. 


$ 

s 


C 

rv, 

X 


Acme Library Card Pocket 

Under Pat. "Ref. Index File" 
Made by LIBRARY BUREAU 



