PHYSIOLOGY 

AND NATIONAL 
NEEDS 




PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 



ANIMAL LIFE AND HUMAN PROGRESS 

EDITED BY 

PROFESSOR ARTHUR DENDY, D.Sc., F.R.S. 

Demy 8vo. 10s. 6d. net. 



CONTENTS 

Man's Account with the Lower Animals. By ARTHUR 
DENDY, D.Sc., F.R.S., Professor of Zoology in the 
University of London. 

Some Educational and Moral Aspects of Zoology. 13y 
GILBERT C. BOURNE, M.A., D.Sc., F.R.S., Fellow of 
Merton College, Oxford, and Linacre Professor of 
Zoology and Comparative Anatomy. 

Museums and Research. By C. TATE REGAN, M.A., 
F.R.8., of the British Museum (Natural History). 

Man and the Web of Life. By J. ARTHUR THOMSON, 
M.A., LL.D., Professor of Zoology in the University 
of Aberdeen. 

The Origin of Man. By F. WOOD JONES, M.B., D.Sc., 
Professor of Anatomy in the University of London. 

Some Inhabitants of Man and their Migrations. By 
R. T. LEIPER, M.D., D.Sc., Reader in Helminthology 
in the University of London. 

The Future of the Science of Breeding. By R. C. 
PuNNETT, M.A., F.R.S., Arthur Balfour Professor of 
Genetics in the University of Cambridge. 

Our Food from the Sea. By W. A. HERDMAN, LL.D., 
D.Sc., F.R.S., Professor of Zoology in the University 
of Liverpool. 

Tsetse-Flies and Colonisation. By R. NEWSTEAD, M. Sc. , 
F.R.S., Professor of Entomology in the University of 
Liverpool. 



H 



PHYSIOLOGY 
AND NATIONAL NEEDS 



^ EDITED BY 
\> v,^ 

W? D? HALLIBURTON 

M.D., LL.D., F.R.C.P., F.R.S. 

PROFESSOR OF PHYSIOLOGY, KING'S COLLEGE, LONDON 




PUBLISHED BY 



E-P-DUTTON-S-COMPANY 

68l- Y, If TH -AVENUE 
NEW^YORIC. 

ESTABLISHED l85&. 



PREFACE 

THIS little volume is the outcome of a course of 
public lectures at King's College which I organised 
this spring under the auspices of the Imperial 
Studies Committee of the University of London. 
The neglect of Science in political and similar circles 
has never been so disastrous for us as in the earlier 
years of the recent war ; our success later on was 
largely due to the fact that our brave fighting 
forces were supported at home by the organisation 
of our scientific resources. Physiology played its 
part in this great endeavour, and the present book 
tells some of the story. To include all the many 
ways in which Physiology is of national importance 
would have occupied a much larger book : the 
six articles presented here give samples only, but 
I trust that those selected will be sufficient to 
convince the educated public that it is not only 
in war-time, but in the days of reconstruction and 
peace that Physiology plays or should play an 
important part in our national life. 

W. D. HALLIBURTON. 

KINO'S COLLEGE, LONDON, 
August 1919. 



CONTENTS 

PAOB 

PREFACE ....... v 

PHYSIOLOGY AND THE FOOD PROBLEM. By Professor W. D. 

HALLIBURTON, M.D., F.R.S. .... 1 

VITAMINES, UNKNOWN BUT ESSENTIAL ACCESSORY FACTORS 
OP DIET. By F. GOWLAND HOPKINS, M.D., F.R.S., 
Professor of Biochemistry in the University of Cambridge 2 5 

SCURVY : A DISEASE DUE TO ABSENCE OF VITAMINS. By 
Professor A. HARDEN, F.R.S., Head of the Biochemical 
Department, Lister Institute of Preventive Medicine . 51 

PHYSIOLOGY IN THE STUDY OF DISEASE. By D. NOEL 
PATON, M.D., F.R.S., Regius Professor of Physiology in 
the University of Glasgow . . . .75 

THE CONSERVATION OF OUR CEREAL RESERVES. By ARTHUR 
DENDY, D.Sc., F.R.S., Professor of Zoology in the Uni- 
versity of London . . . . .103 

PHYSICAL TRAINING AND THE OPEN-AIR IJFE. By M. S. 
PEMBREY, M.A., M.D., Lecturer in Physiology at Guy's 
Hospital . . . . . .141 

INDEX 161 



PHYSIOLOGY AND THE FOOD PKOBLEM 



BY 



W. D. HALLIBURTON, M.D., F.R.S. 

PBOFBSSOR OF PHYSIOLOGY, UNIVEBSITY OF LONDON, KING'S COLLEGE 



PHYSIOLOGY AND THE FOOD PKOBLEM 

PHYSIOLOGY treats of the uses or functions of the 
body and of its various parts, so that the relation- 
ship of its study to everyday life is more or less 
obvious, although it is often forgotten. 

The science known as Hygiene is the direct 
practical outcome of physiological knowledge ; the 
health of a nation is its most important asset, and 
all the means taken to prevent disease come within 
the scope of Hygiene. It is a curious phase of our 
national habits that any study of a biological nature 
is so largely debarred from general education. If a 
man is to be an engineer, the necessity of a know- 
ledge of engines is obvious. We are all engineers 
in conducting our life work, yet how few have even 
a faint idea of the construction or working of the 
engine called the human body. 

In some ancient seats of learning, Physiology 
still retains its old name, the Institutes of Medicine, 
and I remember some years ago it was the fashion 
for physicians to speak of physiology in a somewhat 
patronising way as the " Handmaid of medicine." 
One does not often hear this expression nowadays, 



4 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

for physiologists have rightfully resented the im- 
putation that their science occupies a humble or 
menial place. Physicians also have realised that 
the whole of the science of pathology or disease is 
the direct outcome of an accurate knowledge of 
physiology. How many people would place trust 
in a repairer of unhealthy watches who had no 
knowledge of the working of a healthy watch ? 

During the last four years we have had striking 
illustrations of the usefulness of the physiologists 
in the help they have rendered to humanity during 
the war. It has been a war in which science 
has played a leading role. It has been so for 
mechanicians of every sort, on the land, on the sea, 
and in the air. It has been so for the chemists 
who devised new explosives and new methods of 
attack, for instance, the poison gases. Many other 
examples of the chemical side of warfare might be 
adduced, but let us see what physiologists and 
physiological chemists have done. They stepped 
in not to add to the horrors of the battlefield, but 
to alleviate distress, and the very agent, chlorine, 
used for destructive purposes became in their hands 
the basis of the new antiseptics which have done 
so much to cure the wounds of war. 

In former wars the enemy's bullets killed their 
thousands, but smaller foes, micro-organisms, killed 
their tens of thousands. How different this present 
war has been ! Typhoid, the old enemy, has almost 



PHYSIOLOGY AND THE FOOD PROBLEM 5 

disappeared, and this is only one of many feats 
on which preventive medicine, the offspring of 
physiology, may well be congratulated. 

It might be urged that physiology is acting in a 
presumptuous manner when, as it were, it takes 
medicine under its wing, and that honour should 
be given to those to whom honour is due, namely, 
the medical men in actual practice. All honour 
certainly to these. Their devotion to duty has 
made them worthy of the hero's halo. But ad- 
mitting all that to the uttermost, one cannot over- 
look the fact that, with some notable exceptions, 
the^ clinician is not cut out for research or for 
grappling with the unknown, either on account of his 
temperament or because his practical work fills his 
entire day or because the physiology he learnt years 
ago has been forgotten and replaced by empiricism. 
The war has brought to light many new manifesta- 
tions and varieties of disease, from trench feet up 
to shell shock, and rapid progress and discovery 
has been the result of this stimulus to the in- 
vestigator. Progress during the last four years has 
probably been more rapid than in the previous forty. 
In a recent leading article in The Times, a very 
clear statement on the part physiology has played 
in this progress occurs. It points out that in nearly 
every instance it has been this science, an example 
of Bacon's " more exact inquiry," which has formed 
the mainstay of the knowledge-seekers. 



6 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

What is true of war time must not be allowed 
to fall into disuse in the period of reconstruction 
into which we are entering. Let us rather hope 
that the various committees and enterprises set on 
foot during the last few years will continue to exist 
and continue to act with even increased vigour. 
That frankly means, that in place of spending 
millions per day on war, the Government must be 
prepared to spend a few thousands a year in the 
endowment of research. For the first time in the 
history of our country, biologists in general and 
physiologists in particular have been called upon 
to do national work with more or less official 
recognition. Hitherto their work has been of 
national importance, but it has shared the general 
neglect meted out to scientific endeavour. We 
have to-day in the present Cabinet a striking sign 
of grace, for if it contains no physiologists, it has 
got at the head of two important departments two 
statesmen who formerly worked at the sister science 
of anatomy, and so we have the best augury for 
the future that science is coming into its own. 

Among the organisations to which I refer, one 
must specially mention the Medical Research Com- 
mittee, which has organised and controlled numer- 
ous researches on the new diseases which the war 
has revealed. A side issue of their work has been 
the publishing of a medical supplement to the 
" Review of the Daily Press " issued by the Govern- 



PHYSIOLOGY AND THE FOOD PROBLEM 7 

ment. This review has contained a summary of 
important foreign news culled from the press of 
aliens, allies, and neutrals, and its medical supple- 
ment has done the same for medical science. A 
similar publication dealing with animal and plant 
physiology has been set on foot by the Physiological 
Society, and is another direct outcome of the war 
stimulus. One trusts that the Government will 
continue to support the publication of the medical 
supplement and extend its usefulness in the time 
of peace. Such publications are expensive and can 
never hope to pay their way if they depend on 
private enterprise alone. 

Another important committee, under the presi- 
dency of Lord D'Abernon, has dealt with the ques- 
tion of alcohol. The majority of its members were 
physiologists, and its decisions were the result of 
scientific research. I remember when I was younger 
the cant phrase, " You cannot make people sober 
by Acts of Parliament." This seemed such a con- 
clusive argument that for years and years nothing 
was attempted in the way of reform. We have 
seen now what can be done by an act of D.O.R.A., 
and let us trust that, even if Lord D'Abernon's 
Committee is no longer an entity, its effects will 
continue, and that if fresh needs and problems 
arise the Committee will be reconstituted with 
enlarged powers. In this connection all will watch 
with interest that great experiment on the other 



8 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

side of the Atlantic in which the use of alcohol is 
to be entirely prohibited. I might extend my 
allusions to committees of like nature, but I will 
mention only one more and it is by no means the 
least important. I mean the Food (War) Com- 
mittee of the Royal Society. We hear a good deal 
now the expression " the silent navy," and an 
excellent expression it is. One lesson taught us by 
the recent war, aided by censors of various kinds, 
is to imitate the navy in holding our tongues. So 
successfully has the scientific world learnt and 
practised this lesson that I doubt whether the 
Eoyal Society Committee has ever been heard of 
by the majority of the public. All have heard of 
the Ministry of Food and have obeyed its edicts, 
but never knew that all the important decrees of 
the Ministry were preceded by consultations with 
the Food Committee of the Koyal Society. 

Food is a question which appeals to everybody, 
and although the war is over, and restrictions are 
being relaxed every day, a good many food prob- 
lems remain with us, so that the national interest 
in the question is still keen. 

In the early days of food control there was a 
tendency to pooh-pooh the scientific aspect of the 
question : these were the days when mistakes 
occurred, for example, the use of rhubarb leaves. 
Things did not run smoothly until the Ministry 
made the remarkable discovery that people who 



PHYSIOLOGY AND THE FOOD PROBLEM 9 

have made a lifelong study of a subject are those 
who really know something about it, and are the 
only people in the position to give trustworthy 
advice. 

So far has the principle of holding one's tongue 
been carried that our right hands have hardly known 
what our left hands have been up to, and I doubt 
whether even my colleagues know very much more 
of what my bit of war work has been than that it 
has had something to do with food. But there is 
no longer, happily, this need of secrecy, and the 
immense piles^of documents of the Food Committee 
are now released from the confidential category. 

Probably the most important result of scientific 
interference is that the work has been given an 
international character, and an Interallied Food 
Commission, in which the Entente countries parti- 
cipated, met in London, Paris, and Rome. They 
reached conclusions relating to the distribution and 
nutritive value of food, the amounts needed under 
varying conditions of work, etc., and accumulated 
important statistics on the supplies available, both 
in the eastern and western hemispheres, which are 
of the utmost value. 

At one of the final meetings at Rome, my friend, 
Professor Chittenden, the apostle of moderation in 
food in the United States, and one of the representa- 
tives of that country at the Interallied Conference, 
put it very happily when he said " In the ancient 



10 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

days the edict went forth from Rome that all the 
world should be taxed ; to-day it is from Borne that 
the world will hear how it is to be fed." But the 
work of such conferences has not been final : one 
thing became very clear as time went on, and that 
is, the imperfection of our present knowledge, and 
therefore the machinery has been set in action for 
the future ; various topics about which at present 
we know very little still are to be investigated by 
international bureaux of inquiry which are to be 
set up and (one hopes) subsidised. 

The daily press has during the last few years 
made the public familiar with some of the prin- 
ciples of dieting and the way in which the value of 
foods can be estimated in calories. I do not pro- 
pose to dwell upon these principles ; they can be 
culled from any elementary primer on physiology. 1 
Moreover it is impossible with the space at my 
disposal even to allude to such aspects of the food 
question as the daily amount necessary in various 
industrial occupations, or to the nutritive value of 
the many different kinds of food which have been 
investigated in detail. Instead of this I will select 
one or two definite examples as illustrations of the 
sort of work which has been carried out, and of 
which I happen to have some intimate knowledge. 

The first of these topics is bread, and as an 

1 I have jotted down ohe main elementary principles of dieting in a 
brief appendix to this &. 4cle. 



PHYSIOLOGY AND THE FOOD PROBLEM 11 

introduction let me first say a few words on vita- 
mines, a subject on which our knowledge is quite 
recent. 

If an animal is fed on purified proteins, carbo- 
hydrates, and fats, with the addition of the neces- 
sary salts and water, it soon becomes ill and finally 
dies, even although the amounts administered are 
physiologically correct. If the animal is a young 
one, it ceases to grow under the same conditions. 
A very small addition of a natural food, such as 
milk, corrects the evil. Foods as they occur in 
nature contain o something extra, and these extra 
materials, a small quantity of which is essential 
for normal maintenance and growth, have been 
dubbed vitamines, or accessory food factors. 

One of them is soluble in water, and is contained 
in special abundance in the " germ " present in 
the outer portions of food grains. In certain parts 
of the world, for example in Japan, polished rice 
was used as the main article of diet, and the 
Japanese suffered in consequence from a disease 
called beri-beri (dropsy, neuritis, paralysis), not 
because the rice was poisonous but because it 
lacked the vitamine. If the outer portion of the 
rice grain is added to the diet the disease is pre- 
vented or cured. The Japanese are a practical 
people, and now that the cause of beri-beri is 
known, the disease is rapidly - i61 *nng a thing of 
the past. There are also other \^ ^ines ; diseases 



12 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

due to their absence, such as scurvy, rickets, and 
probably dental caries, are therefore called " de- 
ficiency diseases." 

What is true for rice is also true for wheat 
grains. Our war bread was at first distasteful, and 
part of the prejudice against it was due to errors 
in mixing and baking, which can now be avoided. 
Painstaking researches have shown that the war 
bread was not only easily digestible by most people 
(including invalids, who submitted themselves to 
experimentation), it not only enabled an enormous 
saving to be made in the nation's supply of flour, 
but, above all, it is of superlative value in contain- 
ing the health-giving vitamine. 1 

The methods of making such bread and the 
experimental testing of their digestibility were all 
organised by the Koyal Society Committee, and it 
was mainly the effect of this Committee's repre- 
sentations which prevented the Government from 
rationing bread in this country. This was, how- 
ever, only rendered possible by America's great 
act of self-sacrifice in depriving herself of wheat in 
order to supply us and our allies. Here she also 
acted under scientific advice. 

The women of America have loyally supported 
the men, and it has been their special duty to look 
up the old cookery books dating back to times 

1 The question ot )Tn nf iines is considered in full in Professor Hopkins' 
article, which see (p. 



PHYSIOLOGY AND THE FOOD PEOBLEM 13 

when America was not a wheat-growing country 
in order to discover how other cereals could be 
adapted to the palate of the American nation. 

Just now, however, it is not our daily bread 
that we worry about so much as our weekly butter. 

In the second half of 1917 the shortage in fats 
became serious and led to a great reduction of the 
fat ration. The reason was not far to seek, for 
fats formerly used as food were split in the pre- 
paration of glycerine for the manufacture of ex- 
plosives. A fat chemically is a combination of 
glycerine with certain organic acids which are called 
fatty acids, and the question arose whether the 
fatty acids which remained after the separation 
of the glycerine could be made available for human 
consumption. 

The question was referred to the Koyal Society 
Committee, and Professor Noel Paton and myself 
were appointed a small sub-committee to investi- 
gate and organise investigations on the matter. It 
was estimated that some 100,000 tons a year of 
these fatty acids could have been set free for the 
purpose if they were found to be suitable for mixing 
in with margarines. This would mean a substantial 
gain to the fat supply of the nation which in 
pre-war time was estimated at 1,650,000 tons per 
annum, an amount far above the actual require- 
ment, for fat more than any other food constituent 
was extensively wasted. One of the duties of our 



H PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

little sub-committee consisted in examining and 
reporting upon various contrivances for fat-saving, 
but the main issue before us was the possible 
utilisation of the fatty acids just referred to. We 
have had assistance from workers in several labora- 
tories and also from important firms, for instance, 
the Olympia Mills at Selby. After a visit to the 
Selby Mills, undertaken by my colleague, Dr. 
Drummond, where he was supplied with the tech- 
nical details that were necessary, arrangements were 
made for a supply of fats, mainly of vegetable 
origin and of the fatty acids prepared from them, 
to be sent to the laboratories where experiments 
were conducted. At that time we did not know 
how long the war was going to last and so we 
selected rats as the animals upon which the experi- 
ments were made, for a few weeks or months in 
the life of these animals form a very considerable 
portion of their life span. 

The first specimens received were not appetising, 
and in fact could not have been rendered fit for 
human food, but subsequently with improved 
methods the impurities in the material were lessened 
so that these were actually employed for experi- 
ments upon man. The rats took the fatty acids 
and thrived upon them and actually produced 
young during the experimental period, but the 
ultimate experiment must always be made upon 
man himself, for it would never do to go to the 



PHYSIOLOGY AND THE FOOD PROBLEM 15 

public and say, It is quite safe for you to take this 
sort of food because rats have done well upon it. 

With the help of Professor Leitch of the West 
of Scotland Agricultural College, the fatty acids 
were rendered palatable or sufficiently so for three 
volunteers from the University of Glasgow to take 
them as their sole fat supply for weeks on end, 
either spread on bread or mixed with potatoes. 
At first they concealed the flavour with some jam, 
but after a day or two they were quite content to 
take the substitute for butter without any camou- 
flage whatever. This unusual fat-like food pro- 
duced no ill effects, and was well digested and 
utilised in the body. 

Now that the crisis has passed, the necessity 
for the use of fatty acids in the manufacture of 
margarine is not likely to be put into practice, but 
if the need should ever arise again, we know that 
they can be used with perfect safety, and it will 
only remain for the skill of the margarine makers 
to render them more palatable than in these early 
enterprises. 

A remarkable outcome of experiments of this 
nature has been to show that, although fatty acids 
are given with the food, yet the body cells have the 
power to manufacture glycerine upon the premises 
so that what enters the nutrient stream is fat, 
that is the fatty acid is once more combined with 
glycerine within the body although no glycerine 



16 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

has been given in the food. What the glycerine is 
made from is a chemical puzzle, though, perhaps, 
those who say that it originates from sugar are not 
far wrong. We may congratulate ourselves upon 
British enterprise which has rendered the supply 
of margarine now so large that coupon restrictions 
were soon abolished, and modern margarines are 
in many cases made so attractive and so palatable 
that the old prejudices against this butter substi- 
tute have very nearly disappeared. 

In real butter there is present another of those 
materials called vitamines essential for health and 
more particularly for the growth of young animals. 
We do not know its chemical composition but we 
do know that it is present in this as in most other 
forms of animal fat ; but it is absent from vegetable 
fats, and as vegetable fats are so largely used * now 
in margarine manufacture care will have to be taken 
in the future, by legislative enactment or otherwise, 
that margarines contain a sufficient admixture of 
fats of animal origin ; there will be danger of 
" deficiency disease " and stunted growth unless 
such precautions are taken. 

This vitamine though absent from vegetable oils 
is really of vegetable origin, and during plant 
growth is found in" the green parts. The animal 
body can make glycerine but is not able to make 

1 Previous to use oils are " hardened " by a process known as 
hydrogenation ; this is carried out at high temperatures which would 
destroy any vitamine if it were originally present. 



PHYSIOLOGY AND THE FOOD PROBLEM 17 

vitamine, so that when it appears in the milk 
of the cow it ultimately came from the grass 
she ate. This should be remembered in the 
dietary of the nursing mother, and green vege- 
tables should be insisted upon if she is to 
make milk efficient for the growth of her off- 
spring. Green vegetables are not suitable as 
food for young infants, so that if ever in the 
future there is a danger of shortage of milk it 
must be the children that get the lion's share 
of milk and milk products. 

Speaking of milk and remembering the establish- 
ment of a Ministry of Health, it should be one of 
the earliest acts of such a ministry to safeguard 
the health of the State by a pure milk bill : pre- 
cautions of cleanliness in milking and in the storage 
of milk should be imperative for milk tradesmen 
and milk sellers, just as it is in America and 
Australia. In this way the lives of hundreds of 
thousands of children who are at present exposed 
to the diseases conveyed to them in unclean milk 
may be saved. 

Among other matters referred to our sub- 
committee have been the nutritive value of cocoa 
butter, and the possibility of lanoline, a substance 
of which a large surplus stock was on hand, as 
a constituent of margarine. My readers will be 
interested to know that the former is of high 
nutritive value : it is not quite so digestible as 



18 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

butter or margarine, but, provided you like or 
can get to like the flavour, it does no harm ; 
lanoline, on the other hand, although it contains 
nothing actually poisonous, is entirely useless as 
a food, being quite indigestible. 

I have already mentioned that it has been one 
of my incidental duties to read a good deal of 
German medical literature during the past few 
years, and in that country the food problem has 
been more acute than it has been with us. One 
hears, or at any rate heard in the past, a good deal 
of admiration for German methods, but, so far as 
one can judge, they do not seem to have mobilised 
physiological science in the same way as has been 
done in this country through the Food Committee 
of the Eoyal Society. It would be possible to 
give many examples of want of scientific advice 
which the food controllers of Germany suffered 
from, but one which is typical will suffice. Munich 
is a town in which the great nutrition school 
flourished under the leadership of Voit about half 
a century ago, and if one looks to the food con- 
troller's regulations for the feeding of the children 
of Munich it is enough to have made Voit turn in 
his grave. The errors were pointed out in the 
medical journals of that city, and one does not 
know whether this fell upon deaf ears or not, but 
even if the scientific advice were taken, a good 
deal of mischief had already been done and it was 



PHYSIOLOGY AND THE FOOD PKOBLEM 19 

a case of locking the stable door after the horse 
was stolen. Lord Eosebery, in a sentence that has 
stuck in our memories, said some years ago that 
" we generally muddle through somehow," but in 
connection with food there has been in this country 
a minimum of muddle, rationing has gone smoothly, 
there has been but little hardship, and we are 
through. How far physiology has been instru- 
mental in helping to bring about this happy result, 
I may safely leave to the judgment of others. 

APPENDIX 



IN order to explain the word nutrition we may roughly 
compare the body to a steam-engine. To maintain this in 
running order, it is necessary (1) to supply it with fuel, 
and (2) to keep it in repair. The burning of the fuel gives 
rise to heat and also generates the work which it is the 
object of the engine to accomplish. Food in relation to 
the body fulfils the same use, for it undergoes combustion 
and thus the bodily heat is kept up, and work is rendered 
possible. Food also achieves the second function, and 
supplies the material for the repair of the body's frame- 
work which undergoes wear and tear as a result of activity. 
Here, however, the body is superior to the engine ; in the 
case of the latter, repair has to be accomplished by means 
of " spare parts," or at any rate of materials similar to 
those originally employed in the construction of the machine ; 
the living body is able to utilise for repair certain materials 
in the food which are not identical with its own substance, 
but which are rendered identical in digestive processes. 



20 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

This twofold aspect of the usefulness of foods was first 
grasped many years ago by Liebig, and he divided foods 
into two groups : (1) the " heat-forming," or more accu- 
rately the " energy-forming," foods, which are the fats and 
the carbohydrates (starch and sugar) ; and (2) the " flesh- 
forming," or better the " tissue-forming," foods, which are 
par excellence those complex nitrogenous substances termed 
the proteins or albuminous foods. The proteins, however, 
in addition are partially burnt in the body, and so serve 
also as a source of energy. A nutritious diet, then, is one 
which is able to repair tissue waste and provide the re- 
quisite amount of energy. 

ENERGY. When the fuel in the engine's furnace is 
burnt, there is no real destruction of matter, for the pro- 
ducts of combustion (carbonic acid and the like) are equal 
in weight to the original fuel, plus the oxygen of the air 
which has entered into combination with it. During this 
combustion or oxidation, energy is liberated, and energy, 
like matter, is also indestructible though it exhibits trans- 
formations. In the unburnt fuel the energy is latent or 
potential, but as the coal burns three forms of actual 
energy or force are liberated : one of these is light, another 
is heat, and the third is mechanical work which makes the 
wheels go round. There is a fixed relationship between 
these forms of energy ; heat, for example, can be trans- 
formed into mechanical work, but always in a definitely 
fixed proportion. Consequently energy can be measured 
by selecting one kind -as the standard, and then the value 
of other forms of energy can be calculated. The standard 
which has been selected is the heat unit or calorie. 

THE CALORIE is the amount of heat required to raise 
the temperature of one kilogramme (2 Ib. 3 oz.) of water 
from freezing-point to 1 C., and the instruments which 
measure the calorific value of substances are called calori- 
meters ; these may be briefly alluded to as vessels con- 
taining a known weight of water ; the material to be 



PHYSIOLOGY AND THE FOOD PROBLEM 21 

investigated is burnt inside the calorimeter and the rise 
of temperature in the water is noted. Every substance 
has a fixed heat (or energy) value. For example, a gramme 
(about 15 grains) of starch or sugar when burnt yields 
4 calories, and a gramme of fat yields 9, and this is true 
whenever or wherever it is burnt. Life is a process of 
slow combustion, and its activities are the result of the 
transformation of energy just as in the furnace of the 
steam-engine. In animal life, save in such exceptional 
creatures as glow-worms and fireflies, there is no production 
of light ; the chief form of actual energy is heat, and some 
of this is transformable into mechanical work. Calori- 
meters adapted to be used for animals and men have 
shown that the same laws hold there as in the engine ; 
each gramme of fat burnt in the furnace of our body 
yields 9, and each gramme of starch or sugar (and we 
may add here protein) yields 4 calories. The advantage 
of fat as a fuel is evident, for it yields more than twice 
as much energy as the same weight of any other food- 
stuff. 

THE DAILY CALORIE REQUIREMENT will depend on the 
size of the man and on variations in his activities. A man 
of average size who stays in bed for the twenty-four hours 
wants about 1700 in the day to maintain his temperature, 
to keep his heart beating, his chest breathing, and so forth, 
A larger man needs more, a smaller man less. The re- 
mainder of his calorie supply in an active person can be 
called upon for the performance of work. It should, 
therefore, be one of our endeavours in hard times to get 
rid of superfluous weight. This indeed is the usual effect 
of reduced diet. The loss of weight is generally beneficial ; 
it is not progressive after a given time, and one result is 
a lessening of the figure 1700 (this is called the basal or 
standard metabolic figure), so then more is available for 
work performance. Most people happily do not spend 
their days in bed, and the old precept that if a man does 



22 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

not work neither shall he eat is seldom carried out in 
practice ; but the converse that if he does work he should 
have more to eat is a sine qua non. The peace-time allow- 
ance for a man doing a day's hard muscular labour is food 
equivalent to about 3500 calories, and under conditions of 
extreme work this may rise to more than 4000 in a day. 
Many people in the time of peace and plenty took food of 
this high calorific value even if they were not hard workers, 
and it was such people who as a consequence put on weight : 
it is just these people who lost their extra weight when 
rationed in war time. 

But the man who really is putting forth extra energy 
must either get it from an increase in his food intake or 
he has to fall back on his reserves ; the first line of reserve 
is his adipose tissue, and so he becomes thin. This 
reserve obviously will not last him for an indefinite time, 
so after a given period, if he still continues to work hard 
on insufficient food, the more precious protein reserves in 
his muscles and other tissues will suffer a harmful strain. 

A definite example may help us to realise the thing in 
figures. Take the case of a well-to-do and not over energetic 
person. His basal metabolic requirement is 1700 calories, 
and his daily food in peace time gave him 3500 ; that will 
leave him 1800 calories for muscular work, which probably 
he did not wholly use, so that he put on a store of fat. 
Now suppose he is rationed down to 2500 calories per 
diem ; in a few weeks most of his superfluous weight will 
be lost, and his basal requirement will be lowered also, say 
to 1500 calories ; he will still have 1000 calories left for 
muscular activities, and this will be all that he can afford 
to spend without encroaching on his protein reserves. 

THE PLACE OF MEAT IN A DIETARY. Meat is eaten 
because it forms a concentrated form of easily digestible 
protein or albumin, and protein is the great repairer of 
our tissue waste. As a source of energy, it is about equal 
to carbohydrate and far inferior to fat ; considering its 



PHYSIOLOGY AND THE FOOD PROBLEM 23 

price its use is therefore not economical. The man who 
works hard requires no more meat than the man in the 
arm-chair, and the so-called increased meat ration which 
was granted during war time to manual workers was 
in the shape of bacon, that is mainly fat. The " Roast 
Beef of Old England " is really not the source of more 
energy, however much the contrary may be believed by 
those ignorant of physiological principles. An engine called 
upon to do more work does not necessarily want repair ; 
what it needs is more fuel (coal or petrol). The healthy 
human engine is on all fours with this, and rationing was 
directed to deal with healthy bodies ; the invalids who 
did need repair were dealt with on different^ lines. Meat, 
however, which was the only form of protein food rationed, 
is not our only source of protein supply. The flesh of 
fish, or, for those who can afford it, of game and poultry, 
is just as valuable as that of sheep and oxen ; we can also 
get proteins in milk, in cheese, in eggs, and also in bread : 
for bread contains about 10 per cent. There was never, 
therefore, any fear that we were anywhere near the margin 
of danger so far as our supply of flesh-forming foods was 
concerned. Another available form of protein food is that 
in peas, beans, lentils, and the like. These useful vegetables 
contain as much protein as beef and mutton, and if properly 
cooked (aye, there's the rub !) are almost as easily digested. 
Nevertheless there are proteins and proteins, and some are 
better adapted to animal nutrition than others ; the most 
adaptable are those of animal origin ; but there are some 
vegetable proteins which are nearly equal to these, and of 
those the protein of potato stands pre-eminent ; the pity 
of it is that the potato contains so little, but that little is 
good. The reduction in the supply of butcher's meat was 
rendered necessary by the diminished supply, but it was 
quite sufficient for physiological purposes, and the reduc- 
tion was of great benefit to those who had been big meat- 
eaters in the past. 



24 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

THE SPECIFIC DYNAMIC ACTION OF PROTEIN. By this 
one means that protein, and especially meat protein, acts 
as a stimulant, stimulating the body to a higher heat 
production ; and this increase in heat production is not 
all utilisable in the execution of mechanical work. Those 
who have read the works of Arctic or Antarctic explorers 
must have noted the beneficial action a good meat meal 
has on the comfort and well-being of the explorers. In a 
temperate zone like this, except in the winter, this dynamic 
action of meat is unnecessary, and the distaste for much 
meaty food, which we all experience in warm weather, is 
an instinctive recognition of this physiological principle. 

Temperance in alcoholic drinks is not the only form of 
moderation which we all ought to practise ; temperance 
in other stimulants (meat included) is also obligatory. 

EATIONS FOR BRAIN-WORKERS. The brain works eco- 
nomically : any measurable increase in energy-output is 
negligible, and so it may be at once said that the brain- 
worker requires no increased intake of food. The food 
must naturally be easily digestible ; one cannot expect a 
man to do good mental work who is suffering from the 
pangs of dyspepsia, but beyond this anything further is 
unnecessary. 



VITAMINES, UNKNOWN BUT ESSENTIAL 
ACCESSORY FACTORS OF DIET 



BY 



F. GOWLAND HOPKINS, M.D., F.R.S. 

PROFESSOR OF BIOCHEMISTRY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF CAMBRIDGE 



25 



VITAMINES, UNKNOWN BUT ESSENTIAL 
ACCESSORY FACTORS OF DIET 

IN many departments of human knowledge the 
teaching and guidance of science are accepted as 
final because in these departments the knowledge 
arose in the first instance from scientific studies 
and from these alone. Progress in such categories 
depends entirely upon controlled and recorded 
observation or upon experiment, and these are 
the methods of science. 

It is otherwise, one might be tempted to say, in 
regions where mankind can claim abundant and 
accumulated empirical experience. In connexion 
with his own nutrition Man's experience has been 
needless to say coterminous with his whole 
existence. Science may explain that experience, 
but is unlikely, it might seem, to improve upon 
experience as a guide. It may supply theory, but 
where experience has been so great and so continu- 
ous it seems unlikely that it could do much to guide 
practice. This consideration, consciously or sub- 
consciously, accounts, I think, for a widespread 
feeling that the teachings of science about our food 
supply are of academic interest only. 

27 



28 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

I am to deal, however, with some facts which 
indicate that, in one direction at least, practice, for 
lack of knowledge, has for a long time been in danger 
of going wrong. Experience might doubtless have 
eventually corrected the error, but it may be hoped 
that in this case scientific study will forestall ex- 
perience, which is a much slower and more expensive 
teacher. 

So long as a community can command not only 
a sufficiency of food but also a variety of foods, and 
uses these foods in fresh condition, as Nature made 
them, appetite and instincts (if unperverted) are 
usually sufficient to secure efficient nutrition for the 
individual. But when natural foodstuffs are treated 
artificially ; when, for instance, one kind of food 
material is fractionated, and the consumer presented 
with a part of it only, or when another material 
is dried or heated for preservative or other purposes, 
or, again, when natural foods are sealed up and kept 
for long periods, it by no means follows that under 
such conditions the food materials any longer 
subserve proper nutrition, even though they 
are eaten in sufficient quantity and satisfy the 
appetite. 

Now questions of diet are proverbially liable to 
stimulate quackery, and if I were here to discuss 
the merits of " natural " foods without giving you 
objective facts I might be suspected of merely 
supporting certain doctrinaires self -dubbed " food 



VITAMINES 29 

reformers," whose zeal outruns their knowledge. 
There are facts, however, which support the view 
that where commercial or other enterprise supplies 
the public with articles of diet which have been 
treated or " refined " so as to please the eye, or to 
accord with a fashion or convenience, it may be 
encouraging very wrong practice. Related facts 
show that the public when employing tinned or 
dried or preserved foods should use them with 
discretion and supplement them properly. 

To the naive view that the one important factor 
in nutrition is the quantity eaten the science of the 
last century added one discriminative aspect, namely, 
that quality must be considered as well as quantity 
in so far that the food eaten must in any case contain 
a certain minimum of protein. It taught that the 
essential constituents of a diet which promotes 
proper nutrition are protein, carbohydrate, fat, and 
mineral salts, the organic materials being always 
provided in sufficient amount to supply the demands 
of the body for energy. 

What we have lately learnt though it is remark- 
able how slowly came a recognition of the facts 
is that, in addition to the above constituents, which 
our diets always contain in tangible and easily 
ascertainable amounts, an efficient diet must also 
comprise quite other substances, of which the char- 
acteristic is that their nutritive importance is out 
of all proportion to the minute quantity in which 



30 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

they are normally consumed. This, I would repeat, 
is one essential fact in connexion with what we 
have agreed to call accessory food substances or 
' ' vitamines. ' ' Their influence on the body is great : 
their amount as they exist in natural foods is appar- 
ently exceedingly small. This is one reason why 
they have for so long eluded recognition. 

Before putting further details before you I will 
illustrate how great may be the importance to the 
body of very small amounts of a nutritional factor 
by reminding you of what still remains the most 
vivid instance of the phenomena we are concerned 
with. 

In certain rice-eating communities of the East, 
in Japan, the Malay Peninsula, the Dutch Indies, 
the Philippines, etc. where, owing to various cir- 
cumstances, the diet is more exclusively confined 
to the single cereal than is the case in the wheat- 
eating West, the very serious disease beri-beri is 
endemic. It is natural for pathologists to look for 
a positive, rather than what may be called negative, 
causation in disease, and after the development 
of modern bacteriology many unsuccessful efforts 
were made to find a microbic origin for beri-beri. 
Long before this, it is true, the view had been held 
that diet played a part in its production and the use 
of rice was blamed. But the view taken was that 
the cause was bad rice, rice infected with moulds 
or other organisms. Only slowly did the under- 



VITAMINES 31 

standing arise, and not till quite lately was proof 
driven home, that the disease only follows when 
the rice eaten has been so treated as to lose some 
essential constituent. The natural grain contains 
a special constituent necessary to the body. Over- 
milling removes this. Polished rice, unlike whole 
rice, is a deficient food. Beri-beri is a deficiency 
disease, due to reliance upon this food. 

Though not duly appreciated at first, evidence 
for this really came with the arrival in the East 
of modern milling machinery from the West. This 
brought a very great increase in the number of cases 
of beri-beri. Now the native methods of treating 
rice before eating had been such as to leave essen- 
tially untouched certain parts of the grain which 
the steam mill on the other hand completely 
removes. 

The advent of steam milling and the increase of 
disease were not at once recognised as being corre- 
lated ; but so far back as 1897 there was brought 
forward what was irrefutable proof that beri-beri 
depends not upon infection or staleness in the rice 
taken as food, but upon the treatment the grain 
had received in the mill. This proof was due to the 
Dutch physician Eijkman. The statistics he used 
dealt with no less than 279,621 individuals, all of 
them at different times prisoners in the gaols of the 
Dutch East Indies. The different prisons, owing to 
their various situations with different and settled 



32 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

local customs, were supplied with different kinds of 
rice, so the conditions for controlled observations 
were ready to hand. 

In 37 prisons unpolished rice was employed : only 
one of these prisons developed cases of beri-beri. 
In 13 prisons the rice used was polished rice mixed 
with unpolished : in six of them beri-beri developed. 
Out of 51 prisons where the' rice eaten was entirely 
of the polished variety so many as 36, or over 70 
per cent, developed cases of the disease ! If instead 
of considering the prisons we count individuals, we 
find from Eijkman's data that for each 10,000 of 
the prison population there was only one case among 
those eating unpolished rice, 416 on the mixed rice 
dietary, and no less than 3900 on polished rice. 
Confirmatory observations have in later years been 
made elsewhere, but Eijkman's figures are so con- 
clusive that I need bring forward no others. What, 
then, is removed by the steam mill of which the 
importance becomes so evident in its absence ? 
Not the main husk of the grain, for that had nearly 
always been removed in oriental practice, but just 
a very thin layer the " silver skin " which lies 
on the outer part of the husk-free seed, together 
with what we now know to be also important, the 
germ or embryo. But these structures represent 
but a very small proportion indeed of the total 
weight of the grain, and we know, as a matter of fact, 
that the essential thing or things contained in them 



VITAMINES 33 

can amount to but a minute fraction of the material 
removed. Polished and unpolished rice, as one 
looks at them side by side, seem to differ so little 
that it is almost unbelievable that while the latter 
is an efficient food the exclusive use of the former 
may lead to fatal results. 

But even Eijkman's striking statistics and the 
facts they brought out did not at once lead to the 
conception of vitamines. The thought of the pathol- 
ogist is so accustomed to deal with positive causes 
of disease with bacteria with some intruder, some 
materies morbi that he develops a certain habit 
of mind, and with difficulty believes in causation 
which has, so to speak, a minus sign. 

I will return later to this particular instance of 
the evil effects of fractionating a natural food mate- 
rial : for the moment, lest you should associate the 
subject too closely with the idea of actual disease, 
I will turn your attention into another channel. 

As I have already reminded you, the scientific 
assumption until a few years ago was that the only 
essential organic constituents of foods are proteins, 
fats, carbohydrates, and salts. But the scientific 
data were mostly obtained during the use of natural 
food-stuffs meats, cereals, vegetables, etc. These 
were, of course, known to contain many other sub- 
stances besides those held to be essential, but 
because, for the most part, they are present in small 
amounts, the possibility of their importance was 



34 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

always ignored. Clearly the ability of proteins, 
fats, carbohydrates, and inorganic salts by them- 
selves to support life could only be proved by giving 
them pure. 

Suppose, now, we feed animals with a mixture 
containing really pure protein, such as purified 
casein from milk, purified starch, and pure sugar, 
together with a vegetable fat (I say vegetable 
fat for a reason which will shortly be made clear), 
and the requisite mineral salts what is the 
result ? Not normal nutrition by any means ! 
On such a food young animals fail to grow and 
all animals, even adults, sooner or later go to 
ground. 

The full significance of these facts will not be 
appreciated unless it be recognised that these puri- 
fied diets are perfectly wholesome : they are fully 
digested, and may be eaten, so far as quantity is 
concerned, in amount ample for normal growth and 
maintenance. Something, however something 
clearly of the greatest importance is lacking. Ex- 
periments which prove these statements, and the 
further discriminative experiments to which I shall 
refer, have hitherto been made almost exclusively 
upon animals ; for the most part, indeed, upon rats, 
because of the extreme convenience of these subjects. 
But for those who feel prejudice against applying 
results so obtained to the nutrition of Man (an 
unjustifiable prejudice, let me say), I shall later 



VITAMINES 35 

offer facts which make a bridge to the case of human 
nutrition. 

The striking thing, the point that we are now 
concerned with, is the extremely small amount of 
material which as an addendum will if rightly 
chosen convert these wholly inefficient artificial 
diets into efficient ones. In some early experi- 
ments of my own, for example, the addendum was 
a minute amount of milk. The amount of solid 
matter contained in this added milk represented 
at most three or four per cent of the whole food 
eaten by the animals, and as most of the constituents 
supplied in it were already in the diet any special 
substance must have formed a very small proportion 
indeed of the whole supply of food. Yet, without 
this small addendum young animals did not grow : 
with it they grew satisfactorily. With it they lived ; 
without it they ultimately died. Similar results 
are got by the addition of equally small amounts 
of other materials ; but they must be preparations 
made from plant or animal tissues. They must 
contain something made originally by living cells. 
All our natural foods are parts of tissues which have 
lived. We ultimately owe our supply of them to 
the plant, and the plant evidently makes and stores 
certain substances in very small quantity, which 
are, as experiment proves, as important to the 
animal and to the human body as the proteins and 
the starch which it makes in so much larger quantity. 



86 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

Except for those who view nutrition too exclusively 
from the standpoint of energy supply, there is no 
reason for surprise in this circumstance. 

What should be clearly grasped is the fact that 
without the minute quantities of accessory sub- 
stances, perfectly wholesome and, indeed, from the 
standpoint of their own functions, absolutely neces- 
sary foodstuffs are not, in any complete and proper 
sense, utilised at all. They are absorbed and the 
energy contained in them is liberated in the body, 
but the co-ordination of metabolism is absent, and 
neither material nor energy is employed aright. 
When the minute addendum is supplied these very 
same food-stuffs become perfectly available as a 
whole. We may think of such facts in terms of a 
very rough analogy. If a house is to be built it is 
bricks and wood which bulk largely in the necessary 
supply. The bulk of necessary nails is out of all 
proportion small, and even that of the mortar is 
relatively small ; but it would be impossible to 
erect a normal house without at least a minimal 
supply of nails and mortar. Without them the rest 
of the building materials would, from the stand- 
point of a future tenant, be useless. From the facts 
just dealt with and from those brought to light from 
the study of beriberi the conception of vitamines 
emerges. The analogy just used may indeed be 
wrong. Vitamines may not be concerned with the 
structure of the tissues, but rather as stimulants 



VITAMINES 37 

or catalysts with dynamic functions in the tissues. 
In any case they are nutritive essentials not directly 
concerned with the supply of potential energy. 

The question will be immediately asked : what, 
then, is the actual nature of such substances ? It 
must be confessed that we do not yet know. 
Patient efforts have already been made to effect 
their isolation, but success has not yet come. But 
their nature is perfectly objective. We can extract 
them, precipitate them, redissolve them : but we 
cannot yet get them completely separated from 
other substances, and until we can do so we can- 
not determine their chemical nature. But many 
facts have been garnered concerning their general 
character and behaviour, and what in particular 
we have learned in the last four or five years is to 
be sure that there is more than one of these sub- 
stances. There are, indeed, at least three, each one 
of them having its own function in nutrition. 

Consider first very briefly the evidence for 
the existence of two of them. Suppose an animal 
to be upon artificial diet such as I have already 
described. Normal growth will fail, as we have 
seen. But suppose the fat supplied in the artificial 
mixture to have been butter or almost any other 
animal fat. Then growth will occur if we merely 
add to the mixture small quantities of watery ex- 
tracts made from various plant or animal tissues. 
A watery extract of the wheat grain, for instance, 



38 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

and especially of the cortex or embryo of the wheat ; 
or, as it is interesting to know, of the " polishings" 
which are removed when rice is milled. A substance 
soluble in water, and that in small quantity, is all 
that is necessary to convert the, by itself, useless 
diet into a useful one. Suppose, however, that 
instead of an animal fat, we have supplied in the 
original mixture a pure vegetable fat. Then the 
addition of the just -mentioned watery extracts, 
alone, may be quite ineffective they fail to make 
the dietary one which will sustain the animal. Ke- 
place, however, the vegetable fat with butter once 
more, and, given the watery extract, the animal will 
thrive. Now, the vegetable fat is a perfectly good 
food. As fat, as serving the special purpose of 
fat itself in the body, there is no reason to doubt 
that it is as good as animal fat. But it lacks some 
constituent which the latter contains, though that 
something is once more present in very small 
amounts. It will be seen at once to what this evi- 
dence tends. There are at least two vitamines of 
importance to nutrition, one associated with certain 
fats and one soluble in water. Both must be present 
in sufficient amount in any dietary providing proper 
nutrition. Following American suggestion, we now 
speak of them respectively as the " Fat-soluble A " 
and the " Water-soluble B." 

The table shows the relative distribution of these 
two substances in certain natural products, the 



VITAMINES 



39 



relative quantity of either, when present, being 
indicated by the number of plus signs: 



Fat-soluble. 
A. 



Water-soluble. 
B. 



Wheat embryo 
bran . 
endosperm 

Lean Meat 

Egg Yolk 

Milk .*." 

Butter . 

Vegetable Fats 

Cabbage . 

Potatoes . 

Yeast 



The absence of the fat-soluble vitamine from 
vegetable fats is not due to its absence from the 
vegetable structures (seeds, etc.) from which the fats 
are derived, but to the fact that it is left behind 
when the fats and oils are expressed or extracted. 
It is abundant in butter, and is present, as I have 
said, in most animal fats, but it is, strange to say, 
absent or said to be absent from lard. Now of 
the water-soluble substance there is one statement 
which I think can to-day be safely made. It is 
of special interest because it links these animal 
experiments with human experience. The water- 
soluble vitamine proved requisite for growth is the 
very substance which is necessary for the preven- 
tion of beri-beri. It is the substance which rice 
loses when it is " polished." 

I return to beri-beri for a moment. One of the 
special characteristics of that disease is a dis- 



40 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

turbance in the nutrition of the nerves. A form 
of neuritis occurs, with accompanying paralysis. 
Now birds, when fed exclusively upon polished rice, 
display this particular symptom in a very typical 
manner, and the fact enables us to perform careful 
controlled experiments, such as are necessary for 
determining the distribution of the water-soluble 
vitamine or, as it may also now be termed, the 
" antineuritic " substance. After, say, three weeks 
upon a diet of polished rice a pigeon or a fowl will 
suddenly develop acute symptoms of paralysis. It 
is quite easy to cure or prevent these symptoms by 
adding other food-stuffs to the rice, and if known 
amounts of them are added it is possible to estimate 
approximately the relative richness of various foods 
in this water-soluble or anti-neuritic factor. 

So much for the water-soluble vitamine. Is 
now deprivation of the factor associated with fats 
also followed by symptoms of actual disease ? The 
experimental study of its effects is more difficult 
than in the case of the other factor. Deprivation 
of the latter is almost immediately felt ; but in their 
own fat stores animals possess a supply of the fat- 
soluble vitamine, and when it is absent from their 
diet they seem able to mobilise this supply for the 
purposes of their active tissues. Not till this in- 
ternal store is exhausted, or reduced to some minimal 
value, is its absence from the diet fully felt. Clearly, 
different individuals will, either from differences in 



VITAMINES 41 

their previous nutrition, or from idiosyncrasy, vary 
in respect of their store of fat and its associated 
vitamine. It is more difficult, therefore, in the 
case of the fat-soluble factor to obtain completely 
consistent results during experimental feeding. 
Nevertheless all animals ultimately fail when this 
factor is missing from their food. 

The probability is growing that there is one 
disease and it is a disease of serious import to the 
community in which a dietetic error related to a 
deficiency in the fat-soluble vitamine plays a causa- 
tive part. I allude to rickets. We have in this 
connexion, it is true, not yet the concordant evi- 
dence from various sources which exists in proof of 
the origin of beriberi or of the general importance 
of vitamines. The case depends at the moment 
mainly upon the remarkable experimental results 
obtained by my friend and former pupil Dr. Edward 
Mellanby : but his work is by no means without 
the support of other evidence. It is easy, he has 
found, to construct a diet upon which dogs, though 
kept in healthy surroundings and given exercise, 
speedily develop the characteristic symptoms of 
rickets. It is easy to prevent this by suitable addi- 
tions to the dietary, in particular by giving certain 
fats. The fats which are specially efficacious are 
those which, from other evidence, we know to be 
rich in the fat-soluble vitamine. Vegetable fats, 
free from the vitamine, are without effect. The con- 



42 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

elusion seems to be inevitable that in some way 
on lines perhaps not yet fully cleared up rickets 
arises when fat-soluble vitamine is deficient in the 
food. Other factors, such as a generally deficient 
hygiene, may be contributory, but I for one am 
quite convinced that the dietetic error is the primary 
cause. No whit less important is the fact demon- 
strated by Mrs. Edward Mellanby that deficient diets 
such as those which induce rickets, also involve 
grave errors in the growth of teeth in young animals. 
We have had little suspicion until lately that the 
quality of the fat supply in the diet could have an 
effect such as this. 

As a fat rich in the vitamine and capable of 
preventing rickets in dogs, cod-liver oil stands pre- 
eminent. It has been long known that the oil 
favourably influences the course of rickets in infants, 
a fact discovered empirically and without knowledge 
of vitamines ; but a successful therapeutic measure 
is much more likely to gain general credence and 
to establish itself in practice if a rational basis for 
it is made clear. Moreover, the recent attention 
given to the importance of qualitative factors in 
food has led to the use of cod-liver oil in the preven- 
tion of rickets with successful results. These bring 
observations upon human infants directly into line 
with Dr. Mellanby's experiments. The following 
are striking figures relating to infants in a negro 
community of the United States. In this community 



VITAMINES 



43 



the dietetic standards are low and unsatisfactory, 
and its children are greatly prone to rickets. 

The following table shows the extraordinary 
prophylactic results of administering cod-liver oil. 



Total Oil 
administered. 


Duration of 
Treatment. 


No. of 
Infants. 


Infanta 
developing 
Rickets. 


Percentage of 
Non-rachitic. 


54 oz. 


6 Months 


32 


2 


93% 


23 oz. 


6 Months 


5 


1 


80% 


21 oz. 


4 Months 


12 


6 


68% 


None 




16 


16 


6% 



In the case of the disease scurvy, which arises 
when no fresh foods are available, the cause is again 
deficiency in a subtle but indispensable element for 
nutrition. So important is the subject of scurvy, 
and from the standpoint of dietetics so suggestive, 
that you are to hear from Professor Harden a special 
lecture devoted to it. It is necessary, however, 
that I should mention it because we learn from this 
disease that at least one other vitamine exists, quite 
distinct from the two hitherto considered. The 
antiscorbutic factor, unlike the antineuritic or the 
fat-soluble substance, is very unstable. These last 
show considerable resistance to heat and do not 
necessarily disappear when food-stuffs are kept, even 
for long periods, whereas the antiscorbutic sub- 
stance is rapidly destroyed when fresh food-stuffs 
are heated, dried even at low temperatures, or kept 
too long. 

Another disease which may be mentioned is one 



4A PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

to which maize-eating communities are prone. I 
allude to pellagra. I do not propose to discuss it, 
but to show how wide a ground the subject of this 
lecture may ultimately be found to cover. I would 
point out that the many theories as to the origin of 
pellagra which have previously held the ground 
seem, at the moment, to be giving way under the 
pressure of facts and to be yielding to the view that 
pellagra too is due to the absence of some specific 
necessary nutritional factor from the diet. 

It would be grave error to deny that such facts 
and considerations as have been now discussed are 
of practical and even of national importance. Our 
troops abroad during this war have suffered from 
scurvy, as they have done in previous wars. Wher- 
ever bodies of men soldiers, sailors, or explorers- 
are long removed from the sources of fresh foods 
scurvy is wellnigh inevitable. But the severe 
sufferings which were undergone during the siege of 
Kut, for instance, might never have occurred if the 
authorities responsible for the equipment of the 
expedition had had real belief, such as grows from 
scientific study, in the importance of antiscor- 
butics rather than the half -faith which is common, 
especially had they possessed the quantitative 
information available as to the distribution of the 
antiscorbutic factor in different materials. 

At home the variety in our foods may be sufficient 
to secure that actual deficiency disease shall, so far 



VITAMINES 45 

as adults are concerned, remain absent. If the 
necessary accessory factors are missing from one 
article of diet they will probably be supplied in 
others. It is by no means so sure that this remains 
true in the case of the child population. I would 
ask you here to give your attention to certain 
matters of fact, hoping that you will not think them 
trivial because they concern food-stuffs that are so 
familiar. 

First, consider our bread supply. The ancient 
controversy concerning the relative merits of brown 
and white bread has been tainted by prejudice. We 
have had enthusiasm without knowledge on the one 
side often mere quackery and to some extent at 
least we have had the influence of trade interests 
on the other side. I hold no brief for whole-meal 
bread. I think the well-fed and well-to-do public 
may be justified, now the war is over, in insisting 
upon returning to its very white loaf, if this loaf 
suits its taste and appetite better than any other. 
Other articles eaten will surely supply any deficiency. 
It is well to face the facts, however. The elabor- 
ate milling, the " refining " which the wheat grain 
suffers before it appears in the form of our white 
flours, deprives it entirely of its water-soluble vita- 
mine. If our pure white wheaten flour were in this 
country to form so large a proportion of the whole 
diet as rice does in the East, beriberi would with 
certainty appear among us. Indeed, in certain 



46 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

limited communities it is said to have followed the 
use of white bread. The wheat grain, no less than 
the rice grain, shows that an essential nutritive 
factor may have an unequal and limited distribution 
in a natural product, and illustrates the danger of 
" fractionating " natural foods to which I referred 
in my opening remarks. 

It is clear that the danger of any deficiency in 
bread becomes the greater the more it bulks as a 
constituent of the whole diet. In the case of the 
poor and especially the children of the poor it 
undoubtedly bulks largely. Consider, again, the 
question of margarine as a substitute for butter. 
If the margarine is made wholly of vegetable fats 
it lacks the fat-soluble vitamine. It is not by any 
means so trivial a point as it may seem to remember 
that brown bread and butter is, from the standpoint 
of vitamine supply, an excellent combination, while 
white bread and margarine may be a desperately 
bad one. 

[Speaking in parenthesis, I happen to be aware 
from personal knowledge that the margarine indus- 
try in this country is quite alive to the significance 
of the facts. Given full liberty of action the trade 
is, I believe, both willing and able to turn out pro- 
ducts lacking the reproach of this deficiency,] 

We must remember, again, that polished rice 
contributes not a little to the table of the poor, 
especially in some districts, and is often eaten plain 



VITAMINES 47 

boiled. Many of the advertised proprietary breakfast 
foods and invalid foods are practically vitamine free. 

In connection with the antiscorbutic vitamine 
in particular let it be called to mind that tinned 
foods are largely used in poor households, for one 
thing because they often need no cooking. In 
these very households salads are rare, and during 
those periods of the year when fruit is dear extra- 
ordinarily small amounts of fresh food-stuffs are 
consumed at all. 

Yet, it may be said, in spite of all this, beriberi 
or pellagra or any disease like them is unknown 
in this country ; and scurvy is, to say the least of 
it, very rare. But disturbances in health may 
exist without arriving at the extreme stage when 
the appearance of a severe set of symptoms leads 
to the recognition of actual disease. In particular 
is this true of conditions of malnutrition, and, unless 
the considerations I have put before you are wholly 
baseless, malnutrition may arise irrespective of 
the quantity of food eaten. It may depend not 
upon insufficient food but upon badly- treated foods 
or upon an ill-chosen combination of foods. There 
is no point in all that I have said that I would like 
to emphasise more than this. Absence of an essential 
vitamine from the food means disease : but no 
more than a relative deficiency of a vitamine may 
mean bad nutrition. In my own opinion at least 
the diets of the poor and once again it is the 



48 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

children who are chiefly concerned often display 
such deficiency. In connection with a point such 
as this a study of national supply or even of family 
budgets gives only partial information. Even when 
the total family food-budget is satisfactory, ignorant 
and ill-judged feeding of the child members is both 
possible and common. 

The worst of it is that at present the facts are 
not generally recognised even by the medical profes- 
sion, and the ill-health with which such deficiencies 
as we have been considering are associated is, in my 
belief, misunderstood and wrongly treated. 

The case of rickets, however, stands out. Rickets 
is very common in this country. True rickets is 
a disease which, though crippling, is not fatal in 
itself. It is, nevertheless, a factor of supreme im- 
portance to the country because of its indirect 
effect upon the infantile death-rate. The child who 
is rickety is much more prone to other ailments 
much more vulnerable in all respects than a 
normal child. I will not dogmatise with regard 
to its origin. The mere suspicion that it may be 
due to a specific dietetic error, such as a deficiency 
in the supply of the fat-soluble vitamine, should 
awaken instant interest. Once we are convinced of 
the primary importance of this factor it will become 
of national importance to look to the question not 
of the quantity alone, but of the quality of the fats 
in the diets of infants and of nursing mothers. 



VITAMINES 49 

Mention of the nursing mother brings me to the 
last point with which I propose to trouble you. 
Evidence has accumulated to suggest that vitamines 
are not made in the animal body. The animal 
depends ultimately upon the plant for a supply. 
They accumulate in the tissues of herbivorous 
animals, and there, as well as in the plant, they 
are available for human consumption. But if 
vitamines are not made in the body at all, this 
means, in the case of the nursing mother, that if 
she consume a diet deficient in vitamines her milk 
may ultimately become deficient to the complete 
detriment of the nutrition of her child. Animal 
experiments have already revealed such deficiencies 
in milk. It will be seen that the whole question 
of infant feeding is one in which a knowledge of 
these special accessory food factors is particularly 
important. The deficiencies which we have been 
considering are indeed of more urgent importance 
in connection with the nutrition of the young than 
when adults are concerned. Hence what I believe 
to be the national importance of the subject. 
Whether this importance prove ultimately to be 
less than some of us believe, or whether for this 
is quite possible it may prove to be of as yet 
unsuspected importance, it should in any case 
awaken public interest. We are yet at the bare 
beginning of its study. 



E 



SCURVY: A DISEASE DUE TO ABSENCE 
OF VITAMINE 

BY 

PROP. A. HAKDEN, F.R.S. 

HEAD OF THE BIOCHEMICAL DEPABTMENT, LISTEB INSTITUTE 
OF PBBVENTIVE MEDICINE 



51 



SCURVY : A DISEASE DUE TO ABSENCE 
OF VITAMINE 

IT is unnecessary under the circumstances of the 
present lecture for more than a brief mention to 
be made of the fact that modern research in dietetics 
has established the existence of no less than three 
indispensable accessory substances, the presence of 
which in the diet is essential for the complete 
development of the higher animals, and the absence 
of which leads to cessation of growth, disease and 
death. Although, however, the ideas of accessory 
food factors or vitamines and of deficiency diseases 
due to the absence of these from the diet are 
essentially modern, and have indeed been developed 
within the last decade, scurvy, one of the best 
defined deficiency diseases, was long ago recognised 
as being due to a defective diet. Among a seagoing 
people like the English, scurvy the scurvy, as it 
was always termed was but too familiar, and a 
glance through the history of the extensive ex- 
plorations of the sixteenth and seventeenth cen- 
turies teaches us what a dread and terrible scourge 
scurvy was at that time. 

53 



The remedy fresh meat and vegetables was 
well known, but no means existed in those days for 
providing ships with these desirable commodities 
on their slow and protracted voyages. It seems to 
have been quite a common misfortune in the 
seventeenth century on the long voyage to India 
to be compelled to leave a large proportion of the 
crew at the Cape stricken with the scurvy. Lind, 
the historian of scurvy, in his quaint and racy 
Treatise on the Scurvy (2nd ed., London, 1757) 
speaks in no uncertain tone both of the cause of 
the disease and of the most rapid and convenient 
remedies, correctly ascribing it to abstinence from 
fresh vegetable food. Scurvy seems also to have 
been common among the civilian population, owing 
no doubt to the scanty allowance of meat and green 
food available for the poorer classes. Thanks to 
the increased rapidity of transport and the improved 
facilities for the provision of fresh meat, vegetables 
and fruit, adult scurvy has become much less 
familiar in our days and occurs comparatively 
rarely except in cases of long-continued absence 
from centres of civilisation, such as arise in polar 
expeditions or under the strenuous conditions of 
modern war. 

Less rare, perhaps, though fortunately far from 
common, is infantile scurvy, first clearly differen- 
tiated from rickets by Cheadle and by Barlow in 
the 'seventies and 'eighties of last century, and now 



SCURVY 55 

fully recognised as due to the same causes and 
subject to the same remedies as adult scurvy. 
Although few infants develop scurvy in its severe 
form there is evidence that incipient scurvy, arising 
from imperfect diets and causing general malaise, 
is much more frequent. 

In spite of the rarity of scurvy in normal times, 
comparatively slight modifications in the usual con- 
ditions of food supply rapidly lead, even in this 
country, to the development of the disease, especi- 
ally among those accustomed to a one-sided diet. 
Thus, failure of the potato crop in Ireland in 1847 
was followed by an outburst of scurvy, as was also 
the case in Norway in 1904, and the recent shortage 
in the spring of 1917 was marked by outbreaks of 
scurvy in Glasgow, Manchester and Newcastle. 
Similar occurrences are recorded by Hess in America, 1 
where a shortage of potatoes in the spring of 1916 
was followed by the occurrence of no less than 
200 cases in a single institution. 

Such facts mean, as pointed out by Hess, that 
a considerable number of the population are never 
very far removed from the safety line in this 
respect, if they are not actually suffering from a 
partial deficiency. 

In time of war scurvy rapidly appears, and 
numerous instances of this have occurred during 
the past four years as, for example, at Kut 

1 J. Amer. Med. Assoc., 1918, 71, 941. 



56 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

during the siege. In the American civil war no 
less than 30,714 cases of scurvy occurred among 
white troops, and 383 deaths were attributed 
directly to that disease. 

Artificially fed children are, as we shall see, even 
nearer to the scurvy line ; and scurvy, incipient or 
declared, must be regarded as an ever-present 
danger, especially in the first year of life. 

EXPERIMENTAL SCURVY 

As happens frequently if not invariably in the 
study of disease, little progress was made in our 
exact knowledge of the conditions giving rise to 
scurvy, whether in the adult or the infant, and of 
the best remedies, until it became possible to 
investigate the question in the laboratory by ex- 
periments on animals. This important advance 
was made in 1907 by the Norwegian investigator 
Axel Hoist, 1 who found that guinea-pigs developed 
a disease closely resembling human scurvy when 
fed on a diet of grain and water. By supplementing 
this diet with various materials the antiscorbutic 
value of the latter can be gauged; and further 
research carried on during recent years in this 
country at the Lister Institute under the direction 
of Dr. Harriette Chick has developed this pro- 
cedure into a quantitative method of some degree 

1 J. Hygiene, 1907, 7, 619 ; Hoist and Frolich, Zeitsch. Hygiene, 
1912, 72, 1. 



SCURVY 57 

of accuracy. By this means not only can the 
general distribution of the antiscorbutic principle 
be ascertained but the relative values of different 
food-stuffs can be determined and the effect of 
various physical and chemical agents on their 
antiscorbutic potency can be studied. 

A more perfect diet for the guinea-pig is obtained 
by substituting autoclaved i1k for water, as the 
weight of the animal is then better maintained. 
On such a diet guinea-pigs develop the symptoms 
of scurvy and commence to lose weight in 14-21 
days, and die in about 25-30 days. At the post- 
mortem a pathological picture very similar to that 
of human scurvy is disclosed. Subcutaneous intra- 
muscular haemorrhages, the latter specially pro- 
nounced in the thigh region, are well in evidence. 
Subperiosteal haemorrhages are also to be observed. 
The costochondral junctions are abnormally en- 
larged and haemorrhaged. The bones are very 
brittle and the teeth are loose. Young growing 
guinea-pigs are used, but on the experimental diet 
practically no growth occurs. The weight of the 
animal is maintained at an almost constant level 
for 14-21 days and then rapidly falls off. 

Distribution of the Antiscorbutic Accessory Factor. 
Accurate information as to the distribution of 
the antiscorbutic principle and as to the effect of 
various physical and chemical agents upon it can 
only be obtained by working on a quantitative 



58 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

basis. Thus in order to ascertain the relative value 
of different antiscorbutics it is necessary to estab- 
lish in each case the minimum amount of the 
material which wards off scurvy, and each experi- 
ment of this sort must be carried out on several 
animals in order to eliminate the effect of in- 
dividual idiosyncrasies. 

The general results of the experiments so far 
made is shown in the following tables, in the first 
of which the distribution of the principle in a 
number of food materials is indicated, and is con- 
trasted with that of the antineuritic and fat-soluble 
accessories, the relative abundance being indicated 
by the number of + signs. In the second a roughly 
quantitative estimate is made of the relative 
amounts present, taking that in fresh cabbage 
leaves one of the richest sources which we have 
as 100. 1 

TABLE I 

SHOWING THE DISTRIBUTION OF THE THREE ACCESSORY FACTORS 
IN SOME COMMON FOOD-STUFFS 



Antiscorbutic. Antineuritic or Fat-Soluble A. 
Water-Soluble B. 

+ + + 





Butter, . 
Vegetable Fats, 
Lean Meat, 
Cow's Milk, . 

Dried, . 

Eggs, . 
Cereals, Whole grain, 

Germ, 
Peas and Lentils, Dried, 

1 For permission to include some of these numbers, which have not 
yet been published, I have to thank Miss Chick and her colleagues. 



SCURVY 



59 



TABLE I. Continued 



Antiscorbutic. 

Germinated Cereals 

and Peas, etc., . + + 

Cabbage, . . + + + 

Potato, Boiled, . + 

Raw, *:'> 

Lemon Juice, . . + + + 

Yeast Extract, . 

Meat Extract, . 

Beer, . . 



Antlneuritic or 
Water-Soluble B. 



Fat-Soluble A. 



probably none probably none 

+ + + probably none 








FBUITS 




100 


Lemon Juice, 


66 


40 

20 


Orange Juice, 
Lime Juice, . 


33 
. 10-15 


20 
20 


Grapes, 
Meat Juice, . 


less than 6 
less than 5 


5 


Cow's Milk . 


1 


1-6 







TABLE II 

SHOWING THE RELATIVE AMOUNTS OF ANTISCOEBUTIO FACTOB 
IN SOME COMMON FOOD-STUFFS 

VEGETABLES 

Fresh Cabbage, 
Swede Juice, 
Germinated Lentils, 
Cooked Cabbage, . 
Runner Beans, 
Boiled Potato, 
Dried Vegetables, 

It will be seen that the chief sources of the 
principle are green vegetables, tubers, roots and 
fruits, whereas seeds are totally devoid of it, and 
animal products such as meat and milk contain 
relatively very little. An interesting and important 
observation was made by Furst, 1 and has been 
confirmed by Chick and Hume, to the effect that 
the antiscorbutic principle is produced during the 
germination of seeds. In cases of necessity, there- 
fore, dried peas and lentils themselves devoid of 
antiscorbutic properties can be converted into 

1 Zeitsch. Hygiene, 1912, 72, 121. 



60 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

powerful antiscorbutics by the simple process of 
steeping and germination. This has been suggested 
as a valuable means of protection against scurvy, 1 
and the value of germinated beans as a cure for 
scurvy has been demonstrated by Wiltshire, 2 who 
treated a number of military patients with this 
material and found it quite as efficacious as an equal 
weight of lemon juice. 

Properties of the Antiscorbutic Accessory. Effects 
of Heating and Drying. The outstanding property 
of the antiscorbutic accessory factor is its instability. 
When the materials containing it are heated, dried, 
or even simply preserved, their antiscorbutic pro- 
perties gradually disappear. The effects of heating 
and drying are of special practical importance, and 
have been investigated in this country by Delf 
and Skelton, 3 and in America by Givens and his 
colleagues. 4 When cabbage is dried at a low tem- 
perature and subsequently stored for two to three 
weeks at laboratory temperature, it loses more than 
93 per cent of its antiscorbutic potency, and a 
further loss occurs on continued storage, so that 
after three months only about 3 per cent of its 
original potency remains. Analogous results have 
been obtained with dried potatoes, whereas dried 
tomatoes (Givens and M'Clugage) appear to retain 

1 Chick and Hume, Trans. Soc. Trop. Med. and Hyg., 1917, 10, 141. 

* Lancet, 1918, Dec. 14. 

Delf, Biochem. J., 1918, 12, 416 ; Delf and Skelfcon, Biochem. J., 
1918, 12, 448. 

Various papers in J. Biol. Ghem. 



SCURVY 61 

somewhat more of their antiscorbutic properties, 
and orange juice dried at a lower temperature 
still more. 1 Dried vegetables, therefore, although 
they possess a food value corresponding to the 
amount of protein, carbohydrate and fat con- 
tained in them, cannot be regarded as a substitute 
for fresh vegetables as regards their antiscorbutic 
potency. 

The effect of cooking on the antiscorbutic 
accessory is also seriously to diminish its amount. 
According to Delf cabbage loses 70 per cent of its 
antiscorbutic efficiency in twenty minutes at the 
temperature of boiling water. It should be noted, 
however, that even after this treatment it is more 
efficacious by far than meat juice or milk. Of 
special importance is the effect of prolonged cook- 
ing, such as is practised on the large scale in camps 
and institutions as well as in the popular hay box. 
The effect of lowering the temperature 10 C. (18F.) 
is only to diminish the rate of destruction by about 
30 per cent, so that after being kept for 40-50 
minutes at about 80-90 C. (temperature of simmer- 
ing), the same loss would have occurred as would 
have taken place in twenty minutes at 100. In 
practice vegetables are often}" simmered " for several 
hours and hence lose much more of their anti- 
scorbutic potency than when boiled for a short 
time. In order, therefore, to preserve as much as 

1 Harden and Robison, J.R.A.M.C., 1919, 32, 48. 



62 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

possible of this characteristic and valuable property 
vegetables should be boiled or, better, steamed 
for a short time, rather than stewed for a prolonged 
period. Further, the addition of soda should be 
avoided, as it has been shown that the antiscorbutic 
principle is very sensitive to alkalis. 1 Canning and 
preserving also greatly diminish the antiscorbutic 
value of food-stuffs, and in any circumstances 
which lead to a restricted diet every effort should 
be made to include in it fresh vegetables or ger- 
minated pulses. 

Relation of Experimental to Human Scurvy. 
It may be concluded with a high degree of prob- 
ability that the disease produced experimentally 
in guinea-pigs is the physiological counterpart of 
scurvy in human beings. This conclusion is sup- 
ported in the first place by the close general simi- 
larity of the symptoms in the two cases, and in 
the second place by the important fact that the 
same treatment is effective in curing the disease. 
Further evidence is afforded by the fact that a 
similar disease can be produced in monkeys by 
withholding antiscorbutics from their diet, and 
that the symptoms produced in this case are again 
closely allied to those observed on the one hand in 
guinea-pigs and on the other in human beings, and 
are, moreover, relieved by precisely the same treat- 
ment as is efficacious in these cases. The monkey 

1 Harden and ZUva, 1918, Lancet, Sept. 7. 



SCUKVY 63 

has indeed proved to be a very suitable animal for 
experimental work on scurvy, and, since Hart and 
Lessing's first observations, 1 has been effectively 
employed in the study of the subject. The symp- 
toms produced are strikingly like those of infantile 
scurvy, and, like these, yield very rapidly to treat- 
ment with antiscorbutics. On a diet of boiled rice 
and milk, both autoclaved, together with steamed 
wheat germ (to supply the antineuritic and to 
some extent the fat-soluble factors), the monkey 
develops symptoms of scurvy in six to ten weeks, 
the joints, especially those of the hind limbs, be- 
coming weak, the gums spongy and ulcerated with 
marked haemorrhages, and the teeth loose. Many 
subcutaneous and subperiosteal haemorrhages are 
present, and the costochondral junctions of the ribs 
show marked " rosary " swellings. A monkey in 
this condition was completely cured by the ad- 
ministration of lemon juice freed from acids (p. 69), 
which has also been found effective in curing scurvy 
both in guinea-pigs and babies. Improvement 
commenced in twenty-four hours, and after five 
days the animal was almost normal. An exa- 
mination after two months revealed no traces of 
scorbutic symptoms. 

Susceptibility of Different Animals to Scurvy. 
A very important point which emerges from the 
work on experimental scurvy is that different 

Der Skorbut der kleinen Kinder, 1913. 



64 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

animals exhibit very different degrees of suscep- 
tibility to the disease. This can be judged in 
various ways. Thus it has been found that on a 
diet deprived as far as possible of the antiscorbutic 
factor guinea-pigs develop marked symptoms of 
scurvy in 14-21 days, and die in 28-30 days, whereas 
monkeys only develop the characteristic symptoms 
in about 6-10 weeks, and human beings in as 
many months. 

Results of the same general character are ob- 
tained by ascertaining the minimum dose of an 
antiscorbutic substance which will preserve the 
animal from scurvy. Thus Miss Chick and her 
colleagues have found 1 that on the average a 
guinea-pig of 250 g. weight is protected from scurvy 
by the daily administration of 1*5-2*5 cc. of fresh 
lemon juice, and that a monkey weighing about 
2000 g. is protected by practically the same amount 
of lemon juice (2*5 cc.). Similar results have been 
obtained by Harden and Zilva (unpublished), who 
have kept a monkey for a whole year without any 
development of scurvy by the addition of 2 cc. of 
orange juice to a diet strictly deprived of anti- 
scorbutic factors, whereas the addition of 1*5 cc. 
proved insufficient. The minimum dose of orange 
juice which will preserve a guinea-pig from scurvy 
is also about 1-2 cc. We may therefore conclude 
that the monkey is much less susceptible to scurvy 

1 Lancet, 1918, NOT. 30. 



SCURVY 65 

than the guinea-pig (four to eight times) and, 
arguing from the length of time required for the 
development of the symptoms, that the human 
being is again much less susceptible than the monkey. 

It is a surprising fact that an animal so closely 
allied to the guinea-pig as the rat should never- 
theless be very much less susceptible to scurvy. 
To such a degree is this the case that it is commonly 
supposed that the rat can nourish and produce and 
rear young in an entirely satisfactory manner and 
without exhibiting any symptoms of scurvy on 
diets free from the antiscorbutic factor, such as 
those used by McCollum and his colleagues in their 
experimental work on the accessory factors. These 
consist of purified caseinogen, starch, and salts, with 
the addition of clarified butter fat and autolysed 
yeast. It has, however, been observed * that the 
addition of orange juice to this diet produces a 
pronounced improvement both in the general con- 
dition of the animal and in the rate of growth and 
the maximum weight attained. 

It may therefore be regarded as proved that the 
antiscorbutic factor is an essential constituent of 
the diet of the higher animals, the absence of 
which is in all cases incompatible with the proper 
development of the animal and may lead to serious 
lesions and ultimately to death. 

1 Harden and Zilva, Biochem. J., 1918, 21, 408, confirmed by 
Drummond, Biochem. J., 1919, 13, 77. 

F 



66 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

Some Practical Applications to Human Diets. 
Prominent among the antiscorbutics upon which 
reliance was placed by the old-time seamen were 
beer and infusion of malt the sweet wort familiar 
to the reader of Captain Cook's voyages. Freshly 
brewed beer, spruce beer and malt, -for the pre- 
paration of the sweet wort, were frequently carried 
as preventives against the scurvy by the ships of 
the navy and of Arctic explorers, and these 
materials all seem to have been used with good 
effect. 

An investigation of modern beers and of the malt 
from which they are prepared 1 has shown that 
these are sadly deficient in the antiscorbutic factor. 
Guinea-pigs receiving malt or a considerable ration 
of bottled beer or stout were not in any way pro- 
tected from the onset of scurvy, and the same was 
true of a monkey which was given, and after some 
experience appeared to enjoy, a daily ration of 
about 180 cc. of India Pale Ale of an original 
gravity of 1053, fined and drawn from the wood. 
This beer is representative of that largely con- 
sumed in normal times and was freshly brewed, no 
sample having been in the cask more than a week 
or so. If we can accept the experience of Captain 
Cook and the earlier Arctic explorers as reliable, it 
would seem probable that the difference between 
the old and the modern beer may lie in the high 

1 Harden and Zilva, J. Inst. Bretoing, 1918, 24, 197. 



SCURVY 67 

temperature now employed for the kilning of malt, 
and air-dried malt and the wort and beer made 
from it should contain the antiscorbutic principle. 
This surmise has, however, not yet been put to the 
test of experiment. The fining of the beer, whereby 
it is freed from suspended matter, may also be of 
importance, since, although yeast itself does not 
contain the antiscorbutic, it is possible that this 
may be adsorbed in the process of fining and thereby 
removed from the beer. 

Lime- and Lemon-Juice. The high value of the 
various Citrus fruits as antiscorbutics has long 
been appreciated, and for the last century and 
a quarter reliance has been placed in the navy 
and mercantile marine on lime-juice as a sure 
preventive of scurvy. The researches of Miss 
Chick and her colleagues on the experimental, 
and of Mrs. Henderson Smith on the historical 
side * have, however, revealed a very curious state 
of affairs. 

The juice of the lemon (Citrus medica, var. 
limonum) is much more potent antiscorbutically 
than that of the West Indian lime (Citrus medica, 
var. acida) (about four times). When the lime- 
juice is preserved, by the addition of 14 per cent of 
rum, or of salicylic acid, it loses a considerable pro- 
portion of its already small potency and becomes 
of extremely low value as an antiscorbutic. Hence 

1 J.&.A.M.C., 1919, 32, 93, 188. 



68 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

it would appear that the modern use of lime-juice 
as an antiscorbutic is based on a misconception of 
the value of this material. How this came about 
has been elucidated by Mrs. Henderson Smith, and 
the subject affords a striking example of the danger 
of making even the smallest generalisation on 
dietetic questions without a sound experimental 
basis of fact. In the old days the term " lime- 
juice " was applied to the juice of fruit obtained 
from the Mediterranean countries, which chiefly 
comprised lemons, but also probably included the 
sweet lime (Citrus medica, var. limetta). This juice 
was highly potent, and it was by its use that the 
navy was freed from the terrible scourge which 
had previously devastated it. At a subsequent 
date, however (about 1866), the West Indian lime 
was substituted, without experimental enquiry, for 
the Mediterranean fruits. Scurvy was then no 
longer to be feared at sea, except in unusual cir- 
cumstances, such as those of Arctic exploration, 
and the records show that from that date the 
official " lime-juice " ceased to be of any value as 
an antiscorbutic. 

It seems probable that the Admiralty in making 
the change in 1866 were to some extent influenced 
by the superior acidity of the West Indian juice, 
since it was commonly held that the antiscorbutic 
potency was due to the citric acid which is char- 
acteristic of all these juices. It is now known, 



SCURVY 69 

however, that this is not the case. 1 In fact, the 
whole of the free citric acid can be removed from 
the juice by treating with calcium carbonate and 
precipitating with alcohol without any appreciable 
loss of antiscorbutic power. The solution obtained 
in this way, after evaporation at a low temperature, 
has a neutral reaction, and contains only one- 
seventh of the total solids and one-half of the 
mineral constituents of the original lemon-juice. 
It is of great value as a remedial agent (p. 71) 
and can, by evaporation, be brought to a much 
higher concentration of the antiscorbutic principle 
than that of the original lemon- juice. 

Milk and Milk Products. Great interest attaches 
to the question of the antiscorbutic value of milk 
and the various preparations now made from it, on 
account of their supreme importance as food for 
infants. The breast-fed child depends entirely on 
its mother's milk for all the accessory factors which 
are necessary for life, but, since the human organism 
is apparently unable to build up these essential 
substances for itself, the mother is herself dependent 
for them on her diet. Accordingly an adequate 
provision in the milk can only be maintained when 
the diet of the mother is itself adequate, and it is 
of the utmost importance that the diet of pregnant 
and lactating women should be chosen so as to 
contain abundance not only of the antiscorbutic 

1 Harden and Zilva, Biochem. /., 1918, 12, 259. 



70 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

but also of the antineuritic and fat-soluble acces- 
sories. The artificially-fed child depends as a rule 
on some form of cow's milk. Now cow's milk has been 
found * to have such a low antiscorbutic value that 
guinea-pigs, which are protected from scurvy by one 
gram of cabbage daily, require as much as 100 cc. 
of milk to keep them free from the disease. Further, 
boiling or drying the milk undoubtedly diminishes 
its antiscorbutic value, so that infants fed on 
sterilised milk or dried milk can only be receiving 
a very small supply of the antiscorbutic value. 
Medical opinions vary as to the necessity for sup- 
plementing a diet of boiled or dried milk with some 
other source of antiscorbutic, and it is a fact that 
pronounced scurvy is rarely seen as a consequence 
of such a diet. It has, however, been pointed out 
that many children show symptoms of what has 
been termed latent and subacute scurvy. 2 These, 
although not resulting in serious illness, neverthe- 
less constitute a danger to the well-being of the 
child and are at once relieved by the administration 
of antiscorbutics. It is impossible at present to 
say what may be the effect on the child's sub- 
sequent development of a partial deficiency of anti- 
scorbutic during infancy, but it is certainly to be 
avoided if possible. It has recently been shown, 
for example, 8 that profound changes in the teeth 

1 Chick, Hume and Skelton, Biochem. J., 1918, 12, 131. 

2 Hess and Fish, Amer. J. of Diseases of Children, 1914, 8, 385. 
8 Zilva and Wells, Proc. Roy. Soc., 1919, B 90, 606. 



SCURVY 71 

are among the very earliest results of a deficiency 
of the antiscorbutic principle, and these may occur 
(in guinea-pigs) while the animal is still growing 
well and is apparently in good health. Whether 
such effects are also produced in young children, 
and whether an early deficiency affects deleteriously 
the subsequent development of the permanent teeth, 
are questions which have not yet been answered. 

The antiscorbutic usually given to young 
children is some kind of fruit- juice, but it is well 
to remember that fruit- juices differ very consider- 
ably in potency, that of the orange being greatly 
superior, for example, to apple-juice or grape- 
juice. 1 The juice of raw swedes is also of great 
value in this respect, and can be readily and 
cheaply prepared. 

For use as remedies in cases of pronounced in- 
fantile scurvy orange-juice, grape- juice, and "potato- 
cream " (i.e. powdered cooked potato beaten up 
with milk) are all used. An additional and effective 
remedy is afforded by the lemon-juice deprived of 
free citric acid, to which reference has been already 
made (p. 69). Obtained from a material which has 
a very high potency, this preparation has the great 
advantage over others that, owing to its freedom 
from acid and to the small amount of extraneous 
matter present, it is tolerated in very large quan- 
tities by ailing children and does not cause any 

1 See Chick and Rhodes, Lancet, 1918, Deo. 7 , 



72 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

digestive disturbance. 1 An account of the effect of 
this remedy in the treatment of a case of scurvy 
will serve to illustrate these points and, at the same 
time, to show the distressing nature of the disease 
as manifested in young children. The child a male 
infant aged seven months had been fed on sterilised 
humanised milk from birth and had received the 
juice of one orange once a week for five months. 
At 5j months the gums were swollen and bled 
easily, and after another week he began to scream 
as if in pain when moved. (This is a very charac- 
teristic symptom of infantile scurvy.) On admis- 
sion to hospital the upper gums were greatly swollen, 
dark purple and fungating, projecting almost be- 
tween the lips. The edge of the central incisors 
could just be seen, almost buried in the swollen, 
projecting gums. The legs were motionless except 
for movements of ankles and toes. Both legs 
seemed very painful to touch. There was some 
recent haemorrhage into vaccination scars and the 
urine contained red blood cells. 

The infant was put upon a diet of undiluted 
boiled milk, which clinical experience has shown to 
have no curative effect on scurvy. One ounce of 
the concentrated preparation, equivalent to double 
the bulk of original lemon-juice, was given three 
times a day, i.e. the equivalent of about four lemons 
daily. 

1 Harden, Zilva and Still, Lancet, 1919, Jan. 4. 



SCURVY 73 

Improvement was noticeable in eighteen hours, 
and the child rapidly progressed to complete re- 
covery. In five days he had taken the equivalent 
of the juice of forty-two lemons without the slightest 
disturbance of digestion. 

Although the distribution of the antiscorbutic 
accessory is now becoming well known and the 
serious character of the effects produced by its 
absence from the diet are well established and 
familiar, little progress has been made in the 
elucidation of the nature of this mysterious prin- 
ciple or of the mode in which it works. These 
points remain for future investigation, but, thanks 
to the pioneer work of Hoist and Frolich and to 
its subsequent development in this country and 
America, we have now sufficient information to 
enable us to prevent the appearance of scurvy as 
a disease either in adults or children, and it rests 
with us to see that this knowledge is effectively 
applied. 



PHYSIOLOGY IN THE STUDY OF DISEASE 

BY 

D. NOEL PATON, M.D., F.R.S. 

BEGITJ8 PROFESSOB OF PHYSIOLOGY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF GLASGOW 



75 



PHYSIOLOGY IN THE STUDY OF DISEASE 

PREVIOUS lectures in this course have doubtless 
made clear to you how the study of physiology, of 
the human body in action, is the basis of all our 
knowledge of practical hygiene the means of 
keeping healthy. 

To-day I wish to show you that it is also the 
basis of all our study of disease, for disease is 
simply normal or physiological action gone wrong. 
What the physician has to find out in every case 
is simply what has gone wrong, and why it has gone 
wrong, before he attempts to put it right. 

I think that one of the great mistakes in the past 
has been to study disease without this constant 
reference to the normal physiological condition. 
The tendency has been to group a collection of 
symptoms together and to name it as a disease 
without full consideration of what the symptoms 
mean in terms of normal action, or of how they are 
produced. As a result of this the practitioner of 
medicine is too frequently content when he has 
observed the symptoms and given a name to the 
condition : too seldom does he force himself to 

77 



78 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

ask the questions, " What is wrong ? " " Why is it 
wrong ? " Unless he does so the treatment must be 
merely empirical. Such and such a drug has been 
recommended by such and such an authority, 
therefore it is used without any consideration of 
how it acts in the body or how it can modify the 
patient's condition. 

This way of looking at disease breeds an un- 
critical spirit which tends to credulity, to seeing 
things not as they are but as they are expected to 
be, and to a blind acceptance of imperfectly tested 
lines of treatment based on superficial and in- 
accurate observations. Witness the authoritative 
statements by Dr. This or That on the treatment 
of influenza or on the action of alcohol ! 

Few people seem to recognise how much medicine 
even at the present time is based upon mere 
empiricism. 

Every one who knows about it knows how 
impotent medical treatment is to cure disease when 
once established, when once structural changes 
have occurred. 

The slight divergencies from the normal, the 
slight upsets of physiological action, which are the 
first stage in the development of real disease are 
too often ignored. Only when the process has so 
advanced that organic changes, with the definite train 
of symptoms which follow them, have appeared 
is the condition dignified by the name of a disease, 



PHYSIOLOGY IN THE STUDY OF DISEASE 79 

or does the physician make a diagnosis. If the 
slight disturbance of action which precedes organic 
disease were studied from the physiological stand- 
point, with reference to the question of what 
structures are working wrongly and why they 
are working wrongly, medical treatment would 
have a better chance of success in effecting a cure. 

I am not sure that the naming of diseases has 
not greatly obstructed the advance of medicine. 
Generally the name is devised from Greek, as at 
the time of Galen, and as few practitioners under- 
stand Greek, this only helps to obscure the nature 
of the condition, and, at the same time, the extent 
of their ignorance of its nature. 

Thus, if a child's head is enlarged by an accumu- 
lation of fluid inside, many are content to say that 
it suffers from hydrocephalus, which simply means 
water on the head, but few force themselves in 
every case of the kind to determine why the fluid 
should have accumulated there. 

But to multiply such examples is unnecessary. 

For these reasons it seems that it would be well 
for medicine if most names of diseases were abolished 
and if each case were approached from the physio- 
logical side with the questions : " What organs are 
working rightly in the patient ? " " What organs 
are working wrongly ? " " Why are they working 
wrongly ? " " Can they be put right, and if so, 
how ? " 



80 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

The physiologist spends his life studying the 
ways in which the activities of the various parts of 
the body may be investigated, in determining what 
is the normal action of each of these various parts, 
how they interact on one another, and how they 
are modified by various conditions ; and he is 
thus trained to find out if any part is not working 
rightly, and why it is not working rightly. 

So far as regards their relations to medicine, the 
sciences of bacteriology and of pharmacology are 
really extensions of physiology, since they involve 
the study of the manner in which bacteria and 
their products modify the normal working of the 
organs, and of the ways in which various drugs 
influence these vital processes. 

Without a training in medicine the physiologist 
can approach the study of disease with some 
prospect of success ; without a knowledge of 
physiology the physician is merely groping in the 
dark. 

But, you say, " every medical student has this 
physiological training." I am afraid that too 
frequently physiology is studied by the student 
not as a preparation for the after-study of disease, 
but as a means of passing a certain examination, 
too frequently the teacher fails to keep before 
himself and his students why they are studying 
physiology, with the result that, when the student 
comes to the bedside, he does not bring with him 



PHYSIOLOGY IN THE STUDY OF DISEASE 81 

that training which is all-important in his practical 
work. This failure on the part of the physiological 
teacher has been recently emphasised in the 
British Medical Journal and elsewhere. 

But I venture to think that not infrequently 
the fault lies not with the physiological teacher 
but with the hospital physician under whom the 
student finds himself. The physician, after an 
inadequate study of the science of physiology in the 
remote past, may have lost all touch and all 
sympathy with the science of to-day, may have sunk 
into an easy empiricism, and may be content to 
cloak his ignorance by sneers at the application of 
scientific methods to practice. 

Such an influence on students is most pre- 
judicial, tending as it does to obliterate the training 
in scientific methods of study which they have 
acquired in their earlier years. 

Reform is needed in the physiological teacher 
on the one hand, and in the hospital physician on 
the other. The one must keep the object of his 
training of medical students constantly before 
him ; the other must keep in touch with the 
growing science of physiology, and must welcome 
all applications of physiological methods to his work. 

What is wanted is some one who can show 
them how these scientific methods are to be 
carried into practice at the bedside, some one 
who will keep before the students the necessity 

Q 



82 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

of applying physiological knowledge to find out 
what is different from the normal action in every 
case in fact, a Clinical Physiologist. 

The physiological methods of studying disease 
cannot better be illustrated than by giving one or 
two examples. 

I shall first take two from our recent war 
experience, and finally one from ordinary medical 
practice. 

I. GASSING 

Every one remembers the wave of horror that 
swept over the country in April 1915 when we 
heard of the hideous suffering inflicted by the first 
gas attack by the Germans. When thousands of 
our poor fellows were brought in, enduring agonies 
from this ^new devilment of war, the doctors in 
charge were faced with something of which they 
had no knowledge, something which they knew 
not how to relieve. The first thing was to find 
to what the distressing symptoms were due, in 
order that either the cause might in some way be 
directly counteracted, or that, if the primary 
disturbance could not be counteracted, some 
measures might be devised by which the patient 
might be temporarily relieved till nature had time 
to re-establish more normal conditions. 

Haldane, a physiologist, was sent out. His 
brilliant researches upon normal breathing and 



PHYSIOLOGY IN THE STUDY OF DISEASE 83 

the practical application of his results to mine- 
rescue work had marked him as the man most 
likely to be able to determine what was wrong and 
why it was wrong. 

Since his early studies, other physiologists have 
joined in the investigations, and we soon learned 
the cause of the various symptoms, and how best 
the patient may be tided over the most dangerous 
period. 

When a man is gassed with chlorine or with 
phosgene, a gas which yields chlorine when it has 
reached the lungs, he is generally found propped 
up, the face is usually of a dark plum colour, the 
breathing is rapid, deep, and struggling, and frothy 
fluid is coughed up. The heart is beating rapidly. 
The veins of the neck and arms are distended. He 
is restless and distressed, or he may sink into a 
drowsy condition. In other cases the lips are blue, 
the face has an ashy pallor, and the respirations are 
not so markedly increased. The distress is less, 
but these are the cases most apt to die. 

A knowledge of physiology without any training 
in medicine explains these symptoms. The dark 
plum colour of the face is due to the fact that blood 
not properly supplied with oxygen is coursing in 
the blood-vessels. We know that blood when 
properly oxygenated has a bright red colour, giving 
to the skin its characteristic hue in health. When 
deprived of oxygen it becomes of a dark purple 



84 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

tint. Manifestly, then, these gassed men are not 
getting oxygen for the blood. 

Oxygen is got by the blood from the air in the 
lungs. Air is drawn in with every breath and 
reaches millions of little sacs which form the lung, 
and in the walls of these sacs run the blood-vessels 
carrying the blood. The blood gives up the 
carbonic acid it has brought from the tissues, and 
takes up oxygen from the air in the sacs. The 
examination of the lung of a patient who has died 
from gassing at once showed that it is full, not of 
air, but of fluid. 

Manifestly, then, if the air-sacs are full of fluid, 
the air with oxygen cannot get to the blood, and 
the patient is drowned as much as if he had fallen 
into the sea. 

But how did the fluid get into the air-sacs ? 

The study of the application of irritating sub- 
stances to the web of a frog's foot had long ago 
shown that one result is a dilatation of all the little 
blood-vessels, so that they become so engorged 
with blood that it cannot freely flow away to the 
veins. As a result of this the fluid part of the 
blood filters out into the tissues. 

Chlorine in the lung acts just in the same way, 
and the fluid exudes into the air-sacs. Hence 
this drowning from within ; hence, too, this escape 
of fluid as the patient coughs. 

But why the difficult breathing ? Why the 



PHYSIOLOGY IN THE STUDY OF DISEASE 85 

restlessness and the distress and later drowsiness ? 
Why the quick pulse ? and why the congestion of 
the veins ? Are these due to different causes or 
to some common cause ? 

The work of Haldane and of others had shown 
that the breathing is regulated by the condition 
of the blood going to the base of the brain. If the 
carbonic acid formed in the muscles and passed 
from them into the blood increases above a certain 
level, breathing is increased, and thus the carbonic 
acid is got rid of. 

In the case of the gassed patient carbonic acid 
cannot freely get away, and so it accumulates in 
the blood and increases the breathing. It is a 
beneficent response, for the increased breathing 
helps to overcome the effect of the drowning out 
of the lung, and not only favours the giving up of 
carbonic acid, but at the same time helps to increase 
the taking up of oxygen by the blood. 

What of the restlessness and distress and the 
later drowsiness ? Physiological investigations have 
shown that these are not the result of the increased 
carbonic acid in the blood, but of a decrease in the 
oxygen. 

It is this want of oxygen which is the real 
danger. Life is simply a process of combustion for 
which oxygen is as necessary as it is for a fire, and 
a decreased supply of oxygen is incompatible with 
life. 



86 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

First it leads to increased excitability of the 
nervous system, then later to decreased activity, 
and so to the drowsiness which comes as a relief 
to the patient, but as a danger-signal to the 
physician. 

Not only is the nervous system thus acted on by 
the want of oxygen, but the heart also suffers. 
First its rate is increased, then its action begins to 
fail, blood is no longer driven onwards, and the 
patient may pass into the condition of collapse 
with the ashy grey face and blue lips that so 
frequently precede death. 

Want of oxygen is the prime cause of all the 
symptoms. 

How can this condition be relieved ? 

Ordinary air contains about one-fifth of its bulk 
of oxygen. If the air can get freely into the air- 
sacs this proportion of oxygen is sufficient, but 
if a large number of air-sacs are full of fluid, the 
best chance is to give a much higher proportion of 
oxygen to the sacs which are still available, or to 
enable it to be taken up by the fluid, and which 
may thus reach the blood. 

Inhalations of oxygen were recommended by 
Haldane on these physiological grounds, and have 
proved of the utmost value in tiding the patient 
over this critical stage till the natural drainage 
from the lungs has removed the fluid from the 
air-sacs. 



PHYSIOLOGY IN THE STUDY OF DISEASE 87 

But in many cases the blood is dammed back in 
the lungs, and the heart gets over-distended and 
cannot drive it on to carry the oxygen to the body. 
In such a condition the veins are distended with 
blood, and bleeding by opening one of them relieves 
the pressure on the heart and enables it to drive 
the blood onward. This has been found useful 
in many cases, even although it decreases the 
amount of oxygen-carrying blood. 

Thus you see that a study of the physiology is 
alone sufficient to elucidate the real nature of the 
condition, to tell what is wrong and why it is 
wrong, and to suggest the appropriate line of 
treatment. 

Of course the further question of whether it is 
possible to render these poisonous gases innocuous 
had to be tackled. The chemist was called in. It 
had been found that charcoal has a peculiar action 
in absorbing and holding on to these gases. It 
was argued that if air containing these poisonous 
gases were made to pass through a layer of charcoal, 
it should be possible to breathe it with safety. 

Physiologists, when investigating breathing, had 
devised methods to enable people and animals to 
breathe through valves, so as to separate the out- 
going from the ingoing air, and these valves had 
been applied to masks to be worn by those engaged 
in life-saving operations after colliery explosions 
to secure them a supply of oxygen. It was thus 



88 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

possible to arrange that the air containing the 
noxious gas should be inhaled through charcoal 
placed in the inlet to the mask. 

Hence chemists and physiologists together de- 
vised these gas masks with which every one is now 
familiar, and which so successfully overcame the 
dangers of gas attacks. 

II. WOUND SHOCK 

Let me now give you another example. You 
all know how, in the prolonged and monstrous 
battles of the war, men were stricken down while 
bathed with sweat or drenched with rain, and you 
know that, in spite of all the bravery of the bearer 
companies and the R.A.M.C., it was not possible 
at once to get them to the dressing-stations. 

Sometimes the wound at once led to a condition 
resembling fainting, in which the soldier became 
collapsed and senseless. Very often this did not 
come on at once, but after a time the man became 
cold, covered with a cold sweat, his skin pale, his 
face drawn, pinched, and grey, his pulse rapid and 
feeble, and his breathing quick and shallow. 
Gradually he might become unconscious and die. 

This is the condition to which the name of 
" wound shock " has been given. What is the 
meaning of these symptoms ? What is wrong, 
why is it wrong, how is it to be remedied ? Fortu- 



PHYSIOLOGY IN THE STUDY OF DISEASE 89 

nately here nature pointed to some of the measures 
which should be taken. What the sufferer com- 
plained of was thirst and cold ; what he craved 
for were water and warmth. 

In slight cases these were sufficient to save 
life for the reasons we shall presently discuss, 
but in many cases they were insufficient, and in 
spite of them the patient died. 

The condition of " shock " or collapse was by no 
means unknown. Surgeons were already familiar 
with it in operations, chiefly upon the abdomen, 
and physiologists had made some attempts to 
elucidate it. 

But now the demand was for definite knowledge 
immediately. A committee of physiologists was 
formed under the Medical Research Committee, and 
in co-operation with physicians and surgeons they 
got to work. Soon it became manifest that the 
prime cause of the condition is a failure in the 
circulation of the blood, so that it no longer carries 
the all-important oxygen to the tissues of the body. 
Here again, as in gassing, the danger is death from 
want of oxygen to the tissues, but in this case not 
from a failure of oxgyen to get to the blood, but 
from a failure of the blood to carry the oxygen to 
the tissues. 
5* What is the cause of the failure ? 

You all know that water flows from a point of 
high pressure to a point of low pressure. The flow 



90 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

of blood in the body is maintained by a high 
pressure being kept up in the vessels leaving the 
heart, and a low pressure in the vessels returning 
blood to the heart. 

If from any cause the head or pressure of blood 
in the arteries falls, the flow of blood must be 
decreased. 

From 1733, when the Rev. Stephen Hales made 
his classical experiments upon the horse, physio- 
logists had done an enormous amount of work upon 
animals in investigating this pressure this head 
of blood, and they had devised methods and 
instruments which enabled the pressure to be 
measured in man without any operative inter- 
ference. 

When these methods were applied hi cases of 
wound shock it was found that there is a marked 
decrease in the pressure, a decrease which is roughly 
proportionate to the severity of the symptoms. 

To what is this due ? The pressure in the 
arteries is kept up by the force of the pump the 
heart and by the obstruction to the onflow of 
blood offered by the smaller arteries. If either 
of these is decreased the pressure will fall. 

The experimental work of Starling and his co- 
workers has shown that the heart is a pump beauti- 
fully adjusted to send on just as much blood as 
comes to it, so that the feeble action of the heart 
in these cases must either be due to some failure 



PHYSIOLOGY IN THE STUDY OF DISEASE 91 

in its power of working or to a deficient supply of 
blood reaching it. That its power of action is not 
impaired is shown by the fact that if more fluid 
is supplied to it, it can respond at once by increased 
activity. Hence we conclude that the low pressure 
is not due to failure of the heart. 

Is it due to a relaxation of the little arteries ? 
These are controlled by the nervous system so that 
if the pressure in the arteries falls they contract 
and thus keep up the head of blood so essential 
for the circulation. Has this mechanism got out of 
action ? It is very probable that, in the early 
shock or fainting which may immediately follow 
a wound, it is thrown out of action, but in these 
later cases no such failure seems to exist. 

Why then is there this fall in the pressure ? In 
some cases it is due to loss of blood from wounds, 
but in many others the loss of blood has been small, 
and we know from physiological experiments that 
such a loss is soon made good by the passage of 
fluid from the tissues to the blood. Of course there 
might be some interference with this passage of 
fluid, but that this is not so is indicated by the 
result obtained on administering fluid which passes 
into the vessels and raises the pressure for a time. 
The only possibility left then seems to be that 
a considerable amount of blood has gone out of 
effective circulation, that it must have got side- 
tracked and stored up somewhere. 



92 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

Now all through the tissues there is a dense net- 
work of minute vessels, the capillaries. We know 
that these in certain conditions get dilated and that 
blood tends to stagnate in them. This is well seen 
in the reddening of the hands or nose in cold 
weather, a condition which, if it goes on, passes into 
a blueing, the result of the removal of oxygen from 
the stagnant blood. 

A substance has been found which when injected 
into the circulation of animals leads to a dilatation 
of these vessels without any dilatation of the small 
arteries, and it is a substance which might be 
formed in lacerated tissues. 

Thus, if a considerable quantity of the blood 
stagnates in the capillaries, the amount in effective 
circulation will be decreased, so that the amount 
sent to the heart will be so reduced that its action 
will be lessened, and the head of blood required to 
keep up the circulation will fall. As this fall occurs, 
the force driving the blood through the capillaries 
will be lessened and the stagnation will increase. 
But as the blood ceases to flow freely through the 
lungs, its supply of oxygen will also be decreased 
and so less blood carrying less oxygen will be taken 
to the tissues. 

This, then, being the explanation of the condi- 
tion What is to be done ? Manifestly to get up 
the head of fluid in the arteries so as to re-establish 
the circulation. How is this to be done ? The 



PHYSIOLOGY IN THE STUDY OF DISEASE 93 

most natural idea would be to inject blood into the 
depleted vessels. This transfusion of blood has 
been used for a long time to make good great losses 
of blood by haemorrhage. Unfortunately the 
blood of lower animals cannot be safely used, since 
it is injurious to the blood of the receiver. It is 
often difficult to get human blood, and the use of 
this is also not without danger. Great care must 
be exercised in determining the character of the 
blood of the donor. Plain water cannot be used, 
for it destroys the cells of the blood. But a solution 
of salt may be made which does not do so, and this 
has been tried. It certainly raises the blood 
pressure, but only for a very brief period, because 
it exudes from the vessels and the patient's condi- 
tion is not permanently relieved. 

Bayliss reasoned that the fluid which must be 
introduced must resemble blood in its more im- 
portant physical characters, and must not produce 
any prejudicial effect. Much time had been spent 
by physicists and physiologists in the study of what 
appeared to be matters of purely scientific interest, 
the exact physical condition of the colloidal state 
of matter, and of the phenomena of osmosis and of 
viscosity. From his knowledge of these studies 
Bayliss drew the conclusion that a solution of gum- 
arabic of a certain strength should fulfil the conditions. 
He tried it first upon animals, and found that its 
introduction raised the blood pressure and main- 



94 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

tained it because it did not escape from the vessels ; 
and he found that the feeble heart when given this 
fluid to contract upon responded and drove it 
through the tissues, so that the supply of oxygen 
to them was restored, and recovery was rendered 
possible, provided the condition of shock had not 
gone on too long. His method has been applied 
in the field, and has been proved to be of great 
service in many cases. 

In the light of these observations the patient's 
craving for water is explained. It is due to there 
being too little blood in effective circulation, and 
the free administration of water which is in part 
absorbed into the blood serves in slight cases to 
raise the blood pressure sufficiently to allow of 
recovery. 

The sense of cold is due to the stagnation of 
the blood the warm blood from the interior is not 
sent to the skin, where alone are placed the nerve 
structures which when stimulated give us the 
sense of cold. 

Physiologists have thus explained the main 
disturbance involved ; and although their evidence 
of the accumulation of blood in the capillaries 
cannot be considered conclusive, they have been 
able to suggest a line of treatment which has 
proved of the greatest service. 

The first example I have given shows how by 
the investigation of physiologists the cause of the 



PHYSIOLOGY IN THE STUDY OF DISEASE 95 

condition was made clear, and the proper treatment 
indicated. 

The second example shows how the work of 
physiologists proved the essential nature of the 
condition and pointed out the line of treatment, 
but has still definitely to solve some parts of the 
problem. 

Let me now give an example of how physiological 
study has advanced our knowledge of disease, but 
has so far failed to clear up the problem completely 
or to discover the method of treatment. It has 
given us an advanced post from which further 
progress should be possible. 

III. TETANY 

Few of you have heard of the disease tetany 
not tetanus, a very different condition. It chiefly 
affects young children, and very specially those 
suffering from rickets. In an investigation into 
the social conditions associated with the develop- 
ment of that still mysterious disease, Miss Ferguson 
found no evidence of tetany in any of the non- 
rickety children studied, while it was or had been 
present in 42 per cent of the children with rickets. 

When fully developed, tetany is characterised 
by a peculiar rigidity of the muscles chiefly of the 
hands and feet, which leads to the hand being fixed 
in a peculiar position and to the feet being strongly 
bent with the toes pointing downwards. The other 



96 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

muscles of the arms and legs may be affected. The 
muscles of the larynx are also sometimes in spasm 
and cause a peculiar crowing sound in breathing, 
especially when the child cries. Frequently the 
condition goes on to the development of general 
convulsions, in one of which the child may die. 
The condition may be latent for long periods, but 
it may then be detected by the fact that the nerves 
and muscles are peculiarly excitable so that a tap 
on the side of the face will cause a characteristic 
spasm at the angle of the mouth, while an electric 
current produces a peculiarly exaggerated effect 
when applied over the nerves or the muscles. 

A somewhat similar condition is sometimes 
found in adults of certain districts, more frequently 
attacking those engaged in sedentary employment, 
such as shoemakers. 

Many different theories have been from time to 
time advanced as to the cause of the condition, 
since Clarke first described it in 1815 ; but the first 
important light was thrown by Austrian and Swiss 
surgeons when the operation of removing goitres- 
tumours of the thyroid gland came into vogue. 

They found that a certain proportion of the 
patients after operation suffered from a condition 
of tetany. This they thought to be due to removal 
of the thyroid gland. But closely associated with 
the thyroid are little structures which from their 
position have been called the parathyroids, and 



PHYSIOLOGY IN THE STUDY OF DISEASE 97 

certain Italian physiologists first proved that it is 
the removal of these and not of the thyroid which 
is followed by the symptom of tetany. 

When in 1913 I was writing upon the various 
structures which, like the thyroid, regulate the 
chemical changes in the body, I was struck by our 
ignorance of the functions of these parathyroids 
and of the want of knowledge of how their removal 
caused this peculiar condition. 

This set me to work to try to find out, and in this 
investigation I was joined by Dr. Leonard Findlay 
of the Eoyal Hospital for Sick Children, Glasgow, 
and by various members of the Staff of my Labora- 
tory. It gives me pleasure to acknowledge the 
financial help given by the Medical Kesearch Com- 
mittee in the prosecution of these investigations. 

As the result of our experiments we were able to 
show that, after removal of the parathyroids from 
animals, some injurious or toxic substance develops 
in the blood and causes the symptoms, and that 
if the animal be bled and salt solution run into 
the circulation the symptoms disappear for some 
time, but recur. This observation had been previ- 
ously made by Macallum. We found that the 
spasm of the muscles is due to increased excita- 
bility of the nerve-cells in the spinal cord from which 
the nerves to the muscles take their origin, but that, 
on the other hand, the increased response of the 

nerves and muscles to mechanical or electrical 

H 



98 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

stimulation is due to some action in the endings 
of the nerves in the muscles. The two are inde- 
pendent of one another, and one or other may be 
more marked. 

We had next to try to discover what this toxic 
substance with these peculiar actions might be. 
Evidently it was something developed in the body 
either only after the parathyroids are removed or 
to a greater extent than usual after the ablation 
of these structures. 

In the laboratory at this time another set of 
investigations were in progress, upon the signifi- 
cance of a substance found in muscle, a substance, 
which is itself not poisonous, but which when broken 
down yields a poisonous substance known as 
guanidin. This guanidin also occurs built into all 
living tissue in a harmless combination. 

Well, we discovered that the administration of 
guanidin produces in animals the symptoms of 
tetany. 

But this was not enough ; we had to show that 
in the tetany produced by removing the para- 
thyroids from animals, and in the spontaneous 
tetany of children, the amount of guanidin in the 
blood is increased. 

This Burns and Sharpe demonstrated to be the 
case, and thus it would seem that tetany is due to 
the liberation of this substance, and that the para- 
thyroids somehow control its production. 



PHYSIOLOGY IN THE STUDY OF DISEASE 99 

How the parathyroids act we do not know, and 
whether they alone control the production of 
guanidin we do not yet know. 

But our work has pretty clearly shown that these 
various forms of tetany have some common origin, 
and that in all probability a defective action of the 
parathyroids is the cause of the condition. 

Till we know more of the essential nature of the 
changes in the body which lead to the liberation 
of guanidin, to suggest lines of treatment is hopeless. 
We must simply go on investigating till the secret 
is wholly revealed. 

The study of tetany is, I think, a good illustra- 
tion of the way in which laboratories and hospitals 
should be combined for the study of disease. The 
combination has been too rare in the past, but there 
is, I think, a growing recognition of the fact that 
in this way alone can our knowledge of disease be 
increased. It is the man trained as a physiologist 
who is prepared to devote his whole time to the study 
of disease in the wards of the hospital, who is of 
real use in advancing knowledge and in training 
students to carry on such work. Provision must 
be made to relieve such men of the necessity of 
devoting a large part of their time to general and 
consulting practice as a means of making a liveli- 
hood. An adequate wage must be provided for 
them. 

I have tried to show you how physiology and a 



100 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

physiological training may be used in the advance- 
ment of medicine. But it must be distinctly under- 
stood that the study of physiology must be under- 
taken in no utilitarian spirit. 

The object of the physiologist must be to attempt 
to solve all the problems of the way in which living 
matter acts without considering whether the know- 
ledge may be of use to humanity. At present I 
fear there is a great tendency to insist that all 
investigations shall have a utilitarian object ; but 
all experience has shown that most of the important 
advances in the application of science to medi- 
cine have been based upon investigations which 
primarily seemed to have no direct bearing on the 
well-being of mankind. 

The application to practical surgery by Lord 
Lister of Pasteur's apparently purely academic 
researches in the origin of life are well known to 
every one. 

I have already referred to the apparently 
unprofitable study of the colloidal state of matter, 
of viscosity and of the process of osmosis none of 
which seemed to have any possible bearing upon 
human welfare ; and I have shown how in the hands 
of Bayliss the knowledge thus gained was applied 
to the treatment of " wound shock." 

When Galvani started his research on the elec- 
trical phenomena of muscle and subsequent 
physiologists carried these on, who would have 



PHYSIOLOGY IN THE STUDY OF DISEASE 101 

thought that it would ever be applied to the 
diagnosis and prognosis of disease of the heart ? 

You may perhaps wonder that people exist who 
can devote their lives to the investigation of what 
appears to have no direct utility. Fortunately 
such people do exist, people imbued with the spirit 
of curiosity, with an insatiable thirst for knowledge 
for its own sake, and quite apart from any possi- 
bility of its being found useful. 

To them the pursuit of knowledge is what 
hunting is to the hunter, and fishing to the angler. 
It absorbs all their energies, and in the difficulties to 
be contended with they find their chief joys. Were 
it not so the life of scientific investigators would be 
incomprehensible. The difficulties are enormous : 
the disappointments sustained are endless, and the 
prizes secured usually but small when compared 
with the time and labour expended. What the 
general public have to grasp is that knowledge is 
power, power to enable us to live better under the 
adverse forces against which we have to contend 
that there are a certain number of individuals who 
are born hunters after knowledge, and that it is to 
the advantage of mankind to give them every 
facility for the prosecution of their hunt without 
demanding that a utilitarian goal shall be in sight. 

" Ignorance is the curse of God : Knowledge the 
wings with which we fly to Heaven." 




BY 

ARTHUR DENDY, D.Sc., F.K.S. 

PBOFESSOB OF ZOOLOGY IN THE UNIVEBSITY OF LONDON 



103 



THE CONSEKVATION OF OUR 
CEREAL RESERVES 

IT may appear at first sight that the subject of this 
lecture is of an economic rather than a physiological 
nature and that it is accordingly somewhat out of 
place in the present series. A moment's reflection, 
however, will serve to convince you that this is 
not the case. Indeed, the problem before us how 
best to conserve the cereal reserves of the Empire 
is one which can be solved only by an adequate 
knowledge of the physiology of a considerable 
number of distinct organisms, some of them plants 
and others animals, apart altogether from the fact 
that its importance depends entirely upon the 
physiological requirements of the human body. 

On the one hand, I would remind you that a grain 
of wheat, or maize, or any other cereal you may like 
to name, is a living organism, a seed, containing an 
embryo plant, which, though dormant so long as 
the grain remains dry, is capable, under the influence 
of moisture and warmth, of resuming an active life. 
Even in the dormant condition its vital powers 
are not entirely suspended, and destructive meta- 

105 



106 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

holism, involving the absorption of oxygen and the 
production of carbonic acid gas, or carbon dioxide, 
continues for a very long time even while the grain 
remains ordinarily dry. 

On the other hand, the damage to which stored 
grain of all kinds is subject is very largely, if not 
chiefly, due to the activity of other organisms, 
insects of various kinds, mites, moulds, and probably 
bacteria, to say nothing of rats and mice, which are 
more easily recognised and dealt with. A know- 
ledge of the physiological processes going on in the 
grain, combined with a knowledge of the physio- 
logical requirements of the numerous organisms by 
which it is attacked, is clearly essential to the correct 
understanding and ultimate solution of our problem. 

The zoologist and the botanist must also be con- 
sulted as to the systematic position and life-histories 
of the organisms concerned, and, no less, the archi- 
tect and the engineer, when it comes to a question 
of constructing granaries and so forth. The problem 
has also, of course, its economic and commercial 
sides. I need hardly say that I do not profess to 
be capable of dealing with all these very different 
aspects of the question, and it is chiefly with regard 
to purely biological matters that I venture to ask 
your attention. At the same time I hope to be able 
to convince you that the conclusions at which we 
have already arrived are by no means devoid of 
importance from the strictly utilitarian standpoint. 



GRAIN CONSERVATION 107 

I shall even venture, at the close of this lecture, to 
make some practical suggestions which may perhaps 
be found worthy of consideration by practical men. 

It is unnecessary to insist upon the fact that 
mankind is to a very large extent one might say 
almost entirely dependent upon cereals of various 
kinds for those supplies of carbohydrates so neces- 
sary for his existence. We know that even in 
prehistoric times cereals were cultivated. As 
regards the most important of them wheat the 
great botanist, De Candolle, tells us that " The 
manifold names of ancient languages must, therefore, 
be attributed to the extreme antiquity of its culture 
in the temperate parts of Europe, Asia, and Africa 
an antiquity greater than that of the most ancient 
languages," and that the Chinese, who grew wheat 
2700 years before the commencement of the Chris- 
tian era, considered it a gift direct from Heaven. 

The storage of cereal reserves for future use is 
also a very ancient custom, originating no doubt 
in the obvious necessity for making supplies last 
over from one harvest to the next. At the present 
day it is frequently necessary to store our cereals 
for much longer periods than this. Certain com- 
munities no longer depend entirely upon locally 
grown grain. Certain countries are much better 
suited for cereal production than others and supplies 
have to be transported from the country of origin to 
the place where they are to be consumed. Storage 



108 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

therefore becomes necessary in the country of origin 
while awaiting shipment, and in the country of 
consumption while awaiting distribution to the 
consumer. It may also be desirable to keep large 
reserves on hand in case of emergency, for crops 
may fail or a long war may interfere both with local 
cultivation and with the supply of grain from over- 
seas. In Australia recently, for example, it is said 
that no less than 28 million pounds worth of wheat 
was held up for want of shipping, and owing to the 
absence of proper storage accommodation a large 
part of it was either completely destroyed or very 
seriously damaged. In time of war any country 
which does not grow enough cereals for its own 
needs may become dependent upon stored reserves, 
a fact which has recently become f amiliafto all of us 
by bitter experience of what may take place when 
no adequate supplies have been accumulated. Let 
us hope that we shall never again find ourselves in 
such a precarious position. 

The conservation of our cereal reserves, whether 
in the form of dry grain or of manufactured products, 
such as flour and biscuits, is therefore, from many 
points of view, a matter of extreme national import- 
ance, and the problem of the best method of 
storing such reserves is at present attracting some 
attention, though perhaps not so much as it 
deserves. 

Professor Halliburton has already told us some- 



GRAIN CONSERVATION 109 

thing of the work done by the Royal Society during 
the war in relation to food. He left it to me to speak 
to you of their Grain Pests (War) Committee, which, 
to quote from the Introductory Note to their first 
Report, " was appointed by the Council of the Royal 
Society in June 1916, as the result of a correspond- 
ence with the Board of Agriculture and Fisheries, 
in which the Board requested the Royal Society to 
appoint a Committee 'in relation to the damage 
done to grain by insects.' ' It was as a member of 
this Committee that I first became interested in the 
grain problem. Much work has already been done 
by members of the Committee and by assistants 
paid by the Royal Society. I would call attention 
especially to the valuable Report by my colleagues, 
Professor R. Newstead and Miss Duvall, on the mites 
which attack grain and flour. My own attention 
was at first directed to the habits and life-histories 
of the various small beetles which occur in stored 
wheat and the damage which is due to their activi- 
ties, but I was gradually led on to take a wider view 
of the subject and to make a number of experiments 
with regard to methods of preventing their ravages. 
These led me to consider the problem of the storage 
of cereals as a whole. 

It soon became evident that I had undertaken 
more than I could carry out single-handed, especially 
as the work had to be done in the intervals of my 
ordinary professorial duties. Some of the problems 



110 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

involved were also of a chemical nature, quite 
beyond the limits of my own capacity, and it became 
necessary to secure the services of a properly trained 
chemist. The generosity of the Koyal Society 
enabled me to do this, and I was fortunate enough 
to find in my colleague, Mr. H. D. Elkington, the 
right man for the purpose. I may say at once that 
much of what I am able to tell you to-night is the 
result of Mr. Elkington's enthusiastic co-operation. 

The dangers to which stored cereals are liable 
may conveniently be classified under four heads, 
(1) the attacks of rats and mice, (2) the attacks of 
insects and mites, (3) the attacks of moulds and 
bacteria' and (4) the process known to the trade as 
" Heating." 

As to the rats and mice I need say nothing. The 
danger from this source is completely eliminated 
by any rational method of storage, and though the 
loss in this connection is undoubtedly still enormous, 
its prevention would seem to be a matter for legisla- 
tion rather than for scientific investigation. 

Of the insects, on the other hand, I might say 
much, for there are many different kinds involved 
in the problem and on each one a volume might be 
written. The best-known and the most destructive, 
at any rate in temperate climates, are the grain 
weevils, Calandra oryzae and Calandra granaria, but 
in India two other beetles, Rhizopertha dominica 
and Trogoderma khapra, are also very serious pests. 



GRAIN CONSERVATION 111 

Then there are the larvae of various moths, such as 
Ephestia elutella, and a number of secondary pests 
mostly small beetles which do little or no 
damage to sound grain, but feed upon the debris 
resulting from the ravages of other species. 

The ignorance of those engaged in the grain trade 
with regard to these insects is, perhaps, in the present 
state of national education, not altogether surprising. 
Few, if any, of those whom we have met seemed to 
know that there is more than one kind of weevil, 
or that a weevil differs from the other kinds of 
beetles, or that the "maggots " or larvae found in 
the grain have anything to do with the moths which 
are found flying about the granary. Indeed it was 
seriously suggested to us in one warehouse which we 
visited that the moth larvae, which were crawling 
over the heaps of grain in countless thousands, might 
be derived from mites ! The very small size of all 
these insects has no doubt a good deal to do with 
the fact that so little is known about them by those 
who have the greatest opportunities for observing 
them. A little knowledge 6f their habits and life- 
histories intensely interesting in itself would, 
however, be a valuable asset in the hands of those 
whose duty it is to inspect and supervise warehouses 
where vast quantities of provisions of all kinds may 
be stored. We have found, for example, that there 
is actually a widespread and strongly rooted pre- 
judice in favour of moth larvae, or at least of the 



112 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

web which they sometimes spin over the heaps of 
grain, it being asserted that the grain under such 
a web is always in good condition. However this 
may be, there can be no doubt, not only that the 
larvae actually do a certain amount of damage to 
the grain itself, but also that their presence in 
a warehouse must be a source of danger to other 
food products stored in the same or adjacent 
buildings. In the case which we investigated, where 
hundreds of thousands of " maggots " were crawling 
over the grain and the adjacent woodwork, we found 
that the moth of whiph they were the larvae, and 
which was also to be found in the granary in the 
adult state, was the notorious Ephestia elutella, 
which is known to infest almost any kind of food 
substance, from grain to chocolate. Here was a 
breeding-ground from which the insects might 
spread in thousands over a large area, with disas- 
trous consequences, and this danger was apparently 
quite unrecognised by those in charge. 

Unfortunately time does not permit of my saying 
much about the habits and life-histories of the 
various grain insects, but we may pause for a moment 
to consider their effect upon the grain. Let us 
confine our attention to the weevils. The amount 
of damage which these little creatures do is of 
course directly proportional to their numbers, and 
these depend upon their rate of multiplication. We 
have made more than 90 experiments to determine 



GRAIN CONSERVATION 113 

this rate under various conditions of temperature 
and moisture. Some of our results may interest 
you. 

A single pair of rice-weevils (Calandra oryzae), 
isolated on April 23rd, 1918, and kept in wheat in 
a moist incubator, at an average temperature of 
28 C. (82'5 F.), increased in 29 days to 6 live adults, 
in 48 days to 19, in 69 days to 113, in 97 days to 758. 
All loose weevils were then removed and in another 
fortnight 653 more live adults were found amongst 
the grain. Thus in 111 days almost exactly 16 
weeks a single pair of these insects had multiplied 
about 700-fold. 

At ordinary laboratory temperatures, with the 
room only slightly heated in cold weather during 
the daytime,^ and not at all on Sundays, the rate of 
multiplication is of course much slower, and indeed 
multiplication only takes place during the warm 
months. For example, 1 00 rice-weevils were placed 
in 130 grammes of wheat on April 5th, 1918. On 
May 14th only 28 live adults were left, on June llth 
only 20, on July 1st, 20 ; but by August 13th the 
number had increased to 382, and by October 5th 
to 749. 

The most satisfactory experiments made with 
the other species of grain- weevil (Calandra granar id) 
at room temperature gave a higher rate of multipli- 
cation, but again only during the warmer months. 

One hundred adult weevils were placed in 500 

I 



114 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

grammes of wheat on April 10th, 1918. By July 
15th the number of live adults had dropped to 80, 1 
but by September 3rd it had increased to 2203. 
This species is generally believed to be indigenous 
in countries with cooler climates than those of which 
the rice-weevil is a native, and is accordingly more 
likely to become troublesome in Great Britain under 
ordinary temperature conditions. 

It is quite clear from these results that in our 
own climate multiplication only takes place in the 
warmer months of the year except in places that 
are artificially heated hence one of the reasons for 
keeping grain-stores as cool as possible. In warm 
weather, however, it is obvious that the rapid mul- 
tiplication of the weevils is a source of great danger, 
and the danger is naturally greater in climates like 
those of India, Australia, and South America. 

There can be no doubt that a certain amount 
of moisture in the wheat say from 8 to 16 per cent 
or thereabouts is also necessary for the mainte- 
nance of the weevils in a nourishing condition, and 
much stress has very properly been laid upon the 
importance of keeping the wheat as dry as possible 
in order to prevent " weevilling." Unfortunately, 
however, wheat is a very hygroscopic substance 
and readily absorbs moisture in damp weather, so 
that the problem of keeping it dry is not altogether 
a simple one, while, on the other hand, the weevils 

1 Possibly 83, as only 17 were found dead. 



GRAIN CONSERVATION 115 

may remain alive for a long time in dry wheat, 
ready to resume a more vigorous existence when the 
necessary moisture is forthcoming. 

The effect upon the wheat of a large number of 
weevils living under favourable conditions is very 
remarkable. The adult females lay their eggs in 
small punctures in the grains. The young larvae, 
hatching from these eggs, bore their way deeply into 
the grains, and there undergo their complete develop- 
ment, gradually hollowing out the grain as they 
feed, and finally eating their way out as perfect 
insects. The adult lives for a long time and feeds 
voraciously, and the combined efforts of adults and 
larvae rapidly destroy the grain. In addition to 
this direct effect there is an indirect one, which, 
at any rate in a moist atmosphere, may be of great 
importance in completing the work of destruction. 
As they feed, the weevils produce large quantities 
of excrement, and not only does this foul the grain 
but it appears to attract large quantities of moisture 
and forms a substratum for the growth of moulds 
and doubtless also of bacteria by the action of 
which the remainder of the grain is presently con- 
verted into a black, decaying mass, resembling old 
stable manure and giving off large quantities of 
ammonia. In spite of the presence of the ammonia 
weevils continue to live in the upper and less affected 
layers of such a sample for a very long time. 

You may perhaps say : " It's all very well to 



116 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

breed vast numbers of weevils in the laboratory, 
under exceptionally favourable conditions, but do 
these insects ever occur in sufficient numbers under 
normal conditions of storage to render the problem 
of their extermination really serious ? " This very 
legitimate question can, without the slightest hesita- 
tion, be answered in the affirmative. My colleagues 
and I have examined a great many samples of 
wheat from various parts of the world and found 
a very large proportion of them to be " weevilled " 
to a greater or less extent. We have had a parcel 
of badly infected wheat delivered at my laboratory 
which dripped weevils as it was carried about 
this, however, had been specially selected for us. 
On the other hand, many samples which are believed 
to be free from weevils show on incubation that they 
are really infected and weevils emerge from the 
grains in the course of a few days or weeks. This is 
a fruitful source of error which has to be guarded 
against in experimental work. Weevilling often 
becomes greatly intensified in the course of a sea 
voyage, owing to the warmth and moisture encoun- 
tered in the tropics, and the cargo on reaching this 
country is sometimes in a deplorable condition. 

It is no easy matter to estimate the actual amount 
of damage due to weevilling. Noel Paton, however, 
in his Indian Wheat and Grain Elevators, published 
in 1913, tells us that " one of the largest shippers 
of Indian wheat has said that the average wastage 



GRAIN CONSERVATION 117 

from this cause is about 2J per cent." This may 
be an underestimate, for in the United States of 
America, with their cooler climate, the damage to 
the cereal crops while in storage has been estimated 
at 5 per cent. In any case it is serious enough, 
and must probably amount to many millions 
of pounds sterling per annum throughout the 
world. 

We come next to our third category of danger 
to which stored grain is liable, viz. the action of 
moulds and bacteria. Under normal conditions and 
with reasonable care in keeping the wheat dry, how- 
ever, there appears to be little to be feared from 
this cause, and in any case I have no data to put 
before you. I mention it merely because I shall 
be able to show later on that it may be avoided by 
the same means as those to be recommended in 
the case of more serious dangers. 

It remains to speak of the danger that arises 
from heating, which appears to be a more serious 
matter in the eyes of the grain trade even than the 
weevilling problem. It is a danger which arises 
when large quantities of grain are stored with too 
high a percentage of moisture, and it is of course 
by no means confined to wheat. It is therefore 
necessary to take the temperature of stored grain 
at frequent intervals and to turn over the heap as 
soon as it becomes dangerously warm. 

A very valuable paper on the subject has recently 



118 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

been published in the American Journal of Agricul- 
tural Research * by Messrs . Bailey and Gur j ar . These 
authorities accept the view " that the phenomenon 
known as respiration is responsible for the heat 
energy released in a mass of damp grain." Un- 
fortunately botanists use the term respiration in 
an extraordinarily wide sense, including thereunder 
all the complex and varied processes of destructive 
metabolism, so that it becomes impossible to dis- 
tinguish between respiration and fermentation. 
Messrs. Bailey and Gur jar, however, clearly exclude 
microbic fermentation as a cause of the heating of 
grain. In the same paper they tell us that " sponta- 
neous heating in damp grain is occasioned by the 
biological oxidation of dextrose and similar sugars, 
chiefly in the germ or embryo of the kernel." The 
term " biological oxidation " is perhaps less objec- 
tionable than " respiration," though it may well 
be questioned whether biological oxidation can be 
distinguished from chemical oxidation. 

Apart from theoretical considerations, however, 
the paper referred to contains much valuable in- 
formation as to the conditions under which " heat- 
ing ' ' takes place. The most important determining 
factor is obviously moisture. The increase in the 
rate of the so-called "respiration" is slow and 
gradual until the moisture content of the grain 
reaches some 13-1 4- 5 per cent, after which it becomes 

1 VoL xii. No. 11, Washington, March 18, 1918. 



GRAIN CONSERVATION 119 

markedly accelerated. Increasing temperature also 
causes increase in the rate of "respiration" until 
55 C. (131 F.) is reached. Accumulation of carbon 
dioxide decreases the rate of " respiration." " Ee- 
spiration " is also reduced in an oxygen-free atmo- 
sphere, the ratio to that occurring in a normal 
atmosphere being about 1-2-5. I need not remind 
you that the rise of temperature or heating of the 
grain depends upon the rate of " respiration," or, 
as I should prefer to put it, upon the rate at which 
destructive metabolism takes place. 

Their knowledge of the physiology of the organ- 
isms concerned, imperfect though it still is, has 
enabled scientific experts to suggest various ways of 
combating the diseases to which stored grain is 
subject. Insect-infested grain can at least tem- 
porarily be cured by fumigation with poisonous 
gases of various kinds, such as carbon disulphide, 
hydrocyanic acid, and carbon dioxide. A better 
and safer method, now much used in America, 
depends upon the extraordinary susceptibility of 
grain insects to changes of temperature. Professor 
Chittenden pointed out more than twenty years ago 
that a temperature of from 125 to 140 F., continued 
for a few hours, is fatal to grain insects, while wheat 
can be subjected to a temperature of even 150 or 
more for a short time without destroying its germi- 
nating power. The heat may be applied by means 
of steam pipes, whereby the whole of the building 



120 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

in which the grain is stored may be raised to the 
required temperature, or badly infected grain may 
be put through special cleansing machinery and 
heat applied at the same time. I understand that 
the latter plan was very successfully employed by 
my colleague Professor Maxwell Lefroy, who was 
sent out to Australia by the Koyal Commission on 
Wheat Supplies to find out the best method of 
dealing with the enormous stocks of wheat accumu- 
lated there under most unfavourable conditions 
during the war. Apparently the time necessary 
to effect the destruction of the insects at a tempera- 
ture of 145 F. is very much less than used to be 
supposed, for Professor Lefroy is reported to have 
said, in a lecture delivered recently at the Royal 
Institution, that a temperature of 145 applied for 
three minutes killed anything. 

Apart altogether, however, from the actual loss 
due to the attack, all curative methods are both 
expensive and troublesome, and what is urgently 
required is some practical method of storage which 
shall render the grain absolutely safe from deteriora- 
tion for a large number of years to whatever cause 
such deterioration might be due. All theoretical 
considerations seem to point to air-tight storage 
in properly constructed granaries as the ideal plan. 
Moreover, this method, or a reasonably close ap- 
proximation thereto, has been very widely employed 
from time immemorial amongst primitive races 



GRAIN CONSERVATION 121 

of mankind I refer of course to the use of 
underground pits, constructed of earth, rock, or 
masonry. 

Unfortunately. I have not time to say as much 
upon this interesting topic as I should like to do, 
but I wish to put before you some facts with regard 
to the practice as it exists on the one hand in India 
and on the other in Malta. 

Thirty-one years ago Mr. E. C. Cotes published 
a memoir on the Wheat and Rice Weevils in India 
(1888), in which he brings together much valuable 
information collected from native sources. I select 
the following quotations from the evidence : 
" Wheat stored so as to be practically air-tight is 
said to be free from the attack of weevils. The 
method which seems to have been widely adopted 
in India is as follows : Holes are dug in the ground, 
or round buildings of mud are erected, the floor 
and walls in each case being lined with chaff or sand, 
and the grain covered with a layer of the same 
material, the whole being covered in with closely 
packed earth. Wheat so stored for three years has 
been found, on opening, to be quite sound." 

" Natives do not care and do not bother their 
heads about weevils, knowing that in their air- 
tight pits underground nothing will attack the 
grain." 

"The only method to prevent destruction of grain 
from the weevil is to make the granary air-tight." 



122 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

That this method, valuable as it doubtless is in 
careful hands, is not always carried out properly is 
clearly indicated by Mr. F. Noel Paton, Director- 
General of Commercial Intelligence in India. Writ- 
ing in 1913, in Indian Wheat and Grain Elevators, he 
says : " QuaHtiti.es of wheat are still stored in pits. 
These are lined with straw and chaff, and some- 
times, it is said, with a plaster compounded of mud 
and cow dung. The wheat is placed in them in 
bulk and is covered with straw, earth and thatch. 
Protracted storage in such pits results in damage 
more or less serious. This damage appears in the 
form of moulds and results in discoloration and bad 
smell. But there is evidence that the ravages of 
weevil are to some extent inhibited by the conditions 
set up. This is believed to be due to the generation 
of carbonic acid gas in the processes of decomposi- 
tion. It is well understood that it is dangerous 
to enter such pits when they are first opened ; and 
there is on record at least one authenticated case 
of a dealer being convicted of a rash and negligent 
act which occasioned the death of several labourers 
sent into a pit prematurely." 

The same principle of storage is carried out 
in a much more thorough and efficient manner in 
Malta, where, as Professor Zammitt tells us in a 
letter addressed to Professor Newstead, one of my 
colleagues on the Grain Pests Committee, the gran- 
aries have the form of deep pits made in the ground, 



GRAIN CONSERVATION 123 

the wall of the pit being composed of rock or masonry 
and the interior lined with dry straw. " The air 
within the granary becomes very heavily charged 
with carbon dioxide, as a result of the ordinary 
process of respiration by the grain, and before re- 
moving the grain the granary must be thoroughly 
ventilated by an air-pump or fan. The carbon 
dioxide acts very effectively as an insecticide, so 
that in a properly constructed granary, water-tight 
and air-tight, no insect can develop." " Grain thus 
stored can be kept indefinitely, the only evil effect 
of long storage being an impairment of the germi- 
nating power, which becomes torpid and irregular, 
if the grain is stored for more than two years. At 
the same time the bread-making quality of the 
grain is improved, i.e. the bread-paste (dough) is 
more readily affected by yeast. Fermentation can- 
not take place unless the grain is heavily charged 
with moisture, from exposure to rain, or infiltration 
of sea- water on board ship." 

It is somewhat remarkable that, with so much 
evidence in its favour, the method of air-tight storage 
should never yet have been scientifically elaborated 
and put into practice on a large scale in any of the 
great grain-producing or grain-consuming countries 
of the world. It is to be feared that scientific men 
themselves are partly to blame for this state of 
affairs. On the one hand a most curious belief has 



124 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

long been current in entomological circles with 
regard to the ability of weevils to withstand almost 
any amount of absence of ventilation, and, on the 
other hand, a very natural prejudice exists in the 
trade itself in favour of ventilation to prevent the 
grain from heating reasonable in so far as it recog- 
nises that ventilation serves to carry off heat and 
moisture, but leaving out of account other con- 
siderations of much greater moment. 

As to the alleged capacity of grain-insects to live 
and flourish, without ventilation the most precise 
statements have been furnished by one scientific 
writer. He tells us that " a non- ventilated atmo- 
sphere at about 80 F., charged with water vapour 
(no matter how poor in oxygen, and contaminated 
with carbonic acid gas), provides the most favour- 
able conditions for the life and reproduction of these 
weevils." Again: "Hence almost any accumulation 
of C0 2 in the atmosphere in which the weevils are 
living may be disregarded as a preventive agent " ; 
and, once more : "In the face of these and my other 
results it would be absurd to hold either that weevils 
require a free play of air, or even that free access to 
air, when possible, is favourable to their existence." 
In face of such statements as these, how could any 
one feel much confidence in recommending air-tight 
storage as a prevention of weevilling ? 

It was obviously necessary that the matter 
should be set at rest once for all by a series of 



GRAIN CONSERVATION 125 

scientifically accurate experiments which left no 
loophole for argument. Improbable as it might 
seem to a physiologist that any ordinary insect 
could exist for any considerable length of time in an 
atmosphere devoid or almost devoid of oxygen gas, 
yet the contrary belief with regard to these weevils 
was widely spread, and it-had to be got rid of. 

Fortunately this was a very simple matter. It is 
only necessary to seal up grain containing live in- 
sects in glass jars or cylinders with suitable stoppers, 
fixed- on with paraffin wax, in order to convince 
oneself that no insect can withstand such treatment. 
The experiment has been tried repeatedly in my 
laboratory, under various conditions of temperature 
and moisture and with nine different species of grain 
insects, including the two weevils. It was also 
tried with mites. Not only do all species succumb 
to such treatment sooner or later, but, unless a 
relatively very large air-space be present, they do 
so in a remarkably short time as soon, in fact, as 
nearly all the oxygen present has been replaced by 
carbon dioxide. The actual time required to effect 
this depends upon the proportion between the 
number of insects, the amount of grain and the 
volume of air present at the commencement of the 
experiment, as well as upon temperature and 
moisture. 

I may add that we have proved beyond question 
that the hermetical sealing of badly infected grain 



126 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

completely sterilises the wheat as regards insect life, 
so that the weevils must be killed by this treatment 
at all stages of their development. 

In Nos. 1 and 3 of the Reports of the Grain Pests 
(War) Committee of the Royal Society we have 
published details of twenty-seven different experi- 
ments of this kind, sufficient, we hope, to discredit 
for ever the remarkable physiological powers attri- 
buted to grain insects. 

It is worth while pausing for a few moments to 
consider the origin of so widespread a belief. People 
talk glibly about air-tight bottles and hermetically 
sealed tins, and will open such bottles or tins and 
show you live insects in them, but if you ask them 
how they know them to be air-tight or hermetically 
sealed you will probably either get no answer or 
be told that some inspecting authority has passed 
them as " intact," which seems to mean little 
more than that they have not been opened. We 
have been informed by an Army Depot officer that 
tins of army biscuits are described as " intact " 
even if they have split seams provided the lid has 
not been touched; and the assumption that "in- 
tact" and " hermetically sealed " mean one and the 
same thing is clearly responsible for the statement 
that the larva of the much-dreaded flour-moth 
Ephestia kuehniella works its ravages in hermetic- 
ally sealed tins of army biscuits. 

A few months ago the same officer brought me 



GKAIN CONSERVATION 127 

six one-pound tins of pearl barley, part of a lot which 
had been in store since 1914 and had recently been 
condemned for weevilling. They were beautifully 
made tins, soldered with great care, and certainly 
they looked as if there could hot be much wrong with 
them. One had already been opened, however, and 
there could be no mistake about the live weevils. 
The remaining five I plunged into hot water, and, 
much to my gratification, four of them bubbled at 
the seams, showing that the soldering was imperfect 
and they were not really air-tight. The fifth tin, 
however, appeared to be perfectly sound, and I 
need hardly say that it contained no live insects. 
It was quite evident that a weevily sample of barley 
had been sealed up and that weevils had been able 
to maintain themselves for four years in some of 
the tins in which the soldering had been imperfect. 
It must be remembered that an imperfectly closed 
vessel, such as a tin can, itself " respires," to use 
a much-abused word in another of its many senses, 
to some extent like a human being. Changes of 
temperature and pressure pump air in and out of 
any small opening, so that the oxygen supply in 
the interior is constantly being renewed. The same 
process is responsible for the appalling accumu- 
lation of dust that takes place in closed drawers in 
London. The incoming air is laden with dust 
particles which are deposited before the air is 
replaced by a fresh dust-laden supply. 



128 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

Thus it ii evident that a very minute aperture 
in a tin or other receptacle may be quite sufficient 
to maintain a number of insects in a healthy con- 
dition in the interior, and to give rise to the belief 
in their independence of ventilation. 

We have here, if I may venture to say so, an 
admirable illustration of the fundamental import- 
ance of scientific accuracy. You must not assume 
that a tin or other receptacle is hermetically sealed 
until you have ^proved it to be so, or you may be 
led to utterly erroneous conclusions. 

We may then take it as definitely established 
that insects cannot continue to live in air-tight 
receptacles, and from this point of view at any rate 
the storage of grain in air-tight granaries is fully 
justified on scientific grounds. I may also tell you 
that our experiments have shown that the growth 
of moulds is prevented in exactly the same way ; 
for if two jars of wheat are taken, each kept moist 
by a supply of water in an inner tube, and one be 
sealed and the other ventilated, both being kept in 
a warm incubator, the wheat in the ventilated jar 
will become mouldy in .the course of a few weeks 
while that in the sealed jar will not. 

We come next to the important question What 
is the effect of air-tight storage upon the phenomenon 
known as " heating " ? It might very naturally be 
supposed, from the care which has to be taken to 
prevent this process from taking place under existing 



GRAIN CONSERVATION 129 

conditions of storage by means of ample ventilation, 
that air - tight storage, unless the grain were 
thoroughly dry, might lead to disastrous results, 
and indeed this objection has actually been raised 
in opposition to our views. If, however, you have 
followed what has been said as to the nature of 
heating and how it .results from the processes of 
destructive metabolism which go on in damp grain 
the so-called " respiration " you can hardly fail 
to realise that the probabilities are that air-tight 
storage will prevent heating just as it prevents the 
attacks of insects and of moulds. For destructive 
metabolism implies combustion, for which a supply 
of oxygen gas is necessary, and, apart from the 
question of anaerobic fermentation, which ought 
certainly to be investigated, but which does not 
seem at all likely to lead to serious results, the 
amount of damage which is possible must be 
directly proportional to the amount of air sup- 
plied. We cannot, however, content ourselves with 
mere theory in a matter of such vital importance, 
and the first question that has to be answered 
definitely one way or the other is this Does grain, 
even when in a moist condition, undergo heating 
when hermetically sealed up or does it not ? 

Of course, in actual conditions of storage, heating 
only takes place in relatively large masses of grain, 
in which the heat produced can accumulate to the 
necessary extent. The same result may, however, 



130 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

be brought about in quite a small quantity if 
precautions be taken to prevent the heat from 
escaping. This can easily be effected by using a 
Dewar flask, or what is popularly known as a 
thermos flask, in which, as you know, the dissipation 
of the heat is reduced to a minimum by means of 
a surrounding vacuum. 

Two such flasks were each filled with the same 
sample of wheat moistened until it contained 20'7 
per cent of water. To assist the process of heating, 
these flasks were kept in a warm incubator, under 
exactly the same conditions save only that one 
was hermetically sealed while the other was merely 
plugged with cotton- wool, so as to allow of the access 
of air. Each flask was provided with a thermometer, 
the bulb of which was plunged in the wheat. 

On March 7th twenty-five days from the com- 
mencement of the experiment, the thermometer 
in the sealed flask still indicated only 28*1 C. 
(82*6 F.), just about the temperature of the incuba- 
tor, while that in the ventilated flask had risen 
to 49'4 C. (121 F.). In other words, while the 
wheat in the ventilated flask had heated so as to 
cause a rise of temperature of no less than 38'4 F., 
that in the sealed flask had not heated at all or 
at any rate not to any extent worth noticing here. 1 

That the moistened grain, as placed in the 

1 This experiment has since been repeated, the flasks being kept at 
room temperature, and similar results of a highly satisfactory character 
were obtained. 



GRAIN CONSERVATION 131 

thermos flasks, actually gave off large quantities 
of carbon dioxide when supplied with the necessary 
oxygen, was also proved by direct experiment, in 
which it was found that 50 grammes of the wheat 
gave off 121 milligrams of carbon dioxide in 24 
hours. We shall return to this question later on. 

Here, then, we have experimental proof that 
air-tight storage prevents heating even in grain 
containing a high percentage of moisture very 
considerably higher, of course, than would be per- 
missible in actual practice. 

To the physiologist, of course, there is nothing 
surprising in these results, he could have predicted 
them all from purely a priori considerations. All 
the damage to stored grain which we have been 
considering is the result of vital processes connected 
with the metabolism of the organisms concerned, 
and such vital processes cannot go on without a 
supply of oxygen gas. It is merely another form 
of the time-honoured experiment of burning a candle 
in a closed vessel; as soon as the oxygen is exhausted 
the candle goes out. It is somewhat surprising, 
however, to find that the secret has been known 
so long by certain peoples who can have had little 
if any idea of the scientific principles upon which 
their practice is founded. I have already referred 
to the native Indian method of storing grain 
in air-tight pits. Much more remarkable is the 
practice of certain Natal farmers, who store their 



132 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

maize in large tanks of corrugated iron, in which 
they burn candles until the air is exhausted before 
closing them up, for the express purpose of prevent- 
ing weevilling. 

Although it may seem safe to conclude, from the 
evidence which I have already placed before you, 
that the immunity of the grain in air-tight recep- 
tacles from damage of various kinds is due to the 
gradual replacement of the oxygen in the air by 
carbonic acid gas, it was thought desirable to obtain 
more exact information as to what really takes place 
under these conditions. For this purpose a large 
number of analyses of the gases present in the sealed 
flasks, and a number of experiments on the effects 
of various gases and mixtures of gases upon the 
live insects have been made in my laboratory by 
Mr. Elkington. These experiments are not yet 
concluded, but I may place before you some of 
the preliminary results. 

In the first place it is easy to demonstrate that 
ordinary clean commercial wheat, at ordinary tem- 
peratures, may give off considerable quantities of 
carbonic acid gas. For example two lots, each 
weighing 300 grammes, of English wheat, having 
a natural moisture content of 15 '9 per cent, were 
sealed up in two glass flasks for three months, the 
receptacles being nearly full. The experiment lasted 
from July 16th to October 17th, the flasks being 
kept at ordinary room temperature. At the close 



GRAIN CONSERVATION 133 

of the experiment it was found that in one flask 58*6 
milligrams of C0 2 had been formed, and in the other 
56 milligrams ; in the former the percentage of 
C0 2 in the air in the flask was found to be 18*13, 
and in the latter 17'82. 

The rate at which carbon dioxide is given off 
varies according to the amount of moisture present 
and according to the temperature, but in actual 
practice this could perhaps be regulated as desired. 
We have already had occasion to notice the large 
amount given off by wheat containing 20*7 per 
cent of water at about 31 C. (88 F.). 

If insects are present in the grain, the percentage 
of carbon dioxide rises more rapidly because the 
insects themselves produce very considerable quan- 
tities of this gas as a result of their own meta- 
bolism. Thus it was found that at room temperature 
(63-66 F.) 100 rice weevils (Calandra oryzae) gave 
off 23'5 milligrams of carbon dioxide in 48 hours, 
while 100 grain weevils (Calandra granaria) gave 
off 19'7 milligrams. 

Analyses have also been made of the gases present 
in the flasks in which weevils had been sealed up 
until they were killed. These experiments were 
made at 31 C. (88 F.), a temperature very favour- 
able to the weevils under ordinary conditions. One 
hundred rice weevils were sealed up for 72 hours, 
with enough killed grain for them to feed upon, the 
killed grain giving off only a negligible quantity of 



134 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

C0 2 . At the end of that time they were all quite 
dead and the gas present in the tube was found to 
contain 17*72 per cent of C0 2 and only 0*18 per cent 
of oxygen (in a duplicate experiment 17*97 per cent 
of C0 2 and 0*12 per cent of oxygen). In other 
words, very nearly all the oxygen present at the 
commencement of the experiment had been con- 
sumed and replaced by carbon dioxide. 

The question now arises Is the death of the 
insects due to some poisonous action of the carbon 
dioxide or merely to the deprivation of oxygen ? 
A number of experiments were made with a view 
to determining this point. In the first place it 
was found that weevils are soon killed by keeping 
them in an atmosphere of moist nitrogen, as pure 
as could be obtained. At the commencement of 
this experiment the atmosphere consisted of 98*13 
per cent of nitrogen and 1*87 per cent of oxygen, 
no carbon dioxide being present. After being sealed 
up for 46 hours at 31 C. (88 F.) the weevils were all 
dead and only 0*89 per cent of carbon dioxide 
had been produced. We may safely conclude in 
this case that it was the absence of oxygen which 
killed the weevils. 

On the other hand we have abundant evidence 
that carbon dioxide, if present in sufficient quantity, 
does exercise a poisonous effect. In pure moist 
carbon dioxide rice weevils are rendered completely 
motionless in three minutes, and it is interesting to 



GRAIN CONSERVATION 135 

note that they can remain in this condition for a 
very long time and yet recover when again supplied 
with fresh air. Ten weevils were sealed up in 
practically pure carbon dioxide (99*8 per cent) 
at room temperature for four days (96 hours). They 
were then removed to ordinary air and incubated 
at 31 C. (88 F.), when 7 of them slowly revived 
and were still alive at the end of 48 hours. 

At higher temperatures they cannot withstand 
the influence of the pure carbon dioxide for so long ; 
nevertheless, even when kept all the time at 31 C. 
(88 F.), in one experiment all revived completely 
after 26 hours' exposure and in another 9 out of 
10 revived after 42 hours. 

If now, instead of using pure carbon dioxide, 
we use carbon dioxide with a moderate admixture 
of oxygen, we get a very different result, and one 
which I think is of great interest and some novelty 
from the physiological point of view. Under these 
conditions the weevils again became completely 
motionless in a very few minutes, but they cannot 
remain so long under the influence of the gas without 
losing the power of revival. Thus, at 31 C. (88 F.) 
in a mixture of 78*58 per cent C0 2 and 21*41 per 
cent 0, after only 21 hours there were no revivals. 
At the close of the experiment there was still 20*61 
per cent of oxygen present, which again suggests 
that death was due to poisoning by carbon dioxide, 
certainly not to deprivation of oxygen. 



136 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

Much lower percentages of carbon dioxide, how- 
ever, are sufficient to kill the weevils even in the 
presence of plenty of oxygen. For example, let 
me quote one of a series of experiments conducted 
at 31 C. (88 F.). Ten rice weevils were sealed 
up in an artificial atmosphere containing 56*42 per 
cent of nitrogen, 20'36 per cent of oxygen and 
23'22 per cent of carbon dioxide. The weevils 
were all motionless in 43 hours. After 91 hours 
the flask was opened and the gas in it was found to 
consist of 56'30 per cent of nitrogen, 19'09 per 
cent of oxygen and 24'61 per cent of carbon dioxide. 
Hardly any of the oxygen had been used up, but 
all the weevils were dead beyond the possibility 
of revival. 

These experiments serve to show that pure carbon 
dioxide gas is actually less fatal than carbon dioxide 
with a moderate admixture of oxygen. I think 
the explanation is probably that in pure carbon 
dioxide all metabolism is completely suspended, 
the machinery of life is stopped short, so that the 
carbon dioxide cannot exercise its lethal effects, 
while, if there is enough oxygen present to maintain 
a certain amount of metabolism though the insects 
remain apparently lifeless the poisonous action of 
the carbon dioxide takes place. 

I fear that I have wearied you too long with the 
dry details of experimental evidence, and will pass 
on at once to my concluding remarks. 



GRAIN CONSERVATION 137 

I hope we have demonstrated conclusively that 
the air-tight storage of grain is a perfectly rational 
method of treatment based upon a sound scientific 
foundation. It remains for the engineers and others 
to say how far it is practicable upon a large scale, 
but I may say that I have been assured on good 
authority that no serious difficulty would arise in 
the construction of air-tight stores or granaries. 

If this is the case, I think that this system of 
storage ought to be very seriously considered by 
the proper authorities whoever they may be. 

If the grain were stored in this way in the country 
of origin for a few months before shipment, it 
would be completely sterilised as regards insect life, 
and with reasonable precautions on board ship it 
could not become infected during the voyage. 
Air-tight storage on the voyage might be a more 
difficult problem ; its chief value would be to pre- 
vent the heating which takes place when the grain 
gets damp. If the grain were landed in this country 
in an insect-free condition there would be little risk 
of subsequent insect infection unless it were pro- 
posed to keep it for a long period, when air-tight 
storage might again be resorted to. 

No doubt air-tight storage would involve a large 
expenditure of capital, but considering the immense 
amount of damage which might be prevented, this 
expenditure would in all probability be abundantly 
justified. Another advantage of air-tight storage 



138 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

in the country of origin would be the regulation of 
shipments thereby rendered possible there would 
be no need for a rush to get the grain away as soon 
as possible after it was harvested. 

If it should be decided to store large reserves of 
wheat in case of war, the air-tight method certainly 
seems to be indicated both historically and scien- 
tifically as the safest and probably the most 
economical in the long run for there can be 
little doubt that if this method was properly 
carried out the wheat could be kept for many 
years with a minimum of inspection and 
attention. 

I have, however, heard it suggested that the 
proper policy for this country is to encourage the 
farmers to grow more wheat, and thus render our- 
selves more or less independent of overseas supplies 
and large reserves. It may be so, but there is 
always the risk of failure of the harvest, as well as 
of shortage of labour, due to war or other causes, and 
a sufficient reserve at any rate to equalise supplies 
would seem to be only a reasonable precaution. 
That, however, is hardly our business. All we can 
claim is to have demonstrated the value of air-tight 
storage as a means of preventing most if not all of 
the damage to which stored grain is at present liable. 

Experiments similar to ours ought, of course, 
to be carried out on a much larger scale than is 
possible in a university laboratory. I have no 



GRAIN CONSERVATION 139 

doubt of the result of such experiments if the 
proper conditions be observed, but I must once 
more insist upon the necessity of scientific accuracy 
in carrying them out. 

In the meantime it is satisfactory to be able to 
state that in Australia, where the weevil problem 
is now very serious, some of the investigators are 
working along our lines and the value of air-tight 
storage is beginning to be appreciated. We learn 
from the Journal of the Department of Agriculture 
of Victoria that a conference on the subject of the 
weevil pest was held in Melbourne in October last, 
under the presidency of Professor Orme Masson, 
F.R.S., Deputy Chairman of the Commonwealth 
Advisory Council of Science and Industry. Ex- 
periments in sealing up weevily wheat in jars 
had been made by Mr. SpafEord, evidently very 
similar to ours. Indeed, the Chairman called 
attention to the fact that the results as to 
the asphyxiation of weevils were in complete 
accord with those obtained by myself in 
England. 

As regards treatment of the wheat on a large 
scale very important results were obtained with a 
stack of 8500 bags of very weevily wheat, which was 
covered with a material called malthoid to make 
it as air-tight as possible, after which carbon dioxide 
gas was pumped in. The result was regarded as 
highly satisfactory, but of course it would have 



140 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

been more so had a properly constructed air-tight 
silo been available, in which the weevils could 
undoubtedly have been killed in the natural course 
of events, without the trouble and expense of 
preparing and pumping in artificial gas. 



PHYSICAL TRAINING AND THE 
OPEN-AIR LIFE 

BY 

M. S. PEMBKEY, M.A., M.D. 

LECTURER IN PHYSIOLOGY AT GUY'S HOSPITAL 



141 



PHYSICAL TRAINING AND THE 
OPEN-AIR LIFE 

MODERN civilisation has been maintained by a con- 
stant struggle against physiological principles. The 
results have been wonderful, but it cannot be said 
that they have produced satisfaction and content- 
ment among mankind. There are widespread un- 
rest and discontent, and the question arises whether 
guidance might not be obtained from physiology. 
May it not be wiser to accept the fundamental 
principles of life, which are the same for all classes, 
give up the endless struggle and adjust the con- 
ventions of civilisation to those principles ? A full 
discussion would involve the physiology of every- 
day life and would raise questions upon which men 
feel strongly, but in this lecture only the physical 
training of the body and its relation to an open- 
air life will be considered. 

Few would doubt that in the beginning man 
obtained his physical training in a similar manner 
to that which obtains among animals, and was 
obliged to spend a large part of his life in the open 
air. In suitable surroundings the body attained 

143 



144 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

physical fitness ; the training was part of life itself. 
The advances of civilisation, especially in locomo- 
tion and industry, have prevented in countless cases 
the development of physical fitness, or have brought 
about degeneration. This has been recognised, and 
attempts to counteract it are found in legislation 
dealing with industrial employment and schemes of 
infant welfare, boy-scouts, cadet corps, compulsory 
physical training in schools and conscription for 
military service. 

Atrophy from disuse is a fundamental principle 
of life, and any one, who has eyes to see, can find 
the -proofs. Let him contrast the feeble and clumsy 
flutter of a domesticated duck with the swift, strong 
and controlled flight of the wild duck ; compare 
the pot-bellied hutch-rabbit with rabbits of the 
same breed turned loose in the woods, the wild 
boar with the domestic pig, or the mountain sheep 
with the sheep which are confined to their pens. 
It matters not if objection be raised on the grounds 
of selective breeding. The young of such breeds 
show much of the primitive capacity of their 
ancestors and this capacity will result in physical 
fitness, if the opportunity and stimulus are supplied. 

Under natural conditions the development of 
physical fitness requires no special safeguards, the 
capacity is within the germs at the time of con- 
ception and it is as easy (if not easier) to under- 
stand a perfect and symmetrical growth as an 



PHYSICAL TRAINING 145 

abnormal one. The build of the body depends 
chiefly upon the characteristics transmitted by the 
ancestors and has been determined in great part 
even before birth. At the very beginning of exist- 
ence animals have a potential fitness for some 
special mode of life ; some will become swift 
runners, others divers and other flyers. In them 
no system of physical training has been handed 
down by tradition ; the opportunity for exercise is 
all that they require, and the result is a physical 
fitness which excites our admiration. Here at this 
early stage physiology comes into conflict with 
those keen reformers and educators, who will not see 
the problem as a whole. One-sided schemes may be 
excellent in their design, but they will not produce 
physical fitness. Ante -natal treatment, infant 
welfare, medical and dental inspection of school 
children, physical drill in schools and the like are 
not based upon broad physiological principles. Only 
the sick need the physician. Physical training is 
a question of physiology, not of medicine or surgery ; 
its aim is the healthy performance of all the 
functions of the body and the development of a 
resistance to the noxious factors of life. 

It will be well now to consider the natural pro- 
cesses of physical training from birth onwards. The 
healthy infant needs only the instinctive care that 
wild animals devote to their young. It does not 
require to be taught to live by an educated mother 



146 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

or nurse. It suckles and takes its food according 
to its needs, not, as the modern nurse thinks it 
should, according to the clock. It breathes through 
its nose because there is less effort required to keep 
the mouth closed than open, and when it suckles 
it must breathe through the nose. As the infant 
grows it learns to control the muscles of its limbs, 
it crawls and walks, and is not taught, notwith- 
standing the claims advanced by many a fond 
mother. The capacity is within itself in the same 
measure as in the young of other animals. Still 
later the child begins to play and thus trains not 
only its muscles and its senses, but all parts of the 
body. By exposure to the open air and changes 
of temperature it learns unconsciously to regulate 
its production of heat and acquires control over 
the vascularity of its skin. Its fondness for play- 
ing in the dirt and total disregard of every dogma 
about germs will increase gradually its resistance 
and raise its immunity. 

When boyhood is reached the games and sports 
become more complicated and strenuous, involve 
the training of all the senses and the co-ordinated 
working of all the systems of the body. Team- 
work produces discipline, healthy competition and 
endurance ; at the same time games give ample 
scope for individuality. There is the great advan- 
tage that the muscular work is done with pleasure 
and, in the vast majority of cases, with no ulterior 



PHYSICAL TRAINING 147 

motive. Games and sport involve an open-air life 
with exposure to all the influences of climate ; in 
summer the intense sunlight produces obvious 
chemical effects in the body, as shown by the sun- 
burnt skin ; in winter the cold increases muscular 
activity and nutrition ; every change of weather 
demands an adaptation of the body. There is little 
doubt that as a nation we owe much to our variable 
and uncertain climate and to our devotion to out- 
door games and our primitive open fires. 

From birth to boyhood there is a progressive 
training for physical fitness, and all that is needed 
is freedom in the open air ; for the healthy child, as 
is the case with other young animals, possesses an 
instinct to play, will evolve its own games and 
introduce and enforce the ideas of leadership, dis- 
cipline and efficiency. The games, moreover, are 
adjusted to the seasons and possess sufficient variety 
to prevent monotony or one-sided development. 

All the foregoing remarks are but the statement 
of common knowledge and contain nothing new. 
The athletic youth of the country have learnt by 
experience the truth, but that unfortunately has 
not guided those who legislate and govern. Sixty 
years ago Herbert Spencer in his essays " On 
Education " protested against the neglect of the 
teachings of physiology. The need of reform is as 
great, if not greater, now, for the advances in 
civilisation have imposed a heavier task upon man- 

L2 



148 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

kind. The Inter-departmental Committee on the 
Model Course of Physical Exercises reported to the 
Board of Education in favour of a system of drill 
which has no sound physiological basis and is deadly 
dull. As in the services, so in schools, drill is 
used as a punishment. Many schools have no play- 
ground, but it is proposed to supply them with a 
gymnasium, for it is stated that " in a climate such 
as ours exercises in the playground must necessarily 
be suspended for weeks together." Such is not the 
way to increase the physical fitness of children and 
their capacity to resist the vagaries of our climate : 
far better results would be obtained at less cost by 
providing ample playgrounds for games organised 
by the children and played during school hours. 
Drill indoors increases the risk of infection and 
lowers the resistance to disease ; the fatigue pro- 
duced by drill is out of proportion to the exercise 
involved ; there is an absence of pleasure, freedom 
and scope for individuality. 

Physical training is most necessary during the 
years of growth, but it is also essential for the adult, 
if he is to live a full and healthy life. Manual 
labour may in certain instances supply in itself 
all the conditions necessary for the maintenance of 
physical fitness. Such is the case in the oldest of 
the industries, agriculture. The farm labourer has 
most varied work in the open air at all seasons of 
the year and is not subjected to continuous hard 



PHYSICAL TRAINING 149 

work ; the pace is not determined by machinery, 
but by the weather and the condition of the soil 
and crops. It is one of the most healthy occupa- 
tions and, although the low wages have not attracted 
the best types of manhood, a good standard of 
physique has been maintained, and unrest and strikes 
are not generally associated with work on the land. 
Coal miners belong to a modern industry ; they are 
as a class very healthy, brave and efficient men ; 
they do not work in the open air, and have strenuous 
and monotonous labour in constrained positions, 
but they have compensated for these drawbacks by 
insisting on shorter hours of labour and higher pay ; 
their strikes have been the expression of their 
physiological needs, a high standard of food and 
recreation in games and sport in the open air. 

The healthy man is not injured by hard muscular 
work, when he himself sets the pace and is guided 
by his own sense of fatigue. The evil arises when 
a machine, which has no soul, sets the pace ; then 
the workers can escape degeneration only by in- 
sisting on shorter hours. In fact there appear to 
be legitimate grounds for discontent in much factory 
work, for the conditions pay little regard to physio- 
logical needs. A monotonous piece of mechanical 
work, such as feeding a machine day in and day 
out throughout the year, is bad ; it leads to work, 
which may be done reflexly and with little effort, 
but it is so one-sided that pleasure is absent, other 



150 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

parts of the body are not exercised adequately, and 
the only interest is to get the work over and earn 
the money. A change of work is as good as play, 
even if it may involve a greater muscular effort. 
Variety causes a new adjustment of bodily activity 
and tends towards physical fitness. Even sports 
and games become labour if they are followed con- 
tinually as occupations ; the sportsman will pay 
large sums for shooting and fishing rights, but the 
gamekeeper and the fisherman expect to be paid 
for their labour. Work in the open air has the 
advantage that the climate, at least in this country, 
will introduce some variety from day to day. 

Muscular work is a necessary condition of 
physical fitness ; those who are not forced to work 
for their living find salvation in games and sport. 
There is therefore no hardship if the manual labour 
is performed under the best conditions. The de- 
termination of this optimum is a question for 
physiological investigations, for machinery and 
factory life have introduced disturbing influences. 

If further evidence were needed of the beneficial 
effects of muscular exercise in the open air, it is 
only necessary to consider the sick rate of soldiers 
in barracks compared with that of the same men 
during manoeuvres ; the open-air treatment of 
diseases, especially phthisis ; the success of out- 
door schools for children ; the value of convalescent 
hospitals in the country and the great progress in 



PHYSICAL TRAINING 151 

the treatment of disease by remedial exercises in 
the open air. There are involved here far more 
factors than pure air ; the influences are exposure 
to changes of temperature, moisture and wind, 
which produce physiological responses in the organ- 
ism. The resistance is raised, and only thus can 
the ravages of epidemics be avoided. A mild 
attack of disease will lead to immunity. It is 
impossible, even if it were desirable, to abolish 
disease and death, but it is possible to increase 
greatly the resistance of a nation to the diseases 
which are common in the country. 

Thus far the subject of physical training and 
the open-air life has been considered from a general 
standpoint, and the arguments brought forward are 
such that the layman can estimate their worth. 
It will be convenient now to show the agreement 
of physiological knowledge with the experience of 
athletes, sportsmen and labourers. Such a com- 
parison will be obtained most readily by a con- 
sideration of the different systems of the body in 
relation to physical training and life in the open air. 

The Circulation of the Blood. The heart, the 
pump which drives the blood round the body, is 
one of the most important factors concerned in 
physical training. It pumps the blood through the 
lungs, and in this respect is an essential component 
of a " good wind," for it is useless to ventilate the 
lungs if the blood does not circulate rapidly enough 



152 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

for the efficient removal of carbon dioxide and the 
necessary absorption of oxygen. Athletes and the 
trainers of racehorses and greyhounds have learnt 
from experience the correct way to train the heart. 
That organ is a muscle and must be trained by 
progressive work. Its rate of contraction varies in 
different healthy men ; it may be fifty or seventy 
beats per minute during rest. There is no uni- 
formity in rate, but in all men there is a response 
to exercise, an increase, it may be, to one hundred 
and sixty beats per minute. The man with the 
slow pulse at rest has a greater range before he 
reaches the speed-limit of the heart during severe 
muscular work. It has been found that many of 
the best athletes have a very slow pulse during rest, 
and the general effect of progressive muscular 
exercise is to produce a slow beat of the heart 
during rest and a more rapid return to this rate 
after strenuous exercise. A weak heart is not made 
stronger by the avoidance of muscular work; it 
should be exercised by slowly increasing the amount 
of work. 

Physiological knowledge agrees with sound ex- 
perience, for the latter is in reality the result of 
numerous physiological experiments ; but they are 
equally in conflict with the erroneous ideas of some 
authors of systems of physical training, who by 
drill movements aim at expanding or opening out 
the chest in order, as they say, to give the heart 



PHYSICAL TRAINING 153 

more room in which to work. A little knowledge 
of anatomy and physiology has led these authors 
astray ; they do not recognise that a vacuum 
cannot be produced in the chest and the ribs are 
moulded to the shape of the underlying organs. 

The circulation of the blood is not only necessary 
for the nutrition and purification of the body, but 
is also a means for regulating the temperature of 
the body by the exposure of more or less blood 
in the numerous small blood-vessels of the skin. 
Exercise and life in the open air train and increase 
the capacity for this adjustment. 

The Respiratory System interests every man, for 
he regards the first breath at birth as a proof of 
life and the last breath as evidence of death. It 
is only natural, therefore, that it should have re- 
ceived the special attention of authors of systems 
of physical culture. They argue that special breath- 
ing exercises are necessary to make the lungs more 
efficient in their work of absorbing the life-giving 
oxygen and discharging the poisonous gas, carbon 
dioxide. Such breathing exercises, notwithstand- 
ing the fact that they have been approved by the 
Board of Education, are absurd in theory and 
useless or even dangerous in practice. The body 
is a living organism, not a blast furnace ; it does 
not take up more oxygen than it requires, how- 
ever much the lungs are ventilated, and if too 
much carbon dioxide be removed the subject 



154 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

becomes giddy and stops breathing. Another result 
of this exercise, performed in a school-room, is 
that the spray of the breath containing any in- 
fectious germs, which may be present in the throats 
of some members of the class, is spread broadcast 
and is inspired by others. It is no wonder that 
compulsory education and breathing exercises have 
coincided with numerous epidemics among school 
children. 

Healthy children do not require teaching how to 
breathe ; they are trained unconsciously by their 
running in the open air. Athletes and the trainers 
of racehorses have learnt by experience the correct 
way to train the lungs. By progressive muscular 
exercise the respiratory system is stimulated in the 
natural manner ; the activity of the muscles during 
running produces a great output of carbon dioxide 
and uses up much oxygen, the nervous system 
responds to the changes in the composition of the 
blood, and the respiratory muscles contract more 
frequently and forcibly. A further advantage is 
that the heart is stimulated and trained at the 
same time. 

Gymnastic exercises have been devised for the 
purpose of expanding the chest. The result may 
be seen in soldiers, who tend to fix their chests in 
a partly distended condition. The increased girth 
of the chest produced in this way is often only 
apparent, and is due in some cases to a special 



PHYSICAL TRAINING 155 

development of the muscles of the chest and in 
others to a forcible displacement of the stomach 
upwards to the chest. A big chest is no proof of 
a " good wind," although it is true that healthy 
men who have led an active life in the open air 
possess well-developed chests. " Wind " depends 
upon the capacity of the heart and lungs to accom- 
modate themselves to the demands made upon them 
by muscular work. 

There is another objection to breathing exercises. 
The authors of systems do not agree in their teach- 
ings ; some urge thoracic, others abdominal breath- 
ing. This lack of agreement would be expected, 
for the natural types of breathing vary not only in 
different individuals, but even in the same indi- 
viduals according to the conditions involved during 
rest and various kinds of work. In exercises de- 
manding especially the use of the arms the upper 
portion of the thorax must give a fixed point of 
purchase for the muscles, if efficiency is to be ob- 
tained. Women with little muscular development 
show very definite respiratory movements in the 
upper part of the thorax ; this is due, no doubt, 
partly to the constriction of the abdomen by corsets, 
but in part only, for directly they perform much 
hard work with their arms, abdominal breathing 
is increased and thoracic diminished. Muscular 
exercise or work abolishes tight lacing in women, 
and the converse is equally true. 



156 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

The Muscular System cannot be trained properly 
by gymnastic exercises devised on anatomical 
grounds to produce the development of each 
muscle. Agility and capacity to perform move- 
ments smartly cannot be obtained by developing 
big muscles by special bends or exercises with 
dumb-bells or heavy weights ; the body may be- 
come " muscle-bound." If a boy wishes to become 
a runner he must practise running; if he will 
become a good oarsman he must row ; if he must 
perform any given work efficiently he must learn 
by doing it. Practice alone makes perfect, pro- 
vided always that there is within the man the 
latent but special capacity necessary for excellence. 
The diversity and graduation of the muscular exer- 
cise involved in the numerous forms of outdoor 
sports render them suitable for all men, young and 
old, strong and weak. 

The Nervous System is trained by games and 
sports in a far more efficient manner than by drills 
and gymnastic exercises. The muscles in response 
to nervous impulses contract in ordered groupings 
for a definite purpose, the contraction of some 
being accompanied by the relaxation of others. To 
facilitate the muscular work the nervous system 
co-ordinates the respiration, the heart and the 
glands of the body. At the same time that there 
is an outflow of nervous impulses there is also an 
inflow from the various sense organs ; the eye, the 



PHYSICAL TRAINING 157 

ear, the muscular sense, the senses of temperature, 
pressure, touch and equilibrium are trained by the 
work. The relaxation afforded by games and sport, 
or even by a change of work, is the natural safe- 
guard against the nervous breakdown which is too 
common among civilised men and women, who 
become slaves to their work and cultivate their 
ambition until it becomes an obsession and a vice. 
The best method of inducing healthy sleep and 
restoration is muscular fatigue of moderate degree ; 
muscular exercise or work cannot be performed 
without nervous activity, but severe mental work is 
often unaccompanied by muscular activity sufficient 
to produce those complex chemical changes which 
accompany healthy fatigue. 

The Digestive System in the healthy man must 
respond to muscular activity, for the work per- 
formed is at the expense of the energy supplied by 
the food. Experience has always shown that men 
and horses feed best when they are well worked, 
and work best when they are well fed. Exposure 
to cold has a similar stimulating effect, for muscular 
tone and activity are increased in order to produce 
more heat for the maintenance of the temperature 
of the body. The man who takes sufficient exercise 
daily runs no risk of becoming corpulent or over- 
fed when he eats as much as he desires, and a 
sturdy growth of children is not to be obtained by 
the intelligent selection of the quality or quantity 



158 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 

of their diet, but by the natural process of muscular 
activity in the open air, the appetite with its likes 
and dislikes acting as the guide in questions of 
food. 

The Cutaneous System plays an important part 
during muscular work, for the secretion of sweat 
and the flushing of the skin with blood prevent 
any abnormal rise in the temperature of the body. 
The skin is moreover the largest sensory area of 
the body, and exercise in the open air exposes it to 
heat and cold. In such a manner accommodation 
to changes of temperature is developed. This is 
called the " hardening process," and possesses a 
sound basis. Some of the beneficial effects of sun- 
light are known, but much remains to be discovered. 

There is no time for a more detailed consideration 
of the effects of physical training and the open-air 
life. There are, however, a few points which must 
be mentioned. The living body is constantly com- 
pared with a machine, and the effects of work are 
considered from that point of view. It is forgotten 
that the body is more wonderfully and perfectly 
made than any machine. It possesses the power 
of self -adjustment and repair ; with use it grows 
and becomes stronger and at the same time more 
economical in its working. It cleanses itself and is 
self-guided to supply the energy requisite for its 
work and the rest necessary for its restoration. It 
has a range of adaptation to different kinds of 



PHYSICAL TRAINING 159 

work and a duration of life far greater than any 
machine ; long before it has reached its maximum 
of efficiency it can reproduce its kind. 

In conclusion it may be stated without any 
doubt that the true method of physical training is 
muscular exercise in the form of games, sport or 
work in the open air, for this is the one based upon 
biological principles. On these lines it is possible 
to improve greatly the health of the nation. It is 
cheaper in the long run to raise healthy than un- 
healthy stock, but it is not safe to argue that the 
latter should be " scrapped," for civilisation is so 
complex in its demands that a man possessing a 
very poor physique but a special type of mental 
capacity may be more valuable to the State than 
many healthy men. 



INDEX 



Accessory food substances, see 

Vitamines 

Agricultural life, 148 
Air-tight storage of grain, 120 et seq. 
Alcohol, 7 
Antiscorbutics, 60 
Atrophy from disuse, 144 

Bacteria in grain, 117 

Beer and scurvy, 66 

Beri-beri, 11, 31, 39 

Blood pressure, 90 

Bread, 12 

Bread, white and brown, 45 

Breathing exercises, fallacy of, 153 

Butter, 13 

Calories, 10, 20 

Carbonic acid, action of on weevils, 

123 et seq. 
Cereal reserves, conservation of, 

105 et seq. 
Chlorine, 4, 83 
Circulation, side-tracking of blood 

in, 91 

Circulation and natural life, 151 
Cocoa butter, 17 
Cod-liver oil, 42 
Colloidal state, 93, 100 
Cooking and scurvy, 61 
Cutaneous system, Nature's 

method of regulating, 158 

Deficiency diseases, 16 
Dieting, principles of, 10, 19-24 
Digestive system and the open air, 

157 

Disease and physiology, 77 et seq. 
Drowning of lung, 84 

Endowment of research, 6 
Exercise, 152 



Fat-soluble A, 38 

Fat supply, 13 

Fatty acids, 13-15 

Food (War) Committee of Royal 

Society, 8 
Food control, 8 
Food-values, 10 

Games, 146 et seq. 

Gassing, 82 

German organisation, 18 

Glycerine, 13, 15 

Goitre, 96 

Grain, sources of damage to, 106 et 

seq. 

Grain Pests (War) Committee, 109 
Guanidin and tetany, 98 
Guinea pigs and scurvy, 56 
Gum in transfusion, 93 
Gymnastic exercises, 156 

" Heating " of stored cereals, 1 10, 

118, 128 

" Hermetically sealed " tins, 126 
House- building analogy, 36 
Human scurvy, 62 
Hygiene an outcome of physiology, 

3 

Interallied Food Commission, 9 
Knowledge, pursuit of, 101 

Lanoline, 17 

Lime and lemon juice, 67 

Margarine, 16 

Medical Research Committee, 6, 

89 
Milk and milk products in relation 

to scurvy, 69 
Milk legislation needed, 17 



161 



162 PHYSIOLOGY AND NATIONAL NEEDS 



Milling machinery, 31 

Miners, life of, 149 

Monkeys and other animals, scurvy 

in, 63 

Monotony, evils of, 149 
Mothers, diet of, 49 
Moulds in damaged grain, 117 

Nervous system, natural training 
of, 156 

Open-air life, 143 et seq. 
Open-air treatment, 150 
Oxygen deprivation in grain stor- 
age, 134 
Oxygen in gassing, 85 

Parathyroids, 97 
Pellagra, 44 
Phosgene, 83 
Physical drill, 145, 148 
Physical training, 143 et seq. 
Physiology, its usefulness in gene- 
ral, 3-5 

Physiology and disease, 77 et seq. 
Pigeons and neuritis, 40 
Prisons in Japan, 32 
Purified foods, 34 



Respiration, natural, 153 
" Respiration " of grains, 118 
Rice as food, 11, 30 
Rickets, 41, 48, 95 

Science and food, 27 

Science and war, 4 

Scurvy, 43, 53 et seq. 

Scurvy, experimental, 56 

Shock, 88 

Silos, air-tight, 140 

Sport and games, benefits of, 159 

Teeth and deficient diet, 42 
Tetany, 95 
Thyroid, 96 
Transfusion, 93 

Vegetable fats, 16 
Vitamines, 11, 16, 27 etseq. 
Vitamines, distribution of, 39, 58, 
59 

War and science, 4 
War bread, 12 
Water-soluble B, 38 
Weevils, 1 10 et seq. 
Wound shock, 88 



THE END 



Printed in Great Britain by R. & R. CLARK, LIMITED, Edinburgh. 



ANIMAL LITE AND HUMAN PEOGEESS. Edited by 
Prof. ARTHUR DENDY, D.Sc., F.R.S. 10s. 6d. net 

"This volume is the outcome of a series of Lectures organised "by Prof. 
Dendy at King's College, London. . . . The College and the Editor are 
to he congratulated on their courage and public spirit, and on having 
made the subject-matter accessible to all through the medium of this 
volume. " Nature. 

OUTLINES OF EVOLUTIONAEY BIOLOGY. By 

ARTHUR BENDY, D.Sc., F.K.S. Fully Illustrated. Second 
Edition, enlarged. Fourth Impression. 15s. net. 

THE PEOFESSION OF CHEMISTEY. By EICHARD B. 

PILCHER, Registrar and Secretary of the Institute of Chemistry 
of Great Britain and Ireland. Crown 8vo. 6s. 6d. net. 

In consequence of his position Mr. Pilcher has been able to 
accumulate information on both the educational training required 
and the prospects and conditions of practice of every kind of chemist. 
He is in an unrivalled position to advise and direct those who 
would enter a profession which is expanding steadily by reason of 
its essential importance to our industries. 

THE SUBCONSCIOUS. By JOSEPH JASTROW. A Study 
in Descriptive Psychology. Extra Crown 8vo. 10s. net. 

THE MECHANISM OF MENDELIAN HEEEDITY. By 

MORGAN, STURTEVANT, MULLER, and BRIDGES. Demy 8vo. 
Illustrated. 12s. 6d. net. 

"... deserves the most careful consideration from students of heredity 
... a book which treats of one of the most important and novel lines of 
biological research." Journal of Zoological Research. 

ECONOMIC ZOOLOGY AND ENTOMOLOGY. By 

VERNON L. KELLOGG and G. W. DOANE. Crown 8vo. 6s. 6d. net- 
In this elementary text-book the authors have produced an 
introduction both to general zoology as well as to economic zoology. 

A TEXT-BOOK OF GENERAL EMBEYOLOGY. By 
WILLIAM E. KELLICOTT. 10s. 6d. net. 

"... a most admirable and thoroughly justifiable addition to the 
books on embryology in the English language , . . does distinct credit 
to American scientific scholarship." British Medical Journal. 

OUTLINES OF CHOEDATE DEVELOPMENT. By 

WILLIAM E. KELLICOTT. 10s. 6d. net. 

"Lucid, succinct and attractive . . . most valuable to students of th 
fascinating subject with which it deals." Lancet. 



FROM CONSTABLE'S US J -Continued. 

HANDBOOK OF THE TECHNIQUE OF THE TEAT 
AND CAPILLARY GLASS TUBE. By Sir ALMROTH E. 
WRIGHT, M.D., F.R.S. 10s. 6d. net. 

ON PHARMACO - THERAPY AND PREVENTIVE 

INOCULATION. Applied to Pneumonia in the African 
Native. By Sir ALMROTH E. WRIGHT, M.D., F.R.S. 4s.6d.net. 

LESSONS IN ELEMENTARY TROPICAL HYGIENE. 

By HENRY STRACHAN, C.M.G. Is. net. For the Use of 
Pupils in Tropical Schools. 

POST-MORTEMS AND MORBID ANATOMY. By 

THEODORE SHENNAN, M.D., F.R.C.S.E. Royal 8vo. Photo- 
graphs and Coloured Plates. 18s. net. 

"... the most complete and well-balanced text-book in English 
dealing with practical pathology." Nature. 

PUBLICATIONS OF THE UNIVERSITY PRESS, 
LIVERPOOL 

PRACTICAL STUDY OF MALARIA AND OTHER 
BLOOD PARASITES. By Ji E. STEPHENS, M.D., D.P.H., 
and S. R. CHRISTOPHERS, M.B., I. M.S. Third Edition. 
12s. 6d. net. 

FASCICULI MALAYENSES. Anthropological and Zoo- 
logical results of an Expedition to Perak and the Siamese 
Malay States, 1901-2, undertaken hy N. ANNANDALE and 
H. C. ROBINSON. In eight sections, 4to. Zoology, Part I., 
30s. net ; Part II., 20s. net (Appendix to Part II., Is. net) ; 
Part III., 30s. net ; Part IV., Is. net. Anthropology, Part I., 
15s. net ; Part II., 10s. net. Supplement, containing map 
and itinerary, 5s. net. 

A NEW DISCOVERY OF THE OLD ART OF TEACH- 
ING SCHOOL. By CHARLES HOOLE. Reproduced from a 
copy of the edition of 1660. Edited with introduction and 
fall bibliographical notes by E. T. CAMPAGNAC. Crown 8vo. 
7s. 6d. net. (1913.) 

LUDUS LITERARIUS (or the Grammar Schoole). By 
J. BRINSLEY. Edited with introduction and full biblio- 
graphical notes by E. T. CAMPAGNAC. Reproduced from a 
copy of the edition of 1627. Crown 8vo. 10s.6d.net. (1917.) 



cr 

to 



<t> 
rH 



rri 
! 

t 



6 



HI 

e 



, i 



Oj 
v 



University of Toronto 
Library 




Acme Library Card Pocket 

Under Pat. "Ref. Index File" 
Made by LIBRARY BUREAU 



