
SHEEP 
HUSBANDRY 



WM. A. BURl 




Class SFSTS" 



Book. 



•3? 



CiiF»iIGHT DEJPOSm- 



Practical Sneep Husbandry 



By 
Wm. A. Burns 



A COMPREHENSIVE TREATISE 

OF 

PRACTICAL METHODS FOR PRODUCING, FEEDING AND 

FATTENING SHEEP AND LAMBS FOR MARKET 



Price $1.00 



PUBLISHED BY 

WM. A. BURNS 

EXCHANGE BLDG., U. S. YDS. 

CHICAGO, ILL. 



"Let him learn a prudence of a higher strain. Let him 
learn that everything in Nature, even motes and feathers, go 
by law and not by luck, and that what he sows he reaps." 

— Emerson. 



s^. 



i^"* 

^i:. 



Copyright, 1919, by Wm. A. Burns 



Address All Correspondence to 

WM. A. BURNS 

Exchange Bldg. 

U. S. Yards, Chicago, 111. 



AUG 27 1919 



PREFACE 

WE have in this country today a few good breeders of sheep, and 
their work has been good; and although more of their kind are 
needed and better breeding needs to be encouraged, I find my attention 
drawn to the commercial and farm flock. 

During the early winter of 1918, I was introduced to one of Illinois' 
best cattle feeders. We talked sheep and the sheep business a little 
while, and as I walked away I heard him say to his commission man: 
"Why didn't you teach me the sheep business? I know that I would 
like sheep ; I need them on my farm and have always wanted to handle 
them, but I don't want to try raising or feeding them and fail at it, 
as so many of my neighbors have done." This statement, by a suc- 
cessful cattle feeder, set me to thinking of the great need for informa- 
tion and education of the right sort regarding sheep, and resulted in 
my decision to offer this little book on the subject. I wish it under- 
stood, however, that I am not offering this as a complete work on 
sheep or sheep feeding, and that my principal object is to point out to 
the honest seeker after some practical information, the kind of animal 
he is doing business with, and the methods necessary to insure success. 

I will try to show in this little volume how the farm flock can be 
kept at a profit; hov/ to care for, fatten and feed sheep and lambs for 
the market; what the market demands are; and, if possible, create a 
greater demand for mutton and lamb by offering some excellent recipes 
for preparing and serving this food. 

The product offered on the market, only too plainly shows lack of 
information on tlie part of the men who are trying to handle sheep. It 
has been well said that a chain is only as strong as its weakest link, 
and so while the producer has been schooled along certain lines, he has 
failed, because one especial fundamental has not been thoroughly pointed 
out to him, namely, the real nature of sheep. 

Nature has given to every living thing in the animal kingdom, some 
means of defense or protection. The sheep, in a prehistorical period, 
may have been fleet of foot, and with its horns was amply able to take 
good care of itself among the beasts of prey. The sheep of today is in 
reality a product of man's ingenuity. This animal has been, through 
domestication, schooled entirely away from his native state, and is a 
helpless thing but for man's protecting arm. The American farmer 
needs to know, when he turns his sheep out to rustle for themselves, 



PREFACE 

that they will be just as good as the man who cares for them, no better 
and no worse. 

We are just what education and breeding have made us, whether that 
education has been false or true. Both of the following examples tend 
to show when and how some of our most noble animals were originally 
created ; and what breeding and education will accomplish : 

One of the noblest animals which we possess is the Newfoundland 
dog, which was produced by crossing the Eskimo dog with a French 
Hound; likewise the English thoroughbred of today is the result of 
crossing an Arabian stallion with an ordinary English mare, although, 
of course, especially selected. 

The mistakes that have been made in the sheep business should not 
discourage any one desirous of going into it, and the fact that I bring 
some of these errors to the surface, should not alarm the reader; be- 
cause, as a certain great writer has well said, "Error discovered is two- 
thirds destroyed." 

Avthorities Consulted 

It will be my intention to keep all prejudice and biased opinions well 
out of my mind. I have consulted the best authorities, and wish to 
express my appreciation to Mr. F. R. Marshall of the Department of 
Animal Industry at Washington, and Prof. W. C. Coffey of the Uni- 
versity of Illinois, both of whom have furnished considerable data, 
some of the feeding formulas and considerable important information ; 
also to Mr. E. W. Baker, of the U. S. Bureau of Markets at Chicago, 
who has lent a very helping hand, and to the American Sheep Breeder 
and Wool Grower, U. S. Yards, Chicago, which has been very kind in 
furnishing and helping to arrange the various cuts and pictures through 
the book. 



CONTENTS 



Advantages of Agricultural Stations 

After Weaning 

Age 

Beginners and Their Responsibilities 

Better Fall Feeds Provided 

Bringing In the Flock At Night 

British Sheep Feeders 

Care of Ewe and Lambs . 

Castrating ..... 

Cattle Ranchman Offers Example 

Charged to the Wrong Account 

Cheviot ..... 

Chilled Lamb .... 

Cleaning and Fertilizing the Farm 

Commendable Efforts 

Comparison of Results 

Cotswold ..... 

Cutting Chute .... 

Delaine Merino .... 

Development of Different Breeds 

Development of Western Flock 

Dipping .... 

Docking .... 

Dorset Horn 

Dry Lot or Barn Feeding . 

Early Lambs 

English Mutton Breeds 

Experience of lov^a Farmer 

Fall Roughage 

Farm Flock Recommended. 

Feeders Adaptable to Feed 

Field to Dry Lot . 

Field Feeding 

Finishing Sheep vs. Cattle . 

Flock Must Receive Kind Treatment 

Good Advice 

Good Care and Big Gains 

Grain ; Its Importance 

Green vs. Matured Feeds 

Hampshire . 

History of Sheep 

Kinds to Buy 

Lambing 

Lamb Creep 

Lambing Pen 



CONTENTS 

Leicester 17 

Lincoln 17 

Managing the Farm Flock 25 

Managing the Flock Through the Summer 38 

Market 18 

Mating 28 

Merino 10 

Methods of Michigan Feeders 56 

More Facts Needed 22 

Most Important Periods ............ 28 

Must Give Value Received 20 

Number to Buy 27 

Number to Be Shipped In Car 51 

Oxford Dow^n 14 

Pregnancy ............... 29 

Producing Early Lambs 36 

Preparing for Lambing 31 

Preparing and Serving Mutton and Lamb for the Table . . . . . 67 

Problems of Reconstruction 20 

Progressive System 38 

Quality of Feeders 46 

Quality of Western Sheep . . .22 

Questions and Suggestions 63 

Rationing Sheep and Lambs ........... 58 

Rambouillet 12 

Ranchman ............... 19 

Rationing Simplified 21 

Romney Marsh .... ......... 17 

Root Crops ............... 63 

Roughages ............... 60 

Same Problems But Different Answ^ers . . . . . . . . .19 

Selection 27 

Shearing 36 

Shearing and Marketing Clipped Lambs 61 

Sheep Barn ............... 56 

Sheep Found Healthy 18 

Sheep: Its History and Breeding and Problems of Production .... 9 

Sheep and High Priced Land . 21 

Shelter and How to Feed 57 

Shropshire ............... 13 

Sorting for the Market 52 

Southdown 12 

Starting Sheep On Green Feed 50 

Stomach Worms . . . . . 38 

Suffolk 15 

Teaching Ewe to Own Lambs . 34 

Teaching Lambs to Eat ............ 35 

25 Reasons Why Sheep Should Be Kept On the Farm 41 

Utilizing Cheap Roughage ............ 29 

Value of Sheep Fertilizer ............ 57 

Weaning ............... 38 

When to Market 49 



CHAPTER I 



THE SHEEP; ITS HISTORY, BREEDING; AND PROBLEMS 

OF PRODUCTION 



History of Sheep 

i<QHEEP," Webster says, "are among the most useful animals that 
O the Creator has bestowed on man, as its wool constitutes a prin- 
cipal material of warm clothing, and its flesh is a great article of food. 
The sheep is remarkable for its harmless temper and its timidity. The 
varieties are numerous." 




They Have Turned This Once Wild and Weedy Pasture Into Blue Grass 

There is evidence that sheep were under domestication through east- 
ern countries in prehistoric times, for their bones have been found in 
caves and lake dwellings, where the people of those countries then lived. 
Rome developed a great deal of skill in handling her flocks, and sneep 
abounded in Spain prior to the Christian era. It is the first animal 
spoken of in the Bible, and we find the following, as well as many other 
records, showing that in early history sheep were domesticated, and that 
men were then using their flesh for food and their wool for clothing : 

Genesis 4 :2, "Abel was a keeper of sheep, but Cain was a tiller of 
the ground." 



10 Practical Sheep Husbandry 

Samuel 25:18, "Then Abigail took five sheep ready dressed," etc. 

Leviticus 13:47, "Whether it be a woolen garment or a linen gar- 
ment." 

Genesis 31:19, "and Laben went to shear his sheep." 

It is very interesting and striking to note the enormous number of 
sheep raised in Palestine in Biblical times. The following statement 
is made by Smith in his Bible dictionary: 

"Chardin says he saw a clan of Turcoman shepherds, whose flock 
consisted of 3,000,000 sheep and goats, besides 400,000 beasts of car- 
riage, as horses, asses and camels." 

Every bit of care and breeding that has been given the sheep in the 
past has tended to mould the sheep of today. The rat family really 
thrive and do better, looking after themselves, than they do with the 
best care man can give them, but sheep are just the opposite and re- 
quire attention. 

The sheep, since we have any record of it, has been under man's care, 
and so it is a law of their very nature to depend on man for their pro- 
tection. Looking back through their entire history, we find them folded 
at night, protected through the day, and feed, water, salt, etc., furnished 
them, and so today it is not the nature of sheep to look after themselves. 

It was the ancient custom for the shepherd to go before his flock, 
calling them to follow. 

John 10 :4, "And when he putteth forth his own sheep he goeth before 
them, and he calleth his own sheep by name and leadeth them out, and 
a stranger will they not follow, but will flee from him, for they know 
not the voice of strangers." 

Sheep respond quickly if called by their names, and a good shepherd 
can call one from a large flock and have it at his side at once by calling 
its name. However, they will not respond to a strange call, showing 
by this characteristic their educated love for their master. 

In early history the better classes considered sheep raising a very 
honorable occupation, and both sexes in some of the best families fol- 
lowed sheep husbandry. 

Exodus 2:16, "Now the priest of Midian had seven daughters, and 
they came and drew water to water their father's flocks, and the shep- 
herds came and drove them away, but Moses stood up and helped them." 

We also read that King David was a shepherd boy and many other 
noted men as well were shepherds. 

DEVELOPMENT OF THE DIFFERENT BREEDS 

The development of sheep, as they concern the people of today, 
began in England and Spain around the year 1000. At that time both 
countries were manifesting a great deal of interest in sheep develop- 
ment ; and by the year 1500 they were recognized as the great sheep 
breeding countries of the world. 

The Merino 

Spain at a very early period developed the Merino, a small sheep, 
quite free from wrinkles. Its wool was very fine and its fleece of wool 
very heavy. The early record of the Merino forms an interesting chap- 



Sheep; Its History, Breeding, Production 



11 



ter in 
central 



the history of sheep. Large flocks were moved from south to 
Spain each spring, and returned again in the fall, the total dis- 
tance of these annual journeys 
being over a thousand miles. The 
rugged strength and endurance of 
these sheep was undoubtedly most 
strongly developed at this time. 
The Merino is a gregarious animal 
and the improved American Mer- 
ino shows the result of this in- 
heritance in its ability to exist in 
great flocks and to thrive and sub- 
sist under a great variety of cli- 
matic and other varied conditions. 




tmM 



The Merino was introduced into 
this country as early as 1793, and 
An A Type Merino Ram slucc that tlmc great progress has 

been made in the development of both its fleece and form. It is a wool 
bearing sheep, and its carcass does not produce much mutton, nor is it 
of a good quality, but because of its hardihood and great wool bearing 
qualities, it is now in great demand to cross on the coarser wooled breeds. 
Such great breeders as Humphrey, Atwood, Hammond and many others 
have done much towards developing this novel sheep. 

There have always been several types of the Merino, but I will only 
attempt to give the reader a vague idea of the most distinct types now 
in use, and they are the A, B and C types. The American Merino is a 
short legged, deep bodied sheep, mature rams in full fleece weighing 
around 120 to 170 pounds, ewes 85 to 130 pounds. Their wool is very 
fine, and suitable for making the finest clothing. The staple is short, 
and a twelve month's growth only measures about one and one-half 
inches in length, but owing to the great mass of folds or wrinkles in 
the skin, it presents a big surface for growing wool. A mature ram in 
twelve months will grow a fleece 
weighing from 25 to 30 pounds, 
ewes 15 to 20 pounds. The rams 
as a rule have heavy, spiral turned 
horns, and the ewes are hornless. 

The Delaine Merino is a type de- 
veloped for both wool and mutton, 
and it is quite free from wrinkles. 
It is larger than the A type and 
mature rams weigh from 150 to 
200 pounds, ewes 100 to 150. Their 
wool is fine, and in twelve months 
it will reach a length of about three 
inches. Rams will shear 15 to 25 
pounds of unwashed wool, ewes 10 
to 15 pounds. The rams are both 
horned and hornless, but the ewes 
have no horns. They do not have many twins and are slow to mature, 
but are noted for their rugged constitution and longevity. They are 




B Type Delaine Merino Ram 



12 



Practical Sheep Husbandry 



also noted for the dark exterior surface of their wool, caused by a free 
flowing yolk that hardens on the surface and turns black. 



The Rambouillet is a still 
larger type than the Delaine or 
B type, and mature rams with a 
full fleece weigh around 225 to 
250 pounds, ewes 140 to 175. 
Their wool is rather coarse for 
the fine wool breeds, and in 
twelve months the fibre reaches 
a length of about three inches. 
Mature rams will shear about 15 
to 25 pounds of unwashed wool, 
ewes 10 to 18 pounds. The rams 
have large spiral turned horns. The ewes are hornless. The Rambouillet 
is very prohfic, robust and a good rustler. He is also a pretty good 
mutton sheep and is in favor with the big ranchman to breed on his 
grade flocks, to produce the rugged feeding lambs required at the market, 
as well as the desired mutton animal. 




The Rambouillet 



THE ENGLISH MUTTON BREEDS 

The English mutton breeds which were developed in small flocks 
are opposite to the Merino in several characteristics. Good shelter, 
feed and care are a big part of their inheritance, so in this country, if 
we hope to attain the success obtained by the British shepherd, we must 
closely follow and improve on their methods. The English shepherd has 
always firmly believed that a different kind of sheep was required for 
different localities, and so England saw fit to develop several types that 
were distinctly different in size, wool and mutton. 



The first really great English breeder to come on the stage was Rob- 
ert Bakewell (1725-1794) . Wool had declined in price to such an extent 
that raising sheep principally for the wool had become very unprofitable. 
Bakewell saw the need of a better mutton sheep, and set to work on a 
long, ungainly, coarse wooled, slow maturing sheep and crossed it with 
a smaller, finer wooled sheep. He was successful in developing an early 
maturing, compact, snugly built animal that was easy to fatten. He 
started a period of improvement in the breeding of sheep, such as the 
world had never seen. "Better mutton and better wool" was his slogan, 
and the breeders that followed him are to be commended highly in the 
success they attained. England today is the native home of nearly all of 
the modern mutton breeds, and flock-masters from all parts of the world 
still go there for their breeding stock. The following are the principal 
English mutton breeds that are found scattered more or less over this 
country. The American flock-master has done little or nothing towards 
improving the English mutton breeds. 



Sheep; Its History, Breeding, Production 



13 




The Southdown 



The Southdown 

The Southdown is one of the oldest of the Down breeds. It is a 
trim, compactly built, early maturing little animal, with a mouse brown 
colored face. Because of their early maturity and tendency to fatten 
and round into market condition early, they are especially recom- 
mended for early lambs. South- 
down rams are always in good de- 
mand to cross on all of the dif- 
ferent breeds. Mature rams in 
breeding condition weigh from 180 
to 220 pounds, ewes 130 to 160 
pounds. The quality of the mutton 
is par excellent. The two faults 
most severely criticised are their 
small size and light shearing ca- 
pacity. 

The Shropshire 

The Shropshire is similar to the 
Southdown in build, although larg- 
er and more stylish. The mature 
rams weigh from 200 to 250 lbs., 

ewes 150 to 180 lbs., average weight of fleece 8 to 10 lbs. No sheep is 

more prolific than the "Shrop." Their mutton is also excellent, but the 

lambs do not round out and fatten 

as early as the Southdown. The 

Shropshire is a very showy looking 

animal, and it is pretty safe to say 

that among the farmer flock-mas- 
ters there are none of the Down 

breeds more popular. They are a 

dark faced sheep, the wool coming 

well down over face and legs, and 

belly is also well covered. Their 

wool is dense and compact, and 

well adapted to turn the storms. 

The Hampshire 

The Hampshire is a bold, large 
sheep, with a long, deep symmetri- 
cal body, large bones and striking 
head features. Mature rams weigh 
250 to 300 pounds, ewes 180 to 220 
pounds. The head is large, face black with long, drooping ears. They 
mature very early, for a big sheep, and make rapid gains. Pure bred 
rams are always in demand from the commercial flock-master to cross 
with smaller breeds and grade flocks. They are prolific and thrive well 
if liberally fed. The ranchman is especially drawn to the Hampshire to 
cross on his grade Merino ewes, to produce large, early maturing lambs 
for the early summer and fall markets. They only shear about 8 pounds 
of unwashed wool. 




The Shropshire 



14 



Practical Sheep Husbandry 
The Cotswold 



The Cotswold is a large, coarse wooled sheep. The weight of fleece 
is from 10 to 14 pounds, mature rams weighing 275 to 400 pounds and 
even more, ewes 175 to 250 pounds. They are a very poor mutton sheep 
and hard to fatten. They are used mostly in this country for crossing 




The Hampshire 

with the finer wooled sheep. In certain districts through the western 
range country, where good shelter is furnished through the winter 

months, the Cotswold is in favor 
in crossing on the Merino and 
grade flocks. Unless the breeder 
knows well what he is about, he 
had better leave the Cotswold 
alone, because the Cotswold sheep 
or lambs do not sell well on the 
market. The central and eastern 
states also discriminate against 
the open or loose wool sheep and 
lambs, because their fleece does not 
turn water well, and they are not 
so well adapted to running in the 
corn or other fall feeds as the 
closer, more compactly fleeced ani- 
mal. 



The Oxford Down 




A Cotswold Ram 



The Oxford Down was original- 
ly a cross between the Hampshire 
and Cotswold. It is a large, upstanding animal with a brown face. 
Their wool is quite dense and compact, average fleece weighing from 
10 to 12 pounds. The Oxford Down is the best of the Down breeds 
for producing wool. They do well on the average farm feeds, 
and because of their superior wool quality, recommend themselves 
highly to the average farmer. The writer especially favors them 



Sheep; Its History, Breeding, Production 



15 



for crossing on smaller breeds, or 
for up-breeding in a grade flock. 
They produce good mutton, are 
prolific, good milkers and make ex- 
cellent mothers. Average weight 
of ram is 275 to 300 pounds, ewe 
200 to 250 pounds. 

The Suffolk 

The Suffolk is about the size of 
the Shropshire. It has a black 
face, with no wool on lace or legs, 
and very little on belly. It is a 
most excellent mutton sheep, but a 
small wool producer, average 
weight of fleece being 7 to 9 
pounds. It is very hardy, easy to fatten and very prolific. In England 




An Oxford Ram 




The Suffolk 

the Suffolk competes favorably with the other mutton breeds. Little is 
known of it in this country, but probably it would be to our advantage 
to know more about it. 

The Dorset Horn 

The Dorset Horn is really a Down breed, but most strikingly dif- 
ferent from most of them, because of its horns and white face. It is 
a very strong, rugged sheep, mature rams weighing 250 to 300 pounds, 
ewes 150 to 200 pounds. The wool is short and the average weight 
of the fleece is only about 7 pounds. The quality of the mutton is only 
fair and the carcass, especially in the matured sheep, is inclined to 
be a little coarse. They are especially famous for their habit of breeding 
early. They have a large number of twins, and it is possible to get 
two crops of lambs from one set of ewes in 12 months. Lambs grow 



16 



Practical Sheep Husbandry 



rapidly, and for early marketing are all right. They are also recom- 
mended to be crossed with the Southdown or Shrop. 




The Dorset Horn 



The Cheviot 




A Pair of Cheviots 



Sheep; Its History, Breeding, Production 



17 



The Cheviot is a small, neatly built animal, with no wool on head 
or legs, average weight of mature rams around 170 pounds, and ewes 
130 to 150 pounds. The Cheviot is a white faced sheep, ears small and 
erect, fleece weighing from 6 to 8 pounds. They are a very hardy 
sheep and distinctly a grazing breed, fattening quicker on grass than in 
the feed lot. The ewes are prolific, and while the lambs are very vig- 
orous and seldom chill and die when born out of doors, they do not 
mature and attain weight and finish quite as fast as some of the Down 
breeds. The Cheviots are used mostly in this country in crossing with 
the Oxford, Lincoln and other 
larger breeds, the cross producing 
the kind of mutton sheep or lamb 
most in demand on the American 
market. 



The Leicester 

The Leicester is a white faced 
sheep, with rather coarse wool, in- 
clined to be twisted and curly. Ma- 
ture rams weigh from 225 to 250 
pounds, ewes 175 to 200 pounds. 
The mutton is rather coarse, and 
they require a great deal of care 
and do not mature and fatten as 
rapidly as the Down breeds. They are used mostly for crossing 
the Merino, the cross producing the quality that is desirable in 
thrifty feeders and handy weight muttons. 




Leicester 



with 
good. 




The Lincoln 

The Lincoln is a large, robust 
appearing animal, with firm flesh, 
and from brisket to twist, carcass 
is thick and heavy, and in these 
respects it is not surpassed by any 
breed. The wool is very long and 
coarse, the staple often growing to 
a length of 12 inches in 12 months, 
and fleece weighing 12 to 15 
pounds. Mature rams weigh 
around 300 pounds, ewes about 250 
pounds. The breed, as pure bloods, 
is not in demand on the American 
mutton market, but is very valu- 
able in crossing with the Merino 
and other smaller fine wooled sheep. 



Lincoln 



The Romney Marsh 



The Romney Marsh is a large, rugged, rather low set sheep, noted 




18 Practical Sheep Husbandry 

for its hardy constitution and strength of bone. It belongs to the 
coarser wooled family, but the wool is finer and thicker than the Cots- 
wold or Lincoln. It is considered 
one of the best lowland sheep 
known, fattens well on pasture, 
and crosses well with the South- 
down, Hampshire or Merino. The 
Romney Marsh is gaining ground 
in the United States wherever it 
has been introduced, and will likely 
fill a greater place as it becomes 
more generally known in this 
country. 

Sheep Found Healthy 

I am convinced that the pres- 
ent rather unfavorable reputation 
of sheep in this country is the re- 
„ . suit of false education and lack of 

Romney Marsh i ■, ■, i- ji -n •^1 

knowledge regardmg them. It will 
be my idea to touch lightly on the physical condition of the sheep, al- 
though I will try to show by conclusive evidence that it is one of the 
most healthy animals known to man. I will deal largely with the facts 
necessary to the sheep producer to insure success. If I seem to tear down 
and condemn certain methods, I wish it understood that it is not in a 
spirit of condemnation, and that my intention will be to point out a 
better way. There is a mistaken idea that needs correcting, and this 
is the generally accepted theory that sheep are sickly, when in fact just 
the opposite is the truth. It may interest the reader to learn that the 
U. S. Government reports, under its system of inspection at the big 
packing plants, where every carcass of cattle, swine and sheep is 
inspected separately, the condemnation of sheep to be practically nil. 
Think of it, almost a one hundred per cent health verdict rendered by the 
medical fraternity! This knowledge forces us to give the lie to the 
theory that sheep are sickly. We have, then, a perfectly healthy animal 
to start with; this much must be admitted by all. The verdict then is: 
"Mr. Sheep, you are not guilty." The blame must then be placed where it 
belongs. This we will try to do, regardless of who it may hit. 

On the Market 

It is necessary that we go to the market to get first hand informa- 
tion regarding the sheep industry in this country. As a salesman on 
the Chicago market, I have been favored with rather an exceptional 
opportunity to observe the progress the mutton making industry has 
made throughout the country. During the past fall and winter (1918- 
1919), the central states feeders' and farmers' marketable product was 
deplorably bad ; in fact, during the past few years, there has sprung up 
a class of feeders and producers that has done the sheep business more 
harm than good. When the "more sheep, more wool" agitation started 



Sheep; Its History, Breeding, Production 19 

a few years ago, every Tom, Dick and Harry got busy writing articles 
on the gospel of more sheep and wool. They jumped on the fact that 
sheep are the best plant scavengers on earth and rode it to death. 

The Ranchman 

It is the custom and practise of the big ranchmen of Idaho, Mon- 
tana, Nevada, Utah, Washington and Wyoming to ship their product 
to market mostly during the months of July, August, September, 
October and November. Some of their sheep and lambs get quite fat 
on that very nutritious buffalo grass, found on the western range. 
There are some tame pasture lands, and a great deal of alfalfa is being 
grown, as well as roots for winter feeding. A big per cent of their 
shipments consist of sheep and lambs in what we term "feeder flesh." 
These must go out through the corn belt regions and be fattened and 
finished for market. During the years I have spent on this market, I 
have bought and sold many thousands of these sheep and lambs, and 
can report that as a whole, they were a strictly healthy lot. 

Same Problem But Different Answers 

I wish to give an example to show what good care and thoughtful 
management will do, in comparison with negligence and carelessness. 
A short time ago I purchased a band of very choice western breeding 
ewes, which were divided between two men, one bunch going to Indiana 
and the other to Illinois. The ewes cost $11.50 on the Chicago market. 
One of these men shipped his lambs to market from these ewes, and 
they sold for $17.80 a head. He also sold $5.00 worth of wool per head 
from his ewes, making a total of $22.80 per head to remunerate him for 
the care and feed given his flock for one year. This is only figuring one 
lamb to the ewe, or one hundred per cent, whereas good shepherds figure 
around one hundred and fifteen to one hundred and twenty-five per cent 
and even higher. The male lambs were castrated and all had been 
docked. They were a mighty fine looking lot. 

The other gentleman called me to his place during the early summer. 
I found his ewes, about four hundred, running in a cutover or brush 
pasture, with lambs at their sides. There was not enough feed in that 
pasture, if it had been stewed down, to have furnished nourishment for 
one ewe and a pair of lambs. The ewes were thin and weak, the lambs 
were also scrawny, and they did look like a sickly lot. I said to him: 
"You haven't any feed in this wild pasture that will produce milk on 
which to raise a lamb." He said he was feeding some silage, so I asked 
him concerning its quality and condition, and learned that it was mil- 
dewed and sour, therefore poisonous. He said that he had called the 
veterinarian and they had examined several of these sheep and lambs 
that had died, and they had found a condition in the stomach, which 
he called something, I have forgotten what. The veterinarians recom- 
mended that a vaccine be prepared and the entire flock vaccinated at 
once. I do not know whether this was done, but I remember saying to 
myself that if I was eating sour and poisonous food and was about 
starved, weak and sick, and carrying a heavy load, as were those ewes, 



20 Practical Sheep Husbandry 

and some one would say that such food was not the thing for me to eat, 
I would cut it out, and get some good, nutritious food, and let Nature 
do the rest. 

So I said to him : "Why shoot any more poison into them, when they 
are full of it now? Put them on a good, tame pasture, bring them to the 
house at night, give your ewes and lambs a little grain and they will 
come out of this in a hurry." But, suffice it to say, he did not take my 
advice, as he could see only the result before him, a diseased sheep, 
because the doctor had so informed him. He shipped them to market, 
I mean the ones he hadn't finished killing. The lambs weighed about 
thirty-five to forty pounds, were thin as rails, and sold at a low price. 
His ewes also brought ruinous prices, because they were thin and looked 
bad. 

These men started with the same kind of sheep, practically the same 
sheep, but one of them could only see the result and a way of doctoring 
it, while the other reasoned from cause to effect. The first man un- 
doubtedly said at the beginning: "I have a fine, healthy lot of ewes, 
and there is a right result or answer to this problem I have before 
me. If I obtain the right result I will want credit for it, and if I make 
a mistake and get the wrong answer, I will accept the blame also." He 
watched his sheep closely and the minute one of them started going 
wrong, he knew it and set to work to find the cause and to remove it. 
The results show that he was successful. If the cause is removed, 
"Doc Nature" will be right there on the job to attend to the health end 
of it, for that is one of the best things he does, if not interfered with 
by man. 

Must Give Value Received 

Every day, somewhere on the market, may be found the man, who 
though honest enough, has fooled himself, because he did not have 
uppermost in his mind the desire to give good value. His stuff is not 
good, and he knows it, and yet he hopes to receive just as good a price 
as the fellow who has produced the goods. The good feeder always has 
him beat. He gets a much bigger gain for the feed consumed, and 
of course gets paid for a great many more pounds. It has been noticed 
that the good feeder who is just as anxious for his stuff to dress out 
well as the buyer, is always the prosperous feeder. He knows that if 
he slips by once he will get caught the next time. 

Problem of Reconstruction 

It is the duty of every man to carefully weigh any situation, and 
enter no new field blindly. The question of reconstruction is being 
given thought, and every man is asking himself what part he will play 
in the readjustment. In answering this query for the sheep producer, 
I think I can safely say that it will be a very great one. Better clothes 
will be demanded by a more prosperous world, and more wool can be 
the only answer to this demand. 

The producer can expect greater demands for his products, as the 
people of the world still have to eat and wear clothes, and there is 
nothing that will surpass either mutton or lamb for food, or wool for 



Sheep; Its History, Breeding, Production 21 

clothing. What other animal or product offers so much and meets so 
great a need? Yes, Mr. Sheepman, your goods will be needed, and you 
can rightly expect good prices for them. Of course prices are sure to 
conform to a certain extent to those received for other commodities. 
Competition in business is sure to be keen, and the most successful in 
any business will be those who can produce the best quality at the low- 
est possible cost. 

Sheep and High Priced Land 

We hear some talk of land being too high for raising sheep. This 
is a false idea, and is contradicted emphatically by the facts. England, 
with land ranging from $500 to $2,000 per acre, is forced to raise sheep 
because of her high priced land. She produces several times as many 
sheep per acre as we do, and much better ones. Small farmers especially 
should grow more roots, as greater yields can be obtained per acre in 
this way. (See methods of British farmers, in chapter on dry lot 
feeding.) 

Rationing Simplified 

The rationing of feed to sheep or lambs is one of the biggest prob- 
lems for the laymen, but it is not so difficult. There is a method to be 
pursued by the inexperienced sheep feeder that is pretty safe, and he 
had better follow it until he becomes an expert, and is able to detect any 
irregularities among his sheep, caused by improper feeding. An abund- 
ance of roughage should be kept before the sheep, such as clover or 
alfalfa hay or grasses. If sheep or lambs have access to all the good, 
clean, dry roughage they can eat, they will do their own rationing. 
Great care should always be exercised in starting sheep on feed. (See 
chapter on dry lot feeding.) 

Experience of Iowa Farmer 

A little story told me the other day exemplifies my theory quite well, 
so I will relate it here. A friend of mine was called to see some sheep 
in Iowa. They were yearling wethers, running in a corn field, a nice lot 
of stuff which had been doing fine, but at that time were dying fast. 
The farmer was very much alarmed, and said : "I can't understand this 
at all. They are getting good water and salt, and are running in the 
same field they were put in when I got them." My friend said: "I 
can tell you mighty quick where the trouble lies. This is big corn, the 
ears are well up on the stalk, the corn blades are all gone, as well as the 
grass, weeds and everything else, with the exception of the corn. All 
these sheep have to eat is corn, and it is killing them. Do those clover 
hay stacks in the adjoining field belong to you?" "Yes," was the answer. 
"Then," said my friend, "haul some of it out where these sheep can. have 
all they want of it, and you will have no more loss," and he did not. 

Beginners and Their Responsibilities 

In starting beginners in the business, it is always my policy to 
impress them with the importance of their responsibilities. I have 



22 Practical Sheep Husbandry 

noticed that the successful ones always accepted their responsibility 
and did not cry over its demands. It is requisite and imperative that 
the shepherd, or master, should be just as willing to "Daddy" the mis- 
takes and failures, as he is the successes and rewards. Unless the begin- 
ner can accept this all important working formula, I advise him to let 
sheep alone. An acute sense of observation is important, but can only 
be acquired through practise and the desire to succeed. 

More Facts Needed 

The old school of plodders is fast dying out, and men are accept- 
ing their responsibilities. Beliefs, theories, practises and blind faiths 
are giving place to knowledge, and men are fast learning to look for 
the exact cause of every difficulty, and ceasing to be blinded by a result 
which they cannot understand. Not long ago, a bridge in the process of 
construction, valued at many millions of dollars, fell into the St. Lawr- 
ence river. There is little room for doubt regarding the honesty of the 
engineer who planned the bridge. His faith was probably 100 per 
cent pure, but all must admit that he was greatly in need of more facts, 
and that his faith, however strong, did not save his bridge. 

Development of the Western Flock 

There are several reasons why I am addressing myself principally 
to the corn belt section of the U. S. First because the ranchman has 
made wonderful progress in the development of his flocks, to meet the 
market demands, during the last fifteen years, also the ranchman has 
imported some of the best pure bred rams and has brought his flock 
up from the old Merino, a good foundation sheep, to a mighty good com- 
bination wool and mutton animal. The old inbred, white livered, deli- 
cately constituted sheep of a few years ago has nearly disappeared 
from the western range. Last year there were sold on fifteen dif- 
ferent markets a total of 14,929,369 sheep. Out of this grand total, it 
is pretty safe to estimate that the ranchman contributed sixty to sev- 
enty per cent. We received on the Chicago market during 1918, 4,629,- 
736 sheep, and by far the greater part were range grown. Out of this 
number, 968,000 feeding sheep and lambs and breeding ewes were 
shipped to the adjacent country around Chicago to be bred and fat- 
tened for market. A big per cent of the ranchman's shipments were 
fat and good enough for the killers, and the ones not fat enough to kill 
were, in the main, a fine quality lot of stufl". 

Quality of Western Sheep 

It is an easy matter, during the fall months, to buy a uniform band 
of feeding sheep or lambs, all one age and about the same weight. The 
sheep and lambs direct from the range are, as a whole, an almost ideal 
lot of feeders. They are bright eyed, rugged, thrifty and healthy look- 
ing. Some of them are taken out by good shepherds who like sheep, 
and they fatten and finish them and put them back on the market, a 
better bunch of stuff than when they were taken out. The finish has 
improved the quality. A large per cent of these fine feeders, however, 



Sheep; Its History, Breeding, Production 



23 



are taken out by men who know nothing about sheep, and care less. 
They take these sheep home and turn them loose on whatever rough- 




it is the Duty of this Range Herder to Find the Best Grazing for His Flock and 
Otherwise Look After Their Needs 

age they have, and when it is gone, ship them back to market. Some 
of these sheep land on pretty good feed and get fat, but a good many 
are not so fortunate, and they come back to market not much better 
than when they went out, « 

Commendable Efforts 

There is a concerted effort being made at this time by the U. S. Gov- 
ernment, the various states and other interests to overcome this evil 
with education of the right sort. Our own yard company is extending 
itself nobly at this time. New sheep docks are being built, and a sys- 
tem of unloading directly out of the cars into the sheep house is al- 
ready in operation, that promises great improvement over the old 
system. An overhead tractor and trailer system just installed, by 
which hay is delivered to the various alleys through the three large 
sheep barns, is very advantageous to the sheep shipper. The best 
clover hay and alfalfa can be selected and stored in this overhead run- 
way and can be delivered and fed on short notice. It also prevents 
injuring or shrinking sheep, which was often done by the old system 
of team and wagon. 

All Up to American Farmers 

The ranchman has nearly reached his maximum of production, so 
it is all up to the corn belt farmer to come to the front and do his part. 



24 



Practical Sheep Husbandry 




CHAPTER II 



MANAGING THE FARM FLOCK 



Charged to the Wrong Account 

THE sheep has been rightly called the "Golden Hoofed Animal," and 
because it does give so much, one would suppose men would make 
the most of this fact, but not so. The things that come easy to men, or 
that are given to them, they do not appreciate, and the man who spends 
his life aiding his fellowman is seldom respected as much as the selfish 
millionaire. 




A Good Flock is One of the Assets of This Farm 

Mortals try all the hard ways first. They have tried to make sheep 
a success by first charging to the sheep's account all of their own mis- 
takes and calling them diseases. A noted Englishman, Professor 
Huxley, has well said: "Humanity presents no more pitiable aspect 
than that afforded by its disposition persistently to resist every foot- 
step of its own progress." 



26 Practical Sheep Husbandry 

Sheep are healthy and will give back more for the good care and 
treatment accorded them than any other animal in the world, but if 
they are mistreated they will give nothing. 

Good Advice 

John Fitzgerald says : "Every quarter section of corn belt land is 
capable of furnishing the feed for a flock of 40 ewes and their produce, 
without interfering with the present system of management. Think 
what the returns from a flock of 40 good ewes, rightly managed, would 
mean to a farm. Remember, when you see a thing that needs to be done 
for a flock of sheep, that it should be done RIGHT NOW, as tomorrow 
may be too late. It may be truthfully said that carefully watching and 
doing the little things at the right time means everything in handling 
sheep. They are capable of paying greater dividends than any other 
animal, but an irritable, impatient sort of person cannot make a suc- 
cess with them." 

The complaints have been many and varied in regard to the quality 
of sheep produced by the average farmer, and I believe if he really 
knew what a bad job he has been doing in the sheep producing line, he 
would try to make amends. We often hear the remark on the market : 
"What a trashy lot of natives!" The bulk of them come to market 
weighing from 40 to 140 pounds, uncastrated, part fat and part lean, 
with no semblance of uniformity or breeding. 

Big, coarse, bucky lambs are not the best meat ; neither are the 
thousands of thin, cull native lambs and old, thin cull ewes that have 
to be slaughtered, because a feeder will not buy them. Is it any won- 
der that the consumer balks at such meat and refuses to eat it ; thereby 
causing severe fluctuations in the market? This deplorably bad situa- 
tion will not improve until the man who keeps sheep on the farm refuses 
to raise them in a haphazard fashion. There are a few good producers 
but they are at present decidedly in the minority. 

The ram should be kept separate and placed with the ewes at a 
certain time, so the lambs will come at a regular period and all be about 
the same age. Castrating and docking should be attended to without 
fail, and good feed should be provided for the ewes during winter 
months. Good, early grasses and feeds should be provided for the lambs, 
and they should be pushed along with a definite marketing time in view, 
instead of any time in the future that happens to suit, or whenever 
circumstances force their marketing. I would like to see more good 
sheep producers in the business, men who will give their sheep a major 
place on their farm, but we need far less of the cull and buck lamb 
variety. 

I propose to point out in this chapter a good business type of ewe, 
that will produce the lambs required on the market, if bred to most any 
of the pure bred rams of the breeds mentioned in the former chapter, 
and the condition that ewe and ram should be in at mating to insure a 
big per cent of lambs ; feed required for the winter flock, preparing for 
the lambing season, lambing, shearing, producing and marketing the 
early lamb, caring for the summer flock, etc. ' 

Any one wishing to breed pure blood sheep receives my hearty ap- 



Managing the Farm Flock 27 

proval, for I believe this country will need more and better bred sheep, 
and that the business will be profitable, but I am not dealing with that 
phase of the industry in this book, because I have not the space to point 
out the good and bad qualities of each breed, nor how to select and weed 
out for points peculiar to each breed, as well as crossing, and even in- 
breeding necessary to develop and bring forth certain qualities. 

Selection 

To the man who feels he would like to own sheep and do them jus- 
tice, I offer the following suggestions for selecting breeding ewes and 

rams. 

Select ewes that are: 

(a) Broad backed, well grown and lively on their feet. 

(b) Sound of teeth and milking organs; examine carefully for hard 
lumps in udders. 

(c) From one to six years old. 

(d) Covered with dense, compact coat of wool; belly and legs should 
be well covered. 

(e) Uniform in size and breeding. 

If ewes meet with above descriptions, it makes no difference 
whether they are white or black face, native or western. 

Get a ram that is wide awake, bold and strong in constitution, pure 
bred if possible, active, vigorous, from one to three years old, symmetri- 
cal and well developed, not too fine a bone, well wooled and straight in 
legs. 

The selection of breeding ewes is no small matter, and the best are 
always the cheapest, for a good ewe will eat no more than a poor one. 
No ewe kept for commercial purposes should shear less than eight 
pounds of wool. My experience has taught me to favor the western 
ewe showing a little Merino blood, if more than 200 are to be kept in 
one flock. Western ewes are generally marketed by ages, so with a 
little care, any aged ewe can be had. They are generally uniform in size, 
a little hardier than natives, and if direct from the western ranches, 
you can be sure they are in fine physical condition. 

Number to Buy 

In reference to the number to buy, all depends on the buyer, the 
amount of pasture, shed room and his facilities for handling them 
properly. I would suggest, however, that a sufficient number be bought, 
so the investment will be adequate to insure the interest of the shep- 
herd, thereby forcing him to produce the quality of wool and mutton 
that will net him good returns. 

Age 

Regarding the ages to buy, there is no definite advice to be given. 
If purchaser intends to stay in the business more than one year, he 
should buy a good, young set of ewes. The writer has a big following 



28 Practical Sheep Husbandry 

of experienced sheep men through the central states, who favor the 
older ewe. They buy an old, solid toothed set of ewes, strictly heavy 
shearers, big of frame and strong, and breed them to a pure bred ram. 
In selecting old ewes, the ewes' teeth must be carefully examined, 
udders examined for lumps, other defects, etc. Old ewes make good 
mothers and throw and raise a big per cent of lambs. These men get 
a fresh set of ewes every fall. The quality of the lambs, from a mar- 
ket standpoint, is excellent, and if fat, they sell at top prices. 

Farm Flock Recommended 

I do not favor the latter system of laising sheep, although it is all 
right and a money maker. This man must send his ewes back to mar- 
ket fat, as they are too old to go to the country again. These old ewes 
he has to keep through until fall, so for a short time he has two sets 
of ewes on his place, his fresh set and the old ones, that are kept to be 
made fat on the late fall feeds. My advice to the layman is to buy a 
younger set of ewes, allot them a place on his farm and breed them 
up from year to year. He will soon learn to love his flock, take pride 
in it, and to be ever zealous for its welfare. The possibilities of money 
making are just as great, or greater, than the other way, but aside from 
this, there is that about developing and bringing an article up to a cer- 
tain state of perfection that is gratifying to any producer. Just get- 
ting money does not constitute successful achievement. The gambler 
may be in possession of a lot of money, but I never knew one who was 
really happy. To produce something that will be of benefit to one's 
fellowman spells success. 

Most Important Periods 

One often reads or hears someone say something regarding the 
most important period between the mating of the ewe and the market- 
ing of the lamb. It is my contention that there is no most important 
period. There is no number from 1 to 9 that is most important. We 
have feeders who are "cracker jacks" six days out of the week, but are 
failures because they miss one day. 

Mating 

I will try to cover the whole period, and while, for lack of space, I 
can only touch each period, I will try to give the reader a few important 
fundamentals. 

(a) Ewes should be in flushed or gaining condition when ram is 
placed with them. 

(b) Shear ewes around the rear parts and see that dung does not 
collect there. 

(c) Ewes should be dipped at least a month before mating. 

(d) Use one good, strong, young ram with every twenty-five to 
forty ewes. 

(e) Feed the ram a pound of grain each day. 



Managing the Farm Flock 



29 



(f ) Keep a record of the time when the ram is turned in with the 
ewes and when taken away and allow a hundred and forty-five days 
from mating to lambing. 

(g) Ram will serve more ewes if separated from the ewes during 
the day, but wethers should be placed with him, so he will not fret. 

(h) By placing a bib on a common ram, he may be used as a teaser 
during the day and save the good ram from working through the flock. 

Pregnancy 

During the period of pregnancy, ewes should gain fifteen to twenty- 
five pounds. Utilize cheap roughage, corn fodder, clover hay, well 




Utilizing Cheap Roughage 



matured corn ensilage, roots, etc. Grain should be gradually added to 
roughage, a month to six weeks before lambing, and during this time 
ewes should have plenty of leguminous hay and very little ensilage, 
none if it is mildewed or sour. 

The following tables may be used as a guide for rationing ewes 
during pregnancy. Ewes weighing one hundred pounds were used in 
this test. Grain ration should be increased or decreased with the 
weather, and there is always more danger of overfeeding than not 
feeding enough. 

The following rations have been fed to pregnant ewes by the Illi- 
nois Station. Where pasture and corn stalks were used, the ewes 
were not fed hay and grain each day. (The figures represent pounds 
of feed or of gain per ewe per day.) 



30 



Practical Sheep Husbandry 



Feed for 100-Pound Ewe 



Feed for 115-Pound Ewe 



RATION I 

Corn silage 9 

Clover hay 2.0 

Daily gain 

RATION II 

Corn silage 2 

Clover hay 4 

Pasture in clover and in corn 
stalks 



Daily gain 



.06 



RATION IV 

Shelled corn 25 

Alfalfa hay 2.50 

Daily gain 

RATION V 

Shelled corn 30 

Alfalfa hay 1.50 

Oat straw 1.25 

Daily gain 



.17 



.08 



RATION III 

Corn silage 5 

Clover hay 7 

Pasture in corn stalks 



Daily gain 



RATION VI 

Shelled com 06 

Alfalfa hay 80 

Oat straw 25 

Blue grass pasture and corn 
stalks 



.07 



Daily gain 



.07 



Since starting to write this book, I have consulted a number of 
successful sheep producers, and they as a whole advocate against feed- 
ing ensilage to pregnant ewes, during the month or six weeks previous 
to lambing. They claim that the ewes are inclined to lose their lambs, 
and that neither ewe nor lamb is strong at time of birth. No doubt poor 
ensilage was cause of complaints. Roots in limited quantities are con- 
sidered by many good shepherds to be a good feed for pregnant ewes. 

During pregnancy, or through the winter months, ewes should not 
be kept housed. They should have plenty of exercise and the shed or 
barn they are housed in at night or on stormy, winter days, should 
always be well bedded, dry and well ventilated, to avoid drafts. They 
should have clean, pure water in abundance and access to salt. 

Henry reports that Carlyle and Kleinheinz at the Wisconsin station 
recorded the amount of feed eaten by well-fed, pregnant Shropshire, 
Dorset, Southdown, Merino and Shropshire-Merino ewes, ranging in 
weights from 138 pounds to 157 pounds each at the beginning of the 
trial. The ewes were divided evenly as to size and breed into lots of 
12. The mixed grain fed consisted of equal parts of corn, oats and bran. 

The corn forage consisted of corn fodder and corn stover. The 
table shows the average amount of feed consumed daily by each ewe 
during the winter and the average daily gain of each lot. 

Feed required to maintain a breeding ewe one (1) day in winter: 



SINGLE TRIAL LOT I 

Shelled corn 5 

Mixed hay 2.0 

Corn silage 2.5 

Av. daily gain .23 

SINGLE TRIAL LOT II 

Whole oats 5 

Mixed hay 2.0 

Corn silage 2.5 

Av. daily gain .23 



SINGLE TRIAL LOT III 

Wheat bran 5 

Mixed hay 2.0 

Corn silage 2.5 

Av. daily gain .20 

SINGLE TRIAL LOT IV 

Dried brewers grain 5 

Mixed hay 2.0 

Corn silage 2.5 

Av. daily gain .24 



Managing the Farm Flock 31 

single trial lot v single trial lot vi 

Mixed grain 5 Mixed grain 5 

Corn forage 3.3 Corn silage 2.9 

Mixed hay 2.1 

Av. daily gain .19 Av. daily gain .16 

SINGLE TRIAL LOT VII 

Mixed grain 5 

Roots 2.9 

Mixed hay 2.6 

Av. daily gain .13 

All rations tested were highly satisfactory. The daily cost of main- 
taining these large ewes was 2c per head or less, according to value of 
feeds used. In previous trials at the Wisconsin station, Craig consid- 
ers Alsike Clover hay one of the best dry roughages, as it was eaten 
with relish and with small waste. Corn fodder and oat hay also proved 
satisfactory. 

Preparation for Lambing 

(a) In preparing for the lambing season, farm work should be 
planned so that the shepherd can keep a close watch over the flocks 
both day and night. 

(b) Ewes that are about due to lamb should be kept away from 
other live stock as large animals may injure them. Hogs greedily 
devour young lambs. 

(c) In cold weather provide warm quarters, well bedded with a 
south exposure, as sunshine is important. Ewes should have plenty 
of room to avoid crowding, and openings, small gates, etc., should be 
closed, through which ewes heavy with lamb might squeeze and injure 




Our Little Friends Taking a Sun Bath 



themselves or the lambs. Small openings through which young lambs 
might creep and wander away should also be closed up. 



32 



Practical Sheep Husbandry 



(d) A portable lambing pen 4x4 
or 4x6 is the best place for a ewe 
and lamb until the lamb is two or 
three days old and the mother owns 
it. Several of these should be pro- 
vided. There should also be pro- 
vided a place well bedded and dry, 
where ewes and their lambs may 
be together, until the lambs are 
10 days to two weeks old, when 
they can be turned loose. 

(e) It is well to have castor 
oil, linseed oil or vaseline to be used 
on the hand when entering the ewe 
to give assistance ; also nipples are 
requisite for feeding milk to young 
lambs. 

Lambing 




This detachable lambing pen hinged together 
may be hooked to the wall, other pens may be 
added as needed, one end being hooked to the 
corner of last pen and the other to the WcdI. 
After lambing panels may then be folded Euid 
stored until the next season. 



When the ewe is giving birth to the lamb, do not disturb her so 
long as everything seems to be going well. Be very sure she must have 
help, and give time for much laboring before assistance is attempted. 
Then learn what position the lamb is in. The natural delivery is made 
fore feet first, nose lying snugly on fore feet, or it may be delivered 
hind feet first. Before entering ewe to get lamb into proper position, 

the hands should be per- 
fectly clean, with finger 
nails cut very short to avoid 
scratching or cutting ten- 
der membrane of the ewe. 
"Cleanliness is next to god- 
liness." Smear the hand 
well with vaseline or oil. 
Care should be taken not to 
tear the parts of the ewe. 
After quietly and patiently 
working the lamb into posi- 
tion, pull very steadily on 
the lamb, slightly down- 
ward, and pull when the 
ewe labors. Be sure to keep 
the head coming with the 
fore feet until the nose is 
exposed. 

Care of Ew^e and Lambs 

After the lamb is born, 
give the ewe close attention 
for several days. Note 
. .. „ ^ . . .. whether she casts after- 

These Latmbs Must Be Fed by Hand, While the Swollen u • j.i i i j.i i 

Udder is Being Cared for birth, find whcther hcr 




Managing the Farm Flock 



33 



bowels are normal. Examine her udder, and milk her if the lamb does 
not take all the milk. Give her all the pure water she wants, but not 
in large quantities, unless it can be kept before her all the time. She 
should have good feed, such as clover hay and oats, but not much grain 
for two or three days. After the lamb is a week old, the ewe must have 
plenty of good feed, until grass. Wool locks should be clipped from the 
milking organs, so young lambs will not be sucking one of them instead 
of the teat. 

The shepherd need not be worried if the ewe refuses to eat immedi- 
ately after lambing. If sheep receive good feed and have plenty of 
exercise, health will be good or normal, but if the bowels should become 
irregular from improper care or feeding and there seems to be an imme- 
diate need, one-third pint of raw linseed oil may be given, or more if 
needed. 

A ewe torn inwardly, or failing to cast afterbirth should be washed 
out daily with injections of boiled water, after the water has cooled. 
Ewes with swollen udders should be removed to comfortable quarters 
and carefully milked. Their lambs should be fed by hand on warmed 
cow's milk until the udder is normal, to avoid poisoning the lamb. .The 
lamb should be kept in an adjoining pen where the mother can see it 
and smell it, otherwise she may disown it. If the lamb's teeth make 
the teats sore, the ewe should be milked, and soft soap may be rubbed 
on the teats to keep the lambs from injuring them, or the lamb taken 
from the ewe for a few days, until the teats are healed up. 

When the lamb is born, place it and the mother in a small pen. 
Little attention need be given the 
strong lamb whose mother has 
plenty of milk. If the ewe has no 
milk, it is best to take a little from 
one that has more than enough for 
her own lamb. The next best thing 
is to feed whole cow's milk, using 
about two tablespoonsf ul every two 
or three hours. The milk should be 
warmed, and to accomplish this, 
place a bottle in a pail of hot water. 
Pail and bottle should be taken to 
where lamb is to be fed, and the 
milk should not be hot, just milk 
warm. 

Chilled Lamb 



If the lamb is weak, get it to 
nurse as soon as possible by hold- 
ing it to the teat. If it refuses to 
nurse, then feed it until it gains in 
strength and develops an appetite. 
If the lamb is chilled, place all but 
the head in warm water and keep 
pouring in more as the water cools, 




Taking Care of the Orphans is Only One of 
Things Necessary to Save a Big 
Per Cent of Lambs 



the 



34 



Practical Sheep Husbandry 



to keep the temperature up so one's hand is comfortable in the water. 
When lamb becomes somewhat lively, rub it dry with a coarse cloth, 
wrap all but its nose in a blanket or thick cloth, feed it, and place it in 
a warm place to sleep. Keep it away from its mother no longer than is 
necessary. It is best to wrap a lamb with cloth, that is to be placed in 
artificially heated quarters. 

Teaching Ewe to Own Lamb 

If ewe disowns lamb, shepherd must get her to own it. Try smear- 
ing on her own nose and the rump of the lamb some of her own milk. 
When the lambs are twins and the ewe disowns one or both, then both 
lambs should be kept in an adjoining pen where the ewe can see them, 
and both placed with the mother at the same time, so that in her 
anxiety to let the one that she owns nurse, she will let the other one 
nurse also. If ewe with good supply of milk is left without a lamb, 
she should be employed to nurse one not getting enough milk from its 
own mother, or to adopt an orphan. Sometimes removing the skin from 
the dead lamb of the intended mother and placing it on the back of the 
stranger is effectual; again to rub the lamb under the ewe's tail does 
the work. Keeping ewe away from water for a few hours and rubbing 
the lamb with salt is advocated as effectual. 



Remedy Must Be Found in Cause 

The different remedies advocated to cure through medicine, the 
various so-called diseases or troubles among young lambs or sheep will 
receive no consideration from me, inasmuch as the methods pursued by 
different doctors are so varied and contradictory. I agree with the 
doctors when their advice is that the least medicine or drugs given 
the better. Sheep require a variety of feeds, and a strong argument in 
favor of changing sheep from pasture to pasture is that it gives them 
a variety, and an opportunity to obtain the food they want. Give your 
sheep good, clean, wholesome food, pure water, dry sanitary shelter, 
and if trouble does present itself, find the cause and remove it and the 
result or disease will vanish in short order. I have every consideration 

for the feelings and beliefs 
of my fellowman, and would 
not advise any man to quit 
the use of drugs as long as 
he believes they are benefi- 
cial and a remedy for dis- 
ease. I honestly believe 
that doctors as a whole are 
honest and high-minded 
men, but I cannot believe 
that their drugs have done 
the sheep business any 
good. All of my observa- 
K^"^^;:^ 'X^>*s^:. tions, during the years I 

Lamb creep with rollers for uprights haVC Spent in this busineSS^ 




Managing the Farm Flock 35 

strongly convince me that drugs and sheep do not go together. Just as 
long as men depend on drugs to eliminate physical difficulties, just that 
long will they be breeding for themselves disappointments, and also the 
difficulties which they wish to eliminate. 

Teaching Lambs to Eat Early 

In preparing lambs for market, build a creep near feeding ground 
and feed them all of the following or any other good grain mixture that 
they will eat. The figures indicate parts by weight. Start lambs eating 
hay and grain early. A little sugar sprinkled on the feed, or a taste 
from the hand will start them eating. 

FIRST PERIOD SECOND PERIOD THIRD PERIOD 

(30 Days) (30 Days) (30 Days) 

Corn, ground 6 Corn, whole or Corn, whole 6 

Oats, crushed 6 ground 6 Oats, whole 3 

Cottonseed or linseed Oats, whole or Linseed oil meal. .. . 1 

meal 6 crushed 6 Hay or pasture 

Clover or alfalfa hay Cottonseed or linseed 

Wheat bran 6 meal 2 

Hay or pasture 

Docking 

Cleanliness in feed, water and everything is imperative. Dock and 
castrate lambs any time after they are five days old, but it should be 
done within three weeks after birth if possible. There are several 
methods to be employed in docking, but the one adopted by the most 
successful shepherds is to tie or cord the tail very tight with paper 
fleece twine, just above where it is to be cut. Use a bright, clean, wide 
wood chisel, a large pair of evenly sharpened pincers or a sharp knife. 
It is generally best to do the docking in the evening, so the lambs will 
lie down and do no fretting. Be sure to remove the cord the next morn- 
ing, leaving it on only about twelve hours. Heavy paper fleece twine 
makes an ideal cord as it is large enough not to cut the flesh. The tail 
should be cut off about 1 to I14, inches from the rump. It is also 
important to push the tail towards the body at the time the severance 
is being made, so that there is enough loose skin to close over the stump. 
Pine tar may be used if the flies are bad. 

Patent docking irons are often used, which burn through the tail. 
There is hardly any loss of blood, but if the iron is too hot, the wound 
may be slow in healing. A board with a hole in it, to pull the tail 
through serves to regulate the distance from the body to sever the tail, 
and also keeps from burning the lamb. The irons should be quite hot 
and the operation performed quickly, so as not to unnecessarily burn 
the tail. 

Castrating 

Castrating should be done at the same time as the docking, or the 
following morning. Lambs should always be held gently, but firmly. 
The knife or shears should be bright and clean, and a nice, clean place 
should be selected for the operation. Cut off lower third of the scrotum^ 



36 Practical Sheep Husbandry 

then the testicles may be removed by grasping them gently but firmly 
and pulling them straight out, one at a time. Many good shepherds 
prefer to pull them with the teeth, as it is very difficult to grasp them 
firmly enough with the fingers. Each operation should be done 
thoroughly, but as quickly as possible. 

Early Lambs : Why ? 

The early marketing of lambs in the central states has several 
very commendable advantages over the custom of running them through 
and marketing them in the fall and winter. Here are a few points to 
be considered : 

(a) They gain little or none during the two hot summer months, 
July and August. 

(b) Hot, droughty weather always presents extra problems, some- 
times that of water, and generally a question of sufficient nutritious, 
fattening feeds. 

(c) It lessens the demands of the pasture at the time most needed 
for the breeding flocks. 

(d) Labor is saved if lambs are marketed at weaning time. 

(e) There is also the decided advantage of avoiding the congestion 
and heavy receipts always encountered in the fall. 

(f ) The use of the money obtained is a consideration to many people 
at this season of the year or before the' harvesting of crops. 

(g) It is also a fact that the big, quick gains are the most remuner- 
ative, one time with another. 

(h) Lambs will make a bigger gain on less feed during the first four 
months than at any other time in their lives. 

Producing the Early Lamb 

To produce the early lamb, early rye or wheat fields may be utilized 
to good advantage as a part of the roughage. Early pasturing of 
either is beneficial, rather than a detriment to the rye or wheat. Early 
alfalfa or clover is fine, and blue grass pasture is always good. The 
shepherd must exercise caution in pasturing alfalfa to avoid bloating 
and scouring. Advantage should be taken of the spring and early 
summer grasses, but these grasses, no matter how good, will hardly 
produce the kind of lambs required at the market by the time or before 
the hot weather begins. Lambs should average at least 65 to 75 pounds 
on the market to be of desirable weight for the demand during the sum- 
mer months. The most desirable weight for fat lambs during the late 
fall and winter is 75 to 85 pounds on the market. 

Shearing 

Shearing is one of the harvesting times, and should not be treated 
lightly. Burs, cur dogs, poor fences, dirty barn yards, carelessness 
and neglect are all children of old "Daddy Failure," and do not fit in 
with the sheep business. Digging a ditch in a dress suit, or scrubbing 
a floor in a silk dress is right in line with turning sheep with valuable 



Managing the Farm Flock 



37 



wool into a field infested with burs. The wool should be clipped, if 
possible, with a clipping machine. A longer staple is obtained, a 
smoother job done and less risk is run of cutting the wool twice, which 
is injurious to its value, or the sheep once. 

Shearing should be done from the middle of April to the middle of 
May. A board platform should be erected, fleece removed, wool ends 
gathered up and platform swept clean after each sheep shorn. The 
belly should be shorn first and this wool, along with the odd locks, 
placed in the center of the fleece. The fleece should be picked up care- 
fully and thrown on a clean table and folded thrice lengthwise. Then 
fold in each end and roll, exposing the inside of the wool. All dung 
locks should be carefully removed and thrown in the manure pile. 

Wool should positively never be tied with binding twine. It will 
decrease its value 10 per cent. Strings of the twine remain in the wool 
and will not take a dye, therefore such wool cannot be used in making 
a fine grade of cloth. Always use paper or three ply India twine. Sack 
or bail, and store in a clean, dry place. 

Dipping 

Dipping should follow shearing in the course of a week to ten days. 
After the ewes are shorn, ticks or mites go over on the lambs, and 




Western Breeding Ewes Being Chsmged to a Fresh Pasture 

unless the whole flock is thoroughly dipped, it will only be a matter 
of time until the flock is infested again. It is weU to dip the flock 
twice, the second dipping about two weeks after the first, giving any 
eggs not destroyed by the first dipping time to hatch out. It is also 
requisite to dip the breeding flocks again, just before cold weather. 



38 Practical Sheep Husbandry 

Ticks are a nuisance, and sheep infested with them will not fatten nearly 
so well. It is also well to take every precaution against scab, because 
if it breaks out in the winter time it is hard to conrol, and great incon- 
venience and risk is encountered if sheep have to be dipped in the dead 
of winter. 

MANAGING THE FLOCK THROUGH THE SUMMER 

When it is not practicable or possible to market lambs early and 
they are to be run through and fattened on the fall roughage with 
grain, a few suggestions for managing the summer flock may prove 
useful. 

Weaning 

If lambs are being prepared for the early market, it is well not to 
wean them until they are placed on the market. But when they are to 
be carried through, lambs should be weaned reasonably early, as a pair 
of robust lambs are very rough with a ewe, especially if they are not 
getting all the milk they want, and no grain is being given to offset 
this. It does not do a lamb any good to keep thrusting its nose after 
the teat, under the hot flanks of the ewe. Both mother and lamb are 
better off if separated. There is, of course, a natural weaning time, 
but under certain conditions they ought to be weaned before this time. 

STOMACH WORM 

Progressive System of Changing Pasture Recommended as Remedy 

Lambs are much more affected by the stomach worm than the older 
sheep, and it is often possible to shift them on to newer and unused 
pastures through the hot months. The progressive system of pasturing 
and forage crops are receiving the most consideration as a remedy for 
the stomach worm. 

In the early spring, rye or wheat fields can be utilized to give the 
blue grass or tame pastures a chance to get started. Then the sheep 
can be shifted to the clover pasture, and again on the clover meadow, 
after the hay is cut. From there to the stubble fields, and then into 
the corn fields, where with an added amount of grain the sheep or lambs 
that are to be marketed are made fat. Of course there are the forage 
crops, such as rape, soy beans, etc. Through the summer months sheep 
should not remain on one pasture more than two or three weeks at a 
time. Lowlands should be avoided, especially on wet, rainy days, be- 
cause it is when the grass is wet that the stomach worms crawl up the 
blades of grass, and are ready to be taken by any animal that comes 
along. It is claimed that stomach worms are much worse on lowlands 
than on high. There should always be shade, and if there are no trees, 
then some shelter from the hot sun should be furnished. 

Progressive System on 160- Acre Farm 

F. R. Marshall of the Department of Animal Industry, offers the 



Managing the Farm Flock 



39 



on a 



following suggestions for a three year rotation system to apply 
one hundred and sixty acre farm : 

25 Acres Corn : To finish 20 yearling cattle and 40 hogs. 

15 Acres Silage Corn: Roughage for 20 cows, 20 yearling cattle, 80 ewes, 20 ewe, 

lambs and work stock. 
40 Acres Wheat and Oats: Grain for sale or exchange for other feeds. 
20 Acres Clover Hay 

20 Acres Clover Pasture: Season's grazing for 20 breeding cows. 
20 Acres Permanent Grass Pasture: Grazing for 20 yearling cattle on feed for 

December shipment. 
10 Acres Forage Crops: In the above sheep would be grazed as follows: 

First: On winter wheat. 

Second : On grass pasture with yearling cattle. 

Third: With cows on clover pasture. 

Fourth: On clover meadow after hay is cut. 

Fifth: On grain stubble. 

Sixth: In corn fields after silage is cut or corn harvested. 

Seventh: On winter wheat. 

At other times on rape, soy beans, or other grazing crops on 10-acre 

field. Unused forages harvested for winter feed. 

Such a plan as this allows sufficiently frequent change of pasture 
without any part of the flock going upon land that has previously car- 
ried sheep in the same year. The forage crop land is a safety measure 
for reliance in case of shortage of other feeds, and could regularly be 
used for carrying the reserved ewe lambs from weaning time until 
winter. 




Shade is Very Important On a Hot Day 



After Weaning 

After weaning it is often advisable to place the ewes on dry pasture, 
so the milk flow will be decreased. Udders should be watched closely. 



40 



Practical Sheep Husbandry 



and milked out every two or three days if necessary. Lambs really 
should never run through the summer without some grain, because 
after they are weaned, unless they have good feed they are liable to go 
back, and are hard to start again in the fall. 

Feeding the lambs a little grain each day affords an opportunity 
for counting and inspecting them. Oats, corn, wheat, barley and such 
concentrates as wheat bran, linseed oil meal or cake and cotton seed 
meal are good. Usually it is not necessary to feed more than one-fourth 
of a pound of grain per head daily, if the pasture or forage is good. 
Oats alone serve as a good builder, but will not produce much fat. Salt 
and good water are always imperative, and both should be always kept 
before them. 

Bringing in the Flock at Night 

The writer has always felt that the breeder or feeder who really 
likes his stock will want it at home when night comes, besides it is a 
part of the nature and breeding of sheep to be housed or penned at 
night. Why go against a handicap that education and breeding has 
established, by leaving your sheep in the field at night? There can be 
no good results expected from either man or beast, if they are full of 
fear. My recollections are all in favor of bringing in the flock at night. 
When I enter a barnyard at sunset and see the cows, horses, sheep, etc.. 




These Sheep Recognize This Dog As Their Friend 

they all have the look: "We're glad to be here. We know this is our 
home and that we will be protected, because you are our master." I love 
a good dog, but the roaming cur is no friend of mine, neither have I 
been especially drawn to the family who are so poverty-stricken that 



Managing the Farm Flock 41 

they do not know where their next meal is coming from, but still keep 
from one to half a dozen mongrels that put in the night killing lambs 
or anything they can find. I strongly advocate a high dog tax as being 
the most effective method of combating the cur dog nuisance. 

Sheep as Plant Scavengers 

Henry says : "Sheep are the plant scavengers of the farm. Because 
of its dainty manner of nibbling we might suppose its likes were few 
and its dislikes many. However, just the opposite is the case, and no 
domestic or wild animal is capable of subsisting on more different kinds 
of food; grasses, shrubs, roots, cereal grains, leaves, and in times of 
scarcity, fish and meats. In Norway and Sweden they often have to 
exist through a hard winter on pungent, resinous evergreens." 



Twenty-five Reasons Why the Average American Farmer Should 
Keep Some Sheep On His Farm 

1. He can procure any number that will suit his financial condition. 

2. Sheep pay dividends twice a year, making quick returns on the 
investment. 

3. The per cent of profit depends on the shepherd, and may be 1 to 
200 per cent. 

4. There are no expensive buildings necessary. 

5. They will do better on poor producing land and do more towards 
building it up than any other animal. 

6. They both clothe and feed their master. 

7. Owing to their fine mastication they do not scatter weed seed over 
a farm through their manure. 

8. If the feed-lot is dry when they go into it, it will be dry when they 
come out, because they do not tramp it up and get it knee deep in mud. 

9. They will do more towards cleaning up a farm and keeping a 
good one good than any other animal. 

10. They are gentle to handle and nice to feed. 

11. Wheat and rye fields may be pastured winter and spring, when 
other animals would injure the crops. 

12. They tramp the earth well down on the roots of wheat and rye, 
and by cropping it down cause it to stool out and produce a bigger crop. 

13. The cost of maintenance is small. 

14. Sheep can be fattened with less grain and in a shorter period of 
time than almost any other animal. 

15. Any class of feed can be turned to a profit through sheep, by 
adding to it the rations required. 



42 



Practical Sheep Husbandry 



16. The quality of a flock can quickly be 
improved, because one good ram will get 50 to 
60 lambs, and may improve the quality 100 
per cent. 

17. They are one of the healthiest animals 
in the world. 

18. They can subsist and thrive on more 
different kinds of feeds than any other animal 
known to man, barring the goat. 

19. Sheep are called the dual purpose ani- 
mal, but they do many things at the same time, 
for instance, make wool and food, fertilize land, 
clean up a farm, tramp the wheat or rye, and 
a multitude of other things. 

20. They offer fresh meat at any time of 
the year. 

21. Quick cash can be had in case of need. 

22. They offer the opportunity to start the 
boy in business. 

23. They will help kill the child's worst enemy, fear. 

24. By producing forage crops to feed sheep, greater returns can 
be obtained from the land. 

25. They will convert a weedy pasture into blue grass and clover 
quicker than any other class of live stock. 




No Trouble Getting This Young 

Man Interested in the 

Business 



Managing the Farm Flock 



43 




Some sings of the lily, and daisy, and rose, 

And the pansies and pinks that the Summertime throws 

In the green grassy lap of the medder that lays 

Blinkin' up at the skyes through the sunshiny days ; 

But what is the lily and all of the rest 

Of the flowers, to a man with a hart in his breast 

That was dipped brimmin' full of the honey and dew 

Of the sweet clover-blossoms his babyhood knew? 



I never set eyes on a clover-field now, 

Er fool round a stable, er climb in the mow, 

But my childhood comes back jest as clear and as plane 

As the smell of the clover Fm sniffin again ; 

And so I love clover — it seems like a part 
Of the sacerdest sorrows and joys of my hart ; 
And wharever it blossoms, oh, thare let me bow 
And thank the good God as I'm thankin' him now. 



— Riley. 



44 



Practical Sheep Husbandry 




CHAPTER III 



FIELD FEEDING 



Cleaning and Fertilizing the Farm 

DURING the last few years there has sprung up a practice of using 
the thin fleshed western or range sheep and lambs on the central 
states grain farms to clean up weed patches, stubble fields and the like. 
Farmers have learned they can fertilize their land and produce bigger 
crops in this way, but they have not all learned that this class of feed 




This Farmer Added the Required Amount of Grain to His Roughage to Produce These Fat Sheep 

will not, in itself, produce fat sheep and lambs, which is necessary to 
make this class of feeding a success. It will be my intention to point 
out in this chapter some of the methods to be followed to insure success. 
I would also like to say that the farmer who has not the time nor the 
inclination to study the most approved methods for feeding and fatten- 



46 



Practical Sheep Husbandry 



ing sheep before he goes into the business had better let sheep alone, 
for the odds would all be against him. 

Feeders of sheep and lambs are composed of two general classes, 
the field feeder and the dry-lot or barn feeder. As the field feeder is 
first to come on the market in the fall to purchase his feeders, and also 
as he generally finishes his stuff in the dry lot, we will take up his prob- 
lem first, and lead up to dry lot feeding. 

Quality of Feeders 

It is during the autumn that the ranchman sends his fat sheep and 
lambs to market. If the range is good, a large per cent of his holdings 




Several Thousand Range Sheep on the Way to Market 

get fat, but there are always a good many that are not fat enough for 
the killers, and these are termed feeders. It is in the fall, also, that he 
culls his flocks and sorts out everything not suitable to be kept on the 
range. Included in the ranchman's shipments in the fall may be found 
fat lambs, feeding lambs, fat and feeding yearling wethers, and fat and 
feeding aged wethers. He also markets any young ewes in excess of 
the number he has feed for during the coming winter, and he is careful 
to sort out and market all old ewes that will not stand the hard, open 
winter. Of the latter, part may be fat and go to the killers, or they 
may all be thin with good solid teeth, and good for one or two years' 
service as breeders through the central states, where good shelter and 
nourishing food is provided. These old ewes may also be broken or 
short toothed stuff, not good enough for breeders, but will get fat with 
the proper feeds. In fattening such ewes grain should be ground or 
cracked ; in other words they should have soft feed. They generally 
sell at a low price, only a little higher than cull ewes, a kind not suitable 
even to go out as feeders. The culls are bought by the killers for can- 
ning purposes. 

Fall Roughage 

Nearly every year, just after the harvesting of the small grains, 



Field Feeding 



47 



there may be found on nearly every farm throughout the central and 
eastern states, a considerable amount of roughage which makes excel- 
lent sheep and lamb feed. It is found in the form of oat, wheat, rye, 
and barley stubble fields, blue grass pasture, weedy corn fields and 
waste patches generally. Farmers have learned that they can market 
this otherwise wasted roughage via the sheep route and at the same 
time clean up their farms and fertilize their land. Some falls, when 
weed seeds ripen, and quite a little grain is left in the stubble fields, 
sheep will get quite fat without any added grain, but this is very unusual 
and should never be depended upon. Ordinarily, this class of feed will 
put on a big, growthy gain, but will not produce the finish required at 
the market. Quick gains are generally the most economical, and most 
successful field feeders have found that they make more money and 
have less risk if they feed grain with this roughage to the amount re- 
quired to insure a finished product by the time rough feed is gone, or 
at most enough grain so as only to be required to feed in a dry lot for a 
short time after green feed is gone. 

Feeders Adaptable to Feed 

If the field feeder feels he wants to utilize his green feeds first, and 
only feed grain in the dry lot after green feeds are gone, then he should 
use caution in regard to the class of feeders he buys. There is a very- 
important rule to follow in selecting feeders, so no mistake will be made 
in getting something that will be adaptable to one's feeds. Always buy 
a class of sheep or lambs that you can be sure to offer better feed than 
they have been receiving. This rule holds good among all kinds of 
live stock. During the past few years conditions on the range have 
greatly improved. On many 
ranches good feeds are provided 
and flocks are brought through the 
winter in good shape and start out 
in the spring strong, with the ewes 
giving a good flow of milk for the 
lambs. In some places tame pas- 
tures have been developed to give 
the ewe and lamb an early start, 
and later to graze on buffalo, wheat 
and other western grasses, much 
more fattening and nutritious than 
the average grasses or roughage 
found in the central states. Idaho 
and Washington, which states are the big contributors during July, 
August and September, produce very fine stuff and sheep and lambs 
from these states are, as a rule, fleshy, even the feeding end. Some 
of these western sheep and lambs come to market as fat as the farmer 
can make them with grain. The farmer taking these fleshy feeders out 
to feed must know this and be prepared to offer them nutritious feeds, 
and generally a grain ration must be added, otherwise his sheep and 
lambs will grow but will not fatten, and may lose flesh. There are, 
however, ranges that do not produce such fleshy stuff, or it may be 
drouthy in that section, making it possible to obtain a thin class of 




Range Ewes Brought Through the Winter 
Strong and Vigorous 



48 Practical Sheep Husbandry 

feeders, healthy and all right, that will do to go out and clean up even 
wild pasture and do pretty well on it. If the quality of the feeds to 
be utilized is poor, get something that shows plainly that it has been 
running on poorer feeds. Of course this will only hold good where 
sheep or lambs still remain strong, for if they are in a run down, weak- 
ened condition they must have good feed and care. A good, strong, 
fleshy set of feeders will gain faster than thinner ones on good feed, 
but the feed must be good. 

Cattle Ranchman Offers Example 

One of the big cattle feeder buyers on this market, who owns a 
large tract of wild pasture land in Indiana, said to me : "A short while 
ago a commission firm purchased for one of my neighbors a fleshy set 
of feeding cattle. These cattle were turned out to graze through the 
summer on this wild land, and in the fall you would not have known 
them, for they had gone all to pieces, while our cattle, running in an 
adjoining pasture made a fine gain and were a set of nice, fleshy feed- 
ers ready to finish on grain during the winter." 

Better Fall Feeds Provided 

The most successful field feeders have found it expedient to pro- 
vide more and better field feeds to go along with the ordinary rough- 
age found on the average farm. Such forage crops as rape, soy beans, 
field peas, etc., sown in with the corn, or in a field alone, make excel- 
lent sheep feeds, and sometimes no grain need be added at all ; but this 
must be watched closely and an added amount of grain given if the 
sheep are to be marketed when green feed is gone, or the farmer must 
be prepared with clover or alfalfa hay, corn stover, bean straw or other 
suitable roughage, and succulent feeds, such as ensilage, roots, etc., to 
finish them up in a dry lot. 

Noah Fouts, a lamb feeder of Camden, Indiana, writes as follows 
regarding the merits of soy beans as sheep feed : 

"We turned to sheep several years ago because of the available 
roughage we saw going to waste every year. We soon learned, how- 
ever, that this roughage alone would not produce the finish required 
at the market. We began looking for a supplement for high priced 
grain and think we have found it in soy beans. We do not claim that 
we can always finish our sheep or lambs without adding some grain 
but we have reduced it to a minimum. 

"We have found soy beans a wonderful sheep feed. We generally 
sow them in with the corn or rape and turn the sheep in on them. We 
always produce an abundance of clover, alfalfa and soy bean hay as well 
as corn stover. We have found it imperative to have an abundance of 
dry roughage for winter feeding. 

"We seldom miss the top of the market and our last load or tail end 
feeding was good enough to put an extreme top on the lamb market. 
When feeding in the dry lot, we feed a ration of about equal parts shelled 
corn and soy beans. We are raising bigger and better crops and have 
increased the value of our land considerably. We find sheep practical 
on our high priced land. I strongly caution any one starting in the 



Field Feeding 49 

sheep business to steer clear of the scenery method and not to try- 
handling sheep unless there is a liking for them." 

Comparison of Results 

During the fall months, or western season, some of the big ranch- 
men market several thousand lambs. They send down a train load at 
a time to be unloaded at feeding and grazing stations a few miles 
from the market. These sheep or lambs are then ordered in from day 
to day by the commission man, a few cars at a time as the market 
demands. There is offered then from day to day the same ranchman's 
breeding. I have seen these lambs taken out by the various country- 
men and have observed the different results obtained by these men 
with idntically the same class of stock. The weights most approved 
for feeding lambs run 55 pounds to 62 pounds. Going out, these lambs 
were a thrifty, hardy, choice quality, uniform band. Some returned 
them fat, with a big gain, quality improved, with the finish obtained, 
while others returned them pretty good or half-fat with a good growthy 
gain, but not fat enough to be good killers, and too heavy for desir- 
able feeders. Still others returned them weighing less than when 
going out as feeders, these lambs plainly showing abuse, lack of feed, 
and likely no salt, water or care. In a great many instances these men 
would charge that their lambs as feeders were not healthy, therefore 
the results. Some were ignorant of the requirements of the market 
and supposed that a half-fat or pretty good sheep or lamb was satis- 
factory to a certain extent to the killers. 

Finishing Sheep vs. Cattle 

It might be well to state here that there is a practice among cattle 
feeders of short feeding or half fattening cattle, and that there is a 
good demand for the various kinds of beef, but that long ago it was 
learned that a half-fat or pretty good sheep or lamb was not a success. 
Only a month's feeding often raises the quality of a lamb or sheep two 
or three dollars a hundred weight. Ninety to one hundred and twenty 
days is generally the required time to fatten and finish a sheep or lamb, 
whereas it takes eight to ten months to fatten or finish a steer. 

When to Market 

Very often in the fall farmers are able to get such cheap gains 
that they can ship their sheep or lambs back to market and sell them 
at the price paid for them as feeders and still make money. However, 
the purchaser should never figure on a small margin, and generally he 
should allow himself a margin of two to three dollars per hundred- 
weight between the price he pays for his feeders and the expected fat 
price. During the big receipts in the fall, however, fat stuff generally 
is, and should be, at the low point of the year, therefore fat and feeder 
prices may be close together at that time. Neither the central states pro- 
ducer or feeder should plan his feedings so that he will have to market 
his fat stuff during the time the big fall rush is on. His marketings 
should either be made before or after. 



50 Practical Sheep Husbandry 

Kinds to Buy 

Kinds to buy depends on the feeds that are available. Thin natives 
should never be taken out as feeders from a market, for they do not 
fatten evenly, and if wormy, cause trouble. Native sheep or lambs 
should be made fat by the man who produces them. If thin, they have 
to sell to the packers as culls at low prices. In this country lamb meat 
is favored, but in England and some other countries, mutton is equally 
favored. Lambs are generally the most economical class to feed. 
First, because of the premium paid for them over mutton; second, 
because all the tests show that lambs consume less feed for the amount 
of gain than do older sheep. Some feeders favor older sheep where 
roughage is the principal consideration, and if it is to be fed in the field. 
The claim is made by these men that older sheep will come nearer get- 
ting fat running in a field than lambs. The writer gives this argument 
some consideration, as any young animal is harder to fatten than an 
older one, if given exercise. Where a large amount of roughage is to 
be consumed, a bunch of old ewes, too old to go as breeders and that 
have been suckling lambs all summer, will put on a big gain, and often 
can be bought at a price so low that they are to be preferred to lambs. 
Aged wethers, which, however, are seldom over three or four years 
old, are always good plant scavengers, make good corn buskers and 
are easy to handle and fatten. Yearling wethers, if of handy weights 
when fat, say under a hundred pounds, sell as lambs to the butcher, 
providing their front joints break, which is one way of convincing 
the butcher that he is buying lamb. (Desirable weights change from 
time to time.) They are also, as a rule, robust and hardy, but are a 
little harder to finish than older wethers. 

If the farmer has cutover brush land or wild pasture he wishes 
tamed down, goats should be used, or big, strong wethers, thin in flesh. 
Ewes with lambs at their sides should never be used for this purpose. 
Southwestern desert goats make ideal brushers. 

It is generally advisable to dip sheep or lambs being taken out as 
feeders from the market, and if not prepared to do it at home, the pur- 
chaser can have it done at the market at a nominal cost. 

Starting Sheep on Green Feed 

Great care should be exercised in starting sheep or lambs on green 
feed. In most sections of the range country it gets pretty dry during 
the summer months and the grass is short, although good. Placing 
these sheep on rank, green feed, especially after they have had no feed 
at all for twenty-four to thirty-six hours, is likely to produce disastrous 
results. Sheep should first be placed in a dry lot and given all the good 
hay they can eat. Next morning they can be turned out for a couple 
of hours and then brought back on the dry feed again. This should 
continue for about a week, extending the time a little longer each day. 
Scours, caused by sheep gorging themselves on green feed, should 
receive immediate attention, and the only cure is to place them on dry 
feed until the scours are dried up. If sheep that have the scours are 
allowed to run on green feed they will get very weak, and may die. 



Field Feeding 
Grain: It's Importance 



51 



The writer has always believed that sheep should be brought to a 
lot near the barn yard at night. It gives the feeder an opportunity 




Western Lambs Coming in From the Cornfield to Receive Their Bite of Mixed Grain and 

to be Yarded for the Night 

to inspect them carefully, as he should, to weigh them to note their 
progress and to count them. These things should be done from time 
to time. Even though the feed in the field is excellent, it has been my 
experience that the feeder who gives his sheep or lambs grain each 
evening, even if only a little taste, is always well repaid for doing so. 
They will be at the gate each evening to get it. and it will quiet them 
so they will lie down and- fatten. Men who practise yarding their sheep 
at night get about two pounds gain to one by the fellow who leaves 
them in the field at night. Feed troughs must also be kept well cleaned, 
and any left overs given to the hogs. When troughs get dirty they 
should be given a thorough scrubbing with lime water. 

Number to Be Shipped in Car 

The feeder should bear in mind that he cannot load as many large 
sheep in a car as small ones. In taking feeding lambs out, generally 
from three hundred to three hundred and fifty fifty-five to sixty pound 
lambs can be loaded in a thirty-six foot, double deck car. More close 
wooled lambs can be loaded than open wooled lambs. One double or 
two single loads going out will make three decks going back to market. 
Overloading should be avoided. Hundreds of thousands of dollars in 
dead and excessive shrink is suff"ered every year through overloading. 



52 



Practical Sheep Husbandry 



In shipping to market it is generally safe to load wooled sheep into a 

thirty-six foot, single deck car as follows: 

120 to 130 75-lb. to 85-lb. lambs 

130 to 140 65-lb. to 75-lb. lambs 

100 to 110 115-lb. to 130-lb. sheep 

110 to 120 100-lb. to 110-lb. sheep 

Clipped sheep or lambs can be loaded ten to fifteen heavier to the 

deck. It is very seldom sheep can be safely loaded to the full weight 

capacity of the car. 

Sorting for the Market 

In preparing sheep or lambs for market, it is a rare thing for all 
the sheep and lambs to take to the feed at the same time or eat the same 
amount. The stronger will crowd the weaker away and take their 
feed, therefore part of them will get fat and be ready for market before 
they are all ready. So it is advisable where two or more decks are 
being fed for market, to sort off a load or so as fast as they become fat 
and market them. To do this, crowd them all in a tight lot, and then 
go through them carefully, handling lamb after lamb. Use the index 
finger and get well through the wool half way down on the side, and 
then with a sweeping motion push the finger back and forth across 
the ribs. If you feel a washboard effect you may know that sheep or 
lamb will not do. Find a sheep or lamb that you are sure is fat, handle 
his ribs thoroughly and get him well fixed in your mind, then use him 




This Man Knows that Sheep and Lambs Must be Made Fat to Meet the Demands of the Market 
and He Is Sorting Off a Load or So for Shipment 

as a model. Sort off a load or more that measures up to his standard. 
Avoid just looking at them and deciding they are fat. The best judges 
of sheep on the market do not dare to trust to sight alone. Lambs or 



Field Feeding 



53 



sheep good enough for the market also have fat, thick tails. After 
becoming well acquainted with the quality of flesh and you are con- 
vinced some of them will do, then you may sort them off by hand. 

Cutting Chute 

It is much easier, however, to obtain a few pieces of carpenter's 
chalk, and as fast as a lamb is found to be fat, put a small chalk mark 
on his head or across his back; or chalk the ones which are not fat. 
Build a cutting chute in front of a small gate, so in swinging the gate, 
sheep coming towards it may be cut in or out. This is generally easy to 
accomplish, and often a temporary chute can be built by arranging loose 
gates or feed troughs. Sheep always run better if they are driven 
towards an opening, or the light. 

Flock Must Receive Kind Treatment 

If a stockman must get angry, he should do it out in the field some- 
where all alone, where he can throw mud to his heart's content and 
not hurt anything but himself. To become angry at a dumb animal is. 
really very foolish. Whenever I drive by a farm and see sleek, well 
kept stock everywhere, I say to myself, a fine, even tempered man lives 
there, for an angry, high tempered man and fat well kept stock posi- 
tively do not go together. 




Native Lambs That Have Been Docked and Castrated and are Fat, Ready for the Market 



54 



Practical Sheep Husbandry 




Such Storehouses for Feed are FounJ on Many of the Best Farms These Days 

"No doubt great imprcvenr^ents will be mcde in the construction of the sUo and the method of 
putting up the silage and caring fcr it, dvrlng the t:me it is being fed. There can be no doubt 
that the silo is a wonderful invention and thit it is here to stay. It is a safety valve and a 
method of insurance during drouth or short crops the following year, and has been proven prac- 
tical and the feed eccncmical. 

The secret in putting up silage, as in canning fruits or vegetables, is to keep it fresh, sweet 
and pure. If this is done (and fed with all the good, dry roughage sheep or lambs will consume) 
good results are certain to fellow. Bad results from eating sour, canned vegetables do not reflect 
against canning them, but against the method used, or more likely, the carelessness of the can- 
ner. No system ever devised by mcrtal man has been able to keep men from making mistakes, 
and none ever can. Each individual must obtain for himself the knowledge required. 



CHAPTER IV 



DRY LOT OR BARN FEEDING 



Green vs. Matured Feeds 

IT is the contention of the man who feeds exclusively in the barn or 
dry lot, that if he lets all his feed ripen and mature, he gets much 
better results when he is fattening and finishing stock for the market 
than if he feeds the same feeds green in the field. A successful cattle 
feeder said to me, in response to a query put to him in the month of 
June, as to whether he was letting his cattle that he was preparing 




Sheep Being Finished in the Dry Lot for Market 



for market run on the grass : "Indeed I am not ; and if I feed until 
September they won't be put on grass. I can haul feed to them, and I 
don't want them out in a field walking off flesh, for it costs too much 
to put it on." Of course there are lots of good feeds, such as stubble 
fields, forage crops and the like that can be utilized by running sheep 
on them in the field,' but the results obtained by the farmer in the past 
plainly show that the practise of trying to fatten sheep and lambs in 
the field for the market has not proven satisfactory. 



56 



Practical Sheep Husbandry 



Methods Employed by Michigan Feeders 

Possibly, at this time, our best dry-lot or barn feeders are found in 
Michigan. These men do not do much pasturing or field feeding. They 
prefer to grow alfalfa, clover and other good hay in abundance, raise 
what grain they can and buy the balance. They do not feed much 
ensilage or roots, and while they produce a highly finished article, and 
their sheep and lambs dress out well, it is certain they could produce 
their gains more economically if they fed a ration of succulent feeds. 
These men, as a rule, buy lambs and place them directly in the barn, 
and there they remain until they are shipped to market. 

Perhaps I can give the reader a little better idea of the methods 
employed by some of these feeders by relating a little experience of 
mine a few years ago, when visiting some customers. These men 
were quite large operators, and as I had been supplying them with their 
feeding lambs I concluded one week-end to run up and see them, get 
better acquainted, and study their methods, for I had learned that they 
were very good feeders. As I had not advised them of my coming and 
their place was only a short distance from town, I concluded to walk 
out. Coming up to their place and seeing their sheep barns, I jumped 
the fence and walked over to them. When I had reached the barn and 
was proceeding to do some investigating on my own account, out came 
a gentleman from one of the adjoining buildings and asked me my 
business, and what I was doing among the sheep. I told him who 1 
was, and he said: "We do not allow strangers among the sheep, and 
I am the only one allowed to feed and care for them." 



Good Care and Big Gains 

He explained that the quieter the lambs could be kept, the bigger 
gains they would make. He had them under a big open shed or barn, 
with a loft used as a storage place for hay and grain running through 

This enclosed sheep 
barn or shed faces 
south. Combination hay 
and grain racks may be 
built around the walls. 
Windows should be 
hung on center pivots 
and placed at a good 
height above hayracks. 
A small room should be 
boarded off In one cor- 
ner, with stove and cot 
for shepherd's use dur- 
ing lambing time. Note 
wide door, also well 
constructed gate to shut 
sheep in when door is 
open. This barn need 
not be expensive, and 
it can be constructed in 
any size, allowing 12 to 
16 square feet for breed- 
ing ewes, 5 to 8 for 
lambs being prepared 
for market. No pro- 
vision is made for stor- 
ing fed in this enclosed 
shed, and feed must be 
brought from other 
bams. 
Drawn by Jet Wimp 




Dry Lot or Barn Feeding 57 

the center. The roof came well down, I should say about six feet from 
the ground, with the north and west sides loosely boarded to keep out 
the storm. This big shed or barn was divided into small pens, each to 
hold about forty lambs fitting in pretty snug, but with plenty of room 
to move about. Hay racks were built around three sides and a trough 
long enough to accommodate twenty lambs on each side, ran through 
the center, although a good combination hay and grain rack would likely 
have been much better. There was also a trough of fresh water at one 
end. He told me that the lambs were never moved out of these pens 
until they were shipped to market, and that they made a gain per head 
of 10 to 16 pounds a month, over a period of ninety to one hundred and 
twenty days. 

Value of Sheep Fertilizer 

These men had a great deal to say regarding the merits of sheep 
manure as fertilizer. Being raised in the corn belt proper, their land 
did not impress me much, and still these farmers had exceptionally 
good buildings, and they bragged to me about 50 to 60 bushels of corn 
per acre and proportionately good crops of wheat, rye, oats and excel- 
lent clover and alfalfa. The successful methods of feeding sheep fol- 
lowed by these farmers were given as the reasons for the big red barns 
and prosperous looking farm buildings. It is only in recent years that 
some of the corn belt farms have begun to feel the strain of everything 
going off and nothing coming back. Some of these men are finding 
sheep the answer to their problem, and more will turn to them as time 
goes on. 

From Field to Dry Lot 

Among field feeders, only a few get their sheep fat enough, with- 
out finishing them on dry feed. As long as the green feed lasts it is 
all right to let the sheep have the run of the field during the day, but 
just as soon as it is gone, they should be shut up. Sheep will do no 
good running out after the green feed is gone, and will only walk off 
flesh as fast as it is put on, looking for what they cannot find. Sheep 
or lambs running in a field during the winter will eat lots of feed, but 
they will not get fat. 

Shelter, and How to Feed 

Sheep or lambs being fed do not need much housing, and a good 
shed to protect them from cold, rains and severe storms is sufficient. 
They can be fed in an open lot, but they should have some shelter, and 
hay racks especially should be in the dry. Lot should be high and dry, 
and separate from cattle and horses that will tramp it up and get it 
muddy. Sheep should be fed regularly, night and morning, and should 
always be driven out of the lot before the grain is placed in the troughs. 
After the grain is equally distributed in all the troughs, the gate can be 
opened and the sheep let in. After a few times the feeder will notice 
that every lamb goes directly to his own place at the trough. It only 
takes a few minutes for each lamb to clean up his share, hence the 



58 



Practical Sheep Husbandry 



importance of letting them all in at the same time, thereby giving each 
lamb an equal chance at the feed. 




This Shed Can Be Used When Feeding in an Open Lot. It Should be Open to the Sun. It is Inex- 
pensive and Can Be Made in Any Length or Width 

Rationing Sheep and Lambs 

Great care should be exercised in starting sheep or lambs on feed. 
Just a sprinkle of shelled corn and oats, or whatever grains are to be 
given, should be put in the trough for the first week, until all the sheep 
have taken to the feed, and then it can gradually be increased from 
day to day. Patience is important, and it generally takes thirty to forty 
days to get sheep on full feed. It is better to give too little than too 
much grain, especially during the period of working them on feed. It 
is really up to the feeder to watch his sheep closely, as no two lots will 
take to the feed just alike. Weather conditions should be closely watched. 
On bright, crisp days sheep will take more feed, and in soft, muggy 
weather the grain ration often has to be decreased. If some get off 
feed, it is best to separate them from the rest and put them out where 
they will get rough feed and exercise for a day or so. It is sometimes 
necessary to take the whole band off grain for a day or so, or greatly 




This Combination Hay and Grain Rack Has Several Advantages. Grain Trough Catches Hay Seed 

and Fine Leaves, Which Sheep Relish. Troughs are Detachable cind Can be 

Removed and Thoroughly Cleaned at Any Time 



Dry Lot or Barn Feeding 



59 



reduce the grain ration. Grain should always be fed first, succulent 
feeds next, and then the dry roughage. 

In estimating the amount of trough room necessary, 12 inches can 
be allowed for feeding lambs and up to 18 inches for breeding ewes. It 
is quite necessary that enough trough space be provided so all can get 
to it at the same time. 

The following table will show the amount of feed to be given daily 
to a 55-pound to 65-pound feeding lamb over a period of 120 days. This 
table cannot be followed exactly, as some lambs will take to the feed 
faster than others, but it is given to show how sheep are gradually 
placed on feed. 







Ration No. 1 






Week 


Shelled Corn, 


lbs. Oats, lbs. 


Clover Hay All They ( 


1 




.10 






2 


.20 


.15 






3 


.40 


.25 






4 


.70 


.20 






5 


.85 


.10 






6 


1.00 








7 


1.20 








8 


1.30 








9 


1.40 








10 


1.50 








11 


1.60 








12 


1.70 








13 


1.80 








.14 


1.80 








15 


1.85 








16 


1.90 


Ration No. 2 




Alfalfa 


Week 


Shelled Corn, lbs 


;. Oats, lbs. Corn 


Silage, lbs. 


Hay, lbs, 


1 


.10 


.10 


.30 


1.50 


2 


.20 


.20 


.60 


1.30 


3 


.30 


.30 


.80 


1.20 


4 


.50 


.20 


1.00 


1.10 


5 


.70 

Cott 


.10 

on Seed Meal, lbs. 


1.20 


1.00 


6 


.90 


.05 


1.30 


1.00 


7 


1.00 


.06 


1.50 


.90 


8 


1.10 


.07 


1.60 


.80 


9 


1.15 


.10 


1.75 


.70 


10 


1.20 


.12 


1.90 


.60 


11 


1.25 


.12 


2.00 


.55 


12 


1.30 


.14 


2.30 


.50 


13 


1.40 


.15 


2.40 


.50 


14 


1.45 


.16 


2.50 


.50 


15 


1.50 


.18 


2.60 


.50 


16 


1.60 


.20 


2.70 


.50 



Many good feeders will work lambs on full feed much sooner than 
is indicated in the above table, but the feeder who wishes to accomplish 
this must watch closely night and morning, so he will note quickly any 
irregularities and adjust his rations accordingly. I advise anyone, not 



60 



Practical Sheep Husbandry 



thoroughly versed in sheep feeding, to keep before his sheep or lambs 
at all times all the good, dry roughage they will consume. Then by 
careful observation the feeder can learn the amount of succulent feeds 
they will eat, as well as the grain ration required. Of course, during 
the period of working sheep on full feed, one must be careful not to feed 
too much grain ; but if plenty of good, dry roughage is kept before them, 
they will do their own rationing to a big extent. 

Roughages Compared 

The following table taken from "Feeds and Feeding," by Henry, 
gives the digestive nutrients in various roughages for sheep. 

Total dry 
material in Crude Carbohyd- Nutritive 

Dry Roughages 100 lbs., lbs. protein, lbs. rates, lbs. Fat, lbs. Total, lbs. rate 1, lbs. 

Clover red, all analysis. .. .87.1 7.6 39.3 1.8 50.9 5.0 

Clover aisike all analysis. .87.7 7.9 36.9 1.1 47.3 6.4 

Clover Monmouth red.... 81. 3 6.4 37.2 1.8 47.6 3.9 

Alfalfa, all analysis 91.4 10.6 39.0 0,9 51.6 3.6 

Soy bean hay 91.4 11.7 39.2 1.2 53.6 3.0 

Cow-pea in bloom, early 

pod 89.4 12.6 34.6 1.3 50.1 22.7 

Corn stover, corn removed, 

dry 90.6 2.2 47.8 1.0 52.2 21.0 

Corn stover, medium in 

water 81.0 2.1 42.4 0.7 46.1 23.2 

Corn stover, light in water. 59.0 1.4 31.1 0.6 33.9 27.1 

Kafir stover, dry 83.7 1.7 43.1 1.3 47.7 10.6 

Red top, all analysis 90.2 4.6 45.9 1.2 53.2 15.2 

Succulent Feeds Compared 

Beet pulp, wet 9.3 0.5 6.5 0.2 7.4 13.8 

Beet, common 13.0 0.9 9.1 0.1 10.2 10.3 

Mangel 9.4 0.8 6.4 0.1 7.4 8.2 

Rutabago 10.9 1.0 7.7 0.3 9.4 8.4 

Corn well matured, recent 

analysis 26.3 1.1 15.0 0.7 17.7 15.1 

Sorgum 22.8 0.6 11.6 0.5 13.3 21.2 

Pea canning refuse 23.2 1.6 11.6 0.8 15.0 8.4 

Henry reports test made at the Michigan station on six (6) lots 
of ten (10) lambs each of a 75 pound average over a period of 98 days 
to test the value of various roughage. 

Each lamb received 1.4 lb. shelled corn and 1.2 lb, rutabagoes to- 
gether with dry fodder as shown below : 

Daily allow- \v. daily Av. total Feed Given for 100-lb. Gain 

ance of dry Corn, Dry Fodder, Roots, 

Lot roughage, lbs. gain, lbs. gain, lbs. lbs. lbs. lbs. 

1 Clover hay 1.2 0.33 32.4 423 362 365 

2 Alfalfa hay 1.3 0.35 34.4 395 373 340 

3 Millet hay 1.0 0.26 25.8 523 372 453 

4 Corn stover 1.4 0.31 30.2 451 462 387 

5 Oat straw 1.4 0.29 28.5 478 489 411 

6 Bean hay 1.5 0.30 29.6 463 488 395 



Dry Lot or Barn Feeding 61 

Alfalfa hay in this trial proved slightly superior to clover hay. 
Millet hay gave poor returns. Corn stover, cut into 1.5 to 3 in. pieces 
with a silage cutter, made nearly as large daily gains as Lot 1 fed 
clover hay, and consumed only a little more grain. This shows good 
stover has a high value for lambs. Oat straw did not prove equal to 
alfalfa or clover hay, still did very well and made economical gains. 
It is added, however, that the good showing made on corn stover and 
oat straw was made possible because roots were fed with them. Auth- 
or's note, "Good matured corn silage would take the place of roots." 

Advantages of Agricultural Stations 

The average farmer I am sure does not realize the great opportuni- 
ties and advantages that rightfully belong to him. such as the excellent 
State Agricultural Colleges, the Department of Agriculture at Wash- 
ington, and other sources of information. Almost any kind of informa- 
tion the farmer or feeder may need can be had by applying to these 
institutions. Feeding tables, the values of his different feeds, diagrams 
for farm buildings, feed troughs and the like can be had, if not at one 
place, then another, free for the asking. I wish also to say that if the 
reader wants a more detailed work on feeds and feeding, there are 
several books that are very good. 

Kinds and When to Buy 

If the reader has in mind buying lambs early in the fall to be run 
through on green feed and roughage until January or February, and 
then placing them on feed for the late spring market, he should buy 
light 40 to 50 pound lambs, thin in flesh, so they will not become too 
heavy for desirable weights when fat. Generally, however, men who 
feed for the late winter and spring months buy their stuff in October, 
November and December. If possible, they buy stuff direct from the 
range, but during November and December there are always a great 
many sheep and lambs dumped on the market from the corn belt states 
that are fleshy, and just right for a 60 to 90 day feed. These sheep or 
lambs, in most instances, are all right and will do fine. There are also 
feeders who watch the market closely, and during the early winter 
months buy half fat and pretty good lambs, put them on a good hay and 
grain ration and finish them in 30 to 60 days, getting a big gain and 
raising the quality in value possibly $2.00 to $3.00 per hundred weight. 

Shearing and Marketing Clipped Lambs 

Later, towards spring, still another class of operators come on the 
scene. They buy lambs or sheep, generally lambs, that will shear a 
good fleece of wool. They sometimes buy range hay-feds that are gen- 
erally pretty fleshy, but not quite good enough for the killers, or lambs 
made pretty fat on hay and grain, but maybe impossible to finish be- 
cause of ticks or lice, because they were not dipped in the fall. We 
call these men the shearers. They shear these lambs in March and 
April, and send them back as clipped lambs in April, May and June. 
These men are generally our best feeders, and here again is where the 



62 Practical Sheep Husbandry 

Michigan type of feeder is a big operator. Taking a heavy coat of wool 
from a lamb, and along with it his unwelcome companions, and plac- 
ing him on a choice hay and grain ration, he gains very fast, often 
putting on the weight of his fleece in two or three weeks time. These 
men also play for a raise in the market, for it is during April, May and 
June that we have the most meager receipts, therefore highest prices. 
There are a few farmers who make it a business of buying light 
lambs in the fall, and running them through the winter on cheap rough- 
age, feeding a little grain late in the winter, shearing early in April 
and turning out on the grass. This system is not successful, unless a 
grain ration is given with the grass. I would also caution the young 
feeder regarding feeding sheep or lambs on grass in the early spring. 
Grass at that time is not very nutritious, and sheep or lambs turned 
on this kind of feed soon flesh up and may look pretty fat, but the flesh 
is soft. Shipping such fleshed stuff to market, a heavy shrink is cer- 
tain, and often an owner will hardly know his own stuff". The flesh 
must be made hard and firm, and grass alone will not do it. 

Sheep Fattening in Great Britain 

From some published sheep feeding trials in Great Britain, num- 
bering 194, Henry, a noted authority on feeds, selects the following 
examples to show the rations used by the British farmers for fatten- 
ing sheep. Mr. Henry reports that it is noted in these various reports 
that clover hay proved extremely useful, not only because of its nitro- 
genous matter, but also because of its high content of lime, compared 
with phosphoric acid. Linseed cake produced a given increase with 
less than the average amount of feed, and the carcasses dressed above 
the average. Cotton cake gave the average results. Oats on the whole 
were unsatisfactory for producing fat. Barley was satisfactory, unless 
used in large quantities, when it seemed to have an injurious eff'ect. 
Wheat gave good results. Malt showed little or no superiority over 
barley. Dried brewers' grains and dried distillers' grain proved very 
satisfactory. Mangels gave better results than sweeds, and stored 
sweeds gave better results than frosted sweeds. The best results fol- 
lowed feeding from 95 to 100 pounds of roots weekly per 100 pounds of 
live sheep. While the English farmer gets good results from feeding 
large quantities of roots, the American farmer had best limit the root 
ration to from 4 to 5 lbs. per head daily and even less. 

Rations Used in Great Britain in Fattening Sheep and Lambs 

LenKth of 
No. of feeding Average Average Av. daily Av. total 

Animals period, days ration, per wt., lbs. gain, lbs. gain, lbs. 

head, lbs. 

20 102 Linseed cake 0.3 

Barley 0.3 

Clover hay 0.4 

Sweeds 22.9 128 0.43 42 

10 108 Linseed cake 0.7 

Molasses 0.1 

Clover hay 2.1 

Wheat straw 0.3 130 0.24 27 

8 121 Cotton cake 1.6 

Hay 1.0 



Dry Lot or Barn Feeding 



63 



10 


60 


10 


35 


19 


105 


18 
38 


105 
93 



15 



19 



72 



105 



Roots 15.0 132 0.33 41 

Corn 0.6 

Oats ■ 0.4 

Sweeds 14.8 108 0.32 14 

Cotton seed cake 0.6 

Dried distillers grain 0.4 

Turnips ..15.0 109 0.29 10 

Com 0.7 

Hay 0.5 

Sweeds 11.5 97 0.33 35 

Linseed cake 0.7 

Bombay cotton cake 0.3 

Sweeds 12.8 99 0.36 37 

Dried distillers grain 0.3 

Hay 0.4 

Sweeds 16.3 119 0.40 36 

Cotton cake 0.3 

Corn 0.3 

Clover hay 0.8 

Sweeds 13.0 61 0.19 14 

Hay 0.7 

Sweeds 15.3 91 0.21 22 



The almost universal feeding of oil cake and roots in great quantities 
to fatten sheep by the British farmer is shown in this table. 

Yield and Dry Matter Per Acre in Various Root Crops 

Through the corn belt region and among the larger class of farm- 
ers, corn ensilage is no doubt cheaper, labor considered, than are roots. 
But in cooler climates, where the season is not long enough for corn to 
mature, roots can be grown, and make excellent sheep feed. Roots are 
especially attractive to the small farmer, where every square rod of 
ground must produce to its limit. The following table, given by Henry, 
will show the yields of the various root crops per acre. 



N. Y. (Cornell) Station 

Green Wt. Dry Matter 

Tons Lbs. 

Mangels 39.7 8,400 

Sugar mangels 28.1 6,400 

Sugar beets (swedes) 28.3 8,000 

Rutabagas 26.3 5,000 

Hybrid turnips 27.1 5,200 

Turnips 16.8 3,600 

Carrots 18.5 4,400 

Parsnips 8.3 3,800 

Kohlrabi 23.4 4,600 

Cabbage 36.4 4,600 

Dwarf Essex rape .... 

Thousand headed kale .... 

Potatoes 6.0 2,540 

(200 bushels) 

Questions and Suggestions 



Ontario Agr. College 

Green Wt. Dry Matter 

Tons Lbs. 



23.7 


4,440 


24.0 


5,460 


14.9 


4,890 


19.6 


4,260 


'27.2 


5,160 


27.5 


6,460 


8.3 


2,750 


15.8 


2,819 


23.1 


4,102 


17.2 


5,758 


17.7 


4,000 


6.0 


2,540 



The writer will be glad to answer questions asked by anyone in 
reference to raising, feeding or handling sheep, or how best to utilize 
any class of green feed, the amount of grain ration required to go with 



64 



Practical Sheep Husbandry 



it to produce a finished article; also the relative value of any one feed 
or class of feed will be furnished on request. 

In my endeavor to assist the layman to diagnose and solve his prob- 
lem I will set forth the following questions, which should be read over 
carefully and answered correctly, otherwise, of course, the advice given 
might be wrong. The feeder should state how sheep or lambs have 
been handled during the six months, or time they have been in present 
owner's possession. 

Do you like sheep? 

How many sheep have you? 

State kind, age and breed. 

Ram grade or pure blood? 

How much pasture and how divided ? 

How long have sheep been on this pasture? State kind, wild or tame, 
woods or prairie, high or low land, also give names of different kinds of 
grasses or weeds. 

Water, state whether creek or tanks, and if tanks, how high are 
sides and can the sheep drink out of them? Pure or dirty r 
Salt, is it kept before them all the time? 

Fences, good or bad; can sheep crawl through them and injure 
themselves ? 

Are dogs chasing or killing your sheep? 

Are ewes and bucks running together or separate? 

Are ewes with lamb, or are lambs running at their sides? 

Lot dry or muddy? 

How about shelter and bedding? 

Barn or shed dark or light, dry or damp, and how ventilated? 

Are sheep allowed to run with colts, calves or other mischievous 
animals? 

What constitutes your roughage? State fully grade, quality and 
kind, also whether they have free access to it, or it is rationed to them. 

Do your sheep get timothy hay? 
They should not. 

What grain? State kind, qual- 
ity, quantity, whether rationed or 
fed in self feeders. 

Do different men feed the sheep 
or lambs from day to day? 

Is anyone allowed to go among 
sheep that are being fattened for 
market ? 

Are your sheep penned or 
housed at night? 

When were they dipped last, and how many times. 

When tagged or dung clipped from around their tails? Maggots 
may collect if this is not attended to. 




Several of These Salt Troughs Should be 
Scattered Through the Pasture 



Dry Lot or Barn Feeding 65 

Are they allowed to run in fields or pastures where there is high 
grass, weeds and the like on rainy, stormy days? 

Are your sheep kept on closely cropped pastures during hot sum- 
mer months? 

How long do you keep them on each pasture at a time? 

How about shade? 

How often do you count and weigh your sheep? 

Are your ewes all giving a good flow of milk? 

Is she owning her lambs and allowing them to suckle? 

Are her teats in good shape, or are the lambs biting them? 

Do you shear before or after lambing? 

Have you handled your sheep recently to ascertain whether they 
are fat? 

Do you know how to tell a fat sheep? 

Are sheep a major part of your business? 

Are your sheep that you are preparing for market gaining three- 
eighths to one-half pound each daily? 

Did you read this book over carefully? 



66 



Practical Sheep Husbandry 




A GOOD CARCASS 



No. 1 shows the leg, used as a roast. No. 2 is the loin and No. 3 

the ribs. These two cuts furnish chops that are best broiled or 
roast for the oven. No. 4 is the shoulder, from which may be cut 

a few chops, a stew from the neck and a shoulder that may be 
opened and rolled into a very choice roast. No. 5 is the breast, best 
used for stew, but a possible roasting piece. — Courtesy Illinois 

Agricultural College. 



CHAPTER V 



PREPARING AND SERVING MUTTON AND LAMB FOR 

THE TABLE 



The Producer Should Boost His Own Business 

THROUGH many rural districts, and even in good sized towns through 
the Central and Western states, it is almost impossible at this time 
to get an order of mutton or lamb served, when ordered, at the average 
hotel. The farmer's wife, although she may be a very proficient cook, 
seldom knows how to prepare mutton or lamb so it is appetizing. 

Not long ago I asked a traveling man if he ordered mutton or lamb 
when in the country districts, and he replied : "No, I do not, for I have 
learned better. There is as much difference as day and night in the 
ways it is served to you. There is no food more delicious, when it is 
properly cooked, seasoned and served, but deliver me if the chef does 
not know his business." 

Such a state of affairs is a crime committed against the sheep busi- 
ness, and the following remarks and recipes furnished by the United 
States Government are offered in the hope that they may help to bring 
mutton and lamb into more general favor. 

PALATABLE AND NUTRITIOUS FOODS 

Mutton has from early times been a popular food both in the Orient and among 
western nations. The ease with which the sheep is raised and the fact that its flesh 
is not, like some other meats, excluded on religious grounds from the dietary of 
any large group of people, combine with its palatability to bring it into widespread 
favor. The terms "lamb" and "mutton" are somewhat loosely used to designate 
the meat obtained from the younger and older animals. In some localities mutton is 
used to apply to the flesh of all but young lambs; in others its use is limited to the 
flesh of full-grown sheep. The latter is perhaps the commonest usage in the United 
States. 

The preference for lamb or for mutton, like the use of the tenns, varies with the 
locality. Of late years a preference for lamb to older mutton has been noticeable, 
particularly in the United States. In England, on the other hand, mutton has always 
been more commonly used. The popularity of one or the other will probably always 
be determined by taste, fashion, or market conditions, for both are palatable and 
nutritious foods. 

The general belief that mutton and lamb are wholesome has been strengthened 
recently by such work as that of the United States Department of Agriculture, 
whose reports of meat inspection show that it has been necessary to reject relatively 
few mutton carcasses as unfit for food, and that the sheep is particularly free from 
diseases which render meat undesirable. 

PREPARING AND SERVING MUTTON AND LAMB FOR THE TABLE 

Relative Economy In the Use of Mutton 

While mutton and beef do not differ materially in percentage composition or di- 
gestibility, mutton has an advantage in that it is capable of somewhat more economi- 
cal use. The mutton carcass, unlike the beef carcass, is of such size that a quarter 



68 Practical Sheep Husbandry 

or a half, either of which supplies a variety of cuts, can be conveniently utilized in a 
household of moderate size with ordinary refrigerating facilities, and the price per 
pound is commonly less when the meat is bought in this way. There is a certain 
advantage, too, in the fact that the leg, which has the smallest percentage of waste 
of any of the cuts of mutton, is of suitable size for family use, for a piece of meat 
which has not been cut up keeps better than one which has been cut. On the other 
hand, the rather general belief, which, however, seems unfounded, that all kinds of 
mutton fat are unsuitable for culinary purposes, has tended somewhat to an un- 
economical use of this meat. 

How to Flavor and Utilize Mutton Fat 

One of the most satisfactory methods found is to mix some leaf lard with the 
suet and render with milk. The suet and leaf lard mixture is finely divided by 
passing it through a meat grinder, and then heated in a double boiler with about 
one-half of its weight of whole milk. The fat can quickly be released from the tis- 
sues, and, when allowed to cool, forms a cake on the surface of the liquid, which is 
easily removed. Mutton suet and leaf lard, fresh and of good quality, "tried out' 
in this way, possesses little, if any, of the characteristic mutton odor and flavor. 
The best results are obtained with a mixture of two parts of mutton suet and one 
of leaf lard, finely ground, and rendered with whole milk in proportion of V2 pint 
to 2 pounds of the mixed mutton and lard. This fat has an exceptionally good odor 
and flavor, which it will retain when kept for weeks in an ordinary refrigerator. II 
is also of good color and texture, being softer than the mutton fat alone, owing to 
the milk fat and lard which it contains. If such fats are rendered in an open kettle, 
a moderate heat is desirable, since they "burn on" very readily. Rendering in a 
double boiler is much more convenient. 

Another way of utilizing mutton fat for frying and other culinary purposes is 
in the form of savory fat, similar to that made from beef drippings and other fats. 
For each pound of the carefully rendered mutton fat, allow an onion, a sour apple, 
and a teaspoon of ground thyme or mixed herbs tied up in a small piece of cloth. 
Cook these in the fat, at a low temperature in the oven or on top of the stove, until 
the onion and apple are thoroughly browned. Then strain off the fat, which will 
be found well seasoned and may be used in place of butter or other savory fat for 
seasoning or for warming of potatoes, cooking vegetables, and in other ways. 

CARE OF MUTTON IN THE HOME 

Because of the facility with which mutton absorbs odors and flavors, special 
care should be taken of it in the home. When it comes into the house, it should be 
wiped thoroughly with a damp cloth, and all portions that have the slightest unpleas- 
ant odor about them should be cut off. Such portions are most likely to be found 
where the layer of meat is thin as, for example, on the lower end of the leg, on the 
flank, or on the ribs. When a large piece of mutton is bought, these facts should be 
kept in mind in determining which parts should be used first. It is well, for example, 
to remove the flank end of the loin and part of the rib bones first, and use them for 
soups or stews. The removal of the membrane and the red skin from the sur- 
face of the meat before it is cooked is also desirable. In roasting mutton, many 
housekeepers believe that it is well to keep the meat well up from the pan by means 
of a rack, for if this is not done the fat of the meat is likely to become scorched 
and to affect the flavor of the meat itself. 

METHODS OF COOKING MUTTON 

In the following pages are given a large number of recipes which have been 
brought together from many sources. Most of them are for standard dishes. Some 
of them, however, are for dishes which, though highly esteemed in other countries, 
are not well known in the United States, and a few are for rather complicated dishes. 
The insertion of these recipes for unfamiliar and elaborate dishes should not be taken 
to indicate that a greater value is placed upon them than upon mutton prepared by 
the simple methods of boiling, roasting, or broiling. They are included because tests 
have shown them to be palatable, and because a knowledge of many ways of pre- 
paring any given food is an easy way of securing variety in the diet. More necessary 
than to know how to prepare mutton in a variety of ways is to keep in mind the 



Preparing of Mutton and Lamb 69 

essential factors which contribute to its satisfactory preparation in simple ways, 
i. e., the careful removal of all portions having an unpleasant odor, the mastery of 
the art of preparing well a simple gravy, and care to keep hot such dishes as are 
intended to be served hot. 

Even if we recognize the advantage of simple methods skillfully followed out 
over complicated methods, we must recognize also that if a greater number of 
modes of preparation were understood in this country and if a greater variety of 
savory sauces were used the possibilities of serving mutton in acceptable forms 
would be greatly increased. 

That quality of mutton which makes it absorb odors and flavors easily is an 
advantage in cooking, for its own flavor combines easily with that of the various 
seasonings in cooking, and, for this reason, the meat yields itself readily to the prep- 
aration of savory dishes. The experience of cooks has, in fact, taught two general 
ways of cooking mutton, one of which consists in developing its own flavor by cook- 
ing it alone, and the other in uniting it with highly seasoned vegetables or other 
substances in such a way as to modify its flavor and to produce a new flavor by the 
combination. The two methods are well illusti'ated by recipes for boiling mutton. 
The first of these directs that it be cooked in water unseasoned by other substances 
than salt; the second, that such substance as herbs, onions, or garlic be rubbed into 
the meat and bound closely to its surface by means of a cloth before the meat is put 
into water. 

METHODS OF MEASURING 

The measurements in all cases are level. A teaspoonful of an ingredient, for 
example, means enough to come up to the edge of the bowl of the spoon. Such an 
amount is conveniently measured by first taking up more than is needed and then 
pushing off any in excess by means of a knife, allowing the edge of the knife to rest 
on the spoon. 

MAKING OF SOUPS AND BROTHS 

An object to be kept in mind in the making of broths and soups is to get as much 
as possible of the flavoring bodies and of the nutritive material of the meat into 
solution or suspension in the water. This is accomplished, first, by dividing the 
meat into small pieces in order to increase the surface exposed, and, second, by 
keeping the temperature low in order to prevent the proteid from coagulating. When 
the water in which the meat has been soaked is brought to the temperature of about 
52° C, the dissolved proteids begin to harden and rise to the surface in the form of 
scum. This scum is often removed for esthetic purposes, but it should be remem- 
bered that the effect of doing this is to reduce the nutritive value of the broth. 
Whenever there is the slightest doubt about the quality or the freshness of the 
meat, however, the removal of the scum is recommended, for under these circum- 
stances its removal seems to improve the flavor. 

Mutton Juice and "Extract" 

Mutton juice or "extract" may be prepared according to any of the ways recom- 
mended for beef juice or homemade "extract." One way is to broil a piece of the 
meat on both sides, and then cut it into small pieces and extract the juice, for in- 
stance, by pressing it with a lemon squeezer or between two plates with a heavy 
weight on top. The object of broiling has usually been said to be "to start the flow 
of the juice." A less concentrated extract is made by cutting the meat into small 
pieces and cooking it in water with the precaution mentioned above — that of keeping 
the water below 130 F. This is most conveniently done in a double boiler or in a 
glass fruit jar immersed in water. 

Mutton Broth 

3 pounds mutton from the neck. [ 3 tablespoons rice or barley. 

2 quarts cold water. I 1 teaspoon salt. 

Wipe the meat, remove the skin and fat, and cut the meat into small pieces. Put 
into the kettle with bones, and cover with the water. Heat gradually to the boiling 



70 



Practical Sheep Husbandry 



point and season with salt and with pepper if liked. Cook slowly until the meat is 
tender, strain, and remove the fat. Reheat to boiling point, add the rice or barley, 
and cook until the rice or barley is tender. If barley is used, soak it over night 
in cold water. 



Mutton Soup 



4 pounds mutton from the neck. 

3 quarts cold water. 

3 carrots. 

2 turnips. 

1 small cabbage or part of a 

cabbage. 
1 stalk celery. 



larger 



Few sprigs parsley. 
1 medium-sized onion. 
6 cloves. 
1 sprig thyme. 

1 sprig marjoram. 

2 tablespoons salt. 



Wipe the meat carefully, cut into small pieces, and cover with the water. Bring 
very slowly to the boiling point and skim. Add the vegetables cut into small pieces 
and other seasoning, and cook slowly for three hours. Strain, cool, and remove the 
fat. Serve either clear, with rice, or with the vegetables finely chopped. 

MUTTON STEWS 

In preparing mutton for stews, several different plans may be followed. The 
meat may be cut into small pieces and cooked in water, or it may be first browned 
in fat before being cooked in water. Another way is to mince the raw meat, cook in 
a little fat, and then combine with vegetables. This is suitable when the vegetables 
used are very juicy as in Minced Mutton with Eggplant. 

Scotch Broth 



1 quart rich mutton broth free from fat. 
1 carrot. 

1 turnip. 

2 onions. 



4 stalks celery. 

2 tablespoons butter or mutton fat. 

2 tablespoons flour. 

Salt. 



The liquor in which mutton is boiled may be used in preparing this dish, but it 
will usually need to be boiled down. Cut the vegetables into small pieces and cook 
them slowly in the stock for two hours. Rub the flour and butter together and add 
to them a little of the hot broth. Stir until the mixture is smooth, then add it to 
the broth. 

When no mutton stock is on hand, prepare it from 2 pounds of mutton from the 
forequarter. Remove the meat from the bone and cut into small pieces and, for 
convenience, tie the bones in a small piece of cloth and cook in the same water in 
which the meat is cooked. In this case, serve the meat with the broth. 

Ragout of Mutton With Farina Balls 



1 V2 pounds neck of mutton cut into small 

pieces. 
1 tablespoon butter. 
1 tablespoon flour. 
1 onion cut into small pieces. 

1 carrot cut into small pieces. 

2 CUDS hot water. 



teaspoon salt. 

teaspoon pepper. 

bay leaf. 

sprig parsley. 

cloves. 

cup fresh peas or 



V2 can peas. 



Put the butter into a frying pan. When melted add the flour and let it brown. 
Then add all the other ingredients except the peas, and cook slowly for two hours, 
A short time before serving, add the peas. 

Serve with farina bails made as follows: 



1 cup farina. 

1 cup milk. 

% teaspoon salt. 



Vs teaspoon pepper. 
Few drops onion juice. 
Yolk 1 egg. 



Preparing of Mutton and Lamb 



71 



Cook farina and milk in the double boiler one hour. Add seasonings and 
well-beaten yolk. Stir well and cool. When cold, roll into balls. Dip in egg 
and crumbs and fry in deep fat. Rice may be used in a similar way. 

Ragout of Mutton With Summer Squash 



2 pounds mutton from the shoulder or 

breast. 
1 onion. 
1 medium-sized summer squash. 

1 sweet green pepper. 

2 stalks celery. 



4 medium-sized potatoes. 

^/4 teaspoon powdered thyme. 

1/4 teaspoon powdered marjoram. 

Bit of bay leaf. 

Garlic. (See below.) 

Salt. 



Cut the meat into small cubes and place in a deep baking dish. Cook in a 
hot oven until well browned. Add the onion cut into cubes, the summer squash 
sliced, sweet peppers and celery cut into small pieces, and the other seasonings. 
Sufficient flavor of garlic will be obtained by rubbing the dish with a clove of 
garlic or by adding a very thin slice from one of the cloves. Cover the dish 
and allow the vegetables to cook for an hour with the meat, without the addi- 
tion of water. Then add the potatoes, cut into slices. Cover the dish again and 
cook for another hour. 

Ragout of Mutton With Eggplant 

Follow the directions given in the above recipe, substituting an eggplant for 
the summer squash. 



Syrian Ste'w 



2 cups raw mutton cut into cubes. 

2 tablespoons fat. 

3 tablespoons flour. 
2 cups string beans. 



2 onions. 

2 cups tomatoes. 

Salt. 

Water. 



Dredge the meat with the flour and brown it in the fat. Put all the ingre- 
dients in a stewpan, scraping from the frying pan all of the flour and fat, and 
add enough water barely to cover. Cook slowly until the meat is tender. 

Haricot of Mutton 



2 tablespoons butter or drippings. 
2 tablespoons chopped onions. 
1 V2 pounds lean mutton cut in 2-inch 
pieces. 



2 cups water. 
Salt and pepper. 
Lima beans. 
Chopped parsley. 



Fry the onions in the butter, remove the onions, add the meat, and brown ; 
cover with water and cook until the meat is tender. Serve with a border of 
Lima beans, seasoned with salt, pepper, butter, and a little chopped parsley. 
Fresh, canned, dried, or evaporated Lima beans may be used in making this 
dish. 



Stewed Sheep's Hearts 



2 sheep's hearts. 

2 ounces fat salt pork. 

2 tablespoons minced onion. 

2 tablespoons flour. 



% teaspoon pepper. 
11/^ pints boiling water. 
Salt. 



Split and wash the hearts, season them with the salt and pepper, and roll 
them in the flour. Try out the pork, and add the onions to the pork fat and 
cook them 10 minutes. At the end of that time, remove the pork and onions 
to a stewpan and fry the hearts in the fat. Transfer hearts to the stewpan. 
Rinse the frying pan with the water, which should then be poured over the 
hearts. Use the flour that remains after the hearts are rolled to thicken the 



72 



Practical Sheep Husbandry 



broth. Cook the hearts in the gravy for three hours, being careful to keep the 
temperature just below the boiling point. At serving time, the hearts are usually 
sliced and the gravy poured over them. 



Sheep's Tongues 



6 sheep's tongues. 

2 carrots cut into small pieces. 

1 pint boiling water. 

1 large onion cut into small pieces. 



2 slices bacon. 
V4: cup capers. 

3 small cucumber pickles. 
Salt and pepper. 



Scald and blanch the tongues, removing the skins and then throw the tongues 
into cold water until ready to use. Cut a slice of bacon into fine strips and lay 
them in the bottom of a saucespan ; place over this the lamb tongues seasoned 
with salt and pepper, and over the tongues another layer of bacon in very fine 
strips. Add the minced carrots and onion; salt and pepper again to taste and 
let the tongues simmer for about 15 minutes, and then moisten with about a 
pint of boiling water or broth. Cook slowly about three hours. Then take out 
the tongues, place them on a hot dish, strain the sauce, reheat, and add one- 
fourth cup of capers and three small cucumber pickles, sliced thin. Stir well and 
let the sauce boil up once. Pour over the tongues and serve. 

Boiled Leg of Mutton 

After wiping the meat thoroughly with a damp cloth cover it with water 
which, if haste is an object, should be hot. Cook about 15 minutes for each 
pound, keeping the temperature a little below the boiling point. The proper 
temperature will be indicated by a slight bubbling. When the meat is partly done, 
add the salt and water. 

Boiled Mutton With Vegetables 

To the water in which a leg of mutton is boiled the following may be added: 
2 sliced carrots. 2 stalks celery. 

1 sliced turnip. 1 bay leaf. 

2 sliced onions. 2 cloves. 

The advantage of using these additional substances is that besides flavoring 
the meat and making an attractive garnish for it, they add flavor to the broth 
and thus improve it for use in soups or sauces. 

Boiled Mutton With Sweet Herbs 

After the leg of mutton has been wiped, mix the following and spread over 
the surface. Wrap the meat in a cloth and fasten the cloth about the meat by 
means of a cord or skewers in order to hold the seasonings close to the surface: 



1 clove of garlic, finely chopped. 

1 finely chopped onion. 

1 teaspoon powdered thyme. 



1 teaspoon powdered sweet marjoram. 
1 teaspoon salt. 



Boiled Mutton With Oyster Sauce 



4 pounds mutton from the shoulder. 
1 onion. 



1 pint oysters. 

Salt. 

Bone the mutton and stuff with half the oysters, or make a gash in the meat 
near the bone and insert half the oysters and tie into shape. Half cover the 
meat with water and cook in a closely covered dish for 2 hours. With the 
remaining oysters make the following sauce: 



Oyster Sauce 



2 tablespoons butter or mutton fat. 
1 tablespoon flour. 
% pint oysters. 



V2 cup of the Hqnid in which the mutton 
has been boiled. 



Preparing of Mutton and Lamb 



73 



Drain the oysters and heat and strain the liquor. Wash the oysters, add them 
to the hot oyster liquor and cook until they are plump. Remove the oysters and 
keep warm while making a sauce of the butter, flour, oyster liquor, and mutton 
stock. Add the oysters and season with salt and pepper. 

Steamed Mutton 

Small pieces of mutton may be very satisfactorily prepared by covering the 
surface with powdered or finely chopped seasonings, as suggested in the fore- 
going recipe, and steaming it, or it may be steamed without the seasonsings. 

Sauces for Boiled or Steamed Mutton 



Caper Sauce 



Vs cup butter or mutton fat. 

11/^ cups hot water or mutton broth. 

2 tablespoons flour. 



V2 teaspoon salt. 

V2 cup capers drained from their liquor. 



Melt half the butter or all the mutton fat, add the flour, and cook thoroughly. 
Pour the hot water or stock on gradually. Before serving, add the remaining 
butter (if this is the fat used in preparing the dish) and the capers. If the 
gravy is made somewhat thicker than as above directed it can be spread over 
the surface of the meat. This covers any irregularities in the surface and is 
thought by some people to improve the appearance of the dish. 

Mock Caper Sauce 

For the capers in the above recipe, chopped sour pickles may be substituted. 

Parsley Sauce 

2 tablespoons butter or mutton fat. 1 Salt. 

2 tablespoons flour. Juice of V2 lemon. 

1 cup milk or mutton broth. I 1 tablespoon finely chopped parsley. 

Melt the butter, add the flour, and cook for two or three minutes, stirring 
constantly. Add the milk and cook until the liquid is thickened. Season with 
salt. Just before serving add the lemon juice and parsley. 

Horse-Radish Sauce No. 1 
(For Cold Boiled Mutton) 



2 tablespoons cracker crumbs. 

2 tablespoons butter or mutton fat. 

% cup grated horse-radish root. 



V2 teaspoon salt. 
1 cup milk. 



Cook the crumbs, horse-radish, and milk 20 minutes in a double boiler, 
the remaining ingredients and serve either hot or cold. 

Horse-Radish Sauce No. 2 



Add 



% cup thick cream. I 1 tablespoon vinegar. 

3 tablespoons grated horse-radish root.' Sn't and cayenne. 
Whip the cream and add the other ingredients. 



Mutton Savory Loaf 



pounds lean mutton free from bone. 

pounds lean fresh pork free from 

bone. 

small onion. 

green pepper 

stalks celery. 

bunch parsley. 



1 cup milk. 

2 eggs. 

V2 teaspoon each curry powder, 
dered thyme, black pepper, 
paprika. 

1 % tablespoons salt. 

1 pound bacon sliced very thin. 



pow- 
and 



74 



Practical Sheep Husbandry 



Remove the seeds from the pepper and put the vegetables and meat through 
a meat grinder, using the finest chopper for the vegetables, and chopping the 
meat about as fine as for Hamburg steak. Mix thoroughly all the ingredients 
but the bacon. Form the chopped meat mixture into a roll about 2 or 3 inches 
in diameter; cover the sides and ends completely with the bacon, roll in a pudding 
cloth or a piece of cheesecloth, and tie securely. This can be conveniently done 
by laying the cloth on a flat surface, and then laying the strips of bacon upon it 
side by side in such a way as to form a continuous layer large enough to cover the 
whole surface of the meat roll. Put the meat roll in the center, and bring the 
bacon up around the sides and ends. The cloth should be tied securely at the 
ends, and either pinned or sewed securely at the side. Boil for three hours in just 
enough water to cover, to which has been added one tablespoon of salt and one- 
half cup of vinegar. This may be served cold or may be cut into slices and 
fried. This mixture may also be either steamed in a mold or baked. If this is 
done, the bacon should be used to line the mold and cover the top of the mixture. 
If baked, it is well to add to the meat mixture a cup of bread crumbs and one-half 
cup of milk. 

For the fresh pork in the above, either an equal amount of ham, veal, or a 
mixture of veal and salt pork, may be substituted. When ham or salt pork is 
used reduce the amount of salt. 



Braised Leg of Mutton 



1 leg mutton. 

% medium-sized onion. 

1 carrot. 

1 turnip. 

% bay leaf. 



1 sprig each thyme and parsley. 
^/4 cup mucton drippings or butter. 
1 V2 teaspoons salt. 
12 peppercorns. 
3 cups hot water. 



Have the leg of mutton boned. Wipe, stuff with the mixture described below, 
sew, and place in a deep pan. Cook the onion (sliced), the carrot and turnip 
(cut into dice), bay leaf, thyme, and parsley five minutes in the butter or mut- 
ton drippings. Add the hot water, salt, and peppercorns, and pour the mixture 
over the mutton. Cook slowly for three hours, with the dish covered except 
for the last half hour. Make a brown gravy out of the strained broth in which 
the meat has been cooked. 

Stuffing for Braised Leg of Mutton 

The stuffing for the braised leg of mutton is made as follows : 



1 cup cracker crumbs. 

2 tablespoons melted butter. 
M teaspoon salt. 



Vs teaspoon pepper. 

V2 teaspoon poulti-y seasoning. 

% cup boiling water. 



Oven Pot Roast 



3 pounds mutton from the shoulder. 
1 cup potatoes cut into small pieces. 
1 cup carrots cut into small pieces. 



V4: cup sliced onion. 
2 tablespoons flour. 
Salt. 



Put the meat into an earthenware bean pot and cover with boiling water. 
Place the cover on the pot and let the meat cook in a moderate oven for two 
hours. Add the vegetables and the salt, cover again, and cook for one hour. 
Redcce the liquid in which the meat and vegetables have been cooked to one cup 
cup and thicken with the flour. 

Shoulder of Mutton Braised With Turnips 



6 pounds mutton from the shoulder. 

1 onion. 

1 carrot. 

1 stalk celery. 

4 cloves. 



Vz bay leaf 
1 quart water. 
6 turnips. 
Salt. 



Preparing of Mutton and Lamb 



75 



Cut the onion, carrot, and celery into small pieces and put these with the 
shoulder of mutton into a deep baking pan. Cover, and allow the mutton juice 
to permeate the vegetables and brown with them. Then add the water, cloves, 
and bay leaf. Cook in a moderate oven until the meat is tender, which will be 
about 20 minutes for each pound. One hour before serving, add the turnips, 
which have beeen peeled and parboiled. 



1 breast mutton. 
Few slices bacon. 
% pint stock. 



Braised Breast of Mutton 

I 1 lemon. 
1 onion. 
Salt. 



Line the bottom of a casserole or other earthenware baking dish with a few 
thin slices of bacon, lay the mutton on these, and put over it the lemon, which 
has been peeled and cut into slices. Cover with one or two more slices of bacon 
and add the stock and onion. Cover the dish. Cook slowly on the top of the 
stove or in the oven until the meat is tender. 



Mutton Smothered In Tomatoes 



1% pounds mutton steak. 
1 cup bread crumbs. 
1 small onion. 
Poultry seasoning. 



Salt. 

1 can tomatoes, or 1 quart fresh toma- 
toes cut in slices. 



Spread over the mutton steak a layer of bread crumbs mixed with the minced 
onion and other seasonsings. Roll and tie into shape. Place in a casserole or 
other dish with a tightly-fitting cover. Pour the tomatoes over the meat and 
cook very slowly in the oven or on top of the stove for three or four hours. If 
the tomatoes do not cover the meat, add a little boiling water. 

Braised Leg of Mutton With Sour Gravy 



1 leg of mutton. 

2 tablespoons butter or drippings. 

3 cups vinegar. 
3 cups water. 

Vz teaspoon each of powdered thyme and 

marjoram. 
% dozen cloves. 
1 clove of garlic. 



1/2 cup each of celery, carrots and onions 

finely chopped. 
2 tables'^'>'^->s chopped parsley. 
1 dozen peppercorns. 
% bay leaf. 
1 pint sour cream. 
Vi pint stock. 
Salt. 



Fry the celery, carrots, and onions in the fat until light brown, add the vinegar 
and water, and cook until the vegetables are soft. When this mixture is cool, 
pour over the leg of mutton, which should be fully covered and which, for this 
reason, should be in a dish just large enough to hold it. Allow the mutton to lie 
in this mixture for 24 hours. Upon removing it, drain quite dry and bake in a 
moderate oven for 30 minutes. Then pour the sour cream and stock around it and 
cook until tender, basting frequently. Reduce the liquor in which the meat has 
been cooked to a small volume, strain it, and pour over the meat. 

ROASTED MUTTON 

The term "roasting" was originally applied to cooking before an open fire, 
but as now used it is usually synonymous with baking. Since meat cooked by 
this process is subjected to dry heat, even greater precautions must be taken to 
prevent the escape of juices than in boiling. The oven should be very hot until 
the meat is thoroughly seared; then the temperature should be reduced and the 
fat which drips from the meat should be frequently poured over its surface. 

Roast Leg or Saddle of Mutton 

Sprinkle the meat with salt and pepper, place upon a rack in the baking pan, 



76 Practical Sheep Husbandry 

and dredge with flour. Bake in a hot oven, basting frequently. Allow from 10 
to 15 minutes per pound, depending upon whether it is desired well done or not. 

Brown Gravy for Roast Mutton 

In making gravy for roast mutton or any other roast meat, allow 2 level table- 
spoons of fat for each cup of gravy desired, pouring off any in excess of this 
amount. To the fat add 3 tablespoons of flour and cook thoroughly, browning 
it, but being very careful not to burn it. Add boiling water or broth and boil 
for a short time, stirring constantly. Add salt and pepper. The proportions are 
2 tablespoons of fat, 3 tablespoons of flour, and 1 cup of water or stock. If the 
flour is not browned, only 2 level tablespoons are needed for each cup. 

Currant-Jelly Gravy 

A gravy flavored and made acid with currant jelly is often served with roast 
mutton. To each cup of brown gravy made from the fat of roast mutton add a 
glass of currant jelly or less. The addition of currant jelly is specially suitable 
when cold mutton is to be warmed up in gravy. 

Mint Sauce and Mint Jeliy 

^4 cup finely chopped mint leaves. I % cup vinegar. 

1 tablespoon powdered sugar. | % teaspoon salt. 

Combine the ingredients and let the mixture stand in a warm place until the 
flavor of the mint has penetrated the liquid. 

Mint sauce, which is so generally relished with roast mutton and roast lamb, 
may be made from either the fresh or the dried spearmint. Mint jelly, which 
is also popular, can be made by stiffening mint sauce with gelatin. For this pur- 
pose one-half tablespoonful of gelatin soaked in cold water enough to cover it 
may be used with a cup of mint sauce made as above from freshly chopped mint 
leaves; or make a mint sauce by boiling together one cupful each of vinegar 
(not too strong) and sugar for about five minutes and adding three-fourths cupful 
finely chopped mint leaves and one-fourth teaspoonful of salt and a very little 
'^•^rr ka. To this add one and one-fourth tablespoonfuls granulated gelatin which 
has been softened in a little cold water. Cool the mixture and stir until it begins 
to thicken and then pour it into small molds or glasses. The amount of mint 
may be increased if a stronger flavor is liked. This jelly can be kept only a short 
time. 

Mint jelly is also made by flavoring apple jelly with green mint leaves. Two 
pounds of apples cut in quarters are cooked with water to cover until soft, as 
for ordinary :elly, and three cups of green mint leaves and tops are added about 
10 minutes before the cooking is completed. To the juice drained from the apple 
and mint, three-fourths of a cupful of sugar and the juice of a large lemon are 
added, and the jelly is cooked until a little tested on a cold plate will harden. It 
is then strained into hot jelly glasses. 

Houpekeeners commonly tint jelly made by either method with a little vegetable 
green coloring matter. 

Leg of Mutton Stuffed and Roasted 

For this purpose have the leg of mutton cut into two pieces and use the 
thicker end, which should be boned. Stuff the boned piece and tie into good shape. 
Roast in a hot oven, allowing about 10 minutes for each pound if the meat is 
desired rare, 15 if desired well cooked. 



Dressing for Roast Mutton 



1 pint stale bread crumbs. 
Vz cup cracker crumbs. 

V2 teaspoon sage. 

2 tablespoons butter. 



1 teaspoon sweet marjoram. 

Salt and pepper. 

Few drops onion juice. 



Preparing of Mutton and Lamb 77 

Soak the bread in cold water. Press out nearly all the water, and add the other 
ingredients. 

Roast Ribs of Mutton With Apples 

After wiping the meat, spread over the surface one finely chopped clove of 
garlic, one chopped onion, one-half teaspoon each of powdered thyme and mar- 
joram, and one teaspoon of salt. Place on a rack and roast in a moderate oven 
from one and one-half to two hours, basting frequently. Place potatoes and sour 
apples around the roast, the former one hour before serving and the latter one-half 
hour. The apples will prove a palatable accompaniment to the roast and will 
impart their flavor to the gravy. 

Roast Mutton With Bananas 

Peel the bananas and bake them for 30 minutes under the mutton. Tart 
fruit relishes, such as spiced currants or those given below, may be served with 
the bananas. 

Fruit Relishes With Roast Mutton 



1 cup prunes cut into small pieces. 

1 Vz cups water. 

3 tablespoons sugar. 



V2 teaspoon ground cinnamon. 
2 tablespoons currant jelly. 
Juice of V2 orange. 



Foil together until the prunes are soft. 

For the prunes in this recipe raisins or a mixture of equal parts of raisins and 
prunes may be substituted. One-fourth cup of butter is sometimes added. 

These fruit relishes may be served also with sliced cold lamb or mutton and 
are very palatable. 

Roast Mutton With Turnips 

Turnips are frequently cooked under roast mutton. They are sometimes 
stuffed. To prepare in this way, first parboil the turnips and then scoop out 
a portion of each by means of a spoon and fill the cavity with bread which has 
been soaked in cream or in milk to which a little melted butter has been added. 



Baked Breast of Mutton 

Sew up a breast of mutton in a very thin cloth, put it into a stewpan, pour 
over it enough cold salted water to nearly cover it, and let it simmer, allowing 
10 minutes to each pound. Then take it out of the saucepan and out of the cloth 
put it in a baking dish, rub it over with mutton drippings, butter, or savory fat, 
sprinkle some flour over it, and bake for one-half hour in a hot oven, basting fre- 
quently with its own broth. Five minutes before taking it out of the oven strew 
fine dry bread crumbs thickly over it, put little bits of butter here and there, 
and let it brown. Serve with a brown sauce made from the broth in which the 
meat was cooked. 

Mutton and Potato Pie 



1 pound mutton from the shoulder. 

1 onion. 

Vz cup flour. 

1 carrot. 



6 medium-sized potatoes. 
1 teaspoon baking powder. 
1 tablespoon butter. 
Salt. 



Cook the onions, carrots, and meat together in water enough to cover. Boil 
the potatoes separately. Reserve enough of the potatoes to make a cup of mashed 
potatoes. Cut the remaining potatoes and the other vegetables and meat into 
small pieces, and place in a baking dish. Cover with some of the broth thickened 
with the flour. Mash the remaining potatoes. Add butter and salt. Mix this 
with the flour which has been thoroughly sifted with the baking powder. Spread 
this mixture over the ingredients in the baking dish, and bake in a hot oven until 
the crust is brown. 



78 Practical Sheep Husbandry 

broiling 

Broiling is a process closely akin to roasting, as the term was formerly used. 
It is performed over a clear fire, and relatively thin pieces of meat only are 
suitable for the purpose. The searing of the surface, which can be accomplished 
very quickly, is usually sufficient for the retention of the juices. In the case of 
meats having little fat, however, butter or other fat should be rubbed over the sur- 
face before the cooking is begun. 

Chops from the loin or the rib, cutlets from the leg, or thick pieces cut from 
rare boiled or roasted mutton are suitable for broiling. When it is not convenient 
to broil, much the same results can be secured by pan broiling, i. e., cooking in a 
hot pan lightly greased. 

Broiled Loin Chops 

Remove superfluous fat and roll the flank about the tenderloin, fastening it 
with skewers. Place on a broiler greased with some of the mutton fat. Cook 
from six to eight minutes, turning frequently during the first part of the time. 
A sauce of butter to which a little lemon juice and chopped parsley have been 
added is sometimes rubbed over the chops, or since the chops themselves con- 
tain much fat, lemon juice and parsley only may be used, or the chops may be 
served on thin slices of lemon. Onion sauce is by some people considered a great 
delicacy for serving with broiled chops. 

Sauces for Broiled Loin Chops 

Parsley and Butter Sauce 



V2 tablespoon finely chopped parsley. 
% tablespoon lemon juice. 



%: cup butter. 
% teaspoon salt. 
Vs teaspoon pepper. 

Cream the butter, add the salt, pepper, and parsley, and then the lemon juice 
very slowly. 



Onion Sauce 



6 large white onions. 
14 cup butter. 
1 tablespoon flour. 



1 teaspoon sugar. 
Vz cup cream. 
Salt. 



Cut the onions into two or three pieces each, and cook them for 10 minutes 
in boiling salt water. Strain them and cook in a covered saucepan with the 
butter for about three-fourths hour or until they are very tender. Press through 
a puree sieve and reheat. Sprinkle the flour over them, stirring it in thoroughly, 
and add the seasonings. Bring to the boiling point and heat long enough to cook 
the flour thoroughly. 

Tomato Sauce 



2 tablespoons butter. 
2 tablespoons flour. 

Stewed or fresh tomato enough to make 
1 cup when well boiled down. 



1 stalk celery. 
1 sliced onion. 
Few cloves. 
Salt and pepper. 



Cook the tomatoes with the seasonings. Cook the flour thoroughly in the 
butter, strain the tomatoes, and add to them the butter and flour. Cook all 
together until smooth, stirring constantly. 



Montana Steak 



1 pound lean mutton free from bone. 

1 egg. 

'V2 cup milk. 



1 teaspoon salt. 

Vs teaspoon pepper. 

Few drops onion juice. 



Preparing of Mutton and Lamb 79 

Chop the meat finely, add the other ingredients, form into small cakes, and 
either broil or fry them. While this dish is more delicate if the egg and milk 
are used, it can be made without them. In this case it resembles very closely 
Hamburg steak as it is ordinarily prepared from beef. It may be made with 
or without onion. 

FRYING 

Frying in deep fat is a method of cooking meat in which it is subjected to 
high temperature, and which imparts a distinctive flavor to the meat. It is a 
common custom to dip meat, fish, etc., cooked by this method, in egg and fine 
crumbs before immersing in the hot fat. 

Fried Crumbed Mutton 

If thin pieces of mutton, either raw or cooked, are dipped in flour, then in egg, 
and then in crumbs and fried in deep fat, they lose less moisture than if broiled. 
This method is especially suitable or rib chops, thin loin chops, or small pieces 
cut from rare cooked meat. Thick chops would hardly be cooked through by 
this process. 

Fried Rib Chops 

Wipe the chops and salt them on both sides, dip them in flour, and then in a 
mixture of egg and water in the proportion of one egg to two tablespoons of 
water and finally in fine cracker crumbs. Fry in deep fat at a temperature 
suitable for foods that have not been already cooked, which is about 350 degrees 
Fahrenheit. In fat of this temperature a small piece of bread from the center 
of the loaf will become a delicate brown in one minute. 

Chops prepared in this way are often served around a mound of mashed 
potatoes. This has the advantage of keeping the chops hot if the precaution has 
been taken to reheat the potatoes after they have been mashed. A depression 
may be made in the mound of potatoes for tomato sauce, which is a good ac- 
companiment for this dish. Broiled or fried chops are sometimes served around 
mounds of peas, young carrots, turnips, fried green peppers, or a puree of beans. 

To prepare the carrots for this purpose, boil them in water, pour off the 
water, and add a little butter, a very little sugar, and chopped parsley. Reheat. 

To prepare green cweet peppers, which are an exceptionally good accom- 
paniment for mutton, remove all the seeds, cut into thin slices, and cook in 
butter and a little water. Allow the water to evaporate after the peppers have 
become tender and cook them in the fat until they begin to brown, but not long 
enough to blacken them. 

Another dish which is often served with mutton chops or roast mutton is a 
puree of navy beans. 

Puree of Navy Beans to Accompany Mutton Chops and Roast 



1 pint beans. 

1 onion. 

1 carrot. 

1 sprig parsley. 

Pepper. 

% pound salt pork or 



2 tablespoons mutton drippings. 

2 cloves. 

Vz teaspoon salt. 

1 quart water. 

1 tablespoon butter. 



Soak the beans over night, drain, and add the other ingredients with the 
exception of the butter. Boil for 30 minutes and cook in a moderate oven for 
one hour. Remove the onions, carrot, and parsley and press through a sieve. 
Add butter and salt (if necessary) and reheat. Similar purees may be made from 
red kidney beans, split peas, and lentils. 

WARMED-OVER MUTTON 

Since the successful recooking of mutton usually consists in utilizing well 
what happens to be on hand, both in the way of meat and also of vegetables or 



80 Practical Sheep Husbandry 

other accompaniments, it is difficult to give any definite recipes. In many cases 
the preparation of a dish involves simply the reheating of pieces of the cold 
meat in a gravy, and for this reason the principles of the making of gravies should 
be kept in mind in this connection. The proportions for a sauce of suitable 
thickness are tw^o level tablespoons of fat and two of flour to each cup of liquic 
The fat may be butter, drippings, or savory fat, and the liquid may be water, 
stock, milk, tomato juice, or a combination of two or more of these. Browning 
the flour in the fat is an easy way of securing variety. If this is done the thick- 
ening power of the flour is reduced and the amount used should be three instead 
of two tablespoons to one cup of liquid. 

The following, which is capable of a large number of variations secured by 
using different fats, liquids, and seasonings, is a good sauce in which to reheat 
mutton. 



1 V2 cups white stock. 
1 slice onion. 
1 slice carrot. 

1 sprig parsley. 

2 peppercorns. 



Sauce for Warmed-Over Mutton 



% cup butter. 
V4: cup flour. 
1 cup scalded milk. 
V2 teaspoon salt. 
Vs teaspoon pepper. 



Cook the stock 20 minutes with onion, caiTot, bay leaf, parsley, and pepper- 
corn, and strain. There should be one cup. Melt the butter, add the flour, and 
gradually the hot stock and milk. Season with salt and pepper. 

Mutton In Gravy 

Cold mutton reheated in gravy or sauce is served with rice, on toast, on bak- 
ing-powder biscuits, with a pastry or biscuit crust, with a crust of mashed po- 
tatoes, or with a crust consisting of mashed potatoes and mashed turnips in pro- 
portion of 2 to 1. 

Cutlets of Cold Mutton 

From a leg of mutton, which has been cooked rare, cut pieces about the size 
of an ordinary loin chop. These may be fried in a little fat, or egged, crumbed, 
and fried in deep fat, or they may be brushed over with fat and broiled. The 
result is like meat cooked for the first time rather than like the ordinary warmed- 
over meat. Cutlets thus prepared may be served with any of the sauces suggested 
for serving with chops. 

Mutton and Tomato Pie 

An excellent way to use cold mutton is to bake it with tomatoes, using alter- 
nate layers of tomatoes and meat. A tomato sauce may be used or the following 
method may be employed: Place in a baking dish a layer of fresh tomatoes 
or of cooked tomatoes which have been either drained or reduced in volume bv 
boiling. Add a layer of meat, dredge with flour, salt, and pepper, and add small 
bits of butter until the materials are used, arranging to have a layer of tomatoes 
on top. Cover this with a layer of buttered bread crumbs or cracker crumbs 
and bake until the crumbs are brown. In following this method use tomato, 
butter, and flour in the correct proportions for tomato sauce, i. e., two lev«l 
tablespoons each of butter and flour for each cup of tomatoes. 

Green Peppers Stuffed With Mutton 

Cut green peppers in two lengthwise and remove all the seeds. Fill with a 
mixture of equal parts of cold mutton and boiled rice well seasoned and moistened 
with a little stock or water. Bake until the peppers are tender. 

Mutton Croquettes 

Like other meats, mutton may be used for croquettes. A general rule for 
making croquettes is to combine two cups of finely chopped cooked meat (or 



Preparing of Mutton and Lamb 



81 



the same amount of a mixture of meat, rice, and potatoes, or other vegetables) 
■with one cup of thick sauce. The sauce for this purpose is made by heating one- 
third cup of flour, or one-fourth cup of cornstarch, in three tablespoons of fat, 
and adding a cup of liquid which may be stock, water, milk, tomato juice, or a 
mixture. The amounts given above are those generally used, but the proportion 
^^ sauce to meat varies under different circumstances, as some substances absorb 
more of this sauce than others do. It is a common practice, though by no means 
necessary, to add the yolk of a raw egg. After the mixture of meat and sauce is 
cooled it is form.ed into rolls of uniform size which should be dipped first in flour, 
then in a mixture of two tablespoons of water and one egg, and finally in fine 
cracker crumbs. The temperature for frying croquettes is that for all foods which 
have already been cooked (about 400 degrees Fahrenheit). Fat (oil, lard, drip- 
pings, etc.) at that temperature will brown a piece of bread taken from the center 
of a loaf in 40 seconds. 



Mutton and Caper Croquettes 



3 tablespoons savory fat. 

% cup flour. 

1 cup mutton stock or milk. 



2 cups finely chopped cold mutton. 
1 tablespoon finely chopped capers. 
Salt. 



Make a sauce out of the fat, flour and liquid, mix with the other ingredients, 
and follow the rules given above for making croquettes. 

Mutton and Rice Croquettes 

In the above recipe, substitute one cup of cold boiled rice for one of the cups 
of mutton. 

Mutton and Potato Croquettes 

In the recipe for mutton croquettes, substitute two-thirds of a cup of cold 
boiled potatoes cut into small pieces for one of the cups of mutto' 



Steamed Mutton and Rice 



4 cups cooked or 

1 cup raw rice. 

2 cues cooked mutton 
pieces. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

% teaspoon pepper. 



cut into small 



Few drops onion juice. 

1 tablespoon chopped parsl«»» 

V4: cup bread crumbs. 

1 egg. 

Stock or water. 



Grease a mold or a bowl of about 1 V2 quarts capacity and line with cooked 
rice. Heat the meat with the other ingredients, using enough stock to make 
a mixture that is moist, but will hold its shape. Pack the rheat in the center 
of the mold and cover with the remaining rice, grease the cover of the mold (if 
a bowl is used, a plate will serve for a cover) , steam or cook in water enough 
to partly cover the mold until the contents are thoroughly heated through. Tui'n 
it on a hot platter and serve with tomato sauce. 

The above recipe, it will be noted, suggests the use of bread crumbs instead 
of flour for thickening, which is often a way of saving bread which might other- 
wise be wasted, and which is also one way of securing variety, as a different 
texture results than when flour is used. 



Mock Venison 

Cut cold mutton into thin slices and reheat in a sauce made in the following 



way: 

2 tablespoons butter. 
2 tablespoons flour. 
1 cup water or stock. 



V4: cup red currant jelly. 

1 tablespoon catsup or other meat sauce. 

Salt. 



82 



Practical Sheep Husbandry 



Make a brown sauce out of the butter, flour, and water or stock, 
jelly and other flavorings. 

Turkish Stuffed Tomatoes 



Add the 



In Turkey a number of dishes are prepared from mutton which are interesting: 
from the point of view of the food customs of another country, and also palatable. 
The recipes here given have been modified somewhat to accord with our usual 
habits of cookery. One of them involves the use of bi'oken rice, which can easily 
be pi-epared by the use of an ordinary meat grinder. The following recipe foV 
Stuffed tomatoes is little dift'erent from many used in this country: 

Two tablespoons cooked rice, one-half pound raw mutton, two onions. Pass 
the materials through a meat grinder; season with salt, pepper, and chopped 
parsley; fry in a pan for 10 minutes, stirring constantly. Wash one dozen smooth 
round tomatoes, cut a thin slice from the stem end, leaving a little of the skin 
for a hinge, remove the seeds and pulp, and fill with the meat mixture. Bake in 
a pan for 20 minutes, lift out with a broad knife and serve hot. 

Mutton and Eggplant Pie 

Eggplant pie is a simple and well-seasoned dish made from a vegetable which 
has no marked flavor. It is made by cooking together in a baking pan alternate 
layers of eggplant and of chopped mutton fried in its own fat. Sometimes a 
little tomato juice is added or a few sliced tomatoes. It should be baked until well 
browned. 

Mutton and Rice Rolls 



A characteristic Turkish dish is "sarma" or rolls made of meat and broken 
rice Wrapped in grape leaves and then boiled. An acceptable substitute for this 
dish and one more in accord with common methods may be made by cooking chopped 
mutton and rice in a baking dish lined with slices of tart apple, which gives an 
even more pronounced tart flavor than the grape leaves, or the following recipe 
may be Used : 

Mutton and Cabbage-Leaf Rolls 



% teaspoon pepper, 
1 head cabbage. 
1 lemon. 



1 cup i-aw chopped mutton. 

2 tablespoons fat. 
Vs cup raw rice. 
2 teaspoons salt. 

Throw cabbage leaves of suitable size into boiling water and let them stand 
Until they are wilted. Mix the remaining ingredients (with the exception of 
the lemon) and form into rolls, each containing about 1 tablespoon. Wrap 
each roll in a cabbage leaf, removing the thicker part of the stem of the leaf 
if necessary in order to roll it well. Pack these rolls closely into the baking 
dish and cover with water or stock. Bake one-half hour. Just before serving 
squeeze the juice of a lemon over them. 

Or serve with the following: 

Sour Butter Sauce for Mutton and Cabbage-Leaf Rolls 



1 tablespoon chopped pickle. 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley. 

2 tablespoons mutton fat (savory or 
2 tablespoons butter, 

plain rendered). 



3 tablespoons vinegar (spiced vinegar 

fi'om pickles preferable) . 
Salt and red pepper to taste. 



Beat the butter and mutton fat with a spoon until smooth, then beat in the 
Vinegar until the sauce looks light colored and the vinegar has all been taken 
Up. Add 1 tablespoon of finely chopped pickles and 1 tablespoon of finely chopped 
parsley. 



Preparing of Mutton and Lamb 83 

mutton with fruits 

In the Orient it is a common custom to cook mutton with various fruits. 
Quinces, pears, apricots, and prunes, either fresh or dried, are used for this 
purpose. The fruit and meat should be cooked separately and reheated in com- 
bination. Some recipes direct that the meat be browned before cooking in water, 
others that it simply be stewed in water. Of the many recipes that might be given 
the following, based on oriental recipes, are selected : 

Mutton With Quinces 

For this recipe use any cut of mutton suitable for stewing and twice its 
weight of raw quinces. Cut the meat into small pieces and brown them either 
in mutton fat or butter. Cover with boiling water, add salt, and cook slowly 
until tender. Pare and quarter the quinces and cook them in a small amount 
of water until tender. Combine the meat with the fruit and cook slowly for 
10 or 15 minutes. Serve with rice. Variety may be obtained by making a 
brown gravy with the fat in which the meat is fried and cooking the .meat in that. 

Mutton With Sour Apples 

In the above recipe sour apples may be substituted for quinces. 

Mutton Baked With Apples and Onions 

2 pounds mutton cutlets from neck. I 1 onion. 

Salt. I 4 medium-sized apples. 

Prepare the meat by removing the bone and superfluous fat. Season with 
salt and lay in a baking dish. Cover the meat with finely sliced sour apples and 
finely chopped onions. Bake in a moderate oven until the meat is tender, which 
will be about one hour. 

CORNED MUTTON AND ITS USES 

For convenience, the amounts are changed so as to be suitable for the 
quantity of meat which would usually be used in the home. If larger quantities 
are corned, the quantities should be increased proportionately. The shoulder is 
the cut most frequently corned. The leg is delicious corned, but it is too ex- 
pensive to be used in this way except for the purpose of preserving it. 

10 pounds mutton. 1 tablespoon saltpeter. 

1 Vz cups salt. 

% tablespoon baking soda. 

Rub the salt thoroughly into the meat, covering every portion, and allow the 
meat to stand vdth the salt on it for 24 hours; then pour over it the other in- 
gredients dissolved in a small amount of lukewarm water. Add water enough to 
cover the meat, and allow the meat to stand in the brine for at least three or 
four days. Meat thus corned will keep in good condition for a long time. Since 
mutton absorbs salt more readily than beef, special care should be taken to 
avoid using too much of it. 

Corned mutton may be used in all the ways in which corned beef is used. 
The broth in which it is boiled makes good soup when seasoned with onion and 
turnip or other vegetables. 

MUTTON SAUSAGES 

Sausage can be made from mutton mixed with pork in much the same way as 
beef is used for similar purposes. A general formula would be: Mutton, 2 parts; 
lean fresh pork, 1 part; and fat, pork, 1 part; with salt and seasoning to suit the 
taste. Such sausage can be made into cakes and cooked at once or may be packed 
in skins or bags in the usual way. Homemade sausage is very commonly kept 
frozen. When this is not possible, it is often convenient to make small quantities 
for immediate use. 



% cup brown sugar. 



84 



Practical Sheep Husbandry 



Mutton Sausage No. 1 



1 pound mutton free from bone. 
Vs pound fat fresh pork. 
Vs teaspoon black pepper. 



V2 teaspoon salt. 

V4: teaspoon each, marjoram, thyme, and 
sage. 



Put the meat through a sausage or meat grinder, and mix thoroughly with 
the other ingredients. Pack in a bag about 2 1/2 inches in diameter and keep in a 
very cool place. Cut into slices and fry. If it is to be used at once packing in 
a bag is not necessary; instead the chopped and seasoned meat may be made 
into cakes. 

Mutton Sausage No. 2 



V2 pound mutton free from bone. 

% pound veal. 

Vo pound salt pork. 

Vi teaspoon salt. 



Vi teaspoon each, marjoram, thyme, and 

sage. 
Vs teaspoon black pepper. 



In preparirg the sausage, follow the directions for Mutton Sausage No. i. 



Boost Your Own Product 

Every producer should boost his business and kill a few lambs each 
year, advertise the fact among his neighbors, and get them to eating 
and using his product, by giving them recipes and showing them how 
to prepare this delicious food, so they will be asking him or the butcher 
for it. Think of it! A man said to me the other day: "I have been 
feeding and handling sheep for many years, and have never tasted 
mutton or lamb." Should this man complain about the lack of demand 
for his product? If the reader does not develop an appetite in reading 
these splendid recipes over once, he should repeat the dose as often as 
necessary. 



PRACTICAL 




HUSBANDRY 



WM, A. BURNS 






R. B. HiNMAN 

COLLECTION 




Professor of Animal Husbandry 
1921-1943 

New York 

State College of Agriculture 

At Cornell University 

Ithaca, N. Y. 



SF 375.B8°19l'9"™™'''">"-"'"^'' 
Pjl^ctical sheep husbandry, 




3 1924 003 207 788 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tiiis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924003207788 






Practical Sheep Husbandry 



By 
Wm. A. Burns 



A COMPREHENSIVE TREATISE 

OF 

PRACTICAL METHODS FOR PRODUCING, FEEDING AND 

FATTENING SHEEP AND LAMBS FOR MARKET 



Price $1.00 



PUBLISHED BY 

WM. A. BURNS 

EXCHANGE BLDG., U. S. YDS. 

CHICAGO, ILL. 



"Let him learn a prudence of a higher strain. Let him 
learn that everything in Nature, even motes and feathers, go 
by law and not by luck, and that what he sows he reaps." 

— Emerson. 



e 

1^ n 



Copyright, 1919, by Wm. A. Burns 



Address All Correspondence to 

WM. A. BURNS 

Exchange Bldg. 

U. S. Yards, Chicago, 111. 



PREFACE 

WE have in this country today a few good breeders of sheep, and 
their work has been good; and although more of their kind are 
needed and better breeding needs to be encouraged, I find my attention 
drawn to the commercial and farm flock. 

During the early winter of 1918, I was introduced to one of Illinois' 
best cattle feeders. We talked sheep and the sheep business a little 
while, and as I walked away I heard him say to his commission man: 
"Why didn't you teach me the sheep business? I know that I would 
like sheep ; I need them on my farm and have always wanted to handle 
them, but I don't want to try raising or feeding them and fail at it, 
as so many of my neighbors have done." This statement, by a suc- 
cessful cattle feeder, set me to thinking of the great need for informa- 
tion and education of the right sort regarding sheep, and resulted in 
my decision to offer this little book on the subject. I wish it under- 
stood, however, that I am not offering this as a complete work on 
sheep or sheep feeding, and that my principal object is to point out to 
the honest seeker after some practical information, the kind of animal 
he is doing business with, and the methods necessary to insure success. 

I will try to show in this little volume how the farm flock can be 
kept at a profit; how to care for, fatten and feed sheep and lambs for 
the market; what the market demands are; and, if possible, create a 
greater demand for mutton and lamb by offering some excellent recipes 
for preparing and serving this food. 

The product offered on the market, only too plainly shows lack of 
information on the part of the men who are trying to handle sheep. It 
has been well said that a chain is only as strong as its weakest link, 
and so while the producer has been schooled along certain lines, he has 
failed, because one especial fundamental has not been thoroughly pointed 
out to him, namely, the real nature of sheep. 

Nature has given to every living thing in the animal kingdom, some 
means of defense or protection. The sheep, in a prehistorical period, 
may have been fleet of foot, and with its horns was amply able to take 
good care of itself among the beasts of prey. The sheep of today is in 
reality a product of man's ingenuity. This animal has been, through 
domestication, schooled entirely away from his native state, and is a 
helpless thing but for man's protecting arm. The American farmer 
needs to know, when he turns his sheep out to rustle for themselves, 



PREFACE 

that they will be just as good as the man who cares for them, no better 
and no worse. 

We are just what education and breeding have made us, whether that 
education has been false or true. Both of the following examples tend 
to show when and how some of our most noble animals were originally 
created; and what breeding and education will accomplish: 

One of the noblest animals which we possess is the Newfoundland 
dog, which was produced by crossing the Eskimo dog with a French 
Hound; likewise the English thoroughbred of today is the result of 
crossing an Arabian stallion with an ordinary English mare, although, 
of course, especially selected. 

The mistakes that have been made in the sheep business should not 
discourage any one desirous of going into it, and the fact that I bring 
some of these errors to the surface, should not alarm the reader; be- 
cause, as a certain great writer has well said, "Error discovered is two- 
thirds destroyed." 

Authorities Consulted 

It will be my intention to keep all prejudice and biased opinions well 
out of my mind. I have consulted the best authorities, and wish to 
express my appreciation to Mr. F. R. Marshall of the Department of 
Animal Industry at Washington, and Prof. W. C. Coffey of the Uni- 
versity of Illinois, both of whom have furnished considerable data, 
some of the feeding formulas and considerable important information; 
also to Mr. E. W. Baker, of the U. S. Bureau of Markets at Chicago, 
who has lent a very helping hand, and to the American Sheep Breeder 
and Wool Grower, U. S. Yards, Chicago, which has been very kind in 
furnishing and helping to arrange the various cuts and pictures through 
the book. 



CONTENTS 



Advantages of Agricultural Stations 61 

After Weaning .39 

Age 27 

Beginners and Their Responsibilities 21 

Better Fall Feeds Provided 48 

Bringing In the Flock At Night 40 

British Sheep Feeders 62 

Care of Ewe and Lambs . 32 

Castrating 35 

Cattle Ranchman Offers Example .......... 48 

Charged to the Wrong Account 25 

Cheviot 16 

Chilled Lamb 33 

Cleaning and Fertilizing the Farm .......... 45 

Commendable Efforts .... 23 

Comparison of Results . . 49 

Cotswold 13 

Cutting Chute .53 

Delaine Merino .... .11 

Development of Different Breeds . . . . 10 

Development of Western Flock . . . .... 22 

Dipping ........... . .37 

Docking . ... 35 

Dorset Horn ........ .... 15 

Dry Lot or Barn Feeding .... 55 

Early Lambs .... . . . .36 

English Mutton Breeds . .... 12 

Experience of Iowa Farmer .... . ... 21 

Fall Roughage . ... 46 

Farm Flock Recommended . ... 28 

Feeders Adaptable to Feed .... .... 47 

Field to Dry Lot 57 

Field Feeding 45 

Finishing Sheep vs. Cattle ..... 49 

Flock Must Receive Kind Treatment 53 

Good Advice 26 

Good Care and Big Gains 56 

Grain; Its Importance 51 

Green vs. Matured Feeds 55 

Hampshire ... .... 13 

History of Sheep. ....... 9 

Kinds to Buy .... . . 50-61 

Lambing ... . . 32 

Lamb Creep ... ... . .... 34 

Lambing Pen 32 



CONTENTS 

Leicester ....••• 1' 

Lincoln . .....•••!' 

Managing the Farm Flock 25 

Managing the Floclc Through the Summer 38 

Market 18 

Mating 28 

Merino .........•••••• 10 

Methods of Michigan Feeders 56 

More Facts Needed 22 

Most Important Periods ............ 28 

Must Give Value Received 20 

Number to Buy 27 

Number to Be Shipped In Car 51 

Oxford Down 14 

Pregnancy 29 

Producing Early Lambs 36 

Preparing for Lambing 31 

Preparing and Serving Mutton and Lamb for the Table 67 

Problems of Reconstruction 20 

Progressive System 38 

Quality of Feeders 46 

Quality of Western Sheep 22 

Questions and Suggestions 63 

Rationing Sheep and Lambs 58 

Rambouillet 12 

Ranchman 19 

Rationing Simplified ............. 21 

Romney Marsh .... 17 

Root Crops .... 63 

Roughages ......... ..... 60 

Same Problems But Different Answ^ers ......... 19 

Selection . . 27 

Shearing ....... ....... 36 

Shearing and Marketing Clipped Lambs ...... . . 61 

Sheep Barn . 56 

Sheep Found Healthy 18 

Sheep: Its History and Breeding and Problems of Production .... 9 

Sheep and High Priced Land ........... 21 

Shelter and How to Feed 57 

Shropshire ............... 13 

Sorting for the Market 52 

Southdown 12 

Starting Sheep On Green Feed ........... 50 

Stomach Worms ........ . . . . 38 

Suffolk 15 

Teaching Ewe to Own Lambs ........... 34 

Teaching Lambs to Eat 35 

25 Reasons Why Sheep Should Be Kept On the Farm 41 

Utilizing Cheap Roughage . . . . . . . . . . . .29 

Value of Sheep Fertilizer ............ 57 

Weaning 38 

When to Market. 49 



CHAPTER I 



THE SHEEP; ITS HISTORY, BREEDING; AND PROBLEMS 

OF PRODUCTION 



History of Sheep 

<<QHEEP," Webster says, "are among the most useful animals that 
O the Creator has bestowed on man, as its wool constitutes a prin- 
cipal material of warm clothing, and its flesh is a great article of food. 
The sheep is remarkable for its harmless temper and its timidity. The 
varieties are numerous." 






-•vw*^ »''»"• ^< 



They Have Turned This Once Wild and Weedy Pasture Into Blue Grass 

There is evidence that sheep were under domestication through east- 
ern countries in prehistoric times, for their bones have been found in 
caves and lake dwellings, where the people of those countries then lived. 
Rome developed a great deal of skill in handling her flocks, and sneep 
abounded in Spain prior to the Christian era. It is the first animal 
spoken of in the Bible, and we find the following, as well as many other 
records, showing that in early history sheep were domesticated, and that 
men were then using their flesh for food and their wool for clothing : 

Genesis 4 :2, "Abel was a keeper of sheep, but Cain was a tiller of 
the ground." 



10 Practical Sheep Husbandry 

Samuel 25:18, "Then Abigail took five sheep ready dressed," etc. 

Leviticus 13:47, "Whether it be a woolen garment or a linen gar- 
ment." 

Genesis 31:19, "and Laben went to shear his sheep." 

It is very interesting and striking to note the enormous number of 
sheep raised in Palestine in Biblical times. The following statement 
is made by Smith in his Bible dictionary: 

"Chardin says he saw a clan of Turcoman shepherds, whose flock 
consisted of 3,000,000 sheep and goats, besides 400,000 beasts of car- 
riage, as horses, asses and camels." 

Every bit of care and breeding that has been given the sheep in the 
past has tended to mould the sheep of today. The rat family really 
thrive and do better, looking after themselves, than they do with the 
best care man can give them, but sheep are just the opposite and re- 
quire attention. 

The sheep, since we have any record of it, has been under man's care, 
and so it is a law of their very nature to depend on man for their pro- 
tection. Looking back through their entire history, we find them folded 
at night, protected through the day, and feed, water, salt, etc., furnished 
them, and so today it is not the nature of sheep to look after themselves. 

It was the ancient custom for the shepherd to go before his flock, 
calling them to follow. 

John 10 :4, "And when he putteth forth his own sheep he goeth before 
them, and he calleth his own sheep by name and leadeth them out, and 
a stranger will they not follow, but will flee from him, for they know 
not the voice of strangers." 

Sheep respond quickly if called by their names, and a good shepherd 
can call one from a large flock and have it at his side at once by calling 
its name. However, they will not respond to a strange call, showing 
by this characteristic their educated love for their master. 

In early history the better classes considered sheep raising a very 
honorable occupation, and both sexes in some of the best families fol- 
lowed sheep husbandry. 

Exodus 2:16, "Now the priest of Midian had seven daughters, and 
they came and drew water to water their father's flocks, and the shep- 
herds came and drove them away, but Moses stood up and helped them." 

We also read that King David was a shepherd boy and many other 
noted men as well were shepherds. 

DEVELOPMENT OF THE DIFFERENT BREEDS 

The development of sheep, as they concern the people of today, 
began in England and Spain around the year 1000. At that time both 
countries were manifesting a great deal of interest in sheep develop- 
ment; and by the year 1500 they were recognized as the great sheep 
breeding countries of the world. 

The Merino 

Spain at a very early period developed the Merino, a small sheep, 
quite free from wrinkles. Its wool was very fine and its fleece of wool 
very heavy. The early record of the Merino forms an interesting chap- 



Sheep; Its History, Breeding, Production 



11 




ter in the history of sheep. Large flocks were moved from south to 
central Spain each spring, and returned again in the fall, the total dis- 
tance of these annual journeys 
being over a thousand miles. The 
rugged strength and endurance of 
these sheep was undoubtedly most 
strongly developed at this time. 
The Merino is a gregarious animal 
and the improved American Mer- 
ino shows the result of this in- 
heritance in its ability to exist in 
great flocks and to thrive and sub- 
sist under a great variety of cli- 
matic and other varied conditions. 
The Merino was introduced into 
this country as early as 1793, and 
An A Type Merino Ram since that time great progress has 

been made in the development of both its fleece and form. It is a wool 
bearing sheep, and its carcass does not produce much mutton, nor is it 
of a good quality, but because of its hardihood and great wool bearing 
qualities, it is now in great demand to cross on the coarser wooled breeds. 
Such great breeders as Humphrey, Atwood, Hammond and many others 
have done much towards developing this novel sheep. 

There have always been several types of the Merino, but I will only 
attempt to give the reader a vague idea of the most distinct types now 
in use, and they are the A, B and C types. The American Merino is a 
short legged, deep bodied sheep, mature rams in full fleece weighing 
around 120 to 170 pounds, ewes 85 to 130 pounds. Their wool is very 
fine, and suitable for making the finest clothing. The staple is short, 
and a twelve month's growth only measures about one and one-half 
inches in length, but owing to the great mass of folds or wrinkles in 
the skin, it presents a big surface for growing wool. A mature ram in 
twelve months will grow a fleece 
weighing from 25 to 30 pounds, 
ewes 15 to 20 pounds. The rams 
as a rule have heavy, spiral turned 
horns, and the ewes are hornless. 

The Delaine Merino is a type de- 
veloped for both wool and mutton, 
and it is quite free from wrinkles. 
It is larger than the A type and 
mature rams weigh from 150 to 
200 pounds, ewes 100 to 150. Their 
wool is fine, and in twelve months 
it will reach a length of about three 
inches. Rams will shear 15 to 25 
pounds of unwashed wool, ewes 10 
to 15 pounds. The rams are both 
horned and hornless, but the ewes 
have no horns. They do not have many twins and are slow to mature, 
but are noted for their rugged constitution and longevity. They are 




B Type Delaine Merino Ram 



12 



Practical Sheep Husbandry 



also noted for the dark exterior surface of their wool, caused by a free 
flowing yolk that hardens on the surface and turns black. 




The Rambouillet 



The Rambouillet is a still 
larger type than the Delaine or 
B type, and mature rams with a 
full fleece weigh around 225 to 
250 pounds, ewes 140 to 175. 
Their wool is rather coarse for 
the fine wool breeds, and in 
twelve months the fibre reaches 
a length of about three inches. 
Mature rams will shear about 15 
to 25 pounds of unwashed wool, 
ewes 10 to 18 pounds. The rams 
The ewes are hornless. The Rambouillet 
He is also a pretty good 



have large spiral turned horns 

is very prolific, robust and a good rustler. 

mutton sheep and is in favor with the big ranchman to breed on his 

grade flocks, to produce the rugged feeding lambs required at the market, 

as well as the desired mutton animal. 



THE ENGLISH MUTTON BREEDS 



The English mutton breeds which were developed in small flocks 
are opposite to the Merino in several characteristics. Good shelter, 
feed and care are a big part of their inheritance, so in this country, if 
we hope to attain the success obtained by the British shepherd, we must 
closely follow and improve on their methods. The English shepherd has 
always firmly believed that a different kind of sheep was required for 
different localities, and so England saw fit to develop several types that 
were distinctly different in size, wool and mutton. 



The first really great English breeder to come on the stage was Rob- 
ert Bakewell (1725-1794). Wool had declined in price to such an extent 
that raising sheep principally for the wool had become very unprofitable. 
Bakewell saw the need of a better mutton sheep, and set to work on a 
long, ungainly, coarse wooled, slow maturing sheep and crossed it with 
a smaller, finer wooled sheep. He was successful in developing an early 
maturing, compact, snugly built animal that was easy to fatten. He 
started a period of improvement in the breeding of sheep, such as the 
world had never seen. "Better mutton and better wool" was his slogan, 
and the breeders that followed him are to be commended highly in the 
success they attained. England today is the native home of nearly all of 
the modern mutton breeds, and flock-masters from all parts of the world 
still go there for their breeding stock. The following are the principal 
English mutton breeds that are found scattered more or less over this 
country. The American flock-master has done little or nothing towards 
improving the English mutton breeds. 



Sheep; Its History, Breeding, Production 



13 




The Southdown 



The Southdown 

The Southdown is one of the oldest of the Down breeds. It is a 
trim, compactly built, early maturing little animal, with a mouse brown 
colored face. Because of their early maturity and tendency to fatten 
and round into market condition early, they are especially recom- 
mended for early lambs. South- 
down rams are always in good de- 
mand to cross on all of the dif- 
ferent breeds. Mature rams in 
breeding condition weigh from 180 
to 220 pounds, ewes 130 to 160 
pounds. The quality of the mutton 
is par excellent. The two faults 
most severely criticised are their 
small size and light shearing ca- 
pacity. 

The Shropshire 

The Shropshire is similar to the 
Southdown in build, although larg- 
er and more stylish. The mature 
rams weigh from 200 to 250 lbs., 

ewes 150 to 180 lbs., average weight of fleece 8 to 10 lbs. No sheep is 

more prolific than the "Shrop." Their mutton is also excellent, but the 

lambs do not round out and fatten 

as early as the Southdown. The 

Shropshire is a very showy looking 

animal, and it is pretty safe to say 

that among the farmer flock-mas- 
ters there are none of the Down 

breeds more popular. They are a 

dark faced sheep, the wool coming 

well down over face and legs, and 

belly is also well covered. Their 

wool is dense and compact, and 

well adapted to turn the storms. 

The Hampshire 

The Hampshire is a bold, large 
sheep, with a long, deep symmetri- 
cal body, large bones and striking 
head features. Mature rams weigh 
250 to 300 pounds, ewes 180 to 220 
pounds. The head is large, face black with long, drooping ears. They 
mature very early, for a big sheep, and make rapid gains. Pure bred 
rams are always in demand from the commercial flock-master to cross 
with smaller breeds and grade flocks. They are prolific and thrive well 
if liberally fed. The ranchman is especially drawn to the Hampshire to 
cross on his grade Merino ewes, to produce large, early maturing lambs 
for the early summer and fall markets. They only shear about 8 pounds 
of unwashed wool. 




The Shropshire 



14 



Practical Sheep Husbandry 



The Cotswold 

The Cotswold is a large, coarse wooled sheep. The weight of fleece 
is from 10 to 14 pounds, mature rams weighing 275 to 400 pounds and 
even more, ewes 175 to 250 pounds. They are a very poor mutton sheep 
and hard to fatten. They are used mostly in this country for crossing 



' -'^- 


1^ 


V - '''' 


2 




■^ j 


i , "^^f^- 


^£? 




IJI^ 


mm>,. 


^ 


jmfp- ^ 


^bA 


m '^^VH 


r . 1 




"4 


^^my T 


'"2 


^K ' ■ 'e^l 


^^» 


^m Mi 


iM 


m 


ka:.^ 


^#V 


W 




1*8 






0} 




^p 


W^W-v- 





The Hampshire 

with the finer wooled sheep. In certain districts through the western 
range country, where good shelter is furnished through the winter 

months, the Cotswold is in favor 
in crossing on the Merino and 
grade flocks. Unless the breeder 
knows well what he is about, he 
had better leave the Cotswold 
alone, because the Cotswold sheep 
or lambs do not sell well on the 
market. The central and eastern 
states also discriminate against 
the open or loose wool sheep and 
lambs, because their fleece does not 
turn water well, and they are not 
so well adapted to running in the 
corn or other fall feeds as the 
closer, more compactly fleeced ani- 
mal. 

The Oxford Down 




A Cotswold Ram 



The Oxford Down was original- 
ly a cross between the Hampshire 
and Cotswold. It is a large, upstanding animal with a brown face. 
Their wool is quite dense and compact, average fleece weighing from 
10 to 12 pounds. The Oxford Down is the best of the Down breeds 
for producing wool. They do well on the average farm feeds, 
and because of their superior wool quality, recommend themselves 
highly to the average farmer. The writer especially favors them 



Sheep; Its History, Breeding, Production 



15 



for crossing on smaller breeds, or 
for up-breeding in a grade flock. 
They produce good mutton, are 
prolific, good milkers and make ex- 
cellent mothers. Average weight 
of ram is 275 to 300 pounds, ewe 
200 to 250 pounds. 

The Suffolk 

The Suffolk is about the size of 
the Shropshire. It has a black 
face, with no wool on face or legs, 
and very little on belly. It is a 
most excellent mutton sheep, but a 
small wool producer, average 
weight of fleece being 7 to 9 A" Oxford Ram 

pounds. It is very hardy, easy to fatten and very prolific. In England 





The Suffolk 

the Suffolk competes favorably with the other mutton breeds. Little is 
known of it in this country, but probably it would be to our advantage 
to know more about it. 

The Dorset Horn 

The Dorset Horn is really a Down breed, but most strikingly dif- 
ferent from most of them, because of its horns and white face. It is 
a very strong, rugged sheep, mature rams weighing 250 to 300 pounds, 
ewes 150 to 200 pounds. The wool is short and the average weight 
of the fleece is only about 7 pounds. The quality of the mutton is only 
fair and the carcass, especially in the matured sheep, is inclined to 
be a little coarse. They are especially famous for their habit of breeding 
early. They have a large number of twins, and it is possible to get 
two crops of lambs from one set of ewes in 12 months. Lambs grow 



16 



Practical Sheep Husbandry 



rapidly, and for early marketing are all right. They are also recom- 
mended to be crossed with the Southdown or Shrop. 




The Dorset Horn 



The Cheviot 




A Pair of Cheviots 



Sheep; Its History, Breeding, Production 



17 



The Cheviot is a small, neatly built animal, with no wool on head 
or legs, average weight of mature rams around 170 pounds, and ewes 
130 to 150 pounds. The Cheviot is a white faced sheep, ears small and 
erect, fleece weighing from 6 to 8 pounds. They are a very hardy 
sheep and distinctly a grazing breed, fattening quicker on grass than in 
the feed lot. The ewes are prolific, and while the lambs are very vigr 
orous and seldom chill and die when born out of doors, they do not 
mature and attain weight and finish quite as fast as some of the Down 
breeds. The Cheviots are used mostly in this country in crossing with 
the Oxford, Lincoln and other 
larger breeds, the cross producing 
the kind of mutton sheep or lamb 
most in demand on the American 
market. 

The Leicester 

The Leicester is a white faced 
sheep, with rather coarse wool, in- 
clined to be twisted and curly. Ma- 
ture rams weigh from 225 to 250 
pounds, ewes 175 to 200 pounds. 
The mutton is rather coarse, and 
they require a great deal of care 
and do not mature and fatten as 
rapidly as the Down breeds. They are used mostly for crossing with 
the Merino, the cross producing the quality that is desirable in good, 
thrifty feeders and handy weight muttons. 



^^^F ^^^ 




W_ 


%^ }^m 




Hra^K"* * 


'^ 


fL2£^t 


^f'""i 


^^^H 


1^*^ i '^Mi*, ^* 


,Z^-"J^ :f'-m 



Leicester 




The Lincoln 

The Lincoln is a large, robust 
appearing animal, with firm flesh, 
and from brisket to twist, carcass 
is thick and heavy, and in these 
respects it is not surpassed by any 
breed. The wool is very long and 
coarse, the staple often growing to 
a length of 12 inches in 12 months, 
and fleece weighing 12 to 15 
pounds. Mature rams weigh 
around 300 pounds, ewes about 250 
pounds. The breed, as pure bloods, 
is not in demand on the American 
mutton market, but is very valu- 
able in crossing with the Merino 
and other smaller fine wooled sheep. 



Lincoln 



The Romney Marsh 



The Romney Marsh is a large, rugged, rather low set sheep, noted 



18 



Practical Sheep Husbandry 




for its hardy constitution and strength of bone. It belongs to the 
coarser wooled family, but the wool is finer and thicker than the Cots- 
wold or Lincoln. It is considered 
one of the best lowland sheep 
known, fattens well on pasture, 
and crosses well with the South- 
down, Hampshire or Merino. The 
Romney Marsh is gaining ground 
in the United States wherever it 
has been introduced, and will likely 
fill a greater place as it becomes 
more generally known in this 
country. 

Sheep Found Healthy 

I am convinced that the pres- 
ent rather unfavorable reputation 
of sheep in this country is the re- 
sult of false education and lack of 
knowledge regarding them. It will 
be my idea to touch lightly on the physical condition of the sheep, al- 
though I will try to show by conclusive evidence that it is one of the 
most healthy animals known to man. I will deal largely with the facts 
necessary to the sheep producer to insure success. If I seem to tear down 
and condemn certain methods, I wish it understood that it is not in a 
spirit of condemnation, and that my intention will be to point out a 
better way. There is a mistaken idea that needs correcting, and this 
is the generally accepted theory that sheep are sickly, when in fact just 
the opposite is the truth. It may interest the reader to learn that the 
U. S. Government reports, under its system of inspection at the big 
packing plants, where every carcass of cattle, swine and sheep is 
inspected separately, the condemnation of sheep to be practically nil. 
Think of it, almost a one hundred per cent health verdict rendered by the 
medical fraternity! This knowledge forces us to give the lie to the 
theory that sheep are sickly. We have, then, a perfectly healthy animal 
to start with ; this much must be admitted by all. The verdict then is : 
"Mr. Sheep, you are not guilty." The blame must then be placed where it 
belongs. This we will try to do, regardless of who it may hit. 



Romney Marsh 



On the Market 



It is necessary that we go to the market to get first hand informa- 
tion regarding the sheep industry in this country. As a salesman on 
the Chicago market, I have been favored with rather an exceptional 
opportunity to observe the progress the mutton making industry has 
made throughout the country. During the past fall and winter (1918- 
1919), the central states feeders' and farmers' marketable product was 
deplorably bad ; in fact, during the past few years, there has sprung up 
a class of feeders and producers that has done the sheep business more 
harm than good. When the "more sheep, more wool" agitation started 



Sheep; Its History, Breeding, Production 19 

a few years ago, every Tom, Dick and Harry got busy writing articles 
on the gospel of more sheep and wool. They jumped on the fact that 
sheep are the best plant scavengers on earth and rode it to death. 

The Ranchman 

It is the custom and practise of the big ranchmen of Idaho, Mon- 
tana, Nevada, Utah, Washington and Wyoming to ship their product 
to market mostly during the months of July, August, September, 
October and November. Some of their sheep and lambs get quite fat 
on that very nutritious buffalo grass, found on the western range. 
There are some tame pasture lands, and a great deal of alfalfa is being 
grown, as well as roots for winter feeding. A big per cent of their 
shipments consist of sheep and lambs in what we term "feeder ilesh." 
These must go out through the corn belt regions and be fattened and 
finished for market. During the years I have spent on this market, I 
have bought and sold many thousands of these sheep and lambs, and 
can report that as a whole, they were a strictly healthy lot. 

Same Problem But Different Answers 

I wish to give an example to show what good care and thoughtful 
management will do, in comparison with negligence and carelessness. 
A short time ago I purchased a band of very choice western breeding 
ewes, which were divided between two men, one bunch going to Indiana 
and the other to Illinois. The ewes cost $11.50 on the Chicago market. 
One of these men shipped his lambs to market from these ewes, and 
they sold for $17.80 a head. He also sold $5.00 worth of wool per head 
from his ewes, making a total of $22.80 per head to remunerate him for 
the care and feed given his flock for one year. This is only figuring one 
lamb to the ewe, or one hundred per cent, whereas good shepherds figure 
around one hundred and fifteen to one hundred and twenty-five per cent 
and even higher. The male lambs were castrated and all had been 
docked. They were a mighty fine looking lot. 

The other gentleman called me to his place during the early summer. 
I found his ewes, about four hundred, running in a cutover or brush 
pasture, With lambs at their sides. There was not enough feed in that 
pasture, if it had been stewed down, to have furnished nourishment for 
one ewe and a pair of lambs. The ewes were thin and weak, the lambs 
were also scrawny, and they did look like a sickly lot. I said to him: 
"You haven't any feed in this wild pasture that will produce milk on 
which to raise a lamb." He said he was feeding some silage, so I asked 
him concerning its quality and condition, and learned that it was mil- 
dewed and sour, therefore poisonous. He said that he had called the 
veterinarian and they had examined several of these sheep and lambs 
that had died, and they had found a condition in the stomach, which 
he called something, I have forgotten what. The veterinarians recom- 
mended that a vaccine be prepared and the entire flock vaccinated at 
once. I do not know whether this was done, but I remember saying to 
myself that if I was eating sour and poisonous food and was about 
starved, weak and sick, and carrying a heavy load, as were those ewes. 



20 Practical Sheep Husbandry 

and some one would say that such food was not the thing for me to eat, 
I would cut it out, and get some good, nutritious food, and let Nature 
do the rest. 

So I said to him : "Why shoot any more poison into them, when they 
are full of it now? Put them on a good, tame pasture, bring them to the 
house at night, give j^our ewes and lambs a little grain and they will 
come out of this in a hurry." But, suffice it to say, he did not take my 
advice, as he could see only the result before him, a diseased sheep, 
because the doctor had so informed him. He shipped them to market, 
I mean the ones he hadn't finished killing. The lambs weighed about 
thirty-five to forty pounds, were thin as rails, and sold at a low price. 
His ewes also brought ruinous prices, because they were thin and looked 
bad. 

These men started with the same kind of sheep, practically the same 
sheep, but one of them could only see the result and a way of doctoring 
it, while the other reasoned from cause to effect. The first man un- 
doubtedly said at the beginning: "I have a fine, healthy lot of ewes, 
and there is a right result or answer to this problem I have before 
me. If I obtain the right result I will want credit for it, and if I make 
a mistake and get the wrong answer, I will accept the blame also." He 
watched his sheep closely and the minute one of them started going 
wrong, he knew it and set to work to find the cause and to remove it. 
The results show that he was successful. If the cause is removed, 
"Doc Nature" will be right there on the job to attend to the health end 
of it, for that is one of the best things he does, if not interfered with 
by man. 

Must Give Value Received 

Every day, somewhere on the market, may be found the man, who 
though honest enough, has fooled himself, because he did not have 
uppermost in his mind the desire to give good value. His stuff is not 
good, and he knows it, and yet he hopes to receive just as good a price 
as the fellow who has produced the goods. The good feeder always has 
him beat. He gets a much bigger gain for the feed consumed, and 
of course gets paid for a great many more pounds. It has been noticed 
that the good feeder who is just as anxious for his stuff to dress out 
well as the buyer, is always the prosperous feeder. He knows that if 
he slips by once he will get caught the next time. 

Problem of Reconstruction 

It is the duty of every man to carefully weigh any situation, and 
enter no new field blindly. The question of reconstruction is being 
given thought, and every man is asking himself what part he will play 
in the readjustment. In answering this query for the sheep producer, 
I think I can safely say that it will be a very great one. Better clothes 
will be demanded by a more prosperous world, and more wool can be 
the only answer to this demand. 

The producer can expect greater demands for his products, as the 
people of the world still have to eat and wear clothes, and there is 
nothing that will surpass either mutton or lamb for food, or wool for 



Sheep; Its History, Breeding, Production 21 

clothing. What other animal or product offers so much and meets so 
great a need? Yes, Mr. Sheepman, your goods will be needed, and you 
can rightly expect good prices for them. Of course prices are sure to 
conform to a certain extent to those received for other commodities. 
Competition in business is sure to be keen, and the most successful in 
any business will be those who can produce the best quality at the low- 
est possible cost. 

Sheep and High Priced Land 

We hear some talk of land being too high for raising sheep. This 
is a false idea, and is contradicted emphatically by the facts. England, 
with land ranging from $500 to $2,000 per acre, is forced to raise sheep 
because of her high priced land. She produces several times as many 
sheep per acre as we do, and much better ones. Small farmers especially 
should grow more roots, as greater yields can be obtained per acre in 
this way. (See methods of British farmers, in chapter on dry lot 
feeding. ) 

Rationing Simplified 

The rationing of feed to sheep or lambs is one of the biggest prob- 
lems for the laymen, but it is not so difficult. There is a method to be 
pursued by the inexperienced sheep feeder that is pretty safe, and he 
had better follow it until he becomes an expert, and is able to detect any 
irregularities among his sheep, caused by improper feeding. An abund- 
ance of roughage should be kept before the sheep, such as clover or 
alfalfa hay or grasses. If sheep or lambs have access to all the good, 
clean, dry . roughage they can eat, they will do their own rationing. 
Great care should always be exercised in starting sheep on feed. (See 
chapter on dry lot feeding.) 

Experience of lowra Farmer 

A little story told me the other day exemplifies my theory quite well, 
so I will relate it here. A friend of mine was called to see some sheep 
in Iowa. They were yearling wethers, running in a corn field, a nice lot 
of stuflf which had been doing fine, but at that time were dying fast. 
The farmer was very much alarmed, and said : "I can't understand this 
at all. Thev are getting good water and salt, and are running in the 
same field they were put in when I got them." My friend said: "I 
can tell you mighty quick where the trouble lies. This is big corn, the 
ears are well up on the stalk, the corn blades are all gone, as well as the 
grass, weeds and everything else, with the exception of the corn. All 
these sheep have to eat is corn, and it is killing them. Do those clover 
hay stacks in the adjoining field belong to you ?" "Yes," was the answer. 
"Then," said my friend, "haul some of it out where these sheep can have 
all they want of it, and you vnll have no more loss," and he did not. 

Beginners and Their Responsibilities 

In starting beginners in the business, it is always my policy to 
impress them with the importance of their responsibilities. I have 



22 Practical Sheep Husbandry 

noticed that the successful ones always accepted their responsibility 
and did not cry over its demands. It is requisite and imperative that 
the shepherd, or master, should be just as willing to "Daddy" the mis- 
takes and failures, as he is the successes and rewards. Unless the begm- 
ner can accept this all important working formula, I advise him to let 
sheep alone. An acute sense of observation is important, but can only 
be acquired through practise and the desire to succeed. 

More Facts Needed 

The old school of plodders is fast dying out, and men are accept- 
ing their responsibilities. Beliefs, theories, practises and blind faiths 
are giving place to knowledge, and men are fast learning to look for 
the exact cause of every difficulty, and ceasing to be blinded by a result 
which they cannot understand. Not long ago, a bridge in the process of 
construction, valued at many millions of dollars, fell into the St. Lawr- 
ence river. There is little room for doubt regarding the honesty of the 
engineer who planned the bridge. His faith was probably 100 per 
cent pure, but all must admit that he was greatly in need of more facts, 
and that his faith, however strong, did not save his bridge. 

Development of the Western Flock 

There are several reasons why I am addressing myself principally 
to the corn belt section of the U. S. First because the ranchman has 
made wonderful progress in the development of his flocks, to meet the 
market demands, during the last fifteen years, also the ranchman has 
imported some of the best pure bred rams and has brought his flock 
up from the old Merino, a good foundation sheep, to a mighty good com- 
bination wool and mutton animal. The old inbred, white livered, deli- 
cately constituted sheep of a few years ago has nearly disappeared 
from the western range. Last year there were sold on fifteen dif- 
ferent markets a total of 14,929,369 sheep. Out of this grand total, it 
is pretty safe to estimate that the ranchman contributed sixty to sev- 
enty per cent. We received on the Chicago market during 1918, 4,629,- 
736 sheep, and by far the greater part were range grown. Out of this 
number, 968,000 feeding sheep and lambs and breeding ewes were 
shipped to the adjacent country around Chicago to be bred and fat- 
tened for market. A big per cent of the ranchman's shipments were 
fat and good enough for the killers, and the ones not fat enough to kill 
were, in the main, a fine quality lot of stuff. 

Quality of Western Sheep 

It is an easy matter, during the fall months, to buy a uniform band 
of feeding sheep or lambs, all one age and about the same weight. The 
sheep and lambs direct from the range are, as a whole, an almost ideal 
lot of feeders. They are bright eyed, rugged, thrifty and healthy look- 
ing. Some of them are taken out by good shepherds who like sheep, 
and they fatten and finish them and put them back on the market, a 
better bunch of stuff than when they were taken out. The finish has 
improved the quality. A large per cent of these fine feeders, however. 



Sheep; Its History, Breeding, Production 



23 



are taken out by men who know nothing about sheep, and care less. 
They take these sheep home and turn them loose on whatever rough- 




it is the Duty of this Range Herder to Find the Best Grazing for His Flock and 
Otherwise Look After Their Needs 

age they have, and when it is gone, ship them back to market. Some 
of these sheep land on pretty good feed and get fat, but a good many 
are not so fortunate, and they come back to market not much better 
than when they went out. 

Commendable Efforts 



There is a concerted effort being made at this time by the U. S. Gov- 
ernment, the various states and other interests to overcome this evil 
with education of the right sort. Our own yard company is extending 
itself nobly at this time. New sheep docks are being built, and a sys- 
tem of unloading directly out of the cars into the sheep house is al- 
ready in operation, that promises great improvement over the old 
system. An overhead tractor and trailer system just installed, by 
which hay is delivered to the various alleys through the three large 
sheep barns, is very advantageous to the sheep shipper. The best 
clover hay and alfalfa can be selected and stored in this overhead run- 
way and can be delivered and fed on short notice. It also prevents 
injuring or shrinking sheep, which was often done by the old system 
of team and wagon. 

All Up to American Farmers 

' The ranchman has nearly reached his maximum of production, so 
it is all up to the corn belt farmer to come to the front and do his part. 



24 



Practical Sheep Husbandry 




i. 



n 



% ■ 



if 





1 

r 






1 


»' 


i; 


»% 


1. 




J 


"i 






4 


1 



If 





CHAPTER II 



MANAGING THE FARM FLOCK 



Charged to the Wrong Account 

THE sheep has been rightly called the "Golden Hoofed Animal," and 
because it does give so much, one would suppose men would make 
the most of this fact, but not so. The things that come easy to men, or 
that are given to them, they do not appreciate, and the man who spends 
his life aiding his fellowman is seldom respected as much as the selfish 
millionaire. 




A Good Flock is One of the Assets of This Farm 

Mortals try all the hard ways first. They have tried to make sheep 
a success by first charging to the sheep's account all of their own mis- 
takes and calling them diseases. A noted Englishman, Professor 
Huxley, has well said: "Humanity presents no more pitiable aspect 
than that afforded by its disposition persistently to resist every foot- 
step of its own progress." 



26 Practical Sheep Husbandry 

Sheep are healthy and will give back more for the good care and 
treatment accorded them than any other animal in the world, but if 
they are mistreated they will give nothing. 

Good Advice 

John Fitzgerald says: "Every quarter section of corn belt land is 
capable of furnishing the feed for a iiock of 40 ewes and their produce, 
without interfering with the present system of management. Think 
what the returns from a flock of 40 good ewes, rightly managed, would 
mean to a farm. Remember, when you see a thing that needs to be done 
for a flock of sheep, that it should be done RIGHT NOW, as tomorrow 
may be too late. It may be truthfully said that carefully watching and 
doing the little things at the right time means everything in handling 
sheep. They are capable of paying greater dividends than any other 
animal, but an irritable, impatient sort of person cannot make a suc- 
cess with them." 

The complaints have been many and varied in regard to the quality 
of sheep produced by the average farmer, and I believe if he really 
knew what a bad job he has been doing in the sheep producing line, he 
would try to make amends. We often hear the remark on the market : 
"What a trashy lot of natives!" The bulk of them come to market 
weighing from 40 to 140 pounds, uncastrated, part fat and part lean, 
with no semblance of uniformity or breeding. 

Big, coarse, bucky. lambs are not the best meat ; neither are the 
thousands of thin, cull native lambs and old, thin cull ewes that have 
to be slaughtered, because a feeder will not buy them. Is it any won- 
der that the consumer balks at such meat and refuses to eat it ; thereby 
causing severe fluctuations in the market? This deplorably bad situa- 
tion will not improve until the man who keeps sheep on the farm refuses 
to raise them in a haphazard fashion. There are a few good producers 
but they are at present decidedly in the minority. 

The ram should be kept separate and placed with the ewes at a 
certain time, so the lambs will come at a regular period and all be about 
the same age. Castrating and docking should be attended to vdthout 
fail, and good feed should be provided for the ewes during winter 
months. Good, early grasses and feeds should be provided for the lambs, 
and they should be pushed along with a definite marketing time in view, 
instead of any time in the future that happens to suit, or whenever 
circumstances force their marketing. I would like to see more good 
sheep producers in the business, men who will give their sheep a major 
place on their farm, but we need far less of the cull and buck lamb 
variety. 

I propose to point out in this chapter a good business type of ewe, 
that will produce the lambs required on the market, if bred to most any 
of the pure bred rams of the breeds mentioned in the former chapter, 
and the condition that ewe and ram should be in at mating to insure a 
big per cent of lambs ; feed required for the winter flock, preparing for 
the lambing season, lambing, shearing, producing and marketing the 
early lamb, caring for the summer flock, etc. 

Any one wishing to breed pure blood sheep receives my hearty ap- 



Managing the Farm Flock 27 

proval, for I believe this country will need more and better bred sheep, 
and that the business will be profitable, but I am not dealing with that 
phase of the industry in this book, because I have not the space to point 
out the good and bad qualities of each breed, nor how to select and weed 
out for points peculiar to each breed, as well as crossing, and even in- 
breeding necessary to develop and bring forth certain qualities. 

Selection 

To the man who feels he would like to own sheep and do them jus- 
tice, I offer the following suggestions for selecting breeding ewes and 

rams. 

Select ewes that are: 

(a) Broad backed, vroll grown and lively on their feet. 

(b) Sound of teeth and milking organs; examine carefully for hard 
lumps in udders. 

(c) From one to six years old. 

(d) Covered with dense, compact coat of wool ; belly and legs should 
be well covered. 

(e) Uniform in size and breeding. 

If ewes meet with above descriptions, it makes no difference 
whether they are white or black face, native or western. 

Get a ram that is wide awake, bold and strong in constitution, pure 
bred if possible, active, vigorous, from one to three years old, symmetri- 
cal and well developed, not too fine a bone, well wooled and straight in 
legs. 

The selection of breeding ewes is no small matter, and the best are 
always the cheapest, for a good ewe will eat no more than a poor one. 
No ewe kept for commercial purposes should shear less than eight 
pounds of wool. My experience has taught me to favor the western 
ewe showing a little Merino blood, if more than 200 are to be kept in 
one flock. Western ewes are generally marketed by ages, so with a 
little care, any aged ewe can be had. They are generally uniform in size, 
a little hardier than natives, and if direct from the western ranches, 
you can be sure they are in fine physical condition. 

Number to Buy 

In reference to the number to buy, all depends on the buyer, the 
amount of pasture, shed room and his facilities for handling them 
properly. I would suggest, however, that a sufficient number be bought, 
so the investment will be adequate to insure the interest of the shep- 
herd, thereby forcing him to produce the quality of wool and mutton 
that will net him good returns. 

Age 

Regarding the ages to buy, there is no definite advice to be given. 
If purchaser intends to stay in the business more than one year, he 
should buy a good, young set of ewes. The writer has a big following 



28 Pkactical Sheep Husbandry 

of experienced sheep men through the central states, who favor the 
older ewe. They buy an old, solid toothed set of ewes, strictly heavy 
shearers, big of frame and strong, and breed them to a pure bred ram. 
In selecting old ewes, the ewes' teeth must be carefully examined, 
udders examined for lumps, other defects, etc. Old ewes make good 
mothers and throw and raise a big per cent of lambs. These men get 
a fresh set of ewes every fall. The quality of the lambs, from a mar- 
ket standpoint, is excellent, and if fat, they sell at top prices. 

Farm Flock Reommended 

I do not favor the latter system of laising sheep, although it is all 
right and a money maker. This man must send his ewes back to mar- 
ket fat, as they are too old to go to the country again. These old ewes 
he has to keep through until fall, so for a short time he has two sets 
of ewes on his place, his fresh set and the old ones, that are kept to be 
made fat on the late fall feeds. My advice to the layman is to buy a 
younger set of ewe£, allot them a place on his farm and breed them 
up from year to year. He will soon learn to love his flock, take pride 
in it, and to be ever zealous for its welfare. The possibilities of money 
making are just as great, or greater, than the other way, but aside from 
this, there is that about developing and bringing an article up to a cer- 
tain state of perfection that is gratifying to any producer. Just get- 
ting money does not constitute successful achievement. The gambler 
may be in possession of a lot of money, but I never knew one who was 
really happy. To produce something that will be of benefit to one's 
fellowman spells success. 

Most Important Periods 

One often reads or hears someone say something regarding the 
most important period between the mating of the ewe and the market- 
ing of the lamb. It is my contention that there is no most important 
period. There is no numljer from 1 to 9 that is most important. We 
have feeders who are "cracker jacks" six days out of the week, but are 
failures because they miss one day. 

Mating 

I will try to cover the whole period, and while, for lack of space, I 
can only touch each period, I will try to give the reader a few important 
fundamentals. 

(a) Ewes should be in flushed or gaining condition when ram is 
placed with them. 

(b) Shear ewes around the rear parts and see that dung does not 
collect there. 

(c) Ewes should be dipped at least a month before mating. 

(d) Use one good, strong, young ram with every twenty-five to 
forty ewes. 

(e) Feed the ram a pound of grain each day. 



Managing the Farm Flock 



29 



(f ) Keep a record of the time when the ram is turned in with the 
ewes and when taken away and allow a hundred and forty-five days 
from mating to lambing. 

(g) Ram will serve more ewes if separated from the ewes during 
the day, but wethers should be placed with him, so he will not fret. 

(h) By placing a bib on a common ram, he may be used as a teaser 
during the day and save the good ram from working through the flock. 

Pregnancy 

During the period of pregnancy, ewes should gain fifteen to twenty- 
five pounds. Utilize cheap roughage, corn fodder, clover hay, well 




Utilizing Cheap Roughage 



matured corn ensilage, roots, etc. Grain should be gradually added to 
roughage, a month to six weeks before lambing, and during this time 
ewes should have plenty of leguminous hay and very little ensilage, 
none if it is mildewed or sour. 

The following tables may be used as a guide for rationing ewes 
during pregnancy. Ewes weighing one hundred pounds were used in 
this test. Grain ration should be" increased or decreased with the 
weather, and there is always more danger of overfeeding than not 
feeding enough. 

The following rations have been fed to pregnant ewes by the Illi- 
nois Station. Where pasture and corn stalks were used, the ewes 
were not fed hay and grain each day. (The figures represent pounds 
of feed or of gain per ewe per day. ) 



30 Practical Sheep Husbandry 

Feed for 100-Pound Ewe Feed for 115-Pound Ewe 



RATION I 

Corn silage 9 

Clover hay 2.0 

Daily gain 

RATION II 

Corn silage 2 

Clover hay 4 

Pasture in clover and in corn 
stalks 

Daily gain 

RATION III 

Corn silage 5 

Clover hay 7 

Pasture in corn stalks 



.06 



Daily gain 



.07 



RATION IV 

Shelled com 25 

Alfalfa hay 2.50 

Daily gain .17 

RATION V 

Shelled corn 30 

Alfalfa hay 1.50 

Oat stravir 1.25 

Daily gain .08 

RATION VI 

Shelled com 06 

Alfalfa hay 80 

Oat straw 25 

Blue grass pasture and com 
stalks 

Daily gain .07 



Since starting to write this book, I have consulted a number of 
successful sheep producers, and they as a whole advocate against feed- 
ing ensilage to pregnant ewes, during the month or six weeks previous 
to lambing. They claim that the ewes are inclined to lose their lambs, 
and that neither ewe nor lamb is strong at time of birth. No doubt poor 
ensilage was cause of complaints. Roots in limited quantities are con- 
sidered by many good shepherds to be a good feed for pregnant ewes. 

During pregnancy, or through the winter months, ewes should not 
be kept housed. They should have plenty of exercise and the shed or 
barn they are housed in at night or on stormy, winter days, should 
always be well bedded, dry and well ventilated, to avoid drafts. They 
should have clean, pure water in abundance and access to salt. 

Henry reports that Carlyle and Kleinheinz at the Wisconsin station 
recorded the amount of feed eaten by well-fed, pregnant Shropshire, 
Dorset, Southdown, Merino and Shropshire-Merino ewes, ranging in 
weights from 138 pounds to 157 pounds each at the beginning of the 
trial. The ewes were divided evenly as to size and breed into lots of 
12. The mixed grain fed consisted of equal parts of corn, oats and bran. 

The corn forage consisted of corn fodder and corn stover. The 
table shows the average amount of feed consumed daily by each ewe 
during the winter and the average daily gain of each lot. 

Feed required to maintain a breeding ewe one (1) day in winter: 



SINGLE TRIAL LOT I 

Shelled corn 5 

Mixed hay 2.0 

Corn silage 2.5 

Av. daily gain .23 

SINGLE TRIAL LOT II 

Whole oats 5 

Mixed hay 2.0 

Corn silage 2.5 

Av. daily gain .23 



SINGLE TRIAL LOT III 

Wheat bran 5 

Mixed hay 2.0 

Corn silage 2.5 

Av. daily gain .20 

SINGLE TRIAL LOT IV 

Dried brewers grain 5 

Mixed hay 2.0 

Corn silage 2.5 

Av. daily gain .24 



Managing the Farm Flock 



31 



SINGLE TRIAL LOT V 

Mixed grain 5 

Com forage 3.3 



Av. daily gain 



SINGLE TRIAL LOT VI 

Mixed grain 5 

Corn silage 2.9 

Mixed hay 2.1 - 

.19 Av. daily gain .16 

SINGLE TRIAL LOT VII 

Mixed grain 5 

Roots 2.9 

Mixed hay 2.6 

Av. daily gain .18 

All rations tested were highly satisfactory. The daily cost of main- 
taining these large ewes was 2c per head or less, according to value of 
feeds used. In previous trials at the Wisconsin station, Craig consid- 
ers Alsike Clover hay one of the best dry roughages, as it was eaten 
with relish and with small waste. Corn fodder and oat hay also proved 
satisfactory. 

Preparation for Lambing 

(a). In preparing for the lambing season, farm work should be 
planned so that the shepherd can keep a close watch over the flocks 
both day and night. 

(b) Ewes that are about due to lamb should be kept away from 
other live stock as large animals may injure them. Hogs greedily 
devour young lambs. 

(c) In cold weather provide warm quarters, well bedded with a 
south exposure, as sunshine is important. Ewes should have plenty 
of room to avoid crowding, and openings, small gates, etc., should be 
closed, through which ewes heavy with lamb might squeeze and injure 











^ ■ , ,;^<«^-^i«,:.J^--:r:— ■.' [i^^^. 



Our Little Friends Takinir a Sun Bath 

themselves or the lambs. Small openings through which young lambs 
might creep and wander away should also be closed up. 



32 



Practical Sheep Husbandry 




This detachable lamhing pen hing^ed together 
may be hooked to the wall, other pens may be 
added as needed, one end being hooked to the 
comer of last pen and the other to the wall. 
After lambing panels may then be folded and 
stored until the next season. 



(d) A portable lambing pen 4x4 
or 4x6 is the best place for a ewe 
and lamb until the lamb is two or 
three days old and the mother owns 
it. Several of these should be pro- 
vided. There should also be pro- 
vided a place well bedded and dry, 
where ewes and their lambs may 
be together, until the lambs are 
10 days to two weeks old, when 
they can be turned loose. 

(e) It is well to have castor 
oil, linseed oil or vaseline to be used 
on the hand when entering the ewe 
to give assistance ; also nipples are 
requisite for feeding milk to young 
lambs. 

Lambing 

When the ewe is giving birth to the lamb, do not disturb her so 
long as everything seems to be going well. Be very sure she must have 
help, and give time for much laboring before assistance is attempted. 
Then learn what position the lamb is in. The natural delivery is made 
fore feet first, nose lying snugly on fore feet, or it may be delivered 
hind feet first. Before entering ewe to get lamb into proper position, 

the hands should be per- 
fectly clean, with finger 
nails cut very short to avoid 
scratching or cutting ten- 
der membrane of the ewe. 
"Cleanliness is next to god- 
liness." Smear the hand 
well with vaseline or oil. 
Care should be taken not to 
tear the parts of the ewe. 
After quietly and patiently 
working the lamb into posi- 
tion, pull very steadily on 
the lamb, slightly down- 
ward, and pull when the 
ewe labors. Be sure to keep 
the head coming with the 
fore feet until the nose is 
exposed. 

Care of E.we and Lambs 

After the lamb is born, 
give the ewe close attention 
for several days. Note 
Ti, I Kiw.ciTjKuj «,!-•. .u c „ whether she casts after- 

These Lambs Must Be Fed by Hand, While the Swollen i • , i i 1,1 ^ 

Udder is Being Cared for birth, and Whether her 




Managing the Farm Flock 



33 



bowels are normal. Examine her udder, and milk her if the lamb does 
not take all the milk. Give her all the pure water she wants, but not 
in large quantities, unless it can be kept before her all the time. She 
should have good feed, such as clover hay and oats, but not much grain 
for two or three days. After the lamb is a week old, the ewe must have 
plenty of good feed, until grass. Wool locks should be clipped from the 
milking organs, so young lambs will not be sucking one of them instead 
of the teat. 

The shepherd need not be worried if the ewe refuses to eat immedi- 
ately after lambing. If sheep receive good feed and have plenty of 
exercise, health will be good or normal, but if the bowels should become 
irregular from improper care or feeding and there seems to be an imme- 
diate need, one-third pint of raw linseed oil may be given, or more if 
needed. 

A ewe torn inwardly, or failing to cast afterbirth should be washed 
out daily with injections of boiled water, after the water has cooled. 
Ewes with swollen udders should be removed to comfortable quarters 
and carefully milked. Their lambs should be fed by hand on warmed 
cow's milk until the udder is normal, to avoid poisoning the lamb. The 
lamb should be kept in an adjoining pen where the mother can see it 
and smell it, otherwise she may disown it. If the lamb's teeth make 
the teats sore, the ewe should be milked, and soft soap may be rubbed 
on the teats to keep the lambs from injuring them, or the lamb taken 
from the ewe for a few days, until the teats are healed up. 

When the lamb is born, place it and the mother in a small pen. 
Little attention need be given the 
strong lamb whose mother has 
plenty of milk. If the ewe has no 
milk, it is best to take a little from 
one that has more than enough for 
her own lamb. The next best thing 
is to feed whole cow's milk, using 
about two tablespoonsful every two 
or three hours. The milk should be 
warmed, and to accomplish this, 
place a bottle in a pail of hot water. 
Pail and bottle should be taken to 
where lamb is to be fed, and the 
milk should not be hot, just milk 
warm. 

Chilled Lamb 



If the lamb is weak, get it to 
nurse as soon as possible by hold- 
ing it to the teat. If it refuses to 
nurse, then feed it until it gains in 
strength and develops an appetite. 
If the lamb is chilled, place all but 
the head in warm water and keep 
pouring in more as the water cools, 




Taking Care of the Orphans is Onljr One of the 

Things Necessary to Save a Big 

Per Cent of Lambs 



34 



Practical Sheep Husbandry 



to keep the temperature up so one's hand is comfortable in the water. 
When lamb becomes somewhat lively, rub it dry with a coarse cloth, 
wrap all but its nose in a blanket or thick cloth, feed it, and place it in 
a warm place to sleep. Keep it away from its mother no longer than is 
necessary. It is best to wrap a lamb with cloth, that is to be placed in 
artificially heated quarters. 

Teaching Ewe to Own Lamb 

If ewe disowns lamb, shepherd must get her to own it. Try smear- 
ing on her own nose and the rump of the lamb some of her own milk. 
When the lambs are twins and the ewe disowns one or both, then both 
lambs should be kept in an adjoining pen where the ewe can see them, 
and both placed with the mother at the same time, so that in her 
anxiety to let the one that she owns nurse, she will let the other one 
nurse also. If ewe with good supply of milk is left without a lamb, 
she should be employed to nurse one not getting enough milk from its 
own mother, or to adopt an orphan. Sometimes removing the skin from 
the dead lamb of the intended mother and placing it on the back of the 
stranger is effectual ; again to rub the lamb under the ewe's tail does 
the work. Keeping ewe away from water for a few hours and rubbing 
the lamb with salt is advocated as effectual. 



Remedy Must Be Found in Cause 

The different remedies advocated to cure through medicine, the 
various so-called diseases or troubles among young lambs or sheep will 
receive no consideration from me, inasmuch as the methods pursued by 
different doctors are so varied and contradictory. I agree with the 
doctors when their advice is that the least medicine or drugs given 
the better. Sheep require a variety of feeds, and a strong argument in 
favor of changing sheep from pasture to pasture is that it gives them 
a variety, and an opportunity to obtain the food they want. Give your 
sheep good, clean, wholesome food, pure water, dry sanitary shelter, 
and if trouble does present itself, find the cause and remove it and the 
result or disease will vanish in short order. I have every consideration 

for the feelings and beliefs 
of my f ellowman, and would 
not advise any man to quit 
the use of drugs as long as 
he believes they are benefi- 
cial and a remedy for dis- 
ease. I honestly believe 
that doctors as a whole are 
honest and high-minded 
men, but I cannot believe 
that their drugs have done 
the sheep business any 
good. All of my observa- 
tions, during the years I 

Lamb creep with rollers for uprights have Spent in this busineSS, 




Managing the Farm Flock 35 

strongly convince me that drugs and sheep do not go together. Just as 
long as men depend on drugs to eliminate physical difficulties, just that 
long will they be breeding for themselves disappointments, and also the 
difficulties which they wish to eliminate. 

Teaching Lambs to Eat Early 

In preparing lambs for market, build a creep near feeding ground 
and feed them all of the following or any other good grain mixture that 
they will eat. The figures indicate parts by weight. Start lambs eating 
hay and grain early. A little sugar sprinkled on the feed, or a taste 
from the hand vi^ill start them eating. 

FIRST PERIOD SECOND PERIOD THIRD PERIOD 

(30 Days) (30 Days) (30 Days) 

Com, ground 6 Corn, whole or Com, whole 6 

Oats, crushed 6 ground 6 Oats, whole 3 

Cottonseed or linseed Oats, whole or Linseed oil meal. .. . 1 

meal 6 crushed 6 Hay or pasture 

Clover or alfalfa hay Cottonseed or linseed 

Wheat bran 6 meal 2 

Hay or pasture 

Docking 

Cleanliness in feed, water and everything is imperative. Dock and 
castrate lambs any time after they are five days old, but it should be 
done within three weeks after birth if possible. There are several 
methods to be employed in docking, but the one adopted by the most 
successful shepherds is to tie or cord the tail very tight with paper 
fleece twine, just above where it is to be cut. Use a bright, clean, wide 
wood chisel, a large pair of evenly sharpened pincers or a sharp knife. 
It is generally best to do the docking in the evening, so the lambs will 
lie down and do no fretting. Be sure to remove the cord the next morn- 
ing, leaving it on only about twelve hours. Heavy paper fleece twine 
makes an ideal cord as it is large enough not to cut the flesh. The tail 
should be cut off about 1 to ll^ inches from the rump. It is also 
important to push the tail towards the body at the time the severance 
is being made, so that there is enough loose skin to close over the stump. 
Pine tar may be used if the flies are bad. 

Patent docking irons are often used, which bum through the tail. 
There is hardly any loss of blood, but if the iron is too hot, the wound 
may be slow in healing. A board with a hole in it, to pull the tail 
through serves to regulate the distance from the body to sever the tail, 
and also keeps from burning the lamb. The irons should be quite hot 
and the operation performed quickly, so as not to unnecessarily burn 
the tail. 

Castrating 

Castrating should be done at the same time as the docking, or the 
following morning. Lambs should always be held gently, but firmly. 
The knife or shears should be bright and clean, and a nice, clean place 
should be selected for the operation. Cut off lower third of the scrotum, 



36 Practical Sheep Husbandry 

then the testicles may be removed by grasping them gently but firmly 
and pulling them straight out, one at a time. Many good shepherds 
prefer to pull them with the teeth, as it is very diificult to grasp them 
firmly enough with the fingers. Each operation should be done 
thoroughly, but as quickly as possible. 

Early Lambs : Why ? 

The early marketing of lambs in the central states has several 
very commendable advantages over the custom of running them through 
and marketing them in the fall and winter. Here are a few points to 
be considered : 

(a) They gain little or none during the two hot summer months, 
July and August. 

(b) Hot, droughty weather always presents extra problems, some- 
times that of water, and generally a question of sufficient nutritious, 
fattening feeds. 

(c) It lessens the demands of the pasture at the time most needed 
for the breeding flocks. 

(d) Labor is saved if lambs are marketed at weaning time. 

(e) There is also the decided advantage of avoiding the congestion 
and heavy receipts always encountered in the fall. 

(f ) The use of the money obtained is a consideration to many people 
at this season of the year or before the harvesting of crops. 

(g) It is also a fact that the big, quick gains are the most remuner- 
ative, one time with another. 

(h) Lambs will make a bigger gain on less feed during the first four 
months than at any other time in their lives. 

Producing the Early Lamb 

To produce the early lamb, early rye or wheat fields may be utilized 
to good advantage as a part of the roughage. Early pasturing of 
either is beneficial, rather than a detriment to the rye or wheat. Early 
alfalfa or clover is fine, and blue grass pasture is always good. The 
shepherd must exercise caution in pasturing alfalfa to avoid bloating 
and scouring. Advantage should be taken of the spring and early 
summer grasses, but these grasses, no matter how good, will hardly 
produce the kind of lambs required at the market by the time or before 
the hot weather begins. Lambs should average at least 65 to 75 pounds 
on the market to be of desirable weight for the demand during the sum- 
mer months. The most desirable weight for fat lambs during the late 
fall and winter is 75 to 85 pounds on the market. 

Shearing 

Shearing is one of the harvesting times, and should not be treated 
lightly. Burs, cur dogs, poor fences, dirty barn yards, carelessness 
and neglect are all children of old "Daddy Failure," and do not fit in 
with the sheep business. Digging a ditch in a dress suit, or scrubbing 
a floor in a silk dress is right in line with turning sheep with valuable 



Managing the Farm Flock 



37 



wool into a field infested with burs. The wool should be clipped, if 
possible, with a clipping machine. A longer staple is obtained, a 
smoother job done and less risk is run of cutting the wool twice, which 
is injurious to its value, or the sheep once. 

Shearing should be done from the middle of April to the middle of 
May. A board platform should be erected, fleece removed, wool ends 
gathered up and platform swept clean after each sheep shorn. The 
belly should be shorn first and this wool, along with the odd locks, 
placed in the center of the fleece. The fleece should be picked up care- 
fully and thrown on a clean table and folded thrice lengthwise. Then 
fold in each end and roll, exposing the inside of the wool. All dung 
locks should be carefully removed and thrown in the manure pile. 

Wool should positively never be tied with binding twine. It will 
decrease its value 10 per cent. Strings of the twine remain in the wool 
and will not take a dye, therefore such wool cannot be used in making 
a fine grade of cloth. Always use paper or three ply India twine. Sack 
or bail, and store in a clean, dry place. 

Dipping 

Dipping should follow shearing in the course of a week to ten days. 
After the ewes are shorn, ticks or mites go over on the lambs, and 




Western Breeding Ewes Being Changed to a Fresh Pasture 

unless the whole flock is thoroughly dipped, it Will only be a matter 
of time until the flock is infested again. It is wefl to dip the flock 
twice, the second dipping about two weeks after the first, giving any 
eggs not destroyed by the first dipping time to hatch out. It is also 
requisite to dip the breeding flocks again, just before cold weather. 



38 Practical Sheep Husbandry 

Ticks are a nuisance, and sheep infested with them will not fatten nearly 
so well. It is also well to take every precaution against scab, because 
if it breaks out in the winter time it is hard to conrol, and great incon- 
venience and risk is encountered if sheep have to be dipped in the dead 
of winter. 

MANAGING THE FLOCK THROUGH THE SUMMER 

When it is not practicable or possible to market lambs early and 
they are to be run through and fattened on the fall roughage with 
grain, a few suggestions for managing the summer flock may prove 
useful. 

Weaning 

If lambs are being prepared for the early market, it is well not to 
wean them until they are placed on the market. But when they are to 
be carried through, lambs should be weaned reasonably early, as a pair 
of robust lambs are very rough with a ewe, especially if they are not 
getting all the milk they want, and no grain is being given to offset 
this. It does not do a lamb any good to keep thrusting its nose after 
the teat, under the hot flanks of the ewe. Both mother and lamb are 
better off if separated. There is, of course, a natural weaning time, 
but under certain conditions they ought to be weaned before this time. 

STOMACH WORM 

Progressive System of Changing Pasture Recommended as Remedy 

Lambs are much more affected by the stomach worm than the older 
sheep, and it is often possible to shift them on to newer and unused 
pastures through the hot months. The progressive system of pasturing 
and forage crops are receiving the most consideration as a remedy for 
the stomach worm. 

In the early spring, rye or wheat fields can be utilized to give the 
blue grass or tame pastures a chance to get started. Then the sheep 
can be shifted to the clover pasture, and again on the clover meadow, 
after the hay is cut. From there to the stubble fields, and then into 
the corn fields, where with an added amount of grain the sheep or lambs 
that are to be marketed are made fat. Of course there are the forage 
crops, such as rape, soy beans, etc. Through the summer months sheep 
should not remain on one pasture more than two or three weeks at a 
time. Lowlands should be avoided, especially on wet, rainy days, be- 
cause it is when the grass is wet that the stomach worms crawl up the 
blades of grass, and are ready to be taken by any animal that comes 
along. It is claimed that stomach worms are much worse on lowlands 
than on high. There should always be shade, and if there are no trees, 
then some shelter from the hot sun should be furnished. 

Progressive System on 160-Acre Farm 

F. R. Marshall of the Department of Animal Industry, offers the 



Managing the Farm Flock 



39 



following suggestions for a three year rotation system to apply on a 
one hundred and sixty acre farm: 

25 Acres Corn: To finish 20 yearling cattle and 40 hogs. 

15 Acres Silage Corn: Roughage for 20 cows, 20 yearling cattle, 80 ewes, 20 ewe, 

lambs and work stock. 
40 Acres Wheat and Oats : Grain for sale or exchange for other feeds. 
20 Acres Clover Hay 

20 Acres Clover Pasture: Season's grazing for 20 breeding cows. 
20 Acres Permanent Grass Pasture: Grazing for 20 yearling cattle on feed for 

December shipment. 
10 Acres Forage Crops: In the above sheep would be grazed as follows: 

First: On winter wheat. 

Second: On grass pasture with yearling cattle. 

Third: With cows on clover pasture. 

Fourth: On clover meadow after hay is cut. 

Fifth: On grain stubble. 

Sixth: In corn fields after silage is cut or corn harvested. 

Seventh: On winter wheat. 

At other times on rape, soy beans, or other grazing crops on lO-acre 

field. Unused forages harvested for winter feed. 

Such a plan as this allows sufficiently frequent change of pasture 
without any part of the flock going upon land that has previously car- 
ried sheep in the same year. The forage crop land is a safety measure 
for reliance in case of shortage of other feeds, and could regularly be 
used for carrying the reserved ewe lambs from weaning time until 
winter. 




Shade is Very Important On a Hot Day 



After Weaning 

After weaning it is often advisable to place the ewes on dry pasture, 
so the milk flow will be decreased. Udders should be watched closely, 



40 



Practical Sheep Husbandry 



and milked out every two or three days if necessary. Lambs really 
should never run through the summer without some grain, because 
after they are weaned, unless they have good feed they are liable to go 
back, and are hard to start again in the fall. 

Feeding the lambs a little grain each day affords an opportunity 
for counting and inspecting them. Oats, corn, wheat, barley and such 
concentrates as wheat bran, linseed oil meal or cake and cotton seed 
meal are good. Usually it is not necessary to feed more than one-fourth 
of a pound of grain per head daily, if the pasture or forage is good. 
Oats alone serve as a good builder, but will not produce much fat. Salt 
and good water are always imperative, and both should be always kept 
before them. 

Bringing in the Flock at Night 

The writer has always felt that the breeder or feeder who really 
likes his stock will want it at home when night comes, besides it is a 
part of the nature and breeding of sheep to be housed or penned at 
night. Why go against a handicap that education and breeding has 
established, by leaving your sheep in the field at night? There can be 
no good results expected from either man or beast, if they are full of 
fear. My recollections are all in favor of bringing in the flock at night. 
When I enter a barnyard at sunset and see the cows, horses, sheep, etc., 




These Sheep Recognize This Dog As Their Friend 

they all have the look: "We're glad to be here. We know this is our 
home and that we will be protected^ because you are our master." I love 
a good dog, but the roaming cur is no friend of mine, neither have I 
been especially drawn to the family who are so poverty-stricken that 



Managing the Farm Flock 41 

they do not know where their next meal is coming from, but still keep 
from one to half a dozen mongrels that put in the night killing lambs 
or anything they can find. I strongly advocate a high dog tax as being 
the most effective method of combating the cur dog nuisance. 

Sheep as Plant Scavengers 

Henry says : "Sheep are the plant scavengers of the farm. Because 
of its dainty manner of nibbling we might suppose its likes were few 
and its dislikes many. However, just the opposite is the case, and no 
domestic or wild animal is capable of subsisting on more different kinds 
of food; grasses, shrubs, roots, cereal grains, leaves, and in times of 
scarcity, fish and meats. In Norway and Sweden they often have to 
exist through a hard winter on pungent, resinous evergreens." 



Twenty-five Reasons Why the Average American Farmer Should 
Keep Some Sheep On His Farm 

1. He can procure any number that will suit his financial condition. 

2. Sheep pay dividends twice a year, making quick returns on the 
investment. 

3. The per cent of profit depends on the shepherd, and may be 1 to 
200 per cent. 

4. There are no expensive buildings necessary. 

5. They will do better on poor producing land and do more towards 
building it up than any other animal. 

6. They both clothe and feed their master. 

7. Owing to their fine mastication they do not scatter weed seed over 
a farm through their manure. 

8. If the feed-lot is dry when they go into it, it will be dry when they 
come out, because they do not tramp it up and get it knee deep in mud. 

9. They will do more towards cleaning up a farm and keeping a 
good one good than any other animal. 

10. They are gentle to handle and nice to feed. 

11. Wheat and rye fields may be pastured winter and spring, when 
other animals would injure the crops. 

12. They tramp the earth well dovsoi on the roots of wheat and rye, 
and by cropping it down cause it to stool out and produce a bigger crop. 

13. The cost of maintenance is small. 

14. Sheep can be fattened with less grain and in a shorter period of 
time than almost any other animal. 

15. Any class of feed can be turned to a profit through sheep, by 
adding to it the rations required. 



42 



Practical Sheep Husbandry 



16. The quality of a flock can quickly be 
improved, because one good ram will get 50 to 
60 lambs, and may improve the quality 100 
per cent. 

17. They are one of the healthiest animals 
in the world. 

18. They can subsist and thrive on more 
different kinds of feeds than any other animal 
known to man, barring the goat. 

19. Sheep are called the dual purpose ani- 
mal, but they do many things at the same time, 
for instance, make wool and food, fertilize land, 
clean up a farm, tramp the wheat or rye, and 
a multitude of other things. 

20. They offer fresh meat at any time of 
the year. 

21. Quick cash can be had in case of need. 

22. They offer the opportunity to start the 
boy in business. 

23. They will help kill the child's worst enemy, fear. 

24. By producing forage crops to feed sheep, greater returns can 
be obtained from the land. 

25. They will convert a weedy pasture into blue grass and clover 
quicker than any other class of live stock. 




No Trouble Gettinir This Young 

Man Interested in the 

Business 



Managing the Farm Flock 



43 




Some sings of the lily, and daisy, and rose, 

And the pansies and pinks that the Summertime throws 

In the green grassy lap of the madder that lays 

Blinkin' up at the skyes through the sunshiny days ; 

But what is the lily and all of the rest 

Of the flowers, to a man with a hart in his breast 

That was dipped brimmin' full of the honey and dew 

Of the sweet clover-blossoms his babyhood knew? 



I never set eyes on a clover-field now, 

Er fool round a stable, er climb in the mow, 

But my childhood comes back jest as clear and as plane 

As the smell of the clover I'm snifRn again ; 

^ :1c :>: ^ ^ ^ :{: 

And so I love clover — it seems like a part 
Of the sacerdest sorrows and joys of my hart ; 
And wharever it blossoms, oh, thare let me bow 
And thank the good God as I'm thankin' him now. 



-Riley. 



44 



Practical Sheep Husbandry 




CHAPTER III 



FIELD FEEDING 



Cleaning and Fertilizing the Farm 

DURING the last few years there has sprung up a practice of using 
the thin fleshed western or range sheep and lambs on the central 
states grain farms to clean up weed patches, stubble fields and the like. 
Farmers have learned they can fertilize their land and produce bigger 
crops in this way, but they have not all learned that this class of feed 



^^ />!«* 




This Fanner Added the Required Amount of Grain to His Roughage to Produce These Fat Sheep 

will not, in itself, produce fat sheep and lambs, which is necessary to 
make this class of feeding a success. It will be my intention to point 
out in this chapter some of the methods to be followed to insure success. 
I would also like to say that the farmer who has not the time nor the 
inclination to study the most approved methods for feeding and fatten- 



46 Practical Sheep Husbandry 

ing sheep before he goes into the business had better let sheep alone, 
for the odds would all be against him. 

Feeders of sheep and lambs are composed of two general classes, 
the field feeder and the dry-lot or barn feeder. As the held feeder is 
first to come on the market in the fall to purchase his feeders, and also 
as he generally finishes his stuff in the dry lot, we will take up his prob- 
lem first, and lead up to dry lot feeding. 

Quality of Feeders 

It is during the autumn that the ranchman sends his fat sheep and 
lambs to market. If the range is good, a large per cent of his holdings 




Several Thousand Range Sheep on the Way to Market 

get fat, but there are always a good many that are not fat enough for 
the killers, and these are termed feeders. It is in the fall, also, that he 
culls his flocks and sorts out everything not suitable to be kept on the 
range. Included in the ranchman's shipments in the fall may be found 
fat lambs, feeding lambs, fat and feeding yearling wethers, and fat and 
feeding aged wethers. He also markets any young ewes in excess of 
the number he has feed for during the coming winter, and he is careful 
to sort out and market all old ewes that will not stand the hard, open 
winter. Of the latter, part may be fat and go to the killers, or they 
may all be thin with good solid teeth, and good for one or two years' 
service as breeders through the central states, where good shelter and 
nourishing food is provided. These old ewes may also be broken or 
short toothed stuif, not good enough for breeders, but will get fat with 
the proper feeds. In fattening such ewes grain should be ground or 
cracked; in other words they should have soft feed. They generally 
sell at a low price, only a little higher than cull ewes, a kind not suitable 
even to go out as feeders. The culls are bought by the killers for can- 
ning purposes. 

Fall Roughage 

Nearly every year, just after the harvesting of the small grains. 



Field Feeding 



47 



there may be found on nearly every farm throughout the central and 
eastern states, a considerable amount of roughage which makes excel- 
lent sheep and lamb feed. It is found in the form of oat, wheat, rye, 
and barley stubble fields, blue grass pasture, weedy corn fields and 
Waste patches generally. Farmers have learned that they can market 
this otherwise wasted roughage via the sheep route and at the same 
time clean up their farms and fertilize their land. Some falls, when 
weed seeds ripen, and quite a little grain is left in the stubble fields, 
sheep will get quite fat without any added grain, but this is very unusual 
and should never be depended upon. Ordinarily, this class of feed will 
put on a big, growthy gain, but will not produce the finish required at 
the market. Quick gains are generally the most economical, and most 
successful field feeders have found that they make more money and 
have less risk if they feed grain with this roughage to the amount re- 
quired to insure a finished product by the time rough feed is gone, or 
at most enough grain so as only to be required to feed in a dry lot for a 
short time after green feed is gone. 

Feeders Adaptable to Feed 

If the field feeder feels he wants to utilize his green feeds first, and 
only feed grain in the dry lot after green feeds are gone, then he should 
use caution in regard to the class of feeders he buys. There is a very 
important rule to follow in selecting feeders, so no mistake will be made 
in getting something that will be adaptable to one's feeds. Always buy 
a class of sheep or lambs that you can be sure to offer better feed than 
they have been receiving. This rule holds good among all kinds of 
live stock. During the past few years conditions on the range have 
greatly improved. On many 




ranches good feeds are provided 
and flocks are brought through the 
winter in good shape and start out 
in the spring strong, with the ewes 
giving a good flow of milk for the 
lambs. In some places tame pas- 
tures have been developed to give 
the ewe and lamb an early start, 
and later to graze on bulf alo, wheat 
and other western grasses, much 
more fattening and nutritious than 
the average grasses or roughage 
found in the central states. Idaho 
and Washington, which states are the big contributors during July, 
August and September, produce very fine stuff and sheep and lambs 
from these states are, as a rule, fleshy, even the feeding end. Some 
of these western sheep and lambs come to market as fat as the farmer 
can make them with grain. The farmer taking these fleshy feeders out 
to feed must know this and be prepared to offer them nutritious feeds, 
and generally a grain ration must be added, otherwise his sheep and 
lambs will grow but will not fatten, and may lose flesh. There are, 
however, ranges that do not produce such fleshy stuff, or it may be 
drouthy in that section, making it possible to obtain a thin class of 



Range Ewes Brought Thraugh the Winter 
Strong and Vigorous 



48 Practical Sheep Husbandry 

feeders, healthy and all right, that will do to go out and clean up even 
wild pasture and do pretty well on it. If the quality of the feeds to 
be utilized is poor, get something that shows plainly that it has been 
running on poorer feeds. Of course this will only hold good where 
sheep or lambs still remain strong, for if they are in a run down, weak- 
ened condition they must have good feed and care. A good, strong, 
fleshy set of feeders will gain faster than thinner ones on good feed, 
but the feed must be good. 

Cattle Ranchman OfiFers Example 

One of the big cattle feeder buyers on this market, who owns a 
large tract of wild pasture land in Indiana, said to me : "A short while 
ago a commission firm purchased for one of my neighbors a fleshy set 
of feeding cattle. These cattle were turned out to graze through the 
summer on this wild land, and in the fall you would not have known 
them, for they had gone all to pieces, while our cattle, running in an 
adjoining pasture made a fine gain and were a set of nice, fleshy feed- 
ers ready to finish on grain during the winter." 

Better Fall Feeds Provided 

The most successful field feeders have found it expedient to pro- 
vide more and better field feeds to go along with the ordinary rough- 
age found on the average farm. Such forage crops as rape, soy beans, 
field peas, etc., sown in with the corn, or in a field alone, make excel- 
lent sheep feeds, and sometimes no grain need be added at all ; but this 
must be watched closely and an added amount of grain given if the 
sheep are to be marketed when green feed is gone, or the farmer must 
be prepared with clover or alfalfa hay, corn stover, bean straw or other 
suitable roughage, and succulent feeds, such as ensilage, roots, etc., to 
finish them up in a dry lot. 

Noah Fouts, a lamb feeder of Camden, Indiana, writes as follows 
regarding the merits of soy beans as sheep feed : 

"We turned to sheep several years ago because of the available 
roughage we saw going to waste every year. We soon learned, how- 
ever, that this roughage alone would not produce the finish required 
at the market. We began looking for a supplement for high priced 
grain and think we have found it in soy beans. We do not claim that 
we can always finish our sheep or lambs without adding some grain 
but we have reduced it to a minimum. 

"We have found soy beans a wonderful sheep feed. We generally 
sow them in with the corn or rape and turn the sheep in on them. We 
always produce an abundance of clover, alfalfa and soy bean hay as well 
as corn stover. We have found it imperative to have an abundance of 
dry roughage for winter feeding. 

"We seldom miss the top of the market and our last load or tail end 
feeding was good enough to put an extreme top on the lamb market. 
When feeding in the dry lot, we feed a ration of about equal parts shelled 
corn and soy beans. We are raising bigger and better crops and have 
increased the value of our land considerably. We find sheep practical 
on our high priced land. I strongly caution any one starting in the 



Field Feeding 49 

sheep business to steer clear of the scenery method and not to try- 
handling sheep unless there is a liking for them." 

Comparison of Results 

During the fall months, or western season, some of the big ranch- 
men market several thousand lambs. They send down a train load at 
a time to be unloaded at feeding and grazing stations a few miles 
from the market. These sheep or lambs are then ordered in from day 
to day by the commission man, a few cars at a time as the market 
demands. There is offered then from day to day the same ranchman's 
breeding. I have seen these lambs taken out by the various country- 
men and have observed the different results obtained by these men 
with idntically the same class of stock. The weights most approved 
for feeding lambs run 55 pounds to 62 pounds. Going out, these lambs 
were a thrifty, hardy, choice quality, uniform band. Some returned 
them fat, with a big gain, quality improved, with the finish obtained, 
while others returned them pretty good or half -fat with a good growthy 
gain, but not fat enough to be good killers, and too heavy for desir- 
able feeders. Still others returned them weighing less than when 
going out as feeders, these lambs plainly showing abuse, lack of feed, 
and likely no salt, water or care. In a great many instances these men 
would charge that their lambs as feeders were not healthy, therefore 
the results. Some were ignorant of the requirements of the market 
and supposed that a half-fat or pretty good sheep or lamb was satis- 
factory to a certain extent to the killers. 

Finishing Sheep vs. Cattle 

It might be well to state here that there is a practice among cattle 
feeders of short feeding or half fattening cattle, and that there is a 
good demand for the various kinds of beef, but that long ago it was 
learned that a half -fat or pretty good sheep or lamb was not a success. 
Only a month's feeding often raises the quality of a lamb or sheep two 
or three dollars a hundred weight. Ninety to one hundred and twenty 
days is generally the required time to fatten and finish a sheep or lamb, 
whereas it takes eight to ten months to fatten or finish a steer. 

When to Market 

Very often in the fall farmers are able to get such cheap gains 
that they can ship their sheep or lambs back to market and sell them 
at the price paid for them as feeders and still make money. However, 
the purchaser should never figure on a small margin, and generally he 
should allow himself a margin of two to three dollars per hundred- 
weight between the price he pays for his feeders and the expected fat 
price. During the big receipts in the fall, however, fat stuff generally 
is, and should be, at the low point of the year, therefore fat and feeder 
prices may be close together at that time. Neither the central states pro- 
ducer or feeder should plan his feedings so that he vdll have to market 
his fat stuff during the time the big fall rush is on. His marketings 
should either be made before or after. 



50 Practical Sheep Husbandry 

Kinds to Buy 

Kinds to buy depends on the feeds that are available. Thin natives 
should never be taken out as feeders from a market, for they do not 
fatten evenly, and if wormy, cause trouble. Native sheep or lambs 
should be made fat by the man who produces them. If thin, they have 
to sell to the packers as culls at low prices. In this country lamb meat 
is favored, but in England and some other countries, mutton is equally 
favored. Lambs are generally the most economical class to feed. 
First, because of the premium paid for them over mutton ; second, 
because all the tests show that lambs consume less feed for the amount 
of gain than do older sheep. Some feeders favor oMer sheep where 
roughage is the principal consideration, and if it is to be fed in the field. 
The claim is made by these men that older sheep will come nearer get- 
ting fat running in a field than lambs. The writer gives this argument 
some consideration, as any young animal is harder to fatten than an 
older one, if given exercise. Where a large amount of roughage is to 
be consumed, a bunch of old ewes, too old to go as breeders and that 
have been suckling lambs all summer, will put on a big gain, and often 
can be bought at a price so low that they are to be preferred to lambs. 
Aged wethers, which, however, are seldom over three or four years 
old, are always good plant scavengers, make good corn buskers and 
are easy to handle and fatten. Yearling wethers, if of handy weights 
when fat, say under a hundred pounds, sell as lambs to the butcher, 
providing their front joints break, which is one way of convincing 
the butcher that he is buying lamb. (Desirable weights change from 
time to time.) They are also, as a rule, robust and hardy, but are a 
little harder to finish than older wethers. 

If the farmer has cutover brush land or wild pasture he wishes 
tamed down, goats should be used, or big, strong wethers, thin in flesh. 
Ewes with lambs at their sides should never be used for this purpose. 
Southwestern desert goats make ideal brushers. 

It is generally advisable to dip sheep or lambs being taken out as 
feeders from the market, and if not prepared to do it at home, the pur- 
chaser can have it done at the market at a nominal cost. 

Starting Sheep on Green Feed 

Great care should be exercised in starting sheep or lambs on green 
feed. In most sections of the range country it gets pretty dry during 
the summer months and the grass is short, although good. Placing 
these sheep on rank, green feed, especially after they have had no feed 
at all for twenty-four to thirty-six hours, is likely to produce disastrous 
results. Sheep should first be placed in a dry lot and given all the good 
hay they can eat. Next morning they can be turned out for a couple 
of hours and then brought back on the dry feed again. This should 
continue for about a week, extending the time a little longer each day. 
Scours, caused by sheep gorging themselves on green feed, should 
receive immediate attention, and the only cure is to place them on dry 
feed until the scours are dried up. If sheep that have the scours are 
allowed to run on green feed they will get very weak, and may die. 



Field Feeding 

Grain: It's Importance 



51 



The writer has always believed that sheep should be brought to a 
lot near the barn yard at night. It gives the feeder an opportunity 




Western Lambs Coming in From the Cornfield to Receive Their Bite of Mixed Grain and 

to be Yarded for the Night 

to inspect them carefully, as he should, to weigh them to note their 
progress and to count them. These things should be done from time 
to time. Even though the feed in the field is excellent, it has been my 
experience that the feeder who gives his sheep or lambs grain each 
evening, even if only a little taste, is always well repaid for doing so. 
They will be at the gate each evening to get it, and it will quiet them 
so they will lie down and fatten. Men who practise yarding their sheep 
at night get about two pounds gain to one by the fellow who leaves 
them in the field at night. Feed troughs must also be kept well cleaned, 
and any left overs given to the hogs. When troughs get dirty they 
should be given a thorough scrubbing with lime water. 

Number to Be Shipped in Car 

The feeder should bear in mind that he cannot load as many large 
sheep in a car as small ones. In taking feeding lambs out, generally 
from three hundred to three hundred and fifty fifty-five to sixty pound 
lambs can be loaded in a thirty-six foot, double deck car. More close 
wooled lambs can be loaded than open wooled lambs. One double or 
two single loads going out will make three decks going back to market. 
Overloading should be avoided. Hundreds of thousands of dollars in 
dead and excessive shrink is suffered every year through overloading. 



52 Practical Sheep Husbandry 

In shipping to market it is generally safe to load wooled sheep into a 

thirty-six foot, single deck car as follows: 

120 to 130 75-lb. to 85-lb. lambs 

130 to 140 65-lb. to 75-lb. lambs 

100 to 110 115-lb. to 130-lb. sheep 

110 to 120 100-lb. to 110-lb. sheep 

Clipped sheep or lambs can be loaded ten to fifteen heavier to the 

deck. It is very seldom sheep can be safely loaded to the full weight 

capacity of the car. 

Sorting for the Market 

In preparing sheep or lambs for market, it is a rare thing for all 
the sheep and lambs to take to the feed at the same time or eat the same 
amount. The stronger will crowd the weaker away and take their 
feed, therefore part of them will get fat and be ready for market before 
they are all ready. So it is advisable where two or more decks are 
being fed for market, to sort off a load or so as fast as they become fat 
and market them. To do this, crowd them all in a tight lot, and then 
go through them carefully, handling lamb after lamb. Use the index 
finger and get well through the wool half way down on the side, and 
then with a sweeping motion push the finger back and forth across 
the ribs. If you feel a washboard effect you may know that sheep or 
lamb will not do. Find a sheep or lamb that you are sure is fat, handle 
his ribs thoroughly and get him well fixed in your mind, then use him 




This Man Knows that Sheep and Lambs Must be Made Fat to Meet the Demands of the Market 
and He Is Sorting Off a Load or So for Shipment 

as a model. Sort off a load or more that measures up to his standard. 
Avoid just looking at them and deciding they are fat. The best judges 
of sheep on the market do not dare to trust to sight alone. Lambs or 



Field Feeding 



53 



sheep good enough for the market also have fat, thick tails. After 
becoming well acquainted with the quality of flesh and you are con- 
vinced some of them will do, then you may sort them off by hand. 

Cutting Chute 

It is much easier, however, to obtain a few pieces of carpenter's 
chalk, and as fast as a lamb is found to be fat, put a small chalk mark 
on his head or across his back; or chalk the ones which are not fat. 
Build a cutting chute in front of a small gate, so in swinging the gate, 
sheep coming towards it may be cut in or out. This is generally easy to 
accomplish, and often a temporary chute can be built by arranging loose 
gates or feed troughs. Sheep always run better if they are driven 
towards an opening, or the light. 

Flock Must Receive Kind Treatment 

If a stockman must get angry, he should do it out in the field some- 
where all alone, where he can throw mud to his heart's content and 
not hurt anything but himself. To become angry at a dumb animal is 
really very foolish. Whenever I drive by a farm and see sleek, well 
kept stock everywhere, I say to myself, a fine, even tempered man lives 
there, for an angry, high tempered man and fat well kept stock posi- 
tively do not go together. 





Native L.ambs That Have Been Docked and Castrated and are Fat, Ready for the Market 



54 



Practical Sheep Husbandry 




Such Storehouses for Feed are Found on Many of the Best Farms These Days 

No doubt great improvements will be made in the construction of the silo and the method of 
puttings up the silage and caring for it, during the time it is being fed. There can be no doubt 
that the silo is a wonderful invention and that it is here to stay. It is a safety valve and a 
method of insurance during drouth or short crops the following year, and ha^ been proven prac- 
tical and the feed economical. 

The secret in putting up silage, as in canning fruits or vegetables, is to keep it fresh, sweet 
and pure. If this is done (and fed with all the good, dry roughage sheep or lambs will consume) 
g^ood results are certain to follow. Bad results from eating sour, canned vegetables do not reflect 
against canning them, but against the method used, or more likely, the carelessness of the can- 
ner. No system ever devised by mortal man has been able to keep men from making mistakes, 
and none ever can. Each individual must obtain for himself the knowledge required. 



CHAPTER IV 



DRY LOT OR BARN FEEDING 



Green vs. Matured Feeds 

IT is the contention of the man who feeds exclusively in the barn or 
dry lot, that if he lets all his feed ripen and mature, he gets much 
better results when he is fattening and finishing stock, for the market 
than if he feeds the same feeds green in the field. A successful cattle 
feeder said to me, in response to a query put to him in the month of 
June, as to whether he was letting his cattle that he was preparing 




s>^ 











Sheep Being Finished in the Dry Lot for Market 



for market run on the grass: "Indeed I am not; and if I feed until 
September they won't be put on grass. I can haul feed to them, and I 
don't want them out in a field walking ofl" flesh, for it costs too much 
to put it on." Of course there are lots of good feeds, such as stubble 
fields, forage crops and the like that can be utilized by running sheep 
on them in the field, but the results obtained by the farmer in the past 
plainly show that the practise of trying to fatten sheep and lambs in 
the field for the market has not proven satisfactory. 



56 



Practical Sheep Husbandry 



Methods Employed by Michigan Feeders 

Possibly, at this time, our best dry-lot or bam feeders are found in 
Michigan. These men do not do much pasturing or field feeding. They 
prefer to grow alfalfa, clover and other good hay in abundance, raise 
what grain they can and buy the balance. They do not feed much 
ensilage or roots, and While they produce a highly finished article, and 
their sheep and lambs dress out well, it is certain they could produce 
their gains more economically if they fed a ration of succulent feeds. 
These men, as a rule, buy lambs and place them directly in the barn, 
and there they remain until they are shipped to market. 

Perhaps I can give the reader a little better idea of the methods 
employed by some of these feeders by relating a little experience of 
mine a few years ago, when visiting some customers. These men 
were quite large operators, and as I had been supplying them with their 
feeding lambs I concluded one week-end to run up and see them, get 
better acquainted, and study their methods, for I had learned that they 
were very good feeders. As I had not advised them of my coming and 
their place was only a short distance from town, I concluded to walk 
out. Coming up to their place and seeing their sheep barns, I jumped 
the fence and walked over to them. When I had reached the barn and 
was proceeding to do some investigating on my own account, out came 
a gentleman from one of the adjoining buildings and asked me my 
business, and what I was doing among the sheep. I told him who 1 
was, and he said: "We do not allow strangers among the sheep, and 
I am the only one allowed to feed and care for them." 



Good Care and Big Gains 

He explained that the quieter the lambs could be kept, the bigger 
gains they would make. He had them under a big open shed or barn, 
with a loft used as a storage place for hay and grain running through 

This enclosed sheep 
bam or shed faces 
south. Combination hay 
and grain racks may be 
built around the walls. 
Windows should be 
hung on center pivots 
and placed at a good 
height above hayracks. 
A small room should be 
boarded off in one cor- 
ner, with stove and cot 
for shepherd's use dur- 
ing leunbing time. Note 
wide door, also well 
constructed gate to shut 
sheep in when door is 
open. This barn need 
not be expensive, and 
it can be constructed in 
any size, allowing 12 to 
16 square feet for breed- 
ing ewes, 5 to 8 for 
lambs being prepared 
for market. No pro- 
vision is made for stor- 
ing fed in this enclosed 
shed, and feed must be 
brought from other 
bams. 
Drawn by Jet Wimp 




Dry Lot or Barn Feeding 57 

the center. The roof came well down, I should say about six feet from 
the ground, with the north and west sides loosely boarded to keep out 
the storm. This big shed or barn was divided into small pens, each to 
hold about forty lambs fitting in pretty snug, but with plenty of room 
to move about. Hay racks were built around three sides and a trough 
long enough to accommodate twenty lambs on each side, ran through 
the center, although a good combination hay and grain rack would likely 
have been much better. There was also a trough of fresh water at one 
end. He told me that the lambs were never moved out of these pens 
until they were shipped to market, and that they made a gain per head 
of 10 to 16 pounds a month, over a period of ninety to one hundred and 
twenty days. 

Value of Sheep Fertilizer 

These men had a great deal to say regarding the merits of sheep 
manure as fertilizer. Being raised in the corn belt proper, their land 
did not impress me much, and still these farmers had exceptionally 
good buildings, and they bragged to me about 50 to 60 bushels of corn 
per acre and proportionately good crops of wheat, rye, oats and excel- 
lent clover and alfalfa. The successful methods of feeding sheep fol- 
lowed by these farmers were given as the reasons for the big red barns 
and prosperous looking farm buildings. It is only in recent years that 
some of the corn belt farms have begun to feel the strain of everything 
going off and nothing coming back. Some of these men are finding 
sheep -the answer to their problem, and more will turn to them as time 
goes on. 

From Field to Dry Lot 

Among field feeders, only a few get their sheep fat enough, with- 
out finishing them on dry feed. As long as the green feed lasts it is 
all right to let the sheep have the run of the field during the day, but 
just as soon as it is gone, they should be shut up. Sheep will do no 
good running out after the green feed is gone, and will only walk off 
flesh as fast as it is put on, looking for what they cannot find. Sheep 
or lambs running in a field during the winter will eat lots of feed, but 
they will not get fat. 

Shelter, and How to Feed 

Sheep or lambs being fed do not need much housing, and a good 
shed to protect them from cold, rains and severe storms is sufficient. 
They can be fed in an open lot, but they should have some shelter, and 
hay racks especially should be in the dry. Lot should be high and dry, 
and separate from cattle and horses that will tramp it up and get it 
muddy. Sheep should be fed regularly, night and morning, and should 
always be driven out of the lot before the grain is placed in the troughs. 
After the grain is equally distributed in all the troughs, the gate can be 
opened and the sheep let in. After a few times the feeder will notice 
that every lamb goes directly to his own place at the trough. It only 
takes a few minutes for each lamb to clean up his share, hence the 



58 



Practical Sheep Husbandry 



importance of letting them all in at the same time, thereby giving each 
lamb an equal chance at the feed. 




This Shed Can Be Used When Feeding in an Open Lot. It Should he Open to the Sun. 
pensive and Can Be Made in Any Length or Width 



It is Inex- 



Rationing: Sheep and Lambs 

Great care should be exercised in starting sheep or lambs on feed. 
Just a sprinkle of shelled corn and oats, or whatever grains are to be 
given, should be put in the trough for the first week, until all the sheep 
have taken to the feed, and then it can gradually be increased from 
day to day. Patience is important, and it generally takes thirty to forty 
days to get sheep on full feed. It is better to give too little than too 
much grain, especially during the period of working them on feed. It 
is really up to the feeder to watch his sheep closely, as no two lots will 
take to the feed just alike. Weather conditions should be closely watched. 
On bright, crisp days sheep will take more feed, and in soft, muggy 
weather the grain ration often has to be decreased. If some get off 
feed, it is best to separate them from the rest and put them out where 
they will get rough feed and exercise for a day or so. It is sometimes 
necessary to take the Whole band off grain for a day or so, or greatly 




This Combination Hay and Grain Rack Has Several Advantages. Grain Trough Catches Hay Seed 

and Fine Leaves, Which Sheep Relish. Troughs are Detachable and Can be 

Removed and Thoroughly Cleaned at Any Time 



Dry Lot or Barn Feeding 



59 



reduce the grain ration. Grain should always be fed first, succulent 
feeds next, and then the dry roughage. 

In estimating the amount of trough room necessary, 12 inches can 
be allowed for feeding lambs and up to 18 inches for breeding ewes. It 
is quite necessary that enough trough space be provided so all can get 
to it at the same time. 

The following table will show the amount of feed to be given daily 
to a 55-pound to 65-pound feeding lamb over a period of 120 days. This 
table cannot be followed exactly, as some lambs will take to the feed 
faster than others, but it is given to show how sheep are gradually 
placed on feed. 







Ration No. 1 






Week 


Shelled Corn, 


lbs. Oats, lbs. 


Clover Hay All They i 


1 






.10 






2 


.20 




.15 






3 


.40 




.25 






4 


.70 




.20 






5 


.85 




.10 






6 


1.00 










7 


1.20 










8 


1.30 










9 


1.40 










10 


1.50 










11 


1.60 










12 


1.70 










13 


1.80 










14 


1.80 










15 


1.85 










16 


1.90 














Ration No. 2 
















Alfalfa 


Week 


Shelled Corn, lbs 


. Oats, lbs. 


Corn 


Silage, lbs. 


Hay, lbs, 


1 


.10 


.10 




.30 


1.50 


2 


.20 


.20 




.60 


1.30 


3 


.30 


.30 




.80 


1.20 


4 


.50 


.20 




1.00 


1.10 


5 


.70 


.10 




1.20 


1.00 




Cotti 


on Seed Meal, 


lbs. 






6 


.90 


.05 




1.30 


1.00 


7 


1.00 


.06 




1.50 


.90 


8 


1.10 


.07 




1.60 


.80 


9 


1.15 


.10 




1.75 


.70 


10 


1.20 


.12 




1.90 


.60 


11 


1.25 


.12 




2.00 


.55 


12 


1.30 


.14 




2.30 


.50 


13 


1.40 


.15 




2.40 


.50 


14 


1.45 


.16 




2.50 


.50 


15 


1.50 


.18 




2.60 


.50 


16 


1.60 


.20 




2.70 


.50 



Many good feeders will work lambs on full feed much sooner than 
is indicated in the above table, but the feeder who wishes to accomplish 
this must watch closely night and morning, so he will note quickly any 
irregularities and adjust his rations accordingly. I advise anyone, not 



60 



Practical Sheep Husbandry 



thoroughly versed in sheep feeding, to keep before his sheep or lambs 
at all times all the good, dry roughage they will consume. Then by 
careful observation the feeder can learn the amount of succulent feeds 
they will eat, as well as the grain ration required. Of course, during 
the period of working sheep on full feed, one must be careful not to feed 
too much grain ; but if plenty of good, dry roughage is kept before them, 
they will do their own rationing to a big extent. 

Roughages Compared 

The following table taken from "Feeds and Feeding," by Henry, 
gives the digestive nutrients in various roughages for sheep. 



Total dry 

material in Crude Carbohyd- Nutritive 

Dry Roughages 100 lbs., lbs. protein, lbs. rates, lbs. Fat, lbs. Total, lbs. rate 1, lbs. 

Clover red, all analysis. .. .87.1 7.6 39.3 1.8 50.9 5.0 

Clover alsike all analysis. .87.7 7.9 36.9 1.1 47.3 6.4 

Clover Monmouth red.... 81. 3 6.4 37.2 1.8 47.6 3.9 

Alfalfa, all analysis 91.4 10.6 39.0 0.9 51.6 3.6 

Soy bean hay 91.4 11.7 39.2 1.2 53.6 3.0 

Cow-pea in bloom, early 

pod 89.4 12.6 34.6 1.3 50.1 22.7 

Corn stover, corn removed, 

dry 90.6 2.2 47.8 1.0 52.2 21.0 

Corn stover, medium in 

water 81.0 2.1 42.4 0.7 46.1 23.2 

Corn stover, light in water. 59.0 1.4 31.1 0.6 33.9 27.1 

Kafir stover, dry 83.7 1.7 43.1 1.3 47.7 10.6 

Red top, all analysis 90.2 4.6 45.9 1.2 53.2 15.2 

Succulent Feeds Compared 

Beet pulp, wet 9.3 0.5 6.5 0.2 7.4 13.8 

Beet, common 13.0 0.9 9.1 0.1 10.2 10.3 

Mangel 9.4 0.8 6.4 0.1 7.4 8.2 

Futabago 10.9 1.0 7.7 0.3 9.4 8.4 

Corn well matured, recent 

analysis 26.3 1.1 15.0 0.7 17.7 15.1 

Sorgum 22.8 0.6 11.6 0.5 13.3 21.2 

Pea canning refuse 23.2 1.6 11.6 0.8 15.0 8.4 

Henry reports test made at the Michigan station on six (6) lots 

of ten (10) Iambs each of a 75 pound average over a period of 98 days 
to test the value of various roughage. 

Each lamb received 1.4 lb. shelled com and 1.2 lb. rutabagoes to- 
gether with dry fodder as shown below : 

Daily allow- 4. v. daily Av. total Feed Given for 100-lb. Gain 

ance of dry Corn, Dry Fodder, Roots, 

Lot roughage, lbs. gain, lbs. gain, lbs. lbs. lbs. lbs. 

1 Clover hay 1.2 0.33 32.4 423 362 365 

2 Alfalfa hay 1.3 0.35 34.4 395 373 340 

3 Millet hay 1.0 0.26 25.8 523 372 453 

4 Corn stover 1.4 0.31 30.2 451 462 387 

5 Oat straw 1.4 0.29 28.5 478 489 411 

6 Bean hay 1.5 0.30 29.6 463 488 395 



Dry Lot or Barn Feeding 61 

Alfalfa hay in this trial proved slightly superior to clover hay. 
Millet hay gave poor returns. Corn stover, cut into 1.5 to 3 in. pieces 
with a silage cutter, made nearly as large daily gains as Lot 1 fed 
clover hay, and consumed only a little more grain. This shows good 
stover has a high value for lambs. Oat straw did not prove equal to 
alfalfa or clover hay, still did very well and made economical gains. 
It is added, however, that the good showing made on corn stover and 
oat straw was made possible because roots were fed with them. Auth- 
or's note, "Good matured corn silage would take the place of roots." 

Advantages of Agricultural Stations 

The average farmer I am sure does not realize the great opportuni- 
ties and advantages that rightfully belong to him, such as the excellent 
State Agricultural Colleges, the Department of Agriculture at Wash- 
ington, and other sources of information. Almost any kind of informa- 
tion the farmer or feeder may need can be had by applying to these 
institutions. Feeding tables, the values of his different feeds, diagrams 
for farm buildings, feed troughs and the like can be had, if not at one 
place, then another, free for the asking. I wish also to say that if the 
reader wants a more detailed work on feeds and feeding, there are 
several books that are very good. 

Kinds and When to Buy 

If the reader has in mind buying lambs early in the fall to be run 
through on green feed and roughage until January or February, and 
then placing them on feed for the late spring market, he should buy 
light 40 to 50 pound lambs, thin in flesh, so they will not become too 
heavy for desirable weights when fat. Generally, however, men who 
feed for the late winter and spring months buy their stuff in October, 
November and December. If possible, they buy stuff direct from the 
range, but during November and December there are always a great 
many sheep and lambs dumped on the market from the corn belt states 
that are fleshy, and just right for a 60 to 90 day feed. These sheep or 
lambs, in most instances, are all right and will do fine. There are also 
feeders who watch the market closely, and during the early winter 
months buy half fat and pretty good lambs, put them on a good hay and 
grain ration and finish them in 30 to 60 days, getting a big gain and 
raising the quality in value possibly $2.00 to $3.00 per hundred weight. 

Shearing and Marketing Clipped Lambs 

Later, towards spring, still another class of operators come on the 
scene. They buy lambs or sheep, generally lambs, that will shear a 
good fleece of wool. They sometimes buy range hay-feds that are gen- 
erally pretty fleshy, but not quite good enough for the killers, or lambs 
made pretty fat on hay and grain, but maybe impossible to finish be- 
cause of ticks or lice, because they were not dipped in the fall. We 
call these men the shearers. They shear these lambs in March and 
April, and send them back as clipped lambs in April, May and June. 
These men are generally our best feeders, and here again is where the 



62 Practical Sheep Husbandry 

Michigan type of feeder is a big operator. Taking a heavy coat of wool 
from a lamb, and along with it his unwelcome companions, and plac- 
ing him on a choice hay and grain ration, he gains very fast, often 
putting on the weight of his fleece in two or three weeks time. These 
men also play for a raise in the market, for it is during April, May and 
June that we have the most meager receipts, therefore highest prices. 
There are a few farmers who make it a business of buying light 
lambs in the fall, and running them through the winter on cheap rough- 
age, feeding a little grain late in the winter, shearing early in April 
and turning out on the grass. This system is not successful, unless a 
grain ration is given with the grass. I would also caution the young 
feeder regarding feeding sheep or lambs on grass in the early spring. 
Grass at that time is not very nutritious, and sheep or lambs turned 
on this kind of feed soon flesh up and may look pretty fat, but the flesh 
is soft. Shipping such fleshed stuff" to market, a heavy shrink is cer- 
tain, and often an owner will hardly know his own stuff. The flesh 
must be made hard and firm, and grass alone will not do it. 

Sheep Fattening in Great Britain 

From some published sheep feeding trials in Great Britain, num- 
bering 194, Henry, a noted authority on feeds, selects the following 
examples to show the rations used by the British farmers for fatten- 
ing sheep. Mr. Henry reports that it is noted in these various reports 
that clover hay proved extremely useful, not only because of its nitro- 
genous matter, but also because of its high content of lime, compared 
with phosphoric acid. Linseed cake produced a given increase with 
less than the average amount of feed, and the carcasses dressed above 
the average. Cotton cake gave the average results. Oats on the whole 
were unsatisfactory for producing fat. Barley was satisfactory, unless 
used in large quantities, when it seemed to have an injurious efl'ect. 
Wheat gave good results. Malt showed little or no superiority over 
barley. Dried brewers' grains and dried distillers' grain proved very 
satisfactory. Mangels gave better results than sweeds, and stored 
sweeds gave better results than frosted sweeds. The best results fol- 
lowed feeding from 95 to 100 pounds of roots weekly per 100 pounds of 
live sheep. While the English farmer gets good results from feeding 
large quantities of roots, the American farmer had best limit the root 
ration to from 4 to 5 lbs. per head daily and even less. 

Rations Used in Great Britain in Fattening Sheep and Lambs 

Length of 
No. of feeding Average Average Av. daily Av. total 

Animals period, days ration, per wt., lbs. gain, lbs. gain, lbs. 

head. lbs. 

20 102 Linseed cake 0.3 

Barley 0.3 

Clover hay 0.4 

Sweeds 22.9 128 0.43 42 

10 108 Linseed cake 0.7 

Molasses 0.1 

Clover hay 2.1 

Wheat straw 0.3 130 0.24 27 

8 121 Cotton cake 1.6 

Hay 1-0 



Dry Lot or Barn Feeding 



63 



10 


60 


10 


35 


19 


105 


18 
38 


105 
93 



15 



19 



72 



105 



Roots 15.0 132 0.33 41 

Corn 0.6 

Oats 0.4 

Sweeds 14.8 108 0.32 14 

Cotton seed cake 0.6 

Dried distillers grain 0.4 

Turnips 15.0 109 0.29 10 

Corn 0.7 

Hay 0.5 

Sweeds 11.5 97 0.33 35 

Linseed cake 0.7 

Bombay cotton cake 0.3 

Sweeds 12.8 99 0.36 37 

Dried distillers grain 0.3 

Hay 0.4 

Sweeds 16.3 119 0.40 36 

Cotton cake 0.3 

Corn 0.3 

Clover hay 0.8 

Sweeds 13.0 61 0.19 14 

Hay 0.7 

Sweeds 15.3 91 0.21 22 



The almost universal feeding of oil cake and roots in great quantities 
to fatten sheep by the British farmer is shown in this table. 

Yield and Dry Matter Per Acre in Various Root Crops 

Through the corn belt region and among the larger class of farm- 
ers, corn ensilage is no doubt cheaper, labor considered, than are roots. 
But in cooler climates, where the season is not long enough for corn to 
mature, roots can be grown, and make excellent sheep feed. Roots are 
especially attractive to the small farmer, where every square rod of 
ground must produce to its limit. The following table, given by Henry, 
will show the yields of the various root crops per acre. 



N. Y. (Cornell) Station Ontario Agr. College 

Green Wt. Dry Matter Green Wt. Dry Matter 

Tons Lbs. Tons Lbs. 

Mangels 39.7 8,400 

Sugar mangels 28.1 6,400 

Sugar beets (swedes) 28.3 8,000 

Rutabagas 26.3 5,000 

Hybrid turnips 27.1 5,200 

Turnips 16.8 3,600 

Carrots 18.5 4,400 

Parsnips 8.3 3,800 

Kohlrabi 23.4 4,600 

Cabbage 36.4 4,600 

Dwarf Essex rape .... 

Thousand headed kale .... 

Potatoes 6.0 2,540 

(200 bushels) 

Questions and Suggestions 

The writer will be glad to answer questions asked by anyone in 
reference to raising, feeding or handling sheep, or how best to utilize 
any class of green feed, the amount of grain ration required to go with 



23.7 


4,440 


24.0 


5,460 


14,9 


4,890 


19.6 


4,260 


27.2 


5,160 


27.5 


6,460 


8.3 


2,750 


15.8 


2,819 


23.1 


4,102 


17.2 


5,758 


17.7 


4,000 


6.0 


2,540 



64 



Practical Sheep Husbandry 



it to produce a finished article; also the relative value of any one feed 
or class of feed w^ill be furnished on request. 

In my endeavor to assist the layman to diagnose and solve his prob- 
lem I will set forth the following questions, which should be read over 
carefully and answered correctly, otherwise, of course, the advice given 
might be wrong. The feeder should state how sheep or lambs have 
been handled during the six months, or time they have been in present 
owner's possession. 

Do you like sheep? 

How many sheep have you? 

State kind, age and breed. 

Ram grade or pure blood ? 

How much pasture and how divided ? 

How long have sheep been on this pasture? State kind, wild or tame, 
woods or prairie, high or low land, also give names of different kinds of 
grasses or weeds. 

Water, state whether creek or tanks, and if tanks, how high are 
sides and can the sheep drink out of them? Pure or dirty? 

Salt, is it kept before them all the time ? 

Fences, good or bad; can sheep crawl through them and injure 
themselves ? 

Are dogs chasing or killing your sheep? 

Are ewes and bucks running together or separate ? 

Are ewes with lamb, or are lambs running at their sides? 

Lot dry or muddy? 

How about shelter and bedding? 

Barn or shed dark or light, dry or damp, and how ventilated? 

Are sheep allowed to run with colts, calves or other mischievous 
animals ? 

What constitutes your roughage? State fully grade, quality and 
kind, also whether they have free access to it, or it is rationed to them. 

Do your sheep get timothy hay? 
They should not. 

What grain? State kind, qual- 
ity, quantity, whether rationed or 
fed in self feeders. 

Do different men feed the sheep 
or lambs from day to day ? 

Is anyone allowed to go among 
sheep that are being fattened for 
market ? 

Are your sheep penned or 
housed at night? 

When were they dipped last, and how many times. 
When tagged or dung clipped from around their tails? 
may collect if this is not attended to. 




Several of These Salt Troughs Should be 
Scattered Through the Pasture 



Maggots 



Dry Lot or Barn Feeding 65 

Are they allowed to run in fields or pastures where there is high 
grass, weeds and the like on rainy, stormy days? 

Are your sheep kept on closely cropped pastures during hot sum- 
mer months? 

How long do you keep them on each pasture at a time? 

How about shade? 

How often do you count and weigh yoilr sheep? 

Are your ewes all giving a good flow of milk? 

Is she owning her lambs and allowing them to suckle? 

Are her teats in good shape, or are the lambs biting them? 

Do you shear before or after lambing? 

Have you handled your sheep recently to ascertain whether they 
are fat? 

Do you know how to tell a fat sheep ? 

Are sheep a major part of your business? 

Are your sheep that you are preparing for market gaining three- 
eighths to one-half pound each daily? 

Did you read this book over carefully? 



66 



Practical Sheep Husbandry 




A GOOD CARCASS 



No. 1 shows the !eg, used as a roast. No. 2 is the loin and No. 3 
the ribs. Tliese two cuts furnish chops that are best broiled or 
roast for the oven. No. 4 is the shoulder, from which may be cut 
a few chops, a stew from the neck and a shoulder that may be 
opened and rolled into a very choice roast. No. 5 is the breast, best 
used for stew, but a possible roasting piece. — Courtesy Illinois 
Agricultural College. 



CHAPTER V 



PREPARING AND SERVING MUTTON AND LAMB FOR 

THE TABLE 



The Producer Should Boost His Own Business 

THROUGH many rural districts, and even in good sized towns through 
the Central and Western states, it is almost impossible at this time 
to get an order of mutton or lamb served, when ordered, at the average 
hotel. The farmer's wife, although she may be a very proficient cooii, 
seldom knows how to prepare mutton or lamb so it is appetizing. 

Not long ago I asked a traveling man if he ordered mutton or lamb 
when in the country districts, and he replied : "No, I do not, for I have 
learned better. There is as much difference as day and night in the 
ways it is served to you. There is no food more delicious, when it is 
properly cooked, seasoned and served, but deliver me if the chef does 
not know his business." 

Such a state of affairs is a crime committed against the sheep busi- 
ness, and the following remarks and recipes furnished by the United 
States Government are offered in the hope that they may help to bring 
mutton and lamb intO' more general favor. 

PALATABLE AND NUTRITIOUS FOODS 

Mutton has from early times been a popular food both in the Orient and among 
western nations. The ease with which the sheep is raised and the fact that its flesh 
is not, like some other meats, excluded on religious grounds from the dietary of 
any large group of people, combine with its palatability to bring it into widespread 
favor. The terms "lamb" and "mutton" are somewhat loosely used to designate 
the meat obtained from the younger and older animals. In some localities mutton is 
used to apply to the flesh of all but young lambs; in others its use is limited to the 
flesh of full-groWn sheep. The latter is perhaps the commonest usage in the United 
States. 

The preference for lamb or for mutton, like the use of the terms, varies with the 
locality. Of late years a preference for lamb to older mutton has been noticeable, 
particularly in the United States. In England, on the other hand, mutton has always 
been more commonly used. The popularity of one or the other will probably always 
be determined by taste, fashion, or market conditions, for both are palatable and 
nutritious foods. 

The general belief that mutton and lamb are wholesome has been strengthened 
recently by such work as that of the United States Department of Agriculture, 
whose reports of meat inspection show that it has been necessary to reject relatively 
few mutton carcasses as unfit for food, and that the sheep is particularly free from 
diseases which render meat undesirable. 

PREPARING AND SERVING MUTTON AND LAMB FOR THE TABLE 

Relative Economy In the Use of Mutton 

While mutton and beef do not differ materially in percentage composition or di- 
gestibility, mutton has an advantage in that it is capable of somewhat more economi- 
cal use. The mutton carcass, unlike the beef carcass, is of such size that a quarter 



68 Practical Sheep Husbandry 

or a half, either of which supplies a variety of cuts, can be conveniently utilized in a 
household of moderate size with ordinary refrigerating facilities, and the price pel 
pound is commonly less when the meat is bought in this way. There is a certain 
advantage, too, in the fact that the leg, which has the smallest percentage of wasta 
of any of the cuts of mutton, is of suitable size for family use, for a piece of meat 
which has not been cut up keeps better than one which has been cut. On the other 
hand, the rather genei'al belief, which, however, seems unfounded, that all kinds of 
mutton fat are unsuitable for culinary purposes, has tended somewhat to an un- 
economical use of this meat. 

How to Flavor and Utilize Mutton Fat 

One of the most satisfactory methods found is to mix some leaf lard with the 
suet and render with milk. The suet and leaf lard mixture is finely divided by 
passing it through a meat grinder, and then heated in a double boiler with about 
one-half of its weight of whole milk. The fat can quickly be released from the tis- 
sues, and, when allowed to cool, forms a cake on the surface of the liquid, which is 
easily removed. Mutton suet and leaf lard, fresh and of good quality, "tried out' 
in this way, possesses little, if any, of the characteristic mutton odor and flavor. 
The best results are obtained with a mixture of two parts of mutton suet and one 
of leaf lard, finely ground, and rendered with whole milk in proportion of % pint 
to 2 pounds of the mixed mutton and lard. This fat has an exceptionally good odor 
and flavor, which it will retain when kept for weeks in an ordinary refrigerator. II 
is also of good color and texture, being softer than the mutton fat alone, owing to 
the milk fat and lard which it contains. If such fats are rendered in an open kettle, 
a moderate heat is desirable, since they "burn on" very readily. Rendering in a 
double boiler is much more convenient. 

Another way of utilizing mutton fat for frying and other culinary purposes is 
in the form of savory fat, similar to that made from beef drippings and other fats. 
For each pound of the carefully rendered mutton fat, allow an onion, a sour apple, 
and a teaspoon of ground thyme or mixed herbs tied up in a small piece of cloth. 
Cook these in the fat, at a low temperature in the oven or on top of the stove, until 
the onion and apple are thoroughly browned. Then strain off the fat, which will 
be found well seasoned and may be used in place of butter or other savory fat for 
seasoning or for warming of potatoes, cooking vegetables, and in other ways. 

CARE OF MUTTON IN THE HOME 

Because of the facility with which mutton absorbs odors and flavors, special 
care should be taken of it in the home. When it comes into the house, it should be 
wiped thoroughly with a damp cloth, and all portions that have the slightest unpleas- 
ant odor about them should be cut off. Such portions are most likely to be found 
where the layer of meat is thin as, for example, on the lower end of the leg, on the 
flank, or on the ribs. When a large piece of mutton is bought, these facts should be 
kept in mind in determining which parts should be used first. It is well, for example, 
to remove the flank end of the loin and part of the rib bones first, and use them for 
soups or stews. The removal of the membrane and the red skin from the sur- 
face of (he meat before it is cooked is also desirable. In roasting mutton, many 
housekeepers believe that it is well to keep the meat well up from the pan by means 
of a rack, for if this is not done the fat of the meat is likely to become scorched 
and to affect the flavor of the meat itself. 

METHODS OF COOKING MUTTON 

In the following pages are given a large number of recipes which have been 
brought together from many sources. Most of them are for standard dishes. Some 
of them, however, are for dishes which, though highly esteemed in other countries, 
are not well known in the United States, and a few are for rather complicated dishes. 
The insertion of these recipes for unfamiliar and elaborate dishes should not be taken 
to indicate that a greater value is placed upon them than upon mutton prepared by 
the simple methods of boiling, roasting, or broiling. They are included because tests 
have shown them to be palatable, and because a knowledge of many ways of pre- 
paring any given food is an easy way of securing variety in the diet. More necessary 
than to know how to prepare mutton in a variety of ways is to keep in mind the 



Preparing of Mutton and Lamb 69 

essential factors which contribute to its satisfactory preparation in simple ways, 
i. e., the careful removal of all portions having an unpleasant odor, the mastery of 
the art of preparing well a simple gravy, and care to keep hot such dishes as are 
intended to be served hot. 

Even if we recognize the advantage of simple methods skillfully followed out 
over complicated methods, we must recognize also that if a greater number of 
modes of preparation were understood in this country and if a greater variety of 
savory sauces were used the possibilities of serving mutton in acceptable forms 
would be greatly increased. 

That quality of mutton which makes it absorb odors and flavors easily is an 
advantage in cooking, for its own flavor combines easily with that of the various 
seasonings in cooking, and, for this reason, the meat yields itself readily to the prep- 
aration of savory dishes. The experience of cooks has, in fact, taught two general 
ways of cooking mutton, one of which consists in developing its own flavor by cook- 
ing it alone, and the other in uniting it with highly seasoned vegetables or other 
substances in such a way as to modify its flavor and to produce a new flavor by the 
combination. The two methods are well illustrated by recipes for boiling mutton. 
The first of these directs that it be cooked in water unseasoned by other substances 
than salt; the second, that such substance as herbs, onions, or garlic be rubbed into 
the meat and bound closely to its surface by means of a cloth before the meat is put 
into water. 

METHODS OF MEASURING 

The measurements in all cases are level. A teaspoonful of an ingredient, for 
example, means enough to come up to the edge of the bowl of the spoon. Such an 
amount is conveniently measured by first taking up more than is needed and then 
pushing off any in excess by means of a knife, allowing the edge of the knife to rest 
on the spoon. 

MAKING OF SOUPS AND BROTHS 

An object to be kept in mind in the making of broths and soups is to get as much 
as possible of the flavoring bodies and of the nutritive material of the meat into 
solution or suspension in the water. This is accomplished, first, by dividing the 
meat into small pieces in order to increase the surface exposed, and, second, by 
keeping the temperature low in order to prevent the proteid from coagulating. When 
the water in which the meat has been soaked is brought to the temperature of about 
52° C, the dissolved proteids begin to harden and rise to the surface in the form of 
scum. This scum is often removed for esthetic purposes, but it should be remem- 
bered that the effect of doing this is to reduce the nutritive value of the broth. 
Whenever there is the slightest doubt about the quality or the freshness of the 
meat, however, the removal of the scum is recommended, for under these circum- 
stances its removal seems to improve the flavor. 

Mutton Juice and ''Extract'' 

Mutton juice or "extract" may be prepared according to any of the ways recom- 
mended for beef juice or homemade "extract." One way is to broil a piece of the 
meat on both sides, and then cut it into small pieces and extract the juice, for in- 
stance, by pressing it with a lemon squeezer or between two plates with a heavy 
weight on top. The object of broiling has usually been said to be "to start the flow 
of the juice." A less concentrated extract is made by cutting the meat into small 
pieces and cooking it in water with the precaution mentioned above — that of keeping 
the water below 130 F. This is most conveniently done in a double boiler or in a 
glass fruit jar immersed in water. 

Mutton Broth 

3 pounds mutton from the neck. I 3 tablespoons rice or barley. 

2 quarts cold water. I 1 teaspoon salt. 

Wipe the meat, remove the skin and fat, and cut the meat into small pieces. Put 
into the kettle with bones, and cover with the water. Heat gradually to the boiling 



70 



Practical Sheep Husbandry 



point and season with salt and with pepper if liked. Cook slowly until the meat is 
tender, strain, and remove the fat. Reheat to boiling point, add the rice or barley, 
and cook until the rice or barley is tender. If barley is used, soak it over night 
in cold water. 



Mutton Soup 



4 pounds mutton from the neck. 

3 quarts cold water. 

3 carrots. 

2 turnips. 

1 small cabbage or part of a 

cabbage. 
1 stalk celery. 



larger 



Few sprigs parsley. 
1 medium-sized onion. 
6 cloves. 
1 sprig thyme. 

1 sprig marjoram. 

2 tablespoons salt. 



Wipe the meat carefully, cut into small pieces, and cover with the water. Bring 
very slowly to the boiling point and skim. Add the vegetables cut into small pieces 
and other seasoning, and cook slowly for three hours. Strain, cool, and remove the 
fat. Serve either clear, with rice, or with the vegetables finely chopped. 

MUTTON STEWS 

In preparing mutton for stews, several different plans may be followed. The 
meat may be cut into small pieces and cooked in water, or it may be first browned 
in fat before being cooked in water. Another way is to mince the raw meat, cook in 
a little fat, and then combine with vegetables. This is suitable when the vegetables 
used are very juicy as in Minced Mutton with Eggplant. 

Scotch Broth 



1 quart rich mutton broth free from fat. 
1 carrot. 

1 turnip. 

2 onions. 



4 stalks celery. 

2 tablespoons butter or mutton fat. 

2 tablespoons flour. 

Salt. 



The liquor in which mutton is boiled may be used in preparing this dish, but it 
will usually need to be boiled down. Cut the vegetables into small pieces and cook 
them slowly in the stock for two hours'. Rub the flour and butter together and add 
to them a little of the hot broth. Stir until the mixture is smooth, then add it to 
the broth. 

When no mutton stock is on hand, prepare it from 2 pounds of mutton from the 
forequarter. Remove the meat from the bone and cut into small pieces and, for 
convenience, tie the bones in a small piece of cloth and cook in the same water in 
which the meat is cooked. In this case, serve the meat with the broth. 

Ragout of Mutton With Farina Balls 



1 % pounds neck of mutton cut into small 

pieces. 
1 tablespoon butter. 
1 tablespoon flour. 
1 onion cut into small pieces. 

1 carrot cut into small pieces. 

2 cut)s iiot water. 



1 teaspoon salt. 

Vi teaspoon pepper. 

M bay leaf. 

1 sprig parsley. 

6 cloves. 

1 cup fresh peas or V2 can peas. 



Put the butter into a frying pan. When melted add the flour and let it brown. 
Then add all the other ingredients except the peas, and cook slowly for two hours 
A short time before serving, add the peas. 

Serve with farina balls made as follows: 



1 cup farina. 

1 cup milk. 

% teaspoon salt. 



% teaspoon pepper. 
Pew drops onion juice. 
Yolk 1 egg. 



Preparing op Mutton and Lamb 71 

Cook farina and milk in the double boiler one hour. Add seasonings and 
well-beaten yolk. Stir well and cool. When cold, roll into balls. Dip in egg 
and crumbs and fry in deep fat. Rice may be used in a similar way. 

Ragout of Mutton With Summer Squash 



2 pounds mutton from the shoulder or 

breast. 
1 onion. 
1 medium-sized summer squash. 

1 sweet green pepper. 

2 stalks celery. 



4 medium-sized potatoes. 

% teaspoon powdered thyme. 

Vi teaspoon powdered marjoram. 

Bit of bay leaf. 

Garlic. (See below.) 

Salt. 



a 



Cut the meat into small cubes and place in a deep baking dish. Cook in c 
hot oven until well browned. Add the onion cut into cubes, the summer squash 
sliced, sweet peppers and celery cut into small pieces, and the other seasonings. 
SuflScient flavor of garlic will be obtained by rubbing the dish with a clove of 
garlic or by adding a very thin slice from one of the cloves. Cover the dish 
and allow the vegetables to cook for an hour with the meat, without the addi- 
tion of water. Then add the potatoes, cut into slices. Cover the dish again and 
cook for another hour. 

Ragout of Mutton With Eggplant 

Follow the directions given in the above recipe, substituting an eggplant for 
the summer squash. 



Syrian Stew 



2 cups raw mutton cut into cubes. 

2 tablespoons fat. 

3 tablespoons flour. 
2 cups string beans. 



2 onions. 

2 cups tomatoes. 

Salt. 

Water. 



Dredge the meat with the flour and brown it in the fat. Put all the ingre- 
dients in a stewpan, scraping from the frying pan all of the flour and fat, and 
add enough water barely to cover. Cook slowly until the meat is tender. 

Haricot of Mutton 



2 tablespoons butter or drippings. 
2 tablespoons chopped onions. 
1% pounds lean mutton cut in 2-inch 
pieces. 



2 cups water. 
Salt and pepper. 
Lima beans. 
Chopped parsley. 



Fry the onions in the butter, remove the onions, add the meat, and brown; 
cover with water and cook until the meat is tender. Serve with a border of 
Lima beans, seasoned with salt, pepper, butter, and a little chopped parsley. 
Fresh, canned, dried, or evaporated Lima beans may be used in making this 
dish. 



Stewed Sheep's Hearts 



2 sheep's hearts. 

2 ounces fat salt pork. 

2 tablespoons minced onion. 

2 tablespoons flour. 



% teaspoon pepper. 
1% pints boiling water. 
Salt. 



Split and wash the hearts, season them with the salt and pepper, and roll 
them in the flour. Try out the pork, and add the onions to the pork fat and 
cook them 10 minutes. At the end of that time, remove the pork and onions 
to a stewpan and fry the hearts in the fat. Transfer hearts to the stewpan. 
Rinse the frying pan with the water, which should then be poured over the 
hearts. Use the flour that remains after the hearts are rolled to thicken the 



72 



Practical Sheep Husbandky 



broth. Cook the hearts in the ^avy for three hours, being careful to keep the 
temperature just below the boiling point. At serving time, the hearts are usually 
sliced and the gravy poured over them. 



Sheep's Tongues 



6 sheep's tongues. 

2 carrots cut into small pieces. 

1 pint boiling water. 

1 large onion cut into small pieces. 



2 slices bacon. 
Vi cup capers. 

3 small cucumber pickles. 
Salt and pepper. 



Scald and blanch the tongues, removing the skins and then throw the tongues 
into cold water until ready to use. Cut a slice of bacon into fine strips and lay 
them in the bottom of a saucespan; place over this the lamb tongues seasoned 
with salt and pepper, and over the tongues another layer of bacon in very fine 
strips. Add the minced carrots and onion; salt and pepper again to taste and 
let the tongues simmer for about 1.5 minutes, and then moisten with about a 
pint of boiling water or broth. Cook slowly about three hours. Then take out 
the tongues, place them on a hot dish, strain the sauce, reheat, and add one- 
fourth cup of capers and three small cucumber pickles, sliced thin. Stir well and 
let the sauce boil up once. Pour over the tongues and serve. 

Boiled Leg of Mutton 

After wiping the meat thoroughly with a damp cloth cover it with water 
which, if haste is an object, should be hot. Cook about 15 minutes for each 
pound, keeping the temperature a little below the boiling point. The proper 
temperature will be indicated by a slight bubbling. When the meat is partly done, 
add the salt and water. 

Boiled Mutton With Vegetables 

To the water in which a leg of mutton is boiled the following may be added: 
2 sliced carrots. 2 stalks celery. 

1 sliced turnip. 1 bay leaf. 

2 sliced onions. 2 cloves. 

The advantage of using these additional substances is that besides flavoring 
the meat and making an attractive garnish for it, they add flavor to the broth 
and thus improve it for use in soups or sauces. 

Boiled Mutton With Sweet Herbs 

After the leg of mutton has been wiped, mix the following and spread over 
the surface. Wrap the niieat in a cloth and fasten the cloth about the meat by 
means of a cord or skewers in order to hold the seasonings close to the surface : 



1 clove of garlic, finely chopped. 

1 finely chopped onion. 

1 teaspoon powdered thyme. 



1 teaspoon powdered sweet marjoram. 
1 teaspoon salt. 



Boiled Mutton With Oyster Sauce 



4 pounds mutton from the shoulder. 
1 onion. 



1 pint oysters. 
Salt. 



Bone the mutton and stuff with half the oysters, or make a gash in the meat 
near the bone and insert half the oysters and tie into shape. Half cover the 
meat with water and cook in a closely covered dish for 2 hours. With the 
remaining oysters make the following sauce : 



Oyster Sauce 



2 tablespoons butter or mutton fat. 
1 tablespoon flour. 
% pint oysters. 



% cup of the liquid in which the mutton 
has been boiled. 



Preparing of Mutton and Lamb 



73 



Drain the oysters and heat and strain the liquor. Wash the oysters, add them 
to the hot oyster liquor and cook until they are plump. Remove the oysters and 
keep warm while making a sauce of the butter, flour, oyster liquor, and mutton 
stock. Add the oysters and season with salt and pepper. 

Steamed Mutton 

Small pieces of mutton may be very satisfactorily prepared by covering the 
surface with powdered or finely chopped seasonings, as suggested in the fore- 
going recipe, and steaming it, or it may be steamed without the seasonsings. 

Sauces for Boiled or Steamed Mutton 

Caper Sauce 



% teaspoon salt. 

% cup capers drained from their liquor. 



Vs cup butter or mutton fat. 

1% cups hot water or mutton broth. 

2 tablespoons flour. 

Melt half the butter or all the mutton fat, add the flour, and cook thoroughly. 
Pour the hot water or stock on gradually. Before serving, add the remaining 
butter (if this is the fat used in preparing the dish) and the capers. If the 
gravy is made somewhat thicker than as above directed it can be spread over 
the surface of the meat. This covers any irregularities in the surface and is 
thought by some people to improve the appearance of the dish. 

Mock Caper Sauce 

For the capers in the above recipe, chopped sour pickles may be substituted. 



Parsley Sauce 



2 tablespoons butter or mutton fat. 

2 tablespoons flour. 

1 cup milk or mutton broth. 



Salt. 

Juice of V2 lemon. 

1 tablespoon finely chopped parsley. 



up miiK or mutton orotn. 1 i-auieapuun imei^ ..nupi^cu 1^0.^0^^^.. 

Melt the butter, add the flour, and cook for two or three minutes, stirring 
constantly. Add the milk and cook until the liquid is thickened. Season with 
salt. Just before serving add the lemon juice and parsley. 

Horse-Radish Sauce No. 1 
(For Cold Boiled Mutton) 



Vz teaspoon salt. 
1 cup milk. 



2 tablespoons cracker crumbs. 

2 tablespoons butter or mutton fat. 
% cup grated horse-radish root. 

Cook the crumbs, horse-radish, and milk 20 minutes in a double boiler, 
the remaining ingredients and serve either hot or cold. 

Horse-Radish Sauce No. 2 

1/3 cup thick cream. I 1 tablespoon vinegar. 

3 tablespoons grated horse-radish root.l Silt and cayenne. 
Whip the cream and add the other ingredients. 

Mutton Savory Loaf 



Add 



2 pounds lean mutton free from bone. 
2 pounds lean fresh pork free from 

bone. 
1 small onion. 

1 green pepper 

2 stalks celery. 

1 bunch parsley. 



1 cup milk. 

2 eggs. 
V2 teaspoon each 

dered thyme, 

paprika. 
1% tablespoons salt. 
1 pound bacon sliced very thin. 



curry powder, pow- 
black pepper, and 



74 Practical Sheep Husbandry 

Remove the seeds from the pepper and put the vegetables and meat through 
a meat grinder, using the finest chopper for the vegetables, and chopping the 
meat about as fine as for Hamburg steak. Mix thoroughly all the ingredients 
but the bacon. Form the chopped meat mixture into a roll about 2 or 3 inches 
in diameter; cover the sides and ends completely with the bacon, roll in a pudding 
cloth or a piece of cheesecloth, and tie securely. This can be conveniently done 
by laying the cloth on a flat surface, and then laying the strips of bacon upon it 
side by side in such a way as to form a continuous layer large enough to cover the 
whole surface of the meat roll. Put the meat roll in the center, and bring the 
bacon up around the sides and ends. The cloth should be tied securely at the 
ends, and either pinned or sewed securely at the side. Boil for three hours in just 
enough water to cover, to which has been added one tablespoon of salt and one- 
half cup of vinegar. This may be served cold or may be cut into slices and 
fried. This mixture may also be either steamed in a mold or baked. If this is 
done, the bacon should be used to line the mold and cover the top of the mixture. 
If baked, it is well to add to the meat mixture a cup of bread crumbs and one-half 
cup of milk. 

For the fresh pork in the above, either an equal amount of ham, veal, or a 
mixture of veal and salt pork, may be substituted. When ham or salt pork is 
used reduce the amount of salt. 



Braised Leg of Mutton 



1 leg mutton. 

Vz medium-sized onion. 

1 carrot. 

1 turnip. 

V2 bay leaf. 



1 sprig each thyme and parsley. 
Vi cup mucton drippings or butter. 
1% teaspoons salt. 
12 peppercorns. 
3 cups hot water. 



Have the leg of mutton boned. Wipe, stuff with the mixture described below, 
sew, and place in a deep pan. Cook the onion (sliced), the carrot and turnip 
(cut into dice) , bay leaf, thyme, and parsley five minutes in the butter or mut- 
ton drippings. Add the hot water, salt, and peppercorns, and pour the mixture 
over the mutton. Cook slowly for three hours, with the dish covered except 
for the last half hour. Make a brown gravy out of the strained broth in which 
the meat has been cooked. 

Stuffing for Braised Leg of Mutton 

The stuffing for the braised leg of mutton is made as follows: 



1 cup cracker crumbs. 

2 tablespoons melted butter. 
hi teaspoon salt. 



% teaspoon pepper. 

V2 teaspoon poultry seasoning. 

% cup boiling water. 



Oven Pot Roast 



3 pounds mutton from the shoulder. 
1 cup potatoes cut into small pieces. 
1 cup carrots cut into small pieces. 



% cup sliced onion. 
2 tablespoons flour. 
Salt. 



Put the meat into an earthenware bean pot and cover with boiling water. 
Place the cover on the pot and let the meat cook in a moderate oven for two 
hours. Add the vegetables and the salt, cover again, and cook for one hour. 
Redcce the liquid in which the meat and vegetables have been cooked to one cup 
cup and thicken with the flour. 

Shoulder of Mutton Braised With Turnips 



6 pounds mutton from the shoulder. 

1 onion. 

1 carrot. 

1 stalk celery. 

4 cloves. 



% bay leaf 
1 quart water. 
6 turnips. 
Salt. 



Preparing op Mutton and Lamb 



75 



Cut the onion, carrot, and celery into small pieces and put these with the 
shoulder of mutton into a deep baking pan. Cover, and allow the mutton juice 
to permeate the vegetables and brown with them.. Then add the water, cloves, 
and bay lea±. Cook m a moderate oven until the meat is tender, which will be 
about 20 niinutes for each pound. One hour before serving, add the turnips, 
which have beeen peeled and parboiled. 

Braised Breast of Mutton 



1 lemon. 
1 onion. 
Salt. 



1 breast mutton. 
Few slices bacon. 
V2 pint stock. 

Line the bottom of a casserole or other earthenware baking dish with a few 
thin slices of bacon, lay the mutton on these, and put over it the lemon, which 
has been peeled and cut into slices. Cover with one or two more slices of bacon 
and add the stock and onion. Cover the dish. Cook slowly on the top of the 
stove or in the oven until the meat is tender. 



Mutton Smothered In Tomatoes 



1% pounds mutton steak. 
1 cup bread crumbs. 
1 small onion. 
Poultry seasoning. 



Salt. 

1 can tomatoes, or 1 quart fresh toma- 
toes cut in slices. 



Spread over the mutton steak a layer of bread crumbs mixed with the minced 
onion and other seasonsings. Roll and tie into shape. Place in a casserole or 
other dish with a tightly-fitting cover. Pour the tomatoes over the meat and 
cook very slowly in the oven or on top of the stove for three or four hours. If 
the tomatoes do not cover the meat, add a little boiling water. 

Braised Leg of Mutton With Sour Gravy 



1 leg of mutton. 

2 tablespoons butter or drippings. 

3 cups vinegar. 
3 cups water. 

% teaspoon each of powdered thyme and 

marjoram. 
% dozen cloves. 
1 clove of garlic. 



V2 cup each of celery, carrots and onions 

finely chopped. 
2 tablesr>'^'>is chopped parsley. 
1 dozen peppercorns. 
V2 bay leaf. 
1 pint sour cream. 
V2 pint stock. 
Salt. 



Fry the celery, carrots, and onions in the fat until light brown, add the vinegar 
and water, and cook until the vegetables are soft. When this mixture is cool, 
pour over the leg of mutton, which should be fully covered and which, for this 
reason, should be in a dish just large enough to hold it. Allow the mutton to lie 
in this mixture for 24 hours. Upon removing it, drain quite dry and bake in a 
moderate oven for 30 minutes. Then pour the sour cream and stock around it and 
cook until tender, basting frequently. Reduce the liquor in which the meat has 
been cooked to a small volume, strain it, and pour over the meat. 

ROASTED MUTTON 

The term "roasting" was originally applied to cooking before an open fire, 
but as now used it is usually synonymous with baking. Since meat cooked by 
this process is subjected to dry heat, even greater precautions must be taken to 
prevent the escape of juices than in boiling. The oven should be very hot until 
the meat is thoroughly seared; then the temperature should be reduced and the 
fat which drips from the meat should be frequently poured over its surface. 

Roast Leg or Saddle of Mutton 

Sprinkle the meat with salt and pepper, place upon a rack in the baking pan, 



76 Practical Sheep Husbandry 

and dredge with flour. Bake in a hot oven, basting frequently. Allow from 10 
to 15 minutes per pound, depending upon whether it is desired well done or not. 

Brown Gravy for Roast Mutton 

In making gravy for roast mutton or any other roast meat, allow 2 level table- 
spoons of fat for each cup of gravy desired, pouring off" any in excess of this 
amount. To the fat add 3 tablespoons of flour and cook thoroughly, browning 
it, but being very careful not to burn it. Add boiling water or broth and boil 
for a short time, stirring constantly. Add salt and pepper. The proportions are 
2 tablespoons of fat, 3 tablespoons of flour, and 1 cup of water or stock. If the 
flour is not browned, only 2 level tablespoons are needed for each cup. 

Currant-Jelly Gravy 

A gravy flavored and made acid with currant jelly is often served with roast 
mutton. To each cup of brovvoi gravy made from the fat of roast mutton add a 
glass of currant jelly or less. The addition of currant jelly is specially suitable 
when cold mutton is to be warmed up in gravy. 

Mint Sauce and Mint Jelly 

Vi cup finely chopped mint leaves. % cup vinegar. 

1 tablespoon powdered sugar. % teaspoon salt. 

Combine the ingredients and let the mixture stand in a warm place until the 
flavor of the mint has penetrated the liquid. 

Mint sauce, which is so generally relished with roast mutton and roast lamb, 
may be made from either the fresh or the dried spearmint. Mint jelly, which 
is also popular, can be made by stiffening mint sauce with gelatin. For this pur- 
pose one-half tablespoonful of gelatin soaked in cold water enough to cover it 
may be used with a cup of mint sauce made as above from freshly chopped mint 
leaves; or make a mint sauce by boiling together one cupful each of vinegar 
(not too strong) and sugar for about five minutes and adding three-fourths cupful 
finely chopped mint leaves and one-fourth teaspoonful of salt and a very little 
naprika. To this add one and one-fourth tablespoonfuls granulated gelatin which 
has been softened in a little cold water. Cool the mixture and stir until it begins 
to thicken and then pour it into small molds or glasses. The amount of mint 
may be increased if a stronger flavor is liked. This jelly can be kept only a short 
time. 

Mint jelly is also made by flavoring apple jelly with green mint leaves. Two 
pounds of apples cut in quarters are cooked with water to cover until soft, as 
for ordinary jelly, and three cups of green mint leaves and tops are added about 
10 minutes before the cooking is completed. To the juice drained from the apple 
and mint, three-fourths of a cupful of sugar and the juice of a large lemon are 
added, and the jelly is cooked until a little tested on a cold plate will harden. It 
is then strained into hot jelly glasses. 

Housekeepers commonly tint jelly made by either method with a little vegetable 
green coloring matter. 

Leg of Mutton Stuffed and Roasted 

For this purpose have the leg of mutton cut into two pieces and use the 
thicker end, which should be boned. Stuff the boned piece and tie into good shape. 
Roast in a hot oven, allowing about 10 minutes for each pound if the meat is 
desired rare, 15 if desired well cooked. 



Dressing for Roast Mutton 



1 pint stale bread crumbs. 
% cup cracker crumbs. 

Vs teaspoon sage. 

2 tablespoons butter. 



1 teaspoon sweet marjoram. 

Salt and pepper. 

Pew drops onion juice. 



Preparing of Mutton and Lamb 



77 



Soak the bread in cold water. Press out nearly all the water, and add the other 
Ingredients. 

Roast Ribs of Mutton With Apples 

After wiping the meat, spread over the surface one finely chopped clove of 
garlic, one chopped onion, one-half teaspoon each of powdered thyme and mar- 
joram, and one teaspoon of salt. Place on a rack and roast in a moderate oven 
from one and one-half to two hours, basting frequently. Place potatoes and sour 
apples around the roast, the former one hour before serving and the latter one-half 
hour. The apples will prove a palatable accompaniment to the roast and will 
impart their flavor to the gravy. 

Roast Mutton With Bananas 

Peel the bananas and bake them for 30 minutes under the mutton. Tart 
fruit relishes, such as spiced currants or those given below, may be served with 
the bananas. 



Fruit Relishes With Roast Mutton 



1 cup prunes cut into small pieces. 

1% cups water. 

3 tablespoons sugar. 



% teaspoon ground cinnamon. 
2 tablespoons currant jelly. 
Juice of V2 orange. 



Boil together until the prunes are soft. 

For the prunes in this recipe raisins or a mixture of equal parts of raisins and 
prunes may be substituted. One-fourth cup of butter is sometimes added. 

These fruit relishes may be served also with sliced cold lamb or mutton and 
are very palatable. 

Roast Mutton With Turnips 

Turnips are frequently cooked under roast mutton. They are sometimes 
stuffed. To prepare in this way, first parboil the turnips and then scoop out 
a portion of each by means of a spoon and fill the cavity with bread which has 
been soaked in cream or in milk to which a little melted butter has been added. 

Baked Breast of Mutton 

Sew up a breast of mutton in a very thin cloth, put it into a stewpan, pour 
over it enough cold salted water to nearly cover it, and let it simmer, allowing 
10 minutey to each pound. Then take it out of the saucepan and out of the cloth 
put it in a baking dish, rub it over with mutton drippings, butter, or savory fat, 
sprinkle some flour over it, and bake for one-half hour in a hot oven, basting fre- 
quently with its own broth. Five minutes before taking it out of the oven strew 
fine dry bread crumbs thickly over it, put little bits of butter here and there, 
and let it brown. Serve with a brown sauce made from the broth in which the 
meat was cooked. 

Mutton and Potato Pie 



1 pound mutton from the shoulder. 

1 onion. 

Vz cup flour. 

1 carrot. 



6 medium-sized potatoes. 
1 teaspoon baking powder. 
1 tablespoon butter. 
Salt. 



Cook the onions, carrots, and meat together in water enough to cover. Boil 
the potatoes separately. Reserve enough of the potatoes to make a cup of mashed 
potatoes. Cut the remaining potatoes and the other vegetables and meat into 
small pieces, and place in a baking dish. Cover with some of the broth thickened 
with the flour. Mash the remaining potatoes. Add butter and salt. Mix this 
with the flour which has been thoroughly sifted with the baking powder. Spread 
this mixture over the ingredients in the baking dish, and bake in a hot oven until 
the crust is brown. 



78 Practical Sheep Husbandry 

broiling 

Broiling is a process closely akin to roasting, as the term was formerly used. 
It is performed over a clear fire, and relatively thin pieces of meat only are 
suitable for the purpose. The searing of the surface, which can be accomplished 
very quickly, is usually sufficient for the retention of the juices. In the case of 
meats having little fat, however, butter or other fat should be rubbed over the sur- 
face before the cooking is begun. 

Chops from the loin or the rib, cutlets from the leg, or thick pieces cut from 
rare boiled or roasted mutton are suitable for broiling. When it is not convenient 
to broil, much the same results can be secured by pan broiling, i. e., cooking in a 
hot pan lightly greased. 

Broiled Loin Chops 

Remove superfluous fat and roll the flank about the tenderloin, fastening it 
with skewers. Place on a broiler greased with some of the mutton fat. Cook 
from six to eight minutes, turning frequently during the first part of the time. 
A sauce of butter to which a little lemon juice and chopped parsley have been 
added is sometimes rubbed over the chops, or since the chops themselves con- 
tain much fat, lemon juice and parsley only may be used, or the chops may be 
served on thin slices of lemon. Onion sauce is by some people considered a great 
delicacy for serving with broiled chops. 

Sauces for Broiled Loin Chops 

Parsley and Butter Sauce 



% tablespoon finely chopped parsley. 
% tablespoon lemon juice. 



Vi cup butter. 
% teaspoon salt. 
Vs teaspoon pepper. 

Cream the butter, add the salt, pepper, and parsley, and then the lemon juice 
very slowly. 



Onion Sauce 



6 large white onions. 
Vi cup butter. 
1 tablespoon flour. 



1 teaspoon sugar. 
V2 cup cream. 
Salt. 



Cut the onions into two or three pieces each, and cook them for 10 minutes 
in boiling salt water. Strain them and cook in a covered saucepan with the 
butter for about three-fourths hour or until they are very tender. Press through 
a puree sieve and reheat. Sprinkle the flour over them, stirring it in thoroughly, 
and add the seasonings. Bring to the boiling point and heat long enough to cook 
the flour thoroughly. 

Tomato Sauce 



2 tablespoons butter. 
2 tablespoons flour. 

Stewed or fresh tomato enough to make 
1 cup when well boiled down. 



1 stalk celery. 
1 sliced onion. 
Few cloves. 
Salt and pepper. 



Cook the tomatoes with the seasonings. Cook the flour thoroughly in the 
butter, strain the tomatoes, and add to them the butter and flour. Cook all 
together until smooth, stirring constantly. 



Montana Steak 



1 pound lean mutton free from bone. 

1 egg. 

% cup milk. 



1 teaspoon salt. 

% teaspoon pepper. 

Pew drops onion juice. 



Preparing of Mutton and Lamb 79 

Chop the meat finely, add the other ingredients, form into small cakes, and 
either broil or fry them. While this dish is more delicate if the egg and milk 
are used, it can be made without them. In this case it resembles very closely 
Hamburg steak as it is ordinarily prepared from beef. It may be made with 
or without onion. 

FRYING 

Prying in deep fat is a method of cooking meat in which it is subjected to 
high temperature, and which imparts a distinctive flavor to the meat. It is a 
common custom to dip meat, fish, etc., cooked by this method, in egg and fine 
crumbs before immersing in the hot fat. 

Fried Crumbed Mutton 

If thin pieces of mutton, either raw or cooked, are dipped in flour, then in egg, 
and then in crumbs and fried in deep fat, they lose less moisture than if broiled. 
This method is especially suitable or rib chops, thin loin chops, or small pieces 
cut from rare cooked meat. Thick chops would hardly be cooked through by 
this process. 

Fried Rib Chops 

Wipe the chops and salt them on both sides, dip them in flour, and then in a 
mixture of egg and water in the proportion of one egg to two tablespoons of 
water and finally in fine cracker crumbs. Fry in deep fat at a temperature 
suitable for foods that have not been already cooked, which is about 350 degrees 
Fahrenheit. In fat of this temperature a small piece of bread from the center 
of the loaf will become a delicate brown in one minute. 

Chops prepared in this way are often served around a mound of mashed 
potatoes. This has the advantage of keeping the chops hot if the precaution has 
been taken to reheat the potatoes after they have been mashed. A depression 
may be made in the mound of potatoes for tomato sauce, which is a good ac- 
companiment for this dish. Broiled or fried chops are sometimes served around 
mounds of peas, young carrots, turnips, fried green peppers, or a puree of beans. 

To prepare the carrots for this purpose, boil them in water, pour off the 
water, and add a little butter, a very little sugar, and chopped parsley. Reheat. 

To prepare green sweet peppers, which are an exceptionally good accom- 
paniment for mutton, remove all the seeds, cut into thin slices, and cook in 
butter and a little water. Allow the water to evaporate after the peppers have 
become tender and cook them in the fat until they begin to brown, but not long 
enough to blacken them. 

Another dish which is often served with mutton chops or roast mutton is a 
puree of navy beans. 

Puree of Navy Beans to Accompany Mutton Chops and Roast 



2 tablespoons mutton drippings. 

2 cloves. 

% teaspoon salt. 

1 quart water. 

1 tablespoon butter. 



1 pint beans. 

1 onion. 

1 carrot. 

1 sprig parsley. 

Pepper. 

Vi pound salt pork or 

Soak the beans over night, drain, and add the other ingredients with the 
exception of the butter. Boil for 30 minutes and cook in a moderate oven for 
one hour. Remove the onions, carrot, and parsley and press through a sieve. 
Add butter and salt (if necessary) and reheat. Similar purees may be made from 
red kidney beans, split peas, and lentils. 

WARMED-OVER MUTTON 

Since the successful recooking of mutton usually consists in utilizing well 
what happens to be on hand, both in the way of meat and also of vegetables or 



80 Peactical Sheep Husbandry 

other accompaniments, it is difficult to give any definite recipes. In many cases 
the preparation of a dish involves simply the reheating of pieces of the cold 
meat in a gravy, and for this reason the principles of the making of gravies should 
be kept in mind in this connection. The proportions for a sauce of suitable 
thickness are two level tablespoons of fat and two of flour to each cup of liquid. 
The fat may be butter, drippings, or savory fat, and the liquid may be water, 
stock, milk, tomato juice, or a combination of two or more of these. Browning 
the flour in the fat is an easy way of securing variety. If this is done the thick- 
ening power of the flour is reduced and the amount used should be three instead 
of two tablespoons to one cup of liquid. 

The following, which is capable of a large number of variations secured by 
using diff'erent fats, liquids, and seasonings, is a good sauce in which to reheat 
mutton. 

Sauce for Warmed-Over Mutton 

1% cups white stock. % cup butter. 

1 slice onion. Vi cup flour. 

1 slice carrot. 

1 sprig parsley. 

2 peppercorns. 



Vi cup flour. 
1 cup scalded milk. 
% teaspoon salt. 
Vs teaspoon pepper. 



Cook the stock 20 minutes with onion, carrot, bay leaf, parsley, and pepper- 
corn, and strain. There should be one cup. Melt the butter, add the flour, and 
gradually the hot stock and milk. Season with salt and pepper. 

Mutton In Gravy 

Cold mutton reheated in gravy or sauce is served with rice, on toast, on bak- 
ing-powder biscuits, with a pastry or biscuit crust, with a crust of mashed po- 
tatoes, or with a crust consisting of mashed potatoes and mashed turnips in pro- 
portion of 2 to 1. 

Cutlets of Cold Mutton 

From a leg of mutton, which has been cooked rare, cut pieces about the size 
of an ordinary loin chop. These may be fried in a little fat, or egged, crumbed, 
and fried in deep fat, or they may be brushed over with fat and broiled. The 
result is like meat cooked for the first time rather than like the ordinary warmed- 
over meat. Cutlets thus prepared may be served with any of the sauces suggested 
for serving with chops. 

Mutton and Tomato Pie 

An excellent way to use cold mutton is to bake it with tomatoes, using alter- 
nate layers of tomatoes and meat. A tomato sauce may be used or the following 
method may be employed: Place in a baking dish a layer of fresh tomatoes 
or of cooked tomatoes which have been either drained or reduced in volume by 
boiling. Add a layer of meat, dredge with flour, salt, and pepper, and add small 
bits of butter until the materials are used, arranging to have a layer of tomatoes 
on top. Cover this with a layer of buttered bread crumbs or cracker crumbs 
and bake until the crumbs are brown. In following this method use tomato, 
butter, and flour in the correct proportions for tomato sauce, i. e., two levil 
tablespoons each of butter and flour for each cup of tomatoes. 

Green Peppers Stuffed With Mutton 

Cut green peppers in two lengthwise and remove all the seeds. Fill with a 
mixture of equal parts of cold mutton and boiled rice well seasoned and moistened 
with a little stock or water. Bake until the peppers are tender. 

Mutton Croquettes 

Like other meats, mutton may be used for croquettes. A general rule for 
making croquettes is to combine two cups of finely chopped cooked meat (or 



Preparing of Mutton and Lamb 



81 



the same amount of a mixture of meat, rice, and potatoes, or other vegetables) 
with one cup of thick sauce. The sauce for this purpose is made by heating one- 
third cup of flour, or one-fourth cup of cornstarch, in three tablespoons of fat, 
and adding a cup of liquid which may be stock, water, milk, tomato juice, or a 
mixture. The amounts given above are those generally used, but the proportion 
of sauce to meat varies under different circumstances, as some substances absorb 
more of this sauce than others do. It is a coi^mon practice, though by no means 
necessary, to add the yolk of a raw egg. After the mixture of meat and sauce is 
cooled it is formed into rolls of uniform size which should be dipped first in flour, 
then in a mixture of two tablespoons of water and one egg, and finally in fine 
cracker crumbs. The temperature for frying croquettes is that for all foods which 
have already been cooked (about 400 degrees Fahrenheit). Pat (oil, lard, drip- 
pings, etc.) at that temperature will brown a piece of bread taken from the center 
of a loaf in 40 seconds. 



Mutton and Caper Croquettes 



3 tablespoons savory fat. 

% cup flour. 

1 cup mutton stock or milk. 



I 2 cups finely chopped cold mutton. 
I 1 tablespoon finely chopped capers. 
Salt. 



Make a sauce out of the fat, flour and liquid, mix with the other ingredients, 
and follow the rules given above for making croquettes. 



Mutton, and Rice Croquettes 

In the above recipe, substitute one cup of cold boiled rice for one of the cups 
of mutton. 

Mutton and Potato Croquettes 

In the recipe for mutton croquettes, substitute two-thirds of a cup of cold 
boiled potatoes cut into small pieces for one of the cups of mutto' 

Steamed Mutton and Rice 



Few drops onion juice. 

1 tablespoon chopped parslp" 

Vi cup bread crumbs. 

1 egg. 

Stock or water. 



4 cups cooked or 

1 cup raw rice. 

2 cuas cooked mutton cut into small 
pieces. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

Vi teaspoon pepper. 

Grease a mold or a bowl of about 11/2 quarts capacity and line with cooked 
rice Heat the meat with the other ingredients, using enough stock to make 
a mixture that is moist, but will hold its shape. Pack the meat in the center 
of the mold and cover with the remaining rice, grease the cover of the mold (if 
a bowl is used, a plate will serve for a cover) , steam or cook m water enough 
to partly cover the mold until the contents are thoroughly heated through. Turn 
it on a hot platter and serve with tomato sauce. ^ , , v, • t j 

The above recipe, it will be noted, suggests the use of bread crumbs instead 
of flour for thickening, which is often a way of saving bread which might other- 
wise be wasted, and which is also one way of securing variety, as a different 
texture results than when flour is used. 

Mock Venison 

Cut cold mutton into thin slices and reheat in a sauce made in the following 
way: 



2 tablespoons butter. 
2 tablespoons flour. 
1 cup water or stock. 



Vi cup red currant jelly. 

1 tablespoon catsup or other meat sauce. 

Salt. 



82 



Practical Sheep Husbandry 



Make a brown sauce out of the butter, flour, and water or stock. 
jelly and other flavorings. 

Turkish Stuffed Tomatoes 



Add the 



In Turkey a number of dishes are prepared from mutton which are interesting 
from the point of view of the food customs of another country, and also palatable. 
The recipes here given have been modified somewhat to accord with our usual 
habits of cookery. One of them involves the use of broken rice, which can easily 
be prepared by the use of an ordinary meat grinder. The following recipe for 
stuffed tomatoes is little different from many used in this country: 

Two tablespoons cooked rice, one-half pound raw mutton, two onions. Pass 
the materials through a meat grinder; season with salt, pepper, and chopped 
parsley; fry in a pan for 10 minutes, stirring constantly. Wash one dozen smooth 
round tomatoes, cut a thin slice from the stem end, leaving a little of the skin 
for a hinge, remove the seeds and pulp, and fill with the meat mixture. Bake in 
a pan for 20 minutes, lift out with a broad knife and serve hot. 

Mutton and Eggplant Pie 

Eggplant pie is a simple and well-seasoned dish made from a vegetable which 
has no marked flavor. It is made by cooking together in a baking pan alternate 
layers of eggplant and of chopped mutton fried in its own fat. Sometimes a 
little tomato juice is added or a few sliced tomatoes. It should be baked until well 
browned. 

Mutton and Rice Rolls 



A characteristic Turkish dish is "sarma" or rolls made of meat and broken 
rice wrapped in grape leaves and then boiled. An acceptable substitute for this 
dish and one more in accord vsdth common methods may be made by cooking chopped 
mutton and rice in a baking dish lined with slices of tart apple, which gives an 
even more pronounced tart flavor than the grape leaves, or the following recipe 
may be used : 

Mutton and Cabbage-Leaf Rolls 



% teaspoon pepper. 
1 head cabbage. 
1 lemon. 



1 cup raw chopped mutton. 

2 tablespoons fat. 
% cup raw rice. 
2 teaspoons salt. 

Throw cabbage leaves of suitable size into boiling water and let them stand 
until they are wilted. Mix the remaining ingredients (with the exception of 
the lemon) and form into rolls, each containing about 1 tablespoon. Wrap 
each roll in a cabbage leaf, removing the thicker part of the stem of the leaf 
if necessary in order to roll it well. Pack these rolls closely into the baking 
dish and cover with water or stock. Bake one-half hour. Just before serving 
squeeze the juice of a lemon over them. 

Or serve with the following: 

Sour Butter Sauce for Mutton and Cabbage-Leaf Rolls 



1 tablespoon chopped pickle. 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley. 

2 tablespoons mutton fat (savory 
2 tablespoons butter. 

plain rendered). 



3 tablespoons vinegar (spiced 

from pickles preferable). 
Salt and red pepper to taste. 



vmegar 



Beat the butter and mutton fat with a spoon until smooth, then beat in the 
vinegar until the sauce looks light colored and the vinegar has all been taken 
up. Add 1 tablespoon of finely chopped pickles and 1 tablespoon of finely chopped 
parsley. 



Preparing op Mutton and Lamb 83 

mutton with fruits 

In the Orient it is a common custom to cook mutton with various fruits. 
Quinces, pears, apricots, and prunesy either fresh or dried, are used for this 
purpose. The fruit and meat should be cooked separately and reheated in com- 
bination. Some recipes direct that the meat be browned before cooking in water, 
others that it simply be stewed in water. Of the many recipes that might be given 
the following, based on oriental recipes, are selected: 

Mutton With Quinces 

For this recipe use any cut of mutton suitable for stewing and twice its 
weight of raw quinces. Cut the meat into small pieces and brown them either 
in mutton fat or butter. Cover with boiling water, add salt, and cook slowly 
until tender. Pare and quarter the quinces and cook them in a small amount 
of water until tender. Combine the meat with the fruit and cook slowly for 
10 or 15 minutes. Serve with rice. Variety may be obtained by making a 
brown gravy with the fat in which the meat is fried and cooking the meat in that. 

Mutton With Sour Apples 

In the above recipe sour apples may be substituted for quinces. 

Mutton Baked With Apples and Onions 

2 pounds mutton cutlets from neck. I 1 onion. 

Salt. I 4 medium-sized apples. 

Prepare the meat by removing the bone and superfluous fat. Season with 
salt and lay in a baking dish. Cover the meat with finely sliced sour apples and 
finely chopped onions. Bake in a moderate oven until the meat is tender, which 
will be about one hour. 

CORNED MUTTON AND ITS USES 

For convenience, the amounts are changed so as to be suitable for the 
quantity of meat which would usually be used in the home. If larger quantities 
are corned, the quantities should be increased proportionately. The shoulder is 
the cut most frequently corned. The leg is delicious corned, but it is too ex- 
pensive to be used in this way except for the purpose of preserving it. 



1 tablespoon saltpeter. 
% cup brown sugar. 



10 pounds mutton. 

1% cups salt. 

Vz tablespoon baking soda. 

Rub the salt thoroughly into the meat, covering every portion, and allow the 
meat to stand with the salt on it for 24 hours; then pour over it the other in- 
gredients dissolved in a small amount of lukewarm water. Add water enough to 
cover the meat, and allow the meat to stand in the brine for at least three or 
four days. Meat thus corned will keep in good condition for a long time. Since 
mutton absorbs salt more readily than beef, special care should be taken to 
avoid using too much of it. 

Corned mutton may be used in all the ways in which corned beef is used. 
The broth in which it is boiled makes good soup when seasoned with onion and 
turnip or other vegetables. 

MUTTON sausages 

Sausage can be made from mutton mixed with pork in much the same way as 
beef is used for similar purposes. A general formula would be: Mutton, 2 parts; 
lean fresh pork, 1 part; and fat, pork, 1 part; with salt and seasoning to suit the 
taste Such sausage can be made into cakes and cooked at once or may be packed 
in skins or bags in the usual way. Homemade sausage is very commonly kept 
frozen. When this is not possible, it is often convenient to make small quantities 
for immediate use. 



84 Practical Sheep Husbandry 



Mutton Sausage No. 1 



1 pound mutton free from bone. 
% pound fat fresh pork. 
Vs teaspoon black pepper. 



% teaspoon salt. 

Vi teaspoon each, marjoram, thyme, and 
sage. 



Put the meat through a sausage or meat grinder, and mix thoroughly with 
the other ingredients. Pack in a bag about 2 Vz inches in diameter and keep in a 
very cool place. Cut into slices and fry. If it is to be used at once packing in 
a bag is not necessary; instead the chopped and seasoned meat may be made 
into cakes. 

Mutton Sausage No. 2 



% pound mutton free from bone. 

% pound veal. 

% pound salt pork. 

% teaspoon salt. 



% teaspoon each, marjoram, thyme, and 

sage. 
Vs teaspoon black pepper. 



In preparing the sausage, follow the directions for Mutton Sausage No. >• 



Boost Your Own Product 

Every producer should boost his business and kill a few lambs each 
year, advertise the fact among his neighbors, and get them to eating 
and using his product, by giving them recipes and showing them how 
to prepare this delicious food, so they will be asking him or the butcher 
for it. Think of it! A man said to me the other day: "I have been 
feeding and handling sheep for many years, and have never tasted 
mutton or lamb." Should this man complain about the lack of demand 
for his product? If the reader does not develop an appetite in reading 
these splendid recipes over once, he should repeat the dose as often as 
necessary. 



isscjSrgSSHBaS'Higia-" 




