
MERRELL-SOULE 
PRODUCTS 




In ^fe Bakery 



.» ir, ■ iimrr- 



MERRELL-SOULE 
PRODUCTS 



In The bakery 



MERRELL-SOULE COMPANY 

General Offices 
SYRACUSE, NEW YORK 



Vi .m m » ri > ii ku »' i innnor- 






Copyright 1919 

MERRELL-SOULE COMPANY 

Syracuse, N. Y. 



>4 1919 
©CI.A5 15613 



'^\ c:. 



CONTENTS 



What is MErrEll-Soule Powdered Milk? 5 

A Tribute to MerrEll-Soule Powdered Milk, by Prof. O. F. Hunziker . 6 

Development of the Ideal Method op Milk Preservation ... 7 

The MerrEll-SoulE Spray Process 8 

A Trip Through a MerrEll-Soule Powdered Milk Factory ... 10 

MerrEll-SoulE Milk Products : 

Powdered Skimmed Milk 12 

Butterfat Powders 1^ 

"Cream Powders" 1^ 

Powdered Buttermilk 14 

MerrEll-Soule Powdered Milk Products in the Baking Industry . 16 

Bakers' Technical Service Department 16 

General Baking and Cooking Uses I''" 

Advantages of MerrEll-Soule Powdered Milk for Baking ... 18 

Directions for Restoring Powdered Milk for Bakery Use ... 19 

Powdered vs. Liquid Milk— Quality, Cost, Yield 20 

In Yeast-Raised Baked Goods 21 

Sweet Yeast Dough Goods 29 

Powdered Buttermilk— Uses and Value in Baking 32 

Rope, Its Formation and Habits 36 

Methods of Elimination 37 

Use op MerrEll-SoulE Milk Products in Cake Baking .... 38 

In Pie Baking— PiE Crust, Pie Filling and Soft PiES .... 48 

Simple Tests for the Buyer op Powdered Milk 57 

Sediment ^° 

Moisture 

Flavor ^^ 

Bacteria 

Butterfat 

Albumen 

Comparative Analyses "4 

64 
Federal Standards 

Bakers' Brick Mince Meat ^^ 

Confectioners' Mince 

How Bakers' Brick Mince Meat is Made 65 

Uses op Bakers' Brick Mince Meat in the Bakery 67 

Confectioners' Mince in the Bakery 

74 
At Your Service 



What Is Merrell-Soule 
Powdered Milk? 

IT is rich, pure milk, reduced to powder by a process in which no 
vital or nutritive quality of the milk is affected. 

It is a form of milk in which bacteria cannot propagate. 

It is the cleanest and purest form in which milk can be packed, 
shipped and stored. 

It is milk whose transportation cost has been reduced seven-eighths 
(liquid milk is seven-eighths water). 

It is the most convenient, most economical preparation of milk, for 
baking, candy-making, ice-cream manufacture, and all dairy and cream- 
ery purposes. 

It is a veritable boon to hotels, restaurants, clubs, steamships, settle- 
ment houses, etc., needing only to be mixed with water in order to 
produce an instant, pure and palatable supply of milk for drinking or 
cooking. 

It is a product which holds within itself and its development the 
brightest possibilities, greatest growth and most assured success of the 
milk industry, and every industry dependent on milk. 



"The product of the Merrell and Gere process 
is without question superior to any milk powder 
manufactured by the various processes herein 
mentioned. It embodies the three all important 
characteristics of a desirable and successful milk 
pozvder; namely, it contains less than the mini- 
mnm amount of moisture zuhich permits of 
bacterial action, its butt erf at is retained in the 
globular form and does therefore mix zvith water 
readily, forming a complete emulsion, and its 
albumen is present in its natural non-coagulated 
and soluble form, ensuring complete solubility of 
this dried milk in water." — From "Condensed 
Milk and Milk Powders," by O. F. Hunziker, 
B.S.A.,M.S.A., Professor of Dairy Husbandry, 
Purdue University, and Chief of the Dairy De- 
partment of the Indiana Agricultural Experiment 
Station, Lafayette, Ind. 



Development of the Ideal Method 
of Milk Preservation 

ONE thing above all others has been sought in the milk industry — 
to find a process of preservation by which milk could be put 
away when it was plentiful and released for consumption in the seasons 
when there was a shortage; a method by which milk could be trans- 
ported great distances, to any climate, in any season, at minimum 
transportation cost, and stored without deterioration for long periods 
of time. 

The desired process must, it was evident, be one which would not 
affect the active principles or the nutritive qualities of milk, nor change 
its chemical reactions in any way. The product when reaching the 
consumer must be, in every essential quality. Fresh Milk. 

The methods known as condensation and evaporation, also the 
earlier milk powder processes, were efforts to achieve the desired 
result. But in none of them was the goal completely attained, as it 
is to-day in Merrell-Soule Powdered Milk — the product of a perfected 
process. 

Liquid Milk is seven-eighths water. Merrell-Soule Powdered Milk 
contains approximately 2 per cent, of moisture. Transportation cost 
is thus reduced to a very small percentage of the expense of shipping 
liquid milk. The fact that powdered milk may be shipped by freight, 
while liquid milk must go by express or baggage, means an additional 
saving. 

The expense of shipping powdered milk is also, of course, much 
lower than the transportation cost of the condensed product. 

The Merrell-Soule process reduces the bacteria count to a remark- 
ably low figure, and it is a demonstrated fact that the bacteria which 
are to be found in the fresh-made powder tend to decrease, rather than 
propagate, during storage. 

Merrell-Soule Powdered Milk is quickly and easily dissolved in 
water, and the "reconstituted" liquid milk thus obtained is pure, fresh 
milk, with the delicate odor and unmistakable flavor of fresh milk, and 
with every chemical reaction and nutritive property of fresh milk 
retained unchanged. 



• Merrell-Soule Spray Process 

Its History and Development 

THE history of Powdered Milk dates back to the middle of the 
last century, when an inventor named Grimwade patented, in 
England, the first commercially usable process. 

He added carbonate of soda to fresh milk, evaporated it in open- 
jacketed pans, with constant agitation, until a dough-like substance 
resulted; added cane sugar, pressed the mixture between rollers into 
ribbons, dried it still further, then pulverized it. 

This process, cumbersome and unsatisfactory as it must have been, 
was in practice for some years. Other processes followed at intervals 
for half a century, but the real commercial development of the industry 
dates back only about twenty years. 

;!: ;[:*** * .-1= * * •-!= * 

It was in 1899 that a machine for the drying of milk by what has 
since become known as the "double roll" process was invented by W. 
B. Gere, since deceased, then secretary of Merrell-Soule Co., and I. S. 
Merrell, first vice-president of the company. But the "dry milk" 
which resulted from this process was not satisfactory, and for that 
reason was not put on the market by Merrell-Soule Company. 

Several other processes were then tried out, but none proved satis- 
factory until Lewis C. Merrell, brother of I. S. Merrell, hit upon the 
spraying of milk into a regulated current of heated air. This gave 
the quality that had been desired, and the next thing vvas to determine 
the commercial value of the process. 

In January, 1905, a building owned by Merrell-Soule Company at 

Fayetteville, N. Y., was equipped, and powdered milk was produced, 

in a small way, by this spray process. Enough was marketed, and with 

sufficiently gratifying results, to warrant the company in going ahead 

with the enterprise. 

^k ********** 

Meantime, patents had been applied for, and the patent office had 
referred Merrell-Soule Company to a United States patent granted in 



Merrell-Soule Products 



1901 to Robert Stauf, of Posen, Germany, which seemed to cover the 
process. F. C. Soule, president of Merrell-Soule Company, thereupon 
went to Germany and bought not only the United States patent held 
by Stauf, but also thirteen foreign patents owned by Stauf and his 
associates. 

The wisdom of the purchase of all the patents held by the Stauf 
interests has since been amply demonstrated. In 1915, patent litiga- 
tion which had been in the courts for three years was decided by the 
Court of Appeals in favor of Merrell-Soule Company, the decision 
being based on this company's possession of the basic patents governing 
the spray process of powdered milk manufacture. 

Following the success of the experiment at Fayetteville, the con- 
struction of the first Merrell-Soule Powdered Milk factory, at Arcade, 
N. Y,, was begun in 1906. Before this factory was completed, it had 
been discovered that a better product could be obtained by condensing 
the milk in a vacuum pan before spraying. This resulted in new patents 
covering what was known as the Merrell-Gere process, embodying the 
original Stauf method and the improvement mentioned. Since then 
many other improvements have been made at the Merrell-Soule plants 
and many other patents taken out. 

The first powdered milk factory, at Arcade, was followed by a sec- 
ond, at Little Valley, N. Y., in 1909. Since then factories have been 
established at Frewsburg, N. Y., Union City, Pa., Farmersville Station, 
N. Y., Warsaw, N. Y., Gainesville, N. Y., Attica, N. Y., and Omaha, 
Neb. 

Consumption of milk has increased from 18,000 quarts per day, in 
1906, at Arcade, to 400,000 quarts per day, at the present time, in the 
ten factories. The output of Powdered Milk has grown from 2,500 
pounds per day, twelve years ago, to a present capacity of 70,000 
pounds per day. 



^ 



/■; 




A Trip Through a Merrell-Soule 
Powdered Milk Factory 

PICTURE to yourself a large, light, clean room, with a wide door- 
way at one side where cans of milk — fresh, cold and sweet — are 
being unloaded from big drays, in almost unending succession. 

There you will have the first step in the manufacture of Merrell- 
Soule Powdered Milk. This first step includes more, however, than 
the mere collecting of the cans of milk from the farmers, and their 
transportation to the testing and weighing room. Every farm which 
sends milk to a Merrell-Soule factory is visited, as often as may be 
necessary, by a Merrell-Soule inspector, whose business it is to see that 
strictly sanitary conditions are maintained by the farmer. 

Unloaded at the factory, each can of milk passes first to a man who 
removes the cover and lifts it to his face, so as to catch the odor which 
has risen from the milk into the cover. Just a whiff is sufficient for 
this expert. If the odor indicates any condition which he knows should 
not be present in fresh, sweet milk, that can is set aside. Not only 
is it rejected, but an investigation is made, to ascertain the cause of its 
condition, and steps are at once taken to correct wrong conditions at 
the farm from which it came. 

Not often does this occur, because of the vigilant inspection at all 
farms. Most of the cans, passing rapidly on an automatic conveyor 
before the expert tester, are accepted, the milk is weighed and emptied 
into receiving tanks. 

Next comes the "skimming" of the milk — the removal of the butter- 
fat — by a separator. The cream which is removed is pasteurized and 
placed in cans to be marketed. The skimmed milk is also pasteurized, 
then it goes to a vacuum pan, where part of the water it contains is 
removed by condensation, at a temperature which does not coagulate 
the albumen nor affect any vital principle of the milk. 

Now comes the operation which is both most interesting to watch 
and most important in making Merrell-Soule Powdered Milk absolutely 



^ 

^ 



n 



^ 



n 



•^ 



C: 





^ 



u. 



c. 



Merrell-Soule Products 



11 



different from, and superior to, powdered milk made by any other 
process. This is the spraying process, covered by the Merrell-Soule 
patents. 

In this process the partly condensed milk is sprayed through tiny 
holes in metal discs into a current of warm air. The moisture in the 
milk is instantly absorbed by the heated air, the remaining solid portion 
separates into minute particles and falls like the finest, drifting snow 
to the floor of the chamber in which this process takes place. 

These tiny particles, closely massed as the finest flour, constitute 
the finished product — Merrell-Soule Powdered Milk. 

Gathered up, after it has fallen to a depth of several inches, the 
milk powder is ready for packing. 



It is an important as well as a noteworthy fact that no chemical 
change is produced in the milk by the spraying process. There is no 
super-heating of the milk particles when they are blown into the cur- 
rent of hot air. Instead, the instant evaporation has a cooling effect — 
the process not only takes heat from the air, but also from the interior 
of the particles, so that the milk solids become cooler and cooler until 
perfectly dry. 

It is not necessary to neutralize the acidity of the milk, for the 
moisture is removed so quickly that neither the albumen nor the casein 
is affected in any way by the concentration of the acid. 

The powdered milk, in frequent tests, has been found to contain less 
than two per cent, of moisture — and no bacterial action has been dis- 
covered in milk powder containing less than three per cent, of moisture, 

Merrell-Soule Powdered Milk is in every way an ideally-preserved 
milk — soluble, containing the lowest obtainable percentage of moisture, 
offering no breeding place for bacteria, and free from the strong 
"cooked flavor" so noticeable in many other milk powders. 




EICEIVING MILK AT 

A merm:ll-.5oule 

FACTORY . * <, * 




Merrell-Soule Milk Products 

THERE is a Merrell-Soule Powdered Milk product for every need 
that can be met by liquid milk or cream, condensed or evap- 
orated milk, or buttermilk. 

These products include Powdered Skimmed Milk, Butterfat 
Powders, of varying butterfat content, "Cream Powders," which con- 
tain up to 72 per cent, butterfat, and Powdered Buttermilk. 

Merrell-Soule Powdered Skimmed Milk may truthfully be said to 
afford the closest approach to an ideally preserved milk that can be 
found. 

Powdered Skimmed Milk 

It is pure, fresh skimmed milk, reduced to powder form by the 
Merrell-Soule Spray Process. It will keep almost indefinitely, in cool, 
dry storage, and when it is "reconstituted" into liquid milk, by the 
simple process of dissolving it in water, the resultant beverage will be 
found as fresh and palatable as new milk from the cow. Decomposi- 
tion having been prevented solely by dryness, and without changing 
the chemical composition of the milk, it can be demonstrated that no 
essential property of the fresh skimmed milk has been diminished or 
altered. 

Merrell-Soule Powdered Skimmed Milk is used in dairies and 
creameries for standardizing milk, for making butter "starter," for the 
manufacture of liquid milk, cream and buttermilk. Ice cream makers 
use it for standardizing milk, for making liquid milk and cream, and 
for "milk solids." 

The baker uses it in bread, cakes, custards, creams, piecrust — in 
any way that he would employ liquid milk. Confectioners find that it 
surpasses any other form of skimmed milk for the making of delicious, 
delicately-flavored caramels, milk coatings and fudges. 

Hotels, clubs, steamships, restaurants, by using Merrell-Soule 
Powdered Skimmed Milk, avoid the annoyances of shortage, delivery 
troubles, souring. Fresh, pure liquid skimmed milk can be made up, in 



Merrell-Soule Products 



13 



any desired quantity, whenever needed, for drinking, cooking, or the 
making of ice cream. 

Milk stations, by having Merrell-Soule Powdered Skimmed Milk 
on hand, are enabled to meet unexpected demands, and to take care of 
shortages. Condensaries are using Powdered Skimmed Milk in the 
manufacture of "Superheated Condensed" for the dairy trade. 

Butterfat Powders 

Merrell-Soule Butterfat Powders are made from milk which con- 
tains varying amounts of natural butterfat content. 

For instance, No. 14 Butterfat Powder has as a base a "half- 
skimmed" milk, containing approximately 1.6 to 1.8 per cent, of butter- 
fat. It is used for Prepared Cocoa, in Milk Chocolate, for confec- 
tionery, in biscuit, crackers and other bakery goods, and for the making 
of a rich grade of Lactated Buttermilk. 

Fresh liquid pasteurized whole milk, standardized to contain 3.5 
per cent, butterfat, is used for the manufacture of No. 25 Butterfat 
Milk Powder. In the powder, the percentage of butterfat runs from 
26 to 27y2 per cent. This product is commonly known as Powdered 
Whole Milk and can be used for all purposes for which ordinary cow's 
whole milk is used. 

It is ideal for bakery purposes requiring whole milk, for the manu- 
facture of milk chocolate and all milk confections, and for the produc- 
tion of Normal Whole Milk. 

Both this powder and the No. 14 Butterfat Powder will remain 
sweet and in perfect condition for from three to six months, without 
refrigeration, and will keep indefinitely, in dry cold storage. 



Cream Powders ' ' 

In a group under the general designation of "Cream Powders" are 
the No. 50, No. 65 and No. 72 Merrell-Soule Butterfat Milk Powders. 




14 Merrell-Soule Products 

The No. 50 is manufactured from milk containing 9 per cent, of 
butter fat, and the butter fat in the powder amounts to 50 per cent. In 
the No. 65 the butterfat content in the milk base is 15 per cent., in the 
powder 65 per cent. The No. 72 is made from standard cream, con- 
taining 18 per cent, butterfat in liquid form. There is approximately 
72 per cent, butterfat in the powder. 

The No. 72 is therefore the only one of the three which can 
legitimately be termed a "Powdered Cream," though the other two are 
commonly referred to as "Cream Powders." The cream made from 
the No. 72 powder will not whip, as whipping cream must contain 26 
to 28 per cent, of butterfat in the liquid form. 

All the Merrell-Soule "Cream Powders" are unexcelled for the 
manufacture of Ice Cream and Confectionery. The No. 50 is widely 
used by bakers in fancy crackers and cakes. No. 72 may be recon- 
stituted into Fresh Pasteurized Cream. 

Powdered Buttermilk 

After Merrell-Soule Company had successfully produced the 
various Powdered Milk products which have been described, the engi- 
neering and chemical departments sought a way to adapt the Merrell- 
Soule process to buttermilk. 

It was found that the lactic acid contained in liquid buttermilk pre- 
sented new problems which had to be met. All difficulties, however, 
were eventually overcome, and a highly satisfactory product obtained. 

In order to manufacture Powdered Buttermilk commercially, it 
was necessary to insure a supply of liquid buttermilk great enough to 
warrant the erection of a factory for the manufacture of Powdered 
Buttermilk exclusively. To this end, an agreement was made with one 
of the largest manufacturers of creamery butter in the United States, 
with its creamery located at Omaha. Merrell-Soule Company obtains 
its supply of fresh liquid buttermilk from this company's churns. 



Merrell-Soule Products 15 

As in all Merrell-Soule products, quality is the first consideration 
in the manufacture of Merrell-Soule Powdered Buttermilk. The 
creamery purchases its cream on a strict quality basis, and in the grad- 
ing of the cream the buttermilk is also graded. Only buttermilk from 
first-class cream is used in the manufacture of Merrell-Soule Powdered 
Buttermilk. Every sanitary precaution is employed, and our Omaha 
factory is under the direct supervision of the Merrell-Soule production 
and chemical departments, assuring a uniform product. 

Merrell-Soule Powdered Buttermilk guaranteed to comply with all 
Federal and State food laws, has come to be one of the most important 
and valuable products offered for the baker's use. For particulars of 
its uses and advantages in the bakery, see pages 32-35. 

Merrell-Soule Powdered Buttermilk is also employed with excellent 
results in cracker and biscuit manufacture, and for the manufacture of 
prepared flours. It can not be used for the making of liquid buttermilk 
which is to be used as a beverage, nor for the baking of custard or 
cream pies. 



Merrell-Soule Powdered Milk Products 
in the Baking Industry 

IN the following pages, it is our purpose to describe the general 
bakery uses of Merrell-Soule Powdered Skimmed Milk and 
Merrell-Soule Powdered Buttermilk, to give necessary technical 
information regarding the employment of these products as ingredients 
in the manufacture of baked goods, and to show the advantages gained 
by their use. 

However, it is well to bear in mind that each day brings to light 
new discoveries made by men in the industry who are on the alert to 
extend their technical knowledge by research, investigation and experi- 
ment. Therefore it would be an impossibility for us to cover all the 
possible uses for our products in this book. 

But we are confident that the reader will find herein much valuable 
instruction regarding the uses of Merrell-Soule Powdered Milk in the 
baking industry. We shall be more than pleased to hear from our 
readers who have questions to ask, and we will do our best to answer 
every inquiry clearly and fully. 

Centuries ago the wise men of the East had a proverb to the effect 
that "he who knows not, and knows not that he knows not, is a fool; 
shun him!" 

Bakers' Technical Service Department 

In another class they placed those who, knowing not, but knowing 
that they know not, have begun to seek the light. To such as these, 
among the bakers of the United States, v/e are able to offer informa- 
tion which has been gained through practical experience and diligent 
research. 

Of a few in the baking industry, it may be said that they know, 
and they know that they know. To them the rest of the proverb 
applies, which says: "follow them!" From these last-named we have 
received many valuable suggestions — hereby gratefully acknowledged. 



Merrell-Soule Products 17 

Revelations in the baking industry, in recent years have caused 
bakers to see as never before what vocational training means, and that 
technical training is a necessity to the man who is to hold his own, in 
the strenuous competition which prevails in the industry. 

Merrell-Soule Company long ago discovered the important fact 
that men who have at least an elementary knowledge of technical mat- 
ters appertaining to the baking industry will be best able to sell goods to 
the bakery trade. With this in mind, the Company established its 
Bakers Technical Service Department, managed by an expert possess- 
ing the necessary vocational training. Experimental service is con- 
ducted in connection with this department, and a well-equipped labora- 
tory, together with the services of specially qualified chemists, is avail- 
able for the working out of any technical problem concerning the use 
of Merrell-Soule Products. 

It is the desire of Merrell-Soule Company to assist in bringing 
the baking industry to a higher plane, by giving the baker and the supply 
house salesman a direct insight into the manufacture, uses and ad- 
vantages of Merrell-Soule products, brought by years of research to 
their present high standard of quality. 

General Baking and Cooking Uses 

For general baking, Merrell-Soule Company offers the following 
Powdered Milk products : 

Merrell-Soule Powdered Skimmed Milk, manufactured from 
separated milk, is used in the manufacture of bread, rolls, crullers, 
sweet yeast dough goods, crackers and biscuits, c[uick breads, cakes, 
cookies, cones, custards, cream fillings of all kinds and soft pie fillings. 

Merrell-Soule No. 25 Butterfat Powder, a whole milk standardized 
to contain 3^ per cent, butterfat, and reduced to powder form, is used 
for fancy cakes, better grade cream fillings, custards, and in goods 
where additional butterfat and a fine butter flavor are desired. 



18 Merrell-Soule Products 

Merrell-Soule Powdered Buttermilk is natural buttermilk, taken 
from the churns of one of the largest butter factories in the United 
States and reduced to powder form. It is known as the greatest bread 
improver on the market and its use up to 2^^ per cent, in yeast doughs 
of all kinds will result in advantages that cannot be obtained in any- 
other way. Crullers and doughnuts containing this product have be- 
come a much sought after specialty in districts where they have been 
introduced by progressive bakers. As an ingredient for batter cakes, 
such as pancakes of all kinds, buckwheat cakes and griddle cakes, it 
has long been recognized by manufacturers of mixed patent pancake 
flours as an ideal material. 

Advantage of Merrell-Soule Powdered Milk 

for Baking 

We have said that it is difficult to enumerate all the advantages of 
a good Powdered Milk, for even our oldest users are still finding new 
ways of working with this product. The greater benefits, however, 
may be summed up in these words: "Supply, Cleanliness, Convenience, 
Economy." 

Your supply is assured because the Merrell-Soule factories, in the 
milk producing districts, manufacture a surplus of Powdered Milk 
from absolutely fresh milk, in the flush periods, so that there is an 
ample supply of Powdered Milk for the consumer in the seasons when 
milk is scarce. Thus supply and demand are equalized. 

Cleanliness is paramount. The dairies producing the liquid milk 
are carefully watched, resulting in ideal sanitary conditions, and assur- 
ing the consumer a clean and pure milk supply, and one of lower 
bacteria content than the usual market milk. Also, there are no sticky 
condensed milk containers standing around to draw flies and breed 
bacteria in the bakery, when ■ the baker is using Merrell-Soule 
Powdered Milk to make up just the supply he needs each day. 



Merrell-Soule Products 19 

Great convenience results from the fact that Merrell-Soule 
Powdered Milk is always ready for use, in any quantity. 

Utmost economy is achieved by the transportation of the milk solids 
in powder form. Carrying charges are reduced to a minimum, and 
there is no spoiling in case of freight delays. It does not require cold 
storage to carry stock. As one barrel of Powdered Milk contains the 
milk solids of 20 to 25 forty-quart cans of liquid milk, the baker is able 
to carry ahead at all times sufficient stock for all purposes, and can 
restore daily only as much milk as is required for that day. There 
need be no loss from sour milk. 

Specific advantages applying to every class of baked goods are fully 
gone into in the following pages, which explain the definite uses, exact 
methods for handling and thoroughly tested formulas for the employ- 
ment of Merrell-Soule Powdered Milk in the manufacture of baked 
goods. 

Directions for Restoring Powdered Milk 
for Bakery Use 

Merrell-Soule Powdered Skimmed Milk for bakery use. Mix 3^ 
ounces to 1 quart of water, or 14 ounces to 1 gallon of water. The 
best method is to place about half of the water in a pail or can, if you 
are working by hand, empty the sifted powder on top of the water, 
then beat up with an Qgg whip until dissolved. Add the rest of the 
water and stir again. If your bakery is equipped with a cake-mixing 
machine, put half the water in the kettle, adjust the whip attachment, 
put the sifted powder on top of the water while your machine is in 
motion. Run until thoroughly dissolved, and add balance of the water. 
For fine cream or custard work, it is well to strain the solution before 
adding to the rest of the ingredients. Water used in restoring skimmed 
milk should be tepid or lukewarm. 

Merrell-Soule No. 25 Butterfat Powder, for bakery use. Mix 4>^ 
ounces to a quart of water, or one pound of powder to 7 pounds of 



20 Merrell-Soule Products 

water for an even gallon of whole milk. Dissolve according to the 
same method as for skimmed milk. Warm water should be employed, 
to secure quicker solution, on account of the amount of butterfat con- 
tained in this product. 

Merrell-Soule Powdered Buttermilk. Amount and method to be 
used is particularly gone into and explained in an article regarding its 
use in yeast doughs, in a succeeding chapter. 

Merrell-Soule Powdered Milk can be used as a dry ingredient, that 
is, mixed with other dry ingredients before water is added to the 
batch, but we recommend this only in specific instances where formulas 
show this method, as we have found by much experimenting that for 
general cooking and baking purposes better results are obtained if the 
Powdered Milk is mixed with water and used as milk. 

Powdered versus Liquid Milk — 
Quality, Cost, Yield 

It has been demonstrated that Merrell-Soule Powdered Milk will 
give superior flavor and higher quality to baked goods than can be 
obtained by the use of fluid commercial milk. In addition, Powdered 
Milk gives the same percentage of nourishing properties as fresh milk, 
with the advantage that the baker can at will increase these properties 
by using an added amount of milk solids, which cannot be done when 
liquid milk is used. 

As to comparative cost, it is easy for any baker to determine, by 
experimenting with small trial doughs, the increased volume in baked 
goods, both in size and weight, obtainable by reason of the moisture- 
absorbing properties of Powdered Milk, as against sweetened-con- 
densed, condensed or evaporated, formerly used in these batches. 

To assist the buyer of baking materials in arriving at lowest cost, 
we think it well to call attention to certain points to be considered when 
purchasing Powdered Milk, in comparison with Sweetened-Condensed, 
Condensed or Evaporated, of the same butterfat content. 



Merrell-Soule Products 21 



The first cost of all milk is based on its solid content, that is, per- 
centage of btitterfat and other milk solids. In figuring comparative 
value, the buyer should ascertain, through careful analysis, the amount 
of soHds contained in condensed, evaporated or sweetened-condensed. 
The amount of added cane sugar shown in the solids must be taken 
into consideration at the market price of such sugar only. The solid 
content of these liquid products varies as does their price. 

In Merrell-Soule Powdered Milk, the moisture content is set fast 
at 3 per cent, or less, because on this feature the keeping qualities of 
our Powdered Milk depend. It has been found that no bacterial action 
takes place in powder, the moisture content of which is so reduced. 
No foreign matter, no filler, no preservative is added. 

A good test for showing the comparative value of Powdered Milk 
in expansive and absorptive qualities can be easily made by anyone, 
as indicated in the illustration, "A Good Baking Test Showing the Life 
of the Milk Powder." This is a positive proof of whether or not the 
baker is getting full value, and it plainly shows what Powdered Milk 
does in giving extra yield, expansion and life to doughs and mixes. 

In determining comparative yield, it must be taken into considera- 
tion that instead of adding a liquid to the mix, the baker in using a 
solid, which will, on account of its albumen content and dried casein, 
absorb more water than high grade patent wheat flour. 

In Yeast Raised Baked Goods 

For all kinds of Bread, Rolls, Buns, Sweet Yeast Dough Goods, and 
Doughnuts, use 7 to 9 ounces of Merrell-Soule Powdered Skimmed 
Milk to each gallon of water, or, if figuring by weight of flour, use 3 
to 4 per cent., or 6 to 8 pounds per barrel of flour. 

Yeast doughs containing these amounts of milk, worked on a short 
and quick system will get a bloom with a rich crumb color and even 
texture, not obtainable through the use of any other method or ingre- 
dient. The crust will be thin and fine and the flavor most appetizing. 



22 Merrell-Soule Products 

The effect of adding milk to bread, in place of water is, other things 
being equal, to increase its nutriment. 

The analyses previously given represent the composition of milk. 
The casein and albumen are the nitrogenous constituents of the milk, 
and may be regarded as flesh-formers. The fat consists of stearine 
and other constituents which give to butter its characteristic flavor. 
Milk sugar, or lactose, is the carbo-hydrate present in milk powder and 
is inverted by the action of the invertase, as supplied by yeast turned 
into galactose, a substance which is non-fermentable and, as a conse- 
quence, is not lost by being expelled as carbon dioxide, but is retained 
and helps to make up the additional weight in baked goods which 
results from the use of milk. The ash consists chiefly of phosphate of 
lime and potash, which act as a solvent on wheat gluten and very ma- 
terially improve the constitution of the water used in yeast doughs, 
which is a very important feature in producing a first-class loaf of 
bread. 

Taking as a maximum quantity 8 pounds of Powdered Milk per 
barrel of flour, and as a minimum quantity 5 pounds, the initial cost 
of the dough would be higher, with the use of the Powdered Milk, but 
it must be taken into account that the added solids make a larger out- 
put per barrel, because when milk is used the dough must be made 
softer on account of the binding effect of the milk. This requires a 
great additional quantity of water, which is not lost because of the 
moisture-retaining powers of the Powdered Milk during fermentation 
and baking, and is returned as yield great enough to take care of the 
higher first cost mentioned. The amount of milk between these maxi- 
mum and minimum figures therefore is of no additional cost to the 
baker and he is given free a better flavored loaf of high dietetic value, 
improved in texture, color and physical properties of the crumb. 

It may be of interest to add here that for giving additional quality, 
Merrell-Soule No. 25 Butterfat Powder may be employed as a milk 
ingredient capable of furnishing whole milk standardized to 3.5 per 



Merrell-Soule Products 



23 



cent, butterfat. This percentage of fat present makes a most notice- 
able effect on the fineness of texture and color of crumb. The butterfat 
makes fineness of texture and thin crust, while the milk solids result in 
better bloom, owing to the unfermentable sugar of milk. This is left 
to caramelize during the process of baking, furnishing the distinctive 
characteristic appearance of the milk loaf. 

Milk Bread 



Of course, Powdered Skimmed Milk, used in connection with lard 
or vegetable fat, will make nearly as good quality as when No. 25 
butterfat powder is used, but lard or vegetable fats only affect the 
texture and shortness, and even fresh butter added as a fat does not 
give that mild flavor imparted when whole milk made from No. 25 
butterfat powder is used. 

It may be that some of the bread sold as "milk bread" contains no 
milk, but most bakers are conscientious, and use a most liberal quantity 
of milk, the result being that they produce a beautiful and honest loaf. 
As there is no stipulated quantity of milk that should be used in bread 
known as "milk bread," the quality of many brands put out under that 
label is not high. 

Brown bread, which is made with a great percentage of cereals, may 
set up irritation in the stomach, but never when made with skimmed 
milk representing the equivalent of 50 per cent, of the liquid require- 
ments of the mix. 

It may be true that there is no recognized standard or shape for 
milk bread, but we think it high time for all progressive manufacturers 
to use at least the minimum amount of 2^^ per cent. Powdered Milk in 
producing a standard loaf of bread. This amount increases the dietetic 
value of the bread and produces a commodity with changed properties, 
yielding nourishment in a new and concentrated form, and a quality 
hard for the housewife to rival. 




X 




24 Merrell-Soule Products 

It is our purpose to emphasize the value of milk in bread making, 
and the advantages that are to be derived from bread made with milk. 

Bread Formulas 

We contend that there is no fixed bread formula. What we call 
a bread formula is merely a combination of ingredients proportioned 
to suit the conditions under which the baker is working. There are 
many books full of bread formulas, each a little different from the 
other, and all striving to obtain the quality so much sought after. A 
fixed bread formula is impossible, as all bakers are working under 
different conditions of climate, temperature, manner of handling and 
shop conditions. In order to bring out an individual product, you 
must arrive at a standard character for your loaf. This special char- 
acter and individuality so desired is produced by the addition of carbo- 
hydrates in the form of milk sugar and fat, added to the vital ingredi- 
ents in bread making — flour, water, yeast and salt. 

Milk, as we have seen, produces individual and distinctive 
excellence. 

Calculating a Bread Formula 

We consider, from experience, the best way to arrive at a bread 
formula is to figure the amount of pounds in baked bread required 
for a given order. Multiply this number of pounds by 18 ounces, 
which will represent the weight of the dough. To produce this amount 
of dough, divide its weight by the total percentage of ingredients to 
be used in making up this weight of dough. This will give the amount 
of flour to be used for this batch. 

The most important point in arriving at a correctly composed 
formula is to know the absorptive power of your flour and the quality 
of your local water supply. 

The amount of flour (or cereal substitutes) to be used in calculat- 
ing a formula in this manner, represents 100 per cent., and taking for 



Merrell-Soule Products 25 

granted, in this instance, that the absorption of the flour with the aid 

of the maximum amount of 4 per cent. Powdered Milk would be 60 

per cent, water, we would consequently, in making up our percentage, 

figure as follows: 

Per Cent. 

100 Flour and Cereals 

60 Water 

2 Yeast 

1.75 Salt 

4 Milk Powder 

1 Malt 

1 Fat 



Total 169.75% 

This total, 169.75 per cent., is used to divide the weight of dough 
required. We will say, for example, we want to make 1000 one-pound 
loaves, which is equal to 1125 pounds of dough. We divide 1125 
pounds by 169.75 per cent, which gives the quotient of 662 and repre- 
sents the weight of the flour and cereal. This figure, 662, is then 
multiplied in rotation by all the per cent, figures of ingredients as given 
above. Starting with the percentage of water, it gives us in this in- 
stance 662 X 60 = 397, which figure represents the weight of the water. 
Next we multiply 662 by the percentage of yeast to be used, which 
would be in this instance 13 pounds, and the weight of other ingredi- 
ents would be arrived at in rotation, as follows : 

1125.000-^169.75% 
169.75%) 1125.000lbs. dough = 662 lbs. flour and cereal 



662 X .60 = 397 


' water 


662 X. 02= 13 
111 
2Sl 

6i 


' j'east 

' salt 

' milk powder 

' malt 

' fat 



Total 1,123 lbs. dough 

Dusting flour will take care of decimals, which were dropped in 
arriving at the weight of the different ingredients and take care of 
amount lost during fermentation. 

For calculation of sponge doughs, the baker can take from 50 to 70 
per cent, of the flour in the sponge, use 54 to 63 per cent, water, ac- 



26 Merrell-Soule Products 

cording to the kind of sponge he wants to make, the bulk of which 
is afterwards calculated off the percentage representing average absorp- 
tion, when figuring water to be used in dough. 

Method of Handling Doughs During 
Fermentation 

Having found the correct weights of your ingredients, the next 
most important thing is the method of mixing, and the conditions that 
affect correct fermentation. 

In mixing doughs, it is best to dissolve the Powdered Milk in part 
of the quantity of water to be used, before adding to the batch. Many 
bakers have sifted the Powdered Milk in with the flour, losing sight 
of the fact that there is generally not sufficient moisture left, when 
flour comes in contact with water, to properly dissolve the Powdered 
Milk. It requires a great deal more water and a little more time to 
put Powdered Milk in proper solution than it takes to dough up flour 
and water. 

In bread making, or preparing other yeast doughs, if Powdered 
Milk is not dissolved separately, there is great danger that some of it 
will remain in the dough in its dry state and be baked in that way, 
with the result that part of its effect is lost. Besides, to add Powdered 
Milk undissolved in bread or other yeast doughs would be to defeat 
one of the economic reasons for its addition — that of absorbing and 
holding moisture. 

Doughs with milk, to obtain best results, should be worked on a 
short, quick system. Temperature, however, should be maintained as 
far as possible between 80 and 82 degrees F. Of course the natural 
composition of the water has a great deal to do with the length of time 
required to mellow the gluten and age the dough, and for this reason 
the baker will find it necessary to modify his methods in order to get 
uniform results. A wide variance in texture or grain in bread, from 
day to day or from batch to batch, produced under seemingly the same 



a. 



::: a. 



^ 



"n 



tJ s 



^ 





A Good Baking Test, sliozi'iiu/ the Life of the Milk Pou'der 



Make a thick batter of milk powder with water, place on a tin and 
bake in a hot oven. A live milk powder will puff up, retaining the 
moisture, while a dead milk powder will not retain the moisture. Note 
the difference as shown in the cut. 



Merrell-Soule Products 27 

conditions with the same ingredients, is not to be denied. There are 
several causes, any one of which will account for the difference be- 
tween good and poor texture. When a baker has arrived at what is 
considered a well balanced formula, he should be on the alert to avoid 
the following: 

(1) Improper fermentation. 

(2) Improper handling or preparation of the dough previous to 
making into loaves. 

(3) Over-proofing before baking. 

(4) Ovens too hot or too cold. 

The baker should watch his fermentation most carefully, as the 
time between under and over-fermentation is not long, and depends 
entirely upon his judgment. 

Taking up the second cause of poor texture, that of improper 
handling of the dough before making into loaves, we might say it is 
impossible to make bread of a fine texture, or grain, without a certain 
amount of manipulation of the dough during the process of fermenta- 
tion. If the baker is lazy in "punching" his dough at the right time 
or in "cutting over," or in properly rounding or molding, he cannot 
expect to turn out the same loaf that the careful competitor produces. 

Over-proofing of the dough before baking is to be avoided. Bread 
containing a sufficient quantity of milk, backed up with a goodly amount 
of yeast, will spring in the oven, thus holding its cubic yield, while 
over-proofed bread will shrink, fall back and produce open texture 
with inclination to be dry and crumbling. 

Improper heat of the oven is also a drawback to good bread. If 
the oven is too hot, causing the bread to crust before the loaf has had 
time to become heated through, the result will be poor grain or texture, 
as the gases within the loaf are imprisoned by the crust already formed. 
As these gases become more heated, they will eventually follow along 
the line of least resistance and break through the loaf at its weakest 
point of crust already formed. This causes the loaf to be ill-shaped 



28 Merrell-Soule Products 

and drawn, uneven and furrowed. Again if the oven is too cold, the 
loaf is too slowly heated to stop the action of fermentation in time, 
and the result is the same as that of over-proofing. 

This discussion of the manufacture of bread, while not as lengthy 
as those gone into in technical books, is nevertheless of great benefit if 
the suggestions contained are followed by the reader. They will keep 
him out of trouble and lead him to produce, with little experimenting, 
superior bread and yeast dough goods of distinction. And he will find, 
if he is making poor bread, that the blame lies not with the Powdered 
Milk. 

The fact that every baker we have known, who has adopted 
Merrell-Soule Powdered Milk as an ingredient in his bread, has in- 
creased his business seems to us to prove that milk bread is what the 
public wants, that the baker is producing a better loaf of bread than 
the housewife, and is getting her business. 

Test to Establish Amount of Increased Yields 
in Pounds of Dough 

Bread With 2>4% Milk Solids vs. Bread Without Milk 

The test below was made at one of the largest baking establishments 
in the United States and was certified to as correct by the manager of 
this bakery. Test made January, 1919. 

Formula 

Control (without milk) Test (Milk Bread) 

Water 300 lbs. 300 lbs. 

Flour .500 " 500 " 

Yeast 7.5 " 7.5 " 

Yeast Powder 2.5 " 2.5 " 

Fat 7.5 " 7.5 " 

Malt 5.0 " 6.0 " 

Sugar 10.0 " 4.0 " 

Salt 10.0 " 10.0 " 

Merrell-Soule Skimmed Milk Powder.." 0.0" 13.0 || 

Extra water for dissolving milk powder 26.0 

Total weight 842.5 lbs. dough 875.5 lbs. dough 



Merrell-Soule Products 



29 



YIELD 

Control Batch Milk Bread 

Loaves scaled 18 ozs. in dough 749 776 

Loaves scaled as per test 747 791 

POSSIBLE YIELD 

(If scaled 18 ozs.) $62.08 Milk Bread 

59.92 Bread without Milk 

$ 2.16 Gain in return 

YIELD AS PER TEST 

$63.28 Milk Bread 
59.76 Bread without Milk 

$ 3.52 Gain in return from Milk Bread 

COST COMPARISON 

Control (without milk) Milk Bread 

Credit 6 lbs. sugar used at 9^c = 57c Additional Cost 

1 lb. Malt Extract at 8i/<c = $ .085 

13 lbs. Merrell-Soule Skimmed Milk Powder at 25c = 3.25 

$3,335 
Credit sugar saved .57 

Total cost increase on batch 500 lbs. flour made with 2]/2% milk solids $2,765 
A'ormal yield extra bread sold at 8c per pound 2.16 

Total cost increase on batch of 500 lbs. flour $ .605 



Sweet Yeast Dough Goods 

The amount of Merrell-Soule Powdered Skimmed Milk or No. 25 
butterfat powder to be used commonly runs from 7 to 9 ounces to each 
gallon of water used in the batch, but is always purely a question of 
quality. In times when eggs and butter are scarce or dear, an increased 
quantity of Powdered Milk in the batch will make up for considerable 
decrease in the other ingredients, without materially reducing the 
quality or nourishing value of the finished product. 

This really is such a broad subject that to treat it exhaustively 
would require more space than is available in this book. Therefore 
we shall deal but briefly with goods of this class that are generally 
known and profitable. 

r 



^ 




30 Merrell-Soule Products 



Arriving at a Sweet Yeast Dough Formula 

Recipes for coffee cake doughs vary but little. But every baker 
who would profit by his individuality must have a pet method of his 
own, whereby the material is put together. We shall try to answer 
the question as to what method tends to bring out the best results from 
material at hand. 

Many bakers seem to think that all that is necessary in putting a 
batch of sweet yeast dough together is to place the material in a bowl, 
dissolve the yeast, stir, and add the flour. This is very simple, but not 
effective. 

There are quite a few bakers who adhere to a sponge method in 
this class of goods and for quick doughs. We agree that this means 
a big saving in the amount of yeast necessary. Apart from this, how- 
ever, there is nothing really commendable about a method of this kind. 

It seems certain that very few bakers would think of putting even 
the cheapest kind of a cake together without first creaming the butter 
and sugar and working in the eggs slowly, thereby lightening the 
materials by the creation of air cells. But there are very few of these 
same bakers who realize that this method, applied to the preparation 
of sweet doughs, has the same effect, and gives a more thorough and 
even distribution of materials while the dough is in the process of 
fermentation. For a sweet yeast dough for general purposes the fol- 
lowing is a good formula : 

12 oz. Merrell-Soule Powdered Skimmed or Whole Milk 
12 oz. Fat mixed with butter 
12 oz. Sugar 
6 oz. Yeast 
4 Eggs 
Yz oz. Salt 
2 qt. Water 75 to 85 degrees F. 

Little Mace and Lemon Oil (or any other flavor desired) 
Flour to make medium stiff dough 

Undoubtedly the best method that we have found for embodying 
these materials into sweet yeast dough is the following : 

First dissolve separately the yeast in a little warm water and add 



Merrell-Soule Products 31 



a little sugar and flour. Now place in the bowl or mixer the eggs, 
sugar, spices and milk. Blend these together, add the remainder of 
the water and make into a medium soft dough with flour. When the 
dough is thoroughly smooth add the butter, which has been creamed 
a little on the bench. Incorporate this thoroughly into the dough, then 
add the yeast, which will by this time have quite a start, and work 
through the dough just to "clear". This dough, as all milk doughs, 
if kept "young" up to the time of making up and panning, then given 
full proof before going into the oven, will result in greater bulk in 
proportion to the weight of the dough, than dough made by any other 
method. 

Almost every baker is familiar with the general run of goods 
usually manufactured from sweet yeast dough, such as coffee cake 
goods, snails, pretzels, stollen, streusel, etc., by adding fruit or rolling 
in additional butter, sprinkling with crumbs or nuts or finishing off 
with fresh or canned fruits, thereby expressing the baker's individuality 
and peculiar style. 



Powdered Buttermilk 

Uses and Value in Baking 

THE value of Buttermilk as a health food has long been recognized. 
Liquid buttermilk has been in use in the manufacture of soda 
goods, such as soda biscuits, Irish soda bread, buckwheat cakes, the 
various griddle cakes, and in molasses and spiced goods. Some bread 
makers, also, have used liquid buttermilk. 

Merrell-Soule Powdered Buttermilk offers buttermilk in the dry, 
powdered form and its remarkable food value, along with its excellent 
baking properties, speedily recommended it for commercial uses, especi- 
ally in bread making. Communications from all parts of the country 
tell of excellent results being obtained from Merrell-Soule Powdered 
Buttermilk. These come principally from bread and cracker bakers. 

Merrell-Soule Powdered Buttermilk offers one of nature's most 
valuable foods, and with the knowledge that it has always been 
esteemed as an ingredient in yeast doughs and soda leavened goods, 
we find the following interesting difference. 

Take every one of the good points, except the higher butterfat 
content of our No. 25 butterfat powder, enumerated in the preceding 
pages, add to them the following facts, and you have the advantages 
obtainable from Alerrell-Soule Powdered Buttermilk. Our analysis 
shows it similar to skimmed milk in composition (except that it is 
higher in butterfat) and possessed of acidity, both valuable assets. 

Its Lactic Acid Content and Value of 
Lactic Acid 

The softening of the gluten (the most important result of fermenta- 
tion), due to the large per cent, of lactic acid contained in the powdered 
buttermilk, will incur a considerable saving of time and produce a 
livelier and more healthy fermentation, relieving any strain on the yeast 
and reserving the yeast functions to produce that desirable "spring" 
in the oven, which every baker is so anxious to get. 



Merrell-Soule Products 



33 



This quantity of lactic acid is also of immense value to all bakers, 
in that it will positively prevent the occurrence of "rope," the most 
dreaded disease of the bakery. Rope bacilli cannot exist in the pres- 
ence of a small quantity of lactic acid in the dough. 

Let this be noted — that vinegar, acetic acid and commercial acid 
compounds are used for and will prevent rope. But that is the only 
excuse they have for being in the dough. They destroy the bloom of 
the bread, make poor texture, and do not increase the yield. Instead 
of that, they raise the price of the moisture content of your loaf. Their 
use is full of danger. 

The lactic acid in buttermilk will make any excessive amount of 
starch more palatable and consequently more digestible. It will also 
give you a whiter crumb, on account of its bleaching qualities. 

Butterfat Contained in Powdered Buttermilk 

Butterfat is the highest quality of shortening available. Since the 
powdered buttermilk contains from 8 to 10 per cent, fat, the baker will 
either enjoy a considerable saving in other fats or else he will produce 
better quality. On a preceding page, in speaking of "Butterfat 
Powder," we have explained that butterfat is composed of stearine and 
other constituents which give to butter its characteristic flavor. This 
flavor, because of the large per cent, of butterfat contained in Powdered 
Buttermilk, is transferred to the doughs containing this powder, and 
explains why it is so desirable. 

It is well to realize that 10 per cent, butterfat means about 12 pounds 
of creamery butter to every 100 pounds of Powdered Buttermilk in 
your barrel. 

Other Good Points 

The dry state of Powdered Buttermilk eliminates the "sloppy" con- 
ditions usually found in bakeries where liquid milk is used, drawing 
flies and vermin. 



Buttermilk 







34 Merrell-Soule Products 

Its keeping qualities are excellent and it can be stored in a dry cool 
place almost indefinitely. 

All the advantages of our other milk products, such as Economy, 
Supply, Cleanliness and Convenience also pertain to Merrell-Soule 
Powdered Buttermilk. 

Directions for Use 

We recommend the use of Merrell-Soule Powdered Buttermilk for 
goods raised with yeast or bicarbonate of soda only, as in baking powder 
goods the lactic acid content of this powder will have to be taken into 
consideration both as to strength and volume. The cream tartar, phos- 
phate or other acid content of the baking powder mix will have to be 
cut down in proportion, or the soda content increased. 

In yeast dough goods an ounce to a quart of water, or 2 per cent. 
if figured by the weight of flour used, would give us 4 pounds to the 
barrel, which is the minimum that ought to be employed. 2y2 per cent., 
or 5 pounds to the barrel is, on account of the lactic acid content, the 
maximum amount that should be used. It should be thoroughly dis- 
solved in water before being added to the dough. 

Many bakers who wish to produce a quality loaf are using an 
additional quantity of Merrell-Soule Powdered Skimmed Milk with 
the maximum allowance of 2^^ per cent. Powdered Buttermilk. 

Stir the powder in the buttermilk barrel every time you take out a 
quantity. This keeps it from caking. 

Buttermilk Bread 

Formulas for this class of goods can easily be worked out, using a 
schedule as previously explained. 

There is no shop trouble with Powdered Buttermilk, and the fer- 
mentation in the doughs, although a little speedier, will not present 
any problems or necessitate any considerable change in methods. 



Merrell-Soule Products 



35 



The word "Buttermilk" has great advertising value. Buttermilk 
bread, buns and doughnuts should immediately become popular in 
localities where they are introduced. Merrell-Soule Company will be 
glad to furnish display cards with advertising suggestions to purchasers 
of this product. 




IffiCElVING MILK AT j 
A MEIKELL-JOULE 
FACTOR.Y ... * J 




Rope: Its Formation and Habits 

WHILE we have made passing mention of Rope, in the pages 
devoted to Powdered Buttermilk, we feel that the importance 
of this most dreaded plague of the bakery demands further attention. 
Besides, although bakery trade papers, experts and lecturers have given 
their attention to the subject, and the United States Government has 
issued printed directions for eliminating the trouble, there still remains 
much to be said of practical value to the average baker. 

Origin of Rope 

Rope in bread is the second life cycle of a spore originating from 
bacilli that come, in the first place, direct from the soil, being blown 
up in the dust which settles upon the ripening ears of grain. Many 
of them adhere to the outside of the grain-berry and get transferred 
into the flour with particles of bran. They are supported by the 
enzymes or ferments which are found in the nitrogenous underlayers 
of seed skin and in the embryos or seed germs. Potatoes have been 
credited with being associated with the rope producing germ on account 
of growing in the ground. However there is no scientific proof of this 
identity except such as may be based on microscopic appearance. There 
are many other conjectures equally unproved. The next important 
source of origin is through infection by dust, sweepings or dirt con- 
taining spores which may have remained dormant from some previous 
epidemic. 

Its Development 

Ropiness seldom develops, so far as can be judged by the naked 
eye, during the first eight hours after the loaf has been baked. But in 
the event of bacilli being sufficiently abundant in the original dough, 
and the surrounding conditions being favorable to their growth and 
multiplication, it will become obnoxiously evident within the succeeding 
eight hours, and will then mature rapidly and prove highly objection- 
able. The center of the loaf will break down, when the rope has run 
a fairly long course, and the crumb not consumed by decomposition 



Merrell-Soule Products 37 



can be rubbed into a molasses-like mass, which when pulled apart will 
disclose long strings of slime. Hence the name rope. 

Heat Does Not Destroy These Germs 

Even the strongest and longest heat of an oven does not destroy 
this germ. The spores possess an exceptional vitality, and after a 
baked loaf has been laid aside, the bacilli germinate and yield a new 
generation, which starts the life cycle on its way again. 

Acidity Affects Them 

A certain amount of acidity in this dough is destructive to the 
germ. It is therefore well that the baker make his dough slightly acid. 
Soured milk or lactic acid is the most desirable medium, and one ounce 
of Merrell-Soule Powdered Buttermilk to each quart of water used in 
yeast doughs is sufficient to check the power of any organism which 
may be present. Commercial acids and vinegar produce the same re- 
sults, but on account of their strength they are dangerous to the bloom 
of the loaf and color of the crumb, and the baker will more wisely use 
milk, which has always been one of the ingredients of bakery products. 

Methods of Elimination 

If ropiness establishes itself in a bakery, it is extremely difficult to 
eradicate. For this reason bakers should vigilantly guard against it 
by making their doughs slightly acid, keeping their shops well ventilated, 
using the sponge system as much as practicable, and keeping their flour 
and cereals away from damp places, stacked so that air can circulate 
well around the bags and barrels. 

A commercial acid, such as vinegar or compounds made for the 
purpose, should be used to spray or wash all utensils, machines, floors 
and walls of the bakery, not overlooking the packing room, store, 
delivery and shipping equipment. The Merrell-Soule Technical Ser- 
vice Department will be glad to furnish information to any baker who 
has this trouble, designed to help his specific case. 



Use of Merrell-Soule Products 
in Cake Baking 

IT is not our purpose to present an exhaustive treatise on modern 
practical cake baking in this chapter. We merely desire to give 
some valuable, yet simple, up-to-date recipes showing the advantages 
of using Merrell-Soule Powdered Milk in cake baking, that will enable 
the beginner, as well as the expert baker, to turn out high class cake 
goods at a comparatively low cost. 

All recipes contain Merrell-Soule Powdered Skimmed Milk, to be 
mixed in its dry state, or restored to liquid milk, as directed. 

For Cakes in General 

Successful cake bakers have long realized the benefit of using an 
entirely soluble powdered milk. Most bakers who have been induced 
to buy cheap milk powders have had sad experiences on account of 
the insolubility of these powders. This is the main reason why Merrell- 
Soule Powdered Milk is so uniformly used in the shops of successful 
representative bakers throughout the country. They have long since 
found out that their ability to obtain a readily soluble milk powder 
renders liquid fresh milk no longer necessary in the making of quality 
baked goods, for Merrell-Soule Powdered Milk will do everything that 
fresh cows' milk will do, at less cost and trouble. 

Cake Receipes 

In presenting the following recipes, we wish to say that they have 
been thoroughly tried and proved, constitute an excellent selection of 
medium priced commercial baked goods, and are so arranged that they 
can be easily referred to at any time. Let us give this advice, first of 
all — don't guess at quantities. Measure and weigh all ingredients 
carefully. 

Ingredients used in these recipes can be substituted by the use of 
powdered egg, dissolved at the rate of one pound in three pints of 



Merrell-Soule Products 



39 



water, which is equivalent to 3^ dozen shell eggs. Use the same 
quantity of dissolved egg as you would shell eggs. For instance, if 
your recipe calls for one pint of egg or ten shell eggs, use one pint of 
dissolved egg powder. 

It has been proven that cereal flours, such as corn flour, rice flour, 
corn starch and tapioca flour can be used with excellent results. Rice 
flour and corn starch are preferred. When these are used, it is best 
to add them when creaming the sugar and shortening. This will show 
quite an improvement in the appearance of the grain in the cake. 



Common Cakes and Quick Breads 
Milk Biscuits 

6 lb. Flour 

1 lb. Lard 

4i oz. Baking Powder 

Salt 
8 oz. Merrell-Soule Skimmed Milk Powder dissolved in 
2i quarts water 

Sift flour and baking powder in a bowl, add salt and lard, rub 
between the hands until fine, then add milk powder dissolved in water. 
Mix thoroughly and throw out on bench well dusted with flour, pin out 
about }i. inch in thickness and cut with biscuit cutter. Place on a pan 
so they will touch. Bake in a brisk oven. 

Cup Cakes No. 1 

2 lb. Sugar 

Ij lb. Butter and Lard 

10 Eggs 

4 oz. Merrell-Soule Powdered Skimmed Milk 

4 lb. Flour 

2 oz. Cream Tartar 
1 oz. Soda 

1 qt. Water 

Lemon and Mace Flavor 

Cup Cakes No. 2 

I2 lb. Sugar 
12 oz. Butter 

I pt. Egg Whites 
4 oz. Merrell-Soule Powdered Skimmed Milk 

3 lb. Flour 

2 oz. Baking Powder 

Vanilla Flavor 




40 Merrell-Soule Products 



Rub sugar, butter and Powdered Milk together until light, adding 
a few eggs at a time. Sieve in cream tartar and flour, make bay and 
pour in soda dissolved in water. Mix and drop in cup cake tins. When 
a recipe says baking powder, as No. 2, always sieve powder in the flour. 

Spice Cups 

1 pt. Molasses 
6 oz. Sugar 

6 oz. Lard 

2 oz. Merrell-Soule Powdered Buttermilk dissolved in 
1 pt. Water 

1 oz. Soda 

2 lb. Flour 

Spices 
Rub sugar, lard and soda in bowl, stir in molasses, add spice, cinna- 
mon, ginger and cloves, half teaspoon each, add buttermilk powder 
dissolved in water, mix in flour. Drop in tins and bake in brisk oven. 

Corn Bread 

2 lb. Corn Meal 
1 lb. Wheat Flour 

1 lb. Butter or Fat 

2 lb. Sugar 
i oz. Salt 

6 Eggs 

4 oz. Merrell-Soule Powdered Skimmed Milk dissolved in 

1 qt. Water 

22 oz. Baking Powder 

Sieve corn meal, flour and baking powder in a bowl, add salt and 

sugar, stir beaten tgg into dissolved Powdered Milk and water, pour 

into dry ingredients. Mix. If this does not make a good batter, add 

a little water. Now stir in melted butter. Pour in greased baking 

sheet and bake in medium oven. 

Corn Muffins 

Use corn bread mixture, drop in cup cake tins, and bake in a brisk oven. 

Fried Cakes 

li lb. Sugar 

4 oz. Butter 

4 Eggs 

3i oz. Merrell-Soule Powdered Skimmed Milk dissolved in 

3i lb. Flour 

1 qt. Water 

2 oz. Baking Powder 

Mace 
Salt 




Cuf^-Cakcs 




Milk Biscuits 






il'^^iSSi^^' "^''^'^"^'^^^^^^^^^ 




^ 



Q 



I 

















U 



'4= 



•i'lfivriri-irriii' 



Merrell-Soule Products 41 



Mix sugar, butter, mace and eggs, add milk, then flour and baking 
powder sifted together. Mix these together and work them off same 
as doughnuts. If a doughnut machine is used for dropping them in 
the grease, make the mixture a little slacker by using a little more milk. 

Jelly Roll (Bowl Mix) 

11 oz. Sugar 
2 oz. Butter 

2 oz. Merrell-Soule Powdered Skimmed Milk 

dissolved in 
2 pt. Water 
7 Eggs 

1 lb. 2 oz. Flour 

11 oz. Baking Powder 
Lemon 

Rub sugar and butter, add eggs a few at a time, when well creamed 

up sift on flour and baking powder, make bay and pour in dissolved 

Powdered Milk and lemon flavor. Line baking sheet with paper, and 

pour on the mix. Bake in a brisk oven. When baked turn upside 

down on a cloth or paper the size of the pan. Wet the paper and 

remove. Spread with jelly or any other filling and roll. 

Graham Muffins 

1 lb. Sugar, a little molasses 

1 lb. Lard, little salt 

6 Eggs 

Zi oz. Merrell-Soule Powdered Milk 

dissolved in 
1 qt. Water 

3 lb. Graham Flour 

1 lb. Wheat Flour 

3 oz. Baking Powder 

Rub sugar, lard, molasses, salt and eggs, add some of the Powdered 
Milk dissolved in water, then flour and baking powder, finally add 
enough milk to make a medium stiff batter, drop in cup cake tins and 
bake in brisk oven. 

Strawberry Shortcake 

2 lb. Flour 
6 oz. Butter 

2 oz. Baking Powder 

2 oz. Merrell-Soule Powdered Skimmed Milk 

dissolved in 
1 pt. Water 

4 oz. Sugar 

Salt 



42 Merrell-Soule Products 

Handle like mix for fruit biscuits. Roll, cut and bake in layer 
cake pans, or if used for individuals, cut out with biscuit cutter. 

Sweet Doughs for Coffee Cakes, Hot Cross 

Buns, Etc. 

Sweet Dough for Coffee Cake 



In 


8 qt. 


Water 110 


Dissolve 


1 lb. 


Yeast 




4 oz. 


Salt 




2 lb. 


Butter 




2 lb. 


Lard 




3 lb. 


Bread Sugar 


Then add 


1 qt. 


Eggs 




1 lb. 


Merrell-Soule Powdered Skimmed Milk 




Idz. 


Lemons, rind and juice 



Method : Mix all well and add bread flour mixture to make a very 
stiff dough. Set the proof and knock down twice before it is ready 
for use. 

Hot Cross Buns 
Make a straight dough : 

10 qt. Water 

2 lb. Merrell-Soule Powdered Skimmed Milk 
35 lb. Sugar 

12 oz. Yeast 

3 lb. Butter Substitute 

2 lb. Compound Lard 
6 oz. Salt 

5 pt. Eggs 

Juice and Rind of 4 lemons 
Elour to make stiff dough 

3 lb. Small Raisins 

Place the buns close together on tins and wash with eggs. After 
they are raised half way, split them with a sharp knife, then finish 
raising with a little steam. When baked, ice with ordinary icing or 
dust with sugar. 

In arriving at a wet dough formula for coffee cake goods, see 
page 30. 



Merrell-Soule Products 43 

Sheet, Layer, Wine and Loaf cake Mixes 

Sheet Cakes 

Cake Base for all varieties for Slices, Squares or Pyramids. 

\h lb. Sugar 

8 oz. Lard 

6 Eggs 

3 oz. Merrell-Soule Powdered Skimmed Milk 

dissolved in 
Upt. Water 
I2 oz. Baking Powder 
2ilb. Flour 

Lemon Flavor 

Salt 

Rub sugar, lard and eggs, sift on flour and baking powder, add 
milk dissolved in water and mix. Bake in greased and floured sheets. 
When cool, cut in any shape desired, after setting together with icing, 
cream or jelly. 

Spice Sheet 

I lb. Brown Sugar 
6 oz. Lard 

6 Eggs 

3 oz. Merrell-Soule Powdered Skimmed Milk 

dissolved in 
ISpt. Water 
12 oz. Baking Powder 

Nutmeg 

Allspice 

Cinnamon and a little melted chocolate 
2ilb. Flour 

Mix and use as preceding formula. 

Ribbon Sheet 

II lb. Sugar 
6 oz. Lard 
3 Eggs 

3i oz. Merrell-Soule Powdered Skimmed Milk 
dissolved in 

1 qt. Water 

2 oz. Baking Powder 
2lVa. Flour 

Lemon 

Mix same as other sheet cakes. Divide dough in three parts, leave 
one natural color the second red with a little strawberry color and 



44 Merrell-Soule Products 



make the third chocolate color, using a little melted chocolate. Put 
alternately on greased and dusted pan, or bake each color separate in 
paper lined pans. 

Cheap Sheet Cake 

2 lb. Sugar 
12 oz. Lard 
2 Eggs 

4 oz. Merrell-Soule Powdered Skimmed Milk 
1 qt. Water 
3Jlb. Flour 
2h oz. Baking Powder 
Salt 
Flavor 

Mix same as preceding formulas. Put on greased and floured 
sheet and spread. Ice top with cold water icing or cut up in any shape 
desired. 

Layer Cakes 

Mixture for Large Layer Cakes : 



Rub well together 


8 oz. 


Powdered Sugar 




6 oz. 


Merrell-Soule Powdered Skimmed Milk 




i oz. 


Salt 




12 oz. 


Lard 




12 oz. 


Butter 


and 




a little vanilla 


Then add 


1 pt. 


Yolks 




1 pt. 


Mixed Eggs 




1 qt. 


Water 


Then sift together 






and add 


4Jlb. 


Flour (spring) 




1 lb. 


Substitute (starch) 




lilb. 


Powdered Sugar 



12 oz. Baking Powder 

Method: Mix thoroughly into a medium soft batter, then scale 
into layer tins. 

Spread out flat and bake in medium oven. This batch makes about 
35 layers. 

Wine Cake 

Cream well 3 lb. Powdered Sugar 

1 oz. Soda 

2 oz. Salt 

8 oz. Merrell-Soule Powdered Skimmed Milk 

13 lb. Compound Lard 
Then add gradually I2 pt. Eggs 

Then 2 qt. Water 

Sift and then add 6 lb. Bread Flour 
2 oz. Cream Tartar 



Merrell-Soule Products 45 



Method : Mix well and bake in paper lined tins. Cut on top with 
a knife dipped in oil, before baking, this will produce a nice "split". 



Merrell-Soule Golden Anniversary Cake 




(Commercial Pound Cake Mix) 


Rub well until light 


15 lb. Powdered Sugar 




1 lb. Flour 




1 lb. Merrell-Soule Powdered Skimmed Milk 




Jib. Salt 




J lb. Butter Flavor 




6 lb. Compound Lard 




2J lb. Margarine or Butter 




apt. Vanilla 




Little Egg Coloring 


Then add slowly 


10 pt. Eggs 


Then 


5 pt. Cold Water 


Then sift together 




and mix in 


16 lb. Flour 



1 lb. Powdered Sugar 
Beat this mixture until very light and smooth, and then fill in paper 
lined tins. 

Silver Cake 

Cream well 2 lb. Powdered Sugar 

J oz. Salt 
5 oz. Merrell-Soule Powdered Skimmed Milk 
4 oz. Butter Flavor 
1 lb. Compound Lard 

Vanilla or Almond Extract 
Then add gradually 2h lb. Bread Flour 

1 qt. Stifif Beaten Egg Whites 
1 qt. Water 

1 oz. Baking Powder 

Beat up well and fill in paper lined tins. Sprinkle powdered or 
granulated sugar on top and bake in good oven. 

Water Sponge Cake 

(With Powdered Milk) 
Beat 2 lb. Powdered Sugar 

2 pt. Yolks 

1 pt. Hot Water 

A little Vanilla 
Then add carefully 2 lb. 10 oz. Bread Flour 

4 oz. Powdered Skimmed Milk 
J oz. Baking Powder 
i oz. Salt 

Bake in paper lined tins. 



46 



Merrell-Soule Products 



Cookies, Jumbles, Snaps, Drop Cakes and 
Fancy Cakes 

Cookie Dough No. 1 



Cream well 



Then add slowly 
Then sift on 

Make bay and 
pour in 



11 lb. Butter 

Ulb. Lard 

5 lb. Powdered Sugar 

2 oz. Soda 

4 oz. Merrell-Soule Powdered Skimmed Milk 

1 pt. Eggs 

8Jlb. Flour 

3 oz. Cream Tartar 



1 qt. Water 

Cookie Dough No. 2 

Mix the same as Cookie Dough No. 1. 

7 lb. Sugar 

2 lb. Butter 
lllb. Lard 

i pt. Eggs 
2 oz. Ammonia 

2 lb. Merrell-Soule Powdered Skimmed Milk 
21 qt. Water 

A little Egg Coloring and Flavor 
Then 14 lb. Flour 

Out of these two cookie doughs you can make (See illustrations 
opposite page 41.) 

Sugar Cookies Almond Cookies 

Cocoanut Cookies Peanut Cookies 

Seed Cookies Spice, Nut or Raisin Cookies 

(Note: For Fruit Cookies, etc., see recipes under the heading of "Con- 
fectioners Mince.") 

Vanilla Jumbles 

Powdered Sugar 



Cream, well 



Then add slowly 
Sift on 

Then make bay 
and pour in 



3 lb. 

li lb. Lard or Butter 
I oz. Soda 

A little Vanilla 
1 oz. Salt 

1 pt. Eggs or Yolks 
511b. Flour 
3j oz. Cream Tartar 



la pt. Water in which is dissolved 

4 oz. Merrell-Soule Powdered Skimmed Milk 

Other varieties of jumbles may be made from this mix. 




Wine Cake 




Merrell-Soulc Golden Anniversary Cake 

(See paje 45) 




JJ'afrr St^onc/c Calcc lll'ith Poz.-dcrcd Milk) 




Silver Cake 



Merrell-Soule Products 



47 



Spiced Jumbles 

1 lb. Butter or Lard 
Is lb. Granulated Sugar 
1 qt. Eggs. 
1 lb. Raspberry Jam 
1 pt. Molasses 
2 oz. Baking Soda 

1 pt. Water in which is dissolved 

2 oz. Merrell-Soule Powdered Skimmed Milk 
6 lb. Bread Flour 

Spices as' desired 

Directions for making jumbles: 

Rub your mixes smooth and if too stiff, add a little milk. Then 
press through a jumble bag or machine onto greased and slightly 
dusted pans, sprinkle on granulated sugar and bake in medium hot oven. 

The same recipe may be used for Walnut Jumbles and Chocolate 
Jumbles, substituting Walnut Meats or Chocolate for the spices. 



Drop Cakes 



Cream together 



Then add 



6 lb. Sugar 

3 lb. Cornpound Lard 

i lb. Butter 

2 OZ. Ammonia 
Vanilla 
3 pt. Eggs 

3 pt. Water in which is dissolved 
6 oz. Merrell-Soule Powdered Skimmed Milk 
6 oz. Baking Powder 
12 lb. Flour 

Method : Mix into a smooth soft dough, then drop through your 
hands on greased and dusted tins or fill into paper cases, and bake in 
good oven. These drop cakes can be made with chocolate and spices. 
For chocolate add 1>^ lbs. of cocoa and 1 lb. powdered sugar to the 
above recipe. 




For Pie Baking 

Pie Crust and Pie Filling 

A GOOD "bakers pie" is judged not only by the nature of the 
crust, but also by the quality of the filling and fullness of the 
pie. To combine both points, conforming to the standard set by the 
public, and also to sell at a profit, means to possess a full understanding 
of the pie baking business. 

Pie Crust 

It is difficult to give any set recipe for pie paste. Flours and lards 
vary so much in quality that it is really best to let the baker adjust 
a recipe to the materials at hand, after calling his attention to a few 
essential facts. 

One shipment of lard may be tough, another light and short; one 
contains more moisture and another more fat, so if the recipe given 
does not produce satisfactory results, look to your materials. Flours 
vary in softness and likewise water-absorbing qualities. Therefore it 
is well that both flour and lard in the manufacture of paste should be 
well chosen and adapted to a formula, if you would produce good pie 
crust. 

Pie Formula and Method 

To arrive at a formula for pie paste, the baker should ascertain 
how much water the flour, when mixed with fat, will actually take. 
If you know this, and apply the knowledge, it will make a good deal 
of difference as against the method pursued by the baker who keeps 
on pouring water into his dry ingredients, little by little, until finally 
he arrives at what he thinks is the right consistency. 

To make an ordinary, reasonably-priced good crust, you must 
weigh your flour and lard, instead of guessing at it, and dissolve the 
salt in the required amount of water, being certain how much water it 



Merrell-Soule Products 49 



takes to mix the dough so you may pour in the full amount at once, 
thereby saving the overworking of the dough. As an example we 
might say ordinary winter wheat flour takes one quart of water, four 
pounds of flour, 2 pounds of lard, one ounce of salt, two ounces Mer- 
rell-Soule Powdered Skimmed Milk. 

Very satisfactory results have been reported by some successful 
pie bakers, from the addition of two ounces of Merrell-Soule Powdered 
Buttermilk, thoroughly dissolved in the water of this mix. The 
Powdered Buttermilk has a peculiar effect on the gluten, mellowing it 
by the lactic acid contained. Further, Powdered Buttermilk is known 
to have great leavening value and the lactic acid flavor is very agree- 
able, especially when great quantities of cereals, other than wheat flour, 
are used. It also tends to make the entire baked crust more palatable 
and digestible. 

The method for mixing pie ingredients is simple enough. Rub the 
lard through the flour and add all the salted water, at a low tempera- 
ture, at once and mix without overworking, which is positively harmful 
to a flaky and short pie crust. 

Pie Filler 

The first profit in pie lies in the filler, or thickening which stabilizes 
the fruit content of the filling. The public prefers a full pie. If you 
cannot make a full pie out of fruit and sugar and sell it at a profit in 
your locality, you must use stabilizers or thickeners to fortify the fruit 
content of your filling. For this many bakers use corn starch, which 
is a fair material, but makes a filling of a tough nature, and the second 
day the pie looks flat and unsalable. Some bakers use wheat flour, 
which is of course to be desired in place of corn starch if a filler must 
be used. The worst thing to use for this purpose is cake crumbs. _,- 

These old cakes are always more or less rancid, also, the many different — ^ .. 

materials in the cake do not at all help the flavor of the pie. A ffel- "i --^ -^ 
atmized corn flake which can be bought in flake form and is manu- ^n<==^^<. 



Qte 



The Pi e Bake r) 



50 Merrell-Soule Products 

factured especially for this purpose is probably the best ingredient to 
use. Another good filler can be made, as follows : 

12 qt. Water 
2 lb. Ground Tapioca dissolved in 

little cold water 
6 lb. Sugar 

Put all in a kettle on the fire and stir until the milkiness of the 
tapioca disappears, when the mixture is done. It should never boil, 
only become glossy in appearance. It is absolutely tasteless and will 
bring out the most delicate flavor of any fruit or admixture. 

Pie Fillings 

Every baker seems to have his own method of preparing pie fillings, 
especially if fresh fruit is plentiful or he is so situated that he can get 
a good price for a product requiring no filler. Therefore we will touch 
only lightly on this subject, but would like to advise this — sharpen the 
taste of any fruit possessing an insipid flavor with lemon juice or citric 
acid. Also, be careful that your fruit is in such a condition that it will 
be properly cooked in the pie while baking. Some fruits need to be 
partly cooked before being placed in the pies. If no so-called filler 
is used and your fruit is inclined to be sloppy after the addition of 
sugar, we advise that it be cooked over the stove for a few minutes, 
then add 2 to 3 ounces of flour to each gallon of fruit. 

The Best Sellers 

Firm, smooth custard pies of all sorts, most seasonable in spring 
and summer, and delicately flavored mincemeat and pumpkin pies, in 
big demand during fall, winter and spring, are no doubt the most 
favored varieties and best sellers. 

Merrell-Soule Company having supplied the essential ingredients 
of these varieties for many years, feels competent to offer sug- 
gestions to pie bakers for the improvement of these best sellers, especi- 
ally the employment of Merrell-Soule products therein. 



Merrell-Soule Products 51 



Custard Filling for Custard Pies 

Custard No. 1 

5 oz. Sugar 

5 oz. Merrell-Soule Powdered Skimmed Milk 

4 Eggs 

4 Yolks 

1 qt. Water 

Little Vanilla, Mace and Salt for 
flavoring and seasoning 

Custard No. 2 

4 oz. Sugar 

3 oz. Flour or Starch 

1 oz. Butter 

4 oz. Merrell-Soule Powdered Skimmed Milk 

2 Eggs 

1 qt. Water 

Little Vanilla, Mace, Salt for 
flavoring and seasoning 

Method for Making Custard 

Sift the dry ingredients into a can or kettle. Break in the eggs 
and stir with a whip until you have a smooth consistency. Then add 
water and stir well so that all dry ingredients are dissolved. Strain 
off, allow any froth on top to settle and dip from the bottom when 
filling pies. 

There are many more ways of varying the ingredients given in the 
above formula, thereby producing different grades of goods. In con- 
nection with this, we have a few pointers accumulated through long 
experience and the exchange of ideas with users of our milk products, 
as follows : 

Suggestions for Custard Pie Making 

Many bakers have trouble with watery custard pie. This is not the 
fault of the milk powder or any other ingredient, but is caused by 
baking too long. A custard pie is done as soon as it is firm, no matter 
what color it may be, and must then be taken from the oven. Merrell- 
Soule Powdered Milk is better than fresh cow's milk in custard work 



52 Merrell-Soule Products 

because the baker can increase the milk solid content of his mix at 
will and the dry milk helps to thicken the custard, making the pie 
sweeter and firmer. We have a formula from a successful user of 
our product, as follows : 

Custard No. 3 

If you mix 4 lb. Sugar 

Add 1 lb. Lard or Butter in a bowl 

Then 2 qt. Egg Yolks 

1 lb. Spring Flour 

2 lb. Merrell-Soule Powdered Skimmed Milk 

You will have a regular dough. Now gradually add 10 quarts of 
water, strain, and next fill your pie bottom in the oven with a dipper. 
This will make a firm and sweet custard and sets much faster than 
corn starch custard. 

A good idea followed by many bakers is weighing the ingredients 
required for as many custard pies used in a week or two. For instance, 
if you make four pies a day, or 24 a week, weigh the required amount 
of sugar, starch or flour. Powdered Milk, salt and mace, mix and sift 
together and put away in a can or box, and every time you make a 
quantity of pies, weigh off the amount required for that number. Mix 
your eggs and water and stir into the dry ingredients. This saves time 
in weighing and does away with the guessing of the salt and flavor, 
which is hard in small mixes. The same is done with pumpkin pies, 
adding to the whole amount the required spices. This enables you to 
make uniformly spiced and tasting pumpkin pie, which is probably 
the most important feature. 

Recipes for Soft Pies 
Caramel Custard 

For this variety, select any given custard recipe of the foregoing 
paragraph, substitute "C" sugar or maple sugar for the white granu- 
lated sugar of the recipe and color with a little burnt sugar or caramel 
coloring. 



■^ 







^ 



^ 




H 


i 




ll^i 




1 «l^ 


P^ — 


'!iJ'' 






R^^^^^-. "^ 


«.^ --tu_» ^*^ 


" 


i^^iHI 


[!■■■■! 
v;^^ 


— ^ 




''•m- 


iff" 



Cnndcnsarx, Arcade, A\ Y. 




Scparn/oi's and J 'astcuri:::iiu; Apparatus 
Arcade, Xcv.' York 



Merrell-Soule Products 53 

Cheese Custard 

2 Eggs 

2 oz. Merrell-Soule Powdered Skimmed Milk 

8 oz. Sugar 

4 oz. Butter 

1 oz. Corn Starch 

1 Lemon 

1 lb. Cottage Cheese 

Cream sugar, butter, corn starch and Powdered Milk until light. 
Whip eggs and stir them in. Add juice and grated lemon rind. In- 
corporate cottage or pot cheese, which has previously been run through 
a sieve, in order to make it smooth. Stir all together and fill into 
lined pie pans. Scatter on a few small seedless raisins and dust over 
with cinnamon. Bake same as custard pie, until set. 

Chocolate Custard 

For this class of goods, select any one of the custard recipes given 
in the preceding paragraph, but before mixing the water with the dry 
ingredients, dissolve three ounces of cocoa powder or sweet chocolate, 
cocoa or chocolate liquor or any preparation suitable for flavoring and 
giving the custard a chocolate character. 

Cocoanut Custard 

For cocoanut custard, take any of the custard recipes suited to 
your business, and before filling crust, sprinkle a quantity of shredded, 
short-cut or threaded cocoanut into the bottom. 



Pumpkin or Squash Pie 

6 oz. Sugar 

5 oz. Merrell-Soule Powdered Skimmed Milk 

1 oz. Black Molasses 

3 Eggs 

1 qt. Prepared Pumpkin or Squash 

2 oz. Flour or Starch 
1 qt. Water 

Salt 



54 Merrell-Soule Products 

Spices may be varied to suit the taste of your particular trade. 
Mace and ginger or cinnamon, ginger and grated nutmeg are good 
combinations. 

The easiest way is to mix all the dry ingredients first, stir in the 
eggs and molasses, then the pumpkin and salt. Mix well and pour in 
the water. A number of bakers add the water hot, on account, some- 
times, of the consistency of the pumpkin, the hot water tending to 
distribute the pumpkin or squash more evenly. Best results are prob- 
ably obtained by allowing the mixture to stand a while, stirring it now 
and then before filling it into the crust. 

Sweet Potato Pie No. 1 

6 oz. Sugar 

4 oz. Merrell-Soule Powdered Skimmed Milk 

3 Eggs 

1 qt. Cooked Sweet Potatoes finely mashed 

1 qt. Water 

Salt 

Lemon Flavor 

Mix and treat the same as pumpkin pie. 

Sweet Potato Pie No. 2 

Take a good sized sweet potato, peel and grate, line a deep pie pan 
with pie dough, put in the grated potato and fill with a custard mix, 
the same as for custard pie, and bake. 

Cooked Cream for Pie Filling 

Before giving recipes for cream pies, we want to call the particular 
baker's attention to the fact that pie paste as made ordinarily does not 
make the best shells or linings for cream pies. With this in view, we 
give a recipe herewith, that, although it contains other ingredients than 
the pie paste given in the foregoing paragraph, will not cost any more 
to produce. 



Merrell-Soule Products SS 



Paste for Cream Pie Shells 

3 lb. Flour 

8 oz. Fat, Compound, Lard or Butter 

10 oz. Sugar 

3 Eggs 

4 oz. Merrell-Soule Powdered Skimmed Milk 
2 oz. Baking Powder 

As much cold water as dry ingredients 
will take 
i oz. Salt, reduce or increase according to 
amount of salt contained in fat 

Rub flour, baking powder, sugar, butter, Powdered Milk, as you 
would pie paste. Make a hole in center, add egg, water and salt. 
Work smooth. Roll, cut and line pie tins with this dough. Prick with 
fork and bake off, before filling with cooked custard, while hot. 

Vanilla Cream 

4 Eggs 

6 oz. Sugar 

4 oz. Powdered Milk 

1 oz. Butter 

2 oz. Corn Starch 
1 qt. Water 

Vanilla Flavor 

Place Powdered Milk, sugar and water on the fire, stirring well. 
Beat eggs and corn starch together. Before milk comes to boil, dip 
out some, and when milk comes to a boil, pour on eggs and starch, 
stirring. Pour this slowly, stirring rapidly, back into the balance of 
the milk and sugar until it thickens. Be careful that you do not cook 
this mixture, because it will curdle your eggs. Add flavor after mix- 
ture is off the fire. 

Chocolate Cream 

Proceed the same as in making vanilla cream. Use the same 
formula, except add two to three ounces or more, sweet chocolate, 
cocoa, chocolate or cocoa liquor or any other preparation that will give -" 
the chocolate character. 




56 Merrell-Soule Products 

Lemon Cream 

3 Eggs 

5 oz. Merrell-Soule Powdered Skimmed Milk 
8 oz. Sugar 

3 Lemons 

3 oz. Corn Starch 
2ipt. Water 
2 oz. Butter 

Grate rinds of two lemons and squeeze the juice of three, place 
sugar, water and Powdered Milk on the fire, stirring occasionally. 
Beat eggs and corn starch until smooth, stir in grated lemon rinds and 
juice. When milk and sugar begins to boil, add the eggs, corn starch 
and lemon juice as mixed, stirring rapidly. Take off the fire when it 
thickens and beat in two ounces good butter. 

Meringue for Pies 
Most cream pies are offered with a meringue top. With this in 
view we have collected the following recipes: 

No. 1 

6 oz. Egg Albumen 

5 lb. Granulated Sugar 
2 qt. Water 

Dissolve the albumen in water in a glass or porcelain dish, soaking 
it a few hours ahead. Add the sugar to the dissolved albumen, pour 
in kettle, start machine and let run at high speed until it becomes firm. 
Add your flavor. 

No. 2 

1 pt. Egg Whites 
3 lb. Powdered Sugar 

Pinch of Cream Tartar 

Beat up the whites until stiff, add pinch of cream of tartar and then 
gradually beat in the powdered sugar. 




Gciuval J'icw of Creamery, JJ'atcrford. Pa. 



Chemical Laboratory, 

Mcrrcll-Soulc Co., 

Syracnsr, .V. Y. 




^actcriolofjical Laboratory, .Ircadc, X. Y. 



Simple Tests for the Buyer of 
Powdered Milk 

POWDERED MILK" and "Dry Milk" are names used to cover 
a variety of products, differing widely in many important respects. 

The name "Merrell-Soule Powdered Milk" stands for qualities 
which are not possessed by any other Powdered Milk, or "Dry Milk." 
This is well known to those who have used the Merrell-Soule product, 
and have also tried other brands. 

The inducement to use some other make, rather than Merrell-Soule 
Powdered Milk, has been, oftentimes, the seeming economy of being 
able to buy at a slightly lower price. We are confident that we do not 
overstate when we say that in practically every such instance the result 
has been, instead of true economy, the exact reverse — that which has 
been gained in difference of price has been more than offset by a decided 
difference in those qualities which give to Powdered Milk its real value 
and efficiency in the bakery, the dairy, the creamery, the ice cream 
plant, the candy factory, the hotel or the home. 

Many of the disappointing and sometimes costly experiences which 
attend the use of inferior brands of Powdered Milk could be avoided 
if the buyer would take the trouble to make a few simple tests, which 
would show him the difference between Powdered Milk which repre- 
sents the Merrell-Soule standard of manufacture and the products 
made by other companies where this high standard does not obtain. 

The results obtained in the Merrell-Soule factories through stead- 
fast adherence to this standard of excellence are uniform and definite. 
In this connection, we beg to call attention to an extract, appearing 
elsewhere in this volume, from Professor O. F. Hunziker's book, "Con- 
densed Milk and Milk Powder." Professor Hunziker, as the preface 
to his book states, visited Condensed Milk and Powdered Milk factories 
in this country and in Europe, in order to obtain the material for his 
work, and its consequent completeness and accuracy have made it an 
authoritative treatise on the products with which it deals. 



58 Merrell-Soule Products 

Among the qualities to be particularly noted in Merrell-Soule Pow- 
dered Milk, and often found lacking in other brands, are : 

(1) Freedom from sediment; 

(2) Low percentage of moisture; 

(3) True milk flavor; 

(4) Absence of undesirable bacteria; 

(5) Proper percentage of butter fat; 

(6) Presence of albumen in natural state. 

All these qualities are of the highest importance to the consumer 
of Powdered Milk, and each may be definitely determined by tests not 
difficult to make. Apply these tests to Merrell-Soule Powdered Milk, 
and to any other Powdered Milk, or "Dry Milk," offered in competi- 
tion, and you will find why it is to your advantage to pay a few cents 
more per pound, to obtain the Quality for which the name Merrell- 
Soule stands. 

Sediment 

The sediment test is perhaps the most simple. Just dissolve the 
proper quantity of Merrell-Soule Powdered Milk in one glass, any 
other brand in another glass. Let them stand for an hour, then com- 
pare them. You will find that there is a complete solution of Merrell- 
Soule Powdered Milk, with no sediment. In the other glass — judging 
from our own tests and those of many customers who have given us 
their experience — you will find a sediment, varying in quantity, in 
color, and in amount of objectionable matter contained. 

The presence of sediment is always undesirable, whatever its cause. 
There may be several causes. Some processes of drying milk admit 
dirt and other foreign matter, which is mixed in with the powder, and 
appears as dark-colored particles in the sediment. Sometimes there 
is a reddish or brown sediment, caused by the milk particles having 
been overheated during the drying process. 



Merrell-Soule Products 



59 



In almost all products other than Merrell-Soule Powdered Milk, 
there is a sediment of milk solids — sometimes containing undesirable 
foreign matter and sometimes not — due to the fact that the powder 
has not been manufactured in such a manner as to dissolve quickly and 
completely in water. The reason there is no sediment in Merrell-Soule 
Powdered Milk is, simply and solely, the Merrell-Soule perfected 
process, by which a powder is manufactured that contains every ingre- 
dient of pure, fresh milk, in soluble form, ready to unite perfectly and 
instantly with water. 

Whatever the purpose for which you are using Powdered Milk, 
you cannot obtain as satisfactory and as efficient results with a powder 
which dissolves only partially, or which contains foreign matter, as 
you can with Merrell-Soule Powdered Milk. 

Moisture 



Testing for moisture is important. The whole secret of keeping 
Powdered Milk for a long period of time is contained in the one word, 
Dryness. Just in proportion to the amount of moisture contained in 
such a product as Powdered Milk will be the growth, in that product, 
of the bacteria which cause deterioration. Dryness means death to 
these bacteria, and dryness is one of the strong points of Merrell-Soule 
Powdered Milk. 

In Professor W. A. Stocking's "Manual of Milk Products," a com- 
prehensive and very informative work recently published (Macmillan, 
1917), it is stated that "The question of bacteria is entirely one of 
proper control up to the moment when the milk is dried. That it is 
possible to exercise this control is shown by the results of counts made 
on daily samples covering long periods of time. During the past 
year something like 2,800 dry samples were counted in the Merrell- 
Soule laboratory. Of these 96 per cent, were below 25,000 oer c c ^lIsicnviNG milk at 

' ^ ■ ■';/( llA MERRELL-.SOULE 

and had an average of about 2,000 per c.c. figured to the liquid basis " 



A MERRELL-JOULE 
FACTOR.Y ... * 




60 Merrell-Soule Products 

There are a number of reasons for this remarkably low bacteria 
count in Merrell-Soule Powdered Milk. First, the fact that constant 
supervision is exercised by the Merrell-Soule Company over dairy con- 
ditions at the farms from which fresh milk is received, insuring the 
highest degree of cleanliness and sanitation. Second, that the milk is 
handled under the most sanitary conditions at the Merrell-Soule fac- 
tories. Third, that it is thoroughly pasteurized. Fourth, the extreme 
dryness of the powder produced. 

It is also noteworthy that bacteria will not propagate in Powdered 
Milk of the dryness which marks the Merrell-Soule product. On this 
point Professor Stocking says: "There is rather a tendency for such 
bacteria as are present to slowly die off." 

Merrell-Soule Powdered Milk contains only from two to three per 
cent, of moisture — a lower percentage, so far as we have been able 
to learn, than that found in other powdered or "dry" milk products. 

The test for moisture is one easily made. It consists simply of 
drying a quantity of the powder in a wide, shallow weighing bottle, 
to constant weight. The loss of weight noted, when constant weight 
has been attained, represents, of course, the moisture which has been 
removed. 

Five hours is generally sufficient for drying. Do not dry longer 
than this without weighing. It has been noted that a slight increase 
in weight takes place after long drying, probably from oxidation of 
some of the constituents. The test should be made, if possible, in a 
vacuum oven at 95 to 100 degrees Centigrade. In the absence of a 
vacuum oven, an ordinary water or steam oven having a temperature 
of from 99 to 100 degrees Centigrade may be used. In this case, about 
ten hours should be allowed for the drying. The results will generally 
be a trifle low, but sufficiently accurate for purposes of comparison. 

This point of dryness is one which has constant and close attention 
at the laboratory of the Merrell-Soule Company, in Syracuse. Each 
day the laboratory receives samples of every lot of Powdered Milk 



Merrell-Soule Products 61 



made at all the Merrell-Soule factories. Moisture tests are made of 
these samples, to determine whether powder of the requisite dryness 
is being produced. If not, notice is immediately given to the factory in 
question, and some condition which should be corrected is looked after 
at once. If, for instance, a sample shows that powder is being made 
containing 3 or 3>^ per cent, of moisture, the machinery can be ad- 
justed immediately upon receipt of notification, so as to make 2>^ per 
cent, or less. 

Flavor 

The test for flavor is obvious. Simply mix up one glass of recon- 
stituted Merrell-Soule Powdered Skimmed Milk, or Whole Milk, and 
another of any competitive product. Smell them both, and decide 
which has a pure, fresh milk odor. Taste them both, for pure, fresh 
milk flavor. We know, from experience, in which sample you will 
recognize and enjoy the unmistakable rich flavor of fresh pasteurized 
cow's milk. 

Bacteria 

The test to determine whether Powdered Milk contains undesirable 
bacteria is one which will require a little longer than any of the fore- 
going. 

Mix up samples of each of the products it is desired to test, and let 
them stand long enough to sour. The reconstituted milk made from 
Merrell-Soule Powdered Milk will sour just as cows' milk does, and 
the sour milk which results may be used for any purpose commonly 
served by sour milk. 

When undesirable bacteria are present, the reconstituted milk will 
not sour properly, and will be different in odor and flavor from good 
sour milk. Generally the difference is accentuated by formation in 
the liquid of a gassy curd, rendering the sour milk unfit for use. 



62 Merrell-Soule Products 



Butterfat 

It is, of course, important to know whether the stated or proper 
percentage of butterfat is contained in any given make of Powdered 
Milk. There are several methods in use, among them the Babcock 
method, the Werner-Schmidt method, and extraction by pure ethyl 
ether of a specific gravity of 0.720. At the Merrell-Soule laboratories 
the most accurate and satisfactory results are being obtained by a 
modification of the Babcock method, worked out by N. G. Redmond, 
of the Merrell-Soule stafT of laboratory chemists. In addition to being 
accurate, this method possesses the added value of being quick, simple 
and inexpensive. Following is a description of the method by which 
a determination in duplicate can be made in less than an hour : 

Weigh 2.5 grams of Powdered Milk and transfer it to an ordinary 
Babcock milk bottle, graduated to 10 per cent. A glass funnel (about 
2 inches in diameter and with the stem cut off to ^ inch) is inserted 
in the neck of the bottle and is of great help in transferring the powder. 
Add 31 c.c. of dilute sulphuric acid (395 c.c. concentrated H2SO4 di- 
luted to one liter) and place the bottle upright in a dish of gently boiling 
water. Shake frequently and keep in the boiling water until all the 
powder is dissolved and the solution is dark brown in color. This 
usually takes from 7 to 10 minutes. After removing the bottle from 
the water add 12 c.c. concentrated H2SO4 (sp. gr. 1.82-1.83) and mix 
thoroughly, taking care to keep the solution out of the neck of the bottle. 
Agitate with a rotary motion. Place the bottle in a centrifuge and 
whirl for 4 or 5 minutes. Add hot water until the solution reaches the 
lower end of the neck, whirl again for one minute, then add hot water 
until the fat rises. Whirl again for one minute. In order to secure 
accurate results, the fat column must be read at a temperature not 
above 140 degrees Fahrenheit. By setting the bottle in water the de- 
sired temperature may be reached. Readings should be made to 0.05 
on the bottle. The reading multiplied by 7.2 gives the percentage of 
fat. 



<^ 



c^ 






"Ta 





Rccciz'iiiy and Jl'cigljiiu/ Milk at Arcade 




Ready for Shipment 



Merrell-Soule Products 



63 



Babcock bottles vary in volume. It is more convenient to use bot- 
tles which hold at least 45 c.c. of water when filled to the lower end 
of the neck. The bottle should be thoroughly cleaned, rinsed with 
alcohol and dried (to prevent powder sticking in the neck) before 
using. This insures clear and accurate readings. Commercial sul- 
phuric acid has been used in making the dilute H2SO4 solution and 
good results were obtained. It is better, however, to use chemically 
pure acid and thus avoid contamination of the fat column by impurities 
in the acid. 



Abu 



men 



One of the important features of the Merrell-Soule process is that 
it leaves the albumen in the milk in its natural state. There is no 
heating of the milk particles, at any stage of the process, to a point 
where the albumen is coagulated. There are various Powdered Milk 
and "Dry Milk" products in which the albumen has been coagulated — 
a most undesirable happening, and one seriously affecting the value of 
the milk powder, whatever may be the use for which it is intended. 

There is a very simple test for determining whether a powdered 
milk contains albumen in its natural state, or whether the albumen has 
been coagulated by cooking. Just make a thick batter of the powdered 
milk and water. Place on a tin and bake in a hot oven. A milk 
powder containing "live" albumen will puff up on the pan, retaining 
the moisture. Milk powder containing "dead" albumen will not puff' 
up, but lie flat on the pan, the moisture evaporating and leaving a dark, 
inert mass. (See page 66.) 

We trust that these tests have been so clearly explained that any- 
one may apply them. Should there be anything which is not entirely 
understood by any reader, we would be most glad to be so advised, 
and to give whatever further information mav be desired. 



\ \ 



■^M^ 



V^V/ 




Comparative Analyses 

The following comparative analyses are interesting, as showing the 
percentage composition of the various Merrell-Soule milk products : 

Percentage Composition 

Milk Ash 

Butterfat Casein Albumen Sugar (Salts) Moisture 
Merrell-Soule Skimmed Milk 

Powder 1.35% 29.79% 7.917o 49.94% 8.21% 2.80% 

Skimmed Powder Restored 1 — 9>4 13 2.84 .75 4.76 .73 90.74 

Average Skimmed Milk 9% Milk Solids .12 2.76 .73 4.63 .76 91.00 

The above analyses are taken from an average of several thousand tests made in the 
Merrell-Soule Laboratory. 

Merrell-Soule No. 14 Butterfat 

Milk Powder 14.20%, 25.56% 6.70% 44.41% 7.01% 2.12% 

Merrell-Soule No. 14 Restored 1 — S'A . . 1.50 2.69 .71 4.68 .73 89.69 

Merrell-Soule No. 25 Butterfat 

Milk Powder 28.207o 21.22% 5.45% 37.88% 5.75% 1.50% 

Merrell-Soule No. 25 Butterfat 

Milk Powder Restored 1—7 3.52 2.65 .68 4.74 .72 87.69 

Whole Milk (3.5%) 3.50 2.60 .66 4.63 .70 87.91 

Condensed Milk— 25.52% Total Milk 

Solids— 7.82% Butterfat 7.82 5.53 1.47 9.30 1.40 74.48 

Merrell-Soule No. 25 Restored 1—3 7.05 5.30 1.36 9.47 1.44 75.38 

Merrell-Soule No. 50 Butterfat 

Milk Powder 50.40% 15.17% 4.02% 25.45% 4.16% .80% 

Same restored in water 1—5 8.40 2.53 .67 4.24 .69 83.47 

Merrell-Soule No. 65 Butterfat 

Milk Powder 65.15% 10.60% 2.82% 17.86% 2.91% .66% 

Merrell-Soule No. 65 Milk Powder 

Restored (1— 3J4) 15.12 2.44 .65 4.12 .67 77.00 

Merrell-Soule No. 72 Cream Powder. .. 71.15% 8.79% 2.33%, 14.74% 2.43% .56% 
Merrell-Soule No. 72 Cream Powder 

Restored 1—2.9 18.25 2.25 .55 3.76 .62 74.57 

18% Average Cream 18.00 2.25 .61 3.81 .62 74.71 

20% Cream 20.00% 2.21% .59% 3.75% .61% 72.84% 

22% Cream 22.00 2.13 .57 3.57 .59 71.14 

30% Cream 30.00 1.94 .51 3.24 .53 63.78 

Federal Standards 

Following are the Federal Standards for Dried Milk and Dried 
Skimmed Milk : 

Dried Milk is the product resulting from the removal of water from 
milk, and contains, all tolerances being allowed for, not less than 
twenty-six per cent. (26.0%) of milk fat, and not more than five per 
cent (5.0%) of moisture. 

Dried Skimmed Milk is the product resulting from the removal of 
water from skimmed milk and contains, all tolerances being allowed 
for, not more than five per cent. (5.0%) of moisture. 



Bakers' Brick Mince Meat 

MERRELL-SOULE Bakers' Brick Condensed Mince Meat is 
especially put up for bakers' use in five-pound bricks. The 
bricks are packed six to the case. Each brick is wrapped in paraffin 
paper and encased in a tight carton. The end of the carton opens easily 
and the paraffin paper folds back, so that any amount required can be 
cut off, and the remainder neatly rewrapped and boxed. There is no 
waste, no muss, no loss of time. 

The baker who uses the Merrell-Soule Bakers' Brick Mince Meat 
may be sure that he has an extremely high quality product — a perfect 
blend of spices, beef, salt, suet, apples, raisins, lemon and orange peel, 
bound with cane sugar, vinegar and pure boiled cider. All these in- 
gredients are of best quality and are thoroughly cleansed, by a process 
which removes all foreign matter, before they go to the mixing ma- 
chine. Merrell-Soule Bakers' Brick is the most economical, clean and 
wholesome form of mince meat to use in the making of mince pies, 
producing a fine, well-flavored pie that has been a trade builder for a 
multitude of bakers, and is today one of the most popular pie ingre- 
dients on the market. 

Confectioners' Mince 

Merrell-Soule Confectioners' Mince is a blend of all the ingredients 
used in Bakers' Brick Mince Meat, with the exception of the beef, suet 
and spices. It is an ideal product for use by bakers and confectioners, 
for any purpose where fruit is required. 

Confectioners' Mince, like the Bakers' Brick, is put in five-pound 
bricks, six to a case, each brick wrapped in paraffin paper. 

How Bakers' Brick Mince Meat Is Made 

In the manufacture of Bakers' Brick Mince Meat, the ingredients 
used are chopped beef, apples, raisins, cane sugar, lemon and orange 
peel, salt, spices, suet, vinegar and pure boiled cider. 



66 Merrell-Soule Products 



All are of the best quality obtainable, and are thoroughly cleansed 
by processes which remove all foreign matter, before they go to the 
mixing machines. And every part of the factory — floor, walls, every 
piece of machinery — is kept spotlessly clean and sanitary. 

The opening room is the first point of interest to a visitor who 
makes a tour of the Merrell-Soule factory. Here are cases of frozen 
beef, bags of dried apples, barrels of sugar and 50-pound boxes of 
raisins. The raisins come from California, where most of the raisins 
of the United States are grown. The boxes are opened, the raisins 
conveyed to another floor, where they are thoroughly washed and 
stemmed. Next they are sorted, then sent to picking tables, where girls 
pick out stems and defective raisins which have escaped the machines. 

After they have thus been thoroughly picked, the raisins go to a 
steamer, which softens them for the seeding. When seeded, they are 
ready to be put into the mince meat. The raisin seeds — of which 400 
to 500 pounds a day are extracted — are ground, and sold as food for 
live stock, being valuable for their fat, sugar and protein content. 

The dried apples, taken from the bags, are dropped into a washer 
which cleans them thoroughly. From the washer they go to a drying 
box, where excess moisture is removed. As they come out of the drier 
on a carrier, they are sorted by girls who remove skins, cores and 
defective apples. They are then sent down a chute to bins in the 
grinding room. 

The beef, which comes to the opening room in a frozen state, is 
sliced thin by machinery. It is sliced for two reasons — first, that it 
will require less time for cooking than would chunks, and, second, that 
the juice will not be cooked out of it. After being cooked, it is quickly 
cooled by currents of air. 

The sugar is put through a grinding machine, which breaks up all 
lumps, then weighed into exact quantities, for mixing. 

The first mixing operation takes place in what is known as the 
grinding room. Here the apples, beef, dried orange and lemon peel, 



Merrell-Soule Products 



67 



and salt, are carefully weighed out and dropped into a large hopper, 
from which the mixture is fed into large worm-driven grinders. These 
are similar in operation to the meat grinders in common household use. 
The ingredients pass through two of these grinders in succession. The 
ground product is then dumped into metal, tin-lined containers and 
carried by an automatic conveyor to the mixing room. Meanwhile, the 
sugar is also being conveyed to this room. 

In the mixing room the containers, filled alternately with sugar and 
with the ground beef, apples, salt and peel, automatically dump into the 
mixers. These are large bowl-like affairs, in which powerful arms 
revolve through the material to be mixed. While this is going on, the 
spices and seeded raisins are mixed in. When the mixing is nearly 
completed, boiled cider and vinegar are sprayed in. After they have 
been thoroughly assimilated, the product is ready to be packed. 

The mixing machines are on the floor above the press, and directly 
over it. It is therefore an easy matter to tip the bowl part of the mixer 
over, allowing the mince meat to slide down an enclosed chute to the 
press. 



Use of Bakers' Brick Mince Meat in the Bakery 

Many bakers have proved by years of continuous use that Merrell- 
Soule Bakers' Brick Condensed Mince Meat is in every respect the 
most satisfactory mince meat they can obtain. 

Nearly all bakers prefer the five-pound bricks, packed six to the 
case, though this Condensed Mince Meat may also be had in bulk, in 
50 or 100-pound kegs. We recommend the brick form as being more 
convenient, cleanly and economical. 

The fact that Merrell-Soule Bakers' Brick Mince Meat will absorb 
one quart of water (two pounds) for each pound of mince meat used 
makes it the most economical mince meat on the market to-day, as well 
as the highest quality. 




MERRELL-^OULE 
MLHCE MEAT IM 
TtiE BAKERY, o 




68 Merrell-Soule Products 

For those who make a point of special and individual features in 
their goods, Merrell-Soule Bakers' Brick Mince Meat offers an ideal 
base, to which special ingredients may be added. 

Following is a recipe for Mince Pie Filling which we have found 
to give uniformly excellent results : 

Use one quart of water for each pound of Merrell-Soule Condensed 
Mince Meat. Break up the mince meat, pour hot water over it, boil 
five or ten minutes, allow it to cool before using. It is best to prepare 
this the same as all other pie fillings a day ahead. When ready for use 
any other special ingredients may be added for your individual trade. 

(For Pie Crust, and Pie Fillings other than Mince, see Pages 48-56.) 



Plum Pudding 

Large Mix 

SO lb. Merrell-Soule Bakers Brick Mince Meat 

6 Oranges 

16 Lemons 

6 qt. Chopped Apples 

1 qt. Egg Yolk 

1 qt. Molasses 

1 qt. Condensed Apple Cider 

2 lb. Merrell-Soule Powdered Skimmed Milk 

or Buttermilk 

1 lb. Cinnamon 

2 oz. Cloves 
2 oz. Ginger 
2 oz. Allspice 

41b. Salt 

1 oz. Baking Soda (If buttermilk is used, 

increase to 2 oz.) 

Method : Grind up fine the oranges, lemons and apples through 
meat chopper, mix all the ingredients well and add the following : 

10 lb. Sultana Raisins 
10 lb. Cake Crumbs 

2 lb. Bread Crumbs which have been 

soaked in milk 
4 lb. Bread Flour 

Mix again well, then fill in greased pudding tins, dusted with cake 

crumbs and cover up tight. 

Steam from three to four hours, according to size of puddings. 




McrrcII-Soiilc Contitiuons Condoisc, 
jratcrford. Pa. 




Pasteurizing Apparatus, McrreU-Soulc Factory 
Waterford, Pa. 




c^ 



0, 



li. 



Merrell-Soule Products 69 



Plum Pudding No. 2 

Small Mix 

8 lb. Merrell-Soule Bakers Brick Mince Meat 
1 lb. Small Seedless Raisins 
h\h. Cracker Meal 
3 Lemons — Rind and Juice 

1 pt. Condensed Apple Cider 
6 Eggs 

1 oz. Salt 

2 oz. Cinnamon 
i oz. Cloves 

2 oz. Ginger 
1 pt. Water in which has been dissolved 3 oz. 

Merrell-Soule Powdered Skimmed Milk 
I oz. Soda 



Mix as foregoing formula. 



Steamed English Fruit Pudding 

Ulb. Merrell-Soule Confectioners Mince 

I lb. Small Seedless Raisins 
5 oz. Butter 
4 Eggs 

2 oz. Merrell-Soule Powdered Skimmed Milk 

I pt. Water 

nb. Flour 

i oz. Baking Powder 

Little Cinnamon and Lemon Juice 

Mix w^ell, fill in moulds and steam for about an hour. 



Confectioners' Mince in the Bakery 

Merrell-Soule's Confectioners' Mince, which may be termed a Fruit 
Paste, is a ready-to-use fruit mixture, evenly proportioned, and is 
offered to the baker as a well-balanced fruit filler, an ideal ingredient 
for producing an excellent fruit cookie, coffee ring filler, or layer cake 
center. It may be used as the main ingredient in making the finest 
grade of fruit cake, and quality holiday and wedding goods. 

A baker does not need to change his recipe for any of the baked 
products mentioned above, except that he recalculates the fruit and 
sugar ingredients of any mix containing fruit. 



70 Merrell-Soule Products 

For example: 

Old Mix, Black Fruit Cake 

4 lb. Butter and Lard 

5 lb. Sugar 
30 Eggs 

1 pt. Molasses 

1 pt. Water, in which is dissolved 

2 oz. Merrell-Soule Powdered Skimmed Milk 

61 lb. Flour 

1 oz. Baking Powder 
10 lb. Seeded Raisins 

3 lb. Seedless Raisins 

2 lb. Citron 

Spices 

Method : Rub sugar and butter, add eggs slowly in small quantities, 
sift in baking powder and flour, pour in molasses, milk and spices, mix, 
and then incorporate fruit, which has been dusted with a little flour. 
Bake in a very slow oven, in paper lined pans, timed according to size 
of the cake, figuring not less than an hour for the smallest cake. 

Readjusted to use Merrell-Soule Confectioners' Mince as the fruit 
ingredient, this recipe is recalculated as follows : 

20 lb. Merrell-Soule Confectioners' Mince 

4 lb. Butter and Lard 
30 Eggs 

J pt. Molasses 
2 oz. Merrell-Soule Powdered Skimmed Milk 

dissolved in 
1 pt. Water 

62 lb. Flour and Cereal according to FEB. 20% 
1 oz. Baking Powder 

Spices 

The method is simplified as follows : 

Rub butter. Confectioners' Mince and spices, add eggs slowly in 
small quantities, sift on flour and baking powder, pour on molasses and 
milk dissolved together, and mix. Lay out and bake the same as fore- 
going example. 

Comparison 

Comparison of the two recipes shows that although the weights of 
the finished products will be the same, the comparative volume obtained 



Merrell-Soule Products 71 

will be greater in the recipe in which the Confectioners' Mince is used, 
as it replaces 5 pounds of sugar, which cannot show as great a volume 
in the finished baked goods as the Confectioners' Mince. Besides this 
advantage, there is the saving of labor accompHshed by the use of 
Confectioners' Mince. It takes a good deal of time and work to pre- 
pare 15 pounds of fruit for fruit cake, weigh it, dust it with flour and, 
especially, to cut the citron, lemon or orange peel. 

Also, the cost of production is not increased. Twenty pounds of 
confectioners' mince does not cost any more than the five pounds of 
cane sugar, 10 lbs. of muscat raisins, 3 lbs. of seedless raisins and 2 
lbs. of citron, which formed the ingredients of the old recipe. There 
is also the important consideration of the extra cubic volume of baked 
goods obtainable, which because it is not sucrose, does not melt and is 
not lost in the process of baking. 

This example clearly points out the merits and possibilities of 
Confectioners' Mince. 

Suggestions for the use of Confectioners' Mince will be found in 
the following recipes : 

Coffee Cake Fillings 

For Cofifee Rings, also tarts and other filled goods 
5 lb. Merrell-Soule Confectioners' Mince 

i^ lb. Chopped Nuts 
5 pt. Water 
2 lb. Cake Crumbs 
Spices optional 

Method : Break up Confectioners' Mince in water, bring to a boil. 

Allow to cool and mix in nuts and cake crumbs. It is then ready for 

use. 

Fruit Filling No. 2 
This is high class fruit ingredient as a filler in better grade goods. 

2 lb. Almond Paste 

5 lb. Confectioners' Mince 

h lb. Chopped Nuts 

1 lb. Cake Crumbs 



72 Merrell-Soule Products 

Method : Mix almond paste, mince and nuts with hot milk to the 
consistency of a paste. When cold, add cake crumbs to any thickness 
desired. 

Layer Cake Filling 
Heat 3 pounds Merrell-Soule Confectioners' Mince and mix into 
a quantity of fondant or marshmallow, or combine with a cooked 
cream. This makes an excellent and tasty filler, much appreciated by 
the public and is cheaper than chocolate or many other fillers, such as 
jelly or jam, commonly used in this grade of goods. 

Fruit Layer or Spiced Fruit Mix 

Spice and Salt optional 
5 lb. Confectioners' Mince 
II lb. Butter and Lard 
1 qt. Egg-s 

4 oz. Merrell-Soule Powdered Skimmed Milk 
dissolved in 

1 qt. Water 

4 oz. Baking Powder 

4 lb. Flour and Cereals according to FFB 20% 

substitute 

Method : Mix as usual. Start by rubbing Confectioners' Mince 
with fat. 

Fruit Bars or Slices 

5 lb. Confectioners' Mince 
5 lb. Flour and Cereals 

4 lb. Cake Crumbs 

2 lb. Lard 

Is pt. Eggs or Yolks 

1 pt. Water, in which is dissolved 

2 oz. Merrell-Soule Skimmed Milk Powder 

1 pt. Lt. Molasses 

2 oz. Cinnamon 
2 oz. Soda 

Salt 

Method :Rub lard. Confectioners' Mince and soda, add eggs slowly, 
cinnamon and molasses, then the cake crumbs, then milk, then 
flour, cereals and salt. Mix thoroughly, weigh out in one pound 
pieces, roll out in long strips, put three on a pan, flatten a little and 




Fruit Layer or Spice Fruit, Iced 




Black Fruit Cake 

(See page 70) 




u 



^ 



Merrell-Soule Products 73 

wash with tgg wash. Bake in a medium hot oven and cut in bars. 
Broken nuts may be added to this mixture. 

Fruit cookies and fruit shces can be made from the same mix. 
For making fruit cookies, roll out the dough ^^ inch thick, cut out 
round and place them close together on bench. When they are all cut 
out, brush off the dusting flour and wash over with egg wash. Don't 
get them too wet. Make a dent in the center of each with finger and 
put in a dot of fruit filling No. 2 as described on page 71. Bake in 
medium oven. 

Fruit Cookies No. 2 

5 lb. Confectioners' Mince 
3i lb. Butter 
10 Eggs 

5 oz. Merrell-Soule Skimmed Milk Powder 

dissolved in 
2i pt. Water 
10 lb. Flour and Cereal 
22 oz. Powdered Ammonia 

(More or less according to strength) 
Spices and Salt optional 

Method : Mix the same as sugar cookies. Start by rubbing Con- 
fectioners' Mince with fat. 

Fruit Biscuits 

5 lb. Flour 

I lb. Butter 

22 lb. Merrell-Soule Confectioners' Mince 

6 oz. Sugar 
10 Eggs 

3 oz. Merrell-Soule Milk Powder 
dissolved in 

II pt. Water 

1 oz. Soda 

2 oz. Cream of Tartar 

Sieve flour and cream of tartar together on a bench. Rub sugar. 
Confectioners' Mince, butter and a pinch of salt, whip eggs and stir in 
sugar, butter and mince, sift on flour, make a bay, pour in soda and 
milk powder dissolved in the water and mixed together. Lay out the 
same as tea biscuit, wash top with milk or e.gg, when baked ice with 
vanilla icing, leave plain, or dust with powdered sugar. 



74 Merrell-Soule Products 

These recipes are typical of what can be made with Confectioners' 
Mince, but bakers themselves will readily find many uses for it instead 
of the fruit and sugar that they have been using. The fact that thi^ 
material is very convenient and handy in the shop also makes it attrac- 
tive to bakers and confectioners. 

At Your Service 

In the foregoing pages we have attempted to set forth, as clearly and 
fully as possible, the nature, uses and advantages of the food products 
we manufacture. We feel sure that every consumer of these products, 
indeed everyone concerned in the distribution or use of them, will 
find in this volume much that is of interest and of value. 

If there is anything not fully understood, or if there is some subject 
upon which any user of our products would like further information 
and explanation, we shall be glad to hear from him. We will write 
fully in answer to his inquiry, or we will be glad to place at his disposal 
one of our service representatives — experts, whose business it is to 
visit the baker, the ice cream maker, the confectioner, or any consumer 
of Merrell-Soule products who may desire a personal demonstration 
of the best methods of use. 

Also, each day brings to light new uses for Merrell-Soule Powdered 
Milk products, and new advantages which attend their use. There- 
fore we cannot hope to include, in this book, all that Merrell-Soule 
Powdered Milk must eventually mean to the industries with which 
we have dealt, nor all the fields of activity into which it will some day 
enter. This is a story which is writing itself, chapter by chapter, and 
day by day. 

We can only say that as these fore-shadowed developments in the 
uses of our products go beyond the contents of this volume, we shall 
hope to keep all our friends fully advised through other avenues of 
contact which will always be open. 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




