749 



37 



19 
py 1 




UNUSUAL 
MEATS 



Cllnusual 
oMeats 







Recipes prepared 
by Mrs. Harriet 
Ellsworth Coates. 



Swift & Company 

USA- 



Copyright f919 by Swift & Co 



any 11 




arew 4 tola 



^\ \^ ^ Unusual Meats 

SOME meat foods tKat have always been considered 
delicacies by the most discriminating, epicures of 
Europe, and that have been used in many delicious dishes 
by famous hotel chefs in the United States, have been 
ne^ected by the American housewife. 

Fancy Meats, as they are known to the trade, consisting 
principally of livers, hearts, brains, melts, and kidneys, 
have not been g,iven the place on the menus in this coun- 
try that they deserve. Because of their perishable nature, 
it was not until recent years possible at all times to deliver 
them in perfect condition. With the use of modem refrig,- 
eration in plant, car, and branch house, we are able to 
promise prompt delivery, at all seasons, of these meat 
products at the very height of their perfection. 

When your dealer opens a case of Swift & Company's 
Fancy Meats to fill your order, he, finds a product that 
was under the watchful eye of United States Government 
Inspectors during, its prog,ress through a plant equipped 
with every known device for insuring perfect cleanliness; 
a product that was packed in a new cloth and paper lined 
wood case, and promptly frozen; then shipped in a refrig- 
erator car as spotlessly clean as soap and hot water could 
make it; stored in a branch-house cooler maintained with 
g,reat care at a low temperature, and delivered in a condi- 
tion guaranteed to be perfect. 

This booklet contains a few new recipes by Mrs. Harriet 
Ellsworth Coates, the well-known authority on domestic 
science. These dishes have been given careful study and 
trial and will be found to be unusually palatable and very 
nutritious. Similar recipes can be found in most cook 
books, in many magazines, and in the daily newspapers. 

The use of Fancy Meats, in attractive ways, such as are 
herein described, will give a pleasing, variety to the home 
menu, will result in a very decided reduction in the cost 
of the meat item of the family budget, and will help the 
solution of the present world problem of food production. 

If your dealer does not have a full assortment of these 
products, he will be ^lad to ^et them promptly for you 
from, our conveniently located branch. 

Swift & Company 

U. S. A. 




fm—sy -vrf^i"^ 



Beef Melts - Salisbury 

WASH and dry tKe melts and remove the outside 
skin. Chop two ounces of suet; mix it with 
two cupfuls of bread crumbs in a bowl; add one 
tablespoonful of chopped parsley, half a teaspoonful 
of savory herbs, the thinly peeled rind of half 
a lemon, salt, and pepper; beat one e^^ and stir in. 
Spread the melts with this forcemeat; roll it up in a 
bolster-like shape ; tie round with string, and skewer 
it. Put it in a roasting pan; pour drippings over 
the top; put it in the oven, and cook for about two 
hours ; baste frequently while cooking,. Serve on hot 
dish; garnish with parsley. Make a brown ^ravy 
with the drippings in the pan; strain and serve in 
sauce tureen. 



Melts are considered a rare treat at 
"killing time " in every farm home. City 
housewives may now secure them the 
year round and will find beef, pork, or 
sheep melts both wholesome and deli- 
cious. 



Pa^e Four 



=m:t:'^ 







Porh Melts - Provencale 

WASH and dry melts and remove all thick out- 
side skin; cut into squares; put into a bowl, 
add a crushed clove of g,arlic, two cloves, six pepper- 
corns, one bay-leaf, sprig, of parsley, one sliced onion, 
salt, and one-half cup vinegar. Let melts remain in 
this for three hours, turning, occasionally. When 
ready to cook, drain meat, dry, and fry in butter; 
take up meat and fry one onion in the sauce butter; 
add a tablespoonful of flour, and brown; stir in the 
strained liquid that melts were soaked in and two 
cups of stock. Put melts into this and simmer slowly 
for about two hours. Remove them, strain sauce, 
put the meat into dish, pour sauce over, g,amish round 
with boiled string beans. 



All Swift & Company Fancy Meats are 
from Government inspected animals, 
freshly frozen, transported in refrigerator 
cars to our branches throughout the 
country and handled under refrigeration 
until they reach the retailer. 



Pa^e Five 



^ 




Calf's Liver -Lon^ Beach 

SOAK liver in cold water, tKen wipe dry and cut 
into slices about one-fourtK of an inch tKick. Mix 
into two tablespoonfuls of flour a teaspoonful of salt 
and a little pepper; dip slices of liver into it; cutKalf 
pound of bacon into thin slices and fry in frying, pan. 
Have ready a hot dish, put bacon on it; fry slices of 
liver in bacon fat; when cooked, place in the center 
of hot platter with bacon arranged around. Put into 
pan a tablespoonful of flour, stir until brown, then add 
a cup of water, cook a few minutes and then pour it 
over the liver. Garnish the top of liver with an 
onion cut into wheels and sprig,s of g,reen parsley. 



Liver is a wholesome meat food that may 
be prepared in many appetizing ways. 
For variety, the thrifty housewife may 
choose from these kinds: calf, veal, beef, 
lamb, or pork liver. 



Pahe Six 




Pork Liver - Fermiere 

CUT tKe liver into slices and soak it in cold water 
for a few minutes; then drain it from tke water, 
dredge the slices with flour, and fry them in butter 
substitute; remove the liver and put a cupful of 
water in the pan with a lump of butter rolled in 
flour; add a spoonful of vinegar and a little cayenne 
pepper; boil till it thickens, stirring, all the while. 
Serve the liver on a bed of boiled spinach with thin 
slices of fried bacon. Garnish the dish with quarters 
of hard boiled eg,g,s. This recipe can be varied by 
the substitution of sheep liver, calf liver, veal liver, 
or lamb liver with the best of results. 



Many additional recipes for preparing 
these meats will be found in recent and 
current issues of many women's maga- 
zines. Serve them often and both save 
and please. 



Pap.e Seven 



^^ 




Beef Heart - Clarid^e 

PUT Keart in cold water for Kal£ an Kour; remove 
pipes, wipe dry, stuff witK Kerb stuffing, tie 
securely, roast for about tKree Kours in moderate oven; 
remove string,s, serve hot w^itK ^ravy poured around. 
Stuffing — CKop one ounce of suet fine, add two cups 
bread crumbs, one chopped onion; season with pars- 
ley, a little thyme, pepper, salt, and g,rated nutmeg. 
Mix well and add one whole e^^ to bind it. 
Sauce — Mix three lar^e ripe tomatoes (or half a can 
of drained canned tomatoes), two sliced onions, two 
cupfuls stock, juice of one lemon, and teaspoonful 
prepared mustard; boil fifteen minutes, mix with 
teaspoonful of cornstarch dissolved in cold water; 
rub throu3,h fine sieve, reboil, and add a tablespoon- 
ful of finely chopped parsley. 



Hearts have been a staple article of diet 
in many homes and may be economically 
served in many attractive ways. Serve 
beef, pork, or sheep hearts. 



Pa^e Ei^ht 



1^-, 




Porh Hearts - Wayside Inn 

TAKE two or tKree pork hearts, remove cores and 
clean inside of Kearts; season witK salt and pep- 
per, stuff with herb farce, fasten with needle and 
string; ruh hearts over with dripping,s, put in a bak- 
ing, tin, and roast for about one hour, basting them 
frequently. Serve on hot dish, famish with tomatoes 
or olive potatoes. Serve with mustard sauce in 
sauce-boat. 

Mustard Sauce— ¥ry two tablespoonfuls of oleo- 
margarine and same amount of barley flour till a 
lig,ht brown color, mix with a cup of brown stock, 
stir till it boils, and add a teaspoonful of vineg,ar, a 
tablespoonful of Worcestershire sauce (or tomato 
catsup) , half a teaspoonful of prepared mustard, and 
a dust of paprika. 



Swift & Company have devised improved 
sanitary methods for handling and pack- 
ing hearts. They reach the retailer in as 
perfect a state as when they leave our 
modern plants. 



Pa^e Nine 




'^^mm^mm^ 



Sheep's Brains - Mornin^side 

BOIL tKe sKeep's brains, cKop them, -and put into 
a saucepan witK some slices of Kam, a chopped 
onion, salt, and pepper; Keat in a cup of cream, and 
serve on fried bread with grated yolk of hard-boiled 
eg,^ on top. 

Omelette Belvidere — Dice half cupful of cooked 
brains; melt two tablespoonfuls of butter; put in 
brains; stir for a few minutes; add three tablespoon- 
fuls cream, season with salt and pepper; keep hot. 
Beat four eg,g,s, season to taste, melt one tablespoon- 
ful of butter; when hot, pour in e^^s; stir until it 
begins to set round ed^e; place brain stew in center, 
roll quickly into oval shape, turn onto hot dish, pour 
remainder of sauce round. Garnish with watercress. 



Brains are rapidly coming into favor 
throughout he United States as a tasty, 
savory meat food. You may secure calf, 
beef, pork, or sheep brains. They are 
freshly frozen and packed in sanitary 
tin pails. 



Pa^e Ten 




Porh Brains - Deviled 

CUT toasted and buttered slices of bread into cut- 
let-shapes, about a quarter inch in thickness; 
sprinkle with grated cheese, put pieces of blanched 
pork brains on each; cover slices with prepared 
mustard; season with paprika; sprinkle a little more 
grated cheese and browned bread crumbs on top; 
put into oven till cheese begins to melt. Serve with 
watercress salad. 

Claremont — Take off fibres and skin; soak in cold 
water for two hours; put into boiling water; add 
teaspoonful vinegar, salt, and pepper; let scald; take 
out, pass throug,h cold water. Fry two onions in but- 
ter substitute, pour in two cups stock, bunch sweet 
herbs, and mushrooms; stir. Cut brains into squares, 
mix with sauce, put into casserole and into slow 
oven for thirty minutes. Garnish. 



Brains are taken from freshly killed, 
Government inspected animals, carefully 
cleaned and packed in sanitary tin pails. 
They are frozen and travel under refrig- 
eration until they reach the retail dis- 
tributor. 



I 



Pa^e Eleven I i 



■?5? 



/ 













1 




lecied W 

LiveO 




li 




J 




Pork Kidneys - Friars 

TAKE some pork kidneys, remove tKe cores and 
skins and split tKem open; season tKe cut side 
witK a little salt, pepper, finely chopped onion, and 
parsley; place a thinly cut piece of raw bacon on 
each, over the seasoning; pass a small skewer throug,h 
the kidneys and attach the bacon to it. Then dip 
into some warm butter substitute and from that into 
some brow^ned bread crumbs, and broil for about 
ei^ht to ten minutes; then take up and arrang,e on 
slices of broiled tomatoes that have been dredg,ed 
with salt, pepper, and a little onion juice, dipped in 
melted butter, then in cracker crumbs. Arrange on 
slices of toast and serve. 



Kidneys are used and recognized as an 
essential meat food by the chefs of most 
hotels and clubs. They should be more 
generally used in the home. 



Pa^e Fourteen 



^ 




Braised Sweetbreads 

SOAK sweetbreads in cold water for an Kour, put 
into saucepan with cold water to cover; brin^ to 
boil; take up, press till cold; trim, remove fat and 
gristle; make bed at bottom of saucepan with onion, 
carrots, and turnips diced, string beans cut into short 
lengths, ^reen peas, and a bouquet of herbs; add 
some ^ood stock, lay sweetbreads on this, put on lid 
of saucepan, braise slowly for thirty minutes. Cook 
mixed ve3,etables separately — string beans, g,reen 
peas, white turnips, and carrots; when cooked, mix 
together; keep hot. Put slice of fried bread on hot 
dish, dress sweetbreads on it; reduce liquor to ^laze, 
coat sweetbreads; g,arnish with watercress; put g,roups 
of vegetables round dish. Pour sauce round; serve hot. 



Sweetbreads are delicacies that enable 
the discriminating housewife to vary her 
menus with certain success. Either beef 
or calf sweetbreads will answer this need. 



Pa^e Fifteen 






Pork Lips - Favorite 

SCALD pork lips, scrape, wasK and put into stewpan 
o£ cold water and bring, to a boil; strain, cover 
a^ain with cold water, simmer till the lips are tender; 
take up, wash two quarts o£ spinach thoroughly and 
put into stewpan in the pork lips liquor. When cooked, 
drain thoroughly, add salt, pepper, a little grated 
onion, juice o£ half a lemon; turn out onto a hot dish 
in a mound shape, arrang,e pork lips in circles, 
sprinkle with grated cheese. Serve mustard sauce for 
the pork lips in separate dish. 

Mustard Sauce — Cream two tablespoonfuls butter; 
add the juice of one raw onion, saltspoonful cayenne 
pepper, one of salt, a tablespoonful of prepared 
mustard, mix with vinegar to soft paste. 



Pork lips offer a high food value at a very 
low cost. Serve them as directed above 
and surprise your family. They make 
an appetizing dish. 



I 



Pa^e Sixteen 



r 




'S*? 




Pork Tails - Westchester 

WASH and trim two or three pork tails; divide 
tKem into two- or three-inch pieces at the 
joints; put them into a stewpan and cover with cold 
water; when it Loils, take off the scum and add a 
bunch of herbs, a small onion cut into slices, a blade 
o£ mace, and a little salt and pepper; let the tails 
simmer slowly until they are tender; when done, 
take them out, thicken the ^ravy w^ith a tablespoon- 
ful of flour, strain the ^ravy, and add two table- 
spoonfuls of catsup. Serve the pork tails on a bed 
of boiled samp and pour the ^ravy over them. 

When preferred, boiled rice may be used in place of 
samp. 



Pork tails are cheap and full of nutriment. 
They are widely used in the old countries 
and will be in American homes when more 
is known of the economy of their use. 



Pa^e Seventeen 




Oxtails - Londonderry 

WASH two oxtails; dry and cut into joints; melt 
two tablespoonfuls drippings, add pieces of 
oxtail and fry brown; put into casserole and add two 
cups brown g,ravy, four whole small onions, three 
quartered carrots, handful string beans, cup ^reen 
peas, two chopped g,reen peppers, and six allspice 
and peppercorns. Cover; put into oven and simmer 
slowly for one and one-half hours; remove spice; 
serve hot in casserole. 

Meurice — Cut oxtail into joints, put into cold water 
and boil; take up, dry, put. into saucepan, add quart 
of stock, two peeled onions, bay-leaf, spri^ of pars- 
ley, one-eighth teaspoon.ful thyme; simmer gently; 
drain on sieve, let cool. Beat an e^^, dip ox joints, 
brush with e^^, then in bread crumbs, and fry in 
hot fat. Drain, serve. 



Oxtail joints are fairly well known and 
should be more generally used. They 
are splendid for both soups and stews. 



Pahe Eighteen 




*' 



5 



Calf's Head 



lu 



SOAK Kalf a calf's Kead in cold water for an Kour 
and tKen for ten minutes in hot water before it 
is tKoroug,hly dressed; remove brains and bone, clean, 
and tie in a clean cloth; put into saucepan, cover 
with water, add a bunch of parsley, peppercorns, 
lar^e onion with five cloves stuck into it; cover and 
cook until tender; drain, place on hot dish and g,ar- 
nish with sliced tong,ue, hard boiled eg,^, and crisp 
celery. 

Francaise — Soak calf's head as above; bone, tie in 
cloth, cover with cold water, season; brin^ to boil; 
strain, rinse in cold water, replace cloth, put into stew- 
pan with bunch of herbs, peppercorns, two onions, 
three carrots, celery, juice of two lemons; cover with 
water, bring, to boil; simmer gently for three hours; 
take up, remove cloth and tongue; place on hot dish. 
Garnish. 



Calves heads are considered a rare deli- 
cacy and' many attractive, delicious dishes 
may be concocted from them by a thrifty 
housewife. 



Pa^e Nineteen 




Povh Feet in Batter - Epicurienne 

CLEAN pork feet, put into saucepan of cold water, 
brin^ to a Loil; strain, cover a^ain witK water, let 
simmer until tender; cool. Sift Kalf cup of flour into 
bowl, beat in one e^g, yolk, one tablespoonful salad oil, 
and one of milk; stir in whipped wKite of e^^. Have 
ready a pan of hot fat; dip in batter, then drop into 
fat, fry a golden brown; take up, drain, serve hot on 
fried cornmeal mush cakes; g,arnish with lemon 
slices, pour sauce around. 

Sauce — Put into saucepan three sliced onions fried in 
bacon fat without browning, teaspoonful of salt, 
quarter teaspoonful pepper, two cupfuls strained 
tomato puree, juice of two lemons; stir till it boils, 
add tablespoonful of dissolved cornstarch. Stir a^ain 
till it boils, add two tablespoonfuls of |,rated cheese 
and use. 



Pickled is one of the flavory ways of 
serving pig's feet. They may also be 
boiled, baked, or fried in several deli- 
cious ways. 



Pa^e Twenty 



fef ff) 




Pork Tongue with Italian Sauce 

BOIL pork tongue till tender, then place the tong,ue 
on fried slices of bread. Garnish the dish with 
watercress and pimento olives. Serve with Italian 
sauce in separate dish. 

Sauce — Fry one clove of g,arlic, two chopped onions, 
and one ^reen pepper in butter; add one cup of to- 
mato pulp; season with salt, pepper, and paprika, and 
teaspoonful of tarragon vineg,ar; strain and use. 
With Currant Sauce — Boil pork tongue and skin 
and trim it very carefully. Melt a glassful of currant 
jelly in a saucepan; when hot, add a tablespoonful 
of chopped citron, one-quarter cup of seeded raisins 
and same amount of blanched almonds. Put tongue 
on a hot platter and pour the sauce around. Pork 
tongue is very appetizing when served as above. 



Many housewives know and use beef 
tongue. These will be agreeably sur- 
prised at the zest with which their families 
will greet dishes prepared from pork and 
l^mb tongues. 



Pa^e Twenty-one 






Your Dealer Will Help 
You Vary Your Menu 

NO one is in a Letter position to recommend a cKan^e 
from tKe "eternal round of roasts, steaks, and chops," 
than the dealer. He has made it his business to learn all 
about meat foods and he is ready and willing, to tell you 
how best to add new items to your menus. There are 
seasons of plenty and shortag,e in all meats, so that if you 
include in your bill -of fare this item or that item when in 
season, you will benefit and you will aid in the conser- 
vation of food. 

Before placing your order, you will find it most satisfactory 
to ask for the dealer's advice. 

The value of variety in the menu is appreciated by every- 
one who buys meat products for the home table. The 
frequent substitution of toothsome dishes like those 
described in this booklet will add a variety to the meal 
hour that will be better than a tonic for jaded appetites. 

The use of these recipes will also prove to be an economy. 
With the people clamoring for steaks and roasts, the rest 
of the beef products must sell for what they will. The 
saving, throug,h the use of some of the less familiar item.s 
is, therefore, often fifty cents on the dollar. 

Fancy Meats are also more nourishing, than many of the 
cuts of meats frequently ordered. Laboratory tests show, 
for instance, that a pound of liver contains nearly twice as 
much protein as a pound of beef, which has an average 
percentag,e of bone and fat. 

Why not g,o to the market and let your dealer show you 
his stock of these Unusual Meats? He will be ^ad to do 
this and to tell you when and how to buy to your g,reatest 
advantag,e. 

Swift & Company 

U. S. A. 



Pa^e Twenty-two 



Fancy Meats 



Beef Brains 
Sheep Brains 
Pork Brains 
Lamb Fries 
Beef Fries 
Calf Feet 
Pork Feet 
Calf Heads 
Lamb Heads 
Pork Heads 
Calf Livers 
Veal Livers 
Beef Livers 
Pork Livers 
Lamb Livers 
Beef Melts 
Pork Melts 
Sheep Melts 



Beef Tripe 
Beef Sweetbreads 
Calf Sweetbreads 
Pork Tails 
Oxtails 
Pork Ears 

Beef Hang^in^ Tenders 
Beef Hearts 
Pork Hearts 
Sheep Hearts 
Pork Jowls 
Pork Kidneys 
Pork Snouts 
Pork Lips 
Pork Tong,ues 
Lamb Tong,ues 
Beef Tongues 
Calf Tong^ues 
Oxtail Joints 



Ask your dealer to show you the 
above in the original improved 
Swift & Company package, Just 
as they were delivered to him. 



Pa^e Twenty-three 



T^HE preparation of these 
meats hy our departments 
— for delivery to you through 
your dealer — has been a mat- 
ter of studied care. 




Pa^e Twenty-four 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




012 820 820 3 • 



