
Presented to 

Xtbran? 

of tbe 

of Toronto 



of 
The Cauna,di2t-r Red C^ss 



IJJAHTHOIT or pupini-mira i^iaa- 






TEXT-BOOK OF HYGIENE 

FOE TEACHEES 



on Education. 



PRINCIPLES AND METHODS OF TEACHING. By JAMES 
WELTON, M.A., late Professor of Education in the University 
of Leeds. Second Edition, Revised and Enlarged. 7s. 6d. 

PRINCIPLES AND METHODS OF MORAL TRAINING with 
special reference to School Discipline. By Professor J. 
WELTON, M.A., and F. G. BLANDFORD, M.A. 4s. 6d. 

THE FUNDAMENTALS OF PSYCHOLOGY. For the use of 
Teachers. By B. DUMVILLE, M.A., F.C.P. os. 6d. 

PRINCIPLES AND METHODS OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION 
AND HYGIENE. By W. P. WELPTON, B.Sc. 5s. 6d. 

INTRODUCTION TO EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY IN 
RELATION TO EDUCATION. By C. W. VALENTINE, M.A., 
D.Phil., Professor of Education in the Queen's University, 
Belfast. 3s. 6d. 

CHILD MIND. An Introduction to Psychology for Teachers. 
By B. DUMVILLE, M.A., F.C.P. 3s. 6d. 

TEACHING: ITS NATURE AND VARIETIES. By B. 
DUMVILLE, M.A., F.C.P. 5s. 6d. 

TEXT-BOOK OF HYGIENE FOR TEACHERS. By R. A- 
LYSTER, M.D., B.Sc., D.P.H. 5s. 6d. 

SCHOOL ORGANISATION. By S. E. BRAY, M.A. 4s. 

THE HISTORY OF ELEMENTARY EDUCATION IN 
ENGLAND AND WALES FROM 1800 TO THE PRESENT 
DAY. By C. BIRCHENOUOH, M.A., Lecturer in Education at 
Sheffield University 5s. 6d. 

VOICE TRAINING IN SPEECH AND SONG. By H. H. 
HULBERT, M.A., M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., London University 
Lecturer on Voice Production. 2s. 

THE SCIENCE OF SPEECH. An Elementary Manual of 
Phonetics for Teachers. By B. DUMVILLE M.A. 3s. 6d. 

THE AIMS AND METHODS OF NATURE STUDY. By J. 
RENNIE, D.Sc., F.R.S.E., Lecturer in Natural History at the 
University of Aberdeen. 4s. 6d. 

SCHOOL LESSONS IN PLANT AND ANIMAL LIFE. By 
J. RENNIE, D.Sc., F.R.S.E. 5s. 6d. 

SCHOOL GARDENING. By A. HOSKING. 3s. 6d. 

THE TEACHING OF DRAWING : ITS AIMS AND METHODS. 

By S. POLAR and H. C. QUILTER. 3s. 6d. 
EDUCATIONAL HANDWORK (OR MANUAL TRAINING). 

By ALFRED H. JENKINS, First Class Diploma of City and 

Guilds of London Institute. 3s. 6d. 



IJIV 

Ir. 



TEXT-BOOK OF HYGIENE 

FOE TEACHERS 



BY 

EGBERT A. LYSTEE, M.D., Cn.B., B.Sc. (LOND.) 
D.P.H., B.SC. (PUBLIC HEALTH) 

COUNTY MEDICAL OFFICER OF HEALTH FOR HAMPSHIRE, AND CHIEF MEDICAL 
OFFICER TO THE EDUCATION COMMITTEE OF THE HAMPSHIRE COUNTY COUNCIL 

TUTOR IN PUBLIC HEALTH AT ST. BARTHOLOMEW'S HOSPITAL, LONDON 

FORMERLY ASSISTANT LECTURER IN HYGIENE AT THE UNIVERSITY OF BIRMINGHAM 

BACTERIOLOGIST AND ASSISTANT COUNTY MEDICAL OFFICER FOR THE 

W,<:ST RIDING OF YORKSHIRE, ETC., ETC. 



Fifth Impression 




LONDON: W. B. CLIYE 

(ttnwrstfg ufortdf 

HIGH ST., NEW OXFORD ST., W.C. 



1919 



PREFACE. 



THE success of School Hygiene, which, was published in 
the early days of the medical inspection of school children, 
leads one to believe that a new book, brought up to date 
and containing a sufficient amount of physiological detail, 
would meet a real demand from students who have to start 
the study of the subject without any special training in 
physiology. 

The schemes of medical inspection outlined herein, and 
the views expressed upon various details of the work, are 
the result of experience in initiating the work in the West 
Eiding of Yorkshire, the Urban District of Handsworth 
(now part of greater Birmingham), and the County of 
Hampshire. 

Thanks are due to a large number of authors ' of books 
and papers on the subject, far too numerous to mention 
separately, and to the many readers, of School Hygiene who 
have written me making valuable suggestions for improve- 
ment. 

EOBEET AETHUE LYSTEE. 

THE CASTLE, WINCHESTER, 
March 19, 1912. 



EXTEACTS FEOM THE MEMOEANDUM 

ON 

MEDICAL INSPECTION OF CHILDEEN 

UNDER SECTION 13 OF THE EDUCATION (ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS) 
ACT, 1907. 

[Issued by the Board of Education, November 1907.1 

The Board are convinced that the work of medical inspection 
cannot be properly accomplished by medical men without assistance. 
The teacher, the school nurse (where such exists), and the parents 
o r guardians of the child must heartily co-operate with the school 
medical officer. In whatever way the system be organised, its 
success will depend, immediately and ultimately, upon the cordial 
sympathy and assistance of the teachers 

From what has been said it will be clear that the fundamental 
principle of Section 13 of the new Act is the medical examination 
and supervision not only of children known, or suspected, to be 
weakly or ailing, but of all children in the elementary schools, with 
a view to adapting and modifying the system of education to the 
needs and capacities of the child, securing the early detection of 
unsuspected defects, checking incipient maladies at their onset, and 
furnishing the facts which will guide Education Authorities in 
relation to physical and mental development during school life. . . . 

It cannot be doubted that a large proportion of the common 
diseases and physical unfitness in this country can be substantially 
diminished by effective public health administration, combined with 
the teaching of hygiene and a realisation by teachers, parents, and 
children of its vital importance 



CONTENTS. 



PAGE 

INTRODUCTORY 1 

PART I. 
THE SCHOOL. 

CHAPTER 

I. THE SITE or THE SCHOOL 15 

II. THE CONSTRUCTION or THE BUILDING 25 

III. LIGHTING AND HEATING 38 

IV. VENTILATION 56 

V. WATER SUPPLY AND SANITARY APPLIANCES 92 

VI. SCHOOL FITTINGS Ill 

PART II. 
THE SCHOLAR. 

I. INTRODUCTORY 126 

II. SKELETON. MUSCLES. BODY TRUNK ... ... ... 136 

III. BLOOD AND CIRCULATION. LYMPH 153 

IV. CARE or THE TEETH 169 

V. FOOD AND DIGESTION 180 

VI. HOW TO TAKE CARE OF THE BABY 207 

VII. RESPIRATION 214 

VIII. EXCRETION. PERSONAL CLEANLINESS 223 

IX. PERSONAL HYGIENE 238 

X. THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. MENTAL DEVELOPMENT ... 251 

XI. EAR. THROAT. VOICE. SMELL. TOUCH 273, 

vii 



Vlll CONTENTS. 

CHAPTER PAGE 

XII. THE EYES AND EYESIGHT 290 

XIII. POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES 315 

XIV. THE DAY'S WORK 350 

XV. ACCIDENTS AND EMERGENCIES , 364 



PART III. 
THE MEDICAL SUPERVISION OF SCHOOL LIFE. 

I. INTRODUCTION ... ... 381 

II. THE ORGANISATION OF MEDICAL INSPECTION 387 

III. FOLLOWING UP AND TREATMENT ... 408 

IV. GENERAL AMELIORATION 427 

V. COMMON AILMENTS AND CONDITIONS 442 

VI. EPIDEMIC DISEASES ' 460 

VII. SCHOOL CLOSURE AND DISINFECTION 482 

INDEX... , 490 



INTKODUCTOKY. 

Health at School. 

The Hygiene of School Life is of paramount impor- 
tance in connection with the subjects of Political Economy 
and the prosperity of the nation. It must be taken 
into consideration by all those who are in any way 
connected with the education of the young, and 
especially by the teacher, if real success is to be achieved. 
Its importance is equal to that of the hygiene of the 
nursery, and its responsibilities are even greater. Un- 
doubtedly, both subjects have been very much neglected 
in the past by all classes of the community, but recent 
events show clearly that an increased amount of official 
and public attention is being directed to the improve- 
ment of the health of the children. 

Vast amounts of public money are being wasted in 
education because the children are not in the necessary 
physical condition to assimilate the instruction they are 
given. Sir John G-orst says : " The children are underfed, 
stunted, and suffering from a large percentage of prevent- 
able diseases. To make these poor little creatures learn 
multiplication tables and do sums is as cruel as forcing 
an underfed horse to work." Another source of waste 
and the cause of much mental injury is the forced teaching 
of unsuitable subjects. The training of the average 
teacher is not calculated to supply adequate instruction 
upon such subjects as hygiene and general health, and it 
is disheartening to find as compulsory subjects those which 

PHY. HYQ. 1 



2 INTRODUCTORY. 

are not likely to be of any particular or essential use in 
instructing the ordinary Elementary school child and which 
leave the teacher still ignorant of knowledge that should 
be considered vital and important. 

Sound, common-sense elementary instruction in health 
subjects by medical men engaged in public health work 
should be given to all teachers during their training. At- 
tempts to teach such subjects by persons not fully trained 
may, in some instances, be merely useless, while in others 
they may occasionally be actually dangerous. When all 
teachers receive sound instruction of this kind it will be 
possible to hope for the systematic teaching of. the prin- 
ciples of hygiene in our Elementary schools. 

Instruction in Care of Infants, Hygiene, and Temperance. 

Very little definite instruction upon these subjects is 
being given, and it appears to be left to the option of the 
teacher as to whether such subjects should or should not 
be included among some lessons on nature study. When, 
therefore, the teacher has little or no interest in them, the 
children get no instruction. Of course, the reason alleged 
is that the time-table is already overloaded, but the reply 
to such an excuse should be that none of the subjects in 
the time-table can compare with these as regards permanent 
usefulness in after-life. It is apparently not realised by 
those who frame such time-tables that a child leaving 
school ignorant of the rules of a healthy life, without any 
information as to the relative values of foods, and entirely 
uninstructed concerning the vital functions, should be 
regarded as grossly uneducated. 

Radical changes in the instruction given to girls eleven 
years of age and upwards are necessary. At present girls 
leave school ignorant of simple and economical rules of pre- 
paring food, general hygiene and ventilation, of house- 



INTRODUCTORY. 3 

wifery, and the rearing and feeding of infants and children, 
and of practically all subjects that will be of vital import- 
ance to them during their lives. There is little opportunity 
for them to learn such subjects at home, because their 
mothers are equally ignorant. In the Memorandum on 
" The Teaching of Infant Care and Management in Public 
Elementary Schools," issued in November 1910, Sir Robert 
Morant says : 

" If girls and women could be taught how to take care 
of infants we might hope to diminish not only the high 
rate of infant mortality, but also the large amount of un- 
necessary ill-health and physical suffering caused by neglect 
in infancy and childhood. Education is concerned with 
the bodies as well as the minds of the scholars, and a prac- 
tical knowledge of the common conditions which affect 
health and physical efficiency is as necessary a part of the 
purposes of a school education as intellectual attainment. 
Some amount of such teaching ought certainly to be pro- 
vided for girls by the Local Education Authority, and this 
being the case, it is necessary to consider carefully what 
form exactly it should take, and in what way it should be 
connected up with the general work of the school. 

The ultimate aim of a State system of education for girls 
in the public Elementary schools should be to equip them 
in the best possible way for the duties which will fall to 
them in after life. What is commonly called book-learn- 
ing has in past years been too much regarded as the 
supreme purpose of our Elementary schools, and it is begin- 
ning to be widely realised that teaching given in these 
schools might with advantage be made more practical in 
certain directions, and that it might, especially in the case 
of the elder girls, be more definitely directed towards 
arousing interest in, and increasing the knowledge of, 
domestic hygiene, including infant care. 



4 INTRODUCTORY. 

Few of these girls have mothers who are in a position to 
give them an efficient training in home management, and 
the home conditions must often render it very difficult for 
this to be done. It is thus desirable to consider in what 
way this subject may be most appropriately and usefully 
taught at the school in order to supplement or correct the 
inadequate or inaccurate knowledge of domestic matters 
acquired in the home : remembering always that the train- 
ing should be of a two-fold nature, namely, a training in 
domesticity and a training in infant care, and that it must 
be designed not to replace but to stimulate and encourage 
teaching by the mother in the home. 

"It is the earnest hope of the Board in issuing this 
Memorandum that it may serve to arouse a keen interest 
in the subject amongst many who have not yet realised 
the opportunities and responsibilities of the Elementary 
Schools in this direction, and that it may also give useful 
guidance and direction to the many devoted workers who 
are already seeking to offer the great benefits of this early 
training to some of the elder girls in our Elementary 
schools." 

Early Injuries to the Body. 

It is during the dawn of life that lasting mental 
impressions are made, and the body so affected that 
the framework and delicate machinery of the future 
man is made or marred. These impressions may lead 
the child on to happiness and health or to unhappiness 
and disease. The form of the body, the shape of the limbs, 
the development of the organs, the cultivation of the 
senses, may be easily interfered with during childhood. 
How many infants are killed every week by improper 
feeding! How many curved spines are due to a wrong 
position of sitting in school ! How many eyes have been 



INTRODUCTORY. 5 

injured by small print, fine stitches, bad lighting, or 
holding the book at a wrong distance ! How many lives are 
mined by the effects of preventable disease caused by bad 
ventilation or the absence or inadequacy of medical super- 
vision and inspection ! 

It is important to point out that considerable improve- 
ment in the health of the children could be produced with- 
out the expenditure of any great amount of money. In 
fact, many of the improvements cost nothing at all. At 
most schools, for instance, open-air teaching is possible 
on many days during the year, and requires only the en- 
thusiasm of the teacher, supported by the sympathetic 
consideration of the Education Committee, to introduce it 
as an almost every- day occurrence during the summer. 
The alterations in the school teaching and time-table 
would, similarly, cost nothing, but the abolition of fine 
work for children under seven, and the introduction of 
sound teaching of hygiene, cookery, and other subjects of 
vital importance to the children when they have left school ,. 
would result in a considerable improvement in the physical 
condition of the race. 

Most schools are provided with means for ventilation 
which, if used thoroughly and intelligently, would keep 
the rooms fairly well ventilated. Owing, however, to the 
carelessness and lack of interest on the part of the teachers 
it is common to find the atmosphere in the rooms unneces- 
sarily foul. By stimulating the interest of the teachers and 
by improving their training in these important subjects it 
would be possible to make the schools much healthier. 

Similarly, the attendance of children of five years and 
under means the addition of considerable and unnecessary 
risks to those inevitably associated with schools, particu- 
larly in connection with injury to sight and the possibility 
of damage or death from some infectious disease. 



6 INTRODUCTORY. 

Infantile Mortality. 

The alarming mortality among infants and children is 
strikingly illustrated by Farr, who follows the progress of 
1,000,000 children. Out of a million, nearly 150,000 die 
during the first year of life. At the end of the second year 
nearly 210,000 are dead. There are only about 730,000 
survivors at the end of five years, and these are reduced to 
700,000 during the following five years. At the end of 
fifteen years the total number of deaths has amounted to 
almost 310,000. 

There is no doubt whatever that these figures could be 
enormously reduced by greater attention to the teaching 
of hygiene. For instance, although thorough instruction 
in health subjects and perfect hygiene surroundings would 
not directly affect the infants under five years of age, yet 
the ultimate effects would undoubtedly result in the future 
diminution of this extraordinary death rate. This desirable 
result would be brought about chiefly by first effecting an 
improvement in the physique of the children at present at 
school: these will be the fathers and mothers of the next 
generation, and their children will not only share in this 
physical improvement but will also be more carefully 
reared if the instructions received at school have been 
given in such a way as to produce a lasting impression. 

The explanation of the failure at present is that we have 
lost sight of the essentials of education. Surely the most 
essential part of education should be a knowledge of the care 
of the body, the simple means of maintaining health, the 
avoidance of ill-health and disease, and the care of children. 
It is only by improving educational methods and making 
people really interested in themselves and their children 
that improvement in infantile mortality can be brought 
about. Improvement in sanitary conditions in towns and 
the surroundings of people can never bring about more 



INTRODUCTORY. 7 

than a very slight decrease in infantile mortality. It is 
often stated that people cannot be made temperate by Act 
of Parliament. It is much more true to say that people 
cannot be made healthy by Act of Parliament or by bene- 
ficent by-laws of towns. Many people put into sanitary 
houses amid the best of surroundings will live in a most 
disgusting way, and the health of infants reared by them 
is very little better than in the worst slum of a town. 

Non-essential subjects are being piled into the already 
overloaded time-table, and when it is suggested that the 
essential subjects of the health and the care of the children 
should be taught the teachers exclaim : " How can we find 
time for them ? " The only way will be to prune severely 
and cut down the present list of subjects and restrict our- 
selves to essentials. 

The good lady's contention that she ought to be con- 
sidered an expert in the care of children because she had 
already buried fourteen of her own might be paralleled by the 
present-day " educational experts " who, in proof of their 
knowledge and of the success of their system, might 
claim : 

(1) That a large percentage of children are perma- 
nently injured and handicapped for life by the 
present school conditions ; 

-(2) That most children leave school in appalling 
ignorance of such essential matters as the care 
of their own health and the proper care of 
children ; and 

(3) That the average child leaves school with a 
smattering of a variety of non-essential subjects 
which it forgets altogether soon after its school 
life is finished. 

The teaching of hygiene must be on sound practical lines. 
At present there is an absurd lack of appreciation of the 



8 IffTRODtTCTO&T. 

necessity for knowledge to be available and applicable to 
every-day life. If hygiene is properly taught in schools 
the constant opportunity to use such knowledge would 
prevent it being forgotten. Can we say as much of the 
present educational equipments of the average elementary 
school child ? 

Theory of " Survival of the Fittest." 

It is sometimes asserted by apparently intelligent 
people that this infantile mortality is a good thing ; that 
it weeds out from the masses the weak, the delicate, and 
the diseased, and leaves behind the stronger and better 
developed of the population; that it eliminates the un- 
healthy, and is a benefit to the rest of mankind ; and that 
it therefore gives a teacher a better material to work upon. 

Fallacies involved. 

The argument is unsound. Leaving out of the question 
the morality of the result, there might be something to be 
said for it if the unhealthy conditions acted injuriously 
upon the weakly members of the community alone. But 
it is certain that the unhealthy surroundings at home and 
at school, and improper feeding and treatment during 
infancy and childhood, not only serve to kill off those who 
start life hampered with either actual disease or weak 
constitutions, but also lower the vitality and the resisting 
power of those who were originally perfectly healthy, and 
these, if they survive so long, grow up into men or women 
of indifferent physique. These injured children, moreover, 
are exceedingly poor material for the teacher and can 
never compete intellectually or physically with their more 
fortunate schoolfellows. Another result of these consti- 
tutional injuries that are received during infancy is that 
such children offer very small resistance to epidemic 
diseases. Schools in districts where the physical standard 



INTRODUCTORY. 

of the children is low are most likely to be nearly emptied 
during any severe epidemic. The death rate at such 
times and among such children is always abnormally high. 

Suggested Remedies. 

The question that naturally arises is, What can be done 
to stop this dreadful slaughter of the innocents and this 
enormous depreciation of national physique ? The only 
hope appears to be in the direction of the schools. First 
the surroundings of the child when at school should be 
hygienically perfect. This will, at all events, help it to 
appreciate part of the value of its instruction on such 
matters. What impression is likely to be made on a child 
when the teacher gives a lesson on ventilation in an over- 
crowded stuffy class-room ? Is such a child likely to advo- 
cate the open bedroom window at home? The health 
of the child is undoubtedly improved by perfect school 
hygiene. 

Next is the proper training of all teachers in sound 
hygienic principles and the care and feeding of infants, 
so that every one of them will be able to give his 
or her class correct instruction. Both boys and girls 
should receive this instruction. School impressions often 
last throughout life, but the feminine mind is notoriously 
conservative and there is always the possibility of a girl, 
in after-life, managing her home and rearing her children 
on precisely the same lines as her mother did before her. 
Boys, on the other hand, if hygienic truths are sufficiently 
impressed upon them, are much more likely, when they 
get homes of their own, to see that such principles are 
carried out with regard to their house and their children. 
The effect would therefore be a tendency towards a sub- 
stantial improvement in the national physique. 

As a matter of fact great changes would be quickly 



10 - INTRODUCTOEY. 

produced in many of the homes if the children were pro- 
perly instructed in cleanliness and general hygiene while 
at school. Improved cleanliness at home naturally follows 
when personal tidiness and cleanliness are insisted upon at 
school. " Slums " can only be prevented by eliminating 
the slum-maker. So long as the " slum-maker" continues 
to flourish, any collection of houses can be turned into a 
slum. The " housing problem " is not so simple as some 
well-meaning enthusiasts would have us believe. It seems 
almost incredible to believe that there is at present no 
systematic teaching of hygiene in the elementary schools in 
this country. The teaching of hygiene is made compul- 
sory by education laws in America and by a decree of 
Parliament in Sweden. Also, in Denmark, Holland, and 
Italy hygiene is systematically taught. 

In fact a considerable revision of our elementary school 
" education " is urgently necessary, particularly for girls. 
No one can say that the present system has not been 
given a fair trial. Thirty years have elapsed since com- 
pulsory education was introduced, but it has not proved 
to be an unqualified success. As a writer in the British 
Medical Journal says : " Under the head of knowledge of 
common phenomena of the external world Nature study is 
nearly always taken. Week after week children pull to 
pieces flowers, or are taught about the germination of 
seeds ; no doubt this is useful and interesting by way of 
cultivating a child's artistic tendencies and of exercising 
its memory in remembering scientific names of the parts 
of a plant. But to the children of London and other great 
towns, who seldom have the happiness of seeing a flower, 
it can only be regarded as waste of time, since this teach- 
ing is given at the expense of such vitally important sub- 
jects as mental, moral, and physical hygiene. 

"The present generation of mothers have all passed 



INTRODUCTORY. 11 

through the school curriculum, and their school training 
should be reflected in the upbringing of their children. As 
a matter of fact the grossest ignorance of matters bearing 
on daily life is manifested. It is well recognised that the 
cause of most of the degradation among the people is 
rather ignorance than poverty. Many a family has enough 
money to spend, but the women do not know how to 
expend it wisely. They are ignorant of the properties of 
food, of economical housekeeping, and of the management 
of a family. They may leave school able to read and write, 
and recite Tennyson, and sing glees, and pick flowers to 
pieces ; but they have not learnt the degradation of send- 
ing their children to school in ragged clothes, with dirty 
skins, heads swarming with vermin, and often, in conse- 
quence, a mass of sores, with which hands and faces be- 
come inoculated." Such an indictment should surely be 
sufficiently powerful to stir even English public opinion. 
Also in all matters of personal hygiene there exists the 
greatest ignorance. Take the teeth for example. Practi- 
cally all the poorer classes give no attention whatever to 
these important structures, neither towards preventing 
decay nor arresting it. No man or woman among them 
dreams of ever cleaning teeth or having a tooth stopped. 
The usual procedure is to wait until the tooth is badly 
decayed, and then, if it becomes very painful, to get 
it extracted. The importance of the care of the teeth is 
dealt with elsewhere, and so it is only necessary here to 
state that it is a subject intimately associated with the 
well-being and physical fitness of the race. 

The chief aim of our elementary teaching should be to 
produce in the children a desire to lead clean wholesome 
lives and to possess vigorous healthy bodies. The instruc- 
tion given should be of such a nature as will enable them 
to satisfy so desirable an ambition. 



12 INTBODXJCTORY. 

Children Under Five. 

The attendance of children under five years of age 
appears to be undesirable, as its educational value appears 
to be very doubtful, while, on the other hand, it involves 
unnecessary and serious risk to health. The exclusion of 
these children from school was very ably advocated by Dr. 
Newsholme in 1902, and again in 1907, but, unfortunately, 
it is still quite common in many schools to find them in 
attendance. In the Education Code of 1905, a memoran- 
dum by Mr. Morant states that there is a mass of evidence 
to prove that a child who does not attend school before six 
years of age or more will in general compare favourably at 
a later age with a child whose attendance began at an 
earlier age. There appears to be little doubt that the 
admission of these children has been permitted partly on 
account of parents who find it convenient to get rid of 
them, and partly on account of teachers who desire to 
increase the school attendance. 

The educational uselessness of school attendance under 
five years of age appears to have been abundantly confirmed 
by official documents issued by the Board of Education. In 
addition to the one already quoted, there are others stating 
that teaching, either in the ordinary way or by means of 
kindergarten occupations, is undesirable for children 
under five, and that to attempt formal teaching will almost 
inevitably mean for some of the children either restraint or 
over- stimulation. Whatever training is advantageous for 
children under five is not the kind of training that could 
best be given in a school. If the home is satisfactory, 
then such training can be most effectively acquired there, 
while if unsatisfactory, the necessary care is best obtained 
by the provision of creches in charge of nurses. 

On the other hand, there is no doubt whatever that 
writing and reading for children under five, or even under 



INTRODUCTORY. 13 

six years of age, is dangerous, and likely to cause permanent 
injury to the partly- developed eye. Damage done at this 
age is never recovered from. 

Dangers from too Early Attendance at School. 

(1) The dangers of excessive restraint on the one hand, 
or over-stimulation on the other, have already been re- 
ferred to. 

(2) The possible damage to eyesight by attempting to 
do near and fine work, such as reading from books and 
writing on slates or paper, is now so well known that it 
should only need mention here. 

(3) It appears to be undesirable that children under five 
should run the risk of injury from breathing the polluted 
atmosphere of the ordinary schoolroom. There is no doubt 
that the atmosphere of the average schoolroom is much 
fouler than that of the average house, and probably 
children under five, or even under six or seven years of 
age, are in many instances permanently injured by this 
exposure to injurious surroundings. 

(4) The experience of every school medical officer is that 
most of his trouble with regard to the spread of infectious 
disease is started by these young children. After the age 
of six the susceptibility to measles and whooping cough 
rapidly declines, as well as the fatality among those affected. 
Similarly in the case of diphtheria and scarlet fever the 
fatality among those affected declines after the age of five. 
There is evidently, therefore, great advantage to be obtained 
by postponing the attendance until over five or six years of 
age. The presence of these susceptible infants means a 
very considerable increase in the likelihood of a very serious 
outbreak of infectious disease among the scholars. It is a 
matter of common knowledge that attendance at school 
increases the risk of infectious diseases being imported 



14 INTRODUCTORY. 

into homes, and Dr. Newsholme has pointed out that if 
children were not admitted to school until over five years 
of age the results would be that 

(a) Fewer families would become infected, and 

(6) The children of these families still uninfected would 
become infected on the average at a higher age, with the 
result that fewer deaths would occur. 

The only valid reason that can be urged with regard to 
the attendance of these children at school is the fact that 
if the mother goes out to work there is the difficulty in 
the minding of these children, and that older children 
would be kept at home to attend to them. In many 
districts, however, the proportion of the women going 
out to work is not large, and the above reasons lose a 
great deal of their strength. 

In other countries the age of compulsion for school 
attendance does not begin until the child is either six or 
seven years old, and England appears to be almost alone 
in allowing children to attend school before the ages when 
compulsory attendance begins. 

Medical Inspection in Schools. 

In this country the general work of medical inspection 
in schools began with the passing of the Education (Ad- 
ministrative Provisions) Act, 1907. In the same year a 
Medical Department of the Board of Education was estab- 
lished and Dr. George Newman, a well-known Medical 
Officer of Health, was appointed Chief Medical Officer. 
This appointment was followed by the issue of a Memo- 
randum on Medical Inspection which placed the subject on 
the firm basis of general public health. 



PART I. 

THE SCHOOL. 



CHAPTER I. 



THE SITE OF THE SCHOOL. 

IT must be clearly understood that schools are provided 
for that part of the population which is peculiarly sus- 
ceptible to the influence of bad hygienic surroundings, 
and it is therefore especially necessary that the site, the 
building, and the general conditions of a school should 
be as nearly perfect as possible. But is this rule usually 
followed? Unfortunately sites are often chosen which 
would certainly never be selected for private residences, 
and, as a matter of fact, are undesirable from many points 
of view. 

In selecting a site the chief points to carefully examine 
are: 

(1) The conditions as to natural drainage, and the 

ordinary level of the ground water. 

(2) The nature of the soil and subsoil. 

(3) The aspect and elevation. 

(4) The surroundings. 

The importance of the first two conditions can be made 
clear by considering the kinds of soil, the usual arrange- 
ment of soils and rocks, and the ground air and ground 
water. 

Soil. 

A subdivision of the soil into surface soil and subsoil 
is generally recognised, and is convenient. The upper layer 

15 



16 THE SITE OF THE SCHOOL. 

is composed partly of inorganic materials from the sub- 
soil below and partly of organic matter of animal and 
vegetable origin. This layer swarms with bacteria of 
various kinds. Some of these are known as nitrifying 
bacteria and are of the utmost importance, inasmuch as 
they convert waste nitrogenous material into salts of am- 
monium and ultimately into nitrites and nitrates. The 
subsoil is purely inorganic and contains no bacteria. It is 
formed by the gradual breaking up of the rock below. 
The term rock is of wide significance. It includes granite, 
slate, sandstone, clay, limestone, chalk, etc. The soil of 
every locality should therefore be merely the decayed upper 
surface of the rocks beneath, together with decayed and 
decaying animal and vegetable matter, but the action of 
rain and other forces causes the removal of material to a 
greater or less distance from its source, so that in many 
instances a soil derived from one rock is laid upon a totally 
different kind of rock. 

Another convenient and important classification of soils 
is obtained by their action in preventing or allowing the 
percolation of water through them. Soils which allow 
water to pass readily through them are called porous 
or pervious, while those which prevent the passage of water 
are called impervious. Porous soils include sand, gravel, 
chalk, sandstone. The commonest impervious soil is clay, 
which, although it allows practically no water to pass 
through it, absorbs water and remains damp for long 
periods. 

Ground Water. 

In most districts there is a layer of porous soil on the 
surface. Below this, at variable depths, is an impervious 
layer. The rain falling on the surface soil will percolate 
downwards until it reaches the impervious layer, on the 



' THE SITE OP THE SCHOOL. 17 

surface of which it will form an underground river. This 
collection of water, or underground river, resting on an 
impervious layer is called ground water. It is in constant 
movement, always flowing towards the nearest stream or 
towards the sea. 

The level of this ground water is the depth of the water 
in shallow wells in the neighbourhood. This level is liable 
to fluctuation, being raised, for instance, by a heavy rain- 
fall. It may be lowered by deepening and clearing out 
neighbouring watercourses, or by making fresh channels, 
whereby the rapidity of its flow may be increased. For a 
healthy site the level of the ground water should be more 
than 10 feet below the surface of the ground. 

Ground Air. 

The permeable soil, above the level of the ground water, 
contains quantities of air, varying according to the nature 
of the soil. All soils contain air, and the actual percentage 
depends upon the looseness, or otherwise, with which its 
particles are packed together. The porous soils such as 
gravels, sands, and sandstones can hold considerable 
volumes of air, even up to 50 per cent. 

The composition of ground air varies according to the 
nature of the soil and the depth below the surface. It 
differs from ordinary air in the following particulars : 

(1) It contains a much larger percentage of carbon 
dioxide. The amount varies from '2 per cent, to 
8 per cent., the latter figure representing the 
proportion in the ground air from gravelly soils 
at a depth of about 10 feet. This carbon 
dioxide is produced in two ways. Part is formed 
by the oxygen in the air combining with carbon 
derived from various animal or vegetable sources, 
and a further quantity is produced, by the action 
PHY. HYG. 2 



18 THE SITE OF THE SCHOOL. 

of putrefactive micro-organisms, from the oxygen 
of organic substances and of nitrates in the 
soil. 

(2) It contains less oxygen than ordinary air. This 

is due to the fact that part of the oxygen is used 
in producing carbon dioxide. 

(3) It contains a greater quantity of organic and other 

gases. Marsh gas may be present as a result of 
the decomposition of certain organic substances. 
Occasionally sulphuretted hydrogen is found in 
ground air. 

(4) It may contain great numbers of bacteria. 

The amount of nitrogen in ground air is about the same 
as in ordinary air. It is an undoubted fact that if large 
quantities of this air gain access to a house or a school it 
is liable to produce serious injury to health. The presence 
of ground air in houses in towns is, for instance, probably 
one of the chief predisposing causes of diphtheria. 

Movements of Ground Air. 

The subterranean atmosphere is in continual move- 
ment. These movements are produced chiefly in four ways. 
These are : 

(1) Any variation in the level of the ground water 

will cause movement of the ground air above it. 
Thus a heavy rainfall will be followed by a 
sudden rise in the level of the ground water and 
this will force out large quantities of ground air. 

(2) The outside air and the earth are nearly always at 

different temperatures. When these differences 
are greatest the widest range of movements of 
the ground air will occur. In autumn and winter, 
for instance, the soil is warmer than the air, and 
the ground air will therefore escape into the 



THE SITE OF THE SCHOOL. 



19 



atmosphere, and the colder atmospheric air will 
enter the pores of the soil. 

(3) The above result is most marked when a small 
area of ground is covered by a house or school, 
and especially when the surface of the soil out- 
side the house is ice-bound or macadamised, as 
it is in large towns. Under such circumstances, 








Fig. 1. 

when the temperature inside the house is very 
much higher than that outside, the aspirating 
effect of fires, chimneys, and ventilation outlets 
will tend to draw large volumes of ground air 
from the soil unless the site is covered with a 
substantial layer of concrete. In towns the 
ground air is usually mixed with coal gas, and 
cases are recorded where the inhabitants of the 
house have been poisoned by air thus drawn 
from the soil. 

(4) Small movements of ground air are also produced 
by variations in the barometric pressure : on the 
days of low pressure the ground air escapes from 
the soil. Other factors include the action of 
wind in sucking out the air from the soil, as well 
as in forcing air into the strata which are opposed 
to its path. 



20 THE SITE OF THE SCHOOL. 

The upper layers of the earth may therefore be compared 
to a huge lung alternately expelling and taking in air. 

Influence of Soil on Health. 

1. Damp. The dryness or otherwise of a site depends 
mainly upon the rapidity with which the rain water can 
run off or through the soil, together with the depth of the 
ground water. The best site is undoubtedly a gravelly 
soil of considerable depth, and on a slight slope. One of 
the worst kinds of site, on the other hand, would be a 
shallow layer of gravel resting upon a horizontal layer of 
clay : such a layer would always be water-logged. Im- 
permeable rocks, where the water runs readily away, and 
also chalk and sandstone, of considerable depth, are dry 
and healthy. Undesirable soils include marl and clay, 
which are damp ; peat soils, which contain a large amount 
of organic matter ; and made soils. 

It has been shown conclusively that an intimate con- 
nection exists between damp soil and all lung diseases, and 
it is extremely probable that damp is an important factor 
in the production of rheumatism, catarrh, neuralgia, 
throat affections (including diphtheria), and also favours 
the spread of measles and whooping cough. At Ely and 
Salisbury, for instance, the death rate due to consumption 
wras reduced by fifty per cent, by efficient drainage of the 
soil, and a consequent lowering of the level of the ground 
water. It has already been stated that no site can be con- 
sidered satisfactory where the level of the ground water is 
within 10 feet of the surface. If the soil is damp, the 
entire site below the foundations should be drained by lay- 
ing unglazed agricultural pipes, with open joints, at the 
bottom of trenches filled with stones or gravel. 

2. Made Soils. Excavations made for the purpose ot 
removing gravel, clay, sand, etc., are usually filled after- 



THE SITE OP THE SCHOOL. 21 

wards with all kinds of rubbish. Such rubbish is sure to 
contain more or less organic matter, and this will exist in a 
state of putrefaction for years, rendering impure the air 
around and inside the building. Such sites should always 
be avoided, if possible, and should, at all events, not be 
built upon within five years after the excavation has been 
completely filled in. Even then the layer of concrete ex- 
tending over the whole site, desirable in all cases, becomes 
an absolute necessity when building on such soil. 

3. Warmth of Soils. The warmth of any soil depends 
upon its nature and its dryness. Schiibler has classified 
the various soils, as regards composition, in order of merit 
for warmth as follows : 

Sand with some lime ...100 Clayey earth ...68 

Pure sand 96 Pure clay 67 

Light clay 77 Fine chalk 62 

Gypsum 72 Humus 49 

Heavy clay 71 

If the soil is damp the evaporation from its surface 
keeps its temperature continuously much lower than that 
of the air above. Consequently a damp site is always a 
cold one. 

4. Diseases associated with Soils. Occasionally the 
actual bacteria which produce certain diseases are found in 
the soil. Thus the bacilli of tetanus (lockjaw), malignant 
oedema, and anthrax have been often demonstrated in soil. 
Also the close connection that exists between damp soils 
and certain diseases such as consumption, rheumatism, etc., 
has already been mentioned. In certain other diseases, 
although the specific germ may be either unknown or has 
not been actually found in soils, the relation between 
particular states of soil and prevalence of the disease has 
been clearly made out. Some observers, for instance, have 
noticed a relation between the height of the ground water 



22 THE SITE OF THE SCHOOL. 

and epidemic outbreaks of typhoid fever and cholera. 
Epidemic summer diarrhoea, so fatal among children, has 
been conclusively shown to be associated with soils soaked 
with sewage or polluted in other ways. There also appears 
to be a relationship between epidemics of diphtheria and 
the fluctuations of the level of the ground water. Simi- 
larly yellow fever is associated with certain soil conditions. 
Malaria exists only where the soil is damp and marshy and 
capable of holding shallow pools of stagnant water. 
Thorough drainage of the soil, removal of jungle and dense 
vegetation, and tree planting have been successfully used 
to make malarious districts healthy. 

Aspect and Elevation. 

In choosing the site the questions of exposure to sun and 
to east or north winds should be considered. All rooms 




Fig. 2 
THE DOTTED LINE SHOWS ORIGINAL OUTLINE OF HILL. 

as far as possible should be exposed to direct sunlight 
some time during the day. Direct sunlight is probably 
Nature's most powerful disinfectant. Abundance of light 
is secured by selecting a southerly or south-westerly aspect. 
Hollows, whether on high or low land, should be avoided. 
The foot of a hill is undesirable. If it is proposed to place 
a school upon the side of a hill, the ground must not be 
dug out so that the cliff rises immediately behind. The 



THE SITE OF THE SCHOOL. 23 

excavated soil should be used to raise the site so as to leave 
a trench between the building and the cliff (see Fig. 3). 




Fi. 8. 
THE DOTTED LINE SHOWS ORIGINAL OUTLINE OF HILL. 

The soil should never rise immediately upwards from the 
building so as to allow superficial drainage or soakage to 
take place towards the foundations. There should be room 
for the free play of air on all sides. 

Surroundings. 

The building should not be situated near brickyards or 
any offensive works. It should be sheltered from cold 
winds as far as possible. Trees may afford valuable shelter, 
not only from cold winds but from fogs, but they must not 
be too close to the building, lest they impede the free cir- 
culation of air. They are best situated on the north and 
east sides. Everything which tends to allow stagnation of 
air in or around the school is to be avoided ; for this reason 
high walls and lofty buildings should be as far away as 
possible. A line drawn from the foot of the school build- 
ing to the top of the nearest wall or building should make 
an angle with the horizontal .of not more than 30. In 
order to avoid dust and noise the building should stand as 
far back from the street as possible. 



24 THE SITE OF THE SCHOOL. 

THE PLAYGROUND. 

The playground necessarily forms a large proportion of 
the site. In Germany it is customary to allow a space of 
three square metres for each child. A space of 25 square 
feet per head should be regarded as -a minimum, and 
probably 30 square feet is necessary. Part of the area 
should be under cover for play in wet weather. 

The covering of the surface of playgrounds is usually 
asphalt or gravel. A hard surface has serious disadvan- 
tages, chiefly the liability to produce injuries and the 
restrictions it necessarily imposes upon the kinds of games 
and exercises that are possible. If part of the area is 
covered with turf it is a great advantage. 

Open sheds, and trees planted in suitable positions, add 
greatly to the conveniences for open air teaching, and 
should always be borne in .mind by those responsible for 
the erection of the school. 



CHAPTER II. 



THE CONSTKUCTION OF THE BUILDING. 

In building a school all the usual rules that are followed 
in erecting a healthy modern house should be observed. 
The surface soil is removed and the whole site is then 
covered with a layer of concrete at least six inches thick 
and extending six inches beyond the footings of the out- 
side walls. Under the walls the concrete should be at 
least eighteen inches deep. The object of this layer of 
concrete is to prevent the passage of moisture and ground 
air from the ground beneath into the building. 

The walls are provided with damp-proof courses in order 
to prevent the possibility of moisture rising up from the 
foundations. The floors are best made of wood blocks 
laid upon concrete. Such floors are durable, clean, and 
noiseless, and are superior to all others. Where wood 
blocks are not used the floors should be constructed of 
narrow planks of close-grained wood such as oak or pitch- 
pine, and the edges should be " tongued and grooved " so 
as to fit one into the other. 

The junction of the wainscot with the floor should 
everywhere be completed by means of a rounded insertion 
which serves to cut off the usual corners into which dust 
so often collects. The substitution of glazed bricks for- 
wooden wainscoting is in many ways an improvement. 



26 THE CONST11UCTION OF THE BUILDING. 

Internal Wall Surfaces. 

Unless it is proposed to cover the walls with smooth im- 
pervious material, which may be periodically cleaned or 
painted, it is best to leave the walls uncovered by either 
plaster, paint, or paper, but it is necessary to use impervious 
hard bricks set in cement if this course is adopted Such 
wall surfaces can be easily kept clean and are very satis- 
factory. Glazed bricks or enamelled tiles are still more 
impervious and give excellent results. 

If the walls are plastered, a durable, smooth, non-porous 
variety should be selected. The plaster is then usually 
coloured by some colour wash, but more permanent and 
satisfactory results are obtained by painting and var- 
nishing the walls. The aim should be to produce a surface 
that will be almost non- absorbent and which can be readily 
cleaned. Ordinary non-painted plaster absorbs moisture 
and organic matters. Analysis of the plaster of a hospital 
ward has shown the presence of 46 per cent, of organic 
matter. In such cases there is probably a continuous 
fermentation going on, giving rise to ill-health. White- 
washing and colour-washing does not remove or destroy 
such accumulations, but merely covers it all over with a 
layer that looks clean. When such surfaces require cleansing 
they should be carefully washed, and some disinfectant 
should be added to the new colouring matter. 

Cornices, string courses, and projections of every kind 
upon which dust can gather should be ruthlessly pro- 
hibited on the walls or in any part of the room. The 
tops of the doors and windows should be levelled off, 
and indeed all kinds of irregularities taken away ; even 
raised thresholds should be avoided : everything that will 
interfere with a clean sweep is wrong and must not be 
permitted on any account. Woodwork where visible should 
be stained and varnished. 



THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE BUILDING. 27 

Colour of Walls. 

There are two points to be considered in connection with 
the selection of the colour for the wall. It is important 
to choose such a colour as will not tax the eye, and at 
the same time the colour must be such as will not absorb 
light to any appreciable extent. Thus, red colours absorb 
a large amount of light ; yellows absorb the least amount 
of light but produce greater fatigue and nervousness than 
the other colours; while greens stand next to yellows in 
their absolution of light and are markedly restful to the 
eye. As a rule the best results are obtained by adopting 
a light greenish gray, with a dull surface. The wall 
should be painted, so that it may be washed. 

Basements. 



There should be a basement under the whole building 
if possible. If the basement has two-thirds of its height 
above the ground level, and has no direct communication 
with the rooms above, it may be used for cloak-rooms. 
The floor should be of good asphalt or cemented concrete. 
Under no circumstance should such rooms be used for 
teaching purposes. Part of the accommodation here will 
be taken up by the heating apparatus, and by store-rooms. 
The furnace- room should be shut off from the remainder of 
the floor by stout iron doors which serve to isolate this part 
in case of fire. 

Cloak-rooms and Lavatories. 

Special rooms must be available for such purposes, 
although it is unlikely that the demand for a cloak-room for 
each class-room will be met yet. They should be entered 
from well lighted and ventilated lobbies, and not from any 
room used for teaching. Basements may be used, but only 
when no other space is available. They must be heated 



28 



THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE BUILDING. 



and ventilated so as to dry any wet clothes and prevent 
damp or smell from entering the school. Lavatory fit- 
tings should not be placed in cloak-room?. The practice 
of using parts of corridors as cloak-rooms is bad, not 
only because it disfigures the building, but also on account 
of the smell of damp clothes in wet weather. 

Cloak-rooms should be well lighted from the end, and 
gangways at least four feet wide should be made between 
the hanging rails. Pegs for hats and cloaks should be 




Fig. 4. 
METAL CLOAK-ROOM FITTINOB. 

numbered, placed iiot less than twelve inches apart, and 
not one above another. The floors should be of asphalt 
or cemented concrete, and the walls of glazed brick or tile. 
Glazed partitions should be used as far as possible. 

The best plan for arranging the clothes is by means of 
metal ranges usually steel coated with aluminium so 
made that there is a free circulation of air around the 
clothing, thereby ensuring rapid drying (see Fig. 4). 
The methods that are usually adopted do not allow such 
free circulation as is desirable. The usual plan is either to 
fix a wide shelf round the room with double coat hooks 
underneath, fifteen inches apart, or to form a series of 



THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE BUILDING. 



29 



compartments by vertical partitions, placed ten inches 
apart, with coat hooks fixed on each side. Additional 




Fig. 5. 

METAL CLOAK-ROOM FITTINGS. 



accommodation may be provided by fixing small shelves 
between the vertical partitions. The latter method appears 



30 



THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE BUILDING. 




Fig. 6. 
CLOAK-ROOM ACCOMMODATION. 



THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE BUILDING. 31 

attractive, but it is unsatisfactory on account of the ob- 
struction to the free circulation of air, resulting in delay 
to the drying process. 

Entrances. 

There should be a sufficient number of external doors 
to allow the school to be completely emptied in less than 
three minutes, and the doors should be wider than the 
stairs or passages leading to them. No school should 
have less than two entrances, and in mixed or dual 
schools there should be separate entrances for boys and 
girls. Where external doors have outside steps there 
should be a landing between door and steps. In all 
cases external doors should open outwards. 

Staircases. 

These should not be less than four feet and not more 
than six feet wide, and must not have more than fourteen 
steps to a flight. Where possible they should be con- 
structed with solid walls on both sides of the flight, and 
every staircase must have at least one external wall. They 
must be of fire-resisting materials, such as iron and slate, 
or steel and lead, and well lighted in every part. In 
schools of more than 150 scholars with upstair rooms 
there must be at least two staircases. In fact, two 
staircases should be considered to be the minimum in 
all cases. In mixed schools one staircase should be used 
by boys and another by girls. 

Numerous cases of children falling over banisters have 
led many authorities to insist that there should be no 
balustrade, but that the staircase should have walls on 
both sides. This arrangement may be considered less 
ornamental, but it is undoubtedly safer. On each side of 



32 THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE BUILDINQ. 

the staircase a double handrail should be fixed, the lower 
rail being at a level suitable for smaller children, and a 
higher one for the taller scholars. 

It is advisable that each staircase should be broken by 
a square or oblong landing, not only as affording a tempo- 
rary rest for the muscles, but also as guarding against 
accidents. 

The width of the steps (or treads) should be not less 
than eleven inches, and the height of one step above 
another (risers) should be six inches. 

General Plan. 

In order to secure proper organisation and supervision 
the various rooms should be grouped compactly and con- 
veniently. The usual modern plan is that of a central 
hall, round which the other rooms are ranged, and from 
which they are entered by doors^ the upper portions of 
which are glazed. If an upper storey is necessary the 
staircases and corridors should be on view from the central 
hall. Passages and corridors should be avoided as far as 
possible. Where unavoidable, they must be large, airy, 
and well lighted, and constructed of fire-resisting materials. 
In many cases there appears to be an inability to realise 
the importance of wide halls or corridors. Main corridors 
should be at least ten feet wide, but need not be more. 
Occasionally one meets schools with abnormally wide halls 
and corridors, simply representing waste of valuable space 
which might have been economically included in the school- 
rooms. 

The objection to the central hall type of school is 
that adequate ventilation by natural means is extremely 
difficult. In fact it is owing to this difficulty and the 
common adoption of the central hall type that mechanical 
ventilation has been forced upon school authorities, thereby 



GIRLS 




Ground Plan of School. 

Fig. 7. 

THE STAFFORDSHIRE TYPE OF ELEMENTARY SCHOOL. 
GBOUND PLAN SHOWING RELATIVE ARRANGEMENT OF THB THREE DEPARTMENTS. 

PHY. HTO. 33 3 



BOYS' PLAYGROUND 



GIRLS' AND INFANTS 
PLAYGROUND 




SECTION. 

Fig. 8. 

THE STAFFORDSHIRE TYFK OF ELEMENTARY SCHOOL. GROUND PLAN OF INFANTS 
SCHOOL, WITH DRILL AND PLAY HALL. ALSO SECTION OF CLASS-ROOM. 
34 



THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE BUILDING. 35 

greatly increasing the working expenses of the schools. 
Unfortunately this type of building has come to be re- 
garded as essential from an educational point of view. 
In the Staffordshire type of school, proposed by Dr. Reid, 
the difficulty has been boldly faced, and the central hall 
has been abolished. One semi-detached hall serves for 
three departments, and the class-rooms are designed in 
pavilion form with verandah communication. From a 
health point of view this type of school makes an important 
advance, while from an educational standpoint it is at 
least as satisfactory as the central hall type 

In this school there is ample provision for cross window 
ventilation, each window being provided with large hopper 
openings about five feet from the floor level, and sash 
openings above. Under ordinary conditions of weather 
the hoppers are kept permanently and fully open, while 
the sash openings allow for additional ventilation so far as 
weather permits, and for free flushing of the rooms 
during play and meal intervals. The heating is provided 
by low pressure ventilating radiators, each department of 
the school having an entirely distinct circuit. A mean 
heating surface of 17 to 20 feet per 1000 cubic feet is 
provided. The cost of such schools, excluding the cost of 
site, works out at about 10 per head for large 
schools and slightly more for smaller ones. The aver- 
age cost per head of the central hall type of school 
is 15. 

Dr. Reid has made a number of experiments comparing 
the possibility of ventilation in the pavilion schools 
with that in the central hall type. The results of 
these experiments show conclusively the superiority of 
the pavilion type of school, the atmosphere in a central 
hall type of school, without mechanical ventilation, being 
at least four times as impure after 1| hours occupation 



36 THE CONSTRUCTION OK THB BUILDING. 

as that of the pavilion school collected on the same day 
and under similar circumstances. 

All corridors should receive direct light from windows 
at each end and, if necessary, must be lighted from the 
adjoining class-rooms by windows fitted with clear ribbed 
glass. Ground glass is very unsatisfactory, as it absorbs 
a large percentage of the light. 

THE CLASS-ROOM. 

The best shape for the class-room is that of a rectangle 
with the greater sides about one-fifth longer than the 
smaller sides. The pupils should sit facing one of the 
shorter sides, i.e. with the long sides of the room on their 
right and left. Light is admitted on the left side. The 
necessary size is determined from certain factors. There 
should be 15 feet of floor space and 200 cubic feet of air 
space provided for each scholar. 

[The Board of Education give 120 cubic feet per head 
for London elementary schools, and 100 cubic feet per 
head for provincial schools, and 18 square feet for every 
scholar in secondary schools.] 

One of the commonest and most dangerous fallacies is 
that a smaller air space per head is required for primary 
schools than for secondary schools. Other factors to be 
considered are the distance for which the light admitted on 
the left will prove effective (this limits the width of the 
room to 25 feet) ; the distance at which the scholars with 
normal eyes can see writing on the blackboard ; and the 
distance at which the words of the teacher are still clearly 
audible. The latter factors limit the length of the room 
to about 30 feet. 

We thus arrive at the dimensions 30 feet by 25 feet. 
These give a floor space of 750 square feet, and allowing 



THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE BUILDING. 37 

13 feet for the height we have a room containing 9750 
cubic feet of air. This will accommodate 48 scholars if the 
allowance of 15 square feet of floor space and 200 cubic 
feet of air space is considered to be sufficient. This is a 
very large class for one teacher, and, in practice, a class of 
40 pupils should be considered a maximum. 



CHAPTER III. 



LIGHTING AND HEATING. 



SECTION I. LIGHTING. 

THE continued increase in short sight among children 
may be ascribed without hesitation partly to deficient and 
faulty illumination of school-rooms. In order to under- 
stand the principles of perfect lighting it is best to con- 
sider under what natural circumstances reading can be best 
accomplished. The most perfect ease in reading or 
writing, or in doing any fine work which imposes a certain 
strain upon the eyes, is obtained in the open air on a dull 
day. Under such circumstances there is ample light, but 
it is so well diffused that it appears to come from no point 
in particular and therefore casts no shadow. This repre- 
sents the ideal conditions. It is imitated in artificial 
lighting by concealed electric lights, the light from which 
is reflected to the ceiling and thence, well diffused, to all 
parts of the room. One of the most important rules is 
that the light should never fall directly upon the eyes. 
Illumination of the paper or object, with shading or pro- 
tection of the eyes, is the aim of good lighting. Such is 
attained in the lighting of billiard tables, or by reading- 
lamps. 



LIGHTING AND HEATING, 39 

Windows. 

Every part of a school-room should be fully lighted. 
The area of window glass must not be less than one-fifth 
the area of the floor in rooms used for teaching, and in 
other rooms not less than one-eighth ; so that a school- 
room 30 feet by 25 feet should have a window area of not 
less than 150 square feet. At least half the glass area of 
every window must be made to open for ventilation and 
for cleaning. In rooms used for teaching the windows 
should have square heads, be as near the ceiling as possible, 
and. of white glass only. There should be no wall space 
between the ceiling and the window. As a general rule 
one- third of the total light admitted by a window is fur- 
nished by the upper fourth. The height from the floor to 
the bottom of the window should be four feet in order to 
prevent reflections from the top of the desks, and so that 
the light should not be on a level with the eyes of the 
pupils. Provision for cross ventilation should be made. 
A convenient arrangement of windows is to have the lower 
portion fitted as double-hung sashes and the upper as a 
fanlight hung at the bottom to fall inwards. Another 
good plan is to arrange below the sashes a hopper opening 
that cannot be closed. If the top of the window does not 
open, or if the window does not reach up to the ceiling, 
there will be a layer of foul air continually occupying the 
upper part of the room. 

The light should, as far as possible, be admitted from the 
left side of the scholars ; but when a left light is impossible, 
a right light is next best, in which case the window sills 
should not be very low. The objection to a light from the 
right is that it casts a shadow from the pen over the writ- 
ing. The worst light is that which comes directly from the 
front of the scholar. This is very dazzling and is injurious 
to the eyes. Light from the back throws a shadow over 



40 LIGHTING AND HEATING. 

the work of the scholars, and is unpleasant and injurious 
to the teacher. Moreoyer, such a position decreases the 
power of the teacher of overlooking the scholars. The 
number of panes of glass to each window should be not 
more than four. The best plan is to have one pane for the 
upper sash and one for the lower. Such windows are more 
easily cleaned, and give more light than those with more 
panes. 

Abundant light is absolutely necessary, and it should be 
arranged to strike the desk at a considerable angle. A 
" dim religious " light is opposed to healthiness of mind, 
and tends to develop that hysterical state greatly admired 
and so much promoted by some schools of religious thought. 
It depresses a healthy mind, and impedes the vigorous 
action of brain matter. Light goes with knowledge, and 
assists to develop mental power. A dim light probably 
impedes the formation of the habit of private judgment, 
and leads the person under its influence to lean upon some- 
body else : to follow the lead of the teacher in blind obedi- 
ence ; but it does not tend to health. That which does not 
produce a perfect state of bodily health, or impedes its 
growth, cannot be good for any body of people, and this 
applies to children much more than adults. Lighting 
should be provided on a scale suitable for dull days : the 
mere passing of a dark cloud over the sun may decrease 
the illumination in a room by 66 per cent. 

Light should be diffused as equally as possible through 
the room : dark corners and dark ends should be got rid of 
by opening windows in the blank walls, or putting in sky- 
lights if the walls are not outside walls. 

Amount of Illumination. 

To test the sufficiency of illumination in a room the light 
upon the desk placed in the most unfavourable position 



LIGHTING AND HEATING. 41 

should be examined. It is usual to compare the illumina- 
tion at any place with that afforded by a standard candle 
placed one metre away. This is called a candle metre. 
The illumination upon the desk in the darkest part of the 
room should be at least fifty candle metres. If it is below 
the standard the eyes of the pupil will be subjected to an 
undue amount of strain. 



Windows with Obstructed Sky Line. 

Unfortunately many school buildings have some windows 
which give a poor light because the neighbouring walls and 
houses obstruct the sky line. Under such circumstances 
it is necessary to deflect the light into the room by means 
of special contrivances such as ribbed glass, or 
glass prisms. 

A series of tests on the diffusion of light through 
.ribbed and prismatic glasses were made by C. L. 
Norton at Massachusetts. The ribbed glass giving 
the best results was plane on one side and had 
twenty-one ribs to the inch on the other. The ribs 
should be set horizontally. Its cost is not excessive. 
It is claimed that for average- sized school-rooms 
with obstructed sky line the illumination can be 
increased, on dull days, by more than fifty per cent. 
if the upper sash is glazed with ribbed glass. 

Lighting by prisms is also very satisfactory in 
those cases where the windows open upon narrow 
streets or dark courts. Panes are made with pro- j^ 
jecting prisms on one side, the angles of the prisms 
varying for different cases. By refraction and QLA8B - 
reflection the light from the sky above is directed into 
the room. The most satisfactory method of using these 
prisms is so to arrange the angle that the light is 



42 LIGHTING AND HEATING. 

deflected to the white ceiling, thereby affording an ideal 
light 

The space between the windows should be as narrow as 
possible. Wide spaces produce bands of light and dark 
shadows which strain the eyes. The best arrangement is 
to use cast-iron mullions between the windows, so that 
brickwork is altogether unnecessary in these positions. 

In many schools the windows are seldom cleaned. Small 
panes should be avoided on account of the increased ten- 
dency to become dirty, as well as affording less light. 
Regular cleaning of the windows is as important as the 
scrubbing of the floors, 

Blinds. 

When the direct rays of a bright summer sun are pour- 
ing into a room the light may become dazzling. Direct 
sunlight should never fall upon a desk. Opaque shades, 
rolling from the bottom, should then be used in order to 
regulate the amount of light. The light entering near the 
ceiling is then evenly diffused. 

Artificial Lighting. 

The incandescent electric light is by far the best. As a 
general rule, three 16 candle-power lamps, placed eight feet 
above the floor, will be required for every 100 square feet 
of floor space. The glowing film itself, if visible, injures 
the eye, and some shield is therefore necessary. Most 
shields, ground glass for instance, greatly decrease the 
illumination. Shaw, of New York University, strongly 
recommends the adoption of the Holophane glass globe. 
This globe increases the effectiveness of the lighting at all 
points below the horizontal. They should be used as close 
to the ceiling as possible. G-as has the great disadvantage 
of giving a considerable amount of impurities to the air, 



LIGHTING AND HEATING 



43 



as well as using up the oxygen. One cubic foot of gas will, 
in burning, consume the entire oxygen of eight cubic feet of 
air, and also give to the air about half its volume of carbon 
dioxide as well as compounds of sulphur, which are par- 




Fig. 10. 

WKNHAM'S GAS-BURNIK. 

A, Burner and gas pipe. 

B, Inlets into room and globe for fresh air, a* shown by the arrows. 

C, Outlet for products of combustion. 

D, Outlet for foul air from room. 

ticularly injurious. An ordinary batswing burner, of 16 
candle-power, consumes 5J cubic feet of gas per hour, and 
is estimated to produce, in that time, 2*8 cubic feet of C0 2 , 



44 LIGHTING AND HEATING. 

and 7'3 cubic feet of water vapour, thereby polluting the 
air to about the same extent as would be produced by the 
process of respiration of five adults. By using Welsbach 
incandescent burners, in which incandescence is produced 
by placing a mantle composed of a network containing 
certain oxides over an ordinary Bunsen flame, it is possible 
to greatly increase the lighting effect and, at the same 
time, to diminish the quantity of gas consumed and the 
impurities produced. It also has the great advantage of 
producing a steady and white light. Its chief disadvan- 
tages are the intense glare of the unshielded light, and the 
small proportion of the light that is radiated downwards. 
These objections are overcome by using shaded inverted 
burners, or by adopting the Holophane globe which dif- 
fuses the light downwards. Special burners, such as the 
Wenham, are sometimes used with advantage. The flame 
is enclosed in glass globes, and the products of combustion 
are compelled to leave the room at once by a proper con- 
duit. The conduit passes into one of the flues, or directly 
out of doors into the open air. 

Mr. Priestley Smith, in speaking of the artificial lighting 
of schools, says : " The desks should be illuminated by a 
row of burners, placed not many feet above them, and 
somewhat to the left. Ground glass globes, which greatly 
diminish the intensity of the light, should be replaced by 
transparent chimneys for the sake of clearness and steadi- 
ness, and reflectors may be added with great advantage." 

SECTION II. HEATING. 

The heating of the school is, or should be, closely asso- 
ciated with its ventilation, and the subject will therefore 
be constantly alluded to in considering the question of 
ventilation. Heat tends to pass from warmer to colder 



LIGHTING AND HEATINO. 45 

bodies in three ways by conduction, by convection, and 
by radiation. 

Conduction. 

Heat passes from hot particles to cooler particles in con- 
tact with them by means of conduction. The passage of 
heat along solid bodies takes place solely by this method. 
Particles of air in contact with hot surfaces also become 
heated by conduction, and can pass on some of the he>t 
thus obtained to other particles in a similar manner. 

Convection. 

When a fluid is heated its molecules tend to become 
more widely separated, and its density decreases. Heated 
layers of air are therefore lighter than cooler layers and 
will accordingly rise, their place being taken by equal 
volumes of cool air, which in its turn becomes heated. 
The heated air, in rising, will lose some of its heat by 
conduction, so that a given volume of air may be quickly 
warmed by a combination of convection and conduction. 

Radiation. 

The heat of the sun, and of a fire, which warms objects 
at a distance without raising the temperature of the inter- 
vening air, is said to pass by radiation. Objects thus 
warmed may raise the temperature of adjacent air by con- 
duction, and of large volumes of air by conduction and 
convection. 

For school purposes we may consider the following 
methods as available for heating : 

I. Open Fires. 

This is the most popular method of heating in this 
country, but it cannot be recommended as the sole source 



46 LIGHTING AND HEATING. 

of heat for schools. They have the following disadvan- 



(1) They are very wasteful. Between 10 and 20 per 
cent, of the actual amount of heat that is produced is really 
used in warming the room, the 80 or 90 per cent, being 
wasted largely by the rush of heated air up the chimney. 
To prevent as much of this loss as possible the opening 
into the flue should be narrow and adjustable ; also the 
grate should be made with as little metal work and as 
much fireclay as possible. The bars beneath should be so 
close together as to allow small ash only to pass, and the 
bars in front should be narrow so as not to obstruct radia- 
tion. The back of the grate should slope over the- fire to 
deflect the heat into the room. The space under the fire 
should be shut off so as to allow no air to pass. In order 
to increase radiation the fireplace should be brought into 
the room as much as possible. The heat is also economised 
by building fireplaces against inside walls only. 

(2) Open fireplaces heat a room very unequally. On 
cold days one side of a room feels comfortably warm, while 
the side farthest away from the fire is very chilly. 

(3) They create a large amount of dust and ashes, 
and require a large amount of attention in stoking and 
cleaning. 

On the other hand the open fireplace possesses very 
important advantages, namely, the cheerful appearance 
and the efficient aid that it gives to ventilation. 

No system of warming can ever give such pleasant 
effects as those of an open fire. Nearly the whole of its 
heat is in the radiant form, and as a result the walls and 
furniture of a room are kept at a higher temperature than 
the air. Under such circumstances the body is surrounded 
with comparatively cool air, which is much more healthy 
to breathe than hot air, but the neighbouring objects, such 



LIGHTING AND HEATING. 



47 



as walls and furniture, are warmer. The result is that the 
body loses far less heat, by the process of radiation, than 
it does in a room filled with warm air but where the walls 
are cold. In a room heated by hot water pipes or warmed 
air, the walls not being heated in the 
same proportion, although the air may 
feel warm, the walls will remain cold, so 
that the heat of the body passes rapidly 
by radiation to the walls, and gives rise 
to a chill. 

Ventilating Grates. 

If open fireplaces are used they 
should always be of the Galton type in 
order to introduce a constant supply of 
warm fresh air. At the back of these 
grates, and surrounding the lower part 
of the flue, is an air chamber communi- 
cating on the one hand with the outer 
air, and on the other with the room. 
Fresh air enters the air chamber from 
outside, becomes warmed by contact 
with the hot back of the grate and the 
heated sides of the flue, and enters the 
room by openings placed either between 
the mantel-piece and the ceiling or just 
below the mantel- shelf. 

II. Stoves. 

These have certain advantages over open fires, being 
more economical, cleaner, and more uniform sources of 
heat. Moreover the best forms of stoves require very little 
attention. On the other hand they dry the air, giving rise 
to unpleasant sensations, and may actually cause a smell of 




Fig. 11. 

THK GALTON GRATI. 
a, Hot - air chamber 
surrounding flue ; i, 
opening for fresh air ; 
c, inlet into room. 



48 



LIGHTING AND HEATING. 




TOCHIMNC/ 



burning owing to the charring of the dust and organic 
matter in the air. Another unpleasant feature is the 
tendency of cast-iron stoves to give off carbon monoxide, a 
highly poisonous gas, to the air. This only takes place 
when the cast-iron is red-hot. For the purpose of ventila- 
tion they cannot compare with open fires. 

III. Gas Fires or Stoves. 

These are rarely used 
for school purposes except 
for small rooms which 
are occupied occasionally. 
The advantages claimed 
for them are that they are 
clean, easily regulated, and 
economical when the room 
is required at intervals 
only. It is important to 
remember that no stove 
of any kind is permissible 
unless it is fitted with a 
proper flue to carry off the 
products of the combus- 
tion. 

Ventilating Stoves. 

The most satisfactory 
form of stove is the ven- 
tilating stove, which de- 
serves much more general 

use. There are several varieties, but the principle is 
clearly shown in the accompanying diagram. Fresh air 
enters the room from outside and is warmed on the way 
by passing through a tube or chamber which is heated by 




Fig. 12. 

VENTILATING STOVE. 



LIGHTING AND HEATING. 49 

a gas flame (Bunsen burners). The air which is vitiated 
by the combustion of the gas is led either into the chimney 
or directly outside. 

IV. Hot-Water Pipes. 

The heating of buildings by hot water pipes may be 
accomplished in one of two ways ; viz. by the low pressure 
system or the high pressure system. 

Low Pressure System. 

The water is heated in a boiler in the basement. From 
the top of the boiler runs a cast-iron pipe, four inches in 
diameter, vertically upwards. This gives off branches to 
all the rooms. Each branch pipe goes round the room, 
and then returns by bending back under itself, finally 
uniting with the main return pipe which enters the boiler 
at the bottom. 

There is a continual circulation of water in such pipes, 
because the outgoing one is filled with hot water which is 
lighter than the comparatively cool water in the return 
pipe, such conditions being maintained by the heat of the 
boiler and the cooling of the water as it circulates through 
the pipes in the various rooms. A feed pipe from the 
cistern enters the return pipe and makes good any leakage 
or waste from evaporation. An escape for air or steam is 
provided at the highest point. The average temperature 
at which such pipes are maintained is generally between 
160 and 180 F. The pressure in the .boiler only exceeds 
the atmospheric pressure by the pressure due to the weight 
of a column of water whose height is the vertical distance 
between the boiler and the highest point of the system. 

Roughly speaking, it is usually found that about 12 feet 
of the 4- inch pipe are required for each 1000 cubic feet in 
a room in order to maintain a temperature of 65 F. 
PHY. HYG. 4 



50 



LIGHTING AND HEATING. 



High Pressure System. 

When water is heated while it is exposed to the ordinary 
atmospheric pressure it boils at 212 F. If the steam is 
prevented from escaping the pressure inside the closed 
vessel will be increased and the water will not boil until 
a higher temperature is reached. The greater the pressure 
upon the water the higher is the temperature at which it 
boils. The following table gives the boiling-point of water 
at different pressures : 



Pressure (in atmospheres) . 


Boiling Point. 


1 


212 F. 


1-4 


230 F. 


1-96 


248 F. 


2-67 


266 F. 


4-7 


302 F. 


9-9 


356 F. 


15-4 


392 F. 


27-5 


446 F. 



The high pressure system is composed of a single, 
continuous, closed pipe, made of -inch wrought iron, and 
with J-inch internal diameter. From to -^ of the entire 
length of the pipe is arranged as a coil in the furnace in 
the basement. The pipe is completely filled with water. 
From the coil in the furnace the pipe proceeds vertically, 
and goes round each room in turn and returns to the 
bottom of the coil. 

The water is usually heated to 300 F. (representing 
about four or five atmospheres pressure) . At the top of 
the system are fixed wider tubes, called expansion tubes, 
partly filled with air. These allow for the expansion 



LIGHTING AND HEATING. 



51 



of the water by the heat. About eight feet of this piping 
is equivalent, in its heating power, to 12 feet of the low 





Fig. 13. 

WENHAM AND WATKRS' HOT-WATER COIL. 

pressure piping. As a rule the results given by the 
system are not so satisfactory as those obtained by the low 
pressure system, owing to its liability to over-heat the air. 



LIGHTING AND HEATING. 



Moreover, unless the furnace receives constant attention 
the temperature of the pipes may alter very suddenly. As 
regards the danger from the high pressure the part in the 
furnace is the weakest, and a burst here would probably 
not do any great harm. 




Fig. 14. 
SECTION OF A RADIATOR INTRODUCING WARM FRESH Aia. 



No system of hot water or steam pipes is admissible 
unless proper inlets and outlets are provided for ventilation. 

A convenient method is to substitute for the 4-inch 
pipes and coils radiators composed of hollow columns con- 
nected below with an opening in the wall through which 



LIGHTING AND HEATING. 53 

air enters and, after passing through the radiator, is 
discharged into the room fresh and warm, as shown in 
Figs. 13 and 14. 

The Temperature of the Schoolroom. 

In a large majority of schools the temperature is kept 
too high in winter. The best temperature is 60 F. or just 
below, but any temperature between 56 F. and 60 F. may 
be considered satisfactory. Every schoolroom should be 
furnished with two or three thermometers. 

The temperature of a schoolroom should not be allowed 
to fall below 45 F. at any time, night or day, while the 
school is in session. If the walls get quite cold there is a 
difficulty in warming them again; whilst if the room is 
well ventilated by perflation after the class has separated, 
thoroughly cleaned up at once, as it ought to be, and the 
heating apparatus kept on at a lower temperature, the 
room need never get quite cold. The children, under such 
circumstances, are comfortable as soon as they enter the 
room on a cold winter morning, instead of shivering and 
being quite unable to take in the teacher's meaning, as is 
too often now the case. 

It should be hardly necessary to state that temperature 
must be the only guide as to whether it is necessary to 
commence heating the school. Also it is important to 
bear in mind that after the Christmas holidays the rooms 
should be opened, aired, and warmed several days before 
they are required. 

Comparison of the Various Systems of Heating. 

The following summary is given by Carnelley in his 
report to the Dundee School Board : 



54 LIGHTING AND HEATING. 

Open Fires. 
Advantages. 

(1) More cheerful. 

(2) First cost much less than hot-pipe systems. 

(3) Keeps air fresher than hot pipes, owing to draft up chimney. 

(4) So far as the Dundee schools are concerned, the temperature 

in the open fire schools was higher than those heated by 
other systems. 

(5) The rooms of these schools will probably need painting less 

frequently than those heated by other systems. 

Disadvantages. 

(1) Greater labour in service. 

(2) Slightly greater annual cost than stoves or steam-pipes or 

large hot- water pipes. 

(3) Unequal distribution of heat. 

(4) Air more highly charged with micro-organisms. 

Stoves. 
Advantages. 

(1) Smallest first cost. 

(2) Least annual cost. 

(3) Probably more effective heaters than open fires. 

Disadvantages. 

(1) Greater labour in service. 

(2) Require more attention than open fires. 

(3) More liable to smoke than open fires. 

(4) More liable to get out of repair than open fires. 

Hot Pipes. 

Advantages. 

(1) Less labour in service than either open fires or stoves. 

(2) The class is not disturbed as in the case of mending open fires 

and stoves. 

(3) More equal distribution of heat. 

(4) Air less charged with micro-organisms than when open fires 

are used. 

(5) On the whole the annual cost is probably slightly less than 

with open fires, but more than with stoves. 



LIGHTING AND HEATING. 65 

Disadvantages. 

(1) Not so cheerful as open fires. 

(2) First cost much more than in the case of open fires or stoves. 

(3) Air not so fresh as with open fires. 

Comparison of Hot-pipe Schools. 

(1) Small high-pressure pipes are cheaper in first cost than large 

low-pressure pipes. 

(2) In those schools examined the air was better in rooms heated 

by small high-pressure pipes than in those heated by large 
low-pressure pipes. 

(3) It takes longer to get up the heat with large than with small 

pipes. 

(4) Small pipes are less obtrusive in rooms. 



CHAPTER IV. 



VENTILATION. 

"ONE of the most important subjects connected with 
health at school is that which deals with overcrowding. 
' Too many children in the school ' is the impression which 
is upon the mind of every lover of fresh air as soon as he 
sets foot in a school the pupils of which have been assem- 
bled for an hour or two and have remained in the room 
all the time. One seldom goes into any school in the 
middle of working- time, especially in cold weather, without 
being struck with the fact that the air is too impure for 
perfect health. The impurity arises from overcrowding 
connected with a want of ventilation. These two subjects 
are mixed up very much together ; one school with a hun- 
dred boys or girls in it may have a much purer air than 
another of the same size with only fifty, because in the one 
case the products of respiration are rapidly removed, and 
in the other in a great measure retained. The question of 
floor space is an important one, but not nearly so important 
as that of ventilation." (Carpenter.) It is important to 
remember that the question of floor space or cubic space 
per head in no way affects the question of the quantity of 
fresh air per hour that it is necessary to provide. The 
effect of a large area of floor space is simply to delay the 
time when the air would become poisonous. Cubic as well 
as floor space is a delusion in various ways ; one room ten 



VENTILATION. 57 

feet high will ventilate better than another fifteen or even 
twenty, because in the one case the windows are carried 
up to the ceiling, and in the other there is seven or eight 
feet of wall between the top of the window and the 
ceiling itself. The age of the children will be a factor in 
the case, though not so great as is often represented ; for 
a child of six or seven requires nearly as much fresh air 
as one double that age. 



THE ATMOSPHERE. 

Ordinary fresh air has the following percentage com- 
position : - 

Nitrogen (including Argon 1%) ?9 

Oxygen 2O96 

Carbon Dioxide . . . . '04 

100-00 

There are also variable quantities of water vapour 
organic matter, ozone, oxides of nitrogen and sulphur, and 
sulphuretted hydrogen in the air ; the first substance being 
usually present, and the others in air under certain condi- 
tions only. There are also suspended particles in the air, 
composed of inorganic and organic materials, and various 
bacteria. 

Expired Air. 

Air that is breathed out of the lungs differs materially 
from ordinary air in its composition. Its percentage 
composition may be represented thus : 

Nitrogen (with Argon) 79 

Oxygen . . . . 16 

Carbon Dioxide . . 4*4 



58 VENTILATION. 

This shows that expired air has less oxygen and more 
carbon dioxide than inspired air. It also is saturated with 
water vapour, is warmer, and contains a considerable 
quantity of organic impurities. This organic matter is 
usually regarded as the most injurious of the impurities 
produced by respiration, although some recent investiga- 
tions are said to negative this statement. There is at 
present no reasonable ground to consider that the injurious 
effects of bad ventilation are not due to the organic con- 
stituents of expired air. 

School Air- 

The air in a schoolroom therefore will differ from 
ordinary air in many particulars which may be thus 
enumerated: 

(1) There will be more than -04 per cent, of carbon 
dioxide present in the air. Most of this excess of carbon 
dioxide will have been produced by respiration, but part 
may have been evolved as a product of the combustion 
of coal, coal gas, or lamps. 

(2) Organic matter from the lungs and skin will be 
present. This is probably the chief source of the offensive 
odour so obvious to anyone entering a badly ventilated 
room from the outer air. 

(3) There will be a decrease in the amount of oxygen, 
resulting in a lowering of the vitality. 

(4) A large increase in the quantity of water vapour 
will take place. This causes discomfort and interferes 
with the proper evaporation of moisture from the surfaces 
of the body. 

(5) The temperature is higher. This increases the 
discomfort caused by the excess of water vapour in the 
air. 

(6) Decomposition of organic matters upon the clothing 



VENTILATION. 59 

and the skin often occurs in schools, especially in poor 
districts, giving rise to offensive odours. 

(7) An increase in the amount of dust, or suspended 
impurity, is common in schools. These particles of dust 
are of the most varied composition, some of the commonest 
being scales of skin, hair, fragments of wool, cotton, silk, 
soot, and common salt, and include many forms of bacterial 
life, and there may be disease germs present. Dust, of 
itself, is injurious, and for this reason the use of crayons, 
which adds considerably to the quantity of dust, is not to 
be recommended. 

(8) There may be some special gaseous impurities present, 
such as carbon monoxide from coal gas, and oxides of 
sulphur, and other gases from the combustion of coal gas. 

Carbon Dioxide. 

The most constant of all these impurities is the carbon 
dioxide, and, as the estimation of the quantity of the gas is 
comparatively easy, it is usual to test the sufficiency or 
otherwise of ventilation by determining the percentage of 
this gas that is present. The method of estimation does 
not concern us here, but a simple test of the purity of the 
air is as follows : Take a stoppered bottle with a capacity 
of 10 oz. Fill it with the air to be tested by pumping 
through it by means of foot- bellows. Add ^ oz. of clear 
lime water, put in the stopper, and shake up. If the 
limewater is turned milky there is an excess of carbon 
dioxide present. This gives .a very rough and ready test 
only. Systematic examinations of the air of schools at all 
times of the day by the Education Medical Officer should 
be regarded as essential ; it is only by such tests that the 
ventilation of any school can be regarded as sufficient or 
otherwise. 



60 VENTILATION. 

One of the simpler but fairly exact methods of ascer- 
taining the amount of carbon dioxide in the air in a school 
is by the use of Scurfield's apparatus. This consists of a 
cylindrical aspirator holding two pints of water, and a rack 
carrying seven tubes which are filled to a given height with 
a weak baryta solution coloured pink by phenolphthalein. 
One tube is connected to the aspirator for each estimation. 
The aspirator is furnished with a vertical gauge divided 
into tenths, each division representing % 1 of the cubical 
contents of the aspirator. 

To use it the aspirator is filled with water, and connected 
with one of the tubes. Then the air is drawn through the 
baryta solution until the pink colour disappears. The 
amount of air required to do this is measured by the 
aspirator. If the experiment is made first in the open 
air and repeated in the different rooms of the school it is 
obvious that strictly comparative results will be obtained. 
In the school there will be more carbon dioxide present 
and a proportionally smaller quantity of air will be neces- 
sary to remove the colour from the liquid. Assuming that 
the outside air contains '04 per cent, of carbon dioxide, it 
is easy to calculate from the results of these experiments 
the amount of carbon dioxide in the air that has been 
tested. 

Permissible quantity of Carbon Dioxide. 

The amount of carbon dioxide in fresh air remains 
fairly constant at about '04 per cent. Any excess over 
this amount is regarded as an impurity. Thus, if a sample 
of air was found to contain '07 per cent, of carbon dioxide 
we should say that there was an impurity of '03 per cent, 
of tne gas. An impurity of *02 per cent, is usually re- 
garded as harmless, although a room containing this 
amount of impurity due to respiration smells slightly close 




Fig. 15. 

DR. SCURFIELD'S APPARATUS FOB DETERMINING THE AMOUNT OF CARBON DIOXIDE 
IN THE AIR IN A ROOM. 
61 



62 VENTILATION. 

to anyone entering from the fresh air. This amount is, 
therefore, called the " maximum permissible impurity," so 
that the maximum total percentage of carbon dioxide that 
may be allowed in air is '06 per cent. 

In crowded schoolrooms and in badly ventilated and 
crowded dwelling-rooms it is not uncommon to find -3 per 
cent, carbon dioxide, a result that is not surprising when 
one considers the extraordinary ideas that prevail as regards 
the necessary cubic space. 

Carnelley, Haldane, and Anderson have stated that the 
above maximum permissible amount of carbon dioxide 
should be considerably increased, and that for schools the 
limit of carbon dioxide should be '13 per cent., which 
represents an impurity of '09 per cent. If such standards 
are adopted irreparable injury will continue to be inflicted 
upon the children. 

Amount of Carbon Dioxide produced by Respiration. 

The average adult at rest produces '6 cubic feet of carbon 
dioxide per hour by respiration. Children produce larger 
quantities in proportion to their weight, and on an average 
three children of ten years of age produce as much carbon 
dioxide as two adults. 

The amount of carbon dioxide expired is increased by 
active work, and is influenced by diet, weight, and sex, but 
for school purposes '4 cubic feet of carbon dioxide per head 
per hour is a convenient basis for calculation. 

Amount of Fresh Air required. 

We may assume that '02 per cent, of carbon dioxide can 
be added to fresh air without causing it to be injurious to 
health. Also that the average child at school produces 
4 cubic feet of carbon dioxide per hour. The calculation 



VENTILATION. 63 

of the amount of fresh air required per head per hour 
proceeds as follows : 

02 cubic feet of carbon dioxide may be added to 100 

cubic feet of fresh air ; 
.*. '04 cubic feet of carbon dioxide may be added to 200 

cubic feet of fresh air ; 
.*. *4 cubic feet of carbon dioxide may be added to 2000 

cubic feet of fresh air. 

The standard adopted by law in some of the American 
States is 1800 cubic feet per hour. The above calculation 
shows that there should be supplied 2000 cubic feet of 
fresh air for each scholar per hour. If the cubic space 
allowed per head is 100 cubic feet, this amounts to com- 
pletely changing the air of the room twenty times per hour, 
which is a very difficult matter. If the space per head 
which is laid down as necessary earlier in this book, viz. 
200 cubic feet, is adopted the air will have to be changed 
ten times in the hour. Apart from special appliances for 
ventilation the air in a room usually changes once an hour 
through the walls and crevices of doors and windows, 
leaving the problem at changing the air nine times in the 
hour, or once every seven minutes. 

Organic Matter. 

The organic impurity in air is estimated with much more 
difficulty than the carbon dioxide, and it is therefore usual 
to estimate the quantity of carbon dioxide that is present, 
and to infer from these results how much organic matter 
must have accompanied the carbon dioxide. This is gener- 
ally reliable because the organic matter appears to be an 
invariable accompaniment of the carbon dioxide produced 
by respiration, and so the quantity of carbon dioxide in 
the air of a room may be taken as a fair index of its purity. 

The detection of the organic matter is comparatively 



64 VENTILATION. 

simple. If a large amount of the air is drawn through 
some distilled water the organic impurities are retained by 
the water, and, if kept a short time, quickly decompose 
and evolve a very offensive smell. Or the air may be drawn 
through strong sulphuric acid, which chars the organic 
matter and becomes brown. Still another method is to 
draw the air through water rendered pink by acidified 
permanganate of potash. Organic matter soon removes 
the bright pink colour. 

Effects of Bad Ventilation. 

Living in a badly ventilated room for a few hours pro- 
duces drowsiness and headache, a sense of oppression and 
discomfort, slowing of the heart's action, and quickening 
of respiration, and interferes greatly with the efficiency of 
the teacher and the scholars. The power of concentration 
on the part of the scholars is also greatly decreased. Un 
fortunately the evil does not stop here. A lowering of the 
vitality results, and there is an increased tendency to 
contract diseases of all kinds. Under such conditions 
consumption very often occurs, and infectious diseases, 
when once started, spread very rapidly. Anaemia, loss of 
appetite, and impairment of nutrition commonly result 
from bad ventilation. A striking illustration of the rela- 
tionship between foul air and consumption is given by the 
following statistics contained in the report of the Army 
Sanitary Commission. Foot Guards had been allowed 331 
cubic feet of space per man in their barracks, and the 
death-rate from consumption among them amounted to 
13*8 per 1000 ; while the Horse Guards, with a cubic space 
of 572 feet per man, showed a mortality of only 7*3 per 
1000. On increasing the cubic space per head there was a 
very marked diminution of the mortality from all causes. 
Under the greatly improved conditions the death-rate from 



VENTILATION. 65 

consumption in the Army at the present time is slightly 
below that of the male civil population at the same age, 
whereas fifty years ago it was in notable excess of that 
amount. The frequent occurrence of the disease in animals 
kept in confinement serves as another illustration of the 
relationship that undoubtedly exists between consumption 
and the breathing of a vitiated atmosphere. 

Hamer says, " The evidence which has accumulated in 
recent years as to the dissemination of certain diseases, 
particularly diphtheria, scarlet fever, and measles, in school 
class-rooms, is quite conclusive as to the risk incurred by 
bringing together a number of children within a confined 
space, unless the most thorough precautionary measures 
are undertaken with a view to the detection and exclusion 
of sufferers from the maladies referred to." As a matter 
of fact the absolute exclusion of every one of these cases is 
not possible at present, and probably never will be. But 
the risk of contagion would be greatly decreased if the 
ventilation of our schools were brought up to a higher 
standard. Improved ventilation would not only effect this 
by simple dilution, but would also result in an improved 
physical condition of the children, so that they would not 
be so liable to contract any disease. Shutting up children 
in badly ventilated rooms brings about a bodily condition 
which offers little or no resistance to invasion by the 
micro-organisms of disease. 

Extreme cases, such as are illustrated by the incident of 
the Black Hole of Calcutta, show that when the products 
of- respiration are breathed in a concentrated condition 
rapid poisoning results. At Calcutta 146 persons were 
imprisoned in a room about 18 feet square, and with only 
two small windows. In the morning there were 123 dead 
and, of the 23 who were living, several afterwards died of 
putrid fever, the effects of the organic poison they had 
PHY. HYG. 5 



66 VENTILATION. 

inhaled. A similar catastrophe befell the steerage passen- 
gers of the Londonderry who, in 1848, were shut down in 
the cabin during a storm. Among those who recovered 
from the immediate ill-effects many suffered from fever 
and mal-nutrition. Such extreme cases are not likely to 
occur in schools and are mentioned simply in order to 
illustrate the fact that we have to deal with a poisonous 
pollution of the air. 

Methods of Ventilation. 

The efficient ventilation of schools is undoubtedly one of 
the most important problems of the hour. In a great 
number of the older schools the question of ventilation 
does not appear to have been considered in any way, while 
in the more modern ones elaborate installations have been 
fixed at a great cost without any corresponding satisfaction. 

The methods of ventilation may be divided into two 
kinds the natural and the artificial. By natural ventila- 
tion we mean anyjnethod that depends upon the natural 
forces which set air in motion, and does not involve the 
use of any mechanical means for the renewal of the air. 
Artificial ventilation, on the other hand, depends upon the 
use of pumps, fans, bellows, etc. 



NATUEAL VENTILATION. 

Two properties of gases play a very important part in 
the theory of ventilation; these are (1) diffusion, and (2) 
changes in the density of the air produced by heat. 

Diffusion is the property of gases to mix thoroughly and 
completely even against gravity, i.e. a heavy gas will diffuse 
upwards and completely mix with a lighter gas, and a light 
gas will diffuse downwards and mix with a heavier one. 



VENTILATION. 



67 



For instance, if in Fig. 22 the upper jar is filled with coal 
gas, which is a light gas, and the lower jar with air, which 
is a comparatively heavy one, then, on removing the plates 
between them and allowing them to diffuse about half an 
hour, the lower jar will be found to contain just as much 
coal gas as the upper jar, and both may be lighted. Of 
course, if the heavy gas is placed above the light one, the 
mixing will take place more rapidly. The same result 
would be obtained, after a longer 
time, if a partition of some 
porous substance, such as un- 
glazed earthenware, were placed 
between the jars. It is found 
that the lighter a gas is the faster 
it diffuses, and that if a light gas 
is on one side of a porous par- 
tition and a heavier gas on the 
other, then the light gas will 
diffuse through into the heavy 
one faster than the heavy gas 
will diffuse into the light one. 

Now in an ordinary room the 
air is warmer and, as we shall see, 
lighter than the cold air outside. 
Diffusion outwards, therefore, will take place at a greater 
rate than diffusion inwards, and fresh air will enter the 
room not only as the result of this process of diffusion, 
but also in order to equalise the pressure inside and out- 
side the room. Diffusion through the walls of a room is 
greatly interfered with by the paper, plaster, and paint 
with which the walls are covered. As an example of the 
power of diffusion as a ventilating force it is said that 
in the case of a cubical room with brick walls, contents 
3000 cubic feet, and difference of temperature between the 



jar con fa in m 

coal gas 



- -jiar con tern ing 
air 



Fig. 16. 

DIFFUSION. 



68 



VENTILATION. 



inside and outside air being 35 Fahr., the air would be 
completely changed in one hour by diffusion alone. 

Changes in Density of Air. 

When air is heated it expands. For this reason a pint 
of cold air will weigh heavier than a pint of hot air. Hot 
air therefore rises and cold air will take its place. This 
is exactly how winds are produced. The surface of part 
of the earth becomes heated by the sun ; this warms the 
air in contact with it and causes it to expand and rise ; the 





Fig. 17. 

ASPIRATING EFFECT OF CHIMNEY. 



colder surrounding air then rushes in to take its place and 
a wind is produced. 

The application of this to ventilation is easy. Foul air 
being a product of respiration and combustion is always 
hotter than the fresh air, and so it will rise, and if an 
opening is provided, it will escape. Fresh air will then 
enter through any opening to take its place. For the same 



VENTILATION. 



69 



reason the hot air over a fire goes up the chimney, and is 
replaced by fresh and colder air entering by windows, 
door, keyholes, and cracks. 

Wind, as a ventilating agent, may act in two ways : 

(1) By perflation, i.e. by blowing through a room when 
the doors and windows are open. 

(2) By aspiration. This is illustrated by the draught 
up a chimney when there is no fire below. The wind blow- 
ing over the top of the chimney lessens the pressure of air 
in the chimney, producing an up-draught, while fresh air 
is drawn into the room to take its place. In crowded 
courts surrounded by higher buildings this ventilating 
action of the wind is greatly interfered with. 

There are a number of appliances for ventilation which 
make use of this aspirating 
effect of the wind. Boyle's 
ventilators and Banner's 
cowls are two forms which 
are widely used. 

Boyle's Air-pump Venti- 
lator has fixed openings on 
different sides. (See Fig. 
18.) The wind, blowing from 
almost any direction, passes 
through some of the openings 
and out of the opposite ones. 
In doing so, air is extracted 
from the tube or air-exit 
over which the ventilator is 
placed. 

Banner's Cowl sets itself, by means of a wind vane, so 
that the opening is always directed to face the wind. 




Fig. is. 



BOYLE'S AIR PUMP VENTILATOE. 



70 VENTILATION. 

OPENINGS FOR VENTILATION. 

Outlets for foul air and inlets for fresh air must both 
be provided. It is a common practice to provide the outlet 
only and to make no provision for the entrance of fresh 
air. In order to provide the necessary 2000 cubic feet of 
fresh air per hour an opening of 16 square inches must be 
provided, assuming the air to enter the room at an average 
velocity of 5 feet per second. An outlet of the same or 
larger size is necessary. In a class-room for 48 scholars 
the inlets should therefore have a minimum total area of 
5 square feet and the outlets the same or rather more. 
The ventilation inlet opening recommended by the Board of 
Education is certainly inadequate, and betrays an entire 
ignorance of the subject. 

Position of Inlets and Outlets. 

Outlets for natural ventilation are usually provided close 
to the ceiling, and the inlets at about five feet above the 
floor. The inlets should be so arranged as to direct the 
current of air upwards. 

The ventilating appliances for natural ventilation, in 
addition to those which take advantage of the action of 
the wind, are conveniently divided in four groups, (1) the 
chimney; (2) window ventilation; (3) openings at or near 
the floor level with vertical tubes or shafts; (4) openings 
in the wall or roof. 

The Chimney. 

The chimney, if present, acts as an excellent and most 
efficient outlet. If a fire is burning in the grate the action 
is to rush air out of the room at a great rate, and when 
there is no fire the chimney is still a valuable outlet. 



VENTILATION. 



71 



Window Ventilation. 



(a) The simplest and most obvious method of ventilation 
is that of open windows ; and in warm weather it is un- 
doubtedly the best. In cold weather, however, it is very 
liable to produce draughts. 

(6) The upper part of the window can be made to work 




Fig. 19. 
HINQSD TOP TO WINDOW. 



on a hinge so that the top moves into the room. Trian- 
gular pieces of glass or wood should be placed at the sides 
to prevent down draught. The current of fresh air will 
then be directed upwards, as is the case with all efficient 
ventilators. Similar hopper openings can be arranged 6 
feet from the floor and may act as inlets or outlets. 



Closed window 






outside 



inside 



m 



Lower sasft raised 
&wood inserted 



outside 



/ns/de 



B 



XX 



STde'View 



Fig. 20. 
HINCKES Biau's METHOD. 

Front Inside view 




Fig. 21. 

RK VRNTILATOR. 

72 



VENTILATION. 



73 







(c) A very simple and excellent method of window 
ventilation is that suggested 
by Hinckes Bird. The lower 
sash is raised, and a block of 
wood is accurately fitted in 
the opening below so as to 
completely close it. Fresh air 
enters between the two sashes 
and is directed upwards. 

(c) Louvre Ventilator. 

One or more of the 
ordinary panes of glass are 
removed and the space fitted 
with strips of glass arranged 
in exactly the same way as 
a Venetian blind. The space 
between the strips can be 
adjusted by cords. The 
strips slant upwards from 
the outside, and direct the 
current of air upwards. 

(e) An excellent form of 
window ventilation is that 
of the Ghaddock Window 
(Fig. 22). The ease of 
manipulation is remarkable, 
and the results obtained are 
extremely satisfactory. 




Fig. 22. 

THE CHADDOCK WINDOW. 



Openings near Floor with Vertical Shafts ; 

Tobiris Tubes. The air enters from the outside through 
an opening in the wall at the floor level; it is then directed 
upwards by the vertical shaft or tube about six feet high. 



74 



VENTILATION. 



At the top the tube is fitted with a valve by means of 
which the amount of air coming in may be regulated. 




Fig. 23. 

TOBIN'S TUBE. 

Openings in Walls or Roofs. 

I. Inlets: 

(a) The Sherringham Valve is a simple and a very good 
inlet ventilator. A hole is made in the wall about seven 




Fig. 24. 

SHERRINGHAM VALTK. 

or eight feet from the floor. Into this is fitted an iron 
box, with a grating on the outside and a hopper valve on 
the inside. The air passes from the outside through the 



VENTILATION. 



75 



grating and into the room through the valve, the size of 
which may be regulated by a pulley. The inside aperture 
of the ventilator is larger than the outer, so that draughts 
are not usually, produced. 

(6) Ellison's Bricks. Each brick is perforated with 
conical holes, the apex of the cone being towards the outer 
air, so that the incoming current of air has its channel 
continuously increased in size, thereby causing its velocity 
to be decreased. The action of these conical holes may be 
very simply illustrated by a cone of paper. Direct the 
large opening towards a lighted candle and send a puff 
of breath down the small opening. The candle is hardly 



In si do 



Oofside 




o 


o 



Section 



outside 




jtf, inside 



Fig. 25. 
ELLISON'S AIR BRICKS. 

affected. If the cone is now reversed and the experiment 
repeated the candle will at once be blown out. 

II. Outlets: 

(a) The chief outlet, as we have said, is the chimney. 
When a fire is burning, from 5,000 to 25,000 cubic feet of 
air pass up the chimney per hour. 

(b) Arnott's Valve is an outlet made to be fixed in the 
wall so as to open into the chimney. It consists of an iron 
box with a light metal valve capable of swinging towards 
the chimney, but not into the room. The foul air can 
therefore pass up the chimney, but the smoke cannot pass 



/caF/apl: \MicaFlap 



liliiih.i'iilii'lili! 

ll\ Mica Flap 



Mica Hap 



76 VENTILATION. 

into the room. An objectionable feature of these venti- 
lators is the clicking noise they make. Also, when in any 

way out of order, they 
admit smoke from the 
chimney. Fig. 27 shows 
an improved method. 
The outlet shaft is built 
alongside the chimney 
shaft and acts as an 
Fi g- 26- efficient outlet. 

BOYLK'S MICA FLAP VENTILATOR. / \ T> 7 > nf TTT/ 

(c) Boyle s Mica Flap 

Ventilator is simply an improvement upon Arnott's valve. 
Instead of one valve there are four or more small ones 
made of thin talc. 

(d) McKinnelVs Ventilator. For rooms having no other 
rooms above them this ventilator is usually very efficient. 
It acts as an inlet and outlet. There are two concentric 
tubes as shown in the figure. The inner tube forms an 
outlet, and the space between the tubes forms the inlet. 

Value of Natural Ventilation. 

It is necessary to preface any remarks upon the subject 
with the statement that attempts to ventilate schools by 
natural ventilation are usually of the most crude and 
elementary description. When a building is to be venti- 
lated by artificial means very careful calculations are made, 
and the whole system is fully planned and thought out from 
beginning to end ; but with natural ventilation little or no 
trouble is taken, and there is usually no systematic attempt 
to deal with the difficulty. If the same serious efforts were 
devoted towards effecting efficient ventilation by natural 
means as are always given to the provision and maintenance 
of artificial ventilation, it is at all events possible that 
much more satisfactory results would be obtained. 



Fig. 27. 

OHIMNKT BEKXBT Aiu OUTLET. 




Fig. 28. 
McKiNNELL'.s VENTILATOR. 

77 



78 VENTILATION. 

In summer, when there is no need to introduce warmed 
air, there should be little difficulty in supplying the neces- 
sary amount. At the same time it must be admitted that 
the admission and circulation of fresh air direct from the 
outside can be much more efficiently controlled by separate 
fans for each room. Small electric fans are not very costly 
and are very efficient ventilators, whether used for extrac- 
tion or propulsion. Ventilation on such lines has the great 




# i \yEATING 

X ' / / { \ BATTERY, 

'OR COIL.OR FAN 
Fig. 29. 
THK MOST RBLIABLK FOEM or AIR OUTLKT. 

advantage of working in conjunction with widely open 
windows and ventilators, thereby affording the children 
an object lesson that might be applied to the proper venti- 
lation of their homes. Any system of ventilation that 
demands closed doors and windows in hot weather is not 
to be recommended for school purposes. 

In winter, when all air that is admitted must be 
warmed, the use of radiators, in the form of modified 
Tobin's tubes, act very well as a rule, or the various 



II 

a ^ 



i 

o 



due 
err' 



perfiation 
Reports. 



g. 

V 





( 


c 


D < 


Ji 


N") 


*;. OUTER AIR ':'-. 

V I'M PURITY.' v. 




I ' . . 

:.F'- '.' 
: |.'-'N 

\ . / 


\ 




o 
3 

CO 

-n 


*.'.'.''*.' 




. \ . 
\ 
' \ . 


\ 




3 


"'.'; 




* ' X x" 


^ 


IPLAYJ 




:v>v!'i 




. \ 

'f 


k. 




^ 


'.'.'. V ; . : '- 




'. 1 
. *l . ' 


\ 


r 
H 


3 


',''.:':'; 




. | 
'1 ' 


> 




ro 



Vols.of C0 2 in 1 0,000 Vols. 



PERMISSIBLE 
. IMPURITY. 



79 




i H 



w 



3 

E.I 

"3'& 

I] 




SP 
S-B 



BE- 



r^r 




80 



VENTILATION. 



81 



forms of ventilating stoves and grates can be relied upon 
to introduce large volumes of warmed air. The chief 
difficulty is the control of the inlet or outlet, and this is 
best secured by the use of a small fan ; but where fans are 
too costly or impossible a careful and serious supervision 
of the ventilating scheme will always produce fairly satis- 
factory results, provided that the inlets and outlets are 
sufficient for the purpose. 

The outside openings of air inlets should be not less than 
six feet above the outside ground level in order to prevent 
the entrance of an excessive amount of dust ; or filters may 
be arranged for the same purpose. Extraction may be 
controlled by using flues communicating with a vertical 
shaft, in the centre of which a cast-iron smoke pipe, from 
the furnace, is fixed. This hot surface rarefies the vitiated 
air and causes a continuous up-draught. 

Natural ventilation has been subjected to somewhat 
exaggerated condemnation. The results that have been 
obtained have undoubtedly merited the most severe dis- 
approval ; these have not been produced by natural ventila- 
tion, but, in the author's experience, by an almost entire 
absence of any form of efficient ventilators. Dr. Kerr 
has published results which show most graphically the 
superiority in the condition of the air in mechanically 
ventilated schools over that in the schools ventilated by 
natural means. The results possibly illustrate the dif- 
ference in the atmosphere maintained by a carefully 
supervised system on the one hand, and an ill-planned 
and inadequate system with no supervision on the .other. 
In Dr. Kerr's opinion " there is no comparison between 
artificial and natural ventilation. Natural ventilation, 
in fact, means no ventilation at all." Such statements 
are deplorable and show a total lack of appreciation of 
the possibilities of real ventilation by natural means. 

PHY HYG. t> 



S2 VENTILATION. 

Dr. Eeid's experiments with the Staffordshire type of 
school show conclusively that excellent ventilation may be 
achieved by natural means, and experiments carried out 
by the author serve to show that if intelligent supervision 
is exercised over these methods the results are as good as 
those obtained by mechanical means, while the educational 
effect is greatly superior. On the other hand, Dr. Kerr 
admits that " the artificial systems mean that doors and 
windows must be shut, and that alone gives a feeling of 
' closed-in-ness ' to the people who work in the room." 



AKTIFICIAL VENTILATION. 

The methods of artificial ventilation depend either upon 
one of the following processes, or upon the two combined : 

1. Extraction processes, or vacuum methods, in which 

the vitiated air is forced out of the room, and 
fresh air enters mainly through inlets provided. 

2. Propulsion processes, or plenum methods, in which 

the fresh air is forced into the room, and the 
foul air escapes through the usual outlets. 
A combination of the two systems is usually advisable, 
but where one only is adopted the propulsion process is 
usually regarded as preferable, because the air can then be 
obtained from a known inlet, and can be warmed, filtered, 
and otherwise treated before it enters the rooms. If 
extraction is employed the sources of fresh air cannot be 
controlled so easily as in the case of propulsion, but it is 
possible that this method may be found eventually to be 
the more satisfactory. 

Fans. 

Fans are usually relied upon in all systems for the 
artificial ventilation of schools. The open-blade types of 



VENTILATION. 83 

fan are preferable, as they are easily kept in order and are 
economical. An electric fan ten feet in diameter, running 
at ninety revolutions per minute, and delivering 2,115,000 
cubic feet of air per hour is used in the Bradford schools, 
and costs the astonishingly small sum of 1*3 pence per 
hour. 




Fig. 32. 
COMBINED FAN AND MOTOE. 



Fans may be driven by electric motors, by steam, or by 
a gas engine. Electricity should always be used where 
possible, as it possesses the combined advantages of being 
cheap, noiseless, and inodorous. 



84 VENTILATION. 

Cost. 

The cost of fuel in schools ventilated by mechanical 
means should be less than in schools which rely upon natural 
methods. In Bradford the cost for fuel per ten square 
feet floor space is slightly over tenpence in mechanically 
ventilated schools, and nearly elevenpence halfpenny in 
those ventilated by natural means. 

Method. 

The air inlet should be arranged on that side of the 
building which is most likely to yield the purest supply. 
The air should be drawn from a point as high above the 
ground as possible. It should be of ample size, greatly 
in excess of its theoretical requirements. The main air- 
ducts should be very large, and not less than six feet 
high, in order that regular and thorough inspection may 
be maintained. They must be made with smooth surfaces; 
preferably lined with glazed bricks, in order to give as 
little resistance to the inflowing air as possible. If the 
ducts are lined with glazed bricks they must be cleaned 
at least once a year. Un glazed surfaces should be carefully 
and regularly limewashed. 

Propulsion. 

The air is drawn by the fan first over a coil of steam 
pipes, called the tempering coil, which are used only in 
frosty weather, and then through a filter made of coarse 
jute cloth, or other satisfactory material, with a water 
spray attached. A layer of coke between wire netting 
makes a satisfactory filter. Cheese cloth screens have also 
proved to be very efficient. The use of the water spray in 
warm weather probably makes the air too humid. It is 
necessary when the air is being warmed, and additional 
moisture should be supplied. The current of air then 
passes through the fan and along the main duct, from 



VENTILATION. 



85 



which it enters the branch ducts which lead to the different 
parts of the building. At the entrances of branch ducts 
additional steam coils may be placed if it is desirable 
to keep one part of the building at a higher temperature 
than the rest, or to afford increased heat to provide for 




Fig. 33. 
FAN AND COKE FILTER. 

loss during passage through long ducts or for exposed 
rooms. 

Source of Heat. 

It is important to avoid the use of excessively hot pipes. 
A maximum limit of 228 F., equal to a pressure of 5 Ibs. 
on the boiler, should be adopted. If higher temperatures 
are used, the air becomes " burnt " or " dead," and loses 
its "vitality." Possibly a great deal of the feeling of 



86 



VENTILATION. 



oppression that many people experience in mechanically 
ventilated buildings is due to this cause. 






/ 


\vs.vvvvvs^x 


S e 




i 


) I 






X 






a 


xxxxxxxxxxx 

-o 


\\ 

:^\\\\\\\sv 


< 

X 
X 
X e 
X 




Fig. 34. 

DIAGRAMMATIC PLAN OF MECHANICAL VENTILATION. 

a. Opening for fresh air ; i, Small hot water pipes for use in frosty weather 
c, Filter; d, Fan; , Hot water pipes ; /, Branch ducts. 

Inlets and Outlets. 

From the branch ducts there pass vertical flues 
leading to each room. These open into the room about 
eight feet above the floor. The outlet should be placed 
on the same wall, quite close to the floor. These positions 
for the inlet and outlet respectively are the out- 
come of a series of experiments made with a view of de- 
termining the respective positions for the inlet and outlet 
which would result in the most complete change in the air 
of the room. All other positions for the inlet and outlet 
were found to leave almost unchanged the layer of air, 
four feet deep, that rests on the floor. This layer is, of 
course, the air which is of the greatest importance, as the 
scholars live in it. The above arrangement not only pro- 
duces a better distribution of the fresh air, but is more 



VENTILATION. 



87 



economical in the working, as there is a greater amount of 
heat extracted from the air before it is finally discharged. 

The inlet should be as large as possible : it is an ad- 
vantage to arrange several inlets along the same wall, and 
the same number of outlets below. The total area of 
inlet for a room 80 feet by 25 feet should not be less than 
five square feet ; the larger the area of openings the better 
the results are as a 
rule, because the air f 
can then be admitted at 
a slow speed. The aim 
should be to deliver as 
large a volume of air 
at as slow a speed as * 
possible. Six feet per 
second should repre- 

INLKT AND OUTLET FOR MECHANICAL 

sent a maximum per- VENTILATION. 

missible velocity. 

The inlets should be either left open or be covered with 
a wire screen with wide meshes, at least l inches. 

Extraction. 

The outlets near the floor level communicate with the foul 
air duct which, in its turn, communicates with a vertical 
upcast shaft. The vertical shaft should be of very large 
sectional area and, as a rule, some assistance is necessary 
in order to secure a strong up-draught here. The me- 
thods that may be adopted for this purpose include 

(1) A fan fixed near the top of the vertical shaft. This 
is by far the best arrangment, as the whole system is then 
duplicated to a certain extent, so that, if the plenum fan 
breaks down, the other can still carry on a certain amount 
of ventilation. Another important advantage is that the 
amount of extraction can be regulated. 



88 



VENTILATION. 



(2) A central cast-iron pipe bearing hot waste gases 
from the furnace. 

(3) Lighted gas jets or steam jets at the bottom of the shaft- 

Cool Air in Summer. 

If the fresh air duct is carried underneath the basement 
the air supplied during the hot weather will be cooled 
several degrees, Great care should be taken, if this plan 
is adopted, to construct the duct so as to be impervious 
to moisture and to ground air. 

To test Ventilation. 

The only completely satisfactory test is to analyse the 



Fig. 36. 




air in the rooms at short intervals throughout the day. 
Another method is to measure by an anemometer the 
speed of the incoming fresh air as it passes the inlet, 



VENTILATION. 



89 



estimate from this and the area of the inlet the volume of 
air that is entering per minute, and compare this with the 
necessary amount, which is, as we have said above, 30 cubic 
feet per scholar. The anemometer is placed in the aperture 
of the inlet, about two-fifths of the distance between the 
centre and the margin, and the delicate blades are driven 
by the current of air. These turn an axis with an endless 
screw running on small toothed wheels which record the 
results on the dial. Too much reliance, however, must not 
be placed upon results obtained in this way. 

The importance of determining the amount of moisture 
in the air is referred to later on. 

Town Schools. 



The method usually advocated for town schools is the 
one already described, i.e. a combination of extraction with 
propulsion. This, if properly planned and intelligently 
supervised, gives excellent results, but suffers from the 
serious disadvantage of necessitating closed windows for 
its efficient working. In winter, before entering the room, 
the air may be warmed to the extent necessary to keep the 
room at the desired temperature, or, as is often advisable, 
it is simply introduced at the desired temperature, and the 
warmth of the room is maintained by coils or radiators 
placed along the walls of the room. This separate method 
for heating and ventilating has the advantage of making 
it possible to maintain the temperature of the school, 
through the night in winter, without keeping up the 
ventilation as well a very economical arrangement. 

Large Village Schools. 

The cost of any mechanical system is usually too great 
for these schools. Many of them are heated by hot- water 
pipes under the high or the low pressure system, and some 



90 VENTILATION. 

plan should be adopted, such as ventilating radiators, 
whereby warm air can be admitted. Additional pipes to 
warm the room should be available for very cold weather. 
Ventilating grates and stoves may also be adopted in such 
cases. Attention should be directed to the adequate pro- 
vision of outlets, which, in order to be under some control, 
may be connected with a main vertical shaft fitted with 
some appliance for heating and causing a continuous cur- 
rent of air. In summer some system of natural ventilation, 
preferably by windows, should be carefully arranged. 

Rural Schools. 

Some form of ventilating stoves or grates is necessary in 
winter. Stoves are often used. Willoughby recommends 
a form which is much used in Canadian schools. It can 
be arranged to introduce fresh warm air and also to aid 
extraction. The opening for the purpose of supplying the 
stove with fuel should be as narrow as possible. The 
fresh air passes from the outside along the duct beneath 
the floor into the space between the stove and its sheet-iron 
jacket, where it is warmed, and then into the room. The 
space between the jacket and the stove should be at least 
eighteen inches. 

On the opposite side of the room a tin extraction duct 
should be constructed with its open end about one foot 
above the floor. Cross section dimensions of 12 x 6 inches 
are recommended, but for large rooms there should be two 
such ducts. The duct passes up vertically, then bends 
and passes horizontally along the ceiling, and communicates 
with a large flue, in the centre of which the stove pipe is 
fixed. The heat of the pipe causes this flue to act as an 
extraction force. For summer use there should be ample 
ventilation possible by doors, windows, or special ventila- 
tor openings. 



VENTILATION. 91 

The Supply of Moisture. 

In those buildings which are heated by radiators or hot 
pipes the most satisfactory plan is to place porous clay 
vessels upon the radiators or pipes. The vessels should 
cover the top of the radiator entirely ; and it should be the 
duty of someone to see that they always contain water. 

Hot-air furnaces are often provided with a vessel for 
water, the evaporation from which is supposed to increase 
the humidity of the air sufficiently. As a rule, however, 
such means are found to be totally insufficient for the 
purpose, and are only likely to work well when the vessel 
is very large and is kept filled by some automatic arrange- 
ment. 

An escape of steam from the radiator is occasionally 
adopted, but unfortunately it produces a limited area of 
excessive dampness. 

The adoption of porous vessels seems to give the most 
satisfactory results, as the number can be increased or 
decreased until the wet and dry bulb hygrometer indicates 
a humidity between 50 and 65 per cent. 



CHAPTER V. 



WATER SUPPLY AND SANITARY 
APPLIANCES. 

Water Supply. 

The bountiful supply of pure water is now a popular 
demand, and, in most districts in this country, it is met. 
The school, in all urban districts, must share the general 
water supply, but in rural districts it may be necessary to 
arrange for its own water supply, either by the sinking of a 
well, or by providing for the collection and storage of rain- 
water. In all cases the supply should be carefully ex- 
amined. If it comes from shallow wells or springs there 
should be no suspicion of pollution by drains or cesspools. 
After the vacations such wells should be inspected, and the 
water pumped out just before the opening of the schools. 
It is advisable for all country schools to possess a private 
deep or "artesian" well, because shallow wells are so liable 
to pollution. 

Many country schools have to depend on the rainfall for 
their supply of water. In such instances the supply should 
receive the closest supervision in order to keep it up to the 

92 



SANITARY APPLIANCES. 93 

highest possible standard. The school roofs are usually 
the collecting areas, and care should be taken to protect 
all gutters and spouts with wire netting to keep off birds 
as far as possible. 

It is advisable to allow the first portion of every fall 
of rain to run to waste. This is effected by means of 
a rain-water separator, the separator of which is pivoted 
so that it directs the first portion into the waste pipe, and 
then turns over and directs the clean water into the cistern 
or filter. 

The water should first pass through an underground 
sand filter, and then into an underground cistern. Kain- 
water is very liable to dissolve lead, so it should never be 
stored in lead cisterns or passed through lead pipes. 
Properly collected and stored it forms a pure and whole- 
some source of water supply. 

Possible Contaminations of a Water Supply. 

If the water supply is impure, the impurity may have 
been introduced in various ways : 

1. At its source, i.e. the water may have been drawn 

from a polluted supply, e.g. water from a marsh, 
a river receiving sewage, or a polluted shallow 
well. 

2. In its transit from source to storage. For instance, 

the washings from cultivated lands, or sewage from 
drains may have obtained access. 

3. During storage. This would include impurities 

derived from dirty cisterns, cisterns exposed to 
sewer gas, and lead cisterns. 

4. During distribution. Lead may be dissolved from 

lead pipes. 



94 



SANITARY APPLIANCES. 



5. During filtration. A bad filter will often render 

water impure. 

The only satisfactory filters are those of the Pasteur. 
Chamberland or Berkefeld type, but it must be remembered 
that these filters act only as highly efficient strainers, and 
have no action on any dissolved impurities. 

The Pasteur- Chamberland filter consists of an outer 
and an inner tube. The outer tube 
is of ordinary glazed earthenware and 
is fitted on the tap so that it contains 
the tap-water at the ordinary pres- 
sure. This pressure forces the water 
through the pores of the inner tube, 
which is composed of unglazed earth- 
enware. These pores are so fine that 
even the smallest micro-organisms are 
unable to pass through. The inner 
tube can be removed for cleaning 
when required. The dissolved im- 
purities are not affected by this 
filter. 

The Berkefeld filter is similar to 
the above in construction and in ac- 
tion, but is rather more rapid in its 
filtration. All filters should be cleaned 
regularly and the filtering material thoroughly washed 
and dried. 

Where it is necessary to store water that is to be used 
for drinking purposes a separate cistern must always be 
used for this purpose, and such cistern should have no 
connection with the water-closet. 

A plentiful supply of pure drinking water must always 
be accessible in schools and playgrounds. Children require 
a frequent drink of water, and their health suffers if such 




Fig. 37. 

PASTEUR-CHAMBER- 
LAND FILTER. 



SANITARY APPLIANCES. 95 

is not available. In playgrounds a drinking fountain is 
best. These are so constructed that a small steady stream 
issues from an upright pipe for about three inches. The 
scholar drinks by receiving this stream in his mouth. Any 
form of continuous fountain is superior to the use of 
drinking cups in common, which are often the means of 
spreading such diseases as diphtheria. In country schools 
where there is no public water supply such fountains are 
impossible, and a tank or keg must be provided, from 
which the water may be drawn by a tap. 

Cisterns. 

In those cases where cisterns are necessary they must 
fulfil the following conditions : 

1. Material. The best material is either galvanised iron 
or slate with cement joints. Neither of these impart any 
injurious quality to the water. Lead cisterns are durable 
but dangerous, owing to metallic contamination. 

2. Position. A cistern should be shielded from the sun's 
rays, but must be in an easily accessible position, so that 
it is readily inspected and cleaned. Covering and ventila- 
tion should be provided. 

3. Fittings. The overflow pipe must be carried through 
the nearest outside wall, where it should be cut short. It 
must on no account communicate with any drain or soil 
pipe. The supply pipe for the water-closet must not pass 
direct from the cistern, a smaller cistern for this purpose 
being necessary. 

School Drains. 

The drains for schools do not differ essentially from 
those of any large building for public or residential pur- 
poses. Before any pipes are laid the whole system of 
drainage should be mapped out from beginning to end. 



SANITARY APPLIANCES, 



The whole length of the trenches should be dug and covered 
with concrete to a depth of four inches. Earthenware pipes 
should be used ; they should be well glazed and free from 
flaws or cracks. Six-inch pipes, laid with a fall of 1 in 60 are 




Fig. 38. 

INSPECTION CHAMBER. 

A, Rain-water; B, Butler's pantry ; C, Housemaid's closet; D and E, Soil pipes 
from water-closet ; F, Waste water from bath ; G, Waste from kitchen sink ; H, 
Rain-water pipe. The pipes at exposed part are half cylinders only. N.B. 
Letters only refer to proposed positions, which may be varied according to plans 
of architect. 

usually the best for ordinary use, but some of the branches, 
leading from single water-closets or gullies, may be made 
with four-inch pipes and have a fall of 1 in 40. All drains 
should be laid as straight as possible. If it is necessary 



SANITARY APPLIANCES. .97 

to alter the direction of the drain a proper bent pipe should 
be used. Branches should join the main drain at acute 
angles and by means of junction pipes. Old-fashioned 
drains nearly always effect a junction as quickly as possible, 
so that these points of union are scattered about and are 
difficult to locate. The modern plan is to make all junc- 
tions as near together as possible, at some convenient spot, 
where an inspection chamber is built. This is a small 
chamber built of brickwork set in cement. The drain and 
its tributaries meet in this chamber, being continued along 
the floor in the form of half -pipes set in concrete. A man 
entering the inspection chamber will therefore be able to 
tell at a glance whether there is any deposit at the junction. 
The chamber itself is easily cleared and rods can be passed 
up the different branches. 

Joints. 

Particular attention should be given to making good 
joints. The usual method is to soak a piece of yarn 
in some fluid cement, and to ram this well into the joint 
all round so as to about half fill it. The joint should then 
be filled up with stiff cement. Only the best Portland 
cement should be used. 

Traps. 
A trap is a contrivance which is placed in the course 




Fig. 39. 

SIMPLE BEND. 

of pipes and drains with a view to prevent the passage 
of sewer air into a building. The only traps admissible 

PHY. HYG. 7 



98 



SANITARY APPLIANCES. 



are the various forms of siphon traps. Figures 39 and 40 
show the simplest form of such traps. Buchanan's 
disconnecting and ventilating trap is used to disconnect 



FRCSH AIR 



INSPECTION 

DPCNINC 



DRAIN 




Fig. 40. 

the drain from the sewer. It may be used alone, but more 
often a modification of it is adapted to use with an inspec- 
tion chamber. A convenient trap for 
use with sinks or lavatory basins is 
shown in Fig. 41. It is fitted with 
a movable screw plug which is useful 
for removing any solid matter that 
may be stopping the pipe. The various 
forms of water-closets depend upon 
siphon traps to prevent the passage 
of gas from the soil pipe and drain 
into the building. 




Fig. 41. 

TRAP FOR SINK WASTK 
PIPES. 



Ventilation of Drain. 

The soil pipe (if water-closets are placed in part of the 
school building) or a special ventilating pipe (if there are 



SANITARY APPLIANCES. 99 

only closets on the ground level and away from the build- 
ing) acts as the chief ventilator on the near end of the 
drain. It acts usually as an outlet. The grating over the 
inspection chamber, or a short ventilating pipe attached to 
a disconnecting and ventilating trap, is the ventilator at the 
far end of the drain, and this is usually the inlet. If the 
drain is well and evenly laid, and these two ventilators are 
properly fixed and remain open, there should never be any 
foul gases in the drain, and no bad smell ought to be 
observable near either of the ventilators. 

Testing Drains. 

Before the trenches are filled in, the drains must be 
carefully tested. Each opening in the inspection chamber 
should be plugged and the different branches of the drain 
separately filled up with water. If the water remains at 
the same level for an hour the drain is satisfactory. If 
the level falls an examination of the joints will reveal the 
faulty place. 

Lavatories. 



There should be ample lavatory accommodation in all 
schools. One lavatory basin to twenty scholars should be 
regarded as a minimum, and one to ten scholars is desirable. 
How is it possible to properly teach and encourage habits 
of cleanliness in children when schools are so often pro- 
vided with a dark, dirty, and bad- smelling room called the 
lavatory, into which the children are rarely permitted to 
enter ? The basin should be of hard, durable material, and 
the simplest means of outlet, an opening filled by a mov- 
able plug, is the best. The waste pipe and overflow pipe 
must be arranged as shown in the figure. The waste pipe 
must not communicate with any soil pipe, drain, or sewer, 
but must pass as quickly as possible through the outside 



100 



SANITARY APPLIANCES, 



wall and immediately discharge upon a slanting surface 
sloping down to a gully trap, if the lavatory is on the 





Fig. 43. 

Row OF LAVATORY BASINS. (For sake of clearness 
the antisiphonage pipes are omitted.) 

NOTE. There are many excellent types of school 
lavatory basins now upon the market, the fittings of 
which differ, in various ways, from those shown in the 
diagram. Space does not permit of these being shown, but one of the best type is the 
"running water " basin, which permits the rapid use of the basin by a large number 
of scholars without the same water coming into contact with different scholars. 

ground floor, or into the open end of a vertical pipe which 
discharges on such a sloping surface, if the lavatory is on 
one of the upper floors. 



SANITARY APPLIANCES. 101 

In school lavatories the best arrangement is to place 
rows of basins round three sides of a room. The three 
rows of basins should be separately connected, i.e. there 
should be a separate waste pipe for each row. Each waste 
pipe should be trapped, and each trap provided with an 
air pipe to prevent siphonage. If these air pipes are not 
supplied the discharge of the end basin will suck out the 
water from the traps of those basins nearer the outlet, 
leaving an open pipe. 

Baths. 

The consideration of the subject of baths may seem to 
some to be superfluous in considering the needs of day 
schools. Few people, especially those who serve on educa- 
tion committees, appear to realise what has already been 
done in the direction of providing swimming baths for the 
purpose of physical exercise and health, and warm baths 
in pans or warm shower baths for producing cleanliness 
and also for educating the children in bodily cleanliness. 
There are swimming baths in connection with schools at 
Edinburgh and Govan in Scotland, the latter tank measur- 
ing 27 X 59 feet, and the depth varying from about 5 feet 
to a little over 3 feet. The temperature of the water is kept 
at about 70 F. Shower baths and soap must be provided 
in the same building, so that persons whose bodies are not 
sufficiently clean can be required to wash themselves 
thoroughly before entering the swimming bath. The cost 
of heating the water during the winter months is a very 
serious item, and for this reason it is not advisable to keep 
the bath in use during the whole year. Its maintenance 
from May to October entails little expense, and, especially 
if the bath is kept open during the summer vacation, it is 
an immense boon to the children of the locality. 

At G-iessen the school bathing facilities consist of eight 



102 SANITARY APPLIANCES. 

large zinc pans, five feet in diameter, for eight hundred 
pupils. The children bathe three together, and are allowed 
five minutes for the bath. The most satisfactory form of 
bath, however, is the shower bath, which is rapidly coming 
into use for school purposes. This has very great ad van. 
tages over any other kind from every point of view. These 
advantages may be summed up as follows : 

(1) The original cost of the simpler forms is not at all 
excessive. 

(2) It is economical. Only a moderate amount of water 
per head is necessary. 

(3) The risk of contagion from one child to another is 
entirely removed, because the water that has touched a 
bather runs off at once down the waste pipe. . 

(4) No time is wasted. There is no filling and emptying. 
Immediately one child has finished another can commence. 

(5) This form of bath is found to possess a great attrac- 
tion for children. 

In Berlin there are many schools fitted with shower 
baths. The temperature of the water at the commence- 
ment of a shower is 113 F., and it gradually cools down to 
about 86 F. In Boston, school baths have now been pro- 
vided for the past six or seven years. 

For a school with 800 scholars a set of ten shower baths 
and thirty dressing closets are found to be sufficient. A 
convenient and simple form of bath is that adopted by the 
Boston school. The bath closet is constructed of marble, 
and measures 3 feet by 3J feet and 6 feet high. There is no 
door, but a sliding rubber curtain hangs in front. An iron 
pipe supplies the water and descends vertically about half- 
way down the closet. On this is fixed a rubber tube, with 
a spray at the end, which reaches to the floor of the closet. 
The bather can vary the amount and the direction of the 
water, but the temperature is kept at 90 F. Dressing 



SANITARY APPLIANCES. 



103 



closets are made slightly smaller than the bath> The 
average cost for both is said to be under twopence, but 
there is no reason why it should not be reduced to about 
one halfpenny per bath. 

The floor of the bath should be of asphalt or lead slop- 
ing towards the waste outlet, which should be on one side 
or at the back. The waste pipes must be treated in the 
same way as has already been described for lavatory 
wastes. 

Closet Accommodation. 

There should be no closets in the school building for the 
scholars. Those provided for teachers should be separated 
from the building by cross ventilated lobbies. Each closet 
must be not less than 2 feet 3 inches wide, nor more than 
3 feet, and must be fully lighted and cross ventilated. 
They are best divided by partitions carried up 6 feet only. 
Doors, if any, should be separated from the threshold by 
at least 4 inches, and from the head by at least 6 inches. 
The number of closets required by the Education Depart- 
ment is given by the following table : 





Number of Closets. 




For Girls. 


For Boys. 


For Infants. 


"Under 30 children. 


2 


1 


2 


50 


3 


2 


3 


70 


4 


2 


3 


100 


5 


3 


4 


150 


6 


3 


5 


200 


7 


4 


6 


300 


8 


5 


7 






Urinals in proportion. 



104 



SANITARY APPLIANCES. 



The above numbers should certainly be exceeded where- 
ever possible. The buildings and approaches to them 
must be wholly separate for the two sexes. 

The floor should slope towards the door, and must be 
made of blue bricks set in cement or asphalt, so that it 
will dry rapidly after the daily washing which it must 
receive. 

The walls should be lined with glazed bricks, and all 
corners should be rounded off. 

Kind of Closet. 

Where there is a proper water supply some system of 
water-closets must be provided, but if the public water 
supply is deficient or if there is no public supply, as is 
the case in country districts, the earth-closet should be 
used. 

Earth-Closet. 



The principle upon which this depends is that faecal 
matter, with which dry earth has been mixed, becomes not 
only inoffensive, but after a short time, unrecognisable as 
such. This absorbent and deodorising action of earth is 
dependent upon minute organisms or bacteria which are in 
the soil. These effect the conversion of nitrogenous matter 
into ammoniacal compounds, and these, by processes of 
oxidation are resolved into nitrites and nitrates. The best 
soils for this purpose are moderately dry and loose loams, 
garden soils, dry clay, and brick earth. Sand, gravel, and 
chalk are unsuitable and inefficient. The method of use is 
to cover each stool at once with one and a half pounds of 
dry earth. This is found to be sufficient to remove all 
smell and to form a " compost " which is suitable for 
potting plants, but is by no means a rich or valuable 
manure. When the pail is full its contents may either be 



SANITARY APPLIANCES. 



105 



applied at once to the garden or removed to a dry shed 
where, after frequent turning over and exposure to the air, 
the earth may be used again as many as eight or ten times. 
Automatic closets, which apply a measured quantity of 
dry earth at each use, are obtainable. One is shown in 
Fig. 44. The handle of the closet is connected with a 



LID 




Fig. 44. 

AVTOMATIC EARTH Crossr. 

receptacle behind and above the seat, which delivers the 
regulated quantity into the pail when it is raised. 

The earth-closet requires the closest attention and the 
most constant supervision if it is to be quite free from 
smell. It should never be placed inside a school. The 
personal attention which it requires and the difficulty of 



106 



SANITARY APPLIANCES. 



disposing of the large bulk of residue should prevent this 
method from ever being adopted in towns. 

It must be remembered that earth-closets require the 
services of a special attendant to remove the soil, provide a 
fresh supply, and to prepare a stock of dry soil in the store- 
house for use during the winter. The head master should 
inspect them every day and see that things are properly 
attended to. There is a difficulty with children because 
they will play with the hopper they like to see the action. 
This can only be obviated by the supervision of the teachers 
themselves. 

Water-closets. 

For school purposes the most satisfactory closets are the 
short hopper with a flushing rim or a pedestal form of 




Fig. 45. 

PEDESTAL (HOPPER TTPE) WITH FLUSHING RIM. 

wash-down closet. Each closet should have its own 
flushing cistern. It is more usual to provide trough 
closets with automatic flush cisterns, but it should be con- 
sidered a necessary part of a child's education to know how 



SANITARY APPLIANCES. 



107 



to use, and not abuse, an ordinary water-closet. All joints 
must be tested thoroughly before they are passed, and 
every precaution should be taken to ensure that the work 
is done in a first-rate manner. 

Trough Closets. 

The usual form of water-closet for school purposes 
is the trough closet. If properly looked after they 
are fairly satisfactory, but it is a common experience to 
visit schools where these closets are foul smelling and in a 
disgusting condition. As a matter of fact all closets are 




Fig. 46. 

TROUGH CLOSET. 

liable to become a disgrace to the school unless they are 
personally inspected by the head teacher every day. Such 
inspection should be made in the interests of the school 
and the scholars. An inculcation of maxims connected 
with the observance of decency in these places will have a 
good effect upon the children in every way, and -is really 
an important part of their education, and any teacher who 
fails in this duty is neglecting an important branch of the 
child's instruction. 

A form of trough closet is shown in Fig. 46. It is 



103 SANITARY APPLIANCES. 

simply a series of closets with a common flush. The 
trough should be of stoneware, and slopes downwards 
towards the outlet. At the end of the trough its floor 
turns upwards so that there is always a depth of from, one 
to four inches of water in it. At the upper end of the 
trough, and four or five feet above it, is an automatic flush 
tank which should be arranged to discharge every six 
hours at least. The frequency of the flush is arranged by 
regulating the tap. Cases are unfortunately common 
where the cistern is discharged once or twice a week. The 
lower end of the trough connects with a siphon trap, the 
opening of which should be protected by bars with inter- 
vals wide enough to allow all ordinary matter to pass, but 
sufficiently close to prevent unsuitable articles being swept 
into the trap and blocking it. 

One disadvantage of the trough closet is that the sides 
of the trough are liable to become foul by splashing and, 
if not periodically cleaned, will give rise to nuisance. The 
noise of the sudden flush is also somewhat alarming if the 
seat happens to be occupied at the time. Even with the 
most careful management it is practically impossible to 
maintain such a standard of cleanliness as can be secured 
where separate closets are employed, and all education 
authorities would be well advised to substitute ordinary 
water-closets for all trough closets in their district. No 
deodorisers should be permitted in closets, as they are merely 
palliative, and serve only to disguise and cover some evil 
which ought to be remedied. If there is any offensive 
smell in the closets there is something wrong either with 
the closets or their management. 

Soil Pipe. 

Mention has already been made that any water-closets 
in the school must be separated from the main 



8ANITAEY APPLIANCES. 109 

building by cross ventilated lobbies. In schools of more 
than one storey it is usual and convenient to place such 
water-closets above each other. The soil pipes, or pipes 
which carry the excreta from the water-closet to the 
drain, must be altogether outside the building, and venti- 
lated by being continued, without any bend or alteration 
in diameter, above the eaves. Their termination should 
be protected by a wire cage to prevent their occupation by 
birds' nests. The best material for the soil pipe is drawn- 
lead. If iron pipes are used they must be of the water- 
main type, with caulked lead joints. A diameter of four 
inches is the most satisfactory size. Soil pipes are 
excellent drain ventilators, and there should therefore be 
no trap at the bottom. 

There is always a risk of traps becoming unsealed by 
siphonage : particularly when one closet is immediately 
above another, using the same soil pipe. To avoid this it 
is necessary to fix an air pipe to the top of the siphon 
bend. In single water-closets it is only necessary to carry 
this pipe upwards through the wall to the outside, where it 
may be connected with the soil pipe, but if other closets 
are above, a special ventilating pipe must connect together 
all these air pipes and enter the soil pipe above the level of 
the highest closet. 

Urinals. 

All surfaces with which the urine comes in contact must 
be smooth and non- absorbent, the best materials being 
plate-glass, glazed earthenware, and slate. There should 
be either a continuous flow of water over such surfaces or 
an automatic flush of water at very short intervals. Dukes 
recommends a plate- glass trough, nine inches wide and 
six inches deep, kept full of water, and fitted with a self- 
acting outlet. Such urinals are devoid of smell. It is an 



HO SANITARY APPLIANCES. 

unfortunate but obvious fact that, owing to bad construc- 
tion and lack of care, school urinals are often unsanitary 
and offensive in the highest degree. There is no excuse 
whatever for such a condition in those districts which have 
a plentiful public water supply. 

Special closets for use as urinals by girls should always 
be provided where earth closets are used. Otherwise the 
proper treatment of the contents of the pails is seriously 
hampered by the excess of liquid. 

Cesspools. 

A cesspool would only be permissible for a school in a 
district with an excellent public water supply, so that 
water-closets are possible, but where there are no public 
sewers. Such districts are very rare. If there is no public 
water supply, or if it is inadequate, earth closets should be 
provided. Also if there are no public sewers the district 
must be somewhat rural, and here again earth closets 
would be the best arrangement. 

If a cesspool system is regarded as indispensable, the 
cesspool must be as far removed from the school and 
playground as possible, be fenced in, properly ventilated, 
and perfectly watertight. It is somewhat beyond the 
scope of this book to give details of the necessary con- 
struction and management. 



CHAPTER VI. 



SCHOOL FITTINGS. 
DESKS. 

THE problem of the desk is still with us, but is, perhaps, 
nearing solution, or at all events proper appreciation. 
Excellent desks are now made which will give fairly 
satisfactory results if the teacher thoroughly grasps the 
principle that the maximum length of time at a stretch 
that a child should remain seated in any form of desk is 
one hour, and that periods of half or three quarters of an 
hour are much to be preferred to the longer period. In 
fact there are few desks that will injure a child if the time 
during which they are occupied is strictly limited. The 
habit, which probably still prevails in some schools, of 
keeping children seated for a whole morning of about three 
hours has undoubtedly been the cause of a great deal of 
deformity and ill-health. Up to the age of fourteen the 
sitting posture should be regarded merely as a conve- 
nience, which is, nevertheless, unhealthy and unnatural for 
children. If this fact is properly appreciated there will 
be universal limitation of sitting- down periods to three- 
quarters of an hour, with intervals of play and of lessons 
given with the children standing upright. The ideal desk 

111 



112 



SCHOOL FITTINGS. 



is probably still an unsolved problem, but that is no reason 
why the most elementary and obvious rules concerning 
desks should be systematically ignored by so many 
education authorities even of large and important boroughs 
and districts. A desk should be just as accurately fitted 
for the child as its clothes are, and children require just 
as great a variation in desk sizes as they do in the 
measurements of their garments. A visit to the ordinary 
elementary school shows hundreds of children sitting in 
desks which are obviously unsuitable for them, and which 
cause them to bend their spines to the left, as well as to 
stoop forward with chest contracted, heart and lungs com- 
pressed, and cramped abdominal viscera. 

It is necessary to remember that children of the same 
age and in the same standard at school vary greatly in 
height, a fact that is obviously unappreciated by the 
Board of Education, because the Eules for Elementary 
schools say " seats and desks should be graduated 
according to ages" Some interesting figures have been 
obtained by Bowditch as illustrating this important fact: 



Age. 


Sex. 


Height, 


Difference. 


6 years 


Boys 


From to 
40... 47 inches 


6J inches 




Girls 


40f..47i 


7 


11 


Boys 


49J...57J 


8 




G-irls 


49J...58 


8i 


15 


Boys 


56i..68 


Hi 




G-irls 


57J...65 


7i 



Another important point is the variation in the rate of 
growth at different ages. Girls grow most rapidly between 



SCHOOL FITTINGS. 113 

twelve and fourteen years of age, while boys grow most 
from fourteen to sixteen. Still another matter to be 
allowed for is the greater " sitting height " of girls com- 
pared with boys of the same total stature. A very small 
amount of thought, therefore, should convince anyone that 
desks must be adjusted to the children, and that to order 
a roomful of desks all the same size for each standard 
is just as ridiculous, and far more harmful than to order 
the same sized clothes for all these children. It is by no 
means uncommon, in towns that pride themselves in being 
quite up-to-date, to find children who vary a foot in height 
sitting in desks of exactly the same size. 

If the desk is of suitable size and structure it will allow 
the child to sit in accordance with the following con- 
ditions : 

1. The two ischial tuberosities rest equally on the seat. 

2. The body is erect, and the back supported. 

3. The head is in such a position that a line joining the 
centres of gravity of the head and the body bisects the line 
between the two ischial tuberosities. 

4. The thighs are horizontal, the legs vertical, and the 
feet rest flat on the floor. 

In this position there is the greatest possible economy 
of energy because the body is symmetrical and equally 
balanced. With the body so placed the eyes most easily 
look forwards and downwards. To raise them in order to 
look horizontally forward requires an effort. The least 
possible work will be given the eyes if the reading matter 
rests on a desk at an angle of 45 with the horizon, because 
in this position the bottom of the page will be at the same 
distance from the eye as the upper part, and the eye will 
be able to read all the type thereon without changing its 
focus to any appreciable extent. 

For writing, however, a desk top at an angle of 45 
PHY. HYG. 8 



114 SCHOOL FITTINGS. 

would have serious disadvantages. For instance, the ink 
would not flow properly from the pen at this angle, and 
moreover the arms and hands would have to be held in an 
irksome and tiring position. The most convenient slant 
for the writing-desk is an angle of 15 with the horizontal. 
The only objection to such a slope is that the lower part of 
the page will be nearer the eye than the upper portion 
The surface of the desk must be adjusted to such a height 
that the forearms may be easily placed upon it by moving 
the elbows three or four inches away from the sides. 

VARIETIES OF DESKS. 

In describing desks there are certain terms applied to 
different measurements. 

1. The vertical distance from the edge of the desk to the 
level of the seat is called the " difference." This measure- 
ment should be such as to bring the edge of the desk 




DESK PLUS DESK MINUS DESK 

Fig. 47. 
RELATION OF SEAT TO DESK. 

opposite the navel of the pupil. The child will then be 
able to place the arms on the desk by moving the elbows 
slightly away from the sides. 

2. The measurement from the edge of the seat to the 
vertical line dropped from the edge of the desk is called 
-the " distance." This classifies desks into three varieties : 
(1) The " plus " desk, i.e. where there is a space between the 
edge of the seat and the vertical line from the desk. (2) The 



SCHOOL FITTINGS. 115 

1 zero " desk, i.e. where the edge of the seat touches the 
vertical line from the desk. (3) The " minus " desk, i.e. 
where the vertical from the desk passes through the seat. 

For writing the desk which involves the least deviation 
from the ideal position described above is the minus one. 
Nevertheless it is exceedingly common to find large schools 
without a single minus desk. The common desk is the plus 
variety, the use of which causes various ill effects : (a) The 
head and body are thrown forward so that the thorax, 




Fig. 48. 
COMMON POSITION FOE WRITING u A PLUS DESK. 

lungs, heart, and abdominal viscera are pressed upon and 
cramped. (6) The abdominal wall is folded and the viscera 
pressed out of place, thereby interfering with the functions 
of the different organs, (c) The vertical line from the centre 
of gravity of the body falls in front of the line joining the 
ischial tuberosities. This causes part of the weight of 
the body to be borne by the part of the thigh resting on 
the anterior edge of the seat, and some also by the elbows 
on the desk, (d) The effort of holding the head and body 



116 SCHOOL FITTINGS. 

in this position is a waste of energy, there being no balance. 
The muscles of the neck tire, and the head droops down. 
Fatigue is thus rapidly brought on. (e) The bending for- 
ward of the head, brings the object nearer than twelve inches 
from the eyes, as well as causing congestion round those 
organs. If the desk is too low for the child the above 
effects are intensified. 




Fig. 49 
DESK AND SKAT ARRANGED IN MINUS POSITION. 

The minus desk is undoubtedly the best for school use, 
but will only give satisfactory results if each child has the 
right size of desk for its requirements. The amount to 
which the desk overlaps the seat must be adjusted so that 
the edge of the desk just touches the child's abdomen 
without pressing upon it. If a fixed minus desk is used it 
is apt to become somewhat tiring owing to the shut in 
sensation it imparts and the absence of free movements. 



SCHOOL FITTINGS. 117 

Standing up is also irksome. Many of these desks have, 
therefore, been devised with the middle hinged, in order 
that the lower part may be lifted up and folded back 
on itself, so that the under surface is now turned up at 
an angle of 45 and presents the ideal desk for reading. 
In this position it is a plus or zero desk, and the reading 
matter is a little over twelve inches from the eyes of the 
pupil. Sometimes the seats are made to turn vertical in 
order to allow the child to stand. This plan, however, 
involves the use of the same shaped desk for reading and 
writing. As an alternative to the jointed desk-top there 
is the desk with a sliding top. In its ordinary position it is 
a plus or zero desk, but the top will slide down towards 
the child and so become one of the minus variety. It is 
undoubtedly desirable that a desk should be adjustable 
for plus and minus distances. A small plus distance gives 
a child more freedom of movement, and enables him to 
rise from the desk and to sit down with much greater ease. 



DESK ADJUSTMENT. 

In almost all schools, from the highest to the humblest, 
the bodies of scholars have to accommodate themselves 
to fixed seats and benches. The evil results of such 
a system appear later in the form of eye and spinal 
trouble, as well as consumption. Not only is it most 
harmful in the case of young children, but the injury and 
inconvenience is also very pronounced in the case of 
youths and young men and women who attend technical 
and evening classes held in elementary school buildings. 
This aspect of the case is often ignored, and the writer 
well remembers one instance where, after protests had 
been received on behalf of such adult students, members 
of the local education authority denounced the " luxurious 



118 



SCHOOL FITTINGS. 



tendency " of the present race of students. Eeal progress 
must necessarily be slow in the face of gross ignorance and 
petty economy. 

Most of the adjustable desks at present on the market 
possess merely a vertical movement, and the height is 
laboriously altered and fixed by means of a key, a screw, 
or a pinion. These methods have the serious defects that 
they are not easily adjustable and also are very liable to 
injure the hands and fingers of those who attempt to 
manipulate them. Adjustable desks of better and more 
convenient patterns are now being produced. 

It should be distinctly understood that for day schools 
an adjustable desk will no longer be a necessity when the 
time-tables are under the control of medical men who have 
made a special study of hygiene as applied to child life. 
With three sizes of desks and seats for the ordinary 
standards it is possible to fit 95 per cent, of ordinary 
children sufiiciently exactly to produce no ill effects if 
the children are kept seated in them for short periods 
only. But if the present system is maintained, then the 
adjustable desk is a necessity. Mr. Priestley Smith 
considers that four sizes of desks are desirable, and gives 
the following scale : 



Height of 
Scholar. 


Height of 
seat 
from floor. 


Width of 
seat. 


Height of desk 
and back from 
seat. 


31 to 4 feet 


13 ins. 


10 ins. 


8 ins. 


4 41 


14i,, 


11 


8f 


4* ,, 5 


16 


12 


9J,, 


5 51 


18 


13 


ioi,, 



SCHOOL FITTINGS. U9 

The old-fashioned private school inflicted far less 
physical injury upon the children than the public 
elementary school of to-day. In such schools at least 
half the children stood while receiving instruction, and, 
chiefly owing probably to a deficiency of desk accommoda- 
tion, the period of each child's occupation of a desk was 
brief. It cannot be too often repeated that the possibility 
of injury resulting from the use of any desk is very 
remote if the time of occupation is made short. 

Under present conditions each desk must be accurately 
adjusted to the needs of the child who has to use it. This 
being the case, it is indispensable that every desk and every 
seat should be adjustable. The desk seat must be of such 
a height that the thigh of the pupil is exactly horizontal 
when the leg is vertical and the foot resting flat on the 
floor. In such a position, obviously, the knee is bent at a 
right angle. In order to obtain such conditions for every 
child it is necessary that the seat should be adjustable to 
quarter inches. The front edge of the seat must be 
rounded off in order to prevent pressure upon the blood 
vessels and nerves of the thigh. For additional comfort 
and also in order to counteract the tendency to slide 
forward, the seat should be hollowed out to a depth of 
about f inch, the concavity commencing 1J inch from the 
front edge of the seat, and deepest where the ischial 
tuberosities rest. The width of the seat should be at least 
two-thirds of the length of the child's thigh. 

Each seat should be provided with a proper back, 
presenting a concave surface forward, and extending 
sufficiently far up the back to afford support to the lower 
parts of the shoulder blades. 

Each child is measured carefully, so that the seat may 
be adjusted accurately to its requirements. The knee is 
bent at a right angle, while the foot rests squarely on the 



120 SCHOOL FITTINGS. 

floor, and the distance from the floor to the under side of 
the thigh near the knee is measured. This measurement 
is best made with special measuring rods for that purpose. 
These consist of a vertical scale with a sliding horizontal 
arm which is raised until it touches the under surface of 
the thigh. 

Foot-rests are unnecessary and undesirable. By pre- 
venting free movement of the feet and legs they tend to 
increase the liability to cramp and stiffness. Another 
objectionable feature is that they prevent thorough 
cleaning of the floor. 

The desk tops must be adjusted so that the child, 
when in the position for writing, does not bend the spine 
or have the shoulders raised. The edge of the desk should 
touch the navel, and the forearms should rest easily on the 
top without moving the elbows more than three or four 
inches from the sides. 

It is desirable that all desks should be adjusted 
carefully twice a year, and the best times are March and 
September. No desk that can only be adjusted with 
difficulty should be allowed. 

Single or Multiple Desks. 

The Board of Education in the Eules for Elementary 
Schools distinctly discourage single desks, apparently on 
the ground of expense. According to these rules desks 
12 feet long are permitted, and eight children (and even 
nine infants) are allowed to be packed on such a desk. 
Surely such rules must have been framed by people who 
have no knowledge whatever of the simplest hygienic 
principles. Under such circumstances it is no wonder 
that occasionally schools serve as hot-beds of infectious 
diseases, and that as a general rule most children are free 
from disease until they begin to attend school. Even 



SCHOOL FITTINGS. 121 

dual desks should be discouraged, not only on account of 
the increased possibilities of the spread of infection that 
they bring about, but also as tending to produce contorted 
attitudes. Entirely separate desks are undoubtedly the 
best, but if economy must be studied the Sheffield system 
should be adopted. These are long desks (without seats 
attached) of half a dozen places and are used with separate 
pedestal chairs. The advantages claimed for such an 
arrangement are : 

1. That the seats are isolated. 

2. Each child is accessible. 

3. Each child can stand up in its place, and drill can 
be taken for a minute or two with the children in their 
places. 

4. The rooms cannot be overcrowded. 

5. The cleaning operations are very much simplified. 
Such an arrangement demands about 1,000 square inches 
of floor space per seat. 

Infants. 

For the young children the most suitable plan is to 
have flat tables or desks, and it is undoubtedly an advan- 
tage to provide sufficient of these to accommodate half 
the children only, so that the other half are compelled to 
stand. Those standing may do blackboard or other work, 
and take turn and turn about with those seated. For 
children under six years no desks should be provided at 
all ; the babies should play about on the floor, or stools 
could be provided that they could move about themselves. 
It is very interesting to note that these babies are allowed 
for recreation a quarter of an hour in the morning and 
ten minutes in the afternoon. Is it to be wondered at 
that consumption continues to be such a dreadful scourge 
among young adults who have passed through the ordeal 



122 



SCHOOL FITTINGS. 



of such an " education," or that the subject of physical 
degeneration of the race is assuming a most serious 
aspect? 

ARRANGEMENT OF DESKS. 

The desks should be arranged in the lightest part of the 
room, i.e. near the windows. It is advisable to arrange 
the desks so that the scholars face the long way of the 



a a a a a a 

a a a a a a 

a a a a a a 

a a a a a CD 

a a a a a a 

a a a a a a 

a a a a a a 

a a a a a a 



Fig. 50. 

DESKS ARRANGED IN CLASS-ROOM. 



room, in order to avoid as far as possible a foreshortened 
view of any apparatus shown them, or maps or diagrams 
on the blackboard. The typical class-room mentioned 
earlier in the book measured 25 x 30 feet. Such a room 
should accommodate 40 scholars only, whether the school 
be an elementary or a secondary one. The gangways 
mentioned in the Board of Education Eegulations are 
16 inches between dual desks, and 18 inches between 



SCHOOL FITTINGS. 123 

multiple desks. Single desks with gangways of 15 or 16 
inches should be introduced into every school. 

BLACKBOARDS. 

The slate blackboard should be preferred to all other 
kinds because it can be washed without injury. The slate 
should be of a green or black colour. All teachers should 
remember that the inhalation of chalk dust is most in- 
jurious and may tend to predispose to consumption. For 
this reason it is advisable to always use a slightly damp 
duster. After a few trials it will be quite easy to obtain 
just that degree of dampness of the duster that will suffice 
to prevent the wafting of any chalk dust in the air, and 
yet will not appreciably wet the surface of the blackboard. 

Blackboards should be all round the available walls of 
the room. There cannot be too much blackboard in any 
class-room. One of the best methods of preventing or 
affording relief from cramp and fatigue is to send scholars 
in batches to the blackboard to write various exercises. 
The width of the board should be 4 feet, and the height 
from the floor varied from 26 inches to 36 inches according 
to the size of the children who are to use the room. An 
excellent plan is to provide a trough about 2 to 3 inches wide 
at the bottom of the board and covered with an open wire 
cover. Most of the dust will fall into this trough and can 
be periodically removed. 

Teachers' Platforms. 

A platform for the teacher's desk and chair is un- 
doubtedly a great convenience, especially to teachers of 
small stature. They are, however, unsanitary, because 
dust and dirt collect all round and beneath them. They 
also seriously interfere with the free movement of pupils 
about the room and at the blackboards. 



124 SCHOOL FITTINGS. 

SCHOOL CLEANING. 

I. Desks. 

It should be clearly understood that desks and seats 
accumulate grease and dirt rapidly, and that regular 
cleaning is necessary if it is desired that they should not 
become dangerous to health. Every desk and seat should 
be cleaned thoroughly with paraffin oil during each of the 
three vacations. 

II. Windows. 

Dirty windows not only decrease the amount of light 
that can enter the room, but also tend to render useless 
and ridiculous any instruction given by the teacher upon 
general cleanliness. It cannot be too often repeated that 
the teaching of hygiene will never produce much real 
effect upon the mass of the children until the schools 
themselves are object-lessons on this subject. 

III. Walls. 

The walls, which should be painted, must be thoroughly 
washed down during each of the three vacations, and it 
may be necessary to wipe them over more frequently as 
high as the scholars can reach, There should be no ledges 
or projections where dust can lodge, but if there are they 
should be carefully cleaned at the three thorough cleanings 
each year. 

IV. Floors. 

Every floor should be thoroughly swept at the close of 
each day that the school is occupied. Such cleaning is best 
carried out with all doors and windows widely open. The 
floors should be first liberally sprinkled with wet sawdust, 
and a wet broom should always be used. In many schools 



SCHOOL FITTINGS. 125 

no such care is taken to prevent the dust rising in the air, 
and where sawdust is used the quantity supplied is quite 
inadequate. A visit to such schools at the time when the 
daily " cleaning " is finished will reveal an atmosphere like 
a- fog. Such conditions are injurious to the sweepers, and 
the dust so scattered in the air settles down on floors, 
desks, shelves, walls, etc., and adds to the general dirtiness 
and unhealthiness of the school. In fact it would pro- 
bably be better to clean it thoroughly once a week than to 
go through such a farce as is usually represented by the 
daily " cleaning." Dust should be regarded as a most 
potent cause of ill health, and every effort should be made 
to prevent a dusty atmosphere in schools. 



PART II. 
THE SCHOLAE. 

CHAPTER I. 

INTRODUCTORY. 

THE substance of the body when examined with the 
higher powers of a microscope are seen to consist of special 
structural elements embedded in an intercellular substance 
or matrix. 

The structural elements are either cells or fibres which 
have been derived from cells. In some instances the inter- 
cellular substance consists of a finely granular or homo- 
geneous substance in which the cells are embedded, more 
or less like currants in a cake, whilst in others it is present 
only in small quantities, just sufficient to act as a cement 
connecting the cells together, like the mortar between 
bricks. 

Cells. 

The cells vary in diameter, usually between ^^ and 
g^-Q-Q inch, and are made of a jelly-like substance called 
protoplasm. A small dark body near the centre of the 
cell is called the nucleus. This takes up colouring matters 
more readily than the ordinary protoplasm, and so in 
stained specimens under the microscope it appears more 
deeply coloured than the remainder of the cell. In many 
cases the cell is bounded by an external membrane, but 
this is not always present. 

126 



INTRODUCTORY. 127 

Protoplasm in an active state has the power to bring 
about important changes in the blood or lymph with which 
it comes in contact. All over the body the protoplasm of 
cells absorbs oxygen from the surrounding lymph and gives 
up carbon dioxide, heat and energy being set free. In 
special glands (mammary, peptic, etc.) the protoplasm of 
the cells is capable of manufacturing special substances 
(milk, pepsine, etc.), and in other instances it exercises a 
selective action on the blood, e.g. in the kidneys the epi- 
thelial cells select urea from the blood. 

All these changes which go on in protoplasm are included 
in the term " metabolism." 

Cells are constantly being worn out and new cells are 
formed to take their place. These new cells are formed 
by the division of existing cells. 

Structure and Function. 



The simpler organisms are composed of one or more 
cells which are alike, but when organisms of a higher order 
are examined it is found that some differentiation of 
structure has taken place, and that some cells have taken 
over some of the work of the body and other cells other 
work, constituting a division of labour. In man, the most 
complicated and highly developed part of creation, this 
differentiation of structure and subdivision of labour has 
been carried out to the greatest extent, with the result that 
many kinds of specially developed cells are found in the 
human body, grouped together into different materials or 
tissues, such as the epithelial, the connective, the muscular, 
the fatty, and the nervous tissues. 

Every cell is directly or indirectly connected with every 
other cell by means of the thread-like processes (nerves) 
of the nerve-cells of the brain and spinal cord. In this 
way the physical condition of one set of cells may influence 



128 INTRODUCTORY. 

the activity of another set at a distance. The nerves and 
nerve-cells are therefore the means whereby the scattered 
communities of cells are united together to form the com- 
plicated mechanism that we call a body. 

By means of this division of labour, one tissue directs 
and controls, another moves in obedience to command, a 
third secretes or manufactures some useful liquid, a fourth 
distributes food and collects waste, another gets rid of 
waste, and so on. In this way each cell does its own par- 
ticular work and no other, and all work together for the 
.good of the whole. 

In their turn varying amounts of the tissues are grouped 
together to form organs and systems which undertake 
special functions. The chief systems are : 

The Circulatory System. 

This includes the heart and the blood-vessels with their 
contents. The heart is the great central pump of the cir- 
culation, and in health it beats with perfect regularity, 
almost as if it were kept going by clockwork ! We shall 
see (Chapter III.) that it is more wonderfully constructed 
than- a mere machine, for although it acts automatically 
yet it is able to adjust itself at a moment's notice to the 
ever-varying conditions of the body, whereby more vigor- 
ous work may be required of it at one time than at another. 
At each beat, the blood within it is forced or squeezed out 
through certain parts or vessels, known as arteries. These 
tubes distribute the vital fluid to every part of the body. 
Soon after the two main vessels leave the heart, they give 
off branches, and these, again, divide and subdivide into 
smaller branches. 

It is important to bear in mind that the Hood inside an 
artery is always /lowing away from the heart. 

A very minute artery is called an arteriole, and this 



INTRODTTCTOBY. 



129 




Fig. 51. 
BLOOD- 
CAPILLARIES. 



eventually splits up into the smallest possible blood-vessel, 
known as a capillary. This can only be seen by the aid of 
a microscope, being considerably finer than 
a hair. It is by means of blood-capillaries 
that the living cells of the body are fed, 
for the walls of these tiny tubes are so 
exceedingly fine that the nourishing con- 
stituents of the blood can actually pass 
out through them. In this manner, every 
organ and tissue receives its food, or, as it 
is called, its " blood-supply." 

The waste-products of the cells them- 
selves are discharged into the capillaries and carried away 
by the blood-stream. The capillaries speedily unite with 

one another, forming other 
minute vessels called venules. 
These join with others, so that 
larger and larger tubes are 
gradually formed, known as 
veins. They run in company 
with the arteries, but the Hood 
within them is flawing, of 
course, in an opposite direc- 
tion, i.e. towards the heart. 
Entering the upper part of 
the right side of that organ, 
the venous blood, which is 
impure and dark purple in 
colour, is despatched at the 
next heart-beat through a 
large blood-vessel to the 
lungs. Here it undergoes a 
complete transformation, becoming purified and, mean- 
while, changing its colour to a bright scarlet. The arterial 




Fig. 52. 

SCHEME OF BLOOD-CIRCULATION. 
7, heart; S, systemic, or "greater," 
circulation ; P, pulmonary, or 
" lesser," circulation. The arrows 
indicate the general direction of 
the blood-stream. 



PHY. HYQ. 



9 



130 INTRODUCTORY. 

blood, as it is then termed, is brought back again to the 
heart, being now in a fit state to start upon its next jour- 
ney round the body. 

A reference to Fig. 52 will show that there are two " cir- 
culations," as it were one through the body, the other to 
the lungs and back only. These are known as the " greater " 
and the " lesser " circulations respectively, though, of 
course, the whole of the blood in the body must traverse 
both these routes in turn. 

The Respiratory System. 

The object of breathing is to oxygenate the blood, i.e. to 
supply it with the needful oxygen, at the same time allow- 
ing the poisonous carbon dioxide within it to escape. As 
the atmospheric air is breathed in, it proceeds along certain 
channels known as air-passages. These are divided into 
upper and lower. The former comprise the nose, with 
its internal cavities (nares), and the upper part of the 
windpipe (trachea). The latter include the two main 
divisions of the windpipe, the bronchi, and their sub- 
divisions. 

The organs of respiration are the two Lungs situated 
within the chest-cavity. They are somewhat spongy bodies, 
consisting of an enormous number of minute cavities, called 
air-cells, which are the blind endings of the smallest 
possible bronchial tubes. Over the walls of these air-cells, 
which are exceedingly thin, is spread a fine network of 
minute blood-vessels, the pulmonary capillaries. In this 
manner the oxygen contained within the lungs inhaled by 
the breath is able to pass directly into the blood, and, at 
the same time, the carbon dioxide can find its way out of 
the capillaries into the air-cells, from whence it is exhaled, 

This process, like that of the circulation, is quite auto- 
matic, and it takes place in health unconsciously. The act 



INTRODUCTORY. 131 

of breathing itself is regularly performed, the lungs ex- 
panding with each inspiration (breathing in) and relaxing 
with each expiration (breathing out). 

The Digestive System. 

The food which is taken into the body, be it ever so 
nourishing, cannot be of the slightest use for building up 
the tissues until it has first gone through the several pro- 
cesses which constitute digestion. This consists, essentially, 
of a series of changes wrought upon the chief chemical 
constituents of the food by the action of four principal 
fluids or juices, prepared by organs called glands. Each 
juice, or secretion, as it is termed, is poured upon the food 
in turn. The object of this is to transform the nourishing 
ingredients into a state in which they can be readily 
absorbed into the system. Many of these processes involve 
highly complex chemical reactions, the net result of which 
is a splitting-up of the food-principles into simpler bodies. 
The majority of these changes can be easily studied outside 
the body in a test-tube. 

The whole passage along which the food passes is called 
the alimentary canal. The chief parts of this digestive 
tube are, in order, the mouth, the pharynx (the back of the 
throat), the oesophagus or gullet, the stomach, the small 
and the large intestines (bowels). The principal organs 
which discharge their secretions upon the food as it is 
moved along this canal are the salivary glands, the 
stomach, the liver, and the pancreas or sweetbread. How 
and in what parts these different juices are brought to bear 
upon the food we shall study in Chapter Y. 

The absorption of nutritive material is carried out chiefly 
in the small intestine, while that which is of no value is 
rejected and ultimately cast out of the body. 



132 INTRODUCTORY. 

The Excretory System. 

It is a cardinal rule in physiology that waste-matters 
must be cleared away and disposed of as soon as possible. 
The active life of every cell in the body is necessarily 
accompanied by the production of a certain amount of 
refuse or waste-material like the ashes of a furnace 
which it is imperative to remove quickly if the vital action 
of the tissues is to continue unhindered. The process of 
excretion consists in the separation and removal of such 
harmful substances, and the chief organs which perform 
this work are the Kidneys. These two renal organs, as 
they are termed, are situated deeply in the loins, one on 
either side. Their work is to separate from the blood a 
liquid, the urine, in which are dissolved the chief waste- 
products of cell-activity. The urinary bladder receives the 
urine as it is excreted by the kidneys, and from this 
receptacle it is expelled from time to time. 

The skin, also, excretes a watery fluid, the sweat, which 
likewise contains waste-products. 

The Muscular System. 

The muscles of the body, especially those found in the 
limbs and trunk, form the fleshy parts. The lean of meat 
is made up entirely of muscle. A typical muscle may be 
looked upon as a bundle of fibres, each possessing the 
power of shortening itself and, therefore, of bringing the 
opposite ends of the whole bundle nearer together. This 
shortening or contraction, as it is usually called, is followed 
by a return to its original length, or relaxation. A muscle 
is something like a piece of elastic, except that it has the 
power within itself to stretch or to contract. 

Change of position or movement is the general outcome 
of muscular contraction. We might call the muscles, 



INTRODUCTORY. 133 

then, the organs of locomotion. Those attached to the 
bony skeleton move only in response to the commands 
given them by the brain or the will the connection 
between the two being effected by means of the nerves 
hence they are called voluntary muscles. Others, such as 
those found in the wall of the stomach, are quite inde- 
pendent of the will. These are the involuntary muscles. 

The Nervous System. 

Without some central directing and controlling me- 
chanism no organisation can work without confusion. It 
is so ordained that, in health, no disorder in the working 
of any system, organ, or tissue need arise, for the nervous 
system orders and manages every vital process in the body. 
The Brain, or organ of mind, situated inside the bony 
skull, is the " head-office," or " central telegraphic station," 
as it were. The nervous matter of which the brain is com- 
posed contains a number of special cells, known as nerve- 
cells, and these are grouped together in certain situations 
to form nerve-centres. Here ideas are formulated and 
impulses generated. 

The spinal cord, a thick cable of nervous matter running 
down the brain within the bony spinal column, containing 
chiefly nerve-fibres, acts as the main conductor of nervous 
impulses from the brain to the distant parts of the body. 
It also contains several " sub-offices," or lower nerve- 
centres, which share a small part of the government of 
the body. 

The nerves themselves, which are given off like branches 
from the brain and spinal cord to all parts of the body, 
may be likened to the telegraphic wires. They simply 
transmit messages, either from the brain, where the chief 
business of the body is transacted, to the tissues, or in the 
reverse direction, from distant parts up to head-quarters. 



134 INTRODUCTORY. 

Other nerves, those of special sense, are gifted with the 
power of receiving certain impressions from the outer 
world and of transmitting them to the nerve- cells in the 
brain, where alone they can be really perceived and 
interpreted. 

Thus it is that this vast " kingdom of cells," the human 
body, "is fitly joined together," every part working in 
harmony for the mutual advantage and benefit of the 
whole. 




Fig. 53. 

THE HUMAN SKELETON. 
H, Radius 
J, Ulna. 
J, Carpus. 
A', Metacarpus. 
L, Phalanges (of fingers). 
M, Lumbar Vertebrae. 
N, Ilium. 
0, Sacrum. 

For further illustrations of the Ribs, Thorax, and Pelvis see Chapters II. and III. 
135 



A, Frontal Bone. 

B, Mandible (or Inferior 

Maxilla). 

C, Cervical Vertebrae. 

D, Clavicle. 
S, Scapula. 
F, Sternum. 
Gf, Humerus. 



P, Os Pubis 

Q, Femur. 

R, Patella. 

S, Tibia. 

T, Fibula. 

V. Tarsus. 

W, Metatarsus. 

X, Phalanges (of toes). 



CHAPTER II. 

SKELETON. MUSCLES. BODY TRUNK. 
THE SKELETON. 

THE skeleton serves a double purpose. Primarily it is 
the support of the soft parts, and serves to give the body a 
definite shape or build. Secondly, it affords special pro- 
tection to highly important structures and organs. Thus 
the skull and vertebral column serve as a protective cover- 
ing for the brain and spinal cord, and the ribs form a bony 
framework for the protection of the heart and lungs. 

The Skull. 

Balanced on the top of the vertebral column is the skull. 
It may be divided into two parts : (1) the cranium, which 
is a bony box for the brain ; (2) the face bones. 

The Cranium, as we have said, is a box for the brain. 
It is made up of eight bones very strongly bound together. 
The bones forming the base are very rough and irregular, 
while the front, back, roof, and sides are formed of smooth 
flat bones. Leading into the skull are several openings, 
one large, and the remainder comparatively small. The 
large opening the foramen magnum serves for the 
passage of the spinal cord from the brain into the canal 
provided for it in the vertebral column. Close to this 
opening, one on each side, are two smooth surfaces or 

136 



SKELETON. MUSCLES. BODY TRUNK. 137 

facets which rest upon two similar facets on the first 
vertebra. In the action of nodding these two pairs of 
facets glide upon each other. Through the smaller open- 
ings in the cranium pass the cranial nerves from the brain 
to the various parts of the head and face. 

The Face is made up of fourteen small bones which are 
closely bound either to each other or to the bones of the 




Fig. 54. 

SKOLL (Side View). 

cranium. The lower jaw bone is fastened only at eacn end 
and can be moved about more or less like a door upon 
hinges. 

The Vertebral Column. 

The vertebral or spinal column is the chief support of 
the trunk. It consists of thirty-three bones which are so 
tightly fastened together that only a very small amount of 



138 



SKELETON. MUSCLES. BODY TRUNK. 



movement can take place between any vertebra and its 

neighbour. Taken as 
a whole, however, the 
vertebral column can 
perform very 
movements, and 



Cervical Vertebrae 
1-7 



Dorsal Vertebrae 

8-19 



Lumber 
Vertebrae 
20-24 



Sacrum 

23-29 




wide 
these 

are capable, by practice 
when young, of extra- 
ordinary development, 
as shown by the con- 
tortions of the so-called 
" boneless men." 

Of these thirty-three 
bones which make up 
the vertebral column 
the upper twenty- four 
are always quite sepa- 
rate and distinct from 
each other, but repre- 
senting the lower nine 
vertebrae there are only 
two bones in the adult. 
Five of these nine ver- 
tebrae have united to- 
gether to form a large 
strong bone called the 
sacrum. This is a 
wedge- shape bone with 
the narrow end below. 
To it are fastened the 
hip bones, one on each 
side. The four lowest 
vertebrae have united 
together, and are represented by a small bone, the coccyx, 



Coccyx 

30-33 

Fig. 55. 

THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. 



SKELETON. MUSCLES. BODY TRUNK. 139 

which is attached to the bottom of the sacrum. The 
coccyx is the rudimentary tail in the human body ; in 
animals it consists of a large number of vertebrae. 
The upper twenty-four vertebrae are divided into three 
regions : 

(1) The cervical region (the neck), consisting of seven 
vertebrae. 

(2) The dorsal region (the back), consisting of twelve 
vertebrae. 

(3) The lumbar region (the loins), consisting of five 
vertebrae. 

Viewed from the side it is seen that the vertebral column 
forms four curves. The cervical region forms a curve 
whose concavity points backwards ; the curve formed by 
the dorsal vertebrae faces the opposite way, while that 
formed by the lumbar vertebrae again looks backwards, 
and the sacrum and coccyx unite to form a curve whose 
concavity faces forwards. The vertebrae are bound firmly 
together by ligaments at the articular facets, and by 
numerous other ligaments which pass from process to 
process and arch to arch. Another set of ligaments pass 
from vertebra to vertebra down the front and back of the 
bodies. 

Another means of connection between each vertebra and 
its neighbour are the intervertebral discs which are placed 
between them. Each disc is firmly attached to the body 
of the vertebra above and below. These intervertebral 
discs are composed of cartilage, and serve not only as a 
ligament but also as a cushion or buffer between the 
vertebrae, and thus deaden the force of any concussion 
in just the same way as the buffers fixed to railway 
carriages. 



140 SKELETON. MUSCLES. BODY TBUNK. 

The Ribs and Sternum. . 

The dorsal vertebrae at the back, and the sternum or 
breast bone in front, together with the curved bones con- 
necting them, the ribs, constitute the bony cage called the 
thorax. There are twelve pairs of ribs. Each pair is 



- /5'R/b 



ft- Sternum 




Fig. 56. 
THE BONY THORAX. 

attached to a dorsal vertebra, one on each side of it, and 
the joints by means of which the ribs are attached allow 
movement to take place up and down. This movement 
takes place during respiration. The first ten pairs of ribs 
are attached in front to the sternum by means of cartilages 
the costal cartilages the first five pairs having separate 



SKELETON. MUSCLES. BODY TRUNK. 



141 



costal cartilages, while the second five are united to a single 
cartilage, the sixth. The last two pairs, the eleventh, and 
twelfth, are not attached to the sternum at all, and are 
therefore called floating ribs. These are easily pressed 
inwards by tight lacing. 

The sternum or breast bone is flat and shaped more or 
less like a dagger, being broader above than below. Viewed 
as a whole, the bony thorax is of a conical shape, being 
broader below than above, when not distorted by corsets. 
The intervals between the ribs are called intercostal spaces, 
and are filled up by muscles called the intercostal muscles. 

Shoulder Bones. 

Passing from the top of the sternum to the shoulder is 
the clavicle or collar bone. This bone is curved like the 




Fig. 57. 

THE CLAVICLE. 

italic/, and extends outwards and 
backwards to the shoulder, where 
it is fastened to the outer part of 
the scapula or shoulder blade. 
The scapula is a triangular flat 
bone which lies on the upper ribs, 
at the back of the thorax. It is 
not directly connected with the 
thorax. The outer part of the 
scapula is smooth and hollowed, and forms with the top 
of the arm bone the shoulder joint. Each shoulder is, 
therefore, made up of a clavicle, scapula, and humerus. 
The shoulder joint possesses great mobility, the arm 




, Fig. 58. 

THE LEFT SCAI-DLA (from 
the back). 



142 



SKELETON. MUSCLES. BODY TRUNK. 



being easily moved forwards, backwards, upwards, and 
downwards, in addition to being rotated. This great 

mobility is due 
mainly to the shal- 
lowness of the de- 
pression in the sca- 
pula, and to the 
numerous and pow- 

-Humerus er ^ musc ^ es that 
act upon the joint. 

Upper Limb. 

The arm bone or 
humerus has a large 
rounded upper end, 
the head, which en- 
ters into the forma- 
tion of the shoulder 
joint. The lower 
end is flattened, and 
meets the two bones 
of the forearm at 
the elbow joint. 

The bones of the 
forearm are the ra- 
dius and the ulna. 
The ulna is the in- 
ner bone and is on 
the same side as the 
little finger. The 
point of the elbow 
is formed by the 

hook- shaped end of the ulna. The upper end of this bone 
is much broader than the lower, so that, while it forms a 




Radius 



Fig 59. 

THE SCAPULA AND THK ARM. 



SKELETON. MUSCLES. BODY TRUNK. 143 

great part of the elbow joint, it only has a minor share at 
the wrist joint. 

The radius, on the contrary, is narrow at its upper 
extremity, and much broader below, where it forms the 
greater part of the wrist joint. If the hand be laid with 
its back on a table and then turned over, it will be noticed 
that the thumb describes a semi-circle round the little 
finger. In the forearm it is the radius that describes the 
semicircle round the end of the ulna hence the name 
radius. 

The wrist bones or carpals are eight small bones 
arranged roughly in two rows of four. The hand bones or 
metacarpals are the five long narrow bones that can be 
easily felt at the back of the hand. Attached to the ends 
of these are the phalanges, each finger possessing three 
and the thumb two. 

Hip Bones. 

On each side of the sacrum is fastened a strong irregu- 
larly shaped bone, the hip bone. The hip bones curve 
outwards and then forwards and downwards, finally meet- 
ing each other in front. They inclose a basin-shaped 
cavity called the pelvic cavity. The two hip bones, to- 
gether with the sacrum and coccyx, form a bony girdle 
called the pelvis. 

Lower Limb. 

The outer side of the hip bone contains a rounded cavity 
for the reception of the ball- shaped head of the femur or 
thigh bone. The thigh bone is the longest and strongest 
bone in the body. The lower end forms part of the knee 
joint. The other part of this joint is formed by the shin 
bone or tibia, while in front of the joint is the small 
rounded bone called the kneecap or patella, which is held 



144 



SKELETON. MUSCLES. BODY -TRUNK. 



Hip Bone 



in position by a strong tendon. On the outer side of the 

tibia is a long thin bone, 
the fibula. Both the tibia 
and the fibula help to form 
the ankle joint. 

Forming the ankle and 
the heel are seven bones, 
the tarsal bones. The 
bones in the middle of the 
foot are long and narrow, 
and are called metatarsals. 
There are five of them, one 
corresponding to each toe. 
The phalanges or toe bones 
correspond exactly with the 
finger bones, there being 
two in the big toe and 
three in each of the others. 
The foot is narrowest at 
the heel and broadest at 
the ends of the metatarsal 
bones. The bones of the 
foot form two arches, one 
from the heel to the ends 
of the metatarsal bones, 
the other transverse from 
side to side. In the ordin- 
ary position of standing the 
foot rests on the heel, the 
outer edge of the foot, and 
the ends of the metatarsal 
bones. The inner side of 
the foot is too much arched 

for it to touch the ground, except in the condition known 



Fibula 



Phalangei 



Femur 

or Thigh Bone 



Patella 
"Knee-cap" 



Tib id 
orShin Bone 



Tarsals 

Mefafarsafs 



Fig. 60. 
HIP BONK AND LOWER LIMB. 



SKELETON. MUSCLES. BODY TRUNK. 



145 



as " flat foot." These arches give elasticity and strength to 
the foot. This, together with the great number of joints, 
and the excellent leverage obtained by the muscles of the 





Fig. 61. 
THE FOOT. 



Fig. 62. 
IMPRINT OF FOOT. 



calf which pull on the heel bone in raising the body on 
tiptoe, renders the foot peculiarly adaptable to the act of 
walking. 

JOINTS. 

The movable joints of the body allow variable degrees 
of movement to take place Thus the joints between the 
vertebrae allow only of a 
small amount of gliding 
movement; the joint at 
the elbow allows a back- 
ward and forward motion 
like a hinge ; at the hip 
and the shoulder the move- 
ments are very wide on 
account of the ball-and- 
socket nature of the joint ; 




HIP-BONE 



CAPSULE OF HIP-JOINT 



UPPER PART OF 
FEMUP 



Fig. 63. 



some, like the one between the head of the radius and 
the ulna, allow rotation only to take place, and are called 
pivot joints. 



PHY. HYG. 



10 



146 SKELETON. MUSCLES. BODY TRUNK. 

A thin tough material in the form of a bag round the 
ends of the bones forming the joint, and attached all round 
the bones a little distance from their ends, completely 
shuts in a joint, and is called its capsule. The bones are 
also bound together by strong bands of fibrous tissue, 
called ligaments. To prevent friction in the joint the 
bones are tipped with a layer of cartilage, covered with a 
smooth transparent membrane, which also lines the bag. 
This is called the synovial membrane. It is kept moist by 
a liquid called the synovial fluid. 

CLAVICLE. . ACROMION PROCESS 
CAPSULE OF U / /~vOF SCAPULA 

SHOULDER-JOIN' 



HUMER 




Fig. 64. 



THE MUSCLES. 

The various joints allow the bones of the body to be 
bent in many directions. Of themselves, however, the 
bones cannot perform any movement, but all movements 
are accomplished by the contraction of muscles. The 
muscles of animals constitute the chief part of the flesh 
of the body, and are the lean part of the meat. Muscles 
are usually divided into two classes: (1) the voluntary 
muscles ; (2) the involuntary muscles. 

The voluntary muscles are those muscles whose move- 
ments are under the control of the will. The two ends of 
a muscle are usually attached to two bones with a joint 



SKELETON. MUSCLES. BODY TRUNK. 147 

between. When the muscle contracts it bends the joint, 
and when the joint is bent it may be straightened out 
again by the contraction of another muscle, which tends to 
bend the joint in the opposite direction. For instance, the 
biceps muscle of the arm is attached to the scapula at the 
shoulder, and to the radius just below the elbow. When 
it contracts it pulls up the forearm and so bends the 
elbow. 




Fig. 65. 
THB ACTION OF THE BICEPS MUSCLH. 



The involuntary muscles are those which act inde- 
pendently of the will. They form the muscular walls 
of the stomach, intestines, bladder, heart, and blood- 
vessels. 

Passing to each muscle is a nerve which conveys to it 
the messages from the brain or spinal cord. This is called 
a motor nerve, because we find that if it is divided the 
muscle becomes paralysed and incapable of producing any 
movement. 



148 



SKELETON. MUSCLES. BODY TRUNK. 



Power 



Levers. 

Our voluntary movements are usually produced by a 
muscle or a set of muscles using a bone as a lever. 

A lever is a rigid bar which is capable of being moved 
about a fixed point. This fixed point is called the fulcrum. 
The force producing the motion is generally called the 
power, and the body which is being moved by the lever is re- 
ferred to as the weight. 
These three, the ful- 
crum, the power, and 
the weight, may be ar- 
ranged along the bar in 
three different relative 
positions, giving three 
orders of levers. 

A lever of the first 
order is where the power 
and the weight act with 
the fulcrum between 
them. This form of 
lever is used when we 
nod our head. A set of 
muscles pull down the 
Fig. 66. head in front, and an- 

LEVERS other set pull down at 

the back, the fulcrum 
being the point at which the skull rests on the atlas. 

The second order of lever is where the fulcrum is at one 
end of the lever and the power at the other end, with the 
weight between them. This is the position when the body 
is raised on tip-toe. The force here is represented by the 
muscles at the back of the leg, which are pulling up the 
heel. The weight of the body acts in the middle, and the 
toes form the fulcrum. 




fulcrum 



SKELETON. MUSCLES. BODY TRUNK. 



149 



The contraction of the biceps producing movement of the 
forearm illustrates a lever of the third order. The fulcrum 
is the elbow joint. The power is the contracting biceps, 
and is applied about an inch away from the elbow. The 
weight acts further down and is represented by the arm 
which is lifted. 

THE BODY TRUNK. 

The limbs are practically solid structures, composed of 
the above tissues. The trunk, on the other hand, is hollow. 
This space inside the 
trunk is called the 
body cavity. At about 
the level of the three 
lowest ribs is an 
arched muscular par- 
tition, which divides 



the body cavity into 
two distinct parts, an 
upper part called the 
thorax or chest, and a 
lower part called the 
abdomen. 

The Thorax and its 
Contents. 

This cavity is bound- 
ed in front by the 
sternum and the car- 
tilages of the ribs ; 
laterally by the ribs 
and the intercostal 
muscles between them ; 
behind by the ribs, 




Vertebral 
Column 



Diaphragm 



Fig. 67. 
THE BODY CAVITT. 



vertebral column, and the great 



muscles of the back ; above by the first rib, the collar 



150 SKELETON. MUSCLES. BODY TRUNK. 

bone, and the neck ; below by the arched muscular par- 
tition called the diaphragm. 

It is convenient to divide the thorax into three parts. 
At each side it is filled with the lungs (right and left). In 
the middle portion there are the heart and great blood 
vessels, the trachea and its branches, the oesophagus, the 
thoracic duct, and lymphatic glands. Surrounding each 
lung is a double bag called the pleura, the inner layer of 
which is attached to the lung itself, while the outer layer 
is fastened to the chest wall. In health these two layers 
are in close contact and can move smoothly over each 
other, the surfaces being lubricated by a small quantity of 
fluid. In the disease known as pleurisy these smooth 
surfaces become roughened, and pain is felt every time the 
one surface rubs against the other. 

The heart is contained in a similar double bag called 
the pericardium. The inner layer covers the heart closely, 
and the outer layer forms a loose bag in which the heart 
moves. A small amount of fluid lubricates the two 
surfaces. 

The Abdomen and its Contents. 

The abdomen is bounded in front by the abdominal 
muscles, passing from the ribs to the pelvis ; laterally by 
the same muscles; behind by the lumbar vertebrae, 
sacrum, coccyx, and muscles of the back; above by the 
diaphragm ; below by the pelvic bones and muscles. 

It is lined by a thin glistening membrane the peri- 
toneum which also covers the organs contained in the 
abdomen. This smooth membrane is kept continually 
moist by a small amount of fluid which it secretes. In 
the abdomen are the stomach and intestines, the liver and 
pancreas, the spleen, the kidneys, ureters, and bladder. 
Immediately under the diaphragm and chiefly on the right 



SKELETON. MUSCLES. BODY TRUNK. 



151 



is the liver, a large organ with a curved upper surface to 
fit the arch of the diaphragm. On the left, touching the 
diaphragm, is the stomach, the right end of which is 



Liver 
Turned u 



Ascending 
Large Infes 



irge InfesNne 




Sfomach 
turned up 



Transverse colon 
Large Infesfine 



ntesline 



Bladder 



Fig. 68. 

CONTENTS OF ABDOMEN. 



continuous with the duodenum, or the first part of the 
small intestine. The duodenum forms a noticeable bend 
which brings it under the stomach. 



152 SKELETON. MUSCLES. BODY TRUNK. 

The remainder of the small intestine forms a number of 
coils situated in the middle of the abdomen, and making a 
total length of about twenty feet. At the lower right-hand 
corner of the abdomen, the small intestine enters the large 
intestine. This is much broader than the small intestine, 
and is about six feet in length. It passes up the abdomen 
on the right, across to the left just below the stomach, 
and down on the left side. The last nine inches form a 
more or less straight tube which is called the rectum ; this 
ends at the external opening called the anus. 

The pancreas, or sweetbread, occupies the bend of the 
duodenum and passes to the left side under the stomach. 
On the left, side of the stomach and pancreas is a dark- 
coloured small body called the spleen. The kidneys are 
fixed to the posterior wall of the abdomen; the right 
kidney is covered by the liver and the left by the spleen. 
The left is rather higher than the right. Passing down 
from the kidneys are the two ureters which end in the 
bladder. The bladder is in the front part of the pelvic 
cavity. 



CHAPTER III. 

BLOOD AND CIKCTJLATION. LYMPH. 
THE BLOOD. 

To the naked eye the blood appears to be a red liquid, 
but under the microscope we see that it really consists of a 
clear colourless fluid in which are suspended a great number 
of small solid bodies. Most of these small bodies are red, 
and they give the red colour to the blood. The clear liquid 
part of tne blood is called the plasma, and the small solid 
bodies floating about in it are called the corpuscles. 

There are two kinds of corpuscles, red and white. There 
are about 500 red corpuscles to one white. 

Red Corpuscles. 

These are usually described as minute bi-concave discs. 
This means that they are round and flat like a penny, but 
are thinner in the middle than at the edge. The diameter 
of the disc is ^o^* 11 ^ an i ncn > an( i it is about a quarter 
of that in thickness. When viewed under the microscope, 
they are seen to have a tendency to run together in rows 
like a pile of pennies. Their colour is not a bright red, 
like the colour of blood, but much paler and yellower. A 
red corpuscle is made of a soft elastic and spongy material 
called stroma. Owing to their flexibility they can be forced 
through a small blood-vessel which has a less diameter 
than their own. 

This spongy network or stroma is itself colourless, 
but contains in its meshes a red colouring matter called 
haemoglobin. Haemoglobin is a chemical substance 

153 



154 



BLOOD A.ND CIRCULATION. LYMPH. 




capable of combining loosely with oxygen and forming 
oxyhaemoglobin, which has a bright scarlet colour. This 
can give up its oxygen and return again to haemoglobin. 
The haemoglobin therefore acts as the oxygen carrier of the 



Corpuscle 
from above 



Corpuscle 
seen edgeways 

Fig. 69. 

RED CORPUSCLES (Magnified 600 times). 

body. In the lungs it absorbs oxygen and becomes 
oxyhaemoglobin, and then this oxygen is carried all over 
the body to burn up the waste products of the various 
parts. 

The White Corpuscles (Leucocytes). 

These vary very greatly in form and in size. They 
average ^/o o th ^ an mcn ^ n diameter. 
The red corpuscles have no power of 
movement of themselves, but the 
white ones are constantly moving 
and changing their shape. Each 
white corpuscle is a complete cell, 
made of a clear jelly-like substance 
called protoplasm. In the protoplasm 
are seen a number of black dots called granules, and, if the 
cell is treated in a certain way, a rounded body can be 
distinguished which appears darker than the rest of the 
cell. This body is called the nucleus. The red corpusoles 
have no nucleus. 




Fig. 70. 

WHITE CORPUSCLE 
(Magnified 1600 times). 



BLOOD AND CIRCULATION. LYMPH. 155 

Uses of Blood. 

% 

(1) The haemoglobin in the red corpuscles acts as the 
oxygen carrier from the lungs to all parts of the body. (2) 
The impurities of the body are carried by the blood to the 
lungs, kidneys, liver, and skin, where they can be got rid 
of. (3) When the food is digested it passes into the 
blood, which conveys the nourishment to the various parts 

A or/a 



Auricular 
Appendix 



fl/g/if Ventricle 




Pulmonary Artery 



Auricular 
Appendix 



Left Ventricle 



Fig. 71. 

SHEEP'S HEART (Front View). 

of the body. (4) The flow of the blood through all parts 
keeps the temperature of the body uniform. 

THE HEART. 

The heart lies in the thorax between the two lungs, and 
is partly covered by the lungs, but part of it is in contact 
with the chest wall. The walls are made chiefly of muscle, 
and the heart weighs nine or ten ounces. It hangs 



156 



BLOOD AND CIRCULATION. LYMPH. 




Fig. 72. 

FRONT VIEW OF HEART. 

A is placed over the aorta. 

B = left ventricle, separated from C, the right ventricle, by the oblique inter- 
ventricular groove, well seen in the photograph, 

D is placed over the pulmonary artery as it arises from the right ventricle. Ibis 
vessel can be seen dividing into its two main branches. 

E = left auricular appendage. 



BLOOD AND CIRCULATION. LYMPH. 



157 



freely in a closed membranous sac called the peri- 
cardium. The inner surface of the membrane is smooth 
and shiny, as is also the outer surface of the heart. 
The heart is conical in shape, the base being uppermost 
and directed upwards and to the right, while the apex 
points downwards and to the left. The front of the heart 
differs from the back by being more rounded and convex, 
and by having a groove filled with fat running from the 
top on the left across towards the bottom on the right. 
The back of the heart is much flatter, and the groove in it 
is hardly noticeable. 

The left side of the heart differs from the right side by 
feeling firm and solid when pinched between the fingers ; 
the right side feels soft and flabby. 

Structure of the Heart. 

The heart is divided into a right and a left half by a 
partition, and there is no 
communication through 
this partition from one 
half to the other. Each / 

half is again subdivided / Righf 

into an upper and a I Auricle 

lower compartment 
called respectively auri- 
cle and ventricle. Each 
auricle communicates 
with the ventricle of the 
same side by an opening 
which is guarded by 
valves. The object of 
these valves is to prevent 
any blood flowing from the ventricle to the auricle. 




Fig. 73. 

DIAGRAMMATIC HEART. 



Thev 



allow blood to flow freely from the auricle to the ventricle. 



158 BLOOD AND CIRCULATION. LYMPH. 

In describing the heart it is best to consider separately its 
four cavities, the right and left auricles, and the right and 
left ventricles. The Right Auricle is a thin-walled cavity. 
In common with the other three cavities of the heart it is 
lined with a thin transparent membrane, called the endo- 
cardium. Opening into the right auricle are two large 
veins, the superior vena cava and the inferior vena cava. 
These veins bring blood from the whole of the body except 
the lungs. 

The Right Ventricle is separated from the right auricle 
by a valve which is composed of three triangular flaps or 
cusps, and is called the tricuspid valve. The apices of the 
flaps can meet together in the middle 
of the opening between the auricle 
and the ventricle and prevent blood 
passing from the ventricle to the 
auricle. The apices and margins of 
the flaps are connected by fibrous 
Fig. 74. cords chordae tendineae withmus- 

cular projections on the inner sur- 




1,2,3, The Three Flaps of face of the ventricle. These cords 
allow the flaps to meet, but prevent 
them from being forced up into the auricle by the pressure 
of the blood in the ventricle. 

All the valves of the heart are formed of fibrous tissue 
and are covered by the endocardium, so that there is a 
layer of endocardium on both sides of the flap. 

The right ventricle has much thicker walls than the 
auricle. Leading from it is a large blood-vessel called the 
pulmonary artery, because it carries blood to the lungs. 
The opening from the right ventricle into the pulmonary 
artery is guarded by a valve to prevent blood flowing back 
into the ventricle after it has been forced into the artery. 
The valve consists of three semi-circular flaps which are 

- * 



BLOOD AND CIRCULATION. LYMPH. 



159 




Fig. 75. 

THK PCLMONARY VALVE. 
1, 2, 3, Flaps of the Valve. 



called the semilunar valves. Each flap forms a kind of 
pocket with the wall of the artery, and allows blood to pass 
easily into the artery, but not back again. 

The Left Auricle has thin walls. Opening into it are 
four pulmonary veins which bring blood from the lungs. 
Below it communicates with the left ventricle by the 
mitral or bicuspid valve. This valve 
prevents blood from passing from, the 
ventricle into the auricle, but allows 
it to pass in the opposite direction. 
The structure of the valve is exactly 
similar to that of the tricuspid valve, 
except that it is composed of two flaps 
instead of three, and that the flaps 
are thicker and stronger. 

The Left Ventricle is the thickest- 
walled cavity of the heart. It is longer and narrower 
than the right ventricle. The largest artery in the body 
the aorta goes from the left ventricle. Its opening is 
guarded by semilunar valves in just the same way is the 
opening of the pulmonary artery in the right ventricle. 

The Beat of the Heart. 

A beat of the heart consists of a contraction of the walls 
of both auricles and both ventricles. This takes place 
about 75 times in a minute on an average. First the two 
auricles contract at the same time, and this is immediately 
followed by a contraction of both ventricles. Then there 
is a pause during which the auricles and the ventricles are 
relaxed ; then the auricles again contract, and immediately 
afterwards the ventricles contract ; then follows a pause, 
and so on. In a new-born baby the heart beats one 
hundred and forty times a minute, while in old people it 
only beats sixty times a minute or even less. Exercise 



160 BLOOD AND CIRCULATION. LYMPH. 

increases the rapidity of the heart beat. It is generally 
quicker in women than in men. 

THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 

The blood-vessels are branched tubes which convey the 
blood to and from the different parts of the body. 
There are' three kinds arteries, veins, and capillaries. 
An artery is a vessel that brings blood from the heart to 




Main Artery 

Vein 



Capillaries 
Fig. 76. 
DIAGRAMMATIC RBPRESENTATION OF ARTKRY, CAPILLARIES, AND VKIN. 



any part of the body, and the vessel carrying the blood 
back again to the heart is called a vein. When an artery 
reaches the organ which it supplies it breaks up into 
smaller branches, and then each branch subdivides again 
and again until very small vessels are arrived at. These 
are called capillaries, because they are as fine as hairs. The 
capillaries eventually reunite and form the vein taking the 
blood back to the heart. 



BLOOD AND CIRCULATION. LYMPH. 



161 



The Arteries. 

These are thick-walled vessels which do not collapse 
when empty. Their walls are strong and elastic, and 
consist of three layers an inner, middle, and outer coat. 
The inner coat of an artery is a transparent colourless 
membrane called endothelium. This is continuous with 
the endocardium lining the heart. The middle coat is 
made up of layers of muscle and elastic tissue. In the 
large arteries this coat is chiefly elastic, and in the smaller 
ones it is mainly muscular. The outer coat is made of 
connective tissue. When an artery has an extra quantity 



fndofhelial cells 
Band of elasfic Tissue 
Muscular layer 

Wtf' 

^ Connective tissue 
layer 




Fig. 77. 

SECTION THROUGH AN ARTERY. 



of blood suddenly forced into it, its elastic coat enables it 
to dilate, and afterwards to recover its normal size. By 
means of its muscular coat the size of an artery can be 
regulated independently of the pressure of blood within it. 

The Capillaries. 

As the arteries get smaller they gradually lose their 
elastic tissue. Then the muscular coat diminishes and 
finally disappears, so that a capillary blood vessel is simply 
a tube of endothelium consisting of thin flat cells united 
together at their edges. 



PHY. HYG, 



11 



162 RLOOD AND CIRCULATION. LYMPH. 

The Veins. 

The capillaries gradually unite together and increase in 
size, assuming the same three layers as in the arteries. 
These three coats of the veins are, however, much thinner 
than the coats of the arteries and contain much less elastic 
and muscular tissue. A vein collapses when it is empty. 
Another difference between an artery and a vein is that 
many veins, especially those in the arms and legs, have 
valves which allow the blood to flow only towards the 
heart. These valves are semilunar folds of endothelium 
with a small amount of connective tissue. 



Endofhelial cells 
Muscular layer 




onnechVe h'ssue 
layer 



Fig. 78. 
SECTION THROUGH VEIN. 



CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD. 

When describing the heart, mention was made of the 
fact that the blood vessels opening into the ventricles are 
arteries, while those opening into auricles are veins. The 
forcing power producing the circulation of the blood is the 
heart, which by its contraction squeezes the blood into the 
arteries and receives a supply from the veins during its 
dilation. 

When the auricles contract they close the openings of 
the veins, and force the blood into the ventricles through 
the mitral and the tricuspid valves. Then the ventricles 



BLOOD AND CIRCULATION. LYMPH. 



163 



contract. This closes the mitral and tricuspid valves and 
forces the blood into the arteries. 

In any description of the circulation, it is best to begin 
with the blood that is contained in any one of the four 
chambers of the heart and to trace its journey over the 
body until it again reaches the chamber from which it 
started. We will begin with the blood in the right 
auricle. 

When the right auricle contracts it forces the blood 



Section through Vein. 



Fig. 79. 

VALVES IN VEIN. 



Vein Opened. 



through the tricuspid valve into the right ventricle. Then 
the right ventricle contracts, closes the tricuspid valve by 
the blood pressure, and forces the blood into the pulmonary 
artery through the semilunar valves. It passes along this 
artery and reaches the capillaries of the lungs, where it 
receives oxygen from the air in the lungs and gives up 
some of its impurities to the air. The pulmonary veins 
bring the blood back from the lungs to the left auricle, 
which, by its contraction, forces the blood into the left 



164 



BLOOD AND CIRCULATION. LYMPH. 



ventricle through the mitral valve. By the contraction of 
the left ventricle the mitral valve is closed, and the blood 



Superior Vena 
Cava 



Pulmonar. 

Vein-^ii i ^ 

^JTO!\ 

Pulmonary ^ 



Capillaries of upper parf 
of bod/ 



Aorta 




Capillaries 

omach and 
Infesfines 
Hepafic^rfer/ 



Capillaries of lower part 
of bod/ 



Fig. 80. 

DIAGRAMMATIC PLAN OF CIRCULATION. 



is forced through the semilunar valves and along the great 
artery of the body, the aorta. 



BLOOD AND CIRCULATION. LYMPH. 165 

This artery distributes the blood over the whole body 
except the lungs. Its distribution may be divided into 
two parts : (1) The head, neck, and upper extremities, 
from which parts the blood is collected by veins which 
unite together and form a great vein, the superior vena 
cava; (2) the lower part of the body and the legs. The 
blood from these is collected by veins which coalesce and 
form another great vein, the inferior vena cava. Both 
these great veins empty themselves into the right auricle. 

That part of the circulation concerned in the supply of 
blood to the lungs is called the pulmonary circulation, and 
the greater part (carried on by the aorta and the venae 
cavae) is sometimes called the systemic circulation. There 
is another small circulation the portal circulation that 
has to be described. 

The aorta supplies blood to the stomach, intestines, 
spleen, and pancreas. This blood is collected by veins 
which unite together to form the portal vein. The portal 
vein goes to the liver and there breaks up into capillaries. 
An artery the hepatic artery also passes direct from 
the aorta to the liver and breaks up into capillaries there. 
The liver therefore has two blood supplies, one from the 
portal vein and one from the hepatic artery. The blood 
from the liver is collected from "a single vein the hepatic 
vein which joins the inferior vena cava. 

The Cause of the Circulation. 

The capillaries offer a very great resistance to the flow of 
blood through them because of their very small diameter. 
Now the arteries have a definite quantity of blood forced 
into them at each beat of the heart. They will obviously 
therefore become overfilled with blood. Their elastic coat 
enables them to distend in order to accommodate much 
more blood than would fill them in their ordinary condi- 



166 BLOOD AtfD CIRCULATION. 

tion. The elasticity of the walls tries always to decrease 
the diameter of the distended arteries, and so there 
is set up a pressure in the blood blood pressure that 
tends to force the blood out of the arteries, i.e. into the 
capillaries. 

When the contents of the ventricles are suddenly pushed 
into the artery an extra distension takes place in order to 
accommodate this extra amount of blood, and therefore the 
blood pressure will suddenly increase in the arteries at each 
contraction of the ventricles. This causes the pulsation 
of the arteries, i.e. the pulse. Between any contraction 
and the following one the pressure in the arteries decreases 
because the pressure in them is forcing blood into the 
capillaries, i.e. the arteries are emptying themselves. 

Thus the elasticity of the arterial walls acts as a reser- 
voir of the heart's force, " just as the distended air-bag of 
a piper acts as a reservoir of his expiratory efforts." Its 
effect on the circulation is to convert the pulsating force of 
the heart into a continuous force, the energy of each heart- 
beat being mainly absorbed in keeping the arteries distended, 
by which means a constant flow is kept up in the interval 
between the beats. On this principle, fire engines, garden 
watering engines, etc., are made. 

The blood pressure steadily decreases in passing from 
the larger to the smaller arteries, because of the friction 
which opposes the flow in the small arteries and the 
capillaries. In overcoming this friction, the energy of the 
heart-beat is turned into heat, and thus the pressure 
produced by the heart is changed into heat in the small 
arteries. When the blood has been driven through the 
capillaries and has reached the veins the force is almost 
entirely expended, and so the blood pressure in the veins 
is very small indeed. 

Minor forces assisting the circulation of the blood are 



BLOOD AND CIRCULATION. LYMPH. 



167 



the respiratory movements of the chest, and the muscular 
movements of the body. 

THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. 

The blood is always shut inside definite tubes, but the 
walls of the smallest tubes capillaries are so thin that 
part of the plasma of the blood passes through and so 
brings nutritive material actually to the cells. This fluid, 
which passes from the blood vessels and bathes the 
tissues, is called lymph. 

LEFT 

INTERNAL JUGULAR VEIN 

LEFT 
SUBCLAVIAN VEIN 



MESENTERIC GLANDS 
RECEPTACULUM CHYL! 




(NTESTINA 
LYMPHATICS 



Fig. 81. 



MAIN LYMPHATIC 
VESSEL TO 
LOWER LIMB 



Lymph is a colourless liquid, and may be described as 
blood minus its red corpuscles. Like blood plasma, it 
clots when shed. 

The lymph, after having bathed the cells, supplied them 
with nourishment, and received their waste products, is 
collected by a network of delicate vessels, called lymphatics, 
or lymphatic vessels, which unite with each other and form 
larger vessels, and these with each other again, finally form- 
ing main lymphatics. These main vessels can be traced 
into the abdomen to the chief lymphatic lying in front of 



168 



BLOOD AND CIRCULATION. LYMPH. 



the vertebrae (the thoracic duct). The upper end of this 
vessel turns towards the left, and, at the root of the neck, 
opens into the jugular vein, thereby completing the return 
of the lymph to the blood. 

The flow of the lymph is caused by the excess of pressure 
in the capillaries (where it is produced) over that in the 
great vein (into which it discharges) . Also all muscular 
movements tend to cause its flow by pressing on the walls 
of the vessels, the valves in the vessels preventing a flow 
in the wrong direction. 



SUBMAXILLARY 
LYMPHATIC GLANDS 




CERVICAL 
LYMPHATIC GLANDS 



CLAVICLE 



SUPRA-CLAVICULAR 

LYMPHATIC GLANDS 

Fig. 82. 

Lymphatic Glands. 

Placed at irregular intervals along lymphatic vessels are 
small solid bodies called lymphatic glands. These vary in 
size, the commonest being about the size of a pea. The 
lymphatic vessels open into one side and leave on the 
opposite side. The gland is composed of a network of 
fine fibres, with colourless lymph corpuscles filling the 
meshes of the network. These are young white corpuscles 
of the blood in the process of manufacture by the simple 
plan of division of existing corpuscles into two, then each 
of these into two more, and so on. The lymph leaving 
these glands is found to contain an increased number of 
white corpuscles, which it takes on with it to the blood. 



CHAPTER IV. 



CARE OF THE TEETH. 

INTIMATELY associated with the general cleanliness of 
the body, as well as the early formation of good habits, is 
the care of the teeth. 

The teeth are divided into four classes according to their 
shape. In front are the incisors the flat sharp-edged 
biting teeth. The long narrow fang-like teeth at each 
side of the incisors are called canines. Still further along 





Incisor Canine 8/cusped 



Fig. 83. 
KINDS OF TKETH. 



Molar 



the jaw are teeth which seem to be partly split into two at 
the top these are the bicuspids. The molars are the 
broad-topped grinding teeth placed at the back. 

There are two sets of teeth, the first set or the temporary 
teeth, and the second set which are more or less permanent. 
The first set are called the milk teeth. They are twenty 
in number, and consist of eight incisors, four canines, and 
eight molars ; each half of each jaw being provided with 

169 



170 CARE OF THE TEETH. 

two incisors, one canine, and two molars. This set is 
Usually complete at three years. They begin to drop out 
about the seventh year, and have all gone at twelve. By 




Fig. 84. 
MILK TEETH (upper or lower jaw). 

the fourteenth year all the permanent set have appeared 
except the last four molars, called the wisdom teeth. 
These may not be cut until the twenty-fifth year. 




Fig. 85. 
PERMANENT TEETH (upper or lower jaw). 

The permanent teeth are thirty-two in number, and are 
divided into eight incisors, four canines, eight bicuspids, 
and twelve molars. At about fourteen years there would 



CARE Off THE TEETH. 



171 




amel 



be twenty-eight teeth, the last four molars not being cut at 
this age. 

Structure of a Tooth. 

Each tooth consists of a crown, or the part showing 
above the gum, and the root, or the part imbedded in the 
jawbone. The root consists of one or more fangs. A 
slight constriction is visible at the line where the crown 
and the root meet ; this is called the neck. The main body 

of a tooth is 
made of a sub- 
stance called 
dentine which 
closely re- 
sembles bone 
in its structure 
and composi- 
tion. Covering 
the crown of 
the tooth is a 
layer of ex- . 
tremely hard 
material called 
enamel. It 
differs from 
ordinary bone 
by containing 
a much smaller percentage of animal matter. For this 
reason the enamel rarely or never decays ; but when it 
gets chipped off, decay at once attacks the softer dentine. 
The fang of the tooth is covered by a bony layer called 
cement which fixes the fang securely in its socket. 

In the body of the tooth is a cavity which is filled with 
a pulpy substance containing nerves and blood-vessels. 



Cement 



Fig. 86. 



172 CARE OE THE TEETH. 

These enter the tooth at the tip of each fang, and pass into 
he pulp cavity. Ordinary toothache is caused by the 
inflammation of this pulp in the tooth. 

The question of children's teeth constitutes one of the 
most vexing and hopeless problems of child hygiene. 
Moreover it is a subject intimately associated with the 
national physique, and of the utmost importance to the 
well-being of the race. In spite of this, however, there is 
general public apathy on the subject, compared with the 
attention that is being devoted to the examination of the 
children's eyes and ears. The ophthalmic surgeon appears 
at the present time to constitute " the be all and the end 
all " of the child's necessities, but it is to be hoped that a 
broader view of the subject may soon be taken. The Com- 
mittee of the British Dental Association found that among 
the children of the average age of 12 years in attendance 
at elementary schools there were more than 85 per cent, 
showing signs of decay of the teeth. The following is 
the table presented by them : 

TABLE showing the results of an examination of the 
mouths of 10,517 boys and girls in English and 
Scotch Schools, with an average age of about 12 years. 
Number of children examined... ... 10,517 

Temporary teeth requiring filling ... 9,573 \ 
Temporary teeth requiring extraction 8,436 I ' 
Permanent teeth requiring filling ... 13,017 \ 
Permanent teeth requiring extraction... 6,079 i ' 

Total unsound teeth 37,105 

Teeth already extracted 2,174 

Sets of teeth free from decay 1,508 = 14'2 per cent. 

An examination of ancient skulls shows that caries or 
decay of the teeth was formerly almost entirely absent, 



CARE OF THE TEETH. 173 

and it is also an undoubted fact that it is now rapidly 
increasing. 

The attitude of the lower classes towards the subject 
can only be compared to a kind of Oriental fatalism. A 
decayed tooth is regarded as one of the unpreventable 
dispensations of Providence, and it is ignored until the 
pain can no longer be tolerated, when it is hauled out by 
some more or less competent individual. Then they wait 
for the next to come on. At an early age the whole of the 
working teeth are often gone or are useless. The result is 
that the food cannot be chewed properly, and the digestion 
is upset. Dyspepsia with all its attendant evils follows, 
and the constitution rapidly deteriorates. 

Unfortunately these are not the only results. While 
decay is going on the condition of the mouth cannot be 
otherwise than foul and unhealthy, and the gums, throat, 
and tonsils are affected. . Undoubtedly there is thus 
produced an increased tendency to such diseases as 
diphtheria, pneumonia, and rheumatic fever. In such & 
mouth bacterial life flourishes to an unimaginable extent, 
and it is no difficult task to isolate a hundred different 
varieties of organisms and a large number of each breed. 
Septic and purulent material is formed in large quantities 
and is swallowed, causing serious disorders of the intestinal 
tract, and is said to be one of the causes of pernicious 
anaemia. 

In addition to all this there is pain of a most wearing 
and aggravating character, and the breath is foul and 
infectious. Such an individual " pollutes the air that is 
breathed and contaminates the food that is swallowed." 
To carefully ventilate schools and to provide good whole- 
some food is a waste of money under such circumstances. 
The nutrition of such a child must be defective, and its 
growth is inevitably stunted. Among the more remote 



174 CARE OF THE TEETH. 

effects of bad teeth are the enlarged and suppurating glands 
in the neck, diseases of the jawbones and accessory cavities, 
and cancer of the tongue. 

Causes of Decay. 

The causes of decay of the teeth, like those of all 
diseases, are best classified into the predisposing and the 
determining. The predisposing causes include heredity, 
malnutrition, and acute illness. Heredity is important so 
far as it provides the child with a good or a poor material 
for its teeth. If the teeth are soft and friable, then when 
caries is established they will disappear rapidly. Also 
greater care will be necessary to prevent decay commen- 
cing in such teeth. As illustrating the effect of heredity it 
may be mentioned that Jewish children, as a rule, show 
less decay of teeth than the Gentiles. Dr. W. Hall, of 
Leeds, obtained the following figures : 



In good class Jewish school 11 per cent. \ 
Gentile 38 had . 

In poor class Jewish school 25 per cent. ( ' 
, Gentile 60 . ) 



Probably the fact that nearly all the Jewish women 
suckle their children largely accounts for the differences. 

Malnutrition is another important predisposing cause of 
caries. The improper feeding in infancy on patent foods, 
instead of milk, has a most injurious effect upon the teeth. 
The poorer the class of school, and the more neglected and 
underfed the children are, the greater is the percentage of 
children with bad teeth. 

The nutrition of the teeth during development is 
arrested, for the time being, during an acute illness. The 



CARE OF THE TEETH. 175 

time of the illness will be marked on the teeth by a line, 
just as the nails become similarly marked. 

The determining cause of decay of the teeth is composed 
of two factors the presence of bacteria and the formation 
of an acid medium. Bacteria in the mouth have already 
been referred to. From our point of view there are three 
chief kinds those which attack and destroy the teeth, 
those which produce disease, not only of the mouth, but 
of other organs, and those which produce fermentation. 
Those micro-organisms which attack the teeth can only -do 
so when they are surrounded by an acid medium. Now 
the natural condition of the mouth is to be alkaline, but 
acid is produced when particles of food are left in the 
mouth and allowed to ferment. Fermentation produces an 
acid in the mouth just like it does in milk. If milk is 
kept too long without special precautions we say it has 
gone sour. Fermentation has gone on which has produced 
an acid, and this acid gives the sour taste. So in the 
mouth the food left between the teeth and round the gums 
will ferment and produce an acid, thereby affording the 
necessary opportunity for the bacteria to attack the teeth 
and cause decay. 



Prevention. 

The method of prevention now becomes almost obvious. 
If all particles of food are removed from the mouth there 
will be no acid produced and no decay. This simply 
amounts to regular and thorough cleaning of the teeth 
and mouth. The teeth should be cleaned every night. 
Just before bedtime is best because if any particles of food 
are left during the night the bacteria causing fermentation 
will have an undisturbed time of it, and a good deal of 
damage may be produced. A stiff brush should be used 



176 CARE OF THE TEETH. 

and the teeth and gums thoroughly scrubbed. Some 
simple tooth powder should be used ; one of ijie best is 
carbonate of soda, another good one is powdered borax, 
and if the use of this is combined with some mildly 
antiseptic mouth wash, such as a very dilute solution of 
carbolic acid, there will be produced not only an appearance 
but also such a sense of cleanliness of the "mouth and 
throat as, once acquired, will be parted with very reluc- 
tantly. 

Surely a good case has been made out for the introduction 
of the separate tooth-brush at school for each child, and 
the daily performance of what will probably be known as 
tooth-brush drill. I have no hesitation whatever in 
saying that it will be the very best and most beneficial 
drill that has ever been introduced into schools. The 
small expense that it would entail would prove an 
excellent investment, as it would undoubtedly have an 
immediate effect upon one of the most active causes of 
deterioration of physique. Since the above was written 
a notice has appeared in the daily press to the effect 
that Mr. Cadbury was about to introduce the use of the 
tooth-brush into the public elementary school at Bourn- 
ville. It is impossible to overestimate the value of 
such an advance in school hygiene. 

Of course a good deal can be done by proper direct 
practical instruction on the subject. The children should 
be taught the importance of saving their teeth, and the 
simple methods that will effect this. This instruction 
should be given in the infant schools and in every stan- 
dard, so that there should be no danger of the subject 
being looked upon as limited to some special year's work 
and being subsequently forgotten. It is important to 
remember that the first teeth must be brushed and 
cleaned regularly. Many people fail to understand that 



CARE OP THE TEETH. 177 

a carious milk tooth will cause the permanent tooth to 
become carious also. There should also be regular in- 
spection of the teeth of the children, and efforts made 
to get any defects remedied. 

In many areas definite instruction is now being given to 
parents and children concerning the care of the teeth, 
either in the form of popular lectures, distribution of 
leaflets, or lessons in school. An excellent example of such 
leaflets is that circulated by Dr. James Wheatley, County 
Medical Officer for Shropshire, which reads as follows : 

Prevention of Decay of Teeth. 

Food often sticks about the teeth after eating. It then 
decomposes and acts upon the teeth, causing them to decay. 
It is the starchy and sugary foods (see below) that do the 
harm when they stick to the teeth. If food can be pre- 
vented from sticking to the teeth there will be no decay. 

To prevent decay you should observe the folio wing rules : 

(1) As soon as an infant needs food other than milk 
(8 9 months) give it in a solid, hard form requiring mas- 
tication, such as crusty bread, twice-baked bread, or crisp 
toast. In this way good teeth are likely to grow and good 
habits of mastication will be formed. Never give bread 
soaked in milk, or flour added to milk, or other soft, starchy 
foods (such as most patent foods). 

(2) As the child grows up you should still give most of 
the food in a hard form, compelling mastication. Food 
should rarely be taken in a liquid form or soaked in liquid 
or minced. Bread should not be eaten new, and it should 
have plenty of good, firm crust. 

(3) Drinking between each mouthful is very injurious. 
Liquids should be taken principally at the end of a meal. 

(4) Sweets should never be taken between meals, nor at the 
end of a meal ; but only with food requiring mastication.' 

PHY. HYG. 12 



178 CARE OF THE TEETH. 

(5) A meal should always be finished with a cleansing 
food (see below). It is very desirable that fresh fruit 
should be eaten freely, particularly at the end of a meal. 

(6) Mouth breathing in children should always be 
corrected, and, if obstinate, medical advice should be ob- 
tained. 

Examples of Foods. 

Starchy Foods. Bread, biscuits, etc. ; potatoes ; rice, 
tapioca, sago, etc. ; oatmeal, porridge ; patent foods. 

Sugary Foods. All foods to which sugar is added; 
sweets j honey ; milk ; jams ; marmalades ; patent foods. 

Cleansing Foods. Fresh fruit, particularly apple ; raw 
vegetables celery, radishes, lettuce, carrot, etc. ; crusts 
of bread,* crisp toast, twice-baked bread ; meat, fish ; bacon. 

The following rules, drawn up by the Council of the 
National League for Physical Education and Improvement, 
and issued as a leaflet by that body at cheap rates, also 
serve a useful purpose as an aid to the education of the 
public on this important matter. 

The Care of the Teeth. 

1. Clean teeth seldom decay. 

2. Decayed teeth cause much suffering and bad health. 

3. Food left on the teeth causes decay. 

4. Unclean teeth decay, chiefly at night. 

5. Clean all the teeth thoroughly, inside and out, before 
going to bed and again in the morning. 

6. Use a small toothbrush, with soap or chalk powder. 

7. Keep the toothbrush perfectly clean. Do not use a 
brush belonging to anyone else. 

8. Chew your food slowly and thoroughly. 

9. Bad teeth should be stopped by a dentist or removed. 

* The coarse whole-meal flours are better for this purpose. 



CARE OF THE TEETH. 179 

STATISTICS REGARDING CHILDREN'S TEETH. 

1. Ages at which the Milk Teeth are lost. 

4 Central incisors drop about the 7th year. 
4 Lateral 8th 

4 First molars 9th 

4 Second molars 10th 

_4^ Canines llth 

20 



2. Ages at which Permanent Teeth appear. 

4 First molars appear about the 6th year. 

4 Central incisors ,, 7th 

4 Lateral incisors ,, 8th 

4 First bicuspids ,, 9th 

4 Second bicuspids 10th 

4 Canines ,, llth 

4 Second molars 13th 

j^ Third molars 18th-25th year. 

32 



3. Average Number of Teeth at School Ages. 



Age. 


Temporary 
Teeth. 


Permanent 
Teeth. 


Total, 


6 


20 


4 


24 


7 


16 


8 


24 


8 


12 


12 


24 


9 


8 


16 


24 


10 


4 


20 


24 


11 


. 


24 


24 


13 


. 


28 


28 



CHAPTEE V. 



FOOD AND DIGESTION. 

THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. 

THE food we eat is subjected to a great many processes 
before it is really assimilated by the body. Some of these 
processes are merely mechanical or physical, and are very 
simple, while others are complicated chemical actions. 



ORAL CAVITY^. 

H> 



ASCENDING 

COLON 
<CUT SHORT) 




PHARYNX 



(ESOPHAGUS 



TOMACH 

MALL INTESTINE 
(ONLY 2 COILS SHOWN) 



DESCENDING COLON 



RECTUM 



Fig. 87. 



The food is first broken up thoroughly by the teeth, and 
while this is going on it is being acted upon chemically by 
the saliva. It is then forced through the funnel-shaped 
pharynx into the oesophagus, down which it passes on its 

180 



FOOD AND DIGESTION. 181 

way to the stomach, and in the stomach it is again sub- 
jected to chemical changes. From the stomach it passes 
along the intestines, where it is still further acted upon. 
Absorption of digested material is going on all the while, 
from the moment the food enters the stomach. 

The Salivary Glands. 

There are three pairs of glands which secrete the saliva. 
Small tubes or ducts lead from each gland, and the saliva 
trickles along these into the mouth. Each pair of glands 



TONGUE 




SUBLINGUAL. 

GLAND ^ _^<T OUTLINE OF 

MANDIBLE 

SUBMAXILLARY GLAND 

Fig. 88. 

has a special name. Those placed in front of and below 
each ear are called the parotid glands ; another pair, close 
to the inner side of the lower jaw on each side, are called 
the submaxillary glands ; the third pair are placed under 
the tongue, and are called the sublingual glands. These 
glands are lined with cells which secrete the saliva, the 
flow of which into the mouth is increased by placing food 
there, or even by the sight or smell of food. 

Saliva is an alkaline liquid made up of water, salts, 
mucus, and a peculiar substance called ptyalin, a ferment. 
This is the first example we have had of this important 



182 



FOOD AND DIGESTION. 



class of bodies called ferments. They have the property 
of causing remarkable changes to go on in various sub- 
stances when the conditions are favourable. We divide 
ferments into two classes : (1) the organised ferments, or 
living ferments like yeast, which is really a tiny plant, and 
which has the power of converting sugar into alcohol and 
carbon dioxide ; (2) the unorganised ferments, which have 

v no life at all, but are 

simply chemical sub- 
stances secreted from 
living cells. They have 
the power of bringing 
about certain changes, 
and do not themselves 
increase or decrease in 
quantity during the 
process. Ptyalin is an 
unorganised ferment. 
It causes the starch in 
our food to unite with 
water and become 
changed into sugar. 

The saliva also serves 
to moisten the food and 
thereby assists mastica- 
tion. After the food has 

been thoroughly broken up by the teeth and moistened by the 
saliva, it is collected into a mass, and is forced through the 
pharynx into the oesophagus. By dissolving some of the 
constituents of the food the saliva aids the sense of taste. 

The Oesophagus. 

The oesophagus is a soft fleshy tube about nine inches 
long. It is the first part of a continuous tube called the 



Nasaf passage 



Phar/nx - 



Oesophagus.. -. 




,_ Lar/nx 



Fig. 89. 
PHABYNX. 



FOOD AND DIGESTION. 



183 



alimentary canal which extends from the mouth to the 
anus. It passes from the pharynx above to the stomach 
below. Owing to the softness of its walls, it does not 
remain open when there is no foo$ passing down. Lining 
the tube is mucous membrane, which is thrown into folds, 
and contains some small glands. Outside the mucous 
membrane is a double muscular coat, the fibres of the 
inner part running in a circular direction round the 
oesophagus j while in the outer layer the fibres run in a 



Py/ooc Opening 



Duodenum 




-Oesophagus 

- Cardiac opening 



Fig. 90. 
STOMACH AND DUODENUM. 



longitudinal direction. The oesophagus plays practically 
no part in the actual work of digestion. 

The Stomach. 

This may be described as a somewhat irregular dilation 
of the alimentary canal. It is situated in the abdomen, 
just below the diaphragm. It measures about ten inches 
from left to right. The enlargement is greatest on the left 
or cardiac end of the stomach. On the right, the pyloric 
end of the stomach becomes continuous with the first part 
of the small intestine (the duodenum) . The upper border 



184 



POOD AND DIGESTION. 



of the stomach is concave, and is sometimes called the 
lesser curvature, in comparison with the lower convex 
border, which is called the greater curvature. 

The stomach is lined with mucous membrane, which is 
quite smooth when the stomach is full, but becomes 
thrown into ridges and folds as the stomach gets empty 
and contracts. This mucous membrane is almost entirely 
made up of minute simple blind tubes running at right 

..Epithelium lining 
S/omach 



-Ordinary eel! 
of gland 



-Ovoid cell 



Connective Tissue 
be/ween a befowglands 

Fig. 91. 
TCBULAK GLANDS OF STOMACH'. (Very highly magnified.) 

angles to its surface. These are called tubular glands. 
They are lined with cubical cells, amongst which are a few 
round or ovoid cells in the cardiac region of the stomach. 
Between the tubules is connective tissue containing blood- 
vessels and lymphatics. The presence of food in the 
stomach causes the blood-vessels to dilate and to bring 
extra blood to the stomach. Then the cells in the tubular 
glands at once secrete a colourless liquid called the gastric 




FOOD AND DIGESTION. 185 

juice, which is poured out into the stomach and mixes 
with the food. 

Outside the mucous coat of the stomach is the muscular 
coat, which is divided into three layers according to the 
direction in which the muscular fibres run. In the inner 
layer the fibres run obliquely ; in the middle layer they 
run circularly, and in the outer layer longitudinally. At 
the pylorus there are a greater number of circular muscular 
fibres than anywhere else, and here they form a sphincter 
muscle which prevents the food passing from the stomach 
until it has been properly churned up with the gastric 
juice. 

The outer layer of the stomach is the covering which is 
common to all the organs of the abdomen. It consists of 
a smooth glistening membrane, called peritoneum. 

Gastric Juice is the liquid secreted by the glands of the 
stomach. It is a clear, colourless, acid liquid, containing 
water, salt, hydrochloric acid (0*2 per cent.), and an 
unorganised ferment called pepsin. The pepsin and the 
hydrochloric acid together act on the food and convert the 
proteid part of it into peptones. Some absorption of 
digested food takes place in the stomach. 

The Small Intestine. 

This commences at the pyloric opening of the stomach, 
and ends at the ileocaecal valve, which is situated in the 
lower right-hand corner of the abdomen. The greater part 
of the small intestine is coiled up in the centre of the 
abdomen. When uncoiled it measures about twenty-one 
feet. It is usual to divide it into three portions, the 
duodenum, the jejunum, and the ileum, but there is no 
need to do this in an elementary text-book. 

The walls are made up of three coats arranged in just 
the same order as those of the stomach. Inside we have 



186 



FOOD AND DIGESTION. 



a mucous coafc, next a muscular coat in two layers, and 
outside this the peritoneum. The mucous coat of the 
small intestine is thrown into large folds, some of them 
being a quarter of an inch in depth. These folds differ 
from the folds of mucous membrane in the stomach by not 
disappearing when the intestine is filled with food. By 



Duodenum --4- 



Large 



f/eocdacal 




Ascendmg .. 
Colon 



-Transverse 
colon 



"Coifs o/ 
Small Infesfine 



Dascend/'ng 
Colon' 6 



- Sigmoid 



Vermjfprm 



Fig. 92. 
SMALL AND LARGE INTESTINK. 



means of these folds called valvulae conniventes the 
area of surface of the mucous membrane is very greatly 
increased. 

If a piece of small intestine is opened, put into water, 
and the inner surface examined with a magnifying glass, 
it will be seen to be covered with a great number of tiny 



FOOD AND DIGESTION. 



187 



projections like the fingers of a glove, which give the sur- 
face a velvety appearance. These projections are called 
villi. Between the villi are small holes the openings of 
small tubular glands, lined with columnar epithelium 
which secrete a liquid called intestinal juice. At the 
lower part of the small intestine are found groups of cells 
arranged in oval-shaped patches. These are called Peyer's 
patches, and are the parts chiefly affected in typhoid 
fever. 

The chief function of the small intestine is the absorp- 
tion of digested foods. This is carried out by the villi. 
The intestinal juice is not } 

important for digestive 
purposes. 

The Ileocaecal Valve 
is situated at the part 
where the small intestine 
enters the large intestine. 
It consists of a double 
fold of mucous mem- 
brane which is so ar- 
ranged that it allows 



-- Large |n/e(jn<j 




Vermiform Appendix 



Fig. 93. 

ILEOCAECAL VALVE. 
food to pass freely from 

the small to the large intestine, but not in the reverse 
direction. 



The Large Intestine. 

This is about six feet in length. The part below the 
ileocaecal valve is called the caecum, and from this a 
narrow worm-like process is given off, called the vermiform 
appendix. Above the caecum comes the ascending colon, 
which reaches to the under surface of the liver on the 
right side, then the transverse colon stretching across the 
upper part of the abdomen, and then the descending colon 



188 FOOD AND DIGESTION. 

down to the left side of the pelvis, where there is a bend 
like an S, called the sigmoid flexure. For the last few 
inches the intestine is comparatively straight, and is called 
the rectum. This opens externally at the anus. 

The coats of the large intestine are the same as those of 
the small intestine, mucous membrane inside, then muscle, 
and outside peritoneum. The mucous membrane is quite 
smooth and has no villi, but it contains a large number of 
tubular glands which secrete mucus and intestinal juice. 
The muscular coat is peculiar, because the longitudinal 
muscular fibres are gathered up into three bands, arranged 

symmetrically round 
Mucous Membrane the intestine. These 

Circular muscle bands are rather 
layer shorter than the 

rest of the wall, and 

-.Band of so they produce the 

Long/fudinal muscle characteristic puc- 

Pen'roneum kerin g of the walls 

ji- 94 of the large intes- 

CROSS SECTION OF LARGE INTESTINE. tine > 3 ust as a P iece 

of cloth may be 

puckered up by running a thread along it and drawing the 
thread short. 

Function of the Large Intestine. The tubular glands 
secrete a small quantity of fluid, but the chief function of 
the large intestine is to absorb what is left of the useful 
material of the digested food. The veins receive this and 
carry it to the portal vein. 

Liver and Pancreas. 

We have now studied the structure of the long tube 
which connects the mouth and the anus, and we have seen 
that in its walls are various glands which have a digestive 




FOOD AND DIGESTION. 189 

action on the food. These glands alone, however, would 
be insufficient to carry on the digestive process in the best 
possible way, and so there are connected with the small 
intestine two large glands the liver and the pancreas 
which secrete two very important liquids, the bile and the 
pancreatic juice. These two liquids are poured together 
into the small intestine near its commencement, and there- 
fore are able to act upon the food as it passes from that 
point to the end of the alimentary canal. 

The bile is a yellow liquid containing water, mucus, and 
salts. Among these salts are those which are found in the 
blood, and, in addition, peculiar salts of sodium called bile 
salts. There is also colouring matter or pigments, and a 
peculiar fatty substance called cholesterin. The bile acts 
upon the fat in the food in the intestine and emulsifies it, 
or breaks it up into very tiny particles. It also is an anti- 
septic and a stimulant to the bowels. 

Pancreatic juice is a colourless liquid composed of water, 
salts chiefly sodium carbonate and ferments. The car- 
bonate of sodium causes the pancreatic juice to emulsify 
fats. The ferments present enable the pancreatic juice to 
act upon all kinds of food. The proteids are turned into 
peptones ; the starch is changed into sugar ; and the fat 
is, to a small extent, decomposed into a fatty acid and 
glycerine. 

FOOD. 

Experience teaches us that food is necessary for our 
existence. The old comparison drawn between a living 
body and a steam engine at work is instructive and useful- 
The engine will only work as long as food is supplied to it 
in the shape of fuel, water, and air. Also, after a time, 
another kind of food is supplied to it in the shape of 
various metals which have to replace the worn-out parts. 
Supplied with its food, then, the steam engine becomes 



190 FOOD AND DIGESTION. 

active, works its own internal machinery, and is, moreover, 
capable of doing work sucli as dragging along a heavy 
train. This is not all : there are produced various waste 
matters in the form of carbon dioxide, water vapour, and 
cinders from the furnace. 

In just the same way the body takes oxygen from the 
air, and receives a supply of food. As the result of the 
combination of these two, heat and energy are produced. 
The food also serves to repair and keep in working order 
the blood and the various parts of the body. The body is 
kept warm and the different organs are kept automatically 
at work. 

This is internal work. External work is also done, such 
as walking, running, talking, etc. Various waste matters 
are at the same time produced : the lungs giving off carbon 
dioxide and water vapour ; the kidneys getting rid of water 
with waste substances in solution ; the skin chiefly elimi- 
nating water as sweat ; and the undigested remains of the 
food being thrown out by the rectum. 

Uses of Foods. From the above it is obvious that the 
uses of foods are: (1) to keep up the heat of the body; 

(2) to supply the energy for internal and external work ; 

(3) to make good any loss, and replace decayed tissues. 
In addition to this, part of the food of young children is 
used to build up the growing tissues. 

Classification of Foods. 

Perhaps the simplest classification of foods is to divide 
them into : (1) solid foods ;. and (2) liquid foods, such as 
water, milk, etc. A more useful classification is to divide 
foods according to their source into 

(1) Inorganic foods, which include the various mineral 

salts. 

(2) Organic foods, i.e. those of axumal or vegetable origin. 



FOOD AND DIGESTION. 191 

The organic foods are further subdivided into those 
which contain nitrogen and those which do not. The 
foods containing nitrogen are called nitrogenous foods or 
proteids, and those containing no nitrogen are called non- 
nitrogenous foods. 

Non-nitrogenous foods include three chief classes, the 
hydrocarbons or fats, the carbohydrates or sugars and 
starches, and the vegetable acids. 

We may say, therefore, that all foods can be divided 
into groups of foodstuffs or proximate principles. Some 
foods contain representatives from practically all the 
divisions, while other foods, we shall find, contain one 
proximate principle only, or mainly one with very small 
quantities of one or two others. We may classify all 
foods under one or more of the following headings: 
water, mineral salts, proteids, fats, carbohydrates, and 
vegetable acids. 

The following table clearly shows the division of foods 
into foodstuffs : 

Food. 
I 



Inorganic. 




Organic. 




Water. Mineral Salts. Proteids Non-nitr 
or 
Nitrogenous foods. 


ogenous foods. 



Fats or Carbohydrates Vegetable 
Hydrocarbons. or Acids. 

Sugars and 
Starches. 

Food can be regarded as composed of two chief materials ; 
the one kind is used by the body in producing heat and 
energy, and the other kind goes to form the growing body 
of the child and to renew and repair the various tissues and 



192 



POOD AND DIGESTION. 



organs. Fats, starches, and sugars are burned up in the 
body and heat and energy result, while such foods as the 
lean of meat, fish, the white of eggs, the greater part of 
cheese, and a considerable proportion of such foods as milk, 
oatmeal, bread, peas, beans, and lentils serve to produce 
actual body tissue and repair any worn out parts. 

The food of children should contain some tissue-forming 
material, as well as fats, sugars or starches, and some 
vegetables or fruit. The following table will give some 
idea as to the relative quantities of these materials that 
common foods contain. 



EELATIVE PROPORTIONS. 



Food. 


Tissue- 
forming. 


Force-producing. 


Fats. 


Starch or Sugar. 


Milk 


37 


29 


34 


Oatmeal 


16 


7 


77 


Bread 


13 


2J 


841 


Butter 


2J 


97J 




Bacon 


11 


89 





Meat 


70 


30 





Cheese 


50 


49 


1 


Fish (herrings) 


55 


45 





Lentils 


29 


2 


69 


Peas 


24 


2 


74 


Eice 


6 





94 



Fats are particularly valuable foods for children, but the 
average child among the poor classes has far too little fat 
provided in the food. This lack of fat in the diet during 
early life undoubtedly predisposes to consumption and ill 



FOOD AND DIGESTION. 193 

development. The great desire for sweet things, possessed 
by most children, is probably a manifestation of the 
physiological need of the body for sugar. Tissue-forming 
foods, on account of their expense, are often lacking, the 
result of which is deficient physical and mental develop- 
ment. If tissue- forming materials, fats, starches or sugars, 
and vegetables or fruits are not all represented in the diet, 
or are there in improper proportions, or are deficient in 
quantity, the child cannot develop as it should do. If the 
diet is deficient the nutrition of the body is more or less 
arrested ; if the diet is ill-balanced but abundant the nu- 
trition is perverted. Scurvy, rickets, and anaemia are all 
nutritional diseases. 

To try to educate underfed children is not only wasteful 
of the teacher's energy, but is also cruel to the child because 
deterioration of physique is promoted by exhausting the 
enfeebled nervous system. Such a child's mental apparatus 
is not in a condition fit for work. If work is insisted upon, 
then the nervous system is speedily exhausted and all sorts 
of evils result. The limits of educational possibility are 
primarily determined by the food supply available. It is 
impossible to properly educate an ill-fed child, and if 
education is attempted the effect upon the physical and 
mental health of the child is disastrous. 

DIGESTION. 

We have seen that the food may be divided up into 
water, salts, proteids, fats, carbohydrates, and vegetable 
acids, and it now remains for us to trace each constituent 
in its journey through the alimentary canal, the blood 
stream, the tissues, and the excretory organs. The water 
that we drink is probably absorbed into the blood-vessels 
all along the alimentary canal, beginning with the stomach. 
The salts accompany the water into the blood stream and 
PHY. 



194 FOOD AND DIGESTION. 

are used up, in growing children, to manufacture bone and 
other tissues requiring salts. Part goes, as we have seen, 
in producing the hydrochloric acid of the gastric juice, the 
iron of the haemoglobin, etc. Eventually the salts are 
excreted by the body, some in their original form, but 
others with an altered composition. The salts are got rid 
of in the sweat, the urine, and the excreta from the intestine. 
The water is got rid of through the same channels, and in 
addition a large quantity is excreted with the breath. 

Action of Saliva. 

The solid part of the food is broken up by the teeth, 
and at the same time is mixed with the saliva. The 
ptyalin in the saliva slowly converts the starch into grape 
sugar. At the same time the sugar and the salts present 
dissolve in the saliva. As the time during which the food 
remains in the mouth is somewhat limited, it is obvious 
that this conversion of starch into sugar is necessarily only 
on a small scale. 

Action of Gastric Juice. 

The food is then swallowed, and reaches the stomach. 
Here it is quickly mixed with the gastric juice which, being 
acid, puts an end to the action of the saliva, because ptyalin 
is destroyed by acids. The pepsin in the gastric juice, 
together with the hydrochloric acid which accompanies it, 
converts the proteids into peptones. Peptones differ from 
other proteids in being very soluble, and are, moreover, 
diffusible, that is, they are able to pass through a mem- 
brane from a solution rich in them to a solution poor in 
them. These peptones rapidly pass through the lining 
membrane of the stomach and are absorbed into the blood 
vessels which lie beneath the mucous membrane. 

The muscular coats of the stomach contract, first in one 



FOOD AND DIGESTION. 195 

part and then in another, and so move the food about and 
churn it up thoroughly with the gastric juice. This churn- 
ing goes on until the whole of the contents of the stomach 
is brought to a semi-fluid consistency. The turbid fluid 
that thus results is called chyme. The gastric juice has 
no action on carbohydrates or on fats, but it assists the 
digestion of these bodies by dissolving away the proteids 
amongst which they lie. It also dissolves the proteid 
walls of the fat cells, while the warmth of the stomach 
melts the fat. 

Action of Bile and Pancreatic Juice. 

After a variable time usually between three and four 
hours the chyme passes through the pylorus into the 
duodenum, or first part of the small intestine. Here it is 
acted upon by two important liquids, the bile and the 
pancreatic juice. The first effect of these liquids is to 
make the acid chyme alkaline. This stops any further 
action of the pepsin. The pancreatic juice then converts 
any starch that may be present into malt sugar. Any pro- 
teids that have escaped the action of the gastric juice are 
also attacked by the pancreatic juice and converted into 
peptones. The peptones and the sugar pass directly into 
the blood vessels which lie in the villi. The bile has no 
action on proteids or starches. 

Both the bile and the pancreatic juice act upon fats. 
They mainly produce what is called emulsification. This 
simply consists in breaking up the fat into very tiny 
globules, which remain suspended in the liquid and do not 
run together again. If oil is shaken up briskly with water 
it is broken up into small globules, but these run together 
again on standing. By first adding a little carbonate of 
soda to the water, and then shaking up with oil, a much 
more permanent effect is produced, and this milky fluid 



196 FOOD AND DIGESTION. 

may be allowed to stand for some time without any of the 
oil running together again. The emulsification of fats by 
the bile and the pancreatic juice is greatly aided by the 
chemical change that the pancreatic juice causes fats to 
undergo. It acts upon a very small portion of the fat, 
and changes it into glycerine and a fatty acid. The fatty 
acid unites with the alkaline salts of sodium that are 
present and forms a soap, which greatly increases, the 
power of the pancreatic juice to emulsify fats. 

Unlike the sugars and the peptones, the emulsified fat 
is unable to pass direct into the blood vessels which lie 
below the mucous membrane of the villi. It can, however, 
pass through the epithelium covering the villi, and makes 
its way into the irregular vessel which occupies the centre 
of each villus, the lacteal vessel. Shortly after a meal, 
therefore, the lacteals will be filled with a milky fluid 
"which contains fine globules of fat. This milky fluid is 
called chyle. The chyle passes from the lacteal vessels 
into the lymphatic vessels, which finally pass it into the 
blood stream. 

Peristaltic Contraction. 

The food in the small intestine is moved along by a 
peculiar movement called peristaltic contraction. The 
circular fibres of the intestinal wall at any place contract, 
thereby decreasing the capacity of the intestine there, and 
so squeezing out the greater part of the contents at that 
point. This contraction is next taken up by the fibres 
adjoining these, and then by their neighbours, and so on, 
the contraction passing along the intestine like a wave, 
-and always towards the large intestine. 

By the time the food reaches the end of the small intes- 
tine it is semifluid, and has very little serviceable material 
left in it. It passes through the ileocaecal valve into the 



FOOD AND DIGESTION. 197 

large intestine. Here the remains of the useful material 
are absorbed, together with the greater part of the water, 
into the blood vessels which lie below the mucous mem- 
brane. These convey the food to the portal vein. As the 
contents are passed along they become more and more 
solid, until the remainder, which is chiefly the indigestible 
part of the food, is discharged from the rectum as faeces. 

Ultimate Results. 

It is sometimes useful to consider the process of digestion 
from another standpoint, namely by considering each chief 
foodstuff separately. Starch is acted upon in the mouth 
by the saliva, and is converted into sugar ; the same change 
of starch into sugar is also carried on by the pancreatic 
juice in the small intestine. Proteids are changed into 
peptones by the gastric juice in the stomach, and by the 
pancreatic juice in the small intestine. Fats are emulsified 
in the small intestine by pancreatic juice and bile. 

After it is digested, the food reaches the blood. In the 
case of sugar and peptones the passage seems to be direct 
from the alimentary canal to the blood vessel, but the 
emulsified fats pass first into the lymphatic vessels and 
then into the blood vessels. The blood brings all these 
foods to the various tissues of the body. Eventually all 
the food becomes changed into carbon dioxide, water, and 
urea, but this change may either be brought about very 
quickly or may be postponed for a long time by the food 
being converted into the tissues of the body. 

Excess or Deficiency of Food. 

Excess of food throws unnecessary work on those organs 
which have to deal with it, and leads to many forms of ill- 
health. There is little doubt that the majority of people 
who can afford to do so eat more than is necessary. The 



198 POOD AND DIGESTION. 

result is that not only are the organs concerned in the 
digestion and disposal of the food overtaxed, but also the 
body suffers from an accumulation of waste materials. 

Too little food leads to a condition of physical and 
mental incapacity, known as malnutrition. The precise and 
immediate effects differ slightly according to the kind of 
food that is specially deficient ; for example, a large number 
of children suffer from chronic starvation, so far as the 
fatty part of their food is concerned, and an increase in 
this kind of food is often attended by extremely satisfac- 
tory results. Many children also are always lacking the 
proper amount of proteid or nitrogenous food. Lack of 
food in children prevents proper growth and development, 
an effect which is accentuated if, at the same time, extra 
demands are made upon them by attempting to educate 
them in their half -starved condition. 

FEEDING OF SCHOOL CHILDREN. 

A large number of the badly nourished children suffer 
from unsuitable food rather than from lack of food. With- 
out adding anything to the family income, it would be 
possible to produce an immense effect upon the physique 
of the children if their dietary could be merely rearranged 
without adding to its cost. Such a step is only possible, 
however, by gradual instruction, and one of the most hope- 
ful of such methods of educational improvement is the 
object lesson afforded by the school meal. 

The Provision of Meals Act, 1906, gives to Local Edu- 
cation Authorities statutory powers in regard to the pro- 
vision of meals for children in elementary schools. In 
order to do this it is possible to combine with voluntary 
agencies, but the Local Authority may provide kitchens, 
dining rooms, and plant, as well as cooks, servers, and 
other necessary officers. To the extent of a halfpenny 



FOOD AND DIGESTION. 199 

rate, the Authority may provide food for such meals where 
sufficient funds are not forthcoming from voluntary con- 
tributions and parents' payments. Examples of economical 
and suitable meals are as follow : 

Dinners. 

(1) Yorkshire pudding, gravy, peas, bread. Eice and 

sultanas. 

(2) Lentil and tomato soup, bread. Currant roly- 

poly pudding. 

(3) Meat pudding (stewed beef and boiled suet pud- 

ding), bread. Ground rice pudding. 

(4) Scotch barley broth, bread. Currant pastry or 

fruit tart. 

(5) Irish stew, bread. Cornflour blanc-mange. 

The cost of these dinners is less than twopence per head. 

In providing school meals it should be remembered that 
a child of ten years of age requires, roughly, two and a 
half ounces of profceid. At least one ounce should there- 
fore be provided by the school dinner, and more than half 
an ounce by the school breakfast, where such is provided. 
Where one meal only is provided it is best to give a dinner, 
but in many cases breakfast should be given as well. 

Breakfasts. 

The proper breakfast for children is oatmeal porridge 
and boiled milk, with treacle or sugar. Some children, 
used to unsuitable food, will object to this at first, but 
there is rarely any permanent difficulty. Such a breakfast 
provides for all the needs of the child and costs only one 
penny per head. Possible alternatives are : 

Hot bread and milk. 

Bread and margarine, cocoa or hot milk. 

Bread and jam, cocoa or hot milk. 

Bread and dripping, cocoa or hot milk. 



200 FOOD AND DIGESTION. 

It should be clearly understood that Education Authori- 
ties liave the power to provide meals for poor children 
whose parents are unable to pay for them, and also for any 
and all children whose parents are willing to pay the sum 
determined by the Authority. A great deal may be 
expected from such powers in the future, and one may 
expect to ndd that the ultimate development will be that 
the midday meal at school will be the rule, and not the 
exception. 

Organisation. 

A School Canteen Committee is formed, composed either 
of members of the Education Authority or of such mem- 
bers acting in combination with the committee of any 
voluntary association for the provision of school meals. 
To this committee parents and teachers have the right to 
apply concerning children requiring to be fed. The school 
medical officer will, of course, have discovered many children 
needing better food, and such children will receive special 
attention. 

Each case should be carefully investigated as to circum- 
stances, and the ability of the parent to pay must be 
determined in accordance with a definite scale. A common 
method is to deduct the rent from the total family income, 
and then determine the income per head from the balance. 
Where this is less than three shillings per head it is 
usually regarded as a case for free meals, but of course 
some elasticity must be possible, especially in very small 
families. It is essential for all cases to be examined by 
the school medical officer as to physical condition, etc., and 
all applications should be endorsed by him. Unfortunately, 
however careful the administration may be carried out, it 
is obvious that many children who would greatly benefit 
from regular meals at school do not get them. The chief 



fOOD AND DIGESTION. 201 

difficulty is the parent who can afford to pay for such meals, 
but will not do so. The result of such difficulties is that 
the child may be permanently injured and stunted, or 
severely handicapped on account of deficient education, for 
life. 

Rooms in constant use for teaching are hardly suitable 
for serving meals, and so some room in the neighbour- 
hood should be obtained for the purpose. In future 
schools it is hoped that a special room will always be pro- 
vided for medical inspection, and if this is made sufficiently 
large it would do admirably for a dining-room as well. If 
several feeding centres are found to be necessary in a town, 
it will probably be best and most economical to prepare 
the food at a central kitchen and distribute it to the dining 
rooms. Where one dining room only is necessary for 
a small town the economical plan would be to prepare the 
food on the spot. 

Serving the Meal. 

The mere supply of the necessary food to ill-fed children 
is, of course, the essential idea that has led to the provision 
of meals for school children, but such value can be doubled 
by making the meals have the greatest possible educational 
value. Many of the children are utter strangers to a well- 
ordered meal, with its accompaniments of clean table cloth, 
clean crockery, and proper behaviour. To such children 
the school meal can be made a means of enlightenment 
and real education of even greater value than the ordin- 
ary school work. These beneficial effects can only be 
secured by adequate supervision and by very careful and 
thorough organisation. 

In the report of the Royal Commission occur these 
sentences : 

" We consider that the question of the proper and suffi- 



202 FOOD AND DIGESTION. 

cient feeding of children is one which has the closest 
possible connection with any scheme which may be adopted 
for their physical and equally for their mental work. It is 
evident that among the causes which tell against the 
physical welfare of the population, the lack of proper 
nourishment is one of the most serious. The subject 
demands special notice, not only as regards the existing 
state of affairs, but still more in view of any increase of 
physical training throughout the State-aided schools which 
may commend itself. 

" We are aware of the danger of further encroaching upon 
the independence of parents, and of entering upon the 
wide question of how far the State should go in relieving 
them of their primary responsibility. But we are not on 
that account deterred from calling attention to the neces- 
sity for better feeding, which, in our opinion, has been 
fully demonstrated, nor from considering a practical 
remedy. We have no desire to give encouragement to 
any inclination of the parent to abandon any of his duties 
and responsibilities in regard to the feeding and clothing 
of his children; but it must be remembered that, with 
every desire to act up to their parental responsibility, and 
while quite ready to contribute in proportion to their 
power, there are often impediments in the way of the home 
provision of suitable food by the parents. The proper 
selection, cooking, and preparation may often be matters 
of serious difficulty to many parents. It would be in many 
cases an inestimable advantage could regular and sufficient 
meals such as broth, porridge and milk, or bread and 
milk be provided at a minimum cost. The preparation 
and cooking of these meals, where it is found necessary to 
provide them, ought to be regarded as one of the charges 
incident to school management. 

"In like manner we think that an obligation for the 



FOOD AND DIGESTION. 203 

proper supervision of the feeding of those who come for 
instruction should be regarded as one of the duties of 
school authorities, and that teachers should be instructed 
to take note of all children apparently ill fed. Unless 
children receive sufficient nourishment, they cannot be 
expected to profit by the mental or physical training pro- 
vided for them." 

As an initial effort the mere provision of a glass of good 
milk during the morning and also the afternoon school 
would produce a most gratifying effect upon the underfed 
scholars. 

The report of the Inter-departmental Committee ap- 
pointed on March 14th, 1905, contains a number of details 
with regard to schemes which have been instituted in 
various towns for the feeding of children attending public 
elementary schools, and concludes with a summary of 
recommendations for better organisation. The scope of 
these recommendations is limited by the statement that 
they are to be taken to apply only where arrangements are 
made for feeding school children. The Committee did not 
consider it within the terms of the reference to recommend 
that such arrangement should be made, nor to express any 
opinion as to the wisdom from an economic or social point 
of view of relieving children, apart from their families, 
by the provision of school meals. 

The recommendations, distinguished mainly by the 
omission to touch upon the vital parts of the question or 
the points of most serious difficulty, are as follows : 

1. The local education authority, or some central body 
authorised for the purpose by them, should be kept regu- 
larly informed of any feeding of scholars which is in any 
way organised in connection with the schools maintained 
by the authority, and of all funds received by managers or 
teachers for that purpose. 



204 FOOD AND DIGESTION. 

2. The local education authority should cooperate as far 
as practicable with any feeding agency established in its 
area, and unless there is any good reason to the contrary, 
should be represented thereon, though such representation 
may not be feasible or even desirable in London and the 
county areas. 

3. Any organisation for feeding school children should 
be of a permanent character that is to say the framework 
of the organisation should be kept continuously in exist- 
ence, notwithstanding that its operations may be in some 
cases properly intermittent. 

4. Provision should be made for enabling meals to be 
given, where necessary, throughout the year, though sum- 
mer needs will generally be small. 

5. Where meals are provided it is desirable that they 
should be obtainable at least as often as every school 
day. 

6. The object of the agency should _be to feed the most 
destitute children regularly, rather than a large number 
irregularly. 

7. The children of families in temporary distress should 
be made the first care of any feeding agency. 

8. It is not desirable that teachers should be required 
to take part in serving or supervising children's meals. 

9. While teachers may properly make the initial selec- 
tion they should not be made responsible for the final 
choice of the children to receive meals. 

10. A " relief committee " should be formed for each 
school or group of schools, and provision should be made 
for placing on such committee an adequate number of 
women. 

11. In selecting children to receive meals (a) the infor- 
mation in the possession of the school attendance officers 
should be utilised; (6) the cooperation of Poor-law 



FOOD AND DIGESTION. 205 

guardians and relieving officers should be invited ; (c) as 
far as possible the cooperation of religious and philan- 
thropic agencies in the district should be enlisted ; 
(d) where there is a school medical officer or nurse, their 
advice and help should be obtained. 

12. Care should be taken to give adequate notice before- 
hand to their parents when children are to receive meals ; 
sufficient notice of the discontinuance of meals should 
similarly be given. 

13. The parents should be told clearly that they are in 
receipt of charitable relief for their children where such is 
the case, and greater effort might be made to obtain pay- 
ment from parents for the whole or part cost of meals 
supplied to their children. 

14. Care should be taken to make the meals orderly, and 
to give them a civilising and educative effect upon the 
children. 

15. Registers should be kept showing exactly what chil- 
dren have received food and on what days. 

16. Schoolrooms and classrooms should not be used for 
meals, if other convenient rooms can be found. 

17. Cookery centres may in some cases be usefully em- 
ployed for the provision of children's meals. But a cookery 
centre can only provide for a few children, and it should 
be remembered that its essential purpose is the provision 
of cookery instruction. 

Growth. 



The important questions involved in the discussion of 
nutrition, growth, and development of children are some- 
what beyond the scope of this book, but the following 
table from the report by the Royal Commission on Physical 
Training may be useful : 



206 



FOOD AND DIGESTION. 







British 


Boston School 


Edinburgh 






Population 


Children 


Schl. Children 






(Roberts). 


(Bowditch). 


(Mackenzie). 




Ages. 


Inches. 


Inches. 


Inches. 


Height, Boys 


... 6 to 9 


... 45-67 


... 46-15 


... 44-52 


Girls 


... 6 9 


... 44-64 


... 45-89 


... 44-51 


Boys 


... 9 ,,12 


... 51-68 


... 52-10 


... 50-20 


Girls 


... 9 ,,12 


... 50-96 


... 51-72 


... 49-93 


,, Boys 


... 12 15 


... 57-07 


... 58-34 


... 55-26 


Girls 


... 12 ,,15 


... 57-74 


... 58-74 


... 55-65 



Weight, Boys 

G-irls 

Boys 

Girls 
Boys 
Girls 



Ibs. 


Ibs. 


Ibs. 


49-6 


... 49-68 


... 46-60 


47-1 


... 48-25 


... 45-62 


66-6 


... 66-32 


... 59-53 


61-8 


... 63-95 


... 57-76 


83-7' 


... 89-12 


... 74-02 


86-7 


90-95 


78-36 



6 to 9 . 

6,, 9.. 

9 ,,12 .. 

9 12 .. 
12 ,,15 .. 
12 15 ., 

There is no doubt that the rate of growth is greatly 
affected by the surroundings, by exercise, and by food. 
During the physical examination of school children many 
questions present themselves, involving issues of tremen- 
dous importance to the well-being of the race. Concerning 
every scholar it should be asked whether the child is fully 
grown for his age. If he is not it should be ascertained 
whether the arrested development is due to hereditary 
causes, congenital defects, or such causes as lack of food, 
improper food, 'use of drugs, bad sanitary conditions at 
home, &c. 



CHAPTER VI. 



HOW TO TAKE CARE OF THE BABY. 

IN view of the growing feeling that some definite in- 
struction on the care of babies should be given to the 
children attending elementary schools, especially the elder 
girls, with a view to dissipating some of the appalling 
ignorance that prevails upon the subject, and thereby 
reducing the mortality among infants, it has been thought 
advisable to add a brief chapter on this important subject. 
The following notes consist mainly of the matter prepared 
some years ago by the author in consultation with Dr. J. R. 
Kaye, for printing and distribution over the administrative 
area of the West Riding County Council. Some twenty 
thousand similar leaflets have been issued in Hampshire 
by the County Council and by the various District Councils 
within the administrative area. 

The Baby. 

The eyes of the newly-born baby should be promptly 
cleansed and frequently examined. Should any redness 
or discharge appear, the doctor should be sent for at 
once, because affections of the eyes in newly-born 
babies, if neglected, often lead to blindness. On no 
account drop milk into the eyes, but use clean tepid water 
applied with a clean rag. 

207 



208 HOW TO TAKE CATCE OP THE BABY. 

Suckle the baby after it has been washed and dressed. 
If the mother has no milk at first it will be sufficient 
until the milk comes to give three or four teaspoonfuls of 
a mixture of one part of fresh milk and two parts of warm 
water. Do not give butter or gruel. 

The Baby's Food, 

Breast-feeding is best for the baby and the mother. 
Children fed in this way are stronger than those fed 
artificially (by hand or bottle), and are less liable to 



If the mother's milk is sufficient the baby should be 
breast-fed entirely until seven months old. After that 
age the feeding may be assisted by milk and milk prepara- 
tions as mentioned hereafter. 

When the mother's milk is not sufficient the child 
should be given prepared cow's milk in addition to the 
mother's milk. For example, the mother's milk may be 
sufficient for the morning and evening meal, and the 
remaining meals can be supplied in accordance with 
the directions given hereafter. It is better to feed a 
child even partly on the breast than entirely by the 
bottle. 

Times of Feedings. Up to three months of age suckle 
every two hours during day, and every four hours at 
night. Do not waken the child for food. 

After three months the intervals between the meals 
should be increased, so that at nine months of age 
the child has five meals during the day, and none at 
night. 

Weaning. Breast-feeding should be continued until the 
child is nine months old, but not much longer. Avoid 
weaning when the infant is ailing, or in the hot months 
when there is risk of diarrhoea. 



HOW TO TAKE CARE OF THE BABY. 209 

Artificial Feeding. 

If the mother has sufficient milk the child should not 
be given any other food at all for seven months. If 
the mother's milk is insufficient it may be assisted by 
using cow's milk modified as directed below. 

The milk should be obtained from a reliable dairy, and 
should be absolutely fresh at the time of being used. 
There is no advantage in using the milk from one cow 
only. ' 

To prepare the milk. Put the milk into a clean jug. 
Place the jug in a saucepan containing water, and boil on 
the fire for fifteen minutes. The water in the saucepan 
should boil all the time. The milk will not boil. The 
jug should be covered over, and kept covered afterwards 
to exclude dust and flies. 

To prepare the food. The milk which has been treated 
as above is mixed with the required proportion of water, 
according to the age of the child, and a tea spoonful of 
sugar is added to each pint of the mixture. No more 
food than is sufficient for one or two meals should be 
prepared at one time. 

Rules for Dilution. Use 1 part of milk to 2 of boiled 
water for the 1st month ; use 1 part of milk to 1 of 
boiled water for the 2nd and 3rd; use 2 parts of milk 
to 1 of boiled water for the 4th, 5th, and 6th month. 

After the sixth month the undiluted milk may be used. 

The addition of one tablespoonful of cream from the 
household milk to each pint of the mixture is an improve- 
ment and will greatly benefit the child. 

The amount at each meal. During the 1st month the 
child should have 4 tablespoonfuls ; during the 2nd and 
3rd, the child should have 6 tablespoonfuls. 

Then gradually increase the amount given so that the 
child is receiving 12 tablespoonfuls (i.e. six ounces) at 
PHY. HYCK 14 



210 



HOW TO TAKE CARE OF THE BABY. 



each meal by the end of the 7th month. Of course all 
food should be given at a proper warmth, i.e. very little 
warmer than the body. 

Time of Meals. First month, feed every 2 hours by day 
and 4 hours by night ; 2nd and 3rd, feed every 2 J hours by 
day and 4 hours by night ; 4th, 5th, 6th, feed every 3 hours 
by day and twice during night ; 7th, 8th, 9th, feed every 
3J hours by day and not during night unless the baby 
wakes. 

TABLE SHOWING HOW MUCH AN INFANT SHOULD BE GIVEN AT A 
TIME AND HOW OFTEN. 



Age. 


How often 
in day. 


How often 
at night. 


How much 
each time. 


Strength. 


Up to 4 

weeks old 


Every 
2 hours 


Every 
4 hours . 


4 ' 


1 


One- third milk. 


4 to 12 weeks 


2| hours 


-4 hours 


6 


1 


One-half milk. 


to 7 months 


3 hours 


Twice 


8 to 12 


B 

2 


Two-thirds milk, 
or all milk. 


From 8 to 12 
months old 


5 meals 
a day 




12 . 




Two meals of milk 
thickened with 
baked flour or 
bread - crumbs 
and boiled. 



N.B. The " tablespoonful" should equal half-an-ounce. 

Variation of Diet. 

Some variation of the diet may be obtained by using 
barley water instead of boiled water during alternate weeks. 
To make barley water take a tablespoonful of pearl barley 
and wash it in cold water. Cover it with a pint of water 



HOW TO TAKE CARE OF THE BABY. 211 

and boil for 15 minutes. When cold it is ready for use 
after straining. 

Where artificial foods are considered by the doctor 
absolutely necessary be careful to choose the one he recom- 
mends. 

Artificially fed children should be given a teaspoonful 
of sweetened juice of orange or lemon or apple each day. 
If real constipation exist, castor oil may be necessary, but 
careful feeding will obviate drugs. 

Care of the Food and the Bottle. The best form (the 
boat-shaped bottle) has a teat at one end and a plug at the 
other, so that a stream of water can be run through. 
Long rubber tubes are dangerous and should never be 
used. Wash the bottle and the teat thoroughly with boil- 
ing water and soda after each meal, turning the teat inside 
out. 

The exact amount of food for one meal should be put 
into the bottle each time, and if any is left it should not be 
kept for a second feed, but the bottle should be emptied at 
once and cleaned. 

It is a good plan to have two bottles and use them alter- 
nately. Keep the bottles, teats, and plugs immersed in 
clean cold water when not in use. 

The baby must not have ordinary food. It is highly dan- 
gerous to give a baby ordinary food. Before it is seven 
months old it must have nothing but milk in one form or 
another, and it is best to continue the milk diet longer. 
A baby less than eight months old should not have bread, 
sop, cornflour, potatoes, biscuits, or rusks. Beer, spirits, 
and pickles act as poisons to a baby. 

Condensed milk should not be used if fresh milk can be 
obtained. Never give skimmed milk. 

Dummy teats, soothing syrups, and teething powders 
should be avoided as harmful. 



212 HOW TO TAKE CARE OF THE BABY. 

Signs that Baby's food is not agreeing. Vomiting; 
diarrhoea, green stools, or undigested food in motions ; 
flatulence, windy spasms, or colic ; emaciation, wasting ; 
redness about buttocks or between thighs ; abnormal 
appetite ; perspiration, particularly of the head. 

Food after the Ninth Month. From nine to twelve months 
the child may have bread and milk, milk and egg, bread- 
crumbs and gravy. 

After the twelfth month the baby may have bread and 
milk, gravy and bread-crumbs, milk puddings, eggs, bread 
and treacle, porridge, bread and butter, bread and jam. 

General Notes. 

Clothing. The baby should be loosely and warmly clad. 
The clothes must not hinder the~free movements of the 
arms and legs. Tight binders greatly injure the child. 

Ordinary pins are dangerous for fastening baby's 
clothes. 

Washing. The baby must be bathed all over daily in 
warm water. There should be great care given to drying 
those parts of the body which are liable to be left wet, such 
as behind the ears, and between the legs, fingers and toes. 
These parts must be wiped quite dry with a warm towel. 
Puff-powder is useful. 

Sleep. A baby should be encouraged to sleep after 
every meal. Babies require a large amount of sleep if they 
are to thrive. No baby should sleep with the mother. A 
basket, or box, or cot should be prepared for it. 

Put the baby to bed early each evening at a fixed time. 
Babies should not be kept downstairs at night. 

Fresh Air. Some part of every day should be spent in 
the open air. The window of the room in which the baby 
sleeps should never be completely closed. 

Posture. Perambulators in which the baby has to sit 



HOW TO TAKE CARE OF THE BABY. 213 

upright should be condemned, and no baby should be 
nursed in the upright position. Deformities and defects 
of development are easily caused by the baby sitting up 
before it is sufficiently strong to do so of its own accord, 
which is not before the seventh or eighth month. 

Weight. The average weight of a healthy baby at birth 
is just over 6| lb., increasing to over 7 Ib. at the end of the 
first month, and then adding about 1 lb. monthly, until at 
the age o twelve months the baby should weigh between 
18 and 19 lb. The actual weight is not so important as 
the fact that the increase should be progressive. 

The Mother. 

To rear a healthy child the mother must herself lead a 
quiet, healthy life, both before and after the child is born. 

A nursing mother's nipples should be carefully sponged 
and dried after each feeding. If they become sore a doctor 
should be consulted at once. 

The mother should obtain an abundance of plain, nourish- 
ing food. Milk and foods prepared with milk, such as 
cocoa and milk puddings, are particularly valuable. Oat- 
meal porridge, eggs, meat, fish, etc., are excellent foods. 
No spirits or any alcoholic drinks should be taken by the 
mother. Alcohol in any form injures the mother and the 
baby. 

The mother should obtain regular exercise every day, and 
should spend as much time as possible in the open air. 
The window of the bedroom should always be a few inches 
open, and the position of the bed so arranged that there is 
no exposure to draught. 

Warm, loose clothing should be worn. 

The bowels should act regularly every day, but no drugs 
should be taken if they can be avoided, and only under the 
doctor's directions. 



CHAPTER VII. 
EESPIRATION. 

THE RESPIRATORY SYSTEM. 

ON its way to the lungs the air passes through (a) the 
mouth or nose, (6) the pharynx, (c) the larynx, (d) the trachea, 
(e) the bronchi and their branches. 

Pharynx and Larynx. 

The pharynx is a wide funnel-shaped cavity, four inches 
long, at the back of the nose and mouth. It divides below 
into two tubes, one behind the other. The posterior tube 
is usually collapsed, as it has only soft flabby walls : this is 
the oesophagus, or the tube to convey the food from the 
pharynx to the stomach. The front tube has hard cartila- 
ginous walls, and so is always kept open : this is the begin 
ning of the windpipe, and is called the larynx, or voice-box. 
It is continued below as the trachea. 

Trachea and Bronchi. 

The trachea is a round open tube, about 4J inches long, 
and 1 inch wide. It is kept open by C -shaped rings of 
cartilage, the open part of the C being directed backwards 
so as to present a continuous cartilaginous ring in front. 
There are from 16 to 20 of these rings. 

It is lined inside with columnar epithelium, on the surface 
of which are numerous hair-like processes called cilia. 

214 



RESPIRATION. 215 

These, during life, are constantly in motion and tend to 
drive any fluid that is on them outwards towards the mouth. 
These cilia also line the larynx and all the branches of the 
trachea. The middle coat of the trachea consists of muscle, 
cartilage, and fibrous tissue. The external coat consists 
of connective tissue containing a little fat. 




Fig. 95. 
TRACHEA AND BRONCHI. 

Close to the lungs the trachea divides into two tubes 
called the bronchi, the right bronchus going to the right 
lung and the left bronchus to the left lung. These bronchi 
again divide and subdivide, until finally the branches are so 
small that they can only be distinguished by the microscope. 
The smallest tubes are called bronchioles, or bronchial tubes, 



216 



RESPIRATION. 



The branches of the trachea have a similar structure to 
the trachea itself, but the bands of cartilage become less 
and less complete as the branches get smaller, until they 
are merely scattered pieces of cartilage ; they altogether 
disappear in the smallest tubes. The bronchioles end 
in dilated cavities called infundibula, which have a large 
number of tiny balloon- shaped chambers opening into them. 
Each of these chambers is called an alveolus (see Fig. 96). 



Alveolus 



Infundi- 
-bulum 




A, Outside View. B, Section. 

Fig. 96. 
TERMINATION OF BRONCHIOLE (magnified). 



The Lungs. 

The lungs are therefore made up of an enormous number 
of infundibula or dilated ends of the bronchioles. These 
are connected together by fine connective tissue, and the 
whole is covered by a transparent elastic membrane, the 
pleura. The alveoli are lined internally by a layer of 
flattened cells joined edge to edge. Beneath this is a layer 



RESPIRATION. 217 

of elastic tissue, and a close network of capillary blood- 
vessels. The blood in the capillaries is only separated from 
the air in the alveolus by a very thin delicate partition. The 
pulmonary artery breaks up into these capillaries, and the 
blood is collected again into the pulmonary vein, which 
takes it back to the heart. 

Externally the lungs are of a mottled purple colour, are 
spongy to the touch, and are covered by the smooth glisten- 
ing pleura. They may be easily expanded by blowing in 
air, but when left to themselves they shrink again, because 
the walls are composed partly of elastic tissue, as we have 

Capillaries 

ling of air cells 




Capillary 
blood-vessels 



Fig. 97. 

SECTION OF ALVEOLUS (Diagrammatic). 
(Very highly magnified.) 

said above. Some air always remains in the lung, and so 
if a piece of lung is thrown into water it will float. 

In their natural condition in the thorax, the outer sur- 
face of each lung is pressed closely against the inner surface 
of the walls of the chest. The air has no access to the 
outside of the lungs, and the pressure of the atmosphere 
is warded off by the muscular and bony walls of the 
thorax. Inside the lungs, however, the air has free access 
through the trachea and bronchioles, and so the atmospheric 
pressure keeps the lungs distended, causing each lung to 
fill up completely each half of the thorax. When the 
cavity of the thorax is increased in size the pressure of the 



218 RESPIRATION. 

atmosphere expands the lungs by forcing more air into 
them. On the other hand, if the size of the thorax is 
decreased, some of the air is forced out. It is important 
to understand and to remember that the atmospheric pres- 
sure can only expand the lungs when, by some means or 
other, the cavity of the thorax is increased in size. 

RESPIRATION. 

Eespiration consists of two acts : (a) inspiration, or the 
drawing of air into the lungs and (6) expiration, or the act 
of forcing air out of the lungs. Respiration is effected by 
the alternate enlargement and contraction of the thorax, 
and the double act takes place in the ordinary adult about 
16 to 20 times per minute. 

Inspiration: 

Inspiration is effected chiefly by (a) the contraction and 
descent of the diaphragm, and (fe) the contraction of the 
intercostal and other muscles, causing the ribs and sternum 
to be elevated. 

Reference to the figure of the diaphragm will cause the 
first to be easily understood. If the diaphragm contracts 
it will become straighter, and so enlarge the cavity of the 
thorax. This, as explained above, will cause air to rush 
into the lungs. The other method of increasing the size 
of the thorax is by elevating the ribs and pushing out the 
sternum. Each rib describes a greater arch than the 
one above, and evidently, therefore, if each is suddenly 
raised into the position previously occupied by the one 
above, the size of the thorax will be increased. 

In men the diaphragm is the more important factor in 
causing inspiration, while in women the movement of the 
ribs and sternum is more conspicuous. 



RESPIRATION. 



219 



Expiration. 

Expiration is effected mainly by the natural elasticity of 
the lungs and the weight of the ribs. The elasticity of the 
lung tissue tends to force out the air, while the weight of 



Position after' 
Insp i ratioif 



Stern 




Diaphragm 
contracted 

for. 
inspiration, 



Fig. 98. 

MOVEMENT OF RIBS, STERNUM, AND DIAPHRAGM. 

The dotted lines show the position occupied by the Sternum, Ribs, Diaphragm, 
and Abdominal Walls at the end f a full inspiration. 

the ribs causes them to fall, and so reduce the size of the 
chest. In forced expiration, as in coughing or sneezing, 
the abdominal muscles are used in order to press up the 
diaphragm, thereby decreasing the capacity of the thorax 
and forcing out the air. 



220 EESPIBATION. 

Quantity of Air. 

At each inspiration an adult takes in about 30 cubic 
inches of air, and breathes out the same quantity during 
the succeeding expiration. This is called the tidal air. 
At the end of ordinary expiration an extra 100 cubic inches 
can be driven out by forced expiration, and this is called 
the supplemental air. Similarly, the extra 100 cubic inches 
that may be forced into the chest at the end of ordinary 
inspiration is called the complemental air. The air left in 
the lungs at the end of forced expiration is called residual 
air, and measures another 100 cubic inches. Obviously, 
therefore, at the end of ordinary expiration there are about 
200 cubic inches of air in the lungs, and this air, which is 
called the stationary air, is only renewed by being mixed 
with the tidal air in the bronchial tubes. This mixing of 
the stationary air with the tidal air prevents too sudden 
changes of temperature in the lungs. 

Changes in the Air. 

The composition of the air going into the lungs is, as we 
have seen : 

Nitrogen 79 per cent. 

Oxygen 20'96 

Carbon dioxide *04 

together with a variable quantity of water vapour. 
Expired air consists of : 

Nitrogen 79 '4 per cent. 

Oxygen 16*3 

Carbon dioxide 4*3 

Expired air is always saturated with water vapour, and 
also contains small quantities of other gases and organic 
impurities. Expired air therefore differs from inspired 
air. 



RESPIRATION. 221 

(a) It contains more carbon dioxide. 
(6) It also contains more water vapour. 

(c) The oxygen is decreased. 

(d) The temperature is raised to about 96 Fahr. 

(e) It contains organic impurities. These are the most 

injurious of the impurities produced by respira- 
tion. 

Changes in the Blood. 

The blood that reaches the capillaries of the lung is 
impure, containing an excess of carbon dioxide and a defi- 
ciency of oxygen. It is purple in colour, and is derived 
from the veins of all parts of the body. When passing 
through the lung capillaries the blood is only separated 
from the air in the lungs by a very thin membrane. Oxygen 
and carbon dioxide can pass readily through this mem- 
brane, and, as the result of this, the blood going away 
from the lungs is "arterial" in character, has a bright 
red colour, and contains about twice as much oxygen, but 
less carbon dioxide, than the blood coming to the lungs. 

One hundred volumes of venous blood (i.e. blood coming 
to the lungs) contain 

10 volumes of oxygen, 
46 carbon dioxide ; 

while 100 volumes of arterial blood (i.e. blood going 
away from the lungs) contain 

20 volumes of oxygen, 
39 ,, carbon dioxide. 

This extra oxygen is carried to the heart along the pul- 
monary vein, and from the heart all over the body by the 
arteries, and is used up in oxidising the waste matters of 
the body, thereby producing heat. Part of it returns to 
the lungs in the form of carbon dioxide and water, and is 
expired. 



222 RESPIRATION. 

Loss from the Lungs. 

An adult breathes out about '6 cubic foot of carbon 
dioxide per hour. This in twenty-four hours amounts to 
about 14^ cubic feet. The oxygen in this is derived from 
the air, but the carbon is derived from the tissues of the 
body. There are about eight ounces of carbon in this 
volume of carbon dioxide. The above amount of carbon 
dioxide is given off when the body is at rest. During 
work this quantity is greatly increased, being '9 cubic 
foot per hour during light work, and 1/9 cubic feet during 
hard work. 

The water lost from the lungs as water vapour during 
the twenty-four hours may be taken as half a pint. 

Suppose, for instance, a concert room contains about 
2,000 people and that the concert lasts for two hours. 
During this time there would be poured into the air in the 
breath of the people about 11 gallons of water and as much 
carbon as there is in a hundredweight of coal ! 



CHAPTER VIII. 



EXCEETION. PERSONAL CLEANLINESS. 

WE have seen that the blood receives various nutrient 
principles from the intestines. It hands over this nourish- 
ment to the different organs, to be disposed of in the ways 
that we have already discussed. From the air in the 
lungs the blood receives a supply of oxygen which is used 
up all over the body in oxidising the foods which have 
been taken. As a result of these oxidation processes, 
various waste products (water, carbon dioxide, urea, etc.) 
are formed, and these are poured into the blood again. 
The blood, therefore, not only brings up the foods and the 
oxygen, but it takes away the waste products that are 
formed. To prevent these injurious waste products from 
accumulating in the blood, some organs have been given 
the work of getting rid of them. For example, we have 
seen that the lungs get rid of carbon dioxide, water, and 
a small quantity of organic impurities. The other organs 
which help to clean the blood from the waste matters are 
the kidneys and the skin. 

THE KIDNEYS. 

The kidneys are two in number, and are situated in the 
abdomen, one on each side of the vertebral column, in the 
lumbar region. They are of well-known shape, and are 
dark red organs, about four inches long and two and a half 

223 



224 



EXCRETION. 



inches across, and each weighs about five ounces. In front 
they are covered with peritoneum, the back being attached 
to the body wall. 

They are so placed in the body that the concave edges 
face each other, the outer edge being convex. The de- 
pression at the middle of the concave inner edge is called 
the hilus. At this point the renal artery and the renal 
vein enter and leave the kidney, the one bringing blood 

from the aorta, and 
Interior Vena Gave. 
Aorta 



_. Left Kidney 



... Ureter 



the other taking away 
blood to the inferior 
vena cava. Nerves, 
lymphatics, and a nar- 
row tube called the 
ureter are also found 
at the hilus. As it 
approaches the kidney, 
the ureter expands like 
a funnel, this dilated 
part being called the 
pelvis of the kidney. 

Each ureter is about 
fourteen inches long. 
It passes down from 
the kidney to the blad- 
der, which is situated 

in front of the bony pelvis. The bladder is a muscular 
bag lined with mucous membrane, and is partly covered 
with peritoneum. 

The ureters enter in an oblique manner, so that a little 
flap is formed inside the bladder, and this flap acts as a 
kind of valve, preventing the urine from passing back up 
the ureter. The function of the bladder is to store the 
urine which is constantly trickling into it from the ureters, 




.-Bladder 



Fig. 99. 

THE URINARY ORGANS. 



EXCBETION. 



225 



and to discharge it at intervals. When moderately dis- 
tended, it will hold a pint. 

If a kidney is cut into two, it seems to be formed of two 
portions : an outer layer, which is dark brown, smooth, and 
uniform in appearance ; and an inner part, which is paler, 
and is composed of a finely striped substance arranged in 
several pyramids. The outer layer is called the cortex of 
the kidney, and the inner part the medulla. The apex of 







Fig. 100. 

SECTION OF KIDNEY (Diagrammatic). 

each pyramid called the papilla projects into the pelvis 
of the kidney. 

The substance of the kidney is composed of an enormous 
number of minute tubules. These are straight in the 
medulla, and convoluted in the cortex. They are richly 
supplied with blood-vessels, which form a network all round 
them. The whole of each tube is lined with epithelium, 
and the epithelial cells separate the urine from the blood. 
The urine passes along the tube until it reaches a common 
opening, at the tip of a papilla. It then trickles into 

PHY. HYOK 15 



226 EXCRETION. 

the pelvis of the kidney, and down the ureter to tho 
bladder. 

The function of the kidney is to secrete urine, from the 
blood. Healthy urine is a clear pale yellow fluid con- 
sisting of water in which are dissolved various substances : 
these are mainly common salt, phosphates and sulphates of 
sodium and potassium, and an organic substance called 
urea. About 50 ounces from two to three pints of urine 
are excreted in twenty-four hours. This quantity contains 
about two ounces of solid matter, one and a quarter ounces 
of which consists of urea. 

Urea contains about half its weight of nitrogen, and it 
represents the nitrogenous part of our food. The student 
will remember that we said that a man requires 300 grains 
of nitrogen in his daily food. Two hundred and forty 
grains of this are secreted in the form of urea, in the urine, 
and the remainder in the form of another organic sub- 
stance, called uric acid. 

The amount of urine passed in a day varies with the 
temperature. In cold weather more urine is passed than 
in warm weather. This is because the cold contracts the 
blood-vessels in the skin, and thereby causes more blood 
to go to other parts, including the kidneys. The extra 
supply of blood causes the extra secretion of urine. In 
warm weather this is reversed. It is only the water that 
varies ; the solids in the urine do not vary much. 

THE SKIN. 

The uses of the skin may be classified as follows : 

(1) It serves as a protective layer on the surface of 

the body. 

(2) The skin is really one of the excretory organs of 

the body. By means of the sweat glands that 



EXCRETION. 227 

it contains it gets rid of about one pint of water 
in twenty-four hours. Small quantities of other 
substances are also got rid of in the sweat. The 
skin therefore forms one of the three organs of 
the body that get rid of water, the other two 
being the lungs and the kidneys. 

(3) By the special arrangement of the nerves in it, the 

skin serves as an organ of touch. 

(4) The sweat glands in the skin have the power of 

covering the skin with water, which, by its 
evaporation, causes heat to be lost, and the body 
is thereby cooled. On the other hand, if the 
sweat is not secreted so abundantly as to make 
the skin actually wet, the loss of heat from the 
body is minimised, although loss by evaporation 
from the skin is continually going on. 

Structure of the Skin. 

The skin is made up of two layers : an outer layer, called 
the epidermis, and an inner layer called the dermis. 

The epidermis varies greatly in thickness in different 
parts of the body, being thickest on the soles of the feet, 
the palms of the hands, and on the back. 

The deepest, or Malpighian, layer of the epidermis is 
next to the dermis, and is formed of columnar cells lying 
perpendicularly to the surface of the dermis. These cells 
are soft and contain a nucleus. The dark colour of the 
skin of the negro and other races is due to a deposit of 
dark pigment in the lowest cells of the Malpighian layer. 

The cells above the Malpighian layer are shorter and 
rounder in shape than those in the lowest layer. The layers 
still nearer the surface of the skin consist of cells which 
have lost their nucleus and become natter and natter as 
they approach the surface, until those on the outside are 



228 



EXCRETION. 



merely scales. The superficial layers are hard and horny 
and form the corneous layer. This is the part of the skin 
which is raised as a blister. The epidermis forms the pro- 
tective layer of the skin. It is transparent, and is imper- 
meable to liquids. There are no nerves or blood-vessels in it. 
The dermis, or true skin, consists of a strong network of 
connective tissue, which contains blood-vessels, nerves, 



Pore 



Corneous 



Layer 




-Sweet gland 



Fig, 101. 

SECTION OF SKIN (Highly Magnified). 

glands, and the roots of hairs. The surface of the dermis 
is thrown up into small conical processes which project into 
the epidermis. These processes, called papillae, are highly 
developed in those parts where the sense of touch is acute, 
and so probably they represent that part of the skin which 
acts as the organ of the sense of touch. They are well 
supplied with blood-vessels and nerves. The deeper part 



EXCRETION. 



220 



of the dermis is connected to the bone or muscle under- 
neath by loose connective tissue which usually contains a 
considerable quantity of fat. 

The Glands of the Skin. 

These are of two kinds : the sweat glands, and the 
sebaceous glands. The sweat glands secrete the sweat, 
while the sebaceous glands secrete a fatty substance which 
serves to soften the skin and hair. The sebaceous glands 
are usually connected with hairs. 

Sweat Glands. On the surface of the epidermis may be 
seen small openings called pores. These are easily visible 
through a small magnifying glass. The number of pores 
varies greatly in different parts of the body, there being 
about 3000 per square inch on the palms of the hands, and 
only 600 on the back and legs. They are the openings of 
the tubes which convey the sweat from the glands to the 
surface. If one of these tubes is followed downwards, it 
is found to lead through the epidermis in a spiral or cork- 
screw fashion, and then to the lower part of the dermis. 
where it becomes coiled into a kind of a knot, forming the 
sweat gland. Among the coils are numerous blood-vessels, 
The cells lining the sweat glands secrete the sweat from 
the blood. 

Perspiration. Usually the sweat is secreted continually, 
but in small quantities, so that it evaporates from the skin 
as fast as it reaches the air. This is called insensible 
perspiration. During exertion, or in hot weither, the 
sweat is poured out in large quantities, so that it is visible 
on the surface of the skin, and is called sensible perspira- 
tion. As the water evaporates it absorbs heat from the 
body, thereby lowering the temperature. 

Composition of Sweat. The sweat consists mainly of 
water with a very small amount of substances dissolved 



230 



EXCRETION. 



in it. The dissolved substances are chiefly common salt, 
some organic bodies, and a little carbon dioxide. 

Hairs and Nails. 

Hairs are formed of horny cells from the epidermis. 
Each hair lies in a deep pit called the hair follicle. The 
pits are lined with epidermis, which forms a sheath for the 
root of the hair. At the bottom of the follicle is a papilla 
covered with cells of epidermis, and by the multiplication 
of these epidermal cells the hair grows. As the new cells 
are formed, the older ones are thrust outwards and form 
the shaft of the hair. 



..Epidermis 



.Root of hair 



Fig. 102. 

SECTION OF SKIN WITH HAIRS. 




Nails are another form of specialised epidermis. They 
consist of two parts, a root and a body. The root is that 
part of the nail which is covered by the skin ; the body is 
the external part which ends in the free edge. A nail 
grows in much the same way as a hair, i.e. by the multi- 
plication of the epidermal cells at its root. 

Cleanliness. 



The surface of the skin is constantly receiving sweat 
from the sweat glands, and greasy matter from the 
sebaceous glands. These keep the skin moist and greasy, 



PERSONAL CLEANLINESS. 231 

causing the dead scales of epidermis to remain sticking to 
it, and also rendering the skin liable to accumulate dirt, 
dust, and particles of clothing. If the skin is not regularly 
cleaned, a cake or plaster forms upon it consisting of dried 
sweat, dirt, scales of dead skin, and grease. This unclean- 
liness leads to injurious and disagreeable results, the chief 
of which are : 

1. The sweat glands are obstructed by the dirt. This 

puts an end to their use in getting rid of some of 
the waste matters of the body, and throws an 
extra amount of work on the other organs, i.e. 
the kidneys and the lungs. 

2. The sebaceous glands also may become stopped up, 

giving rise to little black spots, called black 
heads. 

3. The cake of dirt upon the skin lessens the sensibility 

of the skin. 

4. The cake is a good soil for germs to grow and mul- 

tiply in, and these may give rise to all kinds of 
skin diseases. 

5. The dirt may putrefy and cause the stench that 

always surrounds dirty people. 

6. Dirty people are always liable to have parasites 

living upon them. 

The use of water alone is not sufficient to remove this 
greasy dirt, but something must be used that will combine 
with the grease and make it soluble. Such a substance is 
soap. 

PERSONAL CLEANLINESS. 

The test of the cleanliness of the children in our elemen- 
tary schools is the condition of their heads. The condition 
of the hair and scalp of the girls is usually infinitely worse 



PERSONAL CLEANLINESS. 

than the boys'. It should be compulsory that the hair of 
all the children be cropped short. In France and other 
countries such a cropping of hair in the elementary schools 
is universal. The cleaner the parents are the more energeti- 
cally they should support such a suggestion, because it 
would help to prevent their children being contaminated 
"by dirty schoolmates. 

Dirt and neglect constitute two of the primary evils of 
child life. Much of the disease and injury to health is 
the result of personal uncleanliness. Defects of vision, 
ulcerated corneas, inflamed eyelids, and other conditions 
are often the direct results of dirtiness,- while wounds and 
sores, chilblains and discharging ears are aggravated by 
such conditions. 

Unclean heads are unfortunately only too common in 
our schools. It is nothing short of a public scandal that 
most large towns are taking no steps to prevent this. 
Under the present conditions it is almost impossible for a 
clean child to attend our public elementary schools without 
being infected with parasites on the scalp. It should be 
the duty of the education authority to insist upon clean 
heads among the children attending school. The follow- 
ing is Dr. Kerr's scheme adopted by the London County 
Council : 

"The nurses visit the schools and select all children 
with unclean heads. A card, enclosed in a sealed envelope, 
with a part easily separated (line of perforation) is given to 
each child to lake home. 

" The card has on it simple directions for treatment and a 
statement that children not treated after a few days will 
be separated from the others. The parent is requested to 
read the instructions and sign and return the attached 
portion, or the child will be separated from the other 
children forthwith. 



PERSONAL CLEANLINESS. 233 

" On the front of the card there is printed : 

Private Notice. 

Your attention is drawn to the condition of this child's head, 
which has been noticed in school. The school nurse has examined 
it and states that by attention to the directions given on the other 
side it can be rendered permanently clean within a week. If cleans- 
ing is not effected by that time the child will have to be kept 
separated from the others in school until the unclean condition is 
remedied. 

" On the back of the card : 

Instructions for Cleansing Heads. 

Where there are sore places, scabs, or enlarged glands, these will 
generally get better on removing all lice and nits. 

It is possible to effect a cure in about a week. 

All hairs with nits and all hair within a quarter of an inch of a 
sore must be cut off. 

The head must be washed and scrubbed daily with paraffin oil, to 
which an equal quantity of olive oil may be added. If there are 
scabs, these when softened should be removed. 

Repeat this treatment daily for a week, then weekly till all signs 
of lice are gone. 

Where there is difficulty in keeping a child's head clean the hair 
should be worn cut short. 

Iron the collar of the clothes with a hot iron. 

Caution. Do not use paraffin near a fire or naked light. 

" The attached portion reads : 

I have read instructions on the back of the card and will endeavour 

during the ensuing week to get into a healthy and clean 

condition. 

Signed 

" At the end of a week from the nurse's first visit all cases 
not treated or not returning the card are separated from the 
other children, and cases not returning the card signed by 
the parent have a home visit by the nurse ; if at the nurse's 
fourth school visit no attempt at treatment has been made, 
the case is notified to the School Attendance Officer, and a 



234 PERSONAL CLEANLINESS. 

second card left at the house by him on which the treat- 
ment is again set forth, the failure to adopt remedy pointed 
out, and a statement that if at the end of a week (nurse's 
sixth visit) the child has not had treatment it will be 
excluded from the school, and that the parents or guardians 
will be liable to immediate prosecution. The Medical 
Officer visits the school and personally examines these chil- 
dren, as far as possible, at or between the nurse's fourth 
or sixth visit. 

" On the front of the second card there is printed : 
Second Warning. To the Parents or Guardians of . 

A Private Notice regarding the condition of this child's head 
having been sent you, and as this condition, which could be 
remedied in a week, is still allowed to persist, the child has now 
been separated in school as unfit to be in the ordinary class. You 
are required to take steps to cleanse its head within the next week, 
failing which the child will be excluded from school and you will 
be liable to prosecution and fine for not sending it in a fit state to 
school. The means for cleansing these heads is given on the other 
side of this card. 

" On the back of the second card the instructions on the 
first card are repeated. 

" By the end of three weeks the habitual offenders are 
weeded out for prosecution, and the others have been 
cleansed. The whole treatment was much resented by 
many mothers, but with tact and patient explanation their 
good sense asserted itself and few children remained 
unclean." 

The results of this scheme in eight of the schools are as 
follows : 

Depart- Number First Second Partly Proposed 

ment. Examined. Clean. Verminous. Notice. Notice. Cleansed, for Ex- 
clusion. 

Boys 2492 2450 42 22 2 2 
Girls 2422 1355 1067 740 183 163 15 
Infants 2593 2207 386 269 55 99 4 



PERSONAL CLEANLINESS. 

Probably most towns and districts have found it pos- 
sible to arrange similar schemes without employing any 
nurses at all, or at all events without allowing the nurses 
to play quite so prominent a part as they appear to do 
under the London County Council schemes. The author's 
experience is that the average teacher is quite as skilful 
and probably at least as intelligent as the average nurse. 
In most schools there are some members of the staff who 
have made a special study of the hygiene of child life. 
For a great deal of the work the employment of such 
teachers will be more economical and quite as effective as 
the employment of nurses. 

The plan adopted by the author for the cleansing of 
heads of children from vermin is to instruct the parents 
to give the child on the first night a hot bath, using 
plenty of soap, and paying particular attention to the 
thorough cleansing of the scalp and hair. Paraffin oil 
is then thoroughly rubbed over the hair and scalp, after 
careful drying. This treatment is repeated on each of 
the two successive evenings, i.e. the scalp and hair are 
thoroughly soaped, washed, and dried, and then paraffin 
rubbed on. These three applications result in a complete 
cure in practically every case. 

Yerminous heads are comparatively rare among the 
shorter-haired boys, while about one in three or four girls 
is usually found to need attention in this respect. In 
many cases the clothing and body are badly infected, and 
vermin are to be found in every seam and clinging to the 
skin. A great source of the spread of vermin is second- 
hand clothing and the pawnshop. The houses from which 
such children come are usually infected in the same way. 
If only the home could be disinfected and cleansed a 
splendid work would be carried out. 

In all towns the children attending schools in the poorer 



236 PERSONAL CLEANLINESS. 

districts are nearly all more or less infected with vermin. 
This should at once receive the attention of all education 
authorities, as the bodily cleanliness of the children should 
be regarded as the essential commencement of all school 
hygiene. 

" There are among the teachers a few, excellent and 
enlightened, who give practical teaching ; who insist in 
every possible case upon the children wearing collars and 
pinafores ; who insist on tidy hair and clean faces. But 
unfortunately some are easily discouraged, for it is uphill 
work, and what they do is often done during their well- 
earned leisure." 

All teachers should insist upon each child appearing with 
clean face and hands. If they fail to do this they should be 
obliged to wash in the school lavatories. The quantity of 
towels supplied in most school lavatories is grossly in- 
sufficient. 

School Baths. 

The problem of the personal cleanliness of the children 
can only be satisfactorily solved by the provision of school 
baths. These are neither costly to provide nor to maintain, 
and the real difficulty is not the trivial expense, but whether 
all responsibility in this direction should be removed from 
the parent, and also who is to superintend the bathing. 
Professor Shaw quotes an excellent plan adopted in a school 
in Chicago. A bath, soap, towels, and hot and cold water 
were all provided. " Pupils who .came to school unclean 
were sent to the principal, and the principal sent for the 
parent, usually the mother, and talked with her of the child's 
condition, explaining to her what was necessary, and then 
asked her to use the facilities provided and render the pupil 
fit to take his or her place in the class. This plan in its effect 
upon the district had proved, it is claimed, most salutary. 



PTRSONAL CLEANLINESS. 237 

It gave the parents an object-lesson in cleanliness ; it height- 
ened their appreciation of its necessity ; and in the best way 
the school reacted upon the homes of a certain part of the 
population without taking upon itself the duties which 
belong to the home." 

The provision of baths for schools is essential for the 
purpose of educating certain portions of the community iD 
bodily cleanliness. The institution of school baths and 
more or less compulsory cleaning is followed by an increase 
in the self-respect, an improvement in discipline, cleaner 
clothing, and the formation of habits which cling to the 
child for life. 

In Berlin there are many schools with baths. A bath is 
allowed each scholar once a week, and it usually takes five 
minutes. Bathing is not compulsory. Similarly at Zurich, 
In a Boston school of 800 children 125 are bathed daily, 
and the children have a bath once a week throughout the 
year. There is no compulsion, but practically every scholar 
welcomes the bath. A matron has charge of the girls' 
baths, and a man looks after the boys'. 



CHAPTEK IX. 

PERSONAL HYGIENE. 
CLOTHING: HABITS: SLEEP. 

CLOTHING. 

THE value of a material for clothing depends upon its 
non-conducting properties with regard to heat. By a good 
conductor of heat we mean a substance through which 
heat rapidly travels. In other words, if one part of a good 
conductor becomes warm, then the heat will rapidly spread 
over the whole of it. A bad conductor of heat, or a non- 
conductor, has the opposite properties, so that if one part 
of a non-conductor becomes heated, the heat spreads very 
slowly to the other parts. The application of this to 
clothing is easily understood when we remember that the 
temperature of the body is always about 98'6 F., while 
the external temperature rarely exceeds 90 F. in G-reat 
Britain. The temperature of the body is therefore higher 
than that of the surrounding air, and so the inside of our 
clothing will be warmer than the outside. Now if the 
clothing material is a good conductor of heat, the heat will 
rapidly pass from the inside to the outside, and on the 
outside it will be lost in warming the air in contact with it. 
On the other hand, if the material be a non-conductor, the 
heat will only very slowly pass to the outside and very 

little will be lost. 

238 



CLOTHING : HABITS : SLEEP. 2o9 

As a matter of fact the body loses heat in several ways, 
e.g. (1) By the skin. This is probably about 90 per cent, 
of the total loss. (2) By respiration, the expired air being 
warmer than the inspired air. Moreover, heat is lost by 
evaporation in the breath, the expired air being saturated 
with water vapour. (3) With the excreta. The first of 
these, the loss by the skin, is the only one that we can in 
any way control. 

The loss of heat by the skin takes place in three 
ways: 

1. By conduction, as we have explained above. This 

loss is very greatly augmented by wearing clothes 
made of a good conducting material. 

2. By radiation of the heat. The result of radiation is 

best illustrated by the warmth experienced when 
sitting near a bright fire. In this case the body 
receives the heat which is radiated from the fire. 
Similarly the body itself radiates heat. 

3. By evaporation. When the body is heated by exer- 

cise the surface of the skin becomes covered with 
moisture, which evaporates more or less rapidly 
according to the circumstances. In doing this it 
absorbs a large amount of heat from the body. 
It is at these times that the body is particularly 
liable to take a chill. The absorption of heat by 
evaporation is well illustrated by pouring a little 
spirit or ether on the hand, when a feeling of cold is 
experienced which is increased by blowing across 
the liquid. The loss of heat by the skin is greatly 
influenced by the weather. In hot weather very 
little heat is lost by conduction or radiation, but 
a large quantity is lost by evaporation. In cold 
weather this is reversed. 
The chief objects of clothing are (1) To prevent loss of 



240 CLOTHING: HABITS: SLEEP. 

heat. (2) To protect parts of the body that are especially 
liable to injury, e.g. the feet. (3) For ornament. The 
following rules should be observed with regard to cloth- 
ing - 

(1) It should be light. If proper attention is paid to 
material, there is no need for heavy clothes. In fact light 
clothes made of a non-conducting material are much warmer 
than heavy clothes made of material which conducts heat 
well. 





Fig. 103. 

NATURAL THORAX. THORAX DEFORMED BY CORSETS. 

(2) It should be loose. Every one knows how cold a 
pair of tight gloves are on a cold day. Air is a bad con- 
ductor of heat, and fluffy materials which contain much 
air in their interstices are far warmer than those which are 
closely woven. In the same way loosely fitting clothes are 
much warmer than those which fit tightly. Certain parts 
of the body are peculiarly liable to be constricted by 
clothing. For instance, the head is often surrounded with 
a tightly fitting hat which must press upon the blood vessels 



CLOTHING : HABITS : SLEEP. 



241 



and prevent the proper circulation of blood, thereby in- 
creasing the tendency to baldness. The neck is often 
constricted by a tight collar which interferes with the 
circulation and gives rise to headache. In women the 
lower part of the chest and the upper part of the abdomen 
are habitually constricted by corsets in order to produce 
the " waist." As a result of the constant pressure which 
is often begun at a very early age the ribs are perman- 
ently distorted and displaced inwards, causing compression 
and displacement of the lungs, heart, liver, stomach, and 





Fig. 104. 



FOOT DKFOBMED BY 
POINTED BOOTS. 



NATURAL 
FOOT. 



intestines. The natural waist is below the ribs and above 
the hips. 

The knee is often constricted with garters. The pressure 
here prevents the return of the blood through the veins, 
giving rise to varicose veins. The foot is almost always 
distorted by misshapen boots. In a properly made boot 
the great toe should be in a straight line with the inside of 
the foot, whereas it is usually bent towards the other toes 
in order to make the foot come to an unnatural point. 
PHY. HYG. . 16 



242 CLOTHING : HABITS : SLEEI*. 

In summing up we may say that tight clothes possess 
the following disadvantages: (a) They are less warm 
than loose clothes. (6) They are also less comfortable, and 
prevent the free movements of the limbs, (c) Any tight- 
ness across the chest will interfere with free respiration, 
(cf) They are very liable to displace internal organs and 
produce various ill effects in different parts of the body. 

(3) It should be porous. If clothing is not porous it 
will interfere with the evaporation resulting from perspira- 
tion. For this reason waterproof -materials should never 
be worn habitually. 

(4) It should be a bad conductor. The reason for this 
has already been explained. 

(5) The weight of the clothing should be mainly borne 
by the shoulders. Some of the weight may be thrown on 
the hips, but the waist should be relieved of the weight of 
clothes, in order to avoid displacement of the internal 
organs. 

An underclothing of flannel should be worn by all 
children. It is the worst conductor of heat, and so 
prevents any sudden change of temperature of the skin. 
It is also the best absorber and retainer of moisture. This 
underclothing should be worn by day throughout the year, 
but its consistency may be varied in winter and summer 
according to the temperature. It is just as important to 
remember that children may easily be overclothed. It is 
by no means uncommon to find several layers of flannel 
(even four or six) on some children. The result is that 
their skin becomes excessively sensitive and delicate, is 
never dry, and loses its power of reaction when chilled 
Such children are continually catching cold, and are 
subject to all kinds of ailments. 

Many parents at present fail to recognise any disgrace 
in sending children to school with torn and dirty clothes. 



CLOTHING : HABITS : SLEEP. 243 

It is by no means a question of poverty only ; in fact the 
worst instances of child neglect that the writer has met 
have come from homes where the father is earning plenty 
of money to keep his home decent and his children 
respectable, but the mother is either drunken or grossly 
incapable, or both. If the kind of sewing taught during 
the last thirty years in our elementary schools is ever to 
bear fruit, surely it is time now for it to appear. What 
these people require is to be taught to patch their clothes 
and to darn their stockings, and there is no reason why 
this should not be done in school, instead of wasting these 
children's time with fancy work. Another important point 
is to educate the popular taste towards hygienic, neat, 
durable garments, instead of torn soiled cheap finery that 
so often forms the ideal of dress among this unfortunate 
class. 

Intimately associated with the dress of children attend- 
ing primary schools, and with their squalor, filth, and 
untidiness, is that vile institution the pawnshop. Any 
decent apparel possessed by the children is regarded, and is 
used, as a kind of floating capital, and many of them out- 
grow a good garment before they have had the chance of 
wearing it out. To the pawnshop largely should also be 
attributed the sinking of the individual and the spread of 
disease and vermin, and until pawnshops are put down 
and a regular school uniform made compulsory, a great 
battle will have to be waged against untidiness, rags, and 
dirt in children. 

All children in attendance at an elementary school should 
be required to wear some simple, neat, hygienic dress. 
This would not only be a great advance from a hygienic 
point of view, but would also be economical and becoming. 
As things are at present the clothing of a large proportion 
of the children can only be described as a miscellaneous 



'244 CLOTHING J HABITS : SLEEP. 

collection of rags. The atmosphere of an elementary school 
on a wet morning is usually sickening. The woollen 
clothes have been worn for months or years, are perspira- 
tion-soaked, and reek with unhealthy miasm. These 
exhalations continue until the clothes are dry. It has been 
suggested that " a school uniform should be kept at the 
school for each scholar, and the children would change 
their out-of-school attire on reaching the cloak-room. 
Here any wet garments could be thoroughly dried. The 
uniform might be quite simple and light ; it should consist 
of linen in summer, of woollen in winter, and should be 
provided by the parents as a part of the school outfit, 
unless they are absolutely poor, in which case the State 
should provide it." 

Boys should wear a flannel vest and a simple blouse 
or woollen jersey, fitting loosely, and the material varying 
according to the season. The knickerbockers should be 
suspended round the hips, and if these fit properly above 
the thigh bones with an elastic band there will be no need 
for braces. The girls should wear a flannel chemise, blue 
serge knickerbockers fitted upon the thigh bones with an 
elastic band, and no stays, or any substitute for stays, of 
any kind. Next there should be a woollen jersey (or a 
cotton blouse in summer), and an overdress with shoulder 
straps fastened into the waist. In summer the children 
require no head covering. 

If some simple dress as the above could be universally 
adopted what a revolution would take place in the appear- 
ance, comfort, and health of our schools ! The children 
would gain self-respect, and the whole tone of the schools 
would be altered. 

The boots of children, in our climate, are important 
articles of clothing during more than half the year, Care- 
ful attention to the fitting of boots and shoes during 



CLOTHING: HABITS: SLEEP. 245 

childhood will save a lot of trouble in after life. Children 
should be taught that it is a sign of weakmindedness to 
wear boots that are too tight, or that hurt the feet in any 
way. Unfortunately a majority of the children in our 
elementary schools have no choice, and are compelled to 
wear anything that comes to hand. If they do get a pair 
of good boots they rarely wear them, because the inevitable 
pawnshop has intervened. Proper boots should be of suf- 
ficient length and breadth, should be practically straight 
along the inner edge in order to prevent distortion of the 
great toe, and should have low broad heels. Shoes are 
far better than boots. Dry boots, and warm woollen 
socks or stockings never cotton are requisite for the 
preservation of health. 

Clothing for Games. 

The boys should be encouraged to obtain special clothes 
for the games, both on the ground of economy and health. 
A loose flannel shirt and a short loose pair of knickers are 
all that are required (except for Eugby football, which 
requires a tight woollen jersey). Immediately after the 
game these clothes must be changed again, and the playing 
clothes carefully dried. The wearing of any tight band or 
belt round the waist should be discouraged, as it greatly 
increases the possibility of a " rupture." This should be 
definitely taught the boys, as the popular belief is to the 
contrary. If no tight belts and no corsets were worn the 
number of ruptures would be decreased by more than fifty 
per cent. 

HABITS. 

Habits are formed and deep impressions made very early 
in life. Children are singularly imitative, and school 
impressions are often of lifelong endurance. The teacher 



246 CLOTHING : HABITS : SLEEP, 

should therefore be an example of personal cleanliness and 
neatness, with hair, linen, and finger nails neat and beyond 
reproach. The children should be. directly encouraged to 
be neat and clean, and no capable teacher will submit to 
teach children in a room with dirty floors and dim, closed 
windows. 

Definite direct instruction, preferably distinct and apart 
from the teaching of any scientific details and reasons, 
should be given to all children concerning the care of the 
teeth, cleanliness of the skin, regularity in the action of 
the bowels, sufficient sleep, and the avoidance of such bad 
habits as spitting. 

Parents constantly neglect to teach their children that the 
daily regular action of the bowels is a necessity for health, 
and that absolute regularity can only be ensured by keeping 
to the same hour (best just before or just after breakfast) 
each day. If children were only reared with such habits 
the necessity for aperients would disappear, and many of 
the intestinal disturbances so common among town children 
would disappear. Teachers should instil this thoroughly 
into the minds of the children, and explain that to 
allow refuse to accumulate inside the body, which it does 
if not removed daily, will cause it to putrefy and poison 
the whole system. In fact such a practice should be 
regarded as a mark of personal uncleanliness. Sir Lauder 
Brunton has well said, "As a rule, people are now 
fully alive to the risks they run from poisoning by 
sewer gas, or, to put it more widely, from poisoning by 
products of decomposition outside the body; but perhaps 
we do not all of us keep so clearly before us as we 
ought the fact that inside the body there are all the 
conditions for the formation of putrefactive products, 
and the most favourable arrangement for their rapid 
absorption." 



CLOTHING : HABITS : SLEEP. 247 

One of the most objectionable of the early acquired habits 
is that of spitting. The children should be taught that, 
apart from the filthiness of it, there is considerable risk 
of thereby spreading disease, so that it is to everyone's 
advantage to assist in suppressing the habit. The dual 
lesson of self-control and duty to one's neighbour should 
be taught. It is extremely likely that in the schools we 
have the primary source of infection of a vast number of 
consumptives, and there is no doubt that here there are the 
most promising possibilities of prevention. This dreadful 
disease is discussed elsewhere and other means are men- 
tioned which ought to be employed to cope with the 
scourge, but it is evident that the responsibility rests with 
the school authorities not only to prevent already infected 
children becoming a source of infection to others, but also 
to give all children definite instruction with regard to the 
prevention of the disease. 

Many teachers will find it very interesting to experi- 
ment with some left-hand exercises for the children. The 
formation of the right-hand habit leads to unequal develop- 
ment of nerves and muscles. It is therefore much to be 
desired that children should be encouraged to practise 
exercises of all kinds with the left hand as well as the 
right. Occasional practice in writing with the left hand 
is beneficial. Some people find that a few minutes' writing 
with the left hand will relieve the nervous tension and 
headache set up by overwork and study. 

SLEEP. 

Most town children suffer from an insufficient time for 
sleep. The results upon t?ie organism of the child are 
most disastrous, both physically and mentally. To cut 
down a child's sleep is as cruel as to deprive him of food. 
Pr. Dukes gives the following table : 



248 CLOTHING : HABITS : SLEEP. 

Age. Number of hours. Time. 

Under 6 years 13 6 p.m. to 7 a.m. 

7 12J 6.30 7 

8 12 7 7 

9 , 11J 7.30 7 

10 11 8 7 

13 10i 8.30 7 

15 10 9 . 7 

17 9J 9.30 7 

19 9 10 7 

These amounts should certainly be taken as minima, and 
probably they should be increased so as to give the child 
of thirteen a rest of twelve hours. 

Not only should the amount of sleep be graduated 
according to the age of the child, but also the hours of 
work. In practically all schools the younger children do 
far too much mental work, and get a totally inadequate 
amount of sleep, so that if it were not for the long holidays 
that succeed the terms of work most children would be 
seriously handicapped for life. The vacations save a 
complete breakdown. Dr. Dukes gives the following 
table : 

THE Hours of Work and Sleep adapted to the various ages 
of children. 

A Hours of Hours of 

Work. Sleep. 

From to ... ... 20 
Kursery * \ '" } 

L 6 ... ... I/ 

2 3 10 



CLOTHING: HABITS; SLEEP. 249 

Infant School ( From * to * " 

4 5 ... ... 14 

From 5 to 6 ... 1 ... 13* 

6 7 ... 1J ... 13 

7 8 ... 2 ... 12J 

Primary School \ 8 9 ... 2 ... 12 

9 10 ... 3 ... 11J 

10 12 ... 4 ... 11 

12 ,,14 ... 5 ... 10* 

.From 14 to 16 ... 6 ... 10 

I / "I Q tl (\\_ 

Secondary School I i Q i Q Q o 

and University g-|J - J 

I 21 ,,23 ... 8 ... 8 

Many of the mental breakdowns that are so common 
among young students would not occur if during their 
childhood and boyhood an extra allowance of sleep 
had been given. At the meetings of the British Associa- 
tion at York Dr. Acland exhibited a chart from which it 
seemed that, whereas in some schools small boys get ten 
hours sleep, in other schools boys of the same age get only 
7J hours, and he quoted the testimony of the headmaster 
of a well-known preparatory school to the effect that more 
sleep for the boys had been attended by indubitable success, 
and all that had been done was to change the breakfast 
hour from 7 a.m. to 8 a.m. Then Dr. Acland gave his own 
experience of a boy who came under his notice, and he 
threw upon the screen specimens of the boy's writing when 
he entered the school. Soon, however, a change came over 
the boy's caligraphy. It was more careless and slipshod in 
style, words were written wrongly, and then corrected, and 
in some cases he had actually scored out words that were 



250 CLOTHING: HABITS: SLEEP. 

spelt correctly and had inserted the same spelling over 
again. On Dr. Acland's advice the boy was given more 
rest, and the result was at once seen in clear handwriting, 
which as nearly as possible resembled his "fist" when he 
entered the school. 

Children as a rule require at least as long a period of rest 
as they have of work and play, for most of their growth 
takes place in bed, and therefore to stint them of sleep 
is to hinder their development. A common fallacy is that 
physical exercise acts as a compensation for long hours of 
mental application. Nothing could be more mischievous 
in its results. It is perfectly true that mental fatigue is 
prevented to some extent by intervals of physical recreation, 
but the only true rest to the body and mind is obtained by 
sleep. " There is no ground for supposing," says Dr. 
Acland, "that hard physical exercise is a sufficient com- 
pensation for hard brain work, but on the contrary it 
should be followed by an increased amount of rest." 
Children appear to need more sleep in winter than in 
summer. The most effective part of the night's sleep is 
during the first hours, and in order to get the best results 
it is important that the children should not have any hard 
mental work just before going to bed. 

According to Dr. Clouston there is a decreasing degree 
of staying power manifest during the last thirty years, i.e. 
since the Education Act of 1870, on the part of the brain 
to the extent of about 40 per cent. It is a question for us 
all to consider what share, if any, schools have in this 
terrible fact, with their excessive hours of work in the 
early years of childhood, and the inadequate amount of 
sleep during the same period of life. 



CHAPTER X. 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. MENTAL 
DEVELOPMENT. 

The Nerve Cell. 

The physiological unit of body tissue is the cell, and the 
nerve cell is the unit of the nervous system. Its structure 
is specially suited to the work of bringing distant parts of 
the body into relation with each other, so that excitations 
arising in one part may influence many widely distant 
parts. 

The distinctive feature of the nerve cell is the prolonga- 
tion of its protoplasm into numerous branching, thread- 
like " processes." One such process in each cell is distinct 
in structure, and probably in function, from all the others ; 
it is called the nerve fibre or axis cylinder. At intervals 
the nerve fibre sends out lateral branches, and both fibre 
and branches end in branching " fibrils," i.e. little fibres, of 
extreme delicacy. The nerve fibres of the cells vary in 
length. Some are very short ; others very long, stretching 
in some cases from the brain to the bottom of the spinal 
cord, or from the cord to the ends of the limbs. 

The other processes, called dendrites, radiate from the 
cell in all directions and are marked by an immensity of 
branching ramifications. So frequent and intertwining, 
and so delicately fine is the branching of the dendrites and 

251 



252 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. MENTAL DEVELOPMENT. 



the endings of the nerve fibres that, in the central system, 
/ the cell bodies seem to be 

embedded in a continuous 
fibrous network that knits 
the whole into a compact 
organ, from which issue col- 
lections of fibres, called the 
nerves, going to various parts 
of the body. 

The health and activity of 
the body depend upon the 
health and activity of the 
nerve cells, and vice versa. 
These cells, like all others, 
require nourishment and oxy- 
gen, and excrete waste pro- 
ducts, and they share in the 
general health or ill-health 
of the body. Their vigour 
depends on the amount and 
character of the blood that 
is supplied them. They will 
obviously therefore be bene- 
ficially affected by the good 
food, exercise, fresh air, and 
any other factors which are 

rvK AMIDAL IKOM THE CKKE- ^7 tO P roduC6 a ^igOrOUB 

BRAL CORTEX, STAINED BY THE circulation of healthy and 

\-\ 

normal blood. On the other 




SILVER METHOD. (After Ramon 

Y. cajai.) 



pp, Dendrites ; n, Nerve Fibre ; cc, 
Collateral Branchings of the Nerve 



hand, such factors as poor 
food, foul air, sedentary life, 
etc., are calculated to pro- 
duce bad circulation and 
abnormal blood (anaemia), leading to deterioration of 



Fibre. 

Copied from Wundt : Principles of 
Physiological Psychology. (Sonnen- 






THE NERVOtfS SYSTEM. MENTAL DEVELOPMENT. 253 

the nerve cells and the diminution of mental and physical 
power. 

Before considering the interesting and important matters 







Fig. 106. 



NERVE CELL FROM THE CORTEX OF THE CEREBELLUM, WITH RICHLY BRANCHING 
DEND RITES. (After Kollicker.) 

n, Nerve Fibre ; k, Collateral Branches. 
Copied from Wundt : Principles of Physiological Psychology. (Sonnenschein.) 

concerning mental development and mental deficiencies of 
school children, it is necessary to give a brief description 
of the nervous system. The nervous system includes : 



254 THE NERVOtTS SYSTEM. MENTAL DEVELOPMENT. 

1. The brain and spinal cord, called the central nervous 

system. 

2. The nerves directly connected with the brain and 

spinal cord, called the peripheral nervous system. 

3. Nerves only indirectly connected with the spinal 

cord, but connected with a series of small masses 
found at intervals in the body cavity, in front of 
the spinal column. This is called the sympathetic 
nervous system. 



THE BRAIN. 

The cavity of the skull contains a mass of nervous tissue 
called the brain, a large organ consisting of several parts. 
If it is examined it is found to have on the outside a layer of 
greyish material called " grey matter " which covers material 
of a lighter colour called " white matter." The grey matter 
consists of nerve cells which are formed into groups called 
" centres." These groups of cells are called centres because 
certain places on this grey matter have been proved to be 
associated with special parts, sensations, or acts. In other 
words, the grey matter is believed to be divided up, as it 
were, into pigeon-holes or compartments, each having 
special work to do. Thus special parts of the brain deal 
with sight, hearing, muscular movements of the face, arm, 
leg, etc. 

The brain receives messages from the organs of sense, 
and transforms them into sensations such as sight, sound, 
or touch. Thus the eye can do no more than send mes- 
sages to the brain. If these messages reach that part of 
the brain dealing with sight, and if that part of the brain 
is properly developed, is healthy, and is educated to inter- 
pret these messages, then, and only then, does the indi- 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. MENTAL DEVELOPMENT. 255 

vidual see. It is the same with the ears and the other 
organs of sense. The full possession of any one of the 
senses therefore is only possible when the three essential 
parts and their connections are perfect. These are (1) 
the sense organ, such as the eye, (2) the connection of this 
organ with the brain, i.e. the sensory nerve, and (3) the 




Cl 



M 



Fig. 107. 

DIAGRAM OF THE GENERAL DIVISIONS 

OF THE BRAIN (left side). 

C, cerebrum ; AL, anterior lobe ; 
ML, middle lobe; PL, posterior 
lobe; P, Pons; M, medulla; Cl, 
cerebellum. 



Fig. 108. 



DIAGRAM OF BRAIN SHOWING CONVOLU- 
TIONS AND FISSURES OF EXTERNAL SUR- 
FACE OF LEFT SIDE OF BRAIN. 

The line from C leads to the place near 
which most of the motor areas of the 
brain are situated. 



centre of the brain, whose special function it is to deal with 
and properly interpret these messages. Of such sensory 
centres the positions of those concerned with smell, taste, 
hearing, sight, and ordinary sensation are known. 

The brain also contains centres, called motor centres, 
concerned with movements. The positions of the centres 



256 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. MENTAL DEVELOPMENT. 

concerned with movements of the face, tongue, lips, arms, 
legs, trunk, and head are known. Such centres are double, 
one on each side of the brain, and, curiously enough, centres 
on the right side of the brain govern movements on the left 
side of the body, and vice versa, Thus, in an ordinary 
right-handed individual, the arm centre on the left side 
of the brain would be more frequently used, and would 
become more highly developed than the corresponding 
centre on the right side. Such an act as writing would 
therefore have its centre on the left side of the brain. 

Other functions of the brain include the process of 
thought and the phenomenon of memory. 

THE SPINAL CORD. 

The spinal cord occupies the cavity in the spinal column, 
and is continuous with the brain above. If it is cut across 
it is seen to be composed of the same two kinds of tissue 
as the brain, but the white matter here is arranged outside 
the grey. The white matter forms the paths of communi- 
cation with the brain, while the cells of the grey matter 
can act as " centres" for what are called " reflex actions." 

THE NERVES, 

Connected with the brain there are twelve pairs of 
nerves, and from the spinal cord there pass thirty-one 
pairs. Nerves carry impulses either to the central nervous 
system or from it. If a nerve brings impulses from the 
skin or from the organs of special sense, such as the eye 
or the ear, to the brain or spinal cord it is called a sensory 
nerve. Those which convey impulses from the central 
nervous system to the muscles are called motor nerves. If 
a nerve contains both sensory fibres and motor fibres it is 
called a mixed nerve. All the spinal nerves are mixed. 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. MENTAL DEVELOPMENT. 257 

REFLEX ACTS. 

If the foot of a sleeping person is tickled it is jerked 
away. If the soles of the feet of a man whose spinal cord 
is injured anywhere above the sacral region be tickled, it 
often happens that his legs will be suddenly drawn up, 
although he can neither feel the tickling nor is able, of his 
own will, to draw up his legs. The explanation is that the 
sensation is conveyed from the foot along sensory nerve 
fibres to the spinal cord, the grey matter of which con- 
stitutes a " centre " for receiving such messages. These 
impulses so act upon the grey matter of the cord that they 
cause new impulses, motor impulses, to travel along the 
motor nerve fibres to the muscles of the leg and foot, with 
the result that the foot is jerked away. These movements 
are produced without the action of the will or brain, and 
take place perfectly when all connection with the brain has 
been destroyed. As long as there are the proper con- 
nections between the brain and the spinal cord, the brain 
exercises a controlling effect in limiting the violence of the 
movements caused by reflex acts. This is called inhibition. 
Also, when conscious, the will, or volition, comes into play, 
and the brain can limit or prevent the motor impulses 
being sent in response to a sensory stimulus. Thus, by an 
effort of the will, it is possible to prevent the foot being 
jerked away when the sole is tickled. 

For a purely reflex act there are therefore three necessary 
parts : (1) a sensory nerve, (2) a nerve centre, and (3) a 
motor nerve. Many of the ordinary acts and movements 
of human beings are reflex acts. Some of them are 
involuntary or automatic, and take place with or without 
the will. Some acts that originally required considerable 
effort and a good deal of will control become more or less 
automatic afterwards. Thus we can go on walking 

PHY. HYG. 17 



258 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. MENTAL DEVELOPMENT. 

without thinking about it. Among the purely automatic 
centres which require no stimulus from the outside are 
those concerned with circulation and respiration. These 
acts are continually performed during life, but the rate at 
which the work is done is constantly varied in response to 
impulse. 

The start that one gives in response to a sudden noise ; 
the jerking away of the hand if it touches a hot body ; 
the closing of the eyes in response to a sudden flash of 
light ; these are common reflex acts. 



SYMPATHETIC NERVOUS SYSTEM. 

Lying on each side of the front of the vertebral column 
is a row of small beads or ganglia connected together by a 
greyish-coloured cord. This is called the sympathetic chain, 
and extends from the 'base of the skull to the bottom of 
the spine. The ganglia are connected by fibres with the 
spinal nerves, and therefore with the spinal cord, and 
immense numbers of nerve fibres pass from the sympathetic 
chain to the various internal organs, such as the heart, 
lungs, stomach, intestines, and also to the walls of the 
blood vessels all over the body. These sympathetic nerves 
chiefly carry impulses which govern the muscular tissue of 
the internal organs and the muscular coat of the blood 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM OF THE INFANT. 

The automatic centres, such as those concerned with 
circulation and respiration, are well formed in the infant at 
birth. Other centres that need no control from the brain 
are also in working order, such as the centre for sucking 
a reflex act set going when the mucous membrane of 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. MENTAL DEVELOPMENT. 259 

the mouth encounters any foreign body. Other centres 
rapidly develop and acquire power and control, and the 
child reacts more readily to external stimuli, obviously 
noticing differences and alterations in its surroundings. 
Then the child begins to be able to possess muscular con- 
trol, and coordinates its muscles in order to produce the 
coarser movements by an effort of will. The power for 
finer movements is acquired later on, and is part of the 
education of the brain. 

Similarly the receptive centres have to be educated. 
Very early in life it is probable that neither light nor sound 
affects the child in any way. Afterwards a child will 
obviously notice a bright light or a sharp sound, but it is 
still unaffected by gradations of light or sound. Then 
light and shade become recognised, sight and touch teach 
each other, and gradations of light and shade are asso- 
ciated with special forms and shapes. Objects that are 
continually seen are sending the same impressions time 
after time, until at last these impressions become familiar 
and are remembered. The child is then able to recognise 
familiar faces and things. In a similar manner the centre 
for hearing is educated until it can differentiate and analyse 
sounds. Then the impressions produced by continually 
recurring sounds are stored up and are remembered. 

So far we have traced the development of centres 
separately, as if each developed alone and independently 
of the others. This is not the case. As each centre 
develops so do its connections with other centres begin 
to be brought into being. Thus sounds begin to be 
associated with the pictures of certain objects that pro- 
duce the sounds. Then an object begins to be coupled 
in the mind with sounds that are continually repeated 
while the attention is being called to the object, and 
the child eventually associates certain sounds with objects 



260 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. MENTAL DEVELOPMENT. 

that are familiar. At this stage the repetition of a 
certain sound will call up in the child's mind the picture 
of the object connected with it, and the child learns to 
associate words with objects and ideas. 



SPECIAL CENTRES. 

From an educational point of view some centres are of 
special importance. These are the centres concerned with 
speech, of which there are four, viz. : 

1. The auditory word centre. 

2. The motor speech centre. 

3. The visual word centre. 

4. The writing centre. 

The first and third are sensory centres, i.e. they deal 
with impulses received, while the second and fourth are 
motor centres, and have control of speech and the act of 
writing. 

These special centres are not on both sides of the brain, 
but on the left only. The auditory word centre, which 
develops as the child is showing signs of being able to 
distinguish special words and appreciate their meaning, 
is part of the hearing centre on the left side of the brain. 
Similarly the left visual word centre is part of the left 
centre for sight, and deals with the impulses caused by the 
images of written words. This centre is often developed 
entirely at school while the child is being taught to read 
words. From the above it will be understood that the left 
centres for sight and hearing each develop a special -extra 
centre to deal particularly with words written and spoken. 
Similarly the left centre which controls the movements of 
the lips and tongue develops a special centre for dealing 
with speech (the motor speech centre), and the centre 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. MENTAL DEVELOPMENT. 261 

controlling the movements of the right arm develops an 
additional one to control the particular act of writing. 

All these centres have fibres connecting each with the 
others, i.e. the two sensory centres are connected together 
and also with the two motor centres, and vice versa. By 
means of such connections we can immediately speak or 
write a word that we hear or see. 



DEVELOPMENT OF SPECIAL CENTRES. 

An infant learns, as we have already pointed out, to 
associate words with ideas, a process which is brought 
about by the development of the auditory word centre. 
This is followed by the development of the motor word, or 
speech, centre. Connections are then formed between the 
auditory word centre and the one for speech, and the child 
now attempts to imitate sounds that it hears, and educates 
its centre for speech by means of its auditory centre. Its 
first attempts are naturally wide of the mark, because not 
only are the muscles concerned with speech not properly 
under control, but also the child's hearing is not very 
acute, and it is unable to distinguish small differences 
between its own efforts and the sounds that it hears. 

The connections of the centre for sight with the auditory 
word and the speech centre are also being developed, and 
the child now becomes capable of complicated mental pro- 
cesses. Thus an object is -seen, the sound (or name) 
associated with it is remembered, and the motor speech 
centre reproduces the remembered sound more or less 
accurately, i.e. the child can give the name to an object 
that is in view. This is a tremendous advance upon any 
previous mental process. Similarly a name is heard, the 
visual centre reproduces the mental picture associated with 



262 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. MENTAL DEVELOPMENT. 

the word, and the child is able to pick out the object 
bearing the name. 

Associated with the development of these connections 
between centres is the increase in the capacity of each 
centre for storing up impressions, and so memory develops. 

In this stage of mental development the ordinary child 
reaches the teacher. At school the above centres should 
continue their growth, and their connections with each 
other should be gradually improved and strengthened. 
Two new centres, the writing centre and the visual word 
centre, have to be developed entirely at school, and these 
in their turn have to establish connections with each other 
and with other centres before they can attain their full 
usefulness and play their proper part in the education of 
the child. 

A proper appreciation of the above phenomena of de- 
velopment should be considered indispensable to all teachers 
and all people who profess to be interested in education. 
If this were so it would not be necessary for medical officers 
to have to spend so much time in trying to persuade 
teachers and well-meaning " experts in education " that 
it is quite hopeless to try to teach a child to read or write 
when there is no available visual word-centre ; or to write 
when there is no working centre for writing ; or to speak 
when there is no available speech centre, although such 
children may, in all other respects, possess good faculties. 



DEFECTIVE CHILDEEN. 

Great lack of development of the various centres and 
connections that are used in education gives rise to idiot 
and imbecile children. Such children rarely reach school 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. MENTAL DEVELOPMENT. 263 

at all, as they are obviously incapable of being educated by 
the ordinary school methods. But there are children who, 
while suffering from lack of development of some centre or 
centres, are not obviously abnormal before their education 
is attempted. It is convenient to describe the lower type 
of such children as "feeble-minded," and the higher type 
as " defective." Such children reach the schools in large 
numbers, but gain little or no advantage from the ordinary 
school teaching usually remaining year after year in the 
lower standard* jf the school, learning little or nothing, 
and eventually Deceiving no attention at all. The ordinary- 
school methods are wasted upon such children^ and they 
need practically individual instruction. Specially treated 
they often make considerable improvement, and in many 
cases become sufficiently normal, after a time, to go back 
to the ordinary schools. It is obvious that so long as 
defective children are being educated together with normal 
children they are subjected to severe strain and hopeless 
competition which can only result in making the defect 
worse. Such children placed among those of similar 
mental calibre occasionally show a wonderful improvement 
in quite a short time. 

In 1895 a report was issued by the Committee, Parkes 
Museum, upon the result of examining a large number of 
children. About 100,000 children were reviewed, 9,777 
showed certain developmental defects (abnormalities of 
skull, ears, eyelids, palate, nasal bones), abnormal nerve 
signs in 10,355 cases, and 7,391 were mentally dull. The 
"exceptional" children included 2 idiots, 51 imbeciles, 
275 children feebly gifted mentally, 19 mentally exceptional, 
110 epileptics, and 5 deaf mutes. About 1'26 per cent, 
of the total number of children were found to require 
special instruction, while 7 per cent, of the total number 
were mentally dull. 



264 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. MENTAL DEVELOPMENT. 



VARIETIES OF DEFECTIVES. 

There are many varieties of defective children. If one 
or more of the special centres, i.e. the auditory word, motor 
speech, visual word, and writing centres, are affected, or if 
the communications between them have failed to become 
established, certain typical and easily understood results 
will follow. Thus if the auditory word centre is affected 
the condition known as " word deafness " results, and the 
child is unable to understand or remember what it is told. 
Such children do not recognise their own name when called, 
and are occasionally supposed to be deaf, or imbecile, which 
they are not. Instruction at a deaf school often does no 
good at all. Instruction by articulating and writing must 
be attempted, and is usually attended with excellent results. 
Many of these children are not mentally abnormal in any 
other direction. 

If the connection between the auditory word centre and 
the writing centre has failed to develop the child is unable 
to write to dictation, while an affection of the writing 
centre itself will prevent writing altogether. 

Affections of the visual word centre cause " word blind- 
ness," the child being unable to remember or recognise 
letters or words. These children can write from transcrip- 
tion, but not to dictation. They can draw and can 
recognise pictures, and can often do ordinary arithmetic, 
but it is quite hopeless to attempt to teach a word-blind 
child to read or write. They cannot read a word, and they 
write rubbish. Other imperfections in the visual centre 
result in inability to perceive colour, and to acquire notions 
of form, size, extent, distance, and relief. 

In the same way any imperfection in the motor speech 
centre will affect the child's speech. 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. MENTAL DEVELOPMENT. -265 

DETECTION. 

The proper detection and classification of mentally 
defective children can only be done by medical men 
experienced in school inspection, and the necessity for 
the early recognition of such cases constitutes one of the 
many reasons why systematic medical inspection and 
supervision of all school children should be enforced. If 
the child is to be rescued from a life of utter uselessness 
and dependence it is of vital importance that the condition 
should be recognised early in childhood. It is then possible, 
by special methods of teaching, to bring about wonderful 
improvement in some of these children by slowly and care- 
fully encouraging the development of the defective centres 
and their connections. Nevertheless it should be remem- 
bered that many children are backward and appear dull 
simply because the sight or hearing is defective, or because 
they have adenoid growths. When these physical defects 
are remedied the mental condition is found to become more 
nearly normal. Adenoid children in particular are liable 
to be looked upon as defective. They are often very dull 
and many cases have been found where it has been im- 
possible to teach them even the simplest matters. 

Although the actual diagnosis and classification of these 
mental conditions is essentially a matter for medical men, 
yet a good deal of the preliminary inspection, with a view 
to detecting abnormal conditions, may be carried out by a 
specially trained teacher. Simple tests, such as those 
known as Dr. Warner's methods, are as follows : 

1. The children are asked to hold out their hands in 
front of them. It is then easy to notice the balance of the 
hands, arms, spine, and shoulders, any peculiarities being 
noted. 



266 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. MENTAL DEVELOPMENT. 

2. By placing one's hand on the child's head the size, 
form, bosses, etc., can be noted. Then measurements of 
the head may be taken. 

3. Another test is to hold in front of the child some 
small bright object which is held in the observer's hand. 
By telling the child to keep his eyes fixed on this, and by 
moving it to and fro, it is possible to obtain some idea as 
to the coordination of the eye muscles and the muscles of 
the face and neck, as well as a good view of the features 
and expression. 

4. The shape of the hard palate is another important 
observation. 

Special notes should always be made regarding the form 
and size of the head, general nutrition, abnormalities of 
feature, open mouth, nervous movements of the face, fore- 
head or fingers, etc. 

A good rule to bear in mind is that, in the majority of 
cases of marked deviation from the normal in formation or 
in development, or in the nervous system, such defects are 
accompanied by mental irregularity. As a result there 
should always be carefully noted the following con- 
ditions : 

Hare lip. Open mouth. 

Cleft or high palate. Dull vacant expression. 

Irregular and decayed teeth. Twitchings and tremors. 

Deficient ear lobes. Signs of feeble circulation. 

Abnormally placed earlobes. Peculiarities of skull. 

Indented nose. Defective powers of attention. 

Blue lips. Irritability. 
Peculiarities of skin. 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. MENTAL DEVELOPMENT. 267 

SCHOOLS FOR DEFECTIVE CHILDREN. 

By the Elementary Education (Defective and Epileptic 
Children) Act 1899, the local education authority is 
empowered to provide special schools for these children. 
The Act is permissive only, but it enables school 
authorities to obtain grants towards the education of 
defective and epileptic children. In order to gain 
admission to such schools the children must be certified 
by the Education Medical Officer to be incapable, by 
reason of some mental or physical defect, of deriving 
benefit from the ordinary methods of teaching. It is 
not sufficient for the child to be merely backward or 
dull, nor are imbeciles to be admitted. The greatest 
care is necessary if any real good is hoped for. To fill 
such schools with obviously feeble-minded children is to 
waste public money and to effect very little improvement. 
The promising cases for such treatment are children with 
one or more defective centres, which by careful teaching 
may develop to almost a normal degree. 

It is not advisable to admit children under seven years old 
to the special schools, because good infant school teaching 
is often very beneficial to such cases. They may be retained 
in the special school until the age of sixteen, unless they 
develop sufficiently to return to the ordinary schools before 
reaching that age. The instruction at the schools should be 
given by teachers who have special aptitude for the work, 
and for successful results it is necessary to give individual 
attention and instruction, so that only small classes are 
possible. All the work should be under constant medical 
supervision. 

Great attention should be paid to articulation, and 
excellent results are obtainable even in bad cases. Speech 
of as normal a kind as possible is of the highest importance 



268 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. MENTAL DEVELOPMENT. 

to such cases. Manual instruction is of special impor- 
tance to them, the teaching being of the kindergarten 
type for younger scholars, and technical instruction for the 
older ones. Physical exercise also demands extra time and 
attention,, breathing exercises and eye movements being 
particularly useful. Judicious open-air exercise should be 
encouraged in every possible way, and all special physical 
defects should be duly considered in the plan of exercise 
for each scholar. It is of vital importance to remember 
that the best results are obtained by finding out what 
powers these children already have, and educating them on 
these lines. A great deal of valuable time is often wasted 
in attempting impossibilities in the way of reading, writing, 
and spelling. In Copenhagen various grades of defectives 
are received either in day classes or in residential institu- 
tions. For the teachable cases there is usually one teacher 
for eight or ten scholars. The older boys learn farming, 
brush, broom, and basket making ; the older girls being 
taught dairy and laundry work, or some form of weaving. 
Special schools should be situated in as good a position 
as possible, on a gravelly soil, and with a good elevation. 
The diet of the children should be plain, but liberal. Milk, 
oatmeal porridge, cocoa, bread, eggs, vegetables, fruit, and 
a little meat (except in epileptic cases) should be the main 
articles of diet. Warm clothing is indispensable, and 
special attention to the hands and feet is necessary. 

Parents' Position. 

Parents very often offer objection to the attendance of 
their children at special schools, and under the Act the 
parent has the right to request the school authorities to 
examine from time to time (intervals not less than 
six months) any child attending such schools, in order to 
ascertain whether the child has improved sufficiently to be 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. MENTAL DEVELOPMENT. 269 

fit to attend the ordinary schools again. As a matter of 
fact every authority should arrange for all such children 
to be examined at far shorter intervals than six months. 
Medical examination is desirable at least every three months. 
Improved cases are sent back to the ordinary schools and 
degenerating cases are excluded as imbeciles. It is 
desirable that some special method of dealing with these 
degenerated cases should be devised. 

EPILEPTIC CHILDREN. 

It is estimated that 1 per 1,000 children is epileptic, and 
that one- sixth of these are severely afflicted. If the 
attacks are rare, and not violent, there is no reason why 
such children should not attend ordinary schools, provided 
that the intelligence is normal. Unfortunately the disease 
often causes rapid deterioration of intelligence, so that 
special teaching is frequently necessary. Severe cases 
should be treated in residential homes, and should receive 
constant medical attention. It is desirable that each house 
of residence should be of one storey only, and should 
contain not more than 20'cases. 

CAUSES OF MENTAL DEFICIENCY. 

Among the causes of mental deficiency in children one 
of the most important is undoubtedly heredity. A family 
history of mental weakness is traceable in about 21 per 
cent, of the cases, while the taint of consumptive tendency 
is found in nearly 30 per cent. Alcohol probably plays 
the greatest part of all, parental intemperance being found 
in about 24 per cent., and a much larger number probably 
suffering as the result of the effects of alcohol upon the 
offspring even when taken in moderation. The common 
habit of women, during the period of pregnancy, to partake 



270 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. MENTAL DEVELOPMENT. 

somewhat freely of such alcoholic liquids as stout, etc., 
undoubtedly tends to cause deterioration of nerve tissue 
in the child. 

Circumstances, surroundings, parental neglect, deficient 
and injudicious food, all play important parts in the pro- 
duction of the stunted, dull, and mentally feeble child 
a fairly common type in town schools. Occasionally the 
condition is the result of injury, particularly injury at 
birth, while in others it is said to be caused by a fright 
or shock. Convulsions or epilepsy are well known fore- 
runners of mental deficiency, and occasionally it follows as 
a result of a severe attack of scarlet fever, measles, or 
whooping cough. 

It is diflicult to give a satisfactory classification of the 
various causes and conditions associated with mental 
deficiency. A common method is to divide them into the 
congenital and the non-congenital. 

CONGENITAL CONDITIONS. 

1. Microcephalus, or the congenitally small head. In its 
extreme form it is characteristic of a low type of idiocy. 
Such heads are not only small in circumference (17 inches 
or less), but also have a characteristically narrowed and 
rapidly receding forehead. Above this type there are all 
grades of deficiency up to the ordinary mentally defective 
child. Between 18 and 19 inches in circumference is a 
common measurement in imbeciles. Nineteen or 20 inches 
is a common measurement in the feeble-minded. 

2. Hydrocephalus or Macrocephalus, or the abnormally 
large head (sometimes of non-congenital origin). Associated 
with this condition are varying degrees of intelligence, from 
a low form of mental defectiveness up to an unusually high 
degree of intelligence. 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. MENTAL DEVELOPMENT. 271 

3. Tubercle. Tubercle plays a very decided and impor- 
tant part in the causation of mental deficiency. Some 
hereditary taint of tuberculosis is commonly found, while 
in other cases there is actual personal infection, such as 
tuberculosis of joints, glands, or serous membranes. 

4. Cretinism (absence or atrophy of the thyroid gland). 
This is another congenital taint or condition associated 
with mental defects. Some cases are normal at birth, but 
gradually develop the characteristic signs, viz. : Coarse, 
dry, thin hair ; low and narrow forehead ; swollen eyelids, 
hands, and feet; full and flabby cheeks; large mouth; 
large and distended abdomen. Cretins remain almost 
stationary as far as physical and mental development are 
concerned, so that adult age is reached while the appearance 
and mental powers are those of an infant. 

5. Neurotic conditions. Many of these are hereditary, 
and the mental deficiency dates from birth. Alcoholism 
in either or both parents is a common cause of these 
conditions. 



NON-CONGENITAL CONDITIONS. 

These are subdivided into the developmental and the 
accidental or acquired. 

Developmental. 

This term is applied to cases where actual mental 
deficiency supervenes upon a brain originally imperfect in 
development, although not noticeably so. These forms of 
mental weakness become evident at some crisis of develop- 
ment, such as dentition or puberty. 

1. Convulsions. A history of convulsions during in- 
fancy, especially during dentition, is common in cases of 
mental weakness. 



272 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. MENTAL DEVELOPMENT. 

2. Persistent epilepsy. A gradual deterioration in 
mental power usually accompanies persistent epilepsy. 

Accidental or Acquired. 

1. Injury. Inflammation of the brain or its membranes 
may be set up by injury. 

2. Shock. All kinds of events, such as the bite of a dog, 
likely to give a sudden fright or shock, have been said 
to commence the history of mental weakness in many 



3. Poisons. The administration of poisons, such as 
alcohol or opium, to children always produces deterioration 
of the mental powers. 



CHAPTEE XI. 



EAR, THROAT, VOICE, SMELL, TOUCH. 

The ear is divided into three parts, the external, middle, 
and internal ear. The external ear is that structure which 
is usually described as " the " ear. It serves as a means 
of collecting waves of sound. An open tube, called the 
auditory canal, leads inwards from it. The canal is about 
an inch long, and is set near its mouth with fine hairs, 
while within, embedded in the walls, lie some small glands, 
which secrete wax. The hairs help to prevent the entrance 
of insects. The wax serves to entangle bacteria and insects 
that have gained admission. If the wax collects in too 
great quantity it will block the passage and cause deafness. 
This can easily be removed by syringing with hot water. 

The external auditory canal ends at the tympanum or 
ear-drum. This is a membrane, like the top of a drum, 
and vibrates to the sound waves that reach it. On the 
other side of the drum is a small cavity called the middle 
ear. This contains three small bones, whose functions are 
to pass on the vibrations of the drum, and the remainder 
of the cavity is filled with air. From the floor of the 
middle ear there passes downwards a tube (the Eustachian 
tube) which opens into the pharynx. The walls of the 
middle ear, and the blood in the capillaries there, absorb 
the air, and would cause a decrease in pressure in that 
cavity if the Eustachian tube did not admit air, and so 
equalises the pressure on both sides. If the tube gets 
blocked, by a severe cold, or by the pressure of adenoid 
PHY. HYO. 273 18 



274 EAE, THROAT, VOICE, SMELL, TOUCH. 

growths, for instance, this absorption takes place, the pres- 
sure in the middle ear falls, the tympanic membrane becomes 
tense and is unable to vibrate, and deafness results. 

The internal ear has a complicated structure which it is 
not necessary to consider here. 

Deafness. 

The deafness of a child may be due to some compara- 
tively simple cause, such as an accumulation of wax in 
the external auditory canal, or adenoids blocking up the 
Eustachian tube ; but on the other hand it may be due to 

CHAIN OF OSSICLES 

/-^ \ MIDDLE EAR 

AURICLE, /^\ X -J-~ JSEMIC.ROULAR CANALS 

^AUDITORY NERVE. 

COCHLEA 

DRUM- EUSTACHIAN TUBE 

MEMBRANE 

TEMPORAL BONE (CUT THROUGH) 
Fig. 109. 

more serious and complicated defects, such as diseases 
of the middle or inner ear, interference with the audi- 
tory nerve, or defective development of, or damage to, the 
hearing centre situated in the brain. All cases of deafness 
should be selected by the teacher and presented for medical 
examination when opportunity occurs. At the very lowest 
estimate such a defect will cause part of the instruction 
given to the child to be wasted. Hearing is sometimes 
apparently deficient when the real deficiency is that of 
attention. Mentally feeble children often hear perfectly 
well, but will not take the trouble to listen and to dis- 
tinguish sounds. Patience and the presentation of pleasant 




EAR, THROAT, VOICE, SMELL, TOUCH. 275 

musical sounds will often work wonders in developing 
this important sense. 

Earache and Ear Discharge. 

These are unfortunately of frequent occurrence hi school 
children. At least one per cent, of the children have dis- 
charging ears. Earache should always receive attention, 
because it is the first signal that some mischief is being 
done. In many cases it is due to inflammation in the middle 
ear. This part of the ear is liable to bacterial invasion 
along the Eustachian tube. If the inflammation is severe 
it may lead to the formation of matter or pus in the 
middle ear. Then the drum is perforated, and the pus 
trickles down the external auditory canal as "ear dis- 
charge." It is of the utmost importance that such a 
discharge should be medically treated and cured at once. 
A child with an ear discharge should be likened to a person 
living on the edge of a precipice: it may continue for 
years, but disaster may occur at any moment. If treated 
at once the discharge will stop, and the hole in the drum 
will probably heal up, and the loss of hearing will only be 
very slight. If it is neglected it will become chronic and 
the ear may be permanently damaged. If it is treated 
afterwards it is very difficult to cure, and the hole in the 
drum will not heal up, so that some loss of hearing is 
inevitable. Moreover the trouble may cause death at 
practically any time. There is only a thin plate of bone 
.separating the middle ear from the brain, and this may be 
attacked and perforated by the inflammatory process. The 
next step would be the formation of an abscess in the 
brain, and death may be rapidly brought about. 

In the case of children who have recently been away 
from school on account of an attack of scarlet fever or 
diphtheria, a discharge from the ears may be of a highly 



276 EAR, THROAT, VOICE, SMELL, TOUCH. 

infectious character, and may cause a school epidemic. 
In such cases the child should be sent home at once, and 
the matter reported. The discharge in other cases may 
not be capable of setting up any definite disease in the 
other children, but if some of the matter finds its way into 
the eyes, ears, throats, or noses of other children, it may 
cause a great deal of injury. At all events it is desirable 
that all children suffering from ear discharge should be 
excluded from school. 



TESTS OF HEARING. 

Statistics are available to show that about twenty per 
cent, of school children possess some defect of Hearing, 
either in one or in both ears. It is impossible to estimate 
the real meaning of apparent dulness or inattention until 
the hearing has been tested. 

The test may be made in one of two ways, either by -a 
watch or by the voice. For the older scholars the watch 
method gives good results, but for younger children the 
voice test is more reliable. 

The same watch should be used for all the children. It 
is first of all tested with some good ears, and its correct 
ticking distance ascertained. Members of the staff may 
test each other for this purpose. Watches vary in the loud- 
ness of the tick, but the average one can be heard by the 
normal ear through a distance of about 4 feet. A very loud 
one may be heard 10 feet. A stop-watch is to be preferred, 
because the ticking is then under control. The quietest 
room in the school should be selected for the test. The 
child should be seated, and a tape measure is stretched 
horizontally backwards from the back of his head. The 
child's eyes should be closed. The person who is making 
the test brings up the watch (which we will suppose to 



EAR, THROAT, VOICE, SMELL, TOUCH. 277 

have a 48-inch tick) from a distance to the 48th mark on 
the tape. If the child can hear the ticking at this distance 
it has normal hearing, and is passed on. If the ticking 
cannot be heard the watch is moved inch by inch nearer 
until the ticking becomes audible. The tape must touch 
neither the child's head nor the watch, because it will 
convey the sound better than the air. The tape is provided 
simply as a convenience for reading off the distances and 
for providing a level. In order to get reliable results it is 
necessary to repeat the tests several times. If a louder 
watch is used a chalk line on the floor, with divisions, 
representing half a foot each, will be sufficiently exact for 
recording distances. 

For testing by the voice the ordinary speaking voice is 
not sufficiently exact to give good_results. For instance, it 
would be difficult to be quite sure that one is giving exactly 
the same test in six months' time as one is to-day, i.e. to 
be sure of the exact pitch and tone, etc. But if a forced 
whisper is used the test is much more exact. By a forced 
whisper is meant a loud whisper with a forced expiration 
helping it. This is fairly constant in the same person, and 
can be heard a considerable distance (varying from 30 to 
60 feet about). One person must test the whole school, 
and the hearing distance of his forced whisper is first 
ascertained by testing good ears. Suppose it is found to 
be 60 feet. The test should be made in a quiet playground 
or room. A line 60 feet long, marked in feet, is chalked or 
painted on the floor : the child stands at one end with the 
back to the observer; the one performing the test stands 
at the other end, and an assistant stands by the child. 
The observer whispers various words (single syllable 
numbers are the best), and the child tells the assistant 
what he has heard. If the child cannot hear at all at this 
distance, or makes a mistake, the observer moves foot by 



278 EAR, THKOAT, VOICE, SMELL, TOUCH. 

foot nearer and repeats the test. Finally, the distance at 
which the child can hear this sound is ascertained and 
recorded. The advantage of this method is that it is inde- 
pendent of the child's possible misinterpretation of the 
sound. In the watch method mistakes are constantly made 
by the child saying it can hear the ticking when it really 
does not. All children showing a deficiency of hearing 
should be presented for medical examination. 

Deaf and Dumb Children. 

Children born deaf are also dumb, because they do not 
hear words spoken, and so do not learn to speak. By 
training a dumb' child to watch carefully the shape and 
movements of the teacher's mouth when the latter is naming 
an object, he may learn to imitate these and so come to speak. 
If a child becomes deaf before he is six years old, he tends 
to forget the language he has learned and is in danger of 
becoming dumb. 

THE THKOAT. AFFECTIONS OF THE THKOAT. 

On examining a child's mouth there can be seen the 
tongue, teeth, and gums in front, the hard palate above, 
and at the back the soft palate spanning over the root of 
the tongue like a fleshy arch, and dipping down at its 
highest point in a little process called the uvula. On each 
side of the arch are the pillars of the throat, enclosing the 
tonsils. The tonsils are variable in size, and it is not at 
all uncommon to find about 30 per cent, of the children in 
a school with tonsils which practically meet in the middle 
line. Such schools are often situated in country places, 
but usually where the housing conditions are poor. 

The opening at the back of the mouth leads into a funnel- 
shaped cavity called the pharynx. The openings of the 



BAB, THROAT, VOICE, SMELL, TOUCH. 279 

nose lead into the same cavity, but the part of it at the 
back of the nose is sometimes called the naso-pharynx. 
These cavities are lined with a smooth covering called 
mucous membrane. When healthy this membrane is 
smooth and shining, and a bright pink in colour. In this 
condition it can resist the attacks of disease germs, but 
when it is unhealthy, as shown by it becoming rough and 
red, or rough and abnormally pale, it offers an excellent 
breeding place for bacteria. The membrane is rapidly 
affected by impure air, and if the child continually breathes 
vitiated air the lining of the nose and throat are certain 
to be injured. Liability to take cold in the head is one of 
the early indications of an abnormal condition of these 
parts. 

ADENOIDS. 

From an educational point of view the most important 
condition for diagnosis in this region is the presence of 
adenoid growths. These are very common in children 
under 14 years. After that age they tend to dry up and 
disappear, but the injuries that they have caused are 
permanent. They are fleshy growths produced by hyper- 
trophy of the adenoid tissue which is so abundant in this 
neighbourhood, and are usually situated in the naso- 
pharynx, quite out of sight. To the finger thrust behind 
the palate they feel soft, pulpy, and velvety, " like a bag 
of earthworms." All classes of the community appear to 
be equally affected, and they are found about equally 
in the better class and the poorer schools. Heredity un- 
doubtedly plays some part in their appearance, and there 
is no doubt whatever that the number of the children 
affected by this condition is rapidly increasing in the 
schools, 



280 EAR, THROAT, VOICE, SMELL, TOTJCH. 

Effects of Adenoids. 

The effects of these growths, by which means they can 
usually be easily identified, are numerous, and are of great 
importance. The obstruction to the natural breathing 
process is accompanied with and followed by dulness, 
stupidity, peculiarities of appearance, expression, and 
speech, as well as characteristic deformities. These are 
fully discussed in Chapter V. of Part III. 

SORE THROATS. 

A sore throat is the common beginning of an attack of 
scarlet fever, measles, or diphtheria, as well as acute 
inflammation in that region, and quinsy. Of course it is 
quite possible that any sore throat may be a simple local 
inflammation that will rapidly subside, but that does not 
affect the rule that no child with a sore throat should be 
admitted to school under any circumstances. It should be 
remembered that it is quite impossible to distinguish a 
simple sore throat from a mild attack of diphtheria except 
by bacteriological methods, and the epidemics of mild sore 
throat that are quite common among school children are 
often mild diphtheria. The infection will be handed from 
one to another, keeping its mild characteristics for a time, 
but occasionally developing an extreme virulence and 
causing a number of deaths in rapid succession. An 
instructive case has just occurred in the writer's district. 
A boy attending school contracted a sore throat. Soon 
afterwards his mother and the servant also had mild sore 
throats. A week later the father was very ill with inflamed 
throat, and the doctor who was summoned pronounced this 
case to be typical severe diphtheria. The throats of the 
boy, the mother, and the servant were then examined 
bacteriologically, and were found to be swarming with 



EAR, THROAT, VOICE, SMELL, TOUCH. 



281 



diphtheria bacilli, although they had apparently quite 
recovered from the attack of " sore throat." 

A morbid and enlarged condition of the tonsils always 
offers a resting-place to bacteria. The germs of consump- 
tion, or tubercle bacilli, often gain their first foothold 
in the body either through the tonsils or bad teeth. The 
bacilli next invade the glands in the neighbourhood of the 
jaw and throat, and give rise to a great amount of 
suffering and disease. 

THE VOICE. 

At the bottom of the funnel-shaped pharynx the wind- 
pipe and the gullet pass respectively to the lungs and the 



/Yasa/ passage 



Ph a r/ n ) 



Oesophagus. . 




- - La r/ n x 



Fig. 110. 
THK PHARYNX, 



stomach. The windpipe is placed in front of the gullet. 
At the top part of the windpipe lies the larynx or voice-box. 



282 



BAR, THROAT, VOICE, SMELL, TOUCH. 



The opening into the larynx lies at the root of the 
tongue ; this is known as the glottis, and over it there 
projects a valve-like flap, the epiglottis. The larynx 
consists of cartilages, various muscles, and ligaments. 
The cartilages are called the thyroid, the arytenoid, and 
the cricoid. The thyroid cartilage in front forms the 
projection in the neck called " Adam's apple." The vocal 
cords so called from their being concerned in the pro- 
duction of the voice are two bands of yellow elastic tissue 



-T 





(1) (2) 

Fig. 111. 

THE CARTILAGES OP THE LARTNT. 
1. Seen from the front. 2. Seen from behind. 

A. Arytenoid Cartilage ; C, Cricoid Cartilage ; E, Epiglottis ; H, Hyoid ; T, Thyroid 
Cartilage. 

covered with mucous membrane, attached in front to the 
thyroid cartilage, and to the arytenoid cartilages behind 
Their free edges are directed upwards. The space between 
the cords is called the glottis and appears as a V-shaped 
chink when the vocal cords are at rest. During inspiration 
the cords move away from each other and the space 
widens, and during expiration the glottis becomes narrower. 
During the utterance of a sound they are brought closely 
together. These movements are produced by the muscles 
of the larynx. 



EAR, THROAT-, VOICE, SMELL, TOUCH. 283 

Production of the Voice. 

The sound of the voice is produced by vibrations of 
the vocal cords. The note given out by a vibrating cord 
depends upon its length and its tension. The greater the 
tension or the shorter the cord the higher is the note 
sounded. Conversely the note is lowered by lengthening 
the cord or decreasing the tension. Thus individuals with 
tenor voices have shorter cords than those with bass voices, 
and the vocal cords in men are longer than in women or 






Fig. 112. 

POSITION OF THE VOCAL CORDS. 

A, during the emission of a high note in singing ; B, during easy inhalation ; 
C, while taking a deep breath. The shaded part represents the space between 
the cords. 

boys. Length and tension influence the rate of vibration 
of the cords, and the " pitch " depends upon the rate of 
vibration. The cords are approximated where a high note 
is being made, and are separated during a low note. The 
range of the voice seldom exceeds two and a half octaves. 

The loudness or intensity of the voice depends upon the 
amplitude or range of vibratory movement, which in its 
turn depends upon the force of the expiratory blast. 

The quality or timbre of the voice depends upon the 
smoothness, elasticity, and thickness of the cords, as well 
as the form and size of the air passages, larynx, pharynx, 



284 EAR, THROAT, VOICE, SMELL, TOUCH. 

and mouth, which act as resonating cavities. We distin- 
guish one voice from another, or the sound of the harp 
from that of the violin, by means of the quality of the 
notes. Adenoids, or any cause of obstruction in the nose, 
throat, or pharynx alters the quality of the voice. 

Production of Speech. 

It is possible to speak without using the vocal cords. 
When one speaks in whispers the slight sound produced 




Fig. 113. 

DIAGRAM SHOWING THE ACTION OF THE MUSCLES THAT ALTER THE POSITION AND 
TENSION OF THE VOCAL CORDS. 

A, Front of Thyroid Cartilage ; B, Vocal Cords ; C, Muscles which move the Ary- 
tenoid Cartilages (E) as on a pivot and so bring together the Vocal Cords and 
increase their tension ; D, Muscle that by its contraction pulls the Arytenoid 
Cartilages (E) nearer together and so approximates the cords also ; F, Muscles 
which move the Arytenoid Cartilages (E) as on a pivot and so separate the cords. 

by the air passing through the air passages is modified 
into speech by movements of the tongue and lips. In the 
same way ordinary speech is produced by modifying and 
modulating the sounds produced by the vibrating vocal 
cords. 

Vowel sounds are produced by varying the form of the 
cavity of the mouth and the shape of the opening. This 



EAR, THROAT, VOICE, SMELL, TOUCH. 285 

is easily verified by producing the pure vowel sounds, A as 
in ay, E as in Tie, as in oh, Oo as in coo, and A as in ah. 
The consonants, with the exception of H, which is pro- 
nounced by increasing the expiratory force with which the 
vowel is spoken, are produced by closing, more or less, 
certain of the exits of the expiratory blast. Aspirates are 
pronounced by partly closing the outlet, so that the air 
rushes through with a hiss. Thus F, V, and W are pro- 
duced by partial closure with the lips, S, Z, L, Sch, and 




Fig. 114. 

THE POSITION OF Lirs AND TONGUE IN PRODUCING VOWEL SOUNDS. 

Th by the tongue and hard palate, and Ch by the tongue 
and soft palate. 

The "resonants " M and N are formed by sending the 
current of air through the nose, the lips being closed in the 
case of M, and the tongue applied to the palate for N. 

The consonants B, P, T, D, K, G (hard) are called 
"explosives," because the mouth is first closed and then 
suddenly burst open. In the case of B and P the lips 
dose the mouth ; for T and D the tongue is applied to the 
teeth or the front of the palate ; while for K and G (hard) 
the middle or back of the tongue is forced against the 
back of the palate. 



286 EAR, THROAT, VOICE, SMELL, TOUCH. 

Care of the Voice. 

As puberty is reached the vocal organs enlarge and there 
is an alteration in the voice. This change occurs at about 
12 or 13 years in girls and 14 or 15 in boys, and is com- 
plete in one or two years. While the voice is " breaking " 
there should be no sustained vocal exercise. For clear 
articulation the manner of breathing is important. Chil- 
dren should be encouraged to use their abdominal muscles 
for respiration quite as much as those which raise the 
chest. Breathing by means of the abdominal muscles 
decreases the fatigue of a sustained use of the voice. To 
breathe properly in this way there must be no obstruction 
to the free movements of the diaphragm and the abdominal 
muscles. Tight lacing, tight belts, an overloaded stomach, 
or flatulence, all prevent the proper production of the 
voice. If the muscles of the neck are brought into visible 
play and the collar bones rise to a considerable extent, it 
is extremely likely that proper abdominal movements are 
impossible for one of the above reasons. 

Children should be taught to speak up and articulate 
clearly, and to use their natural voice when reading aloud. 
It is possible by habitual exercise to educate the voice so that 
continued speaking is not painful or injurious. 



STAMMEEING. 

A common nervous affection, interfering with the proper 
enunciation of words, is stammering or stuttering. This 
is much more common among boys than girls. As a 
result of a lack of proper coordination of the various acts 
involved in fluent speech these children exaggerate the 
movements concerned with articulation, and under-estimate 
the force of the expiratory blast necessary to produce the 



EAR, THROAT, VOICE, SMELL, TOUCH. 287 

voice. The muscles of the tongue and lips (and some- 
times those of the neck and face as well) are over- 
stimulated and get out of control by being thrown into a 
condition of irregular spasm. Stammerers usually have 
no difficulty in singing, partly owing to the fact that the 
expiratory blast is stronger and the lips are not used so 
much as in speaking, and partly because the attention 
is diverted from the consideration of the possibility of 
stammering. 

For the successful treatment of such cases it is necessary 
to devote attention to the following points : 

1. Find out which letters give the greatest difficulty, and 
insist upon continuous practice with words and sentences 
containing these letters in large numbers. Vowel sounds 
usually give no difficulty because they are formed mainly 
in the larynx. The consonants are the difficulty, especially 
those in connection with which the pharynx plays no part, 
viz. P, F, Th, 8, Sh, T, K, B, H, Ch, D, G (hard), the most 
difficult of all being the explosives B, P, T, D, K, G (hard). 

2. Insist upon the chin being raised and the chest being 
fully inflated before beginning to speak. All speaking should 
be performed with a full resonant voice. In bad cases 
the child may be encouraged to adopt a sing-song or 
intoning method of speech. 

3. In order to assist the acquirement of proper nervous 
control the child should be encouraged in every way to 
use the vocal apparatus continually. In many cases mimicry 
and teasing by other children have made the child lose 
all its confidence. 

SMELL. 

The upper part of the cavity of the nose is lined with 
special epithelium, which contains rod-shaped cells con- 
nected with branches of the olfactory nerve. The roof of 
the nose cavity is formed by a plate of bone which is 



288 EAR, THROAT, VOICE, SMELL, TOUCH. 

perforated by numerous holes, through which pass the 
branches of the olfactory nerves on their way to the part 
of the cerebral hemispheres called the olfactory bulb. 

During ordinary inspiration through the nose sufficient 
air passes over this special epithelium for rather strong 
smells to be detected instantly. To detect faint smells we 
usually sniff more air into the upper parts of the nose 
cavity, and then any odoriferous particles in the air will 
act on the rod-shaped cells, causing impulses to be sent 
along the olfactory nerves to the brain. Some movement 
of the air appears to be necessary in order for stimulation 
to take place, and the air containing the odour must be 
drawn against the membrane. The process of sniffing in- 
creases the speed at which the air travels, and also increases 
the proportion of the air that travels along the upper parts 
of the nose cavity. 

TOUCH. 

In some of the papillae of the dermis there is an oval 
structure composed mainly of nucleated cells, and called a 
tactile corpuscle. These are connected with a sensory 
nerve. In addition there are fine fibres of sensory nerves 
between and in connection with some of the cells in the 
deeper layers of the epidermis. The skin, together with 
its papillae, its tactile corpuscles, and its nerve termina- 
tions, is the organ of touch. By its means we are enabled 
to recognise the shape, the hardness, the size, the roughness 
or smoothness of the various things with which we come in 
contact. 

The sense of touch is most delicate at the tips of the 
fingers, on the face, and at the tip of the tongue. In other 
parts of the body, where the epidermis is thicker and sen- 
sory nerve-endings less plentiful, it is less delicate. Two 
points, one-tenth of an inch apart, can be distinguished if 
applied to the tip of the finger, whereas if applied to other 



EAR, THROAT, VOICE, SMELL, TOUCH. 289 

parts they feel like one point. On the back, where the 
sense of touch is least developed, two points separated by 
three inches feel like one. 

Sensations of Pain. 

'Excessive stimulation of, or actual injury to, any sensory 
nerve gives rise to the sensation of pain. The stimulation 
may be either by direct impact, or by heat, or electricity. 
When any part of the skin area is inflamed the area 
becomes very sensitive, and the slightest touch may give 
rise to severe pain. 

Sensations of Temperature. 

In addition to feeling the nature of bodies in contact 
with the skin, we are also able to determine whether they 
are hot or cold. The sensation is entirely due to the effect 
that the bodies have upon the skin. If they are warmer 
than the skin they feel warm, and vice versa. This is 
illustrated by the well-known experiment of placing one 
hand in cold water and the other in hot water, and after- 
wards dipping both hands into lukewarm water. The 
hand that had been previously in hot water will send the 
sensation of cold, while the other, in the same surroundings, 
will feel warm. The skin is valueless as a judge of actual 
temperature, because good conductors of heat appear hotter 
or colder than bad conductors, apart from the fact that the 
sensation depends on the condition of the skin at the time. 

Muscular Sensations. 

Sensory nerves from the muscles tell us the condition of 
the muscles, whether contracted or at rest, and if con- 
tracted they inform us as to the degree of contraction. 
This enables us to judge of the weight of a body placed on 
the hand, especially if the hand is raised and lowered so as 
to lift the body up and down. 

PHY. HYG. 19 



CHAPTER XII. 



THE EYES AND EYESIGHT. 

DURING school life it is important to realise that the body 
of a child is an organism highly susceptible to the effects 
of injurious influences. Also that while a child is at 
school it is surrounded by influences that are more or less 
injurious to its physical well-being. Most of the parts of 
the child's body, however, although highly susceptible to 
injury, have a wonderfully great recuperative power, so 
that although injury is undoubtedly produced during 
school hours it is recovered from during the intervals. 
Some of the organs unfortunately have little of this power 
of recovery, and the eye is one of these. If the eye of a 
child is injured by the school conditions there is little 
possibility of repair. The defect may, of course, be 
remedied by proper glasses, but these do not repair the 
mischief. The greatest care should therefore be taken in 
order to prevent injury to the eyes of school children. 
Under modern conditions it is a serious thing for the 
worker to show signs of advancing age, and the wearing 
of spectacles does not improve a man's chances. At all 
events no one will deny that it is better to remove the 
initial causes of eye strain as far as possible rather than to 
attempt to correct the effects. With regard to children 
suffering from eye defects it should be remembered that 
they are not only handicapped in the struggle to keep the 



THE BYES AND EYESIGHT. 291 

educational pace with children of normal vision, but in 
many cases suffer from the nervous results of defective 
vision headaches, irritability, exhaustion, loss of interest, 
feebleness of will. 

Before describing how eye strain affects the eyes, it is 
necessary to have an elementary knowledge of the structure 
of the eye. 

STRUCTURE OF THE EYE. 

The human eye is often likened to a camera, and, as 
most people have had to do with photography either in 
the active or the passive sense, the comparison is a con- 
venient one. The essential parts of a camera are a box 
to give and maintain the necessary shape to the instru- 
ment, a convex lens to produce the picture, and a sensitive 
plate to receive and record it. In addition to this the box 
must be blackened inside to prevent reflection of light, and 
there must be some mechanism for focussing if pictures of 
objects at varying distances are to be photographed. 

Coats. 

The eye has three coats or layers 

1. The sclerotic and cornea. 

2. The choroid and iris. 

3. The retina. 

The sclerotic or the white of the eye is a tough, dense, 
fibrous membrane forming the greater part of the substance 
of the eyeball. It is the only part of the eye that is 
capable of resisting any strain, so that if by any chance it 
stretches or gives way the rest of the structures will at 
once follow suit. In front it is continued as the cornea, 
which, being transparent, forms the window of the eye. 

The choroid lies internal to the sclerotic, and is a net- 
work of blood-vessels. Its inner surface is black in order 



292 THE EYES AND EYESIGHT. 

to prevent reflection, which would cause confusion of the 
images. This layer of black pigment is absent in albinoes, 
who, in consequence, are almost blind in bright daylight. 
CFnder the cornea the choroid is represented by a specialised 
structure called the iris, which is a circular contractile 
diaphragm. The central hole is called the pupil. Varying 
proportions and distribution of pigment deposited here 
give the different colours to different eyes. 



Cfc 




Fig. 115. 

DIAGRAMMATIC SECTION OF EYE. 

A, Anterior chamber filled with aqueous humour; C, Cornea; Ch, Choroid, 
I, Iris ; L, Crystalline lens ; O, Optic nerve ; R, Retina ; S, Sclerotic ; 
SL, Suspensory ligament ; V, Vitreous humour ; Y, Yellow spot. 

The retina forms the inner coat of the eye, and repre- 
sents the sensitive plate of a camera. It is extremely 
delicate and thin, averaging only about ^ inch in thickness. 
It has a complicated structure, being made up of a vast 
number of minute bodies, placed together side by side 
like the squares of a mosaic, and is really an elaborate 
signalling apparatus for sending signals to the brain 
referring to the kind of impressions that it is receiving. 
One spot of the retina, called the yellow spot, differs 



THE EYES AND EYESIGHT. 293 

from the remainder in its structure. It is the region of 
most distinct vision i.e. the spot upon which objects are 
focussed when they must be seen distinctly, as in the 
case of all special work such as reading, writing, or sewing 
The enormous number of tiny nerve fibres from all parts 
of the retina are collected together at the back into a largo 
trunk or cable called the optic nerve. The messages pass 
along these fibres to the part of the brain that has to 
deal with them. This part of the brain is best regarded 
as a kind of central office for receiving and interpreting 
these multitudes of messages. 

Contents. 

The contents of the eyeball are : 

1. The aqueous humour. 

2. The crystalline lens. 

3. The vitreous humour. 

The aqueous humour is a watery liquid occupying the 
chamber between the crystalline lens and the cornea. The 
crystalline lens is a translucent solid body, composed of 
soft gelatinous living tissue, situated immediately behind 
the pupil and partly imbedded in the vitreous humour. 
It is convex on both sides, but more so behind. In early 
life it is nearly spherical and soft, but becomes more 
flattened, firmer, and amber-coloured with advancing age. 
The lens is held in position by its capsule and suspensory 
ligament. The vitreous humour is a jelly-like material 
lying at the back of the lens and occupying about four-fifths 
of the interior of the globe. The above three substances are 
transparent, and with the cornea constitute the refractive 
media of the eye, which conjointly act as a converging 
lens, the function of which is to bring the rays of light to 
a focus upon the retina. 



294 THE EYES AND EYESIQHT. 

Muscles. 

Attached to the outside of the eye are six muscles, 
four straight and two oblique. The four straight muscles 




SO. 



Fig. 116. 

INSERTION OF THE STRAIGHT MUBCI.ES 

8R, Superior Rectus ; LR (below), Inferior Rectus; ER, External 
Rectus ; IR, Internal Rectus. 

are attached symmetrically round the globe, above, below, 

right, left. These muscles, by their contractions, enable 

us to direct the eye towards 

different points. It is obvious 

that by the single action of one, 

or the combined action of two, 

the eye can be turned towards 

any direction. The two oblique 

muscles are inserted, slantwise, 

one above and one below the 

eye. By their contraction they 

can rotate the eye on its axis. 

Their action is best understood 

if a mark in the iris be watched 

while the head is moved from side to side. It will be 

then seen that the eye does not rotate with the head, 




LR. 



LO 
Fig. 117. 

MUSCLES OF THE EYE. 
SO, Superior Oblique; IO, In- 
ferior Oblique; 8R, Superior 
Rectus; IR, Inferior Rectus; 
ER, External Rectus. 



THE EYES AND EYESIGHT. 295 

but keeps its vertical meridian always vertical, during 
moderate movements of the head, by the contraction of 
its oblique muscles. 

ACCOMMODATION. 

If a candle, a convex lens, and a screen are held in line 
it is easy, by adjusting the distances separating them, to 
get a clearly denned image of the candle flame upon the 
screen. The image is then said to be in focus. If the 
candle is moved further away or nearer to the lens the 
image on the screen will become indistinct and is out of 
focus. In the same way it is necessary to adjust, or focus, 
a telescope or field-glass in order that the desired object 




Fig. 118. 



NORMAL EYE EECKIVINO PARALLKL RAYS (FROM DISTANT OBJECTS) AND BRINGING 
THKM TO A FOCUS ON THE RETINA. 



may be seen clearly. Now we know that the normal eye 
has the power to direct its attention to a distant object 
and see it clearly, and then immediately to turn its atten- 
tion to a near object and see that equally clearly. This 
is called accommodation. It is accomplished by altering 
the convexity of the lens. The convexity of the lens is 
increased by the contraction of a small muscle inside the 
eye. The more convex the lens the greater the power it 
has of turning the rays of light out of their original path 
and causing them to come to a focus. When the eye is 
looking at distant objects it is receiving light composed of 



296 THE EYES AND EYESIGHT. 

rays that are practically parallel to each other, and the 
normal lens is capable of bringing these to a focus on the 
retina. Kays are practically parallel when springing from 
a point 20 feet or more distant. From near objects, how- 
ever, the rays are divergent, and need more turning to 
bring them to a focus. In order to focus such rays the 
convexity of the lens is altered to the necessary extent by 
the contraction of the muscle already referred to. So that 
when looking at distant objects there is no muscular 
strain, and hence no fatigue, but looking at near objects 
involves contraction of the muscles and is liable to bring 




119. 



NORMAL ETK RECEITING RATS FROM NEAR OBJECT AND BRINGING THEM TO A 

Focus ON THE RETINA BY INCREASING THK THICKNESS OP ITS LENS 

(ACCOMMODATION) . 

about strain and fatigue. Also when looking at near 
objects there is necessarily contraction of the external 
muscles of the eye in order to pull the eyes towards each 
other, and so that the axis of each eye is directed towards 
the object to be seen. It therefore follows that the nearer 
the object is that we look at the greater is the muscular 
strain inside the eye, the greater the tension on the scle- 
rotic by the muscles pulling outside, and the greater the 
pressure exerted by the semi-liquid contents of the eyeball. 
These strains are likely to distort the shape of the eye. 
Looking at near objects involves muscular effort and exer- 
tion, and if unduly prolonged will cause fatigue, a condition 
which still further increases the tendency towards distortion. 



THE EYES AND EYESIGHT. 297 

DEFECTIVE EYES. 

Short-sighted Eye. 

When the strain upon the sclerotic coat becomes too 
great for it to withstand it stretches. Like all materials 
it stretches at its weakest part, which happens to be at the 
back. Stretching in this region will cause the eye to 
become longer than normal in its axis from front to back. 




Fig. 120. 

SHORT-SIGHTED ETE RECEIVING RATS FROM DISTANT OBJKOT. 

These rays are focussed in front of retina and so produce a blurred picture on 
the retina. 

The result will be that when this eye is looking at distant 
objects, i.e. receiving parallel light, the usual amount 




Fig. 121. 

8HORT-8IOHTVD ETK RECEIVING RATS FROM NEAR OBJECT. 

These rays are accurately focussed on the retina and produce a clear picture 

of focussing will form the image in front of the retina 
(because the retina is farther back than usual). The 
picture thrown upon the retina will therefore be blurred 
and indistinct. But when this eye looks at near objects 
the light that it receives consists of divergent rays which 



298 THE EYES AND EYESIGHT. 

require more turning to bring them to a focus, and which 
therefore tend to come to a focus farther back. The 
result is that a clear picture is formed on the retina in 
this case and the eye sees the near objects quite well. 
Such an eye is therefore called short-sighted (or myopic). 
It is important to remember that a child is never Born 




Fig. 122. 

SHORT-SIGHTED ETK WITH SUITABLE LKXS IK FRONT. 

The hollow lens disperses the rays of light hefore they enter the eye. The eye 
then brings them to a focus on the retina. 

with this elongation of the eye. It is always an acquired 
defect, and is very rare even at the age of five. 

The remedy is fairly obvious. It is only necessary to 
put something in the path of the rays of light that will 
delay the focussing, or disperse them. This is brought 
about by a concave or hollow lens placed in front of the 
eye, the degree of concavity of the lens being accurately 
adjusted to suit each case. 

Long-sighted Eye. 

This is a congenital defect. The eye is developed with 
its axis from front to back shorter than usual, and the 
child is born with the eye in this condition. The result is 
that a picture of a distant object formed in the usual way 
would be focussed behind the retina, and only a blurred 
impression would be received. In order to see such a 
distant object clearly the eye then accommodates and 



THE BYES AND EYESIGHT. 



299 



brings the rays more quickly to a focus, and so produces a 
clear picture on the retina. But if this eye now turns its 




Fig. 123. 

LONG-SIGHTED ETE RECEIVING RATS PROM DISTANT OBJECT. 

These rays are focussed on the retina by increasing tho thickness of the lens 
(accommodation). 




Fig. 124. 

LONO-BIGHTKD EYE RECEIVING RAYS FROM NEAR OBJECT. 

These cannot be focussed on the retina because the eye has already used its power 
of accommodation. 




Fig. 12-3. 

LONG-SIGHTED EYE WITH SUITABLE LENS IN FRONT. 
This lens assists the lens of the eye to bring the rays to a focus more quickly. 

attention to near objects it cannot possibly see them clearly 
because it has already used its powers of accommodation to 
view distant ones. The result is that such an eye fails to 



300 THE EYES AND EYESIGHT. 

see the near objects distinctly, and is therefore called long- 
sighted. 

The remedy is simple. A convex lens (like the one in 
the eye) is placed in front in order to bring the rays more 
quickly to a focus, and in that way remove the necessity of 
accommodating for distant objects. 

Astigmatism. 

This is another congenital defect. Some children are 
born with the surface of the cornea unequally convex, the 
convexity being greater in the vertical meridian than in 
the horizontal, or vice versa. This will interfere with the 
proper focussing of the picture and prevent distinct vision. 
The rays passing through the cornea in the vertical plane 
do not come to a focus at precisely the same spot as rays 
passing through it in the horizontal plane. Such a child, 
when looking at a clock face, may notice that the figures 
XII. and VI. (vertical) are clear and black, while the IX. 
and III. (horizontal) are dim and grey, or vice versa. If a 
cross is held in front of the child the vertical and the 
horizontal sticks cannot be focussed at the same time, so 
that one or the other always appears dim. The defect is 
extremely common in small degrees, and it very commonly 
accompanies long sight. The greater degrees cause severe 
eye strain and headache, and should be corrected by 
proper glasses. 

Squint. 

Squint is the term applied when the eyes are not both 
directed towards the object looked at. One eye may turn 
inward more than the other, or one eye may turn outward. 
Occasionally one meets a case where one eye squints at one 
time and the other at another. The recognition and treat- 
ment of these cases is very important, because an eye that 



THE EYES AND EYESIGHT. 301 

habitually squints from any cause, muscular or nervous, 
tends to deteriorate and become useless, and may eventually 
become blind. A common cause of squint is inequality of 
vision in the two eyes. 



SHORT SIGHT. 

Short sight is rarely congenital, it is always acquired as 
the result of certain injurious influences. The causes, like 
the causes of any disease, are best classified into the pre- 
disposing and the determining. The predisposing causes 
include heredity, malnutrition and constitutional disease. 
The determining causes are excessive convergence, eye 
strain, and congestion. 

Predisposing 
Heredity 
Malnutrition 



Causes of Short Sight , 



Constitutional Disease 
Determining 

Excessive Convergence 
Congestion 



Heredity. 

The tendency only is inherited. It has already been 
pointed out that a child is never born with the elongated 
eye that gives short sight. A child may be born with long 
sight or astigmatism, but the shape of the eye of the 
future short-sighted child is not elongated at birth. But a 
weak sclerotic may have been inherited from one or both 
parents, and this will, of course, predispose to short sight. 
Such a child may grow up with perfectly normal eyes ; in 
fact, if it never went to school it would almost certainly do 
so, but the chances are in favour of the strains of school 
life stretching the abnormally weak sclerotic. On the 



302 THE EYES AND EYESIGHT. 

other hand, although many myopic children have parents 
who suffer from the same defect, it is usually found that 
the parents of nearly half the short-sighted children are 
not themselves myopic. It is a significant fact that 
myopia usually first begins to become troublesome at the 
age of eight or nine, i.e. when the strain of school con- 
ditions have had time to produce the necessary distortion. 
Myopia once acquired tends to increase if the causes 
which produce it are allowed to continue. 

Malnutrition. 

Defective nutrition plays another important part as a 
predisposing cause of short sight. It is usual to find more 
defects among weakly and underfed children than among 
the more healthy and better fed. In these cases the 
sclerotic simply shares in the general deterioration of 
tissue, and is less capable of withstanding strain than the 
normal sclerotic. 

Disease. 

Constitutional disease may be a factor in any case of 
myopia. A commonly occurring case is that of a healthy 
child with normal vision in attendance at school. Some 
acute illness supervenes, necessitating absence from school 
for some weeks. The child recovers and returns to school, 
still with normal vision, but in a comparatively short time 
the strain of school life has caused the sclerotic to stretch, 
and the child becomes short-sighted. The previously 
healthy sclerotic was able to withstand the strain, but 
when it was suffering, with the other tissues of the body, 
from the defective nutrition caused by the illness, it could 
no longer resist the pulling and straining that it received. 



THE BYES AND EYESIGHT. 303 

Professor Priestley Smith says : "A sound physique, a 
healthy, vigorous condition of the body generally is antago- 
nistic to the working of almost every morbid process, and 
even in the case of short sight, the causes of which are 
mainly local rather than constitutional in their operation, 
it has a powerful deterrent influence. An ill -nourished, 
pale, and lax condition of the body lowers the resisting 
power of the eye, as of every other organ ; an impaired 
physique brings with it, among other evils, an impaired 
resistance to the active causes of short sight." 

Eye Strain or Excessive Convergence. 

It has already been pointed out that when the eye is 
looking at objects 20 feet or more away it is at rest, and 
no muscular effort is required. On the other hand, in 
looking at a near object, the eyes assume a position of 
convergence. Each eye is pulled towards the other by the 
muscle which is attached to its inner side. The nearer 
the object the greater the pulling required. The object 
of convergence is to bring the yellow spot of each retina 
to bear on the same point. This pull puts the sclerotic 
coat on the stretch, and is the direct mechanical cause 
leading to the production of short sight. If the twenty- 
first year, or perhaps to be quite safe it should be the 
twenty-fifth year, is reached without any stretching of the 
sclerotic coat it is extremely unlikely that short sight will 
ever be developed. By that age the coat is sufficiently 
tough to resist all ordinary strain. 

It has been proved beyond all doubt that our educational 
methods are chiefly to blame for the production of short 
sight. Dr. Seggel, for instance, examined the eyes of 
1600 soldiers, and divided the men into classes according 
to their previous histories. 



304 THE EYES AND EYESIGHT. 

Percentage of 
Previous History. Short- sigh ted 

Men. 

Countrymen, educated in village schools ... 2 

Labourers, porters, etc., from towns ... ... 4 

Artisans 9 

Tradesmen, clerks, compositors ... ... 44 

University students ... ... ... : ... 58 65 

Another observer, Dr. Cohn, as the result of extensive 
and laborious investigations, found that short sight was 
present in one per cent, of the children in village schools, 
in six per cent, of elementary town schools, and rose to 
twenty-six per cent, in the advanced schools. Statistics also 
tend to prove conclusively that the proportion of children 
suffering from myopia steadily increases from the lower to 
the upper classes in schools. Among children between seven 
and nine years of age about two or three per cent, are short- 
sighted, while among those between ten and eleven years 
about eight per cent., and of those between twelve and thir- 
teen years about fifteen per cent. Dr. Kerr, on examining 
infants, found that fifteen per cent, of seven-year-old 
children had a moderate deficiency of vision, and four-and- 
a-half per cent, had bad vision. At the age of eight these 
numbers had increased to sixteen and seven respectively. 
The chief factors in the production of eye strain are fine 
work, bad light, improper attitudes, bad methods of writing, 
and small and indistinct type. 

Small print, fine stitches, small writing, and all such 
.work should be regarded as unnecessary torture for 
children. Nothing could possibly have been devised to do 
more harm than the needlework that is usually taught 
infants. It is undoubtedly the cause of the excess of 
short sight among girls. Mr. Priestley Smith found myopia 
in 7 per cent, of the girls and 4| per cent, of the boys he 
examined. 



THE BYES AND EYESIGHT. 305 

Type. 

For school books a plain legible type of the proper size 
should be used. For children under seven years old there 
should be no smaller type than English, and larger type is 
preferable, while for older children the best type is Pica. 

[English.] 

He has, however, something better. As 
the best preservative against Popery, he 
recommends the diligent perusal of the 
Scriptures ; a duty, from which he warns 

[Pica.] 

He has, however, something better. As 
the best preservative against Popery, he 
recommends the diligent perusal of the 
Scriptures ; a duty, from which he warns 

[Small Pica.] 

He has, however, something better. As the 
best preservative against Popery, he recommends 
the diligent perusal of the Scriptures ; a duty, from 
which he warns the busy part of mankind not to 

[Long Primer.] 

He has, however, something better. As the best 
preservative against Popery, he recommends the dili- 
gent perusal of the Scriptures ; a duty, from which he 
warns the busy part of mankind not to think themselves 

[Bourgeois.] 

He has, however, something better. As the best preser- 
vative against Popery, he recommends the diligent perusal of 
the Scriptures ; a duty, from which he warns the busy part 
of mankind not to think themselves excused. He now reprinted 

PHY. HYG. 20 



306 THE EYES AND EYESIGHT. 

Clearness and spacing are quite as important as size- 
All type in school books should be leaded. The great 
effect of this in increasing legibility is shown by the 
following examples : 

[Solid Typ.) 

He has, however, something better. As the best 
preservative against Popery, he recommends the 
diligent perusal of the Scriptures; a duty, from 
which he warns the busy part of mankind not to 

[Thin Leaded Type.] 

He has, however, something better. As the best 
preservative against Popery, he recommends the 
diligent perusal of the Scriptures ; a duty, from 
which he warns the busy part of mankind not to 

[Double Leaded Type.] 

He has, however, something better. As the best 
preservative against Popery, he recommends the 
diligent perusal of the Scriptures ; a duty, from 
which he warns the busy part of mankind not to 

The intervals between words should be not less than 
double the width of a single letter, and for beginners it 
is an advantage to have still greater intervals. 

The length of the line of print is also important. The 
shorter the line the less fatigue it produces, because the 
eyes have to be moved less. The maximum length of line 
should be from 3 to 3^ inches, and no double column 
arrangement should be allowed. The printer's habit of 
splitting a word at the end of a line is trying to the eye, 



THE EYES AND EYESIGHT. 307 

and should not be allowed in school books. It is a further 
advantage for the page to be well broken up into sections 
and paragraphs. 

The kind of paper must be considered. It should be 
opaque and sufficiently stout to prevent the print on the 
other side showing through. In fact there should be no 
indication whatever that there is printed matter on the 
other side of the paper. The surface must be dull and 
smooth, and the best colour is a faint neutral cream or 
grey. 

The colour of the ink, both for writing and printing, 
should be jet black. The question of handwriting has 
already been discussed, but it should be noted here that 
children under seven years of age should not be expected 
to write letters less than half an inch in height. 

There is undoubtedly far too much reading and writing 
inflicted upon young children. All fine work should be 
avoided, if it is desired that the child should grow up 
uninjured by its educational experience. Map-reading and 
map-drawing are common tortures for the eyes, most of 
the print and writing thereon being necessarily very small. 
Most maps present a mass of bewildering detail that no 
young child should be expected to decipher. The sprawl- 
ing of the names of districts and provinces among the 
names of the towns, the shading which is intended to 
represent mountains, and the winding in and out of the 
rivers unite to produce utter confusion. Small maps 
should be abolished, and large wall maps and those drawn 
on blackboards, by teacher or scholars, substituted. 

Congestion. 

Congestion, or overfilling of the small blood vessels in 
the neighbourhood of the eye, is an active cause of the 
stretching that brings about short sight. It is produced 



308 THE BYES AND EYESIGHT. 

by many of the conditions common to school life. Bending, 
either due to bad desks, bad light, or very fine work, or a 
combination of two or more of such common conditions, 
quickly causes congestion in these regions. In girls' 
classes it is often brought about rapidly by tight collars, 
while a cause which is common to all the .standards, but 
particularly infants, is mental fatigue. 

Signs of Short Sight. 

The signs of short sight are very obvious when the 
deficiency is pronounced, but only very careful testing will 
detect it at the early stages. The pronounced signs are 
that the child holds its work close to the eyes, and can read 
easily from a book held near, but makes mistakes when 
copying work from a diagram or from the blackboard at a 
distance. The child often acquires a habit of peering, 
and knitting its brows. Headache and pain are also com- 
mon indications of eye trouble. 

Signs of Long Sight. 

Long sight usually does not give rise to such obvious 
symptoms as short sight. These eyes can distinguish 
distant objects with ease, and often manage nearer ones if 
the effort is not prolonged. Such a child in a reading 
lesson will read accurately for a few lines, then stop or 
make a mistake, and when questioned as to the cause will 
complain that "the letters are dancing about." The 
continued effort at exaggerated accommodation has 
exhausted the muscles and they refuse to maintain the 
strain. After a short rest, or a rub, the task can be 
resumed. Headache, blinking, red and watery eyes are 
other signs and symptoms of this defect. 



THE BYES AND EYESIGHT. 309 

Treatment of Eye Defects. 

In the majority of cases it will be found that the 
defective vision can be improved by the proper glasses. 
The eye is then relieved from much of its strain, and the 
deficiency may not increase. On the other hand, there 
could be no greater mistake than to suppose that every 
child with defective vision requires glasses. A few will 
regain normal vision in a few years, without glasses, if the 
eyes are relieved from the strain of fine work. There are 
considerable numbers of children attending school whose 
vision is bad and whom glasses will not help. The only 
way to treat such children is to apply to them a con- 
siderable modification of our educational system. Special 
provision is made for the blind already, but these children 
are much more worth educating than the blind, and yet 
are being severely injured by the ordinary school educa- 
tion. 

It should be clearly understood that myopia in children, 
even though not severe at the time, must be regarded as a 
serious condition, inasmuch as it not only tends to increase 
in severity, but it also may cause disease of the eye which 
diminishes the acuteness of vision and may lead to 
blindness. 

To Prevent Injury to Eyes at School. 

To sum up, we may say that the essential points to be 
observed in order to prevent injury to the eyes of school 
children are : 

1. The room must be well lighted in every part. No 
room should be deemed satisfactory by a casual inspection. 
The light ought to be actually tested in those places 
farthest away from the windows. A simple test that has 



310 THE EYES AND EYESIGHT. 

been suggested is that a scholar should be able to read at 
12 inches distance, and without strain, diamond type. For 
example : 



In fact, the occasion had brought to light one of the many contradiction* in the Roman constitu- 
tion. On the ont kand Cicero, a* commissioned to use the dictatorial powers, was within his rights 
in executing the prisoners; OB the other, it was contrary to law to assail the life of any citizen 
without the sanctiom of the people. Cicero was at once right and wrong, and moreover, apart from 
the mere question of legality, the crisis was grave enough if all was true that Cicero's informant! 
alleged to.be the facts to condone stern measures ; but unfortunately it came at the very time when 



2. The direction of the light should be from the left if 
possible. At all events there must be no window or any 
source of light in front of the children. 

3. No unreasonably fine objects should be used. Every- 
thing that the children use should be easily distinguished. 

4. There should be no stooping over the work. 

5. The work must not be held nearer to the eyes than 12 
inches. 

6. This is the most important rule of all. No child 
under seven years old should read ordinary book print, nor 
write ordinary small handwriting, nor should do any sewing 
whatever. Until this fundamental principle is observed in 
every school in the country there will continue to be un- 
necessary damage done to children's eyes. 



TESTING OF EYESIGHT. 

The usual test type is that for use at 20 feet distance. 
Under each line of type is a number signifying the distance 
in feet that the type should be legible to the normal eye. 
The largest type is usually numbered 200 feet, and the others 
range down 100, 70, 50, 40, 30, and the smallest 20 feet. 



THE EYES AND EYESIGHT. 



311 



The child should stand, facing the type, at a distance of 20 
feet from it. He then reads the letters row by row, begin- 
ning a.t the top. If all the letters are read correctly from 
top to bottom the child is passed as normal. As a matter 
of fact a child's vision should be better than what is called 
" normal." The method of recording results is usually to 
express them as fractions, all having a common numerator, 
20, and having as denominator the figure representing the 



U T P V O 

20 TYPE. 

OLTB 

40 TYPE. 

distance at which a normal eye could read the smallest 
letters that were correctly read by the child in question. 
The normal child would thus be recorded f . Another 
child might make a mistake with the " 30 feet type," so 
that the smallest type that he has read correctly is the " 40 
feet type." His vision, record*^ as J. Some test cards 
record the distances in metres, the 20 feet type being repre- 
sented by 6 metres. This causes all the numerators to 
become 6 instead of 20. 



312 THE EYES AND EYESIGHT. 

It is, however, desirable that teachers should devote 
themselves solely to detecting children with eyes below 
the normal, without trying to determine the exact degree 
of deficiency. For this purpose the writer (in consultation 
with Dr. J. R. Kaye, County Medical Officer) drew up the 
following rules for use in the schools of the West Riding 
of Yorkshire. 

WEST RIDING COUNTY COUNCIL. 



SIGHT-TESTING OF SCHOOL CHILDREN. 

General Scheme. 

It is considered advisable that the teacher should roughly 
divide the children into three chief classes : 

A. Normal Vision. Those children who can easily read 

"20 type" at 20 feet. 

B. Moderate Deficiency. Those children who fail to 

read " 20 type " correctly at 20 feet, but can read 
" 40 type " at 20 feet. 

C. More Serious Defects. Those children who fail to 

read " 20 type " and " 40 type " at 20 feet. 

Directions for Testing. 

The Type. Several selections of "20 type" and "40 
type " are provided in order that the children may not 
acquire any degree of familiarity with the letters and 
their order. The letters should be hung in a good light, 
but not in direct sunlight, five feet from the floor. 

The Scholar. The child should stand, facing the type, 
at a distance of 20 feet. No window or any source of light 



THE EYES AND EYESIGHT. 



313 



should be opposite the scholar. Any straining or guessing 
should be prevented as far as possible. 

Method. All the Scholars are first tested with the " 40 
type." Those who fail with this test constitute Class C. 
The others are submitted to the test with " 20 type " which 
will serve to divide them into groups A and B. (If 
time allows, group may also be tested with the " 20 
type.") 

A Register should be previously prepared with the names 
and columns ruled as follows : 



Name. 


Stand- 
ard. 


(l) 
Date. 


(2) 
40 
Type. 


(3) 
20 
Type. 


(4) 

Class of 
Vision. 


Remarks. 


Jones, John 






+ 


+ 


A 




Robinson, Mary 











C 




Smith, Thos. . 






+ 





B 





The Register should contain at least four sets of the 
columns marked 1 to 4, so as to hold the results of four 
consecutive examinations. 

Each child's sight should be tested as soon after entering 
the school as possible, and twice a year after. 



Children Requiring Attention. 

Short of actual testing of the eyesight the following list 
may prove useful in helping the teacher to select suitable 
cases requiring the attention of the Medical Officer : 

1. All those with sore eyes. 

2. All those whose eyes are congested and red. 



314 



THE EYES AND EYESIGHT. 



3. All those who peer and blink when they wish to see 
anything particularly well. 

4. All those who appear to be in difficulty when they are 
reading from map or diagram or blackboard. 

5. All those who complain of headache, or who appear 
to fear a bright light. 

6. All those who turn the head sideways or slanting in 
order to read. 

7. All those who hold the book nearer than one foot 
when reading. Also those who hold the book at arm's 
length. 

8. All those who squint constantly or occasionally. 



CHAPTER XIII. 



POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 
POSTURES. 

BAD positions in writing, drawing, reading, and standing, 
or sitting on a simple form, are prominent causes of 
deformity. Twisted spinal columns, malformations in 
chest, injured eyes, stooping habits, and shuffling gait, 




Fig. 126. 

with many kinds of bodily ailments, follow a want of 
knowledge upon these subjects. Fig. 126 illustrates a kind 
of injurious position which is very common. 

315 



316 POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 

The division of postures into four chief classes is conve- 
nient, namely the respective positions for reading, writing, 
receiving instruction, and standing. They might also be 
divided into (1) correct postures, (2) those caused by bad 
desks, and (3) those which are simply due to lack of train- 
ing and proper and intelligent supervision, such as the 
injurious postures assumed by children owing to inactivity 
from long confinement. 



1. FOR RECEIVING INSTRUCTION. 

The ideal sitting posture is the one in which the pupil's 
body is symmetrically placed and which economises mus- 




Fig. 127. 

CORRECT POSITION. VERY TIRING IF NO SUPPORT TO THE BACK. 

cular effort. In such a position the pelvis rests equally 
on the seat of the desk, the spinal column Is erect and 



POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 3J7 

shows clearly its normal four curves, the head is so poised 
as to afford relief to the muscles in front and at the back 
of the neck, the arms balance, and the hands rest upon the 
thighs, which are horizontal. It is best described as a 
position of balance, in which the force of gravity largely 
replaces muscular exertion. It is not one which can be 
maintained, however, for longer periods than a few minutes 
unless some support is given to the back and the support 
to the feet is at the correct level, which is an indirect way 




Fig. 128. 
POSITION INVOLVING TWIST OP SPINE. 

of saying that the height of the seat must be accurately 
adjusted to the physical needs of each and every scholar. 

Positions causing any twist of the spinal column, such as 
is illustrated in Fig. 128 are very injurious. Here the verte- 
bral column is twisted through 45, the effect of which is 
to overstretch some of the ligaments connecting the verte- 
brae, as well as to put undue pressure and strain upon 
some of the bony parts. 



318 POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 

2. FOR READING. 

Faulty positions for reading are potent causes of short 
sight. Children are allowed and encouraged to read small 
print at far too early an age, the result being that the eye 
becomes strained and permanently injured. The greatest 
possible care and attention is necessary in order to prevent 
modern educational methods from producing such disastrous 
results. Beading and writing are liable to be exceedingly 




Fig. 129. 



Fig. 130. 



injurious to children under ten. Short sight is rare among 
people who have not received the present-day " book educa- 
tion," but have been reared among healthy surroundings 
and have spent a large proportion of their life- out of doors. 
On the other hand the studious individual, and one who 
has won distinctions at school and college, usually is com- 
pelled to rely upon spectacles in order to obtain normal 
vision. A great deal of this injury received during early 
education is preventable and should be prevented, but it 



POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES 319 

will probably continue to exist as long as a university 
degree or diploma is considered of greater importance to a 
teacher than a thorough grasp of anatomy, physiology, and 
hygiene so far as they apply to school- life. Such knowledge 
is of vital importance, and yet it is only acquired by an odd 
teacher here and there who makes this subject his or her 
hobby. 

It is an undoubted fact that modern life makes great 
demands upon our eyes, so that it is a national duty to 
protect the eyes from damage during the early years. The 
eyes of a child readily give way under strain, and permanent 
injury is easily produced. It is nothing short of criminal 
to set a class of children any task that imposes strain on 
their eyes, and it should be one of the first duties of a 
teacher to protect his or her scholars from this kind of 
physical deterioration. Instead of this, it may be said 
without any exaggeration that school life impairs the eye- 
sight of more than fifty per cent, of the scholars. 

When reading the pupil must sit erect, and the eyes 
must be at least 12 inches away from the book. When it 
is held nearer the eyes than this short sight or myopia is 
likely to be produced. For easy reading the printed 
matter should be held at an angle of 45 to the horizontal, 
and not too much below the level of the eyes, if the head 
is to be kept comfortably in a good posture. The eyes 
become fatigued much sooner if they are directed upwards 
or horizontally. 

A position often assumed by children is shown by Fig. 131. 
Here the chest is contracted and respiration becomes shal- 
low. The shoulder-blades are widely separated and, instead 
of lying evenly upon the ribs, their posterior borders are 
thrust outwards. The dorsal curve of the spinal column is 
increased, while the lumbar curve is reversed. An increase 
in the obliquity of the ribs is also produced, resulting in a 



320 POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 

further reduction in the capacity of the chest. Added to 
this the anterior abdominal wall becomes folded, and the 
contents of the abdomen are unduly pressed upon. The 
greater part of the weight of the head has to be borne by 
the muscles at the back of the neck, and these, in common 
with many of the back muscles, become weakened and 
stretched. A frequent cause of this posture is unduly long 
periods of confinement. 




Fig. 131. 

INJURIOUS POSITION. 

Another position often assumed by children who have 
been kept sitting too long is shown in Fig. 132 where the 
child has slipped forward upon his seat, and nearly the 
whole of the body weight falls upon the sacrum, coccyx, 
and shoulder-blades. It is said that prolonged inactivity 
at the hip joint is the chief factor in causing a scholar to 
assume this position. Adults are often seen to adopt this 
posture as affording a relief after prolonged sitting. Such 



POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 32l 

a position is undoubtedly injurious for children. With the 
head dropped forward and the chest contracted there can 
only be inefficient breathing. A decrease in the amount of 
oxygen inhaled causes an immediate diminution in the 
vitality and mental activity, so that any position which 
hampers free expansion of the lungs is to be condemned- 
The muscles at the back of the neck become tired and 




Fig. 132. 

INJURIOUS POSITION. 

stretched, and the child acquires a stooping and drooping 
habit. The proper shape of the body is further distorted 
by the reversal of the cervical and lumbar curves of the 
spine, thereby reducing the four natural curves to one long 
one. This again causes undue stretching of ligaments and 
muscles. 

The flattened chest, contracted shoulder girdle, and 
stooping head are constantly seen in practically every 

PHY. HYG. 21 



322 POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 

school. Such postures cause short sight, interfere with 
respiration and general thoracic development, and throw 
unnecessary labour upon the heart. The abdominal organs 
are compressed and forced into unnatural positions, and 
the production of round shoulders, curved spine, and 
drooping head is also the effect of such postures. 

3. FOR WRITING. 

Bad positions for writing are universal still and are the 
common causes of spinal curvature. The curve thus pro- 
duced has its convexity to the right, and is produced 
largely by the fact that the right arm and hand are 
supported by the desk, while the left arm hangs idle and 
unsupported. 

It is not yet clearly understood that writing is a severe 
trial to a child. It is easy for a teacher to set a copy and 
to tell children to imitate it, but he or she is apt to forget 
that writing is an act which involves a complicated 
coordination of muscular movement. The child is not yet 
able to use a few muscles at a time his tendency is to use 
groups of muscles together but writing involves the use 
of a few muscles from several groups. The result is that 
he finds the labour involved is painful and very tiring : 
he uses more muscles than are necessary, and, in order to 
balance the undesired effect of the unnecessary ones, he 
brings into use still more of them. The effect of this is to 
produce an unnatural strain and rigidity of most of the 
muscles, especially those in the hand and arm, followed by 
a desire to constantly alter the posture of the body in the 
vain effort to release the tension and fatigue so produced 
Writing is an extremely complicated and special act. It 
not only involves careful control over those muscles which 
are required for such fine and exact movements, but also 
inhibition of many muscles which, for other actions, are 



POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 323 

accustomed to act in unison with them. This fact should 
be properly appreciated by all teachers. Many of the 
injurious postures assumed by children while writing are 
the direct result of an attempt, on their part, to release the 
tension and fatigue produced by so complicated an act. 




Fig. 133. 

COMMON POSITION FOR WRITINO. SPINK CURVED WITH CONVEXITY TO HIOHT. 

Many of the undesirable results can be prevented by proper 
attention to the following points : 

1. The method of writing for beginners. 

2. The style of writing. 

3. The manner of holding the pen. 

4. The use of the left hand. 

5. The position for writing. 

All these points are so closely connected with the 
subject of posture that it will be best to discuss them 
forthwith. 



324 POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 

Writing for Beginners. 

Children should practise strokes, curves, and letter 
forms upon a blackboard, using crayons, for the first 
twelve months. Strokes at different angles should first be 
tried, then simple curves, and finally letter forms. The 
child should be allowed to draw the letter as large or as 
small as he desires. Many children succeed best when they 
first write a letter about 6 inches in height, and smaller 
sizes should not be practised until considerable facility 
has been acquired in drawing letters of the chosen size. 
Ultimately letters of 2 inches in height should be written 
by first year scholars. By starting under such conditions 
the child is relieved of part of the strain that is inseparable 
from writing upon paper at a desk. While he is standing 
at the blackboard he is using many more muscles than 
when sitting ; thereby removing a common cause of fatigue. 
Also the movements are coarser and more free, and he can 
move along as he writes. Further relief from strain and 
fatigue is afforded by the more convenient position of a 
blackboard compared with the top of a desk. 

At the end of the first year the scholar may commence 
writing on paper at a desk. Pens and pencils, however, 
should not yet be introduced: it is best to begin with 
black smooth crayon. Writing and drawing with these 
crayons should occupy the second year, or the greater part 
of it. The use of the pencil should be introduced after- 
wards, as this involves the additional strain of fixed 
attention upon a moving point, as well as the production 
of much finer lines. Lastly the pen should be used, but 
coarse pens are best at first. 

No movements of the fingers should be expected or 
allowed for several years. The whole arm in motion should 
produce the necessary shapes, and freedom and ease of 



POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 325 

movement are the ideals to be aimed at. These, together 
with precision, are sufficient to occupy six or seven years. 

The Style of Writing. 

The choice of the proper style of writing is important 
because the common injurious postures are connected, to 
some extent, with certain fashions of letter formation. It 
is convenient to divide the various scripts into the slanting, 
the intermediate, and the upright or vertical varieties. 

Slanting Style. 

In the slanting writing the letters have a slope of about 
52. In order that a proper view of the line to be followed 
by the writing may be obtained, it is necessary to place the 
paper to the right of the body and in an oblique position, so 
that the top and bottom of the paper are not parallel with 
the top and bottom of the desk. The head is also bent 
towards the left for the same purpose. Another explana- 
tion is that the eye more readily fallows vertical strokes 
than slanting ones, and by these manoeuvres the strokes 
which are slanting to the line on the paper are thereby made 
almost vertical to the eye. An additional reason is that by 
the usual method of holding it the fingers would obscure 
the tip of the pen altogether if the paper were placed 
squarely in front of the body. 

The result is that the right shoulder is raised, the spine 
is curved to the left, the eyes are at unequal distances from 
the writing, and there is additional muscular and nervous 
strain caused by the fact that the child is working up hill. 

The Intermediate Style. 

In this script the letters have a slant of 75. From a 
physiological point of view this is a great advance upon the 



326 POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 

slanting style, and has met with much favour in business 
circles. Unfortunately it possesses practically all the 
disadvantages, modilied in extent, which have been men- 
tioned in connection with the slanting script. 



The Vertical Style. 

This is the only possible style of writing if the child is 
to sit in a proper position. It has the following charac- 
teristics : 

(a) Vertical down strokes. 
(6) Short loops. 

(c) Round letters. 

(d) It is the only writing possible in a correct 
position. 

In its favour may be urged many points, the chief of 
which are : (1) That it is more legible than the slanting 
style, and so does not strain the eyes so much. (2) 
It is more easily learned by children. When children begin 
to write they usually make vertical strokes, and have to be 
taught, with difficulty, to acquire a slant. (3) The writing 
point is at equal distances from the two eyes, so that eye 
strain is again relieved. (4) It can be used by the pupil 
sitting squarely in the desk, upright, and with the paper 
parallel with the edges of the top of the desk. 

Holding the Pen. 

The old-fashioned way of holding the pen is shown in 
Fig. 134. If it is held in this manner it is impossible to 
write upon paper set squarely in front of the body, because 
the fingers altogether hide the tip of the pen. The result 
is that the improper conditions alreadv alluded to are 



POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 327 

assumed. Moreover this way of holding the pen is 
difficult for children to acquire, and is very fatiguing, 
partly owing to the fact that in this position the radius 
and the ulna are crossed. 

For vertical writing a considerable amount of individual 
freedom may be allowed the children, but the usual 
position is with the hand resting on its ulnar side, i.e. on 
the little finger and the side of the hand, so that the palm 
of the hand can be seen, while the penholder lies nearly in 




Fig 134. 

OLD-FA8HIONET) WAT OF HOLDING PgN. 

the depression between the index finger and the thumb, and 
points in a direction quite outside the right shoulder. 
When the hand is in this position the radius and ulna lie 
practically parallel, and no muscular effort is required to 
hold them so. The hand moves along on the outer side of 
the little finger, and the ulnar side of the hand. 



328 POSTtJRES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 

The Left Hand. 

In the ordinary slanting method of writing, with the pen 
held in the old-fashioned way, there is little for the left 
hand to do. The left hand and arm are left practically idle. 
As a result the left hand tends to be drawn towards the 




Fig. 135. 

PROPER WAT OF HOLDIKG PBN. 
Note position of hands and pose of shoulders. 

side, the head is bent to the left, and a position of 
exaggerated lateral curvature of the spine is assumed. 
Exercises for the left hand often afford great relief to the 
child, especially while in the early stages of learning to 
write. Writing exercises with the left hand will often 



POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 329 

cause a child to advance much more rapidly with its right- 
hand writing. While writing with the right hand the 
left should hold the pa.per on the desk. In order to give 
the left hand more active employment while learning to 
write it has been suggested that strips of paper 5 to 6 inches 
wide and 2 to 3 feet long should be used. The left hand is 




Fig. 136. 

GOOD POSITION IN ZERO DESK. 
This position is tiring because there is no support for the back. 

then constantly employed in moving the paper along so as 
to keep the writing directly in front. 

The Position for Writing. 

The paper should be placed directly in front of the child, 
with its edges parallel to the edges of the desk. It should 



330 POSTUBES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 

not exceed 5 J inches in width. The pupil sits squarely in 
front ; the forearms placed equally on the desk ; and the 
elbows at equal distances (about a hand's-breadth) from the 
sides. The feet should rest fully on the floor, and the top 
of the desk be drawn to a minus distance of about 3 inches. 
The desk of course must be adapted to the height of the 
child, or it will be impossible for such a position to be 
easily assumed. 

4. FOE STANDING. 

The position for standing should be modified according 
to the length of time that the child is kept in that position. 
For short periods the best position is shown in Fig. 137, 
where the heels are placed slightly apart and opposite each 
other, the weight being equally divided between the two 
legs. The whole body is symmetrically placed. The 
weight should be thrown slightly on the balls of the feet, the 
hips drawn back, the lumbar curve of the vertebral column 
accentuated, the head held well back with the chin drawn 
in, and the chest thrown forward. Unfortunately such an 
ideal position cannot be maintained for long periods, 
because both legs are kept under the same tension and 
both get tired together. In order to obtain muscular relief 
and change, the child often adopts the injurious position 
shown in Fig. 138. For longer periods the best position 
is shown in Figs. 139 and 140. Here the trunk of the 
body is in the~same position as in Fig. 137, but one foot 
is in advance of the other. The weight of the body is 
carried by the posterior leg, the knee of which is held 
rigid, while the muscles of the other leg are relaxed and at 
rest. The position is varied from time to time by placing 
the other foot in advance, and bringing the weight of the 
body upon the leg that has been rested. This position 
should not be exaggerated as shown in Fig. 141. 



POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 331 

General Bules about Postures. 

As a general rule girls are more liable to assume 
injurious postures than boys, and the results are also much 
more serious. Sitting with the knees crossed should not 





Fig. 137. 

POSITION FOR STANDING FOR 
SHORT PERIODS. 



Fig. 138. 



COMMON POSITION ASSUMED BY 
CHILDREN. 



be allowed, because of possible distortion of the pelvis. The 
practice of carrying a load of books in a satchel propped 
upon one hip is also bad, because it tends to pull down 



332 



POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 



one shoulder, curve the spine, and injuriously strain the 
pelvis. A common injurious position at home is shown 
in Fig. 142. 




Fig. 139. 

POSITION FOR LONOKR STANDING. 
'(Side View.) 



Fig. 140. 



POSITION FOR LONGER STANDING. 
(Back View.) 



It is usually necessary only to exercise vigilance over the 
postures assumed while the children are in the school or at 
home. When they are at play, and free to move when and 
how they like, there is very little likelihood of any injury 



POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 333 

being produced in this way. The greater the amount of 
time available for games in the open air the better for the 
child. Drill, especially for young children, is not advisable, 




Fig. 141. 

EXAGGERATED POSITION OFTEN ASSUMED BY CHILDREN, AND LATERALLY CURVING 
THE SPINE. 

as it rapidly produces a condition of mental and physical 
exhaustion. 

It should always be borne in mind that a child must 



334 



POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 



be injuriously affected if compelled to sit in a desk, how- 
ever well constructed the desk may be, beyond a short 
period. Young children should not be kept sitting for 
longer periods than 20 minutes, and for not more than one 
third of the total school hours. Short periods of sitting 
should be followed by intervals of activity twice as long 
out of the seat. These periods of activity should not be 




Fig. 142. 



Fig. 143. 



occupied by drill in any form, but certainly need not be 
devoted to play. 



PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 

The narrow view of the function of the schoolmaster is 
well exemplified in some schools, by the entire banishment 
of physical exercise from the rota of school-work. We 
send our children to school for the purpose of training 
them for the battle of life, which they will have to en- 
counter when they reach to man's estate. It is by the 



POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 335 

equal and continuous development of each and every part 
of the body that this battle will be fought with success, 
and if one part developes at the expense of another, or by 
its more rapid development puts a bar to the progress of 
the others, the subject of it is at disadvantage in his future 
struggles. Many a Cambridge wrangler and Oxford first- 
class man has found this out in after life. He is able to 
solve a problem in differential calculus, to make Latin 
verses, or to read a passage in any of the dead languages 
at sight, but he has not cultivated the talent of common- 
sense, or educated his muscles so that they can enable him 
to leap over some slight impediment in his path. He finds 
himself outstripped in the daily race by men whom he has 
been taught to despise, and who, in return, have a very 
small opinion of him and his mental power. The nerve 
force of thought in his brain has been developed at the 
expense of his motor power, and as the room for growth is 
limited, the latter is dwarfed and imperfect. 

Life is " organisation in action," and the various activi- 
ties of the body must be carried out with normal energy, 
and in a harmonious manner, if they are to be correct in 
their responses to any and every call that may be made 
upon them. Physical exercise is indispensable ; and it is 
quite impossible for the functions of respiration and circu- 
lation to be carried on in a proper manner if the muscular 
system is not developed, or if the material which is neces- 
sary for the formation of the muscle is not used up in its 
proper order. If the muscles are not used equally with 
the brain tissue, some used-up matter is kept back, and 
will sooner or later act as an impediment to proper brain 
work, by getting in the way of the latter when it requires 
all the room which ought to be at its command. The 
assimilative and disarranging processes of the body are 
greatly influenced by the activity or inactivity of the 



336 POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 

muscular system. Hence it follows that no school is pro- 
perly constituted which does not provide an exercise ground 
for its pupils, and make the cultivation of muscular force 
a part of its daily routine. This is not the place to deal 
with the general effects of exercise, but it will not be out of 
order to call to mind the fact that, the natural heat of the 
body being 98'4, it follows that something must be pro- 
duced in the blood which is the debris of the continuous 
fire that is always burning, and by means of which the 
natural heat of the body is kept up to its proper standard. 

There is also another aspect of the case : muscular tissue 
wastes during long-continued rest. Any person may find 
this out for himself if he notes his muscular power before 
and after a few days of enforced confinement in bed ; and 
there is no doubt also of the growth and increased strength 
of muscle by exercise. If any man changes his occupation, 
say from a clerk to a blacksmith, the comparison of power 
in the muscles of his arm at the end of a year will be 
found to efficiently prove this statement ; but if the black- 
smith gives up his anvil and takes to the pen, within a 
year the powerful deltoid muscles which he formerly 
possessed will be dwarfed and comparatively impotent. 
Let a man or a boy have sufficient intervals of rest be- 
tween his times of labour, and whether that labour is 
brain work or muscle work it will tend to increase the 
power of the organ exercised, and the action of the one 
will by its own work clear the blood from the debris which 
has been produced by the work of the other. 

The more powerful minds will be found among those men 
who do not neglect their muscular development; whilst 
the total neglect of mental work, which bodily labour 
sometimes compels the sons of toil to submit to, keeps 
them at a lower level in the scale of humanity than will be 
the case when both systems are allowed a chance by being 



POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 337 

worked alternately, as they ought to be in every well- 
ordered school. We must bear in mind that by exercise 
the individual fibres of a muscle increase in size. The 
contraction of the muscle is one of the means by which 
an ample supply of blood is brought for the nourishment 
of the new tissue. If exercise is not forthcoming, the 
tissue dwindles and becomes fatty in its character, loses 
its proper elasticity, and does not leave room for new cells 
to take its place, for it is not removed in the way that a 
regularly -exercised muscle is. (Carpenter.) 

There is no doubt whatever that in practically all the 
chief public schools the two extreme types are continually 
met. There are a number of lads who are encouraged to 
devote themselves to games in order to bring the school 
renown in the athletic world. Provided that the lad does 
sufficiently well there are often influences at work on his 
behalf, and instances are not uncommon of those who are 
by no means mentally distinguished being placed in 
positions that should be reserved for those who have at all 
events acquitted themselves creditably in mental contests. 
On the other hand the boys who show unusual brightness 
of intellect are encouraged to undertake excessive mental 
tasks, and are systematically " crammed " in order to 
advertise the school by winning some scholarship. A 
little more attention in both directions might be profitably 
given to the " average " boy. 

The judicious combination of exercise, rest, and sleep 
plays a very important part in the health of the individual. 
Lack of exercise is soon followed by atrophy, or wasting 
away of the parts that are not used. A muscle that is not 
exercised, but lies idle, soon wastes away and becomes 
useless. This is particularly noticeable in the case of a 
broken or paralysed limb. The lack of use soon produces 
wasting and loss of power of the limb. The brain also, 
PHY. HYG 22 



338 POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISED. 

when not exercised by study and reading, does not develop 
to its fullest possible extent. On the other hand, unless 
the exercise is combined with the proper amount of rest, 
the results are even more disastrous, as the body becomes 
overworked and exhausted. 

Exercise is necessary at all periods of life, but especially 
so during childhood and early manhood or womanhood. 
It is the duty of all parents to see that their children enter 
into the school games, and spend a great deal of time in 
the open air. Practically all schools have now adopted 
physical exercises as part of their curriculum in recognition 
of the importance of these to the children. In the case of 
adults the exercise that should be indulged in must depend 
upon the nature of the daily work. Thus, if a man is 
doing bodily work all day, his muscles have had quite 
sufficient exercise, and mental exercise is what he needs 
for his spare time. On the other hand, those whose occu- 
pation is sedentary, such as clerks, students, etc., need 
physical exercise in their spare time, in order to bring their 
muscular, circulatory, and respiratory systems to the proper 
pitch of development. 

For any beneficial result, the exercise taken must be 
systematic and regular, and not indulged in by fits and 
starts. By gradually and steadily increasing the work 
done by them, a set of muscles may be greatly increased 
in size, but there is a limit to this increase, and if the work 
be carried to excess the muscles will begin to waste away. 
Care should be taken to give every muscle of the body its 
necessary exercise. Many of our sports are faulty in 
leaving most of the muscles idle. The best real exercise 
for all the muscles is probably obtained by boxing, lawn 
tennis, and Eugby football. 

Violent exercise should never be taken without proper 
training. By training, we do not mean the old-fashioned' 



POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 339 

idea of feeding a man on limited rations of half-raw meat, 
but simply an outdoor life, with plenty of good, nourishing 
food, and no lack of exercise for all the muscles. Violent 
exercise, without proper training of this kind, is likely to 
lead to most disastrous results, the commonest of which is 
heart disease resulting from overstrain. 

Some of the physiological effects of exercise deserve 
special mention. We have already mentioned that the 
muscles are increased in size and are rendered capable of 
doing more work. By exercise they are also brought more 
under the control of the will. The first effect of exercise 
is, perhaps, the quickening of the heart beat and the rate 
of respiration. The heart beats more rapidly and more 
forcibly, causing an increased flow of blood through the 
blood vessels all over the body. If the exercise be sudden 
and violent, the heart may be incapable of meeting this 
sudden demand upon it, and the valves may be rendered 
incompetent, giving rise to heart disease. But by gradu- 
ally increasing the exercise the heart is strengthened and 
the coats of the arteries are made stronger and healthier. 

Respiration is also quickened by exercise. The amount 
of air taken in at each inspiration is increased, and larger 
quantities of water and carbon dioxide are given out in the 
expired air. Thus, a man at rest draws into his lungs 
each minute about 480 cubic inches of air, but if walking 
at the rate of three miles per hour he takes in 1550 cubic 
inches of air, and if he increases his rate to six miles per 
hour, the amount of air that he inspires is raised to 3250 
cubic inches. 

The skin acts freely while exercise is being taken. The 
blood vessels surrounding the sweat glands are distended 
with blood, and the secretion of sweat is increased. In 
this way an extra quantity of waste matter is removed 
from the body by the skin. 



340 POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 

Other effects of exercise include the exhilaration and 
strengthening of the nervous system, the improvement of 
the appetite and digestion, and the stimulation of the 
kidneys and bowels, thereby aiding the elimination of 
waste matters from the body. 

For the scholars in our schools there is little to choose 
between the various games. Cricket, football, rounders, 
rackets, tennis, fives, leapfrog, hopscotch, blindman's buff, 
skipping, swimming, and many others may be said to be 
almost equally good for children. Any game that organises 
children to perform free and natural movements in the 
open air or in well ventilated rooms should be encouraged. 
All that the child requires is to be taught a few games. 
Most healthy children may be safely left to themselves 
after that, so far as active supervision is concerned. A 
child who has had the proper amount of both mental and 
physical exercise during the day will sleep soundly at 
night, and will be completely refreshed after its proper 
night's rest. 

One of the natural results of the increased circulation 
followed by increased secretion and evaporation which are 
caused by exercise is an increased desire for water. This 
should always be gratified, and children should be en- 
couraged to drink freely, particularly after exercise. Ice- 
cold drinks should be avoided, but it is not dangerous to 
drink cold liquids while the body is heated provided it is 
taken in sips. A plentiful supply of water is needed by 
the body to dissolve the waste products and to convey 
them in the dissolved condition to the excretory organs. 

The Recess. 

In order that physical exercise may be possible there 
should be at least a fifteen minute recess in the middle of 
the morning and also of the afternoon school. This is 



POSTURES. 1'HYSICAL EXERCISES. 341 

the absolute minimum, and twenty minutes is desirable in 
every school. These intervals should be fully occupied by 
simple games that can be commenced instantly by groups 
of the scholars, and it should be the duty of the teachers 
to organise some such system. Most of the children in 
our schools are taught no games properly, and the result 
is that the precious moments of the inadequate recess are 
wasted, except that the children are in the open air. 
Proper activity during these times will tend to counteract 
the tendency towards malformations which improper 
postures have commenced. The deeper breathing purifies 
the blood and removes some of the ill effects of insufficient 
ventilation, and in every way the recess should be 
regarded as the absolutely unalterable part of the school 
time-table. 

The Games. 



But it must not be thought that these intervals of 
recess give sufficient physical exercise for the children. 
The systematic organisation of school sports should 
include the summer evenings and the two half-holidays 
for secondary schools, and the evenings and Saturday 
mornings for primary schools. This organisation, if 
expected from any of the teaching staff, ought to be 
rewarded by proper payment. It is no exaggeration to 
claim that if any town or district devoted proper attention 
to this subject in its primary schools there would be an 
immediate improvement in the mental, moral, and physical 
condition of the children, and benefits would be conferred 
that would be lifelong. All teachers of experience are 
agreed upon this. In those schools which muster a team 
for cricket, football, jumping, or swimming competitions, 
the effect upon those children who are fortunate enough 
to get selected for such training is most marked. The 



342 POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 

labour involved is not excessive. The energy of the 
British child is usually naturally exuberant, and simply 
requires directing along the right lines. A training in 
games and school contests tends to give perception and 
judgment, courage and skill, coolness and quick decision. 
The benefits of these in after life, particularly if they are 
not conferred by the sacrifice of proper mental training, 
are incalculable. 

Dr. Dukes says : " No question in the training of the 
young is of more general importance than the mode of 
employing the out-of -school hours. Are the young as fully 
and wisely occupied in that time as during the hours of 
work ? If not, moral discipline must be absent. Do the 
boys take regular and vigorous exercise? If not, no 
sound health can result. Is their freedom from work a 
period of cheerful recreation, and constant lively occupa- 
tion; or is every hour a time of weariness and idle 
lounging ? If the latter, then no guarantee for conduct 
exists, and the character and tone of the boys must 
deteriorate." 

The essential idea should be that all must play. Among 
primary schools at present, even under the best conditions, 
there are a few scholars selected for the teams and all the 
attention is devoted to them Also the necessary time 
and trouble are given quite voluntarily by usually one 
enthusiastic and good-natured member of the staff. The 
education authorities quite fail to recognise that physical 
education demands quite as much deliberate study, care, 
and method as mental training, and that it confers 
qualities which are at least as valuable in after life as 
those obtained by usual "education" as we know it at 
present. 

It should be remembered that all violent forms of 
exercise should be discouraged among girls. I am con- 



POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 343 

vinced that violent exercise at hockey or tennis is 
calculated to produce injury. The best and most uniform 
results are obtained by organising the simpler and less 
exhausting games among girls. 

A gymnasium is not desirable for primary schools. It 
has many advantages for a secondary school, but it must 
not be allowed to take the place of games. In fact the 
use of the gymnasium should be mainly limited to the 
winter, after dark, and on wet days. Like drill it is 
not recreation, but merely a change of work, and the 
exercise of the young must be recreation as well as 
exercise. 

Before dismissing the subject of physical exercises and 
games it is necessary to point out that there should be a 
physical examination of all scholars on entrance to the 
school. This should be carried out as carefully and as 
thoroughly as though for life assurance. Unless this is 
done those children who are most in need of physical 
education may receive grievous injury by indiscriminate; 
unregulated, and unwise exercise. 



344 POSTURES. .PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 

BREATHING EXEECISES. 

The well-known injunction, " Shut your mouth ; keep 
your mouth shut," should be one of the golden rules of 
childhood. Eespiration can only be carried out properly 
when the air enters through the nose. A vast number of 
children, however, habitually breathe through the mouth. 
Many of these are unable to use the nose because it is 
partly or wholly blocked by adenoid vegetations, attacks of 
catarrh, or some other cause. Such children are usually 
of low vitality, and they soon give up all attempt to 
breathe through the nose. Where there is a mechanical 
obstruction it is obvious that breathing exercises are of 
little or no use until the obstruction is removed. On the 
other hand there are a great many children, and probably 
a rapidly increasing number, who have simply acquired the 
bad habit of mouth breathing, and to this bad habit may 
probably be traced the increase in the numbers of adenoid 
children. Mouth breathing as a bad habit is often acquired 
by weakly children, and in such cases it is practically 
always followed by nasal obstruction. 

Whether the mouth breathing be due to a mechanical 
obstruction or to a bad habit it has a great and far-reach- 
ing effect upon the health, development, activity, and 
usefulness of the child throughout life. Lack of use is 
always followed by arrest in development, and as the nasal 
passages are mainly for respiration it necessarily follows 
that those regions will not take part in the general growth 
of the child if they are no longer used. The respiratory 
system as a whole remains undeveloped owing to partial 
use only, and the whole body and life of the child is neces- 
sarily affected. "A debilitated child, with low vitality, 
impaired energy, and lax tissues, will, if nasal obstruction 
be added to the other defects by which it is handicapped, 



POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 345 

find it too much trouble to breathe fully. It gives up 
running or playing games which would compel it to 
expand its chest ; it muddles through life at a low level of 
respiratory exchange." (British Medical Journal, 1905.) 
Weakly children of this type in fact breathe almost wholly 
by the contraction of the diaphragm, and where these 
respiratory peculiarities are combined with softness of the 
bones, as in rickety children, the contraction of the dia- 
phragm will usually cause a well-marked depression, 
running outwards and downwards on each side of the chest 
wall, and marking the attachments of the muscle to the 
ribs. 

Breathing exercises will be found very useful to occupy 
an odd minute or two between lessons. Of course they 
are useless, or nearly so, if the air is impure, so that all 
windows should be widely open a,t the time. No child 
can breathe properly when in a stooping position. The 
position of the shoulder-blades is important ; they should 
be forced downwards and towards each other. A good 
plan is to teach the children to sit and stand with the 
hands firmly held on the hips, the shoulders pulled back 
and held steady, and the shoulder-blades pulled downwards 
and onwards. The child should then be taught to take 
slow steady breaths through the nose, the mouth being 
firmly closed, raising the chest to accommodate the extra 
quantity of air, and keeping the shoulders fixed. The 
object should not necessarily be to increase the permanent 
growth of the chest, but to make as great as possible the 
difference between the fullest expansion and the greatest 
contraction. The most vital measurement is the differ- 
ence between the full and the empty chest. The power of 
emptying the chest, as well as the capacity for increased 
expansion, will be found to improve wonderfully with a 
little practice. The above mode of breathing should be 



POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 

practised several times daily, but not for long at a time. 
It will be found, in a large number of cases, to induce a 
habit of calm, deep, steady breathing, and a marked differ- 
ence will be noticeable in the shape of the chest, as well as 
in the general bearing and health. Such exercises, in fact, 
if generally and thoroughly carried out in every school, and 
by all children, would do more than anything else to cause 
a rapid diminution in the number of cases of adenoids in 
children and consumption in young adults, and, in addition, 
practically wipe away such complaints as indigestion and 
anaemia. 

The following exercises are recommended by a writer in 
the British Medical Journal, 1905 : 

" 1. Extend the hands and stretch the arms forwards 
from the shoulders, leaving about a foot between the hands, 
which should be turned with the palms inwards and fingers 
stretched out straight. Slowly move the arms backwards 
as far as they will go (while deeply inspiring), and slowly 
bring them forwards until they are in the same position 
as at starting (while deeply expiring) . Eepeat this from 
three to six times. 

"2. Hold the hands down with the palms against the 
legs. Raise them with palms inwards (inspiring), and 
when they are immediately above the head turn the palms 
outward and slowly bring them down to the sides (ex- 
piring). Repeat from three to six times. 

" 3. Hold the hands against the thorax, with the fingers 
pointing inwards and touching back to back. Then with 
a swift movement swing the arms out as far as they will 
go (while inspiring). Begin again (expiring), and repeat 
half-a-dozen times. 

"4. Keep the arms down, the palms touching the sides, 
slowly turn the palms outwards as far as they will go 
(inspiring), and slowly bring them back to the sides 



POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 347 

(expiring). This may be done six or eight times. This 
exercise, apparently so simple, expands the chest and 
presses together the shoulder-blades." 

It would be difficult to improve upon this simple and 
valuable set of exercises. 

It may be useful to reproduce here the syllabus of 
breathing exercises recommended by the Inter- depart- 
mental Committee on the Model Course of Physical Exer- 
cises as presented to Parliament : 

DEEP BREATHING EXERCISES. 

These exercises are of great value, and should form part of the 
daily training of every scholar. It is of great importance that the 
correct method of nasal breathing should be taught from the begin- 
ning of school life. 

1. For Infants, a simple imitative exercise is the most easily 
acquired. 

The infants, standing or sitting, and watching the teacher, place 
the left hand over the pit of the stomach and breathe in as 
she does, noticing the hand rise during inhalation. The 
child then breathes out slowly, the hand at the same time 
sinking. On each occasion the teacher must watch the 
class carefully, and note that all the mouths are firmly 
closed, and that all breathing is through the nostrils only. 

This exercise should be repeated about 6 times at least twice 
daily. 

2. For Older Pupils. 

The teacher, starting from the position of attention, should see 
that all the mouths are firmly shut ; then on the command 
Breathe In (slowly given) instruct the pupils to breathe in 
slowly and deeply through the nostrils only, until the chest 
is fully expanded ; then on the command Breathe Out 
(slowly given) to breathe out quietly and steadily ; this 
exercise should be repeated about 10 times at least twice 
daily. When the exercise is repeated the commands In, 
Out only should be used. 



348 POBTUBES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 

Note. Care must be taken that during inhalation the head and 
chest be not thrown too far back, nor the abdomen thrust forward. 

When the exercise has been thoroughly acquired, it can be 
gradually combined with the slow arm movements, which 
bring into play the auxiliary muscles of respiration, 

3. Combined Breathing and Slow Arm Exercises. 

When a combined movement is used, the caution, With Deep 
Breathing, should always precede the command for the arm 
movements, e.g. With Deep Breathing, Arms Sideways 
Raise. The arm movements employed should follow the 
rhythm of normal respiration (inhalation, exhalation 
pause; inhalation, exhalation pause), etc., and the breath- 
ing act must not be made to follow any artificial or arbitrary 
rhythm like that of music. It is also impossible that all 
members of a class should do the movements in absolute 
unison, for no two persons breathe naturally exactly alike. 

The most suitable arm movements to combine with the deep 
breathing exercises are: 

WITH DEEP BREATHING ARMS SIDEWAYS RAISING. 



Raise the arms sideways in line with the shoulders, 
fingers extended, and palms downward, and at the 
same time breathe in slowly through the nostrils 
until the chest is fully expanded. 



With Deep 
Breathing, 
Arms Side- 
ways Raise 
(One). 

( Breathe out naturally, and at the same time lower 
"**' 1 the arms to the sides. 

(a) This exercise may also be combined with Heels Raising, the 
commands being With Deep Breathing, Arms Sideways Raising, 
Heels and Arms Raise (One) ; Lower (Two). 

WITH DEEP BREATHING ARMS SIDEWAYS AND UPWARD RAISING 
(To be done as a continuous movement.) 

Raise the arms as above, keeping the arms 



With Deep 
Breathing, 
Arms Side- 
ways and 
Upward 
Raise (One). 



straight and well back, turn the palms smartly up- 
ward, and immediately raise the arms until they are 
vertical above the shoulders, and at the same time 
breathe in slowly through the nostrils until the chest 
L is fully expanded. 



POSTURES. PHYSICAL EXERCISES. 349 

, m . C Breathe out naturally, and at the same time lower 
Lower (Two) \ . 

(. the arms sideways and downward. 

(a) This exercise may also be combined with Heels Raising, the 
commands being With Deep Breathing, Arms Sideways and Upward, 
Reels and Arms Raise (One) ; Lower (Two). 



WITH DEEP BREATHING ARMS CIRCLING. 

Raise the arms forward to the level of the 



With Deep 
Breathing, 
Arms Circling 
Raise (One). 



shoulders, palms inward, elbows and fingers straight, 
arms parallel, continue the movement upwards till 
the arms are vertical, and, at the same time, breathe 
in slowly through the nostrils until the chest is fully 



.expanded. 
C Breathe out naturally, and at the same time lower 

the arms sideways, first to the level of the shoulders, 
Lower (Two) J keeping palms upward and arms well back, then 

turning the palms downward and lower the arms to 
l^the sides. 

(a) This exercise may also be combined with Heels Raising, the 
commands being With Deep Breathing, Arms Circling, Heels and 
Arms Raise (One) ; Lower (Two). 

N.B. Breathing Exercises should always be taken at the end of a 
physical training lesson, in order to prepare for rest, and also to aid 
in the elimination of the carbonic acid accumulated by the repeated 
contractions of the muscles during the lesson. They may also with 
advantage be taken in the course of Physical Training lessons or 
other school work. 

In connection with these exercises the attention of the teacher is 
specially directed to the fact that the object of such exercises is the 
healthy functioning of the lungs, not mere increase of chest capacity. 
The vital measurement is not chest capacity simply, but difference 
between the full and the empty chest. 



CHAPTER XIV. 

THE DAY'S WOEK. 
FATIGUE. 

THERE are two factors in fatigue, the muscular and the 
nervous. A muscle, as everyone knows, becomes fatigued 
after a longer or shorter period of activity. The cause of 
this fatigue is the production of poisonous waste materials 
in the muscle. These are produced, during the activity of 
the muscle, at a greater rate than they can be got rid of, and 
when they accumulate beyond a certain point the muscle 
becomes incapable of further useful work. By a period of 
rest the muscle can be restored to its original condition 
because the waste products are rapidly eliminated during 
repose. Probably in just the same way the brain be- 
comes fatigued by prolonged mental work. Toxic bodies 
are produced in the brain during the period of activity, and 
when they accumulate beyond a certain point further useful 
mental work becomes an impossibility. In children the 
channels for the elimination of these waste materials are 
but poorly developed, so that mental fatigue comes on very 
rapidly. 

The whole of the mental apparatus is most truly rested 
by sleep, but, unless the fatigue is so great as to amount to 
exhaustion, there are other means of removing the poisons 
that have been produced in the brain during a lesson of 

undue length. Within reasonable limits the muscular and 

350 



THE DAY'S WORK. 351 

the nervous activities may be regarded as complementary, 
the parts of the brain that have been used chiefly during 
the lesson being best rested by the activity of the muscles, 
i.e. by physical exercise or play. The effect of the exercise 
in increasing the rapidity of respiration and circulation 
still further tends to hasten the removal of the toxic bodies 
from the brain. 

It should be remembered that the child becomes men- 
tally fatigued rather by the length of the separate lesson 
than by the length of the day's work. For proper bene- 
ficial and useful work the child's lessons must be short and 
must be separated by intervals of play. 

Many observers, as a result of investigations carried out 
by them, have pointed out that the length of time during 
which the attention can be fixed on a lesson is very short 
in early childhood and gradually increases with age. The 
results of their observations were as follows : 

At 6 years the attention can be fixed for 15 minutes. 
From 7 to 10 20 

,, 10 12 25 

12 16 30 

These figures mean that if the attention of the child 
has been concentrated upon mental work for the above 
periods the limit of good work has been reached, and if 
the same lesson is continued it will tend to produce mental 
fatigue, and the children will gain no benefit from further 
instruction. The time of the teacher and the children is 
wasted by long lessons. At the end of one of the above 
proper periods of instruction there should be a minute 
devoted to simple physical movements or breathing 
exercises, and then a second lesson given of the same 
length, the subject being as great a mental change from 
the first as possible. After the second of these lessons 



352 THE DAY'S WORK. 

there should be a period of physical exercise in the form 
of play. 

It does not appear to be fully appreciated that the time 
during which the child is attending school is even more 
vitally important to its physical well-being than to its 
mental development. Any hindrance to the process of 
physical development during these years can never be com- 
pensated. The seeds of tuberculosis and diseases of the 
nervous, digestive, and circulatory systems are sown in 
many instances during school life. No wonder that 
children "outgrow their strength " when the demands that 
school life makes upon the body leave no balance for its 
proper development. All experts are agreed that the best 
work is got from the scholars by short and varied lessons. 
No lesson should exceed half an hour's duration, and after 
two such lessons there should be fifteen minutes' play. In 
this way there would be far more real working time in the 
school day than there is at present, and the results would 
more than justify the change. 

There is a great deal of evidence that the school work 
of scholars is always best after intervals of rest, and 
steadily deteriorates after a certain period of constant work 
has elapsed. Usually the best work of the week is done on 
Monday and Tuesday, and on Tuesday afternoon the work 
begins to deteriorate. If there is a Wednesday half -holiday 
there will be an improvement on Thursday morning, and so 
on. For this reason it is an advantage to have a half-day's 
holiday on Wednesday and Saturday, instead of the whole 
day on Saturday. 

The best work of the day is done during the first two 
hours, and the afternoon's work is always inferior. At all 
events this is the experience of most people who are 
actually engaged in educational work, although a certain 
amount of evidence has been brought forward against 



THE DAY'S WORK. 353 

such a view. For this reason the afternoon is best occupied 
by those subjects which produce the least fatigue, such as 
history, literature, and languages. It cannot be too often 
repeated that gymnastics and drill produce so much phy- 
sical and mental fatigue that the work done afterwards 
is almost useless. No mental work should be attempted 
for at least half an hour after a meal. 

Fatigue comes on with increased rapidity if the sur- 
roundings are injurious. Bad ventilation, bad lighting, 
improper desks and injurious attitudes are common causes 
of rapid fatigue in schools. If, in addition, the child 
arrives at school suffering from want of sleep and 
insufficient food, it is wonderful how the teachers manage 
to get any real mental work done at all. If it is done, 
what a price does the child pay for its poor little stock 
of knowledge ! 



THE DAILY TIME-TABLE. 

The arrangement of the time-table has been mentioned 
above in connection with the subject of fatigue. According 
as the subjects are arranged it may contribute towards the 
production of fatigue or help to obviate it. The daily 
programme should be so arranged as to engage successively 
different kinds of mental activity. The best work is done 
in the morning when the children are fresh, and so the 
most trying and fatiguing work should be taken then. 
During the first part of the day the children think better 
and quicker, their memory is better, and they more quickly 
recover when fatigued than at any other time. Arithmetic 
and mathematics are therefore justifiably attempted the 
first thing in the morning. The arrangement of the other 
subjects may be left to the judgment of the teacher, but 
PHY. HYG. 23 



354 THE DAY'S WORK. 

care should be taken to make each subject as widely 
different as possible from the one before. The less fati- 
guing subjects should be reserved for afternoon. 

The minimum times set apart for games should be 
twenty minutes in the middle of the morning, and the 
same interval in the afternoon. Better results would pro- 
bably be obtained by having an interval of play after each 
hour or hour and a half of work. For young children 
under 9 years of age the ordinary school day of about 5 
hours is simply cruelty and does an infinite amount of 
mental and physical harm. It has been proved over and 
over again that the best educational results are obtained 
by much shorter hours of school werk, and much longer 
periods of outdoor exercise than are usual in most schools. 
The importance of the fact justifies its continued repetition, 
because education authorities at present appear to have 
quite failed to grasp this simple but fundamental truth. 
The experiment conducted by Mr. Charles Paget, M.P., is 
well known. Not being satisfied with the progress of the 
boys in the school on his estate he divided the school into 
two similar sections. One section continued the ordinary 
school work in the usual school hours, but the other 
devoted half the usual time to school work and the re- 
mainder to outdoor work in a garden. Those boys who 
were employed half their school time in the garden were 
found to excel the others in every respect. 

Similar evidence is given by Sir E. Chad wick, who found 
that the children in half-time schools were ahead of those 
who attended the whole day. 

For older children, of course, longer hours of work are 
necessary, and will do no harm, but many children arrive 
at the age of twelve or thirteen suffering mentally and 
physically from the effects of injudicious methods of 
education during their earlier years. 



THE DAY'S WORK. 355 

Dr. Clement Dukes gives the following table of the hours 
of school work suitable for each year : 

Ages. Hours of work. 

From 5 to 6 years 6 per week 

M o ,, / ,, y ,, ,, 

7 8 12 

; , 8 9 15 ,, ,, 

9 10 18 

10 11 21 

11 12 25 

12 13 30 

13 14 35 

The same writer very wisely advocates a reduction of these 
hours for boys between 13 and 16 years and girls about 
12 and 13 years in those cases where growth is proceeding 
very rapidly. 

Education of Girls. 

The injury done to boys and girls during " preparation 
for examinations " is now beginning to be recognised, but 
the terrible risks in the case of girls is not yet appreciated. 
The " higher education of girls," consisting as it usually 
does of several years' cramming for examinations, often in 
subjects utterly uncongenial to the feminine mind, is an 
unmitigated evil, and often results in a complete break- 
down. A few exceptional brains can manage to acquire 
the necessary examination tricks in a short time, and some 
of these cases appear to survive the ordeal unscathed, but 
for the more numerous class who find it necessary to grind 
away incessantly in order to get up to the examination 
standard the process is injurious and mind- warping. 
When, in addition to this direct mental injury, one re- 
members that these processes are at work usually just at 



356 THE DAY'S WORK. 

the time when the body is finishing its physical develop- 
ment, and when it is being decided whether the body shall 
be normal and strong or abnormal and weak, there is 
little cause for surprise that education is at last making 
its first feeble efforts to dissociate itself from forced work 
for examinations. 

"I would urge," says Dr. Clement Dukes, "that the 
education of growing girls should not be acquired at the 
expense of motherhood : we do not want crammed heads, 
but strong well-made bodies, fitted for Nature's require- 
ments. There is no sphere for the girl which can excel 
that which comprises the virtues of motherhood ; and if 
teachers and parents were more alive to their duties, and 
would see that education consisted more in training the 
girl for the beneficent occupation of home-maker, what a 
vast amount of happiness and usefulness would be en- 
gendered ! Mental powers too highly developed in. women 
involve a physiological cost, which her feminine organisa- 
tion will not sustain without injury more or less profound. 
"It is more essential for a nation to produce vigorous 
offspring, than to educate girls to the highest standard. 
By the highest physical education girls can be rendered 
strong, comely, and well proportioned; while by the 
highest mental culture (without this physical basis) they 
may be transformed into mere ' blue stockings ' or neurotics, 
or a combination of both." 

Such vital problems as physical degeneration, the de- 
creasing birth rate, and the increase in lunacy and in 
neurotic conditions do not appear to have yet been 
popularly associated with the modern education of girls. 
Yet it is a possible association of cause and effect, and one 
that is well worth consideration by those who have at 
heart the well-being of the race, and who are seeking an 
explanation of these serious developments. 



THE DAY'S WORK. 357 

With reference to over-pressure in mental work it is 
impossible to improve upon the words of Sir Crichton 
Browne : " It has often occurred to me that if educa- 
tionalists could peep through a little hole in the skull, and 
see the living, throbbing brain, and realise that it is a pulpy 
organ of about the consistence of calf 's-foot jelly ; and if 
they could look at the minutest shred of it under the 
microscope and admire one little galaxy out of the millions 
of starry cells that it contains, lying scattered amongst 
the strands and sources of its fibres ' like a swarm of fireflies 
tangled in a silver braid,' if they could, as physiologists 
can, picture to themselves the functional activity of the 
brain now, as, at times of ease and abandonment, skim- 
mer ing over its surface from point to point; now, as at 
periods of calm and connected thought, localised into a 
steady glow in certain regions ; and now, again, as in 
moments of intense mental application, concentrated on 
one spot into a spark of surpassing brightness if our 
educators could do all this, and if they could become 
practically acquainted with the brain, they would, I think, 
be more careful in the handling of it than they sometimes 
are, and be a little less ready to deny that there is any 
danger of exerting overpressure on this delicate structure." 

The brilliant boys at school are rarely successes in after 
life. The early mental overstrain either produces sufficient 
physical injury to handicap them heavily afterwards, or 
else causes them to rapidly reach their limit of mental 
development. 

SIGNS AND SYMPTOMS OF OVERWORK. 

Overwork as a rule quickly produces easily recognised 
effects upon the young body and mind. Unfortunately 
such effects are only too commonly found in many of the 



358 THE DAY'S WORK. 

secondary schools and colleges. In such cases the skin 
acquires an unhealthy appearance, dark rings appear .round 
the eyes, and the scholar either becomes unnaturally rest- 
less and excitable, or unduly lethargic and dull. 

Growth. 

The growth is often arrested under such circumstances. 
Any child who fails to increase its weight regularly should 
be regarded as ailing. In fact, no stronger proof of its 
ill-health could be forthcoming. Occasionally the explana- 
tion is that the amount of food is insufficient in quantity, 
but more often it is the fact that the child is failing to digest 
the food supplied. Constipation, with its accompanying 
foul breath and loss of appetite, is a common result of over - 
work. By carefully noting the height and weight of every 
scholar three times a year it is possible to obtain a con- 
siderable amount of information as to their general well- 
being. The following table shows the average heights and 
weights at different ages : 



Boys. 


Girls. 


Age. 


Height. 


Weight. 


Height. 


Weight. 


5 ... 


41-2 ins. 


... 40-5 Ibs. 


... 41-0 ins. 


... 39-6 Ibs. 


6 ... 


43-9 


... 44-8 


... 43-0 


... 42-8 


7 ... 


45-9 


... 494 


... 45-0 


... 47-0 


8 ... 


47-4 


... 54-4 


... 47-0 


... 52-1 ., 


9 ... 


49-7 


... 59-8 


... 49;0 


... 56-3 


10 ... 


51-7 


... 66-4 


... 51-2 


... 62-2 


11 ... 


53-5 


... 71-1 


... 533 


... 68-5 


12 ... 


54-9 


... 76-8 


... 55-8 


... 77-3 


13 ... 


57-1 


... 83-7 


... 57-9 


... 87-8 


14 ... 


59-6 


... 93-5 


.'.. 59-9 


... 97-6 


15 ... 


62-3 


...104-9 


... 61-0 


...105-4 


16 . 


04- 7 , 


..120-0 , 


. 61-7 , 


..112-4 , 



THE DAY'S WORK. 359 

The above figures are averages of a large number of 
statistics. It should be remembered that there are varia- 
tions in weight according to social conditions and surround- 
ings. The following table shows such variations between 
11 and 12 years of age : 

Average 
Class. Age. Height. 

Public School ... 11 to 12 ... 54'98 

Agriculture ... ... ,.. 53*01 

Factory ... ... 51'56 

Industrial School ... ... 50'02 

The above table shows that roughly there is a growth 
of about two inches per year. Also that between 11 and 
13 years in boys, and 9 and 10 in girls, there is a curious 
retardation in growth. At these ages the children do not 
appear to be doing so well as at other ages. In boys at 16 
and girls at 13 growth is going on at its maximum rate, 
and at these ages it is well if the mental and physical 
activities are brought to a minimum. 

Chest Development. 

A systematic record of chest measurements is even more 
valuable. If a child's chest shows no increase in size in 
six months it should be medically examined. Probably no 
physical factor is under such control as the chest measure- 
ment. Every child's chest can be developed to a fair 
standard by proper breathing and physical exercises. Over- 
worji usually causes shallow breathing and consequently an 
ill-developed chest. 

Other Effects. 

Among other effects of overwork may be mentioned the 
dull, lifeless appearance, the inelastic gait, the flabby and 



360 

wasted muscles, and the various nervous conditions. The 
nervous evidences are very numerous, and include sleepless- 
ness, bad dreams, somnambulism, headaches, starting and 
talking in sleep, hysteria, St. Vitus' dance, irritability, 
twitchings of muscles, and many other ill effects. Mental 
perversion is also common, and there is occasionally a total 
change in the moral nature of the child. Many of the 
above effects, unless quickly recognised and arrested, 
cause life-long misery and suffering. 



EXAMINATIONS. 

Much has been written on this subject. Most of the 
"experts on education," whose opinions are listened to 
with such reverence, have never had any real experience 
in teaching a large class of children. Periodical examina- 
tions are necessary and useful in order to test the progress 
of the scholar and the efficiency of the teacher. The 
examinations should be fairly conducted and the questions 
asked should be reasonable. The standard required also 
ought not to be excessive. Everyone who has had much 
experience in examinations has met that examiner whose 
idea of " examining "is to find out what the candidate 
does not know, instead of ascertaining how much he does 
know. Competitive examinations as at present conducted, 
whatever may be the necessity for them, are unmitigated 
evils both from an educational standpoint and also 
because of the enormous damage they do to the average 
candidate. One of the results of them is the evolution of 
the " examination expert," as he (or she) might be called. 
Such scholars early acquire the knack of absorbing 
knowledge from an examination point of view, and readily 
grasp the fact that the method of presenting the matter 
is of as much importance as the matter itself. These 



THE DAY'S WORK. 361 

candidates are rarely injured by the cramming process, 
and they succeed brilliantly in school examinations, but, 
curiously enough, they are rarely heard of afterwards. On 
the other hand the examinations often severely and per- 
manently injure great numbers of scholars in secondary 
schools. The fault is not with the system of examination, 
but because there is no proper control over the methods of 
preparing candidates for them. Competition of all kinds 
is healthy and desirable, but when candidates are crammed 
and overworked by attempting to do twelve months' work in 
six, or less, a certain number of disasters is inevitable. At 
all events there should be an invariable rule, from which no 
exception should be allowed under any circumstances what- 
ever, that no boy should take part in any competitive exami- 
nation during his sixteenth and no girl during her thirteenth 
or fourteenth year. 

HOME WORK. 

If good work has been done during the school day there 
should be no need for work in the evening in the case of 
children under eleven or twelve years old. After that age a 
certain small amount of home work may be required, but it 
should be always restricted in amount and of a definite 
character, such as working a few mathematical examples the 
methods for which have been thoroughly learned at school, 
or committing to memory a short piece of prose or poetry. 
The work set should not present any difficulty to the 
scholars. Nothing should be set which will involve more 
than an hour's work at most, and it must not need much 
reading. To use the already overtired and overstrained 
eye, in indifferent artificial light, in still further struggles 
with the type of the average school book is to convert a 
possible into a probable disaster. Constructive manual 
work has not such great disadvantages as home work. 



362 THE DAY'S WORK. 

Everyone who has had educational experience realises 
that the work in the average school is not so continuous in 
character as it might be. There are slack times which 
must be made up for by periods of overwork, and unfor- 
tunately the usual time for setting large amounts of home 
work is just when there is extra pressure being exerted 
during school hours. If the work in school is done 
thoroughly throughout the year there should be no need 
for any work out of school hours. 

HOLIDAYS AND HOLIDAY TASKS. 

The present average elementary school holidays are fairly 
well arranged and of the right length. The holidays of 
secondary schools are undoubtedly too long and are the 
chief cause of the cramming that may go on during the 
term. Any holiday of a greater length than four weeks 
should be considered too long. The aim of educationalists 
for the future should be to increase the number of working 
days in secondary schools and thus make it possible to 
abolish home work and holiday tasks. The holidays should 
be real. If holiday tasks are set the holiday is merely 
make-believe, and if the holidays are so long that they 
cannot be spared entirely for real cessation of study they 
should be curtailed and the proper school work begun 
earlier. On the other hand there is no objection to 
sensible encouragement of the scholars to devote themselves 
to some pursuit or hobby during the holidays. Nothing 
can be said against encouragement being given to the 
scholars to make collections of moths or insects, wild 
flowers, etc., and fossils or minerals. Among boys with a 
liking for wood work or metal work the idea of returning 
to school with specimens of such work should be fostered. 
AIL these tasks will do good, and the children will return 



THE DAY'S WORK. 363 

to school all the better and fresher if they have failed to 
devote a moment of the holiday to ordinary school work. 
Before leaving the subject of holidays it is important to 
mention the common form of holiday torture that is often 
inflicted upon children by well-meaning parents in the 
form of " musical education." Undoubtedly a great deal 
of harm is done to boys and girls by insisting upon set 
times of " practising " being observed when the child ought 
either to be resting the intellectual centres by means of 
sleep, or exercising its motor centres by physical activity. 



CHAPTER XV. 



ACCIDENTS AND EMERGENCIES. 
WOUNDS. 

MINOR wounds, such as a simple abrasion of the skin 
caused by a child falling on gravel, should always be care- 
fully cleaned with cold water and then bandaged. Do not 
bandage too tightly, and remember that the essential 
condition for the successful treatment of wounds is 
absolute cleanliness. In cases where the wound is at all 
severe it is best to send at once for medical aid. 

In cases of small clean cuts the best treatment is to 
carefully adjust the edges, place over the cut a strip of 
clean linen" soaked in clean water (or, better, in a solution 
of carbolic acid, one part of acid to forty of water), and 
bandage carefully. 

The bleeding from small wounds often stops under the 
above, treatment, but if it continues after the bandage has 
been applied, or if it is severe from the beginning, it will 
be necessary to adopt special means to check it. 

Bleeding. 

If any kind of blood vessel is injured bleeding will be 
produced, and the process varies according as to whether a 
capillary vessel, a vein, or an artery has been broken. 

Capillary bleeding is the commonest and simplest form 
of haemorrhage. The blood slowly oozes from the raw 

361 



ACCIDENTS AND EMERGENCIES. 



365 



surface, and appears at many points. This bleeding is 
easily stopped by bathing the part with cold water, or by 
tying firmly over it a pad of lint soaked in cold water. 

Bleeding from a vein is recognised by the fact that the 
blood is dark in colour, and wells up from the wound in 
a dark steady stream. The bleeding can be stopped by 
placing on the wound a pad of lint soaked in cold water, 
and kept in position by a bandage. The tightness of the 




Fig. 144. 



METHOD OF COMPKKSSING ARTEBY IN THIOH. 



bandage should be gradually increased until the bleeding 
stops. 

Arterial bleeding is the most serious form, and is the 
most difficult to stop. The blood is of a bright red colour, 
and is forced out in jets or spurts, if the artery is large, 
or, in a continuous forcible stream from the smaller arteries. 
To stop the bleeding it is necessary to apply pressure over 
the wound itself. Press the thumb over the point in the 



366 



ACCIDENTS AND EMERGENCIES. 



wound from which the blood is seen to be spurting. If 
the pressure is sufficient and is maintained, the bleeding 
can be held in check until medical assistance is available. 
In less severe cases the bleeding may be stopped by tying 
a pad of linen firmly over the wound. 

Where the artery is at all large and the bleeding is 
occurring from a limb, the most satisfactory method is to 
apply pressure to the main artery at a place higher up the 
limb than the wound. By thus closing the artery at a 





Fig. 145. 



Fig. 146. 



TOURNIQUET APPLIED TO 
THIGH. 



TOURNIQUET APPLIED TO 
ARM. 



point between the heart and the wound, the bleeding will 
be arrested. This pressure is best exercised at a point in 
the course of the artery where it passes near to a bone. 
The artery can be easily identified by its pulsation, and it 
should be pressed against the bone by the two thumbs, one 
over the other. The points to be chosen for this pressure 
are easily learned by a few attendances at an ambulance 
class, but are difficult to describe in a few words. 

Remember in cases of bleeding that sufficient pressure 



ACCIDENTS AND EMERGENCIES. 367 

brought to bear upon the spot from which the blood is 
running will in the great majority of cases be all that is 
necessary in order that the bleeding should cease. For 
keeping up continuous pressure it may be necessary to 
employ some form of tourniquet. A good tourniquet 
may be made by tying a knot in the middle of a handker- 
chief, placing this on the spot where it is desired to produce 
compression, and tying the handkerchief tightly round the 
limb. Instead of the knot a piece of wood, or a flat stone, 
may be tied on by means of the handkerchief. If this does 
not stop the bleeding pass a stick or a penknife under the 
handkerchief and twist it round until the pressure is 
sufficient. 

Bleeding from the palm of the hand may be stopped by 
pressing a pad upon the wound and tightly binding the 
fingers over it. Similarly, if from the forearm, place a pad 
in the fold of the elbow, bend the forearm on the arm and 
tie it tightly bent. If from the arm, press a pad into the 
armpit and bind the arm to the side. In the same way 
bleeding from the foot may be stopped by direct pressure, 
while bending the leg upon a pad behind the knee will stop 
much of the bleeding below the knee. Bleeding from the 
face and head can usually be checked by pressure against 
the bony surface beneath. 

Nose Bleeding. 

Bleeding from the nose is sometimes difficult to stop. 
The child should sit in a chair, with the head thrown back 
and the arms raised. If this is not sufficient to stop the 
bleeding, the head, face, and neck should be freely douched 
with cold water. Do not let the patient bend down over a 
basin, and frequent blowing and wiping the nose should 
be prevented. Another treatment is to syringe out the 
nose with a .strong solution of alum in iced water, 



368 ACCIDENTS AND EMERGENCIES. 

BITES AND STINGS. 

Bites of animals often cause irregular jagged wounds 
that are long in healing. The immediate treatment of all 
bites is thorough and vigorous sucking of the wound and 
spitting out the saliva and blood. It is best to encourage 
free bleeding for a time. Then the wound should be again 
sucked and cleaned carefully with hot water, and then 
some strong Condy's fluid applied. 

Stings by insects are often the cause of great pain and 
shock. If the sting has been left in the skin it must be 
pulled out. Then quickly rub on the spot some strong 
solution of washing soda, or sal volatile. The continued 
application of these substances is not desirable or 
necessary. 

BRUISES. 

The commonest accident in the playground is bruising. 
The bruise should be treated with cold applications such 
as a handkerchief applied and kept soaked with cold water. 
Bruised eyes if promptly treated in this way may be pre- 
vented from blackening. The alternative is the application 
of very hot water for about fifteen minutes. 

FRACTURES. 

When a bone is broken the greatest possible care should 
be taken to prevent any movement. Sometimes the force 
producing the fracture is so great that one of the broken 
ends of bone gets forced through the flesh and skin to the 
outside, forming an open wound as well as a fracture. 
This is called a compound fracture. When the skin is not 
broken it is called a simple fracture. Simple fractures are 
often converted into compound by mismanagement, and 



ACCIDENTS AND EMERGENCIES. 369 

the case is thereby rendered infinitely more serious, 
because the air can now get into the wound and may 
take with it some germs which may do serious injury 
and even cause death. A fracture is diagnosed by 
the loss of power of movement of the part involved, 
by the unnatural position, by local swelling and pain, 
or by the place of fracture being felt beneath the 
rikin. Sometimes it is difiicult to be quite sure whether a 
fracture has taken place or not, but the best rule is to 
treat every doubtful case as a fracture until medical help 
arrives. 

When an individual has broken a bone, no movement 
whatever should be allowed until means have been taken 
to ensure immobility of the part. If the fracture is a 
compound one, the wound should be washed, if possible, 
with some clean water, or better, with a disinfecting lotion, 
such as a solution of carbolic acid (one in forty of water). 
Then place a pad of lint or a clean handkerchief over the 
wound, to prevent the entrance of more air. 

In the case of a fractured skull very little can be done 
until the doctor arrives. The patient 
should be placed on a bed or couch with 
the head raised. Cloths soaked in cold 
water should be repeatedly applied to 
the head. 

A broken jaw is recognised by the 
patient being unable to speak, and also 
by feeling a depression at some point in 
Fig. 147. the bone. If possible a bandage should 
METHOD OF APPLYING be applied as shown in Fig. 147, after 

BANDAOES TO BH.OKKN . . ., . .. , 

JAW. gently raising the jaw to its natural 

position. One handkerchief is fastened 
round the top of the head and below the jaw, and the 
other passes round the chin to the back of the neck. 
PHY, HYG, 24 




370 



ACCIDENTS AND EMERGENCIES. 



A broken collarbone is a common result of a fall, especi- 
ally among children. An irregularity will be detected by 
passing the fingers along the collarbone. Another sign is 
the inability of the patient to raise the arm above the 
shoulder. Place a pad, such as a rolled up handkerchief, 
in the armpit and, after placing the arm in a sling, tie it to 
the side by means of a broad bandage passed round the 
arm and chest, outside the sling. 

Broken ribs are also of common occurrence. The patient 
complains of a sharp pain on drawing his breath, and a 
grating sensation at each breath may be detected by 
placing the hand over the spot. A broad bandage should 
be fastened tightly round the chest, and this is usually 
found to give great relief. 




Fig. 148. 
SPLINT APPLIED TO BROKEN TIIIOH. 

In the case of a broken arm-bone temporary splints 
should be cut so as to reach from the armpit to the elbow. 
Eoughly pad the splints by wrapping them round with 
handkerchiefs ; and place one from the shoulder to the 
outside of the elbow, and the other from the armpit to the 
inside of the elbow. Bandage the splints firmly to the 
arm, and put the forearm in a sling. 

Broken forearms are treated by fastening the arm to an 
angular splint. To make this, bind two pieces of wood at 
right angles to each other. Next, bend the arm to a right 



ACCIDENTS AND EMERGENCIES. 



371 



angle at the elbow, and fasten it to the splint with hand- 
kerchiefs ; then put the arm in a sling. Broken bones of 
the hand or finger are best treated by fastening the whole 
hand flat against a broad splint, and then putting the arm 
in a sling. 

A broken thigh requires very careful treatment. First 
take hold of the foot with both hands, 
and pull steadily until the injured 
limb is the same length as the other. 
Then tie the feet together. Next 
obtain, if possible, a long splint a 
broom-stick or an umbrella will do 
and tie it as shown in Fig. 148. The 
splint should go from the armpit to 
the foot. If no splint can be ob- 
tained, tie the legs firmly together 
at several places. 

A broken leg is treated in a 
similar way. The splint should 
reach well up above the knee, and 
down below the foot. In all injuries 
to the knee, leg, foot, or ankle it is 
a good rule to tie the two legs to- 
gether, so as to prevent any further 
LEO. injury being done by movement. 




Fig. 149. 

SPLINT APPLIED TO BROKEN 



SPRAINS AND DISLOCATIONS. 

When a joint is sprained there is usually a certain 
amount of damage done to the ligaments or membranes 
round the joint. The condition is usually very painful. 
The ankle joint is most often involved. A slight sprain is 
often relieved temporarily by a tight bandage round the 
joint. The treatment usually consists of cold applications, 



372 ACCIDENTS AND EMERGENCIES. 

such as cold water dressings, but as a general rule it is 
easier and more satisfactory to bathe the joint with water 
as hot as can be borne. If -this is persevered with there is 
usually great relief obtained. 

A joint is dislocated when the bones forming the joint 
have lost their usual relative position. This unnatural 
position causes pain and deformity, and as a rule the joint 
cannot be used. In many cases of finger or thumb joints 
the dislocation can be readily reduced by simply pulling 
the bones into place, but in most cases it is wiser to leave 
the operation to a medical man, lest further damage should 
be done. 

BURNS AND SCALDS. 

These are not common accidents at day schools, but the 
materials necessary for the treatment of them should be at 
hand in each department of every school. First remove 
any clothing covering the injured part. Cut the clothes in 
such a way that they drop off. Do not pull them at all, 
and if any clothing sticks to the skin leave it there, but cut 
off the loose parts all round. Then cover up the burn or 
scald with pieces of cotton or linen soaked in a mixture 
of linseed oil and lime water, or olive oil and limp, water, 
or either of these oils alone. Another good dressing is a 
solution of carbonate of soda or washing soda in water or 
milk. Now cover the dressing with a thick layer of cotton 
wool or flannel. Keep the patient warm, and give some 
strong tea or coffee if there is any sign of faintness or 
depression. 

Children should be instructed that if their clothing 
should catch fire the best thing for them to do is to lie on 
the floor and roll rapidly over and over. Few children, 
however, would retain sufficient presence of mind under 
such alarming circumstances, and the duty of a bystander 



ACCIDENTS AND EMERGENCIES. 373 

is to wrap round the burning child a rug, carpet, blanket, 
or coat; and then, laying it on the floor, roll it about 
rapidly until the flames are extinguished. 

A common accident with children is the scalding of the 
mouth and throat by drinking out of teapots or kettles. 
In these cases the scalded parts swell up quickly and the 
child may suffocate. A doctor should be summoned at 
once, as an operation may be necessary to save the child's 
life. Meanwhile wrap up the child in a blanket, apply hot 
flannels to the outside of the throat, and give a little oil to 
drink. 

In a school laboratory the skin is often burned by strong 
acids or alkalies, such as sulphuric acid or caustic soda. 
The best treatment is to immediately plunge the part into 
cold clean water, or hold it under the tap. When thorough 
washing has taken place it may be beneficial to wash the 
place with very weak acid (in the case of burning by 
alkalies) or alkali (for burns by acids) , but such treatment 
should never be attempted until thorough washing has been 
carried out. 

REMOVAL OF FOREIGN BODIES. 

Substances, technically known as foreign bodies, may, as 
a result of some accident or mishap, have gained entrance 
to various parts of the body, such as the larynx, the stomach, 
the nose, eyes, ears, skin, etc. 

Throat. 

If a solid, such as a lump of food, a coin, a piece of bone, 
or even an orange pip, is sticking in the throat, or is drawn 
into the pharynx, it may cause most alarming symptoms : 
the face suddenly becomes purple, the eyes protrude, inar- 
ticulate sounds are made, and unconsciousness rapidly 



374 ACCIDENTS AND EMERGENCIES. 

comes on. Pass the forefinger into the mouth, reach down 
the throat as far as possible, and try to hook out the 
obstruction. Even if you cannot reach the obstruction 
your efforts may cause vomiting, which will do good. 
Sometimes a sudden slap on the back is effectual. If the 
exciting cause is some small object such as a coin or orange 
pip the old way of holding the child up by the heels, head 
downwards, and giving the back a smart smack is often 
successful. 

Stomach. 

When a child has swallowed some solid object, such as 
a plum-stone, a pin, needle, or nail, the next few meals 
should be given as dry as possible, and plenty of bread 
and vegetables should be eaten. Do not give aperient 
medicines. 

Eye. 

Small objects in the eye give rise to a great deal of pain 
and irritation, and should be attended to at once. The 
pain can usually be located and that part of the eye ex- 
amined by partly everting the upper or lower lid by holding 
the eyelashes with the thumb and finger. When the object 
is seen it can be easily removed by means of the moistened 
corner of a handkerchief. If the object is seen to be 
sticking in the cornea do not attempt to remove it, but 
wait for the doctor. 

Nose. 

Occasionally children push up the nose small objects, 
sach as beads, and fail to recover them. By making the 
child sneeze the object is often dislodged, but if this is not 
successful it will be best to await the arrival of the 
doctor. 



ACCIDENTS AND EMERGENCIES. 375 

Ear. 

If some small object has become lodged in the ear it is 
best to refrain from taking any steps to remove it. Such 
matters are best left to a doctor. As a general rule the 
teacher will find it best, as a matter of common caution, to 
refrain from applying active remedies except in the simplest 
possible cases. The parent of an injured child is often 
inclined to blame some innocent and well-meaning indi- 
vidual who has attempted to help. 

Skin. 

Foreign bodies such as thorns, splints, or needles are 
commonly lodged in the skin. If their removal is obvious 
and simple there is no reason why it should not be attempted, 
but it is important to remember here also that unsuccessful 
attempts of this kind are apt to render the ultimate removal 
of the object a much more serious matter. 

VOMITING. 

A child may vomit owing to the most trivial cause, but 
on the other hand it may be the first indication of a most 
dangerous condition. It is commonly the first noticeable 
happening in the preliminary stage of scarlet fever, diph- 
theria, and other infectious conditions, as well as such 
severe illnesses as pneumonia and brain fever, or such 
dangerous conditions as obstruction of the bowels or 
rupture. On account of the possibility of it being an 
indication of some serious condition vomiting should not 
be regarded lightly. To relieve the feeling of nausea an 
excellent remedy is good effervescing soda-water. 

FAINTING. 

In overcrowded and ill ventilated school-rooms fainting 
is by no means uncommon. It is usually caused by 



376 ACCIDENTS AND EMERGENCIES. 

temporary feebleness of the heart's action, and is accom- 
panied by paleness of face and some perspiration. Give 
the child fresh air and put the head as low as possible, 
either by laying full length on the floor or by bending the 
head and body forwards until the head is below the knees. 
Apply smelling salts to the nostrils, or sprinkle the face 
with cold water. When recovering it is beneficial to give 
some cold water to sip, but do not try to make the child 
drink during unconsciousness. Children should be taught 
that a most effectual remedy when feeling faint is to stoop 
down as if tying one's shoe-laces. This is usually quite 
sufficient to cause the feeling of faintness to pass away. 



EPILEPSY. 

An epileptic fit is a common cause of insensibility. In 
the severer type of disease the sufferer first screams, and 
falls down unconscious and rigid. Then the hands are 
clenched, the legs and arms are jerked to and fro, the face 
becomes purple, and foam often comes from the mouth. A 
common accident at this stage is the biting of the tongue 
if it happens to get between the teeth. The convulsive 
movements then gradually subside and finally cease, and 
the patient usually falls into a deep sleep. During the fit 
the eyes are usually turned sideways and they are quite 
insensitive to light and touch. 

When a fit of this kind occurs the only thing to be done 
is to prevent the patient injuring himself. Loosen all the 
clothes about the neck, put something soft under the head, 
and if possible put a piece of wood or cork between the 
teeth to prevent the tongue being bitten. Do not try to 
restrain all movements, or give stimulants, or throw cold 
water on the face. Allow the patient to go to sleep as soon 
as possible. 



ACCIDENTS AND EMERGENCIES. 377 

Such fits usually recur at longer or shorter intervals, 
either regularly or irregularly. Children suffering fre- 
quently from severe fits should not be allowed to attend 
ordinary schools. 

Much milder forms of epileptic attacks are common. 
Some are quite free from convulsive movements and are 
represented merely by loss of consciousness for a few 
seconds. The face becomes pallid, and there is usually 
perspiration during the attack. When consciousness re- 
turns the child may be liable to sudden eccentric behaviour 
or even acts of violence. 

HYSTERIA. 



As a rule attacks of hysteria are attended with laughing 
or crying, but occasionally there may be all the signs of an 
epileptic fit. There is, however, no real insensibility, and 
the condition may be distinguished by the patient resisting 
an attempt to raise the upper eyelid ; also, when the eyelid 
is raised, the pupil will not be visible. The best treatment 
is either to leave the patient entirely alone or to dash a 
glass of cold water over the face. 

POISONING. 

In an ordinary school the possibility of poisoning is not 
very great, but if such an emergency should arise it is 
important to bear in mind the following rules : 

1 . If the patient appears sleepy, keep him awake. 

2. If there are stains about the mouth, with signs of 

blistering and destruction of the mucous membrane, 
do not give an emetic, but give raw eggs, milk, and 
then oils (linseed oil, olive oil, salad oil). After, 
wards strong tea or coffee. 



378 ACCIDENTS AND EMERGENCIES. 

3. When there are no stains about the mouth give an 
emetic (large quantities of warm salt and water, or 
mustard and water, followed by tickling of the back 
of the throat by pushing the forefinger down as far 
as possible). Then give raw eggs, milk, and oils. 
Afterwards strong tea or coffee may be given. Do 
not give oils if there is a possibility of the poison 
being phosphorus. 



DROWNING AND SUFFOCATION. 

These are not common accidents of school life, but are 
possible ones. Instruction in the proper course to take in 
such emergencies should form a part of the teaching in all 
schools. 

Although there may appear to be no sign of life in the 
body, it is the duty of those who are first on the spot to 
make every possible effort to restore animation. 

Send for medical assistance, and in drowning cases try 
to get some hot blankets if any house is near, but do not 
leave the spot yourself. At once proceed to loosen all 
clothing about the neck and chest, and clear out the mouth 
if there is any froth or dirt. Draw forwards the tongue, 
and fasten it out by means of an elastic band, or ribbon, or 
strip of linen, which must be passed over the tongue and 
tied under the chin. 

Then turn the body over on one side, resting the head 
on the forearm. Then turn it on the back, and rub the 
chest vigorously, exciting the nostrils, when possible, with 
snuff or smelling salts. 

If no attempt at breathing is made by the individual 
himself, lose no more time, but apply artificial respiration 
at once. 



ACCIDENTS AND EMERGENCIES. 



ARTIFICIAL RESPIRATION (Silvester's method). 



379 



(1) Put the patient on his back, with a pillow beneath 
the shoulders. Pull out the tongue, as directed above, 
and keep the mouth open ajl the while. 




Fig. 150. 

ARTIFICIAL RESPIRATION. 
(a) Method of producing Inspiration. (6) Method of producing Expiration. 



(2) To produce artificial inspiration, kneel at the patient's 
head, and grasp the arms just below the elbows. Then 
pull the arms slowly and steadily above the head. This 
raises the ribs and expands the chest, causing air to enter 
the lungs. 



380 ACCIDENTS AND EMERGENCIES. 

(3) In two or three seconds, produce artificial expiration, 
by bending the arms ba.ck again, and pressing them very 
forcibly against the chest. This forces the air out of the 
lungs. This double movement should be repeated about 
fifteen times a minute, and should be kept up for at least 
an hour, even when there is no apparent return to life. 

(4) Directly- any signs of breathing are shown by the 
patient, the movements may be stopped, and the limbs 
rubbed vigorously upwards towards the trunk, in order to 
promote the circulation of the blood. Hot bottles and hot 
blankets should be applied to the pit of the stomach, the 
legs, and the feet. Stimulants should be given such as 
brandy, or better hot coffee. If assistants are at hand, 
these efforts to promote circulation should be carried on 
simultaneously with the movements of artificial respiration. 



PART III. 

THE MEDICAL SUPERVISION OF 
SCHOOL LIFE. 

CHAPTER I. 

INTRODUCTION. 

The School Medical Officer. 

It is desirable that the Medical Officer of Health should 
undertake the duty of inspecting, or supervising the in- 
spection of, schools and school children. The work is so 
inseparably connected with the public health as to render 
this essential to the smooth working and efficiency of any 
scheme. When local authorities have the power and the 
desire to treat defective bodily conditions, then the services 
of specialists in eyes, ears, skin, teeth, etc., may be necessary 
for a few special cases, but the school buildings, the health 
of the school children, and the inspection of the children 
should be in charge of the Medical Officer of Health. 

MEDICAL INSPECTION AND SUPERVISION. 

It is generally recognised that the organisation and 
direction of the medical inspection of schools should be 
assigned to the Medical Officer of Health, and the 
appointment of Dr. Newman as Chief Medical Adviser to 

381 



382 INTRODUCTION. 

the Board of Education seems to show that the Board 
intends to take this view. The following considerations 
may be urged in favour of such a course : 

(1) The Medical Officer of Health represents the pre- 
ventive functions of the Sanitary Authority and the work 
of medical inspection is largely preventive. 

(2) He controls the sanitation of the child's environ- 
ment, drainage, water, overcrowding, food, ventilation, 
housing, plans of buildings and the like. 

(3) He has access to the school for the purpose of 
examining the children for infection, and he has control of 
all the apparatus for managing infectious diseases. 

(4) He necessarily has a hygienic interest in the child 
before it begins to go to school, during its stay at school, 
and after its school days are over. The child cannot be 
divided up into abstractions, the home- child, the school, 
child, the street-child, the factory child, the work-child 
and so on. It is the same child right through its hygienic 
relationships and, as the school is the largest depot of 
children for the time being, the Medical Officer of Health 
should have the administrative advantage that direct 
personal examination can give to the preventive functions 
of the Sanitary Authority. 

(5) The Medical Officer of Health knows that the 
physical condition of the child is an index to the sanitary 
condition of the home, and he wishes to have this new line 
of entry into the home in order to improve the child's and 
the parents' environment. 

Medical inspection should not mean merely dealing with 
epidemic and isolated cases, but should be a system where- 
by education will mean the development of body as well 
as mind. At present we neglect curable conditions in child- 
hood and treat them later on in asylums and hospitals. 

In Leipzig the children are systematically examined 



INTRODUCTION. 383 

about three months after admission to school. The pre- 
liminary examination is made by teachers under medical 
superintendence. Then the detailed examination a little 
later by the doctor. Most of the parents attend this. 
The doctor delivers a short preliminary lecture on personal 
hygiene, then in the presence of mother and teacher each 
child is examined. A separate card is filled up for each 
child, and this passes with it through the school. If defects 
are found the parents are directed to seek treatment. 

Of course in very large districts and towns the whole 
of the work cannot be personally done by the Medical 
Officer of Health, and part of it may be delegated to 
an Assistant Medical Officer. The aim of those direct- 
ing education should be to arrange that every child 
should be medically examined soon after it comes to 
school, and this examination should be checked every 
year. Parents are compelled to send children to school, 
and so during the school age they may be said to be 
in charge of the State. But ordinary school conditions 
are undoubtedly useless or injurious to certain children, 
and it is the duty of the State either to weed out these 
children and to treat them separately, or to endeavour to 
bring them to the normal condition and educate them, with 
the others. Moreover it is likely that with skilled medical 
supervision the methods of modern education may be 
modified so as to produce less physical harm and more 
mental good than is achieved at present. In connection 
with such work there is also a vast field of possible research 
with regard to the development and mental conditions of 
childhood. Such an examination as is recommended should 
include information under the following heads : Name, 
date of birth, height, weight, chest measurement, personal 
appearance, general development of body, cleanliness, con- 
dition of teeth, eyes and eyesight, ears and hearing, nose 



384 INTRODUCTION. 

and throat, deformities, diseases, etc. In cases of mental 
deficiency the head measurements should also be recorded. 

Height and Weight. 

The importance of this information has already been 
discussed and a table of standards is given on page 206. 

Chest Measurements. 

This is perhaps the best and most reliable indicator of 
physical capacity. It should invariably be recorded and 
carefully checked year by year. The results give a great 
deal of information as to the condition and development 
of the child. A well developed chest usually means sound 
lungs and heart, upon which the well-being of the body 
entirely depends. 

Personal Appearance. 

Under this head should be recorded the complexion, the 
appearance as to healthiness, carriage and general balance, 
and brightness and alertness. 

General Development. 

The general conditions of development and nutrition. 

Cleanliness. 

The condition of the body, the head, and the clothing 
should be carefully recorded, as affording, in the case of 
young children, an index of the character of the parent, 
and in older children a clue to the personal disposition of 
the child as well. Dirt always denotes ignorance and in- 
capacity of the parent. 

Condition of Teeth. 

The importance of attention to the teeth has been 
explained elsewhere. Under this head the cleanliness, 



INTRODUCTION. 385 

attention received at home in the form of daily brushing, 
the shape, regularity, number missing, number decayed, 
and the number of permanent teeth visible above the gums 
should be noted. The shape and development of the 
palate may well be added here. {See Table at end of book). 

Eyes and Eyesight. 

Disease or deformity of eyes or eyelids, as well as the 
colour and the acuteness of vision should be recorded. 
From a school point of view it is sufficient if the child can 
manage to read ordinary type at the normal distance, and 
to see easily writing on blackboards or diagrams. It is 
occasionally pointed out that this may be done if one eye 
is normal, or by extra accommodation if the defect is 
slight, and a child may be suffering from an optical defect 
without having its school efficiency impaired. Later in 
life, however, after leaving school, such a defect may 
become very troublesome, and may prove to be a severe 
handicap. Consequently extremists advocate that con- 
ditions of short sight, long sight, and astigmatism should 
be accurately recorded. On the other hand it may be 
urged that if the routine examination is to include 
retinoscopic tests it will postpone, by its tedium and delay, 
the general adoption of urgently necessary medical in- 
spection. If this is so, then the average child should be 
submitted to the general test of eyesight as already 
described and the more minute examination reserved for 
the cases weeded out by the general test, and also for cases 
where intellectual progress is unsatisfactory, and for 
special cases such as children suffering from persistent 
headaches, etc. In fact, the above plan represents all 
that is really necessary, and if generally adopted would 
prove of the greatest possible service. 

PHY. HYG 25 



386 INTRODUCTION. 

Ears and Hearing. 

The record here should show any deformity or disease 
of the ears, as well as the result of the test of hearing 
already described. If the general test shows hearing 
deficiency, then the ears should be tested separately. 
Avoid special minute examinations except where the 
general examination shows that the child has some defect 
and is therefore not capable of taking full advantage of 
the ordinary school instruction. 

Rose and Throat. 

It has already been pointed out that the condition of 
the nose and throat is an important index of the child's 
health. The condition of the tonsils, the cervical glands, 
the pharynx, as well as the habit of breathing should be 
recorded. The sense of smell may also be tested. 

Deformities. 

Congenital and acquired deformities should be separately 
noted. The congenital deformities include harelip, cleft 
palate, club foot, peculiarities of ears, indented nose, etc., 
all of which may be of great service in investigating the 
case of a mentally deficient child. 



CHAPTER II. 



THE ORGANISATION OF MEDICAL 
INSPECTION. 

THE Education (Administrative Provisions) Act caine 
into operation on January 1, 1908. Section 13 is as 
follows : 

13. (1) The powers and duties of a Local Education 
Authority under Part III. of the Education Act, 1902, 
shall include : 

(6) The duty to provide for the medical inspection 
of children immediately before, or at the time 
of, or as soon as possible after, their admission 
to a public Elementary School, and on such 
other occasions as the Board of Education direct, 
and the power to make such arrangements as 
may be sanctioned by the Board of Education 
for attending to the health and physical con- 
dition of the children educated in public 
Elementary Schools. 

This section of the Act was subsequently interpreted by 
the issue of a Memorandum by the Board of Education. 
The more important points dealt with in this statesmanlike 
Memorandum are : 

I. That the aim of the new Act is not merely to produce 
a record such as is obtained by systematic medical inspec^ 
tion, but to bring about a general physical improvement 

387 



388 THE ORGANISATION OF MEDICAL INSPECTION 

of the race. It is extremely likely that by proper attention 
to the health of the children the numbers of the criminal 
and pauper classes will be considerably diminished. 

II. As a result of the introduction of medical skill into 
the methods of education it appears very likely that the 
methods at present in existence will have to be considerably 
modified in order that they may be adapted to the physical 
needs of the children. It is beginning to be realised that 
a healthy and vigorous frame is, from a national standpoint, 
a matter of supreme importance. 

III. Organisation. The whole of the work is to be 
organised under the direct supervision of the Medical 
Officer of Health, and the Memorandum contains definite 
instructions that the existing machinery of medical and 
sanitary administration must be used to the utmost extent, 
and that the whole of the work should be carried out in 
intimate conjunction with the Public Health Authorities. 

IV. Grants. It is repeatedly emphasised that the work 
actually suggested in the Memorandum must be regarded 
as a minimum interpretation of the Act. The effectiveness 
of the working will be taken into consideration in deter- 
mining the grant for the schools. In this connection it is 
to be noticed that beyond such minimum requirements 
certain important developments are mentioned, and in all 
probability the amount of the grant will depend upon the 
extent to which such developments are carried. For instance, 
special arrangements for attending to the health and physical 
condition of the children are expected to be submitted to 
the Board from time to time, and other special work is 
alluded to. It is very desirable that special earmarked 
grants will be made for the work of medical inspection and 
its inevitable sequelae. 



THE ORGANISATION OF MEDICAL INSPECTION 389 

V. The Teachers. The possibility of assistance by the 
teachers is alluded to, and the necessity of their cordial 
sympathy and help is specially mentioned. I have already 
dealt with this matter to some extent, and suggest that in 
the ordinary schools a special assistant teacher be selected 
in each department. It should be arranged for all teachers 
to receive some definite instruction on the subject, but so 
far as possible the teacher should be selected on account 
of some special knowledge of hygiene. 

VI. The Parents. It is evidently regarded as very im- 
portant that the parents and the homes must be affected 
by the Act, and that a sense of duty and responsibility 
must be stimulated, also efforts must be made to obtain the 
attendance of one or both parents at the first medical 
inspection of the child. 

VII. The Medical Examination. The actual examina- 
tion consists in recording certain facts regarding the 
previous history of the child and other facts relating to 
its present condition. Particular attention has to be given 
to the special senses, sight and hearing, and teeth. The 
inspection must be conducted in school hours and on school 
premises, and the facts entered in a register kept at the 
school. It will be necessary to keep records at the Health 
Department in the form of a sheet- filing system. 

VIII. The Routine Work. Four inspections of each child 
are suggested, the first on admission to school, the second 
three years after, the third after another three years' 
interval, and the fourth on leaving school. The ordinary 
year's work will be : 

(1) The examination of the children on entry, i.e. age 

5 or 6 years. 

(2) The examination of children ready for the second 

inspection, i.e. age 7 or 8 years. 



390 THE ORGANISATION OF MEDICAL INSPECTION. 

(3) The examination of children ready for the third 

inspection, i.e. age 10 years. 

(4) The examination of children leaving the school, i.e. 

soon after the thirteenth year. 

IX. Developments. Further developments of the Act 
are outlined in the Memorandum, viz. : the establishment 
of school surgeries and clinics, the treatment of diseased 
and defective children, the provision of school baths, the 
provision of meals, and other matters. 

X. A special recommendation with regard to the type 
of school books is of the greatest possible importance, and 
no school books should be purchased without the type 
having been approved by the Medical Officer. 

It is difficult to imagine how the above work can be 
organised successfully in any other way than by co-ordin- 
ating it with the existing machinery of the Health Depart- 
ment of the Medical Officer of Health. To attempt to 
divide the work into two parts, school and general district 
work, with separate organisations, would be to directly 
and definitely invite endless friction and reduplication of 
labour. Everything concerning the health of the district 
should be organised entirely at the Health Department of 
the town or the county, and for smooth and efficient work- 
ing it is imperative for the Medical Officer of Health to 
have sole charge and responsibility. Any attempt to separ- 
ate the work would necessitate the employment of an inferior 
type of official, and considerably increase the total cost. 

SYSTEM OF RECOEDS. 

O) At Schools. 

It is necessary first to decide upon the system that is to 
be adopted. In order to display all the examinations of 
any child in a manner that will be of value, a separate card 



THE ORGANISATION OF MEDICAL INSPECTION. 391 

must be used for each child. A convenient si^e is ten 
inches by six inches. An objection to the card system is 
that it may become altogether disarranged without the 
defect being easily discovered. Also supervision is difficult, 
and any attempt to check the work involves considerable 
time and labour. On the other hand, the employment of 
a register appears to present insuperable difficulties. 

The school cards are kept in a special box at the schools, 
and index cards should be supplied, so that they may be 
arranged in ages, boys and girls separately. In classifying 
into age groups the year of birth is the guide, e.g. during 
the year 1911 all children born in 1906 would be called 
five-year- olds and would be arranged alphabetically behind 
the index card marked " 5 years." At the end of each 
year all cards would move up into the higher group. 

The cards of children requiring parental or medical 
attention, as well as those that should be examined again 
at the next visit, are distinguished by a clip, so that they 
may be easily picked out from among the rest. 

When the Medical Officer makes a routine inspection 
the necessary age groups (five-year-olds and thirteen-year- 
olds) are picked out and are at once in readiness for use. 
When a special visit is made in order to determine the 
progress of the children requiring attention the " clipped " 
cards are picked out and the required children can be 
presented to him without difficulty. If a child has received 
suitable attention the clip is removed from the card, but if 
further attention or treatment is desirable the clip is left 
on and the child continues to be a " special." The card 
used by the author is shown on pages 392, 393. 

(&) At the Health Department. 

If the above cards formed the only records it would be 
found impossible to prepare reports or to summarise the 









I 








a 




s 






" w 




to 


s 




>J2 g 




o 




P^-^H^ I WH 


e 

< 


a 

< 




r- Igji .s! 








1 IllSiliail.s ffl 

fi 1^151 










S 








"1 
o 

j 










o 








Jf 






. 


02 C 


s 








B 






H f 1 








rt a 


! P 






















GQ 








PH 








S 








1 






























fl rt 








O o 








: : : : .p -^5- 
















. . . . .^^^ 3 i^7 


E 

i 

5* 


. i 

S 
< C 

5 


a 

r. 

s 

3 

3 

A 


: : < ^ -O^S'SS* S H ^^rS 

pq^csp.go i^ ts^SPn^g 

O ^ ^ 15 r- ^ O G) C5 P^ O Vr ^* L 

55 'O^ Q pq ^ H p C O P 
5 . . . W - M ' ^ ' ojoSH.s v^^^/ 

I : : : I : 1 : ls : g -%>^ 

* o HP Q 5^ . w^i g 

(xj t> 2 "- v ' "* o M ' . 3 C 

raHHMf;^ g <.pOH , 525 
-i : g a H ^ 15 a H wo!5w^i ^oi-H 








U-^5OocKrt<< H <HgW3W 5 to 

HggsgSg o H |HP M gg 
p <j W ^ Q ^ O O CQ H OQ <j O P-i W PM 



392 



o ^ 
H 

w >j 

& < 

o S 




394 THE ORGANISATION OF MEDICAL INSPECTION. 

results obtained, especially as to averages of heights and 
weights, percentage of defective, etc. Summary sheets 
must therefore be used. The summary sheet used by the 
author is shown on pages 394, 395. The chief headings, 
arranged vertically upon the child's card, are placed hori- 
zontally on the summary sheet, so that the entries made 
upon the card at any particular examination can be copied 
upon the summary sheet opposite the child's name. There 
is room for twenty-five names upon a sheet, so that a full 
sheet would represent the maximum amount of work that 
can be done in half a day. The filling up of these sheets 
is described later on. Boys and girls should be entered 
upon different sheets, and separate sheets should be used 
for different ages. 

These sheets, therefore, not only form records of work 
in the order in which it is done, but also provide a safe- 
guard against loss or displacement of the separate cards 
at the school. 

In those districts where the actual inspection has to be 
carried out by assistants to the Medical Officer of Health, 
these summary sheets regularly despatched to the Central 
Office are also of great value in comparing work done and 
in securing uniformity. Notes and queries can be made 
on the sheets, thereby saving a considerable amount of 
formal correspondence between the assistants and the 
Central Office. 

EOUTINE INSPECTION. 

1. Work by Teachers. 

Every child in each school has its card. Different colours 
are used for the two sexes. In the case of the card repro- 
duced on pages 392, 393, it will be seen that the schedule 
of medical inspection as outlined by the Board of Educa- 
tion has been followed largely, but that the matter has 



THE ORGANISATION OF MEDICAL INSPECTION. 395 

been rearranged in order to secure certain obvious advan- 
tages. Additions have also been made which experience 
in such work has shown to be advisable, and others that 
are made necessary by the Board's memoranda. No 
additional cards are used for special cases. The cards for 
such children are denoted by a small clip, which remains 
fixed as long as the child requires attention. When the 
necessary parental or medical attention has been given, the 
clip is removed, and the card filed among those of children 
born in the same year. 

The front of the card contains nine columns, one for 
each year of school life (five to thirteen years old), and 
these items are filled in for each child every year. Unless 
some such continuous record is made, it is difficult to 
imagine any real value to be attached to these obser- 
vations. The .regular performance of this work has, 
moreover, a very considerable educational value for both 
teachers and scholars. This is a point that is now 
beginning to be appreciated by large numbers of the 
teachers. 

The teacher fills in each year items 1 16 on the card of 
every child in the school. All the items are checked by 
the medical inspector at the time of his visit, and, where 
necessary, items 10, 15, and 16 are filled in by him, if the 
teacher has had difficulty with them. 

An excellent introduction to the work is afforded by a 
course of lectures to teachers by the Medical Officer, and 
the opportunity can be taken to explain simple methods 
of eye and ear testing such as can well be undertaken by 
teachers. 

The cards are then supplied to the various departments 
in sufficient quantities, and boxes to hold 400 cards can 
be obtained at about 3s. 6d. each. The box should be kept 
under lock and key in a cupboard or desk. A circular 



papna^v 



H 
H 2 

SB. 



Pe 
n H 



eraooapaa 



UTJ8TO 



<Ja H 



ntmfr 




396 



OBSERVA- 

TION3BT 

MEDICAL 
OFFICER. 



DIRECTION 
TO TEACHE 

BY S.M.O. 



spioaapy 



Suuoug 



397 



398 THE ORGANISATION OP MEDICAL INSPECTION. 

letter of directions is then sent to each head teacher. The 
following is an example : 

Medical Inspection of School Children. 

DEAR SIR OR MADAM, 

It is desirable that a school card should be prepared for every 
child in the school. The cards for children who reach the ages of 
five and thirteen years will be required first. 

The buff cards are for boys and the azure cards for girls. 

At the top of the card all the information can be filled up with the 
exception of the number of vaccination marks. 

On the admission of any child, its previous history, with regard 
to the group of infectious diseases, should be carefully ascertained 
and noted ; the diseases that have been suffered from being denoted 
by a date placed against them. Also on admission the occupation 
of the father and the information concerning the house and the 
number of occupants in the house should be ascertained. 

The filling up of the height (without boots), weight (in ordinary 
indoor clothes, but without shoes), and chest measurements should 
then be undertaken, chest measurements being taken under the 
outer garment, and the two figures should represent the minimum 
and maximum measurements. 

The cleanliness of body and head should be recorded by writing 
the figure 1 if the child is clean, 2 if the child is not clean, and 3 if 
very dirty. If vermin are present write V against the figure used. 
Thus 2V means that the child is not clean and that vermin a're 
present. 

Similarly clothing (quantity and cleanliness) is denoted in three 
degrees, 1 meaning satisfactory, 2 not satisfactory, and 3 very bad. 

The sight should be rapidly tested in the way that has been 
already described, and the children thereby classified in the three 
groups, the normal, the slightly defective, and the obviously defec- 
tive, denoted by A, B, and C respectively. 

The total number of teeth and the number among these that are 
decayed should be recorded. 

Finally, the hearing is roughly tested in the way that has been 
described. 

Faithfully yours, 
R. A. LYSTER, Medical Officer. 



THE ORGANISATION OF MEDICAL INSPECTION. 399 

For the ordinary year's work the teachers should get 
filled up as rapidly as possible the cards of those children 
who are due for medical examination. Afterwards the 
other children can be dealt with. 

The figures 1, 2, and 3 are used and represent the three 
degrees of comparison. Thus " cleanliness 1 " means that 
the child is apparently and usually very clean, while 
" clothing (quantity) 3 " infers that the child is usually 
insufficiently clad. Item 9 (sight) is filled in by the 
teacher by dividing the scholars into three grades of 
vision, viz. 6 / 6 , between 6 /e an( i 6 /i2 an( ^ worse than 6 /i2 
and for this purpose special sight-testing cards should be 
supplied for their use. Children whose sight is not normal 
are further tested by the Medical Inspector, who records 
the condition carefully against item 15 on the back of the 
card. 

As a means of education, both for teachers and scholars, 
the filling in of the item as to chest measurement is particu- 
larly valuable. The figures obtained are of no particular 
value -for statistical purposes, but their educational value 
cannot be overestimated. The mere fact that the measure- 
ments of the chest, during full inspiration and expiration^ 
are made, serves to impress upon those concerned their 
great importance, and the interest thus excited cannot fail 
to produce good results. Many teachers add, on the taking 
of such measurements, a simple lesson upon " breathing." 
In fact, it is evident that most of the items can be made 
of considerable educational value by intelligent teachers. 
The record of chest measurements at several schools reveals 
the interesting fact that these measurements in the case of 
choir boys were considerably greater than the average. 

The information required concerning the house and 
occupants, as is clearly shown by the Board's Circulars 
576, 582, and 596, is indispensable, at all events for future 



4)00 THE ORGANISATION OF MEDICAL INSPECTION. 

work, and represents the minimum amount that must be 
obtained eventually if the scheme is to be developed upon 
the lines indicated by the Board of Education. These 
three questions represent the essential preliminary steps 
towards putting into effect the Board of Education's clear 
and oft-repeated instructions that all actions taken towards 
amelioration should be on the broad basis of public health. 

It should be understood that this information is expected 
to be obtained only so far as it can be elicited from the 
children themselves by personal private questioning. In 
the case of infants, the spaces may be left blank until 
reliable information is obtainable. Its value is, however, 
not limited to a mere fulfilment of the requirements of 
the Board of Education, as it has an obvious local applica- 
tion. For example, the children in a certain school may 
be found on medical examination to possess a low average 
standard of health. If facts concerning outside conditions 
were not available, this low standard of health might be 
attributed to defects in the school itself, whereas the real 
reason may be the fact that the majority of the children 
live in insanitary and overcrowded homes. In individual 
cases the information would be of considerable value in 
helping the medical inspector to form a correct opinion as 
to the actual reason for any given case of ill-health. 

The information as to previous illnesses is obtained at 
the time of entry to the school. Concerning older children, 
the parents should be requested to furnish it on special 
forms attached to the notice about the inspection. The 
facts under this heading will also gradually accumulate 
during the child's school life by the teacher filling in the 
child's age at the time that any of the recorded illnesses 
occur. 

It is difficult to imagine any successful scheme of medical 
inspection in which the teachers are not expected to play a 



THE ORGANISATION OF MEDICAL INSPECTION. 401 

very prominent part. In Hampshire, from the beginning 
of the work, this fact has been frankly recognised, and the 
teachers have been allotted an important part in the 
scheme. They have performed their part in a manner that 
has reflected the greatest credit upon them personally, and 
also upon their profession. I have always maintained that 
for all ordinary purposes an intelligent teacher is far more 
useful to the work of medical inspection than a nurse could 
possibly be, and the teachers here have amply justified 
such a contention. 

It is obvious that if the cards were filled up entirely by 
strangers visiting the school, the disturbance of the school 
routine would be considerably greater, and the time occu- 
pied by the work would be increased. Particularly would 
this be the case when infants are being examined. More- 
over, any information obtained only at the time of a special 
inspection, after due notice to parents, would be of little 
value in connection with items 7 and 8 (cleanliness and 
clothing) . 

Every teacher who realises the responsibility of his or her 
position regularly inspects the children as regards their 
general cleanliness. Also many teachers in the county 
have for several years been in the habit of testing the 
sight, and measuring and weighing the children every year. 
The present scheme simply requires the teacher to make 
these observations a little more exactly, and to record 
them on official cards. 

2. Arrangements for the Inspection. 

The following steps are now taken : 

A letter is sent to the head teacher to the effect that 

the Medical Officer will attend at the school at a certain 

day and hour, and requesting that certain groups of 

children (see page 389) be selected for examination. The 

PHY. HYQ. 26 



402 THE ORGANISATION OF MEDICAL INSPECTION. 

head teacher then sends out, at least one clear day before 
the medical inspection, the following notice to the parents 
or guardians of the children selected for examination. 

DEAR SIR OR MADAM, 

Under the Act of 1907 it has been -made compulsory upon 
Education Authorities to arrange for the medical inspection of 
school children. The medical examination of your child has been 
arranged for next, the of , 

at o'clock at the school. 

If you wish to be present during the examination I am to request 
your attendance at the school at the above-mentioned time. 

Yours faithfully, 

HEAD TEACHER. 

The teacher should also see that the cards of the selected 
children are filled up as far as possible in readiness for 
the inspection. The maximum number of children for 
examination during any morning or afternoon is 25, and 
where the school is sufficiently large to permit it, children 
of the same sex and approximately the same age should 
be selected for examination at any one time. In any case 
it must be remembered that separate summary sheets 
must be used for boys and girls, and that one sheet should 
contain the records of children of approximately the same 
age. The entries made on the card by the teacher are 
copied on the summary sheet in readiness for the visit of 
the Medical Officer. 

When the Medical Officer attends the school the head 
teacher should have ready a table and three chairs in a 
class-room, or a screened part of the school. The chairs 
are occupied by the Medical Officer, the parent (if present), 
and an assistant teacher. The head teacher should arrange 
that each child is prepared with clothes over the chest 
already loosened or removed, and that as each examination 
is completed the next child on the list is ready. 

The Medical Officer rapidly fills in the parts of the card 



THE ORGANISATION OP MEDICAL INSPECTION. 403 

not already completed, and then hands the card to the 
assistant teacher, who copies his records upon the summary 
sheet. At the end of the morning or afternoon the 
summary sheet forms an exact record of the work done 
at any one sitting. 

3. Apparatus at each School. 

At each school there should be provided a weighing 
machine, a box for school cards, with index cards by 
means of which they are divided into age groups, height 
measures, tape for chest measurement, and sight-testing 
cards (special for teacher's use, and ordinary for medical 
inspector's use). A weighing machine is necessary not 
only for each school, but also for separate departments of 
the larger schools. 

4. Selection of Special Cases by Teachers. 

The teacher should be invited to present at the time of 
the visit of the Medical Officer any children concerning 
whom a medical opinion may be considered desirable, and 
all such cases presented should be examined. As illus- 
trating the excellent judgment that is displayed by the 
average teacher, I may mention that out of 5,627 children 
thus presented by the teachers in Hampshire, 4,800 were 
found to be in need of attention. A few teachers, unfor- 
tunately, still appear to be afraid to deal properly with 
the dirty children in their school, and fail to realise that 
without their active co-operation any considerable improve- 
ment in the cleanliness of the children is likely to be a 
matter of difficulty and improbability. Many schools have 
been completely transformed as regards cleanliness of the 
children by the activity and help of the head teacher. 

Another very important matter that is at present in- 
adequately realised by the teachers is the advisability of 



404 THE ORGANISATION OF MEDICAL INSPECTION. 

exercising a certain amount of supervision over the cleanli- 
ness and condition of the teeth of the children. This is 
so obviously an educational matter that it should not be 
necessary to have to point it out to them. 

5. The Medical Officer's Work. 

Properly and intelligently assisted, it will be found quite 
possible to examine at the rate of ten children per hour, 
but a great deal depends upon the kind of assistance 
given by the teachers. The Memorandum of the Board of 
Education has been misinterpreted by some into meaning 
that all children were to be examined in detail, and that 
positive or negative opinions were to be expressed upon 
every point. Such cannot be the intention, because under 
these conditions the scheme would be unworkable. 

Obviously the intention is to arrange for every child 
to have the benefit of medical opinion as to whether its 
physical and mental condition is such as to enable it to 
take full advantage of the educational opportunities that 
are presented. Children whose ages, heights, and weights 
are in proportion, who appear normal upon casual inspec- 
tion, and who have passed the simple tests of sight and 
hearing conducted by the teacher, should be rapidly passed 
on. The essential object of the routine medical examina- 
tion is to weed out those children who are abnormal. 

The question that inevitably arises is whether an exact 
diagnosis of all abnormal conditions is necessary or de- 
sirable. My personal opinion is that all that should be 
expected of the school medical inspector is the classification 
of the abnormal conditions into groups, without exact 
diagnosis, except in the more obvious and simple con- 
ditions. My chief reason is that, as a rule, the school 
medical officer cannot possibly treat the cases that he dis- 
covers. A vast amount of the " amelioration " referred to 



THE ORGANISATION OF MEDICAL INSPECTION. 405 

in the Memorandum of the Board of Education (beyond 
general schemes for controlling ringworm, verminous con- 
ditions, etc.) will be brought about by merely pointing out 
to parents the fact that children require medical attention, 
but there certainly would be friction if the children are 
taken to the general practitioners with a ready-made dia- 
gnosis on a card. Also the children passed on to hospitals 
or dispensaries for treatment would meet with a doubtful 
reception in such circumstances. 

It will be far better to regard the Medical Officer of 
Health and the School Medical Officer chiefly as the means 
whereby the normal can be separated from the abnormal, 
the abnormal roughly sorted and classified, and also whereby 
improvements can be brought about in many general 
conditions concerning the scholars and school-life. For 
instance, at present, in many districts it appears to be 
sheer waste of time for a medical inspector to ascertain 
exactly the amount of deficiency of vision in a given case 
of defective sight. Very rough testing will determine 
whether the child can see sufficiently well for ordinary 
school purposes or not. If special attention is considered 
to be necessary, the sight undoubtedly will be exactly 
tested by the ophthalmic surgeon under whose care, either 
privately or at hospitals or dispensaries, the vast majority 
of such cases will come. 

The school doctor will be far more profitably employing 
his valuable time in following the advice of the Memor- 
andum and removing " unsatisfactory conditions of school- 
life which are a common cause of fatigue and of injured 
eyesight," and in bringing about such educational modifi- 
cations as will avoid the necessity of spectacles and 
" diminish the prevalence of the bad habit of working the 
eyes near distance, or ensure the adoption of suitable type 
of letterpress for the readers' eyes." 



406 THE ORGANISATION OF MEDICAL INSPECTION. 

At the medical inspection it is convenient to hand the 
cards, as they are filled up, to an assistant (a teacher 
usually), who copies the records upon a prepared summary 
sheet as already described. These summary sheets should 
be used separately for boys and girls and for different ages 
(in years). Such sheets enable the Medical Officer to keep 
the statistical records continuously up to date, instead of 
leaving an accumulated mass of material until the end of 
the year. 

THE RESULTS OF INSPECTION. 

As a result of the medical inspection of school children, 
it is possible to divide children as follows: 

(1) Normal healthy children. 

(2) Children needing parental attention (dirt, vermin, 
clothes, lack of food or sleep). 

(3) Children needing medical or surgical attention 
(eyes, ears, adenoids, skin diseases, anaemia). 

(4) Children needing both parental and medical 
attention. 

(5) Children suffering from physical defects, such as 
heart disease, serious myopia, or deafness, and 
therefore unlikely to benefit from ordinary school 
routine and surroundings, although of normal 
intelligence. Such children should be collected 
together and educated, as far as possible, in 
open-air schools. 

(6) Crippled children. 

(7) Epileptic children. 

(8) Backward children. 

(9) Feeble-minded children. 

(10) Imbecile and idiot children. 

(11) Blind children. 

(12) Deaf children. 



THE ORGANISATION OF MEDICAL INSPECTION. 407 

Exclusion of Children. 

The exclusion of children by the Medical Inspector is, 
of course, a matter of frequent occurrence. The forms of 
exclusion are made out in triplicate by the Inspector, one 
copy being retained by the teacher, and two being for- 
warded to the central office. One of these forms is sent to 
the Director of Education, and the other one is filed. The 
form is as follows : 

Hampshire County Council. 

Public Health Department (Medical Inspection Branch). 

Exclusion of Scholars by School Medical Officer. 

Name of School 

Dept. 

I have this day advised that the undermentioned Scholars be 
excluded from School on the grounds stated : 



Name. 


Suggested Period 
of Exclusion. 


Ground for Exclusion. 









School Medical Officer. 



Date. 



CHAPTER III. 



FOLLOWING-TIP AND TKEATMENT. 

WORK OF AMELIORATION. 

THE work of amelioration must be attempted at first as a 
matter for experiment. Different districts require different 
methods, not only because their needs are not the same, 
but also because agencies are available in some that are 
not in others. After definitely ascertaining the needs of 
the district in these directions, and after carefully experi- 
menting with different methods, it will be desirable that 
Local Education Authorities should ultimately formulate 
and submit to the Board schemes for the amelioration of 
the evils revealed by the medical inspection. 

NOTICES TO PARENTS. 

As a preliminary step in cases requiring medical or 
parental attention, and brought to light in one of the 
many ways referred to above, a notice should be sent to the 
parent. Notices concerning verminous heads have already 
been referred to earlier in the book, and similar notices 
may be sent concerning other cases requiring attention 
from the parents. Where medical attention is required a 
notice should be sent to the parent stating that the child is 
in need of medical attention, and requesting that the same 
may be obtained without delay. It is not advisable that a 

4C8 



FOLLOWING-TIP AND TREATMENT. 409 

definite diagnosis should be part of this notice. By follow- 
ing up such cases it will be possible to determine which of 
them are prevented by poverty from obtaining treatment. 
With the present poor law and its administration, the 
treatment of such cases presents almost insuperable diffi- 
culties, but it is, perhaps, not too much to hope that the 
day of the " guardians of the poor " is over, and that 
Boards of Guardians will soon cease to exist. It is impos- 
sible to understand why their existence has been tolerated 
for so long, in the face of so many revelations of in- 
capacity and corruption on the part of both guardians and 
officials. 

The old problem of poor law administration is constantly 
brought before all school medical officers. In their ordinary 
work they frequently meet genuine cases of need, and in 
still more instances they have such cases reported to them. 
Unfortunately, however, they can usually do nothing 
officially. Both friendly suggestions and simple reports 
appear to cause irritation and resentment on the part of 
relieving officers and all officials connected with the poor 
law administration. One would imagine, from common- 
sense principles, that there should be the closest intimacy 
between the public health organisation and the poor law 
work ; in fact it is obvious to those people who have given 
time and attention to the subject that public health and 
poor law work should be practically one public depart- 
ment. But at present it is impossible to imagine any 
two departments more isolated from each other, and the 
public good must continue to suffer until they are brought 
together. 

The machine-like methods adopted in poor law adminis- 
tration are resulting in the overcrowding of workhouses, 
and have increased rather than diminished pauperism. It 
not only, in many cases, robs the poor of the little self- 



410 FOLLOWING-UP AND TREATMENT. 

respect, courage, and independence that the stress of 
circumstances has left to them, but it also makes perma- 
nent paupers of many who, with a little outside assistance, 
would soon be able to hold up their heads before the 
world. Wise and humane discrimination is the essential 
part of successful charitable effort, and the public charity 
which treats all cases alike is as unwise as the private 
generosity which gives to all cases, whether deserving or 
not. The present poor law methods appear to have fostered 
a grovelling and shifty spirit among, the poor, because it is 
found that such characteristics are the surest passports 
to assistance, while the few who have preserved their 
original and sturdy independence, and who constitute the 
very best type of the poor, regard the whole system with 
very obvious horror. 

My reason for introducing this subject is that it is in- 
separably connected with the public health. Poverty and 
disease work on each other in a vicious cycle. Among the 
poor there is a vast amount of infectious illness continually 
present. Many such cases remain unreported, untreated, 
and practically unknown. They serve, however, as a 
continual and ever-present focus for the spread of such 
diseases among the general public. There is thus consti- 
tuted a most grave public danger. 

The only possible way to remove such a danger is to 
devise improved and more easily available means for treat- 
ing these cases. Treatment and prevention are inseparably 
associated in practically all diseases. The one is essentially 
the complement of the other. By adequately providing 
for the early recognition and the proper treatment of all 
disease, an almost incredible improvement in the public 
health would rapidly result. The mere existence of disease, 
altogether apart from any consideration as to whether it 
is accomplished by destitution or not, should be sufficient 



FOLLOWING-HP AND TREATMENT. 411 

to ensure proper medical treatment, if the public are to be 
relieved of the ever-present dread of the sudden and rapid 
spread of infection. 

For ordinary cases requiring relief everyone agrees that 
the closest investigation should always be made in order to 
separate the deserving case from the parasitic type that 
is unfortunately so common. But no such investigation 
should be required in cases of disease. In such instances 
it is not the individual but the public good that should be 
considered, and it is of urgent public importance that all 
such cases should be treated without one moment's delay. 
Only by such methods will a successful attempt be made to 
check the continual spread of disease. 

Further Notices. 

At a subsequent visit to the school, the Medical Inspector 
first sees all cases who have received such notices, and 
records their present condition, and whether medical treat- 
ment has been obtained for those who were in need of it. 
Further notices are issued if still necessary. In this way 
it is possible to keep up constant pressure upon the parents 
in order to cause them either to improve matters them- 
selves, if the case is one needing parental attention only, or 
to seek medical attention through the usual channels. 

By following out the above plan a good deal of improve- 
ment can be brought about, but it is desirable that some 
more continuous information as to the progress of the case 
should be forthcoming. Forms may be supplied to head 
teachers containing a list of the children concerning whom 
notices have been issued, and they are requested to write 
against each name the steps that have been taken towards 
improvement. Cases requiring parental attention (cleanli- 
ness, clothing, etc.) are reported as improved or unchanged 
or worse. Children needing medical attention are reported 



412 FOLLOWING-UP AND TREATMENT. 

to have received the same or not. These report forms pass 
frequently between the teachers and the Medical Officer, 
and give most valuable information as to the progress of 
the cases. In this way it is possible to send more frequent 
notices to parents, and the speed with which improvement 
is brought about in consequence is very greatly accelerated. 

Children requiring Medical Attention. 

The parents of Children found to need medical attention 
receive the following notice : 

Important Notice to the Parents or Guardians of 

The above-named Scholar has been examined during an In- 
spection of the School, and found to be in such a condition as to 
need immediate medical attention. 

You are recommended to give the matter your attention, and to 
obtain medical advice regarding it at once. 

If the parents attend personally, the notice is handed to 
them, and its importance is explained. In their absence 
the notice is placed in an envelope and handed to the child 
to give to its parents. In some cases, the notice is sent by 
post. The condition requiring attention is described in 
general terms only, at the foot of the notice. 

If defective vision is found, a special notice, similarly 
worded, which reads as follows, is given : 

Important Notice to the Parents or Guardians of 

The above-named Scholar has been examined during an In- 
spection of the School, and found to need immediate medical 
attention on account of defective vision. 

You are recommended to give the matter your attention, and to 
obtain medical advice regarding it at once. 

For defective teeth a special notice also is given, which 
is similarly worded in front, and has the following additional 
advice on the back : 

Decay of the teeth is the forerunner and the cause of many 
serious conditions, especially in children. Decayed teeth interfere 



FOLLOWINO-UP AND TREATMENT. 413 

with the nutrition of the child, and so prevent proper physical and 
mental development. Also they cause poisons to be formed in the 
mouth which may inflame and enlarge the glands in the neck, and 
thereby pave the way for tuberculosis or consumption. 

It is also extremely probable that the unhealthy mouth and 
throat which is always associated with decayed teeth causes a child 
to be very susceptible to infectious diseases. 

Children with Defective Vision. 

Children suffering from defective vision receive notices 
on which the parents are urged to obtain the necessary 
treatment. Subsequent notices are sent if no treatment 
has been obtained, and every pressure should be brought 
to bear upon such parents to obtain the necessary treat- 
ment through the ordinary channels. If the parents are 
reported to be unable to obtain treatment on account of 
poverty, the cases may be brought before the notice of the 
Correspondent of the Managers and other local individuals 
who may be likely to help. 

As the result of these efforts, a considerable proportion 
of the children are usually examined properly, and obtain 
spectacles where necessary. Some are able to get the pre- 
scription, but have no money for obtaining glasses. To 
meet such cases, many Education Authorities have entered 
into a contract for the supply of spectacles at special rates. 
The prices are as follows for spectacles with nickel steel 
curled frames : 

s. d. 

With Spherical Lenses ... 22 

With Cylinder Lenses ... 210 

With Sphero- Cylinder Lenses ... 31 

The advantages of this contract are available for the 
parents of any of the children attending the elementary 
schools if they can produce a proper prescription obtained 
either by means of their own efforts through the usual 



414 FOLLOWING-TIP AND TREATMENT. 

channels or from the Medical Inspector as a result of the 
examinations at centres. 

Information concerning the contract and the method of 
procedure should be sent to all head teachers and corre- 
spondents of managers. In many cases the head teachers 
are particularly active in securing prescriptions for the 
affected children, and assisting to raise the necessary funds 
for the purchase of the spectacles. 

These efforts leave a certain proportion of cases without 
prescriptions, and in order to deal with these, the following 
scheme may be arranged. The Medical Officers attend 
at the schools at certain centres, varied from time to time, 
on Saturday mornings in order to examine special eye 
cases, and to issue prescriptions for spectacles if they are 
found to be necessary. To the parents of children who 
need such examination, and live sufficiently near to the 
centre to attend, the following notice is sent : 

To the Parents or Guardians of 

Previous notices have been sent you with regard to your child's 
eyesight, which has been found to be defective. The condition of 
the eyes is likely to become worse by neglect, and it is most im- 
portant for the eyes to be thoroughly examined at once by a Doctor, 
in order to ascertain whether spectacles are necessary, and, if so, 
the kind required. Neglect of the matter may injure the child for 
life. 

Spectacles purchased without a proper medical prescription are 
likely to do more harm than good, and parents are specially warned 
about the danger of purchasing spectacles from chemists or opticians 
without previously obtaining a prescription from a doctor. 

The Medical Inspector will be prepared to examine the eyes 
of your child on day, the day of , 

at 
at o'clock. 

No charge will be made for the examination. If spectacles are 
found to be necessary, a prescription for these will be given. The 
cost of the spectacles will not exceed three shillings and one penny. 

Please sign and return this form to the Head Teacher at once. It 



FOLLOWING-TIP AND TREATMENT. 415 

is important for me to know whether you intend to bring the child 
as requested, and whether you are prepared to pay for the spectacles 
at the time of the examination. 

(Parent's Reply.) 

I intend to bring or send my child as requested, and wish for a 
thorough examination of the eyes to be made. I shall be prepared 
to pay for the spectacles at the time (if they are needed). 
Signed 

At the same time the teacher is sent a notice as 
follows : 

The Medical Inspector will attend at 
on day, the day of 

at o'clock, to examine the eyes 

of children. A notice, in the terms given on the other side hereof, 
has been sent to the parents or guardians of each of the children 
whose names are given below. I shall be glad if you will return to 
me, not later than the , 

all forms received back from parents. If -no reply is received from 
the parents of any child by that date, please inform me of the fact. 

On the back of this letter is a copy of the notice that has 
been sent to the parents. From the replies received from 
teachers it is possible to map out a satisfactory morning's 
work at each centre. 

Parents unable to pay for the glasses at the time of the 
examination receive the following notice : 

To the Parents or Guardians of 

The sight of your child has been carefully examined by the 
Medical Inspector, and glasses are found to be necessary. The 
prescription for the spectacles has been recorded, and they may be 
obtained on payment of 

The money should be sent to me, together with this notice, and 
the glasses will then be forwarded. 

If you are unable to pay for the glasses, application should be 
made at once to the Relieving Officer for your district. 

Important. You are reminded again that the sight is liable to 
get worse, and the child injured and handicapped for life, if the 
matter is neglected. Spectacles shoul.l be obtained without delay. 



416 FOLLOWING-UP AND TREATMENT. 

Ringworm. 

The disease is one which is most difficult to cure even 
when intelligent and persistent treatment is applied. As 
a general rule, however, the treatment undertaken consists 
of the application of various quack remedies supplied by 
chemists, and the case goes on month after month without 
any signs of improvement. The trouble is usually spread 
by a child returning to school almost but not quite cured, 
and in this connection it must be remembered that for the 
purpose of determining the existence of the disease micro- 
scopical examination of the hairs is absolutely essential. 
The disease is not only spread by direct contact between 
infected and healthy children, but also by insufficient 
cloak-room accommodation. 

- In order to stamp out the disease, the following steps 
Y7ould be necessary: (1) The careful and immediate ex- 
clusion of all infected children. Teachers are doing this, 
but are doing it irregularly. Definite instructions should 
be given to teachers to exclude all cases of ringworm, and 
to notify these, together with any suspicious cases, to the 
Medical Officer. They might at the same time give the 
child a copy of instructions to the parents as to the steps 
that should be taken. 

(2) No children once affected by ringworm should be 
re-admitted to school without a medical certificate as to 
freedom from infection. If the plan is to be successful, it 
would be necessary to insist upon hairs from the infected 
part of the scalp being sent to the laboratory of the 
Medical Officer for microscopical examination. Such an 
examination might be undertaken free of charge. It 
would be necessary, however, to arrange some scheme for 
the payment of the medical certificates that would be 
required under this plan. An alternative plan would be 



FOLLOWING-UP AND TREATMENT. 417 

to arrange for all excluded children to be examined by a 
member of the medical staff before being re-admitted. 

(3) Excluded children would have to be very carefully 
followed up either by Attendance Officers or by Health 
Visitors or by the help of Local Committees. Otherwise 
they would be away from school indefinitely without 
adequate treatment being obtained. 

(4) The above plan would probably work satisfactorily, 
but it would entail rather long absences from school, 
particularly in some cases. The period of treatment could 
be very considerably shortened by introducing treatment 
by X-rays. By means of such treatment the necessary 
period is cut down to a minimum. It should be possible 
to arrange for a portable form of such apparatus to move 
from centre to centre until the whole area was clear. In 
towns, of course, one centre would be sufficient. 

Children requiring Parental Attention. 

The parents of children who are found to be neglected 
as regards their cleanliness, clothing, boots, etc., receive 
the following notice : 

Important Notice to the Parents or Guardians of 

The above-named Scholar has been examined during an In- 
spection of the School, and found to be in such a condition as to 
need your immediate attention. 

You are recommended to give the matter your attention at once. 

At the foot of this notice an indication is given as to 
the matter that particularly needs attention from the 
parent. 

Children found with verminous heads receive one of two 
notices which are somewhat differently worded in order to 
meet the needs of the slightly affected and the more badly 
verminous cases respectively. For the less severe cases 
the notice which reads as follows is sent : 

PHY. HY(J, 27 



418 FOLLOWING-TIP AND TREATMENT. 

Private Notice. 

The careful and regular examination of the heads of all Children 
at School has been found necessary in order to ensure more satis- 
factory conditions. 

Your attention is drawn to the fact that there are nits on the 
hair of.. 

On the other side you will find directions for satisfactorily dealing 
with the matter. 

For the more severe cases the following notice is sent : 

Private Notice. 

The careful and regular examination of the heads of all Children 
at School has been found necessary in order to ensure more satis- 
factory conditions. 

Your attention is drawn to the condition of 

head. 

By attending to the directions given on the other side, the head 
can be made quite clear within a week. If the condition is not 
perfectly satisfactory by that time the child will have to be kept 
separated from the others in school until it is remedied. 

On the back of both these notices are printed the 
following clear instructions : 

Treatment of Heads of Children. 

Even clean children are liable to become infected with vermin, 
and it is therefore necessary to carefully examine the hair every 
week or of tener. 

In every case where nits are present on the hair it is advisable 
to crop it short all over, as a great deal of time and trouble is saved 
thereby. 

The treatment to be applied is as follows : 

First Night. Wash the head thoroughly with soft soap and hot 
water and dry it with a dry warm towel. Then rub in sufficient 
Paraffin Oil over the head so as to leave the whole of the Hair 
and Skin completely wet with oil. The oil is left on until the 
next night. 
Caution. Do not use Paraffin near a fire or a naked light. 



FOLLOWING-HP AND TREATMENT. 419 

Second Night. After combing the Hair with a fine-tooth comb, the 
head is thoroughly washed again with soft soap and hot water, 
then dried, and the Paraffin applied as before. 
Third Night. The head is again combed, washed, dried, and the 
oil applied as before. 

In most cases, if the above directions are carried out thoroughly, 
there will be no nits to be found after the third day. The worst 
head can certainly be cured within a week. The head should be 
thoroughly searched for nits, and if any are found the treatment 
must be carried out again each night until the head is perfectly 
clear. 

The presence of crusts or scabs on the head makes the above 
treatment more urgently necessary. The scabs should be carefully 
removed when they are softened by the washing. Iron the collars 
of all the clothes with a hot iron. 

After the head is quite clear it is advisable to follow out the 
above treatment once a week to ensure perfect cleanliness. 

Many of these notices are sent by post direct to the 
parents, particularly in the case of the larger schools. If 
at a subsequent examination an improvement is found, but 
the child is not yet quite clear, a further, notice is sent : 

Private Notice. 

The careful and regular examination of the heads of all Children 
at School has been found to be necessary in order to ensure more 
satisfactory conditions. 

The condition of 

has improved since the date of the previous notice, but it is not yet 
clear of nits. 

On the other side you will find directions for satisfactorily dealing 
with the matter. 

If, on the other hand, the child continues to be in a 
badly verminous condition after frequent notices, a final 
notice is sent : 

Second Warning. 
To the Parents or Guardians of 

As the Private Notice sent you with regard to this Child's Head 
has been disregarded, the Child has now been separated from other 



420 POLLOWING-UP AND TREATMENT. 

Children in school as unfit to be in the ordinary class. You are 
again requested to remedy the unsatisfactory condition within the 
next week. If you fail to do so the Child will be excluded from 
school, and you will be liable to prosecution and fine for not sending 
it in a fit state to school. 

A good method of treatment is given on the other side of this 
card. 

For parents in whom it is possible to awaken a sense of 
responsibility, these notices are quite sufficient, and the 
child is sent to school clean. Among a considerable per- 
centage, however, they have no effect. In such cases the 
child either continues to attend school in its original 
verminous condition, or, if it has been excluded, returns 
after a few days' absence without any improvement. 

The latter constitute the worst type of child and 
parent, viz. the child of the defiantly and persistently dirty 
mother. These families are in many instances for years 
a continual source of trouble to the teacher and to the 
clean families, and all efforts to bring about improve- 
ment or to awaken any sense of responsibility in the 
parents are in vain. Previous to the day of the medical 
inspection at the school, these parents (in accordance with 
the instructions of the Board of Education) receive notice 
of the visit of the Medical Inspector. In nearly every case 
they either keep the child (or children) at home during 
that day, or bring about a temporary improvement suffi- 
cient to pass muster, but soon to return to their previous 
condition. It should be borne in mind that so long as 
there are a few persistently verminous children in a school, 
it is impossible to prevent the other children being con- 
tinually infected. 

It is obvious, therefore, that the scheme of medical 
inspection outlined by the Board of Education would by 
itself prove entirely a failure so far as any permanent im- 
provement of the verminous conditions in the schools is 



FOLLOWING-TTP AND TREATMENT. 421 

concerned. Even very frequent medical inspections would, 
as shown above, fail to bring about the desired results, 
because the bad cases would be merely kept at home on 
that day. Moreover, frequent medical inspections are not 
practicable in a county area, and would, in addition, 
seriously interfere with the school routine. 

Shortly after the commencement of the work of medical 
inspection, it became apparent that additional and more 
regular information concerning the condition of the ver- 
minous children was indispensable, in order that the sense 
of responsibility of the neglectful parents might be aroused 
or definite pressure brought to bear upon them to cause 
them to bring about improvement. It was found, however, 
that the difficulties in the way were apparently insuperable. 
Even if one of the medical staff was able to pay a few 
surprise visits to schools, his legal position in making a 
thorough examination of any children was extremely 
doubtful and unpleasant. The teachers, in a great 
majority of cases, were perfectly willing to assist in any 
scheme for bringing about an improvement in the cleanli- 
ness of the children, but they, in their turn, were uncertain 
of their legal position, and it was not considered fair to 
ask their help while such was the condition of affairs. 
All these difficulties were removed by Section 122 of the 
Children Act, 1908, which came into operation on April 
1st, 1909. 

Section 122, Children Act. 

This Section can be made of some use in connection 
with the work of medical inspection, as it gives a definite 
and direct power to the School Medical Officer or any 
person acting under his authority to examine at any time 
the person and clothing of any child attending school. 
If the person or clothing of any such child is found 



422 FOLLOWINQ-UP AND TREATMENT. 

to be infected with vermin or in a foul or filthy con- 
dition, notice can be sent to the parent requiring him to 
cleanse properly the person and clothing of the child within 
twenty-four hours. If this notice is not complied with, 
the person and clothing of the child may be cleansed by 
any person acting under the authority of the School Medical 
Officer. Many Education Authorities are arranging to carry 
out this cleansing process upon some part of the school 
premises in those districts where public baths are not 
available. 

A somewhat unsatisfactory point about this Section is 
that no punishment is provided for the careless parent 
until the child has been cleansed by the Education 
Authority as described above and has been allowed to get 
into a dirty condition again. Many Authorities will there- 
fore probably decide to continue to deal with such cases as 
they are doing at present. 

This Section also definitely establishes the legal position 
of the Medical Officer when examining these children on 
the occasion of surprise visits to schools. Also, with the 
approval of the Committee, there can be given to those 
head teachers who have expressed their desire to help an 
authority to examine, thereby making their legal position 
perfectly clear. In county areas it is hardly practicable at 
present to use Section 122 of the Children Act any further 
than the acquirement by it of the right to examine children 
in the public elementary schools, with a view to ascertain- 
ing their cleanliness. In fact, any further action under this 
Section is impossible in most county areas. The authority 
to examine under the Section merely establishes the legal 
position of the teachers, and enables them to report upon 
the subsequent condition of children who at the time of the 
medical inspection have been found to be verminous, and 
also those habitually verminous children who have evaded 



AND TREATMENT. 423 

the inspection, and who could continue to evade it for an 
indefinite period. 

When, at the time of the medical inspection, a child is 
found to show evidence of vermin, a notice is given. Very 
bad cases are excluded for a specified period. After a 
reasonable interval usually about a fortnight, a list of 
these children is sent to the teacher, with a request that 
the children may be examined and their present condition 
reported. Parents whose children show no improvement 
are then sent a stronger notice, and the teacher again 
reports upon their condition after another interval. The 
parents of children who are still unsatisfactory receive 
another of these notices, and this process is repeated, when 
necessary, several times. In this way it is possible to 
awaken some sense of responsibility in most of the parents 
and most of the children are reported " clean " after a few 
weeks. 

There still remain untreated and unimproved the chil- 
dren of persistently and defiantly dirty parents who can 
only recognise and appreciate compulsion. To these are 
issued the final notice. If, after the expiration of another 
week, its condition is not improved, the teacher is in- 
structed to exclude the child from school, and the case is 
reported for prosecution under the attendance bye-laws. 
The powers conferred by Section 122 of the Children Act 
have changed the vague and indefinite possibilities of this 
work as included in the general scheme of medical inspec- 
tion into the definite and precise action outlined above. 
Without these powers the difficulties in a county area 
would have been almost insuperable, and the time of the 
Medical Inspector would have been taken up year after 
year in sending useless and disregarded notices to the same 
parents. 



424 FOLLOWING-UP AND TREATMEN*. 

Section 12, Children Act. 

Section 12 of the Children Act, 1908, gives certain power 
of action against wilfully neglectful parents. Failure to 
provide medical aid, or, if being unable to provide medical 
aid, failure to take steps to procure the same under the 
Acts relating to the relief of the poor, is specially men- 
tioned as one kind of neglect. When all ordinary means 
by notices and by local persuasion have failed, this Section 
should provide a very valuable means of compelling care- 
less and neglectful parents to assume their proper respon- 
sibility to their children. There is no doubt that quite a 
large number of parents are deliberately neglecting their 
children, and only some such treatment will bring them to 
reason. 

District Sub-Committees. 

The formation of special sub-committees for dealing with 
cases discovered by the inspection is greatly to be desired. 
Persons should be chosen who, besides being educationists, 
are interested in health questions, or who occupy positions 
which enable them to influence philanthropic or charitable 
agencies for the amelioration of conditions of defective 
eyesight, teeth, or hearing, and for treatment in general. 
Deficient food and clothing are also matters that will cer- 
tainly occupy the attention of such a committee. 

A great amount of good could be done by properly 
organising existing local energies and charities, and by 
directing the attention of local philanthropic persons to- 
wards these special cases. Probably a great deal of phil- 
anthropic effort is being wasted at the present time by 
being directed towards undeserving and unsuitable cases 
or in aid of unnecessary treatment. 

If the Managers of each school could be induced to take 
an active interest in this work, there should be no difficulty 



FOLLO WING-UP AND TREATMENT. 425 

in the formation of a small local Committee from among 
them. The work of such a Committee would be to under- 
take to report upon the list of special cases that have been 
discovered at the school, and to ascertain by visits the cir- 
cumstance of each case. The Committee would also be 
able to direct local charities and philanthropic efforts 
towards these cases. Tact and sympathetic handling would, 
of course, be essential for success, and the work should 
therefore only be attempted by those who are keenly inter- 
ested in the physical improvement of the children. 

The detection and tabulation of defects among the 
children in the country have now proceeded for sufficient 
time for the accumulation of a mass of material that 
requires to be dealt with in some such way as has been 
outlined above. Such detection and tabulation, although 
an essential part of the scheme, should be regarded merely 
as its introduction. 

Many of the conditions requiring immediate medical 
attention (defects of vision, defective teeth, skin diseases, 
enlarged tonsils, adenoids, etc.) are regarded by a great 
number of the parents with indifference and unconcern. 
One of the effects of the work of a local Committee would 
be the education of these parents, so that they might ap- 
preciate the gravity of such conditions, and be helped to 
understand the fact that the future life of the child will be 
very largely influenced by the amount of attention it obtains 
during childhood. 

Some practical results are obtained without difficulty, 
but there usually remain a large number of cases that 
can only be dealt with by some local organised effort. If 
this can be brought about, the definite practical results of 
the scheme of medical inspection will be obvious to every- 
one, and criticisms that may occasionally be fairly directed 
towards the scheme will then be groundless. 



426 tOLLOWING-UP AND TREATMENT. 

Organisation of the Work of Attendance Officers. 

A considerable amount of help could be given by the 
proper organisation of the work of attendance officers. At 
present these officials have to visit the homes of absentee 
children, and it is not unreasonable therefore to suggest 
that they might visit the homes of special cases, par- 
ticularly excluded children, in order to ascertain what 
treatment, if any, is being employed. Begular reports 
concerning such cases would be of the greatest possible 
help, and would enable proper pressure to be brought to 
bear upon neglectful parents in order that they might 
secure the necessary treatment. Also attendance officers 
should be required to report dirty, overcrowded, or in- 
sanitary houses that come to their notice. In fact there 
appears good reason to expect that in the near future the 
attendance officers will form an important part of the staff 
of the school medical officer. 

The above is intended merely as a suggestive outline of 
work to be performed. It is undoubtedly capable of almost 
indefinite improvement and extension; ,but, judging from 
the gratifying thanks received by the writer from medical 
officers to whom he has explained the methods used by 
him, it may prove to be useful in some cases. 



CHAPTER IV. 



GENEEAL AMELIORATION. 

IN connection with the subject of amelioration it must 
be remembered that prevention plays at least as important 
a part as actual treatment, and that both prevention and 
treatment should be regarded as public health work. 

PREVENTION. 

(1) Before School Age. A large proportion of the 
defects, diseases, and unsatisfactory conditions are un- 
doubtedly present before the child reaches school. They 
are largely due to the carelessness and ignorance of parents, 
deficient or improper food, and, to a limited extent, to 
insanitary home conditions. The prevention of these is 
obviously a very broad subject, but it may be advisable 
to suggest here that a great improvement would take place 
in the next generation if the education of the older girls 
at the schools were altogether revised and made to bear 
more particularly upon their future life. Most of these 
girls have no chance of any proper home education, and 
their education at school does not help them in any way to 
become better wives and mothers. 

By means of a complete system of co-operation between 
the Medical Officers of Health and School Medical Officers 
it is possible to get defective home conditions dealt with as 

427 



428 GENERAL AMELIORATION. 

soon as they are discovered. At the medical inspection 
of children many are discovered whose condition leads one 
to suspect that the home conditions may be unsatisfactory, 
and concerning, such cases the advice and help of the 
Medical Officer of Health are sought at once, and are 
always available. The visits of the Medical Officer of 
Health or the Sanitary Inspector to these houses often 
leads to the discovery of younger children, below school 
age, in a neglected, dirty, and diseased condition. It has 
been possible to deal with many such cases, and to bring 
about a considerable improvement. 

Another very important matter is the obvious lack of 
proper medical assistance to poor people. The Poor Law 
medical service is available only for those who are destitute 
and are willing to receive the brand of pauperism. Between 
these people and those who have the means to provide 
proper medical attention there are vast numbers who are 
just able to afford the bare necessaries for existence, and 
who cannot possibly provide medical attention for them- 
selves or for their children. The result is that minor 
defects and maladies are neglected' or are treated by 
chemists or quacks, with the result that by the time school 
age is reached a considerable proportion of the children are 
injured and handicapped for life. The only remedy for 
this is the entire reorganisation of the Poor Law medical 
service, and the provision of a proper medical service avail- 
able for all peopJe who are unable to provide the same. 

(2) At School Age. Similar remarks apply to the 
needs of children of school age. The additional means of 
preventing the production or aggravation of defects during 
school age are mainly improvements in school conditions. 
Defective vision, curved spines, nervous conditions, and 
the spread of infectious maladies may be fairly attributed 
to defective lighting, improper desks, over-pre'ssure, and 



GENERAL AMELIORATION. 429 

lack of proper space and ventilation respectively in the 
schools. A considerable amount of prevention is possible 
by improving the lighting, warming, cleanliness, equip- 
ment, and sanitation of the schools. More active measures 
would include an alteration in the school curriculum in 
conformity with modern views, and the introduction of 
adequate exercises and games as part of the school time 
tables. It is, for example, astonishing to find still that 
sewing is taught children under seven years of age in spite 
of the vast amount of discussion that has taken place and 
warning that has been given in connection with the subject. 

TREATMENT. 

The possible methods of treatment may be divided into 
(1) use of existing agencies and (2) direct treatment by an 
Education or Sanitary Authority. The Board of Education 
suggest consideration of existing agencies as far as possible 
in any scheme of treatment. The existing agencies for the 
provision of medical and surgical treatment are the local 
doctors and dentists, hospitals and dispensaries, medical 
clubs, and the Poor Law medical service. 

Local Doctors and Dentists. The ordinary notices that 
are sent to the parents undoubtedly cause a proportion of 
these to pay a visit to the local doctor. Many of them go, 
although they are not in a position to pay, and there is no 
doubt that in several cases treatment is obtained without 
the doctor having any prospect of pay for his services. On 
the other hand, it must be remembered that for the treat- 
ment of many of our cases the local medical men make no 
provision. Few of them undertake the detailed examina- 
tion of eyes or the operative treatment for tonsils and 
adenoids, because they have found in the past that the 
remuneration that they are able to get is totally inadequate 
for such extensive provision and skilled work. I have no 



430 GENERAL AMELIORATION. 

doubt that many of them would be very glad to undertake 
the work, and would do it well, if they could be sure of 
adequate pay. Dentists are practically unknown in the 
small villages unless a large village or town is near. A 
good deal of work for them could be found in most districts 
as the results of inspection, and I have no doubt that the 
supply would very quickly equal the demand if there were 
any provision for remuneration. 

Hospitals. The hospitals have dealt with a very large 
number of cases that have been discovered by the inspection 
of the schools, but they are very naturally protesting against 
the increase of work, and are pointing out that such public 
work ought not to be provided for by an extension of the 
gratuitous work of the medical staff. Several of them have 
also very forcibly expressed the opinion that it is not their 
legitimate duty to enter into business arrangements with a 
public authority. It will be, therefore, necessary in the 
near future to organise our schemes without reference to 
hospitals. The medical men attached to such hospitals 
have in the past given their services freely because other 
philanthropic people have been providing the necessary 
funds for the upkeep of the various institutions. As soon 
as public money is devoted to their maintenance, such an 
arrangement must be altogether upset, and the establish- 
ment ceases to be purely philanthropic. 

Poor Law. The Poor Law medical service is, or should 
be, available for certain cases. The attention of G-uardians 
is often drawn to special cases, and in some instances 
treatment has been obtained. The provision of spectacles 
for poor children has been made by some Guardians. Some 
Boards of G-uardians have made a special arrangement for 
the operative treatment of cases of tonsils and adenoids, 
and are paying a special fee to their medical officers for 
such cases. 



GENERAL AMELIORATION. 431 

Assistance to Parents. Under the Education (Adminis- 
trative Provisions) Act, 1907, Education Authorities appar- 
ently have power to present to the Board schemes dealing 
with medical treatment. Such a scheme might involve 
monetary assistance to parents for such purposes as the 
provision of spectacles, surgical boots, or grants towards 
special medical or surgical treatment. Of course, the 
exercise of a great deal of care would be necessary in deal- 
ing with these grants, and the work might be simplified if 
help from local Committees such as I have suggested were 
forthcoming. Local Committees could be required to satisfy 
the County Authorities that every effort had been made to 
deal with the case by other means and that all efforts had 
failed. The need of such funds is very obvious to those 
who are actually engaged in the work. Some districts 
are well provided for either by local charitable funds or 
philanthropic persons, while in others there are no such 
advantages, and appeal to the Poor Law Authority is 
met with a curt refusal. 



DIRECT TREATMENT. 

(I.) Treatment of Verminous Children. 

Section 122 of the Children Act, 1908, gives power to 
an Education Authority to remove any child to suitable 
premises, and there properly clean the person and clothing 
of such child after giving twenty -four hours' notice to the 
parent. In most county areas facilities for dealing with 
children under this Section will be extremely limited, 
and in order that the matter may be attended to satis- 
factorily, it would be necessary to provide at new schools 
some form of bath, and also apparatus for sterilising 
clothing. 



432 GENERAL AMELIORATION. 

(II.) Provision of Health Visitors. 

I have already pointed out that in my opinion there is 
no necessity for or advantage from the visits of nurses to 
schools, and the smooth working of the scheme of medical 
inspection in Hampshire and other areas proves conclu- 
sively that at all events they are not indispensable. They 
can, however, be undoubtedly of help in following up and 
in visiting the homes of the special children discovered at 
the medical inspection. If this is to be their duty, they 
should be called Health Visitors, and they should be part 
of the staff of the Health Committee. Their work would 
be entirely a health matter, and could not be claimed to 
have any real relationship to education. 

The duties of these nurses would be : 

(1) To visit cases of (a) uncleanliness, neglect, verminous 
conditions of head, body, or clothing, with a view to giving 
advice and assistance to parents, and to report progress ; 
(6) cases of ringworm, scabies, and impetigo, in order to 
ascertain the nature of the treatment provided. 

(2) To visit the homes of all children the examination 
of whom leads the Medical Inspector to suspect that the 
home conditions are bad or that the parents are neglectful. 

(3) To report to the local Medical Officer of Health all 
cases of infectious disease, insanitary houses, overcrowding, 
etc., that are met with in the course of these visits. 

(4) The services of the nurses would be available to 
treat, under the direction of the local doctor, cases of dis- 
charging ears, inflamed eyes, etc. 

(III.) Provision of Medical Treatment. 

I have already pointed out that a very large number of 
people are quite unable to afford proper medical attention 
and treatment, and yet are unable or unwilling to obtain 
such treatment through the Poor Law. The methods I 



GENERAL AMELIORATION. 433 

have outlined above would undoubtedly ameliorate the 
condition of these people, but probably the only complete 
and really satisfactory solution of the difficulty would be 
by the provision of some public medical service quite 
independent of guardians, available for those whose means 
are obviously incapable of providing the same. 

Attempt to make some such provision is now being 
made by some Authorities by the establishment of school 
clinics, which provide the treatment for persons of school 
age. The defects usually attended to at the school clinic 
are defective vision, ear discharges, ringworm, sores of all 
kinds, e.g. sore heads, impetigo, scabies, sore eyes and 
eyelids. This would leave untouched cases requiring 
operations for tonsils and adenoids and attention to teeth } 
which cases are at present causing us considerable difficulty. 
On the other hand, it is obvious that the school clinic once 
established would be able to extend its work to the treat- 
ment of those conditions. " The chief advantage of the 
school clinic is that it ensures the treatment of such 
diseases among those children who at the present time are 
neglected. Cases of ringworm, sore heads, sore eyes, 
running ears, etc., which at present remain untreated and 
unimproved for months at a time, can be dealt with and 
cleared up promptly. 

Of course, vigilance could be exercised in order to 
prevent persons able to pay for medical treatment from 
obtaining treatment at the school clinic. If any such were 
found to have obtained treatment, it would be possible for 
the Education Authority to recover the cost of such treat- 
ment summarily as a civil debt from the parent under the 
Local Education Authorities Medical Treatment Act, 1909. 
The recovery of this from some cases would probably act 
as a sufficient deterrent in others. 

Another method of providing direct medical attention 

PHY. HYQ. 28 



434 GENERAL AMELIORATION. 

for those children who are found to be needing it, but 
whose parents are quite unable to provide the same, would 
be by means of some form of "voucher" system. After 
careful and thorough investigation of the circumstances of 
the parents, and after all efforts to obtain assistance 
through local philanthropic funds or persons had failed, 
an excellent plan would be to hand to the parents a 
voucher which could be presented to any local man, who 
would thereby be assured of definite payment for his 
services, and who would therefore promptly proceed with 
the necessary treatment. 

In order to organise successfully any such scheme, it 
would be necessary to come to some arrangement with 
the local divisions of the British Medical Association as to 
the fixed terms that would be accepted. I recommend this 
suggestion to the very careful consideration of the Educa- 
tion Committee. The number of cases to be treated by 
this method would not be unreasonably great, while it 
would be extremely valuable to have such a possibility in 
reserve when all efforts to obtain treatment had failed. 

(IV.) Provision for Specially Defective Children. 

(a) Blind and Deaf Children. Provision may be made 
for blind and deaf children under the powers contained in 
the Elementary Education (Blind and Deaf Children) Act, 
1893. 

Blind Children. There are 25 residential schools and 
15 day schools for blind children in England and Wales, 
accommodating about 1,500 children. 

The chief cause of blindness among children is neglected 
or improperly treated ophthalmia soon after birth. It is 
no exaggeration to say that nearly one-half of the blind 
children are thus handicapped by sheer ignorance and 
carelessness. Another important cause is neglected or 



GENERAL AMELIORATION. 485 

improperly treated ulceration or inflammation of the 
cornea, resulting in opacity. Similarly, disease of the 
retina or optic nerve, if not promptly and efficiently treated, 
is likely to end in blindness. The prevention of this con- 
dition therefore resolves itself into adequate and prompt 
medical treatment. 

It is being gradually realised that a day school is un- 
suitable for the training of blind children, and that the 
residential school is the only satisfactory provision to make 
up for such cases. Children not really blind, but incapable 
of seeing sufficiently well to be taught in ordinary schools, 
should be collected and taught in special classes where 
such a course is practicable. 

Deaf Children. For these children there are 20 residen- 
tial schools and 28 day schools in England and Wales, 
accommodating about 3,100 children. In about one-half 
of the cases the defect is congenital, and in the other half 
it is caused, early in life, by such diseases as scarlet fever, 
measles, and meningitis. The congenital defects could be 
reduced by preventing such persons marrying, and the 
others by providing efficient and early medical treatment 
for such cases. 

For educational purposes, residential schools possess 
many advantages over the day schools. 

In most schools children will be discovered who are not 
quite deaf, but whose hearing is not sufficiently acute to 
make it possible to educate them with normal children. 
For such children special classes should be formed at 
convenient centres. 

(fc) Physically Defective Children. More than half of 
the " crippled " children have been attacked by tuberculosis 
of spine, hip, knee, and other bones and joints. The pro- 
vision for the education of such children is necessarily 
inadequate on account of the obvious difficulties in the 



436 GENERAL AMELIORATION. 

way. In large centres it is possible to collect many of 
them daily and convey them to a special school, taking them 
home in the afternoon. The kind of school most suitable 
is the type known as the Open-air Recovery School. 

By providing efficient and adequate medical treatment 
it would be possible to diminish these cases by more than 
one half. 

(c) Feeble-minded Children. The Eoyal Commission on 
the Care and Control of the Feeble-minded reported in 1908. 
They recommended among other things that there be one 
Central Authority for the general protection and supervision 
of mentally defective persons, and for the regulation of 
the provision made for their accommodation, maintenance, 
care, treatment, and control. This means that such chil- 
dren would be relieved from the authority of the Board of 
Education and the Education Department. 

The Minority Report of the Royal Commission on the 
Poor Law declare that the continued detention in the 
general mixed workhouses of no fewer than 60,000 men- 
tally defective persons herded indiscriminately with the 
sane amounts to a public scandal. The Majority Report 
also is in favour of the speedy enforcement of the pro- 
posals of the earlier Commission. If their proposals were 
carried out, a Committee of the Counly Council would be 
appointed who would have charge of all such cases, includ- 
ing those who are insane. The actual recommendations of 
the Commission are as follows : 

With regard to education, the Commissioners recommend that the 
portions of the defective and Epileptic Children Act which relate to 
mentally defective children should be repealed, and that it should 
be made a statutory duty of the above-mentioned County Committee 
for the Care of the Mentally Defective to provide manual, indus- 
trial, and other training for mentally defective children of all grades. 
The local Education Authority would be required to notify to this 
Committee any children thought to be mentally defective, who 



GENERAL AMELIORATION. 437 

would then be examined by the Medical Officer and reported on by 
him to the Committee, and, if necessary, kept under observation in 
special schools in order to ascertain whether they should be 
returned to the normal schools, kept in special schools, or sent to 
boarding institutions. The Committee would be empowered to 
take over all the special schools or classes from the Education Au- 
thority, or to contract with that Authority to train children ; such 
schools would then be taken out of the hands of the Board of Edu- 
cation, and would be under the supervision and inspection of the 
Board of Control. The Committee would also have power to com- 
pel parents to send their mentally defective children to any school 
or institution which the Committee considered best suited to their 
needs, whether a day school or a residential institution. 

Evidently there is an urgent necessity for giving legis- 
lative effect at any rate to the most important recommen- 
dations of the Commission. As a result of want of control 
over both male and female feeble-minded persons, the evil 
is tending steadily to grow. What is imperative is power 
to take possession of the feeble-minded, and to prevent 
them from becoming, by reason of their irresponsibility, 
the transmitters of the evil, or perpetrators of crime. 

The principle adopted by the Commission was that those 
"who cannot take part in the struggle of life owing to 
mental defects, whether they are described as lunatics or 
as persons of unsound mind, idiots, feeble-minded, or other- 
wise, should be afforded by the State special protection as 
may be suited to their needs." At the present time, the 
weak, feeble, and criminal types are increasing at the 
expense of the strong, hard-working, and the capable. 
Postponement of the problem will only result in increasing 
this difficulty and its expense. Almost one half of the 
mentally defective have inherited the taint directly from 
their parents, and it has been admitted that nearly 70,000 
mentally defective persons in this country are in need of 
segregation, not only in their own interest, but also in 
that of the more normal of the community. 



438 GENERAL AMELIORATION. 

At the present time there is very little obvious advantage 
in undertaking costly experiments in the education, real or 
imaginary, of mentally defective children. As soon as 
they leave the education centres to which they have been 
drafted, the great majority of them return, little improved, 
and eventually hand on their curse to their unfortunate 
children, as well as, in a considerable number of cases, 
helping to swell the number of criminals that have to be 
dealt with. It is quite true that a very small proportion 
of the more promising of these cases do, with special 
education, become almost normal, and actually return 
to the ordinary school for the completion of their 
education. 

Even with this advantage, however, it is impossible con- 
scientiously to advise the expenditure of large sums of 
public money upon the education and training of these 
unfortunate children until definite legal power has been 
given to a properly appointed body to supervise them and 
control them during the whole of their lives if necessary. 
My own personal experience in dealing with such cases is 
that considerably more than half of such money, under the 
present system, is entirely wasted, owing to the fact that 
these children escape all control just at the age when they 
are most likely to become dangerous and still more expen- 
sive to the community. 

It is only necessary to examine criminal statistics to 
realise how many of the feeble-minded commit various 
offences against the law. At the present time the prisons 
contain hundreds of persons belonging to the feeble-minded 
class, who ought to have been segregated from their youth, 
in order to prevent them from committing crime, and so 
that their curse may die with them. 

There appears to be a larger number of mental derelicts 
in rural districts than in large towns. Also rural districts 



GENERAL AMELIORATION. 439 

vary very considerably among themselves, the more isolated 
villages usually being the worst affected, probably owing 
to continuous intermarriage. The larger proportion of 
dull and defective children in country districts is probably 
due to the fact that the towns take continual toll of those 
members of the population who are better equipped 
mentally, and are more reliant and active than the 
average. 

(d) Word-blind and Word-deaf Children. These chil- 
dren must be carefully distinguished from those who are 
altogether incapable of ordinary education. They have 
already been referred to as children unable to interpret 
either the written or the spoken word, while, for all other 
purposes, sight or hearing are perfect. Word-blindness 
is more common than word-deafness. The defect is due 
to some deficiency in the parts of the brain cortex which 
should store up the memories of word sounds and word 
images. 

(e) Defective and Epileptic Children. Authorities have 
power under the Elementary Education (Defective and 
Epileptic Children) Act, 1899, to make arrangements for 
the education of mentally and physically defective and also 
of epileptic children. Unfortunately the Board of Educa- 
tion have decided that the Local Education Authority 
have no power to treat individual cases without taking 
the preliminary step of adopting the Act for their whole 
area. 

(V.) Provision of Meals. 

The provision of meals under the Education (Provision 
of Meals) Act should undoubtedly be regarded as an im- 
portant ameliorative measure. This work is discussed 
elsewhere in this volume. 



440 GENERAL AMELIORATION. 

(VI.) Provision of Open Air Schools. 

Another important ameliorative factor is the "Open 
Air School" which has been established by many Local 
Education Authorities. In these schools the children are 
taught as much as possible in the open air, and have one 
or two meals at the school. Proper intervals for rest are 
arranged. The " school " need only consist of a roofed 
building open in front and behind, with end walls, if a 
house or cottage is available for the preparation of food. 
All children admitted to such schools have to be specially 
certified by the School Medical Officer as being in need of 
some definite treatment of this kind. It is possible to 
permit the attendance of children at these schools who 
could not be permitted to attend an ordinary school, and 
astonishingly good results can be obtained with underfed, 
neglected children, and those who have a tendency to 
consumption. 

Obviously the "open air school" is more essential for, 
and more easily organised in, large towns than county 
areas. Nevertheless it should be by no means impossible, 
nor necessarily very expensive, to arrange for one or two of 
such schools to be started, on a small and simple scale, in 
county areas. They could be tried first in those districts 
where there have been already found a number of children 
likely to benefit thereby. 

(VII.) School Baths. 

An important ameliorative influence will be introduced 
by the provision of school baths. 

(VIII.) Other Ameliorative Work. 

Important items in the work of the medical officer 
must include : . 



GENERAL AMELIORATION. 441 

(a) The exclusion of affected children, supervision 
and examination of " contacts," and disinfection 
of schoolrooms, in order to check the spread of 
infectious disease. 

(5) The oversight of the sanitation of the school 
buildings. 

(c) The organisation of a systematic supervision of 

the personal and home life of the child. 

(d) The stimulation of public interest locally towards 

the important problem of defective nutrition in 
children. 



CHAPTER V. 

COMMON AILMENTS AND CONDITIONS. 
ANAEMIA. 

A LARGE proportion of town children (boys and girls) are 
suffering from a deficient vitality that appears to be caused 
mainly by a diminution of the number of red corpuscles in 
the blood. Such a condition constitutes one of the forms 
of anaemia. It is brought about by badly ventilated rooms, 
by improper food, by insufficient sleep and exercise in the 
open air. The crimson colour of the lips diminishes in 
intensity and in the worse forms becomes pallid ; the child 
becomes languid, drowsy, and disinclined for exertion, and 
is quickly fatigued ; headaches and fainting attacks become 
common ; the appetite diminishes and becomes morbid, 
indigestible messes being preferred to solid food, and 
occasionally a fondness for slate pencil, chalk, or coal is 
developed. Such children should receive medical attention, 
and all the teacher can do is to see that the rooms are well 
ventilated and that the child is excused part of the lessons 
and encouraged to take exercise in the open air. 

BONE CONDITIONS 

1. Curved Spine. 

The association of this condition with the badly con- 
structed desks has already been discussed. A lateral curva- 
ture is not at all uncommon among children of over twelve 

442 



COMMON AILMENTS AND CONDITIONS. 443 

years. All kinds of work or any desks that conduce to 
improper attitudes of standing or sitting are active causes 
of the deformity. Other causes include the habitual use 
of a high pillow in bed, so that the spine is bent when the 
child is lying asleep on its side, and the carrying of a 
heavy satchel. By keeping a vigilant eye on the children's 
attitudes a teacher can do much to prevent such deformities 
developing, and by careful physical exercises may help to 
remedy the defect when produced. More serious curvatures 
are those caused by rickets and by tuberculous disease of 
the bones. In the latter case the curve is usually more 
acute than in the former. There is also a tendency to 
special stiffness of the spine, particularly in the affected 
region. 

2. Flat Foot. 

This is another condition commonly caused by rickets. 
It is nearly always an acquired condition and is often found 
in weakly children about twelve years old. The muscles 
of the foot and the ligaments that support the bony arch 
of the instep become weakened by rickets or rheumatism, 
or by general conditions, such as acute fevers, with the 
result that the arch flattens down. The condition can be 
greatly improved, in many cases, by skipping exercises on 
the toes, and by exercises causing the body to be raised on 
tip-toe several times in succession. It should always 
receive attention, as it develops into a most painful con- 
dition and will be much more difficult to cure later on. 

3. Affected Joints. 

The commonest joint disease in schools is tuberculosis. 
The tuberculous joint exists in many varieties, and only a 
medical man can decide whether a joint is tuberculous or 



444 COMMON AILMENTS AND CONDITIONS. 

not. The hip and the knee are often affected. If a child 
is seen to be getting into a habit of standing with the 
weight of the body mainly on one leg, and rests one foot 
on the other, the medical officer's attention should be called 
to the fact. Limping, dragging, or rigidity of joints show 
that the disease is getting well advanced. There may be 
pain in the hip or knee. 

The condition should receive immediate attention, and 
the child should be excluded from school altogether. 

4. Rickets. 

Rickets is a disease of very common occurrence in schools 
in poor districts. It particularly affects the children who 
suffer from the effects of bad feeding, incorrect feeding, 
and bad housing conditions. Special common causes 
include feeding upon condensed milk during infancy, 
deficiency of fresh milk, deficiency of fats, excess of starchy 
food, lack of fresh air, etc. The effects are probably 
caused by certain poisonous materials that are formed in 
the stomach or intestines by bacterial action. The rickety 
child is usually distinguished by certain signs that are the 
effects of the disease upon the body. These are the square 
head ; the beaded ribs ; the narrow and constricted chest ; 
curved spine and bent legs ; enlarged wrists, ankles, or 
knees ; knock-knee or flat-foot ; brittleness of bones, pre- 
disposing to fracture; general enfeeblement and pallor, 
and delayed development ; and a marked liability to catch 
cold and acquire various diseases, particularly lung diseases. 

The most important matter is to correct the general 
home conditions, and this is usually impossible. In school 
the child should receive extra consideration, should not be 
over- worked, and should be excused much standing. Care- 
ful physical exercises and plenty of play in the open air 
will do much to improve matters. 



COMMON AILMENTS AND CONDITIONS. 445 

CHILLS AND COLDS. 

Children improperly clothed, and especially those who 
are shut up in overheated and badly ventilated rooms, are 
liable to chills and colds. These may develop in their turn 
into severe illness. Severe " cold in the head " appears to 
be a highly infectious disorder, and any child with obvious 
symptoms of such should be sent home. 

CHOREA OR ST. VITUS' DANCE. 

Chorea is a severe nervous disorder which is common 
among school children over seven years old. It is probably 
caused by some special form of bacterial life and is usually 
associated with rheumatism. Sometimes it follows the 
acute fevers scarlet fever, measles, whooping cough 
and occasionally is said to follow a fright or shock. Badly 
decayed teeth are common among children suffering from 
chorea. 

In mild cases the child may simply appear to be clumsy 
and awkward,- but in the more marked and severe forms 
there are very obvious signs which vary according to the 
part of the body involved. The muscular twitchings may 
be limited to the face, or one limb, or one side of the body, 
or they may be general. If the face is affected the child 
appears to be continually " making faces," on account of 
the curious jerkings and twitchings of the muscles of the 
lips, nose, eyes, and cheeks. The speech is often affected. 
When asked to put out his tongue such a child usually 
jerks it out and in again and snaps together the teeth. 
All the movements of this disease are increased in in- 
tensity by excitement or by the knowledge that anyone is 
watching. 

When the arms or legs are affected there is usually a 



446 COMMON AILMENTS AND CONDITIONS. 

constantly repeated, purposeless movement caused by the 
contraction of the same muscles over and over again. The 
child is never at rest. Mentally the child is in the same 
condition, being unable to concentrate his attention, besides 
being morbid, excitable, irritable, and quarrelsome. 

The condition often lasts about ten or twelve weeks, and 
the child is unfit to attend school during the whole of the 
period. School work will only tend to intensify the ill 
effects, and no child should be allowed to return to school 
while the slightest trace of the signs is noticeable. 



DIARRHOEA. 

Diarrhoea among children commonly assumes an epi- 
demic character during the later summer months. The 
disease is more prevalent during a hot dry summer than in 
cold and wet ones. Usually a marked connection can be 
traced between the temperature of the soil and the number 
of cases of the disease. It is practically limited to bottle- 
fed children, those fed entirely at the breast nearly always 
escaping. There seems to be no doubt that the disease is 
caused by pollution of the food by dirt and dust. Flies 
probably play a very important part in the spread of the 



Children suffering from diarrhoea should be sent home 
from school, and the parents should be advised to seek 
medical attention for them. 



E7E DISEASES. 

The matters connected with defects of vision have 
already been discussed. It now remains to mention some 
common conditions in the region of the eye. 



COMMON AILMENTS AND CONDITIONS. 447 

1. " Red Eyes/ 1 

The commonest condition is the one in which the edges 
of the eyelids are inflamed and red. It usually indicates 
that the child is out of health and needs attention. Dirty 
and neglected children, particularly if of a tubercular 
tendency, are most liable. On the other hand it may be 
due to a defect of vision. 

In the worse type of case the glutinous secretion from 
the inflamed edge sticks together the eyelashes in clumps. 
Scabs are formed, and the eyelashes are often removed with 
them. 

The parents should be reminded that great care and 
cleanliness are necessary, and that the child requires 
medical attention. 



Styes are common amongst weakly, poorly fed, and 
neglected children, and they may occur as the result of 
defects of vision. They are caused by the obstruction of 
the ducts of small glands that open on the edge of the eye- 
lid. The obstruction causes the gland to become inflamed 
and the stye results. It appears as a round, reddened 
swelling on the edge of the lid, and gives rise to a 
great deal of pain and inconvenience. In cases where 
they appear in crops the vision should be carefully 
tested. 

3. Twitching. 

The usual cause of twitching of the eyelids is some error 
of vision or, less frequently, some local condition of the 
eyelids. 



448 COMMON AILMENTS AND CONDITIONS. 

4. Inflamed Eyeball. 

Children suffering from a redness of the " white of the 
eye " or conjunctiva, together with " watering " and fear of 
the light, should be rigidly excluded from school. Many 
such conditions are of an infectious character and would 
spread through the school, while those conditions which 
give rise to the above signs, but are not infectious, render 
it desirable that the child should not be troubled with 
school work. 

HEADACHES. 

All teachers are familiar with children who are continu- 
ally complaining of headache. In every case it should be 
regarded as a symptom caused by some disorder possibly 
a very serious one. 

(1) The commonest cause of all is probably eye strain. 
It has already been pointed out that children with defective 
vision often suffer from headache caused by the strain of 
the eyes. "When the defect is remedied and the trying 
conditions are removed the headache disappears as if by 
magic. 

(2) Another common cause of headache is an unhealthy 
condition of the throat and nose. Nasal catarrh and 
adenoids are particularly liable to cause headaches, and the 
child who frequently has a cold in the head is a continual 
sufferer in this way. 

(3) Unhealthy conditions of the alimentary tract prove 
a fertile cause of headaches in children. Bad teeth and 
indigestion, singly or together, and constipation are com- 
monly associated with headaches. 

(4) General conditions, such as anaemia, rheumatism, 
debility, and malnutrition, in many cases are found to exist 



COMMON AILMENTS AND CONDITIONS. 449 

in children who are continually complaining of headache 
when they have done some small amount of mental work. 

(5) Highly nervous children, and particularly children 
about the critical age of fourteen, frequently suffer from 
headaches. 

(6) A bad headache, especially in the case of a child not 
usually complaining, may indicate an approaching attack 
of some serious acute disorder, such as measles, scarlet 
fever, diphtheria, or pneumonia. 

(7) Although the above lengthy list provides ample 
possibilities for explaining a headache in a child, yet the 
first thing that should occur to a teacher when members 
of the class are complaining is the possibility of the cause 
being the badly ventilated and overheated condition of the 
room. It is important for a teacher to bear in mind the 
fact that the room may have become excessively foul so 
gradually that the senses have failed to notice any special 
pollution. With this exception it should be definitely 
understood that healthy children never suffer from head- 
ache, and that they are always an indication that something 
is wrong. 

HEART DISEASE. 

A child may be suspected to be suffering from heart 
disease in the following instances : 

(1) Puny under- developed children with expanded finger 
ends (clubbing), and pale or livid skin. 

(2) Dull children, with an obvious lack of energy and 
vitality associated with some lack of bodily development. 

(3) Children who are rapidly exhausted by physical 
exercise, and become breathless after any unusual exertion. 

(4) Attacks of faintness and fainting are often indica- 
tions of heart disease. 

PHY. HYG 29 



450 COMMON AILMENTS AND -CONDITIONS. 

(5) A bad circulation, evidenced by cold hands and feet, 
chilblains, etc., may indicate heart disease. 

It is usual to recognise three kinds of affections of the 
heart, viz. : 

I. Congenital Affections. 

Some children are born with the heart defective. If the 
defect is serious the child dies quickly, sometimes a few 
minutes after birth. The less serious cases may reach 
school age, but the children are always deficient in vitality, 
and the greatest possible laxity should be allowed. They* 
rarely reach adult life. 

II. Organic or Acquired Heart Disease. 

Many of these cases are caused by rheumatism, although 
any history of a typical attack of rheumatic fever is rare. 
More usually it is possible to find the rheumatic association 
by a history of " growing pains," vague pains in the joints 
and limbs, attacks of tonsilitis and sore throat, or attacks 
of chorea (St. Vitus' dance). Other cases are caused by 
previous attacks of scarlet fever, measles, diphtheria, or 
other infectious disorders. In all cases the valves of the 
heart are injured in such a way as to prevent the heart 
working properly. 

III. Functional Disorders. 

This is the term applied to those cases where the 
heart appears to be sound and properly developed, but 
where the beat of the heart is too rapid, or too slow, or 
irregular, or where the child suffers from palpitation. 
Common causes of such conditions are anaemia and dis- 
turbances of the alimentary tract. 

Children suffering from heart disease should receive 
extra indulgence wherever possible, Physical exercises 



COMMON AILMENTS AND CONDITIONS. 451 

should be very carefully graduated according to their 
capacity, and there should be no possibility of strain 
allowed. If the child is properly looked after at home and 
at school it is always possible that the heart may develop 
in such a way as to minimise the defect from which it 
suffers. This is called compensation. 

INDIGESTION. 

Faulty and improper digestion is common among school 
children. Among the better class children it is often due 
to excessive feeding or to rich and indigestible food. 
Among poor children the digestive system shares the 
general debility of the body, and the unhealthy condition 
is often intensified by improper food. Children should 
receive nothing but plain wholesome food, and any devia- 
tion from this rule usually inflicts its own penalty. Bad 
teeth will always upset digestion, not only by interfering 
with the proper mastication of the food, but also by the 
swallowing of poisonous matter from the decayed parts. 
Indigestion is the frequent cause of anaemia, headaches, 
constipation and diarrhoea, as well as many other common 
conditions of ill-health among children. 

SKIN DISEASES. 

The majority of skin diseases from which school children 
are likely to suffer are infectious, and the general rule of 
excluding such children from school should be adopted. 
In most cases the condition is the result of uncleanliness 
and overcrowding. 

1. The commonest condition is the presence of sores and 
crusts on the scalp, especially of girls. Upon closer ex- 
amination the presence of vermin is almost invariably 
detected. The worse forms, with great masses of crusts 



452 COMMON AILMENTS AND CONDITIONS. 

and enlarged glands or even abscesses at the back of the 
neck, are disgusting to look at, and to the inexperienced 
eye appear to be dreadful cases to deal with. The 
observer will be astonished to notice how wonderfully these 
cases clear up directly the vermin have been entirely 
eliminated by the processes already described. The in- 
fection is caused and the acute condition is continually 
maintained by the scratching of the scalp by the child. 
This goes on continually while vermin are present, and 
poisoning of the skin is inevitable. Beyond the elimina- 
tion of the vermin the only necessary treatment is the 
softening of the crusts by poulticing or bathing in hot 
water, and their removal. This condition should not be 
called eczema. 

2. Impetigo. 

This disease usually affects the skin at the angles of the 
mouth and on the chin. Small blisters appear in the 
middle of red patches. These afterwards become yellow, 
dry up, and form yellow crusts. It is extremely contagious 
and affected children must be excluded from school. It 
usually occurs among dirty and neglected children, and 
rapidly spreads from one member of the family to another 
If neglected it may spread through a whole school. 

3. Eczema. 

All skin diseases among children are popularly known 
as eczema. The real disease is quite common, especially 
in children about five years old, and the appearance varies 
from a simple scaliness to an angry-looking wet red patch 
that afterwards forms crusts. Although there is no 
reason to regard it as very contagious, yet it is advisable 
to exclude all affected children. 



COMMON AILMENTS AND CONDITIONS. 453 

4. Ringworm. 

This term includes a group of skin diseases produced by 
a kind of fungus. Occasionally schools are visited by an 
epidemic of ringworm, and teachers should be alive to the 
fact that a single case neglected may cause nearly all the 
other scholars to become infected. The disease is caused 
by a fungus, or vegetable parasite, which attacks the roots 
of the hairs, and the typical signs of the disease may be 
found on the scalp or scattered over the body. 

The beginning is usually a small red scaly spot which 
gradually spreads evenly so as to produce circular patches. 
The hairs in the affected area become brittle and break off, 
leaving the patches bare. By the coalescence of two or 
more of the circular patches the affected areas may become 
irregular in shape. If neglected the condition may persist 
for years, and may result in permanent loss of hair over 
the affected area, but spontaneous cure often takes place 
after a long time. 

In order to verify the diagnosis, and particularly in order 
to ascertain whether a cure has been effected, it is necessary 
for the medical officer to make a microscopical examination 
of hairs from the affected area. 

The affected children should be removed from school. 
It is extremely contagious and spreads easily by means 
of hats, gloves, towels, hair brushes. The slightest particle 
of scale from the infected area is sufficient to infect another 
child or another part of the same child. If any child 
showing the slightest sign of the disease is at once dis- 
missed and reported, there should be no difficulty in keep- 
ing the schools free from this infection. Unfortunately 
many teachers neglect to take this precaution, and as a 
result the disease is often spreading actively through 
schools. 



454 



COMMON AILMENTS AND CONDITIONS. 



5. Favus. 

This is the name given to a more serious affection 
of the scalp. It is due to another vegetable parasite which 
attacks the roots of the hairs. The cure is extremely 
difficult. 

Pale yellow cup-shaped patches form on the scalp, and 
afterwards fuse with each other to form greyish crusts. 
The hairs become brittle, and bald patches are formed as 
in ringworm. A characteristic and unmistakable mouse- 
like smell is emitted from the crusts. In every case 
immediate and total exclusion from school is urgently 
necessary. 



6. Itch or Scabies. 

The itch insect usually attacks the skin between the 
fingers, where the skin is thin. 
It is very minute, and the female 
burrows into the skin, unnoticed 
at first, but afterwards causing 
itching and redness. Under the 
skin she lays her eggs, which 
hatch in about fourteen days. 
The young ones then burrow 
afresh on their own account, and 
so the disease spreads. The in- 
tense itching causes vigorous 
scratching, and this results in 
considerable inflammation of the 
skin, with the formation of fairly 
typical crusts. 

The itch is very contagious, the slightest contact being 
sufficient to cause infection. It is also conveyed by infected 
garments and bedclothes, all of which require disinfection 




Fig. 151. 

THK ITCH INSECT. 



COMMON AILMENTS AND CONDITIONS. 455 

before the disease can be stamped out. Infected children 
should be rigidly excluded from school. 



THROAT CONDITIONS. 

1. Adenoids. 

Adenoids are soft growths attached to the mucous mem- 
brane of the nasopharynx or the cavity at the back of the 
nose. They are unfortunately very common among all 
classes of children. Heredity plays some part as a predis- 
posing cause, but the actual cause is unknown. Enlarged 
tonsils are often associated with this condition. They may 
commence to grow after an attack of measles or whooping 
cough, and a probable predisposing cause is mouth breath- 
ing, which is acquired by many children merely as a bad 
habit. At the age of fourteen they tend to disappear 
spontaneously, but in many cases they have been the cause 
of irreparable mischief by that time. Their effects are 
numerous and are best discussed separately. 

(a) Depression and discomfort. A child suffering from 
adenoids is continually feeling depressed and uncomfortable. 

(6) Mouth breathing. Owing to the obstruction of the 
nasopharynx the child finds it difficult or impossible to 
brea,the through the nose. The mouth is therefore always 
open, and this gives a dull and stupid appearance to the 
face, which gradually acquires a mask-like look that is 
incapable of expressing either joy or sorrow. 

(c) Dulness and stupidity. Not only does the face look 
stupid and dull, but the mental condition quickly follows 
suit, and the child becomes backward and incapable of 
doing much mental work. Examples are common where 
such children have been regarded as mentally defective, 
but it is important to remember that their mental appa- 
ratus is quite normal in every respect except that the brain 



456 COMMON AILMENTS AND CONDITIONS. 

is clouded, as it were, by their complaint. The writer well 
remembers two extreme cases that were presented to him 
by their teachers as badly defective mentally. These 
children had each been at school about two years, and had 
not yet succeeded in learning the alphabet. Fortunately 
it was possible to get these cases properly treated, and on 
their return to school they rapidly became normal children 
and made good progress. It is very probable that large 
numbers of adenoid children are at the present time 
being " educated " at special centres for mentally defective 
children. Of course this is the result of inadequate 
medical supervision, and not only wastes public money, 
but also fails to educate at all a child who is capable of 
being educated in the ordinary way. 

(d) Fatigue. Directly any mental work is attempted 
the child gets a headache and suffers from mental fatigue. 
This is due to the difficulty that there is in getting away 
the waste products from the brain. Such children are 
constantly complaining of headache. 

(e) Dead Speech. Owing to the absence of resonance 
the speech acquires a characteristic dead quality, and there 
is difficulty with the letters m and n, b and d being sub- 
stituted. Thus the child says " by " instead of " my," and 
"do" instead of "no." 

(/) Deafness. In many cases the opening of the 
eustachian tube into the pharynx becomes blocked and 
deafness results. 

(<7) Chest deformities. The obstruction that prevents 
free and easy respiration causes extra strong action of the 
diaphragm in the effort to fill the chest. In young children 
this may result in serious deformity. The sternum is 
pushed out and often bent, while the lower and lateral 
parts of the chest are retracted, producing the condition 
known as "pigeon chest." If adenoids are present in a 



COMMON AILMENTS AND CONDITIONS. 457 

rickety child, a common combination, these effects are 
very pronounced. A long narrow chest is produced and 
the child is predisposed to consumption. 

If the obstruction begins at about the age of ten the 
forced respiratory efforts produce a barrel- shaped condition 
of the chest. 

(&) " Veiled look." The eyes of adenoid children often 
have a characteristic appearance that has been called the 
" veiled look." This is caused by the lower lid covering 
more of the eye than it normally does. The explanation 
is that connecting the muscle of the lower lid with the 
ring of muscle surrounding the mouth there are small 
muscular bands which, when the mouth is kept closed, hold 
the lower eyelid down. If the mouth is perpetually open 
this tension is relaxed, and the lower lid creeps a little 
way up the eyeball. 

The lot of the adenoid child is not a happy one. He is 
looked upon as stupid and dull ; is often punished for not 
doing mental work that he is quite incapable of perform- 
ing ; and is disliked, ridiculed, and avoided by the other 
children. If he survives till the age of .fourteen he loses 
the adenoids, but they have so crippled his development 
that he usually falls an early and easy prey to con- 
sumption a few years later. 

Treatment. Directly the condition is recognised the 
parents should be urged to seek medical aid. By the 
removal of these growths many of the children rapidly 
become normal in every way, and the author can recall 
several instances of adenoid children, previously regarded 
as being mentally defective, rapidly becoming bright and 
alert and active after the removal of the growths. The 
earlier that they are removed the better will be the result, 
because their presence hampers and hinders the proper 
development of the child. It is only by systematic physical 



458 COMMON AILMENTS AND CONDITIONS. 

examination of the scholars that the detection of early 
cases can be hoped for. 

Probably much can be done to prevent the growth of 
adenoids by proper breathing exercises several times a day 
with the mouth closed. Children should be most definitely 
instructed to keep the mouth closed. By these means the 
membrane of the nose and pharynx is kept in a healthy 
condition. 

It is very probable that mouth breathing, as a bad habit, 
is an important cause of adenoids by making the mucous 
membrane of those regions unhealthy. Systematic breath- 
ing exercises with the mouth closed, several times a day, in 
the open air or with widely open windows, would serve 
to keep the membrane healthy and check the tendency 
towards adenoids. Probably large numbers of adenoid 
children die of consumption during early adult life, and so 
by preventing the growth of adenoids, and by their prompt 
removal when they do occur, the great number of deaths 
from consumption may possibly be decreased. Teachers 
should remember that if they can persuade the parents of 
such children to obtain treatment for them they will 
not only be doing a public service, but will also help 
in wholly changing the lives of these miserable little 
unfortunates. 

2. Enlarged Tonsils. 

Enlarged tonsils are often associated with adenoids, and 
in some cases are the direct result of mouth breathing. 
The condition can be easily recognised by inspection of the 
throat. In some schools an astonishingly large percentage 
of the children (as many as 30 or 40 per cent.) show en- 
largement of the tonsils, and it is often an indication that 
the housing conditions of the locality are inferior. If the 



COMMON AILMENTS AND CONDITIONS. 459 

enlargement is considerable similar results to those pro- 
duced by adenoids may be brought about. Mouth breath- 
ing and deafness are particularly common accompaniments. 
Also such children are particularly liable to throat affec- 
tions, diphtheria, ulcerated throat, quinsy, etc., and also 
rheumatic fever. Teachers should suggest to the parents 
that such children require medical attention. 

3. Sore Throats. 

A child suffering from sore throat should always be at 
once placed in a desk to itself, because the condition is 
probably infectious. It is most important to remember 
that such cases may be suffering from diphtheria, and may 
set up a severe epidemic in the school. The fact that the 
child is liable to sore throat is not any reason why the 
above rule should not be observed. During epidemics of 
diphtheria and scarlet fever all children suffering from sore 
throat should be sent home and should be reported to the 
medical officers. Teachers should also realise the im- 
portance of the fact that children who do not suffer from 
any soreness of the throat may have the germs of diphtheria 
or an infectious disease in the throat, and may be spreading 
the disease among the scholars. A valuable indication of 
any mischief in the region of the throat is the presence of 
hard glands in the region of the angle of the jaw. During 
times of epidemic teachers are strongly recommended to 
make this examination, and to submit all children possessing 
such hard glands to the medical officer at once. During a 
throat epidemic at Handsworth, the writer found the help 
of the teachers in this direction most valuable, and a large 
number of infected children were discovered in this way. 
By excluding these children the epidemic was effectually 
and speedily stamped out. 



CHAPTER VI. 



EPIDEMIC DISEASES. 

THE epidemic diseases affecting schools include diphtheria, 
scarlet fever, measles, German measles, whooping cough, 
mumps, chicken pox, and small-pox, all of which have 
certain characteristics in common, viz. 

(1) They are all communicable from one person to 
another. 

(2) Each disease has a definite duration. 

(3) When infection has taken place no symptoms are 

produced at first. The interval of time, between 
the actual infection and the appearance of the first 
sign or symptom of the disease is called the period 
of incubation. When the incubation period has 
elapsed the typical symptoms of the disease appear, 
and last for a certain time, during which death may 
occur. If the active period of the disease is survived 
recovery usually takes place. 

(4) A remarkable characteristic is that an attack of one 

of these diseases is rarely followed by a subsequent 
attack of the same disease in the same individual. 
In other words, an attack confers immunity from 
that disease. The chief exception to the above rule 
is diphtheria. 

460 



EPIDEMIC DISEASES. 461 

(5) In many cases the disease has been conclusively 
shown to be caused by some special form of bacterial 
life, and the same explanation is inferred in the 
case of the others on account of their common 
characteristics. From the obvious analogy that 
exists between the ordinary process of fermentation 
(i.e. a stage of quiescence or incubation followed by 
a period of activity and then by exhaustion of the 
process) and the course of these diseases the term 
zymotic has been applied to them. 

SPREAD OF INFECTION. 

1. By Air. The germs of whooping cough, scarlet 
fever, measles, small-pox, chicken pox, mumps, diphtheria, 
influenza, and tubercle seem to be capable of being carried 
by the air. In most of them, however, the possible distance 
is only a small one, and it is likely that only in the case of 
tubercle, small-pox, and influenza can the infection be 
carried any considerable distance. 

2. By Water and Food. Typhoid fever and cholera 
are notoriously water-borne diseases. Infected milk may 
spread tubercle, scarlet fever, diphtheria, or measles. 

3. By Clothes. Scarlet fever and small-pox germs have 
a special proclivity of lying dormant for long periods in 
clothes and furniture of the sick room. Infected books 
and toys similarly help in the spread. 

4. By Living Creatures. Flies are probably active 
carriers of diphtheria and typhoid fever, and in towns 
probably play a conspicuous part in the spread of these 
diseases. Fleas may similarly carry infection. Cats 
undoubtedly suffer from and spread diphtheria. 



462 EPIDEMIC DISEASES. 

PREVENTION OF INFECTION. 

The spread of infectious diseases is prevented by care- 
fully and thoroughly carrying out instructions and by the 
adoption of different precautions such as are grouped 
together as follows : 

1. Isolation. The sick should be at once separated from 
the healthy. 

2. Quarantine. Those who have been exposed to infec- 
tion should be isolated separately and kept under observa- 
tion until the period of incubation of the disease in 
question has expired. 

3. Disinfection. The disease germs that may be present 
in the room, on walls, floors, desks, etc., or on pencils, 
books, or clothes, must be destroyed. 

4. Immunity. In the case of small-pox the disease can 
be checked in its spread and could eventually be stamped 
out by efficient vaccination, which confers immunity from 
the disease. 

5. Notification. When a case of infectious disease 
occurs it must be notified at once to the local medical 
officer of health. 

6. Exclusion. All children from an infected house must 
be excluded from school until the medical officer certifies 
that they can resume attendance. 

SPECIAL WORK 

1. By Attendance Officers. 

In the ordinary course of their work the attendance 
officers receive from parents various excuses as to their 



EPIDEMIC DISEASES. 



463 



children's absence from school. If any suspicious or in- 
fectious or contagious disease or condition is given as the 
reason to the attendance officer, he at once forwards such 
cases to the medical officer on the following form : 

NOTIFICATION OF INFECTIOUS DISEASES. 
School. Department. 



To the Medical Officer of Health. 

SIR, 

At the foot hereof I forward you a list of cases of Infectious 
and Contagious Diseases which have been reported to me. 
Yours faithfully, 



Attendance Officer. 



NAME. 


EESIDENCE. 


DOCTOR 
ATTENDING. 


DISEASE. 











These notifications by attendance officers are most valuable, 
and intelligent officers are of the greatest possible help. 
Cases of measles, chicken-pox, mumps, sore throat, ring- 
worm, skin diseases, verminous heads (usually reported as 
" eczema of scalp "), and many other conditions, are 
brought at once to the notice of the medical officer of 
health. The medical officer examines these reports, and 
either arranges for the inspection of the children at home 
or sends a notice asking for the child to be brought to see 
him. Cases visited are recorded on special cards, of which 
the following is a type : 













e 

2 

"^ CU 
























1 



















& 

<5 






1 














J 


n 




g 


.1 














c 





J 




c 

p 


i 














q 








s 

_p 
























"o 




. 




















M 




y 




















S 




^ 


















f-r 




















c/5 


T3 

s 


1 






d 














0. 

S 


|S 

<D 








1| 














D 


| 








^ 5 












'C 


5 




W 








H 












"o 
























o 
,0 












CQ 























1 


w 1 






















Is 

























1 


B, 


















- 




g 


QD 


















Wl 




CO 


















| 


^C 




1 
















1 


> 


t- i 



sd 


o 
















1 


| 


42 
g 
5 


;| 


















<} 


d 


s 


P 




o 












T3 


^ 

4) 


o 

1 

3 


8 
S 

a 


8 

1 




1 












c 

1 





? 


1 





















^ 


5^ 


o 



















c- 



464 



EPIDEMIC DISEASES. 465 

If a doctor is in attendance, the time of return of the child 
is left for him to decide as a general rule. 

Similar cards are used for measles, whooping-cough, 
chicken-pox, while those cases for which there are no 
special cards are recorded upon a general card as below : 

NOTIFIED CASES. 

Name. Age. 

School Notified by on 



On the other hand, some children may be considered to 
be fit to come and see the medical officer, and to these cases 
a notice is sent requesting the parent to bring or send the 
child. 

As the result of the information thus gained, it is 
possible in many cases to decide definitely when the child* 
will probably be fit to return to school. Accordingly, the 
following notice is sent to the parents : 

URBAN DISTRICT OF HANDSWORTH. 
HEALTH DEPARTMENT. 



Owing to the existence of in your house it will 

be necessary to keep the following children from school until the 
dates against their names : 



The following children may continue to attend school 
as usual : 



Medical Officer of Health. 
PHY. II YG. 30 



466 



EPIDEMIC DISEASES. 



Similar information is sent to the Education Office on the 
following form : 



URBAN DISTRICT OF HANDSWORTH. 
HEALTH DEPARTMENT. 

School. 



Owing to the existence of infectious disease in their homes the 
undermentioned children have been excluded from school until the 
dates shown against their respective names : 



NAME. 



ADDRESS. 



EXCLUDED UNTIL. 



The undermentioned children may continue to attend 
school as usual : 



NAME. 



ADDRESS. 



Medical Officer of Health. 



EPIDEMIC DISEASES. 



467 



Also, the head teachers are similarly notified as to 
children who are excluded, or those who are allowed to 
return to school. 

Of course many cases are discovered that need medical 
attention, but are not receiving it. These and similar 
cases are dealt with under " Amelioration." 

It is astonishing to observe the effect of work such as is 
described above. The parents quickly appreciate the fact 
that increased attention is being given officially to infec- 
tious and contagious diseases and conditions, and increased 
vigilance and carefulness on their part is soon noticeable. 



2. By the Teachers. 

Unfortunately it is quite common for children to arrive 
at school in such a condition as to justify the teacher 
sending them home because they obviously may be a source 
of danger to the other children. Stamped post-cards, 
addressed to the medical officer of health, are supplied to 
the head teachers. These contain the following notice : 



Schools. 



.Department. 



The undermentioned children have been sent home to-day 
for the reasons indicated against their respective names : 



NAME. 


ADDRESS. 


REASON FOR 
EXCLUSION. 














. 







Date 



Head Teacher. 



468 EPIDEMIC DISEASES. 

The reasons given include sore throats, swollen glands, 
skin eruptions, verminous conditions, rashes, discharging 
ears, etc. 

These cases are treated in precisely the same fashion as 
those notified by the attendance officers. 

On the other hand, there are a number of children whom 
the head teacher does not feel altogether justified in 
sending home, but who are apparently abnormal in some 
way. For notifying these cases similar post-cards are 
supplied, stating that " the following cases appear to require 
medical examination without delay." These cases are seen 
at the school as quickly as possible. A keen and observant 
teacher can be of far greater real use in detecting sus- 
picious cases than a school nurse, because such a teacher is 
seeing the children every day, and knows their normal 
appearance. In both the above ways a large number of 
children are discovered who are in urgent need of medical 
attention. 

3. By School Nurses or Health Visitors. 

The school nurse should also be a health visitor. They 
are useful in visiting notified cases at home, and reporting 
to the medical officer. At the home they are able to follow 
up the printed recommendation that medical attention is 
necessary by personally urging the parents to call in a 
doctor. Their help in personally assisting the parents to 
treat properly ringworm and verminous conditions is also 
valuable. 



4. By the Medical Officer. 

From the above outline it is obvious that the medical 
officer will be kept constantly in touch with the happenings 
in the district, and will have brought to his notice a very 



EPIDEMIC DISEASES. 469 

large proportion of the infectious and contagious diseases 
and conditions that are among the children. Attendance 
officers, teachers, and school nurses will be constantly- 
presenting special cases for examination. 



SMALL-POX. 

Owing to the effect of vaccination this disease is un- 
common in schools. During epidemics, however, outbreaks 
may occur, and when this happens it usually serves as a 
most striking object-lesson upon the effects of vaccination. 
The circumstances of the outbreak of small-pox among 
school children at Ossett, near Wakefield, illustrate this. 
The following figures are taken from the report of 
Dr. Kaye, the County Medical Officer for the West Riding 
of Yorkshire. In the mixed department of this school 
were 169 scholars. On October 27, 1904, h, child in one of 
the classes was found to be suffering from small-pox and 
was promptly removed to the hospital. In this class there 
were 27 scholars, 19 of whom had been vaccinated and 8 
were unvaccinated. Every one of these 8 unvaccinated 
children took the disease, while the 19 vaccinated children 
all escaped. Similarly in two other classes every un- 
vaccinated child contracted small-pox. Altogether there 
were 42 cases of small-pox among the scholars and only 
five of these had been vaccinated, and these five were in 
one class of older scholars in whom the effects of vaccination 
during infancy were wearing off. Throughout the whole 
school not a single re- vaccinated person took the disease. 

There is abundant scientific and statistical evidence to 
prove that efficient vaccination, as shown by the production 
of four good scars, during infancy confers absolute immunity 
for at least ten years. Also if revacciiiatiou is properly 



470 EPIDEMIC DISEASES. 

performed at the age of twelve to fourteen years it will 
undoubtedly confer immunity for the remainder of life. 
In countries where revaccination is compulsory the disease 
is practically unknown. 

The incubation period of small-pox is twelve days, during 
which period there are practically no symptoms. Then 
pain in the back, headache, vomiting, fever, and shivering 
show the commencement of the attack. In mild cases, 
such as occur in inefficiently vaccinated children, the 
eruption is the first sign. This begins on the third day of 
the illness. It is first noticed on the forehead, neck, face, 
and wrists. Afterwards it spreads over the trunk and 
limbs. 

The rash appears first as red spots, slightly raised, and 
afterwards becoming more prominent. They are hard and 
" shotty." On the third day of their appearance the centre 
of each becomes clear and transparent, and they now look 
like blisters full of clear fluid. In two more days the 
middle becomes depressed and the clear appearance changes 
to dull yellow. After the eighth day the spots begin to 
dry and form scabs. A case should be regarded as infec- 
tious until all the scabs have quite disappeared. 

During an epidemic of small-pox a teacher should send 
home any child with suspicious spots on the face or wrists, 
and report the case to the medical officer. No child from 
an infected house can be allowed to attend school. 



CHICKEN POX. 

This is very common among children, and spreads rapidly 
through schools in epidemics. It has a variable incubation 
period of from twelve to nineteen days, during which time 
there are no symptoms. The rash appears first as red spots 



EPIDEMIC DISEASES. 471 

on the chest, afterwards on the face and scalp, and then on 
the limbs. Fresh crops of the spots appear at intervals, 
and as each goes through the same development it follows 
that all stages of the process are noticeable on the same 
individual at the same time. In a few hours the red spots 
change into blisters, then they turn yellow, and in two or 
three days they burst, dry up, and form scabs. A child is 
free from infection when all traces of the scabs have dis- 
appeared. All children from infected houses must be 
excluded from school. 

Any child showing a suspicious eruption should be sent 
home and reported to the medical officer. 



SCARLET FEVER OR SCARLATINA. 

The incubation period of scarlet fever is variable, being 
usually three or four days, and the disease is highly infec- 
tious from its commencement. In the earlier stages infection 
is spread mainly by the breath and the secretions of the nose, 
mouth, and throat, and later on a possible cause may be 
the scales of desquamated skin, that are particularly liable 
to adhere to clothing and to lie latent for an indefinite 
period. After the disease is apparently over a child may 
be sent to school with discharging ears or nose, or in very 
mild cases the disease may have been undetected and the 
child continue its attendance at school until this discharge 
commences. Such discharges are intensely infectious and 
will rapidly spread the disease. No child with discharging 
ears or nose should be allowed in school during a scarlet 
fever epidemic until the medical officer has made an 
examination. 

A common event is the discharge of a child from the 
hospital apparently well, and with no discharge of ears or 



472 EPIDEMIC DISEASES. 

nose. Such a child is then sent to school, and is sent out 
to play in the playground with the others during recess. 
Although the weather may be very cold the child usually 
goes out of the warm schoolroom into the cold air without 
any additional clothing, and with no hat. A cold is con- 
tracted, and a discharge from the nose or ears is set up. 
This proves to be infectious and an epidemic is caused. 
With greater care exercised to prevent such children from 
taking cold there is reason to believe that they would not 
prove to be infectious to others, but if they contract a cold 
the infectivity appears to burst out afresh. 

The usual premonitory signs of an approaching attack 
of scarlet fever are pallor, shivering, vomiting, headache, 
and sore throat. If scarlet fever is at all prevalent in the 
district any child showing two of the above signs should 
be sent home and reported. 

The attack itself nearly always begins with shivering 
and vomiting, with more or less severe sore throat. The 
face then becomes flushed, and the rash appears on the 
side of the neck and on the chest. Afterwards the rash 
spreads to the abdomen and the limbs, but, curiously 
enough, does not appear on the face, the palms of the 
hands, or the soles of the feet. The rash appears as small 
deep red dots on a red skin. It disappears about the 
seventh day. 

The sore throat is often a prominent symptom, and the 
glands about the jaw are swollen and painful, causing 
difficulty in mastication and swallowing. The tongue 
becomes brightly red, with swollen papillae, giving it the 
appearance of a strawberry. 

Desquamation or peeling begins in severe cases on the 
third or fourth day ; in milder cases from the sixth to the 
ninth day ; occasionally it is postponed until much later. 
The peeling usually commences where the rash first 



EPIDEMIC DISEASES. 473 

appeared, i.e. on the sides of the neck and the chest. Then 
the trunk and the arms begin a few days after, then the 
palms of the hands, a^d finally the soles and the heels. From 
a school point of view a constant routine examination of the 
children's hands and fingers during an epidemic is most 
useful. Quite recently in the author's district an epidemic 
of scarlet fever was associated with a large public ele- 
mentary school, and systematic examination of all the 
children in attendance was carried out. Three children 
were discovered in the peeling stage, and several others 
were sent home as suspicious cases. These afterwards 
developed the disease. By these means, combined with 
thorough disinfection of the rooms, etc., and the visitation 
of all suspicious cases of absence, the epidemic was sud- 
denly and completely arrested. An examination of the 
registers showed that the children who were found to be 
peeling had stayed away from school, for one day only, 
about two weeks previously. This serves to illustrate the 
fact that mild cases escape ordinary observation and do not 
appear to be ill, but they continue the spread of the 
disease. In fact it is always more difficult to stamp out 
epidemics of a very mild character simply because some of 
the cases are not ill enough to be kept at home. 

An ordinary case of scarlet fever is free from infection 
in about six weeks, but no child should be allowed to 
resume attendance while it shows any discharge of ears or 
nose. Of course all children from infected houses must be 
excluded from school. 

MEASLES. 

This disease causes a very high death rate among chil- 
dren, but it is not necessarily so fatal as it appears, most 
of the deaths being due to bronchitis or pneumonia, which 
so often complicate or follow an attack of measles and are 



474 EPIDEMIC DISEASES. 

frequently caused by neglect and exposure to cold. The 
incubation period is usually about twelve days. 

The increase in the prevalence of measles during recent 
years is attributable to the crowding together of children 
in schools, the relative increase in town populations, and 
the impossibility of definitely recognising the disease 
before it becomes infective. 

During an epidemic of measles the following precautions 
should be taken : 

1. Susceptible children from infected houses should be 

excluded from school altogether until the most 
recent case is certified as being free from infection. 

2. Scholars who appear to be suffering from the slightest 

cold should be sent home. 

3. All absentees should be visited by the attendance 

officers, and all suspicious cases visited by the 
medical officer. This is a most necessary and 
important step in order to properly enforce 
rule (1). 

4. In severe epidemics it may be desirable to close 

infants' schools if the adoption of the above measures 
does not stop the spread. It is unnecessary to close 
the other departments. 

5. During the closure the infants' school should be 

thoroughly disinfected. It is often advisable to 
disinfect the other departments on Saturdays, when 
they are not in use. 

If an outbreak of measles occur in a boarding school the 
cases should be at once isolated, and all scholars who have 
been in the same dormitory during the previous week or 
sat next to them in class-rooms during that time should be 
placed in quarantine. All scholars who show any signs 
whatever of an ordinary cold should be separately 
isolated. 



EPIDEMIC DISEASES. 475 

For four or five days before the typical rash appears 
the child begins to show evidence of being out of sorts. 
The commencement is usually shivering, hot dry skin, 
and headache. Then signs of a cold appear. The child 
sneezes, the eyes get red and watery, the nose runs, and the 
voice gets hoarse. A child showing any of these signs 
during an epidemic of measles should be at once sent 
home. In an infants' school it is advisable to send such 
a child home at once whether measles is prevalent or 
not. If teachers could only be persuaded to adopt this 
course, it is probable that most epidemics of measles 
would be avoided. 

After about four days of these symptoms the typical 
rash appears, and it is only at this stage that the 
diagnosis of measles can be definitely made. But by 
this time the child, if it has continued to attend school, 
will have infected dozens of other children. The rash 
appears first on the face, which becomes flushed at first 
and then develops the characteristic appearance of raised, 
blotchy, dark red patches. This afterwards spreads to 
the rest of the body. 

A child is infectious from the time of the first 
symptom until the end of the illness, usually a period of 
about four weeks. 

GERMAN MEASLES. 

This is a mild infectious disorder which has symptoms 
bearing some resemblance to both measles and scarlet 
fever. It is quite a distinct disease, having an incubation 
period of about sixteen days. 

The preliminary symptoms are usually very mild. There 
may be headache, vomiting, and signs of a cold. The 
eruption appears first on the face, as in measles, and con- 
sists of slightly raised patches of a rose-red color. It then 



476 EPIDEMIC DISEASES. 

spreads to the body, where the rash is often like that of 
scarlet fever, but is more patch y. The glands at the back 
of the neck, in the armpit, and in the groin are enlarged, 
tender, and hard like peas. The disease itself is very mild, 
but it may be the forerunner of tuberculous infection of 
the glands. 

WHOOPING COUGH. 

People at any age may be attacked by this disease, 
though it is commoner and more fatal among infants than 
among older children and adults. Its incubation period is 
about eight days. It is highly infectious before the cough 
appears, and the infectiousness may continue for months. 
Although regarded by the average parent as a trivial 
complaint, yet it is actually the most fatal of all the 
infectious complaints of children under five years old. It 
causes twice as many deaths as scarlet fever. 

The preliminary symptoms are those of a cold, viz. 
sneezing, running nos'e, watering eyes, and slight cough. 
These may persist for one or two weeks, during which time 
the infection is being spread broadcast if the child attends 
school. This is yet another reason why all children 
showing signs of a cold should in every instance and under 
all circumstances be excluded from school. By making 
this a routine practice it is impossible to exaggerate the 
important effects that would be achieved. Epidemics 
would be prevented in many instances, and a great number 
of fatalities avoided. The rule should be most rigidly 
observed in infants' schools. 

The actual attack of typical whooping cough is unmis- 
takable and painfully noticeable. A child who has had 
several attacks of the typical fits of coughing knows when 
one is coming on, and often appears frightened and begins 
to cry. A rapid series of short coughs are given until the 



EPIDEMIC DISEASES 477 

chest is emptied of air, during which time the face 
becomes congested and livid. Then the breath is drawn 
in with a long crowing whoop. The fit of coughing may 
be followed by vomiting. Afterwards the child becomes 
bright and cheerful again. Infected children should be 
excluded for at least two months, or for a longer period if 
the paroxysms of cough, followed by vomiting, have not 
disappeared. 

A distressing characteristic of whooping cough is the 
tendency that it seems to confer upon the lungs to acquire 
disease. It appears to weaken the resisting power of the 
lung tissue, and to predispose to attacks of pneumonia and 
to consumption. 

MUMPS. 

Epidemics of this disease are frequent in cold wet 
weather in spring and autumn. The incubation period is 
over a fortnight. Both children and young adults may be 
attacked and boys are more liable to be infected than girls. 
The outbreak is often associated with an epidemic of 



The first signs are pain, stiffness, and tenderness at the 
angle of the jaw, below the ear. This is followed by swell- 
ing. One side is affected first, usually the left, and the 
other side may or may not follow suit. The pain, stiffness, 
and tenderness may spread down the side of the neck and 
there may be great difficulty in opening the mouth. When 
both sides are affected with considerable swelling the 
appearance is very grotesque. 

The condition is intensely infectious and it" must be 
remembered that serious complications and sequelae are not 
uncommon. Cases should not be regarded as free from 
infection until the end of four weeks from the commence- 
ment of the disease. 



478 EPIDEMIC DISEASES. 

Swellings at the angle of the jaw, closely resembling 
those caused by mumps, are occasionally seen in bad cases 
of scarlet fever and diphtheria. 



DIPHTHERIA. 

During the last twenty or thirty years there has been a pro- 
gressive increase in the rate of mortality from diphtheria in 
England and Wales, and the increase is mainly in densely 
populated districts. The disease used to be regarded as 
one peculiar to country districts, but its character has now 
changed and it-is practically always present in large towns. 
This is probably due to the fact that the diphtheria bacillus 
is extremely common in towns, and is present in many 
healthy throats without causing any disease. When, how- 
ever, the bacilli gain access to an unhealthy throat they 
are able to set up the disease known as diphtheria. 

After the attack is" over and the throat is apparently 
healthy the bacilli may still persist in the throat and the 
child may be still able to give others the disease. Also 
healthy children may have the bacilli in the throat and 
may hand them on to other children without themselves 
suffering from the disease. Such cases are known as 
" carriers " and play an important part in the spread of 
the disease. 

A consideration of the above facts shows plainly that in 
order to prevent the occurrence and spread of diphtheria 
we must devote ourselves to two objects, the exclusion of 
all children who have in their throats the bacilli of diph- 
theria and the removal of all conditions that are liable 
to produce a morbid condition of the throat, such as bad 
ventilation, over-heating, access of sewer gas or ground air 
into schools, bad drainage, and insanitary conveniences. 
It is most important to remember that the bacillus probably 



EPIDEMIC DISEASES. 



479 



has no effect upon a healthy throat and that some predis- 
posing cause must be at work before the disease diphtheria 
can be set up. In every school epidemic of diphtheria 
investigated by the author it has been possible to find some 
undesirable condition such as those enumerated above, and 
when these have been eliminated and those children possess- 
ing diphtheria bacilli in the throat have been excluded the 
disease has always disappeared. There is never any reason 
for school closure for diphtheria unless some structural 
alterations are urgently necessary. 

By means of a bacteriological examination of the material 
from the throats of the children it is possible to know 
exactly which of the children are capable of giving the 
disease to others, and these children can be excluded until 
they are found to be quite free from the bacilli. If the 
school is closed for alterations or for holiday while cases 
of diphtheria are associated with it a good plan is for the 
medical officer to make this examination the first time that 
the scholars re-assemble. 

If bacteriological examination cannot be obtained the 
best plan is to send home all children suffering from sore 
throat, but this plan cannot be relied upon to stamp out 
the disease, because many children who are acting as 
carriers may have no throat trouble at all. 

The incubation period of diphtheria averages between 
two and five days. The greatest number of cases and the 
maximum mortality occur between the ages of three and 
twelve years. The first symptom is a sore throat. The 
glands round the jaw and throat often become inflamed, 
enlarged, and tender. Upon examination of the throat one 
or more patches of a greyish white membrane may be seen 
over the tonsils, the palate, or the back of the pharynx. 

The disease may attack the trachea (causing " croup ") 
or the membrane lining the nose, and it is by no means 



480 EPIDEMIC DISEASES. 

uncommon to trace mysterious recurrences of the disease 
in a school to an unrecognised and long standing case of 
nasal diphtheria. Wherever the germs may have taken 
hold they may persist there for long periods, and in many 
cases they can be still found after the lapse of twelve months. 
Usually, however, before the expiration of so long a time 
they have lost their virulence and are no longer able to 
set up the disease diphtheria. 

The infection spreads rapidly through a school by the 
breath of those suffering from the disease (as well as the 
" carriers ") and by infected pens, pencils, books, papers, 
modelling clay, towels, drinking cups, etc. 

The use of diphtheria antitoxin in rendering the children 
temporarily immune to the disease has not been adopted in 
this country to any considerable extent, but it is a method 
full of promise for the future. 

All cases of diphtheria and all children from infected 
houses should be excluded from school until a bacterio- 
logical examination proves them to be free from the diph- 
theria bacillus. 

The following table gives a summary of some of the 
facts concerning the above diseases : 





f^ 


d 


il 




IL 












11 


t 


1 


t 


sfil 


-1 


t 


I 


f 




<y 


M 


CO 


00 


g- C8 =3 


00 


s 


CO 


rS 






O OB * " 


g s 




' cS 


o 




c 


C 




a 
o 

1| 


!!i:i 

Nsi! 


&5J 

J^o 

1^1 




Big 

J3 S. 

If!,- 


I H 
> 


: 


B 

ii . 
|1 




3| 

1.1 




P 


lilli 

S c J! 

S TJ" g *2 5 
^2gg S 

^H M *- 03 


11 cough anc 
ave cease<3 
kin is smoo 
han four w 


ti-ee weeks. 


i 1* )*H 

Ifii 
Illl 


1 


ur weeks. 


a O 

13 
il 


s S 
11 

2| 






pa^gj 


H "^ 


H 


g.-Q M 


g.s a 





H 


s 






1 S 


K +> . ri 
S S3 


it 




II 


III 


a 


p 


CO 


s 

v'S 

If 


Discharges f 
throat, n 
and ear. 
Peeling of si 


Discharges f i 
lungs, thn 
nose and ei 
Peeling of s! 


Breath ( 
throat 
charges). 


Discharges f 
throat, n 
and ear. 


Breath (i.e. 

charges fi 
lung). 


Breath (i.e. 
charges f i 
parotid gla 


Breath a 
scabs. 


Breath a 
scabs. 


1 


^1 = 


TS 

a 


.g 

S 


CO 


1 


1 


j 










fe*"^ S A * 


o 


b 
O 


3 






t- 


T 


B 


CO 


Qt 1 * 




s 


J3 



% 


1 





| 




D 


o ^ 




* 














o 


cf 0*0 


















1 


IjffJI 


j- 


2 


1 


1 


I 


I 


| 


2 


g 

h- 1 


I-B&IS e- 














" 




CM 




TJ p a, 


^3 


"8 


*oS' 


* ^a; 


d-o 


"8g1^ 


of 8 g 







-i| p. 


^ 


t$ 


a|^ 


til 





JJ 


II J 


TABLE 


SIGNS OR SYMPTOMS. 


Headache, shivering, vomiting, sore throa 
hot dry skin ; 2nd day, bright red rash ; 
peeling follows, and later on discharges 
occur from the nose and ears. Face verj 
in later stages. 


Begins like a cold in the head ; with fev< 
ness, shivering, running from the nose 
eyes, and sneezing ; blotchy rash abou 
day on the face, which looks swollen and h 


Like both Measles and Scarlet Fever, but 
rally mild. Sneezing, blotchy rash, enli 
glands. 


Sore throat, with lassitude and weakness 
rule ; white points or patches on the bac] 
sides of the throat ; stiffness of neck ; pi 
Sometimes merely like a mild sore throa 


Begins like a common cold, followed in i 
days by fits of coughing, which grad 
develop the charactersitic long-drawn wl 
and are often followed by vomiting. 


Pain and stiffness in jaws, feverishness 
limb pains; swelling in front of ears 
under the jaws. May be on one side onl 


Scarcely any preliminary illness; smal 
spots changing in about 24 hours to bl 
(vesicles) containing clear fluid ; these 
and form scabs. Spots at different sta{ 
development. 


More severe than last ; headache, back 
1 vomiting, with rash similar to last; ve 
1 become pustules, then scabs on forehead, 
and hands. 




i 


P3 

g 

^ 


i 


V 

EASLES 


d 

s 

H 


O 
Ota 

58 




2 

55 


M 

2 




1 


W 
J 
PH 
3 


n 

3 


f 

W 


Pd 

1 


p-l 

1 


1 


M 
g 


| 




OQ 


S 


o 


Q 


f 


3 


O 


QQ 



PHY. HYQ. 



481 



CHAPTER VII. 

SCHOOL CLOSUEE AND DISINFECTION. 
CLOSURE. 

THIS is an exceedingly difficult problem at present 
because the public have a firmly fixed idea that the only 
way to combat a school epidemic is to close the schools. 
As a matter of fact the process is extremely clumsy, 
unscientific, and unsatisfactory, and the only purpose it 
serves is to mask the true state of affairs, and to confer 
upon the locality that state of bliss which is said to be 
the invariable accompaniment of ignorance. In towns 
especially it probably has no effect whatever in preventing 
the spread of the disease. 

Article 101, which ceased to operate in March 1903, 
protected the school authorities against the pecuniary loss 
that they might suffer by the exclusion of infected children 
and also children from infected houses. The reason for its 
withdrawal is not obvious. The result is that only by 
obtaining an order for the schools to be closed can the 
education authority prevent its grant being seriously 
reduced. As a consequence the local medical officer of 
health is besieged by requests to close the school directly a 
few cases of infectious disease have occurred, and in many 
cases he thinks it wise to give way to the clamour. The 

482 



SCHOOL CLOSURE AND DISINFECTION. 483 

Board of Education have therefore taken the ill advised 
step of helping to perpetuate an antiquated and unscientific 
system. In country schools alone 'does the mere fact of 
closure influence the spread of an epidemic. 

Occasionally it is necessary to close a school for the 
purpose of making alterations and remedying such defects 
as have been revealed by the systematic inspection and 
examination of the premises, or for the purpose of cleansing 
and disinfecting. If a school is closed for any reason it 
should be thoroughly cleaned and disinfected. 

During epidemics of diphtheria the best procedure has 
already been discussed. Every infected child and every 
" carrier " of the disease can be detected by means of 
bacteriological examination. By the exclusion of all such 
cases, combined with the proper disinfection of the 
premises, and other steps that are discussed under the 
subject of disinfection, the spread of the disease can be 
arrested. 

In the case of measles if the teachers received definite 
instructions to always send home all infants showing 
signs of a cold there would be fewer epidemics. When 
an epidemic does occur the carrying out of vigorous meas- 
ures, and systematic medical inspection combined with the 
exclusion of all children from infected houses, is often 
successful in stamping it out. If these measures prove to 
be unsuccessful it is only necessary to close the infants' 
department. With regard to the other departments it 
may be advisable to exclude those children who have never 
had measles, but information of this kind is difficult to get 
exactly, and such a step should rarely be necessary. 

Epidemics of scarlet fever can usually be arrested by 
taking such steps as have already been outlined. 

It should be particularly borne in mind that school 
closure is often reduced to a farce by the continuance of 



484 SCHOOL CLOSURE AND DISINFECTION. 

the Sunday school and week-day meetings in the building 
in question. No school should be closed under any 
circumstances unless its complete closure for the period 
named can be arranged. 

The Codes up to and including that of 1907 contained 
provisions for school closure, or the exclusion of certain 
scholars from school, somewhat similar to those in the 
present Code. School closure, however, under Article 45 
(6) used to be possible when recommended by Medical 
Authority of any kind, and the ease with which the closure 
could be thus arranged for probably accounts for the habits 
of closure that so many districts appear to have acquired. 

In the present Code, however, this has been altered, and 
. the vague reference to " Medical Authority " is eliminated. 
In its place is the distinct ruling that a school can he 
closed only by the advice of, or with the approval of, the 
School Medical Officer^ or by the Sanitary Authority of the 
district acting on the advice of the Medical Officer of 
Health. That this alteration is not yet fully appreciated 
is shown clearly by the fact that there are still schools 
closed suddenly and without reference at all to either the 
School Medical Officer or the Medical Officer of Health. 

The recent Memorandum, issued jointly by the Local 
Government Board and the Board of Education, will serve 
a most useful purpose if it succeeds in setting the question 
of school closure upon definite lines. Unfortunately, there 
is a tendency to regard it as the beginning and end of the 
treatment of an outbreak of infectious disease. Until the 
public can be taught that this is merely one step among 
many that may be taken in order to combat the spread of 
disease, the process of school closure cannot possibly be of 
any very great value. 

After a school has been closed on account of infectious 
disease, it is extremely common to find infected children 



SCHOOL CLOSURE AND DISINFECTION. 485 

mixing, inside the house and outside, with the healthy ones, 
while in several districts the methods of disinfection after 
infectious illness leave very much to be desired, and pro- 
bably account largely for the fact that the disease continues 
to spread, quite independently of the school conditions. It 
is common also to find the day school closed while Sunday 
schools and meetings for young children are continued. 

The value of school closure as a means for the prevention 
of the spread of infectious disease is undoubtedly mis- 
understood. In the past it has apparently been regarded 
as the first and essential step to take directly any infectious 
disease makes its appearance. There is no doubt that in 
the majority of cases the mere fact of closing the school 
has no effect whatever in checking the spread of disease, 
but merely serves to mask the situation, and to prevent 
such exact knowledge of the progress of events as would 
obviously be available if the school were kept open. A 
careful daily supervision of the scholars, with a weeding 
out of all suspicious cases, is a far more effectual way of 
dealing with the question. In the case of some diseases, 
such as diphtheria, there are means at our disposal where- 
by it can be definitely ascertained whether any of the 
scholars in the school have become infected or not, and 
therefore, for this disease, there should never be any 
necessity for closing the school, except for disinfection. 

Another unfortunate result of an early closure of the 
school is the subsequent alarm that usually spreads through 
the district. When a school is once closed it is very diffi- 
cult to reopen while there is any trace of the disease in the 
neighbourhood, and if an attempt is made in this direction 
the result is that very few scholars put in an appearance 
at the school. This fact in its turn is made a further 
excuse for again closing the school. 

There is no doubt that careful supervision of the scholars, 



486 SCHOOL CLOSTJBB AND DISINFECTION. 

with effectual disinfection of the school premises and 
apparatus, is far more likely to influence the spread of any 
infectious disease than the mere hasty and haphazard 
system of closure adopted at present in many instances. 

DISINFECTION. 

By the term disinfection is meant the total destruction 
of all bacterial life. Substances or processes that are 
capable of effecting this are called disinfectants. It is 
probable that upon no subject in connection with disease is 
there denser ignorance than upon that of disinfection. It 
is still common, for instance, to hear in popular lectures, 
and to read in the lay press, the ancient advice about 
having saucers, filled with substances of more or less value 
as disinfectants, placed about a sick room. It is difficult 
to imagine what useful purpose such a process could 
possibly fulfil unless these well-meaning people consider 
that the microbes or germs of disease are willing and 
anxious to take the necessary suicidal plunge. Surely it 
should be unnecessary to state that no room can be 
disinfected while human beings are in it. It is much 
easier to kill human beings than to exterminate the 
microbes scattered about a room. So long as the room is 
inhabited it is only possible to keep things as clean as 
possible and to flush the room with fresh air. 

Another common error is to use the term disinfectant to 
broadly denote deodorants and antiseptics as well as true 
disinfectants and germicides. A deodorant such as eau 
de Cologne, camphor, tobacco smoke, eucalyptus, etc., 
merely masks a bad smell and has no action upon gernis. 
The term antiseptic should be applied to those substances 
which prevent the development and multiplication of 
germs without destroying them, e.g. Condy's fluid, iodo- 
form, common salt, boracic acid. 



SCHOOL CLOSURE AND DISINFECTION. 487 

Disinfectants may be classified into liquids and gases. 
Among the liquids are carbolic acid, solution of corrosive 
sublimate, formalin, and many patent substances. Any of 
these may be used for disinfecting pencils, desks, slates, 
or the walls and floor of rooms. Gaseous disinfectants 
include chlorine, formaldehyd, sulphur dioxide, hot air, 
and steam. If a gaseous disinfectant is desired for school 
disinfection, the best is probably formaldehyd. 

Boom Disinfection. 

The choice of a disinfectant for school purposes is diffi- 
cult, and the selection of the most suitable method of disin- 
fection is still more so. It is customary to point out that 
bacteriological experiments have shown sulphur dioxide gas 
to be practically useless as an actual disinfectant, but it 
must not be forgotten that not only does the clinging 
odour of such gaseous disinfectants compel thorough 
flushing of the premises with fresh air afterwards, but 
also impresses upon the public mind the fact that such 
processes are being carried out. The use of formaldehyd 
has much more justification, and has been found by the 
author to be an extremely active germicide when diffused 
with steam into the air by means of some such apparatus 
as Lingner's. For good results, however, it is necessary 
to use large quantities of formalin. Formaldehyd also 
has the advantage of a penetrating and clinging odour, 
necessitating flushing with air and scrubbing after its use. 

The use of disinfectant sprays is probably the method of 
the future. The liquid used can be applied in a known 
dilution, and is accordingly more trustworthy than gases 
or vapours. For dirty surfaces the spray will usually have 
a higher capacity to penetrate the dirt than will any gas. 

Schoolrooms should be regarded as places that are bound 
to become infected from time to time, and so it should 



488 SCHOOL CLOSURE AND DISINFECTION. 

become the universal practice to disinfect the surfaces of 
schoolrooms regularly as a routine process. This has been 
done for some time in America. A considerable decrease 
in infectious diseases, particularly scarlet fever, measles, 
infectious colds, etc., has followed the systematic disin- 
fection of school books and school premises. 

The insanitary condition of many of the non-provided 
schools is notorious. Such buildings are usually over- 
worked, and there is no time for proper cleaning. Unless 
ample time for cleaning, disinfecting, and flushing with 
fresh air can be arranged, no premises should be allowed 
to be used as a school. Moreover the average public 
elementary school is not clean. While the buildings are 
new they look bright and fresh, but the condition of the 
majority of schools leaves a great deal to be desired. 

For the periodic routine disinfection of floors the best 
plan is to run over the floor with a mop soaked in a disin- 
fectant solution, and leave the floor thus well moistened 
until the following morning. Of course the disinfecting 
liquid must be of the necessary strength. 

Associated with school disinfection is the dust problem. 
It is impossible to estimate how many children acquire 
some form of tuberculosis, especially consumption, from 
school dust. The author's experiments show an enormous 
difference in the number of organisms in the air when the 
floor is covered with dust-preventing preparations. 

Pens, Pencils, Slates, etc. 

These can be easily disinfected by soaking in disinfectant 
solutions. In most schools these articles are used in com- 
mon, and must be carefully attended to. Modelling clay 
that may have been infected should be disinfected by heat 
and thrown away. 



SCHOOL CLOSURE AND DISINFECTION, 489 

Books, Papers, etc. 

When these may have been infected the best plan is to 
burn them. If this is objected to on the score of economy 
they may be suspended on lines across the room when the 
premises are being disinfected by formaldehyd. Or they 
may be placed on end, with open pages, in an air-tight 
receptacle, and subjected to the action of formaldehyd for 
twenty-four hou r s. 

Probably no ordinary system in use gives really satis- 
factory bacteriological results, and it is quite possible that 
a good dusting and exposure to sunlight in the open air 
would be quite as reliable. Steam disinfection is im- 
possible on account of its disastrous effects upon leather 
and also upon the glutinous material used in the binding. 
The only really satisfactory solution of the problem is the 
provision of separate books to be reserved for the use of 
individual scholars. 

Dr. Kaye suggests as an alternative that each scholar on 
using a book should write his name and the date therein. 
" This would tend to impart an idea of the value of books 
and the care necessary in handling them. It would also 
enable the books recently used by a sick scholar to be 
discovered and destroyed ; and it might furnish valuable 
clues in tracing the course of a disease." 

Desks, etc. 

If gaseous disinfection is used for the rooms the desks 
are left in during the process. Afterwards they must be 
thoroughly scrubbed with disinfectant soap and water. If 
a spray is used the desks must be sprayed - thoroughly and 
then washed. 



INDEX. 



A BDOMEN, 149. 
A Adenoid children, 265. 
Adenoids, 274, 279, 448, 455. 
Air-cells, 130. 

changes in density, 68. 

, composition of, 57, 220. 

, expired, 57. 

, fresh, 57. 
in school, 58. 

, quantity of, 220. 

space, 36. 

, per head, 36. 
Alimentary canal, 131, 183. 
Alveolus, 216. 
Amelioration, 408. 
Ameliorative work, 440. 
Anaemia, 440. 
Antiseptics, 486. 
Aorta, 159, 164. 
Apparatus at each school, 403. 
Aqueous humour, 293. 
Arm-bone, broken, 370. 
Arnott's valve, 75. 

Arrangements for the inspection, 401. 
Arteries, 128, 161. 
Arteriole, 128. 
Artificial respiration, 379. 
Aspect, 22. 
Aspirates, 285. 
Aspiration, 69. 
Assistance to parents, 431. 
Astigmatism, 300. 
Atmosphere, 57. 
Auditory word centre, 260. 
Auricle, 157. 
Automatic closets, 105. 



BABIES, 207. 
Babies, artificial feeding, 
Babies, clothing, 212. 

, food for, 208. 

, sleep, 212. 

, time of feeding, 208. 

,, , variation of diet, 210. 

, washing, 212. 

,, , weaning, 208. 

,, , weight, 213. 
Bacteria in the soil, 104. 
Banner's cowl, 69. 
Basements, 27. 
Baths, 101. 



Bile, 189. 

,, , action of, 195. 
Bites and stings, 368. 
Blackboards, 123. 
Bladder, 152, 224. 
Bleeding, 364. 
Blind children, 434. 
Blinds, 42. 
Blood, 153. 

,, , circulation of, 162. 

,, pressure, 166. 

, uses of, 155. 

vessels, 160. 
Body cavity, 149. 

,, trunk, 149. 
Boots, 241. 
Bottle, feeding, 211. 
Bowels, regular action of, 246. 
Boyle's air-pump ventilator, 69. 

,, mica flap ventilator, 76. 
Brain, 133, 254. 

Breakfasts for school children, 199. 
Breast feeding, 208. 
Breathing exercises, 344, 345, 347. 
Bronchi, 130, 214, 215. 
Bronchioles, 215. 
Bruises, 368. 

Buchanan's disconnecting trap, 98. 
Building, construction of, 25. 
Burns and scalds, 372. 

CAECUM, 187. 
Ij Canines, 169. 
Capillaries, 161. 
Capsule of joint, 146. 
Carbohydrates, 191. 
Carbon dioxide, 59. 

,, ,, , estimation of, 60. 

, permissible quantity, 

60. 

,, produced by respira- 

tion, 62. 
Carpels, 143. 
Cells, 126. 

, epithelial, 127. 
Cement, 171. 
Centres, special, 260. 
Cesspools, 110. 
Chaddock window, 73. 
Changes in the air, 220. 

blood, 221. 



490 



INDEX. 



491 



Chest development, 359. 

,, measurements, 384. 
Chicken pox, 470. 
Children Act, Section 12, 424. 
122, 421. 

requiring attention, 313. 

,, medical attention, 
413. 

,, parental attention, 

417. 

under five, 12. 
Children's teeth, 172. 
Chills and colds, 445. 
Chimney, 70. 
Choosing the site, 22. 
Chordae tendineae, 158. 
Chorea or St. Vitus' Dance. 445. 
Ghoroid, 291. 
Chyle, 196. 
Chyme, 195. 

Circulation, cause of the, 165. 
Circulatory system, 128. 
Cisterns, 95. 

Class, maximum size of, 37. 
Class-room, 36. 
Clavicle, 141. 
Cleanliness, 230, 385. 
Cloak-rooms, 27. 
Closet accommodation, 103. 
Closets, 103. 
Closure, 482. 
Clothes for boys, 244. 
girls, 244. 
Clothing, 238. 

,, for games, 244. 
Coccyx, 138, 143. 
Collar bone, 141. 

,, , broken, 370. 
Colon, ascending, 187. 
, descending, 187. 
,, , transverse, 187. 
Complemental air, 220. 
Composition of sweat, 229. 
Compulsory education, 10. 
Condition of teeth, 385. 
Conduction, 45. 

Congenital affections of heart, 450. 
Consonants, 285. 
Consumption in the Army, 65. 
Convection, 45. 
Convulsions, 271, 
Cool air in summer, 88. 
Corpuscles, 153. 

, red, 153. 

, white, 154. 
Corridors, 36. 
Corsets, 241. 

Cost of artificial ventilation, 84. 
Costal cartilages, 140. 
Cranium, 136. 
Cretinism, 271. 
Crystalline lens, 293. 
Curved spine, 442. 



DAMP, 20. 
Damp-proof courses, 25. 
Dead speech, 456. 
Deaf children, 278, 435. 
Deafness, 274. 
Defective and Epileptic Children Act 

1899, 267. 
Defective children, 262, 439. 

,, detection of, 265. 

,, ,, provision for spe- 

cially, 434. 

,, ,, schools for, 267. 

,, teeth, 412. 
,, vision, children with, 413. 
Deformities, 376. 
Dendrites, 251. 
Dentine, 171. 
Deodorants, 486. 
Dermis, 227. 
Desks, 111. 

,, , adjustment of, 117. 

,, , arrangement of, 122. 

., , cleaning of, 124. 

,, , for infants, 121. 

, reading, 113. 

, writing, 113. 

, " minus," 115, 116. 

, multiple, 120, 123. 

," plus," 114. 

, single, 120. 

,, , sizes of, 118. 

, varieties of, 114. 

,, , "zero," 115. 

Development of special centres, 261. 
Diaphragm, 150, 218. 
Diarrhoea, 446. 
Diffusion, 66. 
Digestion, 193. 
Digestive system, 131, 180. 
Dinners for school children, 199. 
Diphtheria, 478. 

,, antitoxin, 480. 

Dirty heads, treatment of, 418. 
Disinfection, 462, 482, 486, 488, 489. 
District sub-committees, 424. 
Drill, 333. 
Drowning, 378. 
Dumb children, 278. 
Duodenum, 151, 183. 

EAR, 273, 386. 
Ear discharge, 275. 
Ear, foreign body in, 375. 
Earache, 275. 

Early injuries to the body, 4. 
Earth-closet, 104. 
Eczema, 452. 
Education (Administi-ative Provisions) 

Act, 387. 
of girls, 355. 

(Provision of Meals) Act, 439. 
Effect of vaccination, 469. 
Effects of adenoids, 280. 



492 



INDEX. 



Elbow joint, 143. 

Elementary Education (Blind and Deaf 

Children) Act 1893, 434. 
Elevation, 22. 
Ellison's bricks, 75. 
Enamel, 171. 
Endocardium, 158. 
Endothelium, 161. 
Entrances, 31. 
Epidemic diseases, 460. 
Epidermis, 227. 
Epiglottis, 282. 
Epilepsy, 376. 

Epileptic children, 269, 439. 
Essentials of education, 6. 
Eustachian tube, 274. 
Examinations, 360. 
Exclusion, 462. 

of children, 407. 

Excretion, 223. 
Excretory system, 132 
Exercise, physiological effects of, 339. 
Expiration, 218, 219. 
Extraction, 87. 

processes, 82. 

Eye, accommodation of, 295. 
,, , coats of, 291. 
,, , congestion of, 307. 
^ , contents of, 293. 
defects, treatment, 309. 
diseases, 446. 

, foreign body in, 374. 

, long-sighted, 298. 

, muscles of, 294. 

, short-sighted or myopic, 297. 

, strain, 303, 448. 

, structure of, 2'Jl. 
Eyes,- 290, 385. 
,, , defective, 297. 
Eyesight, 290, 3S5. 

FACE bones, 137. 
Fainting, 375. 
Fans, 82. 
Fatigue, 350. 
Fats, 191. 
Favus, 454. 

Feeble-minded children, 436. 
Feeding of school children, 198. 
Femur, 143. 
Ferments, 182. 
Fibula, 144. 
Filters, Berkfeld, 94. 

,, Pasteur-Chamberland, 94. 
Flat foot, 145, 443. 
Floating ribs, 141. 
Floors, 25. 

,, , cleaning of, 124. 
Food, 189. 

, excess or deficiency of, 197. 

of children, 192. 
Foods, classification of, 190. 

,, , examples of, 178. 



Foods, nitrogenous, 1S.U 

, uses of, 190. 
Foot, 144. 
Foot-rests, 120. 
Forearms, broken, 370. 
Foreign bodies in throat, stomach, eye, 

nose, ear, skin, 373. 
Fracture, compound, 368. 

, simple, 368. 
Fresh air, amount required, 62. 
Functional disorders of heart, 450. 

flAMES, 341. 
IJ Ganglia, 258. 
Garters, 241. 
Gas, 42. 
fires, 48. 
stoves, 48. 
Gastric juice, 184, 185. 

,, ,, , action of, 191. 

General amelioration, 427. 

development, 384. 
German measles, 475. 
Glands, 131. 

, parotid, 181. 

M , protoplasm of, 127. 

, salivary, 181. 

' , sublingual, 181. 

, submaxillary, 181. 
Glazed bricks, 25, 26. 
Glottis, 282. 
Gorst, Sir John, 1. 
Ground air, 17. 

,, , composition of, 17. 

,, , movements of, 18. 

,, water, 16, 17. 

, level of, 20, 21, 22. 

Growth, 358. 
Gymnasium, 343. 

HABITS, 245. 
Haemoglobin, 153, 155. 
Hair follicle, 230. 
Hairs, 230. 

Hats, tightly fitting, 240. 
Headaches, 448. 
Health at school, 1. 
,, visitors, 432. 
Heart, 128, 155. 

, beat of, 159. 

disease, 450. 

,, , structure of, 157. 
Heating, 44. 
Height and weight, 384. 
Hepatic artery, 165. 

vein, 165. 

High pressure system of pipes. 50. 
Hilus, 224. 
Hip bones, 143. 
Holiday tasks, 362. 
Holidays, 362. 
Holophane glass globe, 42. 
Home-work, 361. 



INDEX. 



493 



Hospitals, 430. 
Hot pipes, 54. 
Hot-water pipes, 49. 
Hours of school work, 355. 

work, 354. 
Humerus, 142. 
Hydrocarbons, 191. 
Hydrocephalus, 270. 
Hysteria, 377. 

TLEOCAECAL valve, 187. 

JL Illumination, amount of, 40. 

Illumination, test of, 41. 

Immunity, 462. 

Impetigo, 452. 

Improper feeding, 174. 

Incandescent burners, 44. 

Incisors, 169. 

Indigestion, 451. 

Infantile mortality, 6. 

,, ,, , suggested remedies 

for, 9. 
Infection, prevention of, 462. 

, spread of, 461. 
Inferior vena cava, 165. 
Inflamed eyeball, 448. 
Infundibula, 216. 
Inlets, 74, 86. 

,, , position of, 70. 
Inspection chamber, 97. 

,, , medical, 404. 
Inspiration, 218. 
Instruction, in care of infants, hygiene, 

and temperance, 2. 
,, of girls, 2. 
Intercostal spaces, 141. 
Intermediate style of writing, 325. 
Internal wall surfaces, 26. 
Intervals of rest, 352. 
Intervertebral discs, 139. 
Intestinal juice, 187. 
Intestines, 131. 

Involuntary muscles, 133, 147. 
Isolation, 462. 
Itch or scabies, 454. 

TAW, broken, 369. 
J Joints, 145. 
Joints, affected, 443. 
in drains, 97. 

KIDNEYS, 132, 152, 223. 
Kneecap, 143. 

T ACTEAL, 199. 
JJ Large intestine, 152, 187. 
Larynx, 214, 281. 
Lavatories, 27, 99. 
Lectures to teachers, 395. 
Left-hand exercises, 247. 
Leg, broken, 371. 
Leucocytes, 154. 
Lever-, kinds of, 148. 



Ligaments, 146. 
Light, direction of, 39. 

,, , incandescent electric, 42. 
Lighting, 38. 

, artificial, 42, 
by prisms, 41. 
Liver, 151, 188. 
Long leossns, 351. 

,, sight, signs of, 308. 
Loss from the lungs, 222. 
Louvre ventilator, 73. 
Low-pressure system of pipes, 49. 
Lower limb, 143. 
Lungs, 130, 216. 
Lymph, 167. 
Lymphatic glands, 168. 
* system, 167. 

MAOROOEPHALUS, 270. 
Majority Report of the Royal 
Commission on the Poor Law, 
436. 

Malnutrition, 174, 198 
McKinnell's ventilator, 76. 
Meals, serving, 201. 
Measles, 473. 

Mechanical ventilation, 32. 
Medical assistance, lack of, 428. 

inspection, 404. 

,, inspection and supervision, 381 

,, in schools, 14. 

,, treatment, provision of, 432. 
Mental deficiency, causes of, 269. 
Mentally defective children, 438. 
Metabolism, 127. 
Metacarpals, 143. 
Metatarsals, 144. 
Microcephalus, 270. 
Milk teeth, 169, 179. 
Minority Report of the Royal Commis- 

sion on the Poor Law, 436. 
Minus desk, 115, 116. 
Mitral, 159. 
Moisture in air, 91. 
Mother, rules for the, 213. 
Mother's milk, 208. 
Motor centres, 255. 

,, speech centre, 260. 
Mouth breathing, 178, 344, 455. 
Mumps, 477. 
Muscles, 132, 146. 

, involuntary, 133, 147. 
,, , voluntary, 133, 146. 
Muscular system, 132. 



Itf-AILS, 230. 

1> Nasal catarrh, 448. 

Natural ventilation, 66, 81. 

,, , value of, 76. 
Nerve-cells, 133, 251. 

,, -centres, 133. 

-fibres, 133, 251. 

,, , motor, 147. 



494 



INDEX. 



Nerves, 256. 

Nervous system, 133, 251. 

of the infant, 258. 
Nitrifying bacteria, 16. 
Nose and throat, 386. 
,, bleeding, 367. 
, , , foreign body in, 374. 
Notification, 462. 

,, by attendance officers, 463. 

,, health visitors, 468. 

medical officers, 468. 

,, school nurses, 468. 

teachers, 467. 
Nucleus, 154. 

OESOPHAGUS, 181, 180, 182. 
Open air schools, provision of, 440. 
Open air teaching, 24. 
fires, 45, 54. 
,, , disadvantages, 46. 
Openings in walls or roofs, 74. 
Organic matter in air, 63. 

,, or acquired heart disease, 450. 
Organisation of medical inspection, 387. 
Outlets, 75, 86. 

,, , position of, 70. 
Overcrowding, 56. 
Over-pressure in mental work, 357. 
Over-work, signs and symptoms of, 357. 

PANCREAS, 131, 152, 188. 
Pancreatic juice, 189. 
Pancreatic juice, action of, 195. 
Parents, notices to, 408, 411. 
Parotid glands, 181. 
Patella, 143. 
Pawnshop, 243. 
Pelvic cavity, 143. 
Pelvis, 143. 

of the kidney, 224. 
Pen, holding the, 328. 
Pepsin, 185. 
Peptones, 185, 194. 
Perflation, 69. 
Pericardium, 150. 
Peristaltic contraction, 196. 
Peritoneum, 150, 185. 
Permanent teeth, 170, 179. 
Personal appearance, 384. 
cleanliness, 223. 
Perspiration, 229. 
Peyer's patches, 187. 
Phalanges, 143, 144. 
Pharynx, 131, 180, 214. 
Physical degeneration, 356. 

,, exercises, 334. 
Physically defective children, 435. 
Pitch, 283. 
Plasma, 153. 
Plaster, 26. 
Playground, 24. 
Plenum methods, 82. 



Pleura, 150. 
Poisoning, 377. 
Poor law, 430. 

,, ,, administration, 409. 
,, ,, methods, 410. 
,, , Hoyal Commission on, 436. 
Pores, 229. 
Portal circulation, 165. 

,, vein, 165. 
Position for reading, 318. 
standing, 330. 
writing, 322, 329. 
, injurious, 317. 
Posture, ideal sitting, 316. 
Postures, 315. 

, general rules about, 331. 
Priestley Smith, 44, 118. 
Process of digestion, 197. 
Production of speech, 284. 
Propulsion, 84. 

processes, 82. 
Proteids, 191. 
Protoplasm, 127. 
Provision of health visitors, 432. 
of meals, 439. 
,, of Meals Act 1906, 198. 
Proximate principles of food, 191. 
Ptyalin, 181. 

Pulmonary artery, 158, 163. 
circulation, 165. 
veins, 159, 163. 
Pulse, 166. 
Pupil of eye, 292. 
Pyramids of kidney, 225. 

QUARANTINE, 462. 



RADIATION, 45. 
Radius, 142. 
Rainwater, 93. 

,, separator, 93. 
Rate of growth, 112, 206. 
Recess, 341. 
Rectum, 152, 188. 
Red eyes, 447. 
Reflex acts, 257. 
Residual air, 220. 
Resonants, 285. 
Respiration, 218. 
Respiratory system, 130, 214. 
Results of inspection, 406. 
Retina, 292. 
Ribbed glass, 41. 
Ribs, 140. 

,, , broken, 370. 
Rickets, 444. 
Ringworm, 416, 453. 
Room disinfection, 487. 
Rooms for meals, 201. 
Routine examinations, 389. 
inspection, 394. 



INDEX. 



495 



SACRUM, 138, 143. 
Saliva, 180. 
Saliva, action of, 194. 
Salivary glands, 131, 181. 
Scapula, 141. 
Scarlatina, 471. 
Scarlet fever, 471. 
School baths, 236, 440. 
cards, 391, 392. 
clinics, 433. 
closure, 482. 
drains, 95. 
fittings, 111. 
, general plan of, 32. 
lavatories, 101. 
meals, organisation of, 200. 
medical officer, 381. 
rooms, deficient and faulty il- 
lumination of, 38. 
, Staffordshire type of, 35, 82. 

uniform, 243. 
Sclerotic, 291. 
Sebaceous glands, 229. 
Secretion, 131. 
Sensations, muscular, 289. 
of pain, 289. 
,, temperature, 289. 
Shallow wells, 92. 
Sherringham valve, 74. 
Short sight, 301. 

,, ,, , causes of, 301. 

, signs of, 308. 
Shoulder-blade, 141. 
bones, 141. 
joint, 141. 
Shower baths, 101, 102. 
Sight- testing of school children, 312. 
Sigmoid flexure, 188. 
Siphon traps, 98. 
Siphonage, 101, 109. 
Site of the school, 15. 
Sitting height, 113. 
Skeleton, 136. 
Skin, 226. 
diseases, 450. 
, foreign body in, 375. 
, glands of, 229. 
,, , loss of heat by the, 239. 
, , structure of, 227. 
Skull, 136. 

,, , fractured, 366. 
Slanting style of writing, 325. 
Sleep, 248. 
Small intestine, 151, 185. 

pox, 469. 
Smell, 287. 
Soil, 15. 

,, and all lung diseases, 20. 
,, , influence on health, 20. 
,, pipe, 108. 
,, , surface, 15. 
Soils, classification of, 16. 
, diseases associated with, 21. 



Soils, impervious, 16. 

, made, 20. 

, porous, 16. 

, undesirable, 20. 

, warmth of, 21. 
So e throats, 280, 459. 
Special centres, 260. 
Spinal column, 137. 

cord, 133, 136, 256. 
Spitting, 247. 
Spleen, 152. 

Sprains and dislocations, 371. 
Spread of infection, 461. 
Springs, 92. 
Squint, 300. 

Staffordshire type of school, 35, 82. 
Staircases, 31. 
Stammering, 286. 
Starches, 191. 
Stationary air, 220. 
Sternum, 140, 141. 
Stomach, 131, 183. 

,, , foreign body in, 374. 
Stoves, 47, 54. 
Stroma, 153. 
Stye, 447. 

Style of writing, 325. 
Sublingual glands, 181. 
Submaxillary glands, 181. 
Subsoil, 15. 
Suffocation, 378. 
Sugars, 191. 

Summary sheets, 394, 396. 
Superior vena cava, 165. 
Supplemental air, 220. 
Supply of drinking water, 94. 
Surroundings of site, 23. 
Survival of the fittest, 8. 
Sweat glands, 227, 229. 
Sweetbread, 131, 152. 
Swimming baths, 101. 
Sympathetic nervous system, 258. 
Synovial fluid, 146. 

,, membrane, 146. 
System of records, 390. 
Systematic circulation, 165. 

mABLE of infectious diseases, 481. 
1 Tabular glands, 184. 
Tarsal bones, 144. 
Teachers, 400. 

, help of, 389. 

,, , platforms for, 123. 

, selection of special cases by, 

403. 

, work by, 394. 
Teaching of unsuitable subjects, 1. 
Teeth, care of the, 169, 178. 

, causes of decay in, 174. 

, decay of, 174. 

, decayed, 173. 

, number of, 179. 

, prevention of decay in, 175, 177. 



496 



INDEX. 



Teeth, structure of, 171. 


Ventilation, natural, 66, 81. 


Temperature of schoolroom, 53. 


of drain, 98. 


Testing drains, 99. 


,, ,, large village schools, 83. 


,, of eyesight, 310. 


i, ,, rural schools, 90. 


Tests of hearing, 276. 


,, town schools, 89. 


Thigh bone, 143. 


, openings for, 70. 


,, , broken, 371. 


, testing of, 88. 


Thorax, 140, 149. 


Ventricle, 157. 


Throat, 278. 


Venules, 129. 


,, , obstruction in, 373. 


Venus blood, 129. 


Tibia, 143. 


Vermiform appendix, 187. 


Tidal air, 220. 


Verminous children, treatment of, 431. 


Tight clothes, 242. 


Vertebra, 138. 


collar, 241. 


Vertebral column, 137. 


Tightly fitting hats, 241. 


Vertical style of writing, 326. 


Time-table, daily, 353. 


Villi, 187. 


Times for games, 354. 


Violent exercise and training, 33S. 


Tobiris tubes, 73. 


Visual word centre, 260. 


Tonsils, enlarged, 458. 


Vitreous humour, 293. 


Tooth-brush drill, 176. 


Voice, 281. 


Touch, 288. 


,, , care of, 286. 


Tourniquet, 366. 


,, , production, 283. 


Trachea, 130, 214. 


Voluntary muscles, 133, 146. 


Training for violent exercise, 838 
,, of teachers, 9. 


Vomiting, 375. 
Vowel sounds, 284. 


Trap for sinks, 98. 




Traps in drains, 97. 




Tricuspid valve, 158. 


WALLS, 25. 


Trough closets, 107. 
Tubules of kidney, 225. 


Walls, cleaning of, 124. 
Walls, colour of, 27. 


Twitching of the eyelids, 447. 


Water-closets, 106. 


Tympanum, 273. 


supply, 92. 
,, >, i pollution of, 93. 


ULNA, 142. 
Unclean heads, 232. 
Underfed children, 193. 
Urea, 226. 
Ureters, 152, 224. 


Well, artesian, 92. 
, deep, 92. 
Wenham burners, 44. 
Wheatley, 177. 
Whooping cough, 476. 
Wind 69. 


Urinals, 109. 


Window ventilation, 71. 


Urine, 132. 


Windows, 39. 




, cleaning of, 42, 124. 


T7ACUUM methods, 82. 


,, , obstructed, 41. 


V Value of school closure, 485. 


Windpipe, 130. 


Valvulae conniventes, 186. 


Winds, 68. 


Varieties of defective children, 264. 


Wisdom teeth, 170. 


Veiled look, 457. 


Word-blind children, 439. 


Veins, 129, 162. 


,, blindness, 264. 


Ventilating grates, 47. 


-deaf children, 439. 


pipe, 98. 


deafness, 264. 


stoves, 48. 
Ventilation, 5, 32, 56. 


Work, external, 190. * 
,, , internal, 190. 


, cross, 35, 39. 


, , of attendance officers, 426. 


,, , effects of bad, 64. 


Wounds, 364. 


in summer, 78. 


Wrist bones, 143. 


in winter, 78. 
, mechanical, 32. 


joint, 143. 
Writing centre, 260. 


, methods of, 66. 


,, for beginners, 324. 



PRINTED AT THE BURLINGTON PRESS, FOXTON, NEAR CASreKIIXJE, ENGLAND. 



8 



*3 



u 



3 



01 



Uoi?ersity of Toronto 
Library 



DO NOT 

REMOVE 

THE 

CARD 

FROM 

THIS 

POCKET 




Acme Library Card Pocket 

Under Pat "Ref . Index File" 
Made by LIBRARY BUREAU 



