SWFANT^YOUNC 
ILD WELFARE 



-CD 
=h- 
;^ 

!co 



ID SCURFIELD 

M.D. 




me 



presented to 

Gbe Xibrarp 

of tbe 

Tflniver0it\> of Toronto 



op 



v 



ENGLISH PUBLIC HEALTH SERIES 
Edited by SIR MALCOLM MORRIS, K.C.V.O, 



BEPABTUENT OF PUBLIO HEALTH K 

UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO 



INFANT AND YOUNG CHILD 
WELFARE 



s. 



Infant and 
Young Child Welfare 



BY 

HAROLD SGURFIELD 

M.D.Ed., D.P.H.Camb. 

Medical Officer of Health of Sheffield ; Professor of Public 
Health in the University of Sheffield 




GASSELL AND COMPANY, LTD 

London, New York, Toronto and Melbourne 



First Published 1919 



PREFACE 

CHILD welfare is no longer a subject that interests 
only doctors and social workers. It is a living issue 
to-day. On all sides our attention is called to the 
needs of the baby and the mother. Recent legis- 
lation has forced the subject on local authorities. 
There is a deep and widespread determination 
among all classes of society that in future the 
children shall be better cared for than they have 
been in the past. 

In one sense the problem is simple; it all 
depends on good mothering. In another sense it 
is complex because, in trying to remove the hin- 
drances to good motherhood, we are up against 
every social problem. One thing is certain. No 
one will contest the importance of the problem, or 
the fact that upon our solution of it depends the 
future of the British Commonwealth. 

The aim of this book is to give a bird's-eye 
view of the whole question of child welfare, and 
it is hoped that it may prove to be of interest to 
the general reader as well as to members of local 
authorities, midwives, maternity, district, and 
other nurses, health visitors, members of Volun- 



Preface 

tary Aid Detachments, and all those who realise 
the supreme importance to the country of healthy 
children. 

To Sir Hall Caine and Messrs. Hodder and 
Stoughton I tender thanks for permission to quote 
from "The Queen's Gift Book " the stanzas which 
appear on p. i. 

H.S. 



M 



CONTENTS 

Introduction 

PAGE 

So-called Darwinism and Infant Mortality The Survival 
of the Fittest and Tuberculosis Benjamin Kidd on 
Eugenics On Social Heredity How a Merrier Eng- 
land may be built up . 3 

CHAPTER I 
Healthy Parents 

Mental Deficiency Epilepsy Alcoholism Gonorrhoea 
Syphilis Tuberculosis Certificates of Fitness for 
Marriage 10 

CHAPTER II 
Healthy Homes 

Minimum Requirements of a Healthy Home Women 
Architects Hot-water Supply The Larder Ventila- 
tion Aspect of the Kitchen Doors The Sink 
Carpets Bath and Bathroom Facilities for Drying 
Self-contained Cottages or Flats Landlord and 
Tenant 25 



CHAPTER III 
The Mother 

Ideals of Motherhood Breast-feeding Motherhood as 
affected by Race and Religion The Jews The Irish 
Infant Mortality in Bradford compared with Con- 

vii 



Contents 



PAGE 



naught In Sheffield compared with Bradford In 
Dublin Among English and Irish Mothers in Liver- 
poolItalian Ideals of Motherhood The Society of 
Friends and Family Life 38 

CHAPTER IV 
The Training of the Mother 

Training of Future Mothers Lack of Domestic Servants 
Training of Existing Mothers Scheme of Instruc- 
tion in Domestic Subjects for Girls of School Age 
Scheme of Instruction up to Eighteen Years of Age . 61 



CHAPTER V 
Child Poverty 

Children of Widows and Disabled B read-winners 
Children of Large Families Children of Neglectful 
Parents Illegitimate Children , . . . 69 



CHAPTER VI 
An Efficient Medical Service 

Infant Hygiene and the Medical Curriculum The Family 
Doctor A Dental Service Out-patient Departments 
Medical Treatment for all Children Claims of the 
Wives and Children of the Insured .... 80 

CHAPTER VII 
Management of the Baby 

Breast-feeding Risks of Bottle-feeding Alleged Inability 
of Many Women to Nurse their Children Influence 
of the Monthly Nurse Ignorance of Mothers as to 
Breast-feeding Number of Feeds 'Cow's Milk Dried 
Milk Food after Weaning Fresh Air Sleep Posture 

viii 



Contents 



Exercise Clothing Cleanliness Old Wives' Fables 
Ophthalmia Neonatorum Infectious Disease Town 
Life . 88 



CHAPTER VIII 
Management of the Ex-Baby 

Prolonged Lactation Irregular Feeding .Improper Food 
(Care of the Teeth Fresh Air Rest and Sleep- 
Rickets Discharging Ears and Adenoids Bad Teeth 
Blepharitis Skin Affections Infectious Diseases 
Tuberculosis Clothing Death-rates of Children 
Education Discipline Character Training . . . 109 



CHAPTER IX 
Institutions to Help the Mother 

Maternity and Child Welfare Centres Health Visitors and 
Women Sanitary Inspectors Day Nurseries What 
some Mothers have to do Day Nurseries without 
Gardens Factory Creches Residential Nurseries 
Mother-substitutes not wanted Nursery Schools . . 130 



Conclusion 

Raising the Ideals of Motherhood Beginning with the 
Young An Appeal to the Churches and the Teaching 
Profession 149 

APPENDIX : Breast-feeding 152 

INDEX 161 



IX 



// He ordered that the mother for the children of her 

womb 
Should dare her death by travail and fight till crack of 

doom, 
He ordained that by that impulse, still the purest and the 

best, 
She should gather all that suffer in her pity to her breast. 

Nurturing, nursing, guarding, giving strength with heart 
and hand, 

Paying toll in pangs to Nature which no man may under- 
stand, 

Dauntless from the God who made her without fear to draw 
her breath, 

Saviour of the weak and helpless, first at birth and last at 
death. 

Since, the Lord creating Woman, she became a living 

soul, 
Hers has been the old Earth's burthen, age on age, from pole 

to pole, 
Hers the conflict, hers the conquest, hers the flag of life 

unfurl' d, 
Hers the sorrow, hers the suffering, hers the love that rules 

the world. 

HALL CAINE, in " The Queen's Gift Book." 



INFANT AND YOUNG CHILD 
WELFARE 

INTRODUCTION 

SO-CALLED Darwinism has been applied to the pro- 
blem of infant mortality. One frequently meets 
people who think that a high mortality and slum 
conditions provide for the removal of the " surplus " 
population and the " survival of the fittest." I 
came across a good example of this a few years 
ago in a book written by an African missionary. 
The author, in drawing attention to the terribly 
high rate of infant mortality among the primitive 
tribes, uses these words : " The life of an African 
child is a constant witness to the practical truth 
of the Darwinian principle of the survival of the 
fittest/' and then goes on to say, " Perhaps if some 
of the safeguards so elaborately gathered round 
English children were removed we should see some 
compensation for a higher death-rate in an improved 
stamina and physique." The author in question 
dedicates his book " To my mother, to whose 
guidance I owe my inspiration, and to whose 
watchful care I owe my physical equipment for 
the work of the mission-field." On his own show- 



Infant and Young Child 

ing, if his mother had indulged in a little judicious 
neglect he would have been either conveniently 
dead or " fitter " than ever. 

Can the doctrine of the survival of the fittest 
be applied to our method or want of method as 
a community in the rearing of children ? Darwin 
pointed out that every organic being naturally 
increases at so high a rate that if there were no 
destruction of life the earth would soon be covered 
by the progeny of a single pair, and that as a result 
there is a constant struggle for existence between 
various races of animals. It thus came about that 
those animals of a particular kind which possessed 
slight peculiarities that enabled them to cope 
with their environment tended to survive and 
propagate their species, and to hand down to their 
descendants by heredity the advantageous pecu- 
liarities. As these peculiarities became more and 
more marked, generation by generation, new types 
of animals became evolved. This, briefly, was the 
principle of the evolution of new types by natural 
selection. The types which survived were not 
necessarily the highest ; they were simply those 
which were fittest to cope with the dangers of 
their environment at the time being. 

If Darwin's principle could be applied to life 
under slum conditions, all that it would mean 
would be that the survivors were the fittest to 
live in slums ! 

It may be that in a slum the babies fittest to 
combat slum conditions survive, but we have to 
bear in mind that very many of the fit babies 

4 



Introduction 

become maimed in the process. If the sole object 
of life were to endure slum conditions, the doctrine 
might have some weight, but does it follow that 
the baby best able to stand slum conditions is 
going to be the best man or woman to hand on the 
torch of civilisation ? 

Akin to the doctrine of the usefulness of slums 
in providing for the survival of the fittest is the 
theory that it is a mistake to attempt to control 
the infection of tuberculosis, and that by so doing 
we are tending to rear a race of weaklings. This 
theory occasionally receives support from mem- 
bers of the medical profession, who apparently 
regard the tubercle bacillus as a useful means of 
keeping up the tone of the disease-fighting cells 
of our bodies. Athletes, however, as well as 
scholars die from tuberculosis, and it must be 
repeated that there is no evidence that the persons 
who put up the best fight against the tubercle 
bacillus are the " fittest " for carrying on the 
work of the world and the progress of humanity. 
We are born tuberculisable, not tuberculous, and 
if a man succumbs to tuberculosis it is because he 
has been exposed to big doses of infection or be- 
cause his resistance to tuberculosis was slight. 
It is quite as unreasonable to say that a strong 
man who dies from tuberculosis must have been 
a weakling as it is to say that the men who die 
from typhoid fever or pneumonia were weaklings 
because their powers of resistance to these diseases 
were insufficient. The owner of a pedigree bull 
does not consider the animal a weakling because 

5 



Infant and Young Child 

he has to take steps to protect him from the in- 
fection of tuberculosis. 

It must be a good thing for each individual to 
lead the kind of life that strengthens resistance 
against tuberculosis, and surely it must be a bad 
thing to expose oneself unnecessarily to the tuber- 
culous infection. 

Most readers of " The Science of Power " will 
probably agree with Benjamin Kidd that the doc- 
trine of the survival of the fittest has no message 
for students of social evolution. 

Darwin recorded what happened when Nature 
was left to herself, and his theory no doubt pro- 
vided a satisfactory explanation of the evolution 
of the animal world and the gradually acquired 
dominance of primitive man over the brute 
creation. 

Kidd shows how the survival of the fittest has 
tended to the gradual perfecting in the individual 
of every quality contributing to his own efficiency 
in pursuit of self-interest. He further shows that 
the Darwinian theory has been used to justify 
the German doctrine that might is right, the ap- 
plication of force to the solution of industrial 
problems, the ruthless race for wealth, and pro- 
posals for the scientific breeding of humanity. The 
last-named is a revival of the views advanced in 
Plato's ''Republic." Family life is ignored. Men 
and women are selected for breeding purposes, 
and great care is to be taken of the offspring of 
these selected types. " But the children of the 
more depraved, and such others as are in any 

6 



Introduction 

way imperfect, they will hide in some secret and 
obscure place, as is proper," or " expose it as a 
creature for which no provision is made." Some 
sanitarians seem to flirt with this idea of breeding 
from selected types. Even if it were feasible, 
what is to be done with the offspring of the un- 
selected types ? Are they to be got rid of, as in 
Plato's Republic ? Again, when we come to pro- 
vide thus artificially for the survival of the fittest, 
who are the fit ? The brainy persons with poor 
bodies, or the brawny persons with poor brains ? 
The former would include Calvin, Richelieu, William 
of Orange, Chatham, Robert Louis Stevenson, 
Chopin, Darwin, and a host of other makers of 
history. Weakly babies often grow up to be 
strong men and women, and one wonders how 
many useful citizens the Spartan Council of Elders 
ordered to be thrown down the cavern of Mount 
Taygetus. Nelson was a weakly child, who might 
have been condemned at birth by a Spartan Council 
of Elders, and would certainly have been killed 
by slum conditions. I do not think, however, 
that many people can seriously believe in slums 
as improvers of the race. Fewer still will regard 
schemes for the scientific breeding of humanity as 
practical politics. Men and women are not going 
to have their mating regulated by a eugenic priest- 
hood, and the most we can do is to endeavour 
to prevent the marriages of such as syphilitics, 
epileptics, alcoholics, mental defectives, and per- 
sons suffering from an infectious stage of tubercu- 
losis. The aim of scientific breeding would be to 

7 



Infant and Young Child 

produce a few supermen, the trend of social evolu- 
tion is to give every child a chance and to raise 
the average. We might use the simile of a com- 
petition between teams of harriers. We want a 
good average, and not a team composed of a few 
brilliant runners and a " hopeless tail." 

It has for long been the ethical code of Medicine 
to use all its powers to prolong human life, how- 
ever maimed, and Preventive Medicine must square 
its efforts with that code. 

Kidd's writings have helped us to realise the 
deadening effect of an exaggerated belief in the 
doctrine of heredity, and will inspire us to take 
up with renewed vigour the question of improving 
the environment. 

One of the most interesting chapters in " The 
Science of Power " is that on " Social Heredity," 
in which it is shown that many of the character- 
istics of animals which have hitherto been regarded 
as hereditary habits or instincts are not really 
due to inborn heredity at all, but are acquired 
after birth as part of the social inheritance which 
the adults of the species impose by example and 
training on the young of each generation. 

The War has brought us down to the realities 
of life, and we realise as we never did before that 
the health and education of the children are the 
chief things that matter. Failure to care for the 
young life is not only folly in a nation but an 
offence against humanity. We want healthy babies 
born of healthy mothers in healthy homes. After 
they are born, the parents must have sufficient 

8 



Introduction 

means to maintain them, and the aid when neces- 
sary of an efficient medical service. 

We look back rather vaguely to a merry England 
some time in the past, and no doubt we have 
suffered from urbanisation and the introduction of 
factory and modern industrial conditions, but still 
a study of the old church registers does not leave 
one altogether laudator temporis acti as regards 
child life. 

If every child has a chance, and every family 
a real home, we shall have built up a merrier 
England than ever existed before. 



CHAPTER I 
Healthy Parents 

THE infant science of Eugenics has not much bear- 
ing as yet on the problem of child welfare, and 
schemes for the " scientific breeding " of humanity 
are not within the region of practical politics. We 
cannot select the sires and dams, as in breeding 
racehorses. It is said, however, that every infant 
has a right to be " well born," but up to the pre- 
sent that only means that an infant has a moral 
right to be born in a reasonable environment and 
of parents free from certain diseases or defects 
which may be communicated to it before or imme- 
diately after birth. 

Five of these diseases or defects about which 
there is general agreement are mental deficiency, 
epilepsy, alcoholism, venereal disease, and tubercu- 
losis. 

Let us consider these subjects in turn. 

Mental deficiency. The law ought not to 
allow mental defectives to marry or to have chil- 
dren. The Mental Deficiency Act of 1913 does 
something in this matter, but does not go far 
enough. The Act does not directly prohibit the 
marriage of " defectives/' but it has some effect 
in the promotion of this desirable object indirectly 
by providing for the permanent care of the 

10 



Healthy Parents 

" defectives " in institutions under certain circum- 
stances. The cases which, in the opinion of the 
Education Authority, require to be sent to an 
institution or placed under supervision are to be 
reported to the Local Authority, with whom it 
rests to take the necessary action. Two recent 
cases which have been brought to my notice will 
illustrate what may happen. A clergyman re- 
ported that he had been asked to marry two per- 
sons whom he knew to be mentally defective. 
Inquiries were at once set on foot. The girl was 
found not only to be mentally defective, but also 
to be suffering from venereal disease. The mar- 
riage was prevented by her being sent to an in- 
stitution. In the second case, a clergyman re- 
fused to marry two " defectives/' and they were 
married by licence before a registrar, the girl 
being pregnant at the time. The girl in this case 
was seventeen years old, and the man, who had 
been rejected from the Army on account of his 
mental deficiency, twenty-three years of age. 
Special provision is made in the Act for sending 
to an institution a defective who is in receipt of 
poor relief at the time of giving birth to an illegiti- 
mate child or when pregnant with such a child. 

For dealing with this question efficiently the 
law requires to be strengthened, but in addition 
to this far more institutions for the accommodation 
of mental defectives are needed. The provision of 
these very necessary institutions is one of the 
many matters which have been postponed by 
the War. 

ii 



Infant and Young Child 

The prevention of the marriage of mental 
defectives would deal with the most unpleasant 
phase of this problem, but it would not deal with 
the whole problem. Our knowledge on this sub- 
ject is insufficient, and in the majority of cases 
we are unable to trace mental deficiency in the 
children to any known parental or hereditary cause. 

Epileptics. Epilepsy ought to be regarded as 
an absolute bar to marriage, both in the interests 
of the children that may be born affected with the 
disease, and in the interests of the healthy partner 
of the union. At the present time the risks are 
very insufficiently understood, and it is quite 
common for persons who have suffered from 
epileptic fits to marry. 

Alcoholism. The abuse of alcohol is the 
principal cause of child neglect and the source of 
widespread misery in families, but in addition to 
this the children of excessive drinkers are liable 
to be weakly at birth or to develop weakness of 
mind or body in later life. Unfortunately, the 
tendency frequently does not show itself till after 
marriage, so that preventive measures are not 
easy. Parents of marriageable children can no 
doubt do something by warning and advice. Every- 
thing should be done to encourage temperance. 
Possibly the Temperance cause has been injured 
in the past by the intemperate language of some 
of its advocates. A man who likes a glass of beer 
with his dinner is not exactly a criminal, and if 
our people only drank at meal times we should 
be a sober nation. It is the abuse of alcohol, not 

12 



Healthy Parents 

its use, that does the harm, but it must be admitted 
that many people have the most erroneous ideas as 
to what is meant by moderation. The approximate 
safe limit has been laid down as one ounce of 
alcohol per day for a man doing a reasonable day's 
work, and this amount would be contained in less 
than a pint of beer. In any case, for a healthy 
person alcohol is a luxury and not a necessity, 
so that it often comes to be a question as to whether 
" father's beer " makes the rest of the family go 
short of necessaries. 

The common saying that you cannot make 
people sober by Act of Parliament has been to a 
large extent disproved. Lord D'Abernon, the 
Chairman of the Liquor Control Board, has shown 
that the curtailment of facilities for drinking has 
had a most marked effect. Not only has there 
been a huge reduction in convictions for drunken- 
ness, attempted suicides, and cases of delirium 
tremens, but the statistics derived from certificates 
of death show a remarkable decline in the deaths 
caused by alcoholism. Thus in England and 
Wales in 1913 there were 1,831 deaths from alcohol- 
ism, in 1917 only 580 ; in 1913 there were 1,226 
infants suffocated by overlying, in 1917 only 
704 ; and in 1913 there were 3,880 deaths certified 
from cirrhosis of the liver, in 1917 only 2,283. An 
important point about these statistics is that they 
come from an independent source. They are com- 
piled by the Registrar-General from information 
supplied by all the doctors and coroners in the 
country, so that the gibe that statistics can be 

13 



Infant and Young Child 

manipulated to prove anything does not apply 
in this case. It is to be hoped, for the sake of 
the race, that we shall never return to pre-War 
facilities for drinking. Education, however, must 
always be the most powerful factor in promoting 
temperance. The education of a great part of 
the children of the country has hitherto ended 
at 13, the age when the education of the children 
of the middle classes begins in earnest. When 
education has been levelled up by the raising of 
the school age to 15 and the continuation of half- 
time education to 18, the rising generation will 
want more intellectual recreation than at present, 
and the amusement of standing at a bar drinking 
will become less popular. One would like to see 
the " stand-up " drinking bars replaced as far 
as possible by places where, to quote Lord D'Aber- 
non, " facilities for obtaining attractive, well- 
cooked food and refreshment in pleasant surround- 
ings " are provided. 

Venereal diseases. If the War has had the 
effect of reducing the damage done to child wel- 
fare and family life by the abuse of alcohol, the 
opposite must be said as to the ravages of the 
venereal diseases. The danger from this source 
is very great, and needs to be appreciated by every 
member of the community. The National Council 
for Combating Venereal Diseases is doing a great 
work in making the danger known. The two 
diseases which we have to fight are gonorrhoea and 
syphilis, and both have disastrous effects on child 
life. 



Healthy Parents 

Gonorrhoea, if not treated promptly and effi- 
ciently, is liable to become chronic and cause in- 
flammation of the bladder and kidney, stricture 
of the urethra, and inflammation of the generative 
organs, leading to sterility in the male. If the 
man marries without proper treatment and before 
he is cured, he may infect his wife years after he 
contracted the disease himself, with the most 
terrible results. The disease in the woman may 
lead to all sorts of complications. A large pro- 
portion of the operations which have to be per- 
formed in women's hospitals are the result of 
neglected gonorrhoea, and it is one of the com- 
monest causes of sterility in women. Not only 
does gonorrhoea prevent the birth of children : it 
is also responsible for one of the commonest causes 
of blindness. If the mother suffers from a gonor- 
rhceal discharge at the time of childbirth the 
baby's eyes may become infected, and severe in- 
flammation, known as gonorrhceal ophthalmia or 
ophthalmia of the newly born, may be set up. 
It is estimated that more than one-third of the 
inmates of institutions for the blind are admitted 
there from this cause. 

Syphilis is still more appalling in its effects 
than gonorrhoea if not properly treated, but, for- 
tunately, great advances in the treatment of this 
disease have been made of recent years. Prompt 
treatment is the great thing. A painless sore or 
ulcer at the point of infection is the first sign of 
the disease, and then is the time for getting treat- 
ment. Time is often lost by the patient consulting 

15 



Infant and Young Child 

a quack. There is no excuse for this now, as 
clinics have been established all over the country 
where the best modern treatment for venereal 
diseases is given without charge and under con- 
ditions of secrecy. Two cases of treatment by 
quacks have been recently brought to my notice 
In one case the man had been under treatment 
for months and was in a shocking condition when 
induced by a friend to come to the clinic, and as 
the result of the delay his cure has been rendered 
problematical or at best delayed for years. In 
the other case the patient had been under treat- 
ment by a quack for eight months, and had con- 
sumed eighty bottles of medicine for the purpose 
of curing a venereal disease which had no 
existence ! 

Treatment of these diseases by quacks is now 
forbidden by law, but it still goes on, and is diffi- 
cult to stop, for the victims, not unnaturally, are 
unwilling to face the publicity of giving evidence 
in a prosecution. 

If the disease is not properly treated, the first 
sore is followed by the second stage, with ulcers 
in the mouth and throat and elsewhere, skin 
eruptions, loss of .hair, etc. This is followed by 
the third stage, which may attack any organ of 
the body, eating away the palate or bones and 
causing large ulcers of the skin. The blood-vessels 
may be affected, causing aneurysm and early 
apoplexy. The nervous system may be affected, 
leading to the diseases known as locomotor ataxy 
and general paralysis of the insane. If a man 

16 



Healthy Parents 

marries before he is cured he may give the disease, 
with possibly these sequelae, to his wife. 

But that is not all. The most terrible thing 
about the disease, from the point of view of this 
book, is the effect on the children if the man or 
woman who has had syphilis marries before being 
thoroughly cured. 

The usual history is for the wife to have one 
miscarriage after another and then one diseased 
child after another. Many thousands of children 
die before they are born owing to parental syphilis, 
many thousands more die. in the first year of life, 
or survive to become blind, deaf, or paralysed, or 
to grow up mentally defective. In the interests 
of childhood and family life it behoves us to do 
all we can to stamp out venereal diseases. What 
can we do ? On two points all are agreed. Firstly, 
that every person who becomes infected with 
syphilis or gonorrhoea should at once get the special 
treatment required and continue the treatment as 
long as his doctor says it is necessary. Secondly, 
that the man who marries before the medical 
expert who has treated him has pronounced that 
he is no longer infectious and may safely marry 
is a criminal of the worst kind. This is not a case 
for taking risks and gambling with the health of 
the prospective wife or the children that may be. 

As to other points, there is not the same general 
agreement. A great controversy rages as to whether 
the prevention of the disease should be tackled 
simply by a moral and educational campaign, or 
whether it is justifiable to reduce the risk of 
c 17 



Infant and Young Child 

infection by the distribution to those who insist 
upon being immoral of prophylactic outfits. Ex- 
perience in the Army has shown that there the 
use of prophylactic outfits has greatly reduced the 
prevalence of venereal diseases. Those who oppose 
the issue of outfits do so on the grounds that it 
is a form of State regulation of vice, that it is 
wrong to try to make immorality safe, and that 
the fear of contracting venereal diseases is a valu- 
able stimulus to morality. There would be more 
force in the argument that the punishment fits the 
crime if the punishment were limited to the criminal, 
and if it were not for the fact that a very large 
percentage of the sufferers from these diseases are 
women and children who have acquired them 
innocently from the wrongdoers. Some think there 
is not much to be said in favour of a morality which 
is simply dependent on the fear of consequences ; 
but on the other hand the fear of punishment is a 
recognised part of our civil code. Some who oppose 
the issue of outfits are in favour of the establish- 
ment of preventive-treatment centres, where, by 
means of antiseptic ablutions, the risk of contract- 
ing venereal disease may be diminished for those 
who have exposed themselves to the risk of in- 
fection. 

However much opinions may differ with regard 
to preventive methods, all are agreed that moral 
and educational propaganda work is of the highest 
importance. If we could abolish prostitution and 
promiscuous sexual intercourse, venereal diseases 
would rapidly disappear. In the first place, the 

18 



Healthy Parents 

medical profession must state with no uncertain 
voice that continence is consistent with perfect 
health, and that no one who abstains from sexual 
intercourse will suffer in health in the slightest 
degree by so doing. We also need a higher ideal 
of parenthood and family life. Every Jewish 
father gives counsel to his son at puberty and 
before marriage on sexual matters. The Jewish 
mother does the same by her daughter. With us, 
on the other hand, a boy is often dependent on 
older youths for information on sexual matters, 
and the sound rule, maxima debetur puero reverentia, 
is not always observed by the man of the world. 
The first step in immorality may be taken by a 
youth from the desire to be thought manly, or 
from curiosity, or from a lurking fear that he 
may be unable to perform the sexual function, 
or as the result of bad advice from an elder that 
the desire for sexual intercourse is natural and 
that it is better for his health to indulge the desire. 
If the boy got information from his father at the 
right time he would be forewarned and forearmed. 
The Gentile parent should emulate the Jewish 
parent in this matter. 

We are not, however, going to abolish immorality 
and venereal diseases by cold reason. Benjamin 
Kidd, in " The Science of Power/' points out a 
more excellent way. We must act on the emotions 
of the ideal in the young. Kidd asserts that the 
average man is not prevented from becoming a 
swindler or a thief by the fact that honesty is the 
best policy, but by the fact that life would not 

19 



Infant and Young Child 

be worth living for him if he lost his self-esteem 
according to the code in which he had been brought 
up ; and that nations will not give up war " because 
it doesn't pay/' but only when the barbarism of 
war is felt to be a disgrace by the conscience of 
humanity. Similarly, we shall not abolish prosti- 
tution and immorality because they don't pay, 
but only when the ideals of motherhood and family 
life have been raised. These ideals have undoubt- 
edly been lowered during the industrial revolution 
and urbanisation of the nineteenth century. Per- 
haps the twentieth century will rediscover the 
mother. The Jews have always scored by the 
fact that a reverence for motherhood, family life, 
and education is a definite part of their religion. 
One feels also that the Protestant religions may 
have lost much incidentally by discarding the 
Madonna. The low infant mortality in the poor 
country districts of Ireland and the better mother- 
ing of children in the slums of our large cities by 
Italians, Spaniards, and Poles than by the native 
women are illustrations. If to sensible instruction 
of the young in sexual matters there could be 
added a higher ideal of the sanctity of motherhood, 
would not the tragedy of the condemnation of a 
potential mother to the degraded life of a prostitute 
be brought into more startling relief ? 

Tuberculosis. Tuberculosis is in a different 
position from syphilis because it may be said with 
truth that a baby born infected with tuberculosis 
is so rare as to be a freak. In the case even of 
cows, which go on bearing calves while markedly 

20 



Healthy Parents 

tuberculous, the birth of a calf actually infected 
is a very rare event, and is only possible when the 
womb is tuberculous or the disease is so advanced 
that tubercle bacilli are circulating in the blood. 
Under these latter circumstances the human mother 
would not give birth to a living child. Although 
infection before birth is almost impossible, in- 
fection after birth is, on the other hand, very easy 
and very common if one of the parents has tuber- 
culosis of the lungs and expectorates living tubercle 
bacilli. What we have to guard against, there- 
fore, is infection after birth. We cannot lay down 
any rule as regards the mysterious predisposition 
to tuberculosis. There is no means of testing the 
predisposition except by seeing how easily the 
individual catches the disease. This is being wise 
after the event. The predisposition may run in 
families, and may be acquired from environment. 
The liability to or immunity from tuberculosis is, 
therefore, for most of us an unknown quantity, 
unless we can say that we have been exposed to 
massive doses of infection without effect. 

Post-mortem examinations show that most 
people experience slight infections with tubercle 
and overcome them, as a rule, without the presence 
of the disease being suspected during life. When 
marriage is in question we can only consider 
recognisable attacks of the disease which have 
reached a certain stage. For instance, an occa- 
sional attack of pleurisy in an otherwise reason- 
ably robust person, or a tubercular hip-joint or 
knee cured in childhood, could not be considered 

21 



Infant and Young Child 

bars to matrimony. On the other hand, very 
few persons who reach the stage of open tubercu- 
losis of the lung with an expectoration containing 
tubercle bacilli ever lose the tubercle bacilli from 
their sputum, and medical opinion would be agreed 
that such persons ought not to marry. As with 
venereal diseases, so with tuberculosis, there is no 
excuse for ignorance. There are free tuberculosis 
dispensaries all over the country, and any person 
affected with this disease can obtain a reliable 
expert opinion as to whether he or she is justified 
in marrying. 

In the large majority of cases the danger to the 
children arises from one or the other of the parents 
becoming tuberculous after marriage. In such 
cases the danger can be greatly lessened if the 
tuberculous parent is able to carry out the instruc- 
tions which he will receive from the Tuberculosis 
Dispensary or during his residence at a sanatorium 
as to occupying a separate bedroom, adopting an 
open-air regime, and being careful about the 
destruction of his infectious expectoration. 

We have to recognise, however, that we have 
only touched the fringe of this vast problem as 
yet. Sanatoria have failed because we have not 
adequately supported the family of the consump- 
tive, and because we have only just begun to 
realise that the labour of the consumptive cannot 
compete with healthy labour and must always 
be subsidised. The recognition of these two facts 
has led to the establishment of Papworth Colony, 
in Cambridgeshire The problem is a national 

22 



Healthy Parents 

one : trades which pay a heavy toll to tubercu- 
losis are carried on for the country as a whole, 
and not only for the benefit of the district where 
they are established. The State should there- 
fore establish colonies similar to that at Pap- 
worth, with model factories and workshops, to 
which consumptives and their families can be 
sent by local authorities, and in which, owing to 
the attractive conditions, they will be glad to 
stay as long as the interests of their health re- 
quire. The subsidisation of the labour of con- 
sumptives must be regarded as the payment made 
by the community to guard itself from infection, 
and the adequate maintenance of the children 
of consumptives ought soon to show its effect 
in the lessened prevalence of the disease. At pre- 
sent the children of a consumptive breadwinner 
are generally exposed to a double risk : they have 
the infection in the home, and they are not suffi- 
ciently fed to enable them to resist it. 

Certificate of fitness for marriage. As re- 
gards the general question, I believe it is usual 
in France for the parents of the prospective bride 
and bridegroom to make careful inquiries with 
regard to the health record of the parties to the 
proposed alliance. Medical certificates before mar- 
riage have been advocated, but a single examina- 
tion by a strange doctor might prove illusory. A 
syphilitic, for example, might be examined at a 
time when he was free from symptoms and passed 
as safe when he was not safe ; or, again, the examinee 
might fail to mention that he had suffered from 

23 



Infant and Young Child 

epileptic fits. A reliable certificate could only be 
given by an examiner who knew the health record 
and from whom nothing was concealed. The value 
of the certificate would therefore largely depend 
on the truthfulness of the examinee, just as in 
the case of an examination for life insurance. A 
nice point would arise as to how far the man would 
be in honour bound to mention the fact that he 
had suffered from syphilis, even if the doctor who 
treated him was satisfied that he could safely 
marry. 

Of course, in order to secure healthy parents 
we really ought to begin with their parents, but 
we have to take the prospective parents of the 
present day as we find them, and do our best to 
limit the effect of influences such as have been 
mentioned. In the course of time, as social con- 
ditions and the Public Health Service in the broadest 
sense improve, new generations of parents will 
grow up better fitted than those of the present day 
to hand on the torch of civilisation. 



CHAPTER II 
Healthy Homes 

THE home is not merely the roof or shelter under 
which the members of a family eat or sleep. It 
should be a happy centre of life where every mem- 
ber of the family can read, work, play, or rest in 
comfort, and it has so important a bearing upon 
the welfare of the infant and the young child that, 
although it forms the subject of one of the books 
in this series,* I must devote to it a short 
chapter. 

Owing to the stoppage of building operations 
during the War there is a great scarcity of houses 
and much overcrowding. Many of the existing 
houses are unsatisfactory, and thousands of houses 
of a higher standard are needed. The minimum 
requirements of the healthy home may be 
summarised as follows : 

1. Every room in the house should be well 

lighted and properly ventilated. 

2. There should be sufficient sleeping accom- 

modation for each member of the family 
without overcrowding and with due regard 
to decency. 

* " Housing and Public Health," by John Robertson, C.M.G., 
O.B.E., M.D. 1919. 



Infant and Young Child 

3. The living-room, which may also be the 

kitchen, must be sufficiently large to 
allow children and adults to sit and read 
in comfort. 

4. There should be a bathroom with hot and 

cold water, and a sink with hot and cold 
water inside the house; also facilities 
for washing and drying clothes. 

5. It is also necessary for the healthy home 

to have a cool place for food storage, 
with direct ventilation from the outside 
air. 

6. There should be a water-closet for the use 

of each family and a movable receptacle 
for house refuse. 

In addition to this, every house should have 
at its door a satisfactory open space in which 
children can play without having to cross main 
roads. 

To any ordinary person glancing at these re- 
quirements they would seem the absolute minimum, 
though there might possibly be a difference of 
opinion as to whether a bath is an amenity or a 
necessity. Yet, if we consider these requirements 
in detail, we shall find that in some of our big 
industrial centres, as well as in many rural dis- 
tricts of England, there are parents trying to 
bring up healthy families in houses which are very 
far from fulfilling these demands. 

Women architects. Architects and builders 
are, of course, in one sense of the word the " build- 

26 



Healthy Homes 

ing experts " when it is a question of site, eleva- 
tion, and actual planning of a house, but there 
is no doubt that the real " housing expert " is 
the woman who has to run the house. She is 
the person who really knows what is wanted to 
make a house convenient and fit to live in. So 
far, she has not been sufficiently considered by 
the builders. Why should we not have women 
architects ? The two objections one used to hear 
before the War were that women were not good 
at going up ladders, and could not use strong 
enough language to the builder's foreman. The 
nimbleness of the women window-cleaners has 
disproved the former statement, and perhaps the 
latter was a libel. 

Cleaning, cooking, scrubbing, and keeping home 
and children clean and respectable are very pleas- 
ant jobs in their way, but there are limits to a 
woman's strength, and there are only twenty-four 
hours in the day. It is not sufficiently realised 
what a very hard life the woman has who brings 
up a large family in a big town on small means, 
and there is no need for housework to be made 
unnecessary drudgery. 

The hot -water supply. It is, for instance, 
practically impossible to keep a house and family 
clean and healthy, especially in a big city, without 
a proper hot-water supply. This point was very 
strongly insisted upon in paragraph 13 of the 
first interim report by the Women's Housing Sub- 
Committee of the Ministry of Reconstruction Ad- 
visory Council. I quote it in its entirety : 

27 



Infant and Young Child 

" It cannot be too strongly emphasised that a 
regular and efficient water supply is a sine qua non 
from the point of view both of personal cleanliness 
and of labour saving. The extra time, trouble, and 
expense involved when water must be heated in kettles 
and carried to the bath, wash tub, or sink is a serious 
addition to the housewife's burden. A great part of 
the everyday work of the house, as well as the laundry 
work, is doubled by the lack of a proper supply of 
hot water. The extra strain on the woman's strength, 
coupled with the waste of time, leaves her without 
either the opportunity or energy to attend to other 
household tasks or to secure any form of recreation 
for herself." 

Many people do not realise that there are still 
tens of thousands of homes in this country with- 
out a hot-water supply, and many groups of houses 
where the only water supply is a standpipe in the 
yard. The additional work for the mother in- 
volved in the case of houses where a convenient 
water supply does not exist and where there is 
a big family to cater for can only be realised by 
those who understand what it means for one 
woman to undertake the entire care of a house and 
family. 

Surely, when we are considering the well-being 
and health of the children, it is important to see 
that the mother should have some little leisure 
in which to read and keep abreast of the times. 
If she has not, she will soon find that the children, 
as they grow up, will cease to consult her or con- 
sider her opinion, and " mother" gradually becomes 

28 



Healthy Homes 

for them the household drudge, the provider of 
the food, and in some cases (and who can wonder 
at it ?) the ready fault-finder and scolder of the 
young people who come heedlessly rushing into 
the house from school or workshop, so engrossed 
with their friends or arrangements for amusements 
that they scarcely notice the weary, hard-worked 
woman who is the " home-maker " for them, 
except to grumble at her if the meals are late or 
the house untidy. 

The larder. One thing very often neglected by 
the builders of small houses is the provision of any 
sort of decent larder. There are countless homes in 
this country where the only place for the storage of 
food is either the cellar stairhead very often quite 
a warm place or a small stone table in part of 
a small, dark coal cellar, which is unprotected 
from dust and really not possible to use ; and the 
housewife with the very best intentions cannot 
store such things as milk and meat in hot weather 
without the milk going sour or the meat becoming 
maggoty. 

Indeed, when one considers the difficulties and 
inconveniences which have to be faced by the 
ordinary town mother, one is not surprised at the 
high infantile death-rate, but is rather amazed at 
what goodwill has accomplished in the face of 
apparently insurmountable difficulties. 

Ventilation. It is important for the healthy 
home that it should have as much sunlight and 
fresh air as possible, and that the windows should 
open freely. If the windows are double sashed, 

29 



Infant and Young Child 

the two portions should be equal, so that half the 
window space is openable at one time, and if the 
casement window is adopted it is not sufficient 
that only one-third of the window space is made 
openable, as is frequently the case. No house can 
be considered healthy which cannot be flushed with 
fresh air in a few minutes. One would like to see 
all curtains and lace frills around windows abol- 
ished. They lessen the amount of fresh air and 
sunlight available, and the air, when it does pene- 
trate fold after fold of stuffy lace or material, is 
dusty and musty, and has lost much of its original 
freshness. Of course, in the case of some of the 
windows some screening is necessary for privacy, 
but that is no justification for blocking up all the 
windows for the sake of uniformity. In some 
towns, in addition to the ordinary supply of blinds 
and curtains, it is fashionable to have an abomina- 
tion known as a sham blind which permanently 
cuts off a third or a quarter of our not too plentiful 
sunlight. An undressed window seems to be con- 
sidered indecent ! Venetian blinds may be all 
right for the clear, clean air of Venice, but they 
are dust and dirt traps in an industrial town. 
Here, again, much of the lighting effect of the 
window is lost because the housewife lets the blind 
half or two-thirds way down the upper sash, accord- 
ing to the custom of the town. 

Aspect of the kitchen. The kitchen or living- 
room is the place where the mother and younger 
ones of a family spend most of their time. It 
seems a pity that this room is not always given 

30 



Healthy Homes 

the best aspect and position in the house. The 
parlour is often little used except on state occa- 
sions and perhaps on Sundays, but nevertheless is 
generally considered a necessity by the poorest 
family, and may be given the sunny aspect. We 
are too much tied up by conventions. If a street 
runs east and west and the northern houses have 
living-rooms with a southern aspect, for the sake 
of symmetry the builder gives the living-rooms 
of the southern houses a northern aspect. Why 
shouldn't he reverse the plan for the southern 
houses, so as to give all the living-rooms a southern 
aspect ? Again, why should a house have a back ? 
Why not two fronts ? A back was necessary when 
you had an offensive privy midden as a convenience, 
but a dustbin can be hidden anywhere without 
spoiling either of the fronts. It has been sug- 
gested that living-room and parlour should form 
one large room which could be divided at need by 
folding doors, so that, as a rule, the warmth and 
comfort of the kitchen can penetrate the parlour, 
and the kitchen in return be lighted and brightened 
by the parlour windows. Whether this suggestion 
be approved or not, the kitchen-living-room in the 
typically healthy home should be the largest, 
best-lighted, and pleasantest room in the house, 
where everyone in the family can, after the day's 
work is done, sit, read, rest, or play in warmth 
and comfort. 

Not too many doors. Warmth and comfort 
can never be obtained in a room which has four 
or five doors in it or into which the house-door 

3* 



Infant and Young Child 

opens direct. It is quite usual in Sheffield houses 
for the outside door to open direct into the living- 
room. A small living-room often has four doors 
opening into it a door leading to the street, a 
door leading upstairs, a door leading to the coal 
cellar, and a door leading to the scullery, which 
may in turn have an outside door leading into the 
yard. In such a room there is not much comfort 
or pleasure for anyone sitting in front of the fire, 
and there is practically no wall space for a dresser 
or other necessary article of kitchen furniture. 
The writer has had his meals for the last two years 
in a kitchen with a door opening direct into the 
yard and three other doors leading to the scul- 
lery, cellar and front door respectively, and he 
now thoroughly understands the discomfort caused 
by a superfluity of doors in a room, and also the 
need for the outside door to open into a lobby 
or passage or, at any rate, into the scullery, and 
not directly into the kitchen. 

Another debatable point is as to whether there 
is any necessity for any small house to have two 
house-doors. The front house-door is rarely used, 
and only increases draught, dust, and discomfort. 
I once stayed at the seaside in one of a row of 
very pleasant two-storeyed houses, each of which 
had only one door. On one side of the house were 
windows only, looking on to the street ; on the 
other side was the door, leading through a little 
garden to another street. 

The sink. Opinions vary as to whether there 
should be a sink in the kitchen-living-room. It 

32 



Healthy Homes 

is certainly much more comfortable and less labour 
for the housewife to wash up after meals in a warm 
kitchen than to have to carry the things through 
to a cold scullery and bring them back to the 
kitchen dresser. If the sink is in the living-room 
it will always be kept clean. Crede experto. 

Carpets. Floors completely covered with car- 
pets are dirty, dusty, and unhealthy. Linoleum 
is much better, and small rugs, which can easily 
be taken out and beaten, can be added in the case 
of bedrooms if thought necessary. Stair-carpets 
are a great source of dust and labour. The air in 
the staircase will be much purer and much labour 
will be saved if the treads are covered with linoleum 
with rubber nosing. 

Bath and bathroom. One often hears dis- 
cussions as to whether a bath should be provided 
in the ordinary cottage home. Many stories are 
told about the bath being used for storing coal, 
etc., but it is not generally understood that many 
of the modern workmen's houses with baths have 
no bathroom. There is no privacy for the would- 
be bather. The bath is more often than not in 
the scullery a place which is in constant use in 
a family of any size, where, for example, all the 
washing-up is done after meals and in many houses 
the back door opens direct into the scullery where 
the bath is fixed. Again, many of the baths which 
have been installed have no hot-water supply ; 
others have even no waste-pipe and require not 
only to be filled from a kettle, but also to be emptied 
by means of a ladle or a siphon arrangement. 

D 33 



Infant and Young Child 

Should we often take a bath if we had to ladle out 
the water afterwards ? And yet a bath and a 
bathroom may be considered almost a necessity of 
life. If anyone doubts it, let him do some really 
dirty work, such as putting in and stacking a load 
or two of coal in the coalhouse, and then try to 
get clean in the water contained in the ordinary 
hand-basin. Then let him consider what must 
be the life of the wife of a coalminer or chimney- 
sweep who has no bathroom and no hot-water 
supply laid on in her house. It is very hard to 
keep clean, and especially hard to keep children 
clean, in a big smoky city, but it is ten times 
harder to do this without a bath and proper washing 
accommodation. 

It is a good plan to have the hot-water cylinder 
placed in a room other than the kitchen, so that 
it may heat an otherwise unwarmed part of the 
house instead of overheating the kitchen. A good 
place for it is the bathroom. 

Facilities for drying. In our climate great dis- 
comfort is caused if there is no arrangement for 
drying clothes, especially in the case of a large 
family. A rack, worked by pulleys, should be 
fixed to the kitchen ceiling for this purpose. 

Self-contained cottages or flats. With re- 
gard to the preference most people have for self- 
contained cottages rather than the flat system, 
I do not see how a flat, unless it be on the 
ground floor or have a yard on its own level, can 
be a healthy home for babies and little children. 
The mother cannot be always helping very small 

34 



Healthy Homes 

children up and down stairs. I have always 
thought the want of fresh air and sunlight from 
this cause had something to do with the prevalence 
of rickets in Glasgow. The epoch-making dis- 
covery that a baby can be put outside in its pram 
instead of being wheeled about is of no use to 
the mother unless she can overlook the baby in 
the yard while she is at work in the living-room. 

It is perhaps Utopian to wish that every home 
might have a garden of its own, however small. 
There is no doubt that such an ideal, if realised, 
would go far to make our homes more healthy. 

One might almost say that a garden is more 
necessary than a parlour, serving, as it does, in 
turn as a nursery, drying-room, workshop, play- 
ground, and open-air dining-room. 

If the minimum requirements of the healthy 
home summarised at the beginning of this chapter 
are fulfilled and the Sanitary Authority removes 
the refuse regularly and scavenges the streets 
efficiently, it rests with the housewife to see that 
the house becomes a healthy home by keeping it 
clean and by opening the windows to let in fresh 
air. It must never be forgotten that it is the 
woman who makes the home. Given an untidy 
dirty housewife, the most modern and best-fitted 
house in the world would be nothing but an un- 
healthy home, while on the other hand some badly 
constructed, poorly ventilated, inconvenient back- 
to-back houses have been made happy, healthy 
homes by the devoted work of women. 

Landlord and tenant. There is another point 

35 



Infant and Young Child 

of importance. Bad tenants make bad land- 
lords, and bad landlords make bad tenants. The 
sacrifices of the War will have been in vain if 
we have not got a step farther towards realising 
the essential brotherhood of man. We want a 
better co-operation between employer and em- 
ployed, but for the sake of getting better homes 
we undoubtedly want a better feeling between 
landlord and tenant. Miss Octavia Hill has shown 
what can be done by a more friendly system of 
rent collection by women who take an interest 
in the welfare of the tenants and make it their 
business to help them when a difficulty arises, 
and at the same time see that necessary repairs 
have prompt attention. A visit to the Walworth 
estate of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners will con- 
vince anyone of the value of this system. It may 
be necessary, also, in the case of incorrigible tenants, 
to adopt the suggestion of Mr. John Mann, junior, 
secretary of the Glasgow Workmen's Dwellings 
Company (who is a warm advocate of Miss Hill's 
system), and leave them to be housed by the Local 
Authority in the simplest accommodation possible, 
with the aim of getting them drilled into better 
ways by strict supervision. 

It is not possible to lay down rules for the housing 
of all families, but it may be asserted without fear 
of contradiction that the breadwinner should be 
ready to spend as much as he can possibly afford 
of his earnings (we know that this is not the case 
at present) on his house rent, and that a home is 
healthier and easier to manage, and to keep respect- 

36 



Healthy Homes 

able and clean, the farther it is from great works 
and from the smoke and grime of the centres of 
industrial life ; and, further, that every home 
worthy of the name should contain the maximum 
of labour-saving appliances that can be devised 
for the help of the housewife, so that she may have 
time to be a real home-maker and friend to her own 
family. 

We have many reasons to be dissatisfied with 
the present housing conditions. The final report 
of the Women's Housing Sub-Committee of the 
Ministry of Reconstruction Advisory Council should 
be carefully studied by all architects and members 
of Housing Committees. 



37 



CHAPTER III 
The Mother 

FOR the solution of this problem of child welfare 
we must look to the mother. We need to educate 
and train the mothers in housecraft, and to put 
at their disposal all the knowledge we possess about 
infants and children. We need to give them all 
facilities for doing their work, but, above all, we 
need the raw material, women inspired by the 
altruistic, self-sacrificing ideals of motherhood, 
shining examples of which are to be found in every 
modern slum among women of all races and all creeds. 
Ideals of motherhood. Everyone who goes 
deeply into this question comes to the same con- 
clusion, and decides that " the mother's the thing." 
Let me quote from Mr. John Burns, when, as 
President of the Local Government Board, he 
delivered his memorable address to the National 
Conference on Infantile Mortality in 1906 : 

" First, concentrate on the mother. What the 
mother is, the children are. The stream is no purer 
than its source. Let us glorify, dignify, and purify 
motherhood by every means in our power. Let us 
see to the nursing child in every way ; nourish the 
mother, you feed the child. In every aspect of this 
subject let us have good mothering ; that is at the 
bottom of happy, healthy children. . . . Milk depots 

38 



The Mother 

are good, but not good enough if they supersede or 
discourage breast-feeding. Creches may be all very 
well here and there. Personally, I am against them, 
because I believe that creches stimulate the growth 
and increase of married women's labour." 

Sir George Newman, in his book on " Infant 
Mortality," published in 1906, after discussing the 
causes of infant mortality, proceeds as follows : 

" This book will have been written in vain if it 
does not lay the emphasis of this problem upon the 
vital importance to the nation of its motherhood. 
Wherever we turn, and to whatever issue, in this 
question of infant mortality, we are faced with one 
all-pervading primary need the need of a high stand- 
ard of physical motherhood. Infant mortality in the 
early weeks of life is evidently due in large measure 
to the physical conditions of the mother, leading to 
prematurity and debility of the infant ; and in the 
later months of the first year infant mortality appears 
to be due to unsatisfactory feeding of the infant. But 
from either point of view it becomes clear that the 
problem of infant mortality is not one of sanitation 
alone, or housing, or indeed of poverty as such, but 
is mainly a question of motherhood. No doubt external 
conditions, as those named, are influencing maternity, 
but they are, in the main, affecting the mother, and 
not the child. They exert their influence upon the 
infant indirectly through the mother. Improved sani- 
tation, better housing, cheap and good food, domestic 
education, a healthy life of body and mind these are 
the conditions which lead to efficient motherhood from 
the point of view of child-bearing. They exert but 
an indirect effect on the child itself, who depends for 

39 



Infant and Young Child 

its life in the first twelve months, not upon the State 
or the municipality, nor yet upon this or that system 
of creche or milk-feeding, but upon the health, the 
intelligence, the devotion and maternal instinct of 
the mother. And if we would solve the great problem 
of infant mortality, it would appear that we must 
first obtain a higher standard of physical motherhood. 
" Without a moment's hesitation, I place this need 
as the first requirement. Other things, as we have 
seen, are important, but this is the chief thing. And, 
therefore, in the consideration of any measures for 
reducing the infant mortality, we must first attempt 
to solve the problem through the mother." 

Anyone who studies descriptions of the social 
conditions in our towns and the history of child 
labour during the nineteenth century cannot be 
surprised at the lowering of the ideals of mother- 
hood and family life. Rather will he wonder that 
anything is left of those ideals. Sir George New- 
man, in the book already quoted, gives a mass of 
evidence as to the disastrous consequences to 
child-life of the conditions in our towns, and con- 
cludes his chapter on " Domestic and Social Con- 
ditions " with the following words : 

" It is clear that it is not external environment which 
only, or in fact mainly, affects the problem under con- 
sideration. During the last half-century external en- 
vironment has enormously improved, and the advance 
has never been greater than in the last twenty-five 
years.* Yet infant mortality remains as grave a 
problem as ever. And we shall not, perhaps, be far 

* " Report of Interdepartmental Committee on Physical Dete- 
rioration," vol. i., pp. 14-15. 

40 



The Mother 

from the mark if, in judging of the evil effects of bad 
housing and of poor social conditions, we give chief 
place to the ' laziness, want of thrift, ignorance of 
household management, and particularly of the choice 
and preparation of food, filth, indifference to parental 
obligation, and drunkenness ' which ' largely infect 
adults of both sexes, and press with terrible severity upon 
their children.' * ' The people perish/ it has been 
truly said, ' for lack of knowledge.' " 

The following quotation from Sir George New- 
man's next chapter gives us a gleam of hope : 

" The incidence of a high infant mortality upon poor 
districts is, as we have seen, almost a universal experi- 
ence wherever the conditions exist. The overcrowded 
and poverty-stricken districts of London, the dense 
populations on the banks of the Tyne, or in the huge 
manufacturing towns of the North, Glasgow, Dundee, 
Dublin, the teeming tenements of New York or Chicago 
they all tell the same story with one remarkable 
exception, namely, that where by race or custom it is 
the practice to feed infants by the breast, the infant- 
mortality rate drops, even though the environment 
be highly insanitary. There is the instance of the low 
infant death-rates obtaining among Jews, Italians, 
Scotch, and Irish, when these races continue, even under 
adverse circumstances, to feed their infants by the 
breast." 

There can be no doubt whatever that the pre- 
servation of the ideals of motherhood which create 
the determination to breast-feed the baby is the 

* " Report of Interdepartmental Committee on Physical Dete- 
rioration," vol. i., p. 15. 

4* 



Infant and Young Child 

one most important factor in keeping down mor- 
tality during the first year of life. Sir George 
Newman gives conclusive evidence to show that 
the countries where the practice is observed show 
the lowest infant-mortality rates, that times of 
trade depression which cause the women to stop 
at home and tend and suckle their infants lower 
the infant mortality, and that it is the universal 
experience of Medical Officers of Health that the 
death-rate among bottle-fed babies is many times 
greater than among breast-fed babies. 

Mr. G. R. Sims, in his book " The Black Stain," 
shows that the mothering of the children in poor 
districts of our great cities is carried out more 
successfully by Jews, Italians, and other aliens 
than by the native population. It may be that 
the aliens in these cases are not always habitual, 
dwellers in towns. The Italians are, I believe, 
often peasants from the country districts of Italy, 
so it may be assumed that social heredity, to use 
Benjamin Kidd's phrase, has not had time to kill 
the national traditions of motherhood. 

Motherhood as affected by race and religion. 
Sir George Newman quotes from some evi- 
dence collected by Dr. Farr about fifty years 
ago which goes to show that in Scotland, Norway, 
and Sweden, where breast-feeding was the rule, 
the infant mortality was much lower than in 
Austria, France, and Russia, where this practice 
was neglected. England is compared unfavour- 
ably with Scotland in this respect. 

It may be said at once that there is no evidence 
42 



The Mother 

that the women of one race have any advantage 
over the women of another in the ability to bear 
and suckle healthy children. Celt, Slav, Latin, 
Teuton, and Semite all start fair in this respect. 
The difference that exists must be ascribed not 
to inborn heredity but to social heredity and the 
customs of the race. It is to be expected, there- 
fore, that social conditions and the influence of 
religion will play a powerful part. 

The Jews. Let us consider first the case of 
the Jews. Mr. Sims, in " The Black Stain/' says : 

" The instinct of family life and the deeply religious 
view of motherhood ensure the Jewish children, even 
in the most crowded slum, the affectionate regard of 
both parents. 

"It is the contrast between the condition of the 
Christian children and the Jewish children inhabiting 
the same area and living under the same housing con- 
ditions that should, if nothing else will, bring this 
problem of the disregard of the value of child life home 
to the Christian conscience. 

" It is a terrible reflection that if the population of 
this country were not chiefly a Christian population, 
the Society which now protects little children from ill- 
treatment and cruel neglect, and has its hands full 
all the year round and in every part of the kingdom, 
would have very little to do." 

The sanctity of motherhood and family life is 
part of the Jews' religion. The fact that wine is 
used weekly in the ceremony of consecrating the 
Sabbath seems to have the effect of making the 
abuse of wine unlikely. There is little drinking 

43 



Infant and Young Child 

among Jewish women, especially before and after 
confinement. If necessary, the father and rest of 
the family will go short so that the nursing mother 
shall not want for sustenance. The expectant 
mother takes great care of herself, and the nurse 
is usually in the house some time before the con- 
finement. The education of the children is a first 
thought and almost part of the religion. The 
standard of morals among Jewesses is high. The 
Jew father has a heart-to-heart talk on sexual 
matters with his boy at puberty and before mar- 
riage ; the Jew mother does the same by her 
girl. The Jewish population in Sheffield is small, 
about 2,500, but what experience we have con- 
firms these statements. Drink is the usual cause 
of overlying, and there has been no case of over- 
lying in a Jewish family in Sheffield, at any rate 
during the last twenty years. The only case 
approaching child neglect I have come across was 
the family of a widower, and was due to the woman 
in charge of the children not looking after them 
properly and failing to keep the house clean. Jew- 
ish children are seldom brought to the Day Nursery. 
One of the few exceptions was the family of a Jew 
whose wife was ill, and the children only came for 
a short time. In another case some children, 
obviously Jewish in appearance, used to be brought, 
but they were the illegitimate children of a Gentile 
mother by a Jewish father. Jewesses seldom give 
birth to illegitimate children, but the standard of 
morals is not so high for the men. Considering the 
small Jew population in Sheffield, the number of 

44 



The Mother 

Jewish boys and girls attending secondary schools 
is remarkable. Jews do not allow their children to 
be street traders. During the last ten years there 
have been on the average over 500 licensed street 
traders in Sheffield. Only once has a Jewish boy 
been licensed, viz. in 1909 ; in this case the father, 
a tailor in New York, was unable to send home 
enough money to maintain his wife and family in 
Sheffield. A few years ago, when the son of 
a Jewish tailor became Senior Wrangler, it was 
not a matter of wonderment to the Jewish com- 
munity. The father, though in humble circum- 
stances, was a cultured scholar. 

Many towns are able to confirm our experience 
in Sheffield. Dr. W. Hall, of Leeds, has produced 
convincing evidence of the superior physique of 
the Jewish children attending the Leeds elementary 
schools as compared with the Gentile children, 
and of the very great care taken by the Jews with 
regard to the dietary of their children. In an 
address delivered at a Health Congress in Leeds 
in 1909 he said : 

" I have placed in your hands statistics which 
show that the children attending our poor district 
Jewish schools are superior in height, weight, and bony 
development to the children attending our good dis- 
trict Gentile schools nay, even to the children attend- 
ing the day schools of Ripon. I believe this to be 
due to the nature of the food supplied. 

" A child suffering from rickets and scurvy may be 
cured by the administration of cod-liver oil and fruit 
juice, but prevention is better than cure, and I believe 

45 



Infant and Young Child 

that the Jews prevent their children suffering from 
rickets and scurvy by the free administration of oil, 
fresh fish, and vegetables, and that our Gentile children 
suffer much from the want of such fresh food. 

" Further, the poor Jewish matron, when pregnant, 
is guarded against alcohol, prolonged outdoor or in- 
door labour, and from insufficient food. It has not 
been customary to pay much regard to these things 
amongst our Gentile poor. Again, 90 per cent, of 
poor Jewish mothers breast-feed their infants ; 80 per 
cent, of poor Gentile mothers do not. The Jewish 
child, then, starts life with a double advantage, pre- 
natal as well as post-natal." 

All reports agree that Jewesses breast-feed their 
children and are not prevented from doing so by 
having to go out to work. 

Dr. Niven, of Manchester, in a Report on Infant 
Mortality, dated April, 1907, seeking to explain 
why the Cheetham district of Manchester during 
the decade 1894-1903 had an average infant- 
mortality rate of 115 per 1,000 births as compared 
with 184 for the whole city, said : 

" There is an extensive poor and crowded quarter 
in this district, which comes close to the centre of the 
city. This quarter is inhabited by Jews. It is the 
custom among these Jews for married women to stay 
at home. The mother is thus protected before and 
after childbirth. There is also practically no drunken- 
ness, and these poor people are in consequence com- 
paratively well-nourished. They are not very clean. 
It is probable, therefore, that the advantage which 
they have secured is due to the care which the mothers 

46 



The Mother 

bestow on their offspring, and to their being able to 
give the breast." 

The following paragraphs are taken from the 
Annual Report for 1907 of Dr. Hope, the Medical 
Officer of Health for Liverpool : 

"It is desirable to add a few words in reference 
to the Jewish community, and for the purpose of 
illustration to take fifty poor some very poor Jewish 
families, taken consecutively. The family earnings 
averaged from los. to 305. per week. The points which 
stand out are, first, that in every instance the children 
are well looked after, all suitably clad, and not one 
ragged or barefooted child seen. The beds were clean, 
and always a cot provided for the baby beside the 
mother's bed. Domestic dirtiness is uncommon, but 
even where it existed all the mothers seemed to realise 
their duty and responsibility to their children, and 
to act upon it. Thriftiness and sobriety were universal ; 
no drunkenness at all. A noticeable feature which 
always impresses the visitor is the attention given 
by the mothers to the children's food. In no single 
instance was the mid-day meal wanting ; moreover, 
it is usually good and wholesome, and prepared in a 
way which the children relish. It must be remembered 
that some of these families were in receipt of relief 
from the Jewish Board of Guardians, but others, 
of course, are fairly comfortably off for that 
class. 

" With regard to the numbers of children born, 
the average number in the family is not large. The 
maximum was ten, and that only in one family ; the 
average is five, but the figures as to the numbers who 
have died compare very favourably indeed with those 

47 



Infant and Young Child 

of the Gentile races in the same social scale. In the 
fifty families, the total number of infants born was 
255, and the number of deaths which have taken 
place amongst the whole number and at various ages 
and by no means all in infancy, was 29 figures which 
speak very favourably." 

Mr. Parr, the Director of the National Society 
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children, states 
that in his experience of nearly twenty years, 
" proceedings against Jews for neglect or cruelty 
have been very rare." 

Can it be doubted that the religion, traditions, 
and social heredity of the Jews make for good 
motherhood, a low infant-mortality rate, and the 
general welfare of children ? It may be that their 
religious traditions have been stimulated by supreme 
necessity in providing for the preservation of their 
race during centuries of persecution. 

The Irish. As long as our records go back, 
Ireland has consistently had a much lower infant- 
mortality rate than either Scotland or England. 
Since 1890 the English rate, which was much 
higher than the Scottish, has come nearer to the 
Scottish, but both are still considerably higher 
than the Irish. The infant-mortality rates in the 
Irish country districts have been remarkable when 
compared with the standards which we have 
hitherto regarded as attainable. They are less 
remarkable now owing to the recent improvement 
in the English rates. 

The following table gives a comparison between 
English and Irish infant-mortality rates during 1916 : 

48 



i - 
53 

e: 



^ o 

M 2 
vo W 

M 

H* O 

O Q 

S3 

i 
i 

< 



o 



g 



ta O 





5 


t^ O M N 


o 




V ' 


N CO 00 vo 


o 




s tj 


O CO O u-> 


O 




5 


CO M M M 


*^ 


OB 


x 


10 


CO 


H 


^ ^ 'S 


CO l>> l> O* 


00 


,-T 


5 "S u 


* * * * 


. 


<! 


^ ^ r^ 


CO H M M 


00 












Cj 


rt 


W) O *f) N 
vo t^ N N 


o. 


*^ 


o 1 


ON ON 00* oo' 


If) 


p 




CO M M N 





fc 


wQ 






i 


1 


c* -1- o> oo 

O M M t>> 


CO 





3 


R & & 8 


s 




|, 3 


a CO t" M 
OO M CO 


JJ 




SpSt^ 


vO O O N 


^ 




14 


CO M M M 


a 




| 


l^. 10 *O ^t" 
"f t *f) vo 


M 




"S 


CO O rj- 00 


CO 




^ 


CO (H M M 


oo 


1 


H 


* t^ M C1 

^*- O M CO 
O co O co 

CO M M M 


X 


M 











lii 


CO M VO I s - 


O^ 






o m 4- d 


o 




S^g 


^* W W CO 


c 

M 




w 

1 


1 1 i 1 


ll 

<u 






M d fl o 


w 






o o a 








* ^ S N 


S 






& ~ In \o 


p 



Infant and Young Child 

The appended lists show the English and Irish 
counties with the lowest infant-mortality rates 
during 1916 : 



Ireland 

Roscommon . 35 

Leitrim . .46 

Mayo v . . 51 

Kerry '. . 51 

Galway * . 53 

Clare . . .55 

Meath . . 56 

Monaghan . 56 

Cavan ,- . 59 
Tipperary (N.R.) 60 

Londonderry . 61 

Fermanagh . 62 

Sligo . . 64 



England and Wales 

Radnorshire . . 53 

Oxfordshire . . 55 

Berkshire . . 58 

Isle of Wight . 59 

Somersetshire . . 60 

Surrey . . .61 

Southampton . . 63 

Wiltshire. . . 63 

West Sussex . . 63 

Shropshire . . 64 

Lincolnshire (parts of 

Holland) . . 64 

Gloucestershire . 66 

Northamptonshire . 66 



In the Report on Ireland prepared for the 
Carnegie Trust, Dr. E. Coey Bigger shows that 
eight counties Roscommon, Leitrim, Wicklow, 
Mayo, Tipperary (N.R.), Cavan, Galway, and Long- 
ford had infant-mortality rates below 60 per 
1,000 births during 1915, and that in them 17.1 
per cent, of the births of Ireland occurred. Of 
these counties, Galway, Mayo, Leitrim, and Ros- 
common, all in Connaught, are perhaps the poorest 
counties in the country. 

Dr. Bigger regards a reduction of the infant- 
mortality rate to 50 in the country and 80 in the 
towns as an easily attainable ideal for Ireland. 

50 



The Mother 

A few sentences extracted from the Report furnish 
a good part of the explanation of the low infant- 
mortality rates in the Irish counties : 

" The Irish mother is celebrated throughout the 
world for the affection she has for her offspring " 

(P- 45). 

" The practice of breast-feeding is almost universal 
among the poorer mothers in the country, and is still 
very common in town " (p. 45). 

" The figures (for illegitimate births) vary from 
0.8 per cent, in Connaught to 4 per cent, in Ulster " 

(P- 47). 

" Intemperance in Ireland is now much less common 
than formerly, and although still all too prevalent 
among men, it is rare among women, especially in the 
country " (p. 44). 

" In other countries one of the chief diseases of the 
parents which has a considerable influence in causing 
infant mortality is syphilis. This has already been 
referred to as one of the causes of abortions, miscarriages, 
prematurity, and marasmus in infants, and it has been 
shown that, apart from Dublin and Belfast, the disease 
is not common in Ireland. The deaths of infants 
stated to be due to syphilis amount to 0.7 per cent, of 
the whole ; and though this figure is probably too 
low, the number cannot be large. Syphilis is not ac- 
countable for many of the deaths of infants in Ireland. 
Gonorrhoea, while not causing the deaths of infants, 
is often associated with sterility in females. It is also 
a most usual cause of a serious though non-fatal disease 
of infants ophthalmia neonatorum, which, if neglected, 
causes blindness. Ireland is, however, very free from 
blindness caused by this disease " (pp. 43-44). 



Infant and Young Child 

Syphilis, alcohol, and heavy work by the mother 
in the later part of pregnancy are given as the 
chief causes of deaths of infants ascribed to " pre- 
maturity/' etc., and the following figures, taken 
from the Report, confirm what is said about the 
temperance and freedom from syphilis of Connaught 
mothers : 

DEATHS OF INFANTS FROM PREMATURITY 

Leinster . . .10.9 per 1,000 births 

Ulster ^ . . 10.2 

Munster . . ; 5.2 

Connaught . V 2.0 ,, 

DEATHS FROM SYPHILIS AT ALL AGES 

Leinster . . .2.1 per 1,000 deaths 

Ulster . . . 1.4 

Munster . , . 0.38 

Connaught . 0.12 

Dr. Bigger draws attention to the poverty in 
the country districts, to the practice of midwifery 
by untrained handy women, to the high percentage 
of deaths with no doctor in attendance at the last 
illness, and to the fact that families are larger 
than in England and Scotland. 

It is an extremely noteworthy fact that in the 
west of Ireland, where these low infant-mortality 
rates prevail, rickets is, practically speaking, an 
unknown disease. The Carnegie Report on Scottish 
Mothers and Children records a similar association 
of breast-feeding, low infant mortality-rates, and 

5 2 



The Mother 

absence of rickets, coupled with good teeth, among 
the children of the Outer Hebrides, a large number 
of whom live in the remarkable " black houses/' 

It would appear that the low infant-mortality 
rates in Connaught are attributable to freedom 
from alcohol and syphilis and the determination 
of the Connaught mother to be a mother. The 
country districts of Ireland have suffered in the 
past from absentee landlords, but the babies 
in them have not suffered from absentee 
mothers. 

Bradford compared with Connaught. In a 
lecture published in 1918 by the National Baby 
Week Council, Dr. C. W. Saleeby gives a most in- 
teresting comparison between Bradford and Con- 
naught. Referring to the prosperity of Bradford 
and the splendid and well-directed efforts of its 
model Infant Welfare Department with an ex- 
penditure of 20,000 a year, he points out that, 
in spite of this effort, the infant-mortality rate 
in 1916 was 132, the birth-rate being only 13.2. 
He then goes on to show that in Connaught, where 
there were " poverty," " ignorance/' and adverse 
conditions as regards " medical and nursing re- 
sources/' " housing," and " public effort/' and 
the birth-rate is high, the infant-mortality rate 
is only about 50, and that the infant-mortality 
rate in Roscommon is " little more than one-fourth 
of that of Bradford with its rare babies." " But 
the Connaught babies have healthy mothers with 
an extreme minimum of syphilis, who stay at 
home and feed them as no science can feed them, 

53 



Infant and Young Child 



and the babies live/' while in Bradford 
tically all the mothers go out to work/' 



prac- 



Sheffield compared with Bradford. The fol- 
lowing comparison between Sheffield and Bradford 
is of interest because in Sheffield, unlike Brad- 
ford, the mothers of babies have not gone to work 
in the factories to any appreciable extent during 
the War : 



INFANT-MORTALITY RATE AND BIRTH-RATE 
SHEFFIELD AND IN BRADFORD 



IN 



Year 



Birth-rate 
Sheffield Bradford 



Infant-mortality rate 
per 1,000 births 
Sheffield Bradford 



1909 . . 


29.8 . . 


18.8 


.. 119 . v 


116 


1910 . . 


28.1 . . 


18.6 


.. 127 .. 


127 


1911 . . 


27.7 .. 


19.0 


. . 141 


138 


1912 . . 


27.7 .. 


19.4 


.. 107 .. 


99 


1913 . . 


28.2 . . 


19.9 


.. 128 ... 


127 


Average 5 yrs. 










1909-13 . . 


28.3 .. 


19.1 


,:. 124 . . 


121 


1914 . . 


27-3 


19.7 


-.. 132 .. 


122 


1915 . . 


25-5 


17-5 


.... 133 


123 


1916 . . 


25-3 


17-5 


.-.- 109 . . 


119 


1917 .. 


21.7 . . 


13-2 


. . 104 . . 


131 


1918 . . 


20.7 . . 


13-2 


. . 129 . . 


123 


Average 5 yrs. 










1914-18 . . 


24.1 .. 


16.2 


. . 121 . . 


124 



It will be noticed that, comparing the quin- 
quennium before the War with the quinquennium 
of the War, the birth-rate in both towns has 

54 



The Mother 

declined, and that in Bradford the infant-mortality 
rate has increased from 121 to 124, whereas in 
Sheffield the rate has declined from 124 to 121. 
The figures, as far as they go, tend to support the 
contentions in Dr. Saleeby's comparison. 

Infant mortality of Dublin. Throughout Ire- 
land the infant-mortality rate has always been 
low compared with other countries, and even in the 
towns, as, for example, Dublin, it has never been 
so high as one would expect from the social and 
sanitary conditions and the high general death- 
rate. In the case of Dublin the Carnegie Report 
points out that it is not an industrial city, and 
that the mothers " are able to remain at home and 
tend and nurse their children/' 

English and Irish mothers in Liverpool. Dr. 
Hope, giving evidence before a Committee of 
Inquiry into the health of the city of Dublin, 
attributed the lower infant mortality among the 
Irish population in the slums of Liverpool as com- 
pared with the English population to the fact 
that the Irish mothers suckled their babies much 
more commonly than the English. 

Racial traditions of motherhood must be very 
strong to survive exposure to conditions such as 
are to be met with in the poorest parts of Liver- 
pool and Dublin, and one cannot help feeling that 
religion and the inspiration of the Holy Mother 
must play a part in producing this result. The 
beautiful picture of a peasant mother in the frontis- 
piece of the Irish Carnegie Report seems to be the 
recognition by the Irish author of this train of 

55 



Infant and Young Child 

thought. It may seem a paradox that a Church 
with a celibate clergy should have this effect, 
but the mere fact that the clergy do not have 
their imagination dulled by the everydayness of 
family life may enable them to keep the ideals 
on a higher plane for those to whom they have to 
act as spiritual directors. 

Italian ideals of motherhood. If we turn to 
the Italians in this country, who also preserve 
their ideals of motherhood so wonderfully, in spite 
of adverse circumstances, in many of our large 
cities, is it not conceivable that they have acquired 
ineradicable impressions in their upbringing in the 
country of the beautiful Madonnas ? We are not 
going to raise the ideals of motherhood and family 
life by science or pure reason alone, and the example 
of the Jewish, Irish, and Italian mothers may point 
the way to a more inspiring method of applying 
our religious ideals. 

The Society of Friends and family life. This 
is an example of a small religious community 
which has succeeded in incorporating in its code 
of ethics a very high standard of family life. The 
infant mortality among them is very low. 

It may be said that the small size of the Society 
(there are about 20,000 Quakers in the United 
Kingdom), and the fact that there are few, if any, 
Quakers living below the " poverty line," make it 
unfair to compare them with communities which 
include many poor persons. It may, however, be 
fair to compare them with the more well-to-do 
portion of our population in certain particulars. 

56 



The Mother 

The Central Office of the Society of Friends 
keeps a record of the births and deaths of all mem- 
bers of the Society. When both parents are 
Quakers their children become members of the 
Society by birthright. It is possible, therefore, to 
obtain the number of births and the number of 
deaths under one year over a period of years. 
During the eight years 1910-1917 there were re- 
corded 1,024 births and 35 deaths under one year, 
which is equivalent to an infant-mortality rate of 
about 34 per 1,000 births. 

The Secretary of the Society of Friends has 
kindly supplied me with figures relating to twenty- 
five years before 1910. During this period, 1885 
to 1909, there were 3,959 births and 236 deaths 
of children under one year, equivalent to an infant- 
mortality rate of 60. If the period is divided into 
three, we find that during 1885 to 1893 there were 
1,539 births and 106 deaths under one year ; during 
1894 to 1901, 1,211 births and 74 deaths under one 
year ; during 1902 to 1909, 1,209 births and 56 
deaths under one year. Thus, the infant mor- 
tality in the Society since 1885 has been as follows : 

1885-1893 . . .69 per 1,000 births 

1894-1901 . . .61,, 

1902-1909 . . . 46 

1910-1917 . . . 34 

I am indebted to a medical and other members 
of the Society for further information which I believe 
will be of interest. Quaker mothers almost in- 
variably breast-feed their babies, not as the result 

57 



Infant and Young Child 

of any direct teaching on the subject, but because 
they devote themselves to the home and social 
service, and have an instinctive feeling that it is 
their duty to their children. 

Early marriage is commoner than among per- 
sons of corresponding social status, because the 
much simpler life lived by the Quakers renders 
early marriage possible. Definite talks on sex 
questions are given by most parents to their chil- 
dren, beginning at quite an early age, such as four 
or five years, when questions begin to be asked. 
Illegitimacy is practically unknown. Alcoholism 
and venereal disease are very rare. 

A chief factor in enabling this high moral 
standard to be reached has been that for genera- 
tions the boys and girls have been brought up as 
equals. In the place of worship and in the home 
there is no distinction, and the same moral standard 
is expected of each sex when they grow up. Girls 
and boys have equal education, and the girls of a 
family are not brought up to wait on the boys. 
The form of worship and the life expected of mem- 
bers of the Society teach self-restraint. They 
realise that there is an element of the divine in every 
human creature, and that to defile it would be a 
sin. A great point is made of talks at the schools 
on social subjects. 

One of my correspondents writes : " The Society 
certainly planned to give all its children a good 
education, and our schools have done splendid 
work in the past, especially in the way they have 
emphasised the need for educating our girls quite 

58 



The Mother 

as well as our boys, even though they have not 
quite managed to carry out the magnificent recom- 
mendation of our founder, George Fox, that ' our 
girls shall be taught all things civil and useful in 
creation.' It is this equal ideal, I think, which 
makes the relationship between brothers and sisters 
among us curiously different from that in many 
families, and I know it strikes many outsiders 
very strongly. The girls of the Quaker family 
are not sacrificed in order to send the boys to 
college ! " 

Parenthood is taken very seriously by the 
Quakers, and a considerable portion of their book, 
" Christian Discipline of the Society of Friends/' 
is devoted to advice to parents. The following 
extract from Part II., " Christian Practice " (pp. 
66 and 67), dealing with a matter which is very 
important from the point of view of the education 
of children for parenthood and the prevention of 
immorality, illegitimacy, and venereal diseases, is 
a good example : 

" It is our earnest conviction that it is the duty, 
as it is also the privilege, of parents to teach their 
children the main facts concerning the formation and 
functions of their own bodies, and concerning the 
manner in which they have come into the world. This 
can be done gradually in a simple and natural way, 
according to the growing intelligence of the child. 
By answering the child's questionings, and by making 
use of illustrations from nature, it should be possible 
to prevent any morbid thoughts, and to impress upon 
the child's mind the beauty, purity, and holiness of 

59 



Infant and Young Child 

life. The fullest confidence between parents and 
children may well be encouraged in this matter. When 
it is not dealt with in the way suggested, the informa- 
tion which is naturally sought for by the inquiring 
child will often be communicated by others in a manner 
calculated to soil the mind and to work immeasurable 
harm in the future. The responsibility for the wise 
handling of this vital subject should be shared by both 
parents." 

If we were all Quakers the complex problem 
of infant mortality and child welfare would be 
easily solved. One does not, however, suggest 
that as the way out. It is not the ideals of the 
Churches that are at fault ; it is the failure to 
incorporate those ideals in everyday conduct in 
such a manner as to raise the regard for mother- 
hood and the sanctity of family life. Breast- 
feeding, for example, ought to be regarded as a 
religious duty. It is not so regarded. Have the 
Churches been too much concerned in what one 
might call the theory of religion to give to these 
all-important subjects the attention which they 
deserve ? 



60 



CHAPTER IV 
The Training of the Mother 

THERE is not much satisfaction to be got from doing 
any job unless you know how, and a mother's job 
is no exception to the rule. Efficient housewives 
are more important than bricks and mortar in the 
making of healthy homes. In addition to knowing 
about the feeding and rearing of children, the 
mother needs to be an expert in housewifery, cook- 
ing, laundry work, and needlework. In the days 
of our great-great-grandmothers most of the popu- 
lation lived in the country, and girls learnt these 
things from their mothers, those eighteenth-cen- 
tury mothers whom Napoleon feared. Nowadays 
most of us live in towns, and girls leave school 
at 13 or 14 years of age to go into shops, work- 
shops, and factories, and at the end of their day's 
work are in no humour to learn housewifery ; and 
if they were, the chances are that the town mother, 
who has not been properly taught herself, would 
not be in a position to teach them. 

We have not yet learned how to live in towns. 
Training of future mothers. The change from 
country life to town life makes it essential that 
every girl's education should include a thorough 
training in cooking, housework, laundry work, 
needlework, and mothercraft. The mother's is a 

61 



Infant and Young Child 

skilled trade, and as urbanisation has abolished 
the apprenticeship system we have to find a sub- 
stitute. One imagines that the apprenticeship 
system must have been kept up in the country 
districts of Ireland, because of the low infant- 
mortality rates in Leitrim, Mayo, Galway, and 
Roscommon. Nowadays the town girl may, be- 
fore leaving school, get a smattering of some of 
the subjects enumerated, but after a few years 1 
work in an office, shop, or factory she soon for- 
gets what she has learnt, and is probably little 
qualified to run a house when she is married. At 
the present time the curriculum of elementary 
education is too crowded and too short to get 
the subjects in, and, in addition to this, there are 
not enough domestic economy centres to give the 
teaching. Also, if the estimates have to be cut 
down, domestic economy is often the subject which 
goes to the wall. When half-time education is 
continued up to 18 years of age, it ought to be 
possible for every girl to get a really good know- 
ledge of domestic economy and to begin her mar- 
ried life with the confident feeling that she knows 
something about her job. Many of the hopeless 
slatterns with neglected homes and families whom 
we come across have developed from well-in- 
tentioned girls who never learned how to manage 
a house, and who, as the babies came and the 
work increased, have simply let things slide and 
perhaps taken to drink at the finish. 

Lack of domestic servants. Another reason 
will emphasise the need for thorough teaching in 

62 



The Training of the Mother 

housecraft and mothercraft. The number of male 
workers has been greatly reduced by war casualties, 
and in order that we may pay our way as a country 
women will be required to do work of national 
importance. The war will leave us with a paucity 
of domestic servants,] and hence fewer women will 
learn house management through domestic service. 
Incidentally the middle-class woman will have to 
become more efficient as a mother and a 
housewife, to her own great gain. All this will 
help to put scientific housewifery on a new 
footing. 

Training of existing mothers. The instruc- 
tion of the future mothers in domestic economy 
and mothercraft is only one part of the problem ; 
we have also to do what we can to improve the 
efficiency of existing mothers, whose education in 
these matters has been neglected. This can be 
done by the institution of sewing and cookery 
classes in connection with Maternity and Child 
Welfare Centres, Mothers' and Babies' Welcomes, 
and Schools for Mothers. Sir George Newman's 
Report for 1917 shows that 286 of such institutions 
received grants from the Board of Education for 
the year ended March 3ist, 1918, representing an 
increase over the number for 1915 of 129. The 
most hopeful method would seem to be the holding 
of classes for mothers by the Education Committee 
at the schools which their daughters attend. The 
grant of the Board of Education is available for 
such classes. The mothers, as a rule, feel a great 
interest in the cookery competitions and exhibitions 

63 



Infant and Young Child 

in which the scholars take part, and one would 
suppose that this is the most likely way of arousing 
their interest and getting them to attend classes 
themselves. 

In the poorest parts of a large city one finds 
whole streets and districts where the use of a 
needle is almost unknown. One wonders what is 
the effect on a mother whose knowledge of needle- 
work and cooking is of the scantiest if her daughter 
is turned out by the school an expert in these 
matters. Does the mother learn from the daughter, 
and is she stimulated to attend evening classes 
on these subjects instituted for mothers by the 
Education Committee, or does she look with scorn 
on the acquirements of her daughter ? 

Of course, what has been done up to now in 
the way of training for motherhood has been 
absurdly inadequate, and yet it seems impossible 
to exaggerate the effects that would result from 
a thorough training of the women of the nation in 
mothercraft and housecraft. Certainly the solution 
of the housing problem would be hastened thereby, 
because well-trained women would not put up 
with the primitive housing arrangements which 
have hitherto been provided for them in so many 
cases. Miss M. V. Palmer, author of " The Com- 
monwealth Cookery Book," and organiser of domes- 
tic subjects to the Birmingham Education Com- 
mittee, who formerly occupied a similar position 
at Sheffield, has kindly prepared for me the follow- 
ing suggested schemes for helping existing mothers 
and training school girls : 



The Training of the Mother 

SUGGESTIONS FOR HELPING EXISTING MOTHERS 

Every evening school should include not only 
Lectures on all domestic subjects, but also on Mother- 
craft (or Maternity), in its curriculum. 

Local Education Authorities should arrange after- 
noon Lectures on 

Cookery : 

Simple Household. 

Invalid. 

Meals for children. 
Laundrywork. 
Housecraft 

(Special attention being paid to labour-saving 

devices). 
Needlework : 

Dressmaking. Tailoring. Millinery. 
Hygiene : 

First Aid. Home Nursing. 
Maternity. 

It is important that these Lectures should be popu- 
larised by first getting into touch with Women's Asso- 
ciations, e.g. the Women's Co-operative Guilds, Mothers' 
Meetings, Women's Institutes, etc. 

Prizes might be given even - examinations have 
been known to act as incentives. 

Small Exhibitions, open to the public, should be 
held at the end of each course. 

The Lectures should generally be given in some 
accessible building, and one well known to the 
general public, e.g. an Elementary School, Church 
or Chapel Room, Women's Institute, Public 
Hall. 

65 



CTI 



.a M 



UJ 




I i - a 1 g -I 

1 115 l" a ^ 





. 



O) --4 

s 2 

Iifi 

, U a 

I* &3 

W P 



. 

!:* 

31 



oo bp-Jf 

H C 

2 

H *d * 



e<g 8 



-3 






i 



! 



W-Uf 







.S3 So w S ,3 3 -M M 

* 115 j 8 



|1*<|J" 

4* a S 



: ?- a lI I, 5 11 8< i5 ll^i 

? a o,S'd2H-Hrhft^5 3 -ft 3 -C CD 

^4 O H 
gg: J 

w^. b 

<UH^ ' A ^^-Sd "* 5 ^'~ I fl_ "d" 

>>H oS;9-S' | - >0 J 5 -fcTwaJw 

4 ^ 'tJ .0 P . .,H "- g r-i Jj H 




^JNJA{I|J1 

5 



8 . 

gl 








Infant and Young Child 

If possible, during the second and third terms, 
two hours per week should be spent as follows : 

2nd Term Cookery (including the preparation ot 
menus and of meals for families of various 
sizes, invalid cookery, etc.). 

yd Term Needlework or simple dressmaking (in- 
cluding design). 



68 



CHAPTER V 
Child Poverty 

As regards child welfare, I believe that the money 
question is of very great importance. No one 
knows what the nation loses through child poverty. 

Child poverty is a disgrace to any nation, and 
is expensive ultimately by filling workhouses, hos- 
pitals, reformatories, asylums, and prisons. 

The victims of child poverty may, roughly, be 
divided into five classes : 

1. The children of widows and disabled bread- 

winners. 

2. The children of large families where both 

parents are alive and the breadwinner 
earns a wage insufficient to meet the needs 
of the family. 

3. The children of a man who earns a big 

enough wage but persists in giving his 
wife an insufficient sum every week to 
keep house on. 

4. The children of neglectful and drunken 

parents. 

5. Illegitimate children. 

Children of widows and disabled bread- 
winners. The first of the five classes is no doubt 

69 



Infant and Young Child 

humanely dealt with by progressive Boards of 
Guardians, but it is considered a disgrace by many 
people to have to apply to the Guardians, and a 
good deal of want is often endured before applica- 
tion is made. It is impossible for a working man 
to make provision so that his wife and children 
can " carry on " if he is cut off prematurely, or 
permanently disabled. Let us take an example. 
A woman well able to earn her own living marries 
a man who is an exemplary husband, and they 
have six children. The husband dies from pneu- 
monia when the eldest child is twelve. But for 
her children the mother could again earn her own 
living. She has done nothing to merit any dis- 
grace. She ought to receive an honourable allow- 
ance free from the taint of pauperism or charity, 
to enable her to maintain a home for her children 
until they are started in life. 

This class of child poverty, one feels, could be 
adequately dealt with by the adoption in this 
country of what are known in America as " Mothers' 
Pensions," or, as their principal advocate, Judge 
Neill, would prefer to have them called, " Child 
Pensions." I believe it was Judge Neill who pointed 
out that there is ancient historic precedent for this 
system, in that Moses was boarded out with his 
own mother, and Pharaoh's daughter paid the 
" mother's pension." Opinion in this country is 
undoubtedly growing in favour of giving the 
system a trial. 

The children of large families. Children of 
the second class might also be dealt with by a 

70 



Child Poverty 

system of child pensions. When there are more 
than four children in the family under school-leaving 
age simultaneously, an adequate allowance for each 
child exceeding the number of four would perhaps 
meet such cases. It is mathematically impossible 
for a man and his wife and six children below 14 
to be adequately maintained on a labourer's wages. 
Even with the greatest thrift the children must be 
underfed, insufficiently clad, and improperly housed. 
Yet there are many such families. If we, as a 
nation, are in earnest in this crusade we shall see 
to it that the children in a large family have proper 
support. How can one fix a living wage which is 
suitable alike for a single man, a single woman, a 
man and his wife and three children, and a man 
and his wife and six or eight children ? The State 
must come to the rescue and recognise that a 
woman who is bringing up a large family well is 
doing good work. The dignity of motherhood de- 
mands that any assistance given by the State in 
such cases be free from the taint of pauperism or 
patronising charity. 

Pre-natal influences count for something. The 
advent of a new-comer in a normally prosperous 
family is hailed with joy. Can it be so if the 
parents have already all they can do to make both 
ends meet, and know that one more mouth to fill 
will mean their sinking below the poverty line ? 
Is it remarkable if the woman in such circumstances 
has recourse to dangerous operations or to drugs 
which may cost her her life ? We must abolish the 
unwanted child and help the super-mother. 

7* 



Infant and Young Child 

The principle of making allowance for the main- 
tenance of children has been recognised in the 
income-tax for some years, and since the outbreak 
of war a system of war allowances varying accord- 
ing to the size of the family has come into operation 
on a huge scale, and those of us who have been 
intimately in contact with its working are able 
to say that it has been very little abused. In 
very many cases homes have been improved, neces- 
sary furniture has been obtained, and the children 
have been better fed and clothed than ever before. 
This was especially the case where the families 
received the half wage of the man who had been 
" called up," in addition to the Army allowance. 
When the school-leaving age is still further raised, 
and children continue their education as half- 
timers to 18 years of age, there will be all the more 
reason for assisting the large families. 

I do not think that the cost of thus assisting 
large families will be so very great. 

At the 1911 census the population of Sheffield 
was about 450,000, of whom 200,000 lived in houses 
of four rooms or less. The families which would 
require assistance in the manner suggested would 
be mostly included in the 200,000 living in the 
small houses. 

It is possible to obtain from the census the 
number of those families in which there were more 
than four children under the age of 10 simultane- 
ously at the time when the census was taken, and 
also the number of such children. The total of 
such children exceeding the limit of four per family 

72 



Child Poverty 

in Sheffield in 1911 was 835, and if an allowance of 
5s. per week had been paid in respect of each of 
them the total annual cost would have been 10,855. 
A penny rate in Sheffield brings in nearly 9,000, 
so that the cost for children under 10 would be 
equivalent to a rate of about ijd. in the , but 
there would be some savings to put against this 
in decreased out-relief, etc. One cannot obtain 
from the census the same particulars for children 
under the school-leaving age of 14, but the cost 
would certainly be less than a ad. rate. I only 
mention the rates for the purpose of giving some 
idea of the cost. Most people will agree that 
assistance of this kind to both widows and large 
families should be a national and not a local charge 

I would further suggest that these child pen- 
sions should be administered by the local health 
authorities, who already possess, through their 
health visitors, much knowledge of the families and 
would be able to ascertain if the pensions were being 
rightly used. 

The payment of an adequate allowance for each 
child boarded out with its own mother would not 
exceed one-third of the cost of keeping such child 
in a Poor Law institution, and the allowances in 
such cases would be really preventives of poverty 
and want, with all their direful results to the 
physique of the children, instead of assistance from 
the Poor Law after the breaking-up of the home 
and the occurrence of destitution. I think that 
the difference in cost between adequate and timely 
allowances paid to the mothers and the necessarily 

73 



Infant and Young Child 

belated payments made by the Guardians in re- 
spect of many such families would be balanced 
by the lessened cost of institutions and the im- 
proved health of the children, the latter of which 
gains is not to be expressed in money value. 

It need not unduly worry us that the cost of 
child pensions will to a large extent fall on bachelors 
and the childless. We are all working for social 
evolution and the future, whether it be a Christian, 
a Socialist, or a Jewish millennium to which we 
look forward. We do not exactly want to punish 
the conscientious objectors and shirkers who fail 
to join up in the matrimonial army, but I know 
of no reason why they should be left out in the 
cold. 

Children of neglectful parents. The third class 
of victims of child poverty are the children of 
indifferent fathers who do not seem to realise their 
responsibilities and appear to be unconscious of 
neglect till their attention is drawn to the matter 
by an outsider. As the border-line between 
parental indifference and parental neglect is ill- 
defined it may be well to consider this and the 
fourth class together. 

It used to be quite a common practice before 
the War for men earning big wages to " give the 
wife a sovereign to keep house on " and spend 
the rest on themselves, and some of the cases were 
only brought to a head by war prices and the fact 
that the consequently increased insufficiency of the 
sovereign meant semi-starvation and neglect for 
the wife and children. The War also brought to 

74 



Child Poverty 

light the widespread ignorance among wives of 
the amount of their husbands' earnings, and even 
of the places where they worked. At the outset 
of the War many firms continued to pay half wages 
to their employees who enlisted, and the comments 
of the surprised wives when they received their 
husband's half -wages for the first time were, to 
put it mildly, sometimes forcible. 

This question of the allocation of a reasonable 
proportion of a man's earnings to the maintenance 
of his family can be, and no doubt is being to 
some extent, solved hy the change in the standard 
for the maintenance of children which is now 
demanded by public opinion. For example, when 
the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty 
to Children began its work the standard it aimed 
at was necessarily a low one. It was a pioneer 
society supported by voluntary subscriptions, and 
it had to feel its way and gain the confidence 
of the public. Most of the work was done by 
patient supervision and admonition. The cases 
which were taken into Court were therefore, as a 
rule, cases of gross neglect and actual physical 
cruelty, and it was almost necessary to prove to 
the magistrates that the children had actually 
suffered in health. Now, thanks to the splendid 
work of this Society, followed as it has been by 
valuable legislation such as the Children Act, and 
the establishment of Child Welfare Departments 
and School Medical Inspection, the standard has 
been raised, and it is not necessary to wait till the 
children have suffered before taking action. It is 

75 



Infant and Young Child 

enough to prove to the magistrates that the children 
of parents in receipt of a good income, even if 
fairly well nourished, are verminous, clad in rags, 
and have no proper bedding or bed-clothes, to 
secure a conviction. The pleasant feature of this 
raising of the standard is that it results from the 
opinion of all classes. Most of the reports of 
neglected children which we receive come from 
neighbours who refuse to look on in silence when 
children are not being fairly dealt by. 

Of course, most cases of child neglect are due 
to drink, and are very difficult to deal with. If 
the man drinks, the wife often makes a brave show, 
but if the woman drinks the husband has no chance, 
because the wife, when he is away from home, 
pawns the furniture and the children's clothes and 
spends the proceeds on drink. 

There is no very satisfactory penalty. A fine 
only further impoverishes the children. A term 
of imprisonment may put the children temporarily in 
the care of the Guardians, but the trouble usually 
begins again when the prisoner is released. An 
order for committal to an Inebriates' Home can 
only be obtained after three convictions or on 
proof that the person convicted is a confirmed 
drunkard. Sometimes the defendant agrees volun- 
tarily to go to a Home in order to escape a term 
of imprisonment, but there are not enough Homes 
for the reception of such cases. Very frequently 
the only satisfactory solution is the formal adoption 
by the Board of Guardians of all the children till 
they are 18 years of age. 

76 






Child Poverty 

More use might be made of the Children Act. 
It may not be generally known that " any person 
who in the opinion of the Justices is acting in the 
interests of a child " which is being neglected may 
get a warrant for its removal to a place of safety 
and take proceedings against the person guilty of 
neglect. Unnecessary delay and suffering to the 
child are often caused by the erroneous impression 
that the National Society for the Prevention of 
Cruelty to Children is the only body which has 
power to act. 

In Sheffield the Maternity and Child Welfare 
Department occasionally finds it extremely useful 
to put the clauses of the Children Act in operation 
in cases where notices and warnings are ignored. 
A warrant is obtained for the removal of the children 
to a place of safety, and proceedings are taken 
against one or both parents for neglect. In some 
cases the parents are put on probation, and an 
order is made for the children to remain in the 
Guardians' Homes till their own home is fit for 
their reception. In other cases a term of imprison- 
ment is inflicted, and the children at any rate 
get a respite and live under decent conditions for 
a time. It is remarkable how, in some cases and 
the records of the N.S.P.C.C. are quite convincing 
on this point the term of imprisonment has the 
effect of " pulling up " the parent and ultimately 
securing for the children a restoration of reasonable 
home conditions. We find that the fact that the 
woman inspector or school nurse occasionally has 
to take part in proceedings against parents who 

77 



Infant and Young Child 

neglect and ill-treat their children in no way dis- 
turbs her friendly relations with mothers who are 
anxious to do their best for their children. 

Illegitimate children. The fifth class of vic- 
tims of child poverty have a much worse time now 
than they had in the Middle Ages. It is no credit 
to Christianity that it should be so, or that the 
death-rate among them should be twice what it is 
among legitimate children. One need not labour 
the point that the child is in no way responsible 
for the stigma cast upon it, and that if properly 
looked after it may grow up to do as useful work 
as anybody else. If I were an illegitimate child 
I should like to think I had as fellow-sufferers in 
this respect the greatest genius the world has ever 
known, Leonardo da Vinci, and the Renaissance 
scholar, Erasmus. 

The N.S.P.C.C. is at present promoting a Bill 
which will greatly improve the chances of the 
illegitimate child, and which deserves general sup- 
port. The Bill proposes to throw more responsi- 
bility on the father and to give the mother a better 
chance of dealing with her burden. Proceedings 
for affiliation will be made easier, the magistrates 
will have power to increase the allowance paid by 
the father, and the illegitimate child will become 
the ward of a court of summary jurisdiction em- 
powered to act on its behalf. If the Bill becomes 
law a great advance will have been made in this 
question. A recent Order of the Local Government 
Board gives local authorities new powers to expend 
money in the interests of the illegitimate child, 

78 



Child Poverty 

and further benefit may be expected from the 
efforts of the recently established National Council 
for the Unmarried Mother and her Child. Alto- 
gether, there are signs of an awakening, and one 
may hope that steps will be taken ere long to 
remove this blot on our national reputation. 



79 



CHAPTER VI 
An Efficient Medical Service 

THE mother needs to be backed up by an efficient 
Medical Service. 

Infant hygiene and the medical curriculum. 

The first point to be insisted upon is that the 
whole question of the management and feeding 
of the infant requires to be given a proper place 
in the medical curriculum. One realises that the 
curriculum is overcrowded, but the importance of 
the subject demands that it should have proper 
attention and that less important subjects should 
give way to it. Infant management is not 
included in Medicine, Surgery, or Public Health. 
It is, perhaps, supposed to be included in Mid- 
wifery, but as a rule it receives scant attention. 
The lecturer on Midwifery is primarily an obste- 
trician, and as a rule is not an expert on the manage- 
ment of infants. His concern is with the mother, 
not with the baby. Sir A. R. Simpson, who for 
so long occupied the Chair of Midwifery in the 
University of Edinburgh, made a remarkable con- 
fession in his introduction to the translation of 
Budin's book on the nursling : " When I look back 
on my own professional and professorial life," he 
wrote, " no memory stings me with more sharp 
regret than the thought of the too little heed I 

80 



An Efficient Medical Service 

have given to the needs of the neonate." It has 
been the fashion for some years to talk about the 
ignorance of mothers as one of the chief causes 
of infant mortality, but we have only just realised 
that the medical profession knew very little about 
the matter, and that there was no one to teach the 
mothers. 

As the result of infant consultations and the 
work of a few medical men and women who have 
devoted special attention to the subject, we now 
know that such an elementary matter as the manage- 
ment of breast-feeding cannot be left to the instinct 
of mothers, aided by the advice of a more or less 
ignorant grandmother, monthly nurse, or midwife. 
There has been no one to teach the monthly nurse 
or midwife, so that it is not surprising that the 
newly-born infant has been the victim of many 
curious superstitions and traditions. Dr. Eric 
Pritchard has made the valuable suggestion that at 
each training school for midwives a special member 
of the medical staff should be told off to instruct 
the pupils in infant management. For this pur- 
pose it would, of course, be necessary to make new 
appointments of men or women of special ex- 
perience. The staff of a hospital for women are 
appointed on account of their skill as obstetricians 
or gynaecologists, and it is very necessary in the 
interest of the babies that there should be one 
member of the staff who has special knowledge of 
infant management. There can be no doubt that 
great advances have been made in our knowledge 
of this subject in the last ten or fifteen years, and 
G 81 



Infant and Young Child 

that there would now be found medical men and 
women capable of doing excellent work in such 
appointments. 

It is also advisable that there should be an 
ophthalmic surgeon on the staff, although his ser- 
vices might not be required very frequently. 

In January, 1913, the Society of Medical Officers 
of Health unanimously passed the following resolu- 
tion : 

" That, with a view to the reduction of infant 
mortality, the Council of the Society be asked to con- 
sider the best method of securing that the subject of 
infant management be given a more important place 
in the medical curriculum/ 1 

Inquiries made early in 1914, by the National 
Association for the Prevention of Infant Mortality, 
of all the medical schools and children's hospitals 
where teaching is given, throughout the United 
Kingdom, elicited the fact that the subjects of 
infant hygiene and management receive very little 
attention in the medical curriculum. The Execu- 
tive Committee of the Association thereupon made 
the following recommendations : 

" (i) That degree- and licence-conferring bodies 
should require from each candidate for the final examina- 
tion in Medicine a certificate of having attended a course 
of clinical instruction on infant hygiene, to include 
lectures or demonstrations on the management of 
infants, and the prophylaxis and treatment of infantile 
diseases. 

" Such a course should include instruction in the 
82 



An Efficient Medical Service 

part played by the State in infant hygiene, with special 
reference to the duties and functions of the medical 
practitioner, the midwife, the hospital and local sani- 
tary authorities, and the health visitors. 

" (2) That the certificate required from candidates 
in Midwifery for the final examination should include 
evidence that they have received instruction in ante- 
natal pathology and hygiene, and in the management 
of infants during labour, the puerperium, and the period 
of lactation." 

In the meantime the newly qualified medical 
practitioner has a great advantage over his pre- 
decessors in the fact that he can attend one of 
the many Infant Clinics that are now in existence. 

If he intends to go into general practice he 
will be well advised to follow up his residential 
hospital appointments by a few years spent as 
Assistant Medical Officer in several of the special 
services which have recently sprung up. He will 
be in a much stronger position to undertake general 
practice if he has, for example, done six months' 
work at an Infant Clinic and a like period at a 
Venereal Diseases Clinic and a Tuberculosis Dis- 
pensary and as a School Medical Officer. He will 
thus have acquired information about child manage- 
ment and children's diseases which will be invalu- 
able to him in practice, and will at the same time 
have been in the receipt of a reasonable salary, 
so that no hardship will have been entailed by 
the delay. The recently qualified medical prac- 
titioner who has no knowledge of infant manage- 
ment is at the mercy of the monthly nurse when 

83 



Infant and Young Child 

she reports that " there seems to be no milk," or 
that " the milk is very thin/' or " doesn't seem to 
be doing the baby any good," and has to assent 
in consequence to quite unnecessary weaning. 
Unless he is well up in the details he cannot hold 
his own against a half-hearted mother or a tricky 
monthly nurse. 

The first point, then, with regard to the Medical 
Service is that much greater attention must be 
given by the medical schools to the question of 
infant management, so that each new practitioner 
may start practice with a good knowledge of the 
subject. 

The famUy doctor. In whatever manner the 
Medical Service is reconstructed, we need a system 
in which each family will have its family doctor. 
The relation of the family doctor to the special 
institutions, such as School Clinics, Tuberculosis 
Dispensaries, Maternity and Child Welfare Centres, 
and Venereal Disease Clinics, will have to be deter- 
mined. The family doctor must be linked up with 
the consulting surgeons and physicians, and the 
hospitals, convalescent homes, and also with mid- 
wives, district nurses, and mothers' helps, so that 
his patients may have the benefit of these services 
in time of need. More lying-in hospitals are 
needed, and more beds for the accommodation of 
pregnant women suffering from syphilis, as it is 
now recognised that this is a satisfactory time for 
treatment from the point of view both of the mother 
and of the unborn child. More children's hospitals, 
convalescent homes, and open-air schools are re- 

84 



An Efficient Medical Service 

quired. Especially do we need more hospitals for 
crippled children on the lines of the Lord Mayor 
Treloar Hospital at Alton. 

A Dental Service. Besides this, arrangements 
must be made for dentists to look after the teeth 
of the children. This is being done to some extent 
with regard to the children of school age by School 
Clinics, and power has recently been given to 
Maternity and Child Welfare Centres to establish 
Dental Clinics. The system will have to be gener- 
ally extended. There is probably no more wide- 
spread cause of ill-health than bad teeth, and 
certainly none which has been more neglected 
hitherto. We need many more dentists, and the 
prohibition of dental practice by unqualified and 
untrained persons. 

The Poor Law Medical Service will obviously 
become involved in the changes which take place. 

Out-patient Departments. Another matter ur- 
gently requiring attention is the reform of Out- 
patient Departments. These are at present 
swamped by patients who ought never to be sent 
there. Mothers who take their children to Out- 
patient Departments are frequently required to 
spend the whole day in the waiting-room, to the 
great detriment of their homes. Out-patient De- 
partments ought to be restricted to accidents, 
cases requiring special treatment, and those cases 
which are sent by a general practitioner for a con- 
sultant's opinion. This will only become possible 
when there is a satisfactory domiciliary medical 
service available for the treatment of all children. 

85 



Infant and Young Child 

Medical treatment for all children. At present 
we have medical supervision of school children 
and a satisfactory method of searching out de- 
fects and ailments that require treatment, but we 
have no really satisfactory method of securing 
treatment for the defects and ailments found. In 
many cases there is no family doctor because the 
parents cannot afford to run up a bill ; some of 
the special ailments are dealt with at the School 
Clinic, some are sent to the already overcrowded 
Out-patient Departments, and many go untreated. 
There still remain, in addition to the disabling ail- 
ments found by medical inspection, the dangerous 
acute illnesses which attack school children, and 
for these provision has yet to be made. The opera- 
tions of Maternity and Child Welfare Centres have 
been extended so as to deal with children up to 
the school age, but in this case attendance is quite 
voluntary, so, of course, the searching-out of de- 
fects and ailments among the pre-school children is 
not nearly so perfect as among the school children. 
Here again there is no adequate provision for 
treatment of the defects and ailments found or 
for domiciliary treatment of the pre-school child 
when attacked by acute disease. 

Claims of the wives and children of the in- 
sured. I am not in a position to express an 
opinion as to whether the Insurance Act provides 
a satisfactory domiciliary medical service for the 
insured person, but it is quite clear that the insured 
persons as a whole are the section of the com- 
munity which, as a rule, needs the least medical 

86 



An Efficient Medical Service 

attention and at the time of the passing of the 
Insurance Act suffered least from the want of 
medical attention. The section of the community 
which needs most medical attention and suffers 
most from the want of it is made up of the wives 
and children of the insured persons. In any re- 
constructed Medical Service the mother must be 
put into such a position that she can call in 
her family doctor for herself or her children when- 
ever they need medical attention, without being 
deterred by the fear of running up a bill which may 
take her years to pay. This proposition does not 
apply only to the families of working-men and 
clerks. There are, in fact, very few householders 
who can face a big doctor's bill with equanimity, 
and it seems obvious that the securing of a satis- 
factory Medical Service for all can only be met 
by some system of insurance or all-round levy. 



CHAPTER VII 
Management of the Baby 

" Every mother is nurse to her own child unless either death 
or sickness be the let." 

MORE'S " Utopia." 

I ONLY propose to refer to some of the more import- 
ant points with regard to the management of the 
child during the first year of life. 

Breast-feeding. By far the most important 
point is that the baby should be breast-fed. 

Statistics show that the breast-fed child will 
flourish in spite of poverty and adverse sanitary 
and social circumstances. Poverty only becomes 
dangerous in the first year of life if the mother is 
so underfed that she has not sufficient breast-milk 
for her baby. Statistics show that all the improve- 
ments in social conditions which have taken place 
since 1860, and which have produced a steady 
decline in the death-rate of children during the 
second, third, fourth, and fifth years of life, had 
no effect on the death-rate of children during the 
breast-feeding year of life till the beginning of the 
present century, when attention began to be 
focused on the question of infant management. 
This fact is very well shown by the table on the 
opposite page, taken from one of Sir Arthur News- 
holme's Reports to the Local Government Board. 

88 



Management of the Baby 

ENGLAND & WALES. 

DIAGRAM SHOWING THE ANNUAL INFANT MORTALITY FROM 

1855 TO I9O8.THE MORTAL! TV AT AGE l~2 FROM I856TO 
I9O8.AT ABC 2-3 FROM 1857 TO I908.AT A6E 3-4 FROM 
1858 TO I908.AND AT AGE 4'5 FROM 1859 TO 1806. 
o 




DEATHS OF 


INFANTS PfcR l(J0a BIRTHS 




' ' " 



oi 




} i i I 

.DEATHS OF CHILDREN AOEpl-2 YEARji 
PERldOO SURVIVORS AGEO]l 



fun 



} J >. ; 

j ? DEATHS O^ CHlLDRENxAQED 2-3 ; yi 

j i SURVIVORS AGES g;YrXRs i857-is 

o i J J - r .., " ' 



1-2 



2-3 





DIAGRAM FROM THE THIRTY-NINTH ANNUAL REPORT 
OF THE LOCAL GOVERNMENT BOARD (see text). 

(By permission of His Majesty's Stationery Office). 

8 9 



Infant and Young Child 

Statistics also show that when the decline in 
infant mortality did begin it affected the later 
more than the earlier quarters of the year, again 
indicating that social improvements have had most 
effect in the portion of the first year least affected 
by breast-feeding. Breast-feeding is the chief great 
cause of difference in infant mortality as between 
one country and another, as between town and 
country, and as between a town where the mothers 
go out to work and a town where they do not. 
These facts have been well brought out by Sir 
Arthur Newsholme, Sir George Newman, and many 
other writers, and have already been referred to in 
these pages. 

All medical authorities agree that the proper 
food for an infant is its own mother's milk, 
and that the baby which is deprived of its 
natural sustenance is thereby exposed to real 
risk of early death or of permanently impaired 
health. 

The dire results of artificial feeding are well 
known. 

Let us get rid of the idea that the disastrous 
results of bottle-feeding are limited to the babies 
of the poor. It is not so, and I would be content 
to prove this from my experience of the artificially- 
fed babies of medical friends and acquaintances. 
That experience shows me that apathy and ignor- 
ance about breast-feeding and the lack of per- 
severance in practising it extend even to doctors' 
wives, and that the babies of medical men, in spite 
of presumably greater knowledge and care expended 

90 



Management of the Baby 

upon artificial feeding, suffer badly as a result 
of it. 

Risks of bottle-feeding. The risks run by the 
bottle-fed baby may be summarised as follows : 

A liability to all kinds of digestive disturb- 
ance, which may result in impaired digestion 
for life. 

A liability to rickets, with deformities, lasting 
for life. 

An increased liability to adenoids. 

A greatly increased liability to death during 
the first year of life from diarrhoea. 

A lack of vital resistance, causing it to suc- 
cumb more easily to the various diseases 
which it may contract. 

Interference with the proper development of 
both the temporary and permanent teeth, 
with effects lasting for life. 

Liability to scurvy. 

Liability to contract tuberculosis by the in- 
gestion of tuberculous milk. 

The foregoing list of well - recognised dangers 
is, no doubt, incomplete, but it is sufficiently for- 
midable. 

What are we to say of the mother who deliber- 
ately refuses to feed her baby and condemns it to 
run these risks ? Is she not guilty of an offence 
under the Children Act for neglecting her child in 
a manner likely to be injurious to its health ? And 
if the baby dies from some one of the ailments to 

91 



Infant and Young Child 

which she has rendered it liable by her refusal, is 
she not guilty of something akin to manslaughter ? 

It may be that the artificially-fed infant will 
get through its childhood somehow and live to 
be a rickety epileptic, or that " the mother who 
wouldn't " may live to see Caesarean section done 
on her daughter, on account of a rickety pelvis, 
when the latter bears her first child. At a recent 
Congress on Infant Mortality which I attended, one 
of the delegates mentioned that she had had this 
serious operation performed on herself owing to 
being a bottle-fed baby ! I suppose children under 
such circumstances will not feel much bound by 
the fifth commandment. 

i If the mother does not know the risks to which 
she is exposing her child, is this ignorance the fault 
of the medical profession ? If so, the sooner the 
remedy is found the better. There must be no 
uncertainty about the attitude of the profession in 
this matter. It must be clearly laid down that it 
is a crime for any woman, be she princess or 
peasant, who is able to feed her own baby, to refuse 
to do so. It will then come to be recognised as 
a disgrace to the community if a woman is pre- 
vented from feeding her baby by having to go 
out to work. 

Are women unable to nurse their children ? 
The most important point with which we have 
to deal is the alleged inability of women to feed 
their offspring. This inability is discussed in Play- 
fair's " Midwifery " (edition 1881), and one could 
imagine it possible of the Early Victorian mother. 

92 



Management of the Baby 

The inability is said to be increasing, however, and 
to be due to the effects of " high civilisation/* 

It is hard to believe that the woman of to-day, 
brought up with much more regard for physical 
development, is less able to nurse her babies than 
was her Early Victorian predecessor. Again, one 
wonders what is meant by civilisation in this con- 
nection. Cannot a woman use her brain without 
getting atrophy^ of the mamma ? 

Everyone recognises the difficulty of distin- 
guishing between inability and disinclination. 

First of all, we have to consider the dictates of 
fashion. The " woman who couldn't " has perhaps 
in the past been considered rather a superior sort 
of person, too intellectual for such an animal task. 

There has been much ignorance of the importance 
of breast-feeding, no doubt encouraged by the half- 
hearted attitude of the medical profession on the 
subject. 

The ignorance of fathers in this respect is an 
important factor. One hears of fathers who do 
not like their wives to be tied, and wish them to 
go away for a holiday as usual and leave the baby 
to the nurse and the bottle. Fathers as well as 
mothers need to be educated. The ordinary man 
probably thinks it must be a great nuisance to a 
woman to have to feed her baby every few hours, 
and does not appreciate the fact that to the normal 
healthy mother giving the baby the breast is an 
actual physical pleasure. 

There has been shirking by women who did 
not wish to give up their usual pursuits, or to spoil 

93 



Infant and Young Child 

their figures. The refusal to breast-feed and the 
refusal to lead the regular kind of life which makes 
breast-feeding possible are, of course, the same 
thing. 

Influence of the monthly nurse. Secondly, 
there has been almost a conspiracy on the part of a 
section of monthly nurses to discourage breast- 
feeding, partly to please fashionable mothers, 
partly to gratify a sort of perverted maternal in- 
stinct and obtain complete control of the infant, 
partly because it is more comfortable for the nurse 
to heat up a bottle in her own room than to stand 
by the mother's bedside, perhaps on a cold night, 
during the thirty to forty-five minutes which is 
often necessary to get the infant to take its first 
meals. Some monthly nurses go so far as to keep 
the baby from the breast for the first two days, 
so as to avoid stimulating the secretion of the milk. 

The attitude of the monthly nurse is no doubt 
to some extent due to ignorance a reflex of the 
ignorance and apathy of the medical profession on 
the subject. She does not know what the baby 
is losing, and does not hear of its subsequent 
history. 

Thirdly, as I have pointed out in Chapter VI., 
there is ignorance on the part of the medical pro- 
fession as to the practical details of infant manage- 
ment. The management of the infant is neither 
medicine, surgery, nor midwifery, and has received 
scant attention in the medical curriculum. It thus 
comes about that it has been left to the monthly 
nurse, and if the latter reports that the milk is 

94 



Management of the Baby 

insufficient, or poor in quality, the idea of breast- 
feeding is given up light-heartedly, and the doctor 
goes round saying, " How extraordinary it is 
that so many women can't feed their babies 
nowadays ! " 

The doctor, not being well up in the details, 
is not able to lay down the law to a shirking mother 
or a monthly nurse who is playing up to her. The 
advent of women into the profession might have 
been expected to create an improvement, but an 
unmarried woman doctor is not much better than 
a man in these matters, and when a woman doctor 
has had children of her own it has generally been 
when she is not in practice, and the value of her 
experience is therefore lost. 

Ignorance of mothers. At present the woman 
who is bearing her first child is absolutely at the 
mercy of the monthly nurse, and anything the latter 
says about flatness or soreness of the nipples, or 
thinness of the milk, is ex cathedra. 

In the future, when the fashion changes and the 
medical profession take more interest in the matter, 
it is to be hoped that a woman will come to her 
first confinement " armed and engined for the 
same," with all the necessary preparation, deter- 
mination, and knowledge for feeding her first-born. 

The encouragement of breast-feeding may seem 
a task beneath the notice of the eminent physician, 
surgeon, or obstetrician, like the advice to wash 
in Jordan to the haughty Syrian captain ; and yet 
if all mothers could nurse their babies the effect on 
infant mortality and the vigour of the race would 

95 



Infant and Young Child 

be enormous, and such diseases as infantile diar- 
rhoea and rickets would practically disappear. 

The results would be much more startling than 
anything that has been achieved by antitoxins, 
or by all the advances in abdominal surgery in 
recent years. 

The matter is therefore eminently worthy of 
attention. 

What is wanted at the medical schools is 
teachers who combine the experience and know- 
ledge of the doctor, the mother, and the monthly 
nurse. All maternity hospitals do not sufficiently 
impress on their students the importance of breast- 
feeding. I have recently heard of a " Twilight 
Sleep " home where " they were not keen on breast- 
feeding." 

Medical men who have given special attention 
to the matter find that a large proportion of the 
cases of alleged inability to breast-feed can be 
dealt with if the mother is in earnest. Thus 
difficulties due to depressed or sore nipples, or 
supposed scanty supply, can often be overcome by 
perseverance. 

I wish in this connection to refer especially to 
the work of Professor Budin,* of Paris, who has 
shown that the supply meets the demand if the 
proper stimulus is applied to the breast. 

This is where the difficulty of the medical man 
comes in. He cannot be always there to see if 
the nurse applies the proper stimulus by putting 

* See " The Nursling," by Pierre Budin, translated by W. J 
Maloney. 

9 6 



Management of the Baby 

the baby to the breast at the proper intervals, 
and he is more or less helpless when the nurse 
reports that there is no milk. 

We must bear in mind that the theory of the 
atrophy of the female breast is much more startling 
than anything that was brought out by the Com- 
mittee on Physical Deterioration, and should not 
be accepted without very complete proof. 

The first steps are to make breast-feeding 
fashionable, and to secure much more attention for 
this and other matters in connection with infant 
management in the medical schools. 

When this has been done we shall be in a better 
position for judging as to the facts with regard to 
this alleged physical deterioration. 

Let us leave off talking of high civilisation or 
culture in this connection. Let us give the thing 
its proper title, whether it be physical deterioration, 
decadence, or the demands of fashion. Each sex 
has its influence on the other. Women are sup- 
posed to admire athletic men, and no doubt the 
cult of athletics is encouraged thereby. Man is 
surely not going to adopt as his Queen of Beauty 
a sham Venus, with breasts only useful for giving 
a pleasing outline to her clothes. 

When the fashion is so changed that a woman 
who cannot nurse her own baby is looked upon as 
a poor thing or a cripple, to be pitied, we shall 
hear less of this " inability." 

It could not have been of this sort of woman 
that Napoleon thought when he exclaimed, " Oh, 
those English mothers ! " 
H 97 



Infant and Young Child 

Nor, again, Rudyard Kipling, when he penned 
his ode on the female of the species : 

" And to serve that single issue lest the generations 

fail, 

The female of the species must be deadlier than the 
male." 

The fact is, we want the mother to be more 
deadly ! 

Difficulties of breast-feeding. Of course, one 
recognises that there are difficulties sometimes 
in the management of breast-feeding, and these 
difficulties have been dealt with by many able 
writers, including Dr. Eric Pritchard, Dr. Truby 
King, Dr. H. Waller, Dr. H. R. Carter, Dr. F. 
Langmead, Dr. A. E. Naish, and Dr. Lucy Naish. 
I am very grateful to Dr. Lucy Naish for per- 
mission to publish as an Appendix to this book 
a paper of hers on this subject. 

Number of feeds. It may now be regarded as 
established that the baby thrives better if not fed 
so frequently as was at one time thought necessary. 
Instead of the old practice of feeding every two 
hours during the day and about every four hours 
during the night, all authorities agree that every 
three or four hours during the day from birth is 
sufficiently frequent, and that the baby should 
be allowed to sleep, if possible, for nine hours at 
night. This system is, of course, incomparably 
better for the mother, and lessens the strain on 
her. Weaning should be undertaken between the 
ninth and the twelfth month, and it is advisable 

98 



Management of the Baby 

not to wean during August and September, when 
the risk of the baby contracting diarrhoea is greatest. 
In some cases menstruation occurs fairly regularly 
during lactation, but this affords no reason what- 
ever for premature weaning. 

Cow's milk. If the unfortunate infant is denied 
its birthright and relegated to the cow, we are 
plunged into a sea of controversy as to what form 
of cow's milk to give. 

Some, like Budin, get satisfactory results with 
unmodified whole milk sterilised, others prefer 
cow's milk modified slightly or elaborately so as 
to imitate human milk. It seems probable that the 
trouble taken to adjust exactly the proportion of 
casein, milk sugar, and fat is not necessary, as 
human milk shows fairly wide variations in this 
respect. An extensive use of dried milk in Shef- 
field, even without any special trouble being taken 
to give fruit juice with it daily, seems to justify 
the statement that the theoretical objection to 
dried milk on account of the supposed reduction of 
vitamines is not borne out in practice. The pro- 
cess of desiccation certainly makes the casein 
more digestible and avoids the necessity for the 
extreme dilution of cow's milk so often adopted. 
Desiccation also, if it does not entirely kill all the 
tubercle bacilli there may be- in the milk, seems to 
attenuate them. 

Most authorities agree as to the need for ex- 
posing cow's milk to a sufficient heat to kill tubercle 
bacilli, but this may not be necessary if one can 
get fresh milk from cows guaranteed free from 

99 



Infant and Young Child 

tuberculosis by the tuberculin test when applied 
by a veterinary surgeon who knows all the facts. 
This is seldom possible, and it is extremely difficult 
to get reasonably clean and fresh milk in many 
parts of our great towns. 

Dried milk. The difficulty is so great, and the 
arrangements for the transportation of milk are so 
inadequate, that one begins to wonder if it would 
not be better to deal with the milk supply of the 
country as a whole and only permit " wet " milk 
to be supplied when it is produced near enough to 
the customer to be delivered twice a day in a fresh 
condition, and to have the whole of the milk in the 
outlying parts of the country collected by motor 
vans and taken to specially erected factories to be 
dried or condensed. I believe the evidence in the 
possession of the Government is to the effect that 
the cost of drying the milk and the ordinary cost 
of distribution by milk-cart are approximately equal. 
It seems to me better to have a reliable dried milk, 
prepared near the source of production, than the 
dirty, stale, wet milk brought from a distance by 
rail, which is often all that can be obtained in the 
central areas of our large cities. I have always 
been in favour of town cowsheds, because that is 
the only way in which townspeople can get fresh 
milk. The cooler is often a snare and a delusion, 
because the water is not cold enough and there 
is no ice, and further because the milk, losing a 
few degrees of temperature ; acquires an additional 
supply of dirt. 

The old superstition of feeding the baby from 

IOO 



Management of the Baby 

the milk of one cow without ascertaining if the 
one cow was the victim of tuberculosis of the 
udder is, I fancy, dead, and those who risk giving 
raw milk to infants and children prefer to give 
the mixed milk of a herd on the principle of 
diluting the infection and lessening the dose of 
living tubercle bacilli. 

Food after weaning. To return to the baby. 
A point upon which much stress is laid nowadays 
is that when the baby is weaned it should be taught 
to chew and given food that will exercise its jaws 
and teeth. Both dentists and doctors are now 
agreed that weaned babies and little children in the 
past have been given far too much " pappy " 
food. It is not the purpose of this book to attempt 
to deal with the details of infant management, and 
for these I must refer the reader to the many reliable 
guides on the subject which have been recently 
issued.* 

Like a grown-up person, a baby to be healthy 
requires not only suitable food, but fresh air, 
rest, exercise, warmth and cleanliness, and I pro- 
pose to touch on a few points with regard to these 
matters. 

Fresh air. A baby can get fresh air by being 
put outside the house in its pram from the time it 
is a few days old, in almost all weathers. The 
fact that it need not be wheeled about, and is, 

* E.g. " Feeding and Care of Baby," by Dr. F. Truby King ; 
" The Infant : Nutrition and Management," by Dr. Eric Pritchard ; 
and the pamphlet "To Wives and Mothers," published by the 
National League for Physical Education and Improvement. 



IOI 



Infant and Young Child 

in fact, better in a stationary than in a moving 
pram (however good its springs), is a great saving 
of time and labour for the mother. By beginning 
early the baby readily gets accustomed to sleeping 
by itself outside. I have heard serious discussions 
as to whether a baby was not more liable to catch 
cold in a stationary pram, the disputants appear- 
ing to forget that the sleeping baby goes through 
no " cabman " exercises to keep itself warm. Of 
course, a hot bottle in the pram is often necessary. 
The open-air treatment of consumption has killed 
the old idea about the deadliness of night air. 
Did the idea originate when malaria was prevalent 
in this country and was supposed to be caused 
by a miasma ? If there are no scavengers about, 
night air is probably more free from dust and 
purer than day air. At any rate, the baby can 
have fresh air at night by the window being left 
open. 

Sleep. As regards sleep, one of our difficulties 
is to persuade some mothers that a baby should 
sleep in a cot or cradle by itself night and day from 
birth. The danger of overlying may be small if 
the mother is temperate, but a baby undoubtedly 
gets worse air if it is in bed with a grown-up person 
and liable to be buried under the clothes. 

Posture. A common mistake is to take babies 
out strapped up in go-carts or mail-carts long before 
their backs are strong enough. They should never 
be made to sit up, but only allowed to do so when 
they insist upon it. 

Exercise. A baby gets its exercise chiefly by 
1 02 



Management of the Baby 

lying on its back and kicking. Unlike a grown-up 
person and a bottle-fed baby, the breast-fed baby 
gets a good deal of exercise when it is having its 
meals by twisting itself about and working its limbs 
and fingers and toes. Another form of exercise 
which a baby thoroughly enjoys from a few weeks 
old is kicking in a big bath. 

There would not be much rickets if all babies 
were breast-fed, had plenty of fresh air and exer- 
cise, and had proper food after being weaned at 
the right time. 

Clothing. A baby needs warm, loose clothes 
which will not restrict its movements. One still 
sees the tight binder used, as if Nature has done her 
work so badly that the body needs to be held 
together, and it is not realised that the binder is 
only needed to keep the navel dressing on. 

Money is often wasted by parents who cannot 
spare it on long clothes, the process of shortening 
being regarded as a kind of semi-religious ceremony. 

The arms and legs of a baby are often too much 
exposed, and one sees them taken straight from a 
warm cot and dangerously exposed at the open 
door. It is very important not to expose a baby's 
skin to sudden changes of temperature. 

Cleanliness. Cleanliness is the best protection 
against diarrhoea cleanliness as regards the baby's 
body, napkins, and clothes, cleanliness in the pre- 
paration of its food. The dummy teat not only 
deforms the mouth and nose and leads to adenoids, 
it is also a fruitful source of dirt infections. The 
dummy teat dies hard, and it will need all the 

103 



Infant and Young Child 

efforts of Anti-Dummy Leagues to kill it. Until 
quite recently it was the invariable practice of 
some monthly nurses in quite " good practices " 
to teach their charges the use of the dummy by 
smearing it with treacle or other delectable. 

Old wives' fables. The management of the 
infant having been until recent years in the hands 
of untrained women, it is not surprising that a large 
number of superstitions and customs have arisen 
in connection with childbirth and infancy. Some 
examples of these superstitions may be worth 
recording. 

Birthmarks are often supposed to take the 
shape of something which the mother desired 
when she was pregnant, or to be the result of some 
incident of the mother's pregnancy. This latter 
idea has been brought up to date. Cases of oph- 
thalmia neonatorum are attributed to the strain 
on the mother's eyes caused by attendance at 
picture palaces ! 

If the baby cries apparently without reason, 
it is thought to be due to the fact that the mother, 
when pregnant, had some desire which she could 
not gratify. The baby is therefore tested with 
all sorts of articles of food or drink which the 
mother remembers she desired and did not obtain 
during her pregnancy. 

It used to be believed that mother's milk and 
cow's milk did not agree, and that the baby could 
not be fed on both. 

It was supposed to be unlucky to weigh a baby 
before it was twelve months old. 

104 



Management of the Baby 

Wiping out the baby's mouth with its own wet 
napkin was supposed to be a cure for thrush. 

It is considered dangerous to cut a baby's 
nails during the first year of life. They should be 
bitten ! If you cut the baby's finger-nails it will 
be a thief, and when the time comes to cut them 
the toe-nails should also be cut, so that it may 
be able to run away. 

Children born with teeth will be either drowned 
or hanged. 

Other superstitions are that the mother must 
get out of bed on the ninth day, even if she has 
to go back to bed and stay there for several days 
afterwards ; that if, after the child is born, the 
mother goes to sleep before passing water, she will 
die in her sleep ; and that if a woman is one of 
twins she cannot have children of her own. 

So much for old wives' tales ! 

The practice of squeezing the breasts of the 
newly born infant used to be very prevalent. At 
least two midwives have assured me that they 
were taught to do this as a matter of routine by 
the Sister at the Lying-in Hospital where they were 
trained. This is another example of the small 
attention given in the past to the needs of the 
infant by the obstetrical staffs of such hospitals. 

Another custom which has been responsible for 
much harm in the past is the giving of a dose of 
castor oil to the newly born infant, from the mis- 
taken idea that the meconium (as the greeny-black 
substance in the baby's bowels at birth is called) 
needs to be forcibly cleared out by an aperient. 

I0 5 



Infant and Young Child 

The whole question of constipation in infancy has 
been much simplified by the introduction of paraffin 
oil as an internal lubricant for the bowels. 

Ophthalmia neonatorum. This disease still 
does not receive the prompt special treatment 
which it requires. The cases occurring in the prac- 
tice of midwives come promptly under the treat- 
ment of the ophthalmic surgeon, but it is in the 
confinements attended by medical practitioners 
where the chief failures occur. This is an example 
of defective " team work." A practitioner who is 
not accustomed to handle such cases may under- 
take the treatment, the home nursing facilities 
may be inadequate, and as a result the case fre- 
quently only comes to the ophthalmic surgeon 
when irreparable damage to the eye has been done. 
Ophthalmic surgeons agree that with prompt skilled 
treatment applied at once no eyes should be lost 
and few damaged from this cause. 

Dr. Sydney Stephenson, in a lecture delivered 
under the auspices of the National Association for 
the Prevention of Infant Mortality, points out that 
if simple precautions, such as are recommended by 
the Central Midwives Board, were adopted at 
birth the disease would be prevented in ninety-nine 
cases out of a hundred, and he estimates that the 
maintenance of persons blinded by ophthalmia 
neonatorum in these islands costs the community 
350,000 per annum. 

Mistakes of the past. Owing to the lack of 
knowledge on the subject of infant management, 
advice which is now regarded as bad has in the 

106 



Management of the Baby 

past been distributed officially by Medical Officers 
of Health in leaflets. For instance, we used to 
recommend the baby being fed every two hours 
during the day and every four hours at night from 
birth, and to exhibit posters showing the size of 
the baby's stomach at birth in support of this 
frequent feeding. It was also customary to recom- 
mend the " wiping out " of the baby's mouth. 
This is now regarded as a pernicious practice and 
one of the causes of thrush, the very ailment it was 
intended to prevent. A third common error in 
advice leaflets was to recommend much too 
" mushy " a dietary after weaning, and to dis- 
regard the need for giving the jaws and teeth 
something to do. 

Protection from infectious disease. A great 
deal more might be done to protect babies from 
the ordinary Infectious diseases. Mothers fre- 
quently display the most blameworthy negligence 
in carrying their babies into infected households. 
They seem to adopt a fatalistic attitude of mind 
in the matter. Whooping-cough is most fatal in 
the first year of life, measles in the second, and 
it cannot be urged too strongly that the longer 
an attack of infectious disease is postponed the 
better is the child's chance of recovery. 

Town life. Great advances have been made in 
the last fifteen years in investigating the exact 
method in which the evils incidental to town life 
operate injuriously on infants. Apart from ante- 
natal influences, the chief causes of death are still 
diarrhceal diseases, pneumonia, and bronchitis, and 

107 



Infant and Young Child 

we must all of us be convinced that if we could 
secure for each baby the " simple life " which it 
needs, infant mortality would soon be reduced 
to half its present figure. If it gets the first great 
essential its mother's milk, the other needs, 
namely, fresh air, rest, warmth, exercise, and 
cleanliness, ought to be easily obtained. 



1 08 



CHAPTER VIII 
Management of the Ex-Baby 

THE end of the first year of life marks an epoch 
in several respects. The fact that the baby is 
beginning to speak and is therefore no longer an 
infant in the strict sense of the word is not the 
most important development from the health 
point of view. 

It has just passed the only period of life during 
which it can be supplied with absolutely clean 
food, its mother's milk, and will now have to eat 
its peck of dirt with the rest of us. Whether it will 
get more than its peck depends upon the care 
and intelligence of those whose duty it is to pre- 
pare the food. It also needs food which it will 
have to chew. 

Its exercise will no longer be taken by kicking 
on its back or squirming and twisting at its mother's 
breast, and it will soon be able to walk into infec- 
tion instead of being carried into it. 

We have seen how the breast-fed infant flourishes, 
whether in the peasant home of Connaught, the 
" black house " of the Hebrides, or the slums of 
our large cities, but when we come to consider 
the fortunes of the child from I to 5 years of age 
we find that he has no amulet to enable him to resist 
adverse sanitary and social conditions. 

109 



Infant and Young Child 

The ex-baby, like the infant, still needs proper 
food, fresh air, and exercise, rest, warmth, cleanli- 
ness, and protection from infection. Opinions will 
vary greatly as to which of these necessities is 
most often lacking and by being absent leads to 
disaster. 

Prolonged lactation. On the whole I should be 
inclined to think that in a large industrial town 
improper feeding is the item responsible for the 
most trouble. Sometimes lactation is prolonged 
into the second year under the mistaken idea that 
its continuance prevents conception. This is an 
unnecessary drain on the mother, and' certainly 
tends to weaken the child and to produce a 
liability to rickets. 

Irregular feeding. This is very common. At 
the end of the first year the infant should be fed 
four times in the twenty-four hours. Milk is often 
regarded as a drink, but is, of course, a food, and 
should not be given except at one of the four feeding 
times. In a month or two the baby will only need 
three meals in the day, like a grown-up, and should 
not be given anything to eat between those meals. 

Improper food. The food is often unsuitably 
chosen and badly prepared. For an improvement 
in this respect we must look to the efforts of Schools 
for Mothers, and more especially to the thorough 
training in domestic economy which is to be in- 
cluded in the educational curriculum of future 
mothers. 

Care of the teeth. The teeth are a matter of 
the greatest importance. On the one hand there 

no 



Management of the Ex-Baby 

must be a sufficiency of food that requires chew- 
ing and masticating, in order to secure the proper 
development of the jaw-bones and -muscles, and 
the proper blood-supply and nutrition of the teeth ; 
and on the other hand a look out must be kept 
to see that the child is not prevented from chewing 
or masticating by the presence of tender or decayed 
teeth. The Government grant is now available 
for Dental Clinics in connection with Maternity and 
Child Welfare Centres for both mother and child. 
The child must not only have food that it requires 
to chew, but it must be taught to chew. 

In order to prevent decay of the teeth an effort 
should be made to see that at the end of the meal 
the spaces between the child's teeth are not filled 
up with particles of starchy food, such as bread, 
biscuits, or milk puddings. A piece of apple and 
a drink of water help to cleanse the teeth, and the 
use of the tooth-brush after breakfast and after 
tea ought to be taught at an early age. The tooth- 
brush should be well washed after use and put 
where it can dry. It is not advisable to use too 
hard a brush, or to rub very vigorously, for fear 
of making the gums bleed or wearing away the 
enamel. 

Fresh air. Many doctors are of opinion that 
the requirement which the ex-baby most frequently 
lacks is fresh air. This is where a small garden plot 
attached to each house would come in a safe place 
where the toddlers can play. In infancy the baby 
can have its fresh air in the stationary pram, and 
the practice of putting it out to sleep should be 

in 



Infant and Young Child 

kept up as long as it is safe in the pram. After this 
it can be put out in a cradle to sleep, or in a bed 
close to the open window. It is difficult to see 
how a mother of, say, four children under six 
can see that they all get out enough, but fortunately 
the " mothering " instinct is present in both boys 
and girls, and, if there is a safe place for them to 
play, the three-year-old girl will act as mother to 
the eighteen-months-old baby, and the five-year- 
old boy will act as father to both. 

Fresh air at night is an easy matter if there 
are sufficient bedclothes. The bedroom window can 
then be open. 

Rest and sleep. Other doctors are of opinion 
that the thing from which the ex-baby most gener- 
ally suffers is lack of rest and sleep. Children under 
five years of age should sleep the clock round, and 
in addition they should have a sleep in the day- 
time during the second if not during the third 
year of life. It is wonderful what food, fresh 
air, and midday rest do for the older children at 
the Open-Air Recovery Schools. 

The child will not get the full benefit of fresh 
air and rest if it is a mouth-breather. Every 
effort must therefore be made to keep a fairway 
through the nose from birth. Mucus and dirt are 
apt to accumulate and block the nostrils, and 
must be gently removed by the mother with pointed 
pieces of cotton-wool moistened in water. To 
keep the nose clean is one of the most effective 
ways of preventing adenoids and promoting a 
healthy condition of the back of the throat. The 

112 



Management of the Ex-Baby 

child should be taught to blow its nose from the 
first, although it will not be able to do this very 
effectively for a year or two. The only way to 
prevent a child becoming a mouth-breather is to 
keep its nose clean. 

The success or failure of institutions estab- 
lished for looking after babies and ex-babies, such 
as Day Nurseries, Residential Nurseries, and Nursery 
Schools, depends upon whether they are able to 
provide food, fresh air, exercise, and rest; and 
there is no doubt that they all ought to give special 
attention to the toilet of the nose and the care of 
the teeth. The standard of institutions which take 
over responsibility for the care of other people's 
children must be the standard of the most careful 
and intelligent mother, and not simply care a 
grade better than the children might receive in 
an indifferent home. 

One of the hopes is that by the extension of 
the work of Child Welfare Centres to include 
children up to five years, fewer children will pre- 
sent themselves at school in a disabled condition. 

Some of the disabling ailments of school entrants 
are rickets, discharging ears, deafness, enlarged 
tonsils and adenoids, bad teeth, eye complaints 
such as blepharitis and squint, skin complaints 
such as impetigo, ringworm, and scabies, anaemia 
and malnutrition. 

Rickets. This affection most frequently shows 

itself between the sixth and the eighteenth months 

of life. Several causes are at work in producing it. 

Improper food comes first, and this is especially 

i 113 



Infant and Young Child 

helped by lack of fresh air, sunshine and exercise. 
We can say with certainty that if all babies were 
breast-fed, weaned at about the ninth month, given 
proper food after weaning, and ample fresh air, 
sunlight, and exercise, rickets would disappear. 

If rickets shows itself, the great thing is to 
consult a doctor before bony deformities have had 
time to develop. The warning signs are sweating 
about the head, especially at night, lateness in 
walking or in cutting teeth, flabby limbs, pot belly, 
fretfulness, troubled sleep, and enlarged joints. 

I can imagine no inquiry that would be more 
profitable to child welfare than a well-co-ordinated 
investigation into the causation of rickets and 
scurvy throughout these islands. Modern research 
tends to show that certain accessory food factors 
have to do with the causation of rickets and scurvy, 
and that bad teeth are a prominent symptom of 
both these conditions. Medical inspection of school 
children would give a valuable indication of the 
prevalence of rickets in the various parts of the 
country, if some uniformity of standard as to what 
constitutes a rickety deformity could be agreed 
upon. The inquiry would, of course, deal with 
such matters as the cause of the freedom from 
rickets enjoyed by the Jews and the absence of 
rickets in the West of Ireland and among the 
crofters of Lewis. Scurvy is much less common 
than rickets, but for each well-marked case of 
either disease there are hundreds of minor mani- 
festations which probably account for a large pro- 
portion of the deplorable dental conditions found 

114 



Management of the Ex-Baby 

among the population at all ages. It is therefore 
no exaggeration to say that rickets and scurvy 
are " key " diseases to a dietary which will enable 
children to develop into healthy men and women. 

Discharging ears and adenoids. These con- 
ditions are often associated. A child with deafness 
or a discharging ear should be taken to a doctor at 
once. There is an old superstition that it is danger- 
ous to stop the discharge, and that the child will 
" grow out of it." Nothing could be more dis- 
astrous than this idea. In many cases the child 
becomes permanently deaf, and neglected ear dis- 
charge is a frequent cause of death from brain dis- 
ease. There are few of the common ailments of 
childhood that more urgently call for prompt and 
skilled treatment than this. 

As regards prevention, the measures which are 
useful for preventing adenoids will remove the 
commonest cause of discharging ears, and if signs 
of adenoids are present they should be treated 
promptly before the ear has become affected. 

Bad teeth. The causes which lead to adenoids 
and bad teeth are largely similar. In this connec- 
tion I must return for a moment to the subject of 
breast-feeding. Dentists maintain that this is of 
the utmost importance for the development of good 
teeth, not only because the right food is provided 
thereby, but because the muscular action of the 
baby in munching and pulling at the nipple is 
much better for the development of the jaws than 
that involved in sucking at a bottle, however well 
the teat of the bottle is adapted to its purpose. 



Infant and Young Child 

They also maintain and doctors agree that the 
constant sucking at a dummy teat tends to deform 
the upper jaw and leads to there being less room 
for the teeth and less room for nose-breathing. 

After weaning the food must be such as needs 
mastication in order that the jaws may so develop 
as to give room for the teeth and a free passage 
for air through the nostrils. 

In addition to these common requirements, if 
adenoids are to be avoided care must be taken 
to remove mucous obstructions and preserve the 
fairway through the nose and to encourage nose 
breathing. A frequent discharge from the nose 
and an inability to say " jam " (the child with 
adenoids pronounces it " jab/' owing to the block- 
age of the nose) are among the signs that a child 
has adenoids which require treatment, often before 
earache and discharge from the ear develop. 

Blepharitis. Inflammation of the eyelids is a 
very common complaint among young children. 
The condition often dates from an attack of measles 
or scarlet fever, and may begin as conjunctivitis. 
It is commonly associated with dirty conditions 
in the home, and frequently with anaemia and mal- 
nutrition. An investigation made by Dr. Percival 
Hay, of Sheffield, among the elementary school 
children in 1913, showed that the disease had 
frequently begun during the pre-school age, and 
had persisted for many years. It is very important 
that prompt treatment should be secured, as the 
difficulty in effecting a cure is greatly increased if 
the disease has existed for a long time. 

116 



Management of the Ex-Baby 

Of course, any case of squint should receive 
the attention of the ophthalmic surgeon as soon 
as it is noticed, and not be left till the child begins 
its schooling. 

Skin affections. Impetigo is a common skin 
disease which is highly contagious, and begins as 
spots and blisters. It may result in the child's 
whole face being covered with scabs, and calls for 
prompt treatment. 

Scabies, or itch, and ringworm are two other 
common skin diseases which may arise in the 
pre-school age, and persist for a long time if treat- 
ment is not persevered with. 

The difficulty in all these cases of affections of 
ear, eye, nose, and skin is to get the treatment 
continued till a cure is effected. If the child is 
taken to the hospital there is no one to follow up 
the case at the home if the attendance of the patient 
ceases or is irregular. If the child has reached 
school age, this is where the School Clinic comes 
in : the school nurse visits the home to see that 
the treatment is continued. When cases such as 
these are discovered through the Maternity and 
Child Welfare Centre, the most convenient way 
of dealing with them is to have an arrangement 
by which the Centre pays the School Clinic to 
treat them and follow them up till a cure is effected. 

Infectious diseases. When we turn to the 
death-roll of the ex-baby we find that the chief 
change as compared with that of the infant is the 
disappearance of the developmental and wasting 
diseases (i.e. premature birth, congenital defects, 

117 



Infant and Young Child 

atrophy, debility and marasmus), which account 
for one-third of the deaths of infants, and the relative 
increase in importance of the specific infectious 
diseases, such as measles, diphtheria, scarlet fever, 
and tuberculosis, as causes of death. Bronchitis and 
pneumonia still bulk large in the death returns. 
Whooping-cough is most fatal in the first year of 
life, and this is not surprising when one thinks 
of the difficulty a small baby has in coping with 
paroxysms of coughing. Diarrhoea exacts a big 
toll in the second year of life, but its evil effects 
greatly lessen during the next three years. 

Measles is most fatal in the second year of 
life, and continues to cause nearly one-fifth of the 
total deaths during the next three years. 

Pneumonia and bronchitis cause about one-fifth 
of the total deaths throughout the first five years 
of life. 

Some valuable lessons may be learnt from these 
death-rates. It is obviously important that the 
mother should not carry her baby into the in- 
fection of whooping-cough, and yet this is quite 
often done. The longer an attack of whooping- 
cough or measles can be postponed, the less likely 
is it to prove fatal. 

Tuberculosis is very important both as a dis- 
abling disease and as a cause of death to children. 
During 1911-14 tuberculosis in England and Wales 
caused 2.9 per cent, of the deaths under i year of 
age, 8.6 per cent, of those in the second year of life, 
and 12.6 per cent, of the deaths occurring at the age- 
period 2-5. Babies are born free from infection, 

118 



Management of the Ex-Baby 

but the percentage of babies infected rises rapidly 
during each month of the first year of life and 
during each of the subsequent years of ex-baby- 
hood. 

General tuberculosis, tubercular meningitis, and 
abdominal tuberculosis are the most fatal forms of 
this disease, while tuberculosis of the hip, knee, and 
spine are the commonest causes of disablement. 

Bad home conditions lessen the powers of re- 
sistance, but will not cause the disease without 
infection by the tubercle bacillus. The infection 
by the tubercle bacillus comes from one of two 
sources, either from a sufferer from tuberculosis, 
generally living in the home with the child, or 
from drinking the milk of a cow affected with 
tuberculosis of the udder. This condition is quite 
common among cows, and any herd of a hundred 
cows will on an average produce one case of tuber- 
culosis of the udder every year. 

A large proportion of tuberculosis of the abdomen 
and glands in children and a considerable propor- 
tion of the tuberculous meningitis and tuberculosis 
of the bones and joints is caused by the bovine 
tubercle bacillus as the result of drinking the milk 
of infected cows. There has never been any well 
conceived attempt made in this country to diminish 
the amount of cattle tuberculosis, probably owing 
to the fact that the matter has been in the hands 
of two Government Departments. It has been 
the business of the Local Government Board to 
attack the cow and the duty of the Board of Agri- 
culture to defend it. 

119 



Infant and Young Child 

However, there is no doubt that if all milk 
were boiled or sterilised before being given to 
children, this source of infection would be cut 
off, and there would then only remain the unpleasant 
idea of drinking milk from a cow with a tuberculous 
abscess of the udder, fortunately camouflaged, as 
a rule, by being mixed with the milk of a number 
of healthy cows. 

There can be little doubt that the human source 
of tuberculous infection is incomparably the more 
important. It is one of the objects of Tuberculosis 
Dispensaries to teach the infectious human con- 
sumptive, by occupying a separate bedroom, by 
the cult of the open window, and by the collection 
and destruction of the infectious sputum, to live 
in such a way that he may not endanger the health 
of the other members of his family. This is a 
difficult problem in any case, and has been rendered 
much more difficult by the War. There is the 
scarcity of hospital accommodation for the ad- 
vanced consumptive whose home conditions are 
bad, and there is the scarcity of house accommoda- 
tion which prohibits the consumptive who is able 
and willing to pay for it from having a bedroom 
to himself. There are a few wilfully negligent 
consumptives in whose cases, in the interests of 
the wife and children, compulsory powers for 
removal to and detention in hospital are 
needed. 

Clothing. The clothes of the ex-baby should 
be warm, light, and loose. Children are usually 
dressed with a view to the gratification of their 

120 



Management of the Ex-Baby 

mother's artistic sense rather than from the point 
of view of their own comfort and health. 

In choosing clothes one should consider first 
the health and comfort of the child, and aesthetic 
considerations should come in afterwards a long 
way afterwards. 

Every effort should be made to encourage the 
use of woollen garments in preference to flannelette. 
Deaths of children from burns now make up nearly 
2\ per cent, of the total deaths under five years of 
age. The Registrar-General's figures show what 
an enormous increase has taken place in this cause 
of death since the introduction of flannelette. In 
his Report for 1916 he shows that, as a rule, more 
deaths from accidents occur among boys than 
girls, apparently owing to the greater spirit of 
adventure in boys, but that deaths from burns 
present exceptional features. For the first three 
years of life more boys die from burns than girls ; 
during the fourth year the mortality is about 
equal. During the fifth year the boys' mortality 
is only two- thirds of the girls'. During the age- 
period 5-10 the boys' mortality is only one-third 
of the girls', and during the age-period 10-15 it 
is further reduced to less than one-fifth. On the 
other hand, deaths by drowning are always, at 
every age, except the first year of life, many times 
more frequent among boys than girls. The Regis- 
trar-General's inference is that so long as both 
sexes are dressed alike in petticoats they are 
equally liable to death from burns, but that after 
four years of age, when the boys have been put 

121 



Infant and Young Child 

into knickers, their liability to death from burns is 
in consequence greatly reduced. 

Why not put both sexes into jerseys and knickers 
from the second year onwards and give them an 
equal chance of escaping being burnt ? The ex- 
baby may surely have the benefit of the progress 
in rational dressing brought about by the War 
without offending anyone's idea of modesty. 

Death-rate of children. The comparative death- 
rates under five years from measles, whooping- 
cough, bronchitis, and pneumonia are a safe guide 
as to whether the social and sanitary conditions of 
a town are good or bad for children. Sir Arthur 
Newsholme, in the Supplement to the 45th Annual 
Report of the Local Government Board, gives a 
valuable table showing these death-rates for all 
the great towns, and also another interesting table 
for all the great towns showing the death-rates 
under i, from i to 2, and from 2 to 5 years of age. 
This shows that some towns improve their position 
after the first year, while others are notably worse 
for children after infancy. 

Bradford is one of the large industrial towns 
which have a better position as regards death-rate 
during the second and subsequent years than during 
infancy, which seems to justify the deduction that 
the efforts of the Bradford Corporation, already 
referred to, are more effective when they no longer 
have to struggle against the failure to breast- 
feed. On the other hand, Sheffield, Manchester, 
Liverpool, Salford, Rotherham, and Newcastle-on- 
Tyne are examples of towns which occupy a worse 

122 



Management of the Ex-Baby 

position for the second and subsequent years than 
they hold for the first. 

It would be difficult to say which of the various 
causes is most responsible for this heavy mortality 
at ages from one to five ; it is usually several causes 
acting together that constitute what we call bad 
home conditions. 

Thus, a child with its powers of resistance 
already weakened by unsuitable food and want of 
rest is attacked by measles or pneumonia. The 
bedclothes are insufficient, and it cannot be kept 
warm and have a well-ventilated bedroom at the 
same time, and the mother has had no education 
in invalid cookery. One might multiply hypo- 
thetical cases. The prime essentials, food, fresh 
air, rest, warmth, and cleanliness, all dovetail into 
one another. 

At Sheffield we notice that many of the children 
attending our Centre do worse in the second year 
than they did in the first. I have discussed this 
matter with the staff, and the following are some 
of the causes which seem to operate in producing 
this effect. 

The two-year-old may get less attention be- 
cause the mother is pregnant or because another 
baby has arrived. He may be fed irregularly, get- 
ting a bit of bread instead of a meal, or food in 
between meals, and an inadequate quantity of 
milk. In some cases the ex-baby suffers from 
lactation being prolonged into the second year. 
Rest is not insisted upon during the day as among 
the middle classes. Once the child can run about, 

123 



Infant and Young Child 

it is allowed to do so until it either falls asleep from 
fatigue or becomes so fretful and peevish that the 
mother takes it up and puts it to sleep. Speaking 
generally, the children are not so well clad during 
the second year. Inadequate clothing in the first 
year is to some extent compensated by the baby 
being carried in its mother's arms and getting 
warmth from her body. When the child begins to 
run about, napkins are discarded, and it is a common 
practice for the mother, in order to save washing, 
to pin up the petticoats round its waist, leaving 
the legs and buttocks quite bare. The toddler, of 
course, has more opportunities of picking up dirt. 
During the second year, again, the child is more 
likely to suffer from digestive troubles in connection 
with the cutting of the molars, and it is also more 
liable to suffer from most of the infectious diseases. 

The protection of little children from infection 
is very difficult if the common yard or court system is 
in vogue. It is important, therefore, that there should 
be a self-contained yard or garden to each house. 

The diagram on p. 89 shows what an enormous 
and steady reduction (about 60 per cent.) in the 
death-rate of the ex-baby has been accomplished 
since 1860. But we who know the causes of death 
and the conditions in our big towns must feel con- 
vinced that further improvements in social and 
sanitary conditions could quite easily further 
reduce even the present death-rates by one-half. 

Education. Lastly, one cannot deal with the 
physical welfare of children apart from their mental 
and moral welfare. The education of a child begins 

124 



Management of the Ex-Baby 

directly it is born, and we must see that its educa- 
tion is really education, that is, bringing out the 
good points, rather than a system of repression by 
everlasting " don'ts." The better educated and 
less harassed mother of the future, with a home 
equipped with labour-saving appliances, will have 
more opportunity for attending to the training 
of her children. The doctrine of original sin and 
the essential " naughtiness " of children has been 
responsible for a great deal of harm in the up- 
bringing of children in the past. 

The paragraphs on discipline and character 
training in the booklet " To Wives and Mothers/' 
published by the National League for Physical 
Education and Improvement, are so excellent that 
I copy them in full. 

DISCIPLINE 

The good mother makes her child obey her without 
question, never goes back from her word, or argues 
the point. Do not " wheedle " or " nag," or let the 
child think you are in doubt, for even the youngest 
baby will take advantage of a weak mother. Children 
are highly imitative ; therefore, do not deceive them 
or tell a lie, or they will do the same to you. The 
strictest parents are the best beloved, if only they are 
just. Do not frighten children into obedience by 
foolish tales of " bogies," or by threatening to tell the 
doctor or fetch the policeman ; and do not punish 
them by boxing their ears or by putting them into 
the dark, as the child may dread the hour of bedtime 
for years afterwards, and thus permanently damage 
the nervous system. 

125 



Infant and Young Child 

CHARACTER TRAINING 

It is important to feed and clothe children in the 
best possible way. But it is much more important 
to train their characters in the best way. 

Why do we especially want to train children well ? 

1. To build up in them strong and noble characters. 

2. To make them fit to face life. 

Mothers should begin to train their babies as early 
as possible. No baby is too young to know whether 
he can manage his mother, or whether his mother can 
manage him. Teach a baby at once that he will not 
get all he wants because he cries for it. A little crying 
will not hurt him, but to give him everything he cries 
for will hurt him very much. It will make his character 
weak, undisciplined, self-willed, uncontrolled. 

The child's mind grows with his body, and as the 
one needs right conditions, so does the other, or it will 
be stunted. 

How can we train and educate the mind and thus 
influence the character ? To do this, we should inter- 
fere as little as possible with Nature's methods. A 
baby has great power of concentration ; he will look 
steadily at one thing for a long time. He will make a 
movement over and over again until he can control it. 
He should be left undisturbed ; he should not be spoken 
to only for the sake of seeing him smile. Excepting 
during his regular occupations his meals, sleep, and 
going out he should not be disturbed when he is 
absorbed. When awake in his cot he should be able 
to see what is going on around him. This will always 
be enough to occupy him. As he gets older he should 
be taught to occupy himself, not to want constant 
attention from his mother. He will be much happier 

126 



Management of the Ex-Baby 

and much less trouble if he can occupy himself, but 
he will never learn to do it if he is taken up and amused 
whenever he cries. To help him to gain a habit of 
self-occupation is to help to educate his mind and 
character. 

A baby's mental business is to learn all he can 
about the world in which he lives, and he does not 
like to be interrupted whilst learning. Do not speak 
to a child unnecessarily when he is absorbed and good. 

We learn and grow by trying and succeeding. There- 
fore, unless it is hurtful to himself or to others, do not 
prevent a child from doing what he can for himself, 
thus teaching him self-reliance. 

One morning a child of 2j came to breakfast. 
There were many delightful things he wished to do. 
He would climb on to his high chair, unfold his feeder, 
and painfully tie the tapes round his neck in front, 
and then turn the feeder round ! He would take a 
spoon and crack his own egg. But instead of letting 
him do all these things, and so gradually learn how to 
do them, a grown-up rushed at him, tied his feeder 
and broke his egg, and he broke into a howl of dis- 
appointment. 

Too often, out of mistaken kindness, people thwart 
a child when he tries, and enjoys trying, to attain his 
end by himself. 

Do not indulge children. It makes them soft and 
selfish. 

Do not nag or be harsh to them. You may make 
them cowardly and deceitful. 

Always be gentle, but always be firm. 

Let your yes be yes, your no, no. Never shake 
children or box their ears or frighten them. 

Moral education helps children to learn self-control ; 
127 



Infant and Young Child 

and remember you want to make them fit to go out 
into life, where they will need a great deal of self- 
control, where they will not find everything made easy 
for them, where they will not be spoilt and get every- 
thing they want. Regularity in good habits when 
children are small is a very important part of moral 
education, because through good habits a child learns 
to make a right choice, to choose the good and refuse 
the evil. 

Let him hear only kind words and pleasant voices. 
Let that to which he is accustomed be right, that to 
which he is unaccustomed be wrong. If he is never 
told to do unreasonable things he will see that obedience 
to the reasonable actions he is asked to do is right ; 
and he will be more likely to refuse wrong when it comes 
his way. 

Some day he will certainly have to choose between 
right and wrong. He can only choose rightly if he 
knows the meaning of right-doing. And whilst he 
is small this knowledge comes through good habits, 
and trust in the kindness of those he loves best. The 
first time he makes a good choice he shows control 
over his will. 

Therefore teach children from the very beginning : 

1. How to be obedient. 

2. How to be self-controlled. 

3. How to be unselfish. 

4. How to be pure. 

5. How to be truthful. 

Teach them to be unselfish by encouraging them 
to do things for you and for others ; by making them 
think of other people first, not of themselves first. Do 
not always slave for them, but show them how they 

128 



Management of the Ex-Baby 

can help you. A mother often makes her children 
selfish by doing everything for them, and saving them 
trouble. That mother is not really a good mother. 
A good mother thinks chiefly of what is best for 
her children's characters, not of what is easiest and 
pleasantest for them. 

To cultivate and practise good habits, bodily, 
mental, and moral, is to build up a great and good 
character, and the famous old saying bears this out : 

" Sow an action, you reap a habit. 
Sow a habit, you reap a character." 

Therefore teach your children to do right actions 
over and over again, until the right actions become 
habits, and the habits are built into a character. 



129 



CHAPTER IX 
Institutions to help the Mother 

FIRST and foremost among these institutions comes 
the Maternity and Child Welfare Centre. Some 
of these Centres have sprung up as voluntary in- 
stitutions supported by subscriptions, others have 
been from the beginning municipal institutions. 
These pioneer institutions have done splendid work 
in showing what is needed and in preparing the 
way for complete schemes under the Maternity and 
Child Welfare Act of 1918. 

The Local Government Board's circular of 
August, 1918, gives the following list of additional 
services for which the Government grant is now 
available : 

Hospital treatment for children up to five years 
of age. 

Lying-in homes. 

Home helps. 

The provision of food for expectant and nursing 
mothers, and for children under five years of 
age, 

Creches and Day Nurseries. 

Convalescent Homes. 

Homes for the children of widowed and de- 
serted mothers and for illegitimate children. 
130 



Institutions to Help the Mother 

Experimental work for the health of expectant 
and nursing mothers, and of infants and 
children under five years of age. 

The same circular states why the comprehensive 
schemes should, as a rule/ 1 be prepared by the 
Councils of Counties and County Boroughs : 

" The Councils of counties and county boroughs 
are the local supervising authorities under the Mid- 
wives Act, 1902, and they are also entrusted with the 
initiation and execution of schemes for the treatment 
of tuberculosis ; if the organisation of a maternity 
and infant welfare scheme is also undertaken by them, 
it will be practicable to secure the unification of home 
visiting for a number of different purposes." 

I should like to refer to a few points with regard 
to the component parts of a complete scheme. 

The primary object of the Centre is to provide 
skilled advice for mothers with regard to their 
own health and that of their children, and to secure 
early treatment in the case of ailments affecting 
either mother or child, and in this way carry back 
the medical supervision which is exercised in the 
schools not only to the pre-school age and infancy, 
but also to the ante-natal period. 

As in the case of the School Medical Depart- 
ment, the searching out of ailments is of no use 
unless the ailments are treated, and the need for 
a reconstruction of the]Medical Service by which 
there is secured a family doctor for each family is 
evident. In the meantime, arrangements can gener- 
is* 



Infant and Young Child 

ally be made with hospitals for the treatment of 
mothers and children who cannot afford to pay a 
doctor, or with the School Clinic in the case of 
special ailments such as those of the skin, eye, teeth, 
ear, and nose. 

The staff of the Centre consists of the medical 
staff and the women sanitary inspectors or health 
visitors, and may also include voluntary unpaid 
workers interested in the scheme, who, to quote 
the circular of the Local Government Board, " can 
be of great assistance in weighing babies, in enter- 
taining the mothers, and in giving instruction in 
elementary hygiene, cookery, sewing, etc." 

Health visitors and women sanitary inspectors. 
There has been a good deal of discussion lately 
as to the qualifications and training of women 
sanitary inspectors or health visitors. 

We must freely admit that health visitors 
and women sanitary inspectors have to learn their 
work after appointment, unless they have had the 
opportunity of going through a stage of pupilage 
or apprenticeship in an already established Centre. 
Are we not involved in a discussion similar to that 
which took place when the old practitioners re- 
garded with scorn the newly-fledged medico who 
had never been apprenticed ? 

There is a difference in this respect, that the 
modern medical student, in addition to acquiring 
knowledge by " looking on," reading, and attend- 
ing lectures, is also trained to do practical work 
under supervision in the dissecting room, the 
laboratory, and the hospital. 

132 



Institutions to Help the Mother 

Hospital nurses and midwives are also trained. 
On the other hand, speaking broadly, sanitary 
inspectors and health visitors acquire knowledge 
by " looking on/' reading, and attending lectures, 
without being trained ; that is to say, without doing 
practical work under supervision. The possessor 
of a University degree requires to be trained before 
becoming a teacher. The woman who has acquired 
useful knowledge and been trained as a hospital 
nurse and a midwife needs to be trained as a health 
visitor. Every hospital nurse will not make a 
good health visitor, but, given a suitable woman, 
hospital training, with a considerable portion of 
the time spent in children's wards, must be in- 
valuable to her in dealing with children. Some 
knowledge of disease must be useful to a health 
visitor as well as to a Medical Officer of Health, 
provided we do not go to the other extreme and 
assume that nothing else is required. Most health 
visitors are single women, and the qualification of 
a hospital nurse is one for which the mothers of 
children, who are apt to look with scorn on the 
advice of unmarried women, have some respect. 
Up to the present no system of training has been 
devised which competes with that of the hospital 
nurse. The health visitor receives her training as 
such after appointment, but the hospital training 
makes a good foundation to build upon. One pre- 
fers, of course, to secure a hospital nurse who is 
receptive of new ideas and has not spent half her 
working lifetime in an institution. 

Another important point is the avoidance of 



Infant and Young Child 

overlapping and the overvisiting of the homes. 
In Sheffield we have adopted the practice of ap- 
pointing as health visitors women who are qualified 
as hospital nurses and midwives, and of expecting 
them to obtain the sanitary inspector's qualifica- 
tion within a reasonable time of appointment. 
We do not want the same home visited by a number 
of different women, such as the woman sanitary 
inspector, the health visitor, the tuberculosis in- 
spector, the measles inspector, and the inspector 
of midwives. In Sheffield the woman sanitary 
inspector acts as health visitor and assistant in- 
spector of midwives, and also visits measles and 
tuberculosis cases. In a smaller town, I think, 
the woman sanitary inspector might also act as 
school nurse, and perhaps as school attendance 
officer. The Sheffield inspectors do not undertake 
district nursing, but work in co-operation with the 
Queen Victoria District Nurses. Quite apart from 
the avoidance of overlapping and overvisiting of 
the homes by different inspectors, I think it is a 
great mistake from the point of view of the in- 
spectors themselves to go in for over-specialisation 
and to restrict their work to a very narrow groove. 
If, in order to discharge these various duties, 
the inspector possesses the triple qualification of 
hospital nurse, midwife and sanitary inspector, she 
will, as a rule, be a woman of higher attainments 
than the midwives whom it is her duty to super- 
vise, a point upon which a good deal of stress has 
been laid lately. The chief inspector of midwives 
must, of course, be a medical practitioner (whether 



Institutions to Help the Mother 

the Medical Officer of Health or his duly qualified 
assistant), and the assistant inspectors must act 
under his directions. When difficulties arise, the 
midwives must be interviewed and advised by the 
medical inspector of midwives. 

A health visitor or woman sanitary inspector 
who has these varied duties can be given a com- 
pact district and become well known in it as the 
friend of the mothers and children, and she will 
also have no difficulty in working in friendly 
co-operation with the two or three midwives 
resident in her district. 

While I hold a strong opinion as to the value 
of a hospital nurse's training, I quite appreciate the 
fact that, if we restrict our choice of women in- 
spectors to hospital nurses, we shall debar many 
suitable women from undertaking the work, and 
for that reason I hope it may be possible to arrange 
for a satisfactory course of real training which will 
be something more than acquiring knowledge by 
" looking on," reading, and attending lectures. 

When a Centre opens, most of the women who 
bring up their children for advice are those who 
are recommended to come by the women inspectors 
as the result of visiting the home after the notifica- 
tion of a birth. After a time a large number of 
the new mothers come, with a baby or child that 
is not thriving, on the recommendation of other 
mothers who have benefited, and a large number 
of new babies are brought by mothers whose earlier 
babies have profited by attendance at the Centre. 
According to Sheffield experience, the Ante-natal 



Infant and Young Child 

Clinic will only develop gradually, as it has not 
been customary for expectant mothers to consult 
a doctor unless they have had very good reason 
to suspect that something was wrong. The in- 
vestigation of the causes of stillbirths by the medical 
staff of the Centre will no doubt contribute to the 
increase of ante-natal work. 

The work of a Centre and the agencies which 
arise in connection with its work must vary with 
the circumstances of each district. Thus, the need 
for the provision of meals for expectant and nursing 
mothers will vary according to the prosperity of 
the district, and the need for the provision of 
Creches and Day Nurseries will depend upon the 
extent to which mothers are compelled to leave 
the home and go out to work. 

Day Nurseries. A considerable number of 
Day Nurseries were in existence before the War, 
and many new ones have been established during 
the War to meet the emergency caused by many 
mothers of little children going to work at muni- 
tion factories in response to their country's call. 
There is just the danger that Day Nurseries may 
come to be regarded as a legitimate part of a scheme 
of sanitary reform. The method and order of an 
institution appeal to some minds, and one reads 
glowing articles on State Creches as if they repre- 
sented the non plus ultra of progress. There is 
nothing new in the idea. Plato advocated com- 
munal nurseries, but he went further than most 
reformers because the nursing mothers of his 
Republic, when admitted to the State nurseries, 

136 



Institutions to Help the Mother 

were not allowed to know or suckle their own 
babies. I conjecture that Plato was a bachelor 
and failed to realise what is meant by " mothering." 
We cannot make an ideal of Day Nurseries. All the 
ideals of progress in child welfare must be centred 
round the mother and the home. The best Day 
Nursery can only be a makeshift to lessen the bad 
effect of mothers having to leave their little children, 
and in a really well organised community it should 
be made possible for every mother of little children 
to stay at home. Until that day comes we shall 
no doubt have Day Nurseries with us, but do not 
let us make the mistake of coming to regard them 
as things desirable in themselves. Their use almost 
inevitably leads to premature weaning, and is 
specially undesirable in the case of babies in the 
first year of life, when they are most helpless and 
most in need of mothering. 

Medical men who have special experience of 
children's diseases have a great fear of the bad 
effects of the aggregation of little children in in- 
stitutions, owing not only to the danger of the 
spread of the ordinary infectious diseases, but 
also to the danger of the spread of catarrhal in- 
fections causing many of the children to sink into 
a chronic state of poor health. In order to avoid 
this, when Day Nurseries are necessary they should 
be managed as far as possible on open-air lines, 
and there should be an adequate trained staff in 
order to ensure the children getting the full advan- 
tage of open-air conditions. There should also be 
paid medical supervision, and the Medical Super- 
's? 



Infant and Young Child 

intendent should inspect the babies at least once 
a week. A chart should be kept for each baby 
or child and its weight entered up from time to 
time, so as to record its progress or want of 
progress. 

The following recommendations were drawn up 
in 1917 jointly by the National Society of Day 
Nurseries and the National Association for the 
Prevention of Infant Mortality : 

(a) That the Nursery be approved as suitable 
for the accommodation of a definite number of 
children, and that no more be allowed. 

(b) That the Nursery be run, as far as possible, 
on open-air lines. 

(c) That there be an adequate trained staff, 
including a specially trained matron. 

(d) That weight and progress charts be kept of 
all children admitted to the Nursery in order to 
record their progress. The Inspector of the Depart- 
ment which gives the grant will then be able to 
see at a glance whether the children of the Nursery 
are thriving. 

(e) That there be paid medical supervision. 

(/) That no child be admitted to the Nursery 
until the home has been visited for the purpose 
of ascertaining the reason why the mother wishes 
to leave her child at the Nursery, and that such 
reason be recorded. 

(g) That special attention be given to prevent 
the total weaning of children under nine months. 

(h) That there be systematic attention given to 
the homes from which the children are brought, 

138 



Institutions to Help the Mother 

so as to secure continuity of feeding and care, 
especially in the case of infants. 

There was a further recommendation that every 
effort be made to ensure that the Nurseries be 
used as Centres for training in mothercraft. 

Many of these institutions have been supported 
by voluntary subscriptions, and owing to in- 
adequate funds have been unable to employ a 
sufficient staff. One of the effects of an insufficient 
staff is that the babies cannot be taken out during 
the day. Would any middle-class mother inter- 
ested in her baby's welfare send it for the day to 
be kept in a room with a lot of other babies ? 

What some mothers have to do. It is hardly 
possible to do much in the way of teaching the 
mothers who bring their babies to a nursery. The 
life of a mother who goes to work and takes her 
baby or children to a nursery does not leave much 
time for learning mothercraft, as the following 
diaries of mothers actually using the Sheffield Day 
Nursery will show : 

Mrs. A., a widow with two children, aged 6 years, 
and i year and 10 months. The elder attends school 
and is looked after by a neighbour. The younger is 
taken to the Day Nursery. Mrs. A. works at a factory 
from 8 A.M. to 5.30 P.M. 

Monday. Gets up at 6 A.M. Lights the fire and 
puts on the kettle, washes and dresses the two children. 
Gets the breakfast ready and has it with the children. 
Elder child then goes to the neighbour's. At 7.15 A.M. 
takes the younger child to the Day Nursery (distant 
about one mile, uphill). Has to walk, as the tram is 

139 



Infant and Young Child 

no advantage. At 8 A.M. arrives at work. Has dinner 
there. Leaves at 5.30 P.M., goes to Day Nursery for 
younger child. Arrives home at 6.15 P.M., lights fire. 
At 6.30 P.M. the elder child comes home, and the two 
play while Mrs. A. makes the beds. At 7 P.M. she 
gives the children their supper, at 8 P.M. " baths " the 
younger child, washes the elder, and puts them to bed. 
Then washes crockery and does mending. Supper at 
9.30, goes to bed at 10 P.M. 

The routine is the same on all days except the 
evenings, which vary as follows : 

Tuesday. Similar to Monday. 

Wednesday. Similar to Monday, except that after 
8 P.M. Mrs. A. cleans the shelves and steps of the cellar. 

Thursday. Similar to Monday, except that after 
8 P.M. she cleans the windows, cupboard shelves, fender 
and fire-irons. 

Friday. Same as Monday, except that after 8 P.M. 
she cleans the living-room, thoroughly washes floor, cleans 
step, dusts furniture, and makes all clean for Saturday. 

Saturday. Day Nursery not open. Leaves both 
children with neighbour. Goes to work from 7.30 A.M. 
to i P.M. Arrives home at 1.30 P.M. Gets dinner for 
herself and the children, and washes up. In the after- 
noon does her shopping. In the evening " baths " 
both children. 

Sunday. Gets up at 7 A.M. After breakfast cleans 
the bedroom and attic. Gets dinner, and washes up. 
Finishes cleaning upstairs. Finishes in time for tea. 

Inspector's note. " This is a very clean home, and 
the children are clean and tidy. Mrs. A. gets her 
washing done by a neighbour. She does not bake, but 
buys her bread. She buys all clothing ready-made, as 
she has not time to make clothes." 

140 



Institutions to Help the Mother 

Mrs. B. Her husband works away from Sheffield ; 
sometimes sends her money. Six children, ranging 
from 12 years to i year. 

Monday. Gets up 6.30 A.M. Gives the children 
breakfast, and gets the potatoes ready for boiling for 
dinner. Sends the school children to school. Takes 
two children to the Day Nursery, which is one mile 
distant, uphill, then goes to her work as a cabinet case 
coverer. She works only a few minutes' walk away 
from her home. She goes home at dinner-time for one 
hour. Gives the school children their dinner. Returns 
to work. A neighbour helps to give the children their 
tea. Mrs. B. returns from work at 6 P.M., and fetches 
the two children from the Day Nursery. Has a cup 
of tea, then brushes the Sunday clothes and puts them 
away. Mixes about three-quarters of a stone of flour 
and bakes bread. Prepares the dinner for the next 
day. Monday evening is a slack evening. 

Tuesday. Similar to Monday, except that in the 
evening she does the family washing and hangs the 
clothes on lines in the living-room to dry during the night. 

Wednesday. Similar to Monday, but before going 
out in the morning she takes down the dry clothes, 
folds them, and re-fills the lines with wet clothes. In 
the evening she folds, mangles, and irons all the clothes, 
and makes use of the hot fire necessary for the irons 
to bake ij stones of flour into bread. 

Thursday. Similar to Monday, except that in the 
evening she cleans the bedrooms. 

Friday. Similar to Monday, except that she re- 
turns from work at 7 P.M. She cleans the flues, black- 
leads the range, cleans the fender and fire-irons, cleans 
knives and forks, scrubs boards, cleans cellar steps, 
makes 14 Ib. of flour into bread, and bakes it. 

141 



Infant and Young Child 

Saturday. Day Nursery closed. Neighbour looks 
after baby. Mrs. B. comes home at i P.M. for the day. 
She cooks the dinner and washes up after it. Cleans 
the windows, and the floor of the living-room, gives the 
children tea and has it herself, goes out to do her 
shopping (meat, groceries, etc.) for the week-end. The 
children have baths on the Saturday night. 

Sunday. Gives the children breakfast and sends 
them to Sunday school. Prepares dinner (which also 
does for Monday cold). Tidies up the house and has 
a rest, by lying on the bed for the afternoon until the 
children come back from Sunday school. 

Note. The house has always been clean and the 
children well looked after. Mrs. B. has never been 
laid up since her marriage except for confinements, and 
has never had a bottle of medicine, and the children 
also have had good health and have troubled the doctor 
very little. She is thin, but thinks that " people are 
not killed by hard work." The set-pot is used once a 
week for .washing clothes, otherwise all hot water 
has to be heated in a saucepan or kettle over the 
fire. 

Day Nurseries without gardens. The follow- 
ing extract from the Carnegie Report on Scottish 
Mothers and Children, written by Sir W. Leslie 
Mackenzie, is of interest : 

" Of the Day Nurseries visited, some are well pro- 
vided with gardens ; others are gardenless. A day 
nursery without the means of placing the children in 
the open air, either on balconies or in gardens, is one 
of the least desirable of institutions. Of those visited, 
several were open to this criticism. But there is a 
criticism even more fundamental ; it has been found 

142 



Institutions to Help the Mother 

that, in many places, the ideal is to keep the young 
children sitting, correctly clothed, and still. As a 
means of generating rickets, nothing could be better. 
If there is one thing that the very young children 
need more than another it is constant activity of 
muscle. Anything that restricts the movement of a 
child is physiologically bad. The very young children 
do, of course, need much sleep ; but this is not the 
point criticised. The criticism is levelled against the 
care of the children emerging into the toddler state 
or actually arrived there. To be kept in a still room, 
sitting, or bored to death by the monotony, is the least 
and worst service that any child can receive. Un- 
fortunately, few Day Nurseries without access to the 
open air, either by balcony or otherwise, can provide 
the necessary stimulus. With fair justice, it has been 
said of these closed nurseries that if the children could 
be kept from being run over they would be better in 
the gutter. It is necessary to put this point forcibly, 
because our inspection proves that the cleanliness, 
quietness, prettiness, and cosmetic effects generally 
are apt to take the first place in the minds of 
the attendants ; the children's physiological demands 
for activity tend to take the second place. Wher- 
ever the conditions made it possible to keep the 
children in the light and under the stimulus of fresh 
air, the whole spirit of the nursery service was 
different. 

" The conditions criticised flow less from a want of 
will than from a want of knowledge. It is not fully 
recognised that all children require opportunities for 
action. As they emerge into the walking stage, the 
opportunities for action become imperative. The still 
nursery is then an anachronism. The real need is a 
constantly varied field of activity." 

M3 



Infant and Young Child 

The " toddler's playground." Sir Leslie Mac- 
kenzie goes on to commend " toddlers' playgrounds " 
as a relief for the overburdened mother and a 
tonic for the badly housed child. He speaks 
very highly of the success of the experiment in 
Edinburgh, and quotes Dr Brownlee's opinion 
" that children are most depressed by unhealthy 
surroundings between the ages of two and 
three." 

The playground in Edinburgh is managed by 
the health visitors, and these are the conditions 
for admission : 

" First, there must be a baby at home needing 
nursing ; second, the mother must undertake to pre- 
pare the school children properly for school and to 
prepare the toddler for transference to the play- 
ground ; third, she must maintain a reasonable standard 
of tidiness in the home. With the school children at 
the school and the toddler in his superintended play- 
ground the mother is enabled to attend both to her 
baby and to the preparation of the mid-day meal. 
In time for the mid-day meal the toddler is taken 
home, and has the rest of the day to look forward to 
his next visit to the playground. The equipment of 
the playground is of the simplest : sufficient open 
space, with the usual infant properties of sand, rocking 
horse, etc., and an open-air shelter for the rainy days. 
Even in the conditions of our Edinburgh climate, the 
experiment has succeeded in every respect. The 
homes are stimulated to maintain a better standard, 
the mother's energies are economised, the baby receives 
more attention, the toddler has improved, not merely in 
habits, but materially in health." 

144 



Institutions to Help the Mother 

For further particulars of this interesting ex- 
periment I must refer the reader to the Scottish 
Carnegie Report. 

Factory Creches have been established both 
in France and in this country with the object of 
allowing the mother working at the factory to 
continue bi"-*lst-f ceding her baby. These again are 
open to the objection that the home-maker is taken 
out of the home, and there may be other insuper- 
able difficulties to their establishment. 

As the result of a discussion with the welfare 
workers, it was deemed impossible to establish a 
Factory Creche in Sheffield. The times of the 
shifts were the first difficulty. At some of the 
works there were three shifts in the day, at others 
two, at others one, and at others shifts varying 
every day. The transport of the children in the 
already overcrowded trams was another difficulty. 
The welfare workers also considered that the 
atmosphere and noise of the works made them un- 
suitable places for creches, and, further, that much 
of the work was unsuitable for nursing mothers. 

In Sheffield, in normal times, very few mothers 
of little children are forced to go out to work, 
and even during the War our women inspectors 
did not come across many cases where children 
of munition workers suffered owing to the neglect 
of the neighbour or relative in whose charge they 
had been left. The children in Sheffield who were 
neglected during the War were the children of 
mothers who were not at work, who had acquired 
drinking habits before the War, and who had 
K 145 



Infant and Young Child 

more money and leisure at their disposal than 
usual owing to their husbands being on active 
service. Unless the Day Nursery is an open-air 
one and run on quite first-class lines I have no 
hesitation in saying that it is better for the babies 
to be left in the charge of a relative or friend while 
the mother is at work. 

It must be borne in mind that a Day Nursery 
is an expensive way of helping the mother. Many 
of them cost 2s. per attendance, and the mother 
pays perhaps sixpence. A mother who takes three 
children to a Day Nursery five days a week can only 
lead the life of drudgery described in the diaries on 
an earlier page because of the philanthropy (?) of 
the State and the community in being willing to 
spend 22s. 6d. per week on her and her family. 

Residential Nurseries. As regards Residential 
Nurseries, I should say they are more difficult to 
manage than any other institution. In a Day 
Nursery you can try to exclude the infectious child 
and send it home. In the Residential Nursery you 
cannot do this. I recently heard of a small Resi- 
dential Nursery which within a few months of the 
opening had epidemics of whooping-cough, ophthal- 
mia, and diarrhoea, with some deaths. I think it 
may fairly be said that progressive Boards of 
Guardians have succeeded in running successfully 
every kind of institution under their charge with 
the exception of the nurseries. It is well that the 
difficulties of managing a Residential Nursery 
should be thoroughly realised, as it is quite probable 
that there may be a movement to promote more 

146 



Institutions to Help the Mother 

of these institutions for the care of illegitimate 
children now that the question of the unmarried 
mother and her child is being considered in earnest. 
Sir Arthur Newsholme's remarks on this question 
in the supplement to the 47th Annual Report of 
the Local Government Board (1917-18) are very 
much to the point : 

" Charitable agencies which undertake the reform 
of unmarried mothers can only effect the greatest good 
by keeping the mothers and their infants together. 
Commonly, their activities take the form of admitting 
the mother to a home, the infant being boarded out 
separately or admitted into an infants' home, under 
zealous and devoted women who often have no nursing 
and hygienic knowledge, and under whose care an 
appalling loss of infant life and health occurs. It is hoped 
that the giving of grants by the Board for the care 
of illegitimate infants under regulated conditions will 
bring most of such institutions under inspection and 
result in great improvements in their administration. 
At present, outside London there is no adequate pro- 
vision for this. 

" The more usual plan has been to place the infant 
out with a foster mother : and if a trustworthy person 
is available, this is more in the infant's interest than 
an institution, however well regulated." 

Mot her -substitutes not wanted. It seems to 
me that the test of most of these institutions is 
whether they are aids to the mothers or mother- 
substitutes. We do not want mother-substitutes. 
In the course of time, when the homes are improved 
and playgrounds adjacent to the home, however 



Infant and Young Child 

small, are provided, one hopes that the develop- 
ment of a system of trained " home helps " who 
may be available for the relief of the mother in 
times of emergency and special stress, may render 
many of these institutions unnecessary. Already 
the local authority is empowered to supply a " home 
help " during the mother's lying-in period, whether 
the confinement takes place at the home or else- 
where, and an extension of the plan to other emer- 
gencies seems quite feasible. Of course, in very many 
cases the mother could pay the home help herself. 
It would be convenient for the local authority to 
keep a list of such home helps, either at the Mater- 
nity and Child Welfare Centres or at some central 
place in each ward or subdivision of the district. 

Nursery schools. As regards the new move- 
ment for establishing Nursery Schools, provided 
for in the Education Act of 1918, one feels that 
if they are carried out in the spirit of the memoran- 
dum issued by the Board of Education they will 
have great opportunities for doing good in the 
congested districts of our large towns. If, on the 
other hand, they are looked upon simply as modified 
or glorified Infants' Departments, the whole move- 
ment is foredoomed to failure. In order to achieve 
success it will be necessary to have in charge of 
the nursery schools women imbued with something 
of the enthusiasm and idealism of Miss Margaret 
MacMillan, and it would be well if Education 
Committees, before doing anything in the matter, 
would send deputations to study the methods of 
the MacMillan Nursery School at Deptford. 

148 



CONCLUSION 

MUCH research work is no doubt necessary before 
we can solve many of the problems of infancy and 
early childhood, but we know enough now to 
transform England if we could but put our know- 
ledge into practice. 

We want healthy parents and healthy homes ; 
we want well-educated mothers provided with a 
sufficient income and backed by an efficient medical 
service. 

Above all, we want to raise the ideals of mother- 
hood, both of its duties and of its rights. We 
must make motherhood one of the chief features 
of the new social heredity which we are to impose 
on the nation during the coming period of recon- 
struction. To do this we must enlist the help 
of all. This is a cause in which the members of a 
League of Nations can honourably compete with- 
out fear of jingoism or a reversion to barbarism. 
In order to produce the maximum effect we must 
begin with the young. All philosophers from 
Plato onwards recognise the importance of be- 
ginning with the young. The strength of the 
Jesuit movement always rested on the schools 
which they established. The Germans, in their 
almost superhuman bid for world power, began from 
the elementary schools upwards. The Japanese, 

149 



Infant and Young Child 

in modernising their country, began with the 
schools. Critics say that our schools fail to teach 
character. If that is correct, we must find the 
remedy. 

The founder of the Boy Scout movement, which 
has already achieved such splendid results, says : 
" The whole object of our scheme is to seize the 
boy's character in the red-hot stage of enthusiasm 
and to weld it into the right shape, and to encour- 
age and develop its individuality, so that the boy 
may educate himself to become a good man and 
a valuable citizen for our country in the imme- 
diate future/' Perhaps something more about the 
ideals of fatherhood and motherhood could be 
incorporated in the ethics of Boy Scouts and Girl 
Guides. 

Benjamin Kidd concludes his book, " The 
Science of Power," with the following words : 

" The will to attain to an end imposed on a 
people by the emotion of an ideal organised and 
transmitted through social heredity is the highest 
capacity of mind. It can only be imposed in all 
its strength through the young. So to impose 
it has become the chief end of education in the 
future. 

" Oh, you blind leaders who seek to convert 
the world by laboured disputations ! Step out 
of the way, or the world must fling you aside. 
Give us the Young. Give us the Young, and we 
will create a new mind and a new earth in a single 
generation. 

" The idealism which will win out in the stress 



Conclusion 

of the world is that through which Power must 
obtain the completest expression. Power in its 
highest expression is the science of organising the 
individual mind in the service of the universal. 
Truth is nothing else than this science of Power. 
This is the test by which every religion will have 
to stand or fall." 

We look hopefully to the Churches and the 
great teaching profession. 

There is much talk of the union of the Churches. 
Could they unite for a nobler purpose than that 
of raising the ideals of motherhood ? 

The teaching profession has a great part 
to play, and we must see to it that the best men 
and women are attracted into this service and 
that their devotion is recompensed much more 
adequately than is the case at present. 

Every boy or girl, before leaving school, what- 
ever the status of the school may be, should know 
what is meant by good citizenship, and something 
of the duties and responsibilities of parenthood. 

If we can raise the ideals of motherhood and 
family life and impress them on the youth of both 
sexes, the citizens that are to be, we shall leave 
the problems of human progress and social evolu- 
tion in safe hands. 



APPENDIX 

Breast-feeding 

THE paper on Breast-Feeding, read by Dr. Lucy 
Naish, formerly Assistant Physician to the Municipal 
Infant Consultations, Sheffield, at the Second 
Annual Meeting of the General Council of the 
Association of Infant Consultations and Schools 
for Mothers, is so valuable that I have obtained 
her permission to reproduce it in these pages : 

Weaning at or shortly after birth is, I need hardly 
say, very common among the well-to-do classes, and 
there are signs that the custom is spreading gradually 
to the less well-to-do. There is a tendency amongst 
medical men and others to accept this as an inevitable 
outcome of modern life, and to oppose it merely with 
a few generalisations and platitudes. The historical 
evidence of Dr. Forsyth and the clinical evidence of 
Drs. Pritchard and Carter certainly seem to point in 
the direction of women's lessened capacity for nursing, 
but I think that the subject has never been thoroughly 
investigated, and one reason for this seems to me to 
be that the " baby expert " does not usually arrive 
on the scene until some weeks after birth. Without 
making any dogmatic assertion that all this modern 
increase of weaning is unnecessary, I hope to be able 
to raise in your minds the doubt whether a consider- 
able amount of this leakage from natural to artificial 



Breast-Feeding 

feeding is not avoidable and due to mismanagement at 
birth. Some of the details may seem trivial enough but 
my subjective experience, for I have nursed six now 
eight] babies of my own, leads me to believe that 
neglect of such details will have a profound effect upon 
the after course of the feeding. I believe that few doctors 
appreciate the difficulties attendant on the commence- 
ment of lactation, and that a mother without the in- 
telligent and sympathetic help which comes from such 
appreciation often lapses into a course of feeding which 
would otherwise be avoidable. Forewarned is fore- 
armed, and if the mother understands that certain 
things that appear to her in her weak and aching 
condition to be unusual and unnatural are really 
common and natural, her mind will be set at rest and 
she will not try to remedy that which requires no 
remedy. 

The Mother's State During the First Two Days. 
At this period she feels weak and aching all over, and 
a prime necessity for her is sufficient rest and sleep. 
But this it is often very difficult for her to get. It is 
not always possible for a housekeeper to relinquish 
entirely the reins of office, and the nurse, if strange, is 
unable to shield her from the daily cares. It is at this 
period that the baby so often cries both long and loud, 
and has no sense of the division of night from day. 
It will be trite to you that the milk flow is not established 
for the first two or three days, but in my experience few 
mothers understand that the crying of the baby at 
this time is not a cry of hunger, but a natural process 
for the full expansion of the lungs. The consequence 
of all this is that the mother gets worked up into a 
feverish state of anxiety, and when an opportunity for 
sleep comes she is unable to take advantage of it. The 
probable effect of this state on the function of the mam- 



Appendix 

mary gland may be easily imagined. A vicious circle 
is easily set up, in which the mother's nervous state 
acts prejudicially to the milk, and anxiety from the 
poor milk supply keeps up the nervous condition. 

The Baby's Difficulty in Sucking. It is a rather 
curious and unexpected phenomenon that, apart from 
the condition known as depressed nipples, a baby 
should show any aversion to taking its natural sus- 
tenance. It is, nevertheless, a fact that many babies 
will struggle and scream for long periods before they 
will suck effectively, and will often repeat this per- 
formance again and again as their meal times come 
round. Among the poor it is quite common to find 
mothers who feed from one breast only, and this upon 
careful inquiry is found to be due in many cases, not 
to an abscess having developed on one side, but merely 
to the predilection of the infant. My own personal 
experience bears out not only the infantile aversion to 
sucking, but that the aversion is sometimes noticeably 
unilateral. The usual position for the nurse to place 
the baby for its meal is lying parallel to and at one 
side of the mother. Now with this arrangement the 
mother has to turn sideways and support herself in 
an uncomfortable position, in which she gets tired 
within a few minutes. Even when the baby takes with 
readiness she feels cramped and tired before the end 
of the meal, but when the baby struggles and refuses 
she is exhausted before any proper attempt at sucking 
has been made. The baby should be laid across the 
mother's body, and a pillow under the arm that sup- 
ports the child's head. The finger placed in the baby's 
mouth acts as a stimulus to sucking, and by rapidly 
withdrawing it and substituting the nipple the oppo- 
sition of the child may with patience be overcome. 
Cracked Nipples. The pain caused by these minute 



Breast-Feeding 

fissures is frequently intense, and acts as a most power- 
ful deterrent to lactation. A short time ago a friend 
told me that it was only the experience of what she had 
gone through with her first baby, which was bottle-fed 
and a waster, which enabled her to endure the agony 
with her second child. It is not my intention to plunge 
deeply into treatment, but I may say that the avoidance 
of the hardening agents that are so often recommended, 
the strict limitation of the time of sucking during the 
first two or three days, and the application of bland 
ointments and fomentations are to my mind the things 
of most importance for the alleviation of this condition. 

The After-pains brought on by the baby sucking 
during the first two or three days are sometimes in- 
tense and sufficient to make the mother feel quite faint. 
I have known mothers quite worried over this, think- 
ing there was something wrong. An assurance that 
this pain is really beneficial in helping the organs to 
regain their normal size again is a great comfort, and 
removes one more hindrance to lactation. 

After about sixty hours the breasts begin to be hard 
and very tender ; it hurts the mother to move her arms 
or to turn over ; she feels uncomfortable ; the tempera- 
ture may rise slightly, and the pain may even keep her 
awake. It is at this time that the stimulus of sucking 
causes what is known as the " draught " to appear. 
This is a sharp, cutting pain radiating through both 
breasts. It occurs about a quarter of a minute after 
the breast is stimulated, and the earlier the lactation 
period the earlier it comes on. If now the infant brings 
up the draught by mouthing the nipple without firmly 
catching hold, the breast soon gets soft again, and this 
is often mistaken by the mother and the nurse for an 
indication of a poor supply of milk. A mother should 
be informed beforehand that the breast only secretes 

'55 



Appendix 

whilst the sucking action is going on, and that if that 
stimulus is not present the gland will become softer. 

Periodic Feeding. Some people have scoffed at the 
careful arrangement of hours for feeding, saying that 
it is an artificial interference with the natural pro- 
clivities of the infant ; but the secretion of the breast 
certainly tends to be periodic. During the first few 
months the draught comes into the breast at regular 
periods, and if the baby is not there to suck the milk 
runs away. I think there can be little doubt that it 
is best to let the baby have its meal at what is evidently 
the optimum time of secretory activity, and this is 
borne out by the observation that if the baby sleeps 
over the time when the draught comes, he is usually 
more disturbed and fretful after his meal. It is a 
common thing to hear mothers say that the milk goes 
when they come downstairs, and I have some reason 
to think that the cause of this is partially, at any rate, 
the deficiency of regular periodic stimulation during 
the lying-in period. Babies do seem to sleep most 
soundly during the first month, and there is often 
great difficulty in rousing them for their feed. A 
quick way is to wash the face with water that is almost 
cold. 

Rapidity of Flow. The milk flows from the 
breast very quickly during the first two or three min- 
utes ; it comes out in several strong jets at this time, 
while during the latter part of the sucking period the 
flow is very slow. This may be demonstrated in more 
than one way. If while the baby is sucking at one 
side a breast pump be applied to the opposite side, the 
whole process may be watched, and this rapid squirting 
out for the first minute or two be seen. It may also 
be demonstrated by means of the test feed. If say 
the usual period of sucking is ten minutes, in the first 

156 



Breast-Feeding 

three minutes the baby will receive something like 
two-thirds the total amount of its average meal. I 
have known a baby weighing less than n Ib. to take 
over 3 oz. in just over three minutes. This vigorous 
flow may irritate the back of the child's throat and 
cause it to choke, so that it begins to scream and re- 
fuses to suck. The mother may imagine that the 
milk does not suit the child, and finding that this 
choking and screaming does not occur with the bottle, 
she may be strengthened in her erroneous conclusion. 
She should, of course, be told of the possibility of this 
occurrence, and that the symptoms are of no serious 
import. As the milk flows out so rapidly at first it 
may be heard gurgling into the stomach. I have 
known a mother who, hearing this, thought that some- 
thing was seriously wrong, and it was once quoted 
to me as a cause of weaning. 

The Crying of the Baby. This is often taken as 
an indication of deficient supply of milk. The simplest 
way of investigating this is to give the child a test 
feed by weighing it before and after a meal on sensi- 
tive scales. Such scales are often, however, not avail- 
able, but a fairly accurate estimate may be made by 
using the pump to the opposite breast while the baby 
is sucking : the amount obtained is rather less than 
what the baby gets. The indiarubber ball of the pump 
should be held squeezed tight until the mother feels 
the draught, and then released, when the milk will 
flow out and fill the reservoir without further pump- 
ing. Nurses frequently use the pump in an entirely 
wrong manner by applying it to a breast while the 
baby is not sucking, nor due to suck. It is easy to 
demonstrate that by this means the flow often appears 
to be quite inadequate when in reality it is nothing 
of the kind. The mother, of course, is much impressed 

157 



Appendix 

when she sees the flow into the pump is so small, and 
needs very little further persuading that her milk is 
of little use to the baby. 

Returning to the question of crying as an indication 
of the quantity of the supply, I have carried out a 
series of test feeds on one baby during the first month 
of life, testing almost every meal during this period, 
and was unable to find any relationship between the 
amount taken and the amount of crying between the 
feeds. 

Nervous Phenomena. The process of suckling a 
child is associated with distinct nervous phenomena. 
This is probably due to the stimulation of a little-used 
gland at a time when the general tone is lowered owing 
to the pain and shock of childbirth. Insanity has, you 
know, a tendency to appear at such times, and the 
lesser grades of insanity merge gradually into what may 
be considered as a normal, or at any rate a very usual, 
condition, namely, hyper-excitability and liability to 
be upset by very trivial causes. A headache which 
comes on with greater intensity when the mother trios 
to go to sleep, and which effectually prevents sleep, 
is quite common. It is often easily controlled by some 
phenacetin and caffeine, and it is the duty of the nurse 
so to arrange the work of the sick-room and the baby's 
outings that the mother can have undisturbed quiet 
from say 2 to 4 P.M. Such rest in my opinion is most 
essential, and should be insisted upon by the medical 
attendant. Bromides at night will enable the mother 
to get to sleep again quickly if she is aroused to feed 
the baby. When lactation is firmly established bromide 
is no longer required, for the mother then usually feels 
very sleepy, and will, as the Irishman said, " wake up 
to find herself asleep." The phenacetin, however, often 
needs to be continued for a month or six weeks, as 



Breast-Feeding 

the day headache not infrequently persists for this 
length of time. 

The length of time that a mother should stay in 
bed is a matter on which there is some divergence of 
opinion. There is a school of obstetric physicians now 
who recommend their patients to rise almost imme- 
diately after parturition. They may be (and probably 
are) quite right that the absolutely recumbent position 
is not the best for the woman's internal organs, but 
it seems to me that they leave out of count the cir- 
cumstances attendant on early rising from bed. The 
mother willy-nilly gets plunged into the whirl of her 
household duties as soon as she is actually found to 
be up. If then she is suffering, as is only too likely, 
from some nervous instability, something is bound to 
suffer, and it is quite likely that this will be the milk 
supply. I am convinced that a large number of wean- 
ings take place because the mother is not sufficiently 
shielded from worries during these very important few 
weeks immediately after birth. The more careful and 
apt to act with foresight the mother is, the more likely 
she is to be affected, and this is perhaps the reason why 
the poor, who are generally more haphazard and leave 
things more to chance, do not seem to suffer so much. 
By all means get rid of the totally recumbent posture 
and let the mother sit up in bed, but have her treated 
as an invalid, both as regards callers and affairs of 
management. After the mother does get up I think 
it is a good plan for her to lie down while feeding the 
child for the first month or two. This ensures a quarter 
of an hour's rest every two or three hours. You may 
think that I am exaggerating in describing these 
nervous conditions, but how many babies are weaned 
because the doctor says that Mrs. So-and-So is not 
equal to the strain, and in how many of these cases 

'59 



Appendix 

is a moment's consideration given as to whether some- 
thing else may not be sacrificed rather than the natural 
food of the child ? I am sure that a lot of weanings 
take place, not because the mother is definitely un- 
willing to feed, but because she thinks that she can 
combine the feeding with a lot of social duties and 
pleasures ; in other words, she has never counted 
the cost. I heard of a case the other day where a 
mother had determined to start that insidious " one 
bottle a day " in order to be able to go out to dinner 
and theatre, and was inquiring as to what to put into 
it. Fortunately, the medical man pointed out the 
likelihood of one leading to more, and a week or two 
later the mother, having thought it all out, had come 
to the conclusion that the sacrifice of a few pleasures 
was a small price to pay for not only ensuring a good 
basis of health for her child, but giving herself that 
intimate interest in the child's welfare which can 
only be gained through sacrifice. 

Fissures of the Anus. This is a very common con- 
dition after childbirth, and excruciatingly painful, and 
yet the doctor is hardly ever informed of this pain. So 
much may be done for its prevention and alleviation, 
yet because the mother looks worn out and this cause 
is not suspected, weaning may be ordered. 

Thrush. I cannot close without alluding to what 
I believe is a very common, if not the commonest, cause 
of unnecessary weaning among the poor. Thrush 
commonly causes vomiting, loose motions and loss 
of weight, and it is not at all surprising that such 
symptoms are taken as an indication that the breast 
milk is not agreeing with the baby. As the condition 
is a totally preventible one, it is the more a pity that 
it should be the starting point of so much trouble. 

1 60 



INDEX 



ADENOIDS, 115 
Alcoholics and marriage, 12 
Ante-natal clinics, 135 
Atrophy of ibreasts, theory of, 
92, 97 

BABIES' Welcomes, 63 

Baby, management of (see In- 
fant management) 

Bath and bathroom, 33 

Bigger, Dr. E. Coey, and Car- 
negie Trust Report on Ire- 
land, 50 

Blepharitis, 116 

Bottle-feeding, risks of, 91 

Boy Scouts, 150 

Bradford, infant mortality in, 
compared with Conruaught, 
53 ; compared with Sheffield, 

54 

Breast-feeding, in Norway and 
Sweden, 42 ; among Jews, 46, 
47; among Irish, 48, 51; in 
Outer Hebrides, 53 ; among 
Friends, 57 ; monthly nurses 
and, 84, 94; influence of, in 
reducing infant mortality, 
88 ; disinclination not to be 
confused with inability for, 
93 ; ignorance of fathers con- 
cerning, 93; doctors and, 95, 
96 ; ignorance of mothers con- 
cerning, 95 ; difficulties and 
management of, 98, 152 

Breasts of new-born infants, 
squeezing, 105 

Brownlee, IDr., 144 

Budin, Professor, on stimulat- 
ing mammary gland, 96; and 
cows' milk for infants, 99 

Burns, deaths from, 121 

Burns, Mr. John, on mother- 
hood, 38 



CARNEGIE Trust Report on Ire- 
land, 50 ; on Scottish Mothers 
and Children, 52, 142 

Carpets, 33 

Castor-oil for new-born babies, 

I0 5 

Character training, 125, 126 
Cheetham, Manchester, infant 

mortality in, 46 
Child pensions, 70; how the 
system would work out 
in Sheffield, 72 

poverty, classification of 

victims of, 69 

young (see Young child) 

Child-welfare centres, 113, 117 
(Children Act, and neglectful 

parents, 77 

of insured persons, claims 

of, to medical attention, 

87 

Cleanliness, babies and, 103 
Clinics, school, 117 
Clothing, for babies, 103 

- for young children, 120; 

deaths from burns and, 

121 

Connaught mothers, 51, 52 
Cows' milk, for infants, 99; 
dried, 99, 100 

DARWINISM, so-called, and in- 
fant mortality, 3 

Day nurseries, 113, 136, 139; 
gardens and, 142 ; disadvan- 
tages of, 146 

Death-rate of young children, 
122; in Bradford, 122; in 
Sheffield, 123. (See also In- 
fant mortality) 

Dental service for children, 85. 
(See also Teeth) 

Discharging ears, 115 



161 



Index 



Discipline, 125 

Doors, and healthy dwellings, 31 

Drying clothes, facilities for, 

34 
Dublin, infant mortality in, 55 

EDUCATION of children, promo- 
tive of temperance, 14 

of the young child, 124 

Epileptics, and .marriage, 12 
Erasmus, an illegitimate child, 

78 
Eugenics, and practical politics, 

Ex-baby (see Young child) 
Exercise, babies and, 102 

FACTORY creches, 145 
Families, large, State help for 

(see Child pensions) 
Family doctor, place of, in 

medical service of future, 84 
Feeding, of infant, 98, 152; of 

young child, no 
Food, improper, for young 

child, no 
Fresh air, and babies, 101 ; and 

young child, in 

GIRL .Guides, 150 
Gonorrhoea, effects of, on family 
life, 15 

HALL, Dr. W., on Jewish chil- 
dren in Leeds, 45 

Hay, Dr. Percival, 116 

Health visitors, 132 

Heredity, social and inborn, 8 

Hill, Miss Octavia, 36 

Homes, healthy, minimum re- 
quirements of, 25 

Hope, Dr., on Jewish commu- 
nity in Liverpool, 47 ; on in- 
fant mortality in Irish com- 
pared with English slums in 
Liverpool, 55 

Hospitals for crippled children, 
need for more, 85 

Hot-water supply, 27 



ILLEGITIMATE children, care of, 
147; need for further legisla- 
tion in interests of, 78 
Impetigo, 117 

Infant management, and medi- 
cal curriculum, 80; breast- 
feeding and, 88 

mortality, so-called Dar- 
winism and, 3; parental 
responsibility for, 41 ; 
breast-feeding and, 41, 
42, 46, 51 ; low rate of, 
among Jews, 41, 48; low 
rate of, in ilrish country 
districts, 48; tables of, 
in areas of Ireland and 
England, 49; in Irish 
and English counties, 
50; causes of low rate of, 
in Ireland, 51 ; pre- 
maturity and, 52 ; rate 
of, in Bradford com- 
pared with Connaught, 
53; in Sheffield com- 
pared with Bradford, 
54 ; in Dublin, 55 ; in 
English and Irish slums 
of Liverpool, 55 ; among 
Quakers, 57 

Infectious diseases, 107, 117 
Insurance, and a medical ser- 
vice for all, 87 

Interdepartmental Committee on 
Physical Deterioration, Re- 
port of, 40 
Irish (see 'Breast-feeding and 

Infant mortality) 
Itch, 117 



JEWS, and parental warning of 
sexual dangers, 19; and re- 
verence for motherhood, 20; 
and sobriety, 43, 46, 47 ; and 
care of expectant and nursing 
mothers, 44 ; and education of 
children, 44 ; and absence of 
overlying, 44; and care of 
children, 44, 47 ; and educa- 
tion, 45 ; dietary and physique 
of children of, 45 ; and breast- 



162 



Index 



feeding, 46, 47 ; and infant- 
mortality rate, 46, 48 
Judge Neill, and child pensions, 
70 



infant man- 
agement, 82 

Medical practitioners, and 
training in infant hy- 
giene, 80, 83 

service, need for an effi- 
cient, 80 
treatment for all children, 



KIDD, Benjamin, on survival of 
the fittest, 6 ; on social here- 
dity, 8 ; on cultivation of 
ideals in the young, 19 ; on 8& 

the young as creators of the Mental defectives, and mar- 
riage, 10 

Midwives, instruction of, in in- 
fant management, 81 
Milk, cows', for infants, 99; 
dried, 99, 100; sterilised, 120 

Monthly nurses, and breast- 
LACTATION, prolonged, no 

Landlord and tenant, 35 
Larders, 28 

Leeds, Jewish children in, 45 
Leonardo da Vinci, an illegiti- 



future, 150 

King, Dr. F. Truby, 101 (foot- 
note) 

Kitchen, aspect of, 30 



mate child, 78 
Liquor Control Board, success 
of policy of, 13 



feeding, 84, 94 ; and infant 
hygiene, 81 

Mother substitutes, 147 

Mothercraft, scheme of lectures 
on, 65 ; scheme for teaching 
of, in elementary schools, 66 ; 
scheme for teaching of, in day 
continuation schools, 67 



Liverpool, Jewish community Motherhood, ideals of', 38 ; Mr. 



in, 47 ; infant mortality in 
Irish compared with English 
slums of, 55 



MACKENZIE, Sir W. Leslie, on 
day nurseries, 142 ; on " tod- 
dlers' playgrounds," 144 

MaaMillan, Miss Margaret, 148 

Madonna, cult of, influence of 
on motherhood, 55, 56 

Manchester, infant mortality in 
Cheetham district of, 46 

Mann, Mr. John, jun., on bad Mouth-breathing, 112 
tenants, 36 

Marriage, certificates of fitness 
for, 23 

Maternity and Child Welfare 
Act (i 9 i 8), 
schemes under, 
130 



John Burns on, 38; Sir 
George Newman on, 39 ; 
among Jews, 43 ; among Irish, 
51, 55; among Italians, 56; 
among Friends, 57 ; the 
Churches and, 60, 151 
Mothers, training of future, 61 ; 

training of existing, 63 ; 

institutions to help, 130 ; 

pensions for (see Child 

pensions) 
working, time-tables of, 139 



NAISH, Dr. Lucy, on breast- 
feeding, 98, 152 

National Association for Pre- 
vention of Infant Mor- 
tality, and infant man- 



centres, 63, 130 

Medical curriculum, infant hy- 
giene and, 80 

Officers of (Health, past 

mistakes of, 107 
Society of, on 



agement, 82, 138 
Council for Combating 
Venereal Diseases, 

H 

for the Unmarried 

Mother and Her 
Child, 79 



I6 3 



Index 



National League for Physical QUAKERS (see Society of Friends) 
Education and Improve- 



ment, 125 



RACE, and motherhood, 42 



Society for Prevention of Religion, and motherhood, 42 

Cruelty to Children, Residential nurseries, 113; 
influence of, in 



of, 

raising standard of 
parental responsi- 
..*. bility, 75 

of Day Nurseries, 138 

Nelson, a weakly child, 7 
Newman, Sir George, on 
motherhood, 39 ; on parental 
responsibility for infant mor- 
tality, 41 ; on breast-feeding, 
41, 42 ; and maternity and 
child welfare centres., 63 
Newsholme, Sir Arthur, and 
death-rate of young children 
in Large towns, 122; on care 
of illegitimate infants, 147 
Nipples, treatment of, 96 
Niven, Dr., on Jewish com- 
munity in Cheetham district, 
46 
Nursery schools, 113, 148 

OLD wives' tales concerning 
childbirth and babies, 104 

Open-air recovery schools, 112 

Ophthalmia neonatorum, infre- 
quency of, in Ireland, 51 ; de- 
fective " team work " in, 106 

Out-patient departments, reform 
of, 85 

PALMER, Miss M. V., training 

schemes of, 64 
Papworth Colony, 22 
Parents, neglectful, 74 ; Children 

Act and, 77 
Parr, Mr., and rarity of cruelty 



difficulties of managing, 146 
Rest, for young child, 112 
Rickets, 113 
Ringworm, 117 
Roman 'Catholic Church, and 

ideals of motherhood, 56 

SALEEBY, Dr. . W., on infant 
mortality, 53 

Scabies, 117 

School children, need for ade- 
quate medical treatment 
of, 86 

clinics, 117 

Schools for mothers, 63 

Scurvy, 114 

Self-contained cottages or flats, 

34 

Servants, domestic, lack of, 62 
Sheffield, Jewish community in, 
44; infant mortality in, com- 
pared with Bradford, 54; 
how system of child pensions 
would work out in, 72 ; how 
neglectful parents are dealt 
with in, 77 ; use of dried 
milk in, 99 ; blepharitis in 
elementary schools of, 116; 
organisation of health visitors 
in, 134 ; women sanitary in- 
spectors in, 134 ; day nursery 
of, 139; factory creches in, 

*45 

Simpson, Sir A. R., and needs 

of new-born, 80 
Sims, Mr. G. R., on alien 

mothers, 42; on Jewish ideal 

of motherhood, 43 



to children among Jews, 48 Sink, in living room, 32 



Posture, for babies, 102 

Poverty, child, classification of, 
69 

Pritchard, Dr. Eric, on instruc- 
tion of midwives in infant 
management, 81 ; 101 (foot- 
note) 



Sleep, babies and, 102 ; young 
child and, 112 

Social heredity and inborn 
heredity, 8 

Society of Friends, infant-mor- 
tality rate in, 57 ; and breast- 
feeding, 57; high moral stan- 



164 



Index 



dard in, 57 ; parenthood in, 

c- 58 

Squint, 117 

State creches, 136 

Slephenson, Dr. Sydney, on 
ophthalmia neonatorum, 106 

Sterilisation of milk, 99 

Superstitions concerning ba- 
bies, 104 

Survival of the fittest, and in- 
fant mortality, 3 ; and tuber- 
culosis, 5 

Syphilis, clinics for, 16 ; pro- 
hibition of quack treatment 
of, 16; congenital form of, 17; 
prophylaxis and, 18; moral 
and educational propaganda 
and, 18 ; infrequency of, in 
Ireland, 51 

TEETH, of young child, care of, 
110; breast-feeding and, 115; 
suitable food and, 116. (See 
also Dental service) 
Tenant and landlord, 35 
11 Toddlers' playgrounds," 144 
Town life, evils of, and infants, 

107 
Tuberculosis dispensaries, 120 

heredity and, 20 ; family 

infection in, 21 ; insuf- 
ficiency of sanatorium 
treatment of, 22; milk 
and, 99; in infants and 
young children, 118 



VENEREAL diseases (see Gonor- 
rhoea and Syphilis) 
Ventilation, 29 



WALWORTH estate of Ecclesias- 
tical Commissioners, 36 

Weaning, food after, 101 

Wives and children of -insured 
persons, claims of, to medical 
attention, 87 

Women architects, 26 

sanitary inspectors, 132 ; 

in Sheffield, 134 

Women's Housing Sub-Com- 
mittee of Ministry of Recon- 
struction, 27, 37 



YOUNG child, management of, 
109; prolonged lactation and, 
no; irregular feeding of, 
no; improper food for, no; 
care of teeth of, no; fresh 
air for, in ; rest and sleep 
for, 112; rickets in, 113; dis- 
charging ears and adenoids 
in, 115; (bad teeth in, 115; 
blepharitis in, 116; skin affec- 
tions in, 117; infectious dis- 
eases in, 117; tuberculosis in, 
118; clothing for, 120; death- 
Tate of, 122; education of, 
124; discipline of, 125; char- 
acter training of, 126 



65 



PRINTED BY 

CASSBLL & COMPANY, LIMITED, LA BELLE SAUVAGB, 
LONDON, B.C. 4 

F 20.619 



\ 



'! 



3 



<D 4? 



I 3 

< H 



ersity of Tcie^to 
Library 



DO NOT 

REMOVE 

THE 

CARD 

FROM 

THIS 

POCKET 




Acme Library Card Pocket 
Under Pat "Ref . Index Ffle" 

Made by LIBRARY BUREAU 



