rF 



. ,1^0,56 




"^ 



t 



3^ 



t-,. 



BULLETIN Home Economics Series 

No. 35 No. 3 



USE AND 

PREPARATION 

OF FOOD 



OCTOBER. J9I9 




Issued by the 

FEDERAL BOARD FOR VOCATIONAL EDUCATION 

WASHINGTON 



WASHINGTON : GOVERNMENT PKINTING OFFICE : 1919 



FEDERAL BOARD FOR VOCATIONAL EDUCATION. 



MEMBERS. 



David F. Houston, Chairman, 

Sevretaiy of Agriculture. 
William C. Redfield, 

Secretary of Commerce, 
William B. Wilson, 

Secretary of Lahor. 
P. P. Claxton, 

Commiasiuner of lUUication. 



James P. Munroe, Vice Chairman, 
Ma)iufacturc and Commerce. 

Calvin F. McIntosh, 
Apricnltnrc. 

Arthur ]•]. Holder, 
Lahor. 



EXECUTIVE STAFF. 



C. A. Prosser, Director. 
Layton S. Hawkins, Chief Vocational Education Division. 
VvA. W. La^mkin, Chief Rchahilitation Division. 
L. H. Carris, Assistant Chief Vocational Education Division. 
C. H. Lan^, ^ j\gri,cnltur,al Education. ■ ; • 

F. G. NicHOLsi G'pjn'mcrofa^i E,duca4ion. ' 
Anna E. Richardson, Abme Economics Education. 
J. r. Wright, Trade fi^n^'Jfii^ustrial Education. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. 



Paff«. 

Foreword 7 

Unit I. — ^The Pbepakation of Some Simple Foods. 

Lesson 1. Puddings, cream soups, and cream toast 16 

Lesson 2. Breakfast cereals 19 

Lesson 3. Rice, hominy, and barley 22 

Lesson 4. The use and preparation of macaroni and tapioca 25 

Lesson 5. Beverages 27 

Lesson 6. The breakfast menu 31 

Unit II. — Fruits and Vegetables. 

Lesson 1. The value of fruits and vegetables in the diet : Ways of using 

fresh fruit 32 

Lesson 2. The use and preparation of dried fruits 36 

Lessons. Ways of preparing potatoes 38 

Lesson 4. Ways of preparing green vegetables 41 

Lesson 5. New and practical ways of using vegetables 45 

Lesson 6. The vegetable dinner 47 

Unit III. — Peactical Ways of Using Peas, Beans, and Nuts. 

Lesson 1. The use and preparation of dried peas and beans 49 

Lesson 2. Some good soups from peas and beans : 52 

Lesson 3. Nuts and their uses 54 

Lesson 4. The meatless meal 56 

Unit IV. — Milk, Cheese, and Eggs. 

Lesson 1. Milk and its value in the diet 50 

Lesson 2. The cooking of eggs 63 

Lesson 3. Custards and custard puddings 67 

Lesson 4. The use of milk and cream in frozen desserts 70 

Lesson 5. Cheese and its use In the diet 73 

Lesson 6. The use and preparation of cottage cheese 76 

Lesson 7. The luncheon or supper menu 80 

Unit V. — Fats. 

Lesson 1. The selection of fats ; methods of handling waste fat In the 

home 83 

I>esson 2. The use of home-rendered fats in cooking 87 

Lesson 3. The use of fat in pastry 89 

Lesson 4. The use of fat in frying 92 

Lesson 5. Salads and salad dressings 95 

8 



4 CONTENTS. 

Unit VI. — Meat, Fish, Poultbt, and Gamk. 

Page. 

Lesson 1. The selection of meat 103 

Lesson 2. Roasts and steaks 106 

Lesson 3. Pot roasts and stews ; less used portions 109 

Lesson 4. Methods of extending meat flavors 112 

Lesson 5. Soups and broths ; left-over meats 113 

Lesson 6. The use and preparation of fish and other sea foods 116 

Lesson 7. The use and preparation of poulti-y and game 120 

Lesson 8. The dinner menu 122 

.Unit VII. — Batters and Doughs. 

Lesson 1. Quiclc breads 126 

Lesson 2. The use of whole wheat and Graham flours 128 

Lesson 8. The use of flours from other grains than wheat 130 

Lesson 4. Corn breads 133 

Lesson 5. Sour milk and molasses mixtures 136 

Lesson 6. Yeast breads 139 

Lesson 7. Sandwiches 144 

Lesson 8. Cakes and cookies 145 

Unit VIII.^Sugae and Sweets. 

Lesson 1. Brittles and cream candies 152 

Lesson 2. Candies made from sirups 155 

Lesson 3. The use of sirups in cakes and cookies 157 

Lesson 4. Gelatin desserts 160 

Lesson 5. Water ices 163 

Unit IX. — Home Preservation of Food. 

Lesson 1. The canning of fruit 167 

Lesson 2. The canning of vegetables 172 

Lesson 3. Fruit juices 175 

Lesson 4. Jelly making 177 

Lesson 5. Preserves, jams, butters, and marmalades 179 

Lesson 6. Pickles 183 

Lesson 7. Salting and fermentation 186 

Lesson 8. Drying fruits and vegetables 1S9 

Lesson 9. Home storage of fruits and vegetables ; preservation of eggs 192 

Lesson 10. Preservation of meat 196 

Unit X.— Food eok the Family. 

Lesson 1. How to estimate the food needs of the body 200 

Lesson 2. Supplying the body with fuel 203 

Lesson 8. The protein requirement of the body 205 

Lesson 4. Mineral matter necessary for growth 207 

Lesson 5. Further essentials of the adequate dietary 210 

Lesson 6. The planning of meals in relation to the food requirement 212 

Lesson 7. The cost of food for a day 216 

Lesson 8. Planning the menu for a day 218 



CONTETiTTS. 



Unit XT. — Special Modification of the Diet. 

Page. 

Lesson 1. Infant feeding 220 

Lesson 2. Feeding children under school age 225 

Lesson 3. Feeding the school child 227 

Lesson 4. Feeding the aged 230 

Lessons. Feeding in constipation 231 

Lesson 6. Feeding in overweight for weight decrease 234 

Lesson 7. Feeding in underweight for weight increase 23i". 

Lesson 8. Adapting the menu to the needs of the family group 238 

Unit XII. — The Housekeeper and the Food Problem. 

Lesson 1. The housekeeper and the food problem 240 

Lesson 2. Simplifying the standards of living 243 

liBSSon 3. Selection of food for body needs 246 

Lesson 4. Fuel saving in food preparation 250 

Lesson 5. Marketing ; 254 

Lesson 6. Home production of food 262 

Lesson 7. Community kitchens 265 

Publications of the Federal Board for Vocational Education 269 



FOREWORD. 

The period of reconstruction, even more than the period of the war, 
throws a great responsibility upon the women of our country. Three 
great food problems face the American housekeeper to-day : To select 
and use food so that the problem of maintaining the food supply of 
the world may be met ; to feed her family properly so as to maintain 
the health and efficiency of its individual members and thereby the 
welfare of the Nation ; and to choose food so that the family income 
may be wisely used. 

In order that the home makers of this country and the girls and 
women who are to be home makers may have assistance in the sohition 
of these problems, this series of short-unit courses in the use and 
preparation of food is suggested as a basis for instruction in day, 
part-time, and evening classes in home economics. 

This bulletin has been prepared by the Federal Board for Voca- 
tional Education in cooperation with the United States Food Ad- 
ministration, and special acknowledgment is made to Miss Martha 
Van Rensselaer, in charge of the home conservation division of the 
Food Administration, and her colleagues for the valuable help and 
advice which they have given in the preparation of this bulletin. 

The Department of Agriculture has assisted with contributions of 
material and with helpful suggestions from members of the staff, 
aiKi the publications of the department have been of value in the 
preparation of this bulletin. 

This material was assembled and edited by Miss Wenona Windsor, 
special agent for research in home economics of the Federal Board 
for Vocational Education. 

For the contribution of material we are indebted to Miss Georgia 
White, Mrs. Lucile Wheeler Adams, Miss Ruth Wheeler, Miss 
Ivatherine Glover, Miss Flora Rose, and Mrs. Irma Hotchkiss, of the 
Food Administration; to Miss Miriam Birdseye and Miss Caroline 
Hunt, of the Department of Agriculture; and Miss Louise Stanley, of 
the Federal Board. Acknowledgment is further made to Dr. Mary 
Swartz Rose, of Columbia University, for reviewing the manuscript. 

Special acknowledgment is made to Miss Zella E. Bigelow for 
the final editing and preparation of this bulletin. 

C. A. Prosser, Director, 
7 



THE USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 



PURPOSE OF THE COURSE. 

These units are suggested as a basis for practical part-time and 
evening courses in the use and preparation of food. They are in- 
tended to meet the immediate needs of liome makers who are daily 
facing the task of providing adequate food for their families. 

USE OF THE COURSE IN THE SCHOOLS. 

To put this training within the reach of as many women as pos- 
sible the public schools should be encouraged to give part-time and 
evening courses in home making, offering units carefully planned to 
meet the needs of the women of the coramunitJ^ The State super- 
visors of home economics should use their influence to stimulate the 
foundation of these classes whenever there is a group in need of 
such instruction. 

WAYS OF USING THE COURSE. 

The course is planned on the basis of short unite of from 4 to 10 
lessons. This arrangement makes it possible to use the same out- 
line to form courses of varying length and content and to meet the 
needs of anj'^ group of women, even though the women differ in pre- 
vious training, the subjects in which they are interested, and the 
amount of time which they are able to devote to the work. The units 
are so grouped that they form a consecutive course when used to- 
gether, yet each unit is complete in itself and may be used inde- 
pendently or may be combined with any one or more additional 
units to form a shorter course. The use of Unit XII, The House- 
keeper and the Food Problem, should be especially noted. The 
teacher should be familiar with the lessons in this unit, since a 
knowledge of their content is essential in the successful presentation 
of any unit in the course. The subject matter contained in them or 
any part of it may be used in any of the following ways: 

1. As an introductory lasson in a unit. 

2. As general information, given as a part of each lesson, as fitness 
demands. 

3. As part of a final or summarizing lesson in a unit. 

8 



10 USE AjSTD PEEPAEATION OF FOOD. 

4. i^s a complete independent unit offered for women who have 
had previous training in the subject, 

5. As a final unit in the complete course. 

For part-time classes offering 144 hours of instruction in foods, 
the entire outline may be used and will be found to provide sufficient 
material for a course of that length. For these classes, also, the 
flexibility of the course should be kept in mind and certain lessons 
expanded or others omitted so as to meet the especial interests and 
needs of the women. 

For evening classes any unit or group of lessons may be used, de- 
pending upon the needs and desires of the women and the time at 
their disposal. 

For classes of foreign women the lessons will have to be greatly 
modified. The modification should be based upon a thorough study 
of the food habits of each group and a sympathetic understanding 
of their prejudices or religious restrictions. Palatable substitutes and 
American methods should be suggested but not imposed upon them. 
Good foreign recipes should be collected and used. Only chanires 
should be taught which are essential from the standpomt of health 
and economy. 

QUALIFICATIONS OF INSTRUCTORS. 

The qualifications of instructors should be determined in each 
State by the standard for teachers of part-time and evening classes 
in home economics. In addition to practical experience and tech- 
nical and professional training, the teacher of part-time and evening 
classes must have a special interest in part-time education and abil- 
ity in dealing with its problems. The teachers may be obtained 
principally from two sources: 

1. Teachers of home economics in public schools. 

2. Women carefully selected for their wide practical experience in 
home making and preferably those who have had successful teaching 
experience. 

It is important that the instructors not only know the subject in 
hand, but that they have sufficient training to present the material 
in an effective manner. For groups without such training special- 
methods classes may be provided or methods may be offered to 
women with other required qualifications as a part of the itinerant 
teaching of the State supervisor. 

QUALIFICATIONS FOR ADMISSION TO UNITS. 

Beyond the practical experience which women seeking such train- 
ing will probably have had, no special qualifications are necessary 
for admission to units. It is best for efficient work that the 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 11 

members of a class be of nearly the same age and preferably of 
approximately the same ability. 

METHODS OF RECRUITING CLASSES. 

Careful preliminary work should be done in organizing classes 
for part-time and evening work. No course will be successful which 
does not meet the specific needs of the group for whom it is offered. 
Knowledge of these needs can only be obtained by a thorough pre- 
liminary survey. For the actual recruiting of classes, the following 
means are suggested: 

. 1. Enlisting the interest of local organizations which are in touch 
with women. 

2. Enlisting the interest of men or women who have influence 
with the group to be reached. 

3. Enlisting the interest of school children in getting their moth- 
ers to attend such classes. 

4. House-to-house canvass conducted by a person chosen for her 
ability to interest the group to be reached. 

5. Newspaper announcements of the proposed course. 

6. The use of a certificate or some recognition for the completion 
of a definite amount of work. This encourages attendance and serves 
to standardize the amount and kind of work done. 

7. Posters. 

8. Dodgers. 

METHOD OF CONDUCTING A UNIT. 

Individual laboratory work will be required where the course is 
given as a part of the vocational education work in a school aided 
by Federal funds. It is desirable that individual laboratory work 
be required in every class whenever it is possible to obtain equip- 
ment for it. When equipment is provided the work will take the 
form of class practice, supplemented by demonstrations, lectures, 
and class discussions. If laboratory facilities are not available for 
the use of the class, the work may be presented through demonstra- 
tions by the teacher, supplemented by lectures and class discussions. 
In all cases a certain amount of home work should be required, in 
order to connect the class work with home conditions. Suggestions 
for home work have been included in the units in connection with 
the " Methods for developing laboratory work." 

ORDER OF LESSONS. 

The order of the lessons in this course has been planned for the 
^oman who is to take the whole course. The units nave been worked 
out on the basis of the principles involved in preparation. 



12 USE AXD PREPARATIONS OF FOOD. 

In case the women want only one or two units of work, special 
grouping of lessons, such as those suggested below, may be desirable. 
These are only suggestive, and any other combinations especially 
adapted to local condition may be used. This may demand some 
change in the lesson so as to fit it for use in the special unit. 

Lessons may be organized into units on the basis of meals for the 
day. In this case their arrangement may be made from several 
points of view. 

1. The meal may be made the subject of the unit and each lesson 
take up the preparation of some suitable food for the meal, con- 
cluding with a lesson in which meals of various costs are prepared 
and served. The following outline gives some suggestions for the 
use of lessons in carrying out this order : 

LUNCHEONS AND SUPPERS. 

Lesson I. Soups: 

Cream soups, Unit I, Lesson 1. 

Some good soups from peas and beans, Unit III, Lesson 2. 
Lesson 11. Main dishes : 

Macaroni, Unit I, Lesson 4. 

Peas and beans, Unit III, Lesson 1. 

Nuts, Unit III, Lesson 3. 

Cheese, Unit IV, Lesson 5. 

Left-over meats, Unit VI, Lesson 5. 
Lesson III. Vegetables: 

New and practical ways of using vegetables, Unit II, Lesson 5. 
Lesson IV. Salads: 

Salads and salad dressings, Unit V, Lesson 5. 
Lesson V. Desserts: ' 

Custards and custard puddings, Unit IV, Lesson 3. 

Frozen desserts from milk and cream, Unit IV, Lesson 4. 

Water ices, Unit VIII, Lesson 5. 

Gelatin desserts. Unit VIII, Lesson 4. 
Lesson VI. Planning and preparation of luncheons and suppers at 
stated costs. 

The same plan can be used in arranging units for teaching the 
preparation of breakfasts and dinners. 

2. A meal may be prepared at each meeting of the class. This is 
frequently done when the class is made up of a group of working 
girls who wish to prepare their evening meal. In this case the menus 
must be made out in advance and the material selected from the les- 
sons, including the dishes desired. The groups must be small enough 
to insure that one dish is prepared by each two students, and should 
be varied from week to week to cover as many typical dishes as pos- 
sible. Definite account must be taken of the dishes prepared by 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 13 

each inclividua] so as to vary her experience, and all the students 
should observe each other and so profit by the work the others are 
doing. 

3. A unit may be offered on the basis of simple meals for light 
housekeeping. The lessons should be given with equipment any 
working girl can have in her own room, taking into consideration the 
usual conditions to be met. 

The following lessons are suggested : 

Lesson 1. A simple breakfast. — Fruit and cereal or toast and mar- 
malade, or pancakes; coffee or cocoa. 

Lesson 2. More elaborate breakfasts. — Plan breakfasts containing 
heavier dishes, as eggs, creamed meats, creamed dried beef or cod- 
fish, or broiled bacon. 

Lesson 3. The lunch to be taken to the office.— With lunch box con- 
taining thermos bottle. Sandwiches, fruit, beverage — milk, soup, 
cocoa, coffee, or tea. 

Lesson 4. The supper at home. — Soup or eggs or creamed dish, or 
rarebit; salad, dessert. 

Lesson 5. Dinner on two burners. — Chop, potato or rice, green veg- 
etable, dessert. 

Lesson 6. Planning the menu for a day. (See Unit X, Lesson 8.) 

The following unit outlines a possible arrangement for a class in- 
terested in meals for children. 

UNIT ON SUITABLE MEALS FOB CHILDREN. 

Lesson 1. Milk and its value in the diet. Unit IV. Lesson 1. 

Lesson 2. Use of fruit in the diet — preparation of dried fruit, Unit 
n, Lessons 1 and .2. 

Lesson 3. Cereals, Unit I, Lessons 2 and 3. 
• . Lesson 4. Cooking eggs and custards. Unit IV, Lessons 2 and 3. 

Lesson 5. Preparation of potatoes and other ^^egetables, Unit II, 
Lessons 3 and 4. 

Lesson 6. Cream soups, U^nit I, Lesson 1. 

Lesson 7. Preparation of meals for children under school age. Unit 
XI, Lesson 2. 

Lesson 8. Preparation of meals for the school child, Unit XI, Les- 
son 3. 

EQUIPMENT. 

The equipment necessary varies somewhat with the different units. 
Where a laboratory is available, the regular equipment for the prepa- 
ration of food will be satisfactory if this provides individual equip- 
ment for each member of the class. If a laboratory can not be ob- 
tained, and if the class is not too large, the work may be carried on 
in a home kitchen. 



14 USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 

In addition to the general equipment, the teacher should see that 
helpful illustrative material is provided which will aid the students 
in getting a clear grasp of the work. Exhibits of foods in various 
stages of manufacture, pictures illustrating the production or the 
manufacture of foods, charts, posters, and samples of food materials 
not generally obtainable on the local market will all be of help in 
presenting subject matter effectively. Frequently a small exhibit set- 
ting forth the principal points of a lesson and kept before the stu- 
dent during the lesson period makes a much deeper impression than 
the same information given by word of mouth. 

REFERENCE MATERIAL. 

For the use of the teacher, in addition to that given in the bibli- 
ographies following each unit, the following reference material is 
suggested : 

1. Free publications of the various departments of the Govern- 
ment, particularly the United States Department of Agriculture, 
Washington, D. C, the Federal Board for Vocational Education, 
Washington, D. C, and the extension departments of the State agri- 
cultural colleges. The teacher should have her name placed on the 
mailing lists of these agencies to receive publications relating to 
home economics. She should also have a copy of the complete list 
of publications of the Department of Agriculture in order to note 
not only the Farmers' Bulletins but also those listed as "professional 
papers" and "department bulletins." The bulletins of the various 
bureaus of the Department of Agriculture, such as the Bureau of 
Markets, the Bureau of Animal Industry, and the Bureau of Plant 
Industry, also issue material of value to home economics teachers. 
It is frequently worth while to obtain a copy of a Government or ex- 
tension bulletin on a particular subject for each member of the class. 
Bulletins may be obtained in quantity through the Congressman or 
Senator from each State. 

The publications of the United States Food Administration are no 
longer being distributed, but where the supply received during the 
war period is still available they should be used as references. 

2. Standard books relating to foods. — These should be obtainable 
at a public library, or if no public library is at hand, they may be 
borrowed from the State library or from the United States Depart- 
ment of Education at AVashington, D. C. 

3. Current newspaper and magazine articles. 

4. Pictures. 

5. Stories. 

It is important that the teacher keep her instruction and informa- 
tion up to date, and that she use every method to make the lessons of 
real aid in solving the food problems of the members of her classes. 



UNIT I. 
The Preparation of Some Simple Foods. 

GENERAL INFORMATION. 

The cereals are the simplest, the most available, and cheapest 
sources of food we have. Any interference with the grain crop of 
a nation is likely to be followed by famine. 

The cereals most used for food are: Wheat, corn, oats, rye, rice, 
and barley. 

Their food value is so similar that from the standpoint of compo- 
sition the cereals may be used almost interchangeably in the diet. 
Custom and availability have brought about inequalities in use in 
different countries and parts of countries. For example, wheat U 
the staple cereal of parts of America and Europe; corn has a larger 
place in the diet in some of the Southern States and Mexico; rico 
in the Asiatic countries and Pacific islands. 

The very extended use of wheat in Europe and America is due to 
the fact that such a large part of the cereal in our diet is taken in 
the form of bread, and the bread-making power of wheat is greater 
than that of any other cereal. This explains the emphasis upon 
wlieat during the war period. 

The urgenc}' of the wheat situation at that time was due to: 

1. A succession of short crops in America. 

2. The necessity of America furnishing wheat to other countries 
whose ordinary sources of supply were temporarily cut off by — 

A. Decreased production. 

B. Lack of available shipping space for long hauls. 

3. Losses from submarine sinking. 

During the winter of 1917-18 there was a large supply of other 
cereals available, especially corn, so restrictions were put on the sale 
of wheat, forcing the individual to buy other cereals with wheat. 
This whole campaign was valuable in that it taught us many pos- 
sible uses of the othci" cereals. 

Since the signing of the armistice all restrictions on the sale of 
wheat haA'e been removed. The reasons for this are: 

(1) The unusually large crop of wheat in 1918, 

(2) The release of shipping, which makes large stores of wheat 
in India, Australia, and South America available. 

(3) The shortage this year of cereal crops other than wheat, 
which makes it necessary to use all cereals wisely. 

16 



16 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 



From the standpoint of the total food of the world it is advisable 
that we continue the increased use of cereals other than wheat which 
we learned during the war. 



Lesson 1. Puddings, Cream Soups, and Cream Toast. 



AIM. 



To teach action of moist and dry heat on starch and proportions 
of starch to use for thickening. 



POINTS TO be brought OUT. 



1. Food value: 

A. Starch is a carhohydrate or fuel food which is found in most 
vegetable foods. It is especially abundant in the cereals and 
potatoes. When isolated it is a fine white powder. The separate 
grains may be seen under the microscope and are distinctive in shape 
according to the source. 

2. Use of starch as a thickening agent — action of moist heat on 
starch. — When starch is heated with water it absorbs the water and 
swells up, or, as we say, gelatinizes, and the liquid is thickened by 
the swollen starch grains. We determine the degree of thickening 
by the proportion of starch to liquid used. 

A. Kinds of starch ordinarily used: 

Wheat flour (most frequently used). 

Cornstarch. 

Com flour. 

Eice flour. 

Potato flour. 

Tapioca flour. • 

Arrowroot flour. 

B. Proportions of liquid to wheat flour used in mixtures of typical 
consistency : 



Liquid. 



Wheat flour. 



Tream soups. . 
("ream sauces. 
Puddings. . . . , 



do. 



1 tablespoon. 

2 to 3 tablespoons. 
' tablespoons. 



C. Variations in proportions with the kinds of starch or flour 
u.se(l depend upon : 

(1) Percentage of starch in product used (comparison of 
wheat flour with wheat starch: wheat flour contains only 75 per 
cent starch, while wheat starch is practically 100 per cent 
starch). 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 17 

(2) Thickening j^ower of starches from different sources 
(compare any pure starches available, for example, cornstarch 
and arrowroot ; the same proportions give products of different 
consistencies). 

D. Method of combining sti'rch with liquid to prevent lumping. — 
When starch is added to hot liquids it tends to stick together in 
small lumps. The starch grains on the outside cook quickly and 
inclose in the interior uncooked grains of starch. This may be 
avoided by separating the grains of starch before combining with 
some other material. This may be accomplished by — 

(1) Mixing with sugar or any dry, finely ground solid. 

(2) Mixing with a small amount of cold liquid. 

(3) Mixing w^ith fat. 

The method used in a given recipe depends upon the other neces- 
sary ingredients. 

E. Choice of starch : 

(1) All starches are probably equally digestible. 

(2) Some tend to retain the raw starch flavor more than oth- 
ers, and therefore require a longer cooking (i. e., cornstarch). 

(3) The choice is usually determined by the availability, cost, 
and ease of cooking. 

F. Proportions used in typical dishes made from combinations of 
milk and starch: 

1. Starch puddings: 

A. Proportions. — One cup milk, 2 tablespoons sugar, flavoring, 4 
tablespoons flour (or equivalent in other starch). 

B. Method of combining. — The flour is combined with the sugar, 
or is mixed with a small amount of cold liquid, then added to the hot 
liquid. Cook until starch is thoroughly done. After bringing to boil 
over fire the cooking may be completed in a double boiler. 

C. Ways of serving. — Pour into a large mold or individual molds. 
Serve with cream, custard, or fruit. The pudding may be turned 
out of the mold when served, since it is sufficiently stiff to hold its 
shape. 

2. Cream sauces: 

A. Proportions — Medium sauce. — 1 cup liquid, 2 tablespoons flour, 
2 tablespoons fat, salt, pepper. 

Thick sauce. — Increase the flour to 3 or 4 tablespoons, depending 
upon use to which sauce is to be put. Keep other constituents the 
same. 

B. Method of combining. — Melt the fat, stir in the flour and sea- 
soning; add the milk slowly, stirring constantly, and cook until 
thick and the starch vrell done. 

C. Uses. — Thin sauce is used with potatoes or very starchy vege- 
tables. Medium sauce is used for creamed vegetables, creamed meats, 

128209°— 19 2 



18 USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 

or escalloped dishes. Thick sauce is used for the foundation of 
so utiles or for combining croquette materials. 

3. Cream soups, — Cream soups are a combination of milk and 
vegetable pulp, thickened to the consistency of thin cream: 

A. Proportions. — One cup liquid (combination of millv and vege- 
table pulp), 1 tablespoon flour, 1 tablespoon fat, salt, pepper, and 
other flavoring. The amount of flour varies with the thickness of the 
vegetable pulp. With the starch}' vegetables, the amount may be de- 
creased. Some flour is necessary (| teaspoon to 1 cup liquid) to bind 
the mixture and prevent the vegetable pulp from settling to the 
bottom. 

B. Method of combining.— Same as for cream sauce or as indicated 
under methods of combining starch. 

4. Action of dry heat on starch — toasting bread. When dry heat 
is applied to starch it is browned and changed chemically to a sub- 
stance called dextrin. This is the first stage in the digestion of starch. 
Bread so prepared is more readily digested than the untoasted bread. 

METHOD OF DEVELOriisG LABORATORY WORK. 

Have puddings prepared, using the different kinds of starches and 
compare the consistency. These can be prepared in family amounts 
and taken home for service. A small amount should be molded for 
comparison during the class period. Use different flavors, as vanilla, 
caramel, maple, and chocolate. Suggest the addition of nuts and 
raisins. 

The toast can be prepared as croutons for service with the cream 
soup, or white sauce may be prepared and served over the toast as 
cream toast, or creamed dried beef or codfish maj^ be serA'ed on toast. 
In case the women are not interested in the preparation of the white 
sauce, only the proportions m^ay be discussed and the sauce prepared 
later as it is needed for the vegetable lesson and others. 

All women Avill be interested in the cream soups. Show that these 
may be seasoned with the water discardea in cooking vegetables and 
left-over vegetables. Have soups prepared from vegetables with 
varying amounts of thickening power. Tabulate results so as to 
show how the amount of flour added decreases with the thickening 
power of the vegetable. 

CREAM TOAST. 

Make 1 cup of medium cream sauce and pour over 3 or 4 pieces of toasted 
bread. Chopped parsley or grated cheese may be sprinkled over tlie top. Sec- 
tions of hard-cooked egg may be lieated in the sauce and served on tlie toast 
for a breakfast or luncheon dish. 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 19 

CKEAM OF COB.\ SOUP. 

Milk, 11 cups. Flit, 1 tablespoon. 

Corn pulp, i cup. Salt, i teaspoon. 

Flour, 1 tablespoon. Popper, i teaspoon. 

Combine as directed for cream sauce. Potato, pea, or bean pulp may be 
used in the same proportion. Asparagus, lettuce, celery, or spiuacli may be 
used by doubling the amount of flour and fat. 

CREAM OF CELERY SOUP. 

Celery, 3 cups. Butter, 3 tablespoons. 

"Water, 1 pint. Flour, i cup. 

Milk, 2i cups. Salt. 

Onion, 1 slice. Pepper. 

Wash, scrape, cut into pieces, and cook celery in boiling water until soft. 
Rub through a sieve, scald the milk with the onion, remove onion, and add the 
celery pulp to the milk. Cook flour and butter together and add to celery 
mixture. Season with salt and pepper. 

CHOCOLATE CORNSiTAKCH PUDDING. 

Milk, 1 pint. Chocolate, i square. 

Sugar, ^ cup. Vanilla, i teaspoon. 

Cornstarch, 4 tablespoons. Salt, few grains. 

Heat the milk, add melted chocolate and sugar. JMoisteu the corn.starch fn 
a little cold milk ; add to hot mixture and cook until thoroughly done ; remove 
from the fire and add vanilla. Serve with plain or whipped cream. 

CREAMED DRIED BEEF. 

Dried beef, sliced i pound. Medium white sauce, 1 cup. 

Remove skhi and separate meat into small pieces. Cover with lukewarm 
water; let stand 10 minutes and drain. Add white sauce and cook in double 
boiler 10 minutes . 

CREAMED CODFISH. 

Salt codfish, J cup. 1 egg. 

Medium white sauce, 1 cup. 

Soak codfish to remove salt and boil 30 minutes or until tender. Pick into 
small flakes. (If flaked codfish is used, the above steps should be omitted.) 
Add codfish to the white sauce. Heat well, and add the beaten egg just before 
serving. 



Lesson 2. Breakfast Cereals. 

AIM. 



To show tlie food value and comparative cost of cereal breakfast 
foods and to give suggestions as to the best methods of preparation. 



20 USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 

POINTS TO BE BROUGHT OUT. 

1. Food value — Importance of cereals in the diet. — Cereals in some 
form furnisli almost one-third of the food used in the United States. 
They are important because — 

A. They furnish one of the cheapest sources of energy. This is 
supplied by their high starch content. Avhich averages 70 per cent of 
the grain. 

B. They furnish a considerable amount of building material since 
they contain from 7 to 12 per cent protein; 42 per cent of the frotein 
of the average diet is furnished by cereals. 

C. They contain mineral ^natter and also certain other substances 
necessary for health and growth. These are found principally in 
the outer coats and germ of the grain. 

D. They furnish desirable bulk in the diet, especially when the 
coarser or bran-containing cereal preparations are used. 

2. Comparative food value of some typical breakfast foods: 

A. All the principal grains are used in the preparation of cereal 
breakfast foods. Generally speaking, they differ very little in com- 
position. Wheat has no advantage over other cereals as a breakfast 
food for either adults or cliildren except from the standpoint ot 
flavor. The uncooked cereals have more food value per pound than 
the ready-to-serve cereals. The preparations containing the whole 
grains furnish more mineral matter than those containing grains 
with the outer coats removed. 

3. Cereal breakfast foods are prepared from the grains. They 
vary in composition according to : 

A. Kind of cereal used.— Oats, wiieat, corn, barley, and rice are the 
ones most frequently used, in the order named. When the whole grain 
is used, the composition of cereal food corresponds to that of the grain. 

B. Part of the grain used. — All grains have three parts: (1) the 
bran portion, principally cellulose and mineral matter; (2) the 
endosperm portion, which is largely starch; and (3) the germ, 
Avhich contains large amounts of fat and protein. The rejection of 
certain parts of the grain in the preparation of breakfast food may 
bring about greater ditferences in composition than the selection of 
different grains. 

C. Methods of treatment: 

(1) Milling determines fineness of division. The comioosition 
may be changed in milling by the rejection of certain portions 
of the grain. 

(2) /Steaming partially cooks the starch and decreases the 
time iiecessary for cooking. 

(3) Drj/ heat dextrinizes part of the starch. The flaked 
ready-to-serve cereals have been so prepared. 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 



21 



(4) Puffed cereals t\re preijared by sudden action of heat 
which hydrates the starch and causes the grain to pulf. The 
dry outer portions are dextrinized. 

(5) Malting and predigest'ing have taken phice in case of 
certain cereal preparations. 



Composition of typical breakfast cereals. 

[Adapted from South Dakota Agricultural Experiment Station Bulletin 16S, "Breakfast 
Foods and Their Relative Value."] 



Description. 



Water. 



Pritein. 


Fat. 


Per cent. 


Per cent. 


18.81 


7.84 


11.00 


.91 


13.31 


2.19 


12.50 


.44 


7.87 


.26 


8.25 


.26 



Carbohy- 
drate. 



Ash. 



Rolled Oats .... 
Cream of Wheat 

Pettijohns 

Orapenuts 

Corn Flakes 

Puffed Rice 



Per cent. 
6. 55 
8.66 
6.96 
2.75 
4.32 
7.18 



Per cent. 
66.93 
78.59 
73.81 
81.59 
85.71 
83.70 



Per cent. 
1.70 
.44 
1.68 
1.3S 
1.38 
.31 



4. Cost of breakfast cereals : 

A. Cost is not determined by the food value but by the process of 
manufacture and the value of the trade name. 

B. The uncooked cereals are the least expensive, but the ready-to- 
serve are sometimes the more convenient. In comparing the cost of 
the two kinds, the fuel, time, and labor necessary for preparation 
should be considered. 

C. The weight of the contents of the package rather than the bulk 
should be the guide in economical buving. 



Table shotving comparative cost per pound of typical breakfast cereals. 

[Adapted from South Dakota Agricultural Experiment Station Bulletin 168, " Breakfast 
Foods and Their Relative Value."] 



Kind of breakfast cereal. 



Rolled Oats 

("ream of Barley, 
("roam of Wheat. , 

Pettijohns 

Cream of Rye 

Corn Flakes 

Crumbles 

Grapenuts , 

Shredded Wheat , 
Puffed Rice 



Condition. 



Raw 

do 

do 

do 

do 

Ready to serve. 

do 

do 

do 

do 



Price per 


Price per 


package. 


pound. 


Cents. 


Cents. 


10 


7.2 


15 


8.1 


15 


8.6 


15 


9.9 


15 


11.7 


10 


13.6 


10 


14.9 


15 


15.8 


15 


19.0 


15 


38.0 



5. Method of cooking: 

A. Cereals require long, slow cooking to soften the fiber, make the 
starch more digestible, and bring out the flavor. The finer cereal 
preparations should be cooked from one to three hours, the coarser 
ones from six to eight hours. There is no danger of overcooking. 



22 USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 

Either a double boiler or a fireless cooker is well suited to this 
purpose. 

B. When well cooked and well salted, no sugar is necessary with 
cereals. If desired, fresh or dried fruits may be served with them. 

C. In cooking the finely ground cereals they must be added care- 
fully to the hot water to prcA^ent lumping. 

6. Economical use of left-over cereals. — Left-over cereals should 
never be thrown awaj'. They may be used in any of the following 
ways : 

A. Reheat and serve as cereal. The extra cooking is an improve- 
ment. 

B. Allow to set in molds and serve cold with fresh or stewed fruit 
or cream as a dessert. 

C. Use as a basis for puddings. 

D. Use as a thickening for soups, gravy, or stews. 

E. Add to dressing for poultry, rabbits, fish, or meats. 

F. Substitute for part of the flour and liquid in muffins or griddle 
cakes. 

G. Combine with meat, cheese, or vegetables in escalloped dishes 
or baked croquettes. 

H. Slice, dip in crumbs or cornmeal, saute and serve with sirup 
or fruit sauce. 

METHOD OF DEVELOPIXG LABORATORY WORK. 

Have on display the amounts of typical breakfast foods which are 
equivalent in food value and the cost of each. Let the women com- 
pare these and see which cereals give the most food value for the 
least money. 

Let the students compare a cereal cooked overnight with one 
cooked half an hour and note the ditference in texture and flavor. 
Have on hand some left-over cereal to be prepared in the various 
ways suggested under 6. 

Typical breakfast foods should be prepared following directions 
on packages. 



Lesson 3. Rice, Hominy, and Barley. 

AIM. 

To teach the composition, method of cooking, and uses of rice, 
hominy, and pearled barley. 

POINTS TO be brought out. 

1. Composition. — Rice, hominy, and pearled barley are cereals very 
similar in composition and use. 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 

[Adapted from " Food Products," by Shcrman.I 



23 



Description. 



Water. 



Protein. 



Fat. 



Carbo- 
hydrate. 



Ash. 



Calories 
jmr pound 



Rioe, polished. 
Rice, inowii... 
Pearled barley 
Hoininv 



Per cent. 
12.34 
11.88 
11.30 
11.80 



Per cent. 
7.18 
8.02 
8.50 
8.3 



Per cent. 

0.26 

1.90 

1.1 

.6 



Per cent. 
79.3 
7a. 
77.8 
79.0 



Per cent. 
0.46 
1.15 
1.3 

.30 



1,591 



1,61.'^ 

I, COS 



A. Rice : 

(1) Polished rice — the form usually found in the murket. 
The bran coat has been entirely removed. This reduces the 
essential food constituents and should be taken into considera- 
tion where the main staple of the diet is rice. 

(2) Brown rice — a form which is less generally known. A 
part of the bran layer is retained, which gives this type of rice 
more flavor and increases the essential food con.stituents. 

(3) Broken rice — same as the polished rice, only the grains 
are less perfect, many of them being broken in poli.shing. The 
price is lower than that of the perfect grains, but the food value 
is as high. 

B. Hominy grits. — A corn product in which the bran and germ 
are removed and the grain crushed to varying degrees of fineness. In 
many parts of the countrv hominy is confused with samp, which is 
tlie whole grain from which bran and germ have been removed, 
generally bj' treatment with lye. 

C. Pearled barley. — Made from the uncrushed barley grain with 
the genn and a part of the bran removed. 

2. Use in the diet: 

A. On account of their coarser form, these products are used not so 
much as breakfast cereals as a main dish. In using them the follow- 
ing points should be considered : 

(1) They furnish energy on account of their high starch con- 
tent. 

(2) The}' are low in protein, so should be served with foods 
high in this constituent. 

(3) They are all low in fat, and hence this must be supplied 
from other foods. 

(4) When cooked, these products absorb water, so that the 
composition of the cooked cereal is very similar to that of Irish 
potatoes, each furnishing about 400 calories per pomid. There- 
fore thej^ are frequenth' substituted for potatoes in the meal. In 
making such substitution it must be remembered that these 
cereals lack the large amount of mine7'al matter which is present 
in the potatoes, and this must be supplied from other foods. 



24 USE AND PEEPAEATION 01' FOOD. 

3. Points to be considered in cooking: 

A. Time required. — Varies with the composition, structure, and 
fineness of division. Eice may be cooked in 20-30 minutes over direct 
heat, or in half an hour in a double boiler; pearl barley or hominy 
grits should be cooked six to eight hours in a double boiler or over- 
night in a fireless cooker. 

B. Liquid used. — This may be water, milk, stock, or juice from 
vegetables, such as tomatoes. Eice, hominy, and barley will absorb 
four to five times their volume of liquid in cooking. 

C. In the case of rice, if it is desired to have the grains separate 
and distinct, this may be accomplished by : 

(1) Cooking in a large amount of rapidly boiling liquid until 
tender, pouring off the liquid (this contains nutrients, hence 
should be used for stews, soups, etc.), and steaming for a few 
minutes. 

(2) Cooking in a smaller amount of liquid in a tightly-closed 
vessel over low fire to prevent scorching. When tender and the 
liquid absorbed, the cover is removed and the rice allowed to 
steam until the grains are distinct. Do not stir during the 
cooking process. There is no loss of nutrients by this method. 

4. Suggestions for combining with other foods : 

A. These foods are bland in flavor, hence they need to be com- 
bined with or served with highly-flavored foods. 

B. They are low in fat, hence fat should be added in cooking 
or in seasoning. 

C. They are low in protein ; therefore they may be combined with 
protein-rich foods, such as cheese, meat, or fish. 

D. They are low in minerals and essential food constituents ; there- 
fore should be served with milk, green vegetables, or fruit. 

E. They are soft, hence should be served with crisp foods. 

5. Suggestions for serving: 

A. As a main dish, combined with meat, cheese, nuts, eggs, or 
vegetables, escalloped, or made into croquettes or a loaf. Such dishes 
may be used as meat savers. 

B. With butter, as a starch}^ ^•egetable or as a substitute for bread. 
So used they are wheat savers. 

C. In soups, to increase their nutritive value. 

D. With milk or cream as a cereal (hominy, rice, or barley). 

E. Cooked rice, hominy, or barley may be used to take the place 
of a part of the flour and liquid in breads. (See Lessons 1 and 2.) 

F. Eice, hominy, and barley may be used in desserts with fruits, 
milk, eggs, etc. 

G. Hominy may be reheated by sauteing. This increases the 
flavor. 



USE AND PREPAEATION OF FOOD. 25 

METHOD OF DEVELOPIXG LABORATORY WORK. 

The different forms of rice, barley, and hominy should be on hand, 
with price of each. If any of these are not to be obtained on the 
local market, investigate the possibility of supplying them through 
local merchants. Compare equivalent amounts of these products ami 
Irish potatoes, discuss the comparative prices and the possibility of sub- 
stituting the cereals for potatoes when the latter are scarce and high. 

The women should cook rice by the two methods suggested and 
compare the results for (1) nutritive value, (2) appearance, (3) ease 
in preparation. 

Hominy or barley may be prepared beforehand by some member of 
the class and brought to class to be used in the preparation of the 
dishes which are demonstrated. Ask to have meals planned in which 
the main dish is made from rice, hominy, or barley. 

HOMINY MEAT CAKES. 

Cookecl hominy grits, 2 cups. Salt. 

Cooked meat, h cup. Pepper. 

Miuced onion, 1 tablespoon. Milk or stools to moisten if necessary. 

Form into cakes, brown in fat or brush with melted fat and brown in the 
even. 

BICE AND SALMON CROQUETTES. 

Cooked rice, 1 cup. Thick white sauce, 1 cup. 

Salmon or other fish, 1 cup. Salt. 

Minced parsley, 1 tablespoon. Pepper. 

Combine, form into croquettes, dip in egg and crumbs, and brown in the oven. 

SCALLOPED BAELEY WITH TOMATOES. 

Cooked barley, 2 cups. Chopped onions, 2 tablespoons. 

Cooked tomatoes, 1 cup. Butter substitute, 2 tablespoons. 

Salt. Flour, 2 tablespoons. 
Pepper. 

Melt the butter substitute. Stir in the flour and seasoning and add the 
tomatoes and onion. Cook until thick. Pour into a baking dish alternate layers 
of the barley and sauce, cover with crumbs, and brown in the oven. 

HOMINY PUDDING. 

Cooked hominy grits, 1 cup. Coconut, i cup. 

Milk, 1 cup. Vanilla, i tablespoon. 

Sugar, ^ cup. Salt. 

] egg. 

Bake in individual molds in a moderate oven. 



Lesson 4. The Use and Preparation of Macaroni and Tapioca. 



AIM. 



To teach the preparation of macaroni and tapioca and their use 
in the diet. 



26 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 



POINTS TO BE BROUGHT OCT. 

1. Composition. — Macaroni and the wheat pastes are prepared 
from a flour high in gluten, and are, therefore, higher in protein 
than the average cereal food. Macaroni, spaghetti, and vermicelli 
differ primarily in the form in which they appear. Tapioca is pre- 
pared from an almost pure ^arch, so its composition is chiefly 
t((phohydrate. -. 

[Adapted from " Food Pioducts," by Sherman.] — ,. •- 



Description. 



Macaroni. 
Spaghetti. 
Tapioca.. 



Water. 



Per cent. 
10.3 
10.6 
11.4 



Protein. 



Per cent. 
13.4 
12.1 

.4 



Fat. 



Per cent. 

0.9 

.4 

.1 



Carbo- 
hydrate. 



Per cent. 
74.1 
76.3 

88. 



Ash. 



Per cent. 

1.3 

.6 

.1 



Calories 
per pound. 



1,02.5 
1,620 

1,008 



2. Food value: 

A. Furnishes considerable amounts of energy, chiefly from the 
carbohydrate x^resent. 

B. Building material — • 

(1) Protein is present in considerable amounts in macaroni 
and wheat pastes. The amount in tapioca is negligible. 

(2) The mineral, is low; therefore, these should be combined 
Avith foods high in mineral. 

(3) Fat is low, so should be added in preparation or service. 

(4) Low in essential food constituents. 

3. Place in the diet: 

A. In combination with protein-high foods, as cheese and eggs, 
to be served as chief dish of meal. 

B. In place of starchy vegetables. 

C. With sugar and fruit or egg as dessert. 

4. Points to keep in mind in use : 

A. They are low in minerals, so should be used with foods rich in 
minerals, as milk, eggs, cheese, and fruit. 

B. They are low in fat, so fat should be added or served in same 
meal. 

C. They are low in flavor, but permit good flavor to carry or ex- 
tend when added to them. 

5. Methods of cooking: 

A. Boil to thoroughly cook the starch. 

B. Cook in rapidly boiling water to prevent becoming gummy. 

C. Combine with flavoring material after starch is thoroughly 
cooked. 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 27 

METHOD OF DEVKLOl'ING LAHOK.VTOKY WORK. 

Prepare dishes from the above materials, illustrating the (lifTerent 
ways in which they may be used. Compare as to cost and food vahw 
with meat-saving, starchy, and dessert dishes. 

BAKEU MAt'AKONI AND ( HEESK. 

INIilk, 1 flip. Cooked macaroni, 2 cui)3. 

Fat, 1 tablespoon. Grated cheese, i cup. 

Flour, 1 tablespoon. Salt, 1 teaspoon. 

Make a sauce of tlie milk, fat, flour, and salt. Arrange the macaroni and 
cheese in alternate layers. Pour over them the white sauce and bake 20 min- 
utes in a moderate oven. Paprika may be added for seasoning. 

MACAKONI AND TOMATOES. 

Macaroni, * package. Tomatoes, 1 cud. 

Medium white sauce, 1 cup. Bread crumbs. 

Grated cheese, 4 tablespoons. Salt and pepper. 

Break the macaroni into half-inch pieces and cook in boiling salted water 
until tender. Drain and blanch. Cover with the white sauce seasoned with 
salt, pepper, and cheese. Beginning with a layer of macaroni, jilace alternate 
layers of macaroni and tomatoes in the baking dish, having macaroni covered 
witli buttered bread crumbs on top. Bake until thoroughly heated through and 
browned on top. 

APPLE TAPIOCA PUDDIXG. 

Pearl tapioca, 1 cup. Lemon juice, 2 tablespoons. 

Boiling water, 3 cups. 5 medium-sized apples. 

Sugar, i cup. Salt, 3 teaspoon. 

Pick over and wash the tapioca ; add the water, salt, and sugar and cook ia 
the double boiler until transparent. Pare and core the apples, or slice them, 
sweeten if desii'ed ; place in a baking dish and pour over them the tapioca to 
which the lemon juice has been added. Bake until the apples are thoroughly 
cooked. Serve plain, with sugar and cream, or with whipped cream. 

BUTTERED CUl'MBS. 

1 part fat. 8 parts crumbs. 

Melt fat and stir in crumbs quickly so as to mix evenly. 



Lesson 5. Beverages. 

AIM. 

To teach the use and method of preparation of tea, coffee, chocolate, 
and cocoa. 

POIMTS TO BE UROUGHT OUT. 

1. Composition: 



28 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 



A. Coffee is an infusion or percolation of the coffee bean, composed 
of soluble constituents of the bean. The most essential constituents 
are the stimulating portion (the caffeine) and the volatile oils which 
give the characteristic odor and flavor. There is also some tannin 
present, the amount depending upon the method of preparation. For 
those who like the flavor of coffee, but find its stimulating action 
liarmful, there are decaffeinized coffees on the market. From these 
the caffeine has been almost completely removed by special com- 
mercial processes. 

B. Tea is an infusion of the leaf of the tea plant and contains a 
stimulant (theine), which is the same as caffeine in coffee, and also 
volatile flavoring substances and tannin. The grade of tea depends 
upon the kind of leaf used, the most desirable tea, known as flowery 
pekoe, being nuide from the youngest bud leaves on the twig; the 
next grade, orange pekoa, being the leaves next to the bud; and so on. 
Green tea is made from the tea leaves, steamed and dried. Black 
tea has passed through a process of fermentation which changes its 
taste and color, 

Coiiiixiraiivc compoaitioii of grccii and black teas. 



Kind. 


Thcinc. 


Tiumlc 
acid. 


Green 


Per cent. 
1.7 
2.3 


Per cent. 
16.8 


Black 


15.2 







C. Chocolate and cocoa are beverages prepared by the addition of 
these materials to a liquid, so that the composition of the beverage 
is a composite of the composition of the two. When milk is used 
as the liquid, the food value of the beverage is materially increased. 
Chocolate and cocoa are preparations made from the ground cocoa 
bean, the principal difference in composition being that chocolate 
retains a large amount of fat, while approximately one-half the fat 
is removed from cocoa. There is a small amount of a stimulant 
(theobromine) in both. 

The chemical composition is as follows: 



[From "Food Products/' by Sherman.] 



Material. 


Water. 


Protein. 


Fat. 


Carbo- 
hydrate. 


Ash. 


Calories 
per pound. 




Per cent. 
4.6 
5.9 


Per cent. 
21.6 
12.9 


Per cent. 
28.9 

48.7 


Per cent. 
37.7 
30.3 


Per cent. 
7.2 
2.2 


2 256 




2 772 







USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 29 

2. Use in the diet: 

A. Coffee and tea have no food vahie in themselves, but any food 
value must come from the sugar and cream which are served with 
them. They are used in the diet — 

(1) As a stimuhint. 

(2) To furnish flavor. 

B. Chocolate and cocoa are used — 

(1) For food value. 

(2) To furnish flavor. 

C. Danger of depending upon a stimulant. — Coffee and tea are 
both nerve stimulants which people may easily learn to depend 
upon and use to the exclusion of other things. They should never 
be allowed to take the place of articles with real food value. 

D. Coffee and tea should never be given to children. They fur- 
nish an undesirable stimulant and are liable to be used in place of 
essential foods, such as milk. 

E. Food value depends upon sugar and cream added. 
8. Points to be considered in the preparation of coffee : 

A. Infusion or percolation. — 

(1) The aim should be to extract the soluble flavoring con- 
stituents wdth the smallest percentage of caffeine and tannin. 

(2) The flavor is volatile; therefore, long cooking at boiling 
point should be avoided. 

(3) Extraction at a low temperature removes a larger pro- 
portion of undesirable ingredients, hence should be avoided. 

(4) Quick extraction just below the boiling temperature gives 
coffee with the best flavor and the least amount of undesirable 
ingredients. 

B. Grinding. 

(1) The fineness-is important in relation to the method used in 
making and the percentage extraction desired. Medium fineness 
is desirable for boiled coffee, finer for drip or percolated coffee. 

C. Proportion. 

(1) One rounding tablespoonful or two level tablespoonfuls to 
one cup of water. 

D. Methods. 

(1). Boiling. — By this method the ground coffee is mixed with 
a little cold water, the boiling water is added, and the coffee 
allowed to boil for three minutes, then stand five minutes in a 
warm place to settle. Crushed eggshell or egg wliite in the pro- 
portion of one eggshell or one teaspoonful of egg white to a 
cup of ground coffee may be mixed with the ground coffee 
and serves to clear the beverage. When the liquid coffee is al- 
lowed to stand upon the grounds after it is made, a larger pro- 
portion of the undesirable ingredients are extracted. 



30 USE AND PREPAKATION^ OF FOOD. 

(2) Drip coffee. — Drip coffee is prepared by pouring water 
at the boiling temperature over pulverized coffee in a thick bag 
or double strainer in a pot specially prepared to keep the coffee^ 
hot. The coffee may be poured through a second time if a 
stronger brew is desired. The coffee prepared in this way is 
specially palatable and, according to experiments, is more eco- 
nomical from the standpoint of the amount of coffee required. 

(3) Percolated coffee. — This is made in a special pot where 
the boiling water passes through the ground coffee but does not 
stand upon it. The strength of the coffee can easily be con- 
trolled. This method gives a clear coffee with a good flavor 
and with a small percentage of harmful substances. 

4. Points to be considered in the preparation of tea : 

A. Infusion. 

(1) Just below the boiling point is desirable for flavor. 

(2) Boiling or long standing draws out the tannin, which 
makes the tea bitter and injures the lining of the stomach. 

B. Proportion. One-half teaspoonful tea to one cup of water. 

C. Method. Heat water until it boils rapidly, pour over or add 
the tea leaves, let stand three to five minutes (depending upon the 
strength desired), and pour off. 

5. Points to be considered in the preparation of chocolate and 
cocoa : 

A. Plow to combine smoothly. (Note the large proportions of 
fat and starch.) 

B. Boiling temperature is necessary to cook the starch present, to 
thicken the beverage, and to develop flavor. 

C. Separation on standing can be prevented in part by thickening 
with a small amount of additional starch, in the proportion of one- 
fourth teaspoonful to one cup of liquid. When made with milk, 
the formation of a scum on top can be prevented by cooking in a 
covered vessel or beating vigorously with a Dover beater just before 
serving. 

D. The proportions vary with the flavor desired. An average 
amount is one level teaspoon cocoa or one-fourth ounce square of 
chocolate to one cup of liquid. 

METHOD or DEVELOriXG LABORATORY WORK. 

Plave on hand samples of tea, coffee, chocolate, and cocoa, show- 
ing different grades. Discuss (a) fair price, (h) grades desirable 
for general home use, (r) economical form in Avhich to purchase 
for home use; i. e., ground or unground, roasted or green coffee, 
bulk or package tea, quantity of chocolate or cocoa. 

Have the women discuss the methods of preparation they prefer. 
Using the different methods, each beverage should be prepared, and 
the results compared. 



USE AND PKEPARATIOISr OF FOOD. 31 



COCOA. 



Mix the cocoa and susar with a small amount of water aiid bring to a boil. 
Add the milli and heat to boiling. Beat to form foam on top. 



Lesson 6. The Breakfast Menu. 

AIM. 

To offer suggestions for the planning of economical breakfast 
menus which meet the needs of those engaged in different occupa- 
tions. 

POINTS TO BE BROUGHT OUT. 

1. Serve as few dishes as possible. This saves time required for 
preparation. 

2. Serve the breakfast attractively. This aids digestion. 

3. Suit the kind and amount of food to the needs of those to 1)0 
served. This avoids waste of left-over food, and does away with the 
danger of under-nourishnient or overeating. 

Light breakfat^t. Medium breakfast. Heavy breakfast. 

P^ruit. Fruit. Fruit or cereal or both. 

Cereal. Cereal. One hearty dish, .such a.s 

Beverage. Bread and butter. creamed meat or eggs. 

Beverage. Bread and butter. 

Beverage. 

METHOD OF DEVELOPING LABORATORY WORK. 

This lesson should be used as a review lesson, in which the stu- 
dents plan and, if possible, prepare breakfasts which will put into 
practice the important points of the preceding lessons. Emphasize 
the opportunities to use cereals intelligently. Stress the use of 
local products, especially the use of fruit, fresh, canned, or dried. 
Have the women show how the menus selected could be changed to 
light, medium, or heavy breakfast, according to the occupation of 
the people to be served. HaA^e them plan breakfasts for a week 
for their families, taking into consideration the needs of the differ- 
ent members and considering also the economical use of food, fuel, 
time, and energy. 

REFERENCES. 

United States Department of Agriculture; 

Farmers' Bulletin 249. Cereal Breakfast Foods. 

Farmers' Bulletin 817. How to Select Foods; Cereal Foods. 



UNIT II. 

Fruits and Vegetables. 

Lessox 1. The Value or Fruits and Vegetables in the Diet : Ways 
or UsixG Fresh Fruit. 

aim. 

To show the food vahie of fruits and vegetables in the diet and 
to suggest appetizing ways of serving fruit. 

points to be brought out. 

1. Composition and nutritive value. — Fruits and vegetables are 
valuable in the diet because — 

A. They contain relatively large amounts of mineral matter^ espe- 
cially iron and calcium. Without plenty of fruits and vegetables, 
the diet is likely to be lacking in these important substances. 

B. They contain important dietary constituents, the green leaf 
vegetables especially being valuable sources of a substance essential 
for proper nutrition. 

C. Most fruits and vegetables contain little jirotem. Many fruits 
and vegetables contain sufficient starch or sugar to make them valu- 
able as sources of energy. Potatoes, sweet potatoes, and underripe 
bananas are about one-fifth starch. Peas, beans, and lentils contain 
a considerable amount of starch. Both fresh and dried fruits contain 
sugar. (See Unit II, Lesson 2.) 

Average amount of sugar present in some fruits : 

Per cent. 

Apricots -, 8. 78 

Apples 14 

Cherries 10 

Figs (fresh) , 11.55 

Grapes 17. 26 

Gooseberries 6. 40 



Per cent. 

Lemons 1. 47 

Oranges . 8. .58 

Pears 8. 78 

Pineapples 13. 31 

Plums 1. 99 

Raspberries 7. 23 

D. The olive and the avocado (alligator pear) are high in fat^ but 
other fruits contain little or no fat. 

E. Most fruits and vegetables have a large amount of water. 
Berries, melons, and the leafy vegetables, such as cabbage or spinach, 
are more than nine-tenths water. 



32 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 83 

F. The large amount of cellulose present gives bulk to the diet, 
and, together with certain mild acids, aids in preventing constipa- 
tion. 

G. Both fruits and vegetables are useful in furnishing flavor in the 
diet and in giving a varied texture to the meals. 

2. Amount and kind to be used; 

A. Since fruits and vegetables supply substances necessary for 
health which are not furnished in sufficient quantities in other foods, 
at least a small amount should be eaten every day, and much larger 
quantities may be used at seasons when they are abundant and cheap. 
Leaf vegetables are called " protective foods " because where used 
in an otherwise restricted diet they furnish the substances necessary 
for adequate nutrition. 

B. Dried' fruits are usually more economical than canned fruits 
and at some seasons of the year are more economical than fresh 
fruits. Fresh fruit out of season is not only high in price, but often 
poor in flavor. 

3. Ways of using fruits. — Although there are endless variations in 
the ways of using fruit, the following suggestions will shjow the 
general uses: 

A. As a preliminary course to a meal the flavor and the acid are 
an aid to digestion. Fresh fruits or fruit, simply cooked, are suitable 
for this purpose. In this case they should not be too sweet or the 
appetite is dulled. 

B. As an accompaniment to a meat course. — Cooked tart fruits, 
such as cranberries, rhubarb, gooseberries, green-apple sauce, or a 
iruit ice. 

C. As a salad. (See Unit V, Lesson 5.) 

D. As a sweet with bread. — Stewed dried fruit, preserves, jelly, 
or jam. 

l-^. In breads, cakes, or cookies. — Fruit muffins, apple-sauce cake, 
fruit cake, dried-fruit cookies. 

F. As a dessert: 

(1) Fresh fruit, alone or in combination. 

(2) Fresh or cooked fruits in pies and tarts or shortcakes. 

(3) Fresh or cooked fruit in gelatin, cornstarch, or tapioca 

puddings, with bread crumbs or cereal desserts or cus- 
tards. 

(4) Fresh or cooked fruit in ice or ice cream. 

(5) In candies. — Fresh fruits crystallized or candied, dried 

fruits used in candies. 

G. Canned, stewed, or dried fruit may be used on breakfast 
cereals. 

128209°— 19 3 



34 USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 

4. Points in cooking fruit. — Fruits should be used fresh, unless it 
is necessary to cook them to soften the cellulose; to cook the starch 
(in the case of some unripe fruits such as bananas), to improve the 
flavor, or to preserve them. In cooking the following points should 
be noted : 

A. Sugar and mineral matter of the fruit are soluble. Use only :i 
small amount of water in cooking and serve it with the fruit. 

B. Where possible the skins should be retained since they have 
dietetic value. When softened by cooking they will be palatable. 

C When it is desirable to retain the shape of fruit in cooking it 
should be added to a hot sirup or sugar added at the beginning. 
If it is to be cooked into a sauce, it is cooked in hot water until soft 
and sweetening added last. 

5. Methods of serving fresh fruit. — As a general rule, the fruit 
should be thoroughly cleansed, w^ll chilled, and served attractively 
in such form that it can be eaten with little additional preparation. 
For most fruits the simplest ways of serving are the best. 

6. Points to be considered in buying fruit: 

A. Use fruits in season; not only are they cheaper but better in 
quality at that time. By following the market quotations for the 
fruits shipped in, it is frequently possible to tell when is the best time 
to buy. The fair-price list should show this. When the market is 
glutted with some fruits, as bananas and pineapples, they are some- 
times sold directly from cars without the intervention of the middle 
man, and the price is considerably reduced. 

B. Buy in quantity the fruits which may be held, if storage facili- 
ties permit. Buy citrous fruit by the box or half box. Apples may be 
bought in the fall and placed in storage, as the total cost is much less 
than the winter price of apples. Cooperative buying is an advantage, 
and a barrel of apples may be used by several families before danger 
of deterioration. 

C. Buy from a producer whenever possible. Not only must the 
services of the middle man be paid for, but an extra charge must be 
made to insure against risk in spoilage. The grocer who handles 
fruit as a side line must expect more protit from this line than others 
on this account. 

METHOD or DEVELOPING LABORATORY WORK. 

This lesson may include a comparison of fresh, dried, and canned 
fruit as to economy, ease of preparation, and palatability. Discuss 
the fresh fruits which are most economical (waste should be taken 
into consideration) at a different season of the year. Discuss the 
fruits most available in fresh condition at the time the lesson is 
given and suggest seasonable fruits which may be used at other 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 35 

times, pointing out the cheapest and the most expensive kinds of 
fruits. Stress the value of the different fruits in the diet and the 
wisdom of including them even at a comparatively high price. 
Suggest ways of serving fresh fruit. 
(a) Alone. 
(h) In combination. 
((?) With other foods. 
Prepare one or more fresh-fruit desserts. 

In choosing the recipes to be demonstrated, those should be selecto-;! 
\vhich will offer more unusual methods of preparing or serving fruxtb. 

GRAPEFRUIT. 

Cut iu halves, crosswise. With a sharp liiiife cut the pulp away from the 
sl<iii around the entire circumference; then separate the pulp from the skin, 
dividing the fruit into sections. Remove the core and sliin in one piece. 
Serve the pulp in the skin with or without sugar or with a few tablespoons of 
grape juice poured over it. Garnish with a sprig of mint or a candied cherry. 

WATERMELON. 

Cut into slices; remove the pink portion from the rind and cut into small 
dice. Pour over it a small amount of grape juice, let stand 30 minutes and 
serve cold. 

STUFFEI) PEAKS. 

Pare and core ripe pears. Fill the center with maple sugar and serve with 
cream. 

BERRIES. 

Wash ripe, firm berries. Drain well and chill. Serve on a plate arranged 
around a small mound of sugar. 

PINEAPPLE. 

Remove the crown, then cut into slices before paring. The paring may then 
be done with little difficulty and a minimum of waste. The eyes may be removed 
with a sharp knife or a pair of scissors. Serve in slices garnished with bits 
of marshmallow, or cut into small sections, and mix with equal parts of diced 
orange, canned or fresh pears, or bananas. A small amount of lemon juice 
sprinkled over the sliced bananas will prevent them from turning dark on 
standing. 

BAKED PEACHES. 

Select firm peaches, halve them without removing the peel, fill the centoi- 
with syrup, and bake until tender. Whole peaches may be baked, the seed giv- 
ing a pleasant flavor. 

BANANAS WITH SAUSAGE. 

Peel bananas, cut in two crosswise, and place in frying pan, alternating with 
sausage. Cook slowly on top of the stove or in the oven, basting occasionally 
until bananas are done and slightly browu. 



36 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 



Sliced apples may be cooked with sausage in the same manner, or they may 
be fried in bacon fat and served with bacon. To each medium-sized apple add 
a tablespoon of molasses, sugar, or sirup, to flavor and brown the apple. 

SHORTCAKE. 

Make a dough, using the proportion given for shortcake in the table of 
preparations for quick breads. (Unit VII, Lesson 1.) Roll to half an inch thick- 
ness, cut in small rounds, and bake. While hot, split and butter each piece and 
spread with a layer of crushed sweetened berries, peaches, or other fruit. Serve 
with plain or wliipped cream. 

APPLE SNOW, 

Whites of 2 eggs beaten stiff. 

Half cup apple sauce (sweetened to taste). 

Fold the hot apple sauce into the egg whites, chill and serve. 

FRUIT MOLD. 



Whipped cream, 1 cup. 
Milk, 2 cups. 



Minute tapioca, 6 level tablespoons. 
Sugar, i cup. 
Vanilla, 1 teaspoon. 

Heat milk in a double boiler. Add sugar and stir in the tapioca. Cook for 
30 minutes. Pour into a bowl to cool, then fold in the cream, whipped. Orna- 
ment with fresh fruit (cherries, berries, etc.), chill and serve. 



Lesson 2. The Use and Preparation of Dried Fruits. 

AIM. 

To show the comparatively high food value of dried fruit, palatable 
methods of preparation and their use in the diet. 

POINTS TO BE BROUGHT OUT. 

1. Dried fruits are concentrated foods; they contain all the food 
value of the fresh fruit. They are especially valuable as sources of 
mgar and mineral matter. 

Composition of some common dried fruits. 

[United States Department of Agriculture, Office of Experiment Stations, Bulletin 28.] 



Description. 


AVater. 


Protein. 


Carbo- 
hydrates 
(largely 
sugar). 


Mineral. 


Calorics 
per pound. 




Per cent. 
15.4 
IS.S 
22.3 
14.6 


Per cent. 
2.1 
4.. 3 
2.1 
2.6 


Per cent. 
78. 4 
74.2 
73.3 
76.1 


Per cent. 
1.3 
2.4 
2.3 
3.4 


1.615 


Figs 


1,475 




1.-10!! 




1 <iO.-i 







2. Dried fruits are especially good for children because they have 
along with the sugar valuable mineral constituents which are absent 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 37 

from refined sugar. The desire of children for candy and sweets 
might well be supplied by the use of more dried fruits. 

3. Those of the dried fruits which are richest in sugar and which 
contain the smallest amounts of fibrous cellulose are edible raw. 
These are dates, figs, currants, and raisins. They should always be 
sterilized by pouring boiling water over them or by steaming before 
eating, unless the}' are put up in sterilized packages, in which case 
the above precaution is unnecessary. When the dried fruit is to be 
cooked we have as our aims the softening of the fiber present, and 
in some cases the addition of sugar for flavor. We accomplish this 
by: 

A. Soaking to restore the water lost in drjdng. 

B. Slow cooking in the water in which soaked until tender and 
juice concentrated. 

C. Addition of smallest amount of sugar necessary to give the 
flinor desired without destroying the fruit flavor. 

4. Uses of dried fruits: 

A. As a substitute for fresh-fruit sauce. 

B. As a confection or cake filling. 

C. As a source of sugar and flavor in desserts. 

METHOD OF DEVELOPING LABORATORY WORK. 

Samples of all dried fruits available on the local market should 
be on hand with prices of each. If some are not available that 
should be, discuss the possibility of having them ordered by a local 
grocer. Suggest the home drying of fruits when they are available 
as a means of saving waste, and providing a valuable food for the 
winter. Samples of each fruit should be cooked according to method 
gnen in 3, and compared for flavor. Estimate the amount of sugar 
needed for those which are not sufficiently sweet. See that the flavor 
of the fruit is brought out and not masked by the sugar used. 
Show that sirup can be used instead of sugar in case of sugar shortage. 

Demonstrate or have the students prepare fruit paste by grinding 
a mixture of dried fruits (equal parts of figs, dates, and raisins or 
any other dried fruits available). Nuts may or may not be added. 
They had better be omitted if this confection is to be eaten by chil- 
dren. Moisten the paste Avith a small amount of sirup, and shape 
into squares or balls. These may be rolled in crushed nuts or dipped 
into melted chocolate. Thip paste may also be used as a cake filling. 

A dried-fruit dessert should be demonstrated, either one sug- 
gested below or a similar one. Have the students bring in recipes in 
wliich dried fruits are used and discuss possible modifications by 
substituting dried fruit for a portion or all of the sugar called for. 



38 USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 

PIJUNE WHIP. 

Whites, 4 eggs. Lemon juice, i tablespoon. 

Sugar, J cup. Prunes, i pound. 

Cook the prunes until soft. Rub through a sieve, making' a thick pulp. Stir 
in the sugar and lemon juice. Beat the egg whites stiflC, fold in the prune 
pulp, place in a buttered dish, and bake 20 minutes in a moderate oven. 

APKICOT SOUFFL^. 

3 eggs. Apricot pulp, 1 cup. 

Thick white sauce, 4 cup. Salt, i teaspoon. 

Sugar, i cup. 

Beat the egg yolks, add sauce, salt, sugar, and fruit pulp. Fold in the stiffly 
beaten whites and bake in a moderate oven. 

PEACH PASTE. 

Cook fruit until tender. Press through a sieve. Measure, and to each pound 
of pulp, allow 1 pound of powdered sugar. Cook together over a slow fire, watch- 
ing carefully to prevent scorching, until it begins to thicken. Cooking the pulp 
in a double boiler for the last part of the process will prevent scorching. Pour 
^-inch layers of the paste on the oiled surface of a flat dish or tray. Place in 
a current of air and allow to dry for two or three days. When it is dry, 
sprinkle with granulated sugar and form into a roll. 

PARISIAN SWEETS. 

Chop equal parts of figs, dates, and nuts together. Knead on a board dredged 
with confectioners' sugar until well blended. Roll to ^-inch thickness, cut into 
cubes or rounds, and dip each piece in confectioners' sugar. Store in tin boxes 
(A small amount of honey is an improvement.) 



Lesson 3. Ways of Preparing Potatoes. 

AIM, 

To show how to cook starchy vegetables so as to conserve their 
food value. 

POINTS TO BE BROUGHT OUT, 

1. Aim in cooking starchy vegetables is: 

A. To render more digestible by softening the cellulose and cook- 
ing the starch grains. 

B. To retain the mineral matter. 

C. To improve the flavor. 

2. Points to be considered in cooking: 

A. Moist heat is necessary to soften the cellulose and cook the 
starch. This may be obtained by cooking in steam or liquid or by 
api)lying dry heat to the outside if the vegetable oontaina sufficient 
water to furnish the necessary moisture. 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 39 

B. Much of the valuable mineral matter lies just beneath the skin^ 
therefore the largest amount of this is retained when the vegetable 
is cooked in the skin. 

C. If the vegetable is to be pared, the paring should be as thin as 
possible, so that the least amount of mineral is lost. 

D. Since the mineral matter is soluble, the water in which pared 
or sliced vegetables are cooked contains much food value. It should 
either be served with the vegetables or used in soups, gravy, sauces, 
etc. 

E. The flavor of the vegetable is both volatile and soluble, so may 
be retained by cooking with as little escape of steam as possible 
and by retaining the liquid in which the vegetable is cooked. 

3. Methods of cooking : 

A. Baking. — One of the most economical methods, but adapted 
chiefly to vegetables having an outside coat to hold in the steam and 
containing enough water to cook the starch and sof len the cellulose. 

B. Casserole cooking. — Similar to baking, the covered dish taking 
the place of the peel and retaining flavor and food value. 

C. Boiling. — A good method when the peel is left on during the 
cooking, or when only a small amount of liquid is used and this 
retained for food. 

D. Escalloping. — Suitable for the first cooking or for reheating 
left-over vegetables. The liquid is retained and the crumbs on top 
help to hold in the flavor and add additional flavor when browned. 

E. Frying. — Suited to very few vegetables, except as a method 
of preparing left-over dishes. In this case it is used to add flavor. 
The intense heat tends to overcook the outside before the inside is 
done, except when the vegetable is sliced very thin. 

F. Sauteing. — The temperature is somewhat higher than boiling. 
The fat used tends to soak into the vegetable and render it less di- 
gestible, but adds flavor by browning. 

4. Seasoning and serving : 

A. Vegetables are low in fat, hence the usual seasonings are some 
form of fat, added either in cooking or in serving; salt and pepper 
if desired. 

B. Sauce may be added, either a white sauce made of milk or 
one made with the liquid in which the vegetable was cooked. This 
retains the mineral and gives a more individual flavor to the 
vegetable. 

5. Special points to be kept in mind in cooking potatoes: 

A. The distinctive flavor is developed by preventing loss by solu- 
tion or volatilization, as in baking or cooking in skin. Dried 
boiled potatoes lose some food value and most of the distinctive 
flavor. 



40 USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 

B. After tender any excess water should be removed and steam 
allowed to escape to prevent potatoes becoming soggy. 

METHOD or DEVELOPING LABORATORY WORK. 

This lesson may be devoted entirely to the cooking of potatoes 
as a representative starchy vegetable. Have different students cook 
potatoes in the following ways: (1) Boiled in the skin; (2) pared 
and boiled whole; (3) sliced and boiled, discarding the water; (4) 
sliced and boiled, retaining the water. Mash, season similarly, and 
compare for flavor. Find out the average number of times a day 
potatoes are used in the homes of the students and stress in the 
lesson the desirability of correct methods in preparing a vegetable 
so frequently used and also the advantage of varying the methods 
of serving. Show how potatoes are similar in composition to bread 
and how the abundant use of them can help to save bcead when 
cereals are scarce. Have women compare food value of baked potato 
and slice of bread, rice, grits, and hominy. 

Note to teacher. — Adapt recipes prepared to needs of class. First aim to 
get good mashed or balked potatoes. Suggest fancy methods of preparation 
after more simple methods have been learned. 

BAICED potatoes. 

Wash carefully and place in a moderately hot oven. From 45 minutes to 
an hour is necessary for a medium-sized potato. Test by pressing between 
thumb and finger. When done prick with a fork to allow the steam to escape. 
If the potato is rubbed mth a small amount of fat before baking the skin will 
be softer than otherwise. 

POTATOES ON THE HAXF SHELL. 

Bake as directed above. When done remove the skin from the top and scrape 
out the potato, leaving a shell. Mash the potato with a small amount of 
cream and butter or substitute; season with salt and pepper. Fill the shells 
with the mixture and brown in the oven. Grated cheese may be sprinkled over 
the top if desired. 

SWEET POTATO AND NUT CAKES. 

Boil sweet potatoes until tender. Drain off the water, remove the skin from 
the potatoes, and mash them with a small amount of cream and a little sugar 
or maple sirup. They should be stiff enough to mold into small cakes. Brush 
the top of the cakes with butter or substitute. Sprinkle with chopped nuts 
and brown in the oven. 

POTATOES WITH CHEESE AND GREEN PEPPER. 

Sliced cooked potatoes, 2 cups. Grated cheese, i cup. 

Thick white sauce, 1 cup. Bread crumbs, i cup. 

1 chopped green pepper or canned 

pimento. 

Add the cheese and the chopped pepper to the sauce, mix with the potatoes, 
put Into a baking dish, cover with the bread crumbs, and brown in the oven. 



USE AND PEEPAEATION OF FOOD, 41 

POTATO HASH. 

Cooked potato, 3 cups. Pepper, i teaspoon. 

Cliopped cooked meat or fish, 2 cups. Fat, 3 tablespoons. 
Salt, 1 teaspoon. Boiling water, i cup. 

Melt the fat in a frying pan, add the potatoes and meat, mixed. Pour water 
over the top and cook slowly without stirring until the underside is browned. 
Fold as an omelet and serve hot. 

CASSEROLE SWEET POTATOES AND APPLES. 

Pare and slice the sweet potatoes and apples, using 1 medium-sized apple to 
2 potatoes. Place in a baking dish, sprinkle with a little brown sugar or add a 
small amount of sirup, pour over a cup of hot water, and bake covered until 
tender. Remove tlie cover, dot the top with bits of butter or substitute, and 
brown. 

CANDIED SWEET POTATOES. 

Boil and cut in halves medium-sized sweet potatoes, lay evenly in braising 
pan, baste with sirup and butter warmed together, sprinkle lightly with brown 
sugar, put in hot oven until brown, and serve in the sirup. 

POTATO AND BEAN CAKES. 

Boiled mashed potatoes, 1 cup. 1 small can pimentoes. 

Cooked mashed lima beans, 1 cup. Bread crumbs, i cup. 

Mix, season with salt and pepper, and form into cakes. Saut(3 in a small 
amount of hot fat or dip in egg and crumbs and brown in the oven. Serve witli 
tomato or cheese sauce. 

ESCALLOPED POTATOES. 

Four medium-sized potatoes. Wash, pare, and sh'ce very thinly until the bot- 
tom of the baking dish is covered. Over this layer sprinkle salt, pepper, dots of 
butter, and i tablespoon of flour. Add another layer of potatoes and proceed 
as before. When all the potatoes are used, sprinkle biittered crumbs over the 
top and add milk to nearly cover potatoes. Bake until tender. This amount 
will require about one hour for baking. 

WAYS OF USING LEFT OVERS. 

Left-over boiled or baked potatoes may be prepared as hashed-brown potatoes, 
in salad, or warmed in milk. 

Left-over mashed potatoes can be used in making biscuit or to make potato 
cakes. 



Lesson 4. Ways of Preparing Green Vegetables. 

AIM. 

To teach the principles underlying the cooking of green vegetables 
as they affect flavor and food values. 



42 USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 

POINTS TO BE BROUGHT OUT. 

1. Points in preparation: 

A. Most green vegetables lose their flavor rapidly after being 
gathered, therefore should be cooked as soon as possible after gath- 
ering. This is especially true of corn, beans, peas, and asparagus. 
Keeping in a cool place will help to prevent the change in flavor. 
When these vegetables must be held after gathering they can be 
cooked and then reheated at the time of serving. The French house- 
wife blanches all her vegetables when they come from the market. 
This wastes much of the mineral matter. 

B. Wilted vegetables should be freshened by standing in cold 
water before being cooked. 

C. Some parts of vegetables often discarded can be well used for 
food. 

(1) Outer leaves of lettuce, spinach, or cabbage, or the tops 
of spring onions may be cooked and used for soups. 

(2) Beet, turnip, or radish tops may be cooked and served as 
greens. Celery tops are good for flavoring. 

(3) Stalks of cabbage or chard or the outside leaf stalks of 
cauliflower should not be discarded; when cooked tender they 
are desirable for the bulk they add to the diet, and may be 
used to furnish flavor for soups, salads, etc. 

2. Points in cooking: 

A. Tender green vegetables containing no starch and little cellu- 
lose require no cooking. They are frequently used as salad. (See 
Unit V, Lesson 5.) 

B. Green vegetables containing a larger amount of cellulose or 
some starch may be rendered more palatable and in some cases more 
digestible by cooking in moist heat. Some vegetables, such as ten- 
der greens, or tomatoes, require no added water to cook them. 

C. Food value is preserved in cooking by (a) steaming or (h) 
cooking in a small amount of water, which is retained, so that there 
is no waste of mineral matter. 

D. Part of the flavor is volatile and passes off in the steam. This 
fact affects the method of cooking different vegetables. 

(1) Weak-flavored vegetables should be cooked in a small 
amount of water in a covered vessel, so that the flavor will be 
retained. 

(2) Strongly flavored vegetables should be cooked in an un-. 
covered vessel, so that a part of the flavor volatilizes during 
cooking. 

(3) Vegetables with excessively strong flavors may be cooked 
uncovered, in a large amount of water, which is poured off. 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 



43 



It should be remembered that this wastes the mineral matter 
and should not be done unless the water so removed is used to 
flavor soups. 

(4) Green vegetables retain their color better if copked un- 
covered. 
E, Overcooking of vegetables spoils the flavor and, in the case of 
some vegetables, the color. The time required for cooking varies 
with the kind, size, and age of the vegetables. 



Average time required for cooking vegetables in icater. 



Asparaeus 15 to 20 minutes. 

Beans, lima (green) I to 1 hour. 

Beans, string 1 to 3 hours. 

Beets, young f to 1 hour. 

Beets, old 3 to 4 hours. 

Cabbage 20 to 30 minutes. 

Carrots 30 to 60 minutes. 

Cauliflower 20 to 30 minutes. 



Corn, green 10 to 15 minutes. 

O nions 20 to 30 minutes. 

Parsnips 30 to 45 minutes. 

Peas, green 20 to 30 minutes. 

Potatoes 30 to 40 minutes. 

Spinach 15 to 30 minutes. 

Squash 20 to 30 minutes. 

Turnips 30 to 40 minutes. 



3. Seasoning and serving: 

A. Simple methods are usually to be preferred ; cooked tender and 
served with salt, pepper, and a little butter or other fat. This method 
preserves the individual flavor of the vegetable. 

B. Sauces may be used, but care should be taken not to mask the 
flavor of the vegetable and not to make the serving monotonous by 
using the same kind of sauce for all vegetables. 

C. For many vegetables, especially those containing large amounts 
of cellulose, an acid flavor is an improvement. Lemon juice or vine- 
gar may be added to a butter sauce and served with the vegetables. 

4. Canned vegetables: 

A. Availability. — The development of the canning industry has 
been very ^reat during the last few years. Canned vegetables of all 
kinds are now available at all times of the year. Most of these have 
been blanched in canning, and as the result of this the amount of 
mineral matter present has been lowered. Canned vegetables should 
not be used at times of the year and at such places as fresh vegetables 
are available because they are inferior to fresh vegetables in flavor 
and food value and are rarely more economical. During the seasons 
and at places when fresh vegetables are not available canned vege- 
tables offer a most valuable means of adding bulk and desirable 
mineral salts to the diet and of varying a diet which is otherwise 
very monotonous. In some communities the use of canned vegetables 
is restricted to certain kinds. A wider use of less well-known vane- 
tics should be encouraged. 

B. Preparation : 

(1) Retain the liquid; it is not harmful and contains some of 
the flavor and mineral matter. Concentrate nnci ii; (> in butter 
sauce or use in preparation of white sauce or cream soups. 



44 USE AND PEEPARATIOjST OF FOOD. 

(2) Heat of sterilization has made the vegetable tender. No 
further cooking is necessary, but to insure safety it should be 
boiled 5 minutes before serving. 
5. Dried vegetables : 

A. Availability. — New methods of dehydration are making it pos- 
sible to preserve the more succulent vegetables in this way. They are 
becoming increasingly available. They contain all the food value 
of the fresh vegetable in a more concentrated form. On account of 
their concentrated form these are especially valuable where food must 
be transported long distances. 

B. Preparation: 

(1) Soak to regain water. 

(2) Prepare as fresh vegetables. 

METHOD OF DEVELOPING -LABORATORY WORK. 

A weak-flavored vegetable, such as celery or asparagus, should 
be cooked by the two methods, covered and uncovered, and com- 
pared for flavor. A strongly flavored vegetable, such as onions or 
cabbage, should be cooked and compared in the same way. The 
three principal points to be stressed are conservation of food value 
and of flavor and proper time of cooking. 

Have on hand some of the canned vegetables which the women 
should be encouraged to use. These can be furnished by the Avomen 
of the class and carried home for use. Have these weighed and meas- 
ured and calculate the price of the fresh vegetable below which the 
canned would be less economical. Have each of these prepared in 
some attractive way. If any dried vegetables are available, demon- 
strate their preparation. If suited to the group, a discussion of the 
vegetable garden might well be used here. (See Unit XII, Lesson 
6.) For length of time for cooking in the following recipes, see table 
on page 43. 

BAKED BEETS. 

Select youug, tender beets, wash well, put into a covered baking dish with a 
small amount of water and bake until tender. Serve with butter. Note how 
the method of cooking brings out the sweet flavor usually lost when cooked in a 
large amount of water. 

CEEAMED CABBAGE. 

Cut cabbage into small pieces and cook uncovered in salted boiling water until 
tender. Drain oft the water concentrate, if necessary, and use as the basis of 
wliite sauce. Place the cabbage in layers in a baking dish, alternating with 
sauce ; cover with buttered crumbs and brown in the oven. 

ASPARAGUS. 

Wasli asparagus. Tie in small bunches and stand on end in a deep pan, 
leaving the tips up. Add a small amount of water. Cover and cook until tlie 



USE AND PREPAKATION OF EOOD. 45 

stems are tender. The tips will be cooked by the steam, but will not be over- 
cooked, as is the case when cooked in water. Season with butter or substitute. 
Serve on toast with white sauce made from the liquid in which the asparagus 
was cooked, or serve with Maitre d' hotel butter. (For recipe, see Unit VI, 
Lesson 6.) 



Lesson 5. New and Practical Ways of Using Vegetables. 

AIM. 

To show how to pi'epare vegetables more palatably so that they 
will be used to a greater extent in place of the more staple foods. 

POINTS TO BE BROUGHT OUT. 

1. Many people include too few vegetables in their diet, principally 
because — 

A. They learn to depend upon a few well-known vegetables and 
aVe not acquainted with many varieties. 

B. Vegetables are often poorly cooked and unattractively served, 
so that they are not appetizing. 

C. Many families fail to can, dry, or store vegetables in the sea- 
son of their abundance, which limits their consumption during the 
winter months when fresh vegetables are out of season and high in 
price. 

2. A normal adult should have at least 1 to 1^ pounds of fruit or 
vegetables daily for the sake of health. ( See Lesson 1. ) 

A, Starch}' vegetables may sometimes be used to advantage in 
place of cereals. 

(1) In place of a part of the usual amount of bread eaten. 

(2) In place of pastry, in cooking (as j)otatoes in shepherd's 
pie). 

(3) Combined with flour in baking (potato bread, sweet po- 
tato muffins). 

B, Legumes, such as beans or peas, may be used in place of part 
of the meat. (See Unit III, Lesson 4.) 

C, Fresh vegetables are perishable and not easily transported. 
When abundant they can be used to advantage, from the stand- 
point of both health and economy. 

3. The housewife should encourage a more extensive use of vege- 
tables by — 

A. Serving a variety, including the more unusual kinds, and seeing 
that the family learns to like all kinds. 

B. Taking care in the preparation to make them appetizing and 
frequently varj'ing the method of serving. 



46 USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 

4. Canned and dried vegetables may be used to furnish variety. 
Canned vegetables frequently require careful seasoning; dried vege- 
tables should be soaked in water for several hours, then cooked as 
fresh vegetables. 

METHOD or DE^'ELOFING LABORATORY WORK. 

The teacher should ascertain what vegetables are in common use 
in the community and the usual method of preparing these. This 
lesson will oifer an opportunity to introduce new varieties and to 
try new methods of preparation. The general rules for cooking 
vegetables given in Lessons 2 and 3 should be used in cooking, and 
especial care should be taken to have the dishes appetizing. 

VEGETABLE SOUPS. 

2 turnips. 6 tomatoes (or 1 pint). 

2 potatoes. Rice, 2 tablespoons. 

1 onion. Chopped parsley, 2 tablespoons. 

6 stalks celery with tips. Butter or savory fat, 2 tablespoong. 

2 carrots. Salt. 

1 quart water. Pepper. 

Chop the vegetables or put them through the meat grinder. Combine all the 
Ingredients and cook until the rice is tender. 

Any comt)ination of fresh vegetables or left-over vegetables may be used. 

^'^^raiGETABLE CHOWDER. 

4 potatoes. Fat, 2 tablespoons, or a small piece 

3 carrots. of salt pork. 

3 onions. Flour, 3 tablespoons. 

1 pint tomatoes. Skim milk, 2 cups. 

Salt. 2 teaspoons. 

Cut the potatoes and carrots Into small pieces, add water to cover, and onok 
20 minutes. Brown the chopped onion in the fat, add the flour and the louia- 
toes, and when thickened, add to the vegetables. Heat the milk and combine 
with the vegetables just before serving. 

SPINACS LOAF. 

Chopped spinach, 1 can. Thick white sauce, 2 cups, 

Boiled rice, 4 cups, 1 red pepper, chopped. 

Mix, form into a loaf, and bake 20 minutes. 

VEGETABLE SOUFFLfi 

Thick white sauce, i cup. Chopped, cooked vegetable, or vege- 

3 eggs, table pulp (green or dried beans, 

peas, asparagus, green corn), 1 cup. 
Salt, pepper. 
Beat the egg yolks ; add white sauce, seasoning, and vegetables ; fold in the 
beaten egg whites; put into a buttered baking dish and bake in a moderate 
oven until firm. 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 47 

Lesson 6. The Vegetable Dinner. 

AIM. 

To plan a dinner, making the greatest possible use of vegetables. 

POINTS TO BE BROUGHT OUT. 

1. By judicious choice of vegetables and proper combinations with 
other foods it is possible to plan a well-balanced dinner composed 
almost entirely of vegetables. The old-fashioned " New England " 
boiled dinner is an example of a meal of this type. 

2. In selecting vegetables for a meal care should be taken to in- 
clude vegetables of different composition, and a starchy vegetable, 
one high in protein, and succulent vegetables should be represented. 

3. A greater variety of vegetables is usable than when the usual 
type of meal, including meat, is planned. 

4. Desirable additions to such a meal are fats or fat meat, which 
increase the fuel value and satisfying character of the meal; or 
cheese and milk, which furnish protein of a very desirable type. 

METHOD OF DEVELOPING LABORATORY WORK. 

Have typical meals prepared. Have women plan, prepare, and 
serve similar meals at home, reporting upon their cost and desira- 
bility. Suggested menus: 

1. 2. 

String beans with fat meat. Fresh young onions. 

Boiled or steamed potatoes. Turnip greens with hog jowL 

Steamed beets with butter. Corn bread and butter. 

Corn on cob. Butter beans. 

Fresh apple pie. Baked custard with fruit. 

Other desirable combinations will be suggested by the women. 

REFERENCES. 

United States Department of Agriculture: 

Farmers' Bulletin 293. Use of Fruit as Food. 

Farmers' Bulletin 871. Fresh Fruits and Vegetables as Conservers of 
Other Staple Foods. 

Farmers' Bulletin 256. Preparation of Vegetables for the Table. 

Department Bulletin 123. Extension Course in Vegetable Foods for Self- 
Instructed Classes in Movable Schools of Agriculture. 

States Relations Service, Bulletin 392. Lessons on Tomatoes for Rural 
Schools. 

States Relations Service, Bulletin 468. Potatoes, Sweet Potatoes, and 
Other Starchy Roots as Food. 

States Relations Service, Bulletin 503. Turnips, Beets, and Other Suc- 
culent Roots, and Their Use as Food. 



48 USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 

U. S. Department of Agriculture (in cooperation with Women's Committee, 
Council National Defense) : 

The Day's Food in Peace and War. 
U. S. Food Leaflet No. 16. Fresh Vegetables. 
U. S. Food Leaflet No. 9. Vegtables for Winter. 
U. S. Food Leaflet No. 10. Plenty of Potatoes. 
Note. — The United States food leaflets and bulletins Issued by the Food Ad- 
ministration are no longer published, but where a supply previously obtained 
is still available they will be valuable as references. 



UNIT III. 

Practical Ways of Using Peas, Beans, and Nuts. 

GENERAL INFORMATION. 

The dried legumes and nuts are considered in a separate unit be- 
cause their composition is such as to make their function in the diet 
and their method of preparation differ from the other vegetable 
foods. They are concentrated foods, rich in protein and in some 
cases fat, so are valuable in supplementing the more bulky forms of 
vegetable foods. The peanut is botanically a legume, though its 
characteristics are more like those of the nuts." 

liEssoN I. The Use and Preparation of Dried Peas and Beans. 

AIM. 

To teach the use and methods of preparation of dried peas and 
beans. 

POINTS TO be brought OUT. 

1. Food value: 

A. Rich in protein material. 

(1) Amount — 

1 pound lean meat furnishes 3 ounces protein, 
1 pound navy beans furnishes 3^ ounces protein. 
1 pound soy beans furnishes 5-6 ounces protein. 
1 pound cowpeas furnishes BJ ounces protein. 

(2) The protein in soy beans may well be used in place of 
that in meat. The pi-otein of the navy bean and dried pea is 
less efficient, and should not be used as the sole source of pro- 
tein food. 

B. Energy-yielding material: 

(1) Starch is abundant in navy, lima, and pinto beans, but it 
is low in soy beans. 

(2) Fat is especially rich in the soy bean. It is low in the 
other beans and peas. That accounts for the usual combination 

128209°— 19 i 49 



50 USE AND PREPAKATION 0¥ FOOD. 

of " pork and beans." At 15 cents a pound beans furnish nearly 
three thne as much energy (total calories) as 1 pound of round 
steak at 35 cents a pound or 1 pound of veal at 33 cents. 

C. Mineral 7natter is abundant in all legumes and should be con- 
served in cooking. Legumes are especially valuable as sources or 
iron. 

D. V it amines. — These foods are sources of one of the essentia] 
dietary substances known as "water soluble B." (See Unit XTI. 
Lesson 3.) This seems to be destroyed if they are cooked with tlie 
addition of soda. In a well-balanced dietary this loss need not be 
considered, but in a limited diet, soda should not be used. 

2. Methods of cooking: 

A. In order that these foods may be well digested they must be 
cooked imtil they are very soft. This may best be done by — 

(1) Soaking several hours (overnight, if for soy beans), to 
replace the water lost in drying. 

(2) Cooking slowly and for a long time. (A tireless cooker 
is desirable for this purpose.) ' 

(3) Using soft water in which to cook. The use of hard 
water tends to harden the beans or peas. 

(4) Soda may be used to soften the water if soft water is not 
available. To one quart of beans use one-fourth to one-third 
teaspoon soda. (See 1 D as to the desirability of using soda in 
cooking.) An equally efficient and probably less hai'mful method 
of preparation is to soak the beans overnight in the soda water. 
In the morning discard the soda water and cook in clear water. 
This decreases the length of time required, and consequently the 
amount of fuel necessary. 

(5) The digestibility is increased by removing skins. This 
may be done by rubbing the cooked beans or peas through a 
sieve and using the pulp. 

B. These foods are low in flavor, hence they are more appetizing 
when seasoned well or combined with highly-flavored foods. Pork 
fat, cheese, onion, green peppers, celery, or tomato combine well as 
seasonings. 

C. Broken peas or beans may be used a§ well as whole ones. They 
are cheaper and just as nutritious. 

METHOD OF DEVELOPING LABORATORY WORK. 

Have on hand samples of all the varieties of dried peas and beans 
available, also prices of each. Plan to have some of each cooked to 
tenderness, either in class or prepared by the women and brought 
to class. Have accurate account kept of (a) kind of water used; 



USE AND PREPAKATION OF FOOD. 51 

(6) amount of soda, if any; (c) method of cooking (over fire, fire- 
less cooker, pressure cooker) ; and (d) length of time required for 
tenderness.- 

These beans should then be prepared for serving in some of the 
ways given. In case the original cooking must be done during the 
class period, some may be prepared for serving during the soup les- 
son which follows this lesson. 

BOSTON BAKED BEANS. 

1 quart beans (navy beans or two- Salt, 1 teaspoon. 

thirds soy beans and one-third navy 1 small onion. 

beans). Salt pork, i pound, or vegetable oil, i 

Sorghum, i cup. cup. 
Mustard, i teaspoon. 

Soak beans overnight in cold water. Drain, cover with fresh water, and 
cook at a temperature just below the boiling point until skins will burst open 
when blown upon. Put the ingredients into a bean pot or casserole, cover with 
water, and bake slowly six to eight hours. Add water as needed. 

MOCK SAUSAGE. 

Dried lima beans, i cup. Fat, § tablespoon. 

Bread crumbs, 5 tablespoons. Salt, i teaspoon. 

1 egg. Pepper. 
Chopped parsley or sage, i teaspoon. 

Cook the beans and rub through a sieve. Add bread crumbs, egg, fat, and 
seasoning. Shape into sausages, roll in cornmeal or egg and crumbs, and 
brown in the oven or cook in hot fat. 

SOY BEAN SALAD. 

To one cup cooked soy beans, add one small onion, chopped, two small sour 
pickles, paprika, and one-fourth cup chopped celery or cabbage. Serve with a 
boiled dressing. 

SPLIT PEA LOAF. 

Cooked peas, 2 cups. Paprika, f teaspoon. 

Pimento, i cup ; cut into small pieces. Bread crumbs, If cups. 
Salt, 1 teaspoon. Canned tomatoes, i cup. 

Press the peas through a colander, mix with the other ingredients, mold into 
a loaf, and bake 30 minutes. 

BAKED SOY BEANS. 

Yellow soy beans, 1^ cups. Mustard, i teaspoon. 

White beans, ^ cup. Salt pork, i pound. 

Sugar, i cup. 1 small onion. 

Soak beans 12 hours; put Into baking dish in which the salt pork, onion, 
sugar, and mustard have been placed. Cover with cold water, and cook in 
a slow oven at least 12 hours. Add water as needed. 



52 USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 



BOILED COWPEAS WITH BACON. 



The desired quantity of peas to be cooked sliould be wastied in cold water. 
Put in iron pot or stewpan, cover with cold water, drop in a piece* of fat bacon, 
boil slowly until tender, season with pepper and salt, simmer slowly until 
ready to serve. A small piece of butter will add greatly to their flavor. 



BAKED COWPEAS. 



Prepare as for boiling ; when half done pour into the baking pan ; season with 
butter, pepper, and to every pint of peas add 1 scant teaspoonful of salt and a 
pinch of sugar; scar. a piece of bacon and half bury it in the middle of the 
dish ; cook slowly until done to a delicate brown ; serve either hot or cold. 



Lesson 2. Some Good Soups from Peas and Beans. 

AIM. 

To teach methods of preparation of cheap and nutritious soups. 

POINTS TO BE BROUGHT OUT. 

1. Food vahie. — The legumes form the basis of nutritious and pala- 
table soups which are similar in their method of preparation to 
cream soups. In them the fat which is lacking may be added, and 
if milk is used in their preparation the incomplete legume protein 
is supplemented. The lacking carbohydrate is supplied by the 
bread eaten with the soup. (See Unit III, Lesson 1.) 

2. Use in the diet: 

A. As a main dish at luncheon — Prepare with milk and make 
thick. 

B. As first course in a meal low in protein they supplement the 
protein especially if made with milk. 

C. Avoid as first course in a meal which is protein rich. 

3. Method of preparation : 

A. Rub the M^ell-cooked legumes through the strainer so as to re- 
move the skins. This makes a smoother soup and increases the 
digestibility. Use one-fourth cup pulp to one cup water in which 
beans were cooked (provided no soda was used), one cup of skim 
milk, or a mixture of the two. 

B. For each cup of liquid use one tablespoon of butter. Melt the 
butter and add small portion of onion. Cook until brown. Add to 
the melted butter one teaspoonful of flour for each cup of liquid. 
This is necessary in order to bind the soup and prevent the bean 
pulp from settling out. Add butter and flour mixture to the liquid 
and pulp. Let come to a boil. This may be made thicker or thinner 
as desired by increasing or decreasing the am; uit of liquid used. 



USE AND PEEPARATION OF TOOD. 53 

In case of soy beans the amount of flour should be increased, since 
the soy bean contains so small a portion of starch. 

METHOD OF DEVELOPING LABORATORY WORK. 

Have soups prepared from the various legumes used in the previous 
lesson. Calculate the cost. Emphasize as a method of utilizing 
skim milk. 

BOY BEAN SOXJP I. 

Soy beans, 1 pint. Salt, 1 teaspoon. 

Cold water, 2 quarts. Mustard, i teaspoon. 

1 suiall onion. Butter, 2 tablespoons. 

2 small stalks celery. Flour, 2 tablespoons. 

1 lemon. Pepper, I teaspoon. 

2 hard-boiled eggs. 

Soak beans overnight; In the morning, drain, add celery and cold water; 
cook four hours or until tender. Cut onion in thin slices and brown slightly in 
the butter ; add flour, seasoning, and beans, water and pulp. Reheat to boiling 
point, strain, and pour over the egg and lemon, which have been cut into slices. 

SOY BEAN SOUP II. 

Soy beans, 1 cup. Milk, 1 quart. 

Butter, 2 tablespoons. Salt, 1 teaspoon. 

Flour, 2 tablespoons. Pepper, i teaspoon. 

Soak beans 12 hours ; drain and cook in water four hours or until tender ; 
then rub through sieve. Brown the chopped onion in the butter ; add flour, 
milk, and bean pulp ; boil one minute, stirring constantly ; season and serve. 

6EEEN-PEA SOUP. 

Green peas, 2 quarts. Butter, melted, 2 tablespoons. 

Water, 4 quarts. Flour, 1 teaspoon. 

1 onion, chopped fine. Salt. 

1 sprig mint. Pepper. 
1 sprig parsley. 

Boil the peas in water for two hours, renewing liquid by adding boiling water 
as needed. Strain, return the liquor to the pot. Rub the peas though a sie\e ; 
mix the pulp with the onion, mint, and parsley. Add to the liquor in the pot 
juul lot boil 15 minutes. Stir the flour into the butter, mix well, and stir in.^o 
tiie boiling soup ; add salt and pepper to taste ; serve with well-buttered strips 
or toasted bread. 

PEA SOUP I. 

Hulled peas, 1 quart. White sauce. 

Water, 4 quarts. Salt and pepper. 

Boil the peas in the water until perfectly soft. Mash the peas; add the 
white sauce and seasonings, stirring and boiling as for green-pea soup. 



54 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 



PEA SOUP II. 



Peas, 1 quart. 
Water, 4 quarts. 
Bacon, 2 ounces. 



6 onions. 

Salt. 

Pepper. 



Put the bacon and onions, chopped fine, into a saucepan ; salt and pepper to 
taste; add the water; boil 20 minutes. Meantime rub through a sieve a quai't 
of peas that have been previously boiled ; add them to the first ingredients ; 
boil one hour longer and serve hot. 



Lesson 3. Nuts and Their Uses. 



AIM. 

To emphasize the food vahie of nuts and their place in the diet. 
To teach methods of preparation of nuts. 

POINTS TO be brought OUT. 

1. Food vahie. — Nuts are very concentrated foods, being especially 
rich in protein and fat^ so are valuable both as sources of energy and 
building material. On account of their concentrated form they are 
especially valuable to supplement the less concentrated foods like 
fruits and vegetables. All nuts except chestnuts are low in carho' 
hydrates. 

Co)n2)osition of ediNe portions of some of the more important nuts. 

[Adapted from "Food Products," by Sherman.] 



Description. 


Water. 


Protein. 


Fat. 


Carbo- 
hydrate. 


Ash. 


Calories 
per pound. 


Almond 


Per cent. 
4.8 
5.9 
14.1 
3.7 
9.2 
2.7 
2.5 


Ptr cent. 
21 
10.7 

5.7 
15.4 
25.8 

9.6 
16.6 


Per cent. 
54.9 
7 

50.6 
67.4 
38.6 
70.5 
63.4 


Per cent. 
17.3 
74.2 
27.9 
11.4 
24.4 
15.3 
16.1 


Percent. 
2.0 
2.2 
1.7 
2.1 
2.0 
1.9 
1.4 


2,940 




1,828 




2,675 




3,238 




2,490 




3,330 


Vi^alnut 


3,182 







2. Digestibility. — Contrary to the usual idea, nuts are easily and 
fairly completely digested if well masticated and eaten at the proper 
time, as a constituent portion of the meal and not after or between 
complete meals, when they are added to an already adequate diet. 

3. Methods of cooking. — Most nuts are edible raw ; the chestnut is 
the only one which contains enough starch to make cooking im- 
portant from the standpoint of digestibility. The almond and pea- 
nut are more palatable after heating, due to changes in flavor and 
changes in the carbohydrates. Combination nut dishes are cooked 
on account of any other constituents which may need cooking, to 
develop flavor and because of the psychological value of the hot dish. 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 



55 



4. The place and use in the diet. — Nuts should be used as an inte- 
gral part of the meal, not as a condiment or food adjunct. Their con- 
centrated character makes them especially liable to misuse. They 
should be used with more bulky foods. 

A. On account of their high protein value nuts are frequently 
used as the main dish of the meal. In imitation of meat dishes they 
are made into loaves, croquettes, cutlets, etc. 

B. When the salad is the principal dish its food value may be in- 
creased by the use of nuts. 

• C. Nuts are added to confections and cakes as a source of fat and 
flavor. From this point of view it is interesting to note the amount 
of fat some of the more usual forms of nuts contain and the meas- 
ure of butter to which their fat content is equivalent.* 



Description. 



Weight 
(Icup). 



Fat. 



Weight fat 

in 1 cup 

nuts. 



Measure of 
butter to 

which 
equivalent. 



Pecan 

Peanuts 

Hickory 

Almond 

Coconut (shredded) 



Grams. 
122 

180 
120 
154 
106 



Per cent. 
71 
38 
67 
55 
50 



Grams. 



Cup. 



0.4 
.3 
.4 
.35 
.3 



5. Comparative economy. — All the nuts are concentrated sources of 
energy, and the peanut and almond are high in protein. They 
vary greatly in price according to locality and time of year. Pea- 
nuts are the cheapest and are usually very economical sources of 
both energy and protein. In some localities black walnuts, hickory 
nuts, and chestnuts may be had for the gathering. Pecans are be- 
coming more abundant. In this lesson the use of locally available 
nuts should be emphasized. 

METHOD OF DEVELOPING LABORATORY WORK. 

Have typical nut dishes prepared. Compare cost per service with 
similar dishes prepared from the legumes and from meat. Have 
nut dishes used at home and reported upon. In the following recipes 
nuts other than those given may be substituted. Suggest other 
recipes which are particularly adapted to local conditions. 



PEANUT LOAF. 



Ground peanuts, 1 cup. 
r>reacl crumbs, 1 cup. 
r.olled rice, 2 cups. 
Tomatoes, i cup. 



1 egg. 

Chopped onion, 2 lablespoons. 

Salt. 

Pepper. 



Mix, mold into a loaf, and bake 30 minutes. 



» Unpublished material. Department of Home Economics, University of Missouri. 



56 USE AND PEEPARATION OF FOOD. 

MOCK VEAL CUTLETS. 

Lentils, 1 cup. Grated celery, 1 tablespoon. 

Butter, i cup. Minced onion, 1 tablespoon. 

Graham-bread crumbs, fine, 1 cup. Mixed berbs, J teaspoon. 

Strained tomatoes, 1 cup. Salt, i teaspoon. 

Peanuts, blanched and chopped, 1 cup. Pepper. 

Wash the lentils and soak overnight ; in the morning strain and parboil for 
30 minutes in fresh boiling water. Drain and cook until soft in sufficient 
boiling water to cover them. Rub through a sieve and to the mixture add the 
butter, bread crumbs, tomatoes, to wliich a speck of soda has been added, and 
all the other ingredients. Blend all thoroughly and form into cutlets. Dip 
these in egg and then in fine bread crumbs ; place in a well-greased baking pan 
and brown in quick oven. Arrange around a mound of mashed potato and 
serve with brown sauce. 

BEOWN SAUCE. 

Peanut butter, 1 teaspoon. Cream, 1 tablespoon. 

Browned flour, 2 tablespoons. Milk, 2 cups. 

Tomatoes, 4 tablespoons. Salt and pepper. 

Mix the peanut butter and flour with the cream ; heat the milk and add it 
gradually ; stir and cook until the mixture tliickens. Just before serving add 
the tomatoes, salt, and pepper. 



Lesson 4. The Meatless Meal. 

AIM. 

To bring out the point that meat is not an essential of the meal 
and show how meals may be built around legumes and nuts as the 
principal source of protein. 

POINTS TO BE BROUGHT OUT. 

1. These dishes are concentrated and high in protein and should 
bo combined with more bulky foods rich in carbohydrates. 

2. These dishes are especially valuable sources of protein when 
milk is used in their preparation to supplement the incomplete 
proteins. 

METHOD or DEVELOPING LABORATORY WORK. 

This lesson should serve as a review of the preceding lessons of 
the unit. Have the women plan and serve a meal built around the 
dishes prepared. Have variety in the type of meals prepared, 



USE AND PREPAKATION OF FOOD. 57 

varying from a simple home luncheon to a company vegetarian 
dinner. The teacher should see that these menus are sufficiently 
high in calories and should be ready to offer suggestions as to de- 
sirable combinations. 

SUGGESTED MENUS. 
I. III. 

Baked beans. 

Brown bread. Soy-bean soup. 

Pickles. Salad. 

Baked apple. Desert. 

II. IV. 

Nut loaf or croquettes. Boiled beans with pork. 

Potatoes. Green vegetables. 

Green vegetables. Corn bread and butter. 

Salad. Dessert 
Dessert. 

UEFERENCES. 

United States Department of Agriculture : 

Farmers' Bulletin 559. Use of Corn, Kaffir, and Cowpeas in the Home. 
Farmers' Bulletin 973. The Soy Bean: Its Culture and Uses. 
Farmers' Bulletin 121. Beans, Peas, and Other Legumes as Food. 
Separate 746, Yearbook, 1917. The Peanut, a Great American Food. 



UNIT IV. 
Milk, Cheese, and Eggs. 
GENERAL INFORMATION. 

1. Milk is one of the essential foods because it is the best building 
food for children. No other food can take its place for this purpose. 
Its perishable nature and the difficulties attending its production, 
transportation, and marketing make it a product peculiarly sensitive 
to disturbed conditions, so that both the quantity and the price are 
liable to be seriously affected. 

2. Dairy situation in Europe : 

A. There has been a marked decrease in the dairy herds and a 
further decrease in the milk production. The decrease in the number 
of dairy animals is due to — 

(1) Seizure of many animals by the enemy during the period 
of invasion. 

(2) Slaughter of animals for food, to help in the serious meat 
shortage. 

B. The remaining dairy animals have been producing but 50 per 
cent of the normal amount of milk, due to — 

(1) Inability to import feed grains. 

(2) Diversion of grain within the countries for human food. 

(3) Inefficient and untrained labor. 

3. Increase in price : 

A. Even before the war there was an upward trend in the selling 
price of milk in the United States. Tlie factors causing this in- 
crease, which have become even more important since 1914, are — 

(1) Increased wages for labor. 

(2) Increased cost of feed. 

(3) Increased cost of dairy equipment. 

(4) Increased cost of transportation. 

B. Fair price necessary to insure production. — To pay the price 
that assures a reasonable profit to the producer and thus maintain 
production is self-protection on the part of the consumer. If the 
price of milk is lowered below the level of fair returns, the farmers 
would reduce their herds, and the resulting milk shortage would 
greatly increase the selling price. It is unfortunate that an increase 
in price curtails the use, especially among the poor, where without 
it the children are more liable to have an insufficient diet. 

58 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 



59 



4. The United States must maintain its dairy herds : 

A. To supply our own needs and maintain the health, particu- 
larly of the children, of the country. 

B. To furnish exports of dairy products in the form of butter, 
cheese, and condensed or dried milk sufficient to meet the needs, as 
far as possible, of the European countries. This calls for greatly 
increased shipments during the reconstruction period as isolated 
countries are opened up and larger facilities become available. 

C. To help in the restocking of the depleted herds of Europe. 

5. Wise use of dairy products means : 

A. Using enough milk for health, for adults, and giving children 
plenty of whole milk to insure normal growth and health, but letting 
none be wasted. 

B. Using butter on the table, but substituting other fats in 
cooking. 

C. Using cheese more abundantly. 



Lesson 1. Melk and its Value in the Diet. 

AIM. 

To teach the composition and the food value of milk and the effect 
on milk of acids and of the enzyme, rennin. 

points to be brought out. 

1. Composition and food value of milk : 



Constituent. 



Limits of 
variation. 



Conven- 
ienl ap- 
proxima- 
tion of 
averaijt. 



Fat 

Protpin 

Milk sugar 

Mineral matter. 
Water 



Per cent. 

3. 0- 6. 

3. 0- 4. 

4.6- 5.0 

.7- .78 

84. 0-87. 



Per cent. 
4.0 
3..i 
5.0 
.7 
87.0 



The composition varies with the breed of the cow, the period of 
lactation, the season of the year, and the completeness of milking. 
The cow must have a sufficient amount of food, but the food in itself 
has little influence on the composition of the milk. The fat is the 
most variable constituent. Jersey cows usually give milk containing 
5 per cent or more fat, while the milk from Holsteins may not have 
more than 3.5 per cent. 



60 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 



Special points about the composition of milk: 

A. Milk should be considered as a real food, not simply as a bev- 
erage. Although milk contains about 87 per cent water ^ it contains 
more solid matter than most vegetables. 

B. The protein of milk is chiefly casein and lactalbumin, two of 
the very best kinds for promoting growth. It is one of the protein 
foods containing none of the substances which yield uric acid in 
the body, nor is it readily susceptible to intestinal putrefaction. 

C. The fat is in an emulsified form and is easily digested. It 
contains a substance essential for growth and the maintenance of 
health which has been called " fat soluble A." 

D. The sugar in milk is lactose, less sweet than cane or beet sugar. 

E. Milk furnishes both calcium and phosphorus necessary for body 
construction. It is one of the best sources of calcium^ a given quan- 
tity containing more than an equal quantity of lime water. The 
phosphorus is abundant and in a readily available fonn. Milk is 
low in ii'on, but what is present is in an available form. This may 
be supplied from eggs, fruit, or green vegetables. 

F. Milk is called a " protective food." It contains, in addition to 
other important food principles, the two unidentified " dietary 
essentials " which are necessary for growth and the maintenance of 
health. 

G. Milk is lacking in laxative properties. The diet should be sup- 
plemented by laxative foods, such as fruits, vegetables, and whole 
cereals. 

2. Importance and value. — Because it contains all the nutrients in 
an easily assimilable form it is one of the most valuable foods. For 
children nothing else can take its place. Small children should have 
a quart a day, is possible, or a pint without fail. Skim milk is valu- 
able because it contains all the protein and mineral matter, but it 
can not entirely take the place of whole milk because of the absence 
of the fat and the necessary fat soluble food accessor3\ 

?>. Comparison with other protein foods. — Milk is. one of the cheap- 
est sources of animal protein. 

Amount and cost of typical foods containing 1 ounce of protein. 



Kind. 


Amount. 


Cost. 


Calories. 




1 quart, at .S0.05 


SO. 05 
.10 
.05 
.15 
.25 
.11 


332 




4 ounces, at 40 cents per pound ..,.. 


400 






166 


Whole milk: 


1 quart, at 15 cents 


620 




6, at 50 cents per dozen 

6 ounces, at 30 cents per pound ....... 


300 


Bfi'f — -rcund, medium fat 


250 









4. Care of milk: 

A. Milk is a food which is easily contaminated and which may be 
the medium by which germs of typhoid and soi:^e other diseases aro 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 61 

carried. Unless it is known that milk comes from healthy cows kept 
under sanitary conditions, and that it has been handled in a sanitary 
way, it is safer to boil or pasteurize it. 

(1) Certified milk means that the milk is certified as to its 
quality and wholesomeness by a properly constituted medical 
milk commission. 

(2) Pasteurized milk has been heated to a temperature of 60° 
to 63° C. (140° to 145° F.) and held at this temperature 20 to 
30 minutes. Milk should be pasteurized in the bottle or container 
to avoid any contamination in transferring. 

(3) Sterilized milk is milk which has been brought to the boil- 
ing point. The temperature brings about slight changes in the 
milk which do not take place in pasteurization. Both steriliza- 
tion and pasteurization will destroy disease germs and also the 
organisms which cause souring, thus making it possible for milk 
to be kept sweet for a longer time than under ordinary circum- 
stances. 

6. Ways to use milk as a food : 

A. Whole milk — 

(1) As a liquid food, either as fresh milk, buttermilk, or 
other fermented milks. 

(2) In cookery. 

(3) In cheese. 

(4) In frozen dishes. 

B. Skim milk — 

(1) In cookery may be substituted for whole milk. 

(2) In cheese (especially cottage cheese). 

(3) As a beverage in the form of fermented milk. 

C. Fat of milk— 

(1) As cream. 

(2) As butter. 

6. Commercial forms of milk: 

A. Evaporated or condensed milk is prepared by the removal of 
water with or without the addition of sugar. The following kinds 
are on the market : 

(1) Unsweetened whole milk, condensed, ordinarily called 
evaporated milk. 

(2) Sweetened whole milk condensed. 

(3) Sweetened skim milk condensed. 

B. Dried milk or milk powder. — Most of the water is removed 
and the solids reduced to a powder. 

7. Effect of the enzyme, remiin, upon milk. — In the process of 
digestion when milk comes in contact with the enzyme, rennin, 
which is found in the stomach, the casein of the milk coagulates or 
clots. Most of the fat is entangled with the clotting casein. The 



62 USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 

whey contains the sugar, the lactalbumin, and a part of the mineral 
matter. The same result is obtained in making rennet custard with 
rennet or junket tablets. The points to be considered in making 
rennet custard or junket are: 

A. Since the action of the junket tablet is due to the presence of 
an enzyme, the clotting takes place best if the mixture is at body 
temperature. 

B. If the milk has been boiled, some of the lime salts are precipi- 
tated, and the milk will not clot, unless a calcium salt is added, since 
the presence of soluble lime salts is necessary for this. If boiling is 
necessary, as in adding chocolate, a small amount of milk may bo 
heated with the chocolate and the remainder added, uncooked. 

C. If the mixture is shaken or stirred after it begins to clot, there 
is a separation of the clot, which is undesirable. For this reason, 
any flavoring or sugar should be added to the milk before the junket 
tablet. 

8. The effect of acid upon milk : 

A. When a small amount of acid is added to milk it causes the 
casein to precipitate, or, as usually stated, the milk curdles. This 
frequently happens in cooking, one of the best examples being in tlie 
making of cream of tomato soup. This may be prevented by — 

(1) Neutralizing the acid of the milk with soda. While this 
method is effective it spoils the good flavor of the soup, and 
since the acid of the tomato varies it is difficult to know how 
much soda to use. 

(2) If the milk is slightly thickened and the tomato juice 
added to the thickened mixture with both at a little above 
serving temperature there is either no curdling or the curd 
formed will be held in suspension. Do not heat again after com- 
bining. 

9. Method of preventing scum on heated milk: 

A. A scum forms on milk or milk mixtures when they are heated, 
probably due to the drying out of the proteins on the surface of the 
heated milk. This can be in part prevented by any one of the fol- 
lowing methods : 

(1) Cooking and cooling in a covered vessel. 

(2) Stirring to keep the mixture agitated. 

(3) Beating with a Dover beater to form a protective foam 
over the top. 

METHOD OF DEVELOPING LABORATORY WORK. 

In connection with this lesson a visit to a dairy might be ar- 
ranged, to see something of the care and handling of milk. It 
might also be advisable to have the class investigate the sources 
of the local milk supply, to ascertain grade and the cleanliness of 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 



63 



the milk furnished. Study the State and city laws in regard to 
dairy and milk inspection and see whether or not they are enforced. 



Junket, 1 tablet. 

Cold water, 1 tablespoon. 



Milk, 3 cups. 
Sugar, i cup. 
Vanilla, 1 teaspoon. 

Heat milk and sugar (or sirup) to body temperature, 37.5° O. (98.6" F.), 
add the vanilla and the junket tablet, which has been crushed and dissolved 
in the cold water. Pour immediately into serving dishes and let stand in a 
warm room until firm ; then chill. Season with nutmeg grated over the top 
and serve with berries, chopped nuts, or jelly. 



CBEAM OF TOMATO SOUP. 

Milk, 2 cups. Fat, 2 tablespoons. 

Tomato juice, 1 cup. Onion juice, i teaspoon. 

Flour, 3 tablespoons. Salt and pepper. 

Melt fat, stir in the flour, and add milk and onion juice, and cook 10 to 15 
minutes. Remove from the fire and add the tomato juice, which has been 
heated. Both should be just above serving temperature when combined, and 
the soup should be served immediately. 

Note to teacher. — In case the women are not taking the starch unit, insert 
here the lesson on white sauces, starch pudding, and cream soups. 



Lesson 2. The Cooking or Eggs. 



AIM. 



To show composition of eggs and method of preparation. 



POINTS TO BE BROUGHT OUT. 



1. Composition and food value: 

A. Eggs are a valuable food, containing a high proportion of nutri- 
ents in a form well suited to use in the body. 

Average composition of eggs {Langivorthy.) 



rescript ion. 


Water. 


Protein. 


Fat. 


Asli. 


Calorics per 
poimd 


>vh 111 egi, edible pcrtion 

Wliiic ......... 


Per cent. 

73.7 

• 86.2 

49.5 


Per cent. 
13.4 
12.3 
15.7 


Per cent. 

10.5 

.2 

33.3 


Per cent. 
1.0 
.6 
1.1 


672 
231 


Vol!' 









B. The protein is somewhat higher in the yolk than in the white. 
In form it is very similar to protein in milk. 



64 



USE AND PREPAKATION OF FOOD. 



C. The fat is nearly all found in the yolk, of which it forms a 
third. It is emulsified and in an easily digestible form. 

D. Mineral matter is high, especially in the yolk, which contains 
relatively large amounts of calcium, phosphorus, and iron, all in 
forms which are readily available. 

E. Egg has been classed with milk as a protective food, and the 
ogg yolk ranks next to milk as a source of the " fat soluble A." 

2. Comparative food value of milk and eggs : 

A. Eggs are similar to milk in the high proportion of nutrients 
(hey contain and in their ready digestibility. 

B. Eggs differ from milk in that they contain no carbohj^drates, 
but their high percentage of fat supplies energy. 

C. Eggs are valuable in supplementing the low iron content of 
milk. One Qgg contains nearly 30 times as much iron as one cup of 
milk. 

D. When digested in the body, milk leaves an alkaline residue, 
while eggs leave an acid residue which must be neutralized by the 
body. 

3. Comparative food value of eggs and meat: 
A. Composition of eggs compared with meat — 

r Adapted from United States Department of Agriculture, Office of Experiment Stations, 

Bulletin 28.] 



Food (edible portion). 


Water. 


Protein. 


Fat. 


Ash. 


Calories per 
poimd. 




Per cent. 
73.7 
70.0 


Per cent. 
13.4 
21.3 


Per cent. 
10.5 
7.9 


Per cent. 
1.0 
1.1 


720 




730 







B. Eggs supply the same nutrients as meat in a very similar pro- 
portion. Both are tissue-building and tissue repairing foods, and 
both contain mineral matter. 

C. Eggs have so little waste that at 50 cents a dozen they are a 
cheaper source of building material than the more expensive cuts of 
meat or the cuts with a large amount of waste. Neither meat nor 
eggs is an economical source of energy. 

4. Digestibility of eggs. — Eggs are very easily and completely 
digested. Their digestibility varies somewhat according to the 
method of preparation. 

A. Eaw egg whites, contrary to the usually accepted opinion, are 
less completely digested than those slightly" cooked. 

B. Eggs cooked in different ways all seem to be completely di- 
gested, but vary in their ease of digestion with the following factors : 

(1) Temperature at which cooked. — Eg^s cooked just below 
boiling point seem more easily digested than those cooked at 
boiling point, and fried egg is much more difficult to digest than 
boiled egg. 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 65 

(2) Ease of division. — When guniiny or tough they elude 
the teeth and are not well masticated. 

(3) Flavor. — When palatably and attractively prepared the 
secretion of the digestive juices is hastened. 

These points should be borne in mind in preparing eggs, especially 
in cases where there is any tendency to weak digestion. 

5. Cooking eggs: 

A. If cooked below boiling temperature we get a softer and more 
palatable product. (Show how this is done in the experiments 
below.) 

B. In an omelette a spongy texture is obtained by folding in the 
Avell-beaten egg white. These should be cooked slowly and evenly 
so as to set the air cells and retain the spongy texture. A 'slight 
browning of the outside develops flavor. 

C. In frying eggs flavor is developed at the expense of texture. 

D. The ease of digestion of hard-cooked eggs is increased by 
mincing. 

6. Handling of eggs. — Eggs are fragile and deteriorate very rap- 
idly so must be handled with care. It is estimated that 8 per cent, 
representing a cost of $50,000,000, is lost annually in marketing. 
A campaign was instituted last year to cut down this loss. In the 
household eggs should be kept in a cool, dry place. Do not wash 
until just before using, since they deteriorate more rapidly after 
being washed. 

7. Preservation of eggs and forms in which available. — Since the 
supply of eggs is not constant the year around, there are wide fluctua- 
tions in the price of fresh eggs according to the season. The develop- 
ment of methods of storage and preservation have given us a means 
of keeping eggs over from the time of plenty to that of scarcity and 
have helped to make the price more constant throughout the year. 

A. Fresh eggs always bring the highest price. They may be selected 
by the appearance of the shell and by candling. When these are more 
expensive they should not be used in places where other forms wdll 
serve. 

B. Cold-storage eggs are perfectly wholesome and are cheaper in 
winter than fresh eggs. 

C. Eggs may be preserved by the housewife in water glass. (See 
Unit IX, Lesson 9.) These are always good for cooking. 

D. Dried eggs are on the market and are extensively used by 
bakers. lATiere their preparation is under Government control and . 
they are placed on the market in suitable containers, they might well 
be used more extensivelj^, especially in custards and in baking. 

E. So-called egg poAvders are likely to be frauds. Many of them 
are principally starch and coloring matter. 

128209°— 19 5 



66 USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 

METHOD OF DEVELOPING LABORATOEY WORK. 

If this lesson is given in the spring, when eggs are plentiful, fresh 
eggs should be used. If given in the winter, cold-storage eggs or those 
preserved in water glass may be used. If desired, a demonstration 
on preserving eggs in water glass may be given in connection with 
the lesson. (See Unit IX, Lesson 9.) 

Two ideas should be kept in mind for laboratory work: (1) The 
proper method of cooking eggs in the simpler ways, and (2) unusual 
and attractive egg dishes which may be served as the main dish of the 
meal. 

EGGS COOKED IN THE SHELL. 

One pint of water to 1 egg and an extra cupful for each additional egg. 

Have ready a saucepan containing boiling water. Put eggs in saucepan, re- 
move to cooler part of stove and let stand from three to five minutes, if liked 
soft cooked; 8 to 10 minutes for medium hard; 20 to 30 minutes for very hard 
cooked. Temperature of water should not exceed 82° C. (180° F.). 

BAKED EGGS. 

Break eggs into a buttered platter or shallow baking dish. Sprinkle cracker 
crumbs and grated cheese over the top; then moisten with a few tablespoons of 
cream. Bake in a modei'ate oven until the egg white is done but tender. 

rOAMT OMELETTE. 

4 eggs. Salt, 1 teaspoon. 

Butter, 1 tablespoon. Pepper, i teaspoon. 

Water, 4 tablespoons. 

Separate yolks from whites. Beat whites until stilf. Beat yolks in a bowl 
with a Dover beater until thick ; add salt, pepper, and water. Cut and fold 
the yolks into whites until the mixture is blended. Melt butter in omelette pan 
and when moderately hot, turn in mixture ; spread evenly a little thinner iu 
center where fold will come; place on range where it will cook slowly (about 
12 minutes). Keep the temperature low until the last minute, when it may be 
raised to brown the bottom. When "well puffed," put pan in a moderate oven 
to cook the top; that is, until omelette is firm to the touch. Crease across top 
and fold. Serve at once. This may be served with tomato sauce, white sauce, 
onion, minced ham or other meat, and garnished with parsley or with jelly. 

CREOLE OMELETTE. 

Tomatoes, 2 (thinly sliced). Sugar, l teaspoon. 

.Onions, 2 (finely chopped). Pepper, i teaspoon. 

Butter, 3 tablespoons. Salt, i teaspoon. 

Melt the butter; add the other ingredients. Cook 20 minutes. Spread half 
the mixture over half of a foamy omelette. Food, place on platter, and garnish 
with the remainder of the tomato and onion mixture. 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 67 

SHIERED EGGS WITH RICE. 

Line a shallow buttered dish with hot boiled rice. Break 6 eggs and care- 
fully drop them one by one into the rice. Cover with 1 cup or more of white 
sauce to which ^ cup of grated cheese and ^ cup of bread crumbs have been 
added. Set baking dish in pan of hot water and cook in slow oven until the 
whites of the eggs are jellylike. 

CREAMED EGGS. 

Prepare white sauce and add hard-cooked eggs, cut in halves, slices, or 
chopped, and when hot serve on toast. A little cheese may be added for sea- 
soning if desired. • 

EGGS A LA GOLDEN ROD. 

Separate whites and yolks of hard-cooked eggs, chop whites fine, add to 
white sauce, and when hot serve on toast and garnish with yolks run through 
a sieve or ricer. Season with salt and pepper. The eggs may be mixed with 
the white sauce poured into a baking dish, covered with buttered crumbs, and 
baked until crumbs are a delicate brown, 

EGGS A LA KING. 

4 hard-cooked eggs. Egg yolks, 2. 

Cream or milk, 2 cups. Canned pimentos cut in stripes, ^ can. 

Flour, 4 tablespoons. Sauteed sliced mushrooms, i cup. 

Butter, 2 tablespoons. Salt, 1 teaspoon. 

Cut eggs in quarters and arrange on slices of toast. Melt butter, add dry 
ingredients, blend, and cook thoroughly. Add cream gradually. Cook until 
slightly thickened. Add remaining ingredients and pour over eggs. 

CHEESE SOUFFLE. 

Butter, 2 tablespoons. Few grains cayenne pepper. 

Flour, 4 tablespoons. Cheese grated, i cup. 

Milk, 1 cup, scalded. Yolks 3 6ggs. 

Salt, i teaspoon. Whites 3 eggs. 

Melt butter, add flour, and when well mixed gradually add scalded milk. 
Then add salt, cayenne, and cheese. Remove from fire ; add yolks of eggs 
beaten until lemon colored. Cool mixture, and cut and fold in whites of eggs 
beaten until stiff and dry. Pour into a buttered baking dish and bake 20 
minutes in a slow oven. 



Lesson 3. Custards and Custard Puddings. 

AIM. 

To show the use of egg as a means of thickening liquids by the 
preparation of custards and custard puddings. 

POINTS TO BE BROUGHT OUT. 

1. Use of eggs in thickening: 

A. When egg is mixed with liquid and heated the coagulation of 
the protein thickens the liquid. This coagulum is soft and remains 
suspended throughout the liquid unless the mixture is overcooked. 



68 USE AND PEEPARATION OF FOOD, 

B. Part of egg used — 

(1) Whole egg. 

(2) Yolk gives softer coagulum on account of presence of fat. 

(3) The white has approximately the same thickening power 
as the yolk but must be handled more carefully. 

C. Proportions depend upon the thickness desired. 

(1) Soft custards, 3 to 4 eggs to quart of milk. 

(2) Baked custards, 4 to 6 eggs to quart of milk. The larger 
proportion of egg is desirable if the custard is to be turned from 
a mold. • 

2. Method of combining: ' 

A. Heat milk in double boiler. 

B. Add sugar to egg. 

1. Pour hot milk into egg mixture. 

D. The finishing depends upon the kind of custard. 

(1) Soft custard. — Return to double boiler, stirring care- 
fully so as to cook evenly. It is done when spoon comes out 
coated. As soon as done remove from hot water. 

(2) Baked custard. — Pour into earthen baking dish and place 
in slow oven. Bake until knife inserted comes out clean. 

E. If a soft custard is overcooked the condition may be partially 
remedied by beating with a Dover egg beater. This breaks up the 
coagulated particles. The finer the particles are the more likely 
they are to remain in suspension. 

3. Custards containing starch. — When eggs are expensive, starch 
is sometimes used as a means of thickening to supplement the eggs. 
Since starch should be cooked at boiling temperature while eggs 
should be cooked at a temperature below boiling, the starch should 
be cooked with the liquid before adding the egg. 

METHOD OF DEVELOPING LABORATORY WORK. 

In the laboratory work, the teacher should lay especial stress on 
methods of combining eggs with other materials, and the importance 
oi" proper temperature in cooking. 



1 egg. Sugar, 1 teaspoon. 

Milk, f cup. A grating of nutmeg. 

Beat egg thoroughly; add milk and sugar and beat again. Heat In double 
boiler to slightly coagulate the egg white and so increase its digestibility. 
Serve in a glass with nutmeg grated over the surface. If ingredients have not 
been chilled, a little cracked ice may be added. One teaspoon of cocoa may be 
added or whipped cream beaten in for variations. 



USE AND PKEPARATION OF TOOD. 69 



Milk, 1 quart. Viinilla, i teaspoon, or nutmeg. 

4 eggs. Salt, i teaspoon. 

Sugar, i cup. 

Scald the milk, beat eggs slightly, add sugar and salt, stir constantly while 
adding gradually the hot milk. Cook in either of the following ways : 

Soft custard. — Return mixtifre to the double boiler. Stir constantly until 
uuxture thickens. A custard is done when mixture coats the spoon (more 
easily distinguished with a wooden spoon). Strain immediately into a cold 
bowl, or the heat of the metal may cause continued cooking and curdling if a 
small amount is being made. Flavor with vanilla. 

Baked custard. — Pour mixture into oiled custard cups or baking dish. 
Sprinkle with nutmeg. Set in pan of hot water and bake in a slow oven until 
firm. If a sharp-pointed knife is inserted in the custard and comes out clean, 
the custard is done. 

VARIATIONS IN CUSTAKD. 

Two yolks may be used in place of 1 whole egg and the whites saved for 
other uses or for a meringue. Flavoring may be varied, as caramel, chocolate, 
coffee, etc. 

FLOATING ISLAND. 

Make a soft custard, using yolks. Make a meringue of half the whites and 
pile on top of custard when done. 

MERINGUE. 

Beat the eggs whites until stiff, add one-half tablespoon of sugar and a few 
drops of vanilla to each egg white. Drop in spoonfuls on boiling water ; keep 
hot until meringue is set. Remove with egg whisk and place on custard. 

BAKED GOLD OR SILVER CUSTARDS. 

Custards may be made by using yolks or whites alone. Use twice as many 
J oiks or whites as the usual number of whole eggs. (One whole egg to 1 cup 
of milk.) 

CUSTARD PIE. 

Pour custard mixture in partially cooked pie crust and bake in slow oven. 

CUSTARD ICE CREAM. 

Milk, 2 cups. Sugar, 1 cup. 

Flour, 2 tablespoons. Thin cream, 1 quart. 

1 egg. Vanilla, 2 tablespoons. 

Salt. 

Mix flour, sugar, and salt. Add milk, heat, and when thick add the egg^ 
slightly beaten. Cook as for soft custard. Cool, add cream, and flavoring. 
Strain and freeze. If sirup is used as a substitute for sugar, it should be 
added to the milk. 



70 USE AN'D PREPARATIOIT OF FOOD. 

'Lesson 4. The Use or Milk and Cream in Frozen Desserts. 

AIM. 

To show the women the methods of preparing simple frozen de- 
serts from milk and cream. 

POINTS TO BE BROUGHT OUT. 

1. Ice creams should have flavor, body, and a good texture. . 

A. Flavor depends upon the flavor of all the constituents, especially 
the milk or cream; and a slightly ripened cream has a better flavor 
than a cream that is too fresh. 

B. Body is a certain feeling of richness. It is contributed to by : 

(1) Age of cream. 

(2) Amount of fat. 

(3) In case of less rich cream, " fillers" are used to give body. 
Materials most used as fillers are condensed milk, milk powder, 
dextrin, eggs, and ground cereal products (macaroons, nabiscos, 
etc.), and rennin. These increase the amount of material that is 
in solution and dispersion in the liquid, and so increase the ap- 
parent richness of the mixture. 

(4) Air incorporated in freezing increases the apparent bod}? 
of the cream. 

C. The texture of the cream is its smoothness and the ability to 
stand frozen without having ciystals formed. The ice cream manu- 
facturers call this the ability to " stand up." The texture is improved 
by the use of " binders." The binders in most general use are : 

(1) Gelatin. 

(2) Gum tragacanth. 

(3) Ice-cream powders (largely dextrin). 

2. Swell or overrun are the terms used to designate the increase in 
volume during the freezing process. This is due to : 

A. Expansion on change of liquid to a solid. 

B. Incorporation of air. Amount of air incorporated depends 
upon : 

(1) Eichness of mixture. 

(2) Management of freezing. 

3. Principles upon which the freezing of ice cream is based. 

A. A mixture of ice and salt is used for freezing. The salt causes 
the ice to melt. In the process of melting heat is absorbed, which 
teat is drawn from the most accessible source, in this case the mixture 
to be frozen. 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 71 

B. The proportion of ice to salt most generally recommended foi 
use in the household is 3 to 1. A smaller proportion of salt, 1 part 
salt to 7 parts ice, may be successfully used provided both are finely 
divided. The larger the proportion of salt the more rapid the 
freezing. 

4. Materials used in making the freezer are chosen so as to insure 
the withdrawal of the heat from the mixture to be frozen rather than 
from the surrounding air. 

A. The mixture to be frozen is held in a container of metal, which 
is a good conductor, while the freezing mixture is held in the wooden 
container, which is poor conductor of heat. 

B. The dasher has a knife edge for the purpose of removing from 
the sides of the freezer the mixture which freezes there first. By 
cutting this off the unfrozen portion of the mixture comes in contact 
with the cold outside and is in turn frozen. On the other side of 
the dasher there is a whip which serves to beat air into the mixture 
and keep it well mixed. 

5. Technic of freezing : 

A. The can should not be more than three-fourths full of the 
mixture in order to allow room for the necessary expansion on freez- 
ing and for the swell which is the result of the incorporation of air. 

B. The air is incorporated to the greatest extent when the dasher 
is turned rapidly. It is held in best after the mixture has started to 
freeze, so the dasher may be turned slowly until that time, and then 
more rapidly to incorporate air. 

C. After the cream is frozen the dasher should be removed and the 
opening stopped, freezer packed with ice, covered with a piece of car- 
pet, and set aside for the cream to ripen. 

D. Molding. — When it is desired to mold cream in fancy shapes it 
should be frozen as directed above, then tightly packed in molds cov- 
ered with wax paper, sealed around the edges, and completely cov- 
ered with a mixture of ice and salt. The molds are sealed by means 
of a strip of cloth dipped in melted paraffin and brought very quickly 
around the opening. The paraffin hardens on cooling, preventing the 
entrance of salt water. 

6. Mousse and parfait mixtures, composed largely of whipped 
cream or beaten egg white, may be frozen without the use of a freezer, 
since the air is already incorporated. These are simply placed in a 
suitable container, not too thick, sealed and packed in the mixture of 
ice and salt. The easiest frozen dessert to prepare is the mousse. 
In cold weather this may be mixed the night before and frozen by 
placing outside. Whipped cream and beaten egg white are usually 
added to the hard-frozen mixture after the removal of the dasher or 
before packing in containers for molding. 



72 USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 

7. Typical frozen desserts prepared from milk and cream. — The 
names vary in different parts of the country, but the following terms 
have by usage come to be rather definite : 

A. Plain or Philadelphia ice cream is prepared from cream with 
the addition of sugar and flavoring. With the present scarcity of 
milk fat, it is better to use a less rich cream and modify as sug- 
gested in (B). 

B. Plain cream plus a filler. — Suggested fillers are: 

(1) Egg in form of custard, making so-called French ice 
cream. 

(2) Small amount of starch or flour boiled with a portion of 
the milk or cream. 

(3) Ground macaroons, nabiscos, cake, or cookie crumbs fur- 
nish flavor as well as body. 

(4) Gelatin or dextrin. 

C. Lacto creams are prepared by clotting the casein by use of ren- 
nin or precipitating it by the use of acid fruit juice or by natural 
souring. 

The plain creams are sometimes modified by addition after freez- 
ing of whipped egg white or cream. This gives : 

D. Frozen pudding is a frozen custard to which whipped cream 
is added. It usually has also candied fruits and nuts. 

E. Nesselrode pudding is a frozen pudding containing chestnuts. 

F. Parfaits are combinations of egg white and hot sirup combined 
as for a cake icing and whipped cream added. They are frozen in 
a regular freezer. 

G. Mousse is prepared from sweetened flavored whipped cream. 
It is packed and frozen without use of freezer. This gives a char- 
acteristic texture to the product. 

H, Auf ait is whipped cream molded in layers with dried fruit be- 
tween. 

I. Milk sherbets are water ices to which milk has been added. 

METHOD OF DE\T:L0PING LABORATORY WORK. 

Have typical frozen dishes prepared, choosing those best adapted 
to the needs of the women in the class. 

Study the construction of the freezer to be sure the women un- 
derstand the purposes of the various parts. Have various types of 
freezers on hand for comparison. If possible, have a vacuum 
freezer and discuss its use. 

Calculate amount of ice and salt used. Note if there is an}^ dif- 
ference in the efficiency of the different freezers. 

Calculate the total cost per service and compare as to price with 
those purchased. 



USE AND PREPAEATION OF FOOD. 73 

Lesson 5. Cheese and Its Uses in the Diet. 

AIM. 

To show the food value of cheese in comparison with some other 
foods and to suggest ways in which it may be served. 

points to be brought out. 

1. Varieties of cheese. — There are moi;e than 250 varieties of cheese 
made, differing in ingredients, method of ripening and seasoning; 
tliey may be grouped in the following classes : 

A. Hard cheese, such as Cheddar, Edam, or Swiss. 

B. Soft cheese, such as Camembert or Neufchatel. 

C. Very soft cheese, such as cottage cheese. 

Besides cottage cheese, the most economical variety and the most 
generally known in this country is American cream cheese, or Ched- 
dar cheese, made of whole milk. Three-fourths of all the cheese 
made in the United States is of this variety. 

2. Composition and food value: 



[From United States 


Department of Agriculture, OflSce of Experiment Stations, 
Bulletin 28.] 


Description. 


Water. 


Protein. 


Fat. 


Carbo- 
hydrate. 


Mineral. 


Calories 
per pound. 


A.merican cream cheese 


Per cent. 
34.2 


Per cent. 
25.9 


Per cent. 
33.7 


Per cent. 
2.4 


Per cent. 
3.8 


1,950 



Cheese, on account of its high percentage of protein and its sim- 
ilarity in composition to meat, is one of the best meat substitutes. 
It is a most concentrated and nourishing food. A pound furnishes 
more calories than an equal amount of any other food material, ex- 
cept some nuts, very fat meat, butter, and pure fats or oils. It con- 
tains more protein than average beef, twice as much as eggs, and 
eight times as much as milk. It contains more than twice as much 
fat as average beef, three times as much as eggs, and eight times 
as much as milk. 
One pound American Cheddar cheese contains as much protein as — • 

1.57 pounds sirloin steak. 

1.35 pounds round steak. 

1.89 pounds fowl. 

1.79 pounds smoked ham. 

1.81 pounds fresh ham. 
One pound American Cheddar cheese supplies as much energy as — 

1.98 pounds sirloin steak. 

2.61 pounds round steak. 

2.52 pounds fowl. 

1.17 pounds smoked ham, 

1.29 pounds fresh ham. 



74 USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 

The protein of cheese is the casein of milk, one of the most com- 
plete forms of protein. The value of milk fat has already been dis- 
cussed (see lesson 2), and, like milk, cheese is rich in the important 
minerals, calcium and phosphorus. 

3. Cost: 

A. It takes approximately a gallon of milk to make a pound of 
cheese. As the price of milk has risen, so the cost of cheese has 
advanced. Owing, however, to the fact that cheese is a concentrated 
food with no waste the money spent for Cheddar cheese buys nearly 
twice as much food value as if spent for meat. Cheese at 40 cents 
a pound is a cheaper source of protein than meat at 30 cents a pound 
or eggs at 30 cents a dozen. 

B. In the case of more expensive varieties of cheese the increase 
in cost is not due to any increase in nutritive value, but is paid for 
flavor. 

4. Digestibility: 

A. Cheese is a concentrated, close-textured, rich food. Many peo- 
ple who believe cheese is indigestible make the mistake of eating too 
much at one time, failing to chew it well, or eating it at the end of a 
heavy meal. Experiments show that 90 per cent of the protein 
and nearly 90 per cent of the fat are digested and absorbed (a per- 
centage which compares well with, other foods) and that it causes 
no digestive disturbances to an average person when properly eaten. 

5. Points to remember in serving cheese : 

A. Make cheese a real part of the meal and do not add it to an 
already adequate meal. For instance, cheese and meat are not neces- 
sary in the same meal. 

B. For a well-balanced and an attractive meal cheese should be 
served with carbohydrate foods, such as bread, crackers, potatoes, 
or rice, and with crisp fruits and vegetables. 

C. Use a low temperature in cooking cheese. A high temperature 
makes it stringy, tough, and less easily digested. 

D. On account of its concentrated form cheese is more easily di- 
gested if grated and mixed with other foods. Grated cheese may be 
added to macaroni and other such dishes at time of serving. 

6. Suggestions for cheese dishes : 

A. Cheese dishes, used as meat substitutes, such as cheese loaf, 
cheese fondu, and welch rarebit. 

B. Cheese soups and cheese and vegetable combinations. 

C. Cheese salads, sandwiches. 

D. Cheese pastry, cheese wafers. 

METHOD or DEVELOPING LABORATORY WORK. 

The teacher should have on hand samples of different kinds of 
cheese and the prices per pound. Bring out the point that price is 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 75 

not a sign' of nutritive value, but varies with the flavor and the meth- 
ods of making. 

In some localities where there is an abundance of milk it may be 
worth while to give, in connection with this lesson, a demonstration 
on the making of Cheddar cheese, or directions for the process may 
be given to the women and the cheese made by them at home and 
brought to class later. Directions for making Cheddar cheese may 
be obtained in the reference material. 

BOSTON ROAST. 

Kidney beans or equivalent quantity of Bi*ead crumDs. 

cooked beans, 1 pound can. Salt. 

Grated cheese, i pound. 

Mash the beans or put them through the meat grinder. Add the cheese and 
sufficient bread crumbs to make the mixture stiff enough to be formed into a 
roll. Bake in a moderate oven, basting occasionally with butter and water. 
Serve with tomato sauce. This dish may be flavored with onions, chopped and 
cooked in butter and water. 

NUT AND CHEESE KOAST. 

Grated cheese, 1 cup. Butter, 1 tablespoon. 

Chopped English walnuts, 1 cup. Juice of i lemon. 

Bread crumbs, 1 cup. Salt and pepper. 
Chopped onions, 2 tablespoons. 

Cook the onion in the butter and a little water until It Is tender. Mix the 
other ingredients and moisten with the water in which the onion has been 
cooked. Pour into a shallow baking dish and brown in the oven. 

CHEESE AND VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Vegetable stock, 2 cups. Scalded milk, 1 cup. 

Finely chopped carrots, 2 tablespoons. Cheese, i cup, grated. 
Chopped onion, 1 tablespoon. Butter, 2 tablespoons. 

A very little mace. Salt, 1^ teaspoons. 

Flour, 2 tablespoons. "^ - 

Cook the vegetables a short time in one-half of the butter, add the stock and 
the mace, boiling 15 or 20 minutes. Strain and add the milk. Thicken with 
flour cooked in the remaining butter. Just before serving stir in the cheese. 
Serve immediately. 

CHEESE SAUCE. 

Milk, 1 cup. Cheese, 1 ounce (i cup grated cheese). 

Flour, 2 tablespoons. Salt and pepper. 

Thicken milk with the flour, and just before serving add the cheese, stirring 
until it is melted. 

This sauce is suitable to use in preparing creamed eggs or to pour over toast, 
making a dish corresponding to ordinary milk toast, except for the presence of 
cheese. It may be seasoned with a little curry powder and poured over hard- 
boiled eggs or over cooked vegetables, such as cabbage or cauliflower. Col'l 
boiled potatoes may be cut in dice and reheated in the sauce. 



76 USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 

CHEESE FONDU. 

Hot milk, 1 cup. Cheese (grated), 1 cup. 

Bread crumbs, 1 cup. 3 eggs. 

Fat, 1 tablespoon. Salt, i teaspoon. 

Mix the milk, fat, salt, cheese, and bread crumbs. Add the beaten egg yolk, 
and finally fold in the stiffly beaten egg whites. Bake in a greased baking dish 
in a moderate oven. 

WELCH EAEEBIT. 

Butter, 1 tablespoon. Cayenne, few grains. 

Mild cheese, i pound. Milk, J to i cud. 

Mustard, i teaspoon. Salt, i teaspoon. 
1 egg. 

Put butter in saucepan, and when melted add seasonings and cheese cut In 
small pieces. As cheese melts, add milk gradually, then egg slightly beaten. 
Serve on toast or crackers. 



Lesson 6. The Use and Preparation of Cottage Cheese. 

AIM. 

To give methods of making cottage cheese and ways of serving it. 

POINTS TO BE BROUGHT OUT. 

1. Reasons for using cottage cheese: 
- A. A convenient and economical means of using for food skim 
milk, which is frequently considered a waste product. 

B. A product which is easily made with utensils found in every 
home. 

C. Furnishes the valuable protein of milk in a solid form adapted 
to uses different from those of milk. 

D. A much cheaper animal food than any form of meat. As a 
source of building material 1 pound of cottage cheese equals : 

1.27 pounds sirloin steak. 1.44 pounds smoked ham. 

1 pound round steak. 1.58 pounds loin pork chops. 

1..S7 pounds chuck rib beef. 1.31 pounds hind leg lamb. 

1.46 pounds fresh lamb. 1.37 pounds breast of veal. 

E. While cottage cheese furnishes somewhat less energy than a 
corresponding amount of meat it is a cheaper form of energy than 
most meats at present prices. As a source of energy 1 pound of cot- 
tage cheese equals: 

SJ ounces sirloin steak. 5 ounces smoked ham. 

Hi ounces round steak. 6 ounces loin pork chop, 

llj chuck rib beef. 7^ ounces hind leg lamb. 

lOJ ounces fowl. 12^ ounces breast of veal. 
Ss ounces fresh hana. 



USE AND PEEPAEATION OF FOOD. 77 

F. The constituents of cottage cheese are in a very digestible form. 
Cottage cheese is much lower in fat than Cheddar cheese, but this 
deficiency is supplied when cream is used in its preparation, as is 
the usual method. 

2. Methods of making cottage cheese. — There are two metliods for 
making cottage cheese, one known as the ordinary sour-milk process, 
the other called the rennet process. The latter gives a finer and 
more uniform texture and requires less time and attention in making. 
The milk may or may not be pasteurized. If milk is pasteurized first 
by heating to 63° C. (145° F.), and holding at that temperature for 
30 minutes, a starter must be used. 

A. Ordinary sour-silk process. — Allow clean skim milk to sour 
naturallj^ or use a "starter" (milk containing lactic acid bacteria), 
about two tablespoons to a quart of milk. Keep at a temperature of 
24° C. (75° F.) until curdled. This is about 30 hours or mx>re with- 
out a starter or 12 to 15 hours with a starter. Stir with a spoon or 
cut curd and heat to 38° C. (100° F.) for 20 to 30 minutes. A ther- 
mometer should be used to insure success. Stir occasionally. Do not 
let milk get any hotter^ for a higher tem'perature toughens the curd. 
When whey begins to separate and come to the top it is time to drain. 
Pour upon cheesecloth or into a fine strainer. Drain for 20 to 30 
minutes, squeezing or moving curd to assist draining. Add one tea- 
spoon of salt to the cheese from two to three quarts of milk. Add 
sweet or sour cream and mix with curd thoroughly. 

B. Rennet process, — Liquid rennet, junket tablets, or pepsin may 
be used to produce coagulation sooner than in the previous process. 
A starter may be used if desired. Two or three drops of liquid 
rennet to hasten process or one-eighth of a junket tablet dissolved in 
one tablespoon of cold water are used to a gallon of milk. Warm to 
24° C. (75° F.) and keep at that temperature until curdled: then 
pour upon a cheesecloth without cutting or further heating. Drain, 
press, and season. 

3. Uses for cottage cheese: 

A. Sandwiches — 

Lettuce alid cottage cheese. 

Nut and cottage cheese. 

Jelh^ and cottage cheese. 

Pimento, olive, or pickles and cottage cheese. 

Raisin, fig, date, and cheese paste. 

Club sandwich with cottage cheese. 

B. Salads and salad dressing — 

Nut and cheese balls. 
Tomatoes stuifed with cheese. 
Pepper rings stuffed with cheese. 
Prunes, dates, stuffed with cheese. 



78 USE AND PREPARATIOlSr OF FOOD. 

Peaches or pineapple with cheese balls and nuts. 

Celery and cheese. 

Cottage cheese salad dressing. 

C. Main dishes — 

Served plain with cream or top milk. 

Cheese loaf. 

Cheese sausage. 

Cheese omelette or souffle. 

Scrambled eggs with cottage cheese. 

D. Desserts — 

Cottage cheese tarts. 

Cottage cheese pudding. 

Cottage cheese pie. 

Cheese custard. 

Served with cream and sugar, or preserved or fresh fruits. 
4. Uses for whey. — The whey contains more than one-fourth the 
total food value of the milk and should not be wasted. It may be 
used : 

A. As the liquid in boiled salad dressing. 

B. As the liquid in cornstarch or tapioca pudding. 

C. As the liquid in gelatin desserts. 

D. As the liquid in yeast bread. 

E. In beverages. 

F. In whey honey, as a sirup for hot cakes. 

G. Whey ice. 

METHOD OF DEVELOPING LABORATORY WORK. 

Cottage cheese should be made in class by both methods. Since 
the time required for the setting of the milk is much longer than 
the laboratory period, two members of the class may be asked to set 
the milk for the cheese at home according to directions furnished 
by the teacher, and to bring the curdled milk to class, where the 
cheese is to be made. Have the cheese made by the two processes 
compared as to (1) texture, (2) flavor, (3) amount of time and at- 
tention required. 

In selecting recipes, a part of those given may be used for class 
practice and the women asked to try others at home and report their 
success. 

CHEESE DRESSING. 

Oil, 6 tablespoons. Cottage cheese, * cup. 

Vinegar, li tablespoons. Chili sauce, 2 tablespoons. 

Salt • Paprika. 

Combine the oil and vinegar and beat thoroughly. Add cheese and seasonings 
and mis well. Pour over head lettuce. 



USE AND PEEPAEATION OF FOOD. 



79 



CHEESE CUSTABD. 



Milk, 1 cup. 

One egg. 

Sugar, sirup, or honey, 1 tablespoon. 

Gelatin, 1 teaspoon. 



Cold water, 2 tablespoons. 
Vanilla, ^ teaspoon. 
Cottage cheese, 1 cup. 
Salt. 



Heat the milk, pour it gradually over the beaten yolk of egg, add the sweet- 
ening, and cook the mixture until it coats a spoon. Soak the gelatin in the 
cold water ; dissolve it by setting the cup in boiling water. Beat the white of 
egg until it is light, add the vanilla and the dissolved gelatin. Beat the mixture 
until it is very stiff. Fold this into the custard mixture. Chill the pudding. 
Just before serving it, add the cheese, slightly salted. 

COTTAGE CHEESE PIE. 



Cottage cheese, 1 cup. 
Sugar, ^ cup. 
Honey, i cup. 
Milk, § cup. 

Mix the ingredients In the order given. Bake the pie in one crust, 
slightly, cover it with meringue, and brown it in a slow oven. 



Yolk of 2 eggs, beaten. 
Melted butter, 2 tablespoons. 
Vanilla, J teaspoon. 
Salt. 



Cool It 



COTTAGE CHEESE LOAF. 



Cooked kidney beans, 1 cup 
Cottage cheese, 1 cup. 
Ground peanuts, 1 cup. 
Bread crumbs, 1 cup. 
Boiled rice, 1 cup. 



Chopped onion, 1 tablespoon. 
Fat, 1 tablespoon. 
Tomato juice, 1 cup. 
Salt. 
Pepper. 



Mix the ingredients well and form the mixture into a roll. Brush It over 
•with melted fat, and bake it in a moderate oven for 25 minutes. Serve the loaf 
with a medium thick white sauce, to which may be added 2 tablespoons of 
minced sweet red pepper. 

COTTAGE CHEESE SAUSAGES. 



Thyme, i teaspoon. 

Milk, 1 tablespoon. 

Soda, i teaspoon. 

Finely chopped onion, 1 tablespoon. 

Salt, 1 tablespoon. 

Pepper, ^ teaspoon. 



Cottage cheese, 1 cup. 

Bread crumbs, 1 cup or cold cooked 

rice, i cup, and bread crumbs, i cup. 
Peanut butter, i cup, or savory fat, 2 

tablespoons. 
Coar.sely chopped peanut meats, J cup. 
Powdered sage, i teaspoon. 

The bread crumbs may be made from left-over corn, barley, or other quick 
breads. Cook the onion in the fat until tender, but not brown. Dissolve 
the soda in the milk and work into the cheese. Mix all other ingredients 
thoroughly with the bread crumbs. Blend peanut butter and onion with the 
cheese, and mix with them the bread crumbs. Form into flat cakes, dust with 
bread crumbs or corn meal, and fry a delicate brown in a little fat in a hot 
frying pan. 

Variations. — To utilize left-over cereals, use 1 cup cooked rice, oat meal, or 
corn-meal mush with three-fourths cup of bread crumb mixture. Dry corn meal 
or finely ground oat meal may he used for stiffening the above mixture, but in 



80 USE AND PREPAEATION OF FOOD. 

such case it Is better to form into a loaf and bake it in tbe oven about 25 
minutes. 

Otlier seasonings may be used in place of the above. The amount of liquid 
will vary in every case. The mixture should be very stiff, since the cheese 
tends to soften it during the cooking. 

COTTAGE CHEESE OMELETTE. 

Two eggs. Milk, 2 tablespoons. 

Chopped pimentos, 1 tablespoon. Soda, i tablespoon. 

Cottage cheese, 3 rounded tablespoons. Salt, i teaspoon. 

Beat the yolks and whites of the eggs separately. Add to the yolks the 
salt, the milk, and the cheese, with which have been blended the pimentos ; 
Anally fold in the stiffly beaten whites ; pour into a hot frying pan, in which has 
been melted about one-half tablespoon fat. Cook the omelette slowly until 
the egg has set ; place in the oven for a few moments to finish cooking and 
told over in the center. Garnish with parsley. Other seasoning may be used, 
such as chopped parsley, green pepper, or minced ham. 

WHEY LEMONADE. 

Whey, 4 cups. Slices of lemon, or a little grated or 

Sugar, 6 tablespoons. diced rind, nutmeg, or cinnamon. 

Two lemons. 

WHEY HONEY. 

Whey, 1 cup. Sugar, J cup. 

Mix whey and sugar and boil the mixture until it is of the consistency c4 
strained honey. This sirup will keep indefinitely, if properly bottled, and is 
delicious for spreading on waffles or pancakes. Used a little thinner it makes 
an excellent pudding sauce. Since it requires no tliickening it is the easiest 
possible sauce to make. 



Lesson 7. The Luncheon or Supper Menu. 

AIM. 

To prepare menus for luncheon or supper, using eggs and dairy 
products as substitutes for meat. 

POINTS TO BE BROUGHT OUT. 

1. In the preceding lessons eggs, milk, and cheese have been shown 
to be as good forms of tissue-building foods as meat. They may 
therefore be substituted for meat dishes in a meal for variety or when 
meat is expensive. 

2. Luncheon or supper menus should be planned with few dishes, 
for the sake of simplicity and economy. This is a good place for 
" one-dish " meals. 

3. Li planning the menu take into consideration — 



USE AISTD PREPARATION OF FOOD. 81 

A. Time of day to be served ; if for luncheon at noon or for sup- 
per in the evening. This affects the amount and kind of food to 
be served. 

B. Ease of preparation; if dinner is the heavy meal of the day, 
both breakfast and luncheon should be simplified. 

C. Proper balance of foods. (See Unit XII, Lesson 3.) 

METHOD or DEVELOPING LABORATORY WORK. 

Have planning and preparation of meatless menus which will illus- 
trate the principal points taught in this unit. Endeavor to have 
these meals pleasing and avoid monotony in character and flavor. 
The following suggestions for menus may be used or the women may 
be asked to bring in menus for criticism : 

1. A noon or evening lunch for winter. 

2. A noon or evening lunch for summer. 

3. A Sunday evening supper which may be prepared in advance 
and served with little preparation at meal time. 

I. II. III. 

Cheese soufflS. Cheese omelette. Cottage cheese salad. 

Popovers. Baked potato. Cucumbers. 

Cocoa. Green vegetable. Thin bread and butter. 

Stewed fruit. Fruit. Iced tea. 



Fresh fruit. 



REFERENCES. 



U. S. Department of Agriculture : 

Fanners' Bulletin 413. Care of Milk and Its Use in the Home. 

Farmers' Bulletin 363. Use of Milk as Food. 

Farmers' Bulletin 128. Eggs and Their Use as Food. 

Farmers' Bulletin 487. Cheese and Its Economical Use in the Diet. 

Fai-mers' Bulletin 850. How to Make Cottage Cheese on the Farm. 

Farmers' Bulletin 960. Neufchatel and Cream Cheese; Farm Manufacture 

and Use. 
States Relations Service, Bulletin 471. Eggs and Their Value as Food. 
Circular 109. Cottage Cheese Dishes. 
Department Bulletin 177. The Production and Consumption of Dairy 

Products. 
Bureau Animal Industry : 

Bulletin 319. Fermented Milks. 

Bulletin 342. The Present Status of the Pasteurization of Milk. 

128209°— 19 6 



UNIT V. 

Fats. 
GENERAL INFORMATION. 

1. A world shortage in fats. — There is a world shortage of 1,500,- 
000 tons of fats. The chief fats of export are dairy products, pork 
products, and vegetable oils. The shortage in animal fats is due to 
the same conditions that have brought about a meat shortage in 
Europe — the destruction of herds by the enemy, the killing of ani- 
mals for food because of the general food shortage and because 
of the lack of animal feeds. The high protein feeds necessary for 
dairy cattle especially are lacking ; of these there is a world shortage 
of 3,000,000 tons. The production of vegetable oils in southern 
Europe was considerably decreased during the period of the war. 

2. Need of fats in the diet. — Fats are an absolute necessity in the 
diet. With too little there is malnutrition and diminished resistance 
to disease. Fats enter largely into the food needs of men and women 
in heavy industry because of their high energy value. They are 
also important psychologically. Most i^eoples are accustomed to so 
general a use of fat in cooking that they are dissatisfied without it. 

3. The production of fats in the United States. — The United States 
is tlv only country of all those which were engaged in the war which 
has a surplus of fats. We have animal fats far beyond our needs. 
Normally we export about one-third of the lard we produce. In 
normal times we export very little butter, but the exportation of 
butter has greatly increased since the war: Butter exports, 1913, 
3,585,600 pounds; 1917, 26,835,092 pounds. Of oleomargarine we 
export normally about half as much as of butter, and these exports 
are increasing, but we export a large quantity of oleo oil to be made 
into oleomargarine abroad. 

The large reserve stores of fats in America are the vegetable oils, 
in which the development of industry has recently brought about a 
great variety — oils made from cottonseed, corn, peanuts, coconuts, 
etc. There has been a tremendous increase in the manufacture and 
export of these since the beginning of the war. 

■i. Need of an economical use of fats. — Until recently the fats have 
been consumed in excessive quantities in this country and so wan- 
tonly wasted that the utilization of fats from the garbage of large 
cities has been a highly profitable industry. This waste has been 
82 



USE AND PREPARATIOlSr OF FOOD. 83 

markedly reduced. It must be reduced still further, however, and 
our consumption of fat must be lessened in order that from our 
plenty we may help to meet the serious needs of other countries. 



I^ESsoN 1. The Selection of Fats; Method of Handling Was'it 

Fats in the Home. 



AIM. 

To show the place of fat in the diet, to point out possible economics 
in the use of table fats, and to show how to prepare meat fats for use 
in cooking. 

points to be brought out. 

1. Use of fats in the diet: 

A. Some fat should be included in each day's meals because — 

(1) Fat is a high energ y-Y>i'odi\cmg or fuel food. People 
who do much physical work need generous amounts of fat. An 
ounce of fat supplies the body with energy to do two and one- 
fourth times as much muscular work as does an ounce of sugar 
or of starch. 

(2) Certain of the animal fats contain one of the substances 
called " growth substances," " vitamines," etc., that are believed 
to be essential for growth and maintenance of health. This 
essential substance has been called " fat soluble A," and is 
found in glandular organs, milk fat, and the fats in egg yolk. 

(3) Fat improves the quality of the diet by improving the 
flavor and texture of many foods, thus making possible a greater 
variety in cooking. Frying, roasting, the making of sauces 
and gravies, and the making of cakes, pastries, and quick breads 
all require fat. 

(4) Fat increases the " staying " quality of a meal by increas- 
ing the length of time it takes the stomach to digest it. This 
means that the " hunger pangs " which occur at regular inter- 
vals in a completely empty stomach are not felt so early when 
the meal contains some fat. 

B. Too much fat in the diet predisposes to chronic indigestion, 
especially in the case of children. Care should be taken to avoid an 
exee-^s of fat in the family meals. 

2. Kinds of fat commonly used in the household: 

A. Animal fats, such as butter, lard, suet. 

B. Vegetable fats, such as olive oil, corn oil, cottonseed oil, vari- 
ous nut oils, and hardened fats made from these oils and fish oils by 
a commercial process. 



84 USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 

C. Considerable amounts of both animal and vegetable fats are 
supplied to the diet from various foods which the housewife fre- 
quently overlooks in estimating the fat requirement of her family. 
Such foods are egg yolk, cream, cheese, meats, chocolate, soy beans, 
and nuts. 

3. Table fats: 

A. Food value of butter. — Although butter is generally used for 
the table for the sake of its flavor, from the standpoint of the dieti- 
tian it is a very important food, for butter fat contains in generous 
quantities one of the substances so essential for growth and health. 
For this reason butter is an important part of the diet of children 
and adults. If other fats must be substituted for table butter, care 
should be taken that the diet includes plenty of whole milk, eggs, 
and leaf vegetables if the deficiency in this " dietary essential " is 
to be met. 

B. Ways of extending the butter flavor. — If it is not possible to 
afford the normal and desirable supply of butter for table use there 
are various ways of extending the butter flavor over mixtures con- 
sisting only partly of butter. Such " merged butters " are usually 
made by combining equal parts of softened butter and whole milk. 
The process results in apparently doubling the amount of butter, 
and while the mixture has an agreeable flavor and a butterlike 
texture it must be remembered that the food value of the original 
ingredients is not altered and that the mixture has not the same 
food value as an equal measure of butter. 

C. Butter substitutes. — There are many brands of butter substi- 
tutes on the market, made from various combinations of animal and 
vegetable oils and fats, churned in milk to obtain the butter flavor. 
These are good, wholesome products and may be safely used in the 
mixed diet. 

4. Cooking fats: 

A. Beside the fats commonly used for cooking, such as lard and 
compounds, the housewife should make use of all excess meat fats, 
both for the sake of conservation and of economy. She should 
insist that all meat trimmings paid for be sent home. All fat that 
can be spared from steaks, chops, or roasts should be cut off before 
cooking, covered, and set aside in a cold place until enough to be 
rendered has been collected. A surprising quantity can be accumu- 
lated in a short time without spoiling the flavor or juiciness of the 
meat. Fat from chickens or other fowls may be used in the same 
manner. 

B. Any fats that have a decided flavor may be improved by ren- 
dering with sweet milk. 

C. Fats with decided flavors may also be made into savory fat and 
used for sauteing or gravy making. 



USE AND PKEPAEATION OF FOOD. 85 

D. Some fats, such as beef suet or mutton fat, are too hard to be 
used conveniently in cooking. These may be rendered with a softer 
fat, such as a vegetable oil, or the two may be mixed after the suet 
is rendered to obtain a fat of any desired consistency. 

E. The cracklings left from rendering suet should not be thrown 
away. They contain sufficient fat to make them valuable in cooking. 
Four to six tablespoons of cracklings are equivalent to one tablespoon 
of clear fat. They may be ground, salted lightly, and stored in glass 
jars until needed. These are especially desirable in the preparation 
of corn bread and are good served with baked potato. 

5. Economical use of fats: 

A. Even a small saving of fat is important. Every bit saved by 
careful management helps to make the world's supply go further 
and helps to lessen the household bills. Some of the ways of saving 
fat in the household are — 

(1) Train the members of the family not to take more butter 
than they need. Any butter left over on the plate may be saved 
and used for special cooking. 

(2) Trim excess fat from meat before cooking. It is liable to 
become overheated during the cooking process and will not be so 
good. 

(3) Meat skins, bacon rind, or trimmings of ham may be used 
in seasoning turnips, greens, cabbage, or beans. 

(4) Use only the necessary amount of fat in making gravies 
for meat. Excess fat should be poured off and used for other 
things instead of being left to float on top of the gravy. 

(5) Keep a covered jar in the kitchen into which may be 
drained small amounts of fat from cooking pans which would 
otherwise go into the dishwater. 

(6) The use of a small brush or bit of paper in oiling pans 
■will spread the fat evenly with no excess. 

(7) Cover fats in an opaque dish and place in a cool, dark 
place to keep them fresh and sweet. 

(8) Use less fat in cooking; less pastry, less fried food, less 
fat in any recipe. 

(9) Watch the meals to see that an unnecessary amount of fat 
is not supplied. If a fat meat or a rich gravy is served, butter 
can be omitted. 

(10) Check up on the amount of fat used in the family and 
compare it with the safe minimum allowance. (Unit X, Lesson 
2.) If necessary, reduce the family allowance of fat. 

Note. — The teacher may ask the class for other suggestions as to practical 
economies in the use of fats. 



86 USE AND PEEPAEATIOlSr OF FOOD. 

METHOD OF DEVELOPING LABORATORY WORK. 

Have on exhibit as many as possible of the following kinds of fat : 
Beef kidney, beef flank, lamb or mutton, pork, and chicken. Theso 
will illustrate the difference in color and hardness between the fat of 
different animals and even of different parts of the same animal. 
These may later be used by the class to illustrate the rendering of fat. 
Each member may render one kind of suet. The suet should bo 
weighed before rendering, and the fat and cracklings obtained should 
be weighed separately. Have the women calculate the cost of the 
fat, and discuss with them the economy of buying suet to be rendered 
and also of trimming meats before cooking. 

The blending or merging of butter may be demonstrated by the 
teacher. Omit this entirely if the class is familiar with the process. 

RENDERING FAT. 

Put the suet or meat trimmings tlirougii a meat cliopper or cliop it fine with 
a knife. If it has a strong odor, soak it awhile in salt water before rendering, 
and add a pinch of soda during the rendering process. Render in a double 
boiler or in a pan set in the oven or on the back of the stove until the fat can be 
pressed from the tissue or cracklings. Strain off the clear fat, squeezing out as 
much as possible from the cracklings. Fat keeps better if it has not been 
heated to too high a temperature. Store in clean tin pails or crocks, tightly 
covered, in a cool place. 

REDUCING THE FLAVOR OF FATS. 

Mutton or beef fat may have the characteristic flavor reduced by rendering 
with one-half as much sweet milk (by measure). The flavor of mutton fat may 
be satisfactorily disguised by browning in it slices of apple. The apple is pala- 
table enough to be served as fried apple. 

CLARIFYING FATS. 

Rendered fats may be clarified by mixing with cold water, allowing to heat 
up slowly to boiling, stirring frequently, then set aside to cool. Lift off the 
cake of clarified fat from the top and reheat to drive off any moisture so that 
it will keep. 

SAVORY FAT. 

strong-flavored fats may be made into savory fats by adding to each pound 
of suet, in rendering, one small whole onion, a sour apple sliced thick, and a 
scant teaspoon of ground thyme or mixed herbs tied in a cloth. Other com- 
binations of seasonings may be used. 

SOFTENING A HARD FAT. 

To two or three parts of hard fats, such as beef or mutton, mix one part of 
soft fat, such as lard, chicken fat, or vegetable oil. The amount will depend 
upon the relative consistencies. The mixing may be accomplished by render- 
ing the two kinds of fat together or by stirring the melted fats together. Stir 
the mixture at intervals during cooling. 



USE AND PREPARATIOIT OF FOOD. 87 

FRIED MUSH WITH CRACKLINGS. 

Yellow cornmeal, 1 cup. Boiling water, 3^ cups. 

Crackliugs, 4 cup. Salt, 1^ to 2 teaspoons. 

Flour, 2 tablespoons. 

Mix cornmeal and flour and sift it into the boiling salted water. Cool? over 
direct heat until it thickens ; then finish over hot water or in a tireless cooker. 
Just before molding in a disli moistened witli cold water, stir in the cracklings. 
Let stand until solid ; then cut and fry as ordinary mush. A little cheese may 
be stirred into the mush before molding, if desired. 

Lesson 2. The Use of Home-Rendeeed Fats in Cooking, 

AIM. 

To show how home- rendered meat fats may be used in cooking. 

POINTS TO be brought OUT. 

1. The modern housewife has almost lost the art of utilizing home- 
rendered meat fats in cooking. The advancing cost of living makes 
it important that all meat fats be saved and substituted in cooking 
for the more familiar commercial fats. 

A. The characteristic flavor of a fat may be utilized. Instead of 
tlirowing away ham or bacon fat on account of its smoky flavor, 
they may be used in dishes to which they give distinctive flavors. 
These include eggs or potatoes, scrambled eggs, Spanish sauce, corn- 
bread, baked beans, baked peas, bean or pea soup. These fats are 
a J so useful for seasoning spinach or other greens or for use in hot 
dressing for salads. (See Lesson 5.) 

B. The unpleasant flavor of some fats may be disguised or re- 
duced. Savory fats or mutton fats rendered with milk (Lesson 1) 
nuiy be used for frying or sauteing or for making gravies or sauces. 
(Sausage fat is an example of savory fat.) Strongly-flavored fats, 
like ham, bacon, or mutton, may be used in highly-seasoned mix- 
tures, such as gingerbread or chocolate cake. 

C. Hard fats, when softened, may be used to take the place of 
more usual fats in making bread, cake, and pastry. 

(1) Butter and lard are usually used for making bread, cake, 
and pastry, because they are soft enough to mix readily and 
evenly with other ingredients and do not harden enough to 
make the flour mixture crumbly if it stands for any length of 
time. 

(2) Hard fats, such as beef -kidney fat, lamb or mutton fat, 
are not satisfactory in their natural state for use in flour mix- 
tures, because they must be melted to mix easily, and they 



8 a USE AND PEEPAKATION OF FOOD. 

harden rapidly, producing a crumbly mixture. If they are 
mixed with a softer fat (Lesson 1) to make a compoimd with 
the approximate consistency of lard or butter, they may be used 
in any bread, cake, or pastry. 

(3) Some natural fats are soft enough to be used unmodified 
in flour mixtures. These are the vegetable oils, such as cotton- 
seed, corn, and peanut, chicken fat, and beef -flank fat, sometimes 
called " cod suet." The chicken fat may be clarified as directed 
in Lesson 1. It is especially prized as a butter substitute iu 
cake and pastry making. 

(4) Method of substituting other fats for butter in flour mix- 
tures. — Butter is not all pure fat. Nearly one-fifth of its weight 
is made up of water, curd, and salt. When substituting pure 
fats, like beef drippings, lard, or oil, use about one-fifth less and 
add extra salt. 

METHOD OF DEVELOPING LABORATORY WORK. 

This lesson may be used not only to suggest methods of using fats 
but also desirable methods of cooking bacon in order to recover the 
fat for household use. The class maj^ demonstrate the cooking of 
bacon by the two methods given below and reserve the fat to be used 
(in addition to the fats left from the preceding lesson) in demon- 
strating the dishes suggested. 

(1) Bake the bacon in a pan or on a rack set in a pan in a 
hot oven. (Economy in fuel may be suggested by using oven 
already heated for toast or biscuits.) 

(2) Fry in deep fat in a small saucepan in which fat is 
allowed to accumulate. The pan should be covered while the 
fat is heating and cooling. The advantages of this method are : 
The fat heats quickly, little odor escapes, the bacon is quickly 
and evenly cooked, loss of fat is prevented by storing in the 
same dish in which it is used, and the fat can be taken out from 
time to time for use in cooking. 

The bacon should be weighed before cooking and the fat weighed. 
Have the v.^omen calculate its cost value when substituted for butter 
or lard in cooking, the cost of a slice of bacon when the fat is wasted, 
and the reduction in actual cost of the bacon when the fat is utilized. 

Have the pupils make gingerbread and chocolate drop cakes, using 
any standard recipe or those given in Unit VII, Lessons 5 and 8, and 
Unit VIII, Lesson 3. In the gingerbread substitute bacon fat for the 
fat called for; in the chocolate drop cakes use the fat compound 
left from Lesson 1 or use a mixture of one part bacon fat and two 
parts mutton fat. While the cakes are baking the recipes given 
below may be demonstrated. 



USE AND PKEPAEATION OF FOOD. 89 

BROWN GRAVY. 

Use only as much fat as the flour will " bind " ; never more than equal parts. 
Good proportions are 1^ to 2 tablespoons fat, 2 to 3 tablespoons flour, 1 cup 
water or stock. If an excess of fat is used, it will rise to the top of the gravy. 
Rlix flour with the fat and brown, avoiding scorching. A pinch of sugar 
browned in the hot pan will give the gravy a rich brown color and will improve 
the flavor. Add hot water or stock and dimmer 5 to 10 minutes. Season with 
salt, pepper, and other desired seasonings, such as celery leaf, bay leaf, slice 
of onion, spoonful of tomato catsup or canned tomatoes. Savory fat is excellent 
for making brown gravy. 

SPANISH SAUCE. 

1 green pepper. Sugar, 1 to 2 teaspoons. 

1 red pepper. Water, 1 cup. 

1 small onion. Canned tomatoes, 1 cup. 

Bacon or other fat, 2 tablespoons. Salt and pepper. 

Flour, 1^ tablespoons. C chopped mushrooms, if desired. 

Chop the onion and pepper, simmer for five minutes in the fat, then add 
water and tomatoes and cook until the onion and peppers are tender. Thicken 
with the flour blended with i cup water and cook five minutes longer to blend 
the flavors. If fresh peppers are used, they may be parboiled for five minutes 
if the strong flavor is disliked. 



Lesson 3. The Use of Fat in Pastry. 



AIM. 

To give the general rules for successful pastry making, and to sug- 
gest ways of using less pie crust and less fat in pie crust. 

POINTS TO BE BROUGHT OUT. 

1. The use of pastry is to be discouraged both from the standpoint 
of the uneconomical use of fat involved and its indigestibility. In 
an}- case only simple pastry should be given and preferably the one 
crust pies. 

2. The amount of shortening used in the crust should be reduced. 
This can be done more successfully than the average housewife 
realizes. 

3. Points in making pie crust: 
A. Mixing: 

(1) Use the best flour. Many cooks prefer pastry flour. 

(2) Skilled pastry cooks differ as to the fat to be preferred. 
Butter, lard, mixtures of the two, clarified chicken fat, clarified 
beef flank fat, and various commercial fats may be used. The 



90 USE AND PEEPARATIOlSr OF FOOD. 

fat must be soft enough to mix well, yet not too soft. Vegetal)le 
oils are used by some pastry cooks, but they require skillful 
handling for good results. 

(3) Have all ingredients cold and work on a cold surface. 
Pastry is usually improved by chilling dough before rolling it 
out. 

(4) Standard rules usually call for one-half to one-third as 
much fat as flour, by measure. Satisfactory pastry may be made 
by using one-fourth as much fat as flour, by measure. During 
the fat shortage not more than this amount should be used. 
When amount of fat is reduced, a little baking powder may be 
added to make the crust flakier. 

(5) Mix and sift flour and salt, and baking powder if it is 
used. 

(6) Add the shortening, cutting it in with a knife. Some 
cooks w^ork it in lightly with the tips of the fingers. 

(7) Measure out the liquid called for in the rule and add three- 
fourths of it to the mixture. The general proportion is some- 
what less than one-fourth cup of very cold water to one cup 
of flour. Too much water makes the pastry tough. Stir briskly 
with a knife to mix evenly and avoid toughening of the dough. 

By this time most of the dough will be sticking together in 
little separate rolls. If in pressing these lumps together they 
should not only cling together but readily collect about them 
whatever loose flour there may be, sufficient water will have been 
added; but as long as the mixture when pressed remains to 
some degree crumbly, it is a sign that more water is required. 
A sure sign of its having been properly mixed is that the dough 
can be rolled into a lump and the basin wiped out cleanly with 
it as with a cloth. 
B. Rolling out: 

(1) Flour pastry board slightly, lay dough on it and shape 
into a neat, flat, oblong shape. 

(2) First press dough out a little with rolling pin; then roll 
to required thickness with short, quick strokes, bringing the 
roller down rather sharply at beginning of each stroke to drive 
the paste in front of it. In rolling always stop just short of the 
edge of the crust. Alwaj^s roll straight forward. To change 
shape of dough, don't roll obliquely but change position of dough 
on the board. (An excellent modification of this procedure is 
given below under rule for fat-saving pastry III.) Roll thin. 

(3) Handle and roll as little as possible. Ordinary pie crust 
requires but one rolling; flaky pastries or puii pastes require 
several. 



USE AND PREPAKATION OF FOOD. 91 

C. Baking: 

(1) Bake in a hot oven 278° C. (500° F.). 

(2) Crust for a one-crust pie. is often baked separately on the 
inverted pie tin and pricked to prevent bubbles forming in it. 
Good results are obtained by brushing the uncooked crust with 
slightly beaten white of egg before filling it. 

(3) Perforated pie tins and pie plates made of heavy wir;> 
netting allow the heat to reach the crust evenly and quickly. 

D. General rules: 

(1) One cup of flour makes enough crust for two small single 
crust pies or one medium-sized double-crust pie. 

(2) Flakiness depends largely upon the amount of fat used. 

(3) Lightness depends largely upon the mixing and rolling. 

(4) Tenderness depends upon the flour and the skill in mix- 
ing. Too much water tends to make the crust tough. 

METHOD OF DEVELOPING LABORATORY WORK. 

If the class includes a few skillful pastry cooks, draw out from 
them the general principles of successful mixing, rolling, and baking. 
Do not allow too much time for description of details of individual 
preferences in ingredients or manipulation. 

At least two of the fat-saving pastries should be made in class. 
If possible, let each person mix enough for a small one-crust pie to 
take home, and bake separately one or two small strips of the crust 
to determine flavor and texture of pastry. Any rule may be used 
that does not require too much fat. Rendered beef fat, a mixture of 
beef fat and lard, clarified chicken fat, and hardened vegetable fat 
(commercial) may be used by different members of the class and the 
pastry compared as to flavor and texture. 

FAT-SAVING PASTRY I. 

(Two small single-crust pies.) 

Flour, 1 cup. Ice water. 

Fat, i cup. Salt, ^ teaspoon. 

Butter, lard, a hardened fat, oleomargarine, drippings, chicken fat, refined 
oils, or combinations of two or more may be used for the fat. 

Sift flour, measure and sift flour and salt. Cut in shortening with two 
knives. Add water to make a stiff dough. Chill, roll out on floured board. 

FAT-SAVING PASTRY II. 

(Hot-water paste; two small single-crust pies.) 

Flour, 1 cup. Baking powder, i teaspoon. 

Fat, 4 tablespoons. Salt, i teaspoon. 
Boiling water, 3 tablespoons. 



92 



USE AND PEEPARATION OF FOOD. 



Sift flour, salt, and baking powder into basin ; rub fat lightly into them • 
then stir in boiling water. Cool paste before using it, or it will be too sticlcy 
to handle. 

FAT-SAVING PASTKY lU. 

(Four small single-crust pies.) 



Baking powder, Ij teaspoons. 
Flour, 2i cups. 
Fat, 2 cup. 



Lemon juice, 1 teaspoon. 
Cold water. 
Salt, * teaspoon. 



Sift and mix together flour, salt, and baking powder. Chop fat in or rub it 
in with finger tips. Chill two hours. Then take out one-half cup and to re- 
mainder add lemon juice and cold water gradually to make stiff paste. Knead 
lightly and roll into a long, narrow strip. Sprinkle dough with half of reserved 
mixture and fold so as to make three layers. Turn halfway around, roll again 
into a strip, sprinkle with rest of mixture, and fold as before. Roll and fold 
twice more and bake. 

DEEP-DISH APPLE PIE. 

Line a deep pie plate with crust, building it well up around the edges. Bake 
crust separately, or before tilhng ; brush with slightly beaten white of egg, 
then fill with apples that have been stewed with sugar, and a little seasoning. 
Lemon juice and grated rind, or cinnamon or nutmeg make good additions. 
In normal times a little fat is added to the apples. 

Serve phiin or with cream or cover with meringue and place in hot oven 
until brown. 

BUTTEB SCOTCH PIE. 



(One pie.) 



1 egg. 

Dark brown sugar, 1 cup. 

Milk, 1 cup. 

Flour, 3 tablespoons. 

Fat, 2 tablespoons. 



Water, 3 tablespoons. 
Powdered sugar. 1 tablespoon. 
Vanilla, i teaspoon. 
1 baked crust. 
Salt, i teaspoon. 



Put yolk of egg into saucepan ; add brown sugar, flour, milk, water, fat, and 
salt. Stir over fire till mixture thickens and comes to boiling point, but do not 
boil. Add vanilla. Pour Into baked pie shell. Beat white of egg stiff, then 
beat into it the powdered sugar. Spread meringue on top of pie and brown 
slightly in moderate oven. 



Lesson 4. The Use of Fat in F«ying. 



AIM. 



To give an idea of the amount and cost of fat required for deep- 
fat frying and for sauteing; to teach the technic of this method; 
to suggest methods of obtaining the texture and flavor of fried foods 
with a smaller expenditure of fat. 



USE AND PREPAKATION" OF FOOD. 93 

POINTS TO BE BROUGHT OUT. 

1. " Fried " foods are popular mainly because of their crisp brown- 
ness and of the high flavor developed by the intense heat of the fat. 
Technically speaking, only foods cooked in deep fat are fried. Foods 
cooked in shallow fat are sauteed. It is desirable to understand the 
distinction, although the same idea is frequently expressed in a more 
roundabout way by the expressions " fried in deep fat," " fried in 
shallow fat." 

2. For the healthy adult a small amount of properly fried or 
sauteed food is perfectl}'^ wholesome. Food poorly fried, or too much 
fried food, even if properly fried, is distinctly hard on the stomach 
and predisposes to chronic indigestion. Little children should not 
be given any fried food, and school children should have it only 
sparingly. 

3. On a small allowance of fat, people ought not to have much 
fried food, unless they economize in fat in other dishes. The general 
effect of frjdng may be obtained for a good many foods by brushing 
them with melted fat and browning them in a hot oven. 

4. When fat has been reheated frequently it becomes dark and 
gradually loses its capacity to hold a high degree of heat before 
scorching. It may be improved by clarifying (see below), but finally 
becomes unfit for frying and should be used for soap. 

6. Special points in deep-fat frying: 

A. Mixtures of meat fats can be used for frying. Fat from 
mutton rendered with milk or beef may be mixed with lard, " com- 
jjound," or vegetable oil. 

B. Fat may be clarified with slices of potatoes or potato and apple 
as it heats. Small quantities of fat may be clarified by pouring 
boiling water on cold fat, stirring well, and setting aside till a cake 
of fat forms on top, and then scraping the sediment from the bottom 
of cake. If this fat is to be kept for several days it should be 
reheated to drive off the water. 

C. Fat should be kept covered while it is heating and cooling 
unless much moisture must be driven off. The cover keeps in odor 
and saves fuel in the heating. 

D. The temperature of fat for frying may be tested by dropping 
in a cube of bread and noting the time it takes it to brown. The 
temperature for a cooked mixture should be sufficient to cook a cube 
of stale bread golden brown in 40 seconds; for uncooked mixtures, 
in 60 seconds. 

E. The temperature of fat is lowered by putting in the food to be 
fried. For this reason it may be necessary to reheat the fat a little 
each time before putting in more food. 

F. The excess of fat may be removed from the cooked food by 
draining the material on any clean absorbent paper. 



94 USE AND PKEPAKATIOlSr OF FOOD. 

G. Surplus fat from surface of food may be removed by rapidly 
plunging food for an instant beneath surface of boiling water in a 
small kettle set close to the fat kettle. The heat retained in the food 
quickly dries the surface and leaves the crust as crisp as before the 
dip, and an amazing amount of fat is thus reclaimed. As soon as 
a considerable layer of fat forms on the surface of the water it should 
be skimmed off and set aside to cool. The layer of hardened fat 
can be recovered. This is a worth-while economy fi'om the point of 
view of both money and fat conservation. It also makes the food so 
treated more digestible. 

H. The fat should be strained after using to remove burned par- 
ticles. Double cheesecloth or a coarse muslin is best for this pur- 
pose. 

6. Points in cooking croquettes : 

A. If croquettes and similar mixtures are mixed fairly stiff, 
brushed with melted fat, and rolled in crumbs, they may be browned 
in a hot oven and will have much the crispness and flavor of the fried 
food. Since they can be successfully reheated it is possible to take 
advantage of the baking or roasting oven to bake a supply of cro- 
quettes for some following meal. 

B. Croquette mixture may be sauteed in shallow fat, but the pieces 
will soak up a larger amount of fat than when cooked in deep fat. 

C. For deep-fat frying, roll croquettes successively in sifted bread 
crumbs, egg, and crumbs. The secret of success is to make an un- 
broken layer over the w^hole surface. The hot fat cooks the egg 
and makes a stiff crust that prevents the heated contents from break- 
ing out, and also prevents the absorption of fat. An imperfect 
layer causes the croquette to break open and absorb fat. 

7. Sauteing: 

A. Sauteing, often incorrectly calling " frying," is cooking in a 
small quantity of fat. It is a slower method than *•' deep frying," 
less healthful because the food can not be kept from absorbing grease, 
and more wasteful, on account of the fat taken up in this way. But, 
as it is sometimes convenient to saute potatoes, liver, small dry fish, 
and a few other kinds of food, it is important to know how to do it 
in the best way. 

(1) Directions for sauteing: Have the fat hot enough to hiss 
when the food is put in. Cook the food first on the one side, then 
on the other. Use very little fat, adding from time to time just 
enough to keep the food from burning. 

The very worst way of cooking food is to put it into a cold 
or half-warm pan with grease enough to half cover it, and to 
let it sizzle and soak until it is wanted. Such food is unfit to eat. 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 95 

METHOD OF DEVELOPING LABORATORY AVORK. 

The class may prepare fish balls and some form of croquettes. 
Half the croquettes should be browned in the oven and the remainder 
fried in deep fat, and the relative amount of fat used by each method 
calculated. The flavor produced by each method should be noted. 

To economize fat, use one large kettle for deep-fat frying. The 
fat used may be a mixture of those left from the preceding lessons 
with the exception of clear mutton fat. If additional fat is needed, 
the kettle may be filled up with cottonseed oil. Measure the fat be- 
fore beginning frying and after the cooking is finished to see how 
much is used, and have the women calculate the cost. If desired, the 
fat remaining from the frying may be used as the basis of a demon- 
stration of soap making. An additional lesson on this subject might 
be inserted at this point. 

CODFISH BALLS. 

Salt codfish, i pound. 1 egg. 

Potatoes, in inch- thick pieces, 2 heap- Butter, ^ tablespoon, 
ing cups. 

Boil and mash the potatoes. While they are cooking, cover the codfish with 
boiling water, and when this is cool enough to allow your hands in it, pick the 
fish into shreds. Drain off the water, mix fish, potatoes, butter, and egg 
together, and beat the mixture well. Fry it by heaping tablespoonfuls in deep 
fat, or shape it into balls or cylinders and fry in deep fat. Shredded codfish 
may be prepared according to instructions on the boxes. 

BAVOBY BICE CBOQLTETTES. 

Boiled rice, 2 cups. Pepper, i teaspoon. 

1 egg, beaten. Cayenne or paprika, few grains. 

Butter, 2 tablespoons. Minced parsley, 2 or 3 tablespoons. 
Salt, i teaspoon. 

Mix the ingredients and shape into croquettes. Roll in crumbs, egg, and 
crumbs ; shape and fry in deep fat hot enough to brown a cube of stale bread 
in 40 seconds. 

These croquettes may be varied by adding a few drops of lemon juice or by 
stirring in one-fourth to one-half cup of grated cheese. 



Lesson 5. Salads and Salad Dressings. 

AIM. 

To review the fundamental points in successful salad making, sug- 
gest ways of economizing oil, and to illustrate ways of varying tho 
standard salad dressings. 



96 USE AND PEEPARATION OF FOOD. 

POINTS TO BE BROUGHT OUT. 

1. Salads are justly popular from several viewpoints: 

A. From the viewpoint of the dietitian because they contain green 
leaf plants (furnishing minerals and bulk and essential substances) 
and usually oil (a laxative). 

B. From the viewpoint of the cook because they provide a con- 
venient and attractive way of using left overs. 

C. From the viewpoint of the menu maker because they con- 
tribute more than any other single dish to the contrast in color, flavor, 
and texture necessary in the satisfying meal. 

2. Use salads discriminately. Either plan the salad to fit the meal 
or build the meal around the salad; doin^t try to toss a salad into a 
meal regardless of whether the two suit each other. 

A. For a hearty meal, choose a light salad, e. g., salad greens and 
French dressing, or salad greens, an acid fruit, and French dressing. 

B. For a light meal, choose a hearty salad with a cooked or mayon- 
naise dressing. Salads of vegetables, eggs, fish, cheese, or meat, or a 
combination of these may often serve as the main dish of a light 
meal ; such a salad should never be used as a side dish. A sweet salad 
with a rich dressing served with crackers will serve as combination 
salad and dessert course, but would be out of place accompanying the 
meat course. 

3. Classes of foods suitable for salads : 

A. Classes of foods suitable for salads are — 

(1) Green salad plants (cultivated and wild). 

(2) Eruits, fresh, dried, and canned. 

(3) Vegetables. 

(4) Cheese. 

(5) Meats. 

(6) Eggs. 

(7) Fish. 

(8) Nuts. 

B. A salad should always contain something succulent to crunch 
between the teeth. This succulence is perhaps its chief charm. Let- 
tuce, celery, cabbage, cubed cucumbers, apples, nasturtium stems 
and seeds, pickles, nuts, water cress, and the like may be utilized 
in season to supply succulence. 

C. Salad greens should be served crisp. They may be sprinkled, 
done up in a paper bag or a covered pail, and laid on the ice or in 
a cool place till ready for use, or they may first be washed and 
wrapped in a cloth or in a clean paper bag. The latter is preferable, 
because they are ready for immediate use. 



USE AXD PREPARATION OF FOOD. 97 

5. T3'pes of salad dressings, — Salad dressings may be of several 
general types, some very simple : 

A. Vinegar or lemon juice with water and sugar. 

B. Sweet or sour cream dressings. 

C. Oil and salt. 

D. Oil dressings without egg; French dressing with its many 
variations. 

H. Oil dressing with eggs; nuiyonnaise dressing with its many 
variations. 

F. Cooked dressing on the order of an acid custard, thickened 
partly Avith egg and partly with flour. 

G. Bacon- fat dressing. 

6. Salad oils: 

A. Olive oil is still generally preferred by some people, though 
many prefer the more bland flavor of the other salad oils. The 
recent scarcity and high price of olive oil have caused manj^ people 
to substitute other less expensive edible oils, such as cottonseed oil 
and corn oil. Peanut oil is equally palatable but somewhat more 
difficult to obtain. If the flavor of olive oil is preferred, a small 
amount of olive oil may be combined with corn, cottonseed, or peanut 
oil. The desired flavor is obtained, but the cost will be reduced. 

Note. — See if the class can tell prices and contents of containers of the va- 
rious salad oils on the market, and estimate the cost per pint or per quart. If 
This can not be done pomptly, assign it as an individual or committee problem 
for the next lesson. 

B. Salad and cooking oils should be kept in a cool, dark place to 
prevent their turning rancid. The colder they are the thicker they 
will be and the thicker dressing the}^ will make. 

C. "When there is a need for economizing in the use of fat, it is 
desirable not to lessen the amount of salad used, but — 

(1) To make the oil go as far as possible where it is used. 

(2) To use a larger amount of cooked dressings. 

7. Vinegar or other acid draws out the Avater and Avilts the tender 
tissues of salad greens, hence leaf salads should not be dressed until 
just before serving. Meats and cooked vegetables, however, are 
greatly improved by being tossed around in a French dressing (2 
or 3 parts of oil to 1 of vinegar) and allowed to stand for a while to 
season. This process is called " marinating," and is a real economy 
because less dressing is needed to give the desired flavor. Mayon- 
naise dressing should not be added until shortly before serving, as it 
tends to separate after being mixed with the salad. 

8. Make up dressings in quantity to conserve time. A pint or 
quart is as quickly made as a much smaller amount and may be 
kept in a cool place for several weeks. 

128209°— 19 7 



9S USE AND PREPARATIOlSr OF FOOD. 

METHOD OF DEVELOPING LABORATORY WORK. 

As the salad lesson is a great favorite, it will be worth while to plan 
some novel yet thoroughly practical features and to enlist the as- 
sistance of the class in carrying them out. 

1. A committee might be appointed to secure and exhibit a sample 
of every available salad green in season, such as broad and narrow 
leaved chicory, French endive, celery, the various varities of lettuce, 
white and purple cabbage, Chinese celery, cabbage, water cress, 
winter cress, blanched dandelion crowns, and other wild greens. 

2. The instructor ma}' demonstrate to advantage the making of 
French dressing in quantity, using a bottle with a glass stopper or a 
glass preserve jar. (Note. — It is desirable to use some olive oil in 
French dressing if it is not possible to afford olive oil entirely, 
because the flavor of the oil is more noticeable in French dressing 
than in mayonnaise.) To show the time saved by mixing in quantity 
have a member of the class at the same time mix up a small quantity 
of French dressing, using three tablespoonfuls of oil in a deep 
saucer. After this small portion is mixed show the eifect of adding 
a small piece of ice and a teaspoonful of ice water. These are 
generally added to the other ingredients before mixing. The oil 
thickens as it chills, and the water helps to make a fine emulsion.) 
If the class is interested in French dressings it may be well to have 
different members of the class modify portions of the dressing 
already made according to the recipes below, while one member 
might make the French dressing suitable for use with fruit salad,,,, 
by using orange or grapefruit juice in place of vinegar. If the class 
is more interested in cooked dressings, it will be well to concentrate 
on them and omit the French dressiug. 

3. The making of quick mayonnaise dressing (see p. 100) may be 
demonstrated by the instructor to save time and material. A deep 
bowl and a suiall e^rn^ whip or a turbine egg beater are the most con- 
venient utensils. Take out a third of the finished dressing and add 
to it somewhat less than half its volume of hot cornstarch paste 
(see rule below) : to a second part add a third of an Qgg white, 
beaten till stiff and dr}-; leave the reuiaining third of the dressing 
plain for purposes of comparison. Explain that where cream is 
cheap, whipped sweet or sour cream may be stirred in just before 
serving. Afterwards members of the class may modify the dressing 
in various ways as indicated below. One member of the class might 
make a potato ma^^onnaise, for purposes of comparison. 

4. Cooked dressing may be made individually or two or three . 
members may be asked to bring samples of favorite cooked dressings 
in glass jars, with the recipes plainly written. 



USE AND rREPARATION OF FOOD. 99 

5. The salads demonstrated might include: 

A. A hearty salad of meat or fish, marinated and served with 
mayonnaise dressing. " Mock chicken " salad, made of celery and 
veal or lean pork (loin is especially good) ; or salmon or tuna fish 
mixed with an equal volume of cold boiled rice (cooked dry), witli 
celery or cubed cucumbers. 

B. One or two kinds of salad greens dressed with some modifica- 
tion of French dressing. 

C. A fruit salad with French or boiled dressing. It is desirable to 
have the material for these salads prepared by a committee of three 
or four women, either at their own homes or before the class assembles 
so that the salads are all ready to be put together. 

D. Salads from left-over vegetables. 

FKKXCII DEKSSING IX QUANTITY. 

Olive oil. 1 oup. JIiist.Mrd, 1 teaspoon, if ilesireil. 

A'inegar, i to i cup. Taprika, 1 teaspoon, if desired. 

Salt, li teaspoon. Powdered sugar, * teaspoon, if desired 
Dash cayenne pepper. 

Place a small funnel in the neck of a good-sized glass bottle, preferably one 
with a ground-glass stopper. Add first the dry ingredients, next the vinegar, 
and finally the oil. Remove tlie funnel, cork the bottle, and shake vigorously 
until the dressing is well thickened. Pour off what is wanted, recork the bottle, 
and set away in a cold place. Shake well each time before using. A glass pre- 
serve jar may be used. 

VARIATTOXS. 

1. For fruit salads omit musuird, use .sugar, and substitute lemon, orange, or 
grapefruit juice for vinegar. 

2. Vinaigrette dressing (for green salads). — To i cup French dressing add 
1 teaspoonful each finely chopped parsley and capers and 1 teaspoonful of 
grated onion, additional salt, and pepi»er or tobasco sauce. The yolk of a 
hard-cooked egg may be added, in which case use 2 tablespoonfids less oil, and 
1 tablespoouful more vinegar. 

3. Roquefort dressing. — To I cup of French dressing add 1 teaspoonful finely 
crumbled Roquefort cheese, and season more highly with salt and vinegar, if 
desired. 

SOUR CREAM DKKSSIXG. 

Thick sour cream (not old enough to be bitter), 1 cup. 

Vinegar, 3 tablespoons, or juice i lemon, and 2 teaspoons vinegar. 

Sugar, 1 teaspoon. 

Dash of cayenne pepper, or i teaspoon pain-ika. 

Salt, 1 teasi)oon. 

• 

SWEET CKEAil UKESSIXG. 

Heavy cream, i cup. Cayenne pepper, or J teaspoon pap- 

Vinegar, 3 tablespoons. rika. 

Salt, i teaspoon. 

Beat cream with Dover beater until stiff; add seasonings. Adil vinegar 
slowly, continuing to beat. 



100 USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 

Qt'ICK MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

Oil, 1 cup. Powdered sugar, § teaspoon, If de- 
Yolk of 1 egg. sired. 
Vinegar, 2 tablespoons, or lemon juice. INIustard, § teaspoon. 
Few grains cayenne. Salt, g teaspoon. 

If onion flavor is desired, rub the bowl with a freshly cut onion or a clove 
of garlic. Put in the seasonings, mix well, mix them with the entix'e amount 
of acid, then add the yolk, and beat well. Now add the oil, at first by table- 
spoonfuls, beating after each addition. Presently the oil may be added in 
larger quantities. When all has been used, add any further necessary season- 
ings and beat thoroughly. Cover the bowl with an earthen dish and keep 
in a cool place until it is needed. 

By adding the acid before the oil the egg is partially curdled or thickened, 
and the oil may be added more rapidly than l)y the other method, 

CORNSTAKCH-PASTE BINDING FOR MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

Mayonnaise may be prevented from separating, and the quanty may be in- 
creased without materially altering the flavor by stirring into it after it is 
mixed about J of its bulk of hot corhiistarch paste, made in the following pro- 
portions : 

2 tablespoons cornstarch. i cup vinegai'. 

'i cup boiling water. 

Mix the two tablespoons cornstarch smoothly with the I cup vinegar in an 
enamel saucepan ; add J cup boiling water, and simmer gently five minutes. 
Cool very sliglitly and beat the desired quantity into the mayonnaise, which 
will become thicker and ligh^r in color. Chill the mass before using. 

This starch paste binding is particularly desirable to use when cotton-seed, 
corn, or peanut oil is being used in place of olive oil. 

VARIATIONS OF MAY'ONNAISE DRESSINGS. 

1. Softened butter or thick, slightly soured cream may be used in place of 
part of the oil. 

2. Mayonnaise piquante, for meat, fish, or shellfish salads. — To 1 cupful of 
mayonnaise add 2 tablespoonfuls eacli olives and pickles finely chopped. 

3. IMayonnaise tartare or sauce tartare: For fish and shellfish salads, and for 
fried fish, scallops, and soft-shell crabs. Same as mayonnaise piquante, plus 
onion juice or finely chopiied Spanish onion. 

POTATO MAYONNAISE. 

The inside of a small baked potato may be used in place of egg yolk. Re- 
move and mash it and add— 

Mustard, 1 teaspoon. Vinegar, 1 tablespoon. 

Salt, 1 teaspoon. Powdered sugar, 1 teaspoon, if de- 

Dash of cayenne pepper. sired. 

Force the mixture through a fine sieve. Add 1 tablespoonful vinegar and 
s cup oil by tablespoonfuls, as in standard mayonnaise. 



USE AND PREPAEATIOX OF FOOD. 101 

COOKED DRESSING I, 

Milk, 11 cups. Melted butter, 3 tablespoons. 

2 eggs, slightly beaten. Flour, 1^ tablespoons. 

Sugar, 4 tablespoons. Salt, 2 teaspoons. 

Mustard, 2^ teaspoons. Cayenne pepper. 

Vinegar, i cup. 

Mix the ingredients and blend with iheni I cupful of milk. Heat the re- 
n)ainder of the milk to boiling, add the butter, thicken with the first mixture, 
and boil for two minutes. Cool slightly, add the vinegar gradually, and pour 
this hot liquid cautiously over the slightly beaten egg, stirring constantly. 
Cook the whole over hot water until it thickens. Cool immediately in order 
to prevent curdling and pour into a scalded glass jar. This rule makes more 
than a pint of rather mild dressing, which will keep for a long time in a cold 
place. No whipped cream need be added to this dressing. 

COOKED DRESSING II. 

Yolks, 3 eggs. Paprika, i teaspoon. 

Sugar, i cup. Salt, i teaspoon. 

Mustard, 1 teaspoon. Vinegar, 1 cup. 

Whiiiped cream. 

Beat eggs slightly and add to them the other ingredients in the order given. 
Cook the mixture in a double boiler, stirring it constantly until it is smooth 
and thick. This dressing will keep a long time in a cold place. When ready 
to use, mix with equal parts of whipped cream. 

A mild dressing suitable for fruit salad may be made by using 1 cup of 
juice from canned pineapple and the juice of 1 lemon in place of the vinegar. 
Omit the mustard. 

BACON DRESSING. 

For dandelion, cabbage, and other green salads. 

Use the fat left from cooking bacon. Warm the fat. and If there is much 
sediment, strain it through fine cheesecloth. Use 2 parts of fat to 1 part of 
vinegar, thicken slightly with flour and water well blended, and cook for a 
few minutes to remove the raw taste of the flour. This dressing is usually 
served hot. It is good salad dressing for camp where much bacon is gen- 
erally used. 

REFERENCES. 

United States Department of Agriculture : 

Department Bulletin 469. Fats and Their Economical Use in the Home. 
Department Bulletin 310. Digestibility of Some Animal Fats. 
Department Bulletin 505. Digestibility of Some Vegetable Fats. 
Department Bulletin 630. Studies on the Digestibility of Some Nut Oils. 
Yearbook Separate 691. Some American Vegetable Food Oils: Their 
Sources and Methods of Production. 



UNIT VI. 

Meat, Fish, Poultry, and Game. 

GENERAL INFORMATION. 

1. The problem of a sufficient meat supply in the United States 
is only partly the result of war conditions. For some \ears there has 
been a steady shrinkage in the number of cattle in this country and 
a steady rise in the price of meat, due to the decrease of large areas 
of grazing land and the increased cost of producing meat animals, 

2. War conditions affected the meat situation because of — 

A. The need for larger amounts of meat than were used in times 
of peace. The soldier uses a much larger amount of meat than tlj3 
civilian engaged in ordinary occupations. The English soldier is 
allowed a weekly ration of 7 pounds of meat and If pounds of bacon. 
The Italian soldier is allowed -t pounds. The American is given 
20 ounces of fresh beef or bacon, or 10 ounces of canned meat a day. 
This makes his yearly consumption nearly 400 pounds as compared 
with the 175 pounds consumed by the average civilian. This need 
will continue as long as it is necessary to keep the army of occupa- 
tion abroad. 

B. The limiting of imports because of reduced tonnage available 
for this trade. 

C. Lack of grain and fodder for feeding animals. — The great 
shortage of grain in Europe and the drain upon the supph' for food 
for human beings have caused the slaughter of large numbers of 
cattle. The cattle that remain are greatly reduced in weight and 
offer diminished resources. 

D. Seizure of cattle by Germany. — In Belgium more than three- 
fourths of the cattle are gone. One-fifth of the cattle of France are 
estimated to have been thus lost during the period of invasion. 

.3. America as a source of supply. — Australia, South America, and 
the United States are the three principal sources of a meat supply 
at the present time. Since the shipping distance from this country 
to Europe is much less than that from South America or Australia, 
we have come to be one of the chief sources of meat supplies for 
European nations. This has been accomplished through : 

A. Increased production. 

B. Increased slaughter and shipment of meat. In October, 1918, 
130,000,000 pounds of pork were shipped as compared to 52,000,000 
pounds in October, 1917. Beef shipments have increased in pro- 

102 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 103 

portions. One month of 1918 showed the exports of beef und pork 
together to be 83 per cent greater than in the same month of 1914. 

C. Conservation in the consumption. — Since it takes a compara- 
tively long time for animals lo grow to maturity, it has been im- 
possible to increase our production to meet the demands. Only 
through the voluntary conservation of the individual himself has 
it been possible to increase the imports without depleting our own 
herds to a dangerous degree. 

4. Shortage of meat does not end with the war. — It will take years 
for the nations of Europe to replace their herds and restock their 
farms. The shortage of meat is a condition that must be faced for 
many months. If America is to do her share in supplying food to the 
world, and in helping to restock the herds that have been depleted, 
conservation of meat and meat products and more extensive use of 
meat substitutes and meat savers should become a national habit in 
America. 

5. Meat substitutes and meat savers. — Because of occasional tem- 
porary variations in the meat supply and from the standpoint of 
economy there will always be need for the housekeeper to know how 
to conserve in the use of all meats. 



Lesson 1. The Selection of Meat. 

AIM. 

To teach the proper use of meat in the diet and the rules governing 

its selection. 

points to be brought out. 

1. Average composition of edible portions of meat: 

A. Protein^ 12 to 20 per cent. 

B. Fat, 10 to 49 per cent. 

C. Water^ 40 to 70 per cent, in re\erse proportion to the fat. 

D. Mineral^ 0.5 to 1.5 per cent. 

2. Place in the diet : 

A. As a tissue-building food.— In this respect meat seems to have 
no advantage over any other protein-rich food, with the possible 
exception of the legumes. 

B. Source of energy in the diet. — Meat is an uneconomical food 
from this standpoint, since it represents such a small proportion of 
the food which the animal has eaten. Considerably less than 10 per 
cent of the energy of the grain eaten is turned into meat or fat. 

C. Furnishes flavor in the diet. — On this account there is a ten- 
dency to use more than is desirable. Protein is not burned com- 
pletely in the body, but leaves a residue which is eliminated by the 



104 USE AND PREPARATION OF POOD. 

kidnej's. Too much protein-rich food in tlie diet throws extra work 
on tlie kidneys. 

3. Price of meat is determined by : 

A. Tenderness. — Because the tender cuts can be cooked without 
losing the flavor, they are the most expensive. 

B. A marbling of fat in the lean helps in the retention of flavor 
in cooking but increases the cost of the meat out of proportion to 
the increase in food value. 

C. The local demand for a cut may operate to influence its cost. 
This tends to make the cost of cuts more nearly the same in spite of 
differences in the characteristics noted above. For example, in a 
town in which the demand is chiefly for round steaks and there is 
little demand for the more expensive cuts, round and the sirloin 
portion of the loin are frequently quoted at the same price, in spito 
of the fact that the sirloin is more tender and has a better distribu- 
tion of fat. 

4. In buying meat the housewife should keep in mind: 

A. The form of meat most available in her community. This may 
vary with national and local conditions. 

B. The characteristics and appearance, also location of the dif- 
ferent cuts. (See Tables I, II, III.) 

C. The proportion of edible meat in the different cuts. (See 
Table IV.) 

D. The way in which the meat is to be cooked. — It is very foolish 
to buy an expensive cut of meat and cook it by a method that is 
adapted to a cheaper cut. 

E. Is the meat killed locally or is it a packing house product? In 
the case of local meat, be sure it has been inspected. The Govern- 
ment inspection of meat has onl}' to do with such meat as enters 
interstate connnerce. The inspection of meat killed by firms selling 
only locally must be enforced by local laws. 

F. The tenderness of the meat is increased by hanging for sev- 
eral days at a temperature just above freezing. Where the meat is 
killed locally and refrigeration facilities are not available, there is a 
tendency to use the meat too soon after killing, and as a result it is 
tough. The housewives should insist upon having the meat held 
sufficiently long to become tender before being sold. 

INIETHOD OF DEVELOPING LABORATORY WORK. 

If possible, have a demonstration of the different cuts of meat 
given by a local butcher, calling attention to the characteristics which 
will enable the women to distinguish the cuts in buying. Have cuts 
from the different animals shown, but lay the most stress on the cuts 
that are used by the group of women i:>rosent. Have Avomen work out 



USE AND PKEPARATION OF FOOD. 



105 



froiri tlie data given in the table the cost per pound of the edible meat 
in the different cuts. 

Table I. — Shoicing location, characteristics, and uses of the cuts of beef and 

veaV 



Cut. 



Location. 



Characteristics. 



Uses. 



Steak 

Round 

Rump 

Loin — porterhouse 
sirloin. 

Flank..... 

Rib 

Plate, navel end.., 

Brisket end 

Shin 

Chuck 

Neck 



Hind leg to knee joint 

Hind leg from knee lo hip 
joint. 

Around the pelvic bone 

From hip joint and pelvic 
bone to and including 
last rib; division de- 
pends upon market de- 
mand. 

Lower end of loin 

From sixth to twelfth rib 
inclusive, counting from 
head. 

Lower end of rib cu t 

Lower end of chuck 

Front leg to knee 

First five ribs from head of 

animal. 
Neck tr imm ings ,.. 



Tough; large percentage of 
bone. 

Muscles vary in tough- 
ness; average, medium 
tough; low in per cent of 
bone. 

Medium tough; high in 
bone. 

Most tender — upper end 
(porterhouse) more ten- 
der than the lower end 
(sirloinj. 

Tough , 

Tender , 

Medium tough; contains 

rib bones. 
More tough 

Tough, large percentage 

of bone. 
Medium tough, depending 

upon part. 
Tough 



Soups. 

Pot roast, Swiss steak, 
Hamburger, or steak 
with long, slow cookin?; 
stews, beef juice. 

Roasts or pot roasts, de- 
pending upon toughness 
of animal. 

The best steaks. 



Stews and pot roasts. 
Roasts. 



Stews. 

Corned beef, pot roasts, 

stews. 
Soups. 

Roasts, pot roasts, stews, 

steaks. 
Stews, mincemeat. 



^ This and the following tables have been compiled by Louise Stanley from data 
obtained from the Department of Agricultural Chemistry, University of Missouri. 

Table II. — Shoicing characteristics and uses of cuts of pork. 



Cut. 


Characteristics. 


Uses. 








Bacon. 


^'e^y fat witli only streaks of lean; the 

spare rib and leaf fat are removed from 

underneath. 
Contains bones of back and may have 

some of rib bones; tender. 
Fairly tender; medium fat; more bone 

than in ham. 


chops, steaks, or roasts. 
Cured, spareribs are used as pot roasts, 


Loin back 


leaf fat is made into lard. 
Chops and roasts. 


Shoulder 


Cured or used fresh for roasts and chops. 


Jowls 






as Dixie squares. 









T.\BLE III. — Shoicinf,' characteristics and uses of cuts of mutton and lamb. 



Cut. 


Characteristics. 


Uses. 




Tender ; * 


Roasts or steaks. 




do 


Do. 




do 


Chops or crown roast. 




More tough and larger amount of bone . . 
More tough and fat 


If shoulder bone is left in, roast slowly; 


Plate 


if bone is removed, pot roast. 
Stew. 






If large enough, pot roast; otherwise, 


Neck 


Tough ; 


stew. 
Stews. 









106 USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 

Table IV. — S7ioirinff cost of edible lean in different cuts of beef. 



Cut. 


Price per 
pound. 


Lean meat. 


Fat. 


Bone. 


Cost of 

edible 

lean meat. 


Hind quartpr 




Per cent. 
61.41 
37.75 
21.75 
32.82 
74.33 
51.91 
62.26 
48.05 
63. 29 
64.94 
71.77 
62.41 
49.41 
57.09 


Per cent. 
22.80 
4.90 
6.59 
6.68 
14.17 
22.59 
23.91 
59.04 
17.01 
12.97 
10.68 
9.94 
9.22 
24.60 


Per cent. 
15. 43 
54.41 
71.66 
60.16 
10.82 
25.46 
13.34 
.92 
25.46 
25.53 
17.47 
28.25 
41.05 
18.07 




Tail 




Head 1 




Shank 1 




Hound .1 




Rump i 




Loin 1 




Flank 






Fore quarter 






Rib 






Chuck 






Neck 







Shin 






Plat e 













Two blank columns as indicated above are to l>e filled in by the teacher. 
Example. — If rib is 30 cents a pound and only 64.94 per cent of it is lean the actual 
cost of the edible lean meat is q ^j,^ x 100=4C cents i>er pound. 



Lesson 2. Roasts and Steaks. 



AIM. 

To give the housewife a knowledge of the food vahic and structure 
of the meat and the points involved in cooking tender cuts. 

points to be brought out. 

1. Composition and cost : 

A. Meat must be selected with care and used wisely and com- 
pletely. 

B. Meat contains protein, fat, mineral matter, one of the undeter- 
mined '' dietary essentials," and flavoring substances. The con- 
stituents may be obtained equally well from other sources, but people 
are willing to pay the price demanded for meat on account of its 
flavor. 

C. The flavor of meat may be developed by cooking. The flavor 
is due to extractives which are soluble and are removed when the 
meat is cooked in water; hence it is best developed by a method of 
cooking in dry heat, without water or steam. The crust formed by 
dry heat also presents the escape of the flavor and juices. Only 
tender cuts of meat can be cooked in this way, as dry heat increases 
the toughness of tough cuts. Since they may be cooked so as to retain 
the flavor, the tender cuts arc more expensive. Their food value is 
no higher than that of the tougher cuts and may sometimes be lower. 

2. Structure. — Meat is made up of muscle fibers which contain 
muscle juices and which are held together by connective tissue. 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 



107 



Iloavy cell walls and large amounts of connective tissue make meat 
tough. The fat of meat is largely found in the connective tissues. 
Beef fat is mainly in distinct layere, while in pork the fat is in 
minute layers surrounding the individual muscle cells. 

3. Methods of cooking meat. — ]\lethods of cooking meat may bo 
grouped under three heads : 

A. Methods for cooking tender cuts, adding no water; Broiling, 
roasting, fr3'ing, and sauteing. 

Aim. — To retain and develop flavor and change the color. 
Essential points. — The use of dry heat and no water. 

B. Methods for cooking tough cuts without much bone : Pot roast- 
ing, stewing, cooking as Swiss steak, etc. 

Aim.— To develop and retain as much flavor as possible but at the 
same time to cook for tenderness. 

Essential points. — Use liquid and long, slow cooking to make ten- 
der. Develop and retain flavor by browning first and starting in hot 
water; use well-seasoned gravy. Further flavor may be developed 
by browning 4t the last. 

C. Methods for cooking tough cuts with much bone: Soups and 
broths. 

Aim. — To extract all the flavor. 

Essential points. — Divide finely. Start in cold water; use long, 
slow cooking, 

4. Principles involved in cooking tender cuts: 

A. Expose the meat at first to intense heat to sear the outside and 
keep in the flavor and juices. 

B. Eeduce the heat so as to cook through to the color desired. 

C. Determine when done by — 

(1) Time of cooking. — This is not a certain method since it 
varies Avith the size, shape, and structure of the piece. 

(2) Use of thermometer. — The temperature is a measure of 
the color change of the juices. 



Temperature. 



60° C. (140° F.) 
70° C. (158° F.) 
80° C. (176° F.) 



Condition. 



Rare , 

Meiium. . . 
Well done. 



Color. 



Pink. 

Gray -pink. 
Gray-brown. 



D. Baste only with fat. since water dissolves the outside coat and 
will release juice and flavor. Do not cover since the steam con- 
denses on the lid and drips back as water, thus dissolving the outside 
coat of the meat. If meat is placed in the pan with the fat side up 
the fat fries out slowly and bastes the meat. 



108 USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 

METHOD OF DEVELOPING LABORATORY WORK. 

The women should prepare beef juice according to the directions 
below to determine the characteri^^tics of the muscle juice and to show 
the structure, composition, and color changes of meat. Have roasts 
brought to class and prepared theie. They may then be taken home 
and served or may be sold. If possible, have cuts of different shapes 
and calculate the time required per pound for cooking. Note any 
differences and discuss reasons for such differences. If it seems ad- 
visable, steaks or chops may be broiled. 

All the meat bought should be used. Trimmings of meat and bone 
may be used for soup and any excess fat rendered. A certain pro- 
portion of fat is desirable in cooking meat, but this should not be 
wasted. The fat left in the pan after cooking a roast should be 
saved and used for preparing gravies and seasoning vegetables or 
soups. It has the meat flavor so desirable for this purpose. Take 
all necessary precautions to prevent the fat from burning in the 
pan, and be sure all the fat and flavoring material are saved. This 
precaution should be taken at the end of each lesson in this unit. 
For methods of using this fat see Unit V. 

]MAKIXG BEEF JUICE. 

Round steak is preferred for making beef juice, since it contains 
so little tissue fat. Scrape it with the dull edge of a knife so as to 
separate the muscle fibers from the connective tissue as completely 
as possible. Make the muscle fiber into a small cake and broil slightly 
on either side to start the juices. Press out the juice, using a potato 
ricer. Examine the juice carefully; heat a small portion in a test 
tube and note the coagulation. The portion coagulating is the pro- 
tein of the muscle juice. "When it is removed there remains only the 
soluble mineral constituents, food accessory substance, and flavoring 
constituents of the meat. 

Discuss the usual method of preparing beef juice by placing 
chopped meat in a jar and heating in a water bath. A juice of lower 
food value is obtained in this way, since some of the soluble protein 
is likely to be coagulated and removed when the juice is strained. 
Since beef juice is given to invalids who need nourishing food, it is 
important that it should be prepared so as to retain as much food 
value as possible. Calculate the cost of the beef juice and discuss 
other foods which might be used instead. 

Examine the connective tissue and the muscle fibers from which 
the juice has been extracted. Both of these are largely protein and 
water. They contain a mixture of proteins. Most of the protein of 
the fiber hardens or coagulates on heating, but the connective tissue 



USE AND PREPARATION OF EOOD. 109 

protein is changed by the moist lieat to gelatin. This is the reason 
why tongh meat tends to fall apart in fibers Avhen cooked in water 
while the protein in this fiber is hardened by the heat. 



Lessox 3. Pot Roasts and Stews; Less Used Portions. 



AIM. 

To teach the best method of preparing tough cuts of meat; also 
the use of the offal portions and some ways of preparing them 
palatably. 

POINTS TO be brought OUT. 

1. Methods of cooking tough cuts : 

A. Tough cuts of meat having the same proportion of edible meat 
are as high in food value as the more expensive tender cuts. 

B. More care is necessary in preparation in order to retain and 
develop as much flavor as possible while cooking for tenderness. 

C. In preparation they may be nuide more tender by — 

(1) Long, slow cooking at low temperature. (Fireless cooker 
is good for this purpose.) 

(2) Cooking in moist heat. 

D. Flavor may be developed and retained by — 

(1) Browning before cooking so as to coagulate the outside 
and help retain the juices. 

E. Flavor may be increased by — 

(1) Browning after cooking to tenderness. 

(2) Use of Avell-flavored sauces. 

(3) Added seasoning. 

2. Use of so-called offal portions. — The offal portions most com- 
monly used as food are : 

A. Nervous tissue — brain. 

B. Glandular tissues — 

(1) Liver. 

(2) Thymus — sweetbread. 

(3) Pancreas (sometimes called the stomach sweetbread). 

(4) Kidney. 

C. Muscular tissue — 

(1) Heart. 

(2) Feet. 

(3) Tongue. 



110 



USE AND PEEPAKATION OF FOOD. 



These should be used by the housewife, because — 

(a) They accumuhite as by-products in the packing industry. 

(b) They can not be shipped well, so should be used locally 
to release other foods for shipping. . 

(c) They furnish just as good food as the usual cuts of meat. 
The glandular tissues yield a large proportion of uric acid; 
therefore should be a\'oided by people suffering from difficulties 
which result from an accuniuhition of uric acid. 

(d) They are frequently cheaper than other cuts of meat. 
The price depends npon the local doniand. 

3. Comparative food value: 



Description. 


Water. 


Protein. 


Fat. 


Ash. 


Calories per 
pooiul. 




Per cent. 
78. 2 
72.2 
70.9 
78.8 
68.2 


Per cent. 
10.2 
19.4 
16.8 
15.8 
16.3 


Per cent. 
9.8 
4.1 
12.1 
4.0 
4.8 


Per cent. 
1.3 
1.0 
1.6 
1.2 
.9 


586 




531 




801) 




455 




900 







4. Method of cooking depends upon compactness and toughness 
of the tissues in question. 

A. Tender portions: 

(1) Brains. 

(2) Sweetbread. 

(3) Liver from young animal. 

These are cooked just enough to develop flavor. The usual 
method is to parboil so as to make firm and prevent spoiling. 
They can then be sliced and broiled or creamed. 

B. Tough portions: 

(1) Liver from the older animals can be prepared very pala- 
tably by parboiling, then treating as other liver. 

(2) Heart should be prepared by long slow cooking in moist 
heat. Parboil and bake, pot roast, or stew. 

(3) Pigs' feet are made up largely of muscle and bone. The 
bony portions are chiefly joints, the cartilage of which can \m 
gelatinized by long slow cooking. Cook until tender and gela- 
tinized, then brown with or without batter to develop flavor. 



METHOD OF DE\'ELOPIXG LABORATORY WORK. 

Demonstrate or have the women prepare some of the dishes listed 
below. These are all dishes that can be started and carried home for 
the use of the family, so it is suggested that materials be furnished 
the women at cost or that thev bring in the materials and carry the 
prepared dishes home.. The women should be asked to report upon 
at least two other dishes prepared at home. 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. Ill 

Some of the dishes should be prepared as a demonstration so that 
the women may sample the results. In assigning the lesson discuss 
with the women the best cuts for the different dishes, basing the dis- 
cussion on the table in Lesson 1. 

POT KOAST. 

Brown the roast in a little fat to sear and to develop flavor. Place in a 
pot or casserole with a closely fitting cover. Add 1 cup water and coolc until 
tender (two to three hours), adding more water if necessarj'. Tlie roast may 
be cooked either on top of the stove or in the oven. Vegetables, such as carrots, 
turnips, or onions, may be added at the beginning of the cooking; tomato juice 
may be used for the liquid added and potatoes may be added about 30 minutes 
before the roast is done. 

BKEAUEI) VEAL. 

Cut into pieces of a suitable size for serving. Roll in egg and crumbs and 
brown quickly in a small amount of fat. Add 2 cups of hot water or stock ; 
cover and simmer until the veal is tender (about 45 minutes). 

RKAIXS SCKAMBIED WITH EGG. 

Soak calves' brains 1 hour in cold water. liemove the membrane and par- 
boil 20 minutes in salted water to which a little vinegar or lemon juice has been 
added. Drain, separate into small pieces. To 4 eggs, lightly beaten, add 4 
tablespoons of milk or water, salt, pepper, and i cup of the brains, and scramble 
in a small amount of butter substitute. Serve with chopped parsley. 

CREAMED SWEETBREADS. 

i • . ■ 

Cook sweetbreads as directed above for calves' brains. Dice in i-iuch cubes 
and heat in a cream sauce made from 1 tablespoon butter substitute, li table- 
siX)ons flour, and 1 cup milk. Season with salt and pepper. 

MINCED KIDNEY. 

Trim kidneys, removing white fat from center. Cut in thin slices, dredge 
with flour, and brown in a small amount of fat, to which has been added a 
sliced onion. Other seasonings, such as green pepper and celery salt, may 
be added. When brown add 1 pint of water or stock. Simmer gently for 
five minutes. Add more flour if necessary to thicken the gravy. Serve on 
toast or with mashed potatoes. Kidneys should be cooked only a short time 
or they become toughened. 

FRIED LIVER. 

Veal liver is preferable because of its tenderness, but beef liver may be useil 
by first boiling until tender. After boiling cut in half-inch slices; remove the 
outside skin and veins; dredge with corn meal and fry in hot fat. 

i pigs' feet IN BATTER. 

Use fresh, well-cleaned pigs' feet, which have been split down the center. 
Bring to a boil in water enough to cover and cook four to five hours in the 



112 USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 

fireless cooker, with a welMieated stone, or simmer gently over a fire. AVlien 

they are thoroughly softened dip In a batter made from 1 cup flour, 1 cup 

of milk, 1 egg, 1 teaspoon leaking powder, and 1 teaspoon salt, and brown In 
hot fat. 

UEEF HEART. 

Cut in slices one-half inch thick, soak in salt water one hour, roll in corn 
meal, brown on both sides in liot fat. Add water, cover pan, and cook slowly 
until tender. Serve with brown gravy tliickened with flour. 



Lesson 4. Methods of Extending Meat Flavors. 

AIM. 

To teach methods of preparing meats, with the addition of dress- 
ings, cereal mixtures, and vegetables so as to extend the flavor and 
make the meat go further. 

POINTS to be brought OUT. 

1. People like the flavor of meat, so if this flavor can be extended 
through cheaper vegetable foods less meat and more of the other 
food is eaten. 

2. The cheaper cuts should be used Avhen the flavor is to be ex- 
tended, because it is uneconomical to use tender cuts when the flavor 
can not be retained in the meat itself. 

3. Suggested ways of extending flavor: 

A. Use of dressing to extend flavor, as in stuffed fowl or mock 
duck. This has two advantages — 

(1) Makes meat go further. 

(2) The moistness and flavor added to the dressing helps to 
flavor the meat and keep it moist in cooking. 

In making dressing fat shoidd be added, as well as liquid, 
so that the dressing will not become too pasty. 

B. Use of dumplings. — When added to meat stews they thicken 
the stew and take up the flavor of the meat. 

C. Cooking with added cereals, as in rice and chicken, or the serv- 
ice of rice with meat gravy as is customary in the South. 

D. Cooking meat with added vegetables, as in case of stews and 
braised vegetables. In this case the vegetables help season the meat 
as well as the meat the vegetables. 

IVIETIIOD or DEVELOPING LABORATORY WORK. 

Have dishes of each type prepared, if possible, for family service, 
and have the women take them home for use. Have other dishes 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 113 

tried at home and reported upon. Calculate the cost of one serving 
of one of these dishes compared with an equivalent serving of all 
meat. If there is time, the soup for next lesson should be started at 
this time. (See Lesson 5.) 

IIOCK DUCK. 

On a round steak, place a stuffing made as helow, and roll the steak up 
around tlie stufting, fastening with wooden toothpicks or tying with a stri 11.14. 
Brown the outside quickly to develop flavor. Add a cup of hot water, lueut 
stock, or tomato juice, and cover. Cook slowly until tender. 

STUFFING FOR MOCK DUCK. 

Corn-bread crumbs, 2 cups. Fat, i cup. 

Bread crumbs, 1 cup. Milk, or water, or stock to soften (| 

1 onion (minced). to 1 cup). 

Chopped parsley, 1 tablespoon. 

HOT POT OF Ml^TTON AND BARLEY. 

Mutton, 1 pound. 4 potatoes. 

Pearled barley, i cup. 3 onions. 

Celery tops or parsley. Salt, 1 tablespoon. 

Cut the mutton in small pieces and brown with the onion in fat cut from the 
meat. Pour this into a covered saucepan. Add 2 quarts of water and the bar- 
ley. Simmer for 1^ hours. Then add the potatoes, cut in quarters, and the 
seasonings, and cook one-half hour longer. 

SAVOKY STEW. 

Meat, 1 pound. Parsley or soup herbs. 
Pat from the meat, 2 tablespoons. Any two or more vegetables. The 
4 medium potatoes or one cup of bar- following are suggested : Onion, car- 
ley, rice, or hominy grits, or both po- rot, green peas, turnips, or cabbage, 
tato and cereal. Salt, 1 teaspoon. 

Cut the meat in small pieces and brown it in the fat. Add the cereal, the 
seasonings, and li quarts of water. Simmer until the cereal is nearly done ; 
then add the vegetables and continue cooking till they are tender, adding more 
water if needed. This stew may be made into a savory meat pie by omitting 
the potato .in it and instead lining a baking dish with mashed potato, pouring 
in the stew, covering it with maslied potato, and browning in the oven. 



Lesson 5. Soups and Broths; Left-Over Meats. 

AIM. 

To teach how to extract the flavor from meat in making soup : Tlio 
food value of meat soups and their place in the diet, and wa3^s of 
using the meat from w'hich the flavor has been extracted. 
128209°— 19 s 



114 USE AND PEEPABATION OF FOOD- 

POINTS TO BE BUOUGHT OUT. 

1. Food value and place in the diet. — Meat soups and beef broths 
contain only the soluble flarorino- constituents of the meat and gela- 
tin, which. is the one soluble protein present to any extent in nieat 
that is not coagulated on boiling. Since most of the protein is re- 
moved from meat soups on boiling and straining, they contain f)uly 
soluble mineral constituents and flavoring material and any float- 
ing fat, and are consequently not high in food value. Their value, 
in the diet is as a source of flavor and as a stimulant to digestion 
rather than as a means of nourishment. 

2. Choice of cut for making soups and broths. — In selecting iiu^at 
for soups the tough cuts, containing bone, lean, and connective tis- 
sue, with little fat, are used, since they are usually equally well 
flavored and at'e less costly. Cuts containing the joint portions of 
the bones, especially those from young animals, are desirable for 
soup making, since they yield a large amount of gelatin. • 

3. Method of cooking for soups and broths. — The aim in making 
soup is to extract as large a propcu'tion of the flavor and gelatin 
as possible. In order to do this — 

A. Sear a portion of the meat to develoj:) the flavor of the soup. 

B. Start cooking in cold water so that the outside will not be- 
come coagulated and the soluble < oustituents held in. 

4. After cooking, the meat should be set aside to cool so that the 
fat can be removed. It can usually be lifted off in a solid cake. If 
the fat does not solidify, a piece of ice in a cloth run over the top 
will aid in its removal. Fat left on the top of soup is not only 
wasteful but dietetically undesirable. 

5. Ways of clearing soups. — Soups may be partially cleared by 
straining. If complete clearness is desired, it is necessary to collect 
the fine, suspended particles of coagulated protein by adding to tlie 
cold soup a soluble protein which will coagulate in masses and en- 
tangle the finer particles, (The principle is the same as clearing 
coffee with an e<i:g.) Egg white is most frequently used for this 
purpose. The egg white contributes in no way to the food value of 
the soup, but is itself wasted. The food value of the soup is also 
decreased by the removal of the floating particles of protein. The 
demand for a clear soup is purely an aesthetic standard which 
should break down before the standards of conservation and 
economy. 

C. Divide the meat and bone as finely as possible so that the soluble 
constituents are more easily extracted. 

6. Uses of the left-over meat : 

A. The large part of the food value of the meat is left in the solid 
portion from which the flavor has been extracted. It is therefore 
important that this meat should be utilized. 



USE AND PREPABATION OF FOOD. 115 

B. In making the meat left over from soups and broths palatable, 
it is desirable that flavor be added. 

C. The following wa3s of using soup meats are suggested : 

( 1 ) Croquet tes — 

(a) Grind the meat and add a binder and seasoning; 
mold, dip in egg and crumbs, and fry or bake. 

(b) Binder ma}' be any thick, starchy mixture, such as 
cooked left-over cereal, potato, or thick white sauce (four 
tablespoons flour to one cup of milk). The resulting mix- 
ture should be thick enough to moid when cold but thin 
enough to be moist when hot. Tlie proportion should be 
1 part binder to 2 or 3 parts meat. 

(c) Season to taste. Salt, pepper, ground parsley, celery, 
lemon juice, and onion are suggested. Since much of the 
flavor of the meat has been extracted, generous seasoning is 
desirable. 

(d) Dip in egg (dilute each egg with two tablespoons of 
milk or water), because it cooks quickly over the outside and 
makes it possible for the croquette to retain its shape. Thi^ 
is especially necessary if the croquettes are to be fried 
since the coating of egg coagulates quickly and prevents the 
fat from soaking into the inside of the croquette. 

(e) Baking the croquette. — In order to save fat and time 
it is suggested that the croquettes be baked rather than fried. 
Form as usual, roll in egg and crumbs, and place in a hot 
oven to brown. 

(2) Escalloped. — Prepare as for croquettes but do not mold. 
Place in a baking dish, co\ er the top with buttered crumbs, and 
blown in the oven. 

(3) Baked hash. 

(4) Tamale. 

(5) Stuffed peppers. 

METHOD OF DEVELOPIXG LABORATORY WORK. 

The method of starting soup should be taken up during the pre- 
ceding lesson, if the lessons come with sufficient frequency, and the 
soup may be started and continued cooking between times so as to be 
ready. If this can not be done, have the soup prepared by one of 
the women who lives near by and brought to the class. Encourage 
all to repeat the pi'ocess at home. 

Demonstrate or have the women prepare the meat in one of the 
ways suggested. Have other ways tried at home and the results 
brought to the class for discussion. 



116 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 



BAKED HASH. 



To chopped, seasoned meat add. one-lhird the quantity of mashed or diced 
potatoes and a chopped onion. Add gravy stock or hot water until the mix- 
ture is soft enough to mold. Form into a loaf or place in a baking dish and 
bake until brown. 



Corn meal, 2 cups. 
Water, 6 cups. 
Fat, 1 tablespoon. 



1 onion. 

Tomatoes, 2 cups. 
Chopped meat, 1 pound. 
Salt and pepper. 

Make a mush of the corn meal, water, and 1^ teaspoons salt, and cook 45 
minutes. Brown the onion in the fat, add the meat, salt, pepper, and tomato. 
Grease a baking dish, put in a layer of cornmeal mush, add seasoned meat, 
cover with mush, and bake half an hour. 



STUFFED PEPPERS. 



Remove the tops and the seeds from green sweet peppers. Stuff with a cro- 
quette mixture, or with equal parts of chopped cooked meat and mashed 
potatoes, or cooked cereal, seasoned well. Put into a baking dish, add i cup of 
water and bake until the peppers are tender. 



Lesson 6. The Use and Preparation of Fish and Other Sea Foods. 



AIM. 

To teach the economical use in the diet of fish and other sea foods 
and tlie principles underlying their preparation. 

POINTS TO BE BROUGHT OUT. 

1. Composition: 

A. The per cent of protein shows about the same variation as in 
the different forms of meat. Variations are from 13 to 20 per cent, 
or about 6 per cent of the edible portion. 

B. Fat shows wide variations — from 0.2 to 20 per cent. Fish 
are usually grouped on the basis of the fat content into three groups. 
The first has less than 3 per cent fat; the second, 3 to 5 per cent; 
and the third, more than 6 per cent. 



Less than 3 per cent fat. 


3 per cent to 5 per 
cent fat. 


More than 5 per cent 
fat. 


Bass. 


Striped bass. 
Buffalo. 


Butter fish. 


Blackfish. 


Catfish. 


Cod. 


Muskpllun.ce. 


Eels. 


Floimrler. 


AVliite perch. 
Shoepsnead. 


Halibut. 


Haddock. 


Herring. 


Perch. 


Weakfish. 


Mackerel. 


Smelt. 




Salmon. 


Sturgeon. 




Shad. 


Brook trout. 




. Spanish mackerel. 


Carp. 




Salmon or lake trout. 


Burbot. * 




Turbot. 
Whitefish. 
.''aldefish. 
Eulachon. 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 117 

C. Edible portion varies in different fish from 20 to 60 per cent. 
Keep account of this in the fish bought for laboratory use and have 
the women determine the same in any fish purchased at home, keep- 
ing separately the waste in cleaning and the bone waste and estimat- 
ing the price per pound of the edible portion. 

2. Use in the diet: 

A. As a tissue-building food, fish are as valuable as meat. 

B. As a source of energy, the forms with little fat are less valuable 
than meat, but taking into consideration the fact that much of the 
fat shown in the composition of meat is lost in cooking, and that fat 
added in cooking fish is eaten with it, there is much less variation in 
the fuel value of the two as eaten than the tables of composition would 
indicate. 

C. As a source of flavor in tlic diet, fish is not so valuable as meat. 
The flavor can be developed by the method of preparation. 

3. Points to be considered in the selection of fish : 

A. Proportion of waste. — This determines the real price. 

B. Flavor. 

C. Demand. — The price is determined by the demand in relation 
to the supply. Demand is conservative and sticks to certain lines. 
Other varieties just as good are available. (See economic circulars 
published by Bureau of Fisheries for data.) The use of frozen fish in 
winter helps distribute the supply over the year, and consequently 
decreases the price. 

4. Forms in which fish are available: 

A. Fresh. 

B. Frozen. — This method decreiises the price at the time of the 
year when fresh fish are not available. When frozen fish are properly 
cared for the quality is as good as fresh. They should be thaw^ed out 
slowly in cold water. 

C. Salting, smoking, and drying make it possible for fish, available 
in large quantities at one place, to be preserved for shipping. Fish 
preserved by these methods furnish one of the cheapest sources of 
protein. 

D. Canned fish are available in all parts of the country on account 
of the ease with which the product can be preserved and transported. 

Note. — In a coiunnmity where fnv'ih fish is uot available, stress the use of 
canned, dried, and smoked fish. 

5. Points to be brought out in the preparation of fish : 

A. It is not necessary to cook for tenderness but just enough to 
develop flavor and change texture. 

B. Add flavor by proper seasoning. 

C. Add fat to fish low in fat to increase both flavor and food 
value. 



118 USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD, 

6. Shellfish: 

A. The shellfish commonly used as food are oysters, clams, lobster, 
crab, and shrimp. Since oysters are most used, they are the only 
ones that will be considered in detail. In localities where the others 
are available, lessons on them may be inserted. 

(1) The food value of oysters is not high. They contain 88.:; 
per cent water ^ or as mucli as milk; protein^ 6 per cent; /ar, l.;> 
cent; carhohydrate^ 3.3 per cent; mineral, 1.1 per cent. Much of 
the oyster is liver, which yields a large proportion of uric acid, 
so that oysters should be avoided by persons suffering from 
difficulties resulting from an accumulation of uric acid. 

(2) Place in the diet. — Oysters are used primarily as a source 
of flavor, but they are not an economical food. They are easily 
digested if eaten raw or if not overcooked. 

(3) Precautions in using. — Since oysters serve as a medium 
for the transmission of disease, care nuist be taken that they avo 
uncontaminated by impure water during their growth and that 
all containers used in shipping or in marketing them are kept 
in a sanitary condition. 

(4) Method of cooking. — The protein in oysters toughens if 
they are overcooked. They may either be eaten raw or cooked 
at a temperature below boiling. 

METHOD or DEVELOPING LABORATORY WORK. 

Have the following recipes or similar ones prepared in class, or 
have some of them prepared at home and re^Dorted on in class. Urge 
the Vv'omen to learn what types of fish or other sea foods are available 
locally and the seasons at which they are obtainable, and encourage 
the use of types of fish available but not generally known. Encour- 
age also the use of smoked and dried fish or frozen fish, if these are 
not in general use. 

BAKED FISH. 

Clean and wash well. Fill with a stufflug mnde from 2 cups brencl crumbs, 
i cup of fat, 1 minced onion, * teaspoon sage, J cup chopped celery, and 1 
tablespoon chopped ijarsley. Lay in a pan, cover with strips of salt pork, or 
brush the surface with fat and bake 20 to 30 minutes. 

PLANKED WHITEFISH. 

Select a 1 to 2 pound fish. Clean and remove the backbone and as many 
smaller bones as possible. Soak the plank well to prevent burning and lay 
the fish on it skin side dov>'n. Place in the oven or in the broiler until fish 
is tender and slightly browned. Serve with melted butter or maitre d'hotel 
butter. 



USE AND PREPAHATION OF FOOD. 119 



MAITRE D HOTEL BUTTEK. 



Bufter or butter substitute, i cup. Chopped parsley, 1 tablesiioon. 

S;!lt, i teaspoon. Lemon juice, f tablespoon. 

Paprika, i teas^ioon. 

Cream the butter, add the seasonings, then work in the lemon juice slowly. 

EGG SAUCE FOR BOILED FISH. 

Thin \Ahite sauce, 1 cup. Parsley, 1 teaspoon, chopped line. 

1 hard boiled egg, chopped fine. 

HOLLANDAISE SAVCE. 

Butter, i cup. 2 egg yolks. 

Boiling water, J cup. Salt, i teaspoon. 

Lemon juice, 1 tablespoon, or Cayenne. 
Vinegar, * tablespoon. 

Mix the unbeaten egg yolks, the lemon juice, and about one-third of the but- 
ter in the top of a double boiler over hot \\ater. Stir until the butter is melted, 
then add gradually the remaining butter, stirring constantly. Season and 
add gradually the boiling water, stirring constantly until the sauce thickens. 

E.SCALLOl'ED FINNAN H ADDLE. 

Flaked finnan haddie or other smoked Bread crumbs, i cup, 

fish, 1 cup. Fat, 2 tablespoons. 

2 hard boiled eggs, chopi>ed. Flour, 2 tablespoons. 
Milk, 1 cup. Salt and pepper. 

Make a white sauce from the fat, flour, salt, pepper, and milk. Place in a bak- 
ing disli alternate layers of fish and chopped egg. Pour white sauce over, 
cover with crumbs, and brown well in the oven. 

OYSTEK STEW. 

Melt 3 tablespoons of butter or substitute in a pan, stir in 3 tablespoons of 
flour, and add a quart of milk, stirring constantly. When thickened, add i 
pint of oysters, season with pepper, salt, and chopped parsley, and remove from 
the fire as soon as the oysters are heated through and the edges begin to curl. 

FRIED OYSTERS. 

Drain oysters, dip in egg, roll in crumbs, dip again in egg and roll in crumbs, 
to form a thick coating over the oyster. Fry in deep fat one minute. Serve 
hot. 

STLTFFED BAKED CARP.* 

Prepare carp by sknining and removing entrails. Stuff the carp with dress- 
ing made as follows : 

Soaked stale bread, 2 cups. Peiiper. i teaspoon. 

Beef drippings, 4 tablespoons. Salt, 1 teaspoon. 

Ground mace, ^ teaspoon. 

Sew up the opening or tie securely. Place the fish in a dripping pan the 
bottom of which has been covered with a thin layer of fat and slices of onions. 
Bake until the fish is a golden brown. Serve with parsley and slices of lemon. 

* Twelve Ways to Cook Carp, Circular 93, University of Wisconsin. 



120 use and prepaeation of food. 

Lesson 7. The Use and Preparation of Poultry and Game. 

AIM. 

To teach the ways of cooking poultry and rabbit. 

Note. — This lesson takes up particularly tlie cooking of rabbits, since both 
the tame and wild species are relatively abundant. In regions where other 
wild game is available, the teacher should give specific suggestions for its use. 
General rules for cooking are the same as for poultry and rabbits. 

points to be brought out. 



1. The food value of poultry and rabbit is similar to that of other 

meats. 

Coiiiposition 0/ poultry and rabbit. 

[Compilcrt by Louise Stanley from data from varioxis sources.] 



Description. 



Cliicken, broilers: 

KUible portion 

As purchased 

rowls: 

Edible portion 

As purcnased 

Goose, young: 

Edible portion 

As purchased 

Turkey: 

l.dible portion 

As purchased 

Rabbit: Edil>le portion. 



Waste. 



Per cent. 



41.6 
'25.9' 



17.6 
'22.'?' 



Protein. 



Pfr cent. 
21.. 5 
12.8 

19.3 
12.3 

46.7 
38.5 

21.1 
16.1 

20. 2 



Fat. 



Per cent. 
2.5 
1.4 

16.3 
12.3 

d6.3 

29.8 

29.9 
18.4 

18.8 



Ash. 



Per cent. 
1.1 

.7 

1.0 
.7 

.8 
.7 

1.0 

.8 

11 



Calories 

per 
pound. 



402 
289 



1,016 
751 



1,774 
1,460 



1,318 
1,043 



2. The use of poultry and rabbit is a valuable measure in saving 
meats and is an economic measure because : 

A. They gi-ow more quickly. 

B. They can be grown largely on other than human foods. 

C. If produced locally their use saves transportation. 

3. Economical use: 

A. Waste is less when the animal reaches full growth. 

B. Do not carry through the winter fowls or rabbits except those 
to be used for egg production or breeding. 

C. Take care of any surplus due to fall .supply or products of 
hunt by : 

(1) Canning. (See Unit IX, Lesson 10.) 

(2) Making rabbit sausage. 

D. Render any excess fat or save fat that cooks out in prepara- 
tion and use as you would any other household fat. Poultry fat is 
especially desirable for cooking. 

4. Principles observed in cooking these are the same as in the 
case of other meats. The skin of the foAvl helps retain the flavor. 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 121 

A. Tender fowls and rabbits may be cooked quickly by broiling, 
baking, or frying. 

B. Tougher fowls and rabbits must have long slow cooking in 
moist heat. 

(1) Flavor may be retained and developed by browning be- 
fore the long cooking. 

(2) Flavor may be developed by browning after cooking 
until tender. 

(3) Well-seasoned gravy will help to furnish flaA^or. 

(4) Flavor may be extended by cooking with dressing, dump- 
lings, cereals, vegetables, etc. (See Lesson 4.) 

METHOD OF DEVELOPING LABORATORY WORK. 

Either poultry or rabbit may be used for demonstration, or both, 
according to the availabilit3\ Recipes are given below. If home- 
canned chicken or rabbit can be obtained, it should be brought to 
class for the women to see and to sample. It may be used in pre- 
paring some of the dishes suggested. 

HOAST FOWL WITH POTATO STUFFING. 

Clean the fowl aiid stuff it with the potato stiifhng given below. For a ten- 
der fowl, place in a roasting pan in a moderate oven and bake slowly until 
tender, basting occasionally with fat. For a tough fowl, cook in the fireloss 
cooker until tender, then stuff and brown in the oven. 

POTATO STUFFING. 

Hot mashed potatoes, 2 cups. Fat, 3 tablespoons. 

Bread crumbs, 1^ cups. Salt, 1^ teaspoons. 

1 chopped onion. Sage, 1 teaspoon. 

1 pcrcr 

CHICKEN WITH RICE. 

An old fowl may be used. Clean and cut into pieces as for frying and roll in 
seasoned flour or meal. In a frying pan put a small amount of fat, add a 
sliced onion and a chopped green pepper, and cook until tender. Brown the 
chicken quickly in the seasoned fat ; add 2 cups of hot water and li cui)s 
cooked rice. Cover closely and cook slowly until the chicken Is tender, addinu 
more water if necessary. 

CREAMED CHICKEN. 

To li cups M'hite sauce add 2 cups diced cooked chicken. Heat thoroughly, 
season with salt, paprika, and chopped parsely, and serve on toast or in 
pastry or mashed potato cases. A chopped hard-boiled egg may be used for 
garnishing. 



122 USE AND PEEPAEATION OF TOOD. 

KOASr KABBIT. 

Wash the rabbit well with soda water. Lay in salted water for an hour. 
Stuff with onion, celery, or chestnut dressing and sew up. In a baking dish 
place the following: 

1 onion. 1 carrot (diced). 

A few cloves. Whole pepper corns. 

1 bay leaf. 

Rub the rabbit with salt and pepper and place in pan, putting fat here and 
there over the rabbit. Sift a little tlour over the top and pour a cup of stock 
or hot water into the pan. Cover tightly and roast, busting frequently. When 
ready to serve, place on hot platter and garnish with slices of lemon and 
cranberry or current jelly. 

SPICED RABBIT. 

Wash rabbit in soda water. Disjoint hind legs; cut off the saddle, remove 
the fore quarters. This makes 9 pieces in all. Lay in salt water about an 
hour. Place rabbit in dish and cover with weak vinegar. Allow to remain 
overnight. Remove from pickle, salt each piece slightly, and arrange in 
baking pan. Cut an onion over it and add 1 bay leaf, a dozen pepper corns, a 
stalk or some leaves of celery, some parsely, a cup of stock, and some of the 
' inegar in which the meat was soaked. Cover and bake until tender in a mod- 
erate oven. Remove to hot dish. Make gravy from the stock in the pan, 
using drippings ami enougli browned flour to thicken. Be sure it is well sea- 
soned and pour over the rabbit. 

FRIED RABBIT. 

Cut in pieces, roll in flour or meal, and brown in fat. Cover and cook slowly 
on top of stove until tender. Add water, or small amount of gravy if neces- 
sary. 



Lesson 8. The Dinner Menu. 



Aur. 

To outline tho chief essentials of a dinner menn so that it may be 
filled in to give meals of varying degrees of simplicity. 

POINTS TO BE BROUGHT OUT. 

1. The dinner is frequently the heaviest meal of the day. On this 
account all the different groups of food should be represented in it. 

2. The basic portion of the meal : 

A. The main course usually consists of meat or a protein-rich food, 
a starchy vegetable as potatoes or rice, and a green vegetable to give 
the mineral constituents. The starch is further increased by the 
bread, and fat is furnished by the butter, the fat of the protein-rich 
food and usually some fat is added in seasoning the vegetables. 



USE AND PREPAHATION OF FOOD. 123 

B. The dessert course furnishes the sweets. Its character should 
be determined by the remainder of the meal. If the meal is low in 
fat, a fat-rich pastry might be used or a cream rich in fat. With u 
meal rich in fat a lighter fruit or ice is more desirable. 

C. Other courses which may be added : 

(1) Soup or cocktail may be served first as an appetizer. An 
appetizer is only necessary when the natural appetite fails. 
Such soup should be well flavored, but not too rich, else it dulls 
the appetite rather than stimulates it. A fruit cocktail should 
not be too sweet for the same reason. 

(2) The fish course is sometimes used between the first and 
the meat course. This increases undesirably the amount of 
protein food in the meal. 

(3) The salad course folloAvs or is served with the meat course. 
In a simple meal it may take the place of the green vegetable. 
Its contributions are mineral salts and fat. The character of 
the salad is determined by the other constituents of the meal. 
Only a light salad should be used with a heavy dinner menu. 

Simple standards demand two or three courses of well-prepared 
simple foods. This is especially necessary when the housekeeper 
must prepare and serve her own meals. A few dishes well prepared 
are in much better taste than an elaborate meal in which many 
courses duplicate the types of fcod needed. 

METHOD OF DEVELOPING LABORATORY WORK. 

Have the women plan meals for various occasions and at various 
cost-. Discuss these from the following points of view : 

1. Are the desirable food groups represented? 

2. Does any one group occur too frequently? 

3. Can it be easily prepared and served? 

4. If the housewife must prepare the meal alone, can not most of 
the meal be prepared in advance so as to avoid the rush which 
frequently comes just before serving the meal? 

Have the most desirable of them prepared either at home or in 
class and the total calories, cost, and time of preparation calculated 
accurately. 

The cost of the meals can be defrayed by charging an adequate 
price per plate. 

REFERENCES. 

United States Department of Agriculture: 

Farmers' Bluletin .340. Meats: Composition and Cooking. 
Farmers' Bulletin 85. Fish as Food. 

Farmers' Bulletin 391. Economical Use of Meat in the Home. 
Farmers' Bulletin 526. Mutton and Its Value in the Diet. 



124 USE AND PKEPAEATION OF FOOD. 

United States Department t)f Agriculture — Continued. 

Fanners' Bulletin 487. Food Value and Uses of Poultry. 

Department Bulletin 27. Bouillon Cubes: Their Contents and Food Value 

Compared With Meat Extracts and Home-Made Preparations of Meat. 
Department Bulletin 538. Shrimp: Handling, Transportation, and Uses. 
Department Bulletin 649. Experiments on the Digestibility of Fish. 
United States Department of Agriculture Yearbook, Separate 623. Supplement- 
ing our Meat Supply with Fish. 
United States Department of Commerce, Bureau of Fisheries: 

Economic Circular No. 11, Canned Salmon. Cheaper than INIeat and Why, 

including 50 tested recipes. 
Economic Circular No. 12. Sea Mussels. What They Are and How to Cook 

Tliem, with 18 recipes. 
Economic Circular No. 13. Commercial Possibilities of the Goose Fish, a 

Neglected Food, with 10 recipes. 
Economic Circular No. 13. Oysters ; the Food That Has Not Gone Up. 
United States Food Leaflets (see note at end of Lesson 6, Unit II) : 
No. 3. A Whole Dinner in One Dish. 
No. 5. Make a Little Meat Go a Long Way. 
No. 8. Instead of Meat. 
No. 17. Use More Fish. 
United States Department of Agriculture (in cooperation with the Woman's 
Committee, Council National Defense) : 
The Day's Food in War and Peace. 



UNIT VII. 

Batters and Doughs. 

GENERAL INFORMATION. 

In the section on cereals we called attention to the fact that Avheat 
is the cereal used in largest amounts in Europe and America because 
it is preeminently the bread cereal. This fact was brought home to 
us most forcibly during the recent World War. 

Wheat is especially adapted to bread making on account of the 
presence of two proteins, gliadin and glutenin, which unite when 
the flour is worked with water to form an elastic material called 
gluten. It is the presence of this gluten which makes possible the 
light loaf of bread, for it expands as gas is released in the bread 
and is hardened on heating, fixing the shape of the gas-containing 
cells and the loaf of bread. The presence of gluten is especially 
necessary for bread raised by yeast. 

No other cereal contains both the proteins necessary to form glu- 
ten, and only rye contains one of them, the sticky gliadin. Rye 
makes a sticky loaf less light than that prepared from the wheat 
flour. 

During the war there Avas a shortage of wheat clue to: 

1. Decrease of production in w^arring countries. 

2. Several short crops in America. 

3. Supplies in Australia, India, and South America were unavail- 
able on account of shortage of shipping. 

4. Some was lost by sinking. 

Wheat was essential abroad because practically all the bread there 
is made at the bakers and must be durable. Such bread is not suc- 
cessfully made with less than 75 per cent wheat. 

The American housewife was asked to substitute other flours in 
the breads made at home because — 

1. They were available here. 

2. The other cereals can be used more successfully in the quick 
home breads than in the bakery breads. 

In order to distribute this saving equally the housewives were 
required to buy a definite amount of the so-called substitute flours 
with every purchase of wdieat flour. 

The price of wheat flour was controlled by the Government be- 
cause wheat bread is a basic food, which must be available to those 
with small incomes. It continued during the war to be our cheapest 

125 



126 USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 

food. Through vohintaiy regulation the use of wheat was con- 
ti'oUed among those who were able to pay for more expensive foods 
so as to have enough wheat bread for use among those who must 
depend upon the baker and who could not buy the more expensive 
foods. The high-class hotels were the first to go into the wheatless 
program. 

During last year the United States sent abroad 140,000,000 bushels 
of wheat without which it is doubtful whether the war would have 
been won ; 120,000,000 bushels were saved out of the normal con- 
sumption of the people. 

At the present time we have an increased amount of wheat avail- 
able due to : 

1. Availability of supplies in India, Australia, and South America 
as shipping is released from war purposes. 

2. Large crops raised this year in response to call of Food Ad- 
ministration and other agencies. 

On the other hand, the crops of some of the other cereals were 
materially decreased this year as the result of other conditions. 

As a result there has been a let-up in the wheat conservation pro- 
gram. The housewife is no longer required to buy the substitutes 
with the wheat flour and the baker may make an unmixed wheat 
loaf. On the other hand, the cooperation of all the housewives is 
needful in a cereal-saving program. This should include: 

1. Wise use of all cereals. 

2. Continued use of other cereals where they seiwe as well as 
wheat. 

This is important if we are to do our part in feeding the starving 
people in Europe and are to have enough food for cattle so as to 
keep up the normal supply of milk and bring the usual meat supply 
of the world to something like the normal level. In order to do this 
intelligently a knowledge of the behavior of the different flours in 
bread making is essential. 



Lesson 1. Quick Breads. 



AIM. 



To give the proportions of ingredients and method of making 
quick breads, stressing the proportions of flour to liquid. 



POINTS TO BE BROUGHT OUT. 



1. There are standard proportions for all the typical quick breads. 
If these proportions are kept in mind, such breads may be prepared 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 



127 



without the use of a recipe. A recipe may be checked to see if it 
will work or modified to suit the materials on hand. 



Table shoioing standard proportions for quick breads. 



Kind. 


Liquid. 


Flour. 


Fat. 


Fggs. 


Baking 
powder. 


Seasonuig. 


Batters: 


1 cup 

...do 


1 cup 

Ih cups.. 

...do 


It 

...do 

1 to3t.. 
It 

3 t 


1 

1 

1 to2 

1 




J t. salt. 




2t 

3t 

4t 

...do 


Do. 


\\afTles 


...do 


Do. 


Mnifins 


.do... 


2 cups... 

23-3 cups 
...do 


1 1. salt. 


Doushs: 


.do... 


Do. 


Shortcake 


...do 


6t 




...do 


Do. 

















t=tefispoon. 

A. The liquid may be milk or water, or both. 

B. Tlio flour is standard soft wheat; when other flours are used 
they should be substituted on basis of rules given in the next lesson. 

C. Any sweet cooking fat on hand may be used. 

D. Eggs improve the texture of the product. They may be omit- 
ted or dried eggs substituted on basis of one slightly rounded table- 
spoon for each fresh egg. (See Unit IV, Lesson 2.) So-called egg 
powders seldom contain any egg and so are not good substitute for 
eggs in viands. 

E. The leavening added in the above is baking powder. The pop- 
overs are leavened with steam. If sour milk is used soda should be 
added and the baking powder decreased in accordance wdth the 
rules given in Lesson 5. 

F. Salt only is suggested for flavor. Sugar may be added if 
desired. 

2. In combining the following points should be held in mind : 

A. Beating or kneading wheat flour mixtures after the addition 
of liquid develops gluten and toughens quick breads. 

I?. When the leavening agent is a gas liberated from baking pow- 
der or acid and soda, batter mixtures should not be allowed to stand 
too long before baking because the gas escapes. 

3. Method of combining quick breads: 

A. Batters. — Sift the dry ingredients together. Mix the liquid, 
melted fat, and slightly beaten egg. Combine the two mixtures, 
stirring lightly wihout beating. 

B. Doughs. — Sift the dry ingredients. Cut or chop in the fat; 
add the liquid slowly, handling as little as possible. Roll on a 
floured board. 

4. Baking: 

A. Popovcrs are leavened by steam formed from the large pro- 
j^ortion of water present. In order to have this water changed to 
steam before the mixture cooks so much over the top as to prevent 



128 USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 

rising, they are placed in a very hot oven, 225° to 250° C. (437° to 
482° F,), and the temperatnre of the oven decreased. After the 
popovers have " popped," allow them to cook through. The largo 
center cavity is typical of mixtures leavened in this way. 

B. The baking powder mixtures are cooked best in a hot oven, 
225° C. (437° F.). Some of the gas is not released until the mixture 
is heated, and then it is released suddenly. If the temperature is 
too low the mixtures dry out over the top before raising. 

METHOD OF DEVELOPING LABORATORY WORK. 

Have the women bring in the recipes they are using for quick 
breads and show how they conform to the above general rules when 
the measures are accurately made, and the flour the same. Many of 
the Avomen have probably trained their judgment so that they just 
" mix." Have them measure the amounts of ingredients their judg- 
ment tells them are correct and see how nearly they conform with the 
amoimts stated above. Have the women prepare in class the mixtures 
with which they are least familiar and try to have represented a 
standard example of each group. It is especially important that the 
jn-oducts should be up to standard in a group in which the standards 
tend to be low. 



Lesson 2. The Use of Whole Wheat and Graham Flours. 

AIM. 

To give the women an appreciation of the differences in behavior 
and food value of the different kinds of wheat flour. 

POINTS TO be brought OUT. 

1. Variations in wheat flour are due to: 

A, Kinds of wheat used: 

(1) Winter wheat or soft wheat is loAver in gluten-forming 
constituents. 

(2) Spring wheat or hard wheat is higher in gluten-forming 
constituents. 

B. Method of milling, determining — 

(1) Parts of grain ground. 

(2) Blending of streams of flour. 

2. Milling of flour: 

A. The simplest process or the grinding of the whole grain be- 
tween two stones or rollers results in Graham flour ^ so-called after 
Sylvester Graham, who was an advocate of the use of this type of 
flour in the nineteenth century. 

B. The next step in the milling is the removal of a portion of 
the bran from the flour by bolting. This results in the so-called 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 



129 



whole-wheat -jioui\ from which 10 per cent of the grain containing 
a hirge portion of the outer bran coat has been removed. 

C. White foil)' is prepared bj^ removing both the bran and the 
dark germ portion of the grain. In order to accomplish this suc- 
cessfully it was found that the Avhole grain should not be pulverized 
before sifting, but that tlie bran and germ should be separated as 
completely as possible from the endosperm portion before it is 
ground. The milling process by which this is accomplished is called 
the gradual reduction process. In it the clean wheat is run through 
a series of rollers set at graduated distances apart. This product 
from each of these rolls is sifted to separate the bran and flattened 
germ from the granular endosperm portion. The endosperm por- 
tion is then ground in separate streams and blended. During the 
war all these streams were blended in a straight of flour which con- 
tained 74 per cent of the grain. Ordinaril}'^, onh' 71 per cent of the 
grain is found in white flour. The grades are : 

(1) Patents are the best flours. The short patents have higher 
bread-making power and are more expensive than the long 
patents. 

(2) Straight run is made by blending all the streams. 

(3) Clear grades and Red Dog four are the cheaper grades 
of low bread-making power. 

3. Comparison of different kinds of wheat flour : 

A. Bread-making power. — The patent flours are the best, and 
the shorter the patent usually the higher bread-making power. This 
is on account of both the quantity and the quality of the gluten. In 
times of wheat shortage, it is important to preserve bread-making 
power. 

B. Completeness of absorption. — The white flour with a minimum 
of indigestible residue is most completely absorbed. This question 
was a vital one in the time of wheat shortage because the portion 
of wheat rejected in milling could be used to better advantage by 
animals than humans. The portion of residue which is not absorbed 
makes the unbolted flours especially desirable in cases of constipa- 
tion. 

C. Food value. — The food value of the less highly prirified flours 
is higher than that of the white flours as is shown by the following 
table: 

[From " Food Products," by Sherman.] 



Description. 


Water. 


Protein. 


Fat. 


Carbo- 
hydrate. 


Fiber. 


Ash. 


Calories 

per 
pound. 




Per cent. 
11.30 
11.40 
12.80 


Pit cent. 
13.30 
13.80 
10.80 


Per cent. 
2.20 
1.90 
1.10 


Per cent. 
71.40 
71.90 
74. SO 


Per cent. 

1.9 

.9 

.2 


Per cent. 
1.8 
1.0 

.5 


1 62S 


Whole wheat flour 


1,630 

1,600 


Straight grade white flour 



130 USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 

When we take into consideration the greater yield of flour, 100 
pounds of graham and 90 pounds of whole wheat from every 100 
l)ounds of wheat, as compared with 71 pounds of white flour, this 
more than overcomes the difference in absorption. 

The unbolted flours are especially higli in mineral and vitamine 
content. This is important in a restricted diet if the bread makes 
up any large proportion of it, but can be disregarded if the diet is 
varied. It is more important in the case of children than adults. 

D. Keeping qualities; — The white flours keep better, as the fat and 
enzymes present in the germ tend to hasten the deterioration of the 
unbolted flours; also it is more likely to contain developing larvai 
of insects. 

E. Comparative costs. — Theoretically, the unbolted flours should be 
cheaper because a smaller amount of wheat is used in their prepara- 
tion, but in most communities the white and unbolted flours cost the 
same or the advantage is on the side of the white flours. This is 
probably due to: 

(1) Poorer keeping qualities of the unbolted flours. 

(2) Most mills are prepared to handle the bolted flour only 
and do not care to stimulate a denumd for the unbolted. 

METHOD OF DEVELOPING LABORATORY WORK. 

If there is a mill in the comnumity, have the women visit it. The 
essential points should be explained before they enter Ihe mill, since 
the noise there is so great that any explanations are difficult. 

During the laboratory period have samples of the various flours 
on hand; have the woman weigh a well-sifted cupful of each. On 
this basis substitute hard wheat and unbolted flours for the soft 
wheat flour used in last lesson in at least one typical mixture. On 
basis of the results, work out table of substitution. Have other typi- 
cal mixtures tried out at home and their success reported upon. 



Lesson 3. The Use or Flours from Other Grains Than "Wheat. 

AIM. 

To show the women the method of substituting and use of other 
flours than wheat. 

POINTS TO BE BROUGHT OUT. 

1. During the scarcity of wheat successful flours have been pre- 
pared from other food materials than wheat. Some of these had been 



USE AND PREPAKATION OF FOOD. 



131 



in successful use before; some were not in general use until necessity 
d<Miumded a greater supply of materials for use in bread maldng, 

A. Kinds available generally are: 

Rye. 

Corn meal and flour. 

Barley. 

Oat flour. 

Kafir flour. 

B. Less usual flours are: 

Cottonseed-meal flour. 
Soy-bean flour. 
Peanut flour, 
llie above flours are interesting on account of the variety and 
flavor they introduce into the diet. Wliere certain flours are more 
available than the usual cereals there is economy in their use. 
2. Comparison of flours from other gi^ains with wheat flour : 

A. Bread-making power is less, for no other grain contains both 
the gluten-forming proteins which are so essential if the bread is to 
hold up. One other grain, rye, contains one of these proteins, and 
bread made from it holds together but lacks the lightness of wheat 
bread. 

B. Completeness of absorption depends upon the amomit of indi- 
gestible residue contained, and varies with the method of milling 
rather than the kind of cereal used. 

C. Food value is practically interchangeable in the different cereal 
flours as they appear on the market. Greater variations are seen in 
flours from different portions of the same grain than from different 
grains. 

Table sJioiving composition of different cereal flours. 



Description. 



Water. 



Protein. 



Fat. 



Carbo- 
hydrate. 



Ash. 



Calories 

per 
pound. 



Barley meal and flour 

Corn meal 

Rye flour 

Wheat flour 



Per cent. 
11.9 
12.5 
12.9 
12.8 



Per cent. 
10.5 
9.2 

6.8 
10.8 



Per cent. 

2.2 

1.9 

.9 

1.1 



Per cent. 

72.8 
75.4 
78.7 
74.8 



Per cent. 

2.6 

1.0 

.7 

.5 



1, eo.3 

1,620 
1,588 
1,600 



D, Keeping qualities are, in general, not so good, though this is 
determined .more by the method of milling than by the kind of grain 
used. 

E. Comparative costs are determined by supply and demand. 
AVlien the price of wheat was controlled by the Government and the 
people were required to buy a certain proportion of substitutes they 
were, in general, higher in price. Under ordinary circumstances 
many of the substitutes are cheaper than wheat flours. 



132 



USE AND PEEPAEATION OF FOOD. 



3. General rules for their use in quick breads : 

A. They may be used more successfully in quick breads than in 
the breads leavened by yeast. Any proportion up to 50 per cent 
may be used successfully in combination with wheat flour. In mix- 
tures containing egg the substitutes may be increased to 75 per cent. 

B. Combinations of substitutes may be used with advantage both 
as to flavor and texture. Some good combinations are : 

Rye flour or barley flour and corn flour or rice flour ; or 
Peanut flour or soy-bean flour and potato flour or corn flour. 

C. Substitution should be made on the basis of weight and com- 
position. The batters vary somewhat in consistency from those 
made from wheat flour alone. 

Equivalcnis of one cup of tchcat flour. 



Barley flour 1^ cups. 

Buckwheat flour i cup. 

Corn flour 1 cup. 

Corn meal (coarse) i cup. 

Com meal (fine) 1 cup.' 

Feterita s cup. 

Kafir i cup. 

Milo flour i cup. 



Oat flour 1 cup.i 

Peanut flour 1 cup.' 

Potato flour f cup. 

Rice flour | cup. 

Rye flour l|cups. 

Soj--bean flour | cup. 

Sweet potato flour IJ cups. 



1 Scant. 

Note. — There is a variation in the thickening quality of flours and meals due to methods of milling, the 
varying water content and the thickening power of starches from dillerent sources. 

D. If cooked cereal, potatoes, or legumes are u.sed in quick breads, 
the amount of liquid should be reduced and the mixture made stitfer 
than usual. 

METHOD or DEVELOPING LABORATORY WORK. 

Have on hand any available flours other than wheat. Have the 
women weigh cupfuls and compare with the weights given in tables. 
Substitute on this basis in some typical flour mixtures. Compare 
product with those made from all wheat as to texture, flavor, and 
comparative economy. Have women report upon any use of these 
flours in their homes. 

GRAHAM MUFFINS. 

Use the standard proportions for muffins, with Ij cups Graham flour and i 
cup wheat flour. 

CORN-FLOUB OR RICE-FLOUR MUFFINS. 

Use standard proportions given above, with i cup wlieat flour and 11 cups 
corn flour, or IJ cups rice flour. 

BERKSHIRE MUFFINS. 



Scalded niillv, § cup. 
One egg. 
Salt, 1 teaspoon. 
Fat, 1 tablespoon. 

Pour the scalded milk over the meal and let stand five minutes. Add the 
other Ingredients, folding in the beaten white of egg last. 



Baking powder, 4 teaspoons. 
Corn meal, ^ cup. 
Wheat flour, i cup. 
Cooked rice, i cup. 



USE AND PKEPARATION OF FOOD. 133 

RAISIN BREAD. 

Corn ruoal, 1 cup. Sweet milk, 2i cups. 

Corn flour, 1 cup. Molasses, * cup. 

Wheat flour, 2 cups. One egg. 

Baking powder, 6 teaspoons. Raisins, 1 cup. 

Soda, i teaspoon. Salt, 1 teaspoon. 

Mix dry ingredients, adding molasses, egg, and milk, mixed. Bake in a loaf 
in a slow oven one and one-half hours. 



Lesson -1. Corn Breads. 

AIM. 

To sliow the nutritive value of corn meal and ways of using it as 
food. 

POINTS TO BE BROUGHT OUT. 

1. Importance of corn meal as a food: 

A. Abundance. — Corn is the most abundant cereal crop of the 
United States, the annual production being between three and four 
times the production of wheat. The general distribution of the crop 
and the abundant facilities for milling it make corn meal available 
everywhere with a minimum of transportation. 

B. Possibility of an increased supply. — Only a small amount of 
the corn crop is used for human food, the larger part being fed to 
animals. Corn and corn products could easily supph' a much larger 
proportion of our diet. 

C. Cost. — Corn meal is an economical food. At ordinary prices 
it is one of our cheapest forms of energy and could well be used to 
replace some of the more expensive foods. 

2. Composition: 

A. In composition, corn meal varies but little from the average for 
cereal flours. (See Lesson 3.) It is used principally as a source of 
energy^ although it supplies some huUding material. It is slightly 
higher in fuel value than wheat flour but somewhat lower in protein, 

B. The composition varies slightly with the method of milling. 

(1) In "old process*' water-ground meal, the whole grain is 
crushed and the germ and a large proportion of the bran are 
retained, thus increasing the amount of fat and mineral in the 
meal. 

(2) In the "new process*' or "bolted'' corn meal, the germ 
and most of the bran are remo^■ed. The meal is lower in fat and 
mineral and is not so good in flavor, but its keeping qualities are 
better. 

C. There is practically no difference in composition between yel- 
low and white com meal made by the same process. 



134 USE A^B PREPARATION OE FOOD. 

3. Nutritive viiliie : Cora meal is a palatable, nutritious food, pos- 
sessing much the same food ^alue as wheat flour. The bolted meal, 
like other refined cereal products, is low in mineral and so-called 
" vitamines " (see Unit XII, Lesson 3), and if used to make up a 
large part of the diet, should be supplemented with foods such as 
milk, eggs, and green vegetables, which, supply this deficiency. 

4. Uses of corn meal : 

A. In breads. — Corn meal may be used alone or combined with 
wheat flour or other flours or meals in a large variety of breads. 
These may be — 

(1) Simple corn breads, such as corn dodgers or hoe cake, 
which are raised by th(^ steam forming during cooking. They 
contain corn meal, salt, and liquid, and sometimes a small 
amount of fat : are easily made, economical, and palatable. They 
are usually eaten hot. 

(2) Breads leavened with soda or baking powder, such as 
griddle cakes, nuiffins, or corn pone. ^^g:g, may or may not be 
used as a binder. When used it improves the texture and the 
food value. When egg is omitted, a small amount of wheat 
flour may be used for the gluten. (See Lesson 2.) This impairs 
the flavor for those w^ho like corn bread. 

(3) In yeast bread corn meal may be substituted for a part of 
the wheat flour. (See Lesson 1.) It may be combined with the 
flour or cooked to a nuish and added to the sponge. The latter 
method gives a less dry loaf. 

B. Other ways of using corn meal : 

(1) In mush, served as a cereal porridge, or in place of a 
starchy vegetable, or sliced cold, sauteed, and served in place 
of buttered toast. 

(2) As a main dish; generally combined with foods high 
in fat or protein such as meat, fish, or cheese, in loaves, escal- 
lopecl dishes, croquettes, etc. 

(3) As a dessert, in puddings, cakes, or cookies. 

METHOD OF DEVELOPING LABORATORY WORK. 

Discuss the avaihibility of corn meal and its cost as compared to 
other cereals. Ask for suggestions as to variety in using corn meal 
and good combinations with other foods. Use in demonstration some 
of the old-fashioned breads which are especially economical. Include 
recipes with and without eggs. Show how sweet milk and baking 
powder maj^ be used interchangeably in the recipes with sour milk 
and soda (one-half teaspoon soda to one cup sour milk). Bring out 
the point that corn meal thickens up in cooking more than wheat 
flour does, and therefore batters made with corn meal should be 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 135 

thinner than those made from wheat flour. Corn breads also require 
a higher temperature in baking. The following recipes may be used 
or others taken from Farmers' Bulletin No. 565, or suggested by 
students. 

COBN-MEAL MUSH. 

AViiter, 4 cups or milk, 3^ cups. Salt, 1 teaspoon. 

Corn meal, 1 cup. 

Bring the liquid to the boiling point and sift in the meal, stirring to prevent 
lumping. Cooli 45 minutes or longer. It may be cooked in a double boiler or in 
the oven to avoid spattering. 

CORN DODGER. 

Corn meal, 2 cups. Fat, 2 teaspoons. 

Salt, 1 teaspoon. Boiling water. If cups. 

Pour the boiling water over the other materials; beat well. Make into 
small cakes and bake in a hot oven. 

QUICK CORN BREAD. 

Corn meal, 2 cups. Milk, 2 cups. 

Baking powder, 4 teaspoons. Melted fat, 2 tablespoons. 

1 egg. Salt, 1 teaspoon. 

Bake in a shallow pan for 30 minutes. 

POTATO CORN-MEAL MUB'FINS. 

jMlliv, 1 cup. Mashed potato, 1 cup. 

1 egg. Corn meal, 1 cup. 

Melted fat, 1 tablespoon. Baking powder, 4 tablespoons. 

Mix in order given. Bake 40 minutes. 

SPOON CORN RREAD. 

Cornmeal, 1 cup; water, 2 cups; mix and cook into a mush, cool and add — 
Salt, i teaspoon. Milk, 1 cup. 

Butter substitute, 1 tablespoon. Yolks of 3 eggs. 

Fold in the beaten whites of the eggs last. Pour into a greased baking disli 
and bake 30 minutes in a moderate oven. Serve in baking dish with spoon. 

BOSTON BROWiN BREAD. 

Corn meal, 1 cup. Baking powder, 1 teaspoon. 

Rye meal or flour, 1 cup. Soda, f teaspoon. 

Graham flour, 1 cup. Milk or water, 2 cups. 

Molasses, i cup. Salt, 1 teaspoon. 

Nuts or raisins, i cup ; both may be added if desired. 

Mix, fill greased molds two-thirds full of the batter and steam two and oiie- 
half hours. 



136 USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 

COBN-MEAL FISH CAKES. , 

Coi-n-meal nuish, 2 cups. Chopped parsley, 1 tablespoon. 

Shvedded fish, 1 cup. Salt, I teaspoon. 

Chopped onions, 2 tablespoons. 

Shape into small cakes, and brown in a small amount of fat or in the oven, 

INDIAN PUDDING. 

Corn meal, J cup. Cinnamon, 1 teaspoon ; or ginger, 1 

Boiling water, 1 cup. teaspoon. 

Sirup or molasses, i cup. Salt, 1 teaspoon. 
Milk, 3 cups. 

Cook the corn meal, milk, and water to a mush. Add the other ingredients 
and bake in a greased pan for two hours. Serve with sauce. 

Note. — In communities where corn meal is not liked this lesson should be 
combined with the last. 



Lesson 5. Soue Milk and Molasses Mixtures. 



AIM. 

To show the women the principles underlying the leavening of bat- 
tors and doughs and enable them to vary the forms of leavening 
called for in a given recipe. 

POINTS TO be brought OUT. 

1. In order to leaven a batter or dough it is necessary to incorpo- 
rate in it during mixing or have liberated in it during mixing or 
baking a gas which expands on heating, raising the product. The 
heat sets the gas-containing cells, making the product retain its 
.shape. 

2. The more usual leavening agents are: 

A. Air which may be incorporated by entrapping in egg white or 
beating directly into the mixtures. 

B. Baking powders are frequently used on account of their con- 
venient form. They all contain ba-king soda and a mild acid. When 
vrater is added to mixtures containing baking powder the acid reacts 
with the soda releasing carbon dioxide. 

C. Steam is, as we have seen, the leavening agent in case of pop- 
overs. It is formed by the volitilization of a portion of the liquid 
and is probably a contributing factor in the leavening of other types 
of bread. Steam is evidently the factor in puff pastry. Articles 
leavened by steam are cooked in very hot oven at first to facilitate 
steam formation. 



USE AND PEEPAKATION OF FOOD. 137 

D. Yeast and bacteria are used as means of leaA'ening bread. Both 
these are small, one-celled plants which act upon certain ingredients 
in the dough and give off gases. If they are mixed with the dough 
the gas is given off in the bread and may be used to leaven it. Yeast 
is most used and may be obtained on the market in several forms. 
(See LesSpOn 6.) Bacteria are the source of the gas in salt-rising 
bread. The organism will not live long in moist form as compressed 
yeast cake, but can be dried in corn meal and kept for a longer time- 
in that form. 

E. Soda with an acid as in sour milk or molasses. When soda is 
added to sour milk the acid in the milk reacts with the soda, setting 
free a gas, carbon dioxide. The gas can be seen escaping from the 
mixture in the form of tiny bubbles. We take advantage of this fact 
in the leavening of bread. In this case the soda should be thoroughly 
mixed with the dry ingredients, so when the sour milk is added the 
gas is released but is held in by the batter or dough. Molasses and 
other acid sirups, as honey and sorghum, may be used in the same 
way. 

F. Baking powders are made up of soda and an acid powder. 
These are mixed with starch to keep them dry. The powder is sifted 
with the dry ingredients of the mixture and reacts when the liquid 
is added. There are four general types of baking powder on the 
market according to the form of acid used. They are : 

(1) Tartrate. 

(2) Phosphate. 

(3) Alum. 

(4) Alum phosphate. 

3. Proportions. — The amount of leavening agent to be used is 
based upon the amount of flour. An experienced worker who handles 
her materials quickly can use less than one with less experience. 

A. The proportions given for taking powders vary from one to 
two teaspoonfuls for each cup of flour. The first will be successful in 
the hands of the skilled worker ; the second is better for the unskilled 
worker or in case the batter must stand. Practically all standard 
baking powders contain the same amount of available gas. Some 
react more readily than others in the cold and so may lose their gas 
in the can, or lose it more readily on mixing than the powders which 
do not react until heat has been applied. 

B. AVith the soda mixtures the amount of soda to be used is based 
upon the amount of acid liquid. The table below gives the amount 
for each cup of the acid solution. 

Cup of acid solution; amount of soda. 

Sour milk scant I teaspoon Sorfe'hura 1 teaspoon 

Molasses S teaspoon Honey \ teasi)oon 



138 USE AND PEEPAKATION OF FOOD. 

These products vary in acidity and so the amount of soda can only 
be approximated. In substituting a mixed sirup for molasses the 
soda should be omitted and baking powder added. In using soda and 
acid in recipes calling for baking powder, one teaspoon of soda is the 
equivalent of four to five teaspoons of baking powder, providing, of 
course, that tliere is enougii acid present to liberate all the gas it 
contains. 

C. Sponge cakes are the best illustrations of mixtures leavened 
only by mr beaten into egg whites. Each egg white is equivalent in 
leavening power to one-half teaspoon of baking powder. In the case 
of butter cakes the baking powder can be decreased by this much for 
every beaten egg white added. 

D. Steam can not be substituted for other methods of leavening. 
It is only applicable under special conditions. 

4. Influence of type of leiivening agent on temperature of baking: 



Degrees. 



'€Utigrade. Fahi'enheit. 



A . Baldnct-powder mixtures , hot oven 

B. Sodasime as baking powder 

. Mixturesleavened witii air, low tem perature 

D. Mixturesleavened with steam, high at first, then lower. 

E. Combination of steam with air as in butter cakes 



225 

225 

175 

240-250 

190-200 



437 

437 

347 

464-482 

374-392 



METHOD OF DEVELOPING LABOHATORY WOKK. 

The points stressed should depend upon the interests of the women 
present. In general, they will be most interested in examples of the 
different methods of leavening selected to illustrate the principles of 
substitution. The following are suggested : 

Cream puffs to illustrate use and handling of steam. I^ave illus- 
ti-ation of air as leavening agent to cake lessons. Have batters and 
doughs prepared Avith sour milk, changing reci]3es from use of bak- 
ing powder to use of soda and sour milk. Calculate amount of soda 
necessary and determine whether or not additional baking powder is 
necessar}^ 

Gingerbread gives a good opportunity for the use of soda with an 
acid sirup, and Boston brown bread will illustrate the use of a com- 
bination of sour milk and molasses. 

Yeast as leavening is given in next lesson. If the women are in- 
terested in baking powders, different types may be provided for 
study. These should be compared as to price, amount recommended 
for use on the package, action in cold and on heating, and whether 
or not its use gives a distinctive taste to the product. 



USB AND PREPAEATION OF FOOD. 139 

ii- 

CBEAM PUFFS. 

Butter, I cup. 2 eggs. 

Hot water, i cup. Flour, J cup. 

Add the hot water to the butter, and when boiling add the flour and beat 
\ igorously. As soon as the Ingredients are well blended, remove from the fire. 
Add the unbeaten eggs, one at a time, and beat the mixture until smooth. Drop 
by tablespoonfuls onto a buttered pan and shape into a circle a little raised in 
the center. Bake 30 minutes in a moderate o\en. 

MOLASSES GINGERBREAD. 

Sour milk, 1 cup. Ginger, 2 teaspoons. 

M()la.>^ses, 1 cup. Baking soda, 1 teaspoon. 

Fat. 2 tablespoons. Cinnamon, 1 tea.spoon. 

Flour, 2* cups. Salt. 

Mix the dry ingredients. IMix the sour nulk and molasses and add the dry 
ingredients to them. Melt and add the fat. Beat thoroughly and pour into 
a shallow greased pan. Bake 20 nnnutes in a moderate oven. 

BOSTON BKOWN HRKAD. 

Rye meal, 1 cup. Molasses, i cup. 

Corn meal, 1 cup. Baking soda, 2 teaspoons. 

Gi-aham flour, 1 cup. Cream of tartar, 2 teaspoons. 

Sour milk, 2 cups. Salt, f teaspoon. 

Mix the dry ingredients. Mix the sour milk and molasses and add the dry 
ingredients to them. Mix well. Turn into greased pans and steam four hours. 
Ilemove from the pans and dry in the oven. 



Lesson G. Yeast Breads. 

AIM, 

To give the principles involved in the making of yeast bread and 
to show possible variations in ingredients. 

POINTS TO BE BROUGHT OUT. 

1. Ingredients used in yeast bread : 

A. The necessary ingredients used in yeast bread are liquid, yeast, 
and flour. Other ingredients usually added are salt, fat, and sugar, 
or other sweetening. 

(1) The liquid used may be milk, water, milk and water 
mixed, potato water, cereal water, whey, or buttermilk. If milk 
is used it should first be scalded and cooled to prevent it from 
souring during the bread-making process. Buttermilk gives a 
distinctive flavor to the bread and the lactic acid present makes 
the loaf white and tender and lessens the time the bread requires 
to rise. 



140 USE AND PEEPARATION OF FOOD. 

(2) Tlie yeast used in bread is made up of a large number of 
tiny plants, Avliicli g•l■o^Y and multiply in the dougli and form the 
gas vrhieli causes the bread to rise. 

(a) Compressed yeast contains active yeast plants, which 
grow quickly, but it spoils rapidly and must be kept in a 
cool i^lace or purchased fresh each time bread is made. 

(h) Dry yeast can be kept indefinitely, but the yeast plants 
are in a less active form and begin to grow only after they 
have been supplied with food and water. Bread made with 
this type of yeast does not rise so quickly unless the yeast 
is first mixed into a sponge and left a few hours until the 
yeast plants begin to grow rapidly. 

(c) Liquid yeast is an active form grown at home in a 
specially prepared mixture, which may or may not contain 
hops. It may be allowed to ferment spontaneously or may 
be inoculated with fresh or dried yeast. The latter is a safer 
method. It will keep for several weeks in a cool place. 

(3) Salt is added for flavor. Too much salt will retard the 
action of the yeast. 

(-I) Fat may be entirely omitted, if preferred. A small 
amount of lard or vegetable oil is usually added to the dough 
for tenderness. Fat rubbed over the crust after baking makes it 
more tender, 

(5) Sugar is used for flavor and to hasten the growth of the 
3^east. Sirup may be used in place of sugar. 
. (6) Flour.— 

(a) Wheat flour is most desirable for making yeast bread 
because it alone of all cereals contains two proteins which 
form an elastic substance called gluten, when the flour is 
worked with water, as in the process of making dough. 
Gluten is the substance which enables the dough to stretch 
in rising and to hold its shape when baked. The amount 
and quality of the gluten vary with the kind of wheat and 
the method of milling. Hard or spring wheat usually is 
higher in gluten than soft or winter wheat, and is there- 
fore preferred for making yeast bread. Rye contains one of 
the proteins necessary to form gluten, but it will not make 
so large nor so light a loaf. 

(b) Other materials may be used in yeast bread if com- 
bined with enough wheat flour to furnish the necessary 
gluten. Such materials are : 

(1) Cereals. — Corn, barley, rice, feterita, rye, oats, 
Kafir, milo. 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 141 

(2) Fruits, vegetables, and legumes. — Peanuts, sweet 
potatoes, buckwheat, taro, potatoes, beans, tapioca, 
banana. 

(c) Forms in which other materials may be added: 

(1) As a flour or fine meal, mixed with the wheat 
flour. 

(2) Cooked or scalded and cooled. This method is 
used with coarse meals or whole grains. In making 
the bread, allowance must be made for the liquid ab- 
sorbed. 

(3) Cooked and mashed to a pulp. This metliod is 
used for vegetables and for legumes. Allowance must 
be made for water absorbed in cooking, as mentioned 
above. 

(d) Amount of other materials which may be added : 

(1) A substitution of 25 per cent or less of other ma- 
terials produces a loaf of standard lightness and only 
slightly smaller than an all-wheat loaf. 

(2) A substitution of as much as 50 per cent pro- 
duces a small heavy loaf, but with a good flavor. More 
than this amount of substitution is not satisfactory ex- 
cept in skilled hands. 

(3) If cooked cereal, vegetable, or legumes are added, 
no more than 25 per cent should be used, else the bread 
will be soggy. 

(e) Method of measuring substitute flours oj meals — Since 
the different flours and meals absorb different amounts of 
liquid they should be substituted for wheat flour not cup by 
cup, but on the basis of weight and composition. (See table 
in previous lesson.) 

2. Methods of mixing yeast bread : 

A. Sponge method; long or overnight process (12 to 16 hours). — 
The yeast (if dry or compressed) is softened in a small amount of 
the liquid, which should be lukewarm, and combined W'ith the sugar, 
the remaining liquid, and one-half the flour (or less) to make a soft 
batter. In the morning the fat, salt, and remaining flour are added, 
the dough kneaded well to develop the gluten and bring the yeast in 
contact with all the flour. The dough is allowed to rise to twice its 
bulk, kneaded, allowed to rise again, molded into loaves, and Avhen 
risen to twice its bulk, baked. 

B. Sponge method; short process (6 to 8 hours). — By doubling 
the amount of yeast and proceeding as above the time may be re- 
duced one-half. 



142 USE AKD PEEPAEATION OF FOOD. 

C. Straight dough method; long process (12 to 16 hours). — The 
yeast is softened in a small amount of the liquid; then all the in- 
gredients are combined at once to form a dough. The kneading and 
rising are carried on as in A. 

D. Straight dough method; short process (6 to 8 hours). — Double 
the amount of yeast and proceed as in C. 

3. Importance of correct temperature. — Since the yeast is a i)lant, 
it grows best at a warm temperature, about 27° to 30° C. (80° to 
86° F.), and for best results this temperature should be maintained 
throughout the process. If allowed to oa erheat, the bread will have 
heavy streaks in it. If allowed to chill, the action of the yeast is 
retarded. 

4. Baking. — The temperature of the oven for baking should be 
218° C. (425° F.) at first to check the rising, then lowered to 193° C. 
(380° F.) until the bread is cooked through. A loaf of average size 
requires about 50 minutes. If baked in single pans the loaves will be 
more evenly baked and more uniform in shape. 

5. Special points in mixing and baking breads containing wheat 
substitutes : 

A. A larger amount of yeast should be used. Wlien yeast action 
is slow, certain products are formed, the exact nature of which is not 
known, which tend to break down the gluten. Where the amount 
of gluten is small, as in breads containing wheat substitutes, the 
rising should be hastened, so that the bread can be baked before the 
gluten is affected. 

B. Breads containing wheat substitutes should be made up stiffer 
than are all-wheat doughs. If necessary, additional flour should be 
added to give the desired consistency. 

C. Bread containing substitutes should be thoroughly baked. Rye 
bread requires a longer baking at a lower temperature than breads 
made with other substitutes. 

6. Care of bread after baking. — Loaves should be placed where 
air can circulate freely around them until they are thoroughly 
cooled. Wrapping bread while warm tends to spoil flavor, and may 
cause mold since the wrapping holds in moisture. 

7. Food values of yeast bread. — Bread made from patent wheat 
fxour yields about 1,200 c^ilories a pound. There is little difference in 
the nutritive value of bread made from wheat flour and bread con- 
taining other flours, provided the flours have been milled by the same 
process. Bread containing flours made from the whole grain furnish 
a much larger amount of mineral matter than bread made from the 
more refined flour. 

8. Economical use of bread.— Economy should be practiced in 
the use of bread. This wdll include : 



USE AND PREPAEATION OF FOOD. 143 

A. Care in making, to produce a loaf of the best quality and 
thereby avoid the waste that occurs when a poor quality of bread is 
made or served. 

B. Care in serving, that when an abundance of starchy vegetables 
or cereals in some other form is served, little or no bread is used. 

C. Care of left-over breads, crusts, or crumbs. They may be dried 
in the oven, ground or crushed and kept for use in puddings, dress- 
ings for meat, poultrj', or fish, griddle cakes or muffins, escalloped 
dishes, or croquettes. 

METHOD or DEVELOPING LABORATORY W^ORK. 

Since it is difficult to condense the continuous bread-making process 
into a laboratory period, a loaf of bread should be started before- 
hand, either by the teacher or by a member of the class. When the 
class meets, the setting of the sponge and the first kneading should 
be demonstrated, then the dough prepared beforehand may be 
kneaded, placed in the pans, raised, and baked. In this way all 
stages of the process will be clearly shown. The bread started in 
class may be taken home by one of the women to be baked later. 

Tlie standard proportions given below should be used. Either 
straight dough or sponge method may be demonstrated. Suggest 
home methods of controlling temperature for bread (hot water, 
sponge box, fireless cooker, etc. ) . Stress the importance of care and 
cleanliness as aflPecting the quality and flavor of bread. 

For home work, each woman may be asked to bake a loaf of 
bread under home conditions and bring it to class for criticism. 
The use of a score card in comparing the different loaves will be of 
assistance in establishing a standard. 

STAND AED PROPORTIONS FOR ONE LOAF OF BREAD. 

Liquid, 1 cup. Flour, 3 to 4 cups. 

Salt, 1 teaspoon. Yeast, i cake compressed or i cup 

Fat, 1 tablespoon or less. liquid yeast. 

Sugar, 1 tablespoon. 

Note: The amount of yeast given is for the short, straight dough process. 
When liquid yeast is used, the amount of liquid given for the bread should be 
reduced to f cup. 

WHOLE WHEAT OR GRAHAM BREAD. 

Liquid, IJ cups. Whole wheat or Graham flour, 3 cups. 

Salt, 1 teaspoon. Yeast, * cake compressed or i cup 

Sugar, 1 tablespoon. liquid yeast. 

POTATO BREAD. 

Irish potatoes cooked and mashed Sugar, 1 tablespoon. 

or riced, 1 cup. Flour, 2^ cups. 

Liquid, i cup. Yeast, i cake compressed or I cup 

Salt, 1^ teaspoons. liquid yeast. 



144 USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 



BYE BKEAD. 



Use the standard proportion, substituting 2J cups wheat flour and 2^ cups 
rye flour for the amount of wheat flour given. 



WHOLE WHEAT A^TD COEN FEOL'R BREAD. 



Use the standard proportions, substituting 1| cups wheat flour, If cups v.-hole 
wlieat flour, and § cup corn flour for the amount of wlieat flour given. 



Lesson 7. Sakdwiches. 

AIM. 

To teacli the women liow to prepare sandwiches suitable for dif- 
ferent occasions. 

POINTS TO BE BROUGHT OUT. 

1. Definition. — A sandAvich is a combination of a cover, usually 
bread, with a filling of meat, vegetable, fruits, etc. It is usually 
prepared so that it can be eaten without the use of a knife, fork, 
or spoon. For this reason it is especially desirable for the buffet 
meal or the lunch which must be carried from home, 

2. Cover portion. — Any kind of bread may be used as cover and 
variet}^ mux be introduced in the sandwiches by choice of different 
kinds, as Graham, whole wheat, brown bread, or even cake with 
the sweet sandwiches. As a rule the bread used for sandwiches 
should be at least 24 hours old, so that it can be cut thinly without 
crumbling. 

3. Fillings. — The fillings which may be used are many. They 
should not be too moist or the bread will become soggy and un- 
palatable. A thin layer of fat over the bread before adding the 
filling helps to prevent this. 

A. Protein-rich sandwiches: 

(1) Meat, sliced or minced. In both cases it should be well 
seasoned. 

(2) Cheese, sliced or cheese paste. 

(3) Nuts, chopped or ground. 

(4) Beans. — Buns filled with hot baked beans have proved to 
be favorites in some school lunchrooms. 

(5) Fish, as smoked salmon, sardines, salmon. 

B. Salad sandwiches: 

(1) Lettuce, usually combined with ma3'onnaise. Nuts may 
be used also. 

(2) Celery. 

(3) Cress. 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 145 

(4) Tomato. If bread is spread with mayonnaise and pro- 
tected with lettuce • leaves it is not made soggy by the use of 
tomato. 

(5) Cucumber. 

C. Sweet or dessert sandwiches : 

(1) Dried fruits ground to paste and combined with honey. 
Nuts ma.y or may not be used. 

(2) Marmalades, jellies, and jams. 

(3) Fudge poured over crisp crackers and two placed to- 
gether. 

(4) Marguerites. 

(5) Sweet chocolate melted to paste and spread over bread. 
4. Handling. — Slice bread thinly and neatly. Do not remove 

crust. Wrap in oil paper or slightly dampened cloth to keep bread 
from becoming dry. 

METHOD OF DEVELOriNG LABORATORY WORK. 

Have the women prepare typical sandwiches, suggesting those 
especially adapted for different uses, as the child's lunch, the hus- 
band's lunch pail, Sunday night supper, or the afternoon tea. Em- 
phasize the kinds especially adapted to the needs of the women in 
the class. Combine these in the school child's lunch, the business 
girl's lunch, the man's lunch pail, and criticize the combinations and 
amounts desirable. (Do they form a well-balanced meal?) Sug- 
gest dishes that might be added to the lunch taken from home and 
if possible have some of these prepared and shown. Each woman 
might be asked to work on the lunch problem she has to meet in her 
home and report her results in class. 



Lesson 8. Cakes and Cookies. 



AIM. 

To teach the principal points involved in making cakes and cookies, 
and to shoAv the possible variations in the ingredients used. 

rOINTS TO BE BROUGHT OUT. 

1. Typ^s of cakes: 
A. Sponge cakes — • 

(1) True sponge cakes contain no fat and no liquid except that 

present in the eggs and flavoring, and no leavening agent except 

the air which is incorporated into them by means of the beaten 

eggs. They contain equal measures of eggs, flour, and sugar 

128209°— 19 10 



146 USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 

(or tlie equivalent in other sweetener), and usually have a small 
amount of lemon juice added for flavoring and for tenderness. 

(2) Variations: 

(a) A true sponge cake contains the whole egg yolks and 
wdiites in equal proportions. 

(h) Sunshine cake is a sponge cake containing more 
whites than yokes of eggs. 

(c) Angel cake is a sponge cake containing only whites of 
eggs. The lemon juice is omitted and a teaspoon of cream 
of tartar is used instead. The w^ater contained in the addi- 
tional whites of eggs takes the place of the liquid furnished 
by the lemon juice. 

(3) Cheap sponge cake is made by omitting a part of the eggs 
and adding for each egg omitted two tabiespoonfuls of w^ater 
and one-half teaspoon of baking pow^der. Any number of 
eggs up to one-half the total amount may be omitted. 

(4) Method of combining sponge cakes. — Since the leavening 
agent is the air beaten into the egg whites, the other ingredients 
are combined first and the beaten egg whites folded in last, 
handling as little as possible, so the air will be retained. 

(5) Method of baking. — Since sponge cakes are leavened by 
air, they should be baked slowly at a low temj)erature. (See 
Lesson 5.) 

B. Butter cakes: 

(1) Butter cakes differ from sponge cakes in that they con- 
tain a liquid, fat, and a leavening agent, usually baking powder, 
besides the eggs, flour, and sugar. The proportions of the in- 
gredients vary according to the sweetness, texture, richness, and 
size of the cake desired. 

(2) Variations: 

(a) The liquid used may be either milk or water or both. 
For an average-sized cake containing three cups of flour, 
from three-fourths to one cup of liquid is used. 

(h) The fat used may be butter or butter substitute, lard, 
compound, poultry fat, or vegetable oil. The amount varies 
from one-fourth cup to one cup, depending on the richness 
desired. As the amount of fat is increased the liquid is 
decreased. 

(c) One to tw^o cups sW'P'ar may be used. Other sweeteners 
may take the place of the sugar. (See Unit VIII, Lesson 3.) 

(d) The eggs used vary from one to four whole eggs, or 
the equivalent in either whites or yolks. The number of eggs 
used affects the size and the nutritive value of the cake. 

(e) The amount of four used in a cake of standard size is 
three cups. The kind may be either wheat flour, part wheat 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 147 

flour and part substitutes (see Unit YII, Lesson 3), or all 
substitutes. The egg used in cakes acts as a binder and can 
take the place of the gluten in the wheat flour. For delicate, 
rich cakes the minimum amount of substitute flour should 
bo used. The maximum amount may be used in plain cakes 
or cookies where texture is not important. Rice, corn, or 
oat flours may be used in white cakes where flavor is im- 
portant. Barley, rye, or buckwheat flour are suitable for 
chocolate or spice cakes where the color is not important and 
the flavor is covered by other ingredients. Peanut flour 
is especially desirable for cookies on account of its flavor. 

(/) Chocolate, spices, nuts, or raisins may be added for 
variety. 
(3) Methods of combining: 

(a) Usual method. — The fat and sugar are creamed, the 
beaten 3'olks of the eggs added, and the liquid and flour 
added alternately. The beaten whites of the eggs are folded 
in last. • 

(h) The quick method. — The eggs are slightly beaten to- 
gether, the liquid and sugar added, then ^the flour. The 
melted fat is added last, and the batter is well beaten. A 
cake mixed by this method is not so large as in method (1), 
but the texture is as good. The size may be increased by 
adding an additional teaspoonful of baking powder to take 
the place of the air incorporated in the beaten egg white. 

(c) Combination method. — Mix as in (2), reserving the 
egg whites and adding them, well beaten, at the last. This 
method produces a cake as large as (1) with as good texture, 
and requires less time in mixing. 
C. Cookies: 

(1) Cookies may be made like a butter cake, either plain or 
rich, and varied by adding chocolate, spices, nuts, fruit, or sim- 
ilar ingredients. They may be classed as : 

(a) Drop cookies, in which the consistency of the batter 
is such that it may be dropped by spoonfuls on a tin and 
baked. 

(b) Roll cookies, in which the amount of liquid is de- 
creased until a stiff dough is obtained, 

2. Economical use of cakes and cookies: 

A. Cakes and cookies are foods with high fuel value. This fact 
should be considered in serving them, so that they will furnish a 
real part of the meal and not be eaten in addition to a meal which is 
already sufficiently heavy. 

B. Left-over cake may be served with fruit, sauce, or with custards 
or crushed into crumbs and used in puddings. 



148 USE AND PKEPARATIOiSr OF FOOD. 

METHOD OF DEVELOPING LABORATORY WORK. 

Use standard recipes or have the women bring recipes from home 
and reduce them to the basis of three cups of flour, so that they 
will see how little variation there really is in the different propor- 
tions usually found in recipe books; either these recipes or the 
ones below may be demonstrated. See Unit V, Lesson 2, for sug- 
gestions as to the use of fat, and Unit VIII, Lesson 3, for the use 
of sirups in cakes and cookies. Have one recipe demonstrated, using 
the three methods of combining given in B (3) and let the women 
compare the results as to (1) time required for mixing, (2) texture, 
(3) size of cake. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

4 eggs. Wheat flour, 1 cup. 

Sugar, 1 cup. Salt, i teaspoon. 

PLAIN EUTTER CAKE. 

Sugar, i cup. ^ 3 eggs. 

Fat, h cup. * Wlieat flour, 3 cups. 

Milk, i cup. Baking powder, 5 teaspoons. 

Salt, ^ teaspoon. Vanilla, 1 teaspoon. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Fat, i cup. Wheat flour, 3 cups. 

Sugar, l-h cups. Chocolate, 2 squares. 

Three eggs. Vanilla, 1 teaspoon. 

Milk, f cup. Salt, * teaspoon. . 
Baking powder, 6 teaspoons. 

SPICE CAKE, 

Fat, f cup. Cinnamon, 1 teaspoon. 

Sugar, 14 cups. Allspice, 1 teaspoon. 

Three eggs. Wheat flour, 3 cups. 

Milk, f cup. Vanilla, 1 teaspoon. 

Baking powder, G teaspoons. Salt, 1 teaspoon. 
Cloves, i teaspoon. 

CIIOCOLATE-NVT COOKIES. 

Sugar, i cup. W^heat flour, 1 cup. 

Honey, 2 tablespoons. Baking powder, 1 teaspoon. 

Chocolate, 2 squares. Vanilla, 1 teaspoon. 

Nuts, i cup. Salt, i teaspoon. 

Jlix and drop by spoonfuls on greased baking sheets. 

PEANUT WAFEPvS. 

Graham flour, 2 cups. Sugar, £ cup. 

Crushed peanuts, li cups. Fat, 2 tablespoons. 

Baking powder, 2 teaspoons. Salt, 1 teaspoon. 

One egg. 

If necessary, add milk to make a stiff dough. Roll thin, cut, and bake in a 
fairly hot oven. 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 149 

CORN FLOI^R COCONUT COOKIES. 

Fat, i cup. Wheat flour, li cups, and corn flour, 

Salt, i teaspoon. tj cups; or 3 cups wlieat flour. 

Sugar, i cup. Baking i)o\vder, 2 teaspoons. 

Milk, 2 tablespoons. 

REFERENCES. 

United States Department of Agriculture: 

Farmers' Bulletin 807. Bread and Bread Making in the Home. 

P"'armers' Bulletin 955. Use of Wheat Flour Substitutes in Baking. 

Farmers' Balletiu 5G5. Cornmeal as a Food : Ways of Using it. 

Farmers' Bulletin 817. How to Select Food: 11, Cereal Foods. 

Farmers' Bulletin 249. Cereal Breakfast Foods. 

Farmers' Bulletin 559. Use of Corn, Kafir, and Cowpeas in the Home. 

Farmers' Bulletin 298. Food Value of Corn and Corn Products. 

Circular 110. Use Peanut Flour to Save Wheat. 

Circular 111. Use Barley to Save Wheat. 

Circular 113. Use Soy-Beau Flour to Save Wheat. 

Circular 119. Use Rice Flour to Save Wheat. 

Circular 117. Use Corn Meal and Corn Flour to Save Wheat. 
United States Food Leaflets. (These leaflets are no longer available for dis- 
tribution.) 

No. 2. Do You Know Corn Meal? 

No. 6. Do You Know Oatmeal? 

No. 18. Rice. 

No. 19. Hominy. 



UNIT VIII. 

Sugar and Sweets. 

GENERAL INFORMATION. 

The sugar bowl has returned to the table. During its absence 
there was much discussion of sugar, the reasons for the shortage, 
its real place in the diet, and possible substitutes. It seems worth 
while to review this material to see what lessons may have been 
learned that will be of value in normal times. 

1. The use of sugar was restricted because there was a reduced 
supply as the result of : 

A. The actual decreased production of beet sugar, which is largely 
produced in the countries which were at war. Most of the sugar 
factories of France were destroj^ed. 

B. The loss of sugar by submarine sinkings. 

C. The lack of available tonnage for the transportation of cane 
sugar, 

2. Sugar restrictions have been removed because of : 

A. An accumulation of sugar as a result of war-time restrictions. 

B. The availability of this year's crops of cane and beet sugar. 

C. Cessation of submarine sinkings. 

D. Increasing availability of stocks of sugar in Cuba, Java, and 
elsewhere, as ships can be spared to transport them. 

E. The continued short sugar ration among European nations. 
There is not enough sugar in the world to supply everyone with 
unlimited amounts. At present European nations prefer to use 
their share of available tonnage for. other foods, especially fat. 

3. Our storage facilities are limited, so for the present it seems 
best to eat more sugar and thus save fats for export. The use of 
other sweeteners is especially helpful in that it utilizes local, more 
quickly available supplies. 

4. During the period of sugar shortage we found that: 

A. Sugar is not an essential article of diet — 

(1) The energy which it contains may be supplied equally 
well by other foods. 

(2) Sugar is valuable as a source of flavor, which makes our 
food more attractive, and so is a psychological factor in the 
diet. This sweet flavoring may be supplied equally well from 
sirups and dried fruits. 

B. The use of other sweeteners offers a real contribution to the 
diet in the variety of texture and flavor obtained by their use. 

150 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 



151 



C. The liigh prewar consumption of sugar was due to the fol- 
lowing reasons : 

(1) It is a cheap and easily available source of energy. 

(2) Its flavor is pleasing. 

D. Too large a sugar and candy consumption is not desirable. 

(1) Sugar is absorbed very quickly and so blunts the appe- 
tite for more solid food. For this reason sweets should not be 
served at the beginning of the meal, ii'ruit cocktails should 
not be too sweet. 

(2) Sugar furnishes energy but no building material. This 
is especially bad when cliildren eat sugar to the exclusion of 
more valuable foods. Most of the sirups and dried fruits con- 
tain mineral constituents along with the sugar and so are more 
desirable in the diet. 

5. Fonns of sugar which appear in foods. — The common use of 
the word " sugar " refers to commercial cane or beet sugar. We 
do not need to rely on it as our only source of sugar, for many foods 
contain different forms of sugar which can just as well be used by 
the body as a source of energy. 

Forms of sugar found in many foods. 



Name. 



Source. 



Sucrose 

Maltose 

Lactose 

Glucose' (also called dextrose or grape sugar) 
Fructose (also called levulose or fruit sugar) . . 
Invert sugar 

Dextrin— a substance similar to sugar 



Cane, sugar beet , or maple: the usual form of sugar 

for household use. 
Sugar found in malted grains. 
Sugar found in milk. 
Found in plants, fruits, and honev. 

Do. 
A mixture of equal parts of glucose and fructose 

formed by the action of heat or acid upon 

sucrose. 
Formed by the action of heat, ferments, or acid 

on starch; foimd in toasted bread, browned 

flour, etc. 



> Commerical glucose is a preparation made by the action of an acid on starch. It contains a mixture 
of maltose, glucose, and dextrin. Corn sirup is made of commercial glucose with the addition of some corn 
or beet sugar to sweeten. 

6. Other sources of sweet flavor. — We eat sugar not so much for 
food value as because we like the flavor. Other sources of sweet 
flavor may be substituted for a part or all of our sugar. 

A. Cereals may be sweetened with dried fruit. 

B. Simps may take the place of sugar in the fruit sauces which 
must be sweetened. The real apple butter contained only the natural 
sugar of the apple juice. 

C. Simple desserts can be sweetened with sirups of dried fruits. 

D. Any craving for sugar or candy can be satisfied with dried- 
fruit confections. An excessive craving for sweets is unnatural and 
may indicate an insufficiency in the general diet. 



152 USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 

7. Candy consumption: 

A. American people have been eating eacli year in candy alone 
enough sugar to supply the sugar requirements, under the war- 
rationing standard, of — - 

England, for one year. 
France, for one year. 
Italy, for two years. 

B. This large consumption of sugar is neither necessary nor desir- 
uhle when the candy takes the place of more necessary foods in 
the diet. 

C. It is interesting to note the candies wdiich were prepared durhig 
the Avar emergency from a minimum of sugar and a maximum of 
ether constituents. They are: 

(1) Chocolate-coated candies with nut or fruit centers or 
centers of any creams. 

(2) Boiled candies, such as lemon drops, stick candy, fruit 
tablets, peanut brittle, glace nuts, sirup taffies, caramels, and 
kisses. 

(3) Marshmallows and similar candies. 

(4) Gum drops and jelly beans. 

D. The best time to eat candy is very soon after a meal. In no 
case should it be eaten before a meal. If the candy given children 
were restricted in amount, kind, and the times of eating it would be 
a less harmful addition to the diet. 

Lesson 1. ]3rit'(lt:s and Ckeam Candies. 

AIJI. 

To show the action of moist and dry heat on granulated sugar. 
points to be brought out. 

1. Food value. — Sugar is a carbohydrate which occurs in many of 
our foods. In granulated sugar we have it in a chemically pure 
form, and may see the changes brought about in it by the action of 
moist and dry heat. 

2. Action of moist and dry heat upon sugar: 

A. When sugar is heated it gives off its water of crystallization 
and melts, forming first a clear mass which hardens on cooking and 
is called barley sugar. If the heating is continued, further changes 
take place, and a substance called caramel is formed. Caramel is 
used as flavoring. 

(1) Brittle candies. — Melt the sugar in an iron pan, stirring 
constantly with the back of a spoon. If lumps .persist place on 
cool part of stove until the whole mass melts. Pour over nuts 
in oiled pan with square edges. 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 153 

(2) Caramel. — Melt small portion of sugar; continue heating 
until the mass darkens. Add hot water to make sirup and put 
aside for flavoring. This is especially desirable for flavoring 
custards and ice creams. 
B. When sugar solutions are boiled, the cane sugar (sucrose) is 
changed into two simpler sugars which do not cr3'stallize so readily. 
This change takes place slowly, but is hastened by the use of an acid. 
Advantage is taken of this fact in preparing sirups for table use from 
cane sugar. If a small amount of acid is added, it will not crystal- 
lize on standing. Acid is also used in making candy from sugar. 

(1) In cream candies, such as fondant and fudges, enough of 
the sugar has been changed into simpler sugars to retard crystal- 
lization and enable it to be controlled to better advantage. In 
these, sugar and water and flavoring with or without acid are 
cooked to the soft ball stage, 113^ C. (235° F.). The mixture is 
then cooled to room temperature, and beaten so as to cause it to 
crystallize rai:>idly in small fine crystals, or so-called " cream." 
Points of caution in making cream cand}' are : 

(a) Time of cooking and amount of acid determine 
amount of sugar changed, so the amount of acid must be 
carefully determined. 

(b) If not enough sugar is changed the candy tends to 
grain. 

(<?) If too much sugar is changed the candy will not 
cream. 

(d) See that all the sugar is dissolved before the solu- 
tion commences to boil. When any sugar crystals form on 
the sides wipe them off, since they dissolve with difficulty in 
the boiling sirup and ma}^ make the candy grain. 

(e) After cooking, pour out to cool. Do not agitate. 
(/) Cool to room temperature before creaming. 

(2) Viscous uncrystallized candies, as caramel, taffy, etc., 
may be made from cane sugar if it is cooked sufficiently long 
with acid to change so much of the sugar that crj-stallization is 
entirely prevented. Points to be remembered in their prepara- 
tion are : 

(a) Be :iuve to use enough acid. 

(5) Avoid unnecessary stirring and agitation. 

(3) Texture candies, such as divinity, in which the cane 
sugar sirup is added to egg white, have the sugar in a creamed 
form. The same precautions must be observed in their cookery 
as in the case of the cream candies above. On account of the 
amount of water in the egg white the sirup is cooked to a greater 
concentration than for cream candies. 



154 USE AND PPvEPARATIOX OF FOOD. 

(4) Cake icings made with sirup and egg white are made 
on the same principles as the texture candies. If the sugar in the 
sirup is not sufficiently changed or if the proper precautions are 
not taken in handling, the icing is grainy. If too much sugar 
is changed in the sirup the icing is sticky and does not harden 
on top. 

METHOD OF DEVELOPING LABORATORY WORK. 

Have the women prepare a representative candy from each of the 
groups. Have recipes brought in for discussion. Classify them on 
basis of the type of candy. 

CHOCOLATE FUDGE. 

Sugar, 2 cups. Chocolate, 2 ounces. 

Milk, f cup. Vanilla, 1 teaspoon. 

Butter, 1 tablespoon. 

Boil together the sugar, chocolate, and milk until the mixture forms a soft 
ball, 114° O. (238° F). Remove from the fire and add the butter. Cool and 
add the vanilla. Stir until the mixture begins to stiffen. Pour into a buttered 
pan and cut into squares. 

PEANUT BRITTLE. 

Sugar, 2 cups. Unroasted peanuts, 1 cup. 

Put peanuts in a buttered shallow pan. Heat sugar slowly over a moderate 
lire, stirring constantly until it is a golden brown. Pour at once over peanuts 
in a thin sheet and mark in squares. 

FONDANT. 

Sugar, 5 cups. Water, 2^ cups. 

Cream of tartar, i teaspoon. 

Boil ingredients to the soft ball stage. To prevent crystallization, wipe 
crystals from the side of the pan as soon as they form. Remove from the fire, 
let stand until cool, then beat until creamy. Turn out onto marble slali or 
large platter and knead until soft and velvety in texture. Let stand 24 hours 
in a covered jar. 

DIVINITY. 

Sugar, 3 cups. Water, i cup. 

Corn sirup, 1 cup. Chopped nuts, 1 cup. 

Whites of 3 eggs. Vanilla, 1 teaspoon. 

Boil sugar, sirup, and water to the crack stage, 127° to 185* O. (260° to 
275° F.). Pour over the beaten whites, beating constantly. As it thickens, 
add the vanilla and nuts. Pour onto a buttered plate and cut into squares or 
drop from spoon. 

SUQAE TAFFY. 

Sugar, 3 cups. Vinegar, I cup. 

Water, 1 cup. Butter, 2 tablespoons. 

Boil without stirring to the brittle stage, 132° C. (270° F.). Pour into but- 
tered plates, and when cool enough to handle pull until white and glossy. Add 
any desired flavoring while pulling. Pull into long thin strips and cut into 
1-inch pieces with scissors. Lay on buttered paper. 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 



155 



MRS. WILSON'S DECOKATIVE AND PLAIN ICING.* 

Whites of 4 eggs. Lemon juice, 1 teaspoon; or 

Sugar, 2^ cups. Baking powder and tartaric acid 

^^'ate^, 1 cup. mixed, i teaspoon. 

Cook sirup until it drops thick from spoon. Have whites beaten stiff and 
smooth with the half cup of sugar. Add sirup to eggs a little at a time, letting 
the last cook until it threads. After beating well, put over pan of hot water 
and add powder. Cook until it piles without sinking, to decorate. Plain 
icing will not require so much cooking. The decorative icing can be beaten 
back smooth with a spoon. Use lemon if preferred to powder. 



Lesson 2. Candies Made from Sirups. 



ai:m. 



To teach ways of using sirups in the home. 

A large amount of sugar reaches the home in the form of sirups. 
These have formerly been used only in the form of a spread on bread 
and cakes. During the sugar shortage the production of sirups was 
stimulated and the supply increased. The production of some of the 
sirups could easily be increased with little extra outlay and expense 
and some can be produced more cheaply than cane sugar. We find 
sirups more desirable for use in certain places than cane sugar. If 
a stead}'' demand for sirups is created, sirups will appear on the 
market at lower prices. 



POINTS TO be brought OUT. 

1. Food value, or the composition of the sirup, showing its total 
sugar content. 

2. Comparative sweetness. 

3. Substitution value on the basis of weight and composition. 

Amovnt of sirup equivalent to one cup of sugar. 



Material. 


Water. 


One cup 
(weight 

In 
grams). 


Solids 
in 1 cup 
(wel;jht 

in 
grams). 


Equivaleni of 1 cup 

of sugar; weight 

in — 




Grams. 


Cups. 




Per cent. 
30 
25 
22 
19.5 


335 
337 
332 
332 


234 
252 
259 
265 


285 
26f> 
258 
250 


(1. 8.5 




.79 




.78 




.75 







On this basis, approximately three-fourths cup of sirup will take 
the place of one cup of sugar. If equal sweetness is desired the 



^From Mrs. Wilson's New Cook Book, 



158 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 



iimount of liquid sweetener must be increased to one cup honey or 
one and two-thirds cups of corn sirup. This is not economical nor 
is it desirable, since we habitually use too much sweetening in foods. 
If sirups are used in recipes where the amount of liquid used is an 
important factor, decrease the liquid three-eighths cup for every 
pound or one-fourth cup for eA^ery cup of liquid sweetener used, 

4. Forms of sugar present in sirups. — The different forms of 
sugar (see Lesson 1) are combined in varying proportions in the 
sirups. The table below shows the kind of sugar which is present 
in tlie largest amount. The form in wdiich the sugar is present is im- 
portant in making candies and cake icing. 



Sirup. 


Forms of sugar present. 


Mfple 


Principally sucrose. 




Approximatelv one-third invert sugar, two- 




thirds sucrose. 
Approximately one-third sucrose, twc-thirds in- 




vert sugar. 
Approximatelv invert su^ar. 




Approximately a mixture of glucose, maltose, 




and dextrin. 
Approximatelv four-fllths commercial glucose, 




one-Iifth sucrcso. 



5. Use of sirups in making candy. — Y\e must bear in mind the 
fact that sucrose must be present in a definite proportion if the candy 
is to cream. The other sugars retard crystallization and prevent it 
entirely if used in too large proportion. When invert sugar is 
added in the form of sirup the acid may be omitted and the cooking 
time shortened by decreasing the proportion of liquid used. 

A. In cream candies, such as fudge, fondant, and divinit}^, at 
least three-fourths of the sugar must be in the form of sucrose 
either dry or. in sirup. (Note the sucrose present in maple sirup.) 
The other sugars retard crystallization. 

B. Uncrystallized candies may be made entirely from the sirups. 
Yvhere sirups have a strong flavor they may be combined with com- 
mercial glucose, which has little flavor, or with cane sugar. The 
only precaution necessary is to be sure tliat enough invert sugar 
is added to prevent graining. 

C. Cake icing must have as much of tlie sugar in the form of 
sucrose as the cream cand3^ Icing may be prepared from corn 
sirup or honey, but it remains sticky on the outside. 



METHOD OF DEVELOPIXG LABORATORY WORK. 

Demonstrate or have the students prepare fondant from maple 
sugar or sirup, using proportion of one cup sugar to one-half cup 
w^ater. If sirup is used, have them calculate the changes necessary 
in proportion. (Sec table, this lesson.) If maple sugar is not avail- 



USE AND PREPAEATIOIT OF FOOD. 157 

able in the cominimity, have students make fudge, using three- 
fourths cup sugar, one-fourth cup sirup (mohisses, sorghum, or glu- 
cose), one square chocolate, one-third cup water. Explain that cream 
candies can not be made entirely from the sirups because sucrose 
(cane, beet, or maple sugar) must be present if the sugar is to crys- 
tallize or cream. Point out that since this type of candy requires 
a large proportion of sugar it should be least used when sugar is 
scarce. 

Select other candies from the group below, choosing the ones in 
which the students are most interested and using the sirujjs available 
in the community. Where individual laboratory work is done the 
various kinds should be prepared, allowing ample opportunity for 
comparison. 

PEANUT OR COCONUT BKITTLE.* 

Sirup, 1 cup. Peanuts or coconut, 1 cup. 

Boil sirup until it begins to darken. Stir in the nuts, pour on an oiled .sheet, 
and cut into squares. 

TAFFY. 

Sirup, 1 cup. Butter substitute, 1 tablespoon. 

Vinegar, 1 tablespoon. Flavoring. 

Boil until the sirup forms a brittle mass in cold water. Pour on an oiled 
platter to cool. Pull quickly, incorporating as much air as possible. 

HONEY CARAMELS. 

(Honey candies are strong in flavor unless the honey is diluted with a flavor- 
less ^irup.) 
Sirup (honey or honey and light sirup). Chocolate, 1 square. 
1 cup. Vanilla, i teaspoon. 

Vinegar, 1 tablespoon. Butter substitute, 2 tablespoons. 

Boil until the sirup will form a firm ball in cold water. Pour into a square- 
edged pan, cut into squares, and wrap each square separately in oiled paper. 



Lessox 3. The Use of Sirups in Cakes and Cookies. 

AIM. 

To show the possibilities of substituting sirups for all or part of 
the sugar in cakes and cookies. 

POINTS TO BE BROUGHT OUT. 

1. When sirups are used in place of sugar in making cakes, the 
batter is heavier and requires more baking powder to raise. The 
texture is not so good as when all sugar is used. 



158 "USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 

2. In making plain cakes and cookies, where the texture is less 
iniI)ortant, sirups may take the place of all the sugar. In richer 
cakes, where the texture is more delicate, one-half the sugar may be 
replaced by sirup. 

3. Sirup should be substituted for sugar in cakes and cookies on 
the basis of sugar content rather than sweetening power. With the 
sweeter sirups the product Avill be sufficiently sweet. With the less 
sweet sirups, one-half sugar may be used for the flavor. (See table, 
Lesson 2.) 

4. When sirup is used in cakes or cookies, the amount of liquid 
should be reduced one-fourth cup for every cup of sirup used. 

5. Use strong-flavored, dark-colored sirup in spice or chocolate 
cake, reserving the light or more flavorless sirups for the more deli- 
cate cakes. 

6. Some of the sirups, such as sorghum or honey, contain organic 
acids which may be used with soda as a means of leavening the mix- 
ture. 

7. Dried fruits may be used to furnish a part of the sweetening in 
cakes and cookies. 

METHOD OF DEVELOPING LABORATORY WORK. 

Have the students bring in the recipes they are accustomed to use 
at home, selecting those containing the smaller amount of fat. Let 
the students change these recipes according to the above suggestions, 
and have the cakes prepared at home or in the laboratory. The 
following recipes may be used for supplementary class work. Honey 
is more expensive than sugar, but the following recipes, which call 
for honey, may be used in communities where it is practicable. If 
honey is not available, other sirups or sugar can be used in place of 
the honey, using amounts given in table in Lesson 2. 

SORGHUM GINGERBREAD. 

Sorghum, 1 cup. Baking powder, 1 teaspoon. 

Fat, i cup. Ginger, 1^ teaspoons. 

Flour, 2* cups. Cinnamon, 2 teaspoons. 

Sour milk* 1 cup. Allspice, 1 teaspoon. 
Soda, 1 teaspoon. 

TEA CAKES. 

Flour, 2 cups. Raisins, 1 cup. 

Fat, i cup. Sirup, § cup. 

Baking powder, 1^ teaspoons. 1 egg. 

Milk or water, f cup. 

Bake in muffin rings in a medium oven. 



1 Sweet milk may be used for sour milk by using J teaspoon soda and 2 teaspoons bak- 
ing powder. 



USE AND PKEPAKATION OF FOOD. 159 

BUTTEB HONEY CAKES, 

Honey, 1| cups. Soda, 1^ teaspoons. 

Butter, i cup. 8 eggs. 

Flour, 5 cups. Cinnamon, 2 teaspoons. 

Salt, i teaspoon. 

Orange-flower water, 2 tablespoons. 

(Water may be substituted.) 

Rub together the honey and butter; add the unbeaten yolks and beat thor- 
oughly. Add the flour sifted with the cinnamon and salt, and the soda dis- 
solved In the orange-flower water. Beat the mixture thorouglily and add the 
well-beaten whites of the eggs. Bake in shallow tins and cover with frosting 
made as follows : 

ORANGE FKOSTINQ FOR BUTTER HONEY CAKI5. 

Grated rind 1 orange. 1 egg yolk. 

Lemon juice, 1 teaspoon. Confectioners' sugar. 

Orange juice, 1 tablespoon. 

Mix all the ingredients but the sugar and allow the mixture to stand for an 
hour. Strain and add confectioners' sugar until the frosting is sufficiently 
thick to be spread on the cake. 

HONEY SPONGE CAKE. 

Sugar, ^ cup. 4 eggs. 

Honey, i cup. Flour, 1 cup. 

Mix the sugar and honey and boil until the sirup will spin a thread when ' 
dropped from the spoon. Pour the sirup over the yolks of the eggs, which 
have been beaten until light. Beat this mixture until cold ; add the flour and 
cut and fold the beaten egg whites into the mixture. Bake for 40 or 50 minutes 
in a pan lined with buttered paper in a slow oven, 

HONEY POUND CAKE. 

A good pound cake can be made by using equal weights of honey, sugar, eggs, 
flour, and butter, A little soda should be added because of the acidity of the 
honey, and a good flavoring is cardamom seed and orange-flower water. Or a 
cake similar to pound cake may be made as follows : 

Sugar, 1 cup. Powdered cardamom seed, i teaspoon. 

Honey, | cup. Orange-flower water, ^ teaspoon. 

Butter, 1 cup. Soda, i teaspoon. 

Pastry flour, 2 cups. 4 eggs. 

Rub together the butter and sugar and add the honey. Add the well-beaten 
yolks of eggs. Finally add the egg whites, beaten to a stiff froth, and the 
orange-flower water. Add gradually the flour, sifted with the soda and carda- 
mom seed. Beat the mixture 10 minutes. Put the dough into a warm tin with 
high sides aud bake one hour in a slow oven. 



160 USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 

HONEY FRUIT CAKE. 

Honej', 3* cups. Vauilla, 2 teaspoons. 

Butter, 1 cup. Seeded raisins, 3 pounds. 

Flour, 3 cups. Currants, 1* pounds. 

6 eggs. Citron, 1 pound. 

Soda, 2 teaspoons. Candied cherries, 1 pound. 

Cinnamon, 2 teaspoons. Candied apricots, 1 pound. 

Sour jelly or wliite grape juice, * cup. Candied pineapple, 1 pound. 
Ginger, 2 teaspoons. Candied orange peel, 2 ounces. 

Ground cardamom seed, 3 teaspoons. Candied lemon peel, 2 ounces. 
Cloves, 2 teaspoon. 

Cut all the candied fruit except the cherries into small pieces. Place the 
fruit in a large dish and sift over it one-half the flour, mixing thoroughlj-. 
Sift the soda with the i-emaining flour. Bring the honey and the butter to the 
boiling point and while still hot add the spices. "When the mixture is cool, 
add the well-beaten yolks of the eggs, then the flour and grape juice or jelly, 
and the well-beaten whites. Finally, add the fruit. Divide doiigh into three 
or four parts and put into buttered tins covered with buttered paper tied 
loosely over the top. Steam for five hours, remove the paper, and bake in a 
very slow oven for an hour. 

HOMEY COOKIES. 

Honey, § cup. Cloves, 1 teaspoon. 

Sugar, f cup. Soda, I teaspoon. 

Flour, 2i cups. Cinnamon ,1^ teaspoons. 

Walnut meats, finely chopped, ^ pound. Cloves, 1 teaspoon. 

Candied orange peel, finely chopped. Allspice, 1 teaspoon. 

2 ounces. 

Sift together the flour, spices, soda, and add the other ingredients. Knead 
thoroughly, roll out thin, and cut with a biscuit cutter. These cookies are 
very hard. 



Lesson 4. Gelatin Desserts. 

AIM. - 

To teach the use of gelatin in tlie preparation of desserts. 

POINTS TO BE BROUGHT OUT. 

1. Gehitin is a protein which dissolves in hot water and sets on 
cooling to form a clear jelly-like mass. The ainomit of gelatin re- 
quired in order to have the solution set is so small that it in itself 
is negligible in food value. It is of value, in that it furnishes an 
attractive way of serving other food ingredients. The food value 
of the gelatin desserts depends mainly upon the ingredients added. 

2. Forms in which obtained : 

A. Sheet gelatin is prepared in very thin sheets, which dissolve 
readily if stirred in water at boiling temperature. This is sold in 
pound pacivages and is the cheapest form avr.ilable. It is not often 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 161 

used by the housewife, for she finds the small measured trade pack- 
ages more convenient. 

B. Granulated or pulverized gelatins are usually sold in packages 
measured so as to contain the amount necessary to thicken a quart of 
liquid. These dissolve very readily in hot water after soaking in 
cold. 

C. Acidulated gelatins are sometimes sold. In these a poAvdered 
acid is combined with the gelatin and serves to flavor it. Such gela- 
tins are never as desirable, from point of view of flavor or dietetic 
value, as those flavored with natural fruit juices, and are especially 
to be avoided with any of the desserts using milk since the acid 
causes the milk to curdle. 

3. Typical gelatin desserts: 

A. Plain gelatin is made from water sweetened and flavored with 
fruit juice, with enough gelatin added to set the mixture. 

B. Snoia is a plain gelatin, to which well-beaten egg wdiite is 
added just before it sets to give a spongy texture to the mixture. 

C. Spanish cream is a custard set with gelatin, to which beaten 
egg white is added to give a spongy texture. 

D. Bavarian cream is a custard mixture set with gelatin, to which 
whipped cream is added. 

E. Charlotte rvsse is a cream mixture set w^ith gelatin, to which is 
added whipped cream or whipped cream and beaten egg white. 

4. Method of combining: 

Note. — The proportion of gelatin to liquid varies under different conditions. 
In general, the following proportions are used : 

Gelatin : Liquid : 

1 ounce. li to 2 quarts water. 

1^ ounces. 1^ to 2 quarts in hot milk. 

1^ ounces. 1^ to 2 quarts if fruit, vegetables, 

or nuts are used. 

A. Soak the gelatin in cold water. If sheet gelatin is used, it may 
be added directly to the hot liquid. 

B. Prepare the liquid, sweeten, but do not flavor. Heat and pour 
over the soaked gelatin. Be sure that the combined liquid plus any 
added for flavor or to be combined after beating is taken into account 
in estimating the amcnmt of gelatin to be used. 

C. When the gelatin is completely dissolved and the solution com- 
mences to cool add the flavor. 

D. Molding with fruit. If the gelatin is to be molded with fruit 
place dish on ice and pour in layer of gelatin. Place the remainder 
in a warm place so it will not harden before needed. AVhen the first 
layer has hardened arrange fruit on it and pour on another laj^er 
of gelatin. Continue until the dish is filled. 

128209°— 19 11 



162 USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 

E. If used, whipped cream or beaten egg white should be added 
just before the gelatin sets and as it starts to thicken. If added too 
soon it rises to the top and the dessert hardens in two hiA^ers. If 
added too late there is not a complete mixture and lumps of gelatin 
are distributed through the sj)ongy texture. 

F. In order to set or congeal, gelatin desserts need to be thor- 
oughly cliilled. Placing on ice or in a cool place is sufficient if there 
is plenty of time. If the time available is short the setting is has- 
tened by the use of ice and salt. 

METHOD OF DEVELOPING LABORATORY WORK. 

Have one of each of the above desserts prepared showing the great 
variety possible. These may be prepared in family quantities and 
taken home for use. 

Calculate the cost and compare with some prepared gelatin des- 
sert as to cost and palatability. 

LEMON JELLY. 

Gelatin, 1 tablespoon. Lemon juice, 3 tablespoons. 

Sugar, i c-up. Salt. 

Water, IJ cups. 

Soak gelatin in 4 tablespoons of the measured water ; heat the remainder of 
the water ; add sugar and pour over the dissolved gelatin. Add the flavor- 
ing and salt and cool. 

PINEAPPLE SNOW. 

Gelatin, ^ box. Sugar, 1 cup. 

Cold water, 1 scant cup. Cream, 1 pint. 

1 small pineapple, grated. 

Soak gelatin in the water one hour. Cover grated pineapple with the sugar 
and let stand one hour ; then stir the soaked gelatin into it. Turn into a 
saucepan set in a pan of boiling water and stir until the gelatin and sugar 
are dissolved. Let cool but not stiffen. Whip the cream very stiff, stand the 
saucepan containing the gelatin and pineapple mixture in a deep bowl of 
cracked ice, and as it stiffens slowly beat into it the whipped cream. Beat 
steadily until the cream is used and the jelly is white and stiff. Mold and place 
on ice. Serve with rich cream. 

CAEAMEL SPANISH CREAM. 

Gelatin, 1 tablespoon. 2 eggs. 

Sugar, i cup. Vanilla, | teaspoon. 

Milk, 2 cups. 

Scald the milk. Brown the sugar and dissolve in hot milk. Make custard 
of milk, sugar, egg yolks, and salt, llcmove from fire, add gelatin, ami when 
dissolved stir in the stiffly-beaten whites. Flavor and pour into wet, cold molds. 



USE AISTD PEEPAKATION OF FOOD. 163 

ORANGE BAVAKIAN CltKAM. 

i lemon, grated rind and juice. 2 eggs. 

Orange Juice, i cup. Granulated gelatin, 1 teaspoon. 

Sugar, i cup. Cold water, 1 tablespoon. 

Mix sugar, yolks of eggs, lemon, and orange juice. Stir vigorously over the 
fire imtil it thickens, add soaked gelatin, then pour over stiffly-beaten whites or 
eggs. Set in pan of ice water and bent until thick enough to hold its shape. 
Turn into molds and chill. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Gelatin, 2 tablespoons. Cream, 1 cup. 

Sugar, § cup. Flavoring, 1 teaspoon. 

Milk, 2 cups. Lady fingers or sponge cake. 

Soak gelatin in 8 tablespoons of the measured milk. Scald the remainder 
of the milk and add the sugar. Pour over the soaked gelatin. Strain and set 
In ice water. Add flavoring. Stir until it begins to thicken and add the 
cream, whipped stiff. Line the mold with lady fingers or thin strips of sponge 
cake and pour mixture into them. 

FRUIT JETXT. 

Gelatin, 1 tablespoon. Vanilla, 1 tablespoon. 

Sugar, i cup. Salt. 

Fruit juice and finely-cut fruit, 2 cups. 

Soak gelatin in 4 tablespoons of measured fruit juice. Heat the remainder 
of the liquid ; add sugar and pour over soaked gelatin. Add salt and flavoring. 
Pour into wet, cold molds. 



Lesson 5. Water Ices. 



AIM. 

To teacli the method of preparation of water ices and their use in 
the diet. 

POINTS TO BE BROUGHT OUT. 

. 1. Water ices are frozen sokitions of sugar and fruit juices in 
•water. (Unless fruit juice used is acid, lemon juice should be added 
to bring out flavor.) Other materials may be added to change the 
texture. These may be : 

A. Gelatin. — This is dissolved in the sirup. The amount used is 
small, one-fourth ounce envelope to quart. The purpose of adding 
the gelatin is both to increase the body of the ice and to prevent 
crystallization on standing. 

B. Egg white. — These are used in varying proportions, one or 
more to a quart. They increase the richness and food value of the 
ice. The egg white is beaten stiff and added when the ice is partially 
frozen. 



164 USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 

C. Milk. — This may be used instead of a portion of the water. In 
this case the sugar and fruit juice are added to the Avater and when 
the mixture is partially frozen the milk is added. At this low 
temperature a soft flocculent curd is formed which is distributed 
throughout the ice and increases the body, food value, and flavor. 

2. Use of water ices: 

A. Their food value is not high but they furnish a very palatable 
way of introducing fruit juices into the diet. 

B. The acid flavor and the coldness make them especially refresh- 
ing. They are usually used — 

(1) As a dessert after a hot, heavy meal. 

(2) With meat courses where their acid coldness makes a de- 
sirable contrast. In this case plain acid water ices should be 
used since high food value is not desirable and a granular con- 
sistency is not objectionable. 

3. Method of preparation: 

A. Make a sirup of the sugar to be used and a portion of the 
water. This gives a smoother consistency to the ice. Sirups in- 
stead of sugar may be used to sweeten in case the flavor is not ob- 
jectionable. If gelatin is used, it is added to the hot sirup. 

B. Cool sirup before adding fruit juices, since heating fruit juices 
destroys their delicate flavor. Some acid juices, as lemon or lime, 
are desirable in all ices. It forms a good background for the other 
fruit flavors. The grated rind of lemon or orange helps bring out 
a distinctive flavor. The fruit pulp may be added. The flavor 
should be more decided than is wanted in the frozen ice for the 
frozen product numbs the taste buds so they do not distinguish 
flavors so acutely. Tea added gives distinctive flavor. 

C. Freeze as directed in lesson on " The Use of Milk and Cream 
in Frozen Desserts." (Unit IV, Lesson 4.) The more rapidly the 
freezer is turned the smoother the consistency of the ice. 

METHOD OF DEVELOPING LAHORATORY WORK. 

Have typical ices prepared and served. Calculate the cost and 
compare with those bought as to cost and flavor. 

LEMON ICE. 

Water, 4 cups. Juice of 6 lemons. 

Sugar, 2 cups. 

Boil sugar and water 20 minutes. Add juice of lemons, strain and freeze. 

ORANGE ICE. 

Use recipe for lemon ice, substituting 2 cups of orange juice for 4 of the 
lemons. 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 165 



STRAWBERRY ICE. 



Water, 4 ^ujis. Strawberry juice, 2 cups. 

Sugar, li cups. Lemon juice, 1 tablespoon. 

Make a sirup as for lemon ice. Cool, add strawberries mashed and squeezed 

through double cheese cloth, add lemon juice. Strain and freeze. 



PEACH ICE. 



Use recipe for strawberry ice, substituting 2 cups of peach juice and pulp 
made from soft, ripe, fresh peaches for the strawberry juice. 



Same as peach ice. 



APRICOT ICE. 



WATERMELON ICE. 



Chop watermelon very line ; add sugar or sirup and lemon juice to taste ; 
freeze. 

REFERENCES. 

U. S. Department of Agriculture : 

Farmers' Bulletin 653. Honey and Its Uses in the Home. 

Farmers' Bulletin 535. Sugar and Its Value as Food. 
U. S. Food Administration (see note at end of Lesson 6, Unit II) : 

Desserts for 100 Using Little Sugar. 

Frozen Desserts. 

War Confections. 



UNIT IX. 

Home Preservation of Food. 

GENERAL INFORMATION. 

1. Preservation of food is important berause: 

A. It provides a method of equalizing the food supply from 
season to season or from year to year, and thereby helps to stabilize 
prices. 

B. It makes it possible to transport foods more easily for long 
distances so that the surplus products of one locality may be used 
to supply other localities where there is a shortage. 

C. It provides a more varied, healthful, and appetizing diet. The 
increased use of fresh and canned fruits and vegetables during the 
winter months does away with the need for a spring tonic. Many 
cases of undernourishment or disease may be traced to a too re- 
stricted diet. 

D. It prevents wast« of perishable foods by providing a method 
by which they may be kept for future use. 

2. Reasons why food spoils. — Everywhere, in the air, soil, and 
water, and on everything we use, there exist tiny plants or organisms, 
known as bacteria, yeasts, and molds, which are so small that they 
can be seen only with a microscope. For this reason they are often 
called microorganisms. When these organisms are allowed to grow 
in or on food they cause spoilage. If they can be destroyed, and 
otherwise prevented from attacking the food, it will keep indefi- 
nitely. Some forms of organisms are easily destroyed, others form 
spores which are more resistant, and therefore are more difficult to 
destroy. 

3. How food spoilage can be prevented. — The spoilage of food 
can be prevented by destroying the organisms or preventing tlieir 
activity, by means of : 

A. Cold, as in refrigeration or cold storage. 

B. Heat, as in canning, 

C. Removal of moisture, as in drying. 

D. Adding " preservatives " or substances in which organisms can 
not grow. Sugar, salt, spices, and vinegar are household preserva- 
tives. 

4. Choice of method of food preservation for the home. — Whether 
food should be canned, dried, salted, fermented, or otherwise stoi'cd 
depends upon : 

A. The equipment available. 

B. The family preference. 
166 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 167 

C. The kind and amount of food to be kept. 

D. Storage space available. 

E. Kind of containers which may be procured. 

5. Community canners and driers should be encouraged wherever 
there are enough locally grown products to justify their installation. 
Any community surplus of perishable foods may thus be saved. 
Good equipment and expert advice can thus be furnished to all the 
women in the community at a small cost, a more standard product 
may be obtained, and the chance of spoilage lessened. 

6. In addition to observing the directions for proper sealing and 
sterilization in canning foods (Lesson 1), these simple precautions 
should be observed in their use to obviate any possible dangers aris- 
ing from spoilage. 

A. Boil all vegetables five minutes before serving. If they are 
to be used for salad allow time for them to cool. 

B. Boil fruit for five minutes, also, and cool before serving. 

C. Fermentation causes a change in flavor, which is objectionable 
to many people, but it does not make the food unfit for use. Canned 
fruit or vegetables which have fermented may be used provided they 
are first thoroughly boiled. 

D. Do not use canned fruit or vegetables which have a " flat, sour " 
taste due to changes which are produced by organisms forming 
acids but no gas. 



Lesson 1. The Canning of Fruit. 

AIM. 

To give methods by which fruit may be canned successfully at 
home. 

POINTS TO BE BROUGHT OUT. 

1. Reasons for canning fruit : 

A. Fruit contains acids which partially prevent the rapid growth 
or organisms, hence canning furnishes an easy method of providing a 
supply for use when needed. 

B. Fruit is extremely important in the diet on account of its acids 
and its mineral matter. It also adds bulk to the diet. (See Unit II, 
Lesson 1.) The high price of fresh fruit out of season discourages 
its general use. Fruit canned in season not only saves perishable 
products that would otherwise go to waste, but furnishes economical, 
palatable, and satisfactory substitutes for fresh fruit in the diet 
during the time of year when this is high in price. 

2, Review the reasons why foods spoil and methods of controlling 
food spoilage. (See introduction.) 



168 USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 

A. Canning is a method of preservation by heat in which the food 
is heated to a sufficiently high temperature and for a sufficient length 
of time to kill all organisms present and then sealed so that no more 
can enter. Foods so treated will keep indefinitely. 

3. Methods of canning fruit: 

A. Open-kettle method. — By this method food is cooked in an 
open kettle the required time, transferred immediately to a sterilized 
jar, and sealed. Jars, tops, rubbers, and all utensils must be thor- 
oughly sterilized before being used. 

(1) Advantages: 

(a) Eequires little time and simple equipment which may 
be found in any kitchen. The direct application of heat en- 
ables the boiling temperature to be reached quickly and 
maintained throughout the food as long as is necessary for 
complete sterilization. 

(h) By this method the product may be concentrated to 
any desired degree before being canned. This is important 
where jar-space is valuable. 

(2) Disadvantages: 

(a) Unless all utensils used are completely sterilized, and 
unless the work is carefully done and the sealing accom- 
plished while the product is as near the boiling point as pos- 
sible, organisms may enter the jar when it is being filled, 
and the product thereby be spoiled. 

(h) Many fruits and vegetables canned by this method do 
not retain their color and shape so well as those canned by 
the can-cooked process, but in some cases more of their 
original food value may be preserved. 

(3) Products for which this method is suited: 

(a) Ma}' be used for any product which is easily canned 
or for those products which require concentration before 
being canned. 

(h) It should not be used for canning foods high in pro- 
tein unless the food is later sterilized in the jar. 

B. Can-cooked method. — By this method the food is packed into 
tlie jar and both jar and contents are sterilized at the same time in 
hot water or steam. Since fruits are sterilized by cooking at boil- 
ing temperature; they may be canned satisfactorily by a one-period 
cooking in a hot-water bath. The use of a pressure cooker shortens 
the time required, but is not necessary to keep the fruit. Where a 
certain consistency or flavor is desired, as in the case of such 
]n'oducts as fruit sauces, baked fruits, watery vegetables, and souie 
meats, the food is precooked, as for the table before being packed 
into t]ie jar and sterilized by the can-cooked method. 



rSE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 169 

(1) Advantages of the can-cooked metliod: 

(a) It may be used for any fruit, veget^'ble, or meat. 

{h) It offers less opportunity for spoilage, since the jars 
are not opened after the fruit is sterilized, and both can and 
contents are sterilized with the one heating. 

(c) It produces a more uniform product, which retains its 
color and shape better than products of the open-kettle 
method. 

(//) In general it is an easier method of canning than the 
open-kettle method, because it requires less handling of hot 
materials and utensils. 

(2) Disadvantages: 

{a) With some products a preliminary process, called 
blanching, is used to shrink the product and help to set the 
color. This increases the handling and the labor necessary 
and causes some loss of food value. 

(7^) This method does not permit concentration unless 
precooking is used also, hence with watery products the 
material should be concentrated before packing in the jars. 

(c) The product heats more slowly, and if closely packed 
it takes a longer time for the amount of heat necessary for 
sterilization to penetrate throughout the material. 

(d) It requires additional equipment for pVocessing. or 
sterilizing. This may be purchased or improvised from 
utensils on hand. 

(3) Products for which the method is suited: 

(a) Products requiring a long period of sterilization or a 
temperature higher than boiling. 

(b) Used as a method of sterilizing such precooked 
products as fruit, sauces, or for preserves, jams, or butters, 
vrhere the amount of sugar has been reduced to a minimum. 

(4) Equipment needed for can-cooked method : 

(a) Glass jars and tin cans. — Any type may be used which 
provide for an air-tight seal. 

(h) Tops. — Glass tops may be used from year to year. 
Metal tops should be purchased new each year. Test all tops 
before using to see that they fit the jars. 

{(:) Rubbers. — Use only heavy, new, elastic rubbers. 
Test by stretching to see that they spring back into place 
readilj', or by bending the edge sharply, to see if the rubber 
breaks or comes into tiny holes. See that the rubber fits the 

(d) Wire basket or squares of cheesecloth for blanching. 

(e) Pans, knives, spoons, kettle for sirup, etc. 



170 USE AND PREPAKATION OF FOOD. 

(/) Canner : 

(1) Homemade, water-bath canner. — Any vessel may 
be used, such as washboiler, lard can, or tm pail, with 
a closely fitting top, and a false bottom of strips of wood 
or wire which will raise the jars an inch above the bot- 
tom of the canner and let the water circulate beneath. 
Tin cans ars submerged in the water in the canner, but 
when glass jars are used either of the following methods 
is successful: (a) Have the water come at least an inch 
above the jars when they are on the rack, or (5) have 
the water come to 1 or 2 inches below the top of the jars. 
This type of canner is inexpensive and satisfactory. 
Commercial water-bath canners may be obtained, if 
preferred. 

(2) Steam-pressure canner. — A commerical canner 
with a steam-tight lid and a pressure gauge. The high 
temperature which may be maintained shortens the time 
of sterilization. Such canners are more expensive but 
are suited to conditions wdiere a great deal of canning is 
to be done, to climates where the higher temperature 
is necessary to keep products successfully, or the altitude 
low^ers the boiling point. 

(5) Steps in can-cooked method: 

(a) Select only fresh, sound fruits. 

(h) Clean and prepare by paring, cutting into suitable 
pieces, etc. 

(c) Hard fruits, such as apples, pears, or quinces, may be 
blanched by being dipped in boiling water or placed in live 
steam, the length of time given in the table. This shrinks 
the product and enables more to be packed into the jar, but 
loses something of the flavor and food value. Juicy or soft 
fruits should never be blanched except as a short, hot dip 
may be an advantage in removing the skin. 

{cl) After blanching, dip into cold water to set the color 
and cool the product for handling. 

(e) Pack immediately into hot, clean jars, or cans. 
(/) Fill jar or can with boiling w^ater, sirup, or fruit 
juice. (See 6.) 

{(/) Adjust tops or exhaust air. 

(1) Glass jars. — Adjust rubbers and tops. Partially 
seal. Glass-top jars have the upper clamp adjusted and 
the lower spring left up. Screw-top jars are sealed, then 
turned slightly to the left to loosen. Composition-top 
jars have the lids put on and the spring adjusted. 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 



171 



(2) Tin cans. — Fill cans and cap, leaving the small 
opening in the center of the can open. Place in hot- 
water bath and heat to boiling to exhaust air from the 
can. Seal the opening while can is steaming hot. 
{h) Sterilize or process. — Place jars in canner and sterilize 
the required length of time. Count time only when water is 
boiling hard or steam is at the required pressure. 
(i) Remove jars, tighten tops, and cool. 
There are two variations of the above process in use, one in the 
North and West and one in the South. For detailed directions for 
these processes the following bulletins should be consulted : 
United States Department of Agriculture, States Relation Service : 

Farmei's' Bulletin 839. Home Canning by the One-Period Cokl-I'ack 

Method. 
Farmers' Bulletin 853. Home Canning of Fruits and Vegetables as taught 
to Canning Club Members in the Southern States. 

(6) Use of sugar and sirups in canning fruit. — In the usual 
method of canning fruit, sugar is used for flavor and to help 
keep the fruit in shape. When sirup is mentioned in canning 
directions, it refers to sugar and water, brought to the boiling 
point. The proportions used vary according to taste from a thin 
sirup (about one cup sugar to four cups water) used for sweet 
fruits, to a thick sirup (about one cup sugar to tvro cups water) 
for sour fruits. 



Table of proportions for sirups. 
[Circular No. A-81. — States Relations Service, U. S. Department of Agriculture.l 



Sirup. 


Sugar. 


Water orfruitjuice. 


No. 1 


14 ounces 


1 gallon. 
Do. 


No. 2 


1 pound 14 ounces 


No. 3 : 


3 pounds 9 ounces 


Do. 


No. 4 


5 pounds 8 ounces 


Do. 


No. 5 


6 pounds 13 ounces 


Do. 









It is an improvement in flavor and food value if fruit juice 
is used instead of water in making the sirup. If the use of 
sugar is not desired, fruit may be canned in any of the follow- 
ing ways: • 

(a) Fruit may be canned unsweetened by adding hot 
water instead of sirup. Such fruit will not hold its shape 
so well, but is suitable for pies, puddings, or salads. Add 
10 minutes to time of sterilization. 

(h) Fruit may be canned in fruit juice with no sugar in- 
stead of in sirup. Apple juice, grape juice, or juice mado 



172 USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 

from small or imperfect fruits may be used. Such fruit 
holds its shape and has its natural fruit flavor increased. 

(c) Other s^Yeeteners, such as corn sirup, glucose, honey, 
maple sirup, molasses, and sorghum may be used in place of 
part or all of the sugar in canning. Molasses and sorghum 
give a characteristic flavor and are best used with very acid 
fruits. In the above proportions other sweeteners take the 
place of 75 per cent of the sugar. 

(d) Fruit may be canned with the addition of only as 
much sugar as would be used were it served fresh. Mix and 
allow to stand to draw out juice. Pack in can, using juice to 
cover. 

METHOD OF DEVELOl'ING LABORATORY WORK. 

Where laboratory facilities are not available for class work this 
lesson may be given as a demonstration by the teacher. One hard 
fruit, such as apples or pears, and one soft fruit, such as berries, may 
be canned. Suggest the possibility of canning such fruits as green 
apple sauce, baked peaches, apples or pears, rhubarb sauce or baked 
rhu1)arb by precooking and then sterilizing by the can-cooked method. 

Where sufficient laboratory equipment is available the lesson 
should be used as a class practice. It might be well to put into the 
hands of each member of the class a copy of either of the bulletins 
named in (5) and have the work done according to the directions 
contained in the bulletin. Different students or groups of students 
should use the methods suggested in (6) and compare the products 
as to flavor and texture. In class practice in canning, carefulness, 
cleanliness, and speed should be emphasized. 

If the students prefer they may be allowed to bring from home 
any fruit which they wish canned, use this in the class practice, and 
take the finished product home. In this case all materials as well 
as jars, rubbers, and lids will be furnished by the students. 

Supplementary home work may be assigned to the students by 
requiring them to can a jar of fruit at home and bring it to class 
for display and criticism. Opportunity should be given at this time 
for discussing any difficulties that arise in the home canning and for 
suggesting ways of solving these difficulties. 



Lessox 2. The Canning of Vegetables. 



AIM. 



To encourage the increased houie canning of vegetables from the 
standpoint of value in the diet, econouiy and conservation, and to give 
methods by which home canning of vegetables may be done success- 
fully. 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 173 

POINTS TO BE BROUGHT OUT. 

1. The amount of Acgetables canned at home is smaller tlian that 
of fruit, and people rel}^ more on the commercial products. Home- 
canned vegetables are frequently superior in flavor and quality and 
are less expensive than the commercial article. 

2. It is estimated that the average family needs daily a can of 
fruit or vegetables or the equivalent in fresh fruits and vegetables 
for the sake of health and variety of diet. Canning makes it possible 
for every family to have the necessary amount of vegetables during 
the months when fresh vegetables are high in price or are not obtain- 
able. 

3. Special emphasis should be laid on canning the perishable vege- 
tables, such as greens, asparagus, green beans, etc. It is not neces- 
sary or economical to can such vegetables as turnips or cabbage 
which can be otherwise stored and used fresh. 

4. Method to be used. — Vegetables are more difficult to can than 
fruit, because they have less acid and because some types are attacked 
by spore-forming bacteria, which require long boiling or a high 
temperature for sterilization. With care, however, vegetables can 
be canned successfully in the home. The following methods are 
used : 

A. Open-kettle metliod may be used satisfactorily for a few acid 
vegetables such as tomatoes. 

B. In general, the can-cooked method is recommended as being 
more certain and better adapted to the longer period of sterilization 
Avhich is required. 

C. For watery vegetables, such as greens, it is an advantage to 
cook first in an open kettle to reduce the bulk, then sterilize by the 
can-cooked method. The liquid from the vegetables should be used 
in filling the jars. The same result may be accomplished Iw blanch- 
ing but with a loss of mineral salts. 

5. Methods of processing can-cooked vegetables: 

A. One-period process in the water-bath canner, such as is given 
for ivuit (Lesson 1). This is an easy and convenient method. In 
the case of closely packed vegetables, or the vegetables, such as peas, 
beans, or corn, which are more difficult to can, a long period of 
processing is necessary in order to obtain sufficient heat throughout 
the jar for complete sterilization, 

B. Intermittent process requires a period of sterilization (usually 
one hour or more) on three successive days. This method is more 
siire for canning the vegetables which are high in spore-forming 
bacteria. When this method is used care should be taken that the 
time employed is sufficiently long for the interior to reach the 



174 USE AND PREPAKATION OF FOOD. 

temperature required to kill the bacteria. Either this method or 
processing under pressure must be used in Southern States to insure 
success in canning vegetables. 

C. Processing under pressure is sure and is especially satisfactory 
for the more difficult vegetables. The use of too high a temperature 
should be avoided since it will injure the flavor and the appearance 
of the vegetable. 

6. Steps in canning vegetables. — Follow directions in Lesson 1 
for canning fruit, using boiling water instead of sirup to fill the 
jars and adding a level teaspoonful of salt to each quart of vege- 
tables. 

7. Special directions for canning vegetables: 

A. If green vegetables are blanched in live steam instead of in 
boiling water, more of the flavor and mineral matter will be retained. 

B. Tomatoes should be packed closely in the jars, and tomato 
juice (from small or imperfect tomatoes) added instead of water. 

C. All vegetables should be canned within five or six hours after 
being gathered. To obtain a well-flavored product, work quickly 
with a small quantity at a time and place each jar in the canner as 
it is filled. 

D. Corn should be blanched and cold dipped before being cut from 
the cob. In packing corn, Lima beans, or mature green beans leave 
space for expansion at the top of the jar. 

E. When blanching beets leave on an inch of top and all the root. 
Cold dip and scrape gently to remove skin. Avoid cutting if beets 
are to retain their color. 

F. Combinations of vegetables may be canned for soups or salads 
by blanching each vegetable separately, then packing and sterilizing 
according to the vegetables which require the longest time, or by 
cooking in small amount of water to shrink and canning, without 
blanching, in proportions for soup. 

METHOD or de\t:lopixg laboratory work. 

This lesson may be used as a demonstration by the teacher or as a 
class practice, as suggested for Lesson 1, with the use of the same 
bulletins. Tomatoes, a green vegetable, and one vegetable such as 
peas, beans, or corn, should be canned. Care, cleanliness, speed, and 
skill should be emphasized. Get an estimate from each student as 
to what vegetables are commonh'^ canned in their homes and in what 
quantity and what commercially canned vegetables are bought. En- 
courage the home canning of a variety of vegetables in sufficient 
quantit}'^ to take the place of the commercial product. If possible 
have the laboratory work done in quantity. 



USE Al^D PREPAKATION OF FOOD. 175 

Point out the usual causes of failure in canning vegetables and 
see that the students learn how to avoid these. The most frequent 
causes of failure are: 

1. The use of vegetables of a poor quality or those that have stood 
too long after being gathered. 

2. The use of poor lids and rubbers. 

3. Failure to keep the water boiling hard during the period of 
blanching and steylization. 

4. Failure to work quickly and with such a quantity that the 
vegetables do not deteriorate with long standing in a hot kitchen. 

5. Failure to sterilize for sufficient length of time. 

The students may bring vegetables from home and can them in 
class as suggested in Lesson 1. Supplementary home work may 
consist of having each student can any available vegetables at home 
and bring them to class, or having each student agree to help a 
neighbor can vegetables and report her success. In either case there 
should be a class discussion of any difficulties met and suggestions 
given for overcoming these difficulties. 



Lesson 3. Fruit Juices. 

AIM. 

To show the value of fruit juices in the diet, to give methods of ex- 
tracting and bottling the juices, and to suggest ways in which they 
may be used. 

POINTS TO BE BROUGHT OUT. 

1. Value in the diet: 

A. Fruit juices contain a large part of the acid, sugar, mineral 
matter, and water of the original fruit. They are therefore valuable 
additions to the diet and should be used generously. (See Unit II, 
Lesson 1.) 

B. Fruit juices offer a method for usmg small or imperfect fruits 
unsuited to canning or other methods of preservation. 

C. Concentrated fruit juices contain a fairly large proportion of 
fruit sugar and may be used as sugar savers. 

2. Methods of extraction : 

A. Cold. — Juicy or very soft fruits may be mashed and run 
through a fruit press or strained through a jelly bag, then heated and 
bottled as described below. 

B. Hot. — Cook fruit in a small amount of water until reduced to a 
pulp and strain. Hard fruits will require more water and may be 
cut into pieces before being cooked. 



176 USE AND PREPARATION OE EOOD. 

3. Method of obtaining clear juice. — If a clear juice is desired it 
should be placed in a glass or enameled vessel and alloAved to settle 
for 2-1 hours before bottling. Pour off carefullj^ or siphon off so as 
not to disturb the sediment. Juice extracted by the cold process 
should be heated to the simmering point before being set aside to 
settle. 

4. Methods of canning or bottling: 

A. Heat juice to l)oiling point, pour into sterilized bottles, and seal 
with corks. Dip cork and neck into melted paraffin. Glass jars may 
be used instead of bottles and the juices sealed as in canning fruit. 

B. Pour the juice into the bottles, cork with cotton, place bottles 
in hot ^Yater up to the neck and sterilize for 40 minutes at a tem- 
perature of 74° C. (165° F.). Remove the bottles and press the cork 
in over the cotton. Seal with paraffin if necessary. 

5. Suggested uses : 

A. As a beverage. Several fruit juices may be combined for this 
purpose. 

B. As a sauce for puddings. 

C. As a flavoring for puddings, pies, or custards. 

D. In ices or ice creams. 

E. In gelatin desserts. 

F. On waffles or griddle cakes. 

G. As a basis for cooked dressing for fruit salad. 

H. For jelly to be made at a later period. (For this purpose only 
juice extracted with heat should be used because pectin is not present 
m a cold extract.) 

METHOD OF DEVELOPING LABORATORY WORK. 

Fruit juice should be prepared from any fruit in season, showing 
both methods of extraction. Compare the two extractions for (a) 
amount of juice, (h) concentration, and (c) flavor. The juice ex- 
tracted by heat should be bottled for use in the lesson on jelly making. 
The juice extracted by the cold process may be used for demonstrat- 
ing any of the following recipes: 

FKriT BEVERAGE. 

Any desired combination of fruit juices may be used, and water added accord- 
ing to the strength desired for the beverage. In sweetening with sugar, it is 
more economical to make the sugar into a sirup before adding to the fruit 
juice. With mild fruit juices, a small amount of lemon juice improves tlie 
flavor. Average proportions for a fruit drink are: 

Sugar, i cup (or the equivalent in T.omon juice, i eup. 

sirup). Raspberry, loganberry, or other fruit 

Water, lA cups. juice, 1 cup. 



USE AXD PEEPAEATION OF FOOD. 177 

TRXJIT PUNCH. 

Strawberry, rospherry, loganberry, or Strong tea, i cup. 

grape ,]moc, 1 cup. Sugar (or the equivalent in sirup), 1 

•Tuice of 2 orangps. cup. 

Juice of 3 lemons. Water, 1 quart. 
(jrat(Hl pineapple, h can. 

GRAPE SPONGE. 

G'l-anulated gelatin, 2 tablespoons. Sugar (or the equivalent in sirup), f 

Grai)e juice, 1 cup. cup. 

I.enion juice, i cup. Two egg whites. 

Boiling water, 1 cup. 

Soften the gelatin in I cup of cold water. Add the boiling water and the 
sugar or sirup. When partially cooled add the grape and lemon juice. Fold 
in the bffiten egg whites just when the mixture begins to set. 

STP.AWBERKY BAVARIAN CREAM. 

ilake as for grape sponge, iising strawberiy juice for grape juice. Omit the 
egg whites-and use instead 1 cup cream, whipped. Fold in just when the mix- 
ture begins to set. 



Lesson 4. Jelly Making. 

AIM. 

To show liOAV to convert fruit juices into a firm, tender, palatable 
jelly, using a minimum amount of sugar. 

POINTS TO BE BROUGHT OUT. 

1. Jelly making is not an economical method of using fruit or 
sugar, when the time, fuel, and amount of fruit and sugar required 
are taken into consideration. It is, however, a good method by 
Avhich cores, parings, or small and imperfect fruit may be con- 
verted into an appetizing product. 

2. Selection of fruit for jelly making: 

A. In order to make a good jelly, fruit must contain acid and a 
jelly-making substance called pectin. 

B. Underripe and tart fruits contain a lai-ger amount of these in- 
gredients and are best for jelly. 

C". Pectin is found near the skin or around the core of fruit, hence 
cither the entire fruit or the parings and cores should be used. 

D. Fruits higli in jelly-making ingredients, such as tart apples, 
green grapes, plums, or currants, may be combined with fruits low in 
jelly-making ingredients, such as strawberries or peaches. If a fruit 
juice contains sufficient pectin but little acid, a small amount of 
lemon juice may be added until the juice is approximately as sour 
as tart apple juice. 

128209°— in 12 



178 USE AlsD PREPARATION OF FOOD. 

3. Pi'oparation of fruit for jelly: 

A. Prepare as for fruit juice (Lesson 3), using the method of ex- 
traction by heat, which obtains more pectin. 

B. If the fruit is rich in pectin, more water may be added to the 
pulp, the mixture cooked, and the juice extracted a second time. 
This extraction should be concentrated by boiling before being used. 
Such juice is low in flavor and may be combined with highly flavored 
juice for jelly. If not extracted a second time tlie pulp may be 
rubbed through a strainer and used in preparation of butters. 

4. Proportions of sugar and juice. — The amount of sugar used 
with a given amount of juice affects the amount of jelly obtained 
and also the color, flavor, and texture. Too much sugar gives a 
sirupy jelly which will not hold its shape. Too little sugar gives a 
tough, opacjue jelly. The following general proportions may be used: 

A. For juices rich in pectin and acid (apples, green grapes, cur- 
rants) one cup of sugar to one cup of juice may be used. This gives 
the maximum amount of jelly, with a good color and texture, but 
it is sweeter than is necessary or desirable. 

B. For average fruit juices, three- fourths cup of sugar to one cup 
of juice may be used. This gives a good yield, texture, color, and 
flavor and is the standard amount for general use. 

C. For jelly made with the second extraction of juice, which is 
lower in pectin, one-half cup of sugar may be used to one cup of 
juice. This gives a smaller amount of jelly with a darker color and 
a less sweet flavor but with good texture. 

5. Other sweeteners in jell}': 

A. An}^ of the other sweeteners, such as sirup or honey, may take 
the place of part or all the sugar in jelh' making. Corn sirup and 
glucose are most desirable in delicately flavored jellies, while the 
more highly flavored sirups may be used in tart or highly flavored 
jellies. 

B. For best results not more than 50 per cent substitution (by 
weight) of sirup for sugar is recommended in jelly. This proportion 
gives a firm, tender jelly with good flavor. On the basis of three- 
fourths cup of sugar to one cup of juice, this substitution will re- 
quire : 

For 1 cup of .iiiice (first extraction). A cup of sirup and % cup of susar. 
For 1 quart of juice, 1 cup of sirup unci 1^ cups of sugar. 
For a 7."> per cent substitution on tlie basis of 5 cup sugar to 1 cup Juice — • 
For 1 quart of juice, Ij cups of sirup and j cup of sugar. 

6. Time for adding su^ar or sirup to jinces: 

A. Sugar or sirup should be added when the jelly is half done. 
When added earlier the cooking temperature is increased for a longer 
period of time and a darker jelly with less delicate flavor results. 



USE AND PREPATvATlON OF FOOD. 179 

B. When sugar and sirup are used together, mix aud heat until 
the sugar is dissolved hefore adding to the jelly. 

C. To prevent waste of sugar, jelly should he carefully skimmed 
before the sugar is added. 

7. Tests for jelly : 

A. Jelly is done when it '* sheets " from the spoon or when two 
drops form side by side on the edge of the spoon. 

B. By the thermometer, jelly is done when cooked to 102° to 
103° C. (-215° to 217° F.). This test should be used in combination 
with the test given above. A higher temperjiture is required by some 
of the southern fruits. Cooking to too high a temperature gives a 
candy rather than a jelly. 

8. Storing. — Pour into hot sterilized glasses, cover with melted 
paraffin, and keep in a cool, dry place to avoid mold. 

METHOD or DEVELOPING LABOKATOKT AVOKK. 

For this lesson the fruit juice extracted in Lesson 3 may be used. 
Have on display (or make in class) jelly using (1) one-fourth cup 
sugar, (2) one-half cup sugar, (3) three-fourths cup sugar, (4) one 
cup sugar to one cup juice, showing the increase in the amount of 
jelly and the changes in texture. Demonstrate or have students make 
jelly using (1) 50 per cent sirup to 50 per cent sugar, (2) 100 per 
cent sirup. Compare for flavor, amount of jelly, and texture. Calcu- 
late the cost of the jelly nuide and reserve the data for comparison 
purposes in the next lessons. Have the women discuss their difficul- 
ties in jelly making and suggest ways to overcome these. The usual 
mistakes are: 

(a) Too much sugar to juice (sirupy jelly). 

(5) Too little sugar to juice (tough jelly). 

(c) Too short cooking (watery jelly). 

(d) Too long cooking (strong, dark, candied jelly). 

(e) Use of fruit containing too little pectin or acid. 

For supplementary home Avork, the student may be required to 
make a glass of jelly and bring it to class for comparison, criticism, 
and discussion of difficulties and Avays of meeting them. 



Lessox 5. Preserves, Jaais, Butters, and Marmalades. 

ATM. 

To give methods of making preserves, jams, butters, and nuirma- 
lades and to shoAv the proper use of these products in the diet. 

POINTS TO BE BROUGHT OUT. 

1. Preserves, jams, butters, and marmalades are products Avhich arc 
preserA'ed by a combination of heat and sugar. The general pro- 



180 USE AXD PREPARATION OF FOOD. 

portions are similar, but they differ somewhat in choice of mate- 
rials, method of making, and final texture, 

2. These products are not economical forms of saving fruit when 
sugar is scarce because of their high concentration and the large 
amount of sugar required. 

3. They should not be used to replace fresh or canned fruit in the 
diet because they do not furnish the constituents whicli make the 
fresh or canned fruit so A'alual)le. The long period of cooking at 
a high temperature changes the fiavor, the crisp texture, and the 
bulk. 

4. Preserves, jams, butters, and marmalades are chiefly valuable 
for their desirable flavor and their high fuel value. Since they 
are concentrated sources generally, they may be used to some extent 
to save other concentrated fuel foods. With plenty of jam, less 
butter is eaten. They can not, however, entirely replace butter in 
the diet on account of its valuable growth-promoting properties. 

5. Amount and kind of SAveeteners to be used : 

A. The maximum amount of sugar, pound for pound, was for- 
merly used in making these products, so that they would keep in 
open containers. This amount of sweetening is neither necessary 
nor desirable when the product is to be sealed. The amount of 
sweetening used may vary from one-fourth to three-fourths by 
weight. The following proportions may be used for preserves, 
jams, butters, or marmalades: 

(1) For acid fruits, use to every pound of prepared fruit, 
three-fourths pound of sugar or fifteen-sixteenths cup sirup 
and three-eighths cup sugar. 

(2) For medium sweet fruits, use to every pound of pre- 
pared fruit, one-half pound of sugar or two-thirds cup (scant) 
sirup and one-fourth cup sugar. 

(3) For sweet fruits, use to every pound of prepared fruit, 
one-fourth pound of sugar or one-third cup sirup and one- 
eighth cup sugar. 

More or less sirup may be used, according to the amount of sugar 
which is available. With the less sweet sirups, at least 25 per cent 
sugar is desirable for sweetness and flavor. Honey may be used 
for the entire amount of sAveetening. It gives a characteristic flavor 
which many people like. Sorghum or molasses may be used entirely 
or in part with spiced butters. The flavor is improved if the sorg- 
hum is first boiled Avith soda, using one teaspoonful to a gallon of 
sorghum, cooled and skimmed. 

6. Methods of making: 

A. PreserA'es. — The aim in making preserA'es is to obtain a prod- 
uct Avith a clear, thick sirup, in Avhich are uniform pieces of fruit, 



USE AND PREPARATIOlSr OF FOOD. 181 

tender yet retaining their shape. Firm fruits are more desirable 
for preserves. Small fruits may be preserved Avhole; larger fruits 
may be divided into pieces. 

Since the shape of the fruit is to be preserved, the sweetening is 
added at the beginning of the cooking process. Weigh the prepared 
fruit. AVeigh the sweetening, using general proportions given in 5. 
Make a sirup of the sweetening and a small amount of water or 
fruit juice, add the fruit and cook together until the pieces are ten- 
der and transparent and the sirup sufficiently concentrated. Can 
in sterilized jars or process 20 minutes by the can-cooked method. 
Very hard fruits, such as pears or quinces, may be partially cooked 
for tenderness before being added to the sirup. In such a case the 
water in Avhich tlio fruit is cooked should be used in making the 
sirup. 

B. Jams. — Jams are made from whole fruits, crushed to a homo- 
genous mass and concentrated to a desired thickness. Small fruits, 
such as berries, are used and the seeds and skins retained. Cook 
the fruit with a small amount of water until soft and crush to a 
smooth mass. Very soft fruits may be crushed without the cooking. 
Weigh, add sweetening, using proportions given in 5, and cook to 
the desired thickness. Can in sterilized jars or process 20 minutes 
by the can-cooked method. 

C. Butters. — Butters are similar to jams except that they are 
made of the fleshy part of larger fruits, cooked to a thick, smooth 
mass. Spices are usually added. Cook the fruit with a small 
amount of water until reduced to a pulp. Strain through a colander 
to remove lumps. Weigli, add a sweetening and spices and concen- 
trate to desired thickness. Can in sterilized jars or process as 
directed for jams. 

D. Marmalades contain both fleshy part and the skin or rind of 
the fruits, onl}' the seeds being removed. They are usually made of 
fruits containing a large amount of pectin, either used alone or 
combined with other fruits. Oranges, lemons and grapefruit are- 
frequently combined with other fruits. Vegetable marmalades may 
be made by using rhubarb or carrot in combination with fruit. 
Divide the fruit into small pieces of uniform size. Weigh. Make 
a sirup of the sweetener and a small amount of water, add the fruit 
and cook until the fruit is clear and the sirup is of a jellylike con- 
sistency. Can in sterilized jars, or process as directed for jam, or 
pour into sterilized glasses and cover with melted paraffin. 

E. Fruit leathers may be made from butter or marmalade; s])read 
in a thin layer on an oiled platter and dried in the sun or by artificial 
heat. Cut into squares or roll and slice and use as a confection. 



182 USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 

METHOD or DEVELOPING LABOKATOIJY WORK. 

Demonstrate or have made in class preserves, spiced butter sweet- 
ened with sorghum or mohisses, vegetable marmalade and fruit 
leather, made from seasonable fruits. Call attention to the effect on 
the shape and texture of the fruit when the sweetening is added in 
the beginning, as in preserves and marmalade, or after the fruit is 
cooked tender, as in jam or butter. Have the student calculate the 
cost of the product made and compare with the cost of jelly and of 
canned fruit, so that thev' may see the economical way to use a given 
amount of fruit. 

Suggest that where jelly is made the pulp may be used for spiced 
butter or fruit leather. If it is low in flavor, after the removal of 
the fruit juice, it may be combined with other fruit with a good 
flavor. 

An assignment of home work may be made as in Lessons 1 and 2. 

Sl'IC'EO APPLE BtTTTEU. 

Sweet apple eider, 4 gallons. 

Apple sauce (made from peeled and sliced apples, cooked and run tlirout^U 
a colander), 4 gallons. 

Boil the cider until it is reduced to one-half the amount. Add the ai>i)le 
sauce and cook slowly until thick (4 to G hours), stirring constantly to avoid 
scorching. When nearly done, add 1 pound sugar, * teaspoonful groun«fl cloves, 
-} teaspoonful allspice, and 1 teasi)oonful ground cinnamon for each gallon 
of apple butter. Seal in sterilized jars or sterilize by the can-coolied method 

If cider is not available it may be omitted, and the apple sauce may be con- 
centrated, sweetened, and .spiced. A grape flavor may be added by using 1 
pint grape juice to each gallon of cooked apples. 

PLUM BUTTER. 

Cook plums in little water until tender; run through a colander to remove 
stones and skins. Sweeten in the proportions given in 5, add spices if desired, 
and cook until thick. If the tart flavor is objectionable, an equal quantity 
of cooked apple sauce may be used with the plum pulp. 

MOCK ORANGE MAKMAT.ADE. 

Ground carrot, 2 cups. 1 orange (juice and grated rind). 

2 lemons (juice only). Sugar. 1 cup. 

Cook without stirring until thick. Place in jars and sterilize by the can- 
cooked method. 

CARROT, PINEAPPLE, AND RHUBARB MARMALADE. 

Ground carrot. J cup. Unpeeled rhubarb, cut iiitt» small 

Shredded pineapple, cooked until ten- pieces, li cups, 
der, i cui). Sugar, l] cups. 

1 lemon, quartered and sliced. 

Cook witb(»ut stirring until thick. Sea.son with a little gingerroot of desired. 



USE AND PREPARxVTlON OF FOOD. 183 

OKANGK MAliUALADE. 

Oranges, 1 pouml. Sugar, 5 pound. 

Select smooth, sour oranges. Remove the peel in quarters and cook in boil- 
ing water until soft. Drain, scrape out white part, and cut the thin rind into 
strips with the scissor.s. Divide oranges into sections ; remove seed and skin. 
Put into kettle and heat to boiling point, add the sugar gradually, and cook 
one hour. Add the rind and cook until it gives the jelly test. Turn into 
glasses. 

ORANGE AND GRAPEFRtHT MARMALADE. 

Use equal numbers of oranges, grapefruit, and lemons. (One of each is 
the usual number.) Prepare the fruit as for orange marmalade, omitting the 
rind. To the pulp add three times its bulk of water, boil 15 minutes, and let 
stand overnight. The next morning, boil for 10 minutes. Let stand until 
cold, then add an equal amount of sugar, and cook rapidly until the mixture 
gives the jelly test. Allow it to cool a little, then pour into glasses. 



Lesson G. Pickles. 

AIM, 

To show the methods of combining- fruit or vegetables with sweet- 
ened or unsweetened or spiced vinegar to malce pickles, and to show 
the place of pickles in the diet. 

POINTS TO BE BROUGHT OUT, 

1. Pickles have little food value aside from the amount of sweet- 
ening they contain. When used in moderation, the)^ serve as a 
relish and offer a means of adding flavor to a meal. They should 
not be given to children. 

2. The desirable qualities in pickle are freshness, crispness, good 
flavor, uniformity in size of the pieces, and good proportion of 
liquid to solid. 

3. The preservative used is the vinegar. Sweetening and spices 
are added for fhnor rather than any preservative qualities, except 
in the case of sweet pickles, where the amount of sugar used is 
sufficient to help in the preservation. The amount and kind of 
spices are varied according to taste. The vinegar should be of a 
good grade to insure good pickles. Older vinegar is the most de- 
sirable for pickle making. Agate or porcelain-lined kettles shoidd 
be used to avoid the action of the vinegar on metals. 

4. Crisp vegetables, such as cabbage, cauliflower, onions, green 
beans, green tomatoes, and pepi)ers, either singly or in any desired 
])roportion, may be used for jjickles. Firm fruits, such as apples, 
peaches, pears, and melon rind, are suitable for pickling. Relishes 
are made of various highly seasoned combinations of green or ripo 



184 L'SE AXD PREPARATION OF FOOD. 

fruits or vegetalile;^, sometimes left in pieces and in some cases 
cooked to a pulp and strained. 

5. Steps in pickling: 

A. Eemoval of excess Avater. — A'egetables used for pickle making- 
are more than four-fifths Avater. Unless some of this is removed 
liefore the vinegar is added, it Avill weaken the vinegar so the pickles 
will not keep. The water may be removed by : 

(1) Salt brining. — Vegetables may be soaked overnight or 

longer in a strong brine (1 pint salt to 1 gallon water.) 

(2) Dry salting. — Sliced vegetables may be placed in layers, 

salt sprinkled between the layers, and left to drain. 

(3) Mechanical pressure. — Finely chopped vegetables may be 

pressed in a bag or a press to remove excess water. 

(4) Combination of dry salting and mechanical pressure. — • 

Vegetables may be dry salted, as in 2, and then pressed 
in a bag or press to remove the water. 

(5) In the case of some fruit pickles, where the use of salt to 

extract the water would add an undesirable flavor, the 
w^ater is removed by evaporation during the process of 
cooking. 

(6) Unless the vegetable is to be left for some time in brine 

as a preservative, or unless the salt is used to control 
fermentation, avoid using so nmch salt that it is neces- 
sary to soak the vegetables in water before the vinegar 
is added. When this is done, some of the water content 
is replaced in the vegetables. "Where it is necessary to 
remove excess salt, as in the case. of vegetables which 
have been long in brine, the vegetables may be soaked 
in vinegar so that it enters the cells in place of the water 
which has been removed. 
0. ]Metliods of adding vinegar and flavoring material. — In order 
that the vinegar and the flavoring material ma}' thoroughly pene- 
trate the cells the pickle must either be finely chopped, so that the 
cells are broken, or heated sufficiently to allow the pickling fluid to 
pass through the cell walls. Long cooking is not desirable. If 
cooked too long, or at too high a temperature, pickles lose the fresh, 
crisp taste, which is one of their desirable attributes. The seasoned 
vinegar may be added by one of the following methods: 

A. Heat the material just to the boiling point in the seasoned vine- 
gar. This method should be used Avhen the material is in large pieces. 

B. Heat the seasoned vinegar and pour over the material. Drain 
off and reheat if necessary. 

C. Finely chopped materials may be covered w'ith cold, seasoned 
vinegar. Xo heating is necessary if the excess water has been suffi- 
ciently removed. 



USE AND pr?:paration" of food. 185 

D. Fruits may be treated as in (A) or (B). If niiicli water is pres- 
ent, some cooking" may be necessary for evaporation. 

7. Method of storing pickles. — Sealing is a convenient way of stor- 
ing pickles, but it is not necessary. They will keep in crocks, stone 
jars, or similar containers if the liquid comes well above the surface 
of the pickles. Weight, if necessary. Keep the container well 
covered. If mold appears, it should be carefully skimmed off, and the 
vinegar drained off, reheated, and poured back, or fresh vinegar used. 

METHOD OF DEVELOPING LABORATOIJY WOIUv. 

Discuss good coriibinations of vegetables or suitable fruits for 
pickle making. Emphasize the fact that pickle making should" not 
in any sense take the place of canning or drying, which preserves 
more of the food value, but that it offers a way of conserving vege- 
tables in the late fall which will not mature before frost, and of 
supplying a.vai'ifition in texture and flavor to the diet. 

Any of the recipes given below ma}' be used for demonstration or 
class practice. Where it is desirable to save sugar, molasses or sorg- 
hum may be substituted for brown sugar in spiced pickles, using 
three-fourths cup of sorghum in place of one cup brown sugar. 

SWEET SPICED VIKEGAK. 

Vinegar, 1 pint. Mixed spices, 1 ounce. 

Sugar, 2 pounds. 

SOUR SPICED VINEGAR. 

Vinegar, 1 quart. Allspice, i tablespoon. 

1 red pepper. Cloves, i tablespoon. 

i stick cinnanHiii. 

CHOWCHOW. 

Ripe tomatoes, 1 peck. Ciiniainon, 5 teaspoons. 

Green tomatoes, li pecks. 4 hot peppers. 

Sweet peppers, IJ dozen. Sugar, G cups. 

White mustard seed, 3 tablespoons. Vinegar, 1 gallon. 

Onions, 1 dozen. (Jrated horseradish, H cups. 

Celery seed, 5 teaspoons. 

Chop the vegetables. Sjirinkle with a cup of salt and drain overnight. Heat 
the seasoned vinegar to the boiling point and pour over the vegetables. Add 
horseradish last. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

Ripe tomatoes, 2 quarts. Ginger, 1 tablespoon. 

4 green sweet peppers. Salt, 2 tablespoons. 

Bi'own sugar, 4 tablespoons. Cinnamon, 1 teaspoon. 

1 hot pepper. Nutmeg, i teaspoon. 

4 onions. 

Chop the vegetables, add other ingredients, and cook until tender. Add 3 
cups vinegar, boil five minutes and seal. 



186 USE AND PFvEPARATION OF FOOD. 

WATERMKLON RIND SWEKT nCKLE. 

Trim off the green and red parts, cut the rind into suitable pieces, and coolc 
until tender in salt water (1 teaspoon salt to 1 quart water). Drain and cook 
until clear in the following sirup: 

Sugar, 3 cups. Cloves, 1 teaspoon. 

Vinegar, 3 cups. Cinnamon, 2 teaspoons. 

DIXIE RELISH. 

Cabbage, chopped, 1 quart. Mustard seed, 4 tablespoons. 

White onion, chopped, 1 pint. Celery seed, 2 tablespoons. 

Sweet red pepper, chopped, 1 pint. Sugar, J cup. 

Sweet green pepper, chopped, 1 pint. Cider vinegar, 1 quart. 
Salt," 5 tablespoons. 

Soak the peppers in brine (water, 1 gallon; salt, 1 cup) f<»r 24 hours. 
Freshen for two hours in cold water. Drain, remove white sections and seeds. 
Chop all vegetables separately, measure, mix, and add vinegar, sugar, and 
spices. Let stand overnight in a crock or enameled dish. Just before packing, 
drain oft* the vinegar to facilitate packing. Pack the relish in jars, pressing 
it down tliorouglily ; add the drained-olf vinegar, being sure that all the air i.s 
forced out of the jar and replaced by vinegar. Process for l.j niintes at 82° G. 
(1S0° F.). 

CHERRY PICKLES. 

Seed the cherries. Let stand overnight with cup of sugar to each quart of 
cherries. Drain off juice and bottle. Pour over the cherries a hot, sweet. 
Sluiced vinegar (see proportions aliove), using the cherry juice which drains 
from the fiuit to take the place of a part of the vinegar. Seal. 



Lesson 7. Salting and Fekmentation. 

AIM. 

To show how vegetables may be preserved by salting or by fermen- 
tation ami to give methods of preparing such vegetables for the table. 

POINTS TO BE BROUGHT OUT. 

1. Salting and fermentation are two simple methods of controlling^ 
food spoilage. In the process of salting sufficient salt is added to 
the food to prevent all growth of organisms. In the process of fer- 
mentation, a small amount of salt is added and fermentation allowed 
to take place. When sufficient lactic acid has been formed in the 
food, it checks fermentation and prevents further change in the 
material. 

A. Ad\antages: 

(1) They are easy methods by which a large quantity of 
food can be kept with a small amount of labor and expense. 

(2) They give wholesome products with distinctive flavors. 



USE AND rKEPAKATION OF FOOD. 187 

(3) Food SO preserved is easily stored. It docs not need to be 
sealed but may be kept in barrels, crocks, stone jars, etc. 

{-It) Xo additional e(iiiipiuent is required beyond that usually 
found in any kitchen. 
B. Disadvantao-es: 

(1) These methods of preservation are not suited to all 
products. 

(2) There is a decided change of flavor in the material which 
soiue people do not like. 

(3) There is some loss of food value, especially if the ma- 
terial is soaked in preparation for the table to remove any ex- 
cess salt or acid. 

(4) A cool place is required for storage. 

(5) Some attention is necessaiy to prevent the growth of 
mold on the surface and the consequent spoiling of the top layer 
of food. 

2. Directions for preserving vegetables by salting: 

A. Vegetables are washed, drained, and weighed. Use one-fourtli 
as much salt, by weight, and pack in alternate layers with a layer of 
salt on top. Cover with a plate or a wooden cover slightly smaller 
than the container, and weight. The salt and juices of the vege- 
tables will form a brine strong enough to prevent fermentation or 
spoilage. If sufficient brine to cover is not formed, strong brine 
should be added, made in the proportion of 1 pound of salt to 2 
quarts of water. 

B. Treatment of the surface to prevent growth of mold. — If mold 
is alloAved to grow on the surface it will weaken the brine so that 
material will not keep. This may be prevented by one of the fol- 
loAving methods: 

(1) "Watch the bi'ine and skim off any film or mold as it ap- 
pears. The cover should also be scalded. 

(2) A layer of melted paraffin may be poured over th-e surface 
to exclude the air. This will prevent formation of mold. Care 
must be tuken not to break the paraffin in moving the container, 
else it must be removed, reheated, and poured back to form an 
airtight seal. 

(3) The brined vegetable may be packed in a tight keg or 
barrel, the head put into place, and brine added until no air 
space renuiins. If the container is water-tight the vegetable will 
keep indefinitely with no further attention. 

C. Vegetables which may be kept by salting. — (Jrecns, beet tops, 
turnip tops, spinach, chard, kale, cabbage, string beans, peas, and 



138 rSE AXD PREPAY ATIOX OF FOOD. 

corn. Peas should be shelled before being salted. Beans should be 
strung and cut into pieces. Corn should be cooked until the milk is 
-set, then cut from the cob and packed. 

3. Directions for preserving vegetal)les by fermentation with dry 
salting : 

A. Vegetables containing a large proportion of water may be 
treated as in dry salting, using 3 pounds of salt to 100 pounds of vege- 
table. Cover, weight and set aside to ferment. The time required 
for fermentation depends principally upon the temperature. In 
warm weather it will require eight to ten days. In cool weather it 
will require two to four weeks. Fermentation is complete when 
bubbles no longer rise to the surface. The surface should then be 
treated as directed in 2B to prevent growth of mold. This process is 
suited to such vegetables as string beans, beet tops, turnip tops, and 
cabbage, and is the method used in making sauer kraut. 

B. Fermentation in brine. — Vegetables containing a smaller 
amount of water may be fermented by covering with a weak brine 
made in the j^roportion of 1 gallon of water, li pints of vinegar, and 
three-fourths cup salt. Weight, allow to ferment as in A, and treat 
to prevent mold. This method is used for such vegetables as cucum- 
bers, green beans, or peas. 

4. Methods of preparing salted or fermented vegetables for the 
table : 

A. Salted vegetables should be soaked in several changes of water 
to remove the excess salt, then prepared as for fresh vegetables. There 
is necessarily some loss of food value and original flavor. 

B. Fermented vegetables should be cooked without soaking, if an 
acid flavor is desired. If preferred, this acid flavor may be partially 
removed by soaking before cooking as for salted vegetables. 

METHOD OF DEVELOriNG LABORATORY WORK. 

This lesson may be used as a demonstration or as a class practice. 
One salted vegetable, such as greens or beans, and one fermented 
vegetable, such as sauer kraut, may be prepared. Since the process of 
fermentation requires some days the students should be required from 
time to time to note the progress of the process and see that the 
growth of mold is properly controlled. 

If preferred, the students may be required to preserve vegetables 
at home by salting and by fermentation, and to report the results to 
the class. 

The remainder of the laboratory period should be used finishing the 
pickles started during the previous lesson. 



USE a:n^d preparation of food. 189 

Lesson 8. Dkyino Fruits and Vegetables. 

AIM, 

To show an easy, economical, and satisfactory method of preserv- 
ing fruits and vegetables by sun drying or drying by artificial heat. 

POINTS TO BE BROUGHT OUT. 

1. Drying consists of removing sufficient moisture from the product 
so that the organisms can not grow and multiply in it. Sufficient 
heat is necessary to evaporate the moisture and a current of air to 
remove it from the surface. In home drying this may be done by 
(1) sun heat, (2) artificial heat, or by (3) air heat, or by a combina- 
tion of these. Some autliorities recommend blanching of all products 
before drying. Where this is done it should be for short time to 
prevent loss of soluble constituents. Blanching lessens the possibility 
of enzymatic changes and so improves the appearance and the keep- 
ing qualit}'. 

2. Advantages of drving: 

A. In the process of drying, only the water is removed ; therefore 
the food value of the product is preserved. 

B. An}^ quantity-, large or small, or a variety of products may be 
handled at one time. 

C. The process requires little equipment, which may easily be made 
at home. 

D. It requires little time and attention. 

E. Dried products require no special type of container, but may be 
stored in containers which can be found in any home. 

F. Drying reduces the bulk and weight of the product, enabling it 
to be easily handled or shipped or stored in a small space. 

Tdhle sJioiriiin reduction in ivviyht by driiing. 
[Adapted from Farmers" Bulletin 984.] 

Apples, 100 ixnmds; reduce to 10 to 15 pounds. 
Beans, 1(H) pounds; reduce to 11 to 13 pounds. 
Corn, 100 pounds ; reduce to 22 to 33 pounds. 
Okra, 100 pounds; reduce to 10 to 11 pounds. 
Peaches, 100 pounds; reduce to 13 to IG pound.'?. 
Peas, 100 poynds ; reduce to 22 to 20 pounds. 
Pumpkins. 100 pounds ; reduce to G to 8 pounds. 
Berries, 100 pounds; reduce to IG to 23 pounds. 
Spinach, 100 potuids ; reduce to 8 to 10 pounds. 
Tomatoes, 100 pounds ; reduce to 64 to 9 pounds. 

Note. — The variations depend upon the age and moisture content of the product as well 
OS the method of preparation, paring, etc. 

3. Methods of drying: 
A. Sun drying — 

(1) This is a simple and econoniical method because it re- 
quires little equipment and there is no expense for fuel, but it is 
slow because the heat is not sufTicient for rapid evaporation. 



190 USE AND PEEPARATIOlSr OF FOOD. 

(2) It requires considerable handling of the product since it 
must be protected from dew or rain. 

(3) It is an uncertain method, because a cloudy or rainy day 
early in the process of drying- may cause spoilage. 

(4) The product has a good flavor, but is dark in color and is 
frequently exposed to dust and insects. 

B. Drying by artificial heat — 

(1) A more rapid method than sun drying but more expensiA'e, 
since fuel is necessary. 

(2) Requires attention to keep the product from overheating. 

(3) May be done independently of weather conditions. 

(4) The product retains its natural color better than when 
sun dried, and may easily be protected from dust and insects. 

C. Drying by an air blast^ — 

(1) Xot so rapid a method as drying by artificial heat, but 
somewhat more rapid than sun drying. 

(2) Requires some special equipment which may already be 
found in the home. An electric fan may be used to furnish the 
air current. 

(3) The rapid circulation of air keeps the product cool and 
this aids in retaining color and avoiding spoilage. 

4. Types of driers : 

A. For sun drying — 

(1) Clean boards, trays, cloth, and paper may be used )n 
which to spread the material. 

(2) Shallow traj^s may be used, or speciall}" constructed frames 
covered with glass to protect from dust and insects. Small 
screened openings in the side provide for a circulation of air 
to remove the moisture. 

B. For drying by artificial heat — 

(1) The oven of an ordinary stove may be used, the materials 
being placed in shallow pans or trays. The door should be left 
partly open. It is difficult to gauge the heat by this method, and 
there is little circulation of air. 

(2) Specially constructed driers of various types may be 
made of shallow trays placed one above the other and designed 
to be stood upon the top of a stove or other heating arrange- 
ment or be hung above it. The bottom of the trays are of small 
meshed wire, so that the current of warm air may pass up 
through the material and out at the top of the drier. 

(3) A variation of the above type has a tray which is heated 
by a pan of warm water, thus maintaining an even temperature 
with no danjrer of overheatinjr. 



USE AND TREPAEATIOlSr OF FOOD. 191 

C. For drying with an air blast, — Open trays may be usod or trays 
placed in tiers, leaving- a small space between so that the bhist of air 
may readily r-each the material. 

5. Steps in drying: 

A. Preparation of material— 

(1) Fruits or vegetables should be cleaned and prepared as for 
cooking. Root vegetables should be pared. Peas should bo 
hulled and beans strung. Fruit may or may not have the skins 
removed. 

(2) Small fruits or vegetables may be dried whole. Large 
fruits and vegetables should be divided into pieces of uniform 
size and shape, both for greater rapidity in drying and for con- 
A-enience in preparation for the table. When large ({uantities 
are being handled, some type of vegetable slicer will save time. 

(3) Vegetables Hre sometimes blanched (Lesson 2) to soften 
the fiber and shorten the time of drying and set the color, but 
this process is not essential to successful drying. In the case 
of corn, it is better to blanch or precook until the milk is set 
before cutting from the cob in order to avoid waste. 

B. Drying — 

(1) In sun drying the material should be spread in thin layers 
in the direct sunshine, and stirred occasionally until sufficiently 
dry. 

(2) In drying by artificial heat the material should be placed 
in thin layers in the drier and drying begun at a temperature of 
43° C. (110"^ F.). This temperature is graduallv raised to 
63° C. (145° F.). (See Farmers' Bulletin 811 for variations in 
temperature for different products.) The time required for 
drying by this method will vary from two to four hours, depend- 
ing upon the kind of product, size, and shape of the pieces, and 
the temperature maintained. The material should be stirred 
occasionalh' and the trays changed so that they are heated alike. 

(3) Drving by air blast. — The material is placed where the 
direct current of air will reach every piece and is left until 
sufficiently dry, being stirred occasionally. 

C. Tests for dryness. — Fruits and vegetables should be dried uni- 
forml}' throughout, but need not be so dry that they snap or crackle. 
The}' are sufficiently dry when broken edges show no moisture or 
"when the pieces readily fall apart when several are compressed in 
the hand. 

C). Storing di'ied products: 

A. Dried products should be allowed to dry uniformly before 
being packed. Stir occasionally. The length of time will depend 
Vipon climate and altitude. 



192 USE AND PREPAEATIOX OF FOOD. 

B. Sun-dried products which have been exposed to insects should 
be heated to 82° C. (180° F.) before being packed. This will 
destroy any eggs of insects which would otherwise develop in the 
dried product and spoil it. 

C. Any type of light and insect proof containers may be used for 
storage, such as tin cans, paper bags, pastboard boxes, or paraffin 
paper cartons. They should be kept in a cool, well-ventilated place. 

7. Method of cooking dried products. (See Unit II, Lesson 2.) 

METHOD OF DEVICLOPIXG LABORATOKY WORK. 

If a homemade or commercial drier can be obtained, the students 
should dry a vegetable and a fruit, using the directions in Farmers' 
Bulletin 841. Choose for this work a fruit and a vegetable not com- 
monly dried in the communit3\ Ask the students to list the products 
which are dried in their homes and to make a second list of products 
which might be dried advantageously. 

Discuss with them the comparative advantages of canning and 
drying and the products which are especially suited to each method. 
If time is available, a dried fruit and a dried vegetable should be 
cooked and compared with the canned product as to (1) cost, (2) 
ease of preparation, (3) flavor, and (4) food value. 



Lesson 9. Home Storage of Fruits and Vegetables; Preservation 

OF Eggs. 



aims. 

{a) To give directions for the successful home storing of fruits and 
vegetables. 

(6) To show the jnethods of preserving eggs in waterglass. 

POINTS TO BE brought OUT. 

1. Storage of fruits and vegetables : 

A. Fruits and some vegetables, if properly stored, may be kept for 
weeks or months, and may be used in the fresh state as an economical 
and healthful source of food. 

B. The main requisites for proper storage are : 

(1) A suitable temperature. — This varies with the type of 
fruit or vegetables, some requiring considerable warmth, others 
keeping best at a temperature just above freezing. 

(2) Circulation of air. 

(3) Control of moisture conditions. — Sufficient moisture 
should be present to prevent shrinkage, but not enough to cause 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 193 

mold. A few types of fruit and vegetables require dry atmos- 
phere. 
C. Types of storage: 

(1) Basement cellars. — Suitable if cool and well ventilated. 
A furnace in the room will make the air too warm and dry unless 
a partition is put in. Windows or a ventilator will provide cir- 
culation of air. Barrels, crates, boxes, or bins may be used for 
containers. 

(2) Outdoor cellars or caves. — Inexpensive, but verj^ satisfac- 
tory. May be built entirely or partially below the ground or 
above the ground, according to the severity of the climate. May 
be kept at a uniform temperature for a long period. The door 
and a ventilator will provide for circulation of air. If floor is of 
earth, sufficient moisture will be present to prevent shrinkage of 
vegetables. 

(3) Outdoor pits. — May be made by choosing a well-drained 
location, digging a shallow pit 6 to 8 inches deep, and lining it 
with straw or leaves. The vegetables are placed on the litter in a 
cone-shaped or long A-shaped pile, covered with straw and then 
with a few inches of dirt, the depth varying with the severity of 
the climate. In a small pit the strav^ should extend through the 
dirt at the top, thus furnishing a space for ventilation. In a 
large pit a small board flue should be placed in the center for this 
purpose. If several kinds of vegetables are to be stored at the 
same time they may be stored in layers, so that when the side of 
the pit is opened any vegetable may be reached with no difficulty. 

(4) Attic or other dry, warm room. — This is satisfactory for a 
few types of vegetables which are very susceptible to cold or 
moisture. 

D. Method of storage used for different types of fruit and vege- 
tables: 

(1) Apples, beets, carrots, potatoes, parsnips, salsify, or simi- 
lar root crops may be stored in an indoor or outdoor cellar or in 
pits. They will keep with little difficulty. 

(2) Cabbage or turnips should be stored in an outdoor cellar 
or pit, as the odor is disagreeable if stored in a cellar beneath the 
house. Slight freezing will not injure them. 

(3) Sweet potatoes should be kept dry and not allowed to 
chill. Dig on a dry, warm day, dry out thoroughly for a week 
or 10 daj's, and store in a warm, dry room, such as an attic, near 
the chimney, or in the basement near the furnace. They are 
sometimes buried in sawdust, oats, or shavings, or wrapped in 
paper to avoid any moisture. 

128209°— 19 13 



194 USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 

(4) Onions should be thoroughly dried out and stored in a 
dry, well- ventilated room; a slight freezing will not injure 
them. 

(5) Pumplxins and squashes require a dry, well-ventilated 
room, with a moderately cool temperature. Do not let them 
touch each other as moisture will form at the point of contact 
and cause decay. 

(6) Pears may be gathered when mature but still hard, 
wrapped in paper, and kept in a cool, dry place to ripen. 

(7) Tomatoes may be kept for weeks if the mature green 
tomatoes axe carefully picked just before frost and laid to ripen 
on straw or similar material where they will not freeze. A 
similar method is to pull up the vines and hang them, top down- 
ward, in a cellar where they will not freeze. The tomatoes will 
ripen gradually as the vines dry. 

(8) Dried peas and beans may be stored in bags in a dry, 
well- ventilated place. If thoroughly heated to 63° C. (145° F.) 
before storing all eggs of insects will be destroyed. 

E. General suggestions for storing: 

(1) Vegetables or fruits chosen for storage should be sound, 
mature, but not overripe. 

(2) Several small containers are better than one large one, 
since the weight of the upper layers tends to bruise the lower 
layers. 

(3) Stored fruit or vegetables should be picked over occasion- 
ally and any showing signs of spoilage removed. 

2. Preservation of eggs: 

A. Methods of preserving eggs. — Eggs may be satisfactorily 
preserved so that they may be had in greater abundance during a 
time of scarcity or when price prevents their frequent use. There 
are many ways of home preservation, such as packing in grain 
or sawdust or preserving in water glass, the length of time before 
spoilage occurs depending upon the method used. The latter method 
is most successful, and eggs so preserved may be kept for as long a 
time as a year. They are practically as good as fresh eggs for all 
cooking purposes. The whites beat up. Conmiercial eggs are pre- 
served by keeping in cold storage, freezing, caiming, or by reducing 
to powdered form. 

B. Choice of eggs for preservation: 

(1) Eggs should be preserved during March, April, May, and 
June, when the production is greatest and the quality best. 

(2) Only absolutely fresh eggs should be preserved. If there 
is any doubt as to the freshness of eggs, candle them or see 
whether they sink when placed in a dish of fresh water. If an 
egg floats or tends to float, it is not fresh. 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 195 

(3) Eggs which are dirty or have been washed should not be 
used. Washing removes the protective gelatinous coating. 
Dirty eggs will have a tainted flavor. 

(4) Spring eggs keep better than summer or fall eggs. In- 
fertile eggs are better than fertile eggs for preserving. 

C. Preservation of eggs in water glass. — Water glass may be ob- 
tained in the form of a powder. It should be dissolved in an amount 
of water as stated in directions on the package. Commercial water- 
glass solution may be obtained from any drug store but is less re- 
liable since it varies in concentration more than the other form. If 
the commercial water-glass solution is to be used, mix 1| quarts with 
18 quarts of pure water; water that has been boiled is preferable. 
Stir the mixture until the ingredients are thoroughly mixed. A stone 
jar is the most suitable vessel for the mixture. Two 8-gallon jars are 
sufficient for 30 dozen eggs, using amount of solution just prescribed. 
After the water glass is thoroughh' mixed pour it into the vessels to 
be used, being sure tliat the vessels are absolutely clean. Place the 
eggs in the water glass, see that those at the top are submerged under 
at least 2 inches of the liquid, and cover the jars in order to prevent 
evaporation. Put the jars in a cool place where the}^ will be undis- 
turbed during the year. Do not use the same liquid preservative 
more than one 3"ear. 

D. Use of eggs preserved in water glass : 

(1) Eggs should not be left in the preservative more than one 
year. 

(2) Rinse the eggs with water after removing from the pre- 
servative. 

(3) Eggs that are in good condition when removed from 
water-glass solution will remain good for at least two weeks. 

(4) If eggs are to be boiled prick a small hole through the 
large end of the shell before placing them in the water. The 
pores of the shell have been sealed by the water-glass solution, 
and without the pinhole the expanding air within the shell would 
burst it. 

METHCH) or DEVELOPING LABORATORY WORK. 

This lesson may oe used as a lecture and class discussion, with a 
demonstration by the teacher on the preservation of eggs in water 
glass. If it is possible to obtain eggs that have been preserved by 
this method for some months one should be broken and compared 
with a fresh egg, then cooked and compared with the cooked fresh 
egg. The class may be asked to calculate the cost per dozen of eggs 
stored by this method as compared to the cost of fresh eggs during 
December and January. 



196 USE AND PREPAKATION OF FOOD. 

Lesson 10. Preservation of Meat. 

AIM. 

To give methods suitable for use in tlie liome preservation of meat. 

points to be brought out. 

1. Reasons for home preservation of meat : 

A. Takes care of a surpkis and avoids waste. 

B. The home-preserved product, if carefully handled, has a 
superior flavor. 

C. Saves transportation. Families selling fresh meat and then 
buying cured meat for home use are putting a double burden on 
transportation. 

2. Methods of preservation : 

A. Canning — 

(1) Method. — Meat may be canned by the same process that 
is used for vegetables. (Lesson 2.) Either of the following 
methods may be used : 

(a) Cut into convenient pieces and pack raw into the jar. 
Add one teaspoon salt to each quart, and fill jar with boiling 
water. Sterilize four hours in water-bath canner or one 
hour under 10 pounds pressure. 

(2) Adapted to any fresh meat, poultry, fish, or game. May 
be used also for left-over meats or meat soups. 

(h) Cook as usual until three-fourths done. (Bake, boil^ 
fry, etc.) Pack into jars, add salt and the liquid from the 
cooked meat (or hot water). Sterilize three and one-half 
hours in water-bath canner or one hour under 10 pounds' 
pressure. 

B. Partial cooking and packing in hot fat may be used for preserv- 
ing cooked meats during the cold winter months. 

(1) Method. — Meat is cut into pieces of suitable size, cooked 
by dry heat (fried or baked) until nearly done, then packed 
in a jar and covered with hot lard. Should be well covered and 
kept in a cool, dark place. 

(2) Suitable for pork sausage, spare ribs, or loin. 

C. Curing — 

(1) Ingredients used in curing meat: 

(a) Salt. — A good preservative when used liberally, but 
tends to dry out and harden the tissues. 

(b) Sugar. — A preservative when used in large quan- 
tities; usually added for the flavor. Molasses or brown 
sugar are frequently used. 



VSE AISTD PREPARATION OF FOOD. 197 

(c) Pepper. — Used chiefly for flavor, since the small 
quantity used is not sufficient for preservation. Not soluble, 
hence is used only in dry cures. 

(d) Saltpeter. — Sometimes used to preserve the red color 
of meat, but neither necessary nor desirable. 

(e) Borax. — Undesirable and unnecessary, ^^^len used, it 
hardens the tissues and causes waste of much of the outside 
of the meat. It is used to prevent infection of the meat by 
insects. 

(2) Dry curing — 

(a) Method. — A mixture of salt, sugar, and pepper in 
the proportions of 40 pounds salt, 10 pounds sugar, 4 pounds 
white or black pepper, and one-half pound red pepper are 
used to 1,000 pounds fresh meat. A larger proportion of the 
mixture is used to the same amount of meat in the southern 
States. The cure should be rubbed thoroughly over the meat 
and left until meat is thoroughly preserved (from one and 
one-half to two days for each pound of meat). 

(h) Suitable for pork, especially hams, shoulders, bacon, 
and Dixie squares.^ 

(3) Brine curing — 

(a) Method. — A brine made in the proportion of 8 pounds 
of salt to 2 gallons of Avater (or 7 pounds salt and 2 pounds 
sugar to 2 gallons of water if a sweet cure is desired) may 
be used to cover meat which has been rubbed well with salt 
and packed in a barrel. Meat should be repacked and 
covered with the same brine after several days, so that all 
parts of the meat may be reached by the brine. Time re- 
quired is same as for dry cure. 

(h) Suitable for pork, such as bacon, hams, shoulders, and 
Dixie squares,^ or for "corned" beef (plate, rump, cross 
ribs, or brisket). 

(4) Smoking. — Dry or brine cured meats are often smoked 
to aid in their preservation (by means of the creosote from 
the smoke) and to add flavor. The pieces are washed to remove 
the outside salt, dried, and hung in the smoke from a small 
fire until sufficiently colored. The time varies from a few 
days to two weeks, depending upon the degree of flavor desired 
and whether a continuous or intermittent fire is kept. Hickory 
is considered the most desirable, but any wood may be used for 
the fire except pine, which deposits a black soot on the meat. 

' Dixie squares are square pieces of the jowl of tbe pig. 



198 USE AND PEBPAEATION OF FOOD. 

(5) Storing cured meat. — Cured or smoked meat sliould first 
be wrapped in cloth, which will protect the meat from injury 
by mold; then inclosed in a paper sack to protect it from in- 
sects. It should then be hung out of reach of mice or rats, in 
a place with a good circulation of air. A damp room, such as 
a cellar, is not satisfactory for storing meat. 

D. Drying — 

(1) In an arid climate, meat such as beef or venison may be 
dried by exposing it fresh to the air, taking care to protect it 
from insects. 

(2) In less dry climates the meat may be rubbed with a dry 
cure, packed into jars and allowed to stand in the liquid formed 
for nine days, repacking and rubbing Avith the cure every three 
days. Remove from the cure, smoke, and hang in a dry room 
or near a fire. 

E. Utilization of by-products. — By-products, such as trimmings 
of beef or j)ork heads, feet, tails, hearts, liver, and similar parts, 
may be preserved for later use by being made into various types 
of sausage, headcheese, or scrapple. The headcheese or scrapple 
can be kept only a short while; the sausage may be kept for sev- 
eral months by being stuffed into casings and smoked, or into cloth 
bags, the outside of the bag being rubbed with melted lard or 
paraffin. 

METHOD OF DEVELOPING LABOHATORY WORK. 

Unless this lesson can be given at a time when an actual demonstra- 
tion on curing meat may be attended in some home, the lesson may 
be given as a lecture by the teacher. For laboratory work, poultry or 
fish may be canned according to the directions given, or any of the 
recipes below may be tried in class or used at home and reported in 
class. 

SALTSAGE. 

Use choice trimmings, about one-fourtli to one-third fat. Porlj and beef or 
porli and rabbit may be combined. To 100 povmds of meat add 2 pounds of 
salt, 3 ounces white pepper, 3 ounces ground sage and J ounce red pepper. Mix 
well with the meat before grinding. Stuff in casing or cloth bags, or fry dowii 
and cover with hot fat or can by any suitable method. 

LI\^R SAUSAGE. 

Use meat and skin from heads, feet, and tails about equal in weight to the 
amount of livers. Scald the livers 10 to 15 minutes in boiling water ; cook the 
other meats thoroughly. Season well with salt, pepper, and other spices if 
desired. Add 5 pounds of red dog flour to 100 pounds of the meat; moisten 
well with the liquor and grind fine. Stuff in casings and cook for half an hour. 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 199 



HEADCHEESE. 



Cook a cleaned hog's head until the meat falls from the bones. Chop the 
meat, season well, add enough of the liquor to make moist, and spread in a 
dish or pan to set. If desired, the feet, tails, heart, stomachs, and similar 
parts may be used with the heads. 



Make as for headcheese, cooking the meat tender, removing from the bone 
and separating it into small pieces. Add the liquor, return to the stove, and 
stir in corn meal or a mixture of one-half corn meal, one-fourth wheat middlings; 
and one-fourth buckwheat flour, until it makes thick mush. Cook slowly for 
an hour, pour into shallow pans to cool, and mold. It may be sliced thin an.i 
fried. 

REFERENCES. 

United States Department of Agriculture : 

Farmers' Bulletin No. 830. Marketing Eggs by Parcel Post. 

Farmers' Bulletin No. 839. Home Canning by the One-Period Cold-Pack 

Method. 
Farmers' Bulletin No. 853. — Home Canning of Fruits and Vegetables as 

Taught to Canning Club Members in Southern States. 
Farmers' Bulletin No. 375. The Care of Food in the Home. 
United States Department of Agriculture, Othce of Extension Work, South. 

A-89. Jelly and .Jelly Making. 
Farmers' Bulletin No. 900. Homemade Fruit Butters. 
Farmers' Bulletin No. 881. Preservation of Vegetables by Fermentation 

and Salting. 
States Relation Service — Circular A-92. Home Canning of Meats and 

Sea Foods with the Steam-Pressure Canuer. 
Farmers' Bulletin No. 879. Home Storage of Vegetables. 
Farmers' Bulletin No. 548. Storing and Marketing Sweet Potatoes. 
Farmers' Bulletin No. 984. Farm and Home Drying of Fruits and Vege- 
tables. 
Farmers' Bulletin No. 841. Drying Fruits and Vegetables in the Home, 

with Recipes for Cooking. 
Bulletin No. 471. Eggs and their Value as Food. 

Animal Industry Circular G-25. The Candling and Preservation of Eggs. 
Department Bulletin 241. Studies on Fruit .Juices. 
United States Food Aaministration Leaflets (see note at end of Lesson 6, 
Unit II) : 

Canning Fruit Without Sugar. 

Jelly, Fruit Juices, and Leathers. 

Preserving Vegetables by Salting, Drying, and Storing. 



UNIT X. 

Food for the Family.* 

Lesson 1. How to Estimate the Food Needs of the Body. 

AIM. 

To give a practical method by which the housekeeper can estimate 
the foods needed per person per day. 

POI^'Ts TO be brought out. 

1. Function of foods in the body : 

A. The body must be supplied with sufficient food of the proper 

Ivhid. — 

(1) To provide all of the substances essential for normal 

growth and health. 

(2) To supply fuel for the day's work and for the maintenance 
of the body temperature. 

(3) To furnish material to build the body and to replace those 
parts which are constantly wearing out. 

(4) To regulate all the processes of the bod}', and to keep it 
in good running order. 

2. Classification of foods: 

A. The five classes of foods which will supply all these needs are 
usually referred to on the basis of their composition. In planning 
her daily menu it is simj)ler for the housekeej)er to classify foods as 
they appear on the market and remember that some foods from each 
gi'Dup should be supplied to each person each day. 

Group I. Fruits and vegetables (including potatoes). 

Group II. Meat, poultry, fish, eggs, cheese, and milk. 

Group III. Cereals (including bread and baked goods) and 
legumes. 

Group IV. Sugar and other sweet foods. 

Group V. Butter, cream, and other fats. 

3. Body requirements estimated in pounds and ounces: 

A. The body requirements of food are frequentl}' measured in 
amount of protein and of calories. This requires some time and cal- 
cidsition. Since foods are usually purchased on the basis of weight 

' This unit has been preparoil from unpublished nialciial by the Home Economics 
OfiBce, Department of Agriculture. 

200 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 



201 



it is easier for the housekeeper to estimate the food requirement for 
lier family on that basis. The average estimate given below may be 
used as a guide. It represents the normal diet which does not take 
into special consideration either cost or conservation of any group of 
foods. The limits of variation show how many different combina- 
tions are possible by increasing the amount of food chosen from some 
groups and decreasing that from other groups. 



Food (or one day (or a man of average sice doing moderately active tcorlc (Hunt). 



Food. 


Daily allowance. 


Safe limits of 
variation. 


Group I. Frosh fruits or vegetables or their equivalent in 
canned or dried material (1 pound dried is equivalent to 5 
pounds fresh). 

Group II. Meat, fish, poultry, eggs, or cheese or their equiva- 
lent in milk (1 pint milk is equivalent to 4 ounces meat, etc.). 

Group III. Cereals and legumes (dry weight) or their equiva- 
lent in bread (^ pound bread is equivalent to 1 pound cereal). 

Group IV. Sugar or the eqmvalcnt in other sweets (|-ounce 
Sirup is equivalent to l-oimce sugar). 

Group v. Butter or other fats or the equivalent in cream (4- 
ounee cream is equivalent to 1-ounce butter). 




i to 5 pounds. 
6 to 14 ounces. 


12 ounces 










do 


Do. 



B. This amount of food insures approximately 3 ounces of pro- 
tein and 2f ounces of fat, and gives a total fuel value of 3,300 
calories. 

4. Method of estimating food requirements for different members 
of the family : 

A. The amount of food required for a person varies with the age, 
size, and especially with the amount of muscular work done. For 
practical purposes, the amount of food needed for any member of 
the family may be calculated from the average ration suggested in 
3 A by using the table given below : 

Table for estimating food requirement for different individuals. 

For a man at hard muscular work allow 1.1 to 1.2 times the average ration. 

For a woman at hard muscular work allow 0.9 to 1 times the average ration. 

For a man at moderate work allow 1 times the average ration. 

For a woman at moderate work allow 0.8 times the average ration. 

For a man at sedentary work allow 0.8 times the average ration. 

For a woman at sedentary work allow O.G times the average ration. 

For a boy over 14 allow 1 time the average ration. 

For a girl over 14 allow 0.8 times the average ration. 

For a child between 10 and 14 allow 0.6 to 0.8 times the average ration. 

For a child between 6 and 10 allow 0.5 to 0.6 times the average ration. 

For a child between 3 and 6 allow 0.4 to 0.5 times the average ration. 

For a child under 3 allow 0.3 times the average ration. 

5. Methods of checking up the food supply : 

A. For practical purpo.ses the food supply may be judged to bo 
adequate in kind and amount if the individual maintains normal 
Avoight, has good health, and is troubled by no digestive disturbances. 

B. If, for any reasons of health or economy, it is desirable to 
check up the amount of food to see that the proper amount of fuel 



202 USE k^B PREPARATION OF FOOD. 

and building material are being furnished, this may be done easily 
and rapidly by grouping the foods for a day as suggested in 2, and 
calculating the food value of each group by the use of certain factors, 
as shown below. (This method will be sufficiently exact in an ordi- 
nary mixed diet, where seA'eral foods from the same group are used. 
In a restricted diet, where the foods used are not numerous enough 
to strike an average for the group each food should be calculated 
separately from any table of composition). 

Group I. — To the weight of the fresh fruit and vegetables add 
five times the weight of the dried fruit and vegetables used. 

(1) The total weight multiplied by 250 equals the number of 
calories. 

(2) The total weight divided by 7 equals the amount of pro- 
tein. 

(3) Practically no fat is supplied by tliis group. 

Group II. — To the weight of the meat, poultry, fish, cheese, and 
eggs, add one-fourth the weight of the milk used. 

(1) The total weight multiplied by 900 equals the number of 
calories.. 

(2) The total weight divided by 7 equals the amount of pro- 
tein. 

(3) The total weight divided by 6 equals the amount of fat. 
Group III. — To the weight of the cereals and legumes add three- 
fourths the weight of the bread and bakery products used. 

(1) The total weight multiplied by 1,600 equals the number 
of calories. 

(2) The total weight divided by 9 equals the amount of pro- 
tein. 

(3) The total weight divided by 50 equals the amount of fat. 
Group IV. — To the weight of the sugar add three-fourths the 

weight of the sirup used. 

(1) The weight multiplied by 1,800 equals the number of 
calories. This group furnishes practically no protein and no 
fat. 
Group V. — To the weight of butter and other fats add one-fourth 
the weight of cream used. 

(1) The total weight multiplied by 8,400 equals the numbor 
of calories. 

(2) The total weight divided by 30 equals the amount of 
protein. 

(3) The total weight multiplied by four-fifths equals the 
amount of fat. 

By adding the amount of calories, protein, and fat furnished 
by each group, the day's total will be obtained. This may be 



USE AliTD PREPARATION OF FOOD. 203 

compared with the average amount needed by the individual 
(calculated from 4 A), and any deficiencies corrected by chang- 
ing the amounts of food selected from the different groups. 

METHOD or DEVELOPING LAB0RA.T0RT WORK. 

Have the daily ration given in 3, weighed out, select combinations 
of foods from each group such as would be used in the average fam- 
il3\ Call attention to each group separately and discus^ the impor- 
tance of being able to estimate, in the daily preparation of food, the 
amount desirable from each group. Have each woman calculate from 
the average ration the total amount of food needed for her family for 
one day, using the table given in 4 ; then have her check up the total 
number of calories furnished by this amount, using the method given 
in 5. For home work ask each woman to weigh or approximate the 
amount of food actually used by the family in one day and compare 
this amount with the class estimate. Note if the amount of food used 
from each group falls within the safe limits of variation. 



Lesson 2. Supplying the Body With Fuel. 



AIM. 

To discuss the amounts of fuel needed by the body under varying 
conditions, and to show what foods are the best sources of fuel. 

points to be brought out. 

1. Need of the body for fuel foods : 

A. Foods which are burned in the body to furnish heat or energy 
are called fuel foods. The heat or energy thus furnished is used — • 

(1) To carry on the "unconscious" work of the body, such 
as circulation, respiration, digestion, etc. This is called the 
basic energy requirement. 

(2) To carry on the " conscious " work of the body, such as is 
required for various occupations, such as standing, walking, 
housework, etc. 

(3) To keep the body warm. 

2. Amount of fuel food needed. — The amount of fuel food needed 
varies — 

A. Principally with the size and activity of the person. 

B. Decidedly with the age. Children use up more fuel in propor- 
tion to their weight and physical activity than adults do. Older 



204 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 



people use np less, due to a general slowing down of the body 

processes. 

C. Little, if any, additional fuel is needed for mental activity. 

3. Method of estimating the amount of fuel needed: 

A. The fuel value of foods is measured by the calories. (See 

Unit XII, Lesson 3.) The number of calories needed per day for 

an}' individual may be calculated from the following table: 

Tabic for calculating energy requirements. 



Kind of activitv. 



Sleeping 

Sitting quietly 

Standing 

Light exercise. 



Calories per 

pound of 

body 

weight 

per hour. 



Kind of actnity. 



Moderate exercise 
Active exercise. . . 
Severe exercise... 



Calories per 

pound of 

body 

weight 

per hour. 



IJ to2 
3 or more. 



4. Foods which furnish fuel : 

A, The principal sources of energy are the foods which supply 
carbohydrate (or starches and sugar) and those supplying fat. 

(1) Starch is used in the average diet as the principal source of 
energy. Comparatively large amounts can easily be used by the 
body because of the bland flavor and because of the ease and 
completeness of digestion. The largest amount of starch is sup- 
plied by cereals, including flours, meals, breakfast foods, and 
breads of various kinds. Dry cereals average about 1,G00 calories 
to the pound. A considerable amount of starch is also furnished 
by the legumes and by potatoes and other starchy vegetables. 

(2) Sugars. — These include various household forms of su- 
gars and sirups as well as the sugar found in milk, fresh and 
dried fruit, or other foods. Sugar is used in the diet both to 
supply energy and to furnish flavor. It digests more rapidly 
than other foods; therefore, it is a quick source of heat in the 
bodj^, but on acount of the high flavor and a tendency to cause 
irritation, it should not be eaten in large quantities. Sugar can 
more easilj^ be omitted from the diet than any other class of foods 
since the energy furnished by it can be supplied just as well by 
the starchy foods. 

(3) Fats. — These are the most concentrated forms of energy, 
a given amount furnishing two and one-quarter times as much 
fuel as an equal weight of sugar or starch. They are used in the 
diet to furnish fuel and also to furnish flavor. Fats digest more 
slowly than either starches or sugars, hence are valuable to give 
food a "staying" quality and to furnish a sense of satisfaction 
after eating. When fats are scarce, the}' may be reduced to the 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 205 

minimum (14 ounces per day), but they should not be entirely 
omitted. Some kinds of fats contain substances extremely valu- 
able to the body. (See Lesson 5.) Protein foods may be used to 
furnish some fuel, but their extensive use for this purpose is 
uneconomical. 
5. Eifect upon the body of too much fuel food; too little fuel food: 
A. When fuel foods are taken into the body, they are digested, 
absorbed, and burned, furnishing heat and leaving a harmless resi- 
due. When more fuel is taken in than the activity of the body de- 
mands, it is stored chiefly as body fat and kept in reserve. If at any 
time too little fuel food is eaten, the body draws upon this reserve of 
fat and converts it into energ3\ For this reason people suffering 
from overweight or underweight may frequently remedy the condi- 
tion by decreasing or increasing the amount of starch, sugar, and fat 
in the food. 

METHOD OF DEVELOPING LABORATORT WORK. 

Have the women select from the foods on display in Lesson 1 
the groups which are used principally to furnish energy. The teacher, 
should supply the fuel value per pound of representative foods in 
these groujDS, so that the women may be able to compare them as 
sources of energy. Ask each woman to calculate from the table given 
in this lesson her own daily fuel requirement according to her activity 
and to estimate the amount of the different fuel foods necessary to 
meet her requirement. Compare the number of calories obtained by 
this method of calculation with the number calculated from the aver- 
age ration in Lesson 1. Discuss the possible variations in the day's 
food which may be obtained by increasing the amount used of some 
fuel foods and decreasing the amount used of others. 



' Lesson 3. The Protein Requirement of the Body. 

AIM. 

To discuss the amount and kind of protein needed by the body and 
to shoAV from what foods it may be obtained. 

POINTS TO be brought OUT. 

1. Function of protein in the body: 

A. Protein is an essential part of the food because it is the only 
source from which the body can obtain nitrogen in the proper form, 
an element necessary for the growth of the body and for replacing 
the body tissues which are constantly wearing out. 



206 USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 

2. Amount of protein needed : 

A. The amount of protein needed varies-— 

(1) Principally with the age and size, since these measure 
the growth. For an adult, the amount of protein needed daily 
is estimated as three or three and one-half ounces for a man of 
average weight. Growing children need more protein in pro- 
portion to their size because they must build much new tissue 
as well as keep the body in repair. With the aged, where the 
functions of the body are slowing down, the amount of protein 
should be reduced. 

(2) Increasing the activity or exercise does not increase the 
amount of protein required. A man doing active work does 
not require any more meat than a man doing sedentary work, 
provided both have the same weight. 

3. Kinds of protein: 

A. "When protein is digested in the body it is broken up into nitrog- 
enous substances called amino acids, which are used to build up 
the protein of the body. The amino acids vary in different protein 
foods, hence the foods may be grouped as follows : 

( 1 ) Foods containing " complete " proteins or those supply- 
ing all the amino acids necessary to build body protein. These 
foods are milk, eggs, meat, poultry, fish, cheese, and some 
legumes, at least soy beans and peanuts. 

(2) Foods containing "incomplete" proteins, or those lack- 
ing one or more of the amino acids necessary to build body 
tissues. These are dried beans, peas, lentils, cowpeas, and cereals. 
It is believed that these may be freely used as sources of protein 
if some of the foods containing complete proteins are included 
in the diet. A safe rule is to select one-half the protein from 
each group. 

4. Amount of protein per pound in typical foods (Farmers' Bulle- 
tin 824, How to Select Foods) : 



Meats : Ounces. 

Beef and veal 2 to 3 

Mutton 2 to 2i 

Pork 2 

Poultry and game 2 to 2i 

Eggs 2 

Milk (per quart) 1 

Cheese 4 

Cottage cheese 3 

5. Effect on the body of an excess of protein : 

A. When more protein is eaten than is needed for growth and 
repair, the nitrogen is eliminated by the body and the remainder 
burned for fuel or if not needed for this purpose, stored as fat. This 
is a waste of nitrogen. It is also a waste of money, because protein 



Ounces. 
Beans, cowpeas, and peanuts. 3i 

Peas 4 

Cereals : 

Wheat flour 2 

Corn meal li 

Oatmeal 2§ 

Bread 1^ 



USE AND PKEPAEATION OF FOOD. 207 

foods are our most expensive foodstuffs and it is uneconomical to use 
more than is needed when cheaper fuel foods would serve as well. 

B. Proteins when used in the body are not utilized completely but 
leave a residue to be eliminated by the kidneys. A diet containing an 
excess of protem increases the work of the kidneys, and while this 
is not necessarily harmful it may in time cause trouble if for any 
reason the eliminating functions are impaired. 

C. A large amount of protein, especially that of meat, is undesir- 
able because it may increase intestinal putrefaction, causing slug- 
gishness, headache, or more serious disorders. This is more liable to 
occur with people leading a sedentary life than those doing hard, 
physical work. 

D. In the process of the digestion of such protein foods as meat, 
eggs, cereals, and legumes, there are formed certain acids which are 
neutralized by the alkaline reserve of the body. In order to keep 
the body safely alkaline, milk, fruits, and vegetables, which supply 
alkaline material, should be included in the diet. 

METHOD OF DEVELOPING LABORATORY WORK. 

The foods listed in 4 should be on display with the protein content 
of each noted. Ask the women to suggest good combinations of food 
supplying protein and to calculate the amount of each necessary to 
supply the average protein requirement for one day. Discuss the 
groups (see Lesson 1) which supply the principal amount of protein 
in the diet. The teacher should suggest typical menus and ask the 
class to criticize them as to amount and kind of protein represented. 



Lesson 4. Mineral Matter Necessaey for Growth. 

AIM. 

To show what minerals are most important for body growth, their 
especial function in the body, and the foods from which they may be. 
supplied. 

POINTS to be brought OUT. 

1. INIinerals are most important for body growth and repair. The 
principal minerals to be considered in choosing food are calcium, 
phosphorus, and iron. Small amounts of others are necessary, but 
they are certain to be included in sufficient quantities if foods fur- 
nishing the three principal mineral constituents are supplied. 
A. Calcium or lime: 

(1) Calcium is present in the body in a larger amount than 
any other mineral. It is the principal constituent of the bones 
and teeth. 



208 USE AND PREPAEATION OF FOOD. 

(2) A lack of calcium will cause weak bones and bad teetli. 
The results of a lack of calcium are especially noticeable in grow- 
ing children. 

(3) The average requirement of calcium per person is 1 gram 
(about ^V of an ounce) a day. The calcium requirement of 
women is increased by maternity since the mother must meet 
her own requirements and furnish enough for the growth of the 
bones of the child, both before birth and for some months after. 

(4) Foods which furnish calcium: 

(a) Milk is the best source of calcium, especially for 
growing children. Two and one-half cups of milk will 
furnish enough calcium for an entire day. Cheese also 
contains a large amount of calcium. 

(h) Egg yolks furnish a fairly large amount. 

(c) Fruits and vegetables, especially green-leaf vege- 
tables, such as spinach, lettuce, and cabbage, furnish calcium. 

(d) Some calcium is obtained from cereals when the 
whole grain is used. 

B. Phosphorus: 

(1) Phosphorus is combined with calcium to form the bones 
of the body and is also an essential constituent of every living 
cell. 

(2) A lack of phosphoi'us may cause weak or spongy bones 
or a general retardation of growth. 

(3) The average requirement of phosphorus per person is 
about 1.4 grams, or 2V of ^n ounce per day. 

(4) Foods which supply phosphorus: 

(a) ISIilk supplies phosphorus in a small amount, but in a 
particularly good form. 

(h) Eggs are high in j^hosphorus, the 3'olk containing the 
highest amount. 

(c) Whole cereals supply a considerable amount, but very 
little is found in " refined " cereals, such as polished rice or 
white flour. 

{(I) Green-leaf and stalk vegetables furnish some phos- 
phorus. 

(e) Dried legumes are rich in phosphorus. 

C. Iron: 

(1) Iron is present in the body in a small amount, but is 
highly important, so much so that babies are born with a store 
of iron to last for several months. In the adult there is no 
reserve store, as there is of calcium and phosphorus; hence an 
adequate daily supply is important. This point should be 
noted in connection with the diet of the expectant mother. 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 209 

(2) The function of iron is principally as a constituent of 
the red corpuscles of the blooc], which carry oxygen. 

(3) A lack of iron causes a lack of red corpuscles in the 
blood, and ultimately results in anemia. 

(4) The average requirement for a man is 15 milligrams a 
day. Women and children require a slightly larger amourit. 
It is believed that iron is supplied from foods in a much more 
satisfactory form than inorganic iron taken as a tonic. 

(5) Foods supplying iron: 

(a) Green vegetables, such as spinach and lettuce, are one 
of the best sources of iron. Care must be taken that much 
of the soluble mineral is not lost by discarding the water in 
which vegetables are cooked. (See Unit II, Lesson 4.) 

(b) Dried fruits, such as raisins, dates, and figs, are rich 
in iron. 

(c) Cereals furnish a small amount of iron when the 
whole grain is used. 

{(I) Eggs are a valuable source of iron, nearly all of 
which is found in the 3'olk. 

(e) Meat furnishes some iron, which comes mainly from 
the haemoglobin. 
2. Practical method of checking up on the mineral requirement 
in the diet. — Since the amount of mineral matter necessary for the 
day's food is so small, it is not usually practical for the house- 
keeper to calculate the amount from the composition of the various 
foods, A practical method of making sure that the diet is safe, 
so far as a supply of mineral is concerned, is as follows: 

A. Calcium. — The amount will be sufficient if a liberal amount 
of milk is included in the diet. 

B. Iron. — The amount is sufficient if the foods in Group I (see 
Unit X, Lesson 1) do not fall below the minimum, if leaf vege- 
tables like spinach are often used, and if part of the cereals are 
from whole grain. If it is desirable to increase the amount of iron 
in the diet, increase the amount of fruits and vegetables, add egg 
(3'olk), and use dried fruits in place of refined sugar. 

C. Phosphorus. — If plenty of milk and whole cereals are used 
the phosphorus requirements will be adequately met. 

METHOD OF DEVELOPIXG LABORATORY WORK. 

The teacher should give tlie class typical menus low in mineral mat- 
ter, ask for specific criticisms, and have the menus changed to in- 
clude the foods which will furnish the necessary mineral matter. By 
the use of tables giving the mineral content of various foods, the 
exact amount may be calculated, but this is unnecessary. Suggest, 
128209°— 19 14 



210 USE AND PREPAEATION OF FOOD. 

rather, that the practical method of checking up, given above, be 
used, and that the women shoukl see that they inckide plenty of the 
foods mentioned as supplying mineral matter, so that they will al- 
low an ample margin. Explain that there is no danger of their sup- 
plying too nuich mineral. Urge the importance of a mixed diet to 
assure quantity and variety of mineral matter. Ask for special diets 
to be planned for a day to meet the mineral requirements of (1) a 
growing child, (2) an anemic woman. 



Lesson 5. Further Essentials of the Adequate Dietary. 

AIM. 

To show further the need of wise selection of foodstuffs if the diet 
is to furnish all of the essentials for normal growth and the main- 
tenance of health. 

points to be brought out. 

1. Even with an adequate supply of fuel foods and building ma- 
terials the body is not properly fed unless certain foods are included 
which serve in various ways to regulate the body processes and keep 
it functioning properly. The following foods must be considered in 
relation to the diet: 

A. Foods furnishing dietary essentials, " fat soluble A" and " water 
soluble B " — 

( 1 ) These are two substances concerning which little is known 
except that they are of equal importance with other nutrients, 
' and that when they are lacking the body does not grow normally 
and health can not be maintained properly. 

(a) The fat soluble substance may be obtained from milk, but- 
ter, cream, and egg yolk. Considerable amounts are also fur- 
nished by green leaf or stem vegetables. This substance is one 
thing that makes whole milk or butter so indispensable for chil- 
dren. 

(6) The water soluble substance is generally distributed 
through foods. Sufficient quantities may be obtained from milk, 
eggs, whole cereals, legumes, and other vegetables. It will be 
lacking in a diet which contains large proportions of highly re- 
jBned products, such as white sugar, very white flour, vegetable 
oils, and lard. 

B. Foods furnishing necessary minerals and acids — 

(1) Small amounts of various minerals are necessary to keep 
body fluids at the proper concentration and to carry on 'processes 



USE AND PKEP^VEATION OF FOOD. 211 

wliich are essential. These are best supplied from fruits, vege- 
tables, and milk. 

(2) Fruits and vegetables also furnish necessary organic acids 
Avhich are changed during metabolism into alkaline material 
which helps to maintain the alkaline reserve needed in the body- 
to neutralize acids formed in the digestion of meats, eggs, 
cereals, legumes, and nuts. 

C. Laxative foods — 

It is necessary to have in the diet foods that give bulk and 
stimulate the activity of the muscles of the intestines so that the 
waste of the body is carried off. If the intestines become clogged, 
poisonous compounds are formed which may cause serious re- 
sults. Laxative foods are : 

(1) Fruits and vegetables. — The large amount of cellulose 
present furnishes an indigestible bulk. They also contain cer- 
tain mild organic acids and their salts, which stimulate intestinal 
activity. 

(2) Whole cereals. — These are valuable for the bulk furnished 
by the bran or cellulose and also for minute quantities of certain 
oils and mineral matters which may have a laxative effect. 

D. Water— 

(1) AVater is a most important part of the diet. It makes 
up a large part of the body tissue and body fluids, acts as carrier 
of the food and of the waste material, and helps to maintain an 
even body temperature. Aside from the amount of water taken 
in our food, it is desirable that a large amount be drunk. Two 
quarts daily is not too much. It may be drunk between meals 
or at meals, if care is taken that the food is properly masti- 
cated and not "washed down" in large pieces. 

METHOD or DEVELOPING LABORATORY WORK. 

Menus for a day may be suggested by the teacher or they may be 
brought in by various members of the class for criticism as to whether 
they meet all the needs of a good dietary. Each menu should be cor- 
rected in class. The women should then go back to the original 
grouping of the foods in Lesson 1, and make a list summarizing the 
substances furnished by each group of foods. The importance of 
Group I, which is the group most frequently overlooked, will be much 
more clearly understood by this method. 

An exhibit of foods always adds interest and the women may 
group them according to the classification brought out in the lesson. 

For home work, ask each member of the class to check up on the 
food served to her family for a day, and the amount of water which 
each member of the family drinks. Is the dietary planned so as 
to include all of the essentials of an adequate diet? 



212 use and preparation" of food. 

Lesson 6. The Planning of Meals in Eelation to the Food 

Requirement. 

AIM. 

To give practical suggestions that will assist the housekeeper in 
dividing into meals the food requirement for a day, taking into con- 
sideration the amount and kind of food to be included in each meal, 
and the arrangement of the meals. 

POINTS TO BE BROUGHT OUT. 

1. The general points which the housekeeper must take into con- 
sideration, in dividing the food for a day into meals, are : 

A. Food requirements of different members of the family, for 
example where there are children or old people in the family, this 
will affect the kind of foods served and the arrangement of the meals. 

B. The occupation of different members of the family. — This will 
affect the amount of food served and the placing of the heavy meal 
at a different time of day. If a lunch is carried by some member of 
the family, or if one or more meals are eaten away from home, this 
may influence the time and content of the remaining meals. 

C. Regularity in meal times and a regularity in the kind and 
amount of food served. — 'Eating regular amounts at regular times 
helps to promote good digestion. 

D. Simplicity in meals. — An elaboration in foods and courses 
served is unnecessary. It must be remembered that the conventional 
method of planning meals is largely a habit, and, like many other 
habits, served as a time saver because, by following certain rules, 
the housewife is reasonably sure without calculations that she is sup- 
plying the riglit foods to her family. There is danger, however, that 
many housekeepers will put too much stress on the form of a meal 
and fail to realize that all necessary food materials may frequently 
be supplied in very simple meals, rightly varied, and that less time 
is needed for their preparation. 

2. Amount of food for each meal. — For an a\'erage family the 
total number of calories required for the day may be divided into 
meals as follows: 

Breakfast, one-fourth the total amount. 
Lunch or supper, one-third the total amount. 
Dinner, five-twelfths the total amount. 
If a lighter lunch is preferred, the amount suggested for breakfast 
and lunch may be exchanged. 

3. Arrangement of meals. — This depends upon the occupations 
and ages of the members of the family, the habits and convenience 
of the home maker, and similar factors. 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 213 

A. Breakfast. — This meal sliould be planned with reference to the 
fuel requirements, the length of time -which will elapse before the 
next meal, and the character of the next meal. Time should be 
allowed for preparing and eating a suitable breakfast. It is seldom 
wise for a person to habitually omit the morning meal. 

B. Lunch or supper. — The light meal may be served in the middle 
of the day where there are children in school or adults in business 
or where the family leads a sedentary life. 

C. Dinner. — For adults doing heavy physical labor, the demand 
for fuel necessitates serving the heavy meal in the middle of the 
day. For those leading sedentary lives, it can be served in the 
evening at a time when body and mind are relaxed and the digestion 
is more easily carried on. For children, dinner should be served at 
noon; or, if served in the evening, a sufficient length of time should 
intervene between the meal and going to bed to give time for 
digestion before retiring. 

4. General suggestions for the selection of food for a meal: 

A. It is not necessary to have some food from every group used 
in every meal, provided each group is well represented somewhere 
in the day's food. This makes it possible to serve fewer foods at 
some meals and make up the lack at others. 

B. The comparative amount of carbohydrate and fat served in a 
meal has an eifect upon the satisfying qualities of the meal. Car- 
bohydrate foods digest quickly and give a sense of satisfaction, but 
if a meal is principallj'^ carbohydrate the sense of hunger soon 
returns. Fat is more slowh^ digested and hence gives the meal 
"staying" qualities. 

C. Foods which stimulate the appetite and promote digestion 
should be placed at the beginning of the meal, and are especially de- 
sirable if the remainder of the meal is heavy. Such foods are fruits 
and fruit juices, light soups, or foods of special flavor. 

D. Heavy foods or those less readily digested should be served 
with foods easily digested. Only one of these dishes, if any, should 
be served in a meal, and they should not be served frequently lest 
an undue strain be put upon the digestion. 

E. Concentrated foods should be served in small quantities and 
preferably toward the end of the meal, when the appetite is blunted 
and there is less danger of overeating. Rich cake, preserves, and 
candy are examples of such foods. 

F. The question of flavor is highly important. A contrast in 
flavor is desirable. All bland foods or all highly-seasoned foods 
are not relished in one meal. The same flavor or food should not be 
repeated too often. Highly-seasoned pickles, relishes, or sauces 



214 USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 

will be used onl}^ to a limited extent, if each food is cooked carefully 
to develop its individual flavor. 

G. Color. — Contrast in the color of the foods served at a meal is 
worth attention. Green vegetables, or those of other colors, fruits, 
yolk of egg, or yellow salad dressing, browned crusts, or simple gar- 
nishings may be used to add attractiveness to food. 

H. Texture. — No meal should haA^e an overproportion of liquid, 
" mushy," or hard foods. With stews serve crisp breads ; with a 
dish such as macaroni, use browned crumbs on top ; with soft breads 
use a crisp salad. 

I. Temperature. — Hot foods should be served hot; cold foods 
served cold, not luke warm. Clinical evidence suggests a danger 
from excessive use of hot food, and so the drinking of very hot bever- 
ages or soups should be discouraged. A contrast in temperature is 
frequently welcome; cold sandwiches are more relished with a hot 
soup or be\^erage than is hot bread. 

5. Specific suggestions for each meal : 

A. Breakfast. — The usual plan includes fruit, fresh, canned, or 
dried, as a first course to promote digestion. The cereal used otti rs 
a good method of varying the carbohydrate food, and the sugar 
usually used with it gives energy which is quickly available. A small 
amount of fat, as butter or cream, or the fat of egg yolk, will give 
the meal staying qualities. More fuel may be added if the members 
of the family need it. (See Unit I, Lesson 6.) 

B. Luncheon or supper. — This may be the simple meal of the day, 
consisting of a " one-dish meal " or of a nutritious soup and dessert, or 
sandwiches, salad, and a hot beverage. This meal offers an excellent 
opportunity to use left oA^ers. (See Unit IV, Lesson 7.) 

C. Lunch basket. — This is a problem in many homes. The general 
points to be taken into consideration are: 

(1) Choice of foods. — Usually these may be sandwiches of 
meats, cheese, eggs, nuts or various combinations, a meat pie or 
serving of baked beans, and a crisp vegetable as celer}'^, or some 
fruit. For a heavier meal cookies or cake may be added, or a 
dessert such as baked apple or a custard or pudding. Foods 
which can not be properly packed are out of place in a lunch 
basket. 

(2) A hot dish, such as soup or cocoa, may be carried from 
home by using a specially made container, or frequently a hot 
dish may be purchased at school or at the place of business. 

(3) Method of packing. — Cleanliness and attractiveness should 
be considered. Neat containers and careful packing will help 
to make even a simple lunch taste better. 



USE AND PKEPAEATION OF FOOD. 215 

D. Dinner — • 

(1) A simple dinner may contain two hot dishes, as a meat 
or meat substitute and a vegetable, bread, butter, and a sweet 
dish. This may be varied by substituting salad for dessert anti 
adding a beverage. 

(2) A more elaborate dinner may contain a soup, a meat, a 
starchy vegetable, a green vegetable, or a salad, bread, bufter, 
and dessert. With a heavy meat course, the dessert should bo 
light, such as a fruit whip, gelatin, or ice; with a lighter first 
coui-se, pudding, cake, or pie may be used. More vegetables may 
be included in the meal, if desired. There is little danger of sup- 
plying too many foods from this group. (See Unit VI, Les- 
son 8.) 

(3) Where a beverage which has food value, such as cocoa or 
chocolate, is included in the meal, the food value thus supplied 
should be taken into consideration. 

E. The " fourth meal "— 

This is a term often applied to refreshments served at social 
gatherings. It may well be used to include the eating of candy, 
ice cream, etc., between meals, or any food eaten irregularl}^ 
Such a meal may become a habit and frequently leads to over- 
eating. If growing children need food between regular meal 
time, a regular amount of simple food should be given at a regu- 
lar hour. Adults should for the sake of health and economy 
discourage eating between meals, and if refreshments are served 
at any social gathering, allowance for this should be made in 
one of the regular meals of the day. 

METHOQ OF DEVELOPING LABORATORY AVORK. 

The estimates made in Lesson 1 for the amount of food needed per 
day for the family should be used in this lesson. The women should 
plan for the division of this amount of food into meals for one day, 
specifying the dishes to be served at each meal and the arrangement 
of the meals. If any lunches are to be carried from home, these should 
be included in the plan. Emphasize the possible variations which 
may be made by selecting different foods from the same groups and 
varying the amount of food used from each group, being careful to 
keep the amount within the safe limits. Each set of menus should be 
criticised by the class as to (1) proper division of calories, (2) choice 
and amount of foods used, (3) general appearance of the meal, and 
('!) ease of preparation and of service. 

Where laboratory facilities are available, a representative break- 
fast, luncheon or supper, and dinner should be prepared. If the class 
is interested, a workman's dinner pail or a business or school lunch 
should be planned and prepared. 



216 USE AND PREPAEATIOI^ OF FOOD. 

Lesson 7. The Cost of Food for a Day. 

AIM. 

To give some suggestions as to how tlie cost of food may be lowered. 

POINTS TO BE BROUGHT OUT. 

1. It is generally more economical to plan meals for at least a 
day, or for several days, at one time. 

A. It saves time in planning and in marketing. 

B. Some foods may be bought in large quantities, thus saving 
money. 

C. Some foods may be prepared ahead, saving time and fuel. 

D. It often suggests economical ways of using leftovers, 

2. The variety of foods served may be frequently cut down. 

3. Economy may be practiced by studying the cheaper and the 
more expensive foods in each gi'oup, and learning how to substitute 
one for the other. 

A. Group I. — Fruits and vegetables: 

(1) Fruits and vegetables are in the main interchangeable 
and may be substituted for each other. When fruits are high, 
they may be omitted and vegetables used, and vice versa. 

(2) When buying fruits and vegetables, their price per pound 
and the amount of waste should be considered in estimating 
their comparative economy. 

(3) At some seasons and in some localities dried fruits and 
vegetables are more economical than the fresh product, and may 

' be made just as palatable if properly prepared. 

(4) The home garden is usually a means of reducing the cost 
of fresh fruits and vegetables in season, and the surplus canned, 
dried, or stored will furnish economical food out of season. It 
is not economy to entirely omit fresh fruits and vegetables from 
the diet as is often done. When it is remembered how important 
these foods are for proper nutrition, the housewife is justified in 
using them even at a comparativelj' high cost. The cost can be 
offset by cutting down on the amount of money spent on less 
essential foods. 

B. Group II. — Meat, poultry, fish, eggs, milk, and cheese : 

(1) When these foods are very expensive, many families can 
cut down on the amount used. Where there are young children, 
adequate amounts of milk must be supplied. 

(2) The amount of meat used by many families can easily be 
reduced without harm by using any other of the complete pro- 
tein foods. Economy in using meat may be practiced by select- 
ing less expensive cuts, preparing them so as to retain food value, 
and extending the flavor by the use of stews, etc. 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 217 

(3) Eggs are iisiialh' expensive, particularly at the colder sea- 
sons of the year. The cost may be redncecl by preserving them 
at home at a §eason Avhen they are plentiful and cheap. (See 
Unit IX. Lesson 9.) 

(4) Skimmed milk and cottage cheese are nsualh' among the 
cheaper forms of animal protein. These should be used more 
abundantly to take the place of more expensive protein foods. 

C. Group III. — Cereals and legumes: 

(1) As a rule the cereals are among our most economical 
foods, but the price varies according to the form in which they 
are bought. The ready-to-serve cereals are most expensive, some 
of them averaging 50 or 60 cents a pound. Cereals in the form 
of bread come next, while flours and meals and ground uncooked 
cereals are the most economical form. Unless fuel and time are 
important considerations, money can generalh' be saved by buy- 
ing uncooked cereals and preparing them at home. 

{'2) Cereals contain some of almost every substance needed b}' 
the body. For this reason, when cost is an important item, a 
very large proportion of the diet may be made up of cereals, 
and the amount of protein, fat, and sweets reduced. If, how- 
ever, cereals are scarce and it is desirable to use a small amount 
their place may be largely taken by foods from other groups. 

(3) The dried legumes are economical sources of food. The 
starchy legumes may be used as sources of fuel or they may be 
used for the sake of their protein as meat savers. Such legumes 
as soy beans and peanuts may be more correctly classed with 
Group II. 

D. Group IV. — Sugars and sirups: 

(1) The amount used ma}' be cut down, or may be omitted 
entirely, without injury to health. As generally used sirups 
are not economical substitutes for sugar, because, on account of 
the lower sweetening power, larger amounts are used than of 
sugar. The fruits from Group I, especially the dried fruits, 
may be dej^ended upon to supply some sugar. 

E. Group v.— Fats: 

(1) The amount used can generally be reduced. When the 
fat in meat, milk, eggs, cheese, or other foods is considered, and 
butt<^r is served at the meal and fats used in cooking, a much 
larger amount is used than is necessar;^. 

(2) If green-leaf vegetables and milk are limited in the diet, 
butter should be used for the sake of the fat-soluble substance. 
If, however, plenty of green vegetables and whole milk or cream 
are used other fats may safely take the place of most of the 
butter. 



218 USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 

(3) The saving of fats frequently wasted in the home and 
their use in cooking will be an economy. (See Unit V, Lesson 2.) 
(■1) Where good cool, dry storage is available the purchase 
of fats in larger sized containers will often save several cents a 
pound, 
4. Special points in preparing low-cost meals: 
A. The low-cost meals usually contain a large proportion of 
cereals with a small amount of more highly flavored meats, sweets, 
and fats. If they are to be attractive special care must be taken in 
the planning and preparation. 

(1) Flavor may be supplied from small amounts of highly 
flavored fruits or vegetables. A variety of pleasing and contrast- 
ing flavors is desirable. 

(2) A variety of textures is desirable both to make the meal 
taste good and to make it satisfy. With a large amount of 
cereals some crisp or hard foods should be included. 

(3) Varying the forms in which the cereals are used and tho 
method of preparation will help to avoid monotony in low-cost 
meals. 

METHOD OF DEVELOPING LABORATORY WORK. 

Using the same family rations which were calculated in Lesson 1 
and used for meal planning in Lesson 6, ask the women to estimate 
the cost of the foods used, at the market price. Then, in the light of 
the suggestions given in this lesson, have each group of foods revised 
to include the maximum amount of the more economical foods. The 
cost of the foods in the revised list should be estimated and compared 
with the cost of foods in the original. Discuss in connection with this 
lesson the use of locally grown products, thus saving cost of trans- 
portation, and methods of reducing cost of fuels (Unit XII, Lesson 
4). Point out the fact that in estimating cost it is better usually to 
plan for several days together, so as to take advantage of purchasing 
in quantities and of left-over foods. For home work, ask the women 
to keep account of the cost of food for a week for their families, en- 
deavoring to reduce the cost without cutting down the nutritive value 
of the meals, and compare the daily average with the estimate made 
in class. 

If interested, the women might group the foods available in their 
community so as to show the way in which they would affect the cost 
of the dietary. 

Lesson 8. Planning the Menu for a Day. 

AIM. 

To plan a menu for a day which will meet all requirements and 
which Avill come within a specified cost. 



USE AND PREPARATION OE FOOD. 219 

METHOD OF DEVELOPING LAliORATOItY WOIUC. 

This lesson should serve as a review of the preceding lessons in this 
unit. The method used for giving the lesson may be any one of the 
three suggested below. The teacher should select the method which 
best fits the needs and ability of the class. 

1. Each woman may be asked to plan, on paper, a day's menu for 
her family, using the estimates for the amount of food worked out 
in Lesson 1. A specified amount of money should be allowed for each 
famil}^ this amount to be determined by the teacher from the work 
done in Lesson 7. 

2. The entire class may be asked to plan a day's menu for a family, 
the number of persons, age, and occupation being specified by the 
teacher, and a specified amount of money being allowed for the da3''s 
food. The class is then divided into four sections, each section being 
asked to prepare one of tlie meals already planned. The fourth sec- 
tion should prepare a lunch for an adult or school child, according to 
the family chosen. 

3. If arrangements can be made by Avhi'ch the mem.bers of the class 
prepare and serve a special meal for some occasion it will be just as 
satisfactory for review work and frequently much more interesting 
to the class. A church dinner, a club lunclieon, or refreshments for 
a banquet, or some similar occasion Avill offer the necessary oppor- 
tunity. The class should make all necessary calculations as to the 
amount and kind of food to be used and the cost. The actual prep- 
aration may be done under the supervision of the teacher. 

REFERENCES. 

United States Department of Agriculture : 

Farmers' Bulletin 142. Principles of Nutrition and Nutritive Value of 

Foods. 
Farmers' Bulletin 808. How to Select Foods : I. Wliat the Body Needs. 
Farmers' Bulletin 817. ^How to Select Foods : II. Cereal Foods. 
Farmers' Bulletin 824. How to Select Foods : III. Foods Ricli in Protein. 
Farmers' Bulletin 712. School Lunclies. 
Farmei's' Bulletin 717. Food for Young Children. 
Office of Experiment Stations Bulletin 185. Iron in Food and Its Functions 

in Nutrition. 
Office of Experiment Stations Bulletin 227. Calcium, Magnesium, and I'hos- 
phorus in Food and Nutrition. 
United States Food Leaflet: Choose Your Food Wisely. (See note at end of 

Lesson 6, Unit II.) 
United States Department of Agriculture (in cooperation with Women's Com- 
mittee, Council of National Defense) : 
Tlie Day's Food in War and Peace. 



UNIT XI. 

Special Modification of the Diet. 
Lesson 1. Infant Feeding. 

AIM. 

To show the principles underlying the proper feeding of infants. 

POINTS TO BE BROUGHT OUT. 

1. Babies should be fed at regular intervals. 

A. Regularity in feeding tends to develop regular physical habits. 

B. The digestive system gets i-egular periods of rest. 

C. A more uniform composition of milk is maintained with the 
naturally fed bab}', and the regular stimulation of the breast tends 
to keep up the flow of milk, 

2. Technic of feeding: 

A. Length of interval. — Four hours is to be preferred, since it 
allows a period of rest for the stomach. It requires three hours 
for cow's milk and two hours for motlier's milk to leave the stomach. 
A three-hour interval may be required in some cases, but it is 
rarely necessary. 

B. Times per da}' vary with the interval. With four-hour feed- 
ing the infant should be fed five times a day until the third month, 
when one night feeding may be omitted. With the three-hour sched- 
ule the night feeding may be omitted sooner. 

3. Natural feeding: 

A. Advantages of mother's milk are — 

(1) It is sterile if the mother is healthy. 

(2) There is no danger of contamination. 

(3) It is usually adapted in quality and quantity to the needs 
of the bab3\ 

(4) It is delivered at the proper temperature. 

(5) Tlic naturally fed baby is less likely to contract in- 
fectious diseases. 

These advantages are so great that the naturally fed baby has a 
much better chance for life than the baby artificially fed. This 
point should be stressed in communities in which the mothers tend 
to feed their babies artificially. 

220 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 221 

B. Keeping up supply of milk. — ^lost mothers, with proper care, 
are able to nuree their babies. The following points are an aid 
in keeping up the supply of milk : 

(1) The diet should be laxative and of high food value, rich 
in protein and mineral salts, especially in lime. The amount 
should be 50 per cent more than she would need if she were 
not nursing the child but otherwise leading the same life. Milk 
is a particularh' valuable food for her. 

(2) She should have sufficient rest and out-of-door exercise. 
Fresh air is very necessary. 

(3) Freedom from worry. — Worry is a very potent factor 
in retarding the secretion. This works in a vicious circle, for 
worry retards the flow, the baby is hungry and cries, and the 
mother worries more. 

(4) Breast should have regular stimulation at sufficiently fre- 
quent intervals. 

C. Amoimt of milk taken at a feeding can bo determined by 
weighing the baby before and after feeding. This should be done 
at several feedings and average taken. The average intake is: 

Age : Amount. 

1 to 3 (laj's ^ oimce. 

1 week * oiiuce. 

1 month 2A to 3i ounces. 

3 months 4 to 5 ounces. 

G months 6 ounces. 

8 months 8 ounces. 

D. Modifying the mother's milk. — In case the mother's milk 
causes indigestion a little water or cereal water may be given by 
bottle before or after each feeding, or some milk can be removed 
from the breast after each feeding, set aside for the cream to rise, 
skiuimed, and the skimmed mother's milk given with the next 
feeding. 

E. Supplementing mother's milk : 

(1) Substituting arti-ficial food for one feeding increases the 
total amount of food and gives longer intervals of freedom to 
the mother. This can be begun to advantage after the third 
or fourth month with most infants. A complete substitution 
of artificial food for more than one feeding is not desirable, 
since the frequent stimulation of the breast is necessary to keep 
up the flow of milk. 

(2) Some artificial food may be given with one or more of 
the nursings. The advantages are: 

(fl) Regular stimulation of the breast, 
{h) Opportunity to modify tliC mother's milk, 
(c) Mixing with mother's milk increases the digestibilit}^ of 
the artificial food. 



222 



USE AND PREPARATIOISr OF FOOD. 



4. Artificial feeding (3 to 9 months). (The diet for the baby 
younger than three months should be planned with the advice of a 
specialist; after three months the advice of the specialist should be 
had in all abnormal cases.) 

A. Volume of food to be given at a feeding should be the capacity 
of the child's stomach plus 1 ounce. The following table gives the 
capacity of the child's stomach at the different ages: 



Ageia 
months. 


Capacity in 
ounces. 


3 

4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 


4i 
,5 
5^ 
6 
6J 

71 



These figures are merely average and are furnished as a guide in 
determining the amount. The reaction of the child is, however, the 
final test. 

The volume to be made up for a day is found by multiplying tha 
amount per feeding by times per day the infant is fed. 

B. Composition: 

(1) Milk to furnish building material and energy, 1| ounces 
of milk to each pound of baby's weight. 

(2) Sugar to supplement the energy of the milk, one-eighth 
ounce to each pound of baby's weight. The forms of sugar most 
desirable are: 

{a) Dextrimaltose. 
(5) Lactose, 
(c) Cane sugar. 

(3) Water or cereal umter added to make required volume. 

C. Mixing: 

(1) Make up at one time the milk for the whole day. In case 
the baby is being fed only partially on artificial food, calculate 
amount for whole day and estimate the amount to be prepared 
on basis of the proportion of the diet to be given in artificial 
form. 

(2) Measure water which must be sterilized. Measure and 
add sugar. Be sure it is dissolved. Measure milk; bring to 
boil unless certified milk is used. Add to water and sugar mix- 
ture and mix well. 

(3) Divide the full amount among the number of bottles to 
be filled. Plug the bottles with cotton, cool quickl}'^, and place 
on ice. At feeding time heat milk to body temperature, remove 
cotton, and adjust sterile nipple. 



USE AND PREPARATIOlSr OF FOOD. 223 

D. Care of bottles and nipples is most important in the artificial 
feeding of baby. Many a baby has been considered unable to digest 
cow's milk properly when the real difficulty lay in the fact that the 
bottles and nipples were contaminated or the milk was not handled 
with siillicient care. 

(1) Bottles should have short necks and round corners. They 
should be thoroughly cleaned with soapy water and a bottle 
brush and then sterilized by boiling. Extra bottles should be 
provided for water which should be given between feedings. 

(2) Nipples should be thoroughly scrubbed, turned, and 
scrubbed again. , They should then be boiled for a moment and 
put away in a sterile jar until needed. Because rubber is more 
difficult to sterilize than glass, the small nipple is better than 
the large one used on the open-mouthed bottle. 

5. Fruit juice (strained orange or prune) may be added to the 
diet of the baby after the second month. This is especially helpful 
in correcting constipation. Start with 1 teaspoonful and increase as 
it seems necessary or desirable. 

6. Rate of gain: 

A. Six to 8 ounces weekly during the first half of the first year, 
gradually decreasing to 2 or 3 ounces a week for the second half. 

B. An artificially fed baby may gain only half as fast and still be 
all right. A slow gain is much better than the indigestion that is 
likely to result from attempts to force greater gain. The slowness 
in early months is made up later. 

C. If the child has a good color, sleeps well, is cheerful, and 
properly active, a slight underweight is not important. Decided 
overweight is never desirable. 

7. Weaning: 

A. Time. — If the milk supply of the mother is normal, weaning 
should come between the ninth and twelfth month. The mother's 
milk is not sufficient as the sole source of the food after the ninth 
month, and some supplementary food, as milk, fruit juice, and cereal, 
must be used after this tmie, and with physician's advice may be 
used earlier. 

B. Method. — If the baby has had any supplemental feeding, the 
weaning is easy, just the gradual increase in the number of artificial 
feedings, with a corresponding decrease in the number of breast 
feedings. When the baby has not been taking food from the bottle, 
she can fre(]uently be. taught to take the milk directly from a cup 
without the use of a bottle. 

8. Food from the ninth to the twelfth month: 
A. Kinds of food — 

(1) Milk, 1 quart, if baby is entirely weaned, otherwise the 
proportion of a quart necessary to supplement the mother's milk. 



224 t'SE AND PREPARATIOISr OF FOOD. 

Rarely, if ever, will circumstances justify the use of more than 
a quart of milk. 

(2) Decrease the sugar and add the carbohydrate in the form 
of strained cereal (3 tablespoons cereal flour used in prepara- 
tion), which may be given with two feedings during the day as 
mush with spoon, or as gruel in milk. 

(3) Fruit juice. — One to 3 tablespoons of orange or prune 
juice should be given between the two morning meals. This fur- 
nishes desirable mineral constituents and substances essential for 
growth, and helps to regulate the bowels. 

(4) Vegetable pulp. — Small amounts • (1 tablespoon) of 
strained vegetable pulp, as spinach or carrot, may be given with 
one meal during the da}'. 

(5) Egg yolk, soft cooked, may be given occasionally, but is 
not essential if the other food is sufficiently varied. 

(6) Bread. — Stale bread or toast should be given at least once 
a day for the child to chew upon. 

B. Number of meals. — Four daily, four hours apart. 
9. Food for the first year: 

A. Kinds. — 

(1) Continue milk, 1 quart daily. Part should be used on 
cereal and the remainder may be taken from bottle or cup. 

(2) Leave out sugar and increase the cereal as it seems 
desirable. 

(3) Fruit juice. — Continue increasing-as seems desirable. Use 
either before first meal or between two morning feedings. 

(4) Use of strained vegetable pulp and juice may be increased. 
Children may be taught the habit of eating vegetables during 
this period. Care must be taken to remove all excess cellulose. 

(5) Egg yolk, soft cooked, may be used occasionally. 

(6) Enough hard bread should be given to exercise the teeth. 

(7) Avoid meat, tea, coffee, sweets, and cake. 

B. Times per day. — Four times a day, distribution depending 
upon habits of mother and baby. Usually about four hours apart— 
breakfast, lunch before nap, lunch after nap, supper — will usually 
be found more convenient and better distributed than having the 
baby eat at the noon meal of the family. 

METHOD OF DEVELOPING LABORATORY AVORK. 

If any of the mothers has a baby artificially fed, have the milk pre- 
pared as a demonstration. If not, have the milk prepared for an 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 225 

average infant. The equipment should be tliat wliich the mothers 
should have for the purpose. The following is suggested: 

1 saucepan. 

1 white enamel pitcher. 

1 measuring jar, graduated in ounces. 

1 large mixing spoon. 

1 funnel. 
In connection with this lesson the class might visit the dairies 
from which local milk supplies are obtained to see if the milk is 
procured and handled in a sanitary manner, if it is pasteurized in 
the bottles, and if the bottles are properly cleaned. If it is not 
possible for the entire class to go, one or two members may be asked 
to go and make a report to the class. 

Have the women report, if possible, upon the number of feedings, 
intervals, and amount at a feeding of babies they know personally. 

The babies might be brought, weighed, and comparison made of 
their weight with average for their age. 



Lesson 2. Feeding Children Under School Age. 

AIM. 

To show the principles underlying the feeding of children from 2 
to 6 years of age. 

POINTS TO BE BROUGHT OUT. 

1. This has been called the most neglected period of childhood, 
and is the period during which malnutrition is most likely to leave 
its mark. There is a rise in the death rate among children over 2, 
and an increase in the amount of malnutrition and diseases resulting 
from it, such as tuberculosis. 

2. General principles involved in feeding : 

A. During this period the child nearly doubles his weight. 

B. He must have an abundance of material for building bones, 
muscles, and other tissues as well as fuel to keep the building proc- 
esses going and to supply energy for his great activity. This means 
the best of protein and fuel foods, minerals, and the " dietary es- 
sentials " for growth. 

C. New foods should be introduced gradually, one at a time, and 
in small amounts at first. 

D. Number of meals. — Four daily during the second year and 
longer with delicate children who can not take sufficient food at a 
time; three after the second year for normal healthy children. This 
gives better appetite and healthier digestive systems. 

128209°— 19 15 



226 USE AND PEEPAEATION OF FOOD. 

E, Regularity of Meals. — It is bad for the child's digestion to eat 
irregularly. If food is necessary between meals, it should be given 
at a regular time. 

3. Kinds of food : 

A. ISIilk should be the chief food, a quart, if possible, being given 
cadi child every day. At least a pint is essential. 

(1) The proteins, minerals, and "dietary essentials" of milk 
are all very important for proper growth. 

(2) Milk has been called a protective food. It makes up for 
other inadequacies there may be in the diet. Milk powder, skim 
milk, or unsweetened condensed milk is far better than no milk 
at all. 

(3) Diets lacking milk are likely to lack lime and so to lead 
to poor teeth and weak bones. 

(4) Milk contains little iron and no indigestible residue to 
give bulk to the feces and prevent constipation. It should there- 
fore be supplemented with vegetables and fruits. 

B. Eggs, soft cooked. 

(1) A little of the yolk is given at first, gradually increasing 
the amount until the limit (one a day) is reached. 

(2) A very few little children arc made ill by Qgg white. In 
such cases it must, of course, be omitted. 

C. Meat. — If given at all in this period, it should be in small 
amount, and in tender, digestible form, such as chicken, fish, lamb, 
tender beef. 

D. Cereals and potatoes. 

(1) Next to milk, cereals form the most important part of 
the diet. They may be given well cooked, as porridge, for break- 
fast and supper, and in puddings as well as in dry bread, toast, 
and zwieback. The coarser cereals should be strained at first. 

(2) Potatoes should be given baked at first. This method of 
preparation retains the mineral matter which is often lost if 
potatoes are pared and cooked in water. 

E. Fruit juice or pulp. — Orange juice or pulp at first; later baked 
apple or pear without skins or seeds ; then scraped raw fruit. 

F. Pulp of vegetables, such as carrots, spinach, and other greens, 
or green peas. The pulp shor.ld be strained at first. It may be 
served in this form or in soup or broth. 

(1) Vegetables and fruit are valuable because of the min- 
erals and essential growth substance contained in them. Iron, 
somewhat lacking in milk and cereals, is present in abundance 
in the vegetables mentioned above, but is to a large extent lost 
if the water in which they are cooked is discarded. It should 
be used in soup or cooked down and served with the vegetables. 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 227 

(2) Vegetables and fruit arc valuable because the}' help to 
prevent constipation. If the food mass moves too slowly through 
the intestine, bacteria are likely to multiply and form poisons 
which lead to sluggishness of mind and body even if more ob- 
vious poisoning does not occur. 
G. Fats. — Children need fat. If they have plenty of wdiole milk, 
the fat may be any good butter substitute, but if they have skimmed 
milk or none at all they need butter. Some children digest olive oil 
better than milk fat. Not much cooked fat should be given, with the 
exception of bacon. 
4. xVmount of food: 

A. Typical day's menu for a child of 2 j^ears: 

(1) First meal. — Milk, warmed, 1 cup. 

(2) Fruit juice or pulp, 3 tablespoons halfway between first 
and second meals. 

(3) Second meal.^ — Cereal, strained, 3 tablespoons; top milk, 
3 tablespoons; milk, warmed, 1 cup; dry toast or zwieback, 
2 slices. 

(4) Third meal. — Yolk of egg; strained pulp of carrot; toast, 

2 slices; milk, warmed, 1 cup. 

(5) Foiu"th meal. — Cereal, strained, 3 tablespoons; top milk, 

3 tablespoons; toast or zwiebaclc, 2. slices; milk, warmed, 1 cup. 

B. Day's menu for a child of 4: j^ears i 

(1) First meal. — Fruit pulp, 4 tablespoons; cereal, 3 to 4 
tal)lespoons ; top milk, 4 tablespoons, for cereal; milk, 1 cup; 
toast,. 3 slices (buttered lightly after it cools). 

(2) Second meal. — Cream vegetable soup; soft egg; stale 
bread, 2 slices;, plain pudding, junket, or custard. 

(3) Third meal. — Milk toast or cereal and milk; baked apple 
or pear; cup of milk. 

METHOD OF DEVELOPING LABORATORY WORK. 

Have each woman bring in list of food eaten per day by some child 
she knows. Compare as to amount with above. Discuss composition 
of the meal. 

Have the women plan and prepare other meals for children. 



Lesson 3. Feeding the School Child, 



AIM. 



To show the kind and amount of food that should be eaten by chil- 
dren from 6 to IG. 



228 USE AND PEEPARATION OF FOOD. 

POINTS TO BE BROUGHT OUT. 

1. It is as important to choose food wisely during this period as 
during earlier childhood. 

A. The results of mistakes are somewheat less serious than in the 
case of younger children because if the child has had proper food 
and care up to this time his digestive system has grown constantly 
stronger. 

B. Mistakes, however, retard growth, lessen the power of resist- 
ance to disease, and impair both the disposition and mental ability. 

C. Inability and dullness in school are often due to an unsuitable 
diet. 

2. The same general rules should hold as with younger children. 

A. Meals should come at regular intervals and no food given be- 
tween meals. If an exception must be made, plain bread and butter 
or unsweetened cracker should be given at a regular time. 

B. New foods should be introduced into the dietary gradually and 
in small amounts for the first few times. 

C. No risks should be taken "just this once" with foods known 
to be difficult of digestion. 

3. The psychology of eating becomes constantly more important 
with most children during this period. A dislike of particular foods 
by the parents is quite sure to be inherited by the children. 

A. If the father never eats cereal, the son will not do so without 
a struggle. 

B. If the mother dislikes vegetables, most of the children will re- 
fuse to eat them. 

C. Food should not be talked about at the table. Conversation at 
meals should always be cheerful and at least occasionally interesting 
to the children. 

D. Such emotions as anger, grief, fear, or even painful embar- 
rassment may interfere seriously wdth digestion. 

E. Attractive service or a little change in flavor will often make aa 
uninteresting dish interesting. 

4. Foods to avoid: 

A. Tea and coffee are too stimulating and have no food value. 

B. Fried foods, pastries, rich cake, and rich gravies should not 
be given to young children. 

C. Nuts should not be given to little children except in the form 
of a paste. 

5. Foods to give: 

A. Proteins, lime salts, phosphates, iron, and other minerals to 
build muscle, bone, and other tissues; essential accessory substances 
to promote growth and health. 



USE A]SrD PREPARATION OF FOOD. 229 

B. Milk contains all of these necessaries. Every child ought to 
have a quart a day. When this is not possible, come as near to this 
amount as possible and in no case give less than a third of a quart a 
day. Milk makes up for many dietary deficiencies. With plenty of 
it there is far less need to worry about the rest of the diet. If the 
child tires of it, give it in other forms such as cream soups, custards, 
cocoa, etc. 

C. Eggs or meat, once or twice daily. 

D. Cereals in porridge and puddings. Bread should be used 
plentifully. 

E. Potatoes are relatively cheap fuel food and are valuable for 
the minerals they contain. 

F. Fruits and vegetables, especially leafy vegetables, supply iron, 
somewhat lacking in milk and many cereal foods and needed for 
making good blood, for growth, and for all the activities of the body. 
Iron and other minerals dissolve out into the water in which vege- 
tables are cooked. Do not throw it away. Fruits and vegetables are 
useful preventives of constipation and they contain essential sub- 
stances necessary for growth and for health. 

G. Fats. — If children have plenty of milk, good oleo may be sub- 
stituted for butter, but they must have some fat. An ounce or two 
a day should be sufficient. 

H. Sweets should always be eaten at the end of the meal. They 
should not be given between meals, since they take away the appetite 
for more important foods and so encourage an unbalanced diet. 

6. Amount of food during the adolescent period : 

A. Not only because of the extremely active lives they live, but 
also because of the profound changes going on in their bodies, boys 
and girls from 12 to 16 years old need appreciably more food than 
their parents. Because they need so much, their food should be con- 
centrated, not very much liquid being given with meals. Special care 
should be taken to make the food attractive for children of this age, 
so that they will not learn to depend upon highly flavored foods, 
which furnish no nourishment but which tempt their appetite. 

7. Arrangement of meals: 

A. The younger children should, if possible, have their heartiest 
meal in the middle of the day. This is less important with the older 
ones since their dinner and supper will have to be much alike in order 
to give them enough food. 

B. When luncheon has to be eaten away from home it should, if 
possible, contain at least one warm dish. (See Unit X, Lesson 6.) 
If the luncheon is carried from home the selection, preparation, and 
packing of the food should receive special attention. Makeshift or 
poorly selected school lunches do not satisfy the child's appetite and 



23Q USE AND PREPARATION OF POOD. 

may encourage liim in the eating of unsuitable food, such as pickles, 
cheap candy, fried cakes, etc. 

METHOD OF DEVELOPING LABORATORY WOKK. 

The class may be divided into three sections, one section asked to 
plan a day's food suitable for a child between G and 9 years, another 
section to plan a day's food suitable for a child between 9 and 12, and 
the third section to plan a day's food for a girl between 12 and 10, the 
noon meal in each case (consisting of a lunch) to be carried from 
home and eaten at school. 

The class should be asked to investigate the school-lunch problem in 
the schools of the neighborhood and to report whether a hot lunch 
is served to the children at noon, and if not, if there is a possibility of 
establishing this as a part of the school work. If children from 
families represented in the class are attendants at these schools, the 
women may be encouraged to cooperate with tke school authorities 
in establishing a hot lunth. 



Lesson 4. Feeding the Aged. 

AIM. 

To show which foods should be used and which avoided in okl age. 

POINTS TO BE BROUGHT OUT. 

1. '• Old ago " is a period of lowered vitality which comes to differ- 
ent people at different ages. 

A. It involves: lessened activity not only in the muscles but in all 
tissues. 

B. Both digestion of food and elimmation of waste substances by 
the body tissues are generally somewhat less vigorous. 

2. After 50, it is well as a matter of precaution to take fewer risks 
with food. 

A. Less rich foods — pastry, rich cakes and puddings, tich sauces 
and gravies, fried foods. 

B. More care in regard to special foods that disagree with some 
people: 

C. Irregularity is more serious than with younger people. 

D. Heaviest meal advisable in middle of the day ;. light sui)per. 

E. Meat in moderate amount. 

3. The total amount of food eaten should be decreased : 

A. In people who are overweight, even if no signs of old age are 
evident. 



USE AND PREPARATIOX OF FOOD. 231 

B. Ill people over 60, generally because of lessened activity in tlie 
tissues. About 10 per cent less food is needed than in an equally 
active younger person. The amount needed grows still less with 
advancing years. 

4. Protein foods are needed in relatively small amount. The more 
easily digestible forms of protein should be used. 

A. Meat is more likely to be attacked by putrefactive bacteria in 
the intestine. 

B. Meat juices (boullion, beef extract, beef tea) stmiulate the 
flow of digestive juices, and are, therefore, useful at the beginning of 
a meal or between meals. 

5. Bread u more easily digested when well toasted. Hot and fresh 
breads are likely to ferment and cause indigestion. 

6. Fat is digested best as cream, butter and oleo, olive and other 
salad oils, rather than in cooked form. 

7. Much of the indigestion of old age is due to insufficient masti- 
caton. If the teeth can not be made good or replaced by artificial 
dentition, all food must be scraped, minced, or put through a sieve. 
Bad teeth with the frequent accompaniment of pus formation are 
now held to be responsible for many ills blamed on digestive disturb- 
ances. A good physician or dentist should be consulted in such cases. 

8. Drinking an abundance of water is important to assist elimina- 
tion and so prevent an accumulation of waste products in the body. 

METHOD or DEVELOriNG LABORATORY WORK. 

Menus should be planned which are especially suited to an older 
person, taking into consideration — 
(a) Clioice of food. 
(6) Amount of food, 
(c) Method of preparation. 
A menu should be planned suited to an average family, then 
changed to show the way in which it may be adapted to an older 
person. 

Lesson 5. Feeding in Constipation. 

AIM. 

To sliow the foods most useful in helping to prevent and cure con- 
stipation. 

points to re brought out. 

1. Constipation is not a simple thing to be cured only by dieting. 
It frequently requires the diagnosis of a physician and his aid in its 
treatment. In all chronic cases of constipation a physician's advice 



232 USE AND PREPARATIOlSr OF FOOD. 

slioiilcl be sought. The more common forms of constipation may be 
cured by strict dieting, and all conditions can usually be helped by a 
careful choice of food. 

2. Wide prevalence and dangers of constipation: 

A. Condition may exist even though there is a defecation; food 
should pass through in 24 hours. 

B. Can be detected by taking charcoal tablets or powdered car- 
mine and seeing how many days pass before it shows in the feces. 

C. May cause fatigue, headaches, eruptions of the skin, poisoning 
of the whole system from the absorption of poisons formed by bac- 
teria from the retained food residues. 

3. Helps other than diet : 

A. Keep the whole body in good condition by baths, proper rest, 
fresh air, cheerfulness, freedom from worry. 

B. Exercise, not only for benefit to general health, but for specific 
beneficial action on muscles of abdomen. 

C. Water drinking, at least 2 quarts a da}'^, and especially a glass 
or two immediately on rising in the morning. Lemon or other fruit 
juice may be added to it or a mineral water substituted. Warm 
water may be taken if cold water makes trouble. Water stimulates 
the muscles and softens feces. 

D. Defecation at an absolutely regular hour every day, preferably 
immediately after breakfast. Both the early drink of water and the 
eating of food stimulates the intestinal muscles. Some i^eople feel 
better if there is a second defecation after one of the other meals 
also. 

E. Each of these suggestions should be followed regularly and 
consistently. A disregard of any of these may prevent recovery. 

4. The diet is important in the most common forms of constipation. 

A. Principles involved: 

(1) Foods containing an indigestible residue (fiber) give bulk 
to the feces and stimulate the action of the intestinal muscles. 

(2) Foods containing organic acids and salts have the last- 
named effect. 

(3) Some foods have a laxative effect and some foods have 
a constipating effect upon certain people. In studying the rela- 
tion of diet to constipation, such effects should be noted and the 
foods included in or omitted from the diet, according to their 
action in the specific case. 

(4) Cerain fats are laxative in their effects when taken in 
adequate quantities. 

B. Foods to avoid : 

(1) Foods that are concentrated or have little residue, such 
as milk, cheese, rice, or sago, should not be eaten in large 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 233 

quantities, but should be eaten with a mixed diet containing foods 
in (C) below. 

(2) Foods, such as meat, nuts, or legumes, that are likely to 
be decomposed by bacteria in the intestine, with the formation of 
poisonous products, should not be eaten at night or not at all 
in large amount until the constipated condition is under control. 

C. Foods to eat : 

(1) Fruit juices or fruits, sour milk, buttermilk, fermented 
milk, kumiss. 

(2) Coarse cereals and breads containing bran, coarse oatmeal, 
rye, buckwheat, dried legumes in moderation, figs, currants, and 
gingerbread. 

(3) Leaf and root vegetables, cellulose (fiber) vegetables, 
greens, cabbage, brussels sprouts, salad vegetables, carrots, tur- 
nips, squash, pumpkin, rutabaga, onions. 

(4) Bran or agar, ground up and eaten with cream or mixed 
with cereal ; bran is efficient partly because of its roughness and 
bulk and partly because of salts it contains ; agar chiefly because 
it absorbs water and so gives great bulk. 

D. Effect of the adoption of these suggestions on the whole 
dietary : 

(1) Most of the foods to be avoided are high in food value, 
and most of those advised are low in food value. The resulting 
dietary wdll therefore cause loss of weight unless care is taken. 
Either an actual increase can be made in the amount of these 
foods eaten or a small amount of concentrated food, such as 
butter, oil, or cream sauce, may be added to the regular amount 
of food to increase the calories. 

Example. — If an ordinar}^ generous serving of cabbage is 
substituted for an ordinary generous portion of rice, the actual 
energy the body can obtain may be reduced to one-half or even 
one-fourth. The cabbage may be served with butter or cream 
sauce or more eaten. 

METHOD OF DEVELOPIXG LABORATORY WORK. 

The class should plan a day's food for a person suffering from ordi- 
nary constipation. The teacher should estimate fuel value and criti- 
cise the plans on this score and on that of supph^ing the necessary 
food constituents. 

The class should plan or prepare several days' rations, giving 
enough food for an average adult and suitable for correcting an 
obstinate case of constipation of the common type. 



234 USE AND PEEPARATIOI^ OF FOOD. 

Lesson G. Feeding in Overweight eor Weight Decrease. 

AIM. 

To show how the diet should be regulated when a reduction of body 
weight is desired. 

POINTS TO BE brought OUT. 

1. Eate of reduction : 

A. Too rapid reduction is dangerous. Many people are ill for 
years as a result. 

B. Occasionally people who have habitually eaten large amounts 
of starchy foods and sugar may safely lose weight rapidly for a time 
on change of diet because this loss represents chiefly a loss of the 
water which the tissues retain on a diet of this sort. 

C. In general, a loss of 2 pounds the first week and 1 pound a week 
thereafter is safe. More rapid reduction should not be allowed 
except imder the directions of a physician. 

2. Drug's and patent preparations. — Never use them. Several 
have been identified as extremely dangerous substances. 

3. Factors involved: 

A. Food, exercise, and body weight are interdependent. Much 
change in either food or exercise results in a change in body weight, 
but if both are changed proportionately weight will remain the same. 

B. Practicall}'^ all people who are overweight can reduce their 
weight by proper decrease in their food consumption or taking more 
exercise or both. 

C. A few cases of obesity invohe other factors and need special 
treatment by a physician. 

4. Food and its relation to body weight: 

A. People who are gaining weight are eating more than their 
bodies can use. 

B. This is true even if they are eating less than some thin people. 
After weight has been gained, frequently a comparatively small 
amount of food is sufficient to keep the body in that condition. 

5. Exercise and its relation to body weight: 

A. The amount of food the body can use depends upon the amount 
of exercise taken. Therefore it is of no use to eat less in order to 
reduce the Vv^eight if one at the same time exercises less. 

B. Increased exercise will not only hasten the weight reduction 
but will also tone up the whole system and result in better utilization 
of the food that is eaten. 

6. Hunger and its importance in weight reduction : 

A. Eeduction regimes frequenty fail in the end because the patient 
grows so hungry that when the " cure " is accomplished, a short period 



USE AND PKEPARATION OF FOOD. 235 

of gorging, undoes all that lias been accomplished in weeks or montlis 
of dieting. 

B. Hunger means first of all that the stomach is empty; it does 
not necessarily mean that the body needs food. 

(1) Frequent feeding in small amounts is therefore important 
to remove the feeling of hunger. 

(2) Meals should be attractive in ser\'icc and in flavor without 
stimulating the appetite overmuch. 

(3) Foods of high food value should be reduced m amount. 

(4) Foods of considerable bulk but of low food value should 
be used. 

7. Foods of high food value r 

A. The most concentrated foods we have, in terms of the amount 
of energy or of fat the body can get from them, are fats and oils. 
Therefore eat less fat, less butter and butter substitutes, less fi'ied 
food, less fat meat, gravies, salad dressings made from oil or butter, 
less cream sauce, whole milk, or cream cheeses. 

B. Next to fats, the foods high in value are sugar and starchy 
foods. Therefore eat less sugar, candy, maniialades, jams, preserves, 
potato, rice, bread, and other cereals. 

C. When only a slight reduction is necessaj-y, sometimes one need 
only eat less fat or less sugar or less of both. 

D. Follow the food plan systematically. Find out how much 
of each food of liigh fuel Tahie is eaten at meals and reduce that 
amount. Eat nothing of high food value between meals. 

E. If the rest of the food and the amount of exercise taken 
remains the same, a daily reduction of the fat eaten by 1 ounce or 
of sugar by 2 ounces will result in a loss of from one-fourth to one- 
half pound per week in the body weights 

8. Foods of low food value : 

A. Of high water content— 

(1) Beverages and soups vfithout much sugar, starch, or fat. 

Examples. — Clear soups, bouillon, consomme, black coffee, 
clear tea. 

Use these between meals to satisfy hunger, scr^^ng with them 
a small plain w^afer if necessary. 

B. Of high cellulose (filler) content- 

Use these to give bulk to the meal. Properly prepared and 
served, they will satisfy hunger without allowing the formation 
of fat as w^ould equally satisfying portions of foods of higher 
food value. 

Examples. — Root and leaf vegetables served without fat or 
cream dressing; greens; salads with salt and vinegar or lemon 
juice or with acid and a little oil or much salad and little dress- 



236 USE aind preparation or food. 

ing; cabbage, cauliflower, brussels sprouts, carrots, turnips, 
onions, squash, punij^kin. 

METHOD OF DEVELOPING LABORATORY AVORK. 

Have each member of the chiss write out a typical day's ration for 
herself, indicating (in cupfuls, tablespoons, or teaspoons, or even in 
large and small servings) the amount of each food eaten. Then 
change it to make it a ration on which she would lose weight. 

In the light of this lesson consider what foods recommended for 
constipation would be most useful for a fat person. 



Lesson 7. Feeding in Underweight for Weight Increase. 

AIM. 

To show how the diet should be regulated when a gain in weight is 
desired. 

POINTS TO be brought OUT. 

1. Eate of gain: 

A. A permanent increase in weight is more likely to result from 
steady gain at moderate rate than from very rapid initial gain 
which sometimes leads to loss of appetite or indigestion. 

B. In emaciation resulting from acute illness extremely rapid 
gains may be made. 

2. Factors other than diet: 

A. Fresh air and moderate exercise stimulate both appetite and 
assimilation. Violent exercise is liable to prevent rather than pro- 
mote gain in weight, particularly at the beginning of the special diet. 

B. Rest, both physical and mental, is important. This is one 
of the reasons why a vacation is a good time to take a fattening 
cure. Thin people generally live at high nervous tension, which 
can almost always be lessened by determined effort. 

3. Diet: 

A. An increase in weight must be obtained by supplying regularly 
to the body an amount of food in excess of its daily needs so that 
there will be an excess to be stored in the body as fat. The diet 
must be so planned that an increase of food does not cause digestive 
disturbances. The principles involved in planning this diet are: 
(1) Stimulate the appetite. Food served should be attractive 
in appearance and flavor. A little clear soup at beginning of 



USE AND PEEPARATIOISr OF FOOD. 237 

hmcli or dinner. Little sweet at the end of meal, none between 
meals. 

(2) Eat regularly, whether hungry or not. 

(3) Add concentrated foods to the diet. Cream sauce or but- 
ter may be served on foods of low fuel value such as carrots, 
turnips, onions. Eat moderately of cellulose foods with little 
fuel value. Eaisins, dates, nuts may be added to the dessert. 

(4) Eat between meals food of relatively high fuel value, but 
of bland flavor, so that it will not take away appetite for the 
next meal. For example, a glass of milk or buttermilk, an 
egg in fruit juice, cocoa not too sweet; 1 to 2 tablespoons of 
milk sugar which is not sweet may be added to milk or cocoa 
in extreme cases, b.t it is expensive and not often necessary. 

(5) Take a glass of milk and a cracker or piece of bread and 
butter before going to bed. 

4. Amount of food to be added to regular diet: 

A. Observe and record regular diet which probably maintains 
weight but does not allow gain. 

B. Three glasses of whole milk every day added to such a diet 
will generally allow- a gain of one-half to 1 pound a week. 

C. When fat is plentiful, 2i ounces added to the daily diet will 
have the same result; that is, 5 tablespoonfuls of salad oil in the 
course of the day in salad dressing or after meals, or the same amount 
of butter or oleo, eaten with bread or cooked with other food. 

D. An extra slice of buttered toast (cut thick) or two extra slices 
cut thin, an added potato, large, with butter or gravy and a large 
banana or apple or orange will have the same effect. 

E. These must he added to the regular diet on wdiich weight is 
maintained. 

METHOD or DEVELOPING LABORATORY W'ORK. 

Each member of the class should study her regular diet for sev- 
eral days, keeping a record of just what she eats and how much (in 
rounded or heaping teaspoons or tablespoons) of each dish. By ar- 
ranging this in vertical columns, one for each day, and observing the 
same order in the foods it will be possible to see whether approxi- 
mately the same amount is eaten regularl3^ The foods may be 
grouped, as bread and butter, cereal, milk or cream, sugar, meats, etc. 
These records should be averaged and brought to class, and each 
member asked to indicate w^hat additions would be necessary to 
change this into a diet on whicli she w ould gain weight. 

A regular day's ration reported by one member of the class might 
be prepared in class and the foods necessary for gain in weight 
added. 



238 USE AND PREPARATION OP FOOD. 

Lesson 8. Adapting the Menu to the Needs of the Family Gkoup. 

AIM. 

To show how to plan a menu adapted to the varying needs of a 
family group and requiring the least time and trouble in prej)aration. 

points to be bkought out. 

1. T^^iere the family is made up of individuals whose diet must 
be varied, either on account of age or some special condition, it is 
frequently a problem to the houskeeper to plan meals which will 
meet the needs of all the family without requiring additional labor 
in preparing special foods for each member of the family. The 
problem may frequently be simplified by taking into consideration 
the following points : 

A. A careful study of the food groups and of the points brought 
out in the preceding lessons of this unit makes it evident that there 
are some simple, satisfactory foods that may be used by practically 
every member of the family. Such foods are cereals in some form, 
milk, fruit, and vegetables. A large proportion of the diet can bo 
made up from these foods. In the case of cereals or fruits and vege- 
tables, some care will be necessary in selection, but, generally, those 
suited to the special diets will be satisfactory for the normal mem- 
bers of the family. 

B. By varying the method of preparation slightly the same food 
may be made to suit i)eople of varying needs. 

(1) The food may be prepared simply, in some form, so that 
it may be eaten by all. 

(2) The food may be prepared by some simple method and 
then divided, a part being served in this form and the remainder 
used in the preparation of more highly seasoned dishes or com- 
bined with other foods. 

C. Special diets in some cases are largely a matter of quantity. 
This is true of diets for those suffering from underweight or over- 
weight, or diets for the aged. In such cases an average meal may be 
made to answer all requirements by varying the amount of certain 
foods eaten. 

D. Where there are small children in the family who haxe their 
meals»at the table with the adults, they should be trained to eat only 
the simple food which is served to them and not to demand other 
foods on the table which are more suitable for the adults. 

method of developing laboratory work. 

The class may be asked to plan a day's menu for an average family, 
then show how it could be adapted with the least trouble to the needs 



USE AND PREPArtATIO:^' OF FOOD. 239 

of a family consisting of father, who is overweight; mother, who is 
underweight ; grandmother, one child of school age, and one baby of 
2 years. If laboratory facilities are available, the class may be 
divided into three sections, and each section required to prepare one 
of the meals of the day's menu. 

If the w^omen prefer, each may plan a day's menu for her own 
family, taking into consideration the special needs of different mem- 
bers. One of these menus may be selected for preparation in class. 

REFERENCES. 

United States Department of Agriculture : 

Farmers' Bulletin 717. Food For Young Children. 

Farmers' Bulletin 712. School Lunches. 

Farmers' Bulletin 413. Care of Milk and its Use in the Home. 

Farmers' Bulletin SOS. How to Select Foods : I. What the Body Needs. 

Farmers' Bulletin 817. How to Select Foods: II. Cereal Foods. 

Farmers' Bulletin 824. How to Select Foods: III. Foods Rich in Protein. 

United States Food Leaflet No. 7. Food for Young Children. (See note at 
end of Lesson 6, Unit II.) 
United States Department of Lalwi- — Children's Bureau: 

Care of Children Series, No. 4. Milk the Indispensable Food for Children. 



UNIT XII. 

The Housekeeper and the Food Problem. 

Lesson 1. The Housekeeper and the Food Problem. 

AIM. 

To outline briefly the problems confronting tlie housewife in select- 
ing food for the family. 

POINTS TO be brought OUT. 

1. There is at the present time an abnormal situation in regard to 
the food supply of the world as the result of lessened production dur- 
ing the war, and serious interference with the channels of distribu- 
tion which will be slow in reestablishing themselves. 

A. Production. — The countries which been engaged in war are 
the principal food-producing countries of the world. With the ex- 
ception of the United Kingdom and Belgium, the European coun- 
tries produced very nearly food enough for their own needs in nor- 
mal times. Since war conditions have existed, their production has 
been seriously cut into by: 

(1) Draining of man power for the arm}- and navy. 

(2) Devastation of large areas in battle. 

(3) Inability to secure fertilizer and agricultural implements. 
While we may look to a betterment of this condition as the re- 
sult of the cessation of hostilities, it will be impossible for several 
years to increase the stores of certain lines of food. In view of the 
decreased man power and the choatic condition of both capital and 
labor in Europe, it will be difficult to get back immediately to tlio 
prewar production of food. 

B. Distribution. — The distribution of foods was hampered during 
the war by the imperative need to reduce tonnage available for ship- 
ping food because of a shortage in ships and because over one-third 
of the world's shipping tonnage was demanded for military pur- 
poses. Distant markets, such as Australia, India, and Argentine, 
were for a long time unavailable. They accumulated stores of food 
which are now available. It is impossible to tell what the effect of 
the sudden release of these large stores of food will be on the food 
market. 

2. Foods effected. — The foods which have been most effected by 
war conditions are the concentrated staple foods which were valu- 

240 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 241 

able for shipping, particularly wheat, meat, fats, and sugar, Wit!i 
normal conditions as to production, we can look forward to a more 
immediate adjustment in the vegetable than in the animal foods, 
'i'he vegetable foods are produced in one season. The animal foods 
require a longer time for production and to a great extent repre- 
sent the great food reserves which have been drained as a I'esult of 
tlie war. At the present time there is indication of a world short- 
age of fats. This is being relieved in part by the utilization of cer- 
tain forms of vegetable fats which have not been previously used for 
food purposes. 

3. America's part in meeting the food situation. — America's part 
in the international food program is to increase the ordinary sur- 
plus of concentrated foodstuffs, especially live stock and fats, so 
as to have the largest amount possible to share with the countries 
in need. We can expect great fluctuations in the food market, as 
the stores of food supplies in the distant countries are made avail- 
able by the release of shipping from military purposes, so we must 
stand ready to take advantage of any oversupply of any particu- 
lar food which may be turned back upon this country as the result 
of supplies being made available from other countries. If the house- 
wives stand ready to step in in such emergencies, much can be done 
to prevent sudden slumps in prices which will eventually react to 
the detriment of all. If the buying power of the housewife is kept 
flexible it will help us pass from abnormal to normal conditions. 
During the j^ear 1919 the United States has promised to send a,broad 
20,000,000 tons of food, an increase of more than 8,000,000 tons 
than in 1918 with no larger suplus to draw from. This amount of 
food includes 4,000,000 pounds of dairy products and between 3,000,- 
000 and 4,000,000 pounds of pork products. It is essential that this 
food be sent or many of the people of Europe ma}^ die of starvation. 
The sending of this food is an international duty. 

4. The above food situation brings the housewife face to face with 
certain definite problems in supplying the food for the family. These 
are : 

A. The obligation and the privilege to use food economically in 
order to help in feeding all the world. 

B. The necessity of maintaining the health of her family by cor- 
rect feeding under conditions which may cause increased prices of 
many of the staple foods. Our experience during the war goes to 
show that the American boys were not up to standard physically. 
We are coming to realize, as never before, the importance of proJDcr 
food in maintaining the physical welfare of the whole family. 

C. It is probable that the world condition in regard to food is 
going to mean wide fluctuations in the cost of foods and also with 
the cost of living uniformly high it is necessary for the housewife to 

128209°— 19 16 



242 USE AND PKEPAEATION OF FOOD. 

practice individual economy without running the risk of endangering 
tlie health of the famil3\ IMany new and unaccustomed foods have 
been placed on the market. The housewife should have an intelligent 
knowledge of these. The conservatism of housewives in buying only 
certain kinds of foods helps maintain high prices. Sometimes otliers 
just as good may be had at a lower price. In order to use them she 
must have an intelligent knowledge of the value of foods, which 
will enable her to furnish the famil}^ the food necessary for health 
at the lowest possible cost. 

5. The following outline has been prepared as a means of helping 
the housewife to meet the food situation at the present time. 

A. Simplification of food habits. — Do not eat or serve food be- 
tween meals. Serve very simple meals, three courses at most. One- 
dish meals are practical. 

B. Wise selection of food. — Learn to know the needs of each mem- 
ber of your family. Plan your meals to meet these needs. Let your 
needs and not your whims govern your food habits. Food selection 
is a science. Study it.^ 

C. Wider range of choice. — Make use of new foods. Wider distri- 
bution of choice adds variety to diet and helps keep down prices. 

D. Buying of food. — Learn first what food is needed ; then buy in 
such quantities as may safely be stored or used without loss. Plan 
ahead to save delivery. Study the market and buy the abundant 
seasonable foods. Conserve those which are scarce here and abroad. 
Make a budget and keep accounts. 

E. Careful preparation of food. — Learn to prepare simple foods 
well. This means palatable foods with reasonable variations in 
methods of preparation. 

F. Avoidance of food waste. — Watch your garbage pail. Serve 
only in such quantities as may be eaten. Practice the gospel of the 
clean plate. L^se all left-overs. Waste no food through poor or 
careless cooking or reckless handling. 

G. The saving of surplus foods for future use. — Even a small daily 
surplus of perishable food should be preserved in some simple way. 
Preserve, dry, can, or store any large supplies of surplus foods. In 
her effort to avoid waste the housewife should take into account the 
value of time consumed in saving. She must remember that time 
as well as food has a value. 

METHOD or DEVELOPING LARORATORY WORK. 

This lesson is planned as a discussion, led by the teacher in order to 
bring out the problems of the food supply as they may exist in the 
special community. The housewives should be encouraged to enumer- 



USE AXD PKEPARATION OF FOOD. 243 

ate the special food problems which exist in the coniniuiiity, and they 
may be then summarized by the teacher, who must have a first-hand 
knowledge of the situation in order to bring out the local situation by 
appropriate cjuestions. The material given in this lesson should then 
be presented in summarizing the situation and in explaining the prob- 
lems which have probably arisen locally. Under the food thrift 
portion the women might be asked to add to the points sugg-estcd. 
Since the statement is frequently made that it is impossible to save 
the waste of food in hotels, because the cost of the extra service re- 
quired more than offsets the cost of the food they save, the women 
might be asked to keep account of the amount of time which they ex- 
pend in using left-overs, or other means of saving food wastes. The 
length of time required for this is frequently overestimated and can 
be decreased by using the left-overs in more simple ways. 

REFERENCES. 

The two books listed below, while not free piiblicatious, may be obtained for 
a small amount, and will be found of great service as general reference mate- 
rial, not only for Lesson 1, but in connection with each unit throughout the 
course. 

Pood Guide for War Service at Home. Charles Scribners' Sous. (U. S. Food 
Administration, in cooperation with the U. S. Department of Agriculture and 
the Bureau of Education.) 

Food and the War. Houghton, Mifflin Co. (Collegiate Section, U. S. Food 
Administration in cooperation with the U. S. Department of Agriculture and 
the Bureau of Education.) 



Lesson 2. Simplifying the Standards of Living. 

AIM. 

To suggest ways of promoting simpler standards of living in con- 
nection with the preparation and serving of food. 

POINTS TO BE BROUGHT OUT. 

1. A rational standard of living is one which provides for the rea- 
sonab?'.^ needs of the family and maintains efficiency. Standards are 
too often influenced by competition, a desire for show, or by social 
demands, until they become unnecessarily complex. In many families 
the adoption of a simpler food standard would satisfy the needs of 
the individuals just as well, and by saving time and food, help to 
lower the cost of living. 

2, The labor shortage as the result of the war has affected the 
home in three ways: 

A. Women have been forced to combine with their home duties 
new and unaccustomed tasks. 



244 USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 

B. Labor ordinarily available has been withdrawn from the home. 

C. Industrial demands, higher cost of living, and in some cases the 
absence of the wage earner have taken the home maker into indus- 
try, in many cases forcing her to combine industrial work outside the 
home with home making. 

3. As a result of this condition there has come to women an in- 
creased realization of the value of their time. In order to complete 
all the outside work demanded of her and at the same time give effi- 
cient care to her house it has been necessary to : 

A. Eliminate nonessentials. 

B. Simplify essentials. 

C. Study essential operations so as to carry them out in the most 
efficient way. 

4. Since so large a share of the time the woman spends in house- 
hold duties is used in food preparation, it is especially important that 
the above principles be ajiplied to food preparation. Simpler food 
standards involve not only the adoption of simple meals but also 
the simplification of service and the most efficient arrangement of 
equipment, so as to save time in the preparation, service, and the 
necessary cleaning after the meal. 

A. Simpler meals include: 

(1) The selection of simple foods which supply adequate nu- 
trition at least cost, and the preparation of these foods in 
simjile, palatable ways which conserve their food value. 

(2) The use of fewer foods at a meal. A certain amount of 
variety is important, but it is unnecessary to serve foods 
which duplicate each other. 

(3) Training the members of the family to eat sensibly and 
to like plain foods. Catering to the likes and dislikes of various 
members of the family often means food waste, and requires an 
unnecessary amount of time in the preparation of meals. 

(4) The avoidance of high-priced foods out cf season, unusual 
foods which are costly on account of their rarity or the distance 
over which they must be transported, and foods which on account 
of flavor connnand a high price out of all proportion to their 
nutritive value. 

B. Simplification of ervice includes: 

(1) Fewer courses.-^Many families can make a more frequent 
use of one-dish m^ Is. 

(2) Elimination of unnecessary dishes and silver. — -While it 
is desirable to use sufficient dishes so that the food may be served 
neatly and attractively, frequently both dishes and silver are 
used which could easily be eliminated. Service plates, extra side 
dishes, and special silver for special foods are examples of these. 



USE AND PREPAEATION OF FOOD. 245 

(3) The use of a type of silver and china which does not re- 
quire a great deal of care in handling. 

(4) Simple table linen. — Frequently the substitution of smaller 
for larger napkins or the use of paper napkins will mean a 
saving in time for laundering. Luncheon cloths or doilies may 
be substituted for large cloths. Excessive handwork on table 
linen is another factor which requires much time for its proper 
laundering. 

(5) Simple decorations and garnishings. 

(6) Planning meals that can be served, if necessary, by some 
member of the family, with the least effort, and the fewest num- 
ber of trips away from the table. (Suggest the use of a wheeled 
tray in this connection.) 

C. In simplifying both the preparation and serving of meals the 
efficient arrangement of equipment is important, especially that of 
the kitchen. Some points to be considered are : 

(1) Size of the kitchen. — This is determined principally by the 
number of workers who use it and the kind of fuel used. Too 
large a kitchen wastes time and energy in walking from one 
point to another and in cleaning the unnecessary floor and wall 
space. Too small a kitchen does not give sufficient space for 
equipment or for the worker, and when a coal or wood stove is 
used it is liable to become overheated. 

(2) The kitchen walls and floor should be finished so as to 
facilitate easy cleaning. 

(3) There should be sufficient window space for good light, 
placed so as to obtain cross ventilation. The windows should be 
high enough to allow for table or sink room below. 

(4) xirrangement of doors should be planned to furnish ready 
access to dining room, pantr}^, or storage room, and out of doors. 

(5) Working surfaces should be arranged at such a height 
that stooping on the part of the worker is unnecessary. If tables 
or sink are too low they should be raised by placing wooden 
blocks under the legs. 

(6) The kitchen equipment should be grouped so as to take 
the least amount of walking necessary, either in the preparation 
of food or in the clearing away after meals. Equipment should 
be grouped around three centers — the preparation center, the 
cooking center, and the clearing center. Arrangements should 
be made for the storage of necessary supplies and utensils in 
connection with the center wdiere they are used. 

(7) The supply of kitchen utensils of the proper type, shape, 
size, and material should be adequate for the Avork in hand. 
The housewife needs good tools if she is to do efficient work. 
There are many tested labor-saving devices which she may use, 



246 USE AKD PEEPATvATIOIsr OE FOOD. 

the choice depeiidmg upon tlie amount of money she wishes to 
spend and the kind and amount of work to be done. No tool 
is a labor-saving device if its care requires an excessive amount 
of time or if it is used so infrequently that its storage becomes 
a burden and takes up space better devoted to other things. 

(8) Each piece should be kept in good working order. 

(9) Keep utensils in place when not in use. 

(10) Be economical in the use of both dishes and cooking 
utensils, thus saving dishwashing. 

METHOD OF DEVELOPING LABORATORY WORK. 

Ask the women to plan a simple meal svutable for guests which may 
be served by the hostess with the least trouble and the fewest number 
of absences from the table. 

Ask each woman to make a rough drawing of her kitchen and to 
point out any improvements which could be made in the arrange- 
ment of its equipment which would lessen the labor required for 
preparing a meal and cleaning the dishes. 

It would be of interest if the teacher could have on display some 
good labor-saving devices for the kitchen. (These might be bor- 
rowed from local merchants.) Ask for a discussion of these, and 
suggestions from the women as to which might be grouped as essen- 
tial and which as desirable. Have the women report upon any 
special devices, either bought or made at home, which have proven 
to be time or energy savers. 

Have each woman estimate the length of time required to prepare 
and clean up the different meals. Have them work over menus and 
arrangements for preparation and service of meals to see if this time 
can not be reduced. Suggestions from each other will help in this. 
Some time should be devoted to the discussion of the meal which must 
be prepared in a hurry. 

REFEKENCES. 

United States Department of Agriculture: 

Farmers' Bulletin 607. The Farm Kitchen as a Worlvsliop. 

Farmers' Bulletin 927. Farm Home Conveniences. 

Separate 646, Yearbook, 1914, The Selection of Household Equipment. 

Lesson 3. Selection of Food for Body Needs. 

AIM. 

To give general information as to the different kinds and amounts 
of food needed by the body and to apply this information in the se- 
lection of food for a day. 



USE AND PREPAKATiON OF FOOD. 247 

rOIl^TS TO BE BROUGHT OUT. 

1. A knowledge of foods is the first step in the wise selection of 
food and in meal planning. Such knowledge is necessary in — 

A. Selecting the kinds of food the body needs so that no essential 
food is omitted and no unnecessary duplication is made. 

B. Selecting the amount of food needed so that the body is neither 
undernourished nor overfed. 

C. Substituting other foods for those that are scarce or for those 
that are high priced so that the substituted foods may maintain health 
and efficiency. 

2. Classification of foods. — Foods may be classified in five groups : 

A. Fruits and vegetables. 

B. Protein-rich foods. 

C. Starchy foods. 

D. Sugar and sugar-containing foods. 

E. Fats. 

3. Use of these foods in the body : 

A. These foods are used in the body to furnish : 

(1) Fuel (or energy). 

(2) Building material. 

(3) Body-regulating substances. 

(4) The two " dietary essentials " for normal growth and 
maintenance of health. 

4. Foods which furnish fuel or energy: 

A. Most of the energy should be supplied by starchy foods, such as— 

(1) Cereals, such as breakfast foods, barley, corn meal, rice, or 
hominy. 

(2) Bread of various kinds. 

(3) Dried peas, beans, and lentils. 

(4) Vegetables rich in starch, as potatoes. 

B. Some of the energy should be supplied by foods rich in fat, 
such as: Whole milk, cream, butter, eggs, fat meat, meat fats, and 
oils, or food rich in oil. 

C. The meals are more palatable if some energy is supplied by 
sweet foods. — Sweet fruits (fresh and dried), honey, molasses, sirups, 
sugar, jams, jellies and preserves, candy. 

5. Foods which furnish building materials. — There are four im- 
portant building materials which must be supplied from the food. 

A. Protein: 

(1) Some protein should come from the animal foods. — Milk, 
eggs, cheese, and meat. 

(2) The remainder can be supplied from these foods: Cereals, 
breads, dried peas, beans or lentils, and nuts. 

B. Lime: 



248 USE AISTD PREPAEATI01<5' OF FOOD. 

(1) The most important sources of lime are milk, cheese, and 
eggs. 

(2) Some lime can be supplied by leaves and stems of plants, 
as spinach, celer^^, lettuce, cabbage, onions, and Swiss chard. 

C. Iron: 

(1) Iron may be obtained from green vegetables, eggs, meat, 
and cereals (when the whole grain is used). 

D. Phosphorus : 

(1) Phosphorus is supplied by milk, cereals (when the whole 
grain is used), eggs, dried peas, beans and lentils, and meat. 

6. Foods which serve as body regulators : 

A. Laxative foods, — Fruits and vegetables, cereals containing the 
vrliole grain. 

B. Foods furnishing minerals, acids, or flavors. — Fruits and 
vegetables. 

7. Foods containing two substances essential for growth and 
health, variously designated as " dietary essentials," "vitamines," 
"■ food hormones," " growth substances," and " accessories." These 
substances have been called by McCollum and Kennedy " fat soluble 
A" and " water soluble B " because of their characteristic solubility 
in fats and in water, respectively. 

A. The experiments of McCollum and his associates have shown 
that " fat soluble A" is found in considerable amounts in milk, 
butter, cream, eggs, cod-liver oil, and glandular organs. 

B. Smaller amounts are in leaves and stems of plants, as spinach, 
chard, dandelion greens, cabbage, onion, and celer3\ 

C. The following foods are practically free from " the fat soluble 
A": Bolted flour, degerminatcd corn meal, polished rice, starch, 
sugar, and glucose. 

D. " Water soluble B " is found in practically all ordinary foods 
and in considerable amounts in milk, eggs, meat, cereals (when the 
whole grain is used), peas, beans, and lentils, 

8. Unit of measurement for foods. — The unit of measurement for 
the fuel value of foods is the calorie which represents the amount 
of heat necessary to raise 1 kilogram of water 1° C. A gram of pure 
protein, starch, or sugar furnishes 4 calories; a gram of pure fat 
furnishes 9 calories, or two and one-fourth times as much. 

9. Number of calories needed a day. — The amount of food needed 
varies with the age, size, weight, and muscular activity of the person. 
(See Unit X, Lesson 2.) 

A. For the average man (154 pouiuls) : per^day! 

At a sedentary occupation 2,000-2,800 

Standing of walking 2,700-3,000 

Doing modei'ate muscular work 3,000-3,500 

At severe exercise 4,000-6,000 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 249 

B. For tbe average woman (12S pounds) : 

Calories per day. 

At a sedentary occupation 2,000-2,200 

Standing 2,200-2,500 

Doing moderate muscular worli 2,500-3,000 

10. Division of calories: 

A. Protein should supply about 10 to 15 per cent of the total num- 
ber of calories. 

B. Starches and sugars together may furnish about 60 per cent 
of the total number. Sugar may furnish 10 per cent or less. 

C. Fats should furnish about 30 per cent of the total number of 
calories. 

11. There are no definite measures of the amount of mineral sub- 
stances or the amount of the two " dietary essentials " necessary. 
Since the}" appear in relatively small quantities in most foods, a well- 
mixed diet should be used to make sure of obtaining a sufficient 
quantity for proper nutrition. 

METHOD OF DEVELOPING LABOKATORT WORK. 

Have typical servings of the following foods shown with the num- 
ber of calories contained indicated (similar foods may be substi- 
tuted) : 

{a) Orange, grapefruit, apple, cabbage, lettuce, carrots, tomo- 
toes, corn. 

(Z>) Meat, fish, skim milk, cheese, eggs, peas, beans, nuts, 
(r) Corn bread, yeast bread, rolled oats, grape nuts, corn- 
flakes, rice, grits, potatoes. 

{d) Cane sugar, sorghum, maple sirup, corn sirup, honey, 
figs, dates, raisins. 

{c) Butter, oleomargarine, cream, vegetable oil, cooking fat. 
Have the women select the food for a day from the above, esti- 
mating the amount and keeping in mind that all groups should be 
I'epresented, without a preponderance from any one group, and 
that the members of the family must be considered in selecting the 
foods. Calculate the calories in the daj-'s food selected and sug- 
gest how they should be distributed among the meals of the day. 
Have the women suggest other combinations for criticism. 

REFERENCES. 

V. S. Department of Agriculture: 

Fanners' Bulletin 142. I'rinciples of Nutrition and the Nutritive Value 

of Food. 
Farmers' Bulletin 808. How to Select Foods ; What the Body Needs. 
Farmers' Bulletin 817. How to Select Foods ; Cereal Foods. 
Farmers' Bulletin 824. How to Select Foods ; Foods Rich in Protein. 
U. S. Department of Agriculture (in cooperation with Women's Committee, 
Council of National Defense) : 
The Day's Food in War and Peace. 



550 USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 

Lesson 4. Fuel Saving in Food Pretaration. 



AIM. 

To show the importance of saving fuel and to suggest methods by 
v^'hich fuel may be saved in the home preparation of food. 

POINTS TO BE BROUGHT OUT. 

1. As a nation a more economical use of fuels is desirable be- 
cause — 

A. Increased demand as the result of war activities has used up 
available surplus. 

B, The experience of the winters of 1917-18 shows the necessity of 
having on hand a fuel reserve. While the conditions were then very 
abnormal, such conditions may be brought about by a temporary 
emergency. 

2. As individuals a more economical use of fuels is desirable be- 
cause of — • 

A. Direct money saving, 

B. Indirectly there is a saving since the incre<ased supply of fuel 
tends to decrease the price. 

3. Kinds of fuel available: 

A. Coal is most important because: 

(1) It is most generally available. 

(2) It is easily adapted to both home and industrial uses. 

(3) It is easily transported. 

(-1) It is used not only as fuel in itself, but is used in the 
manufacture of other fuels, as gas and electricity, when that is 
generated by means of the steam dynamo. 

B. Wood. — Not so compact and limited in availability. 

C. Artificial and natural gas. 

D. Electricity. 

E. Kerosene. 

F. Gasoline. 

G. Acetylene. 

Note. — Modifications of equipment are making it possible to use 
these -fuels for almost all industrial and home purposes. The use of 
the form of fuel most available and cheapest in a given community 
should be encouraged. 

4. Care and management of stoves so as to save fuel in food 
preparation : 

A. Coal stoves and ranges — 

(1) Keep the stove clean. A sooty stove wastes one-fourth 
the fuel. The inside of the top of the stove and under the oven 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 251 

slioiild be frequently cleaned. Keep the cliininey cleaned. 
Enipty the ash pan daily. A pan filled with ashes and cinders 
hinders the draft and injures the grates. 

(2) Keep in repair. See that all dampers work properly, and 
that there are no warped or broken sections in the sto\'e to 
admit air. 

(3) Fire properly. Learn how to use the dampers to control 
the amount of heat. 

(4) The lower damper in the ash-pit door is used to furnish 
a moderate amount of air from below and to consume the gases. 
The ash-pit door should not be opened to furnish a draft be- 
cause it admits more air than the fire needs and much of the 
heat goes out the chimney. 

(5) The upper damper just above the fire controls the rate at 
which the fire burns. Close it when starting a fire; open it 
slightly if the fire burns too rapidl3^ 

(6) The oven damper directs the heat around the oven for 
baking. Open it to start the fire, then close it to heat the oven 
and to keep hot air from going up the chimney. 

(7) The check draft damper should be opened when the fire 
is to be be kept over night, or when the store is to be cooled 
quickly. 

(8) The stovepipe damper controls the rate at which the hot 
air goes up the chimney. Open it to start the fire; close it to 
slow down the fire. 

(9) Keep a deep fire, up to the top of the oven but not run- 
ning over on it. A thin fire wastes heat. 

(10) To keep fire through the night, the fire box should be 
filled solid, but not touching the lids. Close lower drafts and 
open check draft. 

(11) Don't use a big fire for a small amount of cooking. 
Learn to gauge the amount of fuel required so that after tlie 
cooking is finished there is no waste heat. 

(12) If wood is locally plentiful, use it to save coal. It may 
be mixed with coal or may be used alone. When burning wood 
alone in a coal stove the grate should be partially covered to 
reduce the draft. 

B. Gas stoves. — 

(1) Burners should be kept clean. When they become clogged 
there is incomplete combustion of the gas and its full heating 
value is not utilized. 

(2) Burners should be so arranged that the tip of the flamo 
touches the bottom of the cooking vessel. Since the short flame 
is more economical of gas this means the distance from the 
burner to bottom of vessel in position should be about O.G inch. 



252 USE AXD PREPARATION OF FOOD. 

(3) If openings in burner are so close that two flames strike 
each other there is poor combustion. This is less likely to hap- 
pen in drilled than in slotted burners. 

(4) Solid stove tops are to be avoided since the}^ conduct off 
the heat. The idea that they are economical is erroneous. 

(5) The better insulated the oven the less gas required, re- 
membering there must be free ventilation in that portion of the 
oven in which the gas is burned. 

C. Kerosene and gasoline — 

(1) Keep stoves clean and burners or wicks in good condition. 

(2) Keej) the flame turned low when a moderate heat will 
serve. 

(3) Alwa^'s have blue flame. A luminous flame indicates in- 
complete combustion of the fuel. 

(4) In general the better grades are more economical than the 
cheaper. 

D. Electrical cooking equipment — 

(1) Special small pieces are convenient but rarely economical. 
The smaller pieces used at the table use less fuel than would be 
recjuired to heat a large kitchen stove, but it is poor fuel econ- 
omy to use them when the range nnist be heated for other pur- 
poses. 

(2) Electric stoves are capable of greater development in fuel 
saving than gas stoves because the heating unit as well as the 
cooking portion maj^ be insulated to prevent loss of heat. An 
electric stove should have a vrell-insulated oven and sunken, 
well-insulated heating units. 

5. Kitchen equipment which vrill save fuel : 

A. Fireless cooker. — One of the best fuel savers. Especially good 
for foods requiring long slow cooking. 

(1) Commercial fireless cooker in A'arious forms and sizes. 

(2) One ma}' be made at home with little expense which will 
do satisfactory work. It should be properly insidated and lined 
with noninflammable material to avoid danger of fire. 

B. Pressure cooker. — Saves fuel because the high temperature ob- 
tained cooks food in a shorter time than bj'^ ordinary methods. 

C. Steamer. — This permits several foods to be cooked at the same 
time over one burner. 

D. Double or triple container which fits over one burner. 

G. Choice of utensils which are good conductors of heat. Some 
materials conduct the heat more rapidh' than others. They should 
be free from soot, since soot is a nonconductor of heat. 

7. Methods of cooking which will save fuel: 



USE AND PREPARATIOX OF FOOD. 253 

A. Group foods so that several requiring long cooking may be 
prepared at the same time ■with the same amount of fuel. Some 
foods may be cooked in quantities and reheated as needed. 

B. HaA'e regular baking days, when several foods may be cooked 
in the oven at the same time, 

C. Serve plain foods cooked simply. Meals requiring elaborate 
methods of preparation are often food and fuel Avasters. 

D. If a heating stove or a furnace is in use, it ma}' be used to cook 
foods requiring long, slow cooking. 

E. The scale which accumulates in the bottom of the tea kettle 
after continued use for heating water is a nonconductor of heat. 
Water heats verv much less quickly in such a kettle. This scale 
should be removed. 

METHOD OF DEVELOPING LABORATORY WORK. 

If possible have in the equipment a commercial tireless cooker, a 
home-made tireless cooker (directions for making may be obtained 
from the U. S. Department of Agriculture Bulletin Xo. 771), a 
steamer, and some tj-pes of cooking utensils which are desirable. Be 
sure each of these is used in the work some time during the course. 
Have the women tell of the ways thej' use them at home and calculate 
the time and fuel so saved. Base the lesson on the fuel in common 
use in the neighborhood. Have the women bring in fuel costs for 
families of definite sizes. Determine the most economical fuel for 
use in the neighborhood, taking into account— 

( 1 ) Cost of equipment. 

(2) Cost of fuel. 

(3) Cost in convenience. 

(4) Cost in time. 

AVhere necessary, teach the women how to estimate the cost of fuel 
by measure of coal and reading meter for gas and electricity. 

Have the women in their work keep account of time required to 
heat same amount of water in vessels of different shapes, as tall ves- 
sel with small base compared with vessel of same capacity with larger 
base. Emphasize importance of broad base exposed to heat and the 
loss of heat from the tall exposed sides. 

Estimate the difference in time required to heat a kettle of water 
before and after the removal of scale. 

Discuss the fire hazards in a kitchen. 

REFERENCES. 

The U. S. Department of Agriculture: 

Farmers' Bulletin 771. Home-made Firelcss Cookers and Their Use. 
Circular 79. Emergency Fuel from the Farm Woodland. 



254 • USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 

Lesson 5. Marketing. 

AIM. 

To teacli the women ways of applying practical economy in the 
purchase of food. 

POINTS TO BE BROUGHT OUT. 

1. The food budget: 

A. Importance. — The food budget is fundamental to economy in 
food buj'ing. The proportion of the income which can be allowed 
for food must be established in order that unwarranted food expendi- 
tures are not made at the expense of other necessaries and yet that 
the family may live as well in regard to food as the purse admits. 

B. Proportion of family income allotted to food. — In general the 
lower the family income the larger will be the proportion of it needed 
for food. The proportion varies with — 

(1) The size of the income. 

(2) The composition of the family. 

(3) The position of the family in the social group. 

C. Methods of apportioning food expenses — 

(1) Fixed income in weekly payments. — In this case, the food 
expenses for a week should be allotted in a definite proportion to 
the weekly wage payment. 

(2) Fixed income in monthly payments. — It will be found 
V more definite to apportion the monthly allotment into weekly 

amounts, since control over expenditures is made easier if kept 
within short-time periods and periods of equal length. 

(3) Fixed income at irregular times. — Care must be taken to 
reserve resources for less productive seasons and particularly 
to figure food allotment per week sufficiently low to insure its 
continuation the year around. A definite proportion of the total 
3'early income should be taken and divided into weekly amounts. 

(4) The week's food allotment may be still further divided 
into daily allotments or else into allotments to cover breakfasts, 
luncheons, and dinners. Generally after allowance has been 
made for the essentials, such as milk, cereals, and breadstufFs, 
for which the amounts can readily be fixed, only the variables are 
left to be adjusted for each meal. 

D. Advantages of a food budget: 

(1) With a weekly or daily allotment, the housekeeper is no 
longer uncertain in her purchasing. She knows at once to what 
range of price she must limit the " variables " for each meal, such 
as green vegetables, meat, or protein-rich foods and desserts. 

(2) She will know when she has managed so carefully that a 
special desire can be gratified without running behind, and she 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 255 

will know when some unusual demands not counted upon have 
to be met by more than usually good management. 

(3) Her judgment in marketing under these circumstances is 
much quicker and more accurate than when she goes to market 
either waiting to be tempted b}'^ something or with the general 
idea of doing the best she can. 

(4) Definite standards remove worry and bring more satisfac- 
tory results in economy. They aid the housekeeper in knowing 
the limit of her spending power before she arrives at that limit. 

2. The keeping of accounts : 

A. Importance. — Keeping accounts or checking up is quite as im- 
portant to food economy as making a budget. Although marketing 
may be done upon the basis of a detailed budget, one trip should suf- 
fice for several days' supplies, and accounts are helpful to keep tho 
various allotments separate. 

B. Methods of keeping practical accounts. — Many people find 
keeping accounts in books too troublesome and have devised substi- 
tutes : 

(1) One method is the use of a food J3urse or a purse contain- 
ing onl}'' the funds for food. 

(2) A second way is a package of envelopes, each containing 
the money for one allotment, be this milk, meat, etc., or dinners, 
luncheons, etc. 

(3) A third way is to substract each day's food expenditures 
from the amount available for the week. The remainder each 
day shows the funds still available. Thus: 

$15. 00=weekly food allowance. 
1. 50=Monday (spent). 



13. 50 
2. 30:z=Tuesday (spent). 



11.20 
(4) Another way is the reverse of this. The addition of the 
daily expenditures cither as a whole or by allotments, the foot- 
ing showing what has been spent to date. Thus ; 
$1. 50 spent Monday. 
2.30 do do 

3. 80 spent by Tuesday. 
1.70 do on Tuesday. 

5. 50 spent by Wednesday. 



256 USE AND PEEPAEATIO]Sr OF FOOD. 

C. Cliarging purcliases to an account. — The advisability of run- 
ning accounts varies enormously with different people, different 
stores, and different incomes. Some advantages are — 

(1) The convenience of not handling change constantly either 
at the stores or at the door, with its many irritations and small 
errors and losses. 

(2) The fact that it is very difficult to keep account of these 
transactions in the interruptions and extreme divergence of 
activities in home life. 

(3) Having an account establishes a fundamental business 
relationship between buyer and seller that tends to greater re- 
sponsibility on both sides. 

Some of the disadvantages are — 

(1) Too often it is planned to conceal an actual financial 
shortage. 

(2) With many people it induces extravagance in buying 
because pajniient is postponed. 

(3) The market that carries accounts charges such prices to 
its clientele as will cover the losses from postponed payments 
and bad debts. One device for meeting this difficulty is to allow 
a discount for prompt payments of accounts. 

D. A variation of the charge account is when the purchaser makes 
a deposit to the dealer at the beginning of the month and purchases 
are charged to that deposit. The milk tickets bought in advance are 
a modified form of this. This obviates the difficulty of enhanced 
j)rices. 

3. Selection of markets: 

A. On the selection of markets depends much of the success in eco- 
nomical buying. The grade of goods and the service a market offers 
vary with the clientele to which it caters. In some markets it is almost 
impossible to buy the wholesale but less expensive varieties of fresh 
maiket products. Buying from a market of this sort keeps many 
people buying beyond their means and using more fancy grades than 
are necessary for their standard of living and for adequate nutrition. 
The pleasure derived from indulgence in such varieties and grades is 
perfectly legitimate but not at the expense of more essential factors. 
Unfortunate also is trading in a market where the selection is too 
small and does not give opportunity for the full variety of products 
within the purchaser's price range. 

B. Eeliability is another matter of importance to be considered 
in the selection of markets. This applies not only to the quality of 
the goods for sale but equally to such matters as the manner of 
weighing and measuring, sanitation and cleanliness, and candor in 
making and keeping promises. 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 257 

C. Neaniess is a further factor in economic buying tliat is im- 
portant in tlie selection of markets. It saves the buyer's time, tends 
to bring more prompt service, helps in the ready correction of occa- 
sional errors, and is important in emergencies. Many buyers in 
seeking monetary advantages fail to take other values, such as time, 
into account. In this connection the cost of trading in too large a 
number of markets for different items is apparent. "Bargain buy- 
ing'' in a distant market must have positive advantages to offset its 
disadvantages. 

4. Prices and economical marketing: 

A. Since fair-price lists have been published the consumer is 
spared much costly effort in the matter of assuring herself on the 
prices she is asked to pay. Departure from these may be due to — 

(1) Differences in the grade of goods purchased from those 
on which a price is quoted. 

(2) Additional services rendered by some markets in making 
sales, the cost of which is added to prices. 

(3) Poor purchasing ability on the part of the dealer in se- 
curing the goods. 

B. The quality or grade of goods purchased is often inferred from 
prices asked, instead of judging the price to be high or low according 
to the quality of the goods. The dangers of inferring grade from 
price needs no further comments. 

C. Attractiveness is a factor in quality from the standpoint of 
the grocer. The price is higher for the attractive product. Often a 
cheaper " quality" has just as much food value. For instance, broken 
rice and marcaroni, prunes of small size, etc., are equal in food value 
to goods in more perfect and attractive forms. 

D. Economical buying also must recognize that the lowest priced 
article is seldom the most economical one to buy. 

5. The market order. — The order is an important factor in eco- 
nomical marketing. The purchaser's list should be definite but not 
so rigid that she can not adjust herself readily to the day's prices, es- 
pecially of perishables. It should be complete before it is offered 
and items should be grouped. Errors are costly as are multiple or- 
ders and deliveries. Their costs are sooner or later added to the 
prices asked and these additions to price do not fall upon the pur- 
chaser alone, but upon the whole clientelie of the market. Ordering 
or planning the orders for several days in advance saves time and 
effort. 

6. Time of marketing. — The time of marketing offers several con- 
siderations that effect econom3\ If the purchaser takes the time to 
go to market in person to have a choice of the market's best she should 
get the full benefit of this time and effort b}' going early. If she 

128209°— 19 17 



258 USE AND PREPAKATION OF FOOD. 

does not need as complete selection or things entirely in their prime 
the closing hours often offer economies in salvage prices. 

7. Factors to have in minds in economical buying are : 

A. Food value (see Unit XII, Lesson 3). — This differs widely in 
foods having the same cost. All of the food constituents essential 
for -proper nutrition must be provided, in the diet, but the buyer 
should knoAv that certain forms of each are higher in price than 
others. Certain meats, fruits, and vegetables are often higher 
priced than their actual food vahie warrants. Remember that "we are 
justified in paying high prices for certain foods on account of cer- 
tain definite contributions in the way of food value or flavor, but 
too much emphasis should not be placed upon flavor alone as is fre- 
quently the case. 

B, Cost of preparation: 

(1) Fuel (see Unit XII, Lesson -1). — Two phases of the use of 
fuel in the preparation of food should be considered in planning 
purcliases of food. 

(a) The amount of fuel used in preparation. — Some foods 
requiring longer cooking may be needed in the diet for 
variety but might well be bought ready to serve unless the 
organization of the household makes the use of fuel for such 
purposes economical. (See S, Eeady to Serve Foods.) 

[h) The ixirticvla)' application of heat for the day's sup- 
ply of food in relation to other household activities. — In the 
case of wood or coal stoves, particularly if laundering, pre- 
serving, bread making, or other tasks requiring a hot stove 
are in progress, foods requiring simple handling but long 
cooking may be planned, thus making the fuel consumed 
serve a double purpose. 

(2) Time. — The amount of time involved in the preparation 
of food and the value of the housekeeper's time must be con- 
sidered. Foods which require long and involved processes in 
preparation should either be omitted from the diet or bought 
ready-to-serve unless the value of the housewife's time is such 
that it may be legitimately spent this way. (See LTnit XII, 
Lesson 2, also 8, Read}^ to Serve Foods.) 

8. Ways of buying food : 
A. Personal marketing — 

(1) Advantages. — The buyer can see the goods, judge their 
quality, get suggestions, and make selections. She may be able 
to take advantage of good prices in fresh fruits or vegetables for 
preservation, etc. 

(2) Disadvantages. — The early morning hours which arc the 
best for marketing are also best for other household duties. 



USE AND PREPAKATION OF FOOD. 259 

Often the market does not deliver goods and the market basket 
has to be carried. The tusk of marketing is a heavy one and 
often uses strength and time which might be better used in 
other ways. 

B. Marketing by telephone can be done satisfactorily if tlie buyer 
uses forthought in assembling her order, trades at a reliable store, 
insists upon good service, and deals with one good clerk who knows 
her standards. 

(1) Advantages. — This method saves time and strength. 

(2) Disadvantages. — The buyer can not see the variety of 
goods, but a good clerk will list the available things and mention 
interesting items in his stock, thus assisting the housewife in 
making selections. 

C. Mail-order buying. — This method is used in parts of the 
country which are isolated from large cities or towns and affords a 
really good w^ay of securing commodities. It should be used only 
with reliable firms and then only when local stores have failed to 
meet the prices offered by the mail-order houses. 

(1) Advantages. — A saving is often realized because prices 
are lower, due to the absence of middlemen and retailers in the 
transaction. 

(2) Disadvantages. — It takes trade away from local dealers. 
It involves transportation and the disadvantage of buying with- 
out first seeing the goods. Adjustments for returned goods are 
sometimes slow and unsatisfactory. 

9. Amounts of food to buy. — This depends upon the following 
factors : 

A. Storage facilities (see Unit IX, Lesson 9). 

(1) Space. 

(2) Cost of ice (for perishables). 

B. Ready money available. 

C. Keeping qualities of the food. — Foods should be bought in as 
large quantities as can be used before deterioration. Buy several 
foods having similar uses in equally large quantities so that variety 
may be obtained in the diet. Having too large a quantity of one 
food on hand tends to monotony. It is better to buy nonperishable 
goods in large quantities. Less perishable fruits can be bought 
advantageously by the crate if proper storage facilities are available. 
Some fruits and vegetables deteriorate very rapidly and should not 
be bought in quantity unless arrangements are made for using them 
immediately, A material saving jnay be affected if two or more 
neighbors pool their bujdng. 

10. Bulk food versus package goods. — This involves the question 
of cleanliness. The buyer should note the facilities provided in the 
store for keeping bulk goods clean and buy only those which are 



260 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 



properly protected. In general, food in bulk — that is, in the simplest 
form — is cheaper than food of the same quality put up in packages. 
When buying in bulk, women should learn to ask for definite amounts 
by pound, quart, peck, dozen, etc. A loss is often incurred by buying 
things by the basket, bottle, pail, or other container. Package goods 
should be marked with the quantity they contain, and the net 
weight of the package should be noticed in relation to the cost. 
The size and shape of the package should be noted. This is par- 
ticularly true of bottles; the smaller the container the higher the 
price in proportion to the amount obtained. The following table 
gives one illustration of this fact: 



Relative costs of fat in containers of varying sizes. 
[Compiled by Margaret Mumford, University of Missouri, March, 1918, from local prices.] 



Fat. 



Size can. 



Cost. 



Cost. 



Saving. 



Lard 

Do.. 
Do.. 
Do.. 

Olive oil 
Do.. 
Do.. 
Do.. 
Do.. 
Do.. 
Do.. 



5-pound 

lO-pound 

20-pound 

50-pound 

i^-pint bottle.. 
|-pint bottle.. 
1-pint bottle.. 
1-quart bottle 
l-quart can... 
2-quartcan... 
4-quartcan... 



$1.53 
3.04 
6.06 

14.90 

.27 
.42 
.72 
1.25 
1.08 
2.10 
4.00 



Per 
pound. 
$0. 306 
.304 
.303 
.298 
Per quart. 
2.16 
1.68 
1.44 
1.25 
1.08 
1.05 
1.00 



Per 

pound. 



$0,002 

.003 

.003 

Per quart. 



.48 

.72 

.91 

1.08 

1.11 

1.16 



(See Unit I, Lesson 2, " Breakfast Cereals.") The relatively higher 
price of package goods may be due to the good will which the trade- 
mark* represents, the cost of advertising the brand, and the labor 
involved in its manufacture and distribution, as well as the sanitary 
advantages. 

11. Buying food in and out of season. — AYith increased transpor- 
tation and refrigerating facilities this question is of less importance 
than formerly. Canned goods are sometimes used when fresh ones 
are actually cheaper. The use of hothouse fiuits is unnecessary and 
extravagant, but some hothouse vegetables, such as lettuce, can be 
used occasionally Avithout undue extravagance. (See Units II, IV, 
and IX.) 

12. Eeacly-to-serve foods. — Because the bu3'er pays for the fuel and 
labor involved in their preparation the price of these foods is high 
in relation to their food value. The value of the time of the house- 
keeper and of the fuel used in their preparation should be taken 
into consideration. The use of baker's bread is an illustration of 
this point. Baked or boiled ham serves as another illustration. Such 
ham might be useful in giving variety to the diet, and under certain 
conditions it is the most economical form in which to purchase it. 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 261 

The community kitchen idea may be deveh:)ped to inchide ready-to- 
serve food. Tlie mai-kets are full of such goods which were unknown 
a generation ago. The housewife should use careful judgment in 
their purchase and use because their convenience often blinds her 
to their cost and value. 

13. Knowledge of weights and measures. — The buyer should be 
acquainted with standard weights and measures and should occa- 
sionally check her purchases b}' weighing or measuring them. Accu- 
racy on the part of the dealer should be demanded. The following 
rules are suggestive: 

(1) The liquid quart is smaller than the dry quart. (Dealers 
often using liquid measures for vegetables and other foods which 
should be measured by dry measure.) 

(2) One bushel of potatoes weighs 60 pounds. One bushel of 
carrots weighs .50 pounds (except in Minnesota, where it weighs 
45 pounds). 

Weights per bushel of various common commodities differ in the 
different States. For these figures and other valuable information, 
consult Circular of the Bureau of Standards, No. 55, Measurements 
for the Household. 

14. Specific suggestions for bu3dng. — These are given in detail in 
Units II, IV, V, and VI. (See also Unit X, Lesson 7.) 

A. Fruits and vegetables. — The consumer should know the sources 
of fruits and vegetables and the seasons at which they are at their 
best since these factors affect their price and quality. She should 
know their keeping properties and reliable tests for quality and 
ripeness, since these govern the amount in which they should be 
bought. 

B. Milke, cheese, and eggs. — The high food value of these products 
in proportion to their cost should influence the housewife in includ- 
ing them as an economical source of food. 

C. Meat, fish, poultry, and game.— The amount of refuse must be 
taken into consideration, 

15. .Conservative buying. — The conservatism of American house- 
wives in the use of food is a determining factor in the high price 
of food. There are many new, unaccustomed foods on the market 
which are cheap because of the lack of demand for them. Foods for 
which there is a great demand are high priced. If v»omen would 
use all the foods available, they would gain a double advantage — 
variety in the diet and lower prices on staple goods. This is true 
of nearly all classes of food. In some parts of the country, sweet 
breads, liver, etc., are given away by the butcher or sold for nearly 
nothing. The intelligent buyer studies and takes advantage of these 
conditions. 



262 USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 

METHOD OF DEVELOPING LABORATORY WORK. 

This lesson may be conducted as a discussion accompanied by a 
demonstration. Have the women plan purchases of food for wash 
day, ironing day, canning time, .planning menus which will save time 
and fuel. Have them plan purchases of food for a family in which 
the woman is a wage earner and away from home for part of the 
day. Compare the cost of a ready-to-serve food with the same food 
prepared at home if the housewife's time used in some other way is 
worth a definite amount per hour. If practicable, have a reliable 
grocer give a short talk on the three ways of buying from his stand- 
point. 

Obtain or have the women obtain local prices on bulk and package 
goods, also fruits and vegetables in quantity. Make comparisons 
and compute savings. Have illustrative material on hand showing 
relative amounts, quantities, and prices of bulk and package goods. 
Do the same with ready-to-serve foods. Investigate local methods 
of storing and displaying bulk goods. Give figures for cost of one 
page of advertising in a good magazine. Compare cost of salad oils 
in bottles and gallon cans. 

Prepare list of meat, game, vegetables, and fruits with their best 
seasons, their sources, tests for quality, ripeness, etc. 

Discuss scales and measures found in groceries and markets and 
common fraudulent practices in their use. 

Prepare list of uncommon foods which are available locally or 
can be made so. 

Note fair-price lists as given in the local papers. If fair-price list 
is not printed the housekeepers shoidd organize to see that it is. 

REFERENCES. 

United States Department of Agriculture: 

Farmers' Bulletin No. 830. Marketing Esgs by Parcel Post. 
Farmers' Bulletin No. 703. Suggestions for Parcel Post Marketing. 
Department Bulletin No. 267. Methods of Wholesale Distribution of Fruits 

and Vegetables on Large Markets. 
Tear-Book Separate No. 738. Cooperative Marketing: Where? Whim? 

How? 



Lesson 6. Home Production of Food. 



AIM. 



To suggest ways in which women can aid in the home production 
of food, and encourage an increased production along the lines best 
suited to the community. 



USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 263 

4 

rOINTS TO BE BROUGHT OUT. 

1. Reasons why the home production of food should be encouraged : 

A. It offers a method of increasing- tha world's stock of food, 
especially those foods in which there is at the present time a great 
shortage. 

B. It usually means a reduction in the cost of food for the family. 

C. It aids in the matter of transportation. It is highly desirable 
that every home be as nearly self-supporting as possible. 

D. It frequently offers a method by which the housekeeper may 
add to the familj^ finances by selling any surplus products. 

2. Suggested ways by which the housewife may increase the food 
supply : 

A. Home garden. — Waste ground may frequently be utilized for 
a home garden and with small outlay can furnish fresh vegetables 
for use in season and a surplus for canning, clrjdng, or storing. The 
importance of vegetables in the diet makes a home garden a most 
valuable source of food for the famil3% and assures vegetables in the 
freshest possible condition. 

B. Orchard or small fruit raising. — Valuable for the same reasons 
given above. A larger cash outlay is usuall}' necessary, but the in- 
vestment is permanent and the returns may be enjoyed year after 
year. 

C. Beekeeping. — Requires a comparatively slight initial invest- 
ment and little time and attention. Furnishes a splendid food which 
can be used to supplement the sugar in the diet or for canning and 
preserving. Any surplus can be sold at a good profit. 

D. Maple sugar or sirup. — Where there are sugar maple trees 
available, the making of sugar or sirup is practicable as a source of 
food for the famih^, and an}^ surplus finds a ready market at a good 
price. 

E. Poultry. — If properly handled, a flock of hens should furnish 
both meat and eggs at an economical cost. Poultry may be fed 
jDartly on waste scraps from the table, but they must be supplied 
w ith additional protein food. It is unwise to undertake poultry rais- 
ing on an extensive scale without some experience and study, but a 
small flock may be kept profitably even in a restricted space such as 
a back yard, wnth such help as may be had from Government and 
State bulletins. 

F. Piegons and squabs. — I*igeons are easy to care for, multiply 
ra])idly, and may be raised in sufficient quantities to add consider- 
ably to the food supply. In food value, they are similar to poultry. 

(t. Rabbits. — Rabbits thrixe well, multiply rapidly, and when 
full grown, furnish good meat at a small cost. They may be raised 
in a small space, and much of their food supplied from waste 



264 USE AND PREPARATION OF FOOD. 

material, such as leaves and trimnungs of vegetables, lawn clippings, 
etc. 

H. Use of wild foods. — When wild foods which would otherwise 
go to waste are gathered and used for food, they are adding to the 
world's food supply, and may be considered with the home produc- 
tion of food. Such wild foods are : 

(1) Fruits. — These vary with the locality. Berries of many 
kinds, grapes, persimmons, plums, etc, may be used fresh or 
canned, dried, or otherwise preserved for winter. 

(2) Greens. — These furnish a valuable addition to the diet. 
Many varieties of wild greens may be used. 

(3) Mushrooms. — Different varieties grow wild in many 
places. Care must be used in selecting them since the nonpoison- 
ous varieties are similar in many ways to the poisonous varieties. 

(4) Nuts. — Nuts are valuable both for their protein and their 
fat content. They add food value and flavor to the meals. Many 
varieties grow wild, and may be stored in the fall for use during 
the year. 

METHOD or DEVELOPING LABORATORY WORK. 

This lesson is intended to offer suggestions which the teacher may 
use in various ways. A general class discussion on home production 
of food may be held, asking women who have had experience along 
any line to lead the discussion in connection with that subject and to 
give specific information which will be of service to other members 
of the class who are contemplating taking up such work. 

If the locality is especially adapted to certain lines of food produc- 
tion, such as beekeeping, poultry raising, and gardening, the class 
discussion may be supplemented with a lecture by an expert along 
this line. Some local person may be available for this purpose, or a 
specialist may be obtained from the extension department of the 
State agricultural college. The aim of the lesson may be made 
either to introduce new lines of home production of foods, or to en- 
courage the adoption of improved methods in those lines already 
undertaken. This must be decided by the teacher, according to the 
local needs. 

REFERENCES. 

U. S. Department of Agriculture: 

Farmers" Bulletin 936. The City and Suburban Vegetable Garden. 

Farmers' Bulletin 934. Home Gardening in the South. 

Farmers' Bulletin 1031. Fig growing in the South Atlantic and Gulf States. 

Farmers' Bulletin 937. Farm Garden in the North. 

Farmers' Bulletin 643. Blackberry Culture. 

Farmers' Bulletin 728. Dewberry Culture. 



USE AND PREPARATION OF POOD. 265 

U. S. Depnrtu.'ent of AgrituKure — Continued. 

Farmers' Bulletin 887. Raspberry Culture. 

Farmers' Bulletin 901. Everbearing Strawberries. 

Farmers' Bulletin 447. Bees. 

Farmers' Bulletin 516. Production of Maple Sirup and Sugar. 

Farmers' Bulletin 528. Hints to Poultry Raisers. 

Farmers' Bulletin 889. Backyard Poultry Keeping. 

Farmers' Bulletin 767. Goose Raising. 

Farmers' Bulletin 684. Squab Raising. 

Farmers' Bulletin 697. Duck Raising. 

Farmers' Bulletin 791. Turkey Raising. 

Farmers' Bulletin 496. Raising Belgian Hares and Other Rabbits. 

Farmers' Bulletin 796. Some Conunon Edible and Poisonous Mushrooms. 

States Relations Service Bulletin 464. Lessons on Poultry lor Rural 
Schools. 
Federal Board for Vocational Education : 

Vocational Rehabilitation Series No. 37. Beekeeping. 



Lesson 7. Community Kitchens. 



AIM. 



To discuss the types and methods of oiDeration of community 
kitchens and to investigate the need and possibility of establishing a 
community kitchen in the community. 

points to be brought out. 

1. Value of a community kitchen: 

A. Through centralization it is able to conserve food, fuel, labor, 
and energ}^ 

B. It can, when properly managed, furnish a product of a better 
grade at a less cost than can be prepared in small quantities in many 
homes. 

C. By concentrating the preparation of a large quantity of food in 
the hands of a few people it gives numy housekeepers extra time 
which they nuiy use for other purposes. 

D. It encourages the growth of a community spirit and cooperation 
' among individuals. 

E. Frequently it is under the supervision of a trained expert, who 
is able to give valuable suggestions on food to the women of the 
community who have had little or no training along this line. 

2. Types of community kitchens: 

A. Educational kitchen for demonstrations of food preparation 
■where women may bring their own materials to prepare under super- 
vision in order to learn the best methods. 



266 USE AND prepaeatiojSt of food. 

'^- . , . ** 

B. Canning kitclien. — This may be of the type which takes care 
of surplus or donated products and uses them for community or 
philanthropic purposes, or one which combines this type of work 
with canning- by individuals for themselves on shares or order. 

C. The dehydrating kitchen, which may be of tAvo types similar 
to the canning kitchen. 

D. A combination of a canning or drying kitchen with a com- 
munity bakery for the preparation of cooked food for home con- 
sumption. 

E. Cooked food center for the preparation, sale, or distribution 
of food. This may supply food for home use or have cafeteria service 
in the building, or both. 

3. Organization: 

A. Must be established in response to a definite need and must have 
the active backing of a sufficient number of people to make it a real 
community project. 

B. It may be organized by: 

(1) A club or other permanent organization already in exist- 
ence. 

(2) An emergency organization. 

(3) A special committee representing the municipality or 
made up of individuals specially selected. 

(4) Local organizations cooperating with school board. 

C. There should be an executive chairman in charge of the kitchen 
with chairmen of subcommittees as her assistants. These subcom- 
mittees might be: 

(1) Census and publicity. 

(2) Location. 

(3) Finance (source and expenditures). 

(4) Equipment and installation. 

(5) Supplies (source and collection). 

(6) Kitchen management. 

(7) Disposal of finished product. 

4. Methods of financing. — A working capital is essential, the 
amount necessary varying with the type and size of the kitchen. 
It may be obtained from: 

A. Individuals. — Frequently the easiest way to raise the neces- 
sary money, but may prevent the kitchen from being a real com- 
munity project. 

B. Emergency funds. — Kitchens founded primarily for the saving 
of food products are within the province of such organizations. 

C. Membership fee from each family using the kitchen. 

D. Loan from a local bank or business men. 

E. School board.— In many communities the school board would 
lend the school kitchen already equipped and allow the domestic 



USE AXD PREPARATION OF FOOD. 267 

science teachers to give a part of their time to supervise the work. 

5. Housing. — For convenience, the kitchen should be located in 
some central place. It might be a school kitchen, a churcli kitchen, 
part of a grange hall, a vacant store, a room in the city hall or court- 
house, a space in the market, or a private home. 

6. Equipment. — This varies with the type of kitchen and with the 
amount of work which is carried on. The best results are accom- 
plished with modern equipment which cuts down hand labor and 
accomplishes results with a minimum of lime and effort. The equip- 
ment may be secured by: 

A. Purchase with a part of the original capital. 

B. Loans or donations by local business firms. 

C. Original equipment of a school kitchen with slight additions. 

7. Methods of labor: 

A. Volunteer women who donate their services. — This is satisfac- 
tory only when under a careful system. An experienced woman 
should be in charge. If any woman is absent, she should be re- 
quested to furnish a responsible substitute. Supervision of the 
work from time to time by a woman with expert training is ex- 
tremely desirable. 

B. Volunteer women who work on a time basis and are paid in 
the products of the kitchen. The system of work should be as above. 

C. In general, the most satisfactory method is to put a regularly 
paid supervisor in charge with paid helpers. The supervisor should 
be a woman with training and executive ability. 

8. Disposal of product : 

A. Sold either to stockholders or to the public at large, to be 
carried home or served in a cafeteria in connection Avith the kitchen. 
The delivery of an entire hot meal in special containers is a recent 
variation which is extremely successful in some communities. 

B. Disposed of largely in payment for labor (usually a canning 
or dehydrating kitchen). 

C. Disi)osed of at public sales. 

D. Sold on shares to grocers or individuals furnishing materials. 

E. Donated to charity. 

9. Possible variations of conniumity kitchens: 

A. Community bakery. 

B. Soup kitchen, to supply soups or stews to homes and schools. 

C. Exchange for sale of homemade products. 

D. Community markets for fresh fruits and vegetables, eggs, and 
butter. 

E. Canteen service to deliver hot food to factories or offices at 
noon. 



268 USE AND PREPARATIOlSr OF FOOD. 

F. A food-facts center with information on general food subjects. 

G. A canning and drying plant to salvage tlie waste from city 
markets or to save the surplus from school gardens. 

H. A bureau to supply volunteer labor (Boy Scouts, Camp Fire 
Girls, etc.) to help in the harvesting of food crops which may or may 
not be turned over to the kitchen. 

METHOD or DEVELOPING LABORATORY WORK. 

This lesson may be given as a lecture and class discussion. In con- 
nection with it a survey should be made of the community to de- 
termine tlie need for some type of community kitchen, either seasonal, 
as a canning or drying plant, or permanent, as an establishment for 
supplying cooked food or as a center for food training and informa- 
tion on foods. If sufficient interest is shown, the project might well 
be undertaken by the members of the class as a means of putting into 
practical use the instruction which they have received in the course. 

REFERENCES. 

U. S. Department of Agriculture: 

Farmers' Bulletin 916. A Successful Community Drying Plant. 



PUBLICATIONS OF THE FEDERAL BOARD FOR VOCATIONAL 

EDUCATION. 

The Vocational Summary, published monthly by the Federal Board for Vocational Educa- 
tion (Vol. 1, No. 1. May, 1918). 
Bulletin No. 1. Statement of Policies. 
♦Bulletin No, 2. Training Conscripted Men for Service as Radio a,nd Buzzer Operators in the 
United States Army (International Code). 
Bulletin No. 3. Emergency Training in Shipbuilding — Evening and Part-Time Classes for 
Shipyard Workers. 
♦Bulletin No. 4. Mechanical and Technical Training for Conscripted Men (Air Division, IT. S. 
Signal Corps). 
Bulletin No. 5. (Reeducation Series No. 1.) Vocational Rehabilitation of Disabled Soldiers 

and Sailors. (Also printed as S. Doc. 166.) 
Bulletin No. 6. (Reeducation Series No. 2.) Training of Teachers for Occupational Therapy 
for the Rehabilitation of Disabled Soldiers and Sailors. (Also printed as S. Doc. 167.) 
♦Bulletin No. 7. Emergency War Training for Motor-Truck Drivers and Chauffeurs. 
♦Bulletin No. 8, Emergency War Training for Machine-Shop Occupations, Blacksmithing, 

Sheet Metal Working, and Pipe Fitting. 
♦Bulletin No. 9. Emergency War Training for Electricians, Telephone Repairmen, Linemen, 

and Cable Splicers. 
♦Bulletin No. 10. Emergency War Training for Gas-Engine, Motor-Car, and Motor-Cycle Re- 
pairmen. 
♦Bulletin No. 11. Emergency War Training for Oxy-Acetylene Welders. 
♦Bulletin No. 12. Emergency War Training for Airplane Mechanics — Engine Repairmen, 

Woodworkers, Riggers, and Sheet Metal Workers. 
Bulletin No. 13. (Agricultural Series No. 1.) Agricultural Education — Organization and 

Administration. 
Bulletin No. 14. (Agricultural Series No. 2.) Reference Material for Vocational Agricul- 
tural Instruction. 
Bulletin No. 15. (Reeducation Series No. 3.) The Evolution of National Systems of Voca- 
tional Reeducation for Disabled Soldiers and Sailors. 
♦Bulletin No. 16. Emergency War Training for Radio Mechanics and Radio Operators. 
Bulletin No. 17. (Trade and Industrial Series No. 1.) Trade and Industrial Education — 

Organization and Administration. 
Bulletin No. 18. (Trade and Industrial Series No. 2.) Evening Industrial Schools. 
Bulletin No. 19. (Trade and Industrial Series No, 3.) Part-Time Trade and Industrial Edu- 
cation. 
Bulletin No. 20. (Trade and Industrial Series No. 4.) Buildings and Equipment for Schools 

and Classes in Trade and Industrial Subjects. 
Bulletin No. 21. (Agricultural Series No. 3.) The Home Project as a Phase of Vocational 

Agricultural Education. 
Bulletin No. 22. (Commercial Education Series No. 1.) Retail Selling. 
Bulletin No. 23. (Home Economics Series No. 1.) Clothing for the Family. 
Bulletin No. 24. (Commercial Education Series No. 2.) Vocational Education for Foreign 
Trade and Shipping. 
Bulletin No. 25. (Reeducation Series No. 4.) Ward Occupations. 
Bulletin No. 26. (Agricultural Series No. 4.) Agricultural Education — Some Problems in 

State Supervision. 
Bulletin No. 27. (Agricultural Series No. 5.) The Training of Teachers of Vocational 

Agriculture. 
Bulletin No. 28. (Home Economics Series No. 2.) Home Economics Education — Organiza- 
tion and Administration. 
Bulletin No. 29. (Reeducation Series No. 5.) Treatment and Training for the Tuberculous. 
Bulletin No. 30. (Trade and Industrial Series No. 5.) Evening and Part-Time Schools in 
the Textile Industry of the Southern States. 

269 



270 rSE AXD PREPARATTOX OF FOOD. 

Bulletin No. 31. (Trade and Industrial Series No. 6.) Training Courses in Safety and 

Hyg-iene in the Building Trades. 
BullKtin No. S2. (Reeducation Series No. 6.) The Agricultural and Industrial Community 
■ for Arrested Cases of Tuberculosis and Their Families. 
Bulletin No. 33. (Reeducation Series No. 7.) Productive Vocational Workshops for the Rs- 

habilitation of Tuberculous and Otherwise Disabled Soldiers, Sailors, and Marines. 
Bulletin No. 34. (Commercial Series No. 3.) Commercial Education (Organization and 

Administration) . 
Bulletin No. 35. (Home Economics Series No, 3.) Use and Preparation of Food. 

All communications should be addressed to 

The Federal Board for Vocational Education, Washington, D. C. 

• Emergency war training for conscripted and enlisted men, 

o. 



^ 



BOSTON PUBLIC LIBRARY 

Illlllillllli , , 

3 9999 05987 781 9 



•ED 2GI920 



