CORNELL UN(VERSIT¥ LIBRARY 




924 085 806 093 



-■^'^^^iRzmwma^mm^mms^mmmmmmmss^^iSimm .. 



:,v^imsmMmMi 



% . 



,if^!ej«*,WI^ 



^wS^ 



tm, 



T^sLvammismsmmmMs 



IH^ 



■^^ 






i,rt. 






;o,|^THE€%5j 




MI/& WHYS ^i4, 




S> (» 



c 



,^^*#^$^« 



^\^ 



JANET Mc KENZIE HILL^ 




CINCINNATI 
THE PROCTER 5 GAMBLE CO. 






(. 



..1 \ "- 



J INTRODUCTION 

Every age has had its eooking problems. 
Brilhit Savarin, the French authority on good 
eating, declared: "The destiny of nations de- 
pends upon the manner in which they feed 
Ihenisehes." Knowledge of how to cook and 
what to cook is now a recognized science close- 
ly related both to happier life and to longer life. 

Every housewife has her own puzzling 
"Whys of Cooking." The use of Crisco for 
frying, for shortening, and for cake making 
has helped solve so many of them that we 
frankly acknowledge that this book is publish- 
ed to give greater publicity to the exceptional 
qualities of Crisco and to show why successful 
cooking to-day in hundreds of Lhousands of 
homes is linked cjuite naturally with thoughts 
of this perfected cooking product. 



Copuriglil, 1919. by The Procter & Gamble Co., Cincinnnli. 0. 
Regular Vriee of llua Booh, -ioc. 




\_/ saic 



one-time chef of Louis XVI 
nd: "Prominence in cookery 
never occurs under tliirty years of age, 
and nothing;' l>ut consummate experi- 
ence can elevate one to tlie rani: of 
chief professor. In connection with 
dihgent and studious ap])Hcation one 
must also possess no small share of in- 
tellect". What, then, is to become of 
our families while the mother is reach- 
ing the age ©f thirty? The first years 
of housekeeping are the most impor- 
tant, the period when the digestive 
habits of young children are forming: 
then, if e\-er, the home should be provided with well-prepared food. 

When the prudent, thoughtful housewife takes from the oven 
a loaf of sour bread or a cake with a heavy streak through it, or 
when her pie runs over and the best part of it is left in the oven, 
she is most desirous of knowing ivhy these things have occurred, and 
she sets herself to find out the cause, that she may avoid a repe- 
tition of such mistakes. 

Two hundred years ago, in the time of Ude, each individual house- 
keeper worked out the remedy for Ihese and other culinary mishaps 
only after many repetitions of the same bad results. .Vfter an ex- 
penditure of valuable time and thought, together with a waste of 
foodstuffs, the earnest worker discovered that, certain conditions 
being present, certain results would surely follow, and these discov- 
eries are now the rightful inheritance of the housekeeper of to-day. 
She should not be obliged to begin her work where her ancestors 
began, but should continue where they left off, and, better still, 
from the point at which her foremost sister of to-day has arrived. 

When a young housekeeijer realizes that in making yeast bread 
she is dealing with actual plants that must thrive and grow if her 
bread is to be good, she will understand why warm rather than 
scalding licpiid must be mixed M'ith her yeast; and henceforth she is 
likely to care for her miniature garden with intelligent forethought. 

3 



To the housewife some knowledge of the whys and wherefores 
of processes in cooking — as in all other processes — means to be 
forearmed; and in putting her knowledge into practice she may 
avoid much mortification of spirit as well as pecuniary loss and, 
what is of greater value still, insurance of a more cheerful and 
contented family. 

Such, then, is the motive for this little book; in its pages are to 
be set down the reasons why, for instance, meringues and soufHes 
fall; why bread is sometimes sour, pastry soggy, and cake heavy; 
why it is best to use a knife for one process and a spoon for another; 
why we should use bread flour in yeast mixtures and pastry flour for 
cakes and pastry. All these and many other hints and suggestions 
are herein set forth and made plain that she who runs may read, and 
be the gainer thereby in money and time, health and comfort. 

Nor is this all; for we must include herein something of the 
"Whys" in serving. Our full duty to our friends and the guests 
whom we invite to share our meals is not done when we have 
siuiplj' set before them well-prepared food. While one dish may 
constitute a meal, more often the meal is made up of several dishes, 
and the several dishes combined in a meal must be given particular 
attention. First of all, the dishes presented together, to be eaten 
at one meal, should conform to physiological demands ; and , secondly, 
they should be chosen to produce harmony of color, texture and 
flavor. To know why certain vegetables, salads and sauces are 
served with fish; and why certain other vegetables, salads and 
sauces with steak and chops, is to know the joy of the discoverer, 
for, in the actual doing of these things you yourself become a dis- 
coverer. It was La Reyniere who truly said the kitchen is a country 
in which there are always discoveries to be made. In these pages, 
also, may be found why certain dishes are chosen for dinner, others 
for luncheon and still others for Sunday night tea or supper. 

In short, through its questions and answers, the aim of the book 
is to offer information and suggestions such as are needful to every 
housekeeper. Of necessity our space is limited and some points up- 
on which light is desired may have been omitted, but this will not 
work to disadvantage if the habit of asking"why?" and of searching 
for the answer becomes formed. No woman with a family in her 
care should be satisfied until she knows the "why" of each and 
every operation that is carried on in her especial domain, the kitchen. 



Iii)im0lilri3( 



WHAT CRISCO IS 

Crlsco is the rich cream of vegetable oil, delicate, odorless and 
tasteless, a product of unusual merit, ideal for frying, for shorten- 
ing, and for cake making. Crisco is a ])rimary fat which has 
numerous advantages o^•e^ lard, butter, compounds, margarines 
or l>utterincs. 

Four years of se\'ercst tests and exhausti\'c experiments in which 
Crisco demonstrated its value as a wholesome, nutritious, ab- 
solutely pure cooking fat, prefaced lis introduction lo the pul)lio. 
It was under such exacting conditions of faithful research that 
Crisco was perfected. 




THE CRISCO FACTORY 




I'^W 




AUTOMATIC FILLERS. 

CRISCO'S SUCCESS 

For eight years Crisco has been marketed with such growing 
favor that it is an accepted staple liandled by progressive dealers 
in every state and province on the American continent. It is sig- 
nificant that millions of competent housewives as well as many 
dietitians and chefs have chosen to use Crisco to the exclusion of 
other cooking fats. In many Schools of Domestic Science Crisco 
is given the preference because it is a vegetable product, absolutely 
pure, entirely wholesome and of a dependable, uniform quality 
that makes good results certain. Crisco is recognized as a better 
product. Its use quickly becomes a habit, for there is no substi- 
tute for Crisco as a rich food fat for cooking. 

THE MANUFACTURE OF CRISCO 

Crisco is the brand name of a pure cooking fat made po.ssible 
by the hydrogenizing processes in use by The Procter & Gamble 
Company. Only such a process can convert vegetable oil into a 
rich cream such as Crisco. 



The oil is filtered, given its proper consistency liy tlie addition 
of pure hydrogen and tiien sterilized by \ery liigli heat. Nothing 
but hydrogen is added to the oil to gain this consistency essential 
to the easy and proper combining of Crisco with flour and sugar. 

This hydrogenizing process is respon.siblc for the peculiar vir- 
tues of Crisco. Crisco is what is known in chemistry as a .synthetic 
product, i. e. "a fat made to order." This makes it possible so to 
govern the ])rocess of hydrogenizing that the resulting protluct shall 
have fewer faults than a natural ]>roduct. .V cooking fat made by 
this process, such as Crisco, has less teridency to become rancid, 
to smoke when heated and give off strong odor. And the true 
shortening components are present in greater percentage. The 
details of this hydrogenizing process are controlled exclusively by 
The Procter &; Gamble Company. 

THE CRISCO BUILDING 

The Crisco building, devoted solely to the preparation f)f Crisco, 
is a handsome, modern structure of rugged stone and brick. It 
stands quite alone within spacious grounds tliat during the rest 
hours are used for tennis and other outdoor recreations. 

The vast rooms are walled with glass and flooded by sunlight 
which shines through windows that never need be oj)ened, for the 
air in circulation throughout the factory is water-washed; driven 
into the rooms dust free and germ free-l— pure. Every employee 
is dressed in white. Daily changes of clothing arc made. 

The floors of the Crisco building are of terrazzo. Pillars, ceil- 
ing and refrigerating timnels are of white tile. Corners e\'erywhere 
are rounded to make constant cleaning a simple matter. 

These spotless appointments — plenty of pure air and floods of 
l>right sunlight — arc what keep Crisco pure in its passage through 
the packing room. Not a human hand ever touches Cri.sco either 
in process of manufacture or jjacking. It is put into bright, new, 
vacuum-cleaned cans by machinery which is nickeled, enameled 
and kept spotlessly clean. Crisco passes automatically througli 
the tiled refrigerators. In fact, even the labeling and wrapping are 
done by marvelous machines that grasp the cans with fingers of 
steel and do the work more deftly than human hands. 

THE TRIBUTE OF THE AGES 

The nation which outlived all others in the world's history 
put up barriers against lard centuries ago. To the Jew Crisco 

7 



proved welcome for the good reason that it conforms strictly to 
his important Dietary Laws. Being Kosher and a "parava" or 
neutral fat, it can be used with both "milchig" and "fleichig"(milk 
and flesh) foods. While Crisco sold to the Jewish trade carries a 
Kosher seal certified by Rabbi Margolies of New York, nevertheless 
all Crisco is "Kosher" and of identical purity. 

THE UNIFORM PURITY AND QUALITY OF CRISCO 

Crisco never varies, either in purity or quality. Its absolute 
cleanliness is another unfailing advantage which means so much 
to the housewife who is anxious that nothing may enter into her 
cooking which might impair its wholesonieness. 

One can of Crisco is the same as another can of Crisco. It is 
the same as it was yesterday and as it will be fo-morrow. Because 
of this uniformity Crisco is in a class by itself. There is no substi- 
tute for it. From the time it leaves the factory in air-tight tins 
until it is opened in your own kitchen Crisco is never exposed. 




COOLING TUNNELS. 



UNEQUALED FOR FRYING 

Successful frying is an art. Someone lias said that frying is 
cooking in boiling fat. This is not cjuite accurate but tiie temper- 
ature of the cooking fat nuist be hot enough virtually to roast the 
surface of the food, yet not hot cTiough to cause it to scorch. Foods 
fried in C'risco look appetizing because Crisco gi\'es up its heat so 
quickly that a tender, brown crust forms almost instantly, thereby 
allowing the inside of the food to bake instead of to become soaked 
with grease. 

With Crisco came the revelation that it is possible to fry foods 
without spoiling the taste of the food itself l)y the flavor of the 
cooking fat u.sed. Crisco, odorless and flavorless, with its delicate, 
clean freshness, brings out all the natural, dainty, appetizing flavor 
of the food. Fried chicken takes on a new taste and fried eggs 
are as delicate as if they were poached. Fried fish an.d fried oys- 
ters have new appetizing flavors. Potatoes, either white or sweet, 
are unusually tasty when fried in Crisco. Saratoga Chips are 
different — crisp and ap[)elizirig without the grease which comes 
with the old method of preparation. Housewives who u.se Crisco 
in making doughnuts rjuickly acquire the reputation of making 
"the best doughnuts in the neighborhood."" Salted almonds and 
peanuts have a new appeal when pre])ared in Crisco. Crisco meets 
the severest tests in deep fat frying and all other frying. By usmg 
Crisco you banish the greasy taste so often found in foods. 

THE SECRET OF GOOD PASTRY 

Pastry shortened with Crisco is light, flaky, tender and crisp. 
It is easy to digest. Some of the most distinguished chefs in the 
land who pride themselves on the superiority of their pastries, are 
using Crisco for their finest foods. Pies made with Crisco are 
more delicious. The crust will break at the touch of a fork. 

UNCHANGED FATS 

The general impression is that all foods are changed in cooking. 
The fact is that all shortening remains unchanged. For instance, 
if you make a pie with lard, nearly one-third of the crust, by weight, 
is composed of raw lard. The same is true if Crisco is u.sed. Fats 
are not changed in cooking unless sometimes for the worse. Thus 
the desirability of using the purely vegetable and wholesome Crisco 
is all the more apparent. 



GOOD CAKE MAKING 

Cake made with C'risco is unusually rich and tasteful; stays 
moist and fresh a surprisingly long time and costs less. Butter, 
always much more expensive than Crisco, is no longer an essential 
to success in cake making. Crisco is so delicate to work with that 
it is used wilh equally successful results in the simplest and plain- 
est as well as in the richest fruit or layer cakes. 

CRISCO ALL SHORTENING 

Crisco is all shortening. Even the very best grades of butter 
contain nearly one-fifth water, curd and salt. The salt is added 
to preserve the butter and give it flavor. AVhile salt gives flavor 
it adds no richness and water has no value as shortening. Crisco 
contains no water and needs no salt to keep it sweet. Water and 
salt can be added in the needed proportions but the use of Crisco 
lessens by one-fifth the amount of shortening required. 

A BREAD-BAKING SUGGESTION 

To brush bread with Crisco during the last rising makes it brown 
more easily, giving it a fine, nutty flavor and aids in the formation 
of a thin, tender crust. If you would like to give your bread a fine 




SHORTENINGS— ANCIENT AND MODSRN. 
AFRICAN SHEA NUT BUTTER, WRAPPED IN LEAVES, AND CRISCO. 

10 



"butter crust" after baking', brush witli .sailed Crisco as llie bread 
eomes hot from the oven. The proportions are 1 tcaspoonful of 
salt to I 2 cupful of Crisco. These splendid uses of Crisco in bread 
baking improve the texture, make the color better and the taste 
richer. The plan more generally in use :of covering newly-baked 
bread with a cloth drives in the moisture and makes bread soggy 
and less appetizing. To l>rush over with Crisco prevents crusts 
from hardening without lessening their crispness, and makes every 
crumb edible. 

IDEALIZED COOKING 

Kitchens are kept sweeter when Crisco is used. There are no 
irritating odors of superheated fats. The reason why is clear. 
Butter will smoke at a temijeratue of ?^^29 degrees, lard at 400, 
while Crisco does not smoke until it reaches 4.5.3 degrees. This is 
heat much higher than necessary for frying. 

]\Iotliers tind that cookies, made with Crisco, are wholesome, 
appetizing sweets for the children. Fudge, tatties and other can- 
dies made with (^nsco are excepi lonally good. 

In. all the affairs oi life good digestion plays a most im])ortant 
part. All foods made with Crisco are digested more easily. A 
child can understand the reason for this. The normal teuiperature 
of the human body is 98 ^5 degrees. Crisco melts at 07 degrees, 
which is less than body lemjjcrature, thus enabling the digestive 
juices to mix freely with it. The melting point of lard is about 
10.5 degrees and that of lard com]:)ounds even higher. Stearine, 
used in so many compounds, is hard and indigestible. 

You can fry fish, then onions, and tlif'n ]:)otatoes in the same 
Crisoo and each dish will retain its own distuiclive taste with no 
suggestion of tlie other. Simply strain the melted Crisco through 
cheesecloth and Oisco retains all its original purity and sweetness. 

If there are any "Whys" in your own cooking or in the use of 
Oisco ■^\hicli puzzle you do not hesitate to take up these questions 
with us. 

We want you to feel that we are at your ser^'ice, glad of any 
opportunity t(j help you in the cause of better foods, for better 
foods will figure largely in making a better nation. 

Sincerely yours, 

THE rRociER & ga:mble company. 

11 



CleaiiUness and comt'iLieMce are back of a good kitchen. Cleanli- 
ness requires careful thought for walls, floors, absence of moldings, 
closeting of utensils, plenty of sunshine and fresh air. 

Starting with the floor, there are four possible finishes; the old- 
fashioned wooden floor without finish, the wooden floor oiled with 
crude oil, linoleum, or asbestic composition. The wooden floor with- 
out finish requires too much scrubbing to be cleanly, the oiled floor, 
though undoubtedly a serviceable one, is 'unsightly; but either li- 
noleum or asbestic comi)osition is desirable. Both are easily cleaned. 
The latter is a yielding substance like cork, and is laid over any 
wooden flooring. 

The walls of a kitchen should be painted, and preferably in 
yellow or light tan where the room lacks window lighting, and in 
light green or blue where the room is full of sunshine. A wain- 
scot of tile is ideal but expensive. Moldings are dust catchers 
and should be avoided. 

Ventilation and light are, of course, important. Where one is 
building, it is desirable to have windows on opposite sides to gain 
a cross current of air. A window over sink or at one side of it 
admits light and air where it is greatly needed. In screening 
the kilchen windows, see that the screens slide iK"^^ so as to be 
adjustable for top or 
bottom sash. Then 
upper or lower win- 
dow can be opened as 
required. In very 
warm weather there is 
a noticeable cooling 
of air when the upper 
window sashes are 
lowered, as the warm 
air that rises to the ceil- 
ing will find a ventilat- 
ing current of air from 
window to window. movable kitchen wagon. 

12 





I few 
with 
with 



SMALL KITCHEN. 

(Right-liand .ind Inwer walls as ih<:y appear on Plan A, below) 

Under the subject of cleanliness conies the hand sink. This 
admits of hand washing without recourse to the sinl< in which 
dishes may be standing, and should be regarded as a necessity 
rather than as a luxury. On leaving the kitchen even for 
moments one's hands come in con- 
doors, chairs, stair rails, telephone 
many other objects much 
handled and liable to hold 
germs that are dangerous 
to health. For this reason, 
anyone occupied with tlie handling 
of food should wa.sh and dry liis 
hands again and again. 

Passing to the consideration of 
convenience, size of kitchen is the 
first item. Naturally it depends 
much on the number of persons 
using it, or the locality of it, whether 

in the limitations of city residences or the more extensive areas 

13 





LARGE KITCHEN. 

{Rigbt-hand and lower walls as they appear on Plan B, page 15} 

of country houses. But there is one general principle that is 
always most important — that the range, sink, table, cupboard, 
storage shelves must all be arranged in proper relation to each 
other. To save steps, they should be grouped in as compact a 
space as possible. Then let each utensil be kept as near as pos- 
sible to the place where it is used and to the place where it is 
cleaned after use. 

To illustrate the general principles cited above, we show two 
kitchens, one small and the other somewhat larger. From these 
two beginnings almost any combination of features can be built 
up, these to suit tlie personal taste and wants of the individual. 
It is obvious that no set plan will suit everybody. 

PLAN A 

Floor plan shows the smaller kitchen arranged in almost a 
square. Looking at this plan as you .see it on the page, it shows 
the upper wall and the right wall opening outdoors, while the lower 
wall and the left wall open to other rooms of the house. In upper 
wall there would be window and outside door with half-glass panel, 

14 





1 


■^ 


1 








l—sd fc 


1^'" 


Ki~ 


■^^ 


1 '^""^L^-^A 


1 


1 ' ^rr^- 

1^ 


i 





LARGE KITCHEN. 

(Lcft-liiiriil arul uppiT ualls as tlu'j' appear on Plan B, hclow) 



and in the right-hand wall, two wind 
wall is the entrance to the 
dining room, this being near 
to the range, a feature alwaj's 
desirable because of the 
short carriage of food 
from stove to tabic. (In 
this plan we provide no 
pantry or other separat- 
ing passageway between 
kitchen and dining " 
room. This feature is 
shown in the plan of the 
larger kitchen.) 

Keeping in mind the 
lower and the right-hand 
walls, here we group the 
range, the table, and the 
givesyouthestorage place 



ows. In the lower 



PLAj^ (S) 




kitchen cabinet. This group 
of groceries and utensils from 

15 



.liich 




BUTLER'S PANTRY, LARGE KITCHEN. 

(Plan B, pago 15) 



the cooking process starts; then the table is at your right, the place 
where the food is prepared; and at the right of the table is the 
stove, the next successive utensil. From the range, the next step 
is to the door of the dining room. 

After the meal, the dishes go to the sink, and from there to the 
dishware closet at left wall. Here, again, the dishes for the dining 
table are close to the range for serving. Tt will be seen tliat the 
only crossing of the room is to get the cold storage foods from the 
refrigerator in the upper left-hand c^irner. 

In the illustration on page 13, we show the lower wall (as it 
appears on floor plan), and the right-hand wall (as it appears on 
floor i)lan). At left of picture, a corner of the sink shows, this 
sink appearing on the upper wall on the floor plan. 

In the illustration we have the three objects in a cluster — the 
cabinet, the work table, and the range. These three units are the 
ones that are used in the preparation of foods, and this grouping 
saves many steps. It is understood that no particular set of stove, 
table, and cabinet will suit every individual, but we give here the 
working principle which is nearest the practical labor-saving 

IG 



arrangement. Any range can lie suhstitnted for the one we show, 
any talilc can he nsed, antl any kintl t)f shelving or cupboard can 
replace the kitchen cabinet; hut the general idea, of having the 
food-utensil unit next to the tabic unit and the table next to the 
stove unit, is a good one. All sorts of ^•ariations can Ijc made with- 
out disturbing this central idea of cluster. For instance, a shelf 
and hook rack for condiments, sjioons and forks, used continually 
in preparation of food, could be placed against the wall just over 
the table. The table can be of plain wooden top, but the ideal 
co^•ering is zinc. Also this table could be on broad, easy-shifting 
castors, so that it could be used in any part of the kitchen re- 
qun-ed. 

We have suggested here a small kitchen without expensive 
built-in features, but, when we consider the sink, then the very best 
should l»e had. This sink can Ije of whiter enamel or slate. Which 
is best is a matter of intlividual taste. The enamel is cleaner 
looking, but not so servicealjle where hard nsage is necessary. The 
height of the sink is important, but here, again, the individual 
should determine his particular likings. But there should be a 
grooved drain-board on either side of the sink; this draiu-lioard set 
at a slight angle to insure draining into the sink. 

Against the left-hand wall (as seen on the floor plan) is the re- 
frigerator and an enclosed cabinet for storing the cleaning articles, 
such as broom, dust pan, fl(jor brushes, etc. The refrigerator 
would l>e better were it built in (as in the plan of the large kitch- 
en), but we give this arrangement as the.best for a sim])le kitchen 
without exjjensive features. The refrigerator would be near the 
entranc-c door, handy for inscrtii)n of the ice. In selecting a refrig- 
erator, be sure to obtain one that is well insulated with eight to 
twelve thicknesses in the walls. The cabinet for holding the clean- 
ing articles should be provided with a door the whole width of the 
front. Stove polish, oils for the floor, mops, brooms, brushes will 
be stored away from the open kitchen, and yet be at hand for ready 
service. 

As this plan has a gas range, tiiis kitchen would require a ra- 
diator for heating purposes. This appears at left of sink. To the 
right of the gas range is a hot water boiler with gas water heater. 

PLAN B 

This ])lan shows a larger kitchen, about fourteen by sixteen feet, 
with best of equipment. The entire upper wall (as it apjjears on 

17 



floor plan) is open to out-of-doors, and tlic upper half of the right- 
hand and the left-hand walls is open to the air. Thus one-half of the 
wall space is cut with windows and the outside entrance. The 
lower wall (as it appears on the ])lan) and the lower half of the 
right-hand and the left-hand walls are partitions for other rooms. 

For ventilation the two windows over the sink at left and the 
window in the right wall provide a cross current of air. Besides, 
there is a window and a glass panel door in the upper wall. The 
doors are four, that of the upper wall leading to the ]>orch, that in 
the right-hand wall to the butler's pantry, and those in the lower 
wall to the cellar and upstairs. This back stairs for servant's use 
is always desirable. 

Referring to the illustration on page 1.5, we have the left-hand 
wall and the ujjijer wall (as they appear on the floor plan). The 
second illustration, on page 14 gives the right-hand and the lower 
walls (as they appear on the floor plan). 

In the illustration on page 15 we have the group of range, sink, 
grocery cabinet and table. The table would be on rollers and be 
provided with a zinc top. Its size would vary from 2x3 feet to 
;? X ,5 feet. This could be pushed near to the other three articles 
of the group. Also, the built-in grocery cabinet would be provided 
with sliding boards. Here would be kept all articles of food not 
necessarily placed in the refrigerator. The shelves and racks for 
tins are to the left of the stove, but do not appear in the illustration. 
Thus the working group of provision cabinet, worktable, stove, 
and tin closet — four units closely inter-related^are re-enforced by 
a fifth unit, the siTik. 

Another view of the same kitchen, the illustration on page 11, 
shows the built-in refrigerator with an outside door for insertion 
of ice. The feature of this fixture (note the plan on page 13) is 
the provision of three outside walls, insuring a cool storage place 
that means saving in ice bills and perfect refrigeration. 

To the right of the window is the cabinet for cleaning utensils. 
Next to this is the door to pantry, and then the door to cellar. 
To the right of this door is the shelving for pots and kettles. This 
shelving is but a step to the range. 

The sink for washing dishes is practically the same as noted in 
the small kitchen plan. There would be a hand sink of white 
enamel (see illustration on page 1.5, right-hand side). We have 

18 



already emphasized the importance of clean hands in the kitchen. 
Above this sink would be a roll of tissue towels, which, when torn 
oft' after use, can be burnt. 

Heat would be su[)plied by a radiator in the upper left-hand 
corner (as it appears on floor plan). The range, as w^e show it, is 
a cabinet gas range with a six-burner top, a shelf and hood above 
it. Below is a twenty-inch baking OA^en, a broiling oven, and a 
second baking oven; this latter provided with a glass door. Over 
this second oven is a plate-warming closet. A hot water boiler and 
gas water heater stand next to the range. 

Here, again, as in the case of the smaller kitchen, all sorts of 
variations are possible to suit the individual, but the general plan 
shows a basis of practical working kitchen. 

On page IG is the butler's pantry. By referring to the floor 
plan of the larger kitchen, the agreement of this illustration and 
the plan is apparent. There is a window with a small sink for 
filling the water glasses. The open sheb es will take cure of much 
used china, while the closed shelves will contain the rarer china. 
In the drawer space can be kept the table linen and the table silver. 



The following list of kitchen articles will be of help to the housekeeper in 
selecting the furnishings. Naturally the number in the family determines the 
size and quantity of utensils, such as pans and kettles. t'se only the highest 
grade of enamel ware as the cheaper kinds chip off. Be careful to avoid wares 
that chemically effect the foods. 



tea kettle 

kettle 

coffee pot 

steamer 

stew pan 

pint saucepan 

quiirt aaucepan 

2-quart douhle boiler 

wire broiler 

frying pans; 

Scotch bowl for fryin;,' 

covered roasting pan 

earthenware baking pan 

bread pans 

cake pans 

muffin pans 

pie pans 

baking dishes 

earthen cups 

cooky tins 

potato masher 

colanders 

strainer 

flour sifter 



bread mixer 

miMog buwis 

mixing spoons 

pint and quart measures 

scales 

molding boards 

rolling pin 

can opener 

corkscrew 

meat knil'e and fork 

steel table knil'e 

steel paring knife 

bread knife 

knife sharpener 

meat grinder 

meat axe 

meat board 

chopping knife 

steel forks 

cover 

.skewers 

wire toa,sters 

nutmeg graters 



flour dredgers 

magic cover 

lemon squeezer 

large grater 

coffee mill 

salt shaker 

spoons 

egg beater 

wire strainers 

bone salt spoon 

wooden and steel spatulas 

towel rack 

hand towels 

needle, coarse thread 

soap shaker 

scraper for sink 

dish pan 

dish towels 

rinsing pans 

soap dishes 

bins for flour, sugar, meals 

spice containers 

clock 



19 



The effect of properly cooked food may be almost entirely lost 
by lack of care in its serving. The proper serving of food relates 
not only to its actual disposal on the serving dish, but has refer- 
ence to the appearance and temperature of the room in which it is 
served. The manner in which the table is laid and the furnishings 
of the table may make or mar a meal. To say that "we eat with 
our eyes" .should not be called an exaggeration, for if food be pre- 
sented in a neat, orderly and pleasing manner, its appearance will 
cause a flow of the digestive juices and not only occasion an appe- 
tite for food, but supply the ability to digest it. 

Food in individual portions should be disposed on a serving dish 
to present a symmetrical outline. The dish should not look crowded, 
and at least one-third of the space should be free from even a gar- 
nish. Let hot food be presented hot and cold food properly chilled. 




TABLE SET FOR BREAKFAST. 
INSERT SHOWS INDIVIDUAL COVER 



I 



20 




SUPPER TABLE SETTING. 
INSERT SHOWS INDIVIDUAL COVER, 

RUSSIAN, ENGLISH 
AND 
COMPROMISE SERVICES 



Three forms of table service arc recognized; the English, the 
Russian, and the Compromise, which is a combination of the other 
two. The Russian style of service is formal, and is attempted in 
full only when the attendants are skillful and numerous. In this 
form of service no food — save bonbons, relishes or salted iuit.s — 
appears upon the table — everything is served "from the side." 
Good Russian service implies that no one at table be obliged to ask 
for anything he needs; thus if one is to eat a dish with a sauce, 
the same must immediately follow the di.sh; rolls, water, butter, 
sauces and salads must l)e supplied at the instant they are desired. 
To attend to the wants of six or eight jjcoplc at table, at least one 
attentive, skillful maid will be needed, besides the cook. The food 
separated into individual portions, is either set down from the right 
hand before those at table, or, plates being in place, the food sepa- 
rated into individual portions, is passed to the left of each, that each 
may help himself or be helped by the one in attendance. Dishes 

21 



of food are not set down upon the table but are returned to the 
serving table or the pantry, from which place they are taken when 
a second helping is desired. 

When true English service is essayed, all the food belonging to 
one course (as meat, hot vegetables, green salad, bread) is set up- 
on the table and served from it, the plates being passed by a maid; 
it is then cleared away before another course is brought in. 

When the compromise service is used, some courses (as a choice 
vegetable or a salad) are served from the table (English style) and 
some are brought in from the pantry in individual portions and 
set in place (Russian style). In brief, food served English style is 
served from the table; served Russian style, it is served "from the 
side," while a combination of the two is the compromise style. 

Let your dining table be not too highly polished, but well-built 
and as handsome a piece of furniture as your conscience will allow. 
Economize on some other piece of furniture. For linen, use doilies, 
runners or a cloth for breakfast and luncheon, but choose a fine 
damask cloth for the serious business of dining. Send if you must 
all other articles to the public laundry, but have table linen laun- 
dered at home. 




SETTING FOR HOME DINNER. 
INSERT SHOWS INDIVIDUAL COVER. 

22 



^Yllen layiui;' llic tal>le. tirst uf all pi-ofcci \\ \>\ sdiiic sofl of an 
inner covering; a silence cloth of table padding, or an ashestos 
mat, the exact size of the tahle, covered with cotton are used un- 
der a damask cloth; small covered ]iads are used under doilies. In 
humdering a tablecloth, fold once lengthwise exactly through the 
center, then when uoiicd roll on a pastelboard cylinder. Let the 
cloth hang the same distance from the floor on all sides. Let floral 
decorations accord with the size of the table and the style of serv- 
ice. From one to three small blossoms are all that is desirable on 
a table less than five feet in diameter. 

LAYING THE TABLE AND THE COVER 

Xo matter what the style of ser\'ing, with or without a maid, 
the laying of the table, as far as the co\ crs are concerned, is always 
the same. By "cover" is meant the i)lace plate (i)late which marks 
the ])lace of an indi^"idual), glasses, sib'cr and napkin to be use<i 
by each individual. The co^'ers on o])posite sides of the table 
should be directly op[)osite each other, or, in case of an odd nuni- 
lier, e(pially distant from each other. 

The jjlace jjlates, at least ten inches in diameter, shoidd be set at 
the center of the cover, one inch from the edge of tlie tabic; at the 
right of the plate lay the knife, souj) spoon and fork for oysters or 
lujrs d"(.)euvre in the order of use, the one first used farthest from 
the plate; the cutting edge of tlic knife should be towards the plate, 
the bowl of the spoon upwards. At the 'eft of the j>late set the 
forks, tines ujiwards, the one first used farthest from the jjlatc, \\ itli 
the napkin beyond it. If a maid be in attendance, the siher for 
the dessert should be set in place after the table is cleared for the 
dessert course. At a meal where no knife is reffuired, as often at 
Sunday night tea or a chafing-dish s])read, place the fork at the 
right liand; if only one other piece of sih'er be retiuired — as dessert 
spoon or fork — set this, also, at the right, the one first used farthest 
from the plate. Do not crowd the se\'eral articles of the co\'er, let 
them lie rather compactly and in such ma.nner that the whole may 
form a separate unit in the center of iO to ?>() inches of space. 

At the point of the knife set tlie glass of water; the Iiread-and- 
butter plate or the tiny "chip" for butter is set at the left of the 
glass. Bread-and-butter |)lates are for home use, and es|)ccially at 
Ijreakfast and luncheon; butter is not sup[)o.sed to be needed at 

23 



dinner and only the tiny "cliip" is in evidence. The place for the 
"spreader" is across the top of the jjlate, handle towards the right. 
Salt and pepi)er receptacles are set between each two covers. 

SUGGESTIONS ON SERVING MEALS 
WITHOUT A MAID 

With one exception, the laying of the table, as far as the cov- 
ers are concerned, is always the same whether a maid or a member 
of the family is to serve the meal. When the meal is served by 
someone sitting at table, all flat silver to be used during the 
meal is given a place on the tal)le when it is laid. Silver for the 
dessert may be set aljove the plate, handles toward the right. 
This is the preferred position. The only other position possible, as 
the dessert is served last, is l)etween the knife for the roast and the 
plate. This disposal of the silver is in accordance with the accepted 
custom of placing flat siher in the order of its use, the piece first 
used farthest from the plate. This position for the small pieces of 
silver used with the dessert detracts from the symmetry of the 
cover and it seems preferable to dispose it above the plate. When 
a maid is in attendance flat silver for the sweet course is set in 
place just before serving this course. 

As far as possible, save those in the final sweet course, every 
article of food that is not to be kept hot for a time should be set 
in place on the table before the call to the meal is given. Plates 
of hot and cold bread, a reserve supply of butter, pitcher of water, 
cream and sugar, jelly, relishes and all condiments that are liable 
to be called for, should be grouj^ed upon the table in a symmetrical 
manner. Just before announcing the meal, fill the glasses with 
water, set individual dishes of tnittcr in place, then while the fam- 
ily is assembling bring in the coffee or tea, if it is to be served at 
the beginning of the meal, and such other hot di.shes as are pro- 
vided, on a wheel tray or on a small light table on castors. After 
(he subsl-intiiil course is eaten, the wheel tray is at hand for the 
removal of all food from the table, and the used china and silver. 
In a large family, remove the food first and return with the wheel 
tray for the dishes; then crumb the taljle, and on again returning 
to the dining room bring in, on the tray, the des.sert and the china 
for its service. The wheel tray lessens the trips to and from the 
kitchen. Often, in a small family and where the hot dish is the 
one served first, llie second course witli china may stand on the 
tray at the left hand of the mistress of the house and she need not 
rise from the table until the close of the meal. 

24 




SETTING FOR LUNCHEON. 
INSERT SHOWS INDIVIDUAL COVER 

WHYS OF SERVING 
(IN GENERAL) 

(1) ^'hy use a silence cloth under a tablecloth? 

Ans. An inner covering over a table protects the table, insures 
against noise and improves the appearance of even the choicest 
damask. 

(i) Why sometimes use doilies or runners instead of a lablocloth? 

Ans. Doilies and runners arc more easily laundered than table- 
cloths. In case of accident the taljle is more easily restored to 
a good condition. With a rectangular shaped table, "runners," 
suitable for two "covers" on opposite sides of the table and a 
dish (as bread) between them, are very satisfactory. 

(") Why are the knives, soup spoon and liors d'oeuvrc fork set at the right 
of the plate and all other forks at the left of the plate.' 

Ans. The silver set at the right of the plate is that which is to 
be used with the right hand, the silver at the left of the plate 

iS 







SETTING FOR FORMAL DINNBIR. 

is that which is to be used with tlie left hand. If no knives 
are needed, the dishes presented being such as are eaten with 
forks (at a Sunday night tea, chafing dish spreads, etc.), the 
forks would be set at the right of the plate. 

(4) Why is the silver laid in order of use, the piece first used farthest from 
the plate? 

Ans. This method of laying the table, being widely known and 
followed, settles the question as to the piece of silver to be used 
for each course as it appears on the tabic. Also, as the silver 
thus laid is used and removed "the cover" is left in a neat 
and compact whole. 

(.5) Why in refilling a glass of water should the glass be drawn to the edge 
of tfie table by the bottom of the glass, or, if the table be crowded be 
lifted by the bottom of the glass? 

Ans, Because the hand of the attendant should not come in con- 
tact with the top of the glass. 

(6) W^hy should a tray be used to pass cream and sugar or two relishes? 
Ans. Several small dishes may be passed at one time on a tray, 
which, otherwise, would have to be passed separately. 

26 



(7) ^Vhy not serve each vegetable in an individual dish? 

Ans. Small dishes cumber the table, make work, and, with the ex- 
ception of chilled plates for salad served with the fish or roast, 
serve no essential purpose. 

(8) "Why, as far as possilile, should all piles of plates be eliminated from the 
table at which people are sitting? 

Ans. Piles of plates obstruct the view, and are in the way of the 
one who carves or serves. In serving without a maid, the 
plates may be set on a wheel tray or small table at the side 
of the table. In serving English fashion, the maid brings two 
plates, one in each hand, sets the one in her left hand before 
the carver, takes up the filled plate and sets it before the one 
for whom it is prepared; she returns with one plate, which she 
exchanges for the prepared plate waiting for her, and so con- 
tinues. 

WHYS OF SERVING (RUSSIAN STYLE) 

(1) Why use a damask cloth (over a silence cloth) for the dinner table? 

Ans. Dinner is the [)rincipal meal of the day and calls for as formal 
and dignified accessories as the style of living permits; and a 
table completely covered with white carries out this idea. 



*^^ 

^^i^ 



p"-— *- ^^^\ I 




SETTING FOR FORMAL DINNER. 

27 



(i) Why, in serving a meal Russian style, is nothing set upon the table at 
any time save the china and sliver belonging to the individual covers, 
the flowers, bonbons, and perhaps salted nuts? 

Ans. All of the food is served by the attendants and they can take 
the food from side tables and pantry more easily than from the 
table at which the guests are seated, also a dish is no addition 
to the appearance of the table after part of it has been served. 

(3) Why sometimes make an exception iu favor of a fruit cocktail, choice 
strawberries, prepared grai)efrult or raw oysters served in a first course? 

Ans. This first coiu-se set in place before announcing the meal 
adds to the decorative character of the table and may be con- 
sidered as a part of the table decoration. 

(4) W'hy are ser\'ing tables at cither end of the dining room almost a neces- 
sary feature in a well-equipped dining room? 

Ans. Serving tables at the ends of the dining room make for effi- 
ciency and quick service. 

(5) Why should food prepared on individual plates be set down at the right 
hand of those seated at table, and a platter of food from which one is to 
help himself, or be helped, be presented at the left hand? 

Ans. Seated at table one cannot help himself easily to anything 
presented at his right hand. 




BREAKFAST TRAY. 



(1) Why are fried foods so pleasing to the taste? 

Ans. When food is properly fried the outside is seared over so 
tjuickly that the flaxor and jiiiees within are retained in full; 
also the outside is caramelized — as it were — giving an addi- 
tional flavor that is most enjoyable. 

(i) Why are properly fried artieles tree of all exeess of fat? 

Ans. If articles made of flour, as fritters and doughnuts, contain 
eggs in sutBcient quantity and the fat be at the riglit tem- 
perature when they are set to ct)ok, the fat will coagulate the 
egg u])on the outside and make a covering, which the fat 
cannot penetrate. In tlie same manner fat is excluded from 
crociuettes, cutlets, fish, oysters, etc., coated with egg and 
crumbs. 

(3) Why is a cast-iron, round-bottomed, Scotch bowl a good utensil for 
frying purposes? 

Ans. The Scotch bowl stands firm on the stove, it is not injured 
bv heat, and is of such shape that, wdhout callnig for a large 
quantity of fat, it holds enough to cover the articles to be 
cooked. 

(i) Why use a basket in frying such articles as croquettes, oysters, etc.? 

Ans. By the 
use of a 
basket a 
n u m ber 
of soft 
articles 
that re- 
q u i r e 
cooking 
the same 
length of 
time may 
be let 
down in- 

to the fat, SCOTCH BOWL. 

drained and lifted out all at once. 

29 




(5) ^^ hy i-S it liece.ssai\>' to set the articles in the basket apart, one from 
another? 

Ans. If the articles touch each other, steam is formed that softens 
the otherwise crisp exterior. 

(6) Why is deep fat frying considered preferable to sauteing? 

Ans. Because deep fat frying is more economical of fat and the 
articles so cooked more wliolesome. 

(7) How is deep fat frying more economical than sauteing.' 

Ans. In sauteing an article, after one side is cooked, it is turned 
to cook the other side; there is no opportunity to drain the 
cooked side, and, exposed to the air, it cools and admits the fat, 
thus making the process wasteful and the food less digestible. 

(8) Why is it important in deep frying to use plenty of fat.' 

Ans. Unless there is a good body of fat when cold food is put 
into it, the temperature is so quickly reduced that no protect- 
ing crust is formed, and the food cjuickly soaks up the fat. It 
is also important not to put too much cold food into the fat 
at one time. 

(9) Wli\^ test the temperature of fat \\ ith a bread crumb.' 

Ans. It is less wasteful to test with a crumb than with the un- 
cooked article, especially if the process must be repeated. 

(10) Why allow only 30 seconds to brown the crumb when French fried pota- 
toes are to be cooked, while 60 seconds are counted l>efore the fat is 
thought ready for dovighnut.s and fritters? 

Ans. The fat for French fried potatoes nuist be rather hot when 
the potatoes are lowered into it as, the potatoes being chilled, 
the temperature is lowered at once. 

(11) Why set Crisco over the fire in an unhealed pan? 

Ans. Crisco — as all fats — is less wholesome if subjected to too 
high temperature, and if put into a hot pan some portion of 
it is liable to be overheated. 

(15) Why not wait until Crisco smokes before frying? 

Ans. When frying with lard, the point at which it smokes is fre- 
quently considered as the proper frying temperature. The 
smoking point of Crisco is considerably higher than the proper 
frying temperature, and if it siuokes, it is much too hot for 
proper frying. The safest way, therefore, is to always test the 
frying medium with a bread cruiub. 

(13) AVhy is the high smoking point of Crisco a distinct advantage? 
Ans. When any fat smokes, it decomposes and forms a substance 
which is irritating to the digestive organs, and this substance 

30 



is absorbed by food fried in smoking' fat. Then, too, it is pos- 
sible to fry with Crisco and not have a kitclien full of smoke. 

(14) Why strain fat through two or three folrls of chcescch)lh each time 
after frying.' 

Ans. Crisco that has been used contains flour or particles of food; 
these burn at a much lower temperature than Crisco does and 
luiless removed will, on reheating', burn and discolor the Crisco. 

(15) Why is but one kettle of Crisco needed for frying fish, doughnuts or any 
other article.' 

Ans. Articles properly fried retain all the flavor and impart none 
to the fat. To counteract any carelessness in frying, the fat 
may be clarified by cooking a few slices of raw potato in it. 

(16) Is it ever advisable to use cracker crumbs, and if so, when and why.' If 
not, why are bread crumbs preferable? 

Ans. Soft bread crumbs are best to use for coating. They hold 
more moisture than cracker criunbs and give a better color. 

(17) Why do doughnuts sometimes crack in frying, occasioning a rough surface? 

Ans. When doughnuts crack, try adding a little more milk; prob- 
ably they have been mixed too stiff. The dough for dough- 
nuts should be as soft as can be handled. 

(18) Why does raw potato clarify the fat? 

Ans. Raw potato contains considerable water; while frying, this 
water evaporates and carried with it the odors and flavors it 
has absorbed. 

(19) Why turn doughnuts and fritters repeatedly rather than allow them to 
cook one one side continuously until done? 

Ans. Doughnuts and fritters are turned as soon as they rise to 
the top of 
the fat and 
often there- 
after that 
the\' may be 
of uniformly 
fine texture 
throughout. 

(20) Why set all ar- 
ticles taken 
from the fat at 
once on soft or 
tissue paper at 
the opening of 
the oven door 
for a few min- POURING USED CRISCO THROUGH SIEVE 

. ; BACK INTO CAN. 

utes ? 

31 




Ans. While the article remains hot the soft paper will absorb any 
surplus of fat on the surface. 

(21) AVhy use soft, fresh bread rnimbs ralher than dried erurabs for breading 
articles to be fried? 

Ans. Soft crumbs give a better looking and thinner crtist than do 
dried crumbs. 

(22) Why is it essential that every portion of the croquette, fish, etc., be cov- 
ered with egg and crumbs.'' 

Ans. If any portion of the article be unprotected with the coat- 
ing, fat will enter and the juices will flow out. 

(23) Why is it unnecessary to turn fish, cuUels, eroquelles, etc., during frying 
in deep fat? 

Ans. As the whole oliject is immersed in hot fat during the 
whole time of cooking, turning is unnecessary. 

(24) In coating an article with bread crumbs, is it always necessarj' to u.se egg? 
Is the entire egg used, or simply the egg white? 

Ans. Eggs are always used in coating articles to be fried in deep 
fat. The whole egg makes the best coating. 

THINGS TO REMEMBER IN CONNECTION 
WITH THESE RECIPES. 

In deep frying, do not wait for Crisco to smoke. Heat Crisco until a crumb of bread becomes a 
golden brown in GO seconds tor raw dougli mixtures, as cruilers.l'ritters, etc.; 40 seconds for cooked 
mixtures, as croquettes, codtisli balls, etc.; 20 seconds for French fried potatoes. Seconds may be 
counted thus: one hundred and one, one hundred and two, etc. 

The fat may he tested also by dropping into it a little piece of the article to be eookcd. When it 
rises to the top, bubbles vigorousl.v and i)rown quickly, the fat is hot enough. When fried foods 
absorb, it is because Crisco is not hot enough, or because you have not used enough Crisco. Use 
[)leuty and the raw foods, if added in small quantities, will not reduce the heat of the fat. The ab- 
sorptiou in deep Crisco frying should be less than that of another fat. 

RECIPES 
WHOLE FRIED POTATOES 

Crisco for frying whole potatoes, pared 

As the fat bubbles (from the water in the potatoes) during the whole time of 
cooking, we might perhaps speak of these potatoes as boiled in Crisco. Have 
the potatoes pared, soaked in cold water an hour or more, then dried on a 
cloth. Select rather small potatoes. Let cook until they can be pierced with 
a skewer; drain on soft paper at the oven door, and serve at once. The pota- 
toes should be mealy and are particularly good. As many may be cooked at 
once as the frying kettle will conveniently hold. Time, about half an hour. 

32 

Jsr !erel me<iRnrements 
Jiir alt inijrcdienU 




DOUGHNUTS 

2^ cupfuls sifted flour } 

2 leaspooufuls baking powder 

J. 2 teaspoonful salt 

Jj teaspoonful nutmeg 



J/2 tablespoonful Crisco 

1 egg 

;j cupful sugar 

J2 cupful milk 



Sift together the flour, baking powder, salt and nutmeg and with two knives 
work in the Crisco. Beat the egg, and beat in the sugar and the milk and stir 
into the dry ingredients. Take out a little at a time on a floured board, roll 
into a sheet, cut out with a doughnut cutter and fry in Crisco. The fat is at 
the right heat when it browns a crumb of bread in 60 seconds. 



33 




FRENCH FRIED POTATOES 

Pare tlie potatoes, cut tlieui in lialves lengthwise, and then ill pieces like the 
section of an orange. Let stand in cold water an hour or longer, then dry on a 
soft cloth and fry in hot Crisco to a rich, straw color and until tender thrnugh- 
out. Drain on a skimmer and then on soft paper, sprinkle with salt and serve 
at once. The fat is at the right heat when it browns a crumb of bread in 
20 seconds. 



34 




CHICKEN CROQUETTES 



1 egg, heatt-n liglit 

l}^ cupl'uls I'ookod rliioken 
(in cubes) 

2 eggs, beaten 
,'4 cupful milk 

Suit sitlecl bread crumbs 



}4 cupful (risen 

}-4 cupful Hour 

yi teaspoouful salt 

'3 teaspoonful black pepper 

1 cupful chicken broth 

^ , cupful cream 

Crisco 
Melt the Crisco; add the flour, salt and pepper and stir nnlil bubliling through- 
out; add the broth and cream and stir nnlil boiling; add the egg ami continue 
to stir and cook without boiling until the mixture separates a little from the 
saucepan; add the chicken, mix and turn onto a plate. When cold, sliape, roll 
in the crumbs, cover «ith the eggs mixed with the milk, and again roll in the 
crumbs. A\ hen all are ready remo\e superfluous crund.>s and fry in Criseo 
heated until a soft bread crumb dropped into it will brown i?i 40 seconds. 
Drain on soft paper. Ser\e at once with green peas or as|)aragus lips. 



35 




WAFFLES 

2 cupfuls pastry flour 1 cupful thin cream 

i teaspoonfuls baking powder ,'4, cupful sweet milk 

J4 teaspoonful salt J^icupful melted Crisco 

2 egg yolks 3 egg whites 

Sift together the flour, baking powder and salt; beat the yolks, add the cream 
and milk and stir into the dry ingredients, add the Crisco and whites of eggs 
beaten dry and beat all together thoroughly. Bake at once on a hot wcll- 
Criscoed waffle iron. 



36 



POTATOES ANNA 

Pare potatoes (white or sweet) and cut them leiif^thwise into slices one-fourth 
an inch in tliickness; carefully put the slices loKclher lo retain the original 
shape of the potatoes. Have ready wooden toothiiicks covered with melted 
C risco, run two of these through each potato to keep the slices together (not 
too compactly). Soak the potatoes an hour or more in cold water, let boil ten 
or fifteen minutes in boiling salted water, then drain and set in a baking pan. 
pour over three or four tablespoonfuls of melte<l Crisco and let cook in the oven 
until tender, basting each six or seven minutes with hot Crisco from the pan. 

POTATO PATTIES, WITH PEAS 

Select rather long potatoes of uniform shape and size; pare, cut off a slice, 
then hollow to make cups or thin shells. Let stand in cold water till about 
ready to serve, then wipe dry and fry in deep, hot Crisco. The shells should 
cook until tender in from six to eight minutes. Drain on soft paper at the 
oven door; sprinkle the inside with a little salt and use as receptacles for 
cooked peas, seasoned with salt, sugar, black pepper and butter. Creamed 
fish, chicken, or almost any variety of vegetable may be ser\'ed in these 
patties; the patties are to be eaten with the contents. 

POTATO FRITTERS 

3 eggs, beaten light 2 teaspoonfnfs baking powder 

;2 cupfuls inashe(| potato 1 teaspoonful salt 

1 cupful sifted pastry Hour 14 teaspoonful pepper 
Crisco for frying 
Do not separate the whites and yokes of the eggs for beating; gradually beat 
in the potato (hot or cold), tlien beat in the flour sifted again with the other 
ingredients. Drop bv the large teaspoonful into hot Crisco; let cook to a 
golden bro\\ n, turning often; drain on soft pa[)er. Serve with or without fish 
or meat. 

FRIED EGGPLANT 

half slices of eggplant soft, sifted bread crumbs 

i egg, beaten liglit salt and pepper 

'3 cupful milk Crisco for frying 

Cut the eggplant in halves lengthwise, then cut in slices half an inch in thick- 
ness and remove the purple skin; sprinkle with salt and pepper, dip in the 
egg mixed with the milk, ilrain and pat in the crumbs, turning to eoat the 
whole surface. Fry two or three slices at a time. The Crisco is at the right 
heat w hen a crumb of soft bread Ijrowns in about CO seconds. 

CANNED PINEAPPLE FRITTERS 

1 egg yolk, beaten light 1 tablespoonful sugar 

]i cupful canned grated ] i cupful and i, tablespoonfuls 

pineapple pastry flour 

1 tablespoonful lemon juice >2 tablespoonful baking powder 
],4 teaspoonful salt (scant) 1 egg white, beaten very light 
Crisco for frying 
To the egg yolk add the salt, sugar, lemon juice and pineapple (cooked); stir 
in the flour sifted with the baking powder and, lastly, fold in the egg white. 
Take up the mixture by tablespoonfuls and with a teaspoon scrape it into the 
hot Crisco in a round mass; turn often until done; drain on soft paper, dredge 
with powdered sugar and serve at once. Bananas, peeled and pressed through 
a ricer, may be used in place of the pineapple. 

37 

XJac leiwl measiiremenis 
for all inijreil'n'.ul.H 



BREADED HALIBUT HEARTS, FRIED 

Have four slices of cliieken halibut cut from a short distance above the tail. 
The slices should be a generous half-inch thick. Remove the skin and central 
bone to get two heart-shaped pieces from each slice. Beat one egg and 
add three tablespoonfuls of milk. Roll the fish in soft, sifted bread crumbs, 
seasoned with salt and pepper, and dip each in the egg to cover complctel}', 
then co\'er again with the crumbs. Fr>' in deep, hot Crisco to a golden thrown. 
Do not have the Crisco too hot as the fish should cook about four minutes 
before it is colored enough for the table. When right, the Crisco should change 
a crumb of bread to a golden brown in aliout (JO seconds. Serve with a 
cupful of mayonnaise dressing into which a few drops of onion juice and two 
tablespoonfuls of chili sauce or tomato catsup luive been stirred. 

HALIBUT CUTLETS 

I'j cupfuls cooked fish, flaked '2 cupful flour 
,'4 teaspoonful salt '2 teaspoonful salt 

1 tablespoonful lemon juice 1 cupful fish broth or milk 

ji cupful Crisco 1 egg, beaten light 

1 teaspoonful grated onion '3 cupful cream 

1 tablespoonful chopped 1 egg,,;! tablespoonfuls milk 

green pepper soft sifted bread crumbs 

1 tablespoonful fine-chopped parsley, Crisco 
Sprinkle the salt and lemon juice over the fish. Melt the Crisco; in it cook the 
onion and pepper without (liscoloring any of them; add the flour and salt and 
stir and cook until frothy; add the liquid and stir until boiling; add the egg 
mixed with the cream and stir without boiling until the egg is set; add the 
prepared fish and turn upon a dish. When cold mold into one dozen cutlets. 
K<jl! in crumbs, cover with beaten egg mixed with milk and again cover with 
crumbs. Fry in hot Crisco. Mix the parsley with the crumbs for the final 
crumbing. The Crisco should brown a bread crumb in 40 seconds. 

FRIED FILLETS OF FRESH FISH 

Use any fresh fish from which strips without skin and bone ma^y be taken. 
Scrape a little onion juice over the fish and season with salt; roll in soft, sifted 
Ijread crumbs. Beat an egg and add three tablespoonfuls of milk or water; 
dip the egg over the pieces of fish to baste each piece completely, then again 
roll in crumbs; fry in hot Crisco to a golden brown. Serve hot with a cupful 
of mayonnaise dressing to which two tablespoonfuls, each, of chopped capers, 
olives, pickles and parsley have been added. The Crisco is at the right tem- 
perature when it will brown a crumb of bread in GO seconds. 

INEXPENSIVE LAMB CUTLETS, BREADED 

Buy three or four pounds of the forequarter of lamb, and have it cut to get the 
shank in one half and the scrag or neck in the other half; take the scrag half, 
remove the shoulder blade, and cut at the backbone (with the cleaver) to 
separate into cutlets. Steam over boiling \\ater until tender. Set to press 
under a weight until cold. Dip each cutlet in an egg, beaten and diluted with 
milk, then roll in soft, sifted bread crumbs and fry in hot Crisco until well 
colored. Serve with string beans, carrots or turnips and potatoes. The 
Crisco at using should brown a crumb of soft bread in 40 seconds. 

38 

Use ierei measurements 
far all ingredients 



BANANA CROQUETTES 

Select siuuU, ripe bananas; remove tlie peel anil serape off tlie coarse llireads 
from the pulp; trim off the ends to make each banana the length of a cylinder- 
shaped croquette. Beat one egg and add two or three tablespoonfuls of milk. 
Roll the bananas in the egg to cover completely; then roll in soft, sifted bread 
crumbs. Fry in hot Oisco and drain on soft paper. Serve as a vegetable with 
beef or lamb, or serve with hot sweet sauce as a dessert. Tlie following sa\ice 
is appropriate. 

CURRANT JELLY SAUCE 

Boil one cupful of granulated sugar and one-third a cupful of water four or 
hve minutes; add u small glass of currant jelly and beat unlil smooth. 

FRIED OYSTERS THAT ARE DIFFERENT 

Wash ami dry the oysters, dip in a beaten egg diluted with two tablespoonfuls 
iif milk and roll in fresh-grated cheese. Set them aside for ten Tninutes and 
thendip a second time in the egg. After the second dipping, roll in Hue, scjfl 
bread crumbs. Fry in deep Crisco, drain and serve with celery and rolls. 

CUTLETS OF LAMB, PORTUGUESE FASHION 

1 cupful cold cooked lamb 1 egg, beaten light 

3 slices cooked bacon Yi teaspoonful salt (scant) 

3 anchovies 1 teaspoonful grated onion 

2 tablespoonfuls brown sauce 1 egg, 4 tablespoonfuls milk 
Ji teaspoonful paprika soft sifted brearl crundjs 

1 teaspoonful fine-chopped Crisco for frying 
parsley 

Let the meat be free from all unedible portions; press this with the bacon and 
anchovies (small fish put up in salt or oil) through a food chopper; add the 
sauce (left over with the meat) and other ingredients and mi->c all together thor- 
oughly; less salt may be neede^l if the anchovies are salty. Roll the mi.xture 
into balls and flatten these into cutlet shapes; roll in flour, then in the egg 
beaten and mixed with the milk, anil, lastly, in the crumbs. Fry in hot Crisco 
Ser\'e with mashed potato and tomato sauce or ste\\eil tomatoes. The Crisco is 
right for frying the cutlets when it brow iis a cruudj of soft bread in -tO seconds. 

CHEESE CROQUETTES 

3 tablespoonfuls Crisco ^4 teaspoonful jiaprika 

ll cupful flour 1 cupful common cheese cut in 
y^ cupful milk or chicken small cubes 

broth I'i cupful bits of pimiento 

2 egg yolks, beaten light 1 egg with l tablespoonfuls milk 
]/2 cupful grated cheese soft sifted bread crumbs 

34 teaspoonful salt Crisco fur frying 

Melt the Crisco; in it cook the flour, add the liquid and stir until boiling; add 
the egg and let cook without boiling until the egg is set; stir in the grated 
cheese and seasonings, then fold in the cubes of clicese and s[)reail on a 
Criscoed plate. "When cold, shape, cgg-and-brc'ad-crumb, and fry in hot 
'.'risco. Serve at the same time bread and a green vegetable with or without 
French dressing. These are good with rolls and plain celery. The pimientos 
may be omitted. 

39 

J'<SP Icvfl uiciisiimiu-. 
fur nil nnjrnhrnh 



CHEESE FRITTERS 

ly4 cupfuls Scalded milk y^ cupful Crisco 

^4 cupful cornstarch 2 egg yolks 

}i cupful pastry flour }i teaspoonful paprika 

J/2 teaspoonful salt }4 to ^1 whole cupful grated 

}4 cupful cold milk cheese 

(1 egg, soft bread crumbs, Crisco for frying) 
Stir the cold milk, flour, cornstarch and salt to a smooth consistency; then 
add to the hot milk and stir until the mixture is thick and smooth, cover 
and let cook fifteen minutes. Cream the Crisco; beat in the yolks one at a 
time and stir into the hot mixture; add the paprika and cheese and stir all 
together evenly. When the cheese is melted, turn the mixture into a Criscoed 
shallow dish to make a layer from half to three-fourths an inch thick. When 
cold cut in two-inch squares or in strips three or four inches long and an inch 
wide. Cover with crumbs, then with beaten egg diluted with two tablespoon- 
fuls milk, and again roll in crumbs. Fry in hot Crisco; drain on soft paper. 
Serve with a green salad or cooked fruit and bread as the hearty dish for lunch- 
eon or supper. For a change use tomato puree (cooked tomatoes pressed 
through a sieve) in place of the milk. 

SALMON-AND-POTATO CROQUETTES 

1 can salmon or salt as needed 

2 cupfuls fresh cooked salmon 1 egg 

2 cupfuls mashed potato soft sifted bread crumbs 
Ja teaspoonful paprika Crisco for frying 

With a silver fork pick the fish fine; add the potato and tlie seasonings and» 
if at hand, a very little drawn butter or cream sauce. The potato may be 
used hot or cold, but is better hot. Mix all together thoroughly, then form 
into shapes of balls, corks or cylinders. Roll in^ crumbs, dip in the egg, beaten 
and mixed with its bulk of milk, then again in crumbs and fry in hot Crisco 
about one minute. 

SAUSAGE CROQUETTES 

Season two cupfuls of hot potato that has been pressed through a ricer with half 
a teaspoonful of salt, a few grains of paprika and one or two tablespoonfuls of 
Crisco; ndd the beaten yolk of an egg; mix and use to cover evenly some cold, 
cooked sausages; shape by rolling on a board in same manner as croquettes; dip 
in egg and roll in sifted bread crumbs; cook In deep Crisco. Drain on soft paper. 

RICE CROQUETTES, EASTER STYLE 

^4 cupful rice 1 egg, beaten light 

3 cupfuls hot milk orange marmalade 
^i teaspoonful salt 1 egg 

J4 cupful sugar ;y tablespoonfuls milk 

X cupful Crisco soft bread crumbs 

Crisco 
Set the rice over a quick fire in a quart or more of cold water and stir until 
boiling; let boil two minutes, drain, rinse in cold water and drain again; cook 
in a doul>le boiler with the milk and salt until the rice is tender and the milk 
is nearly absorbed; (more milk may be needed); add the sugar, Crisco and 
egg, mix and let cook until the egg is set; turn upon a plate and when cooled 
a little form into egg sliapes, pressing a teaspoonful of niarmalade or jelly into 
the center of each. Dip in egg, beaten and diluted with milk, then roll in 
crumbs and fry in hot Crisco. Drain on soft paper. Serve with Frothy Sauce. 

40 

C^se level rneasuremenis 
for ail ingredients 



FROTHY SAUCE 

Cream half a cupful of Crisro and beat in one cupful of sugar; add the beaten white 
of one egg; when ready to use stir in half a cupful of boiling water, half a tea- 
spoonful salt, one tablespoonful lemon juice and one teaspoonful vanilla extract. 

HAM CROQUETTES 

J4 cupful Crisco 1 Ji cupfuls rich milk 

,'4 cupful flour 1 cupful boiled rice 

J 2 teaspoonful salt 1 cupful chopped ham 

J2 teaspoonful paprika 1 egg, beaten light 

Make a sauce of the Crisco, flour, seasonings and milk; add the egg, cook until 
it thickens, but without boiling, then add the rice and ham (cooked). Mix 
thoroughly and turn on a dish to become cold. Form into balls or cylinder 
shapes, roll in soft, sifted bread crumbs then in a beaten egg, diluted with 
three or four tablespoonfuls of milk or water, and again in crumbs. Fry in 
deep Crisco. Serve with peas, stewed tomatoes or tomato salad 

MACARONI CROQUETTES WITH CHEESE SAUCE 

1 cupful macaroni, cooked IK cupfuls liquid (milk and 
tender stock or tomato puree) 

J4 cupful Crisco 2 eggs 

yi cupful flour 3 tablespoonfuls milk or water 

1 teaspoonful salt sifted bread crumbs 

}-! teaspoonful paprika Crisco for frying 

Measure the macaroni after breaking in pieces. Cook till tender in rapidly 
l)oiling salted water, drain, rinse in cold \\ater and drain again. Melt the 
C'risco, add the flour and seasonings and stir and cook until bubbling through- 
out, add the liquid and stir until boiling, then stir in the cooked macaroni cut 
into half-inch rings. Turn onto a plate. When cold, shape, roll in crumbs, 
cover with the egg mixed with the liquid and again roll in crumbs. When 
ready to cook shake off superfluous crumbs and fry in Crisco, Drain on soft 
paper. Serve at once with cheese sauce poured over. 

CHEESE SAUCE 

j-^ cupful Crisco yi teaspoonful paprika 

^ cupful flour 2 cupfuls of milk 

yi teaspoonful salt yi to \ whole cupful grated cheese 

Melt the Crisco, in it cook the flour, salt and paprika, add the milk and stir 

until boiling; add the cheese and stir until melted. 

MOLASSES DOUGHNUTS 

'iyi cupfuls flour 1 egg and 1 yolk, beaten light 

1 teaspoonful baking powder '4 cupful thick, sour milk 

yi teaspoonful cinnamon ^•^ cupful molasses 

y^ teaspoonful salt K teaspoonful soda 

Sift together the flour, baking powder, cinnamon and salt; sift the soda into 
the sour milk and stir until it foaras; add to the egg with the molasses and stir 
into the dry ingredients. A little more flour may be needed. Keep the mixture 
soft. Take upon the board in small portions, knead slightly, roll into a sheet, 
cut into rounds and fry in hot Crisco. 

41 

Use lerd nicusiircinciils 
for all infjrcdiciils 



ORANGE KNOTS 

3 tablespoonfuls Crisco 4 cupfuls sifted flour 
^^ cupful sugar }i teaspoonful salt 

1 egg and 1 yolk, beaten 1^2 teaspoonfuls cream of 

light tartar 

grated rind 1 orange li teaspoonful soda 

34 teaspoonful mace ]i cupful milk 

Cream the Crisco, beat in the sugar, the eggs, orange rind and mace. Sift 
together the dry ingredients; add the first mixture and the milk and mix to a 
firm dough. Cut off bits of the dough and roll under the fingers into strips 
the shape and length of a lead pencil, tie in a knot or shape like an 8 and fry 
in hot Crisco; drain on soft paper, and dredge with confectioner's sugar. 

SWEDISH TIMBALE CASES 

^4 cupful flour 2 egg yolks 

Y2 teaspoonful salt J2 cupful milk 

Beat the yolks; add the milk gradually, then stir, little by little, into the flour 
and salt sifted together. Let the batter stand, covered, an hour or more be- 
fore using. Pour part of it into a cup a little larger than the timbale iron; heat 
the iron in the hot Crisco; shake off the Crisco. then lower the iron into the 
batter to not more than two-thirds its height, then transfer the iron to the hot 
Crisco and hold it there until the thin cup-shaped batter is crisp and amber-col- 
ored; drain over the fat, then shake from the iron onto soft paper. The finished 
case should be thin and crisp; if soft and thick add to the batter a teaspoonful 
of milk, a few drops at a time. Uo not hit the bottom of the bowl either in 
dipping the iron or frying the case. To serve, fill with cooked chicken, fish 
or vegetable (as peas) in cream sauce. (See Creamed Chicken). Brown the 
crumb while you count thirty to test the heat of Crisco. 

POTATO DOUGHNUTS 

4^2 cupfuls sifted pastry flour 3 eggs, beaten light 

4 teaspoonfuls baking powder 1 cupful granulated sugar 

1 teaspoonful salt 3 tablespoonfuls melted Crisco 

}i nutmeg, grated 1 cupful mashed potato 

^2 teaspoonful soda 3^ cupful thick sour milk 

Sift together all the dry ingredients; to the eggs, add the sugar, Crisco, mashed 
potato and sour milk and mix all together, then stir into the dry ingredients. 
Take a little of the dough on a floured hoard, knead slightly, pat and roll into 
a thin sheet, cut in rounds and fry in hot Crisco; drain on soft paper. 

CHEESE FINGERS 

,'4' pound cheese, grated (1 cupful) 1/i teaspoonful paprika 
yi cupful soft sifted bread crumbs 2 tablespoonfuls Crisco 
]/2 teaspoonful salt 1 cupful milk 

1 teaspoonful mustard 1 egg, beaten light 

(1 egg, milk, soft sifted bread crumbs, Crisco) 
Cook the cheese, crumbs, salt, seasonings, Crisco and milk over hot water, 
stirring constantly, until the cheese is melted and the mixture is thickened 
somewhat. KAA the egg and turn into a Criscoed dish of such size as will give 
a depth of three-fourths an inch to the mixture. Set the cheese in the oven 
in a dish of boiling water, and let cook about fifteen minutes. When cold cut 
in strips about three-fourths an inch wide and the length of the finger. Roll 
in crumbs, dip in beaten egg diluted with milk, roll again in crumbs and fry 
in hot Crisco; drain on soft paper. Serve at once with bread and a green 
vegetable salad or stewed fruit. 

42 
JJst \e.rd mca.tiiremertis 
fo^r all ingredients 



CRULLERS 

1}4 cake compressed yeast ' ; cupful melted Crisco 

}4 cupful lukewarm water '2 eggs, beaten light 

1 cupful scalded and cooletl 1 cupful sugar 

milk 1 2 teaspoonful mace or nut- 
IH cupfuls bread flour meg 

(about) bread flour for soft dough 

1 teaspoonful salt (about 4 cupfuls) 

Crumble the yeast into the water; mix and add to the milk; then stir in the 
first quantity of flour, more may be needed; beat until snniotli, cover and let 
stand until light; add the other ingredients and mix to a dough; knead until 
smooth and elastic and set aside in a bowl, brushed over on the inside with 
Crisco, until doubled in bulk. Turn upon a board dredged with flour and roU 
into a sheet about half an inch thick; cut into strips about three-fourths an 
inch wide; twist these and shape them like the figure 8. Let stand until light 
(less than half an hour) then fry in deep Crisco. The Crisco should not be 
as hot as wlien frying doughnuts made with baking powder or similar agents, 
as they require longer cooking. For these a crumb of bread should take 70 
seconds to brown. 

SWEET POTATO CROQUETTES 

2 cupfuls cooked sweet 1 egg, beaten until well 
potato mixed 

)4 teaspoonful salt 2 tablespoonfuls milk 

^4 teaspoonful cinnamon soft sifted bread crumbs 

2 eggs, beaten light Crisco for frying 

The potatoes may be baked or boiled; press while hot through a ricer; beat the 
two eggs, the salt and the cinnamon into the potato; more salt may be needed. 
I/ct cool a little, then roll in the hands into balls; form on a board into cylinder 
shapes. Roll the shapes in the soft crumbs, cover with the egg mixed with the 
milk, and again roll in the crumbs. After standing a short time, roll the shapes 
again to remove any loose crumbs. Fry in hot Crisco about one minute. The 
Crisco is at the proper temperature when a crumb of bread dropped into it 
will brow'n in 40 seconds. 

SALT CODFISH BALLS, EN SURPRISE 

2 cupfuls raw potatoes (pared 1 egg, beaten light 

and cut in quarters) J4 cupful thick white .sauce 

1 cupful salt e(.)dfish, in bits }^ cupful sardines in bits 

}4 teaspoonful pepper Crisco for frying 

Have the sardines mixed with the white sauce (use 1 tablcspoonful of Crisco 
1 J-2 tablespoonfuls of flour and }4 cupful of milk in making the sauce) and the 
mixture chilled. Put the potatoes in a saucepan, pour in boiling water nearly 
to cover llie potatoes; above and at the center of the potatoes set the fish, 
cover and let cook until the potatoes are done; drain in a large gravy strainer; 
pick out the potato and press it through a ricer into the hot saucepan, add the 
fish, pepper and egg and beat all together thoroughly; shape into balls, in the 
hands. As the codfish balls are shaped, make a depression in the top of each 
and insert part of a teaspoonful of the sardine mixture; draw the potato mix- 
ture over to enclose the filling. Fry in hot Crisco. These may be made with- 
out the sardine filling. 

43 

Use lerei measnremrnta 
for all ingredients 



Cake is classed with candy as a luxury for occasional rather 
than daily use. Expensive materials enter into the composition of 
cake and, unless these are improved by the combination, it were 
better to eat them as tliey are than to waste time and effort in 
combining them. The two things essential to success in cake 
making are the mixing of the materials and the baking of the 
mixture. One may learn to mix cakes in an hour, but skill in 
baking cake comes only from considerable experience; yet most 
Jiousekeepers learn to bake cake before attempting many less diffi- 
cult matters. 

Two A'arieties of cake are recognized: sponge cake (made with- 
out shortening) and cup cake (made with shortening). A perfect 
sj)onge cake should be 
slightly moist, very 
lender, and filled with 
minute bubbles of uni- 
form size, i'otato 
flour (usually sold in 
pound packages), fine paper under cake makes removal easy. 
granulated sugar, a clean fresh lemon and fresh laid eggs are the 
ingredients necessary for the choicest sponge cake. Potato fiour 
thickens more than wheat flour, and only half the quantity desig- 
nated for wheat flour is required; it makes an exceedingly delicate 
and tender cake. A sponge cake when baked should never be 
brown, but of a pale, yellow color both without and within. 

In mixing a shortened cake, tlie creaming of the shortening is 
the first step in the process, and also the most important; the 
thorough beating of the mixture after the addition of all the in- 
gredients but the egg whites, and a short beating after the addition 
of the whites give a fine-grained cake. 

If pastry flour be not at hand, bread flour may be used in cake 
making by removing one level tablespoonful from each cupful of 
flour called for in the recipe. 




THE WHYS IN CAKE MAKING 



(1) Why should all the ingredients and utensils to he used he assembled be- 
fore beginning to mix a cake? 

Ans. For l)esl results the mixing of the batter should he a con- 
tinuous process, and it should be baked immediately after the 
addition of the flour and leavening agents. 

(•2) Why cream the Crisco first instead of creaming Crisco and sugar to- 
gether? 

Ans. It both saves time and is easier (requires less effort) to cream 
the shortening first and then gradually' cream the sugar into it. 

(3) In cold weather, wliy rinse tlie mixing bowl in warm water or leave the 
Crisro in the room a short time before trying to cream it? 

.Vns. Crisco, as all shortening, is put into a smooth, creamy con- 
dition most easily, when it is at about the temperature of the 
living r')om, or 0S° F. 

(4) For \^ hat reason do we use an earthen bowl and a, slitted wooden spoon 
for beating sugar into shortening? 

Ans. A metal bowl or spoon will discolor the sugar and shorten- 
ing; also a slitted spoon, by presenting more surface than a 
solid spoon, makes the work easier. 

(3) Why use pastry flour for cake? 

Ans. Cake is a luxury and should be of as delicate a texture as 
possible; the flour is used to hold together richer articles, and 
flour with little "body" or substance is desirable. 

(0) Why use Crisco as shortening in cake? 

Ans. Crisco gives a very white cake of the same texture as when 
butter is used, at half the expense. 

(7) Why use fine granulated sugar in cake mixtures? 

Ans. Fine granulate<l sugar makes the best cake; coarse granu- 
lated sugar gives a coar.se-grained cake; powdered sugar a 
dry cake. 

(8) Why beat the yolks and whites of eggs for cake separately? 

Ans. Whites and yolks of eggs may be beaten lighter if beaten 
separately. A cake should be light that the digestive juices 
may penetrate it readily. 

(9) Why beat a cake mixture (lightened with, baking powder or cream of 
tartar and soda) after the addition of the stiff-beaten egg whites? 

45 



Ans. If Llie egg whites were folded into a shortened cake mixture, 
the cake would, in spots, be too porous and dry; beaten in 
thoroughly the finished product is uniformly fine-grained and 
tender throughout. Beating is the last motion given to a 
shortened cake mixture. 

(10) Why should no motion but th;it of folding be used in combining a sponge 
cake mixture after the sugar is beaten into the yolks.' 

Ans. A proper sponge cake is lightened entirely by the air beaten 
into the eggs and the expansion of that air in baking. By 
folding in the flour and stiff-beaten whites of eggs the air 
beaten into the eggs is not lost; by stirring the mixture the 
delicate air cells are broken down and the cake will be heavy. 

(n) Why should the heat of the oven be moderate when the cake mixture is 
set into it? 

Ans. The heat of the oven should be moderate at first that there 
be time for the formalioTi of llie bidjbles of gas which are to 
lighten it. If the oven be too hot, the outside is cooked before 
the gas is fully evolved; then, when the gas is formed, it 
breaks out at the weakest spot, or, if the oven be very hot, the 
cake will be heavy, ha^-ing baked before it has had time to rise 
to its full height. 

(12) Why does a cake batter in baking sometitaes ri.se high in the middle, 
crack open and run out."' 

Ans. Usually the above condition is occasioned by too hot an oven 
at first. The heat browns and crusts over the top of the cake 
before it has penetrated to the center; later on when the heat 
reaches the center the bubbles of gas formed will burst out al 
the weakest point. 

(13) When is stronger heat needed: after the cake is risen, at the beginning of 
the baking, or at the last of the baking? 

Ans. Strong heat is needed after the cake has risen to make the 
cell walls firm enough to stand up. In the first cjuarter of the 
time of baking the cake should rise to its full height; in the 
second cjuarter, it should brown over in spots; in the third 
cjuarter, brown all over, and in the last quarter, dry ofT and 
settle in the pan. As the baking is practically done before 
the last quarter is reached, the heat may be gradually lessened 
during this period. 

(11) Why is it that it is not advisable to move a cake in the oven during the 
second and third quarters of baking? 

46 



Ans. When a cake has risen to its full height and the cell walls 
have not become fixed by heat, the jar of moving will cause 
them to fall, or settle; and as the leavening agents have done 
their work no more gas can be evolved to send up the cake 
and couse(juently it will be heavy. 



(15) 



\Yliy should the 
ill the oven? 
Ans. If the oven 




CREAMED CRISCO 



(10) 

Ans 



oven door be opened and shut with care while a cake is 

door be (slammed) shut hard, the jar might 
cause the cake to fall. The oven door 
may be opened a reasonable num- 
ber of times during the 
baking of a cake, if 
it be opened and 
shut gently. In 
• ^ all ovens ex- 
cept the elec- 
tric, the heat of the oven 
must be regulated by open- 
ing the door often and noting 
the appearance of the cake. 
^"hy is a cake when baked sometimes crisp, rough and uneven on the edges? 
A cake in which all the ingredients are properly propor- 
tioned is smooth on the edges, the opposite condition is usually 
due to too much sugar or shortening, or too little flour. There 
must be flour enough to combine with all the sugar and short- 
ening used, otherwise the excess in sugar and shortening will 
be found cooked together on the edges. 
(17) Why is it of no use to add flavoring extracts to a cake mi.xture? 
Ans. The volatile extracts are dissipated in baking. (Jrated rind 
of an orange or lemon may be used in certain cakes; in other 
cakes add extracts to f rostings and fillings when they are cold 
and flavor the cake in this way. 

Why are cakes made with either yolks of eggs or molasses baked in a 
cooler oven than cakes with whites of eggs and sugar? 

Yolks of eggs contain a large proportion of fat; ))oth fat 
and molasses burn easily and the temperature of the oven 
must be regulated accordingly. 

Why wash down, with tips of fingers or cloth wet in cold water, the inside 
of the saucepan in which sugar and water are being cooked for boiled 
frosting? 

47 



(18) 

Ans. 
(19) 



Alls. Water is used on the inside of the saucepan to remove 
grains of sugar which if left would make the frosting "grainy," 
to obviate this still more, cover the saucepan while the sugar 
boils three or four minutes, to steam and melt any grains of 
sugar thrown up in cooking, then uncover and let boil undis- 
turbed to the right degree. 

120) Wli\ jiuL beat llie eggs for frosting or fur a t-ake mixture some time in 
advance of usc.^ 

Ans. AYhites of eggs, beaten stiff, will liquify on standing and can 
not again be beaten light; they will make neither satisfactory 
cake nor frosting. 

(21) Wliy not beat the whites of eggs for the cake, and then a little later use 
the egg beater without washing to tieat whites of eggs for frosting.' 

Ans. Whites of eggs — except on the rarest occasions — cannot be 
beaten light imless the egg beater be absolutely clean and dry. 

(22) Why should a pan in which cake containing shortening is to be baked- 
he lined with a strip of Criscoed paper the exact width of the pan and 
with ends hanging o\'er.^ 

Ans. The cake when baked and cooled sliglitl_\' may lie lifted in 
perfect shape from the pan ))y the ends of paper, also if the 
cake should be burned slightly on the bottom this portion 
may be removed with the paper to which it will adhere. A 
burned surface may also be removed from a cake with a lemon 
grater, after which the surface shoidd be brushed with a clean 
whisk broom kept for the jMirpose. 

(23) AYh\' ijake a sponge cake in an ungreased pan? 

Ans. A sponge cake properly made (without shortening) and 
baked will adhere to an ungreased surface, then when baked 
it may be turned upside down and the cell walls will be elon- 
gated while the cake hung from the bottom of the tins is drying 
out and cooling. 

(2-t) Why set some cooky and gingersnap mixtures aside to chill before rolling 
and cutting into shape.' 

Ans. Mixtures that are to be rolled may'be handled when mixed 
Cjuite soft with but little flour, if the mixture be first hardened 
by chilling. Directions or recipes for cookies, etc., say flour 
for a soft dough — the smaller the quantity of flour (as a 
general rule) the richer and better are cookies and gingersnaps. 
An expert can handle a softer dough than an amateur; by 
chilling the mixture, it stiffens and can be handled without 
the use of so much flour. 

48 




EMILY'S WHITE CAKE 

Yi cupful Crisco 1 teaspoonful salt 

\y2 cupfuls sugar 1 cupful water 

.'3 cupfuls flour 1 teaspoonful flavoring 

3 teaspoonfuls Ijaking powdtr whiles of 3 eggs 

Cream Crisco. Add sugar slowly and cream together. Sift dry ingredients 
and add alternately wilh the liquid. Add flavoring, beat mixture thoroughly 
and last fold in stiffly beaten wliites of eggs. Prepare layer-cake tins by greasing 
them witli a mixture of Crisco and flour. Pour in cake mixture; put in mod- 
erate oven, allow to rise for five minutes, increase heat to bake; at the end of 
fifteen minutes, reduce heat to allow cake to shrink from the pan. Entire 
time for baking twenty minutes. — Kutf IS. \'atigh)i. 

CHOCOLATE FROSTING 

1 cupful granulated sugar confectioner's sugar as 

1 cupful boiling water needed 

t! squares chocolate 1 teaspoonful vanilla extract 

Melt the sugar in the boiling water, cover and let boil three or four minutes, 
add the chocolate broken in pieces and let melt over boiling water, then beat 
in the sugar, sifted, and the extract. Use sugar to make the frosting of a 
consistency to spread and not run from the cake. If it becomes too stiff be- 
fore it is spread, adtl boiling water or syrup, a few drops at a time. 



THINGS TO REMEMBER IN CONNECTION WITH THESE RECIPES 

TN'ben cake is nut a success, it is not the fault ol' llie Criscn. EiLbcr tuo much was u,sed, the oven 
heat not perfectly controlled or some important ingredient was used in the wrong proportion. Crisco 
should be creamed with the .sugar more thoroughly than butter, as Crisco contains no moisture to 
dissolve the sugar. 




ATLANTICS 

1 egg yolk 1 teaspoonful soda 

yi cupful Crisco, melted 1 tablespoonfLd ginger 

J^ cupful molasses ,'/2 teaspoonful salt 

\4 cupful boiling water llA cupfuls sifted flour (about) 

FROSTING 

1 cupful sugar 12 fresh inarsbmallows 

■i tablespoontuls boiling water 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

1 egg white cocoanut if desired 

Beat the egg yolk and add it to the Crisco, molasses and water; sift the soda, 
ginger, saU and flour into the first ingredients and mix thoroughly; let chill in 
the refrigerator, then roll into a sheet and cut into rounds. Bake in a moderate 
oven. More (lour may be needed. The cakes should not spread in cooking 
but should be as soft as possible. For Uie frosting dissolve the sugar in the 
boiling water; with the tips of the fingers, wet repeatedly in cold water, wash 
down the sides of the pan, cover and let the syrup boil three minutes, uncover 
and let boil until when, tested in cold water, a soft ball may be formed. With 
a thermometer cook to S.'SS" or 3-10° I'\ Pour thesyrup in a fine stream on the 
white of egg beaten dry, beating constantly meanwhile. When all the syrup 
has been added to the egg, add the marshmallows, beat with a spoon until 
melted, then beat with an egg beater until very light, adding the vanilla 
meanwhile, then spread on the top of the cakes. Cocoanut may be added 
if desired. 

The recipes for Date Cookies and Gingersaap.s, also illustrated, cau be 
found on page 58. 



50 




JELLY ROLL 



2 eggs, beaten light 

1 cupful granulated sugar 

grated rind 1 lemon 

J3 cupful hot water 

1 tablespoonful Crisco 



1 cupful flour 

'^14 teaspiionfuls baking powder 

]i teaspoonful salt 

currant jelly 

confectioner's sugar 



Gradually beat the sugar into the eggs, add the grated rind, the Crisco melted 
in the hot water and the flour sifted with the baking powder and salt. Heat 
all together thoroughly and turn into a shallow pan lined with a well-Criscoed 
paper. Bake about eighteen minutes, turn at once onto a clean cloth, trim 
off the crisp edges on the four sides, spread with jelly and roll over and over, 
keeping the cloth between the fingers and the cake. Roll the roll of cake in the 
cloth. When ready to serve, sift confectioner's sugar over the top of the cake. 



51 




ORANGE GOLD CAKE 



yi cupful Crisco 
l'^ cupful sugar 
4 egg yolks 
grated rind 1 orange 
3^ teaspoonful salt 
3'4 cupful milk 
1 cupful sifted flour 
Cream the Crisco; beat in the sugar, 



'■I teaspoonfuls baking powder 
FROSTING 

1 cupful sugar 

]4, cupful boiling water 

2 egg \\'hites 

Yi teaspoonful orange extract 
I'i teaspoonful almond extract 
tlic j'olks, beaten ligbt, tbe grated rind 



and salt, and, alternately, the milk and tlic flour sifted with the baking powder. 
Bake in a round Criscoed pan (seven inches in diameter) about twenty 
minutes. When the cake is cold, invert it and cover the surface with the 
frosting. Melt the sugar in the water, wash down the inside of the pan, cover 
and let cook three or four minutes, then uncover and let cook until a soft ball 
may be formed when the syrup is tested in cold water. Pour, in a fine stream, on 
the whites of eggs beaten very light, beating constantly meanwhile; continue 
to beat until cold, add the flavoring and use as above. 



52 



THINGS TO REMEMBER IN CONNECTION WITH THESE RECIPES 

When cake is not a success, it is not the fault of the Crisco. Either too much was used, the 
oven heat not perfectly controlled or some important ingredient was used in the wrong pro- 
portion. Crisco should be creamed with the sugar more thoroughly than butter, as Crisco 
contains no moisture to dissolve the sugar. 

RECIPES 

FUDGE CAKE 

/'2 Cupful Crisco 3 tablcspooufuls hot milk 

1 cupful granulated sugar yi cupful milk 

3 eggs, beaten light Yyi cupfuls flour 

-t ounces chocolate 3 teaspoonfuls baking powder 

3 tablespoonfuls sugar I2 teaspoonful cinnamon 

Cream the Crisco, gradually beat in the sugar, then the eggs, beaten light. 
Melt the chocolate over hot water; add the small measure of sugar and the hot 
milk and mi\ thoroughly, then beat into tlie first mixture; lastl,\' add, alter- 
nately, the milk and the flour sifted with the baking powder and cinnamon. 
Bake in two layers about eighteen minutes, or in a sheet about twenty-five 
minutes. Baked in la.yers, put soft filling between them, frosting on top. 

FROSTING FOR FUDGE CAKE 

2 cupfuls granulated sugar '' i cupful Ixiiling water 

3 tablespoonfuls luolasscs or 1 teaspoonful Crisco 
caramel syrup i egg whites 

Melt the sugar in the molasses and boiling water; w;ish down the saucepan, 
cover and let boil about four minutes; uncover, add the Crisco. and let boil to 
the "soft-ball" stage ('238° F.). I'our the syrup in a fine stream on the egg 
whites beaten very light, beating constantly meanwhile; pour the frosting into 
the saucepan in which the syrup was boiled, set it over a dull fire on an asbestos 
mat or over boiling water and stir and beat until it thickens perceptibly, then 
spread on the cake, leaving the surface rough. 

SOFT FILLING 

'2 cupfuls brown sugar '2 tablespoonfuls flour 

)2 cupful sweet milk '4 teaspoonful salt 

1 taljlespoonful Crisco I tablcspoonful vanilla 

Melt the sugar in the milk, and heat to the boiling point; cream the Crisco, beat 
in the flour and salt and dilute with a little of the hot syrup; stir until boiling 
then let simmer, stirring occasionally, ten minutes; add the vanilla, let cool a 
little and use. 

MOCHA CAKE 

>2 cupful Crisco 3 cupfuls flour 

lyi cupfuls sugar 4 teaspoonfuls baking powder 

3 eggs, beaten without 1 teaspoonful salt 

separating 1 cupful milk 

Cream the Crisco and beat in half the sugar; gradually beat the rest of the 
sugar into the beaten eggs and beat the two mixtures together. Sift together 
the flour, baking powder and salt and add to the egg-Crisco mixture, alter- 
nately, with the milk. Bake in three layers about eighteen minutes or in a 
large sheet about twenty-five minutes. Use mocha frosting between the layers 
and on top of the layer cakes, or over the bottom of the inverted sheet of cake. 
Sprinkle the frosting with one cupful of chopped pecan nut meats. 

53 

JJtie level iiieasiircmenii 
Jor nil inijredienis 



MOCHA FROSTING 

yi cupful Crisco about y'^ cupful very black 

IJ^ cupfuls sifted confectioner's coffee, or coffee extract 

sugar 2 squares melted chocolate, 

^/i teaspoouful salt if desired 

Cream the Crisco; beat in the sugar gradually; add the salt and beat in the 

coffee a few drops at a time, then the chocolate, if used. 

FRUIT AND NUT CAKE 

yi cupful Crisco 1 cupful milk 

1 cupful sugar 3 cupfuls flour 

1 cupful citron, raisins and 4 teaspoonfuls baking 

nuts, chopped fine powder 

3 eggs, beaten light yi teaspoonful salt 

Cream the Crisco; gradually beat in the sugar, then the fruit and nuts, the 
eggs, and, alternately, the milk and the flour sifted with the baking powder and 
salt. Bake in a pan 8x12 inches, lined with a Criscoed paper. Sift two table- 
spoonfuls of granulated sugar over the top of the cake before baking. 

LEMON CAKE 

\^ cupful Crisco yi cupful milk 

1 cupful sugar IJ^ cupfuls flour 

2 eggs, beaten light 3 teaspoonfuls baking powder 

J'2 teaspoonful salt 
Cream the Crisco; beat in the sugar and eggs, then, alternately, the milk and 
flour sifted with the baking powder and salt. Rake the cake in two layers; 
put the filling between the layers and sift confectioner's sugar over the top. 

FILLING 
1 egg, beaten light 1 cupful sugar 

1 lemon, grated rind and juice 2 tablespoonfuls Crisco 

Put all the ingredients into a double boiler; stir and cook until the mixture 
thickens. 

LEMON CITRON CAKE 

% cupful Crisco >2 teaspoonful salt 

IK cupfuls sugar 2 cupfuls flour 

2 egg yolks, beaten light 3 teaspoonfuls baking powder 
grated rind y-i lemon 3 egg whites, beaten dry 

yi cupful milk 2 ounces citron 

Cream the Criseo; beat half the sugar into the Crisco, the other half into the 
yolks, then beat the two together; add the lemon rind, and, alternately, 
the milk and the salt, flour, and baking powder sifted together; lastly, the 
whites of eggs. When putting the cake into the pan, add the citron here and 
there. Bake in a round tube pan about forty-five minutes, or in a biscuit 
pan about thirty minutes. 

OATMEAL MACAROONS 

1 egg, beaten light yi tablespoonful melted Crisco 

y^ cupful sugar yi teaspoonful salt (scant) 

\yi cupfuls rolled oats 
Beat the sugar into the egg; add the Crisco, salt and rolled oats and mix all 
together thoroughly. Shape in small rounds on a Criscoed baking sheet. 
Bake in a moderate oven. The recipe makes eighteen cakes. 

54 

Use level iiieasuremenla 
Jot all ingredients 



DENVER OR HIGH ALTITUDE CAKE 

y2 cupful Crisco less 1 table- 1 cupfuls pastry flour 

spoonful 3 teaspoonfuls baking 

1 cupful sugar powder 

1 2 cupful milk 3 egg whites, beaten dry 

Cream the Crisco and gradually beat in the sugar; add the flour sifted with the 
baking powder, alternately, with the milk, then the whites of eggs; beat vigor- 
ously and turn into three layer-cake pans. Bake about twenty minutes. Put 
the layers together and cover the outside of the cake with chocolate frosting. 
By using a boiled frosting (white) in which chopped raisins, nuts and figs are 
beaten, a good Lady Baltimore cake results. 

CHOCOLATE FROSTING 

'2 squares or ounces chocolate i egg whiles, beaten very 

I'l cupfuls granulated sugar liglit 

]2 cupful milk ],2 teaspoonful vanilla extract 

Melt the chocolate over hot water; add three tablespoonfuls, each, of the sugar 
and milk and stir and cook until smooth and boiling, then add the rest of the 
sugar and milk and cook until a little dropped into cold water may be gathered 
into a rather firm "soft-ball;" (240° F. at sea level, 2'20° F. high altitude on 
the sugar thermometer). Pour the syrup in a fine stream on the egg whites, 
beating constantly meanwhile; add the vanilla and use as soon as the frosting 
will remain in place. 

JELLY CAKE 

j-z cupful Crisco 2 cupfuls flour 

1J4 cupfuls sugar ili teaspoonfuls baking powder 

2 egg yolks, beaten light >2 teaspoonful salt 

]i cupful milk 1 egg w hite, beaten dry 

Cream the Crisco; beat in the sugar and the yolks, then, alternately, the milk 
and the flour sifted with the baking powder and salt, and, lastly, the white of 
egg: beat vigorously. Bake in two layer-cake pans aljout fifteen minutes. Put 
the layers together with fruit jelly and cover top and sides with 

CONFECTIONER'S EGG FROSTING 

To the left-over white of egg, add half a teaspoonful of orange extract and the 
juice of half a lemon or two tablespoonfuls of cream (water may be used) and 
stir in sifted confectioner's sugar to make a frosting that will not run from 
the cake. 

FAVORITE HIGH ALTITUDE CAKE 

yi cupful Crisco 3 cupfuls pastry flour 

4 egg yolks, beaten light .S teaspoonfuls baking powder 

\yi cupfuls granulated sugar H teaspoonful salt 
^ cupful milk or water 4 egg wdiites, beaten very light 

Cream the Crisco; gradually beat half the sugar into the Crisco, and half into 
the beaten yolks, then beat the two mi.xtures together; add, alternately, the 
liquid and the flour sifted with the baking powder and salt, and, lastly, the 
whites of eggs. Bake in three layer-cake pans. Put the layers together with 
soft filling and sift confectioner's sugar over the top. This cake may also 
be made successfully at sea level; here it is close-grained but tender. Mocha 
frosting is particularly appropriate for frosting. 

53 

Use level jiieasureineuts 
fur all inyredients 



LORD BALTIMORE CAKE 

'j cupful Crisro ■ J^ cupful water 

1 cupful sugar 2 cupfuls flour 

3 egg yolks, beaten light 2 teaspoonfuls baking 
}i cupful milk powder 

3 egg whites, beaten dry 

Cream the Crisco; gradually beat in the sugar, the yolks, and, alternately, the 
milk and water with the Hour and baking powder sifted together; beat in the 
whites of the eggs; bake in three layer pans about eighteen minutes. Put the 
layers together and cover the outside witli the following frosting: 

FROSTING FOR LORD BALTIMORE CAKE 

\}4 cupfuls granulated ^ cupful nut meats, chopped 

sugar ^3 cupful candied cherries, cut 
>2 cupful boiling water fine 

2 egg whites, beaten dry }i teaspoonful vanilla extract 
li cupful macaroon crumbs yi teaspoonful orange extract 

Melt the sugar in the water; wash down the inside of the saucepan with the 
tips of the fingers wet repeatedly in cold water; cover and let cook about three 
minutes; uncover and c(}ok until soft ball may be formed in cold water (238 
F,). Pour in a fine stream on the egg whiles, beating constantly meanwhile; 
add the other ingredients and beat until the mixture will hold its shape. 

COCOANUT-AND-CHOCOLATE JUMBLES 

yi cupful Crisco 1 teaspoonful salt 

1 cupful sugar 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder 

2 tablcspoonfuls milk 1 cupfulcocoanut 

2 eggs, beaten light grated rind 1 lemon 

2J<^ cupfuls pastry flour 2 squares chocolate, melted 

}^ teaspoonful cinnamon 

Cream the Crisco and beat in the sugar, milk, eggs and flour sifted with the 
salt and baking powder. Divide the dough and add tlie cocoanut and lemon 
rind to one half, the chocolate and cinnamon to tlie other half. .-\dd flour as 
needed to make a dough that may be rolled into a sheet; cut out with a dough- 
nut cutter, dredge with sugar and bake. If preferred, oniit the lemon rind and 
use all the ingredients in one mixture; but cakes of t^\o colors are attractive. 

RIBBON CAKE 

1 cupful Crisco less 2 table- ili teaspoonfuls baking 

spoonfuls powder 

2>2 cupfuls sugar 1 cupful currants ) 

4 eggs 114 cupfuls raisins > chopped 
1 cupful milk ^4 pound citron ) 

4 cupfuls and 2 table- 2 teaspoonfuls molasses 

spoonfuls flour 

Cream the Crisco; beat in the sugar, the eggs beaten ^\itliout separating the 
\\hites and \olks, and, alteriialel^v , the milk and flour sifted \\ith the baking 
powder. Bake two thirds of the mixture in two layer-cake pans; to the other 
third add the fruit and molasses and bake in a p.an of same size and shape as 
those used for the other two layers. Use the layer with fruit for the middle layer 
of the cake; put the layers together with fruit-jelly and cover the top with icing. 

56 

Uife level measurements 
fr,T all itujrc'ltents 



NEWPORT CAKE 

Js cupful Crisco 1 '2 uiipfiils sifted powiJerod 

i/4 ciipfuls sifted pastry flour sugar 

1 tcaspoonful baking powder grated rind 1 lemon or 

J^ teaspoonful salt ^ orange 

5 egg yolks 5 egg wliites, beaten dry 

1 tablespoonful milk 
Cream the Criseo; gradually beat into it the flour, sifted again with the baking 
powder and salt. Beat the yolks until thick and lemon-colored, then gradually 
beat the sugar into them. Gradually beat the yolks and sugar with grated 
rind into the Crisco and Hour mixture. Lastly, beat in the whites of eggs and 
the milk. l$ake in a loaf one hour; in a sheet, about forty-fivp minutes. The 
heat of the oven should be moderate, especially at first. The cake is very fine- 
grained, tender and delicate, (^ovpr with any white frosting flavored with half 
a teaspoonful. each, of orange and lemon extract. 

GALA CAKE 

J.-2 cupful Crisco -t leaspoonfuls baking 

3 whole eggs, beaten light powder 

1 cupful sugar }4 teaspoonful salt 
3 cupfuls fiour 1 cupful milk 

Cream the Crisco; gradually beat half the sugar into the Crisco and half into 
the eggs (do not separate the eggs), then beat the two mixtures together. 
Sift together the flour, baking powder and salt and add to the first mixture, 
alternately, with the milk. I?ake in a well-Crlscoed pan, 11x8 inches, about 
half an hour. Invert the cake on a wire cooler and when nearly cold spread 
the bottom (top when in\erted) with 

GALA FROSTING 
i tablespoonfuls molasses J 2 (upful boiling water 

2 cujjfids granulated sugar 5 egg A\hitcs, beaten stiff 

32 teaspoonful vanilla extract 
Stir the molasses, sugar and water until the sugar is dissolved; with the tips 
of the fingers, wet repeatedly in cold water, wash down the inside of the 
saucepan; cover and let boil three or four minutes; uncover and let boll until 
a little of the syrup may be gathered into a soft ball when tested in cold 
water, or to 2'5S° F. on the sugar thermometer; turn in a fine stream on the 
egg whites, beating constantly meanwhile. Return the frosting to the fire 
over boiling water or on an asbestos mat and Ix'at constantly until It thickens 
a little, then spread over the cake, leaving the surface rough. 

SPICED GINGER LAYER CAKE 

}-'3 cupful Crisco Jj teaspoonful salt (scant) 

^ cupful sugar 1 teaspoiinful cinnamon 

}4 cupful molasses 1 teasyjoonful ginger 

1 cupful sour milk (thick) fruit jelly 

1^4 cupfuls pastry flour 1 cupful cream, whipped 

1 teaspoonful soda 2 tablespoonfuls sugar 

lieal the Crisco to a cream and gradually beat in the sugar and molasses. Sift 
together the flour, soda, salt, cinnamon and ginger and add to the first 
mixture alternately with the sour milk. Beat all together thoroughly. Bake 
in two layer-cake pans. I'ut the layers together with jelly between, and spread 
the cream whipped and mixed with the sugar on top. Chopped nuts may be 
si)rinkled over the cream. 

57 

I'nc level mca.f iiremCHU 
Jar all imjrcclients 



ROXBURY NUT CAKES 

}4 cupful Crisco 1 teaspoonful cinnamon 

y^ cupful sugar }4 teaspoonful cloves 

2 egg yolks 1 teaspoonful soda 

5-2 cupful molasses 2 egg whites, beaten very 

yi cupful thick sour milk liglit 

1/^ cupfuls pastry flour 1 cupful nut meats, chopped 

Cream the Crisco and beat in the sugar, yolks, molasses and sour milk; beat in 
the dry ingredients sifted together, then the egg whites and nuts. Bake in 
eighteen sniall tins, frost or not as desired. 

DATE COOKIES 

}'2 cupful Crisco 3 cupfuls flour 

1 cupful sugar 3 teaspoonfuls baking 

1 egg, beaten light powder 

grated rind 1 lemon or orange }2 teaspoonful salt 

^2 cupful milk j^ l^ound dates 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar 
Cream the Crisco and gradually beat in the sugar, add the egg and grated 
rind. Sift together the flour, baking powder and salt and add to the first mix- 
ture,, alternately, with the milk. Chill the dough if convenient. More flour 
may be needed. The cookies should not spread in baking. Take the dough 
onto a floured board a little at a time, knead slightly, roll thin and cut in 
rounds. Lift half the rounds to a baking sheet, spread with the stoned dates 
cooked with the sugar and chopped, brush the edge with water, cover with the 
other half of the cakes, pressing the edges together closely, dredge with granu- 
lated sugar. Bake in a moderate oven. Figs or canned pineapple (grated) 
may be used in place of the dates. 

GINGERSNAPS 

1 cupful Crisco 1 tablespoonfid ginger 

1 cupful molasses }4 teaspoonful salt 

1 cupful brown sugar 1 teaspoonful soda 

1 Ggg. beaten light flour as needed 

Put the Crisco, molasses and sugar over the fire to melt the Crisco and sugar, 
then let boil about six minutes after boiling begins. When cooled somewdiat 
(lukewarm) add the egg, with the ginger, salt, soda, and three cupfuls of flour 
sifted together; stir to a dougli, adding flour as required. Knead on a board, 
roll into a thin sheet, cut into rounds and bake in a moderate oven. Let the 
first three ingredients boil until a little of the mixture dropped into cold water 
may be gathered into a soft ball. 

PLAIN CAKE 

>4 cupful Crisco )4 teaspoonful salt 

}i cupful sugar 2 teaspoonfuls baking 

2 eggs powder 

}4 cupful milk 1 teaspoonful cinnamon 

IjA cupfuls flour 3 tablespoonfuls sugar 

Beat the Crisco to a cream, then gradually beat in the sugar; add the eggs 
beaten light without separating the whites andiyolks. Sift together th« flour 
salt and baking powder and add to the first mixture, alternately, with the milk. 
Turn into a pan about 8x9 inches; mix the sugar and cinnamon and sift it 
over the top of the cake. Bake about eighteen.minutes. 

58 

Use level measurements 
for all ini/redicnls 



LADY BALTIMORE CAKE 

yi cupful Crisco 1)^ cupfuls flour 

"iyi cupfuls sugar 2 tcaspoonfuls baking powder 

?4 cupful water Ji teaspoonful salt 

4 egg whites, beaten stiti' 

Cream the Crisco; gradually beat in the sugar, alternating at the last with 
some of the water. Sift the dry ingredients and add, alternately, with the 
rest of the water; beat the mixture until smooth, add the whites of the eggs 
and beat thoroughly. Bake in three well-Criscoed layer-cake pans about 
eighteen minutes. Put the la\ers together and co\er the outside with the 
following frosting: 

FROSTING FOR LADY BALTIMORE CAKE 

3 cupfuls granulated sugar 1 cupful chopped nut meats 

1 cupful boiling A\ater 5 figs, cut in bits 

3 egg whites, beaten stiff J 2 teaspoonful vanilla extract 

1 cupful chopped raisins }i teaspoonful rose extract 

' _j teaspoonful lemon extract 

Melt the sugar in the water, cover and let boil until a soft ball may be formed 
in cold water; pour in a fine stream on the egg wdiites, beating constantly 
meanwhile; add the fruit, nuts and flavoring and beat untd cool enough to use. 

WHITE FIG CAKE 

yi cupful Crisco ,'4 teaspoonful salt 

1 cupful sugar 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder 

^4' cupful milk 4 egg \\hites 

Xyi cupfuls flour 6 Ggs 

3 tablespoonfuls sugar 

Beat the Crisco to a cream and gradually beat in the sugar; sift together the 
flour, salt and baking powder, and add to the Crisco mixture, alternately, with 
the milk; lastly, add the whites of eggs beaten very light and beat vigourosly. 
Bake in two small layer-cake pans about fifteen minutes. Cook five or six 
figs in boiling water until the figs are tender and the water well evaporated; 
chop fine, add three tablespoonfuls of sugar and stir until boiling, then use as 
a filling between the two layers. Mix a cupful and a half of sifted confec- 
tioner's sugar with a little boiling water (about three tablespoonfuls) and half 
a teaspoonful of orange extract and spread over the top of the cake. 

SOFT MOLASSES COOKIES 

1 cupful melted Crisco 1 egg, beaten light 

Ij^ cupfuls molasses 5 cupfuls flour 

1 cupful brown sugar 2 teaspoonfuls soda 

1 cupful thick sour milk 1 tablcspoonful ginger 

1 teaspoonful vinegar 1 tablcspoonful cinnamon 

1 teaspoonful salt 

Put the liquid ingredients into a bowl; sift the soda into the flour, add the salt 
and spices and sift all together into the liquid mixture. Keep the dough as 
soft as can be handled; roll ont, cut in thick cookies and bake in a quick oven. 
By chilling the mixture overnight less flour will be needed. 

59 

J]!^e lead mejuiiirnmenta 
Jot all int/rcdicRts 



Pastry is a stiff dough made with a large proportion of short- 
ening. Pastrj' should be light or flaky and friable rather than 
porous and soft. All varieties of pastry may be included under 
the terms plain and flaky pastry-. In plain pastry, the shortening 
is mixed evenly throughout the flour; in flaky pastry, either dough 
or plain pastry is combined with shortening in layers or flakes. 

The starch and shortening combined in pastry are an acknowl- 
edged source of muscular energy; and those who exercise freely in 
the open air will find no trouble in digesting well-made and w^ell- 
baked pastry. Good pastry, being tender and friable, is easily 
masticated; it is the half-cooked, liquid-soaked under crust of pies 
made by careless cooks that has brought pastry into disrepute. 
Fat makes a tender crust, and plentiful shortening is the first req- 
uisite for good pastry. Puff-paste in which equal weights of flour 
and shortening are used is more digestible than pastry with a 
scant proportion of fat and a large proportion of water. 

Pies are the form in which pastry is commonly most acceptable; 
with these it does not suffice to use the proper proportion of ingre- 
dients, and to combine them correctly much depends on the manner 
of putting the paste and filling together and the baking; there is 
moisture in all pie-fillings and, if the filling be left to stand on the 
lower paste before baking, or, if the oven be not hot enough to 

bake the lower 
paste before it 
becomes sat- 
urated with 
I moisture, a tough 
crust will result. The 
inference is obvious; 
avoid putting a pie to- 
gether until the upper 
crust has been rolled 
and made ready to set 
in place, and the oven 
has been heated to 
bake it. 

CUTTING CRISCO INTO FLOUR. (See Question No. 4) 









r 





-=«■ > 



CUSTARD PIE 

plaia pastry ;-2 teaspoonful salt 

4 eggs it}-2 cupfuls rich milk 

}i cupful sugar nutmeg 

Trim the sheet of paste to extend beyond the plate three-fourths an inch on 
all sides, roll over the paste to meet the edge of the plate. Flute this double 
fold of paste with the thumb and Gngcr and press each fluting down upou the 
edge of the plate. In setting the paste on the plate, press out all air from be- 
low. Beat the eggs, add tlic sugar and salt and beat again, add the milk, mix- 
thoroughly and turn into the prepared plate. Set to cook in a hot oven, low- 
ering the heat after a few minutes that the custard be not over cooked. When 
puffy and firm the pie is baked. Grate a little nutmeg over the top and chill 
Ijefore serving. For plain pastry see page 00. 



61 







STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE 



2J-^ cuptuls pastry flour 

5 teaspoonfuls baking powder 

^/i teaspoonful salt 

}i, cupful Crisco 

1 cupful milk (about) 



butter 

2 baskets strawberries 

'^yi cupfuls granulated sugar 

whipped cream 

sugar 



Sift together the flour, baking powder and salt; with two knives or the tips of 
the fingers \^ ork in the Crisco, then use milk as needed to niix to a soft 
dough. With a spoon spread the dough in two well-Criscoed cake pans. Bake 
about fifteen minutes. Turn one cake on a largo chop plate, .spread the bot- 
tom with butter, cover with strawberries mixed with the sugar, set the second 
cake above the berries, spread this with butter and the rest of the berries. 
Serve with or without cream. This recipe may be used for fresh raspberries, 
blackberries or peaches or tor canned apricots. To prepare the strawberries, 
hull wash and drain them. Leave a few choice berries whole, cut the rest in 
halves, mix with the sugar (more sugar may be needed), and let stand halt 
an hour or longer. Sift confectioner's sugar over the top of the finished cake 
and set the whole berries above in a svmmclrical order. 



62 



WHYS OF PASTRY 

(1) Why use pastry flour? 

Ans. Pastry flour absorl)s a comparatively small measure of 
water and thus is well adapted to pastry making. 

(2) Why use a small quantity of water? 

Ans. Fat and flour, the main ingredients in pastry, used alone 
make a crumhly mixture that cannot be handled; just enough 
water should be used to render the flour and shortening 
smooth and pliable. 

(,3) Why have the ingredients for pastry cold? 

Ans. Warm shortening aljsorbs the flour, forming a dense, mix- 
ture in which no air is entangled. ^Yitll cold shortening, air 
will separate the particles of fat and flour; cold rather than 
warm water will aid in keejiing in the air. The heat of the 
oven expands the air and makes the pastry light. 

(4) Why rut the shortening into the flour with two knives? 

Ans. The warmth of the fingers acts upon the jiastry in the same 
manner as warmth in the air and shortening; with two knives 
the work may be done in less time than with one. 

(5) Why does pastry "clean the bo\\r" \\hcii just the right fiuaijlit_>' of water 
has been added to the mixture? 

Ans. As the mixture is cut and turned over with the knife against 
the sides of the bowl, it will "clean tlie bowl" when just 
enough lif(uid has been added to lake up all the flour; if more 
liquid be added than the flour will absorb, tiie remedy is to cut 
a tablespoonful of shortening into three or four tablespoonfuls 
of flour and tlien cut enough of this into the first mixture 
to put the mass into a condition to clean, or "wipe out the 
bowl." 

(C) Why handle pastry lightly and as little as possible? 

Ans. In handling pastry (or turning it over), air escapes; also as 
the paste softens on exposure to the heat of the room, flour 
must be added for which no shortening has lieen taken and 
the loss of air and excess of flour will make the finished pastry 
tough and heavy. 

(7) Why not mix the shortening too thoroughly into the flour? 

Ans. The object is to incorporate air spaces that expansion of 
air when heated may make the pastry light. 

(8) Why is pastry sometimes grainy and crumbly? 

Ans. Pastry is grainy and crumbly either when the shortening 

63 



and flour are mixed togellier too thoroughly or too little water 
is used to make a smooth mixture, or for both these reasons. 

(9) AYhy rover pastry close and let stand some hours in a cool place before 
shaping and baking? 

Ans. By standing, the moisture acts on the gluten in the flour 
and brings out its elasticity rendering it easy to roll (or stretch) 
the paste into a thin sheet. Pastry is covered to exclude the 
air which would dry it upon the outside; it is kept in a cool 
place to keep the enclosed air cool. (See No. 3.) 

(10) Why roll pastry with a light rather than a firm and heavy motion.' 
Ans. Pastry is rolled with a light motion that the air may not be 

pressed from it. 

(11) Why be careful that pastry does not stick to the board? 

Ans. If pastry sticks to the board, it cari not be lifted and set up- 
on the utensil on which it is to be baked; it has to be put into 
shape again, which is objectionable. (See No. fi.) 

(12) Why note that the paste slips on the board? 

Ans. As long as the paste .slips on the board, it is not sticking to it; 
the moment it begins to adhere, it may be lifted on the sides 
of the forefingers and drawn to a place where there will be a 
sprinkling of flour between it and the board. 

(13) Wh;)' is the sprinkling of flour needed? 

.\ns. The pasle slicks lo Ihe board at the point where it is moist; 
if there be a little more floiu' on the board than the moisture 
will absorb, the paste may be rolled out without much han- 
dling. 

(14) Why use a "magic cover" in making pastry? 

Ans. A soft paste is less likely to stick to a "magic cover" than to 
any other surface. A magic cover is a square of duck used in 
place of a board and a firm stockinet cover that is drawn over 
the rolling pin. 

(lo) Why is some pastry tough? 

Ans. If pastry is to be tender or "short," plenty of fat must be 
tised; flotu' and Avater make a tough niixtiu'C; a tender paste is 
not possible unless shortening ecjual to half the weight of the 
flour be used. 

(16) Why, in putting a pie together, l)rush over the edge of the lower trust 
with cold water? 

Alls. The cold water causes the edges of the two crusts to adhere 
and make a close joint to keep in the fliling. 

6-1 




(17) ^^hy pt'rt'orute the upprr f-rust? 

Ans. The upper crust is perforated to provide an exit for tlie 
steam from the cooking tilling; if no opening l)e ])ro\-ided, the 
steam would burst out at the weakest place, usually at the 
edge where the two jiieces of pastry come together; "iiol only 
steam, but filling will escape. 

(18) Why have 
the paste for 
apiclicloose- 
1_\' over the 
plate and 
again loosely 
over the fill- 
ing? 

Ans. Past ry 
shrinks in 
cooking 
and if it is 
to enclose 
and keep in 
the filling, 

allowance magic cover. (See Question No. 14) 

must be made for this shrinkage. 

(19) Why does pastry shrink.^ 

Ans. In flour, as in all organic substances, water is in composi- 
tion ; the water in flour is changed to steam which is dri\'en off 
in baking; this loss of water reduces the size of the finished 
product. A cake or a loaf of bread, as well as pastry, shrinks 
from the sides of the pan, when done. Shrinkage is a test by 
which the extent of cooking may be determined. 

(20) ^^hy bake the pastry for some pies, as lemon, before [)iitting in llie tilling? 

Ans. By baking the pastry before the filling is put in jjlace, it 
may be baked thoroughly and a liquid-soaked crust be avoided. 

(21) Why bake the .shell or under crust of pies on the outside of the pan? 

Ans. Pastry baked on the inverted pan in which it is to be set 
gives the right shape for the pan. 

(22) AVhy is this method of baking pies not in more general use? 

Ans. When well-cooked, a pic tastes better when filling and pastry 
are baked together; nor is tlie method adapted to all kinds of 
pies. Some plates, as glassware, heat so quickly that with a 
very little care no pie baked in them should be served with 
other than a digestible lower crust. 

C.5 



(23) Why set pastry to bake in a hot oven? 

Ans. A pie is set to cook in a hot oven that the under crust may 
be baked before it becomes soaked with Uquid from the filling. 

('24) If pastry be properly made, why should it be heavy in case it be a little 
under baked? 

Ans. The walls of the air cells must be thoroughly stiffened by 
the heat of the oven, — in other words the pastry must be thor- 
oughly baked — or when removed from the heat (the oven) the 
cell walls will collapse and form a heavy mass. 

(25) Why does fruit run out of a pie in baking? 

Ans. Sometimes the perforations in the upper crust become 
clogged with filling or the edges cook together and steam can- 
not escape through them; sometimes the pie cooks so fast that 
more steam is formed than can escape through the openings 
and new openings are made at the weakest places. (See also 
No. 17.) 

(2C) Why is pastry considered indigestible? 

Ans. Pastry that is not properly made and baked is apt to be 
heavy and dense and the digestive fluids cannot penetrate it 
easily. Good pastry, eaten occasionally, by people in health, 
is noL Ic) be considered indigestible. 

(27) Whj' is Crisco a good shortening for pastry? 

Ans. As Crisco melts at a lower degree of temperature than that 
of the human body and is also a pure vegetable fat, it is com- 
paratively easy of digestion. Also, being practically tasteless, 
the flavors of the fruit or other delicate products combined 
with the pastry are not lost. 

(28) Wh^' not eat pastry at the end of a hearty meal? 

Ans. Too large a quantity of fat cannot be readily and perfectly 
digested. It is more hygienic to close a meal in which, for in- 
stance, a fat roast of meat, rich sauces and vegetables, dressed 
with butter, are served with a light sweet, lacking in fat. 

RECIPES 
PLAIN PASTRY 

IJ^ cupfuls flour 4 to 6 tablespoonfuls 

1 teaspoonful salt cold water 

J'2 cupful Crisco 

Sift flour and salt and cut Crisco into flour with knife until finely divided. 

Finger tips may be used to finish blending materials. Add gradually sufficient 

66 

Use level measurements 
fur all inijredients 



water to make stiff paste. Water should he added sparingly and mixed willi 
knife tliroiigli ilry inyieilients. Form liglitly and fpiickly into dough, roll out 
on slightly floured board, about one-quarter inch thick. Use light motion in 
handling rolling pin and roll from c-entcr outward. Sufficient for one small pie. 

FLAKY PASTRY 

•i cupfuls pastry flour Ji cupful Crisco 

'2 teaspoonful salt J j cupful (or more) cold water 

,'; teaspoonful baking 3 or 4 level tablespoonfuls 

powder Crisco, creamed 

T setheaboveingredients, e.xcept thecreamed Crisco, asin making plain pastry; 
roll the pastry into a thin rectangular sheet; on^ half of the paste set part 
of the creamed Crisco in small bits equally distant one from another; fold the 
other half of the paste over the Crisco, put the rest of the Crisco on half of 
this surface in the same manner as before and again fold half of the paste 
over the Crisco; pat the paste with the pin, then roll into a long strip, fold the 
strip three times to make three layers of paste; turn the paste halfway round, 
that it may not be rolled in the same direction as before, and roll into a thin 
sheet. The rolling and folding may be repeated three or four times if desired. 
This paste is used for tarts, little pies and the upper crust of larger pies. 

RHUBARB PIE 

1 cupful chopped rhubarb 1 cracker, rolled into crumbs 

1 egg. beaten light 1 tablespoonful Crisco 

1 cupful sugar J4 teaspoonful salt 

Mix all the ingredients together; bake between two crusts. Use a rather 

small pie plate. 

BUTTERSCOTCH PIE 

^'2 recipe for flaky pastry 5 tablespoonfuls Crisco 

3 tablespoonfuls corn- 1 cupful brown sugar 

starch ii egg yolks 

J 4 teaspoonful salt MERINGUE 

32 cupful cold milk 2 egg wliites 

1 cupful milk, scaldeil ^4 cupful granulated sugar 

Bake the pastry rolleil as for pie crust on the outside of an inverted pie pan. 
Prick the paste all over and set the pie pan on a tin sheet to keep the edge 
from contact with the oven. A\'hcn baked set inside a clean pie plate, turn in 
the cooked filling, cover with the meringue and let bake about ten nnnules. 
'i'o make the filling, cook the cornstarch and salt mixed with the cold milk in 
the hot milk fifteen minutes; add the Crisco and sugar stirred and cooked 
over the fire until the sugar is dissolved and bubbly; add the yolks. For the 
meringue beat the whites, very light, and gradually beat in the sugar. 

ENGLISH APPLE PIE 

}4 recipe flaky pastry J2 teaspoonful salt 

apples grating of nutmeg or lemon rind 

f^ cupful sugar 2 teaspoonfuls Crisco 

2 to 3 tablespoonfuls water 

Rub over the inside of a deep pic plate with Crisco and slice pared apples into 

it to fill rather high; .sprinkle on the sugar, salt and nutmeg, add the Crisco in 

67 

U-sp. levpl nirdxiirrmciils 
fur III! hnjrnlinils 



liits here and there and pour on the water. Roll the paste into a round to fit 
the plate. Cut .slits in the paste and spread it over the apple, pressing it on 
the edge of the dish. Bake about forty minutes. Serve with or without cream. 

BERRY PIE 

RECIPE FOR PLAIN PASTRY 

2 tablespoonfuls Crisco 1 tablespoonful flour 

1 generous pint berries yi teaspoonful salt 

1 cupful sugar 

Line the plate with part of the plain pastry, letting it emerge 14, inch be- 
yond the plate; roll the rest of the pastry into a thin sheet, spread one half 
w ith one tablespoonful of the Crisco and fold the other half of the paste over the 
Crisco; spread the other tablespoonful of Crisco over half of this paste and fold 
to cover the shortening; pat and roll into a long strip; fold three times and 
roll to fit the lower paste; make a few slits in the center. Turn the berries 
and other ingredients into the pastry-lined pliite, brush the edge with cold 
water, set the second piece of paste in place, pressing the edges close together; 
set to bake in an oven hot on the bottom; bake about half an hour. 

NEW ENGLAND CREAM TART PIE 

2 cupfuls dry-apple sauce sugar as desired 

2 cnpfuls cream J2 teaspoonful salt 

.3 egg yolks, well beaten 3 egg whites, beaten dry 

^2 a nutmeg, grated J3 cupful granulated sugar 

Spitzenberg apples are considered the best for this pie, but other tart apples 
may be used. Press the apples, cooked with as little Avatcr as possible, through 
a sieve; add the cream and stir into the yolks, mixed with the nutmeg, salt and 
sugar; about one cupful of sugar is plenty. Ha\'e ready a pastry shell baked 
over an inverted pie plate; set the shell inside the plate, pour in the filling and 
set into a moderate oven to cook the filling. Beat the sugar into the beaten egg 
whites and spread over the pie, cooled somewhat, and return to the oven to 
cook the meringue. It should take from ten to fifteen minutes. The filling 
may also be baked in a pastry-lined plate as is aisquash or custard pie. 

PRUNE PIE 

Use plain pastry for the under crust; roll the rest of the pastry into a sheet; 
add bits of Crisco, here and there, to cover one half the paste and fold to cov- 
er the Crisco; add more Crisco in bits and fold to cover it; past and roll into a 
sheet, fold to make three layers and roll to fit the plate for the upper crust 
of the pie. 

FILLING FOR PRUNE PIE 

J^ pound cooked prunes, stoned prune juice as needed 

1 cupful sugar 1 tablespoonful Crisco 
juice of half lemon in bits 

2 tablespoonfuls flour yi teaspoonful salt 

Put the prunes into the pastry-lined plate; add the other ingredient.s — two 
tablespoonfuls of orange marmalade may replace the lemon juice — and brush 
the edge of the paste with cold water; set the upper paste in place, trim as 
needed and brush the edges together with cold water; bake about half an hour. 

68 

JJ se, leiel iiieustirt^menls 
for all inijredients 



OPEN CRANBERRY PIE OR CRANBERRY TART 

Spread a round of flaky paste o\-er an inverted pie plate, piiek the paste \\\[]i 
a fork, here and there, over the sides as well as the top. Hake until done. 
Remove the paste from the plate, wash the plate and set the pastry inside. 
Turn a eooked tillinp: into the pastry shell and set figures, cut from pastry and 
baked, above the filling. 

COOKED CRANBERRY FILLING 

2 level tablespoonfuls 1 cupful boiling water 

cornstarch '4 cupful molasses 

^2 teaspooiiful salt (scant) ] teaspo^)nful Crisco 

1 cupful sugar 2 cupfuls chopped cranberries 

Sift together the cornstarch, salt and sugar, pour on the boiling water and 
stir until boiling; add the other ingredients anfl let simmer fifteen minutes. 
Apple, peach or pineapple marmalade make good fillings for a pastry shell 
baked on an inverted plate. Heat the marmalade and turn at once into a 
shell. 

CANNED PINEAPPLE FILLING 

To a pint can of grated pineapple add half a cupful of sugar an<l the juice of 
half a lemon; let simmer until thick, then use as above. 

APPLE PIE 

pastry 1 to 2 teaspoonfuls Crisco 

4 to apples grating of nntnug 

'4 tcaspoonful salt 2 to .i tablespoonfuls cold 
;'4 to 1 c\ipful sugar water 

Use either plain or flaky pastry, or use plain pastry for the lower and flaky pas- 
try for the upper crusts. Take half the paste to be used onto the cloth-covered 
board, dredge lightly with flour and knead slightly; roll into a round to fit the 
plate, trim as nee<led to ha\'e nearly one-fourth an inch of paste beyond the 
edge entirely around the plate. Slice the apples Into the plate; mix the salt 
and sugar and spread over tlie apples and put on the Crisco in bits, here and 
there; add the nutmeg and water; brush over the edge of the paste with cold 
water and set the second round of paste above the apple, letting it lie a little 
loose; press the edges of paste together and trim if needed. Bake about half an 
hour. After the pie has been in the oven five or six minutes the paste should 
have risen somewhat. Cut several slits in the upper crust before setting it in 
place. 

SQUASH PIE 

yi cupful Crisco 34' teaspoonful salt 

^4 cupfuls sugar >2 teaspoonful cinnamon 

2 eggs or 1>4 cupful strained squash 
1 egg and 2 crackers rolled 1 cupful milk 

fine /4 cupful cream 

Cream the Crisco and beat the eggs, add half the sugar to the Cri.=eo, the other 
half of the eggs and combine the two; add the other ingredients and mix again. 
Bake in a plate lined as for a custard pie, 

69 

Use level meanuremcnis 
Jut all imjrcdtciii-'i 



CHICKEN PIE 

1 chicken cut in pieces iyi teaspoonfuls baking powder 

and cooked J4 teaspoonful salt 

salt and pepper to -3 cupful Crisco 

season ,'j cupful cold water (some flours 

2J^ cupfuls pastry flour take up more water than others) 

,'4 cupful Crisco 
Set the hot clilcken in a baking dish, sprinkle on salt and pepper, pour on the 
broth to nearly cover the ehickeu. Have ready the pastry, set it above the 
chicken, letting the edge rest on the dish. Bake about half an hour. For the 
pastry sift together the flour, baking powder and salt; with two knives work 
in the two-thirds cupful of Crisco, then gradually add the water and work to a 
paste. Knead the paste slighth- on a floured board, roll into a rectangular 
sheet, spread one half with Crisco, told the other half of the paste over the 
Crisco and fold as before; roll into a sheet, fold three times, then roll to fit 
the dish, trim the paste as needed; cut figures from these trimmings, brush 
the under side with cold water and set on the largo piece of pastry. 

EASY CHICKEN PATTIES 

Cut flaky pastr,\", rolled into a thin sheet, into rounds to fit small tins; press 
them on inverted tins and prick \\itli a fork to let out air beneath; set the 
pastry-covered tins on a tin sheet and let bake ten or twelve minutes. Cut 
out rounds for covers; decorate with small figures, cut from the paste and 
brush underneath with cold water to make them adhere. Chill and bake. 
Remove the paste from the tins, fill with two cupfuls of cubes of cooked chicken 
stirred into two cupfuls of cream sauce and set the covers above. Serve at once. 

CREAM SAUCE 

^4 cupful Crisco '4 teaspoonful pepper 

34 cupful flour '2 cupfuls milk, or for patties: 

'4 teaspoonful salt 1 cupful milk and 1 cupful chicken broth 

Melt the Crisco; in it cook the flour and seasoning; add the liquid and stir 

constantly until boiling. 

CHOU PASTE 

CREAM CAKES 

}^ cupful Crisco 1 cupful pastry flour 

1 cupful boiling water y eggs 

FILLING 

2 cupfuls milk 2 eggs 

}4 cupful flour -'4 Cupful sugar 

}i teaspoonful salt 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

Put the Crisco o\'er the fire in the water; when again boiling, sift in the flour 
and stir and cook until the mixture leaves the sides of the pan a smooth 
paste; turn into an earthen bowl and laeat in the eggs one at a time; beat in 
each egg thoroughl;)' before the jie.xt is added.; drop onto a baking sheet in 
irregular rounds about three inches in diameter. Bake in an oven with strong 
heat on the bottom about 2.5 minutes. When done the cakes will feel light, 
taken in the hand; when cool, open on one side and insert the filling. To make 
the filling, stir a little of the milk with the flour and salt to make a thin paste; 
cook this in the rest of the milk scalded over, hot water, stirring constantly 
until the mixture thickens; let cook fifteen minutes; beat the eggs; add the 
sugar, and beat again; then stir into the hot mixture; stir and cook until the 
egg is cooked; let cool, then add the vanilla and use. 

70 

L se level measurements 
for nil nujredienta 




CORN BREAD 



K cupful Crisco 

yi cupful sugar 

3 egg yolks 

1,^4 cupfuls sweet milk 

'i- egg 



7'S cupful corn meal 
2 cupfuls sifted pastry flour 
.5 tcaspoonfuls baking powder 
I teaspoonful salt 
vliites, beaten drv 



Cream the Crisco, lieat in the sugar, then the yolks, beaten light. Sift to- 
gether the corn meal. Hour, baking powder and salt, add to the first mixture 
alternately with the milk, then beat in the whites of eggs. Bake in a well- 
Criscoed pan about twenty-five minutes. 



71 




COFFEE CAKE 



1 cake compressed yeast 
^4 cupful lukewarm water 
1 cupful scalded and cooled 
about 1,H cupfuls flour 
^4 teaspoonful salt 
3 4 cupful sugar 

cupful melted Crisco 



1 egg, beaten light 
flour for soft dough 

(about three cupfuls) 
egg white 

?i tablespoonfuls sugar 
1 tablespoonful cinnamon 
,'4 cupful sliced almonds 



Mix the yeast with the water; add to the milk with flour for the sponge and 
beat until smooth; cover and let become liglit; add the salt, sugar, melted 
Crisco, egg and flour as needed. Beat until smooth, cover and set aside to 
become doubled in bulk; cut down and spread i'ii a pan rubbed o\'er witli 
Crisco, AVhen again light brush the lop of llie cake with egg white, dredge 
with the sugar and cinnamon and sprinkle on the. nuts. Bake about twenty- 
five minutes. I'se a pan about 10 x 8 inches. 

Recipe for Philadelphia Butter Buns (herewith illustrated] on page 81. 



72 



Four of the simplest ingredients in the cuhnary hiboratory, flour, 
salt, li(|uitl and yeast, enter into the composition of a loaf of bread; 
yet the changes tiirougli which tiiese materials pass before a finished 
loaf is e\olvetl are the most coni])licated in all cookery. All the 
foodstuffs are found in bread, which if well maile has high nutritive 
value. The liquid used in bread may be milk or water or a portion 
of each; milk increases the nutritive value of the loaf. The protein 
in flour is in the form of gluten, and while elasticity is a property 
of all proteins, the gluten in wheat ])ossesses this property in marked 
degree. This strong elastic gluten makes a good framework to re- 
tain the air and carbon dio.xide and renders wheat the ideal grain for 
bread making. The protein in oats and corn are deficient in this 
property and when used in bread making are combined with wlieat. 

Wheat and flour vary greatly in the quantity of gluten present 
even the same variety of wheat will vary fnnn season to season. 
.\lso, in ojnnection with the kintl of wheat, the time of planting 
affects the quantity and quality of the gluten. Spring wheat sown 
in the spring and harvested the same season contains more protein 
and, consequently, more gluten than winter wlieat sown in the fall 
and harvested in the early part of the next sununer. Flour from 
spring wheat, rich in gluten, is well adapted to bread making and 
is known as bread flour; if is creamy in color, granular to the touch 
and passes through a sieve easily; a slight jar sends it through. Flour 
from winter wheat is whiter in color and soft to the touch ; if a quan- 

impress of the 

for what it 

,,; starch. It 

cake 

Ih ill 

M 



tity be crushed in the hand it will retain the 

lines in the hand. It tastes sweet, 

lacks in gluten is made up in 

is adapted to the making of 

and ])astry articles, foods 

which delicacy rather i,,, 

thanstrengthissouglit. ."^i^;. 

Such flour is known 

as pastry flour. 

73 





WHYS OF BREAD MAKING 

(1) Why use bread flour in all yeast mixtures? 

Ans. It costs less to use bread flour for yeast mixtures than it 
does to use pastry flour; less flour is required. In making bread, 
flour is added to liquid to make a dough stift' enough to knead; 
the liquid will take up a smaller measure of bread flour than of 
pastry flour. Bread flour contains a higher percentage of pro- 
tein (gluten) than does pastry flour; it is an advantage to 
get considerable protein from bread. Gluten also has the 
property of elasticity and by its stretching makes a tough 
framework to hold up the cellular structure of the loaf. 

(2) Why use milk in mixing bread.' 

Ans. The bread is more nutritious when milk is used, milk being 
a protein or tissue builder. The spongy texture is preferred 
by some. 

(.'3) Why use water in mixing bread? 

Ans. Water is cheaper; the bread keeps moist longer than when 
milk is used; the texture of the bread is preferred by some. 

(4) Wli_)' uot soften yeast in (boiling) hot water? 

Ans. Boiling water poured over a sprouting seed or young plant 
would destroy its life; the vitality of a yeast cake, which is a 
collection of plants massed together, would be destroyed just 
as certainly if it be mixed with boiling water. Yeast plants 
bear cold better than heat and may be kept alive some days 
in a refrigerator. 

(.5) Why soften a yeast cake in a small measure of liquid? 

Ans. A yeast cake may be mixed thoroughly through a small 
measure of liquid; if added directly to the full measure of 
liquid to be used, it often fails of being distributed evenly 
through the dough. 

(C) Whj- add flour to liquid rather than liquid to flour? 

Ans. The measure of liquid decides the number and size of the 
loaves; the measure of flour largely decides the texture of the 
loaf. One cupful of liquid makes a loaf of bread for a brick- 
loaf pan of ordinary size. 

(7) Why mix bread dough in an earthen bowl? 

Ans. An earthen bowl holds warmth longer than a metal recep- 
tacle. Also from metal receptacles the knife used in mixing 
would be liable to scrape metal into the dough. 

74 



(8) Why mix bread dough with a l<uife? 

Ans. A dough is too heavy for heating;; it is mixed by beiiiR 
turned over and over and by cutting down througli it; for such 
motions a knife — not too flexible — is the implement most 
easily used. 

(9) Is it better to mix bread at night? 

Ans. Bread mixed at night is ready to shape into loaves the first 
thing in the morning and may be baked immediately after 
breakfast. B>--products of fermentation, which give a charac- 
teristic sweetness to bread, are generated during the long 
process. The cost of yeast is less, because one yeast cake will 
make six loaves of bread or its equivalent in bread and biscuit. 

(10) Why mix in the morning? 

Ans. The d(jugh may l.)e walched and kept m good condition. 

(11) Why knead bread dough:-' 

Ans. Bread dough is kneaded the first time to distribute the in- 
gredients evenly through the mass, to gi\'e body to the dough, 
to Ijring out the elasticity of the gluten in the flour and to 
make the mixture smooth. The second kneading is to break 
up the large cavities caused by gas bubbles, and to make the 
texture uniform and fine. 

(12) Why use .shortening (Criseo) in breaiK-' 

Ans. Shortening makes tender bread. 

(13) Why shape the dough for briek-hjaf pan in two rounds? 

Ans. A loaf of bread baked ui Uvo rounds gi\es slices of a nearly 
uniform size. If doubt is felt as to the degree of baking, the 
loaf may be split apart at the center and the condition noted; 
if iiroperly baked, the crumb will rebound under pressure. 

(14) Why bake bread in small loaves? 

Ans. Bread is baked in small loaves that it may be baked through 
to the very center of the loaf. In aismall loaf the proportion 
of crust to crumb is greater than in a large loaf. 

(15) Why is a large proportion of crust desiraljle? 

Ans. On account of the higher degree (dry heat) to whicli the 
crust is subjected, the starch in composition is changed to dex- 
trin which is more easily digested than starch. Some (probably 
most) of the starch in the crust has been changed by the dry 
heat (moisture keeps the heat down at the center of the loaf) to 

75 



dextrin (,dcxtriii is soluble in waLer, starch is not), and is thus 
partially digested. Many people do not digest starch readily. 
The crust would correspond to toast. In toast, the moisture is 
first dried out slowly, then the bread is put over strong heat 
which changes the starch on the surface to dextrin that is more 
easily digested. 

(10) Why bake bread thoroughly.^ 

Ans. Bread is baked to kill the yeast plants, which have served 
their purpose, to drive off the alcohol and carlion dioxide gas, 
and to harden the cell walls. It should also l^e well baked to 
insure its keeping in good condition. 

(17) ^^ hy IS yeast used in breaJ making'.'^ 

.Vns. Yeast is used in bread making to make the liread light and 
porous and thus easily masticated; and to allow the digestive 
fluids to penetrate it readily. 

(18) Why does yea,5t make brea<l ligiit.^ 

Ans. Commercial yeast is a collection of yeast plants in a state 
of rest; provide them with moisture. Warmth and the food they 
like (j)resent in flour), tlie plant will grow and multiply. As 
the plant feed they cause the sugar in composition to be 
broken up and bubbles of gas and alcohol are formed; the 
sticky gkiten of the flour holds the bubbles and causes the 
mass to swell, or rise. 

(19) What is tlic differeiu-e ljet\Yeeii a quick, medium, or slow oven, and the 
effects of same.^ 

Ans. Heat indicators set into oven doors of some cooking ranges 
are a guide to the heat of the oven and of great help in baking. 
They do not register heat in degrees. With the hand on the 
dial at hi o'clock tlie heat is right for cake in small tins, laj'ers 
or thin loaves, pies, bread, etc. Wifli the hand at any point 
before 12 o'clock the heat is moderate to slow according to 
the distance from 1'2 o'clock. ^Vith the hand at a point be- 
yond 12 o'clock, the oven is hot or very hot according to the 
distance beyond that point. 

With a thermometer, bread, pies and plain cake should be 
set to bake at 380° F., or when a bit of wliite paper dropped 
into the oven will become a delicate brown in five minutes, 
for biscuits, muffins, or small cakes, the pa[)er should become 
a deep golden brown in five minutes. AVith the oven in this 
latter condition, the thermometer would register 410° F. 

76 



(,■20) 'Why not hurry bread ami mils in llic smnnl ri.sin;;? 
Ans. l^he shapes gi\'cn Ui lircad and nills are rctaiiu'd more ])er- 
feetly if the rishig' l)e natural and nnii'ornu 

[il) Why wash ami ( 'risi-n llu- Imwl iii w liirli iIdiimIi fi>r mils las Parker Ilijusc) 
is sot to rise/ 

Alls. If the liowl be thus treated and l!ie dough \\lien well risen 
is not cut do« n or disturbetl in any \\ay- it may he turned up- 
side down on a lightly^floured hoard and rolled into a thin 
sheet with very few movements of the rolling' ])in, also when 
cut into rounds and folded, the rolls will hold their shaj^e with- 
out ""flying back." 

{^2^2) Why are Southern "heaten biseuit" e<insltlered a wholesome artiele of 
food."' 

Ans. lieaten biseuit are mixed \'ery stiff, but very liUle shortening 
or licjnid being used; they arc lightened by air that is beaten 
into them and when baked are dry. To be swallowed readily, 
they must be masticated for some time and this insures 
digestion. 

(i") Why are corn meal, rye meal or graham muffins bakeil in a hot iron muf- 
fin pan considered more whole.some than fhe same mixture baked Iti a 
sheet and cut in squares.-' 

Ans. The wliole surface of each muffin is crusty, and much of 
it has been changed by heat to dextrin, and this is the first 
step in digestion; also being crusty, the muffin is liable to be 
more thoroughly masticated than the softer ])rodnct baked in 
a sheet; this is further gain. 

(2i) Why ilo we use bakinf,' powder in muffins, biscuits, f;riddle cakes, waffles, 
cake, etc' 

Ans. Baking powder is used in flour mixtures to make tliem light; 
digestion is the first step in the change of food to produce body- 
substance or energy, and food that is light is easily penetrated 
by the digestive fluids. 

(25) Why does baking powder make certain foojls light? 

Ans. Baking powder is a mixture of an acid and an alkaline car- 
bonate (mixed with a starch to separate the two ingredients). 
Where these two are dissolved together a chemical action 
takes place and a gas is given off. Jf this action takes place 
in a moist flour mixture the mass is lightened thereby. 

(26J Why are sour milk and carbonate (jf S(j(Ja and acid molasses and soda 
not as satisfactory means of generating gas for lighleniug dough as bak- 
ing powder.^ 

77 



Alls. Buth sour milk and molasses vary so much in acidity from 
time to time that it is not easy to determine the quantity of 
soda to use; if too little is taken, gas enough to make the mix- 
ture light will not be evols^ed, and if too much is taken there 
will not be enough acid to neutralize it and the food will be 
yellow and unwholesome. 

RECIPES 
TWO LOAVES WHITE BREAD 

y^ cake compressed yeast 2 tablcspoonfuls Crisco 

(at night) 2 tablespoonfuls sugar 

yi cupful water 1 teaspoonful salt 

2 cupfuls scalded milk or lialf about 7 cupfuls flour 

milk and half water 
To the milk, or milk and water, add the Crisco, sugar and salt; when luke- 
warm, add the yeast mixed \^ith the half-cupful of liquid and the flour. Use an 
earthen bowl and mix with a knife to a dough. Knead until elastic. Let rise in 
a temperature of about 7j° F. The shelf over the stove is NOT a suitable 
place. AVhen doubled in bulk, shape into tw^o loaves. ^Yhen again light, bake 
about one hour, To mix in the morning, use one whole yeast cake. 

NOISETTE BREAD 

1 cake compressed yeast 2 tablespoonfuls molasses 
J4 cupful lukewarm water 1 cupful, or less, noisette or filbert 
1 cupful scalded milk meats, left whole 

1 tablespoonful Crisco J2 cupful white flour 

yi teaspoonful salt ,3 cupfuls (or more) whole-wheat 

flour 
Mi.\ the ycasi; with the water. To the milk add the Crisco, molasses, salt and 
nut meats and when lukewarm add the yeast and flour and mix to a dough. 
Knead until smooth and elastic. Let rise until doubled in bulk. Shape into a 
loaf. When again light bake one hour. Without the nuts this is good, plain, 
whole-wheat bread. To mix at night use one-third cake compressed yeast. 

QUICK YEAST ROLLS 

1 cupful scaided mdk 1 cake compressed 3'east 

li cupful Crisco y4 cupful lukev\arui water 

1 level tablespoonful sugar bread flour for soft dough 

}i teaspoonful salt (about 4 cupfuls) 

Add the Crisco, sugar and salt to the scalded milk; when lukewarm add the 
yeast mixed with the water and stir in the flour. Do not mix the dough stiff' 
enough to knead. Mix, cut and turn over and over with a knife; cover and 
set aside to become light. With Criscoed fingers pull off bits of the dough of 
the same size and work it into smooth balls. Set these some distance apart in 
Criscoed pans (that they may be crusty), and when again light bake about 
half an hour. 

78 

XJse lecel measurements 
for uli inijrfidienl^ 



RYE MEAL BREAD 

1 cake compressed yeast i tablespoonfuls Crisoo 

J2 cupful lukewarm water 1 tcaspoonful salt 

1'4 cupfuls sealilod milk I '2 cupfuls bread flour 

I; cupful molasses 1>2 eupfuls Graham flour 

1 cupful rye meal 
Soften yeast iu water. To milk add molasses, Crisco and salt. When luke- 
warm, add yeast mixed tbrough water. Stir in the flour and meal. Sift flour 
and meal first. Have dough quite stiff, but not enough to knead, (over and 
let stand until double in bulk. Cut down and turn into bread pan size of 
brick loaf. When again light, bake one hour. 

QUICK SALLY LUNN 

1 cake compressed yeast J; teaspoonful salt 

^4 cupful scalded and cooled milk 2 tablespoonfuls sugar 

1 cupful scalded milk 1 egg, beaten light 

2 tablespoonfuls Crisco ^.U cupfuls bread flour 

Mix the yeast with the one-fourth cupful of milk; add the Crisco, salt and sugar 
to the hot milk and when cooled to lukewarm add the milk and yeast, the egg 
and the flour. Beat until smooth and turn into-a Criscoed pan about tO .x 
•J '2 inches; let stand covered and out of drafts until nearly doubled in bulk; 
brush over the top with melted Crisco, dredge with granulated .sugar and bake 
about twenty-five minutes. Serve hot, or when cold cut in slices and toast. 

SQUASH BUNS 

}i cake compressed yeast J4 cupful melted Crisco 

^2 Cupful lukewarm water about three cupfuls bread flour 

3^ cupful scalded nnlk 1 tablcspoonful cornstarch 

.K cupful cooked squash 3 tablespoonfuls cold water 

^ cupful brown sugar J^ cupful or more boiling water 

}2 teaspoonful salt granulated sugar 

Soften yeast in water, add milk, squash, sugar, sail, Crisco and flour. Mix to 
a soft dough. Knead nearly ten minutes, using no more flour than necessary, 
set in a clean, Criscoed bowl. Cover and let stand overnight, when the mix- 
ture should have doubled in bulk. Turn upside down on a floured board. Roll 
into a sheet nearly an inch thick. Dip a cutter in flour and cut into rounds. 
Set close together in a baking pan, brushing the surfaces that come in contact 
with melted Crisco. ^Vhen very light (doubled in bulk) bake about half an 
hour. Mix the cornstarch with cold water, add the boiling water. Stir until 
boiling, let simmer untd the buns are baked. Brush with the starch, dredge 
with sugar, set into the oven until the sugar melts and glazes the buns. 

INDIVIDUAL CHICKEN PIES 

}4 cupful Crisco 1 cupful thin cream 

}4 cupful flour 1 cupful chicken broth 

}4 teaspoonful salt 2>2 eupfuls cooked chicken 

^'4 teaspoonful paprika in cubes 

Melt the Crisco; in it cook the flour and seasonings; add the cream and broth 
and stir until boiling; add the chicken and let become very hot. Turn into 
individual dishes, glass or crockery, set above the chicken in each dish three 
or four hot baking powder biscuit about an inch and a quarter in diameter. 
Serve at once. Cooked celery (in quarter-inch slices) may replace part of 
the chicken. 

79 

Use level vieiis}ircmenl.i 
for all mgredienln 



BAKING POWDER BISCUIT 

2 cupfuls pastry flour 1 teaspooiif ul salt 

3 teaspooiifuls baking 3 tabk'spounfuls C'risco 
powder about ij, cupful milk or water 

Sift tlic dry ingredients together twice and cut in tlie Criseo with two knives; 
add the milk gradually and nux to a dough that cleans the bowl. Turn the 
dough on a floured board, roll with a knife to poat with flour, knead slightly, 
then pat and roll into a sheet half an inch thick; cut in rounds, set in Criseoed 
tin and brush over the biscuits with melted Criseo; bake about fifteen minutes. 

POTATO BISCUIT 

1^2 cupfuls pastry flour 1 cupful mashed potato 

3 teaspooufuls baking powder J 4 cupful C'risco 

J--2 teaspoonful salt milk as needed 

Sift together the flour, baking powder and salt; add the potato pressed through 
a ricer. cut in the Criseo, then use milk, as needed, to mi.x to a dough that 
cleans the bowl. Turn on a floured board, with the knife, to coat with flour; 
knead slightly- then pat and roll into a sheet; cut in rounds and bake about 
fifteen minutes in a quick oven. 

NUT-AND-FRUIT ROLLS 

3 cupfuls pastry flour 1 tablespoonful softened 

5 teaspooufuls baking powder Criseo 

3^ teaspoonful salt 'j cupful dried currants 

'3 cupful Criseo ,'3 cupful nut meats, broken 

1 egg, beaten liglit in pieces 

}i cupful milk (nearly) 2 tablespoonfuls sugar 

1 teaspoonful cinnamon, it desired 
Sift together the dry iugedients, twice, and with two knives cut in the Criseo. 
.\dd part of the milk to the egg and use in mixing the dry ingredients to a 
dough that cleans the bowl. t se more of the mill;, as is reriuired. ^J^irn tile 
dough on a floured board, rt)II to coat lightly witli flour, knead and roll into a 
rectangular sheet one-third an inch thick. Spread with the softened Crksco 
sprinkle over the other ingredients and roll compactly as a jelly roll. Cut in 
pieces an inch and a half long; set on end close together in a Criseoed pan. 
Hake about twenty-five minutes. 

CHICKEN ROLY POLY 

2 cupfuls pastry flour l'< cupfuls chopped chicken 

3 teaspooufuls bak- '_' cupful chicken gravy or cream sauce 
ing powder '4 cupful Criseo 

32 teaspoonful salt ,'4 cupful flour 

J4 cupfid Criseo J2 teaspoonful salt 

1 egg, Ijcatcn light jX teaspoonful black pepper 

73 cupful milk (about) 2 cupfuls chicken broth 
Make a biscuit dough of the ingredients in the first column and roll into a 
rectangular sheet one-fourth an inch thick. Mix the chicken with the half 
cupful of sauce and spread over the dough. Roll compactly like a jelly roll and 
set into a baking pan; brush over with a little of the egg reserved for the pur- 
pose. Bake about twenty minutes. Serve, cut in pieces, with a sauce made 
of the Criseo, flour, seasonings and broth. Ham, lamb or veal may be used 
in the same way. 

80 

C^e Icrt'I inCQSurcmCHls 



PHILADELPHIA BUTTER BUNS 

1 cake fomprcssril yrasl 1 Icasixioiifu! sail 

,^4 ciipl'iil water i;ratoil riiHl*! lonioii 

,1 cui>ful si-al<leil milk ilour for dim^h 

I'l cupl'iils lii'i-ail Miuir .'i to -I lalilcspoonfids softened 

.'4 cupful ^rauulated sui^ar Crisco 

J4 eupl'nl ( fiscal, uieUet! -^4 cupful lirown sugar 

i egg yolks 1 tal>lespo(]uful cinnamon 

'j cupful currants or raisins 
"\[ake a spouse of tlie first four iuf^reilieuts; when liglit add tlie sugar, Crisco, 
egg yolks, salt, riml and Hour; about three cupfiils of Hour will be recpiireil. 
Knead until smooth and elastic. ('o\'cr close anil set aside to become (hudilcd 
in bidk. Turn upside down on a board, roll into a rectangular sheet, s|)riaii 
^^ith softened Crisco, dredge with one or two tablespooiifuls of (lie sugar and the 
cinnamon, then s|iriuklc with the fruit and roll as a jelly roll. Cut into pieces 
about an inch and a (piarter long. riie dough \\ill make sixteen buns. Ihil 
three tablespoonfnls of Crisco iul<i a [)an 7 by 10 inches, si)rinkle in the r<'st 
of the brown sugar; set the buns on the s\igar and let beeonic light. ISake in 
a moderate oven. Turn upside down. The sugar and Crisco should glaze the 
bottom of the buns. Serve with cutfee or cocoa. These are good reheated. 

QUICK NUT BREAD 

'2 cupfuls pastry flour .3 teas|)oonfuls baking powder 

1 cupful (iraliam flour 1 cupful chopped nut im-als 

1 teaspoouful salt 2 tablesj>oonfuls melted ('risco 

1 cupful sugar 1 egg, beaten light 

1 cupfid water 
Sift together the fir.st five ingredients; add the nuts, the Crisco and the egg 
mixed with the water and stir all together. Turp into a Criscoed bread pan 
anil let stand fifteen ndnutes. liake thrce-rpuirters of an luuir. 

APPLE DUMPLIN.G 

I'ill a pudding dish with pared, quartered and co('ed apples iiit in slices; pre- 
pare the dough as gi\en on page (i'i for strawbei-ry shortcake; sprinkle half a 
teaspoonful of salt ami one-fourth a cupful of hot water o\er the apples, then 
over them spread the dough. Let bake in a moderate oven about half an 
hour. Turn upside down on a serving dish and serve at once with butter 
and sugar or ma|)h- syrup. Sliced peaches make a good dumpling. 

CORN MEAL GRIDDLE CAKES 

1 cupful sweet milk ,'4 teaspoonful salt 

>2 cupful corn meal 1 tabh'spoonful sugar 

yi cupful white flour 1 egg. heaten light 

2^ teaspoonfuls baking powder 2 talilcspoonfuls melted 

Crisco 

At night scald the milk and pour over the corn meal; mix, cover and let stand 
overnight; sift together the rest of the dry ingredients and add to the meal 
with the egg and Crisco; mix and bake on a hot Cfiscoed griddle. When the 
cakes are fidl of bubbles, turn to brown the other side. More milk may be 
neeiled in the morning. 

81 

r^r Irrcl mn, ,:,„■„,, 
f.,r ull ni.jredmd. 



RICH GRAHAM MUFFINS 

yi cupful Crisco yi cupful thick, sour milk 

J'4 cupful sugar 1 cupful white flour 

2 eggs, beaU'u light 1 cupful Graham flour 

J4 teaspoonful soda 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder 

}4 teaspoonful salt 
Cream the Crisco; beat in the sugar and the eggs; sift the soda into the sour 
milk, mix tlioroughly and add to the first mixture; sift together the white 
flour, the Graham flour, baking powder and salt and stir into the liquid. Bake 
in a hot well-Criscoed muSnn pan about twenty-five minutes. 

WHITE MUFFINS 

2 cupfuls sifted pastry flour 1 egg, beaten light 

4 teaspoonfuls baking powder 1 cupful milk (about) 

i'i teaspoonful salt 4 tablespoonfuls Crisco 

}i cupful sugar, if desired (melted) 

Sift together the first four ingredients twice; add the milk to the beaten egg 
and stir into the dry ingredients; Ijeat in tiie Crisco. Bake in a hot, well- 
Criscoed cast-iron pan about twenty-five minutes. For a change, figs or dates 
cut in small pieces may be mixed through the dry ingredients before the liquid 
is added. 

MEAT PIE, BISCUIT CRUST 

Use remnants of roast beef, lamb or veal or broiled steak; remove all unedible 
portions from the meat, cover witli broth made from the bones and trimmings 
covered witli cold water, and a fe\v slices of onion, carrot, celery and parsley 
leaves, and let simmer until tender. Skim the meat (about a quart) into a 
baking dish; stir one-third a cupful of flour; three-fourths a teaspoonful of salt, 
halt a teaspoonful of pepper and half a cupful of cold water to a smooth paste, 
then add to tlie hot broth (three cupfuls) and stir until boiling; pour part of 
this sauce over the meat, reserve the rest to serve in a bowl. For the crust 
sift together three cupfuls of flour, five teaspoonfuls of baking powder and 
three-fourths a teaspoonful of salt, cut in one-third a cupful of Crisco, and mix 
to a dough with milk; knead slightly, roll into a shoot to fit the baking dish, 
which should be broad and shallow rather than deep; cut several slits in the 
lop and set il above the meat, resting on the edge of the dish, rubbed over 
with Crisco. Brush over the top of the crust with melted Crisco or beaten 
egg that it may bake to a rich brown. Hake about half an hour. For a higher 
flavored dish, add to the sauce, two tablespoonfuls of Worcestershire sauce, 
tomato or mushroom catsup or chili sauce. One-fourth a cupful of dried 
mushrooms, soaked in cold water, may also be added to the meat. 

SOFT CORN BREAD 

1 quart milk 2 teaspoonfuls Crisco 

1 cupful white corn meal 1 egg, beaten light 

1 teaspoonful salt 2 tablespoonfuls baking powder 

Scald the milk in a double boiler; when the milk is scalded and the water in 
the lower dish is boiling, gradually stir the corn'meal into the milk, continue to 
stir until the mixture thickens slightly, then cover and let cook, stirring occa- 
sionally for two hours; beat in the salt, Crisco, egg and baking powder and turn 
into a well-Criscoed baking dish suitable for the table. Bake about one hour. 
Serve hot from the dish. This is often called spoon corn bread, as it is soft 
and served with a spoon. Good for either luncheon or dinner. 



Use lecel measuremerUs 
for alt ingredients 



82 



HONEY COOKIES 

1^ cupful Crista* 1- triispoonfuls liaking powder 

y^ cupful granulntod sugiir 1 Ica^poonful sail 

J-2 cupful lioiK-y cluippccl almonds {about \i) 

grated rind 1 lemon 1 egg ivliilc and granulated 

1 egg and 1 yolk sugar (for glazing) 
3 cupfuls or more of flour 

Beat the Crisco to a eroam and gradually beat in the sugar and the honey, add 
the leuK^n rind, the Q'^\^ and yolk t)eaten together and the ihtur sifted with tin' 
baking powder and salt and mix to a dough that m:ay l)e kneaded. More flour 
may bo. required. Knead a portion of the ilough on a flourcil board, roll into a 
thin sheet and cut into rounds; rub over the baking pan \\ilh Crisco set the 
cookies in place, Ijrush them with the egg white reserved for the purpose and 
slightly beaten, then sprinkle with the chopped uuts, dredge with sugar and 
bake to an amber color. 

TEA SCONES 

2 cupfuls pastry flour 3 tablespoonfuls Crisco 
2 tablespoonfuls sugar 1 egg, -beaten light 

1 teaspoonful salt J2 to -3 cupfid milk 

■i teaspoonfuls baking powder sugar for dredging. 

Sift together the dry ingredients twice and work in the Crisco with two 
kniyes; add the half cupful of ndlk to the egg and gradually use in mixing a 
dough. Use more milk if needed. Turn on a flqurcd board, knead slightly, 
pat and roll into a sheet, cut into rounds, set in Oiscoed tin, brush o\'er with 
melted Crisco and dredge wdth sugar; bake about fifteen minutes. Serve with 
tea or cocoa. 

WHOLE-WHEAT MUFFINS 

1 cupful white flour -t teaspoonfuls Ijaking powder 

1 cupful entire-wheat flour 1 egg 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar 1'4 eujifuls milk 

K teaspoonful salt 3 tablcspoonfiils melted Crisco 

Sift together all the dry ingredients; add the well-beaten egg. ndlk and melted 
Oiseo. Beat thoroughly and Ijake about twenty-five minutes in a hot, Cris- 
coed iron mutfin-pan. 

RICE GRIDDLE CAKES 

yi cupful rice, washed 1 cupful flour 

1 teaspoonful salt 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder 

3 cupfuls boiling water K teaspoonful salt 

\]A cupfuls cooked rice 2 tablespoonfuls melted Crisco 

2 egg yolks, beaten light 2 egg whites, beaten light 

Add the salt to the boiling water and in it cook the rice till tender, then press 
through a potato ricer or sieve. To one cupful and-a half of this rice pulp, add 
the yolks and the dry ingredients and mix thoroughly, add the Crisco and 
whites, beat together and bake at once on a hot, well-Criscoed griddle. 

83 

ilsp Ici'fl niriisiin-ini' 
for all uiiirnlu-uL 



(1) Why does cooking make meat more palatable? 

Ans. Cooking meat sterilizes or destroys [)arasites or bacteria that 
may be present, coagulates albuminous juices, Uiereby improv- 
ing their appearance, makes tough tissues tender and brings 
out and accentuates agreeable flavor, 

(2) Why do the tough cuts of beef and mutton come from the neck and legs 
and the tender cuts from the middle of the b^ck? 

Ans. Exercise toughens muscles and connective tissues, thus mus- 
cles in those parts of the creature that are used constantly 
will be less tender than muscles protected somewhat from use. 

(3) Why is the nutritive value of tough meat as high, or even higher, than 
that of tender meat.^ 

Ans. The same exercise that toughens muscles draws the nutri- 
tive foodstuffs (juices) to them. 

(i) Why in boiling, parboiling, roasting and broiling meats do we first of all 
subject the entire surface to very strong heat? 

Ans. High heat will coagulate the albumin and harden the fibres 
on the surface of the meat and thus keep the nutriment with- 
in the meat. 



(5) 



Why, in making soup or broth, cut the meat into small pieces, cover these 
with cold water and heat the water verv slowlv? 



Ans. We present just as much surface as jjossible to the action of 
the cold water and let the water heat gradually that the 
juices in the meat may be drawn 
out into the water. 

(0) Why in making stews and 
pot roast do we cover 
the meat with cold 
water and bring it 
quickly to the boiling 
point, or, sear the 
meat on the outside 
with high heat and 
then add a little cold 
liquid and finish cook- 
ing at a gentle simmer? 

Ans. In stews and pot roasts 

84 




^Ye wish part of thr jiiirc Id rt'iiiaiii in tlic meat and part to he 
drawn out into tlie liquid and proeeed ai'eordin;j;ly. 

(7) ^N by should oven a woU-dono steak or roast presoiit a "puH'y" appoaranoo? 

Ans. ■■Puffiness" is a characteristic of meat that is not over cooked. 
If meat l>e suhjct-tod to a high tempera lure for loo long' a luue, 
the alliuminous juices are hardened and turned brown through- 
out the cut. After the surface of the meat is seared over, the 
heat must tie allowed to coagulate the juices only slightly and 
keep them jelly-like and the color a light pink. Lack of puffi- 
ness means bad cooking and hardening and shri\elling of nu- 
tritive matter. 

(S) Wliy in setting a steak to eook in a clouhle broiler have the edge of fat 
next the handle of the Iiroiler!^ 

Ans. With the fat toward the handle the meat is basted during 
cooking with the melting fttt. 

(9) AVhy tuTTi a steak caeh ten seconds for the first half of the cookin;,' ami 
then draw it fartlier from the heat and turn le.ss often? 

Ans. The steak is turned to sear and cook both sides evenly and 
to avoid burning; also if not turned ciuickly the heat would 
drive juices from the exposed surftice into the fire. It is not 
as essential to turn so often during the hist of the cooking. 
After the outside is seared over with strong heat to keep in the 
juices, the cooking is completed ;it a lower temperature that 
the meat mav be thoroughh' cooked and the juices within be 
jelly-like. 

(10) \A'hy ha\'e the pan at "i^lue" heat \\lien [jan-l)r<-ilinf^ steak or e]ioi>s.^ 
Ans. Higii heat is needed for the iuilitil setiring over, also meat 

will nfit stick to an extremely hot surface. The jjan must he 
kept hot ;ind the meat ttirned constantly. 

(11) Why ha\'e no fat in the pan when pan-broiling.^ 

Ans. If there be fat in the pun, the meat is not pan-broiled, 
but sauteed. 

(\-2) Why does it take a longer time to pan-lir"o1l a steak than to cook the 
same steak over a bed of eoals? 

Ans. Direct heat is more powerful than indirect lietit. 

(13) Why does il take longer to bri>il Hamburg steak than an ordinary steak 
of same thiekness.^ 

Ans. In an ordinary steak the lietit follows the little muscle tubes, 
btit in Htimburg steak it is deflected this w;iy ;ind that l)y con- 
nective tissue, chopped ;ind disposed irregularly. 

(14) Why set roasts of beef, mutton and poultry into a hot oven and roasts 
of lamb, veal and pork into a uujderately heated oven.^ 

85 



Ans. To be wholesome, pork and immature meat, as veal and lamb, 
need to be thoroughly cooked to the very center of the roast. 
If a heavy coating be formed on the outside, the heat cannot 
penetrate the joint; thus the loss of juice is preferal)le in the 
case of these meats to lack of thorounh cooking at the center. 

(15) Why set frosh meat to boil in hoilins water, ami ham and corneil beef 
(salted meats) to cook in cold water? 

Ans. The jtiices are to lie held « itliin the fresh meat, and some of 
the salt drawn out of the salt meats. The salt meats lose nu- 
triment both in pickling and cooking, but are valuable for 
variety and for emergencies. 

(IC) Why brown poidtry, chops, steaks, etc., I>cf<irc setting them to cook in a 
casserole? 

Alls. The meats are browned to intensify flavor, a sort of meat 
caramel flavor; cooked even in liquid, in a casserole with a 
close-fitting co^•er the flavor is retained. 

(17) AMiy baste roasts while cooking with hot fat rather than with fat and 
hot water? 

Ans. Roasts are ))asted to keep them from becoming too dry 
and also to send the heat into the meat. If hot water be added 
to the fat, moisture is produced and the flavor of the roast is 
changed. Reserve water for the joints with much connective 
tissue, Avhicli require long cooking and much moisture. After 
the joint is seared over, the temperature of the oven should be 
lowered. If the fat burns in the least, the oven is too hot for 
successful cooking. The fat dripping from the roast beef is, 
as a rule, all that is needed for basting, but poultry, veal and 
lamb require additional fat. 

(18) Why dredge a roast with flour after basting=with fat? 

Ans. The flotir combining with the hot fat gives a frothy, crusty 
appearance that is attractive to the eye. Also some of the 
flour browns in the pan, making a good foundation for a brown 
sauce to serve with the roast. 

(19) Why adapt the si^e of the pan to the roast and use a rack under the 
joint? 

Ans. If the pan be large, a correspondingly large cjuantity of fat 
must be used in basting or the pan will burn. If the meat be 
not lifted out of the fat, the portion in the fat will be fried in it 
and become o\er cooked. 

86 



('20) \\liy arc niolsluro and ])roUin{,'t'il codkinf,' at a gonllo heat t-ssoiilial in 
cooking longli nioal? 

Ans. The alljuniii)ous ]M-oteiiis arc to he coagulaLed (.slilfeiied) 
delicately as in tender meat, but the connective tissue, of which 
there is considerable (the quantity varying with the cut of 
meat, age, etc.), is to he changed to gelatine; dry heat and a 
high temperature will harden this tissne, bnt low heat, long 
continued in the presence of moisture, will transform it to gel- 
atine, and the little bundles of fibres will fall apart easily. 

('21) Why slioiihl tlie framework of roast meat aiid fowls Ije useii in making 
stock.^ 

Ans. The browned juices of meat found on the bones, gristle, fat, 
etc., are of most agreeable flavor and if: dissolved in water may 
be used to add flavor to foods deficient in this property, as 
rice, macaroni and many 'S'egetaliles. 

{■ii) Why is it important that meals, fish, fowl anitsonp stoek, ncjt to !)<■ eaten 
at ouee, should he cooled rapidly? 

Ans. This IS done as a precaution against ptomaine poisoning. 
Poisons are liable to develop in j)rotein substances that stand 
too long at a temperature neither hot nor cold. I'his is es- 
pecially to be giuirded against in hot weather and with meats 
slightly under done. 



RECIPES 
BEEFSTEAK CHOWDER 

1 poiiinl rounil steak 1 teasjjcunil ul .salt 

3 tablt'spounfuls Criscu ^ tea.spodiifiil [)e[)p(.'r 

1 onion 1^4 cupfuls tliiri cream or rich 

1 quart boilinj,' water milk scalded over hut water 

4 j>{)tatoes 

Cut the steak inttj strips an inch and a lialf \<>ng and half an iiuh Ihit^k and 
wide. Melt the Criseo; add the onion cut in very tliin slices, and stir and eouk 
until the onion is softened and ycllo\vcd. Add the boiling water, let sininier 
five minutes, add the pieces of steak; let boil five minutes, then siinmcr until 
the meat is tender. Pare the polaloes, cut in thin slic<'S, and let cook in 
boiling water five minutes; drain, rinse in cold water and drain a^^^ain, then 
add to the meat with the salt and pepper. Addniore water If needed to 
cover the potatoes. When the potatoes are tender, add the milk or cream 
and additional seasoning if necessary. Serve AA'ith crackers. Left-over steak 
may be used. 



87 



Use level nicuHiiremcnt? 
far all hmrcdicnifi 



JUGGED CHICKEN 

Separate a chicken into pieces at the joints. Take two or three tablespoonfuls 
of flour and half a teaspoonful, each, of salt and pepper; mix all together 
thoroughly; in this roll the pieces of chicken, after dipping theni in milk or 
water, then pack them solidly in an earthen baking pot; cover the whole with 
.sweet milk, then adjust the cover and let Ijake until the chicken is tender. 

SMOTHERED OR PAN CHICKEN 

Cut a cleaned chicken down the back and wipe inside and out with a cloth 
wrung repeatedly out of cold water. Hub the flesh over with salt and pepper 
and set in the inner pan of a double roasting pan; pour a cupful of hot milk 
or white stock into the pan, cover and set into a hot oven; cream three table- 
spoonfuls of Crisco, beat into this three tablespoonfuls of flour and spread over 
the hot chicken; let cook ten or fifteen minutes, then baste with the liquid in 
the pan; baste each fifteen minutes thereafter until the chicken is cooked; the 
time of cooking will vary according to the age of the chicken; from one to two 
hours will be needed. When the chicken is tender remove it to a serving dish, 
add milk or water in quantity as needed, and stir until the liquid boils. Pour 
this over the chicken and serve at once. 

BOILED HAM 

Let the ham soak several hours, or overnight, after scraping and scrubbing 
thoroughly with a brush. To eook, cover with cold water, bring slowly to the 
boiling point, let boil a few moments, then skim and let simmer five hours or 
more. When tender set aside to partially cool in the liquid, then remo\'e, 
draw off the skin, brush over with beaten yolk of egg, diluted with milk, 
sprinkle with sugar and cracker crumbs mixed together, and set in the oven 
to brown. Cover the bone with a paper frill. Garnish the dish with parsley. 
Also serve cold, sliced thin. 

SAUSAGES BAKED, WITH CREAMED POTATOES 

Chop fine four cold, boiled potatoes; season slightly with salt and dispose in an 
au gratin dish. Pour in milk or cream to come nearly to the top of the pota- 
toes. Prick the casings of one pound of sausage and lower them in a frying 
basket into a kettle of hot Crisco; count sixty, then remove and dispose over 
the potatoes. For a small frying kettle eook the sausage in two lots, half a 
pound at a time. Pour over the sausage a cupful of rather thick white sauce 
one made with chicken or veal broth preferred. Use two and one-half table- 
spoonfuls of flour and two tablespoonfuls of Crisco to the cupful of liquid 
Cover the sauce with three-fourths a cupful of cracker crums mixed with 
three tablespoonfuls of melted Crisco. Let bake about fifteen minutes. Serve 
for luncheon or supper. 

SPICED BEEF 

Have a piece cut from the round three inches thick; with a sharp knife make 
several incisions like the "sign of a<ldition" clear through the meat; into each 
of these press a slice of breakfast bacun; rub over the outside of the meat with 
salt, pe|)pcr and flour, set in an earthen dish and [)our on half a cu])ful of vine- 
gar, a tablespoonful of sugar, one-fourth a teaspoonful of mustard and a cup- 
ful of water heated to the boiling point; cover and let cook in the oven slowlv 
five or six hours, basting occasionally and adding water if needed. 

88 

C.fc Icvd measiiremerda 
for all ingrcdicnis 



CASSEROLE OF ROUND STEAK 

Cut round steak in pieces about two inelies sqiiiirc and let broivn in three or 
four tablespoonfuls Crisco melted in a t'l yiny pan. Remove to a casserole, and 
add broth to cover. .\dd more C'riseo to the pan and in it brown a small 
blanched onion for each service; add these to the casserole, cover and let cook 
about two hours or until nearly tender; adil, for each serxice, two small strips 
of carrot and half a dozen cubes or balls of potato, parboiled and browned in 
the frying pan, also salt and pepper as needeil, anil let cook imtil the \'egeta- 
bles are tender. If the beef be rolled in tlour, it will brown more quickly. 

CORNED BEEF HASH 

Cho|) tine an equal quantity of cold, corned beef a,nd boiled potatoes; stir in a 
little broth or boiling water and turn into three or four tablespoonfuls of Crisco 
melted in a frying pan; stir and cook until hot thfoughout, then let stand to 
color and crust slightly on the bottom; fold as an omelet. Turn ont(.) a hot 
serving dish. Serve at the same time radishes, sliced tomatoes, pickled beets, 
chili sauce or tomato catsup. 

ROAST SIRLOIN OF BEEF 

Wipe the meat with a daTup cloth. Dredge the fat with salt and flour, and the 
liesh with Hour, rubbing it well into the tlesh. Setto cook in a hot oven. The 
sirloin shown in the illustration is set skin side up, the way in which the roast 
will be sent to the table. To cook turn tlic under or tenderloin side upper- 
most, that the meat unprotected by fat may be seared over on the outside and 
the juices kept witliiii. After the roast is half cooked turn the fat side up and 
finish the cooking on this side, letting the fat bet-ome well browned. Haste 
each ten minutes with the fat in the pan, and dr'eiige with flour after each 
basting. The heat should be such that the fat and flour in the pan bo not 
over cooked; if too dark, the fat is not fit for basting, and the flour and meat 
juices are unsuitatjle for broxxn sauce to be served with the roast. Cook a 
roast about twel\"e minutes for each pound, ^^'hen done the meat should be 
pink at the center. 

BROWN SAUCE FOR ROAST BEEF 

When the meat is cooked, remove from the pan to the warming oven; it may 
be cut more easily after standing half an hour. Pour the fat from the pan. 
.\dd two cupfuls of boiling water to the browned flour in the pan and stir and 
let boil, that the water may take up the browned meat jniee adhering to the 
pan. Put one-fourth a cupful of the fut in a saucepan; add three tablespoon- 
fuls of flour and cook until frothy; let cool, add the liquid from the baking pan 
and stir until boiling, then strain and use. 

BROWN FRICASSEE OF VEAL 

Melt four tablespoonfuls of Crisco in an iron frying pan. Cut veal steak in 
pieces for serving; roll in flour anrl set to cook in the hot Crisco; when the 
veal is browned on one side, turn to brown the other side, then add light broth 
or water to cover and let cook at a gentle simmer about one hour. Stir one- 
fourth a cupful of flour (for each pint of liquid), half a teaspoonful of salt, and 
one-fourth a teaspoonful of pepper with cold water to form a smooth, thin 
paste; add to the meat, stir until boiling, and let simmer ten to fifteen minutes, 
when the dish is ready to serve. A little tomato puree is a good addition to 
the sauce. 

89 

Use level mcasnreinenls 
for all in[ircdicnis 



BEEF STEW 

4 tablespoonfuls Crisco 1 carrot 

i/i pounds "chuck" roast C potatoes, sliced 

3 peeled onions, in slices salt and pepper 

Melt the Crisco in the frying pan. Cut the meat into small pieces, and brown 
part of the pieces in the hot Crisco. Cover the rest of the meat with cold 
water and heat quickly to the boiling point; add the meat from the frying pan 
and turn some of the hot liquid into the pan; let it stand over the fire until 
the glaze is dissolved from the pan, then add to the meat. Cover and let sim- 
mer about three hours. Add the onions, and carrot, scrajjed and cut in slices, 
and let cook half an hour; then add the potatoes, pared, rinsed, parboiled and 
drained, and let cook until the potatoes are tender, when all should be cooked. 
Add salt and pepper as needed and the stew is ready. Two and a half pounds 
from the hind shank of beef, which is largely lean meat and bone, may also be 
used and costs less than the "chuck." 

BROILED TRIPE WITH BACON ROLLS 

Simmer fresh tripe in boiling water until very tender (it will take five or six 
hours of cooking), add salt during the last of the cooking. Drain and set 
aside in a covered dish until ready to use. Brush over the portion to be used 
(honeycombed tripe is considered the best) with partly melted Crisco, and set 
to cook over the coals or under the gas burner. Let cook three or four min- 
utes, then remove to a hot platter, season with a little salt, and spread over 
the top as many slices of broiled bacon as there are individuals to serve. Bacon 
rolls may replace the broiled bacon. To prepare these, run a toothpick through 
each slice of bacon, rolled up like a jelly roll, immerse all at once (in a basket) 
in hot deep Crisco. Let cook until crisp and a light amber color throughout, 
then drain, and use as specified. A quarter of a lemon should accompany 
each portion. 

BEEF BALLS WITH SPAGHETTI 

1 can tomatoes % cupful soft sifted bread 

1 green pepper, in shreds crumbs 

1 onion, in slices 1 teaspoonful grated onion 

2 branches parsley yi teaspoonful salt 

2 cupfuls water 3 tablespoonfuls Crisco 

1 teaspoonful salt j4 pound spaghetti 

1 pound steak, top of round }i ciipful grated Parmesan 

1 Q^g^ l^eaten light cheese 

Cook the tomatoes, green pepper, onion, parsley, water and salt half an hour, 
then press through a sieve into a casserole. I'\'ee the steak of all stringy por- 
tions and clio[) fine; add the egg, crumbs, oiiioir and salt and mix all together 
thoroughly; roll into a dozen balls of the same size. Heat the Crisco in a frying 
pan and in this cook the balls until well browned on all sides; drain on soft 
paper, then transfer to the puree in the casserole, cover and let cook al^out 
forty-five miuLites. In the meantime, cook half a pound of spaghetti, in \A"hole 
or half lengths, in boiling, salted water until done; drain and rinse in cold 
water. When about I'cady to serve, take the meat balls from the casserole, 
turn in the spaghetti and Parmesan cheese (grated); lift with two forks until 
the whole is well blended, then return the meat balls to the casserole, cover 
and return to the oven to become very hot. Serve from the casserole. 

90 

Use leuel measurements 
for till tiiijredienta 



SWISS STEAK 

Have a steak cut from the top of llie round one and a lialf inches thick. Pound 
it with the edge of a lieavy earthen plate (or a meat tenderer) until the fibre 
is thoroughly broken up. dredging over it meanwhile from time to time a little 
flour. By the time the steak is well pounded a generous half cup of flour will 
have been pounded into it. In a large iron frying pan heat two or three table- 
spoonfuls of t'risco; in this cook the meat until well browned, first on one side 
and then on the other; pour in boiling water barely to cover the meat and let 
simmer about three hours, h'or variety, cook two peeled onions, sliced thin, 
in the Crisco before the meat, remove them, and after the meat is browned 
spread them over the meat to cook with it. After the meat is cooked they 
may be retained in the sauce or strained from it asdesired. 

CORNED BEEF SOUFFLE 

23'2 eupfuls milk jl cupful soft sifted bread crumbs 

}2 cupful celery leaves }i teaspoonful paprika 

or stalks J4 teaspoonful salt 

j-i onion i eupfuls cold corned beef, 
2 tablespoonfuls Crisco ehoppe<l Gne 

2 tablespoonfuls flour 3 eggs, beaten separately 

Scald the milk with the celery and onion about Ijfteen minutes. Strain and 
cool a little. Cook the flour in the Crisco, add the milk and stir until smooth 
and boiling; add the crumbs, paprika, salt and beef, beat in the yolks, then 
"cut and fold" in the whites. Turn into a Criscoed dish, set into a pau of 
boiling water and let bake about twenty-five minutes. 

HAMBURG STEAK A LA TARTARE 

1 pound rump or round 1 tablespoonful Crisco, 

steak melted 

}i cupful cold Crisco }i teaspoonful salt 

}4 a green pepper 4 egg yolks 

1 slice onion \}4 cu*pfuls tomato sauce 

If round steak be used, let it be from the top of the round; scrape the pulp of the 
meat from the nerves and fibres, and with a wooden spoon work the Crisco 
into the pulp. Chop the onion and pepper very, fine and cook these in the 
melted Crisco until yellowed and softened; add these to the beef with the salt, 
mix thoroughly and roll into four balls; press the; balls into flat cakes with a 
depression in the center. Jlelt a teaspoonful of Crisco in an iron frying pan, 
set the meat in the pan and drop the uncooked yolk of an egg into each de- 
pression; baste the yolks with a little hot Crisco and set the frying pan into 
the oven; let cook about five minutes, remove to a hot serving dish, pour over 
the hot sauce and serve at once. 

TOMATO SAUCE 

3 tablespoonfuls Crisco j-i teaspoonful paprika 
3 tablespoonfuls flour 1 cupftd tomato puree 

i4 teaspoonful salt }4 cupful rich brown stock 

Melt the Crisco, in it cook the flour and seasonings, add the puree and stock 
and stir until boiling. 

91 

the level nwaaurciiiciiis 
Jot all inurfulicidn 



BEEFSTEAK BIRDS 

Have round steak cut very thin; pound it with ji pestle to reduce the thickness 
at least one-half; cut it into pieces about three inches square. Mix one cup- 
ful of soft, sifted bread crumbs with one-fourth a cupful of Crisco, a little salt 
pepper and sweet herbs and use to spread over the pieces of steak; roll each 
piece separately and tie with a bit of string at each end to hold in shape. Roll 
in flour and cook in a little hot Crisco until browned on all sides; add boiling 
broth or water to the fryinj; pan, cover and let cook until the meat is tender 
(about one hour). Serve with creamed or mashed potatoes. 

RECHAUFFE OF ROAST VEAL 

2 tablcspoonfuls Crisco 1 cupful veal gravy 

2 tablcspoonfuls chopped 1 tablespoonful tomato 

onion catsup 

8 slices tender cooked veal 
Heal the Crisco; in it cook the onion until yellowed and softened; add the 
gravy (made for the hoi roast) and the catsup and heat to the boiling point; 
lay in the slices of veal and let stand over boiling water until very hot. If the 
gravy has not been thickened, cook a tablespoonful of flour in the Crisco and 
onion before adding the gravy to them. 

ROAST LEG OF PORK 

Select a leg from a young pig. Scrub the skin with care. Then with a sharp 
knife score the skin for cutting in thin slices. Rub over the outside with salt 
and flour, and set to cook in a double or covered roasting pan in an oven of 
moderate heat. After a lime add halt a cupful or less of broth to the pan, if it 
is needed, and let cook about five hours. .'\s pork needs to be cooked very 
thoroughly, the outside should not be seared over at first by means of strong 
heat, lest the crust thus formed keep the heat from penetrating to the center 
of the joint. In a double baking pan no basting will be needed. In an open 
pan baste every ten minutes with the dripping in the pan. Pared-and-cored 
apples may be baked in the pan with the meat. These will probably require 
.ibout half an hour to bake. 

CROWN OF PORK WITH SMALL ONIONS 

Cut pieces containing six ribs from each side of a rack of pork, having the 
t^yo pieces of the same length and height; remove the backbone and make an 
incision betw'een the ribs; trim each ril> above the eye as for French lamb 
chops; turn the rib bones outside and the eyes of the chops inside and sew the 
two pieces together. Mix a cupful of sausage meat witli a cupful of stale 
bread crumbs, softened in cohl water and wrung dry; add additional seasonings, 
if needed. Put the crown in the baking pan, and the sausage mixture in the 
open space inside the crown; cover the bones with Criscoed paper, dredge 
with salt, pepper, and flour and bake in a slow oven between two and three 
hours, basting every ten minutes with the dripping to which a little hot water 
is added. Melt four tablcspoonfuls of Crisco, in it cook to a delicate brown 
enough small peeled onions to fill the crown; add stock and let cook until 
tender, glazing the onions with the stock as it cooks away. Remove the 
crown carefully to a serving dish, so as to a\oid breaking the sausage filling; 
place the onions in the center above the filling; cover the ends of the rib 
bones with paper frills, and garnish with a few sprigs of parsley. Serve wdth 
apple sauce and tomatoes in some form. 

92 

I'se level mens iire meats 
for all ingredients 



Food for energy is secured from the carl)oliydrates at less ex- 
pense than from the proteins: meat, tisli, etc., and with less tax on 
the digestive system. Negetahles, including cereals, belong to the 
carbohydrate group. One starch ^■egetable and one green vege- 
table should always lie gi\"cn a i)lace in the dinner at which meat 
or fish is served. The flavor of meat is agreeable, but, by using it 
in small quantity as a condiment, to flavor equally nutritious but 
cheaper vegetable food, we may satisfy physiological necessities 
and at the same time supjily the tlesired flavor and keep down living 
expenses. Noodles, macaroni, rice, honijiny, celery, peas, beans, 
cabbage and other vegetables, cooked with a little meat or fish or 
with simply meat or fish broth, are suitable and satisfying when 
presented as the substantial dish of the meal. Combined with 
cheese they become capable of suj)i)orting great physical activity. 

WHYS OF VEGETABLES 

(l) Why should a knowledge of llie roniposllion of \'cgetablcs be helpful to 
their proper cooking? 

Ans. The way in which vegetables are to )je treated dtiring cook- 
ing depends upon the kind and quantity of tlie various food- 
stufl's tliat enter into their make-ui). The cooking should be 
such as will most fully retain the compounds which make tlial 
particular vegetable \'aluable. 




93 



{•i) Wliy cook \t'geliil)h's? 

Alls. Ill general vegetables are cooked to make them more diges- 
tible (to cook the starch and soften the voody fibre). 

(3) AVhy are lettuce, cress, endive, ami the inner stalks of celery uncooked.^ 

Ans. Green vegetaliles are valued chiefly for flavor and min- 
eral salts; both would be lessened in cooking. Also the.se 
^-egetables are, or can be made, crisp and thus are easily mas- 
ticated. 

(4) Why shouhl these vegetables be washed and dried carefully.' 

.\ns. Tliey must be washed with great care to free them of earth 
and minute insects that may be present; they should be shaken 
dry for aesthelic reasons, also that <iil if used may adhere to 
them. 

(.5) Why set all vegetables to couk in boiling water.' 

.\ns. Vegetables are set to cook in boiling water, rather than in 
cold water, that the flavor and nutritive properties be retained. 

(fi) Should we always add salt to the boiling water.' 

Ans. Salt is used with most vegetables; it makes the water hard 
and raises the boiling jjoint, and both these things are an aid in 
keeping nutriment and flavor in vegetables; but as salt hard- 
ens fibre, its use must be avoided in vegetables containing 
much fibre. 

(7) Should we cook beets, tnrnl[>s, j>arsnips, (.-abbagc an<l salsify in salted 
water.' 

Ans. No: because they contain considerable cellulose (fibre). 
Season with salt just before they are done or sent to the table. 

(8) Why cook asj>aiagus, S])inach and green peas in a small <:|uantity of boil- 
ing salted A\ater.' 

Alls. They contain but little fibre; also salt will intensify the green 
color and improve the appearance ; the quantity of water should 
be small that the withdrawal of flavor and nutrients be limited, 
and the water should lie saved. The water clinging to the 
spinach after washing will suffice for its cooking. 

(9) Why not use soda in the water in which peas, siiinach and other green 
vegetables are cooking.' 

Ans. Soda softens the water, thus drawing out juice, flavor and 
color, and making vegetables tasteless and faded. 

(10) Why sometimes use a large quantity of water.' 

Ans. Cabbage and onions are strong-flavored, and will often be 
improved if the flavor be lessened. 

94 



I I 1 1 Wliy I'C 111(1 \o raliliagr ami luiioiis frmii llir rtalcr l.i-lnr.' I lic'\- lia\-r cullrr- 
1\' lost their ('rispnuss? 

Alls. C;il)bag<_' and onions arc usually t-ookt'd (oo long, liolli arc 
more easily digested and assimilated if eaten while a little nisj). 

(1'2) Why soak cirioil vegotablos in fuld walei- for some hoiir.s before cooking? 

Ans. Dried veijctables ha\e lost water I\v evaporation; this must 
be restored to lliein in some measure before they «'ill eook well. 

(l.'l) Why a<ld soila to the "aler in wliicli .jried peas anil beans are parboilecb'' 

Ans. The harel eelhdar structui'c of dried peas and beans may ]>v 
made tentler in soft water; if this be not at hand, a teasjjoonfid 
of .st)d:i may be added to the water (for a quart of beans) near 
the elose of the parboiling; thorough rinsing in a fresh supply 
of water is essential before the eonfinuation of the eooking. 

(14) 'W liy eook l.>eets « ilhout renio\ing the skins or breaking olf llie fine rools.' 
Ans. If the exterior of a beet be liroken, fltn-or, juice and color 
are withdrawn in eooking. 

(13) Why eook potatoes without paring them? 

Ans. The skin hel])S to retain some of the )iiitriti\'e properties of 
the potato. 

(16) Why pare potatoes before boiling? 

Ans. The ])otatt)es, if pareil, will be whiter and more ;ittraeti\(' in 
appearance. The loss of nutrients may be made good by olhcr 
articles of food, if the dietary l;)e not restricted. 

(IT) "Why bake potatoes (white and sweet), lieels and s(|iKish so infre(|iienl ly ? 

Ans. In Ijaking vegetables, all the ntitriti\-c ]jroi)erlies are retained, 
l)ut the time of cooking is lengthened and more heat is required. 

(18) \\\iy not steam vegetables more often? 

Ans. The nutritive properties tire retained in steaming, but llic 
flavor is not :is good as when the vegetables are baked, \\hile 
the tinte of cooking is about the same. 

(10) Why not allow the water in whieh potatoes arc eooking to boil rapidly? 
Ans. If the wtitcr boils r;q)idly, tlie outside crumbles before the 

center is cooked tender. 
(iO) Why ilrain the water from [lolatoes or oUkt vegetables as soon as Ihey 

are done? 

.\.ns. Liiless the water be drained at once from cooked vegetabh's, 

they become wtiter-soakcd and iin]);ilatable. 
(i\) Why sprinkle salt over eooked pcjfatoes as soon as they are draineil? 
An.s. Salt has ;in affinity for water and sprinkled on the hot 

potatoes draws to itself surplus water, nuiking the potato 

white and mealy. 

95 



(ii) Why blanch rice before cooking and macaroni afler cooking? 

Ans. By lettinfr rice, set over the fire in cold water, heat very 
quickly to the boiling point, boiling two minutes, and rinsing 
in cold water, the grains will be kept distinct while the cook- 
ing is completed, the starch on the outside having been washed 
away. Pieces of macaroni, set to cook in rapidly boiling 
water, and stirred occasionally will keep distinct, but, when 
tender they must be rinsed in cold waler or the starch upon 
the outside will cause them to adhere. 

(23) Why cook rice and macaroni in rapidly boiling salted water? 

Ans. If the water boils rapidly the rice and macaroni are kept in 
constant motion and will not adlipre to the bottom of the 
vessel. Salt is added for flavor and also to raise the boiling 
point of the water. Salted water does not boil until after it is 
heated above 212° F. In cooking starch, the higher the degree 
of heat the shorter the time requiredfor cooking. 

(24) Why, ill mashing [)otatoes, keep the saiuepan on the stove and have the 
milk hoi? 

Ans. To be at their best, mashed potatoes should be very hot and 
the flavor is impaired if reheated. 

(2.5) W'hy, in cooking cereals, sprinkle the cereal into rapidly boiling salted 
water, directly' over the fire? 

Ans. The salt is added for flavor; stirring in rapidly boiling water 
keeps the grains distinct and the mixture smooth. To lessen 
the liability of burning the cooking is completed over ))oiling 
water (double boiler), but as the temperature in the upper part 
of the boiler is below that of boiling water, more time will be 
required than if the cooking be carried out as it was begun. 

(20) Why should the cover be set ajar when potatoes arc cooked and left on 
the back of the stove to dry ott'? 

Ans. Steam rises from hot potatoes; if the cover be left ajar it 
escapes; otherwise the steam would condense on the cover and 
drop on the cooked potatoes, causing them to be water-soaked. 

RECIPES 
CANDIED YAMS 

Lay pared sweet potatoes or yams, cut in lialves, lengthwise in a casserole, 
sprinkle each layer, as it is set in place, with salt, paprika and brown or maple 
sugar or honey, dot with bits of (,'risco, and add a little cinnamon if desired; 
jiour in about half a cupful of boiling water, cover and let bake until tender; 
when about half baked, lift the potatoes next the bottom of the dish to the top 
of the dish. More water may be needed. 

90 

JJse Icrcl meusureineids 
fur all irnjrcdienls 



STUFFED POTATOES 

8 smooth regiilar-slKipoil po- ',4 cupful melted Crisco 

tatoes '1 teaspooiil'ul poultry 

1 cupful soft siftotl biead cruuibs seasouiuy 

}2 cupful tiue-ehojipoil cooked '4 teaspooiiful salt 

meats or nuts 1 to '2 tablespoonfuls milk 

Pare the potatoes, cut them iu halves, lengthwise, and cut out the centers to 
lea\"e a hollo\v space in ea»-h. Mix all the other ingredients together and use 
to fill the hollow spaces; |)ut corresponding halves together, fastening each 
with two wooden toothpicks. Set in a baking pan into a hot oven, baste each 
ten minutes with hot t'risco and let cock until tender, .Serve at luncheon or 
supper. 

ONIONS STUFFED WITH CELERY 

8 onions 1 cupful milk 

3 tablespoonfuls Cri.sco ^2 cupful celery liroth 

;! tablespoonfuls flour i cupfuls cooked celery 

,'1 teaspoonful salt J 2 cupful cracker crumbs 

J2 teaspoonful black pepper .'jf tablespoonfuls Crisco 

Peel the onions and let cook in boiling water until tender; cut out the centers 
to form tinn-walled cases. \\ liile tlie onions are cooking, melt the Cri.sfo; in 
it cook the flour and seasonings; add the milk and broth (liquid in which the 
celery was cooked) and stir until boiling; add the celery (cut before cooking 
in slices one-fourth an inch thick) and use to filkthe onions; mix the cracker 
crumbs with the Crisco and spread over the celery in the onions. Let cook in 
the oven until the crumbs are browned. Any of the creamed celery left over 
may be served around the onions. 

SQUASH AU GRATIN 

Cut a squash in halves, remove the seeds and stringy portions from such part 
of it as is required, wash and set to cook in a steamer. When done remove 
the pulp from the shell and press it through a ricer; add salt, pepper, and a 
generous piece of Crisco and beat well. Turn into a Criscoed dish; mi.\ two- 
thirds a cupful of cracker crumbs with one-fourth cupful of melted Crisco and 
spread over the squash. Set into a hot oven to brown the crumbs. For a 
heartier dish, sprinkle half a cupful of grated chee.se over the squash before 
adding the crumbs, 

BAKED MACARONI AND CHEESE 

I4 cupful macaroni in small pieces 1 tablespoonful Crisco 

] cupful grated cheese 1. tablespoonful flour 

}4 cupful melted Crisco 'j^ teaspoonful salt 

yi teaspoonful paijrika l«cupful ndlk 

Cook the macaroni in rapiilly-boiling salted water until tender; drain, rinse in 
cold water and drain again. Put the macaroni in a baking dish, add the cheese 
and Crisco and paprika; with two forks lift the macaroni repeatedly or until 
the ingredients are well mixed. Melt the tablespoonful of Crisco; in it cook 
the flour and salt, then add the milk and stir until boiling; then pour over 
the macaroni, sprinkle a little grated cheese over the top and set into the oven 
to melt the cheese and reheat the macaroni. 

97 

Use level measiircniciih 
for all innrciliLnits 



SPAGHETTI WITH TOMATOES 

i-'^ cupful spaghetti 1 tablespoonful sugar 

(broken in pieces) ji a green pepper (in shreds) 

yi can tomatoes 1 tablespoonful grated onion 

ji teaspoonful salt 2 tablespoonfuls Crisco 

yi cupful grated cheese 
Cook the spaghetti in rapidly-boiling salted water until tender; drain, rinse in 
cold water and drain again. Cook the tomatoes, salt, sugar, pepper and onion 
about half an hour; add the spaghetti, Crisco and cheese and let become very 
hot (over boiling water). 

GREEN CORN, CREOLE STYLE 

8 to 10 ears green corn 3 tomatoes, peeled and sliced 

yi green pepper, chopped 1 teaspoonful sugar 

1 to 2 tablespoonfuls grated yi teaspoonful salt 
onion 2 tablespoonfuls Crisco 

Cut the tips of the kernels from the corn on the cobs, then with the back of 
the knife press out the pulp. To these tips and the pulp add the onion, the 
tomatoes, sugar and salt and let cook until the liquid has evaporated some- 
what; add the Crisco and more seasoning if needed. 

STEWED CABBAGE 

Remove any imperfect leaves from a head of new cabbage; cut the cabbage in 
quarters, discarding the hard portion in the center. Let stand in cold water 
about an hour; drain and shred rather coarse. Cover with boiling water and 
let cook, partly covered, from half to three-fourths of an hour; drain in a col- 
ander and return to the fire with (for a quart) a cupful of cream and stir until 
boiling; add a teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful of paprika, and a table- 
spoonful of Crisco, in little bits. Let simmer two or three minutes, then 
serve. 

ONIONS STUFFED WITH HAM 

8 onions yi teaspoonful paprika 

1 cupful chopped ham, cooked ^4 teaspoonful salt 

1 cupful soft sifted bread 1 tablespoonful fine-chopped 

crumbs parsley 

/4 cupful melted Crisco 1 cupful milk or broth 

Peel the onions and let cook in boiling water until nearly tender; let cool a 
little and cut out the centers to leave a thin wall of onion; chop the onion re- 
moved and mix with the other ingredients, except the broth, and use to fill 
the onion cases, rounding the mixture above; more salt may be needed. Pour 
the broth or milk around the onions set in a baking dish and let cook half an 
hour or longer in the oven. Serve with or without cream sauce; chopped nut 
meats may be used in place of the ham. 

BROILED TOMATOES 

Cut off a thin slice from the ends of each tomato. Do not peel them, cut them 
in halves crosswise; sprinkle with salt and pepper, dip in melted Crisco and 
then iu cracker crumbs; set in a well-Criscoed broiler and let cook over the 
coals or under a gas flame from six to eight minutes, turning two or three 
times. Serve on slices of toast or on flat cakes of Hamburg steak. 

98 

XJse level measurementa 
for all inijredieiits 



CREAMED CABBAGE AU GRATIN 

3 cupfuls tlioppoil pookcd I4 lfas|)0(iiiriil paprika 

cabbage i fupl'iils milk 

'4 cupful Ci'isco J 2 to 1 cupful grated cheese 

'4 cupful tlour -J cupful cracker crumbs 

J 2 teaspoonful salt 3 tablespoonfuls melted Crisco 

Cut a crisp head of cabbage iu quarters and remove the central stalk from each 
piece; freshen in cold water if needed. Set to cook in a large saucepan of boil- 
ing water, uncovered; let boil from half to three-fourths an hour, but remove 
from the fire before the crispness is gone. Chop rather course. For three cup- 
fuls of the cooked cabbage melt the Crisco, add the flour and seasonings and let 
cook until frothy; add the milk and stir until boiling; add the grated cheese and 
the cabbage, mi.\ and turn into a baking dish. Cover with (he cracker crumbs 
mixed with the Crisco and set into the oven until the crumbs are browned. 

TIMBALES OF SPINACH 

i quarts spinach J 2 teaspoonful pepper 

'2 teaspoonful salt .'! egg yolks, beaten light 

/i teaspoonful sugar IJ2 cupfuls brown sauce 

Remove outside lea\'es and coarse stalks from the spinach, wash thoroughly, 
changing the water many times. Add salt and let boil ten to fifteen minutes, 
turning the spinach many times. Use no water but tliat clinging to the spin- 
ach after washing; drain in a colander, pressing out all the water; chop very 
fine, add the seasonings and the egg yolks and mi.\ thoroughly; turn into Cris- 
coed timbale molds fitted with a round of paper'in the bottcjni; jjress into the 
molds compactly; set the molds in a baking dish on many folds of paper and 
turn boiling water around the molds to half their height; let cook until firm; 
serve with cream sauce; if the spinach is served ^^■ith meat having a sauce, 
this sauce will ans^^■er for both dishes. .See Creain Sauce, page 70. 

CANNED PEAS WITH FRESH CARROTS 

1 large carrot 1 teaspoonful sugar 

1 can peas J 2 teaspooiiful black pepper 

1 teaspoonful salt 3 tablespoonfuls Crisco 

Scrape or pare the carrots and cut in small pieces of the same size; slices cut 
in quarters or inch-long strips are suitable. Wash, then let simmer in boiling 
water until tender, the time will depend on the age of the carrots. When 
cooked, the water should be nearly evaporated. 'Drain the peas, rinse in cold 
water, cover with boiling water, let boil vigorously, then drain and add to the 
carrots; add the seasonings, shake until well mixed and serve at once. 

JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES 

.Jerusalem artichokes resemble potatoes in appearance, but in composition 
they are more like turnips. Pare and throw into cold water, to keep them 
frorn turning black. Set to cook in boiling, salted water. When nearly tender 
(twenty or Iwenly-Gve minutes) prepare a whitcisauce — a cupful is enough for 
four or five artichokes — using half cream and half water, in which the arti- 
chokes were cooked, as the li(|uid. Drain Ihe cooked artichokes, shake over a 
hot stove lid to dry off, then turn into a hot dish and pour the sauce over them. 
A little onion or lemon juice, or both, may be added to the sauce. For white 
sauce, see page 70. 

99 

l^HC level rttfiinureiiie 
f'>r III! inijrrdii.'nh 



BAKED WINTER SQUASH 

Cut or break squash into pieces of a size suitable to serve indiviJually; re- 
move seeds and stringy portions, but retain the skin. Bake in the oven as 
potatoes; the time will be from thirty to forty minutes. 

CORN PUDDING 

3 tablespoonfuls corn meal 2 cupfuls hot milk 

1 teaspoonful salt 1 tablespoonful Crisco 

^,4 teaspoonful paprika 1 cupful fresh corn pulp or 

yi cupful cold milk yi can corn or Kornlct 

2 eggs 
Stir the corn meal with the salt, paprika and cold milk, then stir into the hot 
milk. Cook and stir over boiling water until the mi.xture thickens; remove 
from the fire and stir in the other ingredients. Turn into a Criscoed baking 
dish suitable to send to the table; set on several folds of paper, in a dish of 
boiling water; let cook until the center is Grin. Serve hot as a vegetable with 
the meat course, or with bread and butter at luncheon or supper. One or two 
tablespoonfuls of chopped green or red pepper is an addition to the dish well 
worth trying. 

FRANCONIA POTATOES FOR ROAST MEAT 

I'are the required number of potatoes, cover with boiling salted water and let 
cook about fifteen minutes; drain and set to cook around a roast of meat; baste 
with hot fat each time the meat is basted. Let cook about forty minutes. 

GRILLED SWEET POTATOES 

Peel cold, boiled or baked, sweet potatoes, and cut them, lengthwise, into slices 
about half an inch thick; dip these in melted Cfisco, season with salt and pep- 
per and set in a well-Criscoed broiler; let cook until well browned, first on one 
side and then on the other. Serve hot with steak, chops, sausages, etc. 

BROWNED HASHED POTATOES 

]i cupfid Crisco 1 teaspoonful salt 

C to 8 cold boiled potatoes ]i teaspoonful pepper 

Heat the Crisco in a cast-iron frying pan, put in the potatoes chopped fine, 
s^prinkle on the salt and pepper, mi.K all together thoroughly while the potatoes 
arc becoming hot; cover and let cook over a moderate fire until the potatoes 
are browned next the pan. Run a spatula beneath half of the potatoes and 
turn this half over the other; hold in place while any surplus fat is drained 
off, then loosen the under side of the potato from the pan and turn onto a hot 
serving dish. 

MASHED POTATOES 

Select eight or ten old potatoes of the same size; pare and let stand in cold 
water two hours or longer. Boil in salted water until done (about twenty 
minutes), drain, sprinkle with salt and return partly covered to the back of 
the range, ^a^'e read.y a second saucepan and; about half a cupful of cream 
or milk with two or three tablespoonfuls of Crisco hot on the stove; press the 
potatoes through a riccr into the second saucepan, sprinkle on a teaspoonful 
or more of salt and beat vigorously with a slitted wooden spoon. The pota- 
toes should be light and fluffy, neither too moist nor too dry; pile lightly in a 
hot dish and serve at once. 



\' se level rncajiuretiicnts 
fur all ingredients 



100 



SALAD DRESSINGS 

FRENCH DRESSING 

3 tablospoonfuls oil '_i teaspoonful salt 

1 to S tablospoonfuls k'luon Js teaspoonful pepper 

juice or vinegar 
The ingredients for the ilressing may be mixed land poured at once over the 
salad materials, which are then turned over and. over until the dressinj; has 
been taken up by them; or the eonilinienls, mixed with the oil. may be first 
used, then, after each leaf or separate i)icec has been thoroughly coated with 
the oil, the acid may be pouroil on and the salad turned over anil over until 
the acid is evenly mixed throughout. Neither I'Vench nor mayonnaise dressini,' 
should be strongly aeid, and one tablespoonful of acid to three of oil is a good 
jiroportion in most salads. For fish and beets two tablespoonfuls of acid to 
three of oil would be preferred by many. Equal quantities of oil and acid are 
favored by people aecustomeil to using so-called "boiled dressings" or by 
those aecustomeil to eating vinegar on eueumliers or tomatoes. Tomatoes 
arc mildly aeid and it is a nnstake to overpower this natural aeid with a quan- 
tity of vinegar. .V very little vinegar or lemon juice in a dressing will "give 
point" to (or bring out) the natural acid flavor of the tomato. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING (OLIVE OIL) 

1 egg yolk, beaten light 2 tablespoonfuls lemon 
J^' teaspoonful salt juice or vinegar 

J4 teaspoonful paprika 1 cupful olive oil 

2 tablespoonfuls boiling water 
To the beaten yolk, adil the salt, pa[)rika and acid and beat with an egg 
beater until well blended; add one teaspoonful of olive oil and beat it in 
thoroughly; then add another teaspoonful of oil,, and, when this is thorough- 
ly blended with the other ingredient.s, add a third teaspoonful; continue in the 
same manner, adding the oil, in a short time, by the tablespoonfid until a cup- 
ful in all of oil has been used; then beat in the boiling water; a tablespoonful 
at a time. If all of the dressing is not used at once, co\-cr it with an earthen 
or glass dish and set it aside in a cool place. 

USE OF FRENCH AND MAYONNAISE DRESSING 

A French dressing is used for green vegetnldes, for fruit and nuts and to 
season cooked vegetables, meat or fish to be used hiter with mayonnaise 
dressing. French dressing is used on salads served at dinner. Mayonnaise 
dressing is used for delicate meats, fish, bananas, apples and pineapples and 
for some vegetables as cauIiHower, asparagus and tomatoes. The vegetables 
enumerated above dressed with mayonnaise are sometimes served as an en- 
troe at dinner, but in general mayonnaise dressing is reserved for use at 
luncheon or banquets. Cooked dressings arc used in place of mayonnaise, 
but there is no substitute for French dressing. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING WITH CRISCO 

1 cupful Crisco, unmelted 1 teaspoonful salt 

2 egg yolks, beaten light Ji teaspoonful paprika 

1 teaspoonful mustard y^ teaspoonful black pepper 

4 tablespoonfuls vinegar 
Beat the Crisco to a cream, very gradually beat in the yolks, then the season- 
ings and, la.->lly, drop by drop, the vinegar. 

101 

Use level incnsiireiitenls 
Jur all inijrcilinih 



SUGGESTIONS FOR COOKING AT HIGH ALTITUDES 

At sea level water boils at 212° F., at higher altitudes the air is 
rarer and atmospheric pressure is diminished and water boils at a 
lower temperature than 212° F. For each rise of about five hun- 
dred and thirty feet above sea level the boiling point of water falls 
one degree. At five thousand feet above sea level, the boiling point 
of water is about 202° F., and at ten thousand one feet, the boiling 
point is about 193° F. Thus, when potatoes are boiling at ten 
thousand feet altitude, they are subjected to about the same de- 
gree of heat as potatoes cooking on the coast in a double boiler, 
or a fireless cooker, and, in consecjuence, a longer time must be 
allowed to cook them. In a few words, while thirty minutes will 
suffice to cook a potato on the seacoast, from sixty to ninety 
minutes would be needed at ten thousand feet. This variation de- 
pends on atmospheric pressure, which varies according to the alti- 
tude. All other lines of cooking are influenced by this same 
variation of pressure. 

As sLrorig lieat is necessary to sear over the outside of meats to 
be boiled or roasted, that the juices be kept within the meat, and as 
boiling water at high altitudes sears over but imperfectly, it is best 
to subject such joints first to hot, dry heat in a frying pan. Turn 
the meat, as each surface is crusted over, until all the surfaces 
have been so treated, then transfer to l)oiling water or the oven to 
complete the cooking at the usual temperature, 165° to 170° F". 

In cake making at high altitudes the external atmospheric pres- 
sure being less, the cell walls holding the gases generated by the 
leavening agents and the creaming of the Crisco and the sugar 
tend to expand too much, burst and run together and the outer 
cell walls not yet being sufficiently hardened by heat, also settle 
and the cake is heavy. The remedy is to maintain equilibrium 
between external and internal pressure, and this is done by the 
formation of less air cells: i. e., in practice, by the use of less 
shortening and sugar or less leavening agent; or, by increasing 
the tenacity of the dough; in practice, by being sure to use fresh 
eggs and more of them. 

Any of the recipes for cakes, cookies, or shortened mixtures, 
given in this book can probably be used successfully by simply 
cutting down the quantity of Crisco one-third and sugar one-fourth. 

Sugar and water for frosting and fondant requiring longer 
cooking than at sea level, the syrup will register from 218° to 220° 
F., at the soft ball stage. 

102 



mM#ffl'^^^o:|^ 




--^^l 




^ 



3 teaspoonfuls of liquid 

equal T tablespoonful 

4 tablespoonfuls of liquid 

equal , . . .Ji gill, or '4 a cupful 
J 2 a cupful 

equals 1 gill 

i gills 

ecjual 1 L-upful 

■2 cu[>fuls 

equal 1 piut 

'2 |>ints ( 4 eu[>fuls) 

equal 1 quart 

4 cupfuls of li<|uifl 

ecpial i fjUarr Scraping spOun for level measurement. spoonful 

4 eupfuls of flour 

equal 1 pnuuil, or 1 quart 

2 eupfuls of Criseo. solid 

equal 1 pound 

J 2 a cupful of Criseo, solicl 

equals '+ a pound. 4 oz. 

i cupfuLs of granulated .sugar 

equal 1 poun<l 

^2 J 2 eupfuls of powdered sugar 

equal 1 pound 

1 pint of milk, or water 

equals 1 pound 

1 pint of chopped meat (solid) 

equals 1 pftund 

It) eggs fwithf>ut shells) 

equal 1 pound 

8 eggs, with shells 

equal 1 pound 

2 tablespoonfuls of Cris<(j 

equal 1 ounce 

4 tablespoonfuls of Criseo 

equal .. 2 ounces, or '4 a cupful 
2 tablespoonfuls of granulated sugar 

equal 1 ounce 

4 tablespoonfuls of flour 

equal 1 ounce 

4 tablespoonfuls of ground coffee 

equal 1 ounce 

1 tablespoonful of liquiil 

equals j'2 ounce 

103 




Cutting lenethwise for ' :■ spoonful 




j^i^ 




Cutting for ' , spoonful 



1 cupful of liquid to 1 cupful of flour for pour batters. 

1 cupful of liquid to 'i cupfuls of flour for drop batters. 

1 cupful of liquid to 3 cupfuls of flour for dough. 

,'3 to 2 or more cakes of compressed yeast softened in yi cupful of water to i 
cupfuls of liquid ('3 yeast cake to 2 cupfuls of liquid is used in bread mixed 
at night, 1 cake or more, according to the time available for rising when bread 
is mixed in the morning. By using several yeast cakes to 2 cupfuls of liquid 
bread may be baked in three or four hours from lime of mixing). 

}2 a cupful of liquid yeast (either compressed yeast dissolved in }i cupful 
liquid, or any other yeast such as potato yea.st) to i cupfuls of liquid. 

1 teaspoonful of soda and 3/j \g\A teaspoonfuls'of cream of tartar to 4 cup- 
fuls of flour. 

i teaspoonfuls of baking powder to 1 cupful of flour, when eggs are .toI used. 

1 teaspoonful of soda to 2 cupfuls of thick sour milk. 

1 teaspoonful of soda to 1 cupful of molasses, 

34 a teaspoonful of salt lo i cupfuls of milk for custards. 

3<4 a teaspoonful of salt to 1 cujjful, or 1 teasj>oOnful to -i cupfuls, of sauce or 
soup. 

1 teaspoonful of flavoring extract to 4 cupfuls of custard, or cream. 

1 tablespoonful of flavoring extract to 4 cupfuls of mixture to be frozen. 

-3 cupful, or less, of sugar to 4 cupfuls of milk for custards, etc. 

1 cupful of sugar to 4 cui)fuls of milk or cream for ice cream. 

4 eggs to 4 cupfuls of milk for plain cup custard. 

G to S eggs to 1 cupfids of milk for molded custards. 

'4 a package, or half an luincc of gelatine to '2 cupfuls (scant) of liquid. 

3 cupfuls of ;\'atcr, or of milk, or stock, to 1 cupful of rice. 

1 ounce (2 tablespoonfuls) of Crisco, li ounce (2 tablespoonfuls) of flour to 1 
cupful of liquid for sauce. 

1 ounce (2 tablespoonfuls) of Crisco, yi ounce (2 tablespoonfuls) of flour to 2 
cupfuls of liquid for soups. 

1 cupful of cooked meat, or fish cut in cubes, to y^ or 1 whole cupful of sauce. 

Meat from ?j]2 pound chicken equals about 2 cupfuls or 1 poun<l. 

THINGS TO REMEMBER IN CONNECTION WITH THE RECIPES 

\Mieu usiug HI plaff of lniLlir, add sail, in Lbe propurliuii uf ciiit' lt'\i'l lea.spoDnful Lu one cupful of 
Crisco. 

When there is smoke in the kitchen, Crisco has burned or heated ton higli for frying. Or some may 
have been on the oaisidc of the pan or keHte. 

When using Crisco in your regular recipes remember that as it contains no moislure it is nuieh richer 
ihan butter nnd, therefore, ,':( less should be used. 

In making sauces, thoroughly blend the flour and Crisco before adding the milk. In using melted 
Crisco in boiled dressintj, croquettes, rolls, fritters, etc., be sure*that the melted Crisco is cooled suffi- 
ciently so that the hot fat will not injure the texture of the foods. 
Crisco, like butter, is susceptible to heat and cold. When tool hard, simply put in a warm place. 

104 




Introduction . 

The W h ys of Cooking 

The Story of Oisro 

Modern Kitclioiis 

Serving 

Frying 

Cakes . . . 

Pastry . . 

Breads 

Meats . . . 

Vegetables 

Salad Dressings 

High Altitude Cooking 

Weights and Measures 



2 

,■! 

.5 

1'? 

iO 

29 

ii 

fiO 

7.'t 

8-i 

93 

101 

10-2 

103 



RECIPES 



?YING 


Page 


Banana Croquettes 


39 


Cheese Crorjiietles 


■Jd 


Cheese Fingers .... 


4-2 


Cheese Fritters .... 


40 


Chicken Croquettes 


35 


CodHsh Balls, Salt, En Surprise . 


43 


Crullers ... 


43 


Oougbnuts 


:i:l 


Efii^plant, Frie'l .... 


37 


Fish, Fric<] F.llels of Fr.-sh , 


3H 


Halibut Cutlets ... 


3K 


Halil.ut Hearts. Brea.le.l and Fr;,-,! 


3K 


Ham Croquettes .... 


41 


Lamlj. Cutlets of, Portuguese 




Fashitjn 


39 


Lamb Cutlets, Breaded 


38 


Maearoni Croquettes, Cheese 




Sauee 


4t 


Molasses Doughnuts 


41 


Orange Knots 


4i> 


Oysters, F'ried .... 


39 


Pineapple, Canned, Fritters 


37 


Potatoes Anna ... 


37 


Potato Doughnuts 


4i 


Potatoes, French Fried 


34 



Potato Fritters 
Potato Patties 
PoUtoes; Whole, Fried 
Rice Croquetles, Easter St,\lc 
Salmon-an<l-Polato Croquettes 
Sausage Croquettes 
S«'edish Timbale Cases 
Sweet Potato Croiiueltes 



CAKES 

.\llanlies, wilh Frosling 
Coeoanut and Cboeolate .Ii 
Date Cookies 
Denver Jr High ,\Uilu.lc 

Chocolate F'rosling 
Emil.v's ^Yhile Cake, Choc, 

Frosting . 
FavoritcfHigh Altitude Ca 
Fruit and Nut Cake 
Fudge Cake, I'Vosling, Fdl 
Ciala Cake, Gala Frosling 
Gingcrsnaps 

Jelly Cake, Egg Frosting 
Jelly Roll 



Page 



37 
3-i 
40 
40 
40 
4-2 
43 



UUlblcS 


.ji; 


Cake. 


:,.-, 


olale 


411 


ke 


.55 




54 


ing , 


53 




57 




5B 




55 




51 



105 



Ctiko, with Frost- 



Lady Baltimore 

ing 

Lemon Cake, Filling 

Lemon Citron Cake 

Lord Baltimore Cake, Frosting 

Moeha Cake .... 

Rlocha l-'rosting 

Molasses Ci»okies, Soft 

Newport Cake 

Oatmeal Macaroons 

Orange Gold Cake 

Plain Cake .... 

Ribbon Cake .... 

Roxbury Nut Cakes 

Spiced Ginger Layer Cake . 

White Fig Cake . 

PASTRY 



Chicken Patties, Easy, Cream 
Sauce 

Chou Paste 

Pastry, Flaky 

Pastry, Plain . 

Pie, Apple 

Pie, Apple, English 

Pie, Berry 

Pie, Butterscotch . 

Pie, Chicken 

Pie, Cranberry, Open, or Tart, with 
Cooked Cranberry Filling or 
Canned Pineapple Filling 

Pie, Cream Tart, New England 

Pie, Custard .... 

Pie, Prune, with Filling 

Pie, Rhubarb 

Pie, Squash .... 



BREADS 

Apple Dumpling 
Biscuit, Baking Powder 
Biscuit, Potato 
Bread, Noisette 
Bread, Quick Nut . 
Bread, Rye Meal . 
Bread, Two Loaves White 
Buns, Philadelphia Butter 
Buns, Squash . 
Chicken Pie, Individual 
Chicken Roly Poly 
Cookies, Honey 
Corn Bread 
Corn Bread, Soft . 
Corn Meal Griddle Cakes 
Cuflee Cake 
Meat Pie, Biscuit Crust 
MutEns, Rich Graham , 
Muffins, White 
Muffins, Whole Wheat . 
Rice Griddle Cakes 
Rolls, Nut-and-Fruit 



Page 

59 
54 
54 
50 
53 
54 
50 
57 
54 
5'2 
58 
56 
58 
57 
50 



70 
70 
67 
66 
60 
67 
68 
67 
70 



69 
6S 
61 
68 
67 



81 
80 
80 
78 
81 
70 
78 
81 
79 
79 
80 
83 
71 
Bi 
81 
72 
8S 
82 

Si 

83 



Rolls, (iuiek Yeast. 
Sally Lunn, Quick . 
Strawberry Shortcake 
Tea Scones 
Waffles . 

MEATS 



Br. 



Beef Balls with Spaghetti 
Beef, Roast Sirloin of. 

Sauce 

Beef, Spiced 

Beef SteW 

Beefsteak Birds .... 
Beefsteak Chowder 
Chicken; Jugged .... 
Chicken, Panned or Smothered . 
Corned Beef Hash .... 
Corned Beef Souffle 

Ham, Boiled 

Hamburg Steak a la Tartare, Ti 

mato Sauce .... 
Pork, Crown of, with Small Onions 
Pork, Roast Leg of . . . 

Round Steak, Casserole of . 
Sausages Baked, with Creamed 

Potatoes 

Steak, Swiss 

Tripe, Broiled with Bacon Balls . 
Veal, Brown Fricassee of 
Veal, Rechauffe of Roast 

VEGETABLES 

Artichokes. Jerusalem 
Cabbage, Creamed, au Gratin 
Cabbage, Stewed .... 
Corn, Green, Creole Style 
Corn Pudding .... 

Macaroni and Cheese, Baked 
Onions, Stuffed with Celery. 
Onions, Stuffed with Ham . 
Peas. Canned, with Fresh Carrots 
Potatoes, Browned Hashed . 
Potatoes, Franconia, for Roast 

Meat 

Potatoes, Mashed .... 
Potatoes, Stuffed .... 
Spaghetti with Tomatoes 
Spinach, Timbales of . . . 
Squash au Gratin .... 
Squash, Baked Winter . 
Sweet Potatoes, Grilled. 
Tomatoes, Broiled .... 
Yams, Candied .... 



SALAD DRESSINGS 

French Dressing ..... 
Mayonnaise Dressing (Olive Oil) 
Mayonnaise Dressing with Crisco 
Use of French and Mayonnaise 
Dressing 



101 
101 
101 



106 



EVERY HOUSEKEEPER WHO RECEIVES 
"THE WHYS OF COOKING" 

Should also send for the three helpful books described below 

These books treat of subjects equally as important as the matter in the 
present volume. No kitcheu library is complete without them. Written by 
recognized authorities, they contain just the information which the experi- 
enced cook as we'.l as the beginner will be glad tO: have conveniently at hand. 

A CALENDAR OF DINNERS 

By MARION HARRIS NEIL 
the famous cooking expert 

Contains a dinner menu for e\ery day of the lyear — 30.5 in all, Cl.j tested 
recipes — many entirely new and original, and much instructive material that 
will help any woman set a bettor and more ecouomieal table, (.'loth hound. 
Gold stamped. Sent post-paid in response to this olFer, upon receipt of 10 
cents, stamps or coin. Regular price io cents. 

BALANCED DAILY DIET 

By JANET McKENZIE HILL 
Editor and Publisher of "American Cookery." 

A simple and practical treatise on the subject whose importance to health is 
now so widely recognized — that is, the planning of the day"s meals so they 
shall include the comhinatton of foods necessar\' to proper nourishment. 
Contains a comprehensive list of foods classified according to their principal 
elements, a series of typical seasonable menu.s with changes and substitutions, 
made possible to suit individual tastes, and 150 recipes especially prepared 
and tested by the author. Beautifully illustrated in colors. Follow the sug- 
gestions in this volume and your meals will l>e healthful as well as delicious. 
Sent post-paid, in response to this offer, upon receipt of lU cents, stamps or 
coin. Regular price i.5 cents. 

RECIPES FOR EVERYDAY 

By JANET McKENZIE HILL 

"Recipes for Everyday " is a timely addition t(j the Crisco Library of house- 
hold helps. To the liousewife who is revising her menu after the days of 
conservation the book offers a choice of many new and tasteful foods. The 
end of conservation does not mean the lieginning of extravagance. The 
more than two hundred tested recipes in this valuable book are a boon to 
the thrifty and the economical. Sent post-paid, in response to this oH'er, 
upon receipt of 10 cents, stamps or coin. Regular price 25 cents. 

Send 10 cents for either book or 30 cents for the three books to THE PROCTER 
8b GAMBLE CO., Dept. C. B., Cincinnati, Ohio. Mention in your letter the 
book or books you want and write your name and address plainly. 




Crisco is packed in five sizes as follows: 
1 pound net weight 
1 pound 8 ounces net weight 
;5 pounds net weight 
pounds net weight 
pounds net weight 
(Al)ovc weights are exclusive of cans) 













m. 



iJ'-- 



"T 









- 4 






