
THE LIBRARY 

OF 

THE UNIVERSITY 
OF CALIFORNIA 

LOS ANGELES 




Table of Contents 



Recipe Page 

No. No. 

Amber, Peach 23 14 

An Appetizing Peach Sauce for 

Meats 45 25 

Apple and Peach Meringue 52 29 

Batter Pudding, Peach 21 13 

Betty, Peach 10 8 

Blanc Mange, Peach 37 21 

Blue Ribbon Peaches with 

Chocolate Sauce 55 30 

Blue Ribbon Peach Fritters 58 31 

Blue Ribbon Peaches in Frozen 

Rice Border 15 10 

Blue Ribbon Peach Cobbler 31 18 

Blue Ribbon Peach Marmalade 9 8 

Bread Cake, Peach 30 17 

Bread, Steamed Peach 56 30 

Cakes, Hot Peach 35 20 

Cake, Peach Bread 30 17 

Cheese Salad, Peaches and 6 5 

Chocolate Layer Cake, Peach 24 15 

Chocolate Sauce, Blue Ribbon 

Peaches with 55 30 

Cobbler, Blue Ribbon Peach 31 18 

Cocoanut and Peach Pudding.... 59 31 
Cocktails in Orange Baskets, 

Peach 40 23 

Colonial Pudding, Peach 22 13 

Compote, Peach and Pineapple.. 38 21 

Cottage Pudding, Peach 34 20 

Cranberries, Peaches and 36 21 

Cream Pie, Peach 11 8 

Currant Tart, Peachs and 14 9 

Custard, French Peach 49 28 

Delicious Peach Pie 48 27 

Delicious Peach Surprise 3 4 

Favorites, Peach 18 12 

French Peach Custard 49 28 ' 

Fried Bread, Peaches with 

Savory 57 30 

Fried Peach Pies 53 29 

Fritters, Blue Ribbon Peach 58 31 

Frozen Rice Border, Blue Rib- 
bon Peaches in 15 10 

Gateau en Surprise, Peach 51 28 

Genoese Peach Roll 16 11 

Grape, Peach and Pineapple 

Salad 7 6 

Holiday Salad, Peach 2 4 

Hot Peach Cakes 35 20 

Ice Cream, Peach 50 28 

Jellied Peaches with Cream 39 22 

Layer Cake, Peach Chocolate 24 15 

Log Cabin Salad, Peach 43 24 

Marmalade, Peach 9 8 

Nut and Peach Cake 60 31 

Nut Dainties, Peaches and 17 12 

Nut Parfait, Peaches and 19 12 

Omelet Souffle, Peach 54 29 

Orange Baskets, Peach Cocktail 

in 40 23 

Oriental Style Peaches 44 25 

Pastry Fingers, Peach 29 17 

Peach Amber 23 14 

Peach and Apple Meringue 52 29 

Peach and Cheese Salad 6 5 

Peach and Cocoanut Pudding.... 59 31 

Peach and Currant Tart 14 9 

Peach and Nut Cake 60 31 

Peach and Nut Dainties 17 12 

Peach and Nut Parfait 19 12 

Peach and Pineapple Compote.... 38 21 

Peach Batter Pudding 21 13 

Peach Betty 10 8 

Peach Blanc Mange 37 21 

Peach Bread Cake 30 17 

Peach Cakes, Hot 35 20 

Peach Chocolate Layer Cake.... 24 15 

Peach Cobbler, Blue Ribbon 31 18 



Recipe Page 

No. No. 
Peach Cocktail in Orange 

Baskets 40 23 

Peach Colonial Pudding 22 13 

Peach Cottage Pudding 34 20 

Peach Cream Pie 11 

Peach Custard, French 49 28 

Peach Favorites 18 12 

Peach Fritters, Blue Ribbon 58 

Peach Gateau en Surprise 51 28 

Peach Holiday Salad 2 

Peach Ice Cream 50 28 

Peach Log Cabin Salad 43 24 

Peach Omelet Souffle 54 29 

Peach Pastry Fingers 29 17 

Peach Pies, Fried 53 29 

Peach Pie 1 

Peach Pie, Delicious 48 27 

Peach, Pineapple and Grape 

Salad 7 6 

Peach Pot Pie 27 16 

Peach Pudding, Steamed , 32 19 

Peach Puree 41 24 

Peach Raisin Pie 5 

Peach Rice Sundae 25 16 

Peach Roll, Genoese 16 11 

Peach Sandwiches 20 18 

Peach Sauce for Meats, An 

Appetizing 45 25 

Peach Soup 8 

Peach Summer Pudding 46 25 

Peach Surprise, Delicious 3 

Peach Tapioca 4 5 

Peach Tart 42 24 

Peach Wafers, with Marshmal- 

low 26 16 

Peaches and Cranberries 36 21 

Peaches in Frozen Rice Border 15 10 

Peaches in Swedish Timbales 47 26 

Peaches, Jellied, with Cream 39 22 

Peaches, Oriental Style 44 25 

Peaches, Petits Croux of 28 17 

Peaches, Spiced 33 20 

Peaches with Cereal 13 9 

Peaches with Fried Bread 

Savory 57 30 

Petits Croux of Peaches 28 17 

Pie, Delicious Peach 48 27 

Pineapple and Peach Compote.... 38 21 
Pineapple, Peach and Grape 

Salad 7 6 

Pot Pie, Peach 27 16 

Pudding, Cottage, Peach 34 20 

Pudding, Peach Batter 21 13 

Pudding, Peach Summer 46 25 

Pudding, Steamed Peach 32 18 

Puree, Peach 41 24 

Raisin Pie, Peach 5 5 

Rice Sundae, Peach 25 16 

Roll, Genoese Peach 16 11 

Salad, Log Cabin Peach 43 24 

Salad, Peach, Pineapple and 

Grape _ 6 

Sandwiches, Peach 20 13 

Sauce for Meats, Peach, An 

Appetizing 45 25 

Sliced Peaches 12 9 

Souffle, Peach Omelet 54 29 

Soup, Peach 8 

Steamed Peach Bread 56 30 

Steamed Peach Pudding 32 19 

Spiced Peaches 33 20 

Summer Pudding, Peach 46 25 

Sundae, Peach Rice 25 16 

Swedish Timbales, Peaches in.... 47 26 

Tapioca, Peach 4 6 

Tart, Peach 42 24 

Wafers, Peach, with Marshmal- 

low 26 18 



OEADELL 20 MARION HARRIS NEIL. M.C.A. 



HOME ECONOMICS EXPERT. WRITER AND ILLUSTRATOR. 
FORMER COOKERY EDITOR. THE LADIES' HOME JOURNAL. 
CONTRIBUTOR TO MANY LEADING MAGAZINES AND NEWSPAPERS. 
PHOPHIETAHY FOODS AUTHOR OF "HOW TO COOK IN CASSEROLE DISHES." TO"FO>'MA^FAC"OR'E 

AND SPECIALTIES "CANDIES AND BONBONS AND HOW TO MAKE THEM." FOB coon BOORS 

PRACTICALLY TESTED "CANNING, PRESERVING AND PICKLING." BOOKLETS AND FOLDERS 

"THE SOMETHING DIFFERENT DISH." AND 
'SALADS. SANDWICHES AND CHAFING DISH RECIPES." ETC. 



California Peach Growers, inc. 
Fresno, California. 



GREEHACRia 

CRADELL, H.J. 

February 4th, 1920. 



Gentlemen: - 

The task of preparing your illustrated recipe book 

has been a very pleasant one, for there are practically un- 
limited attractive and appetizing combinations to be obtained 
with Blue Ribbon Peaches. 

The possibilities of Blue Ribbon Peaches are well nigh 
infinite. In my experiments I found that this wonderful fruit 
food can be used in the same delicious ways as the fresh fruit. 

In my opinion your product is economical and convenient, 
and when suitably cooked and daintily served, is one of the most 
nutritious and easily digestible foods that can be provided either 
for adults or for children. 

Whoever has not been tempted to try what nourishing 
dishes can be produced with the aid of Blue Ribbon Peaches, end who 
may be induced by means of a recipe or illustrated dish in this 
book to make the trial, is very certain to come under the spell 
of this magic fruit. 

Very truly yours, 







Reach 



es 



the same as fresh peaches except 
that the water has been remcrved 
by natural evaporation in the open sun- 
shine. * They differ from other dried 
peaches in that the fuzz <*nd much of the 
peeling has been remcrved by a thorough 
'washing and brushing, before the fruit is 
packed $* <SMany attractive dishes can be 
prepared from them $* They are bright in 
color as well as wholesome and economical. 

Food authorities advise that people 
should eat more fruit $* It is the natural 
food of man 3* ^ch in natural sugars 
and fruit acids, they are also one of 
the principal sources of mineral elements 
so important to health # These together 
with their laxative properties make dried 
peaches a valuable article of food for 
daily use, either as stewed peaches for 

breakfast or in a variety of soups, 
salads and deserts. 





eac 



RECIPE No. 1 

PEACH PIE 

l!/2 cups Blue Ribbon Peaches 

(Softened overnight and stewed slowly) 

1.1/2 cups water 

1 cup sugar 

1 tablespoon cornstarch 

1 lemon 

2 eggs, beaten 
pie crust 

Slice the peaches, then stew them with the water and sugar, then add corn- 
starch mixed with the juice of lemon and a little of the grated rind and the 
beaten yolks of eggs. Fill into a pastry lined pie plate and bake until crust is 
done. Beat up whites of eggs, then beat into them two tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
spread this meringue over the top of pie and return to oven to brown. 

RECIPE No. 2 

PEACH HOLIDAY SALAD 

1 envelope powdered gelatine 

21/2 cups boiling water 

l /2 cup lemon juice 

1 cup Blue Ribbon Peaches 

(Softened overnight and stewed slowly) 

1/2 cup raisins 

1/2 cup chopped nut meats 

crisp lettuce leaves 

pomegranate 

mayonnaise dressing 

Dissolve gelatine in water, add lemon juice; let cool, and when it begins 
to set, add the fruits and nuts. When very firm, cut in squares and place on 
lettuce leaves. Sprinkle pomegranate juice over top, and serve with a ring 
of mayonnaise dressing. 

The pomegranate may be omitted. 

RECIPE No. * 

DELICIOUS PEACH SURPRISE 

envelope powdered gelatine 

cups boiling water 
1/4, cup lemon juice 
1 cup Blue Ribbon Peaches 

(Softened overnight and stewed slowly) 

1/2 cup raisins 

1/2 cup chopped nut meats 

sponge cake 

cream 

Dissolve gelatine in water; add lemon juice and allow to cool. When 
beginning to set, add peaches, nuts and raisins. When firm, cut in squares, 
and serve on slices of sponge cake. Serve with cream. 

If desired, each portion may be decorated with whipped and sweetened 
cream. 

page four 





ae 



RECIPE No. 4 

PEACH TAPIOCA 
1 cup Blue Ribbon Peaches 

(Softened overnight and stewed slowly) 

1/2 cup granulated tapioca 
4 cups water 
Vz CU P sugar 
1 teaspoon salt 

Cut the peaches in quarters. Cook the tapioca in the water until clear; 
add sugar, salt and drained peaches. Pour into a wet mold or individual molds, 
set in a cool place until firm, turn out and serve with the syrup from the 
peaches, sweetened to taste. 

If desired, flavors or spices may be added to this recipe. 

RECIPE No. 5 



2 cups Blue Ribbon Peaches 

(Softened overnight and stewed slowly) 

1 cup seeded raisins 
1/2 lemon 

Vz CU P sugar 

Vz cup peach juice 

2 tablespoons cornstarch 
pie crust 

Stew or soften the peaches and chop them; add to them the raisins, lemon 
juice, sugar and peach juice. Place over a slow fire and bring to boiling point. 
Add cornstarch dissolved in a very little cold water and cook till the mixture 
is creamy. Pour into a pastry lined pie tin and bake. 

If desired, the pie may be covered with a top crust or strips of pastry. 

RECIPE No. 6 

PEACH AND CHEESE SALAD 
Blue Ribbon Peaches 

(Softened overnight and stewed slowly) 

2 cream cheeses 

y% cup finely chopped nut meats 

2 tablespoons cream 

y% teaspoon salt 

}4 teaspoon paprika 
crisp lettuce leaves 
mayonnaise or French dressing 

1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce 

Dry some softened peaches. Mash the cheeses, add nuts, cream and season- 
ings. Spread this mixture between halves of the peaches and chill. Serve 
these peach sandwiches on lettuce nests with mayonnaise or French dressing 
to which the Worcestershire sauce has been added. 

page five 




RECIPE No. 7 



PEACH, PINEAPPLE AND GRAPE SALAD 

1 cup Blue Ribbon Peaches, softened 
1 cup canned pinepple, diced 

1 cup grapes, skinned and seeded 
14 cup peach liquor 

l /4, cup pineapple juice 
1 A cup lemon juice 

2 eggs 

y% cup sugar 
% cup whipped cream 
crisp lettuce leaves 

Line salad plates with lettuce. Arrange peaches, pine- 
apple and grapes in heaps on salad leaves and serve with 
dressing. Heat peach liquor, pineapple and lemon juice 
in a duoble boiler. Beat up eggs with sugar and add them 
gradually to heated liquids. Cook for five minutes, then 
cool and add cream. 



page ji> 



RECIPE No. 8 



PEACH SOUP 



1 Ib. Blue Ribbon Peaches, softened 
4 quarts water 

2 oranges 
sugar 

4 tablespoons cornstarch 
14 teaspoon powdered nutmeg 
husks or crackers 

Wash peaches, cover them with two quarts of the 
water and soak them over night. Next day put them 
into an enameled saucepan with their water, add grated 
rinds of oranges, nutmeg, and cook until quite tender. 
Then rub as much as possible through a sieve, add re- 
mainder of water, strained orange juice and sugar to 
taste. Bring to boiling point, stir in cornstarch mixed to 
a smooth paste with a little cold water and cook ten min- 
utes, stirring constantly. Serve hot or cold with husks, 
crackers, toasted bread, puffed rice or zwieback. 

If desired, a few finely shredded blanched almonds 
may be added and sweetened cream piled on top. 




Page seven 




eac 




RECIPE No. 9 

BLUE RIBBON PEACH MARMALADE 

Ibs. Blue Ribbon Peaches 

pints water 
5 Ibs. sugar 
2 lemons 
2 oranges 

Cover the peaches with the water and allow to soak twenty-four hours. 
Cover and cook slowly one hour. Drain out the peaches and cut them 
into small pieces, return them to the water with the sugar and strained juices 
of the lemons and oranges. Cook quickly to a marmalade, stirring frequently. 
Seal in sterilized glasses. 

Another Method: Cover one pound of Blue Ribbon peaches with three 
cupfuls of water and leave overnight. Cook slowly one hour, then drain, cut 
the peaches and put them through a food chopper with one can of sliced pine- 
apple; return this pulp to the water with the pineapple juice and two pounds 
of sugar. Cook quickly to a marmalade, stirring occasionally. Seal in sterilized 
glasses. 

RECIPE No. 10 

PEACH BETTY 
Blue Ribbon Peaches 

1 egg 

y% cup sugar 

1 cup milk 

1 tablespoon butter, melted 
1^ cups flour 

2 teaspoons baking powder 
whipped and sweetened cream 

Have the peaches softened and cooked. Beat up egg; add sugar, milk, 
butter and flour sifted with baking powder and a pinch of salt. 

One-half fill a greased cake pan with this batter. Bake in a hot oven 
thirty minutes, then add another layer of peaches. Cover with the cream and 
serve. 

RECIPE No. 11 

PEACH CREAM PIE 



cups Blue Ribbon Peach pulp 
1 tablespoon cornstarch 

1 cup thin cream 

2 eggs, separated 
y% CU P sugar 

1 teaspoon vanilla extract 

2 tablespoons lemon juice 
pie crust 

In the upper pan of a double boiler mix cornstarch and cream, and cook 
over hot water until thick. Mix yolks of eggs with sugar; add peach pulp, 
vanilla and lemon juice. Pour slowly into the cream and cook five minutes. 
Line a pie plate with hot water pie crust, fill with the mixture and bake. Cover 
with a meringue made of the whites of the eggs and two tablespoonfuls of 
sugar. Brown lightly and serve. 

page eight 



RECIPE No. 12 

SPICED PEACHES 

2 Ibs. Blue Ribbon Peaches 

2 cups granulated sugar 

1 cup brown sugar 

% cup vinegar (if very strong add part water) 

spice to taste, cinnamon, allspice and whole cloves 

Soak peaches overnight to soften; add remaining ingredients and just 
enough water to cover well; let cook slowly until fruit is tender and the syrup 
is rich. 

RECIPE No. 13 

PEACHES WITH CEREAL 

2 cups Blue Ribbon Peaches, softened 
2 cups boiling milk 
1 cup fine oatmeal 
V% cup cornmeal 

1 teaspoon salt 

2 eggs, separated 

Put the peaches into a greased fireproof dish. Pour the milk into upper 
pan of a double boiler, stir in oatmeal, cornmeal and salt, then cover and cook 
over boiling water until ready, stirring frequently. Take from the fire; add 
yolks of eggs and fold in whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Pour over the 
peaches, bake fifteen minutes, and serve hot for breakfast or luncheon with 
sugar and cream. 

RECIPE No. 14 

PEACH AND CURRANT TART 

3 cups Blue Ribbon Peaches, softened 
1 package currants 

1 tablespoon butter 
1/2 cup sugar 

!/2 teaspoon powdered mace 
Pastry 

2 cups flour 

1 teaspoon baking powder 
1/2 cup butter 

4 tablespoons powdered sugar 

1 egg, separated 

2 tablespoons milk or cream 
white or pink frosting 

Into a saucepan put peaches, currants well cleaned, butter, sugar and mace. 
Cook ten minutes and turn out to cool. 

For Pastry: Sift flour and baking powder into a bowl, cut and rub in 
butter; add sugar and yolk of egg beaten and mixed with milk. Mix to stiff 
paste. Butter round cake tin about eight inches in diameter and line it with 
two- thirds of pastry; turn in peach mixture; roll out remaining piece of pastry 
into neat round and place it on top. Brush over with beaten white of egg and 
bake in moderate oven for one hour. Turn out on to serving dish and allow 
to cool. Cover with frosting and serve decorated to taste. 

If desired, the tart may be served hot without frosting. 

page nine 







RECIPE No. 15 



BLUE RIBBON PEACHES IN FROZEN 
RICE BORDER 

Yz cup rice 

2 cups cream or milk 

6 tablespoons sugar 

1 lemon 

1 cup whipped cream 

Blue Ribbon Peaches 

Wash rice and cover it with cold water, bring to boil- 
ing point, drain, rinse well in cold water, then put it into 
a saucepan with cream or milk, sugar, and finely pared 
rind of lemon. Cook carefully until rice is tender, then 
remove lemon rind, and, when cool, add whipped cream. 
Turn into a wet ring mold, cover securely, and bury in 
ice and rock salt for two hours. Turn out on serving dish, 
fill center with cold, softened and sweetened Blue Ribbon 
peaches. If desired, the peaches may be covered with 
whipped and sweetened cream. 



page ten 



3$fue ${1)071 ff& 



ac 




RECIPE No. 16 



GENOESE PEACH ROLL 

4 eg-gs 

6 tablespoons sugar 



14 cup flour 

1 teaspoon baking powder 
1/2 teaspoon lemon extract 

6 tablespoons butter, melted 

2 cups Blue Ribbon Peaches, sieved 
chopped nut meats or cocoanut 

Soften and slightly sweeten peaches; rub them through 
a sieve and keep them warm. Beat up eggs and sugar five 
minutes, then beat over boiling water ten minutes, take 
from water and beat until cold. Remove beater, sift in 
flour mixed with baking powder, add lemon and butter. 
Mix carefully, turn into a greased and floured jelly roll 
tin and bake in quick oven twelve minutes. Turn out on 
to a paper sprinkled with sugar, spread quickly with peach 
sauce, roll up at once and sprinkle over with chopped 
cocoanut or nut meats. 

If desired, the peach roll may be iced all over with 
chocolate frosting in straight rows. This roll may be 
served hot as a pudding with sweet sauce, or cut in slices 
and served cold with whipped and sweetened cream or 
whipped evaporated milk. 




page eleven 




oac 




RECIPE No. 17 

PEACH AND NUT DAINTIES 



cups Blue Ribbon Peaches 

4 eggs 
Vz cup sugar 
14 cup butter 
1 cup nut meats, chopped 
cream or sweet sauce 

Soften and drain peaches, then divide them into greased fireproof dishes. 
Beat up eggs with sugar; add butter and nut meats and mix thoroughly. 
Spread over peaches and bake in a moderate oven until firm. Decorate with 
a softened Blue Ribbon peach and serve hot or cold with cream or any 
preferred sweet sauce. 



RECIPE No. 18 

PEACH FAVORITES 

1 cup Blue Ribbon Peaches 

stale cake 

2 cups thin custard 

whipped and sweetened cream 
chopped nut meats 
preserved cherries 

Soften and slightly sweeten peaches and cut them in halves. Divide 
peaches into serving dishes; add layer stale cake crumbs, cover with custard 
and set in cool place one hour. Decorate with cream, nut meats and cherries. 

If desired, marshmallow whip or whipped evaporated milk may be substi- 
tuted for cream. 



RECIPE No. 19 

PEACH AND NUT PARFAIT 

l!/2 cups Blue Ribbon Peaches, softened 
1 cup sugar 

1 cup water 

3 egg whites, beaten 

2 cups whipped cream 

1 teaspoon almond extract 

2 teaspoons vanilla extract 
1 cup chopped nut meats 

Chop the peaches. Cook the sugar and water together until the mixture 
spins a heavy thread, then beat thoroughly until cold, beating in the whites of 
eggs, then add the peaches, cream, extracts and nut meats. Blend well together, 
pack in molds, and put in ice and rock rait five hours before serving time. 

A dainty way of serving this parfait is to place in a pretty saucer or plate 
a thin round of stale sponge cake, moistened with the peach juice. Cover this 
with a thick slice of the parfait, hollow it out in the center, fill with three or 
four pieces of softened and sweetened Blue Ribbon peaches, and top with 
whipped and sweetened cream. 

Or mold the parfait in a ring mold, turn out, fill the center with softened, 
sweetened and flavored Blue Ribbon peaches and serve with cream. 

page twelve 





eac 



RECIPE No. 20 . 

PEACH SANDWICHES 
Blue Ribbon Peaches 

(Softened overnight and stewed slowly) 

White bread and butter 
Grated chocolate 

Cut some thin bread and butter, and sprinkle it with grated chocolate. 
Cut the peaches into small pieces. Put a layer of these pieces between two 
pieces of prepared bread, and press well together. Trim and cut into neat 
sandwiches. Serve on lace-edged paper. 

Another Method: Cut brown bread into slices, and toast until delicately 
browned. Spread lightly with butter, and over each slice heap Blue Ribbon 
peaches which have been softened and sweetened to taste. Place a spoonful 
of whipped cream on top, and serve on individual plates. 



RECIPE No. 21 

PEACH BATTER PUDDING 

2 cups Blue Ribbon Peaches 

(Softened overnight and stewed slowly) 

V/2 cups flour 

1 pinch salt 

3 tablespoons sugar 

2 eggs, beaten 
1 cup milk 

Grease a pudding dish, put in the peaches, sprinkle over the sugar and allow 
to stand ten minutes. Sift the flour and salt into a bowl; add eggs and milk, 
and beat until it is smooth and light. Pour the batter over the peaches, cover 
with a buttered paper, and steam steadily one hour. Turn out when done on 
to a hot dish and serve at once with or without whipped and sweetened cream, 
or whipped evaporated milk. 



RECIPE No. 22 

I 

3 cups Blue Ribbon Peaches 

(Softened overnight and stewed slowly) 

% cup butter 

2 cups brown sugar 

2 eggs, beaten 

y^ cup molasses 

1 teaspoon vanilla extract 

4 cups flour 

1 teaspoon baking soda 
14 teaspoon salt 

Have the peaches softened and cooled. Cream butter with sugar; add 
eggs, molasses, vanilla, flour sifted with soda and salt. Mix and roll out 
on a floured baking board, and with this pastry line a long greased baking tin, 
making a deep edge. Fill in with the peaches and bake in a moderate oven 
thirty-five minutes. 

If desired, this pudding may be decorated round the edge with a piping of 
whipped and sweetened cream. 

page thirteen 




eac 





RECIPE No. 23 



PEACH AMBER 

2 cups Blue Ribbon Peaches 

(Softened overnight and stewed slowly) 
4 tablespoons sugar 

3 tablespoons butter 

2 tablespoons lemon juice 

3 eggs, separated 
pie pastry 
cherries 

2 tablespoons powdered sugar 

Line pudding dish with pastry. Rub peaches through 
a sieve, with sugar, butter and lemon juice, stir in yolks 
of eggs, then pour the mixture into prepared dish. Bake 
in a moderate oven until the pastry is cooked and the peach 
mixture set. Beat up whites of eggs to a stiff froth, then 
beat in the powdered sugar and a few drops of lemon juice. 
Pile this meringue on the top of the pudding, decorate 
with cherries, and place in a cool oven to become delicately 
browned. 



page fourteen 



RECIPE No. 24 



PEACH CHOCOLATE LAYER CAKE 

1/2 cup butter 

i.i/2 cups sugar 

34 cup milk 

2 squares chocolate, unsweetened 

2 cups flour 

1/2 teaspoon baking soda 

1 teaspoon cream of tartar 

!/4 teaspoon salt 

3 eggs, separated 

1 teaspoon vanilla extract 

Peach Filling 

1 egg 

% cup sugar 
1/4, cup butter 

2 lemons 

1 cup Blue Ribbon Peaches, softened 

For cake, beat butter and sugar till creamy, add milk, 
chocolate, melted, flour sifted with soda, cream of tartar 
and salt, add vanilla and fold in whites stiffly beaten. Mix 
carefully and bake in two layers. Cool and put together 
with filling made as follows: Into a small saucepan put 
the three yolks of eggs, add whole egg, stir in sugar, add 
butter, grated rinds and strained juice of lemons and stir 
over hot water till thick. Then add peaches which have 
been rubbed through a sieve. Mix well and cool before 
using. 

If desired, this cake be frosted and decorated with 
halves of softened and sweetened Blue Ribbon peaches. 




Page fifteen 



RECIPE No. 25 

PEACH RICE SUNDAE 

10 Blue Ribbon Peaches 
li/i> cups cooked rice 

whipped and sweetened cream 

chopped nut meats 

Wash the peaches and soak them over night. In the morning stew the 
peaches in the same water. Pile the rice in the center of a large plate. Place 
the cooked peaches around the edge of the rice, inverted. Before serving, pour 
peach juice over rice. Fill the peaches with cream and sprinkle nuts over all. 



RECIPE No. 26 

PEACH WAFERS WITH MARSHMALLOW 

Vz CU P Blue Ribbon Peaches, sieved 

1 cup sugar 

2 tablespoons butter 
Yz cup milk 

wafers or crackers 
marshmallows 

Into a saucepan put softened, unsweetened and sieved Blue Ribbon peaches; 
add sugar, butter and milk, stir and cook until the mixture forms a soft ball 
when tested in cold water, or 240 degrees Fahrenheit by candy thermometer, 
then take from fire and beat until thick. Spread between two wafers or 
crackers, spread mixture over the top; place a marshmallow on top of each 
and brown in a quick oven. The oven must be hot enough to brown the 
marshmallows before the filling melts. 

If desired, one tablespoonful of cocoa may be cooked with the peach 
mixture. 



RECIPE No. 27 

PEACH POT PIE 

3 cups Blue Ribbon Peaches, softened and sweetened 
Vs teaspoon powdered nutmeg 

4 cups flour 

1 teaspoon salt 

3 teaspoons baking powder 

yz cup butter 

milk 
. - 4 cups boiling water 

Put the peaches into a deep, greased fireproof dish, and add nutmeg. 
Into a bowl sift flour, salt and baking powder, cut and rub in butter and mix 
to a soft paste with milk. Lay this shortcake on the top of the peaches, pour 
in water, cover closely, and cook forty minutes. Serve hot from the same dish. 

If desired, one-fourth cupful of butter cut in pieces may be put over 
the peaches before covering with the dough. 

page sixteen 




RECIPE No. 28 

PETITS CROUX OF PEACHES 

Blue Ribbon Peaches, softened 
!/2 cup flour 
2 tablespoons butter 
Vz CU P water 
1 egg 
1 egg yolk 

water icing 

whipped cream or whipped evaporated milk 

Sift the flour, put the butter and water into a saucepan, place on the fire 
and, when boiling, stir in the flour very quickly. When the mixture leaves 
the sides and bottom of the pan clean remove it from the fire, and allow it to 
cool slightly. Beat in the eggs one at a time, and then turn out on to a plate 
to cool. Shape into balls, place on a floured baking tin, and bake in a hot oven 
forty-five minutes. Take them out on a sieve to cool, cut each in half, remove 
any soft inside there may be, place a piece of peach in each, and put the two 
halves together again. Cover each with water icing, and when quite set, deco- 
rate them with whipped cream sweetened and flavored to taste. 

RECIPE No. 29 

PEACH PASTRY FINGERS 

Vz lb. pastry 

Blue Ribbon Peaches, softened 

cleaned currants 

butter 

sugar 

powdered mace 
1 egg, beaten 

Roll out pastry into a square and cut it into two pieces; cover one piece 
with peaches cut in small pieces, sprinkle over with mace, currants and sugar, 
dot with tiny pieces of butter and cover with the other piece of pastry. Wet 
the edges of the pastry and press together. Brush over the top with egg, 
perforate with a fork, and bake in a hot oven. Sprinkle over with sugar, cut 
into finger-shaped pieces, and serve hot or cold. 



RECIPE No. 30 

PEACH BREAD CAKE 

2 cups bread dough 
1/2 cup butter 

1 cup sugar 

2 eggs, beaten 

1 cup Blue Ribbon Peaches, softened 
14 cup chopped nut meats 

When making bread reserve two cupfuls of the dough, put into a slightly 
heated bowl, add butter, sugar, eggs and peaches cut into small pieces. Mix 
well, and turn into a shallow greased pan. Allow to rise, and when light, 
brush over with egg or milk, sprinkle over with a little sugar and the nut 
meats. Bake in a moderate oven forty-five minutes. 

page seventeen 




ac 





RECIPE No. 31 



BLUE RIBBON PEACH COBBLER 

3 quarters Blue Ribbon Peaches 

(Softened overnight and stewed slowly) 
2 cups sugar 
flavoring 
butter 
flaky pie crust 

Put the sugar into a saucepan, add three cupfuls of 
the water in which the peaches were softened, boil for 
ten minutes and pour over the softened peaches and allow 
to cool. Flavor to taste. 

Line the sides of a large, deep pudding dish with 
pastry. Put in the peaches, dot the top with tiny pieces 
of butter. Cover with pastry, brush over with beaten egg 
and slash the center crosswise. Bake until the paste is 
nicely browned. Serve hot or cold with sugar and cream. 



page eighteen 



RECIPE No. 32 



STEAMED PEACH PUDDING 

1/2 cup Blue Ribbon Peaches, softened 

1/2 cup butter 

1/2 cup sugar 

2 eggs, beaten 

1 cup flour 

1 teaspoon baking powder 

1 pinch salt 

Cut peaches into small pieces. Beat butter and sugar 
to a cream, add eggs, peaches, flour sifted with baking pow- 
der and salt. Mix well, turn into a greased mold, cover with 
greased paper or lid and steam steadily two hours. Turn 
out and serve with peach syrup heated, or with sweet 
melted butter sauce. 

If desired, two tablespoonfuls each of finely chopped 
nut meats and candied citron peel may be added. 




Page nineteen 





eac 



RECIPE No. 33 

SPICED PEACHES 

7 Ibs. Blue Ribbon Peaches, softened 

3V<> Ibs. sugar 

2 cups vinegar 

1 stick cinnamon 

1 tablespoon whole cloves 

Cut the softened peaches in slices and put them into a preserving kettle 
with the sugar and vinegar. Add the spices tied in a cheesecloth bag. Cook 
to a thick marmalade and seal in small sterilized jars. 

The spice bag should be removed. 

RECIPE No. 34 

PEACH COTTAGE PUDDING 

Blue Ribbon Peaches, softened 
Yz cup butter 
1 cup sugar 
1/2 cup milk 

1 egg, beaten 
cups flour 

teaspoons baking powder 

Have the peaches softened and sweetened to taste. Cream the butter 
and sugar, add milk, egg and flour sifted with baking powder. Mix well, 
and bake twenty-five minutes in a shallow greased pan. Cut in neat squares 
and serve in deep serving dishes, and cover each portion of pudding with a 
liberal quantity of the peaches that have been cut up. 

Make a sauce from one cupful of whipped cream, add one-third cupful 
of powdered sugar and one tablespoonful of the peach syrup. Pour over the 
peaches and serve. 

RECIPE No. 35 

HOT PEACH CAKES 

2 cups Blue Ribbon Peaches, softened 
4 cups flour 

1 pinch salt 
1 yeast cake 
1 A cup sugar 

1 egg, beaten 

2 tablespoons butter 
1 cup milk 

Sift the flour and salt into a bowl; cream the yeast and sugar together 
until liquid. Beat the egg in another bowl. Melt the butter in a saucepan, 
add milk, and let it get lukewarm. Pour this on to the egg. When this egg 
and milk is tepid, stir it on to the yeast, and mix in the flour. Cover with 
a cloth, and put to rise in a warm place one hour. Chop the peaches fine. 
Turn the dough on to a floured baking board, knead it well twenty minutes, 
working in the peaches by degrees as it is kneaded well. Grease a large 
shallow baking tin, turn in the peach cake into it, and place in a warm place 
to rise fifteen minutes. 

Put it into a hot oven, and bake thirty minutes. Take it out of the tin, 
split the cake through, spread it with butter, and dust with sugar. Place the 
laves together again, and cut into fingers. Dish up in a pile on a hot dish, dust 
with sugar, and serve hot. 

page twenty 




eac 




RECIPE No. 36 

PEACHES AND CRANBERRIES 



cups Blue Ribbon Peaches, softened 
2 cups cranberries 
1 cup sugar 
1/2 lemon 
1 cup water 

crisp pastry or biscuits 

Wash cranberries, cut them in halves, add sugar, grated rind and strained 
juice of lemon, soaked peaches and water. Cover and cook slowly until tender. 
Serve with pastry or biscuits. 

If desired, custard or cornstarch pudding may be served with this dish. 

RECIPE No. 37 

PEACH BLANC MANGE 
Blue Ribbon Peaches 

(Softened overnight and stewed slowly) 

1 quart milk 

4 tablespoons sugar 

1/2 cup cornstarch 

1 teaspoon lemon extract 

2 eggs, beaten 

Have the peaches softened and slightly sweetened; put two or three pieces 
into wet individual molds. Heat the milk to boiling point, stir in the sugar 
mixed with the cornstarch, cook carefully twelve minutes, then add extract 
and eggs. Mix well, and divide into the molds. Pour in sufficient to almost, 
but not quite cover the peaches. When set, place in a glass dish and pour 
over some of the peach syrup. 

If desired, these puddings may be served with currant jelly, or a boiled 
custard, or milk, or cream. 

RECIPE No. 38 

PEACH AND PINEAPPLE COMPOTE 



cups Blue Ribbon Peaches 

1 can sliced pineapple, small size 

4 cups cold water 

1 lemon 

1 orange 

1 cup sugar 

2% tablespoons powdered gelatine 

Vz CU P boiling water 

Vz cup chopped nut meats 

whipped and sweetened cream 

Cover the peaches with the cold water; let them soak over night, then cook 
slowly until tender, keeping the quantity of juice at the same level in the 
saucepan. Drain out the peaches and lay them in a wet mold with alternate 
layers of the pineapple drained and diced. To the peach juice on the fire, add 
grated rinds and juices of the lemon and oranges and sugar, cook fifteen min- 
utes, then strain and add gelatine dissolved in the boiling water. Pour over 
the peaches and pineapple and set in the refrigerator over night. Turn out, 
decorate with the nut meats and serve with the cream. 

If desired, marshmallow whip may be substituted for the cream. 

page twenty-one 




eac. 




. 




RECIPE No. 39 



JELLIED PEACHES WITH CREAM 

Blue Ribbon Peaches 

(Softened overnight and stewed slowly) 
41/2 tablespoons powdered gelatine 
1 cup water 
1 cup sugar 
1 lemon 

whipped and sweetened cream 

Mix the gelatine with water, add three cupfuls of the 
water in which peaches were soaked, sugar, grated rind 
and juice of lemon. Heat over the fire until dissolved, then 
strain. Pour a layer of this jelly into a shallow wet mold, 
when firm, lay in a few drained peaches, and let them set, 
then another layer of jelly and peaches, allowing to set, 
and so on until the mold is full. When firm turn out, and 
serve with cream. 



page twenty-two 



iBf 



ue 




eac 




RECIPE No. 40 

PEACH COCKTAILS IN ORANGE BASKETS 



cups Blue Ribbon Peaches 

(Softened overnight and stewed slowly) 

1 cup preserved cherries 

1 grapefruit 

3 tablespoons powdered sugar 

bananas 

large oranges 

Take large oranges of equal size, one for each portion, 
and wash and dry them. Cut to form a basket, with a 
sharp knife, removing pulp carefully so that the handles 
of the baskets may not be broken. Put orange pulp into 
a bowl, add peaches cut in neat pieces, cherries cut in 
halves, grapefruit pulp and juice, sugar and bananas sliced. 
Mix and chill thoroughly. Place orange baskets on serving 
plates, fill with peach mixture and serve. 




page twenty-three 




RECIPE No. 41 

PEACH PUREE 

14, cup cornstarch 

2 cups milk 

2 eggs, separated 

1 cup Blue Ribbon Peaches, sieved 

6 tablespoons sugar 

1 teaspoon lemon juice 

Soften peaches. 

Blend cornstarch with milk, bring to boiling point, and cook three minutes, 
stirring constantly. Take from fire, add yolks of eggs and sugar, mix well, and 
cool. Rub some Blue Ribbon peaches through a sieve to make one cup of puree. 
Add this to cornstarch custard with lemon juice, mix thoroughly and serve. 

If desired, the whites of eggs may be beaten to a stiff froth, then sweetened 
and flavored to taste, and piled on top of puree. 



RECIPE No. 42 

PEACH TART 

2 cups Blue Ribbon Peaches 

(Softened overnight and stewed slowly) 
1 cup flour 
5 tablespoons butter 
Vz cup brown sugar 
1 pinch salt 
1 egg, beaten 

sweet white sauce 

Slightly sweeten peaches, then rub through a coarse sieve. Into bowl sift 
flour and salt, cut and rub in butter, add sugar and egg. Mix and turn out on 
to floured baking board, divide in three equal pieces, roll into neat rounds, lay 
on greased tins and bake to pale brown in moderate oven. Cool and leave 
twenty-four hours. Put together with peaches, cover with white sauce, decorate 
to taste and serve in wedge-shaped pieces. 



RECIPE No. 43 

PEACH LOG CABIN SALAD 

Blue Ribbon Peaches 

(Softened overnight and stewed slowly) 
Bananas 
Orange juice 
Sprigs parsley 
Cream mayonnaise dressing 

Sweeten peaches, flavor them to taste and cut in halves. Peel bananas 
and cut each one in four pieces lengthwise and soak in orange juice thirty 
minutes. Place bananas on individual salad plates in log cabin fashion and 
fill with peaches. Top with dressing and serve very cold, garnished with 
parsley or celery tips. 

. page twenty-four 



RECIPE No. 44 

P 

2 cups Blue Ribbon Peaches 

(Softened overnight and stewed slowly) 
12 macaroons 

3 cups whipped cream 

1 teaspoon lemon extract 

1 cup chopped blanched almonds 

Sweeten the peaches to taste. Soak the macaroons in peach syrup forty- 
minutes. Arrange the macaroons in a glass serving dish, put on them the 
cream sweetened and flavored with the lemon extract. Arrange the peaches 
on the cream, and sprinkle, all with the chopped almonds. 



RECIPE No. 45 

AN APPETIZING PEACH SAUCE FOR MEATS 

2 Ibs. Blue Ribbon Peaches 

(Softened overnight and stewed slowly) 
8 large oranges 

1 onion, chopped 

2 tablespoons mustard 

1 tablespoon grated ginger root 
1/2 lb. seeded raisins 

2 pods red peppers 
1 lb. brown sugar 
6 lemons 

V% CU P salt 

Drain peaches and put them into a saucepan, add grated rinds, pulps and 
juices of oranges and lemons, onion, mustard, ginger root, raisins, peppers, 
sugar and salt. Bring to boiling point, and cook carefully to a pulp. Take 
from fire and rub through a coarse sieve. Let sauce cool and then bottle it. 

This sauce is excellent to serve with fish and cold meats, and it can be 
made at any season of the year. 



RECIPE No. 46 

PEACH SUMMER PUDDING 

Stale bread 

Blue Ribbon Peaches, hot 

Cocoanut or chopped preserved cherries 

Line a well buttered mold or bowl with pieces of bread, cutting a slice of 
bread and stamping out from this a round the size of the bottom of the mold, 
then line the sides with strips of bread the length of the mold and about one 
and one-half inches deep, pressing these well into the mold; pour in suf- 
ficient hot softened and sweetened Blue Ribbon peaches to fill mold, fit a 
round of bread on top, let stand till next day and turn out. Decorate with 
cocoanut or chipped preserved cherries. Serve with milk or cream. 

A variation of this dish can be made as follows: Slice down thinly one 
pound of bread and put this in a greased dish in alternate layers with hot 
cooked and sweetened Blue Ribbon peaches, finishing with the peaches, and 
leave it until cold. Serve with a thin custard. 

page twenty-five 




RECIPE No. 47 



PEACHES IN SWEDISH TIMBALES 



Blue Ribbon Peaches, softened and halved 
Whipped and sweetened cream 
Chopped preserved ginger or cherries 

Batter for Cases 

1 egg, beaten 

i/& cup milk 

1 teaspoon oil 

1 cup flour 

14 teaspoon salt 

Sweeten and flavor some Blue Ribbon peaches to taste. 
Divide peaches into timbale cases, top with cream and 
serve as a first course decorated with ginger or cherries. 

Plain and fluted irons, mounted on a long handle, are 
used for shaping the cases. Add milk to egg, stir in oil 
and flour sifted with salt. Beat well and leave thirty 
minutes. Dip timbale iron into plenty of smoking hot 
fat, let remain two or three minutes, then drain and dip 
into batter to one-half inch of top of iron; return to fat 
and hold there until batter is crisp and a pale yellow 
color, take from iron and drain on paper. These little 
pastry cases may be fried the day before they are wanted 
and reheated in the oven just before using. 



page twenty-six 



RECIPE No. 48 



DELICIOUS PEACH PIE 
* 1 cup Blue Ribbon Peaches 

(Softened overnight and stewed slowly) 

pie crust 
2 eggs, beaten 
y% cup sugar 
l /2 CU P butter 

1 cup flour 

y% teaspoon baking powder 
!/2 teaspoon almond extract 

2 tablespoons cream 

Line deep pie plate with pie crust, into this place 
peaches which have been softened, slightly sweetened and 
cut in pieces. Beat butter and sugar until creamy, add 
eggs, flour sifted with baking powder, add extract and 
cream. Beat well and spread on top of peaches. Bake 
in moderately hot oven thirty minutes. Serve hot or cold. 




page twenty-seven 



ue ffy&kon ff&ac 




RECIPE No. 49 

FRENCH PEACH CUSTARD 

1 quart milk 

5 eggs, separated 
4 tablespoons sugar 

2 cups Blue Ribbon Peaches 

(Softened overnight and stewed slowly) 

2 tablespoons chopped preserved ginger 
pink sugar 

Sweeten peaches to taste and place them in a glass dish. Put milk into 
upper pan of a double boiler, reserving one-half cupful, and make very hot 
over the fire. Beat up yolks of eggs with sugar, add reserved milk and stir 
this into hot milk. Stir constantly until custard thickens, then take from fire 
to cool, add pinch of salt to whites of eggs, beat until very stiff, and put them 
into a colander. Pour boiling water carefully through and over them till 
they are quite firm. Put layer of custard over peaches, then layer of whites, 
and spoonful of ginger, then repeat until dish is full, having last layer of 
whites. 

Over this, sprinkle some pink sugar and set dish away to get very cold 
before serving. 

RECIPE No. 50 

PEACH ICE CREAM 

1 cup sugar 
% cup water 
3 egg whites, beaten 

1 tablespoon orange extract 
~\.y% cups Blue Ribbon Peaches 

(Softened overnight and stewed slowly) 

2 cups cream, thick 

Boil sugar and water together until they thread. Pour slowly over stiffly 
beaten whites of eggs and continue beating until cool. Add cream whipped 
stiff, flavoring and peaches rubbed through a sieve. Freeze and serve with 
cake or wafers. 

An unusual way of serving Blue Ribbon Peach Ice Cream is as follows: 
Cut tops from fresh cream puffs, fill with the ice cream. Invert on serving 
dish and cover with peach sauce. Decorate tops with rosettes of whipped and 
sweetened cream and a piece of softened sweetened peach. 

RECIPE No. 51 

PEACH GATEAU EN SURPRISE 

1 chocolate cake, square or round 
chocolate frosting 
Blue Ribbon Peaches 

(Softened overnight and stewed slowly) 

whipped and sweetened cream 
ciystallized rose leaves or violets 

Cut off a slice from top of cake, scoop out inside, being careful to leave 
about an inch at the bottom, and ice with chocolate frosting. Fill center 
with Blue Ribbon peaches softened and sweetened to taste; cover with cream 
and decorate with rose leaves or violets. 

page twenty-eight 



RECIPE No. 52 

PEACH AND APPLE MERINGUE 

2 cups Blue Ribbon Peaches 

(Softened overnight and stewed slowly) 

8 apples, uniform size 

1 cup sugar 
1/2 lemon 

4 egg whites 

3 tablespoons chopped nut meats 

2 tablespoons powdered sugar 

Prepare peaches and sweeten them slightly. Peel and core apples. Put 
them into a stewpan with sugar, one cup of the peach juice, and grated rind 
and juice of lemon and cook carefully to a sauce. 

Put peaches into serving dish, add apple sauce piling it up in oval shape. 
Beat up whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add powdered sugar, beat five minutes 
and spread over sauce, sprinkle with nut meats and set in moderate oven for 
apples to reheat a little and for meringue to color a light brown. 

RECIPE No. 53 

FRIED PEACH PIES 

2 cups Blue Ribbon Peaches 

1/2 teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons sugar 

1/2 teaspoon powdered ginger 
1/2 teaspoon powdered nutmeg 

pastry 
1 egg, beaten 

hot fat 

Soften peaches in water for three hours, drain and renew water, and cook 
slowly for thirty minutes. Drain, rub through a sieve, and add salt, sugar and 
spices. Cook carefully until thick. Roll pastry out, cut into large circles, place 
a spoonful of peach puree in center of each circle, wet edges of pastry with 
cold water, turn one-half over peaches pressing edges closely together. Brush 
over with egg, fry in plenty of smoking hot fat for six minutes, drain, sprinkle 
with sugar and serve hot. 

RECIPE No. 54 

PEACH OMELET SOUFFLE 

1 cup Blue Ribbon Peaches, hot 

6 eggs, separated 

4 tablespoons sugar 

1 teaspoon grated lemon rind 

1 pinch salt 

2 tablespoons butter 

Soften and sweeten peaches, then cut them into small pieces. Beat yolks 
of eggs with sugar until light, and add lemon rind. Beat up whites of eggs 
with salt until stiff and fold them into yolk mixture. Melt butter in a frying 
pan, pour in mixture and place pan over a slow fire just to set the mixture, 
place the pan in a moderate oven and bake until souffle is ready. Turn out 
on to a hot sugared dish, cover with peaches and serve at once. 

page twenty-nine 



RECIPE No. 55 

BLUE RIBBON PEACHES WITH CHOCOLATE SAUCE 

Blue Ribbon Peaches, softened 

Rose or almond extract 

thin slices of sponge cake 
1/2 cup sugar 
1/2 cup water 

4 squares sweetened chocolate, grated 
Vz cup thick cream 
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract 

Have in readiness some softened, slightly sweetened Blue Ribbon peaches 
and flavored to taste with rose or almond extract. Put two or three slices of 
sponge cake on each serving dish, pile four or five of the peaches on top of 
each and serve with sauce poured over. To make sauce, boil sugar and water 
ten minutes, then stir in slowly chocolate and allow to dissolve smoothly, over 
hot water. Stir in cream and vanilla. 

RECIPE No. 56 

STEAMED PEACH BREAD 

1 cup cornmeal 
boiling water 
1 cup sour milk 
1/2 cup molasses 

1 teaspoon salt 

2 cups graham flour 

1 teaspoon baking soda 

1 cup Blue Ribbon Peaches, softened 

Scald corn meal with sufficient boiling water to moisten well. Cool, add 
milk, molasses, flour sifted with salt and soda and stir in peaches cut in 
pieces. Divide into two greased baking powder cans, cover and steam steadily 
for three hours. Turn out and serve hot. 

This bread is delicious and wholesome. 

RECIPE No. 57 

PEACHES WITH FRIED BREAD SAVORY 

1 cup Blue Ribbon Peaches 

stale bread, fried 
1 large slice ham 
1 sage leaf 

1 tablespoon sugar 

2 tablespoons vinegar 

2 tablespoons seedless raisins 

Cut bread into slices, removing crusts. Fry bread in hot fat, arrange it 
on a hot platter and keep hot. Into a small saucepan put raisins, ham chopped 
fine, sage crushed, sugar and vinegar. Stir over the fire with a wooden spoon 
until ingredients form a syrup. Have peaches hot and slightly sweetened, place 
them on the bread and pour sauce over and around them. Serve hot with cold 
meats of any kind. 

page thirty 



RECIPE No. 58 

BLUE RIBBON PEACH FRITTERS 

2 tablespoons sugar 

4 tablespoons butter 
1 lemon 

1 cup water 
114 cups flour 

5 eggs 

Blue Ribbon Peaches, softened 

Into a small saucepan put sugar, butter, grated lemon rind and water and 
cook ten minutes, quickly add flour, stir until smooth, take from fire, and add 
eggs, one by one. Beat thoroughly, dip peaches in this batter, and fry in 
plenty of smoking hot fat. Drain, sprinkle with powdered sugar, and serve 
hot. 

RECIPE No. 59 

PEACH AND COCOANUT PUDDING 

1 cup milk 

1 cup cocoanut 

4 tablespoons sugar 

3 tablespoons butter, melted 

4 tablespoons bread crumbs 

1 cup Blue Ribbon Peaches, chopped 

1 teaspoon grated lemon rind 

2 eggs, beaten 

cream or sweet sauce 

Pour milk into a bowl, add cocoanut, and allow to soak ten minutes, add 
sugar, butter, crumbs, peaches softened, lemon rind, and eggs. Mix together, 
turn into a well buttered pudding dish and bake in a very moderate oven one 
hour. Dust with powdered sugar and serve hot with cream or any preferred 
sweet sauce. 

RECIPE No. 60 

PEACH AND NUT CAKE 

1V& cups Blue Ribbon Peaches, softened 

1 cup boiling water 

1 teaspoon baking soda 

1 cup sugar 

2 tablespoons butter 

1 egg, beaten 

2 cups flour 
1 pinch salt 

1 cup chopped nut meats 

Drain peaches thoroughly and cut them into small pieces; add water and 
soda and allow to stand until cool. Beat sugar and butter until creamy, add 
egg, one-half of peaches, one-half of flour, then remainder of peaches and 
flour, with nut meats and salt. Mix well, turn into greased and floured cake 
tin and bake in moderate oven one and one-half hours. 

This unusual cake is excellent for the children's lunch box, and, if 
desired, it may be frosted. 

page thirty-one 



BLUE RIBBON PEACHES are packed by 
the California Peach Growers, Inc., of Fresno, 
California, a co-operative marketing organi- 
zation consisting of 6500 growers, who have 
banded themselves together for the purpose 
of selling their own crops. 

The object of the Association has been to 
secure wide distribution for peaches under 
the BLUE RIBBON BRAND, which means 
quality, and to place the fruit in the hands 
of the consumer at a reasonable price. 
Through the marketing company, the 
growers are enabled, very largely, to elim- 
inate speculative profits between the producer 
and the consumer. 

The growers, who are thus conscientiously 
trying to improve the quality of the fruit, 
and to market it economically, deserve the 
support of the consuming public. 

Ask for dried peaches under the BLUE 
RIBBON BRAND. They are packed in san- 
itary cartons, as well as in bulk. 



LITHOSRAPH CO.. S. F. 



RIBBON 




CALIFORNIA PEACH GROWERS (!NC) 



CALirORNIA . 



