THEJ.F.HARTZCO. 

LIMITED 

PHYSICIftHS'StlPPUES 

TORONTO. 




'. i a ^ i t 
I islli 

-~^ Li \ 




M Pi- 
tt 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE 
AND SURGERY 



Ox. 



BY 

HARRY E. MOCK, B.S., M.D., F.A.C.S. 

Assistant Professor of Industrial Medicine and Surgery at Rush Medical 
College; Attending Surgeon, St. Luke's Hospital; Visiting Surgeon to 
Washington Boulevard Hospital; Chief Surgeon to Sears, Roebuck & 
Company; Fellow Institute of Medicine, Chicago; Lieutenant-Colonel, 
Medical Corps, U. S. A. 



WITH 210 ILLUSTRATIONS 



- 3- 



PHILADELPHIA AND LONDON 



W. B. SAUNDERS COMPANY 

1920 



Copyright, 1919, by W. B. Saunders Company 



Reprinted November, 1920 



PRINTED IN AMERICA 

PRESS OF 

W, B. SAUNDERS COMPANY 
PHILADELPHIA 



To 
MARY MINERVA JACKSON MOCK 

and 
GOLDA TAYLOR MOCK 

MY MOTHER 

and 

MY WIFE 
This book is affectionately dedicated. 



PREFACE 

IN presenting this book to the medical profession, and t6 those 
laymen interested in the subject, I am quite conscious of the fact that 
it is a deviation from the usual character of a text-book on medicine 
or surgery. Instead of dealing with the pathology, diagnosis and 
treatment of specific diseases or the individualistic practice of medicine, 
I have endeavored to set forth the reasons for, and the methods of 
a form of group medicine which has stood the test of years, and proven 
its practicability in many of the large industries of the country. 

The conservation of the lives and limbs of the working people 
^nd the reclamation of those disabled in the daily strife have become 
a definite program in the industrial world. The humanizing influence 
of this work has caused many an employer to consider other means 
of contributing to the health, comfort and contentment of his working 
force. Wherever these principles have been adopted, the industry 
has been rewarded by greater efficiency among its employees, with 
a corresponding increase in production. 

With the growth of this form of medicine the field has extended 
into the living and home conditions of the working forces, gradually 
resulting in closer co-operation with the public health authorities. 
In fact, it has become a vital factor in public health. To-day the 
achievements of industrial medicine and surgery are one of the 
strongest arguments in favor of a national health program. 

It is less than ten years since the majority of leaders in our pro- 
fession could see naught but a questionable future, a sort of lowering 
of the prescribed standards, for those physicians who entered the 
^eld of the company doctor. To the pioneers in this new specialty, 
however, it seemed that these industries offered a veritable human 
laboratory where the constant supervision of the health of thousands 
of employees would enable the development of a real system of pre- 
ventive medicine and preventive surgery. It was their first glimpse 
of group medicine, a form of practice radically different from that 
taught in the medical colleges and learned during the one or two years 
of hospital interneship following graduation. 

The comprehensive systems of industrial medicine and surgery 
established in many industries to-day were the result of a gradual devel- 
opment. The glimpse grew into a vision the vision broadened with 
*ach subsequent year. No one man nor no one establishment can 

7 



8 PREFACE 

claim the honor of creating this work, for a number of concerns 
throughout the country engaged competent physicians and surgeons 
who simultaneously developed these new principles in medicine. 

The community of purpose drew together these physicians. By 
frequent consultations, exchange of ideas and experiences, and by the 
comparison of results, the vision of each individual broadened and 
the scope of the work expanded. It would be extremely remiss on 
my part to refrain from acknowledging with sincere gratitude the 
great assistance which I have received from many of the leaders, 
both medical and lay, in this work. Because of our close association, 
I am especially indebted to Drs. Otto Geier, C. W. Schereschewsky, 
Francis Patterson, W. Irving Clark, C. W. Farnum, Wilbur Post, 
Thomas Crowder, C. D. Selby, A. M. Harvey, and James Britton. 

During a ^period of nine years as chief surgeon of one of the largest 
industries of Chicago, I kept careful notes of the development of this 
form of medical practice as well as complete records of the results 
obtained. For the last two years of that period I taught this new 
specialty to the students at Rush Medical College, where a night 
clinic on Industrial Medicine and Surgery was established. This 
afforded an excellent opportunity to study conditions in other indus- 
tries lacking adequate health services. I am greatly indebted to my 
associates in this college work and especially to Dr. John Ellis, Dr. 
John Dodson, Dean of Rush Medical College, and Mr. John E. Ransom, 
Superintendent of the Central Free Dispensary. 

This book endeavors to present these various experiences. It i& 
based upon the practical application of every principle herein de- 
tailed not only in this one industry but in many of the other large 
concerns of the country. With the growth of this work of human 
maintenance in industry, it is becoming more and more apparent 
that our medical schools must correlate these broad social and eco- 
nomic principles with their teaching of medicine. Therefore, while it 
will be of value to those physicians engaged in industrial practice, it 
is felt that such a book will be especially valuable to the coming genera- 
tion of medical students. As far as possible highly technical language 
has been avoided in order to extend its usefulness to the layman to- 
those employers, industrial engineers, social workers, and labor leaders 
who are honestly striving to improve the condition of those who must 
produce and provide. 

To those pioneer industries having the foresight to establish and 
stimulate the growth of a genuine health service among their employees, 
the world is everlastingly indebted. Physicians working in this field 
could have made little progress without the moral and financial back- 
ing of these employers. No one realizes this better than the author. 



PREFACE 



9 



The opportunity of publicly acknowledging this fact cannot be re- 
sisted. For all that has been accomplished in their medical depart- 
ment, the greatest credit must be given to the present management 
o, Sears, Roebuck & Company. 

To the ten doctors and twelve nurses on their medical staff, I 
wish to express my deepest gratitude for their loyalty and co-opera- 
tion during these years of serving together. I am especially grateful 
to Dr. Edward A. Oliver, my associate for seven years, and to Miss 
May Middleton, the Superintendent of nurses, both of whom have 
rendered invaluable assistance. 

A number of my colleagues in other industries have been unusually 
generous in furnishing data and other material and every effort has 
been made to properly accredit these and all other references. 

To the publishers and those others who have so willingly co-operated 
in the preparation of this book, I will always be exceedingly grateful. 

HARRY E. MOCK. 

122 S. MICHIGAN AVE., 
CHICAGO, ILL. 



CONTENTS 




CHAPTER I 

PAOB 

HEALTH SUPERVISION 17 

CHAPTER II 
THE PLANT HOSPITAL OR DOCTOR'S OFFICE 33 

CHAPTER III 
THE MEDICAL STAFF 43 

CHAPTER IV 
THE NURSE IN INDUSTRY 51 

CHAPTER V 
EMPLOYEES DENTAL SERVICE 60 

CHAPTER VI 
A PRACTICAL SYSTEM OF INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 67 

CHAPTER VII 
BENEFITS AND PROFITS OF THE MEDICAL DEPARTMENT 79 

CHAPTER VIII 
COST OF THE MEDICAL DEPARTMENT 90 

CHAPTER IX 
SUPERVISION OF THE HEALTH OF THE MANAGERIAL STAFF 98 

CHAPTER X 

RECREATION AND EXERCISE AS RELATED TO SUPERVISION OF HEALTH OF EM- 
PLOYEES 102 

CHAPTER XI 

FOOD 109 

11 



12 CONTENTS 

CHAPTER XII 

PAGE 

RECORDS 116 

CHAPTER XIII 
INDUSTRIAL HEALTH SERVICE 125 



PART II 
PREVENTION 

CHAPTER XIV 
PREVENTIVE MEDICINE AND PREVENTIVE SURGERY IN INDUSTRIES. 133 

CHAPTER XV 
INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE: A GENERAL OUTLINE OP THE PROBLEMS . 141 

. CHAPTER XVI 
INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE: SPECIFIC PROBLEMS 151 

CHAPTER XVII 
INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE AND PRODUCTION 



CHAPTER XVIII 
EPIDEMIOLOGY IN INDUSTRY 



CHAPTER XIX 



178 



HEALTH HAZARDS IN OCCUPATIONS 201 

CHAPTER XX 

THE NATIONAL SAFETY COUNCIL . 

oil) 

CHAPTER XXI 

ACCIDENT PREVENTION 

318 

CHAPTER XXII 

THE SPIRIT OF PREVENTION . 

335 

CHAPTER XXIII 
THE INPLUKNCE.OF NEW EMPLOYEES AND "SPEEDING-UP" ON ACCIDENT RATE 351 



CONTENTS 13 

PART III 

INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE 
CHAPTER XXIV 

PAGE 

MEDICAL EXAMINATION OF EMPLOYEES 355 

CHAPTER XXV 
MEDICAL EXAMINATION OF APPLICANTS FOB WORK 370 

CHAPTER XXVI 
EXAMINATION AND CORRECTION OF EYE CONDITIONS . . 386 

CHAPTER XXVII 
MEDICAL TREATMENT OF EMPLOYEES ... 391 

CHAPTER XXVIII 

WOMEN IN INDUSTRY 405 

CHAPTER XXIX 
THE TUBERCULOUS EMPLOYEE 429 

CHAPTER XXX 

RECLAIMING THE TUBERCULOUS SOLDIERS FROM THE MILITARY AND INDUSTRIAL 

ARMIES 461 

PART IV 

INDUSTRIAL SURGERY 

CHAPTER XXXI 
THE SURGICAL DISPENSARY, STAFF AND EQUIPMENT; PREVENTIVE SURGERY 475 

CHAPTER XXXII 
FIRST AID 492 

CHAPTER XXXin 
EMERGENCY SURGERY ^H 

CHAPTER XXXIV 
THE SUBSEQUENT OR PERMANENT TREATMENT OF CERTAIN INJURIES .... 542 



14 CONTENTS 

CHAPTER XXXV 

PAGE 

X-RAY IN INDUSTRIAL SURGERY 56g 

CHAPTER XXXVI 
HAND INFECTIONS 574 

CHAPTER XXXVII 
FRACTURES ggg 

CHAPTER XXXVIII 
OPEN TREATMENT OF FRACTURES 529 

CHAPTER XXXIX 
AMPUTATIONS gog 

CHAPTER XL 
THE EMPLOYEE'S FOOT 






PART V 
COMPENSATION. INSURANCE. MEDICOLEGAL PHASES 

CHAPTER XLI 
EMPLOYEES' COMPENSATION FROM THE MEDICAL VIEWPOINT 667 

CHAPTER XLII 

COMPENSABLE HERNIA . 



690 

CHAPTER XLIII 
THE COINCIDENCE OF ACCIDENTS WITH DISEASE . 7 07 



719 

CHAPTER XLV 

HEALTH INSURANCE . . 

.... 740 



CHAPTER XLVI 
EMPLOYEES' MUTUAL BENEFIT ASSOCIATIONS. 



760 



CONTENTS 15 

PART VI 

RECONSTRUCTION 

CHAPTER XLVII 

PAGE 

AMERICANIZATION OF THE FOREIGN EMPLOYEE 769 

CHAPTER XLVIII 
HUMAN CONSERVATION AND RECLAMATION OP THE DISABLED 776 

BIBLIOGRAPHY. . 801 

INDEX . . 825 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE 
AND SURGERY 



PART I 
INDUSTRIAL HEALTH SERVICE 



CHAPTER I 
HEALTH SUPERVISION 
EMPLOYEES' SERVICE DEPARTMENTS 

Industrial medicine and surgery, the new specialty, deals with the 
human maintenance problem in industry. Our modern industrial 
concerns have regularly employed experts to study their expensive, 
complicated machines in order to preserve their mechanism and obtain 
their maximum efficiency. The human machine alone has been 
neglected. 

It is true that company surgeons have existed for many years but 
rarely did the scope of their work extend beyond the repair of injuries. 
This new specialty in medicine not only furnishes adequate medical 
and surgical care when necessary, but includes all measures bearing 
upon the health, welfare and working ability of employees. 

Supervision of Health of Employees has become an essential 
part of the organization of many large industries. The past decade 
has witnessed the birth, in this country, of this one of the most im- 
portant of human conservation movements, and the last four years 
have seen it expand into a great, live issue with far-reaching influence. 
Since its birth, many other issues offering service to the great mass of 
wage-earners have been created. Chief among these are the Mutual 
Benefit Associations, the Safety Movement, and Employees' Compensa- 
tion Acts. The latter still is an ugly child in many respects, but gives 
promise of a great future. Its brothers, Employees' Health Insurance, 
Old Age Insurance and Insurance against Non-employment have not 
as yet been born, but this new specialty is rapidly demonstrating 
their need. 

2 17 



18 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



A comprehensive system of the supervision of the health of em- 
ployees must include every branch of preventive medicine and surgery 
and of remedial medicine and surgery, as well as industrial hygiene and 
sanitation. These are primarily medical functions and must be ad- 
ministered by the medical department of an industry. 

Many other activities have been developed in our best organized 
industries, however, which have a direct bearing on the comfort, 
convenience, and state of mind of the employees, and therefore have 
the closest relationship to health supervision. Recognition of this 
fact has caused the creation of Employees' Service Departments in 
several concerns. 

SUPERVISION or HEALTH r EMPLOYES OR 
HUMAN MAINTENANCE DEPART. 




FIG. 1. A successful plan of organization in one industry. 

Usually a broad-visioned business man, or occasionally a trained 
sociologist, has been placed at the head of such a department. It is 
his duty to co-ordinate all these activities so that the greatest service 
will be given to the employees. The actual work of the medical 
department is under the doctor, the safety work is under the safety 
engineer, the employment manager attends to employment. In other 
words, the functions of these various services are decentralized as to 
activities but are centralized under one head as to policy, adminis- 
tration, etc. (Fig. 1). 

In at least three large concerns all these functions have been 
placed directly under the supervision of the chief of the medical staff. 
The argument in favor of this is that the broadly trained physician, 
with a proper economic and social sense, because of his close relation- 
ship to the employees, is the best manager for such a department. 



HEALTH SUPERVISION 19 

Time alone will prove which is the best plan. The tendency to 
give more and more power to the medical director is growing, and 
certainly demonstrates that all things which increase the health of 
employees must increase dividends to the employer. It also demon- 
strates that the vision of the physician in industry must constantly 
expand, and he must become fully cognizant of those activities which 
can well be called the adjuncts to health supervision. 

This fact is positive, namely, all activities which deal directly with 
the health and safety of the employees should be placed under the 
medical director, and those functions which look to the comfort and 
welfare of the employees, although administered by various lay 
managers, must be closely co-ordinated with, and often supervised by 
the health department. In fact, everything about the industry which 
in any way touches the health problem should be subject to the ap- 
proval or criticism of the medical staff if the greatest benefits from 
such a system are to be obtained. 

What are the activities of an Employees' Service Department? 
From a medical standpoint they can be divided into those services 
which deal directly with health supervision, and those which are 
adjuncts to health supervision, as follows: 

1. Health Supervision of Employees : 
(a) Medical Service. 

(6) Surgical Service. 

(c) Dental Service. 

(d) Nursing Service. 

(e) Safety Service. 

(/) Sanitation Service. 

2. Adjuncts to Health Supervision: 
(a) Employment Service. 

(6) Restaurant Service. 

(c) Recreation Service. 

(d) Welfare Service. 

(e) Insurance Service. 

(f) Banking and Loan Service. 

(0) Housing and Community Service. 

To the internist, surgeon, or the regular family physician, it is 
quite evident that this new type of physician, working in industry, is 
confronted with many problems which have not been included in the 
usual medical curriculum. Let me assure you, however, that all 
these services in the working homes of your patients have a decided 
bearing on their health. Recognition of the relationship between 
conditions in industry and the health of the people will become more 
and more essential in the teaching of medicine in the future. 



20 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

Details of this work the general principles, the purposes and the 
results of all the functions of industrial medicine and surgery, will be 
given in subsequent chapters. This discussion will be limited to 
outlining the scope of health supervision. I want to emphasize that 
the plan of supervision which I am about to offer is the ideal for which 
all company surgeons should strive an ideal to which no industrial 
concern as yet has fully attained. 

The prevention of sickness, accidents and inefficiency among 
employees is the purpose of all forms of health supervision. A general 
survey of the component parts is the first step in prevention, be it 
prevention of fires, accidents, burglaries, war, flood, or what not. 
Thus, the first step should be a general survey of the working place; 
the mechanical appliances therein; the employees, individually and 
in a group; and even the employers and their attitude and state of 
mind toward supervision of health. The physician entering an 
industry where this work has not been in vogue will usually have to 
develop this proper mental attitude on the part of both the employer 
and the employed. 

MEDICAL SERVICE 

The medical service in a properly conducted health supervision 
plan, includes those activities dealing directly with the equation 
of health in the employees and the treatment of their diseased 
conditions. 

One of the first requirements in the general survey of this field is 
the complete physical examination of every employee, and, when 
practicable, a periodical re-examination of these employees, approx- 
imately every six months. I qualify the re-examinations, because, 
whereas in a plant employing only a few hundred people this can be 
done with a very small medical staff, in one employing ten or fifteen 
thousand people it would take a staff of four doctors doing nothing 
else to re-examine the force every six months. Such a plan would 
interfere with the work of the employees to the extent that few man- 
agements would consent to this unusual precaution. 

The medical examination should be complete in every case, both 
male and female. The history in each case can be obtained by a 
trained nurse, who can also take the temperature, pulse, height and 
weight of the employee before he is sent in to the doctor. The phys- 
ical examination can be made while a qualified laboratory assistant 
is analyzing the urine, the specimen being obtained just before the em- 
ployee is sent to the examining room. Next, the dentist and the 
nose-throat-and-eye specialist examine the individual in turn. 

Provided plenty of office space is available and sufficient and 
efficient assistance is given, this examination can be completed in 25 



HEALTH SUPERVISION 21 

minutes. This includes the time necessary for disrobing and dressing 
. again, and the short wait for his turn. Unless some condition is found 
which requires careful study, this examination need not take over 
ten minutes of any of the doctors' or nurses' time before whom the 
employee appears for each step in his examination. 

Many tunes a day individual cases will present themselves which 
require considerably more of the doctor's time; for instance, 
certain diseased conditions must be carefully explained; advice appli- 
cable to each case must be given; the doctor must ascertain if the 
proper line of treatment is being followed in a certain case, and, if not, 
must arrange for it; questions must be taken up with the employees' 
manager pertaining to change of work, etc. ; matters of personal hygiene 
must be discussed; and numerous other factors dealing with the per- 
sonal equation between the doctor and the employee must be met 
and carefully considered. In no instance should this medical super- 
vision attain such a high plane of efficiency, as regards speed and the 
number of employees examined per day, as to lose sight of this personal 
element the benefit of the personal contact of the employees with the 
doctor. 

Many company physicians may object to such a thorough physical 
examination of employees as is here outlined, but, remember, this 
plan is based upon the assumption that the industry wants the same 
efficiency in its human maintenance department which it demands in 
all other departments, and efficiency means thoroughness. The 
inspection of employees and choosing only those for physical examina- 
tion who seem below par is better than no medical supervision; the 
physical examinations usually made on girls, namely, the head, neck 
and chest, have given wonderful results in supervising the health of 
these female employees, but to obtain the maximum of results a 
complete survey of the entire body of each individual is necessary 
in order not to overlook anything which might be detrimental to 
health. 

The purpose of a complete physical survey must not be to eliminate 
the unfit from the working force, but must be done absolutely from 
the standpoint of supervising the health of the entire group. Thus, it 
is essential to ascertain the condition of health of each individual to 
discover diseases in the earliest stages, while still curable; to find any- 
one suffering from a communicable contagious disease, and to seek 
out the employee chronically diseased yet still able to work and re- 
commend for him a position where he can be efficient without 
hastening the course of his disease. 

Until such time as the State takes up its burden, employers should 
make adequate provision to render proper medical care and sufficient 
financial aid to him who is forced to stop work because of this system 



22 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

of supervision; otherwise, the very purpose of such a system will be 
defeated, namely, the restoration to health in the shortest time possible. 
Lack of money and the worry over debts are great drawbacks to the 
regaining of health. 

Of equal importance with the medical examination and re-examina- 
tion of the old working force is the thorough examination of every 
applicant for work; in fact, this is just as essential as keeping the work- 
ing place sanitary when once you have removed all unsanitary con- 
ditions. The examinations of applicants, however, should not be 
made for the purpose of choosing only the strongest, healthiest 
workers, but to protect the old working force from any applicant 
who might have some contagious disease. An excellent means is also 
given for supervision of the health of these prospective employees by 
preventing those with serious diseased conditions from going to work, 
for their own protection; and by choosing the proper type of work 
for those with chronic diseases which do not totally unfit them for 
employment. 

I have talked with two national labor officials, and they assure me 
that if all industries would approach this procedure from as humane a 
standpoint, as above outlined, they would thoroughly endorse the 
plan. 

Medical treatment of diseased employees is still a mooted question. 

The treatment of conditions directly the result of occupations, for 
which the employer is considered responsible, is almost universally 
recognized as a logical part of the work of the company surgeon ; but 
the care of the workman injured outside the plant, or whose sickness 
has no connection with his work rightfully belongs in the opinion of 
many to the family physician. To give the best results to both em- 
ployees and employer, complete remedial measures must go hand in 
hand with the work of investigation and supervision. 

This medical and surgical treatment has already been instituted in 
a few industries, and the results are proving its worth. Most medical 
staffs furnish complete surgical care to those injured while at work and 
the more rapid recoveries, fewer permanent disabilities, and lower 
death rate furnish the strongest arguments in favor of such a plan. 
Every company surgeon has seen the most deplorable surgical treat- 
ment given to workmen injured while at home. Many of these home 
accident cases are neglected by the employee himself until some severe 
infection or other complication finally forces him to consult his family 
doctor. Even then, many family doctors, untrained in emergency 
surgery, will give inadequate treatment, for example, making a small 
incision in an infected area when a wide-open incision is indicated. 
As a result, the disability of the outside accident case is often pro- 
longed and frequently a permanent deformity occurs which could 



HEALTH SUPERVISION 23 

have been prevented by the prompt, early treatment of the accident 
by the surgical mechanism of the industry. Many surgeons are 
daily interfering in the care of some home accident case in order to 
prevent these dire results. 

Almost the same situation exists in the medical cases. When 
a diseased condition is found, the employee is advised as to the best line 
of treatment and then is referred to his family physician. Often he 
receives the very best of care from the latter, again only mediocre 
care, and occasionally he neglects to follow the advice to consult his 
doctor, waiting until the condition becomes so serious that he is forced 
to do so. In many instances the case is treated without any effort at a 
diagnosis being made. Time and again a blood examination or a 
stomach analysis would show the true state of affairs and would 
indicate the proper line of treatment, whereas the employee is taking 
pills from a "blind doctor," or is receiving electrical treatment from 
a quack. 

Daily the medical staffs of industries are interfering in the treat- 
ment of sick employees. They are operating more and more on 
employees who have some surgical condition, when careful inquiry 
shows that they cannot afford to obtain proper surgical and hospital 
care, or when it is apparent that the condition is being neglected by 
the family physician. 

A few industries have assumed the care of all cases of tuberculosis 
found among their workmen. Most of these are sent to sanatoria. 
Some refuse this care and choose home treatment under the family 
physician. A comparison of the results between this home treatment 
and sanatorium treatment proves that these concerns have saved 
lives by taking complete charge of the tuberculous employees. 

Some industrial medical staffs are now treating all syphilitic and 
gonorrheal cases, with the result that scientific care is curing the early 
cases, and, best of all, society is protected. The old plan of firing the 
venereals and leaving many of them to the mercy of the quack is no 
longer practiced. 

Those with defective vision are now being cared for by competent 
ophthalmologists, instead of allowing the employee to go to the corner 
optician for their glasses. In 1915 the writer found 799 cases of defect- 
ive vision, and cared for 179 of these, the remainder going without 
care or to whomsoever they saw fit. In 1916 he found 1014 cases of 
defective vision and corrected 930. Supervision of these shows that 
they have remained corrected, and the increased efficiency resulting 
therefrom has far more than paid for the cost of this service. 

These examples therefore prove that, hand in hand with the super- 
vision of the health of employees, there must be proper medical and 
surgical treatment rendered the two are almost inseparable. I 



24 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

do not mean to insinuate that the medical men of an industry are 
better physicians than the average family physician, but I do know 
that systematic care by a unit of medical men, each trained especially 
in some particular line, will give the surest, quickest and best results. 

NURSING SERVICE 

One of the chief aids in the supervision of the health of employ- 
ees is a well-trained staff of industrial nurses. Special training is 
necessary before any nurse can learn all the ramifications of the work 
of an industrial nurse. Through her the employers can show their 
friendly interest in the force. The small merchant, with five or six 
employees, can personally visit and offer aid to one of his men when 
the latter is sick or in trouble; but the large employer, with several 
thousand workmen, must depend upon some other agency in order 
to show his friendly interest in their welfare. 

Thus, every industry should have a sufficient number of these 
nurses to visit each sick employee; to render nursing aid when 
necessary; to report on his condition and whether or not he is receiving 
proper medical care. She also diplomatically ascertains whether or 
not financial aid is needed; if the sick one is worrying over accumu- 
lating debts; if the home environments and housing conditions are 
such as to interfere in his rapid recovery; in fact, she is able to 
supervise the health of the employee, to a certain extent, while at 
home. 

SURGICAL SERVICE 

The Surgical Service is one of the most vital branches of the med- 
ical department. The company surgeon, working in the front line 
trench of industry, is in the strategic position to develop the most 
comprehensive system of preventive surgery. His first duty is to 
study and enforce every possible form of accident prevention. In 
the minor accidents, such as pin-pricks, bruises, and the like, which 
are almost unavoidable, he must devise means of preventing complica- 
tions such as infections. When an accident occurs he must be close 
at hand to render the earliest possible treatment, and must continue 
to treat the case from the standpoint of preventing undue loss of 
time from work, preventing permanent disability, and, above all, to 
prevent the death of the patient. The restoring of the most perfect 
function in an injured member must be his aim. Such a surgeon is 
constantly striving for the best economic-end result, as well as for a 
medical-end result. 

Every industry should have on its medical staff a surgeon com- 
petent to handle every type of surgical condition. Even where a 






HEALTH SUPERVISION 25 

specialist is required for certain operations this company surgeon should 
continue to supervise the treatment. Employees sent to a hospital 
for surgical care usually receive more prompt attention and more 
careful after-treatment from the surgeon who is directly responsible 
to the management of an industry. Many an employee has been 
referred to one of the large hospitals in a city for operation when his 
occupation was not responsible for the condition. Often three or four 
days elapse before the hospital surgeon finds time to operate, except, of 
course, in very acute conditions. After the operation the treatment 
is left largely to the interne. Unfortunately, many internes have not 
yet developed the proper social sense, or do not consider the great 
economic loss due to keeping the patient in the hospital longer than 
is necessary. These employees leave the hospital dissatisfied with 
the treatment which they have received. Their statements are often 
exaggerated, but nevertheless it is apparent to the management that 
the cases cared for by the company surgeon are expedited, while too 
often those referred to the general staff of a hospital sustain an un- 
necessary loss of time. This condition is resulting in the company 
surgeon being requested by the management to operate more and more 
often on workmen with conditions other than injuries, especially when 
the early return of a man to his work is vital to the production of the 
plant. 

In many industries the workmen are so scattered that it is often im- 
possible for the surgeon to render prompt treatment when an accident 
occurs. In this case he must arrange for proper first-aid treatment by 
some competent fellow-employee. First-aid stations in some plants 
have been established at regular intervals throughout the buildings 
with trained laymen in charge to render first-aid to every injured 
employee. In others three or four intelligent employees are chosen in 
each department and are carefully drilled in every form of first-aid 
treatment by the company surgeon. When an accident occurs in that 
department these men take charge of the case and render the early 
treatment indicated. This first-aid work, however, should never re- 
place the doctor. Practically every injury, no matter how slight, 
should be sent or taken to the central office at once where a competent 
surgeon can take charge. In many places this first-aid service has 
been developed to such a high degree that it is one of the most impor- 
tant features in their plans for health supervision. 

SAFETY SERVICE 

No system of supervision of health of employees is complete unless 
suitable provision is made for the prevention of accidents. Therefore, 
a safety engineer is essential in making the general survey of mechan- 



26 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

ical conditions of ~the working place and in adding every appliance 
known for protection. After this is done he must make daily inspec- 
tions of the plant to see that these safeguards against accidents are 
used by the employees. He must also investigate every accident in 
order to devise some means to prevent its recurrence. 

There must be the closest co-operation between the safety engi- 
neer and the company surgeon; in fact, he should be directly con- 
nected with the medical department. The surgeon must report 
every accident promptly with all data pertaining to its cause which he 
obtains from the injured employee. By talking freely with an in- 
jured man during the period of caring for him the doctor can learn 
many apparently insignificant facts, even from the most ignorant 
employee, which are invaluable in this work of prevention. Like- 
wise, the company surgeon is the safety engineer as regards the human 
mechanism. By thoroughly examining the injured man he often 
finds some physical or mental defect as the cause for the accident. 

, 

SANITATION SERVICE 

Sanitary conditions of the plant have a very definite bearing on 
the comfort and health of the employees. Industrial engineers are con- 
stantly pointing to the relationship between industrial sanitation and 
maximum production. There is no doubt but what unsanitary condi- 
tions about a plant cause more sickness, more discontent among 
the employees, greater labor turn-over, and a very definite slowing 
up of production. From a medical standpoint the sanitary inspec- 
tions are almost of equal importance as the inspections of the 
force by physical examinations. The medical staff should see that 
every unsanitary condition is removed and the plant is made as 
healthful and comfortable as possible. To accomplish this the clean- 
liness of the building, the ventilation, the lighting, the temperature 
and humidity, the disinfection of toilets and cuspidors, the installa- 
tion of proper washing and bathing facilities, the removal of dangerous 
gases and dusts and the fumigation of departments or rooms where 
contagious cases have developed must be made perfect and kept so 
by frequent inspections. 

EMPLOYMENT SERVICE 

The question may well be asked by those unfamiliar with this work, 
why the employment service should be included as an adjunct to 
health supervision. The very fact that some employment managers 
in certain industries are endeavoring to have the medical departments 
placed under them demonstrates that there must be a very definite 



HEALTH SUPERVISION 27 

connection between health and employment. But the employment 
problem is only a small portion of the health program in any industry, 
and it is bound to curtail the work of the medical department if it is 
made subordinate to the employment department. As a means of 
health supervision it would be more logical to place employment 
tinder the medical director. The majority of concerns, however, con- 
sider it best to have the closest co-operation between these two depart- 
ments, but to have them operate under separate heads. 

Every applicant for work should be thoroughly examined by the 
medical staff in order to prevent the introduction of contagious diseases 
into the plant and to provide for the proper selection of work for 
every man according to his physical and mental qualifications. The 
employment department should see that the recommendation of the 
doctor as to the type of work a man is qualified for is carefully 
followed. 

In many concerns the employees are no longer subject to the whims 
of the foreman. The studies in labor turn-over have revealed the 
fact that the employing and training of a man to the point where he is 
efficient is too expensive a proposition to warrant his careless dis- 
charge unless there is a very good reason. In most of these concerns 
no employee is discharged without the approval of the employment 
manager. The latter ascertains why the man has not made good on 
his job, and sees if there is any other position in the plant in which he 
could make good. The medical department has become one of the 
most important allies in these efforts to conserve man-power. Fre- 
quently some incompatibility between the occupation and the physical 
condition of the employee is responsible for his failure to succeed in a 
given position. 

The earliest impressions the new employee receives concerning 
his future working home are received in the employment and the 
medical departments. Both should endeavor to at once familiarize 
the new man with every branch of the employees' service department. 
These first impressions go a long way toward engendering in the 
novice the proper mental attitude toward his future work and his 
employer. 

RESTAURANT SERVICE 

Many industries provide proper restaurant service for their working 
force, or at least a proper place in which to eat their lunches. No group 
can be kept at the highest point of efficiency if allowed to remain in 
the department during the noon hour. The change from the working 
place to a suitable eating place, with the short walk in the open air 
which this should involve, is one of the best efficiency measures which 
any concern can adopt (Fig. 2). 



28 

The providing of the proper food for employees, the supervision of 
the sanitary conditions of the restaurant and the physical examination 
of the help preparing or serving this food is a logical part of the 
health supervision program. 




FIG. 2. Employees Dining Room. (Courtesy Cincinnati Milling Machine Co.) 



RECREATIONAL SERVICE 

Athletics has become almost as popular among industrial employees 
as among college students. Almost every small concern, as well as the 
large ones, has its baseball team, its tennis team, and even its golf 
team. Competitive games between different working forces are 
quite frequent. Some of the largest industries have their athletic 
directors and employ coaches similar to the athletic departments of 
universities. Teams are developed in the different departments and 
competition is very keen. The annual field meet of one of the large 
industries of Chicago now attracts almost as large a crowd as the 
Conference Meet at the University (Fig. 3). These athletic contests 
are not limited to the male employees, but the girls have their teams 
and tournaments likewise. 

No better means of improving the physical condition of employees 
and of supervising their health can be established than this form of 
recreation. The doctor should take a very active part in all such 
organizations and should constantly stimulate the employees to 



HEALTH SUPERVISION 



29 



join some one of the athletic teams, or to join the gymnastic classes. 
In this industry, above referred to, no person can become a member 
of one of these teams or take part in any form of physical recreation 




connected with the plant without first being thoroughly examined 
by one of the doctors and pronounced physically fit to compete. This 
affords another channel for health supervision. 



30 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

WELFARE SERVICE 

The term " welfare " is disliked by many employees. It smacks too 
much of charity. Nevertheless, it is one of the most important 
branches of the employees service department. It has been variously 
termed in the different industries as The Industrial Relations Service, 
The Employees Advisors, The Sociological Service, etc. No matter 
by what term you call it, the work of such a division has a logical 
place in industry, and it must have the closest connection with the 
medical department. 

Many times little controversies will occur between a boss and a 
worker, or little injustices will be done an employee and will so prey 
on his mind that he first becomes mentally then physically unfit. 



ency 




and 

nervousness 



FIG. 4. All things tending to lower the health of an employee lower his efficiency. 
Result The Vicious Circle. The preventive is a properly organized Human Main- 
tenance Department. 

Again, misfits between the job and the man, misfits in temperament 
between the boss and an employee, and many other allied conditions, 
often lead to the development of a vicious circle. A misfit means 
inefficiency, inefficiency causes censure and fear of losing his job, 
this fear causes worry, then nervousness, then lowered health 
conditions, and this last physical state makes him a greater misfit 
(Fig. 4). 

Fears of all kinds; discontent; lack of living wage; worry over sick- 
ness or trouble at home; worry over debts; over a love affair; over a 
crime committed; bad habits, especially intemperance; bad home 
environments; insufficient food; unsanitary housing conditions; and 
innumerable other stimuli for mental and physical depression, are 
daily arising to undermine the health of employees. It is just as es- 
sential to remove these conditions as it is to make the plant sanitary. 



HEALTH SUPERVISION 31 

The ability to meet these problems and to help the medical de- 
partment to solve them is the duty of the so-called welfare department. 
Let the employees know that their confidential friends are located in 
this department a sympathetic man for men, and a woman for 
women where they can take every problem of the above nature and 
receive help. In a large industry these advisors furnish an excellent 
means of personal contact between the employer and employee 
a personal contact which is essential to the comfort and well-being of 
every worker. This department is responsible, to a large extent, in 
educating the force to co-operate in all plans for accident prevention 
and health supervision. 

INSURANCE SERVICE 

The need of some form of health insurance for sick employees is 
clearly demonstrated by the fact that most large industries have pro- 
vided mutual benefit associations to which the employer in most 
cases contributes a certain amount as well as the employee. The 
insurance thus received in case of sickness enables the workman to 
secure proper medical care. In most concerns membership in these 
benefit associations is entirely voluntary. The medical staff, which 
is in the best position to realize the value of this form of insurance, 
should never miss the opportunity of urging the employees to join 
such associations. As a rule these organizations are a great stimulus 
to health supervision. Employees contributing to a benefit association 
are easily impressed with the saving which results from keeping the 
sick rate down to a minimum by proper preventive measures. 

BANKING AND LOAN SERVICE 

While the banking department of an industry, which provides 
for savings at a good rate of interest, may not have a very close 
connection to the problems of health supervision, yet the loan de- 
partment of this banking service has one of the closest connections. 
Time and again the visiting nurses will report that an employee who 
is at home sick needs special nursing service, or that the home 
conditions are responsible for the ill-health, or that an operation 
requiring the expenditure of a considerable sum is necessary, and that 
funds to meet the situation are lacking. After a careful investigation 
the medical director can recommend to the banking department that a 
loan of money be granted such an employee. As a rule these loans 
are repaid in very small amounts from the weekly wage after he is 
able to return to work. 

In one industry advantage has been taken of this loan privilege 
to urge employees to have much needed dental work done. This 



32 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

same concern has arranged for all old employees, and all applicants for 
work who are accepted, who are in need of glasses to correct defective 
vision to buy the same, the money being provided by a loan. 

HOUSING AND COMMUNITY SERVICE 

No system of health supervision in the plant is complete that does 
not consider the home conditions of its employees. The best means of 
securing reports on these home conditions is through the visiting nurses. 
Close co-operation with the Municipal Public Health Service will 
enable the medical director to secure the necessary correction of 
unsanitary conditions in the community. 

If the head of a concern, or a man very close to him, will take 
charge of this service and will take an active interest in improving the 
housing conditions for the entire community as well as for his em- 
ployees, the greatest benefits will result. 

From this short re'sume' of the functions of the various services 
represented in a complete Employees' Service Department, it is 
quite evident that the supervision of the health of the employees forms 
the very foundation of all this work. 

Before such a comprehensive system of supervision of the working 
place, the mechanical appliances therein, and of the employees, can 
be instituted the employers must be educated to the value of such a 
procedure. Some employers, with a vision and a social sense, will see 
the humane side, while others, of a more calculating disposition, will 
look for the dollar-and-cent value before installing this system. 

In those industries where pioneer work in Industrial Medicine and 
Surgery has been done, the results should satisfy either of the above 
types of employers that such supervision pays dividends and makes a 
happier, more contented working force. It must be the duty, there- 
fore, of every company surgeon, of every safety engineer, and of every 
so-called welfare worker, to show that the benefits to the employer are 
in direct ratio to the thoroughness and completeness of the plan which 
he adopts for the Supervision of the Health of his Employees. 

Very few employers, even in industries where various plans of 
health supervision have been inaugurated, realize the reasons therefor 
and the full significance of this work. If they would awake to a real 
comprehension of the value of this form of -.supervision, a social evolu- 
tion would occur which would react to the great welfare of both the 
employer and employee and would solve more labor disputes in a minute 
than the old system could evolve in a year. 

This is not Socialism so-called but it is the broadest socializing 
influence, the most forward step for preparedness, and the greatest 
conservation movement our country has ever witnessed. 



CHAPTER II 
THE PLANT HOSPITAL OR DOCTOR'S OFFICE 

The term "Doctor's Office" is usually applied to the medical de- 
partment of an industry. In many places it has the functions, tem- 
porarily, of a hospital, but because a special license is required to 
operate a hospital and because patients are seldom kept at the plant 
over night, the term "hospital" is rarely used. In some concerns it 
is called the "Plant Dispensary," in others, "The Medical Depart- 
ment," and in one industry the sign "Employees' Doctor" marks 
the location of this department. 

Every industry with a few hundred employees, as well as those 
employing thousands, will find it greatly to their advantage to have a 

* 

'^ 




FIG. 5. Industrial Dispensary at Primero, Colo. (Courtesy Colorado Fuel & Iron Co.) 

medical department located somewhere about the plant. The smaller 
industries will not require a doctor all day, but there should be a doc- 
tor's office and a physician in attendance for a few hours every 
day. For industries of a thousand employees or more it is very im- 
perative that there should be a plant dispensary and constant medical 
attendance. The duties of the physician will be taken up in the next 
chapter. 

The location of the medical departments in those industries which 
have installed them varies considerably. Some have built very hand- 
3 33 



34 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 




FIG. 6. Medical Department and service room plan. Cincinnati Milling Machine 
Co. (From "Employees Service News.") 

FOREWORD. The two floor plans of the Employees' Service Department of the 
Cincinnati Milling Machine Company include some 23,000 sq. ft. of floor space, which 
is given over to the Medical, Dental and Employment Departments, the comforts 
and convenience of the locker room, the Commissary and the Cafeteria. 

While the growth of this Department has been gradual, the whole layout is distinc- 
tive in that all of the facilities mentioned above have been brought together and cen- 
tralized for the purpose of supervision and convenience and efficiency of operation. 
Considerable study is evidenced in its compact arrangement, providing everything 
that the human engineer would first think of, except, perhaps, recreational facilities. 

Looking first at the office end of the Employees' Service Department one notes 
that the Employment Department and the Medical Department are side by side* 



THE PLANT HOSPITAL OR DOCTOR'S OFFICE 35 

some buildings in close proximity to the plant (Fig. 5). Others have 
set aside spacious, well lighted rooms directly in the plant and equipped 
them as the most ideal doctor's offices, surpassing in many respects 
the private offices of any physician in the country. Many of these 
would delight the heart of the most fastidious physician. 

Too often, however, the company physician has been unable to 
demonstrate the value of efficient medical service to his employers 
and as a result they have furnished him very poor quarters in which 
to work. Or the management may feel that the medical department 
is an unprofitable, expensive necessity and therefore crowd it into 
some place where it will not take up space capable of productivity. 
The best argument against this attitude is that some of the largest, 
most successful concerns have assigned the best location in their plants 
to their medical departments. 

Some time ago a successful business man visited one of the pro- 
gressive industries and made a careful inspection of their doctor's 
office. When he had finished he said : "This is all very fine but how 
can you afford to give over such a large amount of valuable space to 
your Medical Department?" The official of the concern who was 
present said: "Why, man, this department pays the biggest dividends 
of any of our departments and therefore it deserves all the space it 
needs." 

The selection of the proper location for the doctor's office or plant 
dispensary must depend upon many local factors, out a few general 
rules can be laid down which should be of great assistance to the 
company surgeon. 

1. Choose a central location in the plant where the doctor's office 
will be the most available to the greatest number of employees. 

2. If one portion of the plant is engaged in work where accidents 
are more liable to occur, the office should be located in that vicinity. 

3. Whenever possible the employment department should be 
in close proximity so as to facilitate the examination of applicants 
for work (Fig. 6). 

separated only by the employees' entrance, whose doors are locked at the start- 
ing hour. Thereafter all late comers must pass through the Employment Office, 
where the clerk makes record as to his cause of lateness. Similarly, all men leaving 
the shop at irregular periods can only pass out through the Employment Department 
and by the same clerk, who makes record of his exit. All successful applicants for jobs 
readily pass into the Medical Department for a physical examination. 

After starting hours the doors leading from the locker room to the plant are locked. 
The floor arrangement shown indicates how accessible the Medical, Dental, Employ- 
ment and Paymaster's Offices are to all the men of the shop. Complete privacy is 
assured any employee who wishes to discuss his personal affairs with the Employment 
Manager, the Assistant Superintendent, or the Medical Chief, who happens also to be 
the Director of the Employees' Service Department. It is here also that office roo.n 
is provided for the group of men who manage the Health and Insurance Association 
of the plant. 

The floor plan is practically self-descriptive and needs no further elaboration. 



36 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

4. It should not be placed in a noisy portion of the plant where 
the rumble of machinery, or of heavy trucks, etc., will interfere with 
the efficient use of the stethoscope in examinations. 

5. The rooms should be spacious, well ventilated and well lighted 
and of sufficient number that the work can be done with more or less 

privacy. 

6. The doctor's office should at all times be a model of cleanliness. 

7. Whenever the size of the industry warrants it the office should 
be located upon the grounds or in the building. 

8. Keep the medical work centralized in one office as far as pos- 
sible, but if the plant is scattered, it may be necessary to have sub- 
stations. 

9. Whenever practicable a separate building in close proximity to 
the plant should be used. This affords better light and ventilation 
and. quieter examining and rest rooms. Sick and injured employees 
are also exposed to less unpleasant publicity. 

The minimum requirements for the doctor's office in an industrial 
concern, suitable for conducting the medical examination of employees, 
can best be shown by quoting from the report of the "Committee on 
Factories," made to the Chicago Tuberculosis Institute in 1913. 

This committee consisted of : 

Dr. Harry E. Mock, Sears, Roebuck and Company, chairman. 

Dr. A. M. Harvey, Crane Company. 

Dr. James A. Britton, International Harvester Company. 

Dr. W. H. Lipman, Swift and Company. 

Dr. L. Z. Little, Western Electric Company. 

" 'Provision for the Medical Office and Equipment in an Industrial 
Concern' was the subject of the committee's report. 

"That it marked an epoch-making advance in the promulgation of 
the systematic supervision of the health of employees, was pointed out 
in the words of the chairman of the Factory Committee, Dr. Theodore 
Sachs: 'The most significant point in connection with this report is 
that in a comparatively short period of three years or so, the medical 
departments in the industrial concerns became an important integral 
part of the concern and this report certainly presents a good basis for 
all others, who are contemplating the installation of a health depart- 
ment, to follow.' " 

The committee report follows: 

"In the judgment of your committee, the subject matter proposed 
for their consideration was entirely too broad : 

"First. Because a great many industries already have a medical 
department in connection with their plants. 

" Second. Because an industry planning to take up this medical 
work should first choose a competent physician to take charge, and 



THE PLANT HOSPITAL OR DOCTOR'S OFFICE 37 

the arrangement, equipment, size and location of the doctor's office 
should be left to his judgment and discretion in practically every 
case. 

" Third. Because most industries contemplating the installation 
of a doctor's office must of necessity have in mind the care of injured 
employees as one of the chief duties of the medical department. 

"Therefore, we have dealt with this subject from one aspect only, 
namely: 'What should be the minimum requirements for the doctor's 
office and equipment, in an industrial concern, suitable for conducting 
the medical examination of employees.' 

"The ideal arrangement would be a group of offices, well-lighted, 
well-aired, removed from all noises, and housed in a building prefer- 
ably detached from the plant, but conveniently accessible to a majority 
of the employees. 

"There are now a few such ideal doctors' offices in connection with 
certain industries here in Chicago, but it must be remembered that it 
has taken years to accomplish this. 

"It can hardly be expected that a medical department will be in- 
stalled on such a grand scale before its value has been absolutely 
proven to an industrial concern. 

"As stated before, most large industries already have a medical 
department in connection with their plant for the care of accident cases. 
These offices can be used at certain times of the day for the examina- 
tion of the employees. As the value of this procedure, in the increased 
efficiency of the working force, is demonstrated, larger and better 
equipped offices will undoubtedly be established. 

"For small concerns desiring to adopt a system of medical examina- 
tion of employees, but where the installation of a doctor's office is 
not practical and space is not available, this can usually be accom- 
plished by sending the employees to a doctor's office in the neighbor- 
hood; or a group of small industries can unite and employ a doctor 
who will visit them in succession. Every concern, no matter how small 
could give a small office to the doctor for an hour a day where he could 
conduct the examinations. The specimens for the laboratory work 
could even be carried back to this doctor's own office for analysis. 

"For a concern contemplating the installation of an office for 
the purpose of examination of employees the following should be the 
minimum requirements: 

"Location. This may be directly in connection with the 
plant, but an effort should be made to choose as quiet a location as 
possible. Thus, noisy machinery overhead or in the adjoining room 
may detract to a certain extent from the value of the examination. 

"Offices. The size and number of these must depend upon the 
number of employees to be examined daily. For -this reason, the 



38 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

physician in charge should be chosen first and consulted freely as to 
his needs. The following rooms are necessary, however: 

"A waiting room equipped with chairs or suitable benches for 
seating. A separate waiting room for men and women is a more ideal 
arrangement, but not at all necessary (Fig. 7). 

"A general office: where a stenographer can work and where files 
can be kept. It is very essential that the most careful record be 
kept on each case examined (Fig. 8). 

"An Examining Room. This should be made as quiet as possible, 
should be well-lighted, even if artificial light is necessary to accomplish 




FIG. 7. Waiting Room. 

this, and should be completely closed off from the rest of the rooms. 
It should contain a chair for the doctor, a stool (a revolving piano stool 
is ideal) for the employee, and a simple, padded examining table, for 
frequently it is desired to examine the employee in a recumbent posi- 
tion; also a small stand for writing or on which to lay the stethoscope, 
the blood pressure outfit or other instruments. Two hooks placed 
in the wall can be used as clothes hangers. 

"If a number of employees are to be examined each day, two or more 
such rooms should be thus equipped. An ideal arrangement is to have 
a dressing room in connection with a small examining room. Two 
or more men can then remove their clothing in the dressing room 
and come into the examining room prepared for the examination. 
Thus, the doctor can remain continually in this room, examining the 
employees as they are brought to him. 

"For examination of the female help, the separate dressing room and 
examining room is very essential. The girl employee should remove 
her waist and underclothing over her chest in the dressing room, and 
the nurse should then cover her chest and shoulders with a sheet or an 



THE PLANT HOSPITAL OR DOCTOR'S OFFICE 39 

examination cape. The girl is then taken before the doctor to be 
examined. In all cases the nurse should be present when a girl is 
examined. 

"A History Room. This is not essential, as the history of each 
case may be taken in the examining room; but it saves a great deal of 
the physician's time if a separate history room is provided. Here, the 
temperature, pulse, height, and weight of the employee can be taken, 
and the few points desired in regard to his age, nationality, and past 
history obtained. This can be done by a nurse, or, if the nurse's time 
is occupied elsewhere, by a well-trained attendant. 




Fio. 8. Clerical and Filing Room in Doctor's Office. 

"A Laboratory. This is absolutely essential, for no examination is 
complete without certain laboratory tests are made. It should be 
equipped, therefore, for careful urinalysis with a microscope, blood 
counting, and blood pressure apparatus (Figs. 9 and 10). 

" A private office for the physician in charge is desirable, where con- 
fidential conversations with the various employees may be conducted. 
In the absence of such an office, one of the examining rooms can be 
used for this purpose. 

" As the medical examination of employees is such a broad subject 
and as there are so many problems to be considered, we would recom- 
mend that this organization appoint a permanent committee to meet 
with and co-operate with other committees, such as the Industrial 
Hygiene Committee of the Illinois Manufacturers Association, the 
Health Committee of the National Safety Council and the Health 
Committees of the various labor organizations who are also considering 
this subject of the medical examination of employees." 

The above report covers only the essentials for a doctor's office, 
equipped for the medical examinations. In addition this office must 
have: 



40 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



A surgical room, where the accident cases can receive immediate 
attention and where the subsequent dressings can be done. If the 
industry employs a large proportion of women, there should be two of 




FIG. 9. Laboratory in hospital of Colorado Fuel and Iron Co. 




FIG. 10. Laboratory in Medical Department. (Ford Co.) 

these rooms. Good light and ventilation are very essential. They 
should be closed off from the rest of the office as the sight of wounds 
being dressed will tend to prevent employees from coming to the office. 



THE PLANT HOSPITAL OR DOCTOR S OFFICE 



41 



Here above all places cleanliness must be the rule. The room should 
be white and furnished in white enamel (Fig. 11). Instruments, as 
far as possible, should be kept out of sight. The furniture should 
consist of: 

(a) White enamel table where the patient can lie down if neces- 
sary. 

(6) White enamel dressing table. 

(c) White enamel stand for instrument sterilizer. 

(d) Glass jars for the dressings.' 

(e) Instrument cabinet. 

(/) The few necessary drugs. 

(g) White enamel chairs or stools. 




FIG. 11. Surgical dressing room in Medical Department. (Courtesy Ford Co.) 



(h) White enamel stands suitable for resting of leg or arm for 
dressing wounds of these extremities. 

(i) Hot and cold running water (foot control). 

(j) As an adjunct to this equipment there should be space, or pref- 
erably a separate room, for hydrotherapy and baking apparatus. 

A sterilizing room, where all dressings used on the wounds can be 
thoroughly sterilized. 

An X-ray Laboratory. This is very essential in connection with 
every doctor's office where accidents of a severer nature are liable to 
occur. 



42 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

Rest Rooms. One for the women employees and one for the men 
should be provided in every industry and should be in connection with 
the doctor's office. Sudden acute illness among the employees will 
often necessitate their lying down until a cab or ambulance can be 
called to take them home or to the outside hospital. Likewise, a suit- 
able rest room will enable employees to overcome some temporary 
condition and return to work after an hour or two. The value of 
these rest rooms will be touched on in subsequent chapters. 

Proper toilet facilities must be provided in the doctor's office. 
Bath tubs in connection with these will frequently be of advantage. 
Cases of heat exhaustion have undoubtedly been saved by the imme- 
diate use of a tub of cold water. Again the nurses by keen diplomacy 
have persuaded employees, unused to a bath more often than twice 
a year, to enter these tubs and learn the joys of a good bath. 

A dental office and rooms for eye, ear, nose and throat work 
are most valuable additions to this office and are necessary when a 
concern is sufficiently farsighted to see the great economic value of 
an efficient, comprehensive system of Industrial Medicine and 
Surgery. 

When a small number of persons are employed it is unprofitable 
to have a medical department connected with the plant. In this 
case arrangements should be made with a nearby physician to render 
immediate care to their injured and to use his office for the purpose of 
making the medical examinations. This physician should visit the 
plant once or twice a week to make sanitary inspections and in other 
ways supervise the health of these employees. 

In some cities several small employers have combined and selected 
a physician with a central emergency office convenient to all their 
plants to carry on this medical and surgical work for them. The point 
is that every employer should voluntarily assume this protection for 
his employees or the states should pass legislation making such a pro- 
cedure compulsory. 



CHAPTER III 
THE MEDICAL STAFF 

SIZE, DUTIES, AND ADJUNCTS 

The character of the work, the number of employees, and the size 
of the industry must determine the number of doctors, the location of 
the plant dispensary, and the amount of service necessary to conduct 
a comprehensive system of health supervision. These are details 
which each company surgeon must meet, and which will certainly 
be subjected to changes with the growth of his work. For instance, 
one industry, a pioneer in this type of medical and surgical work, has 
gradually expanded its space, equipment and medical staff from a 
small four room office with one doctor and two nurses in 1909, to a 
large eighteen room office with ten doctors, twelve nurses, and two 
dentists in 1916. These doctors spend 3^ hours per day at this 
work, so rotating that there is always one or more in attendance at 
the company office. 

While many expert company surgeons devote all of their time to 
the industries employing them, yet as a rule better-trained and more 
able physicians can be secured, if employers require them to give only 
a part of their time to this work. This perhaps would not be true if 
they would pay a salary commensurate to the services rendered by the 
up-to-date company surgeon. Industry should require the very best 
talent in the medical profession, but such men can make a much greater 
income in private practice. Undoubtedly the time is rapidly approach- 
ing when large salaries will be paid in order to engage the best medical 
and surgical talent in the country for this type of work. 

However, an industry can employ two physicians of this caliber 
for part time service, and their combined salaries will be much less 
than if one of them gave his full time to the work. An additional 
incentive to a good internist or surgeon entering upon such an arrange- 
ment is the great amount of clinical material placed at his disposal. 
These medical departments of industries afford the greatest human 
laboratories for study ever offered to a physician. 

The situation is quite analogous to that found in our leading 
medical schools. The heads of departments and those associated with 
them give a portion of each day to teaching and clinical work the 
rest of their time is given to private practice, study and investiga- 
tion. Because of their clinical experience, plus the broadening in- 

43 



44 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

fluence of their private and public work, these men become the leaders 
and scholars in our profession, a"nd their influence in the community at 
large is much greater than if they devoted their entire time, on an 
inadequate salary, to teaching in a medical school. The tendency for 
medical teachers to give full tune to this work is due to the willingness 
of a few Universities to pay an adequate income. But the best full 
time teachers are those who have had the experience and broadening 
influence of actually practising medicine previous to limiting their 
work to teaching. (Certain laboratory men and specialists are 
exceptions, of course.) 

So with a company surgeon the greater name and prestige he 
can build for himself in his community, the greater his value to the 
industry with which he is connected, and the better his influence 
over the employees and their confidence in him. 

As stated before, the 'composition of the medical staff will vary 
according to the number of employees and the size of the industry. 
The sex of the employees also plays a part in this decision. 

The first requisite is a well-trained medical man in charge of the 
work, known as the Medical Director or Chief Surgeon. He shoujd 
always be a man, if the working force is entirely male or composed 
of both male and female help. In those concerns employing chiefly 
women a properly qualified woman physician will undoubtedly be of 
the greatest service. Where the amount of work demands it, one or 
more medical assistants must be employed. A nurse, preferably 
female, is the most valuable aid to the medical staff. Her duties 
are outlined in a subsequent chapter. 

If the size of the plant warrants it, an oculist and dentist should be 
employed. At least arrangements should be made with some able 
oculist and good dentist to take care of this branch of the medical work 
at their private offices. 

The medical man entering this field must be a very broadly trained 
physician. Some of the largest industries can afford to have several 
doctors on their staff and thus can divide the work into its various 
specialties; but even here the chief of staff must be trained thoroughly 
in all the branches of this work. In the smaller corporations, however, 
the company surgeon must be a surgeon, an internist, a diagnostician, 
a sanitation expert, and an all-around medical utility man. 

The duties and size of the staff can best be illustrated by outlin- 
ing specific examples in several typical industries. 

I. A stove factory employing approximately 800 men. This 
factory has a one room doctor's office, well lighted, and equipped 
with sufficient surgical appliances and dressings to do all types of 
emergency surgery, as well as routine ambulatory dressings; a chair 
and table suitable for making medical examinations; a small but 



THE MEDICAL STAFF 45 

practical and adequate laboratory. A physician, whose office is two 
miles away, is employed on a monthly salary by this concern. He is 
a general practitioner a good internist and a good surgeon, and a 
man who keeps abreast of new developments in medical science. He 
visits the plant for two hours every morning. 

His duties there consist of, dressing all minor accident cases; 
examining any new employees hired within the last 24 hours (he calls 
early in the morning and the concern tries to have all applicants for 
work examined before employing them) ; examining all employees who 
have been absent on account of sickness; examining a certain number 
of the old working force, so that those needing it will have their peri- 
odical physical examinations; and making the necessary sanitary 
inspections to properly supervise the health of all the employees. 

One employee in this concern has been carefully trained in first 
aid work. All workers sustaining injuries, no matter how slight, 
are made to report to the doctor's office at once. Here, during the 
physician's absence, this first aid man applies iodine and a simple ster- 
ile dressing to only the very minor accidents and allows them to wait 
until the next morning before seeing the doctor. To the other cases 
he applies iodine and a sterile dressing and sends them at once to this 
physician's private office. Or, if the case is serious, the doctor is 
immediately called to the plant. He has two associates who are on 
call for these cases providing he is away from the office. 

This physician has a similar arrangement with two smaller indus- 
tries but calls only twice a week at their plants. Their accident cases 
are sent to his office for dressings, but all medical examinations are 
made on his calls at these plants. His income is greatly enhanced by 
this work, and at the same time he is rendering a valuable service to 
over two thousand employees in his city. And for a nominal cost 
these employers are increasing the efficiency of their working force to a 
greater extent than they realize. 

II. A large department store employing about 4000 people. This 
store has a woman physician who spends her mornings at their doctor's 
office. In the afternoon she does a similar work in a second but smaller 
store. She dresses the few accident cases which arise and spends 
the remainder of the time in rendering medical care to the girls who 
become sick while at work, in medical examinations of all applicants for 
work and similar examinations among the old employees, and in general 
health supervision. Besides store sanitation this involves a close 
study of working conditions, home conditions, habits, and environ- 
ments of the girls, and all matters which would tend to undermine their 
health. She has a wonderful personality which enables her to gain 
the girls' confidence. 

Three trained nurses assist in this work. One is at the doctor's 



46 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

office at all times to render first aid in her absence, in the case of either 
accident or sickness. The other two visit the sick employees in their 
homes and render any aid they can to these showing the friendly 
interest of the concern in their welfare. The information gathered 
by the nurses gives the doctor her insight into the home environ- 
ments and habits of the girls. 

This woman besides being a physician to the individual case, pre- 
scribing a pill here and bandaging a cut finger there, is also the medical 
advisor and confidential friend to 7000 girls, and has become an effi- 
ciency expert to her employers. A job certainly big enough for any 
individual! 

Large rooms for recreation have been set aside for these employees. 
Adjoining them are dining rooms where food, prepared by the 
direction of the doctor, is served at a rate below that of outside restau- 
rants. The lunch hour has been extended from ^ hour to % hour, 
and this allows the girls to dance and play games during the noon 
period, thus returning to their work refreshed and energetic. Evening 
entertainments have been provided which are much more beneficial 
to the girls from both a moral and health standpoint than the average 
festivities of the city. Many and varied talks to the employees, in 
groups and individually, have corrected conditions in their diets, 
modes of dressing, improper sleeping rooms, loss of sleep, and unsani- 
tary home surroundings. These, combined with corrective measures 
in the individual from a medical and surgical standpoint, have 
increased the efficiency of the forces in these stores and decreased time- 
loss on account of sickness almost fifty percent. It is no wonder 
that the proprietors have installed ventilating systems, inverted 
lighting systems, and many other costly yet helpful health measures, 
on the recommendations of this physician. 

III. An electrical concern with 5000 employees. Here we have 
the example of the chief surgeon as a full-time man, with a full-time 
assistant. This concern has a well-equipped, four-room doctor's 
office and an additional staff of four nurses. The work was 
primarily surgical, but gradually this has extended until the assistant's 
time is devoted altogether to the medical examination of employees. 
Applicants for work are not examined until they have been employed 
for at least three months. This plan is adopted as it obviates the 
examining of many applicants who only remain a week or a month on 
the job. Naturally the two chief purposes of a medical examination of 
applicants are lost by such a procedure; namely, the protection of the 
old force from contagion, and the proper selection of a job for the 
partially handicapped. 

One nurse is constantly in attendance at the doctor's office as an 
assistant to the physicians. The other three nurses spend their time^ 



THE MEDICAL STAFF 47 

in visiting all absent employees. These visits are fifty percent helpful 
to the working force and fifty percent for the purpose of spying on the 
employees to ascertain why they are away from work. While the 
latter work may be necessary, yet it cannot be connected with the 
former and give the desired results from a medical standpoint. Visit- 
ing nurses' work among employees, to be beneficial and to have the 
co-operation of the entire force, must be based on altruistic, humani- 
tarian grounds only friendly interest, health supervision, and a desire 
to help whenever and wherever possible. 

IV. A large automobile concern employing some 30,000 men and 
women. The system herein outlined is similar in many respects to 
that in vogue in several of our large industrial establishments. 

Here we have the example of the large, full-time medical staff, 
which is very efficient, and is represented by some of the best medical 
and surgical talent of the country, because this concern, and many like 
it, are willing to pay for the best, especially for the chief of staff. 

The central doctor's office consists of twelve rooms, large, airy, 
well lighted, with tile floors, white walls, and furnished in white 
enamel fixtures. It has a large waiting room, two private consultation 
rooms, two surgical dressing rooms, a room for eye, ear, nose and throat 
work, examining rooms, avray laboratory, and a general laboratory. 

In addition to this central office there are six medical sub-offices, 
or first aid stations. These are in charge of well-trained, first aid 
laymen whose duties are to render immediate care to any injured 
employee, and, except in case of very slight injury, to see that the 
patient goes at once to the central office for care by the physician in 
charge. The reduction in infections and other complications more than 
pays for the extra expense of maintaining these first aid stations. Be- 
sides this first aid work, these men have been trained as experts in 
accident prevention. Whenever an accident occurs they investigate 
the cause and report the same in great detail with recommendations 
for its correction. 

The duties of the medical staff are as follows : 

1. To render proper and immediate surgical care to the injured 
coming directly to the office or sent there from the first aid stations. 
The major injuries requiring outside hospital care are sent there in an 
ambulance, and the surgeon on the staff goes to the hospital and does 
whatever operative work is indicated. Neither this surgeon nor any 
of the others on the staff are permitted to have private cases. Their 
time is given entirely to this concern. 

2. To examine all applicants for work and to so co-operate with the 
employment department that all new employees are placed at work for 
which they are physically fit. 

3. To examine and re-examine any employee whenever some 



48 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

condition in the man himself, in his work, or in his environment indi- 
cates the necessity. 

4. To periodically examine those with handicapped conditions who 
were allowed to go to work, or who have been discovered subsequent to 
employment and to place them at suitable occupations. 

5. To supervise the medical or surgical treatment which the sick 
employees receive in their homes from their family physicians. When 
mal-treatment indicates the need, the medical staff of this industry does 
npt hesitate to take charge of the case. 

6. Special medical care is given to tuberculous employees in a 
sanatorium owned by the concern. 

7. To co-operate with the welfare or sociological department on all 
matters pertaining to the health of the employees either in their 
working place or in their homes. 

The medical staff necessary to carry on this work consists of seven 
doctors, four nurses and twelve lay assistants. Much of the visiting 
work done by nurses in other establishments is left to the visitors of 
the sociological department in this plant. 

V. The Industrial Medical Office Serving Several Industries. 
Several cities have examples of this system, but Doctors Selby, Heath 
and Heim of Toledo, Ohio, have developed it to the greatest extent. 

It consists of establishing a well-equipped doctor's office in the 
vicinity of several industries. These concerns can thus secure excel- 
lent medical and surgical services for their employees at a much less 
cost than if they created a separate system. Three such offices are 
maintained in different sections of the city by these physicians. 

In the mornings they spend their time at these offices and in the 
afternoon at the hospital, caring for the more serious cases it has been 
necessary to refer there. During their absence from these offices as- 
sistants are constantly in attendance to render emergency treatment 
and to call one of the doctors in the more serious cases. 

Nurses are employed to assist the doctors in their surgical dress- 
ings and to do visiting nurses' work for those concerns employing this 
branch of the service. 

The doctors have influenced the different plants to install safety 
engineers and are constantly co-operating with these to prevent 
accidents. 

Likewise, sanitary inspections of the plants are made by these 
physicians. Since one of them is a member of the City Board of 
Health, unsanitary conditions in the community surrounding the 
plants are carefully investigated and corrected. 

Recently they have extended their health supervision to include 
physical examinations of employees. As their work grows it will 
become necessary to double and triple their staffs. 



THE MEDICAL STAFF 49 

Such an arrangement as this is ideal in many respects. Every 
industry in a city should co-operate to secure some such central plan 
which includes every branch of preventive medicine when they cannot 
develop their own medical department. By insisting upon the 
physical examination of every applicant for work and by periodical 
medical examinations of their old forces, a card index of the 
physical condition of every employee would soon be filed in the 
central office. 

Vaccinations, typhoid inoculations and other preventive measures 
could be included in the work. Then by following up every case of 
sickness by a large, competent staff of visiting nurses communicable 
disease could soon be controlled. 

Doctors employed for the sole purpose of visiting sick employees, 
without interfering with the treatment except where definitely indi- 
cated, but to ascertain that medical attention has been sought and is 
being given, would reduce the length of sickness and therefore time- 
loss to a marked degree. 

Such a system would have wonderful influence over the public 
health of the community, would raise the standards of medical and 
surgical practices in the city, and by having a central office would ob- 
viate much duplication of work. 

Who should be more interested in the health of the community 
than the industries employing the people of that community? There- 
fore such a co-operative plan is logical and results in benefits to both 
the employer and employee. 

VI. Complete Medical and Surgical Care for the Employees and 
Their Families. For many years large mines in the West, and a few 
railroads, have had arrangements with their medical staffs whereby 
for a stipulated sum, usually one dollar per month, the employee 
and his family can receive free medical and surgical treatment at 
any time. Some of these have developed large hospitals and render 
excellent medical care to their sick. Practically all these systems 
employ entirely too small a staff of physicians. The doctors are busy 
day and night caring for the sick and injured and can give very little 
time to developing preventive medicine and health supervision. In 
recent years, however, some of these concerns have turned their atten- 
tion to this more humane work. Nowhere could a more ideal system 
of industrial medicine and surgery be evolved than in these mining 
communities and railroad systems with their extensive hospital 
arrangements. 

One large street railway corporation has extended its health and 
safety work to include free medical and surgical care for its employees 
and their families. There is no cost whatever to the workman for 
this service. They have figures showing that the reduction in time 

4 



50 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

lost due to immediate and competent medical care more than offsets 
the expense of this work. 

A great many concerns employing from 1000 to 10,000 people 
have established in their plants well-equipped doctor's offices. They 
have retained their old company surgeon whose sole idea of the work 
is the dressing of injured cases, or they have put an untrained man in 
charge on an inadequate salary. Such concerns wonder why their 
medical departments are so expensive and why they do not obtain the 
results so glowingly spoken of by other establishments. 

One of these industries, a most progressive automobile factory, 
built a beautiful -medical dispensary. They retained their old company 
surgeon just to do their surgical work and sought a younger man to 
take charge of the medical work and supervision of the health of their 
employees. I was asked to recommend a suitably trained physician 
and sent in names of four men trained in the Industrial Medical Clinic 
of Rush Medical College. These men all refused the job because the 
concern asked them to give their full time to the work for one hundred 
and fifty dollars per month. They finally secured the services of a 
man for such a salary. In six months they let him go. Another man 
was employed for a similar salary.' His requests for assistants and 
nurses were not granted for reasons quite obvious considering the initial 
pay for the chief of staff. This concern is not at all enthusiastic over 
the results of industrial medicine and surgery. 

No individual proprietor, president of a corporation, board of 
directors, or anyone else in authority should contemplate introducing 
a comprehensive system of medical and surgical work among their 
employees without being willing to stand an initial outlay of money 
far in excess of what can actually be shown in dollars and cents as a 
monetary gain to them for such work. They must first see the vision 
of what lies within their power to do for human conservation. They 
must first be imbued with a great desire to see the working home of 
their people a healthful, sanitary place, with protection of every kind 
for both life and limb. Then the happier, contented working force, the 
healthier, more efficient employees, the reduction in "time-loss" 
from sickness and accidents, the decrease in "hiring and firing," 
the ever increasing loyalty and experience of old hands, these and many 
other by-products from such a system will be theirs to place in the 
credit column. 

"But how much money can we credit to these?" Who knows! 
Many a good man has tried to estimate the value of this work in dol- 
lars and cents but has always failed. 

Rest assured, Mr. Employer, that the increased productivity will 
pay far in excess of outlay for such protection. 



CHAPTER IV 
THE NURSE IN INDUSTRY 

Industrial nursing, like industrial medicine, has developed into 
a new specialty in the medical field. These nurses are absolutely 
essential in any comprehensive plan for the supervision of the health 
of employees. 

The successful industrial nurse must have a strong and likable 
personality, a well-developed social sense, leavened with much common 
sense, and a creative instinct which will enable her to devise new meth- 
ods of increasing the scope of her work. It is impossible to outline the 
exact duties which the nurse in industry must perform for new duties 
and new methods of approaching them are constantly arising. No 
nurse's training school can fit a nurse for this special work but she 
must learn it by actual experience in the field. At present it is planned 
to start an industrial course in Chicago which will enable these girls 
to obtain an interneship, as it were, in some of the large industrial dis- 
pensaries. Such a plan would greatly increase the effectiveness of 
the work of the human maintenance departments in industry. 

Miss Mae Middle ton, one of the most prominent industrial nurses 
in this country, has written the following article for this book. Her 
experience, extending over a period of several years, enables her to 
speak authoritatively on this subject. 

"Although Industrial Nursing, as we know it, is a comparatively 
new branch of Public Health work, it is at least twenty years since 
industries began to realize the necessity of having medical and nursing 
service, especially where a large number of people was employed and 
where the work was hazardous. 

"At first this work was confined to emergencies only and was en- 
trusted to the care of a man who had received some instruction in 
First Aid, or to the so-called nurse, who frequently had little or no 
training; the graduate nurse was seldom employed. 

"The benefits to be derived from well organized medical and nurs- 
ing service, conducted by professional workers, had not yet been rec- 
ognized or demonstrated in the business world, although it had been 
thought out and applied in relation to the community by many earnest 
civic students and workers. Facts revealed by comparatively recent 
and intensive studies in social and economic conditions, as well as the 
obligations imposed by employers' liability laws, have led employers 

51 



52 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

to recognize it as a very important asset in the prevention of disease 
and accident, and in the preservation of the health and efficiency 
of the employee; it is also of great value in creating a spirit of 
loyalty and contentment among the employees, where, for various 
reasons, it was often sadly lacking or non-existent so that now the 
employers seek, for the management of their medical departments, 
the expert physician or surgeon and the graduate nurse with special 
social service training. 

"The medical and nursing service of a large plant is responsible 
for maintaining the health of the employees to the highest point of 
efficiency possible, in order that the firm may receive for the services 
of this department adequate compensatory returns in the form of 
less time lost, fewer accidents, and better sanitary conditions with 
the result that there is a better quality of work done by the employees, 
and an increased output. 

"The hospital department, with its staff, in addition to the healing 
of disease and alleviation of pain, is ever on the look-out for sources, 
causes, and conditions from which they may arise, and must engage 
in study and effort, in co-operation with other departments and or- 
ganizations for their cure and removal, as, for instance, in the case of 
Mr. S. 

"Mr. S., employed as porter, was usually a very industrious and good 
employee, but, owing to the frequent illness of his children, he became 
absent-minded, worried and very much run-down. The first call by 
the nurse was made at his home July 28, 1917. The nurse found five 
children, ages eleven, eight, five, and two years, and a baby four 
months old. All the children appeared undernourished. The family 
lived in a four room basement flat, poorly ventilated but fairly clean. 
The mother seemed to have no conception as to the proper food for the 
children, the two-year-old eating as many as 10 bananas in one day. 
Little Joe, the four-months baby, was very ill, and though the ther- 
mometer registered nearly 90 degrees, the poor little fellow was tightly 
bound up in a feather pillow. There were no screens on the windows, 
and the place was just swarming with flies. The baby was given a 
cool bath immediately (he had a temperature of 103) and made 
comfortable. 

"On July 30th the nurse called again and brought the baby in to 
one of the house physicians, who makes a specialty of infant feeding. 
The doctor examined the baby thoroughly and said that, although 
the baby was very ill, he would pull through with proper care. The 
mother and baby were sent home in a cab, owing to the extreme heat, 
and the nurse followed soon after, with nursing bottles, nipples, a 
small kettle, and everything needed for preparing infants' food. She 
taught the mother every detail in regard to the sterilization of bottles, 



THE NURSE IN INDUSTRY 53 

the care of milk, etc., but they had no ice. This great need was ex- 
plained to the welfare department, and the nurse was given a check 
to purchase an ice-box. In less than one hour the ice-box was in- 
stalled. The mother was also taught the proper method of bathing 
the baby, and the two-year-old child was put on a diet. 

"On her next call, August 1st, the nurse found the baby much im- 
proved; the mother carrying, out instructions to the letter. The 
landlord had put screens in the windows, and there were no flies this 
day. Also, the department manager reported that Mr. S. was doing 
much better, taking more interest in his work, and looking better. 

"When again examined by the doctor, August 6th, the baby was 
found to have gained % pound, and its diet was increased. 

"By this time all the children seemed better. The nurse called 
every other day for a while, and the baby continued to improve. 
Later, owing to the busy season, the nurse was unable to call so often, 
but she left word with the family to report any change. Then 
some neighbor suggested that they give the baby tea, and he became 
very ill. The nurse again called every day and gave the baby care, 
but he did not improve and later died. 

"However, the work was well worth while, for the change in the 
rest of the family was wonderful. In place of coffee and buns every 
morning and noon, they now have cereals, vegetables, etc., and in 
consequence Mr. S., as well as the children, is better nourished and 
happier. 

"The daily routine of the nurses department involves: 

"Assisting the doctors in the examination of employees return- 
ing, to work after absence on account of illness. 

" Assisting in the dressings of surgical cases. 

"Administering to the employees sent to the rest rooms. 

"Calling of all employees who, at the doctors' request, have been 
scheduled for re-examination. 

"Assisting in the examination of new employees and those 
desiring to join the benefit association. 

"Assisting in the examination of those sent from their depart- 
ments for examination because of frequent absence or 
inability to keep up with their work. 

"Assisting in the care of relatives of employees, who, on account 
of financial conditions, are unable to obtain medical or 
hospital care. 

" Visiting sick employees in their homes. 

"The nurses answer calls made by the departments on all emergency 
and accident cases which are of such serious nature that they are un- 
able to come to the doctor's office alone and must be brought by means 



54 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

of wheel chairs or stretchers. Many of these cases are temporary 
conditions, such as dysmenorrhea, faints, headaches, etc., and after 
rest and care are frequently able to return to their work. 

"The routine examinations, however, often disclose cases of acute 
infection, such as typhoid, pneumonia, or those requiring surgical care. 
Provision is made for the care of these employees in hospitals, sanatoria, 
homes or other institutions, through co-operation with the welfare 
department, the family, and the family physician. In urgent cases, 
requiring immediate hospital care, the family and their physician (if 
they have one) are reached by telephone. This is followed by a call 
from the nurse, in order to assure the patient, who is usually concerned 
about conditions at home, and to allay the fears of relatives, as in the 
case of Mr R., who was sent to the doctor's office because he com- 
plained of pain in the right arm. He was examined and sent to the 
hospital with a diagnosis of cellulitis. 

"The nurse called at his home, to tell his wife, and found he had two 
children, one 2^ years and one nine months old. The oldest child 
had a temperature of 103.4, axillary, and was in a comatose condition; 
the other child had a temperature of 102.6, a sore throat and rash. 
The mother herself had a temperature of 99.8 and was tired out, as 
she had had no sleep for three nights. The nurse immediately gave 
both children sponge baths, to reduce their temperatures, prepared 
milk for them and instructed the mother how to give them the neces- 
sary care. She then returned to the plant and reported the case to 
one of the company physicians, who was also an infant welfare special- 
ist, and he went with her to the home to see the children. After 
prescribing treatment, he advised putting on a special nurse for one 
week. Through co-operation with the welfare department this was 
done, the firm paying for the nurse. At the end of the week both 
children were so much improved that the nurse left. However, a 
week later the older child became very ill again with a discharging ear 
and an enlarged cervical gland, so the nurse brought him in to the 
doctor's office, where the gland was opened. As this required subse- 
quent dressings, the nurse called daily, making 25 calls in all on the 
child, besides frequent visits to the hospital to let the child's father 
know of his condition. 

"The man is now back at work, his wife and children are in good 
health and all are very grateful to the firm for the interest shown and 
aid given. 

"The following illustrates the daily routine of the nurses at the plant 
and in the homes. 

"Usually morning duty is in the hospital. Possibly the first patient 
complains of headache. The temperature is taken and found normal, 
as is also the pulse; nothing abnormal about the throat. The patient 



THE NUESE IN INDUSTRY 55 

is taken to the doctor who prescribes aspirin or Seidlitz powder, and 
is then allowed to go to the rest rooms and lie down until better and 
feeling able to return to his department. 

"Perhaps the next patient coming in complains of stomach trouble, 
wishes to see the doctor and to have a thorough examination. He is 
very fearful of an ulcer of the stomach. He was not able to retain any 
of his dinner the night before; had just a 'common dinner,' consisting 
of pork, cabbage, potatoes, jelly cake and tea. This patient is referred 
at once to the doctor. 

"Last, but not least, comes a new employee, who must have height, 
weight, pulse, temperature, eye-test, personal and family history taken. 
He is asked to please take off his wraps and hang them on the back of 
the chair. From the effort he makes to find a chair in the next room, 
ignoring the one pointed out to him, and from his answer, 'Leedle bidt, 
missus not so much/ to the very common question, ' Do you speak 
English, mister?,' tne nurse is prepared for almost any sort of answers 
to her questions. 

" 'When were you vaccinated?' 

" 'Vacci-? Vacci-? Me no understand, missus.' 

" 'When did the doctor scratch your arm and put medicine in it?' 
The part of the arm is indicated. 

" 'No, sir. Me no got scratched.' 

" 'How many years have you been in America, Mister?' 
, " 'Four years maybe five, all right.' 

" 'When you came over on the boat, didn't the doctor on the boat 
scratch your arm and put medicine in it?' 

"A look of understanding dawns. He smiles and says, "Yes, sir. 
Me got it.' 

"Then, 'Do you read English, mister?' 

" 'Leedle bidt, all right.' 

" 'See that card hanging out there, with the letters on it?' 

" 'Yes, sir.' 

" 'See the red line?' 

" 'Yes, sir.' 

' 'Will you please read the letters on it?' 

"This is done, and, to be sure the letters have not been memorized 
while he has been awaiting his turn, the nurse says, ' All right. Now 
read them backward, with your left eye.' She places a shield over the 
right eye and wonders why the man gets up and slowly turns around, 
putting his knee on the chair and craning his neck over his shoulder; 
then it dawns upon her that he is really trying his best to read them 
'backward.' 

"So it goes through the morning with variations. 



56 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

"In the afternoon the nurse takes a list of the absent employees in 
her district and tries to visit as many as she can. 

"Call No. 1. Possibly this takes her to a neighborhood with which 
she is not familiar. She asks a youngster, 'Is this N. Place?' 
and receives the following answer: 'Naw, this ain't it. This is N. 
Avenue. Go down this way and jerk over, and that's it.' 

"She finds the street and number and learns that her patient lives 
on the third floor. When she inquires for her, she is told, 'No, she 
isn't in just now. She hasn't been feeling well, but is better to-day, 
so went for a walk.' The nurse is very glad to know that the patient 
is feeling better arid 'Will' she please report at the Doctor's Office 
in the morning?' 

"Call No. 2. On this call she finds her patient quite ill with a cold 
and sore throat. He is subject to two or three similar attacks during 
a winter. The tongue is badly coated; tonsils are very much enlarged, 
with very small, white patches. She inquires if the patient is under 
the care of a doctor. 'No. He has been taking hot drinks and used 
a gargle prescribed for the last attack, but hasn't any more left.' 
The patient is advised to take a cathartic, preferably castor oil; to 
gargle the throat with a hot solution of baking soda every two or three 
hours a teaspoonful to a glass of water; to drink as much water as 
possible; to get plenty of fresh air; to keep his dishes separate from 
those used by the other members of the family; and to be very 
careful of excretion from the throat and nose. If not better by noon, 
he is told to call his family doctor, and last, but not least, to see his 
own 'doctor or the doctor at the plant as to advice about tonsillectomy. 
In two days the employee reports, wishing to return to work, and is 
referred to the doctor. 

" Call No. 3. This patient is found to be very ill. He has had a 
stroke of paralysis, involving the entire right side, several days ago. 
He is in a semicomatose condition, and has just been made comfortable 
by a practical nurse, who is a relative. Evidently there is nothing that 
can be done for the patient at this time. The nurse tells the wife that 
if there is anything she can do, she will be very glad to do it. The wife 
replies, ' No, there isn't anything to-day.' 
' ' Very well, I'll call again tomorrow.' 

" On revisit, the following day, the patient's condition is apparently 
the same. The pulse seems of a fairly good quality, slightly irregular; 
respirations seem to be Cheyne-Stokes type. The patient has been 
lying on a davenport, and his wife is very anxious to have him moved 
to the bed, but the nurse (at the home) is not feeling well and, ' Will 
you please help?' The wife is asked if she has the doctor's permission 
to move the patient and she says, ' Yes, he thought it a very good idea/ 
The nurse suggests the placing of the bed, so the best light and venti- 



THE NURSE IN INDUSTRY 57 

lation are obtained. The bed is made up with an oilcloth protector 
and draw sheet, and instructions are given as to how to remove the 
sheet with least discomfort to the patient. Blankets are placed in 
readiness to place the patient between for a bath. Fellow employees 
soon come to help move the patient to the bed. His condition does not 
seem any worse because of having been moved, and he is allowed to 
rest for a short time before given the bath. A sponge bath and alcohol 
rub are given, and the patient is made as comfortable as possible. 
The bedding is adjusted so that the weight will not be too much on 
the extremities, and the wife is told that if help is needed again, the 
nurse will be very glad to come. 

" In the meantime, some observing forelady at the plant has noticed 
the condition of the head of one of her employees and has sent her to 
the hospital. The girl's head is inspected by one of the nurses and 
found to be in need of treatment at once. It is necessary to cut some 
of the hair and apply ointment to the scalp where the skin has been 
scratched, and the first of a series of treatments is given. The girl 
is sent home and told to leave her head just as it is; that a nurse will 
call in the morning to give another treatment. 

"In the morning the nurse, armed with gown, gloves, tooth picks 
and ointment, makes the promised call. She finds that there is no 
kerosene in the house and has to wait until someone goes out to buy 
some. There is quite an improvement in the condition of the head. 
After all her articles are laid in readiness, the nurse proceeds to relieve 
the head of as much vermin as she can, then applies more ointment to 
abrased area, saturates the hair with equal parts of olive oil and kero- 
sene, and ties up the head, with instructions to leave it that way for 
four or five hours, then to fine comb the hair and wash with warm 
water and soap, and, when nearly dry, to apply hot vinegar and use the 
fine comb again. This treatment is to be continued for two more days ; 
then the girl is to report at the hospital. Before leaving the home, 
the nurse makes sure that the rest of the family is going to be taken 
care of in the same way, if necessary. 

" In all of the examinations made at the hospital, the nurse can be 
of great assistance to the company physician by conserving his time 
and preventing duplication of work. As it is impossible for the physi- 
cian to see all cases coming to the doctor's office, it is the duty of the 
nurse to select only such cases as it is absolutely necessary for him to 
see. The nurse should make sure: 

"First. That the physician has all the data concerning patient's 
home, financial and working conditions. 

" Second. That he has a complete record of all previous medical, 
surgical or dental examinations; also any family medical history 
that might aid him in making his diagnosis and in recommending such 



58 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

disposition of the case as would be to best advantage of both the 
employee and his employers. 

"In well-organized medical departments of large concerns, one nurse 
is usually assigned to follow up tuberculous cases only. It is not just 
the case of the tuberculous employee; the whole family must be ex- 
amined for possible infected contacts; home conditions must be looked 
into and changed, if necessary, and the family instructed as to home 
and personal hygiene. The home of Mr. 0. is a case in point. 

"Mr. O., who had been placed in a sanatorium, wrote as follows: 

'I desire to inform you that on Tuesday, September 25th, I left the F. A. 
Hospital and came home, after spending 15 months in the institution. For the 
past three months I have been confined to bed because of high fever, so I decided 
that as my progress was none, it was as advantageous to come home as remain 
in the institution, since there, I must confess, improvement is rather slight. 

'In conclusion, I will say that I am very grateful to S., R. and Co. for the effort 
put forth in bringing about my recovery, also I am highly pleased with the medical 
department for the kindness shown on all occasions.' 

"A few days after his return home, the company physician and nurse 
were called and found the patient had developed a discharging right 
pyothorax, necessitating his return to bed. The nurse made daily 
calls to dress the wound and give bedside care. 

"The efforts of the nurse to instruct Mrs. O. will best illustrate the 
difficulties encountered in attempting this hygienic education. 

"Mrs. O. seemed to think that the care given by the nurse was suffi- 
cient, and it seemed almost impossible to make her realize that Mr. O. 
should be bathed frequently, and that the bed should be kept neat 
and clean. After explaining in detail just what to do, to make Mr. O. 
comfortable, the nurse would be answered hi the following manner : 

" 'Sure, whin he do be in good hilth, he always washed his face and 
hands ivery mornin' before goin' to woork. He always looked so 
nice the neighbors often wundered how he could git out of this dirty 
hole lookin' so foine. Nurse, I don't think it would be nicessary to 
wash him ivery day now. He never shwits. Sure, he could wear a 
pair of socks for a long toime and they do be niver shtiff with the dirt.' 

"As it seemed impossible to persuade Mrs. O. to give the patient 
proper care, he was induced to return to the sanatorium, where he 
now is. 

"Qualifications of the Industrial Nurse. The nurse intending to 
take up industrial work should have as her foundation training in a 
good general hospital, and, in addition to this, some experience in 
other forms of public health nursing, as this is almost as essential. 
She should be in good physical condition; have patience, tact and 
sympathy, acting as the employer's representative, both at the plant 
and in the home, in bringing aid and comfort to his injured or sick 



THE NURSE IN INDUSTRY 59 

employee; she must have insight and wisdom, in order to interpret 
correctly the employer to the employee, and vice versa. 

".In the last five or six years much has been done in the field of in- 
dustrial nursing, and many nurses have taken up this work. About 1)^ 
years ago the Chicago Industrial Nurses Club was organized, and it 
now has an enrolled membership of between 65 and 70 nurses, all of 
whom are employed in industries in Chicago. While this shows 
clearly the possibilities of the future development of this branch of 
public health work, as yet it has simply cleared the way to larger 
horizons, and it is to the industrial nurse of to-day that we must look 
to create the standard for industrial nursing. To her is given the 
opportunity to make the work so valuable, not only to the employee, 
but to the employer, that she will be considered an integral part of 
any plans made by him for the health and welfare of his employees." 



CHAPTER V 
EMPLOYEES DENTAL SERVICE 

The medical and surgical dispensary in industry is not considared 
complete unless it provides some form of dental service for the em- 
ployees. For several years a number of our best industrial clinics 
have included dentists on their staffs. In this respect they have 
taken a more advanced scientific position than the majority of our 
medica' dispensaries connected with medical colleges. 

During the last ten years Billings, Rosenow, Davis, Dick and many 
other investigators have absolutely proven that foci of infection hid- 
den in different parts of the body are the actual cause of many on- 
stitutional diseases. The commonest sites for hidden infection are 
about the teeth. As a result, the medical profession now includes a 
careful examination of the teeth as a definite part of the systematic 
physical examination of the patient. Closer co-operation , with the 
dentist has been established and just as the internist refers his 
gall-bladder and diseased appendix cases to the surgeon for operation, 
so he refers his patients with infected mouths to the dentist for treat- 
ment. The x-ray has become the most valued ally of both the doc- 
tor and the dentist in discovering these foci of infection about the 
teeth. 

Physicians and surgeons connected with industries were among 
the first to recognize the great economic value of properly supervis- 
ing and caring for the employee's teeth. These men who had advanced 
industrial sanitation to such an extent now realized that the same 
laws of sanitation must be applied to the individuals. The work of 
the dentist in industry is quite analogous to that of the sanitary in- 
spector. His inspections, however, are limited to the employees' 
mouths and his corrective measures are directed to cleaning up the 
dirty teeth. No medical school of to-day which prides itself upon its 
efforts to teach preventive medicine can longer afford to neglect the 
establishment of a dental department in its dispensary. 

During the year prior to the establishment of a dental clinic in the 
concern with which the author was connected, 1100 employees re- 
ported to the doctor's office on account of toothache, abscessed teeth, 
or some other- condition traceable directly to the teeth. It was 
necessary to send many of these employees to an outside dentist for 
emergency treatment. Because of the lack of adequate supervision of 

60 



EMPLOYEES DENTAL SERVICE 61 

these cases, many of them were satisfied with the immediate relief 
and failed to continue the treatment until permanent relief was 
obtained. Naturally recurrences were common and such employees 
lost considerable time from work. Even if no actual time away 
from the plant was lost, yet a workman with a toothache has a very 
questionable efficiency. It was impossible to obtain actual figures as 
to the financial loss this concern was sustaining due to diseased teeth 
among the workers, but sufficient data were collected to convince 
the management that a dental clinic would be a great economy. 

The prevalence of unclean mouths among the employees due to 
decayed teeth, pyorrhea, hidden abscesses and other like conditions 
is shown by the reports of the examinations of applicants for work 
by different surgeons. Dr. Irving Clark found that 92 per cent, of all 
applicants showed some diseased condition and this high disability 
rate was due chiefly to faulty mouth conditions. The reports from my 
clinic showed that approximately 90 per cent, of the applicants had 
some dental defects. The Life Extension Institute reports 98 per cent, 
of the people examined by their doctors showed physical defects and 
practically all of these were due to diseased conditions of the mouth 
alone or combined with other conditions. 

I recently had the opportunity of examining 16,000 draftees who 
were placed in "limited service class" because of some physical dis- 
ability and were ordered to report to Syracuse Recruit Camp. Over 
4000 of these young men had been placed in limited service because 
of diseased teeth or because of an insufficient number of teeth. Approxi- 
mately 500 of them had plates and over 200 had lost all of their upper 
and lower teeth. Approximately 70 per cent, of the contingent sent 
from the New England States had fine physiques, and their only 
defects were due to the teeth, many of these having lost all of their 
upper or lower teeth or both. Such figures clearly prove that as a 
nation we are neglecting the care of the children's teeth and when they 
reach the age to voluntarily seek dental care, it is too late and the 
dentist is forced to his last resort, namely, extraction. 

The above figures conclusively demonstrate the prevalence of 
diseased teeth. The spirit of prevention should certainly force every 
physician in industry to attack this problem with renewed energy 
and his greatest ally should be a qualified dentist working with him 
in the plant. 

In 1914 I found approximately 20 industrial concerns were giving 
some form of dental service to their employees. Dr. Lee K. Frankel, 
in 1916, sent a questionnaire to several industries for the purpose of 
ascertaining the number giving dental service to employees and the 
kind of treatment given. He received replies from 27 establishments 
all of whom either employed dentists or had some arrangement with 



62 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



outside dentists. Dr. Selby in his recent investigations, conducted 
by personal visits to a great number of industries, found that quite a 
number were paying considerable attention to the care of the employees' 

teeth. 

The various systems in vogue in different industries can be classi- 
fied as follows: 

1. Dentists employed on part or full time; a fully equipped dental 
office in connection with the plant; dental service given to the em- 
ployees at the company's expense and on the company's time. 

The dental service given consists of: (a) Examination, cleaning, 
filling, bridge, crown and plate work and extraction; (6) examination 




Pro. 12. Tooth-brush drill conducted by the company nurse. 

Iron Co.) 



(Colorado Fuel 



and cleaning only, with the necessary dental work performed by out- 
side dentists under supervision of the plant dentist; (c) examination 
only, with supervision of the necessary dental work performed by the 
outside dentist. 

2. Dentists employed by industries; a fully equipped dental office 
in connection with the plant; dental service given at employee's 
expense but on the company's time. 

Frankel found at least six concerns operating under this system. 
The dental service given extends all the way from examination with 
complete dental operations to examinations and cleaning only. The 
service and the material used, such as gold and porcelain crowns, 
material for filling, etc., are furnished at cost. 

3. Arrangements made with outside dentists, or dental dispensaries, 
to furnish dental service at a reduced rate to the employees. 

Practically all of the concerns using this system have their own 



EMPLOYEES DENTAL SERVICE 63 

medical staffs. The doctors examine the teeth at the time of physical 
examination of employees and refer those needing dental service to 
the outside dentist or the dispensary. 

4. At least three industries furnish free dental service to the 
children of employees. The visiting nurses of these concerns have been 
thoroughly trained in examining the teeth of the children and are in- 
structed to refer all needing dental care to the dental clinic at the plant. 
These nurses likewise give lectures to the mothers and children on 
dental hygiene and instruct them concerning the proper use of the 
toothbrush (Fig. 12). 

Practically all of the industries operating under the above systems 
give lectures and individual instruction to the employees concerning 
dental hygiene. Some of them furnish toothbrushes and mouth 
washes at cost to their people. 

The equipment of the dental offices in most places is very complete. 
A few concerns have even installed re-ray machines for radiographic 
examinations. Those giving complete dental service must naturally 
have more chairs and more elaborate equipment than those simply 
making examinations, and then supervising the treatment given by 
outside dentists. 

Dr. Frankel's description of the dental clinic at the home office 
of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, gives an excellent illus- 
tration of this form of employee's service. 

"The clinic was opened July 1, 1915. The equipment was the best 
obtainable. It included : 

''Four S. S. White Evans-Forsythe Dental Units, which consists 
of chair, bracket, engine, cuspidor, and compressed air attachment. 

"Four S. S White Lyons operating stools. 

"Four electric spray heaters. 

"One Ritter Columbia dental chair. 

"One Ritter dental engine. 

"One electro-dental switchboard. 

"One Waugh radiographic machine and lead screen. 

"Two sterilizing outfits. 

"Four small cabinets. 

"One large dental cabinet. 

"One metal and glass linen cabinet. 

"Complete set of instruments, towels, bibs, etc. 

"It was planned that the work should be limited to a careful exami- 
nation and cleansing of the employees' teeth each six months. The 
results of the examination are charted and copies of the charts are given 
to the employees, indicating what subsequent treatment will be nec- 
essary by their own dentists. 

"A follow-up system was inaugurated to ascertain whether the neces- 



64 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGER}" 

sary attention is given. No attempt was made to require or compel 
employees to come to the clinic. From time to time addresses were 
delivered by the dentists in charge to the employees, indicating the 
value of proper care of the teeth. 

"There are approximately 5000 employees in the company's service 
at the home office; 2870 treatments were given to 2707 patients in 
the first six months, July 1, 1915, to Dec. 20, 1915. In the second 
'six months 3383 treatments were given to 2843 patients. In the 
first six months the average tune required for examination and cleansing 
was approximately sixty-six minutes. With the experience gained 
by the dentists in charge this was reduced so that in the second six 
months the average time was forty-nine minutes. The average time 
required is constantly decreasing. Viewed month by month this is 
shown very clearly. In January, 1916, the average time was. sixty- 
three minutes, in February fifty-four minutes, in March fifty-three 
minutes, in April forty-eight minutes, in May forty-seven minutes, 
and in June thirty-five minutes. 

"The clinic is in charge of Dr. Thaddeus P. Hyatt, who has under 
him four assistants and a radiographer. Seven women are employed 
in the dental clinic as assistants to the dentists, as telephone operator, 
in the sterilizing room, etc. All the dentists are full-time employees 
with the exception of Dr. Hyatt. The service given to the. employees 
is free and on the company's time. 

"I am giving you, herewith, the statistics for the second six months, 
namely: Jan 1, 1916, to June 30, 1916, as these are probably more 
indicative than would be those in the first six months of the service. 
In this time prophylactic treatment was given to 2315 patients and 
emergency care to 528 additional patients, making a total of 2843 
patients cared for in the period. The average time for emergency 
cases twenty-one and one-half minutes. Under this term is included: 
treatment for abscess, pyorrhea, exposed pulp, gingivitis, pulpitis, 
pericementitis, infected tooth socket, toothache, and extractions and 
consultations. 

"The cost of the entire service was $7229, or an average of $3.00 
per hour, and an average per patient of $2.33. Subdividing the pro- 
phylactic work from the emergency work the cost per patient for the 
former is $2.46 and for the emergency work the cost per patient was $ 1 .06. 
Assuming that employees accept service of this kind each six months, 
the cost per treatment per patient per annum would, of course, be dou- 
ble the figure given per employee treated. 

"The results even thus far obtained are of considerable interest: Of 
the clerks who appeared in the first six months, 1637 who showed cavi- 
ties on the first examination reappeared during the second six months. 
These clerks on the original examination had 7753 cavities or an aver- 



EMPLOYEES DENTAL SERVICE 65 

age of 4.6 cavities per person. During the interval between the first 
and second examination 916 clerks (56 per cent.) out of the 1637 
who had cavities had 2936 fillings made, or an average of 3.2 fillings 
per clerk. 

"There are other evidences of improvement although they are not 
of such importance. At the tune of the first examination 3.9 per cent, 
of the clerks did not use a toothbrush. At the second examination it 
was found that this had been reduced to 2.9 per cent. At the time of 
the first examination 32.9 per cent, of the clerks did not show clean 
mouths. At the second examination only 22.5 per cent, showed such 
condition." k 

In June, 1914 a dental department for employees was established 
in connection with the doctor's office in a concern employing at that 




FIQ. 13. The Dental Office, an essential adjunct to the Industrial Dispensary. 
(Courtesy Sears, Roebuck & Co.) 

time approximately 12,000 people. The full-time service of a dentist 
was secured at first but this was later changed to the part-time service 
plan one dentist spending four hours in the morning at the plant and 
another dentist four hours in the afternoon. Each dentist was paid 
a salary of $150 a month for this part-time service. The mistake 
which many concerns have made is in endeavoring to secure cheap 
dental service for their employees. A really good dentist cannot 
afford to give all of his time to an industry for less than $300 a month. 
The work of the dentists consisted in examining the teeth of all appli- 
cants for work referred to them by the doctors, whose duty it was to 
thoroughly examine the mouth, and to examine the teeth of all old 
employees, department after department, as rapidly as possible. Em- 
ployees needing dental care were furnished with a card showing the 
dental work needed and were referred to their family dentist or to a 
dentist in the neighborhood in which they resided. The plant dentist 

5 



66 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

would then supervise this dental work and by every possible means short 
of compulsion would persuade the employees to continue treatment 
until permanent relief was afforded. Most of this dental work was per- 
formed at night but when it was necessary for the employee to report 
to his dentist in the daytime, this was done on the company's time. 
Those stating that they could not afford to pay for proper dental 
care were given a loan of money by the company, said loan being 
repaid at the rate of 25^ to 50^ a week. 

This dental service has become very popular with the employees 
and the results obtained, especially the decreased loss of time from 
work due to diseased teeth, has more than paid for the cost of the 
dental department. 

In the six months of 1914, 391 employees were cared for by the 
dental department; in 1915, 6081 employees; and in 1916, 8502 em- 
ployees received this service. These figures clearly demonstrate 
the need for a dental department; that such service is looked upon 
with increasing favor by the working force is evident. 

This is only another method whereby the employer can express a 
friendly interest in his employees. The returns from such service 
are shown by decreased time loss from work, a more efficient working 
force, and better health and generally increased morale on the part of 
the employees. 



CHAPTER VI 

A PRACTICAL SYSTEM OF INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND 

SURGERY 

A DETAILED OUTLINE OF THIS WORK IN ONE LARGE INDUSTRY 

In the metropolis of the middle west industrial medicine and sur- 
gery, as it is known in its broadest aspects, has become a recognized 
specialty. Here, in Chicago, at least forty of the larger concerns have 
developed some system of this work far superior to the old-time plan 
of a company surgeon simply to bandage the injured. 

Co-operation between the employers, employees and the various 
medical staffs has resulted in the rapid growth of this new specialty, 
and to-day the doctrine of human conservation is fairly established in 
this city. The practical application of this doctrine is yet far from 
completion. 

Here you see the Manufacturers Association holding joint meet- 
ings with the Industrial Surgeons Association, the Labor Organi- 
zations doing likewise, and all of these being represented on the 
Committee on Factories of the Chicago Tuberculosis Institute, the 
purpose of which is to extend this work into all industries. Six of 
the largest concerns have built shacks at Naperville for the free care 
of then* tuberculous employees. Thirty-eight concerns have jointly 
bought a thousand acres of land in New Mexico and established the 
Valmora Sanatorium for the care of their more advanced tuberculous 
employees. 

But other cities and states are rapidly overtaking Chicago in this 
great work. Pennsylvania, Ohio, Massachusetts, Wisconsin, Cali- 
fornia, and a few other states, through their departments of Labor 
and Industry, have given a wonderful impetus to this work, and no 
longer can any one locality claim to be a leader without having the 
point well and vigorously disputed. 

One of these industries in Chicago, employing over 15,000 men 
and women, has developed a system of industrial medicine and sur- 
gery which embodies most of the good points of the various plans. 
Therefore a rather detailed outline of the medical work in this indus- 
try is herewith submitted. 

The doctor's office has nineteen rooms finished in the most up-to- 
date manner, and located on the top floor of the main building away 
from all noise and dirt. Every room, except three, has outside win- 
dow light. These rooms are for the following purposes: one large 

67 



68 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



general waiting room; one large office and record room; one private 
office for the chief of staff; one private office for the superintendent 
of nurses two history rooms; four examination rooms (one equipped 
for nose and throat examinations) ; a laboratory; a drug room; two well 
equipped surgical dressing rooms; a sterilizing room; two rest rooms; 
and two toilet and bath rooms. 

The medical staff consists of nine physicians, two dentists, and 
twelve nurses during the busy seasons, and drops down to seven doc- 




FIQ. 14. A view from the Doctor's Office. (Sears, Roebuck & Co.) 

tors during the summer. An oculist is on the staff but does not spend 
any time at the plant. Each doctor spends three and one-half hours 
at the plant, so rotating that during the busy morning hours there are 
at least four physicians in attendance, the remainder filling in the rest 
of the day. 

Recently a full-time woman physician has been added to the staff. 
Her work among the girl employees has more than demonstrated the 
great advantage of having a diplomatic, well-balanced woman physi- 
cian to handle many of the problems presented by the girls, 



A PRACTICAL SYSTEM OF INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 69 

Practically every one of these doctors is a specialist in some line 
of medicine or surgery, and his work at the plant is largely along this 
special line. Thus two good surgeons are represented; an orthopedic 
specialist is of the greatest value in many of these cases; a specialist on 
skin and venereal diseases is in constant demand for diagnosis, es- 
pecially in differentiating between certain skin lesions and the actue 
contagious eruptions; a specialist on nervous and mental diseases, 
who is also a good diagnostician, conducts many of the examinations 
of applicants for work. Such a specialist is of the greatest value in 
fitting handicapped individuals to the proper job. A tuberculosis 
expert, an internist and a gynecologist are also included on the staff. 
These men are well-trained, broad-gauged industrial physicians during 
their three and one-half hours at the plant, capable of doing any work 
that usually falls to the plant physician. The remainder of the day 
they have free to themselves to develop their special line of work, 
and incidentally they are becoming more valuable to the concern 
because of this development. 

The salaries paid these men are good, but the concern could not 
employ them for full time without an outlay that would make it pro- 
hibitive. But two good men, experts in their line of work and of con- 
siderable reputation in their community, can be employed for part 
time and their combined salaries do not exceed what the concern 
would pay for one mediocre physician giving his full time to the work. 

The chief surgeon of this industry likewise devotes three and a 
half hours of his time at the plant. In the afternoon he operates on 
the major cases sent to the hospital and visits all such cases already 
in the hospital. When necessary he visits the employees in their 
homes. The administration of this work takes most of his tune while 
at the plant. 

None of the medical staff is allowed to accept as private patients 
any of the employees of this concern. This is necessary to remove the 
idea of any selfish motive on the part of the doctor when he strongly 
urges them to undergo some remedial work. An exception to this 
rule is when some one of the managerial force desires such service 
from one of the staff during the period he is away from the plant. 

The duties of this medical staff can be outlined as follows : 

1. Emergency treatment for all injured employees. 

2. Subsequent daily dressings of injured. 

3. The care of major surgical cases in the outside hospital. 

4. Free surgical care for those who cannot afford to pay for proper 
care, or for minor conditions which would be neglected if the employee 
was referred to his family physician. 

5. Free surgical care for all cases where the responsibility for their 
cause is doubtful. 



70 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

6. Free surgical care for members of the employee' family where 
the nurse's report, or findings of the welfare department, show a dire 
need for aid. 

7. The medical examination of every applicant for work and co- 
operation with the employment department to place the handicapped 
in suitable occupations. 

8. The examination of old employees: 

(a) Those returning to work after an absence on account of illness. 
(&) Those seeking a pass home on account of illness. 

(c) Those slated for re-examinations because of some pre-exist- 
ing condition. 

(d) Those seeking medical advice because they have learned to 
use the doctor's office, or on the suggestion of their floor 
manager (usually because they "look bad," are "slo wing-up" 
in their work, poor attendance, etc.). 

(e) Those referred from the surgical department for examinations. 
(/) Those examined for membership in the benefit association. 
(0) Those working in hazardous occupations. Monthly re- 
examinations are made of all exposed to occupational diseases. 

9. Supervision of those needing medical treatment until they are 
placed under the care of the family physician or in outside hospitals. 

10. Medical treatment where investigation shows they are not 
receiving proper care. 

11. Medical treatment furnished free for all tuberculous employees, 
syphilitic and gonorrheal cases, and for those needing expensive, 
special medical care but who cannot afford to pay for it. 

12. Emergency medical care for the acutely sick or for those with 
some temporary condition which medical treatment will relieve at 
once and allow them to return to work. 

Every case must be handled as an individual and no hard and fast 
rules can be laid down which will cover every condition arising during 
the day's work. 

13. Periodical sanitary inspections of the plant. 

14. Supervision of the ventilation, lighting, control of dust, care 
of cuspidors and toilets, and all other conditions tending to promote 
health. 

15. Co-operation with the safety engineer in the prevention of 
accidents. 

16. Health and accident prevention talks and letters. 

17. Fumigation of departments where contagious cases have devel- 
oped, and constant watchfulness for new contagious cases. 

18. Co-operation with the visiting nurses to relieve conditions found 
in the homes. 

19. Co-operation with the city health authorities, the Tuberculosis 



A PRACTICAL SYSTEM OF INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 71 

Institute, and with all family physicians for the protection of the 
patient and the community. 

20. Co-operation with the welfare department to see that condi- 
tions revealed by the medical work are corrected in each individual 
case, as, faulty home conditions, lack of proper food and clothing, 
insufficient wage, lack of recreation, misfits in jobs, trouble between 
a boss and an employee, and numerous other conditions tending to 
undermine the health of the workers. 

The two dentists each spend four hours at the plant. Their duties 
are: 

1. The examination of all applicants found with bad teeth and 
referred to them by the medical staff. 

2. The examination of the teeth of all old employees. 

3. Recommending necessary work to be done, and charting this 
on a card which the employee is told to take to his family dentist. 

4. Co-operation with the family dentist to see that work is com- 
pleted and reasonable charge for the same is made and paid for. 

5. Co-operation with the welfare department to arrange loans 
when necessary so that the family dentist can be properly paid at 
once. The employee repays the firm in weekly installments of fifty 
cents each. 

6. Periodical re-examinations to see that work recommended for 
teeth has been done or is in progress, as well as to see that all pro- 
phylactic care is being carried out as directed. 

7. Consultation work with the medical staff in running down 
hidden foci of in ections. 

The oculist on the staff receives cases sent to him from the plant. 
The ordinary Snellen test is made at the plant dispensary and those 
falling below a certain standard are referred to the oculist. The latter 
examines these cases and corrects all with faulty vision. A loan 
arrangement is made with the employee whereby he can pay the 
oculist a reasonable charge and then repay the firm as described 
under dental cases. The details of this work are described in 
Chapter XXV. 

The nurses devote all their time to the work. Their duties are 
indicated in the following outline: 

1. All twelve nurses spend their mornings at the plant. In the 
afternoon eight of them visit sick employees residing in their prescribed 
districts. 

2. Two assist the surgeons in the surgical dressings. They also 
prepare and sterilize all dressings. 

3. Four are engaged in history taking and the eye tests. This is 
done on every case before being referred to the doctors. 

4. Two are present in the girls' examining rooms at all times. 



72 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

5. One nurse is in charge of the drug room, issuing medicine only 
on the order of the doctors. 

6. One is in charge of the rest rooms. It is her duty to see that 
every employee going to the rest rooms receives every attention pos- 
sible, does not take advantage of this as a means of loafing, and that 
any case needing medical care is brought to the attention of the doctor. 

7. The superintendent of nurses and her assistant are busy in the 
administration of this machinery. It is their duty to see that every 
employee is waited on immediately without undue loss of time from 
his work. 

The visiting nurses' work in the afternoon: 

1. It is the duty of each nurse to visit as many of the sick em- 
ployees in her distr ct as possible during the afternoon. In order to 
do this all calls are restricted to those employees who have been absent 
at least three days, and only periodical calls are made on those absent 
with long illnesses. " 

2. The nurse ascertains the condition of the patient, the nature 
of illness, if adequate medical or surgical care is being given, the name 
of the family physician, the home conditions, and if any special care 
is needed to insure the patient's recovery. Whenever necessary the 
nurse renders nursing care, such as a sponge bath, changing of the 
bed, instructing the mother or wife in food preparation, etc. 

3. The nurse reports on these facts at once by telephone if urgent 
or the next morning on her return to the plant. 

4. By co-operation with the welfare department special nursing 
care is given to a sick employee when these reports show the need. 
Or, based on the findings of the nurse, the patient may be removed to 
a hospital and further treatment rendered by the medical staff of the 
plant. Food, ice, bed-clothing, and many other necessities of the 
sick-room are supplied when ready money for these is lacking. 

5. Reports on faulty housing conditions are investigated, and by 
diplomacy, education, and the judicious use of money, often in the 
form of increased wages, the family is moved into healthier, more 
sanitary surroundings. 

An expert laboratory girl is in charge of a well-equipped labora- 
tory (Fig. 15). Her duties can thus be classified: 

1. Urinalyses. Every applicant for work and every old employee 
given a thorough medical examination likewise has a specimen of 
urine examined. Re-examinations, two or more times, of the urine 
are made whenever a pathological condition is found in order to be 
positive of that condition before a report of the same is made to 
the employee. 

Five years ago the specimen from one of the managers was ex- 
amined and found to contain sugar in large quantity. He was told 



A PKACTICAL SYSTEM OF INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 73 

that he had diabetes. The next day he went to his family physician 
who failed to find anything wrong. After seeing three good inter- 
nists, all of whom reported the urine negative, he presented himself 
before the chief surgeon. The examination at this time was also nega- 
tive. This man's indignation over the scare and expense he had 
been subjected to was a source of great embarrassment to the doctor's 
office. It takes months to live down one little mistake like this, 
which all doctors know is liable to occur, and therefore every precau- 
tion is taken to avoid them. 




FIG. 15. Laboratory in connection with Doctor's Office. 

Specimens of urine for examination are secured from the men 
directly in the examining rooms where special arrangements have been 
made for this purpose. The women's specimens are obtained in the 
toilet room before going to the examining rooms. A boy and a girl 
respectively carry these specimens, properly marked, in a covered 
wire compartment basket to the laboratory. 

2. Blood Analyses. Every employee examined whose condition 
indicates the need of it is given a thorough blood examination in the 
laboratory on the order of the doctor. This includes red and white 
count, hemoglobin, differential count, and very frequently a "Wasser- 
mann test. 

3. Sputum Examination. The sputum of suspected tuberculous 
employees is submitted to repeated examinations. Frequently in 
cases, clinically tuberculous, as many as ten to twenty sputum ex- 
aminations are made before the bacilli are found. It is only by using 
the laboratory to its uttermost in this way that its full value is 
obtained. 

4. Bacteriological Examinations. Frequent use of the laboratory 
for ascertaining the nature of infections in the surgical cases is resorted 



74 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

to. But the greatest service has been rendered in the early differential 
diagnosis between severe tonsillitis and diphtheria. Every case with 
the least suspicious sore throat is subjected to a bacteriological exami- 
nation. Smears are examined at once and cultures prepared and 
incubated both at the plant and at the city health department. An 
average of one out of twenty of these cultures is positive for diphtheria 
but in its discovery the fellow employees are protected from this 
contagion. Many of these cases of diphtheria are very mild for the 
individual but could be the source of a very severe epidemic among the 
others. 

5. Stomach Analyses and fecal examinations are occasionally 
made but usually the employees are referred to an outside laboratory 
for this work. 

In every instance the family physician is given a copy of the labora- 
tory findings in order to aid him in diagnosing and treating the case. 
The average family physician has not the facilities for making these 
laboratory tests early in the course of the disease, and they are there- 
fore not usually made until the case becomes serious or evidence of 
a spread of contagion indicates their need. We are positive therefore 
that this laboratory has been the means of saving life many times. 
It is impossible to estimate the amount of lost time from work which 
it has saved. 

Example. Lulu M., an employee of this concern, became sick 
one night at home. The third day of her illness the nurse called. She 
found Lulu suffering from stomach trouble or ptomain poisoning, "the 
result of eating fish." The family doctor had been in to see her every 
day. The nurse reported that Lulu seemed very sick and her pain was 
all localized in her right side. She was sent back the next day and 
found Lulu's temperature much higher, the pain more severe and the 
abdomen distended. The family doctor was called but again stated 
that it was ptomain poisoning and that she would be all right in a few 
days. The chief surgeon of the plant was informed and he ordered 
the laboratory attendant to call and make a blood-count. This count 
showed 26,000 leukocytes. Consultation with the family physician 
was immediately demanded, and as a result he was convinced of the 
diagnosis of appendicitis with general peritonitis developing. The 
girl was referred to another surgeon and operated at once. The 
abdomen was filled with pus. The appendix was never found. Ex- 
tensive drainage saved her life, but five months elapsed before she was 
able to return to work. Her position was one in which an experienced 
girl meant everything to the work. 

Example. Nellie 0., another employee, took sick while at work. 
She was sent to the doctor's office but wanted to go right home as she 
was positive her abdominal cramps were due either to her approaching 



A PRACTICAL SYSTEM OF INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 75 

period or to fish she had eaten at lunch. The nurse, however, per- 
suaded her to be examined. The doctor found tenderness and rigidity 
over the appendix region. A blood-count was made and showed 
18,000 leukocytes. The young lady's family physician was called and 
acquainted with the facts. As Nellie had been told of the diagnosis 
and the importance of receiving immediate attention, her doctor 
suggested that she be sent to the hospital where he was accustomed to 
work. This was done (a taxicab being used for the purpose), and a 
nurse went to the girl's home and notified her mother. Four hours 
later Nellie was operated and a gangrenous appendix removed. She 
was back at work in three weeks. Nellie's home conditions were 
known, and the careless attitude of her family toward disease, and there 
is no question but what weeks of illness, if not her life, were saved by 
this prompt action. 

During 1916 there were 200 cases of appendicitis diagnosed in this 
way. Some of these, who had no family physician, or were boarding 
in the city, or for other reasons could not receive proper attention at 
home, were operated at once by the chief surgeon. The others were 
referred to their family physicians but were so closely followed up by 
the medical staff that proper surgical care was soon given in every 
case. None of these died. During this same period two deaths from 
appendicitis occurred among employees who had become sick while 
at home and therefore did not have the advantages of this scientific, 
diagnostic attention. 

Example. In one department tonsillitis became quite prevalent. 
The first four cases, however, developed the disease at home. The 
fifth came to the doctor's office. Smears were taken from the throat 
but showed nothing suspicious. However, cultures were made. 
The next morning a diagnosis was made of diphtheria. The family 
physician was notified and he gave antitoxin treatment at once. 
A nurse immediately called on the other girls and made smears and 
cultures. Three of these had diphtheria. The department was 
fumigated and every throat examined bacteriologically. Only one 
other case of diphtheria developed, although the people in that depart- 
ment were watched very closely. It is easily conceived that this 
prompt action aborted a more than incipient epidemic. 

An industrial medical and surgical service such as described needs 
a considerable clerical force to carry on this work. In addition to 
the medical and nursing staff this office employs one office manager, 
a private secretary to the chief of staff, four record clerks for the med- 
ical cases, one record clerk for the surgical cases, a girl who stamps 
the coming and going of each patient with a time clock (this is neces- 
sary where 500 and more employees visit the doctor's office during the 
day, to prevent undue loss of time from a patient being overlooked), 



76 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

and a girl in charge of telephones. Two colored matrons are in con- 
stant attendance to keep the offices clean. 

While this chapter is dealing with the specific medical and surgical 
work of an industrial plant, yet it is impossible to draw a line between 
this work and that of the so-called welfare department in many in- 
stances. The two must work in the closest co-operation. For that 
matter the profession is recognizing more and more the indispensable 
aid which social workers and all social movements are giving to medical 
treatment. 

Medicine, the exalted, has descended to a human plane, and in the 
industrial world and in many other places we are witnessing a marriage 
between medicine and sociology. 

In this concern the welfare department (which by the way is not 
known by that terminology) co-ordinates the work between the safety 
engineer and the medical staff, and authorizes the changes in plant 
sanitation recommended by the medical staff. All suggestions along 
the lines of industrial hygiene and individual hygiene are put into opera- 
tion or assisted by this department. It provides restaurant service 
for the employees and supervises the food preparation. It provides 
recreation rooms for the girls and various kinds of entertainments. 
For the men athletic fields, tennis courts, ball diamonds, and all types 
of healthful recreation are under this department's supervision. 

Investigations of housing conditions and co-operation with the city 
authorities and with other industries for the correction of faulty con- 
ditions come within the scope of this department and here it has a 
very definite connection with the medical and surgical work. 

Transportation problems, overcrowded street cars, ill-ventilated 
and cold cars; collection of garbage, cleaning of streets and alleys, 
sewage conditions, and all public health problems must be entered 
into by the welfare department, assisted by the medical staff, as a 
means of maintaining the health standards fixed by this industry. 

No system of industrial medicine can.be perfected that does not 
take cognizance of the conditions in the community from whence its 
employees come. 

To the uninitiated, or to the average employer thinking only of 
production, the large, expensive medical and welfare departments 
herein, outlined seem a rather extravagant, non-producing piece of 
machinery. No effort will be made to refute this impression, leaving 
that argument for a subsequent chapter. 

This establishment has endeavored to build up a comprehensive 
system for conserving its human machinery. Even the size of its staff 
is not sufficient to do all that should be done. For instance, much 
better results would be obtained if competent medical and surgical care 
were furnished at a reasonable price to every employee. The nursing 



A PRACTICAL SYSTEM OF INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 77 



staff should be enlarged so that a visit could be made on every employee 
the first day of his illness and as often thereafter as was indicated. A 
nearby hospital for the immediate care of serious cases would be much 
better than transporting them two or three miles to a general hospital. 
Many other improvements will suggest themselves to the industrial 
surgeon. 

The following table from the hospital report of this concern dem- 
onstrates the need of the present size of its medical staff: 

TABLE 1 
SUMMARY REPORT OF WORK OF MEDICAL STAFF 



Years 


1914 


1915 


1916 


1917 


Total number examinations 


12,380 


16,535 


24,826 


30,100 


Total Medical cases 


23,771 


28,009 


37,906 


37,900 


Total Surgical cases 


28,167 


25,944 


35,216 


33,481 


Total Dental cases 


391 


6,081 


8,502 


3,746 


Total Nurses visits 


5,470 


4,702 


6,374 


6,561 












Grand total 


70,179 


81,271 


112,824 


lll,788 l 













1 Decrease in amount of work due to reduced staff because of war service. 



78 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND STJEGERY 




CHAPTER VII 

BENEFITS AND PROFITS OF THE MEDICAL 
DEPARTMENT 

The ramifications and influences of a genuine human maintenance 
department in any industry are so intricate and subtle that it is im- 
possible to estimate in dollars and cents the tangible returns from such 
a system. The salaries of the doctors and nurses, the rental of the 
office space, the supplies used, the equipment, the outside hospital bills, 
and all other expenditures can be ascertained to an exactness and 
represent the cost to the employer of such a department. 

But when the employer endeavors to definitely determine or approxi- 
mately estimate the actual monetary returns from this investment he 
is soon hopelessly confused. 

How can he estimate the financial returns due to the increased 
efficiency of an employee who for years has been below par because of 
some chronic ailment which was discovered and removed by the med- 
ical department, thereby restoring this man to full producing capacity? 
During each succeeding year the number of these restored individuals 
throughout the working force is increased making his problem even 
harder. 

How can he estimate the returns from the cure of hundreds of 
employees suffering from imaginary diseases? These men and women 
imagining that they have heart disease, kidney trouble, "displaced" 
vertebrae, lung trouble, " ulcers," and numerous other conditions, 
ease-up on their work to protect their health. They move slowly, 
appear distraught, and worry incessantly over their condition. Some 
take time from work to go from doctor to doctor, while others shun 
a physician dreading to have their fears confirmed. These neuras- 
thenics make up a large proportion of the medical work of an industrial 
dispensary. Their efficiency is greatly reduced but to what extent 
it is impossible to say. The industrial surgeon examines and re- 
examines them, gains their confidence, and finally convinces them 
that no organic disease is present. This may be accomplished at once 
or it may take weeks of patient psychotherapy. But the buoyant 
spirits which replace the depression, the added "pep," the increased 
efficiency resulting, bring great returns to the employer returns of 
which he is seldom aware, and cannot compute. 

When a foreman is the victim of this neurasthenic condition he 

79 



80 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

can become a source of great loss to the employer. His worries and 
depression react on the men and women under him. It is a contagious 
condition. Many of his employees will develop imaginary ailments. 
Or the worried foreman grows irritable and is unjust; thus, the labor 
turn-over in that department increases and the productivity decreases. 
The foreman is censured by the management and this adds to his nerv- 
ous condition. An alert industrial surgeon soon learns to recognize 
such a situation and becomes the efficiency expert who remedies the 
trouble. But who can estimate the dollar and cent value of such work? 

What sum will the employer place in his debit column to represent 
the increased productivity resulting from the happier, more contented, 
healthier working force, the direct result of a human maintenance 
department such as has been described in the preceding chapters? 
When a concern adopts such a system it is usually due to an awakened 
conscience, a desire to improve the welfare of its employees. There- 
fore, many other betterment movements are installed besides the health 
department. Thus it is often impossible to separate the returns from 
the medical work from those of other types of welfare work. In a 
majority of industries, however, the medical department has been the 
forerunner and incentive for this additional work. 

Since our employer is unable to demonstrate actual financial gains 
from his medical department, it behooves industrial surgeons to show 
in some concrete form what benefits he may expect from such a 
system. Since these benefits must react to the good of both the 
employee and employer before either can receive full compensation, 
we must show them in terms of both. Table 2 endeavors to do this. 

Whenever an elaborate medical system is installed, both the em- 
ployer and the doctor expect to see, after a year or two, a reduction in 
the number of cases needing treatment. Both will be disappointed 
providing the medical department is successful and gains the full con- 
fidence of the employees. A medical service which can show such 
a reduction is failing in its purposes. 

It takes at least a year, and usually five years, before the company 
doctors gain the confidence of the working force. As this confidence 
increases the number of cases coming to the office for advice or treat- 
ment will increase. This is desirable for the greater number of em- 
ployees visiting the doctor's office affords a correspondingly greater 
supervision over their health. After a few years these employees 
develop the habit of coming to the doctor's office for threatened ail- 
ments instead of awaiting the full development of some diseased con- 
dition. This affords the opportunity of treating sickness in its earliest 
stage and aborting more serious trouble. The few minutes necessary 
to visit the doctor's office for this purpose is a great saving of time when 



BENEFITS AND PROFITS OF THE MEDICAL DEPARTMENT 81 











Is 




.2 ' c 1 - 








2 
















> 03 5 








_c 












00 




.+J t- 03 




















O3 




O >> 0? 03 








^* 












03 




& o . 








^ 












C 




"O "a, SK u o 








^r 












o 




'S . g g ^o ^ ** 


03 " 

















1 

"a 


'03 

o 

03 

T3 

O3 

03 




*j ^ 1 > "3 

J-s S i | g 1 1 

^ -d S 2 '3 S 

S >, bb 03 'S 

.2 53 _o ^ ? S ta 

^ AJ O G Q > *- 

1.S - M 1-s- 


03 
| 

"a 
S 

O3 

8 




mployees. 


nsation for 01 












O 




S -3 s op is 03 "3 






03 


03 










o 


*"" 




i -a a .3 m -& >> e 


"S 






a 










E-> 


1 




& ^ f 3 3 11 
* i 1 J 1 


1 




lo"S 


S 
o 
o 












, 


go 

t. 


U ^ 03 ^0,203 
03^ 03CS 


> 




03 -*^> 

(3 3 


ffi 
05 

71 


71 










O 


^ 


03 . - 52 o3y35SS5S 

^ P*^ 03 , 03 C3 w d 


03 




c O 


d 


/- 










3 


c 


s ."S 4)t - c "Su tH 


t^ 




O 03 


2 


^ 










'o> 


rs 


"5 J- ogn30'c 


U 




o o 


5 

m 


i 

v: 










tf 


& 




5 M 2 P hfc M ^ M 


dB 






Q 






g 







^ 




c^J co* TjJ 10 o 


i-' 




~ ci 


' 






1 


c 





C 




ti e AS 
,^3 2 .S s " 







O3 
C 






H 
J 

5 
h 


MAN MAINTENANCE DEPART 


SCOPE OF WORK AND THE BENEFI' 


To employees 


Discovers disease early more rapid a 


surer cure. 


Discovers organic disease which can 
controlled. Prevents overwork and h; 
ardous occupations for these. 
Prevents disease by discovering focal 
fections and danger signs. 
Protection from contagious disease. 
Suitable work according to physical c< 
dition. 
Prevents accident by removal of cause 
employee. 


Better medical care when sick. 
Better surgical care when injured. 


Reduces suffering, permanent disabili 
and death rate. 


Healthier and better working conditio 
Decrease in occupational diseases. 
Better home conditions by. influence 




P 
























W 






T-4 




1-^' CO' TjH 1C *O 


t^.' 00 


OS 


^ c^' 


CO 






W H << PH aPn PH PH 
^H C^J CO ^^ *O CO t*^ 




82 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



03 a .o 
3 &1 
g g-S 

T3 d "9 

.J 
S n 



o 



S 



43 O 

s I 

. zz o 

d g ? 

4) O 

32 

tg O bD 

<5 'S o 

+3 

*d 0> o 

i ra a 

a 2 

rzs gj p. 



"3 c3 o 

> 

P. ! -U 



3 3 



tf P 



u Gi 
oj ST 

O2 -rj 



.s 






'w 




03 






** ^ 


^ 




d -2 


O, 

c<i 

H 

a 
m 


o employee 


s S, 

3 -o g) 

O - rt w 

C3 g 
d ^ *-< 

I 

i a g 


5 


H 


^ 


H 




g ^ - 






03 






'1 |i 
ill 






PH PH P^ 







g 






'a 


03 




a 


Cj 




3 


.2 




-a 


V3 

31 


CO 


T3 
d 

o3 


* 


03 
Q 


-<j 


d w 




C 


S 1 

^ 1 

, ^3 


4) 
bO 

03 


o 

1 

o 

V 


Better car 
Improves 


Decreases 


Increased 



rH IN CO i-H 

















^c, 

bC 

.S 
'+j 


<a 

B 


43 














$ 




T3 




o 




^ 








y Work 
Safety appliances. 


Safety committees. 


Safety propaganda. 


Daily inspections. 
Investigation of acciden 


Ja 
k 
5 

OB 

CO 

1 


Visiting sick employees. 
Nursing aid when neede 


Assisting medical staff. 


loyees' Advisor's Work 
Investigating and corr 


working conditions ', ( 


conditions. 


Loans for employees. 
Building and loan work. 


Providing a living wage, 
Confidential advisor. 


R\ 








."^ 






A . 










SfH 


C^) 


CO 


* 1C 


.jo 


1-H <N 


CO 


g T-H 






<N CO 


* irj 



BENEFITS AND PROFITS OF THE MEDICAL DEPARTMENT 83 

compared with the few days or weeks which may result from neglect- 
ing minor symptoms. 

These same employees would not seek the counsel of their family 
physician, because of the expense, for these apparently trivial matters, 
whereas they will come to the doctor's office providing this confidence is 
established. With each succeeding year, therefore, the number of 
medical cases increases. The doctor soon learns to eliminate those who 
are taking advantage of the system. 

The medical cases not only increase but apparently the surgical 
cases likewise and this in spite of the fact that accident prevention 
methods are always installed wherever a human maintenance depart- 
ment is in existence. The safety first measures reduce the number of 
serious accidents, but the minor and so-called trivial injuries are almost 
impossible to prevent. But we can prevent infections and other serious 
complications from developing in these minor accidents. Experience 
has taught us that the greatest safety first measure for these minor 
injuries is the immediate reporting to the surgeon for proper treat- 
ment. In a concern, therefore, where the medical department is 
efficient each year will show an increase in the number of employees 
reporting for immediate care of all injuries no matter how trivial. 
In which case, each year will show a corresponding decrease in the 
number of infections resulting from injuries. 

In an industry employing an average of 12,000 men and women, 
which adopted an efficient medical and surgical system nine years ago, 
the following table illustrates the increased confidence of the employees, 
the better medical supervision, and the greater surgical preventive 
measures which developed with each succeeding year: 

TABLE 3 

Year Number of medical and surgical 

visits to doctor's office 

1909 14,643 

1910 17,889 

1911 22,400 

1912 48,000 

1913 56,720 

1914 70,179 

1915 - , . . . 81,271 

1916 112,824 

The question naturally arises, did not this great increase in the 
number of patients using the doctor's office make the cost of such a 
system prohibitive ? The best reply to this question is to submit the 
following comparative report of the cost of medical and surgical work 
for two years in this same concern: 



84 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

TABLE 4 
COST OF MEDICAL AND SURGICAL SUPERVISION OF EMPLOYEES 





1915 


1916 


Increase, 
per cent. 




11,068 

6 
1 
12 
32,800 
15,447 
4,137 

52,384 
4,702 
174 
2,666 
16,535 
$38,239.59 
$3.46 

81,271 


13,324 
1 

7 
1 
12 
43,766 
22,486 
6,870 

73,122 

6,374 
262 
3,341 
24,826 
$49,075.99 
$3.68 

112,824 


20.4 
16.7 

33.4 
45.6 
66.1 

39.6 
35.6 
50.6 
25.3 
50.1 
28.3 
6.4 

38.8 


"PKvaipionq pmnlftvpfl full time 




Phvsicisns engaged for call service 










Total medical and surgical visits to 


Home visits made by nurses 


Home visits made by doctors 


Hospital visits made by doctors 


Physical examinations made 


Total medical and surgical cost 


Average cost per emplovee . 


Total number of patients visiting doctor's 
office 





You will note that the per cent, of increase in the medical staff is 
below the per cent, of increase in the number of employees. The average 
amount of increase in the medical and surgical work is 43.2 per cent., 
while the increase in the total cost is 28.3 per cent. But the actual 
cost per employee for the year 1916 was only twenty-two cents more 
than for 1915. A cost of only $3.68 per employee per year for such an 
extensive amount of work is certainly not prohibitive. 

However, it is impossible to show in dollars and cents what the 
income amounted to from this work. We can only prophesy and 
estimate what the loss in time and loss in compensation might have 
been without it. Some of the sources of profit to this concern from 
their human maintenance department, however, can be classified as 
follows : 

1. An average of 500 applicants for work per year or 3.4 per cent, 
who had diseased conditions unfitting them for employment have 
been weeded out, thus reducing labor turn-over. 

2. One hundred and sixty-three cases of active tuberculosis were 
prevented from being employed during a period of three years, thus 
protecting the old employees, preventing loss of time due to the spread 
of the disease, reducing labor turn-over, and eliminating inefficient 
employees a group who would have had a gradual, imperceptible 
slo wing-up in their work. 

3. Discovering 263 cases of tuberculosis among the old employees 



BENEFITS AND PROFITS OF THE MEDICAL DEPARTMENT 85 

during the same period, the majority of whom were found in the in- 
cipient stage, thus accomplishing the same results set forth in 2. 

4. During the so-called "grip" epidemic of the winter of 1915 and 
1916 the medical work in this concern held the number of absentees 
down to 9 per cent, of the total working force during a period of four 
months. Whereas, several concerns had an absentee rate from 25 to 
33^ per cent, of their total number of employees during that epidemic. 

5. Labor turn-over has been reduced to a considerable extent in 
this industry, but as many other factors enter into this the medical 
work can only be given credit for a part of this reduction. 

6. The number of infections following injuries has been reduced 
from 28.6 per cent, in 1912 to 7.57 per cent, in 1916. The time lost 
from infections in 1912 amounted to 1987 days, or an average of 2^ 
days per case, while time loss from this cause in 1916 amounted to 
816 days, or an average of 1^ days. This was accomplished in spite 
of the fact that the working force had increased approximately one- 
fourth during the same period. This represents a saving of some 
$3000 in wages and approximately $5000 in hospital bills, compensa- 
tion, etc. 

7. Because of this health supervision and preventive surgery 
a few deaths are prevented every year. On an average of twice 
every year the medical supervision has prevented this concern from 
being blamed with a death for which they were in nowise responsible, 
thus saving either compensation for loss of life or long and expensive 
litigation. 

Example. The visiting nurse reported that an ex-employee was 
in a hospital dying. His doctor had diagnosed lead poisoning and 
blamed his work hi the printing department for the condition. Ref- 
erence to his records showed that he had been examined in the doctor's 
office several times. A low grade nephritis had been diagnosed. There 
was also a history of syphilis The man quit his job, and the company 
surgeon had lost track of his case for several months. Consultation 
with the attending physician was sought and granted. The 
examination of the patient at this time showed a saddle anesthesia, 
a three plus Wassermann reaction in the spinal fluid, and other symp- 
toms justifying a definite diagnosis of cerebrospinal syphilis. Lead 
poisoning was ruled out to the satisfaction of his family physician. 
The man died a few days later. His wife secured a lawyer, but the 
case was so thoroughly worked up that it was dropped, no effort being 
made to collect an unjust claim. 

Similar cases are very common in the experience of every surgeon 
in industry, and it is impossible to estimate the savings to their con- 
cerns by avoiding compensation and litigation due to these unjust 
death claims. 



86 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

One of the greatest sources of saving to the employer is the physical 
selection of employees for work. This is done by the physical examina- 
tion of all applicants for work before employment. The value to the 
employer depends upon the thoroughness of these examinations and 
the amount of co-operation between the employment department, the 
medical department and the foreman. 

The old system in vogue before medical examinations of employees 
was introduced into industry, and which is still in vogue in so many 
places, resulted in the following wasteful methods : 

1. A man applied to the employment department or to the foreman 
for a job. He had had words with his foreman in another industry 
and quit. (This was the result of less and less work due to a physical 
handicap of which he was not aware.) Experience made him valu- 
able for certain types of work. He was employed and thrown into 
the human machinery of that industry without any investigation as 
to his physical fitness. His work was on a machine and was very 
heavy. He exerted himself to make good and at first succeeded, but 
gradually the production of his machine fell behind and after two 
months the foreman was forced to let this man go. For two months 
an expensive machine had failed to produce sufficiently to pay for 
its maintenance; a definite loss for the employer. And why? Be- 
cause this man who was employed blindly had a beginning locomotor 
ataxia and was physically unable to make good. An examination 
when he applied would have prevented his employment, saved the 
loss from inefficient operation of the machine, and the cost of hiring 
and firing a man. 

2. A man was employed as a laborer by an electrical concern. This 
concern had a medical staff but did not include medical examination 
of applicants as a part of their work. Therefore, this laborer, without 
knowing his fitness, was assigned to help repair boilers. After two 
weeks of work this man suddenly dropped dead. At the time of 
death he was drawing an electric light attached to a wooden handle 
into the boiler and in falling this light was broken and a fuse burned 
out. 

At autopsy it was found that this man had an old chronic heart 
lesion and death was due to acute dilatation of the heart. There was 
no sign of an electrical burn. But the coincidence of the light break- 
ing and the fuse burning out was seized upon by his relatives and a 
shyster lawyer and made the basis of a claim before the Employees 
Compensation Board. Thirty-five hundred dollars was allowed by 
this Board. 

The concern carried the case to court and after a long fight and by 
employing expert witnesses they were absolved of all responsibility 
for the man's death. 



BENEFITS AND PEOFITS OF THE MEDICAL DEPAKTMENT 87 

This blindly hiring of a defective human machine cost this concern 
over $5000 for two weeks of service. 

The placing of all comers on jobs without any effort at a physical 
selection for their work is responsible for a great financial waste which 
cannot be shown in dollars and cents but which nevertheless is very 
evident. 

This waste is due to the following: 

1. The employment of the physically unfit who later must be 
discharged because of inability to do the work. 

2. The employment of the physically unfit who continue to work 
for a few months or a year with a gradual decrease in their efficiency 
due to the advancing disease until finally they are forced to quit work. 
They have been a source of loss to the concern from the time of their 
employment. 

3. The employment of the physically unfit who because of their 
condition are subject to frequent accidents. Every accident is a loss 
to the concern. 

4. The employment of the physically unfit who suffer accidents 
which ordinarily would not be serious but because of the coincidental, 
unknown physical condition are fatal, or, at least, cause prolonged 
disability. The loss to concerns from this source is far heavier than 
any employer is aware of. 

5. The employment of the person with some contagious disease 
who communicates it to others in the working force. The acute 
contagious diseases are more common, but tuberculosis and syphilis 
also cause a great loss. 

6. The employment of the mentally deficient who never can be 
fitted to a job and who form a certain percentage of floating labor on 
account of this fact. An observant industrial physician will pick out 
this type during the course of his examination. 

Those concerns which have an efficient medical system always in- 
clude the examination of applicants as a definite part of the work. 
These examinations are not made for the purpose of selecting only the 
physically fit and refusing employment to all others, but are made for 
the following purposes: 

(o) To prevent those with diseased conditions, making work of 
any kind dangerous to them, from going to work; (6) to select proper 
jobs for those with certain defects where they can still be efficient 
and yet the work will not be hazardous to them; (c) to prevent 
those with contagious diseases from mingling with the old working force. 

The author has collected statistics from ten large industries, having 
very excellent medical staffs, which examine all applicants for work. 
Their rejections are based, for the most part, on the above standards. 
The following table shows the results of these examinations: 



88 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

TABLE 5 

1. Total number of applicants examined in one year. . . 118,900 

2. Total number employed having disabilities that did 

not interfere with selected work 41,158 or 34.7 per cent. 

3. Total number rejected for work because of disabilities 11,433 or 9.7 per cent. 

4. Total number having no disabilities of any moment. 66,309 or 55.6 per cent. 

5. Total number of regular employees in these ten 
industries 102,400 

It is fair to assume that these 11,433 applicants who were rejected 
for work would have soon lost their positions because of inefficiency, 
or would have quit because of sickness. Certainly by the end of a 
year practically all of these would have been eliminated from the work- 
ing force. It is impossible to accurately estimate what the loss to these 
concerns would have been during that year from having these men 
and women in their employ. It would have been considerable, how- 
ever, from decreasing efficiency due to the disease, from an increased 
accident rate, from loss of time due to sickness and the resulting sick 
benefits in many cases. 

Several estimates have been made of the cost of labor turn-over. 
These are based on the cost of employing people, teaching them the 
job, and the time elapsing before they become efficient or productive. 
These estimates vary from $10.00 to $200.00. One authority, after a 
careful study of this problem in many industries, gives as a low average 
the amount of $35.00 as representing the cost of hiring and training 
an individual. 1 

Therefore, these 11,433 rejected cases can be estimated as saving 
these concerns $400,155 in labor turn-over. 

Magnus Alexander in a comprehensive study of the cost of health 
supervision in ninety-nine different industries found that the average 
cost per employee for all medical work was $2.50. Using this figure 
as a fair average, and taking the regular number of employees as 
102,400, we can estimate the cost of the entire medical work in these 
ten industries at $256,000. 

Thus the examination of applicants alone undoubtedly saved these 
concerns over $140,000 during the course of one year. 


TABLE 6 

1. Saving to ten concerns from rejection of physically unfit $400,155 

2. Cost of entire medical work in these concerns 256,000 



3. Profit to the concerns from this one branch of medical work alone. . . $144,155 

It is fair and conservative to estimate that at least 10 per cent, 
of those applicants with physical disabilities, who were employed, 
1 A more recent estimate places this at $45.00. 



BENEFITS AND PROFITS OF THE MEDICAL DEPARTMENT 89 

would have quit very shortly if physical selection of the proper job had 
not been used, thus adding to their efficiency, contentment and health 
protection. This adds another $144,000 to the profit of the em- 
ployers from this system. 

While the above figures can only be estimated, yet the most skep- 
tical must surely agree that the examination of applicants for work, and 
the rejection of the physically unfit, even when based on the most 
humane standards for rejection, certainly pays any concern adopting 
this method. And the saving to that concern from his procedure 
alone will more than pay the costs of the most efficient Human Main- 
tenance Department they can establish. 



CHAPTER VIII 
COST OF THE MEDICAL DEPARTMENT 

In the preceding chapter an endeavor was made to show the profit 
which a concern derives from its human maintenance department and 
to point out the difficulty of obtaining actual figures on this subject. 
The cost of maintaining such a department is of equal interest. In 
fact, it is very essential for an industrial surgeon to have a clear con- 
ception of costs in making recommendations to an employer con- 
templating extending the medical and surgical work in his plant. 

Naturally the cost of such a service depends upon many factors. 
Chief among these are : 

1. The caliber of the physicians employed. 

2. The number of physicians on the staff. 

3. The number of hours the physicians are engaged. 

4. The use of outside medical and surgical service. 

5. The number of industrial nurses. 

6. The number of clerks, stenographers and other lay assistants. 

7. The number of employees in the concern. 

8. The comprehensiveness and thoroughness of the medical and 
surgical work. 

9. The amount of medical and surgical supplies used. 

10. The extent to which laboratory and x-ray methods are em- 
ployed. 

It is quite evident that in estimating the cost of this health service 
each of the above factors must be considered in connection with each 
individual concern. However, certain facts and figures can be given 
which will be of assistance in estimating cost. 

The Caliber of the Physicians Employ ed. This is one of the most 
important considerations for the success of the work and the effi- 
ciency with which it is done. All industries will find it more effective 
and much more economical in the long run to employ the best medical 
and surgical talent which they can secure. By this I do not mean 
highly specialized physicians to represent each particular specialty of 
medicine in their plant hospitals, but broad-minded, well-trained, all- 
around physicians. In addition these doctors should have a highly 
developed sociological sense and should be filled with enthusiasm for 
the service which they can render to their fellowmen. The oppor- 
tunity for service is offered to a greater extent in industrial practice 

90 






COST OP THE MEDICAL DEPARTMENT 91 

than in any other line of medicine. It is true that the cost of em- 
ploying this type of physician is considerably more than to employ 
a mediocre doctor, but the efficient service, the vision to develop a 
truly human maintenance system, and the saving in life and limb will 
more than compensate for this initial expense. 

A number of large industries have chief surgeons of this caliber. 
Some of these men devote their entire time to the work while others 
give only a part of their time. The salaries paid these full-time men 
vary from $4000 to $15,000 annually. The part-time men draw 
annual salaries from $2000 to $10,000 depending largely upon the 
amount of time devoted to the work. 

Industrial concerns cannot expect to secure well-trained physi- 
cians at a lower salary. In fact, as our better surgeons take up this 
work employers are found to be paying greater salaries. While the 
opportunity for service is abundant in industries, yet human nature 
is such that the majority desire to be paid for this service. Men who 
have devoted eight and ten years preparing for their life work at a 
very great cost naturally will seek that line of work most remunerative. 

Too many industries, in the past and even at the present time, are 
employing company surgeons who have failed to make a success of 
the practice of medicine or who do not desire to put forth the strenuous 
effort necessary to make a success. They are paying these men $150 
to $250 a month for their full time but frequently fail to get value 
received. 

Not all the poorly paid industrial surgeons belong in this class, 
for many a well-trained young man takes up this work on a small 
salary simply as a means of accumulating a little capital which will 
enable him to enter private practice or some one of the specialties. 
He renders good service but as soon as financially able he relinquishes 
the industrial practice. This is a source of great loss to those concerns 
pursuing such a shortsighted course. 

The old time company surgeon who accepted a small fee for emer- 
gency work or took a contract, at a low figure, to do only the surgical 
work for an industry, as a rule rendered very inefficient service to the 
employees. His standing in the profession was of a very low average 
and the character of his work was of a low standard. He was a com- 
pany surgeon in word and deed and too often was only on the side of 
the employer as represented by the insurance company. The stand- 
ards of industrial medical and surgical practices as represented by these 
men reached a very low plane. 

Fortunately a few large concerns and some of the insurance com- 
panies awakened to the importance of efficient medical care for em- 
ployees and began to pay for better trained physicians. These men 
had a vision of the great opportunities for preventive medicine and pre- 



92 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

ventive surgery offered by industrial medicine, and during the last 
decade have developed this line of practice into one of the greatest 
specialties of our profession. And with the industries of the nation 
devoting more and more attention to the conserving of our man power 
this specialty will develop far beyond our present dreams. The best 
medical talent of the country will be brought into this line of work. 
Their sole effort will be devoted to the welfare of the employee, but 
it will be retroactive to the welfare of the employer. The old type 
employer's physician is passing and the new era of the employee's 
physician is here. 

The Number of Physicians on the Staff and the Number of Hours 
Spent on the Job. Among the leading surgeons in industry opinion 
is divided as to the number of hours the company physician should 
spend on the job. Some advocate the full-time doctor while others 
favor the part-time plan. 

Unfortunately in the past too many of the full-time physicians 
have been underpaid, have been held too closely to the plant, pre- 
venting their scientific development, and have settled into a "rut." 
Such a policy has deterred the best trained men from taking a full-time 
position. A few industries, willing to pay for the best of service, 
have been able to secure and hold men of the highest professional 
standing who give their entire time to this work. The strongest argu- 
ment for such a plan is the doctor's undivided attention devoted to 
the employees. 

Very few industries are willing to pay a salary commensurate to 
what a well-trained, scientific physician can earn in private practice. 
They can secure, however, the services of such a man for part time, 
leaving him free to develop his special practice on the outside. Thus 
doctors who have been thoroughly trained in every branch of medicine 
and surgery, but who are developing a specialty, will accept a part-time 
position. In this way a group of specialists can be gathered together 
in the plant hospital, who make a diagnostic and treatment group far 
superior to the majority of full-time staffs. If they are paid sufficiently 
well for this part-time work, most of these men will remain with the 
concerns for years each succeeding year becoming more and more 
valuable to them as a specialist. 

The full-time staff will find it necessary to consult outside special- 
ists more frequently than a part-time staff composed of men thoroughly 
qualified to represent some special line of practice. For example, 
one large industry employs ten physicians including the chief surgeon, 
all of whom spend three and one-half hours at the plant. During this 
time they work at a pace it would be impossible to continue for the 
entire day. Among these doctors are represented the following special- 
ties : surgery, orthopedics, gynecology, internal medicine, tuberculosis, 



COST OF THE MEDICAL DEPARTMENT 93 

psychiatry, dermatology, and an expert laboratory man. They are 
not so highly specialized, however, that they are not efficient as 
examiners and general emergency men. All of them, from the very 
nature of the work, are highly specialized in preventive medicine 
and preventive surgery which after all is the very backbone of indus- 
trial medicine and surgery. It would be financially prohibitive for 
this industry to employ half of this staff for full-time work, whereas, 
by the part-time system they are able to avail themselves of the best 
type of special service whenever needed. 

These nine assistants receive an average of $150 per month 
for the three and one-half hours work per day at the plant. They are 
free to care for any member of the family of an employee but are pro- 
hibited from accepting as a private pay patient any one of the employees. 
This is very essential as it removes the danger of a physician soliciting 
patients from among those whom he must advise to seek certain 
medical or surgical remedial measures. It adds to* the weight of 
the physician's advice when no ulterior motive can be connected 
with it. 

Number of Physicians Needed. For a comprehensive system of 
industrial medicine and surgery at least one full-time or two part-time 
physicians for a thousand employees is necessary. Three full-time 
or five part-time physicians or eight part-time physicians are needed 
for a working force of 8000 to 12,000. 

If applicants are not examined for work or if re-examinations 
are not made frequently, or if other phases of a comprehensive sys- 
tem are not incorporated in the work, the number of physicians 
can be reduced. 

The Number of Industrial Nurses Employed. These nurses 
are the most valuable assistants to the doctors and are necessary 
to carry on any efficient system of industrial medicine. The above 
estimate of doctors needed depends upon the employment of these 
nurses. Besides assisting the medical staff they must act as visiting 
nurses to the sick and injured employees. They are the best means 
of constantly keeping in touch with the absent employees. 

Two nurses for 1000 employees are essential. Three to four nurses 
are needed up to 5000 employees. Five to eight nurses for 5000 to 
10,000, and as many as twelve nurses for at least 15,000 employees 
will be necessary. If all sick employees are to be visited, however, 
the above number of nurses should be doubled. 

The number of lay assistants will depend upon the complete- 
ness of the records and files. Money expended for keeping up-to-date 
records on all patients visiting the doctor's office is money well spent 
by the concern. These records furnish valuable comparative data 
from year to year and will enable the discovery of many conditions 



94 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

effecting the health of employees which can be corrected. One 
stenographer and one filing clerk are necessary for each 2000 employees. 

In one industry where from 600 to 800 workers per day visited the 
doctor's office during the busy months it was found to be most eco- 
nomical to employ a girl time keeper in the waiting room. It was 
her duty to stamp on the hospital pass, with a time clock, the hour 
of admission to the office of every employee and the hour of leaving. 
In this way the employees were seen in turn and none were allowed 
to waste an undue amount of time waiting for the attention of the 
doctor. On the busiest day of last year with an average of four 
doctors and eight nurses on the job all the time one employee passed 
through the office every half minute. Every one of these were seen by 
either a doctor or nurse, and notation of what was done placed 
upon the employee's record. 

This office employs eleven lay assistants, girls, thus making pos- 
sible a system which can efficiently handle such a large number of 
cases. The average salary paid these girls is $15 a week. 

The total cost increases with the number of employees but as a 
rule the average cost of this work per person decreases with every 
thousand employees. This is shown very well in the accompanying 
table. 

Also, the outlay increases with the hazardousness of the occupa- 
tions. Thus, the cost of such a system is greater in a manufacturing 
plant than in a mercantile concern. The increased amount of surgical 
supplies alone is responsible for a greater expense. 

The comprehensiveness and thoroughness of the work depends 
largely upon the caliber of the medical men employed. Good scien- 
tific physicians will demand and use a laboratory and the x-ray more 
than in a plant where slip-shod methods are tolerated. All of this 
will increase the immediate costs but the results obtained will far 
more than compensate a concern for the additional expense. 

Cost of Health Supervision in Industry. The Conference Board 
of Physicians in Industrial Practice, composed of industrial surgeons 
representing many of the largest industries of the eastern states, has 
contributed much valuable material to Industrial Medicine and Sur- 
gery. Magnus W. Alexander, Secretary of this Board, is responsible 
for the compilation of the attached table showing the cost of health 
supervision in industries. The author is indebted to Mr. Alexander 
for the privilege of reprinting this material. 

"The accompanying table presents data for the year 1916 as re- 
ported by ninety-nine industrial plants located in fifteen states. The 
total average number of employees represented was 495,544; the 
average number per plant was 5005, the maximum 37,107, the 
minimum 141. 



COST OF THE MEDICAL DEPARTMENT 95 

"While the average cost per person as indicated in the summary, is 
$2.50, it is not representative, as the total cost on which the average 
is based includes that of four plants (71, 85, 95 and 96) which render 
unusual service, giving both medical and surgical attention to their 
employees at the plant and in their homes as well, besides assuming 
the medical care of employees' families. Omitting these four plants 
from consideration, the average cost for the 479,634 employees in the 
other 95 plants was $2.21. 

"A total of 3,165,114 cases was reported, an average of more than 
six cases per person employed, at an average cost of thirty-nine cents per 
case. The number of cases reported, however, does not include all of 
the service rendered. In many plants, no record is kept of slight injuries, 
of injuries redressed, of medical cases treated, of home visits made, or 
of physical examinations. In others, even the most trivial cases are 
counted. Furthermore, as 'cases' are so varied in gravity and in 
the time required for treatment, any comparisons of costs per case 
are not of much value. 

"The 'Total Medical and Surgical Cost' includes salaries of physi- 
cians and nurses, cost of outside medical and surgical service and cost 
of medical and surgical supplies, whether or not paid for by insurance 
companies as a part of the insurance contract; it excludes all compensa- 
tion for injuries, all overhead expenses and any wages paid to em- 
ployees while off duty to have their injuries treated. 

The chief significance of this data, from a general viewpoint, is 
that it is possible to give such a large amount of medical and surgical 
service at a cost which averages only $2.21 per employee per year. 

Convincing proof of the economic value of health supervision in 
industry is afforded by the fact that, when collecting the data con- 
tained in this report, it was found that no employer had abandoned 
the health supervision activities established in his plant. On the con- 
trary, the prevailing tendency has been to invest even more money 
in extending the service." 



96 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



TABLE 7. COST OF HEALTH SUPERVISION. 





j 
I 


|; 

H 

f 


\ 

1 


1 


jj 

|3 

i : 


ill 




1 
j? 

1 


!i 

i 1 


i 
jl 


* 

11 

r 


1. 


| 

ill 


ii 
? 


11 

ys 


S i 

R 

< 


Metal 
Trades 

|(|{ 

1 

1 KofiniDg | 

Light 
Power 

Tran 1 

H 

Chem-J 
icals 1 

Food-j 

J 

,,) 

.J 

'"" I 

H 

!".: - 

liof 
. 


11 

12 
13 
14 

16 

16 
17 
18 

19 
20 

21 

22 
23 
24 
26 

2C 
27 
23 
29 
30 

31 

32 
33 
34 
36 

36 
37 
38 
39 

10 

41 
42 
43 
44 

46 

46 
47 

48 
49 
60 
51 
52 
53 
54 

56 

56 
67 
58 
69 
60 
61 
62 

63 
61 
65 
IE 

M 

OS 
B9 

ro 

71 
73 

71 
75 
76 
77 
78 

79 
80 
81 
82 

83 

81 
85 

M 

87 

S3 
89 

90 

91 

92 
93 

94 
96 

96 

97 
98 
99 


400 
500 
TX> 
762 
776 

875 
918 
1.000 
1.100 
1,157 

1,244 

1.501 
1,730 

l.'l.'S 

2,000 

2.200 

2.4IX) 

2>.t,r. 
2,600 
2,862 

3,097 
3,250 

3,503 
3,791 
4,000 

4.534 

4.XIS 
:,.:! 
6,645 
5,809 

6,000 
6,727 
U06 

?!lVis 
7,745 

7,922 
8.000 

II.INII 

1.000 
2,786 

4.500 
5,783 

6,776 

,i>S(l 

7,387 

18.521 
37,107 

1.321 

J.li.Vt 
'.',710 
4,500 
4.910 
s.2: 
25.000 

1,270 

1,001 
2,200 
3.027 
3,050 
4,782 
4.850 
5,931 

1,825 
4,500 
9,420 
10,000 
10,050 

311 

690 
1,000 

1,060 

l.!Hi- 
5,603 

1,200 
1,500 
2,500 
3,000 
5,450 

1,850 
3,000 

4,756 
5,000 
13,056 

1,000 
1,350 
2,000 
4,589 

1,226 
2.797 

1,122 
1,904 

141 

3,217 

2,454 
2,500 
11,000 

530 
800 
1,261 


( 
1 
1 
I 
1 

( 
1 
I 
1 

( 

I 

4 
1 

( 
I 



(1 
c 
I 

t 

1 
1 

(I 
I 

1 

Cl 

1 

1) 
(i 
3 

1 





I 

1 

I 

4 
i 

t 

I 

t 

1 
19 
5 
1 

1 
1 

1 
1 
I) 
1) 

4 
(i 





1 
4 

s 

(1 
1 
i 

[ 

1 
1 

1 

( 
1 

1 

< 
{ 

( 
( 

1 

1 

11 

( 

1 
1 

1 
1 

1 
( 

( 
I 

( 

7 

1 
I 
I 





1 4 hn. daily 
1 5 hn. daily 



1 2 hn. daily 


1 

1 daily 

1 2 hn. daily 
1 l)hn. daily 






4 4 hn. daily 

1 daily 





2 2 hn. daily 
1 1 hr. daily 

1 1 hr. daily 


1 



6 6 hn. daily 


1 3 hn. daily 


1 1 hr. daily 


, 













4 

1 1 hr. daily 

Yes 




1 31 hrs. d'ly 
2 4 hrs. daily 


1 2 hrs. daily 
1 4 hrs. daily 
3 3 hn. daily 
6 3 hn. daily 



1 4 hn. daily 



1 

1 4 hrt. daily 
1 4 hrs. daily 




1 2 hn. daily 
2 


2 

1 semi-weekl) 
1 6 hrs. daily 

3 semi-weekly 

1 


1 4 hrs. daily 
1 1 1 kn. tn- 



1 3 bra. daily 

1 
34 

1 1 hr. daily 
1 2 hn. daily 
1 5 hn. daily 


i 

a 
i 




1 

J 


1 






II 
5 



4 



r 





i 

s 
9 



2 






i) 
i 



e 



Y 

Va 



e 
1 


2 

r 




e 




Y 

Vet 

4 

10 

18 

Yes 

12 

1 








2 

Ym 



e 





e 

T 
1 




It 


1 

1 

e 

t 







1 


1 
1 
1 

1 F. 
1 M. 

IF. 
) 
) 

2F. 

2F. 

2F. 
IF. 
1M. 
IF. 
1M. 

) 

1M. 

2F. 
IF. 
2M. 



1 M.. 1 F. 
IF. 
2M..1F. 
2M. 

2M. 
IM..3F. 
1 F. 
1M. 
IF. 

2F. 
IF. 
IF. 
) 

IF. 

5M. 
2F. 

1M..4F. 
1M..2F. 

9F. 
4M..2F. 
5F. 
1 M.,10 F. 
5M..1F. 

6M..5F. 
24 M. 

3M. 

1 M., 1 F. 
2F. 
IF. 
8F. 
2M..11F. 

1 

!F. 
I 
) 

1 F. 
2F. 
t 

t 

) 

2F. 
2F. 
IF. 

D 
1M. 
IF. 
) 

IF. 
3F. 

IF. 
) 
) 

2F. 
2F. 

2F. 
2F. 

1M..2F. 
1 M..2F. 
3 M.,16 F. 

1 F. 
2F. 
1 F. 
2F. 

t 

t 

9 

2M. 

I 

IF. 

1 

7F, 
49 

IF. 


1 first-aider 
L u 

1 boy 
2 first aiden 

1 
) 
I 
| 

1 first aider 

1 
1 

1 stenographer 
Part time clerk 
t 

1 first aider 
) 
I 
i 
i stenographer 

1 clerk 

clerk 
\ 

I 

1 clerk 
4 first aiden 
1 clerk 
2 first aiders 

!sLd 

i M 

3(>) 

1 stenographer 
-' clerk) 
1 stenographer 
Iffl 

JO . 

, attendant 

') 
i 
\n 

i 

i 

1 supervisor 
1 

m 

Orderliei 
24 first aiden 

) 

.'clerk. 
) 
t 
1 
) 
1 

'. 

1 iln. 1 build* 

;"> 

1 clerk 

3 first aiders 
<") 
t 
3 first aiden 
.inspector 

1 tsre. put UDM 
t 
t 
t 
1 clerk 

J 

2 clerks 
2 clerks 
t stenographer 
clerks 

} 

2 clear en 

2 el'ks.lcleaoer 

1 at'n'dt 1 sten 
1 

1 tint aider 
Iboy 

I 
1 

I 
1 

m 

1 first aider 
) 



240 
1,451 
300 

2.032 
7,543 

715 

696 
1,618 
959 
327 

7.984 
5.332 
2.600 
2.628 
3,000 

1,294 

7.200 
6,657 
1,628 
4,596 

3,098 
1,648 
318 
25,782 
1,280 

6,522 
2,300 
1,109 
3,968 
15,992 

14.394 

IU..-.MI 

5.1 111 
15,659 
3,161 

8,122 
1.327 
2.1.1 U 
17,516 
11.177 

9.600 
32. 1W 
53,006 
29,626 
12,200 

55,728 
86,611 

3,165 

8,918 

2.SSO 
Ki.l'ti 
12,1*11 
21,. VII 
30,000 

326 

177 
172 

918 
200 
18,910 
920 
1,112 

416 

2,002 
4.0SO 
5.6'M 
1,978 

186 
1,451 

1,292 
iUYt 
1,466 
2,573 

1Z.379 


240 
506 
4 
895 
255 

150 
4 

388 
t 
1,382 

2,400 
3,802 

572 


80 
654 

""l',399 
6,117 

4,127 
4,000 


II 


(I 


560 
2,611 
300 
6.057 
13,991 

4,992 
6,274 
2,006 
3.341 
2,679 

10,624 

12,960 
10,458 
10,332 
4,080 

1,294 
11,400 

17,820 
4,500 
28,208 

7,688 
28,599 
318 
58,470 
33,660 

21,800 
21,302 
5.7SO 
14.244 
39,044 

44,586 
24,580 
21,687 
95,110 
11,915 

40.814 
51.215 
102.616 
57,447 
56,242 

67.000 
69,868 
186,170 

lur.-.'vl 
62,064 

139,376 
466,560 

13,253 
48,752 
12,336 
53,987 
53.492 
86,554 
90,200 

2332 

617 

7,865 
5,721 
6,257 
18.910 
8,564 
1,112 

4,050 

7,253 
27,497 
33,327 
9,464 

1,132 
15,148 
7.047 
17,843 
8.401 
29,173 

22,401 


J2.IKX! 

692 
2,651 
3.112 
5,744 

1,297 

1,925 
l.iVW 
3.160 
5,878 

4.040 

1,332 
3,485 
4.939 
2,330 

1,165 

5,250 
4,074 
3.010 
9,068 

4,491 
7,517 
3,550 

S,>>20 
10,980 

11.376 
15.494 
5.157 
5.728 
8,272 

7,074 
7,713 
9,646 

I'.l,*;i7 
9,002 

14,997 
18.897 
17,680 
17,267 
13,641 

30,200 

32,961 
23,749 
34,409 
22,650 

21,606 
87,717 

4,130 
9,113 
5,606 
16,084 
11,010 
36,104 
55,000 

6,932 

2,020 
8,200 
10,700 

5/.I.V.I 

ttVI 

12,919 
23,880 

3,105 
5,155 
19,212 
29.507 
12,654 

1,540 
3.174 

4.122 

I..S1-, 
4.931 
14,182 

5,400 
2,835 
9.018 

10.072 
12,550 

2,460" 
11. 72.-I 
5,201) 
4.SOO 
51,904 

1.563 

5,250 
5,361 
12,000 

9,683 
19,952 

3.540 
2,562 

56 
3,417 

4,637 
35,590 
130,000 

808 
1.916 

3.H-J 


$5.00 
1.84 

EH 

4.08 
7.40 

1.48 
2.10 
1.04 

EM 

.08 10 

S.85 11 

.8S U 
S.01 U 
iv.l! 14 
1.1(1 U 

.53 16 
2.19 17 
1.68 1< 
1.17 M 
3.1? 20 

1.45 21 
2.31 U 
1.01 21 
2.32 24 
2.74 >C 

2.S1 20 
3.20 27 
.97 28 
1.01 29 
1.42 30 

1.18 31 

I.I.-. 3> 
1.42 33 
2.82 34 
1.16 35 

1.89 36 
2.36 37 
1.77 38 

l..-i7 39 
1.07 40 

2.03 41 
2.n:l 42 
1.71 43 
2.04 44 
1.30 46 

1.16 40 

2.36 47 

3.13 48 
3.4* 49 
2.08 60 
3.67 (1 
2.24 62 
4.3 5} 
2.20 54 

6.46 55 

1.90 66 
8.73 57 
363 58 
1.96 59 
6.05 f> 
2.66 61 
4.01 62 

1.70 13 
1.15 M 
2.04 65 
2.95 66 
1.26 07 

4.95 08 
4.60 69 
4.12 70 
("16.48 71 
2.68 72 
2.63 73 

4.60 74 
1.89 76 
3.61 76 
3.36 77 
230 78 

1.49 79 
3.91 80 
1.09 81 
.96 82 
3.98 83 

166 84 

, :l 89 85 
2.68 86 
262 87 

7.90 88 
7.13 89 

3.15 90 
1.35 91 

.40 92 
1.06 93 

1.89 94 
I") 14.24 96 

("111.82 96 

1.47 97 
2.39 98 
2.10 99 


i? 
36 




1,715 
40 


15 


563 

1,500 


678 
970 

""3,826 
4,872 
6,416 
936 

j 
3,200 
11,163 
812 
17,948 

4.350 

13,844 
U 
32,688 
24,000 

10.000 
3.S50 
4,671 
4.433 
15,188 

17,416 
14,000 
7,417 
53.252 
5,349 

7,254 
2.745 
42,972 


204 


200 
^ 
144 
716 
144 

4 

1 

iJ2 

148 

20 


40 

2,782 

6 

4 
c 
_4 

176 
5,516 

.4 
12.117 


""8,000 

4,278 
6,246 

1,000 
7^64 

1.004 


7.000 
23,136 
1,970 

6,388 
15,565 
25.458 


4 
1,000 

""l',772 
') 

220 
990 
( 

9 

o 

c 

4,944 

4,843 


C 

380 

1.000 
3,962 

""" 

4 

. 4 

64 
65 
584 

406 
1,078 
1,724 


11,772 

2,6i2 
2,998 
848 

18,644 
30,500 
9,350 


1.520 
3,800 
54,273 


24,502 

32,000 
36,676 
62,891 


1,719 

3,000 
1,032 
O 


17,318 

18,600 
4 
16,000 
5,749 
15,643 

4 
41,175 

3,514 
4 
4 
4 
4 
18,624 


4 

4* 

960 
1,245 
2.357 


742 

133,036 

17 
1,118 

32 
1 
5,098 

e 

950 

C 

2,800 
I 
1,500 

1,088 


32,364 

83,648 
202,095 

6,538 
37,746 
8,092 
37,492 
40,642 
40,602 
60,000 

1,196 

4 

633 
2,033 
2.000 

<'' ,7,8 


1,110 

4 
3,643 

19 

970 
1,364 

4 
849 
640 
200 

360 

4 

3,300 
1,525 
200 


338 


3,500 
( 

1,754 
4,746 
11,314 
11,072 
1,307 

4 

424 
I 

1,709 
885 
7,146 

776 


404 
425 
I 
j 

20 

1 

1,930 
2,430 
1,271 

""woi 

2,090 


1,456 

11.697 
15,413 
5,934 

928 
10,835 
3.303 
8.207 
5,200 
6,225 

7,147 


20 
20 
406 
1,148 
225 

IS 
508 
13 
1,303 
850 
6,428 

4 


1,512 
2,660 
12,492 

uoo 

10.IK 
6,200 
480 
31.772 

241 

1,000 
2,064 
5,856 


438 

i 
1 

1,020 
1,250 
7,840 
9,400 


3,618 
500 
13,920 

3.240 
27,000 
8.600 
3,240 
54376 

1,359 

300 
3,684 
15,452 

i 

2,697 

20 

3,232 

1,690 
40,204 


1.278 


1,734 
f 
4,000 

( 

2.20C 

30C 

29,044 

1,585 
1 

300 
5,076 

6,092 


8.580 
3,169 
35,412 

5,940 
41.169 
22.C40 
13.4SO 
150.840 

24!3 
7,188 
32,184 

6,462 
3,793 

1.497 
7,943 

334 
6,408 

2,842 
62,120 
131,898 

1,720 
4,473 
4,826 


5,000 

180 
350 

60 
35,148 

S23 

8,000 
288 
C.800 

370 


15,000 
852 

R 


1.609 

83 
1,646 

314 

1,648 

577 
1.443 
-7,430 

520 
617 
418 


2,184 
1,032 

( 

12 
199 
96,795 

100 
1,424 

3,244 


382 
( 

1 
4 

313 
20,280 


( 

3,600 

1 

1.528 

250 
4 
27,673 

1.51JJ 


1,076 
900 
1,158 


24 
20 

f 



COST OF THE MEDICAL DEPARTMENT 



97 



SUMMARY 


INDUSTRY 


CfUbljihinrau 
R^od 


Toul 
Armc Suiabcf 
of Eroiorn 
&jp<m4 


ToulCna 


Toul Uidol 
.ndhnial 
COM 


C^ffuSSi 

pctKJSo^. 




47 


294.646 
40.317 
1.270 
24,921 
35.795 
10,572 
13.650 
27,462 
S.939 
4.023 
3.02G 
1358 
8.4S4 
2JOO 
11.000 
2.611 


1,988.991 
358.574 
2,832 
49.046 
81.591 
78.744 
69.565 
234,069 
67^80 
10.255 
9,440 
6,742 
2342 
62,126 
1313W 
11.019 


(541.ni 
137,047 
6,932 
92,601 
. C9.633 
34.797 
39375 
76,089 
24.177 
29.635 
6.102 
3.473 
4,637 
35.590 
130.000 
6.128 


1J4 
LTS 
Ml 

j.n 

l.M 

Ui 

in 

ITT 
UI 
TJT 
1M 

tn 

tM 

(")14J 
()1L 

ix 






Light and Power . 


Chemicals 




Rubber 


Textiles 








Coal Mining . 






Mnctflannnif 




M 


435,644 


3.1M.114 


*1,J3,4 


uo 


*The average annual cost per employee, excluding Plants Nos. 71. 85, 95, anj 96, for which the cost includes sickness 
treatment of employees and their families at home, was 12.21. 



CHAPTER IX 
SUPERVISION OF THE HEALTH OF THE MANAGERIAL STAFF 

The human maintenance department should not be operated only 
for the employees; the managerial staff of the concern should likewise 
be included in its scope. The supervision of the health of the 
president, the vice-president, the general manager, and of all the 
department managers is of equal or greater economic importance to 
the industry. 

Every industrial surgeon agrees that the success of his work de- 
pends upon interesting the head of the concern and securing his co- 
operation. Many surgeons insist upon reporting direct to the chief 
executive, or his highest representative, depending upon this as the 
best means of securing the indorsement and assistance of the managers. 

Too often the physician fails to take advantage of this opportunity 
by neglecting to offer this medical supervision to the managerial force. 
On the other hand, the attitude of these managers is often incon- 
sistent. They will lend every assistance toward extending the work 
to the employees but refuse to apply it to themselves. 

Some executives and managers have adopted the principle that all 
work and no play does not pay dividends and for these the supervi- 
sion is not so essential. But the majority of busy business men are 
over-burdened with work, are irregular in their habits, eating at all 
hours, sleeping too little, and failing to take sufficient exercise. They 
work at high tension and develop a high tension machine. They 
depend upon their few weeks' vacation once a year in which to recu- 
perate their wasting energies. 

None of these practical business men would think of working an 
expensive, high powered machine day in and day out without peri- 
odically inspecting it and repairing damaged parts before the machine 
was ruined. They should give the same attention .to the human 
mechanism. 

Many of these men develop circulatory conditions or damaged 
nervous systems which totally unfit them for further service, often 
prematurely. In this way the concern suffers the loss of a valuable 
executive a loss which the industrial surgeon might prevent. 

Therefore, the medical staff should extend its work to include 
everybody from the president of the concern down to the lowest em- 

98 



SUPERVISION OF HEALTH OF MANAGERIAL STAFF 99 

ployee. In a few places this is done with the result that the manage- 
rial staff sets the example for the rank and file of the employees. When 
it is necessary for the entire force to be vaccinated the president and 
general manager are the first to submit to the operation. When the 
president and the managers undergo a periodical medical examina- 
tion and talk about it freely it is an easy matter to win over the rest 
of the force to such a procedure and to gain their confidence. But 
aside from the example it is of the greatest value to these executives 
to develop habits of prevention. They owe it to themselves, to their 
families and to the business which they represent. 

The periodical medical examination and the resulting health super- 
vision should be applied to the executives and all the department 
managers of every industry. At least twice a year these officials 
should be thoroughly examined; this should include urinalysis and 
blood-pressure tests. If the examination reveals the need of a more 
thorough study, the same should be made at once. It is necessary 
to maintain a tickler system on these officials, calling them to the 
office for examination when their turn arrives. * This should not be 
left to their memory. 

Great care and diplomacy must be exercised in telling these men 
of any little condition which is found and which needs some correct- 
ive treatment. These officials very frequently become panicky over 
some minor condition, developing a real neurasthenia because of the 
suggestion contained in some warning which the doctor gives. This 
is often truer of managers than of the employees in the ranks. It 
may be due to the high tension at which they live and work, or to the 
responsibilities which rest upon them, or more probably to the fact 
that they can afford to go from doctor to doctor, trying to find one 
who will confirm their worst fears. 

The case of Manager P. illustrates this point very forcibly. On 
the managers' tickler system it was Mr. P.'s day to be examined. He 
was called to the office and the physical examination made which 
showed Mr. P. perfectly normal physically. However, he was tired 
and nervous and complained of stomach trouble. In a manner he 
censured the doctor for not discovering the condition. 

Undiplomatically the company physician said, "Well, you had 
better go and have a stomach analysis made." 

Instead of following up the case and reassuring this tired manager 
the doctor let him depart unsatisfied. 

Mr. P. went to his family physician who did not make a stomach 
analysis but who agreed with his patient's diagnosis of stomach trouble. 
Mr. P. was not satisfied, however, because he was still thinking of that 
"stomach analysis" suggested by the company doctor. 

He finally went to a specialist who for $25 made the analysis and 



100 . . INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

while it failed to show anything definite yet the specialist suggested 
further study to rule out the possibility of cancer. Poor Mr. P. became 
panicky and started to jump from doctor to doctor most of whom 
reassured him and laughed at his fears. He was unconsciously looking 
for the doctor who would agree with his own diagnosis of his case. 
After three months the general superintendent of this concern called 
up the company surgeon and asked what was the matter with manager 
P. who was falling down in his work and whose department was going to 
pieces. 

The doctor had not seen Mr. P. for three months but he would do 
so at once. 

Mr. P. was called to the office. After two weeks of careful study, 
and patiently demonstrating to the man that he did not have a cancer, 
the doctor was able to enter into the status of the case at the point 
where he should have started three months previously at the first 
examination. 

Mr. P. 's first symptoms were tiredness, nervousness and a "funny, 
sick feeling" in the stomach. The doctor after gaining his confidence, 
found that the production in his department had fallen off, that the 
general superintendent had had Mr. P. "on the carpet" a number of 
times, causing fear of losing his job. ' This fear was the etiologic factor 
and beginning of his entire trouble. 

The general superintendent when informed of the condition re- 
moved the fear, a short vacation was prescribed which was spent at 
hard work on a farm, and Mr. P. returned a month later a well man 
and with no thought ever given to whether he had a stomach or not. 

Not only the managers but all the employees learn to lean upon the 
medical staff for advice and guidance concerning their health. Many 
foolish fears and symptoms are brought to the attention of these doc- 
tors. Every case must be considered carefully and seriously treated, 
no matter how trivial it may seem to the doctor. Only in this way 
can you avoid the panic which overcame Mr. P. and the resulting 
economic loss to his industry. 

Besides examining and advising these managers on health mat- 
ters the medical staff should take an interest in seeing that healthful 
recreation and exercise is provided for them as well as for the em- 
ployees. Some concerns insist on their managers taking one afternoon 
a week to play golf. Others provide tennis courts about the plant 
grounds for the use of the managers. These arrangements are of 
great aid in the months when least needed. In the winter months the 
lack of healthful exercise is most apparent. Steps should be taken by 
every concern to meet this condition. 

One industry has provided a gymnasium for its executive and 
managerial staff. This gym contains the usual apparatus for exercise, a 



SUPERVISION OF HEALTH OF MANAGERIAL STAFF 101 

shower bath, needle bath, electric cabinet and table for a thorough rub 
down. A physical director is in attendance at all times. 

The managers have their regular period each day for reporting here 
for a short work out. The president and vice-president of this concern 
are the most faithful followers of this plan and use their influence to 
see that every manager takes advantage of the gymnasium. 

Supervision of the health of the managerial staff should be a very 
definite part of the work of the industrial physician and surgeon in 
every concern. It will do more than anything else to prevent the 
frequent and unnecessary nervous breakdowns which are entirely too 
prevalent among the busy business men of to-day. 



RECREATION AND EXERCISE AS RELATED 

TO SUPERVISION OF HEALTH 

OF EMPLOYEES 

In many up-to-date industries much attention is devoted to proper 
recreation and physical exercise for the employees. This is true in 
industries where medical departments have never been installed. In 
others with excellent medical staffs this health adjunct is neglected; 
or, if it exists, it is not considered in any way related to the medical 
service. Too often the provisions for recreation and playgrounds 
are left to the welfare department or to employees' committees, and 
the plant physicians take no interest in the work. 

No better health movement can be inaugurated by any concern for 
its employees than by providing proper facilities for recreation and 
exercise in close proximity to the working place. Besides proving of 
healthful benefit such an interest displayed by the employers tends to 
create a loyalty and good fellowship among the employees themselves. 

In all industries the medical departments should take a very active 
part in the formation and maintenance of all movements for the rec- 
reation and physical exercise of employees. 

These recreational movements have taken many and varied forms. 
In some cases they are npt only for the benefit of the employees but for 
their families likewise. Their purposes are diversional, educational, 
healthful and to develop loyalty toward the industry. They are carried 
on in connection with the plant itself, in the grounds about the plant, 
in halls provided for the purpose, in Y. M. C. A.'s, or gymnasiums built 
near the plant, and may be extended to the schools and churches of the 
community where the industry is the means of stimulating them. 

The following examples of recreation for the employees are more 
purely diversional and educational and therefore are not so closely 
related to the medical department. Activity in them by the doctors 
and nurses, however, increases the influence and standing of the medical 
staff with both the employees and employers. 

Motion picture shows. 

Picnics for the employees. 

Boat and tram excursions. 

Lectures and concerts. 

Dances and parties. 

102 



RECREATION AND EXERCISE OF EMPLOYEES 



103 




104 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 




RECREATION AND EXERCISE OF EMPLOYEES 105 

Sewing and cooking classes. 

Libraries and plant journal. 

Advantage can be taken of the motion picture shows, the lectures 
and the plant journal as a means of injecting snappy health talks 
or demonstration of disease and accident prevention methods into the 
minds of the employees. These are very effective measures especially 
when introduced as a part of a purely recreational program. 

The recreations tending to improve the health of the employees are 
the ones in which the medical staff should take the greatest interest. 
These are: 

1. Physical Drills or Exercise Conducted During Working Hours. 
Much benefit is gained for employees and their working capacity is 
increased especially where their work is sedentary, if ten minutes every 
two hours are devoted to physical exercise. 

The windows should be thrown wide open and the employees put 
through a drill or calisthenic movements. Deep breathing exercises 
should always be included. Every department manager should 
be given instructions in proper exercises by a well trained physical 
director so he or she can conduct these recreational periods. There 
is nothing which tends to overcome the loss of efficiency from fatigue 
as much as this. The employees should be urged to go through 
similar setting up exercises on arising in the morning. 

2. The Recreation Room. Many industries have built in connec- 
tion with their plants large club rooms one for women and one for 
men. Here reading and writing rooms are provided, gymnasiums 
with all kinds of appliances are furnished and the rooms may be used 
as meeting halls for shows, lectures, dances, etc. The doctor should 
stimulate the physical exercise features of these recreational rooms. 
He should also see that they are light, airy and clean at all times 
(Fig. 18). 

Often a prescription providing for certain hours spent in the gym 
will do far more toward overcoming some threatened disease or break- 
down in an employee than a prescription for iron, quinine and strych- 
nia. In fact the more of these healthful adjuncts the physician can 
add to his armamentarium the less drugs will he dispense. 

3. The Playgrounds and Athletic Fields. Our colleges were the 
first to recognize an athletic field as a definite and essential part of 
the educational plant. To-day many industries have adopted the idea 
and have provided ball grounds, tennis courts, cinder tracks, and all 
the appliances that make up a regular athletic field (Fig. 19). 1 

Teams are organized in various departments and compete with 
one another. Much friendly rivalry is developed. The silver cups 
won by department teams in tennis, the baseball pennants won, and 
1 Pigs. 17 to 19 by courtesy of Sears, Roebyck & Co. 



106 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 




KECREATION AND EXERCISE OF EMPLOYEES 107 

the individual medals and prizes stimulate these athletic contests 
and make them very popular with the employees. 

These provisions for outdoor athletics are of great aid to the med- 
ical department. Many a hollow chested, shallow breathing, stoop 
shouldered employee who is frequently absent on account of minor 
ailments can be broadened out into a well man by persuading him to 
use the athletic field. Many of these boys began work very young 
and never had the advantages of athletic training at school or college. 
They enter into the sport with all the enthusiasm of a freshman. 

Besides invigorated bodies, their minds are benefited. For the 
first time the spirit of perseverance and conquest is instilled into them. 
The joy of winning on the athletic field is an incentive to strive 
to win in life's competition. These athletic contests should receive 
the most enthusiastic backing from the medical department of the 
industry. The doctor's responsibility for the men entering these 
strenuous exercises should always be kept in the foreground. No 
man should be allowed to enter a contest on the athletic field without 
undergoing a thorough physical examination. 

One large industry, with which the writer was connected; has as 
complete an athletic field as any university in the land. This consists 
of a quarter mile cinder track, baseball diamonds, fourteen tennis 
courts, and all the paraphernalia for a complete field day, as hurdles, 
jumping and pole vaulting standards, etc. 

Every year a field day meet is held with at least 300 entries. The 
preliminaries may be held the week preceding the meet. The attendance 
at these meets is from 12,000 to 15,000 people. 

Besides the track teams, this concern has twelve regular ball 
teams, and innumerable pick up teams for ball games at the noon 
hour or in the evening. Hundreds of employees take advantage of 
the tennis courts. All of these athletes are thoroughly examined by 
the medical staff before being allowed to participate in the training for 
these contests or to join a team. Many a man with an unknown 
heart lesion, a beginning lung condition, a hernia, or^some other early 
defect is discovered in this way. For these the strenuous athletic 
sports would have been detrimental and in many cases absolutely 
dangerous. 

Therefore, while physical exercise may be a great boon to the 
employees and may be a favorite prescription for the doctor to give, 
yet it should never be prescribed without previously examining 
your patient and selecting the proper type of exercise and the amount 
of the dose. 

These examinations are thorough from head to foot and always 
include a urinalysis and other laboratory tests when needed. College 
athletes are supposed to be examined before entering into similar 



108 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND ^SURGERY 

contests, but with only four or five exceptions no college or university 
submits their athletes to an examination that is worthy of the name. 
On account of this, great damage is done to the physical make-up of 
many of our college youths. 

A wonderful opportunity is given to the industrial physician to 
introduce healthful exercise and athletic contests among millions of 
boys and girls and men and women throughout our country. But in 
doing this they should impress upon the people the importance of 
examining the machine before undertaking the strenuous work. 

Universal military training would be a mighty boon to the health 
of our young manhood because it would be accompanied with medical 
examinations and the type and amount of drill would be on a select- 
ive physical basis. The stimulating of athletics among employees, 
if based on a similar plan of physical selection, would be equally 
beneficial. 

A comprehensive human maintenance department therefore must 
include in the scope of its work these recreational provisions. 



CHAPTER XI 
FOOD 

Food is one of the most significant factors in the maintenance of 
health. The medical department of an industry that pays no atten- 
tion to the food of the employees is neglecting an important duty. 

The inalienable right to eat whatever one wants cannot be tam- 
pered with by any employer. Even the company physician cannot 
prescribe the proper diet for employees and force them to follow it. 
But in many subtle ways the physician can influence the diet of a 
large group of people just as he does for an individual patient. 

The responsibility does not cease with the suggestion of proper 
food to eat but deals more with correlated subjects. Therefore, the 
physician responsible for the health of hundreds of employees must 
be on the alert to discover group defects in nourishment and quick 
to find the cause and remedy for the same. 

In dealing with the individual employee he can inquire into the 
question of diet and suggest corrective changes when needed. He can 
ascertain whether or not the wages paid are inadequate to properly 
nourish the employee and those dependent upon him. Often the 
dependents are so numerous that this becomes a real cause for under- 
nourishment and resulting sickness. He will discover certain con- 
ditions which are the result of improper food, improper eating places, 
irregular meals, hasty consumption, insufficient teeth for proper 
mastication, peculiarities of diet detrimental to the individual and 
many other conditions where the food and eating habits have a direct 
bearing on the physical condition. 

These faults are best corrected by frequently repeated advice to 
the individual. He can even take up the question of low wage with 
the management, when he feels that this is the cause, and usually 
have it corrected. Even a wrong diet at home for the employee and 
his family can be corrected by proper advise from the physician 
assisted by the subtle, diplomatic suggestions of the visiting nurse 
who drops in for a friendly call on the wife. 

But in dealing with the entire group of employees tho industrial 
physician can do many things, with and without the assistance of the 
employer, to influence the health of the people under him as related 
to food and food conditions. 

109 



110 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

Talks to employees individually and in groups concerning food 
hygiene will bear certain fruit. Written pamphlets handed out from 
the office or distributed to the employees through the pay envelope 
will give further results and are of greater value because they usually 
are read by the wife or mother at home. 

After inquiring into the food eaten by thousands of employees, one 
is convinced that bread, meat and potatoes are used to excess, and that 
milk, green vegetables and nourishing soups are neglected by the 
majority of housewives who are responsible for maintaining the man 
power of the industries of the country. A campaign of education 
directed alpng these lines by the medical staff will result in great 
benefit to the health of the working force. Too long has the doctor 
neglected this power at home which could be directed into useful co- 
operative channels. 

Where employees carry their lunches to work two problems present 
themselves for the attention of the doctor. First, a study of the 
food, will show that the average lunch is far deficient in calories. 
The writer has investigated hundreds of such lunches and the average 
contains a cold bread and meat sandwich (the bread is often a cold 
biscuit), a piece of pie and a banana. This would do occasionally but 
the same thing day in and day out is not a sufficient lunch for a hard 
working man. His fuel box is not replenished at the noon hour and 
his efficiency in the afternoon is bound to suffer. This is not so true 
in smaller towns where the dinner pail is still in use. But in our 
cities the dinner pail is out of fashion and the small paper sack which 
can be stuck in the pocket has replaced it. 

The second problem is, Where are these lunches eaten? The 
majority of girls carrying their lunches will eat them at their desks 
and then will spend the remainder of the noon hour sewing or reading. 
Or, they will congregate in some dark corner where the lunches are 
consumed, sitting there and talking for the rest of the hour. The men 
will find some secluded spot, eat their lunch, and then curl up for a nap 
or will sit inside and smoke. The incentive to get out of the building 
at the noon hour and exercise in the fresh air by walking somewhere 
for their lunch is removed when it is carried to work and kept in the 
desk or locker. 

To correct these two conditions every industry will find it 
worth while to provide lunches and proper eating places for their 
employees. 

The plant restaurant is a fixture in many concerns. The food 
should be excellently prepared and sold so reasonably that it would 
be chosen in preference to neighboring restaurants or even to carrying 
the lunch. The majority of concerns do not give sufficient attention 
to the quality and preparation of the food in their restaurants. 



FOOD 111 

The profit from such a restaurant should not be made from the sale 
of food but from the more efficient, happy, well nourished working force. 

The restaurant should be located outside the plant, forcing all 
employees to go out at the noon hour. A place should be provided 
in it for those employees to eat who carry their lunches. Some 
concerns serve milk and coffee to these in order to get them to the 
restaurant. 

A proper eating place should always be provided and then a rule 
made and enforced by the management that no employee could remain 
inside at the noon hour. During this period the department should be 
aired out thoroughly. In addition to this rule the medical staff 
should constantly urge the employees to get out of the plant at the 
noon hour and secure some healthful, invigorating exercise. 

If a restaurant is maintained at the plant, it is the duty of the 
medical staff to keep a close supervision over it. The following 
measures should be adopted in this respect: 

1. Periodical medical examination of all employees in the restau- 
rant. Every employee handling or preparing the food or working 
in the kitchens should be thoroughly examined every three months to 
ascertain if any diseased condition exists that could contaminate the 
food being served to the employees. No one should be allowed to go 
to work in the restaurant without first being examined. 

In one industry, during one year, where this plan was followed, 
two cases of tuberculosis, two of active syphilis, one of diphtheria 
and one gonorrheal case were prevented from being employed in the 
restaurant. In addition a young girl, a foreigner, who was to be 
employed as a dishwasher was found to be bodily filthy. She had not 
bathed for seven months according to her own statement. No, 
she was not rejected, but rather was given a bath by the nurse and was 
then employed with the understanding that she could hold her job 
by bathing twice a week. She reported once a week to the nurse who 
ascertained if she was living up to the contract. The contract, by 
the way, was made between the doctor, the nurse and the girl and 
no one else knew of the condition. This girl is now one of the best 
waitresses. 

The ruling out of these diseased conditions undoubtedly prevented 
the spread of disease among many employees. Such a system should 
become universal and should be carried on by every city health de- 
partment in the land as regards the public eating places. 

A business man, whom I told of this condition, immediately had 
his four servants at home examined by his family physician, and one 
or them, the cook, was discovered to have an active tuberculosis. 

2. A sanitary inspection of the kitchen and dining rooms, the 
store rooms, pantries, and refrigerators should be made frequently by 



112 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

the medical staff . These inspections if backed up vigorously by the 
management will do more than anything else to provide clean, sanitary 
conditions in the restaurant. They are essentially a part of the health 
supervision of the employees. 

The following outline suggests the things which should be inspected. 

SANITARY INSPECTION OF A RESTAURANT 

I. General Survey : 
(a) Is it clean? 

(&) Is it well ventilated? 

(c) Is it well lighted and frequently aired out? 

(d) Is it smelly? 

(e) Is it located near unsanitary surroundings? 

II. The Kitchen : 
(a) Is it clean? 
(6) Is it screened? 

(c) Are flies present. 

(d) Is the food left unduly exposed? 

(e) Are the tables greasy or covered with remnants of food ? 
(/) Are the cracks in tables clean? 

(g) Is the stove clean? 

(h) Are the ovens clean? 

(i) Are cobwebs present? 

(j) Is the plumbing in good condition and drain pipes free? 

(k) Is garbage left about and exposed? 

(I) Is the refrigerator clean, free of spoiled food, sweet smelling, 

and are the corners free of grease and food particles? Is good 

drainage from ice-box provided? 
(m) Are the store rooms clean; the shelves well arranged; and 

no spoiled food about? 

III. The Dining Room : 
(a) Is it clean? 

(6) Is it screened? 

(c) Are flies present? 

(d) Are the tables clean arid free of particles of food? 

(e) Are the dishes clean? 

(/) Are cracks in tables free from food particles? 

IV. Any Other Unsanitary Conditions Present? 

3. The food should be frequently inspected. The milk and ice 
cream should be bacteriologically examined. Every effort should be 
made to see that nourishing, well prepared food is served. 



FOOD 



113 



In a cafeteria conducted by an industry the lunches ordered were 
carefully studied. This revealed that among the girls and younger 
employees especially, the average lunch consisted of ice cream, a dill 
pickle, a piece of cake and some candy; or some other equally un- 
balanced diet. The management was prevailed upon to serve only 
nourishing food. Suggested menus were displayed and every effort 
made to influence the employees to buy proper food. Some went to 
outside cafes where the pastries and pickles were served but the 
majority fell into line. 




FIG. 20. A model cafeteria for employees. 

Where restaurants in the neighborhood of the plant are patronized 
the plant physician can take it upon himself to make an unofficial 
inspection of these places. If unsanitary conditions are found or 
questionable food is being served, he can report the place to the 
municipal health authorities. 

Close co-operation should be developed between the medical de- 
partment and the city health department as frequently you are 
forced to appeal to them on many accounts. 

The Cincinnati Milling Machine Company under the direction 
of Dr. Otto Geier has recently developed a most efficient system for 
feeding their employees. Through the courtesy of Dr. Geier I am 
permitted to publish pictures of this restaurant and of the floor plan. 



114 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



0m 

OOQQQQQOOQQO 



i m i BI 

O O O O 

(.-KM* L**-** <.toa *. 



OOOOOOOOOOOO 
QOOOOOQO N f QQOOOQOOQOQQ 



OOOOOOOOOOO 
I QOOQOQQOQOQO 





OOOOOOOOOOO 



OOOOOOOOOOOO 



OOOOOOOOOOOO 




1 

! 

r, 


=FFr ] 

t . I !! 

> ^ 

















FOOD 115 

No national health program will ever be complete that does not 
include careful supervision of foodstuffs, the places where they are 
prepared and served, the people handling them, combined with an 
educational campaign as to the proper foods which should be eaten. 
The physician in industry has it within his power to initiate this fea- 
ture of a health program for a limited number of people at least. 

FIG. 21. Dining room, floor plan, showing Cafeteria and its relation to commissary 
and locker room. (Cincinnati Milling Machine Co., Cincinnati, Ohio.) (From 
" Employees Service News. '") 

The dining room has a seating capacity of six hundred. The flow of the employees 
through the locker room into the dining room at the noon hour is indicated by the 
arrows. The three self service counters with cashiers at the cash registers, with their 
corresponding checkers, permit of a very rapid movement into the dining hall. But 
ten minutes is consumed in passing six hundred into the dining room. The convenient 
position of the kitchen reduces labor cost. The shop band plays in the dining room 
during the lunch period. The space under the band stand provides a place for the re- 
frigerating machinery which is connected up with the refrigerators in the kitchen and 
within the self service counters space. 

The self service plan makes it possible for the employees to have their choice of two 
or three kinds of meats, as many vegetables, salads and pastries as will suit both their 
appetites and their purses. It affords hot, well cooked, clean foods at a minimum cost, 
and thus should add much to the physical well-being of the shop force. The average 
check, in spite of the high cost of food, is twenty cents. 



CHAPTER XII 
RECORDS 

In any industry sufficiently modern to recognize the value of a 
medical service, practical, business-like methods prevail the same 
must be applied to the medical department. It has been pointed out 
in previous chapters that the frequent, periodical medical examination 
of each employee would be more ideal, but such a plan is not feasible. 
More practical methods of meeting the situation had to be formed. 
Again it might be more efficacious if the doctor spent more time 
in the routine medical examination of applicants but such would 
interfere with the real business of the industry, which after all is not 
the running of a young hospital. 

Rapid, efficient methods are demanded in all departments and 
the successful industrial surgeon has met these demands. At the 
same time the high standards of professional work have been 
maintained. 

Records setting forth the history of the patient, the diagnosis, 
the character of the treatment given and other necessary data are 
now recognized as indispensable to the really scientific physician. 
The history sheets and records usually employed, however, are entirely 
too voluminous for industrial practices. Therefore the records of the 
various medical departments in industries have been boiled down 
until we now have several very efficient systems of record keeping. 
Practically all such records show only positive statements or findings. 
Thus if the history is negative the space for history is left blank. 
If venereal diseases are denied nothing is mentioned about them. On 
the other hand it is much wiser to record either positive or negative 
findings wherever the question of compensation may be involved. 
For example an applicant is found to have no hernia at his examination 
for employment. The record should show " no hernia. " 

In the following pages I have presented examples of record cards 
used in my industrial clinic which have been adopted after several 
years of experience. While this may not represent the best system 
yet it shows the number of different records it is necessary to keep and 
the manner of combining them into one record. 

FILING 

Formerly separate cards were kept for medical, surgical, social 
and dental cases. Now all of these-are combined in one record called 
Doctor's Office Record. This record is kept in a folder and filed ac- 
cording to the cross-index system (according to name and number). 

116 



RECORDS 



117 



In order to quickly discern the medical, surgical or dental record on 
a case, the surgical record and all pertaining to it, namely, nurse's 
calls, laboratory or x-ray reports are typed in red; the medical record 
in black and the dental in purple. 



INFORMATION RECORD 



Hoop. No.. 
Serial No.. 

Married I 
Single j 



-Nationality 



Tdeplxna 



D.W Emp. or lUin. 


Dale Roigned 
























Physical Examination 

(Hutory of DiMua, AccidaiU or Operation.) 



Personal 



Family 



Exam, for Emp. 



Temp. 



Height 



Weight 



Eye Test 



U analysis: Albumin 



Sugar 



R 


Result of Exam. 


L 





Both 



Doctor's Recommendations 



Exam. Phya. 



Re-examinations 



Fro. 22. Information record for applicants for work. This is made out in dupli- 
cate by the employment department and is sent with the applicant when he comes 
to the doctor's office for physical examination. The nurse takes the medical personal 
history of applicant, also temperature, pulse, weight, height, eye test and urinalysis. 
The applicant is then sent in to the doctor, who examines him. If physical defects 
are found which might interfere with his work at present, applicant is asked to report 
for re-examination. After being examined, he takes both original and duplicate to 
employment department. If he is employed, the employment department notes the 
department to which he is assigned, also serial number and returns original copy with 
this information to doctor's office. In case of handicapped persons who are employed j 
their job is selected after a conference between the employment manager and the doctor. 



118 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



DOCTOR'S OFFICE PASS N9 18351 D 

Name Dept 

Serial 
Address Number 



O.K.- 



Mke Out in Duplicate and Snd Beth Copi to Doctor'. Office. 
MM 

FIG. 23. Doctor's office pass. This pass is issued in duplicate to the employee 
who wishes to go or is called to report at the doctor's office. He gives it to the record 
clerk at the door, she numbers and stamps time in on it, then gives the original to the 
file clerk to look up employee's record. When employee is ready to leave the depart- 
ment, the doctor or nurse who last cared for him, returns pass and he again presents it to 
the record clerk at the door. She looks up duplicate, stamps both with time out and 
gives duplicate to the employee to give to his manager and retains the original at this 
office. 



RECORDS 



119 



Del* Bnployed 10 / 

6. M. B. A. , '. _ 

Name Casey, John. 



DOCTOR '3 OFFICE RBCORD 



Dtpt 187 Hosp. No. XXXX. 





DATE 


T... 


. 


.., 




rj 


niiw 


LOST 


A 




1/3/1 


,tf 


7* 


Idl 


Indigestion. Seldlltz. Dept. C.lt.K 










i/"/ 


,c 






Abraded left thumb on broken china. Piece 


















of china removed.. D.D. To report in A.M. 
DHi '/RHFljSKi 










i/ifi/. 


a 






n.p. plflo-h- 








ii 


0/;e 


00 


86 




Headache. Aches all over. Influenza. 


10. 3C 
















DR. ELLIS. 








12 


22/10 


te 


6 




Reporting. In no condition to return to work. 


















Horn* again. DR7ELLTS 








12 


27/16 








Nurse's call A.V.C. Absent since 12/20/16. 










* 








Reported 12/22/16, but was given pass home 
again. Has grippe. Has had no doctor, but 








, 










Is using home remedies. Is up and around, but 
very weak and rundown. Temp. 98. 2 Return indeflr 


ite. 






1 


12/17 


w 1 






12/1 
Influenza. Examination negative. 


22/l 
2 P,l 


bAJ 


117 dai 


flant. 


i-sp- 


7 






All taeth pyorrheic. Referred to family D.D.S 


















adviaing cleaning and 1 filling* Btcall 
2-Sft-ET P R MOHtSOMEBY, 








D.nt. 


J-SSw 


7 






-** 
Reporting. Proper prophylaxia adinltre<J ty 


















family D.D.S. Susceptibility to focal Infect- 
ion n,gl S ibl. - ' DR. MOHTGOUiSRT. 








3 


'22/17 








Raslened. 








2 


'10/16 








Reinstated. 








4 


'29/18 








8.30 A.U. Vhlla at work on 4/27/18 packing 


















hardware, pat lent punctured right index finger 


















to it and did not use iodine. No witness. 


















Reported her* 4/89/18 8.30 A.M. Finger swollen 


















and painrui. Temp. 100. 4* Seen by Dr. Pox and 


















kdvised because of .lymphangitis. At 1 P.M. 
tampBT>atut )oo.A. Sent * n Wrtilngt-on Blvd Hosi 


ital 
















for continuoua hot dressings. 










/s/ie 








Reporting. Left hospital this A.M. 










/a/18 








Returned to work. OB. FOX* 




















, 







FIG. 24. Doctor's office record. This is made out either the first time the em- 
ployee comes to the doctor's office for examination or treatment or when a nurse's 
call is made at an employee's home. All subsequent information and treatment of 
whatever nature is kept on this record. The medical record is written in black; the 
accident record in red and the dental record in purple thus facilitating the reading 
of the record. 



120 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



EMPLOYE'S GENERAL PASS 



Tin* pM to be Mod foiot from one department to another, one building to another, 
or when levin< pUnt for any porpo.c whatsoercr. 



To Usher: 
Paw 



Date. 



From Dept.. 



Time Going- 



Rea*on 



On tho ibor. line. dealcuu the deputaMit and bolfclliK la which the raptor* U Mat If the employe U lc*m 

Kj. po will 

thorto f . . . 

not To Mom (or UK dtf. la which cut it will bt uko v t b; the mter. 



FIG. 25. Employee's pass home. This is issued by the doctor's office when an 
employee is sent home on account of illness. 



EMPLOYES' RETURN TO 

Date employpfj... . Dat* 


WORK PASS 


Member of S. M. R A 


n>pt. 


NHM 


Returned to work today. Absent 


days on 


account of 




Doctor's office 




Signed _ , .. 









FIG. 26. Return to work pass. This is issued by the doctor's office when employee 
is able to return to work after absence on account of illness. 



RECORDS 



121 



REPORT OF ACCIDENT 



No. 



INSTRUCTIONS: Accident,, Howervr Slight, Mint B Reported In Full 



.191. 



ALL OF THESE It QUESTIONS WBJ. U FILLED OUT IN THE DOCTOR'S OFFICE 
1. Name 2. Address 



3. Department. 



Aos. 5. Occupation- 



6. Nature and Extent of Injury- 



7. Description of Accident by Injured Person (Give full details). 



8. Statement of Witness or Other Person Familiar with Accident 



9. Name and Location of Machine, Appliance or Thing Causing Accident- 

10. Wliere Taken After Accident? 

11. Name of Attending Physician 



12. Probable Length of Disability 

13. Date of Accident Hour- 

15. Remarks 



14. Date Reported to Doctor's Office Hour- 



18. If sent outside of Doctor's Office for treatment, state where sent, why, and when sent (date and hour) 



In case of operation or treatment of any land, outside of Doctor's Office, full details must be given in space pro* 
Tided on Final Accident Report. 



Signed- 



Fio. 27. Report of accident. This record is made out in quadruplicate on all 
accident cases where time is lost. One copy is retained in employee's record, one 
is sent to the safety engineer, one is sent to the manager and the other is sent to the 
payroll department. 



122 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



QUESTIONS 17 TO 32 TO BE FILLED OUT IN THE DEPARTMENT 



17. Length of Service o{ the Employe- 

18. Has He a Wife or Children? 



19. How Long Engaged on This Work? 

20. Was Injured Person Familiar or Not With the Work Engaged in, 

or With the Machinery Operated at the Time of the Accident? 

21. Instructed as to Its Hazards? 

22. Has He Done Similar Work Prior to This Employment? 

23. Was Accident Due to Want of Care on the Part of Injured Person? 

24. Was Accident Due to Negligence on the Part of Any Person? 

25. If So, How? 



26. Who Was in Charge of the Work Where Accident Occurred ?_ 

27. Give Names and Addresses of Witnesses 



28. Is Injured Person a Member of the S "M B. A.? 

29. Should S.. R & Co Pay Salary During Disability >_ 



30. Serial No_ 
32. Remarks _ 



31. Time Card No.. 



Signed- 



Date- 



.191- 



Maniger Dept.. 



A. E. & C. CHECKS ISSUE"D FOR TIME LOST 



Check Isftoed 


FOf Week 

Ending 


Dan Paid 


A.,,, 


t:<vk !isi:c,l 


Tor Week 
Ending 


Darn Pi id 
For 


Amount 


Check Issued 


For Week 
Ending 


DariPald 


Amount 
















































































































































































































































































FIG. 28. Back of accident report to be filled out in the department. 



RECORDS 



123 



FINAL ACCIDENT REPORT. 



SUI'PLEMENTARY TO ORIGINAL REPORT. 



I. Name- 



3. Department - 



- Emp. No 



5. Nature of Injury . 



2. -Adim. 



4. Occupation- 



6. Date of Accident - 



7. Date of Returning to Work 

8. Partial or Complete Recovery - 



9. Amount ol Disability (time). Fr< 

10. Name of Attending Physician 

11. Remarb 



-both inclusive. 



12. If talen to an outside hospital, fill out the following: 

Name of Hospital 

Date 



Nature of Treatment or Operation- 



Attending Physi 



13. If given treatment outside of Doctor's Office or outside hospital, (ill out the following: 
Where Treated 



Nature of Treatment- 



Date- 



- Hour- 



Name of Physici; 



Signed. 



FIG. 29. Final accident report. This report is made out in quadruplicate on all 
accident cases where time is lost, when an employee returns to work. One copy is 
retained in employee's record, one sent to the safety engineer, one sent to the manager 
and the other is sent to the payroll department. 



124 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



Dale. 

RLPORT OF NURSE'5 CALL 



Requested by_ 
Name Dept 



Address__ S. M. B. 



Length of Service 1st Day Absent. 



Dr Address, 



Instructive . 

Return Nursing 

Remarks 



*rtl To be mde out in TRIPLICATE. 

FIG. 30. Request for nurse's call. This is made out in triplicate by departments 
and sent to the doctor's office when requesting a nurse's call. One copy is retained 
in the doctor's office, one is sent to the department and the third is sent to the welfare 
department. The one retained by the doctor's office is filed according to date and kept 
for one month or until the monthly report is made out. If the doctors or nurses wish 
call or revisit made on an employee, they also fill put one of these blanks, dating it 
for the day they wish call to be made. It is then put in file for that day and is auto- 
matically handled at that time. 



CHAPTER XIII 
INDUSTRIAL HEALTH SERVICE 

A RESUME OF ITS GROWTH 

Hygiene, which is the science of health preservation, and deals 
with all the laws of sanitation, has developed a specific significance 
when applied to Industry. It includes plant sanitation, prevention of 
occupational diseases and most of the measures adopted for the super- 
vision of the health of employees. 

From the employer's standpoint industrial hygiene is now recognized 
as the cornerstone of maximum production. From the standpoint of 
the medical man it is the cornerstone of preventive medicine. 

Industrial Hygiene, however, does not include the entire field of 
Industrial Medicine and Surgery a mistake which apparently has 
been made by some workers in this field. The all-round Industrial 
Surgeon must have a clear understanding of these laws of industrial 
sanitation but he must also be a competent diagnostician and capable 
of treating disease and injuries. 

This form of public health service was rarely mentioned prior to 
fifteen years ago, but to-day it is receiving the attention of engineers, 
physicians and employers in general. Medical schools and engineering 
schools are teaching their students various phases of Industrial Hygi- 
ene. State Legislatures are enacting new laws to better the sanitary 
conditions of workmen. In fact, few subjects have received such 
widespread attention or have reacted for greater good to the nation 
in so short a time. 

In 1911 the author published the following statements in a booklet 
on Medical Work and Sanitation in Industry: 

"Industrial sanitation is practically a new subject. While it is 
years behind other forms of sanitation, such as the work of our 
municipal and state boards of health, the improvement of conditions 
in state prisons and asylums, and the United States Government meth- 
ods for the preservation of health among our soldiers and sailors, yet, 
in this country, during the last decade, some notable advances have 
been made tending to vastly improve the conditions of the working men 
and women. Chief among these has been the creation of departments 
of Industry and Labor in many states of the Union. Through the 
work of these departments child labor has diminished, shorter hours 
(especially for women and children) have been obtained, women are 

125 



126 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

allowed to sit while at work and are surrounded by healthier and less 
demoralizing conditions, overcrowding of workshops has been greatly 
reduced, and employees are more and more protected from dangerous 
machinery and injurious gases and dusts. But, the advancement 
thus far along these lines is only a very small beginning, and a careful 
study of our various state labor laws reveals the fact that until these 
are made more stringent, very little can be accomplished for the bet- 
terment of health in our industries. 

"The report of the Department of Commerce and Labor for 1909 
and the various state labor laws show that only twenty-one states have 
a section bearing directly upon the subject of factory and workshop 
sanitation. Alabama, Illinois, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Ohio, Ore- 
gon, Tennessee and West Virginia state that all workshops must have 
'proper ventilation and proper sanitary conditions,' but none of these 
makes specific recommendations as to what constitutes 'proper.' The 
standard for these conditions is evidently left to the judgment of the 
State Factory Inspector which is not always a good plan. The laws 
of Indiana, Maryland, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania and Wis- 
consin are somewhat better, because these states require that every 
employee within an enclosure must have a certain amount of air 
space, varying from 250 to 400 cubic feet per person. These states 
are also slightly more specific in their requirements for proper 
sanitary conditions. Illinois and New York have stronger laws than 
the few other states that mention it, dealing with the restriction of 
the sale of articles manufactured by diseased employees or made in 
unhealthy surroundings. Practically all of these states require that 
fans, blowers and suction pipes shall be installed in workshops where 
injurious gases or dust exist, to facilitate the removal of the same. 
Missouri and New Jersey require the painting or whitewashing of the 
interior of all workshops at least once a year. Missouri has a law 
against overcrowding of factories, which can be enforced if a certificate 
is obtained from any reputable physician that said factory is crowded 
to the extent that it is unhealthful. 

"Massachusetts alone requires the placing of cuspidors in all 
buildings where people are employed. But neither Massachusetts nor 
any other state legally stipulates how these cuspidors shall be cleaned 
or handled. It is, indeed, paradoxical that we have laws prohibiting 
spitting anywhere but in cuspidors, and yet there are no laws designat- 
ing how the contents of the same shall be disposed of. In most cases 
disposal is left to the whims of the porter in charge. The fact that the 
death rate from consumption is higher among porters than among any 
other class of workers points to the highly infectious nature of the 
contents of these cuspidors. Not alone the porters, but- the whole 
community is exposed by the careless handling of these germ incu- 



INDUSTRIAL HEALTH SERVICE 



127 



bators where the flies delight to feed. There is no state law in the 
country prohibiting consumptives from working in intimate contact 
with other employees, and only a few states specify that consumptives 
shall not be employed in bakeries or other places where food products 
are prepared. Even these do not provide for regular inspection 
of such employees by a physician in order to rule out the tuberculous. 

"This short resume of the various state labor laws in their relation 
to sanitation will certainly impress the layman, who is especially in- 
terested, as well as any medical man, with their great lack of preventive 
legislation, which, if enacted and enforced, would greatly reduce the 
death rate among the wage earners, and at the same time improve the 
hygienic and economic conditions of every community." 

Since the above was published almost every state in the Union has 
enacted laws seeking to improve the working conditions of employees. 
Thirty-seven of our states now have laws on Employees Compensa- 
tion. Recently some of these states have included occupational dis- 
eases under the causes for compensation. To-day at least four of the 
states are considering laws for sickness insurance for workmen. 

All of these laws, enacted for the benefit of employees, have 
improved industrial health conditions to a great extent. Yet, we can 
repeat our statement made in 1911, that a resume of the laws must 
impress one with the lack of preventive legislation, which if enacted 
and enforced, would greatly reduce the death rate among wage earners. 

If the legislative advancement along these lines has been rather slow, 
the voluntary advancement of industrial hygiene by many of our large 
concerns, by national organizations and by a few state departments of 
Industry and Labor has been very rapid. 

Prior to 1909 a few state factory inspectors and a few other indi- 
viduals had called the nation's attention to the wastage of human life 
by some of the more flagrant unsanitary conditions in industry. 
About this date there seemed to be a great incentive given to the 
subject by the writings of a number of physicians connected with 
industrial concerns. 

The studies of Dr. Thomas Crowder on ventilation, of Dr. Alice 
Hamilton on lead poisoning, of Dr. J. W. Schereschewsky, and of Dr. 
George Price on health conditions among garment workers, and of men 
like Dr. E. R. Hayhurst an4 Dr. Francis Patterson working in connec- 
tion with the- departments of Industry and Labor of the states of Ohio 
and Pennsylvania respectively, stand out as milestones in the advance- 
ment of Industrial Health in this country. 

Extending inspection to the employees themselves, by physical 
examinations, as well as the inspections of their working places, was one 
of the greatest advances ever made in health supervision in this country. 
In 1906 Dr. Frank Fulton, in Providence, R. I., examined a number of 



128 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

employees free of charge for the purpose of discovering tuberculous 
workers. This is one of the first examples recorded of a careful 
effort at supervision of the health of workmen. In 1909 Mock started 
the examination of employees in the concern of Sears, Roebuck & 
Company, of Chicago, for the purpose of discovering the tuberculous. 
It soon became evident that such a procedure revealed many other 
diseases, which, taken in their incipiency, could be checked. This 
fact, because of its economic basis, became one of the strongest 
arguments in favor of the physical examination of employees. Similar 
reports setting forth the benefits of this practice were made during the 
next few years by Dr. Irving Clark of the Norton Grinding Company, 
Worcester, Massachusetts, by Dr. Otto Geier of the Cincinnati 
Milling Machine Company, by Dr. Wilbur Post, of the Peoples Gas Co., 
Chicago, by Dr. C. G. Farnum of the Avery Company, Peoria, Ill- 
inois, by Dr. S. M. McCurdy, of the Youngstown Sheet and Tube 
Company, by W.G. Hudson, of the Du Pont Company, and other work- 
ers in this field. By 1914 physical examinations of employees was a 
fixture in many industries. 

The Committee on Factories of the Chicago Tuberculosis Institute, 
composed of Drs. James Britton, Theodore Sachs and Henry Faville, 
was instrumental in extending this system to a number of the other 
industries of Chicago. Their report on this work, presented before the 
National Tuberculosis Association in 1914, gave a marked impetus to 
this branch of Industrial Hygiene throughout the country. Since 
then the National Tuberculosis Association has been a stanch advocate 
of this form of medical work. 

With the formation of the National Safety Council such physicians 
as Geier, Patterson, A. M. Harvey, Farnum, Irving Clark, Mock, 
McCurdy, C. A. Lauff er, L. A. Shoudy and others, pointed out the need of 
improving the hygienic conditions of the workmen as a definite part 
of any accident prevention program. As a result, this great organiza- 
tion formed its Health Service Section in 1914, which has been instru- 
mental in improving sanitation in so many of our large industrial 
concerns. 

In the American Public Health Association Drs. W. A. Evans, 
E. T. Fisk, Alice Hamilton and others were among the first to recognize 
the influence of this form of public health work, and with some 50 
other physicians formed the Section of Industrial Hygiene in that 
organization during the fall of 1914. 

For years the American Medical Association had frowned on the 
contract practices and other types of work of the company surgeon. 
The standard of this work in many instances had been far below par. 
But public recognition of this new specialty of industrial medicine was 
given in 1915 by this association. In the annual meeting of that year 



INDUSTRIAL HEALTH SERVICE 129 

the Preventive Medical Section of the American Medical Association, 
Dr. Otto Geier, Chairman, had a symposium on industrial Hygiene. 
Since then industrial medicine and surgery has had a place on every 
annual program of that section. In addition, this year the Orthopedic 
section of the American Medical Association had a symposium on 
industrial surgery. The recognition of this work by the leading mem- 
bers of our profession testifies to the higher professional standard which 
it has attained. 

In the East, a number of physicians in 1914 formed the Conference 
Board of Industrial Physicians, under the secretaryship of Magnus 
Alexander. Many of the leaders in industrial medicine and surgery 
are numbered among its members. Some of the greatest contributions 
to' industrial hygiene have been made by this group. In the West, such 
men as Dr. R. W. Corwin, of Colorado, Drs. Tucker, Philip King 
Brown and Robert T. Legge, of California, Dr. J. R. Yocom, of 
Washington, and others, have been responsible for improving condi- 
tions in the mining and lumbering industries. 

Recognizing that the public health of the nation was being influ- 
enced to a very marked degree by these various efforts of local and 
national organizations, the U. S. Public Health Service formed its divi- 
sion of industrial sanitation. With such men as Schereschewsky, C. F. 
Rucker, B. S. Warren and A. J. Lanza in the Public Health Service, 
and such consultants as David Edsall, Price, Oilman Thompson, A. S. 
Stengel, C. D. Selby, and others, great progress has been made during 
the last five years in improving health conditions among employees 
engaged in certain industrial lines where the health hazards have been 
excessive. 

Likewise, the U. S. Department of Labor has rendered most valuable 
service to the countiy through the work of Drs. Alice Hamilton, Royal 
Meeker, L. P. Cheney, and others. These workers and their assistants 
have made exhaustive studies along various lines of industrial sanita- 
tion. Their work on occupational diseases, accident hazards, fatigue, 
ventilation, lighting and numerous other subjects, has formed a basis 
for correcting faulty conditions in many kinds of industry. 

The Bureau of Mines has been engaged in a similar service in the 
mining industries of the country. These efforts of the National Gov- 
ernment to improve the hygienic conditions of the employees of the 
nation's industries are most praiseworthy. They mark the beginning 
of what must finally come to pass a centralized supervision of 
health conditions throughout the country, not only among industrial 
employees but in all walks of life. 

It is to be deplored that several Federal departments are engaged 
in this work, as at present. The desire to justify appropriations, to 
secure credit for doing a piece of work, and certain interdepartmental 



130 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

jealousies which prevent proper co-operation between departments, 
all tend to duplication of effort and retardation of results. 

There is no doubt that certain angles of this work has to do 
directly with the question of labor. But the chief problems of indus- 
trial hygiene are primarily health problems and should be centralized 
under that federal agency which is responsible for the public health 
of the nation. 

In 1916, recognizing the great need of uniting to secure the greatest 
advancement in these health problems in industry, the physicians 
and surgeons of the country, engaged in industrial medicine and sur- 
gery, organized the American Association of Industrial Physicians 
and Surgeons. The men, who during the preceding eight or ten years, 
had been striving alone or in subsections of other organizations, now 
met for the first time as a united group with a common purpose. The 
combined efforts of this association has undoubtedly done more to 
raise the standards of the physician engaged in industrial practice, 
and to increase the benefits from this work to both employees and 
employers, than any other one agency which has entered this field. 

During the last five years medical schools have recognized the 
great opportunity for service offered to physicians in the field of in- 
dustrial medicine and surgery. Doctor Legge, at the University of 
California, started a course on Industrial Hygiene which has become 
very popular with all the students. Hayhurst instituted a similar course 
in the University of Ohio. Stengel at the University of Pennsylva- 
nia, and Thompson at Cornell, introduced the subject of occupational 
diseases in the curriculum of those schools. Harvard, co-operating 
with the Massachusetts General Hospital, has held clinics on occupa- 
tional diseases for several years. Mock at Rush Medical College, 
some three years ago, started a night clinic on industrial medicine 
and surgery. It has had the strong support of such men as Billings, 
Herrick, Dodson, Ellis and others, and is now recognized as one of the 
great sociologic movements of Chicago. This course affords the stu- 
dents a very broad training in every phase of work encountered by the 
physician in industrial practice. No one effort put forth by medical 
schools will yield so great a return in benefits to the nation's health as 
these courses on industrial medicine. 

A great many other men, both physicians and laymen, have had 
an important part in developing this great public health movement. 
Through their efforts industrial medicine and hygiene have become 
most potent factors in the Industrial life of our nation. Never again 
will we return to those dark ages when the human machine was driven 
to the limit without lubrication or repair and simply "scrapped" 
when disease, often the direct result of the occupation, robbed it of 
further usefulness. 



INDUSTRIAL HEALTH SERVICE 



131 



The physicians and other workers in industrial hygiene cannot 
claim all the credit for the developments that have taken place in this 
field. Some of our large corporations, without the help or advice of 
medical men, have voluntarily started improvements in the working 
conditions of their employees. The work of the National Cash Regis- 
ter Company, at Dayton, Ohio, will always stand out in the industrial 
history of our country as one of the pioneer efforts to improve condi- 
tions for the comfort and welfare of the employees. There may be 
many criticisms of the system adopted by that concern, but neverthe- 
less its example and influence was a great stimulus to other em- 
ployers to take a more humane attitude toward their people. 

In more recent years the Ford Motor Company has adopted a 
broad economic and sociologic policy toward their employees which 
has for its very foundation most of the principles of industrialliygiene. 
They have found it necessary to form the closest co-operation between 
their sociologic department and their medical department. In fact, 
in very few concerns is the medico-sociologic aspects of this work 
in industry more clearly demonstrated. 

The housing experiments of the United States Steel Corporation 
are well known, and mark a decided advance in industrial hygiene. 
Many other concerns in this country have recognized the relation- 
ship between improved home conditions, better health and increased 
production. 

As a result of these combined efforts of individuals, organizations, 
and certain employers on the one hand, and of the various state and 
federal agencies on the other, we are able to point to approximately 
8,000,000 of the workers of the nation who are receiving the benefits 
of this enlightened era in industry to a more or less degree. There 
still remain about 30,000,000 of our people who are responsible for pro- 
duction of some type in this country who are not receiving any kind of 
health supervision. Many of these are working under intolerable 
conditions. The amount of child labor still in use is unbelievable. 
The lack of protection against the commonest forms of occupational 
diseases is appalling. 

Even in many of those concerns where maximum production is so 
essential at this time for the winning of the War we find inadequate 
housing conditions, unsanitary factory conditions, prevalence of occu- 
pational diseases, and a high accident rate due to speeding up and 
"green hands." The labor turn-over in some of these concerns is over 
500 per cent. To counteract this labor turn-over higher and still 
higher wages are being paid often defeating their purpose by increas- 
ing turn-over. Even patriotism cannot overcome the bad influence 
on the working man of such intolerable conditions. 

The adoption of the sane principles of industrial hygiene by these 



132 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

concerns is already taking place. The shipbuilding yards, under the 
direction of Major Philip Doane, M. C. U. S. A. and later under the 
direction of the U. S. Public Health Service, are completing a com- 
prehensive system in every yard. The housing bureau is beginning 
to improve the living conditions of these men. The United States 
Public Health Service, the National Research Bureau and the Commit- 
tee on Hazardous Occupations of the Department of Labor are all 
working to improve the protection afforded to munition workers, and 
others in war industries, against occupational diseases. 

Thus, under the stimulus of war, industrial medicine is making its 
greatest advances. Decreased sickness, decreased accident rate, de- 
creased labor turn-over have already resulted in increased production. 

Production everywhere is the most vital need of the day. On it 
depends the victory or defeat of our armies. Those concerns which 
continue to waste their man power with a resulting diminution of 
output should be commandeered. 

Conservation of man power with maximum production is the battle 
cry of the country. The adoption of Industrial Health Services by 
every industry is the answer. 



PART II 
PREVENTION 



CHAPTER XIV 



PREVENTIVE MEDICINE AND PREVENTIVE 
SURGERY IN INDUSTRIES 

Industrial medicine and surgery consists of applying the general 
principles of medicine and surgery to a large group of people as a 
unit. While individuals receive special medical or surgical care when- 
ever needed, yet it is apparent in every chapter of this book that 
prevention is the keynote of all this work; prevention of diseases or 
accidents among the entire group of employees; prevention of undue 
loss of time when injury or disease assails an employee; prevention of 
deformities and permanent disabilities, the result of diseases or acci- 
dents; prevention of inefficiency on the job when traceable to some 
physical condition; in fact, the prevention of everything which would 
tend to undermine the physical or mental welfare of the individual 
or of the entire group of employees. 

In order to accomplish this many of our largest industries have 
developed large staffs of capable physicians and surgeons who spend 
half or all of their time at the plant. Here by being on the job in 
the front line trench of industry they are not only in the strategic 
position to study and apply every phase of prevention, but also to 
practise the best form of prevention, namely, immediate and proper 
medical and surgical care for every sick or injured employee. 

It is quite evident therefore that industrial medicine and surgery 
must include many activities aside from the specific treatment of 
disease. 

As the various chapters deal with some phase of prevention we will 
endeavor here to 'give only an outline of the preventive work with which 
the industrial surgeon must familiarize himself in order to become 
proficient. 

Thinking of the work therefore in terms of prevention we must 
consider first, the employees; second, the physical conditions of the 
plant; third, the activities of the concern. 

133 



134 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

I. PREVENTION AMONG THE EMPLOYEES 

A. The applicants for work: 

1. Complete physical examination of: 

(a) To protect the old force from men capable of spreading 

disease among them. 
(6) T6 prevent the diseased applicants from going to work 

when work of any kind would be injurious to them, 
(c) To prevent applicants with physical handicaps from being 

placed at hazardous work for them, or at jobs where they 

could not be efficient. 

2. -Acquainting the applicants with all forms of disease and 
accident prevention measures in operation in the plant 
immediately upon employment. 

(a) This prevents disaster because of ignorance. 
(&) They at once become co-operative units with the existing 
system. 

B. The old employees : 

1. Complete physical examination of, either periodically or 
whenever some condition arises showing the need of a general 
survey. 

(a) To discover threatened disease early, while still prevent- 
able or curable. 

(6) To discover any existing condition that makes the em- 
ployee prone to accident or to cause accident to others. 
It is just as important to survey the human machine to 
prevent accidents as it is to survey the mechanical appli- 
ances of the plant. 

(c) To rule out those with contagious conditions to prevent 
spread of disease. 

(d) To discover those with handicapped conditions, either 
physical or mental, and to place them at types of work 
which will not be hazardous for them and where they can 
still be efficient in spite of the handicap. 

(e) Examination should precede the treatment of any con- 
dition, no matter how minor, thus preventing the admin- 
istering of the wrong type of treatment through lack of 
knowledge of the true condition or coincident disorders. 

2. Secure the co-operation and interest of employees in your 
efforts for prevention of disease and accidents by : 

(a) Explaining the reasons for any action taken, to each 

individual. 
(6) Secure team work by employees' committees on "accident 

prevention," "disease prevention," "sanitation move- 



PREVENTIVE MEDICINE AND SURGERY IN INDUSTRIES 135 

ments." Add new members to the committees fre- 
quently and meet with them often. Make them 
working committees. 

(c) Spread prevention propaganda on every phase of the 
subject throughout the working force by personal con- 
ferences with individuals, by lectures and motion picture 
shows, by use of bulletin boards, by terse facts printed 
on backs of pay envelopes, by circulars inserted in pay 
envelopes, by a plant paper or bulletin issued weekly. 

(d) Get the officials of the concern interested and use their 
influence to put across the ideas. 




FIG. 31. This toilet caused 17 cases of typhoid, two of them fatal. Loss in 
wages and care of the 17 men amounted to $3000.00. (Typhoid Bulletin, issued by 
Industrial Surgeons' Association of Washington.) 

(e) Assist the diseased employees at all times in securing 
the best forms of treatment, thus demonstrating your 
friendly interest in them. These become "medical 
missionaries" throughout the working force. 
3. Study the relationship between employee and his work: 

(a) Study this relationsip in every case coming before you to 
ascertain if "a round peg is fitted in a round hole," or if 
the work is incompatible to the employee's mental or 
physical well-being. This will not only prevent a phys- 
ical or nervous breakdown often but will prevent in- 
efficiency in production an inefficiency preventable 
by transferring the man to work for which he is better 
qualified. 



136 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



Fatigue poisoning from overwork, from monotony of the 
same and rapidly repeated motions and other causes, will 
be discovered and can be prevented. 
Occupational diseases, and latent possibilities for such 
diseases in occupations heretofore unsuspected, will thus 
be found, and steps taken to prevent them. 
Suggestions for the prevention of accidents will follow 
a study of this relationship of man to his work. 
4. Study the relationship between employee and fellow employees: 
(a) Incompatibility between an employee and his foreman or 
some fellow employee may be the cause of a nervous or 
physical breakdown. The doctor, if he secures the con- 



(c) 



(d) 




FIG. 32. "Same toilet as in Figure 31 rendered safe and fly-proof at cost of less 
than $5.00 after the epidemic. Why not before?" The Industrial Surgeons' As- 
sociation of Washington has carried on an unceasing warfare against typhoid fever 
among the lumbermen of the Northwest. 

fidences of all employees, may be the first to discover such 
a condition and by reporting it to the proper authorities 
can prevent both inefficiency and the threatened break- 
down. 

(6) Among girl employees one given to infrequent bathing 
with resulting bad odors may be the cause of nervousness 
and unrest among the other employees a condition which 
the doctor is often called upon to correct and which 
demands diplomacy in handling. 

(c) A close study of this relationship is necessary to prevent 
many diseases, many accidents, and much inefficiency. 
5. Specific preventive measures rendered employees: 

(a) Search for focal infections and removal of same special- 
ists such as dentists, nose and throat men will be needed 
on the staff for this work. 



PREVENTIVE MEDICINE AND SURGERY IN INDUSTRIES 137 

(6) Recommending vacations, change of work, special treat- 
ment and other specific measures to prevent more serious 
conditions from developing. 

(c) Vaccination and specific inoculations against disease, as 
antityphoid prevention. 

(d) Fumigation of working rooms after an employee is found 
.with some contagious disease. 

(e) Recommending proper and immediate treatment for all 
conditions found and supervising the employee to see 
that same is carried out. 

6. Employees' home conditions: 

(a) Unsanitary home conditions, home worries, sickness in 
the family, and many other conditions may be the cause 
of an employee's physical or mental breakdown. The 
doctor must subtly study these conditions and suggest 
needed remedies as a part of his prevention program. 
Assistance must often be obtained from the employer to 
correct many of them. 

(6) The employees must be taught to report contagious dis- 
eases in their family in order that the doctor can safe- 
guard the fellow employees. 

(c) Friendly interest in and constructive help to the members 
of an employee's family always react favorably on the 
health and productivity of an employee, and therefore 
is a definite part of the prevention program. 



H. PREVENTION AS RELATED TO THE PHYSICAL 
CONDITIONS OF THE PLANT 

A. Industrial Hygiene: 

1. This deals with the hygienic and sanitary conditions of the 
working place. These must be brought to the highest stand- 
ards in order to prevent disease among the employees as a 
result of working conditions. This involves a study of the 
sanitary arrangements of the following and correction when 
necessary : 

(a) The construction of the building. 

(6) Arrangements for lighting and ventilation. 

(c) Cleaning of the interior of the buildings. 

(d) Washing and toilet facilities. 
(e) Removal of fumes and dust. 

(0 Removal of refuse that would tend to breed flies, mos- 
quitoes, and other disease agencies. 



138 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



(0) Drainage, and sewage disposal. 

(h) Proper protection of employees from fumes, or direct 
contact with material that is detrimental to health, and 
all other forms of protection from occupational diseases. 
B. Accident Prevention: 

1. Changes in construction of building so that dangerous stair- 
ways, unprotected elevator shafts or light shafts, unprotected 
platforms or other elevations, narrow halls, sharp corners, 
doors opening the wrong way, or similar conditions, will not 
tend to cause accidents. 




FIG. 33. Shell filling factory in England. Cleanliness, good ventilation, proper 
lighting, concrete floors, and respirators aid in production by preventing disease. 

2. Repair of all broken boards in floor, broken window panes, 
loose parts in walls or ceiling, or other dangerous conditions 
about the building 

3. Removal of loose nails, boards, broken glass, broken parts of 
machinery, tools and all obstacles so placed as to cause 
accidents. 

4. Careful arrangement of stock, boxes, cases, etc., so that they 
will not fall and cause injury. 

5. Repair of all tools, machinery, and appliances used in work 
so that accidents will not occur to the user of the parts or to 
fellow employees. < 

6. Safeguarding all machinery and other physical appliances 



PREVENTIVE MEDICINE AND SURGERY IN INDUSTRIES 139 

about the plant with special safety apparatus whenever 
possible. 

7. Protection of individuals from potential accidents when their 
work is hazardous by the wearing of special appliances as 
goggles, gloves, etc. 

8. Frequent inspections of the physical conditions of plant com- 
bined with inspection of physical conditions of the human 
machines the employees will result in the prevention of the 
majority of accidents. 

C. Fire prevention, protection from explosions, from collapse of 
buildings and other disasters of like nature have never been 
considered a feature of medical or surgical work, but the in- 
dustrial surgeon, responsible for the health and safety of the 
employees, must likewise become an expert in the prevention of 
these disasters. 

HI. PREVENTION AS RELATED TO THE ACTIVITIES 
OF THE INDUSTRY 

A. General rules of prevention as above laid down are applicable 
to all employees and to the physical conditions of all industries. 
But the industrial surgeon by a study of his special industry 
and the nature of the work carried on will discover many specific 
preventive measures which he must employ. 

B. The railway surgeon will meet with traffic and transportation 
accidents which must be prevented. The physical condition 
of each employee must be carefully studied to s"ee that he is not 
a potential cause for accidents to others. 

C. The mine surgeon will need to study the hazards from gases, 
and other conditions pertinent to mine workers. 

D. Munition manufacturing has introduced the need of medical 
men highly trained in the prevention of certain forms of 
poisoning. 

E. The physician in charge of merchandizing concerns or of large 
office forces must study and prevent disease from overcrowding, 
from sedentary working habits, from poor ventilation. 

F. Thus, the industrial surgeon must at the earliest opportunity 
acquaint himself with the activities of the industry as a whole 
and of each employee in order to competently meet his specific 
problems in prevention. 

From a study of the above outline it is quite evident that prevention 
forms the very foundation of all industrial medical and surgical work. 
The industrial surgeon who neglects to approach his job from this 
angle is failing in his responsibilities to both the employee and 
employer. 



140 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

The shortsighted policy of providing the cheapest kind of medical 
treatment to the injured or occupationally diseased employee without 
expending any money on the prevention of these conditions is rapidly 
becoming a thing of the past. The employer is realizing that cheap 
medical care is often the most expensive and that it is far more eco- 
nomical to prevent than to repair. 

The company surgeon of the future must be thoroughly trained in 
preventive medicine and preventive surgery in their broadest aspects. 



CHAPTER XV 
INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE 

A GENERAL OUTLINE OF THE PROBLEMS 

Every industry has its specific problems of industrial hygiene which 
the surgeon in charge must endeavor to discover, master and correct 
or improve wherever possible. 

Frequently some one of the official inspectors from the United 
States Public Health Service or from the Department of Labor report 
that the plant physician in a certain industry "did not know there 
was even an opportunity for lead poisoning in the processes carried 
on there;" or, "he didn't know a case of phosphorus poisoning when 
he saw one;" or, "he resented the statement that there were dust and 
fume hazards. " Ignorance such as this on the part of the physician 
who is constantly on the job, and should therefore be the best informed 
in regard to local conditions, is inexcusable. It reflects upon the en- 
tire group of industrial physicians and surgeons. Unfortunately, 
the reputations of many company physicians in the past have been of 
the lowest standard professionally. Efforts to elevate the character 
and good name of this group of medical men by having their work 
recognized .everywhere as of the highest standard are being made. 
Each surgeon in industry must do his part. 

It is the solemn duty of every plant physician therefore to so im- 
prove the sanitary and other health conditions in his industry to the 
end that : the employees will have the greatest possible protection, the 
employers will receive the greatest possible benefits from these im- 
proved conditions, and the health work in the plant will be a model to 
others. Such an effort on the part of every company physician would 
be the greatest public health movement ever inaugurated in this coun- 
try, and the men responsible for such a movement would take their 
places in the foremost ranks of our profession. ' 

It is impossible to discuss all the specific problems of Industrial 
Hygiene which each plant physician will encounter in his industry, 
but the general conditions which must be considered in every case are 
herewith outlined. 

Industrial Hygiene Problems to be considered in every concern 
come under one of these four groups: the nature of the industry, the 
physical conditions of the plant and its surroundings, the physical 

141 



142 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

condition of the employees, and the health conditions of the 
community. 

I. Nature of the Industry and the various Processes and Occupa- 
tions carried on: 

A. What specific health hazards are present? 

1. A study of all occupations, the material handled, the 
processes and motions involved and every other considera- 
tion which could influence health is necessary. 

B. Hours of Work: 

1. Are they excessive, acting as a detriment to health of 
employees? 

2. Are rest periods, changes of occupations and other pro- 
cedures allowed so as to avoid fatigue? 

3. Is the night work especially hazardous to the employees? 

4. Are Sunday and holiday rests observed? 

5. Are washing periods, periods for going to toilet and other 
needed rest periods taken on company time? 

6. Are the employees content with these conditions? 

C. Nature of the Work: 

1. Is the work of such a nature as to cause constant over- 
exertion? 

2. Are labor saving devices utilized wherever possible? 

3. Are the employees instructed in the best methods of 
doing the work so as to avoid hazards? 

4. Are " bell-cow," "pacemakers" or driving methods used 
which may add to the exertion, nervous strain, or other 
fatigue conditions of the employees? 1 Is "piece-work," 
as carried on, detrimental? 

5. Are safety devices used? 

6. Are protection methods against occupational diseases, 
such as respirators, dust exhausts, hoods for removal* of 
dangerous gases and fumes and all other devices in place 
and used by the employees? 

7. Are the hazardous processes separated from the non- 
hazardous so that the employees in the latter are not 
unduly exposed? 

8. Have you made careful studies to discover other occupa- 
tional hazards, not usually classified in dangerous occu- 
pations, and reported the same? 

9. Have you carefully, instructed the management and em- 
ployees in all hazards represented by their work and the 

ir The "bell-cow" is the fastest worker in a department pointed to as an ex- 
ample for the other employees. 



INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE 143 

best means of prevention? Are new employees instructed 
in the same before going to work? 
D. Wages: 

1. The right of the plant physician to be concerned in wages 
is often questioned by the management. However when 
insufficient wage is a direct or indirect cause for lowered 
health conditions among the employees it is the duty of 
the plant physician to point out these facts to the manage- 
ment. Such data should be carefully prepared and be 
irrefutable. 

II. Physical Conditions of the Plant and its Surroundings: 
A. Nature and Construction of Buildings : 

1. Purpose building is used for? 

2. Type of construction? 

(a) Is it sufficiently well built to stand] the stress and 
strain placed upon it? 

3. Are the stairways strong, sufficiently wide, adequate and 
protected against falls? 

4. Are elevators adequate, inspected and sufficiently 
protected? 

5. Floors: 

(a) Type of construction and nature of supports? 

(&) If wooden do they absorb dangerous material which 

may be given off in form of dust thus adding to 

hazards? 

(c) Are they level and well drained? 

(d) Are they clean? Is cleaning process done with least 
dust hazard? 

.(e) Are they kept in good repair? 

6. Walls and Partitions: 

(a) What is nature of construction? 
(6) Are the rooms divided by too many partitions thus 
making dark corners and non- ventilated areas? 

(c) Are the walls, partitions and ceilings clean and of 
proper color to be least injurious on eyes? 

(d) Are ceilings too low? 

(e) Are the rooms unnecessarily damp? 

7. Fire Protection: 

(a) Are means of escape from buildings in case of fire 
adequate? 

(6) Is there a sprinkler system? 

(c) Are fire extinguishers provided and in sufficient num- 
bers? 

8. Is the building kept in a sanitary condition? 



144 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

B. Surroundings: 

1. Is the building located in a sanitary place? 

2. Are the grounds clean, well drained and kept free of 
refuse and other material detrimental to health? 

3. Does proximity of other buildings interfere with ven- 
tilation and sanitary conditions? 

4. Do dangerous fumes, dusts, etc. from nearby industries 
interfere with health conditions in your plant? 

C. Ventilation: 

1. Is there overcrowding of the rooms or is air space suf- 
ficient? 

2. If ventilation is natural is there sufficient window space, 
stairway space and elevator and air shafts to furnish 
adequate ventilation? 

(a) Are these spaces kept unobstructed? 

3. Is there any artificial ventilation system used? 

(a) Are the suction fans and conducting pipes adequate? 
(6) Are blower systems installed over dust producing 
processes adequate? 

(c) If air is washed and used again is process satis- 
factory? 

(d) Does use of natural system with artificial interfere in 
latter? If so, which is best system to use? 

(e) Is the foul air, dust, etc. discharged so as not to re- 
enter open windows again? 

D. Humidity: 

1. Any artificial means needed to keep humidity at proper 
ratio to temperature? 

2. Are "wet-bulb" thermometer tests made frequently? 

E. Temperature: 

1. What is nature of heating plant? 

2. Is temperature kept fairly constant? 

3. Is there exposure to excessive heat and cold? 

(a) What precautions are taken to protect employees in 
this case? 

4. Is an expert on ventilation, temperature and humidity 
employed or consulted to make sure that these are ade- 
quate? 

F. Fumes and Gases: 

1. If present from any of the processes are proper arrange- 
ments made for their removal? 

2. Are the employees in other parts of the building pro- 
tected from these? 



INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE 



145 



G. Dusts: 

1. Are proper facilities employed for removal of same? 

2. Are employees in dusty occupations protected by res- 
pirators? 

3. Are frequent changes from dusty occupations permitted 
the employees? 

4. Is dry sweeping permitted? 

5. Have you made a careful study of the hazards of the 
specific dusts in your industry? 

H. Illumination: 

1. Natural: 

(a) Is the number of windows and light shafts sufficient? 
(6) Are the windows kept clean? 

2. Artificial: 

(a) Direct or indirect lighting system? 

(6) Are the lights properly placed and of uniform type? 

(c) Are the bulbs and lamps kept clean and properly 
.shaded? 

(d) If spot lights are used do they interfere with 
adjacent employees, adding to their eye-strain? 

(e) Are dark areas^ where employees must pass through 
illuminated ? 

3. Do employees complain of eye-strain and other effects of 
inadequate lighting? 

I. Excessive Noises: 

1. Have efforts been made to reduce excessive noise? 

2. Are the excessively noisy occupations separated from the 
other processes? 

3. Have you studied the effect of these noisy occupations 
upon the employees engaged in the same, especially as to 
hearing? 

4. Are the employees engaged in the sedentary work re- 
moved from the strain of excessive noise? 

J. Protection against spitting and refuse: 

1. Are instructions against promiscuous spitting ample and 
enforced? 

2. Is sufficient number of cuspidors provided? 

3. Are these cleaned daily and is the cleaning thorough? 
(a) Are they handled by hand or are the porters protected 

from handling the same? 

(6) Is any effort toward sterilization made and is this 
successful? 

4. Are receptacles for refuse provided and are these removed 
and cleansed daily? 



10 



146 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 




INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE 



147 



5. Are provisions made for the obtaining and disposal of 

sanitary napkins by women employees? 
K. Washing Facilities: 

1. Is running water provided.? 

2. Is number of faucets sufficient for number of employees 
using them? 

3. Are stationary bowls or troughs with continuous flow 
used and which is safer in your industry? 

4. Are arrangements made for cleansing stationary bowls? 

5. Are shower baths provided when necessary? 

6. Are individual towels and soap furnished the employees 
or do they provide these for themselves? Has the use 
of roller towels been abandoned? 

7. Are the wash rooms clean, light and located near the 
toilets and locker rooms? 

8. Have the employees been instructed in the need of wash- 
ing before eating? 

L. Toilet Facilities: 

1. Are sufficient number of toilets provided? 
?. Are they clean, light, well ventilated and kept in good re- 
pair and in a sanitary condition at all times? 

3. Are they inspected daily? 

4. Have all modern improvements furnishing protection 
against disease been made? 

5. If privies are used are these plentiful, clean and protected 
from flies? Are they sufficiently removed from working 
places? 

6. Is sewage removal suitable and sanitary? 
M. Locker Facilities: 

1. Are the best type of lockers furnished? 

2. Is the locker room airy, light and kept clean? 

3. Is the smell from sweaty and dirty clothes obnoxious? 

4. Is any arrangement made for drying the clothes if soaked 
by rain or snow on the way to work? (This is especially 
helpful in the case of women employees.) 

5. Are the locker rooms periodically fumigated? 
N. Eating Facilities: 

1. Is a plant restaurant operated? 

2. Is food prepared under best sanitary arrangements? 

3. Are the chefs, waitresses and others handling the food 
periodically examined? 

4. Are frequent inspections made? 

5. If no restaurant at plant then is a proper place for eating 
of lunches provided? 



148 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

6. Is an effort made to get employees out of working rooms 
at lunch hour? 

0. Drinking Facilities: 

1. Has the source of water supply been ascertained and in- 
spected? 

2. Has the water been chemically and bacteriologically ex- 
amined and made safe? 

3. Is it protected from pollution? 

4. If a storage tank is used is it kept clean? 

5. Is the use of common drinking cup abandoned? 

6. Are bubbling fountains used and, if so, of a type to pre- 
vent spread of disease? 

. 7. Is number and location of drinking places adequate and 
properly distributed so that employees will be furnished 
all the water needed? 
P. Recreational Facilities: 

1. Does the industry provide athletic fields, gymnasium, 
recreation rooms, library and other facilities for the em- 
ployees to secure proper and necessary recreation? 

2. Do the employees take advantage of them? 

3. Does the medical staff take an active interest in them? 
Q. Rest Rooms: 

1. Are rest rooms with cots furnished for employees need- 
ing them because of fatigue or sickness developing while 
at work? (These are especially needed by women 
employees, but should be provided for men also.) 

2. Are these placed in the most restful surroundings? 

3. Is a proper person in attendance? 
R. Doctor's Office and First Aid Station: 

1. Is the number of employees and the nature of the work 
sufficient to warrant a central doctor's office at the plant? 

2. Are first aid stations needed in other parts of the plant? 

3. If no doctor's office is needed then is a first aid station 
provided? 

4. Is the equipment of the doctor's office and aid stations 
sufficient for the best work? 

5. Are the first aid men carefully instructed in their duties? 

6. Are they used for first aid only, or is an effort made to 
have them replace doctors a cheap form of service? 

III. Physical Conditions of the Employees: 
A. Physical Examinations: 

1. Are the applicants for work examined and assigned to jobs 

according to their physical qualifications? 



INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE 



149 



2. Are the employees examined periodically when engaged in 
occupations with disease hazards? 

3. Are all old employees examined at intervals? 

4. Is the working force. protected from the diseased fellow em- 
ployee when necessary? 

5. Is a careful study made of the relationship between occupa- 
tions and the employees physical and mental make-up? 

B. Medical Care: 

1. Is every preventive measure against both disease and injury 
installed and in use? 

2. Is complete medical care furnished the employees and is this 
the best system? 

3. Is proper supervision of the sick employee maintained to 
see that he receives the best treatment possible? 

4. Is the medical staff competent and sufficient in number? 

5. Are proper hospital facilities arranged for? 

6. Are competent industrial nurses employed? 

C. Provisions for Contagious Ca,ses : 

1. Is there any plan in force to discover contagious diseases 
early? 

2. Are contagious cases isolated while awaiting transportation 
home? 

3. Is the public properly protected against these contagious 
cases during their transportation home? 

4. Are the rooms where contagious cases develop fumigated? 

D. Recreation, Vacations, etc.: 

1. Is proper recreation prescribed for employees to counteract 
fatigue and other work conditions? 

2. Are vacations recommended to prevent threatened break- 
downs? 

3. Are occupations changed on recommendation of physician to 
prevent breakdowns? 

E. Have the employees been properly instructed in all matters 
tending to improve health conditions? 

F. Are the employees vaccinated, inoculated against typhoid 

fever or other diseases? 

G. Are efforts made to relieve the employees of worries over 
sickness, debt and other family conditions? 

H. Has every effort been made to secure proper co-operation be- 
tween the management, the employees and the medical staff to 
improve health conditions? 
IV. Health Conditions of the Community: 

A. Co-operation between municipal health department and the 
medical staff of the industry: 



150 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

1. Are contagious diseases properly reported? 

2. Does the health department notify the plant physician of 
contagious diseases in the families of employees? 

3. Do you co-operate with the health department to improve 
conditions about the plant and its surroundings? 

4. Do you interest yourself in the health conditions of the 
community? 

B. Home Conditions: 

1. Are efforts made to improve the housing conditions of the 

employees in your industry? 

* 2. Do the nurses visit the homes of employees and endeavor 
to improve conditions therein? 

C. Community Conditions: 

1. Does the management interest itself in community organiza- 
tions such as churches, schools, hospitals, clubs, Y. M. C. A., 
Y. W. C. A., amusements, etc.? 

3. Are proper hospital, dental and medical facilities furnished 
the families of employees? 

4. Are there restrictions on saloons in the neighborhood of the 
industry and other protective measures against the excessive 
use of alcohol? 

D. Is there co-operation between local industrial concerns to secure 
the best possible conditions in the community as regards 
the health, comfort and welfare of all wage-earners? 

No physician in charge of the human maintenance department of 
an industry has fulfilled his mission until he. has carefully considered 
the above problems in their relation to his work and taken steps to 
provide for their best solution. 

The succeeding chapters will set forth in more or less detail some 
of the specific problems met with in industrial hygiene. 



CHAPTER XVI 

INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE 

SPECIFIC PROBLEMS 

For the technical discussion of many of the specific problems of 
industrial hygiene the reader is referred to the various works on sani- 
tary engineering. In fact physicians will find that sanitary engineers 
are of the greatest value in establishing high standards of hygiene and 
there should be much closer co-operation between the two professions. 
In the army, sanitary engineers working with the medical officers have 
proven invaluable in developing military sanitation. Such engineers 
are already a definite part of the organization of many industries. 

Dr. Paul Fox, who has devoted considerable time to the plant 
sanitation in one of the large industries of Chicago, has achieved excel- 
lent results by practical methods of meeting many of these problems. 
The author is indebted to him for most of the data concerning ventila- 
tion and disinfection. Fox says, "the underlying principles and the 
question of right and wrong in sanitation are distinctly a part of the 
physician's work. ' It is therefore imperative that he have some knowl- 
edge of the essentials of sanitation." 

VENTILATION 

By ventilation we mean the supplying of air in sufficient quantities 
and of proper quality to make the room a healthful place in which to 
work. Perhaps no one factor reduces the efficiency of a workman so 
noticeably as does the lack of proper and adequate ventilation. "Bad 
air" causes many complaints among employees and often causes an 
entire department to lag behind in its production. It is therefore of 
great economic value to have the room so ventilated that the air will 
always be comfortable and invigorating, thus avoiding any mental 
or physical depression. In main we may say that a comfortable 
atmosphere is a healthful atmosphere, so that our problem, therefore, 
is largely one of making the room comfortable for the particular type 
of work which is being done. 

In order to have a clear understanding of what . constitutes "bad 
air, " it is necessary to have some knowledge of the normal function 
of air, and of the means by which these functions normally maintain 
body comfort. 

151 



152 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

It is commonly known that air has two principal functions; one, is 
the physical, and the other chemical. By the physical property of 
air we mean the absorption or regulation of the body heat, while the 
chemical property, is the organization or the supplying of oxygen to 
the blood. If the air in a room is not constantly changed it soon 
becomes unable to perform either of these functions. The oxygen 
gradually is exhausted and the air becomes of such temperature and 
humidity that it is impossible for it to absorb the body heat. It has 
been thoroughly demonstrated that the physical factor causes distress 
far in advance of the chemical in other words, a fault in the tempera- 
ture, humidity or motion of the air will cause distressing symptoms, 
long before the lack of oxygen or the excess of carbon dioxid becomes 
apparent. 

Complaints of "bad air" are therefore in the vast majority of 
causes due to the fact that the air in the room is of such quality that 
absorption of body heat is retarded. The former theory that "bad 
air" was air in which the oxygen was deficient or the carbon dioxid 
in excess, has long since been abandoned. 1 It is true that in certain 
industries poisonous gases are given off which cause toxic symptoms 
to the employees. However, this factor, although related to ventilation, 
properly belongs under the heading of occupational diseases and need 
not be discussed in this connection. 

The present day conception of the principles of ventilation are 
clearly set forth in the following outline by Dr. Thomas R. Crowder. 2 

1. All trustworthy evidence goes to show that the normal expired 
air contains no volatile poison and that it is not capable of harming the 
human organism when rebreathed under the ordinary conditions of 
ventilation. 

2. The increase of carbon dioxid and the decrease of oxygen have 
nothing to do with the ventilation problem under normal conditions, 
or with the subjective or objective effects of close air. Carbon di- 
oxid is a necessary constituent of the air of the lungs; it is not to be 
considered as a poison or the index of a poison. Its proportion in the 
air of a room is a convenient and fairly accurate index of the quantita- 
tive air supply. 

3. Air performs for the body a physical function (heat abstrac- 
tion) which is quite as important as its chemical function (oxygen- 
supplying). 

1 Report of the Committee on the Ventilation of Cars. Transaction of the 
Section on Preventive Medicine and Public Health., Am. Med. Association, 
Chicago, 1911, p. 177. Paul: Ztschr. f. Hyg., 1905, xlix, 405; Flugge: Ztschr. f. 
Hyg., 1905, xlix, 363. 

2 . Crowder: Study of Ventilation of Sleeping Cars. Archives of Internal 
Medicine, Jan., 1913, Vol. ii, p. 66. 



INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE 153 

ft 

4. The ordinary defects of ventilation lie with the physical func- 
tion of the air and not with the chemical. 

5. Temperature, humidity and air movement are the physical 
qualities of the air which are of importance in this relation. 

6. The success of ventilation depends on whether or not these 
physical qualities of the air are so regulated as to maintain its physical 
function of heat abstraction without embarrassment to the reflex mech- 
anism for the regulation of the body temperature. " The good effects of 
efficient ventilation and outdoor air depend on the coolness, the rela- 
tive humidity and the motion of the air and the ceaseless variation of 
these, qualities." 

It will be seen from what has been said above, that for all practical 
purposes in ventilation, we can entirely disregard the oxygen and carbon 
dioxid content, and look entirely to the physical condition of the air. 
There are three factors which have to do with the successful perfor- 
mance of the physical functions of the air namely, temperature, 
humidity and air motion. These three factors are interdependent and 
must all enter into any question of ventilation. Thus, when the humid- 
ity is low, or the air motion is great, a higher temperature is required 
than when with high humidity and slower motion. 

TEMPERATURE 

Temperature is by far the most important of these three factors 
and although intimately associated with humidity an.d air motion we 
can, for all practical purposes, say that if the temperature is properly 
regulated there will rarely be any complaint of poor ventilation. A 
stuffy room usually means a room in which the temperature is too high, 
thus interfering with the absorption of body heat. In rooms where the 
occupants are relatively inactive, the temperature should never be over 
70F. whereas if it is kept between 64 and 68F. it will be of the great- 
est comfort. Where physical labor of moderate degree is performed a 
temperature of 60 will be most acceptable. Therefore the character of 
the work or the amount of exercise being taken by the occupants of 
the room, must be taken into consideration when determining the 
proper degree of temperature to be maintained. 

HUMIDITY 

The relative amount of moisture in the air goes hand in hand with 
the temperature of the air. As nearly as can be estimated the rela- 
tive humidity of the air should be about 50 per cent, (this may be 
measured by the wet and dry bulb or Taylor Hygrodeik, or by the 
Sling Psychrometer). However, the exact per cent, of humidity is 
a much debated question, and depends directly upon the temperature 
of the air, and upon the air motion. At 80F. with moderate humid- 



154 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



ity or at 70 to 73.5F. with high humidity, practically all persons 
begin to show evidence of depression, headache, dizziness or a tendency 
to nausea. The ideal condition, therefore, would be a moderate tem- 
perature, not above 70F. and a moderate tumidity not above 50 
per cent. The advisability of adding moisture to the air during the 
winter months is a much disputed question, and one which has not as 
yet been put upon a practicable basis as far as large institutions are 
concerned. From the theoretical standpoint it stands to reason, that 
the evaporation of water in a room during the winter months should 
be of great value. The cold air, as well known, has a lower point 
of saturation than warm air. If, therefore, we take the cold winter 
air into the room and heat it we cause a change which is similar in effect 
to a reduction in the amount of moisture. * 

In this way we have an atmosphere which must be heated to an 
excessively high degree in order that it may be comfortable; thus 
producing air which is both overheated and overdry. 

It is claimed by many authorities that the lack of moisture in the 
air during the winter months is responsible for many of the cases of 
colds, rhinitis, sore throats, etc., which are so prevalent during these 
months. As a matter of fact it is the excessive heat which is used to 
keep the dry air comfortable which is the main factor in lowering the 
resistance. There is also a possible factor of too rapid absorption of 
moisture from the body especially the nose and throat, which may 
be a factor in lowering resistance. 

It is a well established fact that with a relatively high humidity a 
lower temperature will be found more comfortable. Thus it will be 
found that dry air heated to 72, 74, or even 80F. will be less comfort- 
able and will appear more chilly than a temperature of 66 or 68F. 
when there is a greater degree of moisture in the air of the room. In a 
room in which the air is overheated and overdry the least movement 
of the air gives the sensation of drafts. If the moisture is increased 
and the temperature lowered the air will give the impression of balmi- 
ness and its movements unless of considerable force, will cease to be 
noticed as drafts. ; : 

It may be said, therefore, that evaporation of water is advisable, 
when it is found that the relative humidity is low (below 50) or that 
it is necessary to maintain an excessively high temperature (above 70) 
to keep the room comfortable. 

The following chart illustrates the method of determining what is 
at fault when there is a complaint of poor ventilation. It will be 
seen, that the temperature was constantly too high (averaging over 

1 Hill and Flack : Influence of Ozone in Ventilation. Journal Royal Society 
of Arts, London, Feb. 9, 1912, p. 344. Roseman and Amoss: Organic Matter in 
the Expired Air. Journal Medical Research, 1911, xxv, 35. 



INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE 



155 



72F.). This together with a relatively high humidity made a very 
uncomfortable room. In this case the difficulty was entirely overcome 
by regulating the thermostat so that the temperature did not exceed 
68F. 



Date 

11/21/16 

Date 
11/22/16 

(Foggy day) 



Time 

9A.M. 
11 A.M. 

2P.M. 
5P.M. 

Time 

9A.M. 
11 A.M. 

2P.M. 
5P.M. 



Temp. 


Humidit 


72 


58 


73 


48 


70 


48 


73 

Temp. 

71 


55 

Humidit 

62 ] 


74 


59 


75 


48 


74 


59 



388 employees in room 



416 employees in room 



AIR MOTION 

From what has been said above, it is evident that air motion is 
intimately associated with temperature and humidity. If the tem- 
perature and humidity are high, as in the summer months, it is abso- 
lutely necessary to have air motion to maintain comfort. Whereas, 
with low temperature and low humidity even the slightest air currents 
cause marked effect upon metabolism and the loss of body heat. 
In rooms where the temperature and humidity are high, or where 
the temperature is high and the humidity relatively low it will be 
necessary to have air motion in order to have comfort. Just what 
rate of motion is necessary has not been clearly worked out and no 
standard can be established because effect of the air motion is absolutely 
dependent upon the temperature and humidity of the air. Professor 
Hill states that in his opinion slight but constant changes in the tem- 
perature and motion of the air lead to constant readjustments of the 
heat regulating mechanism of the body, and are very important in 
obtaining good results. It is his opinion that the impulsion of hot 
air into a room is. the "most objectionable of all systems of ventila- 
tion, and that cold air entering in small jets, heated by direct radiation, 
is ideal." 

Adequate ventilation has been recently defined by the Health 
Department of New York City as follows: "(1) The temperature of 
rooms during periods of occupancy should register preferably from 60 
to 70F. at all times, except when the outside temperature exceeds 
60. This does not apply to rooms used for special purposes, such as 
industrial places where high or low temperatures are essential and un- 
avoidable. (2) The relative humidity in occupied rooms should not 
exceed 70 per cent., except when the outside (wet) bulb temperature 



156 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

exceeds 59. (3) The carbon dioxid in occupied rooms of all classes 
should not at any time exceed 10 parts in 10,000 volumes of air in any 
part of the occupied spaces of the rooms. (4) The dust particles 
in the air of occupied rooms in all classes of buildings should not exceed 
1,000,000 per cubic foot. (5) The bacterial content should not exceed 
100 per cubic foot. (6) The air of occupied rooms should be free 
from objectionable odors." 

DISINFECTION 

Fox again says: "The industrial physician should have complete 
supervision over all methods of disinfection. He should be in a posi- 
tion to pass judgment on every process which is in use and to make 
tests which will prove the efficiency or the inefficiency of any given 
process. It is clearly evident then that we must familiarize ourselves 
with the accepted methods in order to avoid some of the errors which 
are made along this line. 

" Perhaps in no other branch of preventive medicine, has there been 
such a great fluctuation of opinion as in that of disinfection. The 
fact that there is such a large variety of disinfectants on the market is 
only evidence that we have been groping about for some powerful 
agent which will instantly kill pathogenic bacteria. M. J. Rosenau 1 
of the U. S. Hygienic Laboratories most forcibly expressed this senti- 
ment when he said: 

"The stress of modern activities demands disinfecting processes 
that are instantaneous in their action, all pervading in their effect, 
cheap, harmless and free from any unpleasant odor. Such disinfec- 
tants are unknown. It requires time, money, and the expenditure 
of well directed and intelligent energy to accomplish satisfactory 
disinfection. 

" Until recently it has been the tendency to rely too largly upon 
the chemical agents for the destruction of bacteria, and to ignore in a 
great measure the natural means we have at hand. Fresh air, sunshine, 
cleanliness, are by far the most important agents for destruction of bac- 
teria and when these agents are brought into proper use, much money 
will be saved which is now foolishly wasted upon chemical disinfectants. 
It is not meant by the foregoing statement that chemical disinfection is 
entirely without virtue, but that entirely too much faith has been put 
in it to the neglect of other more effective natural methods. Proper 
disinfection includes the use of sunlight, fresh air, soap and water, 
liquid and gaseous disinfectants and above all, it implies that these 
agents must be used in their proper strength and allowed to act for the 
proper length of time. 'Whatever the method of disinfection adopted 

1 M. J. Rosenau: Disinfectants. Bulletin of Hygienic Laboratory. 



INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE 157 

or wherever it may be done, slip-shod methods can result in nothing but 
failure. If disinfection is worth doing at all, it is worthy doing well. 
Careless disinfection is worse than none at all. The fact that a place 
has been disinfected gives the occupant a sense of safety. If the job 
has been done incompletely and inefficiently, this sense of security is 
unfounded and is a source of added danger.' 1 

" From the standpoint of the industrial physician it is important to 
know what methods are applicable in large institutions. It is the 
purpose of this chapter to give as briefly as possible the most accepted 
methods of disinfection and fumigation, and to give references which 
may help the reader in a further study of this subject. 

" For practical purposes disinfecting agents maybe divided into two 
classes, physical and chemical. The physical agents are sunlight, 
fresh air, cleanliness, heat, boiling and steam. 

" Sunlight and fresh air are of great value and wherever possible a 
conscientious effort should be made to allow as much fresh air and sun- 
light into the workrooms as possible. This may be especially empha- 
sized in the case of toilet rooms which are too often tucked into some 
dark corner, where fresh air and sunlight are impossible. Cleansing 
with the free use of soap and water and scrub brush plays an ex- 
tremely important role in the disinfection in large institutions. It 
may be truly said that much more cleaning will be accomplished if 
the porters are given soap and water and a scrub brush and told to 
clean than when they are given a strong smelling disinfecting solution 
which they are lead to believe will destroy disease germs by merely mop- 
ping over the surface of the given article. Heat is made use of largely by 
burning contaminated articles. Boiling may be used for such articles 
as will not stand this process and cannot be destroyed. The article 
to be disinfected must be covered by boiling water for at least twenty 
minutes. Steam under pressure is a very effective disinfectant and 
is frequently used in the disinfection of cuspidors and like articles. 

"Chemical disinfectants are divided into two classes (1) gaseous, 
<2) liquid. 

GASEOUS DISINFECTANTS 

" Of these formaldehyd and sulphur are of the greatest value. All 
crevices must be tightly sealed and kept so during the time of 
fumigation. 

"In using formaldehyd, it is important that a sufficient quantity 
be used, that the gas be evolved rapidly, that the temperature of the 
air be above 60F. if possible, and its humidity at least 60 per 
cent, of saturation. Unless the atmospheric conditions are naturally 

1 Disinfection published by Illinois State Board of Health. 



158 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

above these limitations, the defect should be overcome as much as 
possible by^artificial heat, by placing shallow vessels of boiling water 
in the room, by sprinkling formalin on the floor and using an increased 
amount of formaldehyd." 

Three methods of evolving formaldehyd gas are ordinarily 
available : 

1. The permanganate-formalin method. 

2. The formalin-lime and alum-sulphate method. 

3. The spraying or sheet method. 

1. Permanganate-formalin Method. Use one pint of formalin and 
six and a half to eight ounces of permanganate of potash crystals for 
every 1000 cubic feet. Use a large galvanized iron or tin pail or can 
of at least ten quarts capacity for each pint of formalin. 

Place the permanganate crystals in a thin even layer over the 
bottom. Place the pail containing the crystals in a pan or wash tub 
containing water, placing one or two bricks under the pail. 

Put the formalin in a pail, dipper, pitcher or some other wide- 
mouthed vessel so that it can be poured quickly. Pour it from this 
over the crystals and depart. Close and seal the door of exit. This 
must be done quickly as the evolution of the gas is very rapid. Allow 
the room to remain closed for at least eight hours. 

If the space to be fumigated exceeds 1000 cubic feet, a separate 
pail should be used for each pint of formalin or one which is propor- 
tionately taUer to prevent the mixture from sputtering over on the 
floor. 

Some slight danger from fire attends this process and it should 
be watched through a window during the few minutes necessary for 
its completion. 

The present high price of permanganate has caused this process 
to be abandoned. One of the two following methods should be used, 
until permanganate again approaches its former price. 

2. Formalin-lime and Aluminum Sulphate Method. Dissolve 
four (4) ounces of aluminum sulphate in one-half pint of hot water and 
allow the solution to stand for a few hours. Add one pint of formalin 
(35 to 40 per cent.) to this solution. 

Take three pounds of unslaked lime and just before using break 
into small pieces and place in a pail as described under the perman- 
ganate method. The lime should be of a quality that will slake easily 
in cold water. 

Pour the formalin-aluminum sulphate mixture over the lime as 
described in the permanganate method. 

The above quantities should be used for each 1000 cubic feet 
of air space. 

The time of exposure should be eight hours. 



INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE 159 

3. Spray or Sheet Method. This method is efficient under 
favorable conditions of heat and moisture, when applied to rooms con- 
taining not more than 2000 cubic feet. Use at least 48 square feet 
of sheet surface for each pint of formalin and use this amount for 
each 1000 cubic feet of air space. The ordinary sheet 81 inches 
side by 96 inches long has an area of 54 square feet. . This is a good 
size to use. 

The sheet should first be dampened, so that the formalin will 
not run off when sprinkled on. However, it should not be wet. 
Spread each sheet over cords or lines, preferably so that they will hang 
at an angle of 45 degrees. Pour the formalin in an ordinary 
sprinkling pot and pour it on the sheet through the sprinkler. Any 
other spraying device may be used if more convenient. The formalin 
does not damage the sheets. The temperature of the room must be 
at least 60F. or this method is not effective. Rooms disinfected by 
this method must remain closed at least eight hours. By using a 
number of sheets and several men to spray on the formaldehyd this 
method has been found very useful in fumigating departments after 
contagious cases have developed therein. 

Sulphur Dioxid. Sulphur dioxid in the dry state has practically 
no disinf ecting power but in the presence of moisture it is changed into 
sulphurous acid gas and to a slight extent into sulphuric acid. It is 
these acids which are really the disinfecting agents. In the presence 
of moisture and in sufficient concentration it is effective in destroying 
disease producing germs but will not destroy spores. It is highly 
fatal to animal life and is especially applicable for destroying rats, 
flies, fleas, mosquitoes, lice and other vermin which may carry disease. 
It is much used, therefore, for disinfecting holds of ships, stables, 
barns, warehouses, freight cars and structures of this character. 

In the presence of moisture it attacks most metals although this 
can be prevented by spreading vaselin over the exposed surfaces. It 
bleaches and injures cotton, linen and woolen fabrics, curtains, house- 
hold furnishings, etc. It softens paint and varnish especially if they 
have been applied recently. It injures soap, coffee, tea, flour, sugar, 
matches, rice, etc., when they are freely exposed to it. It will also 
discolor wall paper and bleaches all vegetable and many anilin colors. 
The above mentioned ill effects only occur in the presence of moisture. 
Moisture, while essential to its action as a disinfectant, is not necessary 
when it is applied for the purpose of killing rats, insects or vermin. 

Two methods x of using sulphur dioxid are commonly used: (1) the 
pot method and (2) the liquid sulphur dioxid method, the latter being 
about ten times more expensive. 

Owing to the fact that sulphur dioxid is rarely used for fumigating 
in industrial institutions, these methods will not be given in detail. 



160 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

LIQUID DISINFECTANTS 

There is a great variety of liquid disinfectants upon the market, 
some of which are useful but many of which are worthless. In the use 
of these chemical disinfectants there has been a great economic waste 
which in a large measure can be replaced by the use of soap and water. 
If, however, a chemical disinfectant is thought advisable only those 
should be used which have been thoroughly tested not only by labora- 
tory but also by practical methods. In 1912 Thomas B. McClintic, l 
Public Health and Marine Hospital Service of the United States, 
conducted a very elaborate series of tests on various disinfectant 
solutions, and it is interesting to note that he found a large per cent, of 
the widely advertised disinfectants to be practically worthless. It 
is his conclusion that liquor cresolis compositus, U. S. P., is an excel- 
lent disinfectant from the standpoint of both efficiency and econ- 
omy. It has a phenol coefficient of 3, and can be prepared on a 
large scale for about 50 cents per gallon Of course, the cost varies 
greatly with the scale upon- which it is prepared. By the barrel, 
linseed oil and cresol can be obtained at about 80 cents and 50 
cents per gallon, respectively. The commercial potassium hydroxid 
can be bought for a few cents per pound, or potash lye can be used in 
its stead. According to the United States Pharmacopeia liquor cresolis 
compositus (compound solution of cresol) is prepared as follows : 

Grams 

Cresol 500 

Linseed oil 350 

Potassium hydroxid 80 

Water, a sufficient quantity to make 1000 

Dissolve the potassium hydroxid in 50 grams of water in a tarred 
dish, add the linseed oil, and mix thoroughly. Then add the cresol, 
and stir until a clear solution is produced; and, finally, add water 
sufficient to make the finished product weigh 1000 grams. 

For the sake of completeness a few other liquid disinfectants may 
be mentioned. 

Formalin the 35 to 40 per cent, solution of formaldehyd gas is a 
very efficient disinfectant, its great drawback being the irritation 
caused by the liberated gas. For this reason, it is not adapted to 
washing floors or walls although smaller surfaces may be satisfactorily 
treated with it. Formalin is not corrosive. Fabrics and other arti- 
cles, except leathers, furs, and skins, are not usually injured by it. It 
is a good deodorant and is not apt to cause accidental poisoning. Its 

1 Thomas B. McClintic and John T. Anderson: 1. Methods of Standardizing 
Disinfectants. 2. The Determination of the Phenol Coefficient of some com- 
mercial disinfectants. Hygienic Laboratory Bulletin No. 82, 1912. 



INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE 161 

action is not retarded by albuminous matter and it is well adapted to 
the disinfection of urine, stools, sputum and other similar discharges. 
It will deodorize fecal matter almost instantly. A small quantity of 
pure or diluted formalin poured into water closet bowls, urinals/ etc. 
will destroy offensive odors. 

Carbolic Acid. This is a useful disinfectant when used in a strength 
of at least 3 to' 5 per cent, solution. In these strengths it is not des- 
tructive to fabrics, colors, metals, etc. It does not actively coagulate 
albumin and is therefore useful for the disinfection of bed linen, soiled 
clothes, stools, sputum, etc. 

For disinfecting sputum, stools, etc. a 5 per cent, solution is 
added to an equal volume of the excretion, the mass then thoroughly 
mixed and allowed to stand for an hour before final disposal. 

The Cresols. The vast majority of the disinfectants sold to the 
public are mixtures of cresols (carbolic acid like substances) and soap, 
together with other inert tar oils, etc. Unless these disinfectants 
have a guaranteed phenol coefficient they should not be considered. 

Bichlorid of Mercury. This is a very powerful disinfectant when 
applied in sufficient strength to non-metallic and non-albuminous 
matter. It is highly corrosive and therefore is limited in its usage. 
The solutions usually used are of a strength of one part in 1000, or 
one part in 500 of water. 

Lime. Lime in certain of its forms is one of the best and cheapest 
of disinfectants and should be much more commonly used, especially 
for the disinfection of stools. It may be used either as quicklime or 
as freshly slaked lime in the form of whitewash or milk of lime. 

1. Quicklime (calcium oxid), a very caustic substance, suitable to 
destroy any organic matter, is often used as a disinfectant. 

2. Whitewash is simply a thin mixture of slaked lime with a little 
glue added to make it stick to the surface to which it is applied. Its 
uses are well known. 

3. Milk of lime is prepared by mixing slaked lime with about four 
times its volume of water. Freshly slaked lime must be used and the 
mixture itself is of no value as a disinfectant after three or four days. 
It is very useful as a disinfectant for stools. 

4. Chlorinated lime (hypochlorite of lime, "chlorid of lime," 
"hypochlorid, " "bleaching powder"), when in a fresh condition, 
is a very effective disinfectant. For disinfecting stools and other 
organic matter, it may be used in a 5 per cent, solution or the 
dry powder may be added to the substance to be disinfected in an 
amount sufficient to make a 5 per cent, mixture. The mixture must 
be thorough. 

A mixture of six ounces of chlorinated lime to the gallon of water 
is largely used for scrubbing floors and other surfaces. 
11 



162 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

Of recent years chlorinated lime or " hypochlorite " has been ex- 
tensively used for disinfecting drinking water. 

PROPER DISINFECTION OF CUSPIDORS 

Proper disinfection of cuspidors has been one of the hardest prob- 
lems with which we have had to cope. This problem is handled in 
a great variety of ways, from the use of the old sawdust boxes to 
the excellent system devised by Wm. J. Manning of the U. S. Print- 
ing Department. Any method of disinfection which falls short of 
sterilization by boiling or steam, or the complete destruction of 
the cuspidor by burning is merely a method of cleaning and can, 
therefore, be done just as thoroughly with soap and water as by the 
use of some high priced disinfectant solution. However, after a thor- 
ough cleansing it is advisable to add some liquid disinfectant such as 
a 5 per cent, of liquor creosote compound solution, in order that the 
disinfectant may act immediately and for a long time on the contami- 
nated substance. The ideal method described by Wm. J. Manning 1 
consists in having metal cuspidors which can be picked up by a special 
handle and conveyed by a special truck to a sterilization room. The 
cuspidors are emptied and washed out with hot water, and then ex- 
posed to a jet of steam for five to ten minutes. 

This method has for its great advantage the absolute sterilization 
of the cuspidor and the fact that it is not necessary for the porters to 
touch the cuspidor at any time during the cleaning process. 

DRINKING FOUNTAINS 

It should be one of the duties of the industrial physician to make 
frequent bacteriologic examinations of the source of water supply as 
well as to investigate the drinking cups or drinking fountains. Of 
recent years we have been placing considerable faith in the safety of 
ordinary drinking fountains. The fact that drinking fountains may 
be a source of contamination was demonstrated by Pettibone, Borgorl, 
and Clark, 2 University of Wisconsin, who were able to definitely prove 
that the drinking fountains of that institution were the source of con- 
tamination in the spreading of a grippe epidemic. Fifty-eight per 
cent, of the cultures taken from their drinking fountains during the 
epidemic showed positive cultures. Similar work has been done by 
other investigators with like results. Their remedy for this source of 
infection was to have a drinking fountain from which the water was 
ejected from a pipe at an angle of 15 degrees, thus preventing lip 
contact as well as droplet infection. 

1 William J. Manning: United States Printing Department. 

2 Pettibone, Borgorl, Clark: Journal Bact., 1916, 1, 471. 



INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE 163 

WASHING FACILITIES 

Every employer should provide adequate sanitary washing 
facilities for his working force. Showers and bathing facilities should 
be included when the work involves contact with poisonous material. 

The installation of stationary wash bowls with the common soap 
and common towel adjuncts so commonly seen in many industries 
has been responsible for much disease contamination. It is not at all 
uncommon to see an employee spit or blow his nose in one of these 
wash basins and then turn to the common roller tojvel and wipe his 
nose on this. Consider the ease with which disease could spread to the 
next employee who uses these ! 

Many states have legislated against the common towel but have 
neglected precautions with regard to the common wash basin and soap. 

The following quotation from the Standards of the Federal Em- 
ployees Compensation Commission shows what should be done in 
every industry concerning washing facilities and lockers: 

"Provision of Individual Wash Basin or Trough. No wash basins 
or troughs for common use should be installed. Facilities for washing 
hands and face should be such that employees must necessarily wash 
from the flowing stream. 

NOTE. The wash basin with stopper is unsanitary. This requirement is 
designed to prevent the transmission of disease through the common use of a 
washing fixture made to contain water. 

"Spacing of Fixtures. Fixtures for washing the hands and face 
should be spaced not less than 24 inches center to center so that a man 
can wash without splashing his neighbor. 

"Number of Faucets. The number of faucets for washing hands 
and face should be not less than one to every 6 employees, based upon 
the maximum number employed on any one shift in the departments 
using the equipment. Regular showers (see Sec. 7) may be substituted 
in part for these faucets. 

" Temperature Control. (a) Both hot and cold water feeding into a 
common spigot should be provided for each fixture and provision made 
for temperature control. 

" (6) Wherever practicable, t automatic thermostatic control should 
be installed in the main supply pipe to positively limit the maximum 
temperature to 125F. 

" Clothes Hooks. An adequate number of clothes hooks shall be 
provided. 

" Soap Holders. Proper holders for soap shall be provided. 

"Showers. The number of showers should not be less than one to 
every twenty-five employees, based upon the maximum number of 
employed on any one shift in the departments using the equipment. 



164 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

" This proportion may be varied according to the character of the 
work. 

"-Showers to be Separated.- The showers should be separated by 
partitions in order to encourage men to use the shower who would not 
otherwise do so; and to prevent the user splashing his neighbor. 

"Finish of Walls. The enclosure should be finished in a light color 
to give a neat appearance and facilitate cleaning (see also Sec. 3). 

"Hot and Cold Water. (a) Showers should have hot and cold 
water and be equipped with a hot and cold regulating valve. 

NOTE. The system should be arranged to prevent scalding. This does not 
necessarily imply the need of a thermostatic control for each shower in a battery 
of showers. Where such automatic control is necessary it can ordinarily be 
attached to the heater. 

" (6) A regulating device should be so located that it can be 
operated without standing under the shower. 

"Location of Supply Pipes. Supply pipes to showers should be 
placed overhead to avoid the possibility of a person corning in con- 
tact with the hot pipes, and to facilitate the cleaning of the shower 
enclosures. 

LOCKERS AND DRESSING ROOMS. 

"Number. A locker or other method for caring for change of 
clothing, etc., should be provided for each employee. 

"Clothes lockers should be located in buildings or enclosures used 
in conjunction with washing facilities. 

" Material for Lockers. Lockers should be of steel and have proper 
ventilation. They should be at least 4 inches off the floor, to facili- 
tate cleaning without contaminating the locker. 

" Size of Lockers. The size of the lockers should be not less than 
12 inches by 15 inches floor space and of sufficient height to provide 
at least 5 feet clear height ; where not set in wall they shall have gabled 
tops to prevent accumulation of rubbish and other materials." 

TOILETS 

Again quoting from the Employees Compensation Commission, we 
find the following recommendations: 

" Number of Installations of Toilets. There should be a number 
of small installations rather than a few large ones. 

NOTE. This is recommended so that available space in shops and yards may be 
utilized. If closets are conveniently located there will be less time lost and 
employees will be relieved promptly, which promotes good physical condition. 

"Number of Toilets. The number of seats should be not less than 
one to every 15 persons, based upon the maximum number of em- 
ployees in any one shift in the department using the unit. 



INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE 



165 



"Specifications for Closets. (a) Closets should be of individual 
bowl type with individual water seal and should be made of porcelain 
or vitreous china, and not of enameled iron. 

NOTE. Flush range closets are considered unsanitary and similar to an open 
sewer and shall not be used. Enameled iron, of which the ranges are most com- 
monly made soon corrodes, leaving the equipment in a deplorable condition. 
Flushing feces under others using the range is unsanitary, disagreeable, and objec- 
tionable. Individual closets made of porcelain or vitreous china overcome the 
objectionable features and provide a sanitary, durable, neat appearing bowl, which 
can be thoroughly cleaned. 

" (6) The seat of each water closet should be made of wood or other 
non-heat absorbing material, coated with varnish or other finish 
which will make it impervious to water. Under no circumstances 
should the use of seats made of enameled ironware, procelain or other 
similar heat absorbing materials be allowed. 

NOTE. The use of non-heat absorbing material for seats eliminates any 
harmful effects which might come from men sitting on a cold surface. 

" (c) The size of the opening should be at least 7 inches in width 
and 11 inches in length. 

NOTE. This size is recommended to insure the maintenance of a clean seat. 

"Specifications for Privies. (a) The hole in the seat should be 
of the same size as specified in rule 52 (c). 

"(6) There should be a close-fitting cover for each hole. 

NOTE. Persons using the closet should be encouraged to keep the seat covered 
to prevent flies and other germ carrying insects coming in contact with the feces. 

"Provision of Washing Faucets in Toilet Rooms. Unless wash rooms 
are in close proximity to the closet, each closet room should be supplied 
with at least one washing faucet. 

NOTE. The installation of a washing faucet in a closet room, not in close 
proximity to a wash room, is to promote personal cleanliness by encouraging men 
to wash after using these facilities. 

"Number of Urinals. An adequate number of separate urinals 
should be placed throughout shops and yards located conveniently 
to the place where men work. An adequate number shall also be 
installed in each toilet room. The total number should be approxi- 
mately 1 to every 30 employees. 

NOTE. This will avoid loss of time required for a man to walk some distance 
and will tend to avoid violation of sanitary rules. At least one urinal should be 
installed in each toilet room to discourage the unsanitary practice of using closets 
as urinals. 

"Specifications for Urinals. (a) Troughs and basins shall not be 
used for urinals. The wall or vertical slab urinal with proper flushing 



166 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

should be used preferably to the porcelain stall. The floor in front of 
urinal must slope toward the drain." 

The U. S. Department of Labor, the Committee on Labor of the 
Council of National Defense, and the New York, Pennsylvania, 
Ohio and Massachusetts Departments of Industry and Labor, as well 
as a few of the other states, have studied the problems of illumination, 
ventilation, fatigue and similar problems of industrial hygiene. The 
physician in industry is advised to obtain the bulletins published by 
these various agencies in order to gain a broad knowledge concerning 
these technical problems. A complete set of the bulletins prepared 
by the Council of National Defense can be secured by writing to the 
Bureau of Statistics, of the U. S. Department of Labor. 

Recently the United States Public Health Service has made some 
thorough investigations of these subjects and their literature can like- 
wise be obtained by writing to them. 

The Committee on Hazardous Occupations for Women in Industry 
has prepared standards of sanitation which are especially applicable 
to this sex. These can also be secured from the Department of 
Labor. 

It is exceedingly encouraging that the National Government is 
taking this great interest in industrial hygiene. Our country has 
lagged behind other governments in meeting these problems. Such 
an interest now bespeaks the approach of a real national health policy. 




The World War has focused attention upon Production. People 
who have given little thought to this problem in the past are now con- 
sidering their responsibility toward producing the essentials, or to- 
ward conserving those things produced, necessary to the winning of 
the war. 

Our allies have been solving this problem for four years and as a 
result have made changes in their industrial life which are revolution- 
ary. Our own nation, for more than a year now, has been struggling 
with the same problem. No country has ever before been called upon 
to make such gigantic efforts and no country has ever succeeded in 
securing greater results in so short a time. But the cost has been ter- 
rific both financially and from the standpoint of wasted energy, and 
even of human life. 

Our government, with the master minds in control, and the whole- 
hearted, determined support of its people, has accomplished in a little 
more than a year what seemed the impossible. No criticisms, however 
valid, can overshadow the glory of this accomplishment. In the 
state of our unpreparedness it was only to be expected that excessive 
outlays of money, of energy and of human life would be necessary to 
meet this emergency. 

During the short period that we have been in the war the world 
has seen a great army mobilized and thrown into the struggle over a 
million and a half men already in Europe. It has seen a great emer- 
gency ship building program put into motion with an ever increasing 
number of ships being launched to carry this army and their needed 
supplies across the seas. Ordnance, munitions, quartermaster supplies, 
hospital supplies, locomotives, trucks, wagons, automobiles, gas 
offensive and gas defensive supplies, food and the other daily necessi- 
ties of life for both men and animals, have been produced and trans- 
ported in quantities heretofore unheard of. Even aeroplanes finally 
are being produced in great numbers. And in France the world has 
seen unbelievable feats of engineering performed. Great docks, for 
the receiving of these supplies, will remain after the war as part pay- 
ment of our debt to heroic France and as a monument to our efforts. 
Great railway systems have been built meeting the problems of war 

167 



168 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

transportation now, and standing as a promise of the part which we 
must play in the rehabilitation of that country after the war. 

No true American lives whose heart does not swell with pride when 
he contemplates the accomplishments of his country during this last 
year. And with true American spirit we have paid the price, and will 
continue to pay it without a murmur even though it is a hundred 
times as great. 

All this the world has seen. But only a few see or realize the great 
efforts that are simultaneously being made by our government to 
conserve its man power, to utilize its human energy in the most eco- 
nomic manner and to reduce the cost of this mammoth undertaking 
to a minimum. 

At the beginning of the war "business as usual" was felt to be a 
prime essential. It was realized that speeding-up of existing machin- 
ery and the creation of much new machinery would be necessary, 
but the economic and social existence of our country would be dis- 
turbed the least if this principle of "business as usual" could be 
maintained. 

Gradually these business methods of the country are being revo- 
lutionized. Non-essential business is being curtailed and the em- 
ployees are being diverted to essential production. The employers 
of the country are readjusting wages, and hours of labor, and are 
beginning to recognize that improved working conditions are necessary 
for maximum production. Many corrections have already been made. 
The labor unions are making concessions permitting of open shop 
methods, employment of women and arbitration policies which will 
do away with strikes. You can call it " business as usual" if you wish, 
but already we have a vision of those changes in industry which before 
the war were called the " dreams of idealists. " 

Changes are likewise taking place in the government. The exist- 
ing governmental agencies were depended upon to do most of the war 
work, but to assist them numerous advisory committees were formed. 
That these committees, advisory in character but with no executive 
powers, were useful there is no gainsaying. But their greatest useful- 
ness was the part which they have played in the transition of our peace 
time government. Slowly but surely we have seen these advisory 
committees replaced by executive boards and in turn these boards 
replaced by individuals who have the power to perfect, and are held 
responsible, for some definite part of this great war program. 

Gradually the federal government has taken over more and more of 
the time honored rights of the states. And gradually the work of 
departments and bureaus has been centralized and unified. This has 
resulted in increased production with decreased cost chiefly by doing 
away with duplication of effort in the different departments. The 



INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE AND PRODUCTION 169 

executive powers given by the Overman bill to our President have 
even greater functions than have as yet been revealed. The lubri- 
cation represented by doing away with interdepartmental jealousies, 
and the labor saving devices, represented by doing away with duplica- 
tion of effort, have already given the country a smoother running ma- 
chine with increased production. 

No thinking man of to-day will deny that these changes in our social 
and economic existence, and these changes in the government itself, 
taking place because of war conditions, are here to stay. 

No truer words were ever spoken than those of President Wilson 
when he said that this was a " War to make the world safe for Democ- 
racy." The victory over militarism and the autocracy of the Central 
Powers will not equal the victory over the tyranny and autocratic 
practices that have marked class distinction in all countries. 

In the beginning this was a war against the efforts of Germany for 
the accession of more territory. Then it became a war for democracy. 
And now it is a war for social democracy. The need of maximum 
production to wage this war is the weapon which is gaining this victory 
for a true democracy. 

Our Allies found that under the old relationships existing between 
employer and laborer maximum production could not be maintained. 
Changes were necessary and changes were made. These changes 
represent the getting together of labor and industry and the mutual 
adjustment of conditions. Labor could not force its contentions on 
industry. Neither could industry force labor to accept its views. The 
government could not arbitrarily decide for one or the other. But 
by conferences, by sacrificing radical principles on both sides, and by 
concessions on the part of the governments, whereby they assumed 
a share of certain losses to both, the new era of true democracy has 
been inaugurated. 

In England shorter hours of labor have been established and 
careful studies reveal the fact that this has increased production. 
Wages have been increased, working conditions have been improved, 
protection against disease and accident hazards has been established 
and thousands of homes for employees have been built where better 
living conditions can be maintained all of these have played a decided 
part in increasing production. The labor class of England has asked 
"If these things are essential for increasing production for war purposes, 
then why are they not quite as essential for increasing production in 
peace times?" And invariably the answer from all classes has been 
that these things are essential and must carry on after the war. 

In our own land of freedom the "exploitation of labor" has been 
known, even the exploitation of woman and child labor. Before the 
war conditions were changing but it was a very slow process. With 



170 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



the war this demand for production is bound to force these changes 
within the year. 

The sacrifice of blood which we are making will bring its blessings 
in the form of these by-products of war by-products which will mean 
a greater victory than merely overwhelming our enemy. Let us hope 
that if an early peace should come the country will nevertheless learn 
these lessons. 

During the decade before the war our great industries in the United 
States made their greatest strides in efficiency. Better relationship 




FIG. 35. Model munition factory in England. Here women of all classes, under 
sanitary surroundings, are helping win this war. 

between labor and the employer had been established. Wages and 
hours of work were better and more nearly uniform. The problems of 
labor turn-over, of hiring and firing and of unemployment had received 
more careful and more intelligent consideration. Better social con- 
ditions for the worker and his family were being recognized as an 
efficiency measure. The problem of the effect of alcohol on our 
industrial life was being met. Protection from occupational hazards 
and from accidents had been carefully studied and methods standard- 
ized. Experts in Industrial Engineering were being educated and 
turned out in ever increasing numbers. 

Above all the principles of industrial hygiene had been evolved and 
were already installed in many concerns. Physicians, highly trained 



INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE AND PRODUCTION 171 

and reputable, were more and more entering the field of industrial 
medicine and surgery. 

Thus, without knowing it the nation was undergoing a state of 
preparedness. And during these days when maximum production is 
the cry of the hour the influence of all this work is being felt. The 
principles of industrial hygiene are now recognized as the very founda- 
tion of maximum production. 

During the first year of the war the speeding-up, the forming of 
new industries, and the great demand on the old, threw labor and 
industrial conditions into a frightful state. The housing conditions 
for employees in many centers were soon overtaxed and became 
intolerable. Beds were used day and night in three shifts. Sanitary 
conditions deteriorated rapidly due to the increased demands on water- 
supplies, sewage systems, etc. Shops were overcrowded. The food 
supply was inadequate and profiteering became rampant. Men from 
nearby towns flocked to industrial centers to work and lost time and 
forfeited wages because of transportation conditions. 

The percentage of labor turn-over increased to over 1000 per cent, 
in some cases. Employees, discontented with the above conditions 
and influenced by the promise of higher wages from other concerns, 
would leave their jobs without notice. Two concerns, equally neces- 
sary to war production, would influence employees to leave one or the 
other. 

These conditions in the industries and homes added greatly to 
the sick-rate. The floating labor was a means of spreading diseases. 
"Green hands" added to the accident rate to a very marked degree. 
The lack of any effort to select men for proper work according to physi- 
cal qualifications added to the inefficiency of the working forces. The 
lack of precautions against occupational disease in our munition fac- 
tories added to the toll of war victims. The wonder is that production 
attained its present proportions. 

But during this period many different agencies of the government 
were at work to correct these conditions. The National Defense 
Council through its sections on Labor and on Medicine early drew up 
standards on many important industrial hygiene methods and cir- 
culated these freely. As it was only an advisory body however, it 
could not enforce these methods. The Women's Committee of the 
National Defense Council, "Department of Women in Industry," 
the Women's Division of the Department of Labor, the Women's 
Division of the Ordnance Department, and the various women's divi- 
sions of the State Defense Councils have all contributed studies and 
recommendations tending to improve conditions for women in industry. 
All such improvements will naturally better working conditions for 
both men and women. The great drawback to all these committees 



172 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

was that they had advisory functions only. During the last few 
months three important groups have been designated by the Federal 
government to correct these industrial conditions. Their work is 
bound to speed up production. All of these have a direct bearing 
on industrial hygiene. In fact the surgeon familiar with industrial 
practices is represented in each group. 

Without discussing the other functions of these bodies we will 
consider here only those functions which have a direct bearing oh in- 
dustrial hygiene and its relation to production. 

Early in the present year the Department of Labor underwent a 
reorganization. It formed its bureau of War Labor Administration 
and took specialists from all over the country and placed them as 
Chiefs of Divisions. These men and women are responsible for the 
administration and results of their divisions. Already the labor sup- 
ply is being controlled and dealt out and shifted according to priority 
importance. Large groups of field workers have been formed to study 
industrial and labor conditions throughout the country. The work of 
other sections and committees is being co-ordinated and there is less 
duplication of effort. It is to be hoped that all committees working 
on labor problems will be forced to do so under a general plan outlined 
by this Labor Administration. The executive powers of this Labor 
Administration are sufficient to enforce correction of many of the 
conditions which have heretofore slowed up production. Unless this 
is done their scope of usefulness will not exceed that of the various 
advisory committees. 

The Women's Division of the Department of Labor has recently 
been placed under the direction of Miss Mary Van Kleeck. A com- 
mittee representing the Office of the Surgeon General of the Army, the 
Ordnance Department, the Navy, the United States Public Health 
Service, the National Research Bureau, the War Industries Board, 
the Bureau of Standards and other divisions of the Department of 
Labor was formed in June (1918) to act as a steering committee for the 
Women's Division. Through their work several investigations of 
specific industries where women are employed have been made and 
reports submitted showing the hazards of this work and what correct- 
ive measures are necessary. In most places the employers have 
shown a very marked co-operative spirit and have taken steps to im- 
prove conditions on the recommendations of the committee. 

The real value of this committee's work and of all other such 
agencies will depend upon the support given to them by the govern- 
ment. Will the failure to meet their recommendations in a given 
industry, where conditions are detrimental to the health of both men 
and women employees, be sufficient grounds for the commandeering 
of that industry? If so will the government act? 



INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE AND PRODUCTION 173 

The commandeering law states that "wherever production is ob- 
structed" such a step can be taken. The hygienic conditions of a 
plant are often such that production is obstructed, first by the undue 
amount of sickness resulting, and second because of the excessive labor 
turn-over, the result of poor working conditions. 

If commandeering proceedings should be adopted on these grounds 
it will be the first time in the history of the country that the Federal 
government has interfered with private corporations because of lack 
of protection of the health of employees. Such a precedent would have 
most beneficial results on the public health of the nation. 

The second group which is working along the lines of industrial 
hygiene is the Federal Housing Commission. By improving the hous- 
ing conditions of employees one of the most important steps for con- 
serving labor will have been taken. Better housing conditions means 
better and more sanitary living conditions, a healthier, more contented 
working force, less labor turn-over and greater production. An op- 
portunity is given to this commission to re-establish homes in our 
industrial centers, homes which were rapidly being displaced by 
tenements and other cheap forms of abode. 

On July 1st of this year the President issued an executive order, 
under the powers given him to co-ordinate the work of various depart- 
ments, which will have the most far reaching effects of any health 
measure ever enacted in this country providing those in charge of the 
work will see their opportunity and take full advantage of it. This 
order states that "all sanitary or public health activities carried on 
by any executive bureau, agency, or office, especially created for or 
concerned in the prosecution of the existing war, shall be exercised 
under the supervision and control of the Secretary of the Treasury. " 
The only exception to this is the work of the medical departments of 
the Army and Navy. The order designates the U. S. Public Health 
Service of the Treasury Department as the agency which should t carry 
on this work. 

It is recognized by the Public Health Service, and by all familiar 
with its activities, that the most important work it is doing is that 
of its Industrial Hygiene Section. This order therefore should enable 
the expansion of its Industrial Hygiene work to include every industry 
in the country which is concerned either directly or indirectly in the 
production of material necessary to the continuance of the war. 

When we realize that the Department of Labor has had at least two 
groups, with physicians employed, working in this field of industrial 
hygiene, and that the Bureau of Mines has had a medical department 
working in the same field and that at least five other medical divisions 
of the various departments and commissions have been working on 
public health matters, then we can better understand the importance of 



174 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

this executive order. The duplication of function in this field of public 
health has been a decided factor in retarding results. It is the plan 
of the Surgeon General of the Public Health Service not to destroy 
or duplicate the good work which has been done by these various agen- 
cies, but to co-ordinate their work and henceforth co-operate under one 
general plan of procedure. 

Already the Public Health Service has thoroughly co-operated in 
the work of the Women's Division of the Department of Labor by 
making the field studies in Industrial Hygiene in certain chemical 
industries and turning the results over to this Division. 

Since experiences in this country and abroad have demonstrated 
so clearly that the principles of Industrial Hygiene, where carried out, 
always result in increased production, it is evident that the recom- 
mendations of the Public Health Service should receive respectful 
attention by employers at this time. If faulty conditions are left 
uncorrected, and as a result lowered health conditions among employ- 
ees slow up production, it would seem logical for the federal govern- 
ment to take over and operate these concerns under the most -up-to- 
date methods. 

Last October a committee was formed in the Medical Section of 
the Council of National Defense consisting of members from the 
American Association of Industrial Physicians and Surgeons and from 
the American Railway Surgeons Association, known as the Committee 
on Industrial Medicine and Surgery. This committee was reorganized 
in March of this year to include in its membership representatives of 
the United States Public Health Service, the Department of Agricul- 
ture, the Department of the Interior, the Department of Commerce, 
the Department of Labor, organized industry, organized labor, or- 
ganized medicine, organized Industrial medicine and the Medical 
Department of the Army. 

While its functions were only advisory yet there is no question 
but that the studies and report of this Committee on Industrial 
Medicine and Surgery have been strongly instrumental in bringing 
about the present status of industrial hygiene in its relation to war 
production. 

Just what the relationship is between industrial hygiene and 
production can best be explained by quoting from the report of this 
committee prepared by its director, Dr. Otto Geier : 

"The Need of the Hour. More production of war materials by 
the second line of defense. 

"Slowing down of industry caused 1. By excessive labor turn- 
over. Men drifting from shop to shop, therefore untrained and with 
low output more subject also to accident on successive new jobs. 

"2. By physical breakdown : (a) Due to unsanitary conditions of 



INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE AND PRODUCTION 1,75 

shop and homes (lack of medical supervision). (6) Due to lack 
of early recognition and prompt treatment of ailments leading to 
invalidism. 

"3. By absence from work: (a) Due to preventable accidents. 
(6) Due to failure to secure prompt and efficient surgical attention 
when injured. 

: '4. By lack of output because of those killed or permanently dis- 
abled (number said to be more annually than thirty times the number 
of soldiers expected to be permanently disabled, and for which mil- 
lions have been provided in the way of reconstruction facilities). 

"Production can be Definitely Speeded up by Protection of 
the Human Machinery from Preventable and Unnecessary Wear and 
Tear, Disease and Injury. The non-effectives in the average indus- 
try are known to be at least 3 per cent, or 30 in each 1000 on 
account of sickness (study of 750,000 workers, U.S.P.H.S.), may go 
as high in others as 6 per cent, of non-effectives. Add to this factor 
an additional per cent, for absence, falsely claimed to be due to sickness ; 
then add one-half of 1 per cent, for absence on account of lost time due 
to accidents and we have a total absence of 6 per cent, to which med- 
ical men can direct their efforts. 

"The principles of industrial medicine and surgery intelligently 
applied can reduce this 6 per cent, loss to 3 per cent., making a gain of 
30 workers on the job in every 1000. 

l< Additional Saving. A cleaner plant and healthier workmen will 
result in a greater output per man. 

''Other By-products. Better relations between employer and em- 
ployee more sympathetic understanding comforts and conven- 
iences, cafeterias, etc., supplied; all producing a better esprit de corps 
resulting in less labor turn-over. 

11 The protection of the health of the community women and chil- 
dren quite as essential as the health of the workers. Fully 30 per 
cent, of the effective medical and surgical capacity of the profession 
has been drawn into the Army. Twenty-four per cent, of the visit- 
ing hospital forces has been called into the service. This indicates 
that the civil population does not possess adequate medical service. 
Under strain of war conditions, disease and injury are increased. 
To meet the discrepancy, a method must be found by which every 
physician not in the Army may give his maximum result with his 
minimum effort, so that the community may be adequately protected 
against disease. 

"The placing of the physician in industry accomplishes that need. 
By applying his preventive measures to the large industrial unit on 
an intensive scale, the industrial physician assists the community in 



176 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

its health efforts, lessens disease, and therefore lessens the strain on 
the physicians in private practice. 

"Our problem therefore is: 1. To meet the military need for greatly 
increased production. 

"2. To offset the drain on the man power in industry brought 
about by raising the military force. 

'3. To assure adequate medical sevrice for the civil population. 

"To meet the problem, the government must: 1. Provide against un- 
necessary human waste in industry and society during the war. 

'2. Increase output by maintaining workers in good health. 

"3. Avoid preventable deaths and disabilities from accident and 
disease. 

"4.- Restore to full producing power in the shortest possible time the 
sick and injured workers. 

"5. Provide healthful places in which to work. 

"6. Provide healthful homes and communities in which to live." 

It is still too early to report great progress in this country in these 
matters of improved health conditions for working men and women. 
But the start which has been made augurs great things for the future. 

The Ship-building Board was one of the first large governmental 
war machines to recognize the need of introducing industrial hygiene, 
and its allies, prevention of accidents and adequate medical and surg- 
ical care, into all its yards as a means of maintaining and increasing 
production. The health conditions of many of the communities about 
these yards have been permanently improved by the drastic action of 
this Board. For example large areas in New Jersey have been drained 
and other steps taken to rid them of mosquitoes and the resulting 
malaria. In one town a large dump heap was so infested with rats 
as to be a constant menace to health. A successful rat extermi- 
nation campaign was carried out. These examples point out the lesson 
that industrial hygiene to be successful must not stop within the con- 
fines of the industry itself. Thus far this work has been conducted 
under the direction of a medical officer from the Medical Department 
of the Army. 

In all of the arsenals, ordnance depots and most of the government 
owned munition plants a comprehensive system of industrial medicine 
and surgery has been or is being installed. 

The division of Sanitation and Safety, an organization of the Indus- 
trial Service Section of the Ordnance Department has been instru- 
mental in improving the conditions. in many of the industries engaged 
in the manufacture of ordnance supplies. Their work has just started 
and promises to yield excellent results. 

The United States Employees Compensation Commission has 
recently placed safety engineers in many government industries where 



INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE AND PRODUCTION 



177 



civilians are employed and by co-operating with the United States 
Public Health Service and with the Medical Department of the Army 
has been able to start systems of industrial hygiene in several such 
industries. By arrangements recently made between this commission 
and the Surgeon General injured civilian employees from some of 
these government industries have been admitted to the military 
hospital for the blind at Baltimore to receive the same re-educational 
advantages which have been prepared for the blinded soldiers. If 
the government will extend this opportunity for reconstruction, and 
re-education when necessary, to the civilian employee the indus- 
trial soldier which it is giving to the military disabled soldier, then 
it will be more nearly meeting its full obligation to its citizens. 

The Railroad Administration has its safety department and is co- 
operating with the medical departments of railroads to improve health 
conditions for railway employees. 

We have a few examples of an active interest on the part of state 
governments in industrial health conditions, but these are the first 
examples of an active, constructive federal program for introducing 
industrial hygiene into specific industries. 

The importance of this step, and the ever increasing results which 
it will have may not be fully appreciated by many. But to those 
surgeons in industry who have devoted many years of their lives to 
establishing these principles of industrial hygiene, and to their lay 
allies, who have so thoroughly supported and abetted their efforts, 
the dawji of a new day has come; never again will we return to those 
dark ages when the human machine was worked to the limit without 
supervision and then prematurely scrapped because of a breakdown, 
often the direct result of the occupation. 

By the time this book is published the contents of this chapter will 
be ancient history considering the rapidity with which advances are 
being made. 

However, it is history which shows the signs of the time pointing 
ever to one inevitable solution of these problems of Industrial Hygiene 
and Public Health, namely, a centralized, federal Department of 
Health with power to act. 

12 



CHAPTER XVIII 
EPIDEMIOLOGY IN INDUSTRY 

ACUTE RESPIRATORY INFECTIONS, ACUTE CONTAGIOUS DISEASES, 
TYPHOID FEVER, ETC. 

The prevention of the spread of epidemic diseases among employees 
is one of the most important duties of the medical staff. This function 
has not been sufficiently recognized in the past; or, in speaking of 
epidemics, we have thought only of the acute exanthemata and limited 
our efforts to their prevention. 

Wide experience in industrial practice has convinced several physi- 
cians that many diseases, not heretofore recognized as such, were 
infectious. Even those conditions, usually considered as symptoms, 
and which attack one for a few hours or a day and are so commonplace 
as not to drive the patient to a doctor, are seen by the physician hi 
industry. Epidemics gf these ordinary conditions frequently occur 
and cause great loss in the efficiency of the working force even though 
no actual loss of time from work results. The following examples 
will better illustrate these minor epidemics. 

Colds. These are so ordinary that both patients and physicians 
have adopted an attitude of indifference and tolerance toward them; 
yet the damage from "colds" to the human system and the economic 
loss to industry cannot be estimated. In the winter months this con- 
dition is so widespread that its epidemic nature might be doubted, 
the real cause being considered due to weather conditions and exposure 
to the same. 

However, the author has witnessed many epidemics of "colds" 
in the summer months. For example, in the month of July, with the 
most ideal working conditions, six or eight employees from the same 
department would report to the doctor's office with "colds." The 
next day fifteen or twenty other employees from this department 
would report with the same condition. This mild epidemic might be 
limited to this department but usually a great number of people from 
other portions of the plant would be attacked by the same condition. 

The signs and symptoms of these "colds" take various forms but 
the epidemics are usually of the same type. At one time all the 
employees reporting will have a profuse, thin nasal discharge, while 
again the coryza will be very slight and most of the cases will complain 
of hoarseness. Another time the "colds" will be accompanied with 

178 



EPIDEMIOLOGY IN INDUSTRY 179 

signs of sinus infection and headaches and the majority of the cases 
will show this involvement. I have seen ten girl employees from the 
same department report during the course of a day with slight "colds" 
and herpes. 

These experiences have occurred -so frequently that one cannot 
doubt the contagiousness of "colds." Educational campaigns among 
the employees are the best means of combating these epidemics. 
Warnings against the spread of the condition; instructions as to eating, 
rest, care of bowels, bathing, dress and other habits; protection of 
fellow employees by care in handling the handkerchief, washing of the 
hands, covering the mouth in sneezing, never using the common towel 
or cup, keeping things that might be handled by others out of the 
mouth, and hundreds of other like suggestions, can be made. When 
"colds" show signs of becoming epidemic it is much more economical 
to the concern to send these employees home. The active treatment 
of all cases of "colds" by the medical staff while they remain at work 
is very efficacious in controlling this condition. Separate the em- 
ployee as far as possible from his fellow employees. Have him report 
to the doctor's office three times a day and gently swab the nasal 
passages with 10 per cent, argyrol, spray with a weak solution of 
dichloramine-T or inhale the fumes from hot tincture of benzoin . These 
methods adopted early will abort many cases. Urotropin in five grain 
doses, often repeated, is of benefit. But the surest methods are isola- 
tion and education. 

A wonderful opportunity is given these physicians in industry to 
study this condition and evolve the best form of treatment and the 
best means of preventing "colds." We have neglected this disease 
because familiarity with it has bred contempt. 

Lumbago. Lumbago occurs in endemic forms and frequently in 
such proportions as to indicate an epidemic. It is not limited to de- 
partments as in the case of "colds" but often during the course of a 
week fifty or more cases of this condition will report. I have seen ten 
men in the examining room at the same time all complaining of pain 
in the back. Men are more susceptible to this than women. 

Torticollis or "stiff neck" has also appeared at the same time and 
in numbers suggesting a mild epidemic. One morning in early fall the 
author arose with a stiff neck. While at breakfast his sister, who had 
been with him the night before, phoned and asked what she could do for 
a stiff neck. At the plant that morning fourteen employees reported 
complaining of stiff necks, four were from the same department. At 
his office in the same afternoon one patient called on account of this 
condition. On the same day and for several days following lumbago 
was very prevalent among the employees. 

The real origin of these conditions is undoubtedly from some focus 



180 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

of infection within the patient's own body. In the case of both stiff 
neck and lumbago, diseased teeth, hypertrophied tonsils, or a chronic 
coryza can usually be found. Nevertheless when there is a sudden 
flare-up of these conditions in a number of people at the same time one 
is forced to speculate on the possibility of a spread of the trouble from 
one individual to another, or on what changes in the weather or the 
environment cause a lowered resistance among individuals with an 
increased virulence in the infecting organism. 

These minor conditions, so long considered as a necessary annoy- 
ance in our everyday life, need careful study and analysis. The reduc- 
tion in their occurrence will be one of the greatest economies in the 
industrial world. 

TONSILLITIS INFLUENZA PNEUMONIA. 

The acute respiratory infections have become more and more preva- 
lent during the last five years. Employees have always lost consider- 
able time, especially during the winter months, from these causes, but 
recently they have occurred in such numbers as to be classed as epi- 
demics. Time and again the absenteeism has reached such a high 
rate as to materially interfere in production and output. The efforts 
to prevent these epidemics have caused the physician in industry more 
worry than almost any other condition. 

These acute respiratory conditions have occurred as epidemics of 
tonsillitis, usually the severe form of streptococcic sore throat; influ- 
enza or "grippe;" pneumonia, especially streptococcic pneumonia, 
and bronchopneumonia; with their complications. 

Previous to 1912 the employees in the concern the author was con- 
nected with were not affected to any unusual degree by these diseases. 
But in 1912 the working force was swept with an epidemic of severe 
colds and tonsillitis. Again in the winter of 1913 an epidemic of tonsil- 
litis occurred. These cases were usually of a severe streptococcic form 
and accompanied by many complications. These epidemics were 
widespread but Chicago seemed especially affected. Capps and Miller 
and Preble of that city all described the condition as a hemolytic 
streptococcus infection. Milk was thought by them to be the agency 
through which it was carried. 

In 1914 the condition was not so serious but beginning in the early 
winter of 1915 and continuing until March, 1916, the entire country 
was included in an epidemic of so-called "grippe" which was most fre- 
quently complicated by pneumonia. In 1916 this disease was prevalent 
but not to any such extent as the previous year. 

We all know the fearful toll which these acute respiratory diseases 
have claimed in our Army during the last year and a half. At their 
outset they have taken various forms. In some camps measles and 



EPIDEMIOLOGY IN INDUSTRY 181 

mumps were the starting point of the epidemic, followed by influenza, 
pneumonia, pleurisy with effusion and empyema. Practically all of 
the reports show the hemolytic streptococcus with or without pneumo- 
cocci, Types I, II, III and IV, as the commonest organism in these 
epidemics among the soldiers. In some camps the epidemic began as 
influenza; in others epidemics of primary streptococcic pneumonia 
were reported, while in still others the epidemic was secondary to the 
acute exanthemata. 

In industry the same conditions, usually classed as influenza, have 
been claiming their toll from the civilian population. I am told by 
some physicians in industry that these epidemics do not differ to any 
extent from the epidemic of 1915 except empyema as a complication 
has been more prevalent. 

This hasty resume demonstrates that these acute respiratory in- 
fections have been gradually increasing in this country for the last 
six years. Each new epidemic has undoubtedly increased the viru- 
lence of these infecting organisms. The crowding together of thou- 
sands of young men in camps facilitated the spread of the disease. 
At the same time the speeding up of industry and the overcrowding 
that was necessary because of the war emergency made excellent 
epidemic environment. 

A description of the epidemic of 1915 written by the author* is in 
the main characteristic of all these acute respiratory epidemics which 
undoubtedly are very closely related in both cause and effect. 

During December, 1915, and January and February, 1916, our 
country, especially the Northern States, was swept with an epidemic 
resembling in almost all of its aspects the pandemic disease known as 
influenza which swept over the entire world in 1889 and 1890. From 
all reports, the East New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Ohio 
and the Northwestern States especially Minnesota and North and 
South Dakota and extending into Canada, suffered to the greatest 
extent from this epidemic. 

Because of our medical work among the employees of certain large 
industries in Chicago and through the various channels of examin- 
ing employees for occupational diseases, we had an unusual opportu- 
nity of studying over 1800 cases affected by this epidemic disease. 

Etiology. Clinically, the disease corresponded in practically all 
of its aspects with the old epidemic of influenza so well described by 
Osier, Laden and Senator, and Lichtenstern, and many others follow- 
ing the epidemic of 1890. But from a bacteriologic standpoint, we 
did not find the bacillus of influenza as described by Pfeiffer in 1892. 
From twenty-five blood cultures and a great number of cultures made 
from the secretions from the nose and throat of the affected indi- 
vidual, grown on blood agar, the organism usually found was a 



182 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

hemolytic streptococcus, often associated with the pneumococcus. 
Unfortunately the isolation of the various types of pneumococci were 
not carried out in 1915 as they are to-day. 

During the winter of 1912-13, especially during January and 
February, Chicago was swept by an epidemic of a very severe form 
of tonsillitis. At the same time there was an epidemic resembling 
very much the old so-called catarrhal fever, characterized by a severe 
coryza and a tendency for the infection to spread to the sinuses, espe- 
cially the frontal sinus and the antrum. The cases were often quite 
severe and the course of the disease prolonged. Bacteriologic studies 
of these epidemics were made by marry observers, but as a rule either 
a hemolytic streptococcus or a diplococcus was found as the cause of 
the infection. Again, last winter we had an epidemic characterized 
by fewer cases of tonsillitis, but by more cases of the nasal infection 
and accompanied by pharyngitis, laryngitis, and often bronchitis. 
Again the streptococcus and diplococcus were found as the most fre- 
quent organisms in the nasal and throat secretion of these cases. As 
in the present epidemic, the patients were usually told that they had 
the " grippe, " although as pointed out the influenza bacillus had not 
been found in any of these epidemics of the last three years. 

Lichtenstern, in his article in Nothnagel's Handbuch, in 1898, 
pointed out the relationship between the epidemic influenza to the 
ordinary influenza cold or catarrhal fever, which is usually present 
in all communities. He makes three divisions: First, the pandemic 
influenza, vera, caused by the Pfeiffer bacillus; second, epidemic 
influenza, vera, which develops for several years in succession after a 
pandemic and is also caused by the same bacillus; third, the endemic 
influenza or pseudo-influenza or catarrhal fever, commonly called 
the "grippe" and which is due to an unknown organism. 

During the period from 1912 to 1915, in the winter months, we 
witnessed an epidemic increasing in severity until it culminated in the 
disastrous epidemic of 191516 and resembled clinically the true 
influenza disease. But, instead of the influenza bacillus, the hemo- 
lytic streptococcus mixed with the pneumococcus has been the real 
cause of these epidemics. 

The disease was highly contagious. When a member of a family 
was stricken, it usually attacked the entire household. It spread 
throughout the schoolroom, attacking both the teachers and the pupils. 
The most significant feature of the contagion was the way in which it 
spread among the clerical forces of the department stores and among the 
employees of those industries which were forced to speed up, to work 
overtime and to take on extra employees in order to handle the Christ- 
mas rush of business. In one office, which is always rushed to the 
limit by increased Christmas business, 50 per cent, of the office 



EPIDEMIOLOGY IN INDUSTRY 



183 



force was caught by this epidemic. In certain industries, or in 
departments which were not affected by this extra Christmas work, 
the disease did not spread to any extent, and frequently missed them 
altogether. 

Whenever one or two cases developed in a room containing a great 
many employees, it was not uncommon to see sixty or eighty cases 
develop in that same room, within the course of a week. In many 
industries, a vicious circle was easily developed. The excess of work 
caused a spread of the disease, and the more employees that became sick, 
the harder did the others have to work. Those employed in outside 
work suffered far less than the inside workers. The hospitals, especially 
such institutions as the Cook County Hospital were overcrowded with 
patients. As a result, the nurses and hospital help were greatly 
overworked. The disease spread with alarming rapidity among the 
nurses. One hospital had 25 per cent, of their nurses sick at one time. 
Due to being "too busy," a great many of the above employees, and 
very likely the nurses neglected their bowels constipation resulted; 
many neglected to eat their regular meals or to take sufficient time 
to eat ; and many, due to working overtime, did not get sufficient sleep 
or time to recuperate from one day to the next. 

From a study of the above facts, it would seem that the chief pre- 
disposing causes to the spread of this epidemic were overwork (es- 
pecially inside work) , overcrowding, and the neglect of the fundamental 
principles of health namely, sufficient food and rest, regular meal- 
times, and proper elimination. 

The spread of this disease from one individual to another was 
undoubtedly through the nasal and respiratory secretions carried by 
the infected dust and other material of the working room. The 
actual onset of the disease was usually preceded by a coryza, sneez- 
ing, and the ordinary symptoms of "catching cold." Undoubtedly 
the careless sneezing and careless flipping about of the soiled hand- 
kerchief of the affected individual was the commonest means of 
communicating the infection to his fellow workers, fellow passengers 
in the street car, or any others who came in close contact with him. 
Other sources were careless spitting, careless blowing of the nose 
without using a handkerchief, the common towel, which can so easily 
collect secretions from the nose or mouth, the common drinking 
cup, kissing, and the handling of articles used by the affected 
individual. One had only to walk through our busy shopping dis- 
tricts, just prior to Christmas in order to see how many of both the 
clerks and the customers had "colds;" to see how frequently and how 
carelessly handkerchiefs were jerked from pockets and shaken in the 
air in order to spread them out; jto behold customers sneezing into 
their hands, then handling articles which were later bought by other 



184 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

purchasers; and to note the overcrowding everywhere, especially in 
the ill-ventilated basement salesrooms, in order to understand how 
such an epidemic could spread to almost every household in the 
city. In fact, one marvels that anybody escaped. 

Symptoms. We had the unusual opportunity of seeing several 
hundreds of these cases of this epidemic disease at their onset, plus the 
questionable privilege of studying the disease as fellow sufferers. The 
majority of the cases reported to the doctor because of a severe cold 
in the head, a slight sore throat, and a general aching throughout the 
body, usually complaining of backache, legache, or headache, in the 
order named. In every case the temperature and pulse were taken 
at once, and, as a rule, fever was always present, varying from 100 to 
103. The pulse was invariably slow in comparison to this tempera- 
ture, averaging from 80 to 90. Some of these complained of a severe 
cough, but as a rule the bronchitis symptoms developed later. In 
practically all cases, there was a history of prodromal symptoms, 
varying from one or two days to a. week, such as a marked coryza 
or sneezing, headaches, or a general feeling of lassitude. Many 
complained of constipation and others of sleeplessness and loss of 
appetite. 

In about 5 per cent, of the cases the onset was that of a gastro- 
intestinal disturbance. Nausea was marked, frequently there would 
be severe vomiting. Occasionally diarrhea was present, but con- 
stipation was the rule. Frequently, severe abdominal pains were 
complained of, and oftenest the pain was located in the left hypo- 
chondriac region, near the spleen. Fever was practically always 
present. Because of the abdominal symptoms a blood count was 
usually made, but it was seldom that the leukocytes were above 14,000. 
In a smaller percentage of the cases, the onset was very abrupt and 
was marked by profound prostration/ The patient would suddenly 
collapse while at his work. The pulse would become almost imper- 
ceptible and the surface of the body clammy and cold. In some of these 
cases, the temperature would be quite high, 103 or 104, and in two 
cases as high as 105^; while in others it would be subnormal. 
After getting the patient in bed and administering stimulants, 
these signs of collapse would rapidly disappear. Neither did these 
cases seem to run a more serious or more prolonged course than 
the others with the milder onset. In those with the severe onset the 
leukocyte count was usually 5000 to 7000. Leukopenia was very 
common following the illness. 

The symptoms most characteristic of this disease were the folio wing: 

Coryza. This was by far the commonest symptom, beginning 
early in the prodromal stage, and continuing through the course of 
the disease, even persisting after the patient was able to resume 



EPIDEMIOLOGY IN INDUSTRY 185 

his usual duties. The nasal secretion was very profuse and watery 
at first, but later tenacious in character. 

Sore Throat. With only few exceptions every case had a 
markedly injected throat, the soft palate, pillars and pharynx 
usually being involved. Frequently the uvula and soft palate 
were dotted with vesicles in fact this was such a common finding 
that it could be called characteristic of the throat condition. In 
those patients with hypertrophied tonsils, these were usually found 
inflamed. As a rule, there was a decided discrepancy between the 
subjective symptom and the marked inflammatory change in the throat. 

Myositis. Practically every case had a certain amount of 
backache and legache. In some, the aching in the muscles was acute 
and was the most bitterly complained of symptom. At times, this 
was accompanied by a sciatica or other form of neuritis. 

Headache. This was usually complained of in the early course 
of the disease. It was commonly located in the frontal, temporal 
region, and caused the patient to complain of dizziness on moving. 

Chill. An actual chill was uncommon, but cold extremities 
and chilly sensations all over the body, was the rule. 

Fever. This was present in the majority of cases at the onset. 
It was characteristic for the temperature to be normal in the morning, 
but up again in the evening. In most cases the temperature would 
disappear after two or three days. The average temperature. was 
100 to 101, but as stated before it occasionally rose very high, 
even to 105.5. The temperature depended a great deal upon the pa- 
tient's keeping quietly in bed until the symptoms disappeared. 

Pulse. This varied between 80 and 100, but the slow pulse was 
the most characteristic. 

Bronchitis.- This was a very frequent symptom. The cough 
was most often paroxysmal in character, especially at first. 
The sputum early was thin and frothy and usually contained small, 
white particles. In many cases this symptom subsided without any 
further development; in others, the bronchitis would persist and the 
sputum would become thick, yellowish, and purulent. The hemo- 
lytic streptococcus could usually be found in this type of sputum. 
As a rule, those cases ran the longest course which developed the most 
marked coryza and bronchitis. The examination of the lungs when 
bronchitis was present invariably showed fine, subcrepitant rales over 
the upper lobes. It was seldom that any other signs were present. 
Pleurisy was very uncommon. 

Herpes. Herpes about the nose and on the lip were present in 
a few cases, but were not the rule, as pointed out in the true influenza 
epidemic. 

Delirium. This was not noticed in any of the cases which 



186 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

came under our observation. Neither were other nervous manifesta- 
tions noticed to any extent. 

The above symptoms were those which were commonly noted at 
the outset of this disease when the employees reported to the doctor's 
office. 

Course of the Disease. The average length of time, in 1000 cases, 
for the disease to run its course was five and three-fourth days. Some 
recovered in twenty-four to forty-eight hours, while in others the disease 
persisted for three to six weeks. The course of the disease was undoubt- 
edly cut short by taking it in time and adopting active treatment at 
once. The most prolonged cases were those who persisted in working 
several days after the symptoms of the disease had manifested them- 
selves. Likewise the course was prolonged by patients getting up and 
about as soon as they began to feel better, instead of remaining in bed a 
few days after the symptoms had subsided. Relapses were very com- 
mon, especially among those who returned to work too soon. As a rule 
when a relapse did occur, the symptoms were much more severe 
than in the original attack. 

Complications. Pneumonia was by far the most frequent com- 
plication of this epidemic of 1915. Most of the deaths reported were 
due to pneumonia. In some cities the death rate from pneumonia 
increased four and five times, as compared with the year previous. 
In . Chicago the number of pneumonia deaths for the week end- 
ing December 11, 1915, was 77; during the week ending December 18th, 
the number was 108; for the week that ended Christmas Day, the 
number was 205, while the corresponding week a year before the 
pneumonia deaths totaled only 73. In talking with numerous 
physicians and different Board of Health officials, it was agreed by all 
that these increased pneumonia deaths were the terminal results of 
this so-called influenza epidemic. 

Pleurisy with effusion and empyema were reported by many doc- 
tors as a cause for the long continued absence of employees from work 
following an attack of this infection. 

Various forms of neuritis, especially lumbago were common com- 
plications. In examining a great many of these patients after they 
had recovered from an attack of this disease, a number were found with 
rapid, irregular hearts and other signs of a distinct myocarditis. A 
few cases of otitis media both serous and purulent and of mastoiditis 
were reported. It was not uncommon to find many cases of gastro- 
intestinal disturbance, following an attack of this epidemic, and a few 
cases were seen of cholecystitis accompanied with marked jaundice. 
Relapses or recurring attacks of the disease were very common. The 
greatest number of these occurred from one to two days after the 
patient had recovered from his original attack and had returned to 



EPIDEMIOLOGY IN INDUSTRY 187 

work; but a number of secondary attacks occurred as long as two and 
three weeks after the patient had returned to work. 

Many remote complications developed among the employees who 
had suffered from this epidemic infection, and, while the connection 
could not always be traced, yet we felt justified in holding this so-called 
influenza attack responsible. 

Within a period varying from two to eight weeks after their 
return to work, four men developed cases of acute, suppurative mastitis 
without any history of trauma to the gland. In two of these strepto- 
cocci were found and in two both streptococci and staphjdococci. 

Hand infections following slight injuries were more prevalent in 
January, February, and March following this epidemic than in any 
other equal period of my connection with this plant. Four cases of 
very slight scratches developed lymphangitis followed by large axil- 
lary abscesses. All four of these employees had suffered a short 
time before from the epidemic infection. 

Five employees shortly after their return to work developed 
severe abdominal pains, rigidity and diffuse tenderness. The leu- 
kocyte count was below 14,000 in all of these. The cases resembled 
acute appendicitis. One was operated but the appendix was only 
slightly injected. These cases corresponded to the descriptions 
of abdominal complications which were prevalent during the epidemic 
and were described as acutely inflamed mesenteric glands. 

Swollen glands of the neck were seen in several cases follow- 
ing the attack but only two of these suppurated. 

One case of cellulitis of the abdominal wall and another of cellu- 
litis of the thigh followed slight injuries to these parts in two men 
who had shortly before had the "grippe." 

In March, 1916, eighteen cases of tuberculosis were found among 
the employees. All of these had suffered during the winter from the 
epidemic. Twelve of these cases had been examined during the year 
previous to the attack and no signs of tuberculosis had then been 
discovered. This bears out the experience of others that these acute 
respiratory infections frequently tend to light up latent tuberculous 
areas. 

These remote complications demonstrate that the economic loss to 
industry from these increasing epidemics of streptococcic sore throat, 
streptococcic pneumonias, and streptococcic respiratory infections 
grafted on influenza or other acute infections continue for months 
after the acute epidemic has subsided. 

Treatment. The extensiveness of these epidemics, the greatly 
increased death rate, and the incalculable economic loss to the com- 
munity and to practically all of the industrial concerns, has presented 
many problems, not only to the health department but to those 



188 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

physicians engaged in industrial medical work. The greatest problem 
in the line of treatment is the prevention of the spread of such 
epidemics. 

Various health departments have done invaluable work through 
their newspaper campaigns of educating the public concerning the 
importance of isolating every case of this disease and their warnings 
concerning the danger of sneezing, promiscuous kissing, the use of 
the common towel, and all other means by which the secretion of 
the affected individual infect his fellows. The source of greatest 
menace to the public and one which is practically uncontrollable by 
a health department is the. early case who was not sick enough to re- 
main at home the first two or three days of his attack, the light case 
who in spite of his symptoms is able to stick it out and remain at 
work every day, or the serious case who, as soon as he feels better 
mingles with the public before he ceases to be a menace as an infection 
carrier. More harm is done by these three classes than all the other 
cases put together, and in the future a great amount of education 
needs to be directed toward these groups. It behooves the entire 
medical profession to recognize the infectious nature of this disease and 
to use the same precautions toward it that we do toward diphtheria 
and scarlet fever. 

The medical staffs of various large industries, and there are a 
number of such staffs now, found a task of great magnitude on their 
hands in combating this epidemic of 19 1 5. They were forced to face two 
problems in this work: First, to prevent the spread of the epidemic 
among the employees; and second, to be sufficiently conservative 
in their efforts as not to cripple the business, especially as there was 
an excessive amount of work, due to the Christmas rush. As soon 
as we recognized that an epidemic was among us, our medical staff 
took steps to subtly re-enforce the rules which are always in force 
concerning sickness. We notified every manager, floor manager and 
division head to send every employee who showed signs of "catching 
cold" or other signs of this disease to the doctor's office at once. 
Likewise, no employee was allowed to go home on account of sickness 
without reporting to the doctor's office first, and no employee was 
allowed to return to work after being home on account of sickness 
without first securing a permit from the doctor's office. This gave the 
opportunity of examining all those who were sick and of sending 
those who showed signs of this disease home at once, and of keeping 
them away from the department until they had fully recovered. A 
number who had apparently recovered were allowed to return to 
work, but as stated elsewhere, relapses were not uncommon. No 
opportunity was neglected to instruct the individual employee in the 
various means of preventing the spread of this infection. 



EPIDEMIOLOGY IN INDUSTRY 



189 



Two of our best methods of prevention were frequent airing out 
of the various departments and the formaldehyd fumigation of 
the departments overnight. The necessity of throwing open all 
the windows of the department for two or three hours in order to 
rid the room of the formaldehyd was undoubtedly one of the great 
benefits of the fumigation. Thus our efforts toward prevention were 
directed along four very definite lines : First, the ridding of the depart- 
ment of the affected individuals as rapidly as possible; second, educa- 
ting the employees concerning their individual responsibility toward 
preventing the spread of the infection ; third, the plentiful use of fresh 
air; fourth, the frequent fumigation. 

Active Treatment. We early recognized that a great many of the 
employees did not consider the sickness sufficiently serious to 
consult a physician, thus often needlessly prolonging their disability. 
We began therefore to ascertain from each sick employee the 
name of his family physician and insisted upon them calling him 
in as soon as they reached home. In a great many cases we called 
the family physician and made sure that he was on the job. Many 
had only a light attack of the disease and did not feel sufficiently sick 
to call in a physician, while others did not have family physicians. 
To these we frequently gave a prescription for aspirin, or sodium 
salicylate to be taken in ten grain doses every two hours. Likewise 
they were given a cathartic of castor oil or magnesium sulphate at 
once, and a gargle of DobelPs solution, and were then sent home 
and told to use the medicine as directed and stay in bed for at least 
two days. Our visiting nurse called on as many of these as possible 
and made sure that they were following out these directions. In 
this way many of these early cases were aborted and the employees 
were able to return to work within two or three days. By this careful 
supervision and with the aid of our visiting nurses, most of our patients 
received active treatment for this disease from its onset. In this way 
many of them were saved from serious complications and the length 
of their disability was greatly reduced. 

Results. While the death rate from pneumonia complicating 
the epidemic was increasing to 3 and 4 times the normal rate through- 
out the city, yet among the 1800 cases occurring among these 
employees there were only three deaths, all due to pneumonia. 

Three other large concerns in Chicago reported an absentee rate 
of from 25 per cent, to 35 per cent, of their total working force during 
this epidemic. In this concern 12 per cent, of the employees were 
involved. One physician reported 8 per cent, of the employees 
he was responsible for as absent on account of influenza, while a 
neighboring concern had 40 per cent, of their employees infected. 

One of the departments where the disease was very prevalent in 



190 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

the author's experience had a number" of employees absent for this 
cause during the first two weeks. We then began a thorough formal- 
dehyd fumigation of this department every night with the result 
that this infection decreased materially within the next two weeks, 
and after that this department had the smallest number of cases com- 
pared with the other departments in this concern. The fumigation 
method was used quite extensively after the first month of the epi- 
demic. Undoubtedly two sources of infection can be controlled by 
frequent cleaning and fumigation, namely, the material handled and 
the dust in the rooms. 

Physicians in industry are in the best position to co-operate with 
the public health officials in controlling these epidemics in a community. 
They can discover many of the cases at their onset and start early, 
proper treatment. They can educate the employees as to the best 
means of preventing the disease and its spread from one individual 
to another. The entire field of industrial hygiene can be utilized 
to combat the epidemic in both the industries and in the community. 

The above description of the streptococcic epidemic of 1915 
and the methods employed then are applicable to the epidemics 
described to-day under the various titles of "Spanish influenza," 
influenza, epidemic of streptococcus pneumonia and empyema 
(Joseph Miller), epidemic streptococcal bronchopneumonia (W. G. 
MacCallum), hemolytic streptococcus causing severe infections 
(H. L. Alexander), and described by Rufus Cole under prevention of 
pneumonia. 

Most of these later epidemics have been reported from army 
camps where the crowding together of the soldiers has facilitated 
their spread. But the same epidemics are weakening our man power, 
in industry and causing an ever increasing loss. Every year it is 
becoming more and more evident that the physician in industry 
must become an expert epidemiologist if he is to render the greatest 
services. 

While authorities differ as to the part played by the influenza 
bacillus in these epidemics, yet most investigators are convinced 
that the hemolytic streptococcus and the various types of the pneu- 
mococcus were the most dangerous agencies in the above described 
epidemic. 

In order to adequately meet the situation it must be determined to 
what extent the influenza organism lowers the patient's resistance and 
makes possible the invasion of these streptococcus organisms. The 
profession must become familiar with the exact nature of these 
hemolytic streptococci and pneumococci which are so prevalent in 
all of these epidemics. There are many unknown factors which must 
be cleared up before our preventive measures can be fully perfected. 






EPIDEMIOLOGY IN INDUSTRY 191 

It is just as necessary therefore for every industrial dispensary 
to have a well equipped laboratory and a special laboratory worker 
to study this disease among the employees as it is to have a similar 
arrangement in the army hospitals. More attention must be paid to 
the scientific field of investigation of diseases among employees. The 
savings to industry by such efforts would pay a hundred-fold dividends. 

Until we know the different strains of the organisms causing these 
epidemics our best preventive measure, namely vaccination, cannot 
be perfected. Nevertheless good reports are constantly being received 
which point to the fact that vaccination against pneumonia will 
soon be perfected. Lister, in South America, has reported very decided 
results from vaccination against pneumonia among the natives working 
in the mines, among whom pneumonia has always been very fatal. 

The isolation of these cases in infectious hospitals, keeping them 
segregated from other non-infected patients, the cubicle system, 
and other methods of prevention after the disease is established 
are giving excellent results. 

Our greatest problem both in industry and in the army is to 
prevent the spread of the disease. Searching out the cases instead 
of waiting for them to seek the doctor, instituting early isolation and 
treatment, educating each individual in methods of prevention and his 
responsibility toward others, and re-enforcing the methods of sanitation in . 
both the working places and the homes, are the essential elements for the 
control of epidemics. 

Searching Out the Cases. 1. See every sick employee, take 
his temperature and pulse, examine his throat and in other ways 
ascertain if his sickness is due to this disease. 

2. Instruct nurses and lay assistants among the employees (fore- 
men, assistant foremen and intelligent employees) to mingle with 
the working force and pick out anyone who shdws prodromal symptoms. 
Send these to the doctors for examination. 

Early Isolation and Treatment- 1. Immediately send every 
employee with fever of 99 2 or with a "cold," sore throat or other 
prodromal symptoms home. It is better to have ten such employees 
away for two days each than that three of their number should develop 
a severe infection causing two weeks' loss of time for each. These 
mild cases often are the sources of infection for other employees who 
may lose many days from work. 

2. Proper, early treatment given to those people with the prodromal 
symptoms will abort the more serious infections with their subsequent 
complications in the majority of cases. 

3. Rest in bed, free catharsis, and light, nourishing food are the 
most essential factors in early treatment. Each case should be super- 
vised so that a doctor is called at the first indication. 



192 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

4. Protection of those caring for these cases by masks, gowns, 
rubber gloves and disinfectants is essential. 

Education and Individual Prevention. 1. By individual con- 
ferences, talks with groups of employees, bulletin board signs, and 
large placards and bulletins printed in the different languages, the 
employees can be educated in all matters of prevention and their 
responsibility toward fellow employees. 
2. The chief points to emphasize are: 

(a) Reporting to the doctor at once when prodromal symptoms 

are noted. (Describe these.) 

(6) Sources of spread of the disease, namely, by careless sneezing, 
coughing, blowing of the nose, breathing or talking in another's 
face, using common drinking cups and towels, placing things 
in the mouth or handling articles which others will place in 
their mouths, carelessly shaking the handkerchief about, 
promiscuous spitting and numerous other ways in which 
the infected employee can become a menace to others. 

(c) Avoiding crowded rooms, theatres, street cars, when possible, 
and other places where people tend to congregate. 

(d) Instruct in home sanitation and the means of contaminating 
or being contaminated by other members of the family. 

(e) Preach good food, plenty of fresh air, and sufficient rest at 
all times. 

(/) Avoid booze, keep bowels regular and establish other regular 
habits. 

(g) Report every suspicious case to the doctors just as for diph- 
theria or small-pox. 
Reinforcing Sanitation Methods. 1. By preventing overcrowding. 

2. By adequate ventilation especially frequent airing out of the 
rooms. 

3. By cleanliness about the plant; sweeping only at night and 
then wet sweeping. 

4. By some adequate form of fumigation. 

5. By rest periods and other means of avoiding fatigue. 

6. By co-operating with the Public Health officials. 

This problem of the acute respiratory infections in the epidemic 
form has been dealt with at length because of its insidious nature, 
the great damage which it can do among employees, and because the 
methods of combating it also apply to all other types of epidemics. 

DIPHTHERIA 

Diphtheria is another disease which requires constant alertness 
on the part of the physician in industry to prevent its becoming 
epidemic. Fortunately it can usually be diagnosed early by adequate 






EPIDEMIOLOGY IN INDUSTRY 



193 



laboratory methods. The discovery of a few cases of this disease by 
the plant laboratory is always one of the strongest arguments in 
favor of this necessary adjunct to a well equipped doctor's office. 

Every employee reporting with a suspicious throat or with a very 
marked tonsillitis should be sent to the laboratory for an immediate 
smear examination and culture. The latter can be sent to the City 
Health Department if facilities are lacking for incubation. All these 
suspicious cases should be sent home at once. When the smear 
shows diphtheria bacilli, the same should be reported to the family 
physician direct so that he can administer the antitoxin early. Just 
as soon as the report is obtained from the culture it should also be 
reported if positive. All of these cases must be reported to the Health 
Department of the community at once so that proper quarantine 
measures can be provided. 

The department where the case developed must be closely watched 
for any other signs of an outbreak. All employees who remain at 
home on account of sickness during the next ten days should be visited 
by the nurse and the cause of the absence ascertained. The foreman 
and assistant foreman should always be advised of the condition and 
their co-operation secured for a closer observance of the existing rules 
if this is possible. "Whenever a case of diphtheria develops at the 
plant the department should be thoroughly fumigated as soon as the 
employees leave at night . The watchman can throw open the windows 
about 4 A.M. and air out the room before the force arrives in 
the morning. 

These rules have been carefully enforced by the author for several 
years. Many cases of diphtheria have been found among the em- 
ployees but seldom has it spread from one employee to another. The 
nearest approach to an epidemic was when seven girls in one depart- 
ment developed the disease at the same time. Two of these girls who 
roomed together failed to report for work because they were sick. 
The nurse called and found that no doctor had been consulted although 
both girls had severe sore throats. Cultures were made by the nurse 
and brought to the laboratory. The next morning these were found 
to be positive for diphtheria. The nurse immediately called and had 
the girls send for their physician who took charge. The health depart- 
ment was also notified. That day two other girls from this same de- 
partment reported to the doctor's office with suspicious throats and 
cultures proved positive in both cases. The department was fumigated 
that night. Every girl who was absent during the next ten days was 
visited by a nurse and the three additional cases were discovered in 
this way. Without the help of the laboratory I am convinced that a 
real epidemic of diphtheria would have developed in this department 
where 200 girls were employed. 

13 



194 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

Time and again the public health department has been put in touch 
with these sources of contagion and has been able to stamp out a 
threatened epidemic in the community. 

THE ACUTE EXANTHEMATA 

Sporadic cases of measles, scarlet fever, mumps, chicken-pox, and 
other contagious diseases are more or less prevalent in all communities. 
These diseases appear at intervals among the employees of any large 
industry. Constant watchfulness is necessary to prevent their 
becoming epidemic among those employees who are working in close 
contact with one another. This watchfulness must be increased when- 
ever these diseases appear in epidemic proportions in the community. 

In order to combat these contagious diseases among employees the 
physician must have accurate knowledge of every sign and symptom, 
must be able to discover these in their earliest aspects, and must iso- 
late all such cases at once. Following this the constant supervision 
of the other employees from that department and the fumigation of 
the department must be carried out as described for diphtheria. The 
visiting nurse is the greatest ally the physician has in all of these cases. 
Reports from the city health departments can be obtained whenever a 
contagious disease is present in the homes of any of the employees, 
thus enabling the physician to give individual supervision to such 
workmen. 

In a large industry employing 15,000 people in Chicago, the follow- 
ing contagious cases were found during a period of six months. Mumps 
alone appeared in epidemic form and was under control after one 
month. 

Disease Number of cases 
Mumps 22 

5 cases in one department 
4 cases in one department 

6 cases in three departments 

7 cases in seven departments 

Scarlet Fever 9 

2 cases in one department 

7 cases in seven departments 
Diphtheria 6 

2 cases in one department 

2 cases in one department 

2 cases in two departments 
Measles 4 

4 cases in four departments 
Erysipelas 2 

2 cases in two departments 

Chicken-pox 1 

Total.. . 44 



EPIDEMIOLOGY IN INDUSTRY 



195 



The small number of these cases occurring in the same department 
proves the advantage of this system of supervision. Every one of 
these employees were potential epidemic breeders. 

Small-pox. Most large industries require a certificate of vaccina- 
tion from every new employee. Some concerns vaccinate free of 
charge all applicants who fail to show a good scar or who have not been 
vaccinated within the last seven years. This latter plan was followed 
for three years in the concern with which the author was connected. 
It was seldom that a new employee refused to be vaccinated. Any 
arms that became quite sore or infected were cared for free of charge 
the same as an accident case, the employee receiving full wages during 
his abs'ence. This took much valuable time from the other medical 
work and was finally abandoned. Only those cases who on examina- 
tion could not show a good vaccination scar were required to be vac- 
cinated before being employed. 

Twice during a period of nine years the entire working force has 
been vaccinated because of a case of small-pox developing in an em- 
ployee while at work. Two doctors with four nurses as assistants were 
able to vaccinate 3000 employees a day, thus protecting the entire 
force by this method within a period of five days. In both instances 
the president and general manager of this concern set the example by 
being vaccinated first. 

Supervision of the working force, co-operation with the city health 
department and vaccination are the preventive measures needed 
against small-pox. 

Typhoid Fever. This disease has often proven very disas- 
trous to working forces. The chief methods of prevention consist 
of proper sanitation in the working force and in the community. 
Typhoid was very prevalent among the lumbermen of the Northwest. 
The industrial surgeons of Washington inaugurated an educational 
campaign against it which aimed at the employers and employees 
alike. By improving the privies and providing other means for sew- 
age disposal and by educating the people as to means of prevention, 
they were able to reduce typhoid fever to a wonderful extent. The 
sanitation measures necessary to prevent, this disease are so well 
known that details are not necessary here. Every physician in in- 
dustry should make it his business to clean up all conditions in the 
plant or in the community which predispose to this disease (see Figs. 
23 and 24). 

The experiences in the army of preventing typhoid fever by 
inoculation have proven how efficacious this method is. Only 
one death in almost 2,000,000 inoculations has been attributed 
to this measure. So far there has been less than 100 cases of 
typhoid fever in the army since this war began. Mark the con- 



190 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

trast in the army during the Spanish- American War when at 
times 90 per cent, of the cases in the hospitals were due to this 
disease. 

Undoubtedly our civilian population will adopt this form of pre- 
vention as universally as they have vaccination against small-pox. 
The physicians in industry should provide inoculations against typhoid 
for all employees who voluntarily seek this form of prevention. 

Several things are very essential in dealing with contagious diseases 
among the employees. Common sense methods must be used which 
will yield proper protection for the entire working force and yet will 
not cripple or stop the production of the plant entirely. For example, 
when a case of scarlet fever is found in a department it would afford 
a greater measure of safety perhaps to at once dismiss the rest of the 
force and fumigate the department at once. Such a procedure would 
be disastrous to business and fumigation at night with the other pre- 
cautionary measures described have proven adequate. Every effort 
must also be made to avoid panics among the other employees. A 
cool, calm, matter of fact attitude toward the situation will allay 
fears among the timid ones whereas excitement, blustering or a dis- 
play of haste will often start a panic. I have taken smears from 
the throat of every employee in a department looking for diphtheria 
carriers without creating the least fear among them. Careful explana- 
tions of your reasons for doing thus and so will always result in co- 
operation from the working force. 

The doctor's office should be provided with a room where these con- 
tagious cases can be isolated while awaiting transportation home or 
to the hospital. They should never be allowed to go home on the 
street car or in public conveyances. The writer made arrangements 
with a taxicab company to take such cases home and then have the 
cab return for fumigation. It is our duty to make sure that all 
public cabs used by contagious cases are properly fumigated before 
accepting other passengers. Often the public health departments 
will furnish free transportation in an ambulance for all contagious 
cases. 

No greater opportunity for developing the most scientific epidemio- 
logical methods can be found than here in the practice of Industrial 
Medicine. All the involved economic and social problems are here 
combined with our medical efforts. 

VENEREAL DISEASES 

The combating of venereal disease among employees has been woe- 
fully neglected by the majority of physicians in industry. This can 
be accounted for in two ways: (1) The indifferent attitude which 






EPIDEMIOLOGY IN INDUSTRY 197 

the medical profession has always assumed toward the prevention of 
these diseases; (2) the fact that most concerns have discharged the 
employee who was discovered with venereal disease. 

The war has awakened the profession and the general public to 
the extensiveness and the ravages of both gonorrhea and syphilis 
throughout the army and the civil population. It is to be expected 
that a more active, nationwide fight against these conditions will be 
the result. The plant physicians are in the best position to take a 
very prominent part in such an effort. 

Figures obtained from many industrial physicians show that the 
number of venereal cases found among the employees examined varies 
from 2 to 10 per cent. This is exceedingly low as compared with 
other diseases found and as compared with the statistics given showing 
the great prevalence of these diseases in the army and in many of our 
large cities. The explanation is found in the fact that the infected 
employee very carefully concealed his trouble fearing the loss of his 
job if it became known. 

In 1915 I began a systematic search for these cases. The manage- 
ment, through their medical department, let it become known that no 
man would lose his job if he reported to the doctor's office when he 
was diseased and especially if he followed the directions given him re- 
garding the protection of others. As a result the number of men found 
with venereal diseases rapidly increased. Arrangements were made 
to treat all these cases at the night clinic of Industrial Medicine and 
Surgery at Rush Medical College. Salvarsan was administered to the 
syphilitic cases for the cost of the drug. In a few cases loans from 
the concern were made to buy this drug due to the fact that it became 
very expensive during the early years of the war. All employees with 
syphilis in its communicable stage were kept away from work until 
the open lesion was healed. Careful instructions were given to all 
types of cases regarding the dangers of contaminating others. The 
acute gonorrheas were given light work always until it was safe for 
them to return to heavy occupations. 

Prevention propaganda was spread by personal talks whenever 
possible. I am sorry to admit that a general campaign of preven- 
tion against this condition, which certainly lowered the efficiency of 
the working force and caused much loss of time from work, was not 
undertaken. 

It is absolutely necessary for the medical staffs of industry to 
at once recognize that the prevention of venereal diseases is as logical 
a part of their work as the prevention of accidents and of other diseases. 

To accomplish this they should immediately adopt the following 
procedures : 

1. Spread the propaganda concerning the prevention of venereal 



198 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

diseases throughout the entire force, by posters printed in different 
languages and placed in every toilet; by individual talks, lectures to 
the men and stereopticon shows; by women physicians giving lectures 
to the girl employees. The following bulletin taken from the State 
Board of Health of Michigan and adapted to industrial needs by a 
few changes will illustrate the type of poster to use : 

VENEREAL DISEASES 

"Gonorrhea (or clap) is a germ disease. It causes: (1) 111 
health and loss of time and money to the man infected. (2) Many 
innocent wives to become invalids for life. (3) A large proportion 
of surgical operations upon women. (4) Many childless marriages. 
(5) Much of the blindness of children. Gonorrhea can be cured 
~buL often is not cured when the man thinks himself cured. The germs 
of gonorrhea often remain hidden in the body ready to cause serious 
trouble, even when the symptoms of disease have apparently ceased 
under treatment. 

" Syphilis (or pox) is often a germ disease. If not cured, syphilis 
may be transmitted to wives and children many years after infection. 
It may cause insanity, locomotor ataxia, or total paralysis. Syphilis 
can be cured, but only by long and thorough medical treatment. 

" Prevention. (1) Keep away from prostitutes, both professional 
and non-professional. (2) Sexual intercourse is not necessary to phys- 
ical and mental health. (3) Antiseptic washes and other preventive 
measures are not always reliable. 

"Beware of advertising specialists, who claim to cure 'nervous 
debility/ and 'private diseases of men.' The use of patent venereal 
medicines may lead to very serious consequences. Night emissions, 
or 'wet dreams/ if not too frequent are natural in men. They are 
not a sign of 'lost manhood.' Advertising specialists get large sums 
of money for treating 'diseases' which do not exist. 

" What to Do. (l) If you have exposed yourself, go at once 
to a competent physician. (2) If you contract venereal disease protect 
yourself and protect others report at once to the doctor's office. 
The plant physician will see that you receive proper treatment. 
You will not lose your job and the trouble will be held confidential 
between you and the doctor. (3) Do not worry. Lead a vigorous, 
healthful life and forget about sex matters. (4) Be consistent 
and adopt the same standard of sexual conduct for yourself that you 
expect of women." 

2. Arrange for the proper treatment of every venereal case and 
carefully supervise until cured. 

3. Instruct each case in proper methods of protection of his 
fellow workmen. 



EPIDEMIOLOGY IN INDUSTRY 



199 



4. Report every case to the Department of Health and co-operate 
with them in tracing down the source of the infection and in freeing 
the community of that prostitute. 

5. Subtly ascertain if the infected employee has infected other 
women and report these to proper authorities. 

6. Work for the adoption by all state governments of the following 
measures suggested by the Council of National Defense, Committee 
for Civilian Co-operation in Combating Venereal Disease. 

"(a) Establishment of a Bureau or Division of Venereal 
Diseases of the Department of Health with an ade- 
quate personnel, and with provisions for free labora- 
tory examinations (including the Wassermann test) 
and for the distribution of arsphenamine (salvarsan) 
under proper regulations free or at cost. 
"(6) Provision for the suppression of prostitution, for the 
examination of arrested prostitutes and for the iso- 
lation and treatment in public institutions of those 
infected. 

"(c) Provision for the commitment to institutions of unin- 
fected prostitutes for industrial training and for the 
commitment of all feeble-minded prostitutes to cus- 
todial care. 

"(d) Provision for the reporting of syphilis and gonococcus 
infection by physicians (according to regulations which 
protect both the patient and the public) , and for the 
compulsory and systematic treatment of all infected 
persons when necessary and for the protection of the 
public health. 
"(e) Establishment of venereal disease clinics and advisory 

stations. 

"(/) Provision for the posting of venereal disease placards in 
men's lavatories of barber shops, Y. M. C. A.'s, hotels, 
railroad stations, factories, stores and similar places 
and for the distribution of pamphlets of information. 
" (g) Provisions for lectures (with or without stereopticon) 
and for the display of educational exhibits under the 
auspices of the board of health, the council of defense 
or other agency, before business men's organizations, 
employed men, women, boys, and girls, church organ- 
izations, women's clubs and other groups. 

"(k) Provisions for the elimination of advertising specialists 
in men's diseases and of the sale of venereal disease 
nostrums." 



200 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

Industrial surgeons have taken the lead in almost every branch of 
preventive medicine and preventive surgery. The prevention of 
venereal diseases alone has been neglected. Laying all other motives 
aside, from an economic standpoint we can no longer afford to neglect 
this work. 



CHAPTER XIX 
HEALTH HAZARDS IN OCCUPATIONS 

The physician responsible for the human maintenance in an in- 
dustry must become expert in the detection and prevention of every 
health hazard connected with the various occupations represented 
therein. 

Volumes have been written on this subject of occupational diseases. 
In Europe numerous laws have been enacted for the prevention of work 
diseases and of recent years have been vigorously enforced. In our 
own country the various states are beginning to awaken to their re- 
sponsibility toward the millions of people employed in hazardous 
occupations and each year sees new and better legislation on this sub- 
ject. Not, however, until clear and adequate laws are passed and 
rigidly enforced by every state and by the Federal Government will 
the prevention of these conditions be perfected. Hand in hand with 
the legal measures there must be a nationwide educational campaign 
instituted. 

Physicians practicing industrial medicine must know the classical 
occupational diseases and must be constantly on the lookout for 
hazards in other occupations not heretofore considered harmful to 
employees. These doctors must become the pioneer crusaders in 
this, one of the greatest health movements thus far undertaken in our 
country. 

Until within the last ten years the subject of occupational diseases 
has been woefully neglected by the majority of the medical profes- 
sion. As a result of the work of a few physicians in industry the sub- 
ject has been more and more forcibly presented with the end that at 
least six medical schools of .the country now have courses for the stu- 
dents covering many of these diseases. 

Dr. John D. Ellis, one of the pioneer teachers in Industrial Medi- 
cine at Rush Medical College, University of Chicago, has written 
the following article on Health Hazards in Occupations for the author. 
This re'sume' and the references to other authors should give the student 
an excellent insight into the wide range of diseases which can result 
from occupations and the various methods employed thus far for their 
prevention. 

For this most helpful contribution the author desires once more to 
express his gratitude to his co-laborer, Dr. John D. Ellis. 

201 



202 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

DUST AS A HEALTH HAZARD 

The number of men who are unfitted for work at their trades or 
who are incapacitated after a few years of work because of conditions 
resulting from working at dusty occupations far exceeds those incapa- 
citated by all other health hazards. Dusty trades, therefore, claim 
consideration of first magnitude by the industrial physician. The 
health hazard resulting from dusty occupations is difficult to estimate 
since injurious effects are not always due to dust itself, but many 
times to bacteria gaining entrance to the system with the dust, or to 
infections made possible through lowering of the general or local 
resistance caused by the effect of dust on the workmen. 

Dust, bojth of the invisible and visible type, is much more dense in 
the air in factories and workshops than in any other place in which 
human beings are crowded together. The coarser dusts are of course 
visible, but the finely pulverized particles of matter constituting in- 
visible dust may be far more harmful if composed of irritating me- 
chanical matter like silicate spicules or poisonous material such as 
soluble lead salts. 

Some of the commonest industries in which the worker inhales 
large amounts of dust are the textile mills, especially cotton mills, in 
the carding and preparing rooms and manufacturing of shoddy, in 
handling of rags and other waste products of such mills, manufactur- 
ing of clothing and furs, renovating clothing, rags and mattresses, 
in flour and corn mills, quarrying and grinding of stone and the 
manufacture of cement, the smelting, buffing and refining of metals, 
and in the manufacture of carborundum, graphite, carbide and lime. 

Rambousek l quotes Hesse whose table of amounts of dust inhaled 
by men working ten hours a day in certain dusty industries is as 
follows : 

Horsehair works 0. 05 grains per day; 15 grams per year (300 days) 

Saw mills . 09 grams per day ; 27 grams per year 

Wool mills 0.10 grams per day ; 30 grams per year 

Flour mills 0. 12 grams per day; 36 grams per year 

Iron foundries 0.14 grams per day; 42 grams per year 

Snuff-tobacco workers 0. 36 grams per day; 108 grams per year 

Cement works 1 . 12 grams per day; 336 grams per year 

Arens 2 determinations show that in cement works while not 
in operation there were 130 milligrams of dust per cubic meter; 
while during the operation of the plant there were 244 milligrams. 
In a felt shoe factory in operation he estimated there were 175 milli- 
grams of dust per cubic meter of air; while Rogers found in skirt fac- 

1 Luftnerungreinigung und Ventilation, p. 103. 

2 Ibid. 






HEALTH HAZARDS IN OCCUPATIONS 203 

tory and pearl button works 70 grams of dust per million liters of air 
and in a brass foundry 75.2 grams in the same volume of air. 
Price 1 classifies dust as follows: 

1. As to source: 
(a) Meta . 
(6) Mineral. 

(c) Vegetable. 

(d) Animal. 

2. As to physical qualities: 
(a) Size. 

(6) Shape. 

Round or sharp edges. 

3. As to chemical characteristics: 
(a) Organic or inorganic. 

(6) Soluble or insoluble. 

Hoffman 2 classifies the source of dust in forty-two dusty industries, 
which of course does not include entire category, into the following 
groups: 

Group 1. Exposure to metallic dust Group 2. Exposure to mineral dust 

1. Grinders 11. Stone workers 

2. Polishers 12. Marble workers 

3. Tool and instrument makers 13. Glass blowers 

4. Jewelers 14. Diamond cutters 

5. Gold leaf manufacture 15. Glass cutters 

6. Brass workers 16. Potters 

7. Printers 17. Cement workers 

8. Compositors 18. Plasterers 

9. Pressmen 19. Paper hangers 
10. Engravers 20. Molders 

21. Coremakers 

22. Lithographers 

Group 3. Exposure to vegetable fiber dust 

23. Cotton ginning 29. Flax and linen manufacture 

24. Cotton textile manufacture 30. Hemp and cordage manufacture 

25. Spinners 31. Manufacture of jute and jute goods 

26. Weavers 32. Paper manufacture 

27. Hosiery and knitting mills 33. Cabinet makers 

28. Lace making 34. Wood turners and carvers 

Group 4. Exposure to animal and mixed fiber dust 

35. Furriers and taxidermists 39. Carpet and rug manufacture 

36. Hatters 40. Shoddy manufacture 

37. Silk manufacture 41. Rag industry 

38. Woolen and worsted manufacture 42. Upholstery and hair mattress makers 

1 Modern Factory, p. 395. 

2 United States Department of Labor, Bulletin 79, Mortality from Consump- 
tion in Dusty Trades. 



204 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

Migerka 1 has made a thorough study of the shapes of dust particles 
and crystals, and other various injurious effects on the lining of the res- 
piratory passages. He has collected microphotographs of the various 
dust particles. 

Pathological Effects of Dust Inhalation. Thompson 2 divided effects 
of dust on the human system into four types: 

1. Mechanical obstruction of air passages. When the respiratory 
passages are in normal condition 1 per cent, of the dust is collected 
by the mucosa of the nose and throat before it reaches the larynx. 
Heim and Hebert 3 have made a study of the effect of plaster-of-Paris 
dust on rabbits and dogs and find that but few inhaled particles pass 
the vocal cords. Ghrorer 4 has shown more than 50 per cent, of 
lead dust inhalations is caught in the nasal passages while the mouth 
shows as high as 15 per cent, of the inhaled dust. Glogau 5 ex- 
amined a number of workers in the jute mills and artificial flower 
and feather shops, finding that the nose was sometimes entirely filled 
with dust while in others only the turbinates and septum were affected. 

2. Laceration of the delicate mucous epithelium. The effects 
of dust on the respiratory mucosa vary in degree from irritating 
reflexes such as sneezing and coughing, and increased lacrimation 
with subacute or chronic congestion of the mucous membrane through 
all degrees of catarrhal rhinitis, laryngitis and bronchitis, depend- 
ing on what bacterial invaders appear in the field where the resistance 
of the tissues has been lowered by the constant assault. by dust parti- 
cles. In the lungs all stages of inflammation from mild bronchitis 
to chronic fibroid changes, pneumonia or phthisis can result. An 
anaphylactic reaction may result from inhalation of animal or plant 
dust and a part at least of the occupational asthmas are set up by 
this mechanism. Arnold, 6 has placed animals in atmosphere with 
some sandstone and ultramarine dust. All these types of dust reach 
the lung tissue easily and were found in the alveoli in the lung cells. 
There is a great divergency in the amount of harm done by the different 
particles of dust and. this depends chiefly on the size, shape, character 
and mechanical action of the particles. It is generally considered 
that of the mechanical irritants, silica is the most injurious. All 
metal and mineral dusts are more harmful than organic vegetable or 

1 Monograph on the Kinds of Dust in Industrial Establishments from the 
Museum of Industrial Hygiene of Vienna. 

2 "Occupational Diseases," 1914, p. 42. 

3 Effects of Dust in Producing Disease of the Lungs. Lecture before the 17th 
International Congress of Medicine, London, 1913, p. 21. 

4 "Orientierende Versuche iiber Quantitative Staub-absorption durch den 
Menschem aus staubreicher Luft," Wurzburg, 1912, p. 22. 

6 Second Report of New York State Factory Commission, Vol. II, p. 537. 
'Ascher: "Darner's handbuch Der Arbeiter Wohlfahrt, " p. 410. 



HEALTH HAZARDS IN OCCUPATIONS 



205 



animal dust unless the latter carry infectious material with them. 
Dust of emery, glass, granite, etc., has a very curious mechanical 
action. Dr. Collis 1 concludes that inhalation of all types of dust 
mechanically diminishes the power of chest expansion through the 
production of interstitial lung changes and subsequent emphysema. 
This diminution is later accompanied by high blood pressure. He 
thinks vegetable dusts are usually liable to produce asthma. He 
considers that of the mineral dusts, calcium salts are the least injurious, 
and that those not containing free silica tend to produce irritation 
of the upper air passages and non-tuberculous lung diseases, whereas 
others containing free silica are more likely to produce tuberculosis. 

3. Conveyance of soluble toxic material into the system. A well 
known example of this is the general effects of lead poison resulting 
from inhalation of lead dust in the painting and smelting trades. 

4. Conveyance of germs in dust. Rambousek well says, "Where 
no dust is, there are no bacteria in the air." 

THE CHIEF DUSTY TRADES 

In Hoffman's 2 estimate based on United States Census, 1910, 
of 44,130,000 American workers of both sexes, probably 5,600,000 
or about 12.5 per cent, are exposed to a greater or less degree to the 
health hazard due to working in an atmosphere containing a " rela- 
tively excessive presence " of atmospheric impurities com ing under the 
classification of dust. He has adopted a division of dusty trades 
depending upon the composition of dust to which the worker is most ex- 
posed, i.e., metal, mineral, vegetable fiber, animal and mixed fiber dust, 
and this makes as good a basis as any other for the discussion of some of 
the industrial processes involving the greatest health hazard due to dust. 

NUMBER OF PERSONS ENGAGED IN OCCUPATIONS MORE OR 
LESS EXPOSING TO INJURIOUS DUSTS, GASES OR FUMES, 
IN THE UNITED STATES 
(Ages 10 Years and Over) 



Exposure to 



Males 



Females 



Persons 



Metallic dust 


847,689 


45,387 


893,076 


Mineral dust ... 


756,459 


16,424 


772,883 


Animal and mixed fiber dust 


638,997 


494,505 


1,133,502 


Vegetable fiber dust 


152,999 


22,467 


175,466 


General organic dust 


500,936 


214,325 


715,171 


Municipal dust 


702,251- 


180 


702,431 


Gas exposure, fumes, etc 


1,196,191 


19,954 


1,216,145 











Total ' 4,795,522 813,152 I 5,608,674 

. j , j 

1 A. L. Collis: "Effects of Dust Producing Lung Diseases." 

2 U. S. Department of Labor Bulletin 79. 



206 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

Metallic dust exists to an injurious extent, in the atmosphere 
in almost every place in which metals are mined, smelted, refined, 
are manufactured into machinery or other finished products. Hoff- 
man 1 cites as evidence of the deleterious effects of metallic dust in- 
halation in the metal trades, thefact that a relatively small number 
'of persons of advanced years work in these industries; relatively high 
death rate prevails as compared with other trades, and more espe- 
cially a high rate of death from diseases of the lungs. In foundries the 
greatest amount of dust is evolved during the casting and baking of 
cores, grinding cast objects and in the sand blasting processes. Grind- 
ing, polishing, and buffing metal cast objects or metal dies evolves 
both metallic dust and mineral dust from the grinding wheel. The 
most dangerous metallic dusts are those composed of brass, copper, 
and lead, since these act not only as mechanical irritants to the 
respiratory system and eyes but by absorption, in the case of lead 
at least, also to constitutional poisoning. 

Mineral dust abounds as mentioned above wherever dry grinding 
occurs and also in all those trades connected with cutting, quarry- 
ing, or working stone of all sorts, grinding and cutting glass and 
diamonds, and also in the production of or employment in plaster, 
cement, pottery, carborundum, emery, graphite, carbide of calcium, 
and many other mineral products. It is impossible to estimate the 
relative importance of the parts played by the inhalation of dust of 
sulphuretted hydrogen carbon monoxid, and the ingestion of dust 
with the use of alcoholic beverages in the production of disease among 
miners and quarry men. Lindemann, 2 basing his figures on a trade 
organization numbering 357,321, shows that diseases of the digestive 
organs lead the list in the order of frequency with 11.1 per cent, per 
year, while diseases of the respiratory organs come second with fre- 
quency of 8.1 per cent. The ingestion of irritating dust may be re- 
sponsible for a considerable part of this first class, while heat and 
humidity, abrupt changes in temperature and overwork may bear part 
of the responsibility for the second class. 

As pointed out by Nieszytka, 3 the character of dust doubtless plays 
a more important role than the amount, for we are not otherwise able 
to explain the comparative innocuity of coal dust. Ogle 4 shows con- 
clusively that the coal miners are the least affected by phthisis and 
lung diseases of any class engaged in dusty occupations. As pointed 

1 U. S. Department of Labor Bulletin 79. 

2 Disease and Accidents of Miners and Tunnel Workers in U. S. 15th Int. 
Cong, on Hygiene., Vol. Ill, Part II, Washington, D. C., 1913. 

3 Nieszytka: Viertaljahrscht. f. Gericht, Medizin, etc., 1912, Vol.. 43, Suppl. 
Heft. 1 and 2, p. 143. 

4 Forty-fifth Annual Report of the Registrar General, England. 



HEALTH HAZARDS IN OCCUPATIONS 207 

out by Collis 1 the death rate from tuberculosis among miners is only 
high under exceptional conditions. In rock drilling, particularly siliceous 
rock, the danger of this infection is especially high, as it is also among 
those working in quartz rock. This is because of especially harmful 
characteristics of the sharp and pointed edged crystals of the dust 
evolved from working in these minerals. The harmful characteristics 
of the dust from these minerals is startlingly shown in the statistics 
of the mortality in the region around Butte, Montana, and the Joplin 
District, Missouri, compiled by Lanza and Higgins. 2 

Most conspicuous among the industries which are hazardous be- 
cause of the production of vegetable dust are those dealing with the 
production of textiles especially the ones in which hemp, flax and 
jute are handled. 3 In the carding, ginning, and preparation of cot- 
ton for cloth manufacture, an especially revolting aspect of the dust 
hazard is to be found in the customary employment of large numbers 
of women and children which prevails under the most distressing con- 
ditions in those southern states in which factory inspection is most 
lax and opposition to the passage of proper statutes for the regulation 
of the minimum age of employment and hours of labor for these 
is most stubborn. Even in the best regulated mills the work of 
the employee involves constant confinement in a dusty atmosphere. 
In the weave rooms and in ring-spinning rooms there is no method of 
alleviating the dust hazard except that of general ventilation ex- 
haust apparatus not being feasible. 4 In the card stripping process, 
recently invented machines, now in use in many mills in New England 
and to some extent in the southern states, replace hand labor thus 
reducing number exposed. 

The general processes involved in the manufacture of woolen goods 
carry the same health hazards as those of the cotton industry; sorting, 
carding, combing, spinning and weaving being the most dusty. Occa- 
sional cases of anthrax infection result from this industry. Hoffman's 5 
statistics based on 155 deaths among carpet and rag makers show 23.9 
per cent, were due to consumption and 16.9 due to other diseases in 
the respiratory tract. In the flax and linen industries, the health 
hazard due to dust is greater than in the woolen mills. The "heck- 
ling" process, being the most dusty, results in so-called "mill fever," 
to which our attention is called by Oliver. 6 

The death rate from tuberculosis in Belfast 7 with 30,000 of its 

1 Transactions International Congress of Medicine, London, 1913. 

2 Technical Paper No. 105, U. S. Bureau of Mines, 1915. 

8 Bulletin, U. S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics No. 127. 

4 Harrington-Richardson: "Practical Hygiene," p. 650. 

8 Bulletin Bureau of Labor No. 79, 1608. 

Oliver: "Diseases of Occupation," London, 1908. 

7 Ferris, G. H. : Journal of State Medicine, March, 1895. 



208 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

population engaged in the linen industry was 4.1 per cent, per 1000 as 
compared with 1.4 per cent, for the whole of England and Wales and 
2.1 per cent, for Ireland. In the manufacture of cordage, twine, jute 
including gunny cloth of which jute is the principal material, crash 
toweling, linen thread, nets and skeins, the work is now largely done 
by machinery except the preliminary opening of the baled material 
and feeding it into softening machines which is very dusty. 

The dangerous dusts arising in the manufacture of dyes, especially 
coal tar dyes and those emanating from such mordants as arsenite 
of sodium which are used before the application of coal tar, and those 
from the lead salts used in calico printing and yarn dyeing are becom- 
ing less of a hazard because of the modern regulations covering their 
use. Clayton 1 found dust arising from lead and the chromic acid salts 
of lead still prevalent causes for poisoning in Great Britain in 1906. 

The most drastic preventive measures against poisoning from dust 
produced in dye works, should be in effect in every state. The 
principal safeguards are the mechanical suction ventilation by fans of 
all parts of the dye processes from which any dust arises; the changing 
of clothing at the completion of each day's work; special lockers for 
street clothing to prevent dust and contamination; compulsory wash- 
ing of the hands and face before meals and facilities for eating meals 
in rooms entirely separated from the industry; and the use of respira- 
tors in especially dusty places. Impervious oily applications to the 
skin are also indicated in some parts of the industry. 

Careful study of the ill effects of the dust arising in the boot and 
shoe industry has been made by J. Beatty, 2 Medical Officer of Health 
of Northampton, England, where he found the death rate from 
tuberculosis among operatives in this industry to be 2.59 per 
1000 as compared with the normal average of 2.08 per cent, for the 
whole population. F. L. Hoffman 3 in the study of the causes of 
death in the city of Brockton, Mass., found 25 per cent, of the deaths 
among shoemakers to be due to pulmonary tuberculosis and 11.4 per 
cent, to other lung diseases. Among the various processes in this 
industry, heel polishing and bottom sanding probably have the greatest 
dust hazard. 

The high percentage of pulmonary tuberculosis among tailors and 
garment workers as instanced strikingly in many investigations and 
typically in that of Epstein, 4 who found 43.7 per cent, of the deaths 
among tailors to be caused by pulmonary tuberculosis, is of course by 
no means entirely due to exposure to dust. Overworking, over- 

1 Clayton: Brit. Med. Journ., 1906, Vol. I, p. 310. 
2 Ibid. 

3 Hoffman, F. L.: Bulletin Bureau of Labor, No. 82, May, 1909. 

4 Epstein: "Weyl's Handbuch d. Arbeiterkrankh.," Jena, 1908, p. 310. 



HEALTH HAZARDS IN OCCUPATIONS 209 

crowding, underfeeding and poor ventilation, as well as filthy home 
conditions, are all factors of importance in its production. 

Occupations concerned with the sorting of linen, wollen and cotton 
rags, and the operation of machines for shredding rags in the produc- 
tion of shoddy are very dusty ones. These processes are being more and 
more handled by machinery. Many infectious diseases from contami- 
nated cloth can be spread in such occupations, among which small 
pox, anthrax, scarlet fever, tuberculosis and diphtheria have most 
often been recognized as resulting from "occupational exposure." 
Disinfection of the rags before shredding would prevent these, but 
chronic affections of the air passages from the constant inhalation of 
this organic dust can only be eliminated by proper ventilation. When 
rags are made into wall paper, danger from inhalation of bleaching 
chemicals enters as another hazardous factor. Furthermore, in the 
production of wall paper, many of the dyes contain arsenic or lead 
pigments which give rise to poisonous dust. Men employed in wall 
paper works should be examined at definite periods the same as any 
other men engaged in handling poisonous chemicals. 

The amount and character of the dust evolved in wood working 
industries depends upon the character of the wood used. Dust particles 
from hard wood are finer, sharper and more irritating to the respira- 
tory passages than from soft wood. Among those which produce- a 
toxic or especially irritating dust are (1) "sequoia wood," 1 (2) "coco- 
bola wood, " 2 and (3) "sabion wood, " 3 which produces catarrhal symp- 
toms, the Japanese hard wood "Togayasa, " satin wood, blue gum, 
Indian rosewood, African boxwood, teak, and many more exotic hard 
colored woods of oriental origin. 

Sommerfield 4 estimates the mortality rate among wood workers 
in Prussia as 6.6 per 1000, while Roth 5 estimates that 61.7 per cent, of 
all deaths among wood turners in Berlin between 1890 and 1897 were 
caused by phthisis. 

Splitting and sorting rattan in chair factories, whip and walking 
stick manufacture, and furniture repair work, all carry a high health 
risk on account of the dust hazard in most workshops. 

In threshing grain, storing and sorting it in elevators, flour milling, 
and baking, machinery is replacing the hand work and "millers' 
asthma" and tuberculosis, once prevalent in some of these trades, 
are consequently diminishing. 

Much discussion has arisen over the supposed health hazards 

1 Oliver: "Dangerous Trades." 

*Neisser: Internat. Ubersicht iiber Gewerbehygiene, Berlin, 1907. 
"Nestler: "Prometheus," Berlin, 1913. 
4 " Handbuch der Gewerberkrankbeiten," Berlin, 1909. 
6 " Gewerbehygiene," Leipzig, 1907. 
14 



*210 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

in the manufacture of cigars and cigarettes, and other forms of 
tobacco, and the U. S. Census Bureau among twenty-three occupations 
tabulated, places the rate of death from tuberculosis in this industry 
second only to that for marble and stone workers. Typical amblyopia 
such as is produced by nicotin is reported quite frequently among 
tobacco workers who do not use tobacco in any form. 1 These in- 
toxications may be due quite probably to ingestion of tobacco or 
tobacco juices and possibly to absorption of nicotin through the skin as 
well as to the inhalation of tobacco dust. 

INDUSTRIAL POISONS, OCCUPATIONAL INTOXICATIONS, GASES AND 

FUMES 

Intoxications, poisonings or illnesses resulting directly from the dele- 
terious action of materials used in the industries upon the body are 
variously defined for legislative, administrative and medicolegal pur- 
poses. Rambousek, 2 omitting industrial infections, defines substanti- 
ally an industrial poisoning as one produced or somehow occasioned in 
industrial occupation and which is brought about inadvertently and con- 
sequently against the will of the person poisoned. Kober 3 defines dis- 
eases of occupation as injuries and disturbances of health contracted in 
industrial pursuits, and other vocations in life, as a result of exposure to 
toxic agents, infectious organisms, or other conditions inimical to 
health. This is an admirable definition since it includes a recogni- 
tion of such factors as fatigue, epidemics from crowding, speed of work, 
over-specialization, prolonged periods of labor, faulty ventilation, 
and all others the close relation of which with the more specific 
causes of occupational diseases is often unrecognized. Industrial 
poisons are, from a medicolegal viewpoint, well defined by Dr. 
R. Fischer and this definition is approved by the advisory council of 
hygiene of the International Association of Labor Protection. " Indus- 
trial poisons are, in general," he says, "those raw materials and 
products, by-products, and waste products which in their extrac- 
tion, manufacture, and use in industrial processes may, notwith- 
standing the exercise of ordinary precaution, find entrance into the 
body in such quantities as to endanger, by their chemical action, 
the health of workmen employed." Dr. Fischer has also revised the 
list of industrial poisons elaborated in 1908 by Prof. Thomas Sommer- 
field, Sir Thomas Oliver, and Prof. Felix Putzey. This has been im- 
proved and edited by the International Association of Labor Legislation 
and furnishes the most trustworthy and authoritative list available 

1 Galezowski: " Des Ambly op. et Amauroses toxigues," 1897. DeSchweinitz : 
"The Toxic Amblyopias, Etc.," 1896. 

2 " Industrial Poisoning," p. 159. 

3 Kober and Hanson : " Diseases of Occupation and Vocational Hygiene," p. 417. 



HEALTH HAZARDS IN OCCUPATIONS 211 

at present. A translation published by the Bureau of Labor in 
Bulletin No. 100, and also by Kober and Hanson, is reproduced at 
the end of this chapter. The diseases here listed are classified with 
reference to their chemical causes, and fifty-four poisons are dealt 
with. 

By a simple method of classification, now classical, suggested by 
Rambousek, 1 industrial poisons are divided into: 

1. Poisons which act superficially, i.e., which cause in the organs 
they touch, gross anatomical lesions (irritation, corrosion, etc.), 
the so-called contact effect. To this class belong irritant and corro- 
sive poisons. 

2. Blood poisons, i.e., poisons which are absorbed by the blood 
and change it. This change can affect either the blood coloring 
matter which combines with certain poisons to form chemical 
compounds, or the red blood corpuscles themselves can be altered or 
destroyed by poisons having hemolytic or agglutinating actions. 

3. Poisons with definite internal action, the so-called remote or 
specific effect. To this class belong the poisons which, after being 
absorbed into the system act upon particular organs or tissues in a 
specific manner (nerve poisons, heart poisons, etc.). 

It is indeed possible for one poison to display two or even all 
three of these modes of action. Industrial poisons can be absorbed 
(1) as solid substances; (2) as liquids; and (3) as gases. Of the effects 
and dangers the absorption of poisonous substances in the form of 
dust we have already spoken. Industrial poisons which contaminate 
the air of the factory in the form of gases or dust are inhaled, or 
swallowed and absorbed through the alimentary system, or both. As 
a rule only liquid poisons enter the body through the skin. 

Often repeated or continuous absorption of small quantities of poi- 
son produces slowly developing symptoms, but, as in lead poison, acute 
symptoms may develop after long exposure to the deleterious effects 
of small quantities of the toxic material. Acute industrial poison 
sometimes develops so suddenly that unconsciousness may super- 
vene before the affected workman can withdraw himself from the 
influence of the poisonous agent as may be the case in carbon mon- 
oxid or mineral acid fumes poisoning. The effects of various poisons 
vary in severity and acuity from fatal attacks of acute chlorin or ben- 
zine poisoning, to the chronic intoxications from lead, mercury, arsenic, 
phosphorus, etc. 

It must be remembered that an important role in the production 

of an occupational poisoning in any particular case is played by 

the factors of dosage per unit of body weight, rapidity of absorption, 

and such predisposing causes as individual susceptibility, acclimatiza- 

1 " Industrial Poisoning," p. 158. 



212 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

tion or tolerance to the particular poison, low state of vitality, pre- 
vious illness, bronchial or gastric affections, wounds and abrasions 
of the skin and alcoholism as well as the functional state of the organs 
through which toxic substances are eliminated from the body, i.e., the 
intestines, lungs, liver, kidneys, and skin. The possibility of intoxi- 
cation by any particular poison presupposes its solubility by the "body 
juices." 

Laws requring the reporting of cases of occupational diseases and 
industrial poisoning in the industries have been so recently enacted, and 
in so few states, the detection of such cases in factories is so 
infrequent where an especially trained physician is not employed 
for the purpose, and periodical physical examinations of workmen 
exposed to these hazards so rarely established, that in America it is 
impossible even to guess at the extent of these diseases. In 1910 the 
First National Conference on Industrial Diseases 1 roughly estimated 
that there were at least 13,400,000 cases of occupational diseases in 
this country. These figures were based on the number of cases reported 
in industries in continental Europe as compared with the number of 
men employed in similar industries here, but without the possibility 
of allowance for a comparison of the preventive measures employed 
in Europe and America. 

Aside from such rough estimates there have been, however, occa- 
sional careful pieces of work done upon the number of cases of certain 
occupational diseases in this country in very limited fields, as for in- 
stance, the study by Dr. Andrews 2 in 1910 of the phosphorous 
poisoning ocburring in fifteen match factories in which 65 per cent, of 
the employees were exposed to the dangers of such poisoning with 
eighty-two cases of serious poisoning found in three factories alone; 
and the work of Drs. Alice Hamilton and Andrews on the prevalence of 
lead poisoning in certain trades, done under the authority of the United 
States Department of Labor and the Illinois Commission on Occupa- 
tional Diseases; and following this the investigation of occupational 
disease in the various industries by various workers found in the Bul- 
letins of the U. S. Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics, 
Nos. 95, 104, 120, 141, 165, 166. 

In the scope of this chapter a comprehensive description of all 
the substances which may be injurious to the health of working people, 
the industrial processes in which the use of these substances is 
involved, and the symptoms each produces, is impossible. A study 
of the references given, however, will enable every physician in in- 

1 "Memorial on Occupational Diseases of the First National Council on Indus- 
trial Disease." 

2 Phosphoious Poisoning in the Match Industry, Bulletin 186, United States 
Bureau of Labor. 



HEALTH HAZARDS IN OCCUPATIONS 213 

dustrial medicine to completely familiarize himself with this impor- 
tant subject. 

Before a consideration of measures of prevention, a brief descrip- 
tion of the more commonly found types of industrial poisoning and 
the industrial processes in which they frequently occur is in point. 
> 

LEAD POISONING 

Lead poisoning is the most generally recognized and most widely 
spread of metallic industrial poisonings. The population at large is 
also frequently affected by ingestion of this metal from drinking water 
and beer pipes, bottled beverages where lead stoppers are used, canned 
goods, cosmetics, lead enameled cooking utensils, and a myriad other 
sources more difficult of detection. It is typically a cumulative 
poison, the symptoms appearing either as those of an acute or chronic 
intoxication. Some of the first suspicious symptoms of significance to 
the physician engaged in industrial medicine are pallor, lassitude, weak- 
ness or loss of weight, anorexia, constipation, or alternating constipa- 
tion and diarrhea, arteriosclerosis, or high blood-pressure, tremor of 
the tongue or hands, wasting of the subcutaneous fat especially in 
the infra-orbital regions. Any of these may be the initial symptoms, 
and developing in a man who on careful physical examination reveals 
no other cause for it, and who is working at an occupation where .he 
is exposed to the chance of lead poisoning, should be considered as 
gravely suspicious until the possibility of plumbism is entirely and def- 
initely eliminated. The classical blue line on the gums, which is 
probably due to the formation and deposit of sulphide of lead through 
the action of sulphuretted hydrogen arising from decomposition in the 
mouth cavity, is unfortunately not so often seen, even in well devel- 
oped cases, as was formerly believed, some recent investigations re- 
sulting in the identification of an unquestionable blue line in no more 
than 15 per cent, of several hundred lead poisoning cases. Its presence 
without other evidence is not positive proof that the person is under 
the influence of lead. Indefinite complaints of abdominal pain, not 
typical lead cramps, in a man exposed to plumbism are also sufficiently 
suggestive to justify the physician in placing the worker under obser- 
vation and instituting repeated examinations. Arthritic pains, per- 
sistent headache, occasional slight fever, defective vision, neuritis, 
not otherwise explainable on physical examination, come in the same 
category. 

With the development of compulsory routine medical examina- 
tion or inspection of workers exposed to occupational disease hazards, 
and requirement by the state of the reporting of all cases found, the 
physician in industry is fortunately being held to stricter and stricter 






214 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

accountability for the early diagnosis of lead poisoning. The routine 
periodical examination of such workers should be as thorough as pos- 
sible. This must often, unfortunately, be made at the working place 
of the employee instead of in a physician's office or plant hospital. 
The following procedures are essential to such an examination if the 
earliest cases are to be detected: 

1. Inquiry into the general health of the employee, especially in 
reference to headache, anorexia, joint, muscular, nerve or abdominal 
pains, symptoms referable to the special senses and history of the 
occurrence of constipation or diarrhea. 

2. Examination of blood pressure, systolic and diastolic, and com- 
parison with the reading at previous examinations, and palpation 
of accessible arteries for sclerosis. 

3. Examination of the urine. 

4. Examination of the gums for lead line and of mouth with a view 
to suggestions for the correction of dental conditions. 

5. Observation of hands and tongue for tremors. 

6. Examination of the grip and wrist extension of each hand by 
means of a manometer, both the grip and power of extension being 
taken. For the latter the manometer can be fitted into a portable 
wooden frame. The readings should be compared with those at previ- 
ous nonths to detect the beginning of muscle weakness. 

Any worker in whom any suspicious findings appear during such 
examination should be called to the physician's office or plant hos- 
pital for complete physical examination and here a complete history 
can also be taken, a procedure not feasible at his place of employment 
especially since a history of impotence, fetal death or abortion due 
to plumbism, and difficult to elicit, are of diagnostic importance in 
lead poisoning. The offspring may even be affected while the mother 
is normal and the father "leaded." 1 

By the most rigid medicolegal test a positive diagnosis of plumbism 
entails the fulfillment of Gowers's three postulates that: 

1. Lead must be demonstrated as entering the body (this by a study 
of the chances of ingestion or inhalation of dust or fumes at the em- 
ployee's work). 

2. It must be demonstrated to be in the body by indisputable clin- 
ical symptoms such as for instance typical paralysis or lead cramps, 
or the typical changes in the red cells consisting of the diminution in 
the amount of hemogoblin accompained by structural changes in 

1 Paul cited in G. C. Nijhoffs article on Action on Ovum of Superfluous 
Semen. Nederl. Tijdschr v. Geneeskunde, Amsterdam, ii, No. 16. Cole and 
Bauckhuber: Proc. Soc. Exper. Biol. and Med., 1914. Weller C. V.: Jour. Med. 
Research, 1915, xxxiii, 271. Effect on Offspring of Lead Poisoning in the Father. 
Jour. A. M. A., December 25, 1915, Ixv, No. 26. 



HEALTH HAZARDS IN OCCUPATIONS 215 

these cells, as evidenced by the production of the well known baso- 
philic granules therein. Other changes in the red cells less commonly 
recognized are decreased elasticity and reduction of the powers of 
resistance to chemically acting hemolytic agents. It must not be 
supposed that any of these changes are considered as pathognomonic 
or characteristic only of lead poisoning as these or almost identical 
changes have been demonstrated also in intoxications by phenyl 
hydrazine, dinitro-benzene, corrosive sublimate, and other poisons 
are well known to occur in such wasting diseases as pernicious anemia, 
carcinoma, leucemia, grave secondary anemia and tuberculosis. (In 
the author's experience the same blood findings have been noted in 
chronic cerebrospinal syphilis.) 

3. The final postulate to be fulfilled is the demonstration of the 
excretion of lead from the body. Although development of lead neph- 
ritis, which is pathologically not distinguishable from other chronic 
Bright's disease, may occur as a late feature of plumbism, and suggests 
that an excretion of lead through the kidney often takes place, re- 
peated examination of the urine even in well developed cases of plumb- 
ism generally fails to reveal the presence of lead. For clinical pur- 
poses it is generally granted that lead cannot be found in urine where 
no albumin appears. The demonstration of lead in urine should 
under most circumstances be left to the chemist as its positive identi- 
fication involves fairly complicated chemical manipulation. The 
presence of a black precipitate in the urine through which the easily 
generated hydrogen sulphide gas has been passed during the examination 
by the physician, however, is sufficiently suggestive to indicate the ad- 
visability of a thorough chemical examination for lead. Elimina- 
tion of lead principally as the sulphide from the feces does not of itself 
prove that the patient is " eaded, " but shows, however, that he is 
ingesting the metal which may produce plumbism at any time and 
makes the correction of the faulty factory hygiene or personal habits 
of the patient, which permitted such ingestion, urgently desirable. 
Diagnostic tests for elimination by the skin are scarcely to be credited 
since such lead excreted by the skin cannot be differentiated from 
that in dust settling on the kin in the workshops. 

However, wherever a worker even remotely exposed to plumbism 
presents any of the early symptoms suggestive of lead poisoning, he 
should be put under observation by the physician at the plant and 
subjected to repeated examinations and treatment applied until his 
symptoms have disappeared and the possibility of the development 
of plumbism eliminated. 

The typical lead colic may be the first symptom of the disorder 
and some investigators, like Sir Thomas Oliver, believe that a worker 
is more likely to develop such cramps after a brief exposure than are 



216 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

men exposed to the danger of being " leaded" over a period of many- 
years and who often develop a tolerance to its action on the gastro- 
intestinal system. The typical colicky pains often set in with marked 
vehemence. They radiate from the vicinity of the umbilicus in all 
directions, the musculature of the entire abdominal wall becoming 
tense. Pressure on the abdomen generally relieves the pain some- 
what. During the attacks the pulse may become quite slow. Cathar- 
sis generally fails to relieve such an attack. While these cramps 
frequently last from a few minutes to a half hour some are more stub- 
born, continuing with remissions for days. The attacks vary greatly 
as to frequency, following one another in a series or occurring singly 
weeks or even, in rare cases, years apart. 

In untreated lead poisoning, motor nerve paralysis is very apt to 
develop although after the appearance of early symptoms some workers 
seem to develop a certain degree of tolerance to the action of the metal. 
The commonest type of lead paralysis is that first affecting the ex- 
tensors of the wrists and later all the muscles supplied by the radial 
and ulnar nerves. Both hands are generally affected and the progress 
of the affection is typical, beginning with paralysis of the ex- 
tensor digitorum communis, passing to the remaining extensors, then 
to the abductor muscles of the hand. Foot-drop, affections of the 
facial nerve and other paralyses are less common. 

The early recognition of lead poisoning is essential to the pro- 
tection of the worker and in properly conducted shops, with careful 
medical supervision, suspicious cases should be recognized as such, 
treated and removed from the injurious action of lead before the 
development of extreme anemia, basophilic degeneration of the red 
corpuscles, lead paralysis, or encephalopathy. 

It is the concensus of opinion at present that all lead compounds 
must be regarded as more or less poisonous although formerly a large 
number of investigators contended that only those salts and com- 
pounds soluble in water or weak acids, or "the juices of the body" 
could be regarded as dangerous, holding that all others were incapable 
of being absorbed into the body and hence innocuous. The most 
readily soluble preparations, the acetate, chlorid, carbonate (white 
lead), oxid of lead (lead dross), and minium (red oxid) are most 
poisonous, the sulphate and iodid is less poisonous, and the insoluble 
sulphide probably is the least poisonous of all. 1 

Among the dangerous lead trades a few are conspicuous although 
poisoning has been demonstrated to occur in so many it is difficult 
even to enumerate them all. Oliver in his "Dangerous Trades" states 
that it is used in not less than 138 industries. Thompson mentions 
eighty-six. As an isolated instance of the prevalence of lead poison- 
1 Thompson: "The Occupational Diseases," p. 204. 



HEALTH HAZARDS IN OCCUPATIONS 217 

ing in American industries, Dr. Hamilton found plumbism in thirty- 
three out of fifty-six factories inspected in the state of Illinois. As an 
illustration of the wide distribution of this industrial intoxication she 
has found it existing in the industries involved in the manufacture 
of white lead, litharge, orange mineral, red lead, glazing and decorating 
white wear and sanitary earthenware pottery, tiles, porcelain, in 
smelting works and lead mining, in the production of storage batteries 
and accumulators, in painting processes, rubber goods production, 
as well as many processes never thought of by most practicing phy- 
sicians as involving such a hazard, e.g., in the making of car seals, 
tin foil, wrapping cigars in tin foil, laying electrical cables, making 
artificial flowers, china painting, handling wall paper and many others. 

A large number of lead poisoning cases have been reported in white 
lead works. In America there are four processes in use for its manu- 
facture: the Old Dutch, the Carter, the Matheson and the Mild. 
In the first, which is the most common, the lead in thin discs is packed 
into pots of acetic acid and burned for about one hundred days. In 
stripping out the white lead thus produced, a great deal of dust is 
evolved and, in the type of this process used in the United States, the 
work cannot be made less hazardous by sprinkling or sluicing the lead 
with water as is done in England and Continental Europe. Unless 
suction exhaust ventilators are used in the dry pan room, a great 
amount of lead dust is inhaled by the workers here also. 

In the Carter process, the men are handling finely powdered 
material and the hazard is great. The Matheson and Mild, rarely 
used in America, are wet processes where the hazard is great only 
while packing and grinding the finished product. 

The roasting of lead oxids at the lead smelters or in connection 
with making of white lead, produces lead fumes from the furnaces 
and dust from dumping, grinding, screening and packing of the oxids. 

The sources of lead poisoning in the pottery trades are from the 
ingredients of which the glazes are partly composed, the least danger- 
ous glazes being those in which the lead is added at the beginning 
of their production and fused with the other ingredients into an 
insoluble disilicate, instead of adding it in a soluble and therefore 
poisonous form, later in the process. 

The painting and allied trades are the most widespread and 
important lead industries. Among the most dangerous branches of 
these industries are interior house painting, ship and carriage painting, 
because these involve dry sandpapering of white lead paint, which is 
the greatest source of lead dust in the painting trade. In ship paint- 
ing red lead is used and is generally dry sandpapered, or chipped off 
before a new coat is applied. 

In compounding rubber the litharge and the basic sulphate of lead 



218 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

are ground with crude rubber by warm cylinders and much dust is 
evolved. In wall paper mills and lithograph color shops minerals, 
some of which contain lead salts, are ground together in the dry state. 
Sommerfield believes that plumbism in the printers trade rarely 
appears as the acute form, but develops insiduously with few early 
diagnostic symptoms, being manifested only by general reduction in 
health and by disturbances of digestion. The factory physician 
examining printers periodically for occupational diseases must, there- 
fore, go over each case history thoroughly and make careful physical 
and blood examinations if he expects to diagnose the cases of plumbism 
in this trade. In corroboration of this opinion it is an interesting 
observation that in an intensive study of one hundred printers, taken 
at random from the trade in Chicago, in order to find the percentage 
presenting symptoms of occupational diseases, I found four with 
a history of occasional severe pains in the region of the cecum, but 
otherwise in fair health, who had been operated upon for supposed 
appendicitis and without any relief of symptoms subsequent to the 
operation. These, I believe, were quite probably mild cases of lead 
intoxication mistaken by the surgeon for chronic appendicitis. In 
the printing trade there has been a gradual replacement of the hand 
compositor who handles lead type and is exposed to dust arising 
from the type cases, by the type setting machine operator who, 
unless the machine is well hooded is exposed to the fumes arising 
from the molten metal. With this change in the method of handling 
type there is no reason to believe that lead intoxication has diminished 
in frequency. Beyer 1 believes that machine type setting increases 
it. Fumes from unhooded metal pots in the stereotyping and type 
casting rooms and the dust from the floor which has been found to 
contain as much as 14 per cent, lead are both dangerous to the printers. 2 

ZINC POISONING 

The chronic gastric, intestinal and nervous diseases found by the 
older writers occurring in zinc smelters which they regarded as due to 
chronic zinc poisoning are now accepted as certainly due to the lead 
always present in zinc and it is generally believed that there is no 
definite clinical condition which may be defined as chronic zinc or 
brass poisoning. 

Zinc ague, known also as brass founders' ague, zinc chills, smelter 
shakes, metal shakes and brazier's disease is a form of acute industrial 
zinc poisoning. This ague occurs exclusively in brass casters and 
braziers and not in zinc workers. Sigel and Lehman 3 have shown, 

1 "Die Volkswirthchaftliche und Sozial politsche Bedentung der Finfuhrung 
der Setzmachine im Buchdruckgewerbe, " p. 134. 

2 Oliver: Diseases of Occupation," p. 180. 

3 Arch. f. Hyg., 1910, p. 358. 



HEALTH HAZARDS IN OCCUPATIONS 219 

however, that it may be caused by burning pure zinc and inhaling 
the oxid therefrom. Lehman believes that the zinc oxid produces 
"proteid destruction" in the respiratory membranes with resorption 
of the destroyed cells into the system and that these dead proteids 
acting as toxalbumins produce the symptoms. This ague consists of 
an acute malaria like syndrome of a chill, sometimes accompanied 
by fever lasting one-half to three hours, terminating in profuse 
sweating and exhaustion. This chill appears an hour or so after 
inhaling zinc fumes usually in the form of brass or bronze fumes and 
generally affects those unaccustomed to such exposure. A temporary 
immunity is often developed after the attack. 

ARSENIC POISONING 

Soluble salts of arsenic act as an irritant to the skin causing pig- 
mentation and sometimes the so-called "arsenic pock," setting up 
eczema and ulceration. General poisoning may be caused by the in- 
gestion of salts of the metal or inhalation of arsenical fumes. Acute 
poisoning may result in death, while the effects of chronic poisoning 
are shown first upon the gastrointestinal organs and later upon the 
heart and nervous system. The first acute symptoms are anemia, 
nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea which is sometimes accompanied by 
severe abdominal cramps. 

In the chronic cases, nerve affections such as peripheral neuritis 
with paresthesia and anesthesia, sometimes accompanied with edema, 
are more frequent than complete paralysis. When paralysis occurs, 
however, it often affects mainly the lower extremities thus differing 
from plumbism. 

Excluding the cases due to arseniuretted hydrogen, the following 
table from the Report of the Chief Inspector of Factories, London, 
covering the years 1900-1913 inclusive, gives an estimate of the distri- 
bution of arsenical poison in various English trades with the frequency 
of occurrence. 

Industry Total cases 

Manufacture of emerald green 46 

Extraction of arsenic 8 

Manufacture of sheep dip .... 5 

Paint and color works 4 

Chemical works 3 

Smelting of metals (lead and copper) 3 

Sorting bird skins 

Wall paper manufacture 

Shot making 1 

Scraping paint off ships 

Tanning 1 

Unloading white arsenic 1 

Indefinite 

Total.. 86 



220 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

The number of cases reported to the Chief Inspector of Factories 
during the same period as resulting from arseniuretted hydrogen gas 
was thirty-three and these were found chiefly in chemical works but 
also in the galvanizing trades, bullion refining, bronzing of art metal, 
paper manufacture, and tin plate works. Such poisoning often ap- 
pears in industries where the working force and superintendent have 
no thought of the possibility of its occurrence. It is, however, rare. 
The symptoms generally set in a few hours after the inhalation of 
this garlicky smelling gas. Nausea is followed by repeated vomiting. 
Intense jaundice of the skin and conjunctiva then appears, and grave 
hemolysis occurs. 1 

Dr. Rogers reports that in America workers in the following in- 
dustries are exposed to arsenical poisoning: making of artificial 
flowers, manufacture of candles and wax ornaments, manufacture of 
japanned goods, manufacture of carpets, fancy book binding, pre- 
servation of wood, manufacture of gloves, and of sheep dip, electro- 
plating, lithographing and bronzing, manufacture of artificial leather, 
oil cloth, linoleum, cut glass, hat linings, beer, soaking of silk cocoons 
and enameling. He adds, "the majority of the workers are unaware 
of the poisonous nature of the material handled and where precautions 
are taken it is only because lead compounds are also used. " 

MERCURY POISONING 

The symptoms of mercurial poisoning depend on the rate of absorp- 
tion of the metal. It is possible that enough mercurial vapor may 
be inhaled in establishments where the working conditions are 
extremely bad to produce severe diarrhea due to acute mercuric 
chlorid or iodid poisoning. After this diarrhea is established it is 
accompanied by marked tenesmus and may become bloody in 
character. It is generally accompanied by vomiting. Renal symp- 
toms may develop and anuria supervene. 

Industrial mercurialism is often of the type which may be termed 
subacute and here the most prominent symptom is inflammation of 
the buccal cavity. There is at first only an increased flow of saliva, 
foul breath and disagreeable metallic taste in the mouth. Loosening 
of the gums from the teeth, pain on chewing and even ulceration of 
the cheeks and lips may follow. In the absence of a history of expo- 
sure to vapors of mercury or fumes of its compounds, this stomatitis 
is difficult to distinguish from that due to other causes, for instance, 
from carious teeth in which, however, the gingivitis is primarily lo- 
calized about such teeth. 

1 Second Report of the Factory Investigating Commission, 1913, Vol, ii, p. 
1161. 



HEALTH HAZARDS IN OCCUPATIONS 221 

In mercurialism more slowly acquired and of a more chronic form, 
while stomatitis may be present and intestinal attacks may occasion- 
ally occur, cachexia, general emaciation, muscular tremors, decrease 
of strength, and symptoms of nervous and mental derangement, such 
as erethism, are more conspicuous. The mercurial tremor when well 
developed is somewhat typical and consists of coarse contractions and 
jerks, often accompanied by a finer tremor. 

As metallic mercury gives off vapors even at ordinary tempera- 
tures, poisoning can occur in its recovery from the ore and in all 
processes hi which it is employed, such as silvering of mirrors (in which 
the nitrate of si ] ver and ammonia process is now replacing it), making 
of thermometers and barometers, incandescent electric bulbs in which 
a vacuum is produced by mercury pumps, e ectrical meters, manufac- 
ture of mercurial salts or explosives, derived from, fulminate of mercury, 
rubber, cosmetics and dyes, bronzing, and in "carotting" furs with 
the nitrate and making felt hats. 

PHOSPHOROUS POISONING 

The symptoms of industrial phosphorous poisoning are of the 
chronic type and result from absorption of white phosphorus or its 
fumes, phosphuretted hydrogen or fumes arising from heated phosphor 
bronze and ferrosilicon. 

"Phossy jaw" or so-called phosphorous necrosis is a striking result 
of industrial phosphorous poisoning which usually starts around a 
carious tooth. It begins essentially as an "ossifying periostitis" 
resulting later in the formation of abscesses, sloughing of the perios- 
teum and necrosis of the denuded bone. With this characteristic 
lesion of phosphorous poisoning, fragilitas ossium, anemia, indigestion, 
cachexia and bronchial catarrh may be associated. 

Workers generally develop phosphorous poisoning only after work- 
ing many years exposed to this hazard. 

The symptoms of the rapidly acting phosphoretted hydrogen 
poisoning appear immediately after it is inhaled; dyspnea, coughing, 
fainting spells, noises in the head and nausea develop quickly, and in 
some cases coma and death supervene. 

When phosphorus is produced from bones decomposed by sulphuric 
acid, poisonous fumes are evolved. In the distillation and purifica- 
tion of phosphorus, dangerous fumes both of phosphorus and phos- 
phoretted hydrogen arise. One of the triumphs of industrial hygiene 
is the prohibition of the production at the present day of phosphorous 
matches. Ferrosilicon is used in the manufacture of steel and phos- 
phor bronze in production of metals for use in manufacture of car- 
tridges and cannons. In manipulating both of these, phosphoretted 



222 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

hydrogen gas may escape. In the manufacture of acetylene gas, from 
calcium carbide, phosphoretted hydrogen is produced as an impurity. 

VOCATIONAL HYGIENE AND PREVENTION OF OCCUPATIONAL 

DISEASES 

The problem of eliminating diseases of occupation and preventing 
the enormous waste in human life and industrial efficiency due to their 
insidious action is a important as any facing the industrial world. 
This problem cannot be solved without the co-operation and concerted 
action of all concerned, the state, the employer, the employee, and the 
specially trained workers at their disposal, i.e., safety engineers, effi- 
ciency experts, heads of departments of human maintenance in indus- 
tries, factory inspectors and investigators, and medical men trained 
in the science of the early detection and treatment of these diseases. 

Just as experience and special investigation have demonstrated 
that industrial accidents represent an unnecessary expense in the con- 
duct of manufacturing enterprises and a preventable loss of working 
efficiency, so application of the principles of prevention of occupational 
diseases and protection of workers against them will, in the opinion 
of every man conversant with the loss of labor and productive effi- 
ciency due directly to these, gradually show on the books of the indus- 
tries, in actual profits and in savings of expense of operating, the sound 
business judgment of applying these principles. 

The conservation of the health, vitality, and industrial usefulness 
of wage earners is of concern to every person in a democratic nation. 
The protection of the worker and the prevention of occupational dis- 
eases and health hazards is necessarily a function of any government 
conducted "for the people." In the United States these problems 
can best be attacked through our legislative bodies, (1) by investiga- 
tion either by special committees or by permanent boards and com- 
missions, (2) by legislation, and (3) by administration and enforce- 
ment of such measures through^ special officers, and factory inspection 
departments, (4) by education of employer, employee, and the public 
in the dangers and avoidance of health hazards. All these measures 
are necessarily expensive. As an example, in the state of New York 
during 1912-13 the legislature appropriated $110,000 to the factory- 
investigating commission, which did not include the usual sustain- 
ing funds for the permanent departments of health and labor. 

Only after thorough investigation of the occupational diseases and 
health hazards specific to certain industries can rules for the preven- 
tion of health hazards and for proper industrial hygiene of employees 
be drafted. All provisions in England for factory acts relative to health 
hazards have followed the report of the Departmental Committee on 
Dangerous Trades which was actively engaged in investigation for 






HEALTH HAZARDS IN OCCUPATIONS 223 

several years. All revisions of these acts are now based on the findings 
of special investigations ordered by Parliament. The present statutes 
covering the reporting and prevention of, and compensation for occu- 
pational diseases in Illinois, New York, and a few other states, are the 
legislative results of the reports of Occupational Disease committees. 
About the year 1870 general interest in the discussion of a pro- 
ject for the establishment of some international organization for the 
protection of workers first began to appear. In 1873 the socialist 
party in France suggested the possibility of such a plan. Von Bis- 
mark was naturally opposed to the participation of Prussia in any 
type of international convention. During the next few years trade 
unions in England, France and Switzerland continued the discussion 
of the project and in March, 1890, the first international conference 
for the protection of workers was held. It has met regularly since 
that time in various countries. The study of methods of codifying 
the laws governing labor conditions, the collection and publishing of 
literature bearing on the protection of laborers, and the prevention 
of health hazards have occupied the attention of this body. The 
prevention of the use of white phosphorus in making matches in various 
countries has resulted directly from suggestions made by this conference. 
International agreements for the protection of workers are highly 
advisable on economic grounds, since if every nation makes its own 
restrictions, advantage in the worlds market is thereby granted to the 
nation whose manufacturers are allowed to produce articles by cheap, 
hazardous methods prohibited in other nations. Also, it is reasonable 
and just on humanitarian grounds that workers should be protected 
irrespective of race or nationality. 

FEDERAL LEGISLATION AND ADMINISTRATION 

The authority of our federal government in the interest of public 
as well as industrial health rests in the clause of the Constitution 
relating to the power of Congress over the operations of interstate 
and international commerce, and the clause relating to common 
welfare. By an act approved August 14, 1912, the United States 
Public Health Service "was authorized to study and investigate 
the diseases of man and the spread thereof," and to publish informa- 
tion to the public. On August 23, 1912, Congress authorized the 
appointment of a temporary "Commission on Industrial Relations" 
among whose duties is that of inquiring into matters relating to the 
health of employees. On April 9, 1912, Congress established the 
Children's Bureau which has among its functions the investigation of 
child labor in the industries. As a result of the recommendations 
of the International Associations and the investigations of the occur- 



224 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

rence of phosphorous poisoning 1 in the match industry in this country, 
by agents of the United States Bureau of Labor in 1900 and in 1909, 
and the American Association for Labor Legislation, Congress on April 
9, 1912, passed an act abolishing the use of phosphorous matches by 
laying a prohibitive tax upon them. 

With the entrance of our country into the world war and the sub- 
sequent increase in production of war materials under government 
contract, a great opportunity has been given to the federal govern- 
ment to supervise and control all health hazards in those industries 
under such government contracts. Protection of employees is 
essential to speeding up of production. Therefore, the federal govern- 
ment should include in every contract provisions for the protection 
of employees against all occupational conditions tending to destroy 
efficiency by disease or accident hazards. 

The functions of the United States Department of Labor are 
limited to the work of "investigation and study and diffusion of in- 
formation regarding the means of promoting the material, social, 
intellectual, and moral prosperity of the working men and women." 
It is quite within its scope therefore to study factory processes and 
conditions with a view to eliminating, restricting or safeguarding 
the use of poisonous and injurious materials, or to study lighting, 
ventilation, humidity, the disposal of dust and fumes, and the im- 
provement of the hygienic conditions of the working places. In 
the group of its reports relating to factory inspection and occupa- 
tional hygiene, are included articles in regard to the inspection of 
factories and workshops in this and in foreign countries. Detailed 
suggestions in regard to factory inspection and legislation, and the 
regulation of working conditions, especially in industries and occupa- 
tions involving special dangers, have been made the subject of particular 
attention. Special studies have also been made of the morbidity and 
mortality in certain dangerous occupations and of the dangers to 
employees who, in the course of their work, come in contact with 
poisonous materials. Under this head the most important work which 
has been done is the study of phosphorous poisoning in the match 
industry, of lead poisoning in the lead industries, and in the manu- 
facture of pottery, tiles, and porcelain enameled sanitary ware, and 
the recent studies in T. N. T. and other munition poisonings. In 
all these industries investigation has disclosed the existence of danger- 
ous conditions most of which may be entirely eliminated, or very 
greatly improved, without serious difficulty. All of these investiga- 
tions have strongly emphasized the fact that by a study of working 
conditions in the more dangerous and unhealthful occupations, the 

1 Phosphorous Poisoning in the Match Industry by John B. Andrews. Bulletin 
86, United States Department of Labor. 



HEALTH HAZARDS IN OCCUPATIONS 225 

best methods of prevention may be made available for use in those 
factories where, "because of ignorance or because of the indifference 
resulting from ignorance, dangerous conditions have been allowed to 
continue without any technical necessity and without any economic 
need." 1 

There are three principal legislative methods for the prevention of 
occupational disease: 

1. By prohibition. 

2. By regulation including inspection of employees and factories, 
licensing, notification of cases, and by special rules for employ- 
ment in special industries, hours of labor and rotation or variation 
of employment. 

3. By compensation and insurance. 

The method of prohibition may apply to (1) processes or substance 
used, or (2) certain classes of people who are restrained from partici- 
pating in dangerous trades. Laws have been enacted in many foreign 
countries, and in some of our states, by which children under a specified 
age or even all minors, and also women of certain ages, are prohibited 
from participating in any work which is considered dangerous or from 
working in any establishment where poisonous dusts or injurious gas or 
fumes are evolved. In America these prohibitive laws for women, in 
most states, relate only to employment in mines and saloons. Women 
are forbidden to work in mines in most of the mining states and in 
saloons in about sixteen states. In a very few states women are pro- 
hibited from the use of emery , polishing or buffing wheels where 
articles of iridium or of the baser metals are being manufactured. In 
New York and a few other states women are prohibited from night 
work. In Argentina, England, Germany, France, Italy and Holland 
women are prohibited more or less completely from work involving 
the use of lead. In America, however, although their peculiar sus- 
ceptibility has long been known, they are widely employed in potteries, 
usually in dipping the ware in lead glaze, decorating with lead colors, 
and cleaning or sweeping floors or tables where lead dust is present. 
In America, as is shown by careful investigation, the ratio of cases of 
lead poisoning among women employed in potteries is one in seven, 
while in Great Britain the ratio is one in sixty-four. 2 

In the case of lead prohibitory legislation has been enacted in 
several European countries to affect certain industries and processes. 
In 1908 Austria forbade the use of lead in all paints, colors, or 



Chas. H. : "The Relation of the U. S. Department of Labor to In- 
dustrial Hygiene." Fifteenth International Congress on Hygiene and Demo- 
graphy, Vol. i, Pt. ii, p. 714. 

2 Andrews, I. O. : The Protection and Promotion of the Health of Women Wage 
Earners in "Diseases of Occupation and Vocational Hygiene," p. 134. 
15 



226 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



cements used for interior work, while the Swiss Government prohibits 
its use in the form of white lead in all painting done under the 
authority of its executive departments. In 1909 France enacted 
legislation to be effective in July, 1914, forbidding use of white lead, 
of linseed oil mixed with lead, and of all products containing white 
lead, in all painting of any nature, either on the outside or inside 
of buildings. 

In textile mills, tuberculosis and other contagious diseases have 
been spread by employees sucking thread into shuttles and accordingly 
in 1911, Massachusetts prohibited the use of any form of shuttle which 
in threading required the employee to use his lips or mouth. 




FIG. 36. Helmet used to protect eyes and face of arc-welders from ultra-violet rays. 

(General Electric Co.) 

The second set of legislative methods for the prevention of 
occupational diseases and the promotion of health of workers, that 
of regulation, apply to a large group of occupations and processes 
where injurious materials or conditions are present but where the ill 
effects on the employee's health are less definite. This group includes 
all those occupations where the workers are exposed to the harmful 
action of extremes of temperature, excessive humidity, insufficient, 



HEALTH HAZARDS IN OCCUPATIONS 227 

poorly regulated or distributed light, impure air, overcrowding, 
exposure to infectious diseases, dust and fumes, excessive speed, 
extreme strain or fatigue. While these and many other working con- 
ditions produce a marked effect upon the health of working people and 
render them more susceptible to such diseases as rheumatism, tuber- 
culosis, anemia, pneumonia, bronchitis and other diseases of the respira- 
tory tract, functional and nervous disorders, eye diseases and orthopedic 
derangements, yet it is often difficult to designate them specifically as 
due to occupational causes since conditions outside the work may play 
a part in their production. There are, however, many diseases 
unquestionably due to industrial hygienic conditions or poisons which 
can best be controlled by careful governmental regulation. 

The control of working conditions in the industries by the govern- 
ment is accomplished by means of the enactment of specific laws 
or statutes or through the agency of rules or orders issued by adminis- 
trative authorities. In America legislation is unfortunately often 
couched in terms too general or ambiguous and so easily miscon- 
strued by the courts and almost always too laxly enforced. Many 
times the bill carries no definite provision for sufficient, well paid, 
competent officers to enforce its regulations. 

Provisions for competent inspection of dangerous trades must in- 
clude not only the requirement of frequent visits by inspectors to 
industrial establishments in which poisonous gases, fumes and faulty 
working conditions are found, but also the delegation to such inspectors 
of the power to enforce observance of regulations. 

Compulsory reporting of some of the occupational diseases and 
cases of industrial poisoning is being included in practically all 
statutes covering this subject which are being passed by the legislatures 
of the industrial states. Unless the data supplied by such reports 
is carefully tabulated the extent of protection needed and the results 
and success in the prevention of disease by such measures as are 
being applied cannot even be estimated. Such reporting of cases 
must necessarily devolve upon physicians since, because of their 
training, they are the only class capable of recognizing maladies due 
to occupational causes. Among physicians men especially trained 
in occupational disease detection are infinitely more valuable for such 
work than the average general practitioner because many of the 
symptoms of occupational diseases have but recently been recognized 
and the existence of these diseases in many trade processes is only 
now being discovered by men specially interested in the subject. 
It is a new field. The teaching of the intimate relation of occupation 
to disease is not emphasized in the average medical school curriculum. 
In Illinois, Missouri, New Jersey, Ohio and Pennsylvania the laws 
require all employees engaged in certain occupations carrying a 



228 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

high health hazard to be examined at least once a month for the 
detection of any ill health or disease resulting from their employment. 

In most of the states, requiring notification of these diseases, they 
are reported to the state board of health, while in a few to the state 
department of labor. In order that such reports may be of 
definite value to the department in which they are filed, they must 
be uniform and complete enough to permit of study and comparison 
in order that future legislation governing the health of workers 
may be based upon evidence deduced from them. They should show 
the nature of the symptoms of the existing disease, the duration, 
time of onset, prodromes, age, sex and previous health of the worker, 
a full account not only of the specific work and materials concerned 
with the patients' employment but also the general nature of the 
employees' hygienic surroundings should be included. The value of 
such reports will be greatly enhanced by the adoption of a uniform 
record for the use of all states, which will be of great aid in securing 
uniform legislation on this subj ect. Through the efforts of the American 
Association of Industrial Physicians and Surgeons it is hoped that such 
a uniform history record may be voluntarily adopted by all physicians 
and investigators. 

In the United States the power to regulate and control working 
conditions except as they affect foreign or interstate commerce 
directly rests with the individual states based upon their "police 
power" 1 and the "authority to secure the public welfare." 

Laws requiring the reporting of occupational diseases are all of 
recent origin. Most of the bills passed in the states have been copies 
or modifications of the standard bill suggested bythe American Associa- 
tion for Labor Legislation. In 1911 California, Connecticut, Illi- 
nois, Michigan, New York and Wisconsin passed laws requiring notifi- 
cation of occupational diseases. . Maryland and New Jersey enacted 
such legislation in 1912; Maine, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Missouri, 
New Hampshire, Ohio, and Pennsylvania in 1913; and Rhode Island 
in 1915. The Missouri law is the most comprehensive of these: 
employees engaged in manufacture in which antimony, arsenic, brass, 
copper, lead, mercury, phosphorus, zinc, their alloys or salts or any 
poisonous chemicals, minerals, acids, fumes, vapors, gases or other 
substances are generated or handled by employees in harmful quanti- 
ties or under harmful conditions, are required to be examined at least 
once a month by a physician to ascertain whether there exists in such 
employees any disease due or incident to the character of the work 
in which they are engaged. The examining physicians are within 
twenty-four hours to make a report to the state board of health in 
triplicate upon blanks furnished by the state. If disease incident to 
1 Freud, E. : " Police Power," pp. 3-7. 



HEALTH HAZARDS IN OCCUPATIONS 229 

occupation is found, -the secretary of the state board of health is to 
send one copy to the state factory inspector and one to the superintend- 
ent of the factory in which the employee is supposed to have contracted 
his ailment. 

We can best illustrate methods of legislation covering occupational 
health hazards in America by reference to recently enacted statutes 
in a few of the industrial states. 

Illinois. "The Health Safety and Comfort Act" covers the regu- 
lations to secure adequate ventilation both artificial and natural, 
work rooms and proper toilet facilities for both sexes, the disposal of 
noxious fumes, gases, and vapors, proper regulation of temperature 
in workshops and seats for women. Another statute deals with the use 
of blowers on metal polishing and grinding machinery. In July, 1911, 
the "Occupational Disease Act" was passed requiring the installation 
by employers of certain standard appliances for the prevention of 
occupational diseases especially among employees exposed to poison- 
ing by the fumes of lead or other metals in such processes as the 
manufacture of brass or smelting of lead and zinc. These provisions 
were adopted as a result of the investigations and report of the Illinois 
Commission on Occupational Diseases. 

In this state the duty of the enforcement of these laws and prose- 
cutions under them devolves upon the chief factory inspector and his 
staff. The penalty either for violating the law or obstructing the in- 
spectors is a fine of $10 to $50 for the first offense, and $25 
to $200 for later offenses. On the discovery of the violation of 
the law the inspector is to notify the manager. It is further required 
that the essential text of this law in various languages be posted in all 
establishments covered by the statute. Under the "Health Safety 
and Comfort Act" and the "Occupational Diseases Act," physicians 
and dentists are employed by the factory inspector to make daily 
investigations and personal inspections of plants. Some research 
has also been done by the staff as to the effect of certain metallic poi- 
sons on animals. Provision is made for routine monthly examination 
of all workers exposed to the danger of poisoning by metallic dusts 
or fumes, by physicians paid by the employer, with immediate reports 
to the state board of health, who in turn notifies the department of fac- 
tory inspection of any cases of occupational disease found. An em- 
ployee, or his family, has the right of action for damages up to 
$10,000 if he be affected by metallic poisoning in an industry where 
employers have not fulfilled the requirements of the law as to pro- 
tective measures and examinations. 

Michigan. Here the Governor is authorized to appoint a com- 
missioner of labor for two years and he in turn may appoint factory 
inspectors and assistants. It is the duty of this commissioner to report 



230 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

on the "moral and sanitary conditions of the laboring classes and the 
productive industries of the state" (Act 185, Public Acts of 1909 
(amended 1911)) and to inspect all working places. The hours of 
labor for women and children, and employment of these in certain 
occupations is restricted; provision is made for the installation of fans 
for dust removal; toilets and lavatories are required. There are spe- 
cial requirements for seats for women, factory ventilation, sanitary 
regulation of mines and of work in tenement houses. Complaints 
of neglect of the law are to be made to justices of the peace or magis- 
trates. Provision is made for the reporting by the local boards of 
health of contagious and infectious diseases to the factory inspector 
of the commissioner of labor. 

Missouri. As was mentioned above one of the most comprehensive 
statutes in the United States providing for reporting and recording 
cases of occupational diseases is in effect here. In June, 1913, the first 
"Occupational Disease Law" was put in force. By the provisions 
of this law it is the duty of all licensed physicians to report such cases 
as come under the act to the State Board of Health in duplicate, one 
copy being sent to the manager of the industry employing the afflicted 
workman and one to the factory inspector's office. Provision is also 
made for hygienic supervision of work rooms, special work clothing to 
be worn by employees and separate eating places in dangerous trades, 
proper drinking water and drinking fountains. The proper measures 
for inspection and enforcement of these regulations and prosecution 
of violators by the state factory inspector as well as a requirement 
for the posting of notices of the provisions of the law are included. 

Maryland. In 1912 1 a state department of health was established. 
The statute in this state defines and describes occupational diseases 
and requires the reporting of cases found by physicians to the state 
board of health. This body is empowered to call upon local boards of 
health and health officers for aid in inspections and the enforcement of 
the law. A system of warning notices is required to be posted by 
employers. 

New York. 2 The commissioner of labor appointed by the gov- 
ernor by and with the advice and consent of the senate, for a term of 
office of four years, has supervision of the department of labor. He 
appoints all officers and clerks of this department. One of the three 
bureaus in the department is that of factory inspection which is comprised 
of a chief factory inspector and staff including one medical inspector of 
factories. This medical inspector makes yearly reports. These have 
contained studies of different industries in New York for the detec- 

1 Ch. 163, Law of 1912. 

2 New York State Department of Labor Ann. Rep. of Commissioner of "Labor 
1911-1912. Labor Laws of U. S., p. 905 (Acts of 1907). 



HEALTH HAZARDS IN OCCUPATIONS 231 

tion of occupational diseases. Hygienic exhibitions for public instruc- 
tion have been prepared by the bureau, and recommendations made for 
better methods of ventilation of shops and removal of dust, fumes, 
gas and vapors. The work of medical inspection in this state is of 
course greatly handicapped by its limited size. 

Ohio. In March, 1913, legislation was enacted requiring physicians 
to report within twenty-four hours from the time of attending such 
patients, cases of occupational diseases contracted as a result of em- 
ployment, or due to poisoning from lead, phosphorus, arsenic, brass, 
wood alcohol, mercury, or their compounds. Considerable latitude is 
allowed by the board of health as to the forms of reports and extent 
of information demanded. Since May, 1913, Dr. E. M. Hayhurst, 
who was one of the medical investigators of the Illinois Commission 
on Occupational Diseases, has been in charge of the work conducting 
a "survey of occupational diseases" for the state board of health pre- 
liminary to the drafting recommendations for future legislation and 
administration. In the board of health of Ohio are vested powers of 
supervision of all matters relating to the preservation of the life and 
health of the people. "It may make special or standing orders of 
regulations for preventing the spread of contagious or infectious dis- 
eases and for such other sanitary matters as it deems best 

to control by general rule." Violation of such regulations are to be 
prosecuted in the courts by customary procedures. 

Pennsylvania. By an act of June 1, 1913, the commissioner of 
labor and industry is appointed by the governor with consent of the 
senate. Provision is made for a chief medical inspector with a staff 
of physicians as assistants as well as medical, chemical, and civil 
engineers, and also a division of industrial hygiene. This department 
has done excellent work under Commissioner Jackson, assistant com- 
missioner Palmer, and medical director Dr. Francis Patterson. 

Massachusetts. In June, 1912, an act was passed to establish a 
state board of labor and industries. Prior to that industrial hygiene 
had been under the control of the state board of health. The new 
board consists of one employer, one laborer, one physician and one 
woman. This board appoints a commissioner of labor. In this board 
is vested the power to investigate labor conditions, hold hearings, 
seek expert advice, and prosecute violators of the law, and the duties 
formerly exercised by the police and health department in relation to 
the enforcement of laws governing hygiene in the industries. This 
new board has health inspectors who are required to be medical men, 
while medical men are also employed by the department of health but 
have, however, no authority in enforcing laws regarding factory 
conditions. 

Wisconsin. The state industrial commission is empowered to make 



232 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

effective the state law which expresses in general the duty of employers 
to protect life, health and safety of employees and the duty of the latter 
to co-operate in carrying out this purpose. It has the authority to 
call in experts in hygiene and engineering to assist in the establishment 
of definite standards and rules. In the drafting of such regulations 
employees and employers have a right to be heard. This method of 
adopting legislation is slow and depends for its efficiency entirely upon 
the type of men appointed to the commission. 

The above are sufficient examples to show the trend of legislation 
in respect to industrial hygiene in the United States. 

MUNICIPAL HEALTH BOARDS AND COMMISSIONERS 

In America the functions of city health departments have been 
directed toward the establishment of public hygienic conditions in 
general and not in the industries specifically or in particular. Rarely 
have municipal authorities attempted to study or regulate working 
conditions in the industries. 1 It is interesting to note that in 1910 in 
New York in one group of trades, that of the garment workers, a joint 
board of sanitary control comprised of representative for the employers, 
workers, and the public has been organized to establish standards of 
hygienic conditions and enforce them. 

LICENSING 

The system of licensing dangerous occupations gives the govern- 
ment an additional means of enforcing factory legislation and inspec- 
tion. By this system special requirements must be fulfilled and laws 
governing construction and equipment must be adhered to before 
dangerous industries can be licensed. It is always easier to prevent 
than cure faulty hygienic conditions and this system of licensing after 
thorough inspection of plans and specifications in vogue in foreign coun- 
tries is probably destined to be extended to the dangerous trades by 
the states or Federal Government of the United States. 

SPECIAL PREVENTIVE MEASURES FOR WORKERS 

The practical measures which may be used in the protection of work- 
ers against trade risks involve limitations and restrictions of three 
sorts, (1) upon the methods of handling the dangerous materials, (2) 
upon the period of exposure to the harmful action of these materials, 
and (3) upon the persons exposed. These are seldom applied sepa- 
rately and it is feasible to consider the methods of application of these 
limitations as they can be applied to the processes involving the use 

1 Wald, Lillian D.: 15th International Congress on Hygiene and Demography, 
Vol. iii, Pt. ii, p. 881. 



HEALTH HAZARDS IN OCCUPATIONS 233 

of various dangerous materials. It is however obvious that in a 
consideration of the third group it is desirable to select for employment 
in a dangerous trade persons possessing powers of resistance and 
exclude those who, because of predisposition or lowered resistance, are 
especially susceptible to trade poisoning. Such susceptibility varies 
in individuals and, as discussed above in the case of lead, in the two 
sexes. 

In a rough way such a selection naturally occurs without supervision 
since those susceptible are obliged by repeated attacks or increasing 
disability to give up the particularly harmful work. From the stand- 
point of industrial economy as well as humanitarian considerations 
such a method of selection is intolerable. While, unfortunately, 
exact tests for susceptibility applicable to applicants for work by 
the examining physicians are at present lacking, it is still true that 
industrial physicians may acquire an aptitude for the general grouping 
of applicants for work, picking the robust for heavier labor and 
selecting for the slightly defective or poorly muscled various less 
strenuous occupations which will not put a special strain on the 
weakest part, e.g., the myopic eye, the defective heart valve, the 
broken arches, or the inguinal canal protected by inadequate muscular 
development. The physician engaged in this work is governed 
by considerations, difficult to formulate, in the choice of, or exclusion 
from certain employments, as for the anemic, the worker of poor lung 
power, or small vital capacity. As his experience in such work grows, 
he becomes a specialized employee most valuable to the plant. 

Further, workers engaged in industries involving a high health risk 
or who possess special limitations in physical strength as do women 
and children should not be kept working too long at a time. This 
can be regulated either by shortening the hours of labor or by changes 
or variations in the type of labor. In 1912 our Federal Government 
set a precedent for an important standard by enacting legislation 
forbidding contractors on federal work to keep men at work longer 
than eight hours in one day. A few states have since limited the 
working day to eight hours while some have restricted work to six 
days a week. If such restrictions are important for labor in general 
they are doubly urgent for dangerous trades. 

An example of the limitation of tedious work for the adolescent 
is that of Berne where no girl under the age of seventeen may be 
employed at a tredle machine for more than three consecutive hours 
a day. In regard to night work nine states have legislation prohibiting, 
under certain conditions, women and children for such work. Con- 
necticut, Massachusetts, New York, Vermont and most European 
countries have enacted legislation prohibiting women from working 
for fixed periods before and after confinement. Unfortunately 



234 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

restrictions barring especially susceptible individuals from the dan- 
gers of industrial poisoning are not yet widely adopted. 

Periodical medical examinations such as are required in Illinois, 
Missouri, New Jersey, Ohio and Pennsylvania in the occupations 
where high health hazards exist are most valuable in discovering and 
weeding out the physically unfit and the victims of industrial poison- 
ings before these symptoms present a permanently disabling or handi- 
capping stage of these disorders. Such work presupposes special 
training and experience in the physician employed in inspection. 

Further, in some occupations involving the chance, of develop- 
ment of sudden acute poisoning, there should be a trained staff 
of fellow employees competent to recognize the earliest symptoms of 
poisoning and to render first aid, and these should be equipped with appli- 
ances adequate for this purpose. In addition to special appliances 
needed in special trades, attention is directed to the use of oxygen 
apparatus as a means of life saving. For rescue work in poisonous 
atmospheres, gas masks or breathing helmets must be readily available 
and medical assistance be easily accessible. 

The co-operation of the worker in the early detection and examina- 
tion for signs of intoxications is indispensable. He must be taught the 
aim and purpose of preventive measures and the inestimable importance 
of his own scrupulous care in enforcing all means directed toward his 
defense as well as the untoward results of the neglect of such considera- 
tions. Among the various methods for teaching employees are lectures 
and class room instruction by the factory or union physician, the 
sanitary engineer or other members of departments or human main- 
tenance; and concise instructions, in the form of notices or illustrated 
placards, handed the employees, placed in their pay envelopes, or posted 
up in workrooms. Often the most perspicuous type of "welfare 
advertising" is that which develops the generalized from the specific 
by citing an actual case of an employee known by the rest of the work- 
ing force. For example, John Doe is described as a case of "gassing" 
followed by an analysis of the methods which should be employed to 
prevent such occurrences. 

Of preventive measures applied to the handling of poisonous 
material those are of prime importance which protect the worker 
as far as possible from coming in contact with the poison. This 
is attained (1) by wearing suitable clothing, (2) by the use of respi- 
rators or protectors against inhaling poisonous materials, and (3) 
by careful cleanliness, especially before partaking of food. Overalls 
over ordinary clothing are not sufficient protection. The ordinary 
clothing must be taken off before the commencement of the day's 
work, in a separate dressing room apart from the workroom, with 
adequate arrangements for bathing thoroughly before the ordinary 



HEALTH HAZARDS IN OCCUPATIONS 



235 



clothes are resumed at night. Working suits of smooth, washable 
material must be put on, to be taken off again before the midday meal, 
and before leaving work at night. Where direct handling of poi- 
sonous substance is unavoidable, impervious gloves may have to be 
worn but this depends upon the possibility of skin absorption of 
the particular poison involved. 

Protection of the respiratory organs is difficult to provide for and 
to enforce. Respirators to be worn over the nose and mouth, or 




TIG. 37. Illustrating the use of respirators and proper shop clothing as protection 
against occupational disease. Munition factory in France. 

head helmets for use where fumes or dusts are more abundant, are 
varied in construction. The pressure of such apparatus on the face 
becomes tiresome and where they must be worn employees must be 
selected who can become accustomed to their use as many men never 
can. 

Regular rinsing of the mouths (especially before meals and on 
leaving work) of those who work where poisonous substances give 
off dust or fumes, is of utmost importance. Employees handling 
extremely poisonous chemicals should be required to bathe before 
leaving work at night and to wash the hands and face thoroughly 
before the midday meal. The shower bath is the most convenient and 
tune saving form of bathing. The taking of meals and the use of 
tobacco in workrooms must be prohibited. 

The maintenance of a robust health and fit physical condition 



236 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

is one of the most effective means of protecting the worker against 
the health hazards peculiar to the industries. It is continually demon- 
strated in chronic industrial poisoning that the ill fed, poorly nourished, 
asthenic, or anemic worker is the first affected and the earliest to 
succumb. The problem of the prohibition of the use of alcohol 
to men exposed to industrial poisoning is especially pertinent in the 
case of plumbism in which the deleterious effects of its use have 
been most carefully studied. 

The substitution of non-poisonous for the poisonous materials and 
of the safe for the dangerous processes is the joint problem of the phy- 
sician and the safety engineer. The following are examples of some of 
these suggested substitutions: "wet" methods (watering white lead 
chambers, grinding pulp lead, polishing, scraping, and finishing painted 
work with oil, damping of smelting mixtures) in place of "dry" meth- 
ods where dust is evolved; the substitution of the safety for the phos- 
phorous match ; replacing the tin and mercury amalgum by the nitrate 
of silver and ammonia process in silvering mirrors; electroplating 
instead of coating objects with mercury and volatilizing the excess; 
enameling and painting with leadless instead of lead enamels and 
paints; the use of air pumps in place of mercury pumps in producing 
the vacuum in incandescent electric lamps. 

Next to personal cleanliness the most important consideration 
in the prevention of industrial poisoning, and of primary importance 
in the prevention of ill health caused by dust is the cleanliness of the 
workroom and purity of the air. Working places should be light and 
lofty with floors constructed of impervious material easily cleaned, 
and walls lime washed or painted with white oil paint. Angles and 
corners should be rounded. 

The necessity of maintaining the purity of the air of the work- 
room requires as a minimum of air space per person 10 to 15 cubic 
meters and this should be exceeded wherever possible. In modern 
soundly constructed workrooms the "natural" ventilation from 
windows, doors and the porosity of building material will not supply 
the necessary volume of air quickly enough. By such means the air 
is rarely renewed in less than one to two hours. In workrooms, 
for more than a very few persons, artificial ventilation becomes im- 
perative. This is effected by special openings or ducts arranged in 
the room so that either (1) fresh air is propelled into the room, or (2) 
by exhaust ventilation, air is extracted from the room. The agencies 
which may be employed to produce a draft in ventilating ducts are 
(1) by utilizing the action of the wind, in which case a cowl must be 
fitted to the exit of the ventilating duct; (2) by heating apparatus; 
(3) by heating the air in the exhaust ducts as for instance when they 
are lead into chimneys or furnace flues; (4) by the use of fans median- 



HEALTH HAZARDS IN OCCUPATIONS 237 

I 

ically employed. Where there is any considerable amount of dust, 
or the danger of poisoning is present, by far the most expedient venti- 
lation is by power fans by which exact regulation of the purity of the 
air can be calculated and assured irrespective of differences of temp- 
erature, velocity of the wind, etc. These are of two types, the pro- 
pellor and the centrifugal. The first type has curved blades set at 
right angles in the duct and acts upon the column of air by suction, 
moving it in the direction of the action of the fan. A low pressure 
draft, that is one of a pressure generally less than 15 mm. of water, 
is produced; the air traveling at a slow speed. These fans are especially 
suitable for general ventilation of rooms while the centrifugal type, 
in which the air is drawn out by rapidly moving straight blades 
through openings in the periphery of its casing, traveling at a high speed 
and producing a pressure not lower than 120 mm., is especially applicable 
to the local exhaustion of dust or fumes from the point where they are 
produced. , 

SPECIAL REGULATIONS FOR THE CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES 

The Sulphuric Acid Industry. Hazards of two kinds are encoun- 
tered here: (1) those arising from the escape of acid gases and (2) 
those endangering the men entering chambers, towers, and con- 
tainers for the purpose of cleaning these. For hygienic as well as 
economic reasons the whole chamber system should be impervious 
to gases. The escape of fumes from the pyrites furnace is accom- 
plished by maintaining a negative pressure inside by fans. Cinders 
from the furnaces must be cooled in a covered place. Rambousek 
says that the acid content of the final gases can be reduced to 0.1 
vol. per cent, with a maximum of 0.26 per cent, of sulphur dioxid. 
Cleaning out chambers and towers, if they must be entered, should 
be done by men equipped with breathing apparatus. One German 
factory has the following regulations. 

"The deposit of the floor of wagons or tanks shall be removed 
either by flushing with water without entering the tank itself, or if 
the tank be entered the deposit is to be scooped out without addition 
of water or dilute soda solution. 

"Flushing out shall only be done after the workmen have got out. 

"Workmen are to be warned every time cleaning is undertaken 
that poisonous gases are developed when the deposit on the floor is 
diluted. 

"Acid eggs, further, are to be provided with a waste pipe and man- 
hole to enable cleaning to be done from outside." 

Hydrochloric Acid, Salt Cake, and Soda Industries. The general 
principles applicable to the avoidance of acid fumes must be followed. 



238 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

Proper construction prevents the escape of fumes from the salt cake 
pan and reverberating furnaces. The following regulations are in 
substance those which have been in effect in England for many 
years. 

The salt cake pan must not be charged when overheated. 

Sulphuric acid shall be added only after all the salt has been 
charged and the door shut. 

If hydrochloric acid fumes escape at the door when the Glover 
acid flows in, the flow must be interrupted. 

All doors must be closed while work is in progress. 

Definite times shall be fixed for withdrawal of the salt cake in order 
to try and ensure that it be not still fuming, but should this be the case, 
cold sulphate of soda shall be sprinkled over it. 

A slight negative pressure should be maintained in the furnace 
by means of the insertion .of a fan in the gas conduit to prevent the 
escape of fumes. The fuming salt cake is best cooled in ventilated 
receptacles. 

Bleaching Powder, Chlorin and Its Compounds. The same prin- 
ciples as to imperviousness of apparatus and maintenance of negative 
pressure as described above apply here. At the end of the system 
the last traces of ohlorin gas should be absorbed by a tower of quick- 
lime or series of bleach chambers. Production of chlorin gas elec- 
trolytically is the least dangerous method. Mechanical handling 
of bleaching powder is far more hygienic than hand labor. 

Nitric Acid and Explosives. Complete imperviousness and 
condensation of gases is feasible and should be insisted upon. Val- 
entines method under a partial vacuum is the best from a hygienic 
viewpoint. Great care in handling and packing the acid is required 
and warnings against remaining in rooms where it has been spilled 
should be posted. The rules mentioned above, cleaning wagons and 
receptacles for sulphuric acid, apply to nitric also. The rules of 
the Massachusetts State Board of Health for acid manufacture cover 
the necessary hygienic precautions admirably. 

In the nitrating processes in explosive manufacture, the apparatus 
must be hermetically sealed and the agitation be done by compressed 
air or mechanical means and any fumes developed exhausted and 
condensed. The gases evolved from nitroglycerin are especially 
dangerous. The attention of the workers must be drawn to this 
and to the danger of contact of this chemical with the skin or of 
wearing clothing contaminated with it away from the factory. In 
producing gun cotton all the work should be done by machinery 
and the fumes exhausted. Fulminate of mercury production re- 
quires exhaust ventilation. 

Trinitrotoluene (TNT) Poisoning.' The possibility of poisoning 



HEALTH HAZAEDS IN OCCUPATIONS 239 

from TNT has been recognized for several years but as a result of the 
war it has forged to the front as one of the most dangerous occupational 
poisonings connected with munition work. The poisonous material 
in TNT is composed chiefly of one of three isomeric trinitrotoluenes, 
called the symmetrical group, because the three NO 2 groups are 
symmetrically arranged on the toluene nucleus. The commercial 
variety contains also insignificant quantities of the other two isomers 
and a variable percentage of mono- and dinitrotoluene, together with 
small amounts of nitrated methanes and other substances. 

Dr. Alice Hamilton 1 gives an excellent review of the causation 
and prevention of this type of poisoning, based on the work done hi 
England by Dr. Benjamin Moore and his assistants. The following 
conclusions are cited: 

" 1. TNT is absorbed through the skin, and that is the only channel 
of absorption which is of any practical importance. 

" 2. Consequently elaborate systems of exhaust ventilation to carry 
off fumes are not necessary, for there is no case on record of poisoning 
from TNT fumes alone. The wearing of respirators is not advised, 
since the amount of dust that can be breathed in is too small to be 
harmful. Dust is dangerous only as it falls on the skin or clothes or 
'on surfaces that must be handled. 

"3. When TNT is swallowed deliberately by experimenters, the 
effect is as slight as when the same amount is inhaled. 

"4. TNT readily makes its way through the skin and is absorbed, 
setting up in susceptible persons a slowly increasing intoxication. 

"5. Therefore the prevention of TNT poisoning depends on two 
factors first, strict cleanliness of the factory premises, so that there 
will be as little actual contact with TNT as possible, and second, close 
watch of workers to eliminate that minority which has a low resistance 
to TNT. Since, however, it is impossible entirely to protect the skin 
from contact with TNT in manufacturing and in shell-filling opera- 
tions, the importance of the second factor becomes evident. In 
spite of the best efforts to do away with all skin contamination there 
will be inevitably some contact with the poison, and though the 
majority of workers will be able to tolerate the small amount they 
absorb, a certain amount will be unable to resist its effects, and it is 
this group of workmen that must be discovered and removed before 
actual injury has taken place. 

" In a word, the prevention of TNT poisoning depends on cleanli- 
ness of the work place and ever watchful medical supervision." 

TNT acts on the blood, changing the hemoglobin into a mixture 
of "TVO-hemoglobin and methemoglobin. " Thus the altered hemo- 

1 Industrial Poisons and Diseases. Monthly Review. United States Depart- 
ment of Labor, May, 1918. 



240 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

globin cannot function as oxygen carriers, giving the symptoms of air 
hunger. This is the earliest stage of TNT illness and the symptoms 
complained of are breathlessness, tightening in throat and chest, dizzi- 
ness, drowsiness, nausea, and abdominal pains. Cyanosis frequently 
develops in this stage and may be very slight or extremely marked. 
Marked cyanosis may appear while the patient yet feels quite well. 
A marked aplastic anemia originally develops, showing a decrease in 
the red cells to 1,500,000, or even lower. The hemoglobin is reduced 
to 30 or 40 per cent. The picture is that of a pernicious anemia. 

The early cases of TNT sickness present almost a characteristic 
appearance. " The face is pale, lacking in expression. The lips have 
an ashen blue color and the same color is seen on the gums. " There 
may be a faint trace of yellow in the whites of the eyes, the rest of 
the skin showing no jaundice. When these are observed the physi- 
cian should question the worker and he is then likely to be told of 
abdominal pains, dizziness, sleepiness, breathlessness, headache or 
nausea, and dark colored urine. But this history may or may not be 
given, according to whether the worker feels like resting or keeping 
on with work. Dr. Moore of England states that the physician should 
patrol the plant at frequent intervals, familiarizing himself with the 
workers as they appear normally, and thus become able to detect those 
slight changes which show to the experienced eye the beginning of ill 
health. 

In the serious form TNT poisoning causes a toxic jaundice. Dr. 
Moore regards both jaundice and fatal anemia as secondary results of 
the same action of the poison as cause symptoms of cyanosis. When 
the jaundice begins to appear it is quite evident that the bone marrow 
and liver tissue have been attacked and the patient has reached a 
dangerous stage of poisoning. This is usually presented by signs of 
cyanosis and if these cases are removed from the hazardous occupation 
in the early stages the accumulated poison in the body will soon be 
eliminated, but if he is allowed to continue at work within a short time 
such serious pathological changes appear that the cases may prove 
fatal. 

Prevention of TNT poisoning is best summed up by Dr. Alice 
Hamilton as follows: 

"The knowledge that the main absorption occurs through the skin 
of the hands indicates three lines of action, namely: (1) keeping clean 
all that the hands can touch; (2) protecting the hands; (3) detecting 
those hands which are permeable and keeping the owners away from 
TNT work." 

Clothing must be designed to protect the body from the TNT dust. 
For women workers the bloomers with the legs extending down over 
high shoes or boots and tied tightly at the bottom should replace skirts. 



HEALTH HAZARDS IN OCCUPATIONS 241 

Low shoes should never be worn. The working clothes must be kept 
apart from the home clothing. Washing of the hands and face with a 
solvent, such as a mixture of the oxylenes, has been advocated. Again, 
applying protective varnishes, such as the "casein varnish" to the 
skin at the beginning of the day's work and removing it at the end of 
the day, has given excellent results. Among the best preventive 
measures are the constant medical supervision of the workers in order 
to early detect and remove the susceptible persons, and the plan 




FIG. 38. A TNT factory in England. 

of alteration of labor whereby TNT workers work part time at the 
hazardous occupation and part time at other work, preferably out 
of doors. Considerable objection to the alteration method has been 
raised because of the increased number of persons exposed to TNT 
poisoning, and the decreased efficiency which results from lack of 
skill on the part of many of the force. 

Treatment consists of removing these patients at once from the 
hazardous occupation, freeing the hands, hair, clothing, and all other 
things which come in contact with the person from the TNT dust. It 
is always preferable to treat such patients in a hospital. These 
early day treatments are the most important and it is during this 

16 



242 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

stage that the poison can be eliminated. Fresh air, fresh vegetables, 
soda bicarbonate and other alkalies are indicated, for there is always 
an acidosis present. The bowels must be kept open by purgatives 
and the kidneys flushed by normal salt solutions per rectum or other 
saline mixtures. No patient, once subject to TNT poisoning, should 
be allowed to remain at this work. 

Fertilizers and Artificial Manures. All grinding of phosphorite 
and superphosphates must be done automatically in closed apparatus. 
Hydrochloric acid is evolved in dissolving the phosphorite with sul- 
phuric acid and it must be exhausted by acid proof fans. The German 
Imperial Regulations for all manipulations of basic slag which follow 
furnish an admirable model: 

1. Workrooms in which basic slag is crushed, ground, or stored 
shall be roomy and so arranged as to ensure adequate change of air. 
Floors shall be of impervious material allowing of easy removal of dust. 

2. Preliminary breaking of the slag by hand shall not be done in 
the grinding rooms, but either in the open air or in open sheds. 

3. Slag crushers, grinding mills, and -other apparatus shall be so 
arranged as to prevent escape of dust as far as possible into the work- 
rooms. They shall be provided with exhaust ventilation and means 
for collecting the dust if this cannot be done in the absence of dust. 

4. Arrangements shall be made whereby barrows conveying 
material to the grinding mills shall be emptied directly into partially 
hooded hoppers provided with exhaust ventilation so as to prevent 
escape of dust into the workrooms. 

5. The casing and joints of the grinding mills, ducts, dust col- 
lectors and sieves shall be airtight; if leaks are noticed they must 
be repaired forthwith. 

6. Ducts, dust collectors and sieves shall be so arranged as to 
enable periodical cleansing to be undertaken from the outside. 

7. Repairs of the plant mentioned in Par. 5 in which workers 
are exposed to inhalation of slag dust shall be intrusted by the occupier 
only to such workers as wear respirators supplied for the purpose 
or other means of protecting mouth and nostrils such as wet sponges, 
handkerchiefs, etc. 

8. Emptying of slag powder from the grinding mills and dust 
collectors and transference to the store rooms shall only be done in 
accordance with special regulations designed to minimize dust. 

9. Filling slag powder into sacks from the outlets of the mills, 
elevating and discharging it into receptacles shall only be done under 
efficient exhaust ventilation. 

10. Sacks in which the powder is transported and piled in heaps 
shall be of a certain defined strength to be increased in the case of 
sacks to be piled in heaps more than 3^ meters in height. Special 






HEALTH HAZARDS IN OCCUPATIONS 243 

rooms separated from other workrooms shall be provided for storage of 
slag powder in sacks. Only the sacks representing the previous 
day's production may be stored in the grinding rooms. 

Basic slag in powder and not in sacks shall be kept in special 
storage rooms shut off entirely from other workrooms. No person 
shall enter such storage rooms when they are being filled or emptied. 
Discharging the contents of the sacks into them shall be done under 
exhaust ventilation. 

11. The floors of the workrooms described in Par. 1 shall be 
cleaned before the commencement of each shift or in an interval 
during each shift. No person except those engaged in cleaning shall 
be present during the operation. If cleaning is effected by sweeping, 
the occupier shall require the persons doing it to wear the respirators 
provided or other protection for the mouth and nose. 

12. The occupier shall not permit the workers to bring spirits into 
the factory. 

13. A lavatory and cloak room and, separated from them and in a 
part of the building free from dust, a meal room shall be provided. 
These rooms shall be kept clean, free from dust, and be heated during 
the winter. 

In the lavatory and the cloak room, water, soap and towels shall 
be provided and adequate arrangement shall be made for keeping 
the clothing taken off before commencing work. The occupier shall 
give the persons employed opportunity to take a warm bath daily 
before leaving work in a bath room erected inside the factory and heated 
during the winter. 

14. No woman or male young person under eighteen years of 
age shall work or remain in a room into which basic slag is brought. 

Persons under eighteen years of age shall not be employed in 
beating sacks which have contained basic slag. 

15. No person employed in breaking or grinding, emptying, pack- 
ing, or storing basic slag, shall work more than ten hours daily. 

There shall be intervals during working hours amounting in the 
aggregate to two hours, one of them lasting at least an hour. If 
duration of employment daily is limited to seven hours with never 
longer than four hours work without an interval, only one interval of 
at least one hour is required. 

16. For work mentioned in Par. 15, no person shall be employed 
without a certificate from an approved surgeon stating that he is free 
of disease of the lungs and not alcoholic. The occupier shall place the 
supervision of the health of the workers under a surgeon who shall 
examine them at least once a month for signs of disease of the res- 
piratory organs and for alcoholism. Workers engaged in the operations 
mentioned in Par. 15 shall be suspended from employment when the 



244 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

surgeon suspects such illness or alcoholism. Those showing marked 
susceptibility to the effect of basic slag dust shall be permanently 
suspended. 

17. A health register shall be kept in which shall be entered the 
precise employment, duration of work, and state of health of the persons 
employed. 

18. The occupier shall obtain a guarantee from the workers that no 
rJcohol or food shall be taken into the workrooms. 

Fumes given off in the preparation of hydrofluoric acid must be 
collected in leaden coolers and that which escapes requires to be absorbed 
by a water spray in the towers. The apparatus must be impervious 
and kept under a slight negative pressure. 

Chromium Compounds/ In Austria, Germ any and England suitable 
provisions are in force for the prevention of chrome ulceration and other 
affections caused by contact with chromates in such occupations as 
those in bichrqmate works, chemical factories, dyeing, tanning, and 
wood staining, calico and wall paper printing, painting, etc. These 
provisions require that dust producing processes must be carried 
on away from the general workrooms; chromates must be crushed 
in hermetically sealed apparatus as far as possible; working clothes, 
caps, and respirators must be supplied to employees. They must 
also be provided with soap, towels, nail brushes, bathing facilities, 
cloak rooms and lunch rooms. Every employee must furnish 
a certificate stating that he has no skin disease or open wounds. 
Daily examinations of the hands and arms is enjoined. Monthly 
medical examinations are also required and any employee presenting 
signs of chrome poisoning or ulceration is suspended until free from 
this. Rules for personal hygiene are posted; smearing the skin with 
oil or vaseline is recommended. The use of impervious gloves is 
necessary in some processes. By the English law foremen are re- 
quired to report to their managers the names of workers failing to 
comply with the rules for personal hygiene. 

Petroleum and Benzin. Crude petroleum and the fractions first 
distilled from it affect the skin injuriously. Wetting of the skin 
should be avoided and careful cleansing enjoined. Those exposed 
to the gases escaping from oil wells should be provided with "smoke 
helmets." Petroleum tanks should be thoroughly aired before they 
are cleaned and they should be entered only by workers equipped with 
bathing apparatus. Apparatus such as used in the rubber industry 
and in chemical cleaning establishments containing petroleum or 
benzin should be airtight. The prevention of poisoning from fumes 
of benzol or benzin lies in adequate ventilation so that the fumes 
are so diluted as to be harmless even to those who have a special 
susceptibility to their action. Artificial ventilation with air exhaust 






HEALTH HAZARDS IN OCCUPATIONS 245 

preferably with a down draft (since these fumes are heavy) must be 
installed where concentrated fumes are evolved. Specially suscepti- 
ble persons must be excluded from any industries involving the exten- 
sive use of benzin. The substitution of carbon tetrachlorid or other 
less poisonous substances for benzin can be effected in many processes. 

Phosphorus. Since the use of white phosphorus in making 
matches has been prohibited in the United States since July 1, 1913, 
no detailed description of hygienic regulations in this trade are neces- 
sary. The danger of poisoning exists also in the extraction of phos- 
phorus, in the production of coal tar dyes, and the making of 
phosphor bronze. The number of workers exposed in these processes 
is very small. The ordinary precautions previously described governing 
the handling of toxic substances should be applied here. 

Carbon Bisulphid. England forbids work longer than five hours a 
day in rooms where carbon bisulphid is being used in vulcanizing 
rubber, and no food may be eaten there. Employees must be exam- 
ined monthly and records kept of such examinations. In Germany 1 
since March 1, 1902, more exacting methods are in force with provision 
for special ventilators, devices to prevent the escape of fumes, cloak 
room and washing facilities, and monthly examination. Provisions 
for preventive methods by the various rubber works in America vary 
greatly, some being very thorough. The same care should prevail also 
in the other industries in which carbon bisulphid is used, e.g., in 
preparation of cellulose for artificial silk and in cleaning establish- 
ments. In various extracting processes and in vulcanizing, from 
a hygienic standpoint, benzin, chlorid of sulphur or carbon tetra- 
chlorid are much to be preferred to carbon bisulphid. 

Production of Tar, Coke, and Gas. Imperviousness of the work- 
ing system of the illuminating gas factory especially of the retorts and 
correct regulation of pressure is absolutely necessary to prevent 
needless loss of life through gas poisoning. Special precautions 
are furthermore necessary in operations with gas purifying materials 
which so often contain cyanogen. These consist in carrying off 
injurious gases by suitable ventilating apparatus and their condensa- 
tion without discharging them into the atmosphere so as to be a 
menace to health in the vicinity. " Quenching" the coke also removes 
obnoxious fumes. The same regulations in regard to rendering all 
apparatus airtight and sufficiency of exhaust, apply to coke ovens. 
They also apply to the distillation of washing oils. 

Power Gas Works. 2 The following regulations from the Aus- 
trian Ministerial Decree of December 2, 1903, cover the important 
considerations. 

1 Rambousek: "Industrial Poisoning," p. 271. 
2 Rambousek: "Industrial Poisoning," p. 277. 



246 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

In mixed gas installations (Dowson, water gas) of the older sys- 
tem, the way in which the gas is produced causes the whole apparatus 
and pipes to be under slight negative pressure, because the steam 
required for the process must be blown into the generator. In these 
works, therefore, a small special steam boiler is required, also a gas 
receiver to store the gas. 

In more modern suction generator gas installations the piston is 
used to suck in steam and air as well as the gases arising in the 
generator and to draw them into the motor cylinder. Thus the whole 
system is kept in a condition of slight negative pressure during the 
process. While the suction generator gas system is working, only so 
much gas is produced as the motor uses for the time being, so that with 
this system there is no greater store of gas than is requisite. 

In such an installation the following rules should be borne in mind : 

1. All the apparatus (gas pipes, valves, etc.) must be constructed 
and maintained in a completely impervious condition. Any water 
seals especially which may be in use must receive attention. 

2. Precautions must be taken to prevent the gases from the gener- 
ator passing into the coolers and purifiers when the engine is at rest. 

3. Care is to be taken when the apparatus is at rest to prevent 
any possible subsequent escape of gas into the room where the appa- 
ratus is installed. 

4. The return of explosive gas out of the gas engine into the gas 
pipe by failure to ignite or other accident, must be made impossible. 

5. The apparatus through which the generator is charged must 
possess a tightly fitting double valve to prevent escape of gas into 
the room during charging. 

6. The pipes for conducting away the unpleasantly smelling 
bituminous constituents in the water mixed with sulphuretted hydro- 
gen from the scrubbers must not communicate with the workroom. 

7. Precautions must be taken to minimize the danger during the 
cleaning of the generator (removal of ashes and slag) . 

8. All stop-cocks and valves are to be so arranged that their posi- 
tion at any time (open or shut) is clearly visible from the outside. 

9. Purifiers with a capacity greater than 2 cubic meters must be 
provided with applicances which make possible thorough removal 
of gas before they are opened. 

10. The gas washing and cleaning apparatus and pipes are to be 
fitted with gauges indicating the pressure existing in them at any 
moment. 

11. When a suction gas plant is first installed and also at those 
times when there is no gas in the pipes and plant between the gen- 
erator and the engine, gas must be blown in until all air is expelled 
before the engine is set going. 



HEALTH HAZARDS IN OCCUPATIONS 247 

12. During the cleaning of apparatus and pipes which, when in 
action, contain gas, the rooms must be thoroughly ventilated. 

13. Rooms in which suction gas plant is installed must be of such 
a height that all the plant and its connections can be easily reached 
for cleaning, etc., and be capable of such free ventilation as to render 
impossible an accumulation of gas. 

14. These rooms must be separated from living rooms by a wall 
without any openings in it. Emanations also must be prevented as 
far as possible from entering into living or working rooms situated 
over the gas engine. 

15. Erections of apparatus for generating and purifying suction 
gas in cellars shall only be allowed if specially effective ventilation is 
provided by natural or mechanical means. 

Acetylene Gas. The Prussian Ministerial Decree of November 
2, 1897, establishes the following regulations regarding workers in 
acetylene gas installations: 

1. Preparation and condensation of acetylene on the one hand, 
and liquefaction on the other, must be carried on in separate 
buildings. 

2. If the pressure employed for condensation of the gas exceeds 
eight atmospheres, this work must take place in a room set apart for 
the purpose. 

3. Rooms in which acetylene is prepared, condensed, or liquefied 
shall not be used as, nor in direct connection with, living rooms. 

.They must be well lighted and ventilated. 

4. The carbide must be kept in closed watertight vessels, so as 
to ensure perfect dryness and only such quantities shall be taken out 
as are needed. The vessels must be kept in dry, light, well ventilated 
rooms; cellar rooms may not be used for storage purposes. 

5. Crushing of carbid must be done with the greatest possible 
avoidance of dust. Workers are to be provided with respirators 
and goggles. 

6. Acetylene gasometers must be fitted up in the open air or in 
a well ventilated room separated from the gas generator. Every gas 
receiver must have a water gauge showing the pressure in the receiver. 

7. Between the gasometer and receiver a gas purifier must be pro- 
vided so as to remove impurities (phosphoretted hydrogen, arseni- 
uretted hydrogen, carbon bisulphid, ammonia, etc.) 

8. Condensation of acetylene gas at a pressure exceeding ten 
atmospheres shall only be done in combination with cooling. 

Ammonia.- In the production of ammonia and ammonium salts 
the combination of ammoniacal vapors with sulphuric acid gives 
rise to dangerous gases among them some containing sulphuretted 
hydrogen cyanogen compounds. The same rules as to imperviousness 



248 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

and exhaust ventilation as in other chemical processes above mentioned 
should be enforced. 

Tar Products. Tar products from coal tar distillation necessitate 
the same precautions. Only cold pitch and asphalt may be stored 
in open vats, all cooling products being enclosed in "receivers." 
The injurious gases from the stills containing ammonia and sulphur 
compounds should be either led into the furnace or subjected to 
purification by. lime or oxid of iron for the recovery of sulphur or 
ammonia. The following directions are applied since 1904 in England 
to the distillation of tar for the production of naphtha light oil, creosote 
oil and pitch. 

1. During the process of cleaning, every tar still should be com- 
pletely isolated from adjoining tar stills either by disconnecting the 
pipe leading from the swan neck to the condenser worm, or by discon- 
necting the waste pipe fixed to the worm end or receiver. Blank 
flanges should be inserted between the disconnections. In addition, 
the pit discharge pipe or cock at the bottom of the still should be 
disconnected. 

2. Every tar still should be ventilated and allowed to cool before 
persons are allowed to enter. 

3. Every tar still should be inspected by the foreman or other 
responsible person before any workman is allowed to enter. 

4. The inspecting foreman on first entering any tar stiU or tank, 
and all persons employed in tar stills or tanks in which there are no 
cross stays or obstructions likely to cause entanglement, should, 
be provided with a belt securely fastened around the body with a rope 
attached, the free end being left with two men outside whose sole 
duty should be to watch and draw out any person appearing to be 
affected by gas. The belt and rope should be adjusted and worn in 
such a manner that the wearer can be drawn up head foremost and 
through the manhole and not across it. 

5. A bottle of compressed oxygen, with mouthpiece, should be 
kept at all times ready for use; and printed instructions as to the use 
of this bottle, and the method to be employed for resuscitation by 
means of artificial respiration should be kept constantly affixed. 
A draft of such instructions is appended. 

6. A supply of suitable chemical respirators properly charged 
and in good condition should be kept ready for use in case of emergency 
arising from sulphuretted hydrogen or certain poisonous gases. (Gran- 
ules of carbon saturated with a solution of caustic soda readily absorb 
sulphuretted hydrogen and may be used for charging respirators.) 

7. The use of naked lights should be strictly prohibited in any 
portion of the works where gas of an inflammable nature is liable to 
be given off. 



HEALTH HAZARDS IN OCCUPATIONS 249 

8. Each still should be provided with a proper safety valve which 
should at all times be kept in efficient working condition. 

Gassing. Symptoms. The first symptoms are giddiness, weakness 
in the legs, and palpitation of the heart. If a man feels these he should 
at once move into fresh warm air, when he will quickly recover if 
slightly affected. He should avoid exposure to cold. He should 
not walk home too soon after recovery; any exertion is harmful. 

First Aid. Remove the patient into fresh warm air. Send for the 
oxygen apparatus. Send for a doctor. Begin artificial breathing at 
once if the patient is insensible and continue it at least for half an 
hour, or until natural breathing returns. Give oxygen at the same 
time and continue it after natural breathing returns. 

Artificial Breathing (Schafer Method). Place the patient face 
downward. Kneel at the side of the patient or astride of him and 
place your hands flat in the small of his back with thumbs nearly 
touching, and the fingers spread out on each side of the body over the 
lowest ribs. 

Then promote artificial breathing by leaning forward over the 
patient and, without violence, produce a firm, steady, downward 
pressure. Next release all pressure by swinging your body backward 
without lifting your hands from the patient. 

Repeat this pressure and relaxation of pressure without any marked 
pause between the movements, about fifteen times a minute, until 
breathing is established. 

Use of Oxygen Cylinder. Open the valve gradually by tapping the 
lever key (which must first be extended to its full length) with the 
wrist until the oxygen flows in a gentle stream from the mouthpiece 
into the patient's mouth. The lips should not be closed around the 
mouthpiece. The nostrils should be closed during breathing in, 
and opened during breathing out. 

If the teeth are set, close the lips and one nostril. Let the conical 
end of the mouthpiece slightly enter the other nostril during breathing 
in, and remove it for breathing out. 

Coal Tar Colors and Organic Dye-stuffs. Much has been done in 
the last few years to clear up the misconceptions as to the dangers 
attending the production of anilin and other coal tar colors. The 
raw products themselves, benzin, toluidin, etc., produce the greatest 
number of poisonings. The manufacture of the intermediate groups 1 
especially nitro compounds is also dangerous. The subsidiary sub- 
stances, especially chlorin and other acids are injurious. In purify- 
ing the raw material, e.g., benzin, distillation and cooling apparatus 

1 Grandhomme: "Weyls Handb. d. Arbeiterkrankh., " Jena, 1908 p. 104. 
Curschmann: "Actes deu II Congress Internat des Maladies Profession elles 
Brussels," 1910. 



250 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

must be impervious. Dangerous solvents such as pyridin must be 
used in closed chambers. In the nitrating operations poisonous 
nitrous fumes escape, while arseniuretted hydrogen escapes when re- 
duction is accomplished by means of tin and sulphur dioxid or sulphu- 
retted hydrogen in sulphonating unless- the apparatus is tightly closed. 
These injurious fumes should be burned, neutralized, or absorbed 
and disposed of. The contact of workers with the poisonous anilin 
is difficult to avoid entirely and the general rules for personal hygiene 
for chemical workers must be scrupulously obeyed. 

The dangers arising from poisonous dusts in dye works have been 
mentioned under injurious dusts. 



When furnaces leak because the walls are not airtight and proper 
negative pressure is not maintained injurious gases, principally carbon 
monoxid, sulphur dioxid and hydrocarbons escape. Entering flues 
for cleaning or repairing should be done only by those equipped with 
breathing apparatus. In roasting operations furnaces are now largely 
worked mechanically. The use of chlorin compounds in extraction 
of metals such as silver or copper from ores causes the evolution of 
chlorin and hydrochloric fumes which should be absorbed in special 
towers while metallic fumes should be dealt with by special condensers 
and ventilators. 

Iron. The use of a cupola bell opened at intervals mechanically 
when charging is necessary, allows the poisonous but valuable gases 
from the blast furnace to pour out, be conducted away, and utilized. 
The gases, the most dangerous of which is perhaps sulphuretted hydro- 
gen, which escapes during tapping and slag running should be collected 
by hoods and carried off. In the blowing operation by the Bessemer 
process the dark smoke arising out of the converter should be drawn 
off by flues. 

In the 1 transport of ferrosilicon the following police regulations of 
the Prussian Minister of Trade (September 29, 1910) are valuable: 

1. The ferrosilicon must be packed in watertight cases of wood or 
metal. 

2. On the cases must be inscribed legibly and indelibly "Ferro- 
silicon. To be kept dry. With care. " 

3. It must be delivered dry and in dry cases. 

4. The cases must be stored in airy places (on the boat) protected 
from the wet. 

Dr. Copeman 1 as a result of his inquiry in the cases of poisoning 

J On the Nature, Uses, and Manufacture of Ferrosilicon, 1909. 






HEALTH HAZARDS IN OCCUPATIONS 251 

on the steamer Aston has suggested the following regulations which 
should be made international: 

1 . Ferrosilicon should not be sent out from the works immediately 
after manufacture, but after being broken up into pieces of the size 
in which it is usually sold, should be stored under cover, but exposed 
to the air as completely as possible, for at least a month before being 
dispatched from the works. 

2. Manufacturers should be required to mark in bold letters each 
barrel or other parcel of ferrosilicon with the name and percentage 
grade (certified by chemical analysis) of the material; the name of 
the works where it is produced; the date of manufacture and date of 
dispatch. 

3. The carriage of ferrosilieon on vessels carrying passengers should 
be prohibited. When carried on cargo boats it should, if circumstances 
permit, be stored on deck. If it be considered necessary to store it 
elsewhere the place of storage should be capable of being adequately 
ventilated, and such place of storage should be cut off by airtight 
bulkheads from the quarters occupied by the crew of the vessel. 

4. This regulation should apply to the transport of ferrosilicon 
on river or canal barges as well as on sea-going vessels. 

5. Storage places at docks or at works where ferrosilicon is used 
should have provision for free access of air, and should be situated 
at a distance from workrooms, mess rooms, offices, etc. 

Lead. All measures both personal and general which have been 
mentioned in the general discussion of the prevention of industrial 
poisoning should be put into practice in the protection of the worker 
against the most widespread of all slow industrial poisonings. Per- 
sonal hygiene is as important as proper factory conditions. Workers 
in lead should be carefully selected under medical supervision and all 
should be excluded who present signs of any disease which, associated 
with plumbism, would be especially dangerous, such as all forms of 
tuberculosis, alcoholism, epilepsy, hysteria or any other tendency 
to mental diseases, " rheumatism, " or diseases of the kidney or cardio- 
vascular apparatus. Women and young persons should be excluded 
from such work. Alternation of employment and short working 
hours are especially beneficial to workers exposed to the danger of 
plumbism. 

The early diagnosis of lead poisoning is best accomplished by 
periodic examination of employees and on the appearance of the first 
signs they should be transferred to some other work. 

Suitable nourishing food and avoidance of alcohol are of prime 
importance. 

In a number of cases substitution is impractical but wherever 
possible non-poisonous or less poisonous substitutes should be used in- 



252 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

stead of lead; for example, the substitution of carborundum for lead 
discs in polishing precious stones, leadless glaze in potteries in place 
of lead glaze, beds free of lead in various industries instead of lead 
beds. The attempts to find suitable substitutes for lead colors, 
particularly white lead, have thus far not been rewarded with entire 
success. 

Attempts have been made to introduce soaps containing alkalin 
sulphids into the lead industries for use in the lavatories for the purpose 
of converting the soluble lead on the worker's skin into the compara- 
tively insoluble black lead sulphid. 

The type of regulation by the governments of continental European 
countries is well exemplified by the following: 

DECREE OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE FRENCH REPUBLIC (APRIL 23, 1908) 
RELATING TO CERTAIN INDUSTRIES IN WHICH LEAD IS USED 

1. In the lead industries hereinafter mentioned, viz.: smelting, 
cupellation of argentiferous lead, manufacture of accumulators, 
glass-making, manufacture and use of lead enamels, manufacture of 
pottery, decoration of porcelain or faience, ceramic chromo-litho- 
graphy, manufacture of lead alloys, oxids, salts and colors, employers, 
directors or managers are required, apart from the general measures 
prescribed by the Decree of the 29th of November, 1904, to take 
special measures for protection and health as set forth in the follow- 
ing sections. 

2. Lead melting pots shall be erected in an airy place separated 
from the other workrooms. 

Hood or other means for the effectual removal of fumes shall be 
provided : 

(a) Over the openings for the run of lead and slag in lead 

smelting. 

(6) Before the furnace doors in the manufacture of lead oxids. 
(c) Above the pots for melting lead or its alloys, in the other 

industries enumerated in section 1. 

3. All work with oxids and other compounds of lead capable of 
producing dust shall be done as far as possible when in a damp con- 
dition. 

When this work cannot be done in the presence of water or other 
liquid, it shall be carried out by mechanical means, in covered airtight 
apparatus. 

If it is impossible to conform to the requirements of either of the 
first two paragraphs of this section, the work shall be done under a 
strong draught so arranged that the harmful products may be inter- 
cepted by apparatus suitably placed. 



HEALTH HAZARDS IN OCCUPATIONS 253 

Finally, if none of these systems is possible the workmen shall 
be supplied with respirators. 

4. Oxids and other compounds of lead, whether dry or damp, in 
suspension or solution, shall not be handled with the bare hands. The 
employer shall at his own expense provide the workers in these opera- 
tions with either gloves made of impervious material such as india 
rubber, or suitable appliances, and shall cause them to be kept in good 
repair and frequently cleaned. 

5. Tables on which these products are handled shall be covered 
with some impervious material, kept in a perfectly watertight con- 
dition. 

The same requirement applies to the floors of the workrooms which 
shall also be kept damp. 

The floors shall be slightly sloped toward a watertight receptacle 
for collecting the lead substances which are washed down. 

The work shall be so arranged that there shall be no splashing. 
The tables, floors and walls shall be washed at least once a week. 

6. Without prejudice to the requirements of Section 3, the grind- 
ing and mixing of lead products, and the use of them in dusting shall 
be effected in special places with active ventilation. 

If the materials cannot be damped, the workers shall be provided 
with respirators. 

7. Pottery shall not be dipped with bare hands in solutions con- 
taining litharge, red lead, galena or white lead in suspension. 

8. No food or drink shall be brought into the works. 

9. Employers shall, at their own expense, provide and maintain 
for the use of the workers, overalls or clothing for use during work 
only, in addition to gloves and respirators. 

10. In a part of the building separated from the workrooms, there 
shall be provided for the use of the workers exposed to lead dust or 
fumes, a cloak room and lavatory kept in good order, provided with 
basins or taps in sufficient number, a plentiful supply of water, soap 
and a towel for each worker replaced at least once a week. 

The cloak room shall be provided with cupboards or drawers with 
locks or padlocks the ordinary clothing being kept apart from the 
working clothes. 

11. A warm bath or shower bath shall be provided each week for 
the workers exposed to lead dust or fumes. 

A warm bath or shower bath shall be provided every day after 
work, for each worker employed, either in emptying or cleaning the 
condensing chambers and flues, in repairing furnaces in lead works, 
in carrying lead corrosions from the bed in white lead factories, in 
packing red lead, in grinding lead enamels and in dry dusting. 

12. Employers are required to exhibit, in a conspicuous position 



254 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

in the works, regulations imposing on the workers the following; 
obligations : 

To use the appliances, gloves, respirators, and working clothes 
placed at their disposal. 

Not to bring into the works either food or drink. 

To pay great care before each meal, to the cleanliness of the mouth, 
nose and hands. 

To take the baths weekly or daily as provided in Section 11. 

13. The Minister of Labor may, by order made with the advk 
of the Consultative Committee for Arts and Manufactures, exempt 
establishment for the specified period from all parts of the reqi 
ments of Regs. 2, 5 and 6 in any case where it is found that observ- 
ance of these requirements is practically impossible, and that the 
health and safety of the workers are assured by conditions at least 
equivalent to those prescribed in the present Order. 

14. Subject to additional postponements which may be granted 
by the Minister in pursuance of Section 6 of the Act of 12th June, 
1893 (as amended by that of llth July, 1903), the delay required for 
the carrying out of the alternations necessitated by the present decree 
is limited to one year from the date of its publication. 

15. The Ministry of Labor is charged with the administration of 
this Decree. 

This Decree was supplemented by further noteworthy additions 
requiring medical supervision in lead industries as follows: 

DECREE OF DECEMBER 28, 1909, ORGANIZING MEDICAL SERVICE IN 
INDUSTRIES EXPOSING THE WORKERS TO RISK OF LEAD POISONING 

1. In premises in which the processes enumerated in Regula- 
tion 1 of the Decree of April 23, 1908, are carried on medical attendance 
as prescribed below shall be provided. 

2. A surgeon appointed by the occupier shall examine the workers 
and enter the results of examination required in Regulations 3 and 4. 
The examinations shall be paid for by the occupier. 

3. No person shall be employed in work mentioned in Regulation 1 
of the Decree of April 23, 1908, without a certificate from the surgeon 
stating that he is free from symptoms of lead poisoning and of ill- 
ness which might render him specially susceptible. 

4. No worker shall remain at the same employment unless the 
certificate is renewed one month after commencement of employment 
and subsequently at quarterly intervals. 

In addition to the periodical examination, the occupier shall give 
an order on the surgeon to every workman declaring himself to be ill 
from his employment or who desires to undergo medical examination. 






HEALTH HAZARDS IN OCCUPATIONS 255 

5. A special Register open to the Factory Inspector shall be kept 
containing the following particulars of each worker: 

(1) Dates and duration of absence on account of illness of any 
kind. 

(2) Dates of medical certificates for such illness, the notes 
made by the surgeon and the name of. the surgeon fur- 
nishing them. 

(3) Instructions given by the appointed surgeon in pursuance 
of Regulations 3 and 4 above. 

Lead Smelting. All flues, furnaces and other apparatus in this 
industry should be as airtight as possible and efficient exhaust ven- 
tilation should be provided wherever lead dust or fumes are gener- 
ated. Lead smelting even under the most propitious circumstances 
is a dangerous occupation and personal hygiene among workers must 
be encouraged in every way possible. The following instructions for 
smelters are issued by the Institute for Industrial Hygiene of Frank- 
furt. 

How does lead poisoning arise? 

The danger of lead poisoning in lead, spelter and other smelting 
premises can be avoided if due care is observed. 

Lead poisoning occurs when lead enters the system. This takes 
place by breathing dust and fumes containing lead, or by eating and 
drinking, smoking, snuff taking and tobacco chewing if food or tobacco 
is taken into the mouth with dirty hands and dirty face and beard. 

No one is immune from lead. Lead accumulates in the body of 
careless persons and he who is not sick to-day can be so to-morrow or 
after weeks or months. 

How can plumbism be avoided? 

All smelters must observe cleanliness. In this respect they should 
see to the following points: 

1 . It is to their interest to see that the exhaust ventilation is kept 
in order and that the special rules or regulation are exactly followed. 
Further, special clothing should be worn, the mouth and nose should 
be covered, and the floors sprinkled. 

2. It is especially important that in intervals and at the close 
of work the mouth, face, beard, and hands should be carefully cleaned. 
Food should not be eaten or the premises left without putting on fresh 
clothes and thoroughly washing or, still better, bathing. When drink- 
ing, the edge of the drinking glass should not be fingered with dirty 
hands. Especially important is it that the teeth should be cleaned 
and the mouth washed out. 

3. During work smoking, snuff taking, and tobacco chewing, 
which invariably convey lead into the mouth, should be given up, 
as it is impossible to prevent the hands getting contaminated with lead. 



256 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

Lighting the pipe with glowing lead ashes is in the highest degree 
dangerous from the risk of inhaling lead fume. The body must be 
strengthened to withstand the action of lead. Moderation in drinking, 
especially avoidance of spirits, should be observed. Alcoholic subjects 
succumb to lead poisoning much more readily than the temperate. 

Food should be abundant and rich in fat, for example, milk and 
bacon. Thick soups are excellent before work. Work should never 
be begun on an empty stomach. And lastly, as much fresh air as pos- 
sible. Walking athletics, work in the garden and field will help to 
keep off many an attack. If anyone thinks that he is suffering 
from lead poisoning he should at once in his own and in his family's 
interest see the doctor of his sick club. 

The following rules are noteworthy: 

GERMAN IMPERIAL REGULATIONS FOR LEAD SMELTING WORKS DATED 

JUNE 16, 1905 

GENERAL REGULATIONS 

1. Workrooms in which lead ores are roasted, sintered, or smelted, 
pig lead produced and submitted to further treatment, distillation of 
rich lead (bullion cupellation) litharge, red lead, or other oxids of 
lead prepared, ground or sieved, stored or packed, or zinc skimmings 
distilled, shall be roomy, high, and so arranged that a sufficient con- 
stant exchange of air takes place. They shall be provided with a 
level and solid floor to allow of easy removal of dust by a moist method. 

The walls shall be smooth so as to prevent collection of dust; 
they shall be either washed down or lime washed at least once a 
year. 

Provided that this shall not apply in the case of calcining sheds with 
woodened walls. 

2. An abundant supply of good drinking water, protected against 
contamination from dust, sh'all be provided for the workers on the 
furnaces and smelting pots, and in such close proximity to them that 
they can obtain it at any time without having to go into the open 
air. 

Arrangements for sprinkling the floors shall be provided near the 
furnaces. . The floors of the rooms mentioned in paragraph 1 shall 
be wet cleansed at least once daily. 

3. Prepared (i.e., concentrated) lead ores and leady smelting 
products, unless moist, shall not be crushed except in an apparatus 
so arranged as to prevent as far as possible penetration of dust into 
the workrooms. 

Provided that this shall not apply to calcined material from 
converters. 

Sacks in which lead ores and materials containing lead have been 



HEALTH HAZARDS IN OCCUPATIONS 257 

packed shall not be freed from dust and cleaned except in a dust proof 
apparatus or by washing. 

4. Materials containing lead for charging the blast furnaces, 
if they are oxids and form dust, shall be damped before they are mixed 
with other materials, stocked on the feeding floor, or charged into the 
blast furnaces. 

5. Dust, gases, and lead fumes, escaping from furnaces, converters, 
tapping spouts, tapping pots, drain sump, slag pots, slag cars, or 
slag channels, and from glowing residues taken from the furnaces, 
shall be caught as near as possible to the point of origin and removed 
harmlessly. 

Dust collecting chambers, flues, as well as furnaces which have 
been "blown down," shall not be entered by workmen unless suffi- 
ciently cooled and ventilated. 

SPECIAL REGULATIONS FOR SUCH PARTS OF A FACTORY WHERE LEAD 
COLORS ARE PREPARED 

6. In grinding, sieving and packing dry leady materials, in charg- 
ing, and empying litharge and red lead furnaces, in collecting the red 
lead and similar operations in which leady dust is developed, exhaust 
arrangement shall be provided for preventing the entrance of dust 
into the workrooms. 

7. Apparatus producing leady dust if their construction and man- 
ner of use does not effectually prevent evolution of dust, shall have 
all cracks protected by thick layers of felt or woolen material, or 
by similar means, so as to prevent the entrance of dust in to the 
workrooms. 

Apparatus of this character shall be provided with arrangements 
for preventing compression of air in them. They shall only be opened 
when the dust in them shall have completely settled, and they are 
absolutely cool. 

SPECIAL ARRANGEMENTS IN FORCE FOR THE DISTILLATION OF ZINC SKIMMINGS 

8. Proposed new furnaces for the distillation of zinc skimmings 
(for which according to Paragraphs 16 and 25 of the Industrial Code 
a special permission is required) shall be so arranged that (1) there 
shall be at least a clear space of ten feet in front of the charging 
opening; (2) any passages under the distillation rooms shall be 
roomy, at least 11^ feet high in the center, light and airy. 

9. Dust, gases, and fumes arising from the zinc skimmings dis- 
tillation furnaces shall be collected as near as possible to the point 
of origin, and carried outside the smelting room. 

The entrance of gases from the fires into the smelting room shall 
be prevented as far as possible by suitable arrangements for drawing 
them off. 

17 



258 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

10. Sieving and packing of by-products obtained in the distillation 
of zinc skimmings (poussie"re, flue dust) shall not be done except in 
a special room separated from the other workrooms, and complying 
with the requirements of Regulation 1. 

Sieving shall only be done in an apparatus so constructed that 
dust shall not escape. 

EMPLOYMENT OF WORKERS 

11. Women and young persons shall not be employed or permitted 
in rooms mentioned in Regulation 1, in flue dust chambers, or dust flues, 
or in the removal of flue dust. 

12. No person shall be newly employed in rooms mentioned in 
Regulation 1, in flue dust chambers, or dust flues, or in the transport 
of flue dust, without a certificate of fitness from the surgeon appointed 
by the higher authorities. 

These certificates shall be collected and shown to the Factory 
Inspector and Appointed Surgeon on request. 

13. No person shall be employed in charging blast furnaces apart 
from mere laboring work on the floors, for more than eight hours 
daily. The same shaU apply in the case of workmen employed in 
the inside of furnaces when cool, or in emptying flue dust chambers, 
or dust flues which contain wet flue dust. 

No person shall be employed in cleaning out from inside flue dust 
chambers, or dust flues containing dry flue dust for more than four 
hours daily; and including emptying and work of transport of thi& 
kind altogether no longer than eight hours daily. 

Other workers in rooms specified in Regulation 1 shall not work 
more than ten hours in twenty-four, exclusive of meal times. 

Exception to this is allowed in the case of those workers who are 
employed for the purpose of weekly change of shift, and for whom 
exception as to Sunday employment is permitted by Imperial Decree. 

CLOTHING, OVERALLS, 'LAVATORY ACCOMMODATIONS, ETC. 

14. The occupier shall provide for all persons employed in cleaning 
out flue dust chambers, dust flues, repairing of cooled furnaces, grind- 
ing, sieving and packing of litharge, red lead, or other lead colors,, 
complete suits of working clothes, including caps and respirators. 

15. Work with lead salts in solution shall not be done except 
by workers who either grease their hands or are provided with im- 
permeable gloves. 

16. The suit of clothes, or overalls, provided in Regulations 14 
and 15, respirators and gloves, shall be provided in sufficient amount 
and in proper condition. The occupier shall see that these are always 
suitable for their purpose, and are not worn except by those workers 



HEALTH HAZARDS IN OCCUPATIONS 259 

for whom they are intended; and that they, at stated intervals (the 
overalls at least once a week, the respirators and gloves prior to use), 
are cleaned, and during the time that they are not in use are kept in a 
place specially reserved for each article. 

17. A lavatory and cloak room shall be provided for the use of 
the workman in a part of the building free from dust. Separate 
from it there shall be a dining room. These rooms must be kept free 
from dust and be warmed during the winter. 

In a suitable place provision shall be made for warming the workers' 
food. 

Water, soap, and towels, and arrangements for keeping separate 
the overalls from other clothing taken off before the commencement 
of work shall be provided in sufficient amount in the lavatory and 
cloak room. 

The occupier shall afford opportunity for persons engaged in 
cleaning out flue dust chambers, dust flues, and the cooled furnaces, 
to take a bath daily after the end of the work, and for those handling 
oxids of lead, at least once a week, during working hours inside the 
works. The bath room shall be warmed during the winter. 

18. The occupier shall place the supervision of the health of the 
workers in the hands of a surgeon appointed by the higher authorities 
for this purpose, whose name shall be sent to the Inspector of Factories. 
The surgeon shall examine the workers at least once a month in the 
factory, with a view to the detection of symptoms of lead poisoning. 

The occupier shall not employ persons suspected by the surgeon 
of having contracted lead poisoning in the processes mentioned in 
Regulation 1 or in cleaning out flue dust chambers, dust flues, or 
furnaces when cold, or transport of the flue dust, until they are quite 
well. Those who appear peculiarly susceptible shall be permanently 
suspended from working in these processes. 

19. The Health Register shall be shown to the Factory Inspector 
and Appointed Surgeon on demand. (Similar to Regulation 15 of 
Smelter Regulations.) 

20. The occupier shall require the workers to subscribe to the 
following condition: 

(1) Food must not be taken into the workrooms. Meals 
may only be taken outside the workrooms. 

(2) Workmen must only enter the meal room to take their 
meals or leave the factory, after they have taken off 
their overalls and carefully washed then- face and hands. 

(3) Workmen must use the overalls, respirators and gloves in 
those workrooms and for the particular processes for which 
they are given them. 

(4) Cigar and cigarette smoking during work is forbidden. 



260 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

(5) A bath in the factory must be taken every day at the 
close of their work by those engaged in the emptying and 
cleaning of flue dust chambers, flues, and furnaces when 
cold, and by those employed on oxids of lead once a week. 

Provided that this shall not apply in the case of workmen exempted 
by the appointed surgeon. 

Workers contraventing these orders will be liable to dismissal 
without further notice. 

21. In every workroom, as well as in the cloak room and meal 
room, there shall be posted up by the occupier, in a conspicuous place 
and in clear characters, a notice of these Regulations. 

The occupier is responsible for seeing that the requirements of 
Regulation 20 (1) is obeyed. He shall make a manager or foreman 
responsible for the precise carrying out of Regulation 20 (1), (2) and 
(5). The person thus made responsible shall see to the carrying out 
of the regulation and for the exercise of necessary care as prescribed 
in Paragraph 151 of the Factory Act. 

22. No work in a lead smelting works shall be commenced until 
notice of its erection has been sent to the Factory Inspector. After 
receipt of the notice he shall personally visit to see whether the arrange- 
ments are in accordance with these regulations. 

23. These regulations come into force on the 1st of January, 1906. 
Where structural alterations are necessary for the carrying out 

of Regulations 1, 6 (1), 6, 9, 10 and 17, the higher authorities may 
allow an extension of time to a date not later than January 1st, 1908. 

If it seems necessary on strong grounds of public interest the 
Council (Bundesrath) may extend the time in particular works until 
the 1st of January, 1913, and until then allow exceptions from the 
regulations as regards Regulation 13 (1) and (2). 

The following brief synopsis is fairly representative of the English 
and German regulations for the smelting of metals, tinning of hollow 
ware, dyeing of yarn with lead chromate, vitreous enameling, and 
rules for white lead and earthenware. 

Definitions. In these Regulations "lead process" means pasting, 
casting, lead burning, or any work involving contact with dry com- 
pounds of lead. 

Any approval given by the Chief Inspector of Factories in pursuance 
of these Regulations shall be given in writing, and may at any time 
be revoked by notice in writing signed by him. 

DUTIES OF OCCUPIER 

1. Ventilation. Every room in which casting, pasting or lead 
burning is carried on shall contain at least 500 cubic feet of ah* space 



HEALTH HAZARDS IN OCCUPATIONS 261 

for each person employed therein, and in computing this air space, 
no height above 14 feet shall be taken into account. 

These rooms and that in which the plates are formed shall be capable 
of thorough ventilation. They shall be provided with windows made 
to open. 

2. Separation of Processes. Each of the following processes 
shall be carried on in such manner and under such conditions as 
to secure effectual separation from one another and from any other 
process. 

(a) Manipulation of dry compounds of lead. 
(6) Pasting. 

(c) Formation and lead burning necessarily carried on therewith. 

(d) Melting down of old plates. 

Provided that manipulation of dry compounds of lead carried on 
as in Regulation 5 (6) need not be separated from pasting. 

3. Floors. The floors of the rooms in which manipulation of 
dry compounds of lead or pasting is carried on shall be of cement, 
or similar impervious material, and shall be kept constantly moist 
while work is being done. 

The floors of these rooms shall be washed with a hose pipe daily. 

4. Melting Pots. Every melting pot shall be covered with a 
hood and shaft so arranged as to remove the fumes and hot air from 
the workrooms. 

Lead ashes and old plates shall be kept in receptacles especially 
provided for the purpose. 

5. Manipulation of Dry Compounds of Lead. Manipulation of 
dry compounds of lead in the mixing of the paste or other processes 
shall not be done except (a) in an apparatus so closed, or so arranged 
with an exhaust draught, as to prevent the escape of dust into the 
workroom; or (6) at a bench provided with (1) efficient exhaust draught, 
and air guides so arranged as to draw the dust away from the worker, 
and (2) a grating on which each receptacle of the compound of lead 
in use at the tune shall stand. 

6. Covering the Benches. The benches at which pasting is done 
shall be covered with sheet lead or other impervious material, and 
shall have raised edges. 

7. Prohibition of Employment. No woman, young person, or 
child shall be employed in the manipulation of dry compounds of 
lead or in pasting. 

8. (a) Appointed Surgeon. A duly qualified medical practitioner 
(in these Regulations referred to as the "Appointed Surgeon") who 
may be the certifying surgeon, shall be appointed by the occupier, 
such appointment unless held by the Certifying Surgeon to be subject 
to the approval of the Chief Inspector of Factories. 



262 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

(6) Medical Examination. Every person employed in a lead 
process shall be examined once a month by the Appointed Surgeon, 
who shall have power to suspend from employment in any lead 
process. 

(c) No person after such suspension shall be employed in a lead 
process without written sanction entered in the Health Register by 
the Appointed Surgeon. It shall be sufficient compliance with this 
regulation for a written certificate to be given by the Appointed Sur- 
geon and attached to the Health Register, such certificate to be 
replaced by a proper entry in the Health Register at the Appointed 
Surgeon's next visit. 

(d) Health Register. A Health Register in a form approved by 
the Chief Inspector of Factories shall be kept, and shall contain a 
list of all persons employed in lead processes. The Appointed 
Surgeon will enter into the Health Register the dates and results of 
his examinations of the persons employed and particulars of any direc- 
tions given by him. He shall on a prescribed form furnish to the 
Chief Inspector of Factories on the first day of January in each year 
a list of the persons suspended by him during the previous year, the 
cause and duration of such suspension, and the number of exami- 
nations made. 

The Health Register shall be produced at any time when required 
by H. M. Inspectors of Factories or by the Certifying Surgeon or by 
the appointed Surgeon. 

9. Overalls. Overalls shall be provided for all persons employed 
in manipulating dry compounds of lead or in pasting. The overalls 
shall be washed or renewed once every week. 

10. Cloak and Dining Rooms. The occupier shall provide and 
maintain : 

(a) A cloak room in which workers can deposit clothing put off 
during working hours. Separate and suitable arrangements shall 
be made for the storage of overalls required in Regulation 9. 

(6) A dining room unless the factory is closed during meal hours. 

11. Food, Etc. No person shall be allowed to introduce, keep, 
prepare or partake of any food, drink, or tobacco, in any room in which 
a lead process is carried on. Suitable provision shall be made for the 
deposit of food brought by the workers. 

This regulation shall not apply to any sanitary drink provided by 
the occupier and approved by the Appointed Surgeon. 

12. Washing. The occupier shall provide and maintain for the 
use of the persons employed in lead processes a lavatory, with soap, 
nail brushes, towels, and at least one lavatory basin for every five 
such persons. Each such basin shall be provided with a waste pipe, 
or the basins shall be placed on a trough fitted with a waste pipe. 



HEALTH HAZARDS IN OCCUPATIONS 263 

There shall be a constant supply of hot and cold water laid on each 
basin. 

Or, in the place of basins the occupier shall provide and maintain 
troughs of enamel or similar smooth impervious material, in good 
repair, of a total length of two feet for every five persons employed, 
fitted with waste pipes, and without plugs, with a sufficient supply 
of warm water constantly available. 

The lavatory shall be kept thoroughly cleansed and shall be sup- 
plied with a sufficient quantity of clean towels once every day. 

13. Before each meal and before the end of the day's work, at 
least ten minutes, in addition to the regular meal times, shall be allowed 
for washing to each person who has been employed in the manipula- 
tion of dry compounds of lead or in pasting. 

Provided that if the lavatory accommodation specially reserved 
for such person exceeds that required by Regulation 12, the time 
allowance may be proportionately reduced, and that if there be one 
basin or two feet of trough for each such person this regulation shall 
not apply. 

14. Baths. Sufficient bath accommodation shall be provided for 
all persons engaged in the manipulation of dry compounds of lead or 
in pasting, with hot and cold water laid on, and a sufficient supply of 
soap and towels. 

This rule shall not apply if in consideration of the special cir- 
cumstances of any particular case, the Chief Inspector of Factories 
approves the use of local public baths when conveniently near, under 
the conditions (if any) named in such approval. 

15. Cleaning. The floors and benches of each workroom shall 
be thoroughly cleansed daily, at a time when no other work is being 
carried on in theroom. 

DUTIES OF PERSONS EMPLOYED 

16. Medical Examination. All persons employed in lead processes 
shall present themselves at the appointed times for examination by the 
appointed surgeon as provided in regulation 8. 

No person after suspension shall work in a lead process, in any 
factory or workshop in which electric accumulators are manufactured, 
without written sanction entered in the health register by the appointed 
surgeon. 

17. Overalls. Every person employed in the manipulation of dry 
compounds of lead or hi pasting shall wear the overalls provided under 
Regulation 9. The overalls, when not being worn, and clothing put 
off during working hours, shall be deposited hi the places under 
Regulation 10. 

18. Food, Etc. No person shall introduce, keep, prepare, or 



264 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

partake of any food, drink (other than any sanitary drink provided 
by the occupier and approved by the appointed surgeon), or tobacco 
in any room in which a lead process is carried on. 

19. Washing. No person employed in a lead process shall leave 
the premises or partake of meals without previously and carefully 
cleaning and washing the hands. 

20. Baths. Every person employed in the manipulation of dry 
compounds of lead or in pasting shall take a bath at least once a week. 

21. Interference with Safety Appliances. No person shall in any 
way interfere, without the concurrence of the occupier or manager, 
with the means and appliances provided for the removal of the dust 
or fumes, and for the carrying out of these regulations. 

The Massachusetts State Board of Health has issued the following 
protective measures in a publicity campaign against lead poisoning: 
"The poison gains entrance into the system: 

(1) By swallowing minute particles of lead. 

(2) By inhaling lead dust or fumes of lead in a molten state 
or the vapor of lead in a fused state. 

(3) By absorption from the skin in handling lead. 

ADVICE TO EMPLOYEES 

1. General personal cleanliness is of first importance. 

2. Thoroughly clean your hands before touching food or before 
leaving the workroom. 

3. Thoroughly rinse your mouth before eating. . 

4. Take a substantial breakfast; an empty stomach is more sus- 
ceptible to the poisonous effects of lead. 

5. Take good nutritious food and plenty of milk. 

6. Never eat at your work. Eat your luncheon outside of the 
workroom away from the lead. Never smoke or use tobacco in any 
form while at work. 

7. Avoid all excesses! Alcoholic beverages are especially injurious. 

8. Wear overalls or a long coat at your work; also a cap or some 
head covering. Wherever practical wear gloves when lead is to be 
handled. 

9. Persons working in white lead or other powdered compounds of 
lead should always wear respirators while at work. Cause as little 
dust as possible. 

10. Consult a physician at the first sign of ill health. 

ADVICE TO EMPLOYERS 

1. Provide washing facilities, lockers, and a place for the employees 
to eat luncheons away from lead. 






HEALTH HAZARDS IN OCCUPATIONS 265 

2. Provide respirators for all workers who have to handle white 
lead or other powdered compounds of lead. 

3. The floors of the workrooms and the benches at which men work 
should be cleaned daily after thoroughly moistening them. 

. 4. These regulations should be posted in a conspicuous place in 
the workrooms." 

White Lead. The processes in the production of white lead which 
create dust are the most dangerous. Chambers should only be emptied 
by men wearing respirators. Vacuum cleaning apparatus should be 
used to clean all dusty apparatus. Drying stoves should as far as 
possible be mechanically charged. Similar measures should be em- 
ployed in the production of red lead, and lead chromates. 

The Painters Trade. The painters trade in all countries furnishes 
employment for a larger number of men than any other lead trade. 
Because the men do not always work in shops but, as in the case of 
house painters, in the various places where painting must be 
done it is an especially difficult trade in which to control the working 
conditions. 

The workers themselves sometimes recognize some of the dangers 
to which they are exposed as is evidenced by the following reason- 
able demands made by the Brotherhood of Chicago Painters and 
paperhangers during a strike in April, 1913: 

"No workmen or apprentices shall be required to use any poisonous 
substance or material injurious to health, such as wood alcohol, 
varnish remover, oxalic acid, or the sanding of lead, etc., unless they 
are protected with respirators, gloves, etc., same to be furnished by 
the employer; nor shall they be required to use any dirty or insanitary 
waste, rags or drop cloths. There shall be an allowance of five 
minutes for wash time in each four hours' work, and where lead or 
other poisonous material is used, the employer shall furnish hot water, 
soap, and towels to the workmen. The officers and members of the 
.organization shall enforce this clause." 

The German regulations, as quoted by Rambousek, covering the 
trades of this group are admirable: 

I. Regulations for carrying on the Industries of Painting, Distem- 
pering, Whitewashing, Plastering or Varnishing. 

Regulation 1. In the processes of crushing, blending, mixing 
and otherwise preparing white lead, other lead colors, or mixtures 
thereof with other substances in a dry state, the workers shall not 
directly handle pigment containing lead, and shall be adequately 
protected against the dust arising therefrom. 

Regulation 2. The process of grinding white lead with oil or 
varnish shall not be done by hand, but entirely by mechanical means, 
and in vessels so constructed that even in the processes of charging 



266 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

them with white lead no dust shall escape into places where work is 
carried on. 

This provision shall apply to other lead colors. Provided that 
such lead colors may be ground by hand by male workers over 
eighteen years of age, if not more than one kilogram of red lead and 
one hundred grains of other lead colors are ground by any one worker 
in one day. 

Regulation 3. The processes of rubbing down and pumice- 
stoning dry coats of oil color or stopping, not clearly free from lead, 
shall not be done except after damping. 

All debris produced by rubbing down and pumice-stoning shall 
be removed before it becomes dry. 

Regulation 4. The employer shall see that every worker who 
handles lead colors or mixtures thereof is provided with, and wears, 
during working hours, a painter's overall or other complete suit of 
working clothes. 

Regulation 5.' There shall be provided for all workers engaged 
in processes of painting, distempering, whitewashing, plastering, or 
varnishing, in which lead colors are used, washing utensils, nail 
brushes, soap and towels. If such processes are carried on in a new 
building or in a workshop, provision shall be made for the workers to 
wash in a place protected from frost, and to store their clothing in 
a clean place. 

Regulation 6. The employer shall inform workers, who handle 
lead colors or mixtures thereof, of the danger to health to which they 
are exposed, and shall hand them, at the commencement of employ- 
ment, a copy of the accompanying leaflet (not printed with this 
edition), if they are not already provided with it, and also a copy 
of these regulations. 

II. Regulations for the Processes of Painting, Distempering, 
Whitewashing, Plastering, or Varnishing when carried on in con- 
nection with another Industry. 

Regulation 7. The provisions of paragraph 6 shall apply to the 
employment of workers connected with another industry who are 
constantly or principally employed in the processes of painting, dis- 
tempering, whitewashing, plastering, or varnishing, and who use, 
otherwise than occasionally, lead colors or mixtures thereof. The 
provisions of paragraphs 8 to 11 shall also apply if such employment 
is carried on in a factory or shipbuilding yard. 

Regulation 8. Special accommodation for washing and for dressing 
shall be provided for the workers, which accommodation shall be kept 
clean, heated in cold weather, and furnished with conveniences for 
the storage of clothing. 

Regulation 9. The employer shall issue regulations which shall be 



HEALTH HAZARDS IN OCCUPATIONS 267 

binding on the workers, and shall contain the following provisions 
for such workers as handle lead colors and mixtures thereof : 

1. Workers shall not consume spirits in any place where work 
is carried on. 

2. Workers shall not partake of food or drink, or leave the place 
of employment until they have put off their working clothes and 
carefully washed their hands. 

3. Workers when engaged in processes specified by the employer, 
shall wear working clothes. 

4. Smoking cigars and cigarettes is prohibited during work. 
Furthermore it shall be set forth in the regulations that workers 

who, in spite of reiterated warning, contravene the foregoing provi- 
sions may be dismissed before the expiration of their contract without 
notice. 

If a code of regulations has been issued for the industry above 
indicated, provisions shall be incorporated in the said code. 

Regulation 10. The employer shall entrust the supervision of the 
worker's health to a duly qualified medical man approved of by the 
public authority, and notified to the factory inspector, and the said 
medical man shall examine the workers once at least in every six 
months for symptoms indicative of plumbism. 

The employer shall not permit any worker who is suffering from 
plumbism or who, in the opinion of the doctor, is suspected of plum- 
bism, to be employed in any work in which he has to handle lead 
colors or mixtures thereof, until he has completely recovered. 

Regulation 11. The employer shall keep or cause to be kept a 
register in which shall be recorded the state of health of the workers, 
and also the constitution of and changes in the staff; and he shall be 
responsible for the entries being complete and accurate, except in so 
far as they are affected by the medical man. 

The Printing Trades. It is undesirable that open metal pots should 
be in a general room where type-casting and setting and machinery are 
at work. The pots should be hooded and the fumes carried away 
by exhaust ventilation. It is important that these fumes shall not 
be distributed too near factories or dwelling places. In cleaning 
the flues men should be equipped with breathing apparatus. Local 
exhaust ventilation should be applied to type cases and letter casting 
machines. Vacuum cleaning of workrooms and type cases is strongly 
advised. Several hygienic safeguards against plumbism are of course 
necessary. 

The Ceramic Industries. In May, 1898, in England, the Home 
Secretary appointed Professor Thorpe and Dr. Thomas Oliver to make 
special inquiry and ascertain (1) how far the danger (of lead poison- 
ing in potteries) may be diminished or removed by substituting 



268 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

for the carbonate of lead ordinarily used, either (a) one or other less 
soluble compound of lead, e.g., a silicate; (6) leadless glaze; (2) how 
far any substitutes found to be harmless or less dangerous than the 
carbonate of lead fit themselves to the varied practical requirements 
of the manufacturer; (3) what other preventive measures can be 
adopted. 

The recommendations of this committee were: 

"1. That by far the greater amount of earthenware of the class 
already specified, i.e., the white and cream colored ware, can be glazed 
without the use of lead in any form. It has been demonstrated with- 
out the slighest doubt that the ware so made is in no respect inferior 
to that coated with lead glaze. There seems no reason, therefore, why 
in the manufacture of this class of goods the operatives should still 
continue to be exposed to the evils which the use of lead entails. 

2. There are, however, certain branches of the pottery industry 
in which it would be more difficult to dispense with the use of lead 
compounds. But there is no reason why, in these cases, the lead so 
employed should not be in the form of a fritted double silicate. Such 
a compound, if properly made, is but slightly attacked by even strong 
hydrochloric, acetic, or lactic acid. There is little doubt that if lead 
must be used, the employment of such a compound silicate if its 
use could be insured would greatly diminish the evil of lead poisoning. 

3. The use of raw lead as an ingredient of glazing material, or as 
an ingredient of colors which have to be subsequently fired, should be 
absolutely prohibited. 

4. As it would be very difficult to insure that an innocuous lead 
glaze shall be employed, we are of the opinion that young persons and 
women should be excluded from employment as dippers, dippers' 
assistants, ware cleaners after dippers, and glost placers in factories 
where lead glaze is used, and that the adult male dippers, dippers' 
assistants, ware cleaners, and glost placers should be subjected to 
systematic medical inspection." 

The danger of plumbism is greatest in small works since the technic 
necessary for the production of leadless glazes make their production 
in small quantities difficult and discontinuance of the use of lea glazes 
necessitates the complete alteration of their equipment for manufac- 
ture. Furthermore the cost of installation of localized exhaust ventila- 
tion is far greater in proportion to the cost of production in the small 
than in the large factory. Teleky, Chyzer and the Dutch Inspector 
DeVooys, 1 have demanded the total prohibition of the use of lead 
glazes and in Bohemia, at the cost of the state, technical instruction 
has been given in the preparation of leadless glazes in the districts 
where the ceramic industries are carried on in the homes of the workers, 
^ambousek: "Industrial Poisoning," p. 320. 






HEALTH HAZARDS IN OCCUPATIONS 269 

Rambousek, contrary to Oliver, does not expect much good from the 
obligatory use of fritted glazes. 

In Great Britain the china and earthenware industry is placed under 
Regulations dated January 2, 1913, which supersede the previous 
Special Rules. These Regulations thirty-six in number provide, 
among other usual provisions, (1) for efficient exhaust ventilation in 
(a) processes giving rise to injurious mineral dust (settling and pressing 
of tiles, bedding, and flinting, brushing and scouring of biscuit) and (6) 
dusty lead processes (ware cleaning, aerographing, color dusting, 
litho-transfer making, etc.); and (2) monthly periodical medical ex- 
amination of workers in scheduled processes. 

Zinc, Brass-casting, Metal Pickling, Galvanizing. Metallic fumes 
from zinc smelting contain lead, zinc, arsenic, sulphur dioxid and 
carbon dioxid. These require to be condensed in a specially arranged 
system. Hoods should be arranged over the fronts of furnaces so 
that fumes arising during the removal of distillation residues can be 
conducted into the chimney stock or drawn away by a fan. The 
residue should be automatically removed from the furnaces into 
closed receptacles where it is confined until cooled. The mixing 
of materials for charging as well as the sifting and packing of the zinc 
dust should be done mechanically under local exhaust ventilation. 
The regulations to control zinc smelting should be practically the same 
as those of lead. 

In brass-casting the development of 'brass founders' ague is best 
prevented by the local exhaustion of zinc oxid fumes as they escape 
from the crucible. Casting is often done in various places throughout 
the foundry and it is necessary to install small hoods connected to the 
exhaust ventilation system by flexible hose which can be moved about 
to cover any region where the casting may be in operation to protect 
the face of the pourer. 

In metal pickling dangerous acid fumes are evolved and require 
that the work be done in isolated chambers with exhaust ventilation. 
Well adapted for this purpose is a wooden compartment closed in 
except for a small opening in front exhausted by an acid proof stone- 
ware fan which leads the fumes through a stoneware pipe to an ab- 
sorption tower through which water trickles. The water thus charged 
with acid can often be utilized. 

In galvanizing and tinning processes acroleic vapors and metallic 
fumes arise as the metal objects are cleansed and dipped. These 
fumes must be exhausted as described above. 

Mercury. In smelting cinnabar sulphur dioxid and mercury 
fumes must both be exhausted. The mercury deposit in the flues 
should only be removed after watering and by workers provided with 
breathing apparatus and working suits. 



270 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

The advisability of the substitution of other chemicals for mer- 
cury in mirror making has been mentioned before. 

In using nitrate of mercury in the manufacture of felt hats, dust 
and nitric fumes must be exhausted and strict personal hygiene of 
the workers insisted upon. In France the following notice is required 
to be posted in animal hair cutting establishments where mercury 
is used: 

"Mercury and its compounds are dangerous. They may enter the 
body with the air breathed in (dust, vapors), with the food (unclean 
hands, unclean tables), through the skin (cracks, scratches or cuts). 

Should you have any cracks, scratches or cuts, please inform the 
management immediately of the fact. 

Before eating or drinking carefully clean your hands with soap 
and your mouth with drinking water. 

Should you have any pains in the mouth or teeth and excessive 
quantity of saliva, should you shiver, should you have swelling of 
the legs, hands or under the eyes, consult the doctor at once." 

Air pumps should be substituted for mercury pumps in produc- 
ing the vacuum in electric light bulbs. Careless handling of this 
volatile metal will endanger dentists, barometer and thermometer 
makers. 

In chemical factories calomel and corrosive sublimate, and the 
other mercury salts should be ground and prepared in closed appa- 
ratus. The folio whig are general preventive measures for workers 
in mercury suggested by Dr. George M. Kober: 

1. The imperative necessity of providing local exhaust ventila- 
tion wherever dust and fumes are evolved, as well 'as a reduction 
of working hours during the warm weather, should be generally 
recognized. 

2. All processes involving the use of mercury should be carried 
on in separate rooms, with a northern exposure of the windows, pref- 
erably at a temperature below 60, so as to reduce the danger from 
volatilization of the metal to a minimum. Work should be suspended 
when the temperature exceeds 78. 

3. Wooden floors and work benches are objectionable as they 
favor the lodgment of spilled mercury in cracks and crevices. Ena- 
meled iron benches and smooth asphalt floors, provided with an in- 
cline and channels toward receptacles in which the mercury may collect 
should be chosen. The receptacles should be covered leaving only 
a narrow opening just sufficient for the metal to enter. 

4. Absolute care to prevent spilling of the mercury should be 
exercised. The work benches should be freed from the metal upon 
cessation of work, the floors should be sprinkled and swept two or 
three times a day. 






HEALTH HAZARDS IN OCCUPATIONS 271 

5. The workers should be supplied with respirators in all dust 
producing processes; overalls and a suitable head covering of a per- 
fectly smooth material should be used and washed weekly. The 
hair "should be worn closely trimmed, preferably no beard; female 
and youthful employees should be excluded. The use of alcoholic 
beverages and tobacco should be prohibited. 

6. Cleanliness of person and clothing are of the utmost importance. 
No food should be taken in the workrooms and in no case until after 
thorough washing of the face and hands with soap and water, using 
a brush for the ringer nails, also washing the mouth and teeth with 
brush and water, followed by the use of a mouth wash and gargle with 
a solution of either chlorate or permanganate of potash or phenate 
of sodium. Heucke recommends the use of akremin soap, containing 
soluble alkaline sulphides, and believes that the wash water should 
also contain potassium sulphuratum so as to convert the mercury into 
insoluble sulphides. 

7. The firm should provide not only all the necessities referred 
to but also the facilities for warm shower and tub baths, suitable 
lockers for clothing, lunch rooms, and periodical medical examina- 
tion of the employees, with suspension from work if any are found to 
present symptoms of mercurial poisoning. 

Arsenic and Arseniuretted Hydrogen. Since arsenic is a power- 
ful poison it is very important that the greatest possible care should 
be taken by all who are engaged in its manufacture or brought 
in contact with it. Dr. George M. Kober suggests the following 
regulations: 

The officials and workmen are requested to strictly observe the 
following rules, and generally to take every precaution to prevent 
arsenical poisoning: 

1. In the process of de-arsenicating Vitriol, care must be taken 
to maintain an in-draught in the pipes and apparatus, to prevent 
escape of arsenical fumes, and should an escape be observed, the brine 
(or hydrochloric acid) should be at once shut off until the effect is 
remedied. 

2. In the precipitating, drying and packing operations, a clean 
respirator (GrelFs improved pattern) must always be used. A clean 
one must be obtained every morning from the laboratory, and the one 
used the previous day returned to the laboratory to be cleansed and 
prepared for use the next day. 

3. Every workman engaged in this process shall be provided by the 
company with a pair of india rubber gloves and a suit of clothes, which 
he is to put on in the morning and remove on leaving the works at 
night, and shall take a bath before putting on his ordinary clothing. 
These special clothes to be washed by the company and supplied 



272 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

clean to the workman once a week. Workmen must thoroughly wash 
their hands before taking food in the works. 

4. The buildings in which the manufacture of arsenic is carried on 
must be well ventilated to remove all fumes of chlorid of arsenic or 
dust of arsenious acid from the atmosphere. 

5. Any workman having cuts or abrasions on the skin will not be 
permitted to work in the arsenical department until such wounds 
have quite healed. 

6. Any workman showing the slightest signs of arsenical poisoning 
must be examined by a doctor and undergo medical treatment. 

Respirators should be worn by those handling white arsenic and 
packing or dusty processes should be done under local exhaust ventila- 
tion. In arsenic work imperviousness of the system is imperative. 
In technical processes and the trades, substitutes should replace 
arsenic wherever possible. 

All workmen in such industries as may necessitate even the pos- 
sibility of exposure to arseniuretted hydrogen gas such as in soldering 
with hydrogen, in galvanizing processes, in extracting metals with 
acids, and in storage battery manufacture, should be made thoroughly 
conversant with the danger and instructed in the use of first aid 
methods in the case of emergency. 

Gold and Silver. The same precautions apply to the extraction 
of the precious metals by amalgamation with mercury and volatiliza- 
tion as are mentioned under the use of mercury. 

Varnishes and Drying Oils. Closely fitting covers should be 
applied when linseed oil is boiled with oxidizing substances or in 
dissolving resin and the fumes should be condensed in cooling apparatus. 

Especial care should be exercised in the use of quick drying paints 
in the interior of rooms or ships or inside steam boilers, or any other 
enclosed place as fatalities have occurred from the inhalation of such 
poisonous solvents as benzin and turpentine. 

COMPENSATION AND INSURANCE 

The third class of preventive measures against diseases of oc- 
cupation is that of compensation and insurance. 

The principal question involved in the establishment of a method of 
compensation or insurance is that of ascertaining the per cent, to be 
borne by the community or state and the per cent, to be borne by the 
employer. Whether, as the supreme courts of some of the states 
such as California and Massachusetts have recently held, lead poisoning 
and other occupational intoxications can be considered as "personal 
injuries" or not, it certainly is as fair that compensation should be 
awarded the victim of occupational disease as that it should be given 



HEALTH HAZARDS IN OCCUPATIONS 



273 



to the victim of an industrial accident. If the employer is 
required to bear a part of the burden of providing compensation 
for the employee disabled by industrial disease, the importance 
of prevention of such conditions is thereby most forcibly impressed 
upon him. If, however, the employer has done all that he can to make 
the occupation of his employees conform with the laws in effect cover- 
ing such occupations and follows the suggestions made by the agencies 
especially trained and competent in the prevention of these conditions, 
'there is no moral reason why he should pay compensation for occupa- 
tional diseases. The state in allowing hazardous occupations to 
exist and thus acknowledging that the products of such occupations 
are necessary to the commonwealth thereby tacitly admits that it 
is responsibe for illness specifically due to such occupation and should 
bear the burden of compensation. 

In either case the expense of compensation would prove one of the 
greatest incentives for adequate prevention of occupational diseases. 

18 



274 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



LIST OF INDUSTRIAL POISONS 

(Translated by Wm. H. Rand, M. D.) 

(From Bulletin of the Bureau of Labor, No. 100, May, 1912) 



Designation of the 
substance 


Branches of industry 
in which poisoning 
occurs 


Mode of 
entrance 
into the body 


Symptoms of poisoning 


ACETALDEHYD 


Manufacture of vine- 


In the form 


Irritation of the mucous membranes 


ETHYLALDEHYD, 


gar; silver mirror 


of vapor, 


of the nose, larynx, and bronchi; 


CHsCOH: A color- 


manufacture. 


through the 


irritation of the mucous membrane 


less, very volatile 
fluid, of pungent 




respiratory 
organs and 


of the eyes; acceleration of the 
heart's action; profuse night 


odor. 




mucous mem- 


sweats. 






branes. 




ACRIDIN, CisHsN: 


Organic dyes indus- 


Exerts effect in 


Irritation and inflammation of skin 


Crystallizing in col- 


try. 


any state of 


and mucous membranes; severe 


orless needles; con- 
tained in anthra- 




aggregation 
on skin and 


burning and itching of the skin; 
violent sneezing. 


cene. 




mucous mem- 








branes. 




ACROLEIN, C 2 Hs- 


In the trying out of 


In vaporous 


Itching in the throat; irritation of 


COH: A colorless, 
very pungent smell- 


fat and fat con- 
taining material, 


form, through 
the organs of 


the eyes, exciting lachrimation, 
conjunctivitis; irritation of the air 


ing fluid, of fiery 


e.g., in bone ren- 


respiration 


passages, bronchial catarrh. 


taste. 


dering plants; oil- 


and the mu- 






cloth and linoleum 


cous mem- 






factories; varnish- 


branes. 






boiling shops; tal- 








low-rendering es- 








tablishments; soap 








factories (sulphuric 








acid _ process), and 








stearic-acid factories. 






AMMONIA, NHa: A 


Coke ovens; mirror- 


In gaseous 


A proportion of more than 0.15 per 


colorless gas of 


silvering industry; 


form, through 


cent, of ammonia in the air imme- 


sharply penetrating 


cqating_ iron plate 


the organs of 


diately causes an irritable con- 


odor. 


with tin or zinc; 


respiration. 


dition of the mucous membranes. 




manufacture of 


Seldom pure, 


Chronic bronchial catarrhs are 




solidified ammo- 


mostly in 


especially liable to follow long- 




nia, _ sulphate and 


combination 


continued inhalation of small 




chlorid of am- 


with other 


quantities of the gas diffused in the 




monium (sal am- 


gases. 


air. From these are to be dis- 




moniac) from am- 


Immediate 


criminated the acute conditions of 




monia water; 


effect on the 


transient illness: Intense irrita- 




manufacture of the 
carbonate of soda 


conjunctiva 
and the cor- 


tion of the respiratory _ organs; 
violent sneezing; lachrimation. 




and of orselle dye- 


nea. 


redness of the eyes, inflammation 




stuffs; dyeing in- 




of the cornea and of the conjunc- 




dustry; sewer 




tiva; increased secretion of saliva; 




cleaning; manufac- 




burning in the pharynx, and a 




ture of bone black; 




sense of constriction in the larynx; 




gas plants; varnish 




paroxysmal cough, with secretion 




and lacquer manu- 




of tenacious, viscid, even bloody. 




facture; tanning; 




mucus; embarrassment _of respira- 




beet-sugar m a n u- 




tion, attacks of suffocation; vomit- 




facture; manufac- 




ing of serous masses; ammoniacal 




ture of ice; refrig- 




odor of the perspiration; retention 




eration plants. 




of urine, which may last many 








hours and even two or three days; 








acute inflammation of the respira- 








tory organs, and scattered areas of 








inflammation in the lungs, in 








severe cases, a fatal outcome. 








Protracted ^ breathing of snmll 








quantities is apt to cause chronic 








bronchial catarrh. 



_ Special measures of relief : Immediate removal from the poisonous atmosphere; artificial respira- 
tion; inhalation of steam; faradic stimulation of the phrenic nerve; free bloodletting; in case of 
obstinate spasm of the glottis, tracheotomy. 






HEALTH HAZARDS IN OCCUPATIONS 



275 



Designation of the 
substance 


Branches of industry 
in which poisoning 
occurs 


Mode of 
entrance 
into the body 


Symptoms of poisoning 


AMYL ACETATE, 


Zapone lacquer used 


In the form 


Nervous symptoms; headache; full- 


CsHuCHjCOs: Za- 


as a lacquering 


of vapor, 


ness of the head; giddiness; nausea; 


pone, a solution of 


agent in metallic 


through the 


numbness; disturbances of diges- 


celluloid in amyl 


ware and jewelry 


respiratory 


tion; palpitations of the heart. 


acetate and acetone. 


factories; manu- 


organs. 






facture of _ metallic 








wire for incandes- 




- _ 




cent electric lamps; 








oilcloth manufac- 








ture. 






AMYL ALCOHOL, 


Manufacture of fruit 


In the form 


Congestion of the head; headache; 


CsHnOH: A color- 


essences, nitrite 


of vapor. 


oppression of the chest; irritation 


less, oily fluid, of 


of amyl, valeric 


through the 


of the air passages. 


very sharp taste 


acid, and anilin 


organs of res- 




and penetrating, 


dyes; rectification 


piration. 




disagreeable odor. 


of spirits. 






ANILIN, C S H 5 (N- 
Hj)': A colorless oil 


Manufacture of ani- 
lin and its deriva- 


Absorption 
through the 


The toxicity of the separate products 
is very different in degree; the para 


which acquires a 


tives, as well as of 


skin by di- 


compounds are usually more 


tint on exposure to 


anilin dyes: manu- 


rect contact 


poisonous than the ortho and meta 


air and light. Like 


facture of photo- 


or by satura- 


compounds. 


anilin, all other 


graphic materials 


tion of the 


ACUTE POISONING. (a) Mild 


amid compounds of 


and the like. 


c lothing; 


cases: Pallor of the skin and 


benzol and its homo- 




through the 


mucous membranes, with slight 


logues, as toluol, 




digestive or- 


cyanosis; a feeling of weariness and 


naphthalin, xylol, 




gans; absorp- 


weakness; head symptoms ver- 


etc., are poisons. 




tion through 


tigo, reeling, unsteady gait; defi- 


Especially should 




the respira- 


cient elasticity of movement; slow, 


be mentioned alpha 




tory organs 


labored speech; irritability (anilin 


and beta naphthy- 




as volatile 


"pip"); condition of slight inebri- 


lamin, benzidin, 




particles and 


ation, with loquacity, gaiety, and 


tolidin, paranitra- 
nilin, the diamins 




impalpable 
dust. 


defective power of orientation; loss 
of appetite, constipation, and 


(phenylene and tol- 






tense, rapid pulse. 


ylene diamin) as 






(6) Severe cases: Dark blue to 


well as the alphyl 






swarthy cyanosis; formation of 


and aryl com- 






methemoglobin; bounding pulse; 


pounds of anilin, 
like their _ homo- 






" air-hunger," with great frequency 
of respiration; lowering of sensi- 


logues (dimethyl 






bility; obliteration of the reflexes; 


and diethyl anilin, 






sometimes vomiting, strangury and 


diphenylamin; etc.) . 






bloody urine. 








(c) In the most serious cases: 








Sudden prostration; cold, pale 








skin, blue lips, nose and ears; 








diminution and even extinction of 








sensibility; moist, cold skin; small 








pulse; death in a comatose condi- 








tion, sometimes after antecedent 








convulsions. 








SUBACUTE AND CHRONIC POISON- 








ING. Anemia; slowing of the 








pulse; disorders of digestion, such 






as eructations, loathing of food. 






vomiting, diarrhea, and eczematous 


i 




and pustular eruptions on various 






parts of the body, especially on the 








scrotum; nervous symptoms, _ as 








general debility, headache, ringing 
in the ears, vertigo, unrestful sleep. 








disturbances of sensibility, often 








also of motility; spasmodic muscu- 


. 






lar pain. Subacute and chronic 








poisonings are very rare. Anemia 








and retarded pulse are early 








symptoms. 








The blood is of a brownish hue, 








but microscopically unchanged ; 


. 






occasionally the urine contains 








blood. 



a cool shady spot; 

solution; copious ingestion'of "rniikTin'case of we"ak action of the heart, stimulants (black coffee, 
camphor, ether, but no alcohol); caution against the use of alcohol during and immediately after 
labor; abstinence is advisable. 



276 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



Designation of the 
substance 


Branches of industry 
in which poisoning 
occurs 


Mode of 
entrance 
into the body 


Symptoms of poisoning 


ANILIN DYE- 








STUFFS: The ma- 








jority of the very 








numerous anilin 








dyes are non-poi- 








sonous. Generally 








the basic dyes are 








more dangerous 








than the acid dyes. 








Regarded as sus- 








picious or injurious 








to health are 
(a) The various 
phenol nitrates, di- 
nitrophenol, dini- 
trocresol (saffron 


Anilin dye factories; 
dyehouses ; also 
manufacture of ex- 
plosives. 


Action on the 
skin; in the 
form of dust, 
through the 


Itching, dermatitis, efflorescent erup- 
tion, yellow discoloration of the 
cuticle and conjunctiva; sneezing 
and nasal catarrh; inflammation of 


yellow, anilin 




respiratory 


the buccal mucous membrane; 


orange), picric acid 

( tri nitr ophcnol) . 




organs; the 
digestive or- 


bitter_ taste; disturbances of diges- 
tion; irritation of the central nerv- 






gans. 


ous system and of the kidneys. 








Picric acid is a feeble former of 








methemoglobin; industrial poi- 








sonings by it are extremely rare. 








Blood poisons, forming methemo- 


(6) The many 
naphthol nitrates, 
dinitronaphthol, 
Manchester yellow, 


Anilin dye manu- 
factories; dyehouses. 


Action on the 
skin; in the 
form of dust, 
through the 


globin. The morbid symptoms 
resemble those in poisoning by 
amido compounds; ailments of the 
central nervous system in great 


dinitro and naph- 




respiratory 


variety; paralyses. 


thol calcium; tet- 




organs; the 




ranitronaphthol. 




digestive or- 








gans. 




(c) The nitroso 


Anilin dye manu- 


In the form of 


Intense irritation of the skin, caused. 


dyes. 


factories; dyehouses. 


dust on the 


it is _ asserted, partly by using 






skin. 


excessive quantities of chlorid of 








lime in cleansing the skin. 


(d) The aurantia 


Anilin dye manu- 


In the form of 


Intense irritation of the skin, caused. 


hexani tr odi- 


factories; dyehouses. 


dust on the 


it is asserted, partly by using 


phenylamin; im- 




skin. 


excessive quantities of chlorid of 


perial yellow, its 






lime in cleansing the skin. 


sodium salt. 








(e) Ethyl and 


Anilin dye manu- 


As dust or fine 


Inflammation of the conjunctiva or 


. methyl violet. 


factories; dyehouses; 


particles in 


the cornea. 




manufacture o f 


the eyes. 






colored pencils. 






(!) The Meldola 


Anilin dye manu- 


As dust or at- 


Eruptions; severe irritation of the 


dyes, corvulin, in- 


factories; dyehouses. 


omized solu- 


mucous membranes; uncontroll- 


dulin, fast black. 




tion (in dye- 
ing by the 


able sternutation. 






spraying pro- 








cess) ; action 








on the skin 








and respira- 








tory organs. 




(g) Chrysoidin, 


Anilin dye manu- 


In the form of 


Eruptions (probably superinduced 


fast black. 


factories; dyehouses. 


dust; effect 


by the use of excessive^ quantities 






on the skin. 


of the chlorid of lirne in washing 








the hands). 


(K) Bismarck blue 


Anilin dye manu- 








factories; dyehouses. 






ANTIMONY COM- 


Extraction of anti- 


In^the form of 


Intensely itching eruptions of the 


POUNDS: 


mony and its com- 


vapor (trioxid 


skin, caused by local irritation and 


Trioxid of antimony, 


pounds; burnish- 


of antimony, 


aggravated in the case of a per- 


SbsO; 


ing of rifle barrels 


antimonious 


spiring skin; inflammation of the 


Antimony trichlorid, 


and steel ware; 


acid, sulphid 


mouth, throat, and stomach; con- 


SbClj (antimon- 


manufacture o f 


of antimony) , 


stipation and intestinal colic; in 


ious chlorid, butter 


antimony alloys, 


through the 


acute cases, diarrhea, albumin in 


of antimony, anti- 


type and stereo- 


organs of res- 


the urine, loss of strength, weak- 


monial ere butter) ; 


type metal, hard 


piration; irri- 


ness of the heart, vertigo, and 


Tartar emetic (tar- 


lead _ [ammunition 


tation of the 


faintness. 


trate of antimony 


factories], britan- 


skin; in the 


It appears to be somewhat 


and potassium) , 


nia, and white 


form of dust, 


doubtful, however, whether all of 


2 (C4H4K[SbO]Oe) 


metal; remelting 


in the ma- 


the enumerated compounds of 


HzO; 
Golden sulphid, 


of old and scrap 
metal; manufac- 


nipulation o f 
britannia and 


antimony are detrimental to the 
health of the workers in them. 


SbsSs (antimony 


ture of anilin 


type metal. 




pentasulphid) , an- 


dyes, fireworks ; 






timony colors. 


vulcanizing and 








red-dyeing of india 








rubber (antimony pentasulphid); mordants and fixing materials in cotton 




dyeing and textile printing. 



HEALTH HAZARDS IN OCCUPATIONS 



277 



Designation of the 
substance 



Branches of industry 

in which poisoning 

occurs 



Mode of 

entrance 

into the body 



Symptoms of poisoning 



ARSENIC COM- 
POUNDS: Arsenic 
trioxid, A82Os (ar- 
senic, white arsenic, 
smelting dust) ; 
arsenous chlorid, 
AsCls; arsenic col- 
ors, e.g. 
Scheele's green 
(Swedish green), 
arsenite of copper. 
Schweinfurt green 
(patent, original, 
new, moss, moun- 
tain, parrot, May, 
Kaiser, Cassel, 
Paris, Vienna, 

Kirchberg, Leipsic, 
Wiirzburg, Swiss 
green), compound 
of the arsenite and 
the sulphld of cop- 
per. 

Brunswick green, 
oxychlorid of cop- 
per with copper 
oxid and sulphate 
of lime. 

Neuwied green. 
(Similar, only_ a 
larger proportion 
of ars me trioxid.) 
Cochineal (Vienna 
red), arsenic acid 
with extract of 
Pernambuco 
wood. 



Arsenic mining; 
roasting of arsenic- 
bearing ores; manu- 
facture of glass, 
colored chalk, chlo- 
rid of arsenic for 
etching on brass; 
shot manufacture; 
metal working; 

manufacture of 

arsenic colors; 
preparation of or- 
ganic dyestuffs, 
colored lights, tex- 
tile printing, and 
dyeing; manufac- 
ture of wall paper 
and colored paper ; 
tanning; manu- 
facture of oilcloth 
and artificial flow- 
era; taxidermy 
painting (outside 
and decorative) : 
pyrotechnics (In- 
dian white-fire). 

It is to be ob- 
served that zinc, 
silver, lead, bis- 
muth, copper, and 
the commercial 

acids often con- 
tain more or less 
arsenic. 



In the forms of 



gas and dust, 
through the 
respiratory 
organs and 
mucous mem- 
branes, the 
stomach, and 
intestinal 
canal. 



ACUTE POISONING. The first symp- 



toms usually appear after half an 
hour or an hour, viz., constriction 
of the esophagus, pains in the 
stomach and _ bowels, vomiting, 
diarrhea, debility, cold, bluish 
skin, sural cramp, lowering of 
heart's energy, _ vertigo, headache, 
faintness, illusions, loss of con- 
sciousness, convulsions; death, 
sometimes choleraic symptoms. 
In mild cases, burning in the 
pharynx, vomiting, salivation, 
difficult deglutition and indiges- 
tion. 

CHRONIC POISONING. Constant 
and persistent headache combined 
with melancholia, disinclination 
to labor, and sleeplessness, which 
are sometimes the only symptoms; 
further, gastric disturbances, such 
as vomiting and diarrhea, which 
result in emaciation and decline of 
strength; persistent symptoms of 
catarrh of the mucous membranes, 
such as coryza, pharyngitis and 
bronchitis; frequently skin diseases 
in varying form: Erythematous, 
papular, and pustular cutaneous 
eruptions, which also produce ab- 
scesses with infiltrated and indu- 
rated borders; falling put of the 
hair and najls; melanosis that is, 
the deposition of a brownish pig- 
ment, not containing arsenic, on 
the neck, trunk, and extremities. 

_In severe cases disturbances of 

the central nervous system; intense, lightninglike, laneinatne pains; formi- 
cation; furriness of the skin; impairment of the sensibility; chilliness; weak- 
ness of the muscles, also unilateral or bilateral paralysis, and often loss of the 
tendon reflexes; sometimes fever; albuminuria. The paralyses are transient, 
or they may last for years, leaving not infrequently permanent disturbances. 

Special measures of relief : If arsenic has been ingested, thorough gastric lavage is necessary; then 
administer at once by the mouth five tablespoonfuls of a solution of calcined magnesia (70 g. to 500 g. 
of distilled water) ; afterward give a tablespoonful every five minutes until a movement of the 
bowels occurs; the internal use of lime water also is recommended for rinsing out the stomach and 
as an antidote; to counteract the exhaustion, cold affusions, rubbing, hypodermic injections of ether 
and camphor. 1 

In case of chronic arsenical poisoning: Electric vapor baths and electrical treatment are in order; 
the disturbances of the stomach are to be treated with calcined magnesia and unirritating liquid 
nourishment (milk, milk porridg_e, rice porridge, salep) ; the cachexia, by fresh air and nutritious diet; 
in paralyses, use iodin preparations and electricity. 



ARSENIURETED 


This gas is formed 


In the form of a 


At first no disturbances, or only 


HYDROGEN, 


everywhere when, 


gas, through 


slight indisposition; after some 


AsHs: A colorless, 


in the use of arsen- 


the organs of 


hours, chilliness, vomiting (food, 


extremely offensive 
gas with the odor of 


ical acids and met- 
als, hydrogen is 


respiration 
(generally 


bile, then blood), pain in the back, 
giddiness, ringing in the ears, faint- 


garlic. 


generated for tech- 


mixed with 


ness, small pulse, bluish discolora- 




nical purposes (e. 


hydrogen) . 


tion of the mucous membranes; 




g., the filling of 




labored respiration; urine at times 




children's toy bal- 




dark or even black, containing 




loons) ; in solder- 




blood or hemoglobin. 




ing and etching 




After twenty-four hours, yellow 




with arsenic-con- 




hue of the skin and mucous 




taining metals or 




membranes; from absorption of 




acids, e.g., enamel 




biliary fluids, fetor of the mouth 




ware factories, tin, zinc, and_ lead 


(resembling garlic), swelling and 




plating works; impure iron silicate, 


sensitiveness of the liver and spleen, 




by the absorption of water, develops 


headache, delirium, mortal an- 




arseniuretted hydrogen. 


guish; death or slow convalescence. 



Special measures of relief: Fresh air and oxygen; later bloodletting; use of an alkalin solution of 
common salt; mild alkalin drink; analeptics (coffee, camphor). 



1 Hydrated sesquioxid of iron is not mentioned. 



278 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



Designation of the 
substance 


Branches of industry 
in which poisoning 
occurs 


Mode of 
entrance 
into the body 


Symptoms of poisoning 


BENZIN : A mixture 


Benzin distillation; 


In the form 


Headache, vertigo, nausea, vomiting, 


of low-ebullition 


chemical cleansing 


of vapor, 


cough, irregular respiration, weak- 


portions of petro- 
leum, known com- 


plants, glove clean- 
ing; removal of fat 


through the 
respiratory 


ness of the heart, drowsiness, and 
deep sleep with cyanosis of the 


mercially under vari- 


from bones, fat sol- 


organs; to a 


countenance, coldness of the skin 


ous names, e.g., 
petroleum, benzin, 

ligroin, gasolin. 


vent; lacquer, var- 
nish, and India 
rubber industries; 
manufacture of 


less extent, 
probably, 
through the 
skin also. 


and complete insensibility; on 
awaking, headache, vertigo and de- 
pression, fibrillar twitching of the 
muscles, trembling, especially of 




waterproof f mate- 




the musculature, as if from chilli- 




rials (application 




ness. Benzoic acid is found in the 




of the rubber mass 




urine. 




dissolved in ben- 




CHRONIC POISONING. Head- 




zin) ; ornamental 




ache^ flashes before the eyes, ring- 




feather factories; 




ing_ in the ears, psychosis with 




used as a source of 




excitement and a state resembling 




power. 




inebriation,_ sensory disturbances 








and hallucinations (but the pro- 








dromata of chronic benzin poi- 








soning will also _ appear). The 








occurrence of chronic poisoning by 








benzin has been contested. 








The symptoms vary greatly be- 








cause the benzin used technically 








is a complex mixture and not al- 








ways of the same composition. 



Special measures of relief: Removal of the patient into fresh air; in severe cases, stimulants, like 
coffee, camphor; then cold affusions. 



BENZOL, CeHo. A 


Manufacture of ben- 


In the form 


Benzol, its homologues and the rest 


very unstable, color- 


zol, its homologues 


of vapor, 


of the hydrocarbons of coal tar, 


less fluid, burning 


and numerous 


through the 


have a specific affinity for the 


with a bright, very 


derivates; technic- 


respiratory 


central nervous system and a gen- 


sooty flame; ex- 


al use of these 


organs; _ re- 


eral action on the protoplasm of 


tremely volatile; its 


products in the 


absorption 


the organic cells (fatty degenera- 


homologues, e.g., 
toluol, xylol, and 

cumol. 


manufacture of 
colors, in carbur- 
izing illuminating 


through the 
skin. 


tion). Female workers, particu- 
larly in their developmental years, 
especially at the time of menstrua- 




and water gas, in 




tion, are more susceptible than men 




refining and dis- 




to the poisoning, and in an extra- 




solving of caout- 




ordinary degree to the subacute 




chouc, resins, fats, 




and chronic forms of it. 




alkaloids, iodin. 




ACUTE POISONING. (a) In mild 




phosphorus, and 




cases: Cerebral disturbances, hum- 




sulphur; in the re- 




ming in the ears, giddiness, somno- 




moval of grease 




lence, a condition resembling in- 




from materials; 




ebriation, vomiting and irritant 




dye works, laun- 




cough, _ slight flushing of the face. 




dries; lacquer and 




There is often euphoria. 




varnish factories; 




(b) In severe cases: Symptoms on 




the rubber industry. 




the part of the central nervous sys- 








tem, muscular tremor, like chilli- 








ness from exposure to cold; trem- 








bling of the whole extremities; 








finally^ tonic and_clonic spasms; 








euphoria; pale, livid skin; lips re- 








markably scarlet _ hued; blood 








bright red, thin. Discolorations of 








the skin, like those in anilin and 








nitrobenzol poisoning, are wanting 








in benzol poisoning. 








(c) In the most violent cases: Hal- 








lucinations, delirium, protracted 








unconsciousness, and death in tonic 








convulsions. 








SUBACUTE AND CHRONIC POISON- 








ING. Numerous spots of extrava- 








sated blood in the skin [petechia] 








similar to those of morbus macu- 








losus, together with severe ane- 








mia; hemorrhage from the mucous 








membranes in women, from the 








genitals; fatty degeneration of 








the internal organs (heart, liver, 








kidneys). 



Special measures of relief: Prompt removal of the patient into the fresh air; inhalation of oxygen; 
exclusion of female workers from every employment in which benzol is used. 



HEALTH HAZARDS IN OCCUPATIONS 



279 



Designation of the 
substance 



Branches of industry 

in which poisoning 

occurs 



Mode of 

entrance 

into the body 



Symptoms of poisoning 



CARBON DIOXID, 
CO2: A specifically 
dense, odorless, col- 
orless gas, collect- 
ing near the ground 
or floor. 



In the form of 
gas, by in- 
halation. 



Large quantities occasion sudden 
death by suffocation. 

With the inhalation of smaller 
quantities the symptoms of illness 
begin with pressure in the head, 
vertigo, ringing in the ears and 
sparks before the eyes, disturbances 
of respiration, such_ as hurried 
breathing and pain in the chest, 
sometimes psychic excitement and 
convulsions. Usually in case of 
more protracted effect there is loss 
of consciousness and of the power of 
motion (or even death by suffoca- 
tion), with gradual decline of the 
pulse and respiration, and often 
with the occurrence of delirium. 

On prompt removal from the 
poisonous atmosphere there is a res- 
toration of consciousness with sub- 
sidence of the symptoms of illness 
and recovery in a few days. 

The occurrence of chronic poison- 
ing by carbon dioxid is doubtful. 

Special measures of relief: Examination of the air of the suspected places before entering them ; 
immediate removal from the poisonous atmosphere; artificial respiration to be persevered in for 
a long time; finally inflation of the lungs with oxygen; cold affusions; stimulation of the skin; 
restoratives. 



Generated in mines 
by the process of 
breathing, by the 
burning of miners' 
lamps, and _ by 
blasting; in lime 
and brickkilns and 
dolomite calcining 
kilns; in decompo- 
sition and putre- 
faction gases; in 
tanneries (tan 

pits) ; in sugar 
mills (saturation 
vessels); manufacture of carbonic 
acid and of mineral waters; spirit dis- 
tilleries, compressed yeast factories, 
breweries, fermenting rooms and 
wine cellars; in sewer and well gases; 
in firing and heating establishments; 
in the lighting of workrooms; by the 
exhaled air in closed workrooms and 
caissons. 






CARBON DISUL- 
PHID (carbon sul- 
phurate), CSz: In a 
pure state it is a 
limpid, highly re- 
fractive, extraordi- 
narily volatile fluid, 
having an odor like 
that of chloroform; 
imperfectly refined, 
its hue is pale yel- 
low and its odor 
offensive. 



gas 
dis- 



Manufacture of CSj; 
an agent for ex- 
traction of sulphur 
from the mass in 
the process of 
purification; 
infection; a sol- 
vent for caoutchouc, 
gums, _ fats, oils, 
etc.; in vulcaniz- 
ing caoutchouc 

and rubber (pat- 
ent-rubber facto- 
ries) ; for the ex- 
traction of lanolin, 
the refining of tal- 
low, stearin, paraf- 
fin, and wax; pro- 
ductipn of carbon 
chlorid; assembling 
and setting up car- 
riage wheel rims and 
rubber tires; imi- 
tation-silk factories. 



In the form 
of vapor, 
through res- 
piration; in 
fluid form, 
through the 
skin, e.g., at 
the dipping of 
the hands in 
the fluid. 



It causes heavy damage to the red 
blood corpuscles and to the central 
nervous system. 

ACUTE POISONINO. In mild 
cases, marked stupefaction and a 
sense of intoxication; in more in- 
tense poisoning, pallor of the coun- 
idit 



tenance, flaccidity of the arms and 
legs, even complete insensibility, 
obliteration of all reflexes, loss of 
consciousness, due to paralysis of 
the central nervous system. With 
the inhalation of concentrated 
vapor there is a fatal result in a few 
minutes. 

_ CHRONIC POISONING. The ear- 
liest symptoms (first becoming 
manifest, sometimes after employ- 
ment for a few weeks, but, for the 
most part, after months or even 
years) are headache, extending 
from the root of the nose to the tern- 
pies, a sensation of giddiness and 
stupefaction, particularly at even- 
ing after the close _of labor; later, 
pain in the extremities, muscular 
weakness with trembling, spasms 

or fibrillar twitching, also contractures, transient and permanent paralyses, 
with atrophy of the muscles; deafness; itching and formication on the skin, 
reduction of the reflexes, circumscribed and more extensive areas of anes- 
thesia and analgesia; acceleration of the heart's action, nausea, vomiting, 
colic, alternate diarrhea and constipation, the later condition prevailing in 
the later stages of the disease; emaciation, disturbance of the sense of vision, 
sometimes transient, but rare in the initial stage; retrobulbar neuritis, 
choroiditis, central scotoma, disturbances of the senses of smell and taste. In 
respect to the central nervous system there is at first a condition of excite- 
ment, _ followed by depression; subsequently, very irritable, violent, and 
explosive temper, with hyperstimulation of the sexual instinct; later, its 
abnormal decline. After several weeks or months, relaxation, melancholy, 
a dreamy manner, weakness of memory, puerile enunciation, obtuseness. 

According to Charcot, psychic disturbances occur in 87.5 per cent, of the 
cases. Mental diseases under the semblance of acute mania and dementia 
occur with good prospect of recovery; the severer forms appear in cases where 
there is hereditary predisposition. There have been obse_rved also local evi- 
dences of the paralyzing _ effect of the carbon disulphid upon the parts 
brought into contact with it, especially in the fingers. 

The prognosis, so far as the preservation of life is concerned, is favorable; 
as to the full restoration of health, it is unfavorable. 

Special measures of relief: In acute poisoning, removal into the fresh ajr, warm baths, cold 
affusions; when there are symptoms of paralysis, electrical treatment; in disturbance of vision, 
potassium iodid and vapor baths; interdiction of the practice of dipping the unprotected hands 
into carbon disulphid. 



280 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



Designation of the 
substance 


Branches of industry 
in which poisoning 
occurs 


Mode of 
entrance 
into the body 


Symptoms of poisoning 


CARBON MON- 


In industrial plants 


In the form of 


ACUTE POISONING. Increased blood 


OXID, CO: A color- 
less, tasteless gas, 


with defectively 
planned or ill- 


gas, through 
the respira- 


pressure at first, with slowing of 
the pulse and pounding heartbeat; 


and, when in a state 


tended firing and 


tory organs. 


later, lowering of the pressure, with 


of diffusion, odor- 


heating arrange- 




rapid but small pulse, and, not in- 


less, burning with a 
blue flame in the air. 


ments; plants for 
the production of 




frequently, with discrete spots of 
dilation in the superficial blood 


Coal vapor has from 
0.5 to 5 per cent. 


industrial gas; min- 
ing (mine gases) ; 




vessels. Remarkably pale red dis- 
C9loration of the blood and of the 


of CO. 


coal mines; blast 




dilated spots; formation of carbon- 


Illuminating gas, 6 


furnaces (furnace 




monoxid hemoglobin is demon- 


to 10 per cent, of 


gas); Cowper appa- 




strable by the spectrum. 1 


CO and 33 to 40 


ratus; gas purifica- 




(a) Disturbances of the general 


per cent, of mine 


tion; coke ovens, 




health: In mild cases, dull head- 


gas. 
Water gas, a mix- 


smelting furnaces; 
gas machines; lime 




ache, flashes before the eyes, giddi- 
ness, ringing in the ears, nausea 


ture of 41 per cent. 
CO, 50 per cent. 


and brick kilns, 
dolomite calcining 




and fullness in the gastric region. 
(6) In severe cases: Bluish discol- 


hydrogen, 4 per 


kilns; iron and 




oration of the skin; spasmodic, 


cent. COs, and 5 


metal^ foundries 


" 


wheezing respiration; sometimes 


per cent. N. 


(drying of the 




tonic and clonic convulsions, more 


Producer gas con- 


molds) ; soldering 




often paralytic symptoms, either 


tains "34 per cent. 


in tin shops; char- 




with weakness of all the extremi- 


CO, and 60 per 


coal burning; resin 




ties or of the lower only, or, indeed, 


cent, hydrogen 


distillation ; iron- 




of only single groups of muscles, 


gas. 


ing; heating with 




including also the facial muscles. 




open coal brasiers 




The convulsive stage, which may 




or coke stoves (dry- 




be altogether absent, is succeeded 




ing the plaster 




by the stage of asphyxia, with sen- 




and walls of new 




sory and motor disturbances, in- 




buildings) ; drying 




voluntary voiding of urine, semen. 




chambers. 




and feces; subnormal temperature; 








weak, slow and intermittent pulse; 








loss of consciousness. 








As sequels there have been ob- 








served pneumonias, inflammations 








of the skin, paralyses and psy- 








choses, the last two often pursuing 








an unfavorable course. 








CHRONIC POISONING (among 








ironers, firemen, cooks, etc.) Fre- 








quent headaches, dizziness, nausea. 








vomiting, coated tongue, weakness 








of memory; anemia without chlo- 








rosis; "hot flushes," formication. 








palpitation of the heart, insomnia, 








general debility and feebleness of 








the psychic functions. 



Special measures of relief: Removal from the poisonous atmosphere; admission of fresh air; 
artificial respiration, with inflation of the lungs by oxygen for hours, if necessary; keep head of the 
injured person slightly elevated; subcutaneous injection of ether; camphor; cold affusions; rubbing; 
mustard poultice; electrical treatment; insufflation of ammonia vapor; administration of black coffee; 
alkalin salt infusion; entering where CO may be generated only when protected by safety masks 
and by a constant supply of air. 

1 An elementary knowledge of the function of the hemoglobin is indispensable to an understand- 
ing of the deadly effect of the transformation of hemoglobin into " carbon-monoxid hemoglobin." 
When so changed, it is useless in the body, for it can no longer carry and distribute oxygen to the 
tissues. Hence all of the blood charged with this poison is virtually destroyed lost to the system 
as surely as if it had escaped from a severed artery. So, if a considerable proportion of the blood 1 
becomes saturated with this gas, death is inevitable, not by suffocation, as commonly imagined,, 
but by carbon-monoxid poisoning. W. II. R. 

39538 Bull. 10012 2 



281 



Designation of the 
substance 


Branches of industry 
in which poisoning 
occurs 


Mode of 
entrance 
into the body 


Symptoms of poisoning 


CHLORID OF 

LIME, CaOCh: A 
white granular, 


Manufacture of the 
chlorid of lime; use 
of the chlorid of 


In the form of 
vapor or dust, 
through the 


More or less severe, irritating cough, 
symptoms of inflammation in the 
upper air passages; difficulty of 


somewhat desicca- 


lime as an oxidiz- 


respiratory 


breathing, bronchitis, asthma. 


tive, powder, hav- 


ing and chlorinating 


organs (in- 


sometimes hemoptisis, irritation 


ing the odor of hy- 


agent in the chem- 


halation of 


of the conjunctiva, lachrimation; 


pochlorous acid, 


ical industry (for 


chlorin gas) ; 


skin hot from action of chlorin; 


and containing 35 


example,_ dyestuffs) ; 


direct action 


hyperhidrosis; intensely itching 


to 40 per cent, of 


disinfection; manu- 


on the skin. 


and burning eruption on the skin. 


chlorin. 


facture of chloro- 




eczema, burns from the dust of 




form, chlorin, oxy- 




lime and its chlorid. 




gen ; bleaching of 








linen, cotton, paper; 








cotton print works. 







Special measures of relief: Admission to the employment of such, and only such, workmen as are 
sound and strong, and free from any predisposition to catarrhal affections; technical arrangements 
which permit the charging arid emptying of the chambers from the outside. 



CHLORIN, Cl: A 
yellowish green, 
suffocating gas, of 
penetrating odor, 
which forms a solu- 
tion of a greenish 
yellow color when 
dissolved in water. 






Manufacture of chlo- 
rin, chlorid of lime, 
and of organic chlo- 
rin products; bleach- 
eries; _paper mills; 
laundries; ironing; 
tinning works ; 

manufacture and 
use of disinfecting 
agents containing 
chlorin. 



In the form of The smallest quantities excite severe 
gas, through suffocative sensations and neces- 
the respira- sitate leaving the room, so that 
tory organs. acute chlorin poisoning seldom 
occurs. 

SYMPTOMS OF CUTANEOUS DIS- 
EASE. Burning, stinging, forma- 
tion of nodules, blebs, and even 
open wounds of the skin. 

EFFECT ON THE Mucous MEM- 
BRANES. Lachrimation, coryza, 
cough, oppression of the chest and 
intense dyspnea; bronchial ca- 
tarrh with hemorrhage; sometimes, 
lobular pneumonia. The concen- 
trated vapor causes uncontrollable 
cough, spasm of the glottis, dysp- 
nea, cold sweats, cyanosis and 
small pulse; death occurs within &. 
few minutes (sudden collapse). 

IN ITS CHRONIC EFFECT. Dis- 
tress in the gastric region; chronic 
catarrh of the stomach; pyrosis; 
pallid countenance; catarrh of the 
respiratory tract; lobular pneu- 
monia; headache, vertigo, insom- 
nia; gradual emaciation and pre- 
mature senescence. 

CHLORIN ACNE. (Occasioned 
in the electrolytic production of 
chlorin by chlorinated carbu- 
reted hydrogen.) Inflammatory 
processes in the dermal glands; 
the occurrence of unusually diffuse, 
confluent comedones with indu- 
rated, dark-green heads; solid infil- 
tration of the sebaceous follicles, 
their inflammation and suppura- 
tion causing pustules and boils. 

Special measures of relief: Removal of the patient into the fresh air; inhalation of amyl nitrite; 
artificial respiration; on account of the paralyzing effect of the chlorin on the heart, stimulants are- 
required (black coffee, subcutaneous injection of camphorated oil); to control the irritating cough, 
hypodermics of mprphin or cautious inhalation of steam. 

For the prevention of chlorin acne: Substitution of anodes made of molten metallic oxides for the 
carbon anodes. 



CHLORODINI- 
TROBENZOL, Ce- 
H 3 (NO2) 2 C1: Form- 
ing yellow crystals. 
(See Nitrobenzol.) 

CHLORONITRO- 
BENZOL, CeH4- 
NOzCl: Forming 
yellowish crystals of 
aromatic odor. (See 
Nitrobenzol.) 



282 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



Designation of the 
substance 


Branches of industry 
in which poisoning 
occurs 


Mode of 
entrance 
into the body 


Symptoms of poisoning 


CHROMIUM COM- 


Manufacture of 


Absorption by 


The chromates act very much like 


POUNDS: Chromic 


chromium prepara- 


the skin and 


chromic acid itself; pitlike, phage- 


acid, anhydrous, 


tions, chrome colors, 


mucous mem- 


denic ulcers, burrowing deep and 


CrOs; chromates 


and hectograph 


branes; in 


spreading wide, very difficult to 


and bichromates, 


composition; pho- 


the form of 


heal and very painful, occur almost 


e.g., sodium chro- 


tography (color and 


dust, through 


exclusively on the skin of the 


mate, NazCrO*; so- 


carbon printing) ; 


the respira- 


hands, more rarely on the arms, 


dium bichromate, 


oxidizing agent in 


tory organs. 


thighs, scrotum, and penis, resem- 


NajCrzO?; lead 


the tar-color in- 




bling syphilitic ulcers; they also 


chromate, PbCrO4. 


dustry; manufacture 




appear, though seldom, on the 


Chromium colors : 


of matches; wet bat- 




mucous membrane of the tonsils 


Chrome yellow 
(acid chromate of 
lead) ; chrome 


teries; bleaching 
fats, oils, and wax; 
mordant in Turk- 




and of the hard and the soft palate. 
With rare exceptions is there exten- 
sion of the inflammation to, and 


orange (basic and 


ish red_ _dyeing, 




perforation of, the nasal septum 


neutral chromate 


textile printing (for 




at the cartilaginous portion; ecze- 


of lead) ; chrome 


neutralizing colors 




matous eruptions. 


red (chrome-cin- 


and for dyeing) ; 




Irritation of the conjunctiva. 


nabar); acid chro- 


chrome tanning 




IRRITATION OF THE BRONCHI- 


mate of lead oxid 


(two-vat process) ; 




OLES. Chronic bronchial catarrh. 


and lead hydrate; 


staining of wood. 




and small areas of inflammation in 


chrome green, poi- 






the lungs. _ In recent years the 


sonous only as a 






last mentioned symptoms are 


mixture of chrome 






hardly ever encountered in a 


yellow and paris 






remarkably wide field of observa- 


blue. (See also 






tion. It is at least extremely 


under Lead.) 






doubtful if disease of the kidneys 








is ever caused by chromium. 








In handling chromium dyes con- 
taining lead there is danger of 








chronic lead poisoning. 



Special measures of relief: Chromium ulcers are successfully overcome by careful treatment of the 
slightest injuries to the skin, and by the immediate, complete, and skillful closure of the lesions. 



CYANOGEN COM- 


Extraction of gold; 


In the form of 


Generally speaking, industrial poi- 


POUNDS: Dicy- 


silver and gold 


gas, through 


sonings by cyanogen are rare. 


anogen, CjNz; Prus- 
sic acid, HCN: Hy- 
drocyanic acid, a 


plating, g a 1 v a n o- 
plasty, electroplat- 
ing; manufacture 


the respira- 
tory organs; 
prussic acid 


ACUTE POISONING. Moderate 
quantities of the gas cause vertigo, 
headache, rush of blood to the 


colorless, highly 


of cyanogen com- 


also through 


head, oppression of the chest, pal- 


volatile _ fluid, of 


pounds and inor- 


the epidermis. 


pitation of the heart, a sensation 


penetrating, pun- 


ganic processes 




"of constriction at the throat with 


gent, and irritating 


(when organic resi- 




pharyngeal irritation and dryness. 


odor. 


dua are heated 




nausea and vomiting, difficult. 


Natrium cyanid 
(NaCN), Cyanid 


with alkalis) ; re- 
duction of residu- 




gasping respiration, with reten- 
tion of consciousness. To the stage 


of potassium 
cyanid (KCN): A 


um to gas; blast 
furnaces; gas works 




of dyspnea succeeds that of spasm 
with cold, perspiring skin, convul- 


colorless salt, form- 


(purification proc- 




sions and involuntary micturition, 


ing crystals which, 


ess), dye works and 




with loss of consciousness. In the 


after fusion, re- 


printeries; photo- 




Tstage of asphyxiation there are tem- 


crystallize, but' 


graphic establish- 




'porary suspension of respiration. 


readily d e c o m- 


ments; manufacture 




retardation of the heart's action, 


poses on exposure 


of celluloid. 




lividity of the skin and mucous 


to the air, setting 






membranes, lowering of the body 


free hydrocyanic 






temperature; with inhalation of 


acid. 






large quantities, the stage of as- 


Rhodanic (sulpho- 
cyanic, SCN) 






phyxia supervenes immediately. 
Dilation of the pupils; loss of con- 


compounds : Poi- 






sciousness; a few gasping inspira- 


sonous dose of the 






tions; cyanosis of the skin and 


dilute hydrocyanic 






mucous membranes; collapse; 


acid, 0.06 g. 






death. 








CHRONIC POISONING (Very 








doubtful) . Headache, vertigo, un- 


t 






steadiness of gait; nausea, loss of 








appetite, disturbances of the gas- 








tric and intestinal functions; slow- 








ing of the pulse; albuminuria. 



Special measures of relief: Fresh air; artificial respiration; administration of oxygen; cold affusions 
and friction; hypodermatic injection of ether, camphor; if the poison has been taken into the stom- 
ach, give emetics, then immediately rinse out that viscus with water, with the addition of one- 
quarter to one-half of 1 per cent, of potassium permanganate. Kobert recommends a 3 per cent, 
solution of hydrogen binoxid for subcutaneous injection, in doses of 1 cubic centimeter, at different 
points in the body. But on the other hand HzOz is deemed unsuitable, and an alkalin solution of 
ferric sulphate, or an antidote for arsenic with some ferric salt, is indicated as the best remedy. 
To control the convulsions give morphia hypodermically. 



HEALTH HAZARDS IN OCCUPATIONS 



283 



Designation of the 
substance 


Branches of industry 
in which poisoning 
occurs 


Mode of 
entrance 
into the body 


Symptoms of poisoning 


DIAZOMETHANE, 
CH 2 NHj: A very 
volatile yellow gas. 


In methylizing of 
every kind. 


As gas, through 
the lungs; ef- 
fect on the 
skin. 


ACUTE POISONING. Severe head- 
ache; great physical depression; 
grave lesions of the lungs; other 
effects like those of dimethyl sul- 
phate. 


DIMETHYL SUL- 
PHATE, (CHs)e- 
SCh: A colorless 
oily fluid. 


Production of methyl 
ethers, methyl esters 
and methyl amines; 
manufacture of ar- 
tificial perfumes. 


In the form of 
gas, through 
the respira- 
tory organs; 
direct action 
on the skin. 


Strongly corrosive effect on the skin 
and mucous membranes; burns; 
pains in the nape of the neck and 
in the thoracic cavity; hoarseness; 
destruction of the mucous mem- 
brane and aspiration of the broken- 
down products into the lungs; lach- 
rimation, conjunctivitis, formation 
of erosion-eschars, and edema, 
photophobia and parenchymatous 
clouding of the cornea; even coma, 
convulsions, paralysis, and a fatal 
outcome. 


DINITROBENZOL 
or BINITROBEN- 
ZOL, CeHUNOzh: 
When pure, crystal- 
lizing as slender, 
colorless, rhombic 
needles; when im- 
pure, in yellow, 
crystalline cakes. 
(See Nitrobenzol.) 








FORMALDEHYD, 
CH 2 O: A liquid, 
volatilizing as a 
gaseous vapor of 
penetrating odor; 
10 per cent, formal- 
dehyd, formalin. 


Disinfection; manu- 
facture of many 
organic p r e p a r a- 
tions, especially in 
the coal-tar color- 
industry; preserv- 
ing and hardening 
of human and _zoo- 
logical preparations. 


In the form 
of vapor, 
through the 
respiratory 
organs and 
mucous mem- 
branes. 


Intense irritation of the skin and 
mucous membranes. 






ammo 



logical preparations. 

Special measures of relief: Do not enter the disinfection chamber until after the introduction of 
imonia and thorough ventilation. 



HYDROCHLORIC 


Treatment with 


Action on the 


As a rule the rarefaction of the hy- 


ACID, HC1: Pure 


chlorin of previ- 


skin and 


drochloric acid gas is so consider- 


HC1 is a colorless 


ously ^roasted ores; 


nasal mucous 


able in the industries where it is 


gas that fumes 


potteries (glazing), 


membrane ; 


used to any extent worth mention- 


when open to the 


enameling works, 


seldom in 


ing that only in exceptional cases 


air, forming a dense, 


tlass factories, sol- 


vaporous 


do injurious effects occur, such as 


acid, white mist. 


ering; in the chem- 


form, affect- 


irritation of the respiratory organs. 


The crude commer- 


ical industry, manu- 


ing the respi- 


A proportion of 0.05 per mille of 


cial hydrochloric 


facture of chlorid 


ratory organs. 


hydrochloric acid in the air is well 


acid is, for the most 


and sulphate of 




borne, but only for a short time. A 


part, impure, con- 


soda.of muriatic acid, 




greater concentration (as well as 


taining arsenic, 


stannic acetate, etc. ; 




the often-repeated inhalation even 


among other admix- 


manufacture of arti- 




of moderate quantities in manu- 


tures. 


ficial iertilizers; 




facturing industries) causes chronic 




bleachng, shoddy 




irritation of the mucous mem- 




industry, cotton- 




branes to which the vapor has 




print works; car- 




access. There result also catarrh 




bonizing of mate- 
rials; india rubber 




of the conjunctiva, coryza, pharyn- 
geal, laryngeal, and bronchial 




industry. 




catarrh, together with dental 








caries. 








Concentrated HC1 vapor may 








cause unconsciousness and death. 



Special measures of relief: Removal of the patient from the dangerous atmosphere; inhalation of a 
finely nebulized solution of sodium bicarbonate. 1 



1 1n addition, for acute poisoning, give atropin 
pneumogastric. W. H. R. 



grain) subcutaneously to stimulate the 



284 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



Designation of the 
substance 



Branches of industry 

in which poisoning 

occurs 



Mode of 

entrance 

into the body 



Symptoms of poisoning 



HYDROFLUORIC 
ACID or FLUORIC 
ACID, HF: A color- 
less gas, of pungent 
odor and forming a 
dense mist in the 
air. 



Production in chem- In the form of 
ical works; glass gas, through 
factories, etching the respira- 
on glass; laborato- tory organs, 
ries of the pottery In a fluid 
industry; extrac- state it has 
tion of the fluor- an immediate 
ides of antimony action on the 
(substitute for tar- skin and 
tar emetic in _dye- mucous mem- 
works) ;fertilizer branes. 
factories (extrac- 
tion of phosphor- 
ites) ; bleaching of cane for chair seats 
and extraction of its silicates. 



Intense irritation of the eyelids and 
conjunctiva, coryza, bronchial ca- 
tarrh with spasmodic cough, ulcera- 
tion of the nostrils, gums, and oral 
mucous membrane; also painful 
ulcers of the cuticle, erosions and 
formation of vesicles; suppuration 
under the finger nails. 



LEAD, Pb: A bluish 
white, highly lus- 
rous metal, which 
on exposure to the 
air acquires a gray 
tarnish. 

Lead alloys. 

Lead colors, other 
lead compounds. 

Lead sulphuret 
(galena) is held to 
be nonpoisonous, 
and some lead 
polysilicates are 
regarded as nearly 
so. 



Smelting of lead and 
lead-bearing ores; 
manufacture and 
use of articles made 
o f metallic lead 
(sheets, plates, 
boxes, pipes, wire, 
cans, flasks, pails, 
kettles, faucets, re- 
torts); manufacture 
and use of lead 
alloys, as type 
metal, shot (tin foil), 
for example, in type 
foundries, tin shops, 
bottle-cap factories, 
composing rooms, 
file-cutting works; 
manufacture and 
use of lead colors 
and other lead 
compounds, as lith- 
arge, white lead, 
Krems white, red 
lead, lead chro- 
mates, acetate of 
lead, lead chloride in 
lead color works 
and storage-battery 
factories, in the 
trade of painter, 
house painter and 
yarnisher; plants for 
installation of gas 
and water; in the 
ceramic industry, 
the textile industry, 
etc. 

It is to be ob- 
served that mate- 
rials containing lead 
may occasionally be 
employed in every 
industry, and that 
lead colors and 
other lead com- 
pounds a,re often 
met with in _ trade 
under fanciful 
names. 



Absorption of 
lead and lead 
compounds 
occurs 
(1) In isolated 
cases through 
the skin; 
whether 
through the 
uninjured 
skin is doubt- 
ful; (2) in the 
form of vapor 
(very finely 
divided oxid 
of lead), and 
as dust, 
through the 
respiratory 
organs; (3) 
by way of the 
digestive 
t r a c t b y 
means of con- 
tami nated 
f o o d a n d 
drinks (for 
ex a m p 1 e , 
cigars, ciga- 
rettes, chew- 
ing tobacco). 
By inhalation 
the d u st , 
laden with 
lead, finds 
lodgment in 
the upper res- 
piratory tract, 
and, mixed 
with saliva, 
may reach 
the stomach. 



Industrial lead poisoning appears as 
a rule in the chronic form and 
arises from continuous absorption 
of the most infinitesimal quantities 
of lead during a protracted period 
of time (weeks, months, and even 
years) . 

The beginning is insidious, with 
disturbances of the general health, 
a sense of weakness, decline of 
bodily strength; sallow, pale-yel- 
lowish hue of the skin. Distress in 



the region of the stomach, eructa- 
tions, lack of appetite, metallic 
taste in the mouth and fetid breath. 
The blue line (blue-gray discolor- 
ation of the gums) which, however, 
may be absent, even in the course 
of a severe attack; lead colic with 
most obstinate constipation, reten- 
tion of urine; plumbic arthralgia 
(lacerating, boring), occurring for 
the most part paroxysmally,. 
chiefly in the lower extremities, 
more rarely in the upper, often in- 
terpreted as a symptom of rheuma- 
tism of the joints; frequently, fibril- 
Jar trembling of the fingers. Typ- 
ical are the lead paralyses, of which 
disturbances of sensation (pares- 
thesia and anesthesia) take the 
precedence. Paralysis generally 
affects the extensor muscles of the 
arm and hand, with atrophic mani- 
festations; more_ rarely, the flexor 
muscles. Sometimes also there are 
paralyses of the extensors and flex- 
ors of the lower extremities or mus- 
cles of the shoulder. From experi- 
ence it is known that those groups 
of muscles are especially affected 
which are most used in the occupa- 
tional activity. Transient blind- 
ness, but also gradually progres- 
sive atrophy of the optic nerve; temporary loss of the 
special senses of smell and taste; violent, often fatally- 
ending disease of the brain (saturnine encephal- 
opathy), sometimes preceded only by slight premoni- 
tory symptoms, as irritability and headache, ringing 
in the ears, insomnia; more often, slowly increasing 
mental disturbances precede; epileptiform convul- 
sions, hallucinations; morbid changes in the blood 
vessels and of the heart and kidneys (contracted 
kidney); increase of blood pressure and granular 
degeneration of the red blood corpuscles. 

Disturbances in the sexual sphere in women; abor- 
tion, premature birth, low vitality of the children. 

Measures of relief : Discontinuance of work in lead at the slightest symptoms of lead poisoning. 
In lead colic, give first, by the mouth or suocutaneously, morphia, opium, or atropin; afterward, 
cathartics (castor oil or podophyllin) ; in paralysis, electrical treatment, massage and baths; in every 
case, strengthening diet, iodid of potassium, and sudorifices. 



HEALTH HAZARDS IN OCCUPATIONS 



285 



Designation of the 
substance 



Branches of industry 

in which poisoning 

occurs 



Mode of 

entrance 

into the body 



Symptoms of poisoning 



MANGANESE DI- 
O X I D , MnOz: 
Brown mineral (oc- 
curring chiefly as 
pyrolusite) . 



and grind- 



Breakini 

ing of manganese 
ore; sifting out of 
the refuse. 



In the form of 



dust, through 
the respira- 
tory organs. 



MnOs produces cumulative effects. 
After protracted action of the toxin 
the symptoms begin with dis- 
turbances of the general sensi- 
bility, general^ debility, languor, 
lancinating pains in the extremi- 
ties, in the small of the back and 
nape of the neck, creeping sensa- 
tions in the legs and numbness in 
the feet; salivation; tremor of the head, tongue, and hands; later, locomotqr 
disturbances with uncertain, stamping gait, and, ultimately, the impossi- 
bility of safe and sure progression. 

_ Affections of the voice (low, whispering) and of speech (indistinct, scan- 
ning) combined with flatness of tone; forced laughter and weeping and low- 
ering of intelligence. 

Sometimes dropsical effusion into the cellular tissue of the lower ex- 
tremities. 






MERCURY, Hg: A 


Mining and smelting 


Absorption 


Industrial mercurial poisoning is a 


silver-white, shin- 


of quicksilver; oc- 


through the 


chronic poisoning occasioned by 


ing metal,_ un- 


cupation of mirror 


uninjured 


work in this metal for a long period, 


changeable in the 


plater, amalgam 


skin; absorbed 


commonly weeks, months, years, or 


air, but evaporating 


gilding and silver- 


in the form 


decades. ^The first symptom is 


at house tempera- 


ing; manufacture 


of vapor and 


generally increased ptyalism, with 


ture. 


o f thermometers, 


as dust 


swelling and inflammation of the 


Mercury c o m- 


barometers, and 


(amalgam 


gums and of the buccal mucous 


pounds, amalgams 


manometers, i n- 


dust, dust of 


membrane, often with the forma- 


(alloyswith 


candescent electric 


the co m- 


tion of rodent ulcers, besides, there 


metals) . 


lamps, _ Roentgen 


pounds o f 


are, frequently, disturbances of 


Cinnabar (HgS) is 


and Hittorf tubes, 


mercury) . 


digestion, lassitude, and pallor. 


nonpoisonous. 


mercurial vapor 
lamps; manufac- 
ture of the salts of 




Associated with the further absorp- 
tion of mercury, "erethism" super- 
venes a peculiar psychic excita- 




mercury, a m a 1- 




bility (timorousness, bewilderment, 




gams, and colors, 




irritability) aside from the charac- 




pharmaceutic prod- 




teristic mercurial tremor. In a 




ucts, antiseptic dyes, 




state of complete repose this tremor 




inflammable ma- 




is not noticeable, and manifests it- 




terials, and explo- 




self only on voluntary movement, 




sives; employment 




causing a quite distinctive, irregu- 




of the salts _ of 




lar tremulousness of the fingers. 




mercury, especially 




hands, arms, and finally, also, of 




in the hare's fur 


the legs and head. In strictly chronic cases the stom- 




business and felt-hat 


atitis and erethism are absent, and only the tremor is 




manufacture; pho- 


observable. Death may result in the worst cases in 




tography and steel 


consequence of the violent tremor and spasms affect- 




engraving. 


ing the entire body; in other cases, increasing weak- 






ness. Cachexia. 



Special _ measures of relief: Relinquishment of the employment; nutritious diet; vapor baths; 
potassium iodid. 



METHYL AL- 
COHOL (wood 
spirit), CHOH: A 
colorless fluid, of 
faint odor. 



Produced by the dry Ab sorpt i o n 
distillation of through the 
wood; used in the digestive or- 
preparation of var- gans, also 
nish, lacquer, pol- through the 
ish, and perfumes; skin; in the 
for the denaturing form of va- 
of spirits; for the por through 
production of coal- the organs of 
tar colo_rs and phar- respiration, 
maceutical prepa- 
rations; a solvent 
for anilin dyes in 
cotton print manufacture; used in 
combination with shellac_for coating 
the interior of casks; in cabinet- 
making and furniture polishing. 



The effect is very persistent; nausea, 
headache, ringing in the ears, weak- 
ness of the muscles, insomnia, deli- 
rium, difficulty of breathing, and 
sometimes deafness; inflammation 
of the throat and the mucous mem- 
brane of the air passages extending 
to the _ finest ramifications of the 
bronchial tubes; finally, death by 
paralysis of the respiratory appara- 
tus. Conjunctivitis; also serious 
affections of the _ retina and the 
optic nerve, resulting in blindness, 
even, from_ atrophy of this nerve. 1 
In chronic cases, fatty degenera- 
tion of the liver. 



Special^ measures of relief: The substitution of innocuous media for methyl alcohol in the denatur- 
ing of spirits. 



1 Permanent blindness and even a fatal issue may be caused by the ingestion of small quantites of 
wood spirit; hence the risk incurred in using cheap essences of vanilla and other flavoring extracts 
which contain methyl alcohol. W. H. R. 



286 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



Designation of the 
substance 


Branches of industry 
in which poisoning 
occurs 


Mode of 
entrance 
into the body 


Symptoms of poisoning 



METHYL BROMID, 
CHsBr: A colorless, 
gaseous body of 
aromatic odor. 
Methyl iodid, iodin 
methylate, CH 3 I: 
An ethereal, color- 
less fluid, of some- 
what penetrating 
odor, soon becom- 
ing yellow on _ex- 
posure to the air. 



Employed _in anilin 
dye factories. 



In the form of 
gas, through 
the respira- 
tory organs 
and the mu- 
cous mem- 
branes. 



In mild cases, vertigo, headache, and 
transient stupor, with diplopia and 
a sensation of rigidity in the mus- 
cles of the eyes. 

In a severe case there was ob- 
served loss of consciousness continu- 
ing eight weeks, with staring look, 
pallor of the skin, retarded pulse, 
and obstinate constipation. Dur- 
ing brief intervals of wakefulness 
there was unrest with increasing 
excitability. (Grandhomme.) 



NITRANILIN, CeEh- 
NHzNOz: Forming 
long, yellow crys- 
tals. See Anilin. 



NITROBENZOL 

(mirbane oil, imita- 
tion bitter-almond 
oil), CeHsNCh: A 
colorless, highly re- 
fractive fluid, hav- 
ing an odor like that 
of bitter almonds; 
and all nitro com- 
pounds of benzol 
and its homologues, 
e.g., dinitrobenzol, 
dinitrochlorobenzol, 
nitrotoluol, nitro- 
phenol, nitronaph- 
thalene, etc. The 
most of the nitro 
and chloro com- 
pounds are the 
more poisonous. 



Coal-tar color indus- 
try and those es- 
tablishments i n 
which its interme- 
diate products are 
manufactured, a s 
in explosives works, 

Eerfumery and soap 
xctories, pharma- 
ceutical laboratories, 
etc. 



(1) Absorption 



Poisoning by all of the designated 



takes place, substances is pretty nearly the 
first of all, same, qualitatively; quantitatively, 
through the however, differences exist, so that 
skin, both the the larger proportion they contain 
uninjured of the nitro (NOz) groups the more 
and e s p e - virulent they are likely to be. The 
c i a 1 1 y the nitrochloro compounds are very 
pathologically much more dangerous than the 
altered skin, simple nitro compounds. The 
particularly first toxic symptoms may ap- 
in the case pear within a few hours (8 to 24) 
of profuse after absorption of the poison, 
perspira- ACUTE POISONING. (a) In mild 

t i o n ; ( 2 ) cases: Malaise, headache, giddiness, 
through the nausea, loss of appetite, costive- 
respiratory ness, burning sensation of the skin 
organs; (3) and mucous membrane, 
through the (b) In severe cases: A feeling of 

digestive or- anxiety, disturbances of sensation, 
gans. like formication on the legs and fur- 

riness of the soles of the feet, ring- 
ing in the ears; disturbances of 
co-ordination (reeling gait, stam- 
mering speech), increased excitabil- 
ity of the reflexes, convulsions and 
a state of general spasm ; later, with 
decline _of sensibility, symptoms of 
paralysis; vomiting; odor of the 
vomitus and of the exhaled breath 
like that of bitter-almond oil; ic- 
terus of the skin; at first increased, 
afterward diminished activity of 
the heart, with lowered tension of 
the pulse; visual derangements 
(amblyopia, optic neuritis); blood 
viscid, brown to deep dun color; 
diminution^ of the red corpuscles 
and alterations in their form ; in the 
advanced cases, formation of met- 
hemoglobin. The ^course of se- 
vere cases is exceptionally varied; 
after intermissions, exacerbations 
may occur with a finally fatal re- 
sult. Death may occur also in con- 
nection with deep insensibility, without other symptoms. The symptoms 
which point to blood changes predominate, in severe poisoning, over the 
nervous symptoms. 

SUBACUTE AND CHRONIC POISONING. Icterical skin, which gradually be- 
comes cyanotic; methemoglobin formation; symptoms of degeneration and 
regeneration of the red blood corpuscles; general debility, anemia. The clin- 
ical picture is similar to that of pernicious anemia. In the urine the poi- 
soned corpuscles are sometimes demonstrable, and finally the presence of 
hematophorphyrin and of albumin. 

Measures of relief : Immediate removal from the workroom; inhalation of oxygen; artificial res- 
piration; eventually bloodletting; stimulants, nonalcoholic; prohibition of the use of alcoholic drinks 
luring working hours; avoidance of the same, also, outside of employment. 



HEALTH HAZARDS IN OCCUPATIONS 



287 



Designation of the 
substance 


Branches of industry 
in which poisoning 
occurs 


Mode of 
entrance 
into the body 


Symptoms of poisoning 


KITROG LYCERIN, 


Manufacture of ex- 


Inhalation of 


Extraordinary toxicity, somewhat 


CaHiCWNOz), glyc- 


plosives (dynamite, 


the vapor; 


like effects of prussic acid; just a 


erin trinitrate: An 


nitro-cellulose) ; in 


absorption 


few drops are deadly, and even 


oily, vaporable, 


the use of dynamite. 


through the 


mere contact with products con- 


colorless fluid, with- 




unin j ured 


taining nitroglycerin may cause 


out odor. 




skin, mucous 


poisoning; severe headache, dis- 






membranes, 


turbance of the intellect, facile syn- 






and wounds 


cope, vertigo; burning in the throat 






of the skin. 


and stomach; nausea, vomiting. 






In the explo- 
sion of dyna- 


colic; symptoms of paralysis in the 
muscles of the head and eyes, as well 






m i t e the 


as in the lower extremities; brady- 






action of car- 


cardia and retarded respiration, 




,_ 


bon dioxid 


stertorous breathing and dyspnea; 






and nitrous 


cyanosis; coldness of the extremi- 






monoxid, as 


ties; injection of the conjunctiva; 






well as that 


reddening of the countenance. 






of undecom- 


In the mixing and sifting of dyna- 






posed nitro- 


mite: Obstinate ulcers under the 






glycerin i a 


nails and on the finger tips, erup- 






present. 


tion on the plantar aspect of the 








feet and interdigital spaces of both 








hands, with extreme dryness and 








formation of fissures. 








Explosion of nitroglycerin with 








little gas: Trembling, determination 








of blood to the head, vomiting, 








headache. 








Explosion of nitroglycerin with 








much gas: Vertigo, asphyxia, cya- 








nosis, motor paralysis and loss of 








consciousness; intermittent, sterto- 








rous respiration, coldness of the 








skin, small pulse; after recovery of 


f 






consciousness, debility, nausea. 








vomiting, headache, intermittent 








pulse, and finally death. 








CHRONIC POISONING. Disturb- 








ances of digestion, trembling, neu- 








ralgia. 



Special measures of relief: Absolute avoidance of contact. 



HITRONAPHTHA- 
L E N E, CioH 7 - 
(NO 5 ): A yellow, 
friable, crystalline 
mass of strongly 
aromatic odor. (See 
Nitrobenzol.) 









288 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



Designation of the 
substance 


Branches of industry 
in which poisoning 
occurs 


Mode of 
entrance 
into the body 


Symptoms of poisoning 


NITROUS GASES 


Nitrous gases are 


In gaseous 


Susceptibility to the effects of 


(low degrees of oxi- 


produced by the 


form, through 


nitrous gases fluctuates consider- 


dation of nitrogen, 


action of nitric 


the respira- 


ably. Persons who suffer from 


which appear simul- 
taneously) : Nitro- 


acid on deoxidat- 
ing substances of 


tory organs. 


diseases of the respiratory organs 
are especially susceptible; not in- 


gen protoxid, NO; 


various kinds, prin- 




frequently the continual inhalation 


nitrogen deutoxid, 


cipally on metals 




of small quantities, for many con- 


1MO2; nitrogen tri- 


(iron, lead, zinc, 




secutive years even, occasions no 


oxid, NzOs; anhy- 


etc.). on organic 




serious disturbances of the health. 


drous nitrous acid 


substances (coal 




A pale, sallow complexion and 


(HNO 2 ). Red fum- 


dust, wood, straw. 




chronic bronchial catarrh may be 


ing nitric acid is a 


paper, textile fab- 




deemed, nevertheless, the usual 


saturated solution 


rics, woolen refuse, 




consequences of occupational in- 


of NO4 in crude 


etc.) as well as many 




halation of very moderate quan- 


NHOj. NO is a 


other substances 




tities of nitrous gases. Often, 


colorless gas which 


(pyrites, sulphurous 




however, larger quantities of the 


under the influence 


acid and its salts, 




poisonous gases are borne for hours 


of atmospheric oxy- 


soda, sediment, 




together (6 to 8 hours) without 


gen, is readily 


hydrochloric acid, 




discomfort; when suddenly, after 


transformed into 


iron chlorids, sul- 




a long interval without disturb- 


brown nitrogen di- 
oxid. Below 20 


phate of iron, etc.); 
in the preparation 




ance, ominous symptoms appear. 
Symptoms of irritation in the air 


C. NiOa is a blue 


of nitric acid, its 




passages are manifest, as a feeling 


fluid; at the ordi- 


combinations and 




of constriction of the larynx, spas- 


nary temperature it 


salts, among which 




modic cough, oppression in the 


separates into NO 


the nitrous salts 




chest, labored respiration, anxiety. 


and NOz. 


also are to be in- 




cold_ perspiration on the face, pro- 




cluded; metal etch- 




trusion of the eyes, gasping speech. 




ing and metal re- 




paroxysms of coughing, bluish dis- 




fining; stamp mills 




coloration of the countenance, cold- 




and mints; galvano- 




ness of the extremities. 




technics; nitrifica- 




Consciousness is at first unim- 




tion in chemical 




paired, but with increasing diffi- 




works and manu- 




culty of breathing it becomes 




factories of explo- 




dimmed; injury to the teeth. The 




s i v e s ; celluloid 




urine is scanty, brown in color, con- 




manufacture; sul- 




taining hemoglobin and albumin. 




phuric acid manu- 




Death results from edema of the 




facture; production 




lungs. In very severe cases met- 




of picric acid, anilin 




hemoglobin is observed, and then 




oolors, nitrocellu- 




a general systemic poisoning may 




lose (gun cotton, 




result. 




collodion cotton). 








xyloidin, n i t r o - 








starch, nitro-jute 








dynamite, abelite, 








nitromannite, n i - 








trosaccharose, vis- 








cosin, etc.; nitric 








acid manufacture 








and storage; prep- 








arations of thor- 








ium and cerium; 








bleaching materials 








(oils, etc.) hat mak- 








ing (maceration _ of 








the hair) ; etching 








and engraving on 








copper (etching of 








the plate) ; dyeing 








and printing (fixer 








and mordant). 







Special measures of relief: Immediate removal from the noxious atmosphere; inhalation of oxygen; 
finally, bloodletting and infusion of normal salt solution. 



HEALTH HAZARDS IN OCCUPATIONS 



289 



Designation of the 
substance 



OXALIC ACID, Cr- 
H2O<: It forms 
large, pellucid 
crystals. 



Branches of industry 

in which poisoning 

occurs 



Manufacture of ox- 
alic acid; polish- 
ing of metals, es- 
pecially of copper 
and brass utensils; 
used in dye works, 
chemical cleansing 
plants (rust and ink 
stains) ; straw hat 
manufacture and 
straw braiding. 



Mode of 

entrance 

into the body 



In the form of Opalescent or bluish discolorations 
dust, through (with brittleness) of the nails; 
the respira- blood stasis in the hands; corrosive 
tory organs. action on the mucous membrane 
of the esophagus, of the stomach 
and bowel; weakness of the heart; 
convulsions and spasms. 

However,_ industrial poisonings 
by oxalic acid are exceedingly rare. 



PETROLEUM: _ A Production of oil; re- In the form The vapors of petroleum cause a pro- 
mixture of various fining of the crude of vapor, found acute poisoning with a con- 
hydrocarbons of the oil; furniture pol- through the dition of inebriation; shouting, 
methane, ethyl, and ishing by use of so- respiratory reeling, and prolonged sleep with- 
aromatic series. called polishing oil. organs. As a out any recollection of what has 

fluid it has a happened ; in severe cases, loss of 
direct action consciousness, lividity of the coun- 
on the skin. tenance, staring look and con- 
tracted pupils, almost impercep- 
tible pulse, asphyxia. The chronic 
effect of petroleum vapor causes 
numbness and irritation of the 
Schneiderian membrane. 

In general, the symptoms of the 
action of petroleum resemble those 
resulting from the action of ben- 
zin. By reason of the high boiling 
point of petroleum there are pro- 
duced, in the extraction of paraf- 
fin butter, _in the handling of crude 
paraffin, in the emptying of 
retorts, and in the filling of casks 
with petroleum, obstinate inflam- 
mations of the hand in the form 
of acne (nodules, pustules, and 
boils). 

Special measures of relief: Removal into the fresh air; in collapse, a tepid bath with cold affusions; 
subcutaneous injections of camphorated oil. 



Symptoms of poisoning 



PHENOL, CeHiOH 


Anthracite coal tar 


Action on the 


Erosion of the skin, which by great 


(carbolic acid) : A 


distillation; produc- 


epidermis 


extension may lead to severe inter- 


white crystalline 
mass, and its 


tion of picric acid 
and of many organic 


and the di- 
gestive tract. 


nal injuries; symptoms of degenera- 
tion in the blood and in the inter- 


homologues, e.g.. 


aromatic c o m - 




nal organs (nephritis) ; gangrene, 


cresol, lysol, and 


pounds; used in dye- 




icterus, collapse. 


their derivatives. 


ing, calico printing; 








manufacture o f 








lampblack, in photo- 








gen factories; im- 








pregnating wood 








with tar and oil of 








tar; surgical dress- 








ing industry. 






PHENYLHYDRA- 


A by-product in the 


Absorption by 


Obstinate vesicular eruption on the 


ZIN, CcHsNH- 


manufacture o f 


the skin; ac- 


skin, with itching and burning; 


NHz: A yellowish, 


antipyrin from ani- 


tion on the 


diarrhea, loss of appetite; granular 


oily fluid, shading 


lin; manufacture of 


skin. 


degeneration of the blood cor- 


into brown, of 


organic compounds. 




puscles; formation of methemo- 


pungent odor. 






globin; a sense of general malaise. 



19 



290 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



Designation of the 
substance 


Branches of industry 
in which poisoning 
occurs 


Mode of 
entrance 
into the body 


Symptoms of poisoning 


PHOSGENE, CO- 


In the manufacture 


In the form 


Until the present time only the acute 


Ch (carbon oxy- 
chlorid) : A color- 


of phosgene and its 
use for the produc- 


o f vapor, 
through the 


form of poisoning has been recog- 
nized. The first symptoms of ill- 


less gas, of . suffo- 


tion of organic 


respiratory 


ness sometimes appear only after 


cating odor. 


compounds. 


organs. 


many hours. _ By means of the hy- 
drochloric acid arising from the de- 








composition of_ the gases in the 








lungs, destruction of lung tissue 








results, with difficulty of breath- 








ing, paralysis of the lungs, and pul- 








monary edema. A fatal outcome 








is often observed. 



Special measures of relief: Inhalation of oxygen and medical attendance immediately after breath- 
ing the phosgene gas. 



PHOSPHORUS, P: 
A colorless, trans- 
parent substance; 
on exposure to the 
light, translucent 
and of a yellowish, 
waxy luster. In 
the air it is lumin- 
ous, and when 
heated in closed 
iron crucibles to a 
temperature rang- 
ing from 250 to 
300C. it is con- 
verted into red or 
amorphous phos- 
phorus, which is un- 
affected by the air. 
The yellow or white 
_phpsphorus is very 
poisonous; the red, 
nonpoisonous. 



Extraction of phos- 
phorus from phos- 
phorites and cop- 
rolites, bone-black 
(refuse of sugar 
mills), bone-ash (ref- 
use of meat extract 
manufacture) ; pro- 
duction of phosphor- 
bronze, of phos- 
phorus compounds, 
igniting agents, 

matches, and tar 
colors. 



In the form 
o f vapor, 
through the 
respiratory 
organs ; into 
the digestive 
canal by 
means of food 
contaminated 
by the 
fingers; ac- 
tion on the 
skin. 



As industrial poisoning it occurs only 
in the chronic form, occasioned by 
the absorption of very minute par- 
ticles of the poison for a period of 
months, generally, indeed, of years. 
Symptoms of the disease some- 
times first appear long after relin- 
quishment of the occupation. 

It is doubtful whether chronic 
phosphorism occurs (that is, gen- 
eral systematic poisoning by phos- 
phorus). 

Chronic phosphorus poisoning 
uniformly affects the bones of the 
face, beginning with inflammation 
and sclerosis of the bones and of the 
periosteum; then, by extension of 
the suppurative process, necrosis 
results. This most frequently at- 
tacks that portion of the alveolar 
process of the jawbone which is 
least protected against infection. 

Swelling and ulcerations on the 
gums and the buccal mucous mem- 
brane, pain even in the sound 
teeth, loosening and falling out of 
the teeth, infiltration cf board like 
hardness occurs in the soft parts 
surrounding the jaw; suppuration 
and destruction of the jawbone (ne- 
crosis) with numerous fistulous 
channels which here and there bur- 
row through the cheek. Hand in 
hand with the ulcerative processes 
go psteoplastic formations, so that, 
while suppurative destruction of 
tissue takes place at one point, at 
another the formation of new bone 
is going on. The under jaw is more 
often affected than the upper; here 
the process goes on insidiously 
without formation of new bone but 
with local destruction of the part. 
The palatal and orbital bones may 
be attacked with ulceration and 
shrinking of the eyeball. By ex- 
tension of the inflammation along 
the sheaths of the vessels there re- 
sult meningeal inflammation and 
cerebral a.bscess. 

There is remarkable brittleness 
of the bones, decline of appetite, 
pallid complexion, diarrhea, ema- 
ciation. Sometimes there is amy- 
loid degeneration of the abdominal 
organs. Death by sepsis. 





291 



Designation of the 
substance 


Branches of industry 
in which poisoning 
occurs 


Mode of 
entrance 
into the body 


Symptoms of poisoning 


PHOSPHORUS 


In chemical factories. 


Inhalation of 


Irritation of the mucous membranes, 


SESQUISULPHID, 

P 2 Si: A grayish 




sulphuretted 
hydrogen in 


especially obstinate conjunctivitis. 
Through the influence of dust in 


yellow, odorlese and 




the fusion of 


the grinding and sifting of the com- 


tasteless substance. 




phosphorus 


position there appear symptoms of 






and sulphur 


CS2 poisoning. To be noticed also 






as well as in 


is the danger of poisoning by sul- 






the drawing 


phuretted hydrogen (See under 






off of the 


Sulphuretted hydrogen.) 






molten mass 








from the ket- 








tles; dust in 








the grinding 
and sifting of 








the paste; bi- 








carburet of 








sulphur va- 








pors in the 








extraction of 








yellow phos- 








phorus and 








regeneration 








of CS 2 . 





Special measures of relief: Prevention of the contamination of phosphorus sesquisulphid with 
yellow phosphorus; precautions against injury from the effects of sulphuretted hydrogen. 



PHOSPHURETED 
HYDRO GEN, 


In the extraction of 
phosphorus; in the 


In the form of 
gas, through 


An anxious, oppressed feeling in the 
chest, changing to a burning, lan- 


PHs: A colorless 


preparation of red 


the respira- 


cinating pain; affections of the 


gas of nauseating 


phosphorus and 


tory organs. 


head, vertigo, tinnitus aurium; 


odor. 


the sesquisulphid 




general debility; loss of appetite; 




of phosphorus; in 




great thrist. Death occurs with- 




the reduction of 




out convulsions, through the effect 




iron silicate con- 




of the poison on the blood. 




taining phosphorus 








by the action 








of moisture; in the 








production of acety- 








lene with calcium 








carbid that contains 








an admixture of cal- 








cium phosphate. 






PICRIC ACID, CeH 2 


Chemical works, dye- 


In the form of 


Poisonings with picric acid are rare; 


(OH)(NO 2 ) 3 : Tri- 
nitrophenol in a 


houses; manufac- 
ture of explosives 


dust, through 
the respira- 


when they occur there are itching, 
inflammation of the skin, vesicular 


pure state forms 


and powder (lydd- 


tory p a s- 


eruption, yellow pigmentation of 


pale yellow, bitter 


ite, melinite) ; pro- 


sages ; direct 


the epidermis and of the conjunc- 


tasting, foliate, me- 


jectile factories, fil- 


action on the 


tiva, inflammation of the buccal 


tallic crystals. 


ling shops. 


skin. 


mucous membrane, bitter taste. 








disturbances of digestion, epigas- 








tric pain, nausea, vertigo, diarrhea, 








and jaundice; picric acid decom- 








poses the constituents of the blood. 








By the penetration of dust into 








the nostrils, sneezing and nasal 








catarrh are occasioned. 


PYRIDIN, C 6 H5N: 


In its manufacture 


In the form 


Catarrh of the mucous membranes; 


A colorless fluid of 


out of coal tar and 


of vapor, 


hoarseness, irritation, and choking 


pungent and char- 


bone tar; in the use 


through the 


sensation in the throat; headache, 


acteristic odor. Its 


of denaturing spir- 


respiratory 


vertigo, flaccidity and trembling of 


homologues, py- 


its (shops for wood- 


organs. In a 


the extremities; difficulty of 


ridin bases. 


working, gilding, 


fluid state it 


breathing and clonic convulsions; 




and hat manufac- 


acts on the 


eczema of the hands. 




ture). 


skin of the 


Industrial poisoning by pyridin 






hands and 


is very rare. 






arms. 




SULPHUR CHLO- 


Solvent for sulphur 


In the form 


In contact with water and atmos- 


RID, SeCh: A 


and fats; caout- 


of vapor. 


Eheric moisture, it is resolved into 


thickish fluid, of 
brownish color and 


chouc and patent 
rubber industry. 


through the 
respiratory 


ydrochloric acid vapor. The 
vapor of sulphur chlorid is suffo- 


suffocating odor, 




organs. 


cating; if ingested, it excites vomit- 


fuming on exposure 






ing. 


to the air. 









Special measures of relief : Wearing of rubber gloves; instant removal of the patient from the 
poisonous atmosphere. 



292 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



Designation of the 
substance 


Branches of industry 
in w+iich poisoning 
occurs 


Mode of 
entrance 
into the body 


Symptoms of poisoning 


SULPHUR DIOXID, 
SULPHUROUS 


Roasting of sulphur- 
bearing ores; brick 


In the form of 
gas, through 


In moderate concentration sulphur- 
ous acid is borne without inconven- 


ACID, (HsSOs): Its 


works, ceramic in- 


the respira- 


ience or injury; persons accustomed 


anhydrid is SO, in 


dustry; manufacture 


tory organs. 


to the gas bear very well a propor- 


the form of gas; 


of sulphuric acid, 




tion of 0.003 to 0.004 per cent, of 


condensed, it be- 


of ultramarine; ex- 




SO in the air. 


comes fluid. The 


traction of bones. 




Susceptible persons, at the be- 


gas is of pungent 


manufacture of glue 




ginning of their employment in an 


odor and suffocat- 


and gelatine from 




atmosphere containing sulphurous 


ing effect. 


bones; disinfection; 




acid, manifest a transient irritation 




refining of petro- 




of the mucous membrane of the 




leum; manufacture 




respiratory organs and of the eyes. 




of candles; bleach- 
ing of wax, silk, and 




In its severe action there is spas- 
modic cough with secretion ot 




wool; chromium 




tenacious, often blood-tinged. 




tanning (two-vat 




mucus. The protracted effect of 




process) ; bleaching 




a high degree of concentration is 




of straw hats and 




livid discoloration of the mucous 




bristles; preserving 




membranes, bronchial catarrh. 




wine and fruits; 




croupous angina of the bronchi and 




fumigating hops and 




their branches, and inflammatory 




casks with sulphur; 




areas in the lungs; disturbances .of 




ice machines; heat- 




digestion. 




ing plants (burning of 








pyrite-bearing coal). 







Special measures of relief: Removal from the noxious atmosphere; admission of fresh air: artificial 
respiration; infusion of weak alkaline solutions (0.05 to 0.1 per cent, liquor natrii caustici [solution 
of caustic soda]) . 



SULPHURETED 


Blast furnace plants, 


In the form of 


In the less violent cases there are 


HYDROGEN, or 


in granulating the 


gas, through 


gastric distress, nausea, fetid 


HYDRIC S U L- 


slag; distillation of 


the respira- 


eructations, irritation and inflam- 


PHID, H 2 S: A col- 


sulphur waters; 


tory organs, 


mation of the conjunctiva; rarely. 


orless gas, having 


ultramarine works; 


as pure hy- 


erosion of the cornea, formation of 


the fetid odor of 


Leblanc soda and 


dric sulphid 


vesicles on the lips, irritating 


rotten eggs. 


chemical factories; 


gas; often 


cough, headache, and a sensation of 




in the manufac- 


found in ad- 


giddiness. In long continued in- 




ture of the com- 


mixture with 


halation convulsions and paralyses 




pounds of sulphur 


other gases 


occur. 




and phosphorus; 


(with COz, N, 


In severe cases there are contrac- 




sulphur metals 


NH<, and 


tion of the pupils, slowing of the 




(manufacture and 


carburetted 


pulse, Cheyne-Stokes respiration. 




use) ; sulphid of 


hydrogen); di- 


nystagmus, trismus, and tetanus. 




soda and sulphid 


rect action on 


With a very high proportion of 




of barium indus- 


the conjunc- 


sulphuretted hydrogen in the air 




try (manufacture 


tiva. 


a man suddenly falls, becomes un- 




of sulphid colors 




conscious, and dies without con- 




and dyeing with 




vulsions (apoplectic form). 




these) ; the extrac- 




CHRONIC POISONING. Conjunc- 




tion of cellulose 




tival catarrh; a sense of pressure 




(straw and wood) ; 




in the head and on the chest; 




in the waste wa- 




headache, debility, vertigo, nausea. 




ters of industries 




disturbances of digestion; sallow 




which make use 




complexion and emaciation; slow- 




of organic sub- 




ing of _the pulse; tendency to the 




stances; sedimen- 




formation of boils. 




tation tanks of 








sugar works; pre- 








cipitation of soda 








residua containing 








calcium sulphid: 








work in sewers, 








latrines, and dung 








pits; illuminating 








gas plants; flax 








retteries; tanneries. 







Special measures of relief: Before emptying of dung pits and the like, their contents should 
be thoroughly mixed with iron sulphate (5 kg. pro 1 cbm.) ; the emptying should be effected by 
mechanical apparatus; safety ropes to be attached to the workmen; prompt hoisting out of the 
unconscious workmen; removal of the soiled clothing; artificial respiration; administration of 
oxygen; hypodermics of ether or camphor. 



HEALTH HAZARDS IN OCCUPATIONS 



293 



Designation of the 
substance 


Branches of industry 
in which poisoning 


Mode of 
entrance 


Symptoms of poisoning 




occurs 


into the body 




SULPHURIC ACID, 


Manufacture of sul- 


In the form 


Inflammatory diseases of the res- 


HjSOi: A colorless, 
odorless, thick, oily 


phuric acid; accu- 
mulator factories 


of vapor, 
through the 


piratory organs (acute and chronic 
catarrh), inflammation of the 


fluid. 


(mold and charg- 


respiratory 


lungs; anorexia; decalcification of 




ing rooms) ; burn- 


organs. 


the bones (according to Lewin); 




ishing of iron, 




injury to the teeth through soften- 




steel, etc.; textile 




ing of the dentin. 




industry, hat fac- 




As a result of the bespattering 




tories; petroleum 




of the skin with concentrated 




distillation; facto- 




HjSCU there is severe pain, a 




ries for the manu- 




whitish discoloration of the skin. 




facture of pow- 




becoming brownish, with redden- 




dered fertilizers. 




ing and swelling of the surround- 








ing tissues; in cases of extensive 








scalds there are, ultimately, de- 








composition of the blood, forma- 








tion of ulcers of the duodenum, 








somnolence, and even death. 


TAR : A product ob- 


Manufacture of illu- 


It acts on the 


Tar itch under the form of diffuse 


tained by dry distil- 
lation, particularly 


minating gas; coke 
ovens; tar works; 


skin; in the 
form of 


acne, eczema or psoriasis, primarily 
on the upper extremities, later. 


of anthracite coal 


tar product facto- 


vapor, on the 


also, on the other parts of the 


and lignite. 


ries; plants for 


respiratory 


body; not infrequently on the 




wood preserving; 


organs. 


irritated portions of the skin there 




manufacture o f 




appear cancroid ulcers, especially 




roofing paper; use 




of the scrotum (among chimney 




for concrete pav- 




sweepers, paraffin and soot workers 




ing; painting of 




and briquet makers). 




metals; as a fuel; 




Together with the effect on the 




briquet factories. 




greater portion of the skin, there 








are also general symptoms: Loss 








of appetite, nausea, diarrhea, head- 








ache, numbness, vertigo, besides 








disturbances of the urinary blad- 








der (ischuria, strangury), also 








albuminuria and edema. 


TURPENTINE 


Manufacture of var- 


In the form of 


Irritation of the mucous membrane 


OIL: A mixture of 


nish, cement, lac- 


vapor, it acts 


of the eyes, of the nose (coryza). 


various terebinthin 


quer, sealing wax, 


upon the mu- 


and of the upper air passages (hem- 


hydrocarbons, Civ 


colors; tapestry 


c o u s mem- 


ming, cough, bronchial inflamma- 


His, differing in 


printing; trade of 


branes; in a 


tion) ; salivation ; besides, there are 


odor and in com- 


decorator, lacquerer, 


fluid state, it 


insensitiveness, giddiness, head- 


position according 


and house painter; 


acts on the 


ache. 


to the botanical 


as a cleansing agent 


epidermis. 


Prolonged action of the oil causes 


species from which 


in various industries. 




irritation of the kidneys, and then 


they are severally 






these organs excrete urine having 


denved. 






the odor of violets. 








Severe irritation of the skin is 








excited, especially by the so-called 








pine oil (Russian oil of turpentine). 



294 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



LIST OF INDUSTRIES IN WHICH POISONING MAY OCCUR 
(From Diseases of Occupation and Vocational Hygiene, Kober and Hanson) 



Branches of industry in which poisoning 
may occur 

Abelite, manufacture of 
Accumulator, electrical works 
Acetate of lead, manufacture of 
Acetylene production (if calcium 
carbid contains admixture of cal- 
cium phosphate) 

Acids, commercial manufacture of 
Acid, hydrochloric, manufacture of 
Acid, hydrofluoric, manufacture of 
Acid, muriatic, manufacture of 
Acid, picric, manufacture of 
Acid, stearic, manufacture of 
Acid, sulphuric, manufacture of 
Acid, valeric, manufacture of 
Air pollution 
Alcohol, denatured 
Alkaloids, manufacture of 
Amber workers 
Amalgam 

Ammonia salts, manufacture of 
Ammunition, manufacture of 

Amid compounds of benzol, etc. 

Amyl nitrite, manufacture of 

Anatomical preparations 

Anilin color dye factories: Anilin 
orange, aurantia, saffron yellow, 
Manchester yellow, Meldola dyes, 
corvulin, Bismarck blue, indulin, 
fast black 

Antimony alloys, and extraction of 

Antiseptic dressing, manufacture of 

Antipyrin, manufacture of 

Arsenic acid, manufacture of 

Arsenic mining 

Arsenical ores, smelting 

Artificial flowers and leaves 

Artificial ice and cold storage 

Asphalt, testing 

Aurantia dyes 

Automobilists 

Babbitting metal, and solder 

Bakers and confectioners 

Balloon filling with impure hydrogen 
gas 

Barium sulphid, manufacture of 

Barometers, manufacture of 



Designation of industrial poison 

Nitrous gases 

See Batteries, storage 

Lead 

Phosphuretted hydrogen 



Arsenic 

Hydrochloric acid 

Hydrofluoric acid 

Hydrochloric acid 

Picric acid 

Acrolein 

Nitrous gases, sulphur dioxid 

Amyl alcohol 

Carbon dioxid, carbon monoxid 

Benzol, methyl alcohol, pyridin 

Benzol 

Lead 

Mercury 

Ammonia 

Acrolein, antimony, lead (see also "Ex- 
plosives") 

Anilin 

Amyl alcohol 

Formaldehyd, phenol 

Anilin, arseniuretted hydrogen, antimony, 
hydrochloric acid, methyl bromid, nitro- 
benzol, nitrous gases 



Antimony, lead 

Mercury, phenol 

Benzin, phenylhydrazin 

Arsenic, arseniuretted hydrogen 

Arsenic 

Arsenic 

Arsenic, lead 

Ammonia 

Carbon disulphid 

Anilin dyestuffs 

Carbon monoxid, benzin 

Lead 

Carbon dioxid, carbon nionoxid 

Arseniuretted hydrogen 

Sulphuretted hydrogen 
Mercury 



HEALTH HAZAKDS IN OCCUPATIONS 



295 



LIST OF INDUSTRIES IN WHICH POISONING MAY OCCUR (Continued) 



Branches of industry in which poisoning 
may occur 

Batteries, storage, dry, manufacture of 



Batteries, storage, wet, manufacture of^ 

Beet sugar, manufacture of 

Benzin plants 

Benzol 

Bicycles, manufacture of 

Bismarck blue, manufacture of 

Bismuth, manufacture of 

Black anilin colors 

Blacksmiths 

Blast furnace workers 



Bleacheries 

Bleaching agents, manufacture of 

Bleaching agents, for bristles, cane, 
silk, straw hats, wax and wool 

Bleaching agents for cotton, linen 
and paper 

Bleaching agents for cane and extrac- 
tion of its silicates 

Bleaching agents for fats, oil and wax 

Bone ash, refuse of meat extract 

Bone-black, refuse of sugar refineries 

Bone-black, manufacture of 

Bone, extraction of 

Bone, rendering plants 

Bone tar, manufacture of 

Bookbinders 

Boot and shoe industry 

Bottle caps and capsules 

Box and card factories 

Brasiers 

Brass etching 

Brass instruments, musical 

Brass foundries 



Brass polishing 

Brass lacquer 

Breweries, fermentation rooms 

Breweries, fumigation of vats, and 

disinfection 

Breweries, shellacing casks 
Brick kilns, brick and tile makers 



Designation of industrial poison 

Benzol, creosote, hydrochloric acid, 
sulphuric acid, lead, mercury, pitch, 
zinc chlorid 

Chromium compounds 

Ammonia, sulphuretted hydrogen 

Benzin 

Benzol 

Amyl acetate 

Anilin dyestuffs 

Arsenic 

Anilin dyestuffs 

Acrolein, carbon monoxid, cyanogen 
compounds 

Carbon monoxid, cyanogen compounds, 
lead fumes, if lead is present in iron 
ore, sulphur dioxid, sulphuretted hy- 
drogen (in granulating slag) 

Chlorin, sulphur dioxid 

Nitrous gases 

Sulphur dioxid, chlorid of lime 



Hydrofluoric acid 

Chlorin, chromium compounds 

Phosphorus 

Phosphorus 

Ammonia, phosphorus 

Sulphur dioxid 

Acrolein, benzin 

Pyridin 

Carbon monoxid, methyl alcohol 

Benzin, methyl alcohol, lead, mercury 

Lead 

Arsenic, chrome and lead compounds 

Carbon monoxid 

Arsenic chlorid 

Lead 

Antimony, benzin, carbon dioxid, carbon 

monoxid, lead, phosphorus, sulphur 

dioxid, zinc fumes 
Lead, oxalic acid, sulphuric acid 
Amyl acetate, methyl alcohol 
Carbon dioxid 
Sulphur dioxid, zinc oxid 

Methyl alcohol 

Carbon dioxid, carbon monoxid, sulphur 
dioxid, lead glaze 



296 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



LIST OF INDUSTRIES IN WHICH POISONING MAY OCCUR (Continued) 



Branches of industry in which poisoning 
may occur 

Briquet factories for fuel 
Britannia metal 
Bronze workers 

Bronzing with nitrate of mercury 
Brown mineral mills 
Brunswick green 
Brush makers 

Bullets, dipping 

Bullets, manufacture of 

Burnishing of iron and steel 

Cable wire, manufacture of 

Cabinet makers 

Caoutchouc solvent and refining of 

Caisson work 
Calcining dolomite, etc. 
Calico printing 



Candles, manufacture of 
Cane factories 



Canning industry 

Carbolic acid 

Carbonated waters 

Carbon chlorid, manufacture of 

Carbon sulphurate, manufacture of 

Carbonizing of materials 

Carpet cleaning 

Carpet dye 

Cassel green 

Celluloid manufacture 



Cellulose, extraction from straw and 

wood 
Cements 
Ceramic industry 

Cerium, preparation of 
Chair factories, polishing 

Chalk, colored 

Charcoal burning 

Chemical cleansing establishments 



Designation of industrial poison 

Tar 

Antimony 

Antimony, lead, zinc, arsenic, acids, 

phosphorus 
Mercury 
Manganese 
Arsenic 
Anthrax, lead, methyl alcohol, tar (see 

also bleaching) 
Acrolein 
Antimony, lead 
Antimony, sulphuric acid 
Carbon disulphid, lead 
Anilin stains, chrome lead stains 
Benzol, carbon disulphid, sulphur 

chlorid 

Carbon dioxid 

Carbon dioxid, carbon monoxid 
Anilin, chromium, cyanogen and chlorin 

compounds, hydrochloric acid, lead, 

methyl alcohol, phenol, antimony, 

arsenic, carbon monoxid 
Sulphur dioxid 
Anilin stains, chlorin, chlorid of lime, 

hydrofluoric acid, methyl alcohol, 

sulphur dioxid 
Carbon monoxid, lead, acid fumes, 

sulphur dioxid 
Phenol 

Carbon dioxid 
Carbon disulphid 
Carbon disulphid 

Acid fumes and arseniuretted hydrogen 
Benzin 
Arsenic 
Arsenic 
Acetaldehyd, anilin and lead colors, 

cyanogen compounds, methyl alcohol, 

nitrous gases, sulphuretted hydrogen 
Nitrous gases, sulphuretted hydrogen 

Turpentine, benzin 
Hydrofluoric acid, lead, sulphur 

dioxid (see also Potteries) 
Nitrous gases 
Methyl alcohol, petroleum (see also 

Rattan Industry) 
Arsenic 

Carbon monoxid 
Benzin, benzol 






HEALTH HAZARDS IN OCCUPATIONS 



297 



LIST OF INDUSTRIES IN WHICH POISONING MAY OCCUR (Continued) 



Branches of industry in which poisoning 
may occur 

Chemical cleansing removal of ink 

and rust stains 
Chemical industry 



Chlorid of lead 

Chlorid of lime, manufacture of 

Chlorinating process 

Chlorin, organic products 

Chloroform manufacture 

Chromate of lead 

Chromate tanning 

Chromium colors and preparations 

Chromo-lithography 

Christmas ornaments, manufacture of 

Chrysoidin fast black, manufacture 

Church crosses, gilding 

Cinnabar 

Cleaning, dry 

Coal mines 

Coal oil 

Coal-tar anthracite distillation 

Coal-tar color industry 

Cochineal 

Coke ovens 

Collodion cotton 

Commercial acids, impure 

Colors, manufacture of for paints, 

etc. 

Colored chalk 
Colored lights 
Colored paper 
Colored pencils 
Combs, horn-celluloid 

Compositors 

Concrete paving 

Coopers 

Copper plate etching and engraving 

Copper polishing 

Copper smelting 

Copper workers 



Designation of industrial poison 

Oxalic acid 

Ammonia, anilin, carbon disulphid, 
chlorin, cyanogen compounds, hydro- 
chloric acid, methyl compounds, 
nitrous gases, nitrobenzol, phosphorus 
sesquisulphid, picric acid, sulphur 
dioxid, carbon monoxid, etc. 

Lead 

Chlorin, arseniuretted hydrogen 

Chlorin 

Chlorin 

Chlorid of lime 

Chromium, lead 

Chromium compounds 

Chromium compounds 

Arsenic, brass, chromium, lead, nitrous 
gases in etching, turpentine 

Arsenic 

Anilin dyestuffs 

Mercury 

Mercury 

Benzin, benzol 

Carbon dioxid, carbon monoxid (see 
mining) 

Petroleum 

Phenol, pyridin, tar 

Anilin, formaldehyd, methyl alcohol, 
nitro-benzol, nitrous gases 

Arsenic 

Ammonia, carbon monoxid, tar 

Nitrous gases 

Arsenic 

Benzin, benzol, chromium compounds, 
arsenic, lead, mercury, turpentine 

Arsenic 

Arsenic, antimony 

Arsenic, chromium, lead compounds 

Anilin dyestuffs 

Acetaldehyd, acid fumes, anilin, lead 
colors (see also Celluloid) 

Lead, antimony, arsenic, benzin 

Tar 

Methyl alcohol shellac 

Nitrous gases 

Oxalic acid 

Arsenic, carbon monoxid, sulphur dioxid 

Arseniuretted hydrogen, lead, nitric and 
sulphuric acid fumes 



298 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



LIST OF INDUSTRIES IN WHICH POISONING MAY OCCUR (Continued) 



Branches of industry in which poisoning 
may occur 



Designation of industrial poison 



Corvulin dye 
Cowper apparatus 
Creasote, cresol 
Cumol 
Cutlery industry 

Decorators and painters 



Decomposition gases 



Denaturing of spirits 
Dentists 

Deoxidating processes 
Diamond cutting and 

precious stones 

Dinitrobenzol, manufacture of 
Dinitrochlorobenzol, manufacture of 
Dinitro-compounds, manufacture of 
Dip for scabby sheep 
Disinfection 



Distilleries 

Dolomite calcining 

Drying processes by means of open 

fires 

Dung pits 
Dyes, antiseptic 
Dyes, organic, manufacture of 
Dyestuffs 

Dyeing and printing, fixer and 

mordant 
Dyeing and dye works 



Anilin dyestuffs 

Carbon monoxid 

Phenol 

Benzol 

Carbon monoxid, acid fumes, lead (see 
also Brass, Tempering, Tinning) 

Arsenic, benzin, chromium compounds, 
lead, mercury, methyl alcohol turpen- 
tine 

Ammonia, carbon dioxid, sulphuretted 
hydrogen 

Methyl alcohol, pyridin 

Mercury 

Nitrous gases 
setting of Lead, carbon monoxid 



Dynamite, manufacture of 
Electrical accumulator works 
Electric lamps, manufacture of 
Electric lamps, incandescent wire 
Electric line workers 
Electric meters 
Electroplating 



Nitrobenzol 

Nitrobenzol 

Nitrobenzol 

Arsenic 

Carbon disulphid, chlorin, chlorid of lime, 

cyanogen compounds, formaldehyd, 

mercury bichlorid, phenol, sulphur 

dioxid 
Carbon dioxid, sulphuretted hydrogen, 

sulphur dioxid 

Carbon dioxid, carbon monoxid 
Carbon monoxid 

Ammonia, sulphuretted hydrogen 

Mercury 

Acridin 

Ammonia, chlorid of lime (see also 

Anilin Dyestuffs) 
Nitrous gases 

Antimony, arsenic, anilin dyestuffs, ben- 
zol, chromium compounds, cyanogen 
compounds, hydrofluoric acid, phenol, 
oxalic acid, picric acid, sulphuretted 
hydrogen (dyeing with sulphid colors), 
ammonia, lead, methyl alcohol 

Nitrous gases, nitroglycerin 

See Batteries 

Lead, mercury 

Amyl acetate 

Carbon monoxid, solder 

Mercury, lead (see also Brass Industry) 

Cyanogen compounds 



HEALTH HAZARDS IN OCCUPATIONS 



299 



LIST OF INDUSTRIES IN WHICH POISONING MAY OCCUR (Continued) 

Branches of industry in which poisoning Designation of industrial poison 

may occur 

Antimony, arsenic, lead, carbon 
monoxid 

Lead 

Hydrochloric acid, lead, benzin, carbon 
monoxid 

Mercury 

Amyl alcohol 

Arsenic chlorid, nitrous gases 

Arseniuretted hydrogen, mercury, nitrous 
fumes, chlorin, phosphoric acid 

Dimethyl sulphate 

Anilin dyestuffs 

Antimony 

Sulphur dioxid 

Cyanogen compounds, mercury 

Anilin dyestuffs, mercury, nitrous gases, 
nitro-benzol, nitroglycerin, picric acid 

Carbon dioxid in silos (see also in- 
secticides) 

Chromium compounds 

Benzin, benzol, acrolein, carbon disulphid 

Benzol, benzin, carbon disulphid, sulphur 
chlorid 

Lead 

Benzin 

Carbon dioxid | 

Mercury, methyl alcohol, nitrous gases, 
sulphuric acid, nitric acid, arsenic 
dyestuffs, carbon monoxid 

Arseniuretted and phosphuretted hydro- 
gen 

Hydrochloric acid, hydrofluoric acid, sul- 
phuric acid, sulphuretted hydrogen, 
benzin 

Lead 

Antimony, arsenic, carbon monoxid, phos- 
phorus 

Antimony, carbon monoxid, nitrous gases 

Benzin, carbon monoxid, nitrous and 
other acid fumes 

Lead 

Sulphuretted hydrogen 

Arsenic, lead 

Carbon monoxid, sulphuric acid 

Hydrofluoric acid 

Hydrofluoric acid 

Amyl alcohol 

Sulphur dioxid 

Tar 

Sulphur dioxid 



Electrotyping 

Emery wheels, babbitting of 
Enamelling works 

Engraving, steel 
Essences, fruit, artificial 
Etching on brass 
Etching on metals 

Ether, methyl 
Ethyl violet 
Extraction of antimony 
Extraction of bone 
Extraction of gold and silver 
Explosives, manufacture of 

Farmers 

Fats, bleaching of 
Fats, extractions of 
Fats, solvents 

Faucets, brass, polishing 
Feathers, ornamental 
Fermentation rooms 
Felt hat industry 



Ferrosilicon 

Fertilizers, artificial manufacture of 



File cutting. 
Fireworks 

Firearms, manufacture of 
Firemen 

Flasks, manufacture of 
Flax retteries 
Flowers, artificial 
Foundries, iron 
Fluoric acid 
Fluorides, extraction of 
Fruit essences, manufacture of 
Fruit, dried, preservation 
Fuel briquet factories 
Fumigation casks, hops, fruit 



300 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



LIST OF INDUSTRIES IN WHICH POISONING MAY OCCUR (Continued) 



Branches of industry in which poisoning 
may occur 

Furnace gases 

Furniture factories, staining and 

polishing 
Furriers 

Galvano-plasty 
Galvano-techniques 
Galvanizing with zinc or tin 

Garage workers 
Garbage fat extraction 
Gardeners 
Garment workers 



Gas plants 

Gas and steam fitters 

Gas machines 

Gas purification 

Gasolin 

Gelatin manufacture 

Gilding and silvering 

Glass etching 

Glass factories 



Glass polishing 

Glaze mixing and dipping 

Glove and mitten manufacture 

Glove cleaning 
Glucose, manufacture of 
Glue, manufacture of 
Glycerin, trinitrate 
Gold, extraction of 
Gold plating 
Grease removal 
Gums, solvent for 
Gun cotton 
Gunsmiths 

Hair industry 

Hardening and tempering steel mag- 
nets, piano wire, springs, files, etc. 
Hat, felt, factory 



Designation of industrial poison 

Carbon monoxid, sulphur dioxid (see 
also Blast Furnaces) 

Anilin, arsenic, chrome stains, lead, methyl 
alcohol, petroleum, phenol, turpentine 

Lead for dyeing; mercury and nitrous 
gases for rabbit fur, arsenic, anthrax 

Cyanogen compounds 

Nitrous gases , 

Ammonia, arseniuretted hydrogen, hydro- 
chloric and sulphuric acids, zinc 

Benzin, carbon monoxid 

Benzin 

See Insecticides 

Anilin and arsenic dyes, carbon mon- 
oxid from ironing stoves, lead from 
weighted silk 

Ammonia, carbon monoxid, cyanogen 
compounds, tar 

Arseniuretted hydrogen, lead, nitrous 
gases 

Carbon monoxid 

Carbon monoxid, cyanogen compounds 

Benzin 

Sulphur dioxid 

Mercury 

Hydrofluoric acid 

Arsenic, hydrofluoric acid, hydrochloric 
acid, chromium compounds, carbon 
monoxid, lead, manganese, phenol 
(see also Painter) 

Lead 

Lead 

Anthrax, acids, anilin, chrome and lead 
compounds 

Benzin 

Arsenic from impure sulphuric acid 

Sulphur dioxid, chlorid of lime 

Nitroglycerin 

Cyanogen compounds, mercury 

Cyanogen compounds 

Benzin, benzene, carbon disulphid 

Carbon disulphid 

Nitroglycerin, nitrous gases 

Antimony, cyanogen compounds, carbon 
monoxid 

Anthrax 

Acrolein, cyanogen compounds and lead 

Mercury, methyl alcohol, nitrous gases, 
sulphuric acid, arsenic, dyestuffs, car- 
bon monoxid 






HEALTH HAZARDS IN OCCUPATIONS 



301 



LIST OF INDUSTRIES IX WHICH POISONING MAY OCCUR (Continued) 



Branches of industry in which poisoning 
may occur 

Hat, straw, factory 

Heating and power plants 
Hectograph composition 
Hides and skins 

Hittorf tubes 
Hydrochloric acid 
Hydrogen gas 
House painting 

Ice machines 

Igniting agents 

Illuminating gas, manufacture of 



Imitation bitter-almond oil 
Imitation silk factories 

Imperial yellow dye, manufacture of 
Impregnated wood 
Incandescent electric light 

India rubber industry 



Indian white fire 

Indulin dye, manufacture of 

Ink stains, removal of 

Insecticides, manufacture and use of 

Insulated wire, manufacture of 

lodin, manufacture of 

Iron chlorid, sulphate, manufacture 

Iron, deoxidation of 

Iron, galvanizing with zinc or tin 

Iron silicate, impure, decomposition 

of 

Iron sulphate, manufacture of 
Ironing 

Iron sanitary ware 
Iron and steel workers 

Jewelry, manufacture of 
Kaiser green 



Designation of industrial poison 

Sulphur dioxid, methyl alcohol, oxalic 

acid 

Carbon dioxid, carbon monoxid 
Chromium compounds, anilin 
Anthrax, arsenic, sulphur dioxid (see 

also Tanning) 
Mercury 
Nitrous gases 
Arseniuretted hydrogen 
Arsenic, benzin, lead, chrome colors, 

methyl alcohol, turpentine 
Ammonia, sulphur dioxid 
Phosphorus 

Ammonia, benzol, carbon monoxid, car- 
bon disulphid, sulphuretted hydrogen, 
tar 

Nitrobenzol 
Carbon disulphid, ammonium sulphid, 

nitrous fumes 
Anilin dyestuffs 
Phenol, tar 
Amyl acetate, carbon monoxid, mercury, 

methyl alcohol 

Anilin oil, antimony, benzin, benzol, 
carbon disulphid, cinnabar (mercury), 
hydrochloric acid, lead, sulphur dioxid 
and chlorid, tar, wood, alcohol. 
Arsenic 

Anilin dyestuffs 
Oxalic acid 

Arsenic, carbon disulphid, cyanogen and 
mercury compounds, sulphur dioxid 
Carbon disulphid, lead 
Benzol 
Nitrous gases 
Nitrous gases 
Ammonia, arseniuretted hydrogen, acid 

fumes and zinc 
Arseniuretted and phosphuretted 

hydrogen 

Arseniuretted hydrogen 
Carbon monoxid, chlorin, arsenic 
Carbon monoxid, lead, acid fumes 
Carbon monoxid, other furnace gases 

(see also Cutlery Industry) 
Ammionia, amyl acetate, cyanogen com- 
pounds, lead solder, hydrochloric, nitric 
and sulphuric acids, mercury, carbon 
monoxid (see also Brass) 
Arsenic 



302 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



LIST OF INDUSTRIES IN WHICH POISONING MAY OCCUR (Continued) 



Branches of industry in which poisoning 
may occur 

Krems white 
Lace workers 
Lacquer manufacture 

Lampblack, manufacture 

Lamp shades, coloring purposes 

Lanolin, extraction of 

Lard making 

Latrines 

Laundries 



Lead alloys 

Lead colors 

Lead, deoxidation of 

Lead metal 

Lead smelting 

Lead plating 

Leaf metal workers 

Leather industry 

Leather sole stitching 

Leather patent 

Leblanc soda, manufacture 

Ligroin 

Lime chlorid, manufacture of 

Lime kilns 

Linoleum, manufacture of 



Linotyping 

Litharge 

Lithographing 

Litho-transfer work 

Lyddite, manufacture of 

Lysol 

Manchester yellow, manufacture of 

Manganese mills 

Manumeters, manufacture of 

Marble polishers 

Masonic white leather aprons 

Mattress, manufacture of 

Matches, manufacture of 

Meldola dyes 

Melinite, manufacture of 

Mercury compounds, manufacture of 

Mercury mining 



Designation of industrial poison 

Lead 

Carbon monoxid 

Ammonia, amyl acetate, benzin, benzol, 
methyl alcohol, turpentine 

Phenol 

Arsenic 

Carbon disulphid 

Acrolein, ammonium sulphid, acid fumes 

Ammonia, sulphuretted hydrogen 

Benzin, benzol, chlorin, anilin colors for 
marking ink, carbon monoxid, arsenic 
from coke burning ironing stoves 

Antimony, copper, tin, etc. 

Lead 

Nitrous gases 

Arsenic 

Antimony, arsenic, lead, sulphur dioxid 

Arseniuretted hydrogen 

Ammonia, amyl acetate, acetone, benzin, 
benzol, methyl alcohol, turpentine 

Arsenic, chromium compounds, lead, 
mineral acids 

Mercury 

Amyl acetate, benzin, methyl alcohol 

Sulphuretted hydrogen 

Benzin 

Chlorin, arseniuretted hydrogen 

Carbon dioxid, carbon monoxid, sulphur 
dioxid 

Acrolein, amyl acetate, arsenical, mercu- 
rial and lead pigments, benzin and 
turpentine, manganese, zinc oxid 

Antimony, arsenic, lead, organic vapors 

Lead 

Arsenic, acid fumes, bronze powder, 
anilin, benzin, turpentine 

Lead 

Picric acid 

Phenol 

Anilin dyestuffs 

Manganese 

Mercury 

Lead 

Lead 

Anthrax, infectious diseases 

Chromium compounds, phosphorus 

Anilin dyestuffs 

Picric acid 

Mercury 

Mercury 



HEALTH HAZARDS IN OCCUPATIONS 



303 



LIST OF INDUSTRIES IN WHICH POISONING MAY OCCUR (Continued} 



Branches of industry in which poisoning 
may occur 

Mercury smelting 
Mercury vapor lamps 
Metal dipping 
Metal burnishing 
Metal etching 

Metal lacquer 

Metal polishing 

Metal refining 

Meters, electric, manufacture of 

Methyl amines 

Methyl esters 

Methyl ether 

Methyl violet 

Methylizing of every kind 

Mining 



Mineral water, carbonated 

Mints 

Mirbane oil 

Mirror plating 

Mirror silvering 

Moulds, drying 

Monotyping 

Moulding, picture frame manufacture 

Mordant in dyeing 

Mosaic works 

Muriatic acid 

Muslin green, color 

Naphtha, naphthol nitrates 

Naphthalein 

Navy 

Nickel buffers and polishers 

Nickel platers 

Neuwied green 

Nitric acid manufacture, salts and 

storage 

Nitrite of amyl 

Nitrificating in chemical works 
Nitrobenzol 
Nitrocellulose 
Nitroglycerin 
Nitrojute 
Nitromannite 



Designation of industrial poison 

Mercury 

Mercury 

Acid fumes 

Antimony, acid fumes 

Arseniu retted hydrogen, nitrous fumes, 
mercury 

Amyl acetate 

Oxalic acid 

Nitrous gases 

Mercury, lead (see also Brass Industry) 

Dimethyl sulphate 

Dimethyl sulphate 

Dimethyl sulphate 

Anilin dyestuffs 

Diazomethane 

Arsenic, carbon dioxid, carbon monoxid, 
lead, mercury, nitroglycerin, nitrous 
fumes, sulphuretted hydrogen, and other 
gaseous products of combustion of ex- 
plosive compounds 

Carbon dioxid 

Nitrous gases 

Nitrobenzol 

Mercury 

Acetaldehyd, ammonia; lead, if backed 
with red lead 

Carbon monoxid 

Antimony, arsenic, acrolein, lead 

Amyl acetate, bronze, methyl alcohol 
(see also Leaf Metal Workers) 

Antimony, chromium compounds, etc. 

Manganese 

Hydrochloric acid 

Arsenic 

Benzin, benzol, nitrous gases 

Anilin, anilin dyestuffs 

Carbon monoxid, gun firing, and furnace 
rooms 

Lead, nickel-carbonyl 

Benzene, lime, nickel salts, petroleum 

Arsenic 

Nitrous gases 

Amyl alcohol 

Nitrous gases 

Anilin, nitrous gases 

Nitroglycerin, nitrous gases 

Nitrous gases 

Nitrous gases 

Nitrous gases 



304 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



LIST OF INDUSTRIES IN WHICH POISONING MAY OCCUR 

(Continued) 



Branches of industry in which poisoning 
may occur 

Nitronaphthalene 

Nitrophenol 

Nitrosaccharose 

Nitroso dyes 

Nitrotuluol 

Oil, bleaching of 

Oil, solvent 

Oilcloth, manufacture of 

Oil, vitreol 
Open fire heating 
Organ builders 
Organic dyes, manufacture 
Organic preparations, manufacture 
Oxalic acid, manufacture of 
Oxygen, manufacture of 
Painters and commercial artists 



Paper deoxidation 
Paperhangers 
Paper mills 

Paraffin refining 
Paris green 
Parrot green 
Paving material 
Pencils, colored 
Percussion caps 
Perfumes, manufacture of 

Petroleum industry, distillation and 
refining 

Pharmaceutical preparations 

Phenol nitrates, manufacture of 
Phenylhydrazin, manufacture of and 
its use for production of organic 
compounds 

Phosgene, manufacture of and its 
use for production of organic com- 
pounds 

Phosphor bronze 

Phosphorus extraction from phos- 
phorites and coprolites 
Phosphorus, manufacture of 
Phosphorus, red, manufacture of 
Phosphorus, sesquisulphid, manu- 
facture of 



Designation of industrial poison 

Nitrobenzol 

Nitrobenzol 

Nitrous gases 

Anilin dyestuffs' 

Nitrobenzol 

Chromium compounds, nitrous gases 

Benzin, carbon disulphid 

Acrolein, amy lacetate, arsenical and lead 
pigments 

Sulphuric acid 

Carbon monoxid 

Lead, bronze, methyl alcohol 

Acridin, arsenic 

Formaldehyd, phenylhydrazin, phosgene 

Oxalic acid 

Chlorid of lime 

Arsenic, benzin, benzol, lead, mercury, 
methyl, alcohol, tar, turpentine, phenol, 
amyl acetate, carbon disulphid 

Nitrous gases 

Arsenic, lead 

Chlorin, lead, sulphur dioxid, toxic color 
pigments 

Carbon disulphid 

Arsenic 

Arsenic 

Asphalt, tar 

Anilin dyestuffs 

Mercury fulminate 

Dimethyl sulphate, methyl alcohol, nitro- 
benzol 

Petroleum, sulphuric acid, hydrochloric 
acid, chlorid of lime, sulphur dioxid, 
lead, tar 

Mercury, methyl alcohol, nitrobenzol, 
etc. 

Anilin dyestuffs, nitrous gases, phenol 

Phenylhydrazin 



Phosgene 



Phosphorus 

Phosphorus and hydrofluoric acid 

Benzol, phosphorus 
Phosphureted hydrogen 
Phosphureted hydrogen 



HEALTH HAZARDS IN OCCUPATIONS 



305 



LIST OF INDUSTRIES IN WHICH POISONING MAY OCCUR 

(Continued) 



Branches of industry in which poisoning 
may occur 

Phosphorus and sulphur compounds 
Photoengravers 
Photogen factories 

Photographing establishments, 
material 



Physical apparatus, manufacture of 
Pianos, manufacture of 
Picric acid manufacture 

Picture frames, manufacture of 
Plumbers 

Polish for furniture 
Polish for metals 
Porcelain enamelled ware 
Potteries 

Printing establishments 



Preservative fluid for animal tissues 

Preservative for wood 

Projectiles, manufacture of, filling 

shops 

Putty making 
Putrefaction processes, gases of 

Pyridin, manufacture of 

Pyrites 

Pyrotechniques 

Quicksilver 

Rabbit fur for felt hats 

Rag and shoddy industry 

Rattan industry 



Red lead 

Refrigeration plants 
Rendering plants 
Resin, distillation of 
" Resin, solvent for 
Rifle barrel, burnishing 
Rontgen tuber, manufacture of 
Roofers 

Roofing paper, manufacture of 
20 



Designation of industrial poison 

Sulphureted hydrogen 

Ammonium dichromate, nitrous fumes 

Phenol 

Anilin colors, bromin compounds, 
cyanogen compounds, mercury, metol, 
chromium compounds, lead in re- 
touching high lights. 

Mercury, arseniureted hydrogen 

Bronze, lead, methyl alcohol 

Anilin dyestuffs, nitrous gases, picric 
acid, phenol 

Bronze, amyl acetate, methyl alcohol 
(see Leaf-metal Workers) 

Arseniureted hydrogen, lead, carbon 
monoxid 

Petroleum, methyl alcohol 

Oxalic acid 

Lead 

Hydrofluoric acid, hydrochloric acid, 
lead, manganese, arsenic, chrome, 
carbon monoxid (see also Painters) 

Acrolein, antimony, benzin, lead, 
carbon monoxid, arsenic, methyl 
alcohol 

Formaldehyd, methyl alcohol 

Arsenical color pigments, phenol, tar 

Picric acid (see also Explosives) 

Lead 

Ammonia, carbon dioxid, sulphureted 

hydrogen 
Pyridin 

Arsenic, nitrous gases 
Antimony, arsenic, phosphorus 
Mercury 

Mercury, nitrous gases 
Acid fumes, infectious diseases 
Anilin stains, chlorin, chromium, 

hydrofluoric acid, methyl alcohol, 

sulphur dioxid 
Lead 
Ammonia 

Acrolein, benzin, carbon, disulphid 
Carbon monoxid 
Benzin 
Antimony 
Mercury 
Lead, solder, tar 
Tar 



306 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



LIST OF INDUSTRIES IN WHICH POISONING MAY OCCUR 

(Continued) 



Branches of industry in which 
poisoning may occur 

Roof tiling manufacture 

Rubber industry, including rubber 
toys 



Rubber tires, assembling of 

Rugs, manufacture, dyeing 

Rust stains, removal of 

Saffron yellow dye 

Salamanders, drying houses and 

plaster 

Sal ammoniac 
Salts of mercury 
Sanitary ware factories 
Schweinfurth green 
Sealing wax, manufacture of 
Sewer cleaning 

Sedimentation tanks 

Sewing machine manufacture 

Sheep dip manufacture 

Sheele's green 

Shellac, solvent for 

Shoddy manufacture 

Shot manufacture 

Shoe manufacture 

Silk bleaching 

Silk imitation factories 

Silk weighting 
Silver extraction 
Silver metal 
Silver plating 
Smelting furnaces 

Smelting lead 
Smelting mercury 
Smelting-sulphur bearing ores 
Soap factories 



Soda carbonate, manufacture of 
Soda chlorid, manufacture of 
Soda sediment, manufacture of 
Soda sulphate, manufacture of 
Soda sulphid, manufacture of 
Soda works 



Designation of industrial poison 

Lead, carbon monoxid and other 
furnace gases 

Anilin, antimony, arsenic, benzin, 
benzol, carbon disulphid, and tetra- 
chlorid, lead, phenol, sulphur dioxid, 
and chlorid, tar, mercuric sulphid, 
methyl alcohol, turpentine 

Carbon disulphid 

Arsenic and other toxic dyestuffs 

Oxalic acid 

Anilin dyestuffs 

Carbon monoxid 

Ammonia 

Mercury 

Lead 

Arsenic 

Turpentine 

Ammonia, carbon dioxid, sulphureted 

hydrogen 

Carbon dioxid, sulphureted hydrogen 
Amyl acetate 
Arsenic 
Arsenic 

Methyl alcohol 

Hydrochloric acid, sulphuric acid 
Antimony, arsenic, lead 
Benzin, methyl alcohol 
Sulphur dioxid 
Carbon disulphid, ammonium sulphid, 

nitrous fumes 
Lead 

Mercury, cyanogen compounds 
Arsenic, lead, antimony 
Cyanogen compounds, mercury 
Carbon monoxide and other furnace 

gases 
Lead 
Mercury 
Sulphur dioxid 
Acrolein, nitrobenzol, sulphuric acid, 

pyridin, ammonia cyanid, sulphur, 

tar 

Ammonia 

Hydrochloric acid, chlorin 
Nitrous gases 

Arseniureted hydrogen, hydrochloric acid 
Sulphureted hydrogen 
Sulphureted hydrogen, hydrochloric and 

sulphuric acids 



HEALTH HAZARDS IN OCCUPATIONS 



307. 



LIST OF INDUSTRIES IN WHICH POISONING MAY OCCUR 



Branches of industry in which 
poisoning may occur 



(Continued) 



Designation of industrial poison 



Soldering 



Staining wood 

Stannic acetate 

Starch, manufacture of 

Stamping designs on embroidery 

Stamping mills 

Stearic acid factories 

Stearin refining 

Steel engraving 

Steel burnishing 

Stereotyping 

Storage batteries 

Stone and marble polishers 

Straw hats, bleaching 

Straw deoxidation 

Sugar, beet sugar 

Sugar plants, saturation vessels 

Sugar refineries 

Sulphur, refining of 

Sulphur metals, manufacture and 
use of 

Sulphur extraction in gas purification 

Sulphur solvent for 

Sulphur, water distillation of 

Sulphur and phosphorus compounds, 
manufacture of 

Sulphid colors, manufacture and use 
of 

Sulphuric acid, manufacture of 

Sulphurous acid and salts, manu- 
facture of 

Surgical dressings 

Swiss green 

Tailors 

Tallow rendering plants 

Tallow refining 

Tanneries, tanning and leather 
dressing 



Tapestry printing 
Tar color industry 

Tar works 
Taxidermy 
Telephone wire, manufacture of 



Arseniureted hydrogen, carbon mon- 
oxid, hydrochloric acid, lead, nitrous 
fumes 

Anilin, chromium, methyl alcohol, 
phenol 

Hydrochloric acid 

See Putrefaction Gases 

Lead and rosin 

Mercury, nitrous gases 

Acrolein 

Carbon disulphid 

Mercury 

Antimony, sulphuric acid 

Antimony, lead, carbon monoxid 

See batteries 

Lead 

Sulphur dioxid 

Nitrous gases 

Ammonia 

Carbon dioxid 

Phosphorus, sulphureted hydrogen 

Benzol 

Sulphureted hydrogen 

Carbon disulphid 
Carbon disulphid, sulphur chlorid 
Sulphureted hydrogen 
Sulphureted hydrogen 

Sulphureted hydrogen 

Nitrous gases, sulphur dioxid 
Nitrous gases, sulphur dioxid 

Mercury, phenol 

Arsenic 

See Garment Workers 

Acrolein, sulphuric acid 

Carbon disulphid, chlorin, acid fumes 

Ammonia, anthrax, arsenic, carbon 
dioxid (in tan pits), chromium com- 
pounds, lead (white leather), sulphur 
dioxid, sulphureted hydrogen, acids, 
benzin, amyl acetate 

Turpentine, toxic color pigments 

Anilin, chromium compounds, phos- 
phorus, etc. 

Tar 

Arsenic, carbon disulphid 

Lead 



308 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



LIST OF INDUSTRIES IN WHICH POISONING MAY OCCUR 

(Continued) 



Branches of industry in which 
poisoning may occur 

Tempering and hardening, steel 
magnets, piano wire, springs, files, 
etc. 

Textile fabrics, deoxidation of 

Textile industry 

Textile printing 

Thermometers 

Thorium, preparation of 

Tin foil 

Tin ware and tin shops and tinning 



Tissue hardening and preserving 

Toluol, manufacture of 

Toys, coloring of 

Toy balloons, filling 

Transfer chromos 

Turkey red, mordant for 

Typefounders 

Typesetters 

Ultramarine works 

Upholstery 

Valeric acid, manufacture of 

Varnish, manufacture and use of 

Vinegar, manufacture of 
Vienna green and red 
Viscosin, manufacture of 
Vulcanizing and red dyeing of rubber 

Wall-paper, manufacture of 
Wall-paper, hangers and scrapers 
Waste waters of industrial plants 

making use of organic matter 
Watch factories 



Water gas, carburizing 
Water gilding 
Waterproof material 
Wax bleaching 
Wax refining 
Weather vane gilding 
Well gas 
Whip, factories 
White lead 
White metal 
Window shades, green 
Wine cellars 



Designation of industrial poison 

Acrolein, cyanogen compounds, lead 



Nitrous gases 

Arsenical colors, lead, sulphuric acid 

Antimony, arsenic, chromium, lead 

compounds 
Mercury 
Nitrous gases 
Lead 
Ammonia, arseniureted hydrogen, 

chlorin, carbon monoxid, hydrochloric 

acid, lead sulphuric acid 
Formaldehyd 
Benzol 
Arsenic 

Arseniureted hydrogen 
Lead 

Chromium compounds 
Acrolein, antimony, arsenic, lead 
Benzin, lead 

Sulphur dioxid, sulphureted hydrogen 
Anthrax and infectious diseases 
Amyl alcohol 
Acrolein, ammonia, benzin, lead, 

methyl alcohol, turpentine 
Acetaldehyd 
Arsenic 
Nitrous gases 
Antimony, arsenic, carbon disulphid 

(see also Rubber) 

Arsenic, lead (see also Paper Mills) 
Arseniureted hydrogen 
Sulphureted hydrogen 

Benzin, cyanogen, compounds, lead for 
dials, nitrous gases (see also Brass and 
Tempering) 

Benzol 

Mercury 

See Rubber 

Chromium compounds, sulphur dioxid 

Carbon disulphid 

Mercury 

Carbon dioxid 

See Rattan Industry 

Lead 

Antimony 

Arsenic 

Carbon dioxid 



HEALTH HAZARDS IN OCCUPATIONS 



309 



LIST OF INDUSTRIES IN WHICH POISONING MAY OCCUR 

(Continued) 

Designation of industrial poison 



Branches of industry in which 
poisoning may occur 

Wine preserving 

Wire galvanizing with zinc 

Wire tempering 

Wool bleaching 

Woolen refuse, deoxidation of 

Wood alcohol 

Wood deoxidation of 

Wood impregnating and preserving 

Wood staining and polishing 



Workrooms, crowded 

Yeast, compressed, factories 

Zyloidin, manufacture of 

Zylol 

Zapone lacquer 

Zinc chlorid, manufacture of 

Zinc deoxidation of 

Zinc ore smelting 

Zinc plating 

Zinc sulphate, manufacture of 
Zoological preparations 



Sulphur dioxid 

Ammonia arseniureted hydrogen, hydro- 
chloric acid, sulphuric acid, zinc 

Lead, acrolein, cyanogen compounds 

Sulphur dioxid 

Nitrous gases 

Methyl alcohol 

Nitrous gases 

Arsenica 1 paints, phenol, tar 

Anilin colors, chromium compounds, 
lead, arsenic colors, methyl alcohol, 
alcohol denatured with pyridin, 
phenol, petroleum 

Carbon dioxid 

Carbon dioxid 

Nitrous gases 

Benzol 

Amyl acetate 

Arseniureted hydrogen 

Nitrous gases 

Antimony, arsenic, carbon monoxid, 
lead, manganese, sulphur dioxid 

Ammonia, arseniureted hydrogen, hydro- 
chloric, sulphuric acids and zinc 

Arseniureted hydrogen 

Formaldeliyd 



CHAPTER XX 
THE NATIONAL SAFETY COUNCIL 

"Safety First" is the slogan adopted and made famous by a 
group of laymen who in 1912 met and formed the great National 
Safety Council. The work of this association has done more toward 
preventing accidents among industrial workers than any other single 
organization. 

In 1914 a Health Section composed largely of industrial surgeons 
was incorporated as a part of this association. It was recognized 
that Industrial medicine and surgery must be a definite part of any 
successful scheme of accident prevention. The Safety engineer was 
responsible for the mechanical appliances attached to machines to 
protect the operator and for other physical conditions in the plant 
improving safety methods. The Safety Committee could spread the 
gospel of " Safety First " throughout the working force. But the doctor 
was the only one who could inspect the human machine and pick out 
defects in it which made accidents to the man or to his fellow men 
more liable to occur. 

Therefore, with the induction of the industrial surgeon into the 
ranks of the National Safety Council a complete machine was formed 
for the prevention of accidents among industrial employees the 
Safety Engineer for the correction of physical conditions in the plant, 
the Safety Committees to spread the educational propaganda among the 
workers, and the Industrial Surgeon, the Human Engineer, to correct 
the physical conditions in the employees. 

Every industrial surgeon should be familiar with the founding and 
history of this National Safety Council. It has been the means of 
conserving thousands upon thousands of lives. It has stimulated the 
medical profession to greater efforts in prevention. "Safety First" 
is a twin brother of Preventive Surgery. 

Mr. William H. Cameron, the Executive Secretary of the National 
Safety Council, a man who has devoted his life to this great humani- 
tarian movement, has written the following history of this organiza- 
tion for the author to publish here. 

"And the end is that the workman shall 
live to enjoy the fruits of his labor; 
that his mother shall have the comfort 
of his arm in her age; that his wife 
310 



THE NATIONAL SAFETY COUNCIL 311 

shall not be untimely a widow; that his 
children shall have a father; and that 
cripples and helpless wrecks who were 
once strong men, shall no longer be a 
by-product of industry." 

JUHNKE. 

''Accident prevention and health conservation are now firmly 
established among the institutions of free America. For a score 
of years individual efforts were made by progressive employers to 
meet the demands both of production and human conservation. 
Sporadic efforts sought to gather together the loose ends of the new 
industrialism, and to fashion an organization which would fit the needs 
of the twentieth century, but for lack of concentration and co-opera- 
tion these efforts failed of lasting accomplishment. 

"With the birth of the American factory system about the time of 
the civil war, came the doctrine of utility, and, for a time, grace and 
symmetry in product were sacrificed to unadorned simplicity. The 
cry was for speed, for production, for machine accomplishment and for 
'tonnage,' and constantly increasing 'tonnage.' 

"The old tradition of craftsmanship was swept aside and the work- 
man became a mere part of the shop equipment. Short cuts to produc- 
tidh were the order of the day and the so-called inherent 'risks of the 
trade' became the doctrine not only of the factory but of the legislative 
and judicial systems. 

"But industry, never satisfied with established order, and seeking 
newer fields, turned from monotonous simplicity and taught the 
public a new lesson comfort in living. Following closely in this 
development came lavishness and magnificence. 

''Competition reached a keenness hitherto unknown. Vast capital 
was required and business management was alert to take advantage of 
the growing market. The world was scoured for raw materials for 
our workshops, with the brain centered on production, the drafting 
rooms became the lungs of industry, the sales force the nerves, the 
workshops the muscles and tendons. Every member of the industrial 
body except the heart was working at high tension. 

"As was to be expected reaction set in. Progressive and thoughtful 
men began to weigh carefully the costs of operation and maintenance, 
and the utilization of by-products laid the foundations of fortunes that 
were not dreamed of under the law of 'tonnage' alone. Economics 
and efficiencies in operation, studies of costs and closer co-operation in 

I manufacture logically followed. 
"The Safety idea was born during the period of reconstruction of 
industry. It is a significant fact that the greatest of American 



312 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

industries was the first to amalgamate all the forces of production and 
utility and business experience; was the first, as an organization, to 
publicly announce a crusade against industrial accidents and occupa- 
tional disease. The Safety movement owes more to the United States 
Steel Corporation than to any other single business organization. 

"The Association of Iron and Steel Electrical Engineers met in 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, the week of September 30, 1912, and under the 
direction and enthusiasm of Mr. Lew R. Palmer, as Chairman of the 
Accident Prevention Committee of this Association, was launched the 
first National Safety Congress ever held in the United States. The 
resolutions announcing the birth of the new order of industrial justice 
are significant : 

" 'Whereas, The Association of Iron and Steel Electrical Engineers, 
regarding as worthy of particular attention the hazards to life in- 
volved in electrical operations in steel mills, and appreciating the 
importance of the general Safety movement, not only in electrical 
engineering, but also in the steel industry as a whole, and in all the 
other varied and important industries of our country, and having met 
with such prompt co-operation in their proposals to establish a national 
organization devoted to securing increased Safety to human life, 
has reached the conclusion that such an organization can best 
be brought about by action at this joint meeting of the Association 
of Iron and Steel Electrical Engineers and the Co-operative Safety 
Congress; and it is, therefore, hereby 

" 'Resolved, That the President of the Association of Iron and 
Steel Electrical Engineers be requested to take the first steps toward the 
formation of a national organization for the promotion of Safety to 
human life by appointing a Committee on Permanent Organization, 
which shall contain representatives of the Federal and State agencies 
already established to supervise conditions of Safety in our industries, 
and shall also contain representatives from the mining, transportation 
and manufacturing industries of the United States; and be it further 

" 'Resolved, That the committee so appointed shall be and hereby 
is authorized by this Congress to organize and to create a permanent 
body devoted to the promotion of Safety to human life in the industries 
of the United States; this Committee to have authority to call future 
Congresses of Safety, increase its membership, if it so desires, and to 
do such other acts as will promote the object for which it is 
established.' 

"The Congress met at the Hotel Pfister and among the delegates 
we find the following: 

Dr. L. W. Chancy, Department of Commerce and labor. 
Mr. C. L. Close, U. S. Steel Corporation. 



THE NATIONAL SAFETY COUNCIL 313 

Dr. Joseph A. Holmes, Director Bureau of Mines. 

Mr. F. W. Houk, Commissioner of Labor, Minnesota. 

Mr. John Kirby, Jr., National Association of Manufacturers. 

Mr. James T. McCleary, Iron and Steel Institute. 

Mr. Chas. C. McChord, Interstate Commerce Commission. 

Dr. Chas. P. Neill, U. S. Commissioner of Labor. 

Mr. L. R. Palmer, Association of Iron &nd Steel Electric Engrs. 

Mr. C. W. Price, Wisconsin Industrial Commission. 

Mr. R. C. Richards, Chicago and Northwestern Railway. 

Dr. M. J. Shields, National Red Cross. 

Mr. F. C. Schwedtman, National Association of Manufacturers. 

Mr. David Van Schaack, Aetna Life Insurance Company. 

Mr. H. M. Wilson, Bureau of Mines. 

Mr. H. J. Young, Illinois Steel Company. 

"Chairman Dr. Lucian W. Chancy, representing the United States 
Department of Commerce and Labor, opened the meeting as follows: 

" 'I wish to impress upon those present that the effort in which we 
have entered in connection with this Congress is distinctly a phase of 
applied Christianity, and, therefore, it is exceedingly appropriate that 
we invite Dr. Steiner, Professor of Applied Christianity in Grinnel 
College, to offer a word of prayer as we begin.' 

OPENING PRAYER 

Dr. Edward A. Steiner, 

Professor of Applied Christianity, Grinnel College 

" ' Oh Lord, our God, who dost promise to those who meet in Thy 
name Thine own presence, we have come together not to consider 
our own weel or wealth; we have come here in Thine own name to 
consider the well-being of our fellowmen, and we would invoke 
Thy blessing, ask Thee to meet with us whom Thou hast chosen to be 
co-workers with Thee. We pray that Thou may be with us and help 
us not only to light the way, but help us to keep the way, and grant 
that everything that shall be done at this Congress shall work for the 
well-being of our fellowmen, for the glory and development of our own 
country, and for the speedy coming of the kingdom of God. May our 
consideration of the Safety of labor and the toiler be rewarded by a 
higher respect for humanity as a whole, a great regard for law, a purer 
and deeper and higher patriotism ; wilst Thou bless this city in which 
we meet, this Commonwealth, our beloved country, the President of 
the United States, his Cabinet and all his officers; this great country 
and all its states from one end to the other, and may it continue to be 



314 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

the great beacon to the world, lighting toward liberty and toward 
progress, and may the work which we do here this morning be a 
contribution toward that end. Bless the President of this association, 
all the officers, all those who take part, and may it be as solemn as 
it is sacred, and may it be as useful as we try to make it holy. We 
ask it all in the Master's name, who gave himself for the good of men. 
Amen.' 

"Dr. Chaney's words were prophetic, Dr. Steiner's prayer has 
borne fruit. To-day Industrial Safety is firmly established as a part 
of our fabric of government. To-day the gospel of industrial righteous- 
ness is preached in thousands of workshops, and on the majority of the 
transportation systems. 

" The modest meeting in 1912 developed into the National Council 
for Industrial Safety. Under the wise leadership of Mr. R. W. Camp- 
bell, President, and Mr. William H. Cameron, General Manager, 
and the .effective co-operation of an earnest and enthusiastic staff, the 
Safety crusade took form and substance. The Second Safety Congress 
at the Hotel McAlpin, New York City, presented a program of activi- 
ties which commanded the interest of all humane employers and 
effectively answered the critics of the movement. Two score of the 
biggest and broadest-minded men in the country accepted invitations 
to address the Congress, and their allegiance to the Safety movement 
firmly established the new crusade. About this time the slogan 
'Safety First' became popular, welding all forces of the newest 
gospel into a concrete and effective organization. 

"The National Council for Industrial Safety grew and prospered. 
The weekly Safety bulletin service was established and has been 
continued without a break for 175 weeks, and has grown to a dis- 
tribution of 75,000 copies per week. Statistical researches were made 
and tabulated, and practical value given to shop activities never before 
dreamed of. The innovation of using available data in the simple 
and effective form of one page illustrated bulletins, rather than in the 
compilation of massive treatises, proved the value of the Council's 
services in teaching the lesson in readable form and fresh from the 
press. The Council doubled its membership and greatly increased 
its usefulness in this, the second year, of its life. 

"Then came the Third Safety Congress, held at the Hotel LaSalle, 
Chicago. This series of meetings was epoch making, both in at- 
tendance and interest. The roster of speakers contained the names 
of Royal Meeker, Commissioner of Labor, U. S. Department of Labor; 
John Price Jackson, Commissioner of Labor and Industry, Penn- 
sylvania; H. M. Wilson, Engineer in Charge, Bureau of Mines; 
Dean C. B. Connelly, Ida M. Tarbell, Alice Hamilton, Dr. Theodore 
Sachs, Dr. A. M. Harvey, Dr. Geo. W. Price, Martin J. Insull, William 



THE NATIONAL SAFETY COUNCIL 315 

P. Eno, E. A. Halsey, Fred C. Schwedtman and a host of others, 
all preaching and advocating industrial Safety and health conservation. 

"It was at this Congress that the industrial medical practitioner 
first made his voice heard in unmistakable terms. Plant managers 
learned that the installation of adequate mechanical safeguards did 
not comprise their only duty. Sanitation, ventilation, control and 
eradication of industrial disease, elimination of communicable in- 
fections, all these and other questions were placed on the program 
and given a thorough discussion. Tuberculosis, blood poison, hernia, 
eye strain, and excessive fatigue were handled in a way to awaken 
the interest and co-operation of the large audiences. 

"A year of intense activity followed. With the broadened scope 
of activities the association changed its name to 'National Safety 
Council.' The program of the Third Safety Congress furnished 
the text for the activities of the officers and members and the work 
was carried on with renewed enthusiasm. The membership doubled, 
and with every mail came scores of experience statements from plant 
officials to be compiled, digested, and reissued for the information of 
the whole membership. 

"Mr. Arthur T. Morey honored the Council by accepting the office 
of chief executive for the third year, Mr. Campbell retiring as Presi- 
dent at the end of the second year. It is significant of the interest 
taken in the work that the master minds of industry have cheerfully 
and unostentatiously given so liberally of their time and experience 
for the causes of safety and humanity. 

"The Fourth Safety Congress was held at the Belle vue-Stratford 
Hotel, Philadelphia. To meet the demands of the Congress it was 
necessary to divide the Council into sections, each meeting larger 
hi attendance and more ambitious in program than the first Congress 
at Milwaukee. The Governor of the Commonwealth, the Mayor 
of this City, the press, and the public united in a grand rally to further 
the propaganda of the Congress. 

"After the great 'round table' gatherings, devoted to general dis- 
cussion, ten sectional meetings considered the particular Safety prob- 
lems of their industries. The Cement Section took a leading part 
in the Congress, as did the Mining, Steam Railroad, Laundry, Paper 
and Pulp Manufacturers, Public Utilities, Textile, Industrial Hygiene, 
Safeguarding of Machinery, Foundry and Woodworking Sections. 

"It was at this gathering that the greatest truth in the Safety Cru- 
sade was forcibly driven home to the plant managers, the Safety 
Engineers, and the public, namely, that all the safeguards, all the rule 
books, all the discipline, and all other efforts must fail without the 
earnest and willing co-operation of the workmen themselves. Mil- 
lions of dollars had been expended by the members of the National 



316 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

Safety Council in perfecting the mechanical safeguards in their plants; 
other millions went for sanitation, for ventilation, for preventive 
measures, yet the men vitally affected too often showed only a per- 
functory interest in their own welfare. 

"A score of addresses and lectures were delivered at the Philadel- 
phia Safety Congress pointing the way to success in administering 
Safety work the way to the hearts of the millions of men and women 
toiling in the industries. The visiting nurse, the industrial physi- 
cian, the dentist, and the teacher came forward and joined the social 
worker, priest and parson in the teaching of applied and practical 
Christianity. Industrial justice was heard in no uncertain terms. 

"Another important lesson was taught out of the wealth of digested 
experience and statistical data furnished through the medium of 
the parent body the National Safety Council. Where one accident 
was prevented through safeguarding three were prevented by the 
exercise of personal care and caution by the workmen themselves. 
Where one case of industrial disease was prevented in the shop or 
factory, two were susceptible of prevention and three of cure in the 
home life of the employees. 

"From the date of the Fourth Safety Congress the importance of 
education, rather than compulsion in Safety matters, was given promi- 
nent place in the activities of the movement. 

"The elasticity of the Council was never better exemplified than 
during the succeeding year. Employers who had held aloof, waiting 
for the movement to prove itself, came forward in whole-hearted 
recognition of the justness of the plea for a larger humanity. From 
an organization struggling to meet the patent demands made upon 
it in the simple necessities of everyday life, the Council almost in a 
day, was placed beyond the need of financial worries. 

"From the Fourth to the Fifth Safety Congresses the membership 
again doubled in number; the work of the Sections was improved, 
an increased staff at headquarters facilitated the activities of the 
officers, and the newer phases of Safety work were pushed with un- 
relenting vigor. The record of the Fourth Congress is found in the 
771 pages of the proceedings of the gathering' a living monument 
of service and a text-book on safety of incalculable value. 

"The Fifth Safety Congress was held at the Hotel Statler, Detroit. 
Mr. Lew R. Palmer succeeded Mr. Morey as President, Mr. Morey 
continuing (as in the case of Former President Campbell) as a director 
and Executive Committeeman of the Council. The proceedings of 
the Fifth Safety Congress fill a volume of 1541 pages, every page 
a lesson and an inspiration. 

"Perhaps the most important constitution for the cause of Safety 
by the National Safety Council, has been the organization and es- 



THE NATIONAL SAFETY COUNCIL 



317 



tablishment of an Information Bureau and Library of every scrap 
of printed material available in the United States and foreign coun- 
tries, relating to the work of the Council. This Information Bureau 
is at present in charge of two trained librarians who are classifying 
and filing this printed information, and sending it to the hundred of 
members inquiring for data every month. Every application for 
membership passes through this Bureau of Information, and the im- 
portant bulletins and publications of the Council are sent to the 
new member to properly start him in his new activities. For the 
year ending April 1, 1917, four million bulletins were distributed to fif- 
teen thousand representatives residing in every State of the Union, 
and in seven foreign countries. 

"At the present time the monthly pamphlet called "Safe Practices" 
is in circulation, an encyclopedic work destined to take its place in 
literature with the foremost handbooks of the world. A modest num- 
ber on 'Ladders' was followed by others on 'Stairs and Stairways;' 
'Boiler Rooms;' 'Crane Construction and Safe Practices;' 'Knots, 
Slings, Bends and Hitches;' 'Belt Shifters,' etc. In time, it is in- 
tended to present every phase of industrial education and by rule, 
illustration and practice, complete a digest of Safe Practices for the 
prevention of accidents in the industries of America. 

"In attempting a brief resume" of the work of the Council it is well 
to digress from its direct accomplishments to point, if only momen- 
tarily, to the reflection of its activities on other forces in society. 
Take from the shelf of any library devoted to law, medicine, pub- 
lic or private welfare any volume published in the last four or five 
years and run through the pages. You will find therein, whether 
in federal enactment, state law, or city ordinance, chapters, phases, 
and texts first enunciated at the Congresses of the National Safety 
Council. 

"In this way is the history of the movement, and the monument 
to its founders and proponents, best perpetuated in the lives and 
hearts of living men and women; in the healthy bodies and active minds 
of self-supporting and self-respecting workers, due, in many thou- 
sands of cases, to the whole-hearted co-operation of their employers 
in making this a better and a safer country." 



CHAPTER XXI 
ACCIDENT PREVENTION 

Entire volumes have been written in recent years on the subject 
of accident prevention. In the last decade few topics connected with 
industry have received more attention or made more rapid progress. 
And yet the prevention of injuries to our workmen has not reached 
a high plane of efficiency, and in many concerns it is still more or less 
neglected. 

In some nations the conservation of their people has caused high 
penalties to be placed against those employers who fail to prevent 
injuries from occurring to their employees. As a result, accident pre- 
vention has become standardized throughout their entire industrial 
field, resulting in great saving in life and limbs. In the United States 
the introduction of employees' compensation laws caused many con- 
cerns to adopt some system of accident prevention. But thus far 
these laws have not been drastic enough to place a penalty upon the 
concerns failing to take proper precautions. 

In a few states, as for example Ohio, the accident* insurance of 
all concerns is carried by the state government. The amount of 
premium paid by the employer is raised or lowered each year accord- 
ing to the number of compensable injuries which his employees sus- 
tained during the preceding year. This arrangement gave an im- 
petus to the prevention of accidents among all industries in that state. 
While some concerns will voluntarily institute this form of prevention, 
yet it will not become universal until our nation makes it too expen- 
sive for any employer to allow preventable injuries to occur. It 
is imperative that every industrial surgeon should drive home this 
truth at every opportunity Prevention is much Cheaper than pay- 
ing Compensation. 

Many laymen have entered this field of preventive surgery. Safety 
engineering has become a great specialty. Such an engineer is 
very essential as the prevention of many accidents depends upon 
building construction, mechanical appliances adapted to machinery, 
the rebuilding of some machines, and many other forms of mechanical 
work. But no surgeon should neglect to familiarize himself with 
every form of accident prevention. 

It is impossible to cover the entire scope of this work in a volume 
devoted to so many other subjects related to Human Maintenance, 

318 



ACCIDENT PREVENTION 319 

but the author would recommend the Transactions of the National 
Safety Council, and the book, "Accident Prevention and Relief" 
by Schwedtman and Emery, published by the National Association 
of Manufacturers, to every surgeon engaged in industrial practice. 
In this chapter, however, we will endeavor to show the relationship 
of the surgeon in industry to all accident prevention work, and point 
out the responsibilities which are his by many examples derived from ' 
actual experience. 

Industrial accidents may be etiologically divided into three groups : 

1. Those due to the physical conditions found in the working 
place. 

2. Those due to certain physical or mental conditions found in 
the working force. 

3. Those due to disaster, as fires, lightning, explosion, cyclone, 
etc. 

The prevention of accidents must be done by: 

1. Protection against potential accidents by safety appliances 
placed about the working place, or worn by the employees. 

2. A study of the cause of an accident and protection against a 
recurrence. 

3. Supervision of the physical and mental condition of all em- 
ployees and correction of any causes for accident found in them; the 
removal of a susceptible employee to work where no hazard exists; 
the safeguarding of fellow employees from accidents liable to result 
from defective workmen. 

4. Protection against disaster as far as possible and providing 
proper means of escape for the employees in case of disaster. 

To accomplish the above Accident Prevention there must be: 

1. Constant study and inspection of the physical conditions 
of the working place, by the safety engineer, the medical staff, the 
management and the employees, to discover causes for the potential 
accidents. 

2. Careful study of the cause of each accident by the surgeon and 
safety engineer to ascertain whether mechanical conditions or condi- 
tions in the employee, or both, were responsible and how a like acci- 
dent can be prevented in the future. 

3. Educational campaigns on accident prevention by bulletins, 
lectures, motion pictures, by safety committees among employees, and 
by developing an atmosphere of Prevention throughout the entire 
working force (Fig. 39). 

Before the "Safety First" movement started the greatest number 
of accidents were due to the physical conditions of the working place. 
This is still true in many concerns. But as protective appliances were 
installed, accidents from these causes decreased, and conditions found 



320 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



in the employees themselves became more evident as a causative 
factor. 

The commonest cause of injury was found in minor accidents, 
such as those due to splinters, pin pricks, nail wounds, scratches 
from loose wire, from tools, contusions as from hammer blows, 
tripping on loose boards, slipping and falling, etc. Even these minor 
accidents have been greatly reduced. But the greatest benefits have 



ACCIDENT PREVENTION POSTER 

Number 1 1. 



8 Men Killed-Each Death A Preventable Accident 

1 Workman engaged in hauling load of cut wood. Load toppled over on him and he 
died of hi. injuria. 

PILE ALL MATERIAL SAFELY. 

5 Five workmen recently killed in different parti of State coming in contact with lire 
wire*. 

PROPERLY PROTECT ALL ELECTRIC WIRES. 

DO NOT TOUCH WIRES UNLESS YOU KNOW DANGEROUS 
CURRENT IS CUT OFF. 

1 Workman burned with hoi metal Injury not reported and not properly dreued. 
Infection ict in and he died. 

REPORT ALL INJURIES AT ONCE AND RECEIVE PROPER 
MEDICAL ATTENTION. 

1 Crane lifting plank*. One plank slipped from load and hit workman on head. 

KEEP FROM UNDER SUSPENDED LOADS. 



8 Persons Unnecessarily Killed. 

SORROW, SUFFERING, POSSIBLY WANT-ALL AVOIDED BY CAREFULNESS. 



COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA 
DEPARTMENT OF LABOR AND INDUSTRY 

JOHN PRICE JACKSON. C 



FIG. 39. Actual facts make the best propaganda for prevention. 

come from early treatment of these conditions thereby preventing any 
serious complications from arising. 

The surgeon in charge of the ''Human Maintenance ""Department 
of an industry should be most keenly alive to the responsibility of 
accident prevention. It is one of the most important branches 
of preventive Surgery. 

MAJOR ACCIDENTS 

We will first take up the physical conditions in the working place, 
which may cause these accidents. 



ACCIDENT PREVENTION 



321 



Every building connected with the plant should be thoroughly 
inspected to see that potential causes of accidents do not exist, or 
if found, that they are corrected. 

The building should be strongly constructed so that it can stand 
the strain placed upon it. This is an engineer's or architect's job, 
you will say. This is true but wherever the least doubt exists the 
industrial surgeon should see that this expert advice is brought in to 
safeguard the employees. Every year severe injuries and deaths occur 
from the collapse of some building or scaffolding used in connection 
with industry. The surgeon thinking in terms of prevention should 
be the first to ppint out these dangers. He should know at all times 
if the buildings used by his concern, or any temporary structures 
which are erected, are safe. 

Darkness is a Breeder of Accidents. Every place in the building 
where employees must work or pass through should be adequately, 
lighted. This is particularly true of all stairways or gangways. 

All platforms or other elevations should be protected. 

Unprotected Elevator Shafts are the Cause of Frequent Accidents. 
Every known safety device should be placed on elevators. Too 
often we wait until an elevator accident occurs before taking proper 
precautions. Every gate to an elevator should be raised or lowered 
automatically when the elevator stops or before it can start. 

Three garages were recently visited in a certain city, in which the 
elevator gates were not used at all. The elevator was run by any 
customer who came in and desired to go to the second or third floor 
for his car. This carelessness is bound to result in accident sooner 
or later. 

Laws preventing such carelessness should be enacted and strictly 
enforced. The prevention surgeon should consider it his duty to 
report such conditions to the proper authorities. In other words, 
the prevention instinct in each should react not only for the good of 
the employees under us but for the good of mankind. 

Temporary structures such as scaffoldings are notorious as a cause 
for accident due to collapse. One industrial surgeon persuaded the 
manager to rule that no temporary structure could be used until it 
had been thoroughly inspected by the safety engineer and pronounced 
perfectly safe by him. 

The Failure to Keep the Building hi Repair at All Tunes Is Often 
Cause for Accidents. An employee reported to the doctor's office, in 
a certain concern, with all the flexor tendons of the wrist severed due 
to striking it against a broken window pane. Inquiry revealed the 
fact that this window pane had been broken for over six months. 

In a busy concern, a heavy truck broke one of the boards in the 
floor. A week later an employee tripped on this broken board and fell 
21 



322 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



striking his head against the sharp corner of a box. He suffered a 
Pott's Fracture and a skull fracture. The repair of this defective 
floor would have prevented both. The sharp edge of the box left 
exposed so near the aisle was a potential cause for accident. 

Every plant physician can recall many preventable cases which have 
resulted from broken conditions left unrepaired. 

Loose Articles Left on Floors or on Shelves or Other Elevations 
are Dangerous. Four employees were assigned the job of moving a 
heavy machine. When they had finished, one of them threw his crow- 
bar down in the aisle. Another employee passing that way stumbled 
over the bar and fell forward into the pit where the machine had 
formerly stood. A broken humerus was the result. 




Like these may puncture 
your feet. Throw old 
lumber on scrap pile or 
turn boards so nails 
point DOWNWARD 

Keep your shoes in good con 
dtiion so that nails or slivers 
cannot punch through soles 



Personal Caution is the 
Greatest Safeguard 



FIG. 40. Placards similar to this should be posted throughout the plant. 
(Courtesy Conference Board Safety and Sanitation.) 

An employee engaged in opening a crate left the loose boards with 
nails in them, lying on the floor. A second employee stepped on one 
of the nails and developed a severe infectibn which resulted in three 
months' lost time from work (Fig 40). 

After a building was completed, a loose brick was left on a cross 
beam over an aisle. One day, without any apparent cause, it dropped 
just as the foreman of that department was passing. It gave him 
a very severe scalp wound. The peculiar coincident about this, ac- 
cording to the foreman, was that "he had seen that brick there every 
day for months. " If a keen prevention sense had been developed in 
the employees of this concern, no brick would have been left in such 
a dangerous position. 



ACCIDENT PREVENTION 323 

Protection of Employees from Falling Material. The careless 
stacking of boxes, barrels, filled sacks, files of paper, of lumber, of 
pipes, and of other material, often results in the severest kind of 
accidents. 

A new employee was assigned to stacking 200 Ib. sacks of sugar 
in a warehouse. He piled them to the roof in a careless manner. Sud- 
denly the sacks started to roll and an avalanche of them fell upon the 
employee, breaking his back. 

The foreman was to blame in this case because he had failed to give 
proper instructions to his man. 

Old or broken machinery, broken tools, other appliances in 
similar condition are frequent causes of accidents. 

The explosion of old boilers became such a notorious cause of 
accidents that boiler inspection became a legal necessity. 

Broken ladders have caused many a broken head or fractures in 
other bones. 

In one concern a cracked emery wheel was left unrepaired for 
several months a"s it was not used frequently. One day while in 
operation it broke into a thousand pieces. One man was permanently 
blinded and two others lost time on account of injuries. 

Thousands of examples could be collected of accidents resulting 
from unrepaired apparatus used by employees. Business men intent 
upon the larger problems connected with their plants often neglect 
these smaller leaks which uncorrected are a source of great financial loss 
to them. The plant physician is the logical person to point out these 
conditions. 

In one industry hand infections were very frequent among the 
employees in the packing room. These usually resulted from minor 
injuries such as scratches, nail wounds, splinters, etc. Finally the 
surgeon made an investigation to ascertain the causes of these 
minor accidents. He found that nails were scattered on the floor and 
that boards with nails in them were lying about ready to cause nail 
wound. Goods were brought to the department in large baskets. 
Some of these baskets were old and the cause of many of the scratches 
and splinters was discovered in them. The bins where the goods 
for packing were dumped were lined with tin. In some of the bins 
this tin was loose and furnished a sharp edge where many small cuts 
could occur. Many other apparently trivial conditions were found 
as a cause for these minor accidents. 

In making this inspection the men in the department were freely 
consulted as to how these scratches and splinter wounds were caused, 
and many valuable hints for correction of the same were thus obtained. 
The spirit of prevention was injected into the men by thus seeking 
their co-operation. 



324 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

After the management was apprised of these conditions, steps 
were taken to prevent them. Every employee became a committee 
of one to keep nails off the floor and out of the way. A man was given 
the job of keeping all baskets in perfect repair, and the foreman was 
told to make a daily inspection of all bins and keep them repaired. 

These precautions, combined with the immediate use of iodin 
when a minor injury occurred, practically did away with serious 
infections from this department. 

This rather detailed report is given as one of the best examples of 
the work of the surgeon in accident prevention. It also points out the 
importance of keeping all physical conditions about the plant in repair. 

Safety appliances on machinery have been the means of reducing 
major accidents to employees to a very marked extent. Most con- 
cerns engaged in heavy work such as the steel mills, electrical industries, 
railroads, and hundreds of others have safety engineers who devote 
their entire time to safeguarding machinery. The great number 
of machines that can be safeguarded and the variety of appliances 
make it impossible to go into detail about this form of prevention. 
The Safety First movement has made it familiar to all. The few 
illustrations given will elucidate to every student of the subject the 
importance of familiarizing himself with the specific appliances. 

It is a human trait, however, to grow careless. " Familiarity breeds 
contempt" is too often exemplified by the old workman losing a limb 
on a dangerous machine with which he was so familiar that he neglected 
to use the safety appliance. A careful history of the accident taken 
by the surgeon will reveal this neglect. The doctor should report 
this to the safety engineer or whoever is responsible for making the 
men use the appliances. He can also use this history as a text for 
a bulletin pointing out to the fellow employees how John Doe lost 
his hand by neglecting to protect his saw with the safety frame. 

In other words, the doctor is in the logical position to prevent 
carelessness on the part of the men or on the part of the management 
when there is a tendency to neglect this form of prevention. 

It frequently happens that the safety device adopted by the safety 
engineer is not adapted to the machine and interferes with output. 
In such a case the men will often deliberately neglect to use it. Or, 
the safety device itself may be the direct cause of the accident. 

As an example of this latter condition, I recall two serious accidents 
which occurred as the result of a safety tread which was placed upon a 
stairway. It was a stairway which led into a basement and was used 
chiefly by the women employees. No accidents had occurred here 
but the safety engineer thought he would anticipate trouble by cover- 
ing the steps with a new type of safety tread. Shortly after it was 
installed a girl caught her heel upon the iron tread and fell down the 



ACCIDENT PREVENTION 325 

steps, fracturing her arm. The fact was reported to the safety engineer. 
His report, however, blamed the cause upon the high heeled shoes 
worn by the girl. The next day another girl fell down these steps, but 
no serious consequence resulted. A week later a third girl caught her 
heel in the same way, falling and injuring her leg. 

It is needless to say that this "safety device" was removed, but 
only because the doctor followed up each history and was thus able to 
point out the cause. 




FIG. 41. Properly guarded grinding wheel. (Courtesy General Electric Co.) 

The high heeled shoe worn by an employee illustrates another cause 
of accidents those due to faulty wearing apparel. The shoe with a 
loose sole often is the cause of falls. Or the worn sole will allow 
injuries from nails or splinters. A loose sleeve may get caught in 
machinery, pulling the arm in and causing a severe accident. 

An employee was oiling a shaft five feet above the floor. He 
had a loose sleeve, and besides was doing the work while the shaft 
was in motion a condition that should never be tolerated. The 
sleeve caught and the man was whirled around the shaft three times 
before the torn sleeve released him. His injuries caused fourteen 
months lost time and permanent disability. 



326 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

A safety appliance attached to the employee is another means of 
prevention. The best example of this is the wearing of goggles in 
emery grinding or in any work where steel or other material may fly 
in the eyes. Here again the surgeon will find it necessary to constantly 
watch the employees to see that they observe this form of prevention. 

Dr. Irving Clark of the Norton Grinding Works has some wonderful 
figures showing the almost complete eradication of eye injuries among 
their employees by not only supplying goggles to the men but by, 




FIG. 42. Incorrect way of using goggles. (Courtesy General Electric Co.) 

enforcing their use. Educational campaigns are the greatest means 
of securing the co-operation of the men in this form of prevention. 
Old emery grinders scorned this protection at first. Among these old 
timers were one or two men very adept at removing emery from the eye 
"the eye doctors of the plant." Combined with the use of goggles 
it was necessary to teach the men to report at once to the doctor 
if any particles flew in the eye. The dangers of allowing a fellow 
employee to fool with the eye was impressed upon the men in a 
dozen different ways until at last this rule was observed by all. 

One day in a box factory where old boards, occasionally with 
nails in them, were sawed up, an employee was struck in the eye by 



ACCIDENT PREVENTION 



327 



a flying nail. His goggles were around his neck. He had neglected to 
use them because his foreman, an old timer, didn't insist upon his men 
using the "fool things." The loss of the eye resulted. The history of 
the case was posted throughout the plant by the surgeon as propaganda 
in favor of goggles. The next day a nail again flew from a board and 
struck the goggles being worn by the employee. The glass over one 
eye was cracked in a hundred places but the eye was saved. It was 
an act of Providence for the broken goggle was shown to every 







FIG. 43. Correct way of using goggles. (Courtesy General Electric Co.) 

employee in that department and this, combined with the recent case of 
blindness, drove the lesson home. Even the foreman was converted 
but this didn't save his job (Fig. 44). 

Whenever goggles are used the glass should be of the best material 
that which v\ ill crack but will not fly into splinters. A number of 
such goggles are made. 

Many other appliances worn by employees will prevent accidents. 
The study of each history of accident will enable the surgeon to suggest 
many such means of prevention. 



328 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



We will next consider the second class of accidents: those due 
to some physical or mental condition found in the employees. 

It is quite obvious, even to some hardened foremen, that if a man 
who is blind in one eye, or who has lost an arm, or who has some other 
gross handicap, is placed at certain occupations, he is liable to injure 
himself or to cause accidents to others. Or, if a man is mentally 
deficient, it isn't safe either for himself or for others, to allow him 
to run an engine. These are examples, however, of how certain 
physical or mental conditions in an employee can cause accidents. 




U- si.. - 



-ti-vl n nrtuallv -nini-v h:\l Innp-r than i* 
.iri- the Inrtlimi |k-iir .>uM hiiv.- I.-t l.th 
l mrtnl.li.itl la- mil li |in>lr,-lr<l hy Ihr 



FIG. 44. A poster which should be displayed wherever goggles for employees 
are required. (Courtesy General Electric Co.) 



It is in this field that the surgeon dealing with accident prevention 
can render some of his most effective service to an industry. While 
these gross defects are evident as hazardous conditions, yet there are 
many other things which may exist in employees, making them 
"accident carriers," that only an experienced physician is able to 
discover. 

Just as the frequent inspection of the physical conditions of the 
plant is necessary to prevent accidents, so is the frequent inspection 
of the employees essential to discover these physical and mental causes 



ACCIDENT PREVENTION 329 

for accidents. Here is one of the strongest reasons for the Supervision 
of Employees by medical examinations. 

Every employee sustaining an accident, except perhaps the minor 
accidents where the cause is obvious, should be thoroughly examined 
to discover if any condition existing in him might be the active or 
predisposing cause. 

When examining applicants for work, or when examining an old 
employee, the doctor should constantly be on the lookout for potential 
causes of accidents in the men. An employee with some physical 
handicap may be doing work dangerous for him, but the doctor can 
recommend his transfer to another occupation where he will be efficient 
and yet not be in danger of an injury. 

For example, Mr. A, an apoplectic type, short, fat, and with flushed 
face, was examined. His heart was slightly enlarged and his blood-pres- 
sure was 200 mm. He felt perfectly well and was able to work. But 
his work consisted of sawing lumber on a large circular saw. The 
saw was protected yet if this man had fallen he might have been torn 
to pieces. This was a hazardous occupation because of his physical 
condition. A transfer was recommended by the doctor, and he was 
given the job of measuring and sorting lumber at the same wage. 
Two weeks later while at work he had a stroke of apoplexy. 

An employee with epilepsy, or with a pathological condition liable to 
make him fall, as for instance apoplexy, heart disease, uremia, cerebro- 
spinal syphilis, etc., should never be allowed to work about machinery, 
on elevations, or in other places where he could be seriously injured 
by falling. Such a man may be a potential cause of accidents 
to others. 

The hit and miss method of placing men on jobs without a physical 
examination to ascertain their fitness for the work makes accidents 
from these causes much more frequent. 

Epileptics are very hard to discover by examination. A history of 
attacks or actually seeing the attack are our only means of diagnos- 
ing this condition. Therefore, these cases often become accident 
hazards. Whenever an employee is suspected of or found to have 
epilepsy, the surgeon should carefully study his working conditions 
and recommend transfer to such work as will be safe. Many in- 
dustries refuse to allow epileptics to remain in their employ because 
of this danger of falling and subsequent injury. The state care of 
epileptics with outdoor employment and proper attention to diet and 
other habits is one of the most needed social reforms of to-day. 
Many a sufferer from this disease could be reclaimed by a proper regime 
of work and care. 

Mr. B, a new employee in a printing plant, had been examined 
for work and found O.K. A week later he fell in a fit of epilepsy, 



330 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

striking his head against the printing press, and suffering a skull 
fracture. The loss to the concern amounted to several thousand 
dollars. Four people subject to epilepsy were employed in other 
departments of this plant. The concern cannot be censured because 
they immediately discharged these other men who were liable to fall 
and cause an equal loss. The state, however, can be blamed for not 
providing some place where these men could go for treatment and 
work. 

Mr. C, a ten year employee in a certain plant, who had been 
periodically examined a number of times, reported to the doctor's office 
with a scalp wound. He stated that a box had fallen from a shelf and 
struck him on the head. There had been no witnesses. Two weeks 
later Mr. C reported again with a slight contusion on his cheek and 
a lacerated wound of the nose. This was due to a fall which resulted 
from tripping on a loose board, according to his statement. Again 
there had been no witnesses. Some weeks later this man again came 
to the doctor with another scalp wound. He claimed that he had 
fallen down stairs but no one had seen him fall. 

This man was given an examination which was negative. An 
investigation in his department revealed the fact that an employee 
had seen him fall while in the wash room. When the man was con- 
fronted with this statement he confessed that he had fallen while 
standing in the wash room but didn't know what caused it. 

The examination was then repeated and included all laboratory 
tests. These were again negative even to the Wassermann test on 
his blood. By this time the man had confessed to falling frequently 
due to "faints" and that his other injuries were due to these attacks. 
On account of this history a spinal puncture was made and the spinal 
fluid gave a strong Wassermann reaction. The man was suffering 
from cerebrospinal syphilis causing epileptiform attacks. 

During one year the writer found three cases of cerebrospinal 
syphilis in the same industry. Two suffered injuries due to falling. 
The third had been diagnosed as lead poisoning by his family physician 
because the man was a painter. A thorough study of these cases 
will reveal the cause of the accident, and often of the occupational 
disease, to be due to the physical condition of the employee. 

Dr. James Bordley reports a death and a serious accident in a steel 
mill from an overhead crane, both the result of defective vision in the 
operator of the crane. This man was given a thorough examination 
and his vision was found so defective that the man had no idea of 
perspective. 

A man with serious heart disease was allowed to operate a dummy 
engine in a mine. His heart failure and sudden death resulted in injury 
to several employees who were in the cage being hoisted by this engine. 



ACCIDENT PREVENTION 331 

Innumerable cases of injury to the individual, or to others for 
whose safety the individual is responsible, could be related due to 
some condition in the employee, but these examples suffice to point 
out the lesson. 

The third etiological group of industrial accidents are: those due to 
disaster. 

Of all disasters fire causes more accidents than any other. 
Therefore, the prevention of fires is one of the most logical forms of 
preventive surgery with which the doctor can become associated. 
It is characteristic of our profession's shortsightedness that doctors 
as a rule have never considered it their duty to enter into a campaign 
for fire prevention. We have reduced disease by public sanitation 
but we have not put this same humanitarian effort into the prevention 
of accidents to the public. 

Every industry has or should have its fire brigades, fire drills, rules 
for prevention of fire and means of escape for the employees in case of 
fire. It is one of the duties of the plant surgeon to point out these 
needs and to improve in every way these methods of prevention. 

The National Safety Council has added a section on Fire Prevention 
to its organization. The transactions of this section, obtainable from 
this Association, are worth the study of all doctors and especially of 
industrial surgeons. 

Specialized industries will have their special dangers for disaster. 
The surgeon must familiarize himself with these and make certain 
that proper precautions are taken at all times to safeguard the 
employees. 

MINOR ACCIDENTS 

The same preventive measures outlined for major accidents are 
applicable to many minor accidents. However, every surgeon con- 
nected with industry has found it most difficult to prevent a large 
majority of these minor injuries. 

As a rule, a slight injury never causes any suffering to the employee 
nor any lost time from work with its corresponding loss of wages. 
Likewise, minor injuries occur so frequently to every worker that he 
becomes accustomed to them. These two facts make the prevention 
of minor accidents, and the prevention of complications when they 
do occur, very difficult. 

An employee will get a splinter in his finger time and again. He 
removes it himself or gets some fellow employee to remove it. No 
trouble ever results. But the hundredth splinter results in a serious 
hand infection. It is often impossible to explain why all the other 
splinters were harmless and this particular one caused the trouble. 
For this reason it is hard to make the workman take proper precau- 



332 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

tions with the ninety-nine splinters in order to prevent the hundredth 
one from starting an infection. 

Nevertheless, the prevention of complications from these little 
daily injuries depends upon treating everyone at once as a potential 
trouble maker. 

Examples of minor injuries that are almost impossible to prevent 
and yet frequently result in serious complications, are: 

Dust, cinders, etc., flying in the eyes. 

"Barking" the skin on tools, machines, boxes and other objects. 

Hang nails, often due to the work. 

Pin pricks commonest in girls. 

Wounds from splinters, nails and other penetrating objects. 

Scratches or slight lacerations from nails, loose wire, loose boards, 
paper, and a thousand other objects with which the employee may 
come in contact. 

Contusions from falling objects, striking the finger with a hammer, 
being bumped by a door, and other innumerable ways. 

Slipping on the floor, tripping, and other unaccountable causes 
for falls. 

From early childhood we have been receiving such injuries as these 
and only occasionally has some trouble followed. It is almost sec- 
ond nature to pay no attention to them. Therefore, it takes years 
of patient endeavor to educate a group of employees to take pre- 
cautions when such unpreventable accidents occur. 

These minor accidents must be combated by preventing compli- 
cations from developing, as well as by teaching employees the "art 
of being careful." 

In 1912 the author published the results of preventing infec- 
tions among employees due to these minor injuries. For the six months 
previous to January 15, 1909, the records of the doctor's office showed 
an average of twenty-six infections per month due to minor accidents. 
On that date every department was supplied with a bottle of tincture 
of iodin and another bottle containing applicators (cotton rolled on 
a toothpick). A letter instructing each employee to paint at once 
with iodin every wound received, which broke the skin, was sent to 
every man and woman in the plant. The managers were carefully 
instructed in the value of this procedure and kept a careful watch 
over the employees to see that they observed the rule. A daily in- 
spection was made to see that the iodin bottles were filled and ready 
for use. Immediately these infections began to diminish. At the 
end of the year the records showed an average of eight such cases per 
month, a reduction of 28 per cent. 

Many of these cases of infection which developed should have 
reported to the doctor but they thought the iodin treatment alone 



ACCIDENT PREVENTION 



333 



made this unnecessary. Therefore, we had to add to our instructions 
the immediate use of iodin and then the immediate reporting to the doc- 
tor's office no matter how slight the injury. The importance of this 
preventive measure is further emphasized in the chapter on Hand 
Infections (Fig. 45). 

Some industries may have used iodin previous to the publish- 
ing of this article but these were the first published statistics on the 
results. This procedure soon became quite universal in industrial 
surgery. Those who fail to get the best results fail to provide tinc- 




FIG. 45. BLOOD POISONING. 

John Doe of department 4 scratched his hand on a nail. He failed to paint the 
wound with iodin and to report to the doctor's office at once. He didn't think such a 
slight scratch would amount to anything. To-day John is in the hospital with blood 
poisoning. 

On all injuries, no matter how slight, use iodin at once and report to the doctor at once. 
Example of educational bulletin posted in all departments. 

ture of iodin in a convenient form and in a place easily accessible to 
all employees. To be 100 per cent, effective it must be used 
within two minutes after injury. Also to be 100 per cent, effective it 
should be followed, as soon as the employee can reach the doctor, 
with a protective dressing. It is impossible to say which of these is 
the most important but combined we have the ideal arrangement. 

Some doctors have discarded iodin, which heretofore has proven our 
best friend, since the Carrel-Dakin treatment has received so much 
attention. As Dr. Lauffeur of the Westinghouse Company so forci- 
bly pointed out "iodin has proven its value and is the best prevent- 
ive measure we have yet discovered for infections." This in no 



334 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



way refutes the claims of the Carrel-Dakin solution as a treatment 
agency. 

The protection of hands by gloves, of the eyes by goggles, of the 
legs and arms by asbestos covering when slight burns are liable to 
occur, and other protective methods can be adopted in many industries 
to reduce these slight accidents. 

But the best method of preventing both major and minor accidents 
is by constantly instructing employees how to prevent accidents, 
how to prevent a recurrence of an accident, and how to prevent com- 
plications from developing when an accident has occurred. Com- 
bined with this there must be the most active treatment of every 
injury from the very moment it occurs until it is cured by a surgeon 
skilled in emergency surgery. 

The spirit of prevention must be developed in the management, 
in the rank and file of the employees, and in the medical staff, in order 
to have an efficient human maintenance department. 



CHAPTER XXII 
THE SPIRIT OF PREVENTION 



In this country accident prevention is still in its infancy. It 
started with a few laws requiring the safeguarding of a few certain 
well known hazards. Gradually a few industries began to safeguard 
machinery by safety appliances. This finally led to the Safety First 
movement inaugurated by the National Safety Council a volunteer 
organization. Their work in the beginning consisted of the instal- 
lation of every known device for preventing accidents. The American 
Museum of Safety, established several years ago, was among the first 
to do excellent work along this line by its exhibits of safety devices. 

These and other safety movements starting with the mechanical 
prevention appliances all came to the same conclusion, namely, 
that while these are necessary yet the majority of accidents were due 
to the ignorance and carelessness of individuals. Therefore, to secure 
the greatest results, educational campaigns on Accident Prevention 
must be started and made universal. 

In some countries such as Switzerland, Germany, and to a certain 
extent in England, accident prevention has long been a national prob- 
lem. The governments have their official experts studying the 
problem from every angle. New laws increasing the safety of the 
working people are enacted almost every year. Inspectors to in- 
vestigate and, mark you, to enforce the laws are in the field. And 
the money paid out in compensation makes both employer and em- 
ployee more anxious to reduce the number of accidents. In addition, 
the school children are taught accident prevention and the colleges 
and universities give courses on this subject. Every means to en- 
gender a national spirit of prevention is used. 

The "Stop, Look and Listen" sign at railroad crossings was the 
first educational propaganda for accident prevention ever introduced 
on a universal scale in this country. During the last decade the 
use of signs or bulletins as a means of spreading the gospel of pre- 
vention has become very popular. All kinds of signs are posted in 
trains, street cars, and hi many industries, pointing out the means to 
avoid injuries. 

In a few states the Departments of Industry and Labor, or the 
Industrial Boards, or the State Factory Inspector's Office have made 
the spread of this prevention propaganda one of their duties. 

335 



336 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



One of the best examples is furnished by the State of Pennsylvania 
Department of Industry and Labor under Commissioner John Price 
Jackson and his assistant, now acting Commissioner, Mr. Lew R. 
Palmer. They have formed a corps of experts on disease and accident 
prevention and the medical phase of the work is under the direction 
of Dr. Francis Patterson. While stimulating the use of every known 
safety appliance, yet they have found that the greatest results come 



ACCIDENT PREVENTION POSTER 



EVERY 



person who pays no attention to the 



LITTLE 



cut or scratch may think that there is no danger 
from such a little 



BIT 

of a wound. Accident reports show, however, that 

those are the ones from -which blood 

poisoning usually develops. 

FIRST AID TREATMENT 

HELPS 

to stop deaths from this cause. 

DONT FAIL TO HAVE M1N8R INJURIES ATTENDED TO AT ONCE 



COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA 

DEPARTMENT OF LABOR AND INDUSTRY 



JOHN PRJCE JACKSON. 



FIG. 46. Placards which spread the spirit of prevention. 

from educational campaigns. Below are two examples of the 
placards which are freely circulated to every industry throughout the 
state, to be posted in conspicuous places for the education of their 
employees (Figs. 46 and 47). 

Ohio, Massachusetts, New York, California, and a few other 
states to a lesser degree, have adopted this method of instructing 
workmen. It is applicable to the prevention of occupational diseases 
and many other diseases. It should be used more extensively. 

In order to secure the co-operation of employers, workmen, safety 
engineers and plant physicians, Dr. Patterson organized, some two 



THE SPIRIT OF PREVENTION 



337 



years ago, the Pennsylvania Chapter of the American Association 
of Industrial Physicians and Surgeons, and invites, three times a year, 
representatives of all four of these groups to meet in joint session at the 
State Capitol to discuss both accident and disease prevention. 

The American Association of Industrial Physicians and Surgeons 
are making efforts to persuade every state in the union to adopt a 
similar plan. 



ACCIDENT PREVENTION POSTER 



Number 18 



THE 

country just now needs the services of all 

GOOD 

workmen. It wants every one to live to a ripe 

OLD 

age. Avoid dangerous methods do your work carefully 
and skillfully and thus do your bit for the 



Us 
o 



COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA 

DEPARTMENT OF LABOR AND INDUSTRY 

JOHN PRICE JACKSON. Cgn ."- 



FIG. 47. Placard which serves a double purpose prevention, efficiency. 

In some states the manufacturing associations have quarterly 
meetings to discuss these safety methods. As a result many employers 
have adopted the educational plans for prevention advocated by the 
National Safety Council. 

In some cities the Associations of Commerce have rendered ex- 
cellent service in teaching accident prevention. The Rochester, 
New York, Chamber of Commerce has been very active in both 
disease and accident prevention among the city's industries. Realiz- 
ing that education must begin in the home they prepared a pamphlet 
and circulated it throughout the homes of the city. The following is 

quoted from this pamphlet: 
22 



338 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

" ACCIDENTS IN THE HOME" 

"It is a peculiar thing that accident insurance companies find 
that the bath tub is responsible for the largest number of accidents 
that occur in the home. 

" On first thought it seems extraordinary that this agent of clean- 
liness should have destructive features, but the number of people 
who slip in one way or another and fracture arms or legs or inflict 
minor injuries upon themselves in this way is surprising. 

" Falling down stairs is the next most favored method of inflicting 
injury upon oneself. It is true that the stairways in homes are not 
so well lighted as those in office buildings, stores or factories, but it 
would seem that this lack of light ought to be more than balanced 
by the greater familiarity people would have with their own stairways. 

" The high heeled shoe is responsible for many falls both in and out 
of the house, but it is especially dangerous on stairways where the edge 
of the heel catches and trips the wearer into a headlong fall. 

" Burns, scalds and fires in the kitchen are responsible for much in 
the list of accidents. These occur either through carelessness or 
ignorance of conditions. 

" The tea kettle, half full of boiling water, is taken to the sink to be 
filled, the top removed, the water turned on and the hand kept on the 
handle. The steam may cause her to drop the kettle, thus spilling 
the boiling water upon her. 

" The grease employed in cooking some kinds of food is a source 
of danger because it both spatters and takes fire after being heated 
above a certain point. Burning grease is very dangerous and burns 
deep into the flesh and the wounds heal slowly. Should the grease 
take fire it is extremely difficult to extinguish he blaze. 

"Persons who pull down shelves upon themselves, drop heavy 
weights upon their feet or inflict painful cuts by axes or hatchets, are in 
a class by themselves. The danger is specific in every respect and it 
is for the most part a thankless task to impress upon them general rules 
of carefulness; in other words, it is useless to suggest methods of doing 
things that should suggest themselves. 

" It can be taken as a fact that accidents in the home are due to the 
fundamental causes, haste and carelessness. 

" Will you, gentle reader, turn your attention upon yourself and 
upon these quotations? 'If the telephone or door bell rings, do you, 
in your haste to answer, endanger your life on the stairway or on rugs 
or waxed floor? ' ' Do you mingle caution with your haste? ' ' Do you, 
as you go through your daily routine, remember that it is just as 
important to do each thing carefully as it is to get the thing done?' 

"If by neglecting precautions for your safety and the safety of 
others you increase the cost of living by breaking bones, straining 



STANDARD SAFETY ORGANIZATION INS 



CLASS A plants having 1 to SO 
EMPLOYEES shall have 



CLASS B plant* having 51 to 150 
EMPLOYEES (hall have 



CLASS C plants bavin 
EMPLOYEES shall 



A SUPERVISOR OF SAFETY 
WORK (employer, member of firm, 
manager, superintendent or foreman 
in charge) who shall: 

1. Review and approve inspection 
reports and safety suggestions. 



A GENERAL COMMITTEE of not less than three perso 
Manager, Superintendent, Engineer, Master Mechanic, Fo 

(1) Meet at least monthly and pass on all recommen 
actions. 

(2) Review and approve inspection reports. 

(3) Familiarize themselves with the causes o{ all acci 

(4) See that new employees are properly instructed ; 
practices through the use of bulletins, printed rul< 

(5) Supervise the safety inspection and educational 



A WORKMEN'S 

changed at regul: 

(1) Make n. 

recomm' 

desirabl< 

committ 



A SAFETY INSPECTOR, who shall be a competent person in charge of inspection service and shall: 

(1) Make tegular weekly inspection of the plant. 

(2) Fill out and sign weekly reports showing conditions of the plant and recommendations for change 

(3) Keep these reports on file in the office for review by general committee, state authorities and ir 
carriers. (Standard blanks are furnished by insurance carriers for this purpose.) 

(4) Follow up general lines of outstanding safety work 
Make or arrange for regular inspections of special eq 
each inspection. 

Look after fire conditions, extinguishers, filling of I 
See that drawings and specifications for new equipm 
conductors, etc. 

Inspect new machinery before placed in operation to 
Investigate and report to general committee on all aci 
^^^^^^^^^^^^^ (10) Inspect foi 

and lightin 



(3) 

(6) 
(7) 

(8) 
(9) 



A BULLETIN BOARD (or boards) suitably located on which safety bulletins (which shall be changed at least 

Have on file a RECORD OF ALL ACCIDENTS by preserving di 

QUARTERLY MEET 
not be provided for th 



The classification of plants operating more than one shift shall be determined by the largest i 
The following items indicate the effectiveness of existing organizations and should b 



(i) Written and signed records and reports. 
(*) Cnscctive!y numbered recommendations. 



(3) Summaries of recommendations submitted, executed, and outstanding. 

(4) Absence of rubbish and excess materials in and around plant and working pla 

(7) Use of eye protectors by employees 



Fio. 48. (Courtesy of the National Ma 



PEGT1ON AND EDUCATION CHART 



g 151 to 500 

have 



CLASS D plants having 501 to 1,000 
EMPLOYEES shall have 



CLASS E plants having over 1,000 
EMPLOYEES thall have- 



ns shall be selected from the following: 

reman or other employee in a position of authority and shall : 

dations to determine their practicability and desirability, and keep records of meetings and 

dents for the purpose of devising methods which shall tend to eliminate similar accidents, 
is to the hazard of their work and that employees of different departments are educated in safety 
;s or oral instructions, 
work. 

. COMMITEE consisting of at least three workmen. The personnel of the committee shall be 
ir intervals, preferably by rotation, and the committee shall: 

rt less than one thorough inspection of the plant each month and shall submit written reports of 
snclations for installing, improving or maintaining safety guards or methods which they considc. 
:. These 'reports shall be signed by members of the committee and submitted to the general 



A FOREMAN'S COMMITTEE consisting of at least five foremen of different 
departments, the membership of the committee -shall be changed at regular inter- 
vals, preferably by rotation, and the committee shall: 

(1) Make at least one general inspection of the plant and hold at least one 

meeting every three months for the purpose of standardizing safety 

work throughout the plant. 



A SAFETY ENGINEER who shall 
devote his entire time to safety and 
inspection work and who shall: 



A SAFETY ENGINEER who shall 

devote at least one-half of his entire 

time to safety and inspection work and 

who shall. 

(1) Make general inspections of the plant and equipment. 
(2) Make recommendations for necessary safeguards, safe methods and 

isurance safety precautions. 

(3) Keep* complete records required herein, 
and keep records of same, which indicate progress, 
uipment, such as elevators, cranes, engine and motor stops, etc./ and keep written records of 

ire pails (water and sand) and keeping exits clear. 

ent cover the guarding of dangerous features such as gears, sprockets, couplings, high voltage, 

see that necessary safeguards are provided. 

-.idents. 

maintenance of safeguards, general order and arrangement of materials and stock, cleanliness 

g and for obedience to shop rules. 



monthly) safety orders, rules and information shall be posted. 

iplicates of reports on standard forms furnished by state department having jurisdiction. 

TINGS of employees at which talks on safety shall be given. Entertainment or other business may or may 
ese meetings. . . 

SAFETY LITERATURE such as operating rules, warnings, notices, thrift propa- 
ganda, etc., which should be distributed to all employees in pamphlets, plant 
magazines, pay envelopes, or special bulletins and letters. 



ihift or by the greatest number of employees regularly at work at any time, 
e available for exhibit at all times to properly authorized inspectors: 

(S> Good sanitary conditions, illumination,, and arrangement of tools and stock. 
cet. (6) Use of safe and -.sensible clothing and shoes by employees, with due consideration for 
where necessary or desirable 



hazards encountered. 



nufaeturers Association), 



THE SPIRIT OF PREVENTION 339 

muscles, burning the flesh, to say nothing of the cost of replacing 
destroyed utensils and equipment, are you making yourself the best 
possible housekeeper ? ' ' 

Recognizing that accident prevention depends upon Inspection 
and Education the National Association of Manufacturers has been 
very active in stimulating employers to adopt these two means of 
protecting the lives and limbs of their employees. They have pre- 
pared a plan for a standard safety organization which is now being 



Your Eves 




Are your most valuable asset. . 

I he above eye \vss saved by the goggles. 

Dining the month of May 33 V$ per cent of 
all major accidents were eye cases beside 
89 minoi cases. 

Protect your eyes from flying chips and em- 
ery dust, 

Ask your foreman for a pair of guggles and 

Save Your Eyes 

FIG. 49. Example of anti-accident propaganda among the employees of the General 

Electric Co. 

followed to a certain degree by many manufacturers. Those who 
enthusiastically endorse this plan have secured wonderful results 
because they have adopted it in toto. Others have only half- 
heartedly installed this system and therefore have not succeeded in 
reducing their accidents to as great an extent. In this work the re- 
sults are in direct ratio to the thoroughness of the plan in force. 

As surgeons should be the leaders in establishing this form of 
prevention in their industries this standard safety plan of the National 
Manufacturers'. Association is set forth in detail (Fig. 48). 

The fact that compensation underwriters make a 15 per cent, 
reduction in premiums in those industries where this standard safety 
organization is installed and rigidly enforced, indicates in a way the 



340 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

monetary value of this form of prevention. It is impossible, however, 
to set forth in dollars and cents the great saving to employers, or 
the increased earning capacity from enlarged production which this 
or any other form of accident prevention means to a concern. 

The National Manufacturers' Association, 30 Church Street, New 
York, has secured one thousand lantern slides illustrating safety 
first methods, as well as numerous motion picture reels, which it will 
furnish, free of charge, to those industries desiring to hold meetings for 
their employees on accident prevention work. 

The National Safety Council, the American Museum of Safety, 
the United States Department of Labor, and many of the leading 
industries of the country are all very willing to supply material for 
educational campaigns on safety. Among those industries which 
have excellent material for instruction purposes are the United States 
Steel Corporation, the General Electric Company, the International 
Harvester Company, the Brooklyn Rapid Transit Company, and 
others. 

The Conference Board on Safety and Sanitation, of which Mr. 
Magnus W. Alexander of West Lynn, Mass., is Executive Secretary, 
publishes a monthly periodical called "The Spirit of Caution" which 
is of the greatest value to surgeons and others interested in spreading 
accident prevention material. 

Mr. R. J. Young of the American Museum of Safety has set forth 

the relative value of the various forms of safety work employed by 

the Illinois Steel Corporation during a period of ten years. He has 

. divided their safety work into three branches and estimates the value 

of each as follows: 

I. Organization 45 per cent. 

(a) Attitude of officers 20 per cent. 

(6) Safety committees 20 per cent. 

(c) Inspection work 5 per cent. 

II. Education 30 per cent. 

(a) Instruction of men 15 per cent. 

(6) Prizes 9 per cent. 

(c) Posting of signs 3 per cent. 

(d) Lectures, motion pictures, etc 3 per cent. 

III. Safeguarding 25 per cent. 

(a) Guards 17 per cent. 

(6) Lighting 5 per cent. 

(c) Cleanliness 3 per cent. 

Since organizing the safety committees and securing the proper 
attitude of the officers toward the work is largely educational, it is 



THE SPIRIT OF PREVENTION 341 

quite apparent that at least 70 per cent, of the success in safeguarding 
employees against accident is the result of well organized educational 
campaigns against these accidents. 

It is quite evident that unless the officers of an industry become 
personally interested in accident prevention progress in the work will 
be very slow. Those concerns which are the farthest advanced in 
the safety movement and whose employees have acquired the spirit 
of prevention to the highest degrees are the ones in which the president 
or other executive members of the industry have taken an active 
part in the work. They have become associated with the National 
Safety Council and other such organizations. They attend the meet- 
ings in person and by the giving and taking of suggestions they become 
thoroughly imbued with the ideals of "Safety First." Such men keep 
in advance of their medical staffs and safety engineers rather than half 
heartedly following the advice and suggestions of them. 

Of equal importance to securing the co-operation of the employers 
in such work is to secure the whole-hearted co-operation of the 
employees. 

The organization of safety committees among the employees has 
been a most potent means of spreading prevention propaganda. 
These committees should be changed every year so that a few new 
members are added, thus increasing the number of prevention ex- 
perts throughout the force. Such committees receive suggestions 
from the employees as to means of bettering safety arrangements; 
they are constantly on the lookout for potential accidents; they are 
themselves the seeds of prevention from which the great spirit of 
prevention must grow. 

Qualified inspectors of safety methods are essential in every large 
plant where accidents are prone to occur. These inspectors can be 
of the greatest value to a concern if their vision is broadened to the 
extent that they think in terms of prevention from every angle rather 
than from the standpoint of safety appliances alone. Thus, the in- 
spector who is ever on the lookout for unsanitary conditions in the 
working place, or for unhealthy appearing employees, and has the 
vision of preventing accidents, the result of any cause in the working 
place or among the workmen themselves, is invaluable to his concern. 
Such an inspector will welcome suggestions from the medical staff 
and will work in the closest co-operation with the doctor. If the safety 
experts could better realize this, the value of Mr. Young's inspectors 
would be 25 per cent, instead of 5 per cent, as shown in his table. 

Most of the educational methods have been described. However, 
the use of "prizes" is mentioned in the above outline. These prizes 
refer to the method of giving a bonus, or a prize, to that department 
having the lowest accident rate a plan adopted by several concerns. 



342 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



e 
o 

I 




a 
o 

a 















T *> 

03 


















P. 


















a 














8j< 


x 


















c 


>f 


' tj 
a 















o 2 B 




^ 






si 








||| 


o rt 
a 


H, 

c3 






oc o> 








o l 




T3 

g 






x 








w JZ 0. 


3 


c3 
il 






n 
CM 








1 |i 


i a 

c c > 


c 

a 














< *j| 


4J " 


8 






S | 


^ 




gg 




c5| 


a 

a 








1 





lEf 


SE* 


"a "2 


_o 






UI 

z 


I 


IP 


^ 


*-0 


S-S 


"a 
o 






h- 


^ 


j^^^ 




o "^ ** 


4* 6 


> 





































E 














- 


= ** 


a 


















"S 



























I 
















D 
03 
















M 




^ 




S 


'S 


* 8 B 




w 
1 




w^m 




o 




^ "C MI JQ 


o tj 


1 




^5 






^ 


^3 3 2 


4) 4) 


o 




i 

8 

i 

00 


ETY PRECEPTS 


<tf 

! 



1 


caution is the greatest < 
venting accidents. 


soning is the common rest 
;ht injuries. Report all inj 
ng, to your foreman. Tal 
ke use of the surgical and 
irovided by the Company. 


eads and does not he 
lo rue that careless de 


iO 

d 
A 




M 

1 * 


L 




3 

i| 


OU 

C 
^S 


Blood Poi 
neglecting sli{ 
however trifli 
chances. Ma 
pital service p 


J| 

ll 








THE SPIRIT OF PREVENTION 



343 



This has been a successful means of reducing accidents and has been 
a great incentive to the men to be careful. The careless employee 
who makes his fellow employees lose their bonus because of his care- 
lessness doesn't usually repeat the experiment. 

One of the best means of educating the employees in safety 
precautions is by short, terse statements or warnings printed on the 
pay envelope. These envelopes are usually carried home, thus extend- 
ing the scope of their lessons to the family as well. Many concerns 
have employed this method for disease as well as for accident preven- 
tion. They have developed their own forms of advice and have ex- 




Fio. 51. Safety precepts taught by illuminated sign at works entrance. 
(Courtesy U. S. Steel Corporation.) 

changed with other concerns until almost every angle of prevention 
has been covered. The three pay envelopes herewith reproduced 
illustrate this method (Fig. 50). 

The United States Steel Corporation has large illuminated signs 
over every gate leading into their plant. Every week some new 
safety advice is there for the men to read as they go to then* work. 
This constant educational work is one of the best examples of an in- 
dustry developing the spirit of prevention among its employees. The 
following list of .wordings used on pay envelopes and illuminated gate 
signs was furnished by the management of the United States Steel 
Corporation and is reproduced here for the benefit it may be to others : 

1. The prevention of accidents and injuries, by all possible means, 
is a personal duty which everyone owes, not to himself alone, but also 
to his fellow workmen. 



344 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

2. Do not get into dangerous places until you are absolutely 
sure they are safeguarded; also prevent anyone from going until 
this is shown to be a fact. 

3. Remember it is better to cause a delay than an accident. 

4. Small neglects are apt to cause serious accidents. 

5. Let every employee make himself a committee of one, to prevent 
some one accident. 

6. The failure to obey Safety rules endangers the life of yourself 
or fellow workman. 

SAFETY 

7. It pays to think before you act. 

8. One man's effort toward safety may seem small, but altogether 
can do a great deal. 

9. Every effort in this direction helps. 

10. Be sure everything is safe; then go ahead. 

11. Help to prevent accidents. 

12. Look out for the other man, you might hurt him. 

13. Try to avoid accidents; 

this means 
YOU 

14. Do not work with unsafe tools. Tell your foreman. 

15. Every injury, no matter how slight, should receive medical 
attention. 

16. Never remove or even touch a safety flag, tag or target. 
Always get the man who placed it to remove same. 

17. Safety committees may overlook something. See for yourself 
that all is safe. 

18. Do not fail to notice all danger signs, and if possible, see that no 
one disregards them. 

19. Safety devices are of little value unless maintained and used 
as they are intended. 

20. Careful men are usually efficient; careless men are not. 

21. Use safety devices where provided. Don't take a chance. 

22. Replace all guards and safety devices when through making 
repairs, and before machinery is started. 

23. It is your duty to report unsafe conditions to your foreman 
or superintendent. 

24. Every sign in the mill means that the danger pointed out is 
there. You must obey these warnings. 

25. Don't fool with electricity. It is dangerous. 

26. Look out for loads carried by overhead cranes and do not stand 
under them. 

27. Employees are cautioned to look out for torn clothing as same 
is liable to be caught in machinery. 



THE SPIRIT OF PREVENTION 345 

28. Foremen: Carelessness is dangerous. If workmen insist on 
being careless, discharge them. 

29. The proper inspection of tools and machinery by employees 
using same will help to prevent accidents. 

30. The more you insist upon carefulness on the part of others, as 
well as exercising it yourself, the safer it will be for all. 

31. Be careful in doing your work to avoid accidents to yourself 
and fellow workmen. 

32. Warn a man when danger is near. He may know all about it ; 
if so, no harm is done. If not, you may save him from injury. 

33. To be careless, thoughtless or reckless means injury sooner or 
later to yourself or others. 

34. Employees are forbidden to take short cuts over dangerous 
places. 

35. Every employee, whose duty requires him to work with 
appliances of any kind must carefully examine same and report any 
defects. 

36. We will welcome suggestions from employees on anything of a 
dangerous nature. 

37. Keep off railway or crane tracks, except the regular crossings. 
Before crossing any tracks : Stop! Look! Listen! 

38. To avoid accidents to yourself and others, in case of doubt 
take the safe course. 

39. Always be careful and take no risks. 

40. The exercise of care to prevent accidents, is a duty which you 
owe to yourself and your fellow workmen. 

41. You are responsible for the safety of others as well as of 
yourself. 

42. Beware of blood poisoning. A wire scratch will cause it 
sometimes. 

43. It is your personal duty to see that all safeguards and signs 
installed to promote safety are always in good condition, and report 
all dangers promptly to your foreman or superintendent. The pre- 
vention of accidents is one of your most important duties. 

44. Safety must be the first consideration of all employees. In all 
cases of doubt take the safe course. When in doubt as to the matter 
of a rule, or sufficiency of a proposed precaution, take the matter up at 

1 once with your foreman or superintendent. 

45. Rules and regulations can be adopted, safety devices can be 
attached to machines, guards can be erected and warning signs posted, 
but all are useless unless every man is careful to see that they are 
maintained; unless every man is careful to watch for danger; unless 
every man is careful to warn others of danger. 



346 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

46. Never attempt to make a coupling or work between cars on 
the short side of a curve. 

47. It is as much your duty to comply with safety rules as it is 
your duty to properly perform your work and it is the desire that you 
be thoroughly impressed with this idea. 

48. Don't swing sledge or hammer that you know is working loose 
on handle, thinking it won't come off till "next time. " You may not 
be hurt but what about the other fellow? 

49. Don't expect you* helper to be as good a mechanic as you 
are. He isn't or he wouldn't be a helper. A little explanation as to 
the way the work is to be done may save injury to one or both of you. 

50. At quitting time do not hurry over railroad tracks or through 
dangerous places. Be on the lookout and take sufficient time to be 
sure there is no danger ahead. Serious accidents have been the result 
of not taking this precaution. 

51. Indifference to the safety of others may in the course of events 
sometime place your own life, or that of a member of your family, 
in danger. 

52. A guard is placed on a machine solely for your protection. 
Don't operate a machine without a guard in place. 

53. Stop machine before oiling, wiping or repairing it, and don't 
try to operate a machine you do not understand. 

54. It takes less time to explain why you were late than to make 
out an accident report. 

55. Be sure to warn teamsters and others working in or about cars 
before coupling to moving cars. Men who are working in cars often 
want to remain inside while cars are moving. Don't allow this. 

56. When you find a highway alarm bell out of order, ticklers in bad 
condition, or anything that needs prompt attention to prevent acci- 
dents, make a report of it to the proper person. You may save some- 
one's life. 

57. Don't go between moving cars or engine and car for any 
purpose whatever. The usual reason for going between moving cars 
is to turn the angle cock or life pin when the lever does not work. 
Wait until cars stop. The few seconds' time required is a good invest- 
ment. Many persons are injured and killed every year by failure to 
heed this caution. 

58. Never try to shift a moving belt by hand. 

59. If you know of some machine not properly guarded, don't 
wait until someone gets hurt and say, "I told you so." Tell the 
man in charge of the shop before an accident happens, and ask him 
to supply proper guard. 

60. Avoid jumping upon moving cars or engines. Your work does 
not require it and you cannot afford to take the risk. 



THE SPIRIT OF PREVENTION 347 

61. Never strike tempered steel with hammer or other metal object. 
Many eyes are injured or destroyed from this cause every year. 

62. Watch out for trains. Don't depend on the other fellow. 

63. Keep frogs, switches and guard rails properly blocked. This is 
very important. 

64. See that material is kept a safe distance from track, where men 
on side of cars will not be struck by it. 

65. Always bend nails down before throwing boards away. Many 
serious injuries result from stepping on protruding nails. 

66. Look in both directions before stepping on any track, especially 
in yards. Be particularly careful when crossing track near cars or 
engines and when about to step from the track containing same 
upon another nearby track. 

67. Cultivate a habit of caution carelessness often leads to loss 
of life. 

The medical profession can claim great credit for developing many 
forms of prevention. The public health departments by safeguarding 
the milk and water supply, by stimulating proper sewage disposal, by 
all forms of sanitation and quarantine, have been the means of saving 
millions of lives from disease. Medical scientists have devoted their 
time to the study of the causes of certain diseases and thereby made 
possible the prevention of the same. But our profession has been 
very lax in their efforts to prevent accidents. Industrial accidents, 
claiming a greater toll of life than many of these diseases, have been 
ignored by the majority of physicians. The great preventive surgery 
movement has been left to the laymen to develop. Even to-day 
our best surgeons receive injury cases into the hospital, operate and 
otherwise repair them and finally discharge these patients without 
giving one thought as to means of preventing a similar accident to 
other men. 

A surgeon once said, "That factory is a little gold mine for me. 
I get on the average of two fractures and six hand infections a week 
from among their employees." 

When asked if he had ever inspected the factory to see why these 
accidents were so prevalent, he replied that that wasn't his business. 
This same doctor had been the most active advocate of cleaning up the 
city, providing proper sewage disposal, and otherwise reducing the 
amount of typhoid in his home town. He wasn't mercenary. His 
vision of prevention had simply not broadened beyond the horizon 
of disease prevention. If he had received into the hospital six cases 
of typhoid a week, he would have moved heaven and earth to 
discover the cause of the epidemic and would have been very 
active in securing the removal of the public health officials responsible 
for such a condition. 



348 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

It is quite evident that our educational propaganda against acci- 
dents must extend to the medical profession. Municipal health depart- 
ments must develop a division of safety as well as one of sanitation. 
Health officials, municipal and state officers, and factory inspectors must 
co-operate to secure prevention of accidents in every community. 
This must become a public fight against a nuisance that heretofore 
has been tolerated. For over a year I have fruitlessly tried to have 
"safety," as is sanitation, included as a part of the work of the medical 
department of the Army. 

Yet all of the profession cannot be accused of a lack of vision with 
regard to this form of prevention. Years before the safety first 
movement, started by laymen, developed, a few surgeons connected 
with industry began to point out the need of preventing accidents 
and the need of preventing serious complications when accidents did 
occur. When the National Safety Council was organized these doctors 
pointed out the need of co-operating with the surgeon in industry in 
order to secure the best results This was the basis of forming the 
Health Service Section of the National Safety Council, which deals 
with accident prevention methods from the physician's standpoint. 

At about the same time the American Public Health Association 
formed a section on Industrial Hygiene which deals with occupational 
disease prevention and many other prevention measures including 
accident. 

Both of these National Associations have started movements for 
disease and accident prevention which are directly for the benefit of 
the people of the Nation. They have raised money and are carrying 
out many functions that should be recognized by and have the active 
backing of the National Government. In fact this voluntary machin- 
ery should be taken over by the Government. Both should be combined 
under a Federal Health Administration which would make possible 
the greatest advancement in accident and disease prevention through- 
out the nation. The surgeon in industry has become the stanchest 
advocate of a federalized health and safety department. The two 
must be combined. 

Just as the doctor is finding it necessary to co-operate with and use 
the services of the social worker, so he will find it necessary to co-oper- 
ate with and use the services of the safety expert. The problem 
as a whole involves the field of preventive medicine and preventive sur- 
gery and belongs therefore primarily to the medical profession. When 
will they see the light and grasp their opportunity? 

In all the literature on accident prevention you will find the 
problem is handled from the laymen's point of view almost entirely. 
The outline of the various values of each procedure, as set forth by 
Mr. Young and quoted in this chapter, assigns the best means of 



THE SPIRIT OF PREVENTION 349 

prevention to organization, education and safeguarding. He has 
ignored the most effective agent for accident prevention in any 
industry, namely, the surgeon who is on the job. 

This is not the fault of Mr. Young or of other safety experts. 
It is the fault of the surgeon in industry who has neglected to 
seize the opportunity of becoming the leader in the accident prevention 
work. The surgeon in charge of the human maintenance department 
of an industry should feel most keenly the stigma attached to every pre- 
ventable accident occurring in that industry. Just as he bends every 
effort to secure the best result in reclaiming an injured employee so 
should he strive to conserve the employees by every preventive 
method. 

It is the duty of every plant surgeon therefore to make the follow- 
ing methods a definite part of his duties: 

1. Secure the active co-operation of the executives of your concern 
in accident prevention, by pointing out needed changes, by report- 
ing every accident and how it could have been prevented, to the chief 
executive, and by enthusiastically telling them of steps taken to safe- 
guard against recurrences. Make your reports and suggestions in 
writing, short and to the point. 

2. Instruct the employees individually and in groups in safety 
methods. Use every injury as a text for instructing that employee 
in prevention while furnishing him surgical attention. Every pre- 
ventable accident should be posted on the bulletin boards through- 
out the plant, thus: 

John Doe, of Department 15, is in the hospital with a skull frac- 
ture. One of his fellow employees carelessly shoved a crate from the 
top of a pile of boxes to the aisle below without looking to see if anyone 
was walking in the aisle. The crate fell on John's head causing a bad 
scalp wound and fracture of skull. Always look before letting any- 
thing fall and avoid injuring others. 

Or, in case of a minor accident that later becomes infected, post a 
bulletin similar to the one shown in the illustration. The picture of 
the infected hand and the warning to use iodin at once and to report 
to the doctor at once makes an indelible impression upon most 
employees (Fig. 45). 

3. Make frequent inspections of the plant, first to pick out possible 
accident causes, and second to pick out the employee who because of his 
general appearance^ his methods of working, or his mental attitude, 
might be a potential cause for accidents to himself or to his fellows. 
The surgeon, drawing on his experience of dealing with accidents, can 
be invaluable in spotting these possible causes. 

4. Assist in the formation of safety committees, meet with them, 
and thoroughly instruct them in every angle of accident prevention 



350 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

especially call their attention to the types of employees who can cause 
accidents. Make them inspectors of both the mechanical appliances 
and the human machine. , 

5. Secure a careful history of every accident and follow it up to see 
that the proper precautions are taken to prevent a recurrence. 

6. When inspecting an employee either at work or when he reports 
to the office for any cause observe whether his clothing such as im- 
proper shoes, loose sleeves, etc., might be the potential cause of 
accidents. 

7. Examine every injury case to ascertain if the cause for the same 
lies in the physiqal or mental condition of the employee himself. 

8. Use physical selection of employees for work so that the pre- 
disposed cases will not be placed in hazardous positions. This applies 
to both applicants for work and old employees. 

9. Use every educational method which will drive home the les- 
sons of safety and will cause each employee to be alert to prevent 
accidents to himself or others. 

10. Eat, sleep and breathe Prevention. 

With the growth of industrial medicine and surgery these pre- 
ventive methods are extending to all branches of industry and to the. 
community life of every industrial center. Preventive surgery has 
been born. The fathers of this branch of medicine are rendering a 
service to humanity equal to that of the leaders in preventive medicine. 
The field has just been touched, however. Before us lies the oppor- 
tunity of spreading these principles to the entire nation. 



CHAPTER XXIII 

THE INFLUENCE OF NEW EMPLOYEES AND "SPEEDING- 
UP" ON ACCIDENT RATE 

Many industries in this country were forced to take on great num- 
bers of new employees and to "speed-up" production on account of 
the great demand made upon them by war conditions. Since our 
nation entered the world war this " speeding-up" process has been 
especially pronounced. Such a condition invariably results in an 
increase in the number of accidents, no matter how thorough is the 
system of prevention which has been developed. 

Under average conditions the taking on of new employees simply 
means extending to them at once every facility to become acquainted 
with the accident prevention methods. They are taught the use of 
the safety appliances; instructed in preventive measures such as the 
use of tincture of iodin, and the reporting to the doctor at once when 
injured; they receive more personal attention from everybody. 

But when there is a universal speeding-up of most industries sev- 
eral conditions conspire to frustrate these established methods. The 
labor market is so scarce that concerns feel forced to be more lax 
in the choosing of employees. The ease of securing work causes a 
larger floating labor population. Men jump from job to job seek- 
ing higher wages and other inducements. The short time on the job 
tends to unfamiliarity with the prevention rules. The medical 
staff is unable to examine these applicants as thoroughly as formerly, 
and men are assigned to jobs for which they are physically unfit. 
The green hand in an unfamiliar occupation is always more prone to 
injury. 

Every surgeon connected with an industry has witnessed the great 
increase in both accidents and sickness among new employees, espe- 
cially the "floaters," when speeding-up of production has occurred. 
In an industry where every possible safeguard was used, the working 
force was suddenly increased and every department was speeded-up. 
The following statistics illustrate the resulting accident disability 
increase: 

351 



352 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



TABLK 8 





Jan. 1 to Sept. 30 


Oct. 1 to Dec. 31 


1915 


1916 


Per cent, 
relative 
increase 
or 
decrease 


1915 


1916 


Per cent, 
relative 
increase 
or 
decrease 




10,649 
4,628 
4.83 


12,485 
5,213 
4.64 


+ 17.0 
- 3.6 
- 3.8 


11,937 
2,203 
6.16 


15,238 
2,712 
5.92 


+ 27.6 
- 3.6 
- 3.9 










343 
3,439 


640 
3,411 


+ 32.6 
-15.1 


185 
1,622 


411 
2,915 


+74.2 
+41.8 






Accidents causing more than seven days' 


117 

2,784 


123 
2,005 


-10.0 
-38.4 


45 
1,250 


104 
2,279 


+ 61.6 
+43.0 








409 
566 


469 
450 


- 2.1 
-32.0 


157 
241 


241 
366 


+ 20.3 
+ 19.2 







It is only after a few years of experience and after keeping careful 
records for comparison that the surgeon in charge of the Human 
Maintenance Department comes to realize that these new employees, 
often the transients, are the greatest factor in a high accident rate. 

The author once exhibited great pride in his low infection rate, 
the result of injuries. For weeks there had been no hand infections 
of any moment in spite of the slight, practically non-preventable, 
minor injuries. Then at the Christmas rush many new employees were 
taken on. In one week three very serious hand infections developed 
which caused great loss of time and much expense. Two histories 
will illustrate the point in mind. 

Miss B., employed on November 30, stuck her palm, right hand, 
on a spindle. She thought it was not serious and so did not mention 
the fact. She knew nothing of the rules about painting every injury 
with iodin and reporting to the doctor at once. Two nights later the 
hand became very swollen and painful. Instead of calling the plant 
surgeon (she said she didn't know that she could call him), Miss B. 
went to a doctor near her house, who made a slight incision in the 
palm and put on a dressing. Two days later the nurse called when this 
girl was reported home on account of sickness. The plant surgeon 
after three days took charge of the case and had to deal with a serious 
middle palmar abscess which caused eleven weeks of lost time from 
work. 

Mr. C. was employed on November 27. Just before noon he 
scratched his finger on a nail. As the plant closed down at noon be- 
cause of Thanksgiving holiday on the twenty-eighth, Mr. C. decided 
not to follow the foreman's order to report to the doctor. The foreman 



THE INFLUENCE OF NEW EMPLOYEES 353 

who was supposed to see that iodin was applied simply told the man 
to use it. The next day the finger was badly inflamed. Instead of 
calling at the doctor's office (open at all times), Mr. C. saw a doctor 
who temporized with it. The next day this doctor took him to a 
hospital and opened the finger. This man failing to show up after the 
holiday and neglecting to report any reason, was considered a "floater. " 
A week later, however, his doctor called the plant surgeon in con- 
sultation as the infected finger had to be amputated. The patient 
lost eight weeks time and became a compensable case. 

In both of these examples it is quite evident that the prevention 
regime which should have been in force had fallen down. First, 
the foreman in the case of Miss B. failed to instruct her in the means of 
protecting the spindle point to prevent injury. She was not told 
regarding the use of iodin or reporting to the doctor at once. 
Neither was she instructed as to the means of reaching the doctor in 
case of injury or of complications from same arising after she reached 
home. Again in the case of Mr. C. the foreman neglected to follow 
instructions in regard to preventing infection. He also forgot about 
this slight injury when he dropped the man from the pay roll without 
investigating the cause of his absence. In both cases the fact that 
they were new employees made it possible for these conditions to 
develop without any special blame being attached to anyone. 

These cases happened years ago. With such experiences as a 
teacher, it soon became evident that every effort must be made to 
educate at once every new employee in every preventive procedure 
in operation in the plant. 

The following steps have been taken to accomplish this early 
instruction of new employees in accident prevention in this concern: 

I. Every applicant for work must be examined in the doctor's 
office. The nurse and the doctor seeing each case must, as a routine, 
tell him of the purpose of the office and especially instruct him that 
in case of an injury he is to report to the doctor at once. 

II. The employment manager hands each new employee a little 
leaflet telling of the various activities of the plant looking to the 
welfare of the employees. In this he is told of the purposes of the 
doctor's office and his share in the accident prevention methods in 
vogue. 

III. In the department and elsewhere he sees signs telling him 
to- use iodin at once and report to the doctor at once in case of injury 
no matter how slight it may be. 

IV. The foremen have standing orders to carefully instruct every 
new employee in every form of accident prevention connected with 
his work in particular, and with the plant in general. 

Recent statistics gathered from the iron and steel trades by the 



354 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



U. S. Department of Labor illustrate this relation between labor 
turnover and industrial accidents as follows : 

1. Accident frequency rate per one thousand, 300 work 

days, of six months' experience and under 111.3 

2. Accident frequency rate per one thousand, 300 work 

days, of three to five years' experience 42.4 

It is evident that every industry must resort to more strenuous 
educational campaigns with new employees along lines of disease 
and accident prevention in order to accomplish greater results in this 
direction. Constant appeals to the old employees to help educate 
the new workmen and develop the spirit of prevention among them 
is one of the best methods which can be adopted. 






PART III 
INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE 



CHAPTER XXIV 
MEDICAL EXAMINATION OF EMPLOYEES 

The constant supervision of the health of employees leads the 
physician into many and varied activities. He must meet many of 
the problems of the public health officer, the general practitioner, 
as well as those of the specialists. But above all else he must be a 
thorough diagnostician. 

Early in his work the alert industrial physician realizes that he is 
in the most strategic position to diagnose disease early and, by insti- 
tuting proper treatment at once, to prevent many conditions which 
ordinarily would become serious. This is due to the fact that he sees 
great numbers of cases at the very beginning of their troubles. As a 
rule, a man or woman taken sick at work goes home, tries home reme- 
dies, and lies around for a day or two before calling in the family phy- 
sician. This delay often allows the disease to develop to such an 
extent that many days are lost from work. But when doctors in 
whom the employees have confidence are at hand they will be con- 
sulted at once. 

It behooves these doctors therefore to be constantly on the alert 
to discover any threatened conditions. The prescribing of drugs 
without a thorough examination to ascertain their need, or the care- 
less examination without carefully weighing every symptom, will 
sooner or later result in some preventable mishap which will cause 
both suffering and financial loss to the employee and will reflect seri- 
ously upon the ability of the physician. 

Through centuries of scientific investigations our profession has 
developed more and more exact means of diagnosing disease. Three 
basic principles form the very foundation of all diagnostic effort; 
namely, the history, the physical examination, and the various labora- 
tory examinations. To be thorough all of these must be carefully 
weighed in every case where the least suspicion of disease exists. 

The physician dealing with diseased patients, or curative medi- 

355 



356 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

cine, must utilize all of these methods in practically every case. But 
the physician supervising the health of large groups of people, dealing 
largely in preventive medicine, where he is in a position to study 
the normal human mechanism in thousands of cases, must constantly 
watch for suspicious symptoms or signs and submit those individuals 
to the most thorough examination. 

This routine examination of large groups of people in order to 
discover the diseased Individuals among them develops a different 
type of medical man from the one who is brought in constant contact 
with the diseased patient. It is a common observance among indus- 
trial physicians that the new doctor on their staff discovers many more 
cases of tuberculosis, of heart disease, and of other conditions, when 
making routine examinations of employees, than the doctor trained in 
this work. This is due to the fact that the average physician is trained 
by examining diseased people where findings are usually present and 
where these findings can be interpreted as the cause of the symptoms. 
But when a man is examined who has no symptoms and yet presents a 
few adventitious sounds in his lungs, or a peculiar heart tone, it is 
difficult for this doctor not to explain the same in pathological terms. 

It is very essential therefore for the industrial physician to develop 
a keen sense of the normal in the human body. He must recognize 
that certain changes, the result of previous disease, or of certain 
working conditions, or of numerous other causes, may occur in the 
human organism which will give signs and even symptoms and yet 
are not incompatible with a normal, healthful existence for that indi- 
vidual; while other signs of changes in the body, even when the man 
complains of no symptoms, may be the earliest warning of a pathological 
state. In the latter case the patient must be submitted to a most 
thorough examination, the cause of the sign discovered, and the proper 
steps taken to abort a condition which if neglected may result seriously. 

It is utterly impossible to lay down hard and fast rules whereby 
the beginner in industrial medicine can know when to submit an em- 
ployee to a complete examination which involves all laboratory tests, 
or when to feel satisfied with the routine physical examination with 
the ordinary laboratory tests. Neither can one definitely say just 
what physical handicaps are sufficient cause for rejecting an applicant 
for work, while others are not of a nature to interfere with employ- 
ment. Nor will rules always explain why a certain employee should be 
sent home for some minor condition while another employee with a 
similar trouble can be allowed to remain on the job knowing that his 
resistance will overcome the condition. 

None of these problems is solved by rules. It is only after years 
of experience that one becomes expert in weighing these matters 
and solving them with accurate judgment. The best rule is to always 







MEDICAL EXAMINATION OF EMPLOYEES 357 

give the employee the benefit of the doubt and meet each problem in 
the safest manner for the individual concerned. 

In a large industry hundreds of employees come to the doctor's 
office every day; and the more reporting the greater is the opportunity 
for health supervision. It is impossible to examine all of these people 
and further it is not necessary. Certain ones come for their routine 
examinations; others because of accidents, or because of some slight 
symptom; while others report for various kinds of advice. The 
medical staff, including the nurses, must be so thoroughly trained 
that it is constantly on the alert for that sign, symptom or even casual 
remark on the part of each employee which indicates the need for an 
examination and study of his case. 

Others who are examined must be put in one of three classes: 
normal, no findings; pathological, definite findings; suspicious, in- 
definite findings. Those in the first group require no further con- 
sideration until some condition arises which indicates another ex- 
amination. Those in the second group must be diagnosed and placed 
under observation and proper treatment. In the third class fall 
those cases which reveal findings which must be studied before the 
employee can be definitely assigned to either the normal or patho- 
logical groups. The latter make up the great bulk of re-examination 
cases. Many employeees are found with some suspicious finding 
which on re-examination has disappeared. For example: The case 
which shows a sugar reaction should be examined at least three times 
before pronouncing it diabetes as many of these are only transient 
glycosuria. 

If every medical staff of an industry will develop a keen sense of 
detecting the employees needing examinations, plus the routine 
examination of certain groups, and then will place every employee 
examined iii one of the above classes, it will have -established a firm 
foundation for an efficient system of health supervision. 

The medical examination of employees necessitates engaging the 
services of a greater number of physicians, and enlarging the emergency 
doctor's offices to include examining rooms and laboratory facilities. 
All of this means a greater expense to the industry. Therefore, in 
order to expect industries to adopt such a plan the industrial physician 
must be able to present a feasible system backed up with the strongest 
evidence that it is a good business proposition. 

The arguments in favor of an examination of all employees of any 
industry are based upon the following facts: 

1. That for greater efficiency an employer has the right to demand 
a healthful, physically and mentally normal, working force. 

2. That an employee is justified in demanding a healthful, sanitary 
working place, uncontaminated by diseased fellow employees. 



358 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

3. Good business, as well as a humanitarian spirit, demands the 
conservation of the life and health of employees. 

4. That the medical staff of an industry is employed to act as 
experts in accomplishing the above results. 

In the past the care of accidents has been the chief duty of the 
company surgeon, with very little attention paid to the health and 
working ability of the individual employee. Likewise, concerns 
having company surgeons failed to realize the great advantage at 
their disposal for increasing efficiency by utilizing the expert knowledge 
of these men. 

Conditions are changing. To-day we see many of our industries 
employing safety engineers, experts on ventilation, visiting nurses 
to care for the sick employees and to better their home conditions, 
and a staff of physicians trained to diagnose diseases in their incipiency, 
endowed with a great enthusiasm for results, and a knowledge sufficient 
to master every detail that could possibly lower the resistance of the 
working force. 

Frequent inspections of employees and their work-rooms, instruc- 
tions in hygiene, sanitation, and health by personal talks, lectures, and 
printed articles, will increase the standards of health. But the 
systematic medical examination of employees is the method par 
excellence in this fight for better health among our working people. 
By this means the doctor comes in touch with each employee, giving 
advice and instructions where necessary and establishing thereby a 
personal contact between the medical staff and the working force. 
Many diseases are discovered in their incipiency while still curable, 
thus involving the least expenditure of time or money and therefore 
directly benefiting both the employee and the employer; whereas, 
otherwise, the employee would continue at his work with an inestimable, 
gradual loss in efficiency, until his disease had become incurable, or,at 
best, could only be controlled. Again, by this system of physical 
examinations a great many communicable diseases, for example, 
tuberculosis, are diagnosed and eliminated from the working force, 
protecting thereby healthy employees from an imminent source of 
infection their diseased fellow worker. 

Every employee, male and female, from the head of the concern 
down, should be examined. Naturally, the greatest interest should 
center on the present working force, and here the physical examination 
of employees should begin there should be a general house cleaning. 
This, of course, will take a great deal of time, depending on the size 
of the working force and number of doctors employed. The best 
method is the systematic examination of employees department 
after department until all have been examined. But the examination 
and re-examination of the old working force is inadequate unless the 



MEDICAL EXAMINATION OF EMPLOYEES 359 

portals of the industry are guarded. Therefore, an examination 
of all new employees is the second essential in raising the health 
standards; likewise, it is the first essential in protecting the concern 
from workers who are unfit because of disease. 

When to examine these new employees must be determined by each 
industry. The ideal time is before beginning work. From a practical 
basis, however, this is frequently impossible; for instance, when a 
large number of people are employed, often temporarily, and upon very 
short notice. Therefore, a flexible rule must be adopted so that, where 
possible, every applicant for work shall be examined before employ- 
ment. Otherwise, they shall be examined the first week or month of 
their service. 

Another ideal arrangement in this scheme of medical supervision 
would be the repetition of these general examinations at stated inter- 
vals say, every six months. Again, this in not practicable, especially 
in our larger industries, owing to the number of doctors necessary at 
all times to accomplish this. A comprehensive yet workable system 
which the writer has gradually evolved during the last ten years for 
the examination and re-examination of employees in a large industry 
of Chicago having over 14,000 men and women, is adaptable to any 
concern. 

This consists of a constant, careful watch for employees below par 
by the medical staff, nurses, managers, floor bosses, division heads, 
and even the employees themselves. 

Any employee who at the first examination is found to have the 
least suspicious findings of any disease is filed under the heading of 
" Re-examination." In the course of a week, month, or three months, 
according to the doctor's decision, he is recalled and again examined. 
This is repeated as often as his condition warrants. 

Other types of suspicious cases are assigned to a nurse to have 
temperature and pulse watched morning and evening for stated 
periods. If any abnormal condition is found in the temperature chart 
of such an employee, he is relieved from work until a final diagnosis is 
made and his future care outlined. Again, when an employee re- 
turns to work after some chronic disease has been cured or arrested, 
he is frequently examined to guard against a recurrence. 

All employees who become sick while at work are sent to the doc- 
tor's office for a "pass" before going home. And all employees ab- 
sent on account of illness, of even one day's duration, must secure a 
permit from the physician before returning to work. By this rule, 
the medical staff is enabled to watch those employees most fre- 
quently absent on account of sickness, and thus quite often some 
incipient disease is revealed as the cause of this decreased working 
capacity. 



360 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

When a concern has a benefit association the examination of .every 
employee joining this organization furnishes another source of secur- 
ing re-examinations. 

The visiting nurse is one of the best adjuncts to the doctor's office. 
While visiting a sick employee, she often discovers, conditions at 
home that enable the physician to arrive at the true nature of the 
employee's trouble which might have been overlooked in a routine 
examination. 

Letters and personal talks by the medical staff, backed by the 
influence and instructions of the management of a concern, will soon 
arouse all sub-managers, floor bosses, and division heads to take a 
great interest in the health of workers under them. In time they 
learn to recognize the early signs of disease and are constantly send- 
ing employees for re-examinations. 

This educational system does not stop with those in positions of 
authority, but soon extends to the employees in general, and if their 
confidence is once gained, these become "medical missionaries, spread- 
ing the value of the examination throughout the working force." 

Periodical examinations for occupational diseases, as prescribed 
by certain State laws, where thoroughly made, furnish another 
opportunity for supervision of health. Concerns which are forced 
to employ men in dusty, dark places, or where disease is more prone 
to develop, should always provide frequent medical examinations. 

To recapitulate: the various channels through which re-examina- 
tion of employees can be obtained are: 

Those found at first examination to be below par. 

The repeated examination to guard against recurrences. 

Those becoming sick while at work. 

Those returning to work after an illness. 

Those found by the visiting nurse needing examinations. 

Those referred by managers or others in authority. 

Those referred by fellow employees. 

Those examined for benefit association. 

Those examined for occupational diseases, or where their work 
indicates the necessity. 

The following table shows the great number of examinations of 
employees which can be made during the course of a year, and the 
number of re-examinations made possible by adopting the above sys- 
tem. The examinations of old employees were in practically every 
case re-examinations as the old working force had been thoroughly 
"house cleaned" six years before at the time the system of examina- 
tions of all applicants for work was adopted. The statistics were 
secured from the records of this same concern which, as stated, em- 
ployed approximately 15,000 men and women. 



MEDICAL EXAMINATION OF EMPLOYEES 361 

TABLE 9 

Examinations and re-examinations were secured through the fol- 
lowing channels: 

Examined for employment 17,742 

Old employees completely examined '(including laboratory tests) . . 7,088 
Old employees partially examined 37,906 



Total 62,736 

Re-examinations 

Found at first examination to be below par 4,871 

Examined to guard against recurrences 4,251 

Reporting for pass home on account of sickness 8,272 

Reporting for pass back to work after sickness 18,800 

Referred by the nurses or others of medical staff 1,983 

Referred by managers, fellow employees, or reporting of own 

accord 4,264 

Examined for benefit association 1,299 

Examined because of occupational disease hazards 1,254 



Total 44,994 

T.he partial examinations referred to in the above table were those 
where some local condition was being followed up and where repeated 
thorough examinations were not necessary after they had once been 
made. 

Through these same channels a repeated inspection of employees 
can be made: for instance, every complaining employee who comes 
to the doctor's office should have his temperature, pulse, and weight 
taken. If these are normal and his history is negative and his record 
shows an examination within the last year, further examination will 
not be necessary. 

Whenever an employee with a contagious disease is found working 
in close contact with others, a careful examination of every man and 
woman in this department should be made, to ascertain if any have 
been contaminated. 

To make such a system possible, every concern must provide a 
suitable doctor's office at the plant. This should consist of waiting 
rooms, history, examining, and consultation room, and a general 
office, as well as an operating room (the care of the injured must 
always form a large portion of the company surgeon's work), and a 
well equipped laboratory. 

The size of the medical staff naturally depends upon the number 
of employees and the nature of their employment. For the system 
of medical examinations above outlined, in a concern employing 5000 
people, at least two physicians and four nurses would be necessary 
to accomplish the work. Careful history sheets and records with an 
adequate tickler system should be kept on every case. 



3G2 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

THE EXAMINATION 

This should consist of the following, and is applicable to both 
sexes, with only a few exceptions, which are noted. 

1. History of patient on regular blank, 
(a) Personal and family history. 

(6) Home conditions and financial conditions. 

2. Temperature, pulse, height, and weight. (These can be 

obtained by nurse.) 

3. General inspection color, nutrition, any deformities or 

congenital malformations, gait, etc. 

4. Inspection of mouth, teeth, throat. 

5. Inspection of eyes Snellen's test. 
6 V Inspection and palpation of neck. 

7. Thorough examination of bare chest, 
(a) Lungs. 

(6) Heart. 

8. Examination of abdomen, genitalia, and extremities in men. 
(a) Hernias. 

(&) Venereal disease. 

(c) Varicosities or flat-foot. 

Where history of case indicates some abdominal or other 
trouble in the female employee, the services of the doctor 
for a further and more thorough examination, in the presence 
of the nurse, or the next day when the mother can come with 
patient, are offered. If refused, send to family physician. 

9. A routine urinalysis in all cases albumin, sugar, and 

microscopic. 

10. Blood-pressure and blood examinations in all cases where 

history and examination show they are indicated. 

11. Other laboratory tests such as bacteriological examinations, 

stomach analysis, Wassermanns, z-ray examinations, etc., 
should be provided when needed, either at the plant office 
or at an outside hospital. 

12. Examination of the teeth of employees by a dentist who 

recommends treatment when needed, is a valuable adjunct. 

13. Examination of eyes by a specialist is indicated in all cases 

of defective vision found at routine examination. 

ROUTINE PROCEDURE FOR EXAMINATIONS 

The applicants for work and those employees reporting for routine 
examinations can be handled rapidly and efficiently by the following 
system. 

1. Each patient enters with a pass from the employment depart- 
ment or from his foreman. A girl punches the time of entrance 



MEDICAL EXAMINATION OF EMPLOYEES 363 

to the doctor's office on this pass. This preyents employees from 
becoming lost and spending too much time in the office. It also 
gives a check to the foreman on the length of time spent in going and 
coming from the doctor's office. 

2. Sits in waiting room until a record girl finds and brings employee's 
history sheet to the nurse in charge. The records are pulled in turn 
from names on the passes (2 minutes). 

3. Enters one of the history rooms where nurse takes history, 
secures pulse, temperature, weight and height record, makes eye test 
(Snellen) and records all these on the employee's history sheet (5 
minutes) . 

4. Messenger takes employee to dressing room where he disrobes, 
urinates in specimen jar (boy marks and places in compartment basket), 
and then goes into the examining room. The physician stays here 
constantly, the cases coming to him. By handling ten employees 
at a time the messenger boy is able to keep ahead of the doctor and to 
take specimens in batches of ten to the laboratory where they are 
examined and recorded before the examination is made (5 minutes). 

5. Employee dresses and goes to dentist or, other specialists for 
special examination (10 minutes). 

6. Passes out before a nurse who inspects his record to see that it is 
complete and to note whether he has been referred for some special 
test or examination. Records are collected by this nurse. 

7. Girl punches time of leaving on his pass which she has retained. 
By such a plan the employee that needs no special conference, no 

consultation with others, no treatment or advice can have his ex- 
amination and record completed and leave in 22 minutes. 

Other employees meanwhile are seen by the nurses, the surgeons 
in charge of dressings and the chief of staff who acts as a con- 
sultant, without interfering with these examinations. Eight hundred 
and seventeen patients have been seen and cared for by eleven doctors, 
spending from three and one-half to four hours each at the office, 
and assisted by twelve nurses in the morning and five nurses in the 
afternoon. 

The examination of girls is conducted in the same way except their 
examination only includes head, neck and chest. Careful history 
is obtained in each instance however to ascertain if she should be 
referred for more thorough examination. 

The question of the history sheets and other records used in these 
examinations is dealt with in Chapter XII. 

SOME STATISTICS OF EXAMINATIONS 

It is to be deplored that physicians engaged in this work have been 
entirely too busy to keep careful statistics. Managers of industry 






364 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

often cannot see the value of assigning the necessary clerks to compile 
statistics. Valuable information is contained in the records of these 
industrial dispensaries which should be combed out and contributed 
to medical literature. 

Recognizing the need of some uniform method of keeping records 
in order to facilitate this compiling of statistics, Dr. Warren of the 
U. S. Public Health Service is working on a record sheet which he 
hopes to have adopted by all physicians in industry. Dr. Tucker 
of the Conference Board of Industrial Physicians is also preparing a 
record card. It is to be hoped that within the next year a simple, 
uniform system of record keeping will be adopted by all industrial 
dispensaries. 

I have collected the number of diseased conditions found by medical 
examinations in twelve different industries, representing almost every 
type of work. The total number of examinations made was 276,420 
during a period of five years. The relative incidence of diseased 
conditions found is divided for purposes of comparison into the follow- 
ing groups: 

Group I. The author's findings in 112,000 examinations among 
employees : engaged in clerical work, 35 per cent. ; skilled light occupa- 
tions, 20 per cent.; heavy manufacturing and laboring work, 45 per 
cent. The proportion of female help was about 42 per cent, and of 
male 58 per cent. The average age was twenty-six years. 

Group II. The findings of the U. S. Public Health Service in 936 
steel workers. 

Group III. The findings of the U. S. Public Health Service in 2086 
male garment workers. 

Group IV. The average findings of ten surgeons in ten different 
industries representing clerical, light manufacturing, heavy steel, 
electrical, rubber and other forms of manufacture. 

In going over these statistics from the various industries one is 
impressed with a number of facts: 

1. The majority of industrial physicians are not paying sufficient 
attention to foot conditions and deformities of the extremities. Un- 
doubtedly more careful selection of work for employees so handi- 
capped would improve efficiency. 

2. Only a very small number of these physicians are making care- 
ful tests of vision, otherwise the percentage of eye conditions found 
would have been higher. In Group IV under defective vision I have 
reported the average percentage of two concerns only. 

3. One is impressed with the small number of blind or partially 
blind men that are being employed by these industries. Is this be- 
cause of the compensation laws? 



MEDICAL EXAMINATION OF EMPLOYEES 



365 



Conditions found 


Group I, 
per cent. 


Group II, 
per cent. 


Group III, 
per cent. 


Group IV, 
per cent. 


Average, 
per cent. 


1. Tuberculosis, active. . . 
2. Tuberculosis, sus- 
pected or arrested . . 


01.7 
02.10 


00.92 


3.00 

02.00 


01.40 


01.755 
01.025 


3. Other lung conditions. 
4. Organic heart disease. 
Functional heart 
conditions 


03.10 
02.20 

03.00 


07 17 
02.90 


10 10 

01.80 


05.30 
02.25 


08.418 
02.288 


Arteriosclerosis . 


03 10 










5 Nephritis 


00.80 


00 00 


00 50 


00 20 


00 350 


Q Albuminuria 


01.70 


05 00 


02 30 


03 90 


03 225 


7. Rheumatic conditions 
8. Hypertrophied or dis- 
eased tonsils 


05.00 
40 00 


06.60 
26 80 


00.25 
13 00 


06.20 
03 90 


04.512 
20 925 


9 Hernia 


03.20 


12.60 


07 50 


04 40 


06 925 


Unprotected by truss 
Varicocele , hydro- 
cele and undescended 
testicle . . : 


02.50 
00.80 










10. Varicosities 
11. Flatfeet 


01.00 
04.00 


09.63 
32.80 


03.00 
29.00 


03.20 
05 20 


04.208 
17.750 


12. Amputated members 
13. Deformities ... . 


02.50 


04.28 
21 90 


03.00 
00 80 


01.30 
01 90 


02.740 
06 150 


14. Epilepsy 


00.04 




00 05 


00 02 


00 028 


15. Defective vision 


35.00 






33 90 


17 225 


Blind one eye 


00.40 


00.30 


00.66 


00. 10 


00 . 365 


Blind both eyes 








00 01 


00 003 


16. Deafness 


04.00 






02 30 


03 . 100 


17. Skin diseases 


04.00 






02.40 


03 . 200 


18. Defective teeth 


93 00 






56 90 


37.475 


Anemias 


03.10 










Diabetes . . . 


00.06 










Contagious diseases 
Venereal diseases 


00.30 
00.60 






01 20 

















4. The percentage of tuberculosis cases is higher among the 
garment workers of New York. These figures were taken before the 
working conditions of this group of employees were improved . I am 
told by different physicians familiar with this group of employees, 
that their tuberculous incidence has decreased in the last five years. 

5. The circulatory conditions among employees cause much ineffi- 
ciency and lost time unless these individuals are carefully supervised 
in which case they become, on selected duty, very efficient. The 
incidence of this organic condition is in proportion to the number of 
rheumatic conditions found among employees and from the great 
number of diseased tonsils and bad teeth found both of these condi- 
tions can be accounted for. 



366 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

6. The hernia figures are most interesting. In the industries 
with the heaviest occupations the rate is usually highest one physi- 
cian in a steel mill reporting 14 per cent. Dr. Schereschewsky's fig- 
ures show a much higher rate in the steel employees than he found 
in garment workers, or than I found among employees whose work 
was of a lighter nature. This would seem to bear out the contention 
of some that if hernia is not a traumatic condition it can certainly 
be classed as an occupational condition, being more frequent among 
those submitted to continuous, arduous work. 

7. The venereal incidence is smaller than that found in the army. 
Employees with venereal disease do not seek employment as a rule 
where physical examinations are conducted, and they avoid paying 
visits to the doctor's office for fear of losing their job if their disease 
is discovered. A more generous policy toward these cases by em- 
ployers would be of the greatest help in discovering them and safe- 
guarding all concerned. 

No exhaustive studies have been made as to whether all these 
efforts in supervising the health of employees have resulted in a marked 
reduction in morbidity or mortality. Many examples, however, can 
be given to prove that they have. 

The author found forty-five cases of tuberculosis in 1909 working 
in a plant. Five of these died from the disease because they were dis- 
covered in an advanced stage. In 1913, five years later, one hundred 
and one cases of this disease were found with only two deaths resulting. 
This reduction in the death rate has been constant ever since the 
general house cleaning took place, eight and nine years ago. 

In 1915 there was an increase of 28 per cent, in the member- 
ship of the Benefit Association of this same concern, as compared 
with three years previously. In spite of this increase there was 
a decrease of 20 per cent, in the amount of sick benefits. About 
the time we were feeling unusually happy over these figures there 
was an epidemic of so-called grip which soon destroyed this showing. 
It will only be after years of careful comparison that the real benefit 
of these efforts can be shown in actual figures. 

During the epidemic referred to above the death rate from pneu- 
monia greatly increased in this community. In this concern how- 
ever out of thirteen hundred cases of "grip" during a period of three 
months there were only three deaths from pneumonia. The measures 
taken to discover the disease early and to free the plant at once of 
the infected cases accounted for this reduction. 

Two of the largest industrial insurance companies of the country, 
the Prudential and the Metropolitan have prepared an interesting 
table showing the reduction in the mortality rate from a few specific 
causes. As all those engaged in improving the health conditions of 






MEDICAL EXAMINATION OF EMPLOYEES 



367 



employees are responsible to some extent for these results the table 
is herewith reproduced. 

INDUSTRIAL MORTALITY EXPERIENCE 

Reduction in Mortality from Specific Causes, 1911 to 1914 



Causes of death 


Prudential 


Metropolitan 


Death rate 
per 100,000 


Per 

cent, 
reduc- 
tion 


Death rate 
per 100,000 


Per 

cent, 
reduc- 
tion 


1911 


1914 


1911 1 1914 


Typhoid fever 


18.5 

58.9 
201.4 
17.2 
124.1 
102.8 
17.2 


12.5 

47.7 
182.2 
14.0 
110.3 
95.3 
17.1 


32.4 

19.0 
9.5 
18.6 
11.1 
7.3 
0.6 


19.3 

62.7 
195.3 
14.4 
108.4 
95.6 
16.9 


13.6 

51.3 
176.1 
11.0 
95.0 
85.9 
13.9 


29.5 

18.2 
9.8 
23.6 
12.4 
10.1 
17.8 


Measles, scarlet fever, diph- 
theria, whooping cough .... 
Tuberculosis, all forms 


Bronchitis (acute and chronic) 
Pneumonia. 


All external causes 


Cirrhosis of liver 


Total above causes 


540.1 


479.1 


11.3 


512.6 


446.8 


12.8 





These data are based upon exceptionally accurate statements of cause of 
death and upon very close approximations to the number of the living exposed 
to the risk of death. The two experiences are strikingly similar, they both represent 
large exposures of industrial workers and both show a quite remarkable reduction 
in mortality from the causes specified, all of which are largely preventable. 

The examination of employees is demonstrating a great social and 
economic problem which sooner or later must be faced: that is, what 
is to be done with those diseased workers who are refused positions 
in one concern after another because they cannot pass the physical 
examination? Some arrangement must be made by the States, 
by industrial insurance, or by the corporations themselves, to care 
for these unfortunate men and women who are found below par and 
not desirable as employees. 

The problems which are unfolding because of this new line of 
medical work in our industries are many and serious. This work 
has surely demonstrated the great human wastage which has been 
going on since the birth of our nation, and the appalling need for 
some means of salvaging the disabled employee whether his disability 
is the result of industrial conditions, or otherwise. 

When an industry adopts this system of examination, the number 
of employees found suffering from incipient disease will be excessive. 
For in the first year or two the ratio of those found diseased increases 
directly with the number of examinations. After four or five years, 



368 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



however, the number of diseased employees in the working force will 
be smaller compared with the number of applicants and six month em- 
ployees found diseased (Fig. 52). 

The attitude of the employee toward this medical supervision of 
his health is very gratifying, as a rule. He recognizes its great value 
to himself and his family. Very rarely, and usually only in the very 
ignorant class, does an applicant or an employee refuse to be ex- 
amined. If the management is standing firmly behind the doctor, 
even these few cases can be persuaded. 

DECREASE IN TUBERCULOSIS 

AMONG THE OLD EMPLOYES 



1909 



|5 5/ 



II.* 



B.i* 



13.3* 



II* 



B.i* 



Z7.IT' 



23.?'- 



1914 



1 2. a* 




4.S* 



0* 

45 CASES OF TUBERCULOSIS [155 CASES OF TUBERCULOSIS 
RESULTS OF INCREASED MEDICAL EXAMINATIONS OF EMPLOYES 
NO 5 YR EMPLOYE.5-l30g=5lQ NO 5 YR EMPLOYES-l9H*Z049 

FIG. 52. Medical examinations caused a marked reduction in the tubereulo-is 
rate among the old employees even though the number of these was four times as great 
in 1914 as in 1909. This is true of many other chronic diseases. 

Medical work is growing rapidly in favor with employers as their 
education along these lines is progressing. Labor unions are also 
in favor of this work, providing it is done from a humanitarian stand- 
point. But if done for the purpose of picking only the healthiest, 
most fit employee* without any regard for the welfare of those begin- 
ning to wear out under the strain, then they are opposed to it. 

Five years ago it was my experience to find family physicians 
opposed to all industrial medical systems. A diagnosis of incipient 
tuberculosis, for instance, was often the cause of a severe arraign- 
ment from the family physician and the enmity of the employee and 






MEDICAL EXAMINATION OF EMPLOYEES 369 

his family. If, however, the company physician has thoroughly 
diagnosed his case by repeated examinations and careful laboratory 
study, he is in a position to stand his ground,- and the subsequent 
course usually justifies his position. In time the family physician 
comes to recognize the great value of this careful supervision of his 
patients while they are at work, especially if the employee is referred 
to him for treatment, independently or in co-operation with the com- 
pany physician. 

24 



CHAPTER XXV 
MEDICAL EXAMINATION OF APPLICANTS FOR WORK 

In the various armies of the world one of the functions of the medi- 
cal officers has always been the physical examination of new recruits. 
This was done for the purpose of picking only the physical fit as it 
was felt that only such men could stand the hardships of a soldier's 
life. 

But the economic demand for man-power in all the countries 
engaged in this world war has forced them to adopt a plan of physical 
selection for work of those men not quite fit for general military duty. 
In our own country after the course of a year we are utilizing this 
class of men. Soldiers unfit for general military duty are being as- 
signed to development battalions where they are given training ac- 
cording to their physical ability to stand it, and then are carefully 
classified, by qualified medical officers, and assigned to selected duties 
where they can be efficient in spite of their physical handicaps. Draft- 
ees with physical handicaps are also being sent to camps for limited 
duty men and, after their physical classification, are assigned to 
properly selected occupations. Tens of thousands of able-bodied 
soldiers will thus be freed from lighter duties for the heavy combat 
service. 

This radical change in the practices of the army, which has enabled 
them to utilize man-power to a greater extent than ever before, will 
have a far reaching influence in the employment practices of our 
industries. Henceforth the new recruit in the industrial army will 
be classified physically, as well as technically, and assigned to work 
by considering both qualifications if industry desires the most effi- 
cient system. 

Long before the war a few of our industries had begun a thorough, 
systematic physical examination of applicants for work. In fact, the 
experiences of some of these industries, where this procedure had proven 
both practicable and profitable were influential in establishing these 
new standards in the army. 

There are isolated examples of the examination of applicants 
for work prior to 1912 but it was about this date that the practice 
was introduced to any extent in industry. It is often stated that ex- 
amination of applicants and of employees did not start until after 
certain states had enacted employees compensation acts. True the 

370 



MEDICAL EXAMINATION OF APPLICANTS FOR WORK 371 

enactment of these laws gave a marked stimulus to the method be- 
cause many concerns felt that it was necessary to rule out the 
defectives in order to protect themselves from liabilities. The chief 
surgeon of one of the largest industries in the country expressed it 
thus: 

"No such examinations were conducted by us prior to the com- 
pensation act. It was thought best to let every man apply for a job, 
try himself out, if he could stand up under the work and wished the 
job, it was his. At the present time physical examinations are being 
conducted so as to fit defective men into such posts in our industry 
as will interfere least with existing defects. The physical examina- 
tions also disqualify many men seeking employment. The compen- 
sation liability is too great. The industries do not like to discriminate 
against men seeking employment, as their services are much needed. 
A man with one eye is often a good man for his post yet such a defect 
at present disqualifies. 'Everybody is doing it,' and it was not until 
we were convinced that we were getting only the refuse of the rail- 
roads and steel mills, men who could not qualify in competitive phys- 
ical examinations, that our company began such physical examina- 
tions in May, 1916." 

But those concerns which really initiated medical examinations did 
so before any such laws were enacted, and the basis for so doing was 
not selfish, but solely for the protection of their working forces. Few 
of us in the beginning realized all the ramifications this procedure 
would have in the economic and social existence of our country. 
Some of these ramifications have been for good and some for evil but 
an equitable adjustment for all concerned is gradually taking place. 
And it is an efficiency measure which both employers and labor 
unions now recognize as here to stay. 

In Chapter XXI I have referred to the old system of throwing men 
into jobs without knowing their fitness for the same and the human 
waste and financial loss to employers which such a system involved. 
This hit or miss method of employment is still in vogue in the majority 
of industries. It is one of the chief factors in the high percentage of 
labor turn-over. Inefficiency on the job, needless premature break- 
downs the result of overwork, unnecessary accidents, misunder- 
standings between boss and workman, and the discontent of labor 
can more often be traced to poor health conditions than to any other 
one cause. The physical selection of men for proper work combined 
with proper health supervision is the cure for many of these difficulties. 

WHEN TO EXAMINE 

The only proper time to examine an applicant for work is before 
he is employed. No working force is sufficiently protected from con- 



372 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

tagious diseases in applicants if these are allowed to work for a 
number of days before being examined. The defective new employee 
may cause an accident to himself or others during those early days of 
work before he is examined. The loss in inefficient labor, in breaking 
an employee in to a job and then losing him, and the uncertainty on 
the part of the the employee as to whether he will be retained or not, 
all point to the importance of making this examination before he 
goes to work. Above all it is a gross injustice to employ a man 
and then a month later, because he has some physical defect which 
is found at the examination supposed to be given to applicants, dis- 
charge him because of physical disability. Rightfully he asks if he 
hasn't 'been doing his work efficiently in spite of that handicap. 

An exception to this rule may be made in the case of employing 
a large number of men at one time for temporary work as before the 
Christmas rush. But that concern is the wisest, and after all the 
most frugal, which employs more doctors at such a time and main- 
tains its standards. 

This true example can be given illustrating the bad effects of post- 
poning this examination of applicants. 

J. B. was employed by an electrical concern as a mechanic. Phys- 
ical examinations of applicants were required by this industry but the 
doctors were three months behind in their work. Finally J. B., 
after 3 months of efficient work as a mechanic, was examined and 
it was discovered that he was blind in his left eye. This did not 
interfere in his work but it added to his liability to the concern in 
case of an injury to his good eye. Therefore he was dismissed. 
The doctor who handled this case was ashamed of it and framed up 
an excuse with the man's foreman in order to fire him. If this was 
sufficient reason for not accepting the man for work then he should 
have been examined and refused employment when he applied. 
As it was a great injustice was done the man and his future was 
jeopardized. 

REASONS FOR EXAMINATION 

The industries adopting this system did so for one of the following 
reasons. You will note that some of them are altruistic, good busi- 
ness reasons, while others have a selfish basis only. 

1. To maintain the standards of health among the old employees. 

2. To enable the selection of work according to the physical quali- 
fications of the applicant. 

3. To pick only the physically fit. 

4. To protect the concern from employees who might add to their 
accident liability, thus increasing the insurance premium. 



MEDICAL EXAMINATION OF APPLICANTS FOR WORK 373 

5. To keep out the labor agitator and other undesirable employees 
(claimed by opponents to the plan). 

In most concerns where examinations of applicants are conducted 
the old employees have been thoroughly examined, industrial hygiene 
methods are in vogue, and all forms of health supervision established. 
It is only logical therefore that as far as possible they desire to 
maintain these standards of health. The more comprehensive then* 
standards are however the more broad-minded, as a rule, are they 
toward employing handicapped individuals. 

Applicants with contagious conditions are not employed because 
of their danger to fellow employees. During the course of one year 
in an industry conducting physical examination the following conta- 
gious diseases were found by the author and his associates among 
8000 applicants and were a cause for rejection: 

Cases 

Tuberculosis 102 

Syphilis (active) 10 

Gonorrhea 16 

Diphtheria 8 

Scarlet fever 2 

Measles 6 

Mumps 6 

Streptococcic sore throat 18 

Small-pox 1 

Traucoma 1 

Total 170 

It is self-evident that the health of employees in this industry was 
greatly protected by preventing these applicants from going to work. 
The financial saving to the concern by preventing at least five pos- 
sible epidemics among their working force cannot be estimated. 

In spite of new theories in regard to the absence of danger from 
mingling with tuberculous patients I contend that it is a much 
safer business policy to protect the employees from intimate contact 
with this disease in their working rooms. 

Other applicants are rejected because they have some diseased 
condition that makes work of any kind dangerous for them. No 
health standard can be maintained if a man with a broken compen- 
sated heart, or a girl with an advanced exophthalmic goitre is allowed 
to go to work. The occupation, no matter how carefully selected may 
be detrimental to then* health and cause much lost time from work 
on the one hand and great physical damage to them on the other. 
This does not mean, however, that all organic diseases are causes for 
rejection. 



374 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

The second reason for examining applicants, namely, to enable 
the selection of work according to their physical qualifications, is one 
of the most logical business reasons which can be advanced for this 
procedure. Every efficiency engineer recognizes the value of placing 
"round pegs, in round holes." No method of picking these pegs is 
complete that does not include a physical examination. 

Examples have already been given illustrating the human danger 
and the financial loss that can follow the usual system of throwing 
men into jobs without any thought given to their physical qualifica- 
tions. The example of the man who was employed as a crane operator 
and whose crane was responsible for the death of one man and the 
injury of another is one of the best illustrations we can use. These 
accidents were attributed to other causes but when the crane operator 
was finally examined he was found to have an eye condition which 
destroyed part of his vision, especially his perspective. 

The mental qualifications of a man for types of work must also be 
considered in this selection of the round hole for the round peg. The 
employment manager usually becomes a practical psychologist and 
is able to select these jobs properly. But the physician can often 
detect mental conditions not apparent to the employment man. 
For this purpose he should talk with every employee and applicant, 
asking questions and observing his manner of responding to certain 
requests in order to determine the mental attributes of each. When 
deemed advisable the suspicious cases should be referred to a practical 
psychiatrist for a decision as to their mental fitness for work. Every 
industrial physician can develop this ability of diagnosing mental 
troubles even though he cannot subdivide the conditions into the many 
types of nervous and mental diseases. 

Even after an applicant has been examined and accepted these 
mental cases will be cropping out. The majority of them are only 
functional or temperamental. Often incompatible work will bring 
the temperamental condition to the foreground. 

One employee was recommended for discharge on account of 
inefficiency by his foreman. Before this was done the employment 
manager sent him to the doctor for another examination. The 
man was sullen, morose and above all disheartened. He had been 
working as a packer during the day and studying as a violinist in the 
evenings. The fellow employees were rude to him and he could 
not understand their ways. Physically he was perfect. Mentally 
he was temperamental. A conference between the doctor and employ- 
ment manager resulted in the man being transferred to the position 
of assistant foreman over a department of girl typists. He was 
told to fix up their working room, make it home-like, give the girls a 
little recreation for ten minutes in the morning and afternoon. In 



MEDICAL EXAMINATION OF APPLICANTS FOR WORK 375 

six months he had a glee club developed among these employees and 
other activities started which made the girls enthusiastic about their 
department and most loyal to their foreman and the concern. The 
output of work increased over 50 per cent. This man is now manager 
of a department and is happy in his work. Often the nervous energy 
behind a temperamental employee can be used as a great dynamic 
force if directed in the right channels. 

Those concerns which adopt this system of examination for the pur- 
pose of picking only the physically fit employees may be playing a long 
stroke of business but they are not assuming their share of responsi- 
bility toward society. The handicapped employee is ever in our 
midst. While he has his brain power left he is able to be efficient in 
some selected capacity. Unless this opportunity is given him he 
becomes a non-productive agent and a drain on society. Every 
concern is benefited by all things which improve the social and 
economic conditions of their community. Refusal to assume their 
share of this burden reacts on them as well as on the other industries. 

From a recent questionaire sent out in regard to the employment of 
handicapped men the writer discovered that many concerns, even 
where physical examinations of applicants were conducted, were 
employing such men. Those with diseased conditions unfitting them 
for then* work were rejected, but the disabled men, the armless, the 
legless, the blind in one eye, were being employed. This may be due 
to the fact that man-power is at such a premium now, but the testi- 
mony of most of these concerns would indicate that, where jobs 
are properly selected, these handicapped individuals make better 
employees than the able-bodied, and that as far as they are concerned 
these are permanent employees. 

One concern reported that it employed all legless and one armed 
men who applied and that it had carried out this policy for five years. 
To-day forty such men work here. Five of these have advanced to 
the position of foreman, one to a manager. Their reasons for favoring 
this type of a man were purely business reasons and can be stated as 
follows : 

1. Lessens labor turn-over. These men hesitate to change jobs 
more than do the ablebodied. 

2. Make more loyal employees. They appreciate the opportunity 
given them to work in a world that has heretofore tried to place 
them in the scrap heap. 

3. Lessens troubles from labor agitators because of loyalty. 

4. Have a greater output. They stick closer to the job, do not 
move about the plant as much as one with two legs.; 

5. Are more punctual and have less absenteeism. As a rule they 



376 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

take a more serious view of life, do not use alcohol, stay home of nights, 
and avoid exposures that lead to sickness. 

6. Take a pride in their accomplishments. The reaction from 
those days when they thought they were cripples makes them strive 
the harder to make good. As one of them said: "It takes a lot of 
extra effort at first to overcome your handicap and then when it is 
overcome this extra effort ought to push you away ahead of the other 
fellow." 

One employer was quite proud of the fact that he had a number of 
"cripples" working for him. His chief argument in favor of employ- 
ing such men was "they worked a lot cheaper than the other fellows." 
His plant was visited and the lack of incentive for these employees 
which was witnessed there accounted for them still being "cripples." 
The handicapped man who has overcome his condition and made good 
is never a "cripple." 

So, the concern which is picking only the physically fit employees 
may not possess such a strong business sagacity after all. Usually 
such a one is selfish in other matters and sooner or later this selfishness 
will be their undoing. The lack of loyalty on the part of employees 
who cannot respect their employer is an ever present, incalculable loss 
to any industry. 

With the enactment of employees' compensation laws a great 
stimulus was given to examinations of applicants. Many concerns 
adopted this measure as a means of protection against the employee 
who might increase his accident rate. Practically all the state compen- 
sation laws hold the employer responsible for total disability when 
subsequent injury to an already handicapped individual renders him 
totally disabled. For instance if a one eyed man is employed and 
by accident he loses the other eye the concern must pay compensation 
for the loss of both eyes, that is, total blindness. 

The tendency of all industrial boards to call most hernias traumatic, 
and therefore compensable, placed a ban on the employment of men 
with hernias. 

Insurance companies began to raise the premium rate for concerns 
employing men who were potential accident liabilities. This added 
greatly to the discrimination against handicapped individuals and 
forced many to employ doctors to make physical examinations of 
applicants from this standpoint of protection alone. 

No other one thing has caused greater criticism of physical examina- 
tions of employees than this attitude on the part of employers 
and insurance companies. Few could see that neither physical 
examinations, nor the doctors, were to blame, but rather the compen- 
sation laws which placed this injustice on the employer and the 
handicapped applicant for work. 






MEDICAL EXAMINATION OF APPLICANTS FOR WORK 377 

During the last year the government's plans for the reconstruction, 
re-education and re-employment of the returned disabled soldier has 
injected a new issue, a new viewpoint into the question of employees' 
compensation. All agree that these disabled soldiers must be employed 
by industry. All agree also that the employer should not be held 
responsible for the increased liability due to the handicapped condition 
of these men. Therefore committees, congressmen and state senators 
are considering means of so modifying all compensation acts that 
this injustice will be eliminated. When it is so modified it must 
include the disabled of industry as well in its interpretation. Thus 
will the last excuse for using physical examinations of applicants as 
a means of discriminating against the disabled man be cast aside. 

Many union labor leaders at first bitterly opposed the examina- 
tion of employees. They contended that it was only a means of 
discrimination against the labor union men; of keeping men who were 
radical in their views out of the working force by claiming that the 
doctor had found them physically unfit. 

I doubt if any industry has ever used this as an excuse to so dis- 
criminate. But there is evidence that the doctor has been asked 
to use sickness as an excuse to get rid of some undesirable employee. 
Often it is hard to fire a man and the doctor's office will offer an easy 
solution to this difficulty if the the doctor will only follow directions. 
Knowing this to be a fact we can conceive of these fears, of the labor 
union men, as having some foundation. 

It is imperative that the medical staff of an industry be absolutely 
square at all times with both the employee and the employer. He can- 
not favor one against the other. His decisions must be made altogether 
upon the evidence of the case. Subterfuges which could reflect upon 
his professional honesty will soon rob him of the respect and confidence 
of all. 

REJECTION STANDARDS 

It has often been suggested that a list of diseases and the subnormal 
conditions for which men should be rejected should be prepared by a 
representative group of industrial surgeons. The standards for re- 
jection in the army have been offered as a basis. Such a plan would 
work great injustices on thousands of individuals. The variations in 
occupations, hours of labor, plant conditions, attitude of employers 
toward employees and many other things on the one hand, and the 
variations in the seriousness of specific conditions in different individ- 
uals and the interpretations of the different conditions by the medical 
men on the other hand, make such a standardization of specific causes 
for rejections impossible. 

The case of each individual must be considered separately, and the 



378 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

decision as to his fitness for work must depend upon his individual 
physical and mental qualifications and the nature of occupations 
available in the given industry. 

The Ford Motor Company claims to have the policy of "No Rejec- 
tions for Work." Every applicant is given a thorough examination, 
his physical defects noted, and then he is assigned work where he can 
be efficient in spite of his handicap. Naturally contagious cases would 
not be accepted at once. This careful fitting of the job to the man 
has resulted in the greatest efficiency in this plant. Even men who 
are blind have been found useful and more efficient than others especially 
on the finer electrical work, as winding of armatures. There is no 
attitude of charity in this policy but it is placed on a straight 
business basis. 

For a large concern where many kinds of occupations are represented 
this policy is logical. But a smaller industry perhaps could not find 
employment for every type of handicapped individual without 
introducing the element of charity. 

Representing the other extreme are a few concerns which have 
definite standards for rejection. These reject: all cases of blindness, 
one eye or both; deafness in both ears; badly infected teeth; cases 
of tuberculosis or suspicious lung findings; organic heart disease; 
nephritis; diabetes; all cases of hernia; varicose veins; marked deform- 
ities of extremities; epilepsy; any degenerative nervous conditions; 
syphilis or gonorrhea. These conditions raise their rejection list to 
approximately 15 per cent, of all applicants. They accept many 
employees with minor handicaps and therefore cannot be placed in 
the class of those concerns picking only the most fit material. The 
latter concerns reject from 18 to 20 per cent, of all applicants 

In between these two extremes of accepting all comers and of 
rejecting all with specific conditions, we find a large group of 
industries that have adopted the plan of individual selection for 
proper work. 

No definite standard of causes for rejection can be outlined for 
these concerns but their policy can be stated in general as follows: 

1. All contagious cases must be rejected later they may return 
for examination. 

2. Cases of total blindness are not accepted as a rule. A job 
may be found for some specific case. One eye blindness is accepted 
but assigned to work where the hazard to the good eye is reduced 
to a muiimum. 

3. Locomotor ataxia, paresis and general nervous conditions are 
not accepted as a rule, although the milder forms may be placed at 
selected work. 

4. Epileptics are not accepted by the majority. A few concerns 



MEDICAL EXAMINATION OF APPLICANTS FOR WORK 379 

find suitable work for these individuals where the danger of injury 
resulting during an attack is obviated as far as possible. 

5. Tuberculous cases are rejected. Some of the concerns assume 
the duty of seeing that these rejects are placed under proper treat- 
ment by the city, county or with their family physician. 

6. Other lung conditions are decided on their merits. An asth- 
matic may be rejected because the only work available for him is in 
a very dusty occupation. Careful selection of proper work is neces- 
sary for these cases. 

7. Organic heart disease with broken compensation is a cause 
for rejection for the good of the applicant. Other applicants with 
heart disease can be very efficient in selected positions where excessive 
physical strain is not demanded. In a large group of applicants ex- 
amined for work 3 per cent, were found with heart disease but 
only one-half of 1 per cent, was rejected. The others, in selected 
jobs, made excellent employees, were very loyal because they ap- 
preciated the fact of being employed, had a decreased sickness rate 
because they were more careful and were supervised more rigidly, 
and decreased labor turn-over by staying on the job where these 
advantages were afforded them. 

8. Hernias are a cause of rejection in most of these concerns. This 
is largely because of the legal liabilities assumed by employing these 
cases. This fear has been exaggerated, however. 

Men with hernias are undoubtedly less efficient on all jobs demand- 
ing physical exertion. Even when a truss is worn they unconsciously 
protect themselves by lessened exertion. Some statistics show a 
lessened rate of 20 per cent, in these cases. Considering the large 
number of hernia cases and the small number of men suitable for 
sedentary occupations it is obvious that many of these cases must be 
rejected. Wherever possible, suitable work should be provided for 
them. 

Some arrangement should be made where men with hernias could 
undergo operations. The writer has operated a great many of these 
rejected cases free of charge and then the concern, with which he was 
associated, would employ them after recovery. Such men were able 
to do heavy work and were usually a very loyal group of employees. 
But this plan smacks too much of charity. As an economic responsi- 
bility the state should provide some means of remedying these, as 
well as other, conditions which have an occupational etiology, or, 
because of their existence, have an occupational hazard. 

Undescended testicle, varicocele, hydrocele and similar conditions 
have often formed a basis for rejection on the ground that they pre- 
dispose to hernia. Such conditions should not interfere with employ- 
ment except where they form a definite hazard and no proper work 






380 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

can be selected. Many a man with an undescended testicle lying 
in the abdomen has been rejected, who is just as safe and as capable 
an employee as any other able bodied man. 

9. Varicose veins, especially with ulcers of the legs, often so 
incapacitate a man as to make him unfit for employment. Again, 
a large varicosity adds to the hazards of certain occupations. Many 
such cases must be rejected. But these men on properly selected 
jobs, which do not involve the combination of heavy work and con- 
tinuous standing, can make efficient employees. A concern, however, 
always assumes the liability of a slight injury to the varicose leg 
causing a serious ulcer and prolonged disability. Relief from this 
liability on the part of the compensation act, would enable more men 
and women with varicosities to secure employment. 

10. Severe deformities, even the loss of a leg or an arm, should 
not be a cause for rejection if the industry has work of any kind that 
could be done by such men. All concerns who have employed such 
individuals testify to their efficiency. 

11. It takes a very broad minded employer who will consent to 
the employment of venereal cases. The active syphilitic and acute 
gonorrheal are a menace to the old working force. Therefore they 
should be temporarily rejected. But some plan must be formed 
whereby these cases can be reported and forced to take proper treat- 
ment, and other forms of protection of society from this menace 
made. It is a duty of the state to take up this problem at once. 
A few industries have provided proper care for their employees who 
contract these diseases but none have assumed responsibility for the 
diseased applicant. 

12. Infected teeth, diseased tonsils, defective vision, lack of pro- 
tection by vaccination and other remedial conditions are not causes 
for rejection by most employers. Some, however, have made arrange- 
ments, either in their own medical departments, or with outside medical 
and dental clinics, for the correction of these conditions. Employ- 
ment is granted on the understanding that the applicant will at once 
seek proper treatment. Some concerns even arrange a loan of money 
to these individuals, so that they can obtain this treatment; the loan 
to be repaid in small weekly payments taken from their wages. No 
greater efficiency measure, nor better public health act, has ever 
been initiated in this country. One establishment has extended the 
same policy to venereal cases. 

SHOULD DISEASED CONDITIONS BE EXPLAINED? 

When an applicant is examined for work and a diseased condition 
is found should he be told about it? This is a question that has 
caused considerable dispute among physicians in industry. 






MEDICAL EXAMINATION OF APPLICANTS FOR WORK 381 

If we are working solely for the interests of the employer, and are 
willing to forget our responsibility toward society, then we may take 
the narrow view of this question. But, if we are making these ex- 
aminations solely for the good of the old employees and the applicants 
themselves and if we are thorough and prove beyond a doubt that the 
conditions really exist, we need have no hesitancy in informing the 
individual of his trouble. 

Some concerns forbid their physicians to ever tell an applicant when 
a diseased condition is present. The applicant is rejected by the em- 
ployment manager and does not know that it is on account of health 
reasons. He may have a beginning pulmonary tuberculosis which 
has not yet forced him to seek medical advice. The doctor kills the 
professional instinct that urges him to warn this man of his danger. 
The employer rejects him for work. The man seeks employment else- 
where, exposing others to the disease and allowing it to progress as 
surely as a smouldering fire. He obtains employment in a dusty loft 
and finally is forced to quit work because of consumption. The 
disease *is now incurable. Doesn't a considerable responsibility for 
his death lie at the door of that physician, and the concern who failed 
to warn him when the trouble was still curable? 

Many applicants with kidney, disease, a heart condition, or 
other incipient organic disease, of which they were not cognizant, 
will thank the doctor for telling them of the condition and will seek 
proper medical advice at once. But if they are not told they will go 
elsewhere and seek employment, usually where physical examinations 
are not required, and the work here will do the damage from whicrr 
you saved them in your concern. 

There can be but one answer to this question. Every applicant 
and every employee examined must be kindly and diplomatically told of 
his condition and given the advice that will enable him to seek the 
proper remedy. In order to be sure of his ground the physician may 
have to request the applicant to return for two or three re-examinations 
and careful laboratory tests. This should be done in every doubtful 
case until the diagnosis is made or the suspicious findings proved false. 
A concern whose doctors work thus carefully need never fear the 
consequences of telling an individual when a diseased condition is 
present. 

DO APPLICANTS OBJECT TO EXAMINATIONS? 

The fear of hampering their labor market was the chief objection to 
introducing this system into the plant of the first concern in Chicago 
that started it on a comprehensive scale. To their .surprise, however, 
they found that applicants seldom objected. A radical labor journal 
made quite an attack upon the system but even this did not increase 



382 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

objections. Frequently the remark was heard that "this must be a 
good place to work if the boss looks after the health of his employees 
this carefully." 

The clean, comfortable doctor's office, the smiling nurses, the 
courteous, diplomatic way in which the doctors explained the pur- 
poses of the examination to each one, soon impressed the applicants 
that this practice was done for their good as well as for the good of the 
old employees and the employer. They told their friends about it and 
soon the labor supply for this industry was increased rather than 
limited. As one mother, who had brought her daughter here for 
a job, said: "I would rather my girl worked in a place like this, 
where she is protected from disease, for $5 a week than to mingle 
with people with no telling what's the matter with them, for $15 
a week." 

Out of 9000 applicants examined the first year there were six 
who refused the examination. In 1917 when jobs were plentiful 
there were forty refusals for examination out of 17000 applicants. 
Sixty others refused or failed to return for a re-examination when 
some condition was found that needed study. 

The fact that so many concerns have adopted the physical ex- 
aminations for applicants is sufficient proof that it does not limit the 
labor supply. This procedure must always be done from an un- 
selfish standpoint, and governed by altruistic principles, however, 
or it will in time fall into disrepute. 

FITTING DISABLED TO JOBS 

The subject of fitting disabled men to proper work for which 
they are qualified would fill a volume in itself if the entire field of 
occupations were covered. But from a practical standpoint it in- 
volves just three things which must be considered by both the physician 
and the employment manager jointly. They are: 

1. The nature of the man's disability. 

2. His previous training and occupations. 

3. The finding of the occupation in the industry for which the 
above qualifications fit him. 

If the doctor pays no attention to the occupations to which handi- 
capped men are assigned, or if the employment manager or foreman 
pay no attention to the remarks of the doctor concerning the man's 
physical condition, then no efficient system of fitting disabled to jobs 
is in vogue. 

The actual selection, therefore, is a matter of considering each 
individual case in each industry. Every physician when dealing with 
the problem in its relation to his specific industry will shortly find 






MEDICAL EXAMINATION OF APPLICANTS FOR WORK 383 

a number of positions where handicaps must not be employed. For 
instance : 

Never put men who have been poisoned with lead, or other 
occupational poisons, back where the same hazard exists. 

Never place men with organic heart disease in occupations where 
overexertion could make it worse; where a fainting spell could cause 
injury to them; or where they are responsible for the lives of others, 
as in engineering or elevator operating. 

Keep the men with infected teeth, diseased tonsils and other pre- 
disposing rheumatic conditions out of dark, damp rooms; where 
exposed to extremes of heat and cold, and similar positions. 

Keep the men with hernias off the heavy lifting jobs. 

A long list of these prohibited jobs for men with handicaps should 
be prepared by the physician after a thorough study of his industry 
and should be given to the employment manager and every foreman 
in the plant with instructions from the head of the concern that these 
rules must be obeyed. 

When a handicapped person has once been assigned to a job he 
should never be transferred to another occupation without the consent 
of the physician and the employment manager. To make sure that 
this rule is observed every transfer of men should be made only after 
conference with the employment department where each man's 
record is kept. 

As a result of the return of so many war disabled to industry, 
England has had a commission studying this problem for the last two 
years. This commission has considered each occupation in the 
majority of industries in England, and has described the jobs which 
handicapped men can do, the training necessary to make them com- 
petent in this work, and what special appliances are necessary on 
the machines or on the men. These reports are set forth in several 
pamphlets which can be obtained from His Majesty's Stationery 
Office, London. They are entitled "Openings in Industry Suitable 
for Disabled Sailors and Soldiers. " 

WHAT BECOMES OF REJECTS? 

The problem of what is to become of these men, who because of 
disabilities are refused work in industries, was becoming very acute 
before the war. With the increased demand for labor, the result of 
war production, almost everybody could get a job, including these 
diseased individuals who in normal times would have been rejected. 
It is impossible to estimate how many of these have sickened and died, 
how many accidents they have been responsible for, how much they 
have added to the labor turn-over situation, and to what extent they 



384 INDUSTEIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

have slowed up production. But as industry settles into its normal 
stride it is evident that the physical selection of men for work is 
an efficiency measure which is to be utilized more than ever. How- 
ever, as the economic demand for man power increases even these 
handicapped individuals will be used, but they will be carefully as- 
signed to work in which they can be efficient without adding to their 
disabilities. 

Thus the country is learning its lesson. Undoubtedly these 
disabled men will be provided for in the future. These acts on the 
part of the government are necessary to meet this problem : 

1. Provisions for proper medical treatment for all diseased and 
injured workmen their physical reconstruction. 

2. Provisions for proper vocational training in occupations which 
they can safely and efficiently perform in spite of their disabilities. 
Corporation schools, continuation schools, vestibule schools, and 
other vocational centers are already meeting this problem in some 
places. 

3. Disability, insurance to provide for their maintenance and that 
of their families during these periods of treatment and training. 
Adequate insurance and proper care in case of permanent disability. 

4. Repeal, by an executive order in case of disabled soldiers, 
or by state legislatures, of those portions of the various state compensa- 
tion acts which now cause employers to discriminate against handi- 
capped man. 

During the present emergency our government is making these 
provisions for our disabled sailors and soldiers. A wise, far visioned 
Congress surely will provide these same advantages for the industrial 
army. Industry which is so essential to victory is disabling five 
times as many men and women as the war. What will we do with 
them? 

PERCENTAGE OF REJECTS 

Figures were obtained from eleven industries of the country repre- 
senting many and varied occupations, whose medical staffs are re- 
puted to make very thorough examinations and where all applicants 
are said to be examined. 

The first five of these concerns are known to base their causes for 
rejection on these two points: first, whether the applicant has any 
condition that would make his presence dangerous to the old em- 
ployees; second, whether he has any condition that would make work 
of any kind dangerous to himself. Their percentage of rejections 
vary from none to 3.9 per cent. 

The remaining six concerns consider the above points in reject- 
ing men plus the additional factor of the added compensation lia- 






MEDICAL EXAMINATION OF APPLICANTS FOR WORK 385 



bility if they employ handicapped individuals. Their percentage 
of rejections vary from 9 per cent, to 16.76 per cent. 

These percentages give a fairly accurate index of the number of 
industrial workers in the country who would need to take advantage 
of this opportunity for physical reconstruction and perhaps train- 
ing for proper selected work. 

As these examinations of applicants for work represent the ap- 
proximate number of new men employed it is noteworthy that those 
concerns who have the lowest rejection rate as a rule have the lowest 
labor turn-over rate. 

The attached table gives the percentages of both rejected and de- 
fective applicants as well as the nature of the business conducted 
by these concerns. 

TABLE 10 



Kind of industry 


Number 
applicants 
examined 
in 1916 


Per cent, 
having 
disabilities 
employed 


Per cent, 
rejected 
because 
of disabil- 
ities 


Total 
number 
of 
employees 


Automobile factory 


5.000 


33.0 





35,000 


Garment industry 


7,877 




0.5 


21,800 


Mail order house 


17,642 


25.0 


3.4 


16,000 


Gas company, includes shops, street 
gangs and office force 


2,802 


28.0 


3.6 


4,500 


Grinding industry 


(6 months) 








Engine and boiler foundry 


2,618 

4,475 


98.0* 


3.9 
9.0 


6,000 
6,500 


Electrical manufacturing and muni- 
tion plant 


24,000 


40.0 


14.0 


18,000 


Rubber industry 


33,000 


64.9 . 


14.1 


14,000 


Implement foundry 


1,082 


35.0 


15.0 


3,300 


Electric power plant and city office 
force 


3,645 


5.0 


15.0 


5,100 


Lamp foundry and electric company . . 


2,756 




16.76 





* Includes defective teeth. 



25 



CHAPTER XXVI 
EXAMINATIONS AND CORRECTION OF EYE CONDITIONS 

With the adoption of a thorough physical examination of em- 
ployees and of all applicants for work it soon became apparent that a 
great number of the cases had faulty vision. At first the examin- 
ing physicians would explain this defect to the workman, pointing 
out the lowered efficiency and the resulting handicap to his advance- 
ment due to lessened acuity of vision, and recommend that he 
consult a recognized eye specialist. Some followed the advice but 
the majority failed to do so because "they couldn't afford it," "didn't 
know where to go," "didn't want to lose time from work," or "could 
get just as good glasses at the department store or the corner drug 
store. " 

In order to meet this situation we arranged the following plan 
for the employees under our care: 

1. All with vision below 20/25 should be referred to a competent 
eye specialist for examination and necessary correction. 

2. Those needing glasses would be furnished the same at cost. 

3. The doctor's fee and the cost of glasses would be paid for by 
the firm in every case, the employee repaying the firm in easy 
installments. 

4. The eye specialist would charge a very nominal rate, and could 
afford to do so because of the bulk of work. 

After adopting this plan it was comparatively easy to persuade 
employees with defective vision to take advantage of this opportunity 
of securing proper care. 

Other concerns have had a similar experience and have met it in 
various ways. Practically all agree that some plan similar to the 
above is necessary to meet the great economic waste due to this com- 
mon condition among employees faulty vision. 

Dr. Earle B. Fowler, who has been associated with the author in the 
night clinic on Industrial Medicine and Surgery, at Rush Medical 
College, and has had wide experience in this form of industrial prac- 
tice has prepared the following brief: 

"Primarily the examination of the eyes and correction of defects 
found has been taken up with the purpose of increasing efficiency. 
We have felt that the employer would benefit by selection; by the 
increase in accuracy and quantity of the work; and by justice in the 

386 



EXAMINATIONS AND CORRECTION OF EYE CONDITIONS 387 




settlement of damage claims. The employee would, of course, be 
helped by the same factors; by a careful placing so that a defect 
does not mean a handicap; by increased wage earning ability and 
dependability; and by just recompense when injury causes disability. 
" In the examinations of all applicants for acuity of vision a nurse 
or assistant can carry out the routine accurately. The distance must 
be definite and uniform; the test card evenly and brightly lighted 
with no direct light in the applicant's eye; the vision must be taken with 
each eye singly, using the utmost care in the covering of the unused 
eye; there must be two or three test cards to avoid memorizing in 
questionable cases. The covering completely 
of the unused eye without causing pressure on 
the globe has given the most difficulty, and it 
has been found that the palm of the patient's 
own hand (not the fingers), with the margin 
pressed closely against the nose gives the best 
results provided the applicant is forced to keep 
his head absolutely straight. (A black card 
may be used in the same manner.) This is 
easy to control and he must not be allowed to 
turn even slightly to right or left. Twenty 
feet is the arbitrary distance and in places where 
this cannot be obtained a mirror at ten feet 
(fourteen inch square plate) and reversed test 

type over the applicant's head is very satisfactory, in fact the ad- 
vantage of being able to control the position of the head (keeping it 
straight) and at the same time to point to the letters, leads some to 
prefer this arrangement. The eyes must be at a uniform distance from 
the card (or mirror); sitting forward in the chair results in marked 
inaccuracy. The record is kept in terms noted on the margin of the 
test card opposite the line of smallest type read. A little urging will 
often demonstrate the vision to be better than indicated by the ap- 
plicant's statement that he can read no farther, for many are nervous 
and feel hurried or have waited long and are tired. 

' The requirements applied to this selective test must vary as judg- 
ment dictates. It has been found satisfactory to arbitrarily turn over 
to the surgeon all applicants unable to read the 8/10 (20/25) line with 
either eye alone and leave it to his judgment whether without cor- 
rection 'they will get the best results in the work they are going into. 
The surgeon may carry out his work at the plant, making the com- 
plete examination and prescribing glasses when deemed necessary 
or the applicant may be referred to his office provided it is reasonably 
accessible. The problem of commercial supply of glasses may in- 
fluence in the choice of arrangements, the object being to complete 



FIG. 53. Snellen's vision 
test card. 



388 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

the whole process with the least delay in starting the employee at 
work. If there is a reliable optician in the immediate neighbor- 
hood or one can be located at the plant during certain hours either 
plan for the surgeon's work will be satisfactory, otherwise time can 
be saved by the trip to the office as there will have to be a day spent 
in going for the glasses anyway. It is most important that the frames 
be fitted individually with care and accuracy. As we are caring for 
people of small salaries it is hard to require an employee or applicant 
for work to spend the amount necessary for glasses, and in the at- 
titude of the patient toward this we meet one of our hardest problems. 
Some firms arrange to buy the glasses and charge the amount against 
the employee for repayment in installments. Ordering uniformly 
from one concern will often materially reduce the price. From the 
point of view of the surgeon the use of mydriatics, necessary in at 
least a percentage of the cases, would require much time if working 
at the plant and if there are too many cases referred time can be 
saved by sandwiching these in at the office. Most of these problems 
work themselves out and the method most advantageous to all is 
reached in tune. 

" Another group of referred cases is made up of those employees 
reporting disability from headache, or eye fatigue. In most instances 
a general physical examination is made including nose and throat 
and then they are referred for the correction or elimination of visual 
defects. In a large proportion of these the vision at 20 feet is normal or 
better but varying degrees of hyperopia or hyperopic astigmatism are re- 
sponsible for the symptoms. Muscle balance is carefully examined 
in all of these. Added to this group are the employees, most often 
from the correspondence or clerical departments, typists or comp- 
tometer operators, reported for repeated errors. Though not a large 
number the results obtained with this class have been most important. 

"Cases of injury and inflammation will be discussed later. 

"The question of visual requirements after correction with glasses 
must be left to the judgment of the surgeon. Definite abnormal- 
ities must be emphasized in the record so as to be noted in case of 
transfer from one class of work to another. Poor distant vision does 
not handicap for close work if the near vision is good, but would be a 
menace for one doing truck driving. Great reduction in the one eye, 
a condition very frequently met with, would lead to a designation as 
"unsafe" for elevator operator or similar occupation while not in- 
terfering in another line. Some familiarity with the work in all de- 
partments is a necessary part of the surgeon's training if he is to make 
these decisions with the best results for all concerned. 

"During the first year of this eye work at Sears, Roebuck & Com- 
pany, eye tests were carefully made and the record of vision kept, but 









EXAMINATIONS AND CORRECTION OF EYE CONDITIONS 389 

it was left to the judgment and choice of the employee whether to 
follow the advice given regarding proper correction. As a result 
out of 2000 cases of defective vision found among the applicants and 
old employees only 327 placed themselves under proper treatment. 

"The second year, April 1, 1916 to April 1, 1917, there were 1834 
referred of 20,507 applicants, otherwise acceptable, and in the first 
eight months of the third year, April 1 to January 1, 1918, 1028 cases 
were referred. 

"A brief summary of these cases gives some idea of the need for 
this work. The results are based on the examination of 2652 em- 
ployees, during a period of one year and eight months, referred be- 
cause of defective vision or symptoms of eye strain. The records 
total as follows: 

1. Both eyes less than ^ vision 763 

Of these 289 were improved to normal, 307 to better than 

3^, with a prospect of further improvement as glasses were 
worn, and 12 were not improved. 

2. One eye less than ^ vision 662 

Of these 225 were improved to normal; 318 unproved, but 
not to normal; 119 not improved. In most instances re- 
corded "not improved " the other eye was normal and either 

the prospects of improvements even with glasses were not 
good, or it was felt the patient would not wear glasses even 
if supplied. As the one good eye was sufficient for all re- 
quirements of work the wearing of glasses could not be 
forced. This most important group will be referred to in 
the last part of the chapter in reference to damage suits. 

3. Headaches and eye strain 764 

Of these 493 had normal vision, 271 with reduced vision 
are included in the above. 

"Although detailed records of cases and results at the time of 
fitting have been kept the above is sufficient here. The hardest statis- 
tical work comes in the follow up. In the opinion of department man- 
agers there has been a distinct value to the work. In all instances they 
have accepted our decisions in regard to placing or transferring em- 
ployees. The results of this selection must be speculative; conclusions 
in regard to those in which vision was bettered must also be judged by 
opinions of work improvement. Those in charge give many instances 
of marked increase in quantity and quality of the work of these em- 
ployees either as groups or individuals. It is comparatively easy to 
judge of those reporting for eye strain or headaches. These results 
have been most gratifying as marked improvement or complete relief 
is very definite. The loss of time is reduced at once to a minimum. 



390 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

"Just how much the employer or the employee profits by this 
branch of the work covered in this report we cannot measure, but we 
feel sure it is sufficient to more than balance time and money spent. 
Reports from other firms confirm this in so far as results can be judged 
from observation purely. 

''Since the employees' compensation laws have gone into effect it 
has become important for all concerned that an accurate account of 
vision of every employee be kept. In the group above in which the 
vision in one eye was less than 1/2 normal 60 per cent, were unaware of 
the fact until the routine test brought this out. Without a record the 
possibility of an unfair settlement following a very slight or imagined 
injury in any of these cases is evident. 

"This year a young man applied for a position. Three months 
previous he had passed the vision test for the navy. When he came 
to us a low grade neuritis had reduced vision to right eye, left eye 
6/10. How easily it would have been to convince a jury that a blow 
on the head two weeks after going to work caused blindness. Good 
vision, a blow on the head, proven blindness; our peers do not require 
that pathology be presented. 

"Fortunately the accidents are few. We try to look after all foreign 
body cases and injuries immediately and follow up the treatment 
until the condition is healed. Of course it is optional with the patient 
whether he accepts treatment from the surgeon employed by the com- 
pany or goes immediately to his own. Our only insistence here being 
that he sees someone we know to be thoroughly reliable. 

"If we only take and record vision carefully we have done something 
toward bettering our judgment of an employee's capabilities, also 
we have shown him his deficiences. We do more if we urge or 
demand a correction of these deficiencies, and still more if we help in 
the securing of the correction." 



CHAPTER XXVII 
MEDICAL TREATMENT OF EMPLOYEES 

The amount of medical treatment afforded sick and injured 
employees in concerns having medical staffs varies considerably. 
Most of these take complete charge of the treatment of all injured 
employees when accidents are directly the result of occupations or 
plant conditions. Likewise if a disease results from occupation they 
will assume the medical care. 

Some refer all sick employees to their family physicians, refusing 
even first aid treatment. Others render treatment in certain diseased 
conditions referring all other cases to their family physicians, but 
maintaining some form of supervision over the treatment given these 
employees. Still other concerns furnish complete medical and surgi- 
cal care to all. 

In the majority of cases most plant surgeons have been con- 
scientiously referring the sick employees to then- family physician. As 
a rule they receive excellent care. But in a number of instances 
these cases are neglected, their time loss from work is greatly in- 
creased, and there is a very decided financial loss to both the employee 
and employer. 

More and more the physician in industrial practice is being 
called upon to assume the entire medical care of the employees. 
These physicians feel a professional obligation toward their fellow 
practitioners and usually are very conscientious in meeting this 
obligation. Nevertheless, they are often placed in an embarrassing 
position because of their other obligation to both employer and 
employed. 

The physician responsible for the human maintenance department 
in an industry must be absolutely honest and fearless. Professional 
ethics in its truest form must be his guide. But the old false standard 
of ethics, which prevents a physician from interfering in another 
doctor's case when he sees the patient is being neglected, or which 
prevents him from giving an honest opinion to a patient in order to 
protect another physician's dishonesty, should not be confused with 
true professional ethics. 

SUPERVISION OF MEDICAL TREATMENT 

The advance which has been made from the days when the company 
.surgeon paid no attention to the medical diseases of the employees 

391 



392 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

to the present systems of supervision of their medical treatment 
marks one of the most progressive movements in industrial medicine. 
Its influence presages almost revolutionary changes in the practice 
of medicine. 

In the well organized medical departments of industry no employee 
can remain away from work on account of sickness without the doctor's 
knowledge. This knowledge is obtained through these channels: 

1. An employee becoming sick at work must secure a pass from 
the doctor's office before going home. He is then reported on sick 
leave every morning, by his foreman, until he returns when he must 
obtain a pass back to work from the doctor. 

2. Every employee who cannot come to work, must send word to 
his foreman the morning of his first day of absence. Those who are 
home on account of sickness are reported to the doctor's office. In 
the case of an employee who fails to notify the foreman there are 
many ways of ascertaining the causes of absence. After twenty-four 
hours, if no word has been received, the foreman should send a trusted 
employee to investigate. 

When an employee is home on account of sickness, the visiting; 
nurse calls on him within the first three days of his absence and 
as frequently thereafter as his condition indicates. 

It is her duty to learn the nature of the sickness by talking with the 
family physician and the family. She must make sure that the 
doctor is on the job and that every possible care is being given the 
employee. These nurses even render such nursing aid as bathing 
the patient and preparing certain foods (thus teaching the wife or 
another), cleaning up the room and changing the linen on the bed. 
This is always done with the consent of the family physician. 

These nurses soon develop a keen perception regarding the serious- 
ness of the case and the kind of treatment the patient is receiving. 
When, in her judgment, the case is not progressing properly or there 
is evidence of neglect she reports the same to the chief surgeon. 

Some member of the medical staff then phones the family physician 
and arranges to visit the employee in consultation or alone. Any 
suggestions, such as the employment, by the industry, of a nurse for 
the patient, or the sending of the employee to a hospital, or the need 
of special consultation, or special treatment, are then made to the 
family physician. This is done diplomatically, with the knowledge 
that the concern will pay, or loan the needed money to the family, 
for this additional care. As a rule, the family physician welcomes 
this interest in his patient. Only seldom is it necessary to tell the 
family that the case is being neglected and offer the services of the 
medical staff. 

The following examples illustrate this method of supervision: 



MEDICAL, TREATMENT OF EMPLOYEES 393 

Mr. J. was reported absent on account of sickness by his foreman. 
The next day the nurse called at his home and found that he was very 
sick but had not yet summoned his family physician. The nurse 
secured his wife's consent and asked this doctor to call. The following 
day the nurse again visited the patient and learned that he had pneu- 
monia. The sick room was badly ventilated and dirty. The wife had 
four small children and no help, and could give very little attention to 
her sick husband. The doctor had only called once and was not to 
return unless requested. The patient's condition seemed very serious, 
so the nurse reported the state of affairs to the chief surgeon. 

One of the medical staff, after arranging with the family physician, 
met the latter at the patient's home within a few hours. As a result 
of this consultation, the patient was removed into an airy front room, 
a nurse was put on the case, the industry paying the cost, and in 
ten days the man had passed his crisis. With the care this man was 
receiving, and would have received in the days prior to such super- 
vision, the chances are he would have died. He was a valuable 
employee, was receiving two-thirds of his wages while away from work, 
and in case of death, would have received a death benefit from the 
benefit association. It is evident that from an economic standpoint 
this was good business on the part of this concern. 

Example 2. Jennie J. came to the doctor's office on account of a 
severe pain in her right side. Examination revealed marked tender- 
ness over the appendix region. The blood count showed 16,000 
leukocytes. A diagnosis of acute appendicitis was made. The 
family physician was called on the phone and asked if he wished the 
case sent direct to some hospital. He preferred to have her sent home, 
and promised to call there very shortly. A taxi cab, therefore, was 
ordered, and Jennie was sent home with a card giving the result of our 
laboratory examination and the diagnosis. 

A nurse called the next day and reported back that Jennie seemed 
better, and that her doctor had laughed at our diagnosis as she was 
suffering only from gastritis. The attitude of the family was hostile as 
they felt we had made a serious mistake. The following day the 
nurse reported that Jennie was much worse. The family doctor 
had sent some other medicine out to the house, but the family did 
not think it necessary to have him call. 

When the nurse called the next day she found Jennie suffering great 
pain, and the abdomen hard and distended. She reported over the 
phone to the chief surgeon that the patient was being woefully 
neglected, and would die unless some active steps were taken at once. 

The chief surgeon phoned the family physician and explained the 
situation to him. The latter still contended that it was only a case 
of gastritis. He acknowledged that he had made no further blood- 



394 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

.count. He refused to meet the surgeon in consultation, and stated 
positively that we had no right to interfere with his patient. A 
request to call on Jennie was then made direct to the family. As 
she was receiving benefits from the association they could not very 
well refuse. 

The examination made by the company surgeon at this time showed 
a large appendiceal abscess had developed. The blood-count was 
24,000 leukocytes. The condition was carefully explained to the 
family, and finally their consent gained for an operation. The 
fact that the surgeon would operate free of charge, and that only the 
hospital expenses need be met by them, influenced their decision. 
While the girl was being sent to the hospital the father got in touch with 
the family physician. Just before the operation this doctor appeared 
on the scene and strenuously objected. Consultation was called and 
agreed that it was an extreme case and immediate operation was 
necessary. The father then consented. 

At the operation a large appendiceal abscess was found filling 
most of the right side. Thorough drainage resulted in recovery after 
some six weeks. A year later it was necessary to operate on this girl 
a second time and remove a gangrenous appendix which could not 
be found in the presence of the large amount of pus at the first 
operation. 

The neglect of this case resulted in an avoidable operation and 
eleven weeks of unnecessary lost time from work. This is not an 
unusual example, for every medical staff which is properly super- 
vising the treatment of their employees has had similar experiences. 
No physician believing in true professional ethics, which must react 
to the welfare of both the patient and the doctor, would condemn 
this form of interference in a case receiving such neglectful treatment. 

The number of different forms of quackery which the medical 
staff of a large industry meets is appalling. Some of these practices 
are carried on by known quacks and others by presumably reputable 
physicians. 

If the plant doctors are honestly supervising the treatment, they 
must meet these various forms of quackery with outspoken condemna- 
tion and must use every argument to have the patient seek proper 
medical care. 

A sharp distinction must be drawn between quackery and certain 
legitimate forms of treatment which may not exactly agree with the 
views of the medical staff. In the latter case the physician should 
never belittle the work of the family doctor nor make any disparaging 
remarks about his diagnosis and form of treatment in the presence of 
his patient. The profession soon learns to know if the medical staff 
of an industry is at all times square in its judgment and statements 



MEDICAL TREATMENT OF EMPLOYEES 395 

to their patients and the degree of respect and co-operation given 
by the physicians in a community is influenced accordingly. This 
is important as no system of treatment supervision can be ade- 
quate where co-operation with the family physicians does not exist. 

The following are examples of pure or near quackery which the 
physician in industry is daily called upon to meet and correct. 

1. The Venereal Quack. The methods of these so-called specialists 
for men's diseases are notorious. The extent to which their perfidious 
practices reach out and rob the working classes of our country surely 
is not known, otherwise a government interested in the welfare and 
protection of its people would long ago have eradicated this nuisance 
against society. 

Cases of so-called gonorrhea have been found at examinations 
of employees, who have been under the care of these quacks for months, 
paying a dollar per treatment and receiving the same nightly from a 
lay assistant. Bacteriological examinations of the discharge failed 
to reveal gonococci. Careful inquiry revealed the fact that injections 
of strong solutions of silver nitrate, or of nitric acid had developed 
a marked urethritis thus keeping up the discharge. 

Many legitimate cases of gonorrhea are treated by these special- 
ists and "cured" in two weeks for $25 paid in advance. The cure 
consists of a drying up process. When the recurrence appears they 
can be "cured" again for $20 paid in advance. Often these men are 
convinced that the recurrence is a new infection and must therefore 
pay the usual rate of $25. 

Men who fear they have been exposed to syphilis, or have con- 
tracted the disease go to these quacks. Heavy doses of potassium 
iodid are administered until the typical iodid rash appears and then 
it is easy to convince the patient that he has the disease. Many 
cases have been reclaimed from the treachery of these robbers 
and have been relieved of the terror created in their minds, by the 
"museum" maintained by these quacks and the line of talk handed out 
by them. 

Employees with harmless varicoceles often consult these specialists 
and are led to believe that the condition is serious. Electrical treat- 
ments, expensive "imported" lotions and even more expensive trusses 
or suspensories are sold to them. 

The efficiency of employees, hounded by the fears created by 
quacks, and worry over the debts the treatments involve, is bound 
to be affected. The economic loss to industry from this source cannot 
be estimated. 

2. Patent Medicine Quackery. This is a more insidious form 
of quackery and often very difficult to cope with. An employee 
begins to lose weight and feels badly. He reads an advertisement 



396 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

describing symptoms that correspond to his, or the corner druggist 
suggests that "swampy-root" or "S.S. " or some other patent medicine 
is just what he needs. Secure in the belief that this medicine will 
cure him he takes a vacation to rest up and get in shape again. In 
spite of the four bottles of the medicine he has consumed he grows 
worse and finally returns to the city and consults the physician at 
the plant. Examination shows an advanced tuberculosis. If he had 
consulted a doctor in the beginning instead of an "ad," or a druggist, 
the disease could have been discovered in its incipiency and cured. 
As it is the cure is now accomplished only after a great loss of time 
from work, or oftener he may not be cured at all. 

Such patent medicines, frequently containing a high percentage 
of potassium iodid, have been known to break down tubercles and 
cause a rapid spread of the disease. 

Many examples of the misplaced trust of patients in patent 
medicines, and even in drugs prescribed by physicians, are constantly 
brought to the attention of the medical staff of an industry. This leads 
up to the third type of quack. 

3. The Non-examining, Non-diagnosing Type of Physician who 
prescribes drugs without knowing whether they are indicated or not. 
Many highly respected family physicians would be shocked to be 
placed in this category of "quacks." Yet is is hard to distinguish 
between some of their practices and those of qualified quacks. 

When an employee reports that he has been home for the last month 
on account of stomach trouble, taking three kinds of medicine from 
Dr. J., his family physician; when on careful inquiry you find that 
this doctor h&s never examined the patient; and, when your examina- 
tion reveals a pulmonary tuberculosis as the true condition, it is only 
human to condemn such a hit and miss method of prescribing drugs. 

One of the commonest examples of this type of quackery is the 
giving of medicine to a patient for "kidney trouble." The physician 
at the plant examines the urine but finds no sign of kidney disease. 
On inquiry he learns that the family physician has never even secured 
a specimen of the patient's urine. 

Frequently an employee reports to the office with a severe attack 
of appendicitis. He gives a history of having had a severe pain 
in his abdomen the night before. He went to his family doctor and 
was given some powders to relieve the pain and was ordered to take 
a dose of salts. No, the doctor did not examine him. When this 
physician is called on the phone and told that his patient has an 
acute appendix, he often replies, "Well I was afraid that was the 
trouble last night." I never hesitate to frankly tell such a doctor 
that his neglect to examine the case, and the drugs which he prescribed, 
jeopardized his patient's life. Neither do I hesitate to take this 



MEDICAL TREATMENT OF EMPLOYEES 397 

patient away from his 'doctor and either refer him to some competent 
surgeon, or, if he is not able to pay for proper service, to perform the 
operation myself free of charge. 

The examples of this blind treatment of disease without a thorough 
examination and diagnosis are so frequently brought to the attention 
of the surgeon who is supervising the health of employees, that too 
much emphasis cannot be laid upon this treacherous and dishonest 
practice. Whenever such a case presents itself it is the duty of the 
plant surgeon to tell both the employee and his physician that examina- 
tions are essential to the proper treatment of disease. This frankness 
has been known to influence some family physicians to improve their 
standards. 

Every teacher of medicine should impress his students with this 
great need of proper diagnosis of every case before prescribing drugs. 
A state law providing for the thorough examination of every sick 
person by a physician before drugs are prescribed and further pro- 
viding that no kind of drugs can be dispensed except on the prescrip- 
tion of a physician, would be one of the greatest measures for the 
conservation of man-power which could be adopted. It would at 
once do away with "counter prescribing" by druggists, with the sale 
of patent medicines, and would eliminate the doctor who sits at his 
desk and hands out prescriptions or medicines with barely a glance 
at his patient. 

To-day with so many physicians in the army it behooves the 
government to take adequate steps to prevent the increase of quackery 
and of patent medicine sales which is bound to flourish because of the 
scarcity of competent medical men. This should be a war measure 
for health conservation. 

4. Hernia Quacks. In many cities there are so-called specialists 
who cure hernias by a bloodless operation. The men who patronize 
such quacks are most often met among employees in our industries. 
This operation as a rule consists of the injection of paraffin into the 
inguinal canal. I have later operated on a number of such cases. 
This form of treatment of hernia is a failure and a waste of 
the employee's money and every man with hernia should be warned 
against this method. 

5. Belts, supports, braces, plates and other appliances make up 
another form of quackery which is frequently perpetrated on workmen 
as well as others. Too often after abdominal operations expensive 
belts are sold to these people who can ill afford this additional expense. 
Experience in hundreds of cases of abdominal operations has proven 
that only in exceptional instances are these belts needed. When 
used they tend to make the patients over-cautious about exercising 
or exerting themselves, and frequently prolong the length of dis- 



398 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

ability. I have found a belt necessary in only two out of three 
hundred cases of herniotomy. 

The majority of surgeons would undoubtedly scorn accepting. 
a commission for belts sold their patients, yet we all know that the 
prescribing of these post-operative belts is too often done for the 25 
per cent, commission paid the surgeon or the hospital, instead of 
offering real service to the patient. 

The need for braces and supports should be carefully determined 
before a physician prescribes these expensive appliances. In a few 
cases employees have applied to the Employees Service department 
for a loan in order to buy some such appliance. The case is examined 
thoroughly by the plant physician and then the question of the need 
for this brace is taken up with the employee's doctor. Several times 
this has resulted in a saving to the employee of $40 or more for the 
appliance. Plates for flat-feet are often sold to people without any 
effort being made to correct the faulty type of shoes worn. Often 
these plates are bought on the suggestion of some shoe salesman or of a 
druggist. In too many cases this is a needless expense as the type of 
plate bought does not correct the trouble. 

The useless expenditure of money by employees for these various 
appliances is one of the commonest conditions which the medical 
staff encounters. Electric belts, electric pads for the shoes, porous 
plasters, flannel jackets, chamois vests and innumerable other con- 
traptions come in this category of appliance quackery. 

A large mail order house, which installed this comprehensive 
system of health supervision of employees, including condemnation 
of all forms of quackery and of patent medicines, gives an excellent 
example of a concern "practicing what it preaches." The writer 
was told to go over their drug catalogue and cross off every patent 
medicine and every appliance which they were selling which could 
in any way be detrimental, or of no value, to the buyer. As a result 
this concern deliberately ceased to sell patent medicines thereby cut- 
ting off profits amounting to $180,000 a year. It retained for sale 
only those drugs commonly used as household remedies such as castor 
oil, Epsom salts, soda bicarbonate, etc. 

If all manufacturers and retailers of the obnoxious types of patent 
medicines would voluntarily adopt such a principle the effect on 
the health of the nation would be incalculable. In the absence of 
voluntary action some legal action should be taken. 

The medical staff which is responsible for the supervision of the 
medical treatment of employees must in every case, first, determine 
if the best possible treatment is being given; second, if all adjuncts 
which will help hasten the patient's recovery are being used and if not, 
see that the concern provides these when the family cannot afford to do 



MEDICAL TREATMENT OF EMPLOYEES 399 

so; third, if interference in the treatment of the case is necessary; fourth, 
advise the employees against the wrong line of treatment, against 
quacks the use of patent medicines and all other forms of quackery; 
and fifth, use every means of educating the employees to a knowledge 
of what constitutes 'proper medical treatment. The employee who 
once learns this will demand more scientific care from his physician. 

WHAT CASES SHOULD BE TREATED? 

Granting that the medical staff of an industry is to refer all cases of 
sickness that rightfully belong to the family physician, then what 
cases should this staff treat? 

The real purpose of an industry in establishing an expensive med- 
ical system is to reduce the amount of sickness and injuries among 
its employees, and to reduce the amount of lost time from work to 
a minimum when these do occur. It is purely a business proposi- 
tion with them. However, due largely to the influence of their physi- 
cians, they recognize the claims of the family physician and the rights 
of employees to choose their own doctor. 

But in many cases better results are obtained and there is less 
financial loss to the concern if they take complete charge of the treat- 
ment. Again they feel that their responsibility toward the working 
force and society in general has a greater claim on them than the rights 
of any individual physician and for this reason they assume the care 
of certain types of cases. In other instances they demand that em- 
ployees undergo certain forms of treatment in order to improve their 
health and make them more efficient, and therefore it is the employer's 
duty to see that proper treatment is rendered them. 

As the medical staffs, by their work, have demonstrated the value 
of proper treatment in these various types of cases, it is only natural 
for the management to demand that this treatment be given. This 
is not written in defense of the practice but rather to show the pro- 
fession at large why it is done. 

1. Treatment is given by the company surgeons to all injured 
employees when their work is responsible for the injury. The sur- 
geon, trained in emergency surgery, and responsible to the manage- 
ment for results, as a rule gives more active treatment, gets the em- 
ployee back on the job quicker, and strives to return him with the 
best possible restoration of function. The cost of this surgical care 
is less to the concern than if these cases went to outside surgeons. 
It has proven a good business proposition to the industry. 

A great number of employees are injured at home. Many would 
neglect the injury if compelled to pay a doctor's fee for the dressing 
of what seems to them a trivial wound. These cases can be treated 



400 

in the doctor's office and complications with loss of time from work 
avoided in many instances. 

2. Employees with certain diseased conditions are dangerous to 
the rest of the working force. The tuberculous, the syphilitics, and 
those with acute contagious diseases are examples. 

Some concerns seek out these tuberculous employees and forbid 
them working in the plant. It would be an injustice to these sick 
employees, and to society at large, if they were discharged outright. 
Therefore these concerns have assumed the responsibility of giving 
such cases proper sanitorium care, paying all their expenses, and often 
providing an allowance to the family during the absence of the wage 
earner. No better safeguard to the public health of a community 
can be conceived, and certainly no family physician should object 
to the treatment of these cases. 

Most employers discharge all active venereal cases on the ground 
of protecting the old force. One or two concerns have adopted the 
same policy in these cases as for tuberculosis, and are providing 
proper treatment for them, while at the same time steps are taken to 
protect others from infection. Careful treatment combined with 
proper selected work, hastens their recovery and prevents compli- 
cations. This is a direct financial gain to the employer whereas 
the old plan meant undue loss of time or expensive labor turn-over. 

Close co-operation between the municipal health departments and 
the medical staff in the case of acute contagious diseases has resulted 
in better control and better care for these. 

3. Employees with bad r teeth, diseased tonsils, uncorrected defect- 
ive vision and many other conditions are often inefficient workers 
because of the undermining of their health. When these are found 
the medical staff offers to take care of them free of charge, or provides 
for their care by some specialist employed for the purpose. Often 
money is loaned to employees to pay for this service and the company 
dentist or the doctors arrange for some specialist in the community 
to give the necessary treatment at a stipulated fee, usually less than 
would ordinarily be charged. The correction of these conditions 
is good business on the part of the industry, and better results demand 
that the medical staff take charge or supervise this treatment. 

4. In a large industry many employees will be found with conditions 
which are being neglected because of lack of funds to provide proper 
treatment. Many of these concerns have arrangements with hospitals 
whereby cheaper hospital care can be obtained. Such cases are there- 
fore sent to these Tiospitals and operated free of charge by the com- 
pany surgeon rather than sending them to the city or county hospitals 
for free treatment. 

5. The types of medical cases requiring treatment which predomi- 



MEDICAL TREATMENT OF EMPLOYEES 401 

nate are the minor ailments which develop while at work. The 
employee, after being examined and ruling out a more serious condi- 
tion, can often be relieved by prescribing some medicine and a few 
hours rest in the rest rooms provided for this purpose. Others must 
be sent home. Whenever medicine is prescribed for cases going home 
a statement as to the drug used should be sent with the patient for the 
family physician. 

6. In certain industries there are specific diseases the direct result 
of the occupations, as for example lead poisoning, occupational 
dermatitis and furunculosis. These are treated by the company 
physicians the same as all accident cases, or at least should be. 

The treatment of these six different groups of cases combined with 
proper supervision over the treatment afforded by the family physi- 
cians make up the bulk of the remedial work which the medical staffs 
of most industries carry on. 

COMPLETE MEDICAL TREATMENT 

For many years we have had examples of the medical staffs of 
certain industries rendering all medical care to employees and to their 
families. This practice has chiefly been in vogue in the mining 
and lumbering companies of the west. It is also a common practice 
in northern Michigan. Practically all of these plans involved the 
payment of from $1 to $5 a year, by the employee, into the medical 
fund. This assured him free treatment for e year. It also included 
free treatment for the family with the exception of certain operations 
and obstetrical cases for which a small additional charge was usually 
made. 

This type of practice in many instances was excellent. The best 
qualified surgeons took the positions and developed an efficient staff of 
assistants. Unfortunately in too many places the doctor tried to 
increase his income by cutting down on the number of assistants. 
It was impossible for him to render the most efficient, scientific 
treatment to the great number of people depending on him. A very 
mediocre form of medicine was practised. This lowered the reputa- 
tion of this form of contract work. 

Fortunately some of these concerns have awakened to the value 
of the best preventive measures combined with the best treatment. 
They have provided excellent hospital facilities and have very com- 
petent staffs. In such places the treatment afforded to the employees 
and their families is of the best. The old type of contract practice, 
which is condemned by all, is being eradicated by this new era of 
industrial medicine. 

The Brooklyn Rapid Transit Company affords an example of a 
concern that has adopted all the modern principles of industrial 

26 



402 -INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

medicine and surgery and has extended it to include free medical 
care for its employees. They claim that practically 95 per cent, of their 
people use their medical staff altogether and that time loss on account 
of sickness has been reduced to a large extent. Above all, they assert 
that these measures introduced for the welfare of their working force 
have paid the greatest dividends in increased loyalty on the part of em- 
ployees. As an example of loyalty the men of this concern were 
the only ones who refused to walk out during the street railway strike 
in Greater New York a few years ago. 

TYPES OF CASES CAUSING TIME LOSS 

The diseases which cause loss of time from work, and therefore 
need medical treatment, will vary considerably. In a plant where- 
no health supervision has been conducted many more cases of 
chronic disease will be found. For instance tuberculosis made up 
from 1.5 per cent, to 2 per cent, of the total causes for lost time, 
whereas after several years of careful supervision this disease only 
. accounted for 0.3 per cent, of the causes, in the author's experience. 
The reduction of lost time on account of heart disease after health 
supervision, proper selection of work, and adequate treatment is pro- 
vided for such employees, is a striking example of the benefits of this 
work. 

The minor ailments which cause loss of time are the most 
difficult to control. Nevertheless in these cases improvement in 
sanitary conditions, plenty of recreation for the employees, good water 
supply and the training of employees to drink plenty of water, educat- 
ing them to correct their diet and depend upon food rather than 
cathartics to keep their bowels active, and steps to prevent fatigue, 
have all caused a reduction in loss of time. 

In a working force of twelve thousand, divided approximately 
into five thousand girls and seven thousand men the annual time loss 
on account of sickness was estimated at six days per employee. There 
were fifteen thousand two hundred and forty-four cases of lost time 
from work among girls and six thousand four hundred and twenty 
cases of lost time among the men. 

The ailments which caused this lost time can be classed as minor 
and serious. The minor ailments were often undiagnosed, as the 
employees simply remained at home and on their return gave some in- 
definite symptom or homely diagnosis which they had made them- 
selves. These common, everyday bad feelings which you and I have, 
and for which a doctor is seldom consulted come under this group. 
The attached table is of interest as it shows the diseases in a 
large industry most responsible for time loss. 



MEDICAL TREATMENT OF EMPLOYEES 



403 



TABLE 11. 
DISEASES CAUSING TIME LOSS 

Number of Employees 

Male 7,000 

Female 5,000 



Total . 12,000 



Cases of Lost Time 



Male . . . 
Female . 



6,420 
15,244 



Total 21,664 



Minor conditions 


Female 


Per 
cent. 


Male 


Per 

cent. 


1 Headache 


3778 


24 


1255 


19 00 


2 Dysmenorrhea 


2935 


18 9 






3 Colds 


2251 


14 


1313 


20 40 


4 "Grippe" 


1354 


08 


956 


14 80 


5. Tonsillitis 


974 


06 


883 


13 70 


6. Nausea 


750 


04.8 


203 


03.10 


7 Other stomach conditions 


403 


02 6 


331 


05 00 


8 Nervousness 


355 


02.3 


42 


' 00 60 


9. Neuralgias, myalgias and pains in joints. . 
10 Backache 


188 
153 


01.3 
01 


123 
111 


01.90 
01 80 


11 Stiff neck : 


99 


00 6 


30 


00.40 


12. Eye conditions 


172 


01.2 


56 


00.87 


13. Ear conditions 


102 


00.6 


36 


00.50 


14. Fever 


110 


00.7 


107 


01.80 


15. Diarrhea 


130 


00.8 


74 


01.10 


16. Constipation 


92 


00.6 


41 


00.60 


17. Fainting . .... 


132 


00.8 


13 


00.20 













Serious conditions 


Female 


Per 
cent. 


Male 


Per 
cent. 


18. Appendicitis 


48 


300 


35 


50 


19. Bronchitis 


27 


0.180 


45 


0.60 


20. Heart trouble ... 


8 


050 


2 


03 


21. Kidney disease 


4 


020 


4 


0.06 


22. Pleurisy 


9 


060 


24 


40 


23. Pneumonia ' 


2 


0.010 


12 


0.20 


24. Paralysis . . . '. 


1 


0.007 


1 


0.01 


25. Rheumatism .... 


90 


0.600 


122 


1.74 


26. Anemic and generally run down 


34 


0.200 


4 


0.06 


27. Acute contagious diseases 


32 


0.200 


32 


0.50 


28. Typhoid fever 


1 


0.007 


1 


0.01 


29. Tuberculosis ' 


19 


0.140 


15 


0.23 


30. Miscellaneous 


1281 


8.400 


505 


7.80 













404 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



An industry with its large group of employees forms a great human 
laboratory a veritable physician's paradise. Here he can study ail 
varieties of pathological conditions, every type of preventive measures, 
and the best lines of treatment which will afford the quickest and 
surest results. He also gains an insight into those social and economic 
conditions which are constantly playing a greater part in all medical 
work. 






CHAPTER XXVIII 
WOMEN IN INDUSTRY 

THEIR EMPLOYMENT, SUPERVISION OF THEIR HEALTH, AND 
OTHER PROBLEMS 

The fact that a separate chapter is devoted to the problems related 
to women employees does not indicate that a different standard of 
health supervision must be established for them. All that has been 
written in other chapters relative to industrial hygiene, physical 
examinations, treatment of disease and accidents in fact, the entire 
field of industrial medicine, is applicable to women as well as men 
employees. Their employment in industry, however, presents a few 
problems which must receive special consideration. 

The present world war has focused public attention on. the question 
of woman's work as nothing else has ever done. In the pre-war days 
the women were employed in rather limited fields, every industry 
having certain positions which were recognized by men as rightfully 
belonging to them. Whenever an employer endeavored to place 
women on work carried on by the male employees labor troubles 
usually ensued. A few women were able to overcome these preju- 
dices and enter a broader field of endeavor, but the majority con- 
tinued to work on jobs suitable to their weaker strength and paying 
a wage far below that earned by the men. 

Many labor leaders to-day still contend that it is not necessary to 
extend the scope of woman's work, that the proper mobilization of 
man-power in this country would result in keeping production at a 
maximum. Nevertheless, as our millions of men are being absorbed 
by the army we see women taking up the work of these men and hi 
most instances carrying on with equal, or even greater efficiency. 

England, France, Canada and other nations, have been forced to 
utilize women on occupations heretofore thought of only in connection 
with men. It is only logical to foresee that our country must do the 
same. 

In every nation the slogan "equal pay for equal work" has been 
adopted by the industries, and many of the old injustices toward 
women employees are being corrected. Exploitation of women in 
industry is becoming a thing of the past. This is truly a "War for 
Democracy. " 

In many of our well organized industries, for years previous to the 

405 



406 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

war, the women employees have been enjoying comforts and con- 
veniences, every means for the protection of their health have been 
provided, and a good living wage has been paid to all. But in many 
other concerns, the most deplorable conditions existed and still exist. 
Let us make a comparison. 

The writer once worked in two different factories where great 
numbers of women were employed. One was a shoe factory, the 
other a glass factory. In both these the girls worked in the same rooms 
with the men. No effort was made to supervise the relationship 
between the sexes. Vile stories and obscene jokes were bandied 
back and forth, the foreman often taking the lead in these pastimes. 
Proper toilet facilities were unknown. Privies, one for men and one 
for women, but in close proximity, were in use and were filthy and 
unsanitary. I recall that the pits were so unprotected that a drunken 
man fell into one of these one night and was found dead the next 
morning. 

There were practically no washing facilities. Everybody, girls 
included, carried their lunches and ate them in the working places. 
When a girl became sick at work she usually had to stop for the day 
and go home, often walking a considerable distance. There was a 
cot in the corner where the girls kept their wraps, which could be 
used for resting purposes, but a rest room as we understand it to-day 
was unknown. 

One of these factories operating day and night employed a force 
of girls for the night shift also. The use of suction fans or other means 
of removing the injurious dusts was unheard of. 

Only the poor girls who had to work could have endured such 
conditions. And the wages they received for ten hours' work were far 
below those paid the men. It was such standards as these that caused 
the girl who must work to lose caste. Humane employers who im- 
proved the working places for our girls and protected them against 
those influences which undermined their moral and physical well- 
being were great benefactors to the race. . Some ranks in society 
still retain their early impressions of the girl who must work. 

For men to work is honorable. Work is just as honorable for 
women. And to-day all classes of women, from the poor who must 
work to the rich who work for patriotic reasons, are entering all kinds 
of industrial occupations. New standards are being set and a new 
viewpoint is being obtained by society concerning woman's work. 

Compare with the conditions in the two factories described above 
the conditions in factories in England to-day. We are told that modern 
factories have been built in England to produce many of the essentials 
for war, and that if these factories were joined together they would 
make a building twenty-five miles long and forty feet in width. 



WOMEN IN INDUSTRY 



407 



Women make up a large proportion of their working forces. Partly 
to induce women to work, and partly because they found that such 
things helped production, these factories are equipped with everything 
which will add to the comfort, convenience and health of the employees. 
Men and women work in the closest proximity. But in each depart- 
ment there is an intelligent forelady whose character and personality 
is such that she is a constant stimulus for good. The moral standards 
in these industries are of the highest. Women are honored and re- 
spected just as much, although they must often dress in trousers in 
order to do men's work. 




FIG. 54. Every industrial sanitary measure has been provided in these new working 

homes in England. 



The sanitary conditions of these plants have been perfected to the 
highest degree possible. Every method for the protection of the 
employees, both male and female, against the dangerous poisons found 
in munition work and all other occupational diseases have been 
provided. Every modern washing and toilet facility has been 
installed. Restaurants and canteens are a definite part of the 
organization. 

Comfort rooms where the girls can lie down and rest when neces- 
sary, and where they can go to relax during the noon hour and rest 
periods is now recognized as. one of the most important provisions in 
the working place. Arrangements have been made for suitable homes 
for all employees, and when girls must room, the management has 



408 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



supervised the selection of these rooming places. Many concerns 
have provided dormitories for their girls. 

Suitable recreation for the employees is now a definite part of all 
programs seeking to improve the conditions of the working force. 
The communities have entered into this angle of war work and provide 
all kinds of entertainments for the girls similar to our entertainments 
for the soldier boys. 

The question of hours of labor has been settled in England because 
it was essential to find the best solution of this problem in terms of 
maximum production. That country found the greatest output ob- 




FIQ. 55. A good forelady makes segregation of men and women employees 

unnecessary. 

tained when the standard of eight hour shifts was adopted. This has 
even been divided so that employees work two hours, rest fifteen 
minutes; work two hours, thirty minutes for lunch; work two hours, 
fifteen minutes rest; work one hour and quit. Not only is such a 
standard good for girls but it produces the best results when applied 
to men. 

England was not always thus kindly toward her women employees. 
The same deplorable exploitation of women workers existed there as 
has existed in this country. But the need for greater production 
for war purposes, and the presence of many women who demanded 
better conditions, forced both employers and the government to 
adopt those measures which both Industrial Medicine and Industrial 
Engineering have been urging for years. 



WOMEN IN INDUSTRY 409 

England will never go back to the old conditions. To-day the 
women in America whc axe so gallantly taking their places in the 
industrial army are unconsciously forcing many changes in our working 
conditions. Social and economic improvements are being advanced 
fifty, yes, a hundred years under the stress of war. America will never 
go back to the old conditions. 

Many individuals, committees, organizations, and government 
agencies have been concentrating their studies and efforts on this 
problem of "women in industry" since our country entered the war. 
The reports of all these bodies should be bound and given to every 
employer throughout the land and if he is wise he would read them 
as faithfully as he should read his bible. If he has a keen business 
sense he would learn his lesson. Every physician in inchistrial practice 
should likewise become familiar with these reports if he desires to keep 
up with the rapid advancements which are talcing place these days. 
Two of the most valuable contributions on this subject are, " Women in 
Industry" by Mr. C. E. Knoeffel, which can be obtained from the 
Society of Industrial Engineers; and "War-time Employment of 
Women in the Metal Trades" published by the National Industrial 
Conference Board, 15 Beacon Street, Boston, Massachusetts. 

That the industries of America will meet this problem of employ- 
ment of women as thoroughly as England has done is indicated by the 
following report of a committee on Standards appointed by the 
Standard Practice Executive's Club of Detroit, Michigan, which repre- 
sents forty different concerns : 

" In order to protect the women who may enter industry at our 
solicitation and to provide for them fair working conditions, the Com- 
mittee on Standards of Working Conditions submits the following 
recommendation : 

"1. That the Recruiting Committee investigate the applications 
from married women with children to ascertain if the children are 
properly cared for. Results of investigations to be filed with the 
Central Bureau. 

" 2. That women be given equal pay for equal work. While learn- 
ing they shah 1 be paid the flat day rate paid men for the same work or 
operation. This recommendation has the endorsement of the Detroit 
Division of the Women's Committee of the Council of National 
Defense, as they passed a resolution to this effect on May 14, 1917. 
The committee understands that the Buick Motor Car Company, 
of Flint, Michigan, is at present paying women on this basis. 

"3. Because of the experience of England, where it was found that 
shorter hours resulted in more and better work, we suggest that the 
working day for women be limited to eight hours and that the maxi- 
mum weekly hours be limited to forty-eight. 



410 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

"4. That the following working conditions are essential: 

" (a) Separate entrances to be provided for women if practicable; 
if not, that women be allowed to report for work fifteen minutes later 
than men and leave fifteen minutes earlier. 

" (6) That separate workshops be provided .if possible; if not, that 
there be both a man and woman supervisor stationed in the mixed 
departments. 

" (c) That rest rooms and toilets adjoining workshops be provided 
with a matron in charge. 

" (d) That a sufficient number of drinking fountains be installed 
in each department. 

*' (e) That the period for lunch be at least forty-five minutes. 

" (/) That if possible a restaurant be operated on the premises; 
if not, at least a counter maintained where a box lunch with hot coffee 
and tea and milk can be purchased at cost. 

" (g) That provision be made for rest periods during working hours, 
their frequency and duration depending on the nature of the work. 

" (h) That seats be provided wherever possible to avoid injury to 
women by standing all day at their work. 

" (i) That sickness insurance be provided to care for workers absent 
because of sickness. 

" (j) That workers on monotonous and tedious operations, to avoid 
undue fatigue, be transferred from time to time as seems advisable. 

"(/c) That there shall be provision for first aid attention to all 
workers. 

" (Z) That there be first class supervision of working conditions 
with particular reference to safety, sanitation, ventilation and lighting. 

" (ra) That some person be delegated to act as welfare supervisor 
for the plant, to whom women shall have access and whose duty it 
shall be to have general oversight over welfare conditions. This 
position might be given to some woman already in the employ of the 
company, in addition to her other duties, but if possible a trained 
person should be secured for this work. 

"In setting up these standards the committee feels that its work 
would be useless and ineffective unless a permanent committee was 
appointed by the executives to investigate working conditions in each 
plant employing women to be recruited by the special committee 
organized for the purpose. Such a committee should not only make an 
investigation before placing the women, but should further make periodic 
visits to ascertain if the standards are being maintained according 
to agreement. Since it is almost impossible to set standards for first aid 
and safety provisions, without an intimate knowledge of the size 
and kind of plant and hazard of the work, we deem it advisable that 
this permanent inspection committee treat each plant individually 



WOMEN IN INDUSTRY 411 

adjusting requirements in each case according to the conditions found 
on visitation. 

"It is further believed that a physical examination should be made 
of each applicant." 

Every physician familiar with the occupational hazards to health 
that exist in industries realizes that the methods of prevention of many 
occupational diseases have not yet been perfected. Most of these 
diseases have been studied from their effect on men. With women 
entering these new fields new problems will undoubtedly be presented. 
Lead poisoning is known to be more injurious to women than to men. 
Will not the same be found true of other occupational poisonings? 
Industrial accidents have been more common among the male 
employees but this is due to the more hazardous occupations they 
have been engaged in. With women entering these new jobs the 
accident rate is bound to increase. The fact that they are "green" 
at the work will be an etiological factor in increased injuries. Is 
it not possible that complications following these injuries will be more 
serious and more prevalent? 

These and many other problems will follow the employment of 
women in men's work. While the management and the lay forces 
are preparing to increase the comforts and conveniences and other- 
wise improve working conditions so that women can be employed, 
the. medical staffs of these industries must become more rigid in their 
efforts to supervise the health of these workers. The doctor must 
carefully study the effect of every new occupation upon women work- 
ers and determine as soon as possible what jobs they are fitted for 
and what jobs they must be absolutely barred from. 

The future of the race depends upon these women. No war emer- 
gency must allow the wastage of our woman-power else defeat will 
ultimately be ours. A new responsibility rests upon the physician 
in industry because of the increased activities of the women workers. 

Women have always been employed in many occupations where 
medical supervision was indicated but where it did not exist. The 
small employer has used his women on work entirely too arduous for 
them. The heavy farm work which many women used to perform has 
been responsible for thousands of premature deaths. What workers 
needed more careful supervision, or provisions for their comfort and 
welfare, than the hard working scrub women slaving every night, in 
wet and filth, in our large office buildings in the cities? Very little 
attention has been paid to their home conditions, to the hours of labor 
which they must work. Every medical dispensary has known this 
prematurely old woman, broken in health, but very few doctors have 
sought the source of her trouble in her occupation. 

So, during this first year of war, we have witnessed women enter- 



412 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



ing many positions where medical supervision is unknown. Con- 
ductors on street cars, elevator operators with long, closely confined 
hours, janitor work, railway section hands, loading of junk, coal, coke 
and other material on flat cars, piling of lumber, firing stationary 
boilers, working in machine shops, and shoe stores, in cellar and lofts, 
these are some of the new occupations which these pioneer women 
workers in men's jobs have entered. 




FIQ. 56. Women have replaced 



men in many 
factories. 



occupations in 



munition 



Can they stand the work; what are its hazards for them; what 
the factor of fatigue and other conditions which will predispose to 
sickness? How are we to answer these problems without the most 
careful medical supervision? 

The time has arrived when our federal government must demand 
the most thorough supervision of the health of all workers men and 
women. After one year of war the nation has learned that this great 
industrial army is just as essential to the winning of the war as our 
military army. The men and women in this second line of defense 
must be medically supervised, furnished with the adequate medical 







WOMEN IN INDUSTRY 413 

and .surgical care when necessary, and otherwise conserved the same 
as the first line of defense. 

In those industries where medical departments are maintained they 
should not be disrupted by the demand for physicians in the army. 
But such industrial clinics should be extended and made a center for 
medical supervision of all workers in that neighborhood. 

For those industries where no medical supervision has been in vogue 
and for the employees in small concerns, and on the isolated jobs, 
there must be established industrial clinics in every community where 
employees must be forced to report for proper supervision. Other 
physicians must be placed in the field as inspectors to supervise the 
working conditions. All the recognized essential features of industrial 
medicine must be summoned for the protection of this industrial army, 
and especially for the protection cf the women who are braving these 
unknown dangers to help win the war. 

A federal plan of public health service is the only solution of these 
and the other health problems confronting our civil population to-day. 
With the medical forces of the nation so depleted by the demands of 
the army provisions must be made to utilize to the greatest advantage 
the remaining civilian physicians. The prevention of disease and 
accidents among the industrial employees of the country and their 
families will reduce the amount of curative medicine which must be 
practised. The medical forces of the country must be mobilized there- 
fore and a certain percentage of the physicians must be ordered to duty 
in the industrial army. Prevention must become the slogan of the 
medical profession. 

CHOOSING OCCUPATIONS FOR WOMEN 

Already women workers have upset our preconceived ideas of what 
jobs they are capable of holding. Throwing off the hampering in- 
fluences of sex and inexperience woman has stepped forth into the 
fields of work hitherto belonging only to the realm of man. From 
every source testimony is coming that she is making good. But this 
new freedom must be controlled. She must not be allowed to enter 
work which in time will destroy her or mean a premature breakdown. 

Therefore every woman worker should receive a careful physical 
examination and the occupation should then be chosen according 
to her physical qualifications. In every case the question of whether 
she is physically and mentally fit to do the work and whether the 
occupation will be unduly hazardous for her must be answered. 

Some have suggested that a survey should at once be made of ail 
positions available for women and then a board should decide which 
of these jobs she could enter and from which she must be debarred. 
This board might lay down some general principles on this subject 



414 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

but the real selection of proper occupations can only be made by con- 
sidering each individual case as she presents herself. Some women 
will be found perfectly able to enter occupations requiring heavy 
lifting or constant standing, while others must be assigned to seden- 
tary work only. 

THE PHYSICAL EXAMINATION 

How thoroughly should this examination be made? There is no 
question but that women should be examined from head to foot, the 
same as men are examined; a complete analysis cannot be made in 
any other way. But to do this women physicians must be employed 
and the number of these is not sufficient to meet the demand. 

One large industry employed two women physicians and subjected 
every girl employee to a complete examination. For three years 
they kept careful records of these examinations. The number of 
pathological conditions discovered by this thorough system were only 
slightly more than those found by the partial examinations in other 
concerns. They have since discarded the method as it was very dis- 
tasteful to their girl employees. 

The conditions usually found in healthy males by examining below 
the waist are hernia; venereal disease; hydrocele, varicocele and 
undescended testicle; varicosities, deformities of the extremities; 
flat-feet and other foot conditions. Remember most employees ex- 
amined are apparently healthy and the examination is not made for 
the purpose of discovering some acute disease. 

The proportion of these conditions found by examining women 
below the waist are small compared with men. Hernia is rare in 
women even the femoral type which is the commonest form found 
in this sex. 

Dr. Schereschewsky states that he found one hernia in five hun- 
dred examinations of female garment workers. In two thousand 
examinations of girl employees, where the history of the case indicated 
a more thorough examination, the author found three femoral and 
one inguinal hernia. In five hundred consecutive examinations in 
a gynecological dispensary the author found only five femoral or in- 
guinal hernias whereas umbilical and ventral hernia were common. 
These were chiefly found in older women who had borne children. 
Therefore the need of examining female employees for hernia is not 
sufficient to warrant subjecting them to the naked examination. 

Questioning as to whether they have a lump or swelling in the 
groin will usually be answered in the affirmative by a woman em- 
ployee if a hernia does exist. 

Venereal disease is often hard to detect in women. I have been 
told by the physician in charge of the work in the concern referred 






WOMEN IN INDUSTRY 415 

above that the percentage of venereal cases found by their complete 
examinations were very few. In our clinic we have discovered cases 
}f syphilis among the girl employees but this was done by the detection 
of mucous patches in the throat or the rash on the body. 

Varicose veins are common among older women or among the 
xarried women who apply for work. These do not object to the 
)hysician examining their extremities. But the average girl employee 
las been protected from the type of occupations which have made 
varicosities more prevalent among the male workers. 

Flat-feet and other foot deformities can often be detected by the 
;ait of the employee. As girls have been employed on sedentary 
scupations, sitting most of the time, it has not been so important 

examine their feet. But in our clinic questions have been asked 
mcerning foot troubles and when indicated they have been examined. 

Because of the rarity of conditions found below the waist line, 
ifluencing woman's fitness for work; most physicians in industry 
we limited their examinations to the head, neck and chest coupled 
rith a careful history in each case which develops the need for a more 
>mplete examination in certain cases. 

This partial examination can be made by a male physician, always, 
lowever, in the presence of a nurse. In order to make sure that a 
lurse was always present and to safeguard the physician in case some 
employee raised a disagreeable question, Dr. A. M. Harvey initiated 
the plan of having the nurse initial every examination record in the 
presence of the woman just examined. 

For years the author had no woman physician on his staff in a 
plant where approximately 5000 girls were employed and were fre- 
quently examined. There was seldom an objection raised to one of 
the male physicians examining a girl. All abdominal examinations 
were made by either the chief of staff or his first assistant. Girls 
needing this more thorough examination were referred to the chief 
nurse who explained how and why it was made and then prepared the 
girl. She covered the girl's body with a sheet and the doctor was then 
called into the room. He was very careful not to unduly expose the 
girl, examining by moving the sheet slightly to one side. No girl 
was ever unnecessarily embarrassed and she usually explained to her 
friends how considerate the doctor had been. 

Vaginal examinations were never made except when the history 
or symptoms indicated the need. In married women these were done 
as described for abdominal examinations. In the case of single girls 
they were told by the chief nurse of the need and were asked 
to bring their mother next day, or a note giving her consent, when 
the chief surgeon would make the regional examination. Usually if 
a girl had never been examined vaginally she reported with her mother 



416 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

or a close friend to the hospital in the city where the surgeon made 
the examination under a light gas anesthetic. This facilitated the 
examination and relieved the girl of the embarrassment. 

New physicians, fresh from hospital or dispensary practices, enter- 
ing this field for the first time will often make the mistake of handling 
these cases as so much material for study. They will order a girl to 
submit to a regional examination as though she was a dispensary 
patient (a practice which should likewise be condemned). They are 
even careless about unduly exposing her. 

Such methods will always place the doctor in a wrong light before 
these employees and will soon destroy the usefulness of the doctor's 
office. In fact such methods should not be tolerated in a dispensary. 
My first advice to every new assistant is, " handle every case as though 
a hundred dollar fee was at stake." 

When a lady physician was finally employed on my staff she had 
considerable difficulty in gaining the girls' confidence. Often they 
insisted on one of the male physicians making the examination. 
However, this doctor because of her skill and her wonderful person- 
ality won a place for herself in the hearts of all the girls, which makes 
her services invaluable now. Whenever a competent, diplomatic 
woman physician can be employed for the examination of girl em- 
ployees the same should be done. The professional standards should 
never be lowered, however, just to employ a woman doctor and certainly 
never in the case of your male physician. Men or women who have 
not sufficient training to make a good income at the practice of 
medicine should never be employed in industry just because they can 
be obtained at a cheap salary. 

The routine examination of girl employees should be done as 
follows: 

1. Secure careful history by the nurse. Only the positive points 
need be recorded. 

2. Nurse takes temperature, pulse, weight and height and tests 
the vision by Snellen method. Records these findings on the card. 

3. Girl is then taken to lavatory (best if next to dressing room) 
and a specimen of urine is obtained. This is placed in a compartment 
basket with other specimens, duly marked, and carried to the labora- 
tory for analysis. 

4. Girl removes waist and under vest and is covered with a cape 
made from a sheet. 

5. She then goes into the adjoining room, where the doctor and 
nurse remain constantly, and is examined. As there is no undue 
exposure of these girls two can be waiting while the doctor is examin- 
ing one; a sheet suspended between the waiting girls and the one 
being examined will add to the privacy. 



WOMEN IN INDUSTRY 



417 



The cape worn by these girls (see Fig. 57) has a large neck opening 
and can be pulled down over either breast for the purposes of examina- 
tion, the other breast remaining covered. Either side of the back 
can be similarly examined. The sides of the chest can be examined 
through the side openings of the cape. This permits of examining 
the entire chest as far as the waist line without exposing any large 
area at one time. The nurse who is present moves the cape for the 
doctor. 

This examination consists of (a) reading nurse's findings on the his- 
tory card and also urinalysis; (&) examining eyes, nose, teeth, tonsils 

<-2,FT.-9>4- IN. => 



0) 
I 

\- 

u. 

CO 

I 



FRONT 




FIG. 57. Illustrating type of cape used to cover chest of girls during physical 

examination. 

and pharynx; (c) palpating glands of neck and thyroid; (d) examining 
heart by auscultation (palpation, percussion and blood-pressure are only 
done when some indication is found) ; (e) percussing lungs and then ex- 
amining by auscultation; (/) recording all findings on history card. 

While examining the lungs and heart both breasts can be inspected 
for suspicious swellings and the girl questioned about these. When 
indicated the breasts should be thoroughly palpated usually through 
the thin cape. While the nurse is standing over the girl she can 
carefully inspect the hair and if signs of pediculosis are present 

27 



418 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

she will then thoroughly examine the employee. Many cases of 
pediculosis have been discovered by this method. 

The doctor asks questions regarding abdominal and extremity 
conditions. If in the examination, history or the urinalysis show 
the need of a more complete examination she is referred to the chief 
nurse. In questionable cases the chief of staff is called into the 
examining room at once for consultation. 

Many girls have an anemic appearance and these should always be 
referred to the laboratory for a blood count. Those with bad teeth 
are referred to the dentist. Defective vision cases are sent to the eye 
specialist and proper glasses fitted or other corrections made. 










Fia. 58. Examining a girl applicant for work. Note how cape covers the chest, 
also that nurse is present. 

In the routine examination room all that is needed is a stool for 
the doctor, a piano stool for the girl being examined (this facilitates 
her turning around quickly), a chair for the nurse, and a table by 
the side of the doctor for his instruments, and for writing purposes. 
All necessary appliances should be arranged close at hand for the 
doctor, namely his stethoscope, wooden tongue depressors, which are 
used only once, the nasal speculum and the blood-pressure outfit. 

Many of these girls are found with conditions which need careful 
study, or further examination. They are told to report for re-exami- 
nations and the time and type of examination needed is recorded on 
their cards. The record room keeps a tickler system on all such 
cases and makes sure that they report. This same plan is used for 
the men. 

When drugs are necessary to relieve symptoms or conditions a note 
to this effect is made on the history cards and the nurse sees that 
these girls are sent to the drug room where a nurse gives the medi- 
cine needed. Prescribing of drugs has been reduced to a minimum. 




WOMEN IN INDUSTRY 419 

WHICH GIRL EMPLOYEES ARE EXAMINED? 

All girl applicants for work should be examined for the same 
reasons set forth in the chapter on examination of applicants for 
work, namely, proper physical selection for the work and protection 
of old force from contagious diseases. The type of work the employ- 
ment department intends to employ the girl on should always be 
shown on her history card so that the doctor can size up her physical 
qualifications with this work in mind. Girls who later are to be trans- 
ferred to an altogether different occupation should be re-examined. 

Girls taken sick while at work should come to the doctor's office 
for a pass home. Their case should then be carefully analyzed and 
when indicated an examination should be made. Likewise, many 
girls will report to the office sick who can be later returned to work by 
a few hours rest in the rest room. Many of these must be examined. 

On returning to work after an illness employees must report to the 
office for a pass back to work. Those whose history indicates the 
need should be examined. In a large industry this plan may cause 
much lost time from work due to the congestion in the doctor's office 
from so many reporting, and the long distance between the office and 
some departments. To obviate this loss a number of substations 
have been provided in various parts of the plant with a nurse in charge. 

The employees, especially the girls, can report to these for their 
passes. Most of the girls have been absent one or two days on account 
of some minor ailment and these can be sent direct to work by the 
nurse. Others the nurse will send to the doctor's office for examination 
before the pass is issued. 

All women employed in fatiguing occupations or hazardous work 
from the standpoint of occupational poisonings, should be periodic- 
ally examined. This is one of the most important features of proper 
-health supervision. 

REST ROOMS 

Wherever women are employed clean, airy rest rooms removed from 
excessive noises should be provided. They should be furnished 
with single beds, instead of hard cots, with clean pillow and sheets 
and warm blankets. A nurse or some qualified matron should always 
be in charge. Screens should separate the beds so as to furnish 
privacy to each girl. Talking and other noises should be prohibited. 
The room should be kept cool and well ventilated. Its very appearance 
should be restful. 

Jn the author's early experience the rest room was a dark back 
room of the doctor's office. Hard cots, provided only with a blanket 
under and over the girl, afforded the means for rest. When a sick 
girl reported to the office and the nurse suggested that she lie down in 



420 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



the rest room instead of going home she refused oftener than accepted 
the invitation. It was only an emergency room used by the girls 
when too sick to refuse. 

Later this concern provided a large, airy room furnished with beds 
as described above. The girls with temporary sickness would report 
to the office and were always glad to go to the rest room, remove only 
their shoes, or perhaps loosen their skirts and corsets and crawl in 
between the clean sheets and under the warm blankets. The nurse 
would then bring them a hot water bottle and often a hot drink. Many 
were given a glass of malted milk or a cup of hot tea. After an hour 
or so these girls would feel better and would return to work (Fig. 59). 







FIG. 59. Rest room for women employees. Nurse always in charge. 
Doctor's Office, Sears, Roebuck & Co.) 



(From 



In the old days girls who had fainted, had severe cramps with their 
periods, had headaches, nausea, diarrhea, pain in their side, or other 
minor ailment, usually went home losing the greater portion of the 
day and often longer because the exertion of going home had made the 
condition worse. With this new rest room these girls were restored 
to work in a short time, and often more serious conditions were aborted. 

No greater efficiency measure can be installed by a concern than a 
properly located, adequately equipped rest room. 

SITTING POSITIONS AND REST PERIODS 

Most state laws now require that women shall be furnished seats 
while at work. None of these laws seemed to take into account the 
deleterious effect of this constant sitting. Our good law makers 
seemed to think they had met their obligations toward those of the 
gentler sex, who must work, by gallantly providing them seats. 

Constant standing is undoubtedly fatiguing to most women workers, 



WOMEN IN INDUSTRY 421 

but of the two evils constant sitting is the worse. The congestion 
of the pelvic organs by this practice, and the tendency toward con- 
stipation because of lack of exercise, causes many pathological con- 
ditions to develop in the generative organs of women. The congestion 
and constipation also tend to develop hemorrhoids. Backaches, 
pains in the legs and many ill-feelings can be traced to constant sitting. 

The ideal work for woman will enable her to stand part time and 
sit part time. If she can move about while at work it is even better. 
In the departments where the .work permits this I have found at 
least 50 per cent, less absenteeism on account of dysmenorrhea than 
in those departments where the girls sat constantly at their work. 
Fainting, nervousness and signs of fatigue were also less. 

Even before state laws demanded it, many occupations for girls 
necessitated constant sitting. For these, and in fact for all workers, 
rest periods should be provided. Ten or fifteen minutes in the middle 
of the morning, and the same time in the middle of the afternoon 
furnish these workers the opportunity to walk about, relax from the 
tension of work, do their visiting and gossiping and get rid of the 
stored up products of fatigue. 

The windows of the working room should be opened up during such 
a period, and marching, calisthenics, games and other forms of exercise 
indulged in. Music at these periods from a victrola will stimulate 
dancing, and that in itself is restful. The forelady should devise means 
to make these rest periods of the greatest benefit to the girls. 

CLOTHING 

The new occupations women are entering are having a marked 
influence on their manner of dress. Overalls and trousers are common 
wearing apparel for many women workers to-day. Common sense, 
thick soled low heeled shoes are necessary in many of these positions. 
If this influence will extend to her sisters in the ordinary occupations 
of woman great benefits and increased efficiency will result. 

The constant sitting regulations were largely necessary because 
of the illogical shoes girls wear when working. It is obvious that the 
high Cuban or French heel, with the thin turned sole, or the low 
pumps, were never made to work in, especially if the work require 
standing. 

If women can be persuaded to wear shoes modelled after those 
recommended for soldiers they will develop strong feet and will be 
able to qualify for many more positions than have been opened to them 
in industry in the past. 

The high heeled shoe, loose skirts, flowing sleeves and other 
peculiarities of dress are hazardous in occupations about machinery, 
tending to increase the accident rate. 



422 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

In departments where men and girls work together great difficulties 
in ventilation are presented during the winter months, because of the 
flimsy waists worn by girls. They are easily chilled when a window 
is opened and demand more heat than is wholesome in the departments. 

One of the best services the nurses or the woman advisor or welfare 
worker can render to a concern is to correct these faulty dress habits 
among the girl employees. 

FOOD 

Every employee should get out of the working room for the lunch 
hour, during which time it should be thoroughly aired out. This is 
especially applicable where girls in sedentary occupations are employed. 

A cafeteria or restaurant should be provided where warm, whole- 
some food can be obtained. If the number of employees does not 
warrant this then some suitable place for the eating of lunches should 
be provided. Here hot tea or coffee or soup should be sold at a 
small price. 

DRINKING AND TOILET FACILITIES 

Every recommendation for improving the hygienic conditions of 
the working place made in other chapters should be adopted wherever 
girls are employed. Special mention is made here of the drinking 
and toilet facilities because there is a tendency to neglect their 
importance. 

When employees are engaged on piece work, and especially in the 
case of girls, one often finds that insufficient water is consumed and the 
requirements of nature are neglected. The girls will simply not lose 
the money involved by taking time off for these things. 

The only solution for this is that the employer will give ample time, 
without loss to the employee, to attend to these essentials. Bubbling 
fountains should be located near the working places and every 
employee should be thoroughly educated in the importance of water 
drinking. No better remedy is at hand for the prevention of fatigue 
than frequent flushings of the body organs by water. 

For every hundred girl employees there should be provided close 
at hand at least five toilets. The toilet rooms should be kept clean 
and well ventilated. Washing facilities should be in the room, or 
an adjoining room. Receptacles for refuse are necessary. Means 
for obtaining sanitary napkins should always be present in these 
rooms. 

MINOR DISEASES COMMON TO WOMEN EMPLOYEES 

From an analysis of 15,244 cases of absence on account of sickness 
(see Chapter XXVII) the author found that headaches caused 24 per 






WOMEN IN INDUSTRY 423 

cent, of the absenteeism. Headaches are more common among girls 
than men and cause a great loss to every concern employing girls. 
The plant doctor should make a careful study of every case to ascertain 
the cause. The condition is usually indicative of some other 
trouble, the correction of which will stop this drain on efficiency. 

Constipation is present in many cases and the cessation of head- 
aches on curing this condition is a common result. Diseased tonsils, 
defective teeth, and other foci of infection about the nose and throat, 
as well as defective vision, are frequently the source of headaches- 
These should be carefully examined, the teeth even being re-rayed 
and any infected foci removed. Glasses should be provided whenever 
needed. The author has operated free of charge over one hundred 
cases of infected tonsils in order to relieve employees of headaches 
and thus improve their value to the concern. Over a thousand cases 
of defective teeth have been corrected for the same purpose and has 
resulted in at least 50 per cent, of the cases being relieved. 

Fatigue poisoning, faulty diet especially at the lunch hour, insuf- 
ficient water drinking, night work at home and many other conditions 
either in their work, in their living conditions or hi their bodies, have 
been found as the cause of headaches. The physician will find that 
in a large percentage of the cases he can run the cause to earth by 
diligently studying all possible sources. The value of this work to 
the employer cannot be estimated, but must result in great financial 
saving in labor turn-over and great gains in output. 

Dysmenorrhea came second in the causes for absences, 18.9 per 
cent. This condition as a cause for reducing efficiency and making 
irregular attendance at work has not received sufficient attention 
from the medical profession. The subject is dealt with hi detail 
further on in this chapter. 

Rest periods, with relief from constant sitting, the urging of plenty 
of outdoor exercise, the relieving of constipation by proper diet, and a 
suitable rest room for a few hours rest when the period starts, have all 
resulted in a decrease in this cause of absence. Here again the doctor's 
ingenuity will be tested in finding the cause of the trouble. 

Colds ranked third, or 14 per cent., in the causes of absence. This 
condition was 20.4 per cent, of the causes among men. It is a very 
difficult condition to control and is undoubtedly infectious. As- 
sociated with it are mild forms of tonsillitis and other respiratory 
infections. It is much better to send employees with colds home 
than to leave them in the department to spread the disease. But 
employees with mild "colds" will not report to the doctor's office 
remaining in the department as sources of infection to others. 

Educational propaganda on the infectious nature of "colds," 
"grippe," and tonsillitis will help reduce this source of absenteeism. 



424 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

The following "Don'ts" should be spread by letters, pamphlets, bulletin 
boards and other means throughout the working force: 

1. Colds, grippe, tonsillitis and often causes of coughs are infectious 
and you can spread these to your fellow workers. 

2. Don't continue to work when you have these but report to 
the doctor at once. 

3. Don't talk, sneeze, or cough into another person's face especially 
when you have a cold. 

4. Don't jerk your handkerchief from your pocket and carelessly 
shake it before or after using. 

5. Don't sneeze or cough without covering your mouth with a 
handkerchief. 

6. Don't spit on the floor. 

7. Don't use a common towel, drinking cup, utensils or anything 
that might be the means of spreading your cold to others. 

8. Don't put pencils, pens, envelopes or like things in your mouth. 
If you haven't a cold maybe the other fellow had. 

9. Don't fail to report to the doctor early. Colds can often be 
stopped by proper early treatment. 

All employees reporting to the office on account of these respiratory 
conditions must be scrutinized thoroughly to discover if he has this 
contagious type. The temperature will often be 99 6 to 100 while 
the employee insists "outside of a bad cold I am well and able to 
work. " Those with temperature should always be sent home. The 
throat which is inflamed, often covered with very small pearly papules, 
is suggestive of this so-called grippe. A severe headache and aching 
all over associated with a slight sore throat or a "cold" is sufficient 
evidence to warrant sending the employee home to protect the old 
force. 

Often painting the nose and throat with a 10 per cent, solution 
of argyrol or using an alkaline spray and repeating it several times 
during the day, with hot drinks, combined with a few hours rest in 
the rest room, the bed being isolated and thoroughly cleaned after- 
ward, will serve to abort these "colds." When an employee, who is 
hardly sick enough to call his or her doctor, is sent home instructions 
such as the following should be given: 

1. Go home and rest. 

2. Take a hot bath and a hot lemonade. 

3. Take a dose of salts or castor oil. 

4. Go to bed and cover up warmly. 

5. Gargle a solution of one teaspoonful of baking soda (Soda 
Bicarbonate) to a glass of water every two hours. 

6. Drink plenty of water; also drink a hot lemonade every 2 hours 
containing the following: 



WOMEN IN INDUSTEY 425 

Baking soda 1 oz. 

Cream of tartar 1 teaspoonful 

Sugar K oz. 

Lemon juice 1 oz. 

Hot water 1 pint 

7. If the cold has disappeared after twenty-four hours you can 
report to the doctor's office otherwise you should summon your 
family physician. 

Many a serious illness with prolonged disability has been aborted 
by these methods. The plant physician should ever be on his guard 
against these epidemics of "colds" or so-called "grippe" which have 
frequently disrupted the working forces in many industries. 

Grippe and tonsillitis made up 8 per cent, and 6 per cent, of the 
causes for disability among the girls and 14.8 per cent, and 13.7 per 
cent, of the causes among the men. Thus "colds" and these two 
conditions rank higher in the causes for absence than any other 
minor ailments. 

Stomach trouble, nausea and cramps, and pain in the side cause 
considerable of the lost time from work. Girls will get up in the 
morning and because they "don't feel like it" or because they are 
late will rush off to work without eating. About the middle of the 
morning they become weak, sick at their stomach and are forced to 
report to the doctor's office. Many of these can be relieved and sent 
back to work. Often a little food or a glass of. malted milk is the 
best treatment you can render. 

These stomach conditions, fainting, and nervousness are the com- 
monest manifestations of fatigue. When a girl reports three or four 
times with these conditions a careful investigation of her working 
conditions will usually reveal the cause. 

Constipation. Constipation is one of the commonest complaints 
among girl employees and undoubtedly plays a very important part 
in the minor illnesses which cause short periods of lost time from 
work. In over a thousand consecutive records of working girls, ap- 
proximately 33 per cent, give a history of constipation and at least 
20 per cent, of these were more or less habitually constipated. 

The cathartic habit among girls is more extensive than would 
generally be believed. This is especially true among the foreign 
element and the less educated, and is undoubtedly stimulated by the 
extensive advertisements of various kinds of laxatives in foreign and 
cheaper newspapers. 

Girl employees are more prone to use the doctor's office than are 
the men and one of the most frequent causes for their visits is con- 
stipation. The easiest way for the doctor to handle these cases is 
to give them a Seidlitz powder or a pill but such a method will only 



426 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

serve to increase the trouble. For several years I have met this prob- 
lem by giving every employee who complains of constipation, a printed 
diet sheet containing anticonstipation foods which could readily be 
purchased at the restaurant, could be carried in the lunch basket, 
and which could be sei'ved at home. In addition each case was given 
a prescription for a fmit mixture as follows: 

Figs Yt lb. 

Dates Y lb. 

Seedless raisins y lb. 

Cooked prunes }/ lb. 

Senna leaves ^ oz. 

Grind through a meat chopper or chop up finely, mold into a 
loaf and keep in a cool place. Take one or two teaspoonfuls 
every night. 

In one department employing twenty girls, I found that 70 per 
cent, of these suffered from constipation and approximately 50 per cent, 
had dysmenorrhea. Efforts to overcome these two conditions were 
concentrated on this group. The forelady secured a table in a res- 
taurant where they could all eat together and insisted on the mana- 
ger of the restaurant serving the girls with at least two of the articles 
mentioned in the constipation diet list. She also saw that the girls 
made up the fruit mixture and used it. In addition, they were 
stimulated to take plenty of exercise outside of working hours. With- 
in one month the constipation was completely overcome in every case, 
and within three months the ten girls who had been accustomed to 
report to the rest room for their sick time or to remain away from 
their work for a day, ceased this practice. 

Proper diet, sufficient exercise and considerable educational 
propaganda against the habit of taking cathartics will decrease 
the amount of constipation among all employees to a marked extent. 
Such efforts are of the greatest economic value to the industry. 

Dysmenorrhea. Among concerns employing great numbers of 
girls, this condition of painful menstruation causes an incalculable 
loss of tune from work and decreased efficiency before and after as 
well as during the periods. 

The causes of this condition are many. A small percentage are 
due to anatomical displacements or some pathological change in the 
generative organs. The majority of the cases, however, are traceable 
to other conditions more or less remote from the pelvis. Of these, con- 
stipation, and the conditions predisposing to this, such as improper 
food, lack of exercise, etc., is the commonest cause. A few years ago, 
many state legislatures endeavored to improve health conditions 
among working girls by enacting laws making it necessary for them to 
sit while at work. In my opinion constant sitting during the long 



WOMEN IN INDUSTRY 427 

working hours is as bad, if not worse, than constant standing. This 
sitting posture causes more or less congestion of the pelvic organs 
which is increased by constipation so often associated with constant 
sitting. If girls could be persuaded to dress properly and then could 
be gradually trained to standing and walking for several hours, much 
healthier employment could be found for them than the sedentary 
occupations to which they are now condemned, chiefly by legislature. 
Under the existing conditions, occupations which allow part time 
sitting and part time standing, or if this is impossible, frequent rest 
periods which will allow the girls to stand and move about, will be 
found of the greatest benefit in overcoming dysmenorrhea. 

The next commonest cause for this condition can be found in an 
unstable, nervous mechanism. A large percentage of the girls who 
reported to the doctor's office because of painful menstrual periods 
also reported at other times because of various nervous manifestations, 
such as fainting, hysteria, " nervousness " and many neurasthenic 
symptoms. I have submitted hundreds of these girls to thorough 
physical examinations (not including vaginal) and many of these 
have shown the signs of neurocirculatory asthenia, the long narrow 
chest with the acute intercostal angle (Stiller type), movable or 
even floating kidneys especially of the right side, and exaggerated 
abdominal reflexes. These cases are so common that the nurse who 
was present at the time of examinations voluntarily remarked about 
the similarity of the findings. Many girls suffer from neurasthenic 
symptoms during their periods which are based upon the teaching 
or on the lack of teaching of the mother. Instead of being told of this 
normal condition in their sex, they are suddenly frightened to death by 
its appearance. They are then told to keep quiet, avoid excitement, 
never bathe and similar instructions all of which stimulates fear of 
consequences and tends to develop the neurasthenic state at each 
subsequent period. It is imperative that our girls be taught that this 
is a normal condition and should not be regarded as a "sick time." 

I have submitted girls to vaginal and rectal examinations, usually 
under gas anesthesia, whose dysmenorrhea could not be accounted 
for by the above conditions or cured by the correction of the same. 
Only about 10 per cent, of these oases showed definite pathologic 
Changes which could account for the dysmenorrhea. Of these, an 
acute retroflexion of the uterus was the commonest finding, marked 
retroversion being the next commonest condition. In many of these 
cases the rectum was found impacted with fecal matter even when 
constipation was not complained of. Care of the bowels and proper 
exercises, such as assuming the knee chest position for several minutes, 
three times a day, relieved many of these while in a few an opera- 
tion was necessary. The operative cases gave uniformly good results 



428 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

chiefly because such radical treatment was not instituted until all 
other sources of the trouble had been eliminated except, perhaps, 
some due to neurasthenia. 

The number of girls suffering from dysmenorrhea in the working 
force can be greatly reduced by systematic efforts directed toward this 
end by the medical staff. Here the nurse and intelligent foreladies 
can be of greatest assistance, in fact they must often take the lead in 
directing the routine measures suggested by the doctor. The first 
essential is to decrease the number of cases of constipation to a 
minimum. Directions for this are given above. Next, every in- 
dustry employing girls should provide the means for healthful recrea- 
tion including games which afford plenty of outdoor exercise. Lectures 
will be found of great value, but better than this is a careful study of 
each case of dysmenorrhea followed by individual instructions con- 
cerning the methods of overcoming it. The nurses can give these 
instructions by many intimate talks with the girls. Hot drinks, 
especially those containing certain food values, combined with a short 
rest in the rest room, will enable many to return shortly to work 
whereas medicine given to relieve the pain only tends to create a 
habit. 

This short resume* concerning this, one of the most important 
problems in industry, is given with a view of stimulating more con- 
certed action on the part of both physicians and nurses in industry 
in order to overcome a condition which has hitherto been tolerated. 
In correcting dysmenorrhea, many of the faulty conditions surrounding 
women in industry will likewise be corrected. 






CHAPTER XXIX 
THE TUBERCULOUS EMPLOYEE 

Tuberculosis has been a greater enemy of the human race than 
almost any other disease. Its devastation has surpassed the wanton 
destruction of savages. 

The pulmonary type is the commonest form of tuberculosis, but 
it also involves glands, bones and joints, the serous linings of cavities, 
as the pleura, peritoneum, and meninges, and attacks other organs 
of the body as the kidney or the testicle. 

In dealing with the problem of the tuberculous employee the 
pulmonary type only will be considered, but the principles herein 
set forth are applicable to practically all forms of this disease. 

Tuberculosis is not a disease of industrial life alone. It existed 
even more extensively among the American Indians and other 
aborigines, where our modern industrial conditions were unknown. 
The more favored in life, from the standpoint of wealth and social 
position, have succumbed to its ravages. Among the agricultural 
class, where outdoor life and abundance of food prevail, the disease 
has been very common. But unquestionably it has caused the 
greatest destruction among the poor working classes in our industrial 
centers. 

In all nations as the tendency to concentrate in certain communities 
increased, and as small shops grew into factories, and these into great 
congested industries, the working people were more and more crowded 
together. Small homes were replaced with flats and these in turn 
with large tenement buildings. Not only were the working places 
overcrowded and unhygienic, but the families of these workers were 
forced to live in congested quarters, ill-ventilated, unclean and in- 
sanitary to the extreme. 

Tuberculosis has reached its highest morbidity and mortality rate 
among these poor working classes. They become centers of infection 
and spread the disease to all other walks of life, even reaching the 
homes of the landlords who are responsible for such community 
conditions. 

This disease has become so prevalent that autopsy statistics show 
that from 70 per cent, to 85 per cent, of all people have at some time 
during their life been infected. Healed or inactive areas of the disease 
have been found in a large percentage of those dying from some other 

429 



430 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



cause. It is hard to explain why more do not succumb to tuber- 
culosis but undoubtedly the fact that our working and living condi- 
tions do not tend to lower our resistance is the saving factor for many. 

Some of our modern tuberculosis specialists contend that this 
disease is not infectious to adults. They argue that the focus of 
infection is contracted during childhood and in later life some under- 
mining condition so lowers the resistance as to cause the disease to 
light up. These teachers have caused some to doubt if it is necessary 
to protect the working forces from the tuberculous employee in 
their midst. They even argue that the husband sleeping with the 
tuberculous wife cannot contract the disease from her. There is 
abundance of proof of this infection of children but this fact does not 
refute the arguments that overcrowding, unsanitary living and work- 
ing conditions and even certain occupations are equally responsible 
for the spread of tuberculosis. 

Therefore while tuberculosis may be classed as an industrial disease 
yet many conditions in industry have been responsible for maintaining 
and spreading it. Granting that the infection is one of childhood yet 
certain occupations and certain insanitary industrial conditions are 
responsible for the lowered resistance and the lighting up of the in- 
fection. Even if the presence of the tuberculous employee is not 
dangerous to his fellows yet these same working conditions can in- 
crease the activity and dangers of the disease for him and therefore 
this fact makes it imperative to remove him from the working place 
until he has recovered. 

The irrefutable proof of these statements exists in the fact that in 
those industries where an active fight against this disease has been 
made the tuberculosis rate has rapidly decreased. With improved 
living conditions and plant sanitation, even though not directed espe- 
cially at the prevention of tuberculosis, the disease has decreased. In 
those occupations, which have been directly responsible for lung 
trouble even crude preventive measures have decreased phthisis to a 
remarkable extent. And the seeking out of the tuberculous employee 
and removing him from the presence of his fellows, placing him under 
proper conditions for recovery, have resulted in decreasing both 
the morbidity and mortality rate. 

The extent to which tuberculosis may be classed as an industrial 
disease may be disputed, but no argument can exist against the fact 
that improving industrial conditions decreases the tuberculosis rate. 
But the employer alone cannot be blamed for these deplorable con- 
ditions which make the disease so prevalent. Society at large is 
responsible to a certain extent. And society, through the official 
agencies of the state and federal governments, should improve all 
conditions tending to lower the nation's resistance and should in 



THE TUBERCULOUS EMPLOYEE 431 

addition provide the machinery for discovering and properly curing 
the tuberculous people among us. A concerted fight on the part of 
the nation against this disease would in time eradicate it completely 
and at the same time would solve most of the social evils coincidental 
with it. 

The tuberculous, whether he is the single employee of a small 
shop or one of a hundred thousand working force in an industry, 
must be sought out and cared for. The conditions in his working 
place or in his home that made the disease possible must be removed. 
All who come in intimate contact with him must be examined for 
possible infection. In fact each individual case must be thoroughly 
studied and the possibilities of the spread of the disease from this 
source must be followed out in all its ramifications. Such a machinery 
will not only reach the tuberculous in adult life but will reach into 
childhood as well. 

Under the incentive of war we have seen the nations mobilize 
their forces and concentrate their every effort against the common 
enemy which was spreading death and degradation among us. The 
medical forces, sacrificing personal wealth and aggrandizement, have 
responded gloriously in this fight. If we could maintain this same 
great war machine, and the civilian agencies, such as the Red Cross 
and all government agencies, after the war, to concentrate their efforts 
against tuberculosis, and all the other social diseases, devastating our 
people even more than war has done, it would result in a more glorious, 
far reaching victory than we are gaining over the Huns. 

PREVALENCE OF TUBERCULOSIS IN INDUSTRY 

It is not our purpose to classify all tuberculous employees as the 
victims of an occupational disease and thereby add to the liability of 
the employer in these cases. But rather to show that in some cases 
there is a legal responsibility and in many others a moral responsibility 
which must be assumed by the employer at this time in the absence 
of any state responsibility for these sufferers. And the physician in 
industry is in the strategical position to attack this disease where it is 
the most prevalent. 

The causes of tuberculosis in industry can be divided into pre- 
disposing etiologic factors, the active cause being the bacillus of 
tuberculosis itself, discovered by Koch in 1880. The relationship 
to industry of some of these predisposing conditions is very remote, 
while others are so closely connected with certain industries that they 
represent almost an active causal agency. In the latter cases tuber- 
culosis should be classed as an occupational disease, the employer 
being held liable for the condition. Only in this way will the proper 



432 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

preventive measures be taken where these more or less active causes 
exist. 

These predisposing factors to tuberculosis among employees are as 
follows: 

1. Hereditary predisposition and family infection. 

2. Poor housing and living conditions and other community 
conditions. 

3. Alcoholism and other excesses.. 

4. Unsanitary working places and working conditions. 

5. Tuberculous employees among the working force forming "foci 
of infection." 

6. Prevalence of other diseases. 

7. Injuries to chest and other injuries. 

8. Specific occupational hazards. 

The relationship of industry to hereditary predisposition and 
to family infection is indeed very remote and yet it exists. In cer- 
tain industries, as for instance the textile workers of New England, 
or in the copper mines of Montana, the children often follow the parents 
into the mills or mines. Physicians in these communities have told 
me of members of families, for at least three generations, dying of 
this disease. Heredity and family infection have undoubtedly played 
their part but the working conditions have been responsible to a cer- 
tain extent for these deaths. In some of these families where each 
succeeding generation has followed the occupation of the parents 
the signs of a hereditary predisposition to tuberculosis have in- 
creased hi each group of children. The smaller stature, the narrow 
chest and the stooped shoulders of these children point to industries' 
responsibility toward them and toward society. Improved working 
conditions, with every preventive measure installed, would stop these 
family infections. 

Poor housing and living conditions increase the number of tuber- 
culous employees. Some industries have even provided long rows 
of tenements for their employees and their families. These poorly 
built homes, with their insanitary arrangements, and their dark, ill- 
ventilated sleeping rooms, have reduced the efficiency of their workers 
and caused disease to become more prevalent. Poverty among em- 
ployees has forced them to dwell in unhygienic surroundings and to 
live under conditions which have been proven by many investigators 
to predispose to tuberculosis. 

The employer should see that the community, responsible for fur- 
nishing him his labor supply, is cleaned up and kept clean; that his 
employees are paid a living wage and are subtly educated to proper 
living environments. All his efforts to improve health conditions 
in his plant can be undone by unhealthful community conditions. 



THE TUBERCULOUS EMPLOYEE 433 

Good business, as well as a certain moral responsibility, should force 
every concern to remove these predisposing causes. 

Alcoholism, venereal diseases and many other forms of excesses, 
are acknowledged predisposing factors to tuberculosis, as well as 
a direct cause of inefficiency. Beer drinking during working hours 
has increased at an alarming rate among the workers of hundreds of 
different industries. Some of these employees will drink at least two 
gallons of beer during the day. This is encouraged by some employers, 
and not prohibited by others for the fear of losing these men. Other 
concerns have increased alcoholism by paying in checks and allowing 
the corner saloon to cash these checks. In many communities the 
saloon offers the only club facilities for the working class. They can 
go here and eat their lunches in warmth, and in the evening can find 
a warm place to congregate where facilities for games and amusements 
are freely furnished. In such communities the cheap dance hall is the 
only source of entertainment for the girls. Alcoholism, venereal dis- 
eases and late hours prevail, and result in tuberculosis and inefficiency. 
Society and the industries that do not provide the means of combat- 
ing these conditions are responsible. Dr. Wilbur Post recognized 
the deleterious effects of alcoholism on the employees of a large industry 
in Chicago. These men were in the habit of "rushing the growler" 
during working hours, and to have their beer at the noon hour with 
whiskey in the morning and evening. He arranged through the 
management, to meet small groups of employees each day for a twenty 
minute talk, on the company's time. He gave these talks until every 
man in the concern had heard them several times. In a snappy, 
subtle way he drove home the undermining influences of this constant 
use of alcohol, and in time decreased the sale of beer among these 
men over 75 per cent. Buttermilk was advocated as a substitute 
and the concern saw that 'opportunity for buying buttermilk was 
provided. 

The environments of the working place are frequently the cause 
of tuberculosis, and here the industry is more directly responsible for 
the disease. Overcrowding of working places was best exemplified by 
the sweat-shops among garment workers so prevalent a few years ago. 
Doctors Price and Scherechewsky found in 2000 garment workers 
in New York a tuberculosis rate of 5 per cent., whereas among 1000 
steel workers they only found .9 per cent, affected with this disease. 

Poor ventilation usually is coincident with overcrowding. Vitality 
is practically always reduced by ill ventilated, contaminated working 
rooms. The presence of inorganic dust and of pathogenic bacteria 
thrown off from the workers in the room add greatly to the disease 
hazard. 

Lack of facilities for the proper removal of dust is another hazard 

28 



434 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

for tuberculosis. Dry sweeping in the rooms, where people are 
employed is one of the most dangerous practices. Dust created in many 
occupational processes is known to be especially predisposing to 
respiratory conditions. Ventilators, fans and artificial means of remov- 
ing dusts are imperative; where such appliances are neglected there 
is a direct responsibility on the employer for the cases of tubercu- 
losis which develop. 

Forcing employees to work constantly in dark, damp places 
is a cause for lowered vitality and a predisposition to tuberculosis. 
That such working places cannot be avoided at times may be granted, 
but no man should be forced to work there day in and day out. These 
employees should be changed frequently, say every three weeks, 
to outside employment. They should also be subjected to more 
frequent physical examinations and other forms of health supervision 
to prevent the incipient development of this disease. 

Exposure to extremes of heat and cold, and other forms of poor 
temperature and humidity provisions, is another predisposing factor 
in industry which is responsible for many cases of phthisis. 

Industrial sanitation is the means of removing all these factors 
and that industry which neglects the environments of its working 
force should be held liable for its tuberculous employee. 

Employees working in intimate contact with each other, are 
constantly exposed to the diseased fellow employee in their midst. 
This is true of tuberculosis as well as all contagious diseases. These 
men with tuberculosis, where proper supervision does not exist, 
will continue to work as long as they are able, and meanwhile the dis- 
ease is advancing and the number of germs thrown off by their 
coughing and spitting increases daily. 

The author found twenty-six cases of tuberoulosis among a 
large number of packers in two years. The sources of infection were 
removed and in the next seven years only seven cases of this disease 
developed among this force. While proper supervision accounted for 
part of these results, yet the segregation of these sources of infection 
undoubtedly removed the cause of contamination. 

Ten years ago when the physical examination of employees in 
industrial concerns was first advocated, it was met with every form 
of objection. But today it is recognized as one of the greatest efficiency 
measures, as well as the most advanced public health movement, 
which can be adopted. It is the greatest means of health supervision, 
and health supervision of employees forms the very foundation of all 
common-sense efforts at so called welfare work. Every employer 
should see that his working force is carefully supervised in order to 
discover and remove these foci of infection the tuberculous 
employees. 






THE TUBERCULOUS EMPLOYEE 435 

Certain industries, due either to unsanitary conditions, or the nature 
of the work, or the location of the plant, seem predisposed to other 
respiratory diseases These diseases are often the cause of the lighting 
up of a case of tuberculosis. It behooves every concern, therefore, to 
combat these antecedent diseases. When the causes for them exist 
in either the working place or in the community, every effort should 
be made to remove the same in order to prevent the worst disease 
tuberculosis. 

Following the epidemic of so called grip, in the winter of 1915, the 
author found eighteen cases of tuberculosis in the month of March 
among employees who had been working in a concern where careful 
medical supervision was in vogue. Twelve of these employees had 
been thoroughly examined during the preceding year, and no evidence 
of tuberculosis was found. This epidemic was responsible for light- 
ing up the disease. Our efforts, which resulted in controlling 
the "grip" epidemic, and in reducing the sick rate among these 
employees to a much lower percentage than that in the community 
at large, undoubtedly reduced the number of tuberculosis cases 
which followed in its wake. Overcrowding, poor ventilation, fatigue, 
and lack of immediate medical care, are directly responsible for the 
increasing number of so called grippe, or epidemics of streptococcic res- 
piratory conditions among employees. These epidemics are becoming 
more and more a cause of immediate high absence rate among 
employees. The extent to which they are contributing to absenteeism 
in the following months, chiefly because of tuberculosis cannot be 
estimated. 

Cigar makers are. more subject to these milder respiratory 
conditions, and they are also known to have a higher tuberculosis rate 
than many other employees. Protection against these milder condi- 
tions would result in a lowered tuberculosis morbidity. 

These two examples are sufficient to point out the responsi- 
bility of the employer in protecting his working force from those 
influences which cause these antecedent diseases which often result in 
consumption. 

Sir Thomas Oliver, in his book on Diseases of Occupation, has devoted 
considerable attention to the relationship between traumatism and 
tuberculosis. He describes several cases of injury to the chest in 
men who later developed tuberculosis. Some of these had been 
examined previous to the injury and no sign of tuberculosis was dis- 
covered, neither was there any family tendency to this disease. One 
case, a previously healthy male, two weeks after a severe blow on his 
chest, developed a pleurisy. This man continued to lose weight and 
grew rapidly worse. A few weeks later his physician found tubercle 
bacilli in his sputum. Under proper treatment the man finally 



436 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

recovered. The conclusion was reached that the trauma was responsible 
for the disease. 

In my experience, I have had twelve cases of traumatic pleurisy. 
All of these followed a direct injury to the chest wall; none had evidence 
of fractured ribs. One of these developed the signs and symptoms 
of tuberculosis, but the germs were never found in his sputum. After 
three months of treatment which corresponded in every respect with 
the treatment of tuberculosis, the man recovered. At the time of 
the injury a stethoscopic examination of his chest revealed none 
of the signs which later developed. This stethoscopic examina- 
tion of every injury to the chest wall is very important, and will 
often enable the physician to prevent an injustice being done to either 
the employer or employee. 

One of the above cases was struck in the lower side of his left chest 
by a falling box. He reported to the doctor's office at once. The 
routine examination with the stethoscope was made and signs of tuber- 
culosis were found in both apices. His sputum was immediately 
examined and found to contain the germs. An x-ray examination 
showed no fractured ribs, but revealed large areas of calcification and 
fibrosis in the lungs. The condition was explained to the boy and 
his family. It was carefully pointed out that this disease was already 
existent and active and that the blow had nothing to do with it. This 
concern followed its usual custom and sent this employee to a sana- 
torium for treatment, paying all of his expenses. He recovered and 
left the sanatorium in seven months and was again employed. The 
injury to his chest wall did not seem to increase his lung trouble. A 
case similar to this is described under the medicolegal chapter. 

Another employee received a nail wound of the hand and developed 
a severe streptococcus infection. At his first general examination, 
made one week after the injury, no signs of tuberculosis were found. 
There was no family history of this disease. The infection in the 
hand persisted for several weeks and required extensive drainage under 
a general anesthetic. He finally recovered from this, but remained 
emaciated and did not regain his strength. About three months 
after the injury he began to cough and expectorate. Dullness and 
rales developed in the lungs and tubercle bacilli were found in the 
sputum. My opinion was demanded as to whether the injury was 
responsible for this pulmonary condition. The fact that there was 
no evidence of the disease one week after injury, and that his lowered 
resistance followed directly as the result of the severe infection, making 
it possible for this disease to develop, caused me to give the opinion 
that his injury was the predisposing factor, and the employer should 
be responsible. 

There is no doubt but that injuries can predispose to tuberculosis, 



THE TUBERCULOUS EMPLOYEE 437 

and it is essential for industry to recognize the fact and take the neces- 
sary precautions against accidents, and provide the best of care for all 
injured in order to prevent this complication. 

OCCUPATIONAL HAZARDS 

Tuberculosis follows so frequently in the wake of certain occupa- 
tions that these have come to be recognized as definite predisposing 
causes for the disease. Just as plumbism is a definite occupational 
disease for which employers may be held legally liable, so tubercu- 
losis should be classed as an occupational disease when it develops in 
certain industries. 

Frederick S. Crum in his treatise on "The Mortality from Diseases 
of the Lungs in American Industry," Hoffman and other excellent 
authorities, have definitely demonstrated that certain occupations are 
directly responsible for this pulmonary condition. 

Those industrial processes which contaminate the atmosphere of the 
working place with inorganic or organic dusts are especially pre- 
disposing to pulmonary tuberculosis, as well as to other respiratory 
diseases. It is estimated that approximately 5,500,000 wage earners 
of both sexes, or 12.5 per cent, of the total wage earning force of 
the country work under conditions where this atmospheric pollution is 
very prevalent, and of known hazard to the employees. A careful 
investigation in many of the smaller concerns, and of the more ob- 
scure occupations, would undoubtedly reveal a higher percentage of 
workers exposed to dust hazards. 

The metallic dusts, with their millions of jagged, angular micro- 
scopic particles floating in the atmosphere, are probably the most 
hurtful to the lung tissue. The constant irritation from these particles 
causes a fibrosis which is a favorable garden spot for the tubercle 
bacillus, or may cause death from some other respiratory disease. 

Mr. Crum based his study on the experience of the Prudential 
Life Insurance Company which for years has kept careful statistics 
on the causes of death among policy holders engaged in these dusty 
occupations. He says, "In the Prudential experience the group of 
occupations exposing the workmen to metallic dust shows the most 
disastrous results, as evidenced in the mortality returns from both 
tuberculosis of the lungs and other respiratory diseases. At ages 
25 to 34, taking the group as a whole, of the total deaths 53.9 per cent, 
were caused by tuberculosis of the lungs and 8 per cent, were from 
other respiratory diseases. Respiratory diseases at this age period 
together caused an excess mortality of 25.3 per cent, if comparison 
is made with the mortality from these diseases in the non-dusty oc- 
cupations. At ages 35 to 44, tuberculosis of the lungs caused 44.7 



438 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

per cent, of the total deaths and the other respiratory diseases caused 
9.7 per cent. In other words, respiratory diseases, tuberculous and 
non-tuberculous, caused 54.4 per cent, of all the deaths of occupied 
males, ages 35 to 44, in the group of occupations exposing to metallic 
dusts,' in the Prudential experience. This represents an excess 
mortality from these causes of 22.2 per cent, as compared with the 
non-dusty occupations in the same experience. 

Specific occupations in this group with exceptionally high 
mortality from lung diseases are cutlery makers, file makers, metal 
grinders and polishers, brass workers, printers, engravers, tool makers, 
gold beaters, etc. 

Metal grinders, polishers and buffers invariably show a high mor- 
tality from respiratory diseases as a direct result of their inhalation of 
metallic dust particles. The peculiar effect on the lungs of metallic 
dust is described by some writers on occupational diseases as "grinders' 

rot." 

In the Prudential experience, metal grinders and polishers show 
an excess mortality from tuberculosis of the lungs at ages 25 to 34 of 
60 per cent, and at ages 35 to 44 an excess of 107.1 per cent. The 
mortality of this class of workmen from other diseases of the lungs was 
practically the same as ages 25 to 44 as in the non-dusty occupations. 

The oft quoted figures from the medical officers of health of Shef- 
field, England, show that for the period of 1889 to 1910 tuberculosis 
caused 43 per cent, and other respiratory diseases 24.9 per cent, of the 
deaths among grinders. 

Most mineral dusts cause a high mortality rate from tuberculosis. 
During the period of 1907 to 1914 in Montana the mortality report 
among copper miners shows that out of 1614 deaths, for ages of 15 and 
over, 611 or 37.9 per cent, were due to tuberculosis, and 364 or 22.6 
per cent, resulted from other respiratory diseases. In this registra- 
tion area the male deaths for the same age period showed 14.1 per 
cent, due to tuberculosis and 10.8 per cent, to other respiratory 
causes. These figures certainly demonstrate that copper mining 
is especially hazardous and results in excessive mortality from 
consumption. 

Coal miners and cement workers seem to suffer the least from the 
dust created by their occupations. In fact colliers in well ventilated 
coal mines were found to have a comparatively low mortality rate 
from this disease according to F. A. R. Russel of the Smithsonian 
Institute who wrote on this subject in 1896. 

Quoting again from the Prudential experience among stone and 
marble cutters, planers and polishers, we find these occupations par- 
ticularly hazardous if we are to judge from their mortality returns. 
The excess mortality from tuberculosis of the lungs at ages 25 to 34 



THE TUBERCULOUS EMPLOYEE 439 

among these workmen was 40 per cent, and at ages 35 to 44 it was 
34.4 per cent. This experience is confirmed by other data and it has 
long been a well known fact that stone cutters are very liable to a 
fibroid form of pulmonary tuberculosis. In Washington County, 
Vermont, the general mortality returns are available for the six year 
period, 1900 to 1905. These statistics show that pulmonary tuber- 
culosis caused 46.2 per cent, of all the deaths among these workers and 
other respiratory diseases caused 14.7 per cent, of the total mortality. 
Diseases of the respiratory system, tuberculous and non-tuberculous, 
were, therefore, responsible for 60.9 per cent, of all the deaths of stone 
and marble workers in Washington County, Vermont, during 1900 
to 1905. 

Such terms as "grinder's rot, " pneumoconiosis, silicosis and others, 
prove that both the laity and medical profession have recognized the 
existence of these conditions among employees subjected to metal 
and mineral dusts. 

The cotton and linen textile workers, wood workers and paper 
makers are exposed chiefly to vegetable dusts. The mortality rate 
from tuberculosis among these employees has been excessively high. 
Cotton spinners at ages of 35 to 44 were found to have an excess 
mortality of 90 per cent, when compared with non-dusty occupa- 
tions for these ages. 

Animal and mixed fiber dust has also been found very injurious 
to the lungs. For example, among hat-makers the mortality rate from 
tuberculosis was 60 per cent, for ages 25 to 34, according to Mr. Crum. 
The death rate from lung diseases among leather workers, especially 
boot and shoe employees, has been notoriously high. In Oxford, 
Massachusetts, a boot and shoe factory showed a record of one 
death out of every six of its employees due to tuberculosis. Car- 
pet weavers, upholsterers, silk and woolen mill employees, furriers, 
workers in hair and hair goods, mattress makers, garment workers 
and employees in many other occupations, are exposed to this animal 
and mixed fiber dust. 

Workers exposed constantly to street or municipal dusts were 
found to have a high tuberculosis mortality rate, judging from the 
Prudential experience. Street car conductors and street cleaners 
were especially affected by this form of dust. This should be given 
more thought as many physicians have been in the habit of recom- 
mending teaming or the occupation of chauffeur to the arrested case 
of tuberculosis. 

The occupations where general organic dust was prevalent all 
showed an increased mortality rate from tuberculosis. For instance, 
bakers, candy-makers, millers, harness and shoemakers, tanner^ 
button makers, glove makers, tobacco workers, celluloid workers, 



440 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

and grain handlers, showed a death rate of 51.8 per cent, from this 
disease according to the Prudential statistics. 

These examples of the occupational hazard of dust caused Robert 
Hessler (Dusty Air and 111 Health) to say, "Tuberculosis is really a 
protest against bad air conditions, just as typhoid is a protest against 
bad water." 

In England, Sir James Crichton Browne summed up his experiences 
on "The Dust Problem" as follows: "Industrial dust, per se, apart 
from poisonous or pestilential mixture, is a sufficiently interesting 
theme from a sanitary point of view, for the returns of mortality re- 
veal that notwithstanding the highly successful crusade against it, 
which has been and is being conducted by our factory inspectors, nobly 
assisted now by local authorities, intelligent employers, and awakened 
workpeople, it is still responsible for an appalling amount of suffering r 
disablement and death. 

"The mortality of the principal dust producing occupations, com- 
pared with that of agriculturists who live and work in what is prac- 
tically dustless atmosphere, is excessive to a startling degree. It is 
not suggested that this excess is to be ascribed to dust alone; no doubt 
various factors contribute to it, but the facts that it is due mainly to 
respiratory diseases, that it is distributed among the several occupations 
pretty much in proportion to their dustiness, and that it has diminished 
in some instances where dust has been effectually dealt with, justify 
the conclusion that it is largely dust-begotten." 

Many other occupations have shown a high mortality rate from 
tuberculosis among the employees. This field has only been scratched, 
and it behooves all physicians in industry to seek out those occupations 
which are especially deleterious to the lungs ancf make comprehensive 
reports on the same. 

One of the earliest contributions to the relationship between 
phthisis and occupation was that of Perrond in 1875. This writer 
drew attention to the prevalence of this disease among the sailors 
on the Rhone, and attributed it to the fact that these men pressed 
their chest wall on the pole of the rudder in steering the ships. 

Schereschewsky has repeatedly pointed out that the cramped, 
stooping posture which employees must assume in certain occupations r 
is responsible for many of the lung conditions which they develop. 
For example, the posture of the garment workers has the effect of 
limiting lung expansion with a consequent poor nutrition due to sub- 
oxidation and a resulting lowered resistance to respiratory diseases. 
Again, the grinder and polisher presses the object he is working on 
against the chest, reducing thereby his respiration, and thus adds 
this factor to the hazard of dust. 

Dr. James Britton of Chicago found a much higher rate of tuber- 



THE TUBERCULOUS EMPLOYEE 441 

culosis among the 1000 clerks of a large industry located in the city 
than among the factory employees working at the outskirts of the 
city. The former had far better environments in their working places 
than the latter. But the sedentary work and the posture assumed 
when sitting at the desk evidently lowered the resistance of these 
clerks. 

The author's experience was quite similar to that of Doctor Britton. 
In 300 cases of tuberculosis among employees of a large industry 
31 per cent, were among the clerical force, which constituted about 
30 per cent, of the entire force. Packers and allied workers made up 
about 10 per cent, of the force, and furnished 13 per cent, of the cases 
of phthisis; approximately 3 per cent, of the employees were truckers 
and 6 per cent, of the cases were found among these. Their work, 
as a rule, subjected them to considerable exposure to dust. A com- 
paratively small force of porters were employed, yet 3 per cent, of 
the tuberculosis cases came from this group. This bears out the 
experience of other authorities that porter work is particularly 
hazardous as regards phthisis. Better measures must be adopted for 
sweeping and the handling of cuspidors and other refuse in order to 
protect these porters against infection. 

Among the clerical workers the stenographers showed a greater 
tendency to the disease. No better argument can be advanced for 
rest periods with exercise, especially deep breathing exercises, and for 
educational campaigns on the need of proper recreation at the noon 
hour and in the evening, for these stenographers and other sedentary 
workers in industry. 

Old paper gathered up in the various departments and old paper 
bought up from rag pickers is put through paper cutting machines 
and used by many concerns for packing purposes. The dust from 
this paper is undoubtedly contaminated with pathogenic organisms 
to a marked degree. Straw used in packing is also very dusty. These 
materials add greatly to the hazard of this occupation. When this 
fact was pointed out to one large concern they immediately built 
a factory in Northern Michigan and made excelsior to be used for 
packing purposes. This clean material, with its decreased dust, plus 
the fact that the sources of infection were removed, by discovering 
and eliminating all tuberculous employees in their working force, 
has been the means of reducing phthisis among their packers. 

These examples of the tendency of certain work to predispose ta 
tuberculosis are sufficient to prove that the employer who fails to take 
proper precautionary measures to prevent this disease among his 
employees, engaged in these hazardous occupations, should be held 
responsible for this the same as for any other occupational disease. 



442 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

PREVENTION 

What measures therefore are necessary to prevent tuberculosis 
among employees? 

They are (a) eliminate the tuberculous from the working force; (6) 
protect the employees from the predisposing causes; (c) supervise 
the physical condition of the workers by medical examinations. 

The examination of all applicants for work furnishes the only 
means of preventing these foci of infection, the tuberculous, from 
mingling with the old working force. Likewise, the constant super- 
vision of the health of the old employees by medical examinations 
will reveal those who have developed this disease and who must also 
be eliminated from the working place. There is sufficient evidence 
of the spread of tuberculosis from one individual to another by close 
daily contact, especially when predisposing conditions in the work 
lower the resistance of the employees, to warrant the segregation 
and even the isolation of these cases. 

Protection of the workers against the predisposing causes is the 
duty of every employer and should be made legally compulsory. This 
is not a hardship or an unjust demand on any concern for protection 
against this disease always means an improved working environment, 
a healthier more contented working force, decreased labor turn-over 
and therefore increased production. An enlightened business world 
should grasp these facts and voluntarily protect the labor market 
from this and other destructive diseases. 

These preventive measures have been set forth at length in 
numerous other places in this book, especially under Industrial 
Hygiene. In combating tuberculosis the ventilation including 
dust removal, temperature and humidity and cleanliness of the 
working rooms are the three most important conditions for industry 
in general to consider. Overcrowded, dark, damp, ill ventilated, 
stuffy rooms have been responsible for hundreds of thousands of 
deaths from phthisis. These conditions plus dusty occupations are 
the great allies of the tubercle bacillus. So easy to prevent, and yet 
what an economic waste they have caused during the centuries. 

In the best conducted business these faults will creep in. The 
primary object of the management is to maintain production. The 
employees are directly absorbed with their work. Therefore, it is 
necessary for the physician in industry to concentrate his efforts on 
these preventive measures. Frequent inspections of the working 
places must be made; tests of the ventilation, of the temperature 
and humidity of the atmosphere must be made a routine part of his 
work. In a large concern it is well to assign this duty to one doctor 
who must be held responsible for maintaining health standards in 
the working place. His recommendations should be made to the 



THE TUBEKCULOUS EMPLOYEE 443 

highest authority in the management and repeatedly made until 
faulty conditions are corrected. 

In those occupations where dust or fumes are created, especially 
when of a known hazard to the lungs, every facility must be provided 
for the proper removal of the same. These consist of hoods, large 
conducting pipes, suction fans and other apparatus. In some concerns 
where great attention has been given to this hazard, practically all 
dust is eliminated from the rooms. Instead of throwing this dust 
into the outside atmosphere it is often collected in bags or rooms 
provided for the purpose and salvaged. This salvaging process alone 
has paid many times over for the expense of installing the necessary 
system. 

The removal of dangerous fumes is just as essential for often these 
fumes, as for instance, lead, will predispose to tuberculosis even with- 
out causing the specific occupational disease. 

A factory, with both hazards of dust and of fumes, was recently 
inspected. The management was very proud of the fact that it had 
provided protective measures for the employees. The hoods, which 
cost $50,000 to install, were pointed to with pride. But these 
hoods were some four feet over the lead vats; other hoods for dust 
removal were covered on their exterior with the fine metal dust. 
The dust that was collected discharged from a pipe just outside the 
building and much of it was blown back into the room through an 
adjacent, open window. 

The physician should always demand the services of an expert 
industrial engineer to take charge of installing ventilation and dust 
and fume removal systems. Concerns will meet the problems more 
thoroughly and will save needless expense by employing such engineers. 

The use by employees of a non-irritating, simple respirator, should 
be enforced in all occupations where dust and fumes prevail. Such 
respirators are often furnished by the employer, but no effort is made 
to compel their use. 

Educational campaigns among the employees is the greatest means 
of securing their co-operation in all these preventive measures. 

Excellent reports on the reduction of disease in certain hazardous 
occupations by the use of these various devices, coupled with educating 
the employees to their use have been published by the Pennsylvania 
and New Jersey Departments of Industry and Labor, as well as by 
the United States Department of Labor. These furnish irrefutable 
evidence that tuberculosis can be controlled in these occupations. 
The next step for these governmental agencies is to provide means 
of punishment for those industries which continue to neglect 
precautions. 

The benefits derived from a healthful working place may be com- 



444 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

pletely nullified by faulty home conditions and insanitary community 
surroundings. While the employer cannot be held legally responsible 
for these, yet it behooves him to see that they are corrected. This 
is another duty for the medical staff. Co-operation with the city 
and state health authorities will improve community conditions which 
should always include housing conditions. By the aid of the visiting 
nurses, and by subtle suggestions from the doctors and often by actual 
assistance from the employer better home conditions can be obtained 
for most of the employees. 

The third great preventive measure which every industry, and every 
small employer should adopt is the constant supervision of the physical 
condition of the employees by medical examinations. The method 
of doing this is dealt with in other chapters. To reiterate though, 
some system must be established whereby every employee will be 
examined and re-examined whenever necessary. Those working in 
dusty occupations, in rooms which must perforce be dark or damp, 
or where other hazards exist, should be examined at stated intervals, 
preferably every month, and certainly every three months. These 
examinations will enable the discovery of all tuberculous cases in an 
early and therefore curable state. Combined with the examination 
of applicants they furnish the means of eliminating these cases from 
the working force. 

After a man has been cured of tuberculosis he should be allowed to 
return to the industry to work at his old occupation, if no hazard for 
the disease exists there, or in some allied occupation. These apparently 
cured cases therefore furnish another group of employees who should 
be periodically examined to guard against a recurrence. 

TREATMENT OF THE TUBERCULOUS EMPLOYEE 

The elimination of the tuberculous employees from the working 
place means excessive hardships for them and their families, and often 
is a very decided contributing factor to their deaths, unless provisions 
are made for their proper care, preferably in sanatoria, and the 
adequate support of their dependents during the period of treatment. 
Until recent years no such provisions were made for the treatment 
of these cases, resulting therefore in a high death rate particularly 
among the poor. 

To-day, chiefly because of the efforts of the members of the National 
Tuberculosis Association and the various state and municipal tuber- 
culosis institutes, there are numerous sanatoria scattered through- 
out the country where free, or very reasonable, treatment can be 
given to these sufferers. Massachusetts has established such sana- 
toria in several counties and plans to have one in practically every 






THE TUBERCULOUS EMPLOYEE 445 

county of the state. A few other states are planning similar pro- 
visions. Several state sanatoria have been established and a few 
county and municipal sanatoria. Chicago's Municipal Sanatorium 
is one of the most representative of the latter. 

Adequate provision for the support of the families during the 
period the wage earner is under treatment has not yet been made. 
The reports of any United Charities Organization in the country will 
show that they have furnished relief to hundreds of such families. 
The motive back of this relief has been noble and it was necessary, but 
charity in any form should not be a part of the social and economic 
mechanism of our country. Charity, when interpreted as brotherly 
love, should provide sick insurance or some other self-respecting means 
for the support of these dependents. 

Even with the establishment of these sanatoria no state has yet 
provided the machinery for the early discovery of the cases of 
tuberculosis. All authorities agree that the disease is usually curable 
when treatment ' is started in the incipient stage. In spite of this 
knowledge the death rate still continues high in most sanatoria because 
the cases were not admitted until the disease had reached the second 
or third stage. 

The medical profession is responsible for this condition in many 
cases. Lack of ability to diagnose the disease in its incipiency, fail- 
ure to thoroughly examine each patient, and temporizing with the 
condition by trying ambulatory or home treatment are the three most 
appalling mistakes which the family doctor makes with his tuberculous 
patients. The patients themselves often pay no attention to the 
early symptoms, dragging about their work, trying patent medicines 
and home remedies, and when finally forced to consult a physician 
the disease is in an advanced form, often incurable or entailing a 
heavy financial loss to both the patient and the state because of the 
longer period of treatment necessary. 

Even more essential than the establishing of sanatoria is for the 
state to provide the necessary machinery for the early detection of 
the consumptive and to make treatment compulsory during this early 
stage. 

The work of many industrial medical staffs has demonstrated 
the value of periodical medical examinations as the best means for 
detecting the early cases. Also many concerns have provided 
sanatorium treatment, free of charge, for their tuberculous employees 
and have thus reduced the length of treatment and the death rate on 
account of this disease to a most marked degree. 

Sick insurance, based on the fundamental principle of prevention 
first, would undoubtedly provide for the periodical examination of 
all workers. If the prevention idea is to be the basis, sick insurance 



446 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

should be compulsory for everybody. The machinery established 
to carry on this work would be the means of finding the tuberculous 
in our midst in this early, curable stage. 

Many municipal health departments provide consultants who 
visit every contagious case reported, to ascertain if the diagnosis is 
correct and if proper precautions are taken. Physicians who fail 
to report these cases early are legally responsible. A similar plan 
should be adopted in regard to tuberculosis. Early reporting, com- 
petent consultants to visit these cases or centers where they could be 
referred for examination combined with sanatorium treatment for 
all positive cases, and suitable provisions for the suspicious ones, 
would be one of the greatest life saving measures which the state could 
adopt. Punishment for the doctor failing to report his tuberculous 
patients early would soon eliminate the majority of these second and 
third stage cases which now seek sanatorium care: 

It is quite evident that tuberculosis has so many predisposing 
causes that in the majority of cases it is impossible to say which one 
has been responsible. Most of these causes however are found in 
the social and economic fabric of our every day existence. It can 
really be classed as a social disease, the prevention and cure of which 
is a state duty. 

In the absence of the state assuming this responsibility we have 
many examples of wonderful provisions for the care of the tuberculous 
by various organizations, by philanthropic citizens, and above all 
by certain individual industries. These latter have provided every 
means for prevention in the plant, and, when an employee is assailed, 
every opportunity for the best of treatment. No chapter on the tuber- 
culous employee would be complete without setting forth in detail 
examples of this care on the part of certain concerns. 

In 1906 an effort was made by a few of the large manufacturers 
of Providence, Rhode Island, to exterminate tuberculosis in their 
factories. Large placards were placed in conspicuous places advis- 
ing all employees with suspicious lung symptoms to report to Dr. 
Frank Fulton, who offered his services gratis, for examinations. The 
object was to diagnose the disease, if possible, in its early stages. Some 
eighteen cases were discovered and proper home and sanatorium treat- 
ment established. As a result, all of these workmen recovered and 
were able to return to work. 

A few years ago in Hartford, Conneticut, 10,000 employees of 
various factories, mills and other industries organized to protect them- 
selves and their families from the ravages of tuberculosis. The owners 
of these industries agreed to give a sum equal to that raised by the 
working men and women to fight the disease. Adequate medical 
aid was called into service, and by means of home and sanatorium 




THE TUBERCULOUS EMPLOYEE 447 

treatment they were able to greatly reduce the death rate from, 
consumption. 

In Oxford, Massachusetts, a boot and shoe factory showed a record 
of one death out of every six of its employees due to tuberculosis. 
In 1904 a systematic educational campaign was organized among the 
workers in this factory, its purpose being to instruct them as to the 
nature, cause and prevention of consumption. Also the owners paid 
for free treatment for three months in a sanatorium for those employees 
afflicted with the disease. As a result the deaths greatly diminished, 
and in 1907, three years later, only four people died of consumption in 
Oxford. A similar movement started in Worcester, Massachusetts, 
showed equally marked results. 

In 1909 the author started a system of medical examination of 
employees in one of the large industries of Chicago employing at 
that time about 10,000 people, and now having approximately 15,000 
employees. A great many different types of occupations were repre- 
sented here, including clerical work of all kinds, printing, packing, 
warehouse work, all kinds of merchandizing and approximately forty 
different manufacturing processes. Examples of a majority of the 
occupational hazards could be found in this plant. 

The medical examinations were first made for the purpose of dis- 
covering the tuberculous employee, but it soon extended into a 
thorough examination in order to discover all other physical defects. 
After three years, in 1912, the medical examination of all applicants 
for work was introduced, and now is one of the most vital functions of 
the medical staff of this industry. 

From January, 1909 to the end of December, 1917, 869 cases of 
tuberculosis were discovered among these employees or applicants for 
work. 

Since 1912, 245 of these cases were found among the applicants, 0.7 
per cent, of all examined. About sixty of these cases were not posi- 
tively diagnosed, but had such unmistakable signs of the disease that 
they were rejected. Others with suspicious findings in the lungs, yet 
apparently healthy, were employed but were re-examined at frequent 
intervals until the signs cleared up, or a positive diagnosis could be 
made. This policy accounts for the fact that the highest percentage 
of cases found in the old working force has been among the three to 
twelve months employees. So many suspicious cases clear up how- 
ever that a great injustice would be done these applicants if they 
were rejected for lung trouble. This also accounts for the lower 
tuberculosis rate among these applicants (0.7 per cent.) as compared 
with the rate among the total examinations made (1.7 per cent.). 

The medical staff reported all of these applicants to the City 
Health authorities and to the Chicago Tuberculosis Institute. The 



448 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

yisting nurse followed up all cases to see that they were under some 
form of supervision. It is a waste to all industries to throw these 
tuberculous cases back into society without endeavoring to place 
them under proper treatment. If every concern would adopt this 
system they would protect one another from the contamination of 
their employees by the diseased employee of some other plant. 
Your tuberculous employee may occupy the same boarding house, may 
even sleep with one of the force of another plant. The ramifications 
of the spread of the disease are so intricate that a good business sense 
should dictate a policy of joining hands against this common enemy. 
The 624 cases of tuberculosis among the old employees were 
divided as follows: 

TABLE 12 

Suspected tuberculosis 94 

Pulmonary tuberculosis 

first stage 321 

second stage ' 128 

third stage 44 

Tuberculous glands 23 

Tuberculous bones 6 

Tuberculous spine 3 

Tuberculous meningitis 1 

Tuberculous peritonitis 1 

Tuberculous kidney 1 

Tuberculous eye 1 

Tuberculous tonsil : 1 

624 

The 94 suspected cases gave the clinical findings of tuberculosis, 
but were never positively diagnosed. These cases, however, were 
sufficiently suspicious to be eliminated from the working force and 
placed under active treatment until they had recovered. The ma- 
jority of these were given home treatment, and later, when it was 
safe to stop more careful medical supervision, they were often sent to 
the country. 

Hundreds of cases, not shown in the above table, were found with 
symptoms indicating a threatened tuberculous condition. For 
instance, many employees would become anemic, lose weight, complain 
of night sweats or stomach trouble, and other symptoms, pointing to a 
generally run down condition. No definite diagnosis could be made, 
but nevertheless vacations were secured for them, and they were 
placed on a general building up regime, many going to the country 
to rest and recuperate. Unquestionably a number of such employees 
would have developed an active tuberculosis if they had not been 
detected at this stage and these precautions taken. 



THE TUBERCULOUS EMPLOYEE 



449 



From the very beginning of this work this concern provided 
free treatment for 4 tuberculous employees. While their occupations 
were not responsible for the condition, except in a very few instances, 
yet the. fact that these people were forced to quit work for the 
protection of the rest of the employees, caused the management to feel 
a certain moral responsibility for their care. The first two years 
this free treatment was given only to those employees who had worked 
for the concern more than one year, but since then every case was 
offered the free treatment. Except in a few of the early stage cases 




FIG. 60. A tuberculous employee under treatment at home. The visiting nurse on 

her bi-weekly call. 

with unusually good home surroundings, or where the employee 
was from the country and it seemed advisable for him to return 
there, sanatorium treatment was advised for all. Many at first refused 
to go to a sanatorium, but each succeeding year made it easier to 
persuade the tuberculous employee to accept this form of treatment. 
For those who refused to go arrangements were made for proper treat- 
ment at home, either directly under the care of the medical staff or 
under their family physician. The visiting nurse was of the greatest 
help in supervising this treatment in either plan. (See Fig. 60.) 

Often the home conditions were totally unfit for the proper treat- 
ment of the case; or were not suitable for the patient to return to 

29 



450 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



after completing the sanatorium care. The doctor reported these 
conditions to the management and in almost every instance the 
family was persuaded to move to better surroundings. Money was 
furnished, whenever necessary, to stand the expense of moving and of 
preparing a suitable sleeping porch for the patient. At first consider- 
able difficulty was encountered with many family physicians, but of 
recent years these doctors have co-operated in the work chiefly 







l^l^M^^^l^^Ml^^BHBHBI^^nm^^^KiHHBai^BHHBBIHHl^BBBBiMHMMHIHBBBBHM^^^^HBiHK^^^^B 

FIG. 61. A tent erected in the rear of a flat building where a tuberculous employee 
after returning from the sanatorium continued his treatment. 

because they know that every facility for properly diagnosing the 
case is used by the medical staff and that the treatment afforded by 
them gives better results than any home treatment which they can 
offer. 

The 530 cases which were positively diagnosed were treated in the 
following places: 

TABLE 13 

In sanatorium 370 

At home 108 

In the country 40 

Lost track of 12 

Total.. . 530 



THE TUBERCULOUS EMPLOYEE 451 

The first two years of this experience only thirty-four cases out 
of one hundred and sixteen consented to sanatorium treatment, 
whereas in the last two years, one hundred and twenty of the tubercu- 
lous employees accepted the offer of free sanatorium care out of one 
hundred forty-two cases. This proves the value of educational 
work among the employees and also is positive proof of the good 
results obtained. 

The sanatoria chiefly used were Edward Tuberculosis Sanatorium 
at Naperville, Illinois, the Winifield (Illinois) Sanatorium belonging 
to the Chicago Jewish Aid Society, the Chicago Fresh Air Sanatorium, 
the Valmora Sanatorium of Watrous, New Mexico, and others. All 
but sixty of the cases were treated in home climates. There was 
practically no difference in the results obtained between the local 
climatic conditions and those afforded by the high altitude and climate 
of the West. The greater willingness of the employees to go to a 
sanatorium near home and the happier frame of mind on the part of 
both the patients and their families has caused us to favor treatment 
in their home territory. 

The results of this treatment are shown in Table 13. 

TABLE 14 

Cured 236 

Arrested 67 

Improved 44 

Unimproved 5 

Deaths 30 

Lost trace of 113* 

Still under treatment 33 

Total 530 

The average length of treatment for patients in sanatoria was six 
months; and for those receiving non-sanatorium treatment ten and 
two-third months. Of the total number of employees who have 
received treatment approximately two hundred fifty have returned 
to work in the same concern, at their old occupations or in some other 
position less hazardous. There have been twenty recurrences among 
those cases kept under observation and in all but three of these the 
disease has again been arrested. This is a far lower recurrence rate 
than is usually found in this disease, thus demonstrating the value of 
health supervision. The use of short vacations when threatening 
symptoms developed prevented many of these employees from break- 
ing down. 

Twenty-nine out of the forty-four third stage or advanced cases 
were found during the first two years of this work. Ten of the deaths 

*Since their discharge from treatment. 



452 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



occurred during the first two years the remaining twenty deaths were 
scattered through the last seven years. (See Fig. 62.) 

These two facts substantiate the claim that physical examination of 
employees enables the discovery of tuberculous cases in the earlier 
stages, thereby reducing the death rate, and shortening the time of 
treatment necessary for a cure. 



7600 I 9100 I 9000 110000 111600 



TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYES 




FIG. <>2. Reduction in number of cases of tuberculosis found and in the death rate 
as number of employees examined increases. 1, Per cent, of employees examined from 
total number. 2, Per cent, of tuberculous employees found among number examined. 
3, Per cent, of deaths among those found tuberculous. 

The age periods at which these tuberculous cases were found were 
as follows: 

TABLE 15 
Age Per cent, of cases 

15-20 21 . 

20-25 : 34.4 

25-30 , 23.9 

30-35 8.0 

35-40 5.0 

40-45 4.1 

45-50 3.0 

50 or over 0.5 

While the tuberculosis rate decreased markedly after the age of 35, 
yet the discovery of this disease among the applicants and new 
employees resulted in a very noticeable reduction in the incidence 
among the older force. For example in 1909 there were only five 
hundred ten employees who had worked at the plant for five years 
or more, but 33 per cent, of our tuberculous employees were found 
among these. Six years later, in 1914, there were two thousand 



THE TUBERCULOUS EMPLOYEE 



453 




Sears shack, Edwards Sanatorium, Naperville, 111. 





VfctufcR 




J-pwli < i <ta>.- 



Itert- 



FIG. 63. Plan of sleeping shack for six patients. 



454 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

forty-nine people who had worked here for five years or longer, and 
only 13.8 per cent, of the tuberculous were among this number. 
This result was obtained by constant health supervision, by eliminating 
the tuberculous applicant and by improved working conditions. 
Fig. 52 illustrates very graphically this decrease in tuberculosis 
among the older employees and also shows the great advantage to 
the concern of examining applicants for work. There were only 
eight hundred thorough examinations made in 1909 when one physician 
was employed, whereas in 1914, with six physicians, twelve thousand 
three hundred eighty complete examinations were made. 

The results obtained from discovering and reclaiming the tuber- 
culous employees in this concern has been one of the most gratifying 
features of the medical work. The co-operation of the manage- 
ment has at all times been of the greatest aid, and their example has 
influenced other industries, especially in Chicago, to adopt a similar 
program. 

In 1910 because of the limited capacity in Sanatoria great difficulty 
was experienced in securing prompt admission of our patients. The 
result was that the management erected a shack at the Edward 
Sanatorium for the accommodation of more patients. Since then the 
Chicago Telephone Company, the International Harvester Company, 
Montgomery Ward and Company, and Swift and Company have each 
built shacks at this sanatorium for the use of their employees. (See 
Fig. 63.) 

In 1911 thirty of Chicago's largest industries contributed the funds 
for the establishment of a sanatorium at Watrous, New Mexico, 
where their employees could receive treatment at the lowest possible 
cost. This is known as Valmora Sanatorium. Over four hundred 
employees of these concerns, or members of their families, have received 
treatment at Valmora during the last nine years and the results have 
been most excellent. This was one of the first sanatoria to adopt 
graduated exercise, in the form of work, for its patients. (See Fig. 64.) 

In 1915 the Ford Motor Company introduced this plan of giving 
free sanatorium care to every tuberculous employee. It has even 
extended this policy to the tuberculous applicant for work. A sana- 
torium near Detroit has been developed where these employees are 
sent until the disease is arrested. They then return to the plant, are 
put to work in some outside occupation and are carefully supervised 
by the medical staff. Most of these cases have been placed on the 
work of salvaging the scrap iron which previously was sold as junk. 
This salvaging process, done by salvaged employees, netted this 
concern a profit of $78,000 in one year. Large dividends from a simple 
humanitarian effort! The profit to these employees and their families 
cannot be shown in dollars and cents. (See Fig. 65.) 




THE TUBERCULOUS EMPLOYEE 



455 




456 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

The Jewish Tuberculous Association of New York City has 
introduced an entirely new idea into the treatment of this disease. 
After years' of combating tuberculosis among the Jewish people of New 
York they were impressed with the great economic waste which fol- 
lowed in the wake of this disease. During the perod of sanatorium 
care it was necessary to give large sums of money to maintain the 
family while the bread winner was absent. After his discharge from 
treatment months and often years elapsed before he could support 
his family. Investigation showed that most of these patients on 




FIG. 65. Tuberculous employees at work. (Courtesy of Ford Co.) 

discharge from sanatoria were warned against returning to inside 
employment. They sought work on farms, as teamsters and at other 
outside occupations, positions for which they were untrained and 
physically unfitted. Jobs were frequently changed because they were 
not able to do the work. Exposure to the elements, worry and other 
undermining conditions caused a high percentage of recurrences. 

In order to overcome this economic waste and unnecessary loss 
of human life this Association, through the magnificent efforts of Mr. 
Stein and Mr. Hockhauser, developed a postsanatorium factory. 
This factory is located in Hoboken, and is engaged in the manufacture 
of garments. Here under the best hygienic conditions, and constantly 
supervised by a competent doctor, over two hundred tuberculous 
employees have been given graduated work until they were finally 






THE TUBERCULOUS EMPLOYEE 



457 



able to return to full time employment when they graduated from 
the factory. Tinsmiths, clerks, jewelers, junk men and many others 
have learned to be garment makers and are drawing larger salaries 
now than they made previous to their sickness. This factory has 
demonstrated that the garment industry when properly conducted is 
not a hazardous occupation predisposing to lung trouble. (See Figs. 
66 and 67.) 

The summary and chart taken from a paper by Mr. Hockhauser 
on this experiment is one of the most enlightening contributions 
to all tuberculosis literature. 




^^i^BHBBH^B^BHHHMMBIHHHLjCHMBMHHHMH^^^l^^HI^BHHBBBBl^H^M^Ban^^E^BMBBHM^^nMB^B 

FiQ. 66. Model garment factory for tuberculous employees. (Courtesy Jewish 

tuberculous Association.') 

"An investigation in 1912 reported a waste of 45 per cent, due to 
relapse of sanatoria patients six months to one year after discharge. 
In a three year experiment we have reduced it from 45 per cent, to 15 
per cent. 

"The sanatorium treatment is but a part a large part it is true 
of the treatment of the tuberculous. 

"After-care of the patient in his home is vital to any scheme which 
tries to conserve the gains made in the sanatorium and to protect the 
family from infection. 

"Carefully selected patients can be treated at home with as good 
results as at a sanatorium. Some patients improve at home and at 
work even though they do not do well at an institution. 



458 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



"To provide 'industrial convalescence' or a scheme of gradually 
returning patients to ordinary economic life we maintain a special 
factory where the doctor is the ' boss. ' 

"Over 90 per cent, of the families of the patients at the factory were 
under the care of relief agencies. Of 58 who received relief from three 
months to five years 17 are partially self-supporting and 41 are entirely 
self-supporting. Patients, whose families were granted from $40 to 
a month by charities and relief agencies, are now earning from 
to $160 a month. 




FIG. 67. Dining room in model garment factory for tuberculous employees. 

"Periodic examination of the patient is the price of keeping the 
tuberculous at work. The doctor must know his patients to guard 
against the malingerer or the patient too anxious to work to be truthful. 

Generous constructive care and supervision can cure dependency 
as well as tuberculosis. " 

All surgeons in industry as well as the tuberculosis worker have 
been impressed with this great waste of human energy as well as of 
human life and its resulting financial losses to the patient, his family 
and the state, which has been connected with the treatment of 4 
tuberculous people. Not only is it essential for the states to provide 
adequate Sanatoria care for all tuberculous but it should see that these 
people are placed in proper employment and carefully supervised 
after their treatment ceases. The prevention of recurrences is equally 
as essential as the cure. 






THE TUBERCULOUS EMPLOYEE 



459 







00 * CO I-H 1-1 CO <M 


>> 




5? 


us * 6 f IH 


S 






C^ TJ ' 


45 




c 


^H O 




2 




11 


p op 


co *n ,__( oo co ^ in ^ 


0> 




S 


r-1 (M 




o 




it 


o^P 

o> jn 


- ; ; ^ ^ ^<N- S 


s 

o 




M * 





.... . . . (N . . 


1> 












M 




OS ' 




S3 




M 


o 






M 


B& 






n3 


8 


~ ^ T. 


oo 


1-1 <N CO 


o3 










O 


^ 


>> ^-S 


OS 




JS 




H 


a 

o 




a 




|? 


OS 


<^ (M 


o> 
c 




- QO 


o 








c C 






03 




T s 


Sui 




a 




SI 


05^ 




o> 




^_>. 


o m 




03 

a 




5 


g 


aj;;;;2!;2; ^ ; <M 


(M 




ffi & 


OJ 


" "e "e -^3 


* 




A^tAiiay 


i .... 1 . . | -!_,. 


O 

a 

o 






CO ^ ^ (N 

^ 




o 




^ S2 




1 

o 
o 


9AI^OBUJ 


S ' o of 
o 48 __ _ -JS __ Q 


treatec 






c 




^ vS 03 





i 


ddy 


^Tt<<iDT-i ;^io ; *a <o ^ 10 MS : ^ 




^ 




<1 <; 


10 












ojno -ddy 


d CO . t < CD 










-^ -u> 






(M (N 





"o < 






^3 -w 


4> c] 




lOlOrHl-H C^l 1 ,-lt^.i-i O 


o3 Q) 




1-1 


O rH Tj< 


M -2 


GO 





co in : : cc ; 1-1 T-I Tt< ; J^ 


|-S 


auioq 


rH - r ( i I IN - IQ 


O oJ 


^T3 p9)139J} 90nlg 




03 t~- 






C '-' 






flj ^ 


uinuo^uBS 


t> O 1 I 1 1 ^ 1 1 CD T)* Ci T 1 Tf 


P 


SUIABOJ aauig 


i i i i in 


OS 0> 




CO 

' fi .' 


GO ^3 




2 2 2 


C o 




c*^ o3g aj Bcoo3 


.2* r 






o3 




^> ^ 2 ^_ a> >oj'* 2 


a o 




3o3* P ^ ^ 'S ^> * 


_ Q) 




jEj'S.^:^ x ^ -2^ 


"c -^ 




^^O s. *^O *J o+J* 1 


03 




-*^ ^3 "*"* "*~* O ^ O -2 "*^ 


5 IB 




HHfSo HH O HOH 


o 

a 



460 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



The establishing therefore of industries in certain centers where 
these ex-sanatoria patients could be sent for graduated employment 
under proper medical supervision is a duty which should no longer 
be neglected. Those states which are providing sanatoria for the 
tuberculous should at once provide these state industries where they 
can work until such time as it is safe for them to return to private 
employment (F g. 68). 

It is a fallacy to recommend outdoor employment such as farming 
for all arrested or apparently cured tuberculous patients. Many of 




FIG. 68. Every state should provide these model factories for the tuberculous in 
connection with the state sanatoria. 

these are not vocationally trained or physically fit for the strenuous out- 
side work and to others it is abhorrent. Experience in caring for the 
tuberculous employee has proven that the majority of these can 
return to their former occupations providing there are no known 
hazards connected with it. 

Society owes an everlasting debt of gratitude to those industries 
which have provided the means of Prevention, Discovery and Treat- 
ment of the Tuberculous Employees. 



CHAPTER XXX 

RECLAIMING THE TUBERCULOUS SOLDIER FROM 
THE MILITARY AND INDUSTRIAL ARMIES 

The army is a great military industry made necessary by the pres- 
ent struggle of right against might. Its medical problems are very 
similar to those found in the industrial army. The solution of these 
problems for the soldier is destined to carry over into civilian life. 
Therefore, in considering the reclamation of the tuberculous at this 
time it is only logical to deal with the entire man power in both armies. 

The war has brought to public attention a great many disabilities 
which overtake the soldier as the result of military service. Some of 
these disabilities and our efforts to overcome them are in the lime- 
light more than others. Thus, the reconstruction of the badly crip- 
pled, the deformed, and those suffering severe facial disfigurations, 
is wonderful and quite spectacular to the general public; the retrain-' 
ing of the limbless and of the blind likewise appeals to our minds and 
imaginations. But just as wonderful work is being done for those 
soldiers disabled because of disease and the number of these far exceeds 
those who are crippled or blinded. 

These same disabilities existed before the war, but the busy pub- 
lic paid very little attention to them except when they or their friends 
were the victims. 

But our efforts to prevent disease among the soldiers, and when 
disabilities overtake them, to reconstruct, and when necessary retrain 
them for a life of usefulness, are gradually awakening the public con- 
science to the need for the same efforts among the civilian disabled. 

The disease which is causing the most disability among the sol- 
diers of all the nations is tuberculosis. We have not been in the war a 
sufficient time to realize the terrible ravages of this disease among 
the military and civilian forces alike, but the experience of our allies is 
sufficient warning to point out the importance of our preparing to 
combat tuberculosis and its complications. 

It is difficult to obtain exact statistics concerning the incidence of 
tuberculosis in the warring nations. A conservative estimate re- 
cently made by one of our greatest tuberculosis experts, Dr. Briggs, 
who studied conditions at first hand in Europe, showed that there are 
at least 500,000 active cases of tuberculosis in France. England 

461 



462 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

shows an increase of 16 per cent, in the death rate from pulmonary 
tuberculosis as compared with the rate of 1914. 

The Canadian forces have already sent 2500 cases of tuberculosis 
back to the sanatoria in Canada for treatment. Fifty per cent, of 
these were discovered among the soldiers before they had been sent 
overseas. 

Many cases of tuberculosis have been discovered among our own 
soldiers. The epidemics of measles, grip and pneumonia which have 
been so prevalent throughout the cantonments, will increase the tuber- 
culosis rate materially. 

In the light of the above facts and figures it is imperative that the 
plans of the medical department of the army be formed along three 
distinct lines: prevention, reclaiming, and coordination with civilian 
plans. 

As a result of the work of the National Tuberculosis Association 
during the last fifteen years the national conscience has been stirred, 
the public has been educated to means of prevention and cure of tuber- 
culosis, and the soil has been generally prepared. A great harvest 
of results awaits the reapers. 

In addition to this publicity and missionary work almost every 
large city of the country now has its tuberculosis institutes, many 
county institutes have been formed and much valuable machinery 
in the way of medical experts and visiting nurses has been established 
for the purpose of fighting this disease. A number of municipal and 
state sanatoria have been erected. A few states like Massachusetts 
have made elaborate plans for a sanatorium in practically every 
county or group of counties and have many of these in operation. 
Large appropriations by some of the states have been made. 

Meanwhile, the medical profession has made great advances in 
the treatment of this disease. No longer is it considered fatal. No 
longer do we think it necessary to send the tuberculous patient out 
west or far from home in order to accomplish a cure. Homesickness 
and want have ceased to be the great allies of Death in* treating 
these cases. 

Climatic treatment, many different drugs and serums, and other 
specifics have come and gone during these years. Theories as to 
modes of infection and as to the spreading of infection have been 
advanced and discarded, and some remain for the proverbial bone 
of contention. Absolute rest for months has been advocated by 
some, and early exercise and work is the criterion of others as 
adjuncts to various forms of treatment. 

But a few sound, common sense principles have been evolved and 
have withstood the acid test of time and criticism, and will remain 
as the fundamentals in our crusade against this disease. These are: 



RECLAIMING THE TUBERCULOUS SOLDIER 463 

1. Prevention. 

(a) By combating unsanitary home and working conditions, 

child labor, inadequate food, alcoholism, and venereal 

diseases. 
(&) By preventing the spread of the disease from one infected 

person to another, 
(c) By active and thorough treatment of those respiratory 

diseases predisposing to tuberculosis. 

2. Diagnosis. 

(a) The importance of an early diagnosis. 

(6) The value of the periodical medical examination as a 

means of early diagnosis, 
(c) The importance of medical examination of other members 

of the family when a case is discovered. 

3. Treatment. 

(a) The instituting of early sanatorium treatment. 
(6) The value of isolation of the case from free intercourse 
with society. 

(c) The established routine of Rest, Fresh Air, Proper Diet 
combined with graduated exercise later on. 

(d) The importance of supervision of the apparently cured case 
for many years. 

All of these things with many additional details the tuberculosis 
expert and his lay and nurse assistants do to-day. The treatment 
laps over into the social and economic field. Thus, the tuberculosis 
institutes, and other groups of workers in this field, have banded to- 
gether to efficiently handle the medical, social and economic aspects 
of this disease. They treat not only the individual but society at 
large. 

A wonderful work has been accomplished by these organizations 
all over the country but the surface has only been scratched. Their 
cases have come to them voluntarily or been referred by charitable 
organizations. The weakness of the system has been the absence 
of some form of governmental control federal and state. 

The discovery of approximately two hundred thousand cases of 
tuberculosis among the first ten million men between twenty-one and 
thirty-one examined for the draft army showed the enormity of the 
task before us. Thousands upon thousands of young men have been 
thrown back into civilian life suffering from tuberculosis. Some 
have been referred to the proper authorities for treatment, but many 
remain loose in society to combat the disease according to their 
individual desires sources of infection to their fellowmen. What 
an economic waste of man-power in this day when man-power is at 
such a premium. 



464 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

Therefore, the first contact that should be established and cemented 
most firmly between the military and civilian forces is apparent 
the reporting of every man rejected from the army because of tuberculosis 
to an authorized civilian agency. 

This agency must provide in every state suitable sanatoria and 
proper medical attention for the treatment of these cases until cured. 
The state should make such a course of -treatment compulsory. The 
mistake of our allies in allowing them to go untreated, spreading 
the infection to others, must not be repeated by us. Such a mistake 
has already been made but it is not too late for correction. 

For years we have dreamed of a nation striving constantly to 
prevent tuberculosis. We have dreamed further of an elaborate 
system, of sanatoria scattered throughout the nation for the cure 
of these cases. To-day the demand for the conservation of our 
man-power makes it absolutely essential that our dreams become 
realities. 

This is a national emergency and all things looking to the winning 
of this war, either by sacrifice or by saving, can be established now. 
This is the time to get together and do it. 

All tuberculosis associations should cooperate with the United 
States Public Health Service, the National Defense Council, the 
American Red Cross, the organized medical profession, and all other 
agencies capable of contributing to the effort, and institute a great 
drive against tuberculosis now rather than two years hence when the 
increased number of cases will force cognizance of conditions as it has 
done in France and England. 

There is still another civilian force that has been doing excellent 
work in the tuberculosis field a force that has made itself felt more 
and more during the last decade in both the medical and economic 
world. I refer to the industrial physicians and surgeons of the country. 
Not the oldtime company doctor who constantly thought of the 
interests of the employer alone, contenting himself with the emergency 
surgery that arose in the plant, but the new industrial medical man 
who speaks the language of preventive medicine and preventive 
surgery, who is the employees' physician, and who has become a 
great efficiency expert for the employer by constantly thinking of the 
interest of the employee. 

About ten years ago the medical examination of employees became 
a fixture in a few industries. Gradually it became apparent that for 
the protection of the old working force and for the new workmen 
alike the examination of all applicants for work must be included in 
this system of health supervision. 

Whereas, ten years ago only three or four industries in the country 
had established some system of health supervision, the foundation 






RECLAIMING THE TUBERCULOUS SOLDIER 465 

of which is the medical examination at stated intervals, to-day we 
see a very comprehensive and thorough system in operation in at 
least one hundred industries and approximately five hundred concerns 
have inaugurated some health system. 

It is impossible to estimate the results of the work of these 
surgeons upon the health of the industrial workers of the land. 
Neither can we say to what extent the death rate from both 
accidents and disease has been reduced by their efforts. But that 
the results have been immense is a certainty. 

I have obtained the figures from ten industries where the best 
form of Industrial Medicine and Surgery is practised, where the 
medical examinations are thorough and complete and where careful 
statistics of results are kept. These figures show that last year 
104,066 employees were given medical examinations; that during 
the last five years 276,420 employees have been examined thoroughly. 
Some of these industries have examined their workers only during 
the last year, while others have had the system in force for the 
entire five years. 

During these five years examinations have resulted in the dis- 
covery of 4423 cases of tuberculosis, or 1.6 per cent, of all examined 
had the disease. Approximately one-third of these were cared for 
by the industries where they were employed. 

With a hundred industries carrying on a comprehensive system 
of Industrial medicine to-day it is conceivable that during the next 
five years 27,642,000 physical examinations of employees may be 
made and 442,300 cases of tuberculosis discovered. 

If the states will only provide adequate sanatoria care for these 
cases, the greatest advance will be made in eradicating this greatest 
plague of humanity. 

The Industrial Surgeons' Committee of the Council of National 
Defense has proposed a program for the complete supervision of health 
of the industrial army during this crisis through which the nation 
is now passing. Recognizing that the industrial army is of equal 
importance to the military army in winning the war, this committee 
is endeavoring to devote its energies to keeping the standard of 
health at the highest level among all workers in the industries neces- 
sary to the continuance of the war in order to keep production up 
to the highest mark. 

Healthful workers are as essential to production as the most effect- 
ive machinery both must be supervised. To attain these results 
the committee proposes to establish in all industries the following 
program : 

1. Supervision of physical condition of employees by medical 
examinations. 

30 



46G INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

2. Industrial sanitation. 

3. Sanitary home conditions. 

4. Prevention of disease. 

5. Prevention of accidents. 

6. Early and proper medical and surgical treatment when needed. 
To carry out this program the industries must not be depleted of 

physicians. Other medical men must be persuaded to enter this 
field. By concentrating upon a large group of people in this 
way the doctors can supply the demands of the civilian population 
much more efficiently, which is very desirable at this time when so 
many of our profession are in the army. 

In addition to this force of physicians the committee intends to 
secure the greatest co-operation between the United States Public 
Health Service, the Department of Labor, the state and municipal 
health departments, and all other agencies which must be depended 
upon to do a part of this great work. 

It is hoped, and there is reason to believe, that the federal govern- 
ment will throw its influence behind this movement in order to have 
the war industries at least adopt this program. This is one of the 
greatest war measures that has been undertaken during this national 
emergency. 

With such a system of health supervision established in industries 
throughout the country, millions of people will be given periodical 
medical examinations and thousands of cases of known and unknown 
tuberculosis will be found. Experience in this line of work has proven 
that over 85 per cent, of these cases will still be in the curable stages. 

What will become of these tuberculous Industrial Soldiers? How 
will the civilian forces handle them ? What provisions have the states 
made to adequately treat these cases? How will the Federal Govern- 
ment meet the problem? 

By co-operation and co-ordination the medical department of 
the army and the various civilian agencies can meet this situation. 
God grant that we may arise to our opportunity! 

The immediate problems for the civilian forces are: 

1. Providing in every state several sanatoria where these cases 
can be treated. 

2. Laws making sanatorium treatment compulsory until the 
disease is arrested. 

3. Co-operation with the Industrial program in order to discover 
the tuberculous employees. 

4. Co-operation with the machinery of the army to have the tuber- 
culous draftee referred to the proper civilian authority. 

5. A National program of Health Supervision carried on along 
lines similar to the Food Conservation work, whereby the 



RECLAIMING THE TUBERCULOUS SOLDIER 467 

entire population of the country would be induced to enter into 
a great, common-sense health movement, as a patriotic duty. 
This could be accomplished by an educational campaign which 
has the moral and financial backing of the Federal government. 
The medical examination of everybody could be made a fact, 
and the correction of the diseased conditions would naturally 
follow. 

The present tuberculosis problem has been facing the medical 
department of the army for over a year now. Those found at the 
draft examination with this disease and even many of those discovered 
within three months after induction into the service have been thrown 
back into civilian life. Unfortunately only those cases which were 
found at the examination at the cantonments were referred to civil- 
ian authorities. Some of the states have provided for 'the care of 
these but others have failed to meet the problem. 

The first great advance in the army program was made the first 
of this year (1918) when the Surgeon-General issued an order that all 
cases of tuberculosis found at the cantonments after the men had been 
inducted into the service would hereafter be considered "in line of 
duty." 

This stopped the discharge of many of these cases. Sanatoria 
treatment was offered to all regardless of "line of duty" or not, but 
refusal to accept it meant their discharge. For those in line of duty 
the War Risk Insurance Bureau took up the case and arranged for 
compensation. The treatment was left to the individual's desires 
and arrangements. Any of these line of duty cases could apply for 
treatment in one of the army sanatoria if they so desired. This was 
not generally known by the men, however, and the busy army doc- 
tors did not always take the opportunity of urging sanatorium treat- 
ment to them. In 1918 the War Risk Insurance Bureau through 
the United States Public Health Service arranged for sanatorium care 
for many of these discharged cases. 

About nine months ago (August, 1917), the Division of Physical 
Reconstruction and Rehabilitation of Disabled Soldiers was organized 
in the Surgeon-General's Office. The purpose of this Division was 
to provide the machinery for completing the cure of certain types of 
disabled soldiers returning from overseas and arranging for their 
re-education and vocational training when it was necessary for them 
to learn a new occupation because of the nature of their disability. 

At first it was thought this work would be limited largely to the 
surgical cases, especially orthopedic and severe facial disfigurements. 
Gradually the plans for Physical Reconstruction have unfolded, 
however, until to-day it includes every type of medical or surgical 
case requiring prolonged treatment, and instead of referring only to 



4GS INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

the disabled from overseas, ail cases in this country or from the expe- 
ditionary forces abroad are included in its scope. It is realized now 
that the tuberculous patients will make up a large proportion of those 
needing reconstruction and in many instances vocational retraining. 

In December, 1917, and again in January, 1918, a new policy was 
submitted by the Surgeon-General to the Secretary of War for his 
approval. The Army Regulations provided that when a soldier was 
unfit for full military service he was to be discharged from the Army. 
Medical and surgical treatment was rendered to these men but often 
they were discharged before a cure had been accomplished. 

This new policy, however, provided that in the future no disabled 
soldier should be discharged from the Army until from a physical, func- 
tional and mental standpoint he had been cured as far as it was humanly 
possible. It further provided that the medical department of the 
army should employ all therapeutic adjuncts necessary to attain such 
a result, including physiotherapy, bedside occupations, and curative 
therapy in workshops. 

This policy Was approved by the Secretary of War the first of May, 
1918. 

This will prove to be one of the greatest advances ever made by 
the medical department of the army and is another notable achieve- 
ment of our illustrious chief, General Gorgas. The far reaching re- 
sults of such a policy are only vaguely comprehended by the majority 
of men as yet. It means the death knell of our old soldiers' homes 
where disabled men in the past have been prematurely relegated to 
the scrap heap. 

To complete this process of reclaiming the disabled soldiers Con- 
gress is providing the machinery for their vocational retraining when 
necessary, assistance to complete their educations, replacing in occu- 
pations where they will have as great or a greater earning capacity 
than before they were handicapped and the proper soc al and eco- 
nomic supervision to see that their rehabilitation is completed and so 
remains. This portion of the work will undoubtedly be delegated 
to the Federal Board for Vocational Education after the man is dis- 
charged from the army. Co-operation between this civilian agency 
and the medical department of the army will enable much of this 
vocational training to begin during the final stages of the man's 
convalescence. 

Already the War Risk Insurance Act has been placed in operation 
and it provides excellent compensation for these men a compen- 
sation based upon a debt which the nation rightfully owes her dis- 
abled soldiers and not given to them as a charity. No matter how 
proficient these men become as the result of vocational training, this 
compensation will not be reduced. 






RECLAIMING THE TUBERCULOUS SOLDIER 469 

The tuberculous soldier is included in this far reaching plan as well 
as all other types of disabilities. Sanatoria are being established in 
various parts of the country where these tuberculous soldiers can be 
sent and retained until cured. The order has already gone forth mak- 
ing it compulsory to send all cases of tuberculosis to these sanatoria, 
both from the home and expeditionary forces before they are dis- 
charged. Some will demand their discharge on arriving at the sana- 
torium and will bring political influence to bear to secure it. But 
the majority will be subtly persuaded to remain until their disease 
is apparently cured. The prolonged course of treatment necessary 
for these men will enable many of them to be vocationally trained 
for better positions in life before they are discharged. 

Now that the army has provided this improved arrangement for 
the tuberculous soldier it behooves the civilian forces to make equally 
elaborate preparations for the physical reconstruction and rehabili- 
tation of the tuberculous industrial soldier and in fact for all civilian 
tuberculous patients. This can only be accomplished by federal and 
state provisions for the discovery of these patients and the necessary 
sanatoria for their treatment. Combined with this must be a nation- 
wide educational campaign to arouse public opinion in favor of such 
a program. 

The treatment of both the military and civilian tuberculous should 
be for the combined purpose of accomplishing their complete physical 
and mental cure. Instead of returning them to their communities 
as hospitalized individuals they should be returned as more useful 
economic units of society. This can be attained by introducing 
curative work and vocational training into the routine sanatorium 
treatment. 

The following outline is a suggested plan for the physical recon- 
struction and rehabilitation of the tuberculous from both the mili- 
tary and industrial armies. 

In reclaiming those in the military and industrial armies who have 
contracted tuberculosis and in securing their complete rehabilitation, 
the following requirements must be considered : 

I. The best medical treatment with certain adjuncts to secure 
the most rapid recovery. 

II. Certain occupations in connection with this treatment, to 
prevent hospitalization and to refit for employment. 

III. Suitable employment after the disease is arrested or apparently 
cured, combined with proper medical supervision 

I. The best medical treatment with certain adjuncts to secure the 
most rapid recovery. 
A. Prevention. 

1. By periodical physical examination to discover early 
signs of the threatened disease. 



470 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

2. By prompt and proper medical care of all colds, grippe, 
bronchitis, pneumonia, and other 'respiratory diseases. 

3. By proper care of certain complications predisposing to 
tuberculosis which remain after these act ve diseases 
are cured. For instance, pleurisy following grippe and 
pneumonia, or the small patches of unresolved pneumonia 
following the latter disease predispose to tuberculosis. 

B. Sanatoria Care, Medical Treatment and Adjuncts. 

1. When tuberculosis develops, the case should be sent to 
a sanatorium at once. 

2. The medical care should be under specialists in tuber- 
culosis work. 

3. During the active stage when temperature, weakness, 
and aggravated symptoms demand absolute rest in bed, 
the men should be entertained, but all mental and physical 
work should be barred. 

4. Light mental and physical work can become an adjunct 
to the medical treatment when the patient reaches the 
stage of treatment which permits his sitting up in bed 
or spending a few hours in a reclining chair on the porch. 

a. Purposes : 

1. To stimulate hope and desire for recovery. 

2. To occupy patient's mind, to remove his thoughts 
from his disease, and all outside worries. Encour- 
aging reports from home that his family is all right 
and being properly cared for are essential to help 
put patient in proper mental attitude. 

3. To gradually prepare him for a more elaborate course 
of study and work as soon as his condition warrants. 

b. Types of Mental and Physical Work: 

1. These must be arranged after a careful study of each 
individual with a view of accomplishing the purpose 
desired. 

2. The studies should be arranged along the lines of the 
man's former occupation, with the idea of making 
him a better employee or employer. For instance, 
if a farmer, his studies should be along the lines 
of agriculture. If he were a dry goods clerk, his 
studies should be the '' textile industries," the 
''manufacture of silks and dress goods, " "business 
management," "human engineering," etc. 

3. Most cured tuberculous cases can return to their 
former occupations, except those employed in dusty 
work, as coal miners, certain types of packers, etc.; 



KECLAIMING THE TUBERCULOUS SOLDIER 471 

in occupations with disease hazards, as lead workers, 
phosphorus workers, etc.; in jobs with great ex- 
posure to elements, combined with heavy work, 
as teamsters. For these there must be training in 
new occupations. Here again the individual equa- 
tion must be carefully studied. After the man 
has decided what line of work he intends to follow, 
his studies should be along that line. 

4. Light occupations should be provided for these bed 
and chair patients as soon as their conditions 
warrant. (1) Embroidery, pottery, light jewelry, 
and the usual arts and crafts work commonly 
employed heretofore are not practical nor appeal- 
ing to the average man. They may well be used 
for the female patients. (2) Curative work should 
always be made of the most .practical character. 

5. Examples of light work: 

(a) Knitting socks, wristlets, sweaters, etc., not by 
hand, but on the light machines now provided 
for this purpose. 

(6) Making dressings for hospitals. 

(c) Making various kinds of splints. 

(d) Wrapping armatures. Arrangements can be 
made with nearby electrical concerns to have this 
done by piece-work. 

(e) Sign painting. 

(/) Typewriting and learning shorthand. 
(g) Toy making by hand. 
(h) Book binding 

(i) Careful analysis of light occupations will reveal 
many more with a practical trend. 

6. Moving pictures, lectures, and other forms of enter- 
tainment, both amusing and instructive, must be 
combined with this medical, mental and occupa- 
tional therapy, as a definite part of the cure. 

II. Various studies, heavier and more continuous occupations, and 
retraining for work. 

After the patient's disease becomes quiescent and his temperature 
remains normal, and his strength returns; and in the opinion of the 
physician the patient can have a certain number of hours of exercise 
per day, his course of study can be increased and he can be permitted 
to do heavier work. 

When necessary to retrain for new occupations, this can now begin. 

The doctor must at all times decide the number of hours of study 



472 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

and work which it is advisable for the patient to pursue. This must 
be increased and decreased according to the patient's daily condition. 

A. Purposes: 

1. Same as purposes for lighter occupations and study, plus. 

2. To prevent laziness, dependence, and hospitalizatiori so 
prevalent in all sanatorium treatment. 

3. To refit for employment in his old or a better posi- 
tion than he had previous to the war. 

4. To increase productivity and earning capacity. 

B. Types of Study and Work: 

1. His studies started during his earlier days can be con- 
tinued, increased, and supplemented by classroom work 
and by special lectures and note-taking. 

Lectures in almost any line of study can be procured 
gratis from our large industrial establishments. 

2. His work can now be increased to give productivity and 
wages; and thus develop a sense of independence and 
usefulness. 

3. Examples of occupations: 

a. Carpentry. 

b. Mechanics especially acetylene welding, lighter motor 
mechanics, inspector work, as of small shells, and other 
lines, especially valuable for war industries. 

c. Agriculture bee husbandry, poultry raising, stock rais- 
ing, gardening, and lines suitable to, those who were 
farmers and to the few suitable cases who will be re- 
trained for farming. 

Every sanatorium should have its own poultry yards, 
bee hives, and dairy, and these can be utilized for 
teaching purposes. 

d. Tailoring this work is especially fitted as a form of 
occupation for the tuberculous when he can first begin 
to return to work. It is not heavy, can be performed 
in airy rooms, is done by machines, for the most part 
easily manipulated, and pays good wages. Every 
sanatorium could make suits and uniforms for our 
soldiers and sailors, such as are being made by the 
factory in New York which is run by 150 arrested 
tuberculous cases. 

e. Shoe repairing: Old shoes from the army could be sent 
here for repair, which would give productivity and 
wages. 

/. Commercial work should be provided. 

g. Every occupation represented by a patient should be 



RECLAIMING THE TUBERCULOUS SOLDIER 473 

represented in some way at the sanatorium to improve 
the patient along his line of work. 

h. The idea that all tuberculous cases after leaving a 
sanatorium must return only to outside work is er- 
roneous. With very few exceptions they can return 
to their old employment. Therefore, our idea should be 
to improve their condition by education, by a broader 
insight into then- work, and fitting them to advance 
into better positions. 

III. Suitable employment after the disease is arrested or apparently 
cured combined with proper medical supervision. 

A. No tuberculous patient should be discharged from a sana- 
torium until the disease is arrested or apparently cured. 
In some cases this may mean two years or more of sana- 
torium treatment. However, if he is discharged before 
this goal is obtained, the benefit of his sanatorium treatment 
may be lost. Exceptions may have to be made to this rule, 
but as a general principle this standard should be adhered 
to. In some cases arrangements for suitable work under 
medical supervision can be made, thus allowing the cure to 
continue while the patient is earning part or all of his liv- 
ing. State industries should be established for this purpose 
in connection with state sanatoria. 

B. These men should be placed at work under the best sanitary 
conditions possible. If their old jobs were in unsanitary 
plants, sweat-shops, etc., similar jobs should be secured 
for them in suitable working places. 

C. Definite arrangements should be made whereby these 
patients will have medical supervision and periodical ex- 
aminations, in order to make sure that their disease remains 
arrested and continues into a permanent cure. 

The effective plans for the salvaging of the tuberculous from the 
military army should awaken us to the immediate need of reclaiming 
the tuberculous from the industrial army and from the entire civilian 
population. If we arise to our obligation and strive to conserve our 
manpower in this period of national emergency, the result will be one 
of the greatest and most beneficial by-products of this terrible war. 



PART IV 
INDUSTRIAL SURGERY 

CHAPTER XXXI 

THE SURGICAL DISPENSARY, STAFF AND EQUIP- 
MENT; PREVENTIVE SURGERY 

The physician engaged in accident surgery for an industry is 
naturally trained, by the very character of the work, to view every 
case from its economic standpoint. An accident occurs, and at once 
he plans the subsequent treatment with four fundamental principles 
in mind: 

1. How to aid recovery the quickest. 

2. How to prevent permanent disability. 

3. How to avoid a fatal termination of the case. 

4. How to prevent a recurrence of the accident. 

The welfare of the patient, the protection of the other employees, 
and the interests of the employer, all demand the careful- con- 
sideration of these principles. 

Unfortunately such a conception of accident surgery did not 
obtain until of recent years. Like the man in Robert Burdette's 
lecture, "Acres of Diamonds," our best surgeons were seeking the 
newer and rarer conditions in other fields while the real, constructive 
surgery, ever present in their midst, as the result of accidents, was 
more or less neglected. 

But more and more during the last ten years expert surgeons have 
been attracted to this field of industrial surgery and their writings 
and teachings are awakening the profession to its duty in regard to the 
careful treatment of the victims of accidents. With the enactment 
of compensation laws greater demands have been placed on the surgeon 
by industry, by the employees, and by the legal profession. He is 
frequently forced to give a prognosis of the expected results and 
occasionally the line of treatment adopted by him is reviewed and 
criticised by others before the compensation board. Not only must 
the injured part be cured, but it must be functionally restored so 
that the patient can again become a productive unit. If such a result 

475 



476 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

is not obtained, then a very definite reason for the failure is often 
demanded by these lay forces. 

These facts have caused all surgeons, and especially those engaged 
in industrial surgery, to recognize more fully their responsibility toward 
the accident cases. They are thinking less of the surgical end-result 
and more in terms of the economic end-result. 

Industrial surgery consists in the prevention and treatment of all 
injuries, the result of accidents, arising in the course of employment. 
These are usually divided into minor and major accidents. The 
subject can best be treated under the subheads of: (1) Preventive 
Surgery; (2) First Aid; (3) Emergency Treatment; (4) Subsequent or 
Permanent Treatment. 

Before entering into a discussion of these subheads, consideration 
should be given to the necessary arrangements for the proper care 
of accident cases in industry. 

The Surgical Staff. Industrial surgery, in its best, most complete 
interpretation, is now based on the principle of bringing the surgeon 
to the injured instead of the injured to the surgeon. In other words 
the surgeon must be constantly on the job in industry to render 
immediate and proper treatment to all injured employees. This 
principle is the greatest advance which has been made in accident 
surgery during the last decade. Moorhead, Corwin, Clark, Hudson, 
Farnum, Mock, and other surgeons in industry, and Bloodgood, 
Edward Martin and others, have emphasized this point at every 
opportunity. 

For adequate treatment of injured employees every industry 
should provide the services of a qualified surgeon. The smaller plants 
cannot perhaps afford to keep a surgeon on the premises at all times 
and the best plan for them, therefore, is to combine with others for the 
employment of a surgeon. A central office in the neighborhood of 
several industries, at which a surgeon is always in attendance, affords 
the best solution for these smaller concerns. Well trained assistants 
must be instructed to render the necessary first aid care. 

The large industry, especially if accidents are frequent, should 
have a surgeon near at hand at all times so that prompt care can be 
rendered. Three plans may be adopted to meet the situation, namely: 

1. The doctor should spend a part of each day at the plant dressing 
the minor cases which report to the doctor's office, and caring for the 
injuries that may arise during this period. After two or three hours he 
leaves the plant to visit the major accident cases in their homes or at 
the hospital. He may care for the injured employees in one or two 
other plants by a similar arrangement. He must keep the plant 
posted at all times concerning his whereabouts. An associate must 
be arranged for who can respond to an emergency call when he cannot* 



THE SURGICAL DISPENSARY STAFF 477 

During his absence from the plant a well trained first aid man, or 
preferably a nurse, should be in attendance to render emergency care 
to any injured. This person must develop clear judgment as to when 
to call the surgeon or when to send an employee to his office, or to the 
hospital, to see him. 

This plan is in force in many industries and gives fair results. It 
is indeed, a great improvement over the old method of leaving an 
injured employee without any care until some doctor any doctor 
could be summoned, or until the ambulance could be called and the 
injured party sent to the hospital. 

2. The second plan consists of employing an all time physician who 
jmains constantly at the plant during working hours giving immedi- 

ite emergency treatment to all injured employees and attending to 
the daily dressings of the ambulatory cases. The major accident cases 
are sent to the hospital or to their homes und^r the care of some other 
surgeon. Usually the management arranges with this surgeon to 
treat these major cases, which is preferable, or the injured employee, 
)r his family, chooses the doctor he desires. 

As a rule such company surgeons become expert at emergency care 
but are not qualified to carry the treatment of serious injuries through 
to their completion. 

This plan has been in vogue in many of our large industries for 
years. It has given good results but not the results obtained by plac- 
ing the full responsibility for the best and quickest possible cure on the 
surgeon connected with the industry. 

3. The third plan is more often found in those plants employing 
part time surgeons but it is also applicable, and in use, among the full 
time surgical staffs when two or more doctors are employed. One 
physician, the surgical assistant, is thoroughly trained in emergency 
treatment and the subsequent dressings of all injured employees 
reporting to the plant dispensary. The chief surgeon spends a part 
of his time at the plant supervising the emergency work, as well as all 
the other angles of the industrial medical practices. The remainder of 
his time is spent at the hospital and at the homes of injured employees 
rendering the necessary permanent treatment. 

In the part time staff such a surgeon usually has time to teach and 
develop a private practice. He has two surgical assistants each 
spending a half day at the plant. I always insist on one of these living 
near the plant so that he can quickly be called at night in case of an 
accident. Where a large night force is employed a surgeon should be 
on the job all night. 

This third plan, involving as it does the combination of an experi- 
enced emergency surgeon at the plant at all times, and the supervision 
of all the work and the permanent care of the major accidents by 



478 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

another qualified surgeon, has given the best possible results in indus- 
trial surgery. 

Every industry employing men or women in work where accidents 
are prone to occur should adopt one of these systems. The best plan 
necessitates the employment of good surgeons at all times. Cheap 
surgery usually gives poor results. Employers will find that expert 
surgery, while costing more in the beginning, is by far the cheapest 
method in the long run. Such surgery will reduce law suits, lessen 
compensation, and add greatly to the loyalty and confidence of the 
employees. 

Surgeons employed by industry must become thoroughly imbued 
with the fact that proper treatment rendered immediately after an 




FIG. 69. Surgical room for men. (From Doctor's Office, Sears, Roebuck & Co.) 

accident occurs is one of the greatest principles of preventive surgery, 
surpassed only by the prevention of accidents. They must study the 
local situation so that someone absolutely qualified to give this imme- 
diate treatment is always close at hand. Theirs is one of the most 
responsible positions in the medical profession. 

The surgical nurse is the most valuable assistant the surgeon in 
industry can have. Some employ a male nurse for this position but 
I have found a well trained, carefully uniformed female nurse is a more 
efficient assistant. Her presence, if she is adept, conscientious and 
tactful, adds to the confidence of the employees and increases the 
morale among them when they visit the office. 

This nurse should remain in the plant dispensary continuously 
during the working hours. She should be thoroughly trained in her 
relations to emergency surgery and able to take charge of a case and 
render first aid care until the surgeon arrives if he should be absent 
from the plant. Such nurses become quite skilled in this work and 



THE SURGICAL DISPENSARY STAFF 479 

undoubtedly have saved the lives of employees in more than one 
serious case. 

The nurse sterilizes the dressings and keeps a supply on hand at all 
times. She keeps the instruments sterilized and ready for immediate 
use. She prepares the patients for minor operations performed in the 
plant dispensary and assists at these operations. In fact she is a 
versatile operating room nurse and surgical dispensary nurse combined. 

In one plant dispensary where an average of one hundred injured 
employees received emergency treatment or reported for subsequent 
dressings daily between the hours of 8 A.M. and 12 noon, one emer- 
gency surgeon and two surgical nurses were able to efficiently handle 
this work. Miss Mabel Liddel, one of the pioneer industrial surgical 
nurses of the country, was largely responsible for developing this 
system. 

Just outside the surgical room a girl clerk was stationed. As 
the employees left she collected their passes and recorded on their 
permanent records the penciled notations made on the passes. His- 
tories of new accidents were obtained and recorded in the same way. 
The doctor questioned every new accident case carefully and brought 
out all important points which would help in preventing the recurrence 
of a similar accident. (See Chapter 12 for records of Accident Cases.) 

This clerk kept a tickler system on each employee and if he failed 
to report promptly at the designated hour for his dressing would 
phone to the department and have him sent to the office. Occasion- 
ally it happened that an employee remained at home because of his 
injury without notifying his department or the doctor. This tickler 
system enabled the detection of all such cases. One of the 'surgical 
nurses would call on the absent employee in the afternoon and either 
bring him to the office for treatment or would summon the surgeon 
to his home. This constant watchfulness is necessary to prevent 
complications developing in these accident cases, as employees are 
frequently careless about their dressings or prefer to try some home 
remedy, as a bread and milk poultice, thus adding greatly to the 
danger of infections. 

The Surgical Office. Every plant of sufficient size to warrant 
a doctor's office should set aside one room for the surgical cases. 
It is unsightly, arousing fears in the employees, if the sick and those 
reporting for examinations must witness the dressings of the injured. 
Furthermore such an office should be kept as clean and as aseptic as 
any operating room. This is often difficult where workmen must 
report in their dirty, greasy working clothes, but nevertheless clean- 
liness can be maintained even under these conditions. 

Where women are employed a separate surgical room should be 
provided for them, or if only one room is available, men should 



480 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



be barred while an injured woman employee is receiving her dressing, 
even though it is only an injured finger. As much segregation of 
the sexes in the doctor's office must be maintained as possible. 
The more nearly conditions can be made to correspond to a well 
regulated private office the better, for only in this way can the absolute 
confidence of the employees be secured. 

The office should be well lighted, well ventilated, and kept as 
free from drug and wound odors as possible. The walls should be 
white enameled and the floors made preferably of tile or of one of the 
cement-like preparations so commonly used in hospitals. Cracks and 
other places where dust can collect must be obliterated. The furni- 
ture and equipment should be of white enamel. 




FIG. 70. Surgical dressing room for women. 

. Instruments, especially knives and other terrifying paraphernalia, 
should be kept out of sight. The same is true of bloody or pus- 
saturated dressings which have been removed. These should be thrown 
in a can covered with a lid which can be raised by a foot pedal. When 
a wound which may appear frightful to others is to be dressed the 
office should be cleared of all other patients. Too much attention can- 
not be paid to these details which, if not observed, tend to have a bad 
reaction on the employees. 

The equipment of this office should be simple but adequate. The 
various illustrations show the ideal arrangement in some surgical 
dispensaries in industry. It should consist of: 

1. A stationary wash stand with hot and cold water faucets with 
a foot pedal control. 

2. A stationary foot tub and another for hand or arm baths. 
These facilitate the work greatly as many cases will need a prolonged 
hot bath for some sprain or chronic infected part. 



THE SURGICAL DISPENSARY STAFF 481 

3. At least two basins in a rack should be provided for hand solu- 
tions for the use of the surgeon. 

4. One or more white enameled chairs, depending on the size of 
the room and number of patients accommodated at one time. 

5. One white enameled stool on which the patient can sit while he ' 
rests his arm on a table for hand dressings. 

6. One or more white enameled foot stools of sufficient height to 
facilitate foot dressings. 

7. One white enameled surgical table for the patients who must 
lie down for treatment. This table will often be used for patients 
showing signs of fainting. 

8. One reclining chair, somewhat similar to a dentist's chair, for 
use in eye injuries, especially in removing foreign bodies from the eye. 

9. One small dressing table for use in hand and arm cases. 

10. One white enameled, glass topped table on which instruments, 
jars containing sterile dressings, bandages, medicines and other things 
needed in the dressings of all kinds of cases can be placed. 

11. One instrument cabinet. 

The number and type of instruments must be determined by each 
surgeon according to the local needs. 

All of the above equipment may not be needed in many plant 
dispensaries while others may need a more elaborate equipment. 
This, however, forms an average for most surgical offices. 

Sterilizing Room. As an adjunct to every surgical dispensary 
in industry there should be a well equipped sterilizing room. This 
should consist of at least one large steam sterilizer for the sterilization 
of all dressings and one instrument sterilizer. The rubber gloves 
worn by the surgeon, the basins for solutions, the dressings and in- 
struments and in fact everything coming in contact either directly 
or indirectly with the injured parts should be as scrupulously steril- 
ized as when used in an operation. In a well organized office this 
can be done without any undue loss of time. 

Dressings, Supplies and Bandages. Surgical gauze should be 
used for the dressing of all open wounds. Absorbent cotton which 
is at times applied by some is not suitable because of the difficulty of 
removing this after it has become adherent to a wound. 

I have found the following procedure the most economical and 
most efficient in preparing dressings for at least a hundred cases per 
day. 

1. Surgical gauze is bought by the bolt. 

2. Nurses cut this into different size dressings : 

(a) Small, three layer piece of gauze for finger dressings (1" by 

2"). 
(6) Slightly larger, three layer piece of gauze (2" by 4") for 

31 



482 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

hand dressings, or for small wounds about the head or other 
surface of the body. 

(c) Three layer, folded piece of gauze (4" by 6") for the larger 
wounds. 

(d) Four layer, rolled piece of gauze (4" by 10") suitable for 
encircling the arm or covering considerable surface of the 
body. 

(e) Large hemorrhage pads consisting of cotton covered with 
two layers of gauze folded with edges turned in (6" by 10"). 

(/) Larger' hemorrhage pads (12" by 18") made about two 
inches thick for use in severe crushing wounds or to cover 
a stump where the limb is completely severed. 

3. Each of these dressings is rolled separately in a piece of thin 
paper carefully twisted at either end so that the dressing is completely 
and thoroughly covered. 

4. These are then placed in a small sack the size of a ten pound 
meal bag and put in the sterilizer for one hour. 

5. These sterile dressings as needed are put in large covered glass 
jars kept on the dressing table. In using them the nurse or doctor 
tears off the tissue paper, unrolls or unfolds the dressing without touch- 
ing the portion which goes next to the wound and lays it over the in- 
jured part. All dressings in the first aid kit are similarly prepared. 

Towels, cotton tampons, sponges and similar materials are also 
covered with paper and sterilized. 

Basins are put in cloth bags which are then carefully tied with 
draw-strings and sterilized in the same manner. 

Rubber gloves are rolled in pieces of cloth and sterilized. 

Bandages are among the most expensive items in the dispensary 
if bought already cut in 1", 2", 3", etc., sizes. Very good gauze 
bandages can be obtained in long, solid rolls, wrapped in paper, and 
cut as needed with a knife into the various sizes. Strong cotton band- 
ages are also necessary especially in applying splints. Flannel 
bandages are used frequently about swollen joints or as supports in 
varicose veins of the leg. All of these materials can be bought in bulk 
and the nurses can cut and roll the bandages in the sizes needed. 

Cotton applicators play a very important part in minor surgery 
about an industry. lodin is best applied to surface wounds by 
means of these applicators. Also applicators and a bottle of iodin 
should be placed in every room about the plant so that employees 
can paint iodin on their wounds at once. These applicators are made 
by rolling a small piece of cotton on the end of a toothpick. 

Adhesive plaster is used extensively in dressing injured parts. 
This should be bought in bulk, rolls 14" wide and approximately three 
feet long. The small strip used so commonly to hold bandages in 



THE SURGICAL DISPENSARY STAFF 483 

place, or often to replace bandages, can be cut and stuck to a piece 
of glass the size of a window pane, thus being quickly available for use. 

Employees with minor injuries, not sufficiently serious to prevent 
their working, can have their efficiency greatly increased or diminished 
by the type of dressing that is applied. This is especially true in in- 
juries about the hands. Often one sees a small cut on a finger band- 
aged until the whole hand and wrist are encased. The psychological 
effect of such a dressing on an employee is bad. Therefore the smal- 
lest possible dressing should be applied and a minimum amount of 
bandage used to hold it securely in place. As few joints as possible 
should be restricted by the bandage. 

Wire cages or protective strips of tin are very useful in protecting 
injured fingers and adding to the comfort and efficiency of the em- 
ployee. These are placed next to the sterile dressing and held in 
place by a bandage or adhesive plaster. (See Fig. 71.) 




FIG. 71. Tin strips which act as a protection to the injured finger allowing the em- 
ployee to continue at work. 

Splints of all sizes should be prepared and always ready for im- 
mediate application to all fracture cases. The delay in preparing a 
splint for the immobilization of a fracture is annoying to the patient 
and often shows a lack of efficient management in the office. 

Before leaving this question of dressings the author desires to 
re-enforce what has been said regarding the use of sterile dressings. 
About two years ago he visited five surgical dispensaries in plants and 
five private offices where the doctors attended many minor injury 
cases for insurance companies. In only three of the plants dispen- 
saries and only one of the private offices were sterile dressings used. 
In the others gauze was bought from drug stores in the commercial, 



484 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

so-called sterile, five yard rolls. The doctors would cut off the neces- 
sary amount of gauze needed for the dressing by pulling it out on a 
table and cutting it with unsterile scissors. Perhaps the first piece 
used was sterile but certainly none of the remainder could be. In- 
fections are bound to be more prevalent if these methods are used. 
One doctor never used gauze but simply covered the wound with the 
ordinary commercial bandage. Every surgeon should strive to make 
the minor surgery carried on in industry as ideal, from an aseptic 
standpoint, as the surgery done in our best hospitals. Such methods 
have wonderful educational value in teaching the employees pre- 
vention. 

Sources of Accident Cases. The great bulk of accident surgery 
naturally is derived from injuries received directly as the result of 
occupations or of conditions in the plant. However, many employees 
receive injuries outside the plant or while at home. These outside 
accidents have come to be known as "home accidents" in contradis- 
tinction to those received while at work. 

Major home accidents like serious illnesses are usually treated by 
the family physician or the surgeon he calls in. Often when the visit- 
ing nurse reports neglectful treatment of such cases the plant surgeon 
is forced to take charge. 

But minor home accidents are frequently neglected by the 
employees. They lie around the house for days with a swollen ankle, 
the result of a sprain, or with an infected hand due to some slight 
abrasion, trying home remedies and otherwise temporizing with the 
condition rather than consult a physician. Time lost from these 
slight injuries is excessive. But if the employee knows that he can 
report to the plant dispensary and receive free treatment he usually 
comes to work in order to see the doctor. Pro per treatment can be 
instituted and the case supervised, and many times the employee 
can be assigned to work which will not interfere in his recovery. 

For three years it was the policy of the plant with which the author 
was connected to refer all home accident cases, even the slight in- 
juries, to the family physicians. We limited our care of these cases 
to emergency treatment only. Many who were thus referred failed 
to see a doctor but simply remained away from work until the injured 
part healed. Undue loss of time from work resulted. 

Gradually we began to treat these home accidents when they called 
at the office. More and more of the employees took advantage of 
this until in 1916 there were 4570 home accidents cared for by the 
plant surgeons. Approximately 95 per cent, of this number lost no time 
from work, except that due to reporting to the office for then 1 daily 
dressing. With the old policy at least 50 per cent, of these cases 
would have remained at home, many because it was necessary to go 






THE SU'RGICAL DISPENSARY STAFF 485 

to their family physician for dressings and naturally they would not 
report for work for a part of the day. 

Proof of the value of this system is seen in the following extract from 
the safety engineer's report to the general superintendent: 

"The number of home accidents treated by the hospital has risen 
from 2896 in 1915 to 4570 in 1916, an absolute increase of 57.8 per 
cent., or a relative increase of 32 per cent. The reason that the em- 
ployees are making more use of the hospital in cases of accidents 
occurring outside the plant is due to the more liberal policy of the 
hospital in treating home cases, which was adopted with a view of 
reducing time loss in these cases. That this new policy has produced 
most satisfactory results there is no doubt." 

Occasionally one of these injured cases, for which the concern is in 
no way responsible, will develop complications which adds greatly 
to the expense of continuing this free treatment. However, if the 
surgeon has started free care, when the case seemed only a minor 
affair, he must continue the same policy when it becomes serious. 

The expense connected with the treatment of these minor home 
accidents, even with the occasional serious case arising, is more than 
compensated by the increased efficiency of these employees and the 
diminution in time loss. 

Schedule for Dressings. Much loss of time from work can result 
from lack of system in the reporting of employees to the hospital 
for their dressings. If employees are simply told to "come back to- 
morrow for a dressing" most of them will report the first hour of 
work with the result that the congestion in the office interferes greatly 
in the surgeon's work and unnecessary delay in treatment. To 
avoid this a small hospital card, or pass, can be given to each in- 
jured case on which the date and hour for the next dressing is marked 
by the nurse at each visit. By our system ten patients reported 
every twenty minutes. 

PREVENTIVE SURGERY 

Preventive surgery is a direct outgrowth of human maintenance 
in industry. It is still a new science in the medical field but the time 
is coming when it will receive the same recognition as is now allotted 
to preventive medicine. In practical operation in industry it in- 
cludes the following: 

1. The prevention of accidents. 

2. The prevention of complications when accidents occur. 

3. The prevention of undue loss of time. 

4. The prevention of permanent loss of function. 

5. The prevention of threatened illnesses, premature breakdowns, 
lowered efficiency, etc., by adopting certain surgical procedures. 



486 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

The prevention of accidents has been thoroughly dealt with in 
Chapters XXI and XXII. The following letter written by the author, 
early in his career as a plant surgeon, to the general superintendent 
of an industry will illustrate some of the preventive methods success- 
fully adopted since then by this and many other concerns. Surgeons 
entering this new field of medicine will find that the recommendations 
submitted in a memorandum such as this do not always receive the 
prompt approval of the management, but patience and perseverance 
will usually result in the final adoption of these methods. 

"Mr. : Safety first appliances installed last year prevented 

a great number of accidents. An excellent example is afforded by the 
reduction of accidents due to conveyors. In 1912 there were 101 
accidents directly due to the new conveyors, while last year only 
four accidents could be traced to this cause. 

"A careful study of all the machines and processes in the plant 
would reveal many other places where safety appliances would reduce 
the accident rate. While the medical staff and the safety engi- 
neer are constantly striving to anticipate accidents by installing these 
appliances, yet the man on the job is in the best position to perceive 
hazardous conditions, especially if he is trained until he is imbued 
with the spirit of prevention. 

"I wish to recommend that the doctors, the safety engineer, the 
management and all the employees be urged this year to put forth a 
great effort to prevent both major and minor accidents and compli- 
cations, especially infections. 

"The first step in this direction is to appoint an accident prevention 
man in every department or two or three such men in the larger 
departments. Their duties would be: 

"1. To report the need of any new safety appliances to the Safety 
Engineer. Quite often the necessity for some safety appliance is not 
recognized until after a serious accident has occurred. This prevention 
man would constantly study conditions in order to foresee such a need. 

"2. To study the causes of minor accidents and endeavor at all 
times to remove these. For example this man would soon develop 
the habit, and spread it to others, of picking up every loose nail from 
the floor or of removing obstructions which might cause falls. 

"3. To see that every employee who receives an injury, no matter 
how slight, paints it at once with iodin and then reports to the doctor. 

"4. To prevent employees from rendering first aid to one another, 
as for example the removing of foreign particles from the eye or extract- 
ing slivers. 

"5. To receive reports from the doctor concerning in j ured employees 
who fail to report at once, or concerning accidents in his department 
which apparently could have been prevented. 



THE SURGICAL DISPENSARY STAFF 487 

"6. To receive periodical instructions from the safety engineer and 
from the doctors on all matters of prevention and on certain first aid 
methods which will make them competent to render the same if 
occasion arises. 

"The number of safety appliances which have been installed follow- 
ing suggestions from the employees demonstrate how valuable these 
men can be in this respect. 

"Last year 610 cases of infection developed after injuries. Twelve, 
or 1.9 per cent., of these used iodin and reported to the doctor at 
once. Twenty-four, or 3.9 per cent., reported at once without using 
iodin. 

"These thirty-six cases were only slightly infected and none of 
them required opening nor lost time from work. The remaining 
574 cases reported from one day to two weeks after receiving their 
injuries; 520 of these required opening and all of them lost time 
from work, with an additional decrease in their efficiency while working 
with a finger or hand bandaged. Of this number 42 per cent, 
used iodin sometime later, while 52 per cent, failed to use it at 
all. From our past experience we know that the immediate use of 
iodin and then reporting to the doctor at once would have reduced 
this number of infections at least 90 per cent. An alert prevention 
man in the department would be one of the best means of training 
all employees to observe these rules. 

"It is a common practice for some man to try to remove a sliver 
from a fellow employee's hand. Often the part is so lacerated that 
an entrance for infection is the result; or only a part of the sliver is 
removed, the remainder being discovered a few days later when the 
member becomes infected. Great damage is often done to the eye 
by similar attempts to render first aid by an employee. Our preven- 
tion man could forestall these misdirected efforts. 

"Our figures are very striking in regard to wounds from splinters. 
Two hundred and eighty employees reported to the doctor on account 
of sliver wounds last year. One hundred and twelve, or 40 per cent., 
of these reported late with the part infected. All had either success- 
fully or otherwise endeavored to remove the splinter themselves or 
the same effort had been made by a fellow employee or some member 
of the patient's family. None of the cases reporting early to the 
doctor, who removed the splinter under aseptic precautions, become 
infected. 

"Occasionally a very serious accident occurs where first aid must 
be rendered at once in the department. In those departments where 
these major accidents are liable to occur we have placed first aid kits 
and two men have been carefully instructed by the doctor in the various 
first aid methods. This system should be extended so that the 



488 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

prevention man in every department is a thoroughly trained first 
aid expert. These serious accidents may occur in the most unex- 
pected places. 

"Each prevention man should have at least two understudies who 
can in turn take charge of this prevention work if occasion arises. 
Such a system would give us missionaries who would spread the spirit 
of prevention throughout the working force. 

"I would further recommend that each department be given a rating 
according to their percentage of accidents per employee last year 
and that a contest be developed to see which department will have 
the greatest percentage of reduction in accidents each year. To 
further stimulate this effort a bonus should be given to the first, 
second and third most successful departments in carrying out this 
program of prevention." 

The above letter surely demonstrates that this branch of prevent- 
ive surgery is only limited by the vision of the responsible workers 
in this field. 

The prevention of undue loss of time from work is best attained 
by treating every case of injury as serious from its inception 
until completely cured. Temporizing with slight infections, or 
with sprained backs; neglecting to diagnose early every case of frac- 
ture, or by considering some cases of apparent sprains as trivial, and 
later discovering that a true fracture is delaying the recovery; or 
sending some injured cases home when they really should have the 
advantages of the best hospital treatment, are all examples of undue 
loss of time from work by injured employees which it is within 
the power of the surgeon to prevent. 

Early diagnosis, the adoption from the very first of the best 
line of treatment, constant watchfulness for complications, and 
starting early to restore function in an injured part are the best means 
of preventing permanent deformities. In order to accomplish this 
the surgeon must be constantly on the job. He cannot leave impor- 
tant dressings, or the decision as to when massage or passive motion 
shall begin in an injured member, nor any other important point of 
judgment to some inexperienced interne. He must feel the full 
responsibility of the case and act quickly and wisely if he is to be a 
true preventive surgeon. 

The constant supervision of the physical status of a large group of 
people, such as is carried on in certain industries, reveals many con- 
ditions which need surgical interference. Some of these offer oppor- 
tunity for classical operations but are not really essential to the health 
or efficiency of the employees. Others, which apparently cause no 
inconvenience to the employee at the time, urgently need surgical 
care in order to prevent future illnesses or premature break-downs. 



THE SURGICAL DISPENSARY STAFF 489 

Frequently these conditions are causing an unknown loss of efficiency 
to the workmen which could be relieved by surgical interference. 

This type of surgery requires the most careful judgment on the 
part of the surgeon. It is not so difficult to convince a patient suffer- 
ing from some acute surgical condition causing intense pain to undergo 
an operation, but excellent arguments must be presented in order to 
persuade an employee in apparently good health to submit to one of 
these preventive surgical operations. The economic result is the best 
argument which can be advanced. If an employee can be shown 
that the removal of some condition, to which he has paid little attention 
in the past, will tend to improve his health, will prolong the period of 
his working capacity and will give him an immediate increased effi- 
ciency he will usually welcome such surgical procedure. The surgeon 
must be sure of his results before recommending operations on these 
grounds. 

One of the most classical examples of this type of preventive surgery 
is afforded by the work of our oral surgeons. A few years ago Billings 
and others called our attention to the part played by focal infections 
in rheumatism, arthritis, endocarditis and similar conditions. In order 
to relieve people suffering with these diseases, search for foci of infec- 
tions was made and the same were removed. The eradication of focal 
infections to prevent the occurrence of these diseases followed in logical 
sequence. 

The majority of up-to-date industrial surgical dispensaries now 
have their dental departments where this type of preventive surgery 
can be practised. (See Chapter V.) 

Diseased tonsils is one of the most common conditions found among 
employees. The condition is equally prevalent among males and 
females. They seem to cause more time loss and complications among 
the girl employees, however, than among the men. Recurring attacks 
of tonsillitis seem to occur with equal frequency among both sexes but 
headaches, nausea and backaches, all of which have been relieved by 
the removal of the diseased tonsils, caused the greater loss of time 
among the girls. 

In 1914 the author began to recommend the removal of tonsils to 
all employees who showed signs of definite diseased conditions, with 
resulting loss of efficiency, due to the tonsils. As an inducement to 
the employees to have this operation performed, the surgeon offered 
his services free of charge. For those who could not afford to pay for 
a bed at the hospital arrangements were made for free hospital care; 
the others were charged only a nominal hospital fee. Approximately 
250 tonsillectomies were performed for the employees by the surgeon 
and a far greater number had the operation performed, by the surgeon 
of their choice, on the recommendation of the medical staff. These 



490 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

operations, which the author performed, were always done in the 
hospital under the most aseptic precautions and the patients were 
required to remain there at least 24 hours. All cases recovered 
without any complications except 'two who had severe hemorrhages. 
In every case it was carefully explained to the employee that the 
operation was offered on the sole responsibility of the surgeon and not 
as an activity of the concern. 

In practically every instance this preventive surgery has given the 
most excellent economic results. Male employees who frequented the 
doctor's office, complaining of sprained backs, lumbago and backache 
were relieved of these troubles in many instances. The girl em- 
ployees who reported to the office on account of headaches, attacks of 
nausea and fainting, signs of fatigue, frequent colds and other con- 
ditions traceable to this focal infection, seldom called at the office on 
account of these conditions after the tonsillectomy. Many of these 
employees were absent four or five times during the course of a year 
on account of acute tonsillitis. The lost time averaged from two days 
to a week in each attack. Where the tonsils were completely 
enucleated all of these employees ceased to lose time on account of 
this disease. In only two of the author's series, due to small tags of 
tonsils, did subsequent attacks occur. 

In 1915 the records of 28 employees, on whom the author had 
operated for diseased tonsils, were carefully scrutinized to ascertain 
whether or not the desired economic results were actually being 
obtained. This scrutiny showed that for the two years previous to the 
tonsillectomies these employees had made 160 visits to the doctor's 
office, chiefly on account of tonsillitis, colds, sore throat, headache, 
conjunctivitis, nausea, pains in back, pains in joints, swollen glands 
and general fatigue. During the same period this group of employees 
had remained at home 71 times on account of sickness. Their chief 
illnesses were tonsillitis, colds, headache, rheumatism, neuralgia, influ- 
enza, and a few other conditions which seemed to have no connection 
with the tonsils. 

For the two year period following their tonsillectomies this group 
made 68 visits to the doctor's office and were absent from work only 33 
times. A reduction in both instances of over 50 per cent, in time 
loss. The conditions causing these absences were as follows: 

4 on account of colds 

4 on account of stomach trouble 

4 on account of rheumatism 

5 on account of influenza 

6 on account of dysmenorrhea 
2 on account of bronchitis 

2 on account of sore throat and earache 



THE SURGICAL DISPENSARY STAFF 491 

3 on account of headaches 
1 on account of pleurisy 
1 on account of appendicitis 
1 on account of cholecystitis 

The war interfered with the obtaining of complete statistics on 
all of the tonsillectomies but I am positive that the removal of dis- 
eased tonsils among employees, as well as among any other group 
of people, will result in greatly improved health and is a measure of 
the greatest economic importance to industry. 

It is amazing with what ease a small epidemic of tonsillitis will 
spread among a group of employees working in the same department. 
To avoid these epidemics, if the employees will not submit to the opera- 
tion, I have made it a point to recommend their transfer to work which 
segregates them as far as possible from their fellow workmen. 
Under the chapter on "Hand Infections" the relationship between 
these and diseased tonsils is pointed out and affords another example 
of -the importance of this type of preventive surgery. 

The presence of an unsightly birth mark or nevus on an employee's 
face, or of a hairy mole on the lip, or of a large sebaceous cyst on the 
scalp is often the cause of lowered efficiency in an employee. The 
condition may make one self-conscious or backward, or it may re- 
sult in a foreman forming a wrong judgment concerning the ability 
of the workman. The surgeon can gain the confidence of these 
employees and explain the resulting damage which these condi- 
tions are causing them. After their confidence is gained most em- 
ployees will welcome the opportunity of having these unsightly growths 
removed. The gratitude of these patients and the energy they dis- 
play in overcoming the prejudice which existed either in their own 
minds, or in the minds of others, well repays the surgeon for his in- 
terest in them. Surgery performed for the purpose of preventing 
decreased efficiency is perhaps a new viewpoint but it is a field which 
every surgeon in industry has an opportunity to thoroughly investigate. 

The above examples of the scope of preventive surgery are suffi- 
cient to demonstrate that this field is comparable in importance and 
interest to the older and well-recognized work of preventive medicine. 



CHAPTER XXXII 
FIRST AID 

First aid, as used in industrial surgery, consists of such surgical 
or medical procedures as may be given to a patient by a layman pend- 
ing the arrival of a physician or during the transportation of the patient 
to the physician. Untrained individuals often render first aid care 
on their own responsibility. Such assistance is often necessary, but 
to be of the greatest value it should be administered by a thoroughly 
trained first aid expert. 

During the last ten years many advocates of first aid care sprang 
up throughout industry. Lay associations were formed and doctors, 
without sufficient training or experience in industrial surgery, were 
called in to lecture on first aid. First aid diplomas have even been issued, 
giving the layman a sense of great confidence in his ability to care for the 
injured. Many have advocated a national first aid movement which 
would train millions of our civilian population as to just what to do 
immediately for the injured man or woman. If the teachings of such 
an association were limited to three or four simple but essential prin- 
ciples, and the rest of their energy was devoted to "What Not to Do," 
there is no doubt but that such a movement would result in the saving 
of thousands of lives during the course of a year. But if the efforts 
of these half-trained first aiders were allowed to go unbridled among 
minor injury cases many of them would not see a doctor until some 
serious complication had developed. 

Recognizing the importance of standard first aid care to the injured 
civilian forces, many different individuals and associations have en- 
deavored to work out a logical system of standardization. Dr. Joseph 
Colt Bloodgood's questionnaires and investigations on this subject 
have resulted in stimulating these efforts, even though, as Bloodgood 
himself says, this work resulted only in the expenditure of considerable 
sums of money and the accumulation of so much material that he alone 
could not arrive at any logical conclusions. 

The committee on Standardization, under the leadership of Dr. 
Rucker, of the United States Public Health Service, took over the 
data which Dr. Bloodgood had collected and started a further investiga- 
tion on this subject. The war interfered with this study, but it is hoped 
that when conditions once more become normal much valuable informa- 
tion will be presented to the country as a result of the work of this Com- 

492 



FIRST AID 493 

mittee. The Conference Board of Industrial Physicians, The National 
Electric Light Association, The Bureau of Mines Department of the 
'Interior, The National Safety Council and other organizations have 
brought out valuable contributions on the subject of first aid. 

While excellent results have been obtained by many of these 
standardized first aid methods when properly supervised by physicians, 
yet one outstanding criticism is applicable to the majority, viz., they 
are too extensive and tend to make embryo physicians out of the 
trained first aid assistant. 

1 




Ti<;. 72. First aid station at Colorado Fuel & Iron Co. A trained nurse is always in 

attendance. 

In organized industrial surgery three first aid systems have been 
developed which deserve mention: 

1. The best system is found in a few industries which employ a 
sufficient number of doctors and nurses on the premises at all times 
so that immediate emergency treatment by a qualified physician can 
be given to all injured employees. The only first aid care needed 
in such industries is: the application of some antiseptic at once 
by the employee himself or by some fellow employee to open wounds ; 
the resuscitation of employees who have been overcome by gas, elec- 
tric shock or similar conditions; the control of hemorrhage by the ap- 
plication of hemorrhage pads or the tourniquet; and the removal of 
the injured party from a position to preclude further injury. Thus 
in those industries where a doctor can be summoned to a department 
within four or five minutes certain employees should be taught these 
simple first aid methods. Above all every employee should be warned 



494 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



against unduly moving of the injured, against manipulation of broken 
parts, against ever touching the open wounds and certainly against 
endeavoring to remove foreign bodies. If the surgeon, on his arrival, 
needs assistance in these maneuvers he will request it from some in- 
telligent employee in the department. The majority of persons 
injured in the plant can be brought to the doctor's office at once where 
proper emergency care can be given. For these the only first aid 
needed is the application of some antiseptic to the open wound; this 
can usually be done by the employee himself or by some fellow em- 
ployee. In these plants the nurses often respond to calls from de- 
partments and they become quite expert in rendering the necessary 
first aid. They take charge of transporting the patient to the doctor's 
office or summoning the physician if they think it unwise to move 
him at once. 




FIG. 73. A first aid station in the Ford automobile factory. 



2. The second method in vogue in some industries consists of first 
aid stations in various parts of the plant, with a well trained first aid 
man or a qualified nurse in charge. Injured employees are taken at 
once to these first aid stations, or the attendants are called to them 
when the injured party cannot be moved. These assistants render 
the necessary first aid care and then transport the injured to the 
doctor or immediately summon the physician to the case. In one 
industry medical students are employed for three hours a day on this 
work, so rotating that it does not materially interfere with their studies. 









FIRST AID 495 

Here again the first aid is limited to the application of antiseptics 
and a sterile dressing, checking of hemorrhage, combating shock and 
resuscitation. All manipulations or direct treatment of the wound 
is left to the physician who is close at hand. (Fig. 73.) 

3. The third method is employed in industries engaged in unusually 
hazardous occupations and where the employees are scattered over 
a large territory, as, for example, in mines, in large steel plants, ship- 
building yards, etc. While physicians are employed by these con- 
cerns, yet they are usually stationed at the plant hospital which may 
be a half mile or a mile away from the point where some of the work- 
men are employed. The best organized medical work in such con- 
cerns has recognized the need of competent first aid assistants scattered 
throughout the working forces. To meet the situation the physician 
has trained first aid teams in every department. The teams are taught 
how to immediately apply an antiseptic to open wounds and then 
cover them with a. sterile dressing; how to check hemorrhages and 
combat shock; how to give artificial respiration; how to apply splints 
to fractured limbs and the best means of transporting the injured 
employee to the doctor. In some instances the medical staff depends 
altogether on these teams to render first aid care and to bring the pa- 
tient to the hospital, while in others the doctor is summoned from the 
hospital by one member of the team while the others are rendering the 
necessary care. The latter plan is better, as the physician can thus 
take charge of the case earlier than if he waits for the seriously injured 
to be conducted to him. 

During the early popularity of the first aid movement many more 
elaborate schemes than the above were promulgated. In 1914 the 
author visited a number of industries in order to study this question 
of first aid. He was astounded at the extensive preparation for this 
work which some concerns had made. For example, one industry had 
provided a very pretentious first aid kit, which contained a complete 
set of instruments, all varieties of commercial splints, six different 
sized bandages but no sterile dressings; one compartment of this kit 
was set aside for medicines and in this was found such drugs as castor 
oil, Epsom salts, whiskey, aromatic spirits of ammonia, morphin, 
cocain, Sun cholera tablets, a cough mixture, Jamaica ginger and several 
others which would enable the layman to treat medical cases as well 
as to render a questionable first aid to the injured. One can see at a 
glance that such power as this placed in the hands of a layman was 
dangerous and would tend to eliminate the physician from a field 
where he was most urgently needed. The very best types of first 
aid work were found in those industries where the doctor insisted 
on seeing the injured employee just as soon after the accident oc- 
curred as it was possible to bring the patient to the surgeon or the 



496 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

surgeon to the patient. In those plants where the hazards of the 
occupations necessitated first aid kits the contents were limited to the 
necessary bandages and sterile dressings, a few splints, an antiseptic, 
a tourniquet and aromatic spirits of ammonia to be used when a 
stimulant was necessary. Short, terse instructions went with each 
kit and limited the layman in what he could do for the patient and 
impressed upon him the importance of getting the physician on the 
job at once. The first aid methods consisted only of preventing in- 
fection, checking hemorrhages, combating shock and resuscitation. 
All other treatment was left to the surgeon. 




FIG. 74." The contents of the best first aid kits are limited to: a. Tincture of 
iodin and applicators; b, bandages and sterile dressings; c, some form of tourniquet; 
d, a few splints; e, aromatic spirits of ammonia. 

As a result of this study the author has adopted the following first 
aid rules: 

1. All injured employees, no matter how slight the injury, must 
report to the doctor's office at once. 

2. If the employee is so injured that he cannot walk to the doctor's 
office the physician must be summoned to him at once. 

3. Every open wound which penetrates the skin, no matter how 
slightly, must be painted with iodin at once. The foreman or the 
selected first aid man in the department must pour iodin into the 
extensive open wounds at once. For this purpose a small rack, 
containing a bottle of iodin and a bottle of applicators must be placed 
in a conspicuous spot in every department (as many as twelve of these 
racks have been placed in the larger departments). Instructions on 
each rack and on the bulletin boards warn the employees to use 
iodin at once in the case of injury and then immediately to report to the 
doctor. (See Fig. 75.) 

4. First aid kits must be placed in all departments where machinery 



FIRST AID 



497 



is used or where other hazardous processes obtain. A wooden box, 
15" X $W X 7" fastened by a strong clasp and equipped with one 
handle, wh ch acilitates carrying is to be used as a conta ner for the 
first aid material. This box is divided into four compartments: 
a large one for the various sized dressings, a smaller one for bandages, 
the tourniquet and a spool of adhesive plaster, a third compartment 
just large enough to hold the container for the iodin and applicators 




J 

75. Rack used by author to hold bottles of iodin and applicators, 
placed in conspicuous places throughout the working place. 



These are 



and a fourth small compartment into which is placed the aromatic 
spirits of ammonia. (See Figs. 76 and 77.) 

(a) The dressings are placed in three cloth bags, according to 

their size, as follows: 

Small sterile dressings, rolled individually in tissue paper 

for finger bandages or other small wounds. 

Middle sized sterile dressings, rolled individually in tissue 

paper for the larger wounds. 

Four large sterile hemorrhage pads, 12" X 18" (see Chapter 

32 



498 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 




FIG. 76. Author's first-aid kit. 




FIG. 77. First aid kit with four compartments packed. 



FIRST AID 499 

XXX) rolled individually in tissue paper, to be used as com- 
presses in case of hemorrhages or as dressings for large wounds. 
(6) The bandages consist of 1", 2" and 3" gauze bandages (four 
of each) and four strong cotton bandages 3" by 10 yds. 

(c) A spool of 3" adhesive plaster must be included in every kit, 
to be used to hold dressings in place when bandages cannot 
be applied. 

(d) The tourniquet consists of a 3" X 5 yd. rolled, strong, cotton 
bandage, plainly marked "To be used in case of hemorrhage 11 
(the author discarded the use of the rubber tourniquet in the 
hands of lay assistants because of the dangers arising from its 
use. The first aiders were instructed to place a compress over 
the artery above the bleeding point and to bandage the same 
as tightly as possible with this cotton bandage). 

(e) lodin is supplied for the purpose of immediate application to 
all open wounds, no matter how extensive. This is either to be 
painted on with an applicator when possible without touching 
the wound with the fingers, or to be quickly poured on directly 
from the bottle. 

(/) The aromatic spirits of ammonia is to be used in case of fainting 

or shock. 

On the inside of the lid of this first aid box the following legend 
is printed in large type: (See Fig. 77.) 

READ CAREFULLY 

This is a first aid outfit only. It is not to be used for subsequent 
dressings. The purpose of the first aid man is not to replace the 
doctor. Send every injured employee to the Doctor's Office at once, 
no matter how slight the injury. Use these supplies for temporary 
dressings until proper medical care can be obtained. 

DIRECTIONS 

lodin and Applicators. Apply iodin at once to all injuries, small or 
large, that break or penetrate the skin. Paint over only once. Do 
not wash injured part with soap and water, hydrogen peroxid, nor 
any other antiseptic. Simply paint over with iodin. It kills the germs 
and renders all dirt in the wound inactive. 

Small Dressings. To cover cuts or bleeding wounds. Remove 
tissue paper and unfold gauze. Avoid touching that portion of the 
dressing which goes next to the wound; bandage. 

Hemorrhage Pads. To be used on large wounds or bleeding sur- 
faces. Unfold the pad without touching the surface applied next to 
the bleeding area. With bandage bind on sufficiently tight to con- 
trol bleeding. 



500 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

Constrictor or Bandage Tourniquet. When severe hemorrhage 
occurs in any part of the arm or leg wrap the constrictor about the 
extremity a short distance above the point of hemorrhage and tie 
sufficiently tight to control the bleeding. 

Aromatic Spirits of Ammonia. To be used in case of fainting 
or shock. One-half teaspoonful in one-half glass of water and give to 
patient to drink, or let the patient inhale the fumes from the bottle. 
In case of fainting lay person flat on back either on the floor or on a 
table until the faint is over. 

5. In every department where accident hazards exist, two or more 
intelligent employees must be trained in the following first aid methods : 

(a) To Prevent Infections. lodin is to be applied immediately to 
every open wound as already described. Foreign bodies are 
only to be removed when the same can be done without in- 
serting the finger into the wound. The proper sized sterile 
dressing is then removed from the tissue paper covering and 
applied to the wound without touching the inner side, which 
goes next to the wound, with the fingers. The dressing is to be 
held in place by a bandage or by adhesive plaster. Care must 
be observed at all times not to unduly move the injured part. 
Washing with soap and water or other manipulation of the 
wound is absolutely prohibited at all times. In case of a 
compound fracture (a broken bone accompanied by an open 
wound) the wound is simply to be covered with iodin and a 
sterile dressing applied. Leave manipulation for the surgeon 
when he arrives. In wounds about the eyes exercise great 
care to prevent the iodin entering the eye. 

(6) Checking Hemorrhage. In case of excessive bleeding from a 
wound a hemorrhage pad is to be applied without touching 
the surface next to the wound and the bleeding is then to be 
checked by a firm pressure being made over the pad with the 
fingers. After two minutes of strong pressure if the bleeding 
continues apply the tourniquet; if the pressure has checked 
the hemorrhage, bandage the hemorrhage pad snugly in place. 
In applying the tourniquet a small compress should be made 
from a middle-sized dressing and the cotton bandage, marked 
for hemorrhages, should be bound about the member as tightly 
as possible and tied in place. All of these maneuvers must 
be done as gently as possible. In case of hemorrhage do 
not administer aromatic spirits of ammonia unless absolutely 
necessary. 

(c) Combating Shock. Every seriously injured person must be 
immediately placed in a prone position. To do this he should 



FIRST AID 501 

not be moved any great distance. Whenever possible he 
must be protected from extremes of heat and cold, especially 
the latter. He must also be protected from a damp ground 
or a cold cement floor. If he cannot be moved to a dry, warm 
spot, then several coats should be placed under him. All 
of the body, except the wounded part should be immediately 
covered by blankets or overcoats. The head must be on the 
same level with the rest of the body except in case of hemor- 
rhage or fainting, when it should be at a lower level. In the 
case of shock these precautions must be doubly observed. Heat 
should be applied about the body. This can be done by 
filling dinner pails, bottles or jars with hot water or by the 
use of hot water bottles or hot bricks placed near the body 
under the coverings. Precautions must always be taken 
not to burn the patient. Half a teaspoonful of aromatic 
spirits of ammonia in a half a glass of water should be given 
at once if patient is conscious. Never give an unconscious 
person water or other liquid as it may enter his windpipe and 
strangle him. If conscious give the patient all the water he 
wants in small amounts at frequent intervals. In case of vomit- 
ing turn the head to one side so that he will not swallow the 
vomited matter and strangle himself. Loosen all tight clothing. 
Avoid undue movement of the body. Do only what is neces- 
sary to make him comfortable and keep him warm. 
(d) Resuscitation. To be used in cases of electric shock, suffocation 
or asphyxiation or other conditions which have apparently 
caused cessation of breathing. Artificial respiration by .the 
Schdfer or prone method should be employed as follows: Place 
the person on his abdomen; remove from his mouth all foreign 
bodies, such as false teeth, tobacco and gum; pull and keep 
the tongue forward; turn his head to one side and rest it on 
his forearm, so that the mouth and the nose will not come in 
contact with the ground and extend the other arm forward. 
If the person is thin prepare a pad of folded clothing, blankets, 
or other material and place it under the lower part of his chest. 
Do not make this pad too thick. Do not wait to loosen the 
victim's clothing but begin artificial respiration without 
delay. An assistant may remove all tight clothing from the 
victim's neck, chest and waist; blankets, hot water bottles, 
safety lamps, or hot bricks well wrapped in paper or cloth 
should be placed about the person by an assistant. Kneel, 
straddling the person's thighs and, facing his head, rest the 
palms of your hands on his loins on the muscles of the small 
of his back with your thumbs nearly touching each other 



502 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

and your fingers spread over his lowest ribs; with arms held 
straight swing forward slowly so that the weight of your body 
is gradually brought to bear on the person. This operation, 
which should take three or four seconds, must not be violent, 
lest the internal organs be injured. The lower part of the 
chest and also the abdomen are thus compressed and air is 
forced out of the lungs. Now, immediately swing back slowly 
so as to remove the pressure, but leave your hands in place, 
thus returning to the original position. Through their elas- 
ticity the patient's chest walls expand and his lungs are thus 
supplied with fresh air. After two seconds swing forward 
again and repeat deliberately, 16 to 18 times a minute, the 
double movement of compressing and releasing causing a 
complete respiration in about four seconds. If a watch or 
clock is not available, follow the natural rate of your own deep 
breathing, swinging forward with each expiration and back- 
ward with each inspiration. Continue artificial respiration, if 
necessary, for at least three hours without interruption until 
natural breathing has been restored, or until a physician arrives. 
Even after natural breathing begins carefully watch that it 
continues. If it stops, start artificial respiration again. Do 
not give aromatic spirits of ammonia or other liquids by 
mouth until the patient is fully conscious. Keep all by- 
standers away from the patient in order to give him plenty 
of air. (Various machines to assist or compel artificial respir- 
ation have been invented. Only an expert in the manipulation 
of such a machine should be allowed to use them.) 

(e) Fractures. In case of fractures never move the patient, 
unless it is to free him from further danger, until the part 
has been thoroughly immobilized with a splint. The injured 
limb should be immobilized with the least manipulation 
possible. A splint can be made by using a thin board slightly 
wider than the injured member and covering it with one or two 
of the hemorrhage pads. It is then firmly bound to the 
member with one or more of the cotton bandages. These 
same principles hold in the case of dislocations. Leave the 
manipulation of the broken or dislocated parts to the 
surgeon. 

(/) Burns. In case of burns the patient is to be brought as rapidly 
as possible to 'the doctor's office or the doctor" immediately 
summoned to the patient, the nature of the case always being 
explained in the summons. Cotton rags and other material 
are not to be placed on burns. If the patient is in shock, 
treat these symptoms until the doctor arrives. 






FIRST AID 503 

The above rules and methods are sufficient for the first aid care 
of any injured employee when a doctor can be summoned very shortly. 
I wish to again emphasize the fact that the ideal system of industrial 
surgery is based upon the immediate treatment of a wound by a 
qualified surgeon. 

A few years ago no one question in accident surgery caused more 
discussion than the application of proper antiseptic to an open wound. 
Many good surgeons decried the use of any antiseptic and advocated 
thoroughly washing with soap and water. Some instructed their first 
aid assistants to immediately wash a wound with hot water and soap. 
Such a method is no longer recommended as a first aid procedure and 
very few surgeons to-day apply soap and water to any wound. The 
danger of grinding infected material deeper into the injured parts by 
such a washing process is greater than if the wound was left absolutely 
alone. The pendulum then swung to the other extreme and it was 
advocated to thoroughly wash the wound with bichlorid of mercury 
or hydrogen peroxid and then paint it with carbolic acid, followed by 
alcohol. It is still a common sight to see a wound washed, anti- 
septicized and otherwise picked at for ten or fifteen minutes before 
the dressing is applied. Even then the dressing may be frequently 
soaked with bichlorid or some other antiseptic. 

The replies to the questionnaire sent out by the Committee on 
Standardization of First Aid Methods, as well as the investigations 
of Dr. Bloodgood, show that at least 90 per cent, of 'the surgeons in 
industry advocate the use of some antiseptic as a first aid measure. 
Approximately 80 per cent, of these advocate tincture of iodin as the 
best and most logical antiseptic to be used. The majority of these are 
in favor of the patient, or a fellow workman, painting the part at 
once with tincture of iodin, but some of these surgeons fear that such 
a procedure gives a false security to the employee and lessens the 
chances of his reporting to the doctor for proper treatment. 

My own experience has absolutely convinced me that the immediate 
use of tincture of iodin to an injured part by the employee himself 
or by a fellow employee is the most important first aid procedure which 
can be adopted in industry. In 1909, when I first used iodin in every 
department of the industry with which I was connected, there was 
an immediate reduction of 28 per cent, in the number of infections 
the first month after this plan was installed. To counteract the danger 
of the injured employee thinking that the use of iodin was all-sufficient, 
bulletins, letters and constant warnings were scattered throughout 
the working forces to the effect that "Every injury no matter how 
slight must be painted with iodin at once and then the employee 
must report to the doctor immediately." Some claim that the report- 
ing to the doctor at once is sufficient. Every year, however, has more 



504 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



clearly demonstrated that the combination of the use of iodin and the 
reporting to the doctor at once is superior to the method of only 
reporting to the doctor at once. The nature of the work in this in- 
dustry was such as to cause a great many minor accidents from such 
conditions as pin pricks, nail wounds, slivers, abrasions, etc. The 
following table clearly demonstrates that the double procedure gives 
better results than the single method of reporting at once : 

TABLE 17 

TABLE ILLUSTRATING THE VALUE OF "USE OF IODIN AT ONCE 
AND REPORTING TO THE DOCTOR AT ONCE" 





1913 


1914 


1915 


1916 


Total number of infections 


710 


655 


586 


610 


1 Iodin used in Dept. reported at once 


18 


16 


5 


10 


1 Iodin not used in Dept. reported at once. 


28 


28 


12 


12 


Rules not observed . 


668 


611 


569 


588 













The degree of infection in those cases where iodin was used or 
where they reported to the doctor's office was very slight and 
consisted only of redness and a small degree of swelling about the wound 
or a drop of pus. The fact that none of these lost time from work 
or required an incision clearly points to very mild infection. 

The large number of infected cases that failed to observe these 
rules came from the following groups: 

(a) New employees who had not yet learned their lesson (one 
year 80 per cent, of the infected cases came from this group). 

(6) Employees who failed to report to work and who could not 
be located by the visiting nurse, and otherwise neglected their dressings. 

(c) Employees who removed their dressings at home and applied 
some home remedy. 

(d) The employee who "didn't believe in doctors." 

(e) Christian scientists. 

Such figures plainly show that no matter how extensive your 
preventive measures are, or how extensive an educational campaign 
you wage, these careless employees will always be a source of trouble. 

During these four years there were 39,672 accidents cared for in 
this industry. These include the infected cases shown in the foregoing 
table. Out of this total number of accident cases, even including the 
very serious crushing and mutilating wounds, where the employees 
observed the first aid rules and continued under the constant care of 
the plant surgeon the infection rate was only 1.2 per cent. 

1 None of these required incision nor lost time from work. 



FIRST AID 505 

Bloodgood, as a result of his investigations concerning the various 
methods used by several hundred industrial surgeons, summarizes his 
conclusions concerning various uses of a first aid antiseptic by saying: 
"As far as can be ascertained from the industries the answer is 
practically uniform: that an antiseptic is of immense value in the 
wounds in industry in preventing infection. Whether that antiseptic 
should be applied by the individual or by the doctor who sees the 
wound quickly is a question on which I can get very little evidence. 
The great majority of surgeons in industries, however, agree that 
iodin is the best antiseptic to be used." 

Many of our best industrial surgeons advocate a much more 
extensive system of first aid than that outlined by the author. This 
is partly due to the fact that these doctors have fewer assistants so 
that it is impossible for a physician to always render the emergency 
treatment at once; or because the employees are so scattered that 
fifteen minutes to one or two hours must elapse before it is possible 
for the doctor to see the patient. Naturally, under these conditions, 
they must depend more upon lay assistants. Bear in mind, however, 
that even these reasons are not sufficient to permit of too much leeway 
being given to the first aid man. 

Doctor Loyal Shoudy of the Bethlehem Steel Company has 
developed a very excellent first aid system, which is constantly 
supervised by the doctor and his assistants. This consists of teams 
of six or eight men, who are thoroughly trained in a great many 
different first aid methods. Every large department has its team. He 
has extended this system to include not only the home plant but all 
of the subsidiary organizations. In order to stimulate enthusiasm 
and expertness among the various first aid teams he holds an annual 
First Aid Meet. The teams enter intensive training for several weeks, 
solving many theoretical problems of first aid care to the injured. A 
preliminary interdepartmental first aid meet is held and the winning 
teams then represent the various plants at the final meet. The prob- 
lems for the contest are selected from the records of actual injuries 
which the various first aid teams attended during the preceding year. 
In the recent first aid meet held at Bethlehem the following problems 
were selected for execution by the contesting teams: 

1. Dress compound fractures of leg, L., lower third. " splints. Eight 
triangular bandages. One tourniquet. One dressing. Use im- 
provised stretcher. Blanket. Time Allowance 10 minutes. 

2. Dress fracture of knee cap, R., crush of foot, R., and laceration 
of scalp. Two splints. Eight triangular bandages. Two dressings. 
Time allowance 8 minutes. 

3. Dress burns of foot, R., calf of same leg, fracture of lower jaw, 



506 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

R., and laceration of chest, L. Five triangular bandages. Three 
dressings. Time allowance 8 minutes. 

4. Dress dislocation of shoulder, L., burn of back of hand, L., and 
crush of foot, R. Five triangular bandages. One piece 1" roller band- 
age. Two dressings. One splint. Time allowance 8 minutes. 

5. Dress fracture of the back. Splints. Fourteen triangular 
bandages. Two blankets. Time allowance 10 minutes. 

6. Dress lacerated shoulder, R., and opposite fractured forearm. 
Seven triangular bandages. Two splints. One dressing. Time 
allowance 8 minutes. 

7. Patient found in unconscious condition from prolonged inhalation 
of blast furnace gas, rescue (one man method). Resuscitate (demon- 
strate Schafer and Sylvester methods). Two blankets. Stimulants. 
Time allowance 5 minutes. 

8. Dress burns of entire head, face, back, chest, shoulders, and back 
of both hands. Six triangular bandages. Four dressings. Blanket. 
Time allowance 8 minutes. 

9. Dress fracture of lower jaw, R., and sprain of ankle, R. Two 
triangular bandages. One 2" roller bandage. Time allowance 8 
minutes. 

10. Rescue from electrical contact. 

Instructions 

Dress the most serious injury first. 

Do not allow fingers to come in contact with underside of dressings. 

Grasp artery and use tourniquet in all cases of compound fracture. 

Watch for symptoms of shock in all injuries. 

Treat for shock in all problems where blanket is indicated. 

In dressing patients, kneel on knee next to patient's feet. 

While the above were theoretical cases arranged for purposes of 
the field meet, yet they illustrated the exact nature of the injuries 
which these first aid teams were called upon to treat during the course 
of their work. Dr. Shoudy's paper before the 1918 Convention of the 
National Safety Council thoroughly explains his methods of training 
these teams. 

There is no question but that better results could be obtained if 
emergency treatment by qualified physicians could be rendered at 
once in such extensive injuries as these, but in the absence of a suffi- 
cient number of physicians to meet the situation, this elaborate plan 
in a hazardous industry is worthy of great commendation. 

One of the greatest functions of these teams is the constant study 
of works conditions in order to prevent accidents. It is very essential 
that every first aid man should be first, last and all the time a preven- 
tion man. 



FIRST AID 507 

The N. A. S. O. First Aid outfit is the result of numerous confer- 
ences of surgeons from different industries, held under the auspices 
of the Conference Board of Industrial Physicians. Dr. Lauffer, of 
the Westinghouse Company, who helped standardize this outfit, de- 
scribes it as follows: "The container is glass, the contents include 
(1) drugs and (2) dressings; and are: 

1 tourniquet. 
1 pr. nickel plated scissors. 
1 triangular sling. 
12 assorted safety pins. 
1 wire gauze splint. 

1 two ounce bottle castor oil. 

2 three ounce bottles burn ointment. 

1 two ounce bottle 3 per cent, alcoholic iodin. 

1 two ounce bottle white wine vinegar. 

1 two ounce bottle aromatic spirits of ammonia. 

1 two ounce bottle 4 per cent, aqueous boric acid. 

1 two ounce bottle Jamaica ginger. 

1 piece of flannel 24" X 36". 

1 roll absorbent cotton. 

1 roll 3" X 10 yd. gauze bandage. 

2 rolls 2" X 10 yd. gauze bandage. 

1 spool I" X 5 yd. adhesive plaster. 
4 rolls 1" X 10 yd. gauze bandage. 
6 packages 6" X36" sterile gauze. 
1 teaspoon. 

1 medicine glass. 

2 medicine droppers. 

3 paper drinking cups. 
12 first aid record cards. 

11 finger splints. 

12 wooden applicators. 
1 instrument box. 

1 cotton box. 

This detailed list of contents were regarded as the best items to include 
in the outfit in the year 1915, in the collective judgment of the Con- 
ference Board. 

"The special requirements of particular injuries are cared for by 
adding to or subtracting from the standard contents of this jar. 

"The rules of procedure for the instruction of laymen were agreed 
upon by the Conference Board in advance of the se'ection of the con- 
tents of the jar, and it will be observed that the first aid taught is 
preliminary, not final treatment, and that it is designed that the pa- 



508 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



tient be given reasonable first aid attention, pending the care of the 
case by a physician." 

Dr. A. W. Colcord, of the Carnegie Steel Company, is one of the 
pioneers in the instruction of the layman in the application of first aid. 
He states "I believe we have overdone this work; I feel that we have 
undertaken to teach too much and to allow the layman to do too 
much. After three years of lecturing to for-ty special groups on this 
subject I have boiled down instructions on this subject to just four 
things: 

1. How to treat hemorrhages. 

2. How to treat shock and asphyxia. 

3. How to transport the injured man with a maximum of speed 
and a minimum of trauma to the proper place. 

4. What not to do: To keep away entirely from the wound; 
not to administer a dressing; and get to the emergency 
hospital as quickly as possible. 

I believe attempted treatment of wounds by a layman has done in- 
finite harm and that we cannot condemn it too strongly." 

In 1917 the Bureau of Mines, Department of the Interior issued 
a small book on "First Aid Instructions for Miners; a Report on 
Standardization. This was compiled by a Committee of surgeons 
consisting of G. H. Halberstadt, A. F. Knoefel, W. A. Lynott, W. S. 
Rountree and M. J. Shields. Every surgeon in industry should read 
this book as it is pregnant with excellent ideas, not only on first aid 
care but on emergency surgical treatment. The following summary 
shows the extent of the first aid work advocated by these authorities 
for mine employees : 

FIRST AID EQUIPMENT 
(SURFACE FIRST AID DRESSING STATION) 

"At a suitable place on the surface and near the mine opening 
there should be a first aid dressing station, which also can be used as 
a storeroom for first aid supplies. In this building should be a 
stretcher, woolen blanket, waterproof blanket, and splints, all of which 
except the splints should be suitably protected from moisture and air 
in a sealed tin case, or its equivalent. Also there should be first aid 
packets in germ proof and waterproof wrappings suitably protected 
in sealed metal boxes, and first aid cabinets. 

CONTENTS OF FIRST AID CABINET 

"Each cabinet should contain: 

12 sterile triangular (unprinted) bandages. 

12 small bandage compresses, each 1" square when folded 

upon itself about 15 times, with muslin tails % yard long, 

the center being sewed to compress. 



FIRST AID 509 

12 medium-size bandage compresses, each 2)^" square when 

folded upon itself about 18 times, with muslin tails 1 yard 

long, the center being sewed to compress. 
6 large bandage compresses, each 3%" square and folded 

upon itself about 20 times, with muslin tails 2 yards long, 

the center being sewed to compress. 
6 packages of sterile picric acid gauze, each containing a 

piece of gauze 1 yard square. 
6 yucca splints or similar material. 
1 two ounce bottle aromatic spirits of ammonia. 
6 paper cups. 
1 teaspoon (horn). 
1 tourniquet. 
1 pair of scissors. 

(From First Aid Instructions for Miners.) 

UNDERGROUND DRESSING STATIONS 

" First aid dressing stations should be maintained near the bottom 
of the shaft or slope and at a central sidetrack. One first aid cabinet 
should be available for every 100 men or less. At least one man out 
of every 10 employees should carry a first aid packet which should 
be refilled when necessary. 

SURFACE HOSPITAL ROOM 

" Where a large number of men are employed, there should be avail- 
able on the surface a room provided with suitable hospital facilities, 
and having a surgeon in attendance. The building should be as close 
to the entrance of the mine as possible and should be supplied with 
the necessary articles, all furniture and utensils, except perhaps the 
chairs, to be covered with heavy white enamel. " 

SUGGESTIONS 

The authors of this report make the following suggestions : 

"1. That as far as possible first aid training be given under the 
immediate supervision of a regularly registered and qualified physician. 

"2. That there be close co-operation with the first aid department 
of the American National Red Cross in first aid work. 

l< 3. That all examinations for first aid certificates be held by a 
qualified physician and conform with such standards as may be laid 
down by the Bureau of Mines. 

"4. That it be an imperative rule that in all first aid contests the 
judges shall be regularly qualified physicians trained in first aid work. 

"5. That where it is possible every employee in a mine be trained 
in first aid work but if this is impossible that at least 1 out of every 
10 employees, both underground and on the surface, receive such 
training." 



510 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

CONCLUSIONS 

This chapter on first aid clearly indicates that the question as 
to what extent laymen should be permitted to treat injured employees 
is still unsettled. Practically every worker in this field agrees that 
a certain amount of first aid care is necessary. They further agree 
that the extent and method of first aid care should be standardized. 

The war interfered with the work of standardization, undertaken 
by the American Association of Industrial Physicians and Surgeons 
and also by the Committee on Standardization of the U. S. Public 
Health Service. It is hoped that these two organizations will get 
together as soon as the present emergency permits and work out this 
standardization. 

The author believes that all first aid methods should include and 
be limited to the following: 

1. The immediate application of tincture of iodin to all open 
wounds. 

2. The appointment of a responsible person among each group of 
employees to see that the injured employee reports to the doctor at 
once. 

3. The instruction of two or more responsible persons among 
each group of 100 employees in the best first aid methods of 

(a) Controlling hemorrhages. 
(6) Combating shock. 

(c) Resuscitation by artificial respiration. 

(d) Immobilization of fractures. 

(e) Transporting the injured when necessary 

Every report on this subject should point out most emphatically 
the importance of having a qualified surgeon on the job in industry 
at all times in order to render immediate emergency treatment. 



CHAPTER XXXIII 
EMERGENCY SURGERY 

Emergency surgery is the first treatment rendered to an injured 
person by the surgeon. An emergency operation is one performed to 
relieve some sudden emergency as, for example, the opening of an 
abdomen to relieve a hemorrhage or a tracheotomy performed because 
of a foreign body blocking the larnyx. 

As used in industrial surgery first aid is rendered by a layman but 
emergency surgery is always rendered by the surgeon. On the battle- 
field and in some industries the expert first aid man has been so well 
trained in his work that often the first aid treatment rendered by 
him is sufficient. Col. Frank Billings, reporting on the work which he 
saw at the front in France, stated that frequently the enlisted medical 
man applied the splint so thoroughly to a fractured limb that it was 
unnecessary for the surgeon to redress the fracture for several days. 
Dr. Shoudy has found that quite often his first aid men have executed 
their work so thoroughly that he was able to send the patient direct to 
the hospital for permanent care, without giving any emergency treat- 
ment. As a general rule, however, it would be a dangerous practice for 
this first aid care to replace the emergency surgery rendered by a quali- 
fied surgeon. 

This view is gradually becoming universal and as a result surgical 
dispensaries are being established in many of our large industries 
and a surgeon is kept at the plant at all times in order to render 
immediate emergency surgery and thereby obviate as far as 
possible the need for the less efficient first aid work. 

In fact, well organized medical staffs within our industries, with 
facilities for treating injured employees immediately after the 
occurrence of an accident, have made first aid superfluous in the majority 
of instances. These physicians insist on seeing patients at once before 
first aid measures have been applied. This limits the need for trained 
first aid workers to those departments where hazardous processes are 
carried on and where the employees are so far removed from the 
dispensary as to render immediate care impossible. Even here 
the injured employee and the surgeon can get together so quickly that 
emergency surgery is preferable. 

The surgical dispensary, its equipment and the necessary surgical 

511 



512 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



staff have been fully described in other chapters. (See Chapter XXXI.) 
Therefore this chapter will be devoted to those conditions commonly 
arising in industry which require emergency treatment and to a 
description of the practical methods which have been found most 
efficacious under the different circumstances. 

Two great slogans have developed in connection with accident 
surgery in industry. One deals with prevention in the pre-accident 
stage and is known as "safety first;" the other deals with the post- 
accident stage and is represented by "report at once." This reporting 
to the doctor at once when an injury is received, always qualified by 
"no matter how slight" is the universal preventive measure adopted 
by all surgeons in industry. As a result the great proportion of their 
work consists of the emergency treatment of minor accidents and their 
subsequent dressings. 

In the author's experience a hundred of these minor cases report to 
the doctor's office for every five of the more seriously injured em- 
ployees. In the combined major and minor accidents about one 
injury out of twelve is sufficiently disabling as to require actual 
lost time from work, providing the injured parties' report at once 
to the doctor. Approximately one of these disabling accidents 
out of every fifteen causes a disability exceeding fourteen days. 
In the major accidents, fractures are the chief cause of dis- 
ability, averaging 42.8 days per case. Sprains and dislocations were 
second and hernias came third in this class of accidents causing the 
greatest amount of disability. Thus, in major accidents the cause 
of disability can usually be traced to the severity of the injury as 
these employees are under control and therefore their treatment is 
uninterrupted. The greatest cause for disability among the minor acci- 
dent cases was infection. These occurred commonly among two classes, 
namely, those who failed to report to the doctor at once and those who 
were careless about their dressings or their return visits. Thus the 
majority of disability cases in this class can be traced to carelessness 
and neglect > on the part of the patient. 

Accidents in the general industries involve chiefly, the fingers and 
hands, the toes and feet, the eyes, the lower extremities, upper extremi- 
ties, the back, the head and the abdomen, named in their order of 
frequency. 

The most frequent minor wounds are:(a) abrasions; (6) contusions; 
(c) lacerations; (d) puncture wounds; (e) blisters; (/) brush-burns; 
(g) foreign bodies in the eye; (h) foreign bodies penetrating the soft 
parts; (i) strains; (j) sprains; (&) tenosynovitis; (I) ^wallowing foreign 
objects. 

Complications oftenest arising from these wounds are infections, 
ulcers, keloids and scar contractures. 



EMERGENCY SURGERY 513 

The chief major wounds met with in accident surgery are: (a) 
fractures; (6) crushing wounds; (c) dislocations; (d) penetrating wounds; 
(e) burns; (f) loss of members; (g) avulsions; (h) injuries of nerves, 
blood-vessels and viscera; (i) brain injuries; (j) special traumas, as 
traumatic hernias, traumatic orchitis, traumatic pleurisy, traumatic 
appendicitis and traumatic neuroses. These severe wounds may have 
any one of the complications common to minor injuries and in addition 
the immediate complications of shock and hemorrhage, and the more 
remote complications represented by systemic conditions occurring 
as the result of lowered resistance. Naturally permanent deformities 
more frequently follow these major accidents. 

Every variety and degree of the above minor and major injuries 
may occur singly or in combination and any one or several regions 
of the body may be involved. The complications which may arise 
are so numerous and often so surprising in their occurrence that the 
alertness and skill of the surgeon is taxed to the utmost. No field 
of surgery is more varied, and therefore more interesting, than this 
accident work. 

In addition to the above, emergency surgery in industry must 
contend with certain conditions not causing visible wounds but which 
nevertheless are injuries resulting in the course of employment. 
These include such cases as suffocation, asphyxiation, acute poisoning, 
freezing, heat stroke and sun stroke. 

The emergency care of any of these accidental conditions involves 
in every case consideration of a logical sequence of treatment : 

1. Prevent complications. 

2. Combat immediate complications. 

3. Temporary or permanent relief. 

4. Apply dressings. 

In 95 per cent, -of injured cases the line of treatment can follow 
the above sequence and the expert emergency surgeon automatically 
considers each of these steps in turn. However, in a small number 
of cases he is forced to forget every other step and exert all his energies 
toward combating the worst complication: impending death. There- 
fore, in 5 per cent, of the cases, steps one and two may be forced to 
exchange places in the sequence of treatment. 

PREVENT COMPLICATIONS 

Infections. In all accident surgery the commonest arid most 
feared complication is infection. In its wake follows many other 
complications, notably deformities, loss of members, systemic diseases 
and even death. The prevention of infections is the earliest lesson 
learned by the surgeon in industry. The majority of these surgeons 

33' 



514 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

have learned by experience that the best methods of prevention consist 
of three things: 

(a) Immediate application of an antiseptic to an open wound. 

(6) The earliest possible treatment of the wound by a qualified 
physician. 

(c) Protection of the wound by sterile dressings; regular and 
uninterrupted care until healed. 

Surgeons may differ as to the kind of antiseptic, or regarding some 
minor points in the treatment, or as to the type of dressing to employ 
and the frequency of redressings, but no experienced worker in this 
field differs as to the prime importance of these three steps in prevent- 
ing infections. 

. From a careful investigation of the kind of antiseptic used in 
accident surgery it is safe to say that at least 80 per cent, of the surgeons 
use some form of tincture of iodin. In the chapter on First Aid and 
again in the chapter on Hand Infections the author has advanced the 
strongest arguments in favor of the efficacy of tincture of iodin as a 
preventive agent. The fact that it is used so universally by the 
majority of surgeons is only another argument in favor of it as the 
antiseptic of choice in emergency surgery. 

The strength of the tincture of iodin advocated varies from 3 per 
cent, to the 10 per cent, tincture. The majority seem to use a 5 
per cent, strength diluted with alcohol. Some have urged the use 
of glycerin with iodin (one part of glycerin, three parts of iodin) 
as a means of preventing irritation of the skin or the severe burning 
complained of by many patients when the application of iodin to a raw 
wound is made. 

The antiseptic should be applied to the open wound as soon after the 
injury is received as possible. In order to meet this requirement, 
tincture of iodin with applicators should be kept at regular stations 
throughout the working place where the injured party or some fellow 
employee can apply it at once to the injured surface. This method 
is fully described elsewhere. Iodin can be applied by cotton applica- 
tors, by pouring on the wound, by applying with a camel's hair brush, 
or by using some of the commercial tubes which are so made that the 
iodin exudes through a gauze stopper, making combination container 
and applicator. Another excellent commercial tube on the market 
is sealed with paraffin, the tip of which can be broken off allowing 
the iodin to escape slowly. After using it the opening in the paraffin 
can be sealed by heating with a match. I have not found these 
commercial tubes as practicable, however, as iodin and applicator, 
chiefly because in large wounds one desires to quickly pour the iodin 
over the surface. When employees are allowed to use the iodin them- 
selves they should be warned against rubbing great quantities of the 



EMERGENCY SURGERY 515 

antiseptic into the skin or against soaking a dressing or cotton with it 
and binding same on the wound. The only cases of burning of the 
skin which the author has noted have been in the few instances where 
excessive amounts of the iodin have been used in this way. This use 
of the iodin in the departments by the employees has not caused them 
to cease reporting to the doctor at once for minor injuries, an argument 
which is often advanced against this system. When the patient 
reports to the dispensary, even though iodin has been applied 
in the department, the surgeon should again apply the antiseptic, 
making sure that every portion of the wound is treated. In the 
severer injuries this will often be very painful but the momentary 
pain is much better than the prolonged suffering following a later in- 
fection. Where active bleeding is present, this should be stopped 
by pressure with sterile gauze before the iodin is applied in order to be 
assured that the bottom of the wound is reached. The application 
of this antiseptic should be done quickly and deftly and nothing is 
gained by subjecting the patient to repeated applications. However, 
in severe crushing wounds a second treatment with the iodin should 
be made after the patient is anesthetized and before any operative 
procedure is undertaken. 

Other antiseptics used on wounds for the prevention of infection 
include carbolic acid followed by alcohol, alcohol alone, bichlorid of 
mercury (1 to 1000), hydrogen peroxid, turpentine, salt solution and 
recently Dakin's solution or some modification of it and dichloramin- 
T. Carbolic acid is not a safe routine antiseptic to use and really is 
only indicated in bites or other places where cauterization is needed. 
Its use should be followed by alcohol. Bichlorid of mercury was for- 
merly used quite extensively in emergency surgery but never accom- 
plished the desired result as tincture of iodin has done. Hydrogen 
peroxid is of very little value as an antiseptic for the prevention of 
infections; in fact in wounds with small external openings the forceful 
expansion of the peroxid may carry foreign infected material deeper 
into the wound. Turpentine has been commonly used by employees 
themselves to prevent blood poisoning. It is very painful and not 
as efficacious as iodin. Since war surgery has demonstrated the 
value of Dakin's solution and dichloramin-T a few surgeons have 
adopted the use of these as preventive antiseptics in lieu of iodin. 
Dr. Lee feels that the immediate application of dichloramin-T would 
prevent all infections and would be a cheaper antiseptic than iodin. 
Experimentation is now being conducted to prove whether or not 
this is true. Some surgeons have advocated the use of Dakin's 
solution in the same way and often give their patients a bottle of this 
solution to pour on the dressings covering the wound at stated inter- 
vals. More actual experience is necessary before either of these 



516 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

methods can be recommended and certainly before many surgeons 
would be willing to discard their old standby, tincture of iodin. One 
of the strongest exponents of this new antiseptic reported two years 
ago 77,000 wounds treated by the old methods with only 90 infections, 
while one of his colleagues reported 3500 wounds treated by the old 
methods with no infections. They are now using Dakin's solution 
and claim that it is producing splendid results. Certainly it would be 
hard to conceive of any better results in accident surgery than those 
reported by these two men when using the tincture of iodin. 

It is interesting to read of the different antiseptics advocated by 
the various surgeons operating at the front in this war. The English 
speak first of carbolic acid or diluted carbolic acid, while the French 
extol iodin. After a year or two of the war, Wright, the English 
surgeon, urged the use of salt solution while Carrel, operating with the 
French, proclaimed Dakin's solution as the antiseptic of choice. In 
the fourth year of the war many surgeons have swung back to the 
use of tincture of iodin as the best emergency antiseptic which could 
be used. Every first aid kit of the enlisted medical personnel of the 
American Army contains tincture of iodin. 

There is no question but that war wounds have developed extremely 
serious infections which are seldom seen in industrial surgery. These 
soldiers have been subjected to more 'terrific traumatisms, have had 
their filthy clothes ground into the flesh and in a great many cases 
have not reached the surgeon until several hours afterward, often 
with the parts badly infected. Some heroic method of treatment 
was necessary to check these infections and to overcome the excessive 
period of hospital treatment which was so common in the early days 
of the war. The reports of Dr. Carrel and other enthusiastic users 
of the Carrel-Dakin solution convinced practically the entire pro- 
fession that the continuous use of this antiseptic in these infected 
areas has been one of the greatest advances made in war surgery. 
Recent American reports show that, as the hospitals have been pushed 
nearer the front and the transportation of the wounded to the surgeon 
has been expedited, the number of serious infections has been decreas- 
ing. It is conceivable that if these patients could be treated immedi- 
ately by the surgeons, the elaborate Carrel-Dakin method would be 
needed only in the exceptional cases. 

In accident surgery in industry the injured either receive this 
immediate care by the surgeon or medical care is very shortly given. 
If, combined with this, tincture of iodin is applied to the injured part, 
no matter how excessive the injury, these severe infections seldom 
occur and the Carrel-Dakin treatment is correspondingly rarely needed. 
These wounds, receiving the immediate surgical attention and the 
early application of an antiseptic, have been successfully closed in the 



EMERGENCY SURGERY 51 

majority of cases without subsequent infection developing. This 
treatment, with its accompanying careful repair, is certainly much 
wiser than to insert a number of tubes into the wound and start the 
constant irrigation with the Carrel-Dakin solution, for, as stated 
above, experience has proven that the majority of such cases healed 
rapidly and with primary intention. I do not believe that Dr. Carrel 
himself, would advocate any other line of treatment. However, when 
any of these wounds show signs of infection or when, because of 
neglected early care, the surgeon is confronted with a seriously in- 
fected case, the Carrel-Dakin solution may very wisely be employed. 

The point I am trying to make is that the judgment of the surgeon 
in industry must not be warped by the new methods developed for the 
more serious war injured. On the other hand, war surgery has 
developed many new measures which will improve the technic and 
efficiency of all accident surgery and the surgeon in industry must 
develop a keen judgment in deciding which of these measures is an 
improvement or is essential and which of them is unnecessary when 
the nature of the case and the quicker methods of handling it are 
considered. 

In this connection the author desires to publish a report of three 
cases with comments on each, which emphasizes the value of tincture 
of iodin, which Dr. Charles A. Lauffer of the Westinghouse Company 
gave to him recently: 

" I. Charles W., L6-42. 

"Injured 6/18/17, resumed work 10/15/17. 

"Mode of Accident. While standing on a ladder to repair a line, 
reaching to the right, patient threw out his left foot to balance himself. 
This foot came in contact with a 36" fan, driven at high speed, 
employed for ventilating, located near the roof in P-2. 

"Extent of Injury. Patient was on the operating table at Braddock 
General Hospital within an hour of the injury. He was reluctant 
about giving his consent for the amputation of the first and second 
toes, until a mirror was provided, enabling him to see for himself the 
extent of the damage on the plantar surface of the foot, and the com- 
minuted fractures of these toes. Not only were all the tissues ground 
from the plantar surface of these two toes, but from the sole of the 
foot two inches beyond the insertion of these toes. 

"Surgical Treatment. Tincture of iodin was used at once. Very 
tenacious black dirt was inground, making it necessary to use the 
scissors, in addition to gasoline and tincture of iodin in abundance, 
in cleansing the lacerated tissues. It required an hour to clean the 
wound, and another half hour for the operative procedure. The bones 
were sacrificed from the big toe and the second toe, and the dorsal and 
lateral skin of these toes, as much as remained of it, was employed to 



518 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

cover in the defect on the sole of the foot. Tincture of iodin was 
employed to excess and an iodoform drain was inserted at the time of 
operation. 

"Comment. We expected to employ Dakin's solution subsequently, 
should infection set in, but this was not required. A staff member, 
a railroad surgeon, present when we operated the case, remarked: 
' What an excellent case on which to try out Dakin's solution. Put 
in tubes, do no washing nor cleaning, just bandage it up; continue the 
Dakin solution until the slough has separated/ 

" This recommendation was abhorrent; by cleansing and closing the 
wound, we avoided the implantation of infection, and within 24 hours, 
had a comfortable, well pleased patient on the high road to recovery; 
results justified the procedure followed. 

" X-Hay No. 1025 exhibits fractures of all five metatarsals, and the 
middle phalanx of the third toe; it was this extreme traumatism, not 
suspected at the time we operated his toes, that retarded his complete 
recovery. 

"2. John P., SK-323. 

Injured 7/17/17, discharged cured 8/7/17. Patient was a Greek, 
joined the army, and is now in camp. He is fully recovered. 

"Mode of Accident. Patient loaded sheet iron on small cars, drawn 
by motor trucks. The sheets in this instance extended out beyond the 
end of the car on which it was loaded. The motor truck slid in crossing 
slippery dinkey tracks, and the end car was switched around, the sheet 
iron striking the patient, while he stood in a narrow doorway where 
he could not escape. 

" Extent of Injury. The external ham string tendons and muscles 
were completely severed in two places about an inch apart, in the 
popliteal area and the outer aspect of the thigh; the wound was very 
dirty, so was the patient's skin. The large vessels were not cut. 

" Surgical Treatment. Tincture of iodin was applied and the patient 
was removed at once from the Works Dispensary to the Westinghouse 
Ward in the Braddock General Hospital, Braddock, Pa. Vicinity of 
the wound was carefully shaved, and cleaned with gasoline, then 
tincture of iodin was lavishly used in and about the wound. Severed 
tendons, muscles, and fascia were approximated with catgut sutures, 
which also controlled the bleeding. The fascia lata could not be en- 
tirely approximated, but nature evidently filled in the defect. Iodo- 
form gauze drain was inserted, to care for oozing, and leg was dressed 
in fixation dressings, at approximately 10 flexion. There was no 
infection at any time, and the patient was comfortable; healing was 
nearly as rapid as in a surgical, non-traumatic wound. 

"Comment. We are of the opinion that the immediate use of 
tincture of iodin gave us superior results, and the preliminary use of 






EMERGENCY SURGERY 519 

Dakin's solution before closing the wound would not have been 
justifiable. 

"3. Alfred Jackson, K20-107. 

"Injured 9/20/17, still under treatment. 

"Mode of Accident. First day at work, had been on the job just 
3^4 hours. A terminal fell behind the carriage of a milling machine. 
Without stopping the machine, he reached behind the carriage for the 
terminal; the carriage drew his forearm against the saw. 

' ' Extent of Inj ury . The saw lacerated the soft tissues of his forearm, 
severing all the muscles and other structures, exposing both bones of 
the forearm. Severe arterial hemorrhage. 

" Surgical Treatment. Tincture of iodin applied. Tourniquet 
applied to the arm did not adequately control the squirting arteries. 
Four bleeding points were sutured in the works dispensary. Tincture 
of iodin was freely used, and he was sent to the Westinghouse Ward 
in the Braddock General Hospital, Braddock, Pa. 

" Foreign matter was removed from the wound, the muscles and 
fascia were approximated with catgut sutures; the median nerve was 
also sutured. The surgeon was too busy suturing to count the number 
of muscles that had to be united, nor did he count the number of 
buried sutures. 

"The wound has healed kindly, there has been no pus. He has a 
fair functional recovery of the use of the hand, but he has not yet 
sufficiently recovered strength in the hand to be able to resume work. 

" Comment. When such a wound can be treated the hour of the 
injury, the use of tincture of iodin as an antiseptic permits of closing 
the wound. Even should infection arise, which is always a possibility, 
though infection is a rare occurrence, when rubber gloves are used and 
antiseptics are freely employed the wound can be opened, drained, 
and Dakin's solution resorted to, to control the infection." 

The general and local measures employed in the immediate emer- 
gency care of the patient have a very direct bearing on the prevention 
of infections. 

Rest is one of the most essential preventive measures. By rest 
the body is enabled to overcome the shock and general injury which 
it has received when an accident occurs and can thus more rapidly 
recuperate those body forces necessary to combat the invading 
bacteria. 

Thus the gentlest manipulation of the injured member with early 
immobilization is required to give this needed rest. In the severer 
injuries rest for the entire body should be afforded as soon as possible. 
Comfort, warmth and nourishment are necessary adjuncts to the 
rapid recuperation of the body forces. 

When it is necessary to remove the clothing to expose the injured 



520 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

region the same should be cut away rather than the slower and more 
painful method of undressing the patient. 

The cleansing of the wound is another important preventive 
measure. No injured part should be unnecessarily handled in securing 
this cleansing. Neither should any method be employed which would 
tend to grind dirt or other infected material deeper into the wound. 
For this reason, washing the wound with soap and water or with 
bichlorid solution, or other lotion is practically obsolete. The author 
has frequently seen nurses and surgical assistants, especially the latter 
when they are lay assistants, and even the enlisted medical personnel 
in the army wash open wounds with water, then with bichlorid, then 
with alcohol, dabbing at them and otherwise abusing the injured 
tissues until it is no wond:r that in ections occur. One of the most 
essential things to teach these assistants is to leave these wounds alone. 
Even many surgeons have yet to learn this lesson. Bleeding should 
not be checked immediately in any wound as this usually is nature's 
method of washing it out. After painting the injury with tincture of 
iodin the adjacent skin can best be cleansed with gasoline, benzin, or 
alcohol. If the dirty skin about the wound is thoroughly painted with 
iodin even this cleansing is not necessary. However, the patients 
often feel that their injury is neglected if the adjacent surface of the 
body, especially that portion immediately under the dressing, is not 
cleansed. I never dress a fresh wound without carefully explaining 
to the patient my reasons for not washing it with soap and water, 
or otherwise insulting the parts. Taking the patient into your 
confidence and explaining such details as this is one of the best ways 
of securing his co-operation and is a procedure in emergency surgery 
which is too often neglected, especially by the young surgeon, fresh 
from hospital or dispensary training. When a wound occurs in the 
hairy parts of the body, shaving should be a routine cleansing meas- 
ure. Before shaving the hair next to the wound it should be painted 
with iodin. A sharp razor should be used so that dry shaving can 
be done. Always shave away from the wound. Any loose hair 
falling into the wound should be carefully removed with sterile forceps. 

All foreign material which has entered the wound should be 
removed. This should not be done until the wound has been treated 
with tincture of iodin and then should be accompanied with the least 
possible manipulation of the injured tissues. The probing of wounds 
with the finger is a dangerous practice and in the few cases where 
necessary a sterile rubber glove should always be worn. When the 
entering wound is small and one is convinced that infected material 
has been carried into deeper tissues the opening should be enlarged 
and the foreign material carefully removed by sterile forceps. When 
small pieces of steel or bullets penetrate the body these should be 






EMERGENCY SURGERY 521 

carefully located by x-ray before an effort is made to remove them, 
unless their location is so evident that the operation can be readily 
performed. Many such small pieces of foreign material enter the 
body and never cause any trouble if proper sterilization of the tract is 
accomplished. In fact, meddlesome interference in these cases is often 
more harmful than if the part was left absolutely alone. Here again 
the keenest surgical judgment is necessary and is only developed by 
experience. In accident surgery in industry the foreign materials 
usually penetrating the tissues are splinters, particles of clothing, pieces 
of steel or pieces of a tool which broke off after penetrating the body, 
such as a needle so common among garment makers. The removal 
of these materials is usually essential to the prevention of infections. 

All loose tags of skin or other soft tissues so damaged that they 
are bound to become necrotic should be trimmed away. If the wound 
is seen after several hours and has been caused by an object which 
undoubtedly will cause the tissue to become infected, the tract of the 
wound may be thoroughly dissected, sterilized and closed as is being 
practised in war surgery to-day. As a general rule, however, every 
effort should be made to save all of the soft parts so as to 
better facilitate closing and healing. When loose particles of bone 
which have been deprived of periosteum are scattered about the 
wound these should be removed. Bone adherent to the periosteum 
should be replaced. 

Drainage is a very essential factor in the prevention of infections 
and when to and when not to insert drainage into a wound requires 
most careful consideration on the part of the surgeon. As a general 
rule, incised wounds which have been treated with iodin or similar 
reliable antiseptic can be closed without drainage. Extensive lacer- 
ated wounds even though treated immediately with an antiseptic can 
be closed but only after drainage is established. Severe crushing 
wounds or deep penetrating wounds after sterilization should only be 
partially closed, sufficient opening being left for the introduction of 
good drainage. Wounds already showing signs of infection should 
never be completely closed and thorough drainage is usually indicated. 
An exception to this may be in the case of small incised wounds, mildly 
infected, which can be thoroughly sterilized and then closed with only 
small drainage provided. 

Many kinds of drainage material are used. In large wounds rubber 
tubing or a section of tubing, twisted rubber or gutta percha are best 
adapted for drainage. In many cases, especially if hemorrhage is 
profuse, gauze is required but as a rule gauze drainage tends to act as 
a pack and defeats its own purpose. Plain sterile gauze is now used 
for drainage just as often as iodoform gauze, formalin gauze or other 
such chemically treated material. In smaller wounds a small rubber 



522 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

band, or two or three strands of silk gut twisted together, affords 
excellent drainage. 

The question of closing the wound often plays an important part 
in infection prevention. Many wounds which were formerly left open 
are now treated with iodin and then carefully closed without ever 
becoming infected, whereas if left open healing is delayed and the 
dangers of subsequent infection increased. Careless coaptation of 
the tissues, leaving dead spaces in the tissues below the skin have 
frequently resulted in infections. Over-zealousness in coaptation 
may shut off the blood supply and cause necrosis of the edge of the 
wound followed by infection. Frequently one sees a good surgeon, 
who otherwise has the most perfect technic in the operating room, 
suturing one of these emergency cases without observing any of the 
finer points in asepsis. A wound which is to be closed by sutures in 
the office or the dispensary should be carefully sterilized, surrounded 
by sterile gauze or a small sheet, resembling a miniature laparotomy 
sheet, and treated only after the hands and instruments have likewise 
been sterilized. Sterile suturing material should be used and should 
not be allowed to drag across unclean portions of the patient's body 
while being inserted. 

Tetanus (Lockjaw). This infection, due to the Bacillus tetani 
is one of the most feared complications following injuries. In order to 
prevent this infection some surgeons have advised the injection of an 
immunizing dose of tetanus antitoxin in all punctured or lacerated 
wounds. Ten years ago this prophylactic measure was used quite 
extensively in industry. However, with the increased use of antiseptics 
and the more immediate treatment of wounds by the surgeon antitoxin 
has become less necessary. In the first year of the war many soldiers 
died of lockjaw. To combatj_this, antitoxin was administered at the 
first aid station farthest front. The wonderful results obtained 
by the use of this prophylaxis proved the great value of antitoxin. 
These wounds were practically all soil infected. 

In industry it is only the occasional wound which is soil infected. 
The patient whose foot is crushed by an automobile or a truck on the 
street is a logical case for antitoxin but the foot crushed by machinery 
or falling timber in the plant or even by the locomotive on the railroad 
track where the dirt consists chiefly of cinders, is very seldom in danger 
of developing lockjaw providing thorough sterilization with iodin 
can take plice within the first hour. We must not think it 
necessary to give every industrial wound an immunizing dose of 
tetanus antitoxin when we .once more return to our private work. 
Here again the judgment of the surgeon must not be warped by our 
experience in war surgery. Nevertheless we will all be more faithful 






EMERGENCY SURGERY 523 

in administering it in the suspicious cases where soil infection makes 
lockjaw imminent. 

In the author's experience, antitetanic serum as a prophylaxis 
was only administered routinely during the first year of his emergency 
surgery. No cases of lockjaw developed during that year and neither 
have any cases developed among the employees under his care during 
the succeeding nine years. His predecessor in the same industry- 
used tetanus antitoxin on every puncture wound due to nails and on 
all severe lacerated wounds. The records show that three cases of 
tetanus developed during the period he was in charge. I am convinced 
that in this industrial work the thorough sterilization of the wound 
by tincture of iodin makes the need of the immunizing dose of anti- 
toxin practically unnecessary, thereby limiting its use to the occasional 
soil infected case. 

When the immunizing dose is given it consists of from 500 to 1000 
c.c. of antitoxin injected subcutaneously above the wound. Some 
insist on injecting it directly into the nearest nerve trunk. 

Hemorrhages. Hemorrhage is another complication, especially 
in extensive wounds, which it is always necessary to prevent. This 
is accomplished by firmly packing the wound or by applying a thick 
sterile gauze dressing and firmly binding in place or by clamping the 
bleeding vessels with clamps left on for several hours, or by the direct 
application of ligatures to the bleeding points. When ligatures are 
necessary in the emergency treatment of these extensive wounds 
it is well to leave their ends long in order to easily locate the bleeding 
vessels in case of subsequent hemorrhage. At times it may be neces- 
sary to use a tourniquet for two or three hours in order to control and 
prevent subsequent hemorrhage. Such a continued use of the tour- 
niquet should always be under the direct supervision of the surgeon 
and great care should be exercised to prevent subsequent gangrene. 

Deformity. Deformity naturally is more often due to the severity 
of the wound and to that extent is beyond the control of the surgeon. 
But in every case the physician must begin thinking of the prevention 
of undue deformities at the time he administers the emergency treat- 
ment and must continue to constantly think along these lines 
during the subsequent treatments. Many a case of deformity can 
be prevented by immediately restoring the limb to its proper position 
whereas if this is left for some future treatment permanent damage 
may have occurred. In preventing infections one is likewise pre- 
venting the dangers of deformity. 

COMBAT IMMEDIATE COMPLICATIONS 

Impending Death. In emergency surgery the physician faces some 
of his greatest battles against impending death and many a case is 



524 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

saved by the experienced surgeon who does nothing with the wound 
in such a crisis but devotes his entire attention to assisting the patient 
to overcome the terrific shock which is threatening his life. On the 
other hand many a case is lost in this critical moment by manipulating 
the injured part or attempting surgical procedures before this shock is 
overcome. This can best be illustrated by two cases which the author 
observed in two different hospitals during the same day: 

Case One: A man was carried into the hospital after being run 
over by a street car. His left thigh was crushed to the hip-joint 
and was held in place only by the gluteal muscles. There was a warm 
bed in the receiving ward held in readiness for such shock cases. 
After cutting the trouser leg away from this wound the surgeon 
simply clamped the femoral vessel which was exposed but not bleeding 
and then covered the wound with a large sterile pad and immediately 
placed the man, with his clothes on, in the warm bed. No further 
attention was paid to the injured part, but by means of salt solution 
intravenously, hot coffee per rectum and stimulants the shock was 
combated for the next ten hours. The wound was watched carefully 
for possible hemorrhage following the use of the stimulants and 
salt solution but only once was it necessary to apply an additional 
artery forceps. After the immediate danger of death was over- 
come the wound was sterilized by pouring iodin over it but no other 
effort was made toward repair until all signs of shock were over- 
come. Twelve hours later the patient was subjected to a hasty 
amputation at the hip-joint under ether anesthesia but no time 
was consumed in endeavoring to carefully coapt the various layers 
of tissue. This was left for a subsequent operation when the patient's 
condition warranted it. This man made an excellent recovery 
without infection. 

Case Two: That night the author was called to another hospital 
to see a man who had been run over by a nearby street car and who was 
immediately carried to the hospital. This patient had likewise 
suffered a severe crushing wound at the hip-joint and in many respects 
was almost identical with the other case. The patient had been 
immediately carried to the operating room and the physician who was 
called in to give emergency care had started combating the shock 
but at the same time had proceeded to give surgical attention to the 
wound. The patient's body and right limb were covered with blankets 
and hot water bottles were in place. Normal salt solution was being 
administered intravenously, stimulants had been given. While the 
patient was being anesthetized with ether, the physician had pro- 
ceeded to cut away the mangled limb and was carefully coapting the 
various tissues. I arrived at this stage and recommended the imme- 
diate application of a large sterile pad to the stump, leaving subsequent 









EMERGENCY SURGERY 525 

repair to some future date if the patient recovered. This was doubtful 
considering his condition at that moment. Before this recommenda- 
tion could be acted upon the patient died. 

Too much emphasis cannot be placed upon the importance of 
combating these severe shock conditions before attempting any 
radical emergency treatment of the wound itself. The surgeon must 
have the patience of an obstetrician in such cases and stick by the 
patient, biding the time till it is safe to proceed with the repair 
work. 

Shock and Hemorrhage. Shock and hemorrhage, either singly 
or combined, play an important part in the complications which an 
emergency surgeon must combat immediately following an accident. 
There are all grades of both shock and hemorrhage and both may occur 
immediately (primary) or late (secondary or delayed). Both may 
gradually lead to a condition spoken of as "collapse" and death 
may follow this state. 

Previous to the war these conditions were most thoroughly de- 
scribed by Crile and his methods of treating them have played an im- 
portant part in the treatment of our soldiers affected by these con- 
ditions. During this period of war surgery, research in the field of 
shock and hemorrhage have added considerably to our knowledge 
of these subjects and the emergency surgeon in industry should famil- 
iarize himself with these various reports from the war zone in France. 

One of the interesting contributions of the physiologic changes 
which take place in the body during traumatic shock has appeared 
recently in the report from the Central Medical Department Labora- 
tory of the American Expeditionary Forces in France, under the title 
of "The critical level of a falling blood-pressure and the modifications 
of hemorrhage." 

"Clinical and experimental observations have shown that death 
after severe hemorrhage is not immediate, but may occur after the 
lapse of some hours. This fact is explained by the gradual damage of 
essential organs by partial anemia until they fail to perform their 
functions. If hemorrhage is repeated, non-volatile acid (lactic) 
will appear in the blood. Other conditions which markedly lessen 
the oxygen supply to the tissues (CO poisoning, rebreathing expired 
air), have the same effect. Lactic acid thus produced unites with 
the sodium of the sodium bicarbonate in the blood, drives off CO 2 , 
and thereby produces a reduction of the "alkali reserve" (indicated 
by a diminished capacity of the plasma to take up CO 2 ). When the 
CO 2 capacity is reduced to less than 50 volumes per cent., under 
standard conditions, "acidosis" is said to be present. Reduction 
of the alkali reserve in such circumstances, may be taken as an in- 
dication of insufficient oxygen supply to the tissues. 



526 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



"As arterial blood-pressure falls, the rate of circulation of the blood 
decreases. Then, though the red blood corpuscles leave the lungs 
normally laden with oxygen, they may not carry a normal supply 
to the tissues because they move too slowly. In that case the condition 
would be similar to other conditions in which oxygen want exists; 
non-volatile acid would result, and the alkali reserve be lessened. 

"In traumatic shock the blood-pressure is low and the circulation 
is therefore sluggish. For therapeutic purposes, it is important 
to know at what point in a falling blood-pressure, the oxygen supply 
begins to be insufficient, as indicated by a lessening of the alkali reserve. 

"Experiments in the Laboratory of Surgical Research at the Central 
Medical Department Laboratory have shown that if arterial pressure is 
lowered to 80 mm. of mercury for an hour, the alkali reserve is not 
reduced; but if lowered to 70 mm., the reserve begins to fall; and if 
lowered to 60 mm., it falls still faster (i.e., the oxygen supply is less 
adequate, and the production of non-volatile acid is more rapid). A 
critical level of oxygen supply to the tissues is reached, therefore, when 
the arterial pressure is experimentally lowered to less than 80 mm. of 
mercury. Average figures from 43 cases of shock and hemorrhage 
studied last summer at Bethune reveal in human beings similar 
relations : 



Systolic blood-pressure, 
mm. mercury 


Average COs capacity, 
vols. per cent. 


No. of cases 


90-100 


% 

49 


12 


. 80- 90 


49 


5 


70- 80 


43 


10 


60- 70 


36 


11 


50- 60 


24 


5 



"As these figures clearly show, a reduction of the alkali reserve 
below 50 volumes per cent. CO 2 capacity, or a condition of "acidosis," 
occurred when the systolic pressure was lower than 80 mm. of mercury; 
and the reduction of the reserve was progressive as the pressure was 
progressively lower. It appears, therefore, that the critical level 
for proper oxygen supply to the tissues is approximately 80 mm. 
of mercury, systolic arterial pressure. The lower the pressure below 
that level, the less is the circulation able to meet the needs of the tissues. 

"Experiments show, as might be expected, that if hemorrhage 
complicates a low blood-pressure, the critical level is higher than if 
no loss of blood has occurred. Thus, if 20 per cent, of the blood has 
been lost, the pressure cannot be lowered to 80 mm. without indica- 
tions of insufficient, oxygen supply to the tissues. 

"In the treatment of shock and hemorrhage, the persistence of 




EMERGENCY SURGERY 527 

arterial pressure below 90 mm. of mercury for more than a half hour, 
without sign of improvement, though the patient has been warmed 
and rested, should call for treatment by transfusion of blood or the 
infusion of acacia solution. If the pressure is much below 90 mm., 
e.g., 50 or 60 mm., such treatment should be instituted immediately." 

The symptoms of shock are most graphically described by John 
J. Moorhead as follows: 

"A typical case presents rather a characteristic appearance in that 
the patient immediately after the accident is unconscious or nearly 
so; the surface of the body is pale, cold and sweaty; the expression is 
anxious; the eyes are shut or widely open; the pupils are dull, usually 
dilated, and slowly responsive; respiration is shallow and feeble and 
often intermittently sighing; the pulse is weak, compressible and ir- 
regular, and often slow and inactive; if very arousable, mental tor- 
pidity is the rule; sometimes the sphincters are relaxed and nausea 
and vomiting may occur; the temperature is subnormal or slightly 
elevated at first. After some minutes, or later, these patients grad- 
ually become aroused, the color returns, the mind clears, the pulse 
and respiration strengthen, and they recover." 

Other much more severe grades may remain in a state of mental 
and physical depression or mental torpor for many hours and even 
die in deepening coma from shock alone, although death from this 
source independently is quite rare and should not be accepted as a 
sole cause in the absence of an autopsy. 

In some instances a condition of apathy is replaced by one of ir- 
regular activity of a somewhat delirious type, this occurring especially 
with head injuries and with alcoholics; this is a so-called erethistic as 
distinguished from the apathetic or ordinary form, and it is very closely 
allied to traumatic delirium. 

Secondary or delayed shock may appear from several hours to two 
or three days after an accident. It is most frequently due to hemor- 
rhage or may appear after an anesthetic operative procedure has been 
undertaken. 

Hemorrhage gives almost the same symptoms of shock especially 
as the two so Often occur together. A patient without much shock, 
however, who is hemorrhaging, will gradually develop these symptoms. 
Increasing pallor is noticed; the pulse becomes soft and compressible, 
at first rapid but gradually becoming slower and irregular; the patient 
yawns frequently and complains of thirst; the blood-pressure be- 
comes lower and lower. Unless the condition is checked a state of 
collapse gradually develops, followed by coma and death. 

Secondary or delayed hemorrhages frequently occur in accident 
surgery and in severe injuries the surgeon should constantly be on 
the lookout for the above symptoms. 



528 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

When shock and hemorrhage are coincidental as is so often the case 
in those accidents diagnosed as internal injuries, it is often very diffi- 
cult to differentiate between the two. It is very important to make 
this differentiation, however, as the treatment must frequently be 
modified where the two exist together. For instance, when shock 
alone is present, the repair work may be postponed until the patient's 
condition is improved, but if shock and hemorrhage are both present 
or if the shock is solely due to hemorrhage, the finding and checking 
of the source of bleeding is the paramount consideration. Often 
the stimulation and especially the transfusions which are administered 
in case of shock may increase or even create a hemorrhage. Therefore, 
in combating shock, one must constantly be on the lookout for hemor- 
rhage and ready to immediately check the same. As Moorhead so 
aptly states, "shock patients get better, while bleeding patients often 
get worse during treatment and lapse of time." 

The treatment of these conditions is similar after the hemorrhage 
is controlled. In fact the treatment of both must often be instituted 
while endeavoring to check the hemorrhage. 

The ordinary shock patient will recover from this state very shortly 
by. the simple methods of rest; keep thoroughly warm; no manipulation 
of the injured part or if necessary, the very gentlest; lowering the 
head, and stimulation. The severe cases demand all of the above 
and in addition, transfusion or infusion of normal salt solution with 
or without adrenalin, the infusion of acacia solution, or the transfusion 
of blood. The delay in administering the more heroic methods has 
caused a fatal termination of many a case which otherwise might 
have been saved. As one observer in the war zone has said, " Necessity 
for transfusion or infusion in cases of shock with or not the further 
cause of low pressure resulting from hemorrhage can be detected 
earlier and with greater certainty by a series of blood-pressure obser- 
vations than by other means. A warmed, rested patient showing a 
persistent arterial pressure below 90 mm. of mercury needs help at 
once and the help he needs is infusion or transfusion." 

In industrial surgery the majority of these shock and hemorrhage 
cases will or should receive their emergency .treatment in the plant 
dispensary. They are the type of cases which formerly so frequently 
died in the ambulance on the way to the hospital. The bringing of 
the surgeon to the front line trench in industry has prevented many 
such deaths. The time is coming when a very hazardous industry 
must provide this immediate treatment. 

Every plant surgeon should be thoroughly drilled in the follow- 
ing treatment of a patient brought to the dispensary on account of 
severe injuries: 

1. Immediately place on a bed or on the dressing table and cover 






EMERGENCY SURGERY 529 

all parts of the body except the injured portion with warm blankets, 
and surround the body with hot water bottles. Elevate the foot 
of the bed. (My surgical nurse carries out this procedure in all cases 
of injury whether shock symptoms are present or not, automatically 
attending to the comfort of the patient without any directions from 
the surgeon.) 

2. If shock symptoms are present, administer at once a hypo- 
dermic of morphin. If the condition of shock is mild, this may be 
replaced by aromatic spirits of ammonia. 

3. While this treatment is being carried out, carefully inspect 
the injured part, clamp all bleeding points, sterilize with iodin and 
cover with a sterile pad. Don't take time to carefully bandage. 
Direct the rest of your attention to combating the shock, meanwhile 
watching the wound carefully for a recurring hemorrhage. 

4. If the condition of the pulse or the lowered blood-pressure 
(the nurse or an assistant has already taken the blood-pressure and 
continues to do so at frequent intervals) show the need of cardiac 
stimulation, strychnia one-thirtieth of a grain may be given, or better, 
adrenalin or camphor. 

The author keeps two things constantly ready for shock cases, 
namely, a sterile glass irrigation jar containing sterile tubes with 
sterile needles attached for the infusion or transfusion of normal salt 
solution; and a fountain syringe with a large size catheter attached 
for the administration of hot normal salt, six ounces, and whiskey, 
two ounces, per rectum. While the above procedures are being carried 
out, the surgical nurse and her assistant sets up this apparatus and 
fills the first with the sterile normal salt solution and the latter with 
the normal salt and whiskey solution. They do this even though 
later their use may be found unnecessary. 

5. If the shock is severe and the blood-pressure indicates its need, 
an infusion or transfusion of normal salt solution should immediately 
be given, at the same time starting the rectal stimulation. The body 
must not be unduly exposed but must be kept warm during this entire 
treatment. 

6. Do not move the patient from the dispensary to the general 
hospital until this condition of shock has been overcome. As a rule, 
after three or four hours, even these extreme cases can be moved to 
the hospital. Gentleness and great care must attend this transpor- 
tation and the surgeon should stay constantly by his patient, even 
riding in the ambulance with him. 

Unless the danger of delaying an operation is of greater menace 
to the patient's life than the shock condition, all operative procedures 
should be postponed until the latter is overcome. The need for an 
immediate operation may cause the patient to be rushed to the hos- 

34 



530 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

pital at once. Contrary to the opinions of many, such a case usually 
stands the effect of an anesthetic very well, the patient's condition 
seeming to improve after the anesthetic has started. Frequently 
the symptoms of shock return and the condition becomes critical 
during the operative procedure. Crile's method of blocking the nerves 
above the site of the injury by injection will often prevent this re- 
currence of shock during an operation. 

Blood transfusion has usually been considered an operative pro- 
cedure suitable only for the hospital. Recent experience has proven 
that quick methods of blood transfusion by the use of a large hypo- 
dermic syringe containing 2 per cent, solution of sodium citrate, so 
that when the syringe is filled there will be one part citrate to ten 
parts of the donor's blood, can be administered with good effect to 
these hemorrhage and shock patients. Undoubtedly, one of the ad- 
vances in surgery as a result of the war will be a commoner use of blood 
transfusion. 

Resuscitation. The method of artificial respiration for com- 
bating certain types of shock, suffocation, asphyxiation and similar 
conditions has been fully described in the chapter on First Aid. In 
addition to this, many industrial dispensaries, especially in those in- 
dustries where electrical shock, gas poisoning or asphyxiation are liable 
to occur, have included pulmotors as a part of their equipment. 
Many surgeons claim excellent results from the use of these pulmotors. 
Universal approval of the various devices for automatically forcing 
respiration has not been given, some authorities claiming that this 
procedure is dangerous. There is no question, however, but that this 
method has been very successful in many cases of gas asphyxiations. 

Circulatory artificial stimulation is another means of resuscitation 
which should be employed. Rhythmic pressure over the heart area, 
the tongue being drawn out, combines circulatory with respiratory 
stimulation, according to Crile. Some have advocated the digital 
rhythmic compression of the heart itself but the success of this method 
is very doubtful. 

Freezing or Frost-bites. Third degree frost-bites, that is, those 
with deep ulcerations, destruction of tissue and even gangrene, are 
not usually seen in industrial practice. Frost-bites of the first degree 
producing redness and swelling of the skin are not uncommon and some 
even show the blebs or blisters of the second degree frost-bites. The 
combating of immediate complications in frost-bites aims at the res- 
toration of circulation. Such patients should not be taken into a warm 
temperature at once but gradually. Friction and cold applications 
afford the greatest relief. Cracked ice applied direct to the frost- 
bitten member and rubbed back and forth with increasing vigor is the 
best method. 



EMERGENCY SURGERY 531 

The patient that has suffered an extreme case of freezing should 
be placed in a cold bath in a cold room and friction applied by cold 
towels. Gradually the temperature of the bath and the room is in- 
creased until the appearance of the body indicates that circulation 
has been re-established. 

Heat Exhaustion. Heat exhaustion is not uncommon among 
employees during the summer months when they must work in hot 
places. Heat exhaustion is really a collapse from the effects of 
neat. 

Such a patient develops an extreme pallor; the skin is covered 
with a clammy perspiration; his pulse is weak and rapid, and respira- 
tion is rapid and shallow; the patient is never unconscious but may 
be in a state of collapse; the temperature is rarely over lOS^F. and 
may be subnormal. 

The patient should be immediately removed to a cool room, should 
lie down with the head lowered, the body should be covered with a 
blanket and aromatic spirits of ammonia administered. In extreme 
cases, rectal stimulation with normal salt and whiskey and hot coffee, 
is beneficial. Such patients usually require rest, comfort and mild 
stimulation to early overcome this condition. 

Sunstroke. This condition is usually caused by prolonged ex- 
posure to the direct rays of the sun or it may be due to excessive 
heat indoors. The symptoms develop suddenly. The face is flushed 
and the skin of the body is hot and dry. The temperature of the body 
is greatly increased, ranging from 103F. to as high as 109F., even 
more in fatal cases. The pulse is rapid and bounding, later followed 
by a weak, irregular pulse. At first the respiration is stertorous, 
later becoming rapid and shallow. 

The treatment in this condition consists in reducing the temperature 
of the body as quickly as possible. It is done by ice water sponging 
or by placing the patient in a cold bath the temperature of which is 
gradually decreased by the application of ice. This is kept up until 
the body temperature is lowered and consciousness returns. On 
the first indication of the return of high temperature this treatment 
should be repeated. After the patient is placed in bed ice bags should 
be placed on his head. A very sudden drop in temperature usually 
indicates a fatal termination. At the same time the collapse must 
be treated by cardiac stimulation, strychnia and caffein being most 
commonly employed, and by the use of salt solution and whiskey 
per rectum. 

Every industrial dispensary should be equipped for the emergency 
treatment of both heat exhaustion and sunstroke. After a fatal 
case of sunstroke, the author had a bath tub installed in both the 
men's and women's toilets in connection with the doctor's office. 



532 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

These have only been needed in two cases of sunstroke since their in- 
stallation but both cases were saved. 

The combating of the immediate complications in the three last 
named conditions makes up a definite part of the emergency surgeon's 
work in industrial practice. 

TEMPORARY AND PERMANENT RELIEF 

The majority of emergency surgery in industry consists of the im- 
mediate permanent treatment of wounds, the patient returning to 
work, and reporting to the doctor's office for his subsequent treat- 
ment. In some cases the permanent relief will be given at the dis- 
pensary and the patient is then sent to 'his home or to a hospital for 
the subsequent treatment. 

Many employees receiving fractures, severe lacerations, crushing 
wounds and loss of members will be given temporary relief at the 
dispensary and then sent to a hospital where the permanent repair 
is given in surroundings better adapted to major work. 

Emergency surgery administered for either the temporary or 
permanent relief usually involve the following methods: 

Closure of Wounds. Consideration was given to this procedure 
under the subhead of preventing infections. As a rule, the incised 
wounds and the majority of lacerated wounds received by employees 
can be closed after sterilization has been done. Many of these cases 
will require a small rubber band, a wick of gauze or two or three 
strands of twisted silk gut for drainage, the same to be removed after 
twenty-four or forty-eight hours. The majority of penetrating 
wounds and even the severe, crushing wounds, after sterilization, 
the removal of all foreign bodies, and the repair of the deeper 
tissues, can be closed providing the doctor receives these cases early. 
In many of these, small drainage is often indicated. As a general 
rule, the compound fractures should be sterilized, thoroughly drained, 
and not completely closed. The treatment of such wounds, as 
developed by war surgery, is described under the chapter on Fractures. 

The commonest method employed for the closure of wounds is 
that of suturing with catgut, horsehair, silkworm gut, or silk and linen, 
all thoroughly sterilized. Catgut is almost universally used in the 
repair of deeper tissues. Some use it in the skin but a majority of 
the surgeons prefer non-absorbable material. The author has used cat- 
gut for the closure of many skin wounds and when iodin was used 
religiously, has never had any difficulty with infections. As a routine 
measure, however, silk, linen and horsehair are best employed in 
emergency work. 

During the last five years, the author has not employed suturing 
in more than 10 per cent, of his cases. Narrow strips of adhesive 



EMERGENCY SURGERY 



533 




Fio. 78. Strip of adhesive plaster 
sterilized with iodin at point of con- 
tact with wound. Used in place of 
suture. 



plaster will coapt the skin edges of a wound as thoroughly as suturing, 
except in those regions where considerable tension is brought to bear 
upon the skin as in the movement of a joint. The method for the 
closure of wounds by adhesive plaster is as follows: 

1. Adhesive plaster is cut in one- 
quarter inch strips and in lengths 
varying from one inch to eight or ten 
inches depending on the location of the 
wound. 

2. That portion of the adhesive 
plaster which comes in direct contact 
with the wound is thoroughly painted 
with tincture of iodin and allowed to 

dry. Care is exercised in not touching the middle portion of the 
strip thus sterilized. (See Fig. 78.) 

3. The wound which has pre- 
viously been sterilized with tincture 
of iodin is held together by the sterile 
ringers of the left hand while each 
adhesive strip, which has previously 
been attached to the skin on one side 
of the wound, is drawn snugly across 
and attached to the skin on the other 
side. Additional strips are thus ap- 
plied until the wound is completely 
closed. A quarter of an inch space is 
left between each strip! This allows 
for the natural oozing of the wound. 
(See Fig. 79.) 

4. Tincture of iodin is now painted 
over the adhesive strips. 

5. A sterile dry gauze dressing is 
placed over the wound and adhesive 
strips. 

6. In large wounds with consider- 
able gaping where it is difficult to 
coapt the edges or where tension 
would ordinarily indicate the use of 
tension sutures, a small roll of sterile 
gauze can be placed on either side of 
the wound and a longer and wider 
strip of adhesive plaster can be drawn 

tightly over these so as to cause inward pressure on the wound by the 
gauze rolls. 




FIG. 79. A cotton bandage, cut 
to the circumference of the limb, 
edges bound with adhesive plaster 
into which eyelets are fixed, and a 
tape for lacing affords a rapid method 
of bandaging. 



534 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

Adhesive strips are of no value when moist dressings are to be 
applied to the wound. 

The greatest value of adhesive strips over the old method of suturing 
is in the psychologic effect on the employees. Previously, workmen, 
especially foreigners, would stay away from the doctor's office for fear 
their incised wound would be stitched. Some time ago the author 
overheard an employee who had just received this adhesive plaster 
treatment, remark to a fellow employee, ''Say, those docs, up there 
are all right. They don't butcher a fellow all up or stick a needle 
through every little cut like that doctor at the mill used to do. I won't 
be afraid to go up there any more." Such favorable propaganda as 
this, spread throughout the working force, increases the usefulness 
and value of the doctor's office. 

Metal clamps of the Michel type are used by some plant surgeons 
but even when not painful, they have an unfavorable psychologic 
effect upon the employee. 

The closure of wounds by sealing them up with collodium is a 
dangerous practice. The wound secretions, clogged up under the 
collodium dressing, often form a favorable seat for infection. One 
foreman objected to his men losing so much time in going to the 
doctor's office to have minor wounds properly attended to. He 
procured a bottle of hydrogen peroxid and another bottle of col- 
lodium and some cotton, and proceeded to care for these minor cuts- 
and abrasions himself. Two serious infections shortly occurred 
among the employees treated by him. He was not discharged but 
the management published his folly broadcast throughout the plant 
and such individual efforts as these immediately ceased. Further, 
foremen were more keenly alive to the importance of sending these 
minor cases to the doctor's office. 

Great care should be exercised in the closing of wounds to prevent 
scar formation, especially on the face or exposed portions of the body. 
In linear wounds, the adhesive strips will cause healing with less of a 
scar than where sutures are used. However, in jagged wounds on the 
face, stitches should be employed in order to secure less of a scar. 
In such cases, fine horsehair is the best material. 

Fainting. Fainting is very prone to occur during this minor 
emergency surgery. It is best to have patients lie down when their 
wounds are being closed. If they are allowed to sit up, they should 
be carefully watched, and if pallor, clammy perspiration, dilated pupils, 
yawning, or a complaint of dizziness or blindness is made, they should 
immediately lie down. Often when the dressing can best be accom- 
plished by the patient sitting up, if any of these signs are noted, the faint 
can be avoided by having the patient lean over with his head between 
his knees. A few whiffs of aromatic spirits of ammonia or even a 






EMERGENCY SURGERY 535 

drink of water will prevent many faints. Such patients should be 
given plenty of fresh air. When a person faints in the dispensary, 
the other patients must be carefully watched as frequently two or 
three of these may topple over. I have seen several ugly scalp wounds 
received by patients allowed to fall in faints and for this reason 
caution should always be taken to prevent them. I have always 
insisted that the patients who faint in the dispensary, must he down 
for a few moments in the rest room before returning to work. 

Immobilization. The importance of the immediate immobiliza- 
tion of fractures is brought out in the chapter on the same. For this 
purpose, several different types of splints should always be on hand. 

In severe incised, lacerated wounds or crushing wounds near 
joints, the member should be immobilized with a light splint in order 
to put it absolutely at rest. This will not only prevent the wound from 
being torn open by movements but is an excellent means of preventing 
infection. 

All sprains should be immobilized. This can be accomplished by 
the use of splints, but often binding by two or three layers of adhesive 
plaster will afford the necessary rest for the part. In applying 
adhesive plaster to the skin, all hair should be carefully shaved away. 
It is inexcusable for any surgeon to apply adhesive plaster over a 
hairy area, even though it be the few hairs found around the foot 
and ankle, and cause thereby the needless pain to the patient when 
the same is removed. In some cases a cotton or flannel bandage can 
first be applied over the sprained joint and this can then be reinforced 
by adhesive plaster strips. If swelling of the part is anticipated the 
adhesive strips should not meet in the middle line. 

In extensive injuries to the soft parts of the upper extremity 
both immobilization and rest can be gained by the use of the tri- 
angular sling. Often, rest in bed with sand bags placed on either side 
of the injured member, affords the best method of immobilization and 
rest. This is well illustrated in the case of hand infections where 
immobilization of the entire upper extremity is very important for 
rapid recovery. The patient should be put to bed with the arm ex- 
tended at an angle of 45 degrees from the body. A rubber sheet is 
placed under the arm and hand to protect the bedding from the moist 
dressings. A folded woolen blanket is placed under the arm and hand, 
hot dressings are then applied from the hand to the elbow, or if in- 
dicated, completely to the axilla. Sterile bath towels soaked in hot 
boric solution make an excellent hot dressing and can be readily 
wrapped around the entire arm and hand. The woolen blanket is 
then folded over the hot dressings. Two or three hot water bottles 
can be placed about the blanket, and the rubber sheet is then folded 
over the entire dressing so that the arm and hand are thoroughly 



536 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



encased. This usually accomplishes complete immobilization but 
if necessary, a sand bag can be placed on either side of the member 
to hold it more securely. 

The various things commonly used for immobilization are band- 
ages, adhesive plaster, various sized pasteboard or wooden splints 
carefully padded, plaster of paris splints or casts, blanket splints, 
pillows and specialized splints as the Hodgen arm or leg splints, 
or the commercial splints. 

Dressings. The rule "report to the doctor's office no matter how 
slight the injury" brings many cases with such minor injuries that a 
dressing of any kind is unnecessary. The doctor should not make 
light of these cases but carefully paint with iodin and explain to the 
patient why no dressing need be applied. 




FIG. 80. A severe laceration of the hand closed with adhesive strips after first steriliz- 
ing the wound with iodin. 

Fifty per cent, of the dressings will consist of a dry sterile gauze 
applied and held in place by a gauze bandage. The surgeon must 
remember that the smaller the dressing and the fewer the joints 
covered by same, the less is the efficiency of the worker interfered 
with. Absorbent cotton should not be applied next to wounds for 
reasons already given. 

Moist dressings are chiefly indicated in infected wounds or in 
abrasions where they are used to prevent the dressings from adhering. 
The commonest moist dressings are boric, saline, bichlorid of mercury 
or alcohol. Recently moist dressings of Dichloramine-T or of the 
Carrel-Dakin solution have been advocated by different emergency 
surgeons. 

It is unwise to use strong antiseptic moist dressings on any 
wounds as the adjacent skin will invariably become irritated and more 
prone to infection. Occasionally a physician will apply a moist 
dressing of weak carbolic acid solution with the result that when the 
dressing is removed the underlying skin has a characteristic pallor 




EMERGENCY SURGERY 



537 



and the capillary blood supply is destroyed. Or a physician or 
a patient may pour iodin on a gauze dressing and bind it on the wound. 
Severe burns often result from such treatments. In fact, iodin applied 
to a wound should be allowed to dry before applying the dressing. 

In threatened wound infections, especially about the fingers or 
toes, and for moist dressings in ambulatory infected cases, the author 
relies especially on equal parts of alcohol and glycerin. For example, 
the finger has been punctured. The employee neglects the wound 
but reports the next day with the finger slightly swollen, reddened 
about the injury and very tender. No sign of pus is present and it is 
not indicated to open the area. A fairly large pad of sterile gauze 




FIG. 81. Paraffin treatment of burns: a, Sponging wound with Dakin's splution. 

is soaked in the alcohol and glycerin and immediately wrapped around * 
the finger. This is covered with gutta-percha so that the dressing 
is practically air tight, and is then bandaged in place. Such a dressing 
is reapplied every twelve hours. Usually by the next day the 
threatened infection has been aborted. 

Another moist dressing which is very valuable especially in am- 
bulatory cases is composed of a solution of magnesium sulphate and 
glycerin. This is expecially adapted to abrasions or old chronic, 
ulcerated areas where granulation must be stimulated. 

Dusting powders are chiefly used in abrasions, small first degree 
burns, or when the skin has become irritated. Bismuth subnitrate 
is the most soothing powder which can be used. The wound area 
may be gently covered with sterile olive oil and the bismuth powder 



538 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



applied over this. Bismuth subiodid, powdered oxid of zinc, boric 
powder, powdered calomel and iodoform are powders most frequently 
used by surgeons. 




FIG. 82. Paraffin treatment of burns: b, drying with hot-air blast. 

, 




FIG. 83. Paraffin treatment of burns: c, spraying melted and medicated paraffin on 

woUnd. 

Ointments are occasionally applied to the irritated skin or more 
frequently to large, denuded areas after "weeping" has ceased. Dr. 



EMERGENCY SURGERY 



539 



A. I. Bouffleur advocates the use of equal parts of balsam of Peru 
and castor oil as one of the best ointment dressings which can be used 
over these chronic, denuded areas. It stimulates granulation and 
prevents the dressing from adhering. Chronic abrasions over the 
shin bone where ulceration so easily occurs, require such a dressing. 
Unguentine, although a proprietary ointment, is one of the most use- 
ful about the dispensary. It affords an excellent dressing for recent 
abrasions or burns and also stimulates healing in these chronic con- 
ditions. Mercurial ointments, such as white precipitate, is an excel- 
lent dressing where antiseptic action is desired. 




FIG. 84. Paraffin treatment of burns: d, applying thin cotton over the paraffin 

film. 

Carbolic salve is chiefly used by the laymen. Every patient should 
be warned against applying carbolic salve to a wound and covering 
it with a dressing. Some very serious cases of necrosis have followed 
this practice. A girl employee scratched her little finger and it be- 
came slightly infected. She reported to the doctor's office where a 
moist dressing was applied. That night her mother removed the 
dressing and put on a large quantity of carbolic vaselin, then again 
bandaged the finger. She kept the girl home the next day under the 
same treatment. The following day the patient reported to the doc- 
tor's office with the finger blanched and shriveled. Within twenty- 
four hours, a dry gangrenous condition developed and continued 
until the first two joints of her finger practically dried up. This 
young lady has a perfectly useless fifth finger as a result of the car- 
bolic ointment. 



540 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



The open treatment of wounds is becoming more and more popular. 
Abrasions and burns, chronic ulcerated conditions and old infections 
will often yield more rapidly to this open treatment. A cage can 
be made from wire screening, the edges of the cage being bound 
with adhesive. This can then be sterilized with heat and applied 
over the wound. A thin gauze covering is placed over the wire 
cage, and adhesive strips are used to hold the entire dressing in 
place. Free access of air and sunlight seem to hasten the healing 
process. 

Protective devices are often necessary, especially where employees 
return to work after the dressings are applied. These consist of wood 
splints, tin splints, wire cages and other such measures. They are 
usually retained in place by the use of adhesive plaster. 




FIG. 85. Paraffin treatment of burns: e, painting paraffin over the cotton. (Figs. 72 
to 76 from clinic of Dr. Corwin, Colorado Fuel & Iron Co.) 



CONCLUSION 

The following points are so vital in emergency surgical work that 
their repetition is justified: 

1. Always sterilize open wounds no matter how slight or how ex- 
tensive and no matter where located. Tincture of iodin is the best 
antiseptic to use. 

2. The surgeon must begin his emergency treatment immediately 
after the accident occurs. 

3. The same asepsis must be observed as in operative surgery. 
Only sterile dressings must be applied to the wound. 



EMERGENCY SURGERY 



541 



4. Immediate immobilization of the injured member whenever 
indicated. 

5. Shock and hemorrhage, whenever present, must receive first 
consideration. 

6. Keen judgment, carefulness and alertness, adeptness and 
ingenuity, and a constant enthusiasm are the necessary attributes 
of a good emergency surgeon. 



CHAPTER XXXIV 

THE SUBSEQUENT OR PERMANENT TREATMENT OF 
CERTAIN INJURIES 

In previous chapters on industrial surgery, consideration has been 
given to preventive surgery, to first aid care, and to the immediate or 
emergency treatment of injuries the result of accidents. The remain- 
ing function of the physician practicing industrial surgery is to render 
subsequent or permanent treatment to the injured employees. These 
four functions are so closely interrelated that to be a successful in- 
dustrial surgeon one must be expert in ah 1 of these four lines. Some 
of the best surgeons of the country are capable of doing excellent repair 
work in accident surgery but would make poor industrial surgeons 
because they are not trained to think of their surgical results in terms 
of the man's work. Both preventive and emergency surgery are 
based upon the economic end-results. The subsequent surgery and 
the permanent treatment involve the Same economic considera- 
tions the quickest possible recovery, the restoration to full func- 
tion or as nearly so as is possible when the nature of the injury is con- 
sidered, and the placement at suitable work compatible with the 
function attained. 

The best emergency surgery is rendered in those industries where 
a surgeon is on the job to give immediate treatment to every accident 
case. The majority of injured employees are able to report to the 
plant dispensary for their subsequent treatment or in the 
absence of such a dispensary, to the surgeon's office. The 
success of these ambulatory cases depends upon frequent dressings, 
careful supervision to see that the dressings are not removed and 
proper assignment of the injured to such work as will not delay the 
healing process. Work is one of the best therapeutic adjuncts which 
the surgeon can employ and in every case he should get the employee 
back to some occupation in the industry as soon as possible. 

In a certain number of accident cases, the injuries will be so serious 
as to confine the employee to his home or to the hospital and arrange- 
ments must be made to carry on the permanent treatment in one 
or the other of these places. When subsequent operations are neces- 
sary the patient should always be sent direct to the hospital. As a 
general rule closer supervision can be maintained and better results 
obtained by rendering the permanent treatment of these serious injuries 
in the hospital rather than in the home. Much of the success 

542 






TREATMENT OF INJURIES 543 

of the industrial surgeon will depend upon his powers of per- 
suading patients to accept this hospital care. The majority of dis- 
satisfied patients belong to those receiving home treatment and these 
are the ones who usually enter damage suits in the courts or claim 
excessive compensation. 

A few of our largest industries have their own hospitals adjacent 
to the plant where both the emergency and permanent treatment 
can be carried on. Two industries have a ward in connection with 
its doctor's office where the serious cases can be kept for twenty-four 
or forty-eight hours and then removed to one of the outside hospitals 
in the community. In these concerns, the surgeons do most of the 
operative work at the plant, even operating hernia cases, and then 
placing them in the ward for twenty-four hours. At the end of that 
tune they are taken in an ambulance to one of the city hospitals. 
This plan saves a certain amount of expense to the management 
but is rather a dangerous procedure from the standpoint of the safety 
of the patient. 

As a general rule major operative work requiring an anesthetic 
should not be performed in the plant dispensary. Such work requires 
considerable time and ties up both the staff and the doctor's office 
so that the other medical and surgical functions are neglected. Again 
it sometimes happens that a patient dies during the anesthetic. 
There may be many excellent reasons for this death but the working 
force always blames it on the anesthetic. The morale of the employees 
is lowered and their confidence in the doctor's office is shaken by 
the depressing news of a death occurring there. Years ago in one in- 
dustrial dispensary the surgeon attempted to remove some diseased 
tonsils from one of the employees. A light anesthetic was given 
and before the operation commenced the patient suddenly died. The 
news of this death spread rapidly throughout the plant. Following 
this accident it was almost impossible to persuade injured employees 
to report to this dispensary for treatment. I am told that a drastic 
rule was immediately made by the management that no anesthetic 
should ever be administered in the plant. In the author's experience 
it has only been necessary once to give a general anesthetic at the 
plant dispensary. A patient needing operative work requiring an 
anesthetic can usually be transferred to a hospital where every facility 
is at hand to meet any emergency that may arise. By careful 
emergency surgery and rapid evacuation of serious cases to an outside 
hospital, we have been able to avoid death in the dispensary for the 
last ten years and as a result the confidence of the working force 
in the doctor's office has never been shaken. Neither did any one of 
these patients die as a result of being moved. 

It is very essential that the best and most up-to-date hospital 



544 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

in the community should be chosen for the care of injured employees. 
The surgeon should endeavor to have certain wards and private rooms 
set aside in this hospital for his cases and he should become a recog- 
nized member of the staff. Only in this way can he obtain the best 
nursing and interne service for his patients, both of which are absolute 
essentials in accident surgery. These serious cases should not be 
turned over to a disinterested surgeon, for employees are much better 
satisfied if they are in the hands of a qualified surgeon directly re- 
sponsible to the management of their industry. Such a one becomes 
a connecting link between the employer and employee and in a hundred 
little ways is able to convey the personal interest of the former to 
his injured workmen. 

To be successful the permanent treatment of these seriously in- 
jured employees must include: first, the actual surgical treatment and 
subsequent dressings ; and second, the psychotherapeutic treatment. 

It is not the intention of the author to write a treatise on the sur- 
gical treatment of specific injuries folio wing accidents, but rather to deal 
with certain general principles involved in industrial surgery. Many 
standard surgical works and such books as Footers " Emergency Sur- 
gery, " Moorhead's "Traumatic Surgery," Cotton's book on "Frac- 
tures and Dislocations," and other of the more recent writings on war 
surgery, will give the student the necessary information on special 
lines of treatment. 

The psychotherapeutic treatment of the injured, however, has 
been woefully neglected by the majority of surgeons, and consideration 
of this important phase of the care of injured employees is indicated. 

The psychology of a workman who has received injuries the result 
of his employment, is peculiar and has an important bearing on the 
successful outcome of the treatment. In the first place, he feels that 
his employer is responsible for his suffering and disability and should 
be made to pay dearly for the same. He is then forced to- 'accept the 
administrations of a surgeon chosen by this employer rather than by 
himself or his family. He is carried directly to a hospital and if 
conscious, usually frets a great deal over how the news of his accident 
will be broken to his wife or family. His surroundings are strange, 
the experience is entirely new and he is in the hands of strangers. An 
immediate operation may be necessary and how does he know whether 
the doctor will amputate the injured member or otherwise leave 
him permanently disabled. In case of such permanent disability, how 
will he ever make a living again and what will become of his family? 
These and a thousand other fears prey on his mind and unless im- 
mediately dispersed by the surgeon may interfere with his recovery. 

During the days and weeks which follow, such a patient can easily 
become discouraged or dissatisfied and as a result he develops a neuro- 






TREATMENT OF INJURIES 545 

sis which usually greatly delays his recovery. If his daily dressings 
are extremely painful, another factor for the development of neurosis 
is introduced. Or if pain and discomfort accompany the use of an 
injured member he may resist all efforts to regain function in the part 
and delay of this kind frequently results in permanent disability. 
During these days while lying in bed slowly recovering, his mind will 
have time to dwell upon the thoughts of compensation. The desire 
for excessive compensation may become so great as to cause him to 
feign certain conditions, while in other cases he may resist all efforts 
for a rapid recovery in order to receive his weekly compensation over 
a longer period. This latter is often the case when, in addition to his 
accident compensation, he is receiving benefits from his lodge or union. 

All of these various mental states play such an important part in 
the recovery of these injured employees that the industrial surgeon 
must constantly be on the alert to counteract their influence. With 
this in mind, let us consider the various methods necessary to meet 
these conditions. 

Better results can be obtained if the surgeon employed by an in- 
dustry, providing he is capable, takes complete charge of every accident 
case. In the majority of instances when employees choose their own 
doctor, their period of disability is prolonged and the functional re- 
sults are not uniformly good. On the other hand, if the employer 
arbitrarily chooses the surgeon for his employees, he should pick one 
whom he, himself, would trust in every emergency. The reputation 
of such a surgeon soon spreads throughout the working force so that 
when an employee sustains a serious injury, his confidence in the 
doctor is already established. The surgeon, however, must endeavor 
to gain the complete confidence of every injured workman from the 
very minute he takes charge of the case. 

Establishing confidence, therefore, is the first link in the psycho- 
therapeutic care. If the surgeon enters the dressing room without 
paying much attention to the patient, becomes excited at the sight of 
the wound, and cries out orders and counterorders to his assistants, 
starts one line of treatment then switches to another, handles the 
injured member roughly or otherwise causes unnecessary pain, he 
soon has the patient and all those about him completely bewildered. 
On the other hand, if the surgeon takes time to speak to his patient 
while sizing up the extent of his injury, learns the patient's first name 
and addresses him by it, cheers him up and endeavors to overcome any 
antagonism which may exist, then gently but deftly renders the neces- 
sary treatment, quietly issuing his orders to his assistants, he im- 
mediately establishes an atmosphere of calmness and efficiency which 
impresses and reassures the injured. Such a surgeon is not only the 
mechanic called in to repair the broken parts but at once becomes a 

35 



546 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

friend and that confidence between doctor and patient, so necessary 
in accident surgery, is established. 

Reassuring the patient that his wounds are not as serious as he 
may think must be stated as soon as the surgeon has had the op- 
portunity of inspecting the condition. The more serious the wound the 
more essential it is for the surgeon to smile and not betray by the least 
sign his fears of a fatal outcome. Such remarks as "internal injuries," 
"high amputations," "gangrene," and other equally terrifying terms 
should not be made in the presence of the injured. If the friends or 
relatives excite the patient they should be kept from the room. While 
combating death with your every effort, if the patient is conscious, 
cheerfully reassure him and stimulate him to put up a fight. 

Notifying the relatives about the accident must be thought of at 
once. No employee should be taken to the hospital without im- 
mediately sending someone to notify his family. No worse seeds of 
dissatisfaction can be sown than to leave the wife worrying all night 
over the non-appearance of her husband after his day's work, or even 
allowing several hours to elapse before notifying her. The author 
trained two of his nurses in the best and most tactful way of approach- 
ing the family and telling them of the injury. These nurses were 
given the authority to call a taxicab whenever necessary and bring 
the wife or other members of the family to the hospital as soon as 
possible. By the time the wife has reached the hospital such a nurse 
usually has her trained to approach the husband without unduly ex- 
citing him. Surgeons who neglect the family miss their greatest 
opportunity of establishing friendly relations with the patient. 

Explaining the whys and wherefores of every step in the treatment 
of his case is the best means of securing the co-operation of the patient. 
If a part must be amputated explain the reasons to the patient and 
show him the futility of endeavoring to save the member. On the 
other hand, if there is a possibility of saving the part and yet later it 
may become necessary to amputate, explain the condition and get 
him interested in the fight. If it becomes necessary to amputate 
two weeks later, he will fully understand the delay and will not criti- 
cise you for neglecting to operate at once. 

Avoid unnecessary pain during the daily dressings. When severe 
pain is inevitable the surgeon should employ nitrous oxid gas during 
the dressing. This anesthetic can be administered similar to the use 
of gas in an obstetrical case. Such details hasten the recovery and win 
the everlasting gratitude of the patient. 

Study the mental attitude of the patient and strive to overcome 
all those stimuli for the development of traumatic neuroses. If the 
man is fussy and given to complaining it may be necessary to coddle 
him. Again, such a patient may best be treated by the surgeon taking 




TREATMENT OF INJURIES 



547 



a firm stand and scolding him; and in still others, this mental state may 
be overcome by carefully explaining its effect on the final recovery.. 
Every injured employee has his moods and each must be handled 
individually. 

Mental idleness is the greatest drawback to a quick recovery. The 
patient who lies all day with nothing to do has time to worry and 
become dissatisfied. Therefore, the surgeon must counteract in every 
case this mental idleness.^ Bedside and ward occupations are the best 
means of accomplishing this. In the past, nurses have realized that 
their patients are better satisfied and require less personal attention 
if they are employed, and so have given them light duties to perform, 




FIG. 86. Incline in the Minnequa hospital. (Grade 1 foot in 6.) Serviceable 
for the sick and lame. Can also be used for giving graduated exercises to heart cases 
and other convalescents. (Colorado Fuel & Iron Co.) 

such as rolling bondages, preparing dressings, making applicators and 
other light or useful employment. The busy surgeons have neglected 
this form of psychotherapy. The author has been in the habit of 
learning the exact occupation of each of his patients and then tactfully 
stimulating him to study and work along lines which will improve his 
status on returning to his job. I have found many of these patients 
greatly interested in improving their education during the long days of 
convalescence. Some who have not had the opportunity of going to 
school will welcome the chance of studying the three R's. Others will 
enter into the study of chemistry or of stenography, bookkeeping, 
commercial lines and similar studies, and will develop ambitions 
during these days of convalescence which they never dreamed of before. 



548 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



Still other patients will respond more readily to manual diversions. 
They will spend hours working over puzzles or at basketry or at 
weaving, or even playing games with some fellow patient. In many 
instances I have found problems connected with their occupation in 
the plant, have brought these problems to them and have suggested 
that they might improve their standing as an employee by working out 
some improved method during these days of idleness. Many of these 
employees will take a draughting board, drawing paper and pencil, and 
with rulers and compasses will study out many ingenious, often im- 
practical, contrivances. The chief point is that they have become 
interested in their work and are anxious to return to the job in order- 




FIG. 87. Amputation case learning typewriting during his stay in the hospital. 
pliance on typewriter enables making of duplicate copies. 



Ap- 



to try out some of these experiments. When an employee has lost an 
arm or a leg or even an eye as a result of his accident, he is greatly 
discouraged and feels that his future is damned. A good surgeon will 
immediately conceive methods of awakening ambition in such patients. 
If they cannot return to their old job he will suggest lines of study or 
work which will prepare them for a better position in some allied 
occupation. The employer can often be interested in these efforts and 
will be of the greatest help in suggesting the means of preparing the 
patient for his future. 

This rehabilitation of injured employees is one of the most fertile 
fields of endeavor open to the surgeon. Every hospital should provide 



TEEATMENT OF INJURIES 



549 



some qualified person who can assist in these forms of psychotherapy. 
Often the manual work which is given the patient will be such as will 
help him to regain function in an injured member. For instance, eon- 
tractures following a hand infection often result in stiff and useless 
fingers. Early employment of the fingers by typewriting, by weaving, 
by grasping a hammer or a saw, and similar methods will be of the 
greatest aid in preventing undue contraction and restoring function. 

OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY 

This use of work as a means to help restore function and as an 
adjunct to the usual surgical treatment, employed as a form of psycho- 




FIG. 88. An amputation case learning to use his stump by doing wood-carving. 

therapy, is called occupational therapy. It can be used during the 
hospital treatment or the home treatment as above described. Small 
shops should be established in connection with each hospital where 
various kinds of occupational therapy can be administered. 

As soon as possible, however, patients should be removed from the 
influence of the hospital. Every surgeon knows the great patience 
and time that is often required to overcome the hospitalization which 
follows a prolonged sojourn there. But patients leaving the hospital 
and allowed to remain in idleness around the home frequently develop 
even a worse state of mind. Therefore, as soon as possible after 



550 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

leaving the hospital every injured employee should be returned to 
some light occupation in the plant. Foremen must realize that this 
is a definite part of the treatment and that such employees are not 
expected to turn out an average day's work. 

To successfully carry on such occupational therapy, industries 
would find it greatly to their advantage to establish schools and ex- 
perimental shops in some portion of the plant where every injured 
man, or woman, could spend the days of convalescence in some form 
of occupation. This would not only hasten recovery but would make 
a better employee when he returns to work. Every efficient manage- 
ment is anxious to fill the better positions in the plant, such as foremen, 
chief clerks, etc., from the ranks of its working force. Many foremen 
and future managers could be developed in these schools and shops 
maintained for injured employees. 

The following example illustrates to what extent light occupations 
about the plant can be employed by the surgeon to assist in restoring 
function to disabled parts. 

C. W., forty, male, Polish nationality, was severely burned about 
his right arm, right leg and back. After three months the wounds 
had healed but wound contractures were threatening to cause perma- 
nent deformities. During his stay in the hospital this patient was 
given passive motion and as soon as possible active motion, and 
certain work and exercises to prevent these contractures. In spite 
of these precautions the right knee had considerably flexed and the 
right wrist was greatly restricted in motion. During this period 
of his disability, C. W. had received his full weekly wage from the 
concern. Arrangements were now made for his return to light work 
as we recognized that he was neglecting to exercise these parts while 
remaining at home. The patient objected to returning, however, an< 
so it was explained to him that from that time on he would only receive 
two-thirds of his wages which was the amount required by the compen- 
sation law. On the other hand, if he would return to light work for a 
few hours every day at first, he would continue to receive his full wages. 
This argument as usual prevailed and C. W. reported for duty. He 
was given a light paint brush and a bucket of paint and assigned the 
task of painting the steam pipes and radiators. In order to do this, 
it was necessary for him to ascend four steps on a ladder while painting 
the overhead pipes, then he stood on the floor for a portion of the time 
and in order to paint the pipes near the floor he was forced to stoop 
and bend the knee. At first he persisted in using his left hand in 
wielding the paint brush but the surgeon got him interested in the 
game and bound up the left hand so that it was impossible to 
hold the brush. Naturally he was very awkward during the early 
days and accomplished very little work but gradually he began to 



TREATMENT OF INJURIES 551 

use the wrist and knee more and more. After one month the knee 
was perfectly straight and could be flexed or extended at will. It 
took three months to restore perfect function in the wrist but at the 
end of that time C. W. was an expert painter and the management 
decided to keep him permanently on this job. His wages were in- 
creased commensurate with this work, whereas before the accident 
he had been a day laborer about the power plant earning some $16.00 
a week. He had now learned a trade and for the first time in his life 
had developed an ambition. When at the end of three months he 
received his first weekly pay check for $22.00, C. W.'s Americanization 
was completed and he began at once planning to buy his own home. 
Two years later this employee told the surgeon that his accident 
was the best thing that had ever happened to him. 

PHYSIOTHERAPY 
MASSAGE, HYDROTHERAPY, ELECTROTHERAPY 

Industrial surgeons as well as all others have devoted almost their 
entire attention to standardize surgical methods and have neglected 
many of the therapeutic adjuncts which are of the greatest assistance 
in restoring function and securing rapid recoveries. The idea of bed- 
side occupations and later the application of occupational therapy as 
described above has developed during the last few years and has lately 
been especially stimulated by the reconstruction of disabled soldiers 
in the European and Canadian hospitals and now in our own hospitals. 
The use of massage, electricity and the various forms of hydrotherapy 
as definite therapeutic methods have been known for years but these 
excellent means have been left chiefly to a few enthusiasts in the 
profession or have been relegated to the realms of quackdom. Many 
a surgeon has been chagrined by having a patient over whom he has 
labored for months, seek relief at the hands of some osteopath or other 
type of physiotherapist, and return to him completely cured in the 
course of a m.onth. The reason for this is that the surgeon 
has depended entirely on the old classical lines of treatment taught 
him in medical school and failed to take advantage of some of these 
most excellent methods used by the other man. Instead of condemn- 
ing these therapeutic measures because they are used chiefly by the 
so-called quack, we should condemn those practitioners who claim a 
cure-all by these means. The whole field of physiotherapy has 
played such an important part in the surgical work during this great 
war that these methods will undoubtedly become a definite part of the 
therapy practiced by surgeons in the future. 

Major R. Tait McKenzie, M. D., professor of physical training 
at the University of Pennsylvania, has covered this field very 



552 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

thoroughly in a book entitled "Reclaiming the Maimed." Every 
industrial surgeon should become familiar with the methods therein 
described. Under many different conditions he points out the great 
value of massage, hydrotherapy and electrotherapy as a definite 
part of the permanent treatment. 

For instance, in the case of injuries to peripheral nerves, all the 
way from bruising of a nerve trunk to its destruction and restoration 
by surgical means, he states: "These cases are accompanied by 
weakness, or paralysis, muscular wasting, and contractures. They are 
treated by wet or dry heat to exalt the local circulation; supported in 
proper position by splints to prevent the overstretching of weakened 
muscles, and the resultant permanent contraction of those that are 
unimpaired; galvanic, and afterward faradic, stimulation to the affected 
muscles; massage to keep up or improve their nutrition; passive move- 
ment to prevent contraction and limitation of the normal range of the 
joint; progressive active movement, joint by joint, to bring back and 
strengthen voluntary power; ending with gymnastic and occupational 
therapy for skill to fit the patient to take his place in civil life again." 

In regard to scar tissue with contractures and in extensive scar 
tissue following old septic wounds, McKenzie says: "Such wpunds 
are treated by the warmth of the whirlpool bath, which in twenty 
minutes changes the cold purple of the painful hand into a warm 
crimson, and enables the masseur to stroke, knead, and move a joint 
in a way that no amount of persuasion would have made tolerable 
without it. 

"The hastening of repair in these scars by diathermy and ionization 
and the stretching of beginning contractures by careful manipulation, 
taking care to avoid the breaking down of scar tissue in course of 
organization, are among the triumphs of these methods." 

This war has greatly increased our knowledge of functional 
neuroses and many a surgeon, as a result of his war experience, has 
developed the necessary patience to successfully handle these cases. 
These neuroses take the form of paralysis, contractures, areas of 
anesthesia or hyperesthesia, loss of sight, speech or hearing and many 
other peculiar phenomena. Many miraculous cures have already 
been accomplished by our physiotherapists working in the war hospi- 
tals. In these cases massage, hydrotherapy and electro-therapy 
combined with the personality of the operator furnish a combination 
of hypnotism, suggestion and encouragement and results in the cure 
of many conditions which would not otherwise yield to the ordinary 
treatment. Unfortunately thousands of soldiers will be thrown back 
into civil life who have been cured by this form of physiotherapy 
and they will more than ever before depend on these methods as 
cure-alls for every condition. "Quacks" will take advantage of this 



TREATMENT OF INJURIES 



553 



to extend their profiteering on the human credulity. In order to 
prevent this, surgeons must standardize these methods and apply 
them in every case where they can hasten or assist recovery. 

Several industrial surgical dispensaries have already adopted these 
methods. A qualified masseur is employed on the medical staff to 
give massage under the direction of the surgeon. Arm baths and leg 
baths have been added to the equipment of the dispensary where 
hot and cold hydrotherapy can be administered when necessary. 
McKenzie advocates the whirlpool bath in all cases of painful stumps, 
painful scar tissues, partial paralysis, injuries to nerves and to any 
condition which lowers the circulation and nutrition of the part. 

"The arm or leg is thrust into a vessel containing water at a 
temperature varying from 105 up to 115 degrees. This water is 




' FIQ. 89. Adjustable electric cabinets suitable 
for local heat bath. (Burdick.) 



FIG. 90. Same as Fig. 



circulated by means of jets set at an angle or by a propeller. Air 
is also introduced, so that the limb is immersed in a swirling, bubbling 
current. In this way the part is flushed with blood, and the full effect 
of heat is obtained in a way that is impossible if the water is still." 
The author has recently used radiant light and heat in the treat- 
ment of strains, backaches, muscle pains and other conditions of 
obscure origin but undoubtedly having a neurotic basis. Such cases 
report to the doctor's office frequently and continue to report for 
days and weeks complaining of the pain which does not yield to the 
ordinary methods. If such patients receive proper attention the first 
day they report and are put in the rest room and given a course of 
treatment with the radiant heat followed by massage, the condition 
is usually cured at once, or within two or three treatments, thus 
saving these cases much loss of time from work and the accompanying 
inefficiency which goes with such conditions. Figures 89 and 90 



554 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



illustrate two types of local light and heat baths which can be used 
in the surgical dispensary. 

Dr. B. F. Lounsbury in his railroad accident surgery at the Wash- 
ington Boulevard Hospital, Chicago, keeps a physiotherapist in 
constant attendance at the hospital. In practically all major acci- 
dent cases he employs faradic and galvanic electricity, heat and 
light baths, hydrotherapy, massage and gymnastic exercises as a 
definite means of restoring function and hastening recovery. All 
these methods can be applied in the large industrial dispensary and 
the results obtained justify the additional expense. 

FUNCTIONAL RE-EDUCATION 

Functional re-education aims at the restoration of lost or restricted 
function in a disabled member. It is based upon the principle of 




FIG. 91. A hospital bed with frame and sling attached. This enables patient to move 
himself and facilitates exercising in bed. 

i 

letting each patient be his own doctor. During the early days of 
convalescence an operator must give the massage and passive move- 



TREATMENT OF INJURIES 



555 



ments necessary to prevent complete loss of function, but as soon as 
possible active movements by free 'exercise or with apparatus should 
be instituted in order that the patient himself can re-educate the part 
and cultivate strength and endurance. This re-education can be made 
so interesting for the patient that it takes his mind off of the dis- 
ability and, therefore, has an excellent psychotherapeutic value. 

While a limb is still in a splint, or otherwise immobilized, a patient 
may learn certain muscle resisting exercises by a process of mental 
control over different groups of muscles. In this way muscle twitch- 
ing without moving the joint can be commenced weeks before the 
splint is removed. When final and free motion of the joint can begin, 
the muscles having become strong instead of atrophied, the patient 




FIG. 92. A bed table suitable for games or bed-side occupations. 

Corwin.) 



(Courtesy of Dr. 



is able to raise the dropped wrist or to bend the stiffened knee. The 
period of disability can be greatly reduced by this type of functional 
re-education. 

The greatest value of functional re-education, however, is found in 
those cases of scar contracture, stiff joints following long splintage 
or following extensive injuries with scar formation, in paralysis follow- 
ing injuries of the nerves or in those cases of lost tendon and muscle 
tissue. The value of occupational therapy as a form of functional 
reeducation has already been pointed out and wherever it can be ap- 
plied in a practical way it is certainly of more value than any other 
form. However, during the hospital days and the convalescent period 
before the patient is able to take up practical work this reeducation 
can be greatly facilitated by the use of certain appliances. 



556 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 




MECHANOTHERAPY 

The use of apparatus for functional re-education is called mechano- 
therapy. Its principles are best described by Dr. McKenzie who has 
invented several different types of apparatus which are now in use in 
practically all the Canadian war hospitals and several of the army 
hospitals in this country. 

"Apparatus is necessary to bridge the gap between free movement 
and the more complicated and skillful coordination of gymnastics and 

occupation, and it can be constructed so 
as to give a graduated and measurable 
load, to be increased as strength returns. 
Muscles work better against resistance than 
free, and the necessary resistance may be 
given by the hand, by friction, forming a 
brake on the turning of a wheel or handle, 
by stretching elastic cords, or by stretching 
or compressing springs. In these devices, 
it is difficult or impossible, to measure 
accurately the work done. They vary at 
different stages of the movement, are un- 
even, and the patient quickly tires and 
becomes discouraged, because he cannot 
see a definite and measurable improvement. 
The best principle to use is the raising of 
graduated weights, either by a lever or by 
a rope and pulley. In the former, the 
weight is clamped on a lever at points in- 
dicated on a scale, the lengthening of the 
lever increasing the force necessary to raise 
it. This is the principle employed by 
Zander in most of his machines, which, 
however, are expensive, complicated, 
cumbrous, require much space, and 

FIG. 93. The triplicate , .. 

pulley weight. (McKenzie, need an engine to supply motive power 
"Reclaiming the Maimed." The for some of them. Appliances can be 

Macmillan Co., Publishers.) , 

constructed to produce accurately the 

same effects at one-tenth the cost, by making use of the weight and 
pulley. 

" Figure 93 shows diagrammatically an arrangement by which the 
direction of the resistance may be upward, downward, or from the 
side. Machines combining these three movements are called triplex, 
or triplicate machines, but, in addition to these, special devices are 
necessary for exercising certain joints. The following set of appli- 



TREATMENT OF INJURIES 



557 



ances are designed to combine simplicity, cheapness, and efficiency. 
They can be easily multiplied to any extent by a good carpenter and 
blacksmith who has the pattern before him. 

"Their use should have a place in a definite sequence; treatment 
begins with the preparation of the limb or joint by electricity, radiant 
heat, or hot baths, then massage and passive movements, as already 
described, followed by active movement. A mirror is of great value 




FIG. 94. Protractors for measuring angles of movement in the shoulder, elbows, 
wrist, knee and ankle. Hart House. (McKenzie, "Reclaiming the Maimed") The 
Macmillan Co., Publishers. 

to teach accuracy and associate the feeling of the movement with its 
appearance. 

"Before beginning the re-education of a joint, the range of move- 
ment should be carefully measured. This is done by means of pro- 
tractors of cardboard, or galvanized sheet iron, with the scale marked 
in degrees. The illustration shows the method of measuring move- 
ments of the shoulder forward and backward, the protractor being 
set with zero perpendicular to the joint as checked by a plumb line. 
The movement in either direction is marked in degrees. The elbow, 
wrist, knee, and ankle are measured by the second protractor made 



558 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 




FIG. 95. Adduction and abduction of wrist. Note the scale to measure the angle of 
movement. (From McKemie, "Reclaiming the Maimed.") 




FIG. 96. Measuring strength of grip by the tycos sphygmomanometer. F. W. Harvey. 
(From McKemie, "Reclaiming the Maimed.") 




TREATMENT OF INJURIES 



559 




Fio. 97. Wrist abduction in action. E, beginning of wrist extension. F', correct 
position of arm in pronation. (From McKenzie, " Reclaiming the Maimed.") 




FIG. 98. Rotation, flexion and extension and lateral movements of the wrist. (From 
McKenzie, "Reclaiming the Maimed") 



560 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



of galvanized iron strips, hinged, and with a scale pasted on to a side 
plate. 

"Most of the appliances about to be described have protractors at- 
tached, so that the range of movement can be watched by the patient 





himself, during the exercise, and this additional incentive given him to 
use his best efforts. The measurement of ability to repeat movement 
will be in terms of weight raised and number of repetitions. The maxi- 
mum strength of the grip can be taken conveniently by partly inflat- 
ing the cuff of a Tycos sphygmomanometer and noting the height to 






TREATMENT OF INJURIES 



561 



which the mercury is raised when the cuff is squeezed. This is quite 
as reliable as Amar's bulb, and is better than the ordinary hand 
dynamometer. 

"The appliances are for two purposes, stretching and improving 
the strength. All the stretching movements are kept within the vol- 





untary control of the patient, who can be trusted to desist before 
danger of lacerating firm adhesions is imminent. The appliances 
for improving the strength can be loaded with increasing weights as 
the power to lift them returns and the patient can be interested in 
watching the extent of each movement, as shown on the scale, in watch- 
ing the rising weight as it is lifted, in calculating the total amount 

36 



562 



INDUSTHIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 




FIG. 103. Pulley weights for exercising fingers in flexion and extension, right 
hand doing exercise 1, left hand with thumb attachment doing abduction. (From, 
McKemie, "Reclaiming the Maimed") 




FIG. 104. Crumpling up a newspaper as an exercise for the hand. 

"Reclaiming the Maimed") 



(From McKenziei 



TREATMENT OF INJURIES 



563 




105. Amputated case learning control on the balance beam. 
"Reclaiming the Maimed.") 



(From McKenzie, 




FIG. 106. Amputated case practicing walking through the ladder to exercise 
the stump and teach control. Inversion and eversion treads also shown. (From 
McKenzie, "Reclaiming the Maimed.") 



564 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



of work done in foot pounds, or in listening to and counting the clicks 
of the ratchet as the movement is made. " 

The author refers the reader to McKenzie's book, "Reclaiming 
the Maimed" for a complete description of these various forms of 
rnechanotherapy. Figures 97 to 107 show the varied exercises which 
can be obtained by the McKenzie apparatus. 

The chief point about mechanotherapy is that the patient is his 
own doctor and after his interest in the game is once aroused, he can 
usually be depended upon to exert every effort to overcome the lost 
function. In many cases of ankylosed joints following recent in- 
juries, motion can be restored by daily persistent exercising over a 
period of a few weeks. In contradistinction to this method consider 




FIG. 107. A hammer handle made to fit a deformed hand. It is first surrounded 
with dental wax softened in hot water, then patient grasps it as tightly as possible 
making an Impression of the deformed hand. Wax is then hardened by dipping in cold 
water. Patient now has a handle shaped to his hand. As flexion develops in fingers 
new impressions are made. (Allen.) 

the great damage which has often been done by surgeons forcibly 
breaking up one of these ankylosed joints. The tissues are practically 
always lacerated and the ligaments may be torn away from their 
attachments. The adhesions which form during the healing process 
following this operation often cause a worse ankylosis. Patience is the 
first lesson which the industrial surgeon must learn. 

GYMNASTICS AND GAMES 

A long sojourn in the hospital develops hospitalization which is 
characterized by sluggishness of mind and body. The patient's 
physical, mental and moral stamina is greatly lowered and demands 



TREATMENT OF INJURIES 



565 



treatment just as much as the injured part demanded surgical care. 
The neglect of this state of hospitalization has resulted in prolonged 
disability and in many unjust claims for compensation on the part of 
the patient. 

Gymnastics, special setting-up exercises and outdoor games have 
been found of the greatest value in overcoming the damage done by the 
enforced idleness of hospital life. These methods have especially been 



I 




PIG. 108. An amputated case learning to use his artificial appliance by playing ball. 

employed among the soldiers convalescing from their war injuries. In 
development battalions in this country many an injured soldier, or one 
disabled by disease, has been restored to full duty by special exercises, 
drills and games carried on under the supervision of the medical officer. 
Before the establishment of development battalions, this same class of 
patients was discharged from the army as unfit, and to-day, constitute 
a large group of the discharged disabled soldiers drawing compensation. 
Special gymnastic exercises can be given to many of the bed 



566 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



patients with very beneficial results. By gradually increasing these, 
they can leave their beds with strong muscles and generally increased 



"Wag 




FIG. 109. Soldier patients at Walter Reed Hospital cutting short the time of con- 
valescence by graduated physical exercise. (Bryant.) 




FIG. 110. Same as Fig. 100. Arrangements should be made for the physical develop- 
ment of all convalescents in our civil hospitals. 

strength instead of the weakened, emaciated condition which cause so 
many to faint when they first try to get out of bed. Graded exercises 



TREATMENT OF INJURIES 567 

can be given in the hospital wards to all the patients who are able to 
stand up. This should be one of the functions of the internes in our 
hospitals. The exercises should be made so interesting, and their 
purposes so carefully explained to the patients that everyone would 
enter into the game with the idea of getting the greatest benefit from 
it. Every hospital should be surrounded with sufficient ground space 
where outdoor exercises and games could be indulged in by these 
patients as a definite part of their therapeutic care. Instead of send- 
ing softened, physically and mentally dejected patients away from our 
hospitals as we do to-day, such methods would turn out strong, vigor- 
ous patients anxious to return to their employment. 

From the standpoint of the medical profession the war will be of 
great value if we learn to use all of these therapeutic adjuncts in con- 
nection with the permanent treatment of our accident cases. 

Surgeons in industry have made great strides during the last 
decade in the treatment of injured employees. They undoubtedly 
will be among the first to grasp this line of treatment which will give 
not only the best surgical end-result but the very best economic 
end-result. 



CHAPTER XXXV 
. X-RAY IN INDUSTRIAL SURGERY 

Five years ago very few industrial dispensaries were equipped with 
a complete x-ray laboratory. At the present time this is recognized as 
one of the most important accessories to the surgical dispensary and 
several plants have installed most up-to-date machines. An expert 
rontgenologist on the surgical staff is equally important. 

When x-ray facilities are lacking in the plant dispensary equip- 
ment injured employees who, in the judgment of the surgeon, actually 




Fro. 111. X-ra.y room in doctor's office. (Courtesy of Ford Co.) 

need x-ray examinations, are referred to some outside hospital or 
laboratory. The charges for such work average approximately five 
($5.00) dollars per case. Naturally the management requires and the 
surgeon is desirous to keep the cost of the surgical work at a minimum. 
Therefore, he refrains from sending many injured employees for such 
examinations unless there is a very definite indication. Whereas, if 
an x-ray laboratory was close at hand which could be used at approxi- 

568 



X-RAY IN INDUSTRIAL SURGERY 569 

mately very little expense per case, many of these patients would 
receive such an examination at once. 

As a result of this short-sighted policy the delayed x-ray examina- 
tion* is often a direct cause of the prolonged disability. Any industry 
where a sufficient number of accidents occur as to warrant a medical 
staff, wastes the price of an x-ray equipment and its operation every 
year by paying excessive prices for these examinations on the outside 
and by the prolonged disability in other cases which would have been 
benefited by an early radiographic examination. 

We will take it for granted that every emergency surgeon to-day 
uses this method in all cases where the need is obvious. In addition 
to these, other patients are constantly reporting to the dispensary 
every day who should be x-rayed. The following types of injuries 
require this form of examination: 

1. Every injured employee reporting to the office with a sprain 
should be x-rayed. Routine radiographic examination of- so-called 
sprains will reveal approximately 10 per cent, of these are due to 
fractures, especially small linear fractures. Many of these, diagnosed 
at first as sprains and treated as such, fail to respond to treatment 
and after a week or two the surgeon decides to x-ray them, thus dis- 
covering the fracture. Immediate proper immobilization and rest of 
the part would have resulted in prompt recovery, but two weeks 
unnecessary time has been wasted. Some of these cases of delayed 
diagnosis of fracture fail to unite and wiring of the fragments or bone 
transplantation or other open methods become necessary. It is almost 
impossible for the surgeon to square himself with the patient when the 
diagnosis of a fracture has thus been unnecessarily delayed. Such 
mistakes can only be avoided by the routine x-ray examination of all 
injuries where the remotest chance of a fracture may exist. 

2. All eye injuries due to foreign bodies, except such minor con- 
ditions as a cinder or dust not buried in the eye, should be x-rayed. 
It frequently happens that a small particle of steel or emery will 
penetrate the eyeball to a great depth without leaving any perceptible 
wound of entrance. Such foreign material is not discovered until weeks 
afterward when it has done irreparable harm. The loss of both 
eyes has followed these simple injuries whereas an early x-ray 
diagnosis would have prevented such dire results. The importance 
of the routine rontgen examination of eye injuries is illustrated by 
the following case : 

Mr. J. R., male, 34 years old, was employed hi a tool factory. 
His work necessitated occasional grinding on an emery wheel. 
Goggles were provided but were not kept in repair and the manage- 
ment did not require the employees to use them. One day while 
grinding, the wheel cracked and several pieces of emery were forcibly 



570 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



thrown off. One of these struck the employee at the outer canthus 
of the left eye but he did not think any portion entered the eyeball. 
One of his fellow employees examined the eye but could find no sign 
of injury. Two days later, another employee playfully threw a wad 
of waste, used for wiping a machine, at J. R. and it struck him in 
the left eye. Two hours later this eye became inflamed and very 
painful. He reported to the boss and blamed his trouble on the waste 
which struck him in the eye. He was immediately referred to an 
excellent eye specialist who cared for all eye cases for the insurance 
company under which this concern was insured. Examination by the 
eye specialist failed to reveal any foreign particles as a cause of the 
conjunctivitis and iritis. He explained to J. R. that the badly in- 
flamed condition of the eye was due either to diseased tonsils or an 
infected tooth. In order to satisfy the patient, he called another eye 
specialist, of excellent repute, in consultation and the latter agreed 
with this diagnosis. J. R., on the advice of these doctors, imme- 
diately had his teeth z-rayed, followed by the removal of two infected 
teeth. The eye condition persisted and the patient finally consulted 
his family physician. This doctor had attended J. R. in two attacks 
of appendicitis and so he advised him to get rid of this focus of infection. 
J. R. was referred to the author who operated on him for appendicitis, 
removing a chronically inflamed appendix, and ten days later the dis- 
eased tonsils were removed. The eye remained inflamed but during 
this period in the hospital, the pain was greatly relieved. 

The insurance company was anxious to secure a settlement of 
this case and on the advice of their eye specialist, took the position 
that the slight injury complained of was not responsible in any way for 
the condition. The other eye specialist and the author contended 
that while the foci of infection in the patient's body might have been 
the source of infection, yet the injury was undoubtedly the pre- 
disposing factor. As the case was of intense interest from the medico- 
legal standpoint, I requested J. R. to report to the night clinic on 
Industrial Medicine and Surgery at Rush Medical College in order 
to demonstrate the condition to the students. In the midst of this 
demonstration, one of the students reminded the author that we had 
neglected x-raying the eye, one of the very things we had been teaching 
these students to do in every case of eye injury. The eye was im- 
mediately radiographed and to our great chagrin, a small foreign body 
was located deep in the eyeball. 

This settled all legal controversy in the case at once. Two opera- 
tions performed by the second eye specialist were required before 
this small body was successfully removed. It had undoubtedly 
penetrated the eye at the time the emery wheel broke. 

Every physician and certainly every eye specialist as well as these 



X-EAY IN INDUSTRIAL SURGERY 571 

medical students should benefit by such lessons and routine x-ray 
examinations of eye injuries should become a fixture in the practice 
of medicine. 

3. All deep scalp wounds should be immediately x-rayed. Frac- 
tured skulls will thus often be revealed when exploration of the skull 
by the surgeon may fail to show the condition. 

4. Immediate rontgen examination of employees who have passed 
through rather serious accidents without receiving any apparently 
major injury is very important from a medicolegal standpoint. Such 
patients, when they reach home, may be influenced to magnify their 
minor injuries, especially if the nature of the accident warrants it. 
These patients will remain away from the surgeon and several weeks 
later may bring claim for broken bones, dislocations, etc. The 
following case illustrates the importance of this procedure : 

Mr. J., 58 years old, a salesman, was called to a certain industry 
to consult with one of the managers regarding some special equipment 
which the concern desired to procure. In walking through the aisle 
in one of the departments, he stumbled over a small box which had been 
carelessly left there, and fell forcibly to the floor. He was taken to the 
doctor's office and thoroughly examined but no sign of injury was found. 
He complained bitterly of pain, however, and stated openly that the 
concern would have to pay him for damages. He exaggerated his 
symptoms and made so much fuss that the assistant surgeon who was 
in charge at the time, told him he was a fakir. 

The management called a taxicab and sent Mr. J. to his home. 
Two weeks later his family physician called the author and stated 
that Mr. J. had sustained an injury of his right hip-joint at the time 
he fell and that motion in this joint was limited by an excessive callous 
formation. He had proven this condition by an re-ray examination. 
On inquiry, I found that Mr. J. was up and around although he suf- 
fered considerable pain in his hip. I suggested that the physician 
and his patient meet me at the hospital where a thorough examination 
could be made and if the concern was responsible, arrangements would 
be made for a settlement. This plan was agreed to. Examination 
of the x-ray plate showed a large amount of bony formation about the 
hip-joint. A chronic arthritis deformans was immediately suspected 
but, without mentioning this fact, I asked permission to have a new 
.x-ray picture made at the hospital. This was done but instead of limit- 
ing the examination to the right hip, every joint in the patient's body 
was radiographed. Similar bony deposits were found about the left 
hip-joint, about the knee-joints and about one of the shoulder-joints. 
The rontgenologist reported that there was no sign of fracture about 
the right hip-joint but that this patient was suffering from a chronic 
arthritis deformans. Mr. J.'s family physician was convinced and 



572 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



together we were able to persuade Mr. J. that his trouble had existed 
long before this fall. The claim for settlement was dropped. 

An immediate x-ray examination at the time of the injury would 
have revealed the true condition and would have prevented this 
controversy which might have resulted in a very serious financial loss 
to this concern. 

The x-ray is of great assistance in other types of emergency 




FIQ. 112. A portable x-ray machine especially serviceable in accident surgery. 

surgery. Foreign bodies which have penetrated soft tissues can be 
immediately located and quickly removed by its use. Pieces of 
steel, broken needles and other such material, which often require an 
operation of one or two hours in order to remove, can be deftly taken 
out, the operation being performed in a dark room under the guidance 
of the fluoroscope. By looking through the fluoroscope the needle or 
piece of steel is located. An incision is made immediately over the 



X-RAY IN INDUSTRIAL SURGERY 573 

part, and a pointed artery forceps is introduced and guided by the eye 
until the foreign material is grasped. If the material cannot be 
immediately withdrawn the fluoroscope is put aside, the room lighted 
and with the forceps as a guide, the foreign body can be carefully 
dissected out. 

War surgery has developed several different types of localizers 
to use in connection with the x-ray and these must be adapted to 
our industrial surgery. One of these appliances, the Granger localizer, 
is clearly described by the inventor in the April, 1918, issue of the 
American Journal of Electrotherapeutics and Radiology. 

In the really up-to-date doctor's office in industry, every effort is 
made to thoroughly diagnose every case coming before the doctors. 
In order to do this, the x-ray is often a necessary adjunct to our 
diagnostic methods. Cases of pulmonary tuberculosis may be con- 
firmed by this method whereas an early diagnosis might be delayed 
until clinical signs were manifested. Gastro-intestinal diagnosis or 
diagnosis of conditions in the urinary tract can be made in the plant 
dispensary by the rontgen rays. 

Fig. 112 illustrates the U. S. Army bedside x-ray unit. It was 
designed to permit x-ray examination in the wards thus limiting the 
disturbance of the patient. This machine is adaptable to almost all 
the needs of an industrial dispensary and will reduce the cost of equip- 
ping a laboratory to almost one-half. It will also be of the greatest 
value in the hospital wards where the serious accident cases are under 
treatment. This is one of the advances in war surgery which can well 
be copied by industrial surgery. 

No surgeon in industry to-day can afford to neglect x-ray examina- 
tions. To many managements the installation of this expensive 
equipment seems a luxury but it is the duty of every surgeon to 
demonstrate its economic value both to the employee and employer. 






CHAPTER XXXVI 
HAND INFECTIONS 

Infections following injuries have been responsible for a very large 
percentage of the human wastage in industry. Their prevention 
therefore is one of the paramount duties of the surgeon. 

In a few concerns, from which figures have been obtained before 
industrial surgery became a definite part of their organization, as 
high as 20 to 30 per cent, of all injury cases became infected. With 
the installation of preventive surgical methods, however, this complica- 
tion has been markedly reduced. 

It is difficult to obtain comparative figures from the different 
industrial clinics due to a divergence of opinion as to what constitutes 
an infected wound, and to the fact that many surgeons base their 
statistics only upon those cases which observe the rules concerning 
prevention. 

A wound which shows the least evidence of invasion by pyogenic 
organisms should be classified as an infected wound. Some of these 
will show only redness and a slight swelling for a day or two and 
will then recover without definite pus formation; while others may 
show no local sign of infection but a slight or marked lymphangitis 
will develop only to disappear in twenty-four to forty-eight hours 
without any further complications. I include such cases as these in 
my statistics as well as the wounds exuding pus. 

One surgeon reports that he has one infected case in every 1000 r 
and another states that one out of every 991 injuries becomes infected. 
Both of these surgeons consider only cases showing definite pus as 
infected, and both agree that they have many other infected cases 
to treat but these occur in employees who failed to report to the doctor 
at once, or who removed their dressings and otherwise neglected 
treatment. 

In the author's experience only 0.4 per cent, of the 26,616 more re- 
cent accident cases became infected where the employees observed all 
rules about reporting to the doctor at once and continuing constantly 
under treatment until the wound was healed (Table 18). 

Each year has seen a gradual reduction in the number of infected 
cases, but we still have a number of such to treat. As explained else- 
where this is due to the fact that employees still fail to report to the 
doctor at once; still refuse to consider very slight wounds worthy of 
any attention, just as you and I persist in neglecting the little scratches 

574 



HAND INFECTIONS 



575 



. 



and abrasions we receive almost daily; and still neglect to continue 
under treatment or persist in tampering with their dressings. Many 
of these employees report to the doctor with the wound already 
infected (Fig. 113). 

The following table shows the percentage of all infections as com- 
pared with the total number of accidents each year, for a period of five 
years. It illustrates three points very 
well, namely, that the number of 
infected cases made a very decided 
drop upon the introduction of more 
active preventive measures; that the 
percentage of infection cases is de- 
creasing year by year (about 80 per 
cent, of these occur among new em- 
ployees); and that the employees are 
reporting more and more to the doctor 
as shown by the increased number of 
accident cases. 

In the cases for the last four years 
shown in this table only 49 became 
infected after using iodin at once and 
reporting to the doctor at once; 80 
became infected after reporting to the 
doctor at once but failed to use iodin 
in the department. None of these 
were sufficiently infected, however, as 
to require an incision nor to remain 
away from work on account of the con- 
dition. The remaining 2436 infected 
cases failed to observe these rules con- 
cerning the use of iodin at once and 
the reporting to the doctor at once; 
71 per cent, of these required incision 
of the infected part; and all employees 
in this group lost a total of 9744 days 
from work or an average of four days 
per man. The economic waste to in- 
dustry is surely quite evident. 

Infections as a rule follow minor accidents, and these are by far 
the most difficult type to prevent. Infections following minor in- 
juries to fingers and hands make up at least 95 per cent, of the infected 
cases coming under treatment in the modern industrial clinic. There- 
fore it is very essential for the surgeon in industry to master all de- 
tails concerning the prevention and treatment of hand infections. 



FIG. 113. Cellulitis of forearm 
from a neglected slight abrasion of 
the elbow. Injured Oct. 3d, re- 
ported for treatment Oct. 10th. 
Immediate treatment would have 
prevented the infection and no dis- 
ability. This delayed treatment 
caused two months lost time from 
work and cost the employer three 
hundred and forty dollars. 



576 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 
TABLE 18 





1912 


1913 


1914 


1915 


1916 


1 Total number of accidents 


2693 


4970 


5971 


7760 


7925 


2 Total number of infections 


772 


710 


655 


586 


610 


(95% hands) 


(28.6%) 


14% 


10% 


7 5% 


7 6% 


3. Infected cases where iodin was used 
in department and then reported at 
once to doctor 


No 
record 


18 


16 


5 


10 


4. Infected cases where iodin was not 
used in department but reported at 
once 


No 
record 


2S 


28 


12 


12 


5. Infected cases where these rules 
were not observed 


No 
record 


668 


611 


569 


588 















The part played by hand infections in the economy of the indus- 
trial world is shown by the following statistics and statements from 
various industries and accident insurance companies: 

1. From 4971 accidents, 11 per cent, became infected. Total disa- 
bility from these accidents was 13,000 days, and 20 per cent, of this 
was due to the infections. 

2. From one of the stockyard plants: 

Seventy-five per cent, of disability from hand injuries is the result of 
infections; 25 per cent, of disability from hand infections is due to other 
causes, such as broken bones, etc.; 90 per cent, of these hand infections 
report late, after the infection has developed; 75 per cent, of their hand 
deformities are the result of infections. 

3. Figures obtained from the claim departments of five of our 
largest accident insurance companies: 

(a) Fifteen per cent, of the total disability is due to hand injuries. 
In 20 per cent, of these hand injuries, the disability is due to infections. 

(6) Seven per cent, to 9 per cent, of the total disability from all 
accidents is due to hand infections. 

(c) From 1000 consecutive cases, 5.7 per cent, of the total disa- 
bility was due to hand infections (chiefly business men insured). 

(d) From 15 to 20 per cent, of the total disability is due to hand 
infections. It depends on the type of work done by insured. When 
engaged in heavy work, where the injuries are usually serious, the in- 
fections are less, but if engaged in light work, where minor accidents 
are the rule, the infections are greatly increased. 

(e) Of all hand accidents, it is estimated that 65 per cent, requiring 
disability are the result of minor injuries which have become infected; 
35 per cent, requiring disability are due to other injuries, as broken 
fingers, lacerations, crushing injuries, etc. 

In talking with a number of company surgeons and managers of 



HAND INFECTIONS 577 

claim departments, I find that no definite statistics are available on 
this subject. They all agree, however, that: 

1. Hand infections cause a high percentage of their disability. 

2. Over 50 per cent, of their hand deformities are the result of 
infected injuries. 

3. A great many amputations result from neglected, infected 
fingers (Fig. 114). 

4. Hand infections are usually the result of minor injuries, such 
as pin pricks, nail wounds, splinters, scratches, small cuts, cracked 
hands, blisters, contusions, and abrasions. Such minor cases, as a 
rule, do not report to the doctor until the infection has developed. 



r 



-v. 




FIG. 114. Ankylosed middle finger following neglected hand infection. This finger 
was later amputated in order to give a better functional result. 

5. Severe hand injuries, such as extensive lacerations, or severe 
crushing injuries, seldom become infected. The nature of these injur- 
ies is such that the patients are forced to consult a doctor at once. 

6. That early treatment of all accidents, no matter how slight, 
would reduce infections to a marked degree. 

PREVENTION 

Prevention of infections is one of the most fertile fields of endeavor 
open to the company surgeon. It is the "Safety First" movement 
for the injured. A careful study of the etiology of every infection 
will show that the majority are due to preventable minor accidents, 
and by a removal of these causes a great reduction in infections will 
ensue. As an example, the lining of bins which had become loosened 
was the frequent cause of injuries which became infected. In every 
case, a notice was sent to the manager, pointing out the preventable 

37 



578 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

nature of this accident, and in one year the injuries from this source 
were reduced from 75 to 10. The same procedure was followed in the 
case of broken baskets, exposed ends of wire, nails on the floor, pins in 
packages, etc., all resulting in a decrease in minor accidents and, there- 
fore, in infections. 

Tincture of iodin is the greatest protection against infection that 
can be used. Every industry should supply each department with a 
bottle of tincture of iodin and another bottle containing applicators, 
and should instruct each employee to paint every wound, no matter 
how slight, with the tincture of iodin at once, even before reporting to 
the doctor. The importance of its use should be pointed out to the 
department foremen again and again, in order that they may instruct 
each new employee as to its value. (See Fig. 75.) 

The value of tincture of iodin as an antiseptic par excellence has 
been pointed out in the chapter on First Aid. 

The importance of early reporting to the doctor for a dressing is 
not only demonstrated by the figures in Table 18, but by the fact that 
major injuries, which force the employee to report at once, seldom 
become infected. 

Dr. Frederick C. Warnshuis declares that immediate reporting and 
proper treatment will reduce infection to less than 1 per cent. 

Dr. Corwin of the Colorado Fuel and Iron Company states that if 
the injured employees will see the doctor at once and if the wound is not 
handled, washed or dressed before seeing the doctor, 99 times out of a 
hundred it will not become infected. 

The following excerpt of a report made by a safety engineer of a 
large industry is very interesting especially as he feels that the immedi- 
ate reporting to the doctor is of more value than the use of iodin. By 
checking up on these cases, however, it was found that many had stated 
that iodin was used in the department, but failed to indicate that this 
was sometime after the accident. This engineer says: 

" The monthly accident report shows the distribution of infections 
according to cause and demonstrates that practically all infections 
result from slight injuries, such as, pin pricks, nail wounds, slivers, 
abrasions, etc., the total infections for the month being sixty-six. The 
figures show that only 4 cases out of the 66 resulted from injuries that 
were reported immediately to the hospital, which proves the efficiency 
of the hospital treatment. The balance were all reported anywhere 
from a few days to, in some cases, weeks later. Out of the 66 infec- 
tions it was necessary to open 40. 

"This report also shows that in 31 out of the 66 cases, iodin was used 
in the department, which proved that the use of iodin alone is not 
sufficient to prevent infections. 

"The dressing report shows that the average number of dressings 




HAND INFECTIONS 



579 



person for infections was 6.35, against 2.54 for uninfected cases; or, 
in other words, the patient loses about two and one-half times as 
much time in reporting an infected case as an uninfected case. 

"The last classification probably is the most interesting, as it shows 
the loss of time cases. Nineteen of the 66 infected cases caused a loss 
of time of a quarter of a day or more. The total loss of time for these 
19 cases was 202^ days, or an average of 10.6 days per case; and the 
time lost over a quarter of a day, due to infections, amounts to 23 per 
cent, of the total time lost from all loss of time accidents. 

"Since it has been shown that the infections result from minor in- 
juries which would not have developed into infections if they had been 




FIG. 115. Cellulitis of upper arm following a small scratch on the wrist from 
wall-paper. This employee had three disabling infections in the course of three months. 
His teeth were badly infected and on curing this trouble his tendency to "blood-poison- 
ing" ceased. 

reported immediately and would, therefore, only have required on the 
average 23^ dressings per case, it is fair to assume that the average 
time lost per case should not have exceeded ^ hour. So, in the 
tune lost by one of the above 19 cases, or 10.6 days, about 180 un- 
infected cases might have reported. 

"From these figures it would appear that the immediate reporting of 
all minor injuries will cut down the infections, and even though there 
will be an increase in the number of reported cases, the total time lost, 
and consequently the cost of the accidents, should decrease." 

Another form of prevention is the removal of all predisposing 
causes for infection in the employees themselves. The generally 
run down, anemic, undernourished individual, or those suffering from 
chronic diseases, are more prone to injuries and injury infections. 
Thus, the discovery of the diseased employee by a periodical medical 



580 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

examination of all employees is a valuable adjunct to any system of 
prevention. By proper advice many of these diseased conditions can 
be overcome; a change of work may be indicated in other cases, and 
the regulation of the employee's mode of living, both at work and at 
home, and as regards outdoor exercise, will correct a great many of the 
anemic, undernourished, and run down conditions. In girls, we fre- 
quently see recurring infections in the same individuals. A study of 
the case will reveal a marked anemia, the correction of which overcomes 
.her tendency to infections (Fig. 115). 

Tonsillitis, one of the chief causes of sick disability among em- 
ployees, also plays a marked role in the cause of infections. In the 
winter months, when tonsillitis is the most prevalent, our infections 
are correspondingly high. The coincidence of tonsillitis and finger 
and hand infections was noted so often that I made a careful bacterio- 
logical study of a series of these cases, and, as a rule, the same germ 
was found to be the cause of both. 

The following table shows this relationship. Note the increase 
in hand infections with the increase in tonsillitis. (These figures are 
taken from the same working force, with the same working conditions 
prevailing.) 

TABLE 19 

January and February, 1913. Total number cases of tonsillitis 327 

January and February, 1913. Total number cases of hand 

infections 83 

Total days disability from hand infections 63 

Number of hand infections having tonsillitis at time or just 

before infection developed 15, or 18 per cent. 

In 1914, we had in Chicago a serious epidemic of tonsillitis, of the streptococcic 
type. 

January and February, 1914. Total number cases of tonsillitis 603 

January and February, 1914. Total number cases of hand 

infections 117 

Total days of disability from hand infections 208 

Number of hand infections having tonsillitis at time or just 

before infection developed 32, or 27.9 per cent. 

The greatly increased disability in 1914 was due to 24 very serious 
cases with marked lymphangitis and tenosynovitis, all of whom had 
tonsillitis. Twelve of these were due to a hemolytic streptococcus, 
and the same organism was found in the patient's tonsils. Twelve 
others had a marked lymphangitis, and while the organism was not 
ascertained, yet these were undoubtedly streptococcic infections and 
closely related to the tonsillitis. 

The removal of the tonsils when diseased, therefore, would not 
only stop the sick disability and the spread of the disease throughout. 






HAND INFECTIONS 581 

a department as an epidemic, but would be a great preventive measure 
against infections. 

A further and very important factor in the prevention of infections 
is a suitable emergency office, where the most aseptic surgical treatment 
can be rendered. 

Thus the most valuable preventive measures to avoid infections are : 

1. The use of tincture of iodin at once as a prophylactic measure. 

2. The sending of every injured employee to the doctor for im- 
mediate dressing. 

3. Removal of external causes for accidents found in the working 
place. 

4. Removal of predisposing causes for infections found in the 
employees. 

ACTIVE TREATMENT 

When an infection has once developed, the best medical treatment 
is at times the most expensive, but in the long run, it is the most 
economical. Too often, a doctor hopes to save his patient loss of time, 
or, if he is a company surgeon, he hopes to treat the case and still keep 
him at work: thus he adopts what at first seems the most economic 
line of treatment, but, by so doing, frequently temporizes with the 
infection. The death-rate from hand infections among the medical 
profession is notoriously high. I believe this is due not so much to 
the peculiar nature of the doctor's work, wherein he is brought into 
close contact with diseased conditions, as to the fact that most doctors 
temporize with an infection which they have contracted, rather than 
adopt active treatment at once. 

From a careful study of 1600 cases of finger and hand infections 
and their complications I am convinced that a radical form of treatment 
of all hand infections is the best and cheapest plan that can be adopted. 

The initial cost of such treatment will exceed a temporizing effort, 
such as opening an infection in the office and allowing the patient 
to go about his duties, but the length of treatment and the complica- 
tions developing from the latter method will far exceed that which 
follows the treatment of all infections as serious from their incep- 
tion. In dealing with this subject from an economic viewpoint, it is 
not the actual cost of medical services which is referred to, but the 
actual economy to the patient and to the concern for which he works. 
The most perfect line of treatment must give : 

1. The shortest, disability, with a minimum amount of suffering, 
and the fewest hardships to those dependent upon the patient; 

2. It must prevent permanent deformities, such as loss of function, 
or loss of fingers; 

3. It must reduce the death-rate to a minimum. 



582 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



These 1600 cases of hand infections were chiefly the result of 
minor accidents, such as the following, named in their order of fre- 
quency: pin pricks, splinters, abrasions from baskets, boxes, bins, etc.; 
lacerations from knives, scissors, and other sharp utensils; bruises 
and contusions, nail wounds, scratches from tin and wire. The 
greater portion of these infections were very slight causing no loss 
of time from work, and requiring from 3 to 10 dressings. Nevertheless, 
there was a certain disability connected with them, as an employee 
with a bandaged finger or hand has less working capacity than an 




FIG. 116. Slight infections, especially lymphangitis, are treated as serious from 
their inception. Rest, immobilization of the part and continuous applications of heat 
usually abort these in twenty-four hours. (Men's rest room, doctor's office.) 

unhampered employee. Therefore, reduction in the total number of 
infections means a marked saving in this form of disability. It has 
been further reduced by careful attention to the simplest, yet adequate, 
dressing which can be applied. A certain number of the above 
infections became serious, requiring considerable treatment either 
at home or at the hospital, and caused an actual loss of time from work. 
Thus, the 1600 cases may be classified as follows:. 

(a) Mild, or causing no loss of time, 1 1 89, or 74 per cent. 

(6) Serious, or causing loss of time, 411, or 26 per cent. 

In order to arrive at the best and most economic treatment of 
these hand infections, it is necessary for us to study the 411 cases 



HAND INFECTIONS 



583 



from the above table which were serious enough to require actual 
disability. 

One of two plans of treatment was adopted in every case of hand 
infection; namely, ambulatory treatment, or hospital treatment. The 




FIG. 117. Lymphangitis of the arm from an infected abrasion on back of hand. 
Thirty-six hours in the hospital with continuous hot dressings relieved this condition 
without surgical interference. 

ambulatory care consisted in opening the infected part at the doctor's 
office and allowing the patient to go home, reporting to the office for 




FIG. 118. Thenar space abscess from a neglected knife wound of thumb. Through 
and through drainage under a general anesthetic and hospital treatment for three 
days gave a prompt recovery without deformity. 

subsequent dressings. Frequently these infections were incised with 
the use of a local anesthetic, but a general anesthetic was never admin- 
istered in the doctor's office. When necessary, instructions were given 



584 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



to the patient as to the use of hot dressings at home, and a nurse would 
call to see that these instructions were carried out. Naturally these 
infections were not as serious as those given hospital treatment, 
but in spite of this fact their average disability was greater. The ab- 
solute rest obtained by hospital treatment would cause more rapid 
recovery of these cases, but the idea of going to a hospital for a small, 
minor infection does not appeal to most patients. 

When a hand infection showed signs of becoming at all serious, or 
threatened complications were apparent, we insisted upon hospital 




Fio. 119. Tenosynovitis of middle finger, with middle palmar abscess, result of 
cutting finger on steel tag. The patient was given ambulatory treatment after an 
effort was made to drain the abscess through a small incision on the flexor surface of the 
finger. Proper early drainage of the synovial sheath of the finger would have prevented 
this serious condition. 

treatment. Here the infection could be opened under a general 
anesthetic of nitrous oxid gas, and the patient kept absolutely quiet 
in bed, with continuous hot, moist dressings applied until the acuteness 
of the condition had subsided. Likewise, many cases of threatened 
serious infection could be aborted and the necessity of opening these 
overcome by sending the patient to the hospital, giving him absolute 
rest in bed, preventing. the movement of the infected part, and applying 
continuous hot packs for twenty-four or forty-eight hours (Fig. 117). 

The use of a general gas anesthetic is one of the most valuable 
features of hospital treatment when it is necessary to operate on these 



HAND INFECTIONS 



585 



hands. The work of the operator is much more thorough, and in- 
cisions into the infected part are larger and better drainage is estab- 
lished. Wide-open, radical treatment of these infections means a much 
more rapid recovery; therefore, the advantage of this procedure (Fig. 
118). The history of the treatment of hand infections is too often 
one of following the pus by making additional incisions. Frequently 
an infected hand is operated upon two, three, or even more times; 
whereas, if sufficient drainage is established at the first incision, 
subsequent openings are not necessary. 

Ninety-five per cent, of the infected hands requiring two or more 
operations occur in those cases given office treatment (Fig. 119). 

Besides reducing disability, a number of these serious hand in- 
fections would have resulted in permanent deformities if this radical 
form of treatment had not been adopted early. The accompanying 
table demonstrates the great advantages of hospital treatment for 
hand infections as compared to ambulatory treatment: 

TABLE 20 

AMBULATORY VERSUS HOSPITAL TREATMENT OF SERIOUS HAND 

INFECTIONS 





Treated at 
doctor's office 
and at home 


Treated at 
hospital 


Total number 


253 


146 


Opened 


210 


78 


Not opened 


43 or 17% 


68 or 46 5% 


Total loss of time from work 


2790 days 


1088 days 


Average loss of time, per case 


11.02 days 


7 . 4 days 


Permanent disability, as loss of function or member 
Deaths 






2 1 










From a study of the above facts, I am positive that dangerous 
infections can be prevented and disability reduced by the early adop- 
tion of hospital treatment. The reasons, therefor, are: 

First, the patient can be kept absolutely quiet and under better 
control than at home. This is very essential, as most of these 
infections are accompanied by a low grade fever. 

Second, continuous hot dressings can be better applied by a 
trained nurse than by the relatives. 

Third, better operations can be performed because of the general 
gas anesthetic, thus reducing the length of treatment, and necessitat- 
ing fewer repeated operations. 

There are twelve very serious, complicated cases of hand infections 



1 25 per cent, loss of function by stiff middle finger, 
by stiff thumb. 



10 per cent, loss of function 



586 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

from this series which are not included in the above table, as these 
were first given home treatment, usually by their family physician, 
and later, as a final resort, came under our care at the hospital. The 
serious results of this delayed treatment are conclusively demonstrated 
by the following table: 




FIG. 120. A deformed hand the result of: a, Neglected nail scratch failed to 
use iodin; b, neglected early surgical care; c, poor surgical judgment a small incision 
when through and through drainage was indicated. 

TABLE 21 

SERIOUS, COMPLICATED CASES TREATED AT HOME AND TAKEN TO 
HOSPITAL AS FINAL RESORT 

Total number 12 

Opened 12 

Total loss of time from work 379 days 

Average loss of time, per case 31.5 days 

Permanent disability, loss of function or member 5 1 

Deaths 

A short resume of two of these cases is typical of the entire series 
of twelve hand infections. 

Miss K., 17 years old, pricked the middle finger of her right hand 
with a pin on January 5, 1914. This was two days after her 
employment. One of the witnesses suggested the use of iodin, but 
the patient did not think this necessary. January 10, five days 
later, she reported to the doctor's office with marked lymphangitis of 

1 First joint index finger right hand stiff, one case. 
First and third fingers of right hand are flexed and stiff, one case. 
Four fingers of right hand slightly flexed and stiff, one case. 
Index finger left hand amputated, one case. 
Index finger right hand amputated, one case. 



HAND INFECTIONS 



587 



the arm and considerable induration about the axilla, which extended 
onto the chest wall, subclavicularly and back to the border of the 
scapula. Swelling was quite firm and tender, but no inflammatory 
reaction of the skin was present. Temperature was 102; pulse 100. 
Had a slight tonsillitis and pharyngitis, but otherwise the general 
examination was negative. There was no localized infection about the 
point of injury. The patient was sent to the hospital and under a 




FIG. 121. 

general anesthetic the axillary and the shoulder absesses were incised 
at three different points, and tube and gutta-percha drainage inserted. 
At least 8 ounces of thin, yellowish pus was evacuated. Large hot 
boracic dressings were applied to the site of operation and a second 
large hot dressing applied from the fingers to the axilla over the site 
of the lymphangitis. Subsequent course: In spite of the evacuation 
of the pus, the temperature continued to rise. The second day the 




FIG. 122. 

FIGS. 121 and 122. Show a deformed middle finger following a neglected splinter 
wound. This finger was later amputated in order to obtain a better economic end- 
result. 

temperature was 103, pulse 120; third day, 103^, pulse 120; fourth 
day, 105, pulse 140. The patient was exceedingly sick and showed 
all the signs of a general systemic infection. The fifth day, tempera- 
ture was 104, pulse 120; the sixth day, temperature 100 to 102; 
and from this time on it gradually subsided, until at the end of two 
> weeks it reached normal and remained there. On the third day, a 



588 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



stock streptococcus vaccine was injected, and on the fourth day, a 
small dose (50 million) of autogenous vaccine, which had been pre- 
pared, was administered. A slightly larger dose of autogenous vac- 
cine was given on the sixth day, and again on the ninth day. These 
vaccines were repeated every four days for four more doses. She left 
the hospital at the end of three and one-half weeks, and recovery 
was complete at the end of five weeks. The neglect of this minor 
injury and the late reporting after the trouble had started were the 
chief reasons for this girl's serious sickness. 

Mr. E., an old employee, received a slight contusion of the hand 
on March 4, 1912. The cause of the accident was unknown. He 
had been under the care of his family physician because he did not 
think his work was responsible for the injury. The hand at first 
became swollen, then the forearm, which was badly inflamed and very 




FIG. 123. A deformed hand following a cellulitis of the forearm. This man was 
treated in his home by his family physician for two weeks. Numerous small incisions 
were made without adequate drainage. Recovery did not occur until he was taken to 
the hospital and the deep abscesses drained. This temporizing treatment caused 
four months disability and the permanent loss of function in the hand. 

tender. This swelling increased until his family physician was called 
on the fourth day. Three small incisions were made on the flexor 
surface of the forearm and were extended through the skin to the 
fascia. A little serous exudate was found, but no pus. These incisions 
became infected, and superficial abscesses developed on the forearm 
during the next ten days. These were opened and drained by small 
incisions. The swelling in the arm increased to an immense size 
and the entire forearm assumed a dark-red, brawny appearance. 
The patient came under my care March 18 and was taken to the 
hospital. A diagnosis of diffuse cellulitjs of the forearm was made, 
with large collections of pus in both the ulnar and radial bursae 
and the intramuscular spaces. Under a general anesthetic, large 
incisions were made at each side of the forearm, just above the wrist- 




HAND INFECTIONS 



589 



joint, and the ulnar and radial bursae drained by through-and- 
through drainage. A large incision was then made through the upper 
two-thirds of the forearm, slightly to the ulnar side of the middle 
of the flexor surface. From this incision, all intramuscular 
abscesses were opened and drained. Infection was found to be a 
staphylococcus pyogenes aureus, and autogenous vaccines were made 
and used for several weeks. This man ran a temperature from 99 




FIG. 124. Deformed hand following severe hand infection from neglected pin prick. 

to 102, with a weak thready pulse of 110 to 130 for at least six weeks. 
He gave the typical picture of sepsis. Acute nephritis developed, 
but gradually disappeared with recovery from his infection. For 
several days we despaired of this man's life. Recovery was prac- 
tically complete about the middle of June, some three months later. 
Permanent deformities remain in this case. His four fingers are 




FIG. 125. Same as Fig. 115 three months later. This deformity was overcome by the 

constant use of a hammer. 

flexed about 25 per cent, and cannot be completely extended nor 
closed. 

This man's long disability, loss of function in the fingers, and the 
narrow escape from death were all the result of neglecting a simple 
injury, trying ambulatory treatment when hospital treatment should 
have been instituted together with inadequate drainage during the 
early course of the disease (Fig. 123). 



590 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



The remainder of the cases in this group all neglected prophy- 
lactic measures at the time of the minor injury; a few were given 
first aid by fellow employees, as attempted removal of a splinter from 
the hand, in which case a portion of it was left in ; all reported to the 
doctor from three days to one month after receiving their injuries; 
and four were given office treatment by their family physicians 
for a few days before being sent to the hospital. The five cases of 
permanent deformities, two with loss of fingers, are the direct result of 
the above negligence. 



ECONOMIC VALUE OF PROPER DIAGNOSIS OF LOCATION OF PUS AND 
PROPER SURGICAL INTERFERENCE IN HAND INFECTIONS 

Many cases of prolonged disability and also of permanent defor- 
mities result from a wrong diagnosis of the type of infection, a lack 
of understanding as to the location of the pus, and inadequate sur- 
gical interference either too small incisions, or at times too large 




Fia. 126. A lateral incision, instead of on the flexor surface, over the tendon, fur- 
nishes better drainage and prevents deformity. 

or too many incisions. Some of our cases of serious deformities come 
under this heading. Kanavel has demonstrated conclusively that 
there are certain definite spaces where infection, entering at various 
points on the hand, tends to spread. The most important of these 
spaces are: 

1. The synovial sheaths about the tendons the commonest site 
for the more serious forms of hand infections (Fig. 126). 

2. The lumbrical and subapo neurotic space at the edge of the palm,, 
where the so-called "collar-button" abscesses form. 



HAND INFECTIONS 591 

3. The thenar space. 

4. The middle palmar space. 

5. The hypothenar space. 

6. The radial bursa. 

7. The ulnar bursa. 

Through the last two spaces, infections usually spread from the 
hand to the forearm. 

A knowledge of these spaces and the location of injuries that usu- 
ally lead to their involvement should be had to properly open and 
drain these most serious types of hand infections. To know the re- 
lations and boundaries of these various spaces is just as important as 
it is to know where to enter the abdomen for the appendix or to reach 
the gall-bladder. In other words, infections about the fingers and 
hand have too long been considered of rather minor importance and 




^. 



a, 

BT T 'TTft r L . .'-**. -uXaiH 

FIG. 127. A "collar-button" abscess from a neglected infected callous. 

have been treated accordingly, whereas they must be recognized as 
very grave, serious conditions and must be studied and treated by 
the most approved surgical procedure. Every possible adjunct, 
both locally and constitutionally, must be employed to hasten re- 
covery and prevent a spread of the infection. 

A classification of the various types, as to location, of the 411 cases 
of hand infections which were serious enough to cause disability will 
give the relative frequency of the involvement of these different 
spaces. 



592 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

I. The types of hand infections, named in their order of frequency, which 
were given ambulatory treatment: 

(a) Paronychia 90 

(6) Superficial or subepithelial abscesses 72 

(c) Abscesses in superficial connective-tissue spaces cellulitis of hand 45 

(d) Carbuncular infections 20 

(e) Lymphangitis of arm from hand injury 13 

(/) Felons 10 

(gr) Collar-button abscesses (distal edge of palm) 3 

Total 253 

II. The types of hand infections, named in their order of frequency, which 
were given hospital treatment: 

(a) Lymphangitis of arm from hand injuries 59 

(6) Felons 24 

(c) Tenosynovitis 24 

(d) Abscesses in superficial connective-tissue spaces cellulitis of hand 14 

(e) Collar-button abscesses 7 

(/) Carbuncular infections 5 

(0) Middle palmar space infections 5 

(h) Paronychia 3 

(1) Thenar space infections 3 

(j) Hypothenar space infections ......' 2 

Total 146 

III. The twelve very serious cases where active treatment was adopted late 
were characterized by having more than one space involved, or some other form 
of complication, as follows: 

(a) Diffuse cellulitis of hand and arm and general sepsis. 
(6) Middle palmar space and ulnar bursa. 

(c) Tenosynovitis and necrosis of bone of index finger. 

(d) Tenosynovitis and multiple abscesses of arm. 

(e) Diffuse cellulitis of hand and arm. 

(/) Tenosynovitis, middle palmar abscess, and necrosis of bone. 

(g) Thenar space, middle palmar space, and ulnar bursa. 

(h) Tenosynovitis and middle palmar space. 

(i) Superficial abscess of hand, lymphangitis, and axillary abscess. 

(j) Superficial abscess of hand, lymphangitis, axillary abscess, and subclavicular 

and subscapular abscess of chest wall and general sepsis, 
(fc) Lymphangitis, axillary abscess, and subclavicular abscess of chest wall. 
(0 Lumbrical space abscess and necrosis of bone. 

Besides definitely ascertaining the location of the pus, a differ- 
ential diagnosis of the type of infection should be made in every case 
showing signs of becoming serious. In this way complications which 
may be expected from more virulent organisms can be anticipated 
and guarded against. Again chronic infections which have resisted 
all treatment may be found due to some obscure condition or rare 
organism. For example, a young man scratched his forearm upon a 



HAND INFECTIONS 



593 



piece of tin nailed to a bin. It became infected and resisted all treat- 
ment for a period of two weeks. The first cultures were reported as 
negative. Finally cultures were again made and were reported as 
"no growth" after forty-eight hours. After seventy-two hours, how- 
ever, the laboratory assistant reported that we were dealing with a 
case of Sporotrichosis caused by the Sporothrix Schenkii. The line 
of treatment was modified accordingly and recovery resulted shortly 
afterward. (See Fig. 128.) 




Fio. 128. Case of Sporotrichosis (sporothrix Schenkii). Failure to diagnose the cause 
of this infection delayed recovery at least two weeks. 

The operative procedures and the general and local treatment 
required for hand infections is dealt with in detail by Kanavel in his 
book on " Hand Infections. " Likewise many interesting contributions 
on this subject have been made to the medical literature as a result of 
the various experiences in war surgery. The reader is referred to 
these sources. 

Both Dr. Sherman of the Carnegie Steel Company and Dr. Corwin 
of the Colorado Fuel and Iron Company have introduced the Carrel- 
Dakin method of combating infections into their industrial surgery 

38 



594 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



' 







FIG. 129. Cellulitis of the arm from an industrial injury being treated by the Carrel- 

Dakin method. 



? 




FIG. 130. Sterile instruments and tubes are handed to doctor by nurse with sterile 

instruments. 




HAND INFECTIONS 



595 



and claim most excellent results. These two surgeons visited France 
and made personal studies of this method of treatment which may 
account for their results. It is quite evident that many of the un- 




FIQ. 131. Smear of wound being taken for bacterial count. 

favorable reports concerning the Carrel-Dakin treatment are due to 
lack of familiarity of applying the method (Figs. 130 to 135). 

The Dichloramine-T treatment of infections has also corne into 




FIG. 132. Wound with Carrel tubes inserted ready for external dressings. 

prominence since the war. Dr. Lee of Philadelphia has published 
numerous reports concerning its use. In my own clinic this has 
proven very efficacious in securing the more rapid recovery of many 



596 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SUEGERY 



chronic infections, as for instance the infected abrasions or a periostitis 
with ulcer formation over the shin bone. It is an excellent method 
of treatment for old chronic hand infections. 




FIQ. 133. Gauze taken from sterile package with sterile instruments. 

Many surgeons treat these hand infections by the continuous hot 
boric dressing method. Results depend upon the frequent changing 




FIG. 134. Sterile gauze applied to the wound. 

of these dressings otherwise they soon become saturated with the 
infected pus truely pus dressings instead of boric dressings. 




HAND INFECTIONS 



597 



Adequate drainage, hot dressings frequently changed, with immo- 
bilization of the infected part have proven very beneficial in the past. 
Careful records and comparison of results between this and the newer 
principles regarding infection treatment are necessary before determin- 
ing which will give the desired end the quickest recovery with the 
least loss of function. 





Fio. 135. Bandaging wound over the tubes and dressing. (Clinic of Dr. Conoin.) 



CONCLUSIONS 

The treatment of hand infections, therefore, in order to give the 
best results from every viewpoint must include: 

1. The proper preventive measures, especially the prophylactic use 
of tincture of iodin and the early reporting of all minor injuries. 

2. The treatment of hand infections as a serious surgical condition 
from their inception, and whenever indicated the adoption of hospital 
treatment early. 

3. The proper and early diagnosis of the type and nature of in- 
fection and the exact location of the pus. 

4. A 'proper incision of the abscess in order to establish adequate 
drainage and yet not spread the infection to other spaces. 

5. The immobilization of the infected part and the frequent 
changing of the dressing whatever method is used. 



CHAPTER XXXVII 
FRACTURES 

Prior to the war industrial surgery furnished one of the greatest 
opportunities for advancement in the handling of fracture cases. If we 
combine with our past experiences the vast material concerning 
fracture treatment which has accumulated during these four years of 
war, still greater advances in this branch of surgery will be made. 

Fractures undoubtedly contribute more to the absentee rate among 
injured employees than any other type of injury. The claims for 
permanent disability are also more frequently the result of fractures 
than from any other cause. Thus it is evident that greater attention 
must be paid to the handling of fracture cases from the standpoint of, 
first, their prevention, and second, their treatment from an economic 
point of view. 

The number of fracture cases can be greatly reduced in any industry 
by the methods described for preventing accidents. In addition to 
this the spirit of prevention must invade the entire working force so 
that every employee will be on the lookout for obstructions and pit- 
falls which can cause a fellow employee to fall and injure himself. In 
my experience falls have been responsible for 70 per cent, of the 
fracture cases presenting themselves for treatment. During the first 
year of the war out of 24,000 injuries due to accidents from industrial 
causes in the army, 12,626 were due to falls, and of this number 2,147 
sustained fractures. 

Therefore, a campaign directed toward the removal of obstructions, 
the protection of high places, the fencing in of excavations, the testing 
of ladders and elevations before using them, the repair of broken floors 
and sidewalks, the proper attention to the shoes of employees, and the 
eradication of all other things making falls possible, will certainly 
prevent at least 50 per cent, of the fracture cases. 

The following are the high lights in the economic treatment of 
fractures : 

1. The use of the oxray. Every fracture should be re-rayed before 
and after it is "set" and always from two or more different angles. 
This is often neglected because of the expense attached to the procedure, 
but one cause of faulty functional result will cost more than ^-raying 
every fracture case for a year. The reduction and coaptation of many 
broken bones can be facilitated by the use of the fluoroscope. Every 

598 



FRACTURES 



599 



industry where a fair number of fractures occur among the employees 
should have a surgical dispensary equipped with an x-ray apparatus. 

2. The immediate immobilization of the fractured member. The 
improved results in fracture work in many industries has been due to 
the presence of a surgeon on the job, who could properly immobilize 
the part before transportation was attempted. This principle has 
been further strengthened by the work of the regimental surgeons at 
the front. When a surgeon is not available then first aid assistants 
should be thoroughly trained in these methods of fixation and 
transportation . 

Major Horace Allen (The Military Surgeon, April, 1918) has made 
a suggestion relative to the proper stretcher for severe fractures of the 




Fia. 136. A stretcher table. (Allen, from The Military Suryeon.) 
Such a stretcher would enable the transportation of a severe accident case to the 
doctor's office where emergency treatment could be rendered, and later transported 
to the hospital all without unnecessarily disturbing the patient. 

spine, pelvis or femur which can very well be adapted to industrial 
surgery. It has been customary to carry these severe fracture cases to 
the surgical dispensary where emergency care is rendered. When the 
ambulance arrives the patient is transferred to the ambulance stretcher 
and on arriving at the hospital he is again transferred to the hospital 
bed. These movements are exceedingly painful to the patient and are 
liable to interfere with the best functional results. Allen suggests 
using a padded stretcher with legs which can be used to transport the 
patient and also as his bed in the hospital for a few weeks. He claims 
that the patients find the stretcher bed more comfortable than a 
hospital bed. It would undoubtedly facilitate the handling of the case 



600 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



by the doctor and nurse. Major Allen thus describes the accompany- 
ing illustrations : 

"A litter resting on four sticks passed through rectangular holes 
in the tread into the sockets at the top of the stirrups. At the head 
and foot of the litter are adjustable extensions. Near the head end is 
a head rest which is automatically locked in place when the spreader 
bars put the canvas on the stretch. In the middle is the bed-pan, 
attached to the canvas in such a way that it has to be open when 
attached and has to be closed in order to be detached. Near the foot 
end is a substitute for the Balkan frame, namely, a swinging traveling 




FIG. 137. 



The practical use of a stretcher bed in an army hospital. 
by Thayer.) 



(From a Painting 



crane, balanced or unbalanced, capable of giving any variety of move- 
ments, or standing stationary. It can be attached or removed in less 
than one minute. The attachment piece crosses underneath the poles 
of the litter." 

Some of the possibilities of such a stretcher bed are well illustrated 
in the painting "Why Not" by Sergt. Thayer, of the Army Medical 
Museum (Fig. 137). 

Quicker and better results will be obtained if more attention is 
paid by surgeons to the prompt immobilization of fractures and to 
the proper facilities for their transportation. 



FRACTURES 



601 



3. The use of an anesthetic for reducing and fixing the fracture. 

4. The early use of passive motion, massage and muscular ex- 
ercises in all fractures. In the majority of broken bones after they 
have once been properly set and fixed it is perfectly safe to gently 
loosen the splints and give massage. The sooner passive motion and 
then active motion can be established the better will be the functional 
result. For this reason I avoid as far as possible the use of the circular 
plaster cast which prevents these methods of maintaining tone and 
function in the adjacent muscles. The surgeon treating fractures must 
not be content to put them up in a cast and not see the case again for 
a month or six weeks when the cast is removed. These patients 
require almost daily attention to obtain the best results. 

5. The therapeutic adjunct of "keeping these patients busy" 
is of the greatest importance in shortening their period of disability. 
If the fracture is of such a nature as to confine the patient to bed, then 
"bedside occupations" should be provided. He should be given 
regular exercises in bed and taught how to exercise the muscles in the 
injured member without moving the adjacent joints. For the ambu- 
latory cases work is the best medicine. These men tend to develop 
habits of loafing and postpone as long as possible their return to work. 
If, however, they are assigned easy tasks at the plant they can often 
return to work within a week after the injury, before the habit of 
loafing has developed. Thus I seldom allow my cases of fractured 
arm to remain away from work until recovery is completed. Dr. 
Farnum states that 80 per cent, of all his fracture cases are placed 
at some light, useful work 'within a week after the accident and the 
period of disability and the actual time the patient is under treatment 
have been greatly reduced thereby. 

6. The judicious and early use of massage, mechanotherapy, and 
hydrotherapy will be found of the greatest value in overcoming the 
swelling and sluggish circulation in the extremity which has been im- 
mobilized for some time. We have followed a very uneconomical 
practice in allowing these conditions to gradually disappear of their 
own accord. Proper active treatment of a fracture throughout 
will eliminate the chronically swollen extremity which worries the 
patient so much and tends to prolong his disability weeks longer than 
is necessary. 

For the treatment of specific fractures the reader is referred to 
any one of the excellent text-books on this subject. Nevertheless 
so many advances have been made in the treatment of fractures 
during the war that it is desirable to point out the most important 
improvements which are applicable to industrial surgery. 

Dr. Irving Clark, of Worcester, Mass., had an unusual experience 
in fracture work during his eight months service with the American 



602 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



Red Cross in France. He is also familiar with the problems 
which confront the industrial surgeon. Therefore, the author per- 
suaded him to write the following article which is pregnant with 
suggestions applicable to this field of surgery: 

"The treatment of fractures in industrial surgery may be divided 
into the treatment of simple and compound fractures. The treatment 
of simple fractures is divided into emergency and permanent treatment. 

"Fractures occurring in industry are more severe than in ordinary 
practice because of the frequency of direct violence as a cause. 

EMERGENCY TREATMENT 

"Emergency treatment, while it can be carried out by a foreman 
trained in first aid, can in most cases be done better by the industrial 
surgeon. 

"The emergency treatment consists of immediate immobilization 
in approximate alignment. This is obtained by traction and fixation, 
the fixation being so managed that the patient may be transferred to 
the hospital with a minimum of pain and shock. The permanent 
treatment consists in complete reduction and immobilization. In the 
treatment of fractures, there are four basic rules which are always 
safe to follow : Always have a good x-ray. Always use a general anes- 
thetic. When reducing endeavor to obtain an interlocking of the 
fragments end to end, and immobilize in the position which will hold 
them in alignment with the least strain. When one of the fragments 
is held in a certain position by muscular spasm, the other fragment 
should be approximated to it and held in alignment with it by the splint. 

"In a brief cha'pter such as this, it is impossible and unnecessary 
to consider the classic fractures, their reduction and the various forms 
of splints which can be used for their retention. Information of the 
most complete kind can be obtained in such text-books as Scudder's 
'Treatment of Fractures/ Moorhead's 'Traumatic Surgery,' Stim- 
son's 'Fractures' and Cotton's 'Fractures of the Joints.' Our efforts 
here will be to point out slight modifications of standard dressings and 
splints, and particularly to bring out the most recent work done in the 
war hospitals where fractures play a very important part. 

"The industrial surgeon will do well to limit his emergency splints 
to as small a number as possible and not only know himself, but have 
trained his assistants, in the rapid application of each type. The fol- 
lowing list of splints may prove useful as a basis: 1 

1 At the beginning of the war over 200 different types of splints were used by 
the English. A committee on standardization first reduced this number to 112 
and later to less than 50. The medical department of the A. E. F. early stand- 
ardized the fracture work in our army so that eight varieties of splints made up 
the total used. (Author's note.) 



FRACTURES 603 

"1. Six basswood splints cut in 16-inch lengths trade width. It 
is well to have these all ready thickly padded with sheet wadding. 
For use in fractures of forearm. 

" 2. Two Thomas hip splints, army pattern. For use in fractures 
of the femur. The splint consists of a padded ring, slightly ovoid in 
shape, set upon two iron wire rods at an angle of 55 degrees with the 
outer rod. The rods are three-eighths of an inch in diameter. At the 
inner and shorter of these two rods the ring is twice as heavily padded 
as at the outer, and the ring is symmetrically depressed at either side of 
the inner rod to form a concavity which hugs the ischial ramus and 
fits snugly around the ischial tuberosity. The long and short diam- 
eters of this ring vary since the splint as used by the British army 
comes in several sizes, but a ring of average size measures across the 
long diameter 9^ inches, and across the short diameter 9 inches. 
The outer rod descends from the ring vertically for 2^ inches and 




FIG. 138. Thomas splint. 

then inclines toward the inner rod. At the starting point of the in- 
ner rod the two wires are 8^ inches apart and at the bottom they 
are continuous in an indented or notched end, 3^ inches in width, 
about which the traction bands are wound and knotted. The out- 
side rod is 47 inches in length and the inside rod 42 inches in length, 
The space between the rods may be varied by bending them outward 
and inward. If desired the splints may be bent at the knee (Fig. 138) . 

" 3. Twelve wooden tongue depressors, thickly padded. For frac- 
tured fingers. 

"Supplies for use in emergency treatment of fractures. 

" 1. Twelve bandages 3 inches wide 6 gauze, 6 muslin. 

"2. Six packages large safety pins. 

"3. Two folded pillow cases for axillary pads. 

"4. Four triangular slings, army design. 

"5. One roll of Z. O. adhesive plaster, 5 yards X 12 inches. For 
fracture of clavicle and for retention of basswood splints. 

"6. Two pillows with pillow cases. For leg fractures. 



604 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



" The standard methods of applying these splints and supplies to 
the most frequent fractures will be found in the Red Cross First Aid 
Manual. 

" There are certain points about their application which are im- 
portant. Little difficulty will be experienced with the emergency 
treatment of fractures of the clavicle and humerus. These can be 
treated in the classic way with slings and bandages. 

"Fractures of the forearms should always be splinted with double 
boards and the forearm should be supported at right angles to the 
humerus. 




FIG. 139. Strapping of chest for fractured ribs. Note that plaster extends two-thirds 
around the body and that the straps overlap, being applied from below upward. 

"Fractures of the ribs should be at once immobilized with adhesive 
plaster. The strips should be four inches wide, and long enough to 
encircle two-thirds of the chest (Fig. 139). 

"The strapping should be applied from below upward, each strip 
overlapping the one below. Too much snugness cannot be obtained. 
The strap should be put on with pressure. 

"Fractures of the thigh should be treated by the Thomas hip splint. 
The method of applying this is as follows : With the patient lying in a 
comfortable position apply traction to the injured leg. 'Adequate 
and comfortable traction can be secured with a bandage, which is al- 
ways at hand and, therefore, most strongly recommended. Various 
ingenious substitutes have been suggested and employed and are wor- 



FRACTURES 



605 



thy of mention. A screw-eye may be inserted in the heel of the boot ; 
a nail or skewer may be pressed through the shank of the shoe and 
cords attached to its projecting ends; a horseshoe shaped wire with 
inward facing prongs can be hooked over the welt of the shoe on both 
sides and a traction cord be attached to the ring of the horseshoe. 
These methods demand special articles sure to be lost or mislaid, while 
bandage traction is always available.' 

"The technic of the application is important. Take a double 
length of four-inch bandage a yard and a half long. Place the middle 
of this traction band back of the shoe just above the counter. Wrap 
both ends across the instep and round under the sole in the usual 
figure-of-eight manner. Bring each end up on its respective side and 
carry its under the lateral part of the bandage behind the malleolus, 
then over this bandage and directly downward, thus providing two 




FIG. 140. Thomas splint hastily applied for emergency. 

for traction. 



Note hitch in region of ankle 



lateral traction bands. The loops should be well back of the malleoli 
so that the line of traction is behind the ankle-joint. A generous pad 
should be placed over the instep beneath the crossing of the bands to 
prevent pressure. It must be borne in mind that grave injuries of the 
leg interfere with its circulation and that pressure sores develop from 
incredibly slight trauma. 

"Slip the Thomas splint on gently and fit the ring well at the ischial 
bearing. Carry each traction band half around the corresponding 
uprights, passing one over and one under its upright, and then bring 
each one in opposite directions once about the notched iron piece at 
the lower end of the splint and tie with square half bow-knot. A nail 
or bit of wood slipped between the bands below where they have been 
brought about the uprights may be twisted as in a Spanish windlass 
to increase the traction at will (Figs. 140 and 141). 

"A bandage about the whole splint completes the dressing. For 



606 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



speed, this may be applied from above downward, as there is no danger 
of constricting the limb with a bandage carried outside the uprights 
of the splints. 

"A coaptation splint is often used as a posterior splint to increase 
the support of the thigh. This is desirable but by no means necessary, 
as the dressing as above described gives adequate and comfortable 
support. 

" 'Transfer to the Stretcher. The stretcher should be provided with 
a heavy splint support which springs on to the side bars. The patient 
should be carefully lifted on to the stretcher by four bearers. The 
end of the splint should be slung to the cross bar of the splint support 
by a bandage, so that the leg clears the stretcher, and also tied to each 
upright of the splint support to prevent side sway. 1 




Fia. 141. Thomas splint further applied before the application of bandage. Note 
bandages tied around leg in the region of fracture to set leg on splint. A further 
bandage may be applied over the whole for additional security, but the rigging as shown 
is sufficient for transportation for short distances. 

"Fractures of the leg can usually be comfortably immobilized by a 
pillow splint. When the fracture is very severe and there is much 
pain and displacement the Thomas splint should be used. 

"Pott's fracture and fractures of the foot can be best treated by 
using the pillow splint. 



"Fractures of Clavicle. In applying the classic Sayre adhesive 
plaster dressing, the following slight modifications have been found 
of advantage. The first consists of a pad of one thickness of Saddler's 
felt having a hole cut in it and applied over the olecranon. This 
prevents the cutting of the adhesive plaster which is so disagreeable. 

1 Major Kendall Emerson, British Jour, of Surgery, September 12, 1918. 



FEACTURES 



607 



The second modification consists of a strip of adhesive 1%" wide 
which surrounds the wrist and then passing over the affected clavicle, 
sticky side down, and is attached to the broad arm strap behind. 
A pad of felt over the affected clavicle helps to hold the fragments 
in position and avoids adhesive plaster pressure (Fig. 142). 

"Fractures of the Surgical Neck of the Humerus. This fracture 
is a fairly common one and has received considerable attention due 
to the difficulty of its retention. Jones describes its reduction and 
retention as follows: 

"Treatment. Traction on the arm in the axis of the humerus, 
gradually abducting and rotating outward till the arm is at right 




FIG. 142. Modification of Sayre dressing for fractured clavicle. Note pads at 
elbow and over clavicle and additional strap extending from wrist over clavicle. The 
elbow strap is not put on in this case in the classical way as enough raising of the shoulder 
can be obtained without carrying the strap across the back, and the dressing is more 
comfortable for the patient. Note raising of right shoulder in cut. 

angles to the body or even straight upward parallel to the side of the 
head, will disengage the lower fragment from the inner side of the upper 
fragment. In this position the line of traction of the pectoralis 
major, latissimus dorsi, and teres major is in the axis of the shaft, 
so these muscles no longer exert a lateral distorting force. 

" 'While an assistant is extending the limb in this way the surgeon 
with his hands feels when the bones have completely disengaged. He 
then asks the assistant to relax the tension on the limb, while he tries 
to guide the ends so that they engage end to end. 



608 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



'"If they do engage, they can often be gently pressed together and 
made to lock sufficiently to allow the arm to be brought down to the 
side slowly and gently, and with a pad in the axilla the arm is securely 
fixed to the body, with the elbow bent to an angle of forty-five degrees 
and the wrist slung from the neck. These movements should be 
performed with gentleness and judgment to avoid injury to nerves 
and vessels. 

"'Experience has shown that once this maneuver is successfully 
accomplished the ends are not likely to disengage, and all that is neces- 
sary is to wait for union and then gradually commence movement. 

"'If the shape of the line of fracture is such that the fragments 
will not lock properly and, therefore, disengage when the arm is brought 




FIG. 143. Thomas arm extension splint for severe fractures, usually compound, 
of the humerus. Note method of suspension and traction, the same as used in the 
Thomas leg splint. (Manual of Splints and Appliances for the Medical Department 
of the United States Army, 1917.) 

down to the side, the arm must be fixed in the abducted position. 
In this position the line of traction of the pectorals and latissimus is 
practically the axis of the limb, and, therefore, will only pull the two 
ends toward each other and not laterally, and usually the fragments 
will not slip. 

' 'The whole arm, shoulder and upper limb, is swathed in one layer 
of cotton-wool. It is best to roll up a whole length of cotton-wool 
and apply it like a bandage. Over this plaster bandage is applied 
to the arm and upper part of the chest, rubbing it firmly round the 
shoulder and axilla and again firmly round the bony points about the 
elbow. A proper grip of the condyles of the humerus prevents shorten- 
ing of the limb; to make sure of the external rotation the forearm should 



FRACTURES 



609 



be included; if the elbow is bent till the hand is behind the head, 
the position is not in any way uncomfortable, and the success of the 
functional result is assured. 

" 'Two lengths of strong webbing, like horse-girths or something not 
quite so wide, one round the axilla and fixed on the opposite side of the 
table, and the other over the top of the shoulder and fixed to the 
bottom of the table, give an excellent resistance against which to 
pull. A roller towel or folded sheet will do, but being more bulky 
is more apt to get in the way of the surgeon's hands when mani- 
pulating the shoulder.' 1 

"The aeroplane splint devised at the former American Ambulance, 
Neuilly, France, is extremely good in these cases, allowing motion 




FIG. 144. Suspension traction method of treating compound fracture of the 
humerus by means of the Balkan frame, h, Plate or hook; w, weights; a, arm suspen- 
sion band; b, glued traction band. (Manual of Splints and Appliances, Medical Depart- 
ment, U. 8. A.) 

of the forearm on the arm. It is, however, bulky and does not seem, 
necessary in the case of simple fractures. 

"If the fracture is very severe with much comminution there is no 
better form of treatment than that of suspension in a Balkan frame. 
Continuous traction in abduction can be maintained by means of a 
Thomas arm splint or by the Blake method of suspension (Figs. 143 
and 144). 

"The writer when visiting the large fracture center of the French 
Army at Chateau Thierry was told that all fractures of the humerus 
were treated by a simple triangle of wood which fitted snugly in the 

1 Jones, " Injuries to Joints, " Oxford War Primer, 1918. 
39 






610 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



axilla and to which a single forearm splint was fixed by a hinged 
piece of strap iron. Continuous extension was maintained by a bag 




FIG. 145. Wood triangle splint u?ed in French army hospitals. 

of sand suspended from the humerus or forearm when extension was 
necessary. The results with this simple apparatus were excellent (Fig. 
145). 




FIG. 146. Del bet arm extension apparatus. (Techniques des Operations et Pansements 
Plaies de Guerre, D T Dupuy de Frenelle, Aide-major-VI e armee.) 

"Among the more recent appliances is the Delbet apparatus for 
continuous extension. In this splint the force of extension is adjusted 



FRACTURES 



611 



by a movable pin as seen in cut. The method of application is well 
shown (Fig. 146). 

"An excellent splint for fractures of the humerus and one adopted by 
the United States Army is the Jones elbow extension splint. This 
splint may be used for continuous extension of either the humerus 
or forearm (Figs. 147 and 148). 

"There are two methods of applying traction to the humerus; first, 
by the Hennequin band, second, by glued traction bands. The Hen- 




FIG. 147. 



FIG. 148. 



FIGS. 147 and 148. Jones arm extension splint. Method of application. (Injuries 
to Joints, Second Edition, Oxford War Primers.) 

nequin band is a band made of Canton flannel, fcur inches wide and 
eighteen inches long. It is applied .over several thicknesses of non- 
absorbent cotton wound snugly about the lower part of the arm just 
above the elbow. Over this pad the band is applied from behind 
forward, crossed in front and pinned at the sides so that there is a 
direct pull along the arm. 

"The glued traction bands are also made of flannel of shape similar 
to cut (Fig. 149). 



612 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



"The glue with which these bands are applied is made as follows: 
"Resin and Turpentine Glue: 1 

Resin 50 

Alcohol 50 

Benzine (pure) 25 

Venice turpentine 5 



"Powder the resin, 



for fa oh 
/fir cir/n 
foo/ft same. to&/fem 




then add half the alcohol, then the Venice 
turpentine and benzine, washing the measure 
into the bottle with the remaining alcohol. 
This glue may be removed with alcohol or 
ether. The bottle containing the glue should 
be kept tightly stoppered else the proportions 
of the constituents may change, and the glue 
become irritating to the skin. This glue does 
not require heating before use, and should 
not be applied too thickly. 

"Moderate traction may be safely insti- 
tuted with this form of glue in from 5 to 10 
minutes after application, and as much trac- 
tion as is required in 20 minutes. 

"Fractures About the Elbow -joint. Jones 
makes the following statement which should 
always be remembered: 

" 'There is one golden rule regarding frac- 
tures of the elbow : they should all be treated 
with the elbow fully flexed and the forearm 
supinated, with the single exception of fracture 
of the olecranon, which requires full extension.' 

VThe method of putting up an elbow in 
acute flexion is shown in Fig. 150. 

"After a few days, four or five, it is safe to 
relax the acuteness of the flexion and sling the 
wrist of the affected arm close under the 
chin. The sling may be lengthened from day 
to day, and the patient urged to try active 
motion. War surgery has developed the 
fact that in injury to the joints active mo- 
tion should be started at the earliest 

possible date, but this motion should be done at first under the careful 
supervision of the surgeon and if any stiffness or severe swelling 
appears as a result, acute flexion should be resumed for a few days. 

1 Formula from Manual of Splints and Appliances, Medical Department, 
U. S. Army. 



FIG. 149. Flannel band 
for traction. To be applied 
to skin with special glue 
painted on with paint 
brush. 



FRACTURES 



613 



"Fractures of Forearm. Fracture of both bones of the forearm 
are notoriously difficult to reduce and hold in position. There appears 
to be nothing especially new in the treatment developed by war except 
in the case of compound fractures of the forearm. 

"A double board splint with immobilization of the elbow by a tin 
right angle splint, as described by Scudder, or the moulded anterio- 
posterior plaster splints, described by Moorhead, are probably the 
best methods of holding after reduction by traction and manipulation. 




FIG. 150. Elbow put up in acute flexion. Forearm supinated and elbow in 
flexion. Note heavy padding on arm and forearm, as well as protective padding in 
inner side of arm and forearm where this comes in contact with chest. 

"The French use forms of crinoline to make their molded splints. 
These forms consist of ten thicknesses of crinoline basted together. 
The forms are immersed in plaster bouillon immediately before using 
with vaselin. The method of making the plaster bouillon is given 
under the treatment of fracture of the thigh and with description of 
the Delbet plaster forms. 

"This method of application of plaster is rapid, accurate and the 
form can be cut to suit the case and surgeon. After application it is 
held in place by a gauze bandage until the plaster sets. 



614 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 






"So much has been written on the reduction and retention of Colles' 
fracture that it seems unnecessary to repeat what is already known. 

"There are two points which are worth bearing in mind. First, 
complete reduction has not been obtained until the styloid process of 
the radius is well below the styloid process of the ulna. Second, the 
tearing of the internal lateral ligament of the wrist is frequently more 
troublesome than the fracture of the radius. 




FIG. 151. 

"After reduction both anterior and posterior splints should be kept 
in place, except during massage, for three weeks, and the anterior 
splint for one week longer (Figs. 151 and 152). 

"Fractures of the carpal bones are very troublesome and give rise 
to considerable disability in the wrist. It is almost impossible to ap- 
pose the fragments and in order to get a useful wrist the open opera- 
tion is often necessary. This is 'particularly true in fracture of the 
scaphoid. 




FIG. 152. 

FIGS. 151 and 152. Jones cock-up wrist splint. For use in injuries where dorsal flexion 
of the wrist is advisable. (Injuries to Joints, Second Edition, Oxford War Primers.) 

"Fractures of the metacarpals are fairly common. Reduction is 
difficult but should always be attempted. It is more likely to succeed 
if a general anesthetic is given and the position of the fragments 
checked up with a fluoroscope during reduction. The reduction 
can usually be well held if the hand is strapped over a roller bandage, 
the principle being the same as that of acute flexion in the elbow. Ex- 
tension by means of traction on the finger of the injured metacarpal 
is rarely successful and is difficult to manage. 

"In industrial surgery fractures of the fingers and thumb are most 



FRACTURES 



615 



important and much of the worker's skill may be lost by a poor result. 
The greatest care should be used in setting these fractures and after 
reduction the result should be checked up by an x-ray picture. The 
wooden tongue depressor splint is clumsy and inefficient except as a 
first aid dressing. 

"The best method of retention is probably the Marsee block tin 



FIG. 153. Marsee's tin finger splint. 

finger splint made as follows : A strip of tin is cut 14 in. long and 
in. wide. This is to be folded upon itself lengthwise and hammered 
flat so as to make a three-ply strip % in. in width. Upon one end of 
the strip, a piece of thin leather or canvas 4 or 5 in. long and 3 in. wide 
is to be riveted in order to give the strip stability when bandaged to 




FIG. 154. Method of application of Marsee's finger splint before bandage is applied. 
Note natural curve of finger. 

the forearm. The strip is then shaped to suit the curved outline, in 
which position the fingers should be immobilized (Figs. 153 and 154). * 
"By means of this splint anterior bowing can be overcome and sad- 
dle-shaped deformity controlled. For fractures with little displace- 
ment there is nothing better than a strong hair pin which when wound 
'Sluss, "Emergency Surgery," Third Edition. 



616 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



with adhesive plaster makes a light and easily adaptable splint. An- 
terior and posterior hair pin splints hold the fracture well with a mini- 
mum of bulk and weight. 

"For crushes of the terminal phalanx no splint is required but great 
comfort is obtained if the Manning tin cross piece is applied over the 
dressing. These have been used in many factory dispensaries with 
universal success and no industrial surgeon should be without at least 
a dozen always on hand. 

FRACTURES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY 

"Fractures of Femur. Fractures of the neck of the femur are di- 
vided into impacted and non-impacted fractures. If there is firm im- 
paction with little shortening, little need be done beyond sand bags 
to steady the leg and light traction by weight and pulley, or better sus- 
pension in a Balkan frame. A description of this method of handling 
fractures of the femur will follow. 

"Whitman believes in breaking up the impaction under anesthesia 
and setting the leg in wide abduction with some internal rotation 
holding the position with a plaster cast extending from the toes to the 
axilla. "The limb is reduced by extension and gradual abduction to 
an angle of forty-five degrees, in the meantime supporting the upper 
end of the femur and rotating the leg inward. 

"In this position, the limb is well covered with cotton batting, all the 
bony points especially well protected and a flannel bandage smoothly 
applied. A plaster spica is now applied extending from the lower 
ribs to and including the foot. The plaster fits the pelvis snugly and 
is molded close to the trochanter and posterior aspect of the joint. 
It is also molded to the patella and condyles, and to the foot to pre- 
vent rotation. This dressing permits the patient to rise up in bed 
without much discomfort. 

"The advantage of abduction is that it makes the capsule tense and 
thus aligns the displaced fragments, that it directs the surface of the 
outer fragment toward that of the inner; that it relaxes the muscles 
that produce distortion by their traction; that it opposes the trochan- 
ter to the side of the pelvis and thus checks upward displacement. 
Repair in these fractures is slow and can hardly be completed with- 
in a year; thus prolonged after-treatment is necessary for restoration 
of function. 1 

"In cases of non-impaction three methods are open to the surgeon: 
first, the Whitman method as outlined above; second, suspension and 
traction in a Balkan frame and Thomas splint; third, open reduction 
and nailing the fragments in alinement. Jones has developed a frame 
which holds the femur in abduction, allows traction and affords an 

1 Jour. Am. Med. Assoc., February 20, 1909 (Sluss). 



FRACTURES 



617 



easy means of transport. It is of particular value in the case of 
compound fractures (Fig. 155). 

"In war hospitals all thigh and many leg fractures are being treated 
by means of the Balkan frame, suspension and traction. This method, 
now almost unknown in civil surgery, will probably be largely used 
after the war. The Balkan frame consists of a head frame and a foot 
frame of wood united by longitudinal bars. The wood is white pine, % 
by 2 inches. The head and foot frames consist of two uprights slightly 
slanted to form .a truncated A. The cross bars which hold these 




FIG. 155. Jones abduction frame for high fractures of the femur. (Injuries to Joints, 
Second Edition, Oxford War Primers.) 

uprights together are the width of the bed, at top extending beyond 
uprights on either side, while the lower joins the uprights at the level 
of the mattress. 

"The longitudinal bars are two in number, resting on the upper 
cross bars and retained in any desired position by reciprocal notches 
(mortise joint). 

"The exact measurements are as follows: height of side bars, head 
and foot frame, 6 ft. 6 in. ; length of upper notched transverse bar, 
3 ft. 3 in. ; length of lower transverse bar, width of bed at top of mattress; 
length of longitudinal frame connecting bars, 8 ft. 8 in. 

"The head and foot frames are set up and attached to the bed 
with rope; they are then joined by the two longitudinal bars which 
lock by their reciprocal notches in the upper cross piece of the head 



618 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



and foot frames, making the whole frame firm and rigid. One of 
these bars can be brought out at an angle so as to produce abduction 
and additional cross bars of varying width can be added to the foot 
frame for the support of pulleys. The Thomas or Hodgen splint 
(Fig. 156) is suspended from three pulleys set in a block of wood 16 
inches long which in turn is supported by the longitudinal bar. The 
set-up frame and arrangement of pulleys is well shown in the accom- 
panying cuts from the Red Cross Splint Manual of the United States 
Army. 

"The method of application is as follows: The frame having been 
set up with all bars arranged for the proper amount of abduction and 
the pulleys having been placed, the Hodgen or Thomas splint is pre- 




FIG. 156. Balkan frame. Suspension method of treatment of fractured femur. 
Note method of obtaining abduction by additional bars on frame; to compare with 
figure of Hodgen splint. (Manual of Splints and Appliances for the Medical Department 
of the United States Army, 1917.) 

pared as shown in the photograph. The splint is then attached by 
cords to the three-pulley block. Glued bands are now applied to the 
leg which has been previously shaved and washed with alcohol and 
ether. The glued bands extend a little above the site of the fracture as 
their pull is exerted through the skin and fascia lata before reaching 
the muscles and bone (Figs. 157 and 158). 

"The splint is now dropped over the leg and the slings brought 
under the thigh and leg and fixed to the outer bar of the splint with 
paper clips, usually more slings are used than are shown in the cut. 



FRACTURES 



619 



The whole leg is then gently raised and the suspension weight adjusted. 
This should exactly equal the weight of the leg and splint. Sand or 
buck shot may be used in the weight bag. A second cord with about 
four pounds of weight passes from the upper end of the splint over a 




FIG. 157. Hodgen splint. 

pulley set at the opposite side of the head of the bed. This acts as a 
countertractor. 

"The extension bands are now attached to a spreader and the proper 
amount of weight attached to the rope after it has passed through the 




FIG. 158. Method of suspension with Hodgen splint in Balkan frame, a, SHngs 
which hold in splint, held in place by paper clips; b, foot piece of flannel glued to foot; 
, hand grips so that the patient may help raise and lower himself in bed; W, weight; 
H, pulley hooks. (Manual of Splints and Appliances for the Medical Department of the 
United States Army, 1917.) 

pulley. Last of all a flannel band is cut the shape of the sole of the foot 
and glued in place. The tape is tied to a piece of cord which is carried 
over the middle block pulley and to which a one-pound weight is 



620 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



attached. This allows free movement of the ankle, exercise of the 
muscles of the leg and prevents foot drop (Fig. 159). 

"The advantage of the suspension method of treating fractures is 
as follows: 

"1. There is no pain. 

"2. There is no edema. 

"3. There is no motion of all the joints without displacement 

of the alignment of the fragments. 
"4. The patient can move around in bed. 
"5. The leg may be easily examined and massaged. 

"It will be noted that this method of treatment completely upsets 
the time honored belief that a fracture must always be treated by a 




FIG. 159. Application of Thomas splint for suspension and traction. (Manual of 
Splints and Appliances for the Medical Department of the United States Army, 1917.) 

splint which immobilizes the joints above and below the site of injury. 
Where considerable traction is needed, two sets of glued bands can 
be used, one attached to the thigh as described above, a second pair 
attached to the leg. To each of these traction weights are applied. 
When the traction is so great that it tends to pull the patient down in 
the bed, the foot of the bed may be elevated on blocks. 

"When much traction is needed, the Steinman pin, 'ice tongs/ 
or the Finechette stirrup may be used. In the case of the pin much 
less traction weight is needed than when the glued bands are used. 
Blake recommends the use of the Steinman pin in all cases of fracture 
just above the knee joint. 



FRACTURES 



621 



"In a resume such as this it is impossible to go into the necessary 
details. For a full and detailed account the reader is referred to the 
excellent paper by Blake in La Presse Medicale, November 19, 1917. 

"Fractures of the middle of the femur can be treated in two ways: 
first, by the suspension and traction method just described; second, 
by plaster cast extending from the toes to the chest. If a plaster cast 
is used, proper reduction can best be secured by the use of the Hawley 
table or similar apparatus for producing mechanical traction. Where 
the Hawley table is not available, and it is considered advisable to 
use plaster, the following method may be used. This is the method 




FIG. 160. Type of fracture bed used in Colorado Fuel & Iron Co. Hospital. 

of Dr. Corwin.) 



(Clinic 



which is now in use in a great many hospitals in France where expense 
prevents their having up-to-date tables and apparatus. 

"The patient is supported on an ordinary table by a box under the 
shoulders and chest, while the pelvis is supported by a tin can or a 
couple of bricks under the sacrum. The affected leg is extended by 
means of a clove-hitch of wide bandage which is applied over several 
layers of cotton wound around the ankle. The ends of the muslin 
bandage used in making the clove-hitch are carried over a tin can or 
bottle, and then over the end of the table. To the bandage ends a 
bucket is attached which can be filled with water or sand to produce 
traction. Countertraction is obtained by a loop of pillow case or 



622 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

sheet which passes under the crotch and is attached to a rope or to the 
leg of the table near the patient's head. This method is well described 
by Calot in his recent 'Orthopedic et Chirurgie de Guerre/ third 
edition. Calot describes the application of a plaster case for fracture 
of the femur about as follows. I have not used his words but have 
abbreviated to make the matter more condensed. 

"Two types of plaster appliances are used. First, five plaster band- 
ages 3 or 4 inches wide, and second, four atteles, oblong strips of 
crinoline, five thicknesses each, two cut long enough to extend from the 
toes to the hip, both in front and behind, and wide enough to slightly 
overlap when wrapped around the leg, one wide enough to extend from 
pubis to sternum and long enough to surround the abdomen, and a 
fourth about four inches in width and long enough to encircle the hip 
obliquely. The method of application is as follows : After the patient 
has been placed in the proper position and traction applied, the leg 
and abdomen are completely enveloped in one thickness of sheet 
wadding, stockingette or ordinary drawers, extending from the toes to 
the ribs. Two bandages are then dropped in cold water in a large 
basin holding three quarts without salt. About three minutes later 
three other bandages are dropped into this water. As soon as possible 
the first bandages are wrung out and handed to the surgeon who applies 
them from the toes to the hip in the usual manner. While this is being 
done, another basin of plaster bouillon is being prepared by an assistant. 
This plaster bouillon which is used very widely by the French in the 
use of their plaster forms of various types is made as follows : 

"Three glasses of water are poured into a basin to which is added 
rapidly five glasses of plaster, the plaster being shaken in little by 
little rapidly while the left hand of the operator agitates the water to 
obtain an homogeneous bouillon. This should be obtained in about 
one minute. 

"The atteles of crinoline are then plunged into the bouillon and 
worked through it rapidly absorbing the mixture. These are then 
applied to the anterior and posterior of the leg extending from the toes 
to the groin. Immediately following this application, another attele 
is applied around the pelvis and abdomen. This attele has been cut 
wide enough to extend from the pelvis to the base of the chest and 
forms a broad belt around the abdomen and pelvis. The ends overlap 
in the region of the groin. The fourth attele is next prepared and is 
applied over this. This attele consists of a band about 4 inches wide, 
five thicknesses of crinoline, which is long enough to completely en- 
circle the hip and extends up over the groin. The exact method of 
the arrangement of these atteles appears in the accompanying cut. 
Immediately after having applied these atteles, the three remaining 
plaster bandages are applied from the toes well up to* the base of the 
chest, completing the cast. It is well after putting on the atteles to 



FRACTURES 



623 



cover them with a thick layer of plaster bouillon taken from one of the 
basins in which the atteles have been prepared, and after the last 
plaster bandage is applied, the whole cast may be gone over with this 
same material. The application of such a cast requires assistants in 
order to achieve it quickly. Calot states that the entire application 
can be done in five to six minutes, or eight at the most. He advocates 
practice in team work between the nurses and the doctor. Immedi- 
ately after the cast has been applied, it should be carefully moulded in 
the region of the knee, ankle and the crest of the ilium. This point 
is most important and has been brought out not only by Calot but by 
Whitman. Great care should be taken that the foot is at right angles 
to the leg and slightly inverted. Such a cast can be readily split if it 




FIG. 161. Application of cast as described by Calot and used in the French war 

hospitals. 

appears to be too tight. If it is probable that such splitting will be 
necessary, a long piece of tin can be incorporated beneath the sheet 
wadding so that the knife will have a firm base to cut upon, and there 
is no danger of injuring the patient (Fig. 161). 

"Fractures of the Leg. Fractures of both bones of the leg can be 
treated either by suspension and traction, or by plaster cast. The 
cast in this case does not have to be as heavy as that described for the 
thigh fractures, but should extend from the toes well above the knee. 
Particular care should be taken that there is no anteriorposterior 
bowing. After a fracture has become consolidated, if the callous is 
still soft, the French are accustomed to apply a Delbet plaster appareil 
de marche. The French also use this method of treatment for simple 
fractures of the fibula and for Pott's fracture after reduction. The 

I 



624 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



patient is able to hobble around on this splint, and it apparently causes 
no bending or weakening of the callous. It will be seen that the 
weight of the leg is borne largely on the lateral and longitudinal atteles, 
and that the bone is still further protected by the bands around the 
ankle and below the knee which prevent strain upon the callous by 
transmitting the weight to these same lateral atteles. The atteles are 



DELBET FORMS 

(CRINOLINE ) 

SuppHm.nfJ Jodcscnptioafurnian.d [y Dr W Irv.ng cUrk fo 
tn Confrenc Board of Pnysicie-ns in InJusiri&l Prftcfice al its mcefing Ju 



l6 thicknc59& 



22 tdickn 



me 29, 19)8 
1 

2 



22 {K 



16 tKickncsaes. 




Fold back- 

iubaroaity of li'bl. 



Grips cxcnor and inwrior 

mallaoli. 



FIG. 162. Diagrammatic description of Delbet forms. (Dr. W. Irving Clark.) 

made of crinoline, as indicated in the cut, and are prepared by being 
rolled through plaster bouillon (Fig. 162). 

"This plaster bouillon, which as I said before is greatly used by 
the French, is usually made as follows: 

"The basin is filled with about a quart of cold water. To this is 
added plaster little by little, the plaster being shaken in while the 



FRACTURES 625 

water is being gently agitated by the left hand of the surgeon. When 
the withdrawn hand appears as if it was covered with a thick white 
cotton glove, the proper consistency has been reached. 

"The trick of preparing a proper bouillon is one which requires 
a little practice, but when it has been acquired the surgeon will find 
his ability to handle certain types of fractures greatly increased. 

"Simple fractures in the region of the ankle, such as Pott's fracture, 
can probably be best treated by reduction in a classical manner, and a 
plaster cast, the foot being held in exaggerated inversion. After 
about a week, Delbet's appareil may be tried if the swelling is not too 
severe. 

"The French frequently apply the Delbet even on complete fracture 
of both bones, making traction by means of a weight over a tin can, as 
described before. When reduction has been obtained the Delbet 
forms are applied and held in place by a Scultetus, many-tailed bandage 
which remains on for twenty-four hours. The traction is of course 
removed as soon as the plaster has set. The patient should be able 
to .walk with the Delbet and a cane the day following the application 
of the splint. An important point which is sometimes neglected in the 
after treatment of cases of Pott's fracture is the necessity of keeping 
the foot in inversion, and supporting the arch with a pad, or flat-foot 
plate. Every case of Pott's fracture, or of fracture of the ankle, 
excepting the phalanges, should be supported by a firm foot pad and 
adhesive plaster strapping when the patient is up and around. 

"Compound Fractures. The treatment of compound fractures 
is exactly the same as that of simple fractures with the exception 
of the treatment of the wound. The treatment of the wound consists 
of the primary treatment and the secondary, or operative treatment. 
The primary treatment which occurs immediately after the injury 
should consist of painting the wound rapidly with tincture of iodin, 
and applying a sterile dressing consisting of many folds of gauze in 
the form of a thick pad, held in place by a bandage. The operative 
treatment is the same as is now used in the war hospitals of France. 
This consists of a careful dissection of all of the injured tissues, a knife 
being used to cut out the skin in a fine elliptical incision. Where there 
is some question as to whether the tissue is viable or not, no chances 
should be taken, but the tissue unless of great value should be removed. 
In short, the entire wound tract should be treated as if it were a new 
growth, and removed enbloc if possible. 

"The following quotation from Major Poole is an exact description 
of the methods now being employed in the treatment of compound 
fractures, caused by accidents, at La Panne, and should act as a guide 
in the treatment of compound fractures in industrial work: 

" 'These are operated upon as routine at La Panne and when it is 

40 



626 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



possible the following procedure is followed : The edges of the wound 
are excised, contaminated or lacerated tissues are carefully excised, 
the fracture is exposed and as far as possible the fragments are reduced. 
Foreign bodies such as plates, screws and wires are not employed except 
in rare cases for the reason already given under "Treatment of Com- 
pound Fractures caused by Projectiles." The wound is closed by 
layers without drainage.' 1 

"It is evident that the chance of infection is less in industrial work, 
and wherever possible the tissue should be saved and not sacrificed. 
With the facilities for prompt treatment, it would seem possible 
to convert the majority of compound fractures into simple fractures by 




I 



FIG. 163. Treatment of an infected compound fracture by Carrel-Dakin irrigation 
method. Inserting the tubes. (Dr. Corwin.) 

primary suture. Any loose bone which is apparently free of 
periosteum should be removed but care should be taken to leave in 
place all bits of bone to which the periosteum is adherent. In cases 
where there is -much contamination, especially where this extends 
to the bone, it is better to follow the tactics of war surgery and not 
attempt primary suture. It should be noted here that owing to the 
dangers of special infection and lack of immediate treatment, the 
French do not dare to practice primary suture in compound fractures, 
except in very special cases. After the wound has been treated, the 
fracture should be treated by one of the methods outlined in the treat- 
ment of simple fractures. However, the use of plaster is contra- 

1 Poole, Surg. Gyn. and Obs., Sept., 1918. 



FRACTURES 



627 



indicated where one expects to have to deal with a suppurating wound, 
and if this condition is considered probable, the suspension method 
of treatment should be adopted. 

"Infection in a compound fracture is a common occurrence in 
France, and the usual method of combating it is by the use of the 
Carrel-Dakin method. This has been so fully described that the 
technic will not be entered into here. It may be of interest to note 
that by the Carrel method other solutions than Dakin's are used. 
Those which have proved most successful in the American Red Cross 
Military Hospital No. 2 are appended. For further information 
as to the method of suspension treatment of compound fractures, 




FIG. 164. Compound fracture of leg due to industrial injury treated by Carrel-Dakin 

method. (Dr. Corwin.) 

the reader is referred to Major Blake's paper in La Presse Medicale, 
November 19, 1917." 

Dressing Solution Formulas. American Red Cross Military Hospital No 2, 
Paris. 

Dressing solution for fresh wounds: 

1. Quinin hydrochlorid 

Acetic acid (90%) 5 

NaCl 8 

H 2 1000 

2. Acetic acid 

NaCl 8 

H,0.. 1000 



628 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



Dressing solutions for granulating wounds : 

3. B. Naphthol 

Sod. hydrox 

H 2 O 

4. Daufresne's modification of Dakin's solution. 

5. Sodium bicarb 

NaCl 

H a O. . 



1 

1 

1000 

10 

8 

1000 



CHAPTER XXXVIII 
OPEN TREATMENT OF FRACTURES 

The growing tendency among surgeons to operate upon many cases 
of fracture which hitherto gave good functional results by the closed 
method of treatment makes it seem timely to illustrate many of the 
bad results which occur by open treatment. The various figures rep- 
resent cases collected in one of our best hospitals and the operations 
were performed by surgeons with the best of reputations. 

Cases of recent fractures and many cases of old fractures, bony 
defects, bone cysts, etc., do arise, however, in which open operative 
treatment is surely indicated. The purpose of this chapter, there- 
fore, is not to condemn such operations but rather to stimulate a more 
conservative attitude toward selecting the types of fractures so treated 
and the methods employed. 

The bone graft has become a fixture in surgery. A great amount 
of experimental work on animals has been reported and has made pos- 
sible the advances in this branch of surgery. However, it is only by 
the reporting of many and various results on humans by the rank and 
file of surgeons that the indications and technic of this operation will 
become fully established, and, above all, that the autogenous bone graft 
will become recognized as the safest and surest method of repairing cer- 
tain bony defects far superior, in most cases, to any foreign material 
which can be used, such as Lane's plates, silver wire, nails, ivory pegs, 
magnesium plates or tubes, aluminum plates, and even the hetero- 
geneous bone plates, screws and bone chips. 

Many discussions and controversies have arisen during the last 
few years in this field of surgery, a history of which would make an 
interesting paper in itself. Three questions especially have formed 
the nucleus of this discussion, namely: 

1. The comparative value of bone grafts and Lane's plates, and 
other foreign materials in the open repair of fractures, and in the re- 
pair of certain bony defects. 

2. The indications for the open treatment of fractures. 

3. Does the bone graft have osteogenetic power, and if so, does 
the periosteum alone possess this power, or does the graft simply form 
a bridge between the ends of the bone to be repaired, over which re- 
generation by conduction occurs? 

629 



630 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



Lane plates, ox-bone p ] ates, silver wire and many other foreign 
materials have been chiefly used in the past, and even by many of our 
best surgeons to-day, for the open treatment of fractures. Good re- 
sults have obtained in many cases, but, unfortunately, many others 





FIG. 165. FIG. 166. 

Fio. 165. Lane plate applied to recent fracture. 
FIG. 166. Three weeks later- plate loosening due to liquefaction. 

have been very discouraging. These bad results can be summarized 
as follows: 

1. Delayed union: The presence of the foreign body causing a 
deficient callous formation and may even cause some liquefaction and 
absorption of the healthy bone to which the plate is attached. 




FIG. 167. FIG. 168. 

FIG. 167.^Ends of fragments absorbed allowing plate to become detached with dis- 
placement of lower fragment. 

FIG. 168. Sclerosis of ends of fragments prevented union. 

2. The wound is more prone to infection because of the foreign 
body. When infection does occur, the above mentioned necrosis of 
the healthy bone is the rule. 

3. Non-union may occur: 

(a) Due to liquefaction, the plate may loosen and not hold the 
fragments in firm apposition (Figs. 165 and 166). 



OPEN TREATMENT OF FRACTURES 631 

(6) Due to infection or the presence of foreign body, the ends 
of the fragments may- absorb and not have coaptation (Fig. 
167). 

(c) In old un-united fractures, the ends of the fragments of 
bone may have undergone sclerosis. It is the rule to fresh- 
en these ends, but the sclerotic process may extend far- 
ther than the surgeon expects. Thus a plate attached to 
these fragments will give fixation, but no union occurs (Fig. 
168). 
4. Subsequent operations are often necessary: 

(a) For the purpose of replacing a loosened screw or readjust- 
ing a plate which has slipped. 
(6) For the removal, later on, of the foreign material because 

it has become a source of irritation. 

(c) To resort to some other plan of operation, because of non- 
union. 

As a substitute for this foreign material method, which has all of 
the above dire results to its credit, we have the autogenous bone graft, 
which, in the hands of most operators accustomed to its use, has 
given practically 100 per cent, good results in the repair of fractures 
and other bony defects. From both a practical and a scientific stand- 
point, living bone grafts are more logical, chiefly for these reasons: 

1. There is no foreign body present which later may have to be 
removed or may cause some of the above described complications. 

2. Infection does not destroy the graft, as was at first supposed; 
in fact, I have seen the growth of a graft apparently stimulated in the 
presence of infection. 

3. Union is more rapid than where ox-bone plates or Lane plates, 
or other foreign material has been used. 

4. Non-union in the old un-united fractures, because of sclerosis 
of the ends of the fragments, need never occur, especially if Albee's 
inlay method of bone grafting is used, as the transplant always extends 
a sufficient distance above and below the ends of the fragments to 
reach into healthy bone. For this reason, the intramedullary graft 
is not always adaptable to these cases, as the sclerotic process may 
extend a considerable distance into the medullary canal. 

5. A living bone graft will conform itself to the shape and func- 
tion of the bone into which it is grafted (Wolff's law). 

The next question, "The indications for the open treatment of 
fractures," likewise forms the nucleus for a very lengthy discussion. 

McAusland, in Surg. Gyn. and Obs., September, 1914, advo- 
cates the open method on most fractures, in order to secure perfect 
alignment and coaptation. He thinks there is less danger to the soft 
parts by this procedure than by so much manipulation. 



632 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

In opposition to this doctrine, B. S. Campiche, 1 writes a plea 
against unnecessary operations for fractures which is very timely. 

So many articles have appeared in the last few years, and so 
many clinical cases have been demonstrated on the open treatment 
of fractures, that the student and the profession at large are almost 
led to believe that with some of the very best surgeons this is really 
the treatment of choice for the majority of fractures. We know, 
however, that during the last century the treatment of fractures by 
the closed method has been satisfactory in most cases. Especially 
in the last decade this conservative treatment has been so vastly 
improved, due to the aid of the x-ray, that bad results are compara- 
tively few. 

In every case of recent fracture, therefore, conservative non- 
operative treatment should be tried thoroughly and conscientiously, 
and the operative treatment reserved for those few cases not over 
3 per cent, where the closed method has failed. 

The only indications for open treatment in recent fractures are : 

1. Interposed soft tissues which prevent coaptation of the 
fractured ends. 

2. Two or more fractures of a long bone, where it is impossible to 
secure coaptation and fixation of each fragment. 

3. Certain fractures of both bones of forearms or leg, where, by 
every known manipulation, it is impossible to secure coaptation 
and fixation of both fractures at the same time. 

4. Certain fractures into joints, where loose fragments will interfere 
with the function of the joint. 

5. A few atypical fractures, where muscular action has displaced 
a fragment to such an extent that coaptation and resulting function 
can only be secured by operation. 

In recent fractures, the application of internal splints is not always 
necessary as the ends may be held in apposition by chromic gut, 
or kangaroo gut, or even by external splints after coaptation has once 
been established. However, in many recent fractures, where opera- 
tion is necessary, a bone graft of the inlay type, made from the longer 
fragment, will give the surest fixation and the quickest results. 

In old fractures, the chief indications for open treatment are : 

1. Non-union. 

2. Faulty union with very marked deformity or loss of function. 

3. To restore or supplant dislodged or destroyed fragments. 

It is in these last conditions that the bone graft is of the greatest 
value and far superior to any foreign material. 

The third question regarding bone grafts concerns the viability or 
non-viability of the graft. Murphy, Barth, et al., claim that the graft 
1 Jour. Am. Med. Assoc., Vol. Ixiv, No. 20. 



OPEN TREATMENT OF FRACTURES 



633 



is not osteogenetic. They contend that osteoblasts form from either 
end of the sectioned bone and circulate through the Haversian canals 
of the transplant, and that as they multiply, they cause absorption 
of the bone cells of the transplant, the latter acting only as a scaffold 
or osteoconductor a process of substitution. 

Axhausen and others claim that the inner layer of the periosteum 
is the only portion of the transplant that has osteogenetic powers, 
and that the bone in the graft dies. MacEwen, of Glasgow, states 
that the periosteum has no such power, but is simply a limiting mem- 
brane for the osteoblasts, regenerating from the osteoblasts of the graft 
itself, and that this membrane prevents the spread of these osteo- 
blasts into the surrounding tissue. 

Many of our more recent investigators, Albee, Johnson, Phemister 
Lewis, et al., claim that the graft has osteogenetic powers in all three of 
its layers periosteum, cortex and endosteum but more pronounced 
in the periosteum and endosteum, and especially more marked at 
either end of the graft, because here the new blood supply to the graft 
is the richest. In fact, the osteogenetic power of any of these layers 
depends absolutely on the blood supply. A portion of the graft near 
the center, and especially in the denser cortex, becomes necrotic 
and absorbs and is replaced by the osteoblasts from the living portion 
of the transplant the process of "Creeping Substitution" of the old 
bone by the new. 

From studying the x-ray findings in a large number of cases I feel 
that we have conclusive proof of: 

1. The osteogenetic ability of the periosteum. 

2. The osteogenetic powers of all three layers of the graft. 

3. The death of a certain portion of the graft and the substitution 
of osteoblasts from other portions. 

4. And that the transplant is not simply a scaffold. 
Autogenous bone grafts have become of paramount value also 

in repairing many bony defects, such as those resulting from complete 
loss of bone due to : 

1 . Destructive infections, septic, tuberculosis, lues, etc. 

2. Defects of development. 

3. Benign tumors, as bone cysts, myeloma, etc. 

4. Encapsulated malignant tumors, as giant-cell sarcoma and 
chondrosarcoma . 

These conditions are extremely important in industrial surgery as 
fractures from very slight injuries sometimes occur due to the presence 
of these pathologic conditions. I have had two cases of fracture 
and one case of alleged injury to the finger in which the accident 
was really coincidental, the real cause being the presence of a bone 
cyst in each case. 



634 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



Bone cysts are the small, single or multiple cysts found in the body 
of the bone and usually destroy most of the cortex, the periosteum 
often serving as the cyst wall. They are the end-result of a low-grade 




FIG. 169. Multiple bone cysts, osteitis fibrosa, of hands discovered in an ap- 
plicant for work. Under present compensation laws the employer could be held 
responsible for subsequent fractures. 

inflammatory affection of the bone and medullary tissues, known as 
osteitis fibrosa. 





FIG. 170. , FIG. 171. 

FIG. 170. Bone cyst in little finger. This girl employee claimed her work was 
responsible for the condition. 

FIG. 171. Same as Fig. 170. Three days after bone from tibia was transplanted. 
Cortex only was transplanted. Fragments of periosteum from wall of cyst were left 
intact and growth first took place in these and in ends of transplant. 

Osteitis fibrosa causes a destruction of the bone, and this is 
gradually replaced by granulation tissue, which, in time is converted 
into connective tissue, with or without the formation of these bone 



OPEN TREATMENT OF FRACTURES 



635 



cysts. Any of the long bones may be affected by this condition, 
especially the upper end of the humerus; also, the small bones of the 
foot and hand are often involved. The bone, if a cyst is present, 
increases in size very slowly, as compared to a bone affected by 





FIG. 172. FIG. 173. 

FIG. 172. Same as Fig. 170, eight months after operation. Note that transplant 
now has the normal contour of metacarpal bone. ( Wolff's Law.) 

FIG. 173. A bone cyst of upper end of humerus. A fracture followed a slight 
collision between trucks. 

malignant disease, and often a fracture through the cyst is the first 
evidence of the disease. 

In small cysts, where the cortex of the bone is not completely 
destroyed, simply opening and thoroughly curetting will often cure 



r 





FIG. 174. FIG. 175. 

FIG. 174. Same as Fig. 173, three weeks after bone transplant; arm at right 
angles held by plaster cast. ^T-ray shows growth taking place from periosteum, chips 
of bone inserted about transplant and in the ends of the transplant. 

FIG. 175. Same as Fig. 173, six months after operation. Note how transplant 
has assumed the natural contour of the humerus. 

the condition, but in multiple cysts, where the shaft of the bone is 
completely destroyed for a distance, the periosteum should be stripped 
off and the entire cyst excised; then the resulting bony defect should be 



636 



. INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



repaired by the insertion of a bone graft taken, preferably, from the 
patient's own body. 

In repairing fractures or these bony defects by the autogenous 
graft, the technic of the operation is practically the same. I will pass 
over the actual steps of these operations, but here are a few facts 
which should be emphasized: 

1. The bone work is best done with a motor and the various shaped 
saws, as outlined by Albee, Hogrin, et al., especially the twin saws for 
inlay work; a chisel and mallet may be used, however. 

2. The greatest asepsis must be observed. Some advocate the 
extreme methods of never touching the graft except with instruments. 




r 



D 



J L 



FIG. 176. 

FIG. 176. Same as Fig. 173. 
normal motion in shoulder joint. 

FIG. 177. Large bone cyst of humerus. 



FIG. 177. 
Eight months after operation patient had practically 



(Clinic of Dr. A. I. Halslead.) 



The graft should not be placed in normal salt solution, as this washes 
away the blood on the graft which nourishes its cells. 

3. The smaller the graft, the better its growth. When necessary 
to use a large graft, save every small fragment of bone and pack about 
the graft, as these become centers of osteogenesis. 

4. Transplant all three layers and coapt periosteum to periosteum, 
cortex to cortex, and endosteum to endosteum. This is not essential 
for growth of the graft, but gives better blood supply and quicker 
growth. It is a far superior method to the intramedullary grafts. 

5. Attach the soft tissues singly about the graft and suture muscle 
attachments to the graft as near their normal position as possible. 

6. As early as possible, allow slight movement in the part, so that 



OPEN TREATMENT OF FRACTURES 



637 



the graft will not only grow, but will conform itself to meet its new 
mechanical functions (Wolff's law) . The z-ray should be the guide as 




FIG. 178. Same as Fig. 177, two weeks after transplant was made. (Operation by 
Dr. A. I. Halstead, St. Lukes Hospital, Chicago.) 

to when to allow this motion, and it should not be done until the graft 
has become firmly fixed. 





Pio. 179. Same as Fig. 177, eight months after operation. Patient is developing 
good function. Illustrates process of "creeping substitution." 

7. It is preferable not to transplant in the presence of infections, 
but, contrary to earlier teachings, experience has taught us that in- 



638 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



fection, even when great amounts of pus are present, does not, as a rule 
destroy the graft. Thus, in compound fractures, much time can be 
gained, instead of waiting until the wound is perfectly healed. 

8. No foreign material, such as silver wire or ivory pegs, should be 
used to hold the graft in place. Kangaroo gut is my choice of material 
for this purpose. 

Figures 165 to 179 illustrate the various points brought out 
in this chapter. 



CHAPTER XXXIX 
AMPUTATIONS 

Amputations the result of injuries occurring in industry have de- 
creased materially during the last ten years but they are still suffi- 
ciently prevalent as to make this one of the most important problems 
confronting the industrial surgeon. Their decrease has been due 
chiefly to: 

1. More prompt attention by the surgeon. 

2. Preventive measures reducing the number of infections. 

3. A more conservative attitude on the part of surgeons toward 
seriously injured extremities. 

4. The "safety first" movement which has materially reduced the 
number of serious accidents in hundreds of our largest industries. 

In a large steel mill prior to the employment of a surgeon con- 
stantly on the job and before the introduction of accident preventive 
measures, amputations were very common. ' The commonest cause of 
these amputations was severe crushing wounds followed by infection. 
After a surgeon was employed, prompt emergency treatment was 
rendered to all of these cases with the result that the number of infec- 
tions decreased rapidly. This surgeon claimed that the reduction was 
due chiefly to the use of tincture of iodin which was immediately 
applied to wounds no matter how extensive the injured area. This 
concern was one of the first to adopt the measures advocated by the 
National Safety Council and immediately these serious accidents 
became less frequent. This is the history of hundreds of other 
industries. 

The cost of installing these accident prevention measures, plus the 
cost of employing the best surgical talent to render proper and immedi- 
ate surgical care to injured employees is far below the cost of paying 
indemnities for permanent disabilities especially when involving the 
loss of members. For a decade this doctrine has received nation 
wide publicity but still there are industries so short-sighted as to refuse 
to adopt such a straightforward business proposition. Neither the 
economic nor the humanitarian viewpoint seems to appeal to them. It 
is high time that both the States and Federal governments awake to 
their responsibilities and legislate most drastically with a view to 
preventing loss of members and loss of life from industrial accidents. 

In civil practice surgeons have become far more conservative with 
regard to amputating injured members than they were previously. 

639 



640 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



This is undoubtedly due to the fact that our present day methods of 
combating infections are superior to the old methods; the transplan- 
tation of skin, fascia and bone has enabled the repair of wounds which 
formerly were considered hopeless; and there has been a growing tend- 
ency to delay amputation to some subsequent date, trying the re- 
parative work first and later amputating if this failed. The severe 
infections, especially from the gas bacillus, following war injury has 
necessitated the more radical operations on the part of the army 
surgeon. Many wounds occurring on the battlefield have made 
amputations necessary which if received in industry would have yielded 
to conservative treatment. The opportunity of giving more prompt 
attention to the wounds and the absence of these extremely virulent 
infections make the latter course possible. Medical officers returning 
to the accident surgery of civil life must constantly bear these facts in 
mind. 

Through the courtesy of Dr. Royal Meeker, Commissioner of 
Labor Statistics, United States Department of Labor, the author was 
able to obtain the most recent figures concerning industrial accidents 
in the United States for the year 1917. Of the 875,000 non-fatal in- 
dustrial accidents causing disability of over four weeks, 68,820 resulted 
in amputations of some member of the body. These were distributed 
as follows : 

Loss of one finger or part of finger 52,050 

Loss of two or more fingers 9,100 

Loss of one hand or arm 2,880 

Loss of one foot or leg 1,220 

All othe'r specific losses (including multiple) 3,580 



Total .- 68,830 

When we consider the thousands and thousands of amputations 
which result yearly from accidents received on the streets, on the farms 
and in the homes which are not included in the above figures, we obtain 
some conception of the size of this problem. The estimated number of 
amputated cases for all the nations participating in the present war is 
thought to be between 400,000 and 500,000, approximately 100,000 a 
year. The number of amputated cases from industrial accidents in the 
United States during one year closely approaches the yearly rate from 
this terrible war. 

It is evident, therefore, that the treatment of injuries necessitating 
amputations is one of the most important problems in industrial 
surgery. Every country participating in the present war has made an 
intensive study of this problem in all its aspects with a view of obtain- 
ing the very best economic end-results for the soldiers thusly disabled. 
As a result of these studies, many valuable principles applicable to 



AMPUTATIONS 641 

industrial surgery have been conceived. If the surgeon in civil 
practice will take full advantage of these great principles the unfortu- 
nate patient in the future who loses a limb should have many more 
opportunities for a happy existence than has been afforded to these 
individuals in the past. 

Finger Amputations. In industry, the majority of finger am- 
putations result from crushing wounds in machinery ; from saws, heavy 
shears, presses, etc., cleanly severing the finger from the hand; from 
lacerations, nail wounds, splinters, scratches and abrasions which, 
through neglect, become seriously infected. Statistics obtained from 
several accident insurance companies and from a number of industrial 
surgeons showed a surprisingly high percentage of amputated fingers 
resulted from infections of minor wounds. In order to eradicate the 
great loss of fingers from industrial accidents two things are necessary: 

1. Proper protection against these machinery accidents; 

2. Immediate antisepsis and proper emergency treatment of all 
finger accidents with a view of preventing these infections. 

Formerly I followed the usual procedure in amputating these 
injured fingers, namely, removing a sufficient portion of the bone to 
enable the formation of an anterior and posterior skin flap which could 
be approximated and sutured. This practically always resulted in a 
loss of a greater portion of the finger than actually occurred at the time 
of the accident. Like most surgeons, it was felt that quicker healing 
and a more sightly result could be obtained by such reparative work. 

The great majority of finger injuries requiring amputation which 
report to the surgeon are of the following types : 

1. The tip of the finger crushed off with loss of only a slight portion 
of the bone. 

2. Most of the distal phalanx removed with a small portion of the 
bone exposed and the soft tissues lacerated for a short distance above 
the point of severance. 

3. The distal phalanx and the lower third of the middle phalanx 
crushed off leaving the bone splintered and exposed and the soft tissues 
lacerated. 

4. Complete loss of the finger often including the end of the 
metacarpal bone and the soft tissues about the lower portion of the 
palm lacerated. 

One or more of the fingers may be thusly injured. For the last 
five years I have treated such finger injuries as follows: 

1. Immediately paint the wound with tincture of iodin. 

2. With sterile gauze make gentle but firm pressure upon the in- 
jured part until the bleeding ceases. When necessary, a bleeding 
artery is grasped with forceps and ligated. 

3. If the bone is splintered and protrudes below the soft tissues, 

41 



642 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

it is snipped off even with the rest of the wound by means of a bone 
forceps. If it does not protrude it is left entirely alone. 

4. Loose shreds of tissue deprived of sufficient circulation are 
removed. No other effort is made, however, to trim up the soft 
parts. 

5. Narrow strips of adhesive plaster one-eighth to one-fourth of an 
inch in width are now applied over the wound directly on the skin. 
These adhesive strips extend up the finger from one inch to two inches 
above the wound. They are first applied on the flexor surface, pulled 
down snugly over the wound and then back over the extensor surface. 
They should not overlap but a small space should be left between each 
strip to allow for oozing and drainage. One or two strips should 
next be applied over the wound from side to side. The portion of the 
adhesive plaster which comes in contact with the wound can be 
sterilized by painting it with tincture of iodin before applying it. 
After the strips are in place, they should be lightly painted with tinc- 
ture of iodin. Next a sterile gauze dressing is applied and the injured 
member bandaged. 

6. This dressing should be changed daily but the strips need not 
be removed for at least four days unless infection makes it necessary 
which is rare. Adhesive strips should be reapplied every four to 
six days. 

By this method no more of the finger is lost than actually occurs 
at the time of the accident. The adhesive strips prevent retraction 
of the soft tissues from the bone, pull the skin edges inward, form a 
bridge for the new granulations, and finally cause a complete approxi- 
mation of the soft tissues over the end of the bone with excellent 
closure of the wound. The advantages of this line of treatment are : 

(1) A greater portion of the member is saved; (2) it can be carried 
out without an anesthetic and the necessary operative work required 
by making flaps and suturing; (3) better drainage is afforded in case 
of infection; (4) the patient is more pleased because at each subsequent 
dressing he can see that the maximum saving of tissue is being attained. 
The only disadvantage -is that in clean cases the length of treatment 
is usually prolonged over the period required for healing when the 
skin is immediately approximated by the flap method. 

The manager of one of the departments once reported to the 
doctor's office complaining of a slight pain in his abdomen. One of 
the surgeons placed him upon a new operating table in order to exam- 
ine the abdomen. This table was a new-fangled contraption which 
could be made into a chair. After the examination, as the patient 
was arising from the table, the footpiece fell forward. The manager's 
right index finger was caught in the hinge in some way and the tip 
completely cut off at the middle of the distal phalanx. Naturally 



AMPUTATIONS 643 

the manager was very outspoken in his criticisms of such an office 
and the surgeon was extremely chagrined. I was immediately 
called and endeavored to explain that the table was new and the ac- 
cident was not the fault of the doctor (this case afforded the example 
that "safety first" methods must be applied in the doctor's office 
and in the hospitals). I explained to the manager that we could 
remove the remaining portion of the bone back to the joint, coapt 
the flaps and secure a good result with only the loss of his distal 
phalanx; or by prolonging the treatment somewhat we could treat 
it by the adhesive strip method and most of the finger would grow 
back into place even including a portion of the nail. The latter 
plan was adopted and in six weeks the wound had healed. At the 
time of the accident careful measurements of both index fingers were 
made and the right one was just a half inch shorter than the left. 
Three months after the accident comparison of the two fingers showed 
only one-fourth of an inch difference in length. The injured finger had 
a natural tapering and a well-formed nail which required close inspec- 
tion to show that it was somewhat shorter than the other nail. The 
excellent result obtained removed all criticism concerning the accident. 

The removal of bone and soft tissue in order to attain well-formed 
flaps which can be sutured over the end of the severed finger is wasteful 
surgery not only wasteful to the employee but necessitating greater 
compensation on the part of the employer for the loss of the member. 

This adhesive plaster treatment is also applicable to many cases 
suffering loss of a portion of the palm or a portion of the foot. I 
have also used it to approximate the flaps in amputations of the leg 
and arm where haste in operating is indicated. 

Amputations of Upper Extremity. The emergency treatment 
consists in antisepticizing the wound with tincture of iodin and com- 
bating hemorrhage and shock. The subsequent indications are: 
(1) to secure the safety of the patient, and (2) to secure the best 
functional result. The best functional result will depend upon the 
amount of the member saved, the location of the scar and especially 
the absence of a painful scar, and the adaptability of the stump to the 
artificial limb which must be worn. 

When infection is present the safety of the patient can best be 
conserved by establishing good drainage without endeavoring to form 
and approximate flaps. The Interallied Surgical Congress has re- 
quested that amputation for infection should be flapless or with short 
flaps held apart. When it is necessary to leave the incision open 
traction should be applied to the skin just as soon as possible in order 
to overcome retraction (see Fig. 180) and thus limit the size of the 
resulting scar. After the infection has subsided a reamputation, in 
order to secure a proper closure, may be necessary but quite frequently 



644 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



approximation can be secured by the adhesive plaster method out- 
lined above especially in the smaller extremities. 

The location of the scar in arm amputations should either be 
posterior or preferably across the end of the stump as in using the 
stump pressure is usually exerted laterally and not on the end. 
A wrist stump, however, requires frequent end pressure and for this 
reason a long palmar flap with the scar at the back of the wrist 
is preferable. In all other locations the short anteroposterior flaps 
will be found the most useful. Whenever possible the muscles and 
deep fascia should be sutured over the end of the bones in order to 
prevent an adherent scar and to give sufficient bulk to form a cushion. 




FIG. 180. Traction applied to skin to prevent retraction. Stump extension with a 
modified Thomas splint. (Adapted from Sinclair.) "A Thomas knee splint is cut 
down and a 9-inch square riveted on to the side bars 12 inches beyond the end 'of stump. 
An 8-inch circle of aluminum is attached by gauze and glue to the skin of the stump so 
as to be 6 inches distal to the cut surface. Extension is made from the ring to the 
square either by tapes or rubber bands. The square acts as a pedestal and also for the 
attachment of the extensions." (Courtesy, " The Military Surgeon.") 

Redundancy of tissue affording excessive motion is to be avoided 
as in this case the skin may become irritated from rubbing against the 
socket of the artificial appliance. In amputations of the forearm - oft 
tissues must be carefully sutured between the ends of the ulna and 
radius to prevent union between these bones as such union interferes 
with pronation and supination. 

The Division of Military Orthopedic Surgery of the Office of the 
Surgeon General of the United States Army has made an extensive 
study of the preferable sites of amputation as related to the future 
requirements of the artificial appliance. These favorable sites are 
graphically shown in Fig. 181. 



AMPUTATIONS 



645 



I. 

PREFERABLE SITES of AMPUTATION from 
ARTIFICIAL LIMB STANDPOINT 

(UPPER EXTREMITY) 




Leave Humeral Head.if possible as it isof 
advantage in filling Glenoid Cavity 

Upper Bone Limit of Functional 
Value in Arm Amputation. 

2 inches of bone shortest stump of value 
in activating appliance 



jtone Level of Greatest Functional Value 
in Arm Amputation 



Upper Bone Limit of Functional Value 
in Forearm Amputation 

3 inches of bone shortest of value 



.Bone Level of Greatest functional Value 
in Forearm Amputation Because of 
Preservation of Power of Pronation 
and Supination. 

Save Every Portion of Hand Possible. 
Short anterior and posterior Haps the rule 
except at wrist where long palmar flap is usefl. 



Fia. 181. Courtesy, " The Military Surgeon." 



646 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



In a report from the Orthopedic Division published in the Military 
Surgeon for February, 1918, the following statements regarding the 
site for amputations in the upper extremity are made: 

"'In the hand it is generally recognized that the importance of 
preserving as much as possible of the thumb and fingers need hardly 
be emphasized. A thumb, or part of a thumb, together with some 
portion of fingers or hand to which it can be opposed, is more useful 
than any artificial contrivance which can be fitted. In this region 
irregular operations trimming, removal of splinters of bone or 
sequestra, etc., are likely to give better functiomal results than any set 
amputation.' 

"At the wrist there is a decided advantage in disarticulation on 
account of the better preservation of the forces of pronation and 
supination, which are now being used to activate the artificial hand. 
Moreover, in this case it is easy to put the necessary mechanism below 
the wrist. A further advantage in amputation at this point is that the 
enlargement of the wrist is a decided aid in holding the artificial arm 
in position. 

"In the forearm, amputation in the lower part of the middle third 
gives a good and useful stump. While the circulation of stumps 
in the lower third is often poor, yet the better preservation of the power 
of pronation and supination that is secured by amputating as near the 
wrist as possible makes this site desirable; to ensure freedom of these 
movements every precaution should be taken at the time of operation 
to guard against union of the ends of the bones by osseous or fibrous 
adhesions. Above the middle of the forearm it becomes of increasing 
importance, the nearer the elbow is approached, to save every fraction 
of an inch possible. When the stump is less than three inches, great 
difficulty is experienced in preventing it from slipping out of the socket, 
owing particularly to the action of the biceps tendon during flexion of 
the elbow, and with the short stump there is also naturally a decided 
loss in leverage. 'If it is impossible to get a forearm stump extending 
at least an inch and a half below the insertion of the tendon of the 
biceps, amputation above the condyles of the humerus is to be 
preferred.' 

"In the upper arm the lowest point at which amputation is desirable 
is just above the condyles (about two inches above the center of the 
joint); the reasons for this are similar to those already discussed. 
From this point the longer the stump the better. Above the middle of 
the upper arm the surgeon must utilize every surgical expedient to save 
all the length possible ; the power to control an artificial arm diminishes 
to an alarming degree with each loss of even a slight portion of bone. 
But little can be expected from a stump in which the bone extends less 
than two inches below the axillary fold. Since a terminal and even an 



AMPUTATIONS 



647 



adherent scar is not particularly objectionable in the upper extremity, 
owing to the pressure being exerted laterally, skin-grafting (usually 
inadvisable in a leg stump) may be employed to cover defects rather 
than a reamputation performed. Moreover, in some cases, 'a 
good deal can be gained by removing wholly or in part the folds of the 
axilla, that is, the pectoralis major and the teres minor. This has 
been done with good results and seems to be an operation worth 
doing in suitable cases.' It is always advisable to retain any portion 
of the upper end of the humerus, even if only the head, rather than 
to remove it (as is necessary under similar conditions in the thigh), 
since the appliance is fitted much more easily when the glenoid 
cavity is filled." 

Amputations of the Lower Extremity. The emergency treatment 
and the same general indications described for the upper extremity 
are also applicable to amputations performed on the lower extremity. 
Fig. 180 shows the method of extension which can be applied to the 
lower limb when infection necessitates the "guillotine" or Sapless 
amputation. 

The location of the scar and the condition of the tissue at the end 
of the stump are of prime importance as end-bearing stumps are be- 
coming more and more popular. Practically all artificial legs are de- 
signed by the makers with a view of carrying the weight either on the 
ischial tuberosity or on the tuberosities of the tibia. H. H. M. Llyle, 1 
has pointed out the importance of end-bearing stumps in a large pro- 
portion of cases. The importance of such stumps has been further 
demonstrated by E. M. Little 2 reporting on the amputated cases at 
Roehampton. 

Dr. David Silver advocates the closest co-operation between the 
surgeon and the artificial limb maker in order to increase the number 
of end-bearing stumps; "for it is obvious that the transference of even 
a part of the weight to the end of the stump will conduce to greater 
comfort and improve function." 

With this in mind the placement of the scar is exceedingly impor- 
tant. Tuffier says: "In the leg, amputation by circular incision re- 
sults in terminal cicatrices which have every defect of situation, shape 
and adherence; on this point all surgeons are agreed." Therefore, 
leg flaps should be made of unequal length thus forming the scar along 
the lateral and preferably the posterior surfaces. Here again the mus- 
cles and fascia should be carefully sutured over the end of the bone in 
order to secure a sufficient pad of soft tissue. Llyle very aptly states 
that "the best formed stump, if not quickly put to use as a real sup- 
port, may become atrophied and useless." 

1 Jour. Am. Med. Assoc., Vol. xviii,1914. 

2 Brit- Med. Jour., Oct. 27, 1917. 



648 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



The preferable sites of amputation in the lower extremity are shown 
in Fig. 182. This chart was also prepared by the Division .of Ortho- 
pedic Surgery of the Surgeon General's Office and is explained by them 
as follows: 

"In the foot it is undesirable to save a solitary toe, even the great- 
'est toe. Amputation just back of the heads of the metatarsal bones, 
in front of the attachment of the tibiales and peronei, may be fitted so 
as to give a useful foot; but amputation through the tarsus, back of 
the muscular attachment just mentioned, is usually unsatisfactory, 
as sooner or later a condition of equinus is likely to result due to con- 
traction of the unopposed calf muscles and walking becomes difficult 
or impossible. 

" At the ankle a satisfactory end-bearing stump is usually secured 
by Syme's amputation, in which the bones are divided just above the 
joint line and at right angles to the long axis of the tibia. The Syme is 
preferable to the Pirogoff, as it gives more room for an ankle joint 
mechanism and avoids the difficulty frequently encountered in keeping 
the end of the os calcis in position. 

"In the lower leg the middle third is generally considered the most 
favorable site; many artificial limb makers prefer amputation at the 
middle of the leg to any amputation back of the toes. With proper 
surgical precaution and a good modern artificial limb, end-bearing 
usually should always be secured and the gait be practically normal. 
The fibula should always be cut an inch shorter than the tibia and the 
sharp point of the tibial crest removed in the usual manner. The lower 
third is not so favorable; the tibia is smaller at this point and not so 
satisfactory for end-bearing, and circulatory disturbances are not 
infrequent. In the upper third a very short stump of course gives 
poor leverage but fair results are sometimes obtained with as little as 
two inches of bone. However, a stump as short as this is usually in- 
advisable, as it will ordinarily have to be fitted with the older type of 
knee-bearing leg with the tibial stump bent to a right angle; this has 
only the advantage of direct knee-bearing, which can usually be se- 
cured by amputation at the lower end of the femur, and possesses all 
the disadvantages incident to artificial knee-joint construction. 

"Emphasis needs to be laid on the fact that the old 'site of election' 
(four inches below the knee) was intended to produce this direct 
knee-bearing stump and must now, therefore, be entirely disregarded. 

"In the thigh the best amputation is, of course, one just above the 
condyles; when conditions permit, the patella may with advantage 
be utilized to cover the end of the femur. (The preservation of a part 
of the condyles, with the patella imbedded in them, is favored by some 
limb makers, as it enables the weight of the apparatus to be borne by 
the leg itself.) Above this point all the length possible should be 



AMPUTATIONS 



649 



II 

PREFERABLE SITES '/AMPUTATION 
ARTIFICIAL LIMB STANDPOINT. 

(LOWER EXTREMITY) 



Abov<? this upper fimit disarticulate.- 
Two-step operation usually preferable 

Upper Bone Limit of Functional 
Value in Thigh Amputation 

Two inch slump measured from 
pubes shortest ever of value. 




Bono Level of Greatest Functional 
Value in Thigh Amputation. 



one Limit of Functional 
Value in Leg Amputation. 

Two inches of Tibia shortest ever of vafue. 

.Bone Level of Greatest Functional Value 
fin Leg Amputation, At or Just Below HieMidoV 
r 8 inches of bone best from artificial limb standpoint. 

Bone Level of Good functional Value But 
Unsatisfactory for Fitting. 

Upper Bone Limit of Functional Value 
in Foot Amputation. 



JMPVT/IT/O/V 'tfone Dir/s7o/i)M SH/40ED 
'SWSMCTORy fROMAJtr/F/CML UMB STANDPOINT. 



FIQ. 182. Courtesy, "The Military Surgeon." 



650 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



saved, as the possibility of end-bearing decreases rapidly as the upper 
limit of usefulness as regards leverage is approached. A stump in 
which the bone is less than three inches, measured from the pubis, is of 
little value, and exarticulation is preferable. 1 The linea aspera requires 
attention in the same manner as the crest of the tibia. 

"To avoid shock a subtrochanteric or intratrochanteric amputa- 
tion may be first performed by the flapless or short flap method, and 
the removal of the end of the bone left for a later period. 

"It is now possible to fit an exarticulation of the hip with a very 
satisfactory appliance; in some cases the gait is even better than with 
the shorter stumps." 

The best functional result in all amputations depends upon proper 
surgical procedures at the time of operating and upon the subsequent 
care of the stump. During the operation the following points must 
particularly be borne in mind: (1) The periosteum should be carefully 
severed with a knife just above the level at which the bone is to be 
divided, as shredded periosteum frequently causes exostosis and spur 
formation; (2) at least one inch of the nerve should be removed by 
drawing it down from its sheath and severing with scissors or a knife, 
and then suturing the sheath over the retracted end; (3) all blood- 
vessels should be carefully ligated instead of trusting to crushing with 
artery forceps; (4) a sufficient amount of muscle and fascia should 
be drawn over the end of the bone and sutured with catgut; (5) the 
viability of the skin flaps should be assured; it is better to only partially 
approximate these flaps rather than submit them to undue tension. 

The subsequent treatment of the stump is constantly directed 
toward overcoming muscular weakness and limitation of motion. 
Lack of sufficient strength to successfully use an artificial limb is one 
of the chief causes of discouragement in the patient. Pain and tender- 
ness in the stump will cause the patient to postpone all efforts to use 
the member thus causing more or less atrophy from disuse. Limi- 
tation of motion will often prevent the application of an artificial 
appliance and will further rob the patient of the incentive to use the 
part. All of these conditions tend to destroy the best functional 
result. To overcome these conditions, certain routine measures must 
be applied to the stump combined with functional re-education of the 
member. 

A systematic plan of treatment destined to meet all indications 
is set forth in instructions issued by the Surgeon General's Office of 
the United States Army. 

" While the incision is healing, at each dressing the stump should be 

1 This statement has recently been contested by some excellent surgeons who 
claim that the head of the femur left intact facilitates application and function, 
of artificial appliance. 



AMPUTATIONS 651 

moved to the full limit in the opposite direction to that in which a 
contracture is likely to develop. In forearm stumps, movement should 
be carried out in supination and extension; in upper arm amputations, in 
an upward and backward motion; in the lower leg, in extension and in 
thigh amputations, in extension (securing hyperextension) and adduc- 
tion. It is usually advisable to keep all stumps elevated while the patient 
is recumbent and, therefore, particular attention should be directed 
to thigh amputations because this position favors a flexion contracture; 
to counteract this tendency it is recommended that once or twice 
each day the pillow be removed from under the stump and placed 
under the buttock, thus allowing the stump to drop into hyperexten- 
sion. Further, advantage should be taken of the position in which the 
stump is dressed in order to guard against the tendency to contracture; 
thus in forearm stumps, where supination is hardest to control, 
the dressing should be applied so as to maintain the bones in this 
position. When the incision has had to be left open, movement 
of the joint in the other directions, also, should be added as soon as 
conditions permit. 

"As soon as the wound is healed, or practically so, and while the 
patient is still confined to bed, the following routine (modified from 
Hirsch) is begun: 

"1. Massage. The stump should be massaged for a period varying 
from ten to thirty minutes, once or twice a day, according to its 
size and position. The region of the incision should naturally be 
avoided for the first few times and care taken not to make undue 
tension on the fresh scar. As rapidly as the tolerance of the stump 
will permit, the depth and the force of the massage should be increased 
up to the full normal limits. 

"2. Bandaging. After the massage, the stump should be redressed 
with a cotton dressing, bandaged snugly in place, or if it is well healed, 
a bias flannel bandage alone may be used. The latter, when properly 
applied in several layers, gives a firm, even pressure. 

"3. Pressure Exercise. The patient is directed to press the end of 
the bandaged stump against a cushion, placed in the bed or against a 
frame. This must be begun with care, pressure being made at first 
for only several minutes at four or five hour intervals; if there is no un- 
favorable reaction, it should be increased gradually up to five or ten 
minutes every two hours and then every hour. 

"4. Movements. After each pressure exercise, active movements 
of the stump are to be made in all directions, to the full limits of the 
joint motion, for three to five minutes. Later, some form of resistance 
movements may be added to advantage, in order to still further build 
up the strength of the muscles controlling the stump and so make 
the early use of the artificial limb more easy. 






652 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

"5. Baths, etc. Hydrotherapy in the form of hot packs or warm 
baths, or electric light baths are to be used as indicated to improve 
the circulation and hasten absorption. The contrast bath is par- 
ticularly valuable, the rapid dilatation and contraction of the blood- 
vessels which it produces causing a marked improvement in the local 
vascular and nervous tone; the simplest method of application consists 
in the use of two buckets, the stump being plunged first into the hot 
water and then into cold, as rapidly as the patient can change it, for 
five or ten minutes. 

"When the patient is able to leave the bed, the measures just out- 
lined are to be continued, but in the case of leg amputations the pres- 
sure exercise is to be discontinued as described and direct weight- 
bearing on the stump begun. A stool of the proper height and 
a cushion are provided and the patient, supporting himself with his 
hands, allows at first only a little weight to rest upon the bandaged 
stump; the amount of weight borne and the time are then gradually 
increased, in a manner similar to that used in the pressure exercise 
in bed, until the entire weight can be taken on the stump. The 
patient may then carefully begin to hammer on the stool with the end 
of the stump, in imitation of the pounding which takes place in 
walking with an artificial limb provided for end-bearing. As soon 
as the patient can stand alone for a long time without getting tired, 
and with no other support than that needed to balance himself, a 
temporary leg, properly provided for end-bearing, may be fitted and 
walking begun, crutches being used guardedly and dispensed with as 
soon as possible. For a long time, however, the patient should con- 
tinue to practise standing on the bare stump on a hard surface three 
times a day. 

"The 'value of end-bearing is generally admitted. The measures 
suggested, both with respect to the amputation and the care of the 
stump, are simple and have borne the test of clinical experience. Their 
persistent use is urged upon all. While it is recognized that in very 
many cases the presence of long-continued infection will seriously delay 
the institution of proper after-treatment, yet much good may still be 
expected even when begun late, and there will be a large number 'in 
which the routine may be followed from the first. The ideal cases 
will obviously be those requiring reamputation, which will naturally 
be deferred until entirely favorable conditions can be secured and 
which can, therefore, be performed solely with regard to the require- 
ments of the artificial limb. Even when the attempt to secure end- 
bearing is unsuccessful rigid adherence to the routine just described 
is still to be insisted on; the improved conditions of the stump, the 
greater freedom from pain and the avoidance of much of the discom- 
fort usually associated with the early use of an artificial limb are more 
than sufficient to repay one for the additional trouble. 



AMPUTATIONS 



653 



"The joint motion should be tested by the surgeon at regular in- 
tervals, particularly in bed-ridden infected cases, in order to be cer- 
tain that the full range is retained. At the elbow, in addition to veri- 
'fying the presence of complete flexion and extension, the freedom of 
rotation of the radial head must be determined and particularly with 
reference to outward rotation (supination) ; the value of the movements 
of pronation and supination in activating the artificial hand will de- 




ARMf rtEOICAL MUiBurt 

W.T. . 



FIG, 183. Temporary artificial legs. (Courtesy, "The Military Surgeon") 

pend upon the degree possible, the loss of even a few degrees making 
a great difference. Of the movements of the shoulder girdle (upward, 
downward, forward, backward, and circumduction), the upward and 
backward ones are the most important ; these may be easily tested with 
the patient lying at the edge of the bed or turned on the opposite side. 
At the knee it is well to remember that there are normally a few de- 
grees of recurvation. In testing the hip, the presence or absence of 
flexion deformity may be determined (following the method used in 
hip disease) by flexing the opposite thigh fully on the trunk, the stump 
rising from the bed when a contracture exists, or with; the patient 



654 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



lying on the face, the degree of hyperextension may be determined 
(again as in the similar test used in hip disease) by lifting the stump 
with one hand while holding down the buttock with the other; in test- 
ing the amount of adduction, movement of the pelvis should be con- 
trolled with one hand while the other manipulates the stump." 

In order to accustom patients to the early use of the stump and 
limb, and to prevent undue atrophy and shrinkage of the member, 
temporary artificial limbs have been devised for the use of amputated 
cases among the soldiers in the United States Army. These tempo- 
rary appliances also enable early introduction of functional re-educa- 
tion as a definite part of the therapeutic treatment of these cases. 




FIG. 184. Temporary artificial arm, plaster paris socket, with various appliances 
which help to stimulate the early use of the remaining portion of the member. (From 
"The Military Surgeon.") 

These temporary limbs are made by covering the stump and limb 
with felt, then moulding a plaster-of-Paris socket carefully over the 
part and fitting it snugly against the end of the stump and the tuber- 
osities which must help support the weight. Into this plaster-of-Paris 
socket are incorporated a stock frame, similar to the lower portion of 
a crutch, when an artificial leg is desired; or a stock clamp made of a 
piece of flat iron with wing end and rivet, when an artificial arm is 
desired. Rings are securely embodied in the upper end of the plaster 
socket into which web straps can be inserted in order to fasten the 
socket to the body. Fig. 183 illustrates these temporary artificial legs 



AMPUTATIONS 



655 



while Fig. 184 shows an artificial arm with the various utensils which 
can be attached to the clamp. 

Many other appliances can be incorporated in these artificial 
arms. For instance, one arm socket has attached to it a tennis racket 
and this patient has become an expert tennis player although he has 
lost his forearm at the middle third. Another patient has an attach- 
ment on his plaster socket which enables him to play golf while still 
another enjoys a game of billiards by means of a special ball and socket 
joint attached to his artificial appliance. Special hooks and clamps 
have been invented which enable the grasping of saws, chisels, ham- 
mers and other tools thus enabling these patients to work, thereby 




FIG. 185. Tennis rackets, billiard cues, golf clubs and other appliances can be 
fastened to these sockets. 

gaining more and more strength in the member plus the psychothera- 
peutic benefits of both work and play (Fig. 185). 

A full description of these temporary appliances can be found in 
the Military Surgeon for April, 1918. Every surgeon caring for the 
accident cases in industry should familiarize himself with these ad- 
vanced methods of handling amputated cases. No longer should 
we be contented with merely operating on these patients securing 
good surgical results and then allowing the patients to wait several 
months before securing the artificial limb, finally leaving the applica- 
tion of this limb purely to the judgment and commercial instincts 
of the artificial limb manufacturer. The fitting of the permanent ar- 



656 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



tificial appliance is just as definitely a part of the surgeon's work as is 
the performing of the operation. 

Lt. Col. David Silver says: 

" In studying the problem of the artificial arm, one is struck again 
and again by the value of relatively simple appliances and the impor- 
tance of thorough training in their use. With a simple wrist strap, an 
armless man is able to dress and feed himself and do most of his 
ordinary daily acts. A strap over the shoulder, properly provided 




FIG. 186. Teaching amputation cases to use artificial legs at Walter Reed Hospital. 

with a ring, is sufficient to enable the one-armed man to plow, use a 
wheelbarrow, spade and pitch hay. A single working appliance has 
enabled a man who suffered a disarticulation of the right shoulder 
and an amputation of the left forearm to be entirely independent. 
After all it is a matter of a little brains and much perseverance." 

During the long weeks of convalescence following amputations, 
the surgeon has it within his power to imbue these patients with the 
sentiments expressed by Michael Dowling who philosophically says, 
"A man may be worth $100,000 a year from his neck up and worth 
only $1.50 a day from his neck down." 



CHAPTER XL 
THE EMPLOYEE'S FOOT 

After the present war millions of young men will be returned to 
civil life who have learned the lesson of the proper care of the feet. 
Every soldier in the army, including medical officers, realizes that as 
a nation we have displayed extreme ignorance in the past regarding the 
type of shoe worn, the health of the foot and the resulting lowered 
efficiency. 

Industrial surgeons can increase the competency of the working 
forces and can reduce the time lost from work by giving more scientific, 
as well as common sense attention to the employee's foot. Not only 
will the comfort and happiness of the employees be increased, but 
the financial returns from this service alone will almost pay the 
expenses of the doctor's office. 

The shoes of the working man and woman should receive our first 
consideration. Very few people wear proper shoes. As a rule they 
are either too narrow or too short. Often the narrow shoes with pointed 
toes are bought for dress-up purposes and when they become a little 
worn out are used for work. Heels are usually too high, especially 
among the women employees, many of whom insist upon wear- 
ing the high French heels while at work. Oversized shoes are worn 
by some employees and are equally bad as their feet are thus subject 
to trauma from the shoe rubbing up and down. 

Accidents, especially from falls, frequently result from faulty 
shoes. A sole which is worn nearly through permits a nail or splinter 
to puncture the foot. A loose, flapping sole will often cause a fall 
which results in a few days time lost from work or even perma- 
nent disability. High heels worn by women are a common cause of 
falls while descending a flight of stairs. During one year I treated 
fourteen fracture cases among girls and all but four of these resulted 
from falls which could be traced to their high heels. The factory 
inspector of one of our largest industrial states recently told the author 
the fracture rate from accidents had increased almost 50 per cent, 
during the last year (1918); he stated that this was due to the greater 
number of women employed in industry since we entered the war 
and that the large percentage of these fractures were due to faulty 
shoes. He had just inspected 700 women workers in one factory 
and only fifteen of these were wearing shoes with a low, common sense 
heel. 

42 657 



658 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



The minor foot ailments which result from wearing the wrong 
type of shoes not only cause an actual loss of time from work but 
result in a mental and physical attitude on the part of the affected 
employees which materially decreases their efficiency. Such people 
are uncomfortable and cross and their mind is on their painful feet 
more than on their work. Their speed is slowed up and they must 
frequently sit down and rest. Driven to despair, they try to operate 
on a corn or ingrown toe-nail or to open a blister and as a result 
infections often develop. Many cases of prolonged disability from 
infections following these self-attempted operations have been seen by 
every surgeon in industry. 

It is quite obvious, therefore, that more attention must be paid 
to the shoes worn by employees. Now is the logical time to persuade 
all men to adopt a shoe similar to the Munson last used in the army. 
A shoe made along these same lines for all men workers should be 
strongly advocated. A nation-wide educational campaign, pointing. 




FIG. 187. Illustrating foot resting on the two sides of a concave inner sole without 
support to the transverse arch. (Rugh, in Journal A. M. A.} 

out the advantages to both health and efficiency gained by wearing 
proper shoes is certainly indicated and the surgeons in industry are 
in position to take the lead in such a campaign. 

The little book entitled "The Soldier's Foot" by Colonel Munson, 
M. C., U. S. A., should be the guide of every surgeon in advising his 
patients regarding the proper care of the feet. 

The Munson last is a wider shoe at the toe than is normally worn 
by civilians. As a result the toes are not cramped and the muscles 
of the foot have freer play, and room to develop and strengthen. 
When. properly fitted, there is about two-thirds of an inch between the 
longest toe and the end of the shoe. The heel is held firmly in the 
shoe and the forefoot fits snugly against the vamp. The ball of the 
foot rests securely in its seat near the posterior turn of the sole. The 
sole is slightly convex, conforming to the concavity of the foot, 
instead of being a concave sole as is usually the case with so many 
of the shoes worn by working men and women. Fig. 187 shows the 
lack of support to the transverse arch afforded by such shoes. 



THE EMPLOYEE'S FOOT 659 

Many conditions, especially corns, callosities, blisters and early 
signs of flat-foot will disappear when the feet are fitted with the 
proper shoes, for instance this Munson last. 

In examining applicants for work and in examining old employees 
the physician in industry should always examine the shoes, as well 
as the condition of the feet. Tactfully the socks should likewise 
be examined and vvhen dirty or containing holes or too short, instruc- 
tions concerning the proper type of sock should be given. When 
ill-fitting shoes are worn the dangers from the same should be pointed 
out and the proper type recommended. Such employees should be 
re-examined to ascertain whether the recommendations have been 
followed. Just as in the case of eye conditions or bad teeth so should 
the feet receive the same attention and when necessary loans should 
be advanced by the Employees Service Department for the obtaining 
of proper shoes, as is done for the buying of proper glasses. 

Foot disabilities are so common that few concerns could afford 
to reject such cases for employment and, in fact, such a course would 
work great injustice, but the efficiency of the working force can be 
maintained at a higher standard if careful selection of jobs is made 
for such people. Employees with the following defects should always 
be assigned to the sedentary occupations, where foot power is not 
so essential: (1) flaccid flat feet, with marked abduction or eversion; 
(2) arched or spastic flat feet; (3) disabling arthritic conditions 
following trauma or disease; (4) marked callosities; (5) certain deformi- 
ities following fracture, as pes varus or valgus; (6) painful bunions or 
extreme and painful hallux valgus; (7) weak feet, from partial ampu- 
tations or severe derangements of the joints, especially of the great 
toe; (8) painful heel when due to exostosis of the under surface of the 
os calcis. 

When employees are affected by any of the following foot con- 
ditions corrective measures can be instituted that will make most 
workmen fit and efficient for practically any type of employment: 
(1) flat feet without much abduction or eversion; (2) less marked 
pathologic conditions which apparently have existed for years with- 
out evident trouble; (3) weak and poorly developed feet without patho- 
logic defects; (4) hallux valgus, uninflamed bunions, mild claw toes, 
hammer-toes and ingrown toe-nails; (5) corns, blisters, callosities, 
etc. Employees with such conditions can usually be relieved by 
properly fitted shoes, by alterations of the shoes, as inserting a 
wedge along the inner sole and by such minor operations as may be 
indicated. Such relief is certainly within the province of industrial 
surgery. 

Symptoms arising from foot ailments, especially in cases of flat 
feet, are often not limited to the extremities alone. Pain in the ankles 



660 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

and calves is very common; sciatica is frequently complained of and 
is usually relieved by correction of the foot trouble. 

These symptoms, in addition to affecting the working ability, 
frequently give rise to claims for compensation. Often the pain in the 
back, or the sciatica is blamed on a strain in lifting, a fall or the 
result of jumping from a ladder or platform. Therefore, it is very 
important from a medicolegal standpoint to examine every employee's 
feet, to note every pathologic condition and the symptoms which may 
arise from the same, and to make careful records concerning these. In 
the author's experience, in at least six cases excessive claims for damage 
have been refuted because these employees' records showed the 
pathologic foot condition to have existed to practically the same 
degree at the time of their employment. 

TREATMENT OF SPECIFIC CONDITIONS 

Corns. These are localized callosities of the skin of the foot and 
are due to continued pressure or injury from ill-fitting shoes. The 
first step in curing corns is to remove their cause. Therefore, cor- 
rection of the shoes is the first essential. The commonest palliative 
treatment is to shave or pare the corn but this gives temporary relief 
only. After we began to pay considerable attention to corns in the 
surgical dispensary great numbers of these cases reported. The 
routine treatment consisted of the following: 

1. For small external corns and small internal corns a small strap 
of adhesive plaster was applied tightly over the affected area. This 
was worn for a week, at the end of which time the employee reported 
again and the plaster was removed. The corn was usually so softened 
that the doctor could readily remove it without any bleeding. After 
removal iodin was applied. If necessary, the adhesive plaster treat- 
ment was continued for two or three weeks. Naturally the shoes were 
corrected in every case. 

2. For large corns, callosities and the large soft corns (those 
between toes) a corn salve was applied consisting of the following : 

Salicylic acid 40 parts 

Vaselin 30 parts 

Lanolin 30 parts 

This ointment is smeared immediately over the corn and covered 
with a strip of zinc oxid plaster. These cases are given a small amount 
of the ointment and instructed to soak the foot in warm water every 
night and apply it as above described. After the fourth application 
the employee reports to the doctor who is then able to remove the 
softened corn, usually without any sign of bleeding. The area is 
touched with iodin and if a small area of the corn or callosity remains 



THE EMPLOYEE'S FOOT 661 

adhesive plaster is again applied and usually after three or four days 
can be removed and the corn has disappeared. 

Callosities. Callosities are enlarged corns, usually appearing on 
the soles of the feet, especially at the base of the second toe. They 
are often indicative of a broken transverse arch and usually accompany 
the condition known as Morton's toe. They also appear over the tops 
of toes in marked claw feet or in the condition known as hammer-toe. 
Again they may appear over a bunion. These large callosities fre- 
quently give rise to considerable pain and cause much disability. 

They are treated as described for corns. Shoes with correction of 
flattening of the transverse arch are necessary for the complete cure. 
Various types of pads and arch supports are sold for this condition 
but a cleat of leather one-eighth of an inch thick and one inch wide, fas- 
tened to the sole of the shoe just back of the metatarsal heads is the 
most practicable support. This, combined with proper toe exercises, 
will usually restore the function in this arch. 

Blisters and Abrasions. These commonly result from the wear- 
ing of large size shoes and the constant rubbing of the same on the 
part. They are most commonly located on the heel. 

These should be painted with iodin, pierced at their lowest border 
and after the fluid has been removed, strapped firmly, with zinc oxid 
plaster. Abrasions may first be treated with some soothing powder, 
such as bismuth subnitrate and then covered with the adhesive plaster. 

Fissures. Cracks or fissures of the skin between the toes and on 
the soles of the feet are rather common among employees engaged in 
heavy work in hot places and who are constantly on their feet. They 
are usually quite painful and tend to bleed. Very serious infections 
have occurred from these fissures. 

The feet should be washed and dried thoroughly, rubbed with al- 
cohol and dusted over with boric powder or bismuth subnitrate, or 
even with talcum powder. Cauterizing of the fissures with silver 
nitrate once or twice will assist in the cure. After this treatment they 
may be covered with adhesive plaster. 

Sweaty Feet. This is a very common affliction among working 
men and causes great loss in their efficiency and may result in actual 
disability. As a result of the sweating the skin on the sole and be- 
tween the toes becomes soft, whitish and dead looking and blisters 
and abrasions form very easily. Such a condition is usually the sign 
of falling arches and its cure, therefore, implies the toning up of the foot 
by proper exercises. 

Frequent bathing of the feet, changing the socks almost daily and 
disinfecting the shoes are absolutely necessary for continued cure. 
The employee should be given a solution, containing formalin ^ per 
cent., choral hydrate 3 per cent., and instructed to rub this on the feet 



662 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



every night after bathing them in very hot water. This should be ap- 
plied with a cloth as it may cause drying and cracking of the hands. 
No more important preventive work can be carried on in the plant 
dispensary than this correction of sweaty feet. 

If bromidrosis is present, or results after the above treatment, the 
condition should be treated by bathing in hot water followed with 
cold and then the foot should be rubbed with olive oil. 

Ingrowing Nails. This condition, most common in the great toe, 
consists of an inward curving of the nail which then grows down into 
the flesh. Pain is often marked and the employee usually tries to 
relieve the condition by cutting away the nail. Infection is very fre- 
quent and a chronic suppurative condition may persist for months 
about the imbedded nail. I have seen one case of general arthritis 
in which the entire body was unsuccessfully searched for the focus of 
infection by the attending physician, when, after about two weeks 
the interne discovered a low-grade suppurative condition about an in- 
grown toe-nail. Curing of this condition resulted in recovery from 
the arthritis. Many cases of severe infection occur from ingrown toe- 
nails. Such a condition is caused by pressure of the socks or shoes, 
combined with improper trimming of the nail. 

The toe-nail must be trimmed squarely across. In mild cases raise 
the edge of the nail with a sterilized probe and insert a small pledget 
of cotton. By reinserting larger pledgets daily the nail may be forced 
away from the flesh. In the more serious cases or where infection 
is present a local anesthetic of J^ per cent, novocain should be injected 
and the outer quarter of the nail removed completely to its base, 
lodin sterilization must precede this operation and should also be ap- 
plied afterwards. Apply hot dressings for twenty-four hours in case of 
infection. Subsequent dressings may consist of white precipitate oint- 
ment covered with a small piece of sterile dressing, held in place by adhe- 
sive plaster. 

Hallux Valgus or Bunions. These are usually the result of faulty 
shoes. The transverse arch is flattened in a majority of the cases. The 
condition consists of a deflection of the great toe toward the outer side 
of the foot, with an enlargement (exostosis) of the lateral aspect of 
the joint. 

Mild cases will usually improve by the use of a proper shoe, such 
as the Munson last. In case the bunion is irritated a bunion ring di- 
vided in half and placed just back of the point of irritation to pro- 
tect rubbing from the shoe and held in place with adhesive plaster 
gives great relief. When the entire bunion ring is applied that portion 
in front of the bunion tends to increase the deflection of the toe and, 
therefore, should never be used. In serious cases, one of the classical 
bunion operations should be performed. The best operation consists 



THE EMPLOYEE'S FOOT 663 

of the removal of the exostosis, combined with the removal of a wedge- 
shaped piece of bone from the proximal end of the phalanx, which is 
then given the proper concavity required for articulation. This is 
not an operation suitable for the plant dispensary but should be per- 
formed at the hospital. 

Hammer-toe. This deformity, usually of the second toe, con- 
sists of a contracture in dorsal flexion at the metatarsal phalangeal 
joint accompanied by "contracture at the plantar flexion at the prox- 
imal interphalangeal joint." A corn or callosity forming on top of 
the toe usually causes great distress and much disability. 

This condition can practically always be cured without amputa- 
tion, which should be condemned as it leaves the foot in a weakened 
condition. Tenotomy of the extensor tendon just back of the meta- 
tarsal phalangeal joint will usually permit the straightening of the toe. 
When necessary a wedge-shaped piece of bone with the base upward 
can be removed from the interphalangeal joint. After the operation 
a small splint is applied. This can be made from a tongue depressor. 
Deformities of the little toe, similar to the above, are very common 
and should be treated in the same way. 

Foot Strain. This is commonly seen in those cases described as 
''flat-foot." It may be of the acute variety where the condition of 
the foot strain occurs without any pathologic change in the arches 
of the foot. Such a condition is common among employees who have 
been transferred from sedentary work to occupations keeping them 
constantly on their feet and especially when this is accompanied with 
carrying of loads. It is characterized by severe pain and the foot may 
become swollen. 

Chronic foot strain is usually accompanied by changes in the arches 
or other pathologic change in the foot. The three commonest types 
are: (1) flaccid feet with flattening of the longitudinal arch; (2) rigid 
feet, usually following arthritic changes, such as adhesions and peri- 
articular infiltrations. When occurring in a single foot it must be 
differentiated from tuberculosis of the joints or bones of the feet. An 
x-ray examination in doubtful cases should always be made; (3) spas- 
tic feet, which are usually due to a definite spasm of the peroneal group 
of muscles; (4) osseous flat-foot, a condition in which bony changes 
have occurred after the arches have fallen, resulting in a rigid type of 
feet. 

Treatment of the acute foot strain consists of rest, strapping of the 
foot with adhesive plaster and a gradual return to the work causing 
the condition. 

Ordinary flat-foot is usually treated by the use of plates or supports 
worn within the shoe. They can best be treated, however, by 
strapping the foot with adhesive plaster, as illustrated in Figs. 188, 189, 



664 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

190, 191, 192, 193, and by suitable alterations in the shoes. The best 
alteration is a simple wedge of leather, % of an inch thick and tapering 
to % of an inch, placed between the layers of the sole and heel along 
the entire length of the inner side of the shoe. Combined with 




FIG. 188. Strapping of the foot. Application of the first strip, seen from the outer 
side. (From Medical War Manual No. 4, "Military Orthopaedic Surgery.") 

these changes suitable foot exercises should be given, such as the 
following : 

1. Stand with feet parallel; roll them outward, standing on the 
outer border; rise on the outer borders without twisting the legs or 
bending the knees; walk in this position. 




FIG. 189. Application of the first strip, seen from the inner side. (From Medical War 
Manual No. 4, "Military Orthopaedic Surgery.") 

2. Stand on a walk or thick board, toes overhanging the edge. 
Bend the toes over as far as possible, repeating several times. 

3. Exercise the bare feet by walking on a board tapering from the 
center to the edges by a 35 degree angle. Employees with flat feet, 



THE EMPLOYEE S FOOT 



665 



forced to stand all day should be provided with such a board which 
they can stand on at intervals several times a day. 

The rigid type of foot should be converted into the flaccid type by 
the use of alternating baths and massage repeated daily. If the 




FIG. 190. Application of the second strip, seen from the outer side. 
War Manual No. 4, "Military Orthopaedic Suroery.") 



(From Medical 



rigidity is more marked it may. be necessary to adopt forcible 
manipulation under anesthesia. After the condition has become 
flaccid it can be treated as described above or in the more serious cases 
it may be necessary to apply plaster-of-Paris dressings. 

In the spastic type it is often necessary to resort to tenotomy of 




FIG. 191. Application of the second strip, seen from the inner side. 
War Manual No. 4, "Military Orthopaedic Surgery.") 



(From Medical 



the peroneal group of muscles in order to convert this into the flaccid 
type, after which the treatment consists of holding the foot in the 
position of supination and adduction for three or four weeks by means 
of plaster-of-Paris casts. After this, strapping of the foot, proper foot 



666 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



exercises and alterations of the shoes must be carried out until recovery 
is complete. 

These conditions of the feet, which are commonly considered as 
belonging to the round of orthopedic surgery must receive the most 




FIG. 192. Completed dressing, seen from the outer side. (From Medical War Manual 
No. 4, "Military Orthopcedic Surgery.") 

careful consideration of every industrial surgeon. He should not 
consider himself qualified for his position until he has completely 
learned the various orthopedic methods necessary to overcome this 




FIG. 193. Completed dressing, seen from the inner side. (From Medical War Manual 
No. 4, "Military Orthopcedic Surgery.") 

type of disability, which has been such a source of financial loss to 
both the employee and employer. This short re"sum6 concerning the 
care of foot conditions is given in order to stimulate surgeons in in- 
dustry to meet this great responsibility. 



PART V 

COMPENSATION. INSURANCE. MEDICO- 
LEGAL PHASES 



CHAPTER XLI 

EMPLOYEES' COMPENSATION FROM THE MEDICAL 
VIEWPOINT 

In 1911, the first Employees' Compensation Act was passed. Since 
that time 37 of the 48 States of the Union have adopted similar laws. 
The rapid spread of this principle of compensation, so closely related 
to health insurance, has inaugurated a form of socialized medicine 
which is bound to extend into other fields. 

In the states where the compensation acts are best administered, 
the "shyster lawyers" commonly known as the "ambulance chasers," 
no longer carry on their nefarious trade. Likewise the so-called pro- 
fessional "expert witness" who sells his medical testimony to the 
highest bidder, is becoming less and less a frequenter of our courts. 

Employees' compensation has stimulated the growth of industrial 
medicine and surgery more than any other one thing. Employers 
have come to realize that the human body is a most expensive machine 
and must be cared for and kept in good repair. Most of these laws are 
based upon the theory that one is bound by the natural consequences 
of his acts. Therefore, if an employer hires a defective workman, as 
for example, a man blind in one eye, who later meets with an accident 
during the course of his employment and is totally disabled thereby, 
for instance, the loss of the other eye resulting in total blindness, the 
employer is held responsible for this total disability. This has caused 
many concerns to establish a system of medical examination of em- 
ployees, especially applicants for work, in order to reduce the number 
of compensable cases. Such a plan naturally has worked many hard- 
ships upon handicapped individuals seeking employment. Fortunately 
most industries to-day take a broader viewpoint of this work, and have 
made these medical examinations a definite part of the medical super- 
vision of employees. Such handicapped men are employed on jobs 
where they can still be efficient and where accident hazards do not 

667 



668 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



exist for them. In many states, however, industries are still dis- 
criminating against those workers who are unfortunate enough as to 
have physical defects, with the result that man-power in this country is 
not being used as it should be. 

The prevention of accidents is now an established fact and is due 
in a large measure to the compensation principles. 

State compensation boards are constantly emphasizing to em- 
ployers the importance of engaging only expert surgeons. Even 
though the initial cost is greater yet the quicker recoveries and the 
better functional results materially decrease the ultimate expense. 
One large insurance executive recently said, " Maximum surgical care 
gives a minimum of bad results." 

Mr. Charles F. Andrus, Chairman of the Illinois Industrial Com- 
mission elucidates this point by saying: "The Medical Directors of 
the Commission can do much to assist in encouraging employers to 
procure the proper kind of medical treatment. They may be shown 
that there is nothing more costly than cheap medical work. The 
experience of one large firm in Chicago with their medical department 
illustrates it. This Company was paying their medical head $75 per 
month and imagined they were saving money. They concluded to 
change their system and put a trained surgeon in charge. The first 
year the medical expense increased 800 per cent. In the preceding 
year this company had had 31 law suits. In the first year of the new 
system they had one suit and the Claim Department saved $30,000. 
This was accomplished in several ways. Regardless of expense, the 
men would get the proper kind of medical treatment and they were able 
to return to work sooner. The medical chief told the men the exact 
truth about their conditions and did not act as a sounding board for 
the claim agent. The consequences were that the men had confidence 
in him and the ambulance chasers did not succeed in stirring up trouble. 
They were ready to make a settlement on what the physician told 
them as they knew he was telling the truth. Taking into consider- 
ation, aside from the actual money saved, the increase of good feeling 
between the employer and the employee which is so necessary in 
modern industrial times, it may be readily seen that cheap medical 
treatment does not pay." 

The Industrial Accident Commission of California in their 1918 
report, states in this connection, as follows: "The Company with the 
closest personal scrutiny by its medical chief and the highest type of 
medical men to do the work, seems to obtain the cheapest and best 
medical results." 

The establishment of many surgical dispensaries in industry has 
followed in the wake of the compensation acts. For several years a 
few prominent surgeons have advocated the principle that the greatest 



EMPLOYEES COMPENSATION 



669 



safety precaution for an injured employee is the immediate care of his 
wound by a competent surgeon. In order to accomplish this it is 
necessary to introduce surgery directly into industry. Here again 
quotation from the California Commission is pertinent: "Frequently 
the course of a surgical case is determined by the first treatments. 
This leads to the thought that to obtain the best surgical results in 
accident cases, the injured must fall into the hands of a competent 
surgeon with the least possible delay. Furthermore, it leads to the 
thought that unless a doctor is qualified to do major surgery he should 
not attempt to handle a major surgical case, except in emergency, and 




FIG. 194. The greatest safety measure for an injured employee is immediate, 
competent surgical care. Prompt attention to eye injuries in this plant dispensary 
has reduced blindness. 

if he is not able to handle major surgery or to perform major surgical 
operations he is ill equipped to make surgical diagnosis or even to 
recognize major surgical conditions. The minor surgical case fre- 
quently develops into a major case. The less skillful the surgeon the 
more frequently this happens." 

Now that some states are including certain occupational diseases 
among the compensable conditions, industries are being stimulated to 
employ expert physicians in order to discover these diseases early and 
to establish a proper preventive program against them. 

Thus it is quite evident that the employees' compensation legislation 
in this country has advanced industrial medicine and surgery at least 



670 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



a generation. It can be irrefutably assumed that if compensation was 
extended to include all sickness, as proposed in health insurance, it 
would not only advance industrial medicine but all medical practices. 
In fact, a beneficent system of socialized medicine would rapidly ensue. 

The best plan of accident compensation has existed in a few in- 
dustries even prior to the Compensation Act. This is based upon the 
humanitarian principle that the employer is completely responsible 
for the results of all accidents occurring to employees during the course 
of their employment. Such a concern considers the repair and 
restoration of the injured employee a moral and economic responsi- 
bility just as much as the repair of a broken machine. Therefore, 
prevention of accidents, the best kind of medical treatment, no matter 
what the expense, the complete rehabilitation of all injured, and their 
re-employment in suitable work is definitely included in their compen- 
sation program. If the injured employee is deprived of his earning 
power because of the accident these concerns agree that he should go on 
receiving his full wages the same as though he was working. 

Such a policy as the above is broader and more equitable than any 
compensation law thus far imposed upon industry. Naturally, a 
concern governed by this moral responsibility, exacting as it does 
greater compensation than is legally required, is forced to carry its 
own insurance. These employers give the workman the benefit of the 
doubt and never quibble over legal technicalities involved in the settle- 
ment, as so often happens when an insurance company is making the 
settlement. 

The author had the privilege of working for such a broad-minded 
industry. During the period of nine years, only six cases were carried 
to the courts for settlement. In two of these, compensation wa& 
refused by the court because the concern was not responsible for the 
accident; in the third, compensation was refused because the disability 
was due to a diseased condition and not to the coincidental accident p 
and in the other three, the claimants were proven to be malingerers- 
This does not mean that all injured employees were given a money 
settlement, for many claimed damages who did not deserve thenu 
But both the manager and the medical staff gained the reputation 
throughout the working force of giving a square deal to all. This 
greatly facilitated the handling of these cases. When a concern adopts 
this policy it is practically compelled to employ its own medical staff. 
If the care of the injured employee is left to disinterested surgeons the 
loss of time from work usually is increased. Again if the employee 
loses the personal touch with the management he is liable to become 
dissatisfied and dissatisfaction is the commonest' cause for damage 
suits. On the other hand, the medical staff of the industry takes a 
personal interest in the employees and they in turn develop great con- 



EMPLOYEES' COMPENSATION 671 

fidence in the doctors. The company surgeon, as the representative 
of the management, is best able to encourage the injured man and to 
allay his fears regarding his rights and his future opportunities for 
employment with the concern. They are able to "counteract" the 
effect of the pernicious activity sometimes displayed by well-meaning 
friends. Thus, by having their own medical staff such an industry 
saves the time loss and the ensuing expense, as well as the expense of 
a great number of settlements. The money saved in this way can be 
used to pay full wages to the injured employees for the entire time they 
are disabled. This fair treatment on the part of the management 
develops loyalty and good feeling among the employees which also 
help in reducing the number of damage suits. There is no question in 
my mind but that this system, based upon the moral responsibility 
of the employer toward his employees is by far the most economical 
plan of compensation which can be adopted by any industry. That 
the medical expense is also reduced is borne out by the statement of 
the California Commission which says, "it appears that employers 
who carry their own insurance and provide their own medical service 
show the lowest medical cost." 

A resume of the 37 Workmen's Compensation Acts in this country 
shows many variations in the different states. There are 23 states 
with industrial boards or commissions to administer the acts; four 
states each have a single commissioner; and in ten states the courts 
administer the acts. In 23 of the states the compensation is paid 
either directly by the employer or by the insurance company indemni- 
fying .him. Nine states have state-managed insurance funds in which 
the employer may secure a policy or he can carry his insurance in one 
of the privately owned companies; thus the state has entered into 
competition with private corporations. In only five states is the fund 
from which the compensation is paid managed completely by state 
insurance boards. In these five states the rate of premium is fixed 
periodically, usually semi-annually, and depends upon the number of 
accident cases the employer has had during the preceding year. Trie 
premium rate in many of the privately managed insurance companies 
is also dependent upon the number of accidents during the preceding 
year. Naturally the rate in each case depends to a large extent upon 
the number of the employees and the hazards of the occupations. 

In some states claims are paid on the order of the court. In others 
they are paid directly from the state fund and only on approval of the 
industrial commission and in a third class settlements are made as 
required by law between the employer and the injured party and the 
claim paid direct by the former, only the disputed cases being brought 
to the commission. 

The amount of the weekly compensation varies from one-half to 



672 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

two-thirds of the wages earned by the injured party. Compensation 
comes under three classes, namely, for death, for total disability and 
for partial disability. In addition the laws in the majority of cases 
provide for medical, surgical and hospital attendance and, in fatal 
injuries, the burial expenses as well. The arguments advanced against 
the payment of full wages during the time of disability are that such 
a plan would encourage malingering; that it is an unjust burden thrown 
upon the employer as he is not always fully responsible for the accident; 
or that the employee being a definite part of industry must share 
a portion of the wage loss following an accident. It would seem that 
these arguments overlook the fact that the pain and inconvenience 
suffered by the injured workman cannot be distributed in any way 
to the employer; neither does the employer share the additional expense 
laid upon the family when the bread winner is injured. If the com- 
pensation acts would provide a more equitable weekly compensation 
undoubtedly a reduction in the number of claims for permanent 
disability would follow. 

Most of the acts fix a period, known as the "waiting time" during 
which no compensation is payable immediately following the injury. 
This waiting time varies with the different states from six days to 
two weeks, although most of the states pay for the medical and surgical 
attendance during this period. In a few states when the disability 
is prolonged beyond the waiting time compensation is then paid 
from the first day of injury. It is apparent that such a provision 
is a much greater temptation for malingering than if the injured 
party was paid full wages throughout. Very definite proof of this 
fact is found in the experience of the Federal Government, as set 
forth in the Bulletin of Labor Statistics for December, 1913. "The 
Federal statute allows no compensation for an injury not continuing 
for more than 15 days, but where the injury continues payment is 
made from the first day. This results in the denial of all compensation 
for disabilities lasting as much as fourteen days or fifteen days, but 
allowing sixteen days full pay for a disability of a single day, 
or portion of a day, beyond the waiting time fixed. An 
amendment, restricted in its application to the Canal Zone, permits 
compensation under local regulations for all work time lost, and in 
connection with these facts it may be noted that during the 1 1 months 
of 1908-09, that this law was in operation,' 55.2 per cent, of all injuries 
lasted less than 15 days on the Canal Zone, while in all the other 
branches of the service the number was 40.95 per cent, of the total; in 
1909-10, 61.4 per cent, of the injuries on the Canal Zone terminated 
within 15 days, while in the other branches 38.93 per cent, so termi- 
nated; in 1910-11, 73.04 per cent, of the employees on the Canal Zone re- 
covered in less than 15 days, while. in the other branches of the service 



EMPLOYEES' COMPENSATION 673 

the number amounted to but 39.35 per cent." During this same period 
the recoveries from disability lasting from 15 to 21 days on the Canal 
Zone during the three years 1908-11 amounted to approximately 
10 per cent, of the whole as against approximately 14 per cent, in 
all other branches of the Service for the same period. Commenting 
upon the above facts the Labor Statistician states that there is "ground 
at least for belief" that this policy in the Federal Government tended 
to prolong the time of disability. I would say that such figures ir- 
refutably prove that any law which fixes a long waiting lime and then 
provides for the payment of compensation for the full period, pro- 
viding the disability is prolonged beyond the fixed time, is a direct 
stimulus for a certain amount of malingering and even tempts the 
physician to abet the crime. 

It is very essential for the surgeon in industry to become fully 
acquainted with the different compensation acts and especially 
with the one in his own state. Practically every year the Bureau 
of Labor Statistics, Department of Labor, issues bulletins, giving a 
re'sume' of the Workmen's Compensation Laws in the United States. 
These are an invaluable source of information to the surgeon. The 
National Industrial Conference Board in April, 1917, made a very 
exhaustive study of the various acts in this country and in Great 
Britain bearing on workmen's compensation and issued a bulletin 
setting forth the results of this study. The following quotation 
taken from this report gives a concise statement of what accidents 
and diseases are included in the various acts: 

"Definitions of 'Accident.' The popular conception of an 'accident' 
is probably much narrower than the definition which that term now 
receives in the construction of compensation legislation. The fact 
is that the original conception has been greatly modified and extended 
by the adoption of broader statutory language and by administrative 
construction. The English compensation act, which served as a 
model for much of American legislation, created its fundamental 
liability by the phrase 'personal injury by accident arising out of and 
in the course of employment.' That phrase is identically or sub- 
stantially contained in the acts of Arizona, Colorado, Indiana, Kansas, 
Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Minnesota, Nebraska, New Hamp- 
shire, New Jersey, Oklahoma, Oregon, and Rhode Island. The 
qualifying phrase 'by accident' is omitted in the remaining acts, 
compensation being allowed for 'personal injury arising out of and in 
the course of employment,' except in Illinois and Wisconsin, where 
the death or injury is sustained 'while engaged in the line of his duty 
as such employee, ' and Maine, Massachusetts, Montana, Ohio, Texas, 
and West Viriginia, which omit the word 'accident' and qualify 
personal injury only by the phrase 'in the course of his employment.' 

43 



674 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

Washington and Wyoming omit the word 'accident/ the former 
qualifying the term 'injury' by the phrase 'resulting from some 
fortuitous event as distinguished from the contract of disease,' the 
latter using the phrases 'injury sustained in extra hazardous employ- 
ment, ' 'as a result of their employment,' 'while at work on their 
employer's premises or elsewhere on his business. ' 

" Effect of Modification. The effect of those verbal modifications 
of the parent act, the broad construction of which already permit- 
ted it to cover many forms of infection by disease and even remote 
effects of injury, has been to greatly extend the application of the 
act, from what are popularly considered ' accidents, ' to many forms 
of sickness and to liability for not merely the torts, but the crimes of 
fellow-employees and third persons beyond the control or reach of 
the employer. 

"British Definition of Accident. The term accident was unsatis- 
factorily defined in the first English compensation act of 1897, in the 
opinion of leading commentators, until the decision by the House of 
Lords in 1903, in the case of Fenton v. Thorley and Company 
(1903, A.C.43). In that case Lord MacNaghten said: 

' ' 'I come, therefore, to the conclusion that the expression "accident " 
is used in the popular and ordinary sense of the word as denoting an 
unlooked-for mishap or an untoward event which is not expected or 
designed.' 

" Separation of Accident and Disease in British Acts. In a further 
decision of the House of Lords in the case of Brinton's Limited v. 
Turvey (1905, A. C. 230) it was held that an infection to the eye of 
a workman from anthrax in the wool handled by him was 'personal 
injury by accident.' All the Law Lords, however, took occasion to 
expressly emphasize their view that the decision must not be regarded 
'as involving the doctrine that all diseases caught by a workman in 
the course of his employment are to be regarded as accidents.' In 
the succeeding English legislation of 1906 compensation was allowed 
for occupational disease, which was, however, made the subject of 
a separate statute in which twenty-four diseases were enumerated and 
defined, others being added thereto by an official board of physicians 
upon the approval of the Secretary of State. 

"American Variations of Accident. In enacting the identical or 
substantial language of the English statute, some states follow it 
closely as in Michigan, narrow it somewhat as in Nebraska, where 
it seems to require extraneous physical injury, or as in New York con- 
strue it even more liberally through the Industrial Commission, 
which holds it to be a compensable accident when a street railway 
process server dies from gangrenous diabetes alleged to result from 
a fellow-passenger treading upon his toes while the decedent was- 



EMPLOYEES COMPENSATION 



675 



returning to his place of employment on a street railway car of the 
company which employed him. 

"Proof of Accident. The occurrence of an accident is generally 
held to be a mixed question of law and fact, but its meaning when ap- 
plied to ascertain facts is a question of law. 

"Extension of Coverage by Massachusetts. The courts of Massa- 
chusetts point out very clearly the extensive increase of liability 
where compensation is awarded, as in that state, for 'personal in- 
jury' as distinguished from 'personal injury by accident/ 'There 
are no conditions/ says the Supreme Court of Massachusetts, 'which 
warrant a judicial interpretation of the phrase "personal injury" 
in the act as meaning the same as "personal injury by accident" 
or as excluding from the scope of "personal injuries" those instances 
where a diseased physical condition may have invited, or rendered the 
employee unusually susceptible to "personal injury." 1 The word 
'injury' in the Massachusetts statute will include whatever lesion or 
change in any part of the system produces harm or pain or a lessened 
faculty of the natural use of any bodily activity or capacity. 

"Exclusion of Disease by Ohio, Michigan, Connecticut, California 
and Iowa. Yet the Supreme Courts of Ohio, Michigan, and Connec- 
ticut have held that 'personal injury,' 'even without the qualifying 
word "accident,"' excludes occupational disease, the administrative 
boards of California and Iowa reaching the same conclusion with re- 
spect to the same language, 

" The Massachusetts View. The Massachusetts Supreme Court 
holds to the contrary, including lead poisoning as personal injury, 
and the Wisconsin Court holds typhoid fever contracted from drink- 
ing water supplied by the employer to be a 'personal injury.' It 
appears to be generally accepted that injuries are to be compensated 
irrespective of pre-existing tendencies or the subnormal condition of 
the injured workman, provided that the immediate injury, whether 
accelerating or exaggerating the pre-existing condition, proximately 
arises from the employment. 

"Causes of Accident. It is not necessary that the injury should 
arise from an extraneous cause. It may be caused by nervous shock 
without external physical change. It may result from the wilful or 
even criminal act of another, as where a watchman is wounded while de- 
fending his employer's property, or a foreman is assaulted because of the 
administration of a reprimand for doing work improperly, or a mill 
superintendent murdered by an ejected person. 

"Further Broadening of the Liability of the British Act. The 
restrictions diminished by the elimination of the word 'accident' 
from the definition of liability are yet further lessened by striking out 
the phrase 'out of and permitting liability to remain merely for in- 



676 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



juries received 'in the course of employment. ' 'Many accidents occur 
in the course of, but not out of, the employment; but I am unable to 
think of any that could arise out of, and not also in the course of the 
employment.' These words by Justice Farwell express the effect 
of the elimination of 'out of in many state acts, for it is obvious 
that an injury may be received in the course of employment while 
the cause is unrelated to such employment. 

"Elimination of 'Out of.' The phrase 'out of ' has been generally 
held to fix the cause or source of the accident or injury, while the 
term 'in the course of definad the time, place, and circumstance of 
its occurrence. Numerous decisions of the courts respecting statutes 
carrying this conjunctive phrase emphasize the fact that mere injury 
while performing a duty of service gives no claim for compensation 
unless an essential relation is established between the employment and 
the injury. This requirement, of course, fails when it is merely nec- 
essary to show that the injury arises during 'the course' of the em- 
ployment. It may thus be caused through the violence of a fellow- 
workman or a stranger, but not by 'horseplay.' The Ohio Industrial 
Commission awarded compensation to the dependents of a stenog- 
rapher because of her murder by a jealous suitor while taking the 
dictation of her employer. 

"Special Liability Suggested by Connecticut Commission. 'In- 
juries during the course of employment' are beginning to include, 
and have already by precedent included, forms of infection or conta- 
gion which are incidental rather than inherent in employment. This 
tendency, necessarily reflected in an increasing severity of physical 
examination in the jurisdiction in which it is most evident, doubtless 
inspired the suggestion of the Connecticut Commission in 1915, that 
persons suffering from inherent physical defects, making them a 
peculiar hazard, shall be permitted to make special stipulations with 
regard to compensation, subject to the approval of the com- 
mission, as a practical means of preventing their exclusion from 
employment. 

"Proximate Causes of Injury. In substantially all state juris- 
dictions the burden of proof rests on the claimant to show that the 
accident or injury recited is the proximate cause of the alleged dis- 
ability or death, but 'proximate cause under the law of negligence 
always has to be traced back to the conduct of responsible human 
agencies; under the compensation act the words "proximate cause by 
accident" in terms relate to a physical fact only, namely, an accident. 
Hence if the injury or death can be traced to physical cause not 
too remote in time or place to the accident, then such injury or 
death was proximately caused by the accident, irrespective of any 
element of reasonable anticipation. The term " proximate " was, no 



EMPLOYEES' COMPENSATION 677 

doubt, used to exclude physical causes so remote in time and place, 
or both, as to make them of doubtful value in tracing the relation 
between cause and effect.' 

"Pre-existing Disease or Injury. The view of the Wisconsin 
Supreme Court seems an excellent statement of the substantial prin- 
ciple. It applies equally to all forms of disease of physical consequence 
where there is a causal connection between them and the injury. 
Inasmuch as the employer is said to take workmen as he finds them, 
he becomes responsible for disabilities which are the direct result of 
an injury or accident aggravating a previous physical condition. 
Thus compensation is allowed for death caused through an infected 
heel blister poisoning the blood stream and causing Bright's disease, or 
death from pneumonia where the power of resistance has been reduced 
by an occupational strain, or death following an inflammation of a 
pre-existing cancer due to an accidental blow, or where a weak heart 
is impaired by the muscular exertion of the work. Where the causal 
connection is complete the principle applies, although merely ac- 
celerating pre-existing disease, or where the injury ultimates in 
insanity or suicide. If, however, a second independent cause inter- 
venes at any point the causal chain is, of course, broken and the 
liability ceases. The question is always one of fact. 

"Aggravation of Injury. The aggravation of the injury or dis- 
ability by the conduct of the workman carelessly, negligently, or un- 
reasonably preventing cure or making the condition worse is ground 
for stopping compensation. The too early use of a broken limb, 
resulting in a second injury to it, will not permit a second compensa- 
tion. A second disability produced by awkwardness or clumsiness 
as a natural result of the first is, however, further compensable. 
The prolongation of working incapacity due to the use of intoxicating 
liquors is not compensable. The Supreme Courts of Wisconsin 
and Washington have held the employer liable for death or disability 
resulting from the professional incompetence of the physician sup- 
plied by him. Death resulting from an operation necessitated by the 
original injury is compensable. 

"Refusal of Medical Instruction or Recommendation. As a rule, 
prolonged disability due to disobedience of the physician's instructions 
is not compensable. The question of whether or not a workman 
is unreasonable in refusing to submit to an operation advised by a 
physician to cure disability or save life must rest upon the circum- 
stances of the case. Thus it has been held by a high English author- 
ity that it is not unreasonable to refuse to submit to an operation in- 
volving risk of life. On the other hand, it has been held unreasonable 
to refuse to submit to a minor operation to restore the use of a finger or_ 
a hand in a skilled trade. 



678 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



"Hernia. Hernia is a special subject of decision and administrative 
rule. As a result of many difficult claims and considerable fraud the 
authoritative rule seems to be that there will be a strong presumption 
against a hernia directly arising from an accidental injury which will 
not be overcome by merely showing that hernia is coincidental with 
some exceptional exertion. Decisions respecting hernia are by no 
means harmonious. The Oregon Commission requires hernia claim- 
ants to provide affidavits establishing the non-existence of hernia be- 
fore the accident. The Washington Commission requires proof that 
hernia is of recent origin, is accompanied by pain, was immediately 
preceded by an accidental strain and did not previously exist. The 
Nevada Commission has likewise adopted strict definite rules. 

"Disfigurement. Injuries causing mutilation or disfigurement 
accompanied by disability to pursue the previous or other occupation 
have received considerable legislative and judicial attention. Nine 
states have made statutory provisions confined as a rule, however, 
to compensation for mutilation of the head or features. The acts of 
Vermont and Kentucky require that for the purpose of compensation 
mutilation must cause lessened capacity to secure employment. The 
Iowa Commission in the absence of a statutory provision held it 
would allow compensation only if it could be shown that the work- 
ing capacity was affected. The New York courts share this view, 
that of Illinois modifies it. 

"Occupational Disease as an Accident. In Great Britain certain 
forms of occupational disease resulting from infection, like anthrax, 
were held to be a 'personal injury by accident.' By later legislation 
all occupational disease is defined in a separate statute to which ad- 
ditions are made by order of the Secretary of State. In our own 
legislation there is now a marked tendency to require separate pro- 
vision for such disease and to deny it compensation as an 'accident.' 
The Supreme Courts of Connecticut, Michigan, and Ohio, have held 
their respective acts do not include occupational disease, although 
the term 'injury' and not 'accident' qualifies the statute of each of 
these states. The Supreme Court of Massachusetts, on the contrary, 
has held that the term 'personal injury' includes occupational disease. 
The construction and practice of administrative commissions indicates 
an increasing tendency to allow compensation for many forms of 
disease contracted during employment without requiring a clear 
proximate relation thereto to be established." 

The litigation of claims in the past (still existant in several states), 
involving as it did, the employment of lawyers by both sides, the 
hiring of expert medical witnesses and the expense to the state of 
providing judge and jury was one of the most wasteful practices in 
the industrial world. The poor employee, who is entitled to some 



EMPLOYEES' COMPENSATION 679 

compensation for his injuries and who found it necessary to fight 
his case through a bewildering maze of technicalities, usually came 
out at the little end of the horn after paying his lawyer and his witnesses 
their portion of the settlement. As a general rule the various com- 
pensation acts have eliminated this wasteful practice to a large extent 
but in many cases the injured employee still consults his lawyer 
and the latter pleads his case before the Compensation Commissions. 
It is fortunate that in some states the findings of the Industrial Com- 
mission can be refuted by the courts and even a jury may make the 
final decision in the case. It would seem desirable to eliminate both 
lawyers and expert witnesses as far as possible before the Industrial 
Commissions, reserving this for the few cases which must be referred 
to the courts. 

The members of the Industrial Commission are not lawyers as a 
rule and they are often easily bewildered by the legal phraseology 
or technicalities injected into their hearings by the legal profession. 
The employer can often afford to engage the services of a good lawyer 
and the employee, therefore, feels compelled to have a legal representa- 
tive, often of an inferior grade. If a medical expert is secured by the 
one, the other feels compelled to procure his expert. As a result a 
full-fledged trial with its accompanying expense to both sides is 
conducted before a lay board. 

In order to completely obviate this needless expense and to assure the 
full amount of the settlement to the employee without deducting fees 
for legal and medical experts, these commissions should act purely 
as referees between the claimant and defendant and when either legal 
or medical professional advice is needed they should obtain it from 
disinterested representative members of these professions. An 
equitable settlement could thus be arrived at in the majority of cases; 
only a small minority would need to be referred to the courts. 

The employment of medical staffs by many industrial commis- 
sions is now taking place. This practice will undoubtedly extend to 
all the commissions in the course of time. More than half the claims 
appearing before Industrial Boards involve the question of the extent 
of the disability. When the plant physician claims that the disability 
is temporary or that only 25 per cent, of the function is lost in an 
injured member and the employee or his physician claim that the disa- 
bility is permanent or at least 50 per cent, of the function is lost, one of 
the expert medical men on the staff of the Commission can examine 
the case and often arrive at a definite solution of the question of disa- 
bility. When necessary, these medical men are empowered to employ 
consultants who likewise are disinterested parties. The testimony, 
therefore, of these consultants and their own doctor form the basis 
of settlement for the Commission. 



680 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



In order for such a plan to successfully operate the Industrial 
Boards are realizing more and more the importance of employing the 
very best surgical talent of the community on their medical staffs. 
As stated by Mr. Andrus, these medical men on the Commission can 
influence employers to use only the best surgeons in their accident 
work. If a surgeon is constantly obtaining poor functional results 
in his cases and then appears before the Industrial Commission en- 
deavoring to camouflage his mistakes by belittling the employees' 
disability, both the Commissioners and their doctors soon recognize 
the facts and are in a position to point out to the employer the reasons 
for the high compensation claims he is forced to pay. 

Another advance in the administration of these compensation acts 
is seen in the increased interest which the various industrial com- 




FIG. 195. This patient who lost parts of both hands and sustained total functional 
disability from electrical burns has been fitted with artificial appliances and is receiving 
practical vocational training for a better job in the industry where he was injured. 
He was awarded total disability benefit. Compensation alone, however, would not 
assure his future. 

missions are taking in the re-employment or the rehabilitation of these 
injured employees. In this connection they are demanding better 
functional results from the surgical treatment given and they are insist- 
ing upon the re-employment of disabled men in occupations where their 
remaining functions can be used to the utmost. The California Com- 
mission "feels that the Workmen's Compensation, Insurance and 
Safety Act places an obligation on it which is not specifically defined in 
the text of the law. " That is, it feels responsible for the surgical results 
to the injured working men coming under its care. It feels that be- 
sides scrutinizing results from the standpoint of indemnities deserved, 



EMPLOYEES' COMPENSATION 681 

it should scrutinize them from the standpoint of good surgery and sur- 
gery which might have been accorded. Again we find this broader 
interpretation of the duties imposed upon the Industrial Commis- 
sion in the following remarks made by the Chairman of the Illinois 
Industrial Commission: "It frequently happens that a laboring man 
has an arm amputated and honestly considers that there is nothing 
further that he can do and that his usefulness is forever gone. The 
sta^e has not done its duty to this man by merely paying him his com- 
pensation, which is soon gone. He should be trained for other work. 
The treatment is mental as well as physical and should be a part of 
the work of the medical department. Such a man should be definitely 
trained for some other line of work in which he may be made a 100 
per cent. man. I lay emphasis upon this 100 per cent, man as that is 
the aim of the rehabilitation. " 

From the above re'sume' of the various compensation acts and the 
tendency of .the different commissions responsible for their adminis- 
tration to extend their duties along humanitarian lines it is evident 
that the surgeon in industry must have a close relationship to these 
commissions. The surgeon must realize that dependent upon the 
results of his work many things are at stake. For instance, to a large 
extent he can control the amount of temporary or permanent disa- 
bility which the injured employee must sustain; he can influence the 
amount of compensation which the employer must pay; he can directly 
increase or decrease the expenses of the state government by the char- 
acter of his service. The character of his work is not gauged by the 
surgical results only but must deal likewise with the mental attitude 
of the patient. By kindness, tact and justice the surgeon can settle 
many a claim, which would otherwise come before the industrial com- 
mission. Thus many a surgeon in industry has entered a field of 
socialized medicine without knowing it. Industrial commissions are 
recognizing the doctor's value in this work. "The character of the 
medical service rendered to the individuals who have been injured 
determines to a larger extent than would appear on the surface, the 
length of disability. The question is not only one of recovery from 
the injury with the least possible deformity; it goes further than this. 
It involves the restoration to full function which often depends upon 
complex psychic conditions. The function of the surgeon is more 
than mechanical. He must be the physician and he must be in sym- 
pathy with his patient. He must treat him as his mental endowment 
and as his mental attitude require." (Industrial Accident Com- 
mission of California.) 

Further proof of the doctor's importance in this field is seen in the 
following words from the same Commission : " The more personal the 
touch between the doctor and his patient the more confidence will be 



682 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



established and the better and quicker will be the result. The same 
theory applies equally well to the relation between the State Compen- 
sation Fund and the doctors." 

The very fact that more claims for settlements come from those 
groups of employees dependent upon insurance companies for their 
settlements and their medical service is due to the lack of this personal 
interest of the doctor in his patient. Too many insurance companies 
employ cheap medical service and have an insufficient number of 
doctors to adequately care for the employees under them. These 
conditions plus the endeavor of .the company to secure the cheapest 
possible settlement causes dissatisfaction among the injured and 
leads to injustice and misunderstanding for both parties. The injured 
employee, worried by bickering, is more liable to develop neuroses, 
especially neurasthenia. Thus, added to the increased number of cases 
requiring settlement are those cases which develop prolonged disa- 
bility. Both of these groups could be reduced by better medical care 
and by establishing the personal contact between the employer, the 
doctor and the patient. 

There are several things which the surgeon in industry must do 
which have a direct bearing upon his relationship to compensation: 

1. He must consider every case as serious from its inception. Even 
the minor cases must be recognized as potential major conditions. 
Only in this way can a careless, temporizing method of treatment be 
avoided. This implies immediate emergency treatment for all injuries. 

2. The surgeon responsible for the complete care of the case should 
take charge as soon as possible, preferably he should render the 
emergency treatment. He should carefully supervise all the details 
connected with the care of the patient and should not leave important 
dressings or other vital matters connected with the treatment to the 
internes or assistants. In no other way can he keep the patient 
absolutely satisfied, a most essential factor in all personal injury cases. 

3. Rough handling of injured employees, gruff ness, an unsympa- 
thetic manner of approach, or treating them as though they were 
"charity cases" will not reduce the number of compensable cases. 
Gentleness, cheerfulness and a sympathetic attitude are the essential 
attributes of the good accident surgeon. Dissatisfaction among the 
injured increases the amount of compensation. It leads to various 
types of neuroses; it delays recovery; and it robs the surgeon of the 
opportunity of hastening the return to work. The patient may com- 
plain of the hospital food or of mistreatment on the part of the nurse 
or interne, or other imaginary or real abuses. The surgeon should 
promptly note these signs of discontent, diplomatically learn the details 
from the patient and run down every complaint to its source with the 
view to correcting the same. A lack of interest in the patient's 



EMPLOYEES' COMPENSATION 683 

comfort is a frequent fault with surgeons. The patient may object 
to being placed in a ward and may demand a private room in the 
hospital. Usually the surgeon can remove such objections by a little 
patient diplomacy but occasionally he will find that he can decrease 
the compensation by yielding to the patient's or the family's desire. 
Often a private room and other luxuries which may have to be in- 
cluded in the treatment are cheaper than a dissatisfied patient. 




FIG. 196. An armless soldier learning to use his artificial appliance and at the same 
time receiving instruction in a new trade, acetylene welding. 

4. The best emergency treatment, constant watchfulness for 
complications and continuous active treatment until cure is ac- 
complished will give the desired surgical end-result. But, in the 
words of one of our Army Medical Officers, "surgeons must free them- 
selves from their tendency to treat the wounds and forget the function; 
to make a well man but not a working one; to take the anatomic 



684 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



rather than the physiologic point of view." In accident surgery the 
physiologic is the economical point of view. In order to attain this 
functional result the injured must be encouraged to early use the 
injured member in spite of the temporary pain and discomfort such 
use may occasion. It is often desirable to remove the patient from 
the environment of the hospital as soon as possible even though it 
may inconvenience the surgeon to a certain extent. Again recovery 
may be hastened and a workable functional result obtained more quickly 
by getting the injured party back in the industry on some light work 
even though it is for part of the day only. The injured party may 
refuse to consent to this therapeutic use of light work on the grounds 
that to return to work means the loss of further compensation. The 
surgeon must persuade the management to pay such employees their 
full wages from the time they return to this light occupation, 
even though the man is not earning them; pointing out that in this 
way his recovery is hastened and compensation for permanent disa- 
bility often avoided. 

5. Honesty and justice must be the controlling motives of the sur- 
geon in deciding the points relative to compensation. He cannot 
afford to take the side of the employer as opposed to the employee nor 
vice versa. However, both the employer and the surgeon will find 
that a generous policy toward injured employees is more economical 
in the long run. In the concern with which the author was connected 
the slogan of the management was "Give the employees the benefit 
of the doubt." Industry in the past has had many company doctors 
but these are gradually being replaced by the employees' doctors. 
Any surgeon who regards the interest of the employees will best 
be serving the interests of the company. This is the attitude, there- 
fore, which should be adopted in claims for compensation. 

6. When the surgeon is called before the industrial commission 
or before the court to testify in cases claiming settlements he must be 
guided by this same policy of honesty and justice. All the information 
which he can give which will assist the court in arriving at an equitable 
adjustment of the case should be given. The withholding of valuable 
information in order to protect the industry employing the surgeon is a 
short sighted policy. It is a mistaken type of loyalty and no doctor 
can expect to retain the respect of the management or the confidence 
of the employees by adopting such a method. 

7. Frequently the family physicians are responsible for many of 
the claims for compensation. A snap-shot diagnosis of a broken bone, 
a dislocated vertebra, a displaced uterus, internal injuries and like 
conditions, when they do not exist will give the injured party an 
exalted idea as to the extent of his injury and cause him to make exces- 
sive claims for damages. Realizing this human trait, all doctors 



EMPLOYEES' COMPENSATION 685 

should be very conscientious in making their diagnoses and very 
guarded in the statements which they make to the injured person. 
Many of the traumatic neuroses, with their prevailing disability and 
their needless compensation result purely from these false notions 
gained from the exaggerated statements of doctors. 

Many surgeons with wide experience in handling these accident 
cases feel very strongly that some of the principles of the compensation 
acts are wrong. For instance, the waiting period will often cause an 
employee to prolong his disability in order to receive compensation. 
The provision that a pre-existing disability will add to the em- 
ployer's responsibility in case of subsequent accident is wrong because 
it tends to make employers discriminate against those applicants for 
work, and even the old employees, who are unfortunate enough to 
possess some handicap. To-day many employers refuse to hire a 
man blind in one eye because they will be held responsible for total 
blindness in case of loss of the other eye. The amount of weekly 
compensation provided by the majority of the laws for the injured 
party is inadequate. Many employees are injured, not through 
their own carelessness, but because the industry has failed to provide 
the proper preventive measures. Nevertheless, this employee is 
forced to lose his total wage for at least one week and then to receive 
only a portion of his wages over a period lasting several weeks. He 
may have a large family and his earnings have hardly been sufficient 
to provide the necessities of life. After Ke is injured, hardships and 
distress are placed upon the family because of the reduced amount of 
money paid to him. The worry and dissatisfaction engendered in the 
patient's mind because of these conditions prolong his disability. 
Surgeons in industry are witnessing this almost every day and the 
various legislatures should certainly provide some more equitable 
arrangement. 

With the return of the disabled soldiers -from the present war 
the problems confronting the plant surgeon will be greatly increased. 
After the sense of gratitude and the present patriotic fervor have 
quieted down, many employers may refuse to hire these disabled men 
because of the possible increased insurance rate or the increased 
amount of compensation which may result. At present, there is a 
strong feeling that present compensation acts must be amended so 
that employers will not be held responsible for the pre-existing dis- 
abilities. A Federal law may be necessary, establishing a fund for 
the purpose of compensating that portion of the disability which is 
traceable to the employee's service in the army. That some arrange- 
ment is necessary to meet this problem is agreed by all cognizant with 
the situation. 

The surgeon, therefore, dealing with these returned soldiers will 



686 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

often be confronted with the problem of whether the man's disability 
is due entirely to some condition connected with his work, whether 
his disability following an accident is made worse because of some 
pre-existing war condition or whether the disability is only the recur- 
rence of some condition the result of his army service. Much of the 
supervision of the health and subsequent physical condition of these 
returned soldiers will devolve upon the surgeon in. industry and he 
must be awake to the situation. In this connection it is of consider- 
able interest to know how the European countries are meeting these 
problems relative to workmen's compensation in relation to the 
soldier. 

In Germany the director of the Imperial Insurance Office in 
February, 1915, said, "cripples who enter industry after discharge from 
the army will increase the dangers coincident to a trade. Owing to 
their slower movements they are more liable to danger. They also 
increase the danger to their healthy fellow workers. The number of ac- 
cidents and the burden of compensation, will, therefore, be immensely 
increased." The remedy proposed in Germany is not a change in 
the insurance law but rather a development of the therapeutic facilities 
already in operation by the accident insurance associations. The 
hospitals of these associations have specialized in the rehabilitation 
and training of cripples. It was decided to give 5 per cent, of the fund, 
of each State Insurance Office for the erection of hospitals where these 
crippled soldiers could be rehabilitated and trained for special employ- 
ment. By this method it was believed that these cripples could be 
made as good a risk as a sound man. After his employment, if a dis- 
abled soldier receives an accident he is entitled to compensation under 
the insurance law even though he is receiving a military allowance for 
the pre-existing disability. The matter of re-employing former 
workmen who have been crippled in the war has been made a patriotic 
issue in Germany. Although employment means insurance, employers 
have shown great readiness to accept the responsibility. The Fred- 
erick Krupp Corporation, not only provides employment for such men 
but gives them vocational training in a special workshop to fit them for 
a place where they can safely work. 

In France this problem of the returned disabled soldier in industry 
has already been met by an act known as the Law of November 25, 
1916. 

"This law provides, that when a person suffering a disability 
received in the present war meets with an industrial accident, the 
court which fixes the amount of compensation due him shall state, 
first, whether the accident was caused by his previous disability, and, 
second, to what extent the permanent reduction of his earning ca- 
pacity following the accident was due to his disability. If the court 






EMPLOYEES' COMPENSATION 687 

finds that the accident was caused exclusively by the pre-existing dis- 
ability (received in the war), the employer shall be absolved from all 
obligations to pay any part of the allotted compensation; and if the 
court finds that the reduction of the workmen's earning capacity 
after an accident was due in part to his previous disability, the em- 
ployer shall not be required to pay the whole compensation, but only 
that part which corresponds to the actual consequences of the accident. 
The compensation from which the employer is thus absolved shall be 
paid to the workman by the state through the Caisse national des 
restraites pour la viellesse, which shall receive the money from a special 
benefit fund 1 created for that purpose. The special benefit fund shall 
be supported by a tax on employers and insurance companies. A 
translation of the text of the law follows: 

" 'A Law concerning Persons Disabled in the War, who later become 
the victims of Industrial Accidents. Passed by the Senate and 
Chamber of Deputies, and promulgated by the President of the 
Republic. 

' ' 'Article I . Whenever a soldier, a sailor, or non-combatant attached 
to the army, suffering serious and incurable disabilities as a result 
either of wounds received in the course of war or while in government 
service during the present war, or as a result of sickness contracted 
or aggravated by the fatigues or dangers of service during the present 
war, shall be a victim of an industrial accident under conditions pro- 
vided for by the laws of April 9, 1898, June 30, 1899, April 12, 1906, 
July 18, 1907 and July 15, 1914, the decree of the president of the court 
or the judgment of the court which fixes the amount of compensation 
for his death or for the permanent reduction of his capacity for work 
must expressly state its findings with reference to the following 
points : 

" '1. Whetherthe accident was caused exclusively by the pre-existing 
disability resulting from the war. 

" '2. Whether the permanent reduction of capacity resulting from 
the accident was increased by said disability, and to what extent. 

"'In reference to Point 1, an affirmative decision of the court shall 
absolve the industrial concern from all obligation to pay any part of 
the compensation allotted to the victim by the decree or judgment; 
in reference to Point 2, when the court has decided to what extent 
the permanent reduction of the worker's capacity resulting from the 
accident was increased by the pre-existing disability. 

" 'The compensation from which the employer is thus absolved shall 
be paid by the National Pension Fund for Aged People, 2 which shall 
receive the money from a special Benefit Fund for men wounded in 

1 Fonds special de preVoyance des blesses de la guerre. 

2 Caisse national des retraites pour la vieillesse. 



688 

the war. 1 The activities of the special benefit fund shall be directed 
by the ministry of labor, 2 and its finances by the Fund of Deposits 
and Consignments. 3 

' 'The special Benefit Fund shall be supported by assessments on 
employers and insurance companies, the rate of which assessments 
shall be fixed each year by the finance law 4 according to the cir- 
cumstances indicated in article 25 of the law of April 9, 1898, in articles 
4 and 5 of the law of April 12, 1906, modified by the law of March 
26, 1908, in article 4 of the law of July 18, 1914, concerning the different 
classes of employers; and in article. 27 ? last paragraph, of the law of 
April 9, 1898, modified by that of March 31, 1905, concerning in- 
surance companies. 

" 'Article II. A decree issued after consultation with the Advisory 
Committee of the Industrial Accident Insurance Companies shall 
determine the organization and activities of the special Benefit Fund 
mentioned in the preceding article. The counsel for the controller 
of private insurance companies shall be a member of said Advisory 
Committee by virtue of his office. 

'"Article III. Temporarily, for the years 1916, 1917 and 1918, the 
assessments collected from industrial concerns and insurance com- 
panies in the application of the preceding provisions of the law shall 
be equal to a third of the assessments provided by the following laws: 

"'1. The decree of May 28, 1915, concerning factory licenses and 
operators; 

"'2. The law of December 13, 1912, concerning the application of 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of article 5 of the law of April 12, 1906; 

"'3. The decree of the ministry of labor fixing the cost of regula- 
tion and supervision of insurance companies for the year 1913. 

" 'Article IV. After the accounts of the special Benefit Fund for men 
wounded in the war have been fully audited, whatever sum may be 
left shall be deposited with the Guaranty Fund, 5 established in con- 
nection with industrial accidents by article 24 of the law of April 9, 
1898. Paris, November 25, 1916.' 

"A somewhat earlier law, passed April 17, 1916, is not concerned 
with compensation for accidents but with reserving certain positions 
for disabled soldiers. It provides that a number of government po- 
sitions hitherto reserved for non-commissioned officers with a certain 
length of service, shall during five years after the cessation of the war 
be open to disabled soldiers of all ranks irrespective of length of ser- 

1 Fonds special de prevoyance des blesses de la guerre. 

2 Ministre du travail at de la prevoyance sociale. 

3 Caisse des depots et consignations. 

4 Loi des finances. 

5 Fonds de garantie. 




EMPLOYEES COMPENSATION 



689 



vice, preference being given to men with large families; and that in 
the future no manufacturing or business concern shall obtain a con- 
cession, monopoly, or subvention from the State, department, or 
commune unless it reserves a certain number of positions to disabled 
soldiers. With regard to this law, Dr. Bourrillon, the head of the great 
re-educational center at Saint-Maurice, says that when reserved posi- 
tions are granted to disabled soldiers preference should be shown 
the most severely wounded, and such positions should not be given 
to men still capable of entering industry." 

Other laws have been proposed but have not been passed, namely: 

1. A law making vocational re-education compulsory; 

2. A law making it obligatory on employees of any number of 
workmen above a prescribed minimum to employ a certain proportion 
of disabled soldiers; 

3. A law giving to disabled soldiers the means of acquiring a piece 
of land. 

Workmen's compensation and other forms of social insurance are 
still in their infancy in this country. Undoubtedly many amendments 
to the existing laws and the enactment of new ones will follow in the 
wake of the social democracy which is developing as a result of this war. 
The surgeon in industry because of his knowledge gained from actual 
experience in handling these problems must play an important part 
in moulding these changes. 

44 



CHAPTER XLII 
COlVtPENSABLE HERNIA 

The condition known as traumatic hernia is strongly denied by 
some and just as forcibly affirmed by others. Few subjects connected 
with industrial surgery have caused greater discussions among sur- 
geons especially since the enactment of employees compensation laws 
in this country-. In Germany and England the passage of compensa- 
tion laws created similar discussions. It seems that following the 
creation of these employees compensation acts claims for traumatic 
hernias have greatly increased both in Europe and in this country. 
Some of the best surgeons have used this fact to try and prove that: 
(1) Industrial compensation commissions are biased in favor of the 
employee and are rendering erroneous and unjust claims when they 
grant compensation for this condition; (2) that employees are inten- 
tionally making fraudulent claims when they swear that their hernias 
were due to accident or extreme effort; (3) that surgeons who claim 
that hernia can result from trauma or severe efforts are unscientific 
and differ from the "decisions of established medicine." 

Surgeons who hold the above views seem to forget that these de- 
cisions of established medicine date back to the precompensation days 
and were based on the testimony of expert authority, made in the 
courts of England especially, and later in our own courts, to the effect 
that a traumatic hernia could only occur from a direct violence re- 
sulting in a definite tearing or rupture of the abdominal wall. All 
other hernias were claimed to be due to congenital defects, preformed 
sacs, and were similar to all other diseases which might occur coinci- 
dental with occupation but not related to it. Such testimony was 
sustained by practically every court and their views were considered 
as the decisions of established medicine. Any surgeon holding a dif- 
ferent view was unorthodox. It was useless for an employee to seek 
compensation for his hernia the result of occupation when these legal 
and medical forces were aligned against him. Naturally few claims 
for traumatic hernia were made, although employees in those days, 
just as frequently blamed their work for the condition as at the pres- 
ent time. 

A new viewpoint began to permeate industry during the first ten 
years of the present century. It was characterized by greater con- 
sideration of the rights of the working man by his employer, a more 
humane attitude, which took into account certain moral responsi- 

690 



COMPENSABLE HERNIA 691 

bilities not included in the purely legal obligations. No greater proof 
of this change could be furnished than the passing of the old-time com- 
pany doctor, who constantly favored the legal rights of his employer 
as opposed to the moral rights of the employee, and his replacement 
by the medical staffs, maintained by many of our best and largest 
industries, whose duties consist of health supervision, prevention and 
the best medical and surgical care of the employees. No laws have 
forced these changes; the pioneer systems of industrial medicine were 
established before the enactment of compensation laws. 

This new attitude on the part of industry is exemplified by many 
other changes. Some of the leading concerns organized mutual bene- 
fit associations in order that employees might receive at least a portion 
of their pay during a period of disability; group insurance was inaugu- 
rated by others providing insurance against death; many began to carry 
their own accident insurance realizing that thereby more equitable com- 
pensation would be granted to their injured employees; some of these 
paid full wages during disability, and a generous compensation in case 
of injury, although legally only two-thirds of the wages were required. 
Most of these concerns adopted the policy of "give the employee the 
benefit of the doubt. " Whenever an accident occurred, if there was 
any moral responsibility attached, even though legally they might 
side-step the laws, compensation and free surgical care were given. 

This policy soon extended to diseases. When a disease occurred 
which might be traceable to some occupational cause, free medical 
service and compensation were furnished, although very few state laws 
included occupational diseases among the compensable conditions. 
Certainly no responsibility existed for .the majority of cases of bad 
teeth or poor eyesight and yet several industries furnished free den- 
tal care and oculist services to their people. 

The question of legal rights did not enter into the plans of these 
industries. They recognized certain moral obligations and in addi- 
tion realized that it was good business to improve the conditions of 
their employees and thereby make them more useful and efficient. 

Among such broad-minded employers the question of whether 
there was such a thing as traumatic hernia, for which they could be 
held legally responsible, did not cause much concern. They were not 
governed by the decisions of established medicine nor of established 
law but based their decisions upon a just and good business sense. 

If they employed a man with a hernia they knew the industry 
was not responsible for it. If it grew gradually worse without any 
definite accident or excessive occupational effort it was due to natural 
causes and again they were not responsible. But if as a result of ac- 
cident or severe strain this hernia became strangulated, at once doubt 
as to responsibility entered the case and the decision was, therefore, 



692 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



rendered in favor of the employee. If they hired a man who showed 
no sign of rupture at his employment examination, but who later 
suffered an accident or a severe occupational strain and as a result the 
hernia appeared, compensation and free surgical care were given be- 
cause in the man's mind the accident caused the trouble, and because 
they recognized that to a certain extent the occupation was contribu- 
tory to the final development of the condition. 

From the standpoint of efficiency it was found that a man with 
hernia was about 25 per cent, less efficient than the man without one. 
Therefore, these concerns might refuse to employ men with a rup- 
ture but they became more and more liberal regarding the repair of 
such a condition when it developed in an old employee. 

Such was the attitude of several concerns at the time of the pas- 
sage of the employees, compensation acts. In fact these very laws 
were an expression of this new humane influence which had entered 
industry. The administration of these acts was placed in the hands 
of industrial commissions whose members were laymen rather than 
lawyers. Influenced by the generous attitude of certain industries, 
and guided by this sentiment and a consideration of moral rights, com- 
bined with their meagre legal knowledge, the decisions of these various 
commissions were often at variance to those rendered by the courts 
in the past. 

Thus employees began to seek compensation for many conditions 
which heretofore had not been considered compensable, and included 
among these were hernias which developed during employment. 

The honest employee who claimed that his hernia, which appeared 
shortly after an accident and was, therefore, in his mind due to the 
same, was not seeking fraudulent compensation. The industrial com- 
mission which granted his claim was governed only by a spirit of square 
dealing. The surgeon who recognized the pre-existing congenital 
defect, or the preformed sac, and yet testified that the accident 
must have been a contributing factor in the final development of the 
hernia, was not unscientific or unorthodox. 

The question of traumatic hernia, therefore, simmers down to three 
considerations : 

1 . A proper definition of what is meant by traumatic hernia; 

2. To what extent must an accident or an occupational hazard 
which only partially contributes to the development of a condition 
be held responsible for the same; 

3. In which cases should compensation be paid by the employer. 
The term "traumatic hernia" as used by most authorities covers 

only a small percentage of the compensable cases. These authorities 
consider only those hernias which develop immediately following a 
direct violence to the abdominal wall as true traumatic hernias. Some 



COMPENSABLE HERNIA 693 

claim that this violence must result in a tearing or rupture of the soft 
tissues thus allowing some portion of the abdominal viscera to pro- 
trude. Others state that the violence must be sufficiently severe as 
to give signs of ecchymosis and swelling with the appearance of the 
hernias. Practically all surgeons agree that hernias the result of such 
violence are very rare. Therefore, if we adopt this definition of trau- 
matic hernia and grant compensation only to this type of case, we 
have practically removed the problem from the realm of discussion. 

However, some of our best authorities such as Coley, Plummer, 
Colcord, and several others add to the above definition of traumatic 
hernia by including those cases which result from the indirect appli- 
cation of force causing greatly increased intra-abdominal pressure. 
Thus Coley says: "We would define traumatic hernia as a hernia 
resulting from the direct application of force to that portion of the 
abdominal wall at which the hernia appears, or a hernia resulting 
from the indirect application of force causing greatly increased intra- 
abdominal pressure. Whether the hernia follows the natural openings 
in the abdomen, inguinal or crural canals, or creates a new passageway 
is immaterial." Therefore, if we adopt this broader definition of 
traumatic hernia we at once admit many additional hernias to the 
compensable class. 

The amount of violence or force necessary to produce a traumatic 
hernia as above defined is another important factor in our definition. 
Some surgeons claim that a violence or force sufficient to produce a 
hernia will also produce tearing of the soft tissues, ecchymosis and 
swelling; such signs may not always appear externally but will certainly 
be found on operation, evidenced by a reddened, inflamed peri- 
toneum and swollen soft parts. Other surgeons agree that a hernia 
the result of direct violence will show these signs of injury while other 
hernias due to increased intra-abdominal pressure may not develop 
signs of a recent trauma but will always give symptoms such as pain 
and tenderness followed immediately or within a few hours by the 
appearance of the rupture. The English Court of Appeals and several 
of our industrial boards, especially Illinois, Wisconsin, Michigan and 
New York, have ruled that " where a strain causes a protrusion of 
the bowels it is a compensable injury, even though the protrusion is at 
a point weakened by congenital malformation or pre-existing hernia." 

Therefore, it is quite evident that the question of the degree of 
violence and force necessary to produce "traumatic hernia" is the 
real bone of contention. If we accept the view of many excellent 
surgeons that traumatic hernia can only result from direct violence to 
the abdominal wall, we then eliminate many hernias which are being 
compensated to-day. If we include in the above class those hernias 
which result from increased intra-abdominal pressure due only to 



694 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

indirect application of force to the abdominal wall, we extend com- 
pensation to a greater number of hernias and at once begin to confuse 
the issue. If we still further include in our list of traumatic hernias 
all those which develop from other forms of indirect application of 
force, such as a sudden strain causing greatly increased abdominal 
pressure, we have admitted still a larger group to the compensable 
class. And finally if we agree with those legal opinions which include 
all hernias developing as a result of strain, without defining the degree 
of strain, then we have thrown the gates wide open and will pay com- 
pensation to a large percentage of all hernias which develop. 

Those surgeons who claim that only the true traumatic hernia is 
compensable do a great injustice to many employees. Those industrial 
commissions which claim that all hernias developing as a result of 
"strain" are compensable, do a great injustice to the employers. Both 
views are responsible for many of the fraudulent claims made for com- 
pensation by dishonest employees. 

Traumatic hernia is a misnomer as it indicates the very small group 
of hernias resulting from direct violence. Other types of hernia de- 
velop for which the occupation is more or less responsible and are 
described by Lotheissem and other German writers as "accidental 
hernia." 

I wish to adovcate, therefore, that the term " compensable hernia" 
be adopted in this country by both the medical and legal professions; 
and further, that this term shall include all cases of true "traumatic 
hernia" and all cases of "accidental hernia" in which the force causing 
their development is directly the result of some unnatural occupa- 
tional hazard. 

Under this definition, the following would be compensable hernias : 

1. True Traumatic Hernia. (a) As a result of direct violence all 
parts of the hernia show signs of being recently formed. Such a 
hernia develops immediately, or within a very short time after the re- 
ceipt of the injury. It is accompanied with definite signs of injury to 
the soft tissues at the point where the hernia appears. 

Example. Man struck in the right groin by the sharp end of a crow- 
bar thrown forcibly by a fellow employee. Severe bruising, and 
ecchymosis resulted. Patient complained of severe pain and nausea 
and within ten hours a definite direct inguinal hernia appeared. 

(6) As a result of direct violence to some other portion of the ab- 
dominal wall an indirect force is established through the medium of 
the increased intra-abdominal pressure and causes a hernia to appear 
immediately or very shortly afterward, usually at one of the natural 
openings in the abdomen. The presence of a predisposition for her- 
nia such as a congenital defect or a preformed sac, "is immaterial." 
All that is necessary to know is that the hernia did not already exist. 



COMPENSABLE HERNIA 695 

Such a hernia may or may not present external signs of injury at 
the point of development, such as ecchymosis or swelling, but prac- 
tically always gives definite symptoms, such as pain, tenderness and 
nausea. 

Example. A boy was run over by an automobile, the wheel pass- 
ing directly across the middle of his abdomen. He was immediately 
examined and signs of severe contusion extending completely across 
the abdominal wall were found. Careful examination for hernia failed 
to reveal any sign of this condition. Twelve hours later a small in- 
direct left inguinal hernia, the size of a pigeon's egg, appeared and was 
accompanied with severe pain and tenderness. There was no sign of 
direct violence at this point but the indirect force was held responsible. 

(c) As a result of direct violence to some other part of the body 
other than the abdomen, a hernia appears the result of the indirect 
application of force which causes greatly increased intra-abdominal 
pressure. Such a hernia appears immediately or shortly afterwards, 
always at one of the natural openings in the abdomen, usually the in- 
guinal canal. Such a hernia rarely gives external signs of injury but 
as a rule causes the employee to complain of pain in the inguinal re- 
gion and often nausea, immediately following the violence. Here 
again the question of predisposition to hernia is immaterial but it is 
essential to know whether a fully established hernia was existent or 
not. The burden of proof rests with the employer, hence the impor- 
tance of careful physical examinations with accurate records for all 
employees. 

Example No. 1. A negro examined two years previously, no hernia 
present, was carrying a heavy desk with three other men. His partner 
fell thus throwing all the weight of the end of the desk on this employee. 
He immediately felt pain in his right inguinal region and became quite 
sick at his stomach. He rested for fifteen minutes and then started 
to work again. Three hours later while in the toilet he noticed a 
slight swelling in the groin and reported to the doctor's office. An 
examination showed a hernia within the inguinal canal and about the 
size of a walnut. It was tender on manipulation but could be readily 
reduced. There were no signs of ecchymosis or swelling of the tissues 
about the hernia but the former record, history of accident, immediate 
symptoms, and appearance of a small hernia, placed this in the 
compensable class. 

Example No. 2. An employee pushing a heavy, loaded truck 
slipped on an iron runway, causing him to fall forward, the weight of the 
truck adding to the force of the fall. He immediately felt a pain in the 
right inguinal region which increased when he attempted to again push 
the truck. He complained of the condition to his helper and the latter 
took charge of the truck. This employee finished his day's work but 



696 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



"took it easy." That night while taking a bath, he noticed a small 
swelling in his right groin. The next morning he reported to the doc- 
tor's office. Examination showed a small indirect inguinal hernia 
the size of a walnut. The man's record showed that he had been ex- 
amined for employment four years previously and no hernia was present. 
He was again thoroughly examined a year before this accident without 
a hernia being discovered. This record, history of the injury, and the 
fact that he complained to his helper placed this hernia in the compen- 
sable group. 

(d) As a result of any of the forces described in (a), (6), or (c), a man 
known to have a hernia or who gives a history of a hernia, suffers some 
complication such as strangulation, incarceration or hemorrhage into 
the sac. While his occupation may not be responsible for the hernia, 
yet the accident was responsible for the complication and, therefore,, 
is a compensable condition. 

Example. A packer with a known hernia poorly protected by a 
truss was helping load a heavy box on to a truck. Standing on the truck 
he was leaning over lifting up the box when the truck moved forward, 
causing the weight of the box to be suddenly thrown on the employee 
and he fell forward to the ground. He immediately complained that 
his rupture had come down and endeavored to replace it. Failing in 
this, he reported to the doctor's office where every effort was made to 
reduce the contents of the hernia but without success. The man com- 
plained of extreme pain and a short time later began to vomit. The 
swelling increased in size and after a few hours it was quite evident that 
a strangulation had developed in the hernia. An operation was per- 
formed at once and the strangulation relieved followed by the repair 
of the hernia. 

2. "Accidental Hernia" or "Sudden Hernia." This group includes 
those hernias which appear immediately or shortly after a slight ac- 
cident occurring coincidental with severe straining; or as the result of a 
severe occupational strain out of all proportion to the lifting and strain- 
ing of ordinary occupation. 

The great majority of hernias develop slowly, "the gradual dila- 
tation by mesentery of a preformed sac." The congenital defect or 
predisposition is the chief cause for such hernias and the relation of 
natural occupation or of the natural acts of ordinary life are immaterial 
in their formation. These correspond to the gradual development 
of "flat-foot" a result of faulty shoes, constant standing and walking 
or other natural causes; or to the development of tuberculosis in em- 
ployees engaged in occupations which in no wise predisposed to this 
condition. 

A small percentage of these hernias, however, make their first ap- 
pearance after some unnatural occupational hazard which is out of 



COMPENSABLE HERNIA 697 

all proportion to these ordinary or natural conditions. These corre- 
spond to the occupational diseases which are now recognized in some 
states as accidental and, therefore, compensable. These are border- 
line cases for which no hard and fast rules can be laid down. The 
individual merits of each case must be carefully considered to arrive 
at an equitable settlement. 

Example No. 1. A young man of rather slight build who had done 
nothing but clerical work, sought employment in another concern. 
He was given a physical examination and no hernia was found. He 
was assigned to the dry goods department. A month later he 
endeavored to lift a crate containing cotton goods, and weighing 
about 150 pounds, on to a shelf about the height of his shoulders. 
He tugged and strained at the load until he finally had it in place. 
He immediately felt nauseated and faint and complained of pain in 
his lower abdomen. His foreman remonstrated with him for lifting 
such a heavy package and told him to rest for a while. As he con- 
tinued to feel badly, the foreman finally sent him to the doctor's 
office. Examination showed a distinct bulging of the right inguinal 
canal which increased on coughing and straining and was accompanied 
with a definite impulse. The employee was sent home and told to 
report the next day. At this examination it was evident that the man 
was suffering from a direct inguinal hernia. All symptoms had dis- 
appeared except that he complained of a feeling of weakness in his 
side. This was considered a compensable hernia and as such was 
operated, the man receiving compensation during the period of his 
disability. 

Example No. 2. This employee, 46 years old, had not been pre- 
viously examined and, therefore, no record as to hernial condition 
existed. He was engaged in unloading large rolls of paper from a car, 
the rolls weighing 200 pounds each. One of these rolls started to 
fall from the gangway and while making an extreme effort to pull 
it back in place, the employee fell from the gangway to the ground, 
a distance of five feet. No one witnessed the accident but the 
employee immediately reported to his foreman and told him that he 
had strained his side in falling. The roll of paper on the ground 
substantiated his statements. He was at once sent to the doctor's 
office. Examination failed to reveal any signs of external injury 
and no fully developed hernia was found although a slight impulse in 
the inguinal canal was obtained on coughing and straining. He was 
allowed to return to work, the foreman being informed to give him 
light employment for the rest of the day. The next morning he 
was again examined and on coughing and straining, a small hernia 
the size of an English walnut appeared at the external ring. This 
patient complained of a low-grade pain made worse on examination 



698 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



of the hernia. He claimed that he had never been ruptured before 
and the general appearance of the hernia in a man with very strong 
abdominal muscles seemed to indicate its recent development. All 
surgeons will agree that a hernial sac sufficiently long to allow this 
hernia to appear at the external ring, must undoubtedly have been 
preformed. Nevertheless, the history of the unnatural occupational 
hazard was so definite, there were no witnesses to deny the accident, 
and the rapid appearance of the hernia during the period between 
the two examinations, all clearly indicated that this was a compensable 
hernia. 

In the first group of compensable hernias, namely, the true 
"traumatic," the question of the congenital defect or predisposition is 
immaterial as both Coley and Colcord have so thoroughly demon- 
strated. In the second group, namely, the "accidental" or "sudden" 
hernia, the decision as to the responsibility for the condition must 
depend upon two causes; the pre-existing defect and the exciting 
contributing factor that makes the hernia appear. Every bit of 
evidence which can be collected in favor of one or the other of these 
causes must be carefully weighed before deciding whether the hernia 
was due to "natural" causes or whether it was due to "unnatural" 
causes and, therefore, compensable. 

.In favor of the hernia being due to natural causes, we have the 
following : 

1. History or knowledge of a hernia already existing. This 
implies at once the necessity of thoroughly examining all applicants 
for work and all old employees, and carefully recording the presence 
or absence of hernia. 

2. History of a hernia in childhood which was apparently cured 
by a truss and had not been present for several years. 

3. Presence of an undescended testicle, hydrocele, or of lipomata 
in the inguinal canal. (Dr. Kellogg Speed in Surgery, Gynecology and 
Obstetrics, September, 1914, reports in 154 herniotomies, lipomata 
found in the canal in 47 4/10 per cent, of his cases. Plummer thinks 
this an important predisposing factor.) 

4. Presence of hernia at some other abdominal orifice showing 
a tendency for this condition. 

5. Weakness of the structures forming the walls of the inguinal 
canal. Moschcowitz lays considerable stress on this hypoplasia of the 
tissues as a marked predisposing factor to hernia. He considers this 
hypoplasia is not limited to the abdominal muscles alone but includes 
the mesenteric attachments. He assumes that if one or more of these 
structures has been weakened, either by disease or by some atrophic 
process thus allowing a sagging of the viscera to a lower level, this often 
results in hernia. He states that this is perhaps an excellent way to 



COMPENSABLE HERNIA 



699 



account for the fact that it is not the blacksmith or hard working 
laborer who most frequently acquires a hernia, but the ill-nourished 
man of sedentary habits. The experience of most industrial surgeons 
refutes this last statement however. Scherechewsky found in the 
examination of 1200 steel workers that ten per cent, had hernias, 
whereas only three per cent, of the male garment workers he examined 
were thus afflicted. Nathan Jones found approximately ten per cent, 
of hernias among the employees he examined, most of whom were 
engaged in very heavy occupations; whereas the author found only 
two and six-tenths per cent, of the employees he examined had hernias 
and sixty per cent, of this group were engaged in sedentary or light 
occupations. 

6. A large external inguinal ring is given by most authorities as 
evidence of a predisposition to hernia. Colcord states, however, that 
he examined 6000 men, taking great care to examine the condition of 
the external and internal ring of the inguinal canal. He found 500 
cases of open rings among these 6000 men. Twenty-five cases of hernia 
developed in this entire group but not one of those 25 hernias occurred 
among those with recorded open rings. He states "not one of the 500 
cases of open rings has, to my knowledge, developed a hernia." Plum- 
mer, Lauffer, Hopkins and others place great stress upon this enlarged 
ring. On the other hand, I have operated on 160 cases of hernia which 
were not present at the time of examination for employment. Large 
rings were recorded when present in each case although they were con- 
sidered immaterial. A man either had a hernia or he did not have it ; 
the presence of a large ring was not considered evidence of a potential 
hernia. In fact, the large ring enabled us to make a better and more 
thorough examination of the inguinal canal. In the 160 operations 
only one of the cases showed a recorded large external ring at the time 
of employment. I have never been able to definitely diagnose a large 
internal ring without finding a hernia present. Of greater importance 
is the bulging of the inguinal canal between the internal and external 
rings showing a predisposition to direct inguinal hernia. 

7. A family history of hernia is a strong etiologic factor in favor 
of the employee being congenitally predisposed to the condition. I 
have found several employees claiming that their hernias had de- 
veloped as a result of lifting or some other strain. On examination, 
fairly well developed hernias were found. On careful questioning it 
was learned that the father, grandfather, one or two uncles and a 
brother all had hernias. This family history combined with the 
absence of a definite unnatural causative agent forced the decision that 
such hernias were due to natural causes. 

8. The age of the patient is an important factor in determining the 
natural or unnatural cause of the hernia. Berger in an analysis of 



700 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



10,000 cases showed .that the highest hernia rate occurred during the 
first five years of life due almost entirely to congenital defects. From 
five to thirty years of age there is a rapid fall in the hernia rate. It 
then begins to increase reaching its second highest rate at the age of 
fifty-five. From fifty-five to seventy, hernias are common although 
less than one-half as frequent as in childhood. Therefore, a hernia 
occurring in children can usually be traced to natural causes; and when 
occurring in the old they are likewise most probably due to natural 
causes, chiefly hypoplastic condition of the tissues due to senility. 
Hopkins has pointed out that hernias are very common among 
foreigners especially the Greeks and the Southern Italians. It is well 
known that these foreigners develop a premature senility which un- 
doubtedly accounts for the upward curve in the hernia rate from ages 
thirty to fifty-five. Colcord accounts for these by the condition which 
he describes as presenility and believes that continued hard labor, plus 
excesses in drink, plus poor food, plus bad hygienic conditions, all 
contribute to the weakening of the abdominal walls. These conditions 
with heredity and such diseases as tuberculosis and syphilis bring on 
the presenility condition. 

9. Other etiologic factors, such as recent debilitating diseases, 
bronchitis, prolonged constipation, faulty posture, visceroptosis, etc., 
must have considerable weight in favor of natural causes for the 
hernia. Lauffer says that the exciting factor in hernia is some oft- 
repeated increase in the intra-abdominal tension and that inguinal 
hernias are always due to anatomic defects, plus these exciting factors 
except only in those hernias which develop at the point where direct 
traumatizing force has been applied. He designates only those due 
to direct violence as traumatic hernia, and calls all others "latent 
hernia" due to these natural causes. 

10. Certain conditions found on examination of the hernia would 
indicate that it was due to natural causes. For example, a large 
hernia indicates its pre-existence ; a discoloration or deep depression of 
the skin over the hernia indicates that a truss has been worn and, 
therefore, a hernia must have existed. 

11. Conditions found at the operation will often indicate that the 
hernia was of long standing and, therefore, not due to the alleged 
injury, for instance, a thickened well-formed peritoneal sac, adherent 
mesentery or intestine within the sac, two or three sacs, the "pan- 
taloon hernia," and other such signs of an old condition. C. H. Mayo 
says that heavy fibrous bands found in the hernial sac is positive proof 
of a long standing condition. 

In favor of the hernia being due to "unnatural causes," we have the 
following : 

1. Definite proof that the hernia did not exist previously. Such 



COMPENSABLE HERNIA 701 

proof may be obtained from the records of the employee's previous 
examination, or may be sworn to by his family physician or relatives. 
Frequently a life insurance examination may be referred to as proof 
of the non-existence of the hernia if examination of the insurance 
record fails to show any hernia recorded. All insurance examinations 
should, therefore, be made very thoroughly and should be considered as 
possible medicolegal evidence later on. The burden of proof of a 
pre-existing hernia rests with the employer. 

2. A definite history of an accident occurring coincidental with 
straining or of a severe effort far in excess of that which the man's 
muscular development, stature or past experience in the occupation 
should call for. Such factors would compose the unnatural occupa- 
tional hazards as opposed to the natural strains of his ordinary work. 

3. The appearance of the hernia immediately, or very shortly, 
after the occurrence of one of these unnatural exciting causes. This 
sudden appearance is usually evidenced by the employee complain- 
ing of pain, reporting the condition at once to one or more fellow em- 
ployees and seeking medical attention very shortly afterward. 

4. The examination of the hernia revealing that it is of small size, 
seldom as large as an egg, usually within the canal or just appearing 
at the external opening. Recently formed compensable hernias are 
never of large size no matter at what abdominal orifice they appear, 
except rarely in the true traumatic type. Real pain and tenderness 
on examination are usually complained of by the patient. 

5. At operation the peritoneal sac is small, very thin, and seldom 
protrudes the entire length of the canal. Adhesions of the mesentery 
or viscera to the sac are never present. Old hernial sacs are dense, 
give a characteristic pearly appearance and are often difficult to peal 
away form the spermatic chord and vessels, whereas the recent sac 
gives a less characteristic pearly appearance and can be readily freed 
from the chord. In direct inguinal hernia a definite sac may not be 
formed, the peritoneum simply bulging into the weak spot. Repair 
of these hernias can often be made without opening the peritoneum. 

6. The final decision as to whether a given hernia is compensable 
or not often must depend upon the findings at the operation. If the 
hernial sac and contents show these signs of recent development weight 
must be given to the employee's claim. On the other hand if an old 
adherent sac is found, it is positive proof of the pre-existence of the 
hernia. 

Dr. A. I. Bouffleur, Railway Surgical Journal, 1913, vol. xx, page 
421, gives an excellent discussion on traumatic hernia. He states: 
"Those who have operated, on many hernias within a short time after 
their discovery, have found that the patient's history as to when the 
hernia was produced is of absolutely no value, in that, when you examine 



702 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



one which the patient states occurred only the day before you will find 
a large patent canal, a thickened and old peritoneal surface that shows 
that it has existed for months and perhaps years. Whereas, in another 
instance you will find that there is evidence of recent injury to the peri- 
toneal tissue. 

"Surgeons employed by the Northwestern Hospital Association 
have decided to make the following arrangements with the employees : 

"'If upon examination at operation we find that the hernia is of 
congenital type or the tissues have the appearance of rupture having 
existed for a long time, you will pay for it; if the condition has the 
appearance of being of recent origin then the Association will stand 
the expense.' 

"So our experience of this problem which is the same as that of 
the Northern Pacific, where similar conditions exist, is that a hernia 
which appears shortly after a man enters the service and becomes 
entitled to benefit must have some definite evidences of being of recent 
occurrence, such as localized pain or nausea, with local evidence of 
trauma appearing within the week, or upon operation there must be 
evidence of recent rupture. " 

An entirely different view is expressed by Dr. John J. Moorhead 
in the Second Bulletin of the Transactions of American Association 
of Industrial Physicians and Surgeons. He bases his conclusions on an 
analysis of the operative findings in 150 cases of so-called traumatic 
inguinal hernia and states: "These operative findings then, confirm 
the opinion that so-called traumatic hernia subjected to the critical 
test of biopsy or anatomic dissection resembles in all details hernias 
acquired in the ordinary way. 

"This survey also indicates that injury is but rarely an aggravating 
factor, and an operator in the absence of a history of traumatism, 
would be unable to tell from the findings in the vast majority of cases 
whether or not trauma featured in any way. " 

Dr. Moorhead states that "without a weak canal and rings at birth, 
no hernia will subsequently form unless rings and canal are torn asun- 
der or weakened by some external or internal mechanism. There 
is from birth an empty sac awaiting contents, and this sac being 
continuous with that larger sac in the abdomen, will sooner or later 
seek an occupant." Such a sac is "an invitation for a resident by 
virtue of its empty loneliness." It is inconceivable to me that such 
a sac will remain completely empty during the tree climbing days of 
boyhood and the more strenuous football days of high school and col- 
lege life, and then later become filled with omentum and intestines 
from strains not half as strenuous. These congenital sacs are early 
filled with their occupant. In acquired hernia the congenital peri- 
toneal sac may not have been completely closed off and gradually 



COMPENSABLE HERNIA 703 

repeated intra-abdominal tension forces the contents into such a sac, 
but in most acquired hernias I believe the peritoneal sac is formed dur- 
ing the course of several years by being pushed downward from the 
repeated effort of the abdominal contents to enter the inguinal canal. 
At first such hernias are self-reducible, the change taking place with- 
out the knowledge of the patient. Later on when the patient is cogni- 
zant of the hernia he may manually reduce the contents but on the 
slightest exertion the sac again fills. This repeated filling of the sac 
causes a gradual development until the ordinary large acquired hernia 
is very evident. This naturally presupposes that the internal ring 
or the walls of the canal are weakened either congenitally or from some 
acquired cause. A similar weakness is present in the case of a recently 
acquired hernia following some severe strain. Examination of the 
sac, therefore, at an operation performed shortly after the appearance 
of the hernia, will show a recent bulging of the peritoneum through 
the weak spot without signs of tearing, ecchymosis or inflamed peri- 
toneum which Moorhead claims must always be present if the sac has 
just formed. 

Therefore, the author agrees with Dr. Bouffleur and unreservedly 
states that a small recently developed peritoneal sac can often be 
demonstrated at operation. 

In order to determine, therefore, whether one of these "accidental" 
or "sudden" hernias is compensable or not, the surgeon must weigh 
very carefully all the evidence in favor of both the "natural causes" 
and the "unnatural causes." If the former predominate the em- 
ployer is not responsible, but if the latter predominate he is respon- 
sible and under our present compensation acts the patient should be 
compensated. 

In arriving at these conclusions the author has given the weight- 
iest consideration to the arguments advanced by those execellent 
surgeons who claim that a true traumatic hernia can only result from 
the direct application of force to the abdominal wall and, therefore, 
only these rare hernias should be compensated. He has also con- 
sidered carefully the claims of the others that any strain or lifting 
which causes the protrusion of the abdominal contents or the com- 
pletion of that physical condition known as rupture, should be com- 
pensated as the strain was the contributing factor to the hernia. I 
have tried to demonstrate that most of the contention is due to erro- 
neous use of the term "traumatic hernia" and that the just settlement 
of these cases depends upon a careful consideration of the moral and 
legal responsibilities in each individual case. 

Thus from a medicolegal standpoint all hernias can be divided 
into two great classes, namely: compensable and non-compensable. 
The compensable hernias include: (1) The true traumatic, and (2), 



704 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

the accidental or sudden hernias developing from unnatural occu- 
pational hazards. Non-compensable hernias include: (1) The true 
congenital hernias, and (2) the acquired hernias from natural causes. 

There is an increasing tendency among many of our leading cor- 
porations, especially when they employ a surgeon, to operate on all 
cases of hernia occurring in their employ, paying the expenses of the 
operation and compensation for the period of disability. Some claim 
that they do this regardless of the medicolegal aspects of the case. 
The truth is that most of these concerns know that a hernia did not 
exist at the time of employment as a physical examination was made 
and if the applicant happened to have a hernia he was not employed. 
Therefore, when an employee develops a hernia during the course of 
his occupation and claims that some accident or severe effort brought 
on the condition, no employer can honestly state that the alleged injury- 
did not play a contributing part in the development of the hernia. It 
is the surgeon's duty to carefully analyze all such cases and to advise 
the employer which ones should be thus compensated and which ones 
are not deserving of compensation. 

The author recently analyzed from his records 135 cases of hernia 
which were found among the old employees of a concern which dis- 
played a very generous attitude toward such cases. 

One hundred and twenty of these had been previously examined and 
records showed no hernia present. Of the 15 who had not been pre- 
viously examined, 4 had had the hernias since boyhood, 8 said the 
conditions had gradually developed and 3 claimed it had been due 
to recent injury. 

One hundred of these 120 cases claimed or thought the condition 
was due to accident or thought it was caused by heavy work. Great 
weight must be given to these claims as all of these employees were 
recorded as not having hernias at previous examinations. They 
were all carefully considered by the above standards for compensable 
and non-compensable hernias. 

Thirty of these were definite compensable hernias, and were operated 
and paid compensation. 

Twenty-two were borderline cases and were, therefore, given an 
operation and compensation. 

Forty-eight were not considered compensable because all showed 
well-formed hernias, could give no definite history of some unnatural 
cause, had not reported to their foreman or to the doctor after the 
alleged strain; in other words, did not have the earmarks of a "sudden" 
hernia following some unnatural occupational hazard. Twenty-one of 
these were given free operations but no compensation. 

At the operations on the compensable cases the entire 30 showed 
small, recently formed sacs. In the 22 borderline cases only 4 showed 



COMPENSABLE HERNIA 705 

recent sacs. The remaining 18 showed signs of an old hernial sac 
which had evidently been closed off at the internal ring and was 
recently occupied by the abdominal contents, or showed small sacs 
with fibrous bands and even adherent mesentery. In these, however, 
the alleged accident had undoubtedly contributed to the reappearance 
or the completion of an existent hernial condition. 

In the 21 cases which were operated but were not considered com- 
pensable, all gave definite signs of a hernial sac of long standing. 

The average age of these 100 cases was 36 years. The youngest 
was 18 and the oldest 60 years. 

Two of the cases were in girls, -both having right indirect inguinal 
hernias. Neither of these cases had been examined previously but 
the history and indefinite statements as to cause placed them in the 
non-compensable class and this was borne out at the operation. 

The average length of employment was 4^ years. 

Forty-five were engaged in very heavy occupations, 26 in 
moderately heavy occupations, and 29 in clerical or light occupations. 

Of the entire 135 cases, 47 per cent, were right indirect inguinal, 
36 per cent, left indirect inguinal, 10 per cent, double indirect inguinal, 
3 per cent, (all compensable) right direct inguinal, 2 per cent, double 
direct inguinal, 1 per cent, epigastric, and 1 per cent, femoral. 

My analysis has been limited to this small number of cases because 
all fall within that group which has caused so much discussion among 
surgeons, namely, the "accidental" hernias and the borderline cases, 
with rather indefinite history of causal factor, and occurring among 
employees who had been previously examined and were recorded as 
having no hernias. 

After examining several thousand cases of hernias and after operat- 
ing several hundred, I have only seen five cases of true traumatic 
hernia due to direct violence at the point where the hernias developed. 
(1) In one, the man was struck in the groin by a crowbar; (2) a brake- 
man was crushed between the bumpers of two cars and a ventral 
hernia appeared; (3) a man was running through the aisle at fire 
drill and struck his left inguinal and scrotal region against a truck 
handle. A large contused area, swelling and hemorrhage into the 
scrotum immediately followed. Within three days a definite left, 
direct inguinal hernia appeared; (4) a pregnant woman was kicked 
in her left lower abdomen by her husband and very shortly a ven- 
tral hernia appeared and naturally increased in size as pregnancy 
developed ; (5) a cowboy came to my clinic with two enormous oblique 
inguinal hernias. He gave a history of some two years previously 
having had a horse, he was riding, rear and fall over backward 
pinning him beneath the saddle. The pommel of the saddle had 
crushed into his lower abdomen. Immediately there was bulging 

45 



706 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 






in both groins and these continued until they had reached the pres- 
ent size. The man denied any sign of rupture previous to the accident. 
It is quite evident that even in those cases of inguinal hernia 
following direct violence, some doubt will always exist as to the possible 
presence of a congenital predisposition for hernia. 

Industrial Commissions all 
over the country are depending 
on the surgeons in industry to 
arrive at a just and equitable 
decision concerning this subject 
of compensable hernia. It be- 
hooves us to drop the time- 
worn discussions about "trau- 
matic hernia" and to tell them 
just what types of hernia should 
be compensated and what ones 
should not. 

The first essential is" to make 
a careful physical examination 
of all employees and to record 
those who have real or potential 
hernias. Whenever a hernia 
develops in one of these em- 
ployees, who was recorded not 
to have a hernia, a careful 
analysis of his case must be 
made to determine: (1) was it 
entirely due to pre-existing de- 
fect? (2) was it .entirely due to 
some severe direct or indirect 
violence? (3) was a latent con- 
dition already present and only aggravated by the unnatural occupa- 
tional hazard? (4) was it due entirely to natural causes? (5) or 
was it due to a combination of all of these, and if so, which was the 
most responsible? 

Every surgeon must then keep a careful record of his methods 
of determining these points. Whenever one of these hernias is 
operated a careful description of the condition of the sac and contents 
must be made with a view of determining which are the recently formed 
hernias and which are old conditions. 

From all these records it will be possible to standardize definite 
methods of justly deciding which are the compensable hernias. 




FIG. 197. Double traumatic hernia fol- 
lowing crushing 'injury, claimed to have 
resulted from horse falling on patient. 



CHAPTER XLIII 
THE COINCIDENCE OF ACCIDENTS AND DISEASE 

Accidents often occur to employees who are suffering from some 
existing disease or who have some pre-existing disability. These 
coincidental conditions present many perplexing problems to the surgeon 
in industry. He must determine to what extent the accident is 
responsible for the disability and to what extent the diseased condition. 
He must decide whether or not the pre-existing condition was ag- 
gravated by the accident or whether the injury was complicated 
by the already existing disease. A very minor accident may occur and 
a few days later the employee may die, the result of some other patho- 
logic 'state. A claim may be filed by the family for compensation 
for this death and here the surgeon is confronted with the problem 
of whether or not the minor accident was a contributing factor or 
merely coincidental. 

The author has faced these problems many times and the manage- 
ment has voluntarily settled the cases on the decision arrived at by 
their surgeon. In every instance where there was a possibility of the 
accident being responsible the employee was given the benefit of the 
doubt. On the other hand, if the surgeon was convinced that the man- 
agement was not responsible in any way the claims for disability 
were refused and in the very few cases which went to court the deci- 
sion of the surgeon was always sustained. 

These coincidental conditions can best be illustrated by the fol- 
lowing case reports: 

Case 1. F. T. (male 23 years old) employed as a packer, had 
worked regularly at this job every day for the past year. On May 
21, 1914, he stumbled over a box while employed and fell forward, 
striking the floor with his outstretched hands. He immediately 
felt pain in his right wrist and had all the symptoms of a sprained 
wrist. He reported to the doctor at once. The wrist was x-rayed 
and the laboratory reported a linear fracture of one of the small 
bones in the wrist. Plaster splint was applied and the employee al- 
lowed to go home. Recovery seemed to progress favorably for four 
days when suddenly the wrist began to swell. It was again x-rayed 
and this time the roentgenologist noted that two of the bones showed 
some change. Both wrists were then x-rayed on the same plate 
and at the same time. A comparison of the two showed decreased 

707 



708 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



density in all of the bones of the right wrist. The first plate was then 
carefully re-examined and what had been considered a fracture was 
found to be a small area of necrosis in the bone. A diagnosis of 
probable tuberculosis of the wrist was made and fixation treatment 
continued. A week later the x-ray showed definite necrosis of two 




Fia. 198. Tuberculous wrist joint discovered few days following' injury to wrist. 

of the bones and the others were beginning to lose their clear outline 
(see Fig. 198). In spite of complete immobilization of the wrist 
and keeping the patient quiet in bed the diseased condition progressed 
rapidly and within a month there were signs of fluctuation about the 
joint. After consultation it was decided that active operative treat- 





FIG. 199. Same as Fig. 189, a month later. 

ment was indicated; the joint was opened and all of the bones curetted 
out. Drainage was established and irrigations of weak iodin solution 
were given. The wrist was immobilized so as to give the best func- 
tional result on recovery. At the end of three months the wound 
had practically healed. Two months later this patient showed the 



THE COINCIDENCE OF ACCIDENTS AND DISEASE 709 

early signs of pulmonary tuberculosis and was sent to a sanitarium 
in New Mexico where he remained for eight months. He returned 
in excellent condition, all signs of the pulmonary trouble having dis- 
appeared. He had been using his right wrist for the last three months 
and to our surprise had considerable motion. The x-ray showed no 
signs of the tuberculous bone disease. At the end of thirteen months 
this employee was back at work. Realizing that it would be dangerous 
for him to return to heavy manual labor we had stimulated him to 
study along clerical lines so that on his return he was placed at clerical 
work. A year later this wrist showed signs of swelling and he com- 
plained of some pain. The x-ray showed no pathologic change in the 
joint but nevertheless it was immobilized and he was given a three 
months' rest in the country. The symptoms disappeared and thus 
far no further trouble has been noted. 

In this case we had to deal with an accident to a wrist-joint, un- 
doubtedly the seat of an already existing disease. The fact that the 
employee had noticed no trouble in the joint prior to the accident 
and yet almost immediately following it the diseased condition became 
acute caused the surgeon to decide that the accident was responsible 
for lighting up a pre-existing condition. It was impossible to state 
definitely to what extent the accident was responsible for his dis- 
ability and to what extent the tuberculous condition should be held 
to blame. On the strength of this statement the management assumed 
complete responsibility and paid this employee his full wages during 
the entire length of his disability, including the three months he was 
absent from work a year later. 

Case 2. V. B. (male 26 years old) employed as a gas fitter, 
bruised his left forearm on a gas pipe. He showed the injured member 
to his foreman but objected to reporting to the doctor when this course 
was suggested to him. The foreman, thinking the condition trivial, 
did not insist upon his reporting. A week later he came to the doctor's 
office, complaining of swelling of the forearm and inability to use the 
member. It was immediately x-rayed and the radius was found to 
be thickened throughout its entire length. The condition was recog- 
nized as one of an old osteitis and could not possibly have been the 
result of the slight accident which he received. The patient denied 
any pre-existing disease in this arm. A Wassermann was taken 
but was negative. From the patient's brother the name of the family 
physician in the country was obtained. On inquiry by letter this 
doctor replied that he had treated the patient several years previously 
for a swelling of the forearm which he thought at the time was an 
osteomyelitis, but which recovered without operative interference. 
When Mr. B. was confronted with this evidence he replied that he 
had forgotten about that illness. He was told that he had better 



710 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



return to work as the condition of which he complained had existed 
for many years and had no connection with his accident. He 
followed this advice and made no claim for the two weeks' loss of time. 

In this case the management was advised that the accident and the 
pre-existing condition were merely coincidental and that the former 
had not been sufficiently serious to cause disability. The author has 
seen three cases somewhat similar to the above. Following a slight 
accident there was noted a thickening of the bone in the injured 
members. .X-ray showed in each case a syphilitic osteitis and in each 
the Wassermann was positive. In two of these cases the condition 
completely cleared up under syphilitic treatment. In none of them 
was the injury held in any way responsible as the diseased condition 
had undoubtedly existed prior to the accident and was not aggravated 
by it. 

Case 3. T. J. (male 44 years old) employed as a packer, was 
struck on the right thigh by a heavy box. A considerable contused 
area resulted and was treated in the doctor's office at once. Two 
months later he reported because of a large swelling in the thigh at 
the point of injury. A tumor mass could easily be palpated and an 
operation was performed. A tumor about the size of a lemon was 
removed. . The pathologic report stated that this was a syphilitic 
gumma. A Wassermann was then made and found to be 3 plus 
positive. Syphilitic treatment was instituted at once. 

In this case it was decided that the accident had aggravated an 
existing disease. Besides the surgeon had performed an operation 
upon the patient which might have been avoided by proper syphilitic 
treatment. Full disability claims were paid to this employee. 

Syphilis is one of the commonest conditions which complicate 
accident cases. Careful diagnosis is always necessary to determine 
whether the accident is responsible for the disability or whether 
this pre-existing disease is solely responsible, the accident merely being 
a coincidence. 

Case 4. F. H. (male 18 years old) employed by this concern for 
two weeks when he reported to the doctor's office with his right arm 
fractured near the shoulder joint. The history of the case was pe- 
culiar. He had been pushing a small truck through the aisle when he 
collided with another small truck. He felt something crack in his arm 
but felt no pain. He was unable to raise the arm after this accident. 
X-ray examination showed a pathological fracture due to a bone cyst 
which involved the upper four inches of the humerus. 

The condition was carefully explained to the management and it 
was felt that, while there might not be any legal responsibility, yet the 
fact that this boy had been employed after a physical examination and 
thetf met with a slight accident while at work resulting in the fracture 



THE COINCIDENCE OF ACCIDENTS AND DISEASE 711 

of an already diseased arm, there was a certain amount of moral re- 
sponsibility involved. Full wages were paid during the entire length 
of his disability. An operation was performed in this case and a bone 
transplant, seven inches long, taken from the tibia was inserted. Only 
a shell of the head of the humerus remained after the bone cyst was 
removed and the transplant was held firmly against this shell by sutur- 
ing the soft tissues about it. It took six months for this case to recover 
sufficiently to return to light work. At the end of a year the bony 
defect was completely filled in and had practically regained the normal 
contour of the humerus. Perfect function was obtained in this case 
(see Figs. 173 to 176). 

During his stay in the hospital he was persuaded to take up certain 
studies and after he returned to light work he attended ni^ht school, 
learning stenography and book-keeping. 
He stayed with the concern for a year after 
his recovery and then accepted a position 
with- a bonding house where he has de- 
veloped into a successful bond salesman. 
This boy was the son of very poor parents 
and was surrounded by poor environment. 
They were in no position to stand the ex- 
pense of a law suit and if any other course 
had been pursued by this concern the slight occupational injury had 
chances are that this boy's future would empfove* responsible? 
have been jeopardized. 

Case 5. D. R. (male 21 years old) employed one year as a ship- 
ping clerk, was struck in the right side of his chest near the spine by a 
box weighing about 25 pounds, which was pitched by a fellow employee. 
He was immediately sent to the doctor's office although not complain- 
ing of severe injury. Inspection showed a small abrased area. 
This was dressed and he returned to work. The next day he reported 
for a dressing and was seen by the chief surgeon. This man's general 
appearance was not good; he was underweight, hollow-chested and 
rather pale. On questioning him, he stated that he had lost consider- 
able weight during the last six months but no other symptoms were 
elicited. A thorough examination was at once made and revealed the 
signs of an early pulmonary tuberculosis, the diagnosis of which was 
proven by finding tubercle bacilli in the sputum. The wound was 
.practically healed and needed no further attention. However, follow- 
ing the usual custom of this concern, the boy was told of his lung 
condition, and was sent home. A nurse called that afternoon and 
asked his mother to come in to see the chief surgeon. The next day 
she called and the boy's condition was carefully explained to her. She 
was told that the slight accident which he suffered had no relation to 




712 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



the tuberculosis, but, following its usual procedure, the management 
was willing to pay this employee's expenses at a sanatorium until the 
lung condition had been arrested or cured. The mother's consent was 
gained and the patient was sent to Edward's Sanatorium, Naperville, 
111. Eight months later he returned with the disease arrested. He 
was advised, however, both at the sanatorium and at the office to 
continue his treatment at home for two months longer and not to 
return to work. Three weeks later the management received notice 
from a lawyer that this patient had entered suit for permanent dis- 
ability due to pulmonary tuberculosis and Pott's disease, both of 
which were the direct result of a serious accident received while 
in their employ. After many diplomatic maneuvers the chief surgeon 
finally persuaded the patient's lawyer and doctor to consent to a con- 
sulation in order to ascertain whether or not the Pott's disease was 
present. This consent was gained on the grounds that we would 
consider the blow from the box a contributing factor to Pott's disease 
if the condition had developed at or near the site of injury, but we 
would not consider the accident in any way responsible for the pul- 
monary tuberculosis. At the consultation and with the aid of the best 
z-ray experts in the community we were able to disprove the presence 
of Pott's disease. Claim for disability on account of pulmonary 
tuberculosis was made, however, and the case went to trial. We had 
no difficulty in proving that a pulmonary tuberculosis which at no 
time presented any acute symptoms and which was discovered the day 
following the accident was never caused by, nor aggravated, by this 
injury. The court further observed that the concern had been very 
generous in its treatment of D. R. by offering him the opportunity of 
being cured of a tuberculous condition for which they were not 
responsible. 

Case 6. H. B. (male 26 years old) reported to the doctor's 
office with his right heel severly bruised as a result of being struck by 
a truck. This man's general appearance was not good and a thorough 
examination was immediately made. Pulmonary tuberculosis in 
the second stage was diagnosed and was confirmed by numerous 
tubercle bacilli in the sputum. Within a week he had recovered from 
the injury to his heel. This man was likewise given free sanitorium 
treatment because of his lung condition, although the concern was in 
no way responsible for it. Four months later we were notified by the 
sanitoriunrs physician that this patient's right foot and ankle were 
badly swollen. He was sent back to the city and placed in a hospital. 
-XT-ray examination showed a condition of tuberculosis of the right 
ankle-joint. The foot, ankle and leg were placed in a plaster cast 
and the patient was returned to the sanitorium where he was kept 
completely at rest. The cast was changed every three weeks. He 



THE COINCIDENCE OF ACCIDENTS AND DISEASE 713 

was kept in the sanitorium for fifteen months at the end of which 
time the pulmonary condition was arrested and signs of the disease 
in the ankle-joint had disappeared. 

The surgeon held that the management was responsible for the 
tuberculous condition in the extremity because a severe injury had 
occurred to the heel and ankle of a man already suffering from 
pulmonary tuberculosis and, as a result of the injury the resistance 
of the part was lowered and made possible the extension of the disease. 
An insurance company might have fought this case and brought 
up legal barriers to any claim of disability. However, there was 
undoubtedly a moral responsibility involved and, without any claims 
for disability on the part of the patient, the concern voluntarily 
assumed this obligation. 

Case 7. This was another case of tuberculosis of the bone. This 
patient was struck by a heavy plank just above the right knee. On 
examination a severe contusion was found. There were scars of a 
previous diseased condition about the hip and over the entire length 
of the right femur. The history of the case showed that this patient 
had suffered from tuberculosis of the hip and the femur during his 
boyhood, some twenty years previously. Four weeks after the injury 
the patient developed considerable swelling in the lower thigh, pain 
and tenderness and a low grade temperature. .X-ray showed necrosis 
involving the greater portion of the lower third of the thigh. He 
was operated upon and three weeks later a second operation was 
necessary. Almost a year elapsed before this patient recovered. 
At no time were the symptoms acute but were those of a chronic 
osteomyelitis, evidently of a tuberculous origin. The accident was 
held responsible although undoubtedly the pre-existing disease was 
the chief contributing factor. Full compensation was paid this man. 

Case 8. Miss B -28 years old a three weeks' employee, fell 
from the second step of a stepladder striking on her buttocks. Ex- 
amination failed to reveal any sign of injury although the patient was 
very hysterical and nervous from the moment of the accident. A 
vaginal examination was not made. Two weeks later this young lady 
entered claim for disability on account of a retrodisplacement of the 
uterus and a dislocated coccyx. She had consulted a lady physician 
who had examined her vaginally and made this diagnosis. The patient 
was able to be up and around but had not returned to work. At first 
both the patient and her doctor refused to allow the company surgeon 
to make an examination. Finally the surgeon called on the family 
physician and explained to her that if these conditions were present 
the concern would pay full compensation. Since she was so positive 
of her findings it was suggested that she call in a consultant and the 
surgeon would call in a consultant and the four would make a complete 



714 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



examination of the case at the same time and decide what pathologic 
condition, if any, existed and to what extent the accident was respon- 
sible. This plan was carried out and neither of the two consultants 
nor the company surgeon were able to 'find any signs of a retroversion 
or of a dislocated coccyx. It took two weeks, however, to persuade 
the patient that she was only suffering from the mental suggestion 
of her doctor and no real condition. After she returned to work she 
was given her full wages for the four weeks lost time as the accident 
had made this comedy of errors possible. 

The author has been able to stop many claims for compensation 
by this plan of arbitration by two consultants, chosen one by the 
family physician and one by the company surgeon. Usually when , 
four doctors thus get together each feels it a matter of pride to make 
a correct diagnosis without at the time considering its bearing on 
compensation. If such a policy were universally adopted' many 
damage suits could be equitably settled by the doctors without the 
expense and wrangling injected into the case by placing it in the 
hands of lawyers. 

Case 9. Medical cases, as well as surgical, present many of the 
above difficulties. P. G. (male 48 years old) a printer, working for 
the concern some six years, reported to the doctor's office because of 
dizziness, shortness of breath and general weakness. The examination 
showed a blood-pressure of 180 degrees and albumen, hyalin and 
granular casts, in the urine. All reflexes were reported as normal 
at this examination. A diagnosis of chronic interstitial nephritis 
was made. This man was granted a six months' leave of absence on 
full pay. At the end of that time he was dropped from the pay roll. 
He belonged to the Printers Union and was entitled to a small weekly 
benefit for quite a period from them. A short time -after this the 
management was notified by the wife that her husband was in the 
hospital under treatment for lead poisoning and that his occupation 
as a printer was responsible for the condition. She entered claims 
for disability and threatened suit unless these were paid. The chief 
surgeon arranged for a consultation with the doctors in charge of this 
case at the hospital. The history, which his doctors had obtained 
stated that the patient had been suffering paroxysms of abdominal 
pain for the last four months. He had grown progressively weaker and 
had developed paresis of his left leg. There was a mild foot-drop 
on the left side. Severe constipation was present and the urine ex- 
amination showed a low grade nephritis. The laboratory report 
showed basophilic degeneration of the red cells, with a marked second- 
ary anemia. The Wassermann test was negative. 

The above findings, coupled with the fact that this man had been a 
printer, and exposed to lead during the last six years had caused his 



THE COINCIDENCE OF ACCIDENTS AND DISEASE 715 

physicians to make the diagnosis of lead poisoning and in their judg- 
ment they were honestly justified in advising the man's wife that his 
employment was responsible for the condition. 

The chief surgeon proceeded to make a thorough examination from 
head to foot. He found all of the conditions described above, but 
in addition a decided ankle clonus was present; the Babinski sign 
was positive; and a typical saddle anesthesia was discovered. After 
having demonstrated these signs to his physicians consent was obtained 
to make a spinal puncture and have a Wassermann test made on the 
spinal fluid. This was done and half of the fluid removed was sent 
to the laboratory at this hospital and half of it was taken to one of the 
expert laboratory men of the city. The report from both showed a 
very decided Wassermann reaction in the spinal fluid. A diagnosis 
of syphilitic spinal meningitis was made and was agreed to by the 
patient's physicians. The patient died a month later but before 
his death he confessed to his wife that he had contracted syphilis 
before they were married, although in all the histories taken of the 
case he had denied this infection. It was not until this confession 
was made that the wife was satisfied that his occupation was not 
responsible. 

This case very aptly illustrates this problem of coincidental diseases. 
The doctor on the staff of this industry, who examined the patient 
first, failed to discover the syphilitic condition because after a routine 
examination he was able to make a diagnosis, namely, chronic nephritis. 
Later the physicians who attended this patient felt that they had 
worked up the case very thoroughly and found a sufficient number of 
symptoms, combined with the history of the employment of the patient 
as a printer to enable them to make a diagnosis of lead poisoning. 
They were very honest and efficient physicians. However, before 
any doctor makes a diagnosis or a statement which involves claims 
for large damages against any industry he should be mighty sure of 
Ms grounds. These coincidental diseases which are usually the specific 
causes of the disability can only be discovered by going over every 
case with a "fine tooth comb." 

Strained Backs. Employees complaining of strained backs fol- 
lowing overlifting, sudden twisting of the body, falls and like condi- 
tions furnish the best examples of slight accidents coincidental with 
a diseased condition. These cases are often the most difficult to 
determine the exact responsibility, and when it is decided that disease 
is the underlying cause it requires the most convincing arguments to 
persuade the employee that it is not the result of some strain. 

The histories of these cases are quite similar. An employee reports 
to the doctor's office complaining of severe pain in his back. He is 
often slightly bent forward and both hands are pressed into the small 



716 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



of his back. While talking he will catch his breath due to a sudden 
paroxysm of pain in the back. He states that when he left home that 
morning he was perfectly well but after working awhile he tried to 
lift a heavy box, or some other object, and must have strained his 
back, for a sudden pain struck him and he couldn't straighten up. Or 
he will tell of twisting his body while exerting himself and the strain 
of the back resulted. 

It is peculiarly characteristic of these cases that if they are consid- 
ered as injuries and, therefore, compensable, they will have a prolonged 
period of disability. Whereas if the true nature of the condition is 
discovered at once and they are treated as diseases the period of 
disability is greatly shortened. 

A thorough physical examination should be made at once of all 
such back cases. A special search should be made for foci of infec- 
tions in the teeth, tonsils, prostate, and about the nails. The urine 
should always be examined. Signs of rheumatism in other parts of 
the body should be sought. An x-ray examination will occasionally 
show a chronic arthritis about the spinal vertebrae, especially at the 
sacro-iliac joints. Careful questioning will often bring out the fact 
that similar attacks have occurred. 

The nature of the alleged accident should likewise be thoroughly 
investigated. Was the overlifting or twisting of such a nature as to 
result in a strain of the muscles of the back or to actually tear some 
of the intervertebral ligaments? When an accident is responsible 
for the back condition usually it causes a direct injury to the soft parts 
over the hack, as a contusion from a fall, or it is of a sufficiently serious 
nature as to cause a strain to anyone subjected to a similar accident. 

By weighing the evidence thus collected the surgeon can usually 
decide whether the condition is a lumbago, myositis, neuritis or typical 
rheumatism due to conditions already existing in the patient's body; 
whether the accident was the sole cause of the trouble; or whether 
there was an existing predisposition and the alleged accident aggra- 
vated the condition. In the majority of instances these cases will be 
found to be due to disease and the slight strain is in no way responsible 
except as "an alarm clock which suddenly awakens the dormant 
condition." 

Ah 1 of these facts must be patiently and tactfully explained to the 
employee. He must then be persuaded to have the focus of infection 
removed, or the diseased condition treated. 

I have seen many recurring attacks of so-called strained backs in 
employees which promptly yielded to tight strapping with adhesive 
plaster and a few days rest. After these employees submitted to 
dental work or to the removal of diseased tonsils the attacks prac- 
tically always ceased to recur. 



717 

During one year 156 employees reported to the doctor's office on 
account of strained backs due to alleged accidents. In one of these 
there was a definitely bruised back and the general examination was 
negative. In twenty the nature of the extreme effort, or exertion or 
fall was such as to justify straining of the back and they were con- 
sidered compensable cases. In only eight of these were mild foci of 
infection found, the remainder being apparently free of infection. 

The remainder were diagnosed as follows and gave the following 
findings of preexisting infections: 

(1) Lumbago ............................... g2 

(a) Pyorrhea ..... ....................... jg 

(6) Abscessed teeth ........................... 32 

(c) Extremely bad teeth .......................... 3 

(d) Diseased tonsils and teeth ..................... 10 

(e) Diseased tonsils ............................. 10 

(/) Acutely inflamed tonsils * .................... 1 

(g) Acute "colds" ........................ ............. 8 

(h) Acute gonorrhea ................................. 1 

(i) Chronic gonorrhea .......................... 2 

(/) Nephritis ...................................... 1 

(2) Strained (?) back with other conditions ............................... 8 

(a) Flat feet ............................................... 6 

(6) Diseased tonsils .......................................... 2 

(3) Myositis .................................................... 3 

(a) Bad teeth ............................................. 1 

(6) Diseased tonsils and teeth ................. .................. 1 

(c) Influenza .................................................. 1 

(4) Neuritis and myositis ............................................... 4 

(a) Bad teeth ................................................. 1 

(6) Diseased tonsils ............................................ 2 

(5) Rheumatism ...................................................... 13 

(a) Diseased tonsils ......... ................................... 4 

(6) Bad teeth and tonsils ........................................ 2 

(c) Pyorrhea .................................................. 1 

(6) Sacro-iliac arthritis ................................................. 2 

(a) Bad teeth ................................................. 1 

(b) Diseased tonsils ............................................ 1 

(7) Sciatica ........................................................... 3 

(a) Diseased tonsils ............................................. 1 

(b) Flat feet ....................... ........................... 2 

(8) Miscellaneous ..................................................... 20 

(a) Slight strain ............................................... 10 

(6) Rheumatic tendency ....................................... 2 

(c) Not diagnosed, history obscure, no findings, lost no time ........ 8 



These 156 cases lost 511% days from work. Every one of the 
cases with teeth trouble had dental work performed under the super- 
vision of the plant dentist. Twenty of these employees submitted 
to removal of the diseased tonsils. The flat-foot cases had their arches 
strapped and suitable shoes and arch supports were secured. 






718 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

These figures prove the value of thoroughly searching for the cause 
in all cases of so-called strained back. Otherwise much loss of time 
from work will ensue and many of these employees will become the 
typical "back-neurotic" requiring many weeks of compensation. 

Many other cases could be quoted, illustrating the problems 
presented when accident or disease is complicated by some coinci- 
dental pathologic condition. No definite rules can be laid down for 
determining the responsibility for disability resulting in such cases. It 
is usually impossible for any physician to honestly divide this responsi- 




FIQ. 201. A lymph-edema of the hand and arm following a slight scratch, from a 
pin, while at work. At first a mild infection developed which was incised and drained. 
The above condition followed and persisted for over a year. Under hot dressings it 
would disappear to recur again in a week or two. A month after the accident a Was- 
sermann test was made and was positive. Antisyphilitic treatment was given and in 
four months all Wassermanns were negative. The condition resisted every line of 
treatment and finally seemed to disappear spontaneously. Undoubtedly a coincidental 
condition existed in this case, but following an accident as it did the concern was held 
responsible. 

bility, assigning a certain percentage to the accident and a certain 
percentage to the associated condition. Each individual case must be 
carefully analyzed and these questions must be settled by considering 
both the moral and legal aspects involved. 

Industrial compensation commissions will find these questions, as 
well as other medical problems, can best be solved by disinterested 
medical consultants rather than by lawyers. Therefore, every such 
commission should have its staff, consisting of the best medical and 
surgical talent, in order that the greatest justice may be done both the 
employer and the employee. 



CHAPTER XLIV 
OTHER TRAUMATISMS WITH MEDICOLEGAL ASPECTS 

With the tendency of large corporations to depend more and more 
on the decisions and statements of their surgeons as to the compensable 
nature of various accident cases it is very essential for every surgeon in 
industry to develop a medicolegal sense. In fact such a sense, if 
acquired by all physicians, would undoubtedly reduce the claims for 
compensation materially, for the exaggerated statements of doctors to 
their patients are the commonest causes for exaggerated claims. 

Many state compensation laws permit of the settlement of claims 
between the employer and employee without a hearing before the boards, 
a receipt of the amounts of compensation paid being all that is required. 
Only disputed claims, therefore, come before the industrial board. In 
such states the medical profession and especially surgeons connected 
with industry, or with insurance companies, have a great responsi- 
bility placed in their hands. They at once become the judge and jury 
in many injury cases and on their honest decisions depend the render- 
ing of right and justice to both employer and employee. 

There is a more or less prevalent impression that the family 
physician favors the side of the employee, and the surgeon in industry 
favors the employer's side, while the insurance doctor is prejudiced in 
favor of the insurance company. 

Unfortunately this was too often the case in old days when our 
personal injury suits were settled in courts. Such prejudices are 
becoming less prevalent in these days of employees compensation. 

If every surgeon will adopt a policy of absolute honesty, will become 
a just judge, and will render his decisions after a careful consideration 
of the medical, moral and legal aspects of each case, and if employers 
will then make just settlements in all cases where they are either 
morally or legally responsible, there will be a lessened tendency for 
employees to make exaggerated claims of disability; in the long 
run they will receive greater compensation than by the old system of 
court trials, interested expert witnesses, and legal counsel. 

Certain traumatic conditions will always arise, however, which will 
cause disputed claims. The growing tendency of compensation com- 
missions to employ their own medical staffs of disinterested surgeons, 
who can render just decisions in these cases, is reducing such claims 
materially and is resulting in greater justice to both sides. Undoubt- 

719 



720 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

edly the enactment of health insurance laws, enabling working men 
to receive compensation for conditions which are not considered 
compensable accident cases would reduce these disputed claims to 
a minimum. 

Many authorities have argued that employees' compensation and 
workmen's health insurance would at once mean a greatly increased 
number of neurotics and malingers. It has been my observation that 
since quick and more liberal settlement of employees claims for 
disability have been adopted the number of cases of traumatic neuroses 
and malingering have decreased. For nine years I have had the 
privilege of serving a concern in which all five year employees received 
full wages during the entire period of their disability on account of 
sickness, and all employees of less than five years service could join the 
benefit association and receive two-thirds of their wages while absent 
on account of sickness. All accident cases received full wages during 
their entire disability. Such a liberal policy has given ample oppor- 
tunity for studying the effect on imaginary conditions and on 
malingering. 

In the case of sickness there has been a greater tendency to prolong 
disability by claiming neurotic or imaginary conditions among the 
employees receiving just two-thirds of their wages than among those 
receiving full wages. During the entire time I have not seen more 
than ten cases of downright malingering of disease among this entire 
group of employees. 

Many cases of traumatic neuroses and a few genuine fakirs have 
developed among the injured employees, but a less number than I 
have seen among the employees of other concerns which depended upon 
insurance companies to settle their claims. 

Moorhead's experience adds weight to my belief that proper com- 
pensation for either accident or disease will reduce the number of 
exaggerated and false claims. He says, "since the Workmen's Com- 
pensation Law went into effect in New York State, (July 1, 1914) I 
have been impressed by the freedom from exaggerated claims, and 
ascribe this to the fixed payment rates for definite injuries and to the 
non-interference of a certain type of physician and lawyer. During 
the first twenty-six months of the operation of this law many thousands 
of employees were more or less injured in the various activities of the 
railways with which I am connected. Of this number, over 90 per 
cent, required one treatment only, and thus the very great proportion 
might have prolonged disability by asserting subjective symptoms if 
the proper motives existed. Of the more seriously hurt, comparatively 
few exaggerated to any great extent, and I recall but few whom we 
regarded as out-and-out fakirs. I know of but few cases in which 
marked traumasthenic symptoms developed." 



OTHER TRAUMATISMS WITH MEDICOLEGAL ASPECTS 721 

The tendency of certain unscrupulous physicians and lawyers to 
abet injured persons in their exaggerated claims for damage during the 
old days of personal injury suits has resulted in a mass of "court- 
room pathology" which clogs the machinery of justice in our state 
industrial commissions charged with employees' compensation. Such 
terms as "railway spine," traumatic hysteria, and even many of our 
so-called traumatic hernia owe their origin and basis for frequent 
claims to many court proceedings. Injured employees in the past 
were not so much to blame for malingering or for developing traumas- 
thenic symptoms as were these outside forces the self-seeking lawyer 
and the physician who so often unwittingly or otherwise played into 
his hands. 

In these days of social democracy, when the surgeon in industry 
is playing so important a part in securing better relations between 
industry and labor, it behooves all of us to strive to our utmost to wipe 
out this blot on our professional history and in the future render our 
medical opinions to both the injured employee and his employer solely 
with the view of seeing justice done to both. 

TRAUMATIC NEUROSES 

"Traumatic neurosis" (Oppenheim), "traumasthenia" (Moor- 
head), "nervous shock," " hysteroneurasthenia " and similar terms 
have been applied to certain, definite subjective manifestations which 
often appear following trauma. 

These conditions form the most frequent basis for exaggerated 
claims for accident compensation. They complicate almost every 
known type of injury but more frequently occur with the less serious 
than with the very serious injuries. An extremely dangerous accident 
which might have killed the patient but which only resulted in mod- 
erate injury furnishes a common incentive for these traumasthenias. 

The injury sustained is usually of such a nature as to justify only 
a short partial disability and the neurosis becomes the real cause for 
prolonged disability and even for claims for permanent disability. 

In the past many of these conditions were regarded by excellent 
authorities as real neural injuries and were given such names as "spinal 
concussion," "railroad spine" (supposed to be most often due to 
railroad injuries), "railroad brain" and similar terms. These neural 
injuries were described as "molecular changes" similar to those which 
are supposed to occur in concussion of the brain. 

Of recent years there has been a decided tendency to doubt the 
existence of any real neuroses, some claiming that the condition is 
only assumed or shammed for a definite reason. Many of the cases of 
so-called "shell shock," occurring in soldiers who have never been near 

46 



722 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

the front, have strengthened this belief in some observers, while others 
feel that "shell shock has proven the reality of such neuroses." 

There are all types and degrees of these peculiar psychological 
states, following fear, fright, mild injury or severe injury, and mani- 
fested either by pure faking or malingering; a mild nervousness; real 
neurasthenia; a combination of self hypnotism, giving a mild hysteria 
with a certain amount of malingering; a real hysteria; or neurasthenia 
associated with hysteria. 

Excellent contributions to medical literature have been given on 
this subject of neuroses by Oppenheim, Mott, Bailey, Moorhead, 
Freud, Janet, Strumpell and many others. It is not my purpose to 
enter into an elaborate description of these various states for to do so 
would mean a repetition of much that has been written. I prefer to 
express my private opinions and impressions concerning traumatic 
neuroses even though such an expression may not be couched in the 
classical terminology of the psychologist or the neuropsychiatrist. 

These traumatic mental states can be divided into (1) true neurosis; 
(2) a combination of neurosis and faking; (3) true faking. Some 
would say that the cause of the last named condition is simply "a 
born liar, " but this is hardly correct. A careful analysis of the fakir 
will reveal some abnormal or perverted mental state which places him 
likewise in the neuroses group. 

The etiologic factors in traumatic neuroses can be divided into 
(a) predisposing, and (6) exciting. The predisposing causes are : 

1. Moral Instability. In my opinion this is the underlying cause 
of all these conditions and without it the other predisposing causes 
would cease to exist. 

One psychologist has said that for a child of three to lie is normal, 
for a child of six to lie is not serious, but for a child of twelve to lie is 
tragic. To lie does not imply the spoken lie, but includes acting lies 
and is manifested in many forms such as cheating, feigning, etc. This 
trait often becomes such a definite part in the mental emotions that 
without volition the feigning, or other form of falsifying, occurs. This 
tendency may lie dormant for years and then when the subtle tempta- 
tion (predisposing causes) presents itself the feigning consciously or 
otherwise manifests itself. 

I have seen a child of three complain of headache or a sick stom- 
ach, or just sickness in order to escape punishment for some wrongful 
act. I have seen a child of six who has disobeyed his parent and who 
is fearful of the impending punishment turn pale, develop a rapid, 
irregular pulse, complain of nausea and actually vomit and become 
sufficiently sick as to require the attention of a physician. These 
children represent many varied types of neuroses and every phy- 
sician has seen such cases. Usually we ascribe them to a "spoiled 



723 

child." The mental stimuli necessary to bring on these neuroses in 
children take many forms such as fear, desire for personal gain, op- 
position, revenge, etc. 

Analogous conditions are common in adults. A man is late to 
work and he frames up an excuse of sickness; he may even go to the 
toilet several times feigning a diarrhea. Or in order to forestall censure 
for his tardiness he will limp when reporting to his foreman and com- 
plain of rheumatism. Another man will fall behind in his work; 
fearing censure he semiconsciously constructs his excuses and usually 
these take the form of some bodily ailment. Thinking of this con- 
dition causes it to develop subjectively and soon he is forced to lay 
off with true neurasthenic symptoms. 

A patient of excellent character became greatly depressed over 
his failing business. He sought financial help from his father but 
it was refused. He then became very sick with stomach trouble, 
vomited frequently, lost weight, developed an anemia and his 
doctor feared cancer of the stomach, and let the patient know of the 
fear. 

On account of his illness his father was finally forced to advance 
some money in order to save the business. Immediately the patient 
improved and was well within two weeks. 

There are many recorded cases of women who have developed 
the worst types of neurasthenia, hysteria, and even of faking in order 
to gain some desired end such as, a trip to California, or to regain 
the affections of a husband, or to revenge some wrong. 

All of these are examples of an unstable moral tone whether they 
occur in the child of three or in the adult of thirty-three. This failure 
to develop a proper moral balance will often light up an emotional 
state seeking interpretation in some form of neurosis. 

Foster Kennedy in his contribution 1 entitled "The Nature of Nerv- 
ousness in Soldiers" demonstrates most clearly that the loss of " morale " 
in a soldier is the basis of his neurosis. He says, " What is this thing we 
call morale? Is it not the expression in each soldier of his herd instinct, 
of his willingness to sacrifice himself for the benefit of his kind, and for the 
ideals held in common by his countrymen and himself? It is a 
loyalty to his mates, to his officers, to his regiment, to his nation, and, 
in the last instance, to the ideals of life for which his nation stands, 
and it is measured by his conscious willingness to suffer, his capacity 
for sacrifice in the common good. It is a quality born of the tribe, 
a product of gregariousness and so held socially in good repute. It is 
constantly expressed in thought; it is a real component of the soldier's 
conscious intellectual life. The shrinking from loss and the fear of 
death on the other hand are but rarely scrutinized in their realities; 
Am. Med. Assoc., Vol. 71, No. 1. 



724 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



they are antisocial in trend and so are cast down, by good citizens, 
into the limbo of subconsciousness. 

"Perhaps I seem to you to have been wandering from my subject by 
these considerations; but for some months past I have been trying to 
discover something of the dynamic influences in our men, and I feel 
that a clue to the genesis of the neuroses is to be found in the 
antagonism on the one hand of the conscious emotions of loyalty and 
morale with their concomitant urge to self-sacrifice, and, on the 
other hand, the more or less satisfactorily repressed instincts for the 
conservation of individual life." 

This lack of morale, the loss of his high ideals, a lack of conscience 
enables the soldier who 'fears the fight to unconsciously develop a 
neurosis; or the soldier who longs for escape from the horrors and 
abominations of the trenches to develop " shell shock" without any 
visible signs of injury. All authorities report that the seriously 
wounded seldom if ever develop neuroses. Why should they? Their 
wounds give them the honorable means of escape from these horrors. 
They have been true to their ideals, have maintained their morale, 
and now can rest and receive their reward. 

A similar condition exists among employees. If every effort is 
made to keep their morale at a high point; if fatigue, worry and 
unfairness is reduced to a minimum; and if liberal and square dealing 
results in adequate rewards when injuries are received, the number 
of cases of neuroses will be reduced. 

Thus the lack of individual morale a moral instability forms the 
soil upon which the other predisposing causes grow and finally blossom 
into a true traumatic neurosis when cultivated by the exciting cause. 

2. Desire for Gain. The great majority of traumatic neuroses 
occur among those seeking compensation for their injuries. In the 
days of personal injury suits when damages for $10,000 or even $25,000 
were sought and the trials extended over a period of months or years 
these neuroses were far more prevalent and the cure more difficult. 
Even to-day with employees' compensation laws the cases are common. 
Fortunately fixed rates of compensation, reducing the amount of 
damages which can be collected, and early payment of the claim 
have removed this predisposing cause. 

If compensation commissions would recognize the true nature of 
these cases they would make it legally impossible for the payment 
of claims for permanent disability on grounds of "nervous shock," 
"nervous exhaustion" or any form of neuroses. The compensation 
should be limited to the organic condition. Weekly compensation 
for a certain period for the neuroses could be paid but after their 
consultants were satisfied that a neurosis case could return to work 
further payment should cease. 



OTHER TRAUMATISMS WITH MEDICOLEGAL ASPECTS 725 

The fact that so many of these cases recover rapidly after the claim 
is paid is used as an argument by many that the employee was faking. 
Again revert to the child who develops a typical neurosis, with sub- 
jective and objective symptoms, and who soon recovers after his end 
is gained. Sometimes it is necessary and best to grant the child's 
desire, and again he must be cured by making it quite plain that he 
can die first before the desirsd toy or other wish is granted. Our 
neurosis case has the same emotional instability and must be handled 
according to his individual indications. 

The desire for a vacation; or the desire of revenge, as when a doctor 
belittles the injury and the patient determines to "show him up;" 
pride, pity, pique and other similar emotions, all are examples of 
personal gain which may be the predisposing factor. 

3. Fear and Suggestion. The element of fear and fright are very 
strong stimuli for the development of neuroses. A serious accident, or 
witnessing a catastrophe, with no or very little injury resulting, 
is a common cause for these conditions. 

Fear of pain in an injured part may cause the patient to cry out and 
wince at the least touch. This soon becomes a habit and is one of the 
most difficult forms of neurosis to overcome, unless carefully treated 
from the very beginning. 

Fear of serious complications will often cause the subjective, 
and at times the objective, symptoms of the dreaded condition to 
develop. 

Suggestion is often the breeder of fears that result in the most 
serious types of traumasthenias. The doctor will suggest "internal 
injuries" to either the family or the patient direct; or he will talk 
freely before the patient of the serious complications which developed 
in another patient similarly injured. The lawyer can subtly suggest 
many permanent disabilities and very shortly is gratified to see these 
develop. By far the greatest number of cases of traumatic neuroses 
appearing in the courts have undoubtedly been due to these hetero- 
suggestions from physicians, lawyers, relatives and well meaning 
friends rather than to autosuggestion on the part of patients. 

Proof of this is amply furnished by the fact that injured employees 
treated in hospitals and surrounded by proper environment under the 
close supervision of the plant surgeon seldom have marked neuroses. 

Neurasthenia, and even hysteria due to fear and suggestion is not 
limited to accident cases. The suggestion of a stomach analysis in 
order to rule out a possible cancer or ulcer will often result in the most 
prolonged neurasthenic state. Rich patients who can afford to 
run from one doctor to another with every minor ailment, collecting 
a vast store of fears and suggestions, furnish the best examples of 
neurasthenia. Such patients are "cured" by Christian Science 



726 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

and make up a large proportion of the congregations of the Scientist 
Church. 

4. Psychic Impressions. Patients who have been in serious acci- 
dents, such as a train wreck, a falling elevator, a fire, etc., without 
receiving any noticeable injury frequently develop neuroses. Hys- 
teria and malingering more often result from such accidents. 
Neurasthenia will follow more serious injuries in which serious com- 
plications are feared but do not develop. If such injuries are received 
in accidents accompanied by frightful sights, sounds or other 
impressions, this type of neurosis is more liable to occur. Either 
psychic trauma or real injury occurring to a patient who has been under 
abnormal stress and strain or to an emotional person having the so- 
called "hysteric temperament" may cause the development of any 
type of neurosis, but most commonly that of hysteria. 

5. Race. It has been the common observation of all authorities 
on this subject that the Jewish race, especially the very poor or the 
very rich, are the most susceptible to neuroses. This is undoubtedly 
due to the emotional temperament, characteristic of the Hebrew. The 
condition, however, is not more common among the intelligent Jews 
than among other nationalities. I have found the Irish and Italians, 
especially among the very poor and less educated classes, also quite 
susceptible to these conditions. 

6. Age and Sex. I have cared for thousands of injuries among 
girls and women and have found traumatic neuroses far less prevalent 
among them. They develop more mild neurasthenic or hysteric 
conditions but the severe forms more commonly appear among the 
men. On the other hand, hysteria from all causes oftener affects 
women than men and, as is well known, this type is commonest at 
the age of puberty or at the time of menopause. The traumatic 
neuroses have more frequently appeared in employees over the age of 
thirty than under it, in my experience. 

The exciting cause for these traumatic neuroses is an accident 
which results in a real or imaginary injury. Such injuries may occur 
to any part of the body and may vary from the slightest to the most 
severe trauma. Injuries to the head, abdomen or spine more fre- 
quently result in neurasthenia, while injuries to the back or extremities 
are more commonly the cause of malingering. No one regional injury 
seems to produce hysteria more than another. 

"Traumatic Neurasthenia" and "Traumatic Hysteria" are the 
recognized types of functional neuroses following trauma. The 
neurasthenic and hysteric symptoms developing after an accident, do 
not differ to any extent from the functional diseases described as 
neurasthenia^ and hysteria, which occur without the exciting cause of 
trauma. The diagnosis of neurasthenia is not nearly so common as 



727 

it was a decade ago and this is generally because better diagnostic 
methods have revealed a real organic disease in many of these 
so-called functional states. In the same way the diagnosis of 
traumatic neurasthenia is becoming less common. 

The functional disease known as hysteria is now recognized by 
many as a mental disease and the stigma or signs of this condition 
pre-existed in all patients who later develop the disease. Traumatic 
hysteria, therefore, is simply the combination of a trauma occurring to 
a person with this pre-existing stigma and thus exciting an outbreak 
of the hysteria. If such a patient gains considerable attention or 
gains a large compensation, the tendency toward a recurrence of 
traumatic hysteria is increased. In fact a most important part of the 
treatment of these traumatic hysterias depends upon the handling of 
the settlement. Both employers and compensation commissions often 
increase the hysteric stigma by assuming a too generous attitude 
toward such patients. 

Traumatic neurasthenia on the other hand is a much more tangible 
condition. The patients are more susceptible to reasoning and the 
tendency to recurrence is rare/ 

A most complete description of these traumatic neuroses is given 
in Moorhead's "Traumatic Surgery" and the reader is referred to this 
for an adequate description of the symptoms and diagnosis of these 
conditions. 

Treatment. The question of whether these neurotics will have 
prolonged weekly compensation, terminating finally in claims for 
permanent disability depends altogether upon the handling of the 
case by the surgeon. If his suggestions of a more serious trouble than 
really existed has been the predisposing factor in the condition, or if 
he has undiplomatically antagonized the patient by accusing him of 
faking, or of merely " being nervous," better results can be obtained 
by changing surgeons. Patience, tact, cheerfulness and the ability 
to inspire confidence are essential qualities in a surgeon who would 
successfully handle traumatic neuroses. 

We must recognize that a certain percentage of all accident cases 
will possess this tendency to develop neuroses, therefore, the surgeon 
must approach every emergency case in such a manner as to inspire the 
confidence of the patient from the beginning. If he shows undue 
excitement, assumes a grave attitude, hesitates in his various pro- 
cedures and otherwise shows indecision he can very easily plant the seeds 
for "traumatic neurasthenia." Many a case of traumatic hysteria 
receives its incentive from the blustering surgeon who gets his nurses 
and assistants greatly excited, who starts one line of treatment and 
discards it for another, talks unguardedly about the serious nature of 
the case and finally suggests that the patient should go to a hospital 



728 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

but ends by allowing him to go home. In other words, the emergency 
surgeon must be a person quick to make his decisions and gentle but 
firm in his handling of the case. 

The best treatment of traumatic neurasthenia is to remove the 
patient to the hospital under favorable environment, win his confidence 
and then by a frank talk and careful explanation of all symptoms 
gradually disperse his fears. A more rapid and permanent cure can 
be obtained in this way than by the use of medicines and other forms 
of treatment. During this period the injury must be most carefully 
handled and its seriousness must not be too greatly belittled; certainly 
it must never be exaggerated. The objective symptoms, chief of 
which are pain and insomnia must be combatted often with medicine. 
Useful and interesting bedside studies arid occupations are of the 
greatest benefit in these cases and will relieve the patient's intro- 
spection, which is usually the basis of his condition. 

The traumatic hysterias should likewise be removed to suitable 
environment; the successful surgeon will draw upon his imagination 
in order to conceive various forms of subtle suggestion designed to 
work a miraculous cure. Usually the friends and relatives must first 
be convinced of the hysterical nature of the trouble. Unless this 
is done, the sympathy and suggestions of a loving relative will most 
likely prolong the disease. These patients will present various emo- 
tional states, which can best be combatted by the surgeon assuming 
similar emotional attitudes. For example, the cunning in the hys- 
teric must be met with cunning in the surgeon. Every effort must 
be made to win the confidence of these patients before any sudden 
cure can be accomplished. Generally, medication is seldom indicated 
except as a means for gaining this confidence. The local symptoms 
such as pain, paralysis, contractures and special sense defects must 
be treated both medically and surgically, always with the view of 
suggesting a cure. It is quite apparent that the value of any sug- 
gestive treatment will be lost if the antagonism of the patient, rather 
than his complete confidence is aroused. For example, if one of these 
patients develops generalized convulsions and the surgeon in disgust 
and often in anger applies extreme pressure on certain painful areas, 
such as supra-orbital regions he may cut short the attack but he has 
aroused a certain amount of antagonism in the patient. On the other 
hand, if he gains this patient's confidence and explains to him that a 
certain type of painful treatment, such as this pressure, is necessary 
to accomplish a cure, he will get much quicker results. 

Slight back injuries often result in most extreme types of traumatic 
hysteria. A strained, exaggerated position is assumed by such a 
patient and he may even develop a paralysis in one or both legs. A 
careful diagnosis should first be made to rule out all signs of organic 



OTHER TRATJMATISMS WITH MEDICOLEGAL ASPECTS 729 

injury. This implies the use of the x-ray, motor and sensory tests, etc- 
All of these methods of examination must be conducted in a matter of 
fact way so as not to arouse further suggestions in the patient's 
mind and with the view to increasing his confidence in the surgeon. 
After the diagnosis of hysteria is positively proven and this confidence 
is established, the surgeon can direct his utmost efforts toward com- 
batting the hysteria, and the more sudden and miraculous cure which 
can be attained the more certain its permanency. Many of these cases 
can be handled successfully in the following manner : 

The proven hysteric is told that local applications of heat by 
special instruments are necessary to cure the condition and such treat- 
ment can only be given at the hospital. After arriving at the hospital 
the patient is prepared for the 'treatment by certain medication. He 
is told that the medicine is very nasty but must always precede the 
application of heat. He is given a large dose of asafetida followed 
immediately by a seidlitz powder, followed a few minutes later by 
tr. of ammonium valerinate. This administration is made with great 
solemnity and with expressed sympathy for the person who must take 
such bitter potions. He is then taken to the dressing room, his back 
or paralyzed limb exposed and is asked to point out the place where 
the pain or trouble seems to be the most acute. A cutting needle, about 
2 inches long is then heated, so that the patient can see it, until it is 
red hot, when it is suddenly plunged into the soft tissues and imme- 
diately withdrawn. The real pain from this procedure is slight but 
the psychologic effect upon the patient is remarkable. This treat- 
ment is not carried out in a spirit of punishment. It has been sug- 
gested to the patient innumerable times that such treatment usually 
accomplishes an immediate cure and I have found it seldom necessary 
to repeat this procedure. 

Electrotherapy and hydrotherapy are markedly beneficial in many 
of these cases. A stream of cold water, shot from a hose pipe with 
force, against the affected part is very effective. These patients can 
often be easily hypnotized and, while in the hypnotic state, the para- 
lyzed limb is found as useful as the other limb. The patient who has 
not walked for weeks will sometimes be cured on awakening from the 
hypnotic state and finding himself standing alone. Anesthetized 
patients can be similarly treated. I have seen some wonderful cures 
by merely suggesting that the next day the patient will be anesthetized 
and the contracted limb forcibly straightened. On the surgeon's 
visit the next day the condition has often corrected itself . 

The following case history will illustrate the methods which must 
often be employed to successfully combat these traumatic hysterias: 

Mr. M., 55 years old, employed as a mechanic in a plow factory, 
in a town some 50 miles from Chicago, was struck a glancing blow on 



730 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



his left shoulder and left side of his head by a moving crane. He was 
knocked down but was not unconscious. A cab was called and he 
was taken to the doctor's office, where an examination failed to reveal 
any injury except a slight contusion on the shoulder. He was sent home 
and the next day was able to return to work. That night the surgeon 
was hurriedly called to his home because the patient had evidently 
had a stroke of paralysis. The surgeon found the patient suffering 
from an apparent paralysis of the left arm and left leg and with 
his face contorted and cyanotic and the jaws fixed so that it was im- 
possible to open the patient's mouth. This condition persisted for 
several hours when the patient finally relaxed. The paralysis, how- 
ever, persisted. A few hours later he had another attack, and this 
time the spastic condition involved the left arm and left foot. It 
lasted for only a few minutes when the patient again relaxed. These 
attacks recurred .every few minutes for the next 24 hours. 

The local surgeon called the author in consultation. When I 
arrived the patient was resting quietly and had not had an attack for 
two hours. I started my examination but on lifting the paralyzed 
left arm an attack was immediately induced. The jaws were fixed, 
the face contorted, and the eyes open and staring. The left fist was 
tightly contracted while the left arm was held perfectly rigid, and the 
toes contracted. Respiration practically stopped and the patient 
became very cyanotic. He seemed to suffer intensely. The 
picture this man presented was most distressing and the grief of 
his wife and one of his daughters was uncontrolled. Another daughter, 
who was a nurse, sponged her father's face with cold water and tried 
in other ways to relieve the condition. The son, who was present, 
expressed himself bitterly toward the concern responsible for his 
father's condition. The paroxysm lasted about two minutes. 

There were no facilities for x-ray examination in this town and I 
recommended that the patient be brought at once to Chicago and put 
in a hospital where his case could be thoroughly studied. This plan 
was agreed to and arrangements were quickly made to take the pa- 
tient on the next train which left within an hour. During the excite- 
ment of getting ready the patient had only two attacks. He was 
carried to the train on a cot and placed in the baggage car, the surgeon 
and the son riding with him. He had no attacks on his way to the 
city. 

Immediately after arriving at the hospital these attacks returned 
and occurred at frequent intervals. An x-ray examination failed to 
show any signs of injury and after a study of the case for a few hours 
a diagnosis of hysteria brought on by the slight trauma was made. 

It was quite evident that the family, especially the daughter who 
was a nurse, could not easily be convinced that their father was simply 



OTHER TRAUMATISMS WITH MEDICOLEGAL ASPECTS 731 

suffering from hysteria. Therefore, I decided a miraculous cure was 
necessary. Within 48 hours I had gained the implicit confidence 
of the patient and the family, which was primarily essential in the 
handling of such a case. 

By this time the attacks were infrequent. It was suggested, how- 
ever, in the patient's presence that he could easily be thrown into 
an attack by endeavoring to forcibly close his left fist. Each time 
that the nurse, interne or surgeon attempted this procedure the patient 
would immediately develop a paroxysm. I then carefully explained to 
the patient that the attacks could be prevented by the use of a certain 
expensive drug which I had ordered and which would be delivered 
the next day. Both the nurse and the interne expressed great im- 
patience in the presence of the patient for the arrival of this drug. 
The next day I appeared with a small bottle of quinin sulphate. The 
method of procedure was then carefully explained to the patient. 
He was to put his tongue out in order that I might coat it over with 
this medicine; at the same time he was to forcibly press on his right 
ear with his right hand and elevate his right leg at an angle of about 
45 degrees and hold it in that position until the medicine took effect. 
Meanwhile I would forcibly close his left fist, but "because of the drug 
and the effect on his circulation of these various acts on his part, no 
attack would develop." The plan was carried out and with great 
success. He complained of the bitter medicine but was greatly grati- 
fied by its wonderful effect. A short time later, without the use of 
the medicine or of elevating the leg and pressing the ear, we tried 
to close his left fist and an attack immediately developed. The above 
line of treatment was then again carried out successfully. This was 
repeated several times until I was convinced that the patient was 
thoroughly imbued by the suggestion. 

One of the best nerve specialists of the city was then called in 
consultation. The patient was thrown into an attack by pressure on 
the left fist and from the symptoms and history of the case 
the specialist agreed with the diagnosis of traumatic hysteria. The 
entire family was present during this consultation and for this reason 
the specialist was warned against telling them at that time the nature 
of the condition. After he had completed his examination I told the 
family and the specialist of the wonderful cure which I had effected 
by means of this drug and proceeded to demonstrate the method to 
them. It was again successful. I then suggested to the patient that 
the same effect could be achieved by holding his right leg in the air, 
pressing on his ear, sticking out his tongue, without using any of the 
medicine and again the results were successful. It was now time to 
tell the family and the patient the nature of his trouble. The bottle 
of medicine was shown to them and they were told that it was nothing 



732 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

but old fashioned quinin. The daughter, who was a nurse, verified 
this statement by tasting of it and by asking the hospital nurse and 
interne if this were true. She completed the cure by turning to the 
other members of- the family and stating that their father had 
been fooling them. By this time the patient was in tears and was 
greatly distressed. I immediately sent the family from the room and 
comforted him, meanwhile assuring him that he had had a real con- 
dition from which he had been cured and that now he could get up and 
walk. His clothes were brought and in a short time I led him out to 
the family, a well man. 

The details of this case are set forth in order to demonstrate the 
essential factors in rapidly curing this type, and most other types, 
of traumatic hysteria. 

These essentials are: (1) An early but positive diagnosis of the 
condition; (2) securing the absolute confidence of the patient and the 
family; (3) removing the patient to a hospital where his entire environ- 
ment can be carefully supervised ; (4) ingeniously devising a line of treat- 
ment which will carry the greatest amount of suggestion and which 
usually involves some foolish act on the part of the patient which can 
later be used to demonstrate the foolish nature of the disease to both 
the patient and the family; (5) securing a sudden and miraculous cure; 
(6) selling the cure to the relatives and friends. 

Many cases of traumatic hysteria can be cured without the pay- 
ment of compensation if the surgeon will familiarize himself with 
the special psychological conditions which apply in each case. These 
analyses require individual handling and no hard or fast rules can 
be laid down which are applicable to the entire group. 

MALINGERING 

Malingering takes one of two forms. It is either a combination 
of hysteria or neurasthenia with subtle faking, or pure faking. To 
call all malingerers downright fakers is misleading and will often cause 
the surgeon to overlook the neurasthenic and hysteric conditions, 
which very frequently are combined with the malingering. On the 
other hand, deliberate faking of both subjective and objective symp- 
toms occurs frequently without any evidence of organic or functional 
disease. The patient deliberately lies in order to accomplish his end, 
which is usually that of gain or revenge. I prefer, therefore, to divide 
these malingerers into two classes: First, the true malingerer and 
second, the absolute faker. 

True malingering manifests itself frequently in cases of fracture or 
severe strain, or other injury which requires several weeks of con- 
valescence accompanied by very little pain. These patients become 



OTHER TRAUMATISMS WITH MEDICOLEGAL ASPECTS 733 

hospitalized, that is, they enjoy the life of ease in the hospital, in- 
centive is lost, and they dread returning to work. All manner of 
symptoms are feigned, usually with two ends in view: first, to prolong 
their stay at the hospital or their period of absence from work; second, 
to develop a case of permanent disability with the view of collecting 
full compensation. 

In a large ward, occupied chiefly by railroad employees, I have seen 
this type of malingering spread like an epidemic. A congenial group 
of these men happen in the hospital at the same time; they enjoy smok- 
ing and playing cards together and lose all desire to go home. The 
surgeon must ever be watchful for symptoms of this type of malinger- 
ing. Ward occupations, wholesome entertainment and often puni- 
tive treatment, administered with the greatest kindness, are necessary 
to overcome hospital malingering. 

To successfully handle malingerers it is necessary to let the patient 
think he is fooling you. Sympathize with him and by suggestion assist 
him in exaggerating his symptoms more and more. "Give the calf 
plenty of rope and he will hang himself" applies most aptly to these 
cases. Even relatives who at first believe in the true nature of the 
patient's complaints will soon come to realize that he is exaggerating his 
trouble, if not faking it. Some cases of malingering can be nipped 
in the bud by immediately demonstrating that the patient has lied, 
followed by a severe arraignment. This line of treatment, however, 
should not be followed unless the surgeon is quite positive he can 
cure the condition by severely lecturing the patient. If you fail 
in obtaining an immediate cure you have antagonized the man, put 
him on his guard and will have greater difficulty in showing him up 
later on. The following case demonstrates one of the best methods 
of handling these malingerers: 

S. B., male, 40 years old, stepped backward into an open elevator shaft 
while working in the basement and fell to the bottom of the shaft 
some six feet below. A truck which he was pulling at the time also 
fell into the shaft but did not strike the employee. Two fellow 
employees immediately lifted him out of the shaft and he was brought 
to the doctor's office. Examination failed to reveal any serious injury 
but he had sustained considerable bruising over his right buttocks. 
He complained bitterly of his symptoms and immediately gave evi- 
dence of an emotional temperament with a hysterical tendency. On 
account of this he was persuaded to go to the hospital. He was kept 
in bed for three days and was then told he could get up and walk 
around the ward. On attempting to walk he showed a very exagger- 
ated limp. I sympathized with the patient and told the interne in the 
patient's presence that he undoubtedly had developed "mock-malign 
syndrome" and most probably would lose the sense of feeling in the 



734 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



affected leg, or would be bent over sidewise, and made other ridiculous 
suggestions. The next day I submitted this patient to a thorough 
examination conducting it with a great deal of solemnity and aiding 
him by suggestion to exaggerate his symptoms more and more. He 
complained of severe pain on pressure over the back and the painful 
points were carefully marked with a pencil as he pointed them out. 
Other regions were examined and then the back re-examined, with the 
result that the patient could not accurately relocate the same spots. 
Painful spots were similarly found in the leg and the different 
" relocation areas" marked. The pin-prick test showed areas of 
anesthesia in the leg. These were also marked and similar tests 
applied later on with the result that the anesthetic areas had shifted. 
These tests were made with the patient lying down so that he could not 
see the inaccuracy of his statements. The patient was then told to 
stand up, place his feet together, throw his head back and close his 
eyes, the surgeon meanwhile holding his body steady. The interne 
was told to stand behind the patient and catch him if he fell backward 
"which they usually did when suffering from this particular disease." 
On letting go of the patient he immediately fell backward into the 
interne's arms. This was repeated several times. It was now time 
to expose the frauds which the patient thought he was perpetrating. 
He was again placed with his feet together and his head back and this 
time the interne was told to "stand aside and let the patient fall to the 
floor and break his neck if he wanted to for he was only faking the 
symptoms anyway." Upon saying this the patient's body was released 
and he was told to go ahead and fall, but he never did. The inaccuracy 
of the relocation tests were pointed out and it was carefully explained 
how we had deliberately allowed him to think he was fooling us. A 
careful record of his case had been kept and this was read to him in 
order to prove that we could refute any claim for disability which he 
intended to make. He was then told that if "he returned to work at 
once his job was waiting for him and nothing would be said about his 
attempted fraud. On the other hand, if he persisted in his faking he 
would not only lose further compensation but his job as well. The 
next day Mr. B. returned to work. 

The final examination as above described was conducted in the 
presence of his wife and brother. I have found it always much better 
to expose the patient's malingering in the presence of his relatives as 
it chagrins the patient more and usually convinces the relatives of 
the true condition. 

The majority of malingering cases develop after injury to an ex- 
tremity, especially involving a joint, as the knee, shoulder, ankle and 
hip joints. Slight injury to the back is also a frequent cause for ma- 
lingering. Careful study of the motions of a "stiff joint" will reveal 



OTHER TRAUMATISMS AVITH MEDICOLEGAL ASPECTS 735 

that the patient is using it when his attention is otherwise diverted. 
Likewise a careful study of the limp which he develops will show many 
variations in it. The surgeon must become a veritable detective in 
order to catch these malingerers off their guard. When sufficient 
evidence of the faking has been collected the surgeon, who up to this 
time has been very sympathetic, can turn on the patient in righteous 
indignation and usually succeed in convicting him of fraud. 

In the cases of absolute faking, both the subjective and objective 
symptoms are deliberately planned with the intent to deceive. Such 
patients must be handled as described for malingering and the cure 
always depends upon discovering the fraud and exposing the patient. 

Besides faking the symptoms, these employees may deliberately 
injure themselves in order to gain their end, which is usually more 
compensation. This type of faking is best illustrated by the case 
of J. D., whom we operated for a so-called traumatic hernia. The 
stitches were removed on the eleventh day and the wound was perfectly 
clean. Four days later it was infected, having considerable pussy dis- 
charge. This infection resisted all treatment. A week later I x- 
rayed the wound in order to make sure that no foreign material could 
have been left in the tissues, which as you know, is very unlikely in a 
hernia operation. The x-ray showed a pin buried in the upper end of 
the wound. This was removed without much difficulty but the patient 
was not told about it. A few days later the pussy discharge had ceased 
but the wound in the skin was not completely healed. The patient 
was allowed to go home, however, and instructed to report to the 
doctor's office for subsequent dressings. A week later the wound 
again became infected and began to discharge profusely. It was ex- 
plored by forceps and several small bits of rags were removed. With- 
out saying anything to the patient, who was a boy of only eighteen, his 
father and mother were sent for and the history of the case told to 
them. The pieces of rag removed from the wound were shown to the 
mother, and she indentified them as parts of her dish towel, which she 
had noticed recently had been cut. They were naturally indignant 
at the son and left determined to punish him for his act. On reaching 
home, however, they found that the boy had packed his clothes and 
left. He was found a month later, living in Michigan with an old 
bachelor who had shared his room at the hospital. Detectives placed 
on the case found that this bachelor was a pervert who had misled 
the boy. 

I realize that the above description of traumatic neuroses very 
inadequately covers this subject. However, I have endeavored to 
point out the most important facts about these conditions which the 
surgeon in industry should know in order to successfully handle a 
situation which is very common in industrial practice. 






736 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

TRAUMATIC APOPLEXY 

Bellinger has described certain cases of cerebral apoplexy which 
occur some days after a head injury. We realize that severe trauma 
often is responsible for a middle meningeal hemorrhage or other serious 
intracranial hemorrhage. In such cases, the nature of the wound and 
usually the finding of the condition at autopsy place these in the proper 
category of compensable conditions due to accident. 

The later development of apoplexy, however, after a head injury 
is more often due to the systemic conditions ordinarily the cause of a 
"stroke, of apoplexy," and the trauma should be regarded as coinci- 
dental. Because of the liability of such a claim I insist upon a 
thorough physical examination, including blood-pressure in all cases 
of head injury. Recently an employee fell and sustained a scalp 
wound. He was a man fifty years of age, very fat and the general ex- 
amination showed albumen in his urine and a blood-pressure of 220. 
It was utterly inconceivable to connect this systemic condition with 
the injury which occurred just an hour previously. This employee 
recovered from the scalp wound but a month later died from a stroke 
of apoplexy. The record of our careful examination at the time of 
injury enabled this concern to refute the claim of traumatic apoplexy. 

It frequently happens that a person will fall while at work, or will 
fall from the step of a street car, or into an exposed gutter while 
walking in the street. When picked up it is found that he has suffered 
a stroke of apoplexy and has sustained an injury to his head. The 
question immediately arises: was the injury responsible for the apo- 
plexy or was it sustained as a result of his falling when the stroke 
occurred? From the medicolegal standpoint such cases will often 
present themselves for solution. An injury to the head, sufficiently 
serious to rupture the small calibered "artery of apoplexy" will cer- 
tainly rupture other blood-vessels nearer the site of the injury. If the 
patient is not dead the general examination will show the high blood- 
pressure and other signs of the apoplectic state. If dead, the autopsy 
will reveal these signs as well as the typical apoplexy. 

The surgeon in industry should constantly watch for these obscure 
conditions in injured employees which may later be the basis for an 
unjust claim for compensation. 

TRAUMATIC APPENDICITIS 

I have seen several cases in which appendicitis developed a few days 
after trauma to the abdomen and were, therefore, made the basis of 
claims for compensation. On only one occasion have I felt justified 
in even remotely connecting the trauma with the inflamed appendix. 
This occurred in a small boy who was run over by an automobile, the 



OTHER TRAUMATISMS WITH MEDICOLEGAL ASPECTS 737 

wheels passing directly across the middle of the abdomen. The skin 
was abrased and contused over the appendix regions. I have de- 
scribed this same case in the chapter on "Compensable Hernia" as the 
boy also developed a hernia following this injury. Three days after 
the accident he complained of severe abdominal pain in the region of 
the appendix. This was followed by vomiting, rigidity, tenderness 
and temperature. The leukocyte count rapidly mounted to 26,000. 
At first it was thought that the symptoms might have some connection 
with the hernia on the left side but it was soon evident that we were 
dealing with a case of appendicitis. He was operated ten hours after 
the attack began and a swollen, acutely inflamed appendix removed. 
There were no adhesions or other signs of a pre-existing appendicitis. 
The lumen of the appendix was filled with soft fecal matter but there 
were no fecal concretions. Microscopically the changes were those of 
acute inflammation of the appendix. There was no history of abdomi- 
nal colic, "sick stomach" or similar conditions which might indicate a 
former appendicitis. Two of the best surgeons in Chicago saw this 
case with the author and agreed that, while it was quite probable 
the appendicitis was only coincidental yet it was impossible to prove to 
the satisfaction of the family or any jury 'that the trauma was not the 
direct cause of the condition. It may be of interest to know that this 
boy developed an acute intussusception just a year after this accident 
and was operated by another surgeon. He died following the opera- 
tion. The family felt that this condition was the result of the previous 
injury but the surgeons who handled the case felt that the previous 
injury was only a coincidence. 

Dr. Charles Rowan who saw the above patient, told the author of 
a case of traumatic appendicitis which he had seen in the County Hos- 
pital some time before. This also occurred in a boy of six years. The 
youngster fell from a tree and struck a picket fence, causing a severe 
laceration directly over the appendix region. Two days later he devel- 
oped an attack of acute appendicitis which was verified on operation. 
There were no pathologic findings which indicated a previous attack 
of appendicitis. 

The majority of claims for this condition, however, develop in 
cases where the nature of the injury to the abdomen is not at all serious. 
Careful questioning will reveal the fact that the patient has had abdomi- 
nal symptoms previous to the trauma. In other cases, the attack 
develops several weeks after the injury and during the interval there 
were no manifestations of intra-abdominal disturbance. 

Sprengle, Deaver, Moorhead and others who have written on this 
subject feel that it is scientifically impossible to trace the relationship 
between appendicitis and trauma no matter how serious the latter 
may be. When we consider how protected this tiny organ is and how 

47 



738 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

much more readily the larger abdominal viscera could be injured it is 
very difficult to conceive of a trauma having any etiological element 
in the development of an attack of appendicitis. As Moorhead has 
so aptly pointed out "the abdominal violence may occasionally act as 
an alarm clock for the re-awakening of a dormant, inflamed appendix." 

TRAUMATIC DISPLACEMENTS OF THE UTERUS 

Girl employees very frequently complain of displacements of the 
womb as a result of injury. In my experience the commonest 
causes for these claims are such accidents as falling down stairs, 
or being forcibly knocked down by some fellow employee run- 
ning through the aisle, by a truck, or an automobile. Practically 
every one of these claims develops after the girl employee has 
consulted the family physician; or quite frequently after some lady 
physician has told her that a displaced womb has resulted from the 
accident. Often this statement is made by the family physician with- 
out a vaginal or rectal examination being made. These girls will com- 
plain of severe pain in the back and of painful menstrual periods, both 
of which "never existed prior to the injury." All such cases should be 
submitted to a thorough pelvic examination. This should always be 
done in the presence of the mother or a lady relative and a nurse and 
preferably with the patient anesthetized with nitrous oxid. .Where 
this has been done, I have never found a case which showed the uterus 
displaced except in two older women, both of whom showed other 
evidence of a displacement of long standing, such as relaxed vaginal 
walls, and in one a definite cystocele and rectocele. 

Personally, I am convinced that a permanent displacement of the 
uterus never follows direct violence. It is conceivable that such a 
violence might cause a temporary displacement but the organ would 
undoubtedly almost immediately resume its normal position. Pelvic 
symptoms may follow severe trauma in the' region of the pelvis as a 
result of this temporary displacement and these must be treated by rest 
and other means, often requiring temporary disability such as may 
follow any strain. The only compensation, therefore, which should 
be paid such cases is for this temporary disability. It is often cheaper 
in doubtful cases to repair the condition, paying compensation for the 
time lost from work, just as in the case of doubtful hernias, rather 
than allow the condition to persist with the subsequent claims for per- 
manent compensation. 

TRAUMATIC ORCHITIS 

This condition may develop from falls, blows and other forms of 
direct violence to this organ. Frequently, however, employees will 
report to the doctor's office with a swollen testicle, exceedingly painful, 



OTHER TRAUMATISMS WITH MEDICOLEGAL ASPECTS 739 

which they claim is due to an injury, or more often to a severe strain 
while lifting. If careful examination is made, a gonorrheal infection 
will be discovered in many of these cases, thus showing the real cause 
of the condition. The important point, therefore, in traumatic orchitis 
is to always make sure that gonorrhea is not present. However, a 
direct violence to the testicle even in a gonorrheal patient may furnish 
cause for compensation. 

The above examples are sufficient to illustrate the number of 
remote conditions associated with trauma which can develop and 
which present medicolegal aspects. It is very evident, therefore, 
that the surgeon in industry must acquire a keen medicolegal sense. 
Above all he must not let his desire to discover false claims prejudice 
his judgment against the true compensable traumatic conditions. 



CHAPTER XLV 
HEALTH INSURANCE 

Twenty-five years ago in my father's little factory, employing 
some 50 people, every man knew "John" and father knew them. 
The friendliest human relations existed between him and his hands 
because of the personal touch which could be maintained. Labor 
turn-over was small because the men were satisfied. If one of these 
employees became sick, or sickness assailed some member of the 
family he usually dropped in to see if anything was needed. 
Often financial help was the most urgent need. Money was freely 
advanced, which could be paid back in small installments after the 
existing emergency had passed. 

With the growth of industry and the combination of these small, 
factories into one gigantic concern this personal relationship between 
employer and employee was lost. The president of the concern 
replaced the old proprietor, the general superintendent replaced the 
"boss" and the "hands" became human machines. They missed 
the old-time contact with the head of the firm and the seeds of dis- 
satisfaction and distrust were sown, later to bear fruit in "labor 
troubles." 

During the early days when industrial enterprises in this country 
were expanding at a terrific rate the employers were absorbed in a 
fierce battle for their survival. This was interpreted as selfishness 
by the employees and unfortunately in many cases it was a true 
interpretation. Labor began to combine and battle for its survival. 

Since the old friendliness between the boss and his men had died 
labor unions began to replace it. Sick funds were created and 
when one of the members was forced to remain away from work 
on account of illness he was given aid from this fund. Those employ- 
ees not so fortunate as to belong to the labor union class were often 
left destitute when sickness attacked them. Humanity recognized 
that some assistance must be rendered these unfortunates and their 
families and charitable organizations sprang into being. Now 
practically every city has its Associated Charities. 

About fifteen years ago a few large industries, with a far-sightedness 
that was interpreted by many as " fads, " " philanthropy, " " conscience- 
easers, " and similar states of mind, began to recognize that something 
was wrong in this economic arrangement. These men began to re- 

740 



HEALTH INSURANCE 741 

establish the human relationship between employer and employee. It 
was impossible for the executive to become intimate with his thousands 
of employees and to show a personal interest in their welfare, but he 
could utilize different agencies to represent him in this new relationship. 

The results of this new viewpoint showed that a good business 
sense rather than philanthropy was behind all such movements. 
However, this relationship was never successful when based on a 
selfish foundation; the mutual welfare of each was the absolutely 
essential motive, guided always by the spirit of the Golden Rule. 

In ever increasing numbers have the industries of the country 
adopted this new spirit and with its growth labor troubles have been 
decreasing. But at the outbreak of the war the old selfish attitude 
on the part of both industry and labor was still predominant. The 
necessity of speeding up production in order to supply our armies 
with the sinews of war is resulting in recognition of the human 
engineering processes advocated for many years by many workers 
in this field and which have been successfully applied in several 
instances. 

Disease is our common enemy. It arouses sympathy for our 
assailed brother and wins his gratitude when assistance is offered at 
such a time. On this account good medical and surgical aid provided 
by the employer for his employees has proven to be the best human- 
izing agency ever introduced into industry. And as one of our greatest 
business men has said: "The medical department pays the biggest 
dividends." 

No other one factor has been so potent in calling the attention 
of our people to the waste in human life and human energy 
as this medical work in industries. It has paved the way for several 
momentous advances in preventive medicine and preventive surgery. 
It has provided methods for excellent care of the sick and injured 
employees. But it is greatly handicapped in its work of mercy by 
the lack of financial support of the employee during his time of forced 
idleness due to sickness. 

As a result every physician in industry is a strong advocate of 
some form of health insurance which will prevent poverty from being 
the most powerful ally of disease, as it is at present. These physicians 
may differ widely on the exact nature and methods of administration 
of this form of insurance but that some form is needed is harmoniously 
agreed by all. 

Practically all of the great industrial countries of Europe have had 
health insurance for many years, as well as insurance against accidents. 
The American Association for Labor Legislation, the American 
Manufacturer's Association and one or two commissions appointed by 
state legislatures have made extensive studies in Europe of these 



742 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

systems and much of our proposed legislation is based upon their plans. 
The country will always be indebted to the first named organization for 
the part it has played in stimulating this great social movement. Many 
different agencies in the country have opposed the views expressed 
by these organizations but the discussion thus aroused has resulted in a 
closer study of the question. At the beginning of the war at least 
fifteen different commissions and associations in this country were 
scrutinizing every proposed angle of health insurance. These com- 
missions were of one accord in that they would not accept any 
European plan in part or in toto, but that the system of health insur- 
ance finally adopted by America must accomplish its purpose without, 
unduly affecting the personal rights of any individual, unduly dis- 
turbing the economic conditions of the country or placing an injustice 
of any kind upon labor, capital or the state. If, after a most intelli- 
gent study of this question, proper legislation is passed, there will 
inevitably follow some of the greatest social reforms our country has 
yet seen. It is, therefore, worthy of comment that, instead of the 
legislatures of the various states hurriedly passing proposed health 
insurance laws, many of them have appointed commissions and 
appropriated large sums of money for a complete study of the subject 
with recommendations as to the proper form legislation should take. 
Some of the opponents of this movement are endeavoring to prolong 
these studies and thus delay the necessary laws. We must not unduly 
hasten these investigations but every man who believes in health 
insurance must give his assistance and use his influence for an adequate 
health insurance law just as soon as possible. 

Mr. John B. Andrews, Secretary of the American Association for 
Labor Legislation, in an address before the National Conference of 
Social Workers in 1917, gave the following resume on the progress 
toward health insurance: 

"Progress toward workmen's health ^insurance has probably 
aroused more earnest discussion in a greater number of interested 
groups than has any other single campaign in the whole field of social 
legislation. Following as a logical next step the enactment within 
seven years of workmen's compensation laws in ' four-fifths of the 
American states and territories and with America stigmatized as 
the only important industrial nation of the world without compulsory 
health insurance it is natural that definite proposals for publicly 
insuring against the wage-earners' sickness should have excited ex- 
ceptional comment. Undoubtedly, too, the method by which the 
legislation ' was presented had something to do with the spirited 
discussion of its merits an educational effect of justly reputed 
value in our political democracy. 

"The definite health insurance program was formulated by a special 



HEALTH INSURANCE 743 

national committee whose members had been most active in consist- 
ently working for adequate standards in workmen's compensation laws. 
With a preliminary conference in Boston in December, 1912, at the 
annual meeting of the American Association for Labor Legislation, 
this committee organized the First National Conference on Social 
Insurance, held in Chicago in June, 1913. One year later 'tentative 
standards' were widely distributed for criticism and suggestions and 
as a result of numerous meetings and much correspondence with 
representatives of labor, employers, and physicians, the first tentative 
draft of an act for health insurance was published in November, 
1915. Second and third revised editions with explanatory notes 
have resulted in a preliminary distribution of more than 25,000 
copies while reprints in professional and trade journals and in 
pamphlets represent an additional circulation of at least double that 
number. Every effort has been made to stimulate helpful discussion, 
both sympathetic and hostile. Although still in tentative form prob- 
ably no piece of social legislation in this country has had more 
careful preliminary consideration. The educational results have 
amply justified both the method and the effort. 

"Principles of the Standard Bill. In brief, the standard health 
insurance program is the result of a growing conviction that sickness 
is one of the principal causes of poverty, that sickness is an insurable 
risk, that existing agencies for meeting the problem are inadequate and 
place upon those who do insure against sickness an unjust and un- 
necessarily high burden and this without fully utilizing the preventive 
value of mutually administered workmen's insurance. Provision is 
made for the universal application of health insurance to all workers 
earning less than a specified amount by requiring that while at work a 
few cents per week, based upon and deducted from earnings, shall be 
placed in a fund, under state supervision, to which the employer 
contributes a like amount and the state one-half as much. The system 
is non-contributory for workers receiving less than a specified minimum 
wage. When incapacitated by illness or by accident not covered by 
workmen's compensation, the workman would be entitled to receive 
at the expense of the fund adequate medical, surgical and nursing care 
and two-thirds of wages until able to resume work, but not for more 
than twenty-six weeks' incapacity in any one year. For fatal cases a 
funeral allowance of $100 is provided and for women workers and for 
the wives of insured men provision is made for maternity care. Ad- 
ministration of this insurance recognizes trade union funds, establish- 
ment funds and fraternals as approved societies but encourages the 
formation of mutual local or trade funds to be jointly conducted at 
actual cost. No provision is made for recognizing profit-making or 
commercial insurance companies. 



744 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

"Endorsed by Official Commissions. Bills based upon this standard 
measure were introduced in three legislatures in 1916 and in a dozen 
states in 1917. Meanwhile official social insurance commissions in 
California and Massachusetts were investigating and early in 1917 
the California commission announced that, in a survey of the social 
insurance field, it had reached the unanimous conclusion to center all 
efforts upon health insurance as the logical and most practical next 
step following workmen's compensation. The commission concisely 
stated unanimous agreement in the following sentence: 

"In order to meet the problems of destitution due to sickness, and in order 
to make health insurance a valuable adjunct to the broad movement for the 
conservation of public health, any legislation on this subject should, in the opinion 
of the commission, provide (a) for a compulsory system for the conducting of the 
insurance by non-profit making insurance carriers; (6) for a thoroughly adequate 
provision for the care and treatment of the sick, and (c) for contributions from 
the insured, from industry and from the state. , 

"The Massachusetts commissioners attempted by means of sub- 
committees to deal with the whole field of social insurance during the 
brief half-year between legislative sessions and naturally arrived at 
conclusions not entirely acceptable to all of the members of the com- 
mission. In endorsing the principle of health insurance, however, the 
commission was unanimous. A majority of the members were further- 
more in accord with the main provisions of the health insurance bill 
introduced this session in the Massachusetts legislature, and believed 
that the system, to be effective, must be compulsory and that the cost 
should be distributed among employer, employee, and the state. The 
major report, submitted by the sub-committee on health insurance, 
was signed by four commissioners, including the chairman of the com- 
mission. Briefly, the report in its recommendations agrees in most 
particulars with the conclusions reached independently on the opposite 
coast by the California commission. The Massachusetts report 
recommends compulsory, contributory workmen's health insurance 
legislation, with private stock companies operating for profit excluded 
from the field. 'The plan of insurance,' states this report, 'most likely 
in our opinion to prove successful is one in which the carriers are 
mutual associations managed by employers and employees, equally.' 
Thus the Massachusetts report agrees in this particular also with the 
legislative proposal of the American Association for Labor Legislation. 

"Executive encouragement to the health insurance movement was 
not lacking. Governor Hiram W. Johnson, in commending the work 
of the California commission, said in his message to the legislature: 
' I believe in health insurance, and that ultimately it will be established 
in our nation, and this within a brief period.' Governor Samuel W. 
McCall in his inaugural address urged the Massachusetts legislature to> 



HEALTH INSURANCE 745 

enact compulsory health insurance, saying: 'I am strongly of the 
opinion that there is no form of social insurance that is more humane, 
sounder in principle, and that would confer a greater benefit upon large 
groups of our population and upon the commonwealth as a whole than 
health insurance.' 

"Eight States Making Investigations. In California it was believed 
that a peculiar constitutional restriction in that state might endanger 
the safety of compulsory, contributory health insurance, and the legis- 
lature, therefore, promptly passed through both houses for the ratifi- 
cation of the people a constitutional amendment declaring it to be 
'the policy of the State of California to make special provision for the 
health and welfare of those classes of persons, and their dependents, 
whose incomes, in the determination of the legislature, are not sufficient 
to meet the hazards of sickness. The legislature may establish a health 
insurance system, applicable to any or all such persons, and for the 
financial support of such system may provide for contributions, either 
voluntary or compulsory, from such persons, from employers, and from 
the state by appropriations.' 

"In order to continue the work of education and legislation in 
California there was appropriated for the expense of the commission 
an additional sum of $22,500. In Massachusetts where the momen- 
tary confusion which accompanied our nation's entrance into the 
war gave a temporary setback to all social legislation there was later 
provided a special recess commission, this time to concentrate on 
health insurance, with the usual arrangement as to necessary expenses. 
In Illinois and Pennsylvania health insurance commission bills were 
enacted with expense appropriations of $20,000 and $5000, re- 
spectively. Ohio created a commission to study both health insurance 
and old age pensions and voted $25,000 for the purpose. Wisconsin, 
moved by a growing sentiment for health insurance legislation, author- 
ized official study of social insurance and appropriated $5000. 
Connecticut embodied health insurance in an omnibus commission 
study bill, and the New Jersey commission to inquire into old age 
dependency and insurance reached the conclusion that any compre- 
hensive plan for old age relief should be preceded by universal work- 
men's health insurance. Thus in no less than eight states official 
investigation of health insurance is under way. 

"This rather remarkable progress toward health insurance was no 
doubt stimulated to a degree by various official reports. Following a 
two years' survey of occupational diseases under the general direction 
of Dr. Emery R. Hayhurst, the Ohio State Board of Health declared 
that 'underlying the high sickness and death rate prevalent among 
wage-earners is the industrial factor,' that inadequate legislation and 
inefficient inspection are due to lack of interested co-operation from 



746 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



employer and employee, and that 'until some direct incentive to 
improve factory sanitation is offered little real progress can be hoped 
for. The cash value set upon health by health insurance promises 
the needed stimulus.' In harmony with this conclusion was a 
special bulletin on health insurance issued by the United States Public 
Health Service, in which a compulsory, contributory system mutually 
. managed and without opportunity for profit-making was strongly 
recommended. Similar to this in effect was the conclusion of the 
United States Commission on Industrial Relations. Finally the 
United States Commissioner of Labor Statistics in a brilliant paper 
before the International Association of Industrial Accident Boards and 
Commissions, of which he is the distinguished secretary, is strongly 
on record as favoring ' health insurance universal, compulsory, state 
health insurance true social insurance.' 

"A Rapidly Increasing Public Demand. Scarcely less important 
than the official steps noted above have been the many endorsements 
of health insurance by private organizations. Closely following the 
tentative standards drawn up by the Association for Labor Legislation 
have come vigorous expressions of approval from numerous labor, 
civic and medical societies and from forward looking employers. 

"In addition to local trade unions and city central organizations 
throughout the country more than a dozen of the most influential 
state federations of labor and national and international trade unions 
have adopted resolutions favoring the principle of health insurance and 
have left no doubt as to their stand in reference to commercial in- 
surance participation. Opposition to such profiteering is thus 
pointedly expressed in the resolution adopted last November by the 
American Federation of Labor : 

"RESOLVED: That the American Federation of Labor in Thirty-sixth Annual 
Convention assembled, declared against private insurance, or insurance for profit, 
as it may apply to industrial, social or health insurance. 

"Among a large number of outstanding leaders in the American 
labor movement who are on record in favor of health insurance are 
John Mitchell and James M. Lynch, who are now members of the 
New York Industrial Commission; James Duncan, the president of 
the Granite Cutters' International Union and First Vice-president of the 
American Federation of Labor; and William Green, Eighth Vice-presi- 
ent of the American Federation of Labor and Secretary-treasurer of 
the United Mine Workers, the largest trade union in America. The 
National Women's Trade Union League at its convention in June, 
1917, went strongly on record for health insurance, including maternity 
care, for the millions of women workers. In harmony with this 
sentiment is the following conclusion: 'A governmental system of 



HEALTH INSURANCE 747 

sickness insurance is preferable because: More democratic; the 
benefits would be regarded as rights, not charity. Compulsory 
features, obnoxious under private insurance, would be no longer 
objectionable . . . European experience has proved the superiority 
of government systems to private insurance.' Final Report, U. S. 
Commission on Industrial Relations; signed, among others, by John 
B. Lennon, Treasurer, American Federation of Labor; James O'Connell, 
Second Vice-president, American Federation of Labor; Austin B. 
Garretson, President, Order of Railroad Conductors. 

"Organizations of employers have been less ready to publicly go on 
record for a system of health insurance which is bound to cost them 
a considerable initial outlay no matter what returns they later receive 
through the increased efficiency and contentment of a healthy working 
force. But even here, as in the case of the Boston Chamber of Com- 
merce, desire has been expressed to have the subject studied, and the 
best informed employers have not hesitated to say that they regard the 
coming of health insurance as inevitable. Ferdinand C. Schwedtman 
who, as chairman of an important committee of the National Association 
of Manufacturers made a study of European experience with social 
insurance, in a preliminary report in 1914, said: 'I give it as my opinion 
that sickness insurance of some kind, with compulsory contributions 
on the part of the employers, will be enacted into law by many states 
of the Union within the next five years, and' that now is the time 
to go into this subject thoroughly.' The National Association of 
Manufacturers committee, now under different leadership, has not 
been able to reach and maintain this open-minded attitude. By 
way of comparison it is interesting to note the following conclusion 
reached in 1916 by the committee on public relations of the American 
Electric Railway Association : 

"The benefits of health insurance can only be made wide-spread by making 
insurance compulsory. Compulsory insurance can be best introduced by the 
employer making a substantial contribution toward the cost of insurance, con- 
sidering such contribution as a part of the wage payment and an element in the 
cost of production. 

"Just as the compensation of the machine which has outworn its usefulness 
is chargeable to the productive process, so it is now considered that the cost of 
industrial accidents to employees is properly borne by the industry. A somewhat 
similar philosophy underlies the demand for health insurance legislation now being 
concurrently urged in several states of the Union. 

"A middle course theory reconciles this recent tendency as not out of accord 
with the ideals of individualism. It recognizes accidents, sickness, and death 
as capital hazards confronting each individual. Adequate provision for them by 
the individual is frequently impossible, even with great sacrifice and foresight. 
. . . Yet, by co-operative action, the cost of such capital hazards may be shared 
and borne with slight difficulty. This assists rather than interferes with the 
maximum individual progress. 



748 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

"Moreover, the American Chamber of Commerce in Berlin which 
has had an opportunity to see health insurance in operation under 
government auspices declared that, 

"Compulsory workmen's insurance has raised the working classes in Germany 
in respect to health, economy, and standing in the community, and it is clear that, 
with their aid only, Germany has maintained her position in the markets of the 
world. And furthermore, hundreds of thousands, now fighting on the field of 
battle, may trace their health and capacity to the timely and proper treatment 
received with the aid of sickness insurance. 

"Medical Profession Deeply Interested. The medical profession 
which is always profoundly affected by any thorough-going system of 
health insurance has perhaps taken a more active part in the movement 
in America than has either of the other two directly affected groups 
already mentioned. This alertness is perhaps due in large part to the 
manner in which the legislation was presented. Mindful of British 
experience' where the physicians threatened to go on strike against the 
Lloyd George act (fearing lest their incomes be reduced but learning 
later in actual practice under the law that their incomes were measur- 
ably increased) the original drafters of health insurance bills in this 
country left the medical sections in merest outline and urged the 
doctors to suggest provisions acceptable to the medical profession. 
The American Medical Association immediately accepted the invita- 
tion in good spirit and appointed a committee of which Dr. Alexander 
Lambert is chairman and Dr. I. M. Rubinow executive secretary to 
investigate and report. Several valuable pamphlets have already 
appeared as a result of this expert committee's work, and at the annual 
convention of the American Medical Association in June, 1917, the 
House of Delegates adopted a resolution encouraging further work 
on the subject and instructing its Council on Health and Public 
Instruction to co-operate when possible 'in the molding of these laws 
that the health of the community may be properly safeguarded and 
the interests of the medical profession protected.' The resolution also 
outlined four legislative demands, the greater part of which are 
specifically met in the standard bill, namely, '. . . insist that such 
legislation shall provide for freedom of choice of physician by the 
insured; payment of the physician in proportion to the amount of 
work done; the separation of the functions of medical official super- 
vision, from the function of daily care of the sick, and adequate 
representation of the medical profession on the appropriate admin- 
istrative bodies.' 

"Such sincere opposition as has come from physicians, and there 
is not a little of it, can be traced in very many instances to dissatisfac- 
tion with medical arrangements under workmen's compensation 
laws which in most states were enacted without the aid or special 



HEALTH INSURANCE 749 

knowledge of the medical profession. There is, fortunately, ample 
evidence that medical men will not be caught napping when health 
insurance is enacted, and no less a leader than Surgeon General Rupert 
Blue in his address as president to the American Medical Association 
has declared: 'Health insurance is the next great step in social 
legislation.' 

"Selfish Opposition by Private Insurance Companies. Although 
the exclusion of the commercial insurance element from profiteering 
in social health insurance follows the tested experience of other 
countries, and is in line with an unmistakable American tendency 
as a result of practical experience here with workmen's compensation 
legislation, every effort to exclude such profiteering in these mis- 
fortunes of the wage-earners is met with vigorous and characteristic- 
ally selfish opposition. It is not too much to say that nine- tenths 
of the opposition to social health insurance comes directly from men 
who are in the employ of private insurance companies. Any one 
familiar with the private insurance propaganda of vilification against 
the public method of conducting workmen's compensation will, 
of course, not be misled by similar efforts to confuse the public re- 
garding health insurance. 

"War Conditions Emphasize Need. Despite efforts of an interested 
opposition to throw sand in legislators' eyes there is no doubt about 
the growing conviction of the public that private insurance has proven 
itself woefully inadequate to meet the sickness problem and as a 
commercial venture places an unnecessarily heavy burden upon those 
least able to bear it. This conviction was already beginning to 
crystallize into legislation in time of peace. In time of war the needs 
of our industrial army, which constitutes our first line of defense, 
very greatly accentuate the urgency of a comprehensive program for the 
conservation of our human resources. As men are taken by war from 
shop and factory, those remaining must be kept fit to meet the in- 
creased demand for output. And as women enter industry in rapidly 
increasing numbers, the need becomes even more pressing for the 
protection afforded by universal health insurance, including maternity 
care. 

"Existing protective standards for labor must be upheld in the 
interest of national effectiveness. But in addition to that we must 
make provisions for increasing still further the nation's productive 
power and the wellbeing of its workers. Healthy wage-earners are 
the foundation of national strength both in peace and war. 

"Unfamiliar work and intense effort due to industrial shifting re- 
quired by war will increase the toll of sickness among wage-earners, 
particularly women, as it has in Europe. Workmen's compensation 
provides the stimulus for prevention of accidents. Under universal 



750 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

health insurance there would be similar efforts to prevent sickness. 
It is in the public interest to provide the machinery by which preven- 
tive measures against disease will be stimulated and adequate medical 
attention and cash benefits provided to tide the workers over sickness 
periods without distress and destitution. Health insurance is social 
justice. The responsibility for sickness is shared by industry, the 
worker, and the state, and all three will share in the benefits of public 
health." 

Group insurance, that is, the plan of insuring a body of persons 
working under the same general conditions and presenting an average 
of normal health and medium age, is a plan conceived some six or 
seven years ago and which has been adopted by a number of industries 
of the country. Group insurance is not offered as a substitution for 
health insurance, as it deals chiefly with the problems of life insurance. 
It is purely a commercial plan, but based upon the principle of the 
employer giving more to his employees and, therefore, getting more 
from them. In practically every concern where group insurance has 
been introduced the relationship between employer and employee has 
improved, due to the reawakened interest of the one in the other. 

At times the advocates of health insurance have condemned the 
group insurance plan and the advocates of the latter have fought the 
former plan. It would seem that there is good in both and that both 
ideas should be included in the final enactment of legislation on this 
important subject. 

Health insurance will give the necessary relief to the working 
man or his family during the period of disability but it will not pro- 
vide sufficiently for the relief of the family after the wage-earner's 
death. Group insurance, on the other hand, gives a nest egg to 
the dependents during that period of readjustment following the 
loss of their provider but does not afford relief during his term of 
sickness. Group insurance combined with employees compensation 
for accidents has already demonstrated the need of some form of 
life insurance combined with health insurance. And further, death is 
not always the agency which deprives the family of their support, 
but premature break-downs, old age and even non-employment have 
contributed largely to destitution. Thus pension, especially old age 
pension, is another form of insurance which is as essential as health and 
and life insurance. 

While these various insurance plans are being thrashed out it 
behooves all commissions studying the problems to make strong 
recommendations for improved compensation laws in case of accidents, 
and especially a standardization of the existing compensation acts. 

Mr. Whiting Williams has pointed out the need of insuring the 
workers of the country thusly: 



HEALTH INSURANCE 751 

Why do the charities need money when we can't get enough men 
to run our factories?' 

"This question came from every side to the writer last year when 
secretary of the Federation for Charity and Philanthropy. Here is 
the answer: 

"One of the large New York charities said not long ago that more 
than nine-tenths of all their cases were caused directly or indirectly by 
sickness, including death of the bread-winner. An investigation of 
some five thousand families had earlier shown that one-third were of 
the 'widow type,' the father dead or permanently disabled. Because 
widows and fatherless children need 'permanent, liberal and regular' 
relief also, such families require more than one-third of the money 
secured. 

"What had these fathers been doing? Most of them had been 
factory workers and it must be remembered that the presence of 
fatherless children always denotes that the fathers were cut down in 
their prime. In Ohio and a number of other states industry makes 
some amend by money awards, where death occurred as the direct 
result of a factory mishap. But this cares for only about six or seven 
per cent, of industry's widows and orphans. The others, for the most 
part, make a burden upon their none too prosperous friends, or compel 
harassed charity officials to explain why contributions are needed in 
so-called 'good times.' 

"The head of the city's Jewish Federated Charities has pointed out 
that there is no reason in the world why industry should not pay for 
its fearful wear and tear on the human machine, just. as it 'charges up' 
the cost of the steel machines it finds it necessary to 'scrap* from time 
to time. 

"The new group insurance is a way of doing this, with the additional 
advantage that its cost is largely offset by the savings it effects. With- 
out increasing the price of the manufactured product and hence the 
cost of living, this six-year-old form of insurance utilizes team-work to 
relieve industry's workers from the necessity of competing with the 
war's victims for a share of charity's dole, and at the same time 
operates to increas the productive effectiveness of the factory in its 
indispensable support of the firing-line." 

The group insurance plan referred to by Mr. Williams is excel-, 
lently described by Mr. W. A. Day, President of the Equitable Life 
Insurance Society of the United States, who says: 

"Group insurance is the name given to a comparatively new de- 
velopment in American life insurance. Its object is to enable the 
employer, who has under him a large number of workers, to increase 
the efficiency and stimulate the loyalty of these workers by rendering 
them a genuine service; the aim and the result of which is to strengthen 



752 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

mutual good will and make the business relations between employer 
and employee closer and more permanent. 

"The employer accomplishes this by giving to each employee a 
moderate amount of life insurance for the protection of his dependent 
family. 

"Every life earning a pay check has a definite insurable value. The 
ultimate aim of group insurance is to cover these values. It is a plan 
for insurance at its source under which the employer provides the life 
insurance to protect the pay check. It brings life insurance to a large 
number of unprotected families who, but for this plan, would continue 
unprotected. 

"Group insurance is based on the principle of co-operation between 
the employer and the employee, for the benefit of both alike. The 
insurance is at the expense of the employer only in the sense that the 
employer pays the premium cost of the same. Experience indicates 
that increased efficiency on the part of the employee in response to 
constructive efforts in his behalf fully justifies the cost of the insurance. 
Group insurance may be viewed as a practical application of social 
insurance principles hi strict accord without American ideals of in- 
dividualism. In my judgment the group insurance principle by means 
of which the employer assists the employee in protecting himself 
against distress in various relations suggests a solution of many of the 
problems now involved in industrial relationship .... 

"After the work at fair wage comes the protection of that wage from 
loss. Such loss may be due to: First, death; second, disability; 
third, superannuation. 

"The measures effective to prevent these forms of distress are, in 
order: life insurance protection against the loss of the wage through 
death ; health and accident insurance protection against the loss of the 
wage through temporary or permanent disability; pensions or saving 
system against the loss of the wage through inability to work because 
of old age incapacity. 

"So far as these plans or any of them can be made to serve on the 
theory of justifying such additional expenditures by the employer 
because of additional efforts on the part of the employee, the plans are 
economically sound. 

"Group life insurance approaches the labor problem by recognizing 
that irrespective of the size of the pay envelope large classes of people 
will remain who through thoughtlessness or lack of urging, or physical 
inability, do not themselves provide life insurance for the protection 
of their dependents. A careful study of our claim figures indicates 
that perhaps as high as 40 per cent, of the wage-earners have no life 
insurance. Life insurance is only purchased because of persuasion by 
an agent. Unless the agent has the opportunity to point out the 



HEALTH INSURANCE 753 

necessity for life insurance to an individual, this individual views his 
obligation in the abstract and fails to make unsolicited application for 
insurance. Then again there is a certain percentage of those applying 
for life insurance who do not measure up to the required standards of 
insurability. If such men applied individually for insurance they 
would be rejected. 

"The group insurance plan contemplates the inclusion of the weaker 
lives by supporting them by the larger percentage of the stronger lives. 
Hence, insurable classes are obtained by having the insurance embrace 
all the employees of any single employer, who has proper regard for the 
selection of his employees and for surrounding them with safeguards to 
health and limb. Thus the employee may be insured according to the 
rating for age, occupation and industry without reference to the in- 
dividual insurability of any particular employee. By this means, the 
group plan becomes universal throughout the little dominion of one 
employer. 

"A group contract is made with this employer, setting forth the 
terms, conditions, and rates under which the insurance will be continued. 
Each employee is given a supplementary insurance certificate written 
in the name of the employee, stating the amount of the insurance, anc} 
giving the name of the beneficiary designated by the employee to re- 
ceive the insurance if death occurs during continuance in the employ. 

"This means the elimination in that particular establishment of any 
necessity for ' passing the hat ' among fellow employees, to care for the 
survivor of some employee who has died unprotected. It means that 
a certain sum of insurance will be available in the home on the death of 
a worker so covered, to supply the money immediately necessary for 
the funeral, and enough more to serve as a substitute for the wage check 
during a reasonable period in which to readjust the affairs of the family 
to the new conditions. 

"The amount of the insurance is usually based on one year's wage 
or salary, with a maximum limit of $3000 to those receiving more than 
that sum. In other cases the amount of the insurance is some flat sum 
such as $1000 to each. A third plan is that of graded insurance such as 
$500 or $1000 to be increased by $100 insurance per year for each 
additional year of service up to a fixed maximum. These plans are 
variously adapted to fit the views of an employer as to the needs of his 
employees, and the ability of his business to provide the premium 
costs of group insurance to fill these needs. 

"That some life insurance is a vital need of the worker, to protect 
his dependents, is abundantly testified to by statements from em- 
ployees and from their beneficiaries. One large automobile company 
earring group insurance has kept close record of the conditions in the 
homes to which these group policies were paid. 

48 



754 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

"Out of the first fifty claims that were paid, it was reported that there 
had been only one case in which the claim money was not urgently 
needed to prevent immediate distress. In the one case which was an 
exception the money was used to advantage in paying off a mortgage 
on the home. Another large employer studied the effect of the claim 
moneys in over one hundred homes with practically the same result. 

"In many of the cases in which those claims were paid, the employees 
were highly skilled, commanding relatively large pay. Conditions 
were found to be much the same among the highly skilled and among 
the lower grades of labor, each class living up to its full income and 
apparently not finding a place in their budget for a proper amount of 
life insurance. 

"Time will not permit me to reproduce statements from individual 
beneficiaries, but the following which was sent from the sales manager 
of a large oil company to the insurance company in reference to a 
group claim illustrates the good which group insurance does. This 
letter is in part as follows: 

"'The case of Mrs. . . . and her two daughters is the most 
deplorable one that the writer has ever come in contact with. All 
three, of them are in the last stages of consumption, with not a penny 
in the house, and the $1000 I handed them was really the most valu- 
able sum of money I believe that ever went into the State of Oregon.' 

"Group insurance is not a substitute for individual insurance. It 
simply supplements it. It is meant to provide some insurance to those 
not otherwise protected by it, and to be a substantial addition to the 
individual insurance which all are encouraged to provide for them- 
selves. The plan has been found to work best only as it is operated 
on an inclusive basis; namely, to include everybody employed, or all 
those in the class for whose benefit insurance is desired. 

"Any attempt to leave the choice with the employee whether he 
should secure this protection or not, defeats, in some degree at least 
the object of the insurance in its attempt to be universal throughout 
one group. For this reason it has not been found satisfactory to have 
the employees pay for the insurance either in whole or in part. Any 
proposal for payment from the employees entails the refusal of the 
insurance by some employees, which destroys in the first place the 
universality of the protection and in the second place impairs the 
averages requisite in an insurance transaction, because those who 
would stay out would be as a rule the stronger lives not feeling the 
immediate need of the insurance. . . . 

"It has been urged at times that group insurance might be used to 
keep down wages or to keep men from freedom of action in changing 
their employment. This is an erroneous conclusion. Any effort to 
use group insurance in this direction would defeat its aims and make 



HEALTH INSURANCE 755 

the expenditure an utterly wasteful one, because it would fail to improve 
the industrial relationship on the basis of getting more by giving 
more. 

"One employer, already quoted, goes further than the mere subject 
of group life insurance by including in his establishment other forms 
of protection for the employee, and states: 

' 'I have always believed that the great problem of the employees' 
unrest must be met more by the voluntary act of employers in remov- 
ing causes of unrest than through the compulsion of legislation, and 
that it would create a far more beneficial result in the attitude of labor 
toward capital if employers generally should extend these benefits 
voluntarily without waiting for compulsory legislation.' 

"It is interesting to note how closely this reference is related to the 
whole subject of social insurance. It is also interesting to note that 
this employer now providing voluntarily for his employees' group life 
insurance and also group disability insurance in larger ways than have 
been proposed in any system of compulsory social insurance, comes to 
the conclusion that the distress of the employee must be met, and that 
the only alternatives are either for the employer to relieve this distress 
voluntarily, or for the state to compel him to do so. ... 

''The social service of group insurance is self-evident and it is being 
rapidly extended. It is also clear that social insurance would be but a 
minor application of relief principles which are now advocated and are 
achieving increasing vogue through the work of group insurance. Far 
from competing with such principles social insurance would probably 
stimulate the further application of group insurance. It may be 
said that the adoption of Workmen's Compensation Insurance was the 
most important single item in opening up the field for group life in- 
surance. The workmen's compensation laws have done more than 
stimulate group life insurance. These laws have also brought into 
being group health and accident insurance supplementing the com- 
pensation laws by voluntarily providing compensation benefits over 
hours not covered by these laws and otherwise extending benefits to 
classes of salary workers excluded entirely from compensation laws. 

"It is also important to note that group insurance has stimulated the 
study of the subject of old age pensions by institutions not yet granting 
pensions, and has had a strong influence in effecting improvements in 
existing pension systems. The conditions of many pension funds 
and pension systems foreshadows future disappointment and distress. 
To find a pension fund well planned, well managed and actuarially sol- 
vent is the exception rather than the rule. In the past the advice and 
services which the insurance companies are able to render, have 
not been utilized to any large extent in perfecting the pension systems 
adopted by our large establishments, associations of school teachers, 



756 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

public servants of various kinds, and even foundations organized for 
pension philanthropies. The pension systems operated in this country 
are almost all actuarially insolvent, or in the way to become so 
unless radically readjusted. Independent of the financiering of the 
pension the plan under which these pensions have been organized and 
granted has not always been one that commends itself for justice, sim- 
plicity and the complete protection of the pensioner. Group insurance 
has done much to call attention to the pension subject as a related 
provision for protecting the employee, and has placed the equipment 
of experts at the disposal of those concerned. 

"Group insurance is no longer an experiment. It is an accomplished 
fact. It is carrying to the employer a sound principle and the convic- 
tion that he can, with advantage to himself, to the employee, and to 
humanity, co-operate better to protect the worker in ways which 
bring returns commensurate to both and to society at large." 

Some of the best principles thus far suggested, not only as a basis 
for health insurance, but for our medical and surgical work and other 
movements looking toward the welfare of employees, are contained 
in a paper entitled "Human Relations in Industry" by Mr. Whiting 
Williams. This article can be found in the transactions of the 
National Safety Congress for 1917, and should be read by every 
physician in industry. 

At the present time the National Industrial Conference Board is 
making an extensive study of occupational and accident hazards in 
all industries, the industrial sanitation and accident prevention plans 
introduced to combat these hazards and the results of medical and 
surgical work being carried on in industry, with a view to stimulating 
legislation along the lines of standardized prevention of sickness and 
accidents. They feel that eight or ten millions of dollars spent in 
prevention would accomplish far greater results than ten times those 
amounts expended immediately in health insurance. They argue that 
health insurance is the cart which is being placed before the horse 
and that universal prevention at this time is far more important than 
universal relief measures after the damage is done. Every physician 
in industry throughout the country will have the opportunity of 
assisting this association in its investigations and, as their principles 
are quite in accord with the spirit of prevention, every facility for 
the most complete deductions should be given them. The entire 
industrial force of the country is everlastingly in debt to this National 
Industrial Conference Board for the constructive measures they have 
introduced into our industrial development during the last five years. 
Their present investigation should have great weight with all state 
legislatures contemplating the enactment of health insurance laws. 



HEALTH INSURANCE 757 

From a study of the various European plans of health insurance, 
old age pensions, life insurance and other forms of insurance and from a 
study of the various plans for similar arrangements in this country 
advocated by the different governmental and civilian agencies one 
is convinced that the great desire. of all civilized governments is to 
improve the health and thereby the economic conditions of their 
working people. Unfortunately some of the systems in vogue in 
other countries have been too paternalistic or have wrought too great a 
hardship on industry, or have tended to stimulate malingering, or 
robbed the medical profession of their inalienable rights, or have 
stimulated political manipulation. These mistakes give excellent 
grounds for criticism on the part of labor, or of capital, or of the 
medical profession, or of other groups of people whenever health 
insurance legislation is proposed in any state. 

Nevertheless, all of these various groups agree that some form of 
universal insurance is needed. The United States is used to thinking 
in big terms and mammoth propositions have always appealed to our 
people. Since we have entered the war we have become accustomed 
to talking in billions, to see the Federal government assume control of 
our great industries, to see labor organized as never before for the 
greatest possible production, to witness the food supply of the country 
controlled and conserved and to see the medical profession organized 
into a gigantic machine for the protection of our armies. Having 
these examples before us we should realize that this is the psychological 
time to put across the most comprehensive scheme for the betterment 
of the health and the economic conditions, not only of the working 
people but of our entire population. 

With this in mind, such a program should include: 

First, the greatest freedom in the industrial development of our 
country from both the standpoint of capital and labor but with the 
necessary governmental supervision over the human relationship 
between each that would forever eradicate the wasteful warfare which 
has been waged between them in the past. 

Second, establishing at once a nation-wide program for the preven- 
tion of disease and accidents, not only in industry but in every walk 
of life. 

Third, the immediate federalization of the health agencies of the 
country with the necessary adjuncts to carry out such a program. If 
the present great medical machine which has been built up for military 
purposes is allowed to disband the greatest opportunity for a system 
of socialized medicine will have been lost. The great machine for 
food conservation which has been formed is one of the well-organized 
adjuncts necessary for the above program. Safety and sanitary 
engineering have entered into the activities of the government as 



758 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

never before during this present emergency; these also are essential 

auxiliaries in a comprehensive health plan. 
Fourth, a scheme which would provide for: 

(a) The necessary financial relief or compensation in case of 
disability for every essential producing person in the country. 
(&) The necessary funds to be raised by compulsory contribution 
prorated between the employer, employee, the individual 
and the state; the premium rate to be arranged on a sliding 
scale, assessed annually, and based upon the amount of 
sickness or the accident rate occurring among each group 
during the preceding year. Thus the contribution from 
the employer would depend upon the size of his working 
force, plus the sickness and accident rate among them. The 
contribution from the employee would depend upon his wages, 
plus the sickness and accident rate among the employees 
in that particular industry. The contribution from the 
individual would depend upon his individual income plus 
his personal sickness arid accident rate. The contribution 
from the state would depend upon the insured population 
plus the reduction or increase in the sickness and accident 
rate. Such a plan, affecting as it does, the pocket-book 
of every individual would be the greatest incentive for 
prevention that could be conceived. 

(c) A cumulative fund raised from a premium rate, slightly in 
excess of that needed for health insurance and to be used as 
insurance against old age, non-employment and death. 

(d) The necessary medical and surgical relief to be given by that 
branch of the medical profession assigned to treatment. 

Fifth, the medical forces of the country would be divided into 
teaching groups, prevention groups, and treatment groups. Subdi- 
visions of these divisions would include executives, consultants and 
field workers. Compensation would be paid from the fund raised for 
insurance and would be commensurate to the average fees received 
by physicians under the old plan of individual practice. Great 
fortunes would no longer be made in the practice of medicine; neither 
would our great scientists, devoting their time to research work, 
go underpaid as in the past. Incompetents in the profession who 
have gained wealth by quackery methods or who have remained poor 
because of their incompetency would be eliminated. Medical science 
would become standardized and a better system of medicine would be 
universally practiced. Every section of the country, and every district 
in that section, would have its qualified medical forces. Wastage, 
as at present, from duplication of effort would cease. 

Such a comprehensive plan as the above would have been con- 



HEALTH INSURANCE 759 

sidered the dreams of an idealist before this war, and by many may 
still be so considered, but the war has advanced every social reform 
a hundred years. To-day it behooves the thoughtful man, both in 
and out of our profession, to take for a standard the most ideal plan 
that can be conceived and from it to work out a practical solution of 
these problems. These are the by-products of the war which will 
make worth while the great sacrifices which are being made by our men 
to-day on Flanders Fields. 



CHAPTER XL VI 
EMPLOYEES' MUTUAL BENEFIT ASSOCIATIONS 

Employees' Benefit Associations represent a form of industrial in- 
surance long in existence in this country. This form of protection was 
sought for and organized by the workmen themselves. As these asso- 
ciations grew in favor and demonstrated a real economic function, 
employers began to encourage them by contributing to their funds or 
by co-operating in their management. 

To-day over 500 Mutual Benefit Associations, scattered through an 
equal number of industries the managements of which strongly sup- 
port them, testify to the value of sick benefits for disabled employees. 
Their greatest economic value, however, has been to focus the attention 
of the country upon the need of a state-controlled system of health 
insurance. 

The development of employees' benefit associations in this country 
has had a very close relationship to the development of industrial 
medicine. It is desirable, therefore, that the physician in industry 
should become familiar with these organizations and whenever possible 
stimulate their growth. 

The author is greatly indebted to Mr. W. L. Chandler, one of the 
greatest authorities in this country on this subject, for the following 
article on Employees' Benefit Associations: 

"The form of Mutual Benefit Associations which has developed 
during years past is known to employers in a general way. In the past 
each group of employees has been working out its own salvation, deter- 
mining upon amounts of benefits and dues in keeping with their 
particular requirements. Originally these were organized by the em- 
ployees. Of recent years the employers have come to recognize their 
value not only to the wage-earners but to the corporation, and as a 
result of that feeling together with the growing tendency of employers 
to take more interest in the welfare of their men, there has come to 
be a co-operative spirit in the management of these associations, which 
pay daily benefits in case of disability from either sickness or accident 
and final benefits in case of death. 

" Three Different Forms of Organization. The relative values of 
the three forms of organizations are best reflected in the following 
figures, taken from a report of the Commissioner of Labor : 

" Of more than 400 organizations in the United States those operated 

760 



EMPLOYEES' MUTUAL BENEFIT ASSOCIATIONS 761 

solely by employees enjoyed an average membership of 30 per cent, 
of the employees eligible for membership. In organizations where 
employer and employee co-operated in the management the member- 
ship averaged 66 per cent., while in those associations managed entirely 
by employers the membership averaged 75 per cent. 

" In spite of these figures, 75 per cent, of the Associations, according 
to the Government, were managed by employees alone, 18 per cent, 
were managed jointly by employer and employee, and 7 per cent, by 
the employer alone. 

'The present tendency is toward co-operation on the part of the 
employer. Associations which have been organized in recent years 
are nearly all co-operative. By failing to co-operate with an effort 
of this kind among his employees an employer is in reality withholding 
from them the benefits which they might obtain through his advice 
and counsel. It is assumed that the employer by virtue of his broader 
business experience is able to offer advice of great value to the men. 

"How Should Membership be Obtained Compulsory or Other- 
wise? The compulsory form of membership unquestionably pro- 
duces the highest percentage of members. Observation of a number 
of Associations operating on that plan has shown several serious weak- 
nesses in the plan. Every item of a compulsory nature which is 
injected into an establishment has the effect of increasing friction 
between the employer and employed. 

" Some employees have outside insurance. Others have reasons for 
not wanting to join such an organization. These naturally resent com- 
pulsory membership. There is another type of man who needs the 
protection and could be led to join the organization, but the moment 
he is coerced he is immediately antagonized, feeling resentful toward 
the association and the employer. 

"Still greater evil in the compulsory membership plan comes 
from the fact that the time keepers or other clerks who administer the 
benefits or collect the dues unconsciously develop habits of autocracy, 
which inevitably manifest themselves in their remarks and actions. 
These things very quickly increase any tendency to friction between 
the employer and the working force. 

" Voluntary Membership Should be Followed. The next thing is 
to develop selling plans which will lead to 80 or 90 per cent, of the 
employees becoming members. This can be and is being done in 
many institutions. The one most effective selling plan is to secure 
the co-operation of the employment manager and foremen. When 
a man comes on to a new job is the psychological moment to get his 
membership. One essential in a case of this kind is to have an enthu- 
siastic membership, so that any inquiries on his part will result in 
favorable response from fellow workers. To secure this the member- 



762 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

ship must be in mind also to keep them informed of the favorable 
progress being made. 

" Some corporations have offered bonus plans to departments secur- 
ing a satisfactory percentage of membership. These have not seemed 
to work out satisfactorily because of the difficulty of administration. 

"Benefits and Average Cost to Employees. While the cost is of the 
most interest to employers and employees, the amount of dues must 
necessarily hinge upon the amount of benefits paid to members. 
Statistics covering about 600 organizations show that one dollar 
(SI. 00) per day for disability due to either sickness or accident, 
beginning on the fourth day after disability begins and continuing 
for not to exceed thirteen weeks, is by far the most popular form of 
benefit. Under present wage conditions it seems inadequate. Using 
this benefit as a basis of calculation, it develops that with about 350,000 
members the cost for such benefits should run less than ten cents per 
week, allowing a factor of safety of about one-third. 

"Coupled with the disability benefits we almost invariably have 
death benefits of $100.00. Such a death benefit calls for weekly dues 
of two and one-half cents (2)^.). These two benefits combined 
produce a total of twelve and one-half cents (12^^.) per week. The 
amount of benefits may be varied greatly to suit different conditions. 
The cost should be in proportion provided the membership is repre- 
sentative; that is, that it embraces at least 70 per cent, of the number 
of employees and that there are in the association 200 or 300 members. 
The organizations of 500 members are able to benefit from the experi- 
ence of the wider average of members. 

"Rather than to allow the secretary or other official of the association 
to collect dues by calling on the members, most of which would be done 
on company time, it is far better for the employer and immensely 
more successful for the association to have the dues deducted from the 
pay, the member signing an order on the paymaster for that purpose. 
This has been found to be practically the only successful way of collect- 
ing dues. 

"Employer's Contribution. Employees do not look for and it seems 
unwise for an employer to make contributions to an association of 
this kind. Such contributions immediately give rise to wonderment 
as to the m'otive behind them and frequently result in unfavorable 
impressions. Any contributions on the part of the employer should 
be made in the form of his co-operation in an advisory capacity and by 
permitting one or more employees to devote such time as may be 
required to the intelligent conduct of the work. The average mind 
does not recognize such as a contribution on the part of the employer. 
Such an employee may be of inestimable value to the association and 
accordingly to the employer. 



EMPLOYEES' MUTUAL BENEFIT ASSOCIATIONS 763 

"Forms of Benefits. In a very few of these associations it is cus- 
tomary to make the benefits a given percentage of the wages. That 
plan offers some advantages, but on the other hand there are 
many disadvantages due to obstacles encountered in administration. 
The calculation and deduction of dues each week or pay day in- 
volves a good deal of clerical work and chance for error, and it is 
generally considered that the fixed amount of benefits and dues are 
preferable. 

"Some organizations provide for different amounts of benefits and 
corresponding dues to take care of those members who realize the value 
of the protection. Sociologists and others who have carefully analyzed 
the situation have reached the conclusion that benefits should begin 
on the fourth day following the beginning of disability. This elimi- 
nates that large number of cases of one, two and three days duration. 
Cases of three days do not involve a member in any financial em- 
barrassment but what he can overcome. If benefits were made to 
include these three days of disability the large number of short time 
cases would prove a very heavy drain on the treasury and result in 
much higher dues being necessary to carry the insurance. After all, 
the benefits are purely a matter of what the men are willing to pay for. 
It is unwise though to select benefits which call for dues so high as to 
prove unattractive. 

"Some associations have a plan in force whereby members disabled 
for more than two weeks receive benefits for the first three days as well. 
This is a bad practice, because it is equivalent to offering a bonus for 
prolonged sickness. For example, if a member is sick a little less than 
two weeks he will be very quick to realize that if he will only pretend 
sickness for the balance of the two weeks the association will not only 
pay him the benefits for those few days but in addition will hand him a 
bonus of benefits covering the first three days of disability. 

"Benefits are regularly paid for thirteen weeks covering either 
sickness or accident. Work accidents aa well as those occurring 
outside of the plant are almost invariably included. In the cases of 
men drawing compensation it sometimes happens that members are 
receiving benefits in excess of wages. This will result in malingering 
unless something is done to counteract the influence. A provision in 
the By-laws where benefits from all sources shall not exceed 90 per cent, 
of wages has been successfully used in the association among employees 
of the Dodge Manufacturing Company. 

"In the case of salaried people benefits under this plan cannot 
begin until salary ceases. In cases of compensation for injury the 
'Indiana law provides for 55 per cent, of wages after the first week. 
The association pays full benefits for the last four days of the first week 
and the difference between 55 per cent, and 90 per cent, thereafter, 



764 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

provided it does not exceed the amount of insurance carried by the 
member. 

"Free Medical Care. One very live topic among organizations at 
this time is that of free medical care. There seems to be very little 
in the way of crystallized opinion on that subject, although some- 
thing definite should result from so much thought being applied to 
the subject. 

"In cases where employers have industrial physicians attached 
to the plants certain medical care has been given, but in all of these 
cases the disposition seems to be to make this a contribution of the 
employer rather than of the association. It remains for some in- 
dustrial physician to evolve a plan whereby such associations may 
render medical assistance to members without encountering the dis- 
advantages which have so far led to failure wherever attempts have 
been made. 

"The Human Side of Employees Benefit Associations. A well 
handled organization may be made the means of many other self 
helps for employees. Going back to the case of loss in production due 
to worry of the workers. We may consider the cases of men worried 
over their debts as well as over sickness. The more these men are 
worried the less ' pep ' they have and the lower production drops. 

"I recall one case of a man who borrowed $80.00 of a loan shark, 
and after paying $1.00 per week for eight years he still owed $47.00 of 
the loan. This matter was brought to the attention of the officers of 
the E. B. A. Investigation showed that these loans had been made 
each month for thirty days and that interest and renewal charges had 
almost eaten up all that he paid in, which accounted for the condition 
of the account. 

"Another man received $55.00 from a loan shark and gave his 
thirty day note for $60.00. At the end of the month he attempted to 
pay $5.00 on the principal. He discovered, however, that it would 
cost him $3.00 to renew the remaining $55.00 and that the interest for 
the thirty days amounted to $2.00, so that it took all of his $5.00 pay- 
ment to make up the interest and the renewal charge; consequently, 
he still owed $60.00 after paying $5.00. This had continued for twelve 
months. Each month he had paid $5.00 without making any im- 
pression upon the note. This was also brought before the officers 
of the same organization. In the first case the matter was placed 
forcibly before the shark and the man was told to refuse further pay- 
ment and that the E. B. A. would see him through in case of trouble. 
In the second case, arrangements were made to take up the loan and 
handle it upon a more just basis through another medium. 

" Unfortunately the human being is not normally gifted with the 
ability to accumulate money. The thrift habit seems to be absolutely 






EMPLOYEES MUTUAL BENEFIT ASSOCIATIONS 765 

an acquired taste, requiring pretty strong incentives to develop it. 
Every person has occasional need for cash in excess of that on hand. 
These cases may be at the time of moving, buying furniture, putting 
in the winter's coal or potatoes, in case of sickness, childbirth, death, 
etc. Regardless of the cause, some proper method of satisfying the 
need must be created if an employer is going to prevent the disastrous 
results among his workers which will surely follow if they get into the 
hands of loan sharks. 

" Experience shows that these money lenders are often found right 
in the plant. Some foremen have been found to conduct loaning 
schemes with very injurious results, so that they often exist where we 
least suspect them. 

" An employee who finds it necessary to frequently borrow money 
somewhere back in the rear of his head has a notion that he is not paid 
sufficiently to permit a proper living. It is among such men that labor 
agitators find a very fertile field. A man who has not developed the 
thrift habit will never be out of debt, no matter how much his wages 
amount to. 

" We are now up to the point of developing a vision for the man. 
We must bring him to a point where he wants something and wants it 
very much and where he can see that by systematic saving he may 
be able to secure the thing he thus desires. If we can bring him to 
see the value to himself of a bank account he will do the rest. He 
must have more than a hazy glimpse of money in the bank. He 
needs a firmly implanted vision of the nearness of the things he wants 
so that he will not look upon the task as a hopeless one. If he ever 
gets such a vision you cannot stop him. 

" To bring this situation about the E. B. A. should be induced to 
add to its activities the function of a Thrift Club. On account of legal 
technicalities it may seem desirable to go through the formalities of a 
separate Club, electing the same officers as those for the E. B. A., so 
that the work of the two may be handled without the need for separate 

meetings. 

" These Thrift Clubs are doing wonderful work in teaching men 
to make ends meet, instilling the principle of Thrift into the remotest 
corners of the plant. One man who had been in debt for fifteen years 
and honestly believed that he did not receive enough to permit him to 
live decently has demonstrated not to others but to himself that he is 
able to get out of debt and in time to pay for his home. Many of these 
cases are very touching and provide the greatest amount of encourage- 
ment to those who are instrumental in promoting such Thrift 

Clubs. 

"The Employees' Benefit Association in Preventive Work. 
endeavoring to reach employees with any new line of thought it is 



766 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

necessary to begin on the plane in which they are in the habit of think- 
ing. For example, imagine a manufacturing plant where the toilet 
facilities have been left pretty largely to each department to look 
after and nothing out of the ordinary provided in the way of toilet 
rooms no tile floors or walls, merely ordinary kind of janitor service, 
etc. In a great many cases it has been shown clearly that under 
such circumstances these toilets will be quite unsanitary; in fact, to 
one who has been accustomed to properly maintained toilet facilities 
they are especially offensive. 

"A physician entering such a plant would naturally be very un- 
favorably impressed with the toilets, and his first desire would be to 
clean them up, buy new and modern equipment and to insist that 
they be kept in a highly sanitary condition. Such toilets would fail 
absolutely because the employees have grown accustomed to the kind 
they are using and, in fact, such toilets really reflect the minds of the 
majority of the men who use them; otherwise, they would be more 
sanitary. Before those toilets can ever be fully sanitary and main- 
tained in that condition the material make-up of the men must be 
changed. . 

"This illustration I am applying to toilet facilities has a similar 
bearing upon any phase of health movements. A physician desiring 
to improve the condition of men in a plant will then find the most valu- 
able assistance in the Employees' Benefit Association. This organi- 
zation is of, by and for the employees. They have certain needs and 
have learned to recognize then* problems. A physician by beginning 
with their viewpoint will find that they are much more ready to follow 
his teachings than if he starts with any other point of view. 

"As a side light on the value of preventive medicine to the em- 
ployer, there is in mind an instance in a large plant during the Influenza 
Epidemic of 1918. This employer called together all the departmental 
foremen to listen to a talk by the physician/ In this talk they were 
informed of the various symptoms by which they might recognize 
certain possible victims of the epidemic. After the physician had 
finished the foremen were instructed to keep their eyes open for workers 
who showed any of these symptoms and that such be immediately 
referred to the medical department. As a matter of fact, only about 
one-third of those referred for examination proved to have influenza 
or anything which might lead to it, so that only one-third were sent 
home and given medical treatment. 

"The illuminating part of this instance develops through one 
foreman who did not co-operate. A week or two after this particular 
foremen's meeting it developed that the plant was in rather favorable 
condition except one department and that was nearly shut down be- 
cause so many of the employees were sick with influenza. Investiga- 



EMPLOYEES' MUTUAL BENEFIT ASSOCIATIONS 767 

tion disclosed the fact that this foreman thought that precautions of 
this kind were unnecessary, so he paid no attention to the instructions, 
preferring to keep a man on the job as long as he could stick. He had 
made no effort to watch his men, allowing them to do as they pleased 
about coming to work. When the management discovered the real 
situation it became necessary to thoroughly fumigate the whole 
department and to make physical examinations of everyone in it 
who was not yet sick, sending home those who showed symptoms. 
The loss in production in that department was exceedingly great for 
the following two weeks. The contrast between this department and 
the others was very conclusive evidence of the value of this preventive 
medicine. 

" On the whole, the interest in Employees' Benefit Associations is 
growing constantly. Corporations throughout the country are en- 
couraging employees to form organizations of this kind and are co- 
operating with them to increase the membership. Evidence is 
conclusive that they have proven a real asset to the employer wherever 
installed." 



PART VI 
RECONSTRUCTION 



CHAPTER XLVII 



THE INDUSTRIAL SURGEON'S PLACE IN THIS PROGRAM 

Another great benefit of the present war has been the awakening 
of our nation to the fact that a large proportion of its citizenry is 
composed of foreigners who have never become americanized. We 
have welcomed these immigrants to our shores but have made no con- 
certed, national effort to assimilate them. Content with the knowledge 
that in one or two generations they would become good Americans, 
we have allowed the recent arrivals to live, think, eat, drink and act 
as foreigners. 

The great number of naturalized foreigners who still gave their 
full allegiance to the home country has awakened us to our shortsight- 
edness in this connection. The Bolsheviki movement in Russia was 
augmented, more than is generally known, by the peoples from that 
country who lived in our midst for years as radicals and anarchists 
and then were allowed to return to Russia to spread the seeds of 
discontent and even of hatred of the United States throughout the 
ignorant, dissatisfied radical element of Russia. Our failure to ameri- 
canize these peoples places a part of the responsibility for Russia's 
downfall upon our shoulders. 

These facts are awakening the nation to its duty toward the large 
foreign population which dwells in the land. Whether we have suffi- 
ciently learned our lesson to profit by it remains to be seen. 

Already the army has done excellent work in making real citizens 
out of the foreign draftees. Such men as Taft and Roosevelt have 
stirred the country by their pleas for a united American citizenry in 
the future. The Carnegie Foundation has recently given a large sum 
of money for the creation of a permanent organization whose functions 
are best described by its name "Study of Methods of Americaniza- 
tion." These efforts are prophetic of tte changed attitude of the 
country. 

The medical profession, and especially those physicians who are 
49 769 



770 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



connected with large industries, come in very close contact with this 
foreign element; see them at their work and at home; and realize more 
than most people the needed reforms in order to make the immigrant 
more nearly like the remainder of the population. It is imperative, 
therefore, for the physician to take a prominent part in this american- 
ization program and to point out to industry, the commuriity and the 
state their responsibilities and the corrective measures needed. 

How many times has the physician in industry been confronted 
with cases similar to the following : 

John Zurowsky had worked for his concern four years. He was 
a good, faithful employee, but had not advanced because he could 
neither read nor write English and spoke it very poorly. His foreman 
noticed that John was looking badly and had lately fallen behind in 
his work. He was, therefore, sent to the doctor's office. 

A nurse who talked John's language learned that his wife and one 
of his children were very sick and John had been up nursing them at 
night for several weeks. They had been treated by four different 
doctors until all of his savings were spent. Then he had taken his 
child to the free dispensary and sent his wife to the County Hospital. 
The doctors at the hospital had advised an operation, but as no one 
there could talk to her she insisted on coming home. The child might 
have been helped at the free dispensary but the mother was not able 
to take her there and the father had to work in the daytime. For 
the last month he had been giving them "Easymon" which a neigh- 
bor said was a sure cure, and showed him a Polish paper which also 
extolled the medicine. In spite of all this his wife and child were 
growing worse. 

The plant physician and the nurse visited John's home at once. 
He lived in a squalid, foreign neighborhood, in a flat third floor, rear. 

There were five children, the oldest aged ten, and John and his 
wife living here in four rooms. The rooms were filthy because, as 
John explained, the children mussed them up during the day even 
though he cleaned up good at night. The windows were tightly closed 
and sanitary conditions were of the worst. 

The wife was examined and found to have an inoperable cancer of 
the uterus. This was undoubtedly found at the hospital but when she 
left no agency of the county saw fit to follow up the case. The cancer 
could not have been diagnosed by any one of the four doctors who had 
treated her, as none of them had made an examination. 

The child was found to have a pulmonary tuberculosis which had 
evidently not been diagnosed on the one visit to the free dispensary. 

The conditions in this home were explained to the management and 
the doctor was told to spare no expense in helping them as far as possi- 
ble at this late stage. 



AMERICANIZATION OF THE FOREIGN EMPLOYEE 771 

John's wife was sent to a hospital where she occupied a bed in a 
two-bed ward. The entire history of the case was told to the nurses 
and they were stimulated to exert themselves to the utmost to make 
amends for the poor woman's past sufferings. She was kept here 
until her death six weeks later. 

The child was sent to a tuberculosis sanatorium, the expenses being 
paid by the management, and, after a year, recovered. 

A small house in the suburbs, which rented for exactly the same 
sum that John had been paying, was found for the rest of the family. 
His wages were increased so he could afford to employ a housekeeper. 
An American woman was found for this position and she was a marvel 
in americanizing John and his children. 

The lessons which this foreigner's case point out are characteristic 
of hundreds of thousands of other immigrant employees in the various 
industries of the country to-day. These can be summarized as follows : 

1. Different standards of living in his foreign home. 

2. Crowding into a tenement in that portion of the city where 
those of his own nationality had congregated. 

3. No incentive to learn our language or our standards of living. 

4. Inadequate wages to provide proper food and proper living 
conditions for his family. 

5. Ignorance of our language and our customs prevented proper 
treatment of his wife's condition. (The four doctors' failure to examine 
her prevented an early diagnosis of the case.) 

6. Insanitary surroundings caused his child's tuberculosis. 

7. Finally, interest on the part of his employer enabled the correc- 
tion of all these conditions except that this interest came too late to 
save his wife. 

The problem of the immigrant employee is the problem of industry 
and of the community. The medical staffs in industry and the 
municipal public health services can render the greatest assistance 
in solving this problem. 

The existing national emergency has demonstrated, however, that 
this is a national problem and one which the Federal government 
must tackle. National health and educational commissions are neces- 
sary to properly cope with the situation, not'only for the foreign-born 
citizens but for the native American; the war has demonstrated the 
extent of illiteracy among our people. 

Miss Linda James of the executive staff of the society for the 
"Study of Methods of Americanization" has made the following 
contribution to this book in which she most forcibly expresses the 
part which industrial medicine can play in these problems of the im- 
migrant employee. 

"The immigrant has come to play such an important part in the 



772 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

life of our nation to-day that it has become necessary to give special 
attention to the problems which he has brought with him. Among 
these is that of his relation to the industrial world. While probably 
all manufacturers are conscious that they employ numbers of foreign- 
ers, a few figures may make more evident the importance of giving 
special consideration to this group in industry to-day. 

"In 1908-1909 the United States Immigration Commission made 
an investigation of 'Immigrants in Industries' which contains much 
valuable material for the industrial physician. It has been condensed 
by Jenks and Lauck in their book 1 from which the following quotations 
were taken: 

" 'It was found that only one-fifth of the total number of wage- 
earners in twenty-one of the principal branches of industry were native 
white Americans, while almost three-fifths were of foreign birth; 17 
per cent, were industrial workers of the second generation, or of native 
birth but of foreign father, and 5 per cent, were native negroes. About 
30 per cent, of all the females, as contrasted with only 14 per cent, of 
the men, are native born of foreign father. 

" 'Altogether, fifty-six distinct races appeared in the working forces 
of the mines and manufacturing establishments included in the recent 
comprehensive inquiry of the Immigration Commission. Thirty- 
seven of these races were of the south and east of Europe or of the 
Orient. Almost one-half of all the wage-earners were from southern 
and eastern European countries. 

" 'The proportion of foreign born among the operative forces of the 
principal branches of manufacturing and mining were as follows : 

" 'More than one-half of the iron and steel workers, employees of 
oil refineries, slaughtering and meat-packing establishments, furniture 
factories, leather tanneries and finishing establishments, woolen and 
worsted goods, and cotton-mill operatives; about two-fifths of the 
glass workers; one-third of the silk-mill operatives, glove factory 
employees, and cigar and tobacco makers; seven-tenths of men and 
women garment makers; more than one-fourth of the boot and shoe 
factory operatives; four-fifths of the wage-earners in sugar refineries.' 

"According to the United States Census of 1910, 59.9 per cent, of 
the foreign born in this country were between the ages of 15 and 45 
years. 2 This means that a large part of the immigrants spend at 
least one-third of their lives in the industrial world; consequently the 
problem of assimilation is an industrial as well as a community one. 

"Ignorance and lack of understanding of English are important 
factors to be considered in discussing the relation between the 

1 "The Immigration Problem," Jenks and Lauck, 1917 edition, pages 148-9. 
are made: 

2 13th Census of the United States, 1910, "Population," Vol. 1, page 307. 



AMERICANIZATION OF THE FOREIGN EMPLOYEE .773 

immigrant employee and industrial medicine. That many accidents 
are due to these causes is an accepted fact. Testimony in this regard 
is especially plentiful from the mining fields. 1 Their relation to 
industrial disease is not so well established. It is entirely reasonable 
to suppose, however, that certain poisons, like lead for instance, 
would be a more serious menace to a foreigner who could not under- 
stand its dangers than to a native American who can comprehend 
cautions and directions. As an industrial health inspector I have 
run across numerous instances of this kind. Of the 246,673 foreign- 
born employees included in the Federal investigation only 53.2 per 
cent, spoke English; 38.6 per cent, of the 34,957 women and 55.6 per 
cent, of the 211,716 men. Of the incoming immigrants for the five- 
year period preceding the study 28.6 per cent, were English speaking. 2 
An industry that hopes to lower its accident and industrial disease 
rates must then give consideration to the question of illiteracy among 
its foreign employees. 

"In addition to the illiteracy of the more recent immigrants from 
southern and southeastern Europe has come the question of standards 
of sanitation which they bring with them. Most of these people are 
peasants direct from the farms of Europe who know nothing of 
urban and industrial conditions and demands. The condition of 
their homes and their manner of living are much below the accepted 
American standards. 3 Consequently the general sanitation of any 
plant is lowered by their presence unless measures are taken to teach 
them our standards. 

"The housing of the foreign employees outside the plant is another 
factor to be considered. When those who are used to farm life and who 
have low standards of sanitation are herded together in tenements, 
or in old houses formerly occupied by single families, unhealthful 
results can be expected. In the more recent immigration it is the 
young unmarried men who come alone first, bringing over their 
families in the later years. This is especially true among the Greeks 
and certain of the Slavs. The communal system of living developed by 
these single men leads to serious overcrowding. Thirty-four per cent, 
of the 15,127 households of the foreign born included in the Federal 
study had seven or more persons per household, as against 13.8 per 
cent, of the native born of native parents; 9 per cent, had ten or more 
per household, as against 1 per cent, of the natives. Over three 

1 "The Immigration Problem," Jenks and Lauck, 1917 edition, pages 201, 
477-9. 

2 13th Census of the U. S., Vol. I. 

3 "Our Slavic Fellow Citizens," Balch, Emily G.; "Russian Life in Town and 
Country," Palmer, F. H.; "The Slav Invasion and the Mine Workers," Warae, 
F. J. 



774 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

people to a bedroom was a common finding among these foreign- 
born households. Thirty-two and nine-tenths per cent, of the 15,127 
households kept boarders; only 9.9 per cent, of the native born kept 
them. 1 The diseased immigrant living under such conditions is a 
menace to the community and to those living and laboring with him. 

"The food habits of the foreigners in the old world and the new are 
also of interest to the industrial physician. The southern Europeans 
seem to find it hardest to adapt their diet to the demands of our 
northern climate. Rickets among the Italian children with the 
attendent underdevelopment which that means for the adult is a 
common finding by nursing associations and hospitals. That indus- 
trial physicians are thinking about food in relation to the health of 
their immigrant employees is evidenced by the fact that out of 70 
questionaires recently returned from them, 17 per cent, mentioned 
this as a distinct problem. 

"Racial drink idiosyncrasies are an industrial health problem also. 
Certain races (the Italians, Jews and Greeks), though they drink, 
do not get drunk; while others (the Irish and French Canadians) 
are noted for heavy drinking. It is interesting to note in this connec- 
tion that the death-rate from tuberculosis among the Irish leads all 
other nationalities. Industries employing chiefly Irish and French 
Canadians have had to accept the absences from work on Mondays 
and even Tuesdays because of the Sunday sprees. 2 Some plants 
have endeavored to stop drinking of intoxicating liquors during 
working hours, with its consequent lowering of efficiency and accuracy, 
by providing at cost other drinks in various parts of the building. 
Cocoa, coffee, milk, soft drinks, etc., have met with favor and with 
some degree of success. 

"The medical care which is available to the immigrant and his 
family with its effect on the working capacity of the employee is the 
last point I shall speak of. One industrial physician has described the 
present situation as 'highway robbery for the employee.' And so it is. 
A first class doctor cannot be called in by the employee for sickness of 
himself or his family because of the expense; even a second class one 
charges a fee out of keeping with the income of the worker. Such a 
thing as a family physician is seldom found among the foreigners. 
They shift from doctor to doctor on the advice of neighbors; or what is 
worse resort to quacks and patent medicines for rapid and cheap cures. 
A survey of the quack medical advertising to be found in foreign 
language newspapers gives one an idea of what a flourishing business 
this is among the immigrants. As a last resort the employee may call 

1 "The Immigration Problem," Jenks and Lauck, 1917 edition, pages 505 
and 507. 

2 ' 'The Greeks in America, " Burgess, Thomas. 



AMERICANIZATION OF THE FOREIGN EMPLOYEE 775 

on some charitable organization. This means that more days of work 
are going to be lost through illness of the worker or his family than if 
competent and moderate priced medical care were within his reach at 
the beginning of illness. Whether this is a problem for industry to 
solve, for the community, or for both to solve together remains to be 
seen. 

"In conclusion there are certain important questions which I would 
like to leave with the industrial physician for his further consideration: 

"1. How is industry going to eliminate industrial accidents and dis- 
eases which can be attributed to the foreign employee's ignorance and 
lack of knowledge of the English language? 

"2. Is education advisable; and if so, should it be carried on by the 
industry, by the public schools, by private organizations like the Y. W. 
or Y. M. C. A., or by some other method? 

"3. Are posters and literature in foreign languages relating to 
accidents, industrial diseases, sanitation, and personal hygiene going 
to be valuable in bettering the health of the employee and his family? 

"4. What is the responsibility of industry toward its immigrant 
employees and their families in regard to the following: Medical care 
during illness of either the worker or his family; food, at home as well 
as in the plant; drink; personal hygiene; and housing?" 



CHAPTER XLVIII 

HUMAN CONSERVATION AND RECLAMATION OF 
THE DISABLED 

Physical reconstruction, rehabilitation, functional re-education, 
occupational therapy, vocational re-education and similar terms have 
either sprung into existence or derived a new meaning during the 
present world struggle. The hundreds of thousands of disabled 
soldiers returning to civil life have made it necessary for the nations to 
devise plans for their reclamation. As a result a new viewpoint has 
been attained by the medical profession, by various educational agen- 
cies, by both industry and labor, and by many legislative bodies a 
viewpoint which must be moulded and adapted to the reclamation of 
the disabled in civil life. 

The United States, following the example of other warring nations, 
has adopted a plan to physically reconstruct, functionally re-educate, 
and completely rehabilitate all of her disabled soldiers. Congress, in 
June, 1917, pledged this service by passing the War Risk Insurance 
Act. The necessity of conserving our man power, as well as the debt 
which the nation owes these disabled soldiers, makes such a program 
obligatory. 

By physical reconstruction is meant the continued and complete 
medical and surgical treatment until the greatest possible restoration 
of the disabled parts has been secured. Functional re-education con- 
sists of various methods to restore function in a disabled part, or to 
train other members to new work, or to teach the amputated cases the 
use of artificial appliances. In other words; it is combining with our 
surgical procedure, which aims at his physical repair, certain other 
therapeutic measures which will help the patient to functionally over- 
come his handicap. Occupational therapy is the use of some form of 
work which will bring into action certain muscles and members of the 
body thus assisting in their functional restoration, or which will keep 
the mind and body busy during the long period of convalescence and 
thus prevent hospitalization and habits of idleness. 

Rehabilitation, or the refitting of the disabled man to an in- 
dependent economic position in society, consists of measures which are 
neither medical nor surgical but which can often begin during the 
course of his medical treatment. Thus, the work of rehabilitation laps 
over into the hospital treatment and, in many cases, continues for an 

776 



CONSERVATION AND RECLAMATION OF THE DISABLED 777 

indefinite period after the work of the physician has been completed. 
In the majority of cases the functional re-education, especially the 
occupational therapy, can be made so practicable that it will dovetail 
with the rehabilitation. 

No matter how honorable the wound or the disease that incapaci- 
tates one, no man likes to be classed as "disabled." It sounds too 
much like being "put on the shelf." In warfare a certain percentage 
of the soldiers is bound to become disabled; very few need remain so. 
The number of disabilities sufficiently serious to place a man in the 
discard are very rare. Practically every man, no matter how handi- 
capped he may be, can come back. In fact a handicap puts more 
fight into a man, makes him strive harder than ever before, and results 
quite often in his making good to a greater extent than if he had never 
been disabled. 

A soldier who lost both legs recently said: "Watch me! I am going 
to make good with both feet." And he has. This is the spirit ! Deter- 
mination and grit stick-to-it-iveness are the qualities which every 
disabled man must have or must acquire in order to crawl out or jump 
out of that despised category the crippled. As long as the brain 
power of a man remains, enabling him to will, to choose and to 
persevere in effort, he is a long .way from being a permanent cripple or 
a permanent invalid. 

One is crippled only to that extent to which he allows his physical 
handicap to put him down and out. If he ceases to be an economic 
factor in society an earning, serving unit he is a cripple. But if in 
spite of his handicap he overcomes his disability, trains himself for 
work and becomes a productive citizen once more, he is no longer 
classed as a cripple. 

A man living in Kansas, who had been confined to his bed for years, 
the result of a form of paralysis, had become the owner and superin- 
tendent of a large publishing business. He was a printer formerly. 
When asked to describe how an invalid in his condition could 
accomplish so much, he said: "I am not an invalid: I am a business 
man." His advice was that no matter how permanently disease ties 
up the body, keep the mind alert and active. Make it work for you. 
Become independent. The man who gives up to his disabilities is an 
"invalid;" the man who overcomes them is a force. 

As a nation we have failed to teach such ideas as these to our boys 
and girls. We have failed to help our citizens, who have become per- 
manently handicapped, back to the road where they can go on by their 
own initiative. Too often the disabled man has passively accepted 
his fate, and his friends have allowed him to loaf, or to accept a position 
where no incentive or future existed, such as the proverbial watchman. 
These cripples and invalids, seeing the money made by professional 



778 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



beggars, have even drifted into that class. Every nation in this war 
has awakened to the fact that some men with the worst kinds of 
handicaps have become successful, useful citizens. Therefore, why 
cannot all men, and especially the soldiers disabled because of war 
duty? So with one accord these nations have provided the means of 
reclaiming their disabled soldiers and of giving them proper training 
for the future in order that they may make good by their own efforts. 

The medical department of the United States Army at the very 
beginning of this war made plans for reclaiming these soldiers. After 
other wars our country provided soldiers' homes for many of the 
disabled, or provided pensions to help the crippled man eke out a living 
at some mediocre job. The soldiers and sailors of to-day would not be 
satisfied with such an arrangement. They have made the great sacri- 
fice for their country in her efforts to give liberty to the world. Their 
country, therefore, must provide a future of liberty and independence 
for them. Thus the government has evolved excellent plans for the 
physical reconstruction and rehabilitation of disabled soldiers and 
many are receiving the benefits thereof. 

There is another soldier, the industrial soldier, the soldier of the 
second line of defense, the great industrial army which is just as 
essential to the winning of any war as is the military army, and the man 
who becomes disabled and wounded without the glorification that 
comes from such wounds when received on the battlefield. Our nation 
must recognize the rights of these disabled men from industry arid 
provide for their reconstruction and rehabilitation likewise. 

PHYSICAL RECONSTRUCTION IN THE ARMY 

Before discussing the reclamation of the industrial disabled a short 
resume of the physical reconstruction work in the army will give a 
clearer understanding of this phase of medical and surgical work and 
its relationship to complete rehabilitation. , 

It has been difficult to make many of our people, both laymen and 
physicians, understand that physical reconstruction and rehabilitation 
are not entirely new departures in the treatment of sick and wounded. 
Boiled down to simple language, however, this work simply means that 
every soldier disabled by disease, accident or war wounds must be cured 
and made fit for work. To accomplish this continued medical and 
surgical care must be given until his disability is cured or the maximum 
improvement attained; during this treatment every therapeutic 
adjunct such as physiotherapy, occupational therapy, curative work 
and any other agency capable of hastening recovery must be employed ; 
and for those whose handicaps unfit them for their old occupations 
some form of vocational training must be given, preferably starting 
during their convalescent days and continuing as long thereafter as is 



CONSERVATION AND RECLAMATION OF THE DISABLED 779 

necessary to refit them for an independent existence. All of this is 
done for the purpose of returning every disabled soldier to civilian life 
once more as a productive, economic unit able to carry on by his own 
physical powers, or, if this is impossible because of the nature of his 
handicap, then by his mental powers. 

Thus it is evident that the medical and surgical treatment involved 
in reconstruction is not new, except perhaps that the value of certain 
therapeutic adjunts has been emphasized. But an absolutely new 
viewpoint for the majority of physicians and for the laymen in general 
has been injected into the practice of medicine, namely all standards 
of treatment in the future must be judged by the economic end-results 
obtained. 

It was realized that if permanent good to the nation was to result 
from these reconstruction efforts this new viewpoint must be spread 
broadcast throughout the land. 
Not only must physicians be 
imbued with these principles, 
but industry, labor, all educa- 
tional agencies, and the entire 
civilian population must be 
made copartners in this great 
work. Therefore, the Surgeon 
General's Office started a nation- 
wide educational campaign on 
the reconstruction and rehabi- ^ 

FIG. 202. By means of the whirl-pool 
litation of the disabled Soldiers, bath, a cold, clammy, swpllen limb becomes 

constantly pointing out the red f nd - , Freque ?* "P*^ hel P s 

. * re-establish circulation. (Carry On.) 

application of these principles 

to the civilian disabled. This publicity work was greatly enhanced 
by similar propaganda sent out by the American Red Cross, the 
Federal Board of Vocational Education, the American Red Cross 
Institutes for the Crippled and for the Blind and by several states 
through their Departments of Industry and Labor. 

As a result of this educational work the entire country is at last 
awake to the need of preventing disabilities, and when disabilities do 
occur to the necessity of reclaiming the victims and returning them to 
a useful existence once more. To-day it is possible to inaugurate 
reforms which will correct the prodigality of our nation toward human 
life and human energy. 

Prior to this war the army regulations required that all disabled 
soldiers becoming unfit for full military service should be discharged at 
once. In other words, following the custom in vogue in many 
industries, such men were "scrapped" with very little thought, 
beyond that of pension, being given to their future. In May, 1918, 




780 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



the reconstruction policy was finally approved by the Secretary of War 
and since then few disabled soldiers have been discharged until "the 
most complete physical, functional and mental restoration has been 
attained, or is possible to attain when the nature of the disabilities are 
considered." 

Several general hospitals have been utilized to carry out the 




intent of this ploicy. In these hospitals thousands of disabled soldiers 
have been treated, or are now under treatment, always with the view 
of accomplishing their complete cure or their maximum improvement. 
Every conceivable type of disability is presented including many cases 
with multiple disabilities. They can be grouped under the following 
classes according to their frequency: (1) The neuropsychiatric cases; 
(2) the tuberculous; (3) the orthopedic, including amputation cases, 



CONSERVATION AND RECLAMATION OF THE DISABLED 781 



and the deformities following infections, scar contractures, certain 
fractures, etc.; (4) the cardiovascular; (5) the general medical and 
surgical cases; (6) the blind and the deaf. 

The neuropsychiatric patients have been segregated in a center 
consisting of a hospital and barracks. -Here it has been found that 
discipline, work, play, exercise, hydrotherapy and intelligent hand- 
ling combined with constant effort to improve their morale has been 
the best means of restoring these soldiers to the point where they could 
be discharged. 

The tuberculous have been sent to special sanatoria and, in addi- 
tion to the routine treatment, schools and shops have been provided 
where these patients could receive the benefits of work and study as 
soon as their conditions permitted. Play, work and physical drills 



PROPOSED RECONSTKVCTION DEPARTMENTAL HOSPITAL 




FIG. 204. Forty-seven large army hospitals are now carrying on physical 

reconstruction. 

have been found the most excellent adjuncts toward hastening the 
cure of these soldiers. As far as possible the work has been made 
practical with a view of improving their future economic state. In- 
stead of seeing the typical group of hospitalized tuberculous patients 
one finds here an apparently healthy group of young men engaged 
in many different activities. Their morale is good and as a general 
rule they are anxious to remain until cured. 

Many orthopedic cases are under treatment at Walter Reed Hos- 
pital. The patients with amputations, between six and seven hundred 
at present, are fitted as soon as possible with their artificial appliances. 
For a certain period every day each patient receives some form of physio- 
therapy such as massage, special exercise to facilitate motion of the 
stump; also occupational and mechanotherapy, and special instruction 



782 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



in the use of his artificial member. As soon as his general condition 
permits study and work begins in the schools and shops adjacent to 
the hospital. Excellent educational facilities have been provided 
not only for these cases but for all other convalescents. There are 
primary classes for the illiterates, higher grades for the others who 
were never permitted to complete their education, and college courses 




for the boys who quit the universities to go to the front. Shorthand,, 
typewriting, bookkeeping, telegraphy and many other commercial 
courses are available. Those who have lost their right arms are 
soon taught to write with their left. 

In the shops these amputation cases, patients with deformities, 
and many other types of convalescents receive work which will hasten 
their functional restoration and at the same time return them to better 



CONSERVATION AND RECLAMATION OF THE DISABLED 783 




FIG. 206. Training disabled soldiers in art work and sign painting during their con- 
valescent days exemplifies the efforts to attain an economic end-result. 



til 




FIG. 207. Motor mechanics and other forms of shop work hasten the restoration of 
function and will return many disabled soldiers to better jobs in civil life. 



784 



INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 



jobs in civil life. The various illustrations give an excellent idea of 
these different therapeutic adjuncts which help in the physical recon- 
struction of these disabled soldiers. 

In all the general hospitals where the different types of special 

cases are collected some form of occupational therapy, curative work 

and study and a certain amount of vocational education is being given. 

The re-education of the blind soldiers forms one of the greatest 

examples of combining medical and economic treatment. Previous 

to the war there were some 
10 or 12 trades and pro- 
fessions that the majority 
of blind people entered in 
order to eke out a liveli- 
hood, for example broom 
making, piano tuning, bas- 
ketry, etc. As a part of the 
plans for the blind soldiers' 
future, industrial engineers, 
working under the direction 
of Lt. Colonel James Bord- 
ley, have made, extensive 
surveys of many different 
industries and have already 
found 208 different occu- 
pations which these men 
can perform after a certain 
amount of training. Men 
blinded in industry in the 
future should have a much 
happier existence than has 
usually been afforded them 
in the past provided this 
lesson is driven home (Fig. 
208). 

When the physical re- 
construction is completed 
these variously handicapped 
soldiers are discharged. 
The compensable cases 

whose handicaps make it necessary to learn a new trade or profession, 
and even those who can be made more useful citizens, and desire the 
opportunity, are placed under the Federal Board of Vocational Educa- 
tion to whom Congress assigned the duty of completing the vocational 
rehabilitation of disabled soldiers. This board is using as far as 




FIG. 208. Training the blind. Typewriting 
is taught to all blind soldiers. By use of the 
dictaphone some become expert office men. 
(Carry On.) 



CONSERVATION AND RECLAMATION OF THE DISABLED 785 

possible the existing civilian machinery to complete this phase of the 
work. Trade schools, colleges, and all kinds of industries are throwing 
open their doors to these soldier boys. 

By co-operating with the Department of Labor all reconstructed 
soldiers are being placed back into industry. Supervision to see that 
their rehabilitation is completed and so remains devolves upon the 
War Risk Bureau and the Federal Board. The Civilian Relief Divi- 
sion of the American Red Cross is giving valuable assistance in this 
stage of the work. 

The problem of the disabled soldier is being solved. Our greatest 
efforts must now be directed to secure the same benefits for the dis- 
abled from industry. 

PHYSICAL RECONSTRUCTION IN CERTAIN INDUSTRIES 

Several industries with comprehensive systems of industrial medi- 
cine and surgery have been practicing the best form of reconstruction 
of the disabled for many years, although their work was not so desig- 
nated. In fact the medical staffs of these concerns have developed 
a more practical co-ordinated system of reconstruction than any yet 
devised by our government or any of the other nations in this war. 

The terms conservation and reclamation more clearly define the 
scope of these efforts in industry than do the terms physical reconstruc- 
tion and rehabilitation. 

But, whatever expressions are used to designate this work, the de- 
sired results can only be attained by a completely rounded out plan 
similar to that adopted in these industries. It includes: (1) Preven- 
tion of disease and accident; (2) constant health supervision; (3) 
adequate medical and surgical care for all disabled; (4) proper selec- 
tion of work according to the physical qualifications of each individual, 
including properly chosen new work for the handicapped after his 
recovery; (5) practical vocational training in the plant for new occu- 
pations when the disability prevents return to the old job; (6) and 
sufficient compensation for the disabled man and his dependents to 
live on while he is undergoing reconstruction. 

Thus those surgeons in industry who have returned the disabled 
employees to light occupations as soon as possible in order that the 
work could help restore the function in the injured member, and also 
to assist the employee to regain a proper mental balance once more, 
have been practicing the best type of physical reconstruction. Or 
what better example of reconstruction can one find than that of the 
industry which sends its tuberculous employee to a sanatorium until 
his disease is arrested and then allows him to return to selected work 
in the plant, under careful medical supervision, until his disease is 
cured and he is fully restored as a useful member of society once more? 

50 



786 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

When a man loses his arm or some other member and is unable 
to return to his old job many of these concerns give him an opportunity 
to learn a new and better occupation instead of relegating him to the 
scrap heap, or to a medicore position such as a watchman. Even 
employees who develop heart disease, or some other permanent handi- 
cap the result of disease, are often trained for new jobs where they can 
still be efficient without further jeopardizing their health. 

A few industries, through the efforts of their medical staffs have 
acquired this humane attitude toward their disabled employees. 
Certainly no better demonstration of practical vocational rehabili- 
tation can be found. 

Therefore, industrial medicine, as conceived and practiced by some, 
can claim the honor of pioneering in this field of reclamation. Without 
the war many years would have elapsed before these ideals would 
have received general recognition. But as a result of the war the 
entire medical profession, industry and labor and society in general 
are enthusiastically grasping this new principle the physical recon- 
struction and rehabilitation of disabled men. This is the psychological 
moment in the history of our nation to extend this great work to every 
employee, yes, to every individual throughout the land. 

THE USUAL METHOD IN INDUSTRY 

Unfortunately only a relatively small number of. industries have 
the enlightened viewpoint above described. The majority of our 
employers, great and small, still consider the human machine as 
something to use to the utmost for gain; to conserve its powers is not 
their responsibility. Thus in spite of the great efforts to establish 
disease and accident prevention, adequate medical and surgical care 
and various reclamation methods we still have and will continue to 
have, the disabled employee in our midst. The man who is no longer 
able to continue at heavy work because of a damaged heart or circu- 
latory apparatus; the man who develops tuberculosis, and, even though 
cured, is afraid to or advised against returning to his former occupation, 
or is rejected from one job after another because of his damaged lung; 
the epileptic who, to safeguard the concern against possible compensa- 
tion, is fired as soon as his condition is known; the men with hernias, 
with flat feet and many other anatomic conditions that make them 
inefficient, as well as the armless and legless and others seriously handi- 
capped, the result of injuries; all make up our army of disabled men. 
Every year adds to the total of incompetents who, on account of 
disease or accidents, are prematurely thrown on the scrap heap be- 
cause their handicaps prevent them from continuing at their old 
occupations. 

As already stated a few industries salvage these disabled and 



CONSERVATION AND RECLAMATION OF THE DISABLED 787 

make them efficient and independent. Some industries 'give these 
employees easy jobs where they can make a living. But the very' 
softness of the job robs them of all incentive, and the bitterness en- 
gendered from dying ambition adds to their incompetency, so that 
many of these drift on into the scrap heap. Other concerns settle 
with their injured workmen when they are legally responsible and then 
dismiss them. Their disabled, for whom they are morally responsible, 
are scrapped without a settlement. These men, trained for certain 
occupations, who meet with permanent handicaps, are the waste prod- 
ucts of our industrial life. Too often when employed, they are ineffect- 
ive because they are thrown into the job without considering their 
physical fitness for it. Again they are given the positions of watch- 
man, flagman, messengers, porters and similar work when, with proper 
training, their full mental energy and remaining physical capacities 
could make them highly efficient in much more gainful vocations. 

The most unfortunate group of disabled men are those who cease 
to be employed by the concern responsible for their disability. Other 
employers are not interested in them, do not feel responsible for them. 
They drift from one job to another, constantly dropping to a lower 
scale, until finally they relinguish all effort to work. These make up 
the loafers, the beggar on the corner, the shoestring merchant on the 
street, the poor physical handicapped and mentally debased flotsam 
and jetsam of our civilization. 

SIZE OF THE PROBLEM 

In the army several million dollars have been set aside for the 
reconstruction and rehabilitation of the disabled soldiers, on an esti- 
mate that there would be approximately 50,000 of these men each 
year of the war needing reconstruction and 20,000 of these would need 
vocational training. Compare with this the meagre appropriation al- 
lowed for the reclamation of the disabled employees the soldiers of 
our great industrial army, of whom, on the lowest estimate, there are 
at least 800,000 disabled by disease and accident in industry every 
year who need physical reconstruction, and at least 200,000 of these 
need training for new and better occupations. Fig. 209 graphically 
shows the size of the problem in the army and in industry and its 
solution. 

If the casualty list from industry could be printed every day in 
our newspapers the people of this country would be appalled at its 
size. In one year from accidents alone it is over four times as large 
as the entire casualties among our troops on the battle fields in Europe. 
We have no record to show the number who are killed or disabled 
as the result of occupational diseases and diseases partially traceable 
to working conditions but these undoubtedly are even more shocking. 



788 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

BY-PRODUCTS 



ZOOO.OOO 5ddi*rj irx Evirope 
2 0, 00 O Pbabled ii\ &\/e&r by Wourvfefey d is?A5?. 

, OOO fW be physically rectfrvstructed 
Musi be ^c^tioa&lly fefrairvsd, 



5oldiens irx ttv? kdvwtries 
"5,000,000 RsiMed <?\)ery ^e^r by accider\t}b/ disease 
& OO,OOO J)Kovild be pky^ically recorvstructed 



be \oc^tior\^lly Retr^irxed 
erv)i5c RecIBnv?d 

Cut out iho Human Scrap Heap 
Salvage ilvo Disablod 

Conserve Human Life 
and Human 



Enors[y. 



FIG. 209. Have we met our obligations? 

The following figures furnished by the Bureau of Statistics, Depart- 
ment of Labor, are very instructive in this connection : 

Estimated number of persons, ten years of age or over, gainfully employed in the 

United States as of April 15, 1917 44,533,208 

Male 34,537,974 

Female 10,005,234 

(Include employees, employers, farmers, and independent workers.) 

Estimated number of industrial accidents in the United States in 1917. . . . 903,000 

Fatal ' 28,000 

Non-fatal causing disability of over four weeks 875,000 



CONSERVATION AND RECLAMATION OF THE DISABLED 789 

Of the 875,000 non-fatal accidents 74,600 would result in amputa- 
tion or loss of use of some member, distributed as follows: 

Loss of 1 eye or reduction of vision to }fo 5,700 

Loss of 1 hand or arm 2 880 

Loss of 1 foot or leg j 220 

Loss of 1 finger or part of finger 52,050 

Loss of two or more fingers 9100 

All other specific injuries (including multiple) 3,580 



Total 74,600 

These figures do not include the great number of accident cases 
occurring on our streets, such as automobile accidents. These vic- 
tims, often very poor, are carried into our hospitals, suffer the loss 
of a leg or an arm and are turned out surgically cured to fend for them- 
selves. Many of these are far from economically cured and make 
up a large percentage of the dependents in every community. 

Two years ago a survey of all crippled individuals in Cleveland, 
Ohio, was made, the total number found being 4815. Of this number 
49 per cent, were under the age of 15 at time of occurrence of disa- 
bility, while 43 per cent, were between the ages of 15 and 59 years, or 
during the period of working life. Of this latter group 40 per cent, 
were due to accident. A similar survey in every community through- 
out the land would undoubtedly reveal the fact that industrial acci- 
dents stand second as the cause of permanent disabilities. 

At this time comparison between the casualties from war and the 
casualties from industry is the most striking means of pointing out 
the size of our civilian disabled problem. Mr. S. S. Riddle has just 
prepared a reconstruction bulletin for the Department of Labor and 
Industry of the State of Pennsylvania in which he makes such a com- 
parison between Canada and Pennsylvania both having approximately 
the same population. Mr. Riddle most concisely points out the size 
of this problem and further demonstrates the enormous financial cost 
resulting from accidents in his state. He says: 

"The army of employees remaining in Pennsylvania may be con- 
sidered as six times as great in number as the army Pennsylvania will 
ultimately put in the field. 

"The casualties suffered by that army of Pennsylvania workers 
estimated to average continuously 3,000,000 during the two years 
and a half from January 1, 1916 to July 1, 1918 amounted to 577,053, 
including 7575 fatalities, according to accident reports submitted 
during that period to the Pennsylvania Department of Labor and 
Industry. An accident report is rendered to the department when 
a worker is killed, or disabled for a period of two days. 

"The number of industrial workers injured in two and one-half 



790 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

years in Pennsylvania is greater than the army that either Canada or 
Pennsylvania is sending against Germany. 

"In other words, if the number not the percentage of the total 
engaged of Pennsylvanians injured in war equals in two and one-half 
years the number injured in the industries of Pennsylvania during 
the same period, every man in an army of 500,000 will be injured once 
and more than 75,000 men in that army will be twice wounded during 
those two and one-half years. 

"Canada, after four years of war, has had approximately 50,000 
men returned as unfit for further military service. That number, 
of course, does not include the total number of men who have been 
wounded or sick and who have recuperated. 

"A vital factor in a comparison of the disabled in war with the 
injured in industry is the number of men returned as unfit for army 
service as the result of disease. Mr. T. B. Kidner former Vocational 
Secretary of the Invalided Soldiers' Commission of Canada, now 
associated with the Federal Board for Vocational Education of the 
United States, in an address on 'Vocational Re-education of the Handi- 
capped and Incapacitated in Canada' as delivered at the Eleventh 
Annual Convention of the National Society for Vocational Education 
at Philadelphia in February, 1918, cited a recent official statement 
made in England, reporting that out of every thousand cases of disable- 
ment 547 are cases of disease and 453 are cases of wounds and injuries. 

"If that ratio holds true for the disabled soldiers returned as unfit 
to Canada and to Pennsylvania, it would seem to indicate that only 
about one-half of the men invalided from war are suffering from 
wounds-^but every man in the list of industrial accidents reported is 
actually wounded. 

"Approximately 1200 of the 50,000 disabled soldiers returned to 
Canada are 'amputation cases' or soldiers having lost one or more 
arms, legs, hands, feet, fingers and toes. 

"That record may be considered with the statement that in the 
industries of Pennsylvania, during the period of only two years and a 
half from January 1, 1916, to July 1, 1918, there have been 3798 
industrial 'amputation cases' of workers having lost arms, legs, hands, 
feet, fingers and toes. 

"On the basis of those figures, it may be safe to assume that the 
total number of amputations suffered by men in Pennsylvania's army 
in the field of war will be considerably less than the total number of 
amputations suffered in Pennsylvania's industries over an equal period. 

"A table showing the dismemberments and loss of parts suffered 
by industrial workers in Pennsylvania from January 1, 1916, to July 1, 
1918, according to accident reports received by the Pennsylvania 
Department of Labor and Industry is as follows : 



CONSERVATION AND RECLAMATION OF THE DISABLED 791 





Eyes 


Arms 


Hands 


Fingers 


Legs 


Feet 


Toes 


Year 1916 


366 


59 


105 


1 111 


111 


48 


87 


Year 1917 


432 


81 


214 


749 


144 


112 


81 


First six months, 1918 


359 


46 


136 


500 


69 


77 


68 


















Totals 


1,157 


186 


455 


2,360 


324 


237 


236 



















"On the other hand, the amputations in warfare are probably more 
serious in degree than the amputations in industry. According to 
the official bulletin of the Canadian Department of Soldiers' Civil 
Re-establishment for March, 1918, a classification of the amputation 
cases in the Canadian Army shows that of the men returned to Canada, 
328 had lost arms and 723 had lost legs. A further classification 
shows that virtually twice as many arm amputations were made above 
the elbow as below the elbow and about twice as many leg amputa- 
tions were made above the knee as below the knee. 

"After almost four years of war, with an army, at present, of between 
400,000 and 500,000, Canada's experience shows that less than 50 
soldiers have been blinded. It has been stated that the number in 
the Spring of 1918 was 34. 

"In the shorter period of only two and one-half years from January 
1, 1916, to July 1, 1918 there have been 29 workers blinded through 
accidents in the industries of Pennsylvania. The total number of 
eyes lost through industrial accidents in Pennsylvania during those 
two and one half-years is 1157. 

"Of the twenty-nine men blinded by industrial accidents in Penn- 
sylvania during two and one-half years, one worker also lost a left hand, 
one a right arm, and one both hands in the accidents that blinded 
them. During those same two and one-half years, five workers lost 
both hands, one of whom also lost one eye; six workers lost both legs; 
three workers lost both feet; four workers lost both an arm and a foot; 
five workers lost both an eye and a hand; two workers lost a leg and 
a foot; two workers lost an arm and leg and two workers lost both 

arms. 

"During the two and one-half years from January 1, I 1 16, to July 
1, 1918, there were 159,659 industrial workers injured in Pennsylvania 
and disabled for a period exceeding fourteen days. Those workers 
received workmen's compensation payments as provided by the state 
law and, in addition, dependents of 4636 workers killed in industry 
likewise received workmen's compensation payments. The difference 
between the number of 577,053 industrial workers reported as injura 
and those receiving compensation payments represents cases wner 
the disability did not exceed a period of fourteen days. 



792 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

"Workmen's compensation awarded and paid for fatalities in 
Pennsylvania from January 1, 1916 to July 1, 1918, amounted to 
$11,539,352.46 of which $1,393,616.76 had been paid to depend- 
ents. Payments for disability cases during the same period amounted 
to $5,378,207.14. The gross total of workmen's compensation 
awarded and paid in Pennsylvania for fatal and disability cases from 
January 1, 1916, to July 1, 1918, amounted to $16,917,559.60." 

Figures from other states would indicate that considerably over 
100,000,000 dollars a year are disbursed in payment of accident com- 
pensation claims throughout the United States. One-half this sum 
intelligently spent by the government in prevention of accidents would 
reduce the number of persons needing physical reconstruction, and 
the other half of this huge amount would vocationally train and other- 
wise reclaim the smaller number receiving permanent handicaps, 
as well as pay their compensation. It must be remembered that 
adequate surgical care and proper training will always reduce the 
number of compensable cases. 

No less an authority than Dudley M. Holman, recently President 
of the International Association of Industrial Accident Boards and 
Commissions, explains the size of the problem of the permanently 
disabled worker, and the value of prevention as a means of reducing 
this problem, in the following words: 

"It is a very conservative estimate to state that annually 250,000 
workers are, under present conditions, permanently thrown out of 
employment through accident or preventable disease in the United 
States alone. These men and women must be supported somehow. 
Part of them receive whole or partial support under the provisions of 
the workmen's compensation acts, and while this solves in whole or 
in part their individual problem of existence, it does so in most states 
only for a limited period, and after six or ten years of idleness, when 
their compensation ceases, they are left in a most pitiful condition. 

"Yet there are a few of these men and -women who could be put 
back into industry and have a place found for them where they could 
support themselves in part at least. 

"This economic waste caused by the apparently enforced idleness 
of this vast army of men and women exceeeds $100,000,000 a year 
of added burden, and amounts to not less than half a billion dollars 
annually, a figure that is constantly being increased by the addition 
of a quarter of a million cripples each year. 

"Much of this burden is primarily borne by the insurance companies, 
but they pass it along so that in the end the burden falls on society 
in general. This waste is a by-product of industrial inefficiency, for 
by prevention of accidents and disease 50 per cent, of these men and 
women would never become disabled." 






CONSERVATION AND RECLAMATION OF THE DISABLED 793 

Interwoven with and contributing to the wastage of human life 
and human energy on the part of industry and of society is the inade- 
quate medical care so often afforded these victims of accident. They 
are admitted to our wards in the hospital and the immediate treatment 
or operation is performed properly and well. This is followed by the 
daily dressing. For the remainder of the day, for weeks and weeks 
to come, the patient is left to his own devices. Lying there in idleness, 
with worry and melancholy his chief companions, is it any wonder 
that traumatic neuroses develop? Satisfied with a good surgical 
end-result, as usually interpreted, very little thought is given to the 
man's future economic usefulness. As a consequence efforts to restore 




FIG. 210. A typical scene in the average hospital. Nothing to do but play cards, 
checkers, or read cheap novels for weeks upon weeks of convalescence. This period 
should be utilized to improve their future social and economic conditions. Suitable 
ward occupations will hasten recovery. 

function in the disabled member receive only secondary consideration. 
And when the patient must finally leave the hospital, to make room 
for other unfortunates, neither the surgeon nor the insurance company 
nor the responsible employer strive to place him in a position where 
the best economic end-result can be attained (Fig. 210). 

Every surgeon will recognize the truth in the following statement 
made by a layman, Mr. A. Gwynne James, County Court Judge under 
the Workmen's Compensation Act, in Bath, England: 

"On my circuit the large majority of injury cases arise from acci- 
dents in mines and from machinery, and the lack of proper and ade- 
quate medical treatment and training is simply appalling. There is 



794 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

practically no exception to the following routine : On the workman re- 
ceiving his injury he is sent to the hospital, where he receives the best of 
treatment, and a limb is amputated or other treatment given, but as 
soon as it is possible to remove him he is discharged to make room for 
others. He then becomes an out-patient or goes home. In the former 
case (the hospital is often some way from his home) he attends a few 
times for dressings, after which all treatment ceases; in the latter case he 
is attended by his club doctor, often a young and inexperienced medical 
practitioner, who has had no communication with those who have 
treated his patient at the hospital, and these attendances invariably 
cease in a short time, and from then the injured man has 'to fake for 
himself.' He cannot in most cases carry on his former trade and has 
no means of being trained to another. As regards artificial limbs, 
although I have had hundreds of cases before me involving loss of a 
limb, I have never known a case when an artificial limb has been sup- 
plied except the old-fashioned leg stump. The workman does not 
appreciate or understand the advantage of an artificial limb, and, if he 
did, has not the means to buy one. Of the cases which come before me 
perhaps the most numerous and difficult to deal with are those acci- 
dents which result in a permanently stiff limb. The insurance 
company asks the judge for a diminution of payment to the workman 
on the ground that if he had followed the doctor's advice the limb 
would not have become stiff, and, therefore, the incapacity to work 
arises from the negligence of the workman. The treatment advised is 
generally massage and certain manual exercises; the former (in most 
cases) the man is totally unable to obtain, either because there is no one 
living near him who can administer it, or because he has no means to 
pay for it; as regards manual exercises there is no institution where 
they can be given and where he can be instructed, and if he tries to 
exercise the limb himself this involves in most cases very considerable 
pain, especially to begin with, and the exercise is discontinued. This, 
in the case of a poor and ignorant man, cannot be held to be negligence, 
especially as the doctor invariably admits that had the patient been a 
well-to-do one he would have advised the treatment of exercise being 
done in the first instance by a medical man. The result is a stiff limb 
for life, a continuance of weekly payments by the insurance company 
(probably for life), and a loss to the country of the man's earn- 
ing powers. 

"Another class of case, occasioned by accident arising out of and in 
the course of the workman's employment, is stiff limbs arising from 
traumatic neurasthenia. In many instances under proper treatment 
the neurasthenia need not have developed, and under existing circum- 
stances when it has occurred there is no provision of any kind whatever 
for medical treatment such as is now given to soldiers suffering from 



CONSERVATION AND RECLAMATION OF THE DISABLED 795 

'shell shock.' I have only dealt with a few instances of the lack of 
medical and orthopedic treatment of our injured workmen and not 
with his re-education, although the latter is of signal importance. 

"I sincerely trust that the institutions and training which are now 
being founded for our injured soldiers may become permanent after 
the war and available to the English workman. As regards the work- 
men's compensation acts, the law would probably have to be amended 
by introducing a slight amount of compulsion as regards treatment. I 
do not think there would be much difficulty as to this; for example, if 
the workman's doctor and the insurance doctor agreed that a certain 
treatment was necessary, then if the patient refused to undergo it his 
weekly payments might be docked or varied. 

"Another question would arise in respect of accidents under the 
above acts as regards the cost of this extra treatment and on whom it 
should fall. In my opinion this cost should fall mainly if not entirely 
upon the insurance companies, although in the case of an injured 
workman having no dependents he might be called upon to pay a 
small amount from his weekly payments. I cannot think that the 
insurance companies would make any objection to this course, as the 
extra cost to them would be more than covered by the smaller weekly 
payments they would have to pay owing to the increased power of 
wage earning, and the earlier date at which their liability to make 
weekly payments would cease. Co-operation and help should be ob- 
tained from the Trades Unions, without whose sympathetic assistance 
the success of the workmen's compensation acts would not have been 
attained." 

Every thoughtful physician and surgeon in this country should be 
stirred to the utmost endeavor to overcome existing conditions by 
these eloquent words from the pen of John Mitchell: 

" We are casting valuable workers needlessly on the scrap heap. In 
my experience as chairman of the New York Industrial Commission, 
which administers the workmen's compensation law, I am brought 
face to face every day with the tragic consequences of our failure to 
make some provision for restoring to economic usefulness, self assur- 
ance, and renewed interest in living, those victims of industry whose 
injuries have maimed or disabled them beyond all possibility of return- 
ing to their v&ual occupations. . . . For a time workmen's compen- 
sation comes to the aid of the family. Then these benefits are ex- 
hausted. The little savings of years are swallowed up. The unfortu- 
nate man is entirely cut off in the prime of manly vigor from the work 
he knows so well how to do. He sees no occupation open to 
him. . . . His special knowledge of working processes gone to waste, 
he sinks- under the weight of his misfortune . . . watching ... the 
black shadows of destitution fall over his home." 



796 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

THE SOLUTION OF THE PROBLEM 

The accident cases the armless, the legless and the blind form 
the most spectacular group of those needing physical reconstruction. 
But those employees suffering from "invisible wounds" the tuber- 
culous, the heart case, the nephritic, the mental defective and the 
victims of occupational diseases demand the same care. 

The problem of the disabled from industry can only be solved, 
however, by considering every angle of human conservation and 
reclamation. It involves more than the physical reconstruction and 
vocational training. 

Every year recently has witnessed the enactment of laws by the 
different states tending to meet some portion of this problem. But 
these laws show a woeful lack of intelligent understanding of the 
exigency and are very inadequate. Proof of this statement has just 
been furnished in the pages dealing with the size of this problem as it 
confronts us to-day after several years of legislative effort. 

The first real advance in labor legislation in this country was the 
enactment of certain laws regarding industrial sanitation and the es- 
tablishment of state factory inspectors in practically every state. 
These have been followed by acts concerning hours of labor, employ- 
ment of women and children, periodical examinations for occupational 
diseases and, in 38 states, employees' compensation acts. The Federal 
government has passed similar laws for the government employees. 
At present there is a bill before Congress for the vocational rehabilita- 
tion of industrial cripples. The trouble with all this legislation and 
the reason that it has not been more successful is this piecemeal method 
of meeting the requirements. 

Certainly the time is ripe for uniform labor legislation which will 
adequately solve the problems of conserving human life, reclaiming the 
disabled, sufficient compensation for disabilities sustained, insurance 
against sickness, old age, and unemployment, and better living and 
working conditions. 

Instead of Congress enacting another law applying to only a small 
angle of this great question it would be much wiser for it to appoint a 
commission, and provide sufficient funds, in order that the whole 
situation could be studied and a standard law submitted to the Federal 
and state governments which would furnish a comprehensive solution 
of the whole problem. 

Such a law, couched in simple but unmistakable language, and 
enacted in every state, must provide for the following : 

] . Prevention of Disease and Accidents. All possible methods of 
preventing occupational diseases must be standardized and their use 
made compulsory. 

Protection of fellow employees from communicable diseases, in- 



CONSERVATION AND RECLAMATION OF THE DISABLED 797 

eluding the discovery of such diseases, must be provided, as well as 
adequate supervision of health in order to detect all disease in its 
incipiency. 

The effective accident prevention measures now being used in 
many industries must be applied to all. 

Provisions must be made to include the farmer, the small employer, 
the employer of domestic help, and every community activity in the j 
scope of this law. 

Above all it must provide for better living and housing conditions, 
better working conditions, shorter hours of labor and better wages so 
that "the gaunt spector of poverty will be removed from the doors of 
those who toil, and will give to them a part of the day for rest and 
recreation in order to repair the bodily wastes that sap the energy and 
consequently reduce their output through fatigue and overwork." 

2. Adequate Medical and Surgical Care. It must provide for the 
best and immediate medical and surgical care for every sick or injured 
employee. Whenever occupational conditions are responsible for 
the sickness or injury the employer should furnish this care. 

Adequate care, must be clearly defined and must include every 
therapeutic adjunct which will enable the physical reconstruction, 
the functional re-education and the maximum restoration to useful 
employment of every disabled individual. 

State and community hospitals, convalescent centers, and human 
repair shops must be provided where this treatment can be furnished 
under proper environment and supervision. 

Suitable artificial appliances and training in their use must be 
considered a definite part of treatment. No longer should such an 
important branch of medicine and of social economy be left to the 
uncontrolled commercial interests of the country. 

3. Training and Employment. The recent provisions for the 
vocational rehabilitation of disabled soldiers and sailors and their 
return to civil employment must be extended to the disabled in 
industry. 

Centers must be provided in every state where disabled men made 
unfit by disease or accident for their usual vocations can be retrained 
for useful employment. 

Federal, state and local employment agencies must be provided 
for the intelligent placing of these men in suitable occupations. 

Employers must be required to train their disabled employees for 
better or just as good positions as they formerly held instead of 
relegating them to the usual jobs for cripples such as watchman, 
messengers, etc. 

4. Compensation and Insurance. Thirty-eight states have 
already enacted employees' compensation laws. None of these covers 



798 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

all employments; the amount of compensation paid for disabilities 
has a very wide range; and the methods of insuring the risks 
and administering the acts differ materially in the various states. 
The crying need is for a uniform, standardized compensation law in 
every state. 

Insurance against sickness, accidents, invalidity, unemployment 
and old age must be provided as a definite part of a conservation and 
reclamation program. 

5. Machinery for Carrying Out the Act. Each state should have 
a central administrative body with sufficient administrative and police 
powers to execute the intentions of the Act. 

Health, sanitation, food, housing, employment, education, insur- 
ance and both industry and labor should be represented on this 
central commission. As far as possible these should be removed from 
the appointive realm of politics and should be considered honor 
positions. The activities of the different state departments should 
be co-ordinated so as to avoid the present duplication and inefficiency 
existing in the Federal and state governments. 

Qualified medical men and laymen must be appointed to supervise 
every angle of this work including even the medical and surgical 
treatment afforded the disabled, the type of health supervision ma'n- 
tained, as well as the living and working conditions of all coming under 
the Act. 

6. Remedial Measures for Existing Conditions. Laws requiring 
compensation for injuries without providing for accident prevention 
have proven how wasteful partial legislation to meet a given situation 
can be. Therefore, remedial legislation for the purpose of removing 
or correcting all things which prevent the complete fulfillment of the 
proposed law is essential. 

No longer should inadequate medical and surgical care be tolerated 
or protected by the unwritten laws of the profession generally included 
under the term medical ethics. 

Those hospitals notorious for their lack of high standards and 
responsible for many a case of permanent disability must be abolished. 

Patent medicines, fake appliances, and quackery of every form, 
acting as a snare and delusion for millions of employees, must be 
eradicated. 

Child labor and every other form of exploitation of labor must 
cease. 

Above all such a law must be absolutely just, based upon the 
rights of both industry and labor, and tending to weld into a close 
partnership those who employ and those who must work. The new 
viewpoints gained from the sacrifices of this war must lead our country 
into a true democracy with equal rights for all. 









CONSERVATION AND RECLAMATION OF THE DISABLED 799 

It is not to be expected that these great social, economic and indus- 
trial problems will be solved immediately. Great progress has been 
made during the short time we have been in the war. But years of 
effort, propaganda and example are yet required before these ideals 
can be attained. With immigration ceasing to a large extent and with 
the increased demands upon our industrial resources it will be necessary 
for the nation to conserve its man-power if we intend to maintain 
America's economic supremacy and to take our rightful place in the 
great commercial struggle confronting the world. 

Industrial medicine has already blazed the trail in this the greatest 
conservation movement ever inaugurated. It has played a most 
important part in helping win the war by maintaining the health 
and efficiency of our second line of defense the industrial army. It 
must now forge ahead, extending its principles to every industry in 
every community of the land. It must now become the pioneer move- 
ment for the socialized medicine of the future. 

With a broadened vision and a greater capacity for service let us 
strive for this ideal Human Conservation and Reclamation of all 
Disabled. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 

A very complete bibliography on Industrial Medicine and Surgery prior to' 
1916 can be obtained from the following sources: 

United States Department of Labor, Bureau of Statistics. Books and period- 
icals on accident and disease prevention in industry. Washington, 1915. 

KOBER & HANSON. "Diseases of Occupation and Vocational Hygiene," 
Philadelphia, 1916. 

SIB THOMAS OLIVER. "Occupational Diseases from Social, Hygienic, and 
Medical Points of View," Cambridge University Press, 1916. 

The following bibliography includes practically all the articles, reports, special 
"bulletins and transactions published on this subject since 1916. The names of all 
contributors are not included in this list as their articles appear in the various 
reports and transactions referred to. 

ADAMSON, R. A. E. Workshop for the handicapped. Survey, New York, 1916, 

xxvi, 392-393. 
ABLER, ELEANOR. An experimental employment bureau for cripples. Work 

gives the afflicted a new lease on life. Changed attitude on the part of 

employers. Modern Hospital, Chicago, 1918, xi, 402-405. 
ALBATTGH, R. P. Health protection in industries manufacturing war materials. 

Ohio Public Health Journal, Columbus, 1917, viii, 300-302. 
. Peculiar poisoning in construction camp (carbon monoxide). Ohio State 

Board of Health Bulletin, Columbus, 1917, viii, 195-200. 
ALBERTI, E. J. H. Twee gevallen van schadelyke working door den electrichen 

stroom. Nederlandsch Tydschrift voor Geneeskunde, Amsterdam, 1918, 
i, 232-234. 
ALBRECHT, A. E. Industrial accidents and the education of immigrants. School 

and Society, New York, 1917, vi, 652. 
ALEXANDER, M. W. Measuring the workman's physical fitness for his job. 

Industrial Management, New York, 1917, Hi, 493-502. 
. The physician in industry. Dominion Medical Monthly, Toronto, 

1916, xlvi, 97-105. 
-. Health supervision in Industry Conference Board of Physicians in 



Industrial Practice, 1917. 
ALLPORT, F. State legislation concerning shop lighting, shop accidents, shop 

conditions, the common towel, etc. Ophthalmology, Seattle, 1916-1917, 

xiii, 48-117. 

AMAR, JULES. Organisation physiologique du travail. Paris, 1917. 
. The physiology of industrial organization and the re-employment of the 

disabled. Translated by Bernard Miall. London, 1918. 
ANDREWS, J. B. Industrial hygiene and health insurance. American Journal of 

Public Health, Concord, 1916, vi, 959-963. 
ANDREWS, J. B. New Federal workmen's compensation law. Survey, New York, 

1916, xxxvi, 617. 
. Physical examination of employees. American Journal of Public Health , 

Concord, 1916, vi, 825-829. 
-. A timely brief for health insurance. Boston Medical and Surgical 



Journal, 1916, clxxv, 539. 
ANDRTTS C. S. The responsibility of industrial boards to employer and employee 
51 801 



802 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

as influenced by the opinion of the medical officer. Journal of the American 

Medical Association, Chicago, 1918, Ixxi, 508-511. 
ANTHONY, F. W. Industrial health legislation. Boston Medical and Surgical 

Journal, 1916, clxxv, 911-913. 
APPELBATJM, S. J. Compulsory health insurance. Journal of the American 

Medical Association, Chicago, 1917, Ixviii, 1338-1339. 
ARMSTRONG, D. B. Social aspects of industrial hygiene. American Journal of 

Public Health, New York, 1916, vi, 546-553. 

ASHE, S. W. Organization in accident prevention. New York, 1917. 
ATHERTON, SARAH H. Survey of wage-earning girls below 16 years of age in Wilkes- 

Barre, Pa. Nail Consumer's League, New York, 1915. 

B., A. Lo stabilimento tipolitografico Antonio Vallardi nei rapporti della igiene 

e della sicurezza. Rivista di Ingegneria Sanitaria, Torino, 1916, xii, 1, 13. 
BACON, J. E. Traumatic hernia. Southwestern Medicine, El Paso, 1917, i, No. 9 r 

p. 9-12. 
BALDY, JOHN M. What constitutes reasonable surgical, medical and hospital 

services under compensation act. (Second Conference Industrial Physicians, 

Harrisburg, 1916.) 

BAKER, V. C. Dusty occupations. Journal of the American Medical Associa- 
tion, Chicago, 1916, Ixvi, 1453-1456. 
BANGERT, GEORGE SCHUYLER. Occupational mercury poisoning. New York, 

1918. Reprinted from New York Medical Journal, June 22, 1918. 
BARGERON, L. L'hygiene dans la reconstruction des usines apres la guerre. 

Annales d'Hygiene Publique et de Medicine Le"gale, Paris, 1916, xxvi, 257-273, 

321-345; 1917, xxvii, 213; xxviii, 57. 
BARGONI, FOSCOLO. The insurance of the disabled against industrial accidents. 

In: Inter- Allied Conference on the After-care of Disabled Men. Reports, 

London, 1918, p. 71-82. 
BASKERVILLE, C. The American chemist and occupational diseases. Medicine 

and Surgery, St. Louis, 1917, i, 767-771. 
. Occupational diseases in the chemical trades. Journal of Industrial and 

Engineering Chemistry, Easton, 1916, viii, 1054. 
BAUVALLET, H. Note sur un nouveau modele de casque recepteur pour radio- 

telegraphie et telephonic. Bulletin de FAcademie de Medicine, Paris, 1917, 

Ixxviii, 101-103. 
BENTLEY, J. R. Welfare work of Montgomery Ward & Company. Journal of 

Ophthalmology, Otology and Laryngology, Lancaster, 1917, xxiii, 529-545. 
BEYER, DAVID STEWART. Accident prevention. Annals of the American Academy 

of Political and Social Science, Concord, 1917, Ixx, 238-243. 
BILLINGS, FRANK. The program for the physical reconstruction of disabled 

soldiers, Jour. A. M. A., July 1, 1918. 
BIRKS, M. Mine accidents at Broken Hill and their treatment at the Broken Hill 

and district hospital. Medical Journal of Australia, Sydney, 1918, i, 507-510. 
BLANCHARD, R. H. Liability and Compensation insurance. New York, 1917. 
BLOCK, E. Re'sume' of health conditions of a modern department store. New 

Orleans, Medical and Surgical Journal, 1917-18, Ixx, 724-733. 
BLOEDORN, W. A. Studies of industrial accidents which occurred in the Navy 

Yard at Washington, D. C. U. S. Naval Medical Bulletin, Washington, 1916, 

x, 585-625. 
BLOODGOOD, J. C. How the industrial surgeon can best co-operate with the 

government during the war. Southern Medical Journal, Birmingham, 1918, 

xi, 543. 



BEBLIOGKAPHY g03 

BLOODGOOD, J. C. Medical preparedness in the great drive for democracy. 

Southern Medical Journal, Birmingham, vol. x, No. 7, 544-546. 
BOLAND, F. K. Traumatic rupture of viscera without external wound. Journal 

of the Medical Association of Georgia, Augusta, 1917-1918, vii, 74-78. 
BONNIER, J. W. Statistique de Thygiene professionnelle. Bulletin Sanitaire 

Montreal, 1916, xvi, 81-86. 

BORDLET, JAMES, JR. The re-education of the blind. Jour. A. M. A., July 7, 1918. 
BORNE, AND^ KOHN-ABREST. Le bouton d'huile des ouvriers metallurgistes. 

Revue d'Hygiene et de Police Sanitaire, Paris, 1916, xxxviii, 1077-1093. 
BOUQUET, H. Le travail industriel des femmes et 1' Academic; la propagande 

francaise par les medecins. Monde medical, Paris, 1916-17, xxvi, 170-174. 
BOWERS, A. P. Tuberculosis as it affects the worker. Monthly' Bulletin of the 

Pennsylvania Department of Labor, Harrisburg, 1917, iv, 106-108. 
BROCK, L. G. The re-education of the disabled. Nineteenth Century New York 

1916, Ixxx, 822-835. 
BROCX, D. De organisatie van het reddingwezen in onze steenkolenmijnen. 

Reddingwezen, Rotterdam, 1917, vi, 203; 231. 
BROMBERG, R. (Occupational diseases and their social importance.) Medisch 

Weekblad, Amsterdam, 1916-17, xxiii, 205, 217, 231, 241, 253 265 277 289 

301, 313, 325. 
Bulletins. National Founders Association on Safety and Sanitation. West 

Lynn, Mass. 

CARMICHAEL, H. B. The method of examination and results in sight, hearing and 
colour vision for one year on the Grand Trunk Railway system. Canadian 
Medical Association Journal, Toronto, 1916, vi, 210-227. 

California. Report of Industrial Accident Commission 1915 to 1916. 

GARY, HAROLD. Keeping employees happy. Music, rest and recreation contrib- 
ute to the success of a button factory and the content of its employees. 
Modern Hospital, St. Louis, 1917, viii, 232. 

Cause and prevention of furunculosis and wound infection among machinists. 
Ohio Public Health Journal, Columbus, 1918, ix, 145-152. 

Certifying factory surgeons. British Medical Journal, London. 

CHANEY, LUCIAN W. AND HUGH S. HANNA. Accidents and accident prevention 
in machine building. Washington, 1917. 

. Can serious industrial accidents be eliminated? Monthly Review of the 

U. S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, Washington, 1917, v, 201-216. 

The safety movement in the iron and steel industry 1907 to 1917. 



Washington, 1918. (U. S. Department of Labor. Bureau of Labor Statis- 
tics. Bulletin No. 234.) 
CHUBB, IRENE SYLVESTER. Some problems of the partially disabled, in war and 

industry. American Labor Legislation Review, New York., 1918, viii, 294-305. 
CIAMPOLINI, A. Rischio professionale e rendimento utile degli operai invalidati 

che si riadattano al lavoro. Ramazzini, Firenze, 1916, x, 137-160. 
CLARK, LINDLEY D. Workmen's compensation legislation of the United States 

and foreign countries, 1917 and 1918. Bulletin of the United States Bureau of 

Labor Statistics, No. 243, Washington, 1918. 
CLARK, W. I. Adjustment of physical defectives to employment. Boston Medical 

and Surgical Journal, 1917, clxxvii, 578-580. 
. Medical supervision of factory employees. Journal of the American 

Medical Association, Chicago, 1917, Ixviii, 5-8. 
. Nail puncture wounds of the foot. Boston Medical and Surgical Journal, 



Apr., 1917. ' 
Physical examination and medical supervision of factory employees. 



804 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY . 

In: Proceedings of the Conference of Social Insurance, 1916, Washington, 

1917, p. 317-326; 335-347. 
CLARK, W. I. The protection of the health of the worker in war. Journal of the 

American Medical Association, Chicago, 1917, Ixix, 1124-1129. 
CLEGG, J. G. Ophthalmic occupational affections as described by Prof. Ramaz- 

zini, of Modena and Padua, at the end of the seventeenth century, Ophthal- 
moscope, London, 1916, xiv, 290-300. 
CLEWELL, C. E. Natural lighting in shop work spaces. Metal Worker, Plumber 

and Steam-fitter, New York, 1918, Ixxxix, 162-166. 
Clinical study of lead, turpentine, and benzine poisoning in 402 painters. 

Monthly Labor Review, Washington, 1919, viii, No. 3, p. 227-229. 
CLOSE, C. L. Economic saving of human resources. Scientific Monthly, Garri- 
son, N. Y., 1917, iv, 428-437. 
CLOUGH, F. E. From kindergarten to library. Welfare work of the Homestake 

mining company, Lead, S. D. Modern Hospital, St. Louis, 1917, viii, 74-75. 
COBURN, C. O. Industrial medicine. Transactions of the New Hampshire 

Medical Society, Concord, 1918, cxxcii, 85-100. 
COLCORD, A. W. Hernia; should it be classed as a compensable injury or a 

disease? Pennsylvania Medical Journal, Athens, 1917-18, xxi, 672-684. 
COLLIS, E. L. The protection of the health of munition workers; with special 

reference to the work of the health of munition workers committee. Journal 

of State Medicine London, 1917, xxv, 203-213. 
Compulsory health insurance. Journal of the American Medical Association, 

Chicago, 1917, Ixviii, 292. 

CONCULMER, P. Neurosi traumatiche. Rivista Medica, Milano, 1916, xxiv, 17. 
COTTINGHAM, C. E. Occupational neuroses; report of seven cases of a new type. 

Journal of the Indiana State Medical Association, Fort Wayne, 1918, xi, 

297-302. 
COTTON, F. J. A consideration of workingmen's accident and sickness insurance 

in their relation to the medical profession. Boston Medical and Surgical 

Journal, 1916, clxxv, 893-897. 
COUILLARD, E. L'inspection m^dicale de l'industrie. Bulletin me'dical de 

Quebec, 1916, xviii, 145-158. 

. Bulletin Sanitaire, Montreal, 1916, xvi, 92-103. 

CHANDALL, E. P. Industrial welfare nursing. Public Health Nurse Quarterly, 

Baltimore, 1916, viii, No. 2, p. 32-47. 
CRONIN, HERBERT J. Administration of the Workingmen's compensation act 

by the city of Cambridge, Massachusetts. Boston Medical and Surgical 

Journal, 1916, clxxv, 906-911. 
. The establishment of a first-aid hospital in industry. Boston Medical 

and Surgical Journal, 1917, clxxvii, 580-583. 

The physician and the prevention of industrial accidents. Boston 



Medical and Surgical Journal, 1916, clxxiv, 870-874. 

CROSBY, JOHN C. Workingmen's compensation act. Boston Medical and 
Surgical Journal, 1916, clxxv, 883-892. 

Crown Mines, Limited. Annual report of the Chief Medical Officer, 1916. 
Crown Mines, 1917. 

CRTJM, F. S. Facts showing the correlation between tuberculosis and industry. 
Journal of the Medical Society of New Jersey, Orange, 1918, xv, 181-183. 

. The mortality from diseases of the lungs in American industry. Penn- 
sylvania Medical Journal, Athens, 1916, xx, 3348. 

CUNNINGHAM, W. P. Health insurance. New York Medical Journal, 1917, cvi, 
683-686. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 805 

CURRAN, J. F. Relation of industrial surgeon to industry and to society. Boston 
Medical and Surgical Journal, 1918, clxxviii, 215-217. 

CURTIS, W. G. Economic disadvantages of compulsory health insurance (and 
comments). New York State Journal of Medicine. New York, 1917, xvii 
75-81. 

CUTLER, R. W. Physical examination of factory employees; two thousand con- 
secutive cases and the defects found. Boston Medical and Surgical Journal, 
1917, clxxvii, 627-631. 

Dangers of the airplane industry from a hygienic standpoint. Monthly Review of 
the W. S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, Washington, 1917, v, 284. 

DARLINGTON, THOMAS. Address on prolonging the lives of busy men. New York 
1918. 

. Physiological principles applied to industry. International Clinics, 

Philadelphia, 1916, 26, s., iv, 142-146. 

Present scope of welfare work in the iron and steel industry. Modern 



Hospital, St. Louis, 1916, vii, 91-94. 
DAVIN, J. P. Compulsory health insurance. American Medicine, New York, 

1917, xii, 188-193. 
DAWSON, M. M. Contribution of health insurance to improvement of public 

health. Public Health Journal, Toronto, 1917, viii, 313-317. 
. What will health insurance do for the insured? American Journal of 

Nursing, Philadelphia, 1917, xvii, 937-942. 
DELPHEY, E. V. Arguments against standard bill for health insurance. Journal 

of the American Medical Association, Chicago, 1917, Ixviii, 1500-1501. 
. Compulsory health insurance from points of view of general practitioner. 

New York State Medical Journal, New York, 1916, xvi, 601-604. 
DEVOTO, L. I problem! igienici davanti al nuovo industrialismo italiano. Pen- 

siero Medico, Milano, 1917, vii, 181-184. 
DICKERMAN, C. Cigarmakers' neurosis. National Eclectec Medical Association 

Quarterly, Cincinnati, 1918-19, x, 58-66. 
Disabled (the) in industry. Hospital, London, 1918, Ixiv, 511. 
Disabled men in productive work. Educational motion picture entitled: "An 

object lesson in the employment of war and industrial cripples." Produced 

by the Ford Motor Co., American Industries, New York, 1918, xix, No. 1, 

p. 24-25. 
DOANE, P. S. Health and sanitation in the shipyards. New York Medical 

Journal, 1918, cviii, 880. 
DOBBINS, R. B. Putting the industrially disabled back at work. 100 per cent. 

Efficiency Magazine, Chicago, 1918, xi, No. 3, p. 76-84; No. 4, p. 68, 70-90. 
DODSON, J. M. Preventive medicine in railway work. Journal of the Minnesota 

State Medical Association and the Northwestern Lancet, Minneapolis, 1918, 

xxxviii, 91-97. 

. Medical Insurance and Health Conservation, Dallas, 1918, xxvii, 219-222. 

DONNEY, E. H. Making of rates for workmen's compensation insurance. Journal 

of Political Economy, Chicago, 1917, xxv, 961-983. 
DONOGHUE, FRANCES D. The history and operation of the Massachusetts 

workingman's compensation law. Boston Medical and Surgical Journal, 

1916, clxxv, 897-902. 
. The rehabilitation of crippled workmen. In: Massachusetts Industrial 

Accident Board. Annual report No. 3, Boston, 1916, p. 82-101. 
. Restoring the injured employee to work. Boston Medical and Surgical 

Journal, 1916, clxxv, 457-461. 



806 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

DOTY, A. H. The value of examination of applicants for industrial employment. 

Medical Record, New York, 1916, Ixxxix, 952-954. 
Double Duty Finger Guild. Steady, remunerative work for the blind. Ampere, 

N. J., 1918. 
DOUGLAS, PAUL H. An after-care clinic in Oregon. American Lavor Legislation 

Review, New York, 1919, ix, 134-136. 
DUBLIN, L. I. Occupational mortality experience of 94,269 industrial workers. 

American Journal of Public Health, New York, 1916, 663-670. 
DUBLIN, L. J. AND JACOBS, P. P. Tuberculosis as a war problem. Journal Out- 
door Life, vol. xiv, No. 12. 
DUCLOT. Quelques considerations sur le travail des f emmes dans les 6stablessement, 

de la marine. Archives de Me'decine et Pharmacie Navales, Paris, 1917, civ, 

5-11. 
DUNCAN, JAMES P. The aims of industrial welfare. Modern Hospital. St. Louis, 

1916, vii, 127-128. 

EATON, J. M. Industrial welfare work a factor in modern management. Modern 

Hospital, St. Louis, 1916, vii, 104-109. 
EDSALL, D. L. The bearings of industry on medical practice. Boston Medical 

and Surgical Journal, 1917, clxxvii, 575. 
. Medical-industrial relations of the war. Johns Hopkins Hospital 

Bulletin, Baltimore, 1918, xxix, 197-205. 
. The prevention of disease in war industries. Extent and importance 

of the problem. Medical Record, New York, 1918, xciii, 611. 

Supposed physical effects of the pneumatic hammer on workers in 



Indiana limestone. Public Health Reports, Washington, 1918, xxxiii, 394- 

403. 
EDWARS, J. W. Industrial diseases prevailing amongst iron and steel workers in 

Middlesbrough. British Medical Journal, 1916, ii, 97-99. 
EISENBEKG, A. A. Visceral changes in wood alcohol poisoning by inhalation. 

American Journal of Public Health, New York, 1917, vii, 765-771. 
EISENSTADT, H. L. Beitrage zu den Krankheiten der Postbeamten. Berlin, 1916. 
EMMONS, A. B. Industrial Medical supervision. Boston Medical and Surgical 

Journal, 1916, clxxiv, 495-499. 
Employment results in Philadelphia, American Journal of Care for Cripples. 

New York, 1916, iii, 42-44. 
Employment of crippled in a large industrial plant. Monthly Labor Review, 

Washington, 1918, vii, no. 6, p. 85-86. 
ERDMAN, S. Standards for the prevention of compressed air illness. American 

Journal of Public Health, Concord, 1918, viii, 431-434. 
ESTES, W. L. Compensation laws of the potent factors in the prevention and 

treatment of occupational diseases and industrial accidents. Transactions 

of the College of Physicians, Philadelphia, 1917, 3 s, xxxix, 439-455. 
EVANS, WILLIAM A. Industrial physicians and the returning soldier. Survey, 

New York, 1918, xl, 354. 

EVE, D. A discussion of seven thousand industrial injuries. Journal of the Ten- 
nessee State Medical Association, Nashville, 1918-19, xi, 269-276. 
. The necessity of making blood pressure examinations of engineers over 

60, at stated intervals. Railway Surgical Journal, Chicago, 1917-18, xxiv, 

265-270. 
. Experiment (an) in fair dealing Modern Hospital, Chicago, 1919, xii, 



144-146. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 807 

FARNAM, HENRY W. The Seaman's act of 1915. 9th annual meeting American 

Assn. for Labor Legislation Dec. 28, 1915. 
FARNTJM, G. G. Modem industrial medicine. Journal of the American Medical 

Association, Chicago, 1918, Ixxi, 336-338. 
. The relationship of impaired physical condition to accidents. American 

Journal of Public Health, New York, 1916, vi, 470-473. 
The Ideal Industry from the Standpoint of Health and Safety Nail Safety 

Council, Chicago, 1917. 
PAY, A. H. Metal-mine accidents in the United States during the calendar year 

1915. American Journal of Public Health, Concord, 1916, vi, 1235. 
FEISS, R. A. Scientific management and its relation to health of worker. Ameri- 
can Journal of Public Health, New York, 1917, vii, 262-267. 
FERRETTI, U. Ill Convegno degli industriali del freddo, nei riguardi igiemici. 

Annali d'Igiene, Roma, 1917, xxvii, 38-41. 
First-aid equipment for industrial plant. Modern Hospital, St. Louis, 1918, x, 

305-306. 
FISHER, I. Need for health insurance. New York State Journal of Medicine 

New York, 1917, xvii, 81-84. 
FISHER, HART E. Now adhering surgical gauze used in Emergency Surgery. 

Jour. A. M. A., vol. Ixvi, pp. 929. First aid system (Interstate Med. Journal, 

vol. xxii, No. 10, 1916. 
FISKE, C. N. Suggested use of combined table of occupational distribution of 

physical disability. U. S. Naval Medical Bulletin, Washington, 1916, x, 199- 

213. 
FLEISCHER, ALEXANDER. Welfare service for employees. Philadelphia, 1917. 

Reprinted from Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social 

Sciences, January, 1917. 
FLORENCE, P. S. Methods for field study of industrial fatigue. Public Health 

Reports, Washington, 1918, xxxiii, 349-353. 
FLORET. Erfahrungen mit verschiedenen Handereinigungsmitteln bei Arbeitern 

in der Chemischen Industrie. Zentralblatt fur Gewerbehygiene, Berlin, 1915, 

iii, 238-240. 
FOLEY, EDNA L. Visiting nurse in industry. Modern Hospital, St. Louis, 1916, 

vii, 125-127. 
FORD, JAMES S. Employment of persons in the arrested stage of tuberculosis. 

Medical Record, New York, 1916, xc, 1154-1155. 
FORRESTER, C. R. G. The prevention of disability following fracture of the 

os calcis. Illinois Medical Journal, Chicago, 1916, xxx, 385-388. 
FRANKEL, LEE K. Systematic health service for employees. Modern Hospital, 

St. Louis, 1916, vii, 87-90. 
. Welfare work of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company for its 

employees. New York State. Journal of Medicine, New York, 1917, xvii, 

38-40. 
FREEMAN J. W. Fractures of the different bones occurring in the gold mining 

industry; end-results and economic study of 311 consecutive cases. Annales 

of Surgery, Philadelphia, 1917, Ixvi, 193-200. 
FREIBERG, A. H. The casualties of War and Industry and their relatic 

Orthopedic Surgery. Jour. A. M. A., vol. Ixxi, No. 6, p. 417. 
FRENCH, W. J. Accident prevention in California. In: Proceedings of the 

Conference of Social Insurance, 1916, Washington, 1917, p. 267-272, 283-291. 
. Cooperative methods to promote industrial safety. Proceedings of t 

International Association of Industrial Accident Boards, 1916, Washington, 

1917, iii, 145-151. 



808 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

FRONCZAK, F. E. Modern chemical industries and public health. American 

Journal of Public Health, New York, 1917, vii, 268-272. 
FULLERTON, HUGH. Make men as well as goods. Modern Hospital, St. Louis, 

1916, vii, 346-347. 

GANA, V. Q. La industria de curtidos en las Islas Filipinas. Actas, Memorias y 
comunicaciones de la 3. Assemble a regional dm6e dicos y farmaceuticos de 
Filipinas Manita, 1917, 498-521. 

GEIER, O. P. Health of working forces. Industrial Management, New York, 

1917, liv, 13-19. The human potential in Industry. Jour. American Soc. 
Mechanical Engineers, N. Y., 1917. 

GEN-TRY, J. A. Medical supervision of employees in large industries. Southern 
Medical Journal, Birmingham, 1918, xi, 115-119. 

Gesundheitlichen (die) Verh altnisse in den vergoldereien. Zentralblatt fur 
Gewerbehygiene, Berlin, 1915, iii, 280-284. 

Gesundheitsverhaltnisse der Arbeiter in englischen Munitionsfabriken. Deutsche 
medizinische Wochenschrift, Leipzig, 1917, xliii, 1269. 

GEWIN, W. C. The relation of the surgeon to industrial corporation. Interna- 
tional Journal of Surgery, New York, 1917, xxx, 109-111. 

GIBBONS. Work, principles and problems of industrial accidents. California 
State Journal of Medicine, San Francisco, 1916, xiv, 470. 

GILBERTI, P. Ernia da infortunio. Pensiero Medico, Milano, 1915, v, 523, 537, 
562. 

GILBRETH, FRANK B. AND LILLIAN M. GILBRETH. Creating the cripple's oppor- 
tunity. Iron Trade Review, Cleveland, 1918, Ixii, 268-269. 

. Fatigue study, the elimination of humanity's greatest unnecessary waste ; 

a first step in motion study. New York. 1916. 

Measurement of the human factor in industry. (To be presented at the 



National Conference of the Western Efficiency Society, May 22-25, 1917). 

N.p., n.d. 
GILSON, M. B. Recreation of working force. Industrial Management, New 

York, 1917, liv, 13-19. 
GOLDMARK JOSEPHINE. Women workers in new occupations. Manufacturers' 

News, Aug. 8, 1918. 
GOLDWATER, S. S. The conservation of the health of industrial workers. Modern 

Hospital, St. Louis, 1917, vii, 124-125. 
Great Britain, Ministry of Munitions. Health of Munition Workers Committee. 

Health of the munition workers. -London, 1917. 
GUTON, L. Conditions d 'insalubrity des e'tablissements industriels. Bulletin 

Sanitaire, Montreal, 1916, xvi, 86-92. 

HALDANE, J. S. Dust inhalation and the health of miners. Medical Officer, 

London, 1918, xx, 146. 
HALDY, W. A. Welfare work in the modern factory. Cleveland Medical Journal, 

1915, xiv, 757-761. 
HALL, H. J. AND M. M. C. BUCK. Handicrafts for the handicapped. New York, 

1916. 
HAMBRECHT, GEORGE P. Industrial experience of handicapped workmen in 

Wisconsin. American Labor Legislation Review, New York, 1919, ix, 

117-125. 

HAMILTON, ALICE. Dangers other than accidents in the manufacture of explo- 
sives. Journal of Industrial and Engineering Chemistry, Easton, 1916, viii, 

1064-1067. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 809 

HAMILTON, ALICE. The fight against industrial diseases; the opportunities and 
duties of the industrial physician. Pennsylvania Medical Journal, Athens, 
1918, xxi, 378-381. 

. Industrial poisons encountered in manufacture of explosives. Journal of 

the American Medical Association, Chicago, 1917, Ixviii, 1445-1451. 

Prophylaxis of industrial poisoning in the munition industries. American 



Journal of Public Health, Concord, 1918, 125-130. 
HAMILTON, ALICE AND CHARLES H. VERRILL. Hygiene of the printing trades. 

Washington, 1917. 
HARFORD, C. F. Visual neuroses of miners. British Medical Journal, London, 

1916, i, 434. 
HARRINGTON, T. F. Health in war industries. Boston Medical and Surgical 

Journal, 1918, clxxviii, 453-458. 
. Industrial health. American Journal of Public Health, New York, 1917, 

vii, 322-330. 

Occupational diseases in Massachusetts. Boston Medical and Surgical 



Journal, 1917, clxxvii, 153. 
HARRIS, Louis I. A clinical study of the frequency of lead, turpentine and benzin 

poisoning in 400 painters. Archives of Internal Medicine, Chicago, 1918, 

xxii, 129-156. 
. A clinical and sanitary study of the fur and hatters' fur trade. New 

York, 1915. (Dept. of Health, City New York, Monograph series No. 12.) 
. Labor sanitation conference. New York City Department of Health 

Bulletin, 1917, vii, 61-66. 
. Municipality in industrial hygiene. Scientific American Supplement, 

New York, 1917, Ixxxiii, 2-3. 

The opportunities which industrial hygiene offers to the general practi- 



tioner and to the public health officer. New York, 1917. (Department of 

Health, City of New York, Reprint series No. 62.) 
HARVEY, A. M. Oblique inguinal hernia. Tel. Med. Journal, vol. xxxiii, No. 3, 

p. 154. 
HATFIELD, C. J. Tuberculosis as it affects the worker. Monthly Bulletin of the 

Pennsylvania Department of Labor, Harrisburg, 1917, iv, 99-106. 
HAXJLTAIN, H. E. T. Industrial rehabilitation. Canadian Medical Association 

Journal, Toronto, 1918, viii, 703-705. 
HATJTEY, HORTON SMITH P. Tuberculosis in its relation to the war after 

employment of the tuberculous. Recalled to life. London, Sept., 1917. 
HAWES, J. B., JR. Tuberculosis; an industrial accident. Medicine and Surgery, 

St.' Louis, 1917, i, 777-779. 
HAYHURST, E. R. The classification of hazardous occupations. American 

Journal of Public Health, New York, 1916, vi, 460-469. 
. Compulsory state-wide health insurance and its relation to the medical 

service. Modern Hospital, St. Louis, 1916, vi, 420-424. 
t Industrial hygiene. Ohio Public Health Journal, Columbus, 1916, 

vii, 153. 

. The need for a general system of sanitary supervision of 

in times of war. American Journal of Public Health, Concord, 1918, viii, 

301303 
. Occupational diseases. Ohio Public Health Journal, Columbus, 1917, 

viii, 33-38. 
. Relation of industrial diseases and accidents to medicine. 

Medical Journal, Columbus, 1916, xii, 20. 
. A survey of industrial health-hazards and occupational disease! 



810 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

Ohio. Ohio Public Health Journal, Columbus, 1915-16, vi, 44, 289, 419, 

514, 655. 
Health insurance. Michigan State Board of Health Bulletin, Lansing, 1917, 

v, 423-430. 
Health insurance officially endorsed. American Labor Legislation Review, 

New York, 1917, vii, 201-225. 
Health of munition workers in relation to their working output. Journal of the 

American Medical Association, Chicago, 1917, Ixviii, 203-204. 
Health of munition workers. British Medical Journal, London, 1917, I, 847; II, 49. 
Health (the) of munition workers. Lancet, London, 1917, I, 692. 
Health (the) of munition workers. Lancet, London, 1916, I, 785. 
Health and sanitation work in the shipyards. New York Medical Journal, 1918, 

cviii, 598. 
Health and welfare of munition workers outside the factory. Monthly Review of 

the U. S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, Washington, 1917, v, 291. 
HENDERSCHOTT, F. C. AND WEAKLY, F. E. The employment department and 

employee's relations. LaSalle Extension University, Chicago, 1918. 
HENRY, B. F. Some observations on dust separator problems. Metal Worker, 

Plumber and Steam-fitter, New York, 1917, Ixxxvii, 479-481. 
HEWES, AMY AND HENRIETTE R. WALTER. Women as munition makers. New 

York, 1917. 
HIGHLEY, G. O. The safe limit of carbon dioxide in the working atmosphere. 

American Journal of Public Health, Concord, 1918, viii, 477-481. 
HOCHHAUSER, EDWARD. Home treatment for the tuberculous. Modern Hospital, 

St. Louis, 1917, viii, 207-208. 
HOFFMAN, FREDERICK LUDWIG. Mortality from respiratory diseases in dusty 

trades. Washington, 1918. (Bulletin of the U. S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, 

No. 231.) 
. Omission of occupational diseases as a defect in workmen's compensation 

laws. In: Proceedings of the Conference of Social Insurance, 1916, Washing- 
ton, 1917, p. 377-417. 
-. . Some fallacies of compulsory health insurance. Scientific Monthly, 

Garrison, N. Y., 1917, iv, 306-315. . ^ 

Some theoretical and practical aspects of industrial medicine. Transac- 



tions of the College of Physicians, Philadelphia, 1917, 3 s., xxxix, 421438. 

HOLDEN, O. The effects of electric arc welding upon the eyes and skin. British 
Medical Journal, London, 1918, I, 454. 

HOLMAN, DUDLEY M. Educational work in accident prevention. Proceedings 
of the International Association of Industrial Accident Boards, 1916, Washing- 
ton, 1917, iii, 128-144; 151-157. 

. The problem of the handicapped man. Bulletin of the United States 

Bureau of Labor Statistics, No. 212, Washington, 1917, p. 348-357. 

HOOKSTADT, CARL. Comparison of experience under workmen's compensation 
and employers' liability systems. Monthly Labor Review, Washington, 1919, 
viii, No. 3, p. 230-248. 

. Probability of an industrial cripple sustaining a second injury. Monthly 

Labor Review, Washington, 1919, viii, No. 3, p. 79-84. 

. Problem of the handicapped man in industry. Monthly Review of 

the U. S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, Washington, 1918, vi, No. 3, p. 87-92. 

. Shall the ambitious cripple suffer loss of workmen's compensation bene- 
fits? American Labor Legislation Review, New York, 1919, ix, 137-140. 

. What becomes of men crippled in industry? Monthly Labor Review, 



Washington, 1918, vii, No. 1, p. 32-49. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 811 

HOPKINS, C. W. Industrial welfare work as applied to railroads. Railway 
Surgical Journal, Chicago, 1917-1918, xxiv, 29-36. 

. Traumatic hernia, so-called among railway employees. International 

Journal of Surgery, New York, 1916, xxix, 24-28. 
Hospital work and x-ray research. Eastman kodak company, Rochester, N. Y. 

Modern Hospital, St. Louis, 1917, viii, 295-296. 
Hours, fatigue and health in British munition factories. Washington, 1917. 

(U. S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. Bulletin No. 221.) 
Hours of labor; industrial fatigue and output in England. Scientific American 

Supplement, New York, 1917, Ixxix, 290. 
How industrial fatigue may be reduced. Public Health Reports, Washington 

1918, xxxiii, 1347-1355. 

HOWELL, THOMAS. Hospitals and workmen's compensation. Operation of com- 
pensation laws to decrease industrial accidents and to improve traumatic 

surgery. Modem Hospital, St. Louis, 1917, ix, 234-239. 
HOWK, H. J. AND D. EVERETT WAID. Metropolitan life insurance company 

tuberculosis sanatorium. Modern Hospital, St. Louis, 1916, 278-287. 
HUDSON, W. G. Medical supervision of trijnitrotolnol workers. New York 

Medical Journal, 1918, cvii, 723. 
. Safeguards in the manufacture of explosives. New York Medical Journal, 

1918, cvii, 248-250. 

Industrial accidents. Journal of the American Medical Association, Chicago, 

1916, Ixvii, 1307-1308. 

Industrial accidents among bridge and structural-iron workers, Chicago. Monthly 

Labor Review, Washington, 1919, viii, No. 3, pp. 225-226. 
Industrial accidents in Massachusetts in 1916-1917. Monthly Labor Review, 

Washington, 1919, viii, No. 3, pp. 223-225. 

Industrial cripples and rehabilitation. Survey, New York, 1918, xl, 162. 
Industrial fatigue; investigation by means of factory statistics. Public Health 

Reports, Washington, 1918, xxxiii, 1733. 
Industrial surgeons ask U. S. for recognition. Association says care of workers 

is necessary war measure. Reconstruction machinery to help industrial 

cripples. Hospital Management, Chicago, 1918, v, No. 5, pp. 32, 34, 36, 38. 
Injurious dusts in steel works. Monthly Review of the U. S. Bureau of Labor 

Statistics, Washington, 1917, v, 285. 
Insurance, old age, unemployment, sickness, etc. Journal of the American 

Medical Association, Chicago, 1917, Ixviii, 1730-1755. 
Is hernia a compensable injury or a disease? Monthly Labor Review, Washington, 

1919, viii, 3, p. 249-250. 

JACKSON, J. P. The attitude of the Dept. of Labor and Industry toward the 
problem of occupational diseases. Pennsylvania Medical Journal, Athens, 

1917, xx, 472-478. 

JARRETT, MARY C. The psychopathic employee: a problem of industry. Medi- 
cine and Surgery, St. Louis, 1917, i, 727-741. 

JENKINS, FREDERICK WARREN AND BERTHA FAIRFIELD. Employment for the 
handicapped, a selected bibliography, New York, 1917. 

JONES, RTTTH MONTGOMERY. A placement bureau for the handicapped. Modern 
Hospital, St. Louis, 1918, x, 165-169. 

JONES, N. M. Some medical and surgical problems and their solution from the 
viewpoint of the public service corporation surgeon. Pennsylvania Medical 
Journal, Athens, 1918, xxi, 352-355. 



812 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

KAHN, M. H. Report of the committee on industrial hygiene of the retail dry goods 

association. Medical Record, New York, 1916, xc, 943-945. 
KANE, E. O'H. Women in railway service as viewed from a surgical standpoint, 

pertinent to the present world war. International Journal of Surgery, 

New York, 1917, xxx, 362-364. 
KAYLOR, R. J. Youngstown Sheet and Tube Company's Hospital. Modern 

Hospital, St. Louis, 1916, vii, 109-110. 
KELLY, D. F. The department store hospital. Modern Hospital, St. Louis, 

1916, vii, 345-346. 

KENT, A. F. STANLEY. Fatigue induced by labor. Bristol Medico-Chirurgical 

Journal, 1917, xxxv, 47-60. 

. Second interim report on an investigation of industrial fatigue by physio- 
logical methods, London, 1916. 
KERR, J. W. Relation of public health service to problems of industrial hygiene. 

American Journal of Public Health, Concord, 1917, vii, 776-782. 
KERR, J. W., S. M. McCuRDY AND O. P. GEIER. The scope of industrial hygiene. 

Journal of the American Medical Association, Chicago, 1916, Ixvii, 1821-1862. 
KINGSTON, G. A. A comparison of the treatment of permanent partial disability 

cases. Proceedings of the International Association of Industrial Accident 

Boards, 1916, Washington, 1917, iii, 159-163. 
KIRKWOOD, FRANCES. Following a vision of better men and women. Modern 

Hospital, St. Louis, 1917, ix, 221-222. 
KNOEPPEL, C. E. Women in Industry, Society of Industrial Engineers & Western 

Efficiency Society, Chicago, 1918. 
KOBICK, HENRY G. "Health First" is the motto. Modern Hospital, St. Louis, 

1917, viii, 231-232. 

KOELSCH. Gewerbehygienische Uebersicht. Munchener medicinische Wochen- 

schrift, 1918, xxxiii, 1347-1355. 
KOELSCH, F. AND A. ARNSTEIN. Ueber die Lungenerkrankungen der Steinhauer. 

Zentralblatt fur Gewerbehygiene, Berlin, 1915, iii, 259-264, 273-279. 
KORTEWEG, J. A. Het ongevallen-percentage en de fabrieksdokter. Nederal- 

andsch Tyjdschrift von Geneeskunde, Amsterdam, 1917, Ix, 597-614. 
KRANTZ. Explosion einer Anlage zur Herstellung von Wasserstoff . Zentralblatt 

fur Gerwerbehygiene, Berlin, 1915, iii, 253-259. 

LAMBERT, ALEXANDER. Medical organization under health insurance. American 

Association Labor Legislation, Columbus, 1916. 
LANDIS, H. R. M. Health efficiency of workers due to their living conditions. 

International Clinics, Philadelphia, 1917, 27 s., i, 138-144. 

LAPP, JOHN A. Health insurance and the hospital. American Hospital Associa- 
tion, Atlanta, Sept. 27, 1918. 
LANDRY, L. H. Intracranial hemorrhage due to traumatic rupture of arteria 

meningea media, report of six operated cases with one death. Southern 

Medical Journal, Nashville, 1916, ix, 157-166. 
LANZA, A. J. Hazards of metal mining. Medical Record, New York, 1918, xciv, 

394. 
. Miner's consumption: a study of 433 cases of the disease among zinc 

miners in southwestern Missouri. Wisconsin Medical Journal, Milwaukee, 

1917, xvi, 64-66. 
LAUFFER, CHAS. A. Inguinal hernia viewed as an anatomical defect. Second 

Conference Industrial Surgeons, Harrisburg, May 18, 1916. 
LEAKE, J. P. Health hazards from the use of the air hammer in cutting Indiana 

limestone. Public Health Reports, Washington, 1918, xxxiii, 379-393. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 813 

fc, 

LECLERCQ, J., MAZEL, AND R. DUJARRIC DE LA RIVIERE. R61e du m&licin dans 

1'industrie apres la guerre; orientation et utilisation physiologiques de 1'ouv- 

rier. Annales de Hygiene et de Medicin Le~gale, Paris, 1917, xxvii, 345^390. 
LEE, FREDERIC SCHILLER. The human machine in industry. Columbia Alumni 

News, New York, 1918, ix, No. 14, pp. 1-10. 
-. Industrial efficiency; the bearing of physiological science thereon; a 

review of recent work. Public Health Reports, Washington, 1918, xxxiii, 

29-35. 

. Industrial service in tire factory. Modern Hospital, St. Louis, 1917, 

viii, 353. 

Periodic examination of employees. Modern Hospital, St. Louis, 1916, 



vii, 350. 
LEMON, C. H. Medical supervision of street railway employees. Journal of the 

American Medical Association, Chicago, 1917, Ixviii, 95-98. 
. Social medicine hi the industries. Wisconsin Medical Journal, Mil- 
waukee, 1917-1918, xvi, 453-459. 
LESIEUR, C. Hygiene des travailleurs. Du r61e des adjoints techniques dans la 

surveillance hygienique et e'pid^miologique des travailleurs francais indigenes 

et Strangers employes dans les 6stablissements travaillant pour la guerre. 

Archives de M6decine et de Pharmacie Militaires, Paris, 1917, Ixvii, 76-96. 
LEVINGS, A. H. Traumatic hernia and traumatic orchites in relation to workmen's 

compensation. Wisconsin Medical Journal, Milwaukee, 1915, xiv, 273-276. 
LEVY, E. Workers in compressed air; precautions adopted by the N. Y. Public 

Service Commission for protecting their health. Scientific American Supple- 
ment, New York, 1917, Ixxxiv, 73. 
LIGHT, A. B. Thresher's fever. Therapeutic Gazette, Detroit, 1918, xxxiv, 615- 

619. 
LITTLE, R. M. Who shall bear the extraordinary compensation cost of total 

disability caused by successive injuries ? American Labor Legislation Review, 

New York, 1919, ix, 141-149. 
LORD, C. B. Athletics for working force. Industrial Management, New York, 

1917, liv, 44-49. 
LOVEJOT, F. W. Big benefit fund basis of welfare work. Modern Hospital, 

St. Louis, 1916, vii, 349. 
LOWMAN, J. B. Value of physical examination as a factor hi the prevention of 

industrial injury. Pennsylvania Medical Journal, Athens, 1916, xx, 48-55. 
LYNOTT, W. A. Bureau of mines' studies of occupational diseases. Journal of 

Industrial and Engineering Chemistry, Easton, 1916, viii, 1062-1064. 
LYONS, BARROW B. Northeastern hospital of Philadelphia to serve corporations on 

a co-operative basis. Modern Hospital, St. Louis, 1917, ix, 306-307. 

MCALLISTER, J. B. How the workmen's compensation act may be made satisfac- 
tory to the profession. Pennsylvania Medical Journal, Athens, 1916, xix, 
736-739. 

MCCLEERY, AGNES P. The value of employees' medical and social service depart- 
ments. Modern Hospital, St. Louis, 1916, vii, 208-210. 

McCoMAS, R. T. Welfare work of Cincinnati and Suburban telephone company 
includes country home where girls go to rest. Modern Hospital, St. Louis, 
1917, viii, 75-77. 

McCuLLouGH, J. W. S. Hours of work in relation to efficiency and < 
munition workers. American Medicine, Burlington, 1917, xxm, 402. 

McCuRDY, S. M. The industrial dispensary in preventive medicine. Journal of 
the American Medical Association, Chicago, 1917, Ixix, 1318. 



814 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

McCtrRDY, S. M. Physical examination and regeneration of employees. Journa 
of the American Medical Association, Chicago, 1915, Ixv, 2050-2054. 

MACDONALD, J. S. Man's mechanical efficiency hi work performance and the cost 
of movements involves (treated separately). Proceeding of the Royal Society, 
London, 1917, Ixxxix, 394-410. 

McKENDRicK, ARCHIBALD. Back injuries and their significance under the work- 
men's compensation and other acts. Edinburgh, 1916. 

McKENNA, H. Infections of the hand; their diagnosis and treatment. Kentucky 
Medical Journal, Bowling Green, 1917, xv, 290-292. 

MACKEY, HARRY A. Employment opportunities for rehabilitated men in Pennsyl- 
vania. American Labor Legislation Review, New York, 1919, ix, 130-133. 

. Medical questions in the Pennsylvania compensation act, New York, 

1916. Reprinted from New York Medical Journal, April 22 and 29, 1916. 

. Pennsylvania's compensation law and the docter, Pennsylvania Medical 

Journal, 1916, xix, 725-730. 

Reclamation of the human scrap heap. 1919. Reprinted from North 



American, January 5, 1919. 
McLsoD, NORMAN. What sick and crippled men are doing for the Ford Motor 

company. Modern Hospital, Chicago, 1919, xii, 1-3. 

McMuRTRiE, DOUGLAS C. The rehabilitation of the disabled civilian. Testi- 
mony submitted to the Joint committee on education and labor of the Senate 

and House of Representatives hi hearing on the Bankhead-Smith bill, 

December 10-12, 1918. New York, 1918. 
MARKS, L. B. Practical standards for factory illumination. American Journal 

of Public Health, Concord, 1918, viii, 363-367. 
MARRIOTT, R. H. Engineering precautions in radio-installations. Scientific 

American Supplement, New York, 1917, Ixxxiii, 266. 
MARSH, B. C. Economic foundations for health. New York State Journal of 

Medicine, New York, 1917, xvii, 184-187. 
MARSHALL, WILLIAM A. Rehabilitating the disabled victims of industry. Oregon 

Voter, Portland, 1918, xiii, No. 13, p. 13. 
Massachusetts. Board of Education. Special report of the board of education 

relative to training for injured persons. Boston, 1917. (House Document 

No. 1733.) 
. House of Representatives. An act to establish a division for the training 

of crippled and injured persons in the department of the industrial accident 

board. Boston, 1918. House No. 1529. 
. Legislature. Resolve directing the board of education to investigate the 

subject of special training for injured persons. Boston, 1916. 
MARQUIS, S. S. The factory doctor. Transactions American Association of 

Industrial Physicians and Surgeons, Chicago, 1916. 
Massachusetts laws for training disabled soldiers and persons crippled hi industry. 

Monthly Labor Review, Washington, 1918, vii, No. 1, p. 50-51. 
MASSEY, G. B. Electrodiagnosis in industrial accidents, war wounds, and affec- 
tions of the motor apparatus. Journal of the Medical Society of New Jersey, 

Orange, 1918, xv, 146-148. 
Maximum temperature in which a workman can work. Heating and Ventilating 

Magazine, New York, 1917, xiv, No. 4, p. 46-47. 
MEAD, J. E. Rehabilitating cripples at Ford plant. Iron Age, New York, 1918, 

cii, 739-742. 
Medical Research Committee, London. A report on the causes of wastage of 

labor in munitions factories employing women, London, 1918. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Medical examination of employees. Report of Committeee on Factories, Chicago 

Tuberculosis Institute, 1915. 
MENGEL, S. P. Some medical and surgical problems and their solutions: from the 

point of view of the mining surgeon. Proceedings of the Conference of 

Industrial Physicians and Surgeons, Athens, Pa., 1918, v, 1-6, 13. 
MERCADE. Large dventration inguine-abdominale consecutive aune plaie de 

guerre. Restauration de la paroi par myoplastie au d6pens du conturier. 

Bulletins et M6moires de la Societe de Chirurgie de Paris, 1916, xlii, 414. 
MERIAN, L. Ein Fall von Konditorerkrankung. Correspondenz-Blatt fur 

schweizer Aerzte, Basel, 1916, xlvi, 305. 

. Ueber Haarvwramderung bei Munitionsund Kupterarbeitem. Corre- 
spondenz-Blatt fur schweizer Aerzte, Basel, 1916, xlvi, 303-305. 
MERRILL, W. H. Workingmen's compensation for accident and sickness from the 

point of view of the general practitioner. Boston Medical and Surgical 

Journal, 1916, clxxv, 902-905. 
MILLER, T. G. A sociologic and medical study of four hundred cigar workers in 

Philadelphia. American Journal of the American Sciences, Philadelphia, 

1918, civ, 157-175. 
MILLER, T. G. AND O. H. PEPPER. Experiments in the breathing of acid fumes; 

preliminary note. Proceedings of the Pathological Society of Philadelphia, 

1918, xxxviii, 32. 
MILLER, T. G. AND H. F. SMITH. The dust hazard in certain industries. Journal 

of the American Medical Association, Chicago, 1918, Ixx, 599. 
MILLIGAN, J. D. Methods and results of first aid as established by the Pittsburgh 

and Lake Erie Railroad Company. Pennsylvania Medical Journal, Athens, 

1916, xix, 689-694. 
MILTIMORE, E. The relation of occupation to disease. Medicine and Surgery, 

St. Louis, 1917, i, 750-760. 
MITCHELL, D. Bichromate works and the effects on the workers. Journal of 

State Medicine, London, 1916, xxiv, 18-25. 
MITCHELL, JOHN. Rehabilitation legislation in the reconstruction program. 

American Labor Legislation Review, New York, 1919, ix, 150-151. 

. Vocational rehabilitation of crippled industrial workers. New York, 1918. 

MOCK, HARRY E. Industrial medicine and surgery the new specialty. Journal 

of the American Medical Association, Chicago, 1917, Ixviii, 1-4. 
. Night clinic on industrial medicine and surgery at Rush Medical College. 

Interstate Medical Journal, St. Louis, 1917, xxiv, 300. 
. Present status of medical examination of employees. In: National 

Association for the Study and Prevention of Tuberculosis. Transactions, New 

York, 1916, xii, 219-224. 
. Human Maintenance in the industrial army during the war. Transactions 

National Safety Council, 1917. 

Rehabilitation of industrial disabled. Testimony given before Joint 



committee on education and labor of the Senate and House of Representatives 
in hearing on Bankhead-Smith bill, Dec. 10-12, 1918, Congressional Record. 

MOLLAN, F. G. Medical supervision of the coal tar industries. Buffalo Medical 
Journal, 1918-19, Ixxiv, 79-84. 

MOORE, SAMUEL H. Industrial welfare work. Illinois Gas Association, Chicago, 
Mar. 22, 1916. 

MOORHEAD, JOHN J. "Traumatic Surgery." Philadelphia, 1917. 

. Traumatic Hernia, Bulletin American Association of Industrial Physi- 
cians and Surgeons, 1917. 



816 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

MORGAN, J. L. Factory run by crippled men. Technical World, Chicago, 1912, 

xvii, 710-711. 
MORI, A. Contribute alle affezioni professional!; affezioni dei portatori col big61 

del Padovano e del Venato. Ramazzini, Firenze, 1916, x, 89-98. 
. Delle Asimmetrie delle regioni esterne del corpo umano in rapporto alia 

patolagia del lavoro. Lavoro, Milan, 1915, viii, 237-245. 

La Patologia dei cavatori di alabastromarmai di Castellina Marittima 



Ramazzini, Firenze, 1916, x, 99-136. 
MORRISON, M. L. Employment certificates. New York City Dept. of Health 

Bulletin, 1917, vii, 73-77. 
MOSCHCOWITZ, ALEXIS V. The relation of hernia to the workmen's compensation 

law. The Medical Record, Apr. 3, 1915. 
MULREADY, E. The activities of a labor department. Boston Medical and 

Surgical Journal, 1917, clxxvii, 576-578. 
MUNSON, E. L., COL. "The Soldier's Foot and the Military Shoe." Collegiate 

Press, Menasha, Wis. 

National Civic Federation. The problem of pensions, Washington, Jan., 1916. 
National Industrial Conference Board. Sickness insurance or sickness prevention, 

Boston, 1918. (Research report No. 6.) 
. Workmen's Compensation acts in the U. S. the legal phase, Boston, 

Apr., 1917. 

Wartime employment<of women in the metal trades, Boston, July, 1918. 



New York. Mayor's Committee on National Defense. Report of the Committee 
in industry and employment. New York, 1917. 

New York (State). Department of Labor. Industrial Commission. Bureau of 
Statistics and information. European regulations for the prevention of 
occupational diseases. 

. Albany, 1916. (In: New York (State) Department of Labor. Indus- 
trial commission. Special bulletin No. 77.) 

New York State Bureau of Inspection. Health hazards of the cloth sponging 
industry. New York, 1918. 

New York. Legislature. A bill to provide for men disabled in industry to take 
special training at state expense. Assembly bill No. 1907. 

OCHSNER, A. J. Infections following injuries. Railway Surgical Journal, Chicago, 

1917, xxiii, 321-326. 
OGDEN, C. K. Industrial fatigue. Nineteenth Century, New York, 1917, Ixxxi, 

413-433. 
OLDRIGHT. International congress of diseases of labor. Public Health Journal, 

Toronto, 1916, vii, 440. 
OLIVER, SIR THOMAS. "Occupations, from the Social, Hygienic and Medical 

Points of View." Cambridge, 1916. 
. The hygiene of occupation during the war. Medical press and Circular, 

London, 1917, ciii, 322-346. 
OPPENHEIM, M. Hautschadigungen in Munitionsfabriken mit besonderer 

Berucksichtigung der Quecksilberwyrkung. Wiener klinische Wochenschrif t, 

1915, xxviii, 1273-1278. 
. t)ber die Hauschadigungen der Munitionsarbeiter. Wiener Klinisch 

Wochenschrift, 1917, xxx, 544. 

ORDWAY, THOMAS. Occupational diseases due to radium. Journal of the Ameri- 
can Medical Association, Chicago, 1916, Ixvi, 1-6. 



Outlook (the) for disabled workmen. Travelers' Standard, Hartford 1918 vi. 
56-59. 

Openings in Industry suitable for disabled sailors and soldiers. Fifteen reports 
prepared by Ministry of Labor and Ministry of Pensions, British Government 
1917. His Majesty's stationery office, London. 

PARLETT, E. M. Health and welfare of the railroad employee. University 
Gazette, Baltimore, 1917, iv, 161-166. 

PATTERSON, FRANCIS D. Laws of Pennsylvania relating to industrial hygiene. 

Pennsylvania Medical Journal, Athens, 1916, xx, 6-13. 

. Prevention of occupational diseases and industrial accidents. Pennsyl- 
vania Medical Journal, Athens, 1916, xix, 581. 

The relation of the physician to some of the problems of modern industry. 

Medicine and Surgery, St. Louis, 1917, i, 719-726. 

. The physical reconstruction and industrial rehabilitation of the wounded 

and diseases. Medicine and Surgery, St. Louis, 1918, ii, 127-135. 

Industrial training for the wounded. Annals of the American Academy 



of Political and Social Science, Concord, 1918, Ixxx, No. 169, pp. 40-42. 
PEARSON, ROBERT H. "Occupational Diseases." New York, 1915. 
PERI, A. Intorno ad un ernia inguinale attribuita ad infortunio sul lavoro. 

Cesalpino, Arezzo, 1915, xi, 121, 229, 334, 355. 
Periodic examination of Health department employers. Journal of American 

Medical Association, Chicago, 1917, Ixviii, 2004. 
Periodical examinations now routine. New York Health department employees 

find the practice in their interest. Modern Hospital, St. Louis, 1917, viii, 106. 
PESL, D. Leitsatze ttber Massnahmen zur Verbesserung der Lage der Heimar- 

beiterinnen. Munchen medicinische Wochenschrift, 1917, Ixiv, 971. 
PICCININI, P. Polveri e casami di saggina in rapporto alia igiene del vavore degli 

scopai. Rivista d'Igiene e Sanita Pubbica, Roma, 1918, xxix, 1-8. 
PLUMMER, S. C. Relative importance of strain and anatomical predisposition in 

causation of hernia. Chicago Medical Record, vol. xxxvii, p. 307. 
POMETTA, D. Gewerbevergiftungen und Berufskrankheiten. Correspondenz- 

Blatt fur Schweizer Aerzte, Basel, 1917, xlvii, 147-158. 
POST, W. E. Some phases of medical supervision of employees. Medicine and 

Surgery, St. Louis, 1917, i, 772-776. 
POWELL, T. R. Workmen's compensation acts. Political Science Quarterly, 

New York, 1917, xxxii, 542-569. 
PRICE, GEORGE M. Cloak, suit, skirt, dress and waist industries. Development 

of the welfare work of the joint board of sanitary control of New York in cer- 
tain industries. Modern Hospital, St. Louis, 1916, vii, 111-114. 
. Employment of women in chemical industries. Survey, New York, 

1918, xli, 345-347. 
. Medicine and the industries. Journal of Sociologic Medicine, Easton, 

1917, xviii, 134-139. 

Practical standards for factory sanitation. American Journal of Public 



Health, Concord, 1918, viii, 288-290. 
PROSSER, CHAS. Rehabilitation of industrial disabled. Testimony given before 

the joint committee on education and labor of the Senate and the House of 

Representatives in hearing on Bankhead-Smith bill, Dec. 10-12., 1918, 

Congressional Record. 
R. MERKBLATT fur Fabriken in denen Trinitrotoluol hergestellt oder verarbeitet 

wird. Midizinische Klinik, Berlin, 1917, xiii, 1281. 

52 



818 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

RAND, W. H. Industrial accidents and occupational diseases. Medical Council,. 

Philadelphia, 1918, xxiii, 827-830. 
. Latest feature in the diagnosis and prevention of some of the occupational 

poisonings. American Journal of Public Health, Concord, N. H., 1916, vi, 

830-835. 

Missing links in the chain of evidence concerning occupational diseases. 



American Journal of Public Health, Concord, 1917, 835-839. 
Rand Mines, Limited. Annual report of the department of sanitation for the year 

1916. Johannesburg, 1917. 

REDFIELD, W. C. The wasters of the world. American Journal of Public Health, 

New York, 1916, vi, 18-27. 
REDWAY, J. W. Dust and miners' tuberculosis. Medical Times, New York, 1918 r 

xlvi, 100. 
Rehabilitating the tuberculous soldier and worker. Modern Hospital, St. Louis,. 

1918, xi, 46-^8. 
Rehabilitation of injured workmen in Wisconsin. Monthly Labor Review, 

Washington, 1918, vii, No. 3, pp. 85-87. 
Reports of federal and state workmen's compensation experience. Monthly 

Labor Review, Washington, 1919, viii, No. 3, p. 250-264. 
REILLY, J. J. Medical services at Hog Island. New York Medical Journal,. 

1918, cviii, 881. 
Report of committee on safety and health. National Association of Corporation 

Schools, Pittsburgh, May 31, 1916. 
Reports of Welfare and Efficiency Conferences, Dept. of Labor and Industry,. 

Pennsylvania, 1916, 1917, 1918. 
REINEKING, H. Hydrocele and orchites; their relation to trauma. American 

Journal of Surgery, New York, 1916, xxx, 229-231. 
RIDDLE, S. S. Pennsylvania's part in the national plan for rehabilitating and 

placing in industry soldiers and sailors disabled in war service. Bulletin 

Penn. Dpt. Labor and Industry, 1918. 
RIGBY, ELFRIDA. Placing cripples in industry. Modern Hospital, St. Louis, 

1917, ix, 417. 

RING, D. Sanitation of factories. Public Health Journal, Toronto, 1919, viii,. 

266-271. 
RISLEY, E. H. The importance of the workingman's hand and its treatment- 

when involved in sepsis. Dominion Medical Monthly, Toronto, 1918, li,. 

1-11. 
RDCFORD, E. Surgical aspects of industrial insurance. Journal of the American 

Medical Association, Chicago, 1916, Ixvii, 1004-1011. 
ROACH, J. Hygienic and sanitary equipment. Industrial Management, New 

York, 1917, liv, 20-29. 

ROBERTS, J. E. H. Workmen and hernia. Lancet, London, vol. ii, p. 1503. 
ROBERTSON, V. OTIS. Rehabilitation of industrial cripples in Massachusetts. 

American Labor Legislation Review, New York, 1919, ix, 126-129. 
ROBINSON, D. E. AND J. G. WILSON. Tuberculosis among industrial workers, 

report of an investigation made in Cincinnati, with special reference to 

predisposing causes, Washington, 1916. (Public Health Bulletin, No. 73.) 
ROSEY, C. S. The feeble-minded in industry. Modern Hospital, St. Louis, 1917, 

ix, 204-206. 
. Mental examination for employees. Industrial Management, New 

York, 1917, liv, 359-365. 
ROTTTSONG, R. C. Workshop education in hygiene. American Journal of Public 

Health, New York, 1916, vi, 139-142. 






BIBLIOGRAPHY 

RTJBINOW, I. M. Health insurance, practice of medicine and public health. 
Public Health Journal, Toronto, 1917, viii, 318-327. 

. Survey of spreading health insurance movement. Public Health 
Journal, Toronto, 1917, viii, 92-100. 

SAFFORD, M. V. Influence of occupation on health during adolescence (cotton 
industry). Washington, 1916. (U. S. Public Health Bulletin, No. 78.) 

SAVARD. Remarques sur Tinspection medicale des industries. Bulletin medical 
de Quebec, 1916, xviii, 159-163. 

SCARBURGH, R. S. Welfare work of the New York telephone company. Modern 
Hospital, St. Louis, 1917, ix, 62-5. 

Scars, the, of war; the nation's duty to its disabled men. Ex-service Man, 
London, 1919, i, No. 19. 

Schedule for hand injuries under the New York law. Monthly Labor Review, 
Washington, 1919, viii, No. 3, pp. 248-249. 

SCHERESCHEWSKY, J. W. Health of garment workers: the relation of economic 
status to health. Public Health Reports, Washington, 1916, xxxi, 1298-1305. 

. Industrial hygiene. A plan for education in the avoidance of occupa- 
tional diseases and injuries. Washington, 1915. Reprinted from Public 
Health Reports, No. 302, Oct. 1, 1915. 

. Industrial insurance. Medical examination of employees and prevention 

of sickness and its proper function. Washington, 1914. Reprinted from 
Public Health Reports, No. 197, June 5, 1914. 

. Maintenance of health in industries, its relation to adequate production 

of war materials. Public Health Reports, Washington, 1917, xxxii, 835-839. 

. Methods of prevention and control of disease in the war industries. 

Medical Insurance and Health Conservation, Dallas, 1917-1918, xxvii, 408- 
411. 

. The occupational hazard in the chemical industry; the need for prophy- 
laxis. Journal of Industry and Engineering Chemistry, Easton, 1916, viii, 1055. 

. A plan for education in industrial hygiene and the avoidance of occupa- 
tional complaints. American Journal of Public Health, Concord, 1916, vi, 
1031-1038. 

. The relation of the industrial physician to the problems of modern 

industry. Journal of Sociologic Medicine, Easton, 1917, xviii, 140-150. 

Trinitrotoluol: practical points in its safe handling. Public Health 



Reports, Washington, 1917, xxxii, 1919-1926. 

SCOTT, A. Deformity as a cause of industrial disablement or inefficiency. Journal 
of State Medicine, London, 1916, xxiv, 40-60. 

SELBY, S. D. Medical service in the conservation of industrial man power. Jour- 
nal of American Medical Association, Chicago, 1918, Ixxii, 333-336. 

. A proposed bureau of industrial safety, sanitation and hygiene to be 

maintained on the mutual plan. American Journal of Public Health, Concord, 
1916, vi, 1187-1189. 

. Relation of industry to health department. Ohio State Board of Health 

Bulletin, Columbus, 1917, viii, 66-71. 

Physicians in industry. Report of U. S. Public Health Service, 1918. 



SELIGMANN, CARRIE M. A workroom for cripples. American Journal of Care 

for Cripples, New York, 1916, iii, 164-166. 
SEMPLE, MRS. S. The health hazards to women as the result of the war emergency. 

Proceedings of the Conference of Industrial Physicians and Surgeons, Athens, 

1918, vi, 3-7. 



820 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

SHAD WELL, A. Welfare of factory workers. -Edinburgh Review, New York, 1916, 

ccxxiv, 361-381. 
SHERMAN, WM. O'NEILL. Carrel method of wound sterilization ; its use in military, 

industrial, and civil practice. Surgery, Gynecology and Obstetrics, Mch. ,1917. 
SHIE, MARVIN D. Wound infection among lathe workers; an investigation into 

some of the factors causing wound infection in industrial surgery and methods 

of obviating them. Journal of the American Medical Association, Chicago, 

1917, Ixix, 1927-1930. 

SHOTJDT, LOYAL A. Medical supervision of workers and its relation to the preven- 
tion of industrial accidents. Journal of Sociologic Medicine, Easton, 1917, 
xviii, 56-75. 

. The nation's neglect The failure to reconstruct and rehabilitate the 

wounded in industry. In: Proceedings of the Sixth Conference of Industrial 
Physicians and Surgeons, Harrisburg, 1918, pp. 10-13. 

SILVER, DAVID. The problem of the artificial arm. Journal A. M. A., vol. Ixxi, 
pp. 181-182. 

SLAVIERO, G. Dialcune affezioni frequent! nei coltivatori della canapa. Lavoro, 
Milano, 1915, viii, 289-300. 

SMITH, L. H. The blood of workers in trintrotoluene. Journal of the American 
Medical Association, Chicago, 1918, Ixx, 231. 

SMITH, W. B. Industrial hernia. California State Journal of Medicine, San 
Francisco, 1916, xiv, 351. 

SMYTH, H. F. Dust in industry. Scientific Monthly, New York, 1918, vi, 56-64. 

SNOW, W. F. AND W. A. SAWYER. Venereal disease control in the army, Journal 
A. M. A., vol. Ixxi, pp. 456-462. 

Social insurance laws re workmen's compensation during 1917 also health in- 
surance. American Labor Legislation Review, New York, 1917, vii, 573-596. 

Society of Medical Jurisprudence. Report of the committee on industrial insur- 
ance, Feb. 2, 1917, New York, 1917. 

SOUTHARD, W. F. Necessity for efficiency in examination of eyes and ears of 
railroad employees. Pacific Medical Journal, San Francisco, 1916, lix, 88-95. 

SPOONER, H. G. Industrial fatigue in its relation to maximum output. London, 
n.d. 

STAEBLER, ANNA M. Conservation of man power in industry. Boston Medical 
and Surgical' Journal, 1918, clxxviii, 868-871. 

STEARNS, H. Neglected causes of fatigue. New Republic, New York, 1917, 
x, 347-350. 

STENGEL, A. E. Aid from the medical profession in the prevention of disease in the 
war industries. Medical Insurance and Health Conservation, Dallas, 1917- 

1918, xxvii, 413^14. 

. Relation of extreme temperatures to the efficiency of the workman. 

Second Conference Industrial Physicians, Harrisburg, May 18, 1916. 

STERN, F. AND G. T. SPITZ. Food for the worker '-food values and the cost of 
menus and recipes for seven weeks. Boston, 1917. 

STEWART, I. S. Notes on the sanatorium treatment of industrial patients. Prac- 
titioner, London, 1916, xcvii, 554-567. 

STIRLING, W. Fatigue and its effects on industry and efficiency. Medical Press 
and Circular, London, 1916, n.s., cii, 428. 

STOKES, CHAS. F. The military, industrial and public health features of narcotic 
addiction. Journal A. M. A., vol. Ixx, No. 11, p. 776. 

STONE, GILBERT. "Women War Workers." London, 1917. 

STRAUSS P. Le travail feminin dans les usines de guerre. Revue Philanthro- 
pique, Paris, 1917, xxxviii, 113-121. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 821 

STHOUD, R. Some statistics gathered from physical examination of employees. 

Southwestern Medicine, El Paso, 1918, ii, 23-26. 
Summary of findings and recommendations of the Ohio health and old-age insurance 

commission. Monthly Labor Review, Washington, 1919, viii, No 3 pp 

264-282. 

SYMONDS, C. P. Notes on a case of traumatic hernia of the diaphragm proving 

fatal seven hours after the wound. Journal of the Royal Medical Corps, 

London, 1917, xxxix, 349-353. 
Symposium on Reconstruction and Rehabilitation of Disabled Soldiers. Journal 

A. M. A., July, 1918. 
SYRUP, FRIEDRICH. Die Fursorge fur Kriegsverletzte gewerbliche Arbeiter 

Dusseldorf, 1916. 

TAFT, JESSIE. Mental pitfalls in industry: and how to avoid them. Medicine 

and Surgery, St. Louis, 1917, i, 679-685. 
TAUSSIG, FRANCES. Making dependents self-supporting. Modern Hospital, 

St. Louis, 1917, viii, 418-419. 
TEDESCHI, E. II pricolo tubercolare negli stabilimenti industriali. Igiene 

Moderna, Genova, 1918, xi, 126-130. 
THIBIERGE, G. Le "bouton D'huile" des tourneurs d'obus au point vue clinique 

et me'dico-le'gal. Bulletin de PAcade'mie de Medicine, Paris, 1918, Ixxix, 

208-211. 
THOMPSON, W. G. Industrial hygiene in war time. American Journal of Public 

Health, Concord, 1918, viii, 27-33. 

. Industrial hygiene in war time. Medical Insurance and Health Conser- 
vation, Dallas, 1918, xxvii, 223-227. 
. The menace of the dusty trades. American Journal of Public Health, 

Concord, 1917, vii, 737-741. 
. New poisons in war industries. New York Medical Journal, 1918, cvii, 

717. 

The relation of the hospital and dispensary to occupational diseases. 



American Journal of Public Health, Concord, N. H., 1916, vi, 982-986. 
THOMSON, ELNORA E. Occupation and its relation to mental hygiene. Modern 

Hospital, St. Luois, 1917, viii, 397. 
TOLMAN, W. H. Une usine module au point de vue de I'hygie'ne industrielle. 

Annales d'Hygie"ne, Paris, 1916, 4 s., xxv, 5-27. 
Transactions of American Association of Industrial Physicians and Surgeons, 

1916, 1917, 1918, Chicago. 

Transactions Industrial Hygiene Section, American Journal Public Health, 

Concord, 1916, 1917, 1918. 
Transactions Health Betterment Section, National Safety Council, Chicago, 1916, 

1917, 1918. 

Trask, John, W. Hospital and medical treatment of injured civil employees of the 

United States. Interstate Medical Journal, St. Louis, 1918, xxv 551-555. 

TUCK, D. H. The lighting of industrial establishments. Medical Officer, London, 

1918, xx, 29. 

. The lighting of industrial establishments; the need for supervision with a 

suggested system of maintenance rating for artificial light equipment. Public 

Health Reports, Washington, 1917, xxxii, 1761-1764. 
Turpin, M. C. Where welfare of employees is considered of great importance. 

Modern Hospital, St. Louis, 1917, vii, 300-303. 
Two new clinics for occupational diseases. Modern Hospital, St. Louis, 1917, viii, 

154. 



822 INDUSTRIAL MEDICINE AND SURGERY 

Underlying principles of workmen's compensation laws. Journal of American 
Medical Association, Chicago, 1917, Ixviii, 1822-1823. 

Union of South Africa. Miners' Phthisis Prevention Committee. General 
report. Pretoria, 1916. 

United States Department of Labor Statistics. Effect of the air hammer on the 
hands of stone-cutters. Washington, 1918. (Bulletin No. 236.) 

. Effect of workmen's compensation laws in diminishing the necessity 

of industrial employment of women and children. Washington, 1917. 

. Hours, fatigue and health in British munition factories, reprints of the 

memoranda of the British health of munition workers committee. Washing- 
ton, 1917. 

. Industrial experience of trade school girls in Massachusetts. Washing- 
ton, 1917. 

. Street railway employment in the United States. Washington, 1917. 

. Wages and hours of labor in the boot and shoe industry; 1907 to 1916. 



Washington, 1918. (Bulletin No. 232.) 

Welfare work in British munition factories. Washington, 1917. 



United States, 65th Congress. 2d Session. A bill to provide for the promotion of 
vocational rehabilitation of persons disabled in industry or otherwise and their 
return to civil employment. Washington, 1918. (H. R. 12880.) 

Van der Heijden, H. N. De arbeidersverzorging en het hospitaalwezen in de 

boven-landen van Benkoelen. Soerabaia, 1916. 
VAN SICKLE, F. L. Discussion of the two years' experience with the workmen's 

compensation law of Pennsylvania from the viewpoint of the Industrial 

physician and surgeon. Journal of Sociologic Medicine, Easton, 1918-19, 

xix, 208-219. 
. -Social insurance against accidents. (Workmens compensation laws.) 

Journal of Sociologie Medicine, Easton, 1916, xvii, 285-307. 
VARRIER-JONES, P. C. A rational scheme for the after-care of the consumptive 

working man. British Journal of Tuberculosis, London, 1917, xi, 21-23. 

. Tuberculosis and the working man. Cambridge, 1916. 

VERCO, J. C. An unusual case of occupation neurosis. Medical Journal of 

Australia, Sydney, 1917, ii, 50. 
VEST, W. E. The future of railway medicine and surgery. Southern Medical 

Journal, Birmingham, 1918, xi, 796-798. 
VICINI, G. A proposito del lavoro della donna. Cesalpino, Arrezzo, 1917, xiii, 

61-65. 
VIGNE, A. Del 'aptitude au travail des tuberculeaux sa valeur, son utilisation 

au cours de la crise economique actuelle. Paris Me'dical, 1917, xxi, 284-290. 
Vocational education and employment of the handicapped, with special reference 

to crippled soldiers. (A bibliography, Sept., 1917, Bureau of Statistics, U. S. 

Dept. of Labor. 

WALKER, ANNE KENDRICK. Looking beyond the door of welfare service in the 

department store. Modern Hospital, St. Louis, 1916, vii, 119-122. 
WALSH, JOSEPH J. Mine ventilation. Journal of the American Society of Heating 

and Ventilating Engineers, New York, 1917, xxiii, 499-503. 

. Mining and mine ventilation. London, 1917. 

WALSH, WILLIAM H. Welfare and efficiency achieved at the same time. Modern 

Hospital, St. Louis, 1916, vii, 115-118. 
WALTER, HENRIETTE ROSE. Munition workers in England and France. New 

York, 1917. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 823 

WARNSHTJIS, F. C. A discussion of fifteen hundred industrial injuries. Journal 

of the Michigan State Medical Society, Grand Rapids, 1917, xvi, 490-493. 
WARREN, B. S. Sickness insurance: its relation to public health and the common 

welfare. Washington, 1915. Reprinted from Public Health Reports No 

250, January 8, 1915. ' 

. Statistics of disability, a compilation of some of the data available in the 

United States. Public Health Report, Washington, 1916, xxxi, 989-999. 
WARREN, B. S. AND EDGAR SYDENSTRICKER. Health insurance: its relation to the 

public health. (Public Health Bulletin, No. 78.) 
. Morbidity statistics of war industries needed. Public Health Reports 

Washington, 1918, xxxiii, 127-132. 
WATKINS, J. A. Mitigation of the heat hazard in industries. Public Health 

Reports, Washington, 1917, xxxii, 2111-2121. 
WATT, J. H. and others. Miners' phthisis: recent investigations. II. Changes 

produced in the silicotic lung by infective processes; tuberculo-silicotic 

changes. Medical Journal of South Africa, Hohannesburg, 1916, xii, 15-22. 
WATTERS, L. L. Emergency hospitals for industrial plants. Modern Hospital, 

St. Louis, 1917, viii, 107-111. 
WEBB, BEATRICE. Health of working girls. A handbook for welfare supervisors 

and others. London, 1917. 
WEGMANN, H. Zur Pneumonokoniose der Metallschleifer. Correspondenz- 

Blatt fur Schweizer Aerzte, Basel, 1917, xlvii, 526-528. 
WEISMAN, CHARLES. Studies in vocational diseases. The effect of gas-heated 

appliances upon the air of work-shops. Washington, 1917. (Public Health 

Bulletin No. 81.) 
Welfare work. Stories from various industries. Modern Hospital, St. Louis, 

1916, vii, 133-166. 

WEST, F. C. The medical department of a modern industrial plant. Boston 
Medical and Surgical Journal, 1916, clxxv, 914-915. 

WEST, F. O. The manufacture of picric acid from the medical standpoint. Jour- 
nal of Industrial and Engineering Chemistry, Easton, 1917, ix, 303-305. 

WHELLER, R. M. The necessity of preliminary and periodic physical examination 
of R. R. employees as a means to greater efficiency. Railway Surgical Journal, 
Chicago, 1916-17, xxiii, 203-210. 

WHEELOCK, W. A discussion of lead poisoning on examination in thirty-two 
industrial plants, complying with the occupational diseases law, in the state of 
Illinois. Chicago Medical Recorder, 1917, xxxix, 303-310; 370-376. 

WHITE, J. P. Compulsory physical examination. In: Proceedings of the 
Conference of Social Insurance, 1916, Washington, 1917, p. 314-316, 335-347. 

WHITE, W. H. Physical examination and medical supervision of employees. 
In: Proceeding of the Conference of Socjal Insurance, 1916, Washington, 

1917, p. 327-347. 

WILBERT, M. I. Occupational intoxications. Public Health Reports, Washington, 
1916, xxxi, 763. 

Wisconsin, permanent partial disabilities. Bulletin of Industrial Commission, 1917. 

WILLIAMS, A. Industry and the health of the employee. Journal of the National 
Dental Association, Huntington, 1918, v, 951-955. 

WILLIAMS, T. A. The traumatic neurosis; nature and management; some forensic 
aspects shown in the case of Hill vs. Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul 
R. R. Co. Journal of the American Institute of Criminal Law and Crimi- 
nology, Chicago, 1917, vii, 689-701. 

WILLIAMS, WHITING. Factory, family and firing line. Cleveland Topics, May 26, 
1917. 



824 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 



WILLIAMS, WHITING. Human relations in industry. National Safety Council,. 
Chicago, 1917. 

WILSON, H. M. Inspection and schedule rating of coal mines as a means of pre- 
venting mine accidents. In: Proceedings of the Conference of Social Insur- 
ance, 1916, Washington, 1917, p. 273-291. 

WINSLOW, C. E. A. The effect of atmospheric conditions upon fatigue and effi- 
ciency. American Journal of Public Health, Concord, 1917, 827-834. 

Wittgen, Beitrag zu den Gesundheitsverhaltnissen der Arbeiterinnen in Lumpen- 
sortieranstalten. Zentralblatt fur Gewerbehygiene, Berlin, 1915, iii, 245-251. 

WOOD, G. H. Arrangement of treatments in industrial work. Hospital Manage- 
ment, vol. v, No. 5. 

Women in Industry Service, U. S. Dept. of Labor, Standards governing the 
employment of women, 1918-1919. 

WOODBURY, R. M. Social insurance an economic analysis, New York, 1917. 

WRIGHT, A. H. Work, fatigue and rest. Canadian Practioner and Review, 
Toronto, 1917, xlii, 231-236. 

WRIGHT, W. The hospital and industrial hygiene. American Journal of Public 
Health, Concord, 1917, vii, 949-952. 

WTTRTZ. Sur la suppression du chiffonnage a Paris. Bulletin de I'Acade'mie de 
Medicine, Paris, 1916, 3 s., Ixxx, 429-434. 492-503. 

YAPLE, W. D. Commission supervision of industrial hygiene. American Journal 

of Public Health, New York, 1916, vi, 369-373. 
YOUNG, A. H. Practical aspects of the safety movement. Industrial Mangement, 

New York, 1917, liv, 30-35. 



INDEX 



ABDUCTION and adduction of wrist, 558 

wrist', in action, 559 
Abrasions and blisters on feet, treat- 
ment of, 661 
Accident carriers, 328 
prevention man, 486 
rate, influence on, of new employees 

and speeding-up, 351 
report record, 121, 122, 123 
surgery, sources of, 484 
Accidents, coincidence of, with disease, 

707 
due to physical or mental condition of 

employee, 328 
in elevator shafts, 321 
in home, 338 

treatment of, 22 
industrial, division of, 319 
prevention of, 318, 319, 486 
and recurrences, 25 
depends upon inspection and edu- 
cation, 339 
due to disaster, 331 

to physical or mental condition 

in employee, 328 

employees' co-operation in, 134, 341 
in cerebrospinal syphilis, 330 
in epilepsy, 329 
in fire, 331 
in heart disease, 330 
in plant, 138 

inspectors of safety methods in, 341 
major, 320 
minor, 331 
physical examination of employees 

for, 328, 329 

safety appliances attached to em- 
ployee, 326 
on machinery, 324 

Acetylene gas installations, health haz- 
ard regulations for, 247 
Acid, carbolic, as disinfectant, 161 
Activities of employees' service depart- 
ment, 19 

of industry, prevention in relation to, 
139 



Adduction and abduction of wrist, 55$ 

Adequate ventilation, 155 

Adjuncts to health supervision, services- 

of, 19 

Ague, zinc, 218 
Aid, first. See First aid. 
Air, bad, 151, 152 
functions of, 152 

factors dependent on, 153 
motion, 155 

purity of, and cleanliness of work- 
rooms in prevention of industrial 
poisoning, 236 

Alcoholism, predisposing factor to tu- 
berculosis, 433 

Aluminum sulphate and formalin-lime 
method of evolving formaldehyd gas,. 
158 
Americanization of foreign employee, 

769 

Ammonia, aromatic spirits of, use of, 500" 
production of, health hazard regula- 
tions for, 247 

Amputated cases exercising stump, 563 
teaching to use artificial legs, 656 
Amputations, 639 
adhesive plaster method in, 642 
artificial limbs to accustom patients- 

to use of stumps in, 654 
finger, 641 
of lower extremity, 647 

care of stump after, 650-652 
important points in operation in r 

650 

preferable sites of, 648, 649 
of upper extremity, 643 

preferable sites of, 644-646 
traction to skin to prevent re- 
traction in, 643, 644 
testing of joint motions after, 653 
Ankle, eversion and inversion of, 561 
Anti-accident propaganda, 339 
Antiseptics used in emergency surgery, 

515 

Antitoxin, tetanus, in emergency surg- 
ery, 522, 523 



825 



826 



INDEX 



Apoplexy, accident prevention in, 329 

traumatic, medicolegal aspects of, 736 
Appendicitis, traumatic, medicolegal 

aspects of, 736 
Applicants for work, information record 

of, 117 
medical examination of, 22, 27, 86, 

87, 134, 359, 370 
do they object to examina- 
tions, 381 

fitting disabled to jobs, 382 
percentage of rejects, 384 
reasons for examination, 372 
rejection standards, 377 
should diseased conditions be 

explained, 380 

what becomes of rejects, 383 
when to examine, 371 
Army, industrial, health of, plan for 

supervision of, 465 
problem of tuberculosis in, 467 
Aromatic spirits of ammonia, use of, 500 
Arsenic, health hazards in use of, regu- 
lations for, 271 
pock, 219 
poisoning, 219 

in American trades, 220 
in English trades, 219 
Arseniuretted hydrogen, health hazard 

regulations in, 271 
Artificial arm, temporary, 654 

breathing. Schafer method for, 249 
legs, temporary, 653 
manures, manufacture of, health haz- 
ard regulations for, 242 
Assistants, lay, number needed by 

medical staff, 93 

Associations, benefit, employees', 760. 
See also Employees' benefit associations. 
Athletics, 28 

contests in, 105, 107 
fields for, 105 
outdoor, 107 

Author's first aid kit, 498 
Automobile concern, medical attention 
in, 47 

BACTERIOLOGICAL examinations, plan 
used in large industry, 73 

Bad air, 151, 152 

Balkan frame for suspension traction 
method of treating compound 
fracture of humerus, 609 



Balkan frame for traction and sus- 
pension in leg fractures, 617, 618 
Bandages, surgical, 481 
Banking and loan service of employees, 

31 
Bath tubs in connection with medical 

department, 42 
Bed, stretcher, use of in army hospital, 

600 
table suitable for games or bed-side 

occupations, 555 

Benefit associations, employees,' 760. 
See also Employees' benefit associa- 
tions. 

Benefits and profits of medical depart- 
ment, 79 
and work of human maintenance 

department, 81, 82 

Benzin in industry, health hazard regu- 
lations for, 244 

Bichlorid of mercury, as disinfectant, 161 
Bleaching powder, chlorin and its com- 
pounds, health hazard regulations for, 
238 

Blind soldiers, re-education of, 784 
Blisters and abrasions on feet, treat- 
ment of, 661 

Blood analyses, plan used in large in- 
dustry, 73 
transfusion in shock in emergency 

surgery, 527, 530 

Bone cysts, in open treatment of frac- 
tures, 634 
repair of, by autogenous graft, 635, 

636 

grafts, autogenous, facts in repair of 
fractures or bony defects by, 
636 
in open treatment of fractures, 

631-633 

value of, in repairing bony de- 
fects, 633 
Boot and shoe industry, dust hazards in, 

208 

Braces and supports, quackery in, 397 
Brass casting, health hazard regulations 

in, 269 

founders' ague, 218 
Brazier's disease, 218 
Bulb, wet and dry, for plant tempera- 
ture, 153 

Bunions, treatment of, 662 
Burns, paraffin treatment of, 537-540 



INDEX 



827 



CAFETERIA, dining room, commissary 
and locker room, floor plan of, 114 
for employees, 113 
Calcium oxid as disinfectant, 161 
Caliber of physicians employed, 90 
Callosities, treatment of, 661 
Cape used to cover girls during physical 

examination, 417 
Carbolic acid as antiseptic, 515 

as disinfectant, 161 
salve, danger in use of, 539 
Carbon bisulphid in industry, health 

hazard regulations for, 245 
Carpal bones, fractures of, 614 
Carrel-Dakin method in treatment of 

infected compound fractures, 627 
solution, preventive measure in acci- 
dents, 333 
Cathartic habit among employees, 425, 

426 

Ceramic industries, health hazard regu- 
lations in, 267 

Cerebrospinal syphilis, accident pre- 
vention in, 330 

Chemical industries, health hazard regu- 
lations in, 237 
acetylene gas installations, 

247 

ammonia production, 247 
bleaching powder, chlorin 

and its compounds, 238 
carbon bisulphid, 245 
chromium compounds, 244 
coal tar colors and organic 

dye-stuffs, 249 
fertilizers and artificial man- 
ures, 242 

hydrochloric acid, salt cake, 

and soda industries, 237 

nitric acid and explosives, 

238 

petroleum and benzin, 244 
phosphorus, 245 
power gas works, 245 
sulphuric acid industry, 237 
tar, coke and gas produc- 
tion, 245 
products from distillation, 

248 
trinitrotoluene in munition 

work, 238 

Chicago Industrial Nurses Club, 59 
Chief surgeon, 44 



Children of employees, free dental serv- 
ice for, 63 

Chlorin and its compounds, and bleach- 
ing powder industries, health hazard 
regulations for, 238 

Chlorinated lime as disinfectant, 161 

Chromium compounds in industry, 
health hazard regulations for, 244 

Cigar and cigarette manufacture, health 
hazards in, 209, 210 

City health department and plant 
medical department, co-operation be- 
tween, 113 

Clap, 198 

Clavicle, fractures of, 606 

modification of Sayre dressing for, 
607 

Cleanliness of workroom and purity of 
air in prevention of industrial poison- 
ing, 236 

Cleansing of wounds in emergency 
surgery, 520 

Clerical and filing room in doctor's 
office, 39 

Clothes hooks for employees, 163 

Clothing of women in industry, 421 

Coal tar colors and organic dye-stuffs, 
production of, health hazard regula- 
tions for, 249 

Coke, tar and gas, production of, health 
hazard regulations for, 245 

Cold and hot water for employees, 163, 
164 

Colds, 178, 423 

contagiousness of, 179 

educational propaganda on infectious 

nature of, 423 

instructions for employees in treat- 
ment of, 424 

Coincidence of accidents with disease, 
707 

Colic, in lead poisoning, 215 

Colics' fracture, 614 

Collodium, danger in use of, 534 

Combating shock, 500 

Commissary, cafeteria, dining and 
locker rooms, floor plan of, 114 

Committee on Factories, report of, 
36 

Community and housing service of 
employees, 32 

Compensable hernia, 690. See also 
Hernia, compensable. 



828 



INDEX 



Compensation acts, 673 

accident, American variations of, 

674 

British definition in, 674 
causes of, 675 
definition in, 673 
proof of, 675 

aggravation of injury, 677 
broadening of liability of British 

Act, 675 

disfigurement, provision for, 678 
duties of industrial surgeon^ in rela- 
tion to, 682 

elimination of 'out of,' 676 
exclusion of disease by some states, 

675 

extension of coverage by Massa- 
chusetts, 675 
in relation to returned disabled 

soldier, 685-689 
occupational disease as accident, 

678 
pre-existing disease or injury, 677, 

707 

proximate causes of injury, 676 
refusal of medical instruction or 

recommendations, 677 
separation of accident and disease 

in British, 674 

special liability suggested by Con- 
necticut commission, 676 
subject of hernia, 678 
and insurance, 272 
and litigation, unjust, reduction of, 

by' medical department, 85, 86 
employees', from medical viewpoint, 

667 

Compound solution of cresol as disin- 
fectant, 160 

Conditions, directly the result of occu- 
pations, treatment of, 22 
Confidence of employees necessary to 

success of medical department, 80 
Constipation, 423, 425 

cathartic habit in, 425, 426 
prescription for fruit mixture for, 426 
Constrictor, use of, in hemorrhage, 500 
Contagious diseases in industry, 178 
Contests, athletic, 105, 107 
Convalescents, gymnastics and games 

for, 564 

Co-operation of employees necessary 
in preventive measures, 134, 341 



Corns, treatment of, 660 

Cost of health supervision in industry, 

94, 96 
of medical and surgical supervision 

of employees, 84 

department. See Medical depart- 
ment, cost of. 

Cresols, as disinfectants, 160, 161 
Cripples, employment of, 375-377 
Crushes of terminal phalanx, 616 
Cuspidors, infectious nature of contents 

of, 126 
proper disinfection of, 162 



DAILY routine of industrial nurse, 53 
Dakin's solution as antiseptic, 515 
Darkness breeder of accidents, 321 
Death, impending, in emergency surg- 
ery, 523 

Defective vision, care of, 23, 386 
Deformity, prevention of, in emergency 

surgery, 523 
Delbet arm extension, apparatus 'for 

fractures, 610 

forms for fractures, 624, 625 
Dental clinic at Metropolitan Life In- 
surance Company, 63 
hygiene, lectures and individual in- 
struction to employees on, 63 
office, an essential adjunct to indus- 
trial dispensary, 65 
of medical department, 42 
service for employees, 60 

economic value of, 60, 66 
equipment of offices, 63 
free for children of, 63 
loan system for, 66 
systems in use in different in- 
dustries, 62 
Dentists employed on part or full time, 

62, 65 
Department store, medical attention in, 

45 

Dichloramin-T as antiseptic, 515 
Dining room, cafeteria, commissary and 

locker room, floor plan of, 114 
employees', 28 
Diphtheria, 192 

Disabled member, functional re-educa- 
tion of, 554 

reclamation of, 776. See also Re- 
clamation of disabled. 



INDEX 



829 



Disaster, accidents due to, prevention 

of, 331 

Diseased tonsils, 489 
Diseases, accidents coincident with, 707 
contagious, in industry, 178 
minor, common to women employees, 

422 
occupational, prevention of, and 

vocational hygiene, 222 
prevention of, employees' co-opera- 
tion in, 134, 341 
venereal, 196 
Disinfectants, gaseous, 157 

liquid, 160 
Disinfection, 156 
natural means of, 156 
of cuspidors, 162 
supervision of, by plant physician, 

156 
Dispensary, industrial, 33 

floor plan of, 78 
surgical, 475 

Division of Physical Reconstruction and 
Rehabilitation of Disabled Soldiers, 
work of, 467 
Doctor's office, 33, 68 

minimum requirements of, 36 
Drainage material for wounds, 521 

of wounds in emergency surgery, 521 
Dressing rooms and lockers, employees', 

164 
in connection with examining room, 

38 

solution formulas, 627, 628 
Dressings for emergency surgery, 536 
small, use of, 499 
sterile, importance of, 483 
surgical, 481 

schedule for, 485 
Drinking and toilet facilities for women 

employees, 422 
fountains, 162 
Drop, foot, exercise for, 561 
Drying oils and varnish industries, 

health hazard regulations for, 272 
Dust, amounts inhaled in ten hours in 
dusty industries, table showing, 
202 

as health hazard, 202 
character of, injurious effects of, 206 
classification of, 203 
containing silica most dangerous, 204 
from grain industries, 209 



Dust from manufacture of dyes, 208 

preventive measures against 

poisoning from, 208 
from production of textiles, 207 
from rag sorting and shredding, 209 
from rattan splitting and sorting, 209 
from tobacco industries, 209 
from wood working industries, 209 
in boot and shoe industry, 208 
inhalation of, pathological effects of, 

204, 432 
metallic, 206 

mortality from occupations in, 437 
mineral, 206 
vegetable, from textile production, 

207 
Dusting powders in emergency surgery, 

537 
Dusty occupations, mortality in, 437 

trades, chief, 205 
Dyes, dust hazards in manufacture of, 

208 

Dye-stuffs, organic, and coal tar colors, 
production of, health hazard regula- 
tions for, 249 
Dysmenorrhea, 423 
causes of, 426 

rectal and vaginal examinations in, 
427 

EATING place for employees, provision 

of, 111 
Economic value of employees' dental 

service, 60, 66 
Education and inspection in accident 

prevention, 339, 340 
Elbow-joint, fractures about, 612 
Electrical concern, medical attention in, 

46 

Electrotherapy, 551 
Elevator shafts, accidents in, 321 
Emergency surgery, 511. See also 

Surgery, emergency. 
Employees and then- families, medical 

and surgical care for, 49 
benefit associations, 760 

benefits and average cost to em- 
ployees, 762 

employer's contribution, 762 
forms of benefits, 763 
free medical care, 764 
how should membership be ob- 
tained, 761 



830 



INDEX 



Employees' benefit associations, human 

side of, 764 

in preventive work, 765 
three different forms of organiza- 
tion, 760 
voluntary membership should be 

followed, 761 
cafeteria for, 113 

compensation from medical view- 
point, 667 
.confidence of, necessary to success of 

medical department, 80 
co-operation of, in prevention of acci- 
dent and disease, 134, 341 
dental service, 60 

economic value of, 60, 66 
equipment of offices, 63 
loan system for, 66 
systems in use in different indus- 
tries, 62 
dining room, 28 

eating place for, provision of, 110, 111 
educated in food hygiene, 110 
epidemics among, prevention of, 178 
female, examination of, 38. See also 
Medical and physical examination 
of employees. 

food in relation to health of, 109 
foot, 657 

examination of, 659 
faulty shoes of, 657 
sweaty, treatment of, 661 
treatment of blisters and abrasions 

on, 661 

of callosities, 661 
of corns, 660 
of fissures, 661 
of flat-foot, 663 
of foot strain, 663 
of hallux valgus, 662 
of hammer-toe, 663 
of ingrowing nails, 662 
of specific conditions in, 660 
foreign, americanization of, 769 
health supervision of, 17 

recreation and exercise related 

to, 102 

home conditions, prevention in, 137 
in plant restaurant, medical examina- 
tion of, 111 
medical examination of, 20, 355 

attitude of employee toward, 368 
classes divided into, 357 



Employees, medical examination of, 

female, 38, 416, 427 
of new employees, 22, 27, 86, 87, 

134, 359, 370 

of present working force, 358 
problem of physically unfit, 367 
reasons in favor of, 357 
re-examination in, 359, 360 
routine procedure for, 362 
statistics of examinations, 363 
steps of examinations, 362 
treatment of, 391 
complete, 401 
supervision of, 391 
types of cases causing time loss, 

402 

what cases should be treated, 399 
new, influence of, and speeding-up, on 

accident rate, 351 
instruction in accident prevention, 

351, 353 
medical examination of, 22, 27, 86, 

87, 134, 359, 370 
number in plant, 94 
of plant restaurant, medical examina- 
tion of, 111 
physical examination of, 20, 355 

before entering physical exer- 
cises, 107 
for prevention of accidents, 328, 

329 
or mental condition of, cause of 

accidents, 328 
prevention among, 134 

applicants for work, 134 

old employees, 134 

physical examination of old and 

new, 134 

preventive measures rendered, 136 
recreation for, 102 

room for, 104 
service department, 17 
activities of, 19 
banking and loan service, 31 
employment service, 26 
housing and community service, 

32 

insurance service, 31 
medical director, head of, 18, 19 
service, 20 

physical examination, 20 
treatment in, 22 
nursing service, 24 



INDEX 



831 



Employees' service department, recrea- 
tional service, 28 
restaurant service, 27 
safety service, 25 
sanitation service, 26 
surgical service, 24 
welfare service, 30 
should leave work rooms at lunch 

hour, 110, 111 

tuberculosis among, predisposing fac- 
tors to, 432 
prevention of, 442 
tuberculous, 429 
at work, 456 
care of, 23 
decrease of, among old employees 

by medical examination, 368 
examination for discovery of, 128 
model garment factory for, 457, 458 
nurse for, 58 
treatment of, 444 
at home, 449 

by certain organizations, 446 
by Ford Motor Company, 454 
by Jewish Tuberculous Associa- 
tion of New York City, 456 
detection of disease in early 

stage, 445 
free, 449 
industrial convalescence in, 458, 

460 
periodical medical examinations 

for, 445 

sanatoria for, 444, 451 
Employment of physically unfit, 86, 87 

service of employees, 26 
Epidemics among employees, preven- 
tion of, 178 
Epidemiology in industry, 178. See 

also Industrial epidemiology. 
Epilepsy, accident prevention in, 329 
Estimate of financial returns due to 

medical department, 79 
Erersion and inversion of ankle, 561 
Examination and correction of eye con- 
ditions, 386 
plan for, 386 

test for acuity of vision, -387 
bacteriologic, 73 
blood, 73 
fecal, 74 

of female help, 38, 416, 427 
of sputum, 73 



Examination of teeth, part of physical 

examination, 60 
physical, of applicants for work, 22, 

27, 86, 87, 134, 359, 370 
of employees, 20 

before entrance into physical 

exercises, 107 
for prevention of accidents, 328, 

329 

purpose, 21 

Examining room of medical depart- 
ment, 38 

Exanthemata, acute, 194 
Exercise and recreation as related to 
supervision of health of em- 
ployee, 102 

for managerial staff, 100 
for foot drop, 561 
physical, conducted during working 

hours, 105 
examination of employee before 

entering into, 107 
Explosives, manufacture of, health 

hazard regulations for, 238 
Extremity, lower, amputations of, 647. 
See also Amputations of lower 
extremities. 

fractures of, 616. See also Frac- 
tures of lower extremity. 
upper, amputations of, 643. See also 
Amputations of upper extremities. 
fractures of, 606. See also Frac- 
tures of upper extremity. 
Eye conditions, examination and cor- 
rection of, 386 
plan for, 386 
test for acuity of vision, 

387 
ear, nose and throat work, room for 

in medical department, 42 
Eyesight, defective, accident prevention 
in, 330 

FAINTING, treatment of, in emergency 

surgery, 534 

Faucets for washing facilities, 163 
Fecal examinations, plan used in large 

industry, 74 
Federal legislation and administration 

in prevention of occupational disease, 

223 
Feeding of employees, 110, 111. See 

also Plant restaurant. 



832 



INDEX 



Female help, examination of, 38, 416, 

427 
Femur, fractures of, 616 

application of plaster case for, 622, 

623 

Hodgen splint in, 618, 619 
middle of, treatment, 621 
Ferrosilicon, transport of, health haz- 
ards in, preventive measures in, 250 
Fertilizers, manufacture of, health haz- 
ard regulations for, 242 
Field meet, 29 

Financial returns due to medical depart- 
ment, estimate of, 79 
waste due to employment of physic- 
ally unfit, 87 
Finger amputations, 641 
Fingers and thumbs, fractures of, 614 
pulley weight for exercising, in flexion 

and extension, 562 
Fire, accident prevention in, 331 

prevention in plant, 139 
First aid, 487, 492 
in gassing, 249 
kit, 498 

box for, 497 

contents of, 496, 497, 499 
directions for, 499 
methods, to be used by employees, 

500 

outfit of N. A. S. O., 507 
rules, 496 
station in Colorado Fuel and Iron 

Co., 493 

in Ford automobile factory, 494 
in large plants, 25 
system in Bethlehem Steel Co., 505 
three systems, 493 
work for mine employees, 508 
Fissures of skin of feet, treatment of, 

661 
Flannel band for traction in fractures, 

611, 612 

Flat-foot, treatment of, 663 
Floor plan of industrial dispensary, 78 
Food, 109 

for women employees, 422 
hygiene talks to employees, 110 
in plant restaurant, inspection of, by 

medical staff, 112 
proper, for employees, 28 
relation of, to health of employee, 
109 



Foot drop, exercise for, 561 
employee's, 657. See also/ Employ- 
ee's foot. 

fractures of, 606 
strain, treatment of, 663 
Forearms, fractures of, 604, 613 
Foreign bodies in wound, removal of in 

emergency surgery, 520 
employee, americanization of, 769 
Formaldehyd, as disinfectant, 157 

gas, methods of evolving, 158 
Formalin, 160 

Formalin-lime and aluminum sulphate 
method of evolving formaldehyd gas, 
158 
Fracture bed used in Colorado Fuel and 

Iron Co. Hospital, 621 
Fractures, 598 

about elbow-joint, 612 

Balkan frame for leg suspension and 

traction in, 617, 618 
Colics', 614 

compound infected, treatment by 
Carrel-Dakin irrigation method, 
626, 627 

treatment of, 625 
Delbet arm extension apparatus for, 

610 
dressing solutions for, formulas, 627, 

628 

early use of motion in, 601 
economic treatment of, 598 
emergency treatment of, 602 
high, of femur, Jones abduction frame 

for, 617 
immobilization and transportation of, 

599 

in emergency surgery, 535 
Jones' arm extension splint for, 611 
methods of applying traction to 

humerus, 611 

occupations for patients in, 601 
of carpal bones, 614 
of clavicle, 606 
modification of Sayre dressing for, 

607 
of femur, 616 

application of plaster case for, 622, 

623 

Hodgen splint in, 618, 619 
middle of, treatment, 621 
of fingers and thumbs, 614 
of foot, 606 



INDEX 



833 



Fractures of forearm, 604, 613 
of humerus, Balkan frame for, 609 
neck of, treatment, 607 
triangle wood splint for, 609, 610 
of leg, 606, 616, 623 

Delbet forms for, 624, 625 
of metacarpal bones, 614 
of ribs, 604 
of thigh, 604 
of upper extremity, 606 
open treatment of, 629 
bad results of, 630 
facts to be emphasized in use of 

autogenous graft, 636 
indications for, 631, 632 
living bone grafts for, advantages 

of, 631-33 

permanent treatment, 606 
prevention of, 598 
severe, Thomas' arm extension splint 

for, 608 
supplies for emergency treatment of, 

603 
suspension method in, advantages of, 

620 

x-ray in treatment of, 598 
Free dental service for children of em- 
ployees, 63 
Freezing, treatment of, in emergency 

surgery, 530 
Frost-bites, treatment of, in emergency 

surgery, 530 

Fruit mixture for constipation, prescrip- 
tion for, 426 
Functional re-education of disabled 

member, 554 
Functions of air, 152 

factors dependent on, 153 

GALVANIZING, health hazard regulations 

in, 269 

Games and gymnastics for convales- 
cents, 564 
Gas, acetylene, installations, health 

hazard regulations for, 247 
coke and tar, production of, health 

hazard regulations for, 245 
formaldehyd, methods of evolving, 

158 

Gaseous disinfectants, 157 
Gassing, 249 

artificial breathing for, 249 
first aid in, 249 
63. 



Gassing, symptoms, 249 
use of oxygen cylinder, 249 

General office of medical department, 38 

Glue, resin and turpentine, for fracture 
traction bands, 612 

Goggles, as means of prevention in 
emery grinding, 326 

Gold and silver extraction, health haz- 
ard regulations for, see Mercury. 

Gonorrhea, 198 
cases, care of, 23 

Grain industries, health hazards in, 
209 

Grippe, 425 

Growth of industrial health service, 
resume" of, 125 

Gymnasium for managerial staff, 100 

Gymnastics and games for convales- 
cents, 564 

HALLUX valgus, treatment of, 662 
Hammer-toe, treatment of, 663 
Hand exercise, 562 
infections, 574. See also Infections, 

hand. 

Hazards, health, in occupations, 201. 
See also Health hazards in occupations. 
Headaches and causes of, 422 
Health boards and commissioners, mun- 
icipal, 232 

hazards in occupations, 201 
arsenic poisoning, 219 
compensation and insurance in, 

272 

from dust, 202 
from gases and fumes, 210 
from industrial poisons, 210 
from intoxications, 210 
industries in which poisoning 

may occur, 294-309 
lead poisoning, 213 
legislation covering, in various 

states, 229 
licensing in, 232 
mercury poisoning, 220 
phosphorous poisoning, 221 
preventive measures in smelting 
and metal handling trades, 250 
special preventive measures for 

workers, 232 

regulations for chemical in- 
dustries, 237 
zinc poisoning, 218 



834 



INDEX 



Health hygiene, industrial, home con- 
ditions of employees in, 150 
insurance, 740 

eight states making investigations, 

745 
endorsed by official commissions, 

744 

for sick employees, 31 
group insurance, 750 
medical profession deeply inter- 
ested in, 748 

principles of standard bill, 743 
rapidly increasing public demand 

for, 746 

selfish opposition by private in- 
surance companies, 749 
war conditions emphasize need of, 

749 
service, industrial, re'sume' of growth 

of, 125 

supervision in industry, cost of, 94, 96 
of employees, 17 

adjuncts to, banking and loan 

service, 31 

employment service, 26 
housing and community ser- 
vice, 32 

insurance service, 31 
recreational service, 28 
restaurant service, 27 
services of, 19 
welfare service, 30 
food in relation to, 109 
medical service in, 20 
nursing service in, 24 
purposes of, 20 
recreation and exercise related 

to, 102 

safety service in, 25 
sanitation service in, 26 
services of, 19 
surgical service in, 24 
of managerial staff of industry, 98 
Heart disease, accident prevention in, 330 
Heat exhaustion, treatment in emer- 
gency surgery, 531 
Hemorrhage and shock, in emergency 

surgery, 525, 528 
checking, 500 
pads, use of, 499 
prevention of, in emergency surgery, 

523 
symptoms in, 527 



Hernia, compensable, 690 

accidental or sudden hernia, 696 
due to natural causes, 698 
due to unnatural causes, 700 
questions of traumatic hernia in, 

692 

true traumatic hernia, 694 
non-compensable, 704 
quacks, 397 
Hip, rotation of, 560 
History room of medical department, 39 
Hodgen splint in fractures of femur, 618, 

619 
Home, accidents in, 338 

conditions of employee, prevention 

in, 137 

Hospital, plant, 33 
Hot and cold water, for employees, 163, 

164 

Housing and community service of em- 
ployees, 32 
Human conservation and reclamation 

of disabled, 776 
maintenance department, scope of 

work and benefits of, 81, 82 
Humerus, fractures of, Balkan frame 

for, 609 

neck of, treatment, 607 
triangle wood splint for, 609, 610 
Humidity, 153 

Hydrochloric acid, salt cake and soda 
industries, health hazard regulations 
for, 237 

Hydrogen peroxid as antiseptic, 515 
Hydrotherapy, 551 
Hygiene, dental, lectures and individual 

instruction to employees on, 63 
health, industrial, home conditions of 

employees in, 150 
industrial, 125 

and production, 167 

business methods revolutionized, 

168 

commandeering law, 173 
Committee on Industrial Medi- 
cine and Surgery, report of. 
174 
division of Sanitation and Safety, 

176 

effect of war speed-up, 171 
efficiency before war, 170 
employer and laborer relation- 
ships, 169 






INDEX 



835 



Hygiene, industrial, and production, 
Federal Housing Commission, 
173 

government control of produc- 
tion, 168 
improved railway employees' 

conditions, 177 
reorganization of department of 

labor, 172 

supervision and control by Secre- 
tary of Treasury, 173 
U. S. Employees Compensation 

Commission, 176 
work of Shipbuilding Board, 176 
course in medical schools, 125, 

130 

general outline of problems, 141 
in shipbuilding yards 132 
prevention in, 137 
problems of, 141 

community conditions, 150 
co-operation between municipal 
health department and plant 
medical staff, 149 
disinfection, 156 
doctor's office and first aid sta- 
tions, 148 

drinking facilities, 148, 162 
dusts, 145, 203, 432 
duty of plant physician in regard 

to, 141 

eating facilities, 147 
excessive noises, 145 
fumes and gases, 144 
health conditions of community, 

149 

hazards present, 142 
hours of work, 142 
humidity, 144 
illumination, 145 
lockers and dressing rooms, 147, 

164 

medical care of employees, 149 
nature and construction of build- 
ings, 143 

of industry, 141, 142 
physical condition of employees, 

148 
of plant and surroundings, 

143 
examinations of employees, 

148 

protection against spitting and 
refuse, 145 



Hygiene, industrial, problems of, pro- 
visions for contagious cases, 
149 

recreational facilities, 148 
rest rooms, 148 
specific, 151 

surroundings of plant, 144 
temperature, 144 
toilet facilities, 147, 164 
vacations and recreation, 149 
ventilation, 144, 151 
wages, 143 

washing facilities, 147, 163 
personal, in handling of poisonous 

materials, 234 

vocational, and prevention of occu- 
pational diseases, 222 
Hygrodeik, Taylor, 153 
Hypochlorite disinfection of drinking 
water, 162 

ILLUMINATED signs in spirit of preven- 
tion education, 343 
Immobilization of fractures and sprains 

in emergency surgery, 535 
Increase in number of employees com- 
ing to doctor, 80, 83 
Individual instruction and lectures to 

employees on dental hygiene, 63 
Industrial accidents, division of, 319 
army, health of, plan for supervision 

of, 465 
dispensary, 33 

floor plan of, 78 
epidemiology, 178 

early isolation and treatment, 191 
education and individual preven- 
tion, 192 

epidemic of 1915-16, complica- 
tions in, 186 
course of disease in, 186 
etiology of, 181 
pneumonia in, 186 
symptoms, 184 
treatment, 187 
active, 189 
preventive, 188 
resulCs, 189 

in acute exanthemata, 194 
in colds, 178 
in diphtheria, 192 
in influenza, 180 
in lumbago, 179 
in pneumonia, 180 



836 



INDEX 



Industrial epidemiology in small-pox, 
195 

in tonsillitis, 180 

in torticollis, 179 

in typhoid fever, 195 

in venereal diseases, 196 

reinforcing sanitation methods in, 
192 

searching out cases, 191 
health service of employees, 17 

re"sum6 of growth of, 125 
hygiene. See H*ygiene, industrial. 
medical office serving several indus- 
tries, 48 
medicine, 355 

and surgery, practical system of, 
detailed outline of, in large in- 
dustry, 67 
nurse, conserves physicians' time, 57 

daily routine of, 53 

at plant and in homes, 54 

for tuberculous cases, 58 

number employed in plant, 93 

qualifications of, 51, 58 

report of request to call, 124 

responsibilities of, 52 

Nurses' Club of Chicago, 59 
nursing, 51 
plant, accident prevention in, 138 

fire prevention in, 139 

prevention in relation to physical 

conditions of, 137 
poisons, arsenic, 219 

classification, 211 

definition, 210 

important r61e in, 211 

laws requiring reporting of cases of, 
212 

lead, 213 

list of, 274-293 

mercury, 220 

phosphorous, 221 

zinc, 218 

sanitation, 125. See also Sanitation. 
surgeon's place in americanization 

of foreign employee, 769 
surgery, 475. See also Surgery, in- 
dustrial. 
Industries, activities of, prevention as 

related to, 139 
in which poisoning may occur, 294- 

309 
nurse in, 51 



Industries, prevalence of tuberculosis 

in, 431 
preventive medicine and surgery in, 

133 

respiratory infections in, 178 
women in, 405. See also Women in 

industry. 

Inefficiency among employees, 30 
Infections following injuries, reduction 

of, by medical department, 85 
from minor accidents, prevention of, 

332 
hand, 574 

active treatment, 581 
early hospital treatment for, 584 
economic value of diagnosis of 
location of pus and surgical in- 
terference in, 590 
prevention of, 577 
iodin in, 578 
removal of predisposing causes in 

employees, 579 
r61e of tonsillitis in, 580 
in emergency surgery, prevention of, 

513 

closure of wounds in, 522 
drainage of wounds in, 521 
iodin in, 514 
prevention of, 500 
respiratory, in industry, 178 
teeth a source of, 61 
Influence of new employees and speed- 
ing-up, on accident rate, 351 
Influenza, 180 
Information record of applicants for 

work, 117 

Ingrowing nails, treatment of, 662 
Inhalation of dust, pathological effects 

of, 204, 432 
Injured, mental idleness drawback to, 

547 

psychotherapeutic treatment of, 544 
subsequent or permanent treatment 

of, 543 
Inspection and education in accident 

prevention, 339, 340 
sanitary, of plant, 26 

restaurant by medical staff, 111, 

112 

Inspectors of safety methods, 341 
Insurance, 667 

and compensation, 272 

health, 740. See also Health insurance. 



INDEX 



837 



Insurance service of employees, 31 
Inversion and eversion of ankle, 561 
lodin and applicators, rack for, 497 
immediate use of, first aid procedure, 

503 

in emergency surgery, 514 
strength employed, 514 
use of, 499 

preventive measure in minor acci- 
dents, 332 

Iron works, health hazards in, prevent- 
ive measures in, 250 

JAW, phossy, 221 

Jewish Tuberculous Association of New 

York City, 456 
Joint, re-education of, 557 
Jones' abduction frame for high frac- 
tures of femur, 617 

arm extension splint, 611 

cock-up wrist splint, 614 

KNEE, rotation of, 560 

LABOR turn-over, estimates of cost of, 88 
reduction of, by medical depart- 
ment, 84, 85 
Laboratory in connection with doctor's 

office, 73 
in hospital, 40 

in medical department, 39, 40 
Lay assistants, number needed in med- 
ical department, 93 
Lead colic, 215 

compounds, danger of, 216 
health hazards of workers in, preven- 
tive measures for, 251 
industries in which used, health regu- 
lations of European governments 
for, 252, 254 
paralysis, 216 
poisoning, 213 
colic in, 215 

dangerous trades found in, 216 
diagnosis of, Gower's three postu- 
lates in, 214 
examination for early diagnosis of, 

214 

paralysis in, 216 
symptoms, 213 

smelting, advice to employees in, 264 
to employers in, 264 



Lead smelting, duties of occupier in, 

260 

of persons employed in, 263 
general regulations for, 256 
health hazards in, German Imperial 

Regulations for, 256 
preventive measures in, 255 
regulations for clothing, overalls, 
and lavatory accommodations 
in, 258 
for employment of workers in, 

258 
special regulations for distillation 

of zinc skimmings, 257 
for lead colors preparation, 257 
trades, dangerous, 216 
white, production of, health hazard 

regulations in, 265 
works, poisoning in, 217 
Lectures and individual instruction to 

employees on dental hygiene, 63 
Leg, fractures of, 606, 616, 623 
Licensing, 232 
Lime, chlorinated as disinfectant, 161 

milk of, as disinfectant, 161 
Liquid disinfectants, 160 
Liquor cresolis compositus, 160 
Loan and banking service of employees, 

31 
system for dental care of employees, 

66 
Location of medical department, 33- 

37 
Locker and dressing rooms, 164 

room, cafeteria, dining room and 

commissary, floor plan of, 114 
Lockjaw. See Tetanus. 
Loss, financial, due to employment of 

physically unfit, 87 
Lumbago, 179 

Lunch of employees, deficient in calo- 
ries, 110 
where eaten, 110 

MACHINERY, broken, cause of accidents, 
323 

safety appliances on, 324 
Major accidents, preventive measures 

in, 320 
Malingering, 732 

absolute faking in, 735 

medicolegal aspects of, 732 

true, 732 



838 



INDEX 



Managerial staff, diplomacy in medical 

treatment of, 99 
periodical medical examination of, 

99 

recreation and exercise for, 100 
sets example for employees, 99 
supervision of health of, 98 
Manures, artificial, manufacture of, 

health hazard regulations for, 242 
Marsee tin finger splint, 615 
Massage, 551 
Mechanotherapy, 556 
Medical and surgical care for employees 

and their families, 49 
supervision of employees, cost of, 

84 
department, 33 

and service room plan, 34 
benefits and profits of, 79 
city health department and, close 

cooperation between, 113 
cost of, 90 

caliber of physicians employed, 

90 
number of employees, 94 

of hours physicians are en- 
gaged, 90 
of industrial nurses employed. 

93 

of lay assistants employed, 93 
of physicians needed, 93 

on staff, 92 
total, 94 

dental office of, 42 
estimate of financial returns due 

to, 79 

examining room, 38 
food of employees a responsibility 

of, 109, 110 
general office, 38 
history room, 39 
laboratory of, 39 
location of, 33-37 
minimum requirements of, 36 
offices of, 37 
prevention of spread of epidemic 

diseases by, 178 
preventive work of, 133 
private office of physician in 

charge, 39 
records, 116 

doctor's office pass, 118 
record, 116, 119 



Medical department records, em- 
ployee's pass home, 120 
filing of, 116 
information, of applicants for 

work, 117 

report of accident, 121, 122, 123 
request for nurse's call, 124 
return to work pass, 120 

rest rooms of, 42, 582 

rooms for eye, ear, nose and throat 
work, 42 

sanitary inspection of plant res- 
taurant, by, 111, 112 

sources of profit from, 84 

sterilizing room of, 41 

success of, confidence of employees 
necessary to, 80 

supervision of physical exercises 

by, 107 
of plant restaurant by, 111 

surgical room of, 40 

toilet facilities of, 42 

waiting room, 38 

x-ray laboratory of, 41 
director, 44 

as head of employees service de- 
partment, 18, 19 
examination of applicants for work, 

22, 27, 86, 87, 134, 359, 370 
do they object to examinations, 

381 

fitting disabled to jobs, 382 
percentage of rejects, 384 
reasons for examination, 372 
rejection standards, 377 
should diseased conditions be ex- 
plained, 380 

what becomes of rejects, 383 
when to examine, 371 

of employees, 355 

attitude of employee toward, 368 
classes divided into, 357 
female, 38, 416, 427 
in plant restaurant, 111 
new, 359 

of lead process, 262, 263 
present working force, 358 
problem of physically unfit, 367 
reasons in favor of, 357 
re-examination of, 359, 360 
routine procedure for, 362 
statistics of examinations, 363 
steps of examination, 362 



INDEX 



839 



Medical examination, periodical, for 

managerial staff, 99 
office, industrial, serving several in- 
dustries, 48 

service of employees, 20 
staff, 43 

duties and size of, 43-50 
treatment of employees, 22, 391 
complete, 401 
supervision of, 391 
types of cases causing time loss, 

402 
what cases should be treated, 

399 
Medicine, industrial, 355 

preventive, in industry, 133 
Medicolegal phases, 667 
Men's rest room, 582 
Mental idleness, drawback to injured, 

547 

Mercurialism, 220 
Mercury, bichlorid of, as disinfectant, 

161 
health hazards in use of, regulations 

for, 269 
poisoning, 220 

symptoms, 220 

Metacarpal bones, fractures of, 614 
Metal handling trades and smelting, 

preventive measures in, 250 
pickling, health hazard regulations 

in, 269 
shakes, 218 
Metallic dust, 206 

mortality from occupations in. 

437 

Milk of lime, 161 
Mineral dust, 206 
Minor accidents, preventive measures 

in, 331 

diseases common to women em- 
ployees, 422 

Misfits among employees, 30 
Model cafeteria for employees, 113 

office room, 146 

Mortality in dusty occupations, 437 
Motion picture shows for employees, 

105 

Mouths, unclean, prevalence of, 61 
Municipal health boards and commis- 
sioners, 232 

Munition factory in England, 170 
Mutual benefit associations, 31 



NAILS, ingrowing, treatment of, 662 
National Safety Council, history of, 

310 

Neck, stiff, 179 

Nervousness among employees, 30 
Neuroses, traumatic, medicolegal as- 
pects of, 721. See also Traumatic 
neuroses. 

Nitric acid and explosives, health haz- 
ard regulations for, 238 
Nurse, industrial, 51 

Club of Chicago for, 59 
conserves physician's time, 57 
daily routine of, 53 

at plant and in homes, 54 
for tuberculous cases, 58 
number employed, 93 
qualifications of, 51, 58 
report of request to call, 124 
responsibilities of, 52 
surgical, 478 
Nursing service of employees, 24 

OCCUPATIONAL diseases, prevention of 

and vocational hygiene, 222 
compensation and insurance in, 

272 
measures in smelting and metal 

handling trades, 250 
special measures for workers, 232 
regulations for chemical in- 
dustries, 237 
three legislative measures for, 

225 

hazards in tuberculosis, 437 
therapy, 549 
Occupations, dusty, mortality in, 437, 

438 
health hazards in, 201. See also 

Health hazards in occupations. 
ward, for convalescent soldiers, 780 
Office, doctor's, 33 

of medical department, 37 
surgical, 479 

equipment of, 480 
Ointments in emergency surgery, 

538 
Orchitis, traumatic, medicolegal aspects 

of, 738 
Organization, successful plan of, in one 

industry, 18 
Outdoor athletics for employees, 107 



840 



INDEX 



PAINTERS' trade, health hazard regula- 
tions in, 265 

Painting and allied trades, lead poison- 
ing in, 217 

Paraffin treatment of burns, 537-540 
Paralysis in lead poisoning, 216 
Patent medicine quackery, 395, 398 
Pathological effects of inhalation of dust, 

204, 432 
Pay envelopes, prevention propaganda 

on, 342, 343 
Permanent or subsequent treatment of 

injuries, 542 
Permanganate-formalin method of 

evolving formaldehyd gas, 158 
Personal hygiene in handling of poison- 
ous materials, 234 
Petroleum in industry, health hazard 

regulations for, 244 
Phalanx, terminal, crushes of, 616 
Phosphorus in industry, health hazard 

regulations for, 245 
poisoning, 221 
Phossy jaw, 221 

Physical examination of applicants for 
work, 22, 27, 86, 87, 134, 359, 370 
of employees, 20 

before entrance into physical ex- 
ercises, 107 
for prevention of accidents, 328, 

329 

purpose, 21 
exercises conducted during working 

hours, 105 

or mental condition of employee, acci- 
dents due to, 328 

selection of employees for work, 
source of profit from medical de- 
partment, 86 
Physically unfit, employment of, 86, 87, 

374-377 
Physicians, number needed in medical 

department, 93 
of hours employed, 92 
on staff, 92 
Physiotherapy, 551 

Placards for spread of spirit of preven- 
tion, 336, 337 
Plan of sleeping shack for six patients, 

453 
Plant hospital, 33 

industrial, accident prevention in, 138 
fire prevention in, 139 



Plant, industrial, prevention as related 

to physical conditions of, 137 
physician, duty in regard to hygiene 

of plant, 141 
in detection and prevention of 

health hazards, 201 
should inspect drinking fountains, 

162 
supervision of plant disinfection 

by, 156 
restaurant, 110 

medical examination of employees 

of, 111 
sanitary inspection of by medical 

staff, 111, 112 

supervision of, by medical depart- 
ment, 111 
surgeon leader in spirit of prevention, 

339, 349 

walls, finish of, 164 
Plaster bouillon for casts, method of 

preparing, 622 
Playgrounds, 105 

Plumbism, 213. See also Lead poison- 
ing. 

Pneumonia, 180 
Poisoning, arsenic, 219 

in American trades, 220 
in English trades, 219 
industries in which may occur, 294- 

309 

lead, 213 
colic in, 215 

dangerous trades found in, 216 
diagnosis of, Gowers's three postu- 
lates in, 214 
examination for early diagnosis of, 

214 

paralysis in, 216 
symptoms, 213 
mercury, 220 

symptoms, 220 
phosphorous, 221 
trinitrotoluene, 238 
causation, 239 
prevention, 240 
symptoms, 240 
treatment, 241 
zinc, 218 

Poisons, industrial, arsenic, 219 
classification, 211 
definition, 210 



INDEX 



841 



Poisons, industrial important r61e in, 

211 
laws requiring reporting of cases of, 

212 

lead, 213 
list of, 274-293 
mercury, 220 
phosphorous, 221 
zinc, 218 

Pott's fracture, 606 

Power gas works, health hazard regula- 
tions for, 245 
Pox, 198 

Practical system of industrial medicine 
and surgery, detailed outline of, in 
large industry, 67 
Predisposing factors to tuberculosis 

among employees, 432 
Prescription for fruit mixture for con- 
stipation, 426 

Prevalence of unclean mouths and de- 
cayed teeth, 61 
Prevention, 133 
among employees, 134. 

applicants for work, 134 

old employees, 134 

physical examination of old and 

new, 134 
as related to activities of industry, 

139 

to physical conditions of plant, 137 
in employees home conditions, 137 
in industrial hygiene, 137 
in relationship between employee and 

fellow employees, 136 
and his work, 135 
measures rendered employee, 136 
of accidents, 318, 319, 486 
and recurrences of, 25 
depends upon inspection and edu- 
cation, 339 
due to disaster, 331 
due to physical or mental condition 

in employee, 328 
employees' co-operation in, 134, 

341 

in plant, 138 

inspectors of safety methods in, 341 
major, 320 
minor, 331 

safety appliances attached to em- 
ployee, 326 
on machinery, 324 



Prevention of complications when ac- 
cidents occur, 487 
'of disease, employees' co-operation 

in, 134, 341 

of fire, in industrial plant, 139 
of infection in hand injuries, 577 
of occupational diseases and voca- 
tional hygiene, 222 
compensation and insurance in, 

272 
measures in smelting and metal 

handling trades, 250 
special measures for workers, 232 
regulations for chemical indus- 
tries, 237 
three legislative measures for, 

225 

of permanent loss of function of in- 
jured part, 488 

of premature breakdowns, 488 
of spread of epidemic diseases by 

medical staff, 178 

of tuberculosis among employees, 442 
of undue loss of time from work, 488 
propaganda, 135 

on pay envelopes, 342, 343 
spirit of, 335 

inspection and education in, 339, 

340 

plant surgeon leader in, 339, 349 
Preventive legislation, lack of, 127 
measures for workers, special, 232 
in smelting and metal handling 

trades, 250 
medicine and surgery in industry, 

133 

surgery, 475, 485 

Printing trades, health hazard regula- 
tions in, 267 
lead poisoning in, 218 
Private office for physician in charge of 

medical department, 39 
Privies, specifications for, 165 
Prizes, in accident prevention methods, 

341 

Problems of industrial hygiene, 141 
Production and industrial hygiene, 167. 
See also Hygiene, industrial and pro- 
duction. 

Profits and benefits of medical depart- 
ment, 79 

sources of, from medical department, 
84 



842 



INDEX 



Propaganda, anti-accident, 339 

prevention, 135 

Protractors for measuring angles of 
movement in shoulder, elbows, wrist, 
knee and ankle, 557 
Provision of individual wash basin or 

trough, 163 

of washing faucets in toilet rooms, 165 
Psychotherapeutic treatment of injured, 

544 

Psychrometer, Sling, 153 
Pulley weights for exercising fingers in 

flexion and extension, 562 
triplicate, 556 

QUACKERY, in hernia treatment, 397 

in surgical appliances, 397 

in venereal diseases, 395 

patent medicine, 395, 398 
Qualifications of industrial nurse, 51, 58 
Quicklime as disinfectant, 161 

RAGS, sorting and shredding, health 

hazards in, 209 

Rattan, splitting and sorting, dust haz- 
ards in, 209 
Reclamation of disabled, 776 

physical reconstruction in army, 

778 

in industries, 785 
size of problem, 787 
solution of problem, 796 
usual method in industry, 786 
Reconstruction, 769 
Records, medical department, 116 
doctor's office pass, 118 

record, 116, 119 
employee's pass home, 120 
filing of, 116 
information, for applicants for 

work, 117 

report of accident, 121, 122, 123 
request for nurse's call, 124 
return to work pass, 120 
Recreation and exercise as related to 
supervision of health of employ- 
ees, 102 

for managerial staff, 100 
for employees, 102 
room for employees, 104, 105 
service of employees, 28 
Re-education, functional, 554 
of injured joint, 557 



Report of Committee on Factories, 36 
Resin and turpentine glue for fracture 

traction bands, 612 
Respiratory infections in industry, 

178 
Responsibility of industrial nursing 

service, 52 

Rest, essential preventive measure, 519 
periods for women employees, 420 
room for men employees, 582 
for women employees, 419, 420 
of medical department, 42 
Restaurant, plant, 110 

medical examination of employees 

in, 111 
sanitary inspection of, by medical 

staff, 111, 112 

supervision of, by medical depart- 
ment, 111 

service of employees, 27 
Re'sume' of growth of industrial health 

service, 125 
Resuscitation, use of, 501 

in emergency surgery, 530 
Ribs, fracture of, 604 
Rotation, flexion and extension and 

lateral movements of wrist, 559 
of hip, 560 
of knee, 560 

Routine, daily, of industrial nurse, 53 
at plant and in homes, 54 

SAFETY appliances attached to em- 
ployee, 326 
on machinery, 324 
committees among employees, 341 
engineer, 25 
first, 310, 341 

methods, inspectors of, 341 
organizations, 339, 340 
service of employees, 25 
Salt cake, hydrochloric acid and soda 
industries, health hazard regulations 
for, 237 
Sanatoria for treatment of tuberculous 

employees, 444 
Sanitary inspections of plant, 26 

of restaurant by medical staff, 111, 

112 
Sanitation, industrial, 125 

movements, employees' co-operation 

in, 134 
service of employees, 26 



INDEX 



843 



Sanitation, state labor laws in relation 

to, resume" of, 125, 126 
Schafer method for artificial breathing, 

249 

Sears shack, Edwards Sanatorium, 453 
Service departments of employees, 17 
banking and loan, 31 
dental, 60 
employment, 26 
housing and community, 32 
insurance, 31 
medical, 20 
nursing, 24 
recreational, 28 
restaurant, 27 
safety, 25 
sanitation, 26 
surgical, 24 
welfare, 30 
Sheet or spray method of evolving f orm- 

aldehyd gas, 159 
Shipbuilding yards, industrial hygiene 

in, 132 
Shock and hemorrhage in emergency 

surgery, 525, 528 
combating, 500 
in emergency surgery, 522 

treatment, 526, 528 
symptoms of, 527 
Shoddy, production of, health hazards 

in, 209 

Showers for employees, 163 
Shredding, rag, health hazards in, 209 
Silver and gold extraction, health haz- 
ard regulations for, see Mercury. 
Sitting positions for women employees, 

420 

Sling psychrometer, 153 
Small-pox, 195 
Smelter shakes, 218 
Smelting and metal handling trades, 

preventive measures in, 250 
lead, 255. See also Lead smelting. 
Soap holders for employees' toilets, 163 
Soda, salt cake and hydrochloric acid 
industries, health hazard regulations 
for, 237 
Soldiers, disabled, reclaiming of, 467, 

468 

War Risk Insurance for, 468 
tuberculous, provision for, 469 

reclaiming of, from military and 
industrial armies, 461 



Specifications for urinals, 165 
Speeding-up and new employees, influ- 
ence of, on accident rate, 351 
Spirit of prevention, 335 
Splint, Hodgen, in fractures of femur, 

618, 619 
Jones' arm extension, 611 

cock-up wrist, 614 
Marsee tin, for finger, 615 
necessary in emergency surgery, 603 
Thomas, 603 

for suspension and traction, 620 
method of applying, 604, 605, 606 
wood triangle, used in French army 

hospitals, 610 
Sprains, treatment of, in emergency 

surgery, 535 
Spray or sheet method of evolving 

formaldehyd gas, 159 
Sputum examination, plan used in large 

industry, 73 
Staff, medical, 43 

surgical, plans for, 476 
State labor laws in relation to sanita- 
tion, resume of, 125, 126 
Sterile dressings, importance of, 483 
Sterilizing room, 481 

of medical department, 41 
Stiff neck, 179 
Stomach analyses, plan used in large 

industry, 74 
troubles, 425 

Stove factory, medical attention in, 44 
Strained backs coincidental with 

disease, 715 
Stretcher bed, use of in army hospital, 

600 

table, 599 
Subsequent or permanent treatment of 

injuries, 542 
Successful plan of organization in one 

industry, 18 
Sulphur as disinfectant, 157 

dioxid, 159 
Sulphuric acid industry, health hazard 

regulations for, 237 
Sunstroke, treatment of, in emergency 

surgery, 531 

Supervision of health of employees, 17 
recreation and exercise related 

to, 102 

of managerial staff, 98 
Supplies, surgical, 481 



844 



INDEX 



Surgeon, industrial, duties of, in rela- 
tionship to compensation, 682 
place in americanization of foreign 

employee, 769 

Surgery, accident, sources of, 484 
emergency, 511 

accidents and wounds in, 512, 513 
cleansing wound in, 520 
closure of wounds in, 522, 532 
combat immediate complications 

in, 523 

combating shock in, 523 
drainage of wounds in, 521 
dressings for, 536 
fainting in, treatment, 534 
frost-bites in, treatment, 530 
heat exhaustion in, treatment, 531 
hemorrhage and shock in, 525, 528 
immobilization of fractures in, 535 
impending death in, 523 
infections in, 513 
iodin as antiseptic in, 514 
other antiseptics used in, 515 
prevention of complications in, 513 
of deformity in, 523 
of hemorrhage in, 523 
of tetanus in, 522 
removal of foreign bodies from 

wound, 520 

rest in prevention in, 519 
sequence of treatment in, 513 
shock and hemorrhage in, 525, 528 
sprains in, treatment, 535 
sunstroke in, treatment, 531 
temporary and permanent relief in, 

532 

industrial, 475 
x-ray in, 568 
preventive, in industry, 133, 475, 

485 
Surgical and medical care for employees 

and their families, 49 
supervision of employees, cost of, 

84 

dispensary, 475 
dressing room for men, 478 

for women, 480 
dressings, schedule for, 485 

supplies and bandages, 481 
nurse, 478 
office, 479 

equipment of, 480 
room of medical department, 40 



Surgical service of employees, 24 

staff, plans for, 476 
Sweaty feet, treatment of, 661 
Syphilis, 198 

cerebrospinal, accident prevention in, 

330 
Syphilitic cases, care of, 23 

TABLE, bed, suitable for games or bed- 
side occupations, 555 
stretcher, 599 

Tailors and garment workers, tubercu- 
losis among, 208 
Tar, coke and gas, production of, health 

hazard regulations for, 245 
products, from distillation; health 

hazard regulations for, 248 
Taylor hygrodeik, 153 
Teeth, diseased, prevalence of, 61 
examination of, part of physical ex- 
amination, 60 
Temperature, 153 

Tent in rear of flat building for tubercu- 
lous employee, 450 
Tetanus, prevention of, in emergency 

surgery, 522 
Thigh, fractures of, 604 
Thomas arm extension splint for severe 

fractures, 608 
splint, 603 

for suspension and traction, 620 
method of applying, 604, 605, 

606 

Tin strips for protection of injured fin- 
ger, 483 
Tobacco industries, health hazards in, 

209, 210 
Toilet and drinking facilities for women 

employees, 422 

facilities of medical department, 42 
Toilets in plant, 164 

number of installations, 164 
provision of washing faucets in, 165 
specifications for closets in, 165 

for urinals in, 165 
urinals in, 165 
Tonsillitis, 180, 425 

role in hand infections, 580 
Tonsils, diseased, 489 
Tooth-brush drill conducted by com- 
pany nurse, 62 
Torticollis, 179 
Trades, dusty, chief, 205 



INDEX 



845 



Transfusion, blood, in shock in emer- 
gency surgery, 527, 530 
Traumatic apoplexy, medicolegal as- 
pects of, 736 
appendicitis, medicolegal aspects of, 

736 
displacements of uterus, medicolegal 

aspects of, 738 
neuroses, age and sex in, 726 
desire for gain in, 724 
exciting cause of, 726 
fear and suggestion in, 725 
medicolegal aspects of, 721 
moral instability in, 722 
neurasthenia and hysteria recog- 
nized types of, 726 
psychic impressions in, 726 
race influence in, 726 
treatment of, 727 

orchitis, medicolegal aspects of, 738 
Traumatisms and tuberculosis, relation- 
ship between, 435, 436 
with medicolegal aspects, 719 
Treatment of conditions directly the 

result of occupations, 22 
of home accidents, 22 
Trinitrotoluene poisoning, 238 
causation, 239 
prevention, 240 
symptoms, 240 
treatment, 241 
Triplicate pulley weight for mechanc- 

therapy, 556 
Tuberculosis, 429 

and traumatisms, relationship be- 
tween, 435, 436 
cases, care of, 23 
decrease in, among old employees, by 

medical examinations, 368 
occupational hazards in, 437 
predisposing factors to, among em- 
ployees, 432 

prevalence of, in industry, 431 
prevention among employees, 442 
problem in army, 467 
pulmonary, among tailors and gar- 
ment workers, 208 
Tuberculous employees, 429 
at work, 456 

examination for discovery of, 128 
model garment factory for 457, 458 
nurse for, 58 
treatment of, 444 



Tuberculous employees, treatment of, 

at home, 449 

by certain organizations, 446 
by Ford Motor Company, 454 
by Jewish Tuberculous Associa- 
tion of New York City, 456 
detection of disease in early 

stage, 445 
free, 449 
industrial convalescence in, 458, 

460 
periodical medical examinations 

for, 445 

sanatoria for, 444, 451 
from military and industrial armies, 
plan for physical reconstruction 
and rehabilitation of, 469-473 
industrial soldiers, problems in care 

of, 466 
soldier, provision for, 469 

reclaiming of, from military and 

industrial armies, 461 
Turpentine and resin glue for fracture 

traction bands, 612 
as antiseptic, 515 
Typhoid fever, 178, 195 
from unsanitary toilets, 135 
inoculations, 49 

UNFIT, physically, employment of, 86, 
87, 374-377 

Unjust compensation and litigation, re- 
duction of, by medical department, 
85, 86 

Upper extremity, fractures of, 606 

Urinals, number of, in plant, 165 
specifications for, 165 

Urinalyses, plan used in large industry, 
72 

Uterus, traumatic displacements of, 
medicolegal aspects of, 738 

VACCINATIONS, 49 

Valmora Industrial Sanatorium, 455 

Varnishes and drying oil industries, 

health hazard regulations for, 272 
Vegetable dust, hazards of, in textile 

production, 207 
Venereal diseases, 196 

beware of advertising specialiste, 

198 
prevention, 198 

propaganda, 197, 198 



846 



INDEX 



Venereal diseases, what to do in, 198 

quack, 395 
Ventilation, adequate, 155 

principles of, 151, 152 
Vicious circle, 30 
Vision, defective, care of, 23 
Vocational hygiene and prevention of 

occupational diseases, 222 

WAITING room of medical department, 

38 
Wall paper production, health hazards 

in, 209 

Walls of plant, finish of, 164 
Ward occupations for convalescent 

soldiers, 780 

Washing facilities, for employees, 163 
clothes hooks, 163 
hot and cold water, 164 
location of supply pipes, 164 
number of faucets, 163 
provision of individual wash 

basins, 163 
showers, 163 
soap holders, 163 
spacing of fixtures, 163 
Waste, financial, due to employment of 

physically unfit, 87 
Welfare service of employees, 30 
Wet and dry bulb for- .temperature of 

plant, 153 
White lead production, health hazard 

regulations in, 265 
Whitewash as disinfectant, 161 
Women in industry, 405 

choosing occupations for, 413 

clothing of, 421 

drinking and toilet facilities for, 

422 

food for, 422 

medical supervision for, 411413 
minor diseases common to, 422 
colds, 423 

constipation, 423, 425 
dysmenorrhea, 423, 426 
grippe, 425 
headaches, 422 
stomach trouble, 425 
tonsillitis, 425 

physical examination of, 414 
problems of, 411 



Women in industry, question of hours 

of labor for, 408 

recommendations by Committee 
on Standards of Working Con- 
ditions, 409 
rest rooms for, 419 
routine examination of girl em- 
ployees, 416 
sitting positions and rest periods 

for, 420 
which girl employees are examined, 

419 

Wood working industries, dust from, 209 
Work and benefits of human mainte- 
nance department, 81, 82 
Workroom, cleanliness of and purity 
of air in prevention of industrial poi- 
soning, 236 

Worry among employees, 30 
Wounds, cleansing of, in emergency 

surgery, 520 
closure of, in emergency surgery, 522, 

532 

drainage of, in emergency surgery, 521 
removal of foreign bodies from, in 

emergency surgery, 520 
Wrist abduction in action, 559 
adduction and abduction of, 558 
rotation, flexion and extension and 
lateral movements of, 559 

X-RAY in discovering foci of infection 

about teeth, 60, 63 
in industrial surgery, 568 

types of injury requiring exami- 
nation by, 569 

in treatment of fractures, 598 
laboratory of medical department, 41 
machine, portable, for accident sur- 
gery, 572 
room in doctor's office, 568 

Y. M. C. A. in connection with large 
industry, 103 

ZINC ague, 218 

poisoning, 218 

skimmings, health hazards in distilla- 
tion of, regulations for, 257 

smelting, health hazard regulations 
in, 269 



> 




University of Toronto 
library 




Acme Library Card Pocket 

Under Pat. "Ref. Index File" 

Made by LIBRARY BUREAU 



