
Baruch, Bernard iMannes 

Putting farming on a modem 

basis. 




1765 

JSZO 



Putting Farming on a Modern 
Business Basis 



Being a Copy of a Letter to The Secretary 
of the Kansas State Board of AgricuUure 

BERNARD M. BARUCH 

'7 



,- U^-..i \J, 







LIBRARY 

752657 

UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO 



Putting Farming on a Modern Business Basis 



J. C. MoHLER, Secretary, 

The Kansas State Board of Agriculture, 
Topeka, Kansas. 
Dear Sir: — 

The world at large had not given much 
thought to the farmer and what he was 
doing for it until the great World War. 
Then it was learned that the farmer was 
one of the most vital factors i n t he success of 
the war, because the world had to be fed. 

After the war, the high cost of living 
becoming acute, soon brought vividly to 
every one that farming was a matter in 
which not only the farmer was interested, 
but, that the production and distribution 
of his products were matters of vital and 
grave concern to the dweller in the city. 

I felt highly honored to be asked by 
your board to appear before it and give 
my views regarding some of the problems 
confronting the farmer in the marketing 
of his product. As I stated at that time, 
being unfamiliar with the subject, I pre- 
ferred to see the problem and study it at 
closer range before giving any opinion 
upon any phase of it. The subject has 
been given so much consideration not 
alone by the various farm organizations, 
but by the Departments of Agriculture of 
the various states, and the Federal Gov- 
ernment itself, that I hesitate to bring 
forward any suggestions. 



New York, Decemljer 3, 1920. 



Present Critical Market Conditions 

Before going into the subject, it might 
be well to call attention to the present 
critical conditions in the market for com- 
modities in the world. 

The congestion in marketing is one of 
the prime reasons why commodities are 
selling, in many instances, below their 
present cost of production. 



During the war various quantities of 
commodities were cut off from normal 
markets owing to the lack of transporta- 
tion by .sea and the inability to finance. 
Upon the United States devolved the ne- 
ces.iity not alone of financing the major 
part of the Allies' demands, l)ut also 
furnishing large amounts of raw materials 
and finished products. Thus our agriful- 
ture and industries were greatly stimu- 
lated. Even after the war there was still 
available to many of the .Vllies some of 
the credit extended to them during the 
war, which they used for purchases. This, 
together with the credit the .\llies thorn- 
selves could raise, contirmed the l)uying 
movement for necessities, and gave a tem- 
porary appearance of a continuance of the 
absorption of our products in the usual 
volume. But after the first great rush to 
some extent was satisfied, it soon InTame 
evident that the finances of our former 
consumers were being curtailed and that 
there was a necessity to husband resources. 
They also commenced to supply some 
wants from home production. 

The ordinary trade routes through 
which we marketed our |)r(Hiucts have 
not i)een reoj)ened, anil we are witnessing 
a gradual curtailment of the purchasing 
power of our former customers. The mar- 
kets of the world will not l>e reoix'ned 
until we have {>eace. and until Germany's 
payment for reparation is fixed. This, in 
my opinion, is the most imi>ortatit factor 
in the revival of our agriculture and 
industrv. 



1] 



Restriction of European Demand 

Europe, and particularly the Central 
Empires, were among the largest buyers 
of raw materials from the United States 
and the rest of the world. All European 
countries, and particularly the Central 
Empires, have been restricted in their 
ability to buy, because of the non-deter- 
mination of the reparation which the 
Germans must pay. The Allied Govern- 
ments, in varying degree, are depending 
upon what they receive from Germany 
to rehabilitate their own impaired finan- 
cial and industrial structures. The Ger- 
mans have to pay practically all the dam- 
ages that will be assessed against the 
enemy states. The Germans will not re- 
sume purchases on the former scale until 
they know what bill will be determined 
against them. They feel that, if they pro- 
ceed to buy and revive their industries, 
the prosperity of their country will in- 
crease and that the reparation will be 
correspondingly increased. So it is that 
the commerce of those who will receive 
payments from Germany, and the com- 
merce of Germany itself, which makes the 
payment, will both have to wait until the 
damage has been definitely assessed 
against her. 

The principal recipient of payments 
from Germany will be France. And 
France will not in justice to her people 
accept a reasonable payment unless she 
can be secured against what occurred in 
the Franco-Prussian and World War. 

Upon the termination of hostilities, 
ships were released for the transportation 
of commodities such as wheat and wool 
from Australia and the Argentine. These 
commodities, previously cut off by the 
war, are now coming into competition 
with our products in the markets of the 
world — markets limited in their consump- 
tion and buying capacity by the non- 
determination of the reparation which 
Germany will be called upon to pay. 

The disturbed condition of the world 



markets, and the non-reopening of old 
trade routes have resulted in the serious 
situation confronting us. Production of 
the mines and mills can be curtailed al- 
though it would involve great loss to the 
operators and suffering to the workers in 
these industries. The corporations and 
individuals owning and operating mines 
and mills have facilities for financing, 
which, to a certain extent, enable them 
to meet the situation. Most of them, in 
addition to the resources which they have 
accumulated, have allied with them great 
banking concerns, which can aid them in 
reaching whatever credits are available. 

The Farmer's Lack of Financing Facilities 

In the case of the farmer, we have 
parallel conditions with the exception that 
he is scattered and has not connected with 
his product the same facilities for financ- 
ing or meeting the new critical condi- 
tions. The farmer can vary but not cur- 
tail production without injury to his farm 
and without very grave injury to the 
community. The curtailment of copper, 
steel, lumber or manufactured products 
for six months or a year, or even for a 
longer time, may be a very serious injury 
to the community, but it can not begin to 
have the consequences that would follow 
a curtailment of agricultural production. 

The farmer now finds himself in the pre- 
dicament of having a crop partly cut off 
from its usual market, former trade routes 
limited, and unable to finance himself un- 
less he is willing to sell his products at 
very great sacrifices, in many instances 
well below the cost of production. This 
can not be permanently remedied until 
the trade routes of the world are reopened. 
They can be reopened only through peace 
and the determination of a reasonable 
sum for Germany to pay under the Treaty. 

If necessary credit is not extended so 
that the farmers may market their prod- 
ucts according to consumption needs, and 
secure a reasonable return for their efforts. 



they will suffer very severely, and will 
restrict their operations. And the con- 
sumer, who is vitally concerned in the 
maintenance of a normal flow of products, 
will suffer in the end. 

There are certain things which must 
be done, it seems to me, before a success 
can be made of cooperative marketing, 
which I desire at once to approve whole- 
heartedly. While I do not presume to be 
an expert on the subject, I would like to 
present certain suggestions for your con- 
sideration whether cooperative marketing 
is undertaken or not. 

Producer Must Be on a Par With Buyer 

The theory of my recommendations is 
that, in the marketing of his products, the 
producer must be placed on a footing of 
equal opportunity with the buyer. 

First (and this is the corner stone of the 
whole subject matter) I believe that suffi- 
cient storage warehouses for cotton, wool 
and tobacco, or elevators for grain, nmst 
be provided at primary points to carry 
the peak load in the distribution of the 
product. These warehouses or elevators 
should be preferably under private owner- 
ship. But if private capital is not forth- 
coming, they should be under State own- 
ership. But under any condition, they 
should be under State or Federal super- 
vision. 

The question as to who should own or 
build these elevators and warehouses re- 
quires some thought. But that adequate 
warehouses and elevator facilities of the 
most modern type should be established 
is beyond question. The very well being 
and prosperity of the different states and 
all of their citizens depends upon the 
proper marketing of their major products 
The modern warehouse makes possible 
the handling of agricultural commodities 
at reduced costs because of the saving 
that could be effected in insurance, financ- 
ing and marketing. It also will j)lay an 
immensely important part in the de\elop- 



ment of a practical plan of cooperative 
marketing. 

When the products are delivered to the 
warehouses or elevators, they should be 
projjerly weighed, graded and certified by 
licensed weighers or graders. For the lack 
of a better term, I shall call this process a 
"certification" of the product. This certi- 
fication should be so hedged alx)ut that 
underpayment, overcharging and unfair 
grading will be avoided. It will be the 
basis of sale, or, in case the producer does 
not desire to sell, it should be, and could 
be, made the basis on which he could 
borrow money until he is ready or willing 
to sell. 

Farmer Baffled by Simultaneous Lack 
of Credit and Transportation 

As a rule, the farmer's products move 
to the market when there is a great con- 
gestion both in the money market and 
in traffic conditions. This ojwrates to his 
disadvantage in the sale of them. Ar- 
rangements, therefore, should be made so 
that he can borrow a reasonable amount 
proi)erly margined upon the products of 
his farm. This will enable him to sell 
when the market will take them whether 
he sells as an individual or through a co- 
operative movement. 

In none of my remarks do I wish to 
im{)Iy improper or sinister motives to any 
of the factors that take part in the market- 
ing of our crops. They would not have 
survived if they had not Ikhmi fulfilling a 
useful purpose. There may be too many 
of them; but most of them are j>erforming 
a service. \o changes shouKl l>e made or 
contemplated that would destroy these 
factors, or any of them, unless there is 
something better established to take their 
places. But unciuestionably the farmer 
nmst be placed in a ix)sition to deal on an 
ecjual basis with those who buy and mar- 
ket his crops. 

Preparations are made each summer for 
the movement of the crops in the fall. 



3 



Yet almost every year we run into diffi- 
culties. This year they are accentuated 
by world conditions and the huge promo- 
tion, speculation and hoarding which took 
place during 1919 and 1920. Bankers, 
financiers, promoters, speculators and job- 
bers, with their many facilities and more 
marketable securities or warehouse certi- 
ficates, can always obtain more and 
cheaper credit than the farmer. 

Credit Should Be Allocated to 
Agriculture 

If possible, a certain percentage of the 
credit facilities should be set aside for the 
movement of the crops. In other words, 
our banking system should be so adjusted 
that not less than a certain percentage of 
the credit facilities are held in reserve for 
the movement of crops. In a way, it is 
already being done. But the farmer, the 
merchant and the manufacturer each has 
to bid for his share. Dealers and jobbers 
usually have little difficulty in securing 
credit to carry the very crops and prod- 
ucts which they have bought from the 
farmer, but the farmer frequently is un- 
able to obtain the credit he needs in order 
to finance the marketing of his commodi- 
ties in orderly fashion. At this writing I 
am not certain whether it is possible and 
wise to make it mandatory upon the banks 
to conserve a sufficient portion of their 
credit during a certain period for financing 
the movement of crops, or, in other words, 
give a priority to credit for moving the 
crops. In fact, many of the best bankers 
are already doing this voluntarily, recog- 
nizing its wisdom, and the obligations of 
their office. I may add that my personal 
contact with the bankers of the country 
convinces me that as a class they feel the 
responsibility of their calling and its 
opportunities for constructive service. 

New Agricultural Financing 
Corporations Required 

In connection with the establishment 
and operation of the necessary ware- 



house facilities, institutions or corpo- 
rations could be established for the 
purpose of making loans on the ware- 
house receipts. They should be large 
enough and so officered that they would 
gain the confidence of the investing 
public. Their capital stock should be 
open to public subscription. They 
could be made cooperative; but they 
need not necessarily be so. They could 
advance money to the individual, just 
as the banks do now for any time from 
thirty days up to six months or a year. 
They would not take the place of the 
present arrangement wherein the mer- 
chant, the banks, and the Federal Re- 
serve system finance the marketing of 
the crop, but would supplement it. The 
finance corporation would deposit in 
its treasury in trust the farmers' notes 
maturing at various dates, and secured 
by the warehouse receipts. It would 
then issue against the notes bearer cer- 
tificates, as is now done by the large 
corporations in the issuance of short 
time notes, in denominations of $100, 
$500 and $1,000. There would be no 
better short time investment or col- 
lateral than these obligations. The 
present process, wherein the farmer 
gives his note to the merchant, and the 
merchant his note to the local bank, 
and the bank sends it to the Federal 
Reserve Bank, amounts to practically 
the same thing. The only difference is 
that the secured bearer certificates 
would be in a negotiable form and 
would attract the private investor. 
There are large sums of money, even 
in the locality in which the production 
of the crop takes place, that would seek 
investment in small amounts, if it were 
made easy for investors to buy these 
negotiable, well-protected instruments. 
The finance corporation, being respon- 
sible for the repayment of the loans, 
would see to it that they are properly 
protected at all times. In other words, 



[4] 



investments in bearer certificates would 
be protected by the resources of the 
corporation plus the farmer's individual 
credit, plus the security of the ware- 
house receipt based upon a proper cer- 
tification of the amount and grade of, 
and insurance on the product covered 
by it. 

How the Proposed Scheme 
Would Work 

For instance, a farmer might deliver 
to a warehouse so many bales of cotton 
or so many bushels of grain. He could 
either sell his product on the basis of 
the warehouse receipt, or he could use 
it to secure indebtedness to the mer- 
chant, who, in turn, could go to the 
banks as at present; or he could go to 
the finance corporation and i)orrow, let 
us say, at six per cent, or seven per cent., 
or whatever the rate might be, and 
thus be able to pay cash for his sup- 
plies. The corporation in turn would 
issue its own bearer certificates carry- 
ing a rate of interest which would allow 
a margin suflBcient to cover the neces- 
sary expenses of the corporation and 
earn enough profit to attract the neces- 
sary capital. The corporation would 
sell the bearer certificates in denomina- 
tions of $100, $500 or $1,000 either to 
private investors or to the banks or 
financial institutions all over the coun- 
try. This process, with the corpora- 
tion's capital as a revolving fund, can 
be continued and repeated to the ex- 
tent that good business and financial 
judgment dictate. As the certificates 
become due, they would be forwarded 
back to the corporation which would 
meet them. This does not do away 
with the present method of financing. 
but only makes available for the mar- 
keting of agricultural commodities a 
large amount of money in the hands 
of private investors, who know, or 
would soon know, how safe this form 



of investment would be. There could 
be nothing more secure or more liquid 
than the bearer certificates based upon 
carefully guarded advances on farm 
products. 

Statistics of Demand Are Necessary 

The Government, through the De- 
partment of Agriculture, now estimates 
at frequent intervals during the grow- 
ing season the probable condition of 
the crops and yield of the different 
farm products so that everyone knows 
appr<ixiinately the amount of wheat, 
corn, oats, barley, rye, cotton, etc., 
that the farmer produces. The buyers 
and distributors are thus fully informed 
by the Government. The farmer, on 
the other hand, does not always have 
the same information regarding the 
demand for consumption as the buyers 
and distributors have of the output of 
the farm. In other words, he is not on 
an ecjual footing with the buyer. 

1 believe that there should l)e collected 
under the Department of Agriculture by 
the best talent obtainable full information 
from all the markets of the world. ff)reign 
and domestic. This information should l>e 
tabulated, summarized, and made avail- 
able at frequent intervals — daily, semi- 
weekly or weekly. It should l>e jwsted at 
the post-offices or printed in certain publi- 
cations so that the producers may Ix? as 
fully informed regarding the conditions 
of the selling market as the buyers and 
distributors are now informed regarding 
the condition of the buying market. The 
collection and di.ssemination of these facts 
will tend to avoid wide fiuct nations in the 
market, and make it {>ossible for the pro- 
ducer to deal with the buyer on an eijual 
basis in the disposition of his products. 
Why should not the Government's activi- 
ties along these lines l>e greatly enlarged 
so that the producer will have the same 
character anti class of information that is 
available to the buyers and distributors.' 



5] 



The producer is at a serious disadvantage 
when he does not know the conditions 
surrounding the consumption of his prod- 
uct. Yet these facts are in the possession 
of the great buyers and distributors of agri- 
cultural commodities. 

A Summary of Suggestions 

To sum up, if the suggestions I have 
made were adopted, the farmer would find 
himself in the following position: First, 
he would have adequate, modern storage 
facilities under public supervision. Sec- 
ond, his products would be certified as to 
grade and amount by licensed graders and 
weighers. Third, the certificates issued 
by the graders and weighers would be 
used as the basis of sales and purchases, 
as well as the basis of financing. Fourth, a 
fair share of the credits of the banking and 
financial institutions of the country would 
be reserved during certain periods for crop 
movement. Fifth, all market information 
would be collected and made available 
through trained experts by the Agricul- 
tural Department — this information to 
be of the kind and character now in the 
possession of buyers and consumers of the 
farmer's products. Sixth, a new source of 
credit, the private investor, would be 
reached by the establishment of financing 
corporations to make loans on warehouse 
receipts. 

This program, if put into effect, would, 
in my opinion, place the farmer in a posi- 
tion to market his crops advantageously 
whether he desires to do so individually 
or cooperatively. 

One of the best discussions of the sub- 
ject of cooperation in agriculture particu- 
larly for marketing purposes, is to be 
found in an article by J. Harold Powell, 
general manager of the California Fruit 
Growers Exchange, which has been pub- 
lished by the University of California 
(Circular No. 222). Mr. Powell points 
out very clearly some of the fundamental 
points which should be considered in 



formulating plans for collective marketing 
and I can do no better than to quote 
some of his statements, which I append 
hereto. 

Collective Marketing 

Collective marketing is less diflBcult 
where it covers a comparatively limited 
area and a specialized crop as, for instance, 
in the case of the Fresno Raisin Growers 
Association or Citrus Fruit Growers Ex- 
change of California. If all the wheat in 
Kansas were pooled for collective mar- 
keting, there still would remain the wheat 
of the other States, or other countries. If 
all the cotton of South Carolina or all the 
wool of Wyoming were pooled there would 
still remain the cotton and wool of other 
States and other countries. But coopera- 
tive selling of a product by communities or 
counties is advisable and possible, and 
would result in increased returns. Each 
community must organize according to 
local conditions and the character of the 
product to be marketed. This can gradu- 
ally be extended to include larger areas 
and more units. The larger central organ- 
izations, on which the smaller units should ' 
be represented, should protect, direct, 
advise and coordinate these units. 

I should like to emphasize the fact here 
that the system of distributing the prod- 
ucts of the farm will be, and should be, 
changed only through evolution and not 
by revolution. For centuries we have 
built up a delicate machinery of produc- 
tion, distribution, and finance, which can- 
not be ruthlessly and suddenly changed 
without injury to all parties concerned. 

There is no doubt that the farmers could 
buy collectively certain staple commodi- 
ties with advantage to themselves. But 
there are many things which they cannot 
buy to advantage cooperatively, especially 
where the question of individual taste is 
involved, such as clothing for men and 
women. The great question is whether 
the farmers will be better served by col- 
lective buying, taking all the risks in- 



volved, than by the present system which 
involves paying a profit to those who un- 
dertake the risks. Some of the cleverest 
distributors and merchants, large and 
small, now find themselves faced with 
great losses on account of bad judgment 
in purchasing. 

Care must be taken either in collective 
marketing or in collective buying that the 
power which would come into the hands 
of agencies established for these purposes 
is not abused. I believe that what the 
farmer is striving for is not an advantage, 
but merely that he shall receive the full 
benefit of the results of his labor. That 
he is entitled to this, all honest men must 
agree. 

Collective buying ought to be confined, 
at least for the time being, to the staples. 
Doubtless the question of collective buy- 
ing has come more to the front recently 
owing to the high prices and wide fluc- 
tuations that have prevailed. Before the 
farmer attempts collective buying, he must 
consider what he is endeavoring to replace, 
or whether he will really save anything 
by it. 

Important Role of the Merchant 

In many sections, the principal factor 
in the financing of the crop production 
and marketing is the country merchant, 
who makes advances or gives credit to the 
farmer until his crops are disposed of. 
Collective buying would result in the elim- 
ination of this most important factor in 
the situation without replacing it with 
better machinery unless the farmers 
through their savings are able to establish 
cooperative stores. These stores would 
have to make the advances now made, 
and take the risks now assumed, by the 
country merchant, who, after all is said, 
has been of the friendliest assistance, and 
has a sincere and sympathetic interest in 
the success of the farmer. The whole 
question revolves around the point 
brought out above as to whctlier the 



farmer can be better served by collective 
buying, or by the present agencies. There 
is no doubt that where the farmers have 
the credit and cash resources, they can 
establish for their mutual benefit collec- 
tive buying machinery. 

A great difficulty in collective buying 
on a large scale is the financing of the 
project. This will require money, and a 
sufficient amount of it to buy in advance, 
when conditions are favorable, large quan- 
tities of the various staples needed. The 
necessary capital will have to be provided, 
to a considerable extent, by the farmers 
themselves. Any large scale project will 
require time and patience before it can be 
built up to the point where it will be a 
real benefit. 

Reforms Should Be Gradual 

The difficulties and opposition that the 
farmer is going to encounter in his efforts 
to secure, through cooperation, proper 
compensation for what he gives to the 
community will be greatly increased if he 
attempts too much at once. Many a good 
business venture has failed by undertak- 
ing too much at first. In many ca-ses, we 
find that we started on the road to prog- 
ress, reform or betterment only to dis- 
cover that we have failed when we should 
have been successful. In most instances 
this is due to the desire to accoinpli.sh too 
much in too short a time. I recommend 
the Rocliedale plan as a basis for cooper- 
ative buying, but believe each community 
will have to modify its beginning accord- 
ing to local conditions. 

It is a very curious fact that in towns, 
counties. States, and even in the great 
Federal Government, there is a lack of 
concentration, and indeed nmch comi>e- 
tition, in the purchase of the same class of 
goods or materials. There is no reason 
why a city or a State, or the Government 
itself, should not have one central pur- 
chasing agency, thus reducing overhead 
expenses as well as com{>etition between 



various departments. I hesitate to state 
how much saving there would be in such 
an operation. But the cost of government 
would vastly decrease. The savings alone 
would help amortize a large part of the 
outstanding obligations in a reasonable 
period. 

During the war we had evidence of 
what the avoidance, even to a limited ex- 
tent, of competition between the various 
departments in buying meant to the Gov- 
ernment. The elimination of competi- 
tion between the Allied and Associated 
Governments in neutral markets through 
one collective buyer saved them many 
hundreds of millions of dollars. The total 
saving to our Government by a system 
that was not functioning perfectly — it 
was being gradually improved when the 
armistice was signed — aggregated vast 

sums. 

Urban Distribution 

There is another phase of the problem 
of distribution which the city dweller 
may have to undertake and solve and 
that is the handling of products in the 
city. It has been claimed by many that 
the supervision of the marketing of coal, 
milk and bread is a matter of almost as 
much municipal concern as the super- 
vision of water, light and street car serv- 
ice. It is in the transfer of products from 
the farm to the city dweller that the 
greatly increased price occurs. This, al- 
though vital to the farmer, is more the 
city dweller's problem. Of course, the 
whole question of marketing and distri- 
bution is vitally afiPected by transporta- 
tion. 

I could elaborate and go into greater 
detail in all these matters. But I have 
endeavored to make this statement as 
short as possible. The views outlined 
herein are presented for the considera- 
tion of those who are much more familiar 
with production and marketing. I have 



discussed them with many who are fa- 
miliar with the subject, and I am convinced 
that they are practical and feasible. 

My investigations have led me to the 
conclusion that the farmer at present 
gets less results for his labor than any 
other member of the community. From 
this statement, I would except only the 
great teaching fraternity, and in that I 
include both educational and religious 
teachers. 

I believe the things I have suggested 
can be done and should be done in the 
interest of the whole community. Fur- 
ther, they are only impossible to those 
who will not have them done. Some of 
them are now under advisement and con- 
templation not only by the Federal Gov- 
ernment, but by many of the States and 
farm organizations. If they are desirable, 
it requires only united effort to bring them 
to a successful conclusion. 

We sometimes hear much about the 
farmer's great profits, and his happier 
lot. The movement from the farms to the 
city suflBciently refutes this. 

In closing, let me say that in working 
for a solution of this most important 
matter, we shall not find it either in an 
Aladdin's lamp or in any form of leger- 
demain. The only legislation needed will 
be that which grants the farmer an equal 
opportunity by opening wide all avenues 
of marketing, and for cooperative effort. 

The great difficulty heretofore, it seems 
to me, has been the fact that the farmer 
has not been able to organize properly. 
But my contact with the movement for 
the improvement of agricultural condi- 
tions, has convinced me that there has 
been developed the type of men who can 
successfully organize and direct the farm- 
ers in their efforts. 

Yours very truly, 

(Signed) Bkrnard M. Baruch. 



APPENDIX 



Excerpts from 

'Fundamental Principles of Cooperation in Agriculture' 

By G. Harold Powell 



"A cooperative association is one in 
which the members form an agency 
through which they conduct their own 
business for their greatest mutual advan- 
tage. To be cooperative, it must be 
formed of producers exchisively, and man- 
aged by them, and the benefits nmst be 
returned to them in proportion to the 
patronage of each. The capital necessary 
to create the agency and its facilities 
should be contributed by the members in 
proportion to the use which each makes of 
it. Also, the capital contributions of each 
member should be kept progressively pro- 
portional to the individual shipments, or 
purchases, or other uses made of the 
agency, as nearly as this may be done." . . 

"There is a growing recognition of the 
economic need of organization by pro- 
ducers. The farmer, especially the small 
land owner, can no longer deal with his 
business problems as an individual be- 
cause he now has to cope with organized 
industries in the production, distribution, 
and sale of his crops. If he is to meet 
these problems successfully in the future, 
he must join with his neighbors in forming 
an organization through which they can 
solve their common problems coopera- 
tively, and he must have laws provided 
that will enable him to do this." . . . 

"Experience shows us that a farmers' 
association that has been organized under 
the general stock-corporation laws is on an 
unstable foundation, not only because the 
stock can not be controlled, but also be- 
cause of conflicts that may arise between 
the stockholders and the members." . . . 



"Unless a cooperative association of 
producers is adequately and soundly 
financed by its own meml>ers, it invites 
disaster. Two kinds of capital are usually 
required: A permanent capital for build- 
ings or other facilities and a working 
capital from which to advance money to 
the members before the returns are re- 
ceived from the crops, and to meet the 
running expenses of the organization.". . . 

"A cooperative organization, if it is to 
be permanently successful, must grow out 
of economic necessity and must crystallize 
around a specific economic question. The 
reason for its existence nnist lie in some 
vital service which it is able to perform if 
it is to have strength enough to live in the 
face of the comi)etition to which it will be 
instantly subjected. It will have to com- 
pete with existing organizations and this 
comi)etition will be directed toward its 
elimination. It will be vigorously attacked 
and every conceivable form of misrepre- 
sentation will be leveled against it, and 
every weapon known to competition, fair 
or unfair, will i)e used to put it out of 
existence." . . . 

"A cooperative organization should 1)6 
founded on a si>ecialized crop. The l>est 
results are obtained in co«.)|>eration when 
an organization is founded to handle a 
sp)ecial crop and when the locality in 
which it operates is comparatively limited 
in area. When he steps outside his sphere 
as a producer, the average farmer does 
not often succeed except in the special 
agricultural industries that have been de- 
veloped by men of unusual experience 



and ability. Since each industry has its 
own individual problems to solve, its 
special difficulties to overcome, and its 
particular trade practices and connections 
with which to deal, an indiscriminate or- 
ganization of growers is generally very un- 
satisfactory in practical results." . . . 

"A large cooperative movement should 
be founded on independent local units 
which, for greater business efficiency, fed- 
erate and form an agency through which 
they handle their common problems. This 
means that each unit builds a packing 
house or provides other facilities, employs 
a manager, installs the necessary equip- 
ment — the growers themselves thereby 
owning and directing their local units. 
The central agency is the cooperative 
whole and represents the personnel of the 
combined societies in their business and 
public relationships, but it must never be 
lost sight of that the central body must 
be representative of active, independent 
units, rather than an organization which 
owns and controls them." . . . 

"State-wide corporations are being at- 
tempted in which the farmer becomes a 
stockholder. The central association then 
owns the equipment and facilities of each 
local unit and manages them, the farmer 
thereby becoming a part owner in local 
facilities all over his state. It would be 
impossible to overemphasize the unsound- 
ness of such a movement from the cooper- 
ative point of view or the lack of stability 
which it presents as a business undertak- 
ing. This instability is due to the fact 
that no man takes as much interest or be- 
comes as active in a situation removed 
from him as he does in his own local, in- 
dividual affairs. It is necessary, in order 
to avoid confusion, to point out here that 
there may be cases in which, by establish- 
ing one or more general plants, under the 
management of the central association 
for the final finishing of their product, a 
group of local units may be spared the 
expense of each establishing a similar 



plant. In that case it is apparent that 
the central association has merely be- 
come more serviceable to its local units 
and has in no way attempted to assume 
control over them. 

"The activities of the central agency 
will, obviously, embrace all matters too 
large to be handled by the local units. It 
will, naturally, represent the local units 
in creating a national sales agency; in 
acquiring timber lands for the manufac- 
ture of box material; in advertising the 
product to the consumer under a trade 
mark under which the produce shall be 
sold and in establishing grading rules to 
cover the use of the trade mark; in handl- 
ing transportation matters or legislation 
directly affecting them and in all other 
common problems that are connected 
with the primary purposes of the local 
units. But the central organization should 
never do those things for the local units 
which they can do efficiently for them- 
selves. Rather should its underlying mo- 
tive be to help the local units in the 
handling of their own problems ; it should 
coordinate their activities, assist the 
weaker associations to grow, and, in its 
capacity as representative of their per- 
sonnel as a group, give their industry 
dignity and business standing in the state 
and nation generally. It should never be 
overlooked that the strength of a coopera- 
tive federation lies in the vitality of its 
local units and that a central agency, 
formed in this manner, can be no stronger 
than its individual components." . . . 

"There is no way in which the com- 
munity spirit can so well be developed as 
by the formation of locally controlled 
units. The product of each community 
differs from that of every other because 
of climate, soils, altitude, or other environ- 
mental factors, and such community char- 
acteristics should be a local asset and 
should not be confused with that of any 
other locahty." . . . " Each community 



10 



will become known by the quality of its 
produce and should use a separate brand 
of identification. This local brand will 
supplement the brand — or possibly the 
trade mark — of the central agency and 
will be the means by which the trade 
identifies the quality of the produce of 
difiFerent localities, while the brand of the 
central agency will become known to the 
public generally." . . . 

"The establishment of uniform grades 
for agricultural produce is one of the most 



important questions confronting Ameri- 
can agriculture." . . . 

"The future of cooperation rests not 
only upon the ability with which growers 
handle their business problems, but upon 
how well they meet the present, vital 
questions which are leading to world-wide 
social and economic unrest. A coopera- 
tive organization can not live for itself 
alone. It must scrupulously fulfill its 
public or social relationship as well as its 
relationship to its own members." 



11 



I 



PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 
CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 



UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 



HD 
1765 
B3 
1920 



Baruch, Bernard Kennes 

Putting farming on a 
modern bfsis. 



