
a ^^ 










r • • • > 




X c°* 



>* o *^Pf^ 9 *• Xu V 













•♦O, 









5 1 
V 



•*b^ 
















# * 



■tfcnJ 





% C "° <^ % 















^ ♦' 









X *£*& ^ '• • •* jr X, *^W* ■ 

























; »Pv 



















9* ♦•••* 



s, 



S *4&\ <<°/^k> J?4fe\ < 
><u. --v K^r///^^* %& <; » <s^\un^* ^ -v* flea //&*?■» ^& & 






W 



<£<&> 



;• ^ v ^ 












THE AKT 

OF 

NAMING DISHES 

on 

BILLS OF FARE 



By 

L. Schumacher, 
1.10,000 



NEW YORK 

CULINARY PUBLISHING CO. 
1920 



<A1 



COPYRIGHT 

1920 

by 

L. SCHUMACHER 



All Rights Reserved 



F fB2l 1220 



5 6 I 9 9 



'wo 






TO 
HENRY C. F. GOSSLEK 



Preface 

This little work is written for the pro- 
gressive element in the hotel and restaurant 
profession because of the fact that the menus 
and bills of fare are, to a great extent, neither 
intelligible to the server nor the served. There- 
fore, a method of naming dishes will be offered 
in the following pages, which I hope will be 
satisfactory to all concerned — proprietors, 
employees and guests. There is no doubt that 
this way of naming dishes is the only effective 
method of reforming and doing away with the 
medly that now generally exists. It must be 
understood that a plain and intelli- 
gible menu and bill of fare is 
exactly the same as an attrac- 
tive advertisement and has the 
same value of silent salesman- 
ship. The author is sure that the system, if 
carried out, will also avoid most of the food 
waste wiiich now occurs, because it eliminates 
the sending back of dishes by guests and the 
spoiling of goods in stock. This, on account of 
the many patrons who order without knowledge 
of what the names of dishes represent and in- 
versely there are many dishes which have names 
unintelligible to guests and therefore are not 
ordered. In particular table d'hote dinners 
would not have the immense waste, and many 
millions which are now lost could be saved. 
Next to these advantages, there are others which 
should not be underestimated. Waiters, wait- 



resses, etc., will be relieved of the study regard- 
ing names of dishes which, as at present, can 
never be studied to perfection because the medly 
is too great. The attendants will have to deal 
with only such names as are plain and intelli- 
gible to everybody. This will make them better 
waiters, and in a shorter time. Translators 
will have much easier work. Instead of going 
through a thick volume, the necessary culinary 
names in several languages can be given in a 
booklet of a size that fits the waistcoat pocket, 

because all style names (in style, a la 

) which makes the culinary languages 

so confusing and difficult, are considered as 
secondary, and the waiter or waitress does not 
need to bother with them, when the principle 
ingredients and kinds of preparations are given. 

This work also is a precursor of a series 
of culinary cyclopeadical dictionaries which will 
be published in six volumes : 

English - French and French - English 
English - Spanish and Spanish - English, 
English - German and German - English. 
French - Spanish and Spanish - French. 
French - German and German - French. 
Spanish - German and German - Spanish. 

That this little work may contribute to 
greater clarity and simplicity is the main desire 
of the writer, because in the naming of dishes 
there is so much to be improved which would be 
mutually beneficial. 

THE AUTHOR 



NEW YORK CITY 



Contents 



<*^. 



Preface 5 

Key to tfce Signs - _ _ > 8 

Intelligible and Unintelligible Names of Dishes 9 

Advantages of having Intelligible Names on 

Bills of Fare _... _ 9 

Instances „ _ _ _ 12 

Short Names 16 

Names that are too long _ _ 19 

Rules for the Naming of Dishes ~ 20 

Foreign Names on English Menus and Bills of Fare 21 
Are Foreign Names of Dishes easily understood? 29 
Are all Domestic Names Understood? 82 

Bills of Fare in more than one language „ _ Sk 

The Abbreviation of Names - 62 

The Meaning of the Personal Nouns, Geographical 

Names, Titles, etc _...._ 69 

Style Designations „ * _ 76 

Concluding Words, Mainly for the 

Compilers of the Bills of Fare 106 

Rules of Grammar of Four Languages 115 

The Using of Adjectives 123 

List of Adjectives - 128 

The Plural of the French and Spanish Words 132 

Punctuation _ 133 

Using Big and Small Capital Letters 135 

The Singular and Plural on Table Cards 136 

The Naming of Table Cards in Four Languages 137 

French Words most commonly used with the 
Preposition "with" 139 



Key to the Signs 



( ) A paranthesis at the end of a word in 

dicates the singular and plural: 



Plum(s) 


Plum 


Plums 


Potato (es) 


Potato 


Potatoes 


Pomme(s) 


Ponune 


Pommes 


de terre 


de terre 


de terre 


Crevette ( s ) 


Crevette 


Crevettes 



( ) 



s,e,es. 



One or more words in paranthesis at 
the end or in the middle of a translation 
means that such can be used for the fore- 
going word: Yeal Cutlet (cut, collop) = 
Veal cutlet, Veal cut, Veal collop ; Crabes 
conserves (en boite) = Crabes conserves, 
Crabes en boite, etc. 

Words or part of words between two 
vertical lines means that they are often 
left out on bills of fare. For instance: 
haricot for haricot \de mouton\ and cod 
for cod | fish | . etc. 

This and similar given letters indicate 
the different endings of the adjectives, 
etc. 



frit, s, e, es. 
fritjo, s, a, as. 

Singular - Masculine 
frit 
frito 
faux 
hollandais 

Singular - Feminine 
frite 
frit a 
fausse 
hollandaise 



Faux, -, fausse, s. 
hollandais, -, e, es. 

Plural - Masculine 
frits 
fritos 
faux 
hollandais 

Plural - Feminine 
frites 
frit as 
fausses 
hollandaises 



Intelligible and Unintelligible 
Names of Dishes 



Advantages of having Intelligible Names 
on Bills of Fare 



*^. 



In almost any restaurant complaints re- 
garding slow service are often heard. Some of 
these complaints are undoubtedly unjust, as 
there are certain dishes which cannot possibly 
be as hastily prepared as the guests sometimes 
wish; but there are many cases where delays 
occur which could be easily avoided. Some of 
the reasons may be due to the delay in forward- 
ing the orders in the pantry or kitchen, incompe- 
tence of a waiter, etc., but in most cases it is 
caused by the unsatisfactory naming of dishes. 
Much time is wasted when the waiters are ques- 
tioned by guests as to what this or that is, and 
what a certain name of dish means. And we 
often find that waiters cannot give satisfactory 
answers or that they have to inquire in the kit- 
chen or of the headwaiter, captain, etc. Ex- 
plaining the names of dishes to the guests 
naturally takes up much time. The time lost 
is not of so much consideration when there are 



10 The Art of Naming Dishes 

only a few guests in the dining room and the 
guests as well as the waiters have time to spare, 
but during certain hours of the day when the 
dining rooms are filled with guests, every minute 
is valuable and has to be used to the best ad- 
vantage. Quick service is one of the main fac- 
tors in the proper conducting of restaurants and 
hotels, and can be much improved if the names 
of dishes on bills of fare are given in clear con- 
cise words so that a guest does not need to ask 
their meaning. Easily understood bills of fare 
have this advantage: that a guest can give an 
immediate order, and the waiter can forward 
dishes more quickly and thereby be at liberty 
to attend to other guests that are waiting. This 
will make it possible for the employees to take 
care of more customers at the same time, the 
guests will be better pleased, and the place will 
be recommended more because good and quick 
service are to a large extent the basis of a good 
reputation — a feature always sought by the 
progressive hotel and restaurant manager. 

In serving table d'hote the mistake of 
offering menus which are not easily understood, 
is just as great as when serving a la carte. A 
party of guests taking their places at a table 
will first reach for the menu and it is a fact that 
most guests are disappointed and make un- 
favorable remarks when they see dishes with 
foreign names on the card. A member of the 
party may ask his neighbor the meaning of 
strange names, and the neighbor seldom knows, 
while others, after a short study of the menu, 
put back the card because it means very little 
or nothing to them. A few may take menus in 
a foreign language as self-evident because in 
their estimation it shows a high class of estab- 



Intelligible and Unintelligible Names of Dishes 11 

lishment, and is fashionable, Ion ton, though 
they may not know the meaning. In fact the 
majority of guests do not know what kind of 
dishes are going to be served, but have to wait 
until it is handed to them, and it often happens 
that they do not even know what they are eating. 
And when their favorite dish is served which 
they did not recognize on the menu, they may 
already have partaken so freely of other dishes 
that they cannot enjoy it any more. There are 
dishes, however, which cannot be named satis- 
factorily for all guests but these are few and 
we will give more attention to them later on. 
We must also consider that there are guests who 
only eat very digestible food and who dare not 
eat certain dishes at all. By not knowing what 
will be served the guests cannot select dishes 
to their taste, but have to take what is offered 
by the waiter. Therefore a clear menu is ab- 
solutely necessary, as there are certain garnish- 
ed dishes in which it is hard to specify the in- 
gredients. Where the portions are served in- 
dividually one may often notice that many 
dishes are taken from the table untouched, or 
perhaps have been merely tasted. As with a 
la carte orders the waiter is told to exchange 
them for other dishes. Not only is time lost 
in this way but much food is also wasted. This 
would rarely happen if the menus and bills of 
fare were couched in a language which could 
be easily understood by the guests. Fortified 
with the knowledge of what the bills of fare 
consisted, the guests would be more anxious to 
obtain the delicacies suitable to their palate, 
and take their meals with greater satisfaction. 
A clear menu is like a good soup before a good 
meal; a fine indicator of what is to follow. The 
giver of an entertainment who will lay stress 



12 



The Art of Naming Dishes 



upon serving his guests with an elegant, tasty 
meal, will also take pains to render the different 
dishes in words which are intelligible to every- 
body. If this is not the purpose of table-cards 
then why have them? Are they only to be treat- 
ed like Chinese newspapers? 

For Example: 

To particularize and to show what is 
understood by intelligible and uninintelligible 
names of dishes, we quote a few instances. Let 
us consider the soups. 

French : 
Potages clairs. 



Clear soups. 

Bouillon soups; 
Bouillon ; 
Meat soups. 

Consomme soups; 
Consommes. 
Thickened soups. 

Puree soups; 
Strained soups. 

Cream soups. 
Vegetable soups. 
Fish soups. 
Wine soups. 
Fruit soups. 
Water soups. 
Milk soups. 
Beer soups. 



Potages de bouillons; 
Bouillons. 

Potages de consommes; 
Consommes. 
Potages lies. 

Potages passes ; 
Potages tamis ; 
Potages a la puree. 

Potages a la crenve. 
Potages de legumes. 
Potages de poissons. 
Soupes au vin. 
Soupes de fruits. 
Soupes a Feau. 
Soupes de (au) lait. 



Soupes a la biere. 
The foregoing names of the various class- 
es of soups show that each one is entirely differ- 
ent in form and contents. But the forms and 
contents of the soups are not sufficient to in- 
dicate their make up. In most cases the names 



Intelligible and Unintelligible Names of Dishes 13 

of the principle ingredients (elements) which 
are used must be mentioned to mark the differ- 
ent tastes. A beef consomme with meat balls 
is different in taste from a chicken consomme 
with vegetables, and so is a puree soup of peas 
different from a puree soup of beans. 

Now, on many bills of fare one will often 
meet with names which cannot claim distinct- 
ness. For instance : Soup in Italian 
style or Italian soup. Most guests 
will ask what kind of soup it is. Italian 
or in Italian style does not give 
any explanation at all. There are meat soups, 
fish soups, thickened soups, rice soups, etc., and 
each one can be prepared in Italian style. Ac- 
cordingly the soup must be named more distinct- 
ly, as, for instance, Chicken soup in 
Italian style, Rice soup in 
Italian style, etc. If abbreviated 
names are used then the abbreviation must not 
be done at the expense of distinctness. It 
would be better to abbreviate in Italian 
s t y 1 e ' to Italian style or simply 
Italian. In this case a comma must take 
the place of the omitted i n and the names 
of the different soups would read as follows: 
Consomme, Italian; Fish soup, 
Italian; Rice soup, Italian; 
Tomato cream soup, Italian; etc. 

The same holds good with Danish 
soup and hundreds of others. There are 
several soups in Danish style and the best 
known one is a chicken cream soup. Therefore, 
Chicken cream soup, Danish. 

C hevreuse sou p. The soup is 
named after a person by name of Chevreuse. 



14 The Art of Naming Dishes 

As this name is written it leads to the 
belief that the soup is composed of a foreign in- 
gredient which is called "chevreuse", and it is 
sometimes accepted as such. The name cannot 
be found in a small dictionary or cyclopeadia, 
but there is a similar word given namely cheo- 
rciiil. meaning roe. Some people may think 
the personal name is a mistake in spelling, be- 
cause we sometimes see Ghevreuil soup givea 
f or C h e v r e u s e soup, although this has 
nothing to do with r|oe-venison soup. 
The correct way of writing would be : Soup 
in Chevreuse style or Soup, 
Chevreuse. But this name is not suffici- 
ently clear for bills of fare, as it does not say 
what kind of a soup it is. There are several 
soups named after Chevreuse. One of them 
consists of fish-broth, sometimes combined with 
a little meat broth, cream, slices of cucumber, 
cheese and fish-balls. The fish-broth is the 
principal element of the soup, and therefore it 
can be called fish soup. That it contains a 
little meat broth, a little cream and a few slices 
of cucumber, matters but very little; just as 
well as a little milk and a few roasted bread 
cubes may be in pea soup. The former will 
always remain a fish soup as the latter will 
remain pea soup. The main contents of the 
fish soup are the fish-balls. This can be men- 
tioned (although it is not absolutely necessary) 
as the name fish soup gives sufficient explana- 
tion as far as the character is concerned, and 
the name Chevreuse indicates the ingredients 
of the soup. Therefore :Fish soup, Chev- 
reus e. 

As with soups so it is with all other 
dishes. Chicken, Indian, stvle. A 



Intelligible and Unintelligible Names of Dishes 15 

dish consisting of boiled chicken with curry 

sauce and rice is often so called. That the curry 

is a compound spice, which comes from India, 

does not give us the right to call the whole meal 

after the home of the curry, unless it is named 

first with the principal ingredients and make 

ups. All dishes which contain curry are just 

as much liked as disliked, and therefore the 

spice must be mentioned. A guest might send 

back the dish not knowing that it contained 

curry. The proper name for the dish would 

be Chicken in curry with rice; 

Curried chicken with rice; 

Chicken in curry sauce with 

race, or Chicken with curry 

sauce and Irice. Also Curry of 

chicken with rice and Chicken 

curry with frice is right because in the 

culinary language the name does not mean the 

spice alone but could be given to any dish cooked 

in curry or served with curry sauce. So named, 

the various styles can be indicated with style 

designations. 

Y e a 1, Marengo is another one 
of the thousands of difficult names which appear 
on bills of fare. Some guests who have eaten 
the dish and who know what this name means 
will be satisfied with it, but others will undoubt- 
edly ask what kind of a dish it is and what it 
is like. They want to have an explanation as 
to how the veal is prepared. The veal may be 
fried, boiled, or stewed, etc., but to the guest it 
is a riddle. Veal, I a r e n g o is made 
of cubed veal, chopped onions, charlottes, herbs, 
etc., and the whole is stewed over a fire. This 
means that it is a kind of a stew, or better per- 
haps, a ragout. Therefore, Yeal ragout, 



16 The Art of Naming Dishes 

Marengo Is the proper name. The simple 
word ragout clears up the whole mystery 
surrounding the name Veal, Marengo, 
and every guest would be satisfied when reading 
it, as everybody understands the word ragout. 



Short Names 

When abbreviating the names on the 
bills of fare, it has been customary to omit many 
words that have a necessary and direct bearing 
on the meaning of the term. Consomme 
with shredded vegetables is seen 
to read Julienne soup whereas it 
should read as above or Consomme, Jul- 
ienne. Breaded veal cutlet (cut, 
collop) , Vienna is seen to read Wiener 
Schnitzel and Chicken cream 
soup, Soubise is Soubise soup, 
etc. By such abbreviations or wrong transla- 
tions the items naturally lose much of their 
value when presented to the guest on the bills 
of fare. There are indeed some dishes with 
"unintelligible" names that have long been 
known and with which the guests are familiar, 
but these are comparatively very few. Proper 
names are but sorry indications of the make up 
of dishes, and a guess along these lines as to the 
composition of same dishes would bring sad 
dissapointment, It is not at all a difficult 
matter to so arrange the wording of a bill of 
fare that the guest may easily understand the 
same, without unduly lengthening the descrip- 
tion of the particular items recorded. For in- 
stance, would not the guest look with more favor 
on the second names of dishes than the first 



Intelligible and Unintelligible Names of Dishes 17 

shown here though the same dishes are quoted 
in each case. (The first given menu is a copy 
of an original which should not be taken as an 
example of a perfect set up, but is simply given 
here as an instance as to the naming). 



1. 



Soup Royal 

Salmon a la Maryland 

Roastbeef Flamish 

Veal Fricandeau a la Jardiniere 

Chicken Pie American 

Crabs Varennes 

Poularde English 

Salad Compot 

Celery Royal 

Ice Alhambra Fruits 

Assorted Cheese 

. Coffee 



Chicken Consomme, Royal 
Boiled Salmon, Butter Maryland 

Roast Beef 

White Cabbage Bacon 

Larded, braised Veal w. various Vegetables 

Warm Chicken Pie, American 

Crabs with Jelly, Remoulade Sauce 

Stuffed, roast Caponized Chicken 

Lettuce Salad Preserved Pears 

Baked Celery with Madeira Sauce 

Alhambra Ice Bomb. 

Pastry 

Roquefort, Gorgonzola, Gouda Cheese 

Fruits Coffee 



Intelligible and Unintelligible Navies of Dishes 19 



Names that are too long 

That menus and bills of fare sometimes 
bear names which are too elaborate and detailed 
can often be noticed. There is really nothing 
to say against this practise, but it quite fre- 
quently happens that secondary things are men- 
tioned and the principal thing is left out Take 
for instance : 

Beef with green Olive Sauce 

Cauliflower in French Style 

Potatoes a la Serpentin 

It would be better to say : — 

Eoast Beef, Olive Sauce 

Creamed Cauliflower, French 

Fried Spiral Potatoes 

<*^ 

Pork with white Puree of Onions 
Consomme with cubes of Carrots 

An Improvement would be: — 

Koast Pork w. Onion Puree (Mashed Onions) 
Consomme with Carrots 

The secondary designations, "with green," 
with white, cubes of, etc., are not necessary at 
all. It is just the same to a guest whether he 
receives green olive sauce or any other, white 
puree of onions or colored, cubes of carrots, 
sliced or whole. 



20 The Art of Naming Dishes 



Rules for the Naming of Dihess 

In naming dishes two main factors are 
recommended: to mention their main ingredi- 
ents and the way they are prepared. Secondary 
designations, snch as geographical or personal 
names can then follow. Let ns consider the 
sonps. Before giving them a second designation, 
the main elements, snch as meats, vegetables, 
etc., should be taken into consideration, as there 
are meat soup, vegetable soup, frnit sonp, etc. 
When sonps are prepared mainly or entirely 
out of a certain kind of meat, vegetable, etc., 
they have to be named as chicken soup, pea 
soup, tomato soup, cherry soup, etc. When 
soups are prepared in a particular way they 
must be called pea puree soup (strained pea 
soup), chicken cream soup, thick tomato soup, 
beef consomme, clear turtle soup, etc. All in- 
gredients with few exceptions are considered as 
substitute designations and are seldom mention- 
ed, but expressed by style names as Choiseul 
style, Koyal style, Manhattan style, etc. 
Simple soups which contain mainly one ingredi- 
ent like dumplings, semola, etc., can be named 
with their contents as cherry soup w. dumplings, 
wine soup w. semola, etc. That it is absolutely 
necessary to name soups, as other dishes with 
their main ingredients and their manner of pre- 
paration is shown by different soups which have 
the same style of designation as for instance : — 
Clear chicken soup, Choiseul; 
Chicken cream soup, Choiseul; 
Chicken consomme, Choiseul. If 
they were all called simply Soup, Choi- 



Intelligible and Unintelligible Names of Dishes 21 

s e u 1, one could not tell which kind was meant, 
and there is certainly a big difference between 
each one. 

It is the same with all other dishes. First 
mention the main ingredients (elements) and 
then the manner of preparation as boiled, baked, 
roasted, braised, stewed, rolled, mixed, filled, 
stuffed, 'arded, etc., before any minor title is 
given. An exception to this are dishes which 
have names that already include a certain style 
of preparation such as fricassee, stew, ragout, 
etc., but the principal element (ingredient) 
should be given as chicken fricassee, veal fricas- 
see, veal ragout, beef ragout, etc. Also other 
dishes such as peas, carrots, spinach, etc., when 
prepared plain, do not need any special desig- 
nation as everybody knows they are prepared in 
the plain customary way. If they are prepared 
in a special way, then it is to the advantage of 
every restaurateur to mention it, as for in- 
stance: Creamed carrots, Spinach 
with e g g^ Puree of peas, etc. If 
the preparation is a complicated one so that a 
short name cannot be given besides that of the 
main contents of a dish, then the proper names 
should be quoted as : Carrots, English: 
Spinach, Monroe; etc. 



Foreign Names on English Menus 
and Bills of Fare 

The names on menus and bills of fare 
have often called forth sarcastic comment and 
indeed, much of this criticism has been justified. 
Several reasons for applying foreign names have 



22 The Art of Naming Dishes 

been given. It lias been said that many names 
cannot be translated in a concise form and fur- 
thermore that translations do not properly ex- 
press the meaning of the foreign names. (One 
must admit that a translated term is always 
better understood by the average guest than a 
foreign term even if the translation does not ex- 
actly express the meaning.) The real reason 
is that many foreign names, especially French 
names, have been familiar to all professionals 
for a long time and the translations of such 
words make a strange impression on them and 
are therefore not used. If translated names 
were introduced by the leading hotels and res- 
taurants, after a time nobody would find any- 
thing unusual in them. It depends on one's will 
to see or not to see the meaning in a sensible 
translation. People recognise in Liberty 
cabbage the well known German "Saue r- 
k r a u t". This proves that not only transla- 
tions but even new names can be introduced if 
the will is there. The application Sour- 
c r jo u t would be the correct one, and if used 
there would be no trouble in recogrising the 
German word "Sauerkrau t". It is foolish 
to introduce new names for foreign terms when 
a translation is easily found, but it is wise tioi 
use translated names if the translation is a 
sensible one. 

But nevertheless there are names which 
should not be translated, as these are 
given to entirely new and classified dishes, just 
as new names are given to newly discovered 
chemical compounds or other inventions, for 
instance as in fricassee, ragout, mayonnaise, 
etc. Since no names can be taken in the vocab- 
ulary of the English language, proper accents 



Intelligible and Unintelligible Names of Dishes 23 

(eeen), they have to be omitted. In the Ger- 
man and Spanish language they do not omit 
accents entirely but write the words according 
to their pronunciation, which latter feature 
would, of course, not be necessary for the most 
of foreign words to be used in the English langu- 
age. 

Also style expressions should not be 
translated, such as for instance : Potatoes, 
liberty fried .for Fried pota- 
toes, German (German fried 
potatoes). It is great to be patriotic but 
patriotism must not lead to extremities. Hun- 
dreds of styles of preparation are named after 
German states and cities, and to change these 
style names would make the culinary language 
a greater medley than it already is. Some time 
ago there was quite a discussion about changing 
the name of Maitre dliotel. It is hard to 
pronounce and, as a matter of fact, the duties 
of a Maitre dliotel here are very different 
from that of his colleagues in France. In this 
case it would be advisable not to translate the 
above title but to find a new name. Propos- 
ing the name Service Manager, I am 
quite sure that many will say that the title does 
not fully express the duties of a Maitre d'hotel 
of to-day. If we want anew and short 
title that expresses fully the duties, we will 
never find one, but if we make up our minds to 
substitute the name Service Ma n a g e r 
for that of Maitre d'hotel we will meet with 
no difficulty. If the foolish new name of 
Liberty cabbage can be accepted in 
place of 8 a ti erkraut why not put Ser- 
vice Manager, or another short name in 
place of that of the Maitre dliotel of to-day. 



24 The Art of Naming Dishes 

In cases where it would not be advisable 
to translate certain terms into English, there 
are still many other names which could be used 
to better advantage. And yet we continue to 
see names of dishes on bills of fare that give a 
poor idea of these particular dishes. The ma- 
jority of these names are in French. 

' It is not necessary for one to be anti- 
French to advocate the use of plain English, 
and intelligible names of dishes on table cards. 
The Avorld is greatly indebted to French culin- 
ary art, but as far as the naming of dishes is 
concerned the hotel and restaurant guest must 
not be ignored. The guests are the ones who 
pay for the meals and therefore have a certain 
claim, and are entitled to demand clear, intelli- 
gible menus and bills of fare. Besides it is to 
the advantage of every host, for it prevents un- 
necessary questions on the part of the guests, 
who generally do not understand foreign names. 
Every merchant advertises his goods in as plain 
and intelligible language as possible, and so 
demonstrates all advantages to his customers, 
a business method which should be followed by 
the hotel and restaurant men. 

Once more, as given in the preface : All 
those engaged in the restaurant trade do or 
should know (though some don't ivant to) that 
a plain and intelligible menu and bill of fare 
is exactly the same as an attractive advertise- 
ment in a magazine j or any other paper > and has 
the same value of silent salesmanship. 

Let us quote further instances where 
foreign names appear on menus and bills of 
fare and produce again the same dishes intelli- 



Intelligible and Unintelligible Names of Dishes 25 

gible. ( May it be understood that the following 
first is a true copy of a menu but not given here 
as a masterpiece of a combination of dishes but 
simply as an instance as to the naming) . 



Melonnee 

Petits Pains de Caviar aux Huitres 

Tortue verte claire 

Saumon with filets a la d'Orly 

Epaule of Lamb a la Montmorency 

Filet of Beef Robert 

Supreme de Pintade 

Asperges, Jambon fume 

Sorbet au Kirsch 

Nesselrode Pudding Garvais 

Demi-Tasse 

2. 

Musk Melon 

Caviar on Rolls with Oysters 

Clear green Turtle Soup 

Boiled Salmon with baked Trout Filets, Orly 

Larded, stuffed Shoulder of Lamb, Montmorency 

Tenderloin of Beef, Robert 

Supreme of glazed Guinea Fowl 

Asparagus with smoked Ham 

Sherbet with Cherry Brandy 

Chestnut Pudding, Nesselrode 

Gervais Cheese 

Coffee 



Intelligible and Unintelligible Names of Dishes 27 

It is a shame to disguise wonderful dishes 
like these in the first instance, by names which 
cannot be understood by most people. The ap- 
petizing and spontaneous effect that such a 
meal would have upon guests, if presented in an 
intelligible manner, is altogether lost. 

There are other reasons why some busi- 
ness men keep foreign names on bills of fare. 
Those who offer their guests plain French cards 
think perhaps that these show a higher class of 
establishment, or they wish to show that real 
French cooking by French cooks is done in their 
kitchens. This may be good in places where the 
majority of guests are French or speak French, 
although an English translation at the side of 
the French card would be far better. That 
French cooking is done in a house can be made 
known to the guests by having a notice to this 
effect printed on the cards. 

Another reason for using French cards 
or partly English - French and other foreign 
names is shown by the words of a man in the 
profession. "I don't wish to give any profes- 
sional secrets away, but "entre nous", do you 
think it easy to sell Irish Stew for 75 
cents, per, when you can sell Navarin d'- 
Agneau a VIrlandaise for a dollar? 
This gentleman does not want to divulge any 
business secret, but gives away the main one to 
some restaurant men without considering that 
the people who are used to paying a good price 
for such a dish do not care so much about ex- 
pense, but gladly would order and pay for it, if 
they knew what it was and if it is well prepar 
ed; some might be looking for this very dish and 
are unable to find it. I would like to ask the 



28 The Art of Naming Dishes 

gentleman if he kept such statistics as are given 
in the following pages? All business men a- 
greeing with this colleague are losers, and 
do not know it. And many do lose, especially 
in restaurants connected w T ith a bar or hotel, or 
both. Some also know that they are losers but 
carelessly do not give it a consideration as long 
as the rooms and bar show a great profit that 
makes more than good the loss in the restaurant. 
How often have I drawn the attention of some 
business men to their loss in the restaurants but 
in the most cases with the unbusinesslike an- 
swer : "I know it, but we make more than good 
the loss on drinks and by renting rooms." I 
wish that bone dry prohibition will never 
take effect but if it should come, thousands of 
restaurant men who connect their business with 
a bar will have to learn all over again, to partly 
make good in the restaurant that which they 
earned before by selling drinks. Other high 
class restaurants without hotel and alcoholic 
drinks do splendidly. Why should not those 
that are connected with a bar? There is a 
reason. Certainly not the intelligible naming 
of dishes as the main factor but in the first line 
excellent and economic cooking and such couched 
on bills of fare in intelligible words. Good 
cooking should not be hidden by foreign names. 
It does not deserve it. And if it is done then 
the business men are poor advertisers. If res- 
taurateurs use foreign names here and there 
because they do not know the right translation 
then there is an excuse. But if one uses foreign 
names simply to get a higher price, then the 
business is not based on high principles. "Peo- 
ple want to be fooled," is often the reply. Put 
the matter to a test by going among guests as 



Intelligible and Unintelligible Names of Dishes 29 

a guest and you will find out. The result will 
be an unexpected one. Those people who want 
to be fooled are few compared to the large num- 
ber of guests who do not, and certainly they do 
not increase the profit when one considers what 
could be sold otherwise. Is the profit larger 
direct or indirect, if 50 portions of Irish stew 
can be sold for 75c. each, instead of 10 portions 
of Navarin (Vagneau a Virlandaise for a dol- 
lar? 



Are Foreign Names of Dishes 
easily understood? 

Next to the excuses already mentioned, 
for using foreign names one often hears the 
statement made that most of the guests under- 
stand them. If we consider that there are even 
domestic names, peculiar to one's country, which 
are not always understood when applied to dish- 
es, we will readily see that in scarcely any in- 
stance is the foreign word permissable. To 
make sure of this I compiled some statistics dur- 
ing my practical activity in the restaurant 
world, of which a few will be given below. 

Half of the dishes were printed in Eng- 
lish and half in French. American and German 
guests with few exceptions speak English. The 
menu in the main was the same after three and 
after six days. It only changed in style desig- 
nation. For instance: Roast Beef, 
American Style changed the third day 
into Aloyau roil a la Tussienne (Roast 
Beef, Tussienne Style) and on the 
sixth dav it was Roast Beef again but 



30 The Art of Naming Dishes 

Lafontaine Style. The change of the 
different style designations were made so as not 
to have a repetition in the eyes of the guests 
after three and six days. The main word in 
this instance was roast beef (Aloyau roti). 
All other dishes also were changed from French 
into English and from English into French on 
following days., That is the dishes named in 
English on the first day were on the bills of 
fare in French on the third day and in English 
again on the sixth day. Then French-named 
dishes on the first day were changed into Eng- 
lish on the third day and so forth. Only lunch 
and dinner was counted. Among 257 guests 
1541 orders were given for meals which were 
written in English, and 346 for those in French 
on the first day. The third day 1403 orders 
came in for English named dishes, which were 
the same in French the first day, and 386 of the 
French named dishes which were the same in 
English on the first day. The sixth day 1390 
English named dishes were given out, and 404 
of those named in French. 

In another case of 112 guests, 69 ordered 
jellied chicken. Two days later when the same 
dish was changed into chaud-froid de poule 
there were only 11 orders, and on the fourth 
day, when it was jellied chicken again 54 orders 
came in forj the same dish. 

Of 190 guests, 63 asked the waiters to 
explain certain dishes on a "mixed" bill of fare 
and only in 14 instances could it be explained 
by the waiters. When the bill of fare was 
changed into plain and clear English 11 people 
asked the waiters and nine correct answers were 
given. Six of the eleven were foreigners who 
did not understand much English. 



Intelligible and Unintelligible Names of Dishes 31 



This proves that foreign names of dishes 
arie not easily understood by the average person, 
and therefore are not ordered. But we will also 
notice that the guests who come to the same res- 
taurant for some time, will become better ac- 
quainted with the meaning of some foreign cul- 
inary expressions and slowly begin to order 
them. If we consider now that there are hun- 
dreds of names on bills of fare in one restaurant 
which are changed daily or from time to time. 
One can imagine how long it will take a guest to 
get acquainted with all of them. In another 
restaurant he again begins to study the special- 
ties of a house where many dishes are the same 
as in the former place but with other names. 
It is an endless study for all - both guests and 
waiters. And now let us consider the new guest 
who enters a restaurant for the first time. Is 
it not the aim of every business man to gain new 
customers? I contend that the majority of all 
new guests come to a restaurant only once, if 
a bill of fare is presented on which the names 
are riddles to them ; especially if they find that 
the served dishes are most familiar to them 
when written in other plain English names. A 
guest who wants to sit down in a first class res- 
taurant is prepaued and will gladly pay a first 
class price for his meal if he knows what he is 
getting; but he does not Avant to be fooled. If 
for instance you read Salade d'Oeufs (Egg 
Salad) and order it and then afterward find 
that it consists of potato salad with three quar- 
ters of a hard boiled egg on top, and two leaves 
of lettuce on the side, and you are charged 50c, 
would you not be disappointed or angry? The 
same happens with a real camouflaged potato 
salad in some places, often called Salade d'- 



32 The Art of Naming Dishes 

oeufs, Americaine (Egg salad, American) 
where the potato salad is covered with thin cut 
slices of eggs. Potato salad with 
boiled egg would be the right name. 
Guests who have such experiences, often do not 
say a word, but depart neven to return again. 

One can often notice that foreign names 
of dishes are shown on bills of fare in large 
letters so as to be more attractive ; but how can 
anything be more enticing than clear and intel- 
ligible language? It is a proven fact that very 
many people naturally do not like to ask for the 
composition of dishes, and it has been remarked 
that those who find unintelligible bills of fare 
always go back to that restaurant where they 
can easily understand what is offered. Besides 
it is surely right and just that each country 
should offer its goods for sale in its own langu- 
age. The country's flag must 
lead and those of other nations 
follow. Thus shoul'd one's own, 
language have precedence. In 
every language there are enough expressions to 
name the principal ingredients of a dish without 
the necessity of resorting to foreign names. 



Are all Domestic Names Understood? 

In the following clippings from an orig- 
inal bill of fare of a high class and prominent 
restaurant in New York we find several names 
which will not be understood by the most Eng- 
lish speaking people. There are : Pigs in 
Blankets; Ho'over's Platter, etc. 
How many will have to ask what these are be- 
fore they order, and how many will neither ask 



Intelligible mid Unintelligible Naming of Dishes 33 

nor order if only these names are given (as is 
sometimes clone) and no explanation. The fol- 
lowing clippings with their detailed explana- 
tions of all style names (a la ) are 

wonderful exceptions in the restaurant world. 
It is perhaps possible that these bills of fare 
with their intelligible names, were to a large 
extent responsible for the great success of the 
house where they were used. 



THE BASE OF OUR SUCCESS 



Our Latest Innovation! 

COMBINATION PLATE DINNERS 

AND 
PLANKED FISH, POULTRY and STEAKS 



<*^. 



Chicken Mushroom Plate Dinner 

Half Broiled Spring Chicken, with Virginia Bacon, Asparagus 
Tips and Broiled Fresh Mushrooms, Stuffed Celery, Crab 
Meat, Hearts of Lettuce with Russian Dressing, Baked 
Potato :. 110 

Individual Planked One Pound Club Bone Steak 1.00 
Service One Person Only. Additional Service, 25c. 

Beefsteak Plate Dinner 

Delicious Tender Beefsteak and Mushroom Sauce, Fried Filet 
of Sole, Fresh Virginia Crab Meat gratinated, Dill Pickles, 
Potato 1.00 

Large Fried Cherrystones, Rockefeller .45 

With Broiled Fresh Mushrooms and Virginia Bacon, under Glass 

Clam Bake Mushroom Plate Dinner 

Half Broiled Spring Chicken, with Broiled Fresh Mushrooms 
and Asparagus Tips, Steamed Soft Clams with Butter 
Sauce, Stuffed Celery, Fried Filet of Sole, Hearts of 
Lettuce with Russian Dressing, Crab Meat gratinated 1.10 

Individual Planked Half Spring Chicken, Sou. Style $1 
Additional Service. 



Shore Plate Dinner 

Broiled Stuffed Lobster, Half; Steamed Soft Clams with 
Butter Sauce, Fresh Virginia Crab Meat gratinated, 
Sliced Tomatoes and Celery 90 

Tenderloin Steak En Casserole, for two, 2.25 



Turkey Plate Dinner 

Roast Vermont Turkey, Stuffed; with Asparagus Tips and 
Cranberry Sauce, Hearts f Lettuce with Russian Dress- 
ing, Steamed Soft Clams with Butter Sauce, Stuffed 
Celery, Fresh Virginia Crab Meat gratinated 1.10 

Planked Supreme Porterhouse 

for two, 2.75; for three, 3.75; for four, 4.75 

Chop Plate Dinner 

Broiled One-Pound Mutton Chop, Fried Filet of Sole, Crab 
Flake gratinated, Stuffed Green Peppers,' Table Celery, 
and Potatoes U5 

Whole Broiled Tenderloin (full filet) Fam. Style 
For Six, 5.00; Planked, 6.50 



DAILY SHIPMENTS FROM THE OCEAN 

Genuine Blue Point Oysters 20-35 

Famous Cape Cod Oysters ...._ _ 25-40 

Selected Little Neck Clams _ - 20-35 

Large Pink Cherrystones _ 25-40 

Lynnhaven Oysters _ 30 

Baket Guilford Soft Clams with Green Peppers and 
Shrimp Salad, Russian Dressing _ _ .50 

Roast Lynhaven Oysters, in Shell, with Virginia 
Bacon and Green Peppers, Shrimp Salad, Russ 
Dressing _ _ _ .50 

Steamed Soft Clams, with Plenty of Prre Clam Broth 
and Butter Sauce „ 50 

Large Oyster Fry, Rockefeller, with Virginia Bacon 
and Broiled Fresh Mushrooms 45 

Pigs in Blankets (Large Oysters, wrapped in Vir- 
ginia Bacon, Roasted with Green Peppers and 
Shrimp Salad, Russian Dressing) 60 

Every Oyster or Clam opened to order. 

Relishes 

Royal Grape Fruit Cocktail 25 

Real Mexican Chili Meat (Chili con Carne) 25 

Shrimp Cocktail „ 30 

Stuffed Celery „.... 30 

Lobster Cocktail _ „ _ 30 

Table Celery 25 



Soups 

Chicken with Leeks (Cooke Leekey) 10 

Tomato Soup 10 

Consomme with Rice ; Chicken Broth in Cup .10 

Clear Green Turtle _ _ 20 

Pure Clam Juice _ 10 

Onions gratinated with Parmesan Cheese 25 



Hoover's Platter 

Veal Steak Bordelaise Sauce 

Crab Meat au Gratin, Lettuce, Tomato, Stuffed 
Green Peppers, Potatoes _ l.Ot 



<©gsi*r gfizte 



Large Oysters Stewed in Pure Cream, Milk and 
Butter _ „.... 45 

Vegetables 

Artichock in Dutch Sauce 25 

Creamed Yellow Turnips „ .20 

Fried Egg Plant .. .20 

String Beans 20 

Sourcrout „ 20 

Spinach 20 

Peas _ .20 

Red Cabbage, Flamande .20 

Mashed O'Brien Potatoes 20 

Lyonese Potatoes, Hashed in Cream, or Hashed Brown 15 

French Fried 15 

Salads 

Lettuce or Romain Saiad ...„ _ 29 

Sliced Tomatoes 1 „ _ 20 

Table Celery 25 

Combination Salad _ 30 

Chicken Salad _ _ - 15 

Grape Fruit Salad 60 

Shrimp Salad 75 

Lobster Salad _.- - 1.10 

Lobster Cocktail . - 60 

Crab Flake Salad _ - - 80 

Cheese 

Lederkranz and Saltines 20 

American _ 25 

Camenbert 30 

Swiss and Pumpernickle .20 

Philadelphia 20 

White or Red Bar-le-duc 40 



Dessert 

Apple Fritters, Lemon Sauce 10 

Marlngue Icecream with French Vanilla Sauce 25 

Assorted French Pastry 10 

Apple, Minced or Peach Pie _ _ .10 

Cheese Cake or Mocha Tart , _.. .15 

Icecseam Cup, Sarah Bernard „ 40 

Baked Apple with Cream 15 

Icecream and Peach or Pineapple Melba 25 

Chestnut Pudding, Nesselrode _ 25 

Coffee or Chocolate Parfeit ~ 25 

English Plum Pudding, Hard and Brandy Sauce 20 

Vanilla, Coffee or Chocolate Ice Cream ...„ 20 

French Vanilla 25 

Hot Chocolate or Melva Sauce _ extra 10c 

Banana Split, Fantasie Style 30 

Turkish Coffee in Percolator for Two .50 

Supreme Coffee per Pot With cream 



jiperial '(Hfl-img 



*^. 



One Pound Mutton Chop in Casserole, Fried Egg Plant 75 

Grilled Sweetbreads with Mushroom Sauce and Green Peas 65 

Selected Lump Crabflakes, gratinated, Morney 75 

Saddle of Rabbit, in Casserole, Red Cabbage Flamande 60 

Breaded Veal Cutlet, Spaghetti Napolitaine 75 

Omelette with Potatoes, Parmesan heese, Savoyan 50 

Schrimp Crabflakes, Soft Clams, Indian in Chafing Dish 90 

Fried Pork Chops, Robert Sauce and Sourcrout 85 

Giant Shrimps, Newburg with Rice, in Casserole 60 

Roast R. I. Turkey, Dressing, Apple Sauce 75 

Planked Salmon Steak, Fulton Market 75 

Broiled Fresh Mushrooms, Va. Bacon _ 90 

Broiled Spanish Mackerel, Butter Sauce 55 

NEW INDIVIDUAL PLANKS 

Planked Single Club Steak, Bouquetierre 1.00 

Half Planked Spring Chicken, Vegetables style 1.00 

Planked Spanish Mackerel, Fulton Market - .80 

Planked Individual Porterhouse, style 1.25 

SPECIALS TO-DAY 

Home Made Corn Beef and Cabbage, Gaked Potatoes 60 

Paprika Chicken, Second Joints, Noodles and Potatoes 60 

Home Made Corn Beef and Cabbage, Baked Potatoes 60 

Baked Newport Sausages, Sourcrout, Mashed Potatoes,. „ 45 

Sauted Rabbit, Provencale with Olives, Vegetables, Potatoes 55 

Fried Large Silver Smelts, Sauce Remoulade ...... - 65 

Steamed Finnan Haddie, Drawn Butter 65 

Giant Shrimps, Creole with Rice in Casserole ... 55 

Boiled Live Codfish, Egg Sauce _ - 50 

Broiled Spanish Mackerel, Paprika Butter 60 

Fried L. I. Scallops, Sauce Tartar 65 

Broiled Kennebec Salmon, Butter Sauce 60 

Supreme of Lemon Sole, Florentine 55 



Steamed Soft Clams, Plenty of Pure Clam Broth, But Sauce 60 
Baltimore Broil: Large Broiled Oysters on Toast, 

with Broiled Fresh Mushrooms and Butter Sauce 60 

Pigs in Blankets: Oysters "Wrapped in Virginia Bacon, 

Roasted w. Green Peppers & Shrimp Salad, Russ Dres'g 70 



Old Neptune is our Fisherman; the Ocean our Reserve! 

CLAMS and OYSTERS 

Every Clam and Oyster is Opened to Order 

Genuine Blue Point Oysters - 20-.35 

Famous Cape Cod Oysters - 25-.40 

Lynnhaven Bay Oysters (large) ~ .30 

Large Pink Cherrystone Clams _ _ - 25-.40 

Selected Little Neck Clams _ 20-.35 

Roast Lynhaven Oysters, in Shell, with Virginia Bacon and 

Green Peppers and Shrimp Salad 50 

Baked Guilford Soft Clams, with Green Peppers and Virginia 

Bacon and Shrimp Salad 50 

Large Oyster Fry, Rockefeller, with Virginia Bacon and 

Shrimp Salad -50 

Broiled Fresh Mushrooms - 45 

Steamed Soft Clams, Free from that Sandy Grit, Served with 

Plenty of Pure Clam Broth and Butter Sauce 50 

Pigs in Blankets, Large Oysters wrapped in Virginia Bacon, 

with Green Peppers and Shrimp Salad 60 

Baltimore Broil, Large Broiled Oysters on Toast, with Vir- 
ginia Bacon and Broiled Fresh Mushrooms 50 

Cherrystone Clams, Fisherman Style, with Green Peppers, 

Virginia Bacon and Shrimp Salad 50 

Oyster Cream Stew, All Large Oysters, Stewed in Milk and 
Cream 40 

We prepare Clams or Oysters 

— any style our Patrons may Suggest 

EVERY CLAM AND OYSTER OPENED TO ORDER 



LOBSTERS 

Fresh every day from Portland, Maine, and Rockland, 
Maine; Boston and Nova Scotia; Are very scarce at 
Present. Temporary Prices. 

Whole Boiled Baby Lobster 90 

Lobster, Newburg, in chafing dish 1.00 1.90 

Lobster, American, in chafing dish 1.00 1.90 

Whole Broiled Baby Lobster 1.00 



Lobster Cocktail „ _ 60 

Lobster Salad _ 69 

Large Broiled LOBSTERS as per request at less than elsewhere 

CRAB FLAKE SPECIALTIES 

Crab Meat gratinated 80 

Crab Meat Cocktail, Tokio „ 50 

Crab Meat Salad _ _ .85 

Crab Flakes Baltimore, with Mushrooms and Green Peppers .85 

Stuffed Deviled Crab, Chili Sauce (1) 40 (2) 75 

Crab Flakes, Newburg, in chafing dish 85 1.50 



Bills of Fare in more than one 
language 



In these days of international travel, 
much more knowledge has been required of per- 
sons employed in the different international 
hotels and restaurants than was formerly the 
case. Along with many other things a know- 
ledge of languages has become necessary in or- 
der to execute the wishes of strangers in a better 
and quicker manner. Experience has proven 
that foreigners prefer to stop at hotels where 
they can make themselves understood in their 
niother-tongue. Some hotelmen started early 
to engage employees versed in languages, and 
this courtesy gave great pleasur(e to the guests 
and brought about wonderful results. The 
guests recommended such hotels wherever they 
went, and many establishments founded an in- 
ternational reputation on this new arrangement. 
Now-a-days there is hardly any international 
hotel or restaurant which does not have a staff 
of employees versed in languages. 

With the universally recognised fact that 
a staff versed in idioms draws and keeps guests, 
is it surprising that the importance of having 
menus and bills of fare in more than one langu- 
age is not more widely recognised. Proportion- 
ally, there are very few establishments, and 
these are praiseworthy exceptions, that have 
such bills of fare. The leading men know the 



Bills of Fare in More than One Language 43 

advantages of such an institution, and they 
never can abolish it without causing displeasure 
to many of their guests. 

Some of the great steamship lines have 
r(ecognised the advantage of bills of fare in more 
than one language. On nearly all of their pas- 
senger steamers there are bills of fare printed 
in two, and even in three, languages. How many 
passengers appreciate and welcome this arrang- 
ement only those can judge who have had the 
opportunity of observing them and of speaking 
to them about it. There is no doubt that pre- 
senting bills of fare in m|ore than one language 
has brought the companies many new customers. 
In hundreds of cases it has been noticed how 
pleasantly surprised are the passengers when 
they step into a dining room for the first time, 
and glance at the bill of fare. Very often the 
stewards are asked if the cards may be kept 
and by the next mail many of these arfc sent to 
friends and relations with letters of praise. How 
much stress some companies lay upon the menu 
is shown by the fact that they have printed 
books for the chief stewards and printers to 
facilitate the translations. 

Besides the already mentioned advan- 
tages of furnishing intelligible menu cards, a 
bill of fare in more than one language makes 
it possible for most of the guests to select dishes 
with ease and without asking questions, and 
consequently provides a quicker service as the 
following example shows. 

Of 708 passengers (Americans, Germans, 
Spaniards), 286 asked what certain dishes were 
like or told the stewards to bring anything that 
was good. In this case there were only English 



44 The Art of Naming Dishes 

bills of fare. Wlien a bill of fare in English, 
German and Spanish was given out, only 43 
questions were asked and the time consumed in 
serving a dinner or lunch, took the stewards 18 
minutes less. 

It is clear that most foreign guests in 
hotels and restaurants of an international char- 
acter, will also appreciate bills of fare in several 
languages as well as the passengers on steamers, 
especially as the hotels furnish homes for most 
of the passengers. The usual reply that there 
are always more passengers on steamers than 
there are foreign guests in international hotels, 
is actually not so ; at least the difference is not 
large in proportion to the capacity of steamers 
and hotels. 

That menus and bills of fare in more 
than one language receive so little attention in 
hotels and restaurants is mainly the fault of 
the erroneous assumption that the waiters are 
versed in languages and therefore the bills of 
fare are not necessary. This, notwithstanding 
the already mentioned disadvantages of waiters 
being questioned by guests. We know that 
steamers also have a staff well versed in langu- 
ages and yet the new arrangement was made 
and proved successful. It is often said that the 
cost of translation and the printing is too high, 
but these expenses are mostly overestimated. 
They are so small that they ought not to be con- 
sidered at all; on the contrary they will bring 
a rich reward. It can easily be explained why 
foreign guests would welcome bills of fare in 
more than one language, all that is necessary 
is to put one's self in the place of a stranger who 
has before him a bill of fare in a language which 



Table Cards In More Than One Language 45 

he does not speak or cannot read, to say nothing 
of the faulty foreign names which often occur. 
That the number of guests without any or a very 
small knowledge of languages is great, is known 
by all professional men engaged in internation- 
al hotels and restaurants. 

When suggesting the printing of bills of 
fare in more than one language, one certainly 
does not expect that each hotel or restaurant 
shall print cards in as many languages as there 
are nationalities represented. This would be 
impossible. In most cases two languages would 
be sufficient, while others perhaps will do good 
to have cards in three languages, either in Eng- 
lish, French, Spanish, or German, etc., according 
to the country in which the establishment is lo- 
cated, and according to the nationalities. One 
of two or three languages are understood by 
most guests. On no account should there be 
bills of fare in one foreign language alone, as it 
shows a disrespect and disregard of the national 
language which in the U. S. A. is English. Ex- 
ceptions could be made when honoring a society 
of foreigners by banquets given to them during 
a visit in a foreign country, though also there a 
translation in the national language in the 
second place would be much better. 

A short bill of fare in the four mentioned 
languages follows here. Bills of fare that have 
a large cbjoice of dishes and are too long to be 
printed on one side, can be printed on more 
pages and may be numbered so that a waiter 
who does not understand a certain language may 
read it in the language which he knows. Such 
an example is given too in the following. 



DINNER TO ORDER 

Introduction : 

Oyster Cocktail. 

Soups : 

Beef Consomme in Cup. 
Chicken Cream Soup, Danish. 

Fish: 

Boiled Sea Bass, Sauce Soubise. 

Entrees: 

Larded, braised Beef, Mode. 

Kidney Ragout with Mushrooms. 

Roast Shoulder of Mutton. 

Grill: (15 Minutes) 

Pork Chops. 

Poultry: 

Roast Caponized Chicken. 

Vegetables: 

Brussel Sprouts. Creamed Peas 

Boiled, baked, or mashed Potatoes. 

Potato Croquettes. 

Salads: 
Lettuce. Tomatoes. 

Preserves: 
Peaches. Cherries. 

Cheese: 
Roquefort. Cream. 

Dessert: 
Vanilla Ice Cream. Pastry. 

Fruit: 

Oranges. Grapes. 

COFFEE. TEA 



DINER A LA CARTE 

Hors-d'Oeuvre: 

Cocktail de Huitres. 

Potages: 

Consomme de Boeuf en Tasse. 
Creme de Poule, Danoise. 

Poisson: 

Bar de mer bouilli, Sauce Soubise. 

Entrees: 

Boeuf pique, braise a la Mode. 

Ragout de Rognons aux Champignons. 

Epaule de Mouton rotie. 

Grill: (15 Minutes) 

Cotelettes de Pore. 

Volatile: 

Poularde rotie. 

Legumes : 

Choux de Bruxelles. P°is a la Creme. 

Pommes d. t. bouillies, au four, ou Puree. 

Croquettes de Pommes d. t. 

Salades: 
Laitues. Tomates. 

Compote 
Peches. Cerises. 

Fromages: 
Roquefort. Creme. 

Desert: 
Glace creme de Vanille. Patisserie. 

Fruits : 

Oranges. Raisins. 

CAFE. THE - 



HAUPTMAHLZEIT NACH DER KARTE 

Vorspeise: 

Austern-Kocktehl. 

Suppen: 

Rind-Kraftbriihe in Tasse. Huhn-Rahmsuppe, danisch. 

Fisch: 

Gekochter Seebarsch, Soubise-Tunke. 

Eingangsgerichte : 

Gespickter Rindsschmorbraten, modisch. 

Nierenragu mit Tafelpilzen. 

Gebratene Hammelschulter. 

Vom Rost: (15 Minuten) 

Schweinschrippchen. 

Geflilgel: 

Gebratenes Masthuhn. 

Gemiise: 

Rosenkohl. Erbsen in Rahmtunke. 

Gekochte, gebackene oder Mus-Kartoffel. 

Kartof f elkr usteln . 

Salate : 
Lattich. Tomaten. 

Eingemachtes: 
Pfirsiche. Kirschen. 

Kase: 
Roquefort. Rahm. 

Nachtisch: 
Vanille-Rahmeis. Geback. 

Frucht: 

Apfelsinen. Weintrauben. 

KAFFEE. TEE. 



COMIDA A LA CARTA 

Entrada: 

Cocktail de Ostras. 

Sopas: 

Consomme de Vaca en taza. 
Sopa cremosa de Gallina, Danesa. 

Pescado: 

Perca cocida, Salsa Soubise. 

Entres: 

Vaca mechada, rehogada a la Moda. 

Ragu de riiiones con setas. 

Pernil de Carnero asado. 

Parrillas: (15 minutes) 

Chuletas de cerdo emparrilladas. 

Aves: 

Gallina gorda asada. 

Legumbres : 

Col Lombarda. Guisantes en Crema. 

Papas cosidas r fritas, 6 pure. 
Croquetas de papas. 

Ensaladas : 
Lechuga. Tomates. 

Compotas: 
Melocotones. Cerezas. 

Quesos: 
Roquefort. Crema. 

Postre: 
Helado vainilla. Pasteles. 

Ft^utas : 

Naranjas. Uvas. 

CAFE. TE. 



Bill of Fare to Order 

SPECIALTIES: 

1. Consomme. 2. Clam Chowder. 

3. Chicken Cream Soup. U> Fried Brook Trout 

5. Boiled Breast of Beef, Horseradish Sauce, Bouillon Potatoes* 

6. Goose Giblets, American. 

7. Stewed Lamb Tongue, Mashed Turnips. 

8. Roastbeef, Cauliflower, French fried Potatoes. 

9. Chicken Fricassee. 

10. Francfort Sausages, Mashed Potatoes, Sourcrout 

11. Hot Mince Pie. 



To Special Order. 



Oysters and Clams: 

1. Blue Point Oysters in Shell 

2. Cape Cod Oysters in Shell 

3. Large Oyster Fry 

4. Steamed Soft Clams 

5. Roast Lynnhaven Oysters 

6. Baked Soft Clams 

Side Dishes: 

7. Olives 

8. Radishes 

9. Cibols 

10. Pickled Cucumbers 

11. Salted Cucumbers 

12. Anchovies 

13. Sardines 

14- Sardines on Toast 

15. Caviare on Toast 

Soups : 

16. Meat Broth w. Rice 

17. Consomme, Windsor 

18. Strained Pea Soup 

19. Tomato Cream Soup 

20. Lobster Cream Soup 



Eggs: 

21. Boiled 

22. Fried 

23. Fried w. Bacon 
2Jf. Fried w. Ham 

25. Scrambled, plain 

26. Scrambled w. Salmon 

27. Scrambled w. Ham 

28. Scrambled w. Bacon 

29. Scrambled w. Tomatoes 

30. Scrambled w. Asparagus 

31. Scrambled w. Fruit Jelly 

32. Omelet, plain 

33. Omelet w. Rum 

3U. Omelet w. Mushrooms 

35. Puffed Omelet 

Fish: 

36. Fried Smelts 

37. Fried Smelts w. Remoulade Sc 

38. Fried Herring 

39. Fried White Fish 

40. Boiled Blue Fish 

41. Boiled Barbel 

42. Fish Croquettes 

43. Fish Cake 



Table Cards In More Than One Language 



Crustaceans : 

44. Lobster w. Mayonnaise 

45. Crabs w. Mayonnaise 

46. Baked Lobster 

47. Jellied Crabs 

48. Fried Frog Legs 

Entrees: 

49. Roastbeef 

50. Roast Veal 

51. Roast Mutton 

52. Roast Pork 

53. Irish Lamb Stew 

54. Small Steak 

55. Small Steak w. Onions 

56. Sirloin Steak 

57. Sirloin Steak w. Onions 

58. Tenderloin Steak 

59. Breaded Veal Collop, Vienna 

60. Grillade of Pork 

61. Stewed Kidneys 

62. Beef Hash 

63. Beef Hash w. Egg 

64. Veal Fricassee 

65. Roast Venison Steak 

66. Beef Goulash 

Poultry : 

67. Roast Chicken 

68. Roast Turkey 

69. Roast Pigion 

70. Roast Chickling 

71. Jellied Fillet of Chicken 

72. Chicken Fricassee 

Vegetables: 

73. Cauliflower 

74. White Cabbage 

75. Red Cabbage 

76. String Beans, creamed 

77. New Peas 

78. Asparagus, fricasseed 

79. Asparagus Tips 

80. Macaroni, breaded and baked 

81. Noodles 

82. Turnips 

83. Carrots in white Sauce 

Potatoes: 

84. Boiled 

85. Baked in their Skin 

86. Fried 

87. Mashed 

88. French Fried 

89. German Fried 

90. Cream 



91. Mint 

92. Lyonese style 

93. Bouillon 

Salads : 

94. Red Beets 

95. Potato 

96. Potato w. Bacon 

97. Potato w. Mayonnaise 

98. Letttuce 

99. Asparagus 

100. Dentellion 

101. Mixed Herring 

102. Fish 

103. Mixed Fruit 

104. Lobster 

Cold Dishes: 

105. American Smoked Ham 

106. Boiled Ham 

107. Roast Beef 

108. Smoked Beef 

109. Smoked Whitefish 

110. Liver Sausage 

111. Cervelat Sausage 

112. Tongue Sausage 

113. Bologna Sausage 

114. Head Cheese 

115. Smoked Eel 

116. Eel in Jelly 

117. Smoked Beef Tongue 

118. Sour Lamb Tongue 

Sandwiches : 

119. Smoked Ham 

120. Boiled Ham 

121. Roastbeef 

122. Beef Tongue 

123. Chicken 

124. Sardines 

125. Anchovies 

126. Caviare 

127. Egg 

128. Swiss Cheese 

129. American Cheese 

Siveet Dishes: 

130. Rice Pudding, Fruit Sauce 

131. Banana Fritters 

132. Baked Apple w. Cream 

133. Pancake, plain 

134. Apple Pie 

135. Apricot Pie 

136. Strawberry Cake 

137. Vanilla Icecream 

138. Light Icecream 

139. Sherbet 



52 The Art of Naming Dishes 

Fruits : Drinks : 

Ul Pea^ ™- Coffee 

1A2 OraLe 150 ' Coffee > sma11 CU P 

US Pineapple 151 ' Coffee > w ' Cream 

Ui CheS "* Coffee w. whipped Cream 

Cheese: ^ *ea 

U5. Swiss *££ ^coa , 

146. Camenbert *££• Chocolate 

147. Roquefort io ^ Mllk 
14^. Cream 



Carte du Jour 

SPECIALITES: 

1. Consomme. 2. Potage de Lucines, Americaine. 

3. Potage Creme de Poule. U. Truite frite. 

5. Poitrine de Boeuf bouillie, Sauce Raifort, 

Pommes d. t. au Bouillon. 

6. Abattis d'Oie, Americaine. 

7. Langue d'Agneau etuvee, Puree de Navets. 

8. Roti de Boeuf, Choux-fleur, 

Pommes de terre roties a la Franchise. 

9. Fricassee de Poule. 

10. Saucisses de Francfort, Puree de Pommes d. t., Choucroute. 

11. Pate de Hachis a TAnglaise. 

A Commander special: 

Huitres : Oeufs : 

1. Huitres de Blue Point en Coquille 21. a la coque 

2. Huitres de Cape Cod en Coquille 22. frits 

S. Friture de Huitres 23. frits au Lard 

4. Lucines braisees 24. frits au Jambon 

5. Huitres de Lynnhaven grillees 25. brouilles au naturel 

6. Lucines frites 26. brouilles au Saumon 

„ 27. brouilles au Jambon 

Hors-doeuvre: ^ brouilles au Lard 

7 - ~ h Y? s 29. brouilles a la Tomate 

8. Kadis 3Q J3 rou in^ s aux Asperges 

9. Ailes d'Espagne _ g± brouill6s a la GeMe 

10. Concombres marines 32 Omelette au naturel 

11. Concombres sales ng QWette au Rum 

12. Anchois ? ^ Omelette aux Champignons 
^.Sardines .?5. Omelette souf flee 

U. Canape, de Sardines p™*,™ • 

15. Canape de Caviar ,,. Eperlans "' 

Potages: g7. Eperlans frits, Sc. Remoulade. 

16. Bouillon au Riz 38. Hareng roti 

17. Consomme, Windsor 39. Blanchaile frite 

18. Potage passe de Pois 40. Dorade bouillie 

19. Potage creme de Tomates 41. Barbeau bouilli 

20. Potage creme de Homard 42. Croquettes de Poisson 



Table Cards In More Than One Language 



43. Gateau de Poisson 
Crustaces : 
UU. Homard a la Mayonnaise 

45. Crabes a la Mayonnaise 

46. Homard frit 

47. Chaud-froid de Crabes 

48. Grenouilles frites 

Entrees : 

49. Roti de Boeuf 

50. Roti de Veau 

51. Roti de Mouton 

52. Roti de Pore 

53. Navarin d'Agneau, Irlandaise 

54. Bifteck petit 

55. Bifteck petit a TOignons 

56. Bifteck d'Aloyau 

57. Bifteck d'Aloyau a l'Oignons 

58. Bifteck de Filet 

59. Escalope de Veau panee, Vienne 

60. Carbonade de Pore 

61. Rognons etuves 

62. Hachis de Boeuf 

63. Hachis de Boeuf aux Oeufs 

64. Fricassee de Veau 

65. Morceau de Venaison grille 

66. Goulash de Boeuf 

Volatile: 

67. Poule rotie 

68. Dindon roti 

69. Pigeon roti 

70. Poussin roti 

71. Filet de Poule a la Chaud-froid 

72. Fricassee de Poule 

Legumes : 

73. Choux-fleurs 

74. Choux blancs 

75. Choux rouges 

76. Haricots verts a la Creme 

77. Haricots nouveaux 

78. Asperges en Fricassee 

79. Pointes d'Asperges 

80. Macaroni gratine 

81. Nouilles 

82. Navets 

83. Carottes en Sauce blanc 

Pommes de Terre: 

84. Bouillies 

85. Au four naturel 

86. Roties 

87. Puree 

88. Roties a la Francaise 

89. Roties a l'Allemande 

90. a la Creme 



91. a la Menthe 

92. a la Lyonnaise 

93. Bouillon 

Salades : 

94. Betteraves 

95. Pommes de terre 

96. Pommes d. t. au lard 

97. Pommes d. t. a la Mayonnaise 

98. Laitues 

99. Asperges 

100. Dentdelion 

101. Hareng, mele 

102. Poisson 

103. Fruits meles 

104. Homard 

Mets F voids: 

105. Jambon fume americain 

106. Jambon cuit 

107. Roti de Boeuf 

108. Boeuf fume 

109. Dorade fume 

110. Saucisson de Foie 

111. Cervelat 

112. Saucisson de Langue 

113. Saucisson fume 

114. Fromage de Pore 

115. Anguille fumee 

116. Anguille en Gelee 

117. Languir de Boeuf 

118. Langue d'Agneau en Vinagre 

Petit PaAn: 

119. au Jambon fume 

120. au Jambon cuit 

121. au Roti de Boeuf 

122. a la Langue de Boeuf 

123. a la Poule 

124. aux Sardines 

125. aux Anchois 

126. au Caviar 

127. aux Oeufs 

128. au Fromage de Gruyere 

129. au Fromage americain 

Mets de Douceur: 

130. Pouding de Riz, Sauce de Fruit 

131. Beignets de Bananes 

132. Pomme au four a la Creme 

133. Crepe au naturel 

134. Tarte couverte de Pommes, 

[Anglaise 

135. Tarte couverte de Abricots, 
[Anglaise 



136. Gateau aux Fraises 



Table Cards In More Than One Language 



137. Glace de Creme a la Vanille 

138. Dimi-glace 

139. Sorbet 

Fruits : 

140. Pomme 
Ul. Poir 

142. Orange 

143. Ananas 

144. Cerises 

Fromages : 

145. Gruyere 



146. Camenbert 

147. Roquefort 

148. Creme 

Boissons : 

149. Cafe 

150. Demi Tasse 

151. Cafe a la Creme 

152. Cafe a la Creme fouettee 

153. The 

154. Cacao 

155. Chocolat 

156. Lait 



Speisen nach der Karte 

SPEZIALITATEN: 
1. Kraftbruhe. 2. Venusmuschel-Suppe, amerikanisch. 

3. Huhner-Rahmsuppe. If. Gebratene Bachforelle. 

5. Gekochte Rindsbrust, Meerrettich-Tunke, Briih-Kartoffeln. 

6. Ganseklein, amerikanisch. 

7. Gedampfte Lammzunge, Riibenmus. 

8. Rindsbraten mit Blumenkohl & Bratkartoffeln. 

9. Huhn-Frikassee 

10. Frankfurter Wurste, Kartoffelmus, Sauerkraut. 

11. Hackfleisch-Pastete, englisch. 

Auf Besondere Bestellung: 



Austern and Muscheln: 

1. Blue Point-Austern in d. Schale 

2. Cape Cod-Austern in der Schale 
8. Gebratene Grosse Austern 

4. Gedampfte Venusmuscheln 

5. Gerostete Lynnhaven-Austern 

6. Gebackene Venusmuscheln 

Nebengerichte: 

7. Oliven 

8. Radieschen 

9. Perlzwiebeln 

10. Essiggurken 

11. Salzgurken 

12. Anschoven 

13. Sardienen 

1U. Sardienen auf Rostbrot 

15. Kaviar auf Rostbrot 

Sappen : 

16. Fleischbriihe mit Reis 

17. Kraftsuppe, Windsor 

18. Durchgestr. Erbsensuppe 

19. Tomaten-Rahmsuppe 

20. Hummer-Rahmsuppe 

Eier: 

21. Gekocht 

22. Gebraten 



23. Gebraten mit Speck 

24. Gebraten mit Schinken 

25. Ruhreier, einfach 

26. Ruhreier mit Lachs 

27. Ruhreier mit Schinken 

28. Ruhreier mit Speck 

29. Ruhreier mit Tomaten 

30. Ruhreier mit Spargel 

31. Ruhreier mit Fruchtgallerte 

32. Eierkuchen, einfach 

33. Eierkuchen mit Rum 

34. Eierkuchen mit Pilzen 

35. Eierknchen-Auflauf 

Fisch : 

36. Gebratene Stinte 

37. Gebratene Stinte mit Remo- 

[laden-Tunke 

38. Gebratener Hering 

39. Gebratener Weissling 

40. Gekochter Stutzkopf 
41- Gekochte Barbe 



42. 
43. 



Fischkrusteln 
Fischkuchen 



Krustentiere : 
4h Hummer mit Majonese 



Table Cards In More Than One Language 



57 



45. Krabben mit Majonese 

46. Gebackener Hummer 

47. Uebersulzte Krabben 

48. Gebratene Froschschenkel 

Eingangsgerichte : 

49. Rindsbraten 

50. Kalbsbraten 

51. Hammelbraten 

52. Schweinebraten 

53. Gedampftes Lamm-Gericht, 

[irisch 

54. Kleines Rindstuck, gebraten 

55. Kleines Rindstuck m. Zwiebeln 

56. Rind-Ruckenstuck, gebraten 

57. Rind-Ruckenstiick, m. Zwiebeln 

58. Rind-Lendenstuck, gebraten 

59. Brotierter Kalbschnitzel, Wie- 

ner Art 

60. Schweins-Rostbraten 

61. Gedampfte Nieren 

62. Rindfleisch-Gehack, gebraten 

63. Rindfleisch-Gehack, mit Ei 

64. Kalbs-Frikassee 

65. Gerostetes Wildstuck 

66. Rindsgoulasch 

Geflugel: 

68. Gebratener Puter 

69. Gebratene Taube 

70. Gebratenes Kiicken 

71. Uebersulzte Huhnbrust 

72. Huhn-Frikassee 

Gemiise : 
78. Blumenkohl 

74. Weisskohl 

75. Rotkohl 

76. Brechbohnen in Rahmtunke 

77. Junge Erbsen 

78. Sparge! in Frikassee-Tunke 

79. Spargelkopfe 

80. Makaroni, brotiert u. gebacken 

81. Nudeln 

82. Ruben 

83. Mohren in weisser Tunke 

Kartoffeln: 

84. Gekocht 

85. Gebacken in der Schale 

86. Gebraten 

87. Mus-Kartoffeln 

88. Franzosisch gebraten 

89. Deutsch gebraten 

90. Rahm-Kartoffeln 

91. Minze-Kartoffeln 

92. Lyonische Art 

93. Briih-Kartoffeln 



Salate : 
94- Rote Beete 

95. Kartoffel 

96. Kartoffel mit Speck 

97. Kartoffel mit Majonese 

98. Lattich 

99. Spargel 

100. Lowenzahn 

101. Hering, gemischt 

102. Fisch 

103. Frucht. gemischt 

104. Hummer 

Kalte Speisen: 

105. Amerikanischer Rauch-Shinken 

106. Gekochter Schinken 

107. Rindsbraten 

108. Gerauchertes Rindfleisch 

109. Geraucherter Weissling 

110. Leberwurst 

111. Cervelatwurst 

112. Zungenwurst 

113. Mettwurst 

114. Siilze 

115. Geraucherter Aal 

116. Aal in Gallerte 

118. Saure Lammzunge 

117. Geraucherte Rindszunge 

Brotchen mit 

119. Gerau chert. Shinken 

120. Gekocht. Schinken 

121. Rindsbraten 

122. Ochsenzunge 

124. Sardienen 

125. Anschoven 

126. Kaviar 

123. Huhnfleisch 

127. Eier 

128. Schweizer Kase 

129. Amerik. Kase 

Susse Speisen: 

130. Reis-Pudding mit Fruchttunke 

131. Bananen-Krapfen 

132. Gebackener Apfel m. Rahm 

133. Pfannkuchen, einfach 

134. Apfel-Pastete 

135. Apfrikosen-Pastete 

136. Erdbeertorte 

137. Vanille-Rahmeis 

138. Halbgefrorenes 

139. Scherbett 

Friichte: 

140. Apfel 

141. Birne 



Table Cards In More Than One Language 

142. Orange Getranke: 

143. Ananas U9. Kaffee 

144. Kirschen 150. Kaffee, kleine Tasse 

151. Kaffee mit Rahm 
Kase: 152 , Kaffee mit Schlagsahne 

145. Schweizer 153. Tee 

146. Camenbert 154. Kakao 

147. Roquefort 155. Schokolade 

148. Rahmkase 156. Milch 



Lista de Platos a la Carta 

ESPECIALIDADES : 
1. Consomme. 2. Sopa de Almejas, Americana. 

3. Sopa cremosa de Gallina. 4. Trucha frita. 

5. Pecho de Vaca asado, Salsa de Rabano, Papas con Caldo. 

6. Menudillos de Ganso, Americana. 

7. Lengua de Cordero estofada, Pure de Nabos. 

8. Asado de Vaca, Coliflor, Papas fritas a la Alemanesa. 

9. Fricase de Gallina. 

10. Salchichas de Francoforte, Pure de Papas, Berza acida. 

11, Empanada de Picadillo, Inglesa. 

A Demanda especial. 



Ostras y Almejas: 

1. Ostras de Blue Point en Conehas 

2. Ostras de Cape Cod en Conchas 

3. Fritura de Ostras grandes 

4. Almejas rehogadas 

5. Ostras de Lynnhaven 

[emparrilladas 

6. Almejas horneadas 

Entradas : 

7. Aceitunas 

8. Reponches 

9. Puerros 

10. Cohombros en vinagre 

11. Cohombros salados 

12. Anchoas 
IS. Sardinas 

1U. Tostado con Sardinas 

15. Tostado con Cabial 

Sopas: 

16. Caldo con Arroz 

17. Consomme a la Windsor 

18. Sopa colada de Guisantes 

19. Sopa cremosa te Tomates 

20. Sopa cremosa de Cangrejos 



Huevos : 

21. Cocidos 

22. Fritos 

23. Fritos con Tocino 
2U. Fritos con Jamon 

25. Revueltos, simple 

26. Revueltos con Salmon 

27. Revueltos con Jamon. 

28. Revueltos con Tocino 

29. Revueltos con Tomates 

30. Revueltos con Esparragos 

31. Revueltos con Jalea de Fruta 

32. Omeleta, simple 

33. Omeleta con Ron 
3h. Omeleta con Hongas 

35. Omeleta soplada 

Pescado : 

36. Espirenques fritos 

37. Espirenques fritos, Salsa 

[Remouladi 

38. Arenque frito 

39. Albur frito 

40. Pescado azul cocido 

41. Barba cocida 

42. Croquetas de Pescado 

43. Pastelon de Pescado 



The Art of Naming Dishes 



Crustaceos: 

44. Cangrejo con Mayonesa 

45. Cangrejuelos con Mayonesa 

46. Cangrejo horneado 

47. Cangrejuelos en Jalea 

48. Ranas fritas 

Entres : 

49. Asado de Vaca 

50. Asado de Ternero 

51. Asado de Carnero 

52. Asado de Cerdo 

53. Estofado de Cordero, Irlandesa 

54. Bifteque pequeno 

55. Bifteque pequeno con Cebollas 

56. Bifteque de Lomo 

57. Bifteque de Lomo con Cebollas 

58. Bifteque de Folomo 

59. Rebanada de Terner 

[panadeada, Viena 

60. Carbonada de Cerdo 

61. Rinones estofados 

62. Picadillo de Vaca 

63. Picadillo de Vaca con Huevo 

64. Fricase de Ternero 

65. Pedazo de Venado emparrillado 

66. Goulash de Vaca 

Aves : 

67. Gallina asada 

68. Pavo asado 

69. Faloma asada 

70. Polio asado 

71. Espoleta de Gallina en Talea 

72. Fricase de Gallina en Talea 

Legumbres : 

73. Coliflor 

74. Repollo bianco 

75. Repollo rojo 

76. Habas verduras en Crema 

77. Guisantes nuevos 

78. Esparragos en Fricase 

79. Puntas de Esparragos 
#0. Macarrones gratinados 

81. Fideos 

82. Nabos 

83. Zanahorias en Salsa blanca 

Papas : 

84. Cocidas 

85. Horneadas 

86. Fritas 

87. Pure 

88. Fritas a la Francesa 

89. Fritas a la Alemanesa 

90. en Crema 



108 
109 



91. con Menta 

92. a la Lyonesa 

93. con Caldo 

Ensaladas : 

91+. Remolachas 

95. Papas 

96. Papas con Jamon 

97. Papas con Mayonesa 

98. Lechuga 

99. Esparragos 

100. Diente-de-lion 

101. Arenque, mixtada 

102. Pescado 

103. Frutas mixtadas 

104. Cangrejo 

Fiambres : 

105. Jamon ahumado americano 

106. Jamon cocido 

107. Asado de Vaca 
Vaca ahumada 
Albur ahumado 

110. Chorizo de Higado 

111. Chorizo de Cervela 

112. Chorizo de Lengua 

113. Chorizo ahumado 

114. Salpicon 

115. Anguila ahumada 

116. Anguila en Jalea 

117. Lengua de Vaca ahumada 

118. Lengua de Cordero en vinagr* 

Emparedados con 

119. Jamon ahumado 

120. Jamon cocido 

121. Asada de Vaca 

122. Lengua de Vaca 

123. Gallina 

124. Sardinas 

125. Anchoas 

126. Cabial 

127. Huevos 

128. Queso de Gruyere 

129. Queso americano 

Platos Dulces: 

130. Pudin de Arroz, Salsa de Fruta 

131. Fritillas de Bananas 

132. Manzana horneada con Crema 

133. Tortilla, simple 

134. Pastel de Manzanas a la 

[Inglesa 

135. Pastel de Albaricoques, Inglesa 

136. Pastelon de Fresas 

137. Helado de Vainilla 

138. Medio Helado 

139. Sorbeto 



Table Cards In More Than One Language 61 

Frutas: 148. de Crema 

140. Manzana »-ioa— '. 

Ul. Pera „ ^ Se&ufos: 

142. Naranja U 9 - 5 a J? 

_U3 Pifia * 50 - Cafe > c °P a chica 

144. Cerizas 75i - Cafe > con Crema 

152. Cafe con Nata batida 

Quesos: 153, Te 

i45. Gruyere 154. Cocoa 

.Ufl. Camenbert 155. Chocolate 

.147. Roquefort 156. Leche 



The Abbreviation of Names 



The abbreviation of menu terms, so large- 
ly adopted by the French, is typical of that which 
is found in any line of trade where certain short 
expressions are indispensable. A cook has no 
time to bother with long names ; neither has the 
waiter, who takes his orders either oral or 
written. For them a brief indication is suffic- 
ient. For oeufs brouilles ate petit-sale there is 
simply oeufs petit-sale. Chefs have become so 
accustomed to such terms that they use them 
unconsciously when making up the bills of fare. 
But this, again is the reason why so many trans- 
lators have to deal with many difficulties, even 
when they are well versed in the French or 
other languages; and, as the public cannot be 
expected to understand the abbreviated names 
they should be given more explicitly or losses 
will be incurred by the restaurant management. 

That many of the abbreviated terms are 
not understood by the menu-translators is also 
the reason for foreign names appearing on bills 
of fare, which easily could be avoided. Let us 
take oeufs petit-sale. The words are often 
written with capital initial letters as Oeufs 
Petit Sale. This contributes to the difficulty 
of not understanding the words Petit Sale. Per- 
haps some may take it for a figure of speech, 
or for one of the proper names in which the 
French culinary language is so rich. The result 
is that the translation appears on many bills 



The Abbreviation of Names 63 

of fare simply as E g g s Petit Sale. In 
reality petit-sale is salted pork and be- 
cause the preposition au is left out, the correct 
translation should be Eggs with salted 
pork. But another important Word is omit- 
ted, namely brouilles. Therefore Scrambled 
eggs and |salted| pork or simply 
Scrambled pork as it is often called. 

That the abbreviation of names also can 
give a wrong interpretation to some dishes, can 
be proven by the above, which is often translated 
(on bills of fare as also in some books) as 
Bacon and eggs meaning Fried 
eggs and bacon. 

Similar instances of abbreviations in 
French, which have been adopted in other langu- 
ages, are shown as follows : 

FRENCH : 

Creme royale for Potage creme de volaille, royale. 

Potage royale for Potage lie de volaille, royale. 

Potage royale for Potage clair de volaille, royale. 

Consomme royale for Consomme de boeuf aux legumes, 

royale. 
Consomme royale for Consomme de volaille, royale. 



ENGLISH : 

Cream royal for Chicken cream soup, royal. 

Soup (Potage) royal for Thick chicken soup, royal. 
Soup (Potage) royal for Clear chicken soup, royal. 
Consomme royal for Beef consomme w. vegetables, 

royal. 
Consomme royal for Chicken consomme, royal. 



64 The Art of Naming Dishes 

There are many other instances where 
such abbreviations should not occur as the terms 
then have an entirely different meaning : Carpe 
a la sauce de caviar and Salmon a la sauce au 
citron, etc. The words a la sauce are often left 
out and the meaning is Carp with cav- 
iar and Salmon with lemon in- 
stead of Carp with caviar sauce 
and Salmon with lemon sauce. 
If an abbreviation is to be used then only a la 
can be left out, for which a comma must be in- 
serted; and the same in English when leaving 
out with. The words sauce and stuffed 
always must be mentioned in connection with 
a dish and never a style designation alone for 
a sauce or a stuffing. Otherwise a garnish 
(garniture) can be misunderstood as: Poitrine 
de veau, sauce a Vallemande (Breast of veal, 
German sauce) ; Poitrine de veau, farcie a Valle- 
mande (Breast of veal, German stuffing, or 
stuffed in German style) ; Poitrine de veau, /gar- 
iture a Vallemande (Breast of veal, German 
/garnish/) . If the words sauce and stuff- 
ed are left out then a Vallemande (German 
style) refers to breast of veal with a garnish. 
One must admit that there is a big difference 
between each dish but all three dishes can be 
intelligibly expressed by writing just one word 
more. 

Abbreviated names have been used in 
most countries, and especially in the IT. S. A. y 
in a deplorable manner. On nearly every bill 
of fare one meets with names which can be un- 
derstood only by the cooks and perhaps a few 
others in the establishment. 



The Abbreviation of Names 65 

As with French, mixed English-French, 
and other foreign names, so it is sometimes with 
plain English names given on bills of fare that 
are not intelligible enough. Viz: 



Sea Food 

Shinnecocks Cherrystones Cape Cods 

Blue Points Halibut lobster 

Very often restaurant patrons will ask 
what this or that means. Sometimes they do 
not like to ask and consequently do not order. 
The heading Sea Food does not mean much 
to them. How could they know that Shinnecock 
clams, Cherrystone clams, Cape Cod oysters, 
Blue Point oysters are meant? Again, the two 
latter names do not say how they are prepared. 
One supposes plain boiled or fried halibut or 
lobster, but often they are prepared in some 
(other complicated style. 

But in the culinary languages there are 
some words which can be left out without obs- 
curing the distinctiveness. 

The French often omit a la, an, aux, en ; 

the English with, and, in style; the 

Spanish can, y, a la; the Germans mit, unci, 

auf Art, nach Art. In all 

languages there are mostly omitted the words 
soup, sauce, and others, when they have a head 
ing as in the following instances. 

POMMES DE TERRE: 

Roties, au four, bouillies, gratinees, frites a la 
franchise, frites a l'allemande, puree, croquettes, a la 
parisienne, a la julienne, creme Saratoga. 



66 



The Art of Naming Dishes 



POMMES DE TERRE 



Roties , 

Bouillies 

Au four 

Grillees 

Frites, Franchise 

Frites, allemande 



a la Parisienne 

a la Julienne 

Croquettes 

Puree 

Saratoga 

Creme 



POTATOES 



Fried, baked, boiled, gratinated, French fried, 
German fried, puree, croquettes, Parisian, julienne 
(shredded or baked), cream, Saratoga. 

Julienne 

(shredded and baked) 
Croquettes 
Puree 
Saratoga 
Cream 



Fried 

Boiled 

Baked 

Broiled 

French fried 

German fried 

Parisian 



PAPAS 



Fritas, horneadas, cocidas, gratinadas, fritas a 
la francesa, fritas a la alemanesa, pure, croquetas, a la 
parisiense, a la julienne, crema, Saratoga. 



Fritas 

Cocidas 

Horneadas 

Emparrilladas 

Fritas a la francesa 

Fritas a la alemanesa 



a la Parisiense 

a la Julienne 

Croquetas 

Pure 

Saratoga 

Crema 



KARTOFFELN : 

Gebraten, gebacken, gekocht, krumiert & ge- 
backen, franzosisch gebraten, deutsch gebraten, Mus, 
Krusteln, Pariser Art, gebackene Streifen, Rahm, 
Saratoga. 



Gebraten 

Gekocht 

Gebacken 

Gerostet 

Franzosisch gebraten 

Deutsch gebraten 



Pariser Art 

Gebackene Streifen 

Krusteln 

Mus 

Saratoga 

Rahm 






The Abbreviation of Names 67 

As to other abbreviations they can be 
written as in the following instances : 

FRENCH: ENGLISH: 

Pommes de terre a la parisienne Potatoes, Paris (Parisian) style 
Pommes de terre, parisienne Potatoes, Parisian 

Consomme de poule a l'americaine Chicken consomme in American style 
Consomme de poule, americaine Chicken consomme, American style 

Chicken consomme, American 

Sauce a la Villeroi Sauce in Villeroi style 

Sauce, Villeroi Sauce, Villeroi style 

Sauce Villeroi Sauce/,/ Villeroi 

Villeroi sauce 

Legumes meles a la Villeroi Mixed vegetables in Villeroi style 

Legumes meles, Villeroi Mixed vegetables, Villeroi style 

Mixed vegetables, Villeroi 

SPANISH: GERMAN: 

Papas a la parisiense Kartoffeln auf Pariser Art 

Papas, parisiense Kartoffeln, Pariser Art 

Consomme de gallina a la Huhn-Kraftbriihe auf Amerikaner 

n , _ [americana (amerikanische) Art 

Consomme de gallina, americanaHuhn-Kraftbruhe, Amerikaner 

(amerikanische) Art 
Huhn-Kraftbriihe, amerikanisch 

Salsa a la Villeroi Tunke (Sose) nach Villeroi 

Salsa, Villeroi Tunke (Sosc), Villeroi 

Salsa Villeroi Villeroi-Tunke; Villeroi-Sose 

Legumbres mixtas a la Villeroi Gemischtes Gemuse nach Villeroi 
Legumbres mixtas, Villeroi Gemischtes Gemiisc, Villeroi 

The (foregoing instances show that the 
French and the Spaniards sometimes leave out 
the comma as in Sauce Villeroi and Salsa Ville- 
roi. This expresses the same as Villeroi 
s a n c e and Villeroi-Tunke (Villeroi-Sose) 
in English and German. 

As to the designations in German, note 
the following: All geographical adjectives with 
the ending is eh begin with a small letter, while 
such with the ending er are written with a cap- 
ital. If the word Art is mentioned with an ad- 



68 The Art of Naming Dishes 

jective ending in isch then all adjectives have an 
equal ending, namely ische. If the word Art 
is left out then the ending is always isch. One 
can write : Amerikanische Art, italienische Art, 
mexikanische Art but amerihanisch, italienisch, 
mexikanisch etc. Also deutsche Art but with- 
out Art one must write deutsch. 

As to the personal nouns, the Germans 
write nach before the name and seldom mention 
the word Art. Frequently nach is left out also, 
and a commo inserted in its place. 



The Meaning of the 

Personal Nouns, 

Geographical Names, 

Titles, Etc. 



On scanning the menus and bills of fare 
it strikes one as peculiar to see so many proper 
names and other ones used. Guests are often 
puzzled by such names and invariably ask what 
they signify. 

The thousands of different styles of pre- 
paring dishes from the proportionally few in- 
gredients (elements) cannot all be briefly 
named without them. But in modern times 
there is an objectionable custom introduced of 
using proper names, etc. They appear very 
obtrusively on bills of fare while the principal 
discriptions are left out. The French have 
gone so far, even, that they sometimes use a 
personal name for a dish as for instance Sou- 
b i s e for a soup. And if they write Orly 
d'asperges then it does mean nothing else but 
Asperges a VOrly (Asperges a la 6/ Orly) in Eng- 
lish : Asparagus in Orly style. 
It is only natural that such misrepresented 
names of dishes do not, assist in making the 
culinary language clear. This bad habit has 
been adopted more or less in other languages 
and it has become so universal that it will be 
hard to return to intelligible writing. In the 



70 The Art of Naming Dishes 

following instances one can see that the simplest 
dishes are sometimes called by absolutely un- 
intelligible names when plain English words 
would be far more satisfactory. 

Potatoes Bonne Femme Sauted potatoes w. Bacon and Onions 

Turkey en demi-deuil Truffled Turkey; Turkey w. truffled 

[cream sauce 

Consomme Royal Chicken consomme w. whipped eggs 

Consomme vert-pre Consomme w. spinach (or other green 

[vegetables) 

Soup Hortense Clear soup w. vegetables 

Thick chicken soup, Hortense (with 

[Parmesan cheese, chicken balls 
[and vegetables 
Consomme Julienne Consomme w. vegetables, Montpensier 

[Montpensier (with shredded vegetables and 

[whipped eggs) 
Pullet fricassee Talleyrand Pullet fricassee w. lettuce 
Veal sweetbread, Talleyrand Larded veal sweetbread, Talleyrand (w. 

[stewed vegetables, truffles, chicken 
[balls, and asparagus tips on rice) 
Anchovies Millionaire Anchovy paste, Millionaire (Anchovies 

[hashed and mixed with yolks, 
[butter, olives, cream, etc. 
[Thickened, cut in cubes and 
_ [served on toast) 

Salad, Micado Potato-Celery Salad, Micado 

Salad, Italian Mixed Salad, Italian 

Salad Chasseur Mixed Salad, Hunter's 

Salad Hollandaise a la HusarMixed Salad, Dutch 

From the foregoing it can be readily un- 
derstood that many of the proper names," etc., 
can be omitted. There is absolutely no reason 
for their inclusion at all ; on the contrary they 
make the names of the dishes all the more mys- 
terious. By omitting the said names and sub- 
stituting plain words one can give the dishes 
more intelligible names. But on the other hand, 
one also can see that certain dishes must have 
personal or other style names to briefly indicate 
the many different ingredients that are used in 
their preparation. 



The Meaning of the Personal Nouns, Etc. 71 

Now that we are familiar with the in- 
stances quoted in the foregoing chapters and 
also with the explanations, we may set the fol- 
lowing rules : 

1. All dishes are primarily named ac- 
cording to their main ingredients and their main 
preparation. 

2. Plain ingredients in soups and plain 
side dishes should be given their real names: 
Wine Soup w. Dumplings, Con- 
somme w. Egg, Milk Soup w. 
Rice, Roast Yeal with String 
Beans, etc. 

3. Plain sauces, garnitures, fillings and 
salads should be named according to their in- 
gredients : Butter Sauce, Apple 
Sauce, Tomato Sauce, Bread 
Filling, Potato Salad, Fruit 
Salad, as to garnitures : with French 
fried Potatoes, with Asparagus 
Tips, etc. 

If. Several ingredients in soups are fol- 
lowed by style names, e. g. Thick Chick- 
en Soup, Hortense, etc. 

J. Complicated prepared sauces are 
called by proper names, etc., whereby the word 
sauce must always be mentioned if it does not 
appear in the heading : Sauce/, /M a r e n- 
go (Marengo Sauce), S a u c e/, 
/Rachel (Rachel Sauce), Sauce/, 
/S o u b i s e (Soubise Sauce), etc. 

6. Complicated prepared garnitures are 
designated bv proper names, etc. The word 
garniture can be left out and the proper names, 
etc., can follow right after the name of the m- 
gredwmts and its preparation which is garnish- 



72 The Art of Naming Dishes 

ed. Designations are not given to complicated 
fillings but a stuffed food is simply mentioned 
as being stuffed (filled) : Larded, roast 
Tenderloin of Beef, Baltimore 
/garniture/, Stuffed Breast of 
Veal/, American Style/, etc. 

7. Other than liquid dishes (no soups) 
which are prepared with several ingredients (no 
garnitures) for which a short name cannot be 
given are designated with style names as e. g. 
in Anchovies, Millionaire (better : 
Anchovy Paste, .Millionaire). 
Similar dishes which have names that already 
include known ingredients and preparations but 
which can be prepared in different styles are 
called with style names : Goulash/, /H u n- 
garian (Hungarian Goulash); 
Goulash/, /Bohemian (Bohemian 
Goulash); Chicken Fricassee, 
French; Chicken Fricassee, 
K o n a n; etc. 

8. Complicated prepared salads are di- 
vided into five classes : Fruit, Vegetable, Meat, 
Fish, and Mixed Salads. The different styles 
of such are given proper names, etc. 

9. Certain dishes which are plainly pre- 
pared do not need to be designated with their 
principal manner of preparation as they are to 
be known as plain. Therefore, if the name of 
an element (a food) is given without the kind 
of preparation then the simple customary me- 
thod of preparation is always meant: Car- 
rots, Peas, String Beans, As- 
paragus, etc. If such dishes are prepared 
in a different way then give the manner of pre- 
them with style names. If a dish can be fried, 
paration ; if prepared in a complicated style call 



The Meaning of the Personal Nouns, Etc. 73 

baked, etc., in different ways, then the style de- 
signation is used as in the following instances: 
Fried Potatoes, French/ style/ 
(French Fried Potatoes); Fried 
Potatoes, German/ style/ (Ger- 
man fried Potatoes). 

10. Therefore, style designations may 
express: Several ingredients in soups, a com 
plicated prepared garniture, a complicated style 
of preparations, and different styles for such 
names of dishes that include known prepara- 
tions and ingredients. (It is understood that 
spices, with few exceptions, are not included in 
the words several ingredients as 
they are to be considered as self-evident in cer- 
tain dishes). 

These rules, together with the other ex- 
planations given, explain which meaning the 
personal nouns, geographical names, titles, etc. 
should have on bills of fare and 
menus if intelligible naming is desired to 
the advantage of all interested in the restaurant 
trade. The guests will but rarely ask the mean- 
ing of a style designation, and if they should 
ask it can be easily explained to them that all 
style names have an unchangeable meaning as 
given under No. 10. A waiter may politely re- 
mark that it is not possible to learn the meaning 
of more than 10,000 style names and that they 
are only secondary designations. A short print- 
ed explanation on the bills of fare may do much 
good. The guests will easily understand this 
and the jvaiters and others will be relieved of 
much trouble. 

Furthermore it is to the advantage of 
waiters and waitresses when taking a position 
in a new place because they do not lose any time 



74 The Art of Naming Dishes 

in studying the names on a bill of fare which is 
new to them. Every waiter knows what it 
means and how long it takes to get well acquain- 
ted with names peculiar to a restaurant, and 
therefore will welcome this innovation. And 
the headwaiters, managers and proprietors have 
the advantage of breaking in new waiters and 
other men, who want to become waiters, quicker 
and with less trouble. This feature should not 
be underestimated, especially at a time when 
shortage of labor prevails. A guest very likely 
will ask what Soup Bourgeoise and 
Soup Bretonne means, but is perfectly 
satisfied with Consomme, Bourgeoise 
and Bean Puree Soup, Bretonne. 
The same in the case of Caviar in Eggs, 
Varsovienne for Eggs, Varsovienne, One 
may say : "We also serve smoked salmon . and 
jelly with this." To this one can answer that 
the named dish is an expensive one and by men- 
tioning caviar, as undoubtedly the dearest of 
the four things, the guest will see that it is worth 
the price mentioned. And just the word caviar 
may tickle his tongue and make him give an 
order while the simple word Egg would not 
produce an order from him. The salmon and 
jelly may be considered as secondary and is ex- 
pressed by the designation Varsovienne (or bet- 
ter and shorter in English : Warsaw), though 
it would be better to call it Caviar in Eggs 
w. Salmon and Jelly. By making 
up a bill of fare one must ask : a In which way 
can a dish be named most attractively and to 
the best advantage"? Business men have spent 
millions for attractive advertisement and thou- 
sands have made it their trade and have become 
experts in setting their words for attractive ads. 
Every maker of bills of fare should become an 



The Meaning of the Personal Nouns, Etc. 75 

expert in naming dishes. Success is bound to 
come, and the day is not far distant when large 
restaurants will employ special men for this art 
of naming dishes which, to a very small extent, 
is already being done. Write Apple Frit- 
ter; Puff-paste Patty of Chic- 
ken; Sour Roastbeef with Po- 
tato Dumplings; Griblet Soup, 
Spanish; etc. for Apple Beignet; Vol-au- 
vent b f Chicken; Sauerbraten with 
Potato Dumplings; Godinga ; etc., 
even, if some people may say that one or the 
other name does not exactly tally with the trans- 
lation. Rather leave out 25% or more of the 
names on a large bill of fare and use the room 
for detailing the rest as there are already too 
many dishes offered on most of the table cards, 
so that a guest gets confused and uses more 
time for reading it than he perhaps would spend 
on a newspaper and this to the disadvantage of 
a house in busy hours. It will save more money 
and stop wasting of food to such an extent that 
the average restaurant proprietor will be sur- 
prised at the result. How many "little" things 
are kept in stock just waiting for a call and 
often spoil by being held too long only because 
there are too many dishes offered, most of which 
are not given in detail but presented with such 
confusing names and, are therefore not ordered. 



Style Designations 

The following lists are abstracts from the 
dictionaries to follow, which contain more than 
1000 names, with explanations of their meaning 
used in the culinary languages as style designa- 
tions or in connection with eatable products 
named after the original places of their produc- 
tion. 

As to the geographical style designations 
we have seen in former pages that the adjectives 
are used and in French and Spanish it is the 
feminine form becauce they follow the feminine 
a la, a la. The feminine form should be used 
even when a la, a la is left out. Writers of bills 
of fare often meet with difficulties in this res- 
pect which can be seen by the thousands of er- 
rors on table cards. As stated before, in Eng- 
lish i n and s t y 1 e are often left out just 
like in German the words a u f und A r t. 
( See : The Abbreviation of Names ) . 

The Frenrh culinary language is rich in 
such names as are mentioned under the title 
"Other Style Designations." They have become 
a habit and the flexibility of the French langu- 
age makes it possible to use the names short and 
the sound is not unharmonious. Also in Span- 
ish the translations can be used, but in German 
some do not sound nicely and in English some 
are by far too long and absolutely unharmonious 
if we translate like for instance in the following- 
case: charcutier (pork-butcher), elm rentier e 
(pork-butcher's wife), a la charcutiere (in pork- 
butcher's wife style). This is mainly the reason 
why so many of these designations are not used 



The Meaning of the Personal Nouns, Etc. 77 

in other languages than French. But there is 
no reason for translating such names in the fem- 
inine form. The French write the names in 
feminine only because the foregoing feminine 
a la forces them to do so. If they write a la 
\maniere de\ char cutler the last word is mascu- 
line but becomes feminine by leaving out maniere 
de = a la charcutiere. But still the trans- 
lations of such words do i^ot sound nicely to 
our ears and are used in French. This can be 
done if the main ingredients and the principal 
manner of preparing are mentioned, because we 
have seen before, that style designations mean 
little or nothing to guests, and therefore it 
makes no difference if such names are given in 
French or English. On the other hand, the 
mos;t translations can be used harmoniously and 
short by leaving out the words i n and s t y 1 e. 






Geographical Names 



FRENCH: 

Abyssinie 

abyssinien, s, ne, nes 

a l'abyssinienne 

Afghanistan 

afghan, s, se, ses 

a l'afghanse 

Afrique 

africain, s, e, es 

a l'africaine 

Albanie 

albanien, s, ne, nes 

a l'albanienne 

Alexandrie 

alexandrien, s, ne, nes 

a l'exandrienne 

Algerie 

algerien, s, ne, nes 

a Palgerienne 

Allemagne 

allemand, s, e, es 

a l'allemande 

Alsace 

alsacien, s, ne, nes 

a l'alsacienne 

Amerique 

americain, s, e, es 

a Tamericaine 

Andalousie 

andalousien, s, ne, nes ; 

[andalous, -, e, es 

a l'andalousienne (andalouse) 

Anrdinople ; Andrianopolis 

andrianopolitain, s, e, es 

a randrianopolitaine 

Angleterre 

anglais, -, e, es 

a l'anglaise 

Argentine 

argentin, s, e, es 

a Targentine 

Aries 



ENGLISH: 

Abyssinia 

Abyssinian 

in Abyssinian style 

Afghanistan 

Afghan 

in Afghan style 

Africa 

African 

in African style 

Albania 

Albanian 

in Albanian style 

Alexandria 

Alexandrian 

in Alexandrian style 

Algiers 

Algerian 

in Algerian style 

Germany 

German 

in German style 

Alsace 

Alsatian 

in Alsatian style 

America 

American 

in American style 

Andalusia 

Andalusian 

in Andalusian style 

Adrianople 

Adrianoplan 

in Adrianoplan style 

England 

English 

in English style 

Argentine 

Argentine 

in Argentine style 

Aries 



The Meaning of the Personal Nouns, Etc. 79 



GERMAN: 

Abessinien 

abessinisch 

auf abessinische Art 

Afghanistan 

afghanisch 

auf afghanische Art 

Afrika 

afrikanisch 

auf afrikanische Art 

Albanien 

albanisch 

auf albanisch e Art 

Alexandrien 

alexandrisch 

auf alexandrische Art 

Algier 

algerisch 

auf algerische Art 

Deutschland 

deutsch 

auf deutsche Art 

Elsass 

elsassisch 

auf elsassische Art 

Amerika 

amerikanisch 

auf amerikanische Art 

Andalusien 

andalusisch 

auf andalusische Art 

Adrianopel 

Adrianopeler 

auf Adrianopeler Art 

England 

englisch 

auf englische Art 

Argentinien 

argentinisch 

auf argentinische Art 

Aries 



SPANISH: 

Abisinia 

abisinues/o, os, a, as 

a la abisinuesa 

Afghanistan 

afghanistan/o, os, a, as 

a la afghanistana 

Africa 

african/o, os, a, as 

a la africana 

Albania 

alban/o, os, a, as 

a la albana 

Alexandria 

alejandrin/o, os, a, as 

a la alejandrina 

Argel 

argelin/o, os, a, as 

a la argelina 

Alemania 

aleman, s, alemanesa, s 

a la alemanesa 

Alsatia 

alsatian/o, os, a, as 

a la alsatiana 

America 

american/o, os, a, as 

a la americana 

Andalucia 

andaluz/o, os, a, as 

a la andaluza 

Adri/a/nopolis 

adrinopoli/o, os, a, as 

a la adrinopolia 

Inglaterre 

ingles, ingles/es, a, as 

a la inglesa 

Argentina 

argentin/o, os, a, as 

a la argentina 

Aries 



80 

FRENCH: 
arlesien, s, ne, nes 
a l'arlesienne 
Armenie 

armenien, s, ne, nes 
a l'armenienne 
Arras 

arrageois, -, e, es 
a l'arrageoise 
Asie 

asiatique, s, se, ses 
a l'asiatiquese 
Assyrie 

assyrien, s, ne, nes 
a Passyrienne 
Athenes 

athenien, s, ne, nes 
a l'athenienne 
Australie 

australien, s, ne, nes 
a l'australienne 
Autriche 

autrichien, s, ne, nes 
a Tautrichienne 
Bade; Baden 
badois, -, e, es 
a la badoise ■ 
Bahia 

bahianais, -, e, es 
a la bahianaise 
Bale 

balois, - % e, es 
a la baloise 
Barcelone 

barcelonais, -, e, es 
a la barceldnaise 
Batavie 

batavien, s, ne, nes 
a la batavienne 
Baviere 

bavarois, -, e, es 
a la bavaroise 
Beam 

beamais, -, e, es 
a la bearnaise 
Belgique 



ENGLISH: 

Arlesian 

in Arlesian style 

Armenia 

Armenian 

in Armenian style 

Arras 

Arras, of 

in Arras style 

Asia 

Asiatic 

in Asiatic style 

Assyria 

Assyrian 

in Assyrian style 

Athen 

Athenian 

in Athenian style 

Australia 

Australian 

in Australian style 

Austria 

Austrian 

in Austrian style 

Baden 

Badenese 

in Badenese style 

Bahia 

Bahian 

in Bahian style 

Bale; Basle; Basel 

Bale; Basle; Basel, of 

in Bale style 

Barcelona 

Barcelonian 

in Barcelonian style 

Batavia 

Batavian 

in Batavian style 

Bavaria 

Bavarian 

in Bavarian style 

Beam 

Bearnese 

in Bearnese style 

Belgium 



GERMAN: 
arlesisch 

auf arlesische Art 
Armenien 
armenisch 
auf armenische Art 
Arras 
Arraser 

auf Arraser Art 
Asien 
asiatisch 

auf asiatische Art 
Assyrien 
assyrisch 

auf assyrische Art 
Athen 
athenisch 

auf athenische Art 
Australien 
australisch 
auf australische Art 
Osterreich 
osterreichisch 
auf osterreichische Art 
Baden 
badisch 

auf badische Art 
Bahia 
Bahianer 

auf Bahianer Art 
Basel 
Baseler 

auf Baseler Art 
Barcelona 
Barceloner 
auf Barceloner Art 
Batavia 
batavisch 

auf batavische Art 
Bayern 
bayrisch 

auf bayrische Art 
Beam 
Bearner 

auf Bearner Art 
Belgien 



81 



SPANISH: 
arles/o, os, a, as 
a la arlesa 
Armenia 

armeni/o, os, a, as 
a la armenia 
Arras 

arrasen/o, os, a, as 
a la arrasena 
Asia 

asiatic/o, os, a, as 
a la asiatica 
Asiria 

asiri/an/o, os, a , as 
a la asiriano 
Atenas 

ateniens/o, os, a, as 
a la ateniensa 
Australia 

australian/o, os, a, as 
a la australiana 
Austria 

austriac/o, os, a, as 
a la austriaca 
Bade 

baden/o, os, a, as 
a la badena 
Bahia 

bahiens/o, os, a, as 
a la bahiensa 
Basilea 

basilean/o, os, a, as 
a la basileana 
Barcelona 

barcelones/o, os, a, as 
a la barcelonesa 
Batavia 

batav/o, os, a, as 
a la batava 
Baviera 

bavar/o, os, a, as 
a la bavara 
Beam 

bearnes/o, os, a, as 
a la bearnesa 
Belgica 



82 



FRENCH: 
a la beige 
Berlin 

berlinois, -, e, es 
a la berlinois 
Bengale 

a la bengalise; bengale 
Bergen 

a la bergenne 
Bermudes, des 
a la bermudienne 
Berne 

bernois, -, es 
a la bernoise 
Boheme 

bohemien, s, ne, nes 
a la boemienne 
Bologne 

bolognais, -, e, es 
a la bolognaise 
Bordeaux 
bordelais, -, e, es 
a la bordelaise 
Bosnie 

a la bosnienne 
Boston 

a la bostoneoise 
Bourgogne 
a la bourguignonne 
Bweme 

bremois, -, e, es 
a la bremoise 
Bresil 

bresilien, s, ne, nes 
a la bresilienne 
Brunswick 
a la brunswickoise 
Bruxelles 
a la bruxelloise 
Buenos- Ayres 
a la buenosayrese 
Bukovine; Bukowine 
a la bukovinoise 
Bulgarie 
a la bulgarese 



ENGLISH : 

in Belgian style 

Berlin 

Berlin, of 

in Berlin style 

Bengal 

in Bengalese (Bengali) style 

Bergen 

in Bergen style 

Bermudas 

in Bermudian style 

Bern/e/ 

Bernese 

in Bernese style 

Bohemia 

Bohemian 

in Bohemian style 

Bologna 

Bolognese 

in Bolognese style 

Bordeaux 

Bordeaux, of 

in Bordeaux style 

Bosnia 

in Bosnian style 

Boston 

in Boston style 

Burgundy 

in Burgundian style 

Bremen 

Bremen, of 

in Bremen style 

Brazil 

Brazilian 

in Brazilian style 

Brunswick 

in Brunswick style 

Brussels 

in Brussels style 

Buenos- Aires 

in Buenos-Aires style 

Bukovina 

in Bukovinian style 

Bulgaria 

in Bulgarian style 






GERMAN: 
auf belgische Art 
Berlin 
Berliner 

auf Berliner Art 
Bengalen 

auf bengalische Art 
Bergen 

auf Bergener Art 
Bermuda 

auf Bermuder Art 
Bern 
Berner 

auf Berner Art 
Bohmen 
bohmisch 

auf bohmische Art 

Bologna 

Bologner 

auf Bologner Art 

Bordeaux 

Bordeauxer 

auf Bordeauxer Art 

Bosnien 

auf bosnische Art 

Boston 

auf Bostoner Art 

Burgund 

auf burgundische Art 

Bremen 

Bremer 

auf Bremer Art 

Brasilien 

brasilianisch 

auf brasilianische Art 

Braunschweig 

auf Braunschweiger Art 

Brussel 

auf Briisseler Art 

Buenos-Aires 

auf Bonaerenser Art 

Bukowina 

auf Buko winer Art 

Bulgarien 

auf bulgarische Art 



83 
SPANISH: 
a la belgica (belga) 
Berlin 

berlines, berlines'es, a, as 
a la berlinesa 
Bengala 

a la bengalesa^ 
Bergen 
a la bergensa 
Bermuda 
a la bermudana 
Berna 

bern/a/es/o, os, a, as 
a la bernesa 
Bohemia 
bohem/o, os, a, as; bohem- 

ic/o' os, a, as 

a la bohema 

Bolonia 

bolonies/o, os, a, as 

a la boloniesa 

Burdeos 

burdeos/o, os, a, as 

a la burdeosa 

Bosnia 

a la bosniaquesa 

Boston 

a la bostonuesa 

Borgofia 

a la borgofia 

Brema 

bremens/o f os, a, as 

a la bremensa 

Brasil 

brasilefi/o, os, a, as 

a la brasilena 

Brunswique 

a la brunswiquesa 

Bruselas 

a la bruselana 

Buenos Aires 

a la bonaerense 

Bukovina 

a la bukovinuesa 

Bulgaria 

a la bulgariana 



84 



FRENCH: 
Caire 

caireois, -, e, es 
a la caireoise 
Calabre 

calabrais, -, e, es 
a la calabraise 
Caledonie 
a la caledonienne 
Californie 
a la californienne 
Canada 

a la canadienne 
Chili 

chilien, s, ne, nes 
a la chilienne 
Chine 

a la chinoise 
Colombie 
a la colombienne 
Compiegne 
a la compiegnoise 
Constantinople 
a la constantinopolitaine 
Copenhague 
a la copenhaguenne 
Coree 

a la coreenne 
Crecy 

a la Crecy; cresienne 
Cuba 

a la cubanienne ; cubanaise ; 
[cubaine) 
Danemark 
danois, -, e, es 
a la danoise 
Dinan 

a la dinandoise 
Ecosse 

ecossais, -, e, es 
a l'ecossaise 
Egypte 

egyptien, s, ne, nes 
a Pegyptienne 
Epinal 
a la spinalienne 



ENGLISH: 
Cairo 
Cairo, of 
in Cairo style 
Calabria 

Calabrian ; Calabrese 
in Calabrian style 
Caledonia 

in Caledonian style 
California 

in Californian style 
Canada 

in Canadian style 
Chili 

Chilian ; Chilese 
in Chilian style 
China • 

in Chinese style 
Columbia 

in Columbian style 
Compiegne 
in Compiegne style 
Constantinople 
in Constantinopolitan styk 
Copenhagen 
in Copenhagen style 
Corea 

in Corean style 
Crecy 

in Crecy style 
Cuba 

in Cuban style 
Denmark 
Danish 

in Danish style 
Dinan 

in Dinan style 
Scotland 
Scotch 

in Scotch style 
Egypt 
Egyptian 
in Egyptian style 
Epinal 
in Epinal style 



85 



GERMAN: 
Cairo; Kairo 
Kairoaner 
auf Kairoaner Art 
Kalibrien 
kalabrisch 

auf kalabrische Art 
Kaledonien 
auf kaledonische Art 
Kalifornien 
auf kalifornische Art 
Kanada 

auf kanadische Art 
Chile 
chilenisch 

auf chilenische Art 
China 

auf chinesische Art 
Kolumbia 

auf kolumbianische Art 
Compiegne 

auf Compiegner Art 
Konstantinopel 
auf Konstantinopeler Art 
Kopenhagen 
auf Kopenhagener Art 
Korea 

auf koreanische Art 
Crecy 

auf Crecyer Art 
Kuba 

auf kubanische Art 
Danemark 
danisch 

auf danische Art 
Dinan 

auf Dinaner Art 
Schottland 
schottisch 

auf schottische Art 
Egypten 
egyptisch 

auf egyptische Art 
Epinal 
auf Epinaler Art 



SPANISH: 

Cairo 

cairoan/o, os, a, as 

a la cairoana 

Calabria 

calabres, es, a, as 

a la calabresa 

Caledonia 

a la caledoniana 

California 

a la californiana 

Canada 

a la canadensa 

Chili 

chilen/o, os, a, as 

a la chilefia 

China 

a la china 

Columbia 

a la columbiana 

Compiegne 

a la Compiegne 

Constantinopla 

a la constantinopolita 

Copenhagen ; Conpenhague 

a la copenhaguensa 

Corea 

a la coreana 

Crecy 

a la Crecy 

Cuba 

a la cubana 

Dinamarca 

dinamarques/o, os, a, as 

a la dinamarquesa 

Dinan 

a la Dinan 

Escocia 

escoces, es, a, as 

a la escocesa 

Egipto 

egipcian/o, os, a, as 

a la egipciana 

Epinal 

a la Epinal 



86 

FRENCH: 

Espagne 

espagnol. s, e, es 

a Pespagnole 

Finlande 

finnois, -, e, es 

a la finnoise 

Flandre 

a la flamande 

Floride 

a la floridienne (floride) 

Florence 

a la florentine 

France 

frangais, -, e, es 

a la francaise 

Frise 

a la frisonne 

Francfort 

francfortois, -, e, es 

a la francfortoise 

Gascogne 

a la gasconne 

Genes 

a la genoise 

Geneve 

a la genevoise 

Georgie 

a la georgienne 

Grece 

grec, s, grecque, s 

a la grecque 

Grenade 

a la grenadinse; grenade 

Groenland 

a la groenlandaise 

Hambourg 

hambourgois, -, e, es 

a la hambourgeoise 

Hanovre 

a la hanovrienne 

Ha vane 

havanais, -, e, es 

a la havanaise 

Hawai/i/ 



ENGLISH: 

Spain 

Spanish 

in Spanish style 

Finland 

Finnish 

in Finnish style 

Flanders 

in Flamish style 

Florida 

in Florida style 

Florence 

in Florentine style 

France 

French 

in French style 

Fri/e/sia; Friesland 

in Friesish (Fri/e/sian) 

[style 

Francfort; Frankfort 

Francfort, of 

in Francfort style 

Gascony 

in Gascon style 

Genova 

in Genoese style 

Geneva 

in Genevese style 

Georgia 

in Georgian style 

Greece 

Greek; Grecian 

in Greek style 

Granada 

in Granadian style 

Greenland 

in Greenland style 

Hamburg 

Hamburg, of 

in Hamburg style 

Hanover 

in Hanoverian style 

Havana 

Havanese 

in Havanese style 

Hawaii 



GERMAN: 
Spanien 
spanisch 

auf spanische Art * 
Finnland 

finnisch; finnlandisch 
auf finnische Art 
Flandem 

auf flamische Art 
Florida 

auf Floridaer Art 
Florenz 

auf IForentiner Art 
Frankreich 
franzosisch 
auf franzosische Art 
Friesland 

auf friesische Art 
Frankfurt 
Frankfurter 
auf Frankfurter Art 

Gascogne 

auf gascognische Art 

Genua 

auf genuesische Art 

Genf 

auf Genfer Art 

Georgia 

auf Georgische Art 

Grichenland 

grischisch 

auf grichische Art 

Granada 

auf Granadaer Art 

Gronland 

auf gronlandische Art 

Hamburg 

Hamburger 

auf Hamburger Art 

Hannover 

auf hannoversche Art 

Havana 

havanesisch 

auf havanesisch e Art 

Hawai 



87 
SPANISH: 
Espafia 

espanol, es, a, as 
a la espanola 
Finland/i/a 
finlandes, es, a, as 
a la finlandesa 
Flandes 
a la flandesa 
Florida 

a la floridanesa 
Florencia 
a la florentina 
Francia 

frances, es, a, as 
a la f ranee sa 
Frisia 

a la frisona 
Franc/o/forte 
franc/o/fortes, es, a, as 
a la francforta (francoforta ; 

francofortesa) 
Gascona 
a la gascona 
Genova 
a la genovesa 
Ginebra 
a la ginebresa 
Georgia 
a la georgina 
Grecia 

grieg/o, os, a, as 
a la griega 
Granada 
a la gradina 
Groenlandia 
a la groenlandesa 
Hamburgo 

hamburgues/o, os, a, as 
a la hamburguesa 
Hanover 
a la hanoverana 
Habana 

habaner/o, os, a, as 
a la habanera 
Havai 



88 



FRENCH: 

a l'hawaienne 

Helvetie 

a l'helvetienne 

Hollande 

hollandais, -, e, es 

a la hollandaise 

Holstein 

a la holsteinoise 

Hongrie 

hongrois, -, e, es 

a la hongroise 

Inde 

indien, s, ne, nes 

a l'indienne 

Irlande 

irlandais, -, e, es 

a l'irlandaise 

Islande 

islande, -, e, es 

a Tislandaise 

Italie 

italien, s, ne, nes 

a l'italienne 

Jamaique 

a la jamaiquaine (jamai- 

[caine) 
Japon 

japonais, -, e, es 
a la japonaise 
Lisbonne 
a la lisbonnienne 
Lombardie 
a la lombarde 

Londres 

a la londonienne 

Lorraine 

a la lorraine 

Lyon 

a la lyonnaise 

Macedonie 

a la macedonienne 

Madrid 

a la madrilene 

Malte 



ENGLISH: 
in Hawaiian style 
Helvetia 

in Helvetian style 
Holland 
Dutch 

in Dutch style 
Holstein 

in Holstein style 
Hungaria 
Hungarian 
in Hungarian style 
India 
Indian 

in Indian style 
Ireland 
Irish 

in Irish style 
Iceland 
Icelandic 

in Icelandic style 
Italy 
Italian 

in Italian style 
Jamaica 

in Jamaican style 

Japan 

Japanese 

in Japanese style 

Lisbon 

in Lisbon style 

Lombardy 

in Lombardie (Lombard) 

[style 
London 

in Londoner style 
Lorraine 

in Lorraine style 
LyOn 

in Lyonese style 
Macedonia 
in Macedonian style 
Madrid 

in Madrid style 
Malta 



89 



GERMAN: 

auf hawaische Art 

Helvetia 

auf helvetianische Art 

Holland 

hollandisch 

auf hollandische Art 

Hoi stein 

auf holsteinische Art 

Ungarn 

ungarisch 

auf ungarische Art 

Indien 

indisch 

auf indische Art 

Irland 

irlandisch 

auf irlandische Art 

Island 

Islander; islandisch 

auf islandische Art 

Italien 

italienisch 

auf italienische Art 

Jamaika 

auf Jamaikaner Art 

Japan 

japanisch 

auf japanische Art 

Lissabon 

auf Lissabonner Art 

Lombardei 

auf lombardische Art 

London 

auf Londener Art 

Lothringen 

auf lothringische Art 

Lyon 

auf lyonesische Art 

Macedonien 

auf macedonische Art 

Madrid 

auf Madrider Art 

Malta 



SPANISH: 

a la havainesa (havaiana) 

Helvetia 

a la helvetiana 

Holanda 

holandes, es, a, as 

a la hollandesa 

Holstein 

a la holsteinuesa 

Hungaria 

hungar/o, os, a, as 

a la hungara 

India 

indi/o, os, a, as 

a la india 

Irlanda 

irlandes, es, a, as 

a la irlandesa 

Islanda 

islandes, es, a, as 

a la islandesa 

Italia 

italian/o, os, a, as 

a la italiana 
Jamaica 

a la jamaicana 

Japon 

japones, es, a , as 

a la japonesa 

Lisboa 

a la lisboana 

Lombardia 

a la lombarda 

Londres 

a la londinensa ,londresa) 

Lorena 

a la lorenuesa 

Leon 

a la leonesa 

Macedonia 

a la macedonica 

Madrid 

a la madrillena 

Malta 



90 

FRENCH: 
a la maltaise 
Marengo 
a la Marengo 

Marseille 

a la marseillaise 

Maryland 

a la marylandaise 

Messine 

a la messinoise 

Mexique 

mexicain, s, e, es 

a la mexicaine 

Milan 

a la milanaise 

Moscau 

a la moscovite 

Munich 

munichois, -, e, es 

a la munichoise 

Naples 

napolitain, s, e, es 

a la napolitaine 

Nice 

a la nicoise 

Normandie 

normand, s, e, es 

a la normande 

Norvege; Norvege 

a la norvegienne 

Nevers 

a la nivernaise 

Orleans 

orleanais, -, e, es 

a l'orleanaise; a la d'Orleans 

Paris 

parisien, s, ne, nes 

a la parisienne 

Perou 

peruvien, s, ne, nes 

a la peruvienne 

Perse 

a la persane 



ENGLISH: 

in Maltese style 

Marengo 

in Marengo style 

Marseilles 

in Marseillese style 

Maryland 

in Maryland style 

Messina 

in Messina style 

Mexico 

Mexican 

in Mexican style 

Milan 

in Milanese style 

Moscow 

in Moscovy style 

Munich 

Munich, of 

in Munich style 

Naples 

Neapolitan 

in Neapolitan style 

Nice 

in Nice style 

Normandy 

Norman 

in Norman style 

Norway 

in Norwegian style 

Nevers 

in Nevers style 

Orleans 

Orleans, of 

in Orleans style 

Paris 

Parisian 

in Parisian style 

Peru 

Peruvian 

in Peruvian style 

Persia 

in Persian style 



GERMAN: 
auf Malteser (maltesische) 

[Art 
Marengo 

auf Marengoer Art 
Marseille 

auf Marseiller Art 
Maryland 

auf Marylander Art 
Messina 

auf Messinaer Art 
Mexiko 
mexikanisch 
auf mexikanische Art 
Mailand 

auf Mailander Art 
Moskau 

auf Moskauer Art 
Miinchen 
Munchener 
auf Munchener Art 
Neapel 

neapolitanisch 
auf neapolitanische Art 
Nizza 

auf Nizzaer Art 
Normandie 
normannisch 
auf normannische Art 
Norwegen 

auf norwegische Art 
Nevers 

auf Neverser Art 
Orleans 
Orleanser 
auf Orleanser Art 
Paris 

Pariser; parisisch 
auf Pariser (parische) Art 
Peru 

Peruaner; peruanisch 
auf Peruaner (peruanische) 
[Art 
Persien 
auf persische Art 



91 



SPANISH: 
a la maltesa 

Marengo 

a la Marengo 

Marsella 

a la marsellena 

Marylanda 

a l a marylandesa 

Mesina 

a la mesinaesa 

Mejico 

mejican/o, os, a, as 

a Ja mejicana 

Milano; Milan 

a la milanesa 

Moscou 

a la moscovita 

Munic 

munican/o, os, a, as 

a la municana 

Napoles 

napolitan/o, os, a, as 

a la napolitana 

Niza 

a la Niza 

Normandia 

normand/o, os, a, as 

a la normanda 

Noruega 

a la noruegana 

Nevers 

a la Nevers 

Orleans 

orleans/o, os, a, as 

a la orleansa 

Paris 

parisiense, s, -, -, 

a la parisiense 

Peru 

perugi/o, os, a, as 

a la perugia 

Persia 

a la persiana 



92 

FRENCH: 
Pologne 

polonais, -, e, es 
a la polonaise 
Portugal 
a la portugaise 
portugais, -, e, es 
Prague 

a la praguenne 
Provence 
a la provencale 
Prusse 

a la prussienne 
Reims 

a la remoise 
Rhin 

a la rhenane 
Rochelle 
a la rochelaise 
Rome 

romain, -, e, es 
a la romaine 
Russie 
a la russe 
Sardaigne 
a la sarde 
Savoie 

a la savoyarde 
Saxe 

saxon, s, ne, nes 
a la saxonne 
Scandinaves 
a la scandinavienne 
Seville 

a la sevillane 
Siberie 

a la siberienne 
Suisse 

a la suisse/se/ 
Suede 

suedois, -, e, es 
a la suedoise 
Soissons 

a la soissonnaise 
Thuringe 
a la thuringienne 



ENGLISH: 

Poland 

Polish 

in Polish style 

Portugal 

Portuguese 

in Portuguese style 

Prague 

in Prague style 

Provence 

in Provencal style 

Prussia 

in Prussian style 

Reims 

in Reims style 

Rhine; Rhene 

in Rhenish style 

Rochelle 

in Rochelle style 

Roma 

Roman 

in Roman style 

Russia 

in Russian style 

Sardinia 

in Sardinian style 

Savoy 

in Savoy/ard/ style 

Saxony 

Saxon 

in Saxon style 

Scandinavia 

in Scandinavian style 

Sevilla 

in Sevillan style 

Siberia 

in Siberian style 

Switzerland 

in Swiss style 

Sweden 

Swedish 

in Swedish style 

Soissons 

in Soisson style 

Thuringia 

in Thuringian style 



GERMAN: 
Polen 

polnisch 

auf polnische Art 
Portugal 

portugisisch 

auf portugisische Art 

Prag 

auf Prager Art 

Provence 

auf provencalische Art 

Preussen 

auf preussische Art 

Reims 

auf Reimser Art 

Hhein 

auf rheinische Art 

Rochelle 

auf Rocheller Art 

Rom 

romisch 

auf romische Art 

Russland 

auf russische Art 

Sardinien 

auf sardinische Art 

S a vo i en ; S a voyen 

auf savoyische Art 

Sachsen 

sachsisch 

auf sachsische Are 

Skandinawien 

auf scandinawische Art 

Sevilla 

auf Seviller Art 

Sibirien 

auf sibirische Art 

Schweiz 

auf Schweizer Art 

Schweden 

schwedisch 

auf schwedische Art 

Soisson 

auf soissonische Art 

Thuringen 

auf thuringisch Art 



SPANISH: 

Polonia 

polac/o, os, a , as 
a la polaca 
Portugal 

portugues, es, a, as 
a la portuguesa 
Praga 

a la pragana 
Provenza 
a la provenzala 
Prusia 

a la prusiana 
Reims 
a la Reims 
Renne 
a la Renne 
Rochela 
a la rochelana 
Roma 

roman/o, os, a, as 
a la romana 
Rusia 
a la rusa 
Cerdena 
a la sarda 
Saboya 

a la saboyana 
Sajonia 

sajon, es, a, as 
a la sajona 

Escandinavia ; Escandia 
a la escandinava 
Sevilla 

a la sevillana 
Siberia 

a la siberiana 
Suiza 
a la suiza 
Suecia 

suec/o, oa, a, as 
a la sueca 
Soisson 
a la Soisson 
Turingia 
a la turingiana 



93 



94 



FRENCH: 
Toscane 
a la toscane 
Toul 

toulois, -, e, es 

a la touloise 

Toulon 

toulonnais, -, e, es 

a la toulonnaise 

Toulouse 

a la toulousaine 

Touraine 

a la tourangelle 

Tours 

a la toursaine 

Tripoli 

a la tripolitaine 

Turin 

a la turinoise 

Turquie 

turk, s, turque, s, 

a la turque 

Tyrol 

tyrolien, s, ne, nes 

a la tyrolienne 

Varsovie 

varsovien, s, ne, nes 

a la varsovienne 

Venise 

a la venitienne 

Versailles 

a la versaillaise 

Vienne 

viennois, -, e, es 

a la viennoise 

Virginie 

a la virginienne 

Westphalie 

a la westphalienne 

Zurich 

a la zurichoise 



ENGLISH: 
Tuscany 
in Tuscan style 
Toul 
Toul, of 
in Toul style 
Toulon 
Toulon, of 
in Toulon style 
Toulouse 

in Toulouse style 
Touraine 
in Touraine style 
Tours 

in Tours style 
Tripoli 

in Tripolitan style 
Turin 

in Turin style 
Turkey 
Turkish 

in Turkish style 
Tyrol 
Tyrolese 

in Tyrolese style 
Warsaw 
Warsaw, of 
in Warsaw style 
Venice 

in Venetian style 
Versailles 
in Versailles 
Vienna 
Viennese 

in Viennese style 
Virginia 

in Virginian style 
Westphalia 
in Westphalian style 
Zurich 
in Zurich style 



95 



GERMAN: 
Toscana 

auf Toscaner Art 
Toul 
Touler 

auf Touler Art 
Toulon 
Touloner 

auf Touloner Art 
Toulouse 

auf Toulouser Art 
Touraine 

auf Tourainer Art 
Tours 

auf Tourser Art 
Tripoli 

auf tripolitanische Art 
Turin 

auf Turiner Art 
Tiirkei 
turkisch 

auf turkische Art 
Tyrol 
Tyroler 

auf Tyroler Art 
Warschau 
Warschauer 
auf Warschauer Art 
Venedig 

auf venetianische Art 
Versaille 

auf Versailler Art 
Wien 
Wiener 

auf Wiener Art 
Virginia 

auf virginische Art 
Westphalen 
auf westphalische art 
Zurich 
auf Ziiricher Art 



SPANISH: 
Toscana 
a la toscana 
Toul; Tol 
Toul, de 
a la Toul 
Talon 
Talon, de 
a la Talon 
Tolosa 
a la Tolosa 
Torena 
a la Torena 
Turs; Tors 
a la Turs 
Tripoli 

a la tripolitana 
Turin a 
a la turiana 
Turquia 
turc/o, os, a, as 
<a la turca 
Tirol 

tiroles, es, a, as 
a la tirolesa 
Varsovia 

varsovian/o, os, a, as 
a la varsoviana 
Venecia 
a la veneciana 
Versailles 
a la versallesa 
Viena 

vienes, es, a, as 
a la vienesa 
Virginia 
a la virginiana 
Vestfalia 
a la vestfaliana 
Zuric/o/ 
a la Zuric (zurica) 



Personal Nouns * 



FRENCH: 
a PAlpin 
a l'Argenteuil 

l'Astor 

l'Auber 

la Balzac 

la Bardoux 
a la Baumann 

la Bayard 

la Beaufort 
a la Bechamel 
a la Becherel 
a la Benedict 
a la Benoit 
a la Beranger 
a la Berchoux 
a la Bercy 
a la Blaine 
a la Bougeuil 
a la Broglio 
a la Camerani 
a la Canino 

la Careme 

la Cavour 

la Chambord 

la Chamberry 
a la Chantilly 
a la Chateaubriand 
a la Chatillon 
a la Chatre 
a la Cher on 
a la Chesterfield 
a la Chevreuse 
a la Chimay 
a la Chviry 
a la Choiseul 
a la Clamart 
a la Clavel 
a la Clermont 



ENGLISH 
Alpin style 
Argenteuil style 
Astor style 
Auber style 
Balzac style 

etc. 



* Personal nouns are not translated 



The Meaning of the Personal Nouns, Etc. 97 



GERMAN: 


SPANISH 


nach Alpin 


a la Alpin 


nach Argenteuil 


a la Argenteuil 


nach Astor 


a la Astor 


nach Auber 


a la Auber 


nach Balzac 


a la Balzac 


etc. 


etc. 



98 




FRENCH: 


a 


la Cleveland 


a 


la Colbert 


a 


la Conde 


a 


la Cussy 


a 


la Daumont 


2, 


la Demidow (Demidoff) 


a 


la Delmonico 


a 


la Derby- 


a 


la Dubarry (du Barry) 


a 


la Dumas 


a 


la Duroc 


a 


l'Elliot 


a 


l'Esterhazy 


a 


la Garibaldi 


a 


la Genin 


a 


la Gutenberg 


a 


la Humbert 


a 


la Humboldt 


a 


la Jackson 


a 


la Katoff 


a 


la Kirkham 


a 


la Kursel 


a 


la Lakme 


a 


la Leoncavallo 


a 


la Leontine 


a 


la Londonderry 


a 


la Lucullus 


a 


la Magellan 


a 


la Marceau 


a 


la Marigny 


a 


la Marly 


a 


la Massenet 


a 


la Metternich 


a 


la Mirabeau 


a 


la Mireille 


a 


la Mirepoix 


a 


la Moliere 


a 


la Montebello 


a 


la Montglas 


a 


la Montmorency 


a 


la Montpensier 


a 


la Montreuil 


a 


la Morgan 


a 


la Mornay 



ENGLISH: 

etc. 



GERMAN: 
etc. 



99 



SPANISH: 
etc. 



100 The Art of Naming Dishes 

a la Napoleon ENGLISH: 

a la Nelson etc * 

a la Nesselrode 

a l'Orly; a la d'Orly 

a l a Palmerston 

a la Parmentier 

a la Pompadour 

a la Rachel 

a la Rejane 

a la Richelieu 

a la Robert 

a la Ronan 

a la Rossini 

a la Savarin 

a la Sevigne 

a la Soubise 

a la Stanley 

a la St. Denis 

a la St. Germain 

a la Talma 

a la Tortoni 

a la Tosca 

a la Vanderbilt 

a l a Vatel 

a la Washington 

a la Wissman 

a la Xavier 



The Meaning of the Personal Nouns, Etc. 101 

GERMAN: SPANISH: 

etc, etc. 



Other Style Expressions 



FRENCH: 

alphabetique 

ambassadeur 

ambassadrice 

amirale 

ancienne /mode/ 

arlequine 

art nouveau 

belle fermiere 

belle Gabrielle 

belle vue 

bergere 

bonne femme 

boulangere 

bouchere 

bouquetiere 

bourgeoise 

bucheronne 

burgrave 

capucine 

cardinale 

charcutiere 

chasseur 

chevriere 

comtesse 

demi-deuil 

diable 

diplomate 

duchesse 

ecarlate 

fermiere 

financiere 

forestiere 

gastronome 

gentilhomme 

grand'mere 

hoteliere 

hussarde 

imperatrice 

imperiale 

ivoire 



ENGLISH: 

alphabetical 

ambassador 

ambassadress 

admiral 

old custom 

harlequin 

new art 

pretty lessee/'s wife/ 

pretty Gabriella 

pretty view 

sheepherdess 

good women 

baker/'s wife/ 

butcher/' s wife/ 

flower girl 

/plain/ family 

wood-cutter/'s wife/ 

burgrave 

capuchin 

cardinal 

pork butcher/'s wife/ 

hunter 

goatherdess 

countess 

half mourning 

devil ; deviled 

diplomatist 

duchess 

scarlet 

farmer/'s wife/ 

financier 

forester/'s wife/ 

gastronome 

nobleman 

grandmother 

hotelkeeper 

hussar 

empress 

imperial 

ivory-like 



103 



GERMAN: 
alphabetisch 
Gesandten-Art 
Gesandtin-Art 
Admiral 

nach alter Sitte 
Harlekin 
neukiinstlerisch 
schone Pachterin 
schone Gabrielle 
im schoner Ansicht 
Hirtin 

Liebfrauen-Art 
Backerin 
Schlachterfrau 
Blumenmadchen 
biirgerlich 
Holzhauer/in/ 
Burggraf 
Kapuziner 
Kardinal 

Schweinemetzger/in/ 
Jager-Art 
Ziegenhirt/in/ 
Grafin 
Halbtrauer 
Teufels-Art 
Diplomat 
Herzog/in/ 
scharlachfarbig 
Pachter/in/ 
Finanzmann 
F6rster/in/ 
gastronomisch 
Edelmann 
Grossmutter-Art 
Hausmeister/in/ 
Husar 
Kaiserin 
kaiserlich 
Elfenbein 



SPANISH: 

alfabetica 

ambajador 

ambajadora 

almirante 

uso- vieja 

arlequin 

arte nuevo 

arrentaria bonita 

Gabriella bonita 

buena vista 

pastora 

senora gusta 

panadera 

carnicera 

nifia de flores 

ciudadana 

lenadora 

burgrave 

capuchina 

cardenal 

carnicera de cerdo 

cazador 

cabrera 

condesa 

medio luto 

diablo 

diploma tica 

duquesa 

escarlata 

arrendataria 

hacendista 

alcalda 

gastronomo 

hidalgo 

abnela 

hostelera 

husar 

imperatriz 

imperial 

marfilena 



104 



The Art of Naming Dishes 



FRENCH 
marchand de vin 
mariniere 
menagere 
meuniere K 
millonnaire 
mode 

montagnarde 
national 
pouvre homme 
pastourelle 
petit due 
petite Marie 
reine 

vegetarienne 
velours 
vert-pre 
vigneronne 
villageoise 
zingara 



ENGLISH: 
wine merchant 
mariner 
housekeeper 
miller/'s wife/ 
millionaire 
mode; modish 
highlander 
national 
poor man 

young sheepherdess 
little duke 
little Marie 
queen 
vegetarian 
velvet-like 
green meadow 
vintager 
country 
Gipsy 



The Meaning of the Personal Nouns, Etc. 105 



GERMAN: 

Wein-Kaufmann 

Matrosen-Art 

Haush alter/in/ 

Miiller/in/ 

Millionar 

modisch 

Hochlander 

national 

armen Mannes-Art 

•Hirtenmadchen 

kl. Herzog 

kl. Marie 

Konigin 

vegetarisch 

samtartig 

wiesengrun 

Winzerin 

landlich 

Zigeuner-Art 



SPANISH: 
comerciente de vino 
marinero 
ama de Haves 
millonario 
molinera 
moda 

montanesa 
national 
hombre pobre 
pastorcilla 
duque chico 
Maria chica 
regina 
vegetariana 
terciopelo 
pradera verdura 
vinadora 
campreste 
gitana 



Concluding Words 



*^. 



Mainly for the Compilers of the 
Bills of Fare 



In the foregoing chapters it has been 
proved that many dishes are unsatisfactorily 
named, and a way is shown whereby dishes can 
be given names, which are intelligible to every- 
body. Since indeed the chefs, stewards, etc., 
generally write the lists of dishes which go into 
print and perhaps have to be translated, it is 
easily understood that intelligible bills of fare 
and menus depend much upon their good will. 
One cannot expect that a waiter, menu-writer 
or printer shall render unintelligible names in- 
telligible and translate them. Abbreviated 
names perhaps cannot be found in books or per- 
haps one dish may be given in the place of an- 
other which does not compare with the one 
which is originally meant. But for the com- 
pilers of bills of fare it would be only a matter 
of a few minutes to write down the names of 
dishes according to the given rules in this book. 

For instance a chef may prepare a dish 
which is given in a cook book as Dindon a VEs- 
pagnol (Turkey in Spanish style). In this case 
the chef, or the maker of the bill of fare, should 
not write down the name as given in the book 



Concluding Words 107 

but write it in a more detailed way. If the 
turkey is stuffed and roasted then he should 
mention it and also mention the side dishes. In 
this instance he should write as follows: 

! Stuffed, Boast Turkey 
Peas and Carrots Madeira Sauce 

But there are also chefs who are not well 
versed in English. They should write the names 
in, let us say, French and in the same manner 
as has been stated before. Simple French is 
always easy to translate. Let us say a chef 
writes as follows 

FRENCH : 

Consomme a l'arlequin. 

Filet de Boeuf a PEspagnole. 

Longe de Veau a la Bechamel. 

Dinde a la Portugaise. 

In this case the translator would trans- 
late as follows : 

Consomme, Harlequin style. 

Tenderloin of Beef, Spanish. 

Loin of Veal, Bechamel. 

Turkey-hen, Portuguese. 

If a chef wrote the same dishes as given 
below then the translation also would be plain 
and could be easily made. 

FRENCH: 

Consomme aux Quenelles de Volaille. 

Filet de Boeuf pique, roti au Macaroni, 

Sauce Espagnole. 

Longe de Veau rotie, Bechamel. 

Dinde farcie, rotie, Portugaise. 

ENGLISH: 

Consomme with Chicken Balls. 

Larded, roast Tenderloin of Beef 

Macaroni Spanish Sauce. 

Roast Loin of Veal, Bechamel. 

Stuffed, roast Turkey-hen, Portuguese 



108 The Art of Naming Dishes 

For the makers of bills of fare and menus 
the given rules come into consideration primar- 
ily. A certain successive way of naming dishes 
should always be followed. 

Leg of Veal. 
Roast Leg of Veal. 
Larded, roast Leg of Veal. 
Stuffed, larded, roast Leg of Veal. 

Roast Leg of Veal w. Cream. 

Larded, roast Leg of Veal w. Cream. 

Stuffed, larded, roast Leg of Veal w. Cream. 

Roast Leg of Veal w. Mixed Vegetables & Tomato 
Sauce. 

Larded, roast Leg of Veal w. Mixed Vegetables & 
Tomato Sauce. 

Stuffed, larded, roast Leg of Veal w. Mixed Vege- 
tables & Tomato Sauce. 

Roast Leg of Veal, Monpensier. 
Larded, roast Leg of Veal, Monpensier. 
Stuffed, larded, roast Leg of Veal, Montpensier. 

The same successive way can be followed 
with such dishes that have a name which in- 
cludes their preparations. 

Stew. 

Veal Stew, 
Lamb Stew. 
Beef Stew. 
Veal-Lamb Stew. 
Veal-Beef Stew. 
Lamb Stew, Irish. 
Lamb Stew, American. 
Lamb Stew, English. 
Veal-Beef Stew, Irish. 
Veal-Beef Stew, American 
Veal-Beef Stew, English. 
etc. 

To this one may reply that e. g. the roast- 
ing and stuffing can be done in different ways 



Concluding Words 109 

and therefore style designations mnst be used. 
What does such a designation mean to the av- 
erage guest in such a case? Ninety times out 
of a hundred it would mean nothing at all to 
them. A guest does not care whether he gets 
a piece of veal Avhich is prepared with a few 
spices, or other little things, more or less. This 
is simply the cooks' matter. If such items in 
preparing food, would be designated with style 
names then the list of names would be endless ; 
there are not even enough words in ths world 
to name them all. Before using a style designa- 
tion one rather should call a dish by its right 
name. If e. g. the cooking is done with an in- 
gredient that changes the taste much more from 
that of plain cooking, let us say red wine. The 
place which is perhaps occupied by a style de- 
signation can be filled out much better with the 
words red w i n e. But if the latter together 
with the main preparation is left out to make 

place for a certain i n style or 

a la so and so then it is absolutely sin- 
ful to withhold the most important items from 
the guests. As to the fillings it must be added 
that is is not necessary at all to express these 
by a separate name. Guests will not know 
what kind of a filling is meant ; for them it is 
enough to know that a food is stuffed. If one 
should designate a filling with the term Ital- 
ian, E o y a 1, etc., the guest would not even 
know that the food was stuffed. The simple 
words filled or stuffed says much 
more to them, and therefore it should be domi- 
nating. 

As to the various style designations and 
their comprehension it may be easily asserted 
that ninety per cent of them are not even tinder- 



110 The Art of Naming Dishes 

stood by men of the trade. Could a person tell 
what the following style designations meant 
without looking into a book? 

Loin of Veal, Spanish /Style/. 

L e g of Mutton, Dordcaux /St yle/. 

Tenderloin of Beef, Westphalian /Style/. 

Tenderloin of Beef, Portuguese /Style/. 

Sirloin of Beef, Spanish /Style/. 

Mackerel, Flemish /Style/. 

Sole, Soubise /Style/. 

Roast Goose, Mecklenburg /Style/. 

Would you expect to find the following 
names for the same dishes? 

Larded, roast Loin of Veal, Spanish Sauce 
Larded, roast Tenderloin of Beef, Westphalian, 

[/Garniture/. 

Roast Tenderloin of Beef, Stuffed Tomatoes. 

Roast Sirloin of Beef, Spanish Sauce. 

Stuffed, fried Mackerel. 

Boiled, glassed Salmon on Rioo, Chambord /Garnituro/ . 

Fried Sole with Onion Sauce or Onion Puree. 
Stuffed, roast Goose with Red Cabbage & Sausages. 

These few instances, which could be en- 
larged a thousandfold, show plainly that the 
style designations of tq-day are not satisfactory. 
It is really no wonder that guests often read 
high sounding names, give an order, and then 
are disappointed when only "plain" dishes are 
served, which they know are quite differently 
called in simple English. It is also natural for 
guests to say that the restaurant men give such 
names purposely to get higher prices though this 
is rarely intended. One also need not be sur- 
prised if the comic papers take advantage of 
such names, especially if they are mixed Avith 
foreign terms ; and even the theatres make fun 
of them. There certainly isn't any business 



Concluding Words 111 

that furnishes so much food for laughter as the 
restaurant trade and this to a large extent on 
account of the naming. The restaurant men 
alone are responsible in the future, if this con- 
tinues, because the existing evils can be helped. 
The present method of naming dishes must be 
brought into a logical and sensible form by us- 
ing certain rules. To realize how far away we 
have gone from intelligible naming can be seen 
by the great Careme writing in Ms earlier days 
Potage de petit sagou blanc lies au consomme. 
This is certainly too long for modern bills of 
fare and it was abbreviated to Consomme au 
sagou blanc or Consomme au sagou. And if 
the French write simply Potage puree de pois 
and Gateau de poisson, sauce t ornate for Potage 
a la puree de pois and Gateau de poisson a la 
sauce de tomates we also find it Intelligible. 
So is: 

"Cochon de lait a la broche, russe," 
"Cochon de lait farci, russe." 
"Cochon de lait froid, russe." 
"Cochon de lait roti, russe." 

But if the four dishes are simply called 
Cochon de lait, russe then it is unintelligible and 
not correct. And if all the following for the 
same chestnut pudding are called Ponding am- 
bassadrice, Ponding castellane, Ponding Cas- 
tellane, Ponding Castillanc then this surely is 
a nonsense. 

A thick volume could be filled with de- 
tailed information which would make the men 
of the trade marvel at the medly of culinary 
names. The writer of this treatise has ascer- 
tained in one case that 59 different names in 
four languages were found in books and on table 
cards for one and the same dish and only 11 of 



112 The Art of Naming Dishes 

them described in some measure the right thing. 
One does not need to wonder at this if one ob- 
serves how names of dishes are sometimes treat- 
et by professional men. It happens a thousand 
times that the real designations are purposely 
left out in order to make room for others which 
satisfy the vanity of certain persons. Some 
cooks prepare dishes a little differently from 
given recipes and give them a new name. Often 
they are given mysterious, fantastic and un- 
heard of names which have no right to be linked 
with culinary designations. The result is that 
the culinary language of today is so rich that 
all compiled names would fill as many volumes 
and as large as • thjose of the Encyclopaedia 
Brjtanica. Seventy-five per cent of these names 
belong in the waste basket. To understand 
this statement one only needs to take several 
cook books and bills of fare and compare the 
meaning of some style designations and it will 
be seen that many of them have exactly the same 
meaning, though the names are entirely differ- 
ent. One must come to the conclusion that style 
designations are of value only if they have an 
unchangeable meaning, otherwise they remain 
that which most of them are today, riddles. 
After going through a dozen books I was unable 
to find hundreds of names which appeared on 
bills of fare. There is for instance : Carbonade 
a la nivernaise. Is there any one who can tell 
me what this means? Garbonade to some people 
means a roast, no matter if of beef or of any other 
animal; to others it means a cutlet or a chop, 
mainly of pork. Then why not call it so? And 
if a sauce is meant by a la nivernaise call it 
Never s Sauce; if a complicated garnish 
Severs /s t y 1 e/ ; if only one kind of vege- 
table leave out the expression entirely and write 



Concluding Words 113 

with. Carrots, with Turnips, etc. 
That is intelligible naming while the former is 
a riddle which changes the bill of fare into a 
useless scrap of paper. 

It is of course understood that in some 
cases it is best to call some dishes by names 
which do not indicate the real ingredient to all 
guests, A guest, for instance, is fond of ram's 
stones (wedder stones) will also understand 
this by the designation L a m b's f r y. This 
name covers in a way a "public secret" and saves 
some guests from being shocked. And if the 
genius of a chef disguises onions, garlic, and 
other things that are not liked by many in such 
a masterful way that no one will suspect the 
real thing but turn haters of such dishes into 
admirers, it would certainly be foolish to men- 
tion the items on bills of fare. 

Because the cooks use certain rules in 
t-ooking and follow up certain practical ways in 
preparing great and perfect dishes from a few 
elements into a numberless variety, they also 
would do a great thing by helping to apply cer- 
tain rules in the naming of dishes. If this is 
not done, then the time is not far distant when 
the entire naming will lead to extremes by call- 
ing dishes by style names only. To some extent 
this is already done, and should be avoided. We 
cannot demand that guests shall take a special 
course in order to study culinary expressions, 
that they may be able to understand a bill of 
fare. If the chefs think it practical to use short 
technical expressions in the kitchen let them do 
sfc>, but then they also must allow us to be prac- 
tical in the dining room, which means that the 
dishes should first of all be named with their 



114 The Art of Naming Dishes 

main ingredients and styles of preparation. 
That is what the guests want. 

As we approach the end Ave cannot help 
mentioning that there are some hotel and res- 
taurant men who try their best to offer their 
guests dishes in plain English. That sometimes 
wrong translations and foreign words appear on 
their bills of fare is mainly due to the fact that 
the right names are not known. To this the 
dictionaries that will follow and the little work 
on hand may be a help. 

To sum it up there is shown a way here 
of briefly naming dishes and making them intel- 
ligible without the possibility of mistaking one 
dish for another. But to make tlie rules a stan- 
dard arrangement would need first of all the 
help of the chefs, stewards, etc. They have in 
the future an easy but very gratifying work be- 
fore them. What is suggested here is the har- 
monious working of the makers of bills of fare 
and the dining-room management, and the un- 
derstanding of the practical appliance of intel- 
ligible writing. Less trouble in the 
dining room means less trou- 
ble in the kitchen; and the whole is 
to the advantage of the gues.ts, the kitchen and 
restaurant employees and also to the proprie- 
tors i or whom if saves much money, as it stops 
the waste of food to a large extent. It is to 
their mutual benefit. Therefore let the aim be : 

Intelligible bills of fare 
for guests in plain English 
by naming the dishes with the 
principal ingredients and prin- 
ciple styles of preparation. 



Rules of Grammar 

of 

Four Languages 

The grammar for the culinary languages 
is easy enough and given in such a simple man- 
ner that it will take but a short time for all 
to understand. We will quote the items of the 
French language first, as most translations are 
made from French into other languages. 

Articles and Prepositions 





French : 




English : 


1. 


de (d') 








de la (de 1') 


1. 


from, of, with, in 




du 








des 






2. 


au 








aux 


2. 


with 




a la (a T) 






3. 


en 


3. 


in, as, like of 


4. 


et 


4. 


and 


5. 


ou 


5. 


or 




Spanish : 




German : 


1. 


de, con, en 


1. 


aus, von, mit, in 


2. 


con 


2. 


mit 


3. 


en, como, como de 


3. 


in, wie von 


4. 


y 


4. 


und 


5. 


6, u 


5. 


oder 



116 The Art of Naming Dishes 



Instances 

French : English : 

Fromage de Francfort; [Cheese from Frankfort]; 

Fromage francfortois Frankfort Cheese 

Fromage d' Amerique; [Cheese from America]; 

Fromage americain American Cheese 

Fromage de la France; [Cheese from France]; 

Fromage francais French Cheese 

Fromage de PAndalousie; [Cheese from Andalusia]; 

Fromage andalous Andalusian Cheese 

Fromage du Rhin [Cheese from the Rhine 

(Rhene)]; Rhenish Cheese 
Fromages des Alpes [Cheese from the Alps] ; 

Alpine Cheese 

Spanish: German: 

Queso de Francforte; [Kase aus Frankfurt] ; 

Queso francforto Frankfurter Kase 

Queso de America; [Kase aus Amerika] ; 

Queso americano Amerikanischer Kase 

Queso de Francia ; [Kase aus Frankreich] ; 

Queso frances Franzosischer Kase 

Queso de Andalucia; [Kase aus Andalusien] ; 

Queso andaluz Andalusischer Kase 

Queso de Rin (Rhin, Rene) [Kase vom Rhein] ; 

Rheinischer Kase 
Queso de/los/Alpes [Kase von den Alpen] ; 

Queso verde de/los/Alpes Alpen-Kase; Krauterkase 

To designate the original home of a pro- 
duct the French write de, d y , de la, d V, du or des 
with the proper name following or they use the 
adjectives of the proper names without the ar- 
ticle just as in English, but with the difference 
that the adjectives follow the name of the pro- 
duct. On bills of fare the adjectives are more 
commonly used. iAs to the use of the articles, 
mark the following rules : 

If a word begins with a vowel (a, e, i, o, 
u,) or silent h de and de la must be apostroph- 
ized (d', de V). 

De has its place before all words which 
are masculine and in the singular. 



Rules of Grammar in Four Languages 117 

De la (or apostrophized de V) has its 
place before all words which are feminine and 
in the singular. 

Des is written before all words in the 
plural. 

On bills of fare de la and des is not writ- 
ten but simply de as far as names of cities and 
countries come into consideration. But before 
all names of rivers, lakes, islands and moun- 
tains du must be written, before all masculine 
words in the singular, de la (de V) before all 
feminine words in the singular, and des before 
all words in the plural as vin du Rhin, vin d e 
la Loire, vin de la Moselle, heroes des Alpes, etc. 
If a masculine word in the singular begins with 
a vowel or silent h then d' is written instead du 
as d' Hudson, d y East River, etc. 

As to the adjectives see later explanation. 

jln Spanish the using of the article is as 
in French if the original home of a product is 
designated or the adjectives in its place is used. 
The Spanish prepositions del, los, las, etc., do 
not come into consideration on bills of fare. De 
is never apostrophized. 

In English and German the expressions 
cheese from, Kase aas, Kdse vom, Kdsc 
von den, are never used on bills of fare, but are 
given in instances only to show the verbal trans- 
lation. )Also in French and Spanish the using 
of adjectives is more universal. 



118 The Art of Naming Dishes 

French: English: 

Roulade de boeuf Beef roll (roulade) ; Roll of beef 

Pouding de pain Bread pudding; [Pudding of bread] 

Puree d'artichauts Artichoke puree; Puree of artichokes 

Sauce de chocolat Chocolate sauce; [Sauce of chocolate] 

Boudin de foie Liver sausage; [Sausage of Liver] 

Mayonnaise de poisson; Mayonnaised fish; Fish in Mayonnaise; 

Poisson en mayonnaise; Fish with Mayonnaise; 

Poisson a la mayonnaise 
Caisse de poule; 

Poule en caisse Casket/ed/ chicken; Chicken in Casket 

Spanish: German: 

Arrollado de vaca Rindfleisch-Rolle; Rolle von Rindfleisch 

Pudin de pan Brotpudding; Brot-Pudding ; 

[Pudding von Brot] 
Salsa de chocolate Schokoladen-Tunke ; 

[Tunke von Schokolade] 
salchicha de higado Leberwurst; [Wurst von Leber] 

Pescado en mayonesa ; Majonesierter Fisch ; Fisch in Majonese ; 

Pescado con mayonesa Fisch mit Majonese 

Gallina en cajita Huhnfleisch in Kastchen 

/To designate the main ingredient of a 
dish in French and Spanish one writes de mean- 
ing of and von in English and German. In 
French de nmst be apostrophized before words 
beginning with a vowel or silent h. In English 
and German there are two ways of designating 
the main ingredient as can be seen in the given 
instances. On bills of fare in English the shor- 
ter expressions are dominating and some are 
not used at all like e. g. sausage of liver; in 
German only the shorter designates are used. 

The expressions in French Mayonnaise 
de poisson and Caisse de poule mean that 
not the mayonnaise and casket alone are to be 
understood but the entire dish that is served 
with mayonnaise or in a casket. 

French: English: 

Potage au celeri Soup with celery 

Maquereau aux herbes Mackerel with herbs 

Sauce a Testragon Ham with sourcrout 

Jambon a la choucroute Tarragon sauce; [Sauce w. Tarragon] 

Sauce au chocolat Chocolate sauce; [Sauce w. chocolate] 

Boudin au foie Liver sausage; [Sausage w. Liver] 



Rules of Grammar of Four Languages 119 

Spanish : German : 

Sopa con apio Suppe mit Selerie 

Escombro con hierbas Makrele mit Krautern 

Jamon con berza acida Schinken mit Sauerkraut 

[Salsa con estragon]; Dragon-Tunke; 

Salsa de estragon [Tunke mit Dragon] 

[Salsa con chocolate]; Schokoladen-Tunke ; [Tunke mit 

Salsa de chocolate Schokolade] 

Salchicha de higado Leberwurst; [Wurst mit Leber] 

To express secondary ingredients of a 
dish the French use the forewords, au, aux, a la 
(a V) e. g., it shonld not he written gateau de 
bananes but gateau aux bananes because it is 
not a cake made o f bananas but a cake made 
with bananas. Beignets de bananes is correct 
because the fritters are mainly made of bananas 
and the cover of baked dough is secondary only. 
Sauce de chocolat is a sauce of, or mainly made 
of chocolate while sauce au chocolat is one which 
contains only a little chocolate to give it a choc- 
olate taste. Potage a la creme au celeri is a 
cream soup which contains celery. If it were 
a cream soup of celery it would be called potage 
a la creme de celeri. Mayonnaise a la poule is 
a mayonnaise which contains chicken meat and 
mayonnaise aux capres is one that contains ca- 
pers. For some dishes de and a:'., aux, a la can 
be used if it is doubtful that the element to name 
is the main contents as e. g. boudin de foie or 
boudin au foie though the using of de is better 
in such cases. 

In regard to the using of au, aux, a la 
(a P),note the following rules: 

au has its place always before words 
which are masculine and in the singular. Ex- 
ceptions take place if such words begin with a 
vowel when a V must be written, a V abricot but 
not au abricot, etc. 



120 The Art of Naming Dishes 

aux has its place always before words 
which are in the plural also if such are mascu- 
line or feminine, aux abricots but not au ab- 
bricots or a Vdbricots, etc. 

a la or apostrophized before a word be- 
ginning with a vowel or silent h has its place 
always before words feminine and in the singu- 
lar, a la moelle; a la creme; a Fail, etc. 

In English, Spanish, and German with, 
con, mil is written. But for certain dishes the 
prepositions are not used as is shown in the 
given instances. 

French : English : 

Fromage a la francfortoise Cheese in Frankfort style 

Fromage a 1' americaine Cheese in American style 

Sauce a la Careme Sauce in Careme style 

Sauce a la mode Beef in modish style 

Spanish : German : 

Queso a la franc/o/forta Kase auf amerikanische Art 

Queso a la americana Kase auf Frankfurter Art 

Salsa a la Careme Tunke nach Careme 

Vaca a la moda Rindfleisch nach der Mode 

To express the style of a dish the French 
write a la (a V) which is the abbreviation of a la 
maniere (mode) and in Spanish one also writes 
a la which is the abbreviation of a la manera 
(moda) whereby the Spanish a la is newly writ- 
ten without the accent over the a. The follow- 
ing designations have the same meaning. In 
French as also in Spanish capital letters are 
usually printed without the accents. 

French: English: 

Fromage a la maniere (mode) _, . , , 

d'Amerique^ heese in American style 
Fromage a la maniere americaine 

Fromage a Tamericaine Cheese, American style 

Fromage, americaine Cheese, American 



Rules of Grammar in Four Languages 121 

Spanish: German: 

Queso a la manera (moda) de America^.. , . , 

Queso a la manera (moda) americana ase auf amerikan ische Art 
Queso a la americana Kase, amerikanische Art 

Queso, americana Kase, amerikanisch 

As to the naming of styles, the following 
must be observed. If we write American 
Cheese then we understand the well known 
store cheese, but if we write Cheese, Am- 
erican then it is a cheese made in the kitchen 
or pantry of a certain kind of cheese with eggs, 
spices, etc., a recipe that perhaps had its origin 
in America. Aveal chop in Vienna 
style or veal collop, Vienna 
had its original name from the city in which 
the dish was prepared first, etc., On bills of 
fare we now often meet with names as Vienna 
collop; Victoria pudding; Mary- 
land salad, etc. As a rule this construc- 
tion of words can be used as we know that the 
names given to the dishes mean style designa- 
tion. But when it comes to eatables as in the 
cases of the above named cheese, care has to be 
taken that the right thing is expressed. ^ 

French : English : 

Poule en mayonnaise Chicken in mayonnaise 

Veau en cari Veal in curry 

Potage en tortue Mock turle soup; Soup like 

of turtle 

Carottes et pois Carrots and peas 

Poisson ou viande Fish or meat 

Spanish : German : 

Gallina en mayonesa Huhnfleisch in Majonese 

Ternero en cari Kalbfleisch in Kari 

Sopa de tortuga ficticia; Falsche Schildkroten-Suppe ; 

Sopa como de tortuga Suppe wie von Shildkrote 

Zanahorias y guisantes Mohren und Erbsen 

Pescado 6 carne Fisch oder Fleisch 



122 The Art of Naming Dishes 

In conjunction with this we must add that 
en in French can sometimes have the meaning 
of a la maniere to express the form, the looks or 
the taste of a dish. If one reads e. g. potage en 
tortue then it means that the soup is made like 
a turtle soup. So the following: Chair de 
crabes en cocktail is cocktail de chair de crabes 
is chair de crabes a la cocktail is crabflake 
cocktail. Asperges en fricassee is a s p a r- 
agus like, fricassee is aspara- 
gus in fricassee sauce is fric- 
asseed asparagus. Cuisse de pore 
roH en chevreuil is roast leg of pork 
like venison or venison style. 

Before all words in Spanish which begin 
with an o or ho there must be written u instead 
of 6. 



Rules of Gramma?* of Four Languages 123 

The Using of Adjectives 



s. m. 
pi. m. 

s. f. 
pi. 1 

s. m. 
pi. m. 

s. f. 
pi. f. 

s. m. 
pi. m. 
s. f. 

s. f. 

pi. f. 

s. m. 
pi. m. 
pi. 1 

s. m. 
pi. m. 

s. f. 
pi. f. 

s. m. 
pi. m. 

s. f. 
pi. f. 



French : 

Amerique 
americain, s, e, es 
Allemagne 
allemand, s, e, es 

Fromage d' Amerique 
Fromages d' Amerique 
Biere d'Allemagne 
Bieres d'Allemagne 

Fromage americain 
Fromages americains 
Biere americaine 
Bieres americaines 

Fromage allemand 
Fromages allemands 
Bieie ailemande 
Biere a l'americaine 

Bieres allemandes 
Fromage a l'americaine 
Fromages a l'americaine 
Bieres a l'americaine 

Fromage a l'allemande 
Fromages a l'allemande 
Biere a l'allemande 
Bieres a l'allemande 

Perdreau roti 
Perdreaux rotis 
Pomme de terre rotie 
Pommes de terre roties 



English : 

America 
American 
Germany 
German 

American cheese* 
American cheese** 
German beer 
German beers 

American cheese* 
American cheese** 
American beer 
American beers 

German cheese* 
German cheese** 
German beer 
German beers 

Cheese, American style* 
Cheese, American style** 
Beer, American style 
Beers, American style 

Cheese, German style* 
Cheese, German style 
Beer, German style 
Beers, German style 

Roast young pardridge 
Roast young pardridges 
Fried (roast) Potato 
Fried (roast) Potatoes 



Spanish : 

America 

american/o, os, a, as 

Alemania 

aleman, es, esa, esas 

s. m. Queso de America 

pi. m. Quesos de America 

.s. f. Cerveza de Alemania 

pi. f. Cervezas de Alemania 

s. m. Queso americano 

pi. m. Quesos americanos 

s. f. Cerveza americana 

pi. f. Cervezas americanas 



German : 

Amerika 

amerikanisch, e, er, es. em, en 

Deutschland 

deutsch, e, er, es, em, en 

Amerikanischer Kase* 
Amerikanische Kase'"* 
Deutsches Bier 
Deutsche Biere 

Amerikanischer Kase* 
Amerikanische Kase** 
Amerikanisches Bier 
Amerikanische Biere 



124 



The Art of Naming Dishes 



s. m. Queso aleman 

pi. m. Quesos alemanes 

s. f. Cerveza alemanesa 

pi. f. Cervezas alemanesas 

s. m. Queso a la americana 

pi. m. Quesos a la americana 

s. f. Cerveza a la americana 

pi. f. Cervezas a la americana 

s. m. Queso a la alemanesa 

pi. m. Quesos a la alemanesa 

s." f. Cerveza a la alemanesa 

pi. f. Cervezas a la alemanesa 

s. m. Perdiz asada 

pi. m. Perdices asadas 

s. f. Papa asada 

pi. f. Papas asadas 



Deutscher Kase* 
Deutsche Kase** 
Deutsches Bier 
Deutsche Biere 

Kase, amerikanische Art* 
Kase, amerikanische Art** 
Bier, amerikanische Art 
Biere, amerikanische Art 

Kase, deutsche Art* 
Kase, deutsche Art** 
Bier, deutsche Art 
Biere, deutsche Art 

Gebratenes Rebhuhn 
Gebratene Rebhuhner 
Gebratene Kartoffel 
Gebratene Kartoffeln 



Singular 



: Plural 



Judging by the foregoing instances we 
see that the adjectives in French and Spanish 
take the form and number of the noun to which 
they appeal. Especial care must be taken when 
an adjective follows more than one noun as e. g. 
echinee de pore rotie. Here rotie refers to 
echinee which is in the feminine-singular and 
not to pore which is in the masculine-singular. 
If we would write echinee de pore rotie then rotie 
refers to pore and the meaning would be saddle 
of roast pork; but it is roast saddle of pork. 
The same in Spanish: Filetes de carnero esto- 
fados and not filetes de carnero estofado. The 
latter means fillets of stewed mutton while the 
former is stewed fillets of mutton. But filete 
de carnero estofado is correct because here 
filete is singular. Cerdo asado and lomo de 
cerdo asado is right because both words cerdo 
and lomo are masculine-singular. But chul- 
etas de cerdo asadas and chuleta de cerdo asada. 
Also ragu de vaca asada (French: ragout de 
b\oeuf roti) because here asada refers to vaca 
and not to ragu. It is a ragout of roasted beef , 
that is to say a ragu of vaca asada. If one 



Rules of Grammar in Four Languages 125 

would write ragii cle vaca asado it would mean 
that it is a fried beef ragout. In French ragout 
and boeuf are masculine-singular and therefore 
the adjective is alike for both words. 

If an adjective refers to more than one 
noun, then the masculine adjective in the plural 
is always used, also if the nouns are of two 
different genders. For instance abricot et 
pomme farcis, albaricoque y manzana rellenos 
and albaricoques y manzanas rellenos, etc. 

If an adjective refers to a noun which is 
equal in the singular and in the plural then one 
writes the adjective in the singular or plural 
depending on whether one or more of an object 
is meant. For instance ananas. If one pine- 
apple is meant one writes ananas glace ; if more 
are meant ananas glaces, etc. 

Some nouns are written in the singular 
only, but have a collective meaning like e. g. 
celeri. Here the singular adjective is used. 

Only a few adjectives in the French and 
Spanish culinary languages are written before 
the nouns as e. g. the French demi, petit and 
gros and the Spanish gran. 

From the given instances it will be notic- 
ed that the adjectives which follow an a la have 
one form only, and is the feminine - singular 
form. This is because a la is feminine and 
therefore all following adjectives that refer to 
a la must take the said form. 

As to German adjectives, it should be 
noticed that they have different endings. One 
must be well versed in German to use the ad- 



126 The Art of Naming Dishes 

jectives. All who are not well versed in German 
can use the adjectives abridged or behind the 
noun, because so only one form comes in consid- 
eration, as in English. If the adjectives are 
used behind the nouns as is sometimes done on 
German bills of fare, just as on English table 
cards, then only one form, not abridged, is used 
and that is the form, as shown in the following 
list of adjectives. The German adjectives can 
be written as follows : 

Gebratenes Rindfleisch or abridged Gebraten. Rindfleisch 
Gerostete Kartoffeln " Gerosted. Kartoffeln 

Gebratenes Huhn Gebraten. Huhn 

Gefiillter u. gespickter " Gefullt. & gespikt. 

Kalbsbraten Kalbsbraten 

One also can write more abridged. 

Gebr. Rindfleisch 
Gerost. Kartoffeln 
Gebr. Huhn 
Gef. & gesp. Kalbsbraten 

When the adjectives are behind the nouns : 

Rindfleisch gebraten 

Kartoffeln gerostet 

Huhn gebraten 

Kalbsbraten gefullt u. gespickt 

One distinguishes six forms (endings) of ad- 
jectives as for instance: 

gebraten 

gebratene 

gebratener 

gebratenes 

gebratenem 

gebratenen 

In all four languages two adjectives are 
connected with et, and, y, und or the connection 
words are left out and a comma is placed in- 
stead of it. Pique et roti (pique, roti) ; lard- 
ed and roasted (larded, roast- 
e d) mechado y asado (mechado, asado), ge- 
spickt und gebraten (gespickt, gebraten), etc. 



Rules of Grammar of Four Languages 127 

Here follows a list of adjectives as to the 
main kinds of preparation of dishes in four 
languages. 



128 



The Art of Naming Dishes 



List of Adjectives 



FRENCH: 
aigre, s, aigre, s 

barde, s, e, es 
blanc, s, blanche, s 
borde, s, e, es 
boucan, s, e, es 
bouilli, s, e, es 
braise, s, e, es 
brouille, s, e, es 
brun, s, e, es 

candi, s, e, es 
chaud, s, e, es 
citronne, s, e, es 
clair, s, e, es 
confit, s, e, es 
conserve, s, e, es 
cru, s, e, es 
depece, s, e, es 
desosse, s, e, es 
epure, s, e, es 
etouffe, e, s, es; 

[etuve, s, e, es 
farci, s, e, es 
faux, -, fausse, s, 
fin, s, e, es . 
fourre, s, e, es 
fouette, s, e, es 
frais, -, fraiche, s, 
frit, s, e, es; au four 
froid, s, e, es 
fume, s, e, es 
garni, s, e, es 
gelatineux, -, gelatineuse, s 

glace, s, e, es 
grand, s, e, es 
gratine, s, e, es 

grille, s, e, es 
hache, s. e, es 



ENGLISH: 
sour; sourish 

barded; in bacon 

white 

borded 

dried; hung 

boiled 

braised; steamed 

scrambled 

brown; browned 

candied 

warm; hot 

lemonaded 

clear; cleared 

preserved 

conserved 

raw 

pulled ; picked 

boned 

clarified 

stewed 

stuffed; filled; farced 

mock 

fine 

furred 

whipped 

fresh 

fried ; baked 

cold 

smoked 

garnished 

jellied 

glazed; iced; frozen 

great; large 

gratin/at/ed ; crummed and 

[baked 
broiled; grilled 
hashed 



Rules of Grammar of Four Language 



129 



SPANISH: 

acid/o, os, a, as; agri/o, os, 
[a, as 
en tocino; tocinad/o, os, a, as 
blanc/o, os, a, as 
orlad/o, os, a, as 
sec/o, os, a, as 
cocid/o, os, a, as 
rehogad/o, os, a, as 
revuelt/o, os, a, as 
moren/o, os, a, as; tostad/o, 
[os, a, as 
garapinad/o, os, a, as 
caliente, s, caliente, s 
limonad/o, os, a, as 
clar/o, os, a, as 
confitad/o, os, a, as 
conservad/o, os, a, as 
crud/o, os, a, as 
tirotead/o, os, a, as 
pulpos/o, os, a, as 
clarifiad/o, os, a, as 
rellenad/o, os, a, as 
estofad/o, os, a, as 
fictici/o, os, a, as 
fin/o, os, a, as 
forrad/o, os, a, as 
batid/o, os, a, as 
fresc/o, os, a, as 
frit/o, os, a, as 
fri/o, os, a, as 
ahumad/o, os, a, as 
guarnecad/o, os, a, as 
gelatinos/o, os, a, as; 

[jaletinoso 
glacial, es; glasead/o, os, a, 
[as; garaphinado 
grande, s, 
gratinad/o, os, a, as 

emparrillad/o. os, a, as 
picad/o, os, a, as 



GERMAN: 
sauer; sauerlich 

in Speckhulle 

weiss 

bordiert 

gedort 

gekocht 

geschmort; gediinstet 

geruhrt 

braun ; gebraunt 

iiberzuckert 

warm ; heiss 

zitroniert 

klar 

eingemacht 

konserviert ; eingemacht 

roh 

geziipft ; gepf liickt 

ausgebeint 

geklart 

gedampft 

gefiillt 

f alsch ; imitiert 

fein 

iiberzogen 

geschlagen 

frisch 

gebraten ; gebacken 

kalt 

gerauchert 

verziert 

iibersulzt 

glasiert; iiberglanzt; ge- 

[froren; geeist 
gross 
krumiert und gebacken; 

[gratiniert 

gerostet 
gehackt 



130 



The Art of Naming Dishes 



manie, s, e, es 
marine, s, e, es 
mele, s, e, es 
noir, s, e, es 
nouveau, x, nouyelle, s 
panache, s, e, es 
pane, s, e, es 
presse, s, e, es 
petit, s, e, es 
pique, s, e, es 
poele, s, e, es 

poivre, s, e, es; pimente, s, 
[e, es 
pret, s, e, es 
rissole, s, e, es 
rouge, s, rouge, s, 
roti, s, e, es 
roule, s, e, es 
sale, s, e, es 
saute, s, e, es 

sec, s, seche, s; seche, s, e, es 
souffle, s, e, es 
sucre, s, e, es 
truffe, s, e, es 
vert, s, e, es 



floured ; manieded 

marinaded; pickled 

mixed 

black 

new 

variegated; mixed 

breaded 

pressed 

small 

larded 

fried in pan 

peppered 

ready 

browned 

red 

roasted; fried 

rolled 

salted; corned; cured 

sauted 

dried 

puffed; souffled 

sweet: sugared 

truffled 

green 



Rules of Gramma?- of Four Languages 



131 



harinad/o, os, a, as 


meliert 


marinad/o, os, a, as 


mariniert 


mezclad/o, os, a, as; mixt/o, 


gemischt 


[os, a, as 




negr/o, os, a, as 


schwarz 


nuev/o, os, a, as 


neu 


abigarrad/o, os, a, as; 


farbig; bunt; gemischt 


[variegado 




panad/o, os, a, as ; panadeado 


brotiert 


comprimid/o, os, a, as 


gepresst 


pequen/o, os, a, as 


klein 


mechad/o, os, a, as 


gespickt 


frit/o, os, a, as, en sarten 


gebraten in der Pfanne 


pimentad/o, os, a, as 


gepfeffert 


hech/o, os, a, as 


fertig 


tostad/o, os, a, as 


gebraunt 


roj/o, os, a, as 


rot 


asad/o, os, a, as 


gebraten 


arrollad/o, os, a, as; rollado 


gerollt 


saladill/o, os, a, as; salado 


gesalzen ; gepokelt 


sotead/o, os, a, as 


iiberbraten ; geschwungen 


sec/o, os, a, as 


getrocknet 


soplad/o, os, a, as 


auf gelauf en ; auf geblase^ 


dulce, s ; azucarad/o, os, a, as 


suss; gesusst; gezuckert 


criadillad/o, os, a, as 


getruffelt 


verde, s 


griin 



132 The Art of Naming Dishes 



The Plural of the French and 
Spanish Words 

FRENCH : 

The plural of nouns is formed mostly by 
adding an s to the singular. 

Nouns with the ending s> a?, or z do not 
change. 

Nouns with the ending aa, eau^ and the 
Atford chou form the plural by adding an x to 
the singular. 

The plural of the adjectives is formed 
mostly by adding an s to the singular. If they 
have already an s, or w in the singular then the 
masculine w r ords are alike in the singular and 
in the plural. Adjectives with the ending al 
change to aux in the masculine-plural and to 
ales in the feminine-plural. Two adjectives 
connected with a hyphen do not change if they 
refer to colors as e. g. rouge-brun, etc. All 
other adjectives connected with a hyphen change 
the last word only as e. g. aigre-dotix (alike in 
in masculine - singular - plural), augre-doiice 
(feminine - singular) aigre-douees (feminine - 
plural). The adjective demi changes after a 
noun but not before a noun as e. g. demi tasse, 
etc. 

SPANISH : 

The plural of the nouns is formed mostly 
by adding s to the singular . 



Rules of Grammar of Four Languages 133 

The plural of nouns with a consonant at 
the end or with the ending of an accented a, i, 
or with y connected diphthong is formed by 
adding an es to the singular: flor(es), rey(es), 
etc. 

Words with the ending n and s and with 
accented syllable lose the accent: f ranees and 
franceses, ets. 

The feminine form of the adjectives with 
the endings o, ete, ote, change the end vowel into 
an a; peqneno and pequena. 

Adjectives with the ending an, on, or and 
the national adjectives become ana, ona, or a in 
feminine. 

All other adjectives, also a few with the 
ending or, have no other form in the feminine. 

The plural of the adjectives is formed 
like the plural of the nouns. 



PUNCTUATION : 

As to the punctuation, much care should 
be taken because it often leads to misunder- 
standings, especially on bills of fare on which 
the dishes are not classified. The following 
instances give an idea as to how the punctuation 
in the different languages should be made. 



134 The Art of Naming Dishes 

FRENCH: 

1. Homard au riz, americaine 

2. Homard au riz a l'americaine 

3. Sole etuve, Victoria 

4. Sole etuve a la Victoria 

5. Homard froid, sauce aux herbes 

6. Homard froid a la sauce aux herbes 

7. Truite bleu, beurre frais 

8. Truite bleu au beurre frais 

9. Filets de mouton panes, grilles, a la puree de carottes 

10. Boeuf a la mode, puree de pommes d. t. 

11. Cafe, the et chocolat 

12. Cafe, the, chocolat 

ENGLISH: 

1. Lobster with rice, American 

2. Lobster with rice in American style 

3. Stewed sole, Victoria; Sole stewed, Victoria 

4. Stewed sole, Victoria style; Stewed sole in Victoria style 

5. Cold Lobster, herb sauce; Lobster cold, herb sauce 

6. Cold lobster with herb sauce 

7. Blue trout, fresh butter; Trout blue, fresh butter. 

8. Trout blue with fresh butter 

9. Tenderloin of mutton breaded, broiled, with carrot puree 

10. Larded, braised beef, mode style, mashed potatoes 

11. Coffee, tea and chocolate 

12. Coffee, tea, chocolate 

SPANISH: 

1. Cangrejo con arroz, americana 

2. Cangrejo con arroz a la americana 

3. Lenguado estof ado, Victoria 

4. Lenguado estofado a la Victoria 

5. Cangrejo frio, salsa con hierbas (salsa de hierbas.) 

6. Cangrejo frio con salsa de hierbas 

7. Trucha azul, mantequilla fresca 

8. Trucha azul con mantequilla fresca 

9. Solomillos de carnero panadeados, emparrillados, con pure 

de zanahorias. 

10. Vaca mechada, rehogada a la moda con pure de papas 

11. Cafe, te y chocolate 

12. Cafe, te, chocolate 

GERMAN: 
,. Hummer mit Reis, amerikanisch 

2. Hummer mit Reis auf amerikanische Art. 

3. Gedampfte Seezunge, Victoria; Seezunge gedampft, Victoria 

4. Gedampfte Seezunge nach Victoria. 

5. Kalter Hummer, Krauter-Tunke (Krautertunke). 

6. Kalter Hummer mit Krauter-Tunke. 

7. Blau gekochte Forelle, frische Butter. 

8. Forelle blau gekocht mit frischer Butter. 

9. Brotierte, gerostete Hammellenden-Schnitten, Mohrenmus. 

10. Gespickter Rindsschmorbraten, modisch mit Kartoffelmus. 

11. Kaffee, Tee und Schokolade. 

12. Kaffee, Tee, Schokolade. 



Rules of Grammar of Four Languages 135 



Using Big and Small Capital Letters. 

Except in German the writing of certain 
words with big initial letters, has come into use 
such as nouns, adjectives and others. Both 
ways of writing are correct but one or the other 
should keep its character, and a bill of fare or 
menu should not be printed with some of the 
words beginning with small, and others with 
capital letters. 



A few instances follow here: 

Lanque de Boeuf a l'Anglaise. 

Palais de Boeuf frit, Sauce aux Tomates. 

Petits Pates de Cervelles de Veau. 

Ris de Veau a la Napolitaine. 

Potage puree de concombres aux petits pois. 

Beef Tongue, English. 

Fried Beef Palate, Tomato Sauce 

Small Patties of Calf's Brain. 

Mollejas de Ternero a la Napolitana. 

Lanque de boeuf a Tanglaise. 

Palais de boeuf frit, sauce aux tomates. 

Petits pates de cervelles de veau. 

Ris de veau a la napolitaine. 

Potage Puree de Concombres aux Petits Pois. 

Beef tongue, Engllish. 

Fried beef palate, tomato sauce 

Small patties of Calf s brain. 

Mollejas de ternero a la napolitana. 

In German all words are written accord 
ing to the gramatical rules. 



136 The Art of Naming Dishes 



The Singular and Plural on 
Table Cards. 



Regarding the writing of singular or plu- 
ral on menus and bills of fare the following 
should he kept in mind. 

Such items and pieces of food of which a 
guest may have only one for a certain price, 
(must be marked in the singular, for instance : 
beefsteak, cutlet, herring, apple, pear, etc. All 
large pieces of which a guest may have only a 
part, are also written in the singular as for 
instance : roastbeef , salmon, chicken, leg of mut- 
ton, etc. Fruits and other dishes which are 
standing on the table for ones free choice can 
be marked in the plural. All other dishes of 
Avhich the guests may have more than one, such 
as: eggs, oysters, plums, crabs, anchovies, etc., 
should be marked in the plural. 

On menus and. bills of fare without quot- 
ations such dishes as herrings, beefsteaks, cut- 
lets, etc., can be marked in the plural because 
guests can order more than one of an item. But 
this is not a rule and writing it in the singular 
is just as correct. 



The Naming of Table Cards 
in Four Languages 



One distinguishes three different kinds 
of table cards: the bill of fare, the menu, and 
the list of beverages. 

The bill of fare is a list of dishes with 
prices for each dish and from which the guests 
order and accordingly pay for. (European Plan) 
A bill of fare also can be without prices and the 
guests pay a certain price for one meal, by the 
day, week or month, etc., no matter what is 
ordered. (American Plan). 

A menu offers only a number of different 
dishes for a certain repast. The dishes are 
either served on large plates and handed around 
or they are served individually. Sometimes the 
price for one cover (the whole meal) is marked 
on the menu. 

i A bill of fare can be made up for the 
entire day. They are named as follows : 

English: Bill of fare; Day's Bill of fare; Card for the 
Day ; Bill of fare to order. 

French: Carte; Carte du Jour. 

Spanish: Lista de Platos; Lista de Platos a la Carta; 
Lista de Platos del Dia. 

German: Tageskarte; Speisen nach der Karte; Speise- 
karte ; Speiseliste ; Speisen nach Wahl ; Speis- 
en nach Auswahl. 



138 The Art of Naming Dishes 

Bills of fare which are intended for a 
certain meal only, are called as follows : 

English: Breakfast. 

Lunch to Order. 
Dinner to Order. 
Supper to Order. 
French: Dejeuner. 

Depeuner-diner a la Carte; Dejeuner a la 

[Fourchette. 
Diner a la Carte. 
Souper a la Carte. 
Spanish: Desayuno. 

Almuerzo a la Carta. 
Comida a la Carta. 
Cena a la Carta. 
German: Fruhstuck. 

Gabelfruhstuck nach der Karte. 
Hauptmahlzeit nach der Karte. 
Abendmahlzeit nach der Karte. 

If it is a common service (table d'hote) and 
the names of the different day-meals are men- 
tioned, then they are called without the endings 
to order a la carte, a la carta, nach der 
Karte, 

Menus are called as followed: 
English: Menu. 
French: Menu. 

Spanish: Lista /de Platos/ de Mesa Franca; Lista 

[/de Platos/ de Mesa redonda. 
German: Tafelkarte. 

Lists of Beverages : 

English: List of Beverages. 
French: Liste de Boissons. 
Spanish: Lista de Bebidas. 

German: Getrank-Liste (Getrankliste) ; Getrank-karte 

[(Getrankkarte). 
English: Wine List; Wine Card. 
French : Liste de Vins. 
Spanish : Lista de Bebidas. 

German : Weinkarte (Wein-Karte) ; Weinliste (Wein- 

[Liste) . 



French Words and the Preposition "with" 139 

French Words most commonly used 
with the Preposition 'with" 



FRENCH: 
a rail 
a 1'aillolis 
a Tammende 
a 1'amourette 
aux anchois 
a 1'aneth 
a 1'anis 
a l'ananas 
aux ananas 
aux arachides 
aux artichauts 
aux artichauts farcis 
aux artichauts frits 

aux asperges 

aux asperges et /aux/pois 

aux avelines 

au avocat 

aux bananes 

a la batate 

aux batates 

aux betteraves 

au beurre; 

au beurre f ondu 

au(x) beurre (s) 

aux bigardes 

a la biere 

a la biscotte 

aux biscottes 

a la bistorte 

au ble de Turquie; au mais 

au brocoli 

aux brugnoles 

aux bunions 

au contaloup 
a la cannelle 
aux capres 
aux cardons 
aux carottes 



ENGLISH: 

with garlic 

with garlic butter 

with Greek sorrel 

with amourette 

with anchovies 

with dill 

with aniseed 

with pineapple 

with pineapples 

with peanuts 

with artichokes 

with stuffed artichokes 

with fried (baked) artichokes 

with asparagus 

with asparagus and peas 

with hazelnuts 

with alligator pear . 

with bananas 

with sweet potato 

with sweet potatoes 

with red beets 

with butter 

with melted butter 

with butter-pear (s) 

with Seville oranges 

with beer 

with zwieback 

with zwiebacks 

with adder-wort 

with corn (maize) 

with broccoli 

with prunellas 

with earth-nuts 

with cantaloupe 
with cinnamon 
with capers 
with cardoons 
with carrots 



140 



The Art of Naming Dishes 



aux carottes et/aux/pois 

aux carottes et salsifis 

au carvi 

au cary 

au caviar 

qu celeri 

aux cepes 

au cerfeuil 

aux cerises 

a la cervelle 

a la cervelle de inouton 

aux champignons 

aux champignons farcis 

a la chicoree 

a la chipolata 

au chou 

aux choux 

aux choux-fleurs 

aux choux de Milan 

aux choux-raves 

aux choux-rouges 

a la choucroute 

a la ciboulette (civette) 

au citron 

aux citrons 

au cognac 

aux concombres frits 

aux concombres 

au consomme 

aux corinthes 

aux cornichons 

aux cornichons et/aux/olives 

au court-bouillon 

aux crabes 

aux crabes d*huitres 

a la creme 

a la creme aigre 

a la creme de fouettee 

a la creme de marrons 

au cresson 

au cresson de fontaine 

aux crevettes 

aux croquettes 

aux croquettes de cervelle 



with 


carrots and peas 


with carrots and oyster plant 


with 


caraway 


with 


curry 


with 


caviare 


with 


celery 


with 


mushrooms 


with 


chervil 


with cherries 


with 


brain [not used] 


with lamb's brain 


with 


mushrooms 


with filled mushrooms 


with 


chicory 


with 


sausage-ragout 


with 


cabbage 


with 


cabbage 


with 


cauliflower 


with 


Savoy cabbage 


with 


turnip-cabbage 


with red cabbage 


with 


sourcrout 


with 


chives 


with lemon 


with lemons 


with 


cognac-brandy 


with 


baked cucumbers 


with 


cucumbers 


with 


consomme 


with 


dried currants 


with 


gherkins 


with 


gherkins and olives 


with 


court-bouillon 


with crabs 


with 


oyster-crabs 


with 


cream 


with 


sour cream 


with whipped cream 


with 


chestnut cream 


with 


cress 


with 


water cress 


with 


shrimps 


with 


croquettes 


with 


brain croquettes 



French Words and the Preposition "with" 



141 



aux croquettes de macarone/s 
(macaroni/s/) 
aux croquettes de volaille 
a la croutes 
aux croutons 
aux croutons de legumes 

au cumin 

aux echalottes 

aux ecrevisses 

a l'epinard 

aux escargots 

a l'estragon 

a la farce de marrons 

au fenouil 

aux filets de poule 

aux filets de truite 

aux fines herbes 

au foie 

au foie d'oie 

aux foies d'oies 

au foie de veau et/aux/ 

[truffes 
au fumet d'ananas 
a la gelee 

a la gelee /de viande/ 
a la gelee de groseilles 
au gingembre 
au gombo 
aux groseilles 
aux groseilles vertes 
a la grive farcie 
aux grives farcies 
au hareng 
aux harengs 
aux haricots 
aux haricots blancs 
aux haricots verts 
aux herbes 
a lliuile 
aux huftres 



with macaroni croquettes 



with 


chicken croquettes 


with 


crust (bread crust) 


with 


small crusts 


with 


vegetable dice 


with 


caraway 


with 


shallots 


with 


crayfish 


with spinach 


with 


snails 


with tarragon 


with 


chestnut filling 


with 


fennel 


with 


chicken fillets 


with trout fillets 


with fine herbs 


with 


liver 


with chicken liver 


with chicken livers 



with calf's liver and truffles 

with pineapple flavor 

with jelly 

with meat jelly 

with currant jelly 

with ginger 

with gombo 

with currants 

with gooseberries 

with stuffed fieldfare 

with stuffed fieldfares 

with herring 

with herrings 

with beans 

with white beans 

with string beans 

with herbs 

with oil 

with oysters 



142 



The Art of Naming Dishes 



au jambon 

aux jaunes d'oeufs 

au jus /de viande/ 

au jus de fruits 

aux laitues 

aux laitues braisees 

aux laitues farcies 

au lard 

au legumes 

aux legumes 

aux legumes croustillants 

aux legumes au four 

aux lentilles 

au macaroni 

aux macaroni et/aux/ 

[tomates 
au madere; au vin de Madere 



with 


ham 


with 


egg-yolks 


with meat juice 


with 


fruit juice 


with 


lettuce 


with braised lettuce 


with 


stuffed lettuce 


with 


bacon 


with 


vegetable 


with 


vegetables 


with 


crisped vegetables 


with 


baked vegetables 


with 


lentils 


with 


macaroni 


with 


macaroni and tomatoes 



with Madeira /wine/; with 
[madeira 



aux marrons 


with 


chestnuts 


aux moules 


with 


mussels 


a la moutarde 


with 


mustard 


aux navets 


with 


turnips 


aux navets rissoles 


with 


brawned turnips 


aux nids d'hirondelles 


with 


bird's nests (swallow 
[nests) 


aux noques 


with 


nodes 


aux noques de beurre 


with 


butter nodes 


aux nouilles 


with 


noodles 


aux oeufs 


with 


egg(s) 


aux oeufs poches 


with 


poached egg(s) 


aux oignons 


with 


onions 


aux olives 


with 


olives 


a l'omelette 


with 


omelet 


aux omelettes 


with 


omelets 


a l'orge perle 


with 


pearl barley 


a l'oseille 


with 


sorrel 


au pain 


with 


bread 


aux pains de chevreuil 


with 


vension rolls 


aux pains d'ecrevisses 


with 


crayfish rolls 


aux pains d'epinards 


with 


spinach rolls 


aux pains de faisan 


with 


pheasant rolls 


aux pains de foie gras 


with 


fat-liver rolls 


au palais de boeuf 


with 


ox' palate 



French Words and the Preposition "with 1 



143 



au paprika 

au persil 

aux petits navets 

aux petits pains 

aux petits pois 

aux petits pois et/aux/ 

[carrottes 

aux pointes d'asperges 

aux poires 

aux pois 

aux pois frits 

au poivre vert 

aux pommes 

aux pommes d. t. 

au pore 

au pore sale (petit-sale) 

au porto 

aux prunes 

a la puree de haricots 

a la puree de lentils 

a la puree d'oseille 

a la puree de pois 

a la puree verte 

aux qunelles 

au ragout fin 

au raifort 

aux ravioles 

au ris 

au ris de veau 

au riz 

aux riz et tapioca 

aux rognons 

au sagou 

a la sucre 

a la sauce 

/a la/ sauce /de/bigarrade 

/a la/ sauce au citron 

/a la/ sauce poivrade 

/a la/ sauce aux pommes 

/a la/ sauce /de/ raifort 

/a la/ sauce ravigote 

/a la/ sauce remoulade 

/a la/ sauce /de (aux)/ 

[tomate/s/ 



with 


paprika 


with 


parsley 


with 


small turnips 


with 


rolls 


with 


new peas 


with 


new peas and carrotb 


with 


asparagus tips 


with 


pears 


with 


peas 


with baked peas 


with 


apples 


with 


potatoes 


with 


green pepper 


with 


pork 


with salted pork 


with 


port/wine/ 


with 


plums 


with 


bean puree 


with 


lentil puree 


with 


sorrel puree 


with 


pease puree 


with 


green puree 


with 


dumplings 


with fine ragout 


with horseradish 


with 


ravioles 


with 


sweetbread 


with 


calf's sweetbread 


with 


rice 


with 


rice and tapioca 


with 


kidneys 


with 


sago 


with 


sugar 


with 


sauce 


with 


/Seville/ orange sauce 


with lemon sauce 


with pepper sauce 


with apple sauce 


with horseradish sauce 


with 


ravigote sauce 


with 


remoulade sauce 


with tomato sauce 



J.44 French Words and the Preposition "ivith" 



/a la/ sauce vinaigrette 
au saumon 


with green sauce 
with vinegrette 
with salmon 


/a la/ sauce verte 
au saumon fume 


with roast meat 
with smoked salmon 


au saucisse (saucisson) 


with sausage 


aux saucissons (saucisses) 


with sausages 


a la sauge 
a la semoule 


with sage 
with semolina 


au tapioca 

a la tete de veau 


with tapioca 
with calf's head 


aux tomates 


with tomatoes 


aux topinambours 

aux trois /pot de/ creme 

aux trois racines 

aux truffes 


with Jerusalem artichokes 
with /tricolo/ red custard 
with /tricolo/ red root 

[vegetables 
with truffles 


aux veau et jambon 
au veloute 


with veal and ham 
with white sauce 


aux vermicelles 


with vermicelli 


au vin 


with wine 


au vin blanc 


with white wine 


au vin rouge 
a la viande 


with red wine 
with meat 


a la viande rotie 


with roast meat 



1Y141 






i *o M ^ 









.V*\.i^. 






» Sti&kS ^JSkS, **&k:* o » <**. 














%/ £&£ \/ .7S&&-. V* 



*2» 



,**^ 



• • • jfi ^tf *° • * * A <f. 







4 



*0< 




* — r % «v v -• *^^", 



o 4V "T> * ' 




,4q* 




y^^sfe-x. x.3tfk.v ^^> *• a* 



°j "•no" aO 






^ » . , 1 • «T 



'■?. '»»'" <* 




y..xL>.- 






**_ 






,0* ..\'-.f^*P 



4& • 



v «•••♦ ***, 



,*• 






'»• * -^ 



V. ^> ^ .>%'. ^ A* »*« ^ # 







«u* v . 






**r 



• -^ ^ V 



;• . v r+ •XM&t <F *+ •w^ . * v ^ -J 



* aV «fc, 










».. *••»• .<> <* *'" 




^..M.*..'* 






<r « 



.0' -v *.„•• vjT 




• ^o« 



K^^ 













V* 1 

* XL? <£, • 






6°+ 












V 



'°* 










/•s 






A 













J."" 7 *. V 









^5^ 



O 4^ 



^..^.v ^ >!k - i: ./> ^v^.o^.v y..iv.. 















v^^ 1 









o^ *o . * • A 



J 988 






