Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



The Arthur and Elizabeth 

CHLESINGER LIBRARY 

on the History of Women 

in America 

RADCLIFFE COLLEGE 



Lf t of waiter Wright 



1 

i 



• .V 



Good Housekeeping's Book 

of Recipes and Household 
Discoveries 



Brery redpe actwUfy imitd mad approrwd by ih9 D^ptartm^ai mi 
CookBfy Qt Qood ttonMkimpkig buiUaU 




Published by GOOD HOUSEKEEPING MAGAZINE 

119 West Fortieth Street k% the City o/ New Yoik 






Cbpyric^t, 1920, by 

Good Hotjsbebsfino Maoazinb 

Intebnational Magazine Cohfant 



JJi rights ranrvwl* inoludins that of truulatkNi 

Into f oreisn lang^iftgesi inoluding 

jtfi *^ SoandiiwviaiL 



BUTE BDITIOy 



Printed in U. 8. A. 






« • f 



. } 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Do You Cook by Rulb? i 

MEASIJKINa AND MiXINO li 

Equivalents of Capacttt v 

Approximatb Weights of Some Common Dbt Commoditibb . . vi 

Bevebaoes 1 

BREADS 4 

Cakes 19 

Confections 33 

Cheese Dishes 37 

Cookies 43 

Dessebts 53 

Eggs 72 

Entries 80 

Fish 84 

Frostings 93 

Fbutt Combinations 95 

Meat 98 

Pies 120 

Salads 128 

Salad Dressings 142 

Sandwiches 147 

Soups 152 

Vegetables 160 

Saucepan Discovebiea 180 

Discoveries from Kitchen to Garret 183 

Discoveries for the Hostess 186 

Cooking Discoveries 189 

Summer Discoveries 192 

"Keefino Fit" Discoveries 195 

Every-Dat Discoveries 198 

Thrift Discovsribs 201 

"HoMB Helps'' Discoybbibb • • 206 

"What Is Good Housbkbbfing iNennTurB?" 208 

Index to Recipes 209 

Index to Diboovbribs 215 



Do You Cook by Rule? 

It is the surest and safest way, and you are safeguarded 
by tested methods and tested recipes, when you use the recipes 
found in these pages. It is in the Department of Cookery 
of Good Housekeeping Institute, a research laboratory at 
105 West 39th St., New York City, conducted by Qooi House- 
keeping Magazine that experienced workers are constantly re- 
vising and testing recipes, methods and articles. Every ©ne 
of these four hundred recipes represents actual testing, tast- 
ing and standardizing. In all confidence, then, we offer you 
the results, because we know that they wiU be practical, 
workable and helpful in planning your daily meals, and will 
accomplish good cookery at the cost of less money, less time, 
and less labor. In every case, use accurate and level measure- 
ments and follow directions carefully and success is certain. 



Measuring and Mixing 

Half of the secret of good cooking lies in accurate meas- 
urement. Gkx)D Housekeeping Institute recommends a 
standard measuring-set. First in its list of measuring-utensils 
are two standard measuring-cups holding one-half pint each 
and divided into quarters and thirds. These may be made 
of either aluminum or glassware. The tin cup is too short- 
lived. A" set of accurate measuring-spoons is essential. 
These are made of ^uminum and can be found in capacities 
graduated from one tablespoonful down to one-fourth tea- 
spoonful. They assure uniform good results in baking-pow- 
der mixtures, cakes, and so forth, as well as careful seasoning. 

A small spatula for the leveling of all solid measurements 
is indispensable. An aluminum quart measure and a small 
compact spring scale may also be added to the measuring 
equipment. Use the scale more for checking the weights as 
purchased than for cooking by weight. A spring scale, while 
illegal in certain states because it can be easily tampered 
with, is nevertheless practical and accurate for household 
usage. 

In all measuring see that the ingredients are level. A 
cupful is measured level ; a tablespoonful is measured level ; 
a teaspoonful is measured level. In measuring dry ingredi- 
ents by cupfuls fill the cup by tablespoonfuls, allow it to 
heap slightly, then level with a quick stroke of the spatula. 
When fractions of a cupful are to be measured, measure by 
tablespoonfuls in preference to the use of the cup up to one- 
half cup capacity, remembering that sixteen tablespoonfuls 
are equal to one cupful. And do not shake the cup while 
filling. 

To Measure Dry Ingredients 

In measuring dry ingredients by spoonfuls fill the spoon 
by dipping into the ingredient until more than level; lev A 



a 



Measubinq and Mixing iii 

with fhe spatula, cutting witk the edge of the knife toward 
the tip of the spoon. For the half-teaspoonful, measure 
in exactly the same way, using the measuring spoon of 
ene-half teaspo<»iful capacity. For the hidf-tablespoonful 
jm% the spoons of one teaspoonful and one-half teaspoonful 
capacity. For one-eighth of a teaspoonful measure one- 
fourth teaspoonful as usual, then cut eharply in two with the 
spatula. Less than one-eighth of a teaspoonful is called a 
** speck'* or *'a few grains" and is the amount which can 
be taken up on the very tip end of a vegetable knife. This 
is a term quite frequently used for seasoning. 

In measuring a solid fat pack solidly into cup or spoon 
and cut level with the spatula. When one-quarter cupful or 
less of a fat is desired always measure in tablespoonfuls, al- 
lowing four tablespoonfuls to each quarter cupful. Here is 
a simple way of measuring fats when less than one cupful is 
desired. If, for instance, one-half cupful of fat is desired, 
fill the measuring cup with one-half cupful of water and then 
add the fat in small pieces until the water reaches the cup- 
ful mark ; then pour off the water and one-half cupful of fat 
will remain. 

To Measure Liquids 

In measuring liquids by cupfuls pour the liquid to be meas- 
ured into the cup, filling it te the very top pf the standard 
cup. For fractions of cupfuls fill in like manner to the indi- 
cated division. In the same way measure liquids by spoon- 
fuls, by taking up all the spoon will hold. 

Just How to Mix 

Fully as important as measuring is the correct motion for 
combining ingredients. These involve three processes, stir- 
ring, beating, and ** cutting" or folding in. The stirring mo- 
tion is required to blend ingredients together. It is the one 
that is most often employed for thoroughly mixing the in- 
gredients of a dish. 

Beating is the motion necessary when air must be intro- 
duced into a mixture in order to leaven it. In beating, the 
ingredients must be turned over and over, continually bring- 
ing the under part upward to the surface and consequently 
bringing with it, with each stroke, a certain amount of air. 



iv Measubino and Mixing 

The cuttinf sod f oUluig motion is necessary when a mix- 
tmre alrtadj containinf entrapped air introduced by beat- 
ing must have added to it an ingredient, also well beaten, 
and the mixing accomplished without loss of air from either 
mixture. The best illustration of this is a sponge cake where, 
into the light yolk-sugar-and-flour mixture, must be cut and 
folded the beaten egg-whites. 

Briefly, by stirring, a dish is properly mixed ; by beating, 
iair is entrapped in the mixture; by cutting and folding, this 
air which has been already entrapped is prevented from 
escaping. 



The following lists of equivalents are intended merely as 
ian assistance in purchasing supplies, because Good House^ 
KEEPiN« Institute does not believe in cookery by weight. 



EQUIVALENTS OF CAPACITY 

(All measures level full) 



3 teaspoonfuls 
% fluid ounce 
16 tablespoonfuls 

2 gills 
% liquid pint 

8 fluid ounces 

1 liquid pint 
16 fluid ounces 


>• 1 tablespoonf ul 
~ - 1 cupful 
— J- 2 cupf uls 


LIQUID MEASURE 


DRY MF.ARUBB 


4 fluid ounces = 1 gill 
4 gills = 1 pint 
2 pints == 1 quart 
4 quarts = 1 gallon 
31% gallons = 1 barrel 
2 barrels z=: 1 hogshead 




(For fruits, vegetables, and 
other dry commodities) 
2 pints — 1 quart 
8 quarts == 1 peck 
4 peeks =:1 bushel 
105 quarts — 1 barrel 



The pint and quart dry measures are about 16% larger thaar 
the pint and quart liquid measures. 



APPROXIMATE WEIGHTS OP SOME COMMON DRY 

COMMODITIES 



Pounds 
per bushel 

Apples 44 to 50 

Beans 60 

Beets ..SOtoGO 

Carrots 50 

Cranberries 32 to 40 

Cucumbers 48 to 50 

Onions 50to57 

Parsnips 42 to 50 

Peaches 48 to 50 

Peanuts 20 to 25 

Pears 45to58 

Peas (dried) 60 

Potatoes (white) 60 

Potatoes (sweet) 50 to 56 

Tomatoes 50 to 60 

Turnips 50to60 



lee: 

1 cubic foot. . . = 57.2 pounds 

30 cubic inches = 1 pound 
Sugar, granulated: 

1 cupful = ^ pound 

Butter : 

1 cupful = Yz pound 

Lard: 

1 cupful = ^2 pound 

Flour: 

1 cupful = % pound 

Bice: 

1 cupful 
Commeal : 

1 cupful 
Raisins (stemmed) : 

1 cupful = 6 ounces 

Currants (cleaned) : 

1 cupful 
Bread crumbs (stale) : 

1 cupful = 2 ounces 

Chopped meat (packed) : 

1 cupful = % pound 



• • • • • 



: % pound 
= 5 ounces 



= 6 ounces 



These weights are approximate only and should not be used 
in trade for determining whether correct measure is given or 
received. 

Information condeming the weights per bushel of dry com- 
modities which are legal in your State may be obtained by 
consulting your State laws, your sealer of weights and meas* 
uresy or Circular No. 10 of the Bureau of Standards. 



▼i 



Beverages 



ANGEL TIP 

Sweet grape juice Sweetened whipped-eream 

Crushed ice Mint 

Fill tall glasses such as are used for ice-tea one-third full 
of crushed ice. Pour over this the grape juice till the glasses 
are two-thirds full. The ice is usually suflScient to dilute it. 
Pile on each serving a spoonful of the cream, and top with 
a sprig of mint. Serve with straws or long-handled spoons. 

SOMEBVnjLE, MASS. 

COCOA PASTE 

1 pint boiling water ^ teaspoonf ul vanilla 
7^ tablespoonfuls cocoa Few grains salt 

Put the cocoa into a saucepan and gradually add the boil- 
ing water, stirring till cocoa is thoroughly dissolved. Boil 
till it thickens — about five minutes— stirring constantly, and 
then add salt and vanilla. This will keep for some time in 
a cool place. mountain lake park, md. 

DANDELION CORDIAL 

2 quarts dandelion blossoms 3 pounds sugar 
4 quarts boiling water 2 oranges 

1 lemon 

Pour the boiling water over the dandelion blossoms and 
let stand overnight. Strain, and add to the liquid the sugar 
dissolved in boiling water, the oranges, and the lemon, sliced 
thin. Let stand for three days and strain before serving. 



2 QOOD HOUSEKEEPINO'S BoOK OF 

EXCELLENT CEREAL COFFEE 

2 quarts bran 1 quart corn-meal (whole 
1 cupful molasses ground) 

Mix ingredients together thoroughly, rubbing with the 
hands until the whole resembles moist brown sugar. Turn 
mixture into two large dripping-pans and brown in a slow 
oven, stirring very often so that it may brown evenly without 
becoming scorched. "When done it will be of a rich seal-brown 
color. Store in fruit-jars. Use as all the cereal coffees on 
the market, allowing two tablespoonfuls and a cupful and a 
half of water to each person. Boil twenty minutes. 

POST HURON, HIGH. 

GEAPE PUNCH 

Juice 3 lemons 1 cupful sugar 

Juice 1 orange 1 cupful shredded canned or 

1 pint grape juice cooked fresh pineapple 

1 quart water 

Combine and let stand several hours to ripen before serv- 
ing. NEW HAVEN, CONN. 

ICED COCOA 

3 teaspoonfuls cocoa-paste Milk to fill glass 

2 teaspoonfuls sugar Crushed ice 

Stiffly beaten egg-white 

Put the cocoa-paste into a glass and dissolve by gradually 
pouring in milk. Add sugar and crushed ice, and pile on 
top the egg-white, which should be slightly sweetened and 
flavored with vanilla. Whipped cream may be substituted 
for the egg-white. mountain IiAke park, md. 

MINT GEAPE JUICE 

1 cupful fresh mint leaves 1 pint grape juice 

Few sprigs peppermint Sugar sirup 

1 pint boiling water Sprigs mint 

Pick from the stems the fresh mint leaves. A few sprigs 
of peppermint may be added. Bruise slightly and pour over 



Begipss and Household Discoveeies 3 

fhem the boiling water. Strain when cold and add the grape 
juice with sugar sirup and cracked ice or cold water tp taste. 
A tiny sprig of mint should float in each glass. 

BEDDma, CONN. 



EASPBEERY VINEGAB 

Bed raspberries Sugar 

Moderately strong vinegar Ice-water 

Place the raspberries in a stone jar, cover with one pint of 
moderately strong vinegar to each pint of berries, and let 
stand overnight. Strain off the juice and to each pint add 
two cupfuls of sugar. Boil ten minutes and bottle while hot. 
Dilute with ice^water for serving. suFnEU), oonn. 



TEA PUNCH 

4 cnpfnls water % cupful lemon juice 

2 cupfuls sugar Strong cold tea 

V 

_ « 

Boil sugar and water together for fifteen minutes; cool, 
add lemon juice and freeze in three parts ice to one part salt. 
Serve iq frappe or tall tea-glasses, pouring two or three 
tablespoonf uls of the tea over each serving. 

BS&JEX FALLS, N. J. 



Breads 



ALL-CORN MUFFINS 

1 cupful yellow corn-meal 3 tablespoonfuls sugar 

1 cupful white com flour 1 teaspoonf ul baking-powder 

2 tablespoonfuls fat or % teaspoonful soda 
4 tablespoonfuls cracklings 1 e^, beaten 

1 tablespoonful salt 1 cupful sour milk or buttermilk 

% cupful cold water 

Sift dry ingredients together, add melted fat, egg, milk, 
and lastly the cold water. Bake in mufiSn-pans in a quick 

oven. BEDDING, CONN. 

AN ALL-RYB LOAF 

2% cupf uls rye flour 1 teaspoonful soda 

2 teasx)oonfuls baking-powder 3 tablespoonfuls molasses 

1 teaspoonful salt 1 cupful sour milk or buttermilk 

1 teaspoonful caraway seeds 

Mix thoroughly in order given, making a very stiff dough ; 
wet the hands in cold water to shape the loaf, and bake in a 
moderate oven. The caraway may be omitted and raisins 
or dates added. redding, conn. 

APPLE CORN BREAD 

% cupful corn-meal % teaspoonful baking-powder 

yz cupful bread flour 1 tablespoonful melted shorten- 

1 teaspoonful salt ing 

1 tablespoonful molasses 3 medium-sized apples 

% cupful buttermilk % teaspoonful soda 

Mix all the dry ingredients thoroughly together, add the 
buttermilk, molasses, and shortening, and mix well. Pour 

4 



Becipes and Household Discoveries 5 

into a shallow greased tin, and place the apples, peeled and 
cut in eighths, over the top. Bake in a hot oven three-quar- 
ters of an hour. When done, dust with powdered sugar. 

MILWAUKEE, WIS. 

APPLE JOHNNY-CAKE 

% cnpf nl yellow oom-meal 1 teaspoonf ul shortening 

% cupful white corn-meal About % cupful boiling water 

1 tablespoonful sugar 3 tablespoonfuls milk 

% teaspoonful salt 1 cupful chopped apple 

Mix the yellow and white corn-meal, sugar, salt, and short- 
ening together. Scald with the boiling water, until tiie mix- 
ture is a little thicker than will spread; then add the milk 
and chopped apple. Spread on well-greased tins to a thick- 
ness of one-fourth inch, crease in squares with the back of 
a knife, and bake in a hot oven until light brown. Split, and 
eat buttered, with coffee. The apple may be omitted, if de- 
sired. Either variety makes delicious cream or milk toast. 

CONCORD, MASS. 

4 

BEAUEBGABD TOAST 

6 slices toast 4 hard-cooked eggs 

1 cupful mOk 1 small can muslurooms 

1 tablespoonful butter 2 tablespoonfuls grated cheese 

1 tablespoonful flour Few grains black pepper 

% teaspoonful salt Few grains cayenne pepper 

Make a white sauce of the milk, butter, flour, and seasoning. 
Stir in the whites of the eggs that have been diced, then the 
mushrooms cut fine. Have ready the toast and turn the sauce 
over it. Force the yolks through strainer, sprinkling them 
over the top together with the grated cheese. Atlanta, ga. 



BISHOP'S BREAD 

3 ^gB 1 tablespoonful chopped citron 

% cupful si^ar 2 tablespoonfuls grated sweet 
1% cupfuls pastry flour chocolate 

1 cupful blanched, chopped al- Grated rind one lemon 

monds 1 cupful halved raisins 



6 Good Housekeeping's Book op 

Cream sugar and eggs; mix other ingredients together and 
work into the egg mixture. Pour two inches deep into greased 
cake-pans, and bake in a moderate oven for forty-five 
minutes. Cool, cut in slices, toast quickly, and set aside to 
dry thoroughly. These will keep indefinitely. 

BBAN BREAD WITH YEAST 

1 cupful milk % to 1 yeast-cake 

1 cupful water 3^ cupful warm water 
% cupful sugar 1 tablespoonf ul shortening 

2 teaspoonf ids salt 5 to 6 cupf uls bread flour 

1 cupful bran 

Put sugar, shortening, and salt in mixing-bowl ; pour on the 
scalded milk and boiling water ; when lukewarm add the yeast- 
cake softened in the lukewarm water. Add the bran and 
flour, stirring until thoroughly mixed. Use enough flour to 
make it the consistency of white bread dough. Put to raise. 
When double its bulk, knead into loaves; let raise again and 
bake as white bread. uniontown, pa. 

BRAN GEMS 

1 cupful bread flour 2 tablespoonf uls any vegetable 

2 cupf uls bran oil 

2 teaspoonfuls baking-powder 1 teaspoonf ul salt 
2 tablespoonfuls sirup 1^ cupfuls milk 

Yz cupful raisins chopped 

Mix all the dry ingredients together, add the sirup, short- 
ening, milk, and raisins. Place in greased gem-pans and 
bake in a hot oven for twenty minutes. Other fruits may 
be substituted for the raisins. 

TORONTO, CANADA. 

BREAD-BRAN MUFFINS 

2 cupfuls bran 3^4 tablespoonfuls sugar 

1 cupful dried, ground bread- 1 teaspoonf ul salt 

crumbs 1 egg 

% cupful bread flour 2 cupfuls milk 

4 teaspoonfuls baking-powder 



I Becipes and Household Discoveries 



* 



Mix together dry ingredients, beat egg, add milk, or half 
and half of milk and water, and stir into first mixture. Bake 
about twenty-five minutes in well-oiled gem pans. This will 
make eighteen muffins. w. lafatettb, ikd. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES 

1 quart milk 1 yeast-cake 

2 teaspoonfuls salt % cupful lukewarm water 
% teaspoonful soda 1 cupful buttermilk 

5 cupf uls buckwheat flour 

Scald milk, and cool to lukewarm; add yeast-cake softened 
in the water, salt, and flour to make a rather thick batter. 
Beat well and let rise overnight. In the morning add the soda 
dissolved in the buttermilk. Bake on a hot, greased griddle, 
and serve with butter and sirup. gallicoon, n. y. 

BUCKWHEAT GEMS 

% cupful sugar 1 cupful buckwheat flonr 

1 egg % cupful bread flour 

3 tablespoonfuls butter 1% teaspoonfuls baking-powder 

1 cupful milk % teaspoonful salt 

« 

Beat the sugar into the egg, add the melted butter. Add 
alternately the milk and buckwheat flour; then the wheat 
flour, into which the baking-powder and salt have been sifted. 
Bake in gem-pans. These may be split and served with 
maplcHsirup or honey. obdwat, cal* 

BUTTERMILK WAFFLES 

1 cupful thick buttermilk ^ teaspoonful soda 

^ cupful sweet milk 2^ teaspoonfuls baking-powder 

1 egg 2 tablespoonfuls melted short^i- 

1% cupfuls bread flour ing 

% teaspoonful salt 

Combine the two milks ; add egg yolk, unbeaten, stir in the 
dry ingredients sifted together and then the fat melted. Beat 
well, and lastly fold in the egg white whipped stiff and dry. 
JBake as usual on a waffle iron. book bjll, s. o. 



A . Good Housbidebpino's Book of 



BUTTEBMILK WHEAT CAKES 

1 egg 1 teaspoonf ul salt 

3 enpfuls sour or buttermilk 1% teaspoonf uls soda 

^Vz cnpfuls bread flour 1 teaspoonful baking-powder 

1 tablespoonful melted butter 

Add the egg, well beaten, to the sour or buttermilky and 
sift the flour with the salt, soda, and baking-powder. Pour 
the buttermilk very gradually over the dry ingredients, beat- 
ing the mixture well during the process. When well mixed 
add the melted butter. Now beat vigorously, and pour the 
batter in a pitcher and from the latter pour it onto the smok- 
ing hot griddle after rubbing the latter with a bit of salt 
pork or other fat, and bake a golden brown on both sides. 
Serve with plenty of fresh butter and maple sirup or honejy. 
If the batter seems too thin, you may add more flour to it, 
but the cakes will be better if it is not too thick. 



CABAMBL BISCUITS 

2 cupf uls bread flour ^i eupf ul milk 

4 teaspoonf uls baking-powder ^ cupful water 

1 teaspoonful salt 1 cupful light-brown sugar 

1 tablespoonful lard % cupful butter 

1 tablespoonful butter Nutmeg 

Mix and sift the flour, baking-powder, and salt twice. 
Work in the one tablespoonful of butter and lard with the 
tips of the flngers until it is thoroughly blended. Add the 
milk and water and mix to a soft dough, using a knife. (A 
trifle more liquid may be needed.) Toss on a floured board, 
roll lightly to one-fourth inch thickness. Cream the brown 
sugar and butter together till it is smooth, then spread lightly 
over the dough. Boll up like a jelly roll, fasten end by mois- 
tening with milk or water, and cut in pieces three-fourths inch 
thick. Sprinkle just a little nutmeg over each slice and bake 
in a hot oven flfteen minutes. Serve hot. 

liOS ANGELES, CAL. 



Bbgipes and Household Discoveries 



CARAWAY RYE BREAD 

1 enpf nl scalded milk 2 teaspoonfuls salt 

1 cupful boiling water % to 1 yeast-cake softened in 

4 tablespoonfiils chopped^snet V^ cupful lukewarm water 

^ cupful brown sugar or 2 teaspoonfuls caraway-seeds 

3 tablespoonf uls molasses 3 eupfuls whole-wheat flour 

% cupful walnut meats 3 eupfuls rye flour 

Melt the chopped suet and add to the milk, water, sweet- 
ening, and salt; when luke-warm add yeast and flour; beat 
well, cover, let rise to double its bulk. Again beat, add cara- 
way-seeds and the walnut-meats, if desired. Bake in two 
loaves or use part for muffins. bellows falls, vt. 



CINNAMON TOAST 

Slightly stale bread 1 teaspoonf ul ground cinnamon 

Butter 1 cupful powdered sugar 

Mix together the cinnamon and sugar and transfer to a 
shaker. Cut bread one-fourth inch thick, trim ofE crusts, 
and toast quickly so that it will be soft in the middle. But- 
ter lavishly, shake the cinnamon-mixture over, put together 
in pairs and cut in triangles. Place in a hot oven for a min- 
ute or two and serve on a folded napkin on a hot plate. 

LAKEWOOD, N. J. 



COCOA MUFFINS 

2 tablesx>oonf uls shortening % cupful water 

2 tablespoonfuls cocoa 1^ eupfuls pastry flour 

3 teaspoonfuls baking-powder 2 eggs 

1 cupful sugar % teaspoonful vanilla 

^ teaspoonful salt 

Cream shortening and sugar, add egg-yolks. Combine 
flour, cocoa, and baking-powder; add alternately with the 
water. Add vanilla and fold in stiffly beaten whites of eggs. 
Bake in muffin pans in quick oven. bbensburo, pa. 



10 QOOD HotJSEKEBSlNO'S BoOK OF 



CORN BREAD 

% cupful sugar 1 cupful milk 

2 tablespoonfuls shortening 1 cupful fine dry bread-crumbs 

1 egg 4 teaspoonfuls baking-powder 

^ cupful corn-meal 1 teaspoonful salt 

Cream sugar and shortening together, add yolk of egg; 
add the dry ingredients mixed and sifted together alter- 
nately with the milk. Then fold in the stifBiy-beaten egg- 
white. Bake in a shallow^ well-oiled pan in a moderate oven. 

HASHNGS-ON-HUDSON, N. Y. 



CRACKLING CORN CAKE 

% cupful corn-meal 1 teaspoonful soda 

1 cupful bread flour 1 teaspoonful baking-powder 

% cupful boiling water % cupful chopped veal or pork 

% cupful brown sugar cracklings (the scraps that re- 

2 cupfuls buttermilk main after trying out the fat) 

1 teaspoonful salt 

Moisten the corn-meal with the boiling water and let it 
stand for five minutes. Sift the soda, baking-powder, and 
salt with the wheat flour and add with the rest of the in- 
gredients to the com-meal. Spread thin in a greased drip, 
ping-pan and bake in a hot oven about twenty minutes. 

REDDING, CONN. 



CRUMPETS 

3 cupfuls tepid milk 2 tablespoonfuls melted butter 

1 teaspoonful s^t Bread flour to make a batter, 

Yz compressed yeast-cake about 4 cupfuls 

y^ teaspoonful soda 

Soften the yeast in a little warm milk, add to remain- 
ing milk with the salt, and stir in about four cupfuls of flour, 
or enough to make a muffin-batter ; let stand overnight, and 
in the morning add the melted butter and the soda dis- 
solved in a tablespoonful of hot water. Beat thoroughly. 



Becifbs and Household Discoveries 11 

place in well-oiled mufSn-tins, filling them half fuU, let raise 
about twenty-five minutes, and bake in a hot oven. 

SUFFIELD, CX>NN* 

DELICIOUS QUICK TEA-ROLLS 

1 compressed yeast-cake 1 tablespoonf ul sr^ar 

% cupful scalded milk 3 cupfuls bread flour 

^2 cupful tepid water 2 tablespoonfuls lard or butter 

1 teaspoonful salt 

Add shortening to milk, and let cool till lukewarm. Soften 
yeast and dissolve sugar in the water, combine mixtures, beat 
in half of the flour, whipping till very smooth, then add the 
balance together with the salt. - Knead thoroughly ; roll one- 
fourth inch thick, brush lightly with melted butter, shape 
with a two-inch biscuit-cutter, crease and fold over in a 
pocket-shape. Set to raise in a warm place for about two 
hours, and bake flf teen minutes in a moderate oven. This 
mi&es two dozen small rolls. hampton, va. 

ENGLISH MUFFINS 

1% cupfuls milk 3 cupfuls bread flour 

1 tablespoonful sugar % yeast-cake 

1 teaspoonful salt 1 egg 

% teaspoonful soda 

Heat milk till tepid ; add sugar and salt and the yeast-cake 
softened in a little warm water. Beat in flour to make a 
soft batter, from two to three cupfuls according to the brand 
of flour, and let rise till light, about three hours. Stir in the 
egg weU beaten and the soda, beat thoroughly, and cook in 
muflSn-rings on a griddle. This must be done slowly, about 
twelve minutes being the right length of time, congobd, mass. 

ENGLISH PENNY MUFFINS 

1 compressed yeast-cake 2 tablespoonfuls butter or lard 

1 cupful warm water % teaspoonful salt 

1 cupful milk 1 egg 

% cupful granulated sugar Bread flour 



12 QooD Housekeeping's Book of 

Soften yeast in the warm water and milk mixed ; add salt 
and about a cupful and a half of flour to make a thin batter. 
When light, add sugar, egg and melted butter, and beat vig- 
orously. Stir in flour to make a dough as soft as can be 
handled. When light, knead it, let it raise again, then form 
into small round biscuits, place in well-oiled gem-pans, and 
when very light, bake twelve minutes in a hot oven. This 
makes thirty muffins. toijbdo, ia. 



GEORGIA SPLIT BISCUIT 

3 large Irish potatoes 1 compressed yeast-cake 

Yz cupful butter 1 tablespoonful sugar 

Yz cupful shortening 2 teaspoonf uls salt 

2 oupf uls tepid milk Bread flour to make sponge and 

2 ^;gs to knead, about 11 cupfols 

Pare and boil the potatoes until soft; mash flne while hot; 
add the shortening; and beat the eggs in separately. Then 
add the yeast softened in the milk and enough sifted bread- 
flour to make a sponge, about three cupfuls. Let raise till 
light, then add the salt and sugar, and flour enough to knead 
the mixture to a satin-like dough. Let raise again till light, 
roU one-half inch thick, and cut into flat biscuits. Brush oyer 
the tops with melted butter, place them together in pairs, let 
raise again, and bake in a moderate oven at 375° P. This 
makes from four to flve dozen biscuits. sanfobd, fla. 

GRANDMOTHER'S MUFFINS 

1 cupful corn-meal 2 cupfuls cold water 

1 cupful bread flour 1 tablespoonful shortenmg 

% cupful light brown or maple- % teaspoonf ul soda 
sugar 1 tablespoonful hot water 

1 teaspoonf ul salt 

Mix the com-meal, flour, sugar, salt, and cold water to- 
gether. Let stand overnight. In the morning add the short- 
ening, melted, and the soda dissolved in the hot water. Beat 
very thoroughly, drop into hot, well-greased gem-pans and 
bake in a moderate oven about twenty-flve minutes. 

HASTINGe-ON-HUDSON, N. Y. 



Bbgipeis and Household Discoveries 13 



JOHNNY-CAKE 

1 enpfal yel#w emm-meal % teasiKKnf ul soda 

1 e«pM bread floor ^ teaspoonfnl baking-powder 

}^ cupful sugar 1 teaspoonful salt 

1^ cupfnls soar milk 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients twice, add to this grad- 
ually the sour milk. Beat well and bake in a shallow well- 
greased pan in a moderate oven. lawbence, mass. 



KENTUCKY SPOON BKEAD 

2 cupfnls eom-meal 1% cupfuls buttermilk 

2 teaspoonfuls salt 1 teaspoonful soda 

2 eggs 1^ tablespoonfuls butter 

Scald the corn-meal with enough hot water to make it the 
consistency of mush. Add the salt and butter, and set it 
aside to cool; then beat in the eggs whipped light; dissolve 
the soda in the buttermilk, beat into the mixture, and bake in 
a rather deep greased pan in a quick oven for thirty-five or 
forty minutes. mount sterling, kt. 



MAPLE ROLLS 

2 cupfuls bread flour % cupful milk 

4 teaspoonfuls baking-powder Melted butter 
1 teaspoonful salt Scraped or grated maple^ugar 

2 tablespoonfuls lard 

Make a baking-powder biscuit-dough of the flour, baking- 
powder, salt, lard, and milk. Roll in oblong shape one-half 
inch thick, brush with the melted butter and spread with the 
maple-sugar. Dampen the outer edges with a little cold 
water and roll up firmly. Cut in crosswise slices about one- 
half inch thick, place in a well-oiled baking-pan, cut side 
down, and bake in a hot oven twenty to twenty-five minutes. 

D£S MOINES, U. 



14 Good Housekeeiping's Book op 

MARYLAND SALLY LUNN 

2 tablespoonfnls sugar 3 eggs, separated 

1% tablespoonfuls batter 2 cupf ols bread flour 

y^ teaspoonful salt 2 teaspoonf uls baking-powder 

1 cnpf ul milk 

Cream together the butter and sugar; add the egg-yolks 
beaten thoroughly, and then the flour mixed with the baking- 
powder, alternately with the milk. Fold in egg-whites well 
beaten, and bake about forty minutes in a tube-pan. 

EMMITSBUBG, HD. 

MRS. MELLICK'S CORN MXJFFINS 

2V^ cupf ids granulated com- 5 cupf uls boiling water 

meal ^ cupful cold water 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar 1% cupfuls bread flour 

2 teaspoonfuls salt 4 teaspoonfuls baking-powder 

1 tablespoonful margarin 1 egg 

Mix in a double-boiler one cupful of corn-meal, the sugar, 
one teaspoonful of salt and margarin. Pour over the boiling 
water, stirring constantly, and cook one hour. Turn into a 
bowl, and pour over the cold water. In the morning, beat 
until soft and smooth; then add the rest of the corn-meal, 
bread-flour, salt, and baking-powder sifted together. Add the 
egg, well beaten, and beat all thoroughly. Drop the mixture 
into well-greased gem-pans and bake in a hot oven. 

CONCORD, MASS. 

OATMEAL BREAD 

1 cupful rolled oats % yeast-cake 

% cupful molasses Bread flour 

1 teaspoonful salt 1 pint boiling water 

Pour the water over the oats, then set aside in a covered 
dish till lukewarm ; add the molasses, the yeast-cake softened 
in a little warm water, and a cupful and a half of bread 
flour. When this is spongy, add the salt and enough flour 
to make a dough stiff enough to lift in the hand. Let 
raise till double in bulk. Cut down, and turn into oiled tins. 
Let raise again, and bake about three-quarters of an hour in 
an oven not quite as hot as white bread. This makes two 
loaves and if started early in the morning, can be finished 
about two o'clock. auburn, mil 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 15 



OATMEAL GEMS 

1 enpfol cooked, cold oat-meal 2 tablespoonfob butter 

2 cupfnls bread fionr 1 cupful milk 

3 teaspoonfuls baking-powder 1 egg 

1 tablespoonf ul sugar 1 teaspoonful salt 

Mix together dry ingredients and nib in oatmeal with the 
finger-tips. Beat the egg, add the milk, and turn into first 
mixture. Add melted butter, beat thoroughly, turn into hot, 
oiled gem-pans and bake about twenty-five minutes in a hot 

oven. NEW YORK CITT, N. Y, 

OATMEAL MUFFINS 

2 cupfals dry, rolled oats 1 teaspoonful salt 
1% cupf uls sour milk 2 eggs, well beaten 
% cupful sugar 1 teaspoonful soda 

1 cupful pastry flour 

Soak the oats overnight in the sour milk; in the morning 
add the remainder of the ingredients and bake thirty min- 
utes in a moderate oven. baynham center, mass. 

OLD-FASHIONED CORN BREAD 

2 cupfuls corn-meal 2% cupfuls sour milk 

1 cupful bread flour 2 tablespoonfuls sugar 

1 teaspoonful salt V/^ teaspoonfuls soda 

% teaspoonful baking-powder 

Mix together the corn-meal, fiour, salt, sugar, soda, and 
baking-powder. Sift these ingredients together and then add 
the sour milk. Beat well, pour into a buttered mold with a 
tight-fitting cover, and steam for two hours. Remove from 
mold and brown in the oven. Philadelphia, pa. 

OLIVE BREAD 

V/2 cupfuls bread flour % teaspoonful soda 

1^ cupfuls Graham flour 1 cupful ripe olives 

2 teaspoonfuls baking-powder 1% cupfuls milk 

% cupful molasses 1% teaspoonfuls salt 



16 Qooo Housekeeping's Book op 

Mix thoroughly the flour, salt, and baking-powder. Add 
fioda to the molasses, and combine with mi&. Mix all to- 
gether and beat well. Lastly add the ripe olives, stoned and 
cut into pieces not too fine, turn into a well-greafled loaf- 
pan, bake in a moderate oven for one hour. MOiWAUKEE, wis. 



100% CORN BREAD 

1 egg 2^ cnpfuls corn-meal 

2 cupfuls sour milk 1 teaspoonful baking-powder 
2 teaspoonfuls salt 1 tablespoonf ul vegetable fat 

1 teaspoonful soda 

Beat the egg well. Add the milk and the dry ingredients 
well mixed. Beat thoroughly. Pour into a shallow baking- 
pan, which contains the vegetable fat smoking hot. Spread 
over the bottom of the pan and bake in a hot oven until 
brown. new Orleans, IiA» 

PARKER HOUSE CORN CAKE 

1 cupful bread flour 1 egg 

1 cupful corn-meal % cupful sugar 

1 teaspoonful soda 2 tablespoonfuls melted mar- 

2 teaspoonf uls cream of tartar garin 

1 teaspoonful salt 1 cupful warm milk 

Mix all together the bread flour, eorn-meal, soda, cream of 
tartar and salt. To the egg well beaten add the sugar, 
melted margarin and warm milk. Pour these ingredients 
into the dry mixture and beat well. Bake as usual. 

GONCOBD, MASS. 

POPOVERS 

1 cupful bread flour 1 egg 

%, teaspoonful salt 1 cupful milk 

Mix the salt and flour and add slowly the milk and the egg. 
Beat the whole with a strong Dover egg-beater until smooth 
and bubbly. Orease hot gem-pans, fill them two-tihiirds full of 
the batter and bake thirty-five to forty minutes in hot oven. 



Becopes and Household Discoveeies 17 



PORTSMOUTH CORN BREAD 

1 enpful corn-meal 1 tablespoonf ol melted shartea- 

Boiling water ing 

1 egg % teaspoonful salt 

Scald the com-meal with enough boiling water to make 
as thin as molasses. Add the egg, well beaten, melted short- 
ening, and the salt. Pour into well-greased pans, having the 
mixture one-half inch in thickness, and bake in a hot oven, 

CONCORD, MASS. 



RAISIN CORN BREAD 

1 enpful sonr milk % teaspoonful soda 

1 well-beaten egg 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar 

1 tablespoohful butter, melted 1 cupful bread flour 

1 teaspoonful sugar 1 cupful com-meal 

1% teaspoonfuls salt % cupful raisins 

Mix together the milk, egg, butter, sugar, and salt. Add 
the soda dissolved in a tablespoonful of hot water, and then 
the flour and cream of tartar sifted together. Stir in the 
eom-meal and raisins, and bake in a moderate oven at about 
375® P. for thirty minutes. south pasadena, cal. 



UXBRIDGE JOHNNY-CAKE 

1 enpful com-meal 1 teaspoonful sugar 

Boiling water % teaspoonful salt 

^About % cupful milk 

Scald the meal with about one cupful of absolutely boiling 
water until not quite thin enough to spread; add the sugar 
and salt, and the milk; spread with a knife in a well-greased 
driFping-pan, mark in squares, and brown in a hot oven. 
Serve hot and split and butter, as eaten. Or cover with a 
liiin white sauce and serve with a little crisp bacon; accom- 
panied by a simple salad, this furnishes an ideal luncheon or 
sapper dish. concord, mass. 



18 BBdFBS AND HOUSKHOLD DiSCOVBBIES 



WAFFLES 

1% cupfuls bread flour 1 enpful milk 

3 teaspoonf uls baking-powder 1 tablespoonf ul melted butter 

y2 teaspoonf ul salt 2 eggB 

Beat the whites and the yolks of the eggs separately. Add 
milk to the yolks, and then the flour and baking-powder 
slowly, and stir. Fold in the whites, and add the butter. 
Cook on well-greased waffle-irons. 



Cakes 



A GOOD INEXPENSIVE CAKE 

1 cupful sugar % cupful water 

1 egg % teaspoonful vanilla or other 
5 tablespoonfuls butter iiavoring 

1^ cupfuls pastry flour Few grains salt 

2 teaspoonfuls baking-powder 

Beat the butter to a cream, add the sugar gradually, and 
then the egg-yolk unbeaten. Mix together the flour and bak- 
ing-powder, and add alternately with the water to the first 
mixture, beating very thoroughly, then stir in the egg-white 
whipped stiff, and beat again. Bake in a loaf for about forty- 
five minutes in a moderate oven at about 375^ P. If care- 
fully made as directed, this cake will be of very fine texture. 

CHICAGO, TLSj, 

AUNT REBECCA'S OLD-FASHIONED SPONGE CAKE 

Ij^ cupfuls powdered sugar Juice and rind % lemon 

1 cupful bread flour 5 eggs 

Few grains sdt 

Separate eggs, beat yolks with sugar, till light and creamy, 
at least ten minutes. Then add lemon juice and rind. Beat 
egg-whites stiff, fold into mixture, and then sift in the flour 
and salt slowly, stirring gently. Bake about fifty minutes in 
a slow oven. mobmstown, n. j. 

BEREY LOAF 

H cupful shortening 1 teaspoonful baking-powder 

% cupful brown sugar % teaspoonful soda 

H cupful sour milk % teaspoonful cinnamon 

1 egg % teaspoonful salt 

IVz eupfols pastry flour % teaspoonful nutooeg 

1 cupful cooked berries, drained 

19 



20 Good Housekheping's Book of 

Cream together the shortening and the brown sugar; 'add 
the milky egg well beaten, and all the dry \ngredients sifted 
together. Then add the berries. Mix thoroughly together 
and bake in a well-greased loaf -cake pan. redding, oonn. 

BOILED RAISIN CAKE 

1% cnpf uls seeded raisins % cupful raisin water 

% cupful sugar 1 well-beaten egg 

^ cupful butter 1 teaspoonf ul soda 

1% cupfiils pastry flour 1 teaspoonful nutm^ 

1 teaspoonful cinnamon 

Cover the raisins with boiling water and simmer twenty 
minutes. Cream the sugar with the butter, add flour, raisin 
water, eggy soda (sifted with the flour), nutmeg, cinnamon, 
and raisins, dredged with one-fourth cupful of the flour. Bake 
in a shallow cake-tin in a moderate oven. 

OAK BLUFFS, MASS. 

BOSTON CAKE 

1 cupful sugar !4 teaspoonfid salt 

% cupful butter 1 teaspoonful baking-powder 

2 eggs ^ cupful corn-starch 

1 cupful pastry flour % cupful milk 

1 teaspoonful vanilla 

Cream together the sugar and butter, break into this one 
egg, and beat. Sift the flour three times, the last time add- 
ing the salt, baking-powder, and cornstarch. Add a little of 
this to the first mixture, stir in the second egg, and the milk, 
then the remaining flour and the vanilla. Bake in a moder- 
ate oven, in a loaf or in two layers. If the layers are used, put 
together with chocolate frosting and cream filling. 

PEEKSKILL, N. Y. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE 

2 eapfnls powdered sugar % cupful milk 

4 eggs 1 cupful pastry flour 

% cake bitter chocolate 1 teaspoonful baking-powder 

1 teaspoonful vanilla 



Bbcipes and Household Discoveries 21 

Melt chocolate, add the milk. Cream sugar and e^ yolks to- 
gether, then add chocolate mixture, flour, and whites of eggs 
beaten until stiff. Bake in a shallow pan. Ice with cold or 
boiled icing. mount vernon, ill. 

COCOA APPLE-SAUCE CAKE 

1 cupful sugar 1 tablespoonf ul cocoa 

% cupful sour cream 1 teaspoonful cinnamon 

1 cupful hot, sour apple sauce % teaspoonful cloves 
IVk teaspoonfuls soda 2 cupfuls bread flour 

1 cupful raisins 

Mix together cocoa, spices, flour, and raisins. In a sepa- 
rate bowl, put the sugar, cream, and hot apple sauce into 
which the soda has been stirred. Beat in the flour mixture 
and bake in a well-lined loaf or tube-tin for forty-five minutes 
in a moderate oven. Frost with sour cream icing. 

WARSAW, N. T. 

COCOA CAKE 

% cupful sugar ^ teaspoonful vanilla 

i^ cupful cocoa V^ cupful shredded coconut 

1 cupful sour milk 1 tablespoonful shorteniag 

2 cupfuls barley flour 1 teaspoonful soda 

^ teaspoonful salt 1 tablespoonful hot water 

Mix the cocoa and sugar, add the shortening, and blend 
thoroughly. Add salt and sour milk. Beat until smooth, 
and add soda dissolved in hot water. Beat again while add- 
ing the barley flour. Pour into a greased and floured shal- 
low pan, sprinkle with coconut, and bake in a moderate oven 
for about twenty-five minutes. brattljbboro, vt. 



COCONUT CAKE 

1 cupful coconut 3 ^gs 

1 cupful milk 2% cupfuls pastry flour 

% cupful butter 1 teaspoonful balong-powder 

2 cupfuls sugar % teaspoonful vanilla 



22 QooD Housekeeping's Boos of 

Soak the coconut in milk for ten minutes. In the mean^ 
time, cream butter and sugar, add flavoring and eggs well 
beaten, and then add flour mixed with the baking-powder 
alternately with the milk. Turn into a tube-tin and bake 
about fifty minutes in a 350® F. oven. Ice with plain boiled 
frosting containing a half cupful of coconut. 

AUBOBA, N. Y. 

COFFEE CKEAM SPONGE CAKE 

4 ^gg-yolks Whites of 4 eggs 
3 tablespoonfuls coffee infusion Filling: 

1 cupful sugar 1 cupful granulated sugar 

1 cupful pastry flour % cupful brown sugar 
1% teaspoonf uls baking-powder i^ cupful coffee infusion 
% teaspoonf ul salt Whites of 2 eggs 

5 teaspoonfuls cornstarch 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

1 cupful shredded coconut 

Beat the egg yolks until creamy. Add the three tablespoon- 
fuls of coffee infusion and continue beating. Add sugar 
gradually, and beat until thick. Sift together the flour, bak- 
ing-powder, salt, and corn-starch. Add to the mixture care- 
fully. Beat the whites of the eggs until stiff, and fold into 
the mixture. Pour into two layer-cake pans and bake^ at 
320^ F. for thirty minutes. Put the layers together with the 
following fllling: Place the granulated sugar, brown sugar, 
and coffee infusion in a saucepan, and cook until the mix- 
ture threads. Pour the sirup on the beaten whites of the 
eggs and beat until the mixture thickens; then add the 
shredded coconut and vanilla. Spread between layers and 
on top of the cake. new yoek, n. y. 

COLLEGE FUDGE CAKE 

2 squares unsweetened chocolate % teaspoonful salt 

% cupful hot water 1% cupfuls pastry flour 

Yolk of 1 egg V/z teaspoonfuls baking-powder 

^ cupful shortening 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

1 cupful sugar 1 scant teaspoonful soda 

% cupful boiling water 

Put the chocolate and hot water in a saucepan and cook and 
stir about three minutes till thick and glossy. Remove from 



Begifes and Household Disoovbbies 23 

the fire, add the egg-yolk, butter, sugar, and salt. Stir in the 
flour sifted with the baking-powder, salt, soda, and the va- 
nilla. At the last, stir in the boUing water. Beat until 
smooth, pour into a shallow pan, bake in a moderate oven 
about thirty minutes. Frost with boiled icing. 

SPRINGFIELD, MASS. 



CREAM BLUEBEKBY GINGEBBEBAD 

1 enpfnl blueberries 2 cupf uls pastry flour 

1 cupful molasses % teaspoonf ul salt 

1 cupful sour cream 1 teaspoonf ul ginger 

2 teaspoonf uls soda 

Mix together the molasses and cream, but reserve one- 
fourth cupful of the flour to mix with the blueberries. Add 
the dry ingredients to the molasses mixture. Fold in the blue- 
berries, and place in the oven as quickly as possible. Bake 
gently for thirty minutes. The gingerbread ^ould be about 
one and one-half inches thick. yonkebs, n. y. 



(( 



DOM ECON" CAKE 



2 squares chocolate 1 cupful sugar 

% cupful butter 1 cupful pastry flour 

^ cupful boiling water % cupful sour milk 

1 egg % teaspoonf ul soda 

Pour water over chocolate and butter, stir until melted. 
Add sugar, flour, with which soda has been sifted, and milk. 
Break whole egg in last and beat. Bake in two layers and 
use this filling; 

1 cupful milk 1 square chocolate 

2 tablespoonfuls flour % cupful sugar 

1 egg-yolk 

Scald milk and melt chocolate in it ; beat egg-yolk and add 
sugar and flour mixed together. Pour hot milk over the egg 
mixture; cook in a double^boiler until it forms a custard. 
Cool and place between the layers. Ice the top of the cake 
with any white frosting. troy, pa. 



-t I 



24 QooD HousEKEEPiNa's Book of 



EGGLESS CHOCOLATE CAKE 

2 squares chocolate 1 teaspoonf nl soda 

1 cupful sugar 1 cupful milk 

1 tablespoonful melted shorten- 1^ cupf uls bread flour 
ing 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

^ teaspoonful saJt 

Dissolve tho soda in a half-cupful of milk. Grate the 
chocolate and melt it in the remainder of the milk. Mix 
together the sugar and shortening, add vanilla, salt, the soda 
dissolved in the milk, and the flour ; beat thoroughly. Then 
beat in the milk, still hot, in which the chocolate has been 
melted. Bake in a loaf about fifty minutes in a moderate 
oven. This cake will keep moist for several days. 

HOIiYOEEy MASS. 

EGGLESS NUGGET CAKE 

2 cupf uls light-brown sugar % teaspoonful soda 

% cupful shortening 1 teaspoonful baking-powder 

1 cupful sour milk 1 cupful raisins or chopped 

2 cupf uls pastry flour dates 

% teaspoonful salt 1 cupful walnut or pecan meats 

2 squares chocolate 

Cream the shortening and the sugar. Sift the salt, bak- 
ing-powder and soda with the flour. Mix the flour and milk 
with shortening and sugar, and add the nuts, raisins and 
lastly chocolate, which has been melted over hot water. Bake 
thirty-five minutes in a moderate oven. Frost with mocha 
frosting. Cambria, wis. 

FAIRY GINGEBBEEAD 

% cupful butter 1 egg 

1 cupful sugar 1 teaspoonful soda 

1 tablespoonful ginger % cupful milk 

2 cupfuls bread flour 

Cream the butter, add sugar gradually, and when very 
light, add the soda dissolved in a tablespoonful of water and 
mixed with the milk. Then turn in the beaten egg, the gin- 



Becipes and Household Discoveries 25 

ger, and stir in the flour. Clean the bottoms of several square 
baking-pans and brush them with oil or suet. Spread the mix- 
ture over these in the thinnest possible layer, using the pans 
upside down. Bake them in a moderate oven, and as soon 
as they are light brown, take them out, cut down the center 
and then across, making four pieces. Boll each quickly over 
a pencil or steel, starting with the cut edge. This must be 
done while the wafers are hot, and as they cool quickly, it is 
wiser not to bake more than two pans at a time. 



GABBIELLE CAKE 

3 cnpfuls brown sugar 1 teaspoonful soda 

2 cupf uls butter 4% cupf uls pastry flour 

5 eggs 1 pound raisias 

1 cupful milk Citron as desired 

Juice and rind 1 lemon 1 nutmeg 



Cream butter and sugar; add the egg-yolks, beaten very 
light; then the milk, gradually, with the soda dissolved in 
it; then the whites, beaten stiff, and then the flour, lemon, 
and nutmeg. Beserve a little of the flour, and dust the fruit 
with it last of all; beat well. This makes two good loaves, 
and will keep well. concord, mass. 



GBAHAM CBACEEB CAKE 

1 cupful sugar 2 teaspoonf uls baking-powder 

^2 cupful butter or margarin 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

1^ cupfuls milk 1 pound powdered Graham 

3 eggs crackers 

1 teaspoonful salt 



Cream together shortening and sugar, then add the egg- 
yolks one at a time, and the milk, alternating with the gra- 
ham crackers mixed with the baking-powder and salt. Add 
flavoring and the egg-whites beaten stiff and bake in layers 
or a loaf. Ice with Quality Frosting. The crackers should 
be rolled and sifted. sakfdrd, VLk. 



26 QooD Housbkee3>ing's Book of 

mCKOBT-NUT CAKE 

1 otipfnl bntter 1 capful chopped hickoiy-nnt 

2 cupfuls sugar meats 

4 eggs 2% cupfuls pastry flomr 

% cupful milk 1 teaspoonful lemon juice 

1 cupful chipped raisins % teaspoonful soda 

% teaspoonful salt 

Cream together the bntter and sugar, add lemon juice and 
the eg^-yolks beaten till lemon-colored. Sift together the 
soda, salt, and flour, add the nut-meats and raisins, and stir 
alternately into the cake-mixture with the milk. Then fold 
in the egg-whites beaten stiff and dry. Bake an hour in a 
moderate oven and ice with plain white frosting. 

KBDDINai OONN. 

HOT WATER SPONGE CAKE 

2 eggs ^ cupful hot water 
1 cupful sugar 1 cupful bread flour 
^2 teaspooi]$ul vanilla % teaspoonful salt 

1^ teaspoonfuls baking-powder 

Separate eggs; beat yolks till thick, add sugar gradually, 
and then the vanilla. Stir in the hot water; add this mix- 
ture to the flour, baking-powder, and salt, which should be 
sifted together, stirring only enough to mix the ingredients. 
Beat egg-whites till stiff, fold into the mixture, and bake 
about fifty minutes in a very moderate oven. If desired, 
stemmed and halved strawberries, pitted cherries, or sTiced 
peaches, well sprinkled with sugar, may be put in the bottom 
of a greased baking-pan, and this mixture poured over. It 
then becomes a pudding and should be eaten with a vanilla 
sauce or whipped cream. van west, o. 

IDLEWILD MAPLE CAKE 

1 cupful crushed maple-sugar 1 cupful sour cream 
1 egg 2 cupfuls bread flour 

Few grains salt 1 teaspoonful soda 

If the maple-sugar is hard, crush till of the consistency of 
brown sugar, or if very dry, let it stand an hour or two in 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 27 

the cream until dissolved. Add the egg to the sugar, and 
stir thoroughly. Turn in the cream, and then beat in the 
flour sifted with the soda. Bake in square layer-cake pans. 
A half cupful of walnut-meats is a delicious addition. Put 
together with maple frosting. Washington^ d. o. 



LIGHT FRUIT CAKE 

2 cnpf uls butter Rosewater 

2 eupf uls sugar 1 pound candied pineapple 

4 cupfuLs pastry flour 1 pound candied cherries 

8 eggs 1 pound blanched almonds 

Brandy % pound citron 

1 coconut; grated 

Shred the cherries, cut the pineapple and citron in bits, 
and chop the almonds. With the fruit mix three tablespoon- 
fuls of brandy, and with the almonds two tablespoonfuls of 
rosewater, and allow all to stand overnight. Wash the but- 
ter in rosewater, cream it with the sugar, add the egg-yolks 
well beaten, then the coconut, flour, one cupful of brandy, 
and the egg-whites (whipped stiff), putting them in alter- 
nately. Finally, stir in the fruit and nuts. Bake very 
slowly from four to five hours. One-half pound of desic- 
i5ated coconut, chopped fine and allowed to stand in two 
tablespoonfuls of rosewater or milk, may be substituted for 
the fresh coconut. The amounts given will make three 
medium-^ized cakes or one large one, which will keep in- 
definitely. Cider or white grape juice may be used in place 
of the brandy. 

LUNCHEON CAKE 

1 cupful brown sugar 1 cupful raisins 

y2 cupful shortening 1 cupful strained stewed toma* 

1 teaspoonful cinnamon toes 

1 teaspoonful cloves 2 cupfuls pastry flour 

2 teaspoonf uls soda 

Cream sugar and shortening together, add spice and 
raisins; then to the stewed tomato add the soda ; beat well and 
stir all together rapidly with the sifted flour. Bfi^e in a 



28 Good Housekeepinq's Book of 

loaf pan. A moist and excellent cake, very wholesome tov 
children's school luncheons. BoaESS^ ask, 



MBASUBBD POUND CAKE 

5 enpfuls pastry flour * 1^^ cupf uls milk 

3 cupfuls sugar 9 ^gs 

2 cupfuls butter 2 teaspoonfuls baking-powder 

1 teaspoonf ul ahnond extract 

Work butter and sugar together till creamy; then add the 
extract and egg-yolks well beaten. Sift together the flour 
and baking-powder, and add alternately with milk; then stir 
in the egg-whites, beaten very stiflE. Bake in two brick- 
shaped tins for an hour at 375^ F. 

OEAFTONy MO, 

MOIST GINGERBREAD 

1 tablespoonful shortening 1 teaspoonful soda 

1 cupful molasses 1^ teaspoonfuls ginger 
ly^ teaspoonfuls salt % teaspoonful cloves 

2 cupfuls pastry flour Hot water 

« 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients; add the molasses. Put 
the shortening in a cup and fill with boiling water. When 
the shortening is melted, add to the mixture. Beat well, pour 
into a greased cake-pan or muffin-pans. Bake in a moder- 
ate oven twenty-five minutes. houlton, me. 



MOTHER'S PORK CAKE 

1 pound fat salt pork 2 eggs 

2 cupfuls boiling water 2 teaspoonfuls soda 

1 pound chopped raisins 1 teaspoonful ginger 

2 cupfuls sugar 1 teaspoonful cinnamon 
About 9 cupfuls pastry flour 1 teaspoonful nutmeg 

2 cupfuls molasses 1 teaspoonful cloves 

Put the pork through a food-chopper; place it in a laroe 
mixing-bowl and pour the boiling water over it. Add the 
sugar, the molasses, the eggs well beaten, and the soda and 



Bscn^ss AND Household Discoveries 29 

spices sifted with one-half the flour. Then add the raisins 
well d^ted with more of the flour. Then add more flour, 
enoughi;o make the usual cake batter. Bake in a well greased 
and floured deep, round pan in a slow (275° P.) oven for 
five to six hours. auburn, he. 



MES. WING'S PRUNE CAKE 

1% cupfuls stewed prunes, 5 tablespoonfnls sonr cream or 

stoned milk 

V/s cupfuls sugar 1 teaspoonful cinnamon 

1% cupfuls pastry flour 1 teaspoonful nutmeg 

1 teaspoonful soda 1 teaspoonful cloves 

% teaspoonful baking-powder % teaspoonful lemon extract 

^ teaspoonful salt 2 egg-yolks 

y^ cupful butter 1 whole egg 

Cream together the sugar and butter, add the eggs beaten, 
the sour milk, prunes, and lemon-extract, and the flour, bak- 
ing-powder, soda, salt, and spices sifted together. Pour into 
layer-cake pans and bake thirty minutet^ in a moderate oven, 
starting at 375° F. and reducing heat. Put together with 
white boiled frosting. If desired one-half cupful of chopped 
walnut meats may be added with the flour. This cake keeps 
moist for some time, and is also delicious put together with 
whipped and sweetened cream. eurbka, gal. 



ORANGE CAKE 

1 cupful sugar 1 cupful bread flour 

3 egg-yolks 1^ teaspoonfuls baking-powder 

Juice 1 orange ^ 2 egg-whites 

Few grains salt 

Beat the egg-yolks till creamy, add the sugar, and blend 
thoroughly. Measure the orange juice and add water, if nec- 
essary, to make a half-cupful of liquid. Mix the baking- 
powder with the flour, and add alternately to flrst mixture 
with the orange juice. Fold in the egg-whites beaten stiff. 
Bs^e in layers about flve minutes in a hot oven, reduce the 
heat, and cook more slowly till the cake is done, about fif- 
teen minutes in all. Put together and ice with orange frost- 



30 Good Housekeepino's Book of 

ing, or use a jelly or whipped-cream filling, and sprinUe 
powdered sugar over the top. This cake will keep moist 
for several days. Toronto, can. 

ORANGE CHOCOLATE CAKE 

% poimd bitter chocolate 2 eggs 

^ cupful shortening 2 teaspoonfuls vanilla 

iVz cupfuls sugar 1 teaspoonful soda 

1^ cupfuls mUk % teaspoonful salt 

2 cupfuls pastry flour 3 tablespoonfuls hot water 

Orange icing 

Cut up the chocolate and put in a saucepan with the milk 
and one-half cupful of the sugar, letting it heat to boiling 
point, stirring occasionally, and boiling five minutes. Cool 
and add the vanilla. In the meantime cream the shortenmg 
and the remaining sugar thoroughly together, add the eggA 
beaten and stir vigorously. Add the hot water. Alternate 
the fiour sifted with soda and salt, and the chocolate mixture, 
stirring them in thoroughly. Bake in two layers in a mod- 
erate oven (375® F.) for thirty minutes. Put together and 
cover the top with orange icing, or put together with straw- 
berry cinnamon filling just before serving, and cover the top 
with whipped and sweetened cream. sanfosd, fla. 

QUICK SPICE CAKE 

5 tablespoonfuls soft lard or 1% cupfuls pastry flour 

drippings 3 teaspoonfuls baking-powder 

1^ cupfuls medium brown sugar % teaspoonful nutmeg 

2 ^gs Vl teaspoonful clove 

% cupful cold water 1 cupful halved raisins 

Put all ingredients together in a bowl and beat thoroughly. 
Turn into a medium-sized cake-pan and bake in a moderate 
oven about forty-five minutes. Ice with brown sugar frost- 
ing. WOBCESTEB^ MASS. 

RAISIN CAKE 

1 cupful brown sugar % teaspoonful baking-soda 

1 cupful water % cupful barley flour 

2 tablespoonfuls chicken fat % cupful wheat flour 
% teaspoonful salt i^ teaspoonful cloves 

^ pound raisins ^ teaspoonful cinnamon 



Bbcifes and Household Discoveries 31 

Boil together for five minutes the sugar, water, shortening, 
salt, and raisins. Let stand until thoroughly cold and add 
the dry ingredients sifted together. Bake in a loaf -pan about 
one hour in a slow oven. This may be served as a dessert 
with a sauce if desired. moylan, pa. 



SOTJB MILE OINGEBBBEAD 

1 cnpful molasses % teaspoonfnl grated nutmeg 

1 cnpful brown sugar 3^ cupf uls bread flour 

1 cupful shortening 2 teaspoonf uls soda 

1 teaspoonf ul ground cinnamon % teaspoonf ul salt 

1 tablespoonf ul ginger 1 cupful sour milk or buttermilk 

Place in a deep bowl the molasses^ brown sugar, shorten- 
ing, cinnamon, ginger, and nutmeg. Stand the bowl in a 
warm place or in hot water until the shortening softens, then 
beat the contents to a cream. Sift together the bread flour, 
soda, and salt. Add these to the other ingredients, alternating 
with the sour milk or buttermUk. Beat vigorously and bake 
forty minutes in a moderate oven. Philadelphia, pa. 

STBAWBEERY CAKE 

One-egg cake mixture Whites of 2 ^gs 

1 cupful sugar 1 cupful ripe ^rawberries 

Bake the cake in two layers. Put the strawberries, crushed, 
in a bowl ; add the sugar. Beat the egg-whites stiff and dry, 
then add the berries and sugar graduaUy, continuing the beat- 
ing until it will hold its shape. Put the cake on a large plate 
with the filling between the layers and on top, and garnish 
with whole berries. 

AEBON, 0. 

WHITE LATEB CAKE 

1% eupfuls granulated sugar 3 cupf uls pastry flour 

% cupful butter 4 teaspoonfuls baking-powder 

1 cupful milk 1 teaspoonf ul vanilla 

6 egg-whites 



32 Becipes and Household Discoveries 

Cream the butter, add sugar gradually, and cream till very 
light and fluffy. Sift flour and baking-powder together three 
times, add this alternately with the milk to the first mixture 
until all is used. Then fold in the egg-whites beaten stiff 
and the vanilla. Bake in three small or two large, well-oiled 
layer-eake pans for forty minutes in a moderate oven, 375° F. 
for the first thirty minutes, then at a lower heat. Put to- 
gether with thick white icing. MmnLETOWN, ind. 



YALE BLUEBERRY CAKE 

% cupful butter % teaspoonful salt 

^ cupful sugar Few drops lemon or orange ex- 

1 egg tract 

1% cupfulfl pastry flour % cupful water 

% teaspoonful soda 1 cupful blueberries 

1 teaspoonful cream of tartar 

Cream together butter, sugar, and egg-yolk; sift the flour 
with the soda, cream of tartar, and salt, and add alternately 
with the water to first mixture. Add flavoring and egg-white 
beaten stiff. Sja-ead half the batter in a pan, add berries to 
remaining batter, and spread on top. Bake about forty-five 
minutes in a moderate oven, habvaed, mass. 



0>nfection8 



CARAMELS 

2 paands light-brown sugar 1 cupful nut-kernels^ preferably 

% eupful butter black walnuts. 

1 pint new milk 

Bring sugar, butter, and milk to boiling-point, then stir con- 
stantly till the mixture is so thick that a ball of caramel 
texture will be formed when a little is dropped into ice-cold 
water. Add nuts while still over the heat, remove the spoon 
before boiling ceases, and pour into a buttered pan to the 
depth of half an inch. When cool turn the sheet of caramel 
upon a board or marble slab, cut in squares, and wrap in 
paraffin-paper. Care should be exercised in finishing the 
caramels. Be sure to remove the spoon before the mixture 
ceases to boil, and do not drain the kettle or the caramel will 
sugar ; instead pour the mixture out quickly and scrape what 
remains into another dish. To vary the caramels add a cupful 
of grated chocolate, or omit the nuts and flavor with a tea- 
spoonful of vanilla. These directions should be followed care- 
fully, Mn>DIiET0WN, IND. 

CHOCOLATE MINT FUDGE 

4 eupfuls light-brown sugar % cupful mint-sirup 

1% eupfuls milk 1 tablespoonful butter 

4 tablespoonfuls cocoa 

Mix sugar, milk, butter, and mint-sirup. When mixture 
comes to a boil, add cocoa. Cook slowly to 238° P. or until it 
forms a soft ball when dropped in cold water. Put kettle into 
a pan of cold water and beat until stiff. Pour into buttered 
pan and cut in squares. tebrb haute« jnd. 

as 



34 Good Houseeeepino's Book of 



CHOCOLATE NOUGAT 

2 onnceB unsweetened ehoeolate 4 tablespoonfuls butter 

2 cnpf nls sugar 2 teaspoonf uls glucose 

% cupful water 1 cupful shredded English wal- 

1 teaspoonf ul vanilla nut meats 

Shred or grate the chocolate, and put it into a saucepan 
with the sugar, water, butter, and glucose. Stir over the 
fire until dissolved, then remove the spoon and boil until a 
little forms a soft ball when tested in cold water, or until 
240° P. is registered by the candy thermometer. Pour into 
a wet bowl, add the shredded English walnut meats, vanilla, 
and stir occasionally until thick. Line a small wafer or 
cracker tin with wafer paper, pour in the nougat mixture, 
and cover with another piece of wafer paper. Set aside to 
cool, then turn out and cut in convenient-sized pieces. Serve 
in paper cases. OBADEitL, n.j. 



- COCONUT CAKES 

% lb. dried, shredded coconut 1 can condensed milk 

Mix together and drop from a spoon on a well-oiled pan. 
Cook in a slow oven for twenty-five minutes. This recii)e 
makes three dozen cookies. xtbbana, o. 

CONSERVATION SWEETMEATS 

1 package dates (10 ounces) ^/4 pound seeded raisins 

Ys teaspoonful ground cinnamon ^ pound dipping chocolate 

% teaspoonful vanilla 

Put the dates and raisins through the food-chopper; add 
the flavoring. Form into small baUs. Melt the chocolate in 
a double-boiler. Drop the sweetmeats into the melted choco- 
late one at a time. Remove with a silver form and place on 
waxed paper to cool and harden. To retain the glaze on 
chocolate-covered candies, add one tablespoonful of olive-oil 
or one-half ounce of cocoa butter to the chocolate. 

HABTFOBD, CONN. 



Besgifes and Household Discovsbobs 35 



CORN CEUNCH 

2 enpfuls com-sirnp 1 teaspoonful margarin 

1 cupful nut meats (not 1 cupful raisins (not chopped) 
chopped) 

Cook corn-sirap until it forms a hard ball in water. Remove 
from fire; add margarin. When margarin has melted, stir 
in nuts and raisins. Pour into a greased pan. When partly 
cooled, mark into squares, or wait until cool and then break 
into irregular pieces. hyattsvuxb, hd. 

CORN FLAKE KISSES 

2 cupf uls com flakes 1 cupful granulated sugar 
2 egg-whites 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

1 cupful coconut 

Beat the whites of the eggs till stiff and dry ; gradually add 
the sugar, and beat continuously for two minutes, then add 
the other ingredients, stirring only long enough to mix thor- 
oughly. Drop by teaspoonfuls on oiled paper, and bake in 
a very moderate oven. This recipe will make about two and 
a half dozen kisses. peein, jlu 

CREAM ALMOND DATES 

% cupful fondant Stoned dates 

Coloring Flavoring 

% cupful ground almonds 

Put into a saucepan the fondant and ground almonds, and 
stir and thit thoroughly over the fire. Turn out onto a board 
and knead in color and flavor as desired. Roll in oval por- 
tions and place in the centers of stoned dates. Decorate to 
taste with crystallized mint-leaves, violets, or rose-leaves. 

OBADICLLy N. J. 

DATE KISSES 

2 egg-whites 1 cupful broken walnut meats 

1 eupful powdered sugar 1 cupful chopped dates 



36 Bbgipes and Household Discovebibs 

Beat e^-whites stiff, add other ingredients in the order 
given, drop from a teaspoon into buttered pans, and bake till 
delicately brown in a slow oven. This makes two and a half 
dozen kisses. hackensaok, n. j. 

PECAN PRALINES 

1 pound brown siigar ^ cupful butter 

2 cupf uls whole pecan meats ^ cupful water 

Stir the sugar, water, and butter together over a slow fire 
until the sugar is thoroughly dissolved. Add the pecans and 
boil until the thermometer registers 254^ F. or until the 
mixture forms a hard ball when tested in cold water. Have 
ready a large slab, clean and well oiled, and drop the mix- 
ture like pancakes, allowing them to spread out till about 
one-third inch thick and five inches in diameter. Work 
quickly. new Orleans^ la. 

RUSSIAN TOFFY 

^ pound li^t-brown sugar 2 teaspoonf uls butter 

1 can condensed milk 1 tablespoonful vanilla 

Melt butter, sugar, and milk together in a saucepan over 
a slow fire. Do not let the mixture bum, but as it browns 
on the bottom, scrape it off and stir it in until the color 
becomes a golden brown. Stir constantly. It takes from 
fifteen to twenty minutes. When done, add vanilla and pour 
in a buttered p .m. Cut into squares when it begins to harden. 

NEWTON, N« J. 



Cheese Dishes 



BAKED CHEESE 

Battered bread % cupf nl milk 

1% cupf uls dieed cheese Salt, pepper, and paprika to 

1 egg taste 



Butter a fire-proof baking-dish and line it with the buttered 
bread, laying whole slices on the bottom, cutting small pieces 
to fill in around these, and standing long strips of bread 
around the sides. Put in the cheese; beat the egg and add 
to it the milk and the seasoning, the amount of which depends 
on the strength of the cheese; pour this mixture over the 
cheese and bake in a moderate oven till the cheese is melted 
and the dish is brown. As it is better to entirely cover the 
cheese with the milk mixture, a bowl or casserole with sloping 
sides is the best to use. More milk can be added if a very 
moist dish is desired. miffintown, pa. 



CHEESE PUDDING 

V/4 cnpfals grated cheese % teaspoonful salt 

1 cupful cracker-crumbs % teaspoonful dry mustard 

2 cupf uls rich milk Few grains red pepper 

3 eggs Vs teaspoonful soda 

1% tablespoonf uls melted butter 

Soak crumbs in the milk while the other ingredients are 
being prepared; add the eggs well beaten, the seasonings, 
butter and cheese, and the soda dissolved in a little hot water. 

«7 



38 Good Housexeesinq's Book of 

Bake an hour in a moderate oven, serving in the dish in which 
it is cooked. fort smiths abk. 



CHEESE RAREBIT WITH MILK 

V/z cupfuls cheese^ cubed or % teaspoonfnl mustard 

sliced Few grains paprika 

2 ^;gs 2 cupfuls scalded milk 

2 tablespoonf uls flour 2 tablespoonfuls butter (omit if 

Yz teaspoonful salt desired) 

Ys teaspoonful pepper 

Mix ingredients in the order given in a double boiler top. 
Add milk and stir over hot water until thick and smooth. 
Serve on toast or crisp crackers. new yobk, n. y. 

CHEESE WITH CHIVES 

1 cream cheese 1 teaspoonful chopped chives 

% teaspoonful salt 2 tablespoonfuls sweet cream 

Paprika 

Beat the sweet cream into the cheese, add salt, chives, and 
paprika to make it sidmon-color. Reshape into a roll, chill, 
and slice for serving. This can be made into a delicious salad 
by forming into small baUs^ and serving on lettuce or cress 
with French dressing. Brooklyn, n. y. 

CHINESE RAREBIT 

1 cupful boiled rice 1% teaspoonfuls salt 

4 well-beaten eggs 1 teaspoonful Worcestershire 

4 tablespoonfuls milk sauce 

2 tablespoonfuls butter % teaspoonful pepper 

1 cupful cheese 

Sauti the rice in butter, add the eggs with the milk, and 
cook slowly. When nearly thick enough add salt and pepper, 
Worcestershire sauce, and the cheese grated. Just allow the 
cheese to melt. The mixture should be of the consistency 
of thin scrambled eggs» Serve on toast or crackers. 

DANBUBY, CONN. 



Begifes and Household Discoveries 39 



COMBINATION RAREBIT 

% cupful grated cheese 1 cupful milk 

% pound spaghetti^ cooked ten- % teaspoonful salt 

der Vs teaspoonful pepper 

1 cupful minced, boiled, or fried ^ cupful dry bread-crumbs 
ham mixed with 

2 tablespoonf uls butter 2 tablespoonf uls butter or melted 

2 tablespoonfuls flour ham-fat 

Butter a casserole. Melt the butter in a saucepan, gradu- 
ally add the flour and seasonings, and then the milk i^d 
cheese, allowing the latter to melt. Put a layer of the 
spaghetti in the casserole, sprinkle over a little of the ham 
and then some of the sauce. Continue in this way till all 
is used, top with the crumbs, and bake fifteen minutes in a 
hot oven. The proportions of ham, spaghetti, and cheese 
may be varied as may seem advisable if left-overs are being 
utilized. Hamilton, mont. 

COTTAGE CHEESE 

3 quarts freshly soured milk Salt 

Hot water Sweet cream 

Place the sour milk in a large crockery bowl — a large 
quantity of milk should always be used. Pour hot water 
dowly into it. The water should be about 150° P., not boiling. 
Continue pouring in the hot water until the mixture is luke- 
warm. Let it stand for two or three hours or until cold, and 
then pour it into a cheese-cloth strainer to drain for several 
hours. Before serving the cheese, break it into fine pieces with 
a silver fork and mash well. Season with salt to taste and add 
sweet cream, if necessary, to make it soft and moist. Stir till 
well mixed, and pack it into molds. Chill and serve. 

COTTAGE CHEESE WITH DATES 

^ eapfol stoned dates 1% cupfuls cottage cheese 

Cut dates in halves and steam them until tender enough to 
laefoe easily with a fork. When cool mix lightly with the 



40 Good Housbkee3»ing*s Book of 

cheese. Chill, and serre with cream and toasted wafers as 
a luncheon dish. Enough to serve three. dovs», minn. 

DAINTY CHEESE 

1 cupful cream cheese 1 hard-cooked egg, chopped fine 

1 tablespoonf ul melted butter H teaspoonf ul salt 

15 stuffed olives, chopped Few grains cayenne pepper 

H teaspoonful onion-juice 

Mash the cheese, add ingredients in order given, mix well, 
pack into a mold, and when very cold turn out and serve 
with crackers. 

PIGS AND CHEESE 

Whole figs Cream cheese 

Make small incisions in as many figs as are desired and 
fill with cream cheese, moistened with a little sweet cream and 
beaten tiU soft. Serve with salad or with crackers and coffee 
at the end of a dinner. aebon, o. 

FRAPPBD CAMEMBEBT 

A Camembert cheese % teaspoonful paprika 

2 tablespoonf uls butter 3 or 4 dashes tabasco 

Thoroughly beat a well ripened Camembert cheese with 
the butter, paprika, tabasco, and Worcestershire Sauce. Beat 
until smootii, then chill thoroughly and serve in a dish sur- 
rounded by finely crushed ice. Accompany it with piping- 
hot toasted crackers. Tiny balls of this PrappSd Camembert 
can be rolled in paprika until they are bright red. Serve 

3 drops Worchestershire sauce 
four or five of these on leaves of lettuce or romaine with 
French dressing. nsw yobe, n. t. 

LUNCHEON BICE 

i eupf uls cold boiled rice H cupful grated cheese 

^t cupful crumbled com flakes V2 cupful tomato catchup 

1 tablespoonf ul oil 



BsdFES AND Household Discoveries 41 

Put rice in a battered baking-dish. Stir in with it enough 
catchup to moisten and color it, but keeping the mixture quite 
stiflf. Cover with a layer of the com flakes, sprinkle with oil, 
and on top place a layer of grated cheese. Bake in a mod- 
erate oven till the cheese is delicately browned, ashland, ky. 



OLD-FASHIONED RAREBIT 

% pound American cheese ^ pomid bacon 

Slice the bacon moderately thin, and fry the slices on one 
side, then turn them, and lay the cheese sliced thin on each 
piece of bacon. It should cover the bacon well. Sprinkle 
with paprika. Cover the frying-pan, and cook gently until 
the turned side of the bacon is done. The cheese wUl melt 
and be crisp at the edges. If desired this may be served 
on hot buttered toast, but it should be eaten at once. 

NEW HAVEN, CONN. 

POOR MAN^S CHEESE PUDDING 

5 tablespoonfuls brown rice 3 teaspoonfuls salt 

2 cupfuls grated cheese 3 cupf uls milk 

Add the uncooked rice and salt to the milk and pour into 
a buttered baking-dish. Bake until nearly tender in a slow 
oven, stirring occasionally. At the last stirring add the cheese 
and bake enough longer to brown it. angola, ind. 

RICE AND CHEESE 

3 cnpfuls boiled rice 3 teaspoonfuls butter 

3 egg-whites 1 H cupfuls grated American 

1 cupful light cream or rich milk cheese 

Cracker-crumbs 

Butter a pudding-dish and sprinkle vdth cracker-crumbs. 
Place the rice, which should be warm, in a bowl and beat till 
yery light. Add the egg-whites whipped till stiff, and beat 
these together. Spread in one-third of the rice, sprin&le 
thickly with one-third of the cheese, dot with one teaspoonful 
of butter, and sprinkle with cracker-crumbs. Repeat till there 



42 Becipeis and Household Discoveries 

are three layers; then pour in the cream and bake thirty 
minutes in a moderate oven. vngrjiWSTiEy, mass. 



EICB BAEEBIT 

5 tablespoonf Ills bntter % teaspoonf ul salt 

1 ciipf al milk ^ teaspoonf ul mustard 

1 pomid soft Ameriean cheese 3 cupfuls hot boiled rice 

1^ tablespoonfuls floor Paprika 

Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter in a saucepan, add the 
flour and gradually the milk. When smooth, turn in the 
cheese, which should be shaved fine or put through the food- 
chopper. Cook gently till it is melted, stirring often, and 
then season and keep hot. In the meantime the rice should 
be boiled dry and mixed with the rest of the butter. Press into 
sauce-dishes with small cups or wine-glasses inverted in each 
to make ring-molds. Turn out on individual plates and cover 
with the cheese-mixture. Hollow rings may be fashioned 
easily by the hand. middletown. conn. 



THICKENED MILK TOAST WITH NEUFCHATEL 

CHEESE 

1 pint milk 6 slices dry toast 

2 tablespoonfuls fat 6 tablespoonfuls Neufch&tel 
2 tablespoonfnls flonr cheese 

% teaspoonful salt 

Melt the fat and add the flour gradually until the mix- 
ture is smooth. Add the cold milk, a little at a time, stirring 
constantly until thickened. Season to taste. Spread the 
slices of dry toast with Neuf chatel cheese, allowing one table- 
spoonful to each slice. Dip the toast in the white sauce, and 
arrange in serving dish. Pour remaining sauce over all. 
Plain seasoned hot milk may be poured over the toast spread 
with the Neuf chatel cheese, if desired. bbooklyn, n. y. 



Cookies 



ANIMAL COOKIES 

1 cupful butter Flavoring 

% cupful sugar 2 tablespoonfuls sour eream 

Vs teaspoonful salt 1 egg 

Pastry flour 

Cream the batter, add sugar, beat well. Add egg, cream, 
salt, flavoring, and sufficient flour to roll out. Roll very thin 
and cut in fancy shapes. Bake in a moderate oven. These 
cookies may be sprinMed with sugar before baking or covered 
with a simple frosting afterward. 

BROWN SUGAR COOKIES 

2 cupfuls brown sugar 1 teaspoonful soda 
1 cupful softened margarin ^ cupful milk 

3 eggs 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

% t^poonful salt About 5 cupfuls pastry flour 

Cream together the margarin and sugar, add the eggs well 
beaten, the milk, the vanUla, and half the flour sifted with 
the salt and soda. Add more flour, enough to make a dough 
which may be rolled. Cut in any desired shapes and bake 
about ten minutes in a 400^ F, oven. MiLWAnEEE, wis. 

BUTTERMILK DOUGHNUTS I 

1 egg Vz cupful sugar 

y^ t^lespoonf ul melted butter ^ teaspoonful grated nutmeg ot 
3 cupfuls bread flour 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

% teaspoonful salt % teaspoonful soda 

1 cupful buttermilk 
48 



44 OooD Housekeeping's Book of 

Beat the egg very light and add to it the sagar, melted 
butter, grated nutmeg, or vanilla. Sift the flour with soda 
and salt, and add to the first mixture alternately with the but- 
termilk. Add more flour if needed, but handle as soft as pos- 
sible. Turn on to the molding-board and knead very lightly; 
roll to a quarter of an inch in thickness and cut in circles. 
Pry in deep hot fat. Drain the doughnuts on soft paper and 
when they are cool, sift powdered sugar over them. 

PHILADELPHIA, PA. 



BUTTERMILK DOUGHNUTS II 

1 cupful granulated sugar 1 teaspoonf ul soda 

1 egg 1 teaspoonf 111 salt 

% teaspoonf ul gprated nutm^ 1 teaspoonf ul cream of tartar 

1 cupful buttermilk 1 teaspoonf ul baking-powder 

About 3 cupf uls bread flour ^ teaspoonf ul ground ginger 

Put the first three ingpredients in mixing bowl, beat well; 
add buttermilk, leaving about one tablespoonful in cup to 
dissolve soda. Add the other dry ingredients to the flour, 
and beat the mixture smooth before all the flour is added. 
Use just enough flour to roll and handle easily. Fry in hot 
deep fat Atlantic, mass. 



GAEOLINA TEA CAKES 

1 cupful sugar 1 cupful currants floured with % 

2 egga cupful flour 

2 scant cupfuls pastry flour % cupful butter 

1 teaspoonf ul baking-powder i^ cupful milk 

y^ teaspoonful salt 

Dip hands in hot water, and cream butter and sugar tO' 
gether till grain of sugar is almost lost in butter. Add e^gs 
one by one, unbeaten ; then add flour, mixed and sifted with 
baking-powder and salt, alternately with milk. Add floured 
currants last. Mix well. Pour in greased gem-pans and 
bake in hot oven ten to fifteen minutes. Delicious hot. 

CEDABHUBST, L. L 



Begifes and Household Disoovebies 45 



CHINESE CHEWS 

1 oupful dates, chopped % cupful pastry flour 

1 cupful English walnuts, 1 teaspoonful baking-powder 

chopped 2 eggs 

1 cupful sugar ^ teaspoonful salt 

Mix all dry ingredients together, put in the dates and nuts, 
and stir in the eggs after beating them light. Bake in as 
thin a sheet as can be spread and when done cut in small 
squares and roll into balls. Then roll them in granulated 

sugar. NORTH BEND, OBE. 



CHOCOLATE ALMOND COOKIES 

3 cupfuls brown sugar % pound chopped blanched al^ 

4 eggB monds 

2 teaspoonfuls cinnamon 1 tablespoonful melted butter 

% tea8X)oonful ground cloves 2 teaspoonfuls baking-powder 
2 squares melted chocolate Entire-wheat flour 

Beat eggs well, add sugar and melted butter. Sift together 
one cupful of entire-wheat flour with cinnamon, cloves, and 
baking-powder. Add to the mixture. Then add the choco- 
late and the almonds and enough more flour to make a dough 
stiff enough to shape in the hands. Boll in flnger lengths 
or small balls. Place in greased pans not too close together 
with an almond on each cake. Bake in a quick oven. 

ANDOVER, 0. 



CHOCOLATE ANIMALS 

% pound sweet dipping choco- 1 tablespoonful olive- or salad* 
late oil 

Animal crackers 

Melt the dipping chocolate in the top of a double-boiler, 
and add while it is melting the olive- or salad-oil. Let the 
chocolate melt, stirring it frequently. Pour about half of it 
into a shallow dish and manipulate the chocolate with the 



46 Good Housekeeping's Book op 

fingers until it has become cool, about 80^ F., and has started 
to harden on the sides of the dish. Then dip animal crackers, 
such as can be purchased in any good grocery store, into the 
chocolate, covering each one entirely. Drop on paraMn paper 
to dry. These chocolate animals are delicious and more whole- 
some than candy. Try them for the children. 

FAIKHAVEN, MASS. 



CHOCOLATE CAEAMEL COOKIES 

VA cupf uls brown sugar % cupful entire-wheat flour 

4 squares unsweetened chocolate ^ teaspoonful salt 
2 eggs beaten ^ teaspoonful vanilla 

Melt the chocolate and add the other ingredients in the 
order given. Drop from a teaspoon and bake in a hot oven 
eight to ten minutes. bochester, n. y, 

CHOCOLATE COOKIES 

1 cupful light brown sugar 1% eupfuls entire-wheat flour 

% cupful melted shortening % cupful chopped raisins 

1 egg V2 cupful chopped nuts 

% cupful milk 3 squares chocolate melted 

% teaspoonful soda, sifted with % teaspoonful salt 
flour 

Stir all together in order given and drop on buttered tins a 
teaspoonful at a time and bake in a quick oven. MSBBiLii, wis. 

COCOA COOKIES 

1 egg 1 cupful seeded raisins 

Yz cupful corn-simp 4 tablespoonfuls cocoa 

1 cupful coconut 4 tablespoonfuls sifted rice flour 

1 teaspoonful vanilla 

Beat the egg until light; add the sirup, coconut, cocoa, 
and vanilla, then raisins which have been mixed with the 
flour. Drop from a teaspoon on greased tins. Bake in a 
moderate oven about twenty minutes. These cookies burn 
easily, so take good care in the baking. davenport, u* 






Becipes and Household Discoveries 47 



CORN FLAKE DATE CRACKERS 

1 pound dates, stoned 1 teaspoonf ul soda 

1 cupful granulated sugar 1 cupful butter or margarin 

Yz cupful cold water 3 cupfuls com flakes 

1 cupful brown sugar 3^ cupfuls pastry flour 

% cupful warm water 

Combine the stoned dates, granulated sugar, and cold water 
in a saucepan. Boil until the dates are soft, and allow to 
cool. Cream the butter and brown sugar together, then add 
the com flakes and flour and soda sifted together. Mix well, 
then add warm water enough to make a stiff dough. Divide 
the dough into equal parts, roll out thin, spread the date filling 
on one part, put the second layer on top, and cut into squares. 
Place the squares in greased tins and bake in a hot oven ten 
or fifteen minutes. cmcAao, ill. 

DATE DOUGHNUTS 

1 cupful sugar 1 teaspoonful baking-powder 

1 tablespoonful melted butter % teaspoonful nutmeg 

2 eggs % teaspoonful cinnamon 
% teaspoonful vanilla % teaspoonful salt 

Yz teaspoonful soda Pastry flour 

1 cupful sour milk Dates 

Stone and halve the dates. Cream butter and sugar to- 
gellier, add eggs well beaten, vanilla, sour milk with soda 
added to it, and two cupfuls pastry flour mixed and sifted 
with spices, salt, and baking-powder. Add enough more 
flour to make a soft dough. Roll one-quarter inch thick and 
cut with round cutters as for cookies. Place half a date on 
one side and lap over the other side; press edges together; 
fry in hot deep fat. Roll in powdered sugar. 

DES MOINES, U. 

EASY RAISED DOUGHNUTS 

1 cupful Tnillr % teaspoonful nutm^ 

% compressed yeast-cake 1 egg 

4 cupfuls bread flour 2 tablespoonf uls melted shorten- 

^ cupfid li^ht-brown sugar ing 

y^ teaspoonful cinnamon % teaspoonful salt 

J^ teaspoonful soda 



48 QooD Housekeeping's Book of 

Scald the milk, cool until luke wann; then soften the yeast 
cake in one-fourth cupful of it and add to the rest. Stir in 
one and one-half cupfuls of flour. Let raise until light, then 
add the sugar, egg well beaten, shortening, salt, soda, and 
the remainder of the flour sifted with the spices. Knead and 
let raise. When light, roll, cut in desired shapes, warm in a 
moderate oven a few minutes, and fry at once in hot deep 
fat. Boll in sagar. One cupful of entire-wheat flour can 
replace an equal quantity of the bread flour, hampton, conn. 

EGOLESS, SOUR MILK OR BUTTERMILK 

DOUGHNUTS 

1 enpfol sour milk or buttermilk Vs teaspoonf ul ginger 

% cupful sugar % teaspoonful nutm^ 

1 teaspoonful butter 1 teaspoonful baking-powder 

% teaspoonful salt % teaspoonful cinnamon 

^ teaspoonful soda About 3 cunf uls bread flour 

Cream together the butter and sugar. Mix and sift the 
salt, soda, baking-powder, and spices with two cupfuls of 
flour. Add alternately with the milk to the sugar mixture. 
Add more flour if needed to make a dough as soft as can 
be handled and rolled. Roll to a quarter-inch thickness. 
Cut with a doughnut-cutter and fry in hot deep fat. 

LAWRENCE^ MASS. 

GINGER NUTS 

3 cupfuls pastry flour 1 cupful molasses 

}i cupful sugar 1 tablespoonf ul allspice 

% cupful butter 2 tablespoonfuls ginger 

Mix together in order given; roll with the hands into small, 
flat nuts as large as a quarter, and lay on pans lined with 
brown paper. Bake in a very slow oven. wnjoox, pa, 

GINGER SNAPS 

1 cupful sugar V2 teaspoonful cloves 

% cupful shortening 1 cupful molasses 

^ cupful cold, strong tea 2 teaspoonfuls soda 

1 teaspoonful ginger Pastry flour to roll thin, 5 to 6 

% teaspoonful cinnamon cupfuls 



Begipes and Household Discoveeebs 49 

Cream together sugar and shortening; add spices, tea, and 
the molasses brought to a boil, the soda then being dissolved 
in it. Beat in flour to make a very stiff dough, cover and 
let stand for an hour, or even overnight, so that the flour 
may swell and less be used. Too much flour makes tou^h 
ginger-snaps. Boll thin, and bake about eight minutes m 
a moderate oven. holyoke, mass. 

HERMIT COOKIES 

3 ^gs 1 .teaspoonful soda 

1% cupfuls brown sugar 1% cupfuls pastry flour 

% cupful butter 1 cupful entire-wheat flour 

1 cupful raisins % teaspoonful cinnamon 

1 cupful English wabiut meats V^ teaspoonful nutmeg 

Cream the butter and sugar. Add the eggs well beaten; 
then the soda sifted in part of the flour. Add the raisins 
and nuts well dusted with the rest of the flour. Roll medium 
tiiin, and cut into any forms desired. Bake about ten min- 
utes in a quick oven. cx)ldwateb, laoH. 

HINCHEY FUDGE 

2 oimces bitter chocolate % cupful pastry flour 
V2 cupful melted butter Vi teaspoonful salt 

3 eggs % teaspoonful bakiag-powder 

1 cupful sugar 1 cupful broken pecan meats 

1 teaspoonful vanilla 

Combine the chocolate and butter in a saucepan and cook 
gently till blended. Beat the eggs light, gradually add the 
sugar and then the flour, which has been sifted with the salt 
and baking-powder ; combine the mixtures, add the nut-meats 
and vanilla, and bake in two square layer-cake pans or a small 
dripping-pan about twenty minutes in a moderate oven. Cut 
in squares to imitate fudge. Natchitoches, i:4A. 

KILICRANKERS 

2 cupfuls rolled oats 2 eggs 

y2 cupful shredded coconut 2 teaspoonfuls baking-powder 

1 cupful sugar ' 2 teaspoonfuls melted butter 

Few grains salt 



60 QooD HousEKEEPmo's Book of 

Beat together egg-yolks and sugar, add butter, salt, and 
coconut, then stir in the rolled oats and baking-powder, and 
the egg-whites beaten stiff. Drop cookies two inches apart 
from a teaspoon onto well-oiled pans. Bake in a moderate 
oven. For a more cooky-like texture add one tablespoonful 

of flour. MINNBAFOLIS, MINN. 

OATMEAL COOKIES I 

1 cupful sugar 1 teaspoonf ul cinnamon 
% cupful margarin % teaspoonf ul salt 

^ cupful other shortening 1% cupf uls chopped raisins 

2 eggs Yz cupful chopped nut meats 
V/z cupfuls pastry flour 1 teaspoonful soda 

2 cupfuls roUed oats 1 tablespoonful vinegar 

Cream together the margarin, shortening, and sugar. Add 
the eggs well beaten, the oats, the flour sifted with the cinna- 
mon and salt, the raisins and nuts, and lastly the soda mixed 
with the vinegar. Mix all together thoroughly, roll out to 
one-eighth inch in thickness, cut, and bake ten minutes in a 
400^ F. oven. This recipe makes about four dozen cookies. 

EAST OBANQE, N. J. 

OATMEAL COOKIES II 

1 cupful hot, cooked oatmeal % cupful halved raisins 

2 tablespoonf uLs shortening % cupful broken walnut meats 
1 teaspoonful salt % cupful molasses 

1 cupful sugar About 2 cupfuls pastry flour 

1 teaspoonful cinnamon % teaspooztful soda 

Mix in order given, and drop two inches apart on a well- 
oiled cooky-sheet Bake in a moderate oven. 

OMAHA, NEBS. 

OLD-FASHIONED NEW ENGLAND DOUGHNUTS 

1 cupful warm water . % cupful butter 

1 compressed yeast-cake 2 eggs 

% teaspoonful salt 1 cupful milk 

1 cupful light brown sugar About 7 cupfuls bread flour 

% teaspoonful nutmeg if desired 



Becipes AND Household Discoveries 51 

At noon soften the yeast in the water, add salt and a cupful 
and a half of flour to make a thin batter. At supper-time 
cream together the butter and sugar, stir in the beaten eggs, 
combine with the milk, and add to the sponge. At bedtime 
add enough flour so that it can be easily kneaded, about five 
and a half cupfuls, and set in a warm place overnight 
In the morning knead thoroughly, let raise again, cut down, 
divide the dough in thirds for more easy manipulation, and 
roll to one-half inch thickness. Shape with a doughnut- 
cutter. Lay the doughnuts on a idightly-floured board, let 
raise till double in bulk, fry in hot deep fat and roll in sifted, 
powdered sugar. This makes three dozen doughnuts. 

TOLEDO, IA« 

PLAIN DOUGHNUTS 

1 quart bread flour 6 teaspoonf uls baking-powd» 
IV^ teaspoonfuls salt 1% to IV^ cupfuls milk 

Sift together the flour, salt, and baking-powder. Stir in 
enough milk to make a soft biscuit-dough, turn onto a floured 
board, roll lightly, cut in strips, twist once, and fry in deep 
fat hot enough to brown a bit of bread in one minute. Serve 
hot with hot maple-sirup. 

EICH COOKIES 

2 eupfuls batter Rind and juice % lemon 

1 cupful sugar 1 teaspoonful bakiag-powdor 

1 eupful finely chopped almonds 5 to 6 cupfuls pastry flour 

2 egg-yolks 1 teaspoonful desired flavoring 

Cream together butter and sugar, stir in egg-yolks, lemon, 
flavoring, and almonds, and then stir in two cupfuls of flour 
mixed with the baking-powder. Work in enough more flour 
to roll, make into thin wafers, sprinkle with sugar, and bake 
in a moderate oven. fond du lag, vna 

SURE-TO-LIKB COOKIES 

1 eupful sugar 1 teaspoonful salt 

1 cupful shortening 2 teaspoonfuls cinnamon 

1 cupful molasses 2% cupfuls buckwheat flour 

1 cupful hot water 2^ cupfuls rye flour 

1% teaspoonfuls soda 1 cupful rolled oats 



52 Begifbb AMD Household Dxscovbriis 

Cream Bhortening and sugar together. Add molasses^ bot 
water, and the sifted dry ingredients. Mix well and allow 
to stand in a cool place overnight. Drop by spoonfuls on a 
greased pan and bake in a moderate oven. Clarified drippings 
or any of the hardened vegetable fats may be used lor the 
ahort^iing. This recipe makes at least fifty cookies. 

unoA, N. T. 



Desserts 



APPLE CRAGEEB PUDDINO i it C -^ c-fi 

f . . ^ ' 

/ 3 medium-sized apples 1 pint milk 

y' 6 large milk or soda crackers 2 eggs 

Cold water % cupful sugar 

V,^ teaspoonf ul butter 1 teaspoonful lemon extract 

Nutmeg 

Grumble the crackers into a pudding-dish ; pour over these 
enough cold water to soak them until soft. Pare the apples, 
cut laem in halves, remove core, and put them on the stove 
with a small quantity of water; stew ten minutes. Pour 
milk over soaked crackers, add eggs beaten, and stir in the 
apples with the sugar. Add flavoring and grate nutmeg over 
the top of the pudding. Place butter on top just as the pud- 
ding is ready to be put into the oven. Bake in a slow oven 
until firm and brown. Serve hot. augusta, gjl^ 



APPLE DUMPLINGS 

4 apples Butter 

2 eupfuls sugar Cinnamon 

Milk Rich biscuit-dough 

Make a rich biscuit-dough of two cupfuls of bread flour, 
four teaspoonfuls baking-powder, one teaspoonful salt, and 
four tablespoonfuls lard, and milk to make a dough as soft as 
can be handled comfortably (about three-quarters cupful will 
be needed) . RqII out thin like pie-crust and cut into six equal 
sections. Have ready the apples pared and cut in eighths; 
heap about six pieces of apple on each section of biscuit-dough, 
add a small piece of butter, cinnamon, and a cupful of sugar 
divided equally between the six. Gather the dough up around, 

63 



64 QooD Houseeeeiping's Book op 

pinching together at the top. Place in deep baking-pan; 
pour over them a pint of boiling water in which a cupful of 
sugar, a heaping teaspoonful of butter, and one-fourth tea- 
spoonful of cinnamon have been stirred. Bake about forty- 
five minutes in a hot oven, covering them at the last if they 
get too brown. To be eaten either hot or cold, and preferably 
with cream. alberta, can. 

APPLE GRAHAM CRACKER PUDDING 

10 Graham erackers V^ teaspoonful cimiamon 

4 medium-sized apples % teaspoonful nutmeg 

2 eupf nls nulk 

Crumble five crackers in the bottom of a greased baking- 
dish. Cover with the apples, cdiced fine. Sprinkle wiSi 
spices. Crumble the other crackers over the top and pour 
the milk over all. Bake until puffy, and the apples are done. 

BUFFAIiO, N. T. 

APPLE INDIAN PUDDING 

1 eupfnl eom-meal % teaspoonful salt 

1 cupful molasses 1 teaspoonful ginger 

1 quart milk 3 apples 

3 eupfuls boiling water V^ cupful cold water 

1 tablespoonf ul shortening 

ParQ and core the apples, then slice them thin. Mix the 
meal with the cold water; then add the boiling water, cook 
five minutes, add the molasses, shortening, salt, ginger, and 
three cupfiUs of the milk, stir in the apple, and pour into a 
buttered baking-dish. Bake very slowly four hours, adding 
the rest of the milk after the first hour, stirring slightly. 
If too thick, add more milk. Serve hot or cold with or with- 
out cream. Sweet apples are preferable. BRrooEPOBT, conn. 

APPLE SOUFFLE 

y^ cupful strained and sweetened 3 eggs 

apple sauce Juice % lemon 

1 tablespoonful margarin 3 tablespoonfuls sugar 



Becipes and Household Discoveries SS 

Add the margarin to the apple sauce ; then add the yolks of 
the eggs beaten until thick and lemon-colored, then the sugar 
and the lemon juice. Lastly, fold in the whites of the eggs 
beaten stiflE and dry. Fill pastry-cups with the mixture and 
bake in a moderate oven till dry and firm. Serve at once. 
Any other fruit may be used in place of the apple sauce. 



BLUEBERRY LOAF 

1 quart blueberries Grated rind V^ lemon 

A 1-pound loaf stale bread 1 inch stick cinnamon 

About 1 cupful sugar Butter 

Slice bread and butter. In the ineantime stew the blue- 
berries with the lemon and cinnamon, and then add the sugar. 
Break the bread in small pieces and put in a well-greased 
granite bread-tin or earthen bowl. Pour over the boiling 
sauce, which should soak thoroughly into the bread; let chill, 
turn out, cut in slices, and serve with cream. This is also 
good made without butter. holyokb, mass. 



BUTTER-SCOTCH PUDDING 

1 cupful brown sugar 1 inch-thick slice stale bread 

2 tablespoonf uls butter 2 ^gs 

2 cupf uls hot milk % teasx>oonf ul salt 

2 tablespoonf uls powdered sugar Juice % lemon 

1 scant teaspoonful vanilla 

Melt the brown sugar and the butter over the fire and cook 
till a dark brown, but not burned. Then pour over the mix- 
ture the hot milk and simmer for ten minutes. Meantime 
soak the bread in cold water till very soft, press all the water 
from it, and crumble into tiny bits. Pour the milk, sugar, 
and butter mixture over the bread and beat in the yolks of 
ibe eggs, the salt and vanilla. Pour into a buttered baking- 
dish and bake in a pan of water for forty-five minutes. Beat 
llie whites of the egg stiff and then add the powdered sugar 
and the lemon juice; beat again. Spread over the pudding 
and brown slightly in a cool oven. Serve warm or cold. 

PHHiADSLPHIA. PA. 



66 Good HousEEEEPmo's Book of 



CHOCOLATE PUDDING 

1 pint milk 2 tablespoonf uls maple-sinip 

1 square unsweetened chocolate 1 tart apple 

1 cupful fine stale bread-crmnbs 2 eggs 

^ cupful sugar 1 teaspoonf ul vanilla 

Melt chocolate in milk in a double-boiler; pour this over 
the bread-crumbs; add sugar, sirup, apple which has been 
pared, cored, and grated, and beaten egg-yolks. Mix well, 
then fold in the egg-whites beaten stiff and dry, and the 
vanilla. Pour into a buttered pudding dish and bake in a 
slow oven. This may be served with whipped cream or any 
favorite sauce. hUjO, hawah. 



COCONUT PUDDING 

2 tablespoonfnls yellow eom* 2 tablespoonfuls granulated 

meal tapioca 

2 tablespoonfuls coconut 2 tablefipoonfnls honey 

1 quart milk 

Mix all ingredients together, put into an oiled baking-dish, 
and bake in a slow oven four hours, stirring occasionally 
during the first half of the baking. Albany, n. t. 



COFFEE CEEAM 

1 cupful coffee infusion 4 small sponge cup-cakes 

% pint whipped sweetened Whole ahnonds and maraschino 
cream cherries 

1 pint boiled custard 

Slice the cakes, and place in a glass dish. Pour over them 
the coffee sweetened to taste, let stand fifteen minutes, pour 
over the custard, which should be flavored with vanilla, and 
let stand until serving time. Garnish with the whipped 
eream, almonds, and cherries. Stale, plain, sponge or angel 
cake may be used in this way. vancouveb, b. a 



BEGiPBa AND Household Disgovebibs 67 



COFFEE RICE PUDDING 

^ cupful rice 1% cupfuls milk 

3 tablespoonfuls coffee 1 egg 

1 teaspoonful flour % cupful sugar 

Cook rice in boiling salted water until tender. Use only 
enough water so that the rice will absorb it all in cooking. 
Scald milk with coflfee in a double boiler while rice is cooking. 
Strain coffee from milk. Add rice to milk and return to 
double boiler. Beat egg, add the sugar mixed with the flour 
and pour slowly into the rice mixture. Cook until the con- 
sistency of ctstard. Serve very cold, with or without cream. 

WASHINGTON, PA. 



CEEAM RICE 

1 quart milk % teaspoonful salt 

2 tablespoonfuls rice 4 tablespoonfuls sugar 

1 tablespoonf ul margarin 

Combine the milk, rice, salt, sugar and margarin. Put all 
the ingredients into a buttered pudding>dish ; mix and cook 
in a slow oven for two or three hours. Stir often, mixing into 
the pudding the delicious golden *'skin" that forms. Do 
not stir during the last half hour. A lack of flavoring may 
be noticed in this recipe, but this is not accidental. The rich, 
delicate flavor resulting from the long cooking of the simple 
ingredients is novel and most delicious. The same pudding 
may be cooked in a double-boiler, stirring often the first part 
of the time. Cook until very soft and of the consistency and 
color of thick cream ; cool and pour into a glass dish. Serve 
mth thin bits of any bright jelly over the top, if desired. 

OONGOBD, MASS. 



DATE CRUMBLES 

2 6ggs, well beatoi 1 tablespoonf ul flour 

1 cupful sugar 1 cupful chopped walnuts 

2 teaspoonf uls bakiug-powder 1 cupful dat^ out small 



58 Good Housekeeping's Book of 

Mix all together and spread on two greased pie tins. Bake 
in a slow oven three-quarters of an hour. Crumble and serve 
in tall glasses topped with whipped cream, or mix with 
whipped cream and serve. ban dxego, caij. 



DATE PUDDING 

1 box dates 1 capful milk 

Stone a box of dates and lay, cut side down, in a small 
pudding-dish. Cover with the milk and let stand at least 
one hour. Then bake in a slow oven (it is wise to set the 
pudding in a pan of hot water as for custard), for one-half 
to three-quarters of an hour. This is good hot or cold. 

HIBAM, o. 

DATE SPONGE 

1 eupfal stoned and chopped 1% eupfub milk 

dates 1 tablespoonful bntter 

}i cupful fLoxa 3 eggs 

H cupful sugar 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

Scald the milk; mix together flour and sugar and add the 
milk gradually, stirring until smooth and thick. Cook over 
hot water for ten minutes, beat in the butter, and cool. Add 
the egg-yolks well beaten, the dates, and flavoring, and fold 
in the whites whipped stiff. Turn into a buttered pudding- 
dish, set in a pan of hot water, and bake for half an hour. 
Serve cold with hot lemon sauce. concord, n. h, 

DELICIOUS EICB PUDDING 

% cupful rice 2 tablespoonf uls grauulated gel- 

1 cupful water atin 

% teaspoonful salt % cupful sugar 

1 piut hot milk 1 pint heavy cream 

Cook the rice in the water till swollen, add the hot milk 
and salt, and cook for an hour in a double boiler or fireless 
cooker. Then add the sugar and the gelatin, which should be 
softened in water to cover, and set aside to cooL Fold in the 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 59 

cream, which should be beaten stiff, and pour into a mold to 
become firm. This can be flavored or not as desired, but can 
be modified in several different ways: 1. Serve plain with a 
sauce made of a cupful of maple-sirup and a half -cupful of 
chopped nuts. 2. Before putting in mold add a cupful of 
shredded, cooked pineapple or halved maraschino cherries, 
and serve with plain, sweetened, whipped cream. 3. Add to 
the plain pudding a cupful of freshly grated coconut, or a 
half -cupful of preserved ginger, and serve with cream. The 
pudding should be made several hours before it is served or 
it will not mold well. Minneapolis, minn. 

EGGLESS INDIAN PUDDING 

1 cupful eom-meal 3^ teaspoonf ul ginger 

% cupful molasses Yz teaspoonful cinnamon 

1 quart hot milk % teaspoonful salt 

Put all the ingredients but milk in a saucepan, set on the 
stove and add one pint of scalding hot milk. Stir until thor- 
oughly scalded and bubbling, then add the other pint of Tnilk ; 
stir well, pour into a buttered dish, and bake two or more 
hours in a moderate oven. Stir once in a while at first. Serve 
with cream or a little butter. Two juicy apples peeled and 
chopped, added the last hour, make a very nice addition for 
variety. concord, mass. 

EGYPTIAN CARAMEL CUSTAED 

% cupful sugar, caramelized Few grains salt 

3 ^gs Few grains nutmeg 

2 cupfuls scalded milk % teaspoonful vanilla 

% cupful sugar 

Caramelize (melt) the half -cupful of sugar over a moderate 
heat and pour at once into a tin or aluminum mold, tipping 
it until the sirup is hardened on the bottom and half-way 
up the sides. Then beat the eggs, add the sugar, salt, and 
flavorings, and pour the scalded milk into it. Turn into the 
lined mold, set this into a pan of hot water, and bake in a 
Blow oven. Chill and unmold. The sirup will have colored 
the lower part of the custard, the remainder having melted 
to form a sauce. lansinq, mcB. 



60 Good HousEssEPmo's Book of 



EVERY-DAT LEMON WCE PUDDINft 

% cupful rice 2 eggs 

1 cupful hot water % lemon 

% teaspoonf ul salt 1 tablespoonful powdered sugar 

2 cupf uls milk % cupful granulated sugar 

Add salt to the water and cook rice in it till the water is 
absorbed. Add the milk and cook in a double-boiler till 
the rice is done. Beat together the egg-yolks, sugar, and 
grated lemon rind, stir into the rice and cook two minutes. 
Pour into a buttered fire-proof dish, pile on a meringue made 
of the egg-whites, powdered sugar, and lemon juice, and cook 
gently for ten minutes in a slow oven. montglaib, n. j. 



FRESH STRAWBERRY BAVARIAN CREAM 

2 tablespoonf uls granulated gel- Vz cupful sugar 

atin 1 pint heavy cream 

y^ cupful water % box stemmed strawberries 

Soak gelatin ten minutes in water to cover; put sugar in 
saucepan with the half -cupful of water, add berries, and heat 
to boiling point, but do not mash; turn in the gelatin and 
when consistent like an egg-white add the cream, whipped stiff, 
folding it in carefuUy. Let stand to become' stiff and serve 
with additional strawberries, stewed. new yobk, n. y. 



GINGERBREAD GEMS WITH APPLES 

2 tablespoonf uls brown sugar 1 cupful whole wheat flour 

1 egg % cupful molasses 
% teaspoonful baking-soda % teaspoonful ginger 
y^ cupful shortening % teaspoonful cinnamon 

2 apples ^ teaspoonful mace 
2 tablespoonfuls mflk % teaspoonful salt 

1 cupful bread flour ^ cupful raisins or currants 

Mix and sift together all the dry ingredients, add the mo- 
lasses and shortening melted. Then add the egg well beaten 
and the milk. Into greased muffin pans place apples cut 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 61 

into eighths. Pour the mixture over the apple and bake in 
a moderate oven about twenty-five minutes. This recipe will 
make six large gems and makes a delicious dessert served hot 
with cream. Philadelphia, pa. 

GOLDEN PUDDING 

4 cupfuls milk % cupful molasses 

4 tablespoonf uls yellow eorm- 1 teaspoonful salt 

meal 1 teaspoonful margarin 

1 cupful sifted squash 1 teaspoonful mixed spices 

% cupful seedless raisins 

Scald two cupfuls of the milk and thicken it with the corn- 
meal. Add the remaining milk, squash, molasses, salt, mar- 
garin, spices and raisins. Pour into a buttered baking dish 
and bake three hours in a slow oven or a fireless cooker with 
two radiators heated to 350^ F. beddinq, conn. 

GOOSEBERRY CREAM 

1 pint gooseberries 3 egg-yolks 

1 cupful granulated sugar H cupful sugar 

^ cupful water % teaspoonful orange extract 

1 pint milk Whipped cream 

Stew the gooseberries and the cupful of sugar and water 
together till mushy, then sift. Make a boiled-custard of the 
mUk, egg-yolks, remaining sugar, and flavoring, stir in the 
sifted gooseberries, chill, and serve very cold in a deep glass 
dish with the whipped cream piled on top. new york, n. y. 



INDIAN PUDDING 

^ cupful granulated com- % teaspoonful cinnamon 

meal 1 cupful molasses 

1 teaspoonful salt 1 quart scalded milk 

% teaspoonful ginger 1 quart cold milk 

2 teaspoonfuls butter 

Butter a large baking-dish well. Sift into it the first four 
ingredients. Pour the scalded milk on the ingredients in 
the dish slowly, stirring constantly. Then pour into this 



62 Good Housekeeping's Book op 

mixture the molaafies and stir well. Then pour in the cold 
milk and stip again. Break the butter into small pieces and 
dot over the top. 'Bmkm in a dow oven five or six hours^ 
Btirring frequeoittjr during the first hour of baking. 

NORTH BASTON, MASS. 

JAM DUMPLINGS 

2 enpfnls pastry flonr About % cupful milk 

8 teaispoonfuls baking-powder 2 cupfub jam 

1 teaspoonful salt 3 cupfuls water 

Sift together flour, baking-powder and salt. Add milk to 
make a rather stiff dough, mixing it with a knife. In the mean- 
time, make a sirup of the jam — ^using raspberry, strawberry, 
or any preferred flavor — and the water. When the sirup 
has come to a boil, drop the dough mixture by tablespoonfuls 
on top of the sirup. Cover immediately and steam the dump- 
lings for twelve minutes. Remove them at once and arrange 
in a deep serving-dish. Pour the remainder of the sirup 
around them and serve hot. new yobk, n. y. 

LEMON MBEINGUE PUDDING 

1 cupful sugar 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

1 quart mUk 3% milk crackers 

(3 eggs Grated rind 1 lemon 

Beat eggs and sugar together till light, add the crackers 
rolled fine and the other ingredients. Pour into a baking- 
dish, and cook about thirty minutes, taking care that it does 
not actually boil or it will be watery. Spread the top with 
lemon butter and finish with a meringue made of two egg- 
whites, six tablespoonfuls of granulated sugar, and a fourth- 
teaspoonful of lemon extract. Georgetown, del. 

MACAKOON CUSTABD 

1 pint milk 1 cupful stale almond macaroons 

4 eggs 2 tablespoonfuls peach jam or 

%. cupful sugar jelly 

Ys teaspoonful salt 



Becipes and Household Discoveries 63 

Scald the milk in a double-boiler. Beat the yolks of the 
e^s slightly with the sugar and salt. Over the egg yolks 
pour gradually the hot milk. Return to the double-boiler and 
cook until thickened, stirring constantly. Remove and stir 
in the macaroons, crumbled, and the jelly or jam. Beat hard 
and cool thoroughly on ice. Serve in glasses topped with 
whipped cream. Philadelphia, pa. 



MAPLE-SIEUP DUMPLINGS 

1 cupful water 4 teaspoonfuls baking-powder 

1 pint maple-sirup % teaspoonf ul salt 

1 pint bread flour About 1 cupful milk 

Put water and sirup on to boil. Make dumplings by sifting 
together the flour, baking-powder, and salt. Add milk to 
make a dough soft enough to drop. Drop by teaspoonfuls 
into the boiling sirup. Cover and boil fifteen minutes. When 
done the sirup should be poured over the dumplings as a 

sauce. ELLENSBUBO, WASH. 



MABSHMALLOW CARAMEL PUDDING 

1 thick slice bread 2 eggs 

Vz cupful sugar 1 tablespoonful butter 

1 pint scalded milk 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

Halved marshmallows 

The bread should be at least twenty-four hours old and 
should be cut three and a half inches long, two and a half 
inches wide, and an inch thick. Soak it in water to cover 
till very soft. In the meantime melt two tablespoonfuls of 
the sugar until caramelized, add the milk and butter, and cook 
gently till the caramel dissolves. Press the water from the 
bread and squeeze as dry as possible, add it to the milk and 
beat well. Stir in the eggs, well beaten ; the rest of the sugar ; 
and the vanilla. Pour into a buttered baking-dish and bake 
in a very slow oven for three-quarters of an hour. When 
done cover the top with halved marshmallows and brown 
slightly under a quick heat. Serve hot with cream or coffee- 
flavored hard sauce, or cold with cream. Philadelphia, pa. 



64 Good Housekeeping's Book of 



ORANGE SOUFFLE BREAD PUDDING 

1 goaerons cupful stale bread 2 ^g-yolks 

broken into bits Juice 2 oranges 

1% cupfuls milk Orated rind 1 orange 

% cupful sugar Vs teaspoonf ul salt 

Heat one cupful of milk and soak the bread in it until all 
is absorbed. Beat lightly with a fork, add the orange juice 
and rind, the sugar, salt, and egg-yolks beaten until thick. 
Have the remaining half -cupful of milk boiling hot, stir into 
the mixture, and fold in the egg-whites beaten stiff. Pour 
into well-buttered individual cups or ramekins. Stand in a 
pan of hot water and bake in a moderate oven until firm. 
Serve at once, as the mixture falls when cold. 

WEST HAVEN, CONN. 



PERSIAN RICE 

1 cupful rice 2 tablespoonfuls minced, pre- 

1% cupfuls small seedless served ginger 

raisins % cupful broken pecan or wal- 

^ cupful butter nut meats 

Wash rice, and boil in salted water till nearly done. Cook 
the raisins, nuts, and ginger in the butter until the raisins 
puff up. Boil rice till water is evaporated, add the raisin 
mixture, stir thoroughly, pour into a fire-proof dish, cover, 
and let steam in the oven one-half hour. Serve with fried 
chicken and gravy, if desired. berkblsy, oal. 



PINEAPPLE RICE 

1 quart milk % cupful marshmallow cream 

1 cupful rice 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

% teaspoonful salt % cupful almonds or walnuts, 

2 cupfuls diced canned pine- chopped fine 
apple Whipped cream 

Scald the milk in a double-boiler. Add the rice which has 
been carefully washed, and cook xmtil the kernels are soft. 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 65 

Add the salt and the marshmallow cream. Remove from the 
fire, cool, and add the vanilla, nuts chopped fine and one cup- 
ful of the diced pineapple. Pour into small, wet molds and 
chill until firm. Place the molds of rice on individual plates 
and serve with the remaining cupful of the diced pineapple 
and a small amount of whipped cream on top. 

SEATTLE, WASH. 



PINEAPPLE TAPIOCA 

1 cupful pearl tapioca Juice 1 lemon 

% cupful cold water 1% cupfuls sugar 

1 can pineapple 3 egg-whites 

Soak the tapioca overnight in plenty of water. Drain and 
add cold water, the juice from the can of pineapple and 
from the lemon. Then cook in a douhle boiler till clear. 
Add the sugar to this, then the pineapple, chopped fine, and 
lastly, pour over the egg-whites, beaten stiff. Chill and serve 
with cream or custard. This can be made from fresh pine- 
apple, if stewed and not too sweet. It will serve twelve people 
and will keep two or three days. davenport, ia. 

RICE CHARLOTTE RUSSE 

y^ cupful rice 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

1 cupful milk 2 egg-yolks 

% teaspoonful salt 1 tablespoonful granulated gel- 

% cupful sugar atin 

1 plat cream 1 tablespoonful cold water 

y^ cupful hot water or milk 

Scald the milk in a double boiler, add the rice and salt, and 
cook until the rice is soft. Remove from the fire; when cool 
add the vanilla, sugar, egg-yolks well beaten, and the gelatin 
which has been previously soaked in the cold water and dis- 
solved in the hot water or milk. Mix all of this together 
very thoroughly, and then add the cream whipped. Put in 
a wet mold and let stand on ice at least three hours before 
serving. Serve with a sauce made by cooking one cupful of 
preserved or canned strawberries with one-half cupful water 
until the consistency of sirup. Add one tablespoonful lemon 



66 Good Housekeeping's Book ov 

juice, strain, and ponr over tlie rnsse when serving. This 
may also be served with crushed fresh strawberries. 

8EWIGKLK7y PA. 

BICE MACAROON PUDDINO 

% enpful rice 1 egg 

% cupful sugar 1 dozen almond macaroons 

y^ teaspoonf ul salt 3 tablespoonf uls margarin 

1 quart milk 1 teaspoonf ul vanilla , 

Cook the rice in water until tender. Drain and pour cold 
water through it ; then put in the oven to dry. Put the milk 
on in a double boiler, heat, add salt, sugar, and rice, and 
cook until somewhat thickened. Then put in a greased bak- 
ing-dish with the margarin and vanilla. Bake one-half hour, 
then put the macaroons on top, beat the egg, and pour over 
all. Bake one hour longer, slowly. If the macaroons are 
very small, more than one dozen may be required. Use enough 
to cover the top of the pudding^ish. pasadska, gau 

BICE SURPRISE 

1 cupful hot cooked rice % teaspoonf ul salt 

1 tablespoonful gelatin 1 teaspoonf ul vanilla 

2 tablespoonf uls sugar 1 cupful cream whipped 

Soak the gelatin in three tablespoonfuls of water for five 
minutes, then mix with the rice. Add the sugar, salt, and 
vanilla, and beat well. Set aside until it begins to congeal. 
Beat the cream stiff and fold it in. Pour into a mold and let 
it harden. When serving turn it on a platter, and pour 
orange marmalade sauce over it. For a very sweet dessert 
add two extra tablespoonfuls of sugar. dbnveb, coix>. 

ROLLED APPLE DUMPLINGS 

1% cupfuls bread flour 1 cupful brown sugar 

2 teaspoonfuls baking-powder % teaspoonful cinnamqn 

% teaspoonful salt % teaspoonful nutmeg 

2 cupfuls chopped apple 2 tablespoonfuls lard 

% cupful cold water 2 tablespoonfuls butter 



Becipes and Household Discoveries 67 

Mix and sift flour, baking-powder, and salt. Work into 
this the lard and butter, using the tips of the fingers. Add 
water, then turn out on a floured board, handling as little 
as possible. Boll out about one-half inch thick, sprinkle 
apples, brown sugar, and spices on top. Boll up like a jelly 
roU. Cut off in pieces about two inches wide and stand on 
end in a pudding-dish. Pour part of the following sauce 
over them: 

1 cupful granulated sugar 1 cupful water 

2 tablespoonf uls flour 1 teaspoonful vaQilla 
^ teaspoonful salt 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

Mix sugar and flour, add water; cook till blended. Add 
butter and salt. When butter is melted, remove from flre 
and add vanilla. Bake in hot oven about twenty minutes. 
This recipe makes nine dumplings. Add to the sauce any 
chopped apple not possible to roll in the dumpling. Beserve 
the rest of the sauce to pour around the dumplings when 
they are taken from the oven. nobthfield, minn. 



BUSSIAN PUDDING 

2 tablespoonfuls granulated gel- 4 eggs 

atin 1 cupful sugar 

1 quart milk 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

1 dozen dry macaroons 

Put gelatin and milk together in a double-boiler and let 
stand over a slow heat until the gelatin is dissolved. Beat 
the egg-yolks and sugar together, combine with the milk, and 
let cook until a coating is formed on the spoon. Stir this 
mixture into the egg-whites beaten stiff and add the vanilla. 
Line a mold with the macaroons broken in bits and when the 
pudding mixture is slightly cooled pour it into the mold. 
Chill for a few hours until stiipf. Unmold and serve with 
whipped cream. atghison, kans. 

SHBEDDBD DATES 

Dates Candied ginger 

liilk Whipped cream 



68 Good Housekebpino's Book of 

Fill individual glass dishes with dates that have been stoned 
and shredded, mixing in a few bits of candied ginger. Pour 
into the dishes enough sweet milk almost to cover the dates, 
and set in the ice-chest to chill for an hour or two. Before 
serving, put a little freshly whipped cream on top of each 
dish. This is an excellent nursery dessert, bbaufobt, s. g. 

A SIMPLE CHRISTMAS PUDDING 

4 

1 cupful grated raw potatoes 1 teaspoonful soda 

1 cupful grated raw carrots 1 tablespoonful water 

1 cupful chopped suet 1 teaspoonful salt 

1 cupful brown sugar 1 teaspoonful cinnamon 

1 pound chopped raisins 1 teaspoonful nutmeg 
1^ cupfuls pastry flour 1 teaspoonful allspice 

Mix thoroughly in order given, put in a well-oiled pudding- 
mold, cover, and steam five hours. Serve hot with hard fruit 
sauce. DETBorr, high. 

SPANISH COFFEE CREAM 

2 tablespoonf uls granulated gel- ^ teaspoonful salt 
atin 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

3 cupfuls coffee infusion 1 cupful cream or evaporated 
3 eggs milk 

% cupful sugar 

Heat coffee to boiling point. Pour it over sugar, egg-yolks, 
and salt well beaten together ; boil about five minutes, stirring 
constantly. Add gelatin softened in cream or milk and let 
boil up once. Fold in stiflBy beaten whites of eggs. Pour into 
mold. Serve cold with cream. Baltimore, md. 

STRAWBERRY RICE 

2 cupfuls crushed strawberries % teaspoonful salt 
% cupful rice 1 cupful powdered sugar 

Juice ^ lemon 4 tablespoonfuls butter 

1 egg-white, beaten stiff 

Boil the rice, after washing thoroughly, seasoned with the 
salt and lemon, in two quarts of water. Drain in a colander, 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 69 

and set in the oven a few minutes to dry out. In the mean- 
time cream together the sugar and butter until fluffy, beat 
in the strawberries, and then add the egg-white. Whip hard, 
and serve on the hot rice. new yobk, n. y. 

SURPRISE PUDDING 

1 pint cream 2 tablespoonfuls granulated gel- 

% cupful cooked rice atin 

1 cupful chopped walnuts or % cupful chopped figs 

hickory nuts V^ cupful chopped preserved 

1 teaspoonful vanilla candied ginger 

Whip the cream and add to it the rice, gelatin which has 
been soaked in one-fourth cupful of water for five minutes, 
and the vanilla. Fold in carefully and then add the nuts, 
figs, and ginger. Pour into a cold, wet mold, chill, and serve 
very cold. corning, n. t. 

SWEET APPLE SLUMP 

6 sweet apples 2 cupf uls bread flour 

2 tart apples 2 tablespoonfuls shortenmg 

3 cupfuls water 6 teaspoonfuls baking-powder 
y^ cupful molasses 1 teaspoonful salt 

y^ cupful raisins About % cupful milk 

1 tablespoonful molasses 

Pare, core, and quarter the apples. Boil fifteen minutes 
with the water. Add the molasses and raisins and lay over 
them a thick round of biscuit dough gashed in the center. 
To make the biscuit dough sift the fiour, baking-powder, and 
salt together, cut in the shortening until well blended and 
mix to a soft dough, adding the milk gradually and mixing 
with a knife. Toss on a well floured boar^ and pat to desired 
shape. Brush this over with the one tablespoonful of 
molasses, cover tightly, and steam for forty-five minutes. Re- 
move the cover and set in a hot oven for fifteen minutes to 
brown. bedding, oonn. 

TAFFY PUDDING 

1 enpfol whole pearl tapioca 2 cupfuls light brown sugar 

1 teaspoonful vanilla 



70 Good Housekeeping's Book of 

Soak tapioca overnight well covered with water. In the 
morning drain, and add sugar and vanilla. Cook in oven, 
using double cooker; keep covered. Cook for three to four 
hours until tapioca is clear and pudding is like taflEy. Serve 
cold with whipped cream. sprinopield, o. 



THANKSGIVING GELATIN PUDDING 

1 cupful dried figs 1% cupfuls chopped dates 

4 tablespoonfuls granulated gel- 1^^ cupfuls chopped seedless 

atin raisins 

1 cupful cold water 1% cupfuls chopped walnuts 

1 cupful com sirup % teaspoonf ul groulid mixed 

3 cupfuls hot coffee infusion spices 

^ cupful lemon juice 

Wipe the dried figs and cut into small pieces, add 
cold water to cover and bring slowly to the boiling point, and 
cook slowly for one-half hour. Then strain. There should 
be one cupful of juice. Soak the gelatin in the cold water 
for twenty minutes. Heat the corn-sirup to the boiling point 
with the ground mixed spices. Add this to the gelatin to- 
gether with the boiled coffee and the fig juice. Stir thoroughly 
and add the lemon juice and the cooked figs. Wet a mold in 
cold water and pour in a layer of the jelly one inch deep. 
Allow this to set and then add a layer of the chopped dates, 
raisins and walnuts, using about one-half cupful of each. Pour 
a layer of jelly over this and allow it to stand until firm. 
Repeat this until the mold is filled. When set, serve with 
custard sauce made in the following manner : 

1 egg 1 tablespoonf ul corn-starch 

% cupful com sirup 2 cupfuls milk 

y^ teaspoonful vanilla 

Beat the egg slightly and add the corn-sirup and the corn- 
starch. Heat the milk in a double boiler and add the first 
mixture gradually. Allow to cook until all starchy flavor 
IS removed. Flavor with the vanilla when cold. For the 
mixed spices in the pudding use cinnamon, nutmeg, mace, 
clove and ginger. new yobk, n. y. 






BiKHPES AND Household Discoveries 71 



UXBEIDGB APPLE TAPIOCA 

% cupful pearl tapioca V^ cupful water 

Vz teaspoonful salt 6 tablespoonfuls sugar or 

6 apples 6 tablespoonfuls apple jelly 

Soak the tapioca in cold water to cover for one hour. Add 
the salt. Pare and core the apples and set closely in a but- 
tered pudding-dish. Fill the holes with the sugar or apple 
jelly, allowing one tablespoonful to each apple. Pour the 
tapioca around the apples, distributing it evenly, and add the 
water. Bake in a hot oven until the apples are soft and 
the tapioca is clear; cover until nearly done. Peaches, un- 
cooked or canned, may be used for the apples, and sago for 
the tapioca. concord, mass. 



WHIPPED-CREAM MERINGUES 

4 egg-whites 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

1% cupfuls powdered sugar Few grains salt 

% cupful any nut meats, ground Sweetened and flavored whipped* 

fine cream 

Beat e^-whites very stiff and gradually add the sugar, 
whipping constantly. Sprinkle in the salt, and, lastly, turn 
in the ground nuts. Cover a baking-sheet with buttered 
paper and shape the mixture with a spoon so that the 
meringues will be as large as goose eggs. Bake in a very 
slow oven for at least three-quarters of an hour, until they 
are light brown and nearly dry. Remove from the paper, 
scoop out the soft inside, and put the two halves together 
with the whipped cream. This amount will serve twelve. 

NEW CANAAN, CONN. 



Eggs 



ASPARAGUS OMELET, ITALIAN 

1 cupful cooked asparagus-tips 1 tablespoonful water 
4 ^gs Few grains pepper 

% teaspoonful salt 2 tablespoonfuls grated cheese 

1 tablespoonful butter 

Beat the eggs slightly; add the salt, pepper, cheese, and 
asparagus. Put butter in hot omelet pan ; when melted, turn 
in the mixture. As it slowly cooks, prick and pick up with a 
fork until the whole is of creamy consistency. Brown quickly 
underneath ; fold and turn on a hot platter, new york, n. y. 

BACON AND EGGS, NEW STYLE 

8 slices bacon, diced % cupful milk 

6 small slices diy bread, diced Ys teaspoonful pepper 

4 eggs A little salt 

Fry the bacon until brown; add the bread, and toss with 
the Imcon and fat until well seasoned and slightly browned, 
then add the eggs beaten with the seasoning and milk, and 
scramble as usual. This is a very good way to use up dry 
bread. new york, n. y. 

BACON AND POTATO OMELET 

1 cupful cold potatoes, chopped 4 eggs 

fine f^ teaspoonful salt 

% cupful bacon, diced Ys teaspoonful pepper 

Brown potatoes and bacon together in a frying-pan. Sep- 
arate eggs, beat yolks till creamy and whites till lights add 

72 



Becifes and Household Disgovebies 73 

seasonings, combine, stir into the potato mixture, and cook 
gently like any omelet. Washington, d. o. 

BAKED CRACKER OMELET 

4 eggs 3 tablespoonfuls cracker-crombs 

% cupful milk % teaspoonf ul salt 

1 tablespoonful melted butter % teaspoonful pepper 

Separate eggs; beat whites stiff and yolks till lemon-colored. 
Add the milk and melted butter to the yolks, fold in the whites 
together with the seasonings and the cracker-crumbs, which 
should not be too fine. Pour into a hot buttered fire-proof 
dish and bake about fifteen minutes in a moderate oven. 

OMAHA, nebb. 

BROWN-BREAD OMELET 

2 slices brown bread 8 ^gs 

2 tablespoonfuls flour 2 teaspoonfuls salt 

S cupf uls milk % teaspoonf ul pepper 

2 tablespoonfuls butter 

Cut the bread in small pieces and fry in butter. Rub the 
flour smooth in a little of the milk. Add the egg-yolks beaten, 
the remainder of the milk, the fried bread, and lastly the 
^g-whites beaten stiff, together with the seasonings. Pour 
into the smoking-hot pan in which the bread has been fried 
and bake in a hot oven until set. It will take from twenty 
minutes to hsJf an hour. olympia, wash. 

CABBAGE OMELET 

2 cupfuLs chopped cold boiled 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

cabbage V^ cupful cream 

2 weU-beaten ^gs Salt and pepper to taste 

Heat the cabbage in one tablespoonful of butter and the 
cream V add seasonings and the eggs well beaten. Pour into 
a warm omelet-pan containing the other tablespoonful of 
melted butter, and cook till delicately browned on the under 
side. Set in the oven long enough to cook the top, fold, and 
torn on a hot platter. cody, wyq. 



74 Good Houskkeeping's Book of 



CHEESE OMELET 

4 tableBpoonf uls grated cheese Vz teaspoonful salt 
2 eggs Vs teaspoonf al pepper 

2 tablespoonfuls granulated tap- % teaspoonful dry mustard 
ioca 1 cupful hot milk 

V/z tablespoomfuls cooking oil 

Cook together for about ten minutes the tapioca, salt, pep- 
per, mustard, cheese, and hot milk. Add one-half tablespoon- 
f ul of the oil and the yolks of the eggs beaten very light. Stir 
well, remove from the fire, and fold in the whites of the eggs 
beaten stiff and dry. Put the rest of the oil into a frying or 
omelet pan, and when it is hot, pour in the mixture. Cook 
slowly until brown, then place in a slow oven until the top 
is dry, fold, and turn out on a hot platter. Garnish with 
parsley and serve at once. This is enough to serve three. 

NEW BRIGHTON, N. Y. 

CONCORDIA EGGS 

6 eggs 1 cupful grated cheese 

4 cupfuls cold cooked hominy 2 tablespoonf uls butter 

Salt and pepper 

Butter a shallow baking-dish and fill with the hominy, which 
should not be too stiff; with the bottom of a cup, make as 
many depressions in the hominy as there are eggs to be used. 
Sprinkle over half the cheese and set in a hot oven till it is 
melted and beginning to brown. Bemove from oven and 
drop an egg in each depression. Dot over the butter, sprinkle 
on the rest of the cheese, and dredge lightly with a little salt 
and pepper. Place in oven again till eggs are set, about ten 
minutes. conoord, mass. 

CREOLE EGGS 

1 tablespoonful butter Solid portion % can tomatoes, 

2 tablespoonfuls chopped onion or two large tomatoes, peeled 
2 tablespoonfuls chopped green and halved 

peppers Bread-crumbs 

% teaspoonful salt One or two eggs per individual 



Becipes and Household Discoveries 75 

Melt the butter, add onion, pepper, and the tomatoes, cover 
and cook fifteen minutes over a very slow heat, then season 
with salt. Butter the shirring-dishes, dust them lightly with 
crumbs, break in one or two eggs, stand in a shallow pan of 
water, and cook in the oven until the white is set but soft. 
Garnish each dish with a tablespoonful of the tomato mixture 
and serve in the dishes. mount qbetna, pa. 



DANDY STUFFED EGGS 

% dozen hard-cooked eggs p. slice salt pork or bacon 

1 pound dandelion greens 1 teaspoonf ul salt 

1 small onion 2 tablespoonfuls vin^ar 

Cut the eggs in halves and remove the yolks. Cook the 
greens until tender and divide in two portions. To one por- 
tion, chopped, add the salt pork fried crisp and chopped, the 
onion minced and cooked in the salt pork drippings, the salt, 
the vinegar, and the egg-yolks mashed. Pile the egg-whites 
with the mixture. Place in the oven to reheat, and serve on 
a bed of greens, using for this purpose the other portion of 
cooked greens seasoned to taste. Spinach, beet greens, or 
chard may be used in place of the dandelion. 

MILWAUEEE, WIS. 



A HEARTY OMELET 

1 pint milk 3 eggs 

y^ cupful corn-meal 1 teaspoonful salt 

6 slices bacon 

Scald milk in double-boiler. Pour onto corn-meal and put 
back on fire. Cock fifteen to twenty minutes, stirring fre- 
quently at first. Beat eggs separately; pour meal mixture 
into the beaten yolks, add salt, and fold in stifSy beaten 
whites. Have a large frying-pan in which bacon has been 
cooked; remove bacon and pour off most of the fat; pour 
(melet mixture into it. Bake about one-half hour in a rather 
moderate oven. Serve on platter garnished with bacon. 
Use either white or yellow corn-meal. afponaug n. I. 



76 QoGD Houseeeepinq's Book of 



MOCK TURTLE EGGS 

2 tablespoonfuls batter 1 tablespoonf ul hot water 

1 eupful bread-K^rumbs Salt 

1 cnpful condensed mock turtle Paprika 

soup 3 eggs 

Melt one tablespoonful of butter in a shallow casserole, 
cover with one-half cupful of dried bread-crumbs, and add the 
condensed mock turtle soup mixed with the hot water. Break 
in the eggs carefully, sprinkle sparingly with salt and paprika, 
add the other half -cupful of bread-crumbs, and dot with the 
remaining tablespoonful of butter. Brown in a quick oven. 
This recipe is intended to serve three. new yobk, n. y. 



OMELET ESPAGNOLE 

•5 eggs 1 teaspoonful salt 

5 tablespoonfuls water Vs teaspoonful pepper 

2 tablespoonfuls butter 1 Spanish onion, chopped 

Melt the butter in the omelet-pan and fry the onion in 
it very slowly until soft and golden-brown. Add salt to the 
egg-whites and beat them stiff. Beat the yolks until thick 
and add the pepper and water. Fold carefully together, 
adding a tablespoonful of the cooked onion; the remainder 
should be set aside in a warm place. Pour the egg-mixture 
into the omelet-pan, cover, and cook very slowly till firm 
throughout and golden-brown on the bottom. Spread the 
remaining onion over the cooked omelet, fold over, turn onto 
s. hot platter, and garnish with parsley. ithaca, n, y. 



POACHED EGGS WITH RAREBIT SAUCE 

6 eggs 6 rounds buttered toast 

Welsh rarebit sauce 

Poach eggs until they are set, in plenty of salted water, 
^nd be sure that they are well covered. Remove each to a 
round of buttered toast which has been placed in an indi- 
vidual shirred egg dish. Pour over them a Welsh rarebit 



Ebcipes and Household Discovbbibs 7T 

fiance made with milk in the double-boiler, and brown qnickly 
in a hot oven or under the broiler flame. Serve at once. 

NEW YORK, N. T.^ 

SHIERED EGGS IN GIBLET SAUCE 

3 eupf nls boiling water 2 tablespoonf uls flour 

3 sets chicken giblets % teaspoonful kitchen bouquet 

% teaspoonful grated onion ^ teaspoonful Worcestershire 

^ teaspoonful salt sauce 

Dash pepper 2 tablespoonfuls minced parsley 

2 tablespoonfuls butter 6 eggs 

Cfean giblets thoroughly and discard any green portions^ 
adhering to the liver. Fry until brown in the butter, add 
onion, salt, and pepper, and three cupfuls of boiling water 
and cook slowly for an hour and a half, until giblets are 
tender. There should then be two cupfuls of broth. Chop 
giblets flne, mix flour with a little cold water, and thicken 
broth ; add giblets and the rest of the seasonings and dispose in 
six rameki^ or shirred-egg dishes. Slip an egg, carefully 
broken, into each, dust with salt, pepper, and minced parsley, 
place a bit of butter on each, and bake in a moderate oven 
until the eggs are set. 



SPANISH OMELET 

6 strips bacon 1 tablespoonful minced green 
6 ^gs pepper 

4 sliced ripe olives 1 tablespoonful minced pimienta 

4 seedless raisins 1 tablespoonful minced parsley 

6 large mushrooms 1 tablespoonful minced onion 

^ teaspoonful paprika 1 tablespoonful flour 

6 tablespoonfuls milk 1 tablespoonful butter 

Salt 

Fry the bacon, remove, and keep hot. Then in the fat cook 
the pepper, pimiento, parsley, onion, olives, raisins, mush- 
rooms, and paprika together until tender. When cooked add 
the flour and one-fourth teaspoonful of salt. Beat the whites- 
of the eggs stiff and dry. Beat the yolks until lemon-colored 
and add one-half teaspoonful salt and the milk. Fold in th& 



78 OooD Housekeeping's Book of 

Btiffl^ beaten egg-whites. Pour this egg mixture into a hot 
omelet-pan^ in which the butter has been melted. Cook until 
brown on liie bottom, then place in a moderate oven for about 
five minutes or until it is dry on top. When cooked spread 
the filling on one-half and turn over the other half of the 
omelet to cover. Garnish with the hot strips of bacon. 

STOCKTON, CAU 

SPANISH SCRAMBLED EGGS 

2 tablespoonf uls butter % cupful rich milk 

1 chopped onion 1 teaspoonf ul salt 

% chopped green pepper % teaspoonful pepper 

^ chopped pimiento 6 e^;s 

Cook all except eggs together until tender; then add eggs, 
stir while cooking, and serve on toast. Stockton, cal. 



SPINACH OMELET 

1 cupful cooked spinach % cupful cream 
1^ tablespoonfuls flour 1 teaspoonful salt 

2 tablespoonfuls butter Few grains pepper 

4 eggs 

Chop spinach fine, and make a sauce of the butter, fionr, 
cream, pepper, and half the salt, allowing it to boil thoroughly. 
Combine this with the spinach, separate the egg-yolks from 
the whites, beat the yoll4 till lemon-colored, adding the rest 
of the salt and a little pepper. Beat the whites till stiff and 
dry and cut and fold them into the first mixture. Pour the 
egg-mixture into a hot, well-buttered omelet-pan, put the 
spinach over the top, and cook very gently for about twelve 
minutes till the egg is set and the omelet brown. Fold 
as usual. new yobk, n. y. 



SWEDISH OMELET 

4 eggB Vs teaspoonful pepper 

1 cupful milk 1 tablespoonful flour 

1 teaspoonful salt 1 tablespoonful butter 

Yz cupful thinly sliced cheese 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 79 

Blend together the flour, milk, and seasonings; beat the 
eggs very light and combine mixtures. In the meantime melt 
the butter in a frying-pan and, when very hot, turn in the 
mixture. Place in the lower part of a very hot oven, and 
when it is puffed up and browned on the bottom, set it on 
the upi>er grate to finish cooking and brown slightly. When 
this is done, spread the cheese over the omelet, and when it 
melts, fold, turn on a hot platter, and serve at once. As this 
omelet contains flour, it will not faU as much as one of the 
puffy variety. putnam, conn. 



Entrees 



BACON AND CORN, CAMP STYLE 

12 large slices bacon % green pepper 

2 Gupf Ills com, canned or boiled 1 small onion 

and cut from the cob Salt 

ft eggs . Pepper 

Cook bacon until crisp, pouring off fat occasionally during 
the cooking. Remove tiie bacon and keep warm. In about 
four tablespoonfuls of the bacon-fat cook the pepper and 
onion, chopped fine, for five minutes. Add the corn, egg& well 
beaten, and salt and pepper to taste and scramble all together 
in the hot fat. Heap on a hot platter and garnish with the 
bacon strips. dttlu^th, minn. 

BACON SOUFFLE PUDDING 

% cnpf nl minced bacon 4 ^gs 

8 slices stale bread 1 te^poonful salt 

Spread the cupful of minced bacon evenly over the bottom 
of baking-dish. Soak the stale bread in cold water for five 
minutes and drain. Beat the eggs well, add to the bread 
with salt, mix together; spread this mixture over the bacon. 
Bake in moderate oven for forty minutes. 

ALBUQUERQUE, N. MEX. 

COEN PUDDING 

2 cnpf Ills fresh or canned com 3 tablespoonfuls fine corn-meal 
1 sweet pepper 2 tablespoonfuls savory fat 

V/2 cupfuls milk 1 teaspoonful salt 

1 egg Vs teaspoonful pepper 

SO 



Bectpes and Household Discoveries 81 

Scald the milkj pour it over the meal, cover, and let it stand 
until cool. Add the com, the pepper cut fine, the beaten 
eggy and seasonings. Bake in a slow oven for an hour or more, 
stirring it at the end of half an hour, then letting it form a 
crisp, brown crust. Dried sweet com soaked and cooked in 
the same water until tender may be used in place of the fresh 
or canned com, if preferred. bedding, cjonn. 



FBANKFUBTERS AND NOODLES IN TOMATO SAUCE 

1% pounds frankfurters 1 pound egg noodles 

1 can tomato soup 

Boil the noodles till tender, drain, and add the soup. If 
this is too highly seasoned, dilute with a little boiling water 
and thicken slightly. Skin the frankfurters and steam them 
untU thoroughly done, about twenty minutes. Add to the 
noodles and tomato sauce and heat together for five minutes. 

EUBEELl, CAL. 



HANGTOWN FEY 

3 small sausages, cut cross-wise 1 cupful oysters, drained 
in rings 2 eggs slightly beaten 

Fry the sausage rings until medium brown. Put in the 
oysters, and when the edges curl, stir in the eggs and cook 
until they are set. Stir as for .scrambled eggs. This is an 
excellent chafing-dish recipe. tabpon springs, fla. 



HOMINY WITH OLIVES 

1 small onion V4 cupful milk 

3 scant cupfuls cooked samp or %. cupful water from hominy 
1 can hominy % cupful grated cheese 

Vs teaspoonful pepper 1 teaspoonful salt 

% cupful stoned ripe olives 

Fry the onion cut fine in the fat until golden. Add hominy, 
stirring until warm. Now add the milk and water from the 
hominy. Stirring all the time, add the cheese, and as this 



82 Good Housskeeping's Book of 

melts, add the olives chopped. Cook till the cheese is thor- 
oughly melted bat not stringy. Season and serve at once. 

HOLLYWOOD, CAL, 



MOCK CHOP SUET 

2 eupf uls diced cold roast pork Curry-powder to taste 

or veal Salt and paprika 

1 cupful diced celery 1 can button mushrooms, sliced 

1 large onion, diced 1 cupful gravy or slightly thick- 

4 tablespoonf uls butter ened stock 

Boiled rice 

Fry the celery and onion in the butter till tender, about 
thirty minutes ; then add the gravy and season as needed with 
salt, paprika, and curry-powder. The amount of curry to 
be used depends on its strength. Cook together for a few 
minutes, then add the meat and mushrooms, and serve around 
a mound of hot boiled rice. Fresh mushrooms may be used 
if fried for five minutes before combining. Fried noodles 
may be served with this dish. DETBorr, mich. 



ONIONS ON TOAST 

3 bunehes young onions Buttered toast 

White or drawn butter sauce 

Prepare the onions as for table use. Boil in salted water 
till tender, arrange on toast like asparagus, and pour over 
the desired sauce. oshkosh, wis. 



PRUNES IN BELGIAN STYLE 

Prunes Dash cayenne pepper 

1 small cream cheese 1 teaspoonful walnuts, chopped 

Cream or milk fine 

1 teaspoonful pecans, chopped 1 teaspoonful lemon juice 
fine 1 teaspoonful mdted butter 

Soak a sufficient number of prunes in cold water for several 
hours, then steam, chill and pit them. Stuff them with the 
following mixture : Mash the cream cheese with a little cream 



Begipes and Household Discoveries 83 

or milk, and add the cayenne, the pecans and walnuts, the 
lemon juice, and the melted butter. If possible, the prunes 
should be pitted through the pointed end and not through the 
sides ; they are then filled from the top and placed upright on 
tiny rounds of toasted bread. Let the filling protrude from 
the top of the prunes and sprinkle it with a little paprika. 

PHILADELPHIA, PA. 



SCSEAMBLED RICE AND BACON 

3 cupf Ills cooked rice 3 ^;gs, beatea 

12 filices bacon Salt and pepper 

Fry or bake the bacon till crisp ; pour off half the f at^ and 
put the bacon aside in a wferm place. Mix together the eggs 
and rice, and add salt and pepper as needed. Pour into the 
hot bacon-fat left in the frying-pan, and scramble. Heap in 
a mound on a hot platter, and surround with the bacon. 

PBOyiDENCE, B. I. 



Fish 



BAKED CLAMS RHODE ISLAND STYLE 

1 quart large, long clams Cracker-crumbs 

1 small onion, minced Clam-liquor 

Fat bacon 

Measure dams after removing from shell ; separate the soft 
from the hard portions, put the latter through a food-chopper 
and combine with the onion, clam-liquor, and cracker-crumbs 
till of the consistency of thick paste. Place the soft part of 
a clam in each half shell, fill with the mixture, place a small 
strip of bacon on top, and bake till light brown in a quick 
oven. If long clams are not available, round clams or 
"quahaugs" may be used. In this case, the whole clam is 

chopped. ANSONIA, CONK. 



BAKED CORN WITH CLAMS 

1 can minced clams 2 tablespoonf uls butter 

1 cupful canned com 1 teaspoonf ul salt 

1 cupful milk % teaspoonful pepper 

1 eggf well beaten Speck onion salt, if desired 

1 cupful dry bread-crumbs ^ teaspoonful paprika 

Mix ingredients, except butter, together well ; put them in 
a buttered baking-dish, place bits of butter on top, and bake 
one-half hour. Fresh com may be used. pasadena, caij. 



BAKED FISH WITH CHEESE 

1 pound halibut % pound cheese 

4 slices salt pork Salt and pepper 

84 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 85 

Cut the salt pork in bits and put in an enamelware or 
aluminum baking-pan; lay fish on top, dust with salt and 
pepper, cover with the cheese, which has been put through the 
coarse knife of the food-chopper, and bake about twenty 
minutes in a hot oven. The fish should be cut about a half- 
inch thick. NORWOOD, MASS. 

BAKED FLOUNDER 

A 4-pound flounder 1 cupful soft bread-crumbs 

5 thin slices salt pork Dried parsley 

Salt % cupful melted margarin or 
Pepper savory fat 

Remove the flesh from the flounder in fillets. On the 
bottom of a baking-pan or casserole lay three of the salt 
I)ork slices; on these lay half of the fish, sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, and spread with the bread-crumbs which have 
been seasoned with one-half teaspoonful of salt, one-fourth 
teaspoonful of pepper, a little dried parsley, and the melted 
margarin. On this lay the rest of the fish, sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, and lay the rest of the pork on top. Bake in a 
moderate oven for twenty minutes. Serve with drawn butter 
or tomato sauce. new yore, n. y. 

BOILED SHAD 

1 medium-sized shad Va teaspoonful pepper 

% cupful moderately strong % teaspoonful cinnamon 

vin^ar 2 egg-yolks 

1 cupful water 1^ teaspoonfuls flour 

% teaspoonful salt 1 onion sliced 

Sugar to taste. 

Stir together the egg-yolks, flour, and seasonings, and add 
vinegar and water. Add just enough sugar to neutralize the 
acid, about one-half tablespoonful. Stir in the onion and 
bring all to a boil. Put in the shad and boil gently till tender, 
about twenty minutes, keeping an asbestos mat under the 
kettle, as the mixture is liable to stick. When partly cool 
transfer the fish to a platter and strain over the sauce. Serve 
cold. Sea trout may be cooked in the same way. 

ALMYRA, N. Y. 



86 Good Housekeepino's Book of 



CLAM GRIDDLES 

1 pint clams % cupful milk 

1 tablespoonful butter or beef 1% cupfuls pastry flour 
drippings 2 teaspoonfuls baMng-powder 

2 eggs H teaspoonful salt 

% teaspoonful pepper 

Clean clams and drain from liquor ; then chop fine. Beat 
eggs light ; add the milk and the flour mixed with the baking- 
powder and seasonings, then the butter melted and the 
chopped clams. Fry as usual on a griddle. If too thick, 
the batter should be thinned with a little milk or water? 

NOBTH BERWICK, ME. 

CLAM PIE 

1 pint of hard clams or qua- 1 pint of water 

haugs 3 potatoes, diced 

1 piece of fat, salt pork, two Salt and pepper to taste 

inches square 4 tablespoonfuls flour 

1 tablespoonful butter Biscuit-dough 

Cut pork into cubes, add the clam-juice, the water, ^flid 
butter, and simmer gently for forty-five minutes. Season to 
taste with salt and pepper. In the meantime cook potatoes 
until almost tender, and add them to the clam-juice. Thicken 
with the flour rubbed smooth in a little cold water. Add 
clams, which should be cut in pieces, and pour into a buttered 
baking-dish. Shape the biscuit-dough into small rounds, set 
over the pie, and bake about twenty minutes in a moderate 
oven. If an onion flavor is desired, one or two thinly sliced 
onions may be added to the water, clam-juice, and pork when 

first put to cook. ELMHUBST, L. I. 

CODFISH CAKES 

% pound salt codfish 1 egg 

5 to 6 medium-sized potatoes V^ teaspoonful pepper 

3 ounces fat salt pork Salt 

Soak the codfish for several hours in water to cover. Pare 
the potatoes and cook them in boiling water, placing the fish, 



Becipes and Household Discoveries 87 

drained, on top during the cooking. When the potatoes are 
done, drain. Cut the pork into dice and try out in a frying- 
pan. When crisp, chop the pork very fine, using a chopping- 
bowl and knife for the purpose. Add the fish and chop it 
fine also ; then add the potatoes and chop, but do not mash. 
Mix well together, adding the egg unbeaten, the pepper, and 
salt if needed. Form into flat cakes, roll in flour, and fry 
to a crisp, golden brown in the pork fat. Add drippings^ if 
more fat is needed for frying. This amount will make twelve 
cakes. lawbengb, mass. 

CODFISH OMELET 

1 pint codfish 1 tablespoonful butter 

1 pint raw potatoes thinly sliced 1 egg 
% teaspoonful pepper • % cupful milk 

Salt 2 tablespoonfuls drippings 

Parsley 

Boil the codfish, that has been soaked and picked fine, with 
the potatoes. When cooked, mash fine and add pepper, and 
salt, if needed ; add butter, yolk of egg, milk, and last of all 
the stiffly-beaten white of the egg. Melt one tablespoonful of 
drippings in each side of an omelet pan and pour in mixture; 
brown nicely. Fold together and garnish with parsley. 

SAN FEANCISCO, CAL. 



CONCOEDIA SCALLOPED OYSTERS 

1 pint oysters 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

2 cupfuls diced cooked celery 1 pint thin white sauce 
1 cupful dried bread- or cracker- 2 teaspoonf uls salt 

crumbs % teaspoonful pepper 

Speck mace 

Prepare the oysters carefully by washing the hands and 
passing each oyster through the fingers, using extreme care 
to remove all bits of shell. Then place the oysters in a 
strainer and pour cold water through them. Place a layer 
of the crumbs in a shallow, buttered baking-dish, then a 
layer of oysters^ using half of them, and then a layer of celery. 



88 QooD Housekeeping's Book of 

xming one cupfal. Sprinkle with salt and pepper and dot 
with bits of bntter ; then add a layer of the white sauce which 
has been seasoned with half of the salt and pepper and the 
mace. Bepeat, having crumbs dotted with butter as the top 
layer. Bake in a hot oven one-half hour, until the crumbs 
are a rich brown. congoed, mass. 



CONCORDIA OYSTER STEW 

1 pint oysters V^ teaspoonfnl pepper 

% cnpf ul water 1 tablespoonf ul flour 

1 pint mDk 1 tablespoonfnl margarin 

2 teaspoonf nk salt 1 pint diced celery 

Wash oysters carefully, removing every particle of shell, 
and put on to cook with the water. Watch carefully, and 
when the edges curl, remove from stove and drain. Strain 
the broth through a fine strainer, add the milk, hot but not 
boiling, and the salt and pepper. Thicken with the flour and 
margarin blended together. Add the oysters and the celery 
which has been stewed until tender, let boil up and serve. 
The thickening may be omitted, if preferred, but the creamy 
consistency is most delicious. If a thinner stew is desired, 
twice the quantity of milk may be used. In this case, double 
the amount of thickening also. concord, mass. 



CORN-MEAL OYSTER FRITTERS 

1 cnpfnl corn-meal % cupful milk 

1 cupful bread flour 1 teaspoonful baking-powder 

1 teaspoonful salt 2 eggs 

1 dozen medium oysters 

Mix together thoroughly the corn-meal, flour, salt, and 
baking-powder. Add the eggs well beaten and the milk. 
Fold the oysters into the batter. Drop by tablespoonfuls into 
hot, deep fat. Have one oyster in each fritter. Cook on 
both sides until well done. Drain on paper and serve at once. 

HASTINGS, MICH. 



Recipes and Household Discovebibs 89F 



CREAMED FINNAN HADDIE AND POTATO 

A 2-pomid finnan haddie 1 cupful milk 

2 green peppers 1 teaspoonful salt 

2 cupfuls boiling water % teaspoonful pepper 

2 tablespoonfuls margarin 2^ cupfuls cold, boiled pota- 

2 tablespoonfuls flour toes, diced 

Parboil the finnan haddie for a few minutes in boiling 
water, remove the ^kin, and take the fish from the bone. 
Cut it into small pieces and boil it ten minutes with the 
green peppers, chopped in the boiling water. Make a white 
sauce as follows: Melt the margarin, add the flour, cook until 
it bubbles and add gradually one cupful of the liquid in 
which the flsh was cooked and the milk. Season with salt 
and pepper. Combine the fish, peppers, and potatoes with 
the white sauce. Serve hot. new toek, n. y. 



FISH ROB CAKES 

1 large fish-roe 1 egg 

Dry bread-crumbs % teaspoonful salt 

A little paprika 

Measure the fish-roe and add three-fourths the quantity of 
dry bread-crumbs; then work in the seasoning and egg; shape 
into small cakes or balls, roll in fiour, and fry about eight 
minutes. Serve with stewed tomatoes. DANvnjLE, pa. 



FLOUNDER ROE FRIED 

Roe from a 5-pound flounder Fine dried bread- or cracker* 

1 teaspoonful salt crumbs 

1 teaspoonful vinegar 1 egg 

Tie the roe in cheese-cloth, immerse in boiling water to which 
the salt and vinegar have been added, and cook ten minutes. 
Remove and cover with cold water. When cool, cut in 
pieces, roll in beaten egg to which two tablespoonfuls of water 
has been added, and crumbs, and brown in hot deep fat. 
Drain on crumpled paper and serve. new yobs, n. t» 



90 Good Housekeeping's Book ov 



FLOUNDERS WITH PARSLEY SAUCE 

4 large fillets flonnder V^ enpful milk 

1 tableBpocnful salt Yz teaspoonf ul salt 

1 tablespoonful vinegar Vs teaspoonf ul pepper 

2 tablespoonfnls butter 2 tablespoonfub finely minced 
2 tablespocmfuls flour parsley 

Tie the fillets in cheese-cloth. Cook for six minutes in plenty 
of boiling water to which the salt and vinegar have been 
added. Remove and drain thoroughly, place on a hot platter, 
and pour over a parsley sauce made as follows: Melt in a 
saucepan the butter, add the flour, and cook till bubbling. 
Add gradually the milk and one-half cupful of the water 
in which the flounder was cooked, stirring continuously that 
the sauce may be free from lumps. Cook until well thickened, 
add salt, pepper, and parsley. new yokk, n. y. 



HALIBUT BAKED IN MILK 

2% pounds of halibut, sliced Flour 

2 tablespoonfnls minced parsley Milk 

3^ cupful butter Salt and pepper 

Lay the fish in a deep, fire-proof platter, if possible; sea- 
son with salt and pepper, dredge with flour, sprinkle with 
the parsley, and dot with the butter. Add milk to the depth 
of one inch, and, if desired, lay over some sliced onion and 
a few minced celery-tips. Bake gently for forty-five minutes 
in a moderate oven. CAMBBmoE, mass. 



NEW ENGLAND CODFISH DINNER 

1 pound salt codfish 2 pounds new potatoes 
% pound salt poik 2 cupfuls small onions 

12 small raw beets 2 cupfuls medium-thick white 

2 hard-oooked eggs sauce 

Put the codfish on in cold watar and bring slowly to the 
boiling-point, but do not boiL If sofficient salt is extracted^ 



Recipes and Household Discovehies 91 

flake with a fork. If it is still too salty, repeat by again plac- 
ing in cold water. Cut the pork in narrow, thin slices and 
crisp in oven or frying-pan. Cook the vegetables separately. 
Place the fish in a dish and cover with white sauce. Sprinkle 
chopped, hard-cooked eggs over the top. Garnish the platter 
with pork and vegetables by grouping: place the beets at 
both ends, the potatoes front and back, tiie onions between 
with pork strips. Parsley also adds to the appearance of 
the dish. Winter vegetables may be used, in which case se- 
lect small potatoes and cut the beets in quarters. 

PELHAM, N. Y. 

NEW SCALLOPED OYSTERS 

iy2 cupfuls dried bread- or 4 tablespoonfuls butter 

cracker-crumbs 24 oysters 

% cupful stewed or camied to- H cupful com 

mato Salt and pepper 

Place one-third of the crumbs on the bottom of a buttered 
baking-dish; on this lay one-half the oysters sprinkled gen- 
erously with salt and pepper and dotted with one tablespoon- 
f ul of the butter ; then add layers of tomato and com, using 
one-half the whole quantity of each; repeat these layers of 
crumbs, oysters, seasoning, tomato, and com.. Top all with 
% layer of buttered crumbs, using the remaining crumbs and 
butter. Bake in a moderate oven until crumbs are brown. 

BOGHBSTEB^ N,J. 

OYSTERS CATALAN 

2 dozen blue-point oysters 3 tablespoonfuls cream 

2 tablespoonfuls butter Meat 1 good sized crab or 

2 teaspoonfuls grated Edam ^ cupful crab meat 

cheese 1 teaspodnful Worcestershire 

4 tablespoonfuls tomato catchup sauce or a few grains cayenne 

^ teaspoonful salt pepper 

Hot buttered toast 

Melt together the butter and cheese in a double-boiler or 
chafing-dish. When smooth add the catchup, Worcestershire, 
cream, and minced crab meat. When very hot, drop in the 
oysters, cook till they crinkle, and transfer at once to the 

toast. NAPOIiEON, o. 



92 Bboifbs and Housbhold Discovebies 



OYSTER PIE 

1 qnart oysteiB 2 teanpoonf nls salt 

Seasoned floor % teaspoonf ul pepper 

Large slice bacon % teaspoonf ul paprika 

1 tablespoonf ul finely minced Few grains cayenne pepper 

parsley Juice 1 lemon 

1 tablespoonful finely chopi)ed 1 tablespoonful cream or butter 

green pepper Crust 

1 small onion 

Select a rather shaUQw dish and butter it well. Wash 
the oysters, removing any bits of shell, and wipe them dry 
between towels. Roll them in flour which has been slightly 
seasoned with salt and pepper and plaee half of them close to- 
gether in a single layer in the dirii. Cut the bacon in tiny 
dice and try it out with the onion minced, until both are 
crisp and brown. Sprinkle half of this over the layer of 
oysters, together with half of the parsley, green pepper, salt, 
pepi)er, paprika, cayenne pepper, and lemon juice. Over this 
place another layer of oysters, tsfanilarly prepared and repeat 
the seasonings as above. Over all sprinkle the cream or 
butter in bits and cover with a crust. A rich biscuit-dough 
rolled thin or a pastry crust may be used. Whichever 
crust is used, roll to one-quarter inch thickness, cut in rounds^ 
and remove the centers as in cutting doughnuts. Place on 
the pie and bake in a hot oven, 450° P., for twenty minutes. 

' NEW YORK, N. Y. 

SOLE WITH BUTTER SAUCE 

A 4-pound sole 2 tablespoonf uls melted butter 

1 tablespoonful salt Juice % lemon 

1 tablespoonful vinegar Parsley 

Fillet the sole and tie the fillets in cheese-cloth and drop 
them into boiling water in which the salt and vinegar have 
been placed. Lower the temperature and cook for about 
six minutes. Remove and drain well. Arrange on a hot 
platter, and pour over the fish the melted butter and the 
lemon juice. Garnish with parsley and serve with boiled 
potatoes. NEW york, n. y. 



Frostings 



CBEAMT FILLING 

9 tablespoonf uls bntter Few drops vanilla 

H cupful powdered sugar ^ teaspoonful lemon or orange 

1 egg-white extract 

Cream the butter and sugar together, mixing tiU very 
smooth and light. Add beaten egg-white a little at a time, 
beating constantly, then add vanilla and flavoring slowly till 
all is stirred in. This should be prepared at le^ast an hour 
before using and placed in the refrigerator. It will also be 
found an exceptionally good hard sauce. fobt bliss, tbx. 

LEMON BUTTER 

3 egg-yolks 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

1 egg-white % teaspoonful each vanilla and 

Juice 2 lemons lemon extract 

1 cupful sugar 

Beat the egg-yolks and white with the sugar till light ; add 
the butter and lemon juice, cook over hot water till thick, 
flavor, and cooL This may be used as a cake or sandwich. 

GEOBGETOWN, DEL. 

MAPLE FROSTING 

1 cupful crushed maple-sugar 1 egg-white 

y^ cupful hot water 

Cook sugar and water together until it spins a thread; 
pour this over the beaten white of an egg, stirring constantly; 
return to double boiler and cook till it becomes slightly dry 
around the edges. It should be stirred occasionally. Then 
remove from water and beat till thick. Washington, d. o. 

93 



94 Bbcipes and Household Discovebibs 



ORANGE ICING 

2 cupf ok eoaf ectioners' sugar 1 teasx)ooiif ul melted butter 

Juice % orang^e 

Beat s«gar and butter into the orange juice and when stiff 
enough to hold its shape spread on the cake. Kn^LiNGLY, conn. 

QUALITY FROSTING 

% cupful granulated sugar % cupful boiling water 

% cupful brown sugar 1 ^g-white 

^ teaspoonful vanilla 

Mix together the sugar and water and boil till it threads. 
Beat the egg-white stiff and pour in the sirup, beating con- 
stantly till it holds its shape. Place over hot water till it 
becomes slightly granular about the edges, add flavoring, and 
spread on the cake. yonkees, n. y. 

SUBSTITUTE FOR WHIPPED CREAM 

2 ^g-wkites % pound marshmallows 

y^ cupful condensed milk 'Flavoring 

Beat the whites of the eggs until very stiff and dry. Add 
slowly to the condensed milk, beating const«tntly. Heat the 
marshmallows in the top of a double-boiler until soft. Then 
into the above mixture beat the softened marshmallows. Add 
any flavoring desired and beat all together well. 

new YORK, N. Y. 

SUGARLESS CAKE FILLING 

1 tablespoonful marshmallow 1 cupful jam or fruit conserve 

cream Shredded coconut 

Beat the marshmallow cream into the jam or conserve, 
using any preferred flavor of the latter. Spread on the cake 
and sprinkle a little shredded coconut over the surface. 

TOMS river, n. j. 



Fruit Combinations 



APPLE CRISP 

8 apples, sliced (about 1 quart) 1 cupful sugar 
1 teaspoonful cinnamon % cupful flour 

y^ cupful water 7 tablespoonf uls butter 

Butter a fire-proof dish and fill with the apples, water, and 
cinnamon mixed. Work together the remainder of the in- 
gredients with the finger-tips until crumbly, spread over ttie 
apple-mixture, and bake uncovered for about thirty minutes. 
Serve with whipped cream, lemon sauce, or maple-sirup. 

FABGO, N. DAE. 



APPLE PUDDING 

5 apples 1 teaspoonful vinegar 

y^ cupful molasses 1 teaspoonful cinnamon 

% cupful brown sugar % cupful cold water 

1 tablespoonful butter 

Grease a pudding dish, put in the apples, which have been 
pared, cored, and quartered, then add the other ingredients in 
the order given and cover the top with a rich pie crust. 
Bake thirty minutes. Nashua, n. h. 



BAKED APPLES DE LUXE 

2 quarts apples % cupful butter 

% cupful sugar 

Cut the fruit in quarters, but do not pare, though dark 
spots should be removed. Melt the butter and add the sugar 
to it. Stir this mixture with the apples and place all in a deep 

95 



96 Good Housekbbpiko's Book of 

pan, coyer closdy and bake slowly for one hour. Serve hot 
with meata philadblphia, pa. 



BAKED DMED PEACHES 

1 poimd dried peaches % teisispoonf al cinnamon 

y^ cupful simp or honey 1 tablespoonful margarin 

2 cnpfnls eold wat^ 

Soak the peaches overnight. Place in a deep dish, sprinkle 
with the cinnamon, and pour over them the sirup or honey. 
Cover with the cold water. Bake until nearly tender, add the 
margarin, and complete the baling. Albany, n. y. 



BAKED PINEAPPLE 

8 slices pineapple 2 teaspoonfuls butter 

6 graham cradcers Pineapple juice 

Butter a baking-dish and cover the bottom with graham 
crackers finely crumbed. Then put in a layer of sliced canned 
pineapple, keeping the slices whole. Dot with butter and 
add another layer of crumbs, continuing in this way until all 
is used. Pour over the pineapple juice and bake three-quar- 
ters of an hour. Either canned pineapple or fresh cooked 
pineapple and juice may be used in this recipe. 

WASHINGTON, D. O. 



BANANAS, WEST INDIAN STYLE 

6 bananas 6 tablespoonfuls water 

4 tablespoonfuls sugar 5 drops tabasco sauce 

Dash lemon juice 

Peel bananas, cut in halves crosswise, and drop into deep 
fat hot enough to brown a bit of bread in one minute. When 
brown, drain on paper-toweling or brown paper. Boil to- 
gether the sugar, water, and tabasco sauce, add bananas and 
lemon juice, heat for a few minutes, and serve. Roberts, gal. 



Becifes and Household Discoveries 97 



FEIED APPLES WITH ONIONS 

3 pints quartered taxt apples Meat drippings, or butter, about 

2 pints sliced onions H cupful 

iy2 teaspoonf uls salt 2 tablespoonf uls sugar 

Heat the fat in a frying-pan, add the onions and salt, and 
cook gently over a slow fire for ten minutes, stirring occa- 
sionally. Add the apples and sugar and let cook slowly un- 
til browned. akeon, o. 

MAPLE APPLE SAUCE 

2 quarts apples 1 lemon, sliced and cut into 

1^ cupfuls maple simp quarters 

Prepare the apples by paring, coring, and cutting into 
eighths. Mix all the ingredients together and bake in a cov- 
ered earthenware dish in a moderate oven for several hours 
until the apples are tender and of a rich dark red color. 
Use as a meat accompaniment. Jamaica plain, mass. 



RUSSIAN APPLES 

6 large dark apples 6 tablespoonf uls sugar 

6 tablespoonf uls mince-meat Hard sauce 

Pare and core the apples, fill the centers with mince-meat, 
place in a baking-pan, and sprinkle generously with sugar. 
Pour in a little boiling water, and bake half an hour, basting 
often. Serve hot with hard sauce, flavored with lemon and 
nutmeg. bedding, conn. 



Meat 



BAKED CALVES' LIVBB 

1% pounds ealves' liver, whole 2 tablespoonfuls thick, sour 
1 cupful hot water cream 

1 tablespoonfnl flour Salt and pepper 

Butter or salt pork bits 

Bemove the skin, and lard the liver with small strips of 
salt pork. Dust with salt and pepper. Brown in the butter 
or salt pork bits. Add the hot water and bake thirty nun- 
utes in a hot oven, basting twice, the last time with the cream 
and flour mixture. palmyra, n."y. 



BAKED CORNED BEEP HASH 

3 cupfuls cooked corned beef 2 tablespoonfuls buttCT or drip- 
chopped pings 
1 medium sized onion 1^^ cupfuls milk 
6 medium sized potatoes 2 teaspoonf uls salt 

% teaspoonful pepper 

Grease a casserole, place in the bottom the chopped meat, 
add the onion minced, then slice on top the raw potatoes. 
Season each layer of potatoes with butter, salt, and pepper. 
Pour milk over all. Cover and bake until milk is absorbed 
and potatoes are tender. eau claire, wis. 



BAKED HAM WITH APPLES 

2 poimds sliced ham % cupful water 

6 medium sized tart apples 1^ cupfuls brown sugar 

10 whole cloves 

96 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 99 

Order the ham sliced an inch thick, wash, trim ott most 
of the fat, and then rub in as much of the sugar as it will 
take up. Lay in a pan and sprinkle with the cloves. Pare 
and cut the apples in quarters and lay them around the ham. 
Sprinkle the remaining sugar over tiie apples, and add the 
water carefully so as not to dislodge it. Cover and bake 
forty-five minutes, or till the ham is tender, pittsbubg, pa. 



BAKED ORANGES WITH VEAL 

1 slice veal steak 2 large oranges 

2 tablespoonfuls flour % cupful water 

1 tablespoonf ul margarin 1 teaspoonful salt 

1 bay leaf V^ teaspoonful pepper 

Parsley 

Order a slice of veal steak cut one inch thick ; it will weigh 
about one and one-half pounds. Dip this in flour and place 
it in a greased casserole; dot over with bits of margarin, 
sprinkle with salt and pepper, and add the bay-leaf. Peel 
and quarter the oranges and place these around the steak, 
add the water and bake until golden brown, basting often. 
Serve on hot platter and alternate oranges with sprigs of 
parsley. Make a gravy using the remainder of the flour, 
seasoning, and water as needed. Pour gravy over the steak 
and serve at once. toledo, o« 



BAKED PORK CHOPS WITH APPLES 

6 pork chops Pepper 

6 tablespoonfuls dried bread- Sage 

ermnbs 3 large apples 

Salt 3 teaspoonfuls butter 

Dust pork chops lightly with salt, pepper, bread-crumbs 
and sage. Place in a baking-dish, put on each a halved, cored 
apple containing one-half teaspoonful of butter, and cook 
in a moderate oven till tender, about forty-five minutes. 
When the crumbs are brown, add a little water. 

NEW YOBE, N. Y. 



100 Good Housekees>ino's Book of 



BAKED SAUSAGE WITH APPLES 

1 enpf ul stale bread 6 laj^ sausages or 1 pound 

1 enpf ul eold com bread % onion, scraped or grated 

2 tablespoonf uls chopped liver Sweet herbs and seasoning to 
6 or 6 apples taste 

Milky about 1 cupful 

Soak the bread and com bread in sweet milk for five min- 
utes and squeeze dry; add liver and seasoning, and arrange 
in a mound in the center of a large, shallow, greased baking 
dish. Around this lay the sausages, pricking or gashing each 
one, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes; then 
pour off the superfluous fat, and add the apples, cored and 
cut in thick slices; baste all freely with fat, and bake one- 
half hour longer. bedding, conn. 

BAKED SLICED HAM I 

f2 pounds sliced ham ^ 2 teaspoonfuls minced parsley 

12 teaspoonfuls minced onion Juice % l^non to each slice 

Order ham sliced one-half inch thick; remove fat nearly 
to the lean, and chop it fine; mince the onion and parsley, 
mix with the fat, and spread over the ham, which should be 
put into a dripping-pan. Squeeze over the lemon juice, and 
bake till tender in a moderate oven, from thirty to forty min- 
utes. A delicious brown or milk gravy can be made from 
the drippings in the pan. Chicago, ill. 

BAKED SLICED HAM II 

1 slice fat ham 2 tablespoonf uls sugar 

Trim off the wide rim of fat on the ham, chop it fine, and 
mix thoroughly with the sugar. Place the ham in a skillet, 
dripping-pan, or fireless-cooker pan, and spread the chopped 
mixture over it. Bake for twenty-five minutes in a hot oven, 
or allow forty-five minutes with a radiator at 400® F. in a 
fireless cooker. It is not necessary to freshen the ham. 

ELGIN, IliL. 



Begepes and Household Discovebibs 101 



BEEP FRICASSEE 

1 flank steak % teaspoonful pepper 

1 onion 4 tablespoonfuls flour 

2 teaspoonfuls salt Baking-powder biscuit miztore 

Purchase a piece of meat cut from the flank, weighing be- 
tween two and three pounds. Simmer the meat slowly in 
water to cover with the onion, salt, and pepper, until very 
tender. Take one-half the meat, trim off the fat, which should 
be saved for other purposes, and cut in one-inch pieces. 
Thicken two cupfuls of the stock with the flour and re- 
heat the meat in this. Add more seasoning if needed. Pour 
the whole over spilt baking-powder biscuits, after the man- 
ner of chicken fricassee. Use the rest of the meat in an- 
other dish, such as hash or souffle. If any stock is left, it 
may be used to moisten the hash, or in soup or scrapple. 

CEDAR BAPmSy lA. 

BEEP LIVER WITH ONIONS 

iy2 pounds beef liver Salt and pepper 

6 onions Bacon-fat 

Flour 

Order the liver sliced thin. Remove the skin and veins 
from the liver, then dust it with flour, salt, and pepper. Slice 
the onions thin and fry till soft in the bacon-fat. Remove the 
onions and fry the liver rapidly in the fat. When brown on 
one side turn, put the onions on top, and flnish cooking. 
Remove to a hot platter, add a little water to the drippings 
in the pan to make a gravy, and pour it over the liver. If 
desired a little thinly sliced bacon may be cooked and used 
as a garnish. new yobe, n. y. 

BEEF LOAF 

2 pounds chopped fresh beef 1 tablespoonf ul salt 

% ponnd fresh pork % teaspoonful pepper 

1^ cupfuls oatmeal put through 2 teaspoonfuls poultry seasoning^ 

grinder 2 teaspoonfuls tomato catchup 

2 ^;gs 2 teaspoonfuls mdted butter 

About % cupful cold water 



102 Good HousBKEEapma's Book of 

Mix together in order given, adding enough cold water to 
make it stick together, but leave it stiff enough to keep its 
shape when formed into a roll. Heat two tablespoonfuls of 
drippings in a frying-pan, put in the meat-roll, and brown 
it slightly all over. Then pour over it a little boiling water, 
set it in the oven, and bake gently for an hour and a quarter, 
basting frequently. augusta, kan. 



BEEF SCRAPPLE 

2 pounds shin of beef About 3 enpf uls com-meal 

% pound cooked liver 1 tablespoonful salt 

1 tablespoonful sage 1 teaspoonful pepper 

Water 

Cover the soup bone well with water and cook slowly till 
meat is thoroughly done and begins to drop from bone. Then 
remove meat and bone. Cut off meat and put through food- 
chopper together with the liver. Eetum chopped meat to 
the stock and add the salt, pepper and sage. When it boils 
add corn-meal, which should be barely moistened with cold 
water. The exact quantity to add will depend upon the 
amount of stock; there should be at least two quarts. Add 
the corn-meal slowly till the spoon will stand alone in the 
center of it. Cook very slowly for at least an hour. Pour 
into two greased bread-pans and allow to chill thoroughljr. 
Turn out of mold, slice thin, and fry till brown. This will 
keep for a long time in a cold place. washinqton, pa. 



CAMP STEW 

% pound shredded, dried beef 3 slices diced bacon 

1 tablespoonful butter 2 cupfuls sliced potatoes 

2 tablespoonfuls flour ^ cupful sliced onions 

1 quart hot water 

Cook together the butter, flour, and bacon till browned. 
Then add the water, potatoes, and onions; cook twenty min- 
utes more, then turn in the beef, boil for ten minutes, and 
serve. A little pepper may be added if desired. 

SETM0X7B, CONN. 



Begipes and Household Discoveries 



103 



CASSEROLE PLANK STEAK 



A flank steak 

1 tablespoonful ▼in^;ar 

% cupful rolled oats 

% cupful boiling water 

1 cupful browned com bread 

or muffin crumbs 
1 teaspoonful salt 
1 teaspoonful fine sage 



1 tablespoonf ul chopped onion 

1 teaspoonful chopped green 
pepper 

% teaspoonful pepper 
12 small potatoes 
12 tiny carrots 
Water 

2 tablespoonfuls flour 



Score the steak, being careful not to cut all the way 
through; brush with vinegar and let stand while preparing 
the filling. Pour the boiling water over the oat flakes and 
cook untU the water is all absorbed. Let cook and mix it 
with the crumbs, which have been browned in the oven, and 
the seasonings; add enough water to moisten sufficiently to 
spread on steak. After spreading the filling on the steak, 
roll, skewer, or tie together; lard with trimmings from the 
steak. Place in a greased casserole, arrange potatoes and 
carrots around the steak, pour in one-half cupful of water, 
cover, and place in oven for about two hours. Remove meat 
and vegetables and use flour and water as needed in making 
gravy. Sliced large potatoes and carrots may be used if 
desired. HniWAUKEE, wis. 



CASSEROLE OF BEEF 



2% pounds beef chuck 
1 quart canned tomato 
H cupful bacon drippings 
% cupful flour 

1 large onion 

2 teaspoonf uls salt 
y^ teaspoonful pepper 



4 cloves 

1 green or red pepper or pimi- 
ento, chopped 

1 teaspoonful salt 

Vs teaspoonful pepper 
% teaspoonful mustard 

2 bay leaves 



Roll beef cut in convenient pieces in the flour seasoned 
with salt and pepper (flrst column) ; brown it with the onion, 
chopped, in the bacon drippings. Place in a casserole. Put 
any r^naining flour into the fat in the pan and add the rest 
of ihe ingredients to make the sauce. Pour it over the beef 
in the casserole and bake two to three hours at a temperature 

of 350® F. NEW TOBK, N. Y. 



104 Good Housi£E3aa>iNo's Book of 



COLD BOILED TONGUE WITH SPANISH SAUCE 

1 beef tongae 1 onion 

1 enpful mild vinegar 6 sweet cucumber pickles or 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar fresh cucumbers (small ones) 
% teaspoonf ul ground cloves 1 sweet green or red pepper 

6 olives 

Boil the tongue in sufficient v^ater to cover until tender. 
Skin and aUow to cool. Slice thinly and spread with the 
sauce made in the following manner : Chop iJie peppers, on- 
ion, cucumbers, and olives finely. Cover with the vinegar, 
sugar, and spices. Let boil fifteen minutes. When cold, 
spread on the tongue. The part of the tongue not suitable 
for slicing can be used in hash or a scalloped dish, noswet, u. 

CORN-MEAL VEAL 

I pound veal 24 green olives, chopped 

1 pint canned tomatoes 1 tablespoonful chilli powder or 

1 onion, chopped fine 1 long chilli pepper, chopped 

1 clove gftrlic, chopped fine 3 teaspoonf uls salt 

About 2 cupf uls corn-meal V^ teaspoonf ul pepper 

y^ teaspoonful papiika 

Boil the veal until tender, chop fine, then return to the 
liquor, of which there should be about five cupfuls, add the 
balance of the ingredients, except the meal, sinmier until 
tender, and add gradually enough corn-meal moistened with 
cold water to thicken. Add seasonings and pour into a well- 
greased loaf -pan. Let it get cold, slice, roll in flour, and fry 
as scrapple. This may be baked in a casserole. 

SAN HATBO, OAL. 

DELICIOUS BAKED TONGUE 

1 fresh beef tongue 1 onion 

1 cupful strained, stewed tomato 8 medium-sized potatoes 

1 cupful water 2 tablespoonfuls flour 

Salt Pepper 

Boil the tongue one hour in salted water and place in a 
fireless cooker overnight. In the morning remove the fikin^ 



Becifes and Household Discoybbies 105 

sprinkle well with* salt and pepper, and place in a roasting- 
pan or large casserole. Mix together the tomato-juice, water, 
and chopped onion, and pour it around the tongue. Bake in 
a rather slow oven for two hours. Three-quarters of an 
hour before it is done, place whole, pared potatoes sprinkfed 
with salt and pepper around the tongue. Boast till tender 
and brown ; remove cover to brown potatoes if necessary. Re- 
move the tongue to a platter, surround with potatoes. Add 
one cupful or more of water to the sauce and thicken with the 
flour mixed till smooth with a little water. Add more sea- 
soning if needed. Pour a few tablespoonfuls of the gravy 
over the tongue. Pass the rest. The ends of the tongue may 
be chopped and used in ''made*' dishes. Washington, pa. 



DEVILED BEEF 

Cold roast-beef (sliced) Salt 

Bntter Pepper 

Prepared mustard Vinegar 

Cut cold roast beef in thin slices, spread with butter, then 
with prepared mustard ; sprinkle with a little salt and pepper, 
and slightly moisten with vinegar. Let stand ten minutes 
and cook quickly in a hot frying-pan with a little additional 
butter to prevent sticking. Serve very hot with the pan drip- 
pings poured over it. Cold cooked steak, if sliced across the 
grain, may also be used. harvard, mass. 



"DIFFERENT" DRIED BEEF 

% pomid dried beef 3 tablespoonfuls bacon-drippings 

4 to 6 bananas (not overripe) 

Heat the bacon-fat in a frying-pan and add the dried beef 
(unfreshened) picked into smaU pieces. Frizzle for two or 
three minutes, then transfer the beef to a hot platter and 
put the bananas cut in halves crosswise and then lengthwise 
in the frying-pan. Do not allow them to cook, but turn al- 
most immediately, letting them stand only long enough to 
heat through. Arrange around the beef. dezand, fla. 



106 Good HousBKEacpiNo's Book of 



DINNER PIE 

1 pound beef liyer 1 small onion 

2 slices bacon 3 tablespoonfuls flour 
5 medium potatoes 2 teaspoonf uls salt 

2 cupf uls boiling water 

Cut the liver into strips and parboil five minutes in boilintf 
water to cover. Drain and roll in flour. Fry the bacon 
crisp, remove, and Baut6 the liver in the bacon fat until nicely 
browned. Remove the liver and arrange in a casserole. Add 
the boiling water to the fat in the pan and stir until well 
blended. Cut the bacon into small pieces and lay over the 
liver. Put the potatoes and onions through a food-chopper 
and mix with the rest of the flour and salt. Spread over the 
liver, pouring the gravy over all. Cover and bake in a hot 
oven until the liver and potato are thoroughly cooked. The 
potatoes may be cooked, mashed, and placed on top, if pre- 
ferred. lOLWAUKEE, WIS. 

ENGLISH HASH 

3 tablespoonfuls olive-oil 3 cupfuls boiled rice 
1 small onion chopped 1 teaspoonf nl salt 

Yz pound chopped raw beef V^ teaspoonful pepper 

Put oil in frying-pan. When very hot add the beef and 
stir with a fork until it is seared, then add the rice, onion, 
and seasoning; cook until the meat is thoroughly done, stir- 
ring all the time. Serve at once. WASHiNoroNy pa. 



PIRELESS BAKED HAM 
1 medium-sized ham Cloves 

Wipe the ham carefully and place in the largest fireless 
cooker kettle. Cover with cold water nearly to the top of the 
kettle. Bring to a boil and boil rapidly for one-half hour. 
Clamp the kettle cover on tightly and place immediately in 
the cooker. Leave in the fireless cooker for five hours. Re- 
move the kettle from the cooker, uncover and allow the meat to 



Becipbs and Household Discoveries 107 

cool in the liquid. Pour off the liquor and dry the ham thor- 
oughly ; trim it neatly, removing the outside skin. Stick the 
surface of the ham with v^^hole cloves about an inch apart. 
Place the ham in the fireless kettle, being sure that it is 
very dry. Heat two radiators: if soapstone to 550^ P., if 
metal to 600° F. Place one in the bottom of the cooker well, 
place the kettle containing the ham on top of that and cover 
with the second heated radiator. At the end of two hours, 
remove the ham and serve. new york, n. y. 



HOMINY AND SAUSAGE, IIARYLAND STYLE 

2 cupfuls hot cooked hominy % pound small sausages or san- 

3 thin slices bacon sage meat 

Place hominy in a shallow greased baking dish, filling it 
about two-thirds full. Arrange in a regular design over the 
top thin slices of sausage meat or small sausages cut in halves. 
Place the bacon over all. Bake until sausage and bacon are 
cooked and brown. Serve for breakfast, luncheon, or supper. 

concord, mass. 

HUNGARIAN GOULASH 

1 dozen onions 3 teaspoonf uls salt 

Paprika to make pink (about % 3 pomids stew meat, preferably 
teaspoonfol) beef 

% cupful butter 

Chop the onions fine, and cook them in the butter till they 
are well browned. Cut the meat in pieces, but do not dry 
it after washing, so that there will be enough moisture to 
make gravy. Add the salt and paprika, put all in a cas- 
serole, and cook very slowly for two and a half or three 

hours. NEW YORK, N. T. 

JELLIED BEEP 

5 or 6 pounds shank of beef Cold water nearly to cover 

^2 teaspoonful pepper 2 teaspoonf uls salt 

Order the bone chopped in medium-sized pieces. Almost 
cover with cold water. Bring to boiling-point, let it boil for 



108 Good Housekeeping's Book of 

ten to fifteen minutes, and cook oyemight in the fireless 
cooker. In the morning chop the meat in small pieces, re- 
duce the liquor to one and one-half cupfuls, add the season- 
ings, combine with the meat, and pack into molds or jars. 
Set in a cool place until solidified. If desired a tablespoon- 
ful of vinegar and one teaspoonful of onion juice may be 
added to the cooking water. Brooklyn, n. y. 

LAMB-CHOPS WITH GREEN PEPPERS 

2 pounds lamb-chops 1 cupful canned tomato 

3 tablespoonfuls butter 1% cupfuls stock 

2 small onions, minced 1 teaspoonful curry-powdew 

2 green peppers, chopped Salt and pepper 

IV^ tablespoonfuls flour 

Fry the onions and the chopped peppers in the butter till 
tender; add the tomatoes, stock, and seasoning and thicken 
with the flour, moistened with a little cold water. Broil the 
chops slightly, season, lay them in a baking-dish, pour over 
the sauce, and bake ten minutes in a hot oven. Serve with 
thimbles of rice. Stamford, conn. 

MOCK SWEETBREADS 

1 pound fresh tripe 2 cupfuls rich white sauce 
Vinegar Bounds of toast 

Clean tripe very thoroughly, boil in water to cover for sev- 
eral hours until very tender. Put in cold water, add a very 
little vin^ar, pull oflf any loose skin, then cut in dice. Re- 
heat in the white sauce, which should be well seasoned. Use, 
some white stock in making the sauce if possible. Put on 
rounds of toast and serve very hot. conoobd, mass. 

MUTTON LOAP 

2 pounds lean mutton, chopped 2 eggs 

1 cupful stale bread-crumbs 2 teaspoonfuls salt 

y^ cupful melted butter Few grains cayenne pepper 

Juice % lemon 

The best way to procure the mutton is to purchase a fore- 
quarter, and grind the meat at home. The bones and trim- 



BsciPES AND Household Discoveries 109 

mings will make an excellent stew. Add the in^edients in 
the order in which they are mentioned, beating the eggs 
slightly. Form into a loaf, place in a baking-pan, and pour 
in a little hot water. Bake three-quarters of a hour in a 
moderate oven, basting frequently. Serve hot with buttered 
peas and a highlyrseasoned brown sauce made from the drip- 
pings in the pan. cabthaqe, mo. 



it 



MY MEAT CAKES'' 



% pomid chopped meat V4, teaspoonfnl pepper 

1 cnpfnl cooked rolled oats Dash Worcestershire sauce 

1 small onion, chopped About % cupful hot water 
% green pepper, chopped 1 egg 

2 teaspoonfuls salt 2 tablespoonfuls milk 

2 or 3 tablespoonfuls drippings About 1 cupful com flakes 

1 tablespoonf ul flour 

Mix well the meat, oats, onions, green pepper, salt, and pep- 
per. Form in croquette shape, roll in beaten egg diluted with 
the milk, then in toasted com flakes crushed. Place in a pan 
with drippings, cover, and cook quickly if the meat is already 
/•-ooked; if not, broil gently so as not to brown too quickly. 
Add the flour to the juice in the pan, the hot water, and the 
Worcestershire sauce. Serve with or over the cakes. This 
is enough to serve four. milwaukeb, vns. 



NEW ENGLAND BOILED DINNER 

4 to 6 pounds corned beef 1 large turnip 

1 cabbage 8 medium-sized potatoes 

4 to 6 carrots 6 to 8 beets 

3 to 4 parsnips Onions, if desired 

Place a piece of fancy brisket or some other preferred cut 
of corned beef in a large kettle. Cover with hot water if the 
meat was left in brine only over night; otherwise use cold. 
Allow to simmer for three to four hours, depending upon the 
size of the piece. About one to one and one-half hours before 
serving time add the carrots, parsnips, and turnips. The 
exact time allowed will depend upon the size of the vege- 
tables. Carrots and turnips will require a longer time than 



110 QooD HousEKxaspiNQ's Book of 

parsnips. If the carrots and parsnips are not too lar^e, 
leave them whole; otherwise split them. Yellow turnips 
should be cut in thick slices, which in turn should be cut in 
halves. Cut the cabbage in quarters and place in a kettle 
three-quarters of an hour before serving. One-half hour be- 
fore serving add the potatoes. The beets and onions, if de- 
sired, should be boiled separately. The cabbage and beets 
are usually served in separate dishes while the other vegetables 
are served on the same platter as the meat. Onions, if used, 
are served separately. The vegetables that are left over are 
combined with some of the meat in the making of ''calico 

hash." HAVEBHILIiy MASS* 



NEW LAMB STEW 

3 pounds Iamb from the fore- 1 can tomato soup 
quarter 1 small bottle olives 

% cupful rice 

Cover the lamb with hot water and cook one hour. Add 
the rice and boil one hour longer. Slice the olives and add, 
together wiQx the soup, to the lamb. Serve hot. 

SPBINGFIELDy KASS. 



NEW POT ROAST 

2 pounds beef % pound prunes 

1% pounds potatoes % cupful molasses 

1 cupful dry beans ^ cupful sirup 

1 tablespoonful salt ^ teaspoonful pepper 

Soak the beans over night in water to cover; drain in the 
morning, cover again with water, and bring very slowly to 
a boil. When the skins begin to loosen, drain. Select chuck, 
bottom round, or any similar cut of beef. Brown the meat 
on all sides and place it in a large roasting-pan ; about it 
place the potatoes pared and cut in one and one-half inch 
slices, the prunes (which have been washed thoroughly), the 
beans prepared as above, the molasses^ sirup, seasoning, and 
water enough to cover all the vegetables well. Cover and cook 
in a moderate oven for about ti^ree hours. IjANCASTeb^ pa. 



Begipbs and Household Discoveries 111 



OXTAIL AND SPAGHETTI 

1 ox-tail % tablespoonful salt 

% pound spaghetti ^ teaspoonful white pepper 

1 medium-sized onion ^ teaspoonful paprika 

I cupful canned tomatoes Few grains cayenne pepper 

% cupful dry crumbs 

Separate the ox-tail at the joints and cook it gently, in 
water to cover, until it is very tender. About three hours' 
cooking will be required. Remove the ox-tail, bring the stock 
to the boiling point, add the salt and spaghetti, broken into 
fihort lengths. Cook the spaghetti until it is tender. Then 
add the meat cut from the bones and chopped, the onion 
minced, the tomatoes, and the pepper. Place all in a greased 
baking-dish, cover thinly with the crumbs, and bake three- 
quarters of an hour. sr. louis, ho. 



PLANKED CORNED BEEP HASH 

Corned beef, chopped very finely Salt 
Cold boiled potatoes, chopped Pepper 

very finely 4 to 6 ^gs 

1 tablespoonful green pepper, Paprika to taste 

chopped Butter or margarin 

Hot milk 

Chop the corned beef very fine and mix it with twice its 
quantity of cold boiled potatoes, likewise finely chopped. 
For the small-sized plank, six cupfuls of hash will be suffi- 
cient. Add one tablespoonful of chopped green pepper, salt, 
pepper, and paprika to taste. If the mixture seems too 
stiff, moisten with a little hot milk and melted margarin. 
Make a mound of the hash in the center of the hot plank. 
Flatten it slightly and make several indentations on the sur- 
face. In each of these break an egg. Sprinkle the surface 
with salt, pepper, and bits of butter or margarin. Cook un- 
der a low broiler flame or in a slow oven until the eggs are 
set and the hash is browned and heated through. To serve, 
sprinkle the top with finely chopped parsley and arrange 
slices of cucumber pickle around the edge. new yobk, n. y. 



112 Good Housekeeping's Book of 



POEK-CHOPS A L'INDIENNB 

2 tablespoonfuls melted butter 1 tablespoonful walnut catchup 
1 tablespoonful chili sauce 1 teaspoonf ul prepared mustard 

1 tablespoonful Woieestenshire % teaspoonf ul salt 
sauce Dash cayenne pepper 

Mashed potatoes 

Mix together the butter, chili sauce, Worcestershire sauce, 
walnut catchup, mustard, salt, and cayenne. Pan-broil six 
lean pork-chops slightly on both sides, then gash them with a 
sharp knife and place in a dripping-pan, pouring the sauce 
oyer them. Bake in a hot oven until the chops are done. Mash 
the potatoes well, beating them to a delicate, creamy whiteness, 
and form them into a pointed mound on a round platter. 
Arrange the chops pyramid fashion about the potatoes wLth 
the bones pointing upward in the center. Garnish with a ring 
of finely-chopped parsley and scatter some of the parsley over 
the potatoes. Philadelphia, pa. 



PORK-CHOPS WITH DEESSINQ 

1% pounds pork-chops 3 cupf uls stale bread-crumbs 

1 onion % teaspoonful pepper 

3 tablespoonfuls butter 1 teaspoonful poultry-seasoning 

1 egg 1^ teaspoonfuls salt 

Place pork-chops in a dripping-pan, tsoak the crumbs in 
warm water to moisten, squeeze dry, and add the onion 
ground and the other ingredients ; put a mound of the dress- 
ing on each chop, set a slice of onion on top of each, and dot 
the onion with butter. Put a little water in the pan and bake 
in a moderate oven till the meat is tender, about an hour. 

EIVEBSIDE, B. I. 



POETO EICAN POT EOAST 

3 pounds bottom round of beef 1 large onion 

1 small bottle stuffed olives 1 pint canned tomatoes 

y^ pound salt pork 2 teaspoonfuls salt 



Beoipes and Household Discoveries 113 

Make small slits or holes with a sharp knife on each side 
of the roast. Cut the salt pork in small strips an inch long 
and stuff the holes alternately with these and the stuffed olives. 
Try out a piece of suet in a heavy kettle, slice the onion, fry 
it in this, then remove all bits of onion and suet, brown the 
roast on all sides, and then add a half -pint of boiling water 
and the tomatoes. Season when half done. Simmer for three 
hours, keeping as little liquid in the kettle as possible. 
Thicken the gravy with flour and cold water mixed to a paste. 

HACKENSACK, N. J. 

POT ROAST 

4 pounds beef chuck or bottom 2 teaspoonf uls salt 
round 1 teaspoonful Worcestershire 

1 tablespoonful drippings sauce 

3 tablespoonf uls butter % teaspoonful pepper 

3 tablespoonfuls flour Juice % lemon 

3 cupfuls cold water 

Dredge both sides of the meat with flour, and brown each 
side in a hot spider in which the tablespoonful of dripping 
has been melted. Eeinove to an earthen casserole and pour 
over the meat the following sauce: In the hot spider melt 
the butter and blend with it the flour, adding the water grad- 
ually. Cook until thickened and smooth, and add the sea- 
sonings. Pour over the meat and cook for three hours in a 
Blow oven. If the piece of meat is thick, cook longer. 

NANTUCKET, MASS. 

POT ROAST OP VEAL 

4 pounds rump of veal 3 diced carrots 

2 ounces suet 2 teaspoonf uls salt 

1 pint stewed tomatoes % teaspoonful pepper 

Try out the beef drippings in an iron kettle and remove 
the cracklings. Put in the meat and brown it slowly, taking 
care not to use too much heat, as that will make it stick and 
burn. When properly colored, remove from the pot, season, 
and add the rest of the ingredients to drippings. Pour in a 
pint of boiling water or stock, replace the meat, and put in the 



114 Good Housekeeping's Book of 

bones. Cover tightly and cook slowly from three to four 
honrs. When meat is tender remove and let it cool slightly, 
BO that it will not fall apart when cut. Thicken the gravy 
with a tablespoonful of flour or corn-starch mixed with cold 
water, and allow it to boil for five minutes, then strain and 
season it with a half-teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce. A 
small shoulder of veal, boned and rolled, can be used in this 

way. NEW YORK, N. Y. 



POT ROAST WITH VEGETABLES 

4 pomids beef chuck or bottom % teaspoonful pepper 
romid 1 cupful celery, cut in small 

1 Spanish onion pieces 

4 tomatoes 1 tablespoonful drippings 

2 sweet green or red peppers 4 tablespoonf uls flour 
1 pint hot water 2 teaspoonf uls salt 

Dredge the meat with flour, and brown each side in a hot 
spider in which the drippings have been melted. Place in 
casserole and surround with the vegetables. Put seasonings 
in the spider, add the hot water, and pour over meat. Place 
casserole in oven and cook four hours. Thicken gravy with 
the flour mixed with cold water to pour. Canned tomatoes and 
peppers may be used. nantuckst, mass. 



QUICK BEEP A LA MODE 

2 pounds round of beef 2 teaspoonf uls salt 

5 medium-sized onions % teaspoonful pepper 

y^ cupful butter or beef drip- 4 cloves 
pings 2 tablespoonf uls flour 

1 pint stewed tomatoes 

Slice onions and cook till yellowed in the fat. Add the 
cloves and the beef cut in cubes, and fry till browned. Then 
add a pint of boiling water, the tomatoes, and seasoning, and 
simmer for an hour and a half. When ready to serve, thicken 
the gravy with the flour moistened in a little cold water. 

MISSOULA, MONT. 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 115 



SALT PORK WITH CREAM GRAVY 

^ ponnd mixed salt pork 1^ cupfuls milk 

% cupful flour Ys teaspoonful pepper 

Slice the salt pork thinly and dip each slice in flour. Rub 
orer a hot frying-pan with the pork rind and fry the slices 
of pork until they are golden brown and crisp. Remove to 
a hot platter. Pour off all but two tablespoonfuls of the fat, 
add the rest of the flour, cook until bubbling and add the 
milk gradually, stirring constantly. Cook until thickened, 
add the pepper, and pour over the fried pork. Serve at once 
with baked potatoes. Brooklyn, n. t. 



SAUSAGE AND BANANAS 

1^ pounds country sausage 3 large firm bananas 

V^ sweet green pepper 

Form sausage into cakes and roll in flour. Cut bananas in 
half lengthwise and dip in flour, or in egg and cracker- 
crums. Fry sausage until brown, pour off nearly all the 
fat, then put in the bananas and fry until a delicate brown. 
Serve on hot platter with bananas surrounding the sausage 
and garnish with strips of sweet green pepper. 

plainfield, n. j. 



SAUSAGE LOAF 

2 pounds round or flank steak 1 teaspoonful Worcestershire 

1 pound ham sauce 

1 teaspoonful ground mace 2 teaspoonfuls salt 

4 enpfuls soft bread-crumbs 1 teaspoonful ground cloves 

Pat the steak and ham through a meat chopper and mix 
well. Add the bread-crumbs and seasoning. Roll in the 
form of a Bologna sausage, sew in a muslin bag, and steam 
for two hours. Serve cold, cut into thin slices. Halifax, n. s. 



116 QooD HonsEE30SPiNG's Book of 



SAUTED PICKLED TRIPE 

1 pound piekled tripe 6 strips salt poik 

Com-meal 

Select honeycomb tripe, cut in diamond shaped pieces the 
right size for a serving, dip in corn-meal and brown quickly 
in pork fat obtained from trying out the pork strips. Serve 
the pork with the tripe in crisp brown strips, and accom- 
pany with mealy baked potatoes. gonoobd, mass. 



SAVORY CHICKEN FRICASSEE 

1 f onr-poond chicken % teaspoonf ul summer savory 

3 medium-sized onions Vz teaspoonf ul sage 

1 pimiento Vz teaspoonful curry-powder 

y^ cupful minced ham 1^ teaspoonfuls salt 

y^ teaspoonful pepper 

Put legs, neck, wings, and giblets on the bottom of stew- 
pan; chop together the pimiento, ham, and onions, and 
sprinkle it over this layer. Dust on a little of the pepper 
and salt, place the remainder of the chicken on this, cover with 
boiling water, set lid on tight, and simmer slowly one hour. 
The gravy should be thickened with flour, a tablespoonful 
of flour wet in a little cold water being used to each cupful 
of broth. This is also weU adapted to casserole cookery. 

NEW YOSKy N. Y. 



SLICED LAMB WITH ONION SAUCE 

Cold sliced lamb Juice % lemon 

3 large onions % teaspoonful salt 

% tablespoonf ul Worcestershire 1 tablespoonful margarin 
sauce % teaspoonful curry-powder 

Speck pepper 

Slice onions and lay them in the bottom of a saucepan; 
add the lemon juice. Lay the cold lamb, cut in slices, on 
this bed of onions and cover the saucepan tightly. Cook 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 117 

one hour over a very slow fire. Then add the margarin rolled 
in flonr, Worcestershire sance, curry-powder, and season- 
ing. Cook five minutes longer and serve. This recipe serves 

four. NEW YOBK, N. Y. 



SOMEBVILLB MEAT LOAF 

1 pound flank or round steak 1 egg 

1 cnpful suet 2 tablespoonfuls horseradish 

2 small onions % teaspoonf ul dry mustard 

1 cupful soft bread-crumbs 2 tablespoonfuls minced green 

2 teaspoonfuls salt pepper 
Worcestershire sauce % cupful tomato catchup 

Chop meat, suet, and onion fine. Add bread-crumbs, egg 
fdightly beaten, and all other ingredients except catchup. 
Pack into a greased bread-pan. Cover the top of the loaf 
with tomato catchup and bake one hour in a moderate oven. 
This loaf can be made with left-over meat and is delicious 
hot or cold. duluth, hinn. 



SWISS STEAK WITH WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE 

3 pounds bottom round steak V^ teaspoonf ul celery salt 

1 tablespoonful Worcestershire Small piece suet 

sauce 2 teaspoonfuls salt 

Flour y^ teaspoonful pepper 

% teaspoonful mustard 

Wipe the steak carefully, dust on the salt and pepper, rub 
in as much flour as it will take up, at least a cupful, fry out 
the suet, add the mustard, and brown the steak in it on both 
sides. Almost cover with boiling water, boil rapidly for five 
minutes, then reduce the heat and simmer for three hours, or 
cook for three and a half hours in the fireless cooker. More 
water may be added if necessary while it is cooking. Just 
before serving, add the celery salt and Worcestershire sauce 
to the gravy, which should be rich, thick, and very brown, 
and i^ould not need additional flour. Chopped mushrooms 
may. be added to the sauce if desired. Indianapolis, ind. 



118 Good Housbkebping's Book of 



THE WAY I FEY CHICKEN 

Chicken Butter 

Lard Milk 

Salt Flour 

Dress, disjoint, and salt the chicken, then drain it and flour 
each piece thoroughly. Melt enough lard in a large skillet 
a little more than to cover the bottom, and cook the chicken 
rapidly with the skillet covered, until light brown. Turn each 
piece, place bits of butter on each, replace the lid, and cook 
until it is a nice golden-brown; then place the chicken in a 
tightly covered pan and steam for two hours, or till ready to 
serve. Make a gravy in the pan in which the chicken was 
fried, using milk instead of water. MmoLETOWN, ind. 

TO USB LEFT-OVER MUTTON 

Cold mutton Juice of Yz lemon 

3 large onions Vz teaspoonf nl salt 

Yz tablespoonful Worcestershire 1 tablespoonful butter 
sauce % teaspoonful curry-powder 

Speck pepper 

Slice onions and lay them in the bottom of a saucepan; 
add the lemon- juice. Lay the cold mutton, cut in slices, "on 
this bed of onions and cover the saucepan tightly. Cook one 
hour over a very slow fire. Then add the butter rolled in 
flour, Worcestershire sauce, curry-powder, and seasoning. 
Cook five minutes longer and serve. lawbence, mass. 

TRIPE A LA CREOLE 

1% pounds white honeycomb 6 peppercorns 

tripe 4 whole allspice 

2 tablespoonfuls fat 2^ teaspoonfuls salt 

2 small onions, sliced fine 1 teaspoonful sugar 

1 red pepper; chopped fine Vs teaspoonful pepper 

1 green pepper, chopped fine 1 quart stewed tomatoes 

1 small bit whole mace % teaspoonful baking-soda 

Wash the tripe in three waters, using the baking-soda in 
the last. Then boil the tripe until tender, about one and one- 



Becifes and Household DiscovERiEd 119 

lialf hours, and cut with scissors in very fine strips. Brown 
the onions in the fat. Add the peppers, spices, seasonings^ 
and tomatoes. Then add the tripe and simmer about twenty 
minutes. Serve hot with boiled rice. mew yoek, n. y. 



TRIPE OYSTERS 

1 pomid fresh tripe Pepper 

Salt 1 beetten egg 

Fiae bread or cracker cmmbs 2 tablespoonfuls cold water 

Glean honeycomb tripe very particularly and simmer it for 
one hour in water to cover. Let it get cold, sprinkle with 
salt and pepper, and cut it in oblongs the size of an oyster. 
Dip these in fine crumbs, then in beaten egg to which the 
water has been added, then in crumbs again. Fry in very 
hot fat until brown. Serve with a border of cold slaw, or 
slices or points of lemon with finely chopped parsley sprinkled 
over them. oongobd, mass. 



TRIPE ROLL 

Tripe V2 pound cooked sausage-meat 

1 pint riced white potatoes 1 tablespoonf ul sausage or bacon 
% chopped onion fat 

1 egg 4 teaspoonfols salt 

Purchase one and one-fourth pounds honeycomb tripe. Trim 
to a rectangular shape. Save the remainder for sc^dloped 
tripe. Boil tripe until very tender and drain. Add three tea- 
spoonfuls salt five minutes before taking from the fire. Blend 
one and one-fourth cupfuls of potatoes, one teaspoonful salt, 
the meat, egg, and onion and spread on the honeycomb side 
of the tripe. Boll, fasten with toothpicks. Spread the remain- 
ing potatoes on top and brush the entire roll with the sausage 
fat. Place in a covered baking-dish about the size of the roll 
and bake in a moderate oven one-half hour. Remove cover 
and quickly brown the top. Place on a hot platter and let 
stand on the stovenshelf five minutes before serving. Slioe 
witib a sharp knife. Cooked, well-seasoned, chopped meat 
may be used in place of the sausage. maklbobo, masSs 



Pies 



APPLE-LEMON PIE 

2 cnpf nk chopped apples 2 eggs well beaten 

% capful ground soda crackers 2 tablespoonfuls melted batter 
Grated rind and juice 2 lemons 1% cupfuls sugar 

Pastry 

Mix together the apples, crackers, lemons, eggs, butter, and 
sagar in the order given. Then use as a filling for pies made 
with doable crusts, baking for about thirty minutes. This 
makes two small pies or one large one. tbinidad, cou). 



APPLE PIE WITH CREAM CHEESE 

1 cupful whipped cream % small cream cheese 
Pastxy Apple sauce 

Line a deep pie-plate with pastry and fill with tart, smooth 
iapple sauce. Bake without a top crust and when cold cover 
with the whipped cream to which you have added the cream 
cheese pressed through a ricer. If adept with the pastry- 
tubes, this cream may be arranged in some fanciful form, 
which will add greatly to the attractiveness of the pie. 

PHUjADiOLPHIA, PA. 

BANBURY TARTS 

2 cupfuls raisins chopx)ed 2 cupfuls water 
2 lemons 2 cupfuls sugar 
2 tablespoonfuls flour Flaky pastry 

Slice the lemons, remove the seeds, and cook the lemons 
till tender in the water in a double-boiler; then put them 

120 



Becipes and Household Discovebies 121 

tbrough the food-chopper. Put the raisins and lemons in 
the water in which the lemons were cooked, add the sugar, 
and thicken with the flour dissolved in a little cold water. 
Keep at least twenty-four hours before using. (If stored in 
a glass jar, it will keep for several days.) In making the 
tarts, cut the paste into rounds with a large biscuit-cutter, 
put on a teaspoonful of filling, fold over like a turnover, 
pinch together, and bake. They will keep in a tin box for a 
long time. ansonia, conn. 



BLACK-CAP RASPBERRY PIE 

3 to 4 CTipfuls black-cap rasp- % teaspoonful cimiamon, if de- 
berries sired 
% cupful sugar 2 tablespoonfuls fine craeker- 

2 tablespoonfuls butter crumbs 

Flaky pastry 

Line a deep pie-plate with pastry and sprinkle on one 
tablespoonful of the crumbs, half the butter, cut in bits, and 
part of the sugar, mixed with the cinnamon, if the latter is 
used. Pill the plate full of berries and finish with the re- 
mainder of the butter, crumbs and sugar. Moisten the lower 
crust with cold water, set on the top crust, press the edges 
firmly together, and bind with a strip of cheese-cloth, wet in 
cold water to prevent the escape of juices. Bake half an 
hour in a moderate oven. Canned berries may be substi* 
tuted. wiNSTED, conn* 

BUTTER-SCOTCH PIE I 

3 tablespoonfuls butter 1 cupful brown sugar 
VA cupf uls scalded milk 1 egg 

1 tablespoonful corn-starch 1 tablespoonful powdered sugar 

Pastry Few drops of vanilla 

Line a deep pan with pastry and fill with a mixture made as 
follows: Melt together the butter and the brown sugar. Cook 
till a rich brown, then add the scalded milk. Simmer for a 
few minutes, or until the sugar is dissolved, and whip in the 
yolk of the egg beaten to a cream with the corn-starch. Bake 
till the custard is set and spread with a meringue made of 



122 Good Housekeeping's Book of 

the egg-white whipped with the powdered sugar. Flavor 
both pie and meringue with a few drops of vanilla. 

PHILADBLPHU, PA. 

BUTTER-SCOTCH PIE II 

1 enpful brown sugar 2 tablespoonfuls cold water 

1 eupful hot water 1 tablespoonf al butter 

2 tablespoonfuls flour 3 eggs 

1 tablespoonf ul granulated sugar Few grains salt 

Flaky pastry 

Bake a shell of flaky pastry. In the meantime make a fill- 
ing as follows: Combine the brown sugar and hot water, 
bring to the boiling-point, and thicken with the flour and salt 
mixed with the cold water ; beat in the butter and then pour 
the mixture onto the egg-yolks well beaten. Pour this into the 
i^ell, top with a meringue made of the e^-whites and the 
remaining sugar, and let the pie stand in a slow oven for 
fifteen minutes to finish cooking. hyannis, mass. 

CHELSEA PIES 

(Individual) 

2 tablespoonfuls currants or 1 teaspoonf ul sugar 
seedless raisins ^ teaspoonf ul butter 

Pastry 

Cut rounds about the size of a small saucer from plain pie- 
crust. In the middle of each put the currants or seedless 
teisins, sugar, and butter. Wet the edges and gather up like 
a bag. Pinch the edges together, turn over, and roll gently 
with a rolling-pin till the currants begin to prick through on 
the top side. Bake in a hot oven and serve either warm or 

cold. BAU GLAIBE, WIS. 

COCOA MERINGUE PIE 

% eupful cocoa % teaspoonful salt 

2 tablespoonfuls corn-starch 2 eggs 

1 pint boiling milk ^ teaspoonful vanilla 

% cupful sugar Pastry-shell 



Becipbs and Household Discoveries 



123 



Mix thoroughly the cocoa, sugar, corn-starch, salt and boil- 
ing milk. Cook in a double-boiler till thick, stirring all the 
time. Kemove from the fire and add the yolks of the eggs 
well beaten, then cook a few minutes longer. Flavor with 
vanilla, and turn into a previously baked pastry-shell. Cover 
with a meringue and brown delicately. Serve very cold. 

PHILADELPHIA, PA. 

LEMON APPLE PIE 



2 cupfuls chopped apples 
1 cupful sugar 
% cupful water 



1 egg well beaten 
Juice and grated rind 1 lemon 
V2 cupful rolled crackers 
Plain pastry 

Mix all ingredients together and pour into a pie plate lined 
with pastry. Cover with a top crust, and bake in a hot oven. 

GREENWICH, CONN. 



LEMON PIE 



2 eggs 
1 lemon 

1 cupful sugar 

2 tablespoonfuls flour 



1 tablespoonf ul butter 
y^ teaspoonful salt 
1 cupful milk 
Flaky pastry 



Beat the egg-yolks until thick. Add the juice and grated 
rind of the lemon and the sugar mixed thoroughly with the 
flour and salt. Blend togetheT well and add the milk and 
the butter melted. Fold in the egg-whites beaten until they 
are stiff and dry. Pour into a pie plate lined with flaky pas- 
try. Bake about one-half hour. Have the oven hot enough 
at first to set the rim, then reduce the heat, los an6^eles, cal. 



LOS ANGELES PIE 



1 cupful orange juice 

2 eggs 

H cupful granulated sugar 
y^ teaspoonful salt 
^ cupful chopped nuts 



2y2 tablespoonfuls flour 
1% teaspoonfuls butter 
6 tablespoonfuls sugar for mer- 
ingue 
Flaky pastry 



124 Good Housekeeping's Book of 

Bake in a pastry-shell on an inverted pie-tin, or glass pie- 
plate not inverted. While baking prepare the filling. Mix 
together the sugar and flour, add the butter, the egg-yolks, 
and, slowly, the orange juice. Cook over hot water till thick ; 
cool and add the chopped nuts. Pour this mixture into the 
pastry shell, and top with a meringue using the egg-whites 
and sugar, and flavored with a few drops of lemon or orange 
extract. Brown in an oven heated to 300^P. for fifteen min- 
utes. This makes a small pie. st. petebsbubg, fla. 



MARIA'S LEMON PIE 

1 slice baker's bread, about 1% 1 capful sugar 

inches thick and 3V^ inches Juice and grated rind 1 lemon 

square 2 ^gs 

3 tablespoonfuls butter 1% teaspoonfuls corn-starch 

1 cupful boiling water 1^ tablespoonfuls powdered 

Flalqr pastry sugar 

Pour the boiling water over the bread and let stand until 
the bread is thoroughly soft. Add butter at the same time. 
Turn in the sugar mixed with the corn-starch and beat thor- 
oughly, so that the bread will be completely broken up. Add 
the lemon and the egg-yolks, slightly beaten. Pour into a 
pan lined with pastry and bake about twenty minutes. Cover 
with a meringue made of the egg-whites and one and one- 
half tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. Return to the oven, 
and brown slowly for ten minutes longer, being careful not 
to cool too quicMy. Jamaica plain, mass. 



MINCE PIE 

> 
2 cupf uls chopped meat 1 cupful strong coffee 

4 cupf uls finely chopped tart 1 tablespoonful cinnamon 
apples 1 tablespoonful ground cloves 

1 cupful finely chopped citron 1 tablespoonful nutmeg 

2 cupf uls chopped raisins 1 cupful meat stock 
2 cupf uls currants Pastry 

2 teaspoonfuls salt 1 tablespoonful sugar 

2 cupf uls sugar 1 tablespoonful cream 

1 cupful chopped suet, butter or 2 teaspoonfuls butter 
margarin Few whole seeded raisins 



Beoipss and Household Discoveries 125 

Purchase clear, lean beef and boil until tender, cool in the 
liquor, put through the chopper, and measure out two cup- 
fuls. Add the apples, raisins, currants, citron, salt, suet, 
butter or margarin, sugar, coflfee, ground cloves, cinnamon, 
nutmeg and the meat stock. Simmer all this together for 
about one hour, then seal hot in bottles. It will make about 
five pints. When making the pie, line a deep plate with crust, 
fill with mincemeat, using one quart, and put over the top 
the cream, sugar, a few whole seeded raisins, and the butter 
dotted over the top. Next put on the top crust, score, and 
bake until the crusts are brown. To give it full opportunity 
to become blended this mincemeat should be made well before- 
hand. LAWBENCB, MASS. 

MOCK CHEERY PIE 

2 enpf Ills cranberries 1 cupful boiling water 

2 eupf Ills sugar 1 tablespoonf ul flour 

2 cupfuls raisins 1 teaspoonf ul butter 

Pastry 2 teaspoonf uls vanilla 

Cut cranberries in halves and chop the raisins. Mix to- 
gether and cook for half an hour. Cool, pour into pie-plates 
lined with pastry, form lattice tops of thin strips of paste, 
and bake from fifteen to twenty minutes in a quick oven. 
The fiour can be omitted and the whole cooked to the con- 
sistency of marmalade; this makes a good sandwich filling. 

HAMPTON, VA. 



ONE CRUST PEACH PIE 

6 medium-sized peaches H cupful flour 

% cupful butter 4 tablespoonf uls water 

1 cupful sugar Few grains nutmeg 

Flaky pastry 

Line a deep pie-plate with pastry, sprinkle the bottom with 
one-half of a crumb-like mixture made by rubbing together 
the butter, sugar, and fiour. Lay on this the halved peaches^ 
cut-side down, add the nutmeg and water, sprinkle on the 
remaining crumbs, and bake thirty minutes in a quick oven. 

TBlfiNTON, N. J. 



126 Gkx>D Housekeeping's Book op 



ORANGE PIE 

3 ^gs 1 tablespoonful orange juice 

% enpful sugar 1 tablespoonful butter 

1 orange 3 tablespoonf uls powdered sugar 

% lemon Pastry 

Whip the yolks of the eggs with the sugar, add the juice 
and rind of orange, the juice and rind of the lemon, and the 
butter. Mix thoroughly and place in a pastry-lined pan to 
bake. When done cover with a meringue made of the egg- 
whites, powdered sugar and the orange juice. 

PHILADELPHU, PA* 



PLAIN SQUASH PIE 

1 eupfol sifted squash % cupful brown sugar 

% teaspoonf ul salt 1 teaspoonf ul flour 

^ teaspoonf ul ginger 1 egg 

Y^i teaspoonf ul nutmeg 2 cupf uls milk 

Pastry 

Place the squash in a bowl ; stir into this the brown sugar, 
salt, flour, ginger and nutmeg. Add the egg, slightly beaten, 
and the mSk. Stir well together and pour into a plate lined 
with pastry having a fluted edge. B&e for ten minutes in 
a quick oven to set the rim, and then reduce the heat and 
bake until the filling is firm. This same mixture may be 
poured into a buttered baking-dish and served as a pudding, 
if preferred. bedding, conn. 



PUMPKIN PIE 

2 eupfuls canned pumpkin 1 tablespoonful molasses 

2 eggs 1 teaspoonful salt 

1 tablespocmful flour 1 teaspoonful ginger 

V/z eupfuls milk % cupful sugar 

% teaspoonful cinnamon Speck nutmeg 

Pastry 

Add flour to well-beaten eggs and mix all ingredients thor- 
oughly. Pour into pie-plates filled with pastry having a weU- 



Eecipes and Household Discoveries 127 

fluted edge. This makes one very large thick pie or two 
smaller ones. Squash may be substituted in place of pumpkin 
if desired. east orange, n. j. 



SOUE CJREAM PIE 

1 cupful sour cream % teaspoonf ul salt 
% cupful sugar ^ cupful raisins 

2 egg-yolks 2 egg whites 

^2 teaspoonful cinnamon 6 tablespoonfuls sugar 

y^ teaspoonful cloves Pastry 

Combine the cream and the half cupful of sugar; add the 
egg yolks well beaten, the spices, the salt, and the raisins 
chopped finely. Line a small pie plate with pastry and fill 
with the mixture. Bake in a hot oven long enough to set the 
pastry, and reduce the heat to complete the baking until the 
custard mixture is set. Eemove from the oven and spread 
with a meringue made of the whites stiflCly beaten and the 
sugar added. Brown in a slow oven. clinton, mink. 



SOUR CEEAM PIE WITH DATES 

Plain pastry % teaspoonful salt 

1 cupful chopped dates 1 cupful sugar 

1 cupful sour cream 1 egg 

1 teaspoonful flour 

Beat the egg well and add to it the sugar and flour mixed 
together ; add the cream, dates, and salt. Bake between two 
crusts. This makes enough for one small pie. 

HUTCHINSON, KAN. 



Salads 



ASPARAGUS LUNCHEON SALAD 

2 eupfols cooked asparagus. 2 hard-cooked eggs 

diced Lettuce leaves or cress 

2 cupfuls shredded lettuce Scant teaspoonf ul vinegar 
1 tablespoonful olive-oil Boiled salad dressing 

Mix together the asparagus and shredded lettnee with the 
olive-oil and the vinegar. Add boiled dressing to moisten 
thoroughly, chill, arrange in nests of salad green, and garnish 
with t£e haxd-cooked eggs and additional dressing. 

NEW YORK, N. T. 

BANANA AND CELERY SALAD 

6 small bananas 6 pieces celery 

6 tablespoonfnls peanut butter Lettuce 

% cupful mayonnaise 

Stuff the celery with the peanut butter and then cut into 
small pieces. Arrange on beds of lettuce with the bananas 
either isliced or diced. Serve with mayonnaise dressing. 
Whipped cream may be added to the dressing, if desired. 

FALL BIVEBy HASS. 

BIRD'S NEST SALAD 

3 lai^e tomatoes V2 teaspoonful powdered sage 
About 1 cupful cottage cheese Lettuce leaves or water-cress 
Salt Mayonnaise dressing 

Cut the tomatoes in halves and scoop out slightly. Flavor 
the cottage cheese with the sage and salt, if needed. Then 

128 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 129 

make into balls the size of large marbles. Put three balls 
into each tomato half and arrange the tomato on crisp white 
lettuce leaves, or surround with the delicate leaves of water- 
cress. Serve mayonnaise with this salad. concord, mass. 



BUTTERFLY SALAD, INDIVIDUAL 

I slice camied pineapple % Malaga or Tokay grapes 

1 sUce orange Strips of pimiento 

1 slice apple, unpared Lettuce 

Chopped nuts if desired 

Cut the pineapple-slice in half and place the round edges 
together on the plate on which it is to be served. Over liis 
fit the slice of apple, with the core removed but the skin left 
on. On top of this fit the orange-slice, which has been al- 
lowed to stand with a little sugar for at least fifteen minutes. 
Form the butterfly's body from the grape and a strip of pimi- 
ento and the feelers of pimiento. Garnish with lettuce and 
sprinkle with nut-meats if desired. Mayonnaise, or Italian 
meringue should be passed. calumet^ mich. 



CANDLESTICK SALAD 

6 slices pineapple 1 green pepper 

3 bananas 6 Maraschino cherries 

1 head lettuce Fruit salad dressing 

Coconut 

For each serving, place one slice of pineapple, as the base 
of the candlestick on a leaf of lettuce. Insert one-half a 
banana cut crosswise in the cavity of the slice of pineapple, 
in an upright position. In the side of the banana stick a 
curved strip of green pepper cut about one-eighth inch wide 
to simulate the handle, and on top of the banana place a 
maraschino cherry or a strawberry when in season, keeping it 
in position with a toothpick. Stick a bit of shredded coco- 
nut in the cherry for a wick. Surround the lettuce leaf at 
the base of the candlestick with fruit salad dressing. Serve. 



130 Good Housekeefin«'& Book op 



CABBOT AND APPLE SALAD 

1 cupful prepared apple 1 cupful prepared carrot 

^ cupful mayonnaise Lettuce 

Cut the apple into very thin slices, arrange on lettuce, 
spread with mayonnaise, and sprinkle ground carrot on top. 
Place more dressing in center. san matbo, oal. 



CLUB SALAD 

1% cupfuls shredded cold Mayonnaise 

chicken Lettuce 

12 slices fried haeon, diced Toast Points 

3 tomatoes Parsley 

Arrange individually on salad plates; allow two or three 
lettuce-leaves to each person, place on 1±iem the tomatoes, 
peeled and sliced, then the fried bacon, and a spoonful of 
mayonnaise, and top with the chicken, more mayonnaise, and 
a sprig of parsley. Four or six tiny buttered toast points may 
be used to garnish each salad, being placed spoke-fashipn 
on the plates. habrtsbubq, pa« 

COMBINATION SALAD 

1 cupful celery, cut fine Lettuce 

2 cupfuls apple, cut fine 1 tablespoonful peanut butter 
l^ cupful mayonnaise Raisins 

Mix together the celery, apple, peanut butter, and mayon- 
naise; arrange on leaves of lettuce. Place on top of each 
serving five or six large, seeded raisins. Serve with more 
mayonnaise, if desired. obafton, pa. 

COTTAGE CHEESE SALAD 

1 pound fresh cottage cheese 2 teaspoonfuls salt 

iy2 cupfuls sour cream % teaspoonful pepper 

1 bunch button radishes Few grains cayenne pepper 

1 medium-sized cucumber Paprika 

1 bunch green onions Lettuce 



Becipes and Household Discoveries 131 

Slice the radishes without paring them. Pare the cucum- 
ber and cut in dice. Use the white and very pale green por- 
tions of the onions, peel, and cut in i^ces. Toss the vege- 
tables lightly together to mix them. Add the seasonings to 
the cheese and then add the cream, stirring it in well. TheH 
add the radishes, cucumber, and onions to the cheese mix- 
ture. Chill thoroughly and serve on crisp leaves of lettuce; 
sprinkle with paprika. This recipe will serve eight gener- 
ously. It is an excellent luncheon salad. Chicago, uij. 



COTTAGE SALAD 

% pomid well-seasoned cottage 24 stuffed olives 

cheese 1 cupful boiled dressing 

3 large tomatoes Lettuce 

6 hard-cooked eggs 

Chop the olives fine, mix with the cheese, and form into balls 
about the size of a walnut. Upon each individual plate ar- 
range a bed of shredded lettuce and a large slice of tomato. 
Place three cheese balls on each slice of tomato and top with 
the yolk of a hard-cooked eggy thus forming a little pyramid. 
Sprinkle the chopped egg-white over the salad and pass the 
dressing after the salad is served. yankton, s. dak. 



CUCUMBER AND PINEAPPLE JELLY SALAD 

2 tablespoonf uls granulated gel- V2 teaspoonful salt 

atin 1 cupful diced cucumber 

y^ cupful cold water 1 cupful cauned, shredded pine- 
1 cupful hot water apple 

% cupful vinegar Lettuce 

Juice % lemon % cupful mayomiaise 

y^ cupful sugar %, cupful cream, whipped 

Soak the gelatin in the cold water five minutes, add the hot 
water, and stir until dissolved. Add the sugar, salt, vinegar, 
and lemon juice. When the mixture has begun to set, stir in 
the cucumber and pineapple and pour into wet, individual 
molds. Serve, when stiffened, on crisp lettuce garnished vnth 
mayonnaise dressing to which the whipped cream has been 



132 Good Housekeeping's Book of 

added ; sprinkle with paprika. This jelly may be colored with 
green vegetable coloring, if desired. Minneapolis, minn. 

CUCUMBER SALAD WITH SALMON DRESSING 

1 head lettuce 1 cupful salmon 

2 cucumbers Salt and pepper 

1 onion Boiled salad dressing 

Break apart, wash, and dry the lettuce-leaves, pare the en- 
cumbers, and chill. For individual service, make a bed of 
the lettuce-leaves on the plates and upon them place thin 
slices of cucumber, finely minced onion, salt, and pepper. Put 
salmon into a cold bowl, shred and remove bones ; add to it, 
until right consistency to pour, a sour, highly seasoned boiled 
dressing. Beat thoroughly and place over lettuce and cu- 
cumbers. BUCYBUS, o. 



DATE SALAD 

1 cupful dates 1 cupful diced celery 

Ji cupful ground American 1 cupful diced apples 

cheese 1 tablespoonful lemon juice 

3 tablespoonfuls ground walnut- Boiled salad dressing 

meats Lettuce 

Mix together the cheese and nuts, and stuff the dates, al- 
lowing them to stand several hours. Then slice them, 
sprinkle the apples with lemon juice as soon as cut, add the 
dates with the celery, and mix all thoroughly with boiled 
salad dressing to which has been added an equal quantity of 
sweet or sour whipped cream. Serve in nests of lettuce. 

AUGUSTA, KAN. 



ENDIVE GRAPEFRUIT SALAD 

6 sprigs imported endive 2 ounces crumbled Roquefort 

Scoop^ out pulp V/z grapefruit cheese 

French dressing 

Wash and dry the endive, and arrange on individual plates. 
Heap the grapefruit at the end of the stalks, and sprinkle it 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 133 

with the cheese-crumbs. Pour French dressing over all. If 
necessary, romaine may be substituted for the endive. 

BUFFALO, N. Y. 



PEUIT SALAD WITH PINEAPPLE DRESSING 

6 halved, peeled fresh pears or 1 cupful halved seeded Malaga 

halves of canned pears grapes 

Lettuce Pineapple dressing 

Arrange the pears on nests of lettuce-leaves with the grapes 
at the side and pour pineapple dressing over them. 

pittsfield, mass. 

INDIVIDUAL SARDINE AND TOMATO SALAD 

3 sardines 1 sprig parsl^ 

1 medium-sized tomato 1 teaspoonf ul chopped green 

2 olives pepper or pimiento 
% teaspocmful chopped onion % teaspoonf ul sugar 

2 teaspoonfuls chopped celery or 2 teaspoonf uls thick mayonnaise 
cabbage Shredded lettuce 

Additional mayonnaise 

Peel the tomato, cut off the top, scoop out the inside, and 
mix with one of the olives, chopped, the onion, celery, pepper, 
sugar, and mayonnaise. Return to tomato, and set it in a 
nest of shredded lettuce. Place a spoonful of mayonnaise 
on the top, and sprinkle with the parsley, minced. Surmount 
with the other olive, and lean three sardines against the to- 
mato to give a tent-like appearance. new yobk, n. y. 

ITALIAN EGG SALAD 

4 hard-cooked ^gs Lettuce 

1 cupful cooked dandelion % teaspoonful salt 

greens Vs teaspoonful pepper 

1 small cream or NeufchHtel ^ cupful well-seasoned 
eheese French dressing 

% cupful mayonnaise dressing 

Chop the eggs and greens very fine, separately. Mix them 
together, adding the cheese, salt, pepper, and sufficient Freoudi 



134 QooD Housekeeping's Book of 

dressing to make the right consistency. Chill, form into ballSy 
and lay on a bed of lettuce. Pour any remaining French 
dressing over them and garnish with mayonnaise. 

LOS ANGELES) GAL. 

LETTUCE, CLUB STYLE 

% cupful mayonnaise dressing, 2 hard-cooked eggs, chopped 

stiff Crescents of hot toasted, buttered 

2 tablespoonf uls chili sauce bread 

1 solid head lettuce 

Beat the chili sauce into the mayonnaise. Wash the let^ 
tuce thoroughly, dry, and arrange in the shape of a head on 
a large round platter or in a bowl. Pour the dressing in and 
around the leaves, sprinkle with the eggs chopped fine, and 
garnish with the hot toast. mountain view, okla. 



LETTUCE WITH ROQUEFORT DRESSING 

1 solid head lettuce Vs teaspoonf ul pepper 

% teaspoonf ul salt V^ cupful Roquefort cheese 

3 tablespoonf uls olive-oil 1 tablespoonful vinegar 

Wash the lettuce carefully without breaking the head apart, 
removing only the tough outer leaves. Hold it firmly and cut 
into four or six portions according to the size of the head and 
the number of people to be served. Crisp thoroughly. Mix 
together the seasonings and vinegar, and beat in the olive- 
oil. Blend in the cheese slowly, and pour at once over the let- 
tuce. NEW YORK, N. Y. 

MIXED VEGETABLE AND EGG SALAD 

1 cupful shredded string-beans Watercress 
1 cupful peas Lettuce-heart 

1 cupful shredded cucumber 6 hard-cooked eggs 

% cupful sliced radishes Radish-roses 

Parsley 

Mix together the peas, beans, cucumber, and sliced rad- 
ishes and let stand in a cold place for tiiirty minutes to 



B^ciPES AND Household Discoveries 135 

marinate in French dressing. Halve the hard-cooked eggs 
lengthwise, cut off the lower ends so that they will stand up- 
right, and dip each one in a little tart lemon jelly ; have the 
salad plate very cold and arrange these egg-halves in a cir- 
cle. They should stick at once if the jelly mixture contains 
enough gelatin. Fill in with the vegetable mixture, top with 
a lettuce-heart, and garnish with parsley and radish-roses. 
Pass mayonnaise dressing. new york, n. y. 



MOLDED BEET SALAD 

2 cupfuls tiny beets 2 tablespoonfuls grated horse* 

2 tablespoonfuls vin^ar radish 

^ cupful hot water V^ tablespoonfuls granulated 

1 teaspoonful salt gelatin 

1 teaspoonful sugar % cupful cold water 

1 head lettuce % cupful mayonnaise 

Scrub the beets thoroughly and boil until tender; rub off 
the shin. Add the vinegar, salt, sugar, horseradish, and hot 
water. Let get thoroughly heated through, and then add the 
gelatin which has been softened in the cold water. Pour 
into a shallow pan which has been previously wet with cold 
water. Set away to chill, cut in cubes, and serve on lettuce 
or cress with mayonnaise. This recipe will serve at least 
eight. Large beets may be used and cut into cubes about 
an inch in diameter after cooking. milwaueeib, vns. 



MOLDED CHEESE SALAD 

% cupful heavy cream % cupful grated cheese 

2 tablespoonfuls granulated gel- V^ cupful chopped pimientos 
atin Lettuce 

^ cupful boiling water Mayonnaise or any salad dress* 

3 drops tabasco sauce ing 

y^ teaspoonful mustard H teaspoonful salt 

Soak the gelatin in one-fourth cupful of cold water for 
five minutes, then add the boiling water. Stir until dissolved 
and let cool. When just beginning to set, add the tabasco 
aauce, mustard, salt, cheese, and pimientoes. Beat the cream 



136 Qoojy Housekeeping's Book of 

stiff, fold in the gelatin mixture carefully, and pour all into 
a small baking-powder can, whicli has been wet with cold 
water, to mold. "When stiff, turn out, slice, and serve on 
lettuce with any preferred salad dressing, essex fauls, n. j. 



ORANGE AND DATE SALAD 

1 box dates (14 ounces) 1 cake pimiento cheese 

2 oranges % cupful chopped wahiuts 
Watercress I^ench dressing 

Lemon or orange juice 

Stuff dates with the nuts mixed with the cheese, roll in 
either lemon or orange juice; peel oranges and take all the 
skin off, pull apart, and place alternately with dates on water- 
cress. Serve with French dressing. Stewed prunes and cel- 
ery may be used in place of the dates and nuts for variety. 

TUNKHANNOCK, PA, 



ORANGE AND ONION SALAD 

2 oranges % Spanish onion 

Lettuce iSrench dressing 

Peel and slice oranges; slice onion and mix. Arrange on 
lettuce leaves and serve with French dressing. This will 
serve four generously if the oranges are large. 

MONTREAL, CAN. 



OYSTER SALAD 

12 oysters 3 teaspoonfuls chopped parsley 

1 head lettuce 1 small bunch celery 

3 teaspoonfuls lemon juice Mayonnaise dressing 

Prepare the oysters. Cook in their own juice until the 
edges curl; drain and chill. Lay two oysters on white let- 
tuce leaves on each plate for individual servings, sprinkle 
each with one-half teaspoonful of lemon juice and very finely 
chopped parsley and surround with a ring made of small, 
inch-long julienne strips of white celery. Put a whirl of 



Becipes and Household Discoveries 137 

mayonnaise in the middle of each and serve with thin brown 
bread sandwiches. ooncom>. mass. 



PEANUT-RICE SALAD 

3 tablespoonfnls rice 1 cupful orange juice 

Boiling salted water Cream-cheese balls 

% cupful finely chopped pea- Lettuce 
mits French dressing 

Wash rice; cook ten minutes in boiling salted water. 
Drain, cover with orange juice, and cook in double boiler 
until tender. Cool, mix (using a fork) with the peanuts, 
sprinkle with salt. Arrange with small balls of cream cheese 
on lettuce-leaves, and serve with French dressing. 

STOCKTON, GAIi. 

PECAN SALAD 

1 tablespoonful granulated gela- 4 tablespoonfnls sugar 
tin 12 whole pecan meats 

2 tablespoonfnls cold water % cupful diced celery 
1 cupful boiling water 12 stuffed olives 

% cupful grapefruit juice Lettuce 

Mayonnaise 

Soak gelatin in cold water for five minutes and dissolve it 
with the sugar in the boiling water. Add the grapefruit 
juice ; fill individual molds half full ; place on top a layer of 
sliced olives with a whole pecan meat in the center. Let 
stand until firm. Over this pour more of the jelly mixture 
which has begun to set, and sprinkle the celery on top. Let 
harden. Turn out on beds of lettuce. Garnish with mayon- 
naise and a whole pecsax meat for each salad. DANvn^LE, pa. 

PINEAPPLE SALAD WITH GOLDEN DRESSING 

6 slices canned pineapple Cream or Neuf cbitel cheese 

6 large Marascluno cherries Lettuce-hearts 

Arrange the salad individually ; place a slice of pineapple 
on each nest of lettuce-leaves, sprinkle with the cheese which 



138 Good Housekeeping's Boos of 

has been put through a potato-ricer, and fill the holes in the 
pineapple slices with cherries. Pass golden dressing and 
cheese fingers. This salad is particularly nice for. an after- 
club luncheon, or for dessert for luncheon, dinner, or sup- 
per. JAMAICA PLAIN, MASS. 



POTATO AND CRAB SALAD IN PEPPER CASES 

1 can or 1 cupful crab meat 3 large, sweet, green peppers 

2 cupfuls diced cold boiled po- % cupful boiled salad dressing 
tatoes or mayonnaise 

Juice of % lemon Parsley 

To make the pepper cases cut the peppers in halves length- 
wise; remove aU seeds and white fibrous portions. Immerse 
in boiling water and boil for five minutes; plunge into cold 
water. When cool enough to handle, peel off the thin, paper- 
like skin. Cover with cold water and set in a cold place for 
one hour to crisp. This procedure renders the pepper more 
digestible and also just soft enough to be easily eaten with 
the rest of the salad. Mix the crab meat and potatoes; let 
stand a few minutes before serving, with the lemon juice 
sprinkled over them. Mix with the dressing and serve in 
the boat-shaped cases on individual plates ; garnish each plate 
with a large sprig of parsley or shredded lettuce. 

YANKTON, S. DAK. 



SUMMER SALAD 

1 laige crown summer squash 1 cupful chilled flaked tuna fish 

1 cupful of cold cooked string- 2 tomatoes 

beans, peas, or diced carrots 2 hard-cooked eggs 

1 cupful chopped celery French dressing 

1 minced green pepper Mayonnaise dressing 

1 head lettuce 

Pare th 3 squash, and boil or steam gently until tender, then 
scoop out the seeds and center, and while still warm cover 
with French dressing and allow it to marinate until thor- 
oughly chilled. Then lightly mix together the fish, celery, 
string-beans, and green pepper, and moisten with Freneh 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 139 

dressing. Fill the squash with this mixture and place on a 
bed of lettuce. Lay the sliced tomatoes and hard-cooked 
eggs alternately and overlapping around the edge, and gar- 
nidi the whole with mayonnaise, parsley, or chicory. Finely- 
shredded, crisped lettuce or cabbage may be substituted for 
the celery. new yokk, n. y. 



SUPPER SALAD 

1 cupful cooked chopped liver Lettuce 

1 cupful cottage cheese 1 teaspoonful salt 

1 small can pimientos Dash of onion salt, celery salti 
About 1 cupful mayonnaise and cayenne pepper 

dressing Paprika 

Put liver through the food-chopper, add cottage cheese uid 
mix well with fork ; add seasonings and two tablespoonfuls of 
dressing to bind. Arrange lettuce on plates, place half a 
pimiento on the lettuce ; add the salad mixture shaped in ovals, 
using two teaspoons; garnish with mayonnaise and paprika. 

STOCCTON, CAL. 



TANQO SALAD 

3 xipe juicy pears ^ teaspoonful salt 

Cream or Roquefort cheese V^ teaspoonful mustard 

Lettuce ^ teaspoonful paprika 

^ cupful mayonnaise V4 cupful chili sauce 

y^ cupful olive-oil Pimientos 

1 teaspoonful vinegar Lemon juice 

Pare, halve, and core the pears; squeeze lemon juice over 
them to keep them from discoloring. Place a ball of cream 
cheese or a few cubes of Roquefort cheese in the cavity of 
each half pear. Set these on heart-leaves of lettuce and pour 
the dressing over them. 

For dressing : Mix together the olive-oil, vinegar, salt, mus- 
tard, paprika, and chili sauce ; beat and blend well, then grad- 
ually beat this mixture into the mayonnaise. Garnish the 
salad and dressing generously with julienne strips of pimien- 
tos. Upon opening a can of pimientos^ rinse them in cold 



140 Good Housekeepino's Book op 

water, and dry on cloth, then cut with scissors into strips. 
Large pears canned in halves may be used in this salad. 
Bemove from can and drain well. Stockton, gal. 

TOMATO SLAW 

1 small head cauliflower 1 teaspoonful mustard 

2 tomatoes 1 teaspoonful sugar 

1 green pepper % teaspoonful pepper 
Yolk of 1 egg 1 teaspoonful oil 

% cupful vinegar 1 tablespoonf ul cream 

2 teaspoonfuls salt 

Boil the cauliflower, broken into small pieces until tender. 
Slice the tomatoes thin and cut the peppers into shreds. Set 
in the refrigerator to cool. Combine the oil and seasonings, 
and place over fire until heated throughout. Then add the 
beaten egg-yolk and cook until thick. Allow to cool, and add 
the cream. Just before serving, arrange cauliflower around 
each slice of tomato, placing the shredded pepper across the 
tomato in latticework fashion. Allow one tablespoonf ul of 
the dressing to each serving. Seattle, wash. 

WASHINGTON SALMON SALAD 

IV^ cupf uls flaked cold salmon 1 small onion, minced 

V2 cupful finely cut celery 2 medium-sized tomatoes 

2 tablespoonfuls chopped gre^ Salt and pepper to taste 
pepper Mayonnaise 

Lettuce 

Mix together the salmon, celery, pepper, and onion, add 
mayonnaise to moisten, and season to taste with salt and 
pepper. Peel the tomatoes and either cut them in dice and 
mix them with the salad or slice them and use as a garnisH. 
Arrange on a bed of lettuce-leaves and garnish with a little 
extra mayonnaise. Seattle, wash« 

YELLOW-TOMATO AND CHESTNUT SALAD 

12 yellow tomatoes French dressing 

% cupful diced celery Mayonnaise 

% cupful sliced chestnuts Cress 



Begipes and Household Discoveries 141 

Peel tomatoes after dipping in scalding water, cut in 
halves, and let stand in French dressing for thirty minutes. 
Crisp the celery in cold, salted water and blanch the chest- 
nuts. To do this, put them on to cook in cold water, bring 
to boiling-point, boil five minutes, then remove shells and skin, 
md slice. Mix together the chestnuts and celery, and add a 
little mayonnaise. Form nests of cress on individual plates, 
lay on the tomatoes in the shape of Maltese crosses, and place 
a spoonful of the chestnut-mixture in the center of each serv- 
ing. Pour over the dressing which has been drained from 
the tomatoes, and serve with cream-cheese sandwiches. 

WOaCBSTEB, 2CAS3. 



Salad Dressings 



BLOATBE-PASTB SALAD DBESSING 

1 teaspoonful English bloater V4 teaspoonf ul paprika 

paste 1 tablespoonful capers 

3 tablespoonfuls olive-oil % teaspoonf ul chopped chives 

1 tablespoonful vinegar Vz teaspoonful chopped parsley 

y^ teaspoonful salt Few drops Worcest^hire sauce 

Ys teaspoonful pepper % teaspoonful mustard 

Work the bloater paste and seasoning together; add the 
Worcestershire sauce, the olive-oil, and vinegar. Mix thor- 
oughly and then add the capers, chives, and parsley. Pour 
over crisp lettuce-leaves. palo alto, cau 



BOILBD MAYONNAISE 

3 egg-yolks 3 tablespoonfuls flour 
1 cupful olive-oil % cupful vinegar 

1 cupful boiling water 1 teaspoonful salt 

Ys teaspoonful pepp^ 

Cream together the flour and two tablespoonfuls of the oil* 
Combine the vinegar and water, and pour slowly onto the 
flour and oil, as in making any sauce. Season and boU tiU 
thick. Remove from heat and beat in the egg-yolks, which 
have been barely stirred till creamy. Then whip in the olive- 
oil, a teaspoonful at a time at first, and then more rapidly 
as it thickens. DANVUiLE^ pa. 

CREAM FRENCH DRESSING 

4 tablespoonfuls olive-oil ^ teaspoonful pepper 

2 tablespoonfuls vin^;ar % teaspoonful paprika 
% teaspoonful salt % cupful heavy cream 

142 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 143 

Put first five ingredients together in a covered jar and 
shake thoroughly till emulsified. Beat eream until it begins 
to thicken, then add very gradually the French dressing, 
which should be made first. somebvilijb, mass. 

CREOLE SALAD DRESSING 

% capful olive-oil 3 tablespoonfuls chopped green 

5 tablespoonfuls vinegar peppers 

% teaspoonf ul powdered sugar 1 tablespoonf ul minced onion 
2 tablespoonfuls chopped pimi- % tablespoonful minced parsley 
entos 1 teaspoonf ul salt 

Mix thoroughly, let chill, and shake well before using. . A 
mason-jar is the best utensil for this purpose, and the dress- 
ing may be kept in it for weeks in tiie icebox. It is espe- 
cially good on asparagus, tomatoes, cucumber, or plain let- 
tuce or romaine salad. Washington, d. o. 

CURRY SALAD DRESSING 

% teaspoonful curry powder 1 tablespoonful tarragon vine* 

6 tablespoonfuls olive- or salad- gar or lemon juice 

oil % teaspoonful onion salt 

y^ teaspoonful pepper 

Mix thoroughly all the dry ingredients and the oil, add 
slowly the vinegar to thin. This dressing is especially good 
with cold fish. Washington, d. o. 

DANDELION WITH PENNSYLVANIA DUTCH 

DRESSING 

1 pint young dandeUons V^ cupful vinegar 

2 ounces bacon H cupful water 

1 egg y^ teaspoonful salt 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar 

Wash and drain the dandelions and cut into two-inch 
lengths. Cut the bacon into small cubes and fry it in a fry- 
ing-pan until it is crisp. Beat the egg until light and add 
the sugar, salt, vinegar, and water. Pour this mixture into 
the bacon in the frying-pan, and stir constantly until slightly 



144 Good Houseeeefinq's Book of 

tUckenecL It should be about the consistency of cream. 
While boiling pour over the dandelion and serve at onee. 
This dressing is also excellent served on crisp endive. 

FRXCKVUSUEy PA. 



EGGLESS BOILED SALAD DRESSING 

% teaspoonf ul mustard % teaspoonf ul celery salt 

1 teaspoonful salt 1 tablespoonful flour 

Ys teaspoonful pepper 1 scant tablespoonful sugar 

3 tablespoonf uls vinegar 1 cupful cream 

Mix dry ingredients and add cream. When smooth, tarn 
in boiling vinegar and cook till smooth and creamy. If in- 
convenient to use cream, three-fourths cupful of milk and a 
fourth cupful of melted butter may be used instead. 

HOLTOKB, MASS. 



GOLDEN DRESSING 

% cupful pineapple juice 2 eggs 

y^ cupful orange juice % cupful sugar 

y^ cupful lemon juice % cupful heavy cream 

Heat the fruit juices in the double boiler, beat the eggs 
light, gradually adding the sugar. Combine with the hot 
juice and cook like a custard till the spoon is coated. Re- 
move to a dish of cold water, beat till cold, and then fold in 
the cream whipped stiff. The dressing may be made be- 
forehand, and the whipped cream added just before serving. 
This dressing is suitable to serve with almost any fruit salad. 

JAMAICA PLAIN, MASS. 



PEEBEE SALAD DRESSING 

2 tablespoonfuls peanut butter % teaspoonful salt 

4 tablespoonfuls thin sour cream Vs teaspoonful mustard 

1 tablespoonful lemon juice Speck pepper 

Beat all together. This is especially good with tomato, 
cabbage, or lettuce salad. bedding, conn. 



Becipes and Household Discovebies 145 



PINEAPPLE DRESSING 

Juice from one can of pineapple 2 eggs 

% cupful sugar H cupful whipped cream 

2 tablespoonfuls butter 1 tablespoonful flour 

Heat pineapple juice until just warm, blend together flour 
and butter, add the egg-yolks beaten and the sugar, and then 
the egg-whites whipped stiff. Pour the warm pineapple juice 
into this and stir in a double boiler till thick. When cold 
add the whipped cream. pittsfiedd, mass. 



RUSSIAN MAYONNAISE SALAD DRESSING 

6 tablespoonfuls mayonnaise % teaspoonful chopped capers 

lyi tablespoonfuls chopped iVz teaspoonfuls tarragon vine- 

pimientos gar 

6 sprigs chives, chopped 1^ tablespoonfuls whipped 
8 tablespoonfuls chili sauce cream 

Mix in order given. yoneebs, n. t. 

SAVORY SALAD DRESSING 

4 tablespoonfuls olive-oil % tablespoonful Worcestershir6 

1 tablespoonful tarragon vinegar sauce 

1^ tablespoonfuls tomato catch- Salt to taste 

up Red and black pepper to taste 

Combine ingredients, beat well, and use at once. 

OOLOBADO springs, COLO, 

SOUTHERN COOKED SALAD DRESSING 

3 eggs 3 tablespoonfuls salad oil 

1 tablespoonful sugar 1 teaspoonful black pepper 

1 tablespoonful salt 1 cupful milk 

1 tablespocHiful mustard 1 cupful vinegar 

Mix the sugar, salt and mustard together; add the oil, the 
eggs well beaten, the milk and the vinegar. Cook until thick 



146 Recipes and Household Discoveries 

in a double^boiler, stirring constantly. This is especially good 
on lettuce and tomatoes or any vegetable salad. 

COLUMBIA, 8. 0« 

TASTY SALAD DRESSING 

6 tablespoonf Ills cottage cheese % green pepper 
1 teaspoonful salt 2 red radishes 

3 tablespoonfuls lemon juice Tolks of 2 hard-cooked eggs 

y^ teaspoonful paprika % cupful rich buttermilk 

1 clove garlic 

Bub the bowl with a clove of garlic cut. Chop the green 
pepper and the radishes fine and mash the egg-yolks. Mix 
and beat all the ingredients together well and pour dressing 
over any green salad. This dressing is especially good on 
lettuce or romaine. MniWAusEE^ wis. 



THOUSAND ISLAND SALAD DRESSING 

1 cupful tiiick mayonnaise dress- g tablespoonfuls chili sauce 
ing 12 chopped pimientos 

% tablespoonful chopped chives 

Combine and serve at once. The mayonnaise should be 
very thick. This is especially good on pea and waxed-bean 

salad. ABERDEEN, S. DAE. 



UNCOOKED SALAD DRESSING 

y% teaspoonful paprika 3 eggs 

1 tablespoonful salt V^ cupful melted butter 

1 tablespoonful mustard 1 cupful vinegar 

1 can condensed milk 

Mix paprika, salt, and mustard together with a little of 
the vinegar, add butter, the rest of the vinegar, then ^gs 
well beaten, and last the condensed milk. Beat all together 
well with an egg-beater. Set in a cold place. Chill thor- 
oughly before using. lawbence, mass. 



Sandwiches 



CHICKEN GIBLET AND EGG SANDWICH FILLING 

Giblets of one chicken % teaspoonful salt 

1 hard-cooked egg ^ teaspoonful Worcestershire 

1 tablespoonf al cream sauce 

1 teaspoonful tomato catchup 

Boil the giblets in salted water until tender. Put the gib- 
lets and the egg through a meat-grinder. Add seasonings. 
This filling is very nice on rye bread. oswbgo, n. y, 

CREAMED OYSTER SANDWICHES 

1 quart raw oysters (about 4 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley 
dozen) or chives 

1 teaspoonful salt % cupful melted butter 
y^ teaspoonful pepper % cupful rich cream 
Speck nutm^ 3 e^-whites 

1 cupful powdered crackers 

Chop oysters very fine, season with salt, pepper, and nut- 
meg; add the melted butter, cream, whites of eggs beaten 
stiffly, and powdered crackers. Cook in a double-boiler until 
it is a smooth paste; add one teaspoonful chopped parsley 
or chopped chives if the flavor is liked ; then set away to cool. 
Spread mixture between thin slices of buttered bread, either 
graham or white. ST. john, n. b. 

DELICIOUS SANDWICH FILLING 

2 small cream cheeses % cupful orange juice 

2 tablespoonfuls butter or mar- % cupful chopped pimientos 
garin 1 cupful chopped walnut-meats 

y2 teaspoonful salt 

147 



148 Good Housekeeping's Book of 

Cream the cheeses nntil smooth, and add gradually the but- 
ter or margarin and the orange juice. When well blended 
together, add the pimientos, the walnut-meats and the salt. 
Mix well and spread between slices of buttered graham or 
oatmeal bread. This amount will spread abdut twenty lai^ 
sandwiches. 



HONEY AND NUT SANDWICHES 

White bread Chopped nuts, a choice of black 

Bntter walnuts, pecans, or hickory 

Honey nuts 

Shape and butter the bread, and then spread lightly with 
honey, taking care not to spread it quite to the edge. Sprinkle 
with the chopped nuts. The top piece of bread of the sand- 
wich should be buttered and spread with the honey. The two 
slices may then be pressed together, and a garnish of a half 
nut may be used as a decoration on top by dipping the under 
side of the nut in the honey and sticking it onto the sand- 
wich. PHILADELPHU, PA. 



HOT CHEESE SANDWICHES 

1 roll snappy cheese V4, teaspoonf ul salt 

1 egg well beaten V^ teaspoonf ul mustard 

1 tablespoonful Worcestershire Bacon 

sauce Rounds of bread 

Cream the cheese; add the egg and seasoning and spread 
on the bread, which should be cut about a half-inch thick. 
Place a slice of bacon on each round and bake a few minutes 
in a quick oven till the bacon is done. Serve with a green 

salad. BROOKLYN, N. T. 

HOT-GREEN-PEPPER SANDWICHES 

6 large green peppers 3 tablespoonfuls olive-oil, butter, 
6 medium-sized tomatoes or bacon-drippings 
% cupful sliced onion Fresh buns, or white or entire- 
Salt and pepper to taste wheat bread 



Recipes and Household Discoveecies 149 

Cook the sliced onions for five minutes in the oil, butter 
or bacon-drippings. Remove seeds and stems from tide pep- 
pers, peel the tomatoes, chop coarsely together, add to the 
onion and oil (or its substitute), and cook till the juice is 
evaporated, about forty-five minutes. Season to taste with 
salt and pepper and serve hot as sandwiches, made of the 
desired bread. To make this very substantial, insert two 
slices of cooked bacon, or a slice of cooked ham in each sand- 
wich. OONNEAUTVILLB, PA. 



ITALIAN SANDWICH 

% pomid dried beef V^ pomid American cheese 

1 pint canned tomatoes 

Put the beef and cheese through the meat-grinder; add 
the tomatoes, which have been sieved, and cook till thick. 
When cold, use as a filling for white bread sandwiches. A 
lettuce-leaf in each sandwich is a good addition. 

BBOOEliYN, N. T. 



OATS AND CHEESE SANDWICH FILLING 

% eupful cooked rolled oats 2 or 3 tablespoonfols prepared 

% capful grated cheese mustard 

1 tablespoonf ul chopped nuts 

To the cooked oats, which were well salted during cooking, 
add the grated cheese and chopped nuts. Mix thoroughly 
with the mustard, the exact amount depending upon the 
dryness of the oats. Use as a filling between slices of but- 
tered rye bread. toledo, o. 



PICNIC OB CAMPING SANDWICH 

1 can pimientos Cheese 

1 tablespoonful butter Buttered bread 

Pry pimientos quickly in the butter and remove from the 
pan. In the same butter place thin slices of cheese and hold 



150 Good Housekeeping's Book of 

this over the campfire until the cheese is "pliable" bat not 
melted. Place between buttered slices of bread a layer of 
pimiaito and a layer of cheese. Serve while hot. 

BROOKLYN, N. Y. 

PIQUANT CHEESE SANDWICHES 

3 eggs 1 teaspoonful mnstard 

1 eupf al sweet or sour cream 4 tablespoonf uls finely chopped 

1 tablespoonf ul butter green or red peppers 

1 tablespoonf ul sugar 1 teaspoonful salt 

Few grains cayemie pepper 3 tablespoonf uls mild viaegar 

1% pounds American cheese 

Beat the eggs, add cream, butter, sugar, cayenne pepper, 
mustard, and salt. Cook over boiling water until thick. Heat 
vinegar and add it to the cream mixture. Cook another min- 
ute. Cream or crumble cheese and add chopped peppers and 
enough of the dressing to make the mixture spread easily. 

NEW YORK, N. Y. 

SAVORY SANDWidH PILLING 

% cupful almonds Paprika 

1 tablespoonf ul cooking oil 2 tablespoonf uls chopped pickles 

Salt 1 tablespoonf ul chopped chutney 

1 large cream cheese 

Blanch the almonds and brown them in the oil placed in 
a skillet. Chop fine. Season well with salt and paprika and 
add the pickles and chutney. Spread either bread or crack- 
ers with cream cheese softened and sprinkle with the almond 
mixture. This is sufficient filling to make up one small loaf 
of bread in sandwiches, if the slices are cut thin. 

HUMANSVELLE, MO. 

SUBSTANTIAL CAMPER'S SANDWICH 

Thinly sliced tomatoes White bread 

Canned salmon Butter 

Cut the bread one-quarter inch thick, and spread with 
butter. On one slice put a layer of the tomatoes salted. 



Begifes and Household Discoveries 151 

Cover this with the salmon minced, and then put on the 
second slice. No other dressing is needed, although a little 
mayonnaise or boiled dressing may be mixed with the salmon 
if desired. Brooklyn, n. y. 



TASTY NEW SANDWICH FHiLINQ 

3 tablespoonfuls peanut butter 2 tablespoonf uls cold water 

2 tablespoonfuls tomato catchup 

Add the cold water gradually to the peanut butter to make 
it the desired consistency for spreading. Beat until very 
creamy and add the tomato catchup. Mix thoroughly and 
spread between very thin slices of bread. No butter is 
needed. This amount of filling makes only a few sandwiches. 

WASHINGTON, PA. 



TUM-YDM SANDWICHES 

1 cream cheese; or an equal 2 cupf uls minced ham 

quantity of cottage cheese White or rye bread 

1 small bunch watercress 

Pick the leaves from the watercress, and cream them into 
the cheese together with the ham. Spread between thin slices 
of unbuttered bread. A little mayonnaise or French dressing 
may be added to this sandwich filling if desired, ssene, n.^h. 



Soups 



BEAN OHOWDEB 

1 pint naTy bems 2 medium-sized onions 

^ pound salt pork % teaspoonf ul pepper 

1 quart can tomatoes 2 teaspoonf uls salt 

1% tablespoonf uls sugar 

Soak the beans overnight in a quart of boiling water con- 
taining one teaspoonful of baldng-soda. Drain, rinse thor- 
oughly, and put into a kettle containing a quart of water, with 
the pork cut in dice and the onion thinly sliced. Boil gently 
for four hours, replenishing the water as it boils away. Then 
add the tomatoes, pepper, salt, and sugar, and simmer an 
hour longer. This may also be prepared in the fireless cooker. 
In this case all the ingredients should be added in the be- 
ginning, and the chowder should be boiled twenty minutes 
before being put in the cooker, tbxas ctty, te^. 

BLACK BEAN SOUP 

2 cupf uls blaek beans 1 tomato, or one-half eup stewed 
Roast-beef bones, or hock bones tomatoes, if desired 

1% tablespoonfuls salt % teaspoonful pepper 

2^ quarts water Yz tablespoonful Worcestershire 

1 chopped onion sauce 

1 tablespoonful lemon juice 1 hard-cooked egg 

V/z tablespoonfuls butter V/z tablespoonful flour 

Soak beans overnight, in the morning drain and put In 
kettle with the water and bones. Simmer gently for three 
hours, then add onion, tomatoes, salt, and pepper. Boil till 
beuis are soft, rub through a sieve, thicken with the flour 
and butter creamed together, and add the Worcestershire 
sauce, the egg chopped fine, and the lemon juice. 

152 



KsGiPES AND Household Discoybbibs 15S 



CANNED CORN AND CELERY CHOWDER 

1 ean com 2 onions 

1 head celery V^ pound salt pork 

1 quart milk Salt and pepper to taste 

2 cupfuls diced, cooked potatoes 

Dice the salt pork and put it in a frying-pan. When the 
fat begins to cook out, add the onions chopped fine and cook 
the two together until the latter are tender and the salt pork 
is browned. Cut the celery in inch-lengths and cook it till 
tender in salted water barely to cover. Add celery and liquor 
to the milk with the potato, onions, and pork. Bring to the 
boiling-point, turn in the com^ reheat, and serve with sj^lit 
and buttered browned crackers. hangveb^ n. bl 



CELERY CHOWDER 

4 eupf uls finely cut celery 2 tablespoonf uls margarin 

1 quart milk 1 tablespoonful flour 

1 large potato grated 2 hard-cooked eggs 

1 medium-sized onion Salt and pepper to taste 

Boil the celery in water to cover until tender, and f qtco 
through a sieve, keeping the water as well as pulp. Add tEo 
milk and grated potato and cook five minutes. Chop the 
onion fine and saute in one tablespoonful of the margarin. 
When delicately browned, add to the first mixture. Chop 
the hard-cooked eggs and add. Thicken slightly with one 
tablespoonful of margarin and the fiour cooked together. 
Season to taste with salt and pepper. Leaves and the tougher 
outer stalks of celery may be used. san diego, cau 



CREAM OP PEA SOUP WITH VEGETABLES 

1 ean peas % teaspoonful salt 

1 quart boiling water Vs teaspoonful pepper 

1 medium-sized potato Few grains nutm^ 

1 small onion % cupful hot water 

1 small carrot 1 can vegetable soup 

2 tablespoonf uls flour % cupful cream or evaporated 
2 tablespoonf uls butter milk 



154 Good Housekeeping's Book of 

Chop together the potato, onion, and carrot, add to the 
boiling water with the peas, cook for an hour, replenishing 
the water as it evaporates. Then strain. Add the vege- 
table sonp diluted according to directions, and thicken with 
the flour and butter creamed together with the salt, pepper, 
and nutmeg, and diluted with the hot water. Add the cream 
just before serving. canton, o. 



CREAM OP TOMATO COCONUT SOUP 

1 pint canned tomatoes 1 slice onion 

1 piat milk 2 tablespoonfuls flour 

y^ teaspoonful soda 2 tablespoonfuls margarin 

^ cupful freshly grated coconut 1 teaspoonful salt 

2 teaspoonfuls sugar % teaspoonful pepper 

Melt the margarin in a saucepan, add flour, and cook till 
bubbling; add cold milk gradually, stirring constantly until 
thickened. Add coconut. Cook tomatoes with onion, sugar, 
and seasoning, for fifteen minutes. Add soda and rub 
through a strainer. Combine mixtures slowly and serve at 

once. NEW YORK, N, T. 



CREOLE SOUP 

1 pint stewed tomatoes 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

1 green pepper, sliced thin 2 tablespoonfuls flour 

1 pint well-seasoned soup stock Salt and paprika to taste 

Ys teaspoonful celery salt 

Simmer the tomatoes, pepper, and stock together for fif- 
teen minutes. Thicken witii the flour and butter creamed 
together, strain and season. Norwood, mass. 



DELICIOUS PISH CHOWDER 

1 pound haddock, cod or halibut % teaspoonful sugar 
4 medium-sized potatoes About % cupful cracker-cmmbs 

3 sliees fat salt pork, dieed 1 quart milk 

3 medium-sized onions Salt and pepper to taste 

^ teaspoonful curry-powder 



Recipbs and Household Discoveries 155 

Slice the potatoes and put them on to boil in a quart of 
water. Then mash them and return to the water in which 
they were boiled. In the meantime try out the salt pork, 
add the onions, and cook them slowly in the fat till thor- 
oughly done. Add to the potatoes. Turn id the fish cut in 
dice, add the sugar, curry, and milk. Cook gently for thirty 
minutes; thicken as desired with the cracker- or dry bread- 
crumbs, the exact amount depending on the fineness of the 
crumbs. Season with salt and pepper to taste. 

ANSONIAy CONN. 



A DIFFERENT POTATO SOUP 

2 cupf uls diced potatoes 1 quart milk 

% cupful canned tomatoes Few grains cayezme pepper 

1 small onion Few shreds cabbage or pieces of 

1 tablespoonful butter celery 

1 teaspoonful salt Vs teaspoonful pepper 

Vs teaspoonful baking-soda 

Place potatoes in a good-sized pan, add tomatoes, onion 
diced, cayenne pepper, cabbage or celery, butter, and salt 
and pepper. Cover with just enough water to allow for cook- 
ing of potatoes, etc. When tender, add baking-soda and then 
the milk and allow to reach boiling-point. S^rve with crisp 
toast or saltines. faihland, ind. 



ESAU'S POTTAGE 

4 small onions 1 can red kidney beans 

2 tablespoonfuls shortening 1 can tomatoes 

Vs teaspoonful soda 1 pint hot milk 

Salt and pepper 

Chop onions and cook in the shortening until soft and 
yellow. Add the beans and tomatoes; simmer until soft 
enough to force through a strainer. When ready to serve 
add the soda and thin with the hot milk; season to taste. 
More milk may be added, if desired. Philadelphia, pa. 



156 Good Housekeeping's Book of 



QINGEB CREAM SOUP 

4 tablespoonf nls bntter 2 teaspoonf nls salt 

3 tablespoonf nls floor Vg teaspoonful pepper 

3 eupf nls milk, or milk and veg- 1 cupful of any cooked vegetable 
etable stock (as carrots, peas, celery) 

1 teaspoonful ginger 

Make a white sattce as follows: melt the butter, add the 
flour and ginger; cook until it bubbles; add milk (or half 
milk and half water in which vegetable was cooked) gradu- 
ally, stirring constantly. When all the milk is added, season 
with salt and pepper and add the vegetables chopped fine or 
forced through a sieve. Heat and serve with croutons. Left- 
over vegetables may be utilized in making this soup. 

MISS0X7LA, MONT. 



GRANDMOTHER'S PARSNff CHOWDER 

3 slices fat salt pork, diced 1 quart scalded milk 

1 medium^ized onion sliced thin 3 tablespoonf uls butter 

2 cupfuls cubed raw potato 4 water crackers or 

1% cupfuls cubed raw parsnips % cupful cracker-crumbs 

3 cupfuls boiling water 2 teaspoonf uls salt 

y^ teaspoonful pepper 

Combine the salt pork and onion in the soup-kettle and 
cook for five minutes, taking care not to bum the onion; add 
to this half of the potatoes, the parsnips, and the remaining 
potatoes, sprinkle over the salt and pepper, add the boiling 
water, and simmer until the v^etable are soft Then add the 
scalded milk, butter, and eraekers split and soaked in cold 
milk, or the crumbs. worcest&b, mass. 



IMPROVED OYSTER STEW 

24 oysters 1 tablespoonful finely chopped 

Oyster liquor green pepper 

1^ teaspoonfuls salt 3 cupfuls milk 

Ys teaspoonful white pepper 4 tablespoonfuls flour 

2 tablespoonfuls butter 



1 



BEGIFBa AND HOUSBHOLD DISCOVERIES 157 

Strain liquor carefolly and cook oysters in it nntil the 
edges begin to curl. Make white sauce by melting the but- 
ter, add flour and salt. Cook till bubbling and add milk 
gradually. Then add to oysters and liquor. Add white pep- 
per and chopped green pepper last and serve at once. 

TOPSFIELDi MAS& 



LUMBERMAN'S PEA SOUP 

1 pint dried green peas 2 tablespoonfuls flour 

1 pound Bait pork 1 teaspoonf ul snnuner savory 

1 onion, minced % teaspoonf ol sage 

3 quarts boiling water Salt and pepper to taste 

Wash peas, soak overnight in water to cover, then drain. 
Wash the salt pork, scrape the rind, and add pork to the 
peas, together with onion and water. Simmer until the peas 
are tender, about seven hours, replenishing the water if nec- 
essary to keep the quantity about two quarts. If prepared in 
a fireless cooker use two quarts of water, set on a very hot 
radiator, and let stand overnight. Cook longer if necessary. 
When the peas are tender, rub through a colander, add the 
herbs, salt, and pepper to taste, and thicken with the flour 
moistened with milk or water. Boil five minutes and serve. 
If too thick, thin with hot milk. The pork may be scored 
into hidf-inch squares, baked until translucent and brown, 
and then served with prepared mustard. A ham-bone with 
a UtUe ham-fat on it may be substituted for the salt pork. 

NIAQABA FALLS, N. Y. 



NEVEB-PAIL TOMATO SOUP 

3 tablespoonf nls melted butter % teaspoonf nl soda 

3% tablespoonf uls flonr 1 teaspoonf ul salt 

2 cnpfnls sifted, canned toma- % teaspoonful onion juice 

toes 1^ cupfulsmilk 

Stir the butter and flour to a smooth paste and add the to- 
matoes gradually. When it has boiled up thoroughly, add 
soda, salt, and onion. Cool, and when desired for use add 
the cold milk, and heat thoroughly in a double boiler, stirring 
occasionally. bust, ia. 



158 Good Housekeeping's Book of 



ONION SOUP 

6 medimn-sized onions Few grains eAeey salt 

% teaspoonfnl salt 2 small eans plain consomme 

1 leaspoonfol kitehen bonqnet 3 tablespoonf nls grated Parme- 
Few grains pepper san cheese 

Few grains paprika 2 tablespoonf uls butter 

2 cnpf uls hot water 

Slice the onions and cook in butter, stirring freqaentl7, 
until light brown. Add consomm6 and hot water, and let 
boil gently fifteen minutes. Add cheese and seasoning and 
pour into casserole, and bake uncovered in a moderate oven 
fifteen minutes, until cheese is thoroughly blended. Brown 
stock or beef-broth may be substituted for consommS and 
Worcestershire sauce or any desired flavoring added. 

HABTFOBD, CONN. 

QUAHAUG CHOWDEE 

1 large onion % tablespoonful flour 

1 tablespoonful butter or pork- 1 quart quahaugs 

fat 1 tablespoonful butter 

1 quart hot water 1 pint scalded milk 

1 pint sliced potatoes Pepper to taste 

Chop the onion and cook in the fat till softened, adding a 
little water to keep it from burning. When tender, turn in 
the hot water and potatoes and cook thirty minutes. Add 
the juice from the raw quahaugs (hard-shelled clams), scald- 
ing it three minutes and skimming. Thicken with the flour, 
rubbed smooth with the butter. Then add the quahaugs 
chopped raw. Cook three minutes and add the hot milk. 
Serve without further cooking. new bedfobd, mass. 

SALT CODFISH CHOWDER 

1 pound salt codfish 2% cupfuls cold water 

1% cupfuls potatoes, cubed 1 pint milk 

1 stalk celery, chopped fine 2 cupfuls strained tomato juice 

%, cupful diced onions Pepper 

Paprika 



Begipes and Household Discoveries 159 

Shred the salt codfish into small pieces and coyer with lake- 
warm water. Allow to stand overnight and then pour oflE the 
water, or allow it to stand for two hours, changing the water 
three times. Cut the potatoes into one-eighth inch cubes. 
Place in a kettle, together with the salt fish, the celery chopped 
fine, and the diced onions. Add the cold water, cover, and 
allow to simmer twenty-five minutes. Heat the milk and 
strained tomato juice separately, and add gradually to the 
fish and potato. Season vnth pepper and paprika and serve 
with plain bread and butter sandwiches. i^ew tobk, n. y. 

VEGETABLE CHOWDER 

6 slices fat bacon 4 large potatoes ^ 

1 can tomatoes 1 can okra if desired 

1 quart milk 2 tablespoonf uls flour 

1 can lima beans 1^ teaspoonfuls salt 

2 onions % teaspoonful pepper 

% teaspoonful soda 

Dice the bacon and cook until brown ; add onion sliced thin 
and cooked until softened in the bacon-fat. Combine the lima 
beans and the potatoes, cubed, with the milk. Add bacon 
and onions and cook until the potatoes are done. Thicken 
with the flour mixed with a little cold milk; add the salt, 
pepper, and okra, and stir in the tomatoes, after adding the 
soda to them and bringing them to the boiling point. Dried 
lima beans, cooked till tender, may be used. hanoveb, n. h. 

VEGETABLE SOUP WITHOUT MEAT 

2 quarts cold water 1 cupful canned tomato 

3 good-size3 potatoes, diced 1 small bunch celery, chopped 
2 small onions, sliced 1 cupful cooked navy beans 

1 carrot, cut in straws 2 tablespoonf uls butter 

Y2 cupful chopped cabbage 1 teaspoonful sugar 

Salt and pepper to taste 

Caramelize the sugar in the soup-kettle, add the water and 
all the vegetables except the beans. Simmer slowly for an 
hour. Season with salt and pepper to taste, and then cook 
gently for an hour longer. Then add the beans and butter. 
If prepared in a fireless cooker^ use only one and one-half 
quarts of water. napoleon, o. 



Vegetables 

BAKED BEANS WITH CHILI SAUCE 
(For the Fireless Cooker) 

1 qnart pearbeans V^ teaspoonfol baking-soda 

1 pomid fat salt pork % cnpful chili sauce 

1 teaspoonful prepared mnstard 2 tablespoonfuls minced onion 

3 teaspoonfuls salt V^ cupful molasses 

Soak the beans all day in cold water to cover. In the eve- 
ning rinse, add the baking-soda, pork, and salt, and boil 
twenty minutes. Heat a radiator to 400° F. and cook the 
beans all night in the fireless cooker. In the morning add 
the chili sauce, onion, and molasses. Reheat the radiator, 
place a second heated radiator over the top, and bake for 
three hours. EBiEy pa. 

BAKED BEANS WITH SAMP 

1 pint navy or kidney beans % pound salt pork or bacon 

1 cupful samp or coarse hominy 2 teaspoonfuls salt 

2 tablespoonfuls molasses 1 teaspoonf ul paprika 

% teaspoonf ul baking-soda 

Soak the beans and samp overnight in two quarts of wate» 
containing the baking^soda. In the morning drain, cover 
with cold water, and boil until the skins break; then add the 
other ingredients — ^the pork should be cut in cubes — place in 
a bean-pot and bake for several hours; all day in a fireless 
cooker is not too long. In the summer omit the samp, and 
half an hour before serving stir in one pint of raw corn cut 
from the cob and seasoned to taste. Finish baking as usual 

BEDDING, CONN. 

160 



Secipes and Household Discoveries 161 



BAKED KIDNEY BEANS 

3 cupfnls kidney beans 3^ teaspoonful pepper 

4 large onions ^ pound fat salt pork 
1 pint canned or stewed toma- 1 tablespoonf ul sugar 

toes 1 tablespoonful salt 

Soak the beans overnight ; in the morning, parboil together 
with the onions. Put into the bean-pot ajid stir in the toma- 
toes, salt, sugar, and pepper. Bury pork in the beans, having 
water barely to cover. Two hours before the beans will be 
done bring pork to the top to brown. Bake about five hours 
in a slow oven. batnham centeb^ mass. 



BAKED NEW BEETS 

2 bunches new beets 1 teaspoonful salt 

3 tablespoonfuLs butter %, teaspoonful pepper 

Wash and scrub the new beets ; cut oflf the stem-ends, place 
beets in a pan containing a little hot water to keep them from 
sticking, and bake till tender in a moderately hot oven — 
from forty-five minutes to an hour. Cool, remove skins, and 
serve seasoned with butter, salt, and pepper. 

wobcestse^ mass. 

BAKED SQUASH 

1 large Hubbard squash 4 tablespoonfuls brown sugar 

2 teaspoonfuls salt 2 tablespoonfuls butter or mar- 
% teaspoonful pepper garin 

Gut squash crosswise, remove the fiber and seeds, scrape 
the cavity thoroughly, and place it cut side down on the rack 
in a dripping-pan with half a cupful of hot water. Bake it 
at least two hours in a moderately hot oven, replenishing the 
water, if necessary. If the squash is too moist, remove it 
from the pan when done, pour off any excess liquid, return, 
the squash to the pan, placing it cut side up, and dry it off 
for ten minutes in a warm oven. At this stage sprinkle the 
squa^di with the salt, pepper, and brown sugar, and dot over 



162 QOOD HOUSBEKEPINO'S BoOK OF 

with batter or margarin; let brown in a hot oven. Honey 
may be used in place of the brown sugar, for variety ; or the 
squadi, after being baked until soft, may be scraped from the 
shell, mashed with a fork, and seasoned with salt, pepper, and 
just a trace of mace ; also add a little sweet cream or butter. 
The addition of grated cheese gives another variation. 

BEDDING, CONN. 

BEETS A LA KING 

5 medimn-sized beets 3 tablespoonfuls cream 

1 tablespoonf ul butter % teaspoonf ul sugar 

1 tablespoonf ul flour % teaspoonf ul salt 

1 cupful cold water % teaspoonful pepper 

3 tablespoonfuls vinegar % teaspoonful paprika 

Wash and boil the beets till tender. Then drop into cold 
water and slip the skins from them. Cut the beets into thin 
slices or fancy shapes. Melt the butter, add the flour, and 
cook till bubbling; then add the water and stir till smooth. 
Add the vinegar and remove from the fire. Then stir in the 
cream, sugar, salt, pepper, and paprika. Pour over the beets 
and serve hot. phHjAdelphia, pa. 



BELGIAN CAEROTS 

2 cupfuls thinly sliced French % teaspoonful pepper 

carrots 1 tablespoonful minced parsley 

ly^ tablespoonfuls sugar }4 cupful butter 

Combine the sugar and carrots and cook covered till soft, 
adding water barely to cover. When tender, drain, mince 
carrots, and add remaining ingredients. Let stand in a warm 
place about half an hour. cambridoe, mass. 



BRAISED CARROTS 

6 medium-sized carrots 2 tablespoonfuls melted butter 

1 cupful stock or boiling water 

Wash and scrape the carrots, cut them in quarters length- 
wise, and let them stand in boiling water until the water cools. 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 163 

BenH)ve and place them in a frying pan with the melted 
butter. Cook them gently until well browned, turning them 
often. Then add the stock or boiling water and place them 
in the oven for half an hour. When tender and well done, 
serve on a hot platter with the gravy, properly seasoned and 
strained, over them. Philadelphia, pa. 

BREAKFAST CORN AND POTATOES 

3 cupfuls diced cooked potatoes 3 tablespoonfuls bacon or sau* 

4 ears cooked com sage fat 

1^ teaspoonfuls salt Vz teaspoonful paprika 

Cut cold cooked potatoes into half-inch dice, season with 
salt and paprika, and saute until a rich brown in the bacon 
or sausage fat ; when nearly done add the com cut from the 
cob, and stir lightly among the potatoes until the com also 
is delicately browned. Do this quickly. concord, mass. 

BROWN BREAD TOMATO TOAST 

3 tablespoonfuls fat or oil % cupful rich milk 

3 tablespoonfuls flour Toasted brown bread 
1^ cupfuls stewed tomatoes % teaspoonful pepper 
y^ teaspoonful soda 1 teaspoonful salt 

Melt the fat in a saucepan ; add the flour. When smooth, 
add the stewed tomatoes to which the soda has been added, 
then stir in the milk gradually. When this thickens a little, 
season with salt and pepper. Pour over slices of toasted 
brown bread. Graham may be used if preferred. 

TABPON SPRINGS, FLA. 

BUTTERED POTATOES AND ONIONS 

1 dozen small, whole potatoes V2 dozen medium-sized onions 

4 tablespoonfuls margarin 3 teaspoonfuls salt 

y^ teaspoonful pepper 

Pare the potatoes and onions and put in a casserole ; add 
the margarin, salt, and pepper. Cover and bake in l^ree- 
qnarters of an hour. ames. ia. 



IM Ckx>D Houseksefing's Book of 



BUTTERLESS PARSNIPS 

6 medirai-Bized pannipe Pepper, maoe, enrry or other 

)4 cnpf nl ehoppedy raw suet Beasonings to taste 

1 teaapoonf 111 salt 

Wash the parsnips and boil one-half hour, or until mod- 
erately tender. Drain and cover with cold water to slip off 
the skins. Split lengthwise, arrange in a shallow, greased 
baking-dish, sprinkle with the suet and seasonings, and bake 
in a hot oven nntil evenly browned and crisp on the edges. 

REDDING, CONN. 



CABBAGE 

1 small, hard eabbage 1 teaspoonfol salt 

^ teaspoonfid baking-soda 

Cat the cabbage in quarters and place cut side down 
in cold salted water for ten minutes. To a kettle of boiling 
water add the salt and baking-soda. Drain the cabbage well 
and plunge it into the saucepan. Cover for a moment until 
the boiling is again resumed; then remove the lid of the 
saucepan and continue boiling rapidly without a cover for 
twenty-five minutes, not a moment longer. If the cabbage is 
first sliredded coarsely, even less time will be required. Now 
drain it well, pressing it lightly to exclude all the water, and 
dress it as you prefer. PHUiADELPmA, pa. 



CABBAGE AU QRATIN 

2 enpfuls chopped boiled cab- % cupful buttered crumbs 

bage (seasoned lightly with 1 cupful milk 
salt and pepper) Few grains of pepper 

1 tablespoonf ul flour % teaspoonf ul salt 

1 tablespoonful butter ^ cupful grated cheese 

Put the chopped cabbage into a buttered baking-dish ; pour 
over this white sauce made as follows: Melt the butter, add 
flour and seasoning, and blend well. Add the milk gradually, 
stirring constantly, and cook until the mixture becomes thick. 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 165 

OoTer with buttered crams and grated cheese, and bake until 
brown. oodt, wyo. 



CARROTS WITH BUTTER SAUCE 

3 eupfuls diced carrots 3 tablespoonfuls butter 

2% enpf nis boiling water 1 teaspoonful sugar 

1^ teaspoonfuls salt Few grains pepper 

2 tablespoonfuls flour 

Pry carrots in butter till slightly softened; add flour, 
seasonings, and water, bring to a boil, cover and simmer gently 
tiU carrots are tender. This takes about an hour. 

WJULOOiT, CONN. 



CELERY AU GRATIN 
3 cupf uls diced celery V^ cupful grated cheese 

V/2 cupfuls medium-thick white Yz cupful dry bread-crumbs 
sauoe 

Boil the celery in a small amount of salted water till tender, 
allowing it to cook practically dry. Butter a baking-dish and 
put in a layer of the celery, then one of white sauce, alternat- 
ing in this way till all is used. Cover the top with the cheese 
and crumbs and brown in a hot oven. 

NEWTON OBNTEB, HASS. 



CHEESE POTATOES IN JACKET 

6 large potatoes 1^^ teaspoonfuls salt 

2 egg-wMtes well beaten Ys teaspoonful pepper 

1 teaspoonful butter Cheese 

^ cupful rich milk or cream 

Rub potatoes over with melted butter, then bake till thor- 
oughly done. Cut in halves lengthwise, scoop out potato, 
and mash till all the lumps are out. Beat in the butter, milk 
and seasoning, and, when fluffy, add the egg-whites. Then 
refill the potato-shells, smooth, and place on top of each a thin 
slice of Ainerican cheese. Return to oven to brown for about 
ten minatesb and serve at once. elbsbion, oa. 



166 QooT> HousEKEEPma's Book of 



COOKED TOMATOES 

1 laiige ean tomatoes 1^4 tablespoonfnls sugar 

1 tablespoonfol buttar 1 teaspoonful salt 

1 tablespoonfnl flour Vs teaspoonful pepper 

2 hard-eooked eggs 

Melt butter, add flour, and stir till dark brown. Turn in 
tomatoes^ sugar, salt, and pepper, and cook till thick, about 
thirty minutes. Just before serving, slice the hard-cooked 
eggs over the top. abmoby, miss. 

CORN AND TOMATOES, SOUTHERN STYLE 

6 eaiB com 2 teaspoonf uls salt 

iy2 cupfuls stewed tomato 1 tablespoonful sugar 

y^ teaspoonful pepper 

Cut cooked tender com from the cob, first scoring each row 
down through the middle with a sharp knife, and mix wil^ 
stewed tomato to moisten well. Season highly with the sugar, 
salt, and pepper. concord, mass. 

CREAMED CABBAGE AND POTATOES 

1 medium-sized cabbage Paprika 

6 medium-sized potatoes 2 tablespoonfuls butter or mar- 

2 teaspoonf uls salt garin 

2 tablespoonfuls flour 2 cupfuls milk 

Quarter the cabbage, scrape or pare the potatoes, and cook 
together in plenty of salted water till tender. Drain, return 
to fire, season with the salt, paprika, and the butter or 
margarin, and dredge with the flour. Add the niilk and 
chop and toss lightly with a biif e until the milk is thickened 
and largely absorbed. heddzno, gonn. 

CREAMED CARROTS AND ONIONS 

1 large bunch carrots 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

2 medium-sized onions 2 tablespoonfuls flour 

1 cupful milk Salt and pepper to taste 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 167 

Wash, scrape, and cut carrots into small pieces, slice onions, 
and boil together until tender. Make a white sauce with the 
milk, flour, and butter, add salt and pepper. Drain carrots 
and onions and stir into the sauce. Serve hot. 

HINSDALE, ILL. 

DELICIOUS POTATOES AU GRATIN 

2 cupfuls diced potatoes 1 cupful milk 

2 tablespoonfuls butter 1 teaspoonful lemon juice 

2 tablespoonfuls flour 1 cupful grated American cheese 

% teaspoonful salt 

Cook butter and flour together until bubbling; then add 
milk very slowly, stirring constantly. Cook until thick and 
smooth. Add the cheese and stir until it is melted, then add 
salt and lemon juice. Pepper may be added if desired. In 
this sauce place the potatoes and heat thoroughly. Put into 
a greased baking-dish, cover the top with more grated chee^^. 
Brown in a hot oven. petalxtma, gal. 



ti 



DIFFERENT" POTATO CAEJIS 



2 eupfuls cold mashed potato 1 egg 
2 tablespoonfuls milk *Bacon 

Add to the potato the egg, well beaten, milk, salt, and pep- 
per to taste if the potato has not already been seasoned. Mix 
well and form, using a little flour, into eight or ten neat balls. 
Pin around each a thin strip of bacon, using a wooden tooth- 
pick to hold it in place. Set in a hot oven, or under broiler 
blaze if gas is used, till bacon is brown and crispy. Serve at 

once. BERKELEY, GAL. 

EGGPLANT AU GRATIN 

2 medium-sized eggplants 3 tablespoonfuls chopped pimih 

1% teaspoonfuls salt 1^ 

% teaspoonful pepper 2 medium-sized tomatoes 

1 tablespoonful vinegar 1 cupful soaked bread-crumbs 

1 medium-sized onicm 2 tablespoonfuls butter or mar- 

1 small piece garlic garin 

1 shallot V2 cupful mushrooms 



168 Good Housbksepino's Book of 

Cut the eggplant in halves and remove the pulp without 
brecAdng the skin. Put this pulp in a bowl with one tea- 
spoonful of salty one-quarter teaspoonful of pepper, and the 
vinegar. Let stand one hour. Chop the onion, garlic and 
shallot very fine. Add the chopped parsley, and the mush- 
rooms and tomatoes coarsely chopped. Place in a frying-pan 
and fry until golden brown. Then add the drained eggplant 
pulp and the bread-crumbs. Mix well. Add a half teaspoon- 
ful of salt and one-eighth teaspoonful of pepper. Pry until 
the mixture is tender. Then fill the eggplant shells with this 
stuffing. Dot over the top with the butter or mai^arin and 
hake until the shells are tender, in a moderate oven. 

PARIS, VBANCm. 



FLAVORED BEETS 

2 cupfuls sliced^ cooked beets 2 tablespoonfnls batter 

% capful sagar % teaspoonful salt 

^ cupfol vin^^ % tablespoonf ul com-staich 

Mix the corn-starch with the vinegar, add sugar and salt, 
and let come to a boil, stirring constantly. Cook five minutes, 
then beat in the butter, pour over the beets, and serve hot. 

SPRINGVILLB^ N. T. 



PRIED CAXJLIPLOWER WITH ONION 

1 head cauliflower 1 oniou 

2 tablespoonf uls fat 

Cook a good-sized head of cauliflower in boiling salted water 
until tender. Drain and separate into flowerets. Brown the 
onion, minced, in the fat; add the cauliflower and cook ten 
minutes. jebset city, n, j. 



GREAT-GRANDMOTHER'S SUCCOTASH 

6 ears of com V^ pound piece bacon 

1 pint fresh lima beans, shelled 2 quarts water 
1 large potato 3 teaspoonf uls salt 

y^ teaspoonful pepper 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 169 

Score the com and cut from the cobs, scraping the cobs 
well to obtain all the milk. Place in a soup kettle with the 
diced potato, lima beans, and bacon cut in cubes. Add the 
water and seasoning; bring slowly to a boil and let simmer 
four hours, or cook in the fireless cooker. Serve in the soup 
tureen or in soup dishes. Washington^ d. c. 



LIMA BEANS EN CASSEROLE 

1% enpf Ills dried lima beans 1 cupful milk 

y^ pound sliced bacon Salt 

2 medium-sized onions Pepper 

Soak the beans overnight. In the morning boil until soft 
and drain. Sear the bacon in a hot frying-pan ; remove from 
pan and add the onions sliced. Cook these until soft. In a 
greased casserole place a layer of beans sprinkled with onions, 
small pieces of the bacon, and sparingly with salt and pepper; 
repeat until all is used. Over this pour the milk and bake 
from fifteen minutes to one-half hour. urbana, iUj. 



LONG ISLAND SUCCOTASH 

2 cupf uls com cut from cob Piece salt pork 2 inches square 
1^ cupf uls lima beans 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

3 cupfuls water 1 tablespoonful flour 
2 eupfuls milk 1 tablespoonful water 
2 teaspoonfuls salt V^ teaspoonful pepper 

Combine the com and lima beans, add the water, and cook 
for one-half hour, stirring now and then. Pour oflE the water, 
add the milk, salt pork, and salt, and simmer for one hour, 
until the beans and com are tender. Add the butter and 
the flour, which has been made into a paste with one table- 
spoonful of water. Add the pepper and serve hot. 

LAWRENCE, L. I. 



LUNCHEON ASPARAGUS 

2 bnnehes asparagus 6 large slices buttered toast 

3 tablespoonfuls melted butter Grated cheese 



170 Good Housbkeepino's Book of 

Clean asparagus, cut off the tough ends, and tie tips in 
bundles. Sprinkle lightly with salt, and steam or hoU till 
tender. Place on the toast, sprinkle liberally with grated 
cheese, and set in a quick oven to melt the cheese. 

MBW HAVENy CONK. 



LUNCHEON CORN 

6 ean eom 1 teaspoonf ul sugar 

2 eupfnls milk 3 tablespoonf uls batter or mar- 

2 teaspoonfuls salt garin 

Paprika Toast 

If com is a little old, cut it off the cob — ^first scoring down 
the middle of each row with a sharp knife and slicing off tiie 
tips of the kernels — ^and cook five minutes, after it begins to 
boil, in the milk, using just enough to cover or moisten well. 
Season with salt, paprika, sugar, and butter or margarin, and 
dip into a shallow dish lined with hot, thin, buttered toast. 
Garnish with a picket fence of toast points standing up around 
the edge and place a sprig of parsley between the points. 
Stewed tomatoes may be used in cooking the com, in which 
case use one tablespoonful of sugar, and increase the amount 
of salt if necessary. concobd, mass. 



LUNCHEON DISH PBOM EMERGENCY SHELF 

1 qnart can spinach 1 small can tomato soup or 

6 ^gs y2 cupful tomato catchup 

Heat the spinach by steaming. Arrange on chop-plate, 
"nest" the six eggs poached on it. Surround with the heated 
soup, or the heated catchup. detboit, mich. 



LUNCHEON SPINACH 

2 cupfuls chopped, cooked spin- 1 tablespoonful butter or mar< 
ach garin 

% teaspoonful salt 1 cupful white sauce 

^ teaspoonful pepper 1 cupful minced ham 

3 hard-cooked eggs % cupful grated cheese 



Begifes and Household Discoveries 171 

Season the chopped, cooked spinach, either canned or fresh, 
with the salt, pepper, and butter or margarin. Spread one- 
half of the spinach in a buttered, glass b^ing-dish, then add 
a layer of the minced ham, next, the hard-cooked eggs, chopped 
fine, a layer of white sauce, and last the remainder of the 
spinach. Sprinkle the cheese over the top and set in a hot 
oven until a rich brown. concord, mass. 



MARYLAND CORN PIE 

6 slices bacon 2 tablespoonfuls minced green 

1% cupfuls fine dried bread- pepper 

crumbs 2 teaspoonfuls sugar 

6 medimn-sized tomatoes 3 tablespoonfuls butter or mar- 

3 large ears com garin 

2 teaspoonfuls salt 

Cook the bacon only partially, then lay two or three pieces 
in the bottom of a baking-dish and the rest around the sides. 
Sprinkle well with the bread-crumbs, using about one cupful, 
add half the tomatoes i>eeled and cut in slices, and half the 
green pepper. Sprinkle with salt and half the sugar, and dot 
with butter. Over this place a layer of uncooked green com 
which has been cut from the cob. When doing this, score 
down the middle of each row with a sharp knife. Sprinkle 
with salt and add bits of margarin; then another layer of 
tomato and seasonings as before. Cover with a thin layer of 
crumbs, dot with butter, and cook about one-half hour in a 
moderate oven. Cheese may be added if liked. 

CONCORD, MASS. 



NEW BEETS WITH ORANGE DRESSING 

2 bunches new beets 3 tart oranges 

1 tablespoonful sugar 1 small lemon 

Boil the beets in salted water and slice them thin. Sprinkle 
with the sugar and when cool add the orange and lemon 

juices. PETALUMA, CAL. 



172 QOOD HOUUBKEUFINO'S BoOK OF 



NEW SCALLOPED TOMATOES 

S 

1 can tomatoes 1 tablespoonf nl batter 

1 small onion 2 teaspoonf uls salt 

y^ green sweet pepper 1 tablespoonfol sugar 

IV^ cnpfols dried bread-cnimbs 

Stew the tomatoes, onions, pepper minced fine, and season- 
ings together until tender. Butter a casserole, put in a layer 
of the tomato mixture, then crumbs, and repeat in this way 
till all is used. Make the top layer of crumbs, dot witili 
butter, and bake half an hour in a moderate oven. 



NEW POTATOES WITH CREAM CHEESE SAUCE 

1 eupfnl cheese diced % teaspoonf ul pepper 

10 small new potatoes 2 tablespoonf uls flour 

1 pint mUk 1 tablespoonf ul minced parsley 

% teaspoonf ul salt if desired 

Boil or steam the potatoes with jackets on till done. Drain 
and peel. In the meantime scald the milk, thicken it with 
the flour mixed with a little extra cold milk, and add the 
cheese. Stir till the cheese is melted, add the seasoning and 
potatoes, heat thoroughly, and serve. 8AN luis obispo, caij. 



NEW WAT TO COOK CARROTS 

4 medium-sized carrots 2 tablespoonfuls drippings 

4 tablespoonfuls flour 1 teaspoonful salt 

1 cupful hot water 

Wash and scrape the carrots. Cut in thin slices crosswise. 
Put the drippings into a skillet and brown slightly. Mix the 
carrots with flour and salt so that each slice of carrot is well 
coated with the flour. When the fat has browned, put the 
carrots in the pan and brown slightly. Add hot water and 
turn the flame low, or cook on the^back of range until tender, 
about forty minutes. great PAUiS, mont. 



Begifbs and Household Discovebibs 173 



O'BRIEN AU GRATIN POTATOES 

2% cupfiils diced cooked pota- % teaspoonful pepper 

toes 5 tablespoonf uls minced green 
1^ tablespoonfuls flour peppers 

3 tablespoonfuls butter % cupful dry bread-crumbs 

1% cupf uls milk % cupful grated American 

1 teaspoonful salt cheese 

Make a cream sauce of the flour, butter, milk, and season- 
ings; add the green peppers and cheese; cook till the cheese 
is melted, and then pour over the potatoes diced rather small. 
Put in a buttered baking-dish, cover with the bread-crumbs, 
and dot with butter and bits of cheese. Brown in the oven. 
Canned pimientoes can be substituted for the peppers. 

BOUND BBOOE, N. J. 

ONION SAVORY 

About 1 pound onions % teaspoonful salt 

3 tablespoonfuls butter or mar- ^ teaspoonful sugar 

garin % teaspoonful pepper 

2 medium-sized tomatoes About ^ cupful water 

About y^ cupful grated cheese 

Slice tender young onions half an inch thick and saut6 in 
the butter or margarin until a light brown, turning often to 
avoid scorching. Add the tomatoes, peeled and cut in small 
pieces, the salt, sugar, and pepper, and water to make moist 
enough to simmer. Cook, covered, for about forty-five min- 
utes, stirring occasionally ; the prcniuct when done should be 
about the consistency of ordinary scalloped tomatoes. Pour 
into a buttered, shallow dish, cover with cheese, and brown 
quickly and richly in a hot oven. To make a substantial main 
course, break four eggs over the top after the cheese is lightly 
browned, first making hollows to hold the eggs. Add a little 
more cheese, and return to the oven until the eggs are set 
and the cheese is melted and browned. concobd, mass. 

PAN-ROASTED POTATOES 

6 potatoes ^ cupful beef-fat 

1 cupful hot water 



174 OOOD HOUSBKEEPINO'S BoOK OF 

Ufle potatoes of medium unifonn size. Dip each thoroughly 
in the water and fat mixed together. Put on a shallow pie- 
plate in a hot oven, and bake about three-quarters of an hour. 
This method can be used when no roast is at hand with which 
to cook the potatoes. stow, icass. 

PARSNIP TURNOVER 



2 pounds parsnips 1 

2 pounds potatoes 4 tablespoonfnls margaiin 

3 tablespoonfnls hot, savory fat % cupful milk 

Salt and pepper 

Pare or scrape parsnips and cut in thick slices, put them 
to boil in plenty of water. Pare potatoes and add them twenty 
minutes later. When all are tender, drain, mash, and season 
with margarin, milk, salt and pepper to taste, and add the 
egg beaten. Have ready in a larger frying-pan the hot, 
savory fat, turn in the parsnip mixture and let it brown 
slowly, lifting it from time to time with a spatula. When 
crisp and golden, fold over like an omelet and serve hot. 

HSDDING, CONN* 

SPANISH STRING BEANS 

4 tablespoonfnls fat or drip- 1 tablespoonful flour 
pings 1 chili pepper 

2 large onions 2 pounds green string beans 

2 tomatoes 2 teaspoonf uls salt 

Cook onions, tomatoes, chili pepper and fat together imtil 
well done and golden brown (slice vegetables thinly). Then 
brown flour, add hot water and beans, and cook one and one- 
half hours, adding salt when half done. pasadena, gal. 

SPINACH WITH GRAVY 

2 quarts spinach 1 teaspoonful flour 

2 tablespoonfnls butter 1% cupfuls meat gravy 

Clean the spinach thoroughly; steam or cook in a very small 
amount of water until tender. Drain and chop very fine. 



Bbcipes and Household Discovebies 175 

Betum the spinach to a saucepan in which the butter has been 
melted and mixed with the flour. Stir well and add the meat 
gravy. This may be any left-over gravy or it may be made 
by dissolving two bouillon cubes in one and one-half cupfuls 
of boiling water and thickening same with two tablespoonfuls 
of butter and three tablespoonfuls of flour cooked together. 

PARIS, FBANGB. 

SPRING SUCCOTASH 

1 pint camied tomatoes 1 pint canned lima beans 

% medium-sized onion 1 pint canned com 

1 clove 1 tablespoonf ul butter or mar- 

1 tablespoonful sugar garin 

y^ teaspoonf ul pepper ^ cupful grated cheese 

Strips of cooked bacon 

In a saucepan place the canned tomatoes, add the onion 
minced fine, tiie clove, sugar and pepper. Cook fifteen min- 
utes, stirring frequently. Then add the canned lima beans 
and com. Simmer ten minutes longer, add the butter or 
margarin, and serve. To vary pour the prepared and sea- 
soned combination into a buttered baking-dish, cover with 
the grated cheese, and brown richly in a hot oven. Arrange 
long, crisp strips of cooked bacon in a lattice, or radiating 
from the center over the top, as a main dish for luncheon 
or supper. goncobd, mass. 



SQUAW DISH 

% pound bacon ^ cupful hot milk 

1 cupful com ysL teaspoonful paprika 

Place strips of thinly cut bacon in a hot frying-pan and 
cook until bacon is crisp and brown, occasionally pouring off 
fat from pan and turning frequently. Remove from fat and 
drain. Leave about four tablespoonfuls of fat in the pan, 
add the milk, then the corn ; cook until soft. If canned com 
is used, it will not have to be cooked as long as green corn. 
Add paprika and serve in a platter around the bacon. 

NORTH EASTON, MASS. 



176 OooD Housbkseping'8 Book op 



STEWED PAESNIPS 

% poond lean salt pork 3 pints sliced raw parsnips 

2 quarts cold water 3 tablespoonfuls flour 

Pepper to taste 

Cut the salt pork in thin slices, cover with the water, and 
boil for three hours. Half an hour before serving time, add 
the parsnips, and, when they are tender, thicken the mixture 
with the flour wet in a little cold milk. There should be 
three pints of liquid left. If not, water should be added to 
make this amount. Add pepper to taste and, if necessary, 
a little salt. fbewsbubg, n. y. 

STEWED PUMPKIN WITH TOMATO 

3% pounds pumpkin 1 medimn-sized onion 

1 quart stewed tomatoes, strained 1 tablespoonf ul margarin 
1 tablespoonf ul fat 1 tablespoonf ul flour 

% teaspoonf ul pepper 2 teaspoonf uls salt 

Toast 

Wash and pare the pumpkin and cut into pieces about two 
inches square. ParboU it for ten minutes. Chop the onion 
and fry it until brown in the fat, using a stew-pan. Add 
the pumpkin, salt, and pepper, and cook for five minutes. 
Then cover the pumpkin with the tomato, and stew gently 
until the pumpkin is quite tender. Arrange the pumpkin on 
a hot dish and thicken the tomato with the margarin and the 
flour cooked together. Add more seasoning if needed and 
pour the sauce thus made over the piunpkin. Garnish with 
thin, narrow strips of toast. This makes a large quantity, 
at least enough to serve ten. Albany, n. y. 

STEWED TOMATOES 

1 quart tomatoes Salt 
% minced onion Pepper 

2 cloves Sugar 
Butter Toast 

To the tomatoes add the minced onion, cloves, and salt, pep- 
per, and sugar to taste. Add butter liberally just before 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 177 

taking up, and heat the sauce in which it is to be served. 
After delicately seasoning the stewed tomatoes, you may, if 
you wish, pour it on squares of hot, buttered toast and serve 
as a main dish for luncheon. Or pour over the stewed toma- 
toes a liberal amount of hot buttered croutons the last minute 
just before serving. concord, mass. 

STUFFED POTATOES 

6 medium-sized potatoes Minced ham fat 

1 cupful minced ham % teaspoonf ul salt 

% small onion chopped Tabasco 

1 tablespoonful minced parsley 1 teaspoonful lemon juice 

Bread-crumbs 

Wash the potatoes thoroughly. Cut a slice off on one side 
and scoop out about half the raw potato. In the potato place a 
layer of minced ham fat and then fill with ham seasoned 
in the following way: To the minced ham, add the small 
onion chopped, minced parsley, salt, several dashes of tabasco, 
and the lemon juice. Cover with a few fine bread-crumbs 
and bake in a moderate oven till tender. Philadelphia, pa. 

STUFFED SWEET POTATOES 

Sweet potatoes Sausage meat 

Hot water 

Pare the potatoes, cut them in halves lengthwise, and scoop 
out the centers. EefiU with sausage meat, and place together, 
fastening with a bit of string or a toothpick. Place in a 
casserole or covered baking-dish with a little hot water and 
bake from an hour and a half to two hours in a moderate 

oven. TUNKHANNOCK, PA. 

SWEET POTATO AND APPLE 

4 medium-sized sweet potatoes 4 apples, medium-sized 
1 cupful water % cupful brown sugar 

Salt 4 tablespoonfuls butter 

Partially cook sweet potatoes ; cut in dice. Pare, core, and 
cat apples in cubes. Butter a casserole and place in it 



178 Good Housekeeping's Book of 

alternately layers of sweet potatoes sprinkled with salt and 
layers of apple. Ponr over them a simp made by cooking 
the brown sugar and water. Bake covered until done. U 
desired, the top may be garnished with marshmallows and 
returned to the oven to brown. pbimohab^ ia. 



TOMATO LUNCHEON CAKES 

3 eupfnls tomatoes 1 tablespoonf nl fat 

About 4 eupfnls soft bread- 2 teaspoonf nls salt 
crumbs Pepper to taste 

Paprika to taste 

Strain the tomato, and put pulpy part in a stew pan. Place 
over fire, and when heated through, stir in as many bread- 
crumbs as the tomato will absorb. Add the butter, salt, and 
other seasoning. Remove from fire, and allow to cool. Form 
into balls and saute until brown on both sides. Serve with 
tomato sauce made as follows: 

1 cupful tomato juice 1 tablespoonful fat 

1 tablespoonful flour Salt 

Melt the fat, and add the flour gradually. Cook until it 
begins to bubble. Add the tomato juice, a little at a time, 
stirring constantly until thickened. Season to taste. 

BUTTE, MONT. 



TOMATO SUCCOTASH 

1 pint cooked string beans 1 small onion 

1 pint freshly cooked com cut V/2 teaspoonfuls salt 

from the cob ^ teaspoonful pepper 

5 ripe tomatoes 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

Peel the tomatoes and cut them in small pieces; put them 
on to stew with the onion finely minced and the salt and 
pepper. Add the string beans and cook about twenty to 
thirty minutes, stirring often. Then add the com. Cook 
five minutes after it begins to boil and add butter. If in 
season, surround with alternate small mounds of tiny carrots 
and fresh peas. concord, mass. 



Beoipes and Household Discoveries 179 



VEGETABLE HASH 

2 cnpfuls cold diced cooked po- 1 small onion 

tatoes 2 tablespoonf nls fat 

1 cnpf ul chopped cooked beets 2 teaspoonf uls salt 

1 cupful chopped cooked carrots % teaspoonful paprika 

"^2 cupful chopped cooked meat ^ teaspoonful pepper 

Heat pan thoroughly, and drop in the fat. Brown in this 
the chopped onion, add the potatoes, beets, carrots, and meat. 
Season with salt, pepper, and paprika. Cook until a brown 
crust forms on the bottom, moistening occasionally with a 
little milk or left-over beef gravy. doveb, minn. 



VEGETABLE LUNCHEON DISH 

1 pint freshly boiled spinach % teaspoonful salt 

1 tablespoonful hot vinegar 1^ cupf uls creamed onions 

2 cupf uls thick stewed tomatoes 

To the spinach arranged on a hot platter and seasoned with 
the vinegar and salt add, surrounding the spinach, the 
creamed onions, surrounding this in turn with the thick stewed 
tomatoes. Garnish, if desired, with hard-cooked eggs. In 
place of the vinegar, butter, salt, and pepper, if preferred, 
may be used. deteoit, mich. 

VEGETARIAN SCRAPPLE 

1 cupful corn-meal % green pepper 

1 medium sized onion 1 cupful chopped peanuts 

1 carrot 3 teaspoonfuls salt 

Combine the corn-meal, chopped onion, carrot, green pep- 
per, and salt. Cook in three and one-half cupf uls of boiling 
water until thick. Just before removing from the fire, add 
the peanuts. Pour into a greased bread pan and let stand 
until thoroughly chilled. Remove from the mold, slice, dip 
in flour, and saute. Serve with tomato or brown sauce.^ 

HOLLYWOOD, OAL. 



Saucepan Discoveries 

DELICIOUS MEAT FLAVOR— Garlic vinegar makes 
meat rich and tender and gives a flavor hard to define. Pour 
into the pores of the meat as much of the vinegar as it will 
absorb. Then brash over with olive oil. It is more eco« 
nomical to make one's own garlic vinegar. Place in a quart 
bottle a small clove of garlic. Fill the bottle with vinegar. 
After about ten days it is ready to use. cIl. 

A NOVEL GARNISH— An attractive garnish for cold 
meats or salads may be made by rolling tightly several large 
lettuce leaves and keeping them in a cold place until needed. 
When ready to serve, cut the roll into half -inch pieces, and 
pretty, light-green rosettes will be the result, which add 
greatly to the appearance of the dish. ill. 

WHEN BAKING FISH— When baking fish, I place under 
it several strips of clean white cloth wrung out in cold water 
and extending a little beyond the fish. It is then easy to lift 
it up to the hot platter when ready to be served without the 
fish getting torn or broken apart. This suggestion is also 
good with a meat or fish loaf. Strips of doth fitted in the 
pan, some of them crossing at right angles, will assist in 
bringing the loaf out safely. mass. 

A NEW CHOCOLATE ICING— I found this chocolate 
icing so delicious and different that I hasten to pass it on 
to others. Use the following proportions : to one-half cupful 
of confectioners' sugar add six tablespoonfuls of cocoa, three 
drops of olive-oil with a pinch of salt, and one-quarter tea- 
spoonful of vanilla. Add sufficient boiling water to make a 
thick, smooth paste and spread on the cake. Try this recipe 
and see if it has not a new taste for you. CEAU 

180 



Becipes and Household Discoveries 181 

QUICK POTATO SOUP— This recipe for potato soup is 
extremely satisfying, and I use it often when the rest of my 
dinner is rather light. To one cupful of half -inch cubes of 
potato add one and one-half cupfuls of water and a pinch of 
salt. Boil until tender. In the meantime fry one small onion 
cut into small pieces with one tablespoonful of fat, until 
golden brown in color. When the potatoes are tender, pour 
the liquid into the browned onion and press the potatoes 
through a fine sieve. Add to the liquid together with one- 
half cupful of evaporated milk, one-eighth teaspoonful of 
pepper, and one teaspoonful of salt. Serve hot with or with- 
out croutons. N. j. 

LUKEWARM WATER FOR WASHING VEGETABLES 
— I have found that when washing lettuce and spinach it is 
much better to use lukewarm water. With spinach the luke- 
warm water washes oflE the sand very quickly, and it is not 
necessary to wash the spinach so many times. With lettuce 
the lukewarm water washes off any insects or dirt, but the 
lettuce should be wrapped in a towel and crisped on ice or 
placed in cold water to freshen afterward. mass. 

BAKED MUSKMELON— When you cut a muskmelon and 
find that it is too green to eat, put into each half, one-half 
tablespoonful of butter and a sprinkling of salt and pepper. 
Bake as if it were a small squash, and you will find that it 
tastes somewhat like one. Or you can cut the melon into thin 
slices, dip them in batter, and fry like eggplant. n. y. 

A PASTRY SPRINKLER— Many women are familiar 
with the perforated aluminum cork-fitted top used on a bottle 
to sprinkle clothes. I have found a new use for it. When 
mixing pastry, it is difficult to add the water in small enough 
quantities to distribute it evenly without making parts of lie 
mixture too wet. The sprinkler has solved that problem for 
me. Measure the desired amount of liquid, place it in the 
bottle, and it can then be sprinkled over tiie pastry easily 
and evenly. n. y. 

FOR A GARNISH — ^While vacationizing, I was served king 
salmon garnished in a most attractive manner. Very thin 
diocB of lemon had one-half of the surface covered with finely 



182 Recipes and Household Discoveries 

minced parsley and the other half thickly powdered with 
paprika. The yellow rind contrasted prettily with the green 
and red of the other ingredients. ill. 

TO DRAIN SPINACH— In removing spinach from the 
kettle in which it has been cooked, nse a skimmer instead of 
pouring off the water. In this way any sand that has not 
been removed in the ''seven washings" will drop to the bot- 
tom of the Kettle. md. 

TO SAVE TIME AND TINS— In addition to using stone 
jars for packing egg' in water glass, I now use all the empty 
cans which once held lat or shortening. These I have stored 
in the basement, but keep one can of eggs in the pantry for 
immediate use, thus saving many trips to the basement, gaxj. 

HOW TO USE SWEET PICKLING SIRUP— After eat- 
ing our sweet pickled pears, we used to use the sirup left in 
the jars for baked beans, etc. Lately we have discovered 
that by cutting up apples and using the pickling sirup, we 
have an especially fine apple sauce. We cook the two to- 
gether, and it tastes like the old-fashioned boiled cider apple 
sauce. No additional sugar is required. mass. 

HOW TO POACH EGGS— After struggling for years to 
poach eggs the hotel way, I was told by a chef to put a tea- 
spoonful of vinegar in the water and cover the pan. The 
vinegar keeps the white of the egg from spreading, and the 
covered pan makes the white cook over the yolk. Try it and 
see. PA. 

NEW CREAMED CARROTS— I have discovered by ac- 
cident that one-fourth teaspoonful of ground clove added to 
one pint of cream sauce for creamed carrots adds greatly to 
their flavor. N. y. 



Discoveries 
From Kitchen to Garret 



TO CLEAN A BEOILER PAN— I have discovered an 
easy way of cleaning my broiler pan. Just before placing 
the meat on the broiler rack, I cover the bottom of the broiler 
pan with water, thus allowing the fat from the meat to drip 
into the water. This does away with the usual smoky kitchen, 
aii3 the fat never catches fire. When cleaning the pan, the 
water may be allowed to cool and the fat easily removed to 
be used as shortening or for frying purposes. If the fat is 
not to be saved, throw the water away immediately, after 
completing the broiUng of the meat, and the pan may be 
cleaned with very little effort. N. H^t 

AN EXCELLENT IRONING SURFACE— To make an 
ironing board on which it is a joy to iron, take one roll of 
cotton battiag such as is used for comforts and puffs. Spread 
the cotton batting evenly over the board and fasten over this 
a cover made from unbleached muslin, tacking it down around 
the sides of the board. An extra length of muslin or un- 
bleached cotton which can easily be washed should be used 
as an outer cover. an. 

A HELP FOR THE SHOPPER— I keep a drawer in 
my chiffonier empty just to catch the things I shall need on 
my next shopping expedition — ^a bit of lace tQ be matched, 
an iron to be repaired, shoes to be soled, a picture to be 
framed. You know the thousand and one things you have 
to scurry around after at the last minute. My plan is to 
drop these things in this drawer as they come to my notice. 
When the time comes for me to take them, I can get them 
together in record time. This saves nerves as well as time. 

Hn» 
183 






184 Good Housekeepino's Book of 

FOR THE RECIPE FILE— In the interest of economy 
I have gone over all of my recipes in the card index and 
made sab-titles for easy reference to such things as egoless 
cakes, one-e^ recipes^ recipes calling for the whites of eggs 
only, those in which the yolks alone are used, and those in 
which sour milk is an ingredient Other classifications sug- 
gest themselves from time to time. Recently I have added 
a list of company dishes, ten-minute dishes from the emergency 
shelf, foods that may be made in quantity, and Sunday night 
suppers. One of my cards is devoted to the likes and dislikes 
of my friends in the culinary line, thus enabling me to play 
the part of hostess with greater precision. high. 

THE TYPEWRITER IN THE KITCHEN— Before I 
was married I used a typewriter professionally. After I was 
married I found that the only place I had in my apartment 
for the typewriter was a small table in the kitchen. Now I 
often wonder how other women do without a machine. I make 
out my laundry lists, I copy recipes on my cards that slip 
into my card catalogue, I make out my grocery lists, and often 
I write letters or copy work for my husband while the meat 
is cooking. If the machine were in the front of the house, 
I should not make nearly so much use of it. mass. 

A SUSPENDED GARBAGE PAIL CANNOT SPILL— 
Better than all the patented unspiUable garbage pails on the 
market is an ordinary one suspended two feet from the ground. 
Every one in the country or village has been bothered by 
prowling dogs spilling the contents of the garbage pail aU 
over the porch or back yard. One housewife solved the prob- 
lem by putting a hook in the branch of a tree and tying a 
length of rope to it. Then to the end which hung within two 
feet of the ground, she attached a large hook upon which the 
pail was placed. The garbage collector never finds this par- 
ticular pail molested by dogs, nor does he have to bend over 
to pick it up. Best of all, however, the housewife does not 
have to clean up spilled garbage every now and then. n. y. 

FOR RIPENING FRUIT OR VEGETABLES— When 
ripening fruit or vegetables in the house, I place them ov^ 
a wire cake rest, which is slightly raised from the surface of 
the taUe. In this way the air completely surrounds the fruit 



Begipbs and Household Disgovebies 185 

or vegetables, and there is no trouble of turning them over, 
and no bruises resulting from the pressure of a peach or 
tomato on a hard, flat surface. mass. 

PUMPKEN "NUTS"— Recently I served an entirely orig- 
inal salad, which proved so delicious that my guests insisted 
upon knowing what kind of nuts I had used. I rather proudly 
confessed that the "nuts" were nothing at all but the inside 
of the seeds removed from a large pumpkin the last time I 
made pumpkin pie. The rest of the salad was tart apples 
cut in cubes and served with French dressing. ODL. 

TO CLEAN THE FOOD-GRINDER— Try cleaning the 
food-grinder with the little brush that comes with the coffee 
percolator, and see what a great help it is. cal. 

TO KEEP BROWN SUGAR MOIST— I happened to 
place a pound of brown sugar which had become very hard 
in a covered dish with prunes. When I took the sugar out 
later, I found it as soft as when purchased. Any fruit wUl 
yield the same moisture and suggests a sure method for keep- 
ing the sugar moist. mass. 

A NEW WELSH RAREBIT— Did it ever occur to you 
to try croutons in place of toast when serving Welsh Rarebit? 
Cut the bread into small dice and fry or toast in the oven 
until dry and crisp. Sprinkle plenty of them on each plate 
and serve the Welsh Rarebit over them. Croutons give just 
tiie proper crunchy background for the rarebit and can be 
eaten ei^y without the dangers that lurk in the hidden slice 
of toast. o. 

WHEN COOKING FISH— The smell of fish often lingers 
in a pan in which it has been cooked, and is very disagreeable. 
If the pan is filled with water to which two or three table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar have been added, and is allowed to stand 
or, better, to boil a minute «0r two before washing, the o4or 
will quickly disappear. D. a 



Discoveries for the Hostess 



NOVEL PLACE-CARDS— When giving a dinner, I found 
that I had no place-cards of any kind in the house, so I set 
about to make some myself. I cut up some green cardboard 
three inches by one and one-half inches. Then I opened" a 
package of soup noodles containing the tiny white letters of 
the alphabet. These can be purchased at practically any 
grocery store. I pasted these letters on the green cards with 
Ubrary paste, spelling out thp names of the guests, one on 
each cai^. These place-cards were put on the napkin at the 
side of each plate. None of the company could guess how I 
procured the raised letters spelling their names, and much 
amusement and admiration was afforded. If the cardboard 
matches the color scheme of the table decoration, you could 
not ask for daintier place-caids. mich. 

A CHARMING USE FOR CANDLESTICKS— Recently, 
at a delightful ''at home" at an old farmhouse, I saw a 
charming use made of our hostess' many old candlesticks. 
Refreshments were served on several quaint little tables, and 
on each table was a candlestick, and occasionally a candelabra^ 
with little vials filled with sweet peas inst^ul of candles. 
Upon inquiry, I learned that the vials were the straight, 
perfectly plain test-tubes designed for laboratory use. They 
may be or usually are bought at a drug store. In aU the 
chambers were candlesticks filled with flowers and little vines 
suited to the decoration of the room. This seemed a dainty 
way of using the candlesticks which so many of us have. mass. 

A COTTON WEDDING— The table decorations for this 
wedding anniversary were unusually clever, I thought. T'he 
young hostess used a red bandana handkerchief for a center- 
piece, and in the middle of it she placed a bale of cotton 
that she had made from cotton batting and burlap. This 

186 



Beoipes akd Household Discoyebies 187 

was about the size of a brick, and standing on it was a little, 
jointed pickaninny groom and bis bride, in cotton clothes 
but wearing a taU silk hat and a veil. From their hands 
to each cover extended strands of red darning cotton, fastened 
to small baskets the shape of the cotton bai^et of the Soutb. 
These contained salted nuts, but on top of them, covering the 
nuts, was more cotton. The first course was a circle of little 
round balls cut from a watermelon with a vegetable cutter, 
around a mound of powdered sugar on the top of which were 
perched tiny licorice dolls. The main course was fried chicken, 
candied sweet potatoes, and beaten biscuits. penn. 

MUTUAL ASSISTANCE IN ENTERTAINING— Ineffi- 
cient help made formal entertaining a nightmare of nervous 
strain aiui uncertain disaster, until a friend of mine and I 
hit upon a plan of mutual assistance. Now, when I am giving 
a formal dinner, my friend arrives about an hour before the 
time set for dinner. When she has made herself familiar 
with the details of the menu and its service, I have no further 
responsibility about the meal. "When the guests have arrived, 
she superintends the serving of the various courses and sees 
that all is done properly, thus leaving me to enjoy my guests 
with a tranquil mind. When she entertains, I perform the 
same service for her. Neither of us finds this an arduous 
task, and entertaining has become a real joy instead of a 
bugbear. mich. 

FOR THE CHILDREN'S PARTY— For a children's 
party we made twelve small, blue linen beanbags, marking 
each one with a cross-stitch combination of letters for each 
little guest. At the conclusion of the bean-bag tossing each 
child was presented with his own bag to take home. The 
favors cost little and took but little trouble to put together 
and the pleasure they gave was out of all proportion, mich. 

FOR THE BRIDAL SHOWER— A box of the homelier 
linen for kitchen use is sure to meet with enthusiastic accept^ 
ance at a bride's shower. The one in question contained 
half a dozen each of glass towels, china towels, dusters, and 
dish-cloths, besides a floor cloth and two roller towels. The 
cheesecloth dusters were f eatherstitched with blue cotton, the 
borders of all the towels were in blue, and each package was 



188 Bbcipbs and Household Discoveribs 

tied with blue ribbon to give a festive appearance to the box 
in which they just fitted. N. Y. 

THE CHBISTMAS PLACE-GASD— For my Christmas 
place-cards, I bought ten penny postal cards on which were 
pictures of Christmas trees and Santa Claus. With small, 
sharp scissors, I cut out the figures carefully, leaving a small 
piece of the card at the bottom of each figure. Then I folded 
this piece back and pasted the figures on plain visiting cards 
with the name of the guest written on each card. The same 
could be done for children's parties. K. T. 

A NOVEL CAKE COVER— Eighty candles on a cake 
were desired for the centerpiece of the long table for the 
birthday dinner party, but it seemed impossible until some 
one thought of a cake cover. The cake itself was a large, 
old-fashioned fruit cake. The stores were searched until a 
granite pan of the right size and shape was found. The cake 
had been iced as usual. The pan was used bottom side up, 
the bottom and sides covered with a thick layer of plaster of 
Paris and the candles inserted in the plaster in a planned 
pattern. The plaster was put on in small sections and the 
candles inserted quickly to prevent its becoming too hard. 
After the plaster was dry, a thin coating of icing was put 
over the plaster, and a design tubed around the candles to 
prevent any roughness being noticeable. The cake was placed 
on a round cake board on the table, the plaster candle cover 
put over it and smilax at the base. The eighty candles, 
yellow in color and about three inches in height, were very 
effective. A gasp of surprise went around the table when at 
the proper moment the cover was lifted and the cake remained 
on the table intact. This idea can be worked out for smaller 
cakes. N. T. 



Cooking Discoveries 

A NEW BIRTHDAY CAKE— The birthday cake for my 
small daughter, this year, elicited such favorable comment 
from the grown-ups who saw it that I felt the idea might be 
a "discovery" on my part. I covered the cake with boiled 
icing and let it harden. Then I took a water-color brush, 
dipped it into melted chocolate, and made a border of small 
objects in silhouette — cats, birds, etc. — ^around the sides of 
the cake. As the day was very near Christmas, I painted a 
Christmas tree on top with the small girl's name and age. 
The tiny candles on the top and a spray of smilax around 
the base made the whole quite eflfective. The joy of the 
youngsters was unbounded, and they insist3d upon turning 
the cake around and around, shouting over each new dis- 
covery. CMS. 

MASHED RICE AND POTATOES— In an attempt to 
economize in the use of potatoes, I discovered that a whole- 
some and appetizing dish may be prepared by using a com- 
bination of potatoes and rice. Use four medium-sized pota- 
toes to one-half cupful of rice. Boil the potatoes and the rice 
separately until tender. Mash and season the potatoes, then 
add the rice, and beat until smooth and creamy. The result- 
ing dish is hard to distinguish from one composed wholly of 
potatoes, and the taste is just as satisfying. mass. 

TO KEEP MY RECIPES CLEAN— The cooking recipes 
from my filing case came back from the kitchen so defaced 
that they could be used only a few times before having to be 
replaced. What was far worse, they were often lost through 
neglect in their prompt return. I bought a photographer's 
printing frame large enough to hold two recipes, and sent 
them to the cook in that. I had no more trouble, and the 
maid was delighted with the arrangement, for she could 

189 



190 Good Housekeepino's Book of 



liandle the frame freely with floury handSi knowing that a 
damp cloth would remove all mgns of soil. 



The institute uses slate frames which mav be purchased ior 
about twenty-five cents apiece, each frame holding one or two 
recipes according to their size. 

BACONIZED MACAEONI AND CHEESE— Our famfly 
enjoys baked macaroni with cheese much better when strips 
of raw bacon are placed over the top of the dish just before 
putting it in the oven. mass. 

NEW USE FOR GEM PANS— <lrease your gem pans 
and use them when baking apples, green peppers, tomatoes, 
onions, etc. It keeps these fruits and vegetables in much 
better shape, and they look more appetizing when served. 

HIGH. 

TO DROP THE COOKIES EASILY— When making 
cookies or drop cakes^ try using a teaspoon. Dip it in hot 
or cold water each time before putting in the mixture, and 
the dough will slide from the spoon without the aid of a 
knife or other spoon to push it. ms. 

TO CUT MARSHMALLOWS— I recently found a way 
to cut marshmallows into tiny pieces without having them 
stick to the scissors. I dip my scissors into very cold, prefer- 
ably ice-cold water and use them without drying. It is pos- 
sible to cut six or eight marshmallows without again dipping 
the scissors. The work may be done very rapidly, as the 
marsAimallows do not stick to the scissors. ia. 

A NEW WAT TO SERVE CORN FLAKES— Serving 
com flakes with a tablespoon is always a slow and difficult 
task and usually results in many flakes spilled. On our 
breakfast table we now have a large glass pitcher full of 
com flakes and pour them from this into the sauce dishes. 
The glass pitcher of com flakes looks very attractive and 
reduces to a minimum the serving problem. mass. 

TO VARY FRENCH DRESSING— Have you tried using 
for salads your relishes and chow-chow that you have put 



Becipes and Household Discovbbies 191 

f i up this fall ? Put two or three tablespoonfuls in your French 

i dressing and pour it over a head of crisp lettuce. You will 

be surprised how good it is, and if it is the last of a jar 

and is quite moist, just mix your oil with the vinegar from 

the pickles. n. y. 

A PLANNED LUNCHEON— Do you realize how many 
housewives, when they must eat alone at noon time, are apt 
to eat in the kitchen, or not at all, because it is too much 
trouble for one person? I have worked out a very nice plan 
for mjrself. I carry a tray to the silver drawer, take the 
necessary silver for my lunch, put the necessary dishes on it, 
and take the thuigs I need from the icebox, putting my 
dessert on at the same time. Then I take my tray into the 
dining-room and enjoy my lunch. "When I have finished, I 
carry my tray with me, putting things in their proper places. 
I wonder if you realize how many, many steps this saves, 
and how little time it takes. pa. 

TO REMOVE PAPER FROM DATES— Take oflf the 
cardboard wrapping and place the package of dates in a 
warm oven for a few minutes. The paper comes oflE like 
magic, and the dates are softened just enough to come apart 
and stone easily, without being at all sticky. gold. 

HOW TO KEEP OILED PAPER— I have discovered a 
simple and satisfactory way of handling oiled paper. I un- 
roll the sheets and fasten one end of all of them into a skirt- 
hanger with felt grips and hang it on a nail on one side of 
the cupboard. When I want a sheet, instead of the old way 
of unrolling all the sheets to get one, I simply slip one out 
of the skirt-hanger. mink. 

RICE AND PEANUT BUTTER, A NEW COMBINA- 
TION — ^Boil one-half cupful of rice until tender, in boiling, 
salted water. Pour over it one pint of thin white sauce, to 
which one-half cupful of peanut butter has been added. 
You wUl find this a tasty combination. wash. 



Summer Discoveries 



FOB THE OABBAOE PAIL— I have found the foUqw- 
ing discovery a great help in ridding the garbage pail of all 
flies large or smaU, as well as removing any objectionable odor 
abont the can. Cut a piece of thin cloth jnst large enough 
to cover the opening of the garbage can. Wet this doth 
slightly in kerosene and spread over the top of the can with 
the cover on top of the cloth. Renew the wetting with kero- 
sene once every two weeka iiiL. 

FOR THE KIDDIES' SAND-BOX— Nothing gives more 
pleasure in the sand-box than a number of assorted spoons, 
but they are very easily lost when the children are playing. 
So I tie a half -yard of bright baby ribbon, red for the boy 
and yellow for the girl, on the handle of each spoon. Now, 
no matter how deep the spoons are buried, there is always 
a bit of ribbon visible to trace the spoon by. caij. 

WAX TOUR PORCH FLOORr-In the summer I have 
my porches thoroughly scrubbed and washed. Then I have 
them waxed with any of the good floor waxes. After this 
treatment the floors are polished with a polishing brush just 
as one would do in polishing hardwood floors. This method 
preserves the floor, and after the porch is treated in this 
manner one does not have to put water on it during the 
entire season. Have the porch gone over daily with a broom 
or a floor mop. Much time is saved thus in hot weather, and 
a porch treated in this manner always looks well. pa. 

ONE MEANS OP MORE PRIVACY— When living in 
apartment houses, as so many do, it is often necessary to 
devise ways and means to secure privacy. We have found 
that by putting a thin coat of good white paint on the out- 
side of the window screens, it is easy to look out, but those 
on the outside can not look in. Try this for yourself. ga. 

192 



Begipes and Housbhold Discovebiss 193 

A HANDY SALT OB PEPPER SHAKER— A handy 
Bait, pepper, or sugar carrier for hiking or camping is made 
by sawing from a bamboo stick a section seven or eight inches 
in length, having a joint in the center. Fill one end with 
salt and the other with sugar or pepper. Then insert a cork 
in each end. ^ o» 

FOR THE TRAVELER— If you are living temporarily 
in a boarding house or doing light housekeeping and must 
use a bathroom with others, you will find the following, a 
great help. Purchase a shallow basket of the sandwich 
variety, place in this the few needful things required daily 
for the toilet — such as soap, a tooth-brush, tooth-paste, pow- 
der, etc. You can hang the basket on your arm and trip off 
to tihe bathroom fully assured that your toilet will not neces- 
sitate two or three trips to your room before you can begin it. 
One is also relieved of the clumsy overcrowding of the hands^ 
which so often means dropping things on the way, and then 
the awkward scramble to recover them in a dimly lighted^ 
dusty hall. Whether the basket is kept on the dresser or in 
a closet, you will never know until you try it how satisfactory 
it is to have these toilet articles grouped together. Such a 
basket may be as decorative as one cares to make it. It may 
revel in ribbons and artificial flowers with color schemes bor- 
rowed from the bedroom of its owner, or it may be as plain as 
mine, wearing a coat of white enamel paint with a white linen 
doily with a scalloped edge in the bottom. conn* 

PICNIC SALAD — When going on little picnic suppers 
— especially in a machine, where one eats by the roadside or 
in the car seat — ^individual paper drinking cups are most 
satisfactory as containers for salads. The salad may be 
packed in the individual paper cups and garnished attrac- 
tively with a sprig of parsley stuck in one side. They always 
call forth favorable comments and are not messy to handle, 
and each person has his own portion easily handed out. d. g. 

QUICK CLEANING— White shoes are too comfortable 
and popular to be discarded, and yet it is very difficult to 
keep them immaculate, particularly children's shoes. I keep 
a piece of magnesia available at all times; then if the toes 
of the children's i^oes become discolored, grass-stained, or 



194 Bbcipes Ain> Household Discoverzbs 

mud-Bplaahedy I quickly rub over the spot with magnesia so 
that the shoes do not look untidy until the entire shoe can be 
cleaned at night. A large piece of magnesia can be purchased 
at any drug store for five or ten cents. mass. 

FOB THE WINDOW SCREENS— If the screens and 
casings of windows are lightly rubbed over with a cloth 
moistened in kerosene every day or two, the flies will not 
collect on the outside of the doors ready to swarm in the 
instant the doors are open. This is a particularly easy y^y 
of keeping flies out of the house where there are small cMldren 
running in and out. Not enough kerosene should be applied 
to be noticeable by anybody but the flies. wash. 

FOB THE CANNING SEASON— Last year, when we 
were urged to can quantities of everything, the problem of 
8u£Scient containers plus the expense for only a few seasons' 
use, confronted me. Finally, I assembled quite an array of 
the little jars which one buys from time to time containing 
peanut butter, prepared mustard and horseradish, fancy 
pickles, and relishes, and was only discouraged when I found 
how difficult it was to get the marmalade, butters, and chili 
sauce into them. The fruit jar funnel was too large, and an 
ordinary funnel too small. While casting about for an 
inspiration, my glance rested upon an inverted cakepan in 
which an angel cake was cooking, and there was my answer ! 
The center tube provided just tiie funnel I needed. Also, 
the bottom of the inverted pan saved the loss of many » 
spoonful. lA. 



^^Keeping Fit^^ Discoveries 

A DAT OFF FOB MOTHER— Like most housekeepers 
I long pondered on the fact that in my home I never had a 
moment when I was really relaxed and free from the feeling 
that at any minute I might be called upon. Even when in 
my own bedroom, some of the family were sure to burst in 
with a momentous question to be answered at once. And yet 
I would not have had it otherwise. One of the dearest things; 
in my life is the fact that the first words my husband 
and children utter upon entering the house are ''Where i» 
mother r* Not Jor eons of rest would I curb their habit of 
pouring out to me the day's adventures; not for worlds 
would I discourage my husband in the belief that my office 
from the time he arrives in the evening is to talk to him, to 
listen to him, or just to sit beside him. For this is my office: 
to be all that a mother and wife may be to her family. But 
the conviction has certainly been growing upon me that I 
would fill it better if I did not fill it so continuously. I 
turned the matter over in my mind until I hit upon a solution 
so simple that I wonder that I had not thought of it before. 
I would take a day off. Not a day in the city, nor one of 
social diversion, but a day of absolute rest at home. I chose 
Friday, because by that time the week's duties are well out 
of the way, and because Saturday and Sunday are my most 
strenuous days. 

Immediately after lunch on Fridays I retire with instruc- 
tions that I am out to all callers and the phone, and that 
unless the house is actually in flames no one is to come to my 
door. If you have not tried it, you simply can not imagine the 
bliss of knowing that for the next nine hours you will not 
hear a human voice. I put on a frivolous dressing-gown and 
slippers and go to sleep in the unspeakable delight of feeling 
that I do not have to awaken until the next morning. So» 
of coarse, I do awaken in about an hour, very much ref reshed^ 

105 



106 QooD Housbkbeping's Book of 

and then I revel in my ease. I manicure my nails; I cdd- 
eream my face; I read the magazines and the new books. 
At four o'clock there is a tap at my door. I open it leisnrelyy 
and thonfi^ no one is in sight, the tea tray reposes before me 
with its fat little pot and its plate of toast. I drink my tea 
slowly and then sit down to write a long, newsy letter to a 
ooUege friend whose letters, before the new r%ime, I just 
never had time to answer. At six-thirty there comes another 
tap, and my dinner is before me. It is part of the game that 
my children, who bring up my trays, never allow me to see 
them doing it. At ten o'clock I emerge to say good-night 
to my family, and the holiday is over for another week. It 
is a splendid plan. Never since I was married have I done 
80 much work wilhout getting tired; never have I been so 
well posted on current writing and events. And it has 
advantages that I did not foresee when I instituted it. 

At dinner on Friday night my twelve-year-old daughter 
flits in my place at the table and takes care of her father's 
wants and entertains him. I am sure she is learning, easily 
and naturally, lessons that will stand her in good stead when 
fihe is the head of her own home. After dinner my husband, 
having no wife to turn to, talks to the children more than 
usual. They, having no lessons to prepare, have time to play 
with Dad, and from the sounds that rise dimly to my ears, 
I gather that they are having as good a time without me 
as I am without them. Yes, it is a splendid plan, and I 
pass it on to other women to adjust and modify to suit their 
own needs. I can assure them that it is worth any amount 
of tonics, and I feel that it has helped the rest of the f anuly 
almost as much as it has me. The children are learning 
to cooperate and to take responsibility, and a sweeter air of 
mutual helpfulness has pervaded the household since mother 
began her days off. pa. 

TO CULTIVATE A CLOTHES SENSE— Living in the 
country and not being blessed with ''Clothes sense," I find 
it hard to dress correctly. Once I discovered, after having 
had a hat for a whole season, that I had worn it with the 
front to Uie back. Determined that it should never happen 
again, I now have snapshots taken of my new clothes and 
hats and study the results, comparing the pictures with the 
illustrations on fashion sheets. It is surprising how illu- 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 197 

minating it is. A hat requires setting forward over the face. 
Collars are not even on each side. Skirts are too long and 
tiie narrow ones not pulled down smoothly. Slouching spoils 
the fit of some garments. These are the stories the snapshots 
sometimes tell me, and they have been a great help to me 
in correcting my manner of dress. que. 

TO PREVENT CHAPPED HANDS— Doing my own 
household work, sweeping, dishwashing, etc., always gave 
me chapped hands during the winter months, no matter in 
what quantity or how good the remedy I used for them each 
night, until I thought of liquid soap containers. Now I have 
one over the kitchen sink and one in the bathroom. Each 
one contains a pure glycerin with a few drops of carbolic 
acid and rose water, and it is the simplest matter to put a 
drop on each hand every time I wash my hands. This keeps 
the hands in perfect condition and does not make them sticl^, 
as the moisture from the recent washing prevents this con- 
dition, o. 

SELF-EDUCATION— No doubt there are many married 
women and mothers, too, who feel as I do the desire for some 
sort of educational work, yet can not spare the time or 
strength for going to and from classes. I have achieved the 
same result in taking work by correspondence from our state 
university. Most of the leading universities now offer cor- 
respondence courses in Domestic Science as well as in Liter- 
ature and History, which are a great help to any woman and 
may be continued even after baby comes to the home. By 
going to the university for examination after completing a 
course, credit will be given for regular college work, and the 
inspiration obtained by the close contact with the personality 
of the instructor through weekly letters of instruction is often 
greater than ^e classroom affords. wis. 



Every-Day Discoveries 

TO KEEP THE LAUNDRESS HAPPY— My lanndrew 
has f oraakai many of her places and stayed with me despite 
the heavy wash. In common with most people she is very 
fond of mnsic, and while she is ironing in the kitchen, I 
wheel the victrola into the dining-room and play onr best 
records. Not only does she appreciate it keenly, bnt I believe 
she accomplishes more than die would in a quiet alanoB- 
phere. n. j. 

A NEW USE FOR SANDPAPEI^-The screw top on my 
oil stove tank had tightened so that I could not unscrew it. 
I had no wrench, and even a wrench would have bent the tin. 
Quick mental searching led me to get a piece of sandpaper, 
which I held in my hand over the screw top, and I found 
that it turned with little effort. fla. 

FOR FILLING TOUR OIL STOVE— For the oil stove 
without a strainer on the tank, I have discovered an excellent 
substitute. Have your hardware dealer put a fine-meshed 
wire sieve into the funnel you use to fill the tank with. The 
pipes carrying the oil to the burners will not then become 
clogged with sediment. tez. 

A NEW USE FOR YOUR FIRELESS COOKER RACK 
— It has always been a surprise to me that so few owners of 
fireless cookers know how useful the pie rack is for carrying 
pies for picnic lunches. Slip the pies in and then drop the 
rack into a pail or a pasteboard box. Even the '* open-faced" 
kind may be carried in this way without damage. kans. 

HOW I USE MY ALARM CLOCK— I find that an alarm 
clock can be used during the day as well as to help one rise 
earljr in the morning. Often, when baking, I set it as a 
reminder to look into my oven, when doing bits of work in 

19S 



Becipes and Household Discoveries 199 

another part of the house. This saves many a cake from 
scorching. Frequently I have just a few minutes to lie down 
and relax. I set the alarm clock at the time I must go to 
work again, and find that the rest is more beneficial when 
I do not have to worry about resting too long. I also use 
my alarm clock in taking doses of medicine which come 
several hours apart. The alarm clock has become a most 
valuable household article. gal. 

A SUGGESTION FOR IRONING— I find a thick pad 
made about three times the size of an ordinary holder a 
most useful article. I keep it with the ironing board, and 
when I have a bit of embroidery such as is often found on 
a towel, a collar, or underwear, I press it on this pad, and 
the embroidery stands out beautifully. mass. 

HEMMING TABLE-CLOTHS— When preparing to hem 
table linen, save all the threads that are pulled in straighten- 
ing the edge. Then, when the linen comes to the mending 
stage, use these threads you have saved to dam it with. The 
result is that the mended place is scarcely noticeable because 
of the linen thread being used instead of cotton. ia. 

TO HELP WITH THE MENDING— Before sending the 
laundry I always check off on the list each article that needs 
mending. Then I do not have to unfold all the things after 
they are ironed, to find which ones are in need of repairs. 

CONN. 

HOW TO WASH WINDOWS RAPIDLY— A profes- 
sional house cleaner once told me how to wash my wmdows 
easily and rapidly. Use a piece of chamois skin about fifteen 
to eighteen inches square. Use warm water, wring out the 
chamois lightly, and wash over the window. Then wring the 
chamois out of water until as dry as possible, and rub over 
the window. This will take off all moisture, and there will 
be no lint left. The windows will shine, and once tried, you 
will never wash your windows by the old way. s. d. 

SAVE ALL SCRAPS OF TOILET SOAP— Save aU 
scraps of toilet soap and shaving soap. When you have 
accumulated a sufficient quantity, put them on the stove with 



200 Recipes and Household Discovebies 

water enough to cover. Let boil slowly until they fonn a 
thick man^ then pour into a square pan, and when partly 
oool, cut into squares. This makes an excellent bath soap or 
soap for toilet uses when it has dried for two weeks. & b. 

NEVER MISS TOUR TRAIN— My husband has very 
irregular office hours and never knew, when he left the office, 
what train he could get home. You wUl naturally say, ''Why 
doesn't he carry a time-tablet" and I shall answer, ''Because 
he is averse to carrying any excess baggage in his pockets." 
So I devised a scheme whereby he does not have to rua to 
the station only to find that he has ten minutes to spare, or, 
on the other hand, meander to the depot only to find that 
he has just missed a train. I have him buy his commutation 
ticket a day or so before the first of the month, and then I 
typewri te on the back of it tiie leaving time of all the trains 
iLat stop at our station. By quickly referring to his watch 
and then his ticket, which he always has handy, he is able 
to decide how many more minutes he can spend at the office 
and still have time to buy the evening paper and get the train. 
So now he is able to utilize a greater part of his time either 
at the office or at home, instead of wasting a few moments 
now and a few more tiien, waiting in the railroad station. 

N. Y. 

TO WASH COLORED FABRICS— In order to preserve 
the delicate colors in wash frocks, I select a warm, sunshiny 
day. After the dress has soaked in salt water — ^if this is its 
first bath — I quickly wash it, hang it on a wire coat-hanger, 
and attach it to the limb of a shade tree. The dress may be 
pulled into shape, and if stretched downward, will shrink 
very Uttle. The warm breeze soon dries it ky. 

TO REMOVE THE WATER MARK PROM A GLASS 
VASE — ^I have discovered that a few drops of olive oil or 
any other oil, rubbed inside a glass vase where the water 
mark is evident, will prevent the mark from appearing again. 

MSBR. 



Thrift Discoveries 



TO IRON NAPKINS— I get the best resnilts in ironing 
napkins by what may seem a ** lazy-squaw way." When the 
napkins are dry, I do not sprinkle them, but dip and wring 
out every third napkin in clear, warm water. I place each 
wet napkin between two dry ones, fold, and roll the three 
napkins tightly together. In twenty minutes they will be 
ready to iron, all equally damp from hem to center. Next, 
fold each napkin right side out, with hems together, and iron 
double till dry. In this way the comers are easily kept 
square, and a good gloss is secured. Of course, when there 
is embroidery it must be pressed from the wrong side first. 

NEBR. 

TO STEENGTHEN A SCALLOP— When button-holing 
a scallop on fine material, I stitch around the entire scallop- 
ing with the machine. This strengthens and prevents any 
tearing between scallops. It has proved a quicker way than 
any I have tried. b. c. 

WASHING WOODWORK— I save time when washing 
woodwork in my home by using a piece of tin about twelve 
inches long to protect the wall-paper from the wet doth. 
I move it along the wall above the board while I work. At 
first I tried cardboard, but the dampness soon caused the 
paper to rub off, while the tin lasts indefinitdy. oonn. 

NETTING FOR BABY CARRIAGE— In criticism of the 
familiar discovery of a mother who had proved l^e value of 
dark green mosquito netting in place of white for tiie baby's 
carriage the Discovery Editor would add the caution that the 
netting should be fastened with thumb tacks or have an elas- 
tic run through the edge, so that it would be held taut and 
fhe baby could not reach it. The green netting overcomes the 

201 



202 OOOD IIOUSEKEEPINO'S BOOK OF 

son's glare and is too beneficial to the child's eyes to be dis- 
carded without an endeavor to nse it with safety to his 
precious little stomach. thb EorroR. 



AN ADJUSTABLE APBON— Long experience in selling 
aprons at a church fair has shown me that the slip-over b£ 
apron with strings is the best seller. But often the length 
of the bib is not right, and this causes the loss of a si^le. 
At our last bazaar we made the bibs adjustable. Each one 
was cut four inches longer than the pattern and simply basted 
in place on the belt. When a prospective purchaser slipped 
it on, the bib was properly adjusted and then immediately 
stitched into place on tiie church sewing machine. wash. 



A SEWING HELP— Both time and trouble are saved 
by simply placing an ordinary three-arm towel-rack above 
the right end of the sewing-machine. On this rack can be 
hung the sewing-tape, et cetera, and pieces of unfinished goods 
which otherwise slip on the floor beneath the machine. With 
this time-saver, the machine must be kept in its permanent 
position where the rack will always serve it. n. y, 

MASCULINE APRONS— A study of my laundry list re- 
vealed the fact that men's aprons cost three cents each to 
launder — ^they are done fiat — ^while the smaUest amount for 
which women's aprons are done is ten cents. So I have 
bought a dozen butcher's aprons, small size, on sale at nine- 
teen cents, and am using them for kitchen purposes. I keep 
fhem fresh and white at a total cost of forty-five cents a month 
—one apron every two days. CAii. 

MEASURING SHORTENING— My best discovery is a 
quick way to measure shortening. When one-half cup of 
^ortening is called for, I fill the measuring cup one^half full 
of water, then drop in shortening until the water comes to 
the top. Drain this off, and one-half cup of shortening 
remains. It takes far less time than to pack it down into 
the cup, and it really conserves fat, because there is none lost 
by sticking to the sides of the cup. wis« 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 203 

TO DARN STOCKINGS— To the mother who has her 
boy's stockings to darn, let me suggest a real time-saver. Use 
black mosquito netting as a foundation. ida. 

FOR THE ENTERTAINER— A friend of mine who 
entertains a great deal has lightened the labor of serving by 
having light trays of thin white pine made to fit her card 
tables. These are finished with a narrow molding, then are 
stained. While the last game is in progress, the trays are 
laid with linen covers and served. They are so light that 
the maid can easily bring in one tray at a time and remove 
them when the refreshments have been partaken of. tex. 

FOR THE MAGAZINE CLUB— We have made a rule 
that has proved so universally popular that it deserves to 
be passed on. Instead of each member delivering the mag- 
azine to the next member on her list, we place the burden 
of obtaining the magazine upon the latter. Each member must 
go and get her magazine. This plan has surprisingly reduced 
the number of complaints from lack of promptness. cold. 

A TIME-SAVING LUNCHEON— When I need to get a 
hurry-up luncheon, I nearly always make cheese timbales and 
in this way: Butter as many individual timbale molds as 
there are people to serve ; slice into them small bits of cheese 
till one-third full. Allow one-third cupful of milk for every 
two timbales, in the proportion of one cup of milk to two 
eggs. Beat the eggs and milk with salt and pepper to season ; 
then pour it over the cheese, filling each dish not quite to 
the top, since they swell in cooking. Place the molds in a 
pan of hot water, cover closely, and let come to a boil. Next 
put a small tin oven over the second burner and slide in 
some bread to toast. Just as soon as the water around the 
timbales boils and the custards begin to **set,'^ remove the 
pan, still covered, to the top of the tin oven, where it con- 
tinues to cook as well as, if not better than, over the burner. 
This leaves one burner free to heat water for tea or cocoa. 
Meantime the table can be set and a quick salad may be made. 
But the main part of the luncheon consists of the timbales 
garnished with parsley and toast. If you serve the timbale^ 
in the molds, you may use the milk and eggs in the pro- 
portion of one cup of milk to one egg. Thus with a two- 



2M Baoipn amd Housbhold Disgovebihb 

burner oil or gu stOYe, a meal both appetiziiig and nou 
ing 18 prepared in a remarkably short time. 

AN ICE-BAa FOB THE THBOAT— I nse a fifteen- 
inch length of the inner tube of a bicyde tire for a makeshift 
ice-bag. One end of it can be aeeorely sealed with surgeon's 
tape, while the other diould be left op^i for filling with the 
ice. Close it with a temporary seal of surgeon's tape. ia. 






>■, 









<•* ^*Home Helps'^ Discoveries 

MAKING ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES MORE CON- 
VENIENT — In our home the lighting fixtures were so high 
up that it was with difficulty that I could attach electric 
appliance cords to them. I also objected to seeing these un- 
sightly cords so prominently displayed when using any elec- 
tric devices. I called an electrician and asked him if he 
could not run wires up to the bottom of my table from the 
floor and arrange several places for attaching appliances 
underneath the table at the place I occupy, at the same time 
having them concealed by the table edge. This he did by 
parting the seams of my rugs directly under the center of 
the table and running a cord from the floor outlet to the 
bottom of my dining-room table. He wired it in such a way 
that I now have two outlets with iswitches for the attachment 
of appliances underneath the edge of my table. I can use 
both of these outlets at one time for electrical appliances and 
only use attachment cords about fifteen inches long, which 
are hardly noticeable, especially since the electrician substi- 
tuted white silk covered ones in place of the ordinary black 
ones. By means of a little attachment plug on the cord run- 
ning up from the floor I can easily detach the wire from the 
table when housecleaning. ill. 

MT KITCHEN STOOL— One day last year I happened 
to pass a warehouse just as they were unloading some stools 
with bracket attachments such as are used at the counters in 
many shops. I had an inspiration. Without a moment's 
hesitation I purchased one of them, as it was of oak and 
matched the woodwork in my kitchen perfectly. I could 
scarcely contain my impatience until I got home and put 
that little lifesaver up at the sink where I had so often 
"backached.*' Query: "Why do they always set the sinks 
80 low and the gas fixtures so high in apartments T To return 

205 



206 Good Housekeeping's Book of 

to the stool : I set it up with four screws, and it works like 
a chamu When I am preparing vegetables or washing dishes 
I sit in comfort. When I am through, a push of the knee 
sends the stool out of the way under the sink. Possibly there 
are in many attics the ''makings" of just such a strength- 
saver. One may take the seat off an old revolving piano 
stool, buy a bracket at the hardware store, and achieve the 
same result that I did with the one bought second-handed. 

ILIi. 

TO SECURE ELECTRIC LIGHT SHADES— I have 
found that very often the small shades which one buys at a 
Japanese or art store do not fit securely on a hanging electric 
light. Invariably they fit too low, so that the light shines 
above them, or else they have a tendency to tilt from one 
side to the other. I find that this trouble can readily be 
overcome by the following method: Measure the circum- 
ference of the place on the electric light bulb where you wish 
the shade to rest. Draw a circle of that circumference with a 
compass. Then measure the circumference of the top of the 
shade and draw it a little larger around the first circle. Cut 
out the cardboard doughnut. Unscrew the electric light bulb, 
slip the cardboard doughnut over it, put the shade over both, 
and screw in the bulb once more. n. y. 

A TROUBLE SAVER— I have discovered the great need 
of more than one person in a home being able to turn off the 
water in case the boiler bursts, a catastrophe which hap- 
pened in my home at midnight a short time ago. We were 
kept busy for two hours dipping up water because no one 
knew exactly what to do. Now we have posted a chart plainly 
in sight near the kitchen, indicating where to find the right 
faucet to turn off the cold water and the hot water, and also 
the faucet to empty the boiler in Case of such an accident. 
I am sure that it would be wise for every housekeeper to 
adopt the same plan, for it is indeed a trouble-saver. n. j. 

A KITCHEN *' WINDOW DOOR"— When we built our 
new home, we remodeled the kitchen door in the following 
way: In place of the usual small glass found in such doors 
we had a larger glass built in a hinged frame, making it 
possible to open and shut the *' window door" when desired, 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 207 

much the same idea as a cashier's window. Many times you 
will find it a great convenience to open this window rather 
than the whole door, especially when there are young children 
around. It also saves muddy feet on the kitchen floor, as 
you can receive articles from the deliveries through this 
window. IND. 

TO CLEAN AN ELECTRIC TOASTER— We had always 
experienced great trouble in keeping the framework of our 
electric toaster free from crumbs which collect there with 
each using. Finally we discovered that a flat paint-brush 
such as can be purchased for a very small amount removes 
all traces of crumbs very easily. mass. 

TO INCREASE THE HUMIDITY IN A ROOM— We 
are often advised to use a large bowl or panful of watei 
near a steam radiator or hot air register to counteract the 
excessive dryness of the heat. This is especially imperative 
where there is a piano, violin, or other fine musical instru- 
ment. Last winter I filled my large blue pottery bowl with 
the delicate green vine called Wandering Jew and placed it 
on a table near my steam radiator, renewing the water 
frequently. This vine will grow and spread beautifully in 
water and has the added advantage of not needing daily sun. 
It will do just as well in a dark corner, if that is where* 
your radiator happens to be, with only an occasional visit 
to a sunny window, and at the same time it will light up 
that dark corner wonderfully. A few sprigs of the vine will 
spread rapidly and luxuriantly and will do away with the 
useless look that a plain bowlful of water always has. In 
addition to their decorative value, water bulbs are also a 
useful means of increasing humidity — ^but always choose the 
odorless ones. mass. 

TO REPAIR A CHAIR SEAT— When the cane seat of 
a chair gives out cut a piece of inlaid linoleum two inches 
larger than the opening in the chair. Paint this a leather 
brown on the top and the edge. Let dry for two days; then 
tack in place with regular upholstering tacks. The chairs 
prove very serviceable and attractive. mikk. 



1 » 



What is 
Good Housekeeping Institute? 

Good Houbskkbpiko iNfftiruTi^ which is just one of 
fha mmny depaitments touching every phase of women's 
interests from fashions to foods which are maintained 
by Good Housekeeping, is a highly organized laboratory 
where, for more than twdve years, all kinds of house- 
hold appliances, recipes, and home managing methods 
have been tested under conditions which closely ap- 
proximate those found in the average home. 

Good Housekxepikg Ikstitctb is operated by a staif 
of six ezperts, together with a group of six assistants. 

Two departments 

It is made up of two departments. One is the Depart- 
ment of Household Engineering, which tests new ap- 
pliances and labor saving devices. The other is the 
Department of Cookery, which tests recipes and evolves 
new methods of cookery in a well equipped laboratory 
kitchen. The recipes set forth ia this book represent the 
favorites submitted by Good Housekeeping readers all 
over the country. These recipes, as well as every recipe 
in Good Houseeeefing Magazine, have been thoroughly 
standardized, tested and tasted by the corps of trained 
workers in the Department of Cookery. 

At your service 

The entire staff of both departments of Good House- 
KEEPiKG Institute is entirely at your service at all 
times to assist you in your home-managing problems. 
The service is free to Good Housekeeping readers ; there 
is no obligation of any nature whatsoever. Do not 
hesitate to call upon them. 



INDEX TO BECIPES 



Angel Tip, 1 
Apple CrUsp, 95 

Souffl6. 54 
Apples, Baked de Luxe^ 05 

Fried, with Onions, 97 

Bassian, 97 



Bacon and Com, Camp Style, 

80 
Bacon and Eggs, New Style, 72 
Bananas, West Indian Style, 96 
Banburj Tarts, 120 
Beans, Baked Kidney, 161 

Baked, with Chili Sauce, 160 

Baked, with Samp, 160 

Lima, en Casserole, 169 

Spanish String, 174 
Beef, Casserole of, 103 

Deviled, 105 

"Different" Dried, 105 

Jellied, 107 

Quick, & la Mode, 114 

Scrapple, 102 
Beets & la King, 162 

Baked New, 161 

Flavored, 168 

New, witii Orange Dressing, 171 
Biscuit, Georgia Split, 12 
Biscuits, Caramel, 8 
Bread, Apple Com, 4 

Bishop's, 5 

Bran, with Yeast, 6 

Caraway Bye, 9 

Cora, 10 

Kentucky Spoon, 13 

Oatmeal, 14 

Old-Fashioned Cora, 15 

Olive, 15 

100% Cora, 16 

Portsmouth Corn, 17 

Baisin Cora, 17 
Breakfast Cora and Potatoes, 163 



Cabbage, 164 

And Potatoes, Creamed, 166 

Au Gratin, 164 
Cake, Apple Johnny, 5 

Aunt Bebecca's Old-Fashioned 
SxK)nge, 19 

Boiled Baisin, 20 

Boston, 20 

Chocolate, 20 

Cocoa Apple-Sauce, 21 

Cocoa, 21 

Coconut, 21 

Coffee Cream Sponge, 22 

College Fudge, 22 

Crackling Cora, 10 

"Dom Econ," 23 

Eggless Chocolate, 24 

Eggless Nugget, 24 

Gabrielle, 25 

Qood Inexpensive, A, 19 

Graham Cracker, 25 

Hickory-Nut, 26 

Hot Water Sponge, 26 

IdlewUd Maple, 26 

Johnny, 13 

Light Fruit, 27 

Luncheon, 27 

Measured Pound, 28 

Mother's Pork, 28 

Mrs. Wing's Prune, 29 

Orange, 29 

Orange Chocolate, 30 

Parker House Corn, 16 

Quick Spice, 30 

Baisin, 30 

Strawberry, 31 

Uzbridge Johnny, 17 

White Layer, 31 

Yale Blueberry, 32 
Cakes, Buckwheat, 7 

Buttermilk Wheat, 8 

Carolina Tea, 44 

Coconut^ 34 



209 



210 



Index to Recipes 



Cakes, Codfish, 86 

'•Different" Potato, 167 

Fish Boe, 89 

Tomato Luneheon, 178 
Caramels, 33 
Carrots and Onions, Creamed, 166 

Belgian, 162 

Braised, 162 

New Way to Cook, 172 

With Butter Sauce, 165 
Casserole Flank Steak, 103 
Cauliflower with Onions, Fried, 

168 
Celery au Gratin, 165 
Cheese, Baked, 37 

Cottage, 39 

Cottage, with Dates, 39 

Dainty, 40 

Poor Man's, Pudding, 41 

Pudding, 37 

With Chives, 38 
Chicken, The Way I Fry, 118 
Chinese Chews, 45 
Chocolate Animals, 45 

Nougat, 34 
Chowder, Bean, 152 

Canned Corn and Celery, 153 

Celery, 153 

Delicious Fish, 154 

Grandmother's Parsnip, 156 

Quahaug, 158 

Salt Codfish. 158 

Vegetable, 159 
Clam Griddles, 86 

Pie, 86 
Clams, Baked, Bhode Island Style^ 
84 

Baked Com with, 84 
Cocoa, Iced, 2 

Paste, 1 
Coffee Cream, 56 

Spanish, 68 
Conservation Sweetmeats, 34 
Cookies, Animal, 43 

Brown Sugar, 43 

Chocolate Almond, 45 

Chocolate Caramel, 46 

Chocolate, 46 

Cocoa^ 46 

Hernut, 49 

Oatmeal, I, 50 

Oatmeal, II, 50 



Cookies, Rich, 51 

Sure-to-Like, 51 
Com and Tomatoes, Southern 

Style, 166 
Com Crunch, 35 
Com Flake Date Crackers, 47 

Kisses, 35 
Corn Meal Oyster Fritters, 88 

Veal, 104 
Cream Almond Dates, 35 
Cream French Dressing, 142 
Crumpets, 10 
Custard, Egyptian Caramel, 59 

Macaroon, 62 

Dandelion Cordial, 1 

With Pennsylvania Dutch Dress- 
ing, 143 
Date Crumbles, 57 

Kisses, 35 

Sponge, 58 
Dates, Shredded, 67 
Doughnuts, Buttermilk, I, 43 

Buttermilk, II, 44 

Date, 47 

Easy Baised, 47 

Eggless, Sour-Milk, or Butter- 
milk, 48 

Old-Fashioned New England, 50 

Plain, 51 
Dumplings, Apple, 53 

Jam, 62 

Maple-Sirup, 63 

Boiled Apple, 66 

Eggplant au Gratin, 167 
Eggs, Concordia, 74 

Creole, 74 

Dandy Stuffed, 75 

Mock Turtle, 76 

Poached, with Barebit Sauce. 
76 

Shirred, in Giblet Sauce, 77 

Spanish Scrambled, 78 
Esau's Pottage, 155 
Excellent Cereal Coffee, 2 

TigB and Cheese, 40 
FDling, Creamy, 93 

Sugarless Cake, 94 
Finnan Haddie and Potato, 
Creamed, 89 



Index to Recipes 



211 



"fish with Cheese, Baked, 84 
Flounder, Baked, 85 

Boe, Fried, 89 
Flounders with Parsley Sauce, 90 
Frankfurters and Noodles in To- 
mato Sauce, 81 
Frapp6d Camembert, 40 
Fresh Strawberry Bavarian Cream, 

60 
Fricassee, Beef, 101 

Savory Chicken, 116 
Frosting, Maple, 93 

Quality, 94 
Fudge, Chocolate Mint, 33 

Hinchey, 49 

Gems, Bran, 6 

Buckwheat, 7 

Oatmeal, 15 

Gingerbread, with Apples, 60 
Gingerbread, Cream Bluebmy, 23 

Fairy, 24 

Moist, 28 

Sour Milk, 31 
Ginger Nuts, 48 
Ginger Snaps, 48 
Golden Dressing, 144 
Gooseberry Cream, 61 

Halibut Baked in Milk, 90 
Ham, Baked with Apples, 98 

Baked SUced, I, 100 

Baked Sliced, II, 100 

Fireless Baked, 106 
Hangtown Fry, 81 
Hash, Baked Corned Beef, 98 

English, 106 

Planked Corned Beef, 111 

Vegetable, 179 
Hominy and Sausage, Maryland 
Style, 107 

With Olives, 81 
Hungarian Goulash, 107 

Killicrankers, 49 

Lamb Chops with Green Feppert, 
108 

Sliced, with Onion Sauce, 116 
Lemon Butter, 93 
Lettuce, Club Style, 134 

With Roquefort Dressing, 134 
Liver, Beef, with Onions, 101 



Liver, Baked Calves', 98 
Loaf, An All-Bye, 4 

Berry, 19 

Blueberry, 55 

Beef, 101 

Mutton, 108 

Sausage, 115 

Somerville Meat, 117 
Luncheon Asparagus, 169 

Com, 170 

Dish from Emergency Shelf, 170 

Spinach, 170 

Maryland Sally Lunn, 14 
Mayonnaise, Boiled, 142 
Meringues, Whipped Cream, 71 
Mint Grape Juice, 2 
Mock Chop Suey, 82 

Sweetbreads, 108 
Muffins, All-Corn, 4 

Bread-Bran, 6 

Cocoa, 9 

English, 11 

English Penny, 11 

Grandmother's, 12 

Mrs. Mellick's Corn, 14 

Oatmeal, 15 
Mutton, To Use Left-Over, 118 
"My Meat Cakes," 109 

New England Boiled Dinner, 109 
Codfish Dinner, 90 

Omelet, A Hearty, 75 

Asparagus, Italian, 72 

Bacon and Potato, 72 

Baked Cracker, 73 

Brown-Bread, 73 

Cabbage, 73 

Cheese, 74 

Codfish, 87 

Espagnole, 76 

Spanish, 77 

Spinach, 78 

Swedish, 78 
Onion Savory, 173 
Onions on Toast, 82 
Orange Icing, 94 
Oranges with Veal, Baked, 99 
Oxtail and Spaghetti, 111 
Oyster Pie, 92 
oysters, Catalan, 91 



212 



Indsz to Begifes 



OTvten^ Coneordia Seallopedl, 87 
New Scalloped, 91 
Tripe, 119 

Pamip TnmoTer, 174 
Pannipfl^ Butterleas, 164 

Stewed, 176 
Peaehes, Baked Dried, 96 
Pecan Pralines, 36 
Pie, Apple Lemon, 120 

Apple, with Cream Cheese, 120 

Black-Cap Baspberry, 121 

Butter-Scotch, I, 121 

Butter-Scotch, II, 122 

Cocoa Meringue, 122 

Dinner, 106 

Lemon Apple, 123 

Lemon, 123 

Los Angeles, 123 

Maria's Lemon, 124 

Maryland Com, 171 

Mince, 124 

Mock Cherry, 125 

One Crust Peach, 125 

Orange, 126 

Plain Squash, 126 

Pumpkin, 126 

Sour Cream, 127 

Sour Cream, with Dates, 127 
Pies, Chelsea (Individual), 122 
Pineapple, Baked, 96 

Dressing, 145 
Popovers, 16 
Pork Chops k I'lndienne, 112 

With Apples, Baked, 99 

With Dressing, 112 
Potatoes and Onions, Buttered, 
163 

Cheese, In Jacket, 165 

Delicious, au Gratin, 167 

New, witii Cream Cheese Sauce, 
172 

O'Brien, au Gratin, 173 

Pan Boasted, 173 

Stuffed, 177 

Stuffed Sweet, 177 
Pot Boast, 113 

New, 110 

Porto Bican, 112 

Veal, of, 113 

With Vegetables, 114 
Prunes in Belgian Style, 82 



Podding, Apple Cracker, 53 

Apple Graham Cracker, 54 

Apple Indian, 54 

Baeon Soufi6, 80 

Butter-Scotch, 55 

Chocolate, 56 

Coconut, 56 

Coffee Bice, 57 

Com, 80 

Date, 58 

Delicious Bice, 58 

Eggless Indian, 59 

Bvery-Day Lemon Bice, 60 

Golden, 61 

Indian, 61 

Lemon Meringue, 62 

Marshmallow Caramel, 63 

Orange SoufQ^ Bread, 64 

Bice Macaroon, 66 

Bussian, 67 

Simple Christmas, A, 68 

Surprise, 69 

Taffy, 69 

Thanksgiring Gelatin, 70 
Pumpkin wil£ Tomato, Stewed, 

176 
Punch, Grape, 2 

Tea, 3 

Barebit, Cheese, with Milk, 38 

Chinese, 38 

Combination, 39 

Old-Fashioned, 41 

Bice, 42 
Baspberry Vinegar, 3 
Bice and Cheese, 41 

Charlotte Busse, 65 

Cream, 57 

Luncheon, 40 

Persian, 64 

Pineapple, 64 

Scrambled, and Bacon, 83 

Strawberry, 68 

Surprise, 66 
Bolls, Delicious Quick Tea, 11 

Maple, 13 
Bussian Toffy, 36 

Salad, Asparagus Luncheon, 128 
Banana and Celery, 128 
Bird's Nest, 128 
Butterfly, Individual, 129 



Index to Becipes 



213 



Salad, Candlestiok, 129 

Carrot and Apple, 130 

Club, 130 

Combination, 130 

Cottage Cheese, 130 

Cottage, 131 

Cucumber and Pineapple Jelly, 
131 

Cucumber with Salmon DresB- 
ing, 132 

Date, 132 

Endive Grapefruit, 132 

Fruit, with Pineapple Dressing, 
133 

Individual Sardine and Tomato, 
133 

Italian Egg, 133 

Mixed Vegetable and Egg, 134 

Molded Beet, 135 

Molded Cheeee, 135 

Orange and Date, 136 

Orange and Onion, 136 

Oyster, 136 

Peanut-Bice, 137 

Pecan, 137 

Pineapple, with Golden Dress- 
ing, 137 

Potato and Crab, in Pepper 
Cases, 138 

Summer, 138 

Supper, 139 

Tango, 139 

Waddngton Salmon, 140 

Yellow-Tomato and Chestnut, 
140 
Salad Dressing, Bloater-Paste, 142 

Creole, 143 

Curry, 143 

Eggless Boiled, 144 

Peebee, 144 

Bussian Mayonnaise, 145 

Savory, 145 

Southern Cooked, 145 

Tasty, 146 

Thousand Island, 146 

Uncooked, 146 
Salt Pork with Cream Gravy, 115 
Sandwich, Italian, 149 

9icnic or Camping, 149 

Substantial Camper's, 150 
Sandwieh Filling, Chicken Giblet 
and Egg^ 147 



Sandwich Filling, Delicious^ 147 

Oats and Cheese, 149 

Savory, 150 

Tasty New, 151 
Sandwiches, Creamed Oyster, 147 

Honey and Nut, 148 

Hot Cheese, 148 

Hot Green Pepper, 148 

Piquant Cheese, 150 

Yum-Yum, 161 
Sauce, Maple Apple, 97 
Sausage and Bananas, 115 

With Apples, Baked, 100 
Shad, Boiled, 85 
Sole with Butter Sauce, 92 
Soup, Black Bean, 152 

Cream of Pea, with Vegetables, 
153 

Cream of Tomato Coconut^ 154 

Creole, 154 

Different Potato Soup, A, 155 

Ginger Cream, 156 

Lumberman's Pea, 157 

Never-Fail Tomato, 157 

Onion, 158 

Vegetable, without Meat, 109 
Spinach with Gravy, 174 
Squash, Baked, 161 
Squaw Dish, 175 
Stew, Camp, 102 

Concordia Oyster, 88 

Improved Oyster, 156 

New Lamb, 110 
Succotash, Great Grandmother Vl 
168 

Long Island, 169 

Spring, 175 

Tomato, 178 
Sweet Apple Slump, 69 
Sweet Potato and Amle, 177 
Swiss Steak with Woroesterahin 
Sauce, 117 

Tapioca, Pineapple, 65 

Uxbridge Apple, 71 
Toast, Beauregard, 5 

Brown Bread Tomato, 163 

Cinnamon, 9 

Thickened Milk, with Neuf chAtal 
Cheese, 42 
Tomato Slaw, 140 
Tomatoes, Gooked, 166 



214 



Index to Recipes 



Tomatoes, New Scalloped, 172 

Stewed, 176 
Tongue, Gold Boiled, with Spanish 
Sauce, 104 

Delicious Baked, 104 
Tripe k la Creole, 118 

Boll, 119 

SantM Pickled, 116 



Vegetable Luncheon Dish, 179 
Vegetarian Scrapple, 179 



WaiBes, 18 

Buttermilk, 7 
Whipped GreanL Substitute for. 
94 



INDEX TO DISCOVERIES 



Alann Clock, How I Use My, 198 
Apron, An Adjustable, 202 
Aprons, Masculine, 202 

Baby-Carriages, Netting for, 201 
Broiler Pan, To Clean a, 183 
Brown Sugar, To Keep Moist, 185 

Cake, A New Birthday, 189 
Cake Cover, A Novel, 188 
Candlesticks, A CSiarming Use 

for, 186 
Canning Season, For the, 194 
Carrots, New Creamed, 182 
Chair Seat, To Bepair a, 207 
Chapped Hands, To Prevent, 197 
Cleaning, Quick, 193 
Clothes Sense, To Cultivate a, 196 
Cookies, To Drop Easily, 190 
Com Flakes, A New Way to Serve, 

190 

Dates^ To Bemove Paper from, 191 

Eggs, How to Poach, 182 
Education, Self, 197 
Entertainer, For the, 203 
Entertaining, Mutual Assistanee 

in, 187 
Electrical Appliances, Making 

More Convenient, 205 
Electric Light Shades, To Secure, 

206 
Electric Toaster, To Clean an, 207 

Fabrics, To Wash Colored^ 200 
Fireless Cooker Back, A New Use 

for Your, 198 
Fish, When Baking, 180 
Fish, When Cooking, 185 
Flavor, Delicious Meat, 180 
Food-Grinder, To Clean the, 185 



French Dressing, To Vary, 190 
Fruit or Vegetables, For Bipening, 
184 

Garbage Pail, For the, 192 
Garbage Pail, Suspended, Cannot 

Spill, 184 
Garnish, A Novel, 180 
Garnish, For a, 181 
Gem Pans, New Use for, 190 
Glass Vase, To Bemove Water 

Mark From, 200 

Humidity, To Increase in a Boom, 
207 

Icing, A New Chocolate, 180 
Ironing, A Suggestion for, 199 
lironing Surface, An ExceUent, 183 

Kitchen Stool, My, 205 

Laundress, To Keep Happy, 198 
Luncheon, A Planned, 191 
Luncheon, A Time-Saving, 203 

Macaroni and Cheese, Baconized, 

190 
Magazine Club, For the, 203 
Marshmallowsy To Cut, 190 
Mending, To Help With the, 199 
Mother, A Day Off for, 195 
Muskmelon, Baked, 181 

Napkins, To Iron, 201 
Nuts, Pumpkiu, 185 

Oiled Paper, How to Keep, 191 
Oil Stove, For Pilling Your, 198 

Party, For the Children's, 187 
Place-Card, The Christmas, 188 
Place-Cards, Novel, 186 



215 



216 



Index to Disootekees 



Poreh Floor, Wax Tour, 192 
Potalo Soap, Quifik, 181 

r, Olio lleuM of Moroi 198 



Bodpei^ To Keep Clean, 189 

Becipo File, For the, 184 

Bieo and Peanut Batter, A New 

Combination, 191 
Bee and Potatoes, Maihed, 189 

Salad, Pienie, 193 

Sand-Box, For the Kiddies, 192 

SandpH^r, A New Use for, 198 

Scallop, To Strragthen a, 201 

Sereen% For tlie Window, 194 

Sewing Help, A, 208 

Shaker, A Handj Salt or Pepper, 

193 
Shopper, A Help for the, 183 
Shortening, M eaaaring, 202 
Showir, For the Bridal, 187 
Spinaeh, To Drain, 188 



., A Pastry, 181 
Stockings, To Dam, 203 
Sweet Pickling Sinip, How t& 
Use, 182 

Table-Cloths, Hemming, 199 
Throat, An Ice-Bag for the, 204 
Time and Tins, To Save, 182 
Toilet Soap, Save All Scraps of, 

199 
Train, Never Miss Yoor, 200 
Trareler, For the, 193 
Trouble Saver, A, 206 
Typewriter, In the Kitchen, 184 

Washing Vegetables, liokewarm 

Water for, 181 
Wedding, A Cotton, 186 
Welsh Barebit, A New, 185 
Windows, How to Wash Bapidly, 

199 
''Window Door," A Kitchen, 206 
Woodwork, Wadung, 201 



i 




...v.v^'' 



nSffS III IMH|r 




HOUSEKEEPINGS 
OK ^RECIPES and 
HOUSEHOLD DISCOVERIES 






J 



Digitized by tine Internet Arcinive 
in 2010 



Iittp://www.arcliive.org/details/goodliousekeep2000good 



Good Housekeeping's Book 

of Recipes and Household 
Discoveries «=^ ..=^ «==^ 



Every ndpe actually tested mad approved by the Department o£ 
Cookery ot Oood Hoasekeepiag Institute 



^ 



Published by GOOD HOUSEKEEPING MAGAZINE 
119 West FcMrtieth Street in the City of New York 



Copyright, 1920, by 

Good Housekeeping Magazine 

International Magazine Company 



All rights reserved, including that of translatioa 

into foreign languages, including 

the Soandinayiaa. 



Printed in U. S. A. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

• PAGE 

Do You Cook by Rule? i 

Measuring and Mixing n 

Equivalents of Capacity v 

Approximate Weights op Some Common Dry Commodities . . vi 

Beverages 1 

Breads 4 

Cakes 19 

Confections 33 

Cheese Dishes 37 

Cookies 43 

Desserts 53 

Eggs 72 

Entries 80 

Fish 84 

Frostings '83 

Fruit Combinations ©5 

Meat 98 

Pies 120 

Salads 128 

Salad Dressings 142 

Sandwiches 147 

Soups 152 

Vegetables 160 

Saucepan Discoveries 180 

Discoveries from Kitchen to Garret 183 

Discoveries for the Hostess 186 

Cooking Discoveries 189 

Summer Discoveries 192 

"Keeping Fit" Discoveries 125 

Every-Day Discoveries 198 

Thrift Discoveries 201 

"Home Helps" Discoveries 205 

"What Is Good Housekeeping Institute?" 208 

Index to Recipes 209 

Index to Discoveries 215 



Do You Cook by Rule? 

It is the surest and safest way, and yon are safeguarded 
bv tested methods and tested recipes, when you use the recipes 
found in these pages. It is m the Department oi Cookery 
of Good Housekeeping Institute, a research laboratory at 
105 West 39th St., XeT? York City, conducted by Good House- 
keeping Magazine that experienced workers are constantly ra- 
Yising and testing recipes, methods and articles. Every oji« 
of these four hundred reeipes represents actual testing, tast- 
ing and standardizing. In aU confidence, then, we offer yoii 
the results, because we know that they will be practical, 
workable and helpful in planning your daily meals, and will 
accomplish good cookery at the «ost of less money, less time, 
and less labor. In every case, use accurate and level measure- 
ments and foUow directions carefully and success is certain. 



Measuring and Mixing 

Half of the secret of good cooking lies in accurate meas- 
urement. Good Housekeeping Institute recommends a 
standard measuring-set. First in its list of measuring-utensils 
are two standard measuring-cups holding one-half pint each 
and divided into quarters and thirds. These may be made 
of either aluminum or glassware. The tin cup is too short- 
lived. A set of accurate measuring-spoons is essential. 
These are made of aluminum and can be found in capacities 
graduated from one tablespoonful down to one-fourth tea- 
spoonful. They assure uniform good results in baking-pow- 
der mixtures, cakes, and so forth, as well as careful seasoning. 

A small spatula for the leveling of all solid measurements 
is indispensable. An aluminum quart measure and a small 
compact spring scale may also be added to the measuring 
equipment. Use the scale more for checking the weights as 
purchased than for cooking by weight. A spring scale, while 
illegal in certain states because it can be easily tampered 
with, is nevertheless practical and accurate for household 
Usage. 

In all measuring see that the ingredients are level. A 
cupful is measured level; a tablespoonful is measured level; 
a teaspoonful is measured level. In measuring dry ingredi- 
ents by cupfuls fill the cup by tablespoonfuls, allow it to 
heap slightly, then level with a quick stroke of the spatula. 
When fractions of a cupful are to be measured, measure by 
tablespoonfuls in preference to the use of the cup up to one- 
half cup capacity, remembering that sixteen tablespoonfuls 
are equal to one cupful. And do not shake the cup while 
filling. 

To Measure Dry Ingredients 

In measuring dry ingredients by spoonfuls fill the spoon 
by dipping into the ingredient until more than level; level 



^Ieasuking and Mixing iii 

with the spatula, cutting with the edge of the knife toward 
the tip of the spoon. For the half-teaspoonful, measure 
in exactly the same way, using the measuring spoon of 
one-half teaspoonful capacity. For the half-tablespoonful 
use the spoons of one teaspoonful and one-half teaspoonful 
capacity. For one-eighth of a teaspoonful measure one- 
fourth teaspoontul as usual, then cut sharply in two with the 
spatula. Less than one-eighth of a teaspoonful is called a 
"speck" or "a few grains" and is the amount which can 
be taken up on the very tip end of a vegetable knife. This 
is a term quite frequently used for seasoning. 

In measuring a solid fat pack solidly into cup or spoon 
and cut level with the spatula. When one-quarter cupful or 
less of a fat is desired always measure in tablespoonfiils, al- 
lowing four tablespoonfuls to each quarter cupful. Here is 
a simple way of measuring fats when less than one cupful is 
desired. If, for instance, one-half cupful of fat is desired, 
fill the measuring cup with one-half cupful of water and then 
add the fat in small pieces until the water reaches the cup- 
ful mark ; then pour off the water and one-half cupful of fat 
will remain. 

To Measure Liquids 

In measuring liquids by cupfuls pour the liquid to be meas- 
ured into the cup, filling it to the very top of the standard 
cup. For fractions of cupfuls fill in like manner to the indi- 
cated division. In the same way measure liquids by spoon- 
fuls, by taking up all the spoon will hold. 

Just How to Mix 

Fully as important as measuring is the correct motion for 
combining ingredients. These involve three processes, stir- 
ring, beating, and ' * cutting ' ' or folding in. The stirring mo- 
tion is required to blend ingredients together. It is the one 
that is most often employed for thoroughly mixing the in- 
gredients of a dish. 

Beating is the motion necessary when air must be intro- 
duced into a mixture in order to leaven it. In beating, the 
ingredients must be turned over and over, continually bring- 
ing the under part upward to the surface and consequently 
bringing with it, with each stroke, a certain amount of air. 



iv MeASURINO 4ND MiXINa 

The cutting and folding motion is necessary when a mix- 
ture already containing entrapped air introduced by beat- 
ing must have added to it an ingredient, also well beaten, 
and the mixing accomplished without loss of air from either 
mixture. The best illustration of this is a sponge cake where, 
into the light yolk-sugar-and-flour mixture, must be cut and 
folded the beaten egg-whites. 

Briefly, by stirring, a dish is properly mixed; by beating, 
air is entrapped in the mixture ; by cutting and folding, this 
air which has been already entrapped is prevented from 
escaping. 



The following lists of equivalents are intended merely as 
an assistance in purchasing supplies, because Good House- 
keeping Institute does not believe in cookery by weight. 



EQUIVALENTS OF CAPACITY 
(All measures level full) 



3 teaspoonfuls 
y^, fluid ounce 
16 tablespoonfuls 

2 gills 
y^ liquid pint 

8 fluid oiuices 

1 liquid pint 
16 fluid ounces 


■ 1 tablespoonful 

~ - 1 cupful 
^^ - 2 cupf uls 


LIQUID MEASURE 


DRY MEASURE 


4 fluid ounces :=. 1 gill 
4 gills r= 1 pint 
2 pints z=z 1 quart 
4 quarts z= 1 gallon 
311^ gallons rr: 1 baiTel 
2 barrels z=z 1 hogshead 




(For fruits, vegetables, and 

other drj' commodities) 

2 pints r= 1 quart 

8 quarts z=. 1 peck 

4 peeks = 1 bushel 

105 quarts m 1 barrel 



The pint and quart dry measures are about 16% larger than 
the pint and quart liquid measures. 



APPROXIMATE WEIGHTS OF SOME COMIMON DRY 
COMMODITIES 



Pounds 
per bushel 

Apples 44 to 50 

Beans 60 

Beets 50 to 60 

Carrots 50 

Cranberries 32 to 40 

Cucumbers 48 to 50 

Onions 50 to 57 

Parsnips 42 to 50 

Peaches 48 to 50 

Peanuts 20 to 25 

Pears 45 to 58 

Peas (dried) 60 

Potatoes (white) 60 

Potatoes (sweet) 50to56 

Tomatoes 50 to 60 

Turnips 50 to 60 



Ice: 
1 cubic foot, 



= 57.2 



pounds 
pound 



30 cubic inches =z 
Sugar, gi-anulated: 

1 cupful = 1^ pound 

Butter: 

1 cupful z= ^2 pound 

Lard : 

1 cupful = 1/2 pound 

Flour : 

1 cupful =: 14 pound 

Rice: 

1 cupful =r 1^ pound 

Cornmeal : 

1 cupful =: 5 ounces 

Raisins (stemmed) : 

1 cupful = 6 ounces 

Currants (cleaned) : 

1 cupful z= 6 ounces 

Bread cnmibs (stale) : 

1 cupful rz: 2 ounces 

Chopped meat (packed) : 

1 cupful 1= ^2 pound 



These weights are approximate only and should not be used 
in trade for determining whether correct measure is given or 
received. 

Information concerning the weights per bushel of dry com- 
modities which are legal in your State may be obtained by 
consulting your State laws, your sealer of weights and meas- 
ures, or Circular No. 10 of the Bureau of Standards. 



▼1 



Beverages 



ANGEL TIP 

Sweet grape juice Sweetened whipped-cream 

Crushed ice Mint 

Fill tall glasses such as are used for ice-tea one-third full 
of crushed ice. Pour over this the grape juice till the glasses 
are two-thirds full. The ice is usually sufficient to dilute it. 
Pile on each serving a spoonful of the cream, and top with 
a sprig of mint. Serve with straws or long-handled spoons. 

SOMEBVILLE, MASS. 

COCOA PASTE 

1 pint boiUng water H teaspoonful vanilla 
71/2 tablespoonfuls cocoa Few grains salt 

Put the cocoa into a saucepan and gradually add the boil- 
ing water, stirring till cocoa is thoroughly dissolved. Boil 
till it thickens— about five minutes— stirring constantly, and 
then add salt and vanilla. This will keep for some time m 
a cool place. mountain lake park, md. 

DANDELION CORDIAL 

2 quarts dandelion blossoms 3 pounds sugar 
4 quarts boiling water 2 oranges 

1 lemon 

Pour the boiling water over the dandelion blossoms and 
let stand overnight. Strain, and add xo the liquid the sugar 
dissolved in boiling water, the oranges, and the lemon, sliced 
thin. Let stand for three days and strain before serving. 

J 



2 Good Housekeeping's Book op 

EXCELLENT CEREAL COFFEE 

2 quarts bran 1 quart corn-meal (whole 

1 euptui molasses ground) 

Mix ingredients together thoroughly, rubbing with the 
Hands until the whole resembles moist brown sugar Turn 
mixture into two large dripping-pans and brown in a slow 
oven, stirring very often so that it mav brown evenly without 
becoming scorched. When done it will be of a rich seal-brown 
color. Store in fruit-jars. Use as all the cereal coffees on 
the market, allowing two tablespoonfuls and a cupful and a 
Halt ot wa^er to each person. Boil twenty minutes. 

port HURON, MICH. 

GRAPE PUNCH 

Juice 3 lemons 1 cupful sugar 

Juice 1 orange 1 cupful shredded canned or 

1 pint grape juice cooked fresh pineapple 

1 quart water 

^ Combine and let stand several hours to ripen before serv- 

^^^' NEW HAVEN, CONN. 

ICED COCOA 

3 teaspoonfuls cocoa-paste Milk to fill glass 

2 teaspoonfuls sugar Crushed ice 

Stiffly beaten egg-white 

Put the cocoa-paste into a glass and dissolve by gradually 
pouring in milk. Add sugar and crushed ice, and pile on 
top the egg-white, which should be slightly sweetened and 
flavored with yaniUa. Whipped cream may be substituted 
tor the egg-white. mountain lake park, md. 

MINT GRAPE JUICE 

1 cupful fresh mint leaves 1 pint grape juice 

Few spngs peppermint Sugar sirup 

1 pint boiling water Sprig-s mint 

Pick from the stems the fresh mint leaves. A few sprigs 
of peppermint may be added. Bruise slightly and pour over 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 3 

them the boiling water. Strain when cold and add the grape 
juice with sugar sirup and cracked ice or cold water to taste. 
A tiny sprig of mint should float in each glass. 

•^ *^ ^ BEDDING, CONN. 

RASPBERRY VINEGAR 

Red raspberries Sugar 

Moderately strong vinegar lee-water 

Place the raspberries in a stone jar, cover with one pint of 
moderately strong vmegar to each pint of berries, and let 
stand overnight. Strain off the juice and to each pint add 
two cupfuls of sugar. Boil ten minutes and bottle while hot. 
Dilute with ico-water for serving. supfield, conn. 



TEA PUNCH 

4 cupfuls water % cupful lemoi> juice 

2 cupfuls sugar Strong cold tea 

Boil sugar and water together for fifteen minutes; cool, 
add lemon juice and freeze in three parts ice to one part salt. 
Serve in frappe or tall tea-glasses, pouring two or three 
tablespoonfuls of the tea over each serving. 

^ ESSEX FALLS, N. J. 



Breads 



ALL-CORN IVIUFFINS 

1 cupful yellow corn-meal 3 tablespoonfuls sugar 

1 cupful white com flour 1 teaspoonful baking-powder 

2 tablespoonfuls fat or ^/^ teaspoonful soda 
4 tablespoonfuls cracklings 1 egg, beaten 

1 tablespoonful salt 1 cupful sour milk or buttermilk 

1/2 cupful cold water 

Sift dry ingredients together, add melted fat, egg, milk, 
and lastly the cold water. Bake in muffin-pans in a quick 

oven. REDDING, CONN. 

AN ALL-RYE LOAF 

2y2 eupfuls rye flour 1 teaspoonful soda 

2 teaspoonfuls baking-powder 3 tablespoonfuls molasses 

1 teaspoonful salt 1 cupful sour milk or buttermilk 

1 teaspoonful caraway seeds 

Mix thoroughly in order given, making a very stiff dough ; 
wet the hands in cold water to shape the loaf, and bake in a 
moderate oven. The caraway may be omitted and raisins 
or dates added. redding, conn. 

APPLE CORN BREAD 

% cupful eom-meal ^ teaspoonful baking-powder 

% cupful bread flour 1 tablespoonful melted shorten- 

1 teaspoonful salt ing 

1 tablespoonful molasses 3 medium-sized apples 

% cupful buttermilk i/^ teaspoonful soda 

Mix all the dry ingredients thoroughly together, add the 
buttermilk, molasses, and shortening, and mix well. Pour 

4 



Eecipes and HousehoijD Discoveries 5 

into a shallow greased tin, and place the apples, peeled and 
cut in eighths, over the top. Bake in a hot oven three-quar- 
ters of an hour. When done, dust with powdered sugar. 

MILWAUKEE, WIS. 

APPLE JOHNNY-CAKE 

1 teaspoonful shortening' 
About % cupful boiling water 
1 tablespoonful sugar 3 tablespoonfuls milk 

^ teaspoonful salt 1 cupful chopped apple 

Mix the yellow and white corn-meal, sugar, salt, and short- 
ening together. Scald wdth the boiling water, until the mix- 
ture is a little thicker than will spread; then add the milk 
and chopped apple. Spread on well-greased tins to a thick- 
ness of one-fourth inch, crease in squares with the back of 
a knife, and bake in a hot oven until light brown. Split, and 
eat buttered, with coffee. The apple may be omitted, if de- 
sired. Either variety makes delicious cream or milk toast. 

CONCORD, MASS. 

BEAUREGARD TOAST 

6 slices toast 4 hard-cooked eggs 

1 cupful milk 1 small can mushrooms 

1 tablespoonful butter 2 tablespoonfuls grated cheese 

1 tablespoonful flour Few grains black pepper 

1/^ teaspoonful salt Few grains cayenne pepper 

Make a white sauce of the milk, butter, flour, and seasoning. 
Stir in the whites of the eggs that have been diced, then the 
mushrooms cut fine. Have readj- the toast and turn the sauce 
over it. Force the yolks through strainer, sprinkling them 
over the top together with the grated cheese. Atlanta, ga. 



BISHOP'S BREAD 

3 eggs 1 tablespoonful chopped citron 

% cupful sugar 2 tablespoonfuls grated sweet 

1^8 cupfuls pastry flour chocolate 

1 cupful blanched, chopped al- Grated rind one lemon 
monds 1 cupful halved raisins 



6 Good Housekeeping's Book of 

Cream sugar and eggs; mix other ingredients together and 
work into the egg mixture. Pour two inches deep into greased 
caKe-pans, and bake in a moderate oven for forty-five 
minutes. Cool, cut in slices, toast quickly, and set aside to 
dry thoroughly. These will keep indefinitely. 

BRAN BREAD WITH YEAST 

1 cupful milk 1/4 to 1 yeast-cake 

1 cupful water M cupful warm water 

2^JZnlf"f "" u 1 tablespoonful shortening 

2 teaspoonfuls salt 5 to 6 cupfuls bread flour 

1 cupful bran 

??*i"^?,^' Shortening, and salt in mixing-bowl; pour on the 
scalded milk and boiling water ; when lukewarm add the 3 east 
cake softened in the lukewarm water. Add the bran and 
flour, stirring until thoroughly mixed. Use enough flour to 
make it the consist^cy of white bread dough. pSt to raise 

BRAN GEMS 

2 :S??SsK '"" ' t^blespoonfuls any vegetable 

2 teaspoonfuls baking-powder 1 teaspoonful salt 
2 tablespoonfuls sirup I1/2 cupfuls milk 

V2 cupful raisins chopped 

pn!^if 5il^^ ^7 ingredients together, add the sirup, short- 
ening, milk, and raisms. Place in greased gem-pans and 

IfLutLZ rVe'ralS^ "^^^^^^- '''''' ^^^^^^ ^^^ 

TOEONTO, CANADA. 

BREAD-BRAN MUFFINS 

2 cupfuls bran 31/2 tablespoonfuls sugar 

1 cuptul dried, ground bread- 1 teaspoonful salt 

crumbs 1 egg 

% cupful bread flour 2 cupfuls milk 

4 teaspoonfuls baking-powder 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 7 

Mix together dry ingredients, beat egg, add milk, or half 
and half of milk and water, and stir into first mixture. Bake 
about twenty-five minutes in well-oiled gem pans. This will 
make eighteen muffins. w. lapayette, ind» 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES 

1 quart milk 1 yeast-eake 

2 teaspoonfuls salt V4. cupful lukewarm water 
% teaspoonful soda 1 cupful buttermilk 

5 cupiuls buckwheat flour 

Scald milk, and cool to lukewarm ; add yeast-cake softened 
in the water, salt, and flour to make a rather thick batter. 
Beat well and let rise overnight. In the morning add the soda 
dissolved in the buttermilk. Bake on a hot, greased griddle, 
and serve with butter and sirup. callicoon, n. y. 



BUCKWHEAT GEMS 

% cupful sugar 1 cupful buckwheat flour 

1 egg ^/2 cupful bread flour 

3 tablespoonfuls butter II/2 teaspoonfuls baking-powder 

1 cupful milk % teaspoonful salt 

Beat the sugar into the egg, add the melted butter. Add 
alternately the milk and buckwheat flour; then the wheat 
flour, into which the baking-powder and salt have been sifted. 
Bake in gem-pans. These may be split and served with 
maple-sirup or honey. ordv^ay, cal. 

BUTTERMILK WAFFLES 

1 cupful thick buttermilk ^ teaspoonful soda 

% cupful sweet milk 2^/4 teaspoonfuls baking-powder 

1 egg 2 tablespoonfuls melted shorten- 

114 cupfuls bread flour ing 

V2 teaspoonful salt 

Combine the two milks ; add egg yolk, unbeaten, stir in the 
dry ingredients sifted together and then the fat melted. Beat 
well, and lastly fold in the egg white whipped stiff and dry. 
Bake as usual on a waffle iron. rock hill, s. o» 



Good Housekeeping's Book op 



BUTTERMILK WHEAT CAKES 

1 egg 1 teaspoonful salt 

3 cupfuls sour or buttermilk 1^ teaspoonfuls soda 

2^2 cupfuls bread flour 1 teaspoonful baking-powder 

1 tablespoonful melted butter 

Add the egg, well beaten, to the sour or buttermilk, and 
sift the fiour with the salt, soda, and baking-powder. Pour 
the buttermilk very gradually over the dry ingredients, beat- 
ing the mixture well during the process. When well mixed 
add the melted butter. Now beat vigorouslj'^, and pour the 
batter in a pitcher and from the latter pour it onto the smok- 
ing hot griddle after rubbing the latter with a bit of salt 
pork or other fat, and bak", a golden brown on both sides. 
Serve with plenty of fresh butter and maple sirup or honey. 
If the batter seems too thin, you may add more flour to it, 
but the cakes will be better if it is not too thick. 



CARAMEL BISCUITS 

2 cupfuls bread flour }4 cupful milk 

4 teaspoonfuls baking-powder 1/^ cupful water 

1 teaspoonful salt 1 cupful light-brown sugar 

1 tablespoonful lard % cupful butter 

1 tablespoonful butter Nutmeg 

Mix and sift the flour, baking-powder, and salt twice. 
Work in the one tablespoonful of butter and lard with the 
tips of the fingers until it is thoroughly blended. Add the 
milk and water and mix to a soft dough, using a knife. (A 
trifle more liquid may be needed.) Toss on a floured board, 
roll lightly to one-fourth inch thickness. Cream the brown 
sugar and butter together till it is smooth, then spread lightly 
over the dough. Roll up like a jelly roll, fasten end by mois- 
tening with milk or water, and cut in pieces three-fourths inch 
thick. Sprinkle just a little nutmeg over each slice and bake 
in a hot oven fifteen minutes. Serve hot. 

LOS ANGELES, CAL. 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 



CARAWAY RYE BREAD 

1 cupful scalded milk 2 teaspoonfuls salt 

1 cupful boiling water %, to 1 yeast-eake softened in 

4 tablespoonfuls chopped, suet ^/4 cupful lukewarm water 

J^ cupful brown sugar or 2 teaspoonfuls earaway-seeds 

3 tablespoonfuls molasses 3 cupfuls whole-wheat flour 

1/^ cupful walnut meats 3 cupfuls rye flour 

Melt the chopped suet and add to the milk, water, sweet- 
ening, and salt; when luke-warm add yeast and flour; beat 
well, cover, let rise to double its bulk. Again beat, add cara- 
way-seeds and the walnut-meats, if desired. Bake in two 
loaves or use part for muffins. bellows palls, vt. 



CINNAMON TOAST 

Slightly stale bread 1 teaspoonful ground cinnamon 

Butter 1 cupful powdered sugar 

Mix together the cinnamon and sugar and transfer to a 
shaker. Cut bread one-fourth inch thick, trim off crusts, 
and toast quickly so that it will be soft in the middle. But- 
ter lavishly, shake the cinnamon-mixture over, put together 
in pairs and cut in triangles. Place in a hot oven for a min- 
ute or two and serve on a folded napkin on a hot plate. 

lakewood, n. j. 



COCOA MUFFINS 

2 tablespoonfuls shortening 

2 tablespoonfuls cocoa 1^/^ cupfuls pastry flour 

3 teaspoonfuls baking-powder 2 eggs 

1 cupful sugar % teaspoonful vanilla 

^/4 teaspoonfial salt 

Cream shortening and sugar, add egg-yolks. Combine 
flour, cocoa, and baking-powder; add alternately with the 
water. Add vanilla and fold in stifiSy beaten whites of eggs. 
Bake in muffin pans in quick oven. ebensburg, pa. 



10 Good Housekeeping's Book op 



CORN BREAD 

1/4 cupful sugar 1 cupful milk 

2 tablespoonfuls shortening 1 cupful fine dry bread-crumbs 

1 egg 4 teaspoonfuls baking-powder 

^ cupful corn-meal 1 teaspoonful salt 

Cream sugar and shortening together, add yolk of egg; 
add the dry ingredients mixed and sifted together alter- 
nately with the milk. Then fold in the stiflfly-beaten egg- 
white. Bake in a shallow, well-oiled pan in a moderate oven. 

HASTINGS-ON-HUDSON, N. Y. 



CRACKLING CORN CAKE 

% cupful corn-meal 1 teaspoonful soda 

1 cupful bread flour 1 teaspoonful baking-powder 

1/4 cupful boiling water ^4 cupful chopped veal or pork 

% cupful brown sugar cracklines (the scraps that re- 

2 cupfuls buttermilk main after trjung out the fat) 

1 teaspoonful salt 

Moisten the corn-meal with the boiling water and let it 
stand for five minutes. Sift the soda, baking-powder, and 
salt with the wheat flour and add with the rest of the in- 
gredients to the corn-meal. Spread thin in a greased drip, 
ping-pan and bake in a hot oven about twenty minutes. 

REDDING, CONN. 



CRUMPETS 

3 cupfuls tepid milk 2 tablespoonfuls melted butter 

1 teaspoonful salt Bread flour to make a batter, 

y2 compressed yeast-cake about 4 cupfuls 

14 teaspoonful soda 

Soften the yeast in a little warm milk, add to remain- 
ing milk with the salt, and stir in about four cupfuls of flour, 
or enough to make a muffin-batter ; let stand overnight, and 
in the morning add the melted butter and the soda dis- 
solved in a tablespoonful of hot water. Beat thoroughly. 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 11 

place in well-oiled muffin-tins, filling them half full, let raise 
about twenty-five minutes, and bake in a hot oven. 

SUFPIELD, CONN. 

DELICIOUS QUICK TEA-ROLLS 

1 compressed yeast-cake 1 tablespoonful sugar 

14 cunful scalded milk 3 cupfuls bread flour 

1/2 cupful tepid water 2 tablespoonfuls lard or butter 

1 teaspoonful salt 

Add shortening to milk, and let cool till lukewarm. Soften 
yeast and dissolve sugar in the water, combine mixtures, beat 
in half of the flour, whipping till very smooth, then add the 
balance together with the salt. Knead thoroughly ; roll one- 
fourth inch thick, brush lightly with melted butter, shape 
with a two-inch biscuit-cutter, crease and fold over in a 
pocket-shape. Set to raise in a warm place for about two 
hours, and bake fifteen minutes in a moderate oven. This 
makes two dozen small rolls, hampton, va. 

ENGLISH IVIUFFINS 

iy2 cupfuls milk 3 cupfuls bread flour 

1 tablespoonful sugar i/^ yeast-cake 

1 teaspoonful salt 1 egg 

Ys teaspoonful soda 

Heat milk till tepid ; add sugar and salt and the yeast-cake 
softened in a little warm water. Beat in flour to make a 
soft batter, from two to three cupfuls according to the brand 
of flour, and let rise till light, about three hours. Stir in the 
egg well beaten and the soda, beat thoroughly, and cook in 
muffin-rings on a griddle. This must be done slowlj^ about 
twelve minutes being the right length of time, concord, mass. 

ENGLISH PENNY MUFFINS 

1 compressed yeast-cake 2 tablespoonfuls butter or lard 

1 cupful warm water % teaspoonful salt 

1 cupful milk 1 egg 

Y2 cupful granulated sugar Bread flour 



12 Good Houseeleeping 's Book of 

Soften yeast in the warm water and milk mixed ; add salt 
and about a cupful and a half of flour to make a thin batter. 
When light, add sugar, egg and melted butter, and beat vig- 
orously. Stir in flour to make a dough as soft as can be 
handled. When light, knead it, let it raise again, then form 
into small round biscuits, place in well-oiled gem-pans, and 
when very light, bake twelve minutes in a hot oven. This 
makes thirty muffins. Toledo, ia. 

GEORGIA SPLIT BISCUIT 

3 large Irish potatoes 1 compressed yeast-cake 

1/2 cupful butter 1 tablespoonful sugar 

^ cupful shortening 2 teaspoonfuls salt 

2 cupfuls tepid milk Bread flour to make sponge and 

2 eggs to knead, about 11 cupfuls 

Pare and boil the potatoes until soft ; mash fine while hot ; 
add the shortening; and beat the eggs in separately. Then 
add the yeast softened in the milk and enough sifted bread- 
flour to make a sponge, about three cupfuls. Let raise till 
light, then add the salt and sugar, and flour enough to knead 
the mixture to a satin-like dough. Let raise again till light, 
roll one-half inch thick, and cut into flat biscuits. Brush oyer 
the tops with melted butter, place them together in pairs, let 
raise again, and bake in a moderate oven at 375° F. This 
makes from four to five dozen biscuits. sanfobd, fla. 

GRANDMOTHER'S MUFFINS 

1 cupful corn-meal 2 cupfuls cold water 

1 cupful bread flour 1 tablespoonful shortening 

y^ cupful light brown or maple- % teaspoonful soda 

sugar 1 tablespoonful hot water 

1 teaspoonful salt 

Mix the corn-meal, flour, sugar, salt, and cold water to- 
gether. Let stand overnight. In the morning add the short- 
ening, melted, and the soda dissolved in the hot water. Beat 
very thoroughly, drop into hot, well-greased gem-pans and 
bake in a moderate oven about twenty-five minutes. 

hastings-on-hudson, n. y. 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 13 



JOHNNY-CAKE 

1 cupful yellow com-meal % teaspoonful soda 

1 cupful bread flour y^ teaspoonful baking-powder 

y^ cupful sugar 1 teaspoonful salt 

\y2 cupfuls sour milk 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients twice, add to this grad- 
ually the sour milk. Beat well and bake in a shallow well- 
greased pan in a moderate oven. Lawrence, mass. 



KENTUCKY SPOON BREAD 

2 cupfuls corn-meal l^/^ cupfuls buttermilk 

2 teaspoonfuls salt 1 teaspoonful soda 

2 eggs 11/^ tablespoonfuls butter 

Scald the corn-meal with enough hot water to make it the 
consistency of mush. Add the salt and butter, and set it 
aside to cool; then beat in the eggs whipped light; dissolve 
the soda in the buttermilk, beat into the mixture, and bake in 
a rather deep greased pan in a quick oven for thirty-five or 
forty minutes. mount sterling, ky. 



MAPLE ROLLS 

2 cupfuls bread flour % cupful milk 

4 teaspoonfuls baking-powder Melted butter 
1 teaspoonful salt Scraped or grated maple-sugar 

2 tablespoonfuls lard 

Make a baking-powder biscuit-dough of the flour, baking- 
powder, salt, lard, and milk. Roll in oblong shape one-half 
inch thick, brush with the melted butter and spread with the 
maple-sugar. Dampen the outer edges with a little cold 
water and roll up firmly. Cut in crosswise slices about one- 
half inch thick, place in a well-oiled baking-pan, cut side 
down, and bake in a hot oven twenty to twenty-five minutes. 

DES MOINES, lA. 



14 Good Housekeeping's Book op 

MARYLAND SALLY LUNN 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar 3 eggs, separated 

IV2 tablespoonfuls butter 2 cupfuls bread flour 

^ teaspoonful salt 2 teaspoonfuls baking-powder 

1 cupful milk 

Cream together the butter and sugar; add the egg-yolks 
beaten thoroughly, and then the flour mixed with the baking- 
powder, alternately with the milk. Fold in egg-whites well 
beaten, and bake about forty minutes in a tube-pan. 

EMMITSBURG, MD. 

MRS. MELLICK'S CORN MUFFINS 

2V^ cupfuls granulated corn- 5 cupfuls boiling water 

meal % cupful cold water 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar II/2 cupfuls bread flour 

2 teaspoonfuls salt 4 teaspoonfuls baking-powder 

1 tablespoonful margarin 1 egg 

Mix in a double-boiler one cupful of eom-meal, the sugar, 
one teaspoonful of salt and margarin. Pour over the boiling 
water, stirring constantly, and cook one hour. Turn into a 
boAvl, and pour over the cold water. In the morning, beat 
until soft and smooth ; then add the rest of the corn-meal, 
bread-flour, salt, and baking-powder sifted together. Add the 
egg, well beaten, and beat all thoroughly. Drop the mixture 
into well-greased gem-pans and bake in a hot oven. 

concord, mass. 

OATMEAL BREAD 

1 cupful rolled oats I/2 yeast-cake 

I/2 cupful molasses Bread flour 

1 teaspoonful salt 1 pint boiling water 

Pour the water over the oats, then set aside in a covered 
dish till lukewarm; add the molasses, the yeast-cake softened 
in a little warm water, and a cupful and a half of bread 
flour. When this is spongy, add the salt and enough flour 
to make a dough stiff enough to lift in the hand. Let 
raise till double in bulk. Cut down, and turn into oiled tins. 
Let raise again, and bake about three-quarters of an hour in 
an oven not quite as hot as white bread. This makes two 
loaves and if started early in the morning, can be finished 
about two o'clock. auburn, me. 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 15 



OATMEAL GEMS 

1 cupful cooked, cold oat-meal 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

2 cupfuls bread flour 1 cupful milk 

3 teaspoonfuls baking-powder 1 egg 

1 tablespoonful sugar 1 teaspoonful salt 

Mix together dry ingredients and rub in oatmeal with the 
finger-tips. Beat the egg, add the milk, and turn into first 
mixture. Add melted butter, beat thoroughly, turn into hot, 
oiled gem-pans and bake about twenty-five minutes in a hot 

oven. NEW YORK CITY, N. Y. 

OATMEAL MUFFINS 

2 cupfuls dry, rolled oats 1 teaspoonful salt 
1% cupfuls sour milk 2 eggs, well beaten 
1/2 cupful sugar 1 teaspoonful soda 

1 cupful pastry flour 

Soak the oats overnight in the sour milk; in the morning 
add the remainder of the ingredients and bake thirty min- 
utes in a moderate oven. raynham center, mass. 

OLD-FASHIONED CORN BREAD 

2 cupfuls corn-meal 2^/2 cupfuls sour milk 

1 cupful bread flour 2 tablespoonfuls sugar 

1 teaspoonful salt 1^4 teaspoonfuls soda 

14 teaspoonful baking-powder 

Mix together the corn-meal, flour, salt, sugar, soda, and 
baking-powder. Sift these ingredients together and then add 
the sour milk. Beat well, pour into a buttered mold with a 
tight-fitting cover, and steam for two hours. Remove from 
mold and brown in the oven. Philadelphia, pa. 

OLIVE BREAD 

11/2 cupfuls bread flour 1^ teaspoonful soda 

1^ cupfuls Graham flour 1 cupful ripe olives 

2 teaspoonfuls baking-powder 1% cupfuls milk 

y2 cupful molasses li/^ teaspoonfuls salt 



16 Good Housekeeping's Book of 

Mix thoroughly the flour, salt, and baking-powder. Add 
soda to the molasses, and combine with milk. Mix all to- 
gether and beat well. Lastly add the ripe olives, stoned and 
cut into pieces not too fine, turn into a well-greased loaf- 
pan, bake in a moderate oven for one hour. Milwaukee, wis. 

100% CORN BREAD 

1 egg ly^ eupfuls eorn-meal 

2 eupfuls sour milk 1 teaspoonful baking-powder 
2 teaspoonfuls salt 1 tablespoonful vegetable fat 

1 teaspoonful soda 

Beat the t^^ well. Add the milk and the dry ingredients 
well mixed. Beat thoroughly. Pour into a shallow baking- 
pan, which contains the vegetable fat smoking hot. Spread 
over the bottom of the pan and bake in a hot oven until 
brown. new Orleans, la. 

PARKER HOUSE CORN CAKE 

1 cupful bread flour 1 egg 

1 cupful corn-meal % cupful sugar 

1 teaspoonful soda 2 tablespoonfuls melted mar- 

2 teaspoonfuls cream of tartar garin 

1 teaspoonful salt 1 cupful warm milk 

Mix all together the bread flour, corn-meal, soda, cream of 
tartar and salt. To the ^g^ well beaten add the sugar, 
melted margarin and warm milk. Pour these ingredients 
into the dry mixture and beat well. Bake as usual. 

concord, mass. 



POPOVERS 

1 cupful bread flour 1 egg 

^A teaspoonful salt 1 cupful milk 

Mix the salt and flour and add slowly the milk and the ^%'^. 
Beat the whole with a strong Dover egg-beater until smooth 
and bubbly. Grease hot gem-pans, fill them two-thirds full of 
the batter and bake thirty-five to forty minutes in hot oven. 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 17 



PORTSMOUTH CORN BREAD 

1 cupful eom-meal 1 tablespoonful melted shorten- 

Boiling water ing 

1 egg y^ teaspoonf ul salt 

Scald the corn-meal with enough boiling water to make 
as thin as molasses. Add the egg, well beaten, melted short- 
ening, and the salt. Pour into well-greased pans, having the 
mixture one-half inch in thickness, and bake in a hot oven. 

concord, mass. 



RAISIN CORN BREAD 

1 cupful sour milk % teaspoonful soda 

1 well-beaten egg 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar 

1 tablespoonful butter, melted 1 cupful bread flour 

1 teaspoonful sugar 1 cupful corn-meal 

1%, teaspoonfuls salt % cupful raisins 

Mix together the milk, egg, butter, sugar, and salt. Add 
the soda dissolved in a tablespoonful of hot water, and then 
the flour and cream of tartar sifted together. Stir in the 
corn-meal and raisins, and bake in a moderate oven at about 
375° F. for thirty minutes. south pasadena, gal. 



UXBRIDGE JOHNNY-CAKE 

1 cupful corn-meal 1 teaspoonful sugar 

Boiling water ' % teaspoonful salt 

'About y^ cupful milk 

Scald the meal with about one cupful of absolutely boiling 
water until not quite thin enough to spread ; add the sugar 
and salt, and the milk ; spread with a knife in a well-greased 
dripping-pan, mark in squares, and brown in a hot oven. 
Serve hot and split and butter, as eaten. Or cover with a 
thin white sauce and serve with a little crisp bacon; accom- 
panied by a simple salad, this furnishes an ideal luncheon or 
supper dish. concord, mass. 



18 Recipes and Household Discoveries 



WAFFLES 

1% cupfuls bread flour 1 cupful milk 

3 teaspoonfuls baking-powder 1 tablespoonful melted butter 

yi teaspoonful salt 2 eggs 

Beat the whites and the yolks of the eggs separately. Add 
milk to the yolks, and then the flour and baking-powder 
slowly, and stir. Fold in the whites, and add the butter. 
Cook on well-greased waffle-irons. 



Cakes 



A GOOD INEXPENSIVE CAKE 

1 cupful sugar i/^ cupful water 

1 egg y^ teaspoonful vanilla or other 

5 tablespoonfuls butter iiavoring 

1% cupfuls pastry flour Few grains salt 

2 teaspoonfuls baking-powder 

Beat the butter to a cream, add the sugar ^adually, and 
then the egg-yolk unbeaten. Mix together the flour and bak- 
ing-powder, and add alternately with the water to the first 
mixture, beating very thoroughly, then stir in the egg-white 
whipped stiff, and beat again. Bake in a loaf for about forty- 
five minutes in a moderate oven at about 375° F. If care- 
fully made as directed, this cake will be of very fine texture. 

CHICAGO, ILL. 

AUNT REBECCA'S OLD-FASHIONED SPONGE CAKE 

Ij^ cupfuls powdered sugar Juice and rind ^ lemon 

1 cupful bread flour 5 eggs 

Few grains salt 

Separate eggs, beat yolks with sugar, till light and creamy, 
at least ten minutes. Then add lemon juice and rind. Beat 
egg-whites stiff, fold into mixture, and then sift in the flour 
and salt slowly, stirring gently. Bake about fifty minutes in 
a slow oven. morristown, n. j. 

BERRY LOAF 

^cupful shortening 1 teaspoonful baking-powder 

% cupful brown sugar y^ teaspoonful soda 

\i cupful sour milk % teaspoonful cinnamon 

1 &Z'g 1/2 teaspoonful salt 

IV^ cupfuls pastry flour I/2 teaspoonful nutmeg 

1 cupful cooked berries, drained 
19 



20 Good Housekeeping's Book op 

Cream together the shortening and the brown sugar; add 
the milk, egg well beaten, and all the dry ingredients sifted 
together. Then add the berries. Mix thoroughly together 
and bake in a well-greased loaf-cake pan. redding, conn. 

BOILED RAISIN CAKE 

1% eupfiils seeded raisins */2 cupful raisin water 

34 cupful sugar 1 well-beaten egg 

y^ cupful butter 1 teaspoonful soda 

iy2 cupfuls pastry flour 1 teaspoonful nutmeg 

1 teaspoonful cinnamon 

Cover the raisins with boiling water and simmer twenty 
minutes. Cream the sugar with the butter, add flour, raisin 
water, egg, soda (sifted with the flour), nutmeg, cinnamon, 
and raisins, dredged with one-fourth cupful of the flour. Bake 
in a shallow cake-tin in a moderate oven. 

OAK BLUFFS, MASS. 

BOSTON CAKE 

1 cupful su^r %, teaspoonful salt 

1/2 cupful butter 1 teaspoonful baking-powder 

2 eggs }^ cupful corn-starch 

1 cupful pastry flour 1/2 cupful milk 

1 teaspoonful vanilla 

Cream together the sugar and butter, break into this one 
egg, and beat. Sift the flour three times, the last time add- 
ing the salt, baking-powder, and cornstarch. Add a little of 
this to the first mixture, stir in the second egg, and the milk, 
then the remaining flour and the vanilla. Bake in a moder- 
ate oven, in a loaf or in two layers. If the layers are used, put 
together with chocolate frosting and cream filling. 

PEEKSKILL, N. Y. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE 

2 cupfuls powdered sugar ^ cupful milk 

4 eggs 1 cupful pastry flour 

1 teaspoonful baking-powder 
teaspoonful vanilla 



Kecipes and Household Discoveries 21 

Melt chocolate, add the milk. Cream sugar and egg yolks to- 
gether, then add chocolate mixture, flour, and whites of eggs 
beaten until stiff. Bake in a shallow pan. Ice with cold or 
boiled icing, mount vernon, ill. 



COCOA APPLE-SAUCE CAKE 

1 cupful sugar 1 tablespoonful cocoa 

^ cupful sour cream 1 teaspoonful cinnamon 

1 cupful hot, sour apple sauce I/2 teaspoonful cloves 
1^/4 teaspoonfuls soda 2 cupfuls bread flour 

1 cupful raisins 

Mix together cocoa, spices, flour, and raisins. In a sepa- 
rate bowl, put the sugar, cream, and hot apple sauce into 
which the soda has been stirred. Beat in the flour mixture 
and bake in a well-lined loaf or tube-tin for forty-five minutes 
in a moderate oven. Frost with sour cream icing. 

^TARSAW^, N. Y. 

COCOA CAKE 

% cupful sugar 14 teaspoonful vanilla 

% cupful cocoa %, cupful shredded coconut 

1 cupful sour milk 1 tablespoonful shortening 

2 cupfuls barley flour 1 teaspoonful soda 

V4, teaspoonful salt 1 tablespoonful hot water 

Mix the cocoa and sugar, add the shortening, and blend 
thoroughly. Add salt and sour milk. Beat until smooth, 
and add soda dissolved in hot water. Beat again while add- 
ing the barley flour. Pour into a greased and floured shal- 
low pan, sprinkle ^vith coconut, and bake in a moderate oven 
for about twenty-five minutes. brattleboro, vt. 



COCONUT CAKE 

1 cupful coconut 3 eggs 

1 cupful milk 21/^ cupfuls pastry flour 

% cupful butter 1 teaspoonful baking-powder 

2 cupfuls sugar 1^ teaspoonful vanilla 



22 Good Housekeeping's Book of 

Soak the coconut in milk for ten minutes. In the mean- 
time, cream butter and sugar, add flavoring and eggs well 
beaten, and then add flour mixed with the baking-powder 
alternately with the milk. Turn into a tube-tin and bake 
about fiifty minutes in a 350° F. oven. Ice with plain boiled 
frosting containing a half cupful of coconut. 

AURORA, N. Y. 

COFFEE CREAM SPONGE CAKE 

4 egg-yolks Whites of 4 eggs 
3 tablespoonfuls coffee infusion Filling: 

1 cupful sugar 1 cupful granulated sugar 

1 cupful pastry flour y^ cupful brown sugar 
1^/4 teaspoonfuls baking-powder 1/2 cupful coffee infusion 
1/2 teaspoonful salt Whites of 2 eggs 

5 teaspoonfuls cornstarch 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

1 cupful shredded coconut 

Beat the egg yolks until creamy. Add the three tablespoon- 
fuls of coffee infusion and continue beating. Add sugar 
gradually, and beat until thick. Sift together the flour, bak- 
ing-powder, salt, and corn-starch. Add to the mixture care- 
fully. Beat the whites of the eggs until stiff, and fold into 
the mixture. Pour into two layer-cake pans and bake^ at 
320° F. for thirty minutes. Put the layers together with the 
following filling: Place the granulated sugar, brown sugar, 
and coffee infusion in a saucepan, and cook until the mix- 
ture threads. Pour the sirup on the beaten whites of the 
eggs and beat until the mixture thickens; then add the 
shredded coconut and vanilla. Spread between layers and 
on top of the cake. Nirw york, n. y. 

COLLEGE FUDGE CAKE 

2 squares unsweetened chocolate 14 teaspoonful salt 

V2 cupful hot water 1% cupfuls pastry flour 

Yolk of 1 ^g'g iy2 teaspoonfuls baking-powder 

1/4 cupful shortening 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

1 cupful sugar 1 scant teaspoonful soda 

1/2 cupful boiling water 

Put the chocolate and hot water in a saucepan and cook and 
stir about three minutes till thick and glossy. Remove from 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 23 

the fire, add the egg-yolk, butter, sugar, and salt. Stir in the 
flour sifted with the baking-powder, salt, soda, and the va- 
nilla. At the last, stir in the boiling water. Beat until 
smooth, pour into a shallow pan, bake in a moderate oven 
about thirty minutes. Frost with boiled icing. 

SPRINGFTKTiP, MASS. 



CREAM BLUEBERRY GINGERBREAD 

1 cupful blueberries 2 cupfuls pastry flour 

1 cupful molasses I/2 teaspoonful salt 

1 cupful sour cream 1 teaspoonful ginger 

2 teaspoonfuls soda 

Mix together the molasses and cream, but reserve one- 
fourth cupful of the flour to mix with the blueberries. Add 
the dry ingredients to the molasses mixture. Fold in the blue- 
berries, and place in the oven as quickly as possible. Bake 
gently for thirty minutes. The gingerbread should be about 
one and one-half inches thick. yonke^, n. y. 



**DOM ECON" CAKE 

2 squares chocolate 1 cupful sugar 

%, cupful butter 1 cupful pastry flour 

1/2 cupful boiling water %, cupful sour milk 

1 egg % teaspoonful soda 

Pour water over chocolate and butter, stir until melted. 
Add sugar, flour, with which soda has been sifted, and milk. 
Break whole egg in last and beat. Bake in two layers and 
use this filling: 

1 cupful milk 1 square chocolate 

2 tablespoonfuls flour 1^ cupful sugar 

1 egg-yolk 

Scald milk and melt chocolate in it ; beat egg-yolk and add 
sugar and flour mixed together. Pour hot milk over the egg 
mixture; cook in a double-boiler until it forms a custard. 
Cool and place between the layers. Ice the top of the cake 
with any white frosting. teoy, pa. 



Z* UOOD HOUSEKEEPING S tJOOK OF 



EGOLESS CHOCOLATE CAKE 

2 squares chocolate 1 teaspoonful soda 

1 cupful sugar 1 cupful milk 

1 tablespoonful melted shorten- 1^ cupfuls bread flour 
ing 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

}/^ teaspoonful salt 

Dissolve the soda in a half-cupful of milk. Grate the 
chocolate and melt it in the remainder of the milk. Mix 
together the sugar and shortening, add vanilla, salt, the soda 
dissolved in the milk, and the flour; beat thoroughly. Then 
beat in the milk, still hot, in which the chocolate has been 
melted. Bake in a loaf about fifty minutes in a moderate 
oven. This cake will keep moist for several days. 

HOLYOKE, MASS. 

EGOLESS NUGGET CAKE 

2 cupfuls light-brown sugar I/2 teaspoonful soda 

1/^ cupful shortening 1 teaspoonful baking-powder 

1 cupful sour milk 1 cupful raisins or chopped 

2 cupfuls pastry flour dates 

% teaspoonful salt 1 cupful walnut or pecan meats 

2 squares chocolate 

Cream the shortening and the sugar. Sift the salt, bak- 
ing-powder and soda with the flour. Mix the flour and milk 
with shortening and sugar, and add the nuts, raisins and 
lastly chocolate, which has been melted over hot water. Bake 
thirty-five minutes in a moderate oven. Frost with mocha 
frosting. Cambria, wis. 

FAIRY GINGERBREAD 

% cupful butter 1 egg 

1 cupful sugar 1 teaspoonful soda 

1 tablespoonful ginger I/2 cupful milk 

2 cupfuls bread flour 

Cream the butter, add sugar gradually, and when very 
light, add the soda dissolved in a tablespoonful of water and 
mixed with the milk. Then turn in the beaten egg, the gin- 



Kecipes and Household Discoveries 25 

ger, and stir in the flour. Clean the bottoms of several square 
baking-pans and brush them with oil or suet. Spread the mix- 
ture over these in the thinnest possible layer, using the pans 
upside down. Bake them in a moderate oven, and as soon 
as they are light brown, take them out, cut down the center 
and then across, making four pieces. Roll each quickly oyer 
a pencil or steel, starting with the cut edge. This must be 
done while the wafers are hot, and as they cool quickly, it is 
wiser not to bake more than two pans at a time. 



GABRIELLE CAKE 

3 eupfuls brown sugar 1 teaspoonful soda 

2 eupfuls butter 4i/^ eupfuls pastry flour 

5 eggs 1 pound raisins 

1 cupful milk Citron as desired 

Juice and rind 1 lemon 1 nutmegr 



Cream butter and sugar; add the egg-yolks, beaten very 
light ; then the milk, gradually, with the soda dissolved in 
it ; then the whites, beaten stiff, and then the flour, lemon, 
and nutmeg. Reserve a little of the flour, and dust the fruit 
with it last of all; beat well. This makes two good loaves, 
and will keep well. concord, mass. 



GRAHAM CRACKER CAKE 

1 cupful sugar 2 teaspoonfuls baking-powder 

^2 eupful butter or margarin 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

11/2 eupfuls milk 1 pound powdered Grraham 

3 eggs crackers 

1 teaspoonful salt 



Cream together shortening and sugar, then add the egg- 
yolks one at a time, and the milk, alternating with the gra- 
ham crackers mixed with the baking-powder and salt. Add 
flavoring and the egg-whites beaten stiff and bake in layers 
or a loaf. Ice with Quality Frosting. The crackers should 
oe rolled and sifted. sanfokd, fla. 



"26 Good Housekeeping's Book of 

HICKORY-NUT CAKE 

1 cupful butter 1 cupful chopped hickory-nut 

2 cnpfuls sugar meats 

4 eggs 21/2 cupfuls pastry flour 

1/2 cupful milk 1 teaspoonful lemon juice 

1 cupful chopped raisins 1/2 teaspoonful soda 

1/2 teaspoonful salt 

Cream together the butter and sugar, add lemon juice and 
the egg-yolks beaten till lemon-colored. Sift together the 
soda, salt, and flour, add the nut-meats and raisins, and stir 
alternately into the cake-mixture with the milk. Then fold 
in the egg-whites beaten stiff and dry. Bake an hour in a 
moderate oven and ice with plain white frosting. 

REDDING, CONN. 

HOT WATER SPONGE CAKE 

2 eggs 3^ cupful hot water 
1 cupful sugar 1 cupful bread flour 
y2 teaspoonful vanilla 1/2 teaspoonful salt 

11/4 teaspoonfuls baking-powder 

Separate eggs; beat yolks till thick, add sugar gradually, 
and then the vanilla. Stir in the hot water; add this mix- 
ture to the flour, baking-powder, and salt, which should be 
sifted together, stirring only enough to mix the ingredients. 
Beat ^g-whites till stiff, fold into the mixture, and bake 
about fifty minutes in a very moderate oven. If desired, 
stemmed and halved strawberries, pitted cherries, or sliced 
peaches, well sprinkled with sugar, may be put in the bottom 
of a greased baking-pan, and this mixture poured over. It 
then becomes a pudding and should be eaten with a vanilla 
sauce or whipped cream. van wert, 0. 

IDLEWILD MAPLE CAKE 

1 cupful crushed maple-sugar 1 cupful sour cream 

1 esrg 2 cupfuls bread flour 

Few grains salt 1 teaspoonful soda 

If the maple-sugar is hard, crush till of the consistency of 
brown sugar, or if very dry, let it stand an hour or two in 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 27 

the cream until dissolved. Add the egg to the sugar, and 
stir thoroughly. Turn in the cream, and then beat in the 
flour sifted with the soda. Bake in square layer-cake pans. 
A half cupful of walnut -meats is a delicious addition. Put 
together with maple frosting. vvtashington, d. C. 



LIGHT FRUIT CAKE 

2 cupfuls butter Rosewater 

2 cupfuls sugar 1 pound candied pineapple 

4 cupfuls pastry flour 1 pound candied cherries 

8 eggs 1 pound blanched almonds 

Brandy V2 pound citron 

1 coconut, grated 

Shred the cherries, cut the pineapple and citron in bits, 
and chop the almonds. With the fruit mix three tablespoon- 
fuls of brandy, and with the almonds two tablespoonfuls of 
rosewater, and allow all to stand overnight. Wash the but- 
ter in rosewater, cream it with the sugar, add the egg-yolks 
well beaten, then the coconut, flour, one cupful of brandy, 
and the egg-whites (whipped stiff), putting them in alter- 
natel3^ Finally, stir in the fruit and nuts. Bake very 
slowly from four to five hours. One-half pound of desic- 
(.cated coconut, chopped fine and allowed to stand in two 
tablespoonfuls of rosewater or milk, may be substituted for 
the fresh coconut. The amounts given will make three 
medium-sized cakes or one large one, which will keep in- 
definitely. Cider or white grape juice may be used in place 
of the brandy. 

LUNCHEON CAKE 

1 cupful brown sugar 1 cupful raisins 

% cupful shortening 1 cupful strained stewed toma- 

1 teaspoonful cinnamon toes 

1 teaspoonful cloves 2 cupfuls pastry flour 

2 teaspoonfuls soda 

Cream sugar and shortening together, add spice and 
raisins ; then to the stewed tomato add the soda ; beat well and 
stir all together rapidly with the sifted flour. Bake in a 



28 Good Housekeeping's Book of 

loaf pan. A moist and excellent cake, very wholesome for 
children's school luncheons. eogers, abk, 



MEASURED POUND CAKE 

5 cupf uls pastry flour lyo cupf uls milk 

3 cupfuls sugar 9 eggs 

2 cupfuls butter 2 teaspoonfuls baking-powder 

1 teaspoouful almond extract 

Work butter and sugar together till creamy ; then add the 
extract and egg-yolks well beaten. Sift together the flour 
and baking-powder, and add alternately with milk ; then stir 
in the egg-whites, beaten very stiff. Bake in two brick- 
shaped tins for an hour at 375° F. 

GRAFTON, mo. 



MOIST GINGERBREAD 

1 tablespoonful shortening 1 teaspoonful soda 

1 cupful molasses 1^/2 teaspoonfuls ginger 
1^ teaspoonfuls salt 1/3 teaspoonful cloves 

2 cupfuls pastry flour Hot water 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients; add the molasses. Put 
the shortening in a cup and fill with boiling water. "When 
the shortening is melted, add to the mixture. Beat well, pour 
into a greased cake-pan or muffin-pans. Bake in a moder- 
ate oven twenty-five minutes. houlton, me. 



MOTHER'S PORK CAKE 

1 pound fat salt pork 2 eggs 

2 cupfuls boiling water 2 teaspoonfuls soda 

1 pound chopped raisins 1 teaspoonful ginger 

2 cupfuls sugar 1 teaspoonful cinnamon 
About 9 cupfuls pastry flour 1 teaspoonful nutmeg 

2 cupfuls molasses 1 teaspoonful cloves 

Put the pork through a food-chopper; place it in a large 
mixing-bowl and pour the boiling water over it. Add the 
sugar, the molasses, the eggs well beaten, and the soda and 



Kecipes and Household Discoveries 29 

spices sifted with, one-half the flour. Then add the raisins 
well dusted with more of the flour. Then add more flour, 
enough to make the usual cake batter. Bake in a well greased 
and floured deep, round pan in a slow (275° F.) oven for 
five to six hours. auburn, me. 



MRS. WING'S PRUNE CAKE 

tYs cupfuls stewed prunes, 5 tablespoonfuls sour cream or 

stoned milk 

1% cupfuls sugar 1 teaspoonful cinnamon 

11/2 cupfuls pastry flour 1 teaspoonful nutmeg 

1 teaspoonful soda 1 teaspoonful cloves 

% teaspoonful baking-powder %, teaspoonful lemon extract 

^4 teaspoonful salt 2 egg-yolks 

^ cupful butter 1 whole egg 

Cream together the sugar and butter, add the eggs beaten, 
the sour milk, prunes, and lemon-extract, and the flour, bak- 
ing-powder, soda, salt, and spices sifted together. Pour into 
layer-cake pans and bake thirty minutes in a moderate oven, 
starting at 375° F. and reducing heat. Put together with 
white boiled frosting. If desired one-half cupful of chopped 
walnut meats may be added with the flour. This cake keeps 
moist for some time, and is also delicious put together with 
whipped and sweetened cream. eureka, cal. 



ORANGE CAKE 

1 cupful sugar 1 cupful bread flour 

3 egg-yolks 1^4 teaspoonfuls baking-powder 

Juice 1 orange 2 egg-whites 

Few grains salt 

Beat the egg-yolks till creamy, add the sugar, and blend 
thoroughly. Measure the orange juice and add water, if nec- 
essary, to make a half-cupful of liquid. Mix the baking- 
powder with the flour, and add alternately to first mixture 
with the orange juice. Fold in the egg-whites beaten stiff. 
Bake in layers about five minutes in a hot oven, reduce the 
heat, and cook more slowly till the cake is done, about fif- 
teen minutes in all. Put together and ice with orange frost- 



30 Good Housekeeping's Book op 

ing, or use a jelly or whipped-cream filling, and sprinkle 
powdered sugar over the top. This cake will keep moist 
for several days. Toronto, can. 

ORANGE CHOCOLATE CAKE 

y^ pound bitter chocolate 2 eggs 

1/2 cupful shortening 2 teaspoonfuls vanilla 

11/2 cupfuls sugar 1 teaspoonful soda 

IV2 cupfuls milk % teaspoonful salt 

2 cupfuls pastry flour 3 tablespoonfuls hot water 

Orange icing 

Cut up the chocolate and put in a saucepan with the milk 
and one-half cupful of the sugar, letting it heat to boUing 
point, stirring occasionally, and boiling five minutes. Cool 
and add the vanilla. In the meantime cream the shortening 
and the remaining sugar thoroughly together, add the eggs 
beaten and stir vigorously. Add the hot water. Alternate 
the flour sifted with soda and salt, and the chocolate mixture, 
stirring them in thoroughly. Bake in two layers in a mod- 
erate oven (375° F.) for thirty minutes. Put together and 
cover the top with orange icing, or put together with straw- 
berry cinnamon filling just before serving, and cover the top 
with whipped and sweetened cream. sanford, fla. 

QUICK SPICE CAKE 

5 tablespoonfuls soft lard or 124 cupfuls pastry flour 
drippings 3 teaspoonfuls baking-powder 

1 }/^ cupfuls medium brown sugar ^A teaspoonful nutmeg 

2 eggs Vk teaspoonful clove 
V2 cupful cold water 1 cupful halved raisins 

Put all ingredients together in a bowl and beat thoroughly. 
Turn into a medium-sized cake-pan and bake in a moderate 
oven about forty-five minutes. lee with brown sugar frost- 
ing. WORCESTER, MASS. 

RAISIN CAKE 

1 cupful brown sugar % teaspoonful baking-soda 

1 cupful water % cupful barley flour 

2 tablespoonfuls chicken fat % cupful wheat flour 
14 teaspoonful salt V2 teaspoonful cloves 

% pound raisins 1^ teaspoonful cinnamon 



Recipes and Household Discoveribs 31 

Boil together for five minutes the sugar, water, shortening, 
salt, and raisins. Let stand until thoroughly cold and add 
the dry ingredients sifted together. Bake in a loaf-pan about 
one hour in a slow oven. This may be served as a dessert 
with a sauce if desired. moylan, pa. 



SOUR MILK GINGERBREAD 

1 cupful molasses % teaspoonful grated nutmeg 

1 cupful brown sugar 3^ cupfuls bread flour 

1 cupful shortening 2 teaspoonfuls soda 

1 teaspoonful ground cinnamon % teaspoonful salt 

1 tablespoonful ginger 1 cupful sour milk or buttermilk 

Place in a deep bowl the molasses, brown sugar, shorten- 
ing, cinnamon, ginger, and nutmeg. Stand the bowl in a 
warm place or in hot water until the shortening softens, then 
beat the contents to a cream. Sift together the bread flour, 
soda, and salt. Add these to the other ingredients, alternating 
with the sour milk or buttermilk. Beat vigorously and bake 
forty minutes in a moderate oven. Philadelphia, pa. 

STRAWBERRY CAKE 

One-e^g cake mixture Whites of 2 eggs 

1 cupful sugar 1 cupful ripe strawberries 

Bake the cake in two layers. Put the strawberries, crushed, 
in a bowl ; add the sugar. Beat the egg-whites stiff and dry, 
then add the berries and sugar gradually, continuing the beat- 
ing until it will hold its shape. Put the cake on a large plate 
with the filling between the layers and on top, and garnish 
with whole berries. 

AKRON, 0. 

WHITE LAYER CAKE 

1^ cupfuls granulated sugar 3 cupfuls pastry flour 

V^ cupful butter 4 teaspoonfuls baking-powder 

1 cupful milk 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

6 egg-whites 



32 Eecipes and Household Discoveries 

Cream the butter, add sugar gradually, and cream till very 
light and fluffy. Sift flour and baking-powder together three 
times, add this alternately with the milk to the first mixture 
until all is used. Then fold in the egg-whites beaten stiff 
and the vanilla. Bake in three small or two large, well-oiled 
layer-cake pans for forty minutes in a moderate oven, 375*^ F. 
for the first thirty minutes, then at a lower heat. Put to- 
gether with thick white icing. middletown, ind. 



YALE BLUEBERRY CAKE 

^/4 cupful butter % teaspoonful salt 

^ cupful sugar Few drops lemon or orange ex- 

1 egg traot 

1^ cupfuls pastry flour % cupful water 

% teaspoonful soda 1 cupful blueberries 

1 teaspoonful cream of tartar 

Cream together butter, sugar, and egg-yolk; sift the flour 
with the soda, cream of tartar, and salt, and add alternately 
with the water to first mixture. Add flavoring and egg-white 
beaten stiff. Spread half the batter in a pan, add berries to 
remaining batter, and spread on top. Bake about forty-five 
minutes in a moderate oven. harvard, mass. 



Confections 



CARAMELS 

2 pounds light-brown sugar 1 cupful nut-kemels, preferably 

14 cupful butter black walnuts. 

1 pint new milk 

Bring sugar, butter, and milk to boiling-point, then stir con- 
stantly till the mixture is so thick that a ball of caramel 
texture will be formed when a little is dropped into ice-cold 
water. Add nuts while still over the heat, remove the spoon 
before boiling ceases, and pour into a buttered pan to the 
depth of half an inch. When cool turn the sheet of caramel 
upon a board or marble slab, cut in squares, and wrap in 
paraffin-paper. Care should be exercised in finishing the 
caramels. Be sure to remove the spoon before the mixture 
ceases to boil, and do not drain the kettle or the caramel will 
sugar ; instead pour the mixture out quickly and scrape what 
remains into another dish. To vary the caramels add a cupful 
of grated chocolate, or omit the nuts and flavor with a tea- 
spoonful of vanilla. These directions should be followed care- 
fully. MIDDLETOWN, END. 

CHOCOLATE MINT FUDGE 

4 cupfuls light-brown sugar % cupful mint-sirup 

114 cupfuls milk 1 tablespoonful butter 

4 tablespoonfuls cocoa 

Mix sugar, milk, butter, and mint-sirup. When mixture 
comes to a boil, add cocoa. Cook slowly to 238° F. or until it 
forms a soft ball when dropped in cold water. Put kettle into 
a pan of cold water and beat until stiff. Pour into buttered 
pan and cut in squares. terre haute, ind. 

33 



34 Good Housekeeping's Book op 



CHOCOLATE NOUGAT 

2 ounces unsweetened chocolate 4 tablespoonfuls butter 

2 cupfuls sugar 2 teaspoonfuls glucose 

1/^ cupful water 1 cupful shredded English wal- 

1 teaspoonful vanilla nut meats 

Shred or grate the chocolate, and put it into a saucepan 
with the sugar, water, butter, and glucose. Stir over the 
fire until dissolved, then remove the spoon and boil until a 
little forms a soft ball when tested in cold water, or until 
240° F. is registered by the candy thermometer. Pour into 
a wet bowl, add the shredded English walnut meats, vanilla, 
and stir occasionally until thick. Line a small wafer or 
cracker tin with wafer paper, pour in the nougat mixture, 
and cover with another piece of wafer paper. Set aside to 
cool, then turn out and cut in convenient-sized pieces. Serve 
in paper eases. oradell, n. j. 



COCONUT CAKES 
% lb. dried, shredded coconut 1 can condensed milk 

Mix together and drop from a spoon on a well-oiled pan. 
Cook in a sl&w oven for twenty-five minutes. This recipe 
makes three dozen cookies. urbana, o. 

CONSERVATION SWEETMEATS 

1 package dates (10 ounces) I/2 pound seeded raisins 

Ys teaspoonful ground cinnamon 1/2 pound dipping chocolate 
y2 teaspoonful vanilla 

Put the dates and raisins through the food-chopper; add 
the flavoring. Form into small balls. Melt the chocolate in 
a double-boiler. Drop the sweetmeats into the melted choco- 
late one at a time. Remove with a silver form and place on 
waxed paper to cool and harden. To retain the glaze on 
chocolate-covered candies, add one tablespoonful of olive-oil 
or one-half ounce of cocoa butter to the chocolate. 

HARTFORD, CONN. 



Recipes and Household Discoveribb 35 



CORN CRUNCH 

2 cupfuls eom-sirup 1 teaspoonful margarin 

1 cupful nut meats (not 1 cupful raisins (not chopped) 
chopped) 

Cook corn-sirup until it forms a hard ball in water. Remove 
from fire; add margarin. When margarin has melted, stir 
in nuts and raisins. Pour into a greased pan. When partly 
cooled, mark into squares, or wait until cool and then break 
into irregular pieces. hyattsville, md. 

CORN FLAKE KISSES 

2 cupfuls corn flakes 1 cupful granulated sugar 
2 egg-whites 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

1 cupful coconut 

Beat the whites of the eggs till stiff and dry ; gradually add 
the sugar, and beat continuously for two minutes, then add 
the other ingredients, stirring only long enough to mix thor- 
oughly. Drop by teaspoonfuls on oiled paper, and bake in 
a very moderate oven. This recipe will make about two and 
a half dozen kisses. pekin, ill.. 

CREAM ALMOND DATES 

% cupful fondant Stoned dates 

Coloring Flavoring 

y^ cupful ground almonds 

Put into a saucepan the fondant and ground almonds, and 
stir and mix thoroughly over the fire. Turn out onto a board 
and knead in color and flavor as desired. Roll in oval por- 
tions and place in the centers of stoned dates. Decorate to 
taste with crystallized mint-leaves, violets, or rose-leaves. 

ORADELL, N. J. 

DATE KISSES 

2 ^g-whites 1 cupful broken walnut meats 

1 cupful powdered sugar 1 cupful chopped dates 



36 Eecipes and Household Discoveries 

Beat egg-whites stiff, add other ingredients in the order 
given, drop from a teaspoon into buttered pans, and bake till 
delicately brown in a slow oven. This makes two and a half 
dozen kisses. hackensack, n, j. 

PECAN PRALINES 

1 pound brown sugar ^ cupful butter 

2 eupf uls whole pecan meats ^ cupful water 

Stir the sugar, water, and butter together over a slow fire 
until the sugar is thoroughly dissolved. Add the pecans and 
boil until the thermometer registers 254° F. or until the 
mixture forms a hard ball when tested in cold water. Have 
ready a large slab, clean and well oiled, and drop the mix- 
ture like pancakes, allowing them to spread out till about 
one-third inch thick and five inches in diameter. "Work 
quickly. new Orleans, la. 

RUSSIAN TOFFY 

^ pound light-brown sugar 2 teaspoonfuls butter 

1 can condensed milk 1 tablespoonful vanilla 

Melt butter, sugar, and milk together in a saucepan over 
a slow fire. Do not let the mixture burn, but as it browns 
on the bottom, scrape it off and stir it in until the color 
becomes a golden brown. Stir constantly. It takes from 
fifteen to twenty minutes. "When done, add vanilla and pour 
in a buttered p .n. Cut into squares when it begins to harden. 

NEWTON, n. j. 



Cheese Dishes 



BAKED CHEESE 

Buttered bread % cupful milk 

lYo eupfuls diced cheese Salt, pepper, and paprika to 

1 egg taste 

Butter a fire-proof baking-dish and line it with the buttered 
bread, laying whole slices on the bottom, cutting small pieces 
to fill in around these, and standing long strips of bread 
around the sides. Put in the cheese; beat the egg and add 
to it the milk and the seasoning, the amount of which depends 
on the strength of the cheese ; pour this mixture over the 
cheese and bake in a moderate oven till the cheese is melted 
and the dish is brown. As it is better to entirely cover the 
cheese with the milk mixture, a bowl or casserole with sloping 
sides is the best to use. More milk can be added if a very 
moist dish is desired. miffintown, pa. 



CHEESE PUDDING 

1^/4 eupfuls gTated cheese ^ teaspoonful salt 

1 cupful cracker-enambs % teaspoonful dry mustard 

2 eupfuls rich milk Few grains red pepper 

3 eggs Vs teaspoonful soda 

iy2 tablespoonfuls melted butter 

Soak crumbs in the milk while the other ingredients are 
being prepared; add the eggs well beaten, the seasonings, 
butter and cheese, and the soda dissolved in a little hot water. 

?7 



38 Good Housekeeping's Book of 

Bake an hour in a moderate oven, serving in the dish in which 
it is cooked. fort smith, ark. 



CHEESE RAREBIT WITH MILK 

1^2 cupfuls cheese, cubed or % teaspoonful mustard 

sliced Few grains paprika 

2 eggs 2 cupfuls scalded milk 

2 tablespoonfuls flour 2 tablespoonfuls butter (omit if 

y-i teaspoonful salt desired) 

% teaspoonfvd pepper 

Mix ingredients in the order given in a double boiler top. 
Add milk and stir over hot water until thick and smooth. 
Serve on toast or crisp crackers. new york, n. y. 

CHEESE WITH CHIVES 

1 cream cheese 1 teaspoonful chopped chives 

y^ teaspoonful salt 2 tablespoonfuls sweet cream 

Paprika 

Beat the sweet cream into the cheese, add salt, chives, and 
paprika to make it salmon-color. Reshape into a roll, chill, 
and slice for serving. This can be made into a delicious salad 
by forming into small balls, and serving on lettuce or cress 
with French dressing. Brooklyn, n. y. 

CHINESE RAREBIT 

1 cupful boiled rice 1^/4 teaspoonfuls salt 

4 well-beaten eggs 1 teaspoonful Worcestershire 

4 tablespoonfuls milk sauce 

2 tablespoonfuls butter Vs teaspoonful pepper 

1 cupful cheese 

Saute the rice in butter, add the eggs with the milk, and 
cook slowly. When nearly thick enough add salt and pepper, 
Worcestershire sauce, and the cheese grated. Just allow the 
cheese to melt. The mixture should be of the consistency 
of thin scrambled eggs. Serve on toast or crackers. 

DANBURY, CONN. 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 39 



COMBINATION RAREBIT 

^ cupful grated cheese 1 cupful milk 

14 pound spaghetti, cooked ten- % teaspoonful salt 

der Vs teaspoonful pepper 

L cupful minced, boiled, or fried i^ cupful dry bread-crumbs 

ham mixed with 

I tablespoonfuls butter 2 tablespoonf uk butter or melted 
J tablespoonfuls flour ham-fat 

Butter a casserole. Melt the butter in a saucepan, gradu- 
illy add the flour and seasonings, and then the milk and 
cheese, allowing the latter to melt. Put a layer of the 
ipaghetti in the casserole, sprinkle over a little of the ham 
md then some of the sauce. Continue in this way till all 
s used, top with the crumbs, and bake fifteen minutes in a 
lot oven. The proportions of ham, spaghetti, and cheese 
nay be varied as may seem advisable if left-overs are being 

Itilized. HAMILTON, MONT. 

COTTAGE CHEESE 

■ quarts freshly soured milk Salt 

lot water Sweet cream 

Place the sour milk in a large crockery bowl — a lai^ 
[uantity of milk should always be used. Pour hot water 
lowly into it. The water should be about 150° F., not boiling. 
!!ontinue pouring in the hot water until the mixture is luke- 
warm. Let it stand for two or three hours or until cold, and 
hen pour it into a cheese-cloth strainer to drain for several 
lOurs. Before serving the cheese, break it into fine pieces with 
, silver fork and mash well. Season with salt to taste and add 
weet cream, if necessary, to make it soft and moist. Stir till 
well mixed, and pack it into molds. Chill and serve. 



COTTAGE CHEESE WITH DATES 
^ cupful stoned dates l^/^ cupfuls cottage cheese 

Cut dates in halves and steam them until tender enough to 
)ierce easily with a fork. When cool mix lightly with the 



40 Good Housekeeping's Book op 

cheese. Chill, and serve with cream and toasted wafers as 
a luncheon dish. Enough to serve three. dover, minn, 

DAINTY CHEESE 

1 cupful cream cheese 1 hard-cooked egg, chopped fine 

1 tablespoonful melted butter H teaspoonful salt 

15 stuffed olives, chopped Few grains cayenne pepper 

H teaspoonful onion-juice 

Mash the cheese, add ingredients in order given, mix well, 
pack into a mold, and when very cold turn out and serve 
with crackers. 

FIGS AND CHEESE 

Whole figs Cream cheese 

Make small incisions in as many figs as are desired and 
fill with cream cheese, moistened with a little sweet cream and 
beaten till soft. Serve with salad or with crackers and coffee 
at the end of a dinner. akron, o. 

FKAPPED CAMEMBERT 

A Camembert cheese ^/^ teaspoonful paprika 

2 tablespoonf uls butter 3 or 4 dashes tabasco 

Thoroughly beat a well ripened Camembert cheese with 
the butter, paprika, tabasco, and "Worcestershire Sauce. Beat 
until smooth, then chill thoroughly and serve in a dish sur- 
rounded by finely crushed ice. Accompany it with piping- 
hot toasted crackers. Tiny balls of this Frapped Camembert 
can be rolled in paprika until they are bright red. Serve 

3 drops Worchestershire sauce 
four or five of these on leaves of lettuce or romaine with 
French dressing. new york, n. y. 

LUNCHEON RICE 

4 cupfuls cold boiled rice ^ cupful grated cheese 

V2 cupful crumbled corn flakes % cupful tomato catchup 
1 tablespoonful oil 



Eecipes and Household Discoveries 41 

Put rice in a buttered baking-dish. Stir in with it enough 
catchup to moisten and color it, but keeping the mixture quite 
stiff. Cover with a layer of the corn flakes, sprinkle with oil, 
and on top place a layer of grated cheese. Bake in a mod- 
erate oven till the cheese is delicately browned, ashland, ky. 



OLD-FASHIONED RAEEBIT 
% pound American cheese ^ pound bacon 

Slice the bacon moderately thin, and fry the slices on one 
side, then turn them, and lay the cheese sliced thin on each 
piece of bacon. It should cover the bacon well. Sprinkle 
with paprika. Cover the frying-pan, and cook gently until 
the turned side of the bacon is done. The cheese will melt 
and be crisp at the edges. If desired this may be served 
on hot buttered toast, but it should be eaten at once. 

NEW HAVEN, CONN. 

POOR MAN'S CHEESE PUDDING 

5 tablespoonfuls brown rice 3 teaspocnfuls salt 

2 eupfuls grated cheese 3 cupfuls milk 

Add the uncooked rice and salt to the milk and pour into 
a buttered baking-dish. Bake until nearly tender in a slow 
oven, stirring occasionally. At the last stirring add the cheese 
and bake enough longer to brown it. angola, ind. 

RICE AND CHEESE 

3 cupfuls boiled rice 3 teaspoonfuls butter 

3 egg-whites 1 J^ eupfuls grated American 

1 cupful light cream or rich milk cheese 

Cracker-crumbs 

Butter a pudding-dish and sprinkle with cracker-crumbs. 
Place the rice, which should be warm, in a bowl and beat till 
very light. Add the egg-whites whipped till stiff, and beat 
these together. Spread in one-third of the rice, sprinkle 
thickly with one-third of the cheese, dot with one teaspoonful 
of butter, and sprinkle with cracker-crumbs. Repeat till there 



42 Recipes and Household Discoveries 

are three layers; then pour in the cream and bake thirty 
minutes in a moderate oven, wbLiLESLEY, mass. 



RICE RAREBIT 

5 tablespoonfuls butter i^ teaspoonful salt 

1 cupful milk y-2. teaspoonful mustard 

1 pound soft American cheese 3 cupfuls hot boiled rice 

1^ tablespoonfuls flour Paprika 

Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter in a saucepan, add the 
flour and gradually the milk. When smooth, turn in the 
cheese, which should be shaved fine or put through the food- 
chopper. Cook gently till it is melted, stirring often, and 
then season and keep hot. In the meantime the rice should 
be boiled dry and mixed with the rest of the butter. Press into 
sauce-dishes with sm^ll cups or wine-glasses inverted in each 
to make ring-molds. Turn out on individual plates and cover 
with the cheese-mixture. Hollow rings may be fashioned 
easily by the hand. middletown. conn. 



THICKENED MILK TOAST WITH NEUFCHATEL 
CHEESE 

1 pint milk 6 slices dry toast 

2 tablespoonfuls fat 6 tablespoonfuls Neufchatel 
2 tablespoonfuls flour cheese 

% teaspoonful salt 

Melt the fat and add the flour gradually until the mix- 
ture is smooth. Add the cold milk, a little at a time, stirring 
constantly until thickened. Season to taste. Spread the 
slices of dry toast with Neufchatel cheese, allowing one table- 
spoonful to each slice. Dip the toast in the white sauce, and 
arrange in serving dish. Pour remaining sauce over all. 
Plain seasoned hot milk may be poured over the toast spread 
with the Neufchatel cheese, if desired. Brooklyn, n. t. 



Cookies 



1 cupful butter 
% cupful sugar 
Ys teaspoonful salt 



ANIMAL COOKIES 

Flavoring 

2 tablespoonfuls sour cream 
1 egg 
Pastry flour 



Cream the butter, add sugar, beat well. Add egg, cream, 
salt, flavoring, and sufficient flour to roll out. Roll very thin 
and cut in fanc}- shapes. Bake in a moderate oven. These 
cookies may be sprinkled with sugar before baking or covered 
with a simple frosting afterward. 

BROWN SUGAR COOKIES 



2 cupfuls brown sugar 

1 cupful softened margarin 

3 eggs 

% teaspoonful salt 



1 teaspoonful soda 

1/4 cupful milk 

1 teaspoonful vanilla 

About 5 cupfuls pastry flour 



Cream together the margarin and sugar, add the eggs well 
beaten, the milk, the vanilla, and half the flour sifted with 
the salt and soda. Add more flour, enough to make a dough 
which may be rolled. Cut in any desired shapes and bake 
about ten minutes in a 400° F. oven. Milwaukee, wis. 



BUTTERMILK DOUGHNUTS I 



1 egg 

Yo tablespoonful melted butter 

3 cupfuls bread flour 

% teaspoonful salt 



1 cupful buttermilk 
43 



V2 cupful sugar 

1/2 teaspoonful grated nutmeg 0* 

1 teaspoonful vanilla 

1/^ teaspoonful soda 



44 Good Housekeeping's Book op 

Beat the egg very light and add to it the sugar, melted 
butter, grated nutmeg, or vauilla. Sift the flour with soda 
and salt, and add to the first mixture alternately with the but- 
termilk. Add more flour if needed, but handle as soft as pos- 
sible. Turn on to the molding-board and knead very lightly; 
roll to a quarter of an inch in thickness and cut in circles. 
Fry in deep hot fat. Drain the doughnuts on soft paper and 
when they are cool, sift powdered sugar over them. 

PHILADELPHIA, PA. 



BUTTERMILK DOUGHNUTS II 

1 cupful granulated sugar 1 teaspoonful soda 

1 egg 1 teaspoonful salt 

y2 teaspoonful grated nutmeg 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar 

1 cupful buttermilk 1 teaspoonful baking-powder 

About 3 cupfuls bread flour ^4 teaspoonful ground ginger 

Put the first three ingredients in mixing bowl, beat well; 
add buttermilk, leaving about one tablespoonful in cup to 
dissolve soda. Add the other dry ingredients to the flour, 
and beat the mixture smooth before all the flour is added. 
Use just enough flour to roll and handle easily. Fry in hot 
deep fat. Atlantic, mass. 



CAROLINA TEA CAKES 

1 cupful sugar 1 cupful currants floured with ^ 

2 eggs cupful flour 

2 scant cupfuls pastry flour % cupful butter 

1 teaspoonful baking-powder % cupful milk 

%, teaspoonful salt 

Dip hands in hot water, and cream butter and sugar to- 
gether till gi'ain of sugar is almost lost in butter. Add eggs 
one by one, unbeaten ; then add flour, mixed and sifted with 
baking-powder and salt, alternately with milk. Add floured 
currants last. Mix well. Pour in greased gem-pans and 
bake in hot oven ten to fifteen minutes. Delicious hot. 

cedabhurst, l. I. 



Eecipes and Household Discoveries 45 



CHINESE CHEWS 

1 cupful dates, chopped % cupful pastry flour 

1 cupful English walnuts, 1 teaspoonful baking-powder 

chopped 2 eggs 

1 cupful sugar ^ teaspoonful salt 

Mix all dry ingredients together, put in the dates and nuts, 
and stir in the eggs after beating them light. Bake in as 
thin a sheet as can be spread and when done cut in small 
squares and roll into balls. Then roll them in granulated 

sugar. NORTH BEND, ORE. 



CHOCOLATE ALMOND COOKIES 

3 eupfuls brown sugar % pound chopped blanched al^ 

4 eggs monds 

2 teaspoonfuls cinnamon 1 tablespoonful melted butter 

y^ teaspoonful gi-ound cloves 2 teaspoonfuls baking-powder 

2 squares melted chocolate Entire-wheat flour 

Beat eggs well, add sugar and melted butter. Sift togethei 
one cupful of entire-wheat flour with cinnamon, cloves, and 
baking-powder. Add to the mixture. Then add the choco- 
late and the almonds and enough more flour to make a dough 
stiff enough to shape in the hands. Roll in finger lengths 
or small balls. Place in greased pans not too close together 
with an almond on each cake. Bake in a quick oven. 

ANDOVER, o. 



CHOCOLATE ANIMALS 

% pound sweet dipping choeo- 1 tablespoonful olive- or salad- 
late oil 
Animal crackers 

Melt the dipping chocolate in the top of a double-boiler, 
and add while it is melting the olive- or salad-oil. Let the 
chocolate melt, stirring it frequently. Pour about half of it 
into a shallow dish and manipulate the chocolate with the 



46 Good Housekeeping's Book op 

fingers until it has become cool, about 80° F., and has started 
to harden on the sides of the dish. Then dip animal crackers, 
such as can be purchased in any good grocery store, into the 
chocolate, covering each one entirely. Drop on paraffin paper 
to dry. These chocolate animals are delicious and more whole- 
some than candy. Try them for the children. 

FAIRHAVEN, MASS. 



CHOCOLATE CARAMEL COOKIES 

1^ cupfuls brown sugar y<2. cupful entire-wheat flour 

4 squares unsweetened chocolate % teaspoonful salt 
2 eggs beaten I/2 teaspoonful vanilla 

Melt the chocolate and add the other ingredients in the 
order given. Drop from a teaspoon and bake in a hot oven 
eight to ten minutes. Rochester, n. t. 

CHOCOLATE COOKIES 

1 cupful Ugbt brown sugar 1^2 cupfuls entire-wheat flour 

1/2 cupful melted shortening i/^ cupful chopped raisins 

1 Q^'g % cupful chopped nuts 

■V2 cupful milk 3 squares chocolate melted 

y-i teaspoonful soda, sifted with y^ teaspoonful salt 
flour 

Stir all together in order given and drop on buttered tins a 
teaspoonful at a time and bake in a quick oven, merrill, wis. 



COCOA COOKIES 

1 egg 1 cupful seeded raisins 

14 cupful corn-sirup 4 tablespoonfuls cocoa 

1 cupful coconut 4 tablespoonfuls sifted rice flour 

1 teaspoonful vanilla 

Beat the ^^% until light; add the sirup, coconut, cocoa, 
and vanilla, then raisins which have been mixed with the 
flour. Drop from a teaspoon on greased tins. Bake in a 
moderate oven about twenty minutes. These cookies burn 
easily, so take good care in the baking. davenport, ia. 



Eecipes and Household Discoveries 47 



CORN FLAKE DATE CRACKERS 

1 pound dates, stoned 1 teaspoonful soda 

1 cupful granulated sugar 1 cupful butter or margarin 

y^ cupful cold water 3 eupfuls com flakes 

1 cupful brown sugar 3I/4 eupfuls pastry flour 

^ cupful warm water 

Combine the stoned dates, granulated sugar, and cold water 
in a saucepan. Boil until the dates are soft, and allow to 
cool. Cream the butter and brown sugar together, then add 
the corn flakes and flour and soda sifted together. Mix well, 
then add warm water enough to make a stiff dough. Divide 
the dough into equal parts, roll out thin, spread the date filling 
on one part, put the second layer on top, and cut into squares. 
Place the squares in greased tins and bake in a hot oven ten 
or fifteen minutes. Chicago, ill. 

DATE DOUGHNUTS 

1 cupful sugar 1 teaspoonful baking-powder 

1 tablespoonful melted butter %, teaspoonful nutmeg 

2 eggs %, teaspoonful cinnamon 
y<2, teaspoonful vanilla % teaspoonful salt 

% teaspoonful soda Pastry flour 

1 cupful sour milk Dates 

Stone and halve the dates. Cream butter and sugar to- 
gether, add eggs well beaten, vanilla, sour milk with soda 
added to it, and two eupfuls pastry flour mixed and sifted 
with spices, salt, and baking-powder. Add enough more 
flour to make a soft dough. Roll one-quarter inch thick and 
cut with round cutters as for cookies. Place half a date on 
one side and lap over the other side; press edges together; 
fry in hot deep fat. Roll in powdered sugar. 

DES MOINES, U. 

EASY RAISED DOUGHNUTS 

1 cupful milk %, teaspoonful nutmeg 

1/2 compressed yeast-cake 1 ^^^ 

4 eupfuls bread flour 2 tablespoonfuls melted shorten- 

^ cupful light-brown sugar ing 

y^ teaspoonful cinnamon V2 teaspoonful salt 

\^ teaspoonful soda 



48 Good Housekeeping's Book op 

Scald the milk, cool until luke warm ; then soften the yeast 
cake in one-fourth cupful of it and add to the rest. Stir in 
one and one-half cupfuls of flour. Let raise until light, then 
add the sugar, egg well beaten, shortening, salt, soda, and 
the remainder of the flour sifted with the spices. Knead and 
let raise. When light, roll, cut in desired shapes, warm in a 
moderate oven a few minutes, and fry at once in hot deep 
fat. Roll in sugar. One cupful of entire-wheat flour can 
replace an equal quantity of the bread flour, hampton, conn. 

EGGLESS, SOUR MILK OR BUTTERMILK 
DOUGHNUTS 

1 cupful sour milk or buttermilk % teaspoonful ginger 

% cupful sugar Vs teaspoonful nutmeg 

1 teaspoonful butter 1 teaspoonful biaking-powder 

% teaspoonful salt % teaspoonful cinnamon 

% teaspoonful soda About 3 cuofuls bread flour 

Cream together the butter and sugar. Mix and sift the 
salt, soda, baking-powder, and spices with two cupfuls of 
flour. Add alternately with the milk to the sugar mixture. 
Add more flour if needed to make a dough as soft as can 
be handled and rolled. Roll to a quarter-inch thickness. 
Cut with a doughnut-cutter and fry in hot deep fat. 

LAWRENCE, MASS. 

GINGER NUTS 

3 cupfuls pastry flour 1 cupful molasses 

yi cupful sugar 1 tablespoonful allspice 

^ cupful butter 2 tablespoonfuls ginger 

Mix together in order given ; roll with the hands into small, 
flat nuts as large as a quarter, and lay on pans lined with 
brown paper. Bake in a very slow oven. wilcox, pa. 

GINGER SNAPS 

1 cupful sugar Vz teaspoonful cloves 

% cupful shortening 1 cupful molasses 

% cupful cold, strong tea 2 teaspoonfuls soda 

1 teaspoonful ginger Pastry flour to roll thin, 5 to 6 

% teaspoonful cinnamon cupfuls 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 49 

Cream together sugar and shortening; add spices, tea, and 
the molasses brought to a boil, the soda then being dissolved 
in it. Beat in flour to make a very stiff dough, cover and 
let stand for an hour, or even overnight, so that the flour 
may swell and less be used. Too much flour makes tough 
ginger-snaps. Roll thin, and bake about eight minutes in 
a moderate oven. holyoke, mass. 

HERMIT COOKIES 

3 eggs 1 .teaspoonf ul soda 

1% cupfuls brown sugar 1% cupfuls pastry flour 

% cupful butter 1 cupful entire-wheat flour 

1 cupful raisins % teaspoonful cinnamon 

1 cupful English walnut meats y^ teaspoonful nutmeg 

Cream the butter and sugar. Add the eggs well beaten; 
then the soda sifted in part of the flour. Add the raisins 
and nuts well dusted with the rest of the flour. Roll medium 
thin, and cut into any forms desired. Bake about ten min- 
utes in a quick oven. coldwater, mich. 

HINCHEY FUDGE 

2 ounces bitter chocolate % cupful pastry flour 
1/2 cupful melted butter y^ teaspoonful salt 

3 eggs 1/^ teaspoonful baking-powder 

1 cupful sugar 1 cupful broken pecan meats 

1 teaspoonful vanilla 

Combine the chocolate and butter in a saucepan and cook 
gently till blended. Beat the eggs light, gradually add the 
sugar and then the flour, w^hich has been sifted with the salt 
and baking-powder ; combine the mixtures, add the nut-meats 
and vanilla, and bake in two square layer-cake pans or a small 
dripping-pan about twenty minutes in a moderate oven. Cut 
in squares to imitate fudge. Natchitoches, la. 

KILICRANKERS 

2 cupfuls rolled oats 2 eggs 

y^ cupful shredded coconut 2 teaspoonfuls baking-powder 

1 cupful sugar 2 teaspoonfuls melted butter 

Few grains salt 



50 



Good Housekeeping's Book op 



Beat together egg-yolks and sugar, add butter, salt, and 
coconut, then stir in the roiled oats and baking-powder, and 
the egg-whites beaten stiff. Drop cookies two inches apart 
from a teaspoon onto well-oiled pans. Bake in a moderate 
oven. For a more cooky-like texture add one tablespoonful 

of flour. MINNEAPOLIS, MINN. 

OATMEAL COOKIES I 



1 cupful sugar 

% cupful margarin 

y^ cupful other shortening 

2 eggs 

11/^ cupfuls pastry flour 
2 cupfuls rolled oats 



1 teaspoonful cinnamon 

% teaspoonful salt 

11/2 cupfuls chopped raisins 

1/^ cupful chopped nut meats 

1 teaspoonful soda 

1 tablespoonful vinegar 



Cream together the margarin, shortening, and sugar. Add 
the eggs well beaten, the oats, the flour sifted with the cinna- 
mon and salt, the raisins and nuts, and lastly the soda mixed 
with the vinegar. Mix all together thoroughly, roll out to 
one-eighth inch in thickness, cut, and bake ten minutes in a 
400° P. oven. This recipe makes about four dozen cookies. 

EAST ORANGE, N. J. 



OATMEAL COOKIES II 



cupful hot, cooked oatmeal 
tablespoonfuls shortening 
teaspoonful salt 
cupful sugar 



1 teaspoonful cinnamon 



1/^ cupful halved raisins 

% cupful broken walnut meats 

% cupful molasses 

About 2 cupfuls pastry flour 

1/2 teaspoonful soda 



Mix in order given, and drop two inches apart on a well- 
oiled cooky-sheet. Bake in a moderate oven. 

OMAHA, NEBR. 

OLD-FASHIONED NEW ENGLAND DOUGHNUTS 



1 cupful warm water % cupful butter 

1 compressed yeast-cake 2 eggs 

% teaspoonful salt 1 cupful milk 

1 cupful light brown sugar About 7 cupfuls bread flour 

1/2 teaspoonful nutmeg if desired 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 51 

At noon soften the yeast in the water, add salt and a cupful 
and a half of flour to make a thin batter. At supper-time 
cream together the butter and sugar, stir in the beaten eggs, 
combine with the milk, and add to the sponge. At bedtime 
add enough flour so that it can be easily kneaded, about five 
and a half cupfuls, and set in a warm place overnight. 
In the morning knead thoroughly, let raise again, cut down, 
divide the dough in thirds for more easj^ manipulation, and 
roll to one-half inch thickness. Shape with a doughnut- 
cutter. Lay the doughnuts on a slightly-floured board, let 
raise till double in bulk, fry in hot deep fat and roll in sifted, 
powdered sugar. This makes three dozen doughnuts. 

TOLEDO, lA. 

PLAIN DOUGHNUTS 

1 quart bread flour 6 teaspoonfuls baking-powder 
iy2 teaspoonfuls salt 1^/4 to li/^ cupfuls milk 

Sift together the flour, salt, and baking-powder. Stir in 
enough milk to make a soft biscuit-dough, turn onto a floured 
board, roll lightly, cut in strips, twist once, and fry in deep 
fat hot enough to brown a bit of bread in one minute. Serve 
hot with hot maple-sirup. 

RICH COOKIES 

2 cupfuls butter Rind and juice V2 lemon 

1 cupful sugar 1 teaspoonful baking-powder 

1 cupful finely chopped almonds 5 to 6 cupfuls pastry flour 

2 egg-yolks 1 teaspoonful desired flavoring 

Cream together butter and sugar, stir in egg-yolks, lemon, 
flavoring, and almonds, and then stir in two cupfuls of flour 
mixed with the baking-powder. Work in enough more flour 
to roll, make into thin wafers, sprinkle with sugar, and bake 
in a moderate oven. fond du lac, wis. 

SURE-TO-LIKE COOKIES 



1 cupful sugar 


1 teaspoonful salt 


1 cupful shortening 


2 teaspoonfuls cinnamon 


1 cupful molasses 


21/2 cupfuls buckwheat flour 


1 cupful hot water 


2^ cupfuls rye flour 


ly^ teaspoonfuls soda 


1 cupful rolled oats 



52 Recipes and Household Discoveries 

Cream shortening and sugar together. Add molasses, hot 
water, and the sifted dry ingredients. INIix well and allow 
to stand in a cool place overnight. Drop by spoonfuls on a 
greased pan and bake in a moderate oven. Clarified drippings 
or any of the hardened vegetable fats may be used for the 
shortening. This recipe makes at least fifty cookies. 

UTICA, N. Y. 



Desserts 



APPLE CRACKER PUDDING 

3 medium-sized apples 1 pint milk 

6 large milk or soda crackers 2 eggs 

Cold water i/^ cupful sugar 

1 teaspoonful butter 1 teaspoonful lemon extract 

Nutmeg 

Crumble the crackers into a pudding-dish; pour over these 
enough cold water to soak them until soft. Pare the apples, 
cut laem in halves, remove core, and put them on the stove 
with a small quantity of water; stew ten minutes. Pour 
milk over soaked crackers, add eggs beaten, and stir in the 
apples with the sugar. Add flavoring and grate nutmeg over 
the top of the pudding. Place butter on top just as the pud- 
ding is ready to be put into the oven. Bake in a slow oven 
until firm and brown. Serve hot, augusta, ga. 



APPLE DUMPLINGS 

4 apples Butter 

2 cupfuls sugar Cinnamon 

Milk Rich biscuit-dough 

]\Iake a rich biscuit-dough of two cupfuls of bread flour, 
four teaspoonfuls baking-powder, one teaspoonful salt, and 
four tablespoonfuls lard, and milk to make a dough as soft as 
can be handled comfortably (about three-quarters cupful will 
be needed) . Roll out thin like pie-crust and cut into six equal 
sections. Have ready the apples pared and cut in eighths; 
heap about six pieces of apple on each section of biscuit-dough, 
add a small piece of butter, cinnamon, and a cupful of sugar 
divided equally between the six. Gather the dough up around, 

53 



54 Good Housekeeping's Book op 

pinching together at the top. Place in deep baking-pan; 
pour over them a pint of boiling water in which a cupful of 
sugar, a heaping teaspoonful of butter, and one-fourth tea- 
spoonful of cinnamon have been stirred. Bake about forty- 
five minutes in a hot oven, covering them at the last if they 
get too brown. To be eaten either hot or cold, and preferably 
with cream. alberta, can. 

APPLE GRAHAM CRACKER PUDDING 

10 Graham crackers % teaspoonful cinnamon 

4 medium-sized apples ^/4 teaspoonful nutmeg 

2 cupfuls milk 

Crumble five crackers in the bottom of a greased baking- 
dish. Cover with the apples, sliced fine. Sprinkle wiQi 
spices. Crumble the other crackers over the top and pour 
the milk over all. Bake until puffy, and the apples are done. 

BUFFALO, N. Y. 

APPLE INDIAN PUDDING 

1 cupful corn-meal ^/^ teaspoonful salt 

1 cupful molasses 1 teaspoonful ginger 

1 quart milk 3 apples 

8 cupfuls boiling water V2 cupful cold water 

1 tablespoonful shortening 

Pare and core the apples, then slice them thin. Mix the 
meal with the cold water; then add the boiling water, cook 
five minutes, add the molasses, shortening, salt, ginger, and 
three cupfuls of the milk, stir in the apple, and pour into a 
buttered baking-dish. Bake very slowly four hours, adding 
the rest of the milk after the first hour, stirring slightly. 
If too thick, add more milk. Serve hot or cold with or with- 
out cream. Sweet apples are preferable. Bridgeport, conn. 



APPLE SOUFFLE 

y^ cupful strained and sweetened 3 eggs 

apple sauce Juice ^ lemon 

1 tablespoonful margarin 3 tablespoonfuls sugar 



Recipes axd Household Discoveries 55 

Add the margarin to the apple sauce ; then add the yolks of 
the eggs beaten until thick and lemon-colored, then the sugar 
and the lemon juice. Lastly, fold in the whites of the eggs 
beaten stiff and dry. Fill pasirv--eups with the mixture and 
bake in a moderate oven till drv" and firm. Serve at once. 
Any other fruit may be used in place of the apple sauce. 



BLUEBERRY LOAF 

1 quart blueberries Grated rind ^^ lemon 

A 1-pound loaf stale bread 1 inch stick cinnamon 

About 1 cupful sugar Butter 

Slice bread and butter. Li the meantime stew the blue- 
berries with the lemon and cinnamon, and then add the sugar. 
Break the bread in small pieces and put in a well-greased 
granite bread-tin or earthen bowl. Pour over the boiling 
sauce, which should soak thoroughly into the bread ; let chill, 
turn out, cut in slices, and serve with cream. This is also 
good made without butter. holyoke, mass. 



BUTTER-SCOTCH PUDDING 

1 cupful brown sugar 1 inch-thick slice stale bread 

2 tablespoonfuls butter 2 eggs 

2 cupfuls hot milk ^ teaspoonful salt 

2 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar Juice ^/^ lemon 
1 scant teaspoonful vanilla 

Melt the brown sugar and the butter over the fire and cook 
till a dark brown, but not burned. Then pour over the mix- 
ture the hot milk and simmer for ten minutes. Meantime 
soak the bread in cold water till very soft, press all the wat^r 
from it. and crumble into tiny bits. Pour the milk, sugar, 
and butter mixture over the bread and beat in the yolks of 
the eggs, the salt and vanilla. Pour into a buttered baking- 
dish and bake in a pan of water for fortv-five minutes. Beat 
the whites of the egg stiff and then add the powdered sugar 
and the lemon juice ; beat again. Spread over the pudding 
and brown slightly in a cool oven. Serve warm or cold. 

PHILADELPHIA, PA. 



66 Good Housekeeping's Book op 



CHOCOLATE PUDDING 

1 pint milk 2 tablespoonfuls maple-sirup 

1 square unsweetened chocolate 1 tart apple 

1 cupful fine stale bread-crumbs 2 eggs 

^ cupful sugar 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

Melt chocolate in milk in a double-boiler; pour this over 
the bread-crumbs; add sugar, sirup, apple which has been 
pared, cored, and grated, and beaten egg-yolks. Mix well, 
then fold in the egg-whites beaten stiff and dry, and the 
vanilla. Pour into a buttered pudding dish and bake in a 
slow oven. This may be served with whipped cream or any 
favorite sauce. hilo, hawah. 



COCONUT PUDDING 

2 tablespoonfuls yellow corn- 2 tablespoonfuls granulated 

meal tapioca 

2 tablespoonfuls coconut 2 tablespoonfuls honey 

1 quart milk 

Mix all ingredients together, put into an oiled baking-dish, 
and bake in a slow oven four hours, stirring occasionally 
during the first half of the baking. Albany, n. y. 



COFFEE CREAM 

1 cupful coflfee infusion 4 small sponge cup-cakes 

y^ pint whipped sweetened Whole almonds and maraschino 

cream cherries 

1 pint boiled custard 

Slice the cakes, and place in a glass dish. Pour over them 
the coffee sweetened to taste, let stand fifteen minutes, pour 
over the custard, which should be flavored with vanilla, and 
let stand until serving time. Garnish with the whipped 
oream, almonds, and cherries. Stale, plain, sponge or angel 
oake may be used in this way. Vancouver, b. a 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 57 



COFFEE RICE PUDDING 

^ cupful rice iy2 cupf uls milk 

3 tablespoonfuls coffee 1 egg 

1 teaspoonful flour V^ cupful sugar 

Cook rice in boiling salted water until tender. Use only 
enough water so that the rice will absorb it all in cooking. 
Scald milk with coffee in a double boiler while rice is cooking. 
Strain coffee from milk. Add rice to milk and return to 
double boiler. Beat e^, add the sugar mixed with the flour 
and pour slowly into the rioe mixture. Cook until the con- 
sistency of custard. Serve very cold, with or without cream. 

WASHINGTON, PA. 



C^EAM RICE 

1 quart milk ^ teaspoonful salt 

2 tablespoonfuls rice 4 tablespoonfuls sugar 

1 tablespoocful margarin 

Combine the milk, rioe, salt, sugar and margarin. Put all 
the ingredients into a buttered pudding-dish; mix and cook 
in a slow oven for two or three hours. Stir often, mixing into 
the pudding the delicious golden "skin" that forms. Do 
not stir during the last half hour. A lack of flavoring may 
be noticed in this recipe, but this is not accidental. The rich, 
delicate flavor resulting from the long cooking of the simple 
ingredients is novel and most delicious. The same pudding 
may be cooked in a double-boiler, stirring often the first part 
of the time. Cook until very soft and of the consistency and 
color of thick cream ; cool and pour into a glass dish. Serve 
with thin bits of any bright jelly over the top, if desired. 

CONCORD, MASS. 



DATE CRUMBLES 

2 eggs, well beaten 1 tablespoonful flour 

1 cupful sugar 1 cupful chopped walnuts 

2 teaspoonfuls baking-powder 1 cupful dates, cut small 



58 Good Housekeeping's Book op 

Mix all together and spread on two greased pie tins. Bake 
in a slow oven three-quarters of an hour. Crumble and serve 
in tall glasses topped with whipped cream, or mix witn 
■whipped cream and serve. san diego, cal. 



DATE PUDDING 
1 box dates 1 cupful milk 

Stone a box of dates and lay, cut side down, in a small 
pudding-dish. Cover with the milk and let stand at least 
one hour. Then bake in a slow oven (it is wise to set the 
pudding in a pan of hot water as for custard), for one-half 
to three-quarters of an hour. This is good hot or cold. 

HIBAM, O. 

DATE SPONGE 

1 cupful stoned and chopped l^/^ cupfuls milk 

dates 1 tablespoonful butter 

}i cupful flour 3 eggs 

J^ cupful sugar 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

Scald the milk; mix together flour and sugar and add the 
milk gradually, stirring until smooth and thick. Cook over 
hot water for ten minutes, beat in the butter, and cool. Add 
the egg-yolks well beaten, the dates, and flavoring, and fold 
in the whites whipped stiff. Turn into a buttered pudding- 
dish, set in a pan of hot water, and bake for half an hour. 
Serve cold with hot lemon sauce. concoed, n. h. 

DELICIOUS RICE PUDDING 

% cupful rice 2 tablespoonfuls granulated gel- 

1 cupful water atin 

^ teaspoonful salt % cupful sugar 

1 pint hot milk 1 pint heavy cream 

Cook the rice in the water tiU swollen, add the hot milk 
and salt, and cook for an hour in a double boiler or fireless 
cooker. Then add the sugar and the gelatin, which should be 
softened in water to cover, and set aside to cool. Fold in the 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 59 

cream, which should he beaten stiff, and pour into a mold to 
become firm. This can be flavored or not as desired, but can 
be modified in several different ways: 1. Serve plain with a 
sauce made of a cupful of maple-sirup and a half-cupful of 
chopped nuts. 2. Before putting in mold add a cupful of 
shredded, cooked pineapple or halved maraschino cherries, 
and serve with plain, sweetened, whipped cream. 3. Add to 
the plain pudding- a cupful of freshly grated coconut, or a 
half -cupful of preserved ginger, and serve with cream. The 
pudding should be made several hours before it is served or 
it will not mold well. Minneapolis, minn. 

EGGLESS INDIAN PUDDING 

1 cupful coru-meal i/^ teaspoonful ginger 

i^ cupful molasses % teaspoonful cinnamon 

1 quart hot milk i/^ teaspoonful salt 

Put all the ingredients but milk in a saucepan, set on the 
stove and add one pint of scalding hot milk. Stir until thor- 
oughly scalded and bubbling, then add the other pint of milk ; 
stir well, pour into a buttered dish, and bake two or more 
hours in a moderate oven, ;^tir once in a while at first. Serve 
with cream or a little butter. Two juicy apples peeled and 
chopped, added the last hour, make a very nice addition for 
variety. concord, mass. 

EGYPTIAN CARAMEL CUSTARD 

^ cupful sugar, caramelized Few grains salt 

3 eggs Few grains nutmeg 

2 cupfuls scalded milk 1/2 teaspoonful vanilla 

y^ cupful sugar 

Caramelize (melt) the half -cupful of sugar over a moderate 
heat and pour at once into a tin or aluminum mold, tipping 
it until the sirup is hardened on the bottom and half-way 
up the sides. Then beat the eggs, add the sugar, salt, and 
flavorings, and pour the scalded milk into it. Turn into the 
lined mold, set this into a pan of hot water, and bake in a 
slow oven. Chill and unmold. The sirup will have colored 
the lower part of the custard, the remainder having melted 
to form a sauce. Lansing, mich. 



60 Good Housekeeping's Book of 

EVERYDAY LEMON RICE PUDDING 

% cupful rice 2 eggs 

1 cupful hot water V^ lemon 

^ teaspoonful salt 1 tablespoonful powdered sugar 

2 cupfuls milk ^4 cupful granulated sugar 

Add salt to the water and cook rice in it till the water is 
absorbed. Add the milk and cook in a double-boiler till 
the rice is done. Beat together the egg-yolks, sugar, and 
grated lemon rind, stir into the rice and cook two minutes. 
Pour into a buttered fire-proof dish, pile on a meringue made 
of the egg-whites, powdered sugar, and lemon juice, and cook 
gently for ten minutes in a slow oven. montclair, n. j. 

FRESH STRAWBERRY BAVARIAN CREAM 

2 tablespoonf uls granulated gel- Vz cupful sugar 

atin 1 pint heavy cream 

Yz cupful water l^ box stemmed strawberrieB 

Soak gelatin ten minutes in water to cover; put sugar in 
saucepan with the half -cupful of water, add berries, and heat 
to boiling point, but do not mash; turn in the gelatin and 
when consistent like an egg-white add the cream, whipped stiff, 
folding it in carefully. Let stand to become stiff and serve 
with additional strawberries, stewed. new york, n. t, 

GINGERBREAD GEMS WITH APPLES 

2 tablespoonfuls brown sugar 1 cupful whole wheat flour 

1 egg % cupful molasses 
V2 teaspoonful baking-soda ^4 teaspoonful ginger 
^ cupful shortening Yz teaspoonful cinnamon 

2 apples ^ teaspoonful mace 
2 tablespoonfuls milk % teaspoonful salt 

1 cupful bread flour ^ cupful raisins or currants 

Mix and sift together all the dry ingredients, add the mo- 
lasses and shortening melted. Then add the egg well beaten 
and the milk. Into greased muffin pans place apples cut 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 61 

into eighths. Pour the mixture over the apple and bake in 
a moderate oven about twenty-five minutes. This recipe will 
make six large gems and makes a delicious dessert served hot 
with cream. Philadelphia, pa. 

GOLDEN PUDDING 

4 eupfuls milk % cupful molasses 

4 tablespoonfuls yellow corn- 1 teaspoonful salt 

meal 1 teaspoonful margarin 

1 cupful sifted squash 1 teaspoonful mixed spices 

y^ cupful seedless raisins 

Scald two eupfuls of the milk and thicken it with the com- 
meal. Add the remaining milk, squash, molasses, salt, mar- 
garin, spices and raisins. Pour into a buttered baking dish 
and bake three hours in a slow oven or a fireless cooker with 
two radiators heated to 350° F. redding, conn. 

GOOSEBBBRY CREAM 

1 pint gooseberries 3 egg-yolks 

1 cupful granulated sugar J^ cupful sugar 

y-^ cupful water ^ teaspoonful orange extract 

1 pint milk Whipped cream 

Stew the gooseberries and the cupful of sugar and water 
together till mushy, then sift. Make a boiled-custard of the 
milk, egg-yolks, remaining sugar, and flavoring, stir in the 
sifted gooseberries, chill, and serve very cold in a deep glass 
dish with the whipped cream piled on top. new york, n. y. 



INDIAN PUDDING 

% cupful granulated com- y^ teaspoonful cinnamon 

meal 1 cupful molasses 

1 teaspoonful salt 1 quart scalded milk 

V^ teaspoonful ginger 1 quart cold milk 

2 teaspoonfuls butter 

Butter a large baking-dish well. Sift into it the first four 
ingredients. Pour the scalded milk on the ingredients in 
the dish slowly, stirring constantly. Then pour into this 



62 Good Housekeeping's Book op 

mixture the molasses and stir well. Then pour in the cold 
milk and stir again. Break the butter into small pieces and 
dot over the top. Bake in a slow oven five or six hours, 
stirring frequently during the first hour of baking. 

NORTH EASTON, MASS. 

JAM DUIVIPLINGS 

2 cupfuls pastry flour About % cupful milk 

8 teaspoonfuls baking-powder 2 cupfuls jam 

1 teaspoonful salt 3 cupfuls water 

Sift together flour, baking-powder and salt. Add milk to 
make a rather stiff dough, mixing it with a knife. In the mean- 
time, make a sirup of the jam — using raspberry, strawberry, 
or any preferred flavor — and the water. When the sirup 
has come to a boil, drop the dough mixture by tablespoonfuls 
on top of the sirup. Cover immediately and steam the dump- 
lings for twelve minutes. Remove them at once and arrange 
in a deep serving-dish. Pour the remainder of the sirup 
around them and serve hot. new york, n. y. 

LEMON MERINGUE PUDDING 

1 cupful sugar 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

1 quart milk 31/^ milk crackers 

i3 eggs Grated rind 1 lemon 

Beat eggs and sugar together till light, add the crackers 
rolled fine and the other ingredients. Pour into a baking- 
dish, and cook about thirty minutes, taking care that it does 
not actually boil or it will be watery. Spread the top with 
lemon butter and finish with a meringue made of two egg- 
whites, six tablespoonfuls of granulated sugar, and a fourth- 
teaspoonful of lemon extract. Georgetown, del. 



MACAROON CUSTARD 

1 pint milk 1 cupful stale almond macaroons 

4 eggs 2 tablespoonfuls peach jam or 

^ cupful sugar jelly 

y^ teaspoonful salt 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 63 

Scald the milk in a double-boiler. Beat the yolks of the 
eggs slightly with the sugar and salt. Over the egg yolks 
pour gradually the hot milk. Return to the double-boiler and 
cook until thickened, stirring constantly. Remove and stir 
in the macaroons, crumbled, and the jelly or jam. Beat hard 
and cool thoroughly on ice. Serve in glasses topped with 
whipped cream. Philadelphia, pa. 



MAPLE-SIRUP DUMPLINGS 

1 cupful water 4 teaspoonfuls baking-powder 

1 pint maple-sirup i^ teaspoonful salt 

1 pint bread flour About 1 cupful milk 

Put water and sirup on to boil. Make dumplings by sifting 
together the flour, baking-powder, and salt. Add milk to 
make a dough soft enough to drop. Drop by teaspoonfuls 
into the boiling sirup. Cover and boil fifteen minutes. When 
done the sirup should be poured over the dumplings as a 

sauce. ELLENSBURG, WASH. 



MARSHMALLOW CARAMEL PUDDING 

1 thick slice bread 2 eggs 

Vz cupful sugar 1 tablespoonful butter 

1 pint scalded rrilk 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

Halved marshmallows 

The bread should be at least twenty-four hours old and 
should be cut three and a half inches long, two and a half 
inches wide, and an inch thick. Soak it in water to cover 
till very soft. In the meantime melt two tablespoonfuls of 
the sugar until caramelized, add the milk and butter, and cook 
gently till the caramel dissolves. Press the water from the 
bread and squeeze as dry as possible, add it to the milk and 
beat well. Stir in the eggs, well beaten ; the rest of the sugar ; 
and the vanilla. Pour into a buttered baking-dish and bake 
in a very slow oven for three-quarters of an hour. When 
done cover the top with halved marshmallows and brown 
slightly under a quick heat. Serve hot with cream or coffee^ 
flavored hard sauce, or cold with cream. Philadelphia, pa. 



64 Good Housekeeping's Book op 



ORANGE SOUFFLE BREAD PUDDING 

1 generous cupful stale bread 2 egg-yolks 

broken into bits Juice 2 oranges 

iy2 cupfuls milk Grated rind 1 orange 

% cupful sugar Vs teaspoonful salt 

Heat one cupful of milk and soak the bread in it until all 
is absorbed. Beat lightly with a fork, add the orange juice 
and rind, the sugar, salt, and egg-yolks beaten until thick. 
Have the remaining half-cupful of milk boiling hot, stir into 
the mixture, and fold in the egg-whites beaten stiff. Pour 
into well-buttered indiAadual cups or ramekins. Stand in a 
pan of hot water and bake in a moderate oven until firm. 
Serve at once, as the mixture falls when cold. 

WEST HAVEN, (X)NN. 



PERSIAN RICE 

1 cupful rice 2 tablespoonfuls minced, pre- 

11/2 cupfuls small seedless served ginger 

raisins % cupful broken pecan or wal- 

y2 cupful butter nut meats 

Wash rice, and boil in salted water till nearly done. Cook 
the raisins, nuts, and ginger in the butter until the raisins 
puff up. Boil rice till water is evaporated, add the raisin 
mixture, stir thoroughly, pour into a fire-proof dish, cover, 
and let steam in the oven one-half hour. Serve with fried 
chicken and gravy, if desired. Berkeley, cal. 



PINEAPPLE RICE 

1 quart milk Vi cupful marshmallow cream 

1 cupful rice 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

% teaspoonful salt % cupful almonds or walnuts, 

2 cupfuls diced canned pine- chopped fine 
apple Whipped cream 

Scald the milk in a double-boiler. Add the rice which has 
been carefully washed, and cook until the kernels are soft. 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 65 

Add the salt and the marshmallow cream. Remove from the 
fire, cool, and add the vanilla, nuts chopped fine and one cup- 
ful of the diced pineapple. Pour into small, wet molds and 
chill until firm. Place the molds of rice on individual plates 
and serve with the remaining cupful of the diced pineapple 
and a small amount of whipped cream on top. 

SEATTLE, WASH. 



PINEAPPLE TAPIOCA 

1 cupful pearl tapioca Juice 1 lemon 

% cupful cold water 1^/^ cupfuls sugar 

1 can pineapple 3 egg-whites 

Soak the tapioca overnight in plenty of water. Drain and 
add cold water, the juice from the can of pineapple and 
from the lemon. Then cook in a double boiler till clear. 
Add the sugar to this, then the pineapple, chopped fine, and 
lastly, pour over the egg-whites, beaten stiff. Chill and serve 
with cream or custard. This can be made from fresh pine- 
apple, if stewed and not too sweet. It will serve twelve people 
and will keep two or three days. davenport, ia. 

RICE CHARLOTTE RUSSE 

^ cupful rice 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

1 cupful milk 2 egg-yolks 

^ teaspoonful salt 1 tablespoonful granulated gel- 

14 cupful sugar atin 

1 pint cream 1 tablespoonful cold water 

Vi cupful hot water or milk 

Scald the milk in a double boiler, add the rice and salt, and 
cook until the rice is soft. Remove from the fire; when cool 
add the vanilla, sugar, egg-yolks well beaten, and the gelatin 
which has been previously soaked in the cold water and dis- 
solved in the hot water or milk. Mix all of this together 
very thoroughly, and then add the cream whipped. Put in 
a wet mold and let stand on ice at least three hours before 
serving. Serve with a sauce made by cooking one cupful of 
preserved or canned strawberries with one-half cupful water 
until the consistency of sirup. Add one tablespoonful lemon 



66 Good Housekeeping's Book op 

juice, strain, and pour over the russe when serving. This 
may also be served with crushed fresh strawberries. 

SEWICKLEY, PA. 

RICE MACAROON PUDDING 

y^ cupful rice 1 egg 

% cupful sugar 1 dozen almond macaroons 

1/4 teaspoonful salt 3 tablespoonfuls margarin 

1 quart milk 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

Cook the rice in water until tender. Drain and pour cold 
water through it ; then put in the oven to dry. Put the milk 
on in a double boiler, heat, add salt, sugar, and rice, and 
cook until somewhat thickened. Then put in a greased bak- 
ing-dish with the margarin and vanilla. Bake one-half hour, 
then put the macaroons on top, beat the egg, and pour over 
all. Bake one hour longer, slowly. If the macaroons are 
very small, more than one dozen may be required. Use enough 
to cover the top of the pudding-dish. pasadena, cal. 

RICE SURPRISE 

1 cupful hot cooked rice % teaspoonful salt 

1 tablespoonful gelatin 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar 1 cupful cream whipped 

Soak the gelatin in three tablespoonfuls of water for five 
minutes, then mix with the rice. Add the sugar, salt, and 
vanilla, and beat well. Set aside until it begins to congeal. 
Beat the cream stiff and fold it in. Pour into a mold and let 
it harden. When serving turn it on a platter, and pour 
orange marmalade sauce over it. For a very sweet dessert 
add two extra tablespoonfuls of sugar. denveb, colo. 

ROLLED APPLE DUMPLINGS 

11/2 cupfuls bread flour 1 cupful brown sugar 

2 teaspoonfuls baking-powder Vi teaspoonful cinnamon 

1/2 teaspoonful salt V2 teaspoonful nutmeg 

2 cupfuls chopped apple 2 tablespoonfuls lard 

y^ cupful cold water 2 tablespoonfuls butter 



Eecipes and Household Discoveries 67 

Mix and sift flour, baking-powder, and salt. Work into 
this the lard and butter, using the tips of the fingers. Add 
water, then turn out on a floured board, handling as little 
as possible. Roll out about one-half inch thick, sprinkle 
apples, brown sugar, and spices on top. Roll up like a jelly 
roll. Cut off in pieces about two inches wide and stand on 
end in a pudding-dish. Pour part of the following sauce 
over them : 

1 cupful granulated sugar 1 cupful water 

2 tablespoonfuls flour 1 teaspoonful vanilla 
%, teaspoonful salt 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

Mix sugar and flour, add water; cook till blended. Add 
butter and salt. When butter is melted, remove from fire 
and add vanilla. Bake in hot oven about twenty minutes. 
This recipe makes nine dumplings. Add to the sauce any 
chopped apple not possible to roll in the dumpling. Reserve 
the rest of the sauce to pour around the dumplings when 
they are taken from the oven. northfield, minn. 



RUSSIAN PUDDING 

2 tablespoonfuls granulated gel- 4 eggs 

atin 1 cupful sugar 

1 quart milk 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

1 dozen dry macaroons 

Put gelatin and milk together in a double-boiler and let 
stand over a slow heat until the gelatin is dissolved. Beat 
the egg-yolks and sugar together, combine with the milk, and 
let cook until a coating is formed on the spoon. Stir this 
mixture into the egg-whites beaten stiff and add the vanilla. 
Line a mold with the macaroons broken in bits and when the 
pudding mixture is slightly cooled pour it into the mold. 
Chill for a few hours until stiff. Unmoid and serve with 
whipped cream. atchison, kans. 



SHREDDED DATES 

Dates Candied ginger 

Milk Whipped cream 



68 Good Housekeeping's Book of 

Fill individual glass dishes with dates that have been stoned 
and shredded, mixing in a few bits of candied ginger. Pour 
into the dishes enough sweet milk almost to cover the dates, 
and set in the ice-chest to chill for an hour or two. Before 
serving, put a little freshly whipped cream on top of each 
dish. This is an excellent nursery dessert. bk\ufobt, s. C. 

A SIMPLE CHRISTMAS PUDDING 

1 cupful grated raw potatoes 1 teaspoonful soda 

1 cupful grated raw carrots 1 tablespoonful water 

1 cupful chopped suet 1 teaspoonful salt 

1 cupful brown sugar 1 teaspoonful cinnamon 

1 pound chopped raisins 1 teaspoonful nutmeg 
1% cupfuls pastry flour 1 teaspoonful allspice 

Mix thoroughly in order given, put in a well-oiled pudding- 
mold, cover, and steam five hours. Serve hot with hard fruit 

sauce. DETROIT, MICH. 

SPANISH COFFEE CREAM 

2 tablespoonfuls granulated gel- V^ teaspoonful salt 
atin 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

3 cupfuls coffee infusion 1 cupful cream or evaporated 
3 eggs milk 

14 cupful sugar 

Heat coffee to boiling point. Pour it over sugar, egg-yolks, 
and salt well beaten together ; boil about five minutes, stirring 
constantly. Add gelatin softened in cream or milk and let 
boil up once. Fold in stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Pour into 
mold. Serve cold with cream. Baltimore, md. 

STRAWBERRY RICE 

2 cupfuls crushed strawberries V2 teaspoonful salt 
34 cupful rice 1 cupful powdered sugar 

Juice y2 lemon 4 tablespoonfuls butter 

1 egg-white, beaten stiff 

Boil the rice, after washing thoroughly, seasoned with the 
Bait and lemon, in two quarts of water. Drain in a colander, 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 69 

and set in the oven a few minutes to dry out. In the mean- 
time cream together the sugar and butter until fluffy, beat 
in the strawberries, and then add the egg-white. Whip hard, 
and serve on the hot rice. new york, n. t, 

SURPRISE PUDDING 

1 pint cream 2 tablespoonfuls granulated gel- 

y2 cupful cooked rice atin 

1 cupful chopped walnuts or V2 cupful chopped figs 

hickory nuts % cupful chopped preserved 

1 teaspoonful vanilla candied ginger 

Whip the cream and add to it the rice, gelatin which has 
been soaked in one-fourth cupful of water for five minutes, 
and the vanilla. Fold in carefully and then add the nuts, 
figs, and ginger. Pour into a cold, wet mold, chill, and serve 
very cold. corning, n. y. 

SWEET APPLE SLUMP 

6 sweet apples 2 cupfuls bread flour 

2 tart apples 2 tablespoonfuls shortening 

3 cupfuls water 6 teaspoonfuls baking-powder 
^ cupful molasses 1 teaspoonful salt 

y^ cupful raisins About % cupful milk 

1 tablespoonful molasses 

Pare, core, and quarter the apples. Boil fifteen minutes 
with the water. Add the molasses and raisins and lay over 
them a thick round of biscuit dough gashed in the center. 
To make the biscuit dough sift the flour, baking-powder, and 
salt together, cut in the shortening until well blended and 
mix to a soft dough, adding the milk gradually and mixing 
with a knife. Toss on a well floured board and pat to desired 
shape. Brush this over with the one tablespoonful of 
molasses, cover tightly, and steam for forty-five minutes. Re- 
move the cover and set in a hot oven for fifteen minutes to 
brown. redding, conn. 

TAFFY PUDDING 

1 cupful wh'ole pearl tapioca 2 cupfuls light brown sugar 

1 teaspoonful vanilla 



70 Good Housekeeping's Book of 

Soak tapioca overnight well covered with water. In the 
morning drain, and add sugar and vanilla. Cook in oven, 
using double cooker; keep covered. Cook for three to four 
hours until tapioca is clear and pudding is like taffy. Serve 
cold with whipped cream. spbingfield, o. 



THANKSGIVING GELATIN PUDDING 

1 cupful dried figs 1^^ cupfuls chopped dates 

4 tablespoonfuls granulated gel- 1^2 cupfuls chopped seedless 

atin raisins 

1 cupful cold water 1^^ cupfuls chopped walnuts 

1 cupful com sirup i/2 teaspoonful ground mixed 

3 cupfuls hot coffee infusion spices 

^ cupful lemon juice 

Wipe the dried figs and cut into small pieces, add 
cold water to cover and bring slowly to the boiling point, and 
cook slowly for one-half hour. Then strain. There should 
be one cupful of juice. Soak the gelatin in the cold water 
for twenty minutes. Heat the corn-sirup to the boiling point 
with the ground mixed spices. Add this to the gelatin to- 
gether with the boiled coffee and the fig juice. Stir thoroughly 
and add the lemon juice and the cooked figs. Wet a mold in 
cold water and pour in a layer of the jelly one inch deep. 
Allow this to set and then add a layer of the chopped dates, 
raisins and walnuts, using about one-half cupful of each. Pour 
a layer of jelly over this and allow it to stand until firm. 
Repeat this until the mold is filled. When set, serve wif.i 
custard sauce made in the following manner: 

1 egg 1 tablespoonful corn-starch 

^2 cupful corn sirup 2 cupfuls milk 

V4, teaspoonful vanilla 

Beat the egg slightly and add the corn-sirup and the corn- 
starch. Heat the milk in a double boiler and add the first 
mixture gradually. Allow to cook until all starchy flavor 
IS removed. Flavor with the vanilla when cold. For the 
mixed spices in the pudding use cinnamon, nutmeg, mace, 
clove and ginger. new york, n. Y. 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 71 



UXBRIDGE APPLE TAPIOCA 

% cupful pearl tapioca % cupful water 

1/2 teaspoonful salt 6 tablespoonfuls sugar or 

6 apples 6 tablespoonfuls apple jelly- 

Soak the tapioca in cold water to cover for one hour. Add 
the salt. Pare and core the apples and set closely in a but- 
tered pudding-dish. Fill the holes with the sugar or apple 
jelly, allowing one tablespoonful to each apple. Pour the 
tapioca around the apples, distributing it evenly, and add the 
water. Bake in a hot oven until the apples are soft and 
the tapioca is clear; cover until nearly done. Peaches, un- 
cooked or canned, may be used for the apples, and sago for 
the tapioca. concord, mass. 



WHIPPED-CREAM MERINGUES 

4 egg-whites 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

1% cupfuls powdered sugar Few grains salt 

% cupful any nut meats, ground Sweetened and flavored whipped 

fine cream 

Beat egg-whites very stiff and gradually add the sugar, 
whipping constantly. Sprinkle in the salt, and, lastly, turn 
in the ground nuts. Cover a baking-sheet with buttered 
paper and shape the mixture with a spoon so that the 
meringues will be as large as goose eggs. Bake in a very 
slow oven for at least three-quarters of an hour, until they 
are light brown and nearly dry. Remove from the paper, 
scoop out the soft inside, and put the two halves together 
with the whipped cream. This amount will serve twelve^ 

NEW CANAAN, CONN. 



Eggs 



ASPARAGUS OMELET, ITALIAN 

1 cupful cooked asparagus-tips 1 tablespoonful water 
4 eggs Few grains pepper 

% teaspoonful salt 2 tablespoonfuls grated cheese 

1 tablespoonful butter 

Beat the eggs slightly; add the salt, pepper, cheese, and 
asparagus. Put butter in hot omelet pan ; when melted, turn 
in the mixture. As it slowly cooks, prick and pick up with a 
fork until the whole is of creamy consistency. Brown quickly 
underneath ; fold and turn on a hot platter, new york, n. y. 

BACON AND EGGS, NEW STYLE 

8 slices bacon, diced %, cupful milk 

6 small slices drj^ bread, diced % teaspoonful pepper 

4 eggs A little salt 

Fry the bacon until brown; add the bread, and toss witli 
the bacon and fat until well seasoned and slightly browned, 
then add the eggs beaten with the seasoning and milk, and 
scramble as usual. This is a very good way to use up dry 
bread. new york, n. y. 

BACON AND POTATO OMELET 

1 cupful cold potatoes, chopped 4 egg's 

fine 5^ teaspoonful salt 

14 cupful bacon, diced Vs teaspoonful pepper 

Brown potatoes and bacon together in a frying-pan. Sep- 
arate eggs, beat yolks till creamy and whites till light, add 

72 



Recipes ai^d Household Discoveries 73 

seasonings, combine, stir into the potato mixture, and cook 
gently like any omelet. Washington, d. c. 

BAKED CRACKER OMELET 

4 eggs 3 tablespoonfuls cracker-crumbs 

% cupful milk % teaspoonful salt 

1 tablespoonful melted butter Ys teaspoonful pepper 

Separate eggs ; beat whites stiff and yolks till lemon-colored. 
Add the milk and melted butter to the yolks, fold in the whites 
together with the seasonings and the cracker-crumbs, which 
should not be too fine. Pour into a hot buttered fire-proof 
dish and bake about fifteen minutes in a moderate oven. 

OMAHA, NEBR, 

BROWN-BREAD OMELET 

2 slices brown bread 8 eggs 

2 tablespoonfuls flour 2 teaspoonfuls salt 

3 cupfuls milk % teaspoonful pepper 

2 tablespoonfuls butter 

Cut the bread in small pieces and fry in butter. Rub the 
flour smooth in a little of the milk. Add the egg-yolks beaten, 
the remainder of the milk, the fried bread, and lastly the 
egg-whites beaten stiff, together with the seasonings. Pour 
into the smoking-hot pan in which the bread has been fried 
and bake in a hot oven until set. It will take from twenty 
minutes to half an hour. olympia, wash. 

CABBAGE OMELET 

2 cupfuls chopped cold boiled 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

cabbage V^ cupful cream 

2 well-beaten eggs Salt and pepper to taste 

Heat the cabbage in one tablespoonful of butter and the 
cream-; add seasonings and the eggs well beaten. Pour into 
a warm omelet-pan containing the other tablespoonful of 
melted butter, and cook till delicately browned on the under 
side. Set in the oven long enough to cook the top, fold, and 
turn on a hot platter. cody, wyo. 



74 Good Housekeeping's Book op 



CHEESE OMELET 

4 tablespoonfuls grated cheese Yz teaspoonful salt 
2 egg:s Vs teaspoonful pepper 

2 tablespoonfuls granulated tap- % teaspoonful di-y mustard 
ioea 1 cupful hot milk 

iy2 tablespoonfuls cooking oil 

Cook together for about ten minutes the tapioca, salt, pep- 
per, mustard, dieese, and hot milk. Add one-half tablespoon- 
ful of the oil and the yolks of the eggs beaten very light. Stir 
well, remove from the fire, and fold in the whites of the eggs 
beaten stiff and dry. Put the rest of the oil into a frying or 
omelet pan, and when it is hot, pour in the mixture. Cook 
slowly until brown, then place in a slow oven until the top 
is dry, fold, and turn out on a hot platter. Garnish with 
parsley and serve at once. This is enough to serve three. 

NEW BRIGHTON, N. Y. 

CONCORDIA EGGS 

6 eggs 1 cupful grated cheese 

4 cupfuls cold cooked hominy 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

Salt and pepper 

Butter a shallow baking-dish and fill with the hominy, which 
should not be too stiff; with the bottom of a cup, make as 
many depressions in the homin}^ as there are eggs to be used. 
Sprinkle over half the cheese and set in a hot oven till it is 
melted and beginning to brown. Remove from oven and 
drop an egg in each depression. Dot over the butter, sprinkle 
on the rest of the cheese, and dredge lightly with a little salt 
and pepper. Place in oven again till eggs are set, about ten 
minutes. concord, mass. 

CREOLE EGGS 

1 tablespoonful butter Solid portion Yz can tomatoes, 

2 tablespoonfuls chopped onion or two large tomatoes, peeled 
2 tablespoonfuls chopped green and halved 

peppers Bread-crumbs 

y2 teaspoonful salt One or two eggs per individual 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 75 

Melt the butter, add onion, pepper, and the tomatoes, cover 
and cook fifteen minutes over a very slow heat, then season 
with salt. Butter the shirring-dishes, dust them lightly with 
crumbs, break in one or two eggs, stand in a shallow pan of 
water, and cook in the oven until the white is set but soft. 
Garnish each dish with a tablespoonful of the tomato mixture 
and serve in the dishes. mount gretna, pa. 



DANDY STUFFED EGGS 

1/2 dozen hard-cooked eggs jl slice salt pork or bacon 

1 pound dandelion greens 1 teaspoonful salt 

1 small onion 2 tablespoonfuls vinegar 

Cut the eggs in halves and remove the yolks. Cook the 
greens until tender and divide in two portions. To one por- 
tion, chopped, add the salt pork fried crisp and chopped, the 
onion minced and cooked in the salt pork drippings, the salt, 
the vinegar, and the egg-yolks mashed. Pile the egg-whites 
with the mixture. Place in the oven to reheat, and serve on 
a bed of greens, using for this purpose the other portion of 
cooked greens seasoned to taste. Spinach, beet greens, or 
chard may be used in place of the dandelion. 

MILWAUKEE, WIS. 



A HEARTY OMELET 

1 pint milk 3 eggs 

^ cupful corn-meal 1 teaspoonful salt 

6 slices bacon 

Scald milk in double-boiler. Pour onto corn-meal and put 
back on fire. Cook fifteen to twenty minutes, stirring fre- 
quently at first. Beat eggs separately; pour meal mixture 
into the beaten yolks, add salt, and fold in stiffly beaten 
whites. Have a large frying-pan in which bacon has been 
cooked ; remove bacon and pour off most of the fat ; pour 
omelet mixture into it. Bake about one-half hour in a rather 
moderate oven. Serve on platter garnished with bacon. 
Use either white or yellow corn-meal. apponaug b. i. 



76 Good Housekeeping's Book op 



MOCK TURTLE EGGS 

2 tablespoonfuls butter 1 tablespoonful hot water 

1 cupful bread-crumbs Salt 

1 cupful condensed mock turtle Paprika 

soup 3 eggs 

Melt one tablespoonful of butter in a shallow casserole, 
cover with one-half cupful of dried bread-crumbs, and add the 
condensed mock turtle soup mixed with the hot water. Break 
in the eggs carefully, sprinkle sparingly with salt and paprika, 
add the other half-cupful of bread-crumbs, and dot with the 
remaining tablespoonful of butter. Brown in a quick oven. 
This recipe is intended to serve three. new york, n. y. 



OMELET ESPAGNOLE 

5 eggs 1 teaspoonful salt 

5 tablespoonfuls water % teaspoonful pepper 

2 tablespoonfuls butter 1 Spanish onion, chopped 

Melt the butter in the omelet-pan and fry the onion in 
it very slowly until soft and golden-brown. Add salt to the 
egg-whites and beat them stiff. Beat the yolks until thick 
and add the pepper and water. Fold carefully together, 
adding a tablespoonful of the cooked onion; the remainder 
should be set aside in a warm place. Pour the egg-mixture 
into the omelet-pan, cover, and cook very slowly till firm 
throughout and golden-brown on the bottom. Spread the 
remaining onion over the cooked omelet, fold over, turn onto 
a hot platter, and garnish with parsley. ithaca, n. y. 



POACHED EGGS WITH RAREBIT SAUCE 

6 6^:$ 6 rounds buttered toast 

Welsh rarebit sauce 

Poach eggs until they are set, in plenty of salted water, 
and be sure that they are well covered. Remove each to a 
round of buttered toast which has been placed in an indi- 
vidual shirred egg dish. Pour over them a Welsh rarebit 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 77 

sauce made with milk in the double-boiler, and brown quickly 
in a hot oven or under the broiler flame. Serve at once. 

NEW YORK, N. Y. 

SHIRRED EGGS IN GIBLET SAUCE 

3 eupfuls boilins: water 2 tablespoonfuls flour 

3 sets chicken giblets i/^ teaspoonful kitchen bouquet 

V^ teaspoonful grated onion % teaspoonful Worcestershire 

V2 teaspoonful salt sauce 

Dash pepper 2 tablespoonfuls minced parsley 

2 tablespoonfuls butter 6 eggs 

Clean giblets thoroughly and discard any green portions 
adhering to the liver. Fry until brown in the butter, add 
onion, salt, and pepper, and three eupfuls of boiling water 
and cook slowly for an hour and a half, until giblets are 
tender. There should then be two eupfuls of broth. Chop 
^blets fine, mix flour with a little cold water, and thicken 
broth ; add giblets and the rest of the seasonings and dispose in 
six ramekins or shirred-egg dishes. Slip an egg, carefully 
broken, into each, dust with salt, pepper, and minced parsley, 
place a bit of butter on each, and bake in a moderate oven 
until the eggs are set. 



SPANISH OMELET 

B strips bacon 1 tablespoonful minced green 
3 eggs pepper 

t sliced ripe olives 1 tablespoonful minced pimiento 

t seedless raisins 1 tablespoonful minced parsley 

3 large mushrooms 1 tablespoonful minced onion 

Yz teaspoonful paprika 1 tablespoonful flour 

3 tablespoonfuls milk 1 tablespoonful butter 

Salt 

Fry the bacon, remove, and keep hot. Then in the fat cook 
:he pepper, pimiento, parsley, onion, olives, raisins, mush- 
rooms, and paprika together until tender. "When cooked add 
:he flour and one-fourth teaspoonful of salt. Beat the whites 
)f the eggs stiff and dry. Beat the yolks until lemon-colored 
md add one-half teaspoonful salt and the milk. Fold in the 



78 Good Housekeeping's Book of 

stiffly beaten egg-whites. Pour this egg mixture into a hot 
omelet-pan, in which the butter has been melted. Cook until 
brown on the bottom, then place in a moderate oven for about 
five minutes or until it is dry on top. When cooked spread 
the filling on one-half and turn over tlie other half of the 
omelet to cover. Garnish with the hot strips of bacon. 

STOCKTON, CAL. 

SPANISH SCRAMBLED EGGS 

2 tablespoonfuls butter % cupful rich milk 

1 chopped onion 1 teaspoonful salt 

% chopped green pepper Y^ teaspoonful pepper 

% chopped pimiento 6 eggs 

Cook all except eggs together until tender; then add eggs, 
stir while cooking, and serve on toast. Stockton, cal. 



SPINACH OMELET 

1 cupful cooked spinach ^/^ cupful cream 
iy2 tablespoonfuls flour 1 teaspoonful salt 

2 tablespoonfuls butter Few grains pepper 

4 eggs 

Chop spinach fine, and make a sauce of the butter, flour, 
cream, pepper, and half the salt, allowing it to boil thoroughly. 
Combine this with the spinach, separate the egg-yolks from 
the whites, beat the yolks till lemon-colored, adding the rest 
of the salt and a little pepper. Beat the whites till stiff and 
dry and cut and fold them into the first mixture. Pour the 
egg-mixture into a hot, well-buttered omelet-pan, put the 
spinach over the top, and cook very gently for about twelve 
minutes till the egg is set and the omelet brown. Fold 
as usual. new york, n. y. 



SWEDISH OMELET 

4 eggs % teaspoonful pepper 

1 cupful milk 1 tablespoonful flour 

1 teaspoonful salt 1 tablespoonful butter 

1/2 cupful thinly sliced cheese 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 79 

Blend together tlie flour, milk, and seasonings; beat the 
eg^ very li|ht and combine mixtures. In the meantune melt 
thfbutt-er in a frying-pan and, when very hot, turn m the 
r^fxture Place in the lower part of a very hot oven, and 
Xen itis pXd up and browed on the bottom set ^ on 
the upper grate to finish cooking and brown slightly. \\ hen 
thL'fdonl spread the cheese over the omelet and when t 
melts fold, turn on a hot platter, and serve at once. As this 
S:^t contains flour, it will not Ml as -eh -^one;^^^. 
puffy variety. 



Entrees 



BACON AND CORN, CAMP STYLE 

12 large slices bacon I/2 green pepper 

2 cupfuls corn, canned or boiled 1 small onion 

and cut from the cob Salt 

2 eggs Pepper 

Cook bacon until crisp, pouring off fat occasionally during 
the cooking. Remove the bacon and keep warm. In about 
four tablespoonfuls of the bacon-fat cook the pepper and 
onion, chopped fine, for five minutes. Add the corn, eggs Avell 
beaten, and salt and pepper to taste and scramble all together 
in the hot fat. Heap on a hot platter and garnish with the 
bacon strips. duluth, minn. 



BACON SOUFFLE PUDDING 

% cupful minced bacon 4 eggs 

8 slices stale bread 1 teaspoonful salt 

Spread the cupful of minced bacon evenly over the bottom 
of baking-dish. Soak the stale bread in cold water for five 
minutes and drain. Beat the eggs well, add to the bread 
with salt, mix together; spread this mixture over the bacon. 
Bake in moderate oven for forty minutes. 

ALBUQUERQUE, N. MEX. 

CORN PUDDING 

2 cupfuls fresh or canned com 3 tablespoonfuls fine corn-meal 

1 sweet pepper 2 tablespoonfuls savory fat 

114 cupfuls milk 1 teaspoonful salt 

1 egg Vs teaspoonful pepper 

80 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 81 

Scald the milk, pour it over the meal, cover, and let it stand 
until cool. Add the corn, the pepper cut fine, the beaten 
egg, and seasonings. Bake in a slow oven for an hour or more, 
stirring it at the end of half an hour, then letting it form a 
crisp, brown crust. Dried sweet com soaked and cooked in 
the same water until tender may be used in place of the fresh 
or canned corn, if preferred. redding, conn. 

FRANKFURTERS AND NOODLES IN TOMATO SAUCE 

11/2 pounds frankfurters 1 pound egg noodles 

1 can tomato soup 

Boil the noodles till tender, drain, and add the soup. If 
this is too highly seasoned, dilute with a little boiling water 
and thicken slightly. Skin the frankfurters and steam them 
until thoroughly done, about twenty minutes. Add to the 
noodles and tomato sauce and heat together for five minutes. 

EUREKA, CALi. 



HANGTOWN FRY 

3 small sausages, cut cross-wise 1 cupful oysters, drained 
in rings 2 eggs slightly beaten 

Fry the sausage rings until medium brown. Put in the 
oysters, and when the edges curl, stir in the eggs and cook 
until they are set. Stir as for .-fcrambled eggs. This is an 
excellent chafing-dish recipe. tarpon springs, fla. 



HOMINTT TVITH OLIVES 

1 small onion ^A cupful milk 

3 scant cupfuls cooked samp or ^/4 cupful water from hominy 
1 can hominy % cupful grated cheese 

Vs teaspoonful pepper 1 teaspoonful salt 

1/2 cupful stoned ripe olives 

Fry the onion cut fine in the fat until golden. Add hominy, 
stirring until warm. Now add the milk and water from the 
hominy. Stirring all the time, add the cheese, and as this 



82 Good Housekeeping's Book of 

melts, add the olives chopped. Cook till the cheese is thor- 
oughly melted but not stringy. Season and serve at once. 

HOLLYWOOD, CAL. 



MOCK CHOP SUEY 

2 cupfuls diced cold roast pork CniTy-powder to taste 

or veal Salt and paprika 

1 cupful diced celery 1 can button mushrooms, sliced 

1 large onion, diced 1 cupful gravy or slightly thick- 

4 tablespoonfuls butter ened stock 

Boiled rice 

Fry the celery and onion in the butter till tender, about 
thirty minutes ; then add the gravy and season as needed with 
salt, paprika, and curry-powder. The amount of curry to 
be used depends on its strength. Cook together for a few 
minutes, then add the meat and mushrooms, and serve around 
a mound of hot boiled rice. Fresh mushrooms may be used 
if fried for five minutes before combining. Fried noodles 
may be served with this dish. Detroit, mich. 



ONIONS ON TOAST 

3 bunches young onions Buttered toast 

White or drawn butter sauce 

Prepare the onions as for table use. Boil in salted water 
till tender, arrange on toast like asparagus, and pour over 
the desired sauce. oshkosh, wis. 



PRUNES IN BELGIAN STYLE 

Prunes Dash cayenne pepper 

1 small cream cheese 1 teaspoonful walnuts, chopped 

Cream or milk fine 

1 teaspoonful pecans, chopped 1 teaspoonful lemon juice 
fine 1 teaspoonful melted butter 

Soak a sufficient number of prunes in cold water for several 
hours, then steam, chill and pit them. Stuff them with the 
following mixture : Mash the cream cheese with a little cream 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 83 

or milk, and add the cayenne, the pecans and walnuts, the 
lemon juice, and the melted butter. If possible, the prunes 
should be pitted through the pointed end and not through the 
sides ; they are then filled from the top and placed upright on 
tiny rounds of toasted bread. Let the filling protrude from 
the top of the prunes and sprinkle it with a little paprika. 

PHILADELPHIA, PA. 



SCRAMBLED RICE AND BACON 

3 cupfuls cooked rice 3 eargs, beaten 

12 slices bacon Salt and pepper 

Fry or bake the bacon till crisp ; pour off half the fat, and 
put the bacon aside in a warm place. Mix together the eggs 
and rice, and add salt and pepper as needed. Pour into the 
hot bacon-fat left in the frying-pan, and scramble. Heap in 
a mound on a hot platter, and surround with the bacon. 

providence, r. I. 



Fish 



BAKED CLAMS RHODE ISLAND STYLE 



1 quart large, long clams 
1 small onion, minced 



Cracker-crumbs 
Clam-liquor 
Fat bacon 



Measure clams after removing from shell ; separate the soft 
from the hard portions, put the latter through a food-chopper 
and combine mth the onion, clam-liquor, and cracker-crumbs 
till of the consistency of thick paste. Place the soft part of 
a clam in each half shell, fill with the mixture, place a small 
strip of bacon on top, and bake till light brown in a quick 
oven. If long clams are not available, round clams or 
"quahaugs" may be used. In this case, the whole clam is 

chopped. ANSONIA, CONN. 



BAKED CORN WITH CLAMS 



1 can minced clams 

1 cupful canned com 

1 cupful milk 

1 egg, well beaten 

1 cupful dry bread-crumbs 



2 tablespoonfuls butter 
1 teaspoonful salt 
%, teaspoonful pepper 
Speck onion salt, if desired 
y^ teaspoonful paprika 



Mix ingredients, except butter, together well ; put them in 
a buttered baking-dish, place bits of butter on top, and bake 
one-half hour. Fresh com may be used. pasadena, cal. 



BAKED FISH WITH CHEESE 



1 pound halibut 
4 slices salt pork 



% pound cheese 
Salt and pepper 



84 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 85 

Cut the salt pork in bits and put in an enamelware or 
aluminum baking-pan; lay fish on top, dust with salt and 
pepper, cover with the cheese, which has been put through the 
coarse knife of the food-chopper, and bake about twenty 
minutes in a hot oven. The fish should be cut about a half- 
inch thick. NORWOOD, MASS. 

BAKED FLOUNDER 

A 4-pound flounder 1 cupful soft bread-crumbs 

5 thin slices salt pork Dried parsley 

Salt % cupful melted margarin or 

Pepper savory fat 

Remove the flesh from the flounder in fillets. On the 
bottom of a baking-pan or casserole lay three of the salt 
pork slices; on these lay half of the fish, sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, and spread with the bread-crumbs which have 
been seasoned with one-half teaspoonful of salt, one-fourth 
teaspoonful of pepper, a little dried parsley, and the melted 
margarin. On this lay the rest of the fish, sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, and lay the rest of the pork on top. Bake in a 
moderate oven for twenty minutes. Serve with drawn butter 
or tomato sauce. new york, n. y. 

BOILED SHAD 

1 medium-sized shad Vs teaspoonful pepper 

^ cupful moderately strong % teaspoonful cinnamon 

vinegar 2 egg-yolks 

1 cupful water II/2 teaspoonfuls flour 

% teaspoonful salt 1 onion sliced 

Sugar to taste. 

Stir together the egg-yolks, flour, and seasonings, and add 
vinegar and water. Add just enough sugar to neutralize the 
acid, about one-half tablespoonful. Stir in the onion and 
bring all to a boil. Put in the shad and boil gently till tender, 
about twenty minutes, keeping an asbestos mat under the 
kettle, as the mixture is liable to stick. When partly cool 
transfer the fish to a platter and strain over the sauce. Serve 
cold. Sea trout may be cooked in the same way. 

AliMYSA, N. Y. 



86 Good Housekeeping's Book of 



CLAM GRIDDLES 

1 pint clams V2 cupful milk 

1 tablespoonful butter or beef V^/z cupfuls pastry flour 
drippings 2 teaspoonfuls baking-powder 

2 eggs yi teaspoonful salt 

% teaspoonful pepper 

Clean clams and drain from liquor ; then chop fine. Beat 
eggs light ; add the milk and the flour mixed with the baking- 
powder and seasonings, then the butter melted and the 
chopped clams. Fry as usual on a griddle. If too thick, 
the batter should be thinned with a little milk or water. 

NORTH BERWICK, ME. 

CLAM PIE 

1 pint of hard clams or qua- 1 pint of water 

haugs 3 potatoes, diced 

1 piece of fat, salt pork, two Salt and pepper to taste 

inches square 4 tablespoonfuls flour 

1 tablespoonful butter Biscuit-dough 

Cut pork into cubes, add the clam-juice, the water, and 
butter, and simmer gently for forty-five minutes. Season to 
taste with salt and pepper. In the meantime cook potatoes 
until almost tender, and add them to the clam-juice. Thicken 
with the flour rubbed smooth in a little cold water. Add 
clams, which should be cut in pieces, and pour into a buttered 
baking-dish. Shape the biscuit-dough into small rounds, set 
over the pie, and bake about twenty minutes in a moderate 
oven. If an onion flavor is desired, one or two thinly sliced 
onions may be added to the water, clam-juice, and pork when 

first put to cook. ELMHURST, L. I. 

CODFISH CAKES 

y-2. pound salt codfish 1 eg^ 

5 to 6 medium-sized potatoes %, teaspoonful pepper 

3 ounces fat salt pork Salt 

Soak the codfish for several hours in water to cover. Pare 
the potatoes and cook them in boiling water, placing the fish, 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 87 

drained, on top during the cooking. "When the potatoes are 
done, drain. Cut the pork into dice and try out in a frying- 
pan. "When crisp, chop the pork very fine, using a chopping- 
bowl and knife for the purpose. Add the fish and chop it 
fine also ; then add the potatoes and chop, but do not mash. 
Mix well together, adding the egg unbeaten, the pepper, and 
salt if needed. Form into flat cakes, roll in flour, and fry 
to a crisp, golden brown in the pork fat. Add drippings if 
more fat is needed for frjang. This amount will make twelve 
cakes. Lawrence, mass. 

CODFISH OMELET 

1 pint codfish 1 tablespoonful butter 

1 pint raw potatoes thinly sliced 1 egg 
1/2 teaspoonful pepper % cupful milk 

Salt 2 tablespoonfuls drippings 

Parsley 

Boil the codfish, that has been soaked and picked fine, with 
the potatoes. "When cooked, mash fine and add pepper, and 
salt, if needed; add butter, yolk of egg, milk, and last of all 
the stiffly -beaten white of the egg. Melt one tablespoonful of 
drippings in each side of an omelet pan and pour in mixture; 
brown nicely. Fold together and garnish with pai*sley. 

SAN FRANCISCO, CAL. 

CONCORDIA SCALLOPED OYSTERS 

1 pint oysters 2 tablespoonfuls buttw 

2 cupfuls diced cooked celery 1 pint thin white sauce 
1 cupful dried bread- or cracker- 2 teaspoonf uls salt 

crumbs ^4 teaspoonful pepper 

Speck mace 

Prepare the oysters carefully by washing the hands and 
passing each oyster through the fingers, using extreme care 
to remove all bits of shell. Then place the oysters in a 
strainer and pour cold water through them. Place a layer 
of the crumbs in a shallow, buttered baking-dish, then a 
layer of oysters, using half of them, and then a layer of celery. 



88 Good Housekeeping's Book of 

using one cupful. Sprinkle with salt and pepper and dot 
with bits of butter ; then add a layer of the white sauce which 
has been seasoned with half of the salt and pepper and the 
mace. Repeat, having crumbs dotted with butter as the top 
layer. Bake in a hot oven one-half hour, until the crumbs 
are a rich brown. concord, mass. 



CONCORDIA OYSTER STEW 

1 pint oysters V4, teaspoonful pepper 

% cupful water 1 tablespoonful flour 

1 pint milk 1 tablespoonful margarin 

2 teaspoonfuls salt 1 pint diced celery 

Wash oysters carefully, removing every particle of shell, 
and put on to cook with the water. Watch carefully, and 
when the edges curl, remove from stove and drain. Strain 
the broth through a fine strainer, add the milk, hot but not 
boiling, and the salt and pepper. Thicken with the flour and 
margarin blended together. Add the oysters and the celery 
which has been stewed until tender, let boil up and serv^e. 
The thickening may be omitted, if preferred, but the creamy 
consistency is most delicious. If a thinner stew is desired, 
twice the quantity of milk may be used. In this case, double 
the amount of thickening also. concord, mass. 



CORN-MEAL OYSTER FRITTERS 

1 cupful corn-meal % cupful milk 

1 cupful bread flour 1 teaspoonful baking-powder 

1 teaspoonful salt 2 ejrgs 

1 dozen medium oysters 

Mix together thoroughly the com-meal, flour, salt, and 
baking-powder. Add the eggs well beaten and the milk. 
Fold the oysters into the batter. Drop by tablespoonfuls into 
hot, deep fat. Have one oyster in each fritter. Cook on 
both sides until well done. Drain on paper and serve at once. 

HASTINGS, MICH. 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 89 



CREAMED FINNAN HADDIE AND POTATO 

A 2-pound finnan haddie 1 cupful milk 

2 green peppers 1 teaspoonful salt 

2 cupfuls boiling water ^ teaspoonful pepper 

2 tablespoonfuls margarin 21/^ cupfuls cold, boiled pota- 

2 tablespoonfuls flour toes, diced 

Parboil the finnan haddie for a few minutes in boiling 
water, remove the skin, and take the fish from the bone. 
Cut it into small pieces and boil it ten minutes with the 
green peppers, chopped in the boiling water. Make a white 
sauce as follows : Melt the margarin, add the flour, cook until 
it bubbles and add gradually one cupful of the liquid in 
which the fish was cooked and the milk. Season with salt 
and pepper. Combine the fish, peppers, and potatoes with 
the white sauce. Serve hot. new york, n. y. 



FISH ROE CAKES 



1 large fish-roe 


1 egg 




Dry bread-crumbs 


% teaspoonful salt 


•r 




A little paprika 


^ 



Measure the fish-roe and add three-fourths the quantity of 
dry bread-crumbs ; then work in the seasoning and egg ; shape 
into small cakes or balls, roll in flour, and fry about eight 
minutes. Serve with stewed tomatoes. danville, pa. 



FLOUNDER ROE FRIED 

Roe from a 5-pound flounder Fine dried bread- or cracker- 

1 teaspoonful salt crumbs 

1 teaspoonful \^negar 1 egg 

Tie the roe in cheese-cloth, immerse in boiling water to which 
the salt and vinegar have been added, and cook ten nunutes. 
Remove and cover with cold water. When cool, cut in 
pieces, roll in beaten egg to which two tablespoonfuls of water 
has been added, and crumbs, and brown in hot deep fat. 
Drain on crumpled paper and serve. new york, n. y. 



90 Good Housekeeping's Book op 



FLOUNDERS WITH PARSLEY SAUCE 

4 lar^e fillets flounder i/^ cupful milk 

1 tablaspoonful salt % teaspoonful salt 

1 tablespoonful vinegar % teaspoonful pepper 

2 tablespoonfuls butter 2 tablespoonfuls finely minced 
2 tablespoonfuls flour parsley 

Tie the iSllets in eheese-eloth. Cook for six minutes in plenty 
of boiling water to which the salt and vinegar have been 
added. Remove and drain thoroughly, place on a hot platter, 
and pour over a parsley sauce made as follows: Melt in a 
saucepan the butter, add the flour, and cook till bubbling. 
Add gradually the milk and one-half cupful of the water 
in which the flounder was cooked, stirring continuously that 
the sauce may be free from lumps. Cook until well thickened, 
add salt, pepper, and parsley. new york, n. y. 



HALIBUT BAKED IN MILK 

21/^ pounds of halibut, sliced Flour 

2 tablespoonfuls minced parsley Milk 

3^^ cupful butter Salt and pepper 

Lay the fish in a deep, fire-proof platter, if possible; sea- 
son with salt and pepper, dredge with flour, sprinkle with 
the parsley, and dot with the butter. Add milk to the depth 
of one inch, and, if desired, lay over some sliced onion and 
a few minced celery-tips. Bake gently for forty-five minutes 
in a moderate oven. Cambridge, mass. 



NEW ENGLAND CODFISH DINNTER 

1 pound salt codfish 2 pounds new potatoes 
% pound salt pork 2 cupfuls small onions 

12 small raw beets 2 cupfuls medium-thick white 

2 hard-cooked eggs sauce 

Put the codfish on in cold water and bring slowly to the 
boiling-point, but do not boil If snflScient salt is extracted. 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 91 

flake with a fork. If it is still too salty, repeat by again plac- 
ing in cold water. Cut the pork in narrow, thin slices and 
crisp in oven or frying-pan. Cook the vegetables separately. 
Place the fish in a dish and cover with white sauce. Sprinkle 
chopped, hard-cooked eggs over the top. Garnish the platter 
with pork and vegetables by grouping: place the beets at 
both ends, the potatoes front and back, the onions between 
with pork strips. Parsley also adds to the appearance of 
the dish. Winter vegetables may be used, in which ease se- 
lect small potatoes and cut the beets in quarters. 

PELHAM, N. T. 

NEW SCALLOPED OYSTERS 

iy2 cupfuls dried bread- or 4 tablespoonfuls butter 

cracker-crumbs 24 oysters 

1/^ cupful stewed or canned to- % cupful com 

mate Salt and pepper 

Place one-third of the crumbs on the bottom of a buttered 
baking-dish ; on this lay one-half the oysters sprinkled gen- 
erously with salt and pepper and dotted with one tablespoon- 
ful of the butter; then add layers of tomato and corn, using 
one-half the whole quantity of each; repeat these layers of 
crumbs, oysters, seasoning, tomato, and corn.. Top all with 
a layer of buttered crumbs, using the remaining crumbs and 
butter. Bake in a moderate oven until crumbs are brown. 

ROCHESTER, N.^. 

OYSTERS CATALAN 

2 dozen blue-point oysters 3 tablespoonfuls cream 

2 tablespoonfuls butter Meat 1 good sized crab or 

2 teaspoonfuls grated Edam i/2 cupful crab meat 

cheese 1 teaspoonful Worcestershire 
4 tablespoonfuls tomato catchup sauce or a few grains cayenne 

y2 teaspoonful salt pepper 

Hot buttered toast 

Melt together the butter and cheese in a double-boiler or 
chafing-dish. When smooth add the catchup, Worcestershire, 
cream, and minced crab meat. When very hot, drop in the 
oysters, cook till they crinkle, and transfer at once to the 

toast. NAPOLEON, O. 



92 Recipes ant> Household Discoveries 



OYSTER PIE 

1 quart oysters 2 teaspoonfuls salt 

Seasoned flour %, teaspoonful pepper 

Large slice bacon V2 teaspoonful paprika 

1 tablespoonful finely minced Few grains eaj'enne pepper 

parsley Juice 1 lemon 

1 tablespoonful finely chopped 1 tablespoonful cream or butter 

green pepper Crust 

1 small onion 

Select a rather shallow dish and butter it well. Wash 
the oysters, removing any bits of shell, and wipe them dry 
between towels. Roll them in flour which has been slightly 
seasoned with salt and pepper and place half of them close to- 
gether in a single layer in the dish. Cut the bacon in tiny 
dice and try it out with the onion minced, until both are 
crisp and brown. Sprinkle half of this over the layer of 
oysters, together with half of the parsley, green pepper, salt, 
pepper, paprika, cayenne pepper, and lemon juice. Over this 
place another layer of oysters, similarly prepared and repeat 
the seasonings as above. Over all sprinkle the cream or 
butter in bits and cover with a crust. A rich biscuit-dough 
rolled thin or a pastry crust may be used. Whichever 
crust is used, roll to one-quarter inch thickness, cut in rounds, 
and remove the centers as in cutting doughnuts. Place on 
the pie and bake in a hot oven, 450° F., for twenty minutes. 

NEW YORK, N. Y. 



SOLE WITH BUTTER SAUCE 

A 4-pound sole 2 tablespoonfuls melted butter 

1 tablespoonful salt Juice i/^ lemon 

1 tablespoonful vinegar Parsley 

Fillet the sole and tie the fillets in cheese-cloth and drop 
them into boiling water in which the salt and vinegar have 
been placed. Lower the temperature and cook for about 
six minutes. Remove and drain well. Arrange on a hot 
platter, and pour over the fish the melted butter and the 
lemon juice. Garnish with parsley and serve with boiled 
potatoes. NEW york, n. y. 



Frostings 



CREAI^IY FILLING 

3 tablespoonfuls butter Few drops vanilla 

% cupful powdered sugar I/2 teaspoonful lemon or orange 

1 egg-white extract 

Cream the butter and sugar together, mixing till very 
smooth and light. Add beaten egg-white a little at a time, 
beating constantly, then add vanilla and flavoring slowly till 
all is stirred in. This should be prepared at least an hour 
before using and placed in the refrigerator. It will also be 
found an exceptionally good hard sauce. fort bliss, tex. 

LEMON BUTTER 

3 egg-yolks 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

1 egg-white % teaspoonful each vanilla and 

Juice 2 lemons lemon extract 

1 cupful sugar 

Beat the egg-yolks and white with the sugar till light ; add 
the butter and lemon juice, cook over hot water till thick, 
flavor, and cool. This may be used as a cake or sandwich. 

GEORGETOWN, DEL. 

JVIAPLE FROSTING 

1 cupful crushed maple-sugar 1 egg-white 

14 cupful hot water 

Cook sugar and water together until it spins a thread; 
pour this over the beaten white of an egg, stirring constantly; 
return to double boiler and cook till it becomes slightly dry 
around the edges. It should be stirred occasionally. Then 
remove from water and beat till thick. Washington, d. c. 

93 



94 Recipes and Household Discoveries 



1 ORANGE ICING 

2 cupf uls confectioners' sugar 1 teaspoonf ul melted butter 

Juice 1/2 orange 

Beat sugar and butter into the orange juice ^nd when stiff 
enough to hold its shape spread on the cake, killingly, conn. 

QUALITY FROSTmG 

% cupful granulated sugar 1/4 cupful boiling water 

% cupful brown sugar 1 egg-white 

1/4 teaspoonful vanilla 

Mix together the sugar and water and boil till it threads. 
Beat the egg-white stiff and pour in the sirup, beating con- 
stantly till it holds its shape. Place over hot water till it 
becomes slightly granular about the edges, add flavoring, and 
spread on the cake. yonkers, n. y. 

SUBSTITUTE FOR WHIPPED CREAM 

2 egg-whites ^4 pound marshmallows 

14 cupful condensed milk Flavoiing 

Beat the whites of the eggs until very stiff and dry. Add 
slowly to the condensed milk, beating constantly. Heat the 
marshmallows in the top of a double-boiler until soft. Then 
into the above mixture beat the softened marshmallows. Add 
any flavoidng desired and beat all together well. 

new YORK, N. Y. 

SUGARLESS CAKE FILLING 

1 tablespoonful marshmallow 1 cupful jam or fruit conserve 

cream Shredded coconut 

Beat the marshmallow cream into the jam or conserve, 
using any preferred flavor of the latter. Spread on the cake 
and sprinkle a little shredded coconut over the surface. 

TOMS RIVER, N. J. 



Fruit Combinations 



APPLE CRISP 

8 apples, sliced (about 1 quart) 1 cupful sugar 
1 teaspoonful cinnamon % cupful flour 

y^ cupful water 7 tablespoonfuls butter 

Butter a fire-proof dish and fill with the apples, water, and 
cinnamon mixed. Work together the remainder of the in- 
gredients with the finger-tips until crumbly, spread over the 
apple-mixture, and hake uncovered for about thirty minutes. 
Serve with whipped cream, lemon sauce, or maple-sirup. 

FABGO, N. DAK. 



APPLE PUDDING 

5 apples 1 teaspoonful vinegar 

^ cupful molasses 1 teaspoonful cinnamon 

%, cupful brown sugar 1/4 cupful cold water 

1 tablespoonful butter 

Grease a pudding dish, put in the apples, which have been 
pared, cored, and quartered, then add the other ingredients in 
the order given and cover the top with a rich pie crust. 
Bake thirty minutes. Nashua, n. h. 



BAKED APPLES DE LUXE 

2 quarts apples ^ cupful butter 

% cupful sugar 

Cut the fruit in quarters, but do not pare, though dark 
spots should be removed. Melt the butter and add the sugar 
to it. Stir this mixture with the apples and place all in a deep 

95 



96 Good Housekeeping's Book of 

pan, cover closely and bake slowly for one hour. Serve hot 
with meats. Philadelphia, pa. 



BAKED DRIED PEACHES 

1 pound dried peaches ^ teaspoonful cinnamon 

y^ cupful sirup or honey 1 tablespoonful margarin 

2 eupfuls cold water 

Soak the peaches overnight. Place in a deep dish, sprinkle 
with the cinnamon, and pour over them the sirup or honey. 
Cover with the cold water. Bake until nearly tender, add the 
margarin, and complete the baking. Albany, n. y. 



BAKED PINEAPPLE 

8 slices pineapple 2 teaspoonf uls butter 

6 graham crackers Pineapple juice 

Butter a baking-dish and cover the bottom with graham 
crackers finely crumbed. Then put in a layer of sliced canned 
pineapple, keeping the slices whole. Dot with butter and 
add another layer of crumbs, continuing in this way until all 
is used. Pour over the pineapple juice and bake three-quar- 
ters of an hour. Either canned pineapple or fresh cooked 
pineapple and juice may be used in this recipe. 

WASHINGTON, D. C. 



BANANAS, WEST INDIAN STYLE 

6 bananas 6 tablespoonfuls water 

4 tablespoonfuls sugar 5 drops tabasco sauce 

Dash lemon juice 

Peel bananas, cut in halves crosswise, and drop into deep 
fat hot enough to brown a bit of bread in one minute. When 
brown, drain on paper-toweling or brown paper. Boil to- 
gether the sugar, water, and tabasco sauce, add bananas and 
lemon juice, heat for a few minutes, and serve. Roberts, cal. 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 97 



FRIED APPLES WITH ONIONS 

! pints quartered tart apples Meat drippings, or butter, about 

1 pints sliced onions 14 cupful 

^ teaspoonfuls salt 2 tablespoonfuls sugar 

Heat the fat in a frying-pan, add the onions and salt, and 
look gently over a slow fire for ten minutes, stirring ocea- 
ionally. Add the apples and sugar and let cook slowly un- 
il browned. akron, o. 

MAPLE APPLE SAUCE 

1 quarts apples 1 lemon, sliced and cut into 

.y2 cupfuls maple sirup quarters 

Prepare the apples by paring, coring, and cutting into 
ighths. Mix all the ingredients together and bake in a cov- 
red earthenware dish in a moderate oven for several hours 
mtil the apples are tender and of a rich dark red color. 
Jse as a meat accompaniment. Jamaica plain, mass. 



RUSSIAN APPLES 

' large dark apples 6 tablespoonfuls sugar 

tablespoonfuls mince-meat Hard sauce 

Pare and core the apples, fill the centers with mince-meat, 
)lace in a baking-pan, and sprinkle generously with sugar, 
'our in a little boiling water, and bake half an hour, basting 
iften. Serve hot with hard sauce, flavored with lemon and 

LUtmeg. REDDING; CONN. 



Meat 



BAKED CALVES' LIVER 

1^ pounds calves' liver, whole 2 tablespoonfuls thick, sour 
1 cupful hot water cream 

1 tablespoonful flour Salt and pepper 

Butter or salt pork bits 

Remove the skin, and lard the liver with small strips of 
salt pork. Dust with salt and pepper. Brown in the butter 
or salt pork bits. Add the hot water and bake thirty min- 
utes in a hot oven, basting twice, the last time with the cream 
and flour mixture. palmyra, n. y. 



BAKED CORNED BEEF HASH 

3 cupfuls cooked corned beef 2 tablespoonfuls butter or drip- 
chopped pings 
1 medium sized onion 1% cupfuls milk 
6 medium sized potatoes 2 teaspoonfuls salt 
1/2 teaspoonful pepper 

Grease a casserole, place in the bottom the chopped meat, 
add the onion minced, then slice on top the raw potatoes. 
Season each layer of potatoes with butter, salt, and pepper. 
Pour milk over all. Cover and bake until milk is absorbed 
and potatoes are tender. eau claire, wis. 



BAKED HAM WITH APPLES 

2 pounds sliced ham % cupful water 

6 medium sized tart apples 1% cupfuls brown sngar 

10 whole cloves 
98 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 99 

Order the ham sliced an inch thick, wash, trim off most 
£ the fat, and then rub in as much of the sugar as it will 
ake up. Lay in a pan and sprinkle with the cloves. Pare 
nd cut the apples in quarters and lay them around the ham. 
Iprinkle the remaining sugar over the apples, and add the 
rater carefully so as not to dislodge it. Cover and bake 
orty-five minutes, or till the ham is tender, pittsbueg, pa. 



BAKED ORANGES WITH VEAL 

slice veal steak 2 large oranges 

tablespoonfuls flour % cupful water 

tablespoonful margarin 1 teaspoonful salt 

bay leaf ^ teaspoonful pepper 

Parsley 

Order a slice of veal steak cut one inch thick ; it will weigh 
bout one and one-half pounds. Dip this in flour and place 
; in a greased casserole; dot over with bits of margarin, 
prinkle with salt and pepper, and add the bay-leaf. Peel 
nd quarter the oranges and place these around the steak, 
dd the water and bake until golden brown, basting often, 
erve on hot platter and alternate oranges with sprigs of 
arsley. Make a gravy using the remainder of the flour, 
Basoning, and water as needed. Pour gravy over the steak 
nd serve at once. Toledo, o. 



BAKED PORK CHOPS WITH APPLES 

pork chops Pepper 

tablespoonfuls diied bread- Sage 
crumbs 3 large apples 

alt 3 teaspoonfuls butter 

Dust pork chops lightly with salt, pepper, bread-crumbs 
ad sage. Place in a baking-dish, put on each a halved, cored 
pple containing one-half teaspoonful of butter, and cook 
1 a moderate oven till tender, about forty-nve minutes, 
^hen the crumbs are brown, add a little water. 

NEV7 YORK, N. Y. 



100 Good Housekeeping's Book of 



1 



BAKED SAUSAGE WITH APPLES 

1 cupful stale bread 6 large sausages or 1 pound 

1 cupful cold corn bread I/2 onion, scraped or grated 

2 tablespoonfuls chopped liver Sweet herbs and seasoning to 
5 or 6 apples taste 

Milk, #bout 1 cupful 

Soak the bread and corn bread in sweet milk for five min- 
utes and squeeze dry; add liver and seasoning, and arrange 
in a mound in the center of a large, shallow, greased baking 
dish. Around this lay the sausages, pricking or gashing each 
one, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes; then 
pour off the superfluous fat, and add the apples, cored and 
cut in thick slices; baste all freely with fat, and bake one- 
half hour longer. redding, conn. 

BAKED SL-IOED HAJM I 

*2 pounds sliced ham 2 teaspoonfuls minced parsley 

[2 teaspoonfuls minced onion "'^^ Juice V2 lemon to each slice 

Order ham sliced one-half inch thick; remove fat nearly 
to the lean, and chop it fine; mince the onion and parsley, 
mix with the fat, and spread over the ham, which should be 
put into a dripping-pan. Squeeze over the lemon juice, and 
bake till tender in a moderate oven, from thirty to forty min- 
utes. A delicious brown or milk gravy can be made from 
the drippings in the pan. Chicago, ill. 

BAKED SLICED HAM II 
1 slice fat ham 2 tablespoonfuls sugar 

Trim off the wide rim of fat on the ham, chop it fine, and 
mix thoroughly with the sugar. Place the ham in a skillet, 
dripping-pan, or fireless-cooker pan, and spread the chopped 
mixture over it. Bake for twenty-five minutes in a hot oven, 
or allow forty-five minutes with a radiator at 400° P. in a 
fireless cooker. It is not necessary to freshen the ham. 

ELGIN, ILL. 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 101 



BEEF FRICASSEE 

L flank steak %, teaspoonful pepper 

L onion 4 tablespoonfuls flour 

2 teaspoonfuls salt Baking-powder biscuit mixture 

Purchase a piece of meat cut from the flank, weighing be- 
tween two and three pounds. Simmer the meat slowly in 
;vater to cover with the onion, salt, and pepper, until \evy 
:ender. Take one-half the meat, trim off the fat, which should 
DC saved for other purposes, and cut in one-inch pieces, 
rhicken two cupfuls of the stock with the flour and re- 
leat the meat in this. Add more seasoning if needed. Pour 
:he whole over spilt baking-powder biscuits, after the man- 
ler of chicken fricassee. Use the rest of the meat in an- 
)ther dish, such as hash or souffle. If any stock is left, it 
nay be used to moisten the hash, or in soup or scrapple. 

CEDAR RAPIDS, lA. 

BEEF LIVER WITH ONIONS 

iy2 pounds beef liver alt and pepper 

5 onions ±5acon-fat 

Fiour 

Order the liver sliced thin. Remove the skin and veins 
irom the liver, then dust it with flour, salt, and pepper. Slice 
he onions thin and fry till soft in the bacon-fat. Remove the 
)nions and fry the liver rapidly in the fat. When brown on 
)ne side turn, put the onions on top, and finish cooking. 
Remove to a hot platter, add a little water to the drippings 
n the pan to make a gravy, and pour it over the liver. If 
iesired a little thinly sliced bacon may be cooked and used 
is a garnish. new york, n, y. 

BEEF LOAF 

I pounds chopped fresh beef 1 tablespoonful salt 

,4 pound fresh pork ^ teaspoonful pepper 

[1/2 cupfuls oatmeal put through 2 teaspoonfuls poultry seasoning 

grinder 2 teaspoonfuls tomato catchup 

I eggs 2 teasi3oonfuls melted butter 

Abont V2 cupful cold water 



102 Good Housekeeping's Book of 

Mix together in order given, adding enough cold water to 
make it stick together, but leave it stiff enough to keep its 
shape when formed into a roll. Heat two tablespoonfuls of 
drippings in a frying-pan, put in the meat-roll, and brown 
it slightly all over. Then pour over it a little boiling water, 
set it in the oven, and bake gently for an hour and a quarter, 
basting frequently. augusta, kan. 



BEEF SCRAPPLE 

2 pounds shin of beef About 3 cupfuls com-meal 

1/2 pound cooked liver 1 tablespoonful salt 

1 tablespoonful sage 1 teaspoonful pepper 

Water 

Cover the soup bone well with water and cook slowly till 
meat is thoroughly done and begins to drop from bone. Then 
remove meat and bone. Cut off meat and put through food- 
chopper together with the liver. Return chopped meat to 
the stock and add the salt, pepper and sage. When it boils 
add corn-meal, which should be barely moistened with cold 
water. The exa^t quantity to add will depend upon the 
amount of stock ; there should be at least two quarts. Add 
the corn-meal slowly till the spoon will stand alone in the 
center of it. Cook very slowly for at least an hour. Pour 
into two greased bread-pans and allow to chill thoroughly. 
Turn out of mold, slice thin, and fry till brown. This will 
keep for a long time in a cold place. Washington, pa. 



CAIMP STEW 

y^ pound shredded, dried beef 3 slices diced bacon 

1 tablespoonful butter 2 cupfuls sliced potatoes 

2 tablespoonfuls flour I/2 cupful sliced onions 

1 quart hot water 

Cook together the butter, flour, and bacon till browned. 
Then add the water, potatoes, and onions; cook twenty min- 
utes more, then turn in the beef, boil for ten minutes, and 
serve. A little pepper may be added if desired. 

SEYMOUR, CONN. 



Kecipes and Household Discoveries 



103 



CASSEROLE FLANK STEAK 



A flank steak 
1 tablespoonful vinegar 
% cupful rolled oats 
% cupful boiling water 
1 cupful browned com 

or muffin crumbs 
1 teaspoonful salt 
1 teaspoonful fine sage 



1 tablespoonful chopped onion 

1 teaspoonful chopped green 
pepper 

14 teas]^oonful pepper 
bread 12 small potatoes 
12 tiny carrots 
Wat€r 

2 tablespoonfuls flour 



Score the steak, being careful not to cut all the way 
through; brush with vinegar and let stand while preparing 
the filling. Pour the boiling water over the oat flakes and 
cook until the water is all absorbed. Let cook and mix it 
with the crumbs, which have been browned in the oven, and 
the seasonings; add enough water to moisten sufficiently to 
spread on steak. After spreading the filling on the steak, 
roll, skewer, or tie together; lard with trimmings from the 
steak. Place in a greased casserole, arrange potatoes and 
carrots around the steak, pour in one-half cupful of water, 
cover, and place in oven for about two hours. Remove meat 
and vegetables and use flour axid water as needed in making 
grav^'. Sliced large potatoes and carrots may be used if 
desired. Milwaukee, wis. 



CASSEROLE OF BEEF 



2% pounds beef chuck 
1 quart canned tomato 
3^ cupful bacon drippings 
% cupful flour 

1 large onion 

2 teaspoonfuls salt 
^ teaspoonful pepper 



•i cloves 

1 green or red pepper or pimi- 
ento, chopped 

1 teaspoonful salt 

% teaspoonful pepper 
1/2 teaspoonful mustard 

2 bay leaves 



Roll beef cut in convenient pieces in the flour seasoned 
with salt and pepper (flrst column) ; brown it with the onion, 
chopped, in the bacon drippings. Place in a casserole. Put 
any remaining flour into the fat in the pan and add the rest 
of the ingredients to make the sauce. Pour it over the beef 
in the casserole and bake two to three hours at a temperature 

of 350° F. NEW YORK, N. Y. 



104 Good Housekeeping's Book of 



COLD BOILED TONGUE WITH SPANISH SAUCE 

1 beef tongne 1 onion 

1 cupful mild vinegar 6 sweet cucumber pickles or 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar fresh cucumbers (small ones) 
^ teaspoonful ground cloves 1 sweet green or red pepper 

6 olives 

Boil the tongue in sufficient vs^ater to cover until tender. 
Skin and allow to cool. Slice thinly and spread with the 
sauce made in the following manner : Chop the peppers, on- 
ion, cucumbers, and olives finely. Cover with the vinegar, 
sugar, and spices. Let boil fifteen minutes. When cold, 
spread on the tongue. The part of the tongue not suitable 
for slicing can be used in hash or a scalloped dish, norwey, ia. 

CORN-MEAL VEAL 

I pound veal 24 green olives, chopped 

1 pint canned tomatoes 1 tablespoonful chilli powder or 

1 onion, chopped fine 1 long chilli pepper, chopped 

1 clove garlic, chopped fine 3 teaspoonfuls salt 

About 2 cupfuls corn-meal ^/4 teaspoonful pepper 

^ teaspoonful paprika 

Boil the veal until tender, chop fine, then return to the 
liquor, of which there should be about five cupfuls, add the 
balance of the ingredients, except the meal, simmer until 
tender, and add gradually enough corn-meal moistened with 
cold water to thicken. Add seasonings and pour into a well- 
greased loaf-pan. Let it get cold, slice, roll in flour, and fry 
as scrapple. This may be baked in a casserole. 

SAN MATEO, CAL. 

DELICIOUS BAKED TONGUE 

1 fresh beef tongue 1 onion 

1 cupful strained, stewed tomato 8 medium-sized potatoes 

1 cupful water 2 tablespoonfuls flour 

Salt Pepper 

Boil the tongue one hour in salted water and place in a 
fireless cooker overnight. In the morning remove the skin. 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 105 

sprinkle well with salt and pepper, and place in a roasting- 
pan or large casserole. Mix together the tomato-juice, water, 
and chopped onion, and pour it around the tongue. Bake in 
a rather slow oven for two hours. Three-quarters of an 
hour before it is done, place whole, pared potatoes sprinkled 
with salt and pepper around the tongue. Roast till tender 
and brown ; remove cover to brown potatoes if necessary. Re- 
move the tongue to a platter, surround with potatoes. Add 
one cupful or more of water to the sauce and thicken with the 
flour mixed till smooth with a little water. Add more sea- 
soning if needed. Pour a few tablespoonfuls of the gravy 
over the tongue. Pass the rest. The ends of the tongue may 
be chopped and used in "made" dishes. Washington, pa. 



DEVILED BEEP 

Cold roast-beef (sliced) Salt 

Butter Pepper 

Prepared mustard Vinegar 

Cut cold roast beef in thin slices, spread with butter, then 
with prepared mustard ; sprinkle with a little salt and pepper, 
and slightly moisten with vinegar. Let stand ten minutes 
and cook quickly in a hot frying-pan with a little additional 
butter to prevent sticking. Serve very hot with the pan drip- 
pings poured over it. Cold cooked steak, if sliced across the 
grain, may also be used. harvard, mass. 



"DIFFERENT" DRIED BEEF 

^2 pound dried beef 3 tablespoonfuls bacon-drippings 

4 to 6 bananas (not overripe) 

Heat the bacon-fat in a frjang-pan and add the dried beef 
(unfreshened) picked into small pieces. Frizzle for two or 
three minutes, then transfer the beef to a hot platter and 
put the bananas cut in halves crosswise and then lengthwise 
in the frying-pan. Do not allow them to cook, but turn al- 
most immediately, letting them stand only long enough to 
heat through. Arrange around the beef. deland, fla. 



106 Good Housekeeping's Book of 



DINNER PIE 

1 pound beef liver 1 small onion 

2 slices bacon 3 tablespoonfuls flour 
6 medium potatoes 2 teaspoonfuls salt 

2 cupfuls boiling water 

Cut the liver into strips and parboil five minutes in boiling 
Vi^ater to cover. Drain and roll in flour. Fry the bacon 
crisp, remove, and saute the liver in the bacon fat until nicely 
browned. Remove the liver and arrange in a casserole. Add 
the boiling water to the fat in the pan and stir until well 
blended. Cut the bacon into small pieces and lay over the 
liver. Put the potatoes and onions through a food-chopper 
and mix with the rest of the flour and salt. Spread over the 
liver, pouring the gravy over all. Cover and bake in a hot 
oven until the liver and potato are thoroughly cooked. The 
potatoes may be cooked, mashed, and placed on top, if pre- 
ferred. MELW^AUKEE, WIS. 

ENGLISH HASH 

3 tablespoonfuls olive-oil 3 cupfuls boiled rice 
1 small onion chopped 1 teaspoonful salt 

% pound chopped raw beef Vk teaspoonful pepper 

Put oil in frying-pan. When very hot add the beef and 
stir with a fork until it is seared, then add the rice, onion, 
and seasoning; cook until the meat is thoroughly done, stir- 
ring all the time. Serve at once. Washington, pa. 



FIRELESS BAKED HAM 
1 medium-sized ham Cloves 

Wipe the ham carefully and place in the largest fireless 
cooker kettle. Cover with cold water nearly to the top of the 
kettle. Bring to a boil and boil rapidly for one-half hour. 
Clamp the kettle cover on tightly and place immediately in 
the cooker. Leave in the fireless cooker for five hours. Re- 
move the kettle from the cooker, uncover and allow the meat to 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 107 

cool in the liquid. Pour off the liquor and dry the ham thor- 
oughly; trim it neatly, removing the outside skin. Stick the 
surface of the ham with whole cloves about an inch apart. 
Place the ham in the tireless kettle, being sure that it is 
very dry. Heat two radiators: if soapstone to 550*^ F., if 
metal to 600° F. Place one in the bottom of the cooker well, 
place the kettle containing the ham on top of that and cover 
with the second heated radiator. At the end of two hours, 
remove the ham and serve. new yobk, n. y. 



HOMINY AND SAUSAGE, MARYLAND STYLE 

2 cupfuls hot cooked hominy ^4 pound small sausages or sau- 

3 thin slices bacon sage meat 

Place hominy in a shallow greased baking dish, filling it 
about two-thirds full. Arrange in a regular design over the 
top thin slices of sausage meat or small sausages cut in halves. 
Place the bacon over all. Bake until sausage and bacon are 
cooked and brown. Serve for breakfast, luncheon, or supper. 

CONCORD, MASS. 

HUNGARIAN GOULASH 

1 dozen onions 3 teaspoonfuls salt 

Paprika to make pink (about % 3 pomids stew meat, preferably 
teaspoonful) beef 

y2 cupful butter 

Chop the onions fine, and cook them in the butter till they 
are well browned. Cut the meat in pieces, but do not dry 
it after washing, so that there will be enough moisture to 
make gravy. Add the salt and paprika, put all in a cas- 
serole, and cook very slowly for two and a half or three 

hours. NEW YORK, N. Y. 

JELLIED BEEF 

5 or 6 pounds shank of beef Cold water nearly to cover 

^ teaspoonful pepper 2 teaspoonfuls salt 

Order the bone chopped in medium-sized pieces. Almost 
cover with cold water. Bring to boiling-point, let it boil for 



108 Good Housekeeping's Book op 

ten to fifteen minutes, and cook overnight in the fireless 
cooker. In the morning chop the meat in small pieces, re- 
duce the liquor to one and one-half cupfuls, add the season- 
ings, combine with the meat, and pack into molds or jars. 
Set in a cool place until solidified. If desired a tablespoon- 
ful of vinegar and one teaspoonful of onion juice may be 
added to the cooking water. Brooklyn, n. y. 

LAMB-CHOPS WITH GREEN PEPPERS 

2 pounds lamb-ehops 1 cupful canned tomato 

3 tablespoonfuls butter I14 cupfuls stock 

2 small onions, minced 1 teaspoonful curry-powdew' 

2 green peppers, chopped Salt and pepper 

11/2 tablespoonfuls flour 

Fry the onions and the chopped peppers in the butter till 
tender; add the tomatoes, stock, and seasoning and thicken 
with the flour, moistened with a little cold water. Broil the 
chops slightly, season, lay them in a baking-dish, pour over 
the sauce, and bake ten minutes in a hot oven. Serve with 
thimbles of rice. Stamford, conn. 

MOCK SWEETBREADS 

1 pound fresh tripe 2 cupfuls rich white sauce 
Vinegar Rounds of toast 

Clean tripe very thoroughly, boil in water to cover for sev- 
eral hours until very tender. Put in cold water, add a very 
little vinegar, pull off any loose skin, then cut in dice. Re- 
heat in the white sauce, which should be well seasoned. Use. 
some white stock in making the sauce if possible. Put on 
rounds of toast and serve very hot. concord, mass. 

MUTTON loa:;^ 

2 pounds lean mutton, chopped 2 eggs 

1 cupful stale bread-crumbs 2 teaspoonfuls salt 

y^ cupful melted butter Few grains cayenne pepper 

Juice Yz lemon 

The best way to procure the mutton is to purchase a fore- 
quarter, and grind the meat at home. The bones and trim- 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 109 

mings will make an excellent stew. Add the ingredients in 
the order in which they are mentioned, beating the eggs 
slightly. Form into a loaf, place in a baking-pan, and pour 
in a little hot water. Bake three-quarters of a hour in a 
moderate oven, basting frequently. Serve hot with buttered 
peas and a highly-seasoned brown sauce made from the drip- 
pings in the pan. Carthage, mo. 

"MY MEAT CAKES" 

14 pound chopped meat V^ teaspoonful pepper 

1 cupful cooked rolled oats Dash Worcestershire sauce 

1 small onion, chopped About % cupful hot water 
^2 green pepper, chopped 1 egg 

2 teaspoonfuls salt 2 tablespoonfuls milk 

2 or 3 tablespoonfuls drippings About 1 cupful corn flakes 
1 tablespoonful flour 

Mis well the meat, oats, onions, green pepper, salt, and pep- 
per. Form in croquette shape, roll in beaten egg diluted with 
the milk, then in toasted corn flakes crushed. Place in a paa 
with drippings, cover, and cook quickly if the meat is already 
cooked; if not, broil gently so as not to brown too quickly. 
Add the flour to the juice in the pan, the hot water, and the 
Worcestershire sauce. Serve with or over the cakes. This 
is enough to serve four. Milwaukee, wis. 



NEW ENGLAND BOILED DINNER 

4 to 6 pounds corned beef » 1 large turnip 

1 cabbage 8 medium-sized potatoes 

4 to 6 carrots 6 to 8 beets 

3 to 4 parsnips Onions, if desired 

Place a piece of fancy brisket or some other preferred cut 
of corned beef in a large kettle. Cover with hot water if the 
meat was left in brine only over night ; otherwise use cold. 
Allow to simmer for three to four hours, depending upon the 
size of the piece. About one to one and one-half hours before 
serving time add the carrots, parsnips, and turnips. The 
exact time allowed will depend upon the size of the vege- 
tables. Carrots and turnips will require a longer time than 



110 Good Housekeeping's Book of 

parsnips. If the carrots and parsnips are not too large, 
leave them whole ; otherwise split them. Yellow turnips 
should be cut in thick slices, which in turn should be cut in 
halves. Cut the cabbage in quarters and place in a kettle 
three-quarters of an hour before serving. One-half hour be- 
fore serving add the potatoes. The beets and onions, if de- 
sired, should be boileU separately. The cabbage and beets 
are usually served in separate dishes while the other vegetables 
are served on the same platter as the meat. Onions, if used, 
are served separately. The vegetables that are left over are 
combined with some of the meat in the making of "calico 

hash." HAVERHILL, MASS. 



NEW LAMB STEW 

3 pounds lamb from the fore- 1 can tomato soup 
quarter 1 small bottle olives 

y<2, cupful rice 

Cover the lamb with hot water and cook one hour. Add 
the rice and boil one hour longer. Slice the olives and add, 
together with the soup, to the lamb. Serve hot. 

SPRINGFIELD, MASS. 



NEW POT ROAST 

2 pounds beef 

11/2 pounds potatoes y^ cupful molasses 

1 cupful dry beans %, cupful sirup 

1 tablespoonful salt % teaspoonful pepper 

Soak the beans over night in water to cover; drain in the 
morning, cover again with water, and bring verj^ slowly to 
a boil. When the skins begin to loosen, drain. Select chuck, 
bottom round, or any similar cut of beef. Brown the meat 
on all sides and place it in a large roasting-pan ; about it 
place the potatoes pared and cut in one and one-half inch 
slices, the prunes (which have been washed thoroughly), the 
beans prepared as above, the molasses, sirup, seasoning, and 
water enough to cover all the vegetables well. Cover and cook 
in a moderate oven for about three hours. Lancaster, pa. 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 111 



OXTAIL AND SPAGHETTI 

1 ox-tail 1/2 tablespoonful salt 

1/2 pound spaghetti % teaspoonful white pepper 

1 medium-sized onion % teaspoonful paprika 

1 cupful canned tomatoes Few grains cayenne pepper 

14 cupful dry crumbs 

Separate the ox-tail at the joints and cook it gently, in 
water to cover, until it is very tender. About three hours' 
cooking will be required. Remove the ox-tail, bring the stock 
to the boiling point, add the salt and spaghetti, broken into 
short lengths. Cook the spaghetti until it is tender. Then 
add the meat cut from the bones and chopped, the onion 
minced, the tomatoes, and the pepper. Place all in a greased 
baking-dish, cover thinly with the crumbs, and bake three- 
quarters of an hour. ST. louis, mo. 



PLANKED CORNED BEEF HASH 

Corned beef, chopped very finely Salt 

Cold boiled potatoes, chopped Pepper 

very finely 4 to 6 eggs 
1 tablespoonful green pepper. Paprika to taste 

chopped Butter or margarin 

Hot milk 

Chop the corned beef xevy fine and mix it with twice its 
quantity of cold boiled potatoes, likewise finely chopped. 
For the small-sized plank, six cupfuls of hash will be suffi- 
cient. Add one tablespoonful of chopped green pepper, salt, 
pepper, and paprika to taste. If the mixture seems too 
stiff, moisten with a little hot milk and melted margarin. 
Make a mound of the hash in the center of the hot plank. 
Flatten it slightly and make several indentations on the sur- 
face. In each of these break an egg. Sprinkle the surface 
with salt, pepper, and bits of butter or margarin. Cook un- 
der a low broiler flame or in a slow oven until the eggs are 
set and the hash is browned and heated through. To serve, 
sprinkle the top with finely chopped parslej^ and arrange 
slices of cucumber pickle around the edge. new york, n. y. 



112 Good Housekeeping's Book of 



PORK-CHOPS A L'INDIENNE 

2 tablespoonfuls melted butter 1 tablespoonful walnut catchup 
1 tablespoonful chili sauce 1 teaspoonful prepared mustard 

1 tablespoonful Worcestershire I/2 teaspoonful salt 
sauce Dash cayenne pepper 

Mashed potatoes 

Mix together the butter, chili sauce, Worcestershire sauce, 
walnut catchup, mustard, salt, and cayenne. Pan-broil six 
lean pork-chops slightly on both sides, then gash them with a 
sharp knife and place in a dripping-pan, pouring the sauce 
over them. Bake in a hot oven until the chops are done. Mash 
the potatoes well, beating them to a delicate, creamy whiteness, 
and form them into a pointed mound on a round platter. 
Arrange the chops pyramid fashion about the potatoes with 
the bones pointing upward in the center. Garnish with a ring 
of finely-chopped parsley and scatter some of the parsley over 
the potatoes. Philadelphia, pa. 



PORK-CHOPS WITH DRESSING 

1% pounds pork-chops 3 eupfuls stale bread-crumbs 

1 onion Vs teaspoonful pepper 

3 tablespoonfuls butter 1 teaspoonful poultry-seasoning 

1 egg 1^/4 teaspoonfuls salt 

Place pork-chops in a dripping-pan, soak the crumbs in 
warm water to moisten, squeeze dry, and add the onion 
ground and the other ingredients ; put a mound of the dress- 
ing on each chop, set a slice of onion on top of each, and dot 
the onion with butter. Put a little water in the pan and bake 
in a moderate oven till the meat is tender, about an hour. 

RIVERSIDE, R. I. 



PORTO RICAN POT ROAST 

3 pounds bottom round of beef 1 large onion 

1 small bottle stuffed olives 1 pint canned tomatoes 

%, pound salt pork 2 teaspoonfuls salt 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 113 

Make small slits or holes with a sharp knife on each side 
of the roast. Cut the salt pork in small strips an inch long 
and stuff the holes alternately with these and the stuffed olives. 
Try out a piece of suet in a heavy kettle, slice the onion, fry 
it in this, then remove all bits of onion and suet, brown the 
roast on all sides, and then add a half -pint of boiling water 
and the tomatoes. Season when half done. Simmer for three 
hours, keeping as little liquid in the kettle as possible. 
Thicken the gravy with flour and cold water mixed to a paste. 

HACKENSACK, N. J. 

POT ROAST 

i pounds beef chuck or bottom 2 teaspoonfuls salt 

round 1 teaspoonful Worcestershire 
L tablespoonful drippings sauce 

3 tablespoonfuls butter V4, teaspoonful pepper 

3 tablespoonfuls flour Juice V2 lemon 

3 cupfuls cold water 

Dredge both sides of the meat with flour, and brown each 
side in a hot spider in which the tablespoonful of dripping 
has been melted. Remove to an earthen casserole and pour 
over the meat the following sauce: In the hot spider melt 
the butter and blend with it the flour, adding the water grad- 
ually. Cook until thickened and smooth, and add the sea- 
sonings. Pour over the meat and cook for three hours in a 
slow oven. If the piece of meat is thick, cook longer. 

NANTUCKET, MASS. 

POT ROAST OF VEAL 

4 pounds rump of veal 3 diced carrots 

2 ounces suet 2 teaspoonfuls salt 

I pint stewed tomatoes Vs teaspoonful pepper 

Try out the beef drippings in an iron kettle and remove 
the cracklings. Put in the meat and brown it slowly, taking 
care not to use too much heat, as that will make it stick and 
burn. When properly colored, remove from the pot, season, 
and add the rest of the ingredients to drippings. Pour in a 
pint of boiling water or stock, replace the meat, and put in the 



114 Good Housekeeping's Book of 

bones. Cover tightly and cook slowly from three to four 
hours. When meat is tender remove and let it cool slightly, 
so that it will not fall apart when cut. Thicken the gravy 
with a tablespoonful of flour or corn-starch mixed with cold 
water, and allow it to boil for five minutes, then strain and 
season it with a half-teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce. A 
small shoulder of veal, boned and rolled, can be used in this 

way. NEW YORK, N. Y. 



POT ROAST WITH VEGETABLES 

4 pounds beef chuck or bottom ^/4 teaspoonful pepper 
round 1 cupful celery, cut in small 

1 Spanish onion pieces 

4 tomatoes 1 tablespoonful drippings 

2 sweet green or red peppers 4 tablespoonfuls flour 
1 pint hot water 2 teaspoonfuls salt 

Dredge the meat with flour, and brown each side in a hot 
spider in which the drippings have been melted. Place in 
casserole and surround with the vegetables. Put seasonings 
in the spider, add the hot water, and pour over meat. Place 
casserole in oven and cook four hours. Thicken gravy with 
the flour mixed with cold water to pour. Canned tomatoes and 
peppers may be used. nantucket, mass. 



QUICK BEEF A LA MODE 

2 pounds round of beef 2 teaspoonfuls salt 

5 medium-sized onions Vg teaspoonful pepper 

y^ cupful butter or beef drip- 4 cloves 

pings 2 tablespoonfuls flovir 

1 pint stewed tomatoes 

Slice onions and cook till yellowed in the fat. Add the 
cloves and the beef cut in cubes, and fry till browned. Then 
add a pint of boiling water, the tomatoes, and seasoning, and 
simmer for an hour and a half. When ready to serve, thicken 
the gravy with the flour moistened in a little cold water. 

MISSOULA, MONT. 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 115 

SALT PORK WITH CREAM GRAVY 

i/^ pound mixed salt pork 1^ cupfuls milk 

J4 cupful flour Vs teaspoonful pepper 

Slice the salt pork thinly and dip each slice in flour. Rub 
3ver a hot frying-pan with the pork rind and fry the slices 
3f pork until they are golden brown and crisp. Remove to 

1 hot platter. Pour off all but two tablespoonfuls of the fat, 
idd the rest of the flour, cook until bubbling and add the 
milk gradually, stirring constantly. Cook until thickened, 
idd the pepper, and pour over the fried pork. Serve at once 
with baked potatoes. beooklyn, n. y. 

SAUSAGE AND BANANAS 

iy2 pounds country sausage 3 large firm bananas 

y2 sweet green pepper 

Form sausage into cakes and roll in flour. Cut bananas in 
lialf lengthwise and dip in flour, or in egg and cracker- 
3rums. Fry sausage until brown, pour off nearly all the 
fat, then put in the bananas and fry until a delicate brown. 
Serve on hot platter with bananas surrounding the sausage 
and garnish with strips of sweet green pepper. 

PLAINFIELD, N. J. 

SAUSAGE LOAF 

2 pounds round or flank steak 1 teaspoonful Worcestershire 
1 pound ham sauce 

1 teaspoonful ground mace 2 teaspoonfuls salt 

i cupfuls soft bread-crumbs 1 teaspoonful ground cloves 

Put the steak and ham through a meat chopper and mix 
weU. Add the bread-crumbs and seasoning. Roll in the 
form of a Bologna sausage, sew in a muslin bag, and steam 
for two hours. Serve cold, cut into thin slices. Halifax, n. s. 



116 Good Housekeeping's Book op 



SAUTED PICKLED TRIPE 

1 pound pickled tripe 6 strips salt pork 

Corn-meal 

Select honeycomb tripe, cut in diamond shaped pieces the 
right size for a serving, dip in com-raeal and brown quickly 
in pork fat obtained from trying out the pork strips. Serve 
the pork with the tripe in crisp brown strips, and accom- 
pany with mealy baked potatoes, concord, mass. 



SAVORY CHICKEN FRICASSEE 

1 four-pound chicken % teaspoonful summer savory 

3 medium-sized onions % teaspoonful sage 

1 pimiento i/2 teaspoonful curry-powder 

y^ cupful minced ham II/2 teaspoonfuls salt 

^ teaspoonful pepper 

Put legs, neck, wings, and giblets on the bottom of stew- 
pan; chop together the pimiento, ham, and onions, and 
sprinkle it over this layer. Dust on a little of the pepper 
and salt, place the remainder of the chicken on this, cover with 
boiling water, set lid on tight, and simmer slowly one hour. 
The gra\'y should be thickened with flour, a tablespoonful 
of flour wet in a little cold water being used to each cupful 
of broth. This is also well adapted to casserole cookery. 

NEW YORK, N. Y. 



SLICED LAMB WITH ONION SAUCE 

Cold sliced lamb Juice 1/2 lemon 

3 large onions I/2 teaspoonful salt 

^ tablespoonful Worcestershire 1 tablespoonful margarin 
sauce y2 teaspoonful curry-powder 

Speck pepper 

Slice onions and lay them in the bottom of a saucepan; 
add the lemon juice. Lay the cold lamb, cut in slices, on 
this bed of onions and cover the saucepan tightly. Cook 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 117 

one hour over a very slow fire. Then add the margarin rolled 
in flour, Worcestershire sauce, curiy-powder, and season- 
ing. Cook five minutes longer and serve. This recipe serves 

four. NEW YORK, N. Y. 



SOMERYILLE MEAT LOAF 

1 pound flank or round steak 1 egg 

1 cupful suet 2 tablespoonfuls horseradish 

2 small onions % teaspoonful dry mustard 

1 cupful soft bread-crumbs 2 tablespoonfuls minced green 

2 teaspoonfuls salt pepper 
Worcestershire sauce ^ cupful tomato catchup 

Chop meat, suet, and onion fine. Add bread-crumbs, egg 
slightly beaten, and all other ingredients except catchup. 
Pack into a greased bread-pan. Cover the top of the loaf 
with tomato catchup and bake one hour in a moderate oven. 
This loaf can be made with left-over meat and is delicious 
hot or cold. duluth, minn. 



SWISS STEAK WITH WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE 

3 pounds bottom round steak I/2 teaspoonful celery salt 

1 tablespoonful Worcestershire Small piece suet 

sauce 2 teaspoonfuls salt 

Flour 1/4 teaspoonful pepper 

^ teaspoonful mustard 

Wipe the steak carefully, dust on the salt and pepper, rub 
in as much flour as it will take up, at least a cupful, fry out 
the suet, add the mustard, and brown the steak in it on both 
sides. Almost cover with boiling water, boil rapidly for five 
minutes, then reduce the heat and simmer for three hours, or 
cook for three and a half hours in the fireless cooker. ]\Iore 
water may be added if necessary while it is cooking. Just 
before serving, add the celery salt and Worcestershire sauce 
to the gravy, which should be rich, thick, and very brown, 
and should not need additional flour. Chopped mushrooms 
may be added to the sauce if desired. Indianapolis, ind. 



118 Good Housekeeping's Book op 



THE WAY I FRY CHICKEN 

Chicken Butter 

Lard Milk 

Salt Flour 

Dress, disjoint, and salt the chicken, then drain it and flour 
each piece thoroughly. Melt enough lard in a large skillet 
a little more than to cover the bottom, and cook the chicken 
rapidly with the skillet covered, until light brown. Turn each 
piece, place bits of butter on each, replace the lid, and cook 
until it is a nice golden-brown; then place the chicken in a 
tightly covered pan and steam for two hours, or till ready to 
serve. Make a gravy in the pan in which the chicken was 
fried, using milk instead of water. middletown, ind. 

TO USE LEFT-OVER MUTTON 

Cold mutton Juice of I/2 lemon 

3 large onions % teaspoonful salt 

1/^ tablespoonful Worcestershire 1 tablespoonful butter 
sauce % teaspoonful curry-powder 

Speck pepper 

Slice onions and lay them in the bottom of a saucepan; 
add the lemon-juice. Lay the cold mutton, cut in slices, on 
this bed of onions and cover the saucepan tightly. Cook one 
hour over a very slow fire. Then add the butter rolled in 
flour, Worcestershire sauce, curry-powder, and seasoning. 
Cook five minutes longer and serve. Lawrence, mass. 

TRIPE A LA CREOLE 

1% pounds white honeycomb 6 peppercorns 

tripe 4 whole allspice 

2 tablespoonfuls fat 2^ teaspoonfuls salt 

2 small onions, sliced fine 1 teaspoonful sugar 

1 red pepper, chopped fine % teaspoonful pepper 

1 green pepper, chopped fine 1 quart stewed tomatoes 

1 small bit whole mace y^ teaspoonful baking-soda 

Wash the tripe in three waters, using the baking-soda in 
the last. Then boil the tripe until tender, about one and one- 



Recipes ai^d Household Discoveries 119 

half hours, and cut with scissors in very fine strips. Brown 
the onions in the fat. Add the peppers, spices, seasonings, 
and tomatoes. Then add the tripe and simmer about twenty 
Diinutes. Serve hot with boiled rice. new york, n. y. 



TRIPE OYSTERS 

L pound fresh tripe Pepper 

Salt 1 beaten egg 

Fine bread or cracker crumbs 2 tablespoonfuls cold water 

Clean honeycomb tripe very particularly and simmer it for 
[)ne hour in water to cover. Let it get cold, sprinkle with 
salt and pepper, and cut it in oblongs the size of an oyster. 
Dip these in fine crumbs, then in beaten egg to which the 
water has been added, then in crumbs again. Fry in very 
hot fat until brown. Serve with a border of cold slaw, or 
slices or points of lemon with finely chopped parsley sprinkled 
over them. concord, mass. 

t 
TRIPE ROLL 

rripe Vz pound cooked sausage-meat 

L pint rieed white potatoes 1 tablespoonful sausage or bacon 
V2 chopped onion fat 

L egg 4 teaspoonfuls salt 

Purchase one and one-fourth pounds honeycomb tripe. Trim 
to a rectangular shape. Save the remainder for scalloped 
tripe. Boil tripe until very tender and drain. Add three tea- 
spoonfuls salt five minutes before taking from the fire. Blend 
3ne and one-fourth cupfuls of potatoes, one teaspoonful salt, 
the meat, egg, and onion and spread on the honeycomb side 
3f the tripe. Roll, fasten with toothpicks. Spread the remain- 
ing potatoes on top and brush the entire roll with the sausa-ge 
Pat. Place in a covered baking-dish about the size of the roll 
and bake in a moderate oven one-half hour. Remove cover 
and quickly brown the top. Place on a hot platter and let 
stand on the stove-shelf five minutes before serving. Slice 
wdth a sharp knife. Cooked, well-seasoned, chopped meat 
may be used in place of the sausage. marlboro, mass. 



Pies 



APPLE-LEMON PIE 

2 cupfuls chopped apples 2 eggs well beaten 

1/2 cupful ground soda crackers 2 tablespoonfuls melted butter 
Grated rind and juice 2 lemons 1% cupfuls sugar 

Pastry 

Mix together the apples, crackers, lemons, eggs, butter, and 
sugar in the order given. Then use as a filling for pies made 
with double crusts, baking for about thirty minutes. This 
makes two small pies or one large one. trinidad, colo. 



APPLE PIE WITH CREAM CHEESE 

1 cupful whipped cream ^ small cream cheese 
Pastry Apple sauce 

Line a deep pie-plate with pastry and fill with tart, smooth 
apple sauce. Bake without a top crust and when cold cover 
with the whipped cream to which you have added the cream 
cheese pressed through a ricer. If adept with the pastry- 
tubes, this cream may be arranged in some fanciful form, 
which wiU add greatly to the attractiveness of the pie. 

PHILADELPHIA, PA. 

BANBURY TARTS 

2 cupfuls raisins chopped 2 cupfuls water 
2 lemons 2 cupfuls sugar 
2 tablespoonfuls flour Flaky pastry 

Slice the lemons, remove the seeds, and cook the lemons 
tiU tender in the water in a double-boiler; then put them 

120 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 121 

through the food-chopper. Put the raisins and lemons in 
the water in which the lemons were cooked, add the sugar, 
and thicken with the flour dissolved in a little cold water. 
Keep at least twenty-four hours before using. (If stored in 
a glass jar, it will keep for several days.) In making the 
tarts, cut the paste into rounds with a large biscuit-cutter, 
put on a teaspoonful of filling, fold over like a turnover, 
pinch together, and bake. They will keep in a tin box for a 
long time. ansonia, conn. 



BLACK-CAP RASPBERRY PIE 

3 to 4 cupfuls blaek-cap rasp- Yi teaspoonful cinnamon, if de- 
berries sired 
% cupful sugar 2 tablespoonfuls fine cracker- 

2 tablespoonfuls butter crumbs 

Flaky pastry 

Line a deep pie-plate with pastry and sprinkle on one 
tablespoonful of the crumbs, half the butter, cut in bits, and 
part of the sugar, mixed with the cinnamon, if the latter is 
used. Fill the plate full of berries and finish with the re- 
mainder of the butter, crumbs and sugar. ^Moisten the lower 
crust with cold water, set on the top crust, press the edges 
firmly together, and bind with a strip of cheese cloth, wet in 
cold water to prevent the escape of juices. Bake half an 
hour in a moderate oven. Canned berries may be substi- 
tuted, winsted, conn- 

BUTTER-SCOTCH PIE I 

3 tablespoonfuls butter 1 cupful brown sugar 
1^ cupfuls scalded milk 1 egg 

1 tablespoonful corn-starch 1 tablespoonful powdered sugar 

Pastry Few drops of vanilla 

Line a deep pan with pastry and fill with a mixture made as 
follows : Melt together the butter and the brown sugar. Cook 
till a rich brown, then add the scalded milk. Simmer for a 
few minutes, or until the sugar is dissolved, and whip in the 
yolk of the egg beaten to a cream with the corn-starch. Bake 
till the custard is set and spread with a meringue made of 



122 Good Housekeeping's Book of 

the egg-white whipped with the powdered sugar. Flavor 
both pie and meringue with a few drops of vanilla. 

PHILADELPHIA, PA. 

BUTTER-SCOTCH PIE II 

1 cupful brown sugar 2 tablespoonfuls cold water 

1 cupful hot water 1 tablespoonful butter 

2 tablespoonfuls flour 3 eggs 

1 tablespoonful granulated sugar Few grains salt 

t laky pastry 

Bake a shell of flaky pastry. In the meantime make a fill- 
ing as foUows: Combine the brown sugar and hot water, 
bring to the boiling-point, and thicken with the flour and salt 
mixed with the cold water ; beat in the butter and then pour 
the mixture onto the egg-yolks well beaten. Pour this into the 
shell, top with a meringue made of the egg-whites and the 
remaining sugar, and let the pie stand in a slow oven for 
fifteen minutes to finish cooking. hyannis, mass. 

CHELSEA PIES 
(Individual) 

2 tablespoonfuls currants or 1 teaspoonful sugar 
seedless raisins Vi teaspoonful butter 

Pastry 

Cut rounds about the size of a smaU saucer from plain pie- 
crust. In the middle of each put the currants or seedless 
raisins, sugar, and butter. Wet the edges and gather up like 
a bag. Pinch the edges together, turn over, and roll gently 
with a rolling-pin till the currants begin to prick through on 
the top side. Bake in a hot oven and serve either warm or 

cold. EAU CLAIRE, VHS. 

COCOA MERINGUE PIE 

1/2 cupful cocoa y^ teaspoonful salt 

2 tablespoonfuls corn-starch 2 eggs 

1 pint boiling milk 1/2 teaspoonful vanilla 

^ cupful sugar Pastry-shell 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 123 

Mix thoroughly the cocoa, sugar, corn-starch, salt and boil- 
ing milk. Cook in a double-boiler till thick, stirring all the 
time. Remove from the fire and add the yolks of the eggs 
well beaten, then cook a few minutes longer. Flavor with 
vanilla, and turn into a pre-^dously baked pastry-shell. Cover 
with a meringue and brown delicately. Serve very cold. 

PHILADELPHIA, PA. 



LEMON APPLE PIE 

2 cupfuls chopped apples 1 egg well beaten 

1 cupful sugar Juice and grated rind 1 lemon 

% cupful water % cupful rolled crackers 

Plain pastry 

Mix all ingredients together and pour into a pie plate lined 
with pastry. Cover with a top crust, and bake in a hot oven. 

GREENWICH, CONN. 



LEMON PIE 

2 eggs 1 tablespoonful butter 

1 lemon % teaspoonful salt 

1 cupful sugar 1 cupful milk 

2 tablespoonfuls flour Flaky pastry 

Beat the egg-yolks until thick. Add the juice and grated 
rind of the lemon and the sugar mixed thoroughly with the 
flour and salt. Blend together well and add the milk and 
the butter melted. Fold in the egg-whites beaten until they 
are stiff and dry. Pour into a pie plate lined with flaky pas- 
try. Bake about one-half hour. Have the oven hot enough 
at first to set the rim, then reduce the heat, los angeles, cal. 



LOS ANGELES PIE 

1 cupful orange juice 21/2 tablespoonfuls flour 

2 eggs 11/2 teaspoonfuls butter 

% cupful granvdated sugar 6 tablespoonfuls sugar for mer- 

y^ teaspoonful salt ingue 

14 cupful chopped nuts Flaky pastry 



124 Good Housekeeping's Book op 

Bake in a pastry-shell on an inverted pie-tin, or glass pie- 
plate not inverted. While baking prepare the filling. Mix 
together the sugar and flour, add the butter, the egg-yolks, 
and, slowly, the orange juice. Cook over hot water till thick ; 
cool and add the chopped nuts. Pour this mixture into the 
pastry shell, and top with a meringue using the egg-whites 
and sugar, and flavored with a few drops of lemon or orange 
extract. Brown in an oven heated to 300°F. for fifteen min- 
utes. This makes a small pie. ST. Petersburg, fla. 



MARIA'S LEMON PIE 

1 slice baker's bread, about 1^ 1 cupful sugar 

inches thick and 3I/2 inches Juice and grated rind 1 lemon 

square 2 eggs 

3 tablespoonfuls butter l^/^ teaspoonfuls corn-starch 

1 cupful boiling water IV2 tablespoonfuls powdered 

Flaky pastry sugar 

Pour the boiling water over the bread and let stand until 
the bread is thoroughly soft. Add butter at the same time. 
Turn in the sugar mixed with the corn-starch and beat thor- 
oughly, so that the bread will be completely broken up. Add 
the lemon and the egg-yolks, slightly beaten. Pour into a 
pan lined with pastry and bake about twenty minutes. Cover 
with a meringue made of the egg-whites and one and one- 
half tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. Return to the oven, 
and brown slowly for ten minutes longer, being careful not 
to cool too quickly. Jamaica, plain, mass. 



MINCE PIE 

2 eupfuls chopped meat 1 cupful strong coffee 

4 eupfuls finely chopped tart 1 tablespoonful cinnamon 

apples 1 tablespoonful ground cloves 

1 cupful finely chopped citron 1 tablespoonful nutmeg 

2 eupfuls chopped raisins 1 cupful meat stock 
2 eupfuls currants Pastry 

2 teaspoonfuls salt 1 tablespoonful sugar 

2 eupfuls sugar 1 tablespoonful cream 

1 cupful chopped suet, butter or 2 teaspoonfuls butter 

margarin Few whole seeded raisins 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 125 

Purchase clear, lean beef and boil until tender, cool in the 
liquor, put through the chopper, and measure out two cup- 
fuls. Add the apples, raisins, currants, citron, salt, suet, 
butter or margarin, sugar, coffee, ground cloves, cinnamon, 
nutmeg and the meat stock. Simmer all this together for 
about one hour, then seal hot in bottles. It will make about 
five pints. "When making the pie, line a deep plate with crust, 
fill with mincemeat, using one quart, and put over the top 
the cream, sugar, a few whole seeded raisins, and the butter 
dotted over the top. Next put on the top crust, score, and 
bake until the crusts are brown. To give it full opportunity 
to become blended this mincemeat should be made well before- 
hand. LAWRENCE, MASS. 

MOCK CHERRY PIE 

2 cupfuls cranberries 1 cupful boiling water 

2 eupfuls sugar 1 tablespoonful flour 

2 cupfuls raisins 1 teaspoonful butter 

Pastry 2 teaspoonfuls vanilla 

Cut cranberries in halves and chop the raisins. Mix to- 
gether and cook for half an hour. Cool, pour into pie-plates 
lined with pastry, form lattice tops of thin strips of paste, 
and bake from fifteen to twenty minutes in a quick oven. 
The flour can be omitted and the whole cooked to the con- 
sistency of marmalade; this makes a good sandwich filling. 

HAMPTON, VA. 



ONE CRUST PEACH PIE 

6 medium-sized peaches H cupful flour 

^ cupful butter 4 tablespoonfuls water 

1 cupful sugar Few grains nutmeg 

Flaky pastry 

Line a deep pie-plate with pastry, sprinkle the bottom with 
one-half of a crumb-like mixture made by rubbing together 
the butter, sugar, and flour. Lay on this the halved peaches, 
cut-side down, add the nutmeg and water, sprinkle on the 
remaining crumbs, and bake thirty minutes in a quick oven. 

TRENTON, N. J. 



126 Good Housekeeping's Book op 

1 ORANGE PIE 

3 eggs 1 tablespoonful orange juice 

y^ cupful sugar 1 tablespoonful butter 

1 orange 3 tablespoonfuls powdered sugar 

^2 lemon Pastry 

Whip the yolks of the eggs with the sugar, add the juice 
and rind of orange, the juice and rind of the lemon, and the 
butter. Mix thoroughly and place in a pastry-lined pan to 
bake. When done cover with a meringue made of the egg- 
whites, powdered sugar and the orange juice. 

PHILADELPHIA, PA. 



PLAIN SQUASH PIE 

1 cupful sifted squash ^ cupful brown sugar 

y-2, teaspoonful salt 1 teaspoonf ul flour 

y^ teaspoonful ginger 1 e.^^ 

y4 teaspoonful nutmeg 2 cupfuls milk 

Pastry 

Place the squash in a bowl ; stir into this the brown sugar, 
salt, flour, ginger and nutmeg. Add the egg, slightly beaten, 
and the milk. Stir well together and pour into a plate lined 
with pastry having a fluted edge. Bake for ten minutes in 
a quick oven to set the rim, and then reduce the heat and 
bake until the filling is firm. This same mixture may be 
poured into a buttered baking-dish and served as a pudding, 
if preferred. redding, conn. 



PUMPKIN PIE 

2 cupfuls canned pumpkin 1 tablespoonful molasses 

2 eggs 1 teaspoonful salt 

1 tablespoonful flour 1 teaspoonful ginger 

114 cupfuls milk 14 cupful sugar 

% teaspoonful cinnamon Speck nutmeg 

Pastry 

Add flour to well-beaten eggs and mix all ingredients thor- 
oughly. Pour into pie-plates filled with pastry having a well- 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 127 

fluted edge. This makes one very large thick pie or two 
smaller ones. Squash may be substituted in place of pumpkin 
if desired. east orange, n. j. 



SOUE CREAM PIE 

1 cupful sour cream ^ teaspoonful salt 
y^ cupful sugar % cupful raisins 

2 egg-yolks 2 ^g^ whites 

y^ teaspoonful cinnamon 6 tablespoonfuls sugar 

y^ teaspoonful cloves Pastry 

Combine the cream and the half cupful of sugar ; add the 
6gg yolks well beaten, the «pices, the salt, and the raisins 
chopped finely. Line a small pie plate with pastry and fill 
with the mixture. Bake in a hot oven long enough to set the 
pastry, and reduce the heat to complete the baking until the 
custard mixture is set. Remove from the oven and spread 
with a meringue made of the whites stiffly beaten and the 
sugar added. Brown in a slow oven. Clinton, minn. 



SOUR CREAM PIE WITH DATES 

Plain pastry % teaspoonful salt 

1 cupful chopped dates 1 cupful sugar 

1 cupful sour cream 1 Qgz 

1 teaspoonful flour 

Beat the ^%g well and add to it the sugar and flour mixed 
together; add the cream, dates, and salt. Bake between two 
crusts. This makes enough for one small pie. 

HUTCHINSON, KAN. 



Salads 



ASPARAGUS LUNCHEON SALAD 

2 cupfuls cooked asparagus. 2 hard-cooked eggs 

diced Lettuce leaves or cress 

2 cupfuls shredded lettuce Scant teaspoonful vinegar 
1 tablespoonful olive-oil Boiled salad dressing 

Mix together the asparagus and shredded lettuce with the 
olive-oil and the vinegar. Add boiled dressing to moisten 
thoroughly, chill, arrange in nests of salad green, and garnish 
with the hard-cooked eggs and additional dressing. 

NEW YORK, N. Y. 

BANANA AND CELERY SALAD 

6 small bananas 6 pieces celery 

6 tablespoonfuls peanut butter Lettuce 

% cupful mayonnaise 

Stuff the celerj'- with the peanut butter and then cut into 
small pieces. Arrange on beds of lettuce with the bananas 
either sliced or diced. Serve with mayonnaise dressing. 
Whipped cream may be added to the dressing, if desired. 

FALL EIVEB, MASS. 

BIRD'S NEST SALAD 

3 large tomatoes 1/2 teaspoonful powdered sage 
About 1 cupful cottage cheese Lettuce leaves or water-cress 
Salt Mayonnaise dressing 

Cut the tomatoes in halves and scoop out slightly. Flavor 
the cottage cheese with the sage and salt, if needed. Then 

128 



Kecipes and Household Discoveries 129 

make into balls the size of large marbles. Put three balls 
into each tomato half and arrange the tomato on crisp white 
lettuce leaves, or surround with the delicate leaves of water- 
cress. Serve mayonnaise with this salad. concord, mass. 



BUTTEKFLY SALAD, INDIVIDUAL 

1 slice canned pineapple % Malaga or Tokay grapes 

1 slice orange Strips of pimiento 

1 slice apple, unpared Lettuce 

Chopped nuts if desired 

Cut the pineapple-slice in half and place the round edges 
together on the plate on which it is to be served. Over this 
fit the slice of apple, with the core removed but the skin left 
on. On top of this fit the orange-slice, which has been al- 
lowed to stand with a little sugar for at least fifteen minutes. 
Form the butterfl}' 's body from the grape and a strip of pimi- 
ento and the feelers of pimiento. Garnish with lettuce and 
sprinkle with nut-meats if desired. Mayonnaise, or Italian 
meringue should be passed. calumet, mich. 



CANDLESTICK SALAD 

6 slices pineapple 1 green pepper 

3 bananas 6 Maraschino cherries 

1 head lettuce Fruit salad dressing 

Coconut 

For each serving, place one slice of pineapple, as the base 
of the candlestick on a leaf of lettuce. Insert one-half a 
banana cut crosswise in the cavity of the slice of pineapple, 
in an upright position. In the side of the banana stick a 
curved strip of green pepper cut about one-eighth inch wide 
to simulate the handle, and on top of the banana place a 
maraschino cherry or a strawberry when in season, keeping it 
in position with a toothpick. Stick a bit of shredded coco- 
nut in the cherry for a wick. Surround the lettuce leaf at 
the base of the candlestick with fruit salad dressing. Serve. 



130 Good HousEKEEPrNa'& Book of 



CARROT AND APPLE SALAD 

1 cupful prepared apple 1 cupful prepared carrot 

1/2 cupful mayonnaise Lettuce 

Cut the apple into very thin slices, arrange on lettuce, 
spread with mayonnaise, and sprinkle ground carrot on top. 
Place more dressing in center. san mateo, cal. 



CLUB SALAD 

1^ cupfuls shredded cold Mayo/inaise 

chicken Lettuce 

12 slices fried bacon, diced Toast Points 

3 tomatoes Parsley 

Arrange individually on salad plates; allow two or three 
lettuce-leaves to each person, place on them the tomatoes, 
peeled and sliced, then the fried bacon, and a spoonful of 
mayonnaise, and top with the chicken, more mayonnaise, and 
a sprig of parsley. Four or six tiny buttered toast points may 
be used to garnish each salad, being placed spoke-fashion 
on the plates. habrisbubg, pa. 

COMBINATION SALAD 

1 cupful celery, cut fine Lettuce 

2 cupfuls apple, cut fine 1 tablespoonful peanut butter 
J^ cupful mayonnaise Raisins 

Mix together the celery, apple, peanut butter, and mayon- 
naise; arrange on leaves of lettuce. Place on top of each 
serving five or six large, seeded raisins. Serve with more 
mayonnaise, if desired. crafton, pa. 

COTTAGE CHEESE SALAD 

1 pound fresh cottage cheese 2 teaspoonfuls salt 

11/2 cupfuls sour cream ^A teaspoonful pepper 

1 bunch button radishes Few grains cayenne pepper 

1 medium-sized cucumber Paprika 

1 bunch green onions Lettuce 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 131 

Slice the radishes without paring them. Pare the eucum.- 
ber and cut in dice. Use the white and very pale green por- 
tions of the onions, peel, and cut in slices. Toss the vege- 
tables lightly together to mix them. Add the seasonings to 
the cheese and then add the cream, stirring it in well. Then 
add the radishes, cucumber, and onions to the cheese mix- 
ture. Chill thoroughly and serve on crisp leaves of lettuce; 
sprinkle with paprika. This recipe will serve eight gener- 
ously. It is an excellent luncheon salad. Chicago, iLiL. 



COTTAGE SALAD 

% pound well-seasoned cottage 24 stuffed olives 

cheese 1 cupful boiled dressing 

3 large tomatoes Lettuce 

6 hard-cooked eg'gs 

Chop the olives fine, mix with the cheese, and form into balls 
about the size of a walnut. Upon each individual plate ar- 
range a bed of shredded lettuce and a large slice of tomato. 
Place three cheese balls on each slice of tomato and top with 
the j^olk of a hard-cooked egg, thus forming a little pyramid. 
Sprinkle the chopped egg-white over the salad and pass the 
dressing after the salad is served. yankton", s. dak. 



CUCUMBER AND PINEAPPLE JELLY SALAD 

2 tablespoonfuls granulated gel- V2 teaspoonful salt 

atin 1 cupful diced cucumber 

^ cupful cold water 1 cupful canned, shredded pine- 
1 cupful hot water apple 

1/2 cupful vinegar Lettuce 

Juice 14 lemon % cupful mayonnaise 

^4 cupful sugar %, cupful cream, whipped 

Soak the gelatin in the cold water five minutes, add the hot 
water, and stir until dissolved. Add the sugar, salt, vinegar, 
and lemon juice. When the mixture has begun to set, stir in 
the cucumber and pineapple and pour into wet, individual 
molds. Serve, when stiffened, on crisp lettuce garnished with 
mayonnaise dressing to which the whipped cream has been 



132 Good Housekeeping's Book of 

added ; sprinkle with paprika. This jelly may be colored with 
green vegetable coloring, if desired. Minneapolis, minn. 

CUCmiBER SALAD WITH SALMON DRESSING 

1 head lettuce 1 cupful salmon 

2 cucumbers Salt and pepi^er 

1 onion Boiled salad dressins: 

Break apart, wash, and dry the lettuce-leaves, pare the cu- 
cumbers, and chill. For individual service, make a bed of 
the lettuce-leaves on the plates and upon them place thin 
slices of cucumber, finely minced onion, salt, and pepper. Put 
salmon into a cold bowl, shred and remove bones : add to it, 
until right consistency to pour, a sour, highly seasoned boiled 
dressing. Beat thoroughly and place over lettuce and cu- 
cumbers. BUCYEUS, o. 



DATE SALAD 

1 cupful dates 1 cupful diced celery 

yi cupful ground American 1 cupful diced apples 

cheese 1 tablespoonful lemon juice 

3 tablespoonfuls ground walnut- Boiled salad dressing 

meats Lettuce 

Mix together the cheese and nuts, and stuff the dates, al- 
lowing them to stand several hours. Then slice them, 
sprinkle the apples with lemon juice as soon as cut, add the 
dates with the celery, and mix all thoroughly with boiled 
salad dressing to which has been added an equal quantity of 
sweet or sour whipped cream. Serve in nests of lettuce. 

AUGUSTA, KAN. 



ENDIVE GRAPEFRUIT SALAD 

6 sprigs imported endive 2 ounces crumbled Roquefort 

Scooped out pulp li/o grapefruit cheese 

French dressing 

"Wash and dry the endive, and arrange on individual plates. 
Heap the grapefruit at the end of the stalks, and sprinkle it 



Eecipes and Household Discoveries 133 

with the cheese-crumbs. Pour French dressing over all. If 
necessary, romaine may be substituted for the endive. 

BUFFALO, N. Y. 



FRUIT SALAD WITH PINEAPPLE DRESSINQ 

6 halved, peeled fresh pears or 1 cupful halved seeded Malaga 

halves of canned pears grapes 

Lettuce Pineapple dressing 

Arrange the pears on nests of lettuce-leaves with the grapes 
at the side and pour pineapple dressing over them. 

PITTSFIELD, MASS. 

INDIVIDUAL SARDINE AND TOMATO SALAD 

3 sardines 1 sprig parsley 

1 medium-sized tomato 1 teaspoonful chopped green 

2 olives pepper or pimiento 
14 teaspoonful chopped onion Y^ teaspoonful sugar 

2 teaspoonfuls chopped celery or 2 teaspoonfuls thick mayonnaise 
cabbage Shredded lettuce 

Additional mayonnaise 

Peel the tomato, cut off the top, scoop out the inside, and 
mix with one of the olives, chopped, the onion, celery, pepper, 
sugar, and mayonnaise. Return to tomato, and set it in a 
nest of shredded lettuce. Place a spoonful of mayonnaise 
on the top, and sprinkle with the parsley, minced. Surmount 
with the other olive, and lean three sardines against the to- 
mato to give a tent-like appearance. new york, n. y. 

ITALIAN EGG SALAD 

4 hard-cooked eggs Lettuce 

1 cupful cooked dandelion % teaspoonful salt 

greens Vs teaspoonful pepper 

1 small cream or Neufehatel ^ cupful well-seasoned 
cheese French dressing 

^ cupful mayonnaise dressing 

Chop the eggs and greens very fine, separately. Mix them 
together, adding the cheese, salt, pepper, and suflBcient French 



134 Good Housekeeping's Book of 

dressing to make the right consistency. Chill, form into balls, 
and lay on a bed of lettuce. Pour any remaining French 
dressing over them and garnish with mayonnaise. 

LOS ANGELES, CAL. 

LETTUCE, CLUB STYLE 

14 cupful mayonnaise dressing, 2 hard-cooked eggs, chopped 

stiff Crescents of hot toasted, buttered 

2 tablespoonfuls chili sauce bread 

1 solid head lettuce 

Beat the chili sauce into the mayonnaise. Wash the let- 
tuce thoroughly, dry, and arrange in the shape of a head on 
a large round platter or in a bowl. Pour the dressing in and 
around the leaves, sprinkle with the eggs chopped fine, and 
garnish with the hot toast. mountain view, okla. 



LETTUCE WITH ROQUEFORT DRESSING 

1 solid head lettuce Vs teaspoonful pepper 

% teaspoonful salt % cupful Roquefort cheese 

3 tablespoonfuls olive-oil 1 tablespoonful vinegar 

Wash the lettuce carefully without breaking the head apart, 
removing only the tough outer leaves. Hold it firmly and cut 
into four or six portions according to the size of the head and 
the number of people to be served. Crisp thoroughly. Mix 
together the seasonings and vinegar, and beat in the olive- 
oil. Blend in the cheese slowly, and pour at once over the let- 
tuce, new YORK, n. y. 



MIXED VEGETABLE AND EGG SALAD 

1 cupful shredded string-beans Watercress 
1 cupful peas Lettuce-heart 

1 cupful shredded cucumber 6 hard-cooked eggs 

14 cupful sliced radishes Radish-roses 

Parsley 

Mix together the peas, beans, cucumber, and sliced rad- 
ishes and let stand in a cold place for thirty minutes to 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 135 

marinate in French dressing. Halve the hard-cooked eggs 
lengthwise, cut off the lower ends so that they will stand up- 
right, and dip each one in a little tart lemon jelly; have the 
salad plate very cold and arrange these egg-halves in a cir- 
cle. They should stick at once if the jelly mixture contains 
enough gelatin. Fill in with the vegetable mixture, top with 
a lettuce-heart, and garnish with parsley and radish-roses. 
Pass mayonnaise dressing. new york, n. y. 



MOLDED BEET SALAD 

2 cupfuls tiny beets 2 tablespoonfuls grated horse- 

2 tablespoonfuls vinegar radish 

% cupful hot water 1^^ tablespoonfuls granulated 

1 teaspoonful salt gelatin 

1 teaspoonful sugar % cupful cold water 

1 head lettuce % cupful maj'onnaise 

Scrub the beets thoroughly and boil until tender; rub off 
the skin. Add the vinegar, salt, sugar, horseradish, and hot 
water. Let get thoroughly heated through, and then add the 
gelatin which has been softened in the cold water. Pour 
into a shallow pan which has been previously wet with cold 
water. Set away to chill, cut in cubes, and serve on lettuce 
or cress with mayonnaise. This recipe will serve at least 
eight. Large beets may be used and cut into cubes about 
an inch in diameter after cooking. Milwaukee, wis. 



MOLDED CHEESE SALAD 

V2 cupful heavy cream % cupful gTated cheese 

2 tablespoonfuls granulated gel- ^ cupful chopped pimientos 
atin Lettuce 

1/^ cupful boiling water Mayonnaise or any salad dress- 

3 drops tabasco sauce ing 

^ teaspoonful mustard H teaspoonful salt 

Soak the gelatin in one-fourth cupful of cold water for 
five minutes, then add the boiling water. Stir until dissolved 
and let cool. When just beginning to set, add the tabasco 
sauce, mustard, salt, cheese, and pimientoes. Beat the cream 



136 Good Housekeeping's Book of 

stiff, fold in the gelatin mixture carefully, and pour all into 
a small baking-powder can, which has been wet wdth cold 
water, to mold. When stiff, turn out, slice, and serve on 
lettuce with any preferred salad dressing, esseix falls, n. j. 



ORANGE AND DATE SALAD 

1 box dates (14 ounces) 1 cake pimiento cheese 

2 oranges y^ cupful chopped walnuts 
Watercress French dressing 

Lemon or orange juice 

Stuff dates with the nuts mixed with the cheese, roll in 
either lemon or orange juice; peel oranges and take all the 
skin off, pull apart, and place alternately with dates on water- 
cress. Serve with French dressing. Stewed prunes and cel- 
ery may be used in place of the dates and nuts for variety. 

TUNKHANNOCK, PA. 



ORANGE AND ONION SALAD 

2 oranges Vi Spanish onion 

Lettuce French dressing 

Peel and slice oranges; slice onion and mix. Arrange on 
lettuce leaves and serve with French dressing. This will 
serve four generously if the oranges are large. 

MONTREAL, CAN„ 



OYSTER SALAD 

12 oysters 3 teaspoonfuls chopped parsley 

1 head lettuce 1 small bunch celery 

3 teaspoonfuls lemon juice Mayonnaise dressing 

Prepare the oysters. Cook in their own juice until the 
edges curl; drain and chill. Lay two oysters on white let- 
tuce leaves on each plate for individual servings, sprinkle 
each with one-half teaspoonful of lemon juice and very finely 
chopped parsley and surround with a ring made of small, 
inch-long julienne strips of white celery. Put a whirl of 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 137 

mayonnaise in the middle of each and serve with thin brown 
bread sandwiches. concord, mass. 



PEANUT-RICE SALAD 

3 tablespoonfuls rice 1 cupful orange juice 

Boiling salted water Cream-cheese balls 

% cupful finely chopped pea- Lettuce 
nuts French dressing 

Wash rice; cook ten minutes in boiling salted water. 
Drain, cover with orange juice, and cook in double boiler 
until tender. Cool, mix (using a fork) with the peanuts, 
sprinkle with salt. Arrange with small balls of cream cheese 
on lettuce-leaves, and serve with French dressing. 

STOCKTON, CAL. 

PECAN SALAD 

1 tablespoonful granulated gela- 4 tablespoonfuls sugar 
tin 12 whole pecan meats 

2 tablespoonfuls cold water i/2 cupful diced celery 
1 cupful boiling water 12 stuffed olives 

% cupful grapefruit juice Lettuce 

Mayonnaise 

Soak gelatin in cold water for five minutes and dissolve it 
with the sugar in the boiling water. Add the grapefruit 
juice ; fill individual molds half full ; place on top a layer of 
sliced olives with a whole pecan meat in the center. Let 
stand until firm. Over this pour more of the jelly mixture 
which has begun to set, and sprinkle the celery on top. Let 
harden. Turn out on beds of lettuce. Garnish with mayon- 
naise and a whole pecan meat for each salad, danville, pa. 



PINEAPPLE SALAD WITH GOLDEN DRESSING 

6 slices canned pineapple Cream or Neufchatel cheese 

6 large Maraschino cherries Lettuce-hearts 

Arrange the salad individually ; place a slice of pineapple 
on each nest of lettuce-leaves, sprinkle with the cheese which 



138 Good Housekeeping's Book op 

has been put through a potato-ricer, and fill the holes in the 
pineapple slices with cherries. Pass golden dressing and 
cheese fingers. This salad is particularly nice for an after- 
club luncheon, or for dessert for luncheon, dinner, or sup- 
per. JAMAICA PLAIN, MASS. 



POTATO AND CRAB SALAD IN PEPPER CASES 

1 can or 1 cupful crab meat 3 large, sweet, green peppers 

2 cupfuls diced cold boiled po- % cupful boiled salad dressing 
tatoes or mayonnaise 

Juice of 1/2 lemon Parsley 

To make the pepper cases cut the peppers in halves length- 
wise; remove all seeds and white fibrous portions. Immerse 
in boiling water and boil for five minutes; plunge into cold 
water, "When cool enough to handle, peel off the thin, paper- 
like skin. Cover with cold water and set in a cold place for 
one hour to crisp. This procedure renders the pepper more 
digestible and also just soft enough to be easily eaten with 
the rest of the salad. Mix the crab meat and potatoes; let 
stand a few minutes before serving, with the lemon juice 
sprinkled over them. Mix with the dressing and serve in 
the boat-shaped eases on individual plates ; garnish each plate 
with a large sprig of parsley or shredded lettuce. 

YANKTON, S. DAK. 



SUMMER SALAD 

1 large crown summer squash 1 cupful chilled flaked tuna fish 

1 cupful of cold cooked string- 2 tomatoes 

beans, pea.s, or diced carrots 2 hard-cooked eggs 

1 cupful chopped celery French dressing 

1 minced green pepper Mayonnaise dressing 

1 head lettuce 

Pare th? squash, and boil or steam gently until tender, then 
scoop out the seeds and center, and while still warm cover 
with French dressing and allow it to marinate until thor- 
oughly chilled. Then lightly mix together the fish, celery, 
string-beans, and green pepper, and moisten with French 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 



139 



dressing. Fill the squash with this mixture and place on a 
bed of lettuce. Lay the sliced tomatoes and hard-cooked 
eggs alternately and overlapping around the edge, and gar- 
nish the whole with mayonnaise, parsley, or chicory. Finely- 
shredded, crisped lettuce or cabbage may be substituted for 
the celerj'. new york, n. y. 



SUPPER SALAD 



1 cupful cooked chopped liver 
1 cupful cottage cheese 
1 small can pimientos 
About 1 cupful mayonnaise 
dressing: 



Lettuce 

1 teaspoonful salt 

Dash of onion salt, celery salt, 

and caj^enne pepper 
Paprika 



Put liver through the food-chopper, add cottage cheese and 
mix well with fork ; add seasonings and two tablespoonfuls of 
dressing to bind. Arrange lettuce on plates, place half a 
pimiento on the lettuce ; add the salad mixture shaped in ovals, 
using two teaspoons; garnish with mayonnaise and paprika. 

STOCKTON, CAL. 



TANGO SALAD 



3 ripe juicy pears 

Cream or Roquefort cheese 

Lettuce 

% cupful mayonnaise 

^ cupful olive-oil 

1 teaspoonful vinegar 



% teaspoonful mustard 
y^ teaspoonful paprika 
^ cupful chili sauce 
Pimientos 
Lemon juice 



Pare, halve, and core the pears; squeeze lemon juice over 
them to keep them from discoloring. Place a ball of cream 
cheese or a few cubes of Roquefort cheese in the cavity of 
each half pear. Set these on heart-leaves of lettuce and pour 
the dressing over them. 

For dressing : Mix together the olive-oil, vinegar, salt, mus- 
tard, paprika, and chili sauce ; beat and blend well, then grad- 
ually beat this mixture into the mayonnaise. Garnish the 
salad and dressing generously with julienne strips of pimien- 
tos. Upon opening a can of pimientos, rinse them in cold 



140 Good Housekeeping's Book of 

water, and dry on cloth, then cut with scissors into strips. 
Large pears canned in halves may be used in this salad. 
Remove from can and drain well. Stockton, cal. 

TOMATO SLAW 

1 small head cauliflower 1 teaspoonful mustard 

2 tomatoes 1 teaspoonful sugar 

1 green pepper i/^ teaspoonful pepper 
Yolk of 1 egg 1 teaspoonful oil 

14 cupful vinegar 1 tablespoonful cream 

2 teaspoonfuls salt 

Boil the cauliflower, broken into small pieces until tender. 
Slice the tomatoes thin and cut the peppers into shreds. Set 
in the refrigerator to cool. Combine the oil and seasonings, 
and place over fire until heated throughout. Then add the 
beaten egg-yolk and cook until thick. Allow to cool, and add 
the cream. Just before serving, arrange cauliflower around 
each slice of tomato, placing the shredded pepper across the 
tomato in latticework fashion. Allow one tablespoonful of 
the dressing to each ser%ing. Seattle, wash. 

WASHINGTON SALMON SALAD 

iy2 cupfuls flaked cold salmon 1 small onion, minced 

% cupful finely cut celery 2 medium-sized tomatoes 

2 tablespoonfuls chopped green Salt and pepper to taste 
pepper Mayonnaise 

Lettuce 

Mix together the salmon, celery, pepper, and onion, add 
maj'onnaise to moisten, and season to taste with salt and 
pepper. Peel the tomatoes and either cut them in dice and 
mix them with the salad or slice them and use as a garnish. 
Arrange on a bed of lettuce-leaves and garnish with a little 
extra mayonnaise. Seattle, wash. 

YELLOW-TOMATO AND CHESTNUT SALAD 

12 yellow tomatoes French dressing 

% cupful diced celery Mayonnaise 

% cupful sliced chestnuts Cress 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 141 

Peel tomatoes after dipping in scalding water, cut ia 
halves, and let stand in French dressing for thirty minutes. 
Crisp the celery in cold, salted water and blanch the chest- 
nuts. To do this, put them on to cook in cold water, bring 
to boiling-point, boil five minutes, then remove shells and skin, 
and slice. Mix together the chestnuts and celery, and add a 
little mayonnaise. Form nests of cress on individual plates, 
lay on the tomatoes in the shape of Maltese crosses, and place 
a spoonful of the chestnut-mixture in the center of each serv- 
ing. Pour over the dressing which has been drained from 
the tomatoes, and serve with cream-cheese sandwiches. 

WORCESTER, MASS. 



Salad Dressings 



BLOATER-PASTE SALAD DRESSING 

1 teaspoonful English bloater V4 teaspoonful paprika 

paste 1 tablespoonful capers 

3 tablespoonfuls olive-oil % teaspoonful chopped chives 

1 tablespoonful vinegar ^2 teaspoonful chopped parsley 

y^ teaspoonful salt Few drops Worcestershire sauce 

Vs teaspoonful pepper ^ teaspoonful mustard 

Work the bloater paste and seasoning together; add the 
Worcestershire sauce, the olive-oil, and vinegar. Mix thor- 
oughly and then add the capers, chives, and parsley. Pour 
over crisp lettuce-leaves. palo alto, cal. 



BOILED MAYONNAISE 

3 egg-yolks 3 tablespoonfuls flour 
1 cupful olive-oil %, cupful vinegar 

1 cupful boiling water 1 teaspoonful salt 

Ys teaspoonful pepper 

Cream together the flour and two tablespoonfuls of the oil. 
Combine the vinegar and water, and pour slowly onto the 
flour and oil, as in making any sauce. Season and boil tiU 
thick. Remove from heat and beat in the egg-A<^!!:s, which 
have been barely stirred till creamy. Then whip in the olive- 
oil, a teaspoonful at a time at first, and then more rapidly 
as it thickens. danville, pa. 

CREAM FRENCH DRESSING 

4 tablespoonfuls olive-oil %, teaspoonful pepper 

2 tablespoonfuls vinegar % teaspoonful paprika 
1/2 teaspoonful salt V2 cupful heavy cream 

142 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 143 

Put first five ingredients together in a covered jar aad 
shake thoroughly till emulsified. Beat cream until it begins 
to thicken, then add very gradually the French dressing, 
which should be made first. somerville, mass. 

CREOLE SALAD DRESSING 

1/2 cupful olive-oil 3 tablespoonfuls chopped green 

5 tablespoonfuls vinegar peppers 

1/^ teaspoonful powdered sugar 1 tablespoonful mineed onion 
2 tablespoonfuls chopped pimi- i/^ tablespoonful minced parsley 
entos 1 teaspoonful salt 

Mix thoroughly, let chill, and shake well before using. A 
mason-jar is the best utensil for this purpose, and the dress- 
ing may be kept in it for weeks in the icebox. It is espe- 
cially good on asparagus, tomatoes, cucumber, or plain let- 
tuce or romaine salad. w^ashington, d. c. 

CURRY SALAD DRESSING 

y-2 teaspoonful curry powder 1 tablespoonful tarragon vine- 

6 tablespoonfuls olive- or salad- gar or lemon juice 

oil 1/2 teaspoonful onion salt 

1/4 teaspoonful pepper 

Mix thoroughly all the dry ingredients and the oil, add 
slowly the vinegar to thin. This dressing is especially good 
with cold fish. Washington, d. c. 

DANDELION WITH PENNSYLVANIA DUTCH 
DRESSING 

1 pint young dandelions ^4 cupful \inegar 

2 ounces bacon J^ cupful water 

1 Q^Q, 1/4 teaspoonful salt 

2 tablespoonfuls sugar 

"Wash and drain the dandelions and cut into two-inch 
lengths. Cut the bacon into small cubes and fry it in a fry- 
ing-pan until it is crisp. Beat the ^^^ until light and add 
the sugar, salt, vinegar, and water. Pour this mixture into 
the bacon in the frying-pan, and stir constantly until slightly 



144 Good Housekeefing's Book of 

thickened. It should be about the consistency of cream. 
While boiling pour over the dandelion and serve at once. 
This dressing is also excellent served on crisp endive. 

FRACKVTLLE, PA. 



EGOLESS BOILED SALAD DRESSING 

% teaspoonful mustard V^ teaspoonful celeiy salt 

1 teaspoonful salt 1 tablespoonful flour 

Ys teaspoonful pepper 1 scant tablespoonful sugar 

3 tablespoonf uls vinegar 1 cupful cream 

Mix dry ingredients and add cream. When smooth, turn 
in boiling vinegar and cook till smooth and creamy. If in- 
convenient to use cream, three-fourths cupful of milk and a 
fourth cupful of melted butter may be used instead. 

HOLYOKE, MASS. 



GOLDEN DRESSING 

^ cupful pineapple juice 2 egg-s 

%, cupful orange juice ^ cupful sugar 

^ cupful lemon juice i/^ cupful heavy cream 

Heat the fruit juices in the double boiler, beat the eggs 
light, gradually adding the sugar. Combine with the hot 
juice and cook like a custard till the spoon is coated. Re- 
move to a dish of cold water, beat till cold, and then fold in 
the cream whipped stiff. The dressing may be made be- 
forehand, and the whipped cream added just before serving. 
This dressing is suitable to serve with almost any fruit salad. 

JAMAICA PLAIN, MASS. 



PEEBEE SALAD DRESSING 

2 tablespoonfuls peanut butter ^A teaspoonful salt 

4 tablespoonfuls thin sour cream Vs teaspoonful mustard 

1 tablespoonful lemon juice Speck pepper 

Beat all together. This is especially good with tomato, 
cabbage, or lettuce salad. redding, conn. 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 146 



PINEAPPLE DRESSING 

Juice from one can of pineapple 2 eggs 

% cupful sugar y^ cupful whipped cream 

2 tablespoonfuls butter 1 tablespoonful flour 

Heat pineapple juice until just warm, blend together flour 
and butter, add the egg-yolks beaten and the sugar, and then 
the egg-whites whipped stiff. Pour the warm pineapple juice 
into this and stir in a double boiler till thick. When cold 
add the whipped cream. pittsfield, mass. 



RUSSIAN MAYONNAISE SALAD DRESSING 

6 tablespoonfuls mayonnaise ^2 teaspoonful chopped capers 

IJ^ tablespoonfuls chopped IV2 teaspoonfuls tarragon vine- 

pimientos gar 

6 sprigs chives, chopped 1^ tablespoonfuls whipped 

3 tablespoonfuls chili sauce cream 

Mix in order given. tonkers, n. y. 

SAVORY SALAD DRESSING 

4 tablespoonfuls olive-oil ^ tablespoonful Woroestershire 
1 tablespoonful tarragon vinegar sauce 

1^^ tablespoonfuls tomato catch- Salt to taste 

up Red and black pepper to taste 

Combine ingredients, beat well, and use at once. 

COLORADO SPRINGS, COLO. 

SOUTHERN COOKED SALAD DRESSING 

3 eggs 3 tablespoonfuls salad oil 

1 tablespoonful sugar 1 teaspoonful black pepper 

1 tablespoonful salt 1 cupful milk 

1 tablespoonful mustard 1 cupful vinegar 

Mix the sugar, salt and mustard together; add the oil, the 
eggs well beaten, the milk and the vinegar. Cook until thick 



146 Recipes and Household Discoveries 

in a double-boiler, stirring constantly. This is especially good 
on lettuce and tomatoes or any vegetable salad. 

COLUMBU, s. c. 

TASTY SALAD DRESSING 

6 tablespoonfuls cottage cheese I/2 green pepper 
1 teaspoonful salt 2 red radishes 

3 tablespoonfuls lemon juice Yolks of 2 hard-cooked eggs 

V4 teaspoonful paprika V2 cupful rich buttermilk 

1 clove garlic 

Rub the bowl with a clove of garlic cut. Chop the green 
pepper and the radishes fine and mash the egg-yolks. Mix 
and beat all the ingredients together well and pour dressing 
over any green salad. This dressing is especially good on 
lettuce or romaine. Milwaukee, wis. 



THOUSAND ISLAND SALAD DRESSING 

1 cupful thick mayonnaise dress- 6 tablespoonfuls chili sauce 
ing "2 chopped pimientos 

1/2 tablespoonful chopped chives 

Combine and serve at once. The mayonnaise should be 
very thick. This is especially good on pea and waxed-bean 

salad. ABERDEEN, S. DAK. 



UNCOOKED SALAD DRESSING 

% teaspoonful paprika 3 eggs 

1 tablespoonful salt V^ cupful melted butter 

1 tablespoonful mustard 1 cupful vinegar 

1 can condensed milk 

Mix paprika, salt, and mustard together with a little of 
the vinegar, add butter, the rest of the vinegar, then eggs 
well beaten, and last the condensed milk. Beat all together 
well with an egg-beater. Set in a cold place. Chill thor- 
oughly before using. lawrence, mass. 



Sandwiches 



CHICKEN GIBLET AND EGG SANDWICH FILLING 

Giblets of one chicken % teaspoonful salt 

1 hard-cooked egg % teaspoonful Woroestershire 

1 tablespoonful eream sauce 

1 teaspoonful tomato catchup 

Boil the ^blets in salted water until tender. Put the gib- 
lets and the egg through a meat-grinder. Add seasonings. 
This filling is very- nice on rye bread. oswego, n. y. 

CREAMED OYSTER SANDWICHES 

1 quart raw oysters (about 4 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley 
dozen) or chives 

L teaspoonful salt 1/2 cupful melted butter 

^ teaspoonful pepper i/2 cupful rich cream 

Speck nutmeg 3 egg-whites 

1 cupful powdered crackers 

Chop oysters very fine, season with salt, pepper, and nut- 
meg; add the melted butter, eream, whites of eggs beaten 
stiffly, and powdered crackers. Cook in a double-boiler until 
it is a smooth paste; add one teaspoonful chopped parsley 
or chopped chives if the flavor is liked ; then set away to cool. 
Spread mixture between thin slices of buttered bread, either 
graham or white. ST. john, n. b. 

DELICIOUS SANDWICH FILLING 

2 small cream cheeses %, cupful orange juice 

2 tablespoonfuls butter or mar- I/2 cupful chopped pimientos 
garin 1 cupful chopped walnut-meats 

1/2 teaspoonful salt 
147 



148 Good Housekeeping's Book of 

Cream the cheeses until smooth, and add gradually the but- 
ter or margarin and the orange juice. When well blended 
together, add the pimientos, the walnut-meats and the salt. 
Mix well and spread between slices of buttered graham or 
oatmeal bread. This amount will spread about twenty large 
sandwiches. 



HONEY AND NUT SANDWICHES 

White bread Chopped nuts, a choice of black 

Butter walnuts, pecans, or hickory 

Honey nuts 

Shape and butter the bread, and then spread lightly with 
honey, taking care not to spread it quite to the edge. Sprinkle 
with the chopped nuts. The top piece of bread of the sand- 
wich should be buttered and spread with the honey. The two 
slices may then be pressed together, and a garnish of a half 
nut may be used as a decoration on top by dipping the under 
side of the nut in the honey and sticking it onto the sand- 
wich. PHILADELPHIA, PA. 



HOT CHEESE SANDWICHES 

1 roll snappy cheese V^ teaspoonful salt 

1 egg well beaten V4, teaspoonful mustard 

1 tablespoonful Worcestershire Bacon 

sauce Rounds of bread 

Cream the cheese; add the egg and seasoning and spread 
on the bread, which should be cut about a half-inch thick. 
Place a slice of bacon on each round and bake a few minutes 
in a quick oven till the bacon is done. Serve with a green 

salad. BROOKLYN, N. Y. 



HOT-GREEN-PEPPER SANDWICHES 

6 large green peppers 3 tablespoonfuls olive-oil, butter, 
6 medium-sized tomatoes or baeon-drippinsrs 
% cupful sliced onion Fresh buns, or white or entire- 
Salt and pepper to taste wheat bread 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 149 

Cook the sliced onions for five minutes in the oil, butter 
or bacon-drippings. Remove seeds and stems from the pep- 
pers, peel the tomatoes, chop coarsely together, add to the 
onion and oil (or its substitute), and cook till the juice is 
evaporated, about forty-five minutes. Season to taste with 
salt and pepper and serve hot as sandwiches, made of the 
desired bread. To make this very substantial, insert two 
slices of cooked bacon, or a slice of cooked ham in each sand- 
wich. CONNEAUTVILLE, PA. 



ITALIAN SANDWICH 

^ pound dried beef V^ poimd American cheese 

1 pint canned tomatoes 

Put the beef and cheese through the meat-grinder; add 
the tomatoes, which have been sieved, and cook till thick. 
When cold, use as a filling for white bread sandwiches. A 
lettuce-leaf in each sandwich is a good addition. 

BROOKLYN, N. Y. 



OATS AND CHEESE SANDWICH FILLING' 

1/2 cupful cooked rolled oats 2 or 3 tablespoonfuls prepared 

% cupful grated cheese mustard 

1 tablespoonful chopped nuts 

To the cooked oats, which were well salted during cooking, 
add the grated cheese and chopped nuts. Mix thoroughly 
with the mustard, the exact amount depending upon the 
dryness of the oats. Use as a filling between slices of but- 
tered rye bread. Toledo, o. 



PICNIC OR CAMPING SANDWICH 

1 can pimientos Cheese 

1 tablespoonful butter Buttered bread 

Fry pimientos quickly in the butter and remove from the 
pan. In the same butter place thin slices of cheese and hold 



150 Good Housekeeping's Book of 

this over the campfire until the cheese is "pliable" but not 
melted. Place between buttered slices of bread a layer of 
pimiento and a layer of cheese. Serve while hot. 

BROOKLYN. N. Y. 



PIQUANT CHEESE SANDWICHES 

3 eggs 1 teaspoonful mustard 

1 cupful sweet or sour cream 4 tablespoonfuls finely chopped 

1 tablespoonful butter green or red peppers 

1 tablespoonful sugar 1 teaspoonful salt 

Few grains cayenne pepper 3 tablespoonfuls mild \mega,T 

iy2 pounds American cheese 

Beat the eggs, add cream, butter, sugar, cayenne pepper, 
mustard, and salt. Cook over boiling water until thick. Heat 
vinegar and add it to the cream mixture. Cook another min- 
ute. Cream or crumble cheese and add chopped peppers and 
enough of the dressing to make the mixture spread easily. 

NEW YORK, N. Y. 



SAVORY SANDWICH FILLING 

1/2 cupful almonds Paprika 

1 tablespoonful cooking oil 2 tablespoonfuls chopped pickles 

Salt 1 tablespoonful chopped chutney 

1 large cream cheese 

Blanch the almonds and brown them in the oil placed in 
a skillet. Chop fine. Season well with salt and paprika and 
add the pickles and chutney. Spread either bread or crack- 
ers with cream cheese softened and sprinkle with the almond 
mixture. This is sufficient filling to make up one small loaf 
of bread in sandwiches, if the slices are cut thin. 

HUMANSVILLE, MO. 

SUBSTANTIAL CAMPER'S SANDWICH 

Thinly sliced tomatoes White bread 

Canned salmon Butter 

Cut the bread one-quarter inch thick, and spread with 
butter. On one slice put a layer of the tomatoes salted. 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 151 

Cover this with the salmon minced, and then put on the 
second slice. No other dressing is needed, although a little 
mayonnaise or boiled dressing may be mixed with the salmon 
if desired. Brooklyn, n. y. 



TASTY NEW SANDWICH FILLING 

3 tablespoonfuls peanut butter 2 tablespoonfuls cold water 
2 tablespoonfuls tomato catchup 

Add the cold water gradually to the peanut butter to make 
it the desired consistency for spreading. Beat until very 
creamy and add the tomato catchup. Mix thoroughly and 
spread between very thin slices of bread. No butter is 
needed. This amount of filling makes only a few sandwiches. 

WASHINGTON, PA. 

YUM-YUM SANDWICHES 

1 cream cheese, or an equal 2 cupfuls minced ham 

quantity of cottage cheese White or rye bread 

1 small bmieh watercress 

Pick the leaves from the watercress, and cream them into 
the cheese together with the ham. Spread between thin slices 
of unbuttered bread. A little mayonnaise or French dressmg 
may be added to this sandwich filling if desired, keene, n. h. 



Soups 



BEAN CHOWDER 



1 pint navy beans 
% pound salt pork 
1 quart can tomatoes 



2 medium-sized onions 
^,4 teaspoonful pepper 
2 teaspoonfuls salt 



114 tablespoonfuls sugar 

Soak the beans overnight in a quart of boiling water con- 
taining one teaspoonful of baking-soda. Drain, rinse thor- 
oughly, and put into a kettle containing a quart of water, with 
the pork cut in dice and the onion thinly sliced. Boil gently 
for four hours, replenishing the water as it boils away. Then 
add the tomatoes, pepper, salt, and sugar, and simmer an 
hour longer. This may also be prepared in the fireless cooker. 
In this case all the ingredients should be added in the be- 
ginning, and the chowder should be boiled twenty minutes 
before being put in the cooker. texas city, tex. 

BLACK BEAN SOUP 



2 cupfuls black beans 

Roast-beef bones, or hock bones 

1^ tablespoonfuls salt 

21/2 quarts water 

1 chopped onion 

1 tablespoonful lemon juice 

11/2 tablespoonfuls butter 



1 tomato, or one-half cup stewed 

tomatoes, if desired 
1/4 teaspoonful pepper 
1/^ tablespoonful Worcestershire 

sauce 
1 hard-cooked egg 
11/2 tablespoonfuls flour 



Soak beans overnight, in the morning drain and put In 
kettle with the water and bones. Simmer gentl}'' for three 
hours, then add onion, tomatoes, salt, and pepper. Boil till 
beans are soft, rub through a sieve, thicken with the flour 
and butter creamed together, and add the Worcestershire 
sauce, the egg chopped fine, and the lemon juice. 

152 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 153 



CANNED CORN AND CELERY CHOWDER 

1 can com 2 onions 

1 head celery V^ pound salt pork 

1 quart milk Salt and pepper to taste 

2 cupfuls diced, cooked potatoes 

Dice the salt pork and put it in a frying-pan. When the 
fat begins to cook out, add the onions chopped fine and cook 
the two together until the latter are tender and the salt pork 
is browned. Cut the celery in inch-lengths and cook it till 
tender in salted water barely to cover. Add celery and liquor 
to the milk with the potato, onions, and pork. Bring to the 
boiling-point, turn in the com, reheat, and serve with split 
and buttered browned crackers. hanoveb, n. h. 



CELERY CHOWDER 

4 cupfuls finely cut celery 2 tablespoonfuls margarin 

1 quart milk 1 tablespoonful flour 

1 large potato grated 2 hard-cooked eggs 

1 medium-sized onion Salt and pepper to taste 

Boil the celery in water to cover until tender, and force 
through a sieve, keeping the water as well as pulp. Add the 
milk and grated potato and cook five minutes. Chop the 
onion fine and saute in one tablespoonful of the margarin. 
When delicately browned, add to the first mixture. Chop 
the hard-cooked eggs and add. Thicken slightly with one 
tablespoonful of margarin and the flour cooked together. 
Season to taste with salt and pepper. Leaves and the tougher 
outer stalks of celery may be used. san diego, cal. 



CREAM OF PEA SOUP WITH VEGETABLES 

1 can peas ^ teaspoonful salt 

1 quart boiling water % teaspoonful pepper 

1 medium-sized potato Few grains nutmeg 

1 small onion % cupful hot water 

1 small carrot 1 can vegetable soup 

2 tablespoonfuls flour i/^ cupful cream or evaporated 
2 tablespoonfuls butter milk 



154 Good Housekeeping's Book of 

Chop together the potato, onion, and carrot, add to the 
boiling water with the peas, cook for an hour, replenishing 
the water as it evaporates. Then strain. Add the vege- 
table soup diluted according to directions, and thicken with 
the flour and butter creamed together with the salt, pepper, 
and nutmeg, and diluted with the hot water. Add the cream 
just before serving. canton, o. 



CREAM OF TOMATO COCONUT SOUP 

1 pint canned tomatoes 1 slice onion 

1 pint milk 2 tablespoonfuls flour 

^ teaspoonful soda 2 tablespoonfuls margarin 

% cupful freshly grated coconut 1 teaspoonful salt 

2 teaspoonfuls sugar Yg teaspoonful pepper 

Melt the margarin in a saucepan, add flour, and cook till 
bubbling; add cold milk gradually, stirring constantly until 
thickened. Add coconut. Cook tomatoes with onion, sugar, 
and seasoning, for fifteen minutes. Add soda and rub 
through a strainer. Combine mixtures slowly and serve at 

once. NEW YORK, N. Y. 



CREOLE SOUP 

1 pint stewed tomatoes 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

1 green pepper, sliced thin 2 tablespoonfuls flour 

1 pint well-seasoned soup stock Salt and paprika to taste 
Vs teaspoonful celery salt 

Simmer the tomatoes, pepper, and stock together for fif- 
teen minutes. Thicken with the flour and butter creamed 
together, strain and season. Norwood, mass. 



DELICIOUS FISH CHOWDER 

1 pound haddock, cod or halibut % teaspoonful sugar 
4 medium-sized potatoes About % cupful cracker-crumbs 

3 slices fat salt pork, diced 1 quart milk 

3 medium-sized onions Salt and pepper to taste 

1/4 teaspoonful curry-powder 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 155 

Slice the potatoes and put them on to boil in a quart of 
water. Then mash them and return to the water in which 
they were boiled. In the meantime try out the salt pork, 
add the onions, and cook them slowly in the fat till thor- 
oughly done. Add to the potatoes. Turn i^ the fish cut in 
dice, add the sugar, curry, and milk. Cook gently for thirty 
minutes; thicken as desired with the cracker- or dry bread- 
crumbs, the exact amount depending on the fineness of the 
crumbs. Season with salt and pepper to taste. 

ANSONIA, conn. 



A DIFFERENT POTATO SOUP 

2 cupfuls diced potatoes 1 quart milk 

^ cupful canned tomatoes Few grains cayenne pepper 

1 small onion Few shreds cabbage or T)ieces of 

1 tablespoonful butter celery 

1 teaspoonful salt % teaspoonful pepper 

Vs teaspoonful baking-soda 

Place potatoes in a good-sized pan, add tomatoes, onion 
diced, cayenne pepper, cabbage or celery, butter, and salt 
and pepper. Cover with just enough water to allow for cook- 
ing of potatoes, etc. When tender, add baking-soda and then 
the milk and allow to reach boiling-point. Serve with crisp 
toast or saltines. fairland, ind. 



ESAU'S POTTAGE 

4 small onions 1 can red kidney beans 

2 tablespoonfuls shortening 1 can tomatoes 

Ys teaspoonful soda 1 pint hot milk 

Salt and pepper 

Chop onions and cook in the shortening until soft and 
yellow. Add the beans and tomatoes; simmer until soft 
enough to force through a strainer. When ready to serve 
add the soda and thin with the hot milk; season to taste. 
More milk may be added, if desired. Philadelphia, pa. 



156 Good Housekeeping's Book op 



GINGER CREAM SOUP 

4 tablespoonfuls butter 2 teaspoonfuls salt 

3 tablespoonfuls flour % teaspoonful pepper 

3 cupfuls milk, or milk and veg- 1 cupful of any cooked vegetable 
etable stock (as carrots, peas, celery) 

1 teaspoonful ginger 

Make a white sauce as follows: melt the butter, add the 
flour and ginger; cook until it bubbles; add milk (or half 
milk and half water in which vegetable was cooked) gradu- 
ally, stirring constantly. When all the milk is added, season 
with salt and pepper and add the vegetables chopped fine or 
forced through a sieve. Heat and serve with croutons. Left- 
over vegetables may be utilized in making this soup. 

MISSOULA, MONT. 



GRANDMOTHER'S PARSNIP CHOWDER 

3 slices fat salt pork, diced 1 quart scalded milk 

1 medium-sized onion sliced thin 3 tablespoonfuls butter 

2 cupfuls cubed raw potato 4 water crackers or 

11/2 cupfuls cubed raw parsnips ^^ cupful cracker -crumbs 

3 cupfuls boiling water 2 teaspoonfuls salt 

14 teaspoonful pepper 

Combine the salt pork and onion in the soup-kettle and 
cook for five minutes, taking care not to burn the onion ; add 
to this half of the potatoes, the parsnips, and the remaining 
potatoes, sprinkle over the salt and pepper, add the boiling 
water, and simmer until the vegetable are soft. Then add the 
scalded milk, butter, and crackers split and soaked in cold 
milk, or the crumbs. Worcester, mass. 



IMPROVED OYSTER STEW 

24 oysters 1 tablespoonful finely chopped 

Oyster liquor green pepper 

11/2 teaspoonfuls salt 3 cupfuls milk 

% teaspoonful white pepper 4 tablespoonfuls flour 

2 tablespoonfuls butter 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 157 

Strain liquor carefully and cook oysters in it until the 
edges begin to curl. Make white sauce by melting the but- 
ter, add flour and salt. Cook till bubbling and add milk 
gradually. Then add to oysters and liquor. Add white pep- 
per and chopped green pepper last and serve at once. 

TOPSFIELD, MASS. 



LUMBERMAN'S PEA SOUP 

1 pint dried green peas 2 tablespoonfuls flour 

1 pound salt pork 1 teaspoonful summer savory 

1 onion, minced % teaspoonful sage 

3 quarts boiling water Salt and pepper to taste 

Wash peas, soak overnight in water to cover, then drain. 
Wash the salt pork, scrape the rind, and add pork to the 
peas, together with onion and water. Simmer until the peas 
are tender, about seven hours, replenishing the water if nec- 
essary to keep the quantity about two quarts. If prepared in 
a fireless cooker use two quarts of water, set on a very hot 
radiator, and let stand overnight. Cook longer if necessary. 
When the peas are tender, rub through a colander, add the 
herbs, salt, and pepper to taste, and thicken with the flour 
moistened with milk or water. Boil five minutes and serve. 
If too thick, thin with hot milk. The pork may be scored 
into half-inch squares, baked until translucent and brown, 
and then served with prepared mustard. A ham-bone with 
a little ham-fat on it may be substituted for the salt pork. 

NIAGARA FALLS, N. Y. 



NEVER-FAIL TOMATO SOUP 

3 tablespoonfuls melted butter ^,4 teaspoonful soda 

3I/2 tablespoonfuls flour 1 teaspoonful salt 

2 cupfuls sifted, canned toma- I/2 teaspoonful onion juice 

toes II/2 cupfuls milk 

Stir the butter and flour to a smooth paste and add the to- 
matoes gradually. When it has boiled up thoroughly, add 
soda, salt, and onion. Cool, and when desired for use add 
the cold milk, and heat thoroughly in a double boiler, stirring 
occasionally. burt, ia. 



158 Good Housekeeping's Book op 



ONION SOUP 

6 medium-sized onions Few gi-ains celery salt 

y-2. teaspoonful salt 2 small cans plain consomme 

1 teaspoonful kitchen bouquet 3 tablespoonfuls grated Parme- 

Few grains pepper san cheese 

Few gi-ains paprika 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

2 eupfuls hot water 

Slice the onions and cook in butter, stirring frequently, 
until light brown. Add consomme and hot Vvater, and let 
boil gently fifteen minutes. Add cheese and seasoning and 
pour into casserole, and bake uncovered in a moderate oven 
fifteen minutes, until cheese is thoroughly blended. Brown 
stock or beef-broth may be substituted for consomme and 
"Worcestershire sauce or any desired flavoring added. 

HARTFORD, CONN. 

QUAHAUG CHOWDER 

1 large onion i/^ tablespoonful flour 

1 tablespoonful butter or pork- 1 quart quahaugs 

fat 1 tablespoonful butter 

1 quart hot water 1 pint scalded milk 

1 pint sliced potatoes Pepper to taste 

Chop the onion and cook in the fat till softened, adding a 
little water to keep it from burning. When tender, turn in 
the hot water and potatoes and cook thirty minutes. Add 
the juice from the raw quahaugs (hard-shelled clams), scald- 
ing it three minutes and skimming. Thicken with the flour, 
rubbed smooth with the butter. Then add the quahaugs 
chopped raw. Cook three minutes and add the hot milk. 
Serve without further cooking. new Bedford, mass. 

SALT CODFISH CHOWDER 

1 pound salt codfish ly^ eupfuls cold water 

1^ eupfuls potatoes, cubed 1 pint milk 

1 stalk celery, chopped fine 2 eupfuls strained tomato juice 

y^ cupful diced onions Pepper 

Paprika 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 159 

Shred the salt codfish into small pieces and cover with luke- 
warm water. Allow to stand overnight and then pour off the 
water, or allow it to stand for two hours, changing the water 
three times. Cut the potatoes into one-eighth inch cubes. 
Place in a kettle, together with the salt fish, the celery chopped 
fine, and the diced onions. Add the cold water, cover, and 
allow to simmer twenty-five minutes. Heat the milk and 
strained tomato juice separately, and add gradually to the 
fish and potato. Season with pepper and paprika and sen^e 
with plain bread and butter sandwiches. new york, n. y. 

VEGETABLE CHOWDER 

6 slices fat bacan 4 large potatoes 

1 can tomatoes 1 can okra if desired 

1 quart milk 2 tablespoonfuls flour 

1 can Hma beans IV2 teaspoonfuls salt 

2 onions ^4 teaspoonful pepper 

y^ teaspoonful soda 

Dice the bacon and cook until brown : add onion sliced thin 
and cooked until softened in the bacon-fat. Combine the lima 
beans and the potatoes, cubed, with the milk. Add bacon 
and onions and cook until the potatoes are done. Thicken 
with the flour mixed with a little cold milk; add the salt, 
pepper, and okra, and stir in the tomatoes, after adding the 
soda to them and bringing them to the boiling point. Dried 
lima beans, cooked till tender, may be used. hanoveb, n. h. 

VEGETABLE SOUP WITHOUT MEAT 

2 quarts cold water 1 cupful canned tomato 

3 good-sized potatoes, diced 1 small bunch celery, chopped 
2 small onions, sliced 1 cupful cooked navj' beans 

1 carrot, cut in straws 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

^ cupful chopped cabbage 1 teaspoonful sugar 

Salt and pepper to taste 

Caramelize the sugar in the soup-kettle, add the water and 
all the vegetables except the beans. Simmer slowly for an 
hour. Season with salt and pepper to taste, and then cook 
gently for an hour longer. Then add the beans and butter. 
If prepared in a fireless cooker, use only one and one-half 
quarts of water. napoleon, o. 



Vegetables 

BAKED BEANS WITH CHILI SAUCE 

(For the Fireless Cooker) 

1 quart pea-beans V^ teaspoonful baking-soda 

1 pound fat salt pork % cupful chili sauce 

1 teaspoonful prepared mustard 2 tablespoonfuls minced onion 

3 teaspoonfuls salt ^4 cupful molasses 

Soak the beans all day in cold water to cover. In the eve- 
ning rinse, add the baking-soda, pork, and salt, and boil 
twenty minutes. Heat a radiator to 400° F. and cook the 
beans all night in the fireless cooker. In the morning add 
the chili sauce, onion, and molasses. Reheat the radiator, 
place a second heated radiator over the top, and bake for 
three hours. erie, pa. 

BAKED BEANS WITH SAMP 

1 pint navy or kidney beans ^ pound salt pork or bacon 

1 cupful samp or coarse hominy 2 teaspoonfuls salt 

2 tablespoonfuls molasses 1 teaspoonful paprika 

1/2 teaspoonful baking-soda 

Soak the beans and samp overnight in two quarts of wate* 
containing the baking-soda. In the morning drain, cover 
with cold water, and boil until the skins break ; then add the 
other ingredients — the pork should be cut in cubes — place in 
a bean-pot and bake for several hours; all day in a fireless 
cooker is not too long. In the summer omit the samp, and 
half an hour before serving stir in one pint of raw corn cut 
from the cob and seasoned to taste. Finish baking as usual. 

REDDING, CONN. 

160 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 161 



BAKED KIDNEY BEANS 

3 cupfuls kidney beans 3^ teaspoonf ul pepper 

4 large onions y2 pound fat salt pork 
1 pint canned or stewed toma- 1 tablespoonful sugar 

toes 1 tablespoonful salt 

Soak the beans overnight ; in the morning, parboil together 
with the onions. Put into the bean-pot and stir in the toma- 
toes, salt, sugar, and pepper. Burj- pork in the beans, having 
water barely to cover. Two hours before the beans will be 
done bring pork to the top to brown. Bake about five hours 
in a slow oven. raynham center, mass. 



BAKED NEW BEETS 

2 bunches new beets 1 teaspoonful salt 

3 tablespoonfuls butter ^ teaspoonful pepper 

Wash and scrub the new beets ; cut off the stem-ends, place 
beets in a pan containing a little hot water to keep them from 
sticking, and bake till tender in a moderately hot oven — 
from forty-five minutes to an hour. Cool, remove skins, and 
serve seasoned with butter, salt, and pepper. 

WORCESTER, MASS. 

BAKED SQUASH 

1 large Hubbard squash 4 tablespoonfuls brown sugar 

2 teaspoonfuls salt 2 tablespoonfuls butter or mar- 
y^ teaspoonful pepper garin 

Cut squash crosswise, remove the fiber and seeds, scrape 
the cavity thoroughly, and place it cut side down on the rack 
in a dripping-pan with half a cupful of hot water. Bake it 
at least two hours in a moderately hot oven, replenishing the 
water, if necessary. If the squash is too moist, remove it 
from the pan when done, pour off any excess liquid, return 
the squash to the pan, placing it cut side up, and dry it off 
for ten minutes in a warm oven. At this stage sprinkle the 
squash with the salt, pepper, and brown sugar, and dot over 



162 Good Housekeeping's Book of 

with butter or margarin; let brown in a hot oven. Honey 
may be used in place of the brown sugar, for variety ; or the 
squash, after being baked until soft, may be scraped from the 
shell, mashed with a fork, and seasoned with salt, pepper, and 
just a trace of mace ; also add a little sweet cream or butter. 
The addition of grated cheese gives another variation. 

REDDING, CONN. 

BEETS A LA KING 

5 medium-sized beets 3 tablespoonfuls cream 

1 tablespoonful butter V2 teaspoonful sugar 

1 tablespoonful flour ^ teaspoonful salt 

1 cupful cold water Va teaspoonful pepper 

3 tablespoonfuls vinegar Vs teaspoonful paprika 

Wash and boil the beets till tender. Then drop into cold 
water and slip the skins from them. Cut the beets into thin 
slices or fancy shapes. Melt the butter, add the flour, and 
cook till bubbling; then add the water and stir till smooth. 
Add the vinegar and remove from the fire. Then stir in the 
cream, sugar, salt, pepper, and paprika. Pour over the beets 
and serve hot. Philadelphia, pa. 



BELGIAN CARROTS 

2 cupfuls thinly sliced French % teaspoonful pepper 

carrots 1 tablespoonful minced parsley 

1^ tablespoonfuls sugar }4 cupful butter 

Combine the sugar and carrots and cook covered till soft, 
adding water barely to cover. "When tender, drain, mince 
carrots, and add remaining ingredients. Let stand in a warm 
place about half an hour. Cambridge, iiAss. 



BRAISED CARROTS 

6 medium-sized carrots 2 tablespoonfuls melted butter 

1 cupful stock or boiling water 

Wash and scrape the carrots, cut them in quarters length- 
wise, and let them stand in boiling water until the water cools. 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 163 

Remove and place them in a frying pan with the melted 
butter. Cook them gently until well browned, turning them 
often. Then add the stock or boiling water and place them 
in the oven for half an hour. When tender and well done, 
serve on a hot platter with the gravy, properly seasoned and 
strained, over them, Philadelphia, pa. 

BREAKFAST CORN AND POTATOES 

3 cupfuls diced cooked potatoes 3 tablespooufuls bacon or sau- 

4 eai-s cooked com sage fat 

1^4 teaspoonfuls salt % teaspoonful paprika 

Cut cold cooked potatoes into half -inch dice, season with 
salt and paprika, and saute until a rich brown in the bacon 
or sausage fat ; when nearly done add the corn cut from the 
cob, and stir lightly among the potatoes until the com also 
is delicately browned. Do this quickly, concord, mass. 

BROWN BREAD TOMATO TOAST 

3 tablespooufuls fat or oil ^4 cupful rich milk 

3 tablespooufuls flour Toasted brown bread 
IV2 cupfuls stewed tomatoes % teaspoonful pepper 
^ teaspoonful soda 1 teaspoonful salt 

Melt the fat in a saucepan ; add the flour. When smooth, 
add the stewed tomatoes to which the soda has been added, 
then stir in the milk gradually. When this thickens a little, 
season with salt and pepper. Pour over slices of toasted 
brown bread. Graham may be used if preferred. 

tarpon springs, FLA. 

BUTTERED POTATOES AND ONIONS 

1 dozen small, whole potatoes I/2 dozen medium-sized onions 

4 tablespoonfuls margarin 3 teaspoonfuls salt 

1/4 teaspoonful pepper 

Pare the potatoes and onions and put in a casserole; add 
the margarin, salt, and pepper. Cover and bake in three- 
quarters of an hour. ames. ia. 



164 Good Housekeeping's Book op 



BUTTERLESS PARSNIPS 

6 medium-sized pai-snips Pepper, mace, curry or other 

^ cupful chopped, raw suet seasonings to taste 

1 teaspoonful salt 

Wash the parsnips and hoil one-half hour, or until mod- 
erately tender. Drain and cover with cold water to slip off 
the skins. Split lengthwise, arrange in a shallow, greased 
haking-dish, spnnkle with the suet and seasonings, and bake 
in a hot oven until evenly browned and crisp on the edges. 

REDDING, conn. 



CABBAGE 

1 small, hard cabbage 1 teaspoonful salt 

1/^ teaspoonful baking-soda 

Cut the cabbage in quarters and place cut side down 
in cold salted water for ten minutes. To a kettle of boiling 
water add the salt and baking-soda. Drain the cabbage well 
and plunge it into the saucepan. Cover for a moment until 
the boiling is again resumed; then remove the lid of the 
saucepan and continue boiling rapidly without a cover for 
twenty-five minutes, not a moment longer. If the cabbage is 
first shredded coarsely, even less time will be required. Now 
drain it well, pressing it lightly to exclude all the water, and 
dress it as you prefer. Philadelphia, pa. 



CABBAGE AU GRATIN 

2 cupfuls chopped boiled cab- % cupful buttered crumbs 

bage (seasoned lightly with 1 cupful milk 
salt and pepper) Few grains of pepper 

1 tablespoonful flour i/2 teaspoonful salt 

1 tablespoonful butter 1/4 cupful grated cheese 

Put the chopped cabbage into a buttered baking-dish ; pour 
over this white sauce made as follows: ]\Ielt the butter, add 
flour and seasoning, and blend well. Add the milk gradually, 
stirring constantly, and cook until the mixture becomes thick. 



Eecipes and Household Discoveries 165 

Cover with buttered erums and grated cheese, and bake until 
brown. cody, wyo. 



CARROTS WITH BUTTER SAUCE 

3 eupfuls diced carrots 3 tablespoonfuls butter 

21/2 eupfuls boiling water 1 teaspoonful sugar 

iy2 teaspoonfuls salt Few grains pepper 

2 tablespoonfuls flour 

Fry carrots in butter till slightly softened; add flour, 
seasonings, and water, bring to a boil, cover and simmer gently 
till carrots are tender. This takes about an hour. 

EJLLINLY, CONN. 



CELERY AU GRATIN 

3 eupfuls diced celery i/2 cupful grated cheese 

iy2 eupfuls mediiun-thick white I/2 eupful dry bread-crumbs 
sauce 

Boil the celery in a small amount of salted water till tender, 
allowing it to cook practically dry. Butter a baking-dish and 
put in a layer of the celery, then one of white sauce, alternat- 
ing in this way till all is used. Cover the top with the cheese 
and crumbs and brown in a hot oven. 

NEWTON CENTER, MASS. 



CHEESE POTATOES IN JACKET 

6 large potatoes li/^ teaspoonfuls salt 

2 egg-whites well beaten % teaspoonful pepper 

1 teaspoonful butter Cheese 

3^ cupful rich milk or cream 

Rub potatoes over with melted butter, then bake till thor- 
oughly done. Cut in halves lengthwise, scoop out potato, 
and mash till all the lumps are out. Beat in the butter, milk 
and seasoning, and, when fluffy, add the egg-whites. Then 
refill the potato-shells, smooth, and place on top of each a thin 
slice of American cheese. Return to oven to brown for about 
ten minutes, and serve at once. elberton, ga. 



166 Good Housekeeping's Book op 



COOKED TOMATOES 

1 large can tomatoes II/2 tablespoonfuls sugar 

1 tablespoonful butt3r 1 teaspoonful salt 

1 tablespoonful flour Vs teaspoonful pepper 

2 hard-cooked eggs 

Melt butter, add flour, and stir till dark brown. Turn in 
tomatoes, sugar, salt, and pepper, and cook till thick, about 
thirty minutes. Just before serving, slice the hard-cooked 
eggs over the top. armory, miss. 



CORN AND TOMATOES, SOUTHERN STYLE 

6 ears com 2 teaspoonfuls salt 

IV2 eupfuls stewed tomato 1 tablespoonful sugar 

1/4 teaspoonful pepper 

Cut cooked tender corn from the cob, first scoring each row 
down through the middle with a sharp knife, and mix with 
stewed tomato to moisten well. Season highly with the sugar, 
salt, and pepper. concord, mass. 

CREAMED CABBAGE AND POTATOES 

1 medium-sized cabbage Paprika 

6 medium-sized potatoes 2 tablespoonfuls butter or mar- 

2 teaspoonfuls salt garin 

2 tablespoonfuls flour 2 eupfuls milk 

Quarter the cabbage, scrape or pare the potatoes, and cook 
together in plenty of salted water till tender. Drain, return 
to fire, sea.son with the salt, paprika, and the butter or 
margarin, and dredge with the flour. Add the milk and 
chop and toss lightly with a knife until the milk is thickened 
and largely absorbed. redding, conn. 

CREAMED CARROTS AND ONIONS 

1 large bunch carrots 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

2 medium-sized onions 2 tablespoonfuls flour 

1 cupful milk Salt and pepper to taste 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 167 

Wash, scrape, and cut carrots into small pieces, slice onions, 
and boil together until tender. I\lake a white sauce with the 
milk, flour, and butter, add salt and pepper. Drain carrots 
and onions axid stir into the sauce. Serve hot. 

HINSDALE, ILL. 

DELICIOUS POTATOES AU ORATIN 

2 cupfuls diced potatoes 1 cupful milk 

2 tablespoonfuls butter 1 teaspoonful lemon juice 

2 tablespoonfuls flour 1 cupful gi*ated American cheese 

1/2 teaspoonful salt 

Cook butter and flour together until bubbling; then add 
milk very slowly, stirring constantly. Cook until thick and 
smooth. Add the cheese and stir until it is melted, then add 
salt and lemon juice. Pepper may be added if desired. In 
this sauce place the potatoes and heat thoroughly. Put into 
a greased baking-dish, cover the top with more grated cheese. 
Brown in a hot oven. petaluma, cal. 

"DIFFERENT" POTATO CAKES 

2 cupfuls cold mashed potato 1 egg 

2 tablespoonfuls milk 'Bacon 

Add to the potato the egg, well beaten, milk, salt, and pep- 
per to taste if the potato has not already been seasoned. Mix 
well and form, using a little flour, into eight or ten neat balls. 
Pin around each a thin strip of bacon, using a wooden tooth- 
pick to hold it in place. Set in a hot oven, or under broiler 
blaze if gas is used, till bacon is brown and crispy. Serve at 

once. BERKELEY, CAL. 



EGGPLANT AU GRATIN 

2 medium-sized eggplants 3 tablespoonfuls chopped pars- 

1^ teaspoonfuls salt ley 

% teaspoonful pepper 2 medium-sized tomatoes 

1 tablespoonful vinegar 1 cupful soaked bread-crumbs 

1 medium-sized onion 2 tablespoonfuls butter or mar- 

1 small piece garlic garin 

1 shallot % cupful mushrooms 



168 Good Housekeeping's Book op 

Cut the eg^lant in halves and remove the pulp without 
hreaking the skin. Put this pulp in a bowl with one tea- 
spoonful of salt, one-quarter teaspoonful of pepper, and the 
vinegar. Let stand one hour. Chop the onion, garlic and 
shallot very fine. Add the chopped parsley, and the mush- 
rooms and tomatoes coarsely chopped. Place in a frying-pan 
and fry until golden brown. Then add the drained eggplant 
pulp and the bread-crumbs. Mix well. Add a half teaspoon- 
ful of salt and one-eighth teaspoonful of pepper. Fry until 
the mixture is tender. Then fill the eggplant shells with this 
stuffing. Dot over the top with the butter or margarin and 
bake until the shells are tender, in a moderate oven. 

PARIS, PEANCE. 



FLAVORED BEETS 

2 cupfuls sliced, cooked beets 2 tablespoonfuls batter 

% cupful sugar V^ teaspoonful salt 

% cupful vinegar % tablespoonful corn-starch 

Mix the corn-starch with the vinegar, add sugar and salt, 
and let come to a boil, stirring constantly. Cook five minutes, 
then beat in the butter, pour over the beets, and serve hot. 

SPRINGVILliE, N. Y. 



FRIED CAULIFLOWER WITH ONION 

1 head cauliflower 1 onion 

2 tablespoonfuls fat 

Cook a good-sized head of cauliflower in boiling salted water 
until tender. Drain and separate into flowerets. Brown the 
onion, minced, in the fat; add the cauliflower and cook ten 
minutes. jersey city, n. j. 



GREAT-GRANDMOTHER'S SUCCOTASH 

6 ears of com V^ pound piece bacon 

1 pint fresh lima beans, shelled 2 quarts water 
1 large potato 3 teaspoonfuls salt 

^/4 teaspoonful pepper 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 169 

Score the com and cut from the cobs, scraping the cobs 
well to obtain all the milk. Place in a soup kettle with the 
diced potato, lima beans, and bacon cut in cubes. Add the 
water and seasoning; bring slowly to a boil and let simmer 
four hours, or cook in the fireless cooker. Serve in the soup 
tureen or in soup dishes. Washington, d. c. 



LIMA BEANS EN CASSEROLE 

iy2 cupfuls dried lima beans 1 cupful milk 

^ pound sliced bacon Salt 

2 medium-sized onions Pepper 

Soak the beans overnight. In the morning boil until soft 
and drain. Sear the bacon in a hot frying-pan ; remove from 
pan and add the onions sliced. Cook these until soft. In a 
greased casserole place a layer of beans sprinkled with onions, 
small pieces of the bacon, and sparingly with salt and pepper ; 
repeat until all is used. Over this pour the milk and bake 
from fifteen minutes to one-half hour. urbana, ill. 



LONG ISLAND SUCCOTASH 

2 cupfuls corn cut from cob Piece salt pork 2 inches square 
1^ cupfuls lima beans 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

3 cupfuls water 1 tablespoonful flour 
2 cupfuls milk 1 tablespoonful water 
2 teaspoonfuls salt %, teaspoonful pepper 

Combine the corn and lima beans, add the water, and cook 
for one-half hour, stirring now and then. Pour off the water, 
add the milk, salt pork, and salt, and simmer for one hour, 
until the beans and corn are tender. Add the butter and 
the flour, which has been made into a paste with one table- 
spoonful of water. Add the pepper and serve hot. 

LAWRENCE, L. I. 



LUNCHEON ASPARAGUS 

2 bunches asparagus 6 large slices buttered toast 

3 tablespoonfuls melted butter Grated cheese 



170 Good Housekeeping's Book of 

Clean asparagus, cut off the tough ends, and tie tips in 
bundles. Sprinkle lightly with salt, and steam or boil till 
tender. Place on the toast, sprinkle liberally with grated 
cheese, and set in a quick oven to melt the cheese. 

NEW HAVEN, CONN. 



LUNCHEON CORN 

6 ears corn 1 teaspoonful sugar 

2 cupfuls milk 3 tablespoonfuls butter or mar- 

2 teaspoonfuls salt garin 

Paprika Toast 

If corn is a little old, cut it off the cob — first scoring down 
the middle of each row with a sharp knife and slicing off the 
tips of the kernels — and cook five minutes, after it begins to 
boil, in the milk, using just enough to cover or moisten well. 
Season with salt, paprika, sugar, and butter or margarin, and 
dip into a shallow dish lined with hot, thin, buttered toast. 
Garnish with a picket fence of toast points standing up around 
the edge and place a sprig of parsley between the points. 
Stewed tomatoes may be used in cooking the corn, in which 
ease use one tablespoonful of sugar, and increase the amount 
of salt if necessary, concord, mass. 



LUNCHEON DISH FROM EMERGENCY SHELF 

1 quart can spinach 1 small can tomato soup or 

6 eggs % cupful tomato catchup 

Heat the spinach by steaming. Arrange on chop-plate, 
"nest" the six eggs poached on it. Surround with the heated 
soup, or the heated catchup. Detroit, mich. 



LUNCHEON SPINACH 

2 cupfuls chopped, cooked spin- 1 tablespoonful butter or mar- 
ach garin 

'Y2 teaspoonful salt 1 cupful white sauce 

y^ teaspoonful pepper 1 cupful minced ham 

3 hard-cooked eggs V4, cupful grated cheese 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 171 

Season the chopped, cooked spinach, either canned or fresh, 
with the salt, pepper, and butter or margarin. Spread one- 
half of the spinach in a buttered, glass baking-dish, then add 
a layer of the minced ham, next, the hard-cooked eggs, chopped 
fine, a layer of white sauce, and last the remainder of the 
spinach. Sprinkle the cheese over the top and set in a hot 
oven until a rich brown. concord, mass. 



MARYLAND CORN PIE 

6 slices bacon 2 tablespoonfuls minced green 

iy2 cupfuls fine dried bread- pepper 

crumbs 2 teaspoonfuls sugar 

6 medium-sized tomatoes 3 tablespoonfuls butter or mar- 

3 large ears com garin 

2 teaspoonfuls salt 

Cook the bacon only partially, then lay two or three pieces 
in the bottom of a baking-dish and the rest around the sides. 
Sprinkle w^ell with the bread-crumbs, using about one cupful, 
add half the tomatoes peeled and cut in slices, and half the 
green pepper. Sprinkle with salt and half the sugar, and dot 
with butter. Over this place a layer of uncooked green corn 
which has been cut from the cob. "When doing this, score 
down the middle of each row with a sharp knife. Sprinkle 
with salt and add bits of margarin; then another layer of 
tomato and seasonings as before. Cover with a thin layer of 
crumbs, dot with butter, and cook about one-half hour in a 
moderate oven. Cheese may be added if liked. 

concord, mass. 



NEW BEETS WITH ORANGE DRESSING 

2 bunches new beets 3 tart oranges 

1 tablespoonful sugar 1 small lemon 

Boil the beets in salted water and slice them thin. Sprinkle 
with the sugar and when cool add the orange and lemon 

juices. PETALUMA, CAL. 



172 



Good Housekeeping's Book op 



NEW SCALLOPED TOMATOES 

1 can tomatoes 1 tablespoonful butter 

1 small onion 2 teaspoonfuls salt 

y^ green sweet pepper 1 tablespoonful sugar 

11^ cupfuls dried bread-crumbs 

Stew the tomatoes, onions, pepper minced fine, and season- 
ings together until tender. Butter a casserole, put in a layer 
of the tomato mixture, then crumbs, and repeat in this way 
till all is used. ]Make the top layer of crumbs, dot with 
butter, and bake half an hour in a moderate oven. 



NEW POTATOES WITH CREAM CHEESE SAUCE 



1 cupful cheese diced 
10 small new potatoes 
1 pint milk 
% teaspoonful salt 



% teaspoonful pepper 
2 tablespoonfuls flour 
1 tablespoonful 
if desired 



minced parsley 



Boil or steam the potatoes with jackets on till done. Drain 
and peel. In the meantime scald the milk, thicken it with 
the flour mixed with a little extra cold milk, and add the 
cheese. Stir till the cheese is melted, add the seasoning and 
potatoes, heat thoroughly, and serve. san luis obispo, cal. 



NEW WAY TO COOK CARROTS 



4 medium-sized carrots 2 tablespoonfuls drippings 

4 tablespoonfuls flour 1 teaspoonful salt 

1 cupful hot water 

Wash and scrape the carrots. Cut in thin slices crosswise. 
Put the drippings into a skillet and brown slightly. Mix the 
carrots with flour and salt so that each slice of earrot is well 
coated with the flour. When the fat has browned, put the 
carrots in the pan and brown slightly. Add hot water and 
turn the fl.ame low, or cook on the back of range until tender, 
about forty minutes. great palls, mont. 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 173 



O'BRIEN AU GRATIN POTATOES 

2^4 eupfuls diced cooked pota- % teaspoonfiil pepper 

toes 5 tablespoonfuls minced green 

1^2 tablespoonfuls flour peppers 

3 tablespoonfuls butter % cupful dry bread-crumbs 

114 eupfuls milk % cupful grated American 

1 teaspoonful salt cheese 

Make a cream sauce of the flour, butter, milk, and season- 
ings ; add the green peppers and cheese ; cook till the cheese 
is melted, and then pour over the potatoes diced rather small. 
Put in a buttered baking-dish, cover with the bread-crumbs, 
and dot with butter and bits of cheese. Brown in the oven. 
Canned pimientoes can be substituted for the peppers. 

BOUND BROOK, N. J. 

ONION SAVORY 

About 1 pound onions I/2 teaspoonful salt 

3 tablespoonfuls butter or mar- % teaspoonful sugar 

garin Y^ teaspoonful pepper 

2 medium-sized tomatoes About % cupful water 

About ^ cupful grated cheese 

Slice tender young onions half an inch thick and saute in 
the butter or margarin until a light brown, turning often to 
avoid scorching. Add the tomatoes, peeled and cut in small 
pieces, the salt, sugar, and pepper, and water to make moist 
enough to simmer. Cook, covered, for about forty-five min- 
utes, stirring occasionally : the product when done should be 
about the consistency of ordinary scalloped tomatoes. Pour 
into a buttered, shallow dish, cover with cheese, and brown 
quickly and richly in a hot oven. To make a substantial main 
course, break four eggs over the top after the cheese is lightly 
browned, first making hollows to hold the eggs. Add a little 
more cheese, and return to the oven until the eggs are set 
and the cheese is melted and browned. concord, mass. 

PAN-ROASTED POTATOES 

6 potatoes Y2 cupful beef-fat 

1 cupful hot water 



174 Good Housekeeping's Book op 

Use potatoes of medium uniform size. Dip each thoroughly 
in the water and fat mixed together. Put on a shallow pie- 
plate in a hot oven, and bake about three-quarters of an hour. 
This method can be used when no roast is at hand with which 
to cook the potatoes, stow, mass. 

PARSNIP TURNOVER 

2 pounds parsnips 1 egg 

2 pounds potatoes 4 tablespoonfuls margarin 

3 tablespoonfuls hot, savory fat % cupful milk 

Salt and pepper 

Pare or scrape parsnips and cut in thick slices, put them 
to boil in plenty of water. Pare potatoes and add them twenty 
minutes later. When all are tender, drain, mash, and season 
with margarin, milk, salt and pepper to taste, and add the 
egg beaten. Have ready in a larger frying-pan the hot, 
savory fat, turn in the parsnip mixture and let it brown 
slowly, lifting it from time to time with a spatula. When 
crisp and golden, fold over like an omelet and serve hot. 

REDDING, CONN. 



SPANISH STRING BEANS 

4 tablespoonfuls fat or drip- 1 tablespoonful flour 

pings 1 chili pepper 

2 large onions 2 pounds green string beans 

2 tomatoes 2 teaspoonfuls salt 

Cook onions, tomatoes, chili pepper and fat together until 
well done and golden brown (slice vegetables thinly). Then 
brown flour, add hot water and beans, and cook one and one- 
half hours, adding salt when half done. pasadena, cal. 

SPINACH WITH GRAVY 

2 quarts spinach • 1 teaspoonful flour 

2 tablespoonfuls butter 1^^ cupfuls meat gravy 

Clean the spinach thoroughly ; steam or cook in a very small 
amount of water until tender. Drain and chop very fine. 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 175 

Return the spinach to a saucepan in which the butter has been 
melted and mixed with the flour. Stir well and add the meat 
graw. This may be any left-over gravy or it may be made 
by dissohdng two bouillon cubes in one and one-half eupfuls 
of boiling water and thickening same with two tablespoonfuls 
of butter and three tablespoonfuls of flour cooked together. 

PARIS, FRANCE. 

SPRING SUCCOTASH 

1 pint canned tomatoes 1 pint canned lima beans 

i^ medium-sized onion 1 pint canned corn 

1 clove 1 tablespoonful butter or mar- 

1 tablespoonful sugar garin 

14 teaspoonful pepper Vi cupful grated cheese 

Strips of cooked bacon 

In a saucepan place the canned tomatoes, add the onion 
minced fine, the clove, sugar and pepper. Cook fifteen min- 
utes, stirring frequently. Then add the canned lima beans 
and corn. Simmer ten minutes longer, add the butter or 
margarin, and serve. To vary pour the prepared and sea- 
soned combination into a buttered baking-dish, cover with 
the grated cheese, and brown richly in a hot oven. Arrange 
long, crisp strips of cooked bacon in a lattice, or radiating 
from the center over the top, as a main dish for luncheon 
or supper. concord, mass. 



SQUAW DISH 

V2 pound bacon }/3 cupful hot milk 

1 cupful corn ^ teaspoonful paprika 

Place strips of thinly cut bacon in a hot frying-pan and 
cook until bacon is crisp and brown, occasionally pouring off 
fat from pan and turning frequently. Remove from fat and 
drain. Leave about four tablespoonfuls of fat in the pan, 
add the milk, then the corn ; cook until soft. If canned corn 
is used, it will not have to be cooked as long as green corn. 
Add paprika and serve in a platter around the bacon. 

NORTH EASTON, MASS. 



176 Good Housekeeping's Book of 



STEWED PARSNIPS 

% pound lean salt pork 3 pints sliced raw parsnips 

2 quarts cold water 3 tablespoonfuls flour 

Pepper to taste 

Cut the salt pork in thin slices, cover with the water, and 
boil for three hours. Half an hour before serving time, add 
the parsnips, and, when they are tender, thicken the mixture 
with the flour wet in a little cold milk. There should be 
three pints of liquid left. If not, water should be added to 
make this amount. Add pepper to taste and, if necessary, 
a little salt. frewsburg, n. y. 

STEWED PUMPKIN WITH TOMATO 

3V^ pounds pumpkin 1 medium-sized onion 

1 quart stewed tomatoes, strained 1 tablespoonf ul margarin 
1 tablespoonful fat 1 tablespoonful flour 

% teaspoonful pepper 2 teaspoonfuls salt 

Toast 

Wash and pare the pumpkin and cut into pieces about two 
inches square. Parboil it for ten minutes. Chop the onion 
and fry it until brown in the fat, using a stew-pan. Add 
the pumpkin, salt, and pepper, and cook for five minutes. 
Then cover the pumpkin with the tomato, and stew gently 
until the pumpkin is quite tender. Arrange the pumpkin on 
a hot dish and thicken the tomato with the margarin and the 
flour cooked together. Add more seasoning if needed and 
pour the sauce thus made over the pumpkin. Garnish with 
thin, narrow strips of toast. This makes a large quantity, 
at least enough to serve ten. Albany, n. y. 

STEWED TOMATOES 

1 quart tomatoes Salt 
y^ minced onion Pepper 

2 cloves Sugar 
Butter Toast 

To the tomatoes add the minced onion, cloves, and salt, pep- 
per, and sugar to taste. Add butter liberally just before 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 177 

taking up, and heat the sauce in which it is to be served. 
After delicately seasoning the stewed tomatoes, you may, if 
you wish, pour it on squares of hot, buttered toast and serve 
as a main dish for luncheon. Or pour over the stewed toma- 
toes a liberal amount of hot buttered croutons the last minute 
just before serving. concord, mass. 

STUFFED POTATOES 

6 medium-sized potatoes Minced ham fat 

1 cupful minced ham % teaspoonful salt 

% small onion chopped Tabasco 

1 tablespoonful minced parsley 1 teaspoonful lemon juice 

Bread-crumbs 

Wash the potatoes thoroughly. Cut a slice off on one side 
and scoop out about half the raw potato. In the potato place a 
layer of minced ham fat and then till with ham seasoned 
in the following way: To the minced ham, add the small 
onion chopped, minced parsley, salt, several dashes of tabasco, 
and the lemon juice. Cover with a few fine bread-crumbs 
and bake in a moderate oven till tender. Philadelphia, pa. 

STUFFED SWEET POTATOES 

Sweet potatoes Sausage meat 

Hot water 

Pare the potatoes, cut them in halves lengthwise, and scoop 
out the centers. Refill with sausage meat, and place together, 
fastening with a bit of string or a toothpick. Place in a 
casserole or covered baking-dish with a little hot water and 
bake from an hour and a half to two hours in a moderate 

oven. TUNKHANNOCK, PA. 



SWEET POTATO AND APPLE 

4 medium-sized sweet potatoes 4 apples, medium-sized 
1 cupful water % cupful brown sugar 

Salt 4 tablespoonfuls butter 

Partially cook sweet potatoes ; cut in dice. Pare, core, and 
cut apples in cubes. Butter a casserole and place in it 



178 Good Housekeeping's Book op 

alternately layers of sweet potatoes sprinkled with salt and 
layers of apple. Pour over them a sirup made by cooking 
the brown sugar and water. Bake covered until done. If 
desired, the top may be garnished with marshmallows and 
returned to the oven to brown. pbimghab, ia. 



TOMATO LUNCHEON CAKES 

3 cupfuls tomatoes 1 tablespoonful fat 

About 4 cupfuls soft bread- 2 teaspoonfuls salt 
crumbs Pepper to taste 

Paprika to taste 

Strain the tomato, and put pulpy part in a stew pan. Place 
over fire, and when heated through, stir in as many bread- 
crumbs as the tomato will absorb. Add the butter, salt, and 
other seasoning. Remove from fire, and allow to cool. Form 
into balls and saute until brown on both sides. Serve with 
tomato sauce made as follows: 

1 cupful tomato juice 1 tablespoonful fat 

1 tablespoonful flour Salt 

Melt the fat, and add the flour gradually. Cook until it 
begins to bubble. Add the tomato juice, a little at a time, 
stirring constantly until thickened. Season to taste. 

BUTTE, MONT. 



TOMATO SUCCOTASH 

1 pint cooked string beans 1 small onion 

1 pint freshly cooked com cut 1^2 teaspoonfuls salt 

from the cob V4 teaspoonful pepper 

5 ripe tomatoes 2 tablespoonfuls butter 

Peel the tomatoes and cut them in small pieces; put them 
on to stew with the onion finely minced and the salt and 
pepper. Add the string beans and cook about twenty to 
thirty minutes, stirring often. Then add the com. Cook 
five minutes after it begins to boil and add butter. If in 
season, surround with alternate small mounds of tiny carrots 
and fresh peas. concord, mass. 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 179 



VEGETABLE HASH 

2 cupfuls cold diced cooked po- 1 small onion 

tatoes 2 tablespoonfuls fat 

1 cupful chopped cooked beets 2 teaspoonfuls salt 

1 cupful chopped cooked caiTots y2 teaspoonful paprika 

y2 cupful chopped cooked meat ^ teaspoonful pepper 

Heat pan thoroughly, and drop in the fat. Brown in this 
the chopped onion, add the potatoes, beets, carrots, and meat. 
Season with salt, pepper, and paprika. Cook until a brown 
crust forms on the bottom, moistening occasionally with a 
little milk or left-over beef gravy. doveb, minn. 



VEGETABLE LL^THEON DISH 

1 pint freshly boiled spinach H teaspoonful salt 

1 tablespoonful hot \"inegar IH cupfuls creamed onions 

2 cupfuls thick stewed tomatoes 

To the spinach arranged on a hot platter and seasoned with 
the vinegar and salt add, surrounding the spinach, the 
creamed onions, surrounding this in turn with the thick stewed 
tomatoes. Garnish, if desired, with hard-cooked eggs. In 
place of the vinegar, butter, salt, and pepper, if preferred, 
may be used. Detroit, mich. 



VEGETARIAN SCRAPPLE 

1 cupful eom-meal i/^ green pepper 

1 medium sized onion 1 cupful chopped peanuts 

1 carrot 3 teaspoonfuls salt 

Combine the corn-meal, chopped onion, carrot, green pep- 
per, and salt. Cook in three and one-half cupfuls of boiling 
water until thick. Just before removing from the fire, add 
the peanuts. Pour into a greased bread pan and let stand 
until thoroughly chilled. Remove from the mold, slice, dip 
in flour, and saute. Serve with tomato or brown sauee.^ 

HOLLYWOOD, cix.. 



Saucepan Discoveries 

DELICIOUS MEAT FLAVOR— Garlic vinegar makes 
meat rich and tender and gives a flavor hard to define. Poor 
into the pores of the meat as much of the vinegar as it will 
absorb. Then brush over with olive oil. It is more eco- 
nomical to make one's own garlic vinegar. Place in a quart 
bottle a small clove of garlic. Fill the bottle with vinegar. 
After about ten days it is ready to use. cal. 

A NOVEL GARNISH— An attractive garnish for cold 
meats or salads may be made by rolling tightly several large 
lettuce leaves and keeping them in a cold place until needed. 
"When ready to sen^e, cut the roll into half-inch pieces, and 
pretty, light-green rosettes will be the result, which add 
greatly to the appearance of the dish. ill. 

WHEN BAKING FISH— When baking fish, I place under 
it several strips of clean white cloth wrung out in cold water 
and extending a little beyond the fish. It is then easy to lift 
it up to the hot platter when ready to be served without the 
fish getting torn or broken apart. This suggestion is also 
good with a meat or fish loaf. Strips of cloth fitted in the 
pan, some of them crossing at right angles, will assist in 
bringing the loaf out safely. mass. 

A NEW CHOCOLATE ICING— I found this chocolate 
icing so delicious and different that I hasten to pass it on 
to others. Use the following proportions : to one-half cupful 
of confectioners' sugar add six tablespoonfuls of cocoa, three 
drops of olive-oil with a pinch of salt, and one-quarter tea- 
spoonful of vanilla. Add sufficient boiling water to make a 
thick, smooth paste and spread on the cake. Try this recipe 
and see if it has not a new taste for you. cal. 

190 



Recipes and Household Discoveries . 181 

QUICK POTATO SOUP— This recipe for potato soup is 
extremely satisfying, and I use it often when the rest of my 
dinner is rather light. To one cupful of half-inch cubes of 
potato add one and one-half cupfuls of water and a pinch of 
salt. Boil until tender. In the meantime fry one small onion 
cut into small pieces with one tablespoonful of fat, until 
golden brown in color. ^Yhen the potatoes are tender, pour 
the liquid into the browned onion and press the potatoes 
through a fine sieve. Add to the liquid together with one- 
half cupful of evaporated milk, one-eighth teaspoonful of 
pepper, and one teaspoonful of salt. Serve hot with or with- 
out croutons. n, j. 

LUKEWARM WATER FOR WASHING VEGETABLES 
— I have found that when washing lettuce and spinach it is 
much better to use lukewarm water. With spinach the luke- 
warm water washes off the sand very quickly, and it is not 
necessary to wash the spinach so many times. With lettuce 
the lukewarm water washes off any insects or dirt, but the 
lettuce should be wrapped in a towel and crisped on ice or 
placed in cold water to freshen afterward. mass. 

BAKED MUSKMELON— When you cut a muskmelon and 
find that it is too green to eat, put into each half, one-half 
tablespoonful of butter and a sprinkling of salt and pepper. 
Bake as if it were a small squash, and you will find that it 
tastes somewhat like one. Or you can cut the melon into thin 
slices, dip them in batter, and fry like eggplant. n. y. 

A PASTRY SPRINKLER— Many women are familiar 
with the perforated aluminum cork-fitted top used on a bottle 
to sprinkle clothes. I have found a new use for it. When 
mixing pastry, it is difficult to add the water in small enough 
quantities to distribute it evenly without making parts of the 
mixture too wet. The sprinkler has solved that problem for 
me. Measure the desired amount of liquid, place it in the 
bottle, and it can then be sprinkled over the pastry easily 
and evenly. N. Y, 

FOR A GARNISH — ^While vacationizing, I was served king 
salmon garnished in a most attractive manner. Very thin 
slices of lemon had one-half of the surface covered with finely 



182 Recipes and Household Discoveries 

minced parsley and the other half thickly powdered with 
paprika. The yellow rind contrasted prettily with the green 
and red of the other ingi*edients. nx. 

TO DRAIN SPINACH— In removing spinach from the 
kettle in which it has been cooked, use a skimmer instead of 
pouring off the water. In this way any sand that has not 
been removed in the "seven washings" will drop to the bot- 
tom of the kettle. md. 

TO SAVE TIME AND TINS— In addition to using stone 
jars for packing eggs in water glass, I now use all the empty 
cans which once held fat or shortening. These I have stored 
in the basement, but keep one can of eggs in the pantry for 
immediate use, thus saving many trips to the basement, c.vl. 

HOW TO USE SWEET PICKLING SIRUP— After eat- 
ing our sweet pickled pears, we used to use the sirup left in 
the jars for baked beans, etc. Lately we have discovered 
that by cutting up apples and using the pickling sirup, we 
have an especially fine apple sauce. We cook the two to- 
gether, and it tastes like the old-fashioned boiled cider apple 
sauce. No additional sugar is required. mass. 

HOW TO POACH EGGS— After struggling for years to 
poach eggs the hotel way, I was told by a chef to put a tea- 
spoonful of vinegar in the water and cover the pan. The 
vinegar keeps the white of the egg from spreading, and the 
covered pan makes the white cook over the yolk. Try it and 
see. PA. 

NEW CREAMED CARROTS— I have discovered by ac- 
cident that one-fourth teaspoonful of ground clove added to 
one pint of cream sauce for creamed carrots adds greatly to 
their flavor. n. y. 



Discoveries 
From Kitchen to Garret 



TO CLEAN A BROILER PAN— I have discovered an 
easy way of cleaning my broiler pan. Just before placing 
the meat on the broiler rack, I cover the bottom of the broiler 
pan with water, thus allowing the fat from the meat to drip 
into the water. This does away with the usual smoky kitchen, 
ah^ the fat never catches fire. When cleaning the pan, the 
water may be allowed to cool and the fat easily removed to 
be used as shortening or for frying purposes. If the fat is 
not to be saved, throw the water away immediately, after 
completing the broiling of the meat, and the pan may be 
cleaned with very little effort. N. Y. 

AN EXCELLENT IRONING SURFACE— To make an 
ironing board on which it is a joy to iron, take one roll of 
cotton batting such as is used for comforts and puffs. Spread 
the cotton batting evenly over the board and fasten over this 
a cover made from unbleached muslin, tacking it down around 
the sides of the board. An extra length of muslin or un- 
bleached cotton which can easily be washed should be used 
as an outer cover. S. d. 

A HELP FOR THE SHOPPER— I keep a drawer in 
my chiffonier empty just to catch the things I shall need on 
my next shopping expedition — a bit of lace to be matched, 
an iron to be repaired, shoes to be soled, a picture to be 
framed. You know the thousand and one things you have 
to scurry around after at the last minute. My plan is to 
drop these things in this drawer as they come to my notice. 
When the time comes for me to take them, I can get them 
together in record time. This saves nerves as weU as time. 

AID. 

183 



184 Good Housekeeping's Book of 

FOR THE RECIPE FILE— In the interest of economy 
I have gone over all of my recipes in the card index and 
made sub-titles for easy reference to such things as egglesa 
cakes, one-egg recipes, recipes calling for the whites of eggs 
only, those in which the yolks alone are used, and those in 
which sour milk is an ingredient. Other classifications sug- 
gest themselves from time to time. Recently I have added 
a list of company dishes, ten-minute dishes from the emergency 
shelf, foods that may be made in quantity, and Sunday night 
Buppers. One of my cards is devoted to the likes and dislikes 
of my friends in the culinary line, thus enabling me to play 
the part of hostess with greater precision. mich. 

THE TYPEWRITER IN THE KITCHEN— Before I 
was married I used a typewriter professionally. After I was 
married I found that the only place I had in my apartment 
for the typewriter was a small table in the kitchen. Now I 
often wonder how other women do without a machine. I make 
out my laundry lists, I copy recipes on my cards that slip 
into my card catalogue, I make out my grocery lists, and often 
I write letters or copy work for my husband while the meat 
is cooking. If the machine were in the front of the house, 
I should not make nearly so much use of it. mass. 

A SUSPENDED GARBAGE PAIL CANNOT SPILL— 

Better than all the patented unspillable garbage pails on the 
market is an ordinary one suspended two feet from the ground. 
Every one in the country or village has been bothered by 
prowling dogs spilling the contents of the garbage pail all 
over the porch or back yard. One housewife solved the prob- 
lem by putting a hook in the branch of a tree and tying a 
length of rope to it. Then to the end which hung within two 
feet of the ground, she attached a large hook upon which the 
pail was placed. The garbage collector never finds this par- 
ticular pail molested by dogs, nor does he have to bend over 
to pick it up. Best of all, however, the housewife does not 
have to clean up spilled garbage every now and then. n. y. 

FOR RIPENING FRUIT OR VEGETABLES— When 
ripening fruit or vegetables in the house, I place them over 
a wire cake rest, which is slightly raised from the surface of 
the table. In this way the air oompletely Burrounds the fruit 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 185 

or vegetables, and there is no trouble of turning them over, 
and no bruises resulting from the pressure of a peach or 
tomato on a hard, flat surface. mass. 

PUMPKIN "NUTS"— Recently I served an entirely orig- 
inal salad, which proved so delicious that my guests insisted 
upon knowing what kind of nuts I had used. I rather proudly 
confessed that the "nuts" were nothing at all but the inside 
of the seeds removed from a large pumpkin the last time I 
made pumpkin pie. The rest of the salad was tart apples 
cut in cubes and served with French dressing. col. 

TO CLEAN THE FOOD-GRINDER— Try cleaning the 
food-grinder with the little brush that comes with the coffee 
percolator, and see what a great help it is, CAL. 

TO KEEP BROWN SUGAR MOIST— I happened to 
place a pound of brown sugar which had become very hard 
in a covered dish with prunes. When I took the sugar out 
later, I found it as soft as when purchased. Any fruit will 
yield the same moisture and suggests a sure method for keep- 
ing the sugar moist. mass. 

A NEW WELSH RAREBIT— Did it ever occur to you 
to try croutons in place of toast when serving Welsh Rarebit ? 
Cut the bread into small dice and fry or toast in the oven 
until dry and crisp. Sprinkle plenty of them on each plate 
and serv^e the Welsh Rarebit over them. Croutons give just 
the proper crunchy background for the rarebit and can be 
eaten easily without the dangers that lurk in the hidden slice 
of toast. o. 

WHEN COOKING FISH— The smeU of fish often lingers 
in a pan in which it has been cooked, and is very disagreeable. 
If the pan is filled with water to which two or three table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar have been added, and is allowed to stand 
or, better, to boil a minute or two before washing, the odor 
will quickly disappear. D. 0. 



Discoveries fdr the Hostess 



NOVEL PLACE-CARDS— When giving a dinner, I found 
that I had no place-cards of any kind in the house, so I set 
about to make some myself. I cut up some green cardboard 
three inches by one and one-half inches. Then I opened a 
package of soup noodles containing the tiny white letters of 
the alphabet. These can be purchased at practically any 
grocery store. 1 pasted these letters on the green sards with 
library paste, spelling out the names of the guests, one on 
each card. These place-cards were put on the napkin at the 
side of each plate. None of the company could guess how I 
procured the raised letters spelling their names, and much 
amusement and admiration was afforded. If the cardboard 
matches the color scheme of the table decoration, you could 
not ask for daintier place-cards. mich. 

A CHARMING USE FOR CANDLESTICKS— Recently, 
at a delightful "at home" at an old farmhouse, I saw a 
charming use made of our hostess' many old candlesticks. 
Refreshments were served on several quaint little tables, and 
on each table was a candlestick, and occasionally a candelabra, 
with little vials filled with sweet peas instead of candles. 
Upon inquiry, I learned that the vials were the straight, 
perfectly plain test-tubes designed for laboratory use. They 
may be or usually are bought at a drug store. In all the 
chambers were candlesticks filled with flowers and little vines 
suited to the decoration of the room. This seemed a dainty 
way of using the candlesticks which so many of us have. mass. 

A COTTON WEDDING— The table decorations for this 
vedding anniversary were unusually clever, I thought. The 
young hostess used a red bandana handkerchief for a center- 
piece, and in the middle of it she placed a bale of cotton 
that she had made from cotton batting and burlap. This 

186 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 187 

was about the size of a brick, and standing on it was a little, 
jointed pickaninny groom and his bride, in cotton clothes 
but wearing a tall silk hat and a veil. From their hands 
to each cover extended strands of red darning cotton, fastened 
to small baskets the shape of the cotton basket of the South. 
These contained salted nuts, but on top of them, covering the 
nuts, was more cotton. The first course was a circle of little 
round balls cut from a watermelon with a vegetable cutter, 
around a mound of powdered sugar on the top of which were 
perched tiny licorice dolls. The main course was fried chicken, 
candied sweet potatoes, and beaten biscuits. penn. 

MUTUAL ASSISTANCE IN ENTERTAINING— Ineffi- 
cient help made formal entertaining a nightmare of nervous 
strain and uncertain disaster, until a friend of mine and I 
hit upon a plan of mutual assistance. Now, when I am giving 
a formal dinner, my friend arrives about an hour before the 
time set for dinner. When she has made herself familiar 
with the details of the menu and its service, I have no further 
responsibility about the meal. When the guests have arrived, 
she superintends the ser\dng of the various courses and sees 
that all is done properly, thus leaving me to enjoy my guests 
with a tranquil mind. When she entertains, I perform the 
same service for her. Neither of us finds this an arduous 
task, and entertaining has become a real joy instead of a 
bugbear. mich. 

FOR THE CHILDREN'S PARTY— For a children's 
party we made twelve small, blue linen beanbags, marking 
each one with a cross-stitch combination of letters for each 
little guest. At the conclusion of the bean-bag tossing each 
child was presented with his own bag to take home. The 
favors cost little and took but little trouble to put together 
and the pleasure they gave was out of all proportion, mich. 

FOR THE BRIDAL SHOWER— A box of the homelier 
linen for kitchen use is sure to meet with enthusiastic accept- 
ance at a bride's shower. The one in question contained 
half a dozen each of glass towels, china towels, dusters, and 
dish-cloths, besides a floor cloth and two roller towels. The 
cheesecloth dusters were featherstitched with blue cotton, the 
borders of all the towels were in blue, and each package waa 



188 Recipes and Household Discoveries 

tied with blue ribbon to give a festive appearance to the box 
in which they just fitted. n. y. 

THE CHRISTMAS PLACE-CARD— For my Christmas 
place-cards, I bought ten penny postal cards on which were 
pictures of Christmas trees and Santa Claus. With small, 
sharp scissors, I cut out the figures carefully, leaving a small 
piece of the card at the bottom of each figure. Then I folded 
this piece back and pasted the figures on plain visiting cards 
with the name of the guest written on each card. The same 
could be done for children's parties. N. Y. 

A NOVEL CAKE COVER— Eighty candles on a cake 
were desired for the centerpiece of the long table for the 
birthday dinner party, but it seemed impossible until some 
one thought of a cake cover. The cake itself was a large, 
old-fashioned fruit cake. The stores were searched until a 
granite pan of the right size and shape was found. The cake 
had been iced as usual. The pan was used bottom side up, 
the bottom and sides covered with a thick layer of plaster of 
Paris and the candles inserted in the plaster in a planned 
pattern. The plaster was put on in small sections and the 
candles inserted quickly to prevent its becoming too hard. 
After the plaster was dry, a thin coating of icing was put 
over the plaster, and a design tubed around the candles to 
prevent any roughness being noticeable. The cake was placed 
on a round cake board on the table, the plaster candle cover 
put over it and smilax at the base. The eighty candles, 
yellow in color and about three inches in height, were very 
effective. A gasp of surprise went around the table when at 
the proper moment the cover was lifted and the cake remained 
on the table intact. This idea can be worked out for smaller 
cakes. N. Y. 



Cooking Discoveries 

A NEW BIRTHDAY CAKE— The birthday cake for my 
small daughter, this year, elicited such favorable comment 
from the gi-own-ups who saw it that I felt the idea might be 
a "discovery" on my part. I covered the cake with boiled 
icing and let it harden. Then I took a water-color brush, 
dipped it into melted chocolate, and made a border of small 
objects in silhouette — cats, birds, etc. — around the sides of 
the cake. As the day was very near Christmas, I painted a 
Christmas tree on top with the small girl's name and age. 
The tiny candles on the top and a spray of smilax around 
the base made the whole quite effective. The joy of the 
youngsters was unbounded, and they insisted upon turning 
the cake around and around, shouting over each new dis- 
covery. ORE. 

MASHED EICE AND POTATOES— In an attempt to 
economize in the use of potatoes, I discovered that a whole- 
some and appetizing dish may be prepared by using a com- 
bination of potatoes and rice. Use four mediiun-sized pota- 
toes to one-half cupful of rice. Boil the potatoes and the rice 
separately until tender. Mash and season the potatoes, then 
add the rice, and beat until smooth and creamy. The result- 
ing dish is hard to distinguish from one composed wholly of 
potatoes, and the taste is just as satisfjdng. mass. 

TO KEEP ]MY RECIPES CLEAN— The cooking recipes 
from my filing case came back from the kitchen so defaced 
that they could be used only a few times before having to be 
replaced. "What was far worse, they were often lost through 
neglect in their prompt return. I bought a photographer's 
printing frame large enough to hold two recipes, and sent 
them to the cook in that. I had no more trouble, and the 
maid was delighted with the arrangement, for she could 

189 



190 Good Housekeeping's Book of 

handle the frame freely with floury hands, knowmg that a 
damp cloth would remove all signs of soil. mass. 

The institute uses slate frames which may be purchased for 
about twenty-five cents apiece, each frame holding one or two 
recipes according to their size. 

BACONIZED MACARONI AND CHEESE— Our family 
enjoys baked macaroni with cheese much better when strips 
of raw bacon are placed over the top of the dish just before 
putting it in the oven. mass. 

NEW USE FOR GEM PANS— Grease your gem pans 
and use them when baking apples, green peppers, tomatoes, 
onions, etc. It keeps these fruits and vegetables in much 
better shape, and they look more appetizing when served. 

MICH. 

TO DROP THE COOKIES EASILY— When making 
cookies or drop cakes, try using a teaspoon. Dip it in hot 
or cold water each time before putting in the mixture, and 
the dough will slide from the spoon without the aid of a 
knife or other spoon to push it. me. 

TO CUT ]\1ARSHMALL0WS— I recently found a way 
to cut marshmallows into tiny pieces without having them 
stick to the scissors. I dip my scissors into very cold, prefer- 
ably ice-cold water and use them without drying. It is pos- 
sible to cut six or eight marshmallows without again dipping 
the scissors. The work may be done very rapidly, as the 
marshmallows do not stick to the scissors. ia. 

A NEW WAY TO SERVE CORN FLAKES— Serving 
corn flakes with a tablespoon is always a slow and difficult 
task and usually results in many flakes spilled. On our 
breakfast table we now have a large glass pitcher full of 
corn flakes and pour them from this into the sauce dishes. 
The glass pitcher of corn flakes looks very attractive and 
reduces to a minimum the serving problem. mass. 

TO VARY FRENCH DRESSING— Have you tried using 
for salads your relishes and chow-chow that you have put 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 191 

up this fall ? Put two or three tablespoonf uls in your French 
dressing and pour it over a head of crisp lettuce. You will 
be surprised how good it is, and if it is the last of a jar 
and is quite moist, just mix your oil with the vinegar from 
the pickles. N. Y. 

A PLANNED LUNCHEON— Do you realize how many 
housewives, when they must eat alone at noon time, are apt 
to eat in the kitchen, or not at all, because it is too much 
trouble for one person? I have worked out a very nice plan 
for myself. I carry a tray to the silver drawer, take the 
necessary silver for my lunch, put the necessary dishes on it, 
and take the things I need from the icebox, putting my 
dessert on at the same time. Then I take my tray into the 
dining-room and enjoy my lunch. When I have finishedj I 
carry my tray with me, putting things in their proper places. 
I wonder if you realize how many, many steps this saves, 
and how little time it takes. pa. 

TO REMOVE PAPER FROM DATES— Take off the 
cardboard wrapping and place the package of dates in a 
warm oven for a few minutes. The paper comes off like 
magic, and the dates are softened just enough to come apart 
and stone easily, without being at all sticky. colo. 

HOW TO KEEP OILED PAPER— I have discovered a 
simple and satisfactory way of handling oiled paper. I un- 
roll the sheets and fasten one end of all of them into a skirt- 
hanger with felt grips and hang it on a nail on one side of 
the cupboard. When I want a sheet, instead of the old way 
of unrolling all the sheets to get one, I simply slip one out 
of the skirt-hanger. minn. 

RICE AND PEANUT BUTTER, A NEW COMBINA- 
TION — Boil one-half cupful of rice until tender, in boiling, 
salted water. Pour over it one pint of thin white sauce, to 
which one-half cupful of peanut butter has been added. 
You will find this a tasty combination. wash. 



Summer Discoveries 



FOR THE GARBAGE PAIL— I have found the foUqw- 
ing discovery a great help in ridding the garbage pail of all 
flies large or small, as well as remoAong any objectionable odor 
about the can. Cut a piece of thin cloth just large enough 
to cover the opening of the garbage can. Wet this cloth 
slightly in kerosene and spread over the top of the can with 
the cover on top of the cloth. Renew the wetting with kero- 
sene once every two weeks. ill. 

FOR THE KIDDIES' SAND-BOX— Nothing gives more 
pleasure in the sand-box than a number of assorted spoons, 
but they are very easily lost when the children are playing. 
So I tie a half-yard of bright baby ribbon, red for the boy 
and yellow for the girl, on the handle of each spoon. Now, 
no matter how deep the spoons are buried, there is always 
a bit of ribbon visible to trace the spoon by. cal. 

WAX YOUR PORCH FLOOR— In the summer I have 
my porches thoroughly scrubbed and washed. Then I have 
them waxed with any of the good floor waxes. After this 
treatment the floors are polished with a polishing brush just 
as one would do in polishing hardwood floors. This method 
preserves the floor, and after the porch is treated in this 
manner one does not have to put water on it during the 
entire season. Have the porch gone over daily with a broom 
or a floor mop. Much time is saved thus in hot weather, and 
a porch treated in this manner always looks well. pa. 

ONE MEANS OF MORE PRIVACY— ^^en living in 
apartment houses, as so many do, it is often necessary to 
devise ways and means to secure privacy. We have found 
that by putting a thin coat of good white paint on the out- 
side of the window screens, it is easy to look out, but those 
on the outside can not look in. Try this for yourself. ga. 

192 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 193 

A HANDY SALT OR PEPPER SHAKER— A handy 
salt, pepper, or sugar carrier for hiking or camping is made 
by sawing from a bamboo stick a section seven or eight inches 
in length, having a joint in the center. Fill one end with 
salt and the other with sugar or pepper. Then insert a cork 
in each end. o. 

FOR THE TRAVELER— If you are living temporarily 
in a boarding house or doing light housekeeping and must 
use a bathroom with others, you will find the following^ a 
great help. Purchase a shallow basket of the sandwich 
variety, place in this the few needful things required daily 
for the toilet — such as soap, a tooth-brush, tooth-paste, pow- 
der, etc. You can hang the basket on your arm and trip off 
to the bathroom fully assured that your toilet will not neces- 
sitate two or three trips to your room before you can begin it. 
One is also relieved of the clumsy overcrowding of the hands, 
which so often means dropping things on the way, and then 
the awkward scramble to recover them in a dimly lighted, 
dusty hall. Whether the basket is kept on the dresser or in 
a closet, you will never know until you try it how satisfactory 
it is to have these toilet articles grouped together. Such a 
basket may be as decorative as one cares to make it. It may 
revel in ribbons and artificial flowers with color schemes bor- 
rowed from the bedroom of its owner, or it may be as plain as 
mine, wearing a coat of white enamel paint with a whito linen 
doily with a scalloped edge in the bottom. conn. 

PICNIC SALAD — ^When going on little picnic suppers 
— especially in a machine, where one eats by the roadside or 
in the car seat — individual paper drinking cups are most 
satisfactory as containers for salads. The salad may be 
packed in the individual paper cups and garnished attrac- 
tively with a sprig of parsley stuck in one side. They always 
call forth favorable comments and are not messy to handle, 
and each person has his own portion easily handed out. d. c. 

QUICK CLEANING— White shoes are too comfortable 
and popular to be discarded, and yet it is very difficult to 
keep them immaculate, particularly children's shoes. I keep 
a piece of magnesia available at all times ; then if the toes 
of the children's shoes become discolored, grass-stained, or 



194 Recipes and Household Discoveries 

mud-splashed, I quickly rub over the spot with magnesia » 
that the shoes do not look untidy until the entire shoe can b 
cleaned at night. A large piece of magnesia can be purchase( 
at any drug store for five or ten cents. mass 

FOR THE WINDOW SCREENS— If the screens am 
casings of windows are lightly rubbed over with a clot) 
moistened in kerosene every day or two, the flies will no 
collect on the outside of the dooi*s ready to swarm in th 
instant the doors are open. This is a particularly easy wa^ 
of keeping flies out of the house where there are small childrei 
running in and out. Not enough kerosene should be appliec 
to be noticeable by anybody but the flies. wash 

FOR THE CANNING SEASON— Last year, when wi 
were urged to can quantities of everything, the problem o 
sufficient containers plus the expense for only a few seasons 
use, confronted me. Finally, I assembled quite an array o 
the little jars which one buys from time to time containin{ 
peanut butter, prepared mustard and horseradish, fanc^ 
pickles, and relishes, and was only discouraged when I foum 
how difficult it was to get the marmalade, butters, and chil 
sauce into them. The fruit jar funnel was too large, and ai 
ordinary funnel too small. While casting about for ai 
inspiration, mj^ glance rested upon an inverted cakepan ii 
which an angel cake was cooking, and there was my answer 
The center tube provided just the funnel I needed. Also 
the bottom of the inverted pan saved the loss of many i 
spoonful. lA 



"Keeping Fit" Discoveries 

A DAY OFF FOR MOTHER— Like most housekeepers 
I long pondered on the fact that in my home I never had a 
moment when I was really relaxed and free from the feeling 
that at any minute I might be called upon. Even when in 
tny OAvn bedroom, some of the family were sure to burst in 
with a momentous question to be answered at once. And yet 
I would not have had it otherwise. One of the dearest things 
in my life is the fact that the first words my husband 
and children utter upon entering the house are "Where is 
mother?" Not for eons of rest would I curb their habit of 
pouring out to me the day's adventures; not for worlds 
would I discourage my husband in the belief that my office 
from the time he arrives in the evening is to talk to him, to 
listen to him, or just to sit beside him. For this is my office : 
bo be all that a mother and wife may be to her family. But 
the conviction has certainly been growing upon me that I 
would fill it better if I did not fill it so continuously. I 
turned the matter over in my mind until I hit upon a solution 
30 simple that I wonder that I had not thought of it before. 
[ would take a day off. Not a day in the city, nor one of 
social diversion, but a day of absolute rest at home, I chose 
Friday, because by that time the week's duties are well out 
3f the way, and because Saturday and Sunday are my most 
strenuous days. 

Immediately after lunch on Fridays I retire with instruc- 
tions that I am out to all callers and the phone, and that 
unless the house is actually in flames no one is to come to my 
ioor. If you have not tried it, you simply can not imagine the 
bliss of knowing that for the next nine hours you will not 
hear a human voice. I put on a frivolous dressing-gown and 
slippers and go to sleep in the unspeakable delight of feeling 
that I do not have to awaken until the next morning. So, 
3f course, I do awaken in about an hour, very much refreshed, 

195 



196 Good Housekeeping's Book op 

and then I revel in my ease. I manicure my nails; I cold- 
cream my face; I read the magazines and the new books, 
At four o'clock there is a tap at my door, I open it leisurely, 
and though no one is in sight, the tea tray reposes before m€ 
with its fat little pot and its plate of toast. I drink my tea 
slowly and then sit down to write a long, newsy letter to a 
college friend whose letters, before the new regime, I jusi 
never had time to answer. At six-thirty there comes another 
tap, and my dinner is before me. It is part of the game thai 
my children, who bring up my trays, never allow me to sei 
them doing it. At ten o'clock I emerge to say good-nighl 
to my family, and the holiday is over for another week. II 
is a splendid plan. Never since I was married have I dom 
so much work without getting tired; never have I been sc 
well posted on current writing and events. And it has 
advantages that I did not foresee when I instituted it. 

At dinner on Friday night my twelve-year-old daughter 
sits in my place at the table and takes care of her father's 
wants and entertains him. I am sure she is learning, easilj 
and naturally, lessons that will stand her in good stead wher 
she is the head of her own home. After dinner my husband 
having no wife to turn to, talks to the children more thai 
usual. They, having no lessons to prepare, have time to plaj 
with Dad, and from the sounds that rise dimly to my ears 
I gather that they are having as good a time without m( 
as I am without them. Yes, it is a splendid plan, and 1 
pass it on to other women to adjust and modify to suit theii 
own needs. I can assure them that it is worth any amounl 
of tonics, and I feel that it has helped the rest of the family 
almost as much as it has me. The children are learning 
to cooperate and to take responsibility, and a sweeter air oi 
mutual helpfulness has pervaded the household since mother 
began her days off. pa 

TO CULTIVATE A CLOTHES SENSE— Livmg in the 
country and not being blessed with "Clothes sense," I find 
it hard to dress correctly. Once I discovered, after having 
had a hat for a whole season, that I had worn it with th€ 
front to the back. Determined that it should never happen 
again, I now have snapshots taken of my new clothes and 
hats and study the results, comparing the pictures with the 
illustrations on fashion sheets. It is surprising how illu- 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 197 

minating it is. A hat requires setting forward over the face. 
Collars are not even on each side. Skirts are too long and 
the narrow ones not pulled down smoothly. Slouching spoils 
the fit of some garments. These are the stories the snapshots 
sometimes tell me, and they have been a great help to me 
in correcting my manner of dress. QUE. 

TO PREVENT CHAPPED HANDS— Doing my own 
household work, sweeping, dishwashing, etc., always gave 
me chapped hands during the winter months, no matter in 
what quantity or how good the remedy I used for them each 
night, until I thought of liquid soap containers. Now I have 
one over the kitchen sink and one in the bathroom. Each 
one contains a pure glycerin with a few drops of carbolic 
acid and rose water, and it is the simplest matter to put a 
drop on each hand every time I wash my hands. This keeps 
the hands in perfect condition and does not make them sticky, 
as the moisture from the recent washing prevents this con- 
dition, o. 

SELF-EDUCATION— No doubt there are many married 
women and mothers, too, who feel as I do the desire for some 
sort of educational work, yet can not spare the time or 
strength for going to and from classes. I have achieved the 
same result in taking work by correspondence from our state 
university. Most of the leading universities now offer cor- 
respondence courses in Domestic Science as well as in Liter- 
ature and History, which are a great help to any woman and 
may be continued even after baby comes to the home. By 
going to the university for examination after completing a 
course, credit will be given for regular college work, and the 
inspiration obtained by the close contact with the personality 
of the instructor through weekly letters of instruction is often 
greater than the classroom affords. wis. 



Every-Day Discoveries 

TO KEEP THE LAUNDRESS HAPPY— My laundress 
has forsaken many of her places and stayed with me despite 
the heavy wash. In common with most people she is very 
fond of music, and while she is ironing in the kitchen, I 
wheel the victrola into the dining-room and play our best 
records. Not only does she appreciate it keenly, but I believe 
she accomplishes more than she would in a quiet atmos- 
phere. N, J. 

A NEW USE FOR SANDPAPER— The screw top on my 
oil stove tank had tightened so that I could not unscrew it. 
I had no wrench, and even a wrench would have bent the tin. 
Quick mental searching led me to get a piece of sandpaper, 
which I held in my hand over the screw top, and I found 
that it turned with little effort. fla. 

FOR PILLING YOUR OIL STOVE— For the oil stove 
without a strainer on the tank, I have discovered an excellent 
substitute. Have your hardware dealer put a fine-meshed 
wire sieve into the funnel you use to fill the tank with. The 
pipes carrying the oil to the burners will not then become 
clogged with sediment. tex. 

A NEW USE FOR YOUR PIRELESS COOKER RACK 

— It has always been a surprise to me that so few owners of 
fireless cookers know how useful the pie rack is for carrying 
pies for picnic lunches. Slip the pies in and then drop the 
rack into a pail or a pasteboard box. Even the * * open-faced ' ' 
kind may be carried in this way without damage. kans. 

HOW I USE MY ALARM CLOCK— I find that an alarm 
clock can be used during the day as well as to help one rise 
early in the morning. Often, when baking, I set it as a 
reminder to look into my oven, when doing bits of work, in 

198 



Recipes and Household Discoveries 199 

another part of the house. This saves many a cake from 
scorching. Frequently I have just a few minutes to lie down 
and relax. I set the alarm clock at the time I must go to 
work again, and find that the rest is more beneficial when 
I do not have to worry about resting too long. I also use 
my alarm clock in taking doses of medicine which come 
several hours apart. The alarm clock has become a most 
valuable household article. cal. 

A SUGGESTION FOR IRONING— I find a thick pad 
made about three times the size of an ordinary holder a 
most useful article. I keep it with the ironing board, and 
when I have a bit of embroidery such as is often found on 
a towel, a collar, or underwear, I press it on this pad, and 
the embroidery stands out beautifully. mass. 

HEM]\IING TABLE-CLOTHS— When preparing to hem 
table linen, save all the threads that are pulled in straighten- 
ing the edge. Then, when the linen comes to the mending 
st^ge, use these threads you have saved to darn it with. The 
result is that the mended place is scarcely noticeable because 
of the linen thread being used instead of cotton. lA. 

TO HELP WITH THE MENDING— Before sending the 
laundry I always check off on the list each article that needs 
mending. Then I do not have to unfold all the things after 
they are ironed, to find which ones are in need of repairs. 

conn. 

HOW TO WASH WINDOWS RAPIDLY— A profes- 
sional house cleaner once told me how to wash my windows 
easily and rapidlj''. Use a piece of chamois skin about fifteen 
to eighteen inches square. Use warm water, wring out the 
chamois lightly, and wash over the vsdndow. Then wring the 
chamois out of water until as dry as possible, and rub over 
the window. This will take off all moisture, and there will 
be no lint left. The windows will shine, and once tried, you 
will never wash your windows by the old way. s. d. 

SAVE ALL SCRAPS OP TOILET SOAP— Save all 
scraps of toilet soap and shaving soap. When you have 
accumulated a sufficient quantity, put them on the stove with 



200 Eecipes and Household Discoveries 

water enough to cover. Let boil slowly until they fonn a 
thick mass, then pour into a square pan, and when partly 
cool, cut into squares. This makes an excellent bath soap or 
soap for toilet uses when it has dried for two weeks. s. d. 

NEVER MISS YOUR TRAIN— My husband has very 
irregular office hours and never knew, when he left the office, 
what train he could get home. You will naturally say, * ' Why 
doesn't he carry a time-table?" and I shall answer, "Because 
he is averse to carrying any excess baggage in his pockets." 
So I devised a scheme whereby he does not have to run to 
the station only to find that he has ten minutes to spare, or, 
on the other hand, meander to the depot only to find that 
he has just missed a train. I have him buy his commutation 
ticket a day or so before the first of the month, and then I 
typewrite on the back of it the leaving time of all the trains 
that stop at our station. By quickly referring to his watch 
and then his ticket, which he always has handy, he is able 
to decide how many more minutes he can spend at the office 
and still have time to buy the evening paper and get the train. 
So now he is able to utilize a greater part of his time either 
at the office or at home, instead of wasting a few moments 
now and a few more then, waiting in the railroad station. 

N. Y. 

TO WASH COLORED FABRICS— In order to preserve 
the delicate colors in wash frocks, I select a warm, sunshiny 
day. After the dress has soaked in salt water — if this is its 
first bath — I quickly wash it, hang it on a wire coat-hanger, 
and attach it to the limb of a shade tree. The dress may be 
pulled into shape, and if stretched downward, will shrink 
very little. The warm breeze soon dries it. ky. 

TO REMOVE THE WATER MARK FROM A GLASS 
VASE — I have discovered that a few drops of olive oil or 
any other oil, rubbed inside a glass vase where the water 
mark is evident, will prevent the mark from appearing again. 

NEBB. 



Thrift Discoveries 



TO IRON NAPKINS— I get the best results in ironing 
napkins by what may seem a "lazy-squaw way." When the 
napkins are dry, I do not sprinkle them, but dip and wring 
out every third napkin in clear, wai*m water. I place each 
wet napkin between two dry ones, fold, and roll the three 
napkins tightly together. In twenty minutes they will be 
ready to iron, all equally damp from hem to center. Next, 
fold each napkin right side out, with hems together, and iron 
double till dry. In this way the comers are easily kept 
square, and a good gloss is secured. Of course, when there 
is embroidery it must be pressed from the wrong side first. 

NEBR. 

TO STRENGTHEN A SCALLOP— When button-holing 
a scallop on fine material, I stitch around the entire scallop- 
ing with the machine. This strengthens and prevents any 
tearing between scallops. It has proved a quicker way than 
any I have tried. b. c. 

WASHING WOODWORK— I save time when washing 
woodwork in my home by using a piece of tin about twelve 
inches long to protect the wall-paper from the wet cloth. 
I move it along the wall above the board while I work. At 
first I tried cardboard, but the dampness soon caused the 
paper to rub off, while the tin lasts indefinitely. conn. 

NETTING FOR BABY CARRIAGE— In criticism of the 
familiar discovery of a mother who had proved the value of 
dark green mosquito netting in place of white for the baby's 
carriage the Discovery Editor would add the caution that the 
netting should be fastened with thumb tacks or have an elas- 
tic run through the edge, so that it would be held taut and 
the baby could not reach it. The green netting overcomes the 

201 



202 Good Housekeeping's Book of 

sun's glare and is too beneficial to the child's eyes to be dis- 
carded without an endeavor to use it with safety to his 
precious little stomach. the editor. 



AN ADJUSTABLE APRON— Long experience in selling 
aprons at a church fair has shown me that the slip-over bib 
apron with strings is the best seller. But often the length 
of the bib is not right, and this causes the loss of a sale. 
At our last bazaar we made the bibs adjustable. Each one 
was cut four inches longer than the pattern and simply basted 
in place on the belt. When a prospective purchaser slipped 
it on, the bib was properly adjusted and then immediately 
stitched into place on the church sewing machine. wash. 



A SEWING HELP— Both time and trouble are saved 
by simply placing an ordinary three-arm towel-rack above 
the right end of the sewing-machine. On this rack can be 
hung the sewing-tape, et cetera, and pieces of unfinished goods 
which otherwise slip on the floor beneath the machine. With 
this time-saver, the machine must be kept in its permanent 
position where the rack will always serve it. n. y. 

MASCULINE APRONS— A study of my laundry list re- 
vealed the fact that men's aprons cost three cents each to 
launder — they are done flat — while the smallest amount for 
which women's aprons are done is t«n cents. So I have 
bought a dozen butcher's aprons, small size, on sale at nine- 
teen cents, and am using them for kitchen purposes. I keep 
them fresh and white at a total cost of forty-five cents a month 
—one apron every two days. cal. 



MEASURING SHORTENING— My best discovery is a 
quick way to measure shortening. When one-half cup of 
shortening is called for, I fill the measuring cup one-half full 
of water, then drop in shortening until the water comes to 
the top. Drain this off, and one-half cup of shortening 
remains. It takes far less time than to pack it down into 
the cup, and it really conserves fat, because there is none lost 
by sticking to the sides of the cup. wis. 



Kecipes ajstd Household Discoveries 203 

TO DARN STOCKINGS— To the mother who has her 
boy 's stockings to darn, let me suggest a real time-saver. Use 
black mosquito netting as a foundation. ida. 

FOR THE ENTERTAINER— A friend of mine who 
entertains a great deal has lightened the labor of serving by 
having light trays of thin white pine made to fit her card 
tables. These are finished with a narrow molding, then are 
stained. While the last game is in progress, the trays are 
laid with linen covers and served. They are so light that 
the maid can easily bring in one tray at a time and remove 
them when the refreshments have been partaken of. tex. 

FOR THE MAGAZINE CLUB— We have made a rule 
that has proved so universally popular that it deserves to 
be passed on. Instead of each member delivering the mag- 
azine to the next member on her list, we place the burden 
of obtaining the magazine upon the latter. Each member must 
go and get lier magazine. This plan has surprisingly reduced 
the number of complaints from lack of promptness. colo. 

A TIME-SAVING LUNCHEON— When I need to get a 
hurry-up luncheon, I nearly always make cheese timbales and 
in this way: Butter as many individual timbale molds as 
there are people to serve ; slice into them small bits of cheese 
till one-third full. Allow one-third cupful of mUk for every 
two timbales, in the proportion of one cup of milk to two 
eggs. Beat the eggs and milk with salt and pepper to season ; 
then pour it over the cheese, filling each dish not quite to 
the top, since they swell in cooking. Place the molds in a 
pan of hot water, cover closely, and let come to a boil. Next 
put a small tin oven over the second burner and slide in 
some bread to toast. Just as soon as the water around the 
timbales boils and the custards begin to "set," remove the 
pan, still covered, to the top of the tin oven, where it con- 
tinues to cook as well as, if not better than, over the burner. 
This leaves one burner free to heat water for tea or cocoa. 
IMeantime the table can be set and a quick salad may be made. 
But the main part of the luncheon consists of the timbales 
garnished with parsley and toast. If you serve the timbales 
in the molds, you may use the milk and eggs in the pro- 
portion of one cup of milk to one egg. Thus with a two- 



204 Recipes and Household Discoveries 

burner oil or gas stove, a meal both appetizing and nourish 
ing is prepared in a remarkably short time. ore 

AN ICE-BAG FOR THE THROAT— I use a fifteen 
inch length of the inner tube of a bicycle tire for a makeshif 
ice-bag. One end of it can be securely sealed with surgeon 'i 
tape, while the other should be left open for filling with th( 
ice. Close it with a temporary seal of surgeon 's tape. ia 



"Home Helps" Discoveries 

MAKING ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES MORE CON- 
VENIENT — In our home the lighting fixtures were so higt 
up that it was with difiSeulty that I could attach electric 
appliance cords to them. I also objected to seeing these un- 
sightly cords so prominently displayed when using any elec- 
tric devices. I called an electrician and asked him if he 
could not run wires up to the bottom of my table from the 
floor and arrange several places for attaching appliances 
underneath the table at the place I occupy, at the same time 
having them concealed by the table edge. This he did by 
parting the seams of my rugs directly under the center of 
the table and running a cord from the floor outlet to the 
bottom of my dining-room table. He wired it in such a way 
that I now have two outlets with switches for the attachment 
of appliances underneath the edge of my table. I can use 
both of these outlets at one time for electrical appliances and 
only use attachment cords about fifteen inches long, which 
are hardly noticeable, especially since the electrician substi- 
tuted white silk covered ones in place of the ordinary black 
ones. By means of a little attachment plug on the cord run- 
ning up from the floor I can easily detach the wire from the 
table when housecleaning. ill. 

MY KITCHEN STOOL— One day last year I happened 
to pass a warehouse just as they were unloading some stools 
with bracket attachments such as are used at the counters in 
many shops. I had an inspiration. Without a moment's 
hesitation I purchased one of them, as it was of oak and 
matched the woodwork in my kitchen perfectly. I could 
scarcely contain my impatience until I got home and put 
that little lifesaver up at the sink where I had so often 
"backached." Query: Why do they always set the sinks 
so low and the gas fixtures so high in apartments ? To return 

205 



206 Good Housekeeping's Booz op 

to the stool: I set it up with four screws, and it works like 
a charm. When I am preparing vegetables or washing dishes 
I sit in comfort. When I am through, a push of the knee 
sends the stool out of the way under the sink. Possibly there 
are in many attics the "makings" of just such a strength- 
saver. One may take the seat off an old revolving piano 
stool, buy a bracket at the hardware store, and achieve the 
same result that I did with the one bought second-handed. 

ILL. 

TO SECURE ELECTRIC LIGHT SHADES— I have 
found that very often the small shades which one buys at a 
Japanese or art store do not tit securely on a hanging electric 
light. Invariably they fit too low, so that the light shines 
above them, or else they have a tendency to tilt from one 
side to the other. I find that this trouble can readily be 
overcome by the following method: Measure the circum- 
ference of the place on the electric light bulb where you wish 
the shade to rest. Draw a circle of that circumference with a 
compass. Then measure the circumference of the top of the 
shade and draw it a little larger around the first circle. Cut 
out the cardboard doughnut. Unscrew the electric light bulb, 
slip the cardboard doughnut over it, put the shade over both, 
and screw in the bulb once more. N. T, 

A TROUBLE SAVER— I have discovered the great need 
of more than one person in a home being able to turn off the 
water in case the boiler bursts, a catastrophe which hap- 
pened in my home at midnight a short time ago. We were 
kept busy for two hours dipping up water because no one 
knew exactly what to do. Now we have posted a chart plainly 
in sight near the kitchen, indicating where to find the right 
faucet to turn off the cold water and the hot water, and also 
the faucet to empty the boiler in case of such an accident. 
I am sure that it would be wise for every housekeeper to 
adopt the same plan, for it is indeed a trouble-saver. n. j. 

A KITCHEN "WINDOW DOOR"— When we built our 
new home, we remodeled the kitchen door in the following 
way: In place of the usual small glass found in such doors 
we had a larger glass built in a hinged frame, making it 
possible to open and shut the "window door" when desired, 



Recipes and Household Discoveeies 207 

TDMch. the same idea as a cashier 's window. Many times you 
will find it a great convenience to open this window rather 
than the whole door, especially when there are young children 
around. It also saves muddy feet on the kitchen floor, as 
you can receive articles from the deliveries through this 
window. IND. 

TO CLEAN AN ELECTRIC TOASTER— We had always 
experienced great trouble in keeping the framework of our 
electric toaster free from crumbs which collect there with 
each using. Finally we discovered that a flat paint-brush 
such as can be purchased for a very small amount removes 
all traces of crumbs very easily. mass. 

TO INCREASE THE HUMIDITY IN A ROOM— We 
axe often advised to use a large bowl or panful of wate> 
near a steam radiator or hot air register to counteract the 
excessive dryness of the heat. This is especially imperative 
where there is a piano, violin, or other fine musical instru- 
ment. Last winter I filled my large blue pottery bowl with 
the delicate green vine called Wandering Jew and placed it 
on a table near my steam radiator, renewing the water 
frequently. This vine will grow and spread beautifully in 
"Water and has the added advantage of not needing daily sun. 
It will do just as well in a dark corner, if that is where 
your radiator happens to be, with only an occasional visit 
to a sunny window, and at the same time it will light up 
that dark corner wonderfully. A few sprigs of the vine wUl 
spread rapidly and luxuriantly and will do away with the 
useless look that a plain bowlful of water always has. In 
addition to their decorative value, water bulbs are also a 
useful means of increasing humidity — ^but always choose the 
odorless ones. mass. 

TO REPAIR A CHAIR SEAT— When the cane seat of 
a chair gives out cut a piece of inlaid linoleum two inches 
larger than the opening in the chair. Paint this a leather 
brown on the top and the edge. Let dry for two days; then 
tack in place with regular upholstering tacks. The chairs 
prove very serviceable and attractive. minn. 



What is 
Good Housekeeping Institute? 

Good Housekeeping Institute, which is just one of 
the many departments touching every phase of -women's 
interests from fashions to foods v.-hieh are maintained 
by Good Housekeeping, is a highly organized laboratory 
where, for more than twelve years, all kinds of house- 
hold appliances, recipes, and home managing methods 
have been tested under conditions which closely ap- 
proximate those found in the average home. 

Good Housekeeping Institute is operated by a staff 
of six experts, together with a group of six assistants. 

Two departments 

It is made up of two departments. One is the Depart- 
ment of Household Engineering, which tests new ap- 
pliances and labor saving devices. The other is the 
Department of Cookery, which tests recipes and evolves 
new methods of cookery in a well equipped laboratory 
kitchen. The recipes set forth in this book represent the 
favorites submitted by Good Housekeeping readers all 
over the country. These recipes, as well as every recipe 
in Good Housekeeping Magazine, have been thoroughly 
standardized, tested and tasted by the corps of trained 
workers in the Department of Cookery. 

At your service 

The entire staff of both departments of Good House- 
keeping Institute is entirely at your service at all 
times to assist you in your home-managing problems. 
The service is free to Good Housekeeping readers : there 
is no obligation of any nature whatsoever. Do not 
hesitate to call upon them. 



INDEX TO RECIPES 



Angel Tip, 1 
Apple Crisp, 95 

Souffle, 54 
Apples, Baked de Luxe, 95 

Fried, with Onions, 97 

Russian, 97 



Bacon and Com, Camp Style, 

80 
Bacon and Eggs, New Style, 72 
Bananas, West Indian Style, 96 
Banbury Tarts, 120 
Beans, Baked Kidney, 161 

Baked, with Chili Sauce, 160 

Baked, with Samp, 160 

Lima, en Casserole, 169 

Spanish String, 174 
Beef, Casserole of, 103 

Deviled, 105 

"Different" Dried, 105 

Jellied, 107 

Quick, a la Mode, 114 

Scrapple, 102 
Beets a la King, 162 

Baked New, 161 

Flavored, 16S 

New, with Orange Dressing, 171 
Biscuit, Georgia Split, 12 
Biscuits, Caramel, 8 
Bread, Apple Corn, 4 

Bishop's, 5 

Bran, with Yeast, 6 

Caraway Eye, 9 

Com, 10 

Kentucky Spoon, 13 

Oatmeal, 14 

Old-Fashioned Com, 15 

Cnive, 15 

100% Com, 16 

Portsmouth Com, 17 

Eaisin Com, 17 
Breakfast Corn and Potatoes, 163 



Cabbage, 164 

And Potatoes, Creamed, 166 

Au Gratin, 164 
Cake, Apple Johnny, 5 

Aunt Rebecca 's Old-Fashioned 
Sponge, 19 

Boiled Eaisin, 20 

Boston, 20 

Chocolate, 20 

Cocoa Apple-Sauce, 21 

Cocoa, 21 

Coconut, 21 

Coffee Cream Sponge, 22 

College Fudge, 22 

Crackling Corn, 10 

"Dom Econ," 23 

Eggless Chocolate, 24 

Eggless Nugget, 24 

Gabrielle, 25 

Good Inexpensive, A, 19 

Graham Cracker, 25 

Hickory-Nut, 26 

Hot Water Sponge, 26 

Idlewild Maple, 26 

Johunv, 13 

Light "Fruit, 27 

Luncheon, 27 

Measured Pound, 28 

Mother's Pork, 28 

Mrs. Wing's Prune, 26 

Orange, 29 

Orange Chocolate, 30 

Parker House Corn, 16 

Quick Spiee, 30 

Baisin, 30 

Strawberry, 31 

Uxbridge Johnny, 17 

White Layer, 31 

Yale Blueberry, 32 
Cakes, Buckwheat, 7 

Buttermilk Wheat, 8 

Carolina Tea, 44 

Coconut, 34 



209 



210 



Index to Recipes 



Cakes, Codfish, 86 

"Different" Potato, 167 

Fish Roe, 89 

Tomato Luncheon, 178 
Caramels, 33 
Carrots and Onions, Creamed, 166 

Belgian, 162 

Braised, 162 

New Way to Cook, 172 

With Butter Sauce, 165 
Casserole Flank Steak, 103 
Cauliflower with Onions, Fried, 

168 
Celery au Gratin, 165 
Cheese, Baked, 37 

Cottage, 39 

Cottage, with Dates, 39 

Dainty, 40 

Poor Man's, Pudding, 41 

Pudding, 37 

With Chives, 38 
Chicken, The Way I Fry, 118 
Chinese Chews, 45 
Chocolate Animals, 45 

Nougat, 34 
Chowder, Bean, 152 

Canned Corn and Celery, 153 

Celery, 153 

Delicious Fish, 154 

Grandmother's Parsnip, 156 

Quahaug, 158 

Salt Codfish, 158 

Vegetable, 159 
Clam Griddles, 86 

Pie, 86 
Clams, Baked, Bhode Island Style, 
84 

Baked Com with, 84 
Cocoa, Iced, 2 

Paste, 1 
Coffee Cream, 56 

Spanish, 68 
Conservation Sweetmeats, 34 
Cookies, Animal, 43 

Brown Sugar, 43 

Chocolate Almond, 45 

Chocolate Caramel, 46 

Chocolate, 46 

Cocoa, 46 

Hermit, 49 

Oatmeal, I, 50 

Oatmeal, II, 50 



Cookies, Rich, 51 

Sure-to-Like, 51 
Com and Tomatoes, Southern 

Style, 166 
Corn Crunch, 35 
Com Flake Date Crackers, 47 

Kisses, 35 
Cora Meal Oyster Fritters, 88 

Veal, 104 
Cream Almond Dates, 35 
Cream French Dressing, 142 
Crumpets, 10 
Custard, Egyptian Caramel, 59 

Macaroon, 62 

Dandelion Cordial, 1 

With Pennsylvania Dutch DresS' 
ing, 143 
Date Crumbles, 57 

Kisses, 35 

Sponge, 58 
Dates, Shredded, 67 
Doughnuts, Buttermilk, I, 43 

Buttermilk, II, 44 

Date, 47 

Easy Raised, 47 

Eggless, Sour-Milk, or Butter- 
milk, 48 

Old-Fashioned New England, 50 

Plain, 51 
Dumplings, Apple, 53 

Jam, 62 

Maple-Sirup, 63 

Rolled Apple, 66 

Eggplant au Gratin, 167 
Eggs, Concordia, 74 

Creole, 74 

Dandy Stuffed, 75 

Mock Turtle, 76 

Poached, with Rarebit Sauce, 
76 

Shirred, in Giblet Sauce, 77 

Spanish Scrambled, 78 
Esau's Pottage, 155 
Excellent Cereal Coffee, 2 

Figs and Cheese, 40 
Filling, Creamy, 93 

Sugarless Cake, 94 
Finnan Haddie and Potato, 
Creamed, 89 



Index to Recipes 



211 



:f4sh with Cheese, Baked, 84 
Flounder, Baked, 85 

Koe, Fried, 89 
Flounders with Parsley Sauce, 90 
Frankfurters and Noodles in To- 
mato Sauce, 81 
Frapped Camembert, 40 
Fresh Strawberry Bavarian Cream, 

60 
Fricassee, Beef, 101 

Savory Chicken, 116 
Frosting, Maple, 93 

QuaUty, 94 
Fudge, Chocolate Mint, 33 

Hinehey, 49 

Gems, Bran, 6 

Buckwheat, 7 

Oatmeal, 15 

Gingerbread, with Apples, 60 
Gingerbread, Cream Blueberry, 23 

Fairy, 24 

Moist, 28 

Sour Milk, 31 
Ginger Nuts, 48 
Ginger Snaps, 48 
Golden Dressing, 144 
Gooseberry Cream, 61 

Halibut Baked in Milk, 90 
Ham, Baked with Apples, 98 

Baked Sliced, I, 100 

Baked Sliced, II, 100 

Fireless Baked, 106 
Hangtown Fry, 81 
Hash, Baked 'Corned Beef, 98 

English, 106 

Planked Corned Beef, 111 

Vegetable, 179 
Hominy and Sausage, Maryland 
Style, 107 

With Olives, 81 
Hungarian Goulash, 107 

KiUicrankers, 49 

Lamb Chops with Green Peppers, 
108 

Sliced, with Onion Sauce, 116 
Lemon Butter, 93 
Lettuce, Club Style, 134 

With Koquefort Dressing, 134 
Liver, Beef, with Onions, 101 



Liver, Baked Calves', 98 
Loaf, An All-Eye, 4 

Berry, 19 

Blueberry, 55 

Beef, 101 

Mutton, 108 

Sausage, 115 

Somerville Meat, 117 
Luncheon Asparagus, 169 

Com, 170 

Dish from Emergency Shelf, 170 

Spinach, 170 

Maryland Sally Lunn, 14 
Mayonnaise, Boiled, 142 
Meringues, Whipped Cream, 71 
Mint Grape Juice, 2 
Mock Chop Suey, 82 

Sweetbreads, 108 
Muffins, All-Corn, 4 

Bread-Bran, 6 

Cocoa, 9 

English, 11 

English Penny, 11 

Grandmother's, 12 

Mrs. Mellick's Com, 14 

Oatmeal, 15 
Mutton, To Use Left-Over, 118 
"My Meat Cakes," 109 

New England Boiled Dinner, 109 
Codfish Dinner, 90 

Omelet, A Hearty, 75 

Asparagus, Italian, 72 

Bacon and Potato, 72 

Baked Cracker, 73 

Brown-Bread, 73 

Cabbage, 73 

Cheese, 74 

Codfish, 87 

Espagnole, 76 

Spanish, 77 

Spinach, 78 

Swedish, 78 
Onion Savory, 173 
Onions on Toast, 82 
Orange Icing, 94 
Oranges with Veal, Baked, 99 
Oxtail and Spaghetti, 111 
Oyster Pie, 92 
Casters, Catalan, 91 



212 



Index to Recipes 



OTsters, Concordia Scalloped, 87 
New Scalloped, 91 
Tripe, 119 

Parsnip Turnover, 174 
Parsnips, Butterless, 164 

Stewed, 176 
Peaches, Baked Dried, 96 
Pecan Pralines, 36 
Pie, Apple Lemon, 120 

Apple, with Cream Cheese, 120 

Black-Cap Raspberry, 121 

Butter-Scoteh, I, 121 

Butter-Scoteb, II, 122 

Cocoa Meringue, 122 

Dinner, 106 

Lemon Apple, 123 

Lemon, 123 

Los Angeles, 123 

Maria's Lemon, 124 

Maryland Cora, 171 

Mince, 124 

Mock Cherry, 125 

One Crust Peach, 125 

Orange, 126 

Plain Squash, 126 

Pumpkin, 126 

Sour Cream, 127 

Sour Cream, with Dates, 127 
Pies, Chelsea (Individual), 122 
Pineapple, Baked, 96 

Dressing, 145 
Popovers, 16 
Pork Chops a I'lndienne, 112 

With Apples, Baked, 99 

With Dressing, 112 
Potatoes and Onions, Buttered, 
163 

Cheese, In Jacket, 165 

Delicious, au Gratin, 167 

New, with Cream Cheese Sauce, 
172 

O'Brien, au Gratin, 173 

Pan Eoasted, 173 

Stuffed, 177 

Stuffed Sweet, 177 
Pot Koast, 113 

New, 110 

Porto Riean, 112 

Veal, of, 113 

With Vegetables, 114 
Prunes in Belgian Style, 82 



Pudding, Apple Cracker, 53 

Apple Graham Cracker, 54 

Apple Indian, 54 

Bacon Souffle, 80 

Butter-Scotch, 55 

Chocolate, 56 

Coconut, 56 

Coffee Rice, 57 

Corn, 80 

Date, 58 

Delicious Bice, 58 

Eggless Indian, 59 

Ererv-Dav Lemon Bice, 60 

Gokfen, 61 

Indian, 61 

Lemon Meringue, 62 

MarshmaUow Caramel, 63 

Orange Souffle Bread, 64 

Rice Macaroon, 66 

Russian, 67 

Simple Christmas, A, 68 

Surprise, 69 

Taffy, 69 

Thanksgiving Gelatin, 70 
Pumpkin with Tomato, Stevred, 

176 
Punch, Grape, 2 

Tea, 3 

Rarebit, Cheese, with Milk, 38 

Chioese, 38 

Combination, 39 

Old-Fashioned, 41 

Rice, 42 
Raspberry Vinegar, 3 
Rice and Cheese, 41 

Charlotte Eusee, 65 

Cream, 57 

Luncheon, 40 

Persian, 64 

Pineapple, 64 

Scrambled, and Bacon, 83 

Strawberry, 68 

Surprise, 66 
Rolls, Delicious Quick Tea, 11 

Maple, 13 
Russian Toffy, 36 

Salad, Asparagus Luncheon, 128 
Banana and Celery, 128 
Bird's Xest, 128 
Butterfly, Individual, 129 



Index to Recipes 



213 



Salad, Candlestick, 129 

Carrot and Apple, 130 
Club, 130 

Combination, 130 

Cottage Cheese, 130 

Cottage, 131 

Cucumber and Pineapple Jelly, 
131 

Cucumber with Salmon Dress- 
ing, 132 

Date, 132 

Endive Grapefruit, 132 

Fruit, with Pineapple Dressing, 
133 

Individual Sardine and Tomato, 
133 

Italian Egg, 133 

Mixed Vegetable and Egg, 134 

Molded Beet, 135 

Molded Cheese, 135 

Orange and Date, 136 

Orange and Onion, 136 

Oyster, 136 

Peanut-Eice, 137 

Pecan, 137 

Pineapple, with Golden Dress- 
ing, 137 

Potato and Crab, in Pepper 
Cases, 138 

Summer, 138 

Supper, 139 

Tango, 139 

Wa^ington Salmon, 140 

Yellow-Tomato and Chestnut, 
140 
Salad Dressing, Bloater-Paste, 142 

Creole, 143 

Curry, 143 

Eggless Boiled, 144 

Peebee, 144 

Eussian Mayonnaise, 145 

Savory, 145 

Southern Cooked, 145 

Tasty, 146 

Thousand Island, 146 

Uncooked, 146 
Salt Pork with Cream Gravy, 115 
Sandwich, Italian, 149 

Picnic or Camping, 149 

Substantial Camper's, 150 
Sandwich Filling, Chicken Giblet 
and Egg, 147 



Sandwich Filling, Delicious, 147 

Oats and Cheese, 149 

Savory, 150 

Tasty New, 151 
Sandwiches, Creamed Oyster, 147 

Honey and Nut, 148 

Hot Cheese, 148 

Hot Green Pepper, 148 

Piquant Cheese, 150 

Yum- Yum, 151 
Sauce, Maple Apple, 97 
Sausage and Bananas, 115 

With Apples, Baked, 100 
Shad, Boiled, 85 
Sole with Butter Sauce, 92 
Soup, Black Bean, 152 

Cream of Pea, with Vegetables, 
153 

Cream of Tomato Coconut, 154 

Creole, 154 

Different Potato Soup, A, 156 

Ginger Cream, 156 

Lumberman's Pea, 157 

Never-Fail Tomato, 157 

Onion, 158 

Vegetable, vrithout Meat, 159 
Spinach with Gravy, 174 
Squash, Baked, 161 
Squaw Dish, 175 
Stew, Camp, 102 

Concordia Oyster, 88 

Improved Oyster, 156 

New Lamb, 110 
Succotash, Great Grandmother 'e, 
168 

Long Island, 169 

Spring, 175 

Tomato, 178 
Sweet Apple Slump, 69 
Sweet Potato and Apple, 177 
Swiss Steak with Worcestershire 
Sauce, 117 

Tapioca, Pineapple, 65 

Uxbridge Apple, 71 
Toast, Beauregard, 5 

Brown Bread Tomato, 163 

Cinnamon, 9 

Thickened Milk, with Neufchatel 
Cheese, 42 
Tomato Slaw, 140 
Tomatoes, Cooked, 166 



214 Index to Recipes 

Tomatoes, New Scalloped, 172 Vegetable Luncheon Dish, 179 

Stewed, 176 Vegetarian Scrapple, 179 
Tongue, Cold Boiled, with Spanish 
Sauce, 104 

Delicious Baked, 104 Waffles, 18 

Tripe a la Creole, 118 Buttermilk, 7 

KoU, 119 Whipped Cream, Substitute for. 

Sautdd Pickled, 116 94 



INDEX TO DISCOVERIES 



Alann Clock, How I Use My, 198 
Apron, An Adjustable, 202 
Aprons, Masculine, 202 

Baby-Carriages, Netting for, 201 
Broiler Pan, To Clean a, 183 
Brown Sugar, To Keep Moist, 185 

Cake, A New Birthday, 189 
Cake Cover, A Novel, 188 
Candlesticks, A Charming Use 

for, 186 
Canning Season, For the, 194 
Carrots, New Creamed, 182 
Chair Seat, To Eepair a, 207 
Chapped Hands, To Prevent, 197 
Cleaning, Quick, 193 
Clothes Sense, To Cultivate a, 196 
Cookies, To Drop Easily, 190 
Corn Flakes, A New Way to Serve, 

190 

Dates, To Eemove Paper from, 191 

Eggs, How to Poach, 182 
Education, Self, 197 
Entertainer, For the, 203 
Entertaining, Mutual Assistance 

in, 187 
Electrical Appliances, Making 

More Convenient, 205 
Electric Light Shades, To Secure, 

206 
Electric Toaster, To Clean an, 207 

Fabrics, To Wash Colored, 200 
Fireless Cooker Rack, A New Use 

for Your, 198 
Fish, When Baking, 180 
Fish, When Cooking, 185 
Flavor, Delicious Meat, 180 
Pood-Grinder, To Clean the, 185 



French Dressing, To Vary, 190 
Fruit or Vegetables, For Ripening, 
184 

Garbage Pail, For the, 192 
Garbage Pail, Suspended, Cannot 

Spill, 184 
Garnish, A Novel, 180 
Garnish, For a, 181 
Gem Pans, New Use for, 190 
Glass Vase, To Eemove Water 

Mark From, 200 

Humidity, To Increase in a Room, 

207 

Icing, A New Chocolate, ISO 
Ironing, A Suggestion for, 199 
Ironing Surface, An Excellent, 183 

Kitchen Stool, My, 205 

Laundress, To Keep Happy, *198 
Luncheon, A Planned, 191 
Luncheon, A Time-Saving, 203 

Macaroni and Cheese, Baconized, 

190 
Magazine Club, For the, 203 
Marshmallows, To Cut, 190 
Mending, To Help With the, 199 
Mother, A Day Off for, 195 
Muskmelon, Baked, 181 

Napkins, To Iron, 201 
Nuts, Pumpkin, 185 

Oiled Paper, How to Keep, 191 
Oil Stove, For Filling Your, 198 

Party, For the Children's, 187 
Place-Card, The Christmas, 188 
Place-Cards, Novel, 186 



215 



216 



Index to Discoveries 



Porch Floor, Wax Your, 192 
Potato Soup, Quick, 181 
Privacy, One Means of More, 192 

Recipes, To Keep Clean, 189 

Recipe File, For the, 184 

Rice and Peanut Butter, A New 

Combination, 191 
Rice and Potatoes, Mashed, 189 

Salad, Picnic, 193 

Sand-Box, For the Kiddies, 192 

Sandpaper, A New Use for, 198 

Scallop, To Strengthen a, 201 

Screens, For the Window, 194 

Sewing Help, A, 202 

Shaker, A Handy Salt or Pepper, 

193 
Shopper, A Help for the, 183 
Shortening, Measuring, 202 
Shower, For the Bridal, 187 
Spinach, To Drain, 182 



Sprinkler, A Pastry, 181 
Stockings, To Darn, 203 
Sweet Pickling Sirup, How to 
Use, 182 

Table-Cloths, Hemming, 199 
Throat, An Ice-Bag for the, 204 
Time and Tins, To Save, 182 
Toilet Soap, Save All Scraps of, 

199 
Train, Never Miss Your, 200 
Traveler, For the, 193 
Trouble Saver, A, 206 
Typewriter, In the Kitchen, 184 

Washing Vegetables, Lukewarm 

Water for, 181 
Wedding, A Cotton, 186 
Welsh Rarebit, A New, 185 
Windows, How to Wash Rapidly, 

199 
"Window Door," A Kitchen, 206 
Woodwork, Washing, 201 



t 






