A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 
FOR TRAINING COLLEGES 



A. 

A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 
FOR TRAINING COLLEGES 



BY 

MARGARET AVERY 

B.Sc. LONDON, M.R.SAN. I. 

VICE-PRINCIPAL OF WARHINGTON TRAINING COLLEGE 



WITH 100 ILLUSTRATIONS 



THIRD EDITION, REVISED 




METHUEN & GO. LTD 

36 ESSEX STREET W.G 

LONDON 



First Published . . October jotb 1919 
Second Edition . . September 1920 
Third Edition, Revised 1920 



PREFACE 

THIS book, which is chiefly the outcome of lectures given to 
my students, covers the subject-matter of the Board of 
Education Certificate Examination for Training Colleges, and 
will, I hope, be of use not only to College students, but also 
in connection with the work done in the new Continuation 
Classes and elsewhere. 

I have included chapters on Eugenics, Infant Welfare and 
Legislation affecting Children subjects which are of such 
interest and importance to the community that some study 
of them should be included in the education of all who have 
reached adolescence. 

I have tried always to use simple words and to suggest 
practical applications of theoretical knowledge wherever 
possible being fully convinced of the futility of Hygiene 
which is not practised. The teacher who settles down to give 
a lesson on cleanliness in a class-room covered with dust is 
probably doing more harm than good. The class had better 
first dust the room even though this be superficially sug- 
gestive of Mr. Squeers' methods of instruction. 

I am indebted to various authors for information. As far 
as possible I have acknowledged my sources in the text, but 
I should like specially to mention here The Annual Reports of 
the Chief Medical Officer of the Board of Education (Sir G. 
Newman), Dr. Crowley's Hygiene of School Life, rewritten by 
Dr. Hutt, Dr. Kerr Love's The Deaf Child, Dr. J. Kerr's 
School Hygiene, Dr. Slaughter's The Adolescent, various 
articles in School Hygiene and the Journal of the Royal 
Sanitary Institute. 



vi A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

For illustrations, I have to thank Dr. G. Auden, Dr. C. W. 
Hutt, Mr. G. H. Widdows, F.R.I. B.A., the Committee of the 
Bristol Open-Air School, the Ling Association, the Abertillery 
Education Committee, and various publishers mentioned in 
the text. 

M. A. 

September ; 1919. 



PREFACE TO THIRD EDITION 

IN this edition I have added a chapter on the training of 
children in the practice of hygiene, some further information 
as to the dangers of tainted or adulterated food, and a short 
discussion of common beverages. The latter part of Chapter 
XI has been largely re-written, and some minor correc- 
tions have been made in various other parts of the book. 
These changes will, I hope, add to its value. 

M. A. 

October , 1920. 



CONTENTS 

CHAPTER I 
INTRODUCTORY 

PAGE 

Scope Gradation of structure in animals The cell 
Tissues of the body Child's tissues immature Factors 
influencing development : heredity, environment . . i 

CHAPTER II 

THE SKELETON 

Structure and development of bone General build r 

Spinal curvature Flat-foot Joints . . . .11 

CHAPTER III 

THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM 

Structure of muscle Relation to bones Movement Growth 
Physical exercise (games, dancing, swimming, formal) 
Posture Muscular fatigue Place of manual work . . 22 

CHAPTER IV 
THE CIRCULATORY SYSTEM 

Blood Heart and blood-vessels Circulation Symptoms of 

abnormality in blood or heart-action Lymphatic system 36 

CHAPTER V 

THE RESPIRATORY SYSTEM 

Purpose of respiration Effect on air of room Effect of bad 
air on the body Tests for air Ventilation and heating 
Desirability of radiant heat Natural and artificial ventila- 
tion Pavilion schools Mechanism of breathing and voice- 
production Types of breathing Nervous control of breath- 
ing Breathlessness Mouth-breathing Adenoids and en- 
larged tonsils Physical exercise and respiration . . 45 

vii 



viii A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

CHAPTER VI 
THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM AND FOOD " 

PAGE 

General structure Development and care of teeth Food 
(uses, classes, digestion) Constipation Dangers of too 
much or too little food, and of tainted, diseased or adulterated 
food Beverages (water, tea, coffee, cocoa, milk) . . 64 

CHAPTER VII 
FOOD (continued 1 ] 

Children's diet Cleanliness of food, filters, contamination 
by flies Nutrition and malnutrition Feeding of school 
children : selection of children, arrangements for preparing 
and serving meals, educational value, rickets . .84 

CHAPTER VIII 

THE EXCRETORY SYSTEM 

Skin : uses, care of skin and hair Skin-diseases : scald-head, 

scabies, ringworm, alopecia, pediculosis The kidneys . 98 

CHAPTER IX 
WARMTH AND CLOTHING [/* 

Nature of body-heat Clothing (use, characteristics of good 
clothing, materials, choice of clothing for children, foot- 
gear, handkerchiefs) . . . . . . .108 

CHAPTER X 

CLEANLINESS \s 

Relation to health What can be done in school Baths 

The school medical service The Children Act . . .113 

CHAPTER XI 

/ 

THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 

General function and structure of brain, spinal cord and nerves 
Reflex action Development of the nervous system Centres 
for speech and writing Word-deafness Word-blindness 
Characteristics of child's nervous system Sleep . .123 



CONTENTS ix 

CHAPTER XII 
MENTAL DULNESS AND DEFICIENCY 

PAGE 

Classification Causes Existing educational provision Char- 
acter of education After-care Symptoms of defect Moral 
defects . . . . . . . . . .139 

CHAPTER XIII 
FATIGUE (MENTAL AND PHYSICAL) ~~~ 

Definition Cause Symptoms School-factors influencing 
fatigue Tests Type of child liable to mental fatigue Only 
one kind of fatigue . . . . . . . .145 

CHAPTER XIV 
THE SENSES AND THEIR TRAINING SIGHT ^ 

Value of senses and their training The eye : structure and 
uses of lids and eyeball Vision Defects of vision (long and 
short sight, astigmatism, squint) and common eye-diseases 
Their relation to school and home conditions, heredity, and 
general health Part taken by teacher in detection and 
amelioration Vision tests . . . . . .151 

CHAPTER XV 
THE EAR AND HEARING 

Structure of ear Hearing Causes, signs and prevention of 
defective hearing and ear disease Tests and degrees of 
deafness Education of the deaf and semi-deaf Word-deaf- 
ness ... . . 166 

CHAPTER XVI 
SMELL, TASTE, TOUCH. MUSCULAR SENSE ^ 176 

CHAPTER XVII 

TRAINING THE CHILD IN THE PRACTICE OF HYGIENE 

Cultivation of good physical habits at home and in school, 
monitorial work, imspections, " drills," the school premises 
as a pattern, baths, posture, place of Hygiene in time-table, 
type of lesson, relation to other subjects (science, domestic 
economy) . . . . . . . . .180 



x A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

CHAPTER XVIII 
PHYSICAL DISABILITIES OF CHILDREN INFECTIOUS DISEASES 

PAGE 

Duty of teacher Germs Relation of germ and body Im- 
munity Symptoms common to most infectious diseases 
Measles : symptoms, treatment, complications, how the 
teacher can help to prevent its spread, school-closure 
Whooping-cough, Diphtheria, Scarlet fever Smallpox and 
vaccination Chicken-pox, Mumps, German measles, In- 
fantile paralysis . . . . . . . .185 

CHAPTER XIX 

PHYSICAL DISABILITIES (continued) 
Tuberculosis . . . . . . . . .196 

CHAPTER XX 
NERVOUS CONDITIONS 
Chorea, epilepsy, hysteria, stammering . 

CHAPTER XXI 

HEART DISEASE AND RHEUMATISM 206 

CHAPTER XXII 
TEMPERANCE 

Methods of teaching Knowledge alone insufficient Board's 
syllabus of lessons on temperance Alcohol : chemical and 
physical properties, preparation, percentage in beverages, 
effects on the body and brain, effects of intemperance on 
individual, home and State ...... 209 

CHAPTER XXIII 
THE SCHOOL BUILDING AND ITS SURROUNDINGS 

Conditions of a healthy school : site, playgrounds and their 
possible uses, types of building, warming, lighting (day and 
artificial) .218 

CHAPTER XXIV 

THE SCHOOL BUILDING (continued) 
Furniture and equipment : desks, infants' rooms, cloak- 



CONTENTS xi 

PAGE 

rooms and lavatories, sanitary conveniences (common types), 
earth closets and their management, supervision of offices, 
need of training children in proper use of sanitary appliances, 
drainage School cleaning Disinfecting . . . .228 

CHAPTER XXV 
MEDICAL INSPECTION AND TREATMENT 

History of growth and development of medical inspection 
Need for it Duties of school doctors and nurses Co-opera- 
tion of teachers Methods of treatment School clinics 
Future developments and possible extension After-care of 
the school-child . . . . . . . .237 

CHAPTER XXVI 

FIRST AID IN MINOR INJURIES AND COMMON AILMENTS 250 
CHAPTER XXVII 

SPECIAL SCHOOLS 

Mentally defective Epileptic Backward classes Blind and 
deaf Partially blind and deaf Sanatorium schools Open- 
air schools ......... 261 

CHAPTER XXVIII 
WELFARE OF INFANTS AND YOUNG CHILDREN 

Reasons for attention to this subject : knowledge derived 
from medical inspection, infant mortality, birth-rate 
Health visiting Maternity and child-welfare centres Day 
nurseries Nursery schools Schools for mothers Training 
of elder girls in the care of infants and young children . .279 

v CHAPTER XXIX 
LEGISLATION AFFECTING SCHOOL CHILDREN 

The Factory Act, Children Act, Education (Provision of Meals) 
Acts, Medical Inspection and Treatment, Blind and Deaf 
Act, Defective and Epileptic Acts, Mental Deficiency Act 
(1913), Employment of Children Act, Education (Choice of 
Employment) Act Need for careful supervision of juvenile 
employment out of school hours . . . 295 

CHAPTER XXX 

EUGENICS 306 

INDEX . ....... 324 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 

FIG. PAGE 

1. AMCEBA . . . . . . . . 2 

2. TAKING IN AND DIGESTING FOOD ... 2 

3. REPRODUCTION IN THE AMCEBA . . . . 3 

4. SECTION THROUGH SEA-ANEMONE ..... 3 

5. ,, OF GRISTLE . n 

6. ,, OF A LONG BONE . . . . . .13 

7. THE SKELETON ........ 14 

8. A VERTEBRA . . . . . . . .15 

9. CURVES OF THE SPINE ...... 16 

ID. ROUND SHOULDERS AND HOLLOW BACK . . .17 

11. WEDGE-SHAPED CARTILAGES IN A CURVED SPINE . . 18 

12. BABY'S SKULL AT BIRTH ...... 19 

13. SECTION THROUGH A JOINT 21 

14. A MUSCLE -FIBRE ....... 22 

15. ACTION OF BICEPS MUSCLE ...... 23 

1 6. GOOD POSITION : WRITING . . . . . .28 

17. BAD ,, ........ 29 

18. Good ,, READING 29 

19. BAD ,, SEWING ...... 30 

20. ,, STANDING ..... 30 

21. BLOOD CORPUSCLES .... 36 

22. POSITION OF HEART IN THORAX ..... 37 

23. SECTION THROUGH HEART ...... 38 

24. UNION OF ARTERY AND VEIN . . . . 39 

25. VEIN LAID OPEN TO SHOW VALVES .... 39 

26. PLENUM VENTILATION . 49 

27. AIR-CURRENT IN ROOM VENTILATED ON PLENUM SYSTEM 49 

28. BRADFORD CITY COUNCIL ELEMENTARY SCHOOL AT 

BUTTERSHAW . . . . . . -52 

29. AIDS TO NATURAL VENTILATION ... -53 

30. MCKINNELL'S VENTILATOR .... -54 

31. MOUTH, NOSE, WINDPIPE AND GULLET IN SECTION . 55 
\2. SECTION ACROSS LARYNX . . . .56 

xiii 



xiv A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

FIG. PAGE 

33. SECTION THROUGH CHEST . . . . . -57 

34. END OF A BRONCHIAL TUBE . . . . . -57 

35. APPARATUS TO ILLUSTRATE WORKING OF RESPIRATORY 

ORGANS . . . . . . . -59 

36. SECTION OF A TOOTH .... 65 

37. COMPLETE SET OF TEMPORARY TEETH .... 66 

38. ,, PERMANENT . . -67 

39. JAWS OF A CHILD OF Six YEARS, SHOWING TEMPORARY 

AND PERMANENT TEETH ...... 68 

40. VILLI, SHOWING LACTEALS, BLOOD-VESSELS AND COLUMNAR 

EPITHELIUM ..... ... 71 

41. ABDOMINAL ORGANS ....... 72 

4 1 A. SECTION THROUGH THE LONDON BASIN . . . . .80 

42. CHAMBERLAND-PASTEUR FILTER . . .86 

43. RICKETS . . . . . . . . -97 

44. SECTION OF SKIN ........ 99 

45. SCABIES . ' . 101 

46. BODY RINGWORM ........ 102 

47. RINGWORM . . . . 103 

48. LICE . . . . . . . . -105 

49. DIAGRAM SHOWING HOW NIT is FASTENED TO HAIR . 105 

50. SHOWER-BATHS . . . . . . . .117 

51. A NERVE-CELL ...... . 124 

52. SECTION OF HEAD, SHOWING BRAIN, ETC. . . . 126 

53. NERVES ......... 127 

54. REFLEX ACTION . . . . . . . .128 

55. HAMMOCKS . .138 

56. THE ERGOGRAPH 147 

57. jESTHESIOMETER . . . . . . . .147 

58. EYELIDS . . . . . . . . . 153 

59. EYEBALL AND OCULAR MUSCLES . . . . -154 

60. SECTION OF AN EYE . . . . . . - 155 

61. ACTION OF LENS ON RAYS OF LIGHT . . . .156 

62. CONVERGENCE . . . . . . . .157 

63. SHORT SIGHT . . . . 158 

64. MYOPE DESK ........ 160 

65. LONG SIGHT ....... .161 

66. THE RIGHT EAR ...... . 166 

67. THE INNER EAR 167 

68. EXPECTORATION CUP . . : . . . .198 

69. FLASK ....... 198 

70. STRATA OF CHALK OR LIMESTONE, SAND OR SANDSTONE, 

CLAY, SHALE OR SLATE . . . . . .219 









LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS xv 

FIG. PAGK 

71. FOUNDATIONS, DRY AND DAMP . . . . .219 

72. SECTION OF HEATED FLOOR AT NORTH WINGFIELD COUNCIL 

SCHOOL . . . 224 

73. EXPERIMENTAL CLASSROOMS AT NORTH WINGFIELD 

COUNCIL SCHOOL . 225 

74. FARRINGDON ADJUSTABLE DESK . . . . .228 

75. " PLUS " DESK ........ 229 

76. " ZERO " ........ 229 

77. " MINUS " ,, ........ 229 

78. WASH-DOWN CLOSET . . . . . . .231 

79. TROUGH CLOSET . . . 232 

80. SYPHON TRAP . 234 

81. GULLEY TRAP ........ 235 

82. SPRAY APPARATUS . . . . . . .236 

83. ROOM IN ABERTILLERY SCHOOL CLINIC . . . 244 

84. A TOURNIQUET . . . . . . . 252 

85. BANDAGES FOR BROKEN THIGH-BONE . . . .254 

86. FRACTURE OF LOWER LEG . . . . . .254 

87. BROKEN ARM 255 

88. ,, FOREARM ....... 255 

89. ARTIFICIAL RESPIRATION (INSPIRATION) . . . 258 

90. ,, (EXPIRATION) . . . 259 

91. WOODLANDS SANATORIUM SCHOOL ..... 266 

92. , 268 

93. PLAN OF BRISTOL OPEN-AIR SCHOOL .... 272 

94. BRISTOL (KNOWLE) OPEN-AIR SCHOOL . . . -274 
95 and 96. CLASSES WORKING OUT-OF-DOORS . . . 275 
97 and 98. . . 276 
99. AFTER-DINNER SLEEP ....... 278 



A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 
FOR TRAINING COLLEGES 



CHAPTER I 
INTRODUCTORY 

Scope Gradation of structure in animals The cell Tissues of the 
body Child's tissues immature Factors influencing develop- 
ment : heredity, environment. 

HYGIENE (Gk. hygieia= health) is essentially the science of 
health, or disease-prevention. 

In health, every part of the body is doing its own work 
quietly, with no fuss and one ought therefore in health to 
be nearly unconscious of one's body. 

Disease is caused by interference with the working of 
some part of the body-mechanism, the disturbing cause being 
either internal or external.. Hence, Hygiene comes to be 
largely a study of the conditions, both internal and external, 
which affect health, with the object of gaining control over 
those conditions, and so of making them as favourable as 
possible to the individual or, in other words, of giving every 
one the best chance possible of living a really complete life 
physically and mentally. Now, it is fairly obvious that no 
study of external or internal conditions of life can be in- 
telligent without some grasp of the mechanism on which 
these conditions act, and so the preliminary to Hygiene is 
the study of the structure of the body and the functions, or 
work, of its parts. Technically these two subjects are known 
as Anatomy and Physiology (Gk. ana=up ; temno=I cut) : 
(Gk. phusis =natuie ; logos = discourse). 



2 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

As you know, the animal kingdom shows a gradation of 
complexity of structure, from an animal consisting of a single 
microscopic cell, which performs all the vital functions, up 
to an animal like Man, consisting of millions of cells of different 
kinds, each kind doing one particular bit of work, so that the 




Nucleus 



tiranuiar 
Protoplasm, 



Contractile 
Vacuole 



Clear 
Protoplasm 
Fig. i. Amoeba (much magnified) 

existence of the whole depends on the efficient working of 
each kind of cell. The study of the cell, since it is the unit 
or brick from which every animal is built, is therefore the 
starting-point in anatonvy, and it can well be begun on one 
of the very simple animals mentioned above, e.g. the amoeba, 



Particle of Food 




Fig. 2. Amoeba taking in and digesting food 
In 4 the food has nearly disappeared 

found in the water of ponds, ditches, etc. This consists of 
one cell, i.e. a microscopic bit of colourless gianular jelly- 
like stuff called protoplasm, embedded in which is a rather 
denser bit called the nucleus, the whole being surrounded by 
a layer of clear protoplasm. This protoplasm has the pro- 
perties which we associate with life i.e. it is the living part 



INTRODUCTORY 3 

of every plant and animal. Huxley called it " the physical 
basis of life." Its shape is irregular and variable, because the 
protoplasm keeps on pushing out little arms or projections, 
which creep round any tiny particles of vegetable matter 
which may float within reach and incorporate them, by 




Nucleus 



Fig. 3. Reproduction in the amoeba 

digesting them, so that though at first the particles can be 
seen enclosed in the protoplasm, they soon disappear. There 
is no mouth. The amoeba breathes and excretes waste by 
means of a space in its protoplasm which it can fill with water 
and empty again, by shrinking it up and so squeezing out 
the water. From the water taken, it abstracts the dissolved 




Tentacle 



Gullet 



Fig-. 4. Diagrammatic section through sea-anemone 

oxygen and mineral salts and into it passes the waste formed 
from food, respiration, etc. This water, charged with refuse, 
is now squirted out, and the process begins again. Further, 
the amoeba reproduces by the simplest of all processes, i.e. 
cell-division. Division begins in the nucleus, and then the 
rest of the protoplasm divides, grouping itself round the 



4 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

two daughter-nuclei and eventually entirely separating. 
Each of the new cells goes through the same stages, and so one 
amoeba may, in a day or two, give rise to hundreds of 
thousands ; i.e. the amoeba performs all the fundamental life- 
processes it feeds, excretes, reproduces. 

As one ascends in the animal kingdom one finds animals 
consisting of more than one cell, and soon, division of labour 
is found, i.e. not every cell performs every vital function, but 
certain cells take on special work. For instance, a sea- 
anemone is multicellular, the cells forming two layers, and it 
possesses a gullet which is marked off from the general body- 
cavity. Further, certain cells in the inside layer bring about 
reproduction. Others, on the outside, sting. Higher in the 
scale, we find ever-increasing differentiation, till we reach the 
maximum complexity in Man. 

Certain terms used in describing the structure of the body 
may be defined here : 

Tissue. This word is used for a collection of cells of 
one sort, e.g. fat i a tissue built of fat -cells ; bone is a 
tissue built of bone-cells ; muscle is a tissue built of muscle- 
cells ; and so on. These tissues are grouped into Organs and 
Systems, each with a definite function, the chief systems 
being : 

1. The Skeleton, consisting of bones, fastened together by 
ligaments, formed of white fibrous material called connective 
tissue. The function of this system is to support the body. 

2. The Muscular System, or flesh, whose function is to 
produce movement. 

3. The Respiratory System, consisting of air-passages 
and lungs, whose function is the absorption of oxygen and 
the elimination of waste, in the form of carbon dioxide and 
water. 

4. The Circulatory System, consisting of heart and blood- 
vessels, whose function is to carry food and oxygen to all 
tissues, carry waste to places where it can be got rid of, 
destroy germs which get into the body, and distribute heat. 

5. The Digestive System, consisting of the mouth and its 
salivary glands, the gullet, the stomach and its glands, the 
intestines, liver and pancreas. Their work is the digestion of 



INTRODUCTORY 5 

food, i.e. the alteration of it till it is absorbable through the 
walls of the blood-vessels. 

6. The Lymphatic System, consisting of vessels and glands 
which help in the nutrition of the tissues, the removal of 
their waste and the manufacture of one of the constituents of 
blood (white corpuscles). 

7. The Excretory System, consisting of skin, kidneys and 
lungs, whose work is to get rid of waste. 

8. The Nervous System, consisting of brain, spinal cord 
and nerves, whose work is the control of all the organs and 
functions of the body, mental and physical. The Nervous 
System supplies the central governing power by which the 
activities of all the systems and organs of the body are brought 
into harmony, so that they act for the welfare of the whole. 

The Child compared with the Adult. The thing that one 
needs to bear in mind with regard to the child is that all its 
body-tissues and systems are immature, and that some of 
them remain so for years ; e.g. the Nervous System probably 
does not reach its full development till somewhere about the 
age of forty. Now all young immature things are delicate and 
very plastic, i.e. easily influenced for good or bad by external 
factors, and they therefore need more careful treatment 
than do adults. Wrong treatment (as does right) produces 
lifelong effects on body, mind and character. 

Factors influencing Development of Child. These may 
be considered under two heads : (i) Factors due to Heredity : 
(2) Factors due to Environment. Anything like a full dis- 
cussion of these two sets of factors is impossible here, but no 
thoughtful teacher can fail to realise that both exist, and 
that both affect tremendously the children under his or her 
care. 

Until recently, all social and philanthropic work aiming at 
bettering the condition of the world has been confined to an 
attempt to better the environment, e.g. to provide higher 
wages, better food, clothes, air, houses and such-like, and 
very desirable these things usually are, but the question 
remains as to whether philanthropy has not been one-sided 
and narrow and lacking in courage, in ignoring the other 
great fact, that of heredity, or at least, in assuming that 



6 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

it is beyond the scope of practical possibilities to alter 01 
affect it in any way. 

Before one can express an opinion worth having on such 
a subject, however, one needs to enquire into the facts of 
heredity : What is its strength ? For how much of a man 
is it responsible ? Which is relatively the stronger influence 
in forming a Man,- heredity or environment ? Is heredity 
really a thing quite beyond control ? Thinking people are, 
to-day, gradually coming to the opinion that we have under- 
estimated the strength of the heredity factor in moulding 
men and women, and that we have overestimated its un- 
controllability. 

There is one science, of comparatively recent birth, which 
has made investigation of this matter of heredity and environ- 
ment its special province, and that is the science of Eugenics, 
which is denned as "the study of agencies under social 
control, that may improve or impair the racial qualities of 
future generations, either physically or mentally." The word 
" eugenic," derived from the Greek eugenes meaning good 
in stock or hereditarily endowed with noble qualities, was 
invented by Sir Francis Galton, who founded a laboratory for 
the study of National Eugenics in the University of London. 
That laboratory is under the supervision of Prof. Karl 
Pearson, and it has issued a series of very interesting Memoirs, 
Lectures (is. each), and Questions of the Day and of the Fray 
(is. each). It is impossible to mention all the books dealing 
with this science, but the following can be recommended to 
anyone wishing to go further into the matter : Essays in^ 
Eugenics, by Sir F. Galton, and a series of pamphlets published 
by the Eugenics Education Society, Kingsway House, 
Kingsway, W.C., on Eugenic Education in School, through 
the Church, etc., costing 3d. each. The Problem of Race 
Regeneration, by Havelock Ellis (6d.), published by Cassells, 
and one of a series called Tracts for the Times, promoted 
by the National Council of Public Morals. Eugenics, by 
Schuster, The Progress of Eugenics; by Saleeby (53., Cassell). 

The trend of modern Hygiene is, at any rate, in the direction 
of beginning to look after the environment of the individual 
from the very beginning of its existence. A few years ago 



INTRODUCTORY 7 

it was supposed to suffice if we began with the child when it 
entered school, whereas now on all hands we hear of Schools 
for Mothers, Infant Clinics, Maternity Centres, and so on, 
i.e. we are urged to look after the child as soon as it is born, 
and even before, and the result has been a greatly decreased 
infant mortality. Many investigations have shown that the 
state of the child at birth is greatly affected by the conditions 
under which the mother has lived during the previous months, 
e.g. whether she has had sufficient rest from work, etc. 

Here, I should like to give Mr. Havelock Ellis 's summing 
up of the social reform of the last hundred years. 

It has proceeded in four stages : 

1. The effort to clear away the gross filth of our cities, to 
improve dwellings, to introduce sanitation, and to combat 
disease. 

2. The attempt to attack the problem more thoroughly by 
regulating the conditions of work and introducing the elaborate 
system of factory legislation. 

3. The still more fundamental step of taking in hand the 
children who have not yet reached the age for work, national- 
ising education, and ultimately pushing back the care and 
oversight of infants even to the moment of birth. 

4. Finally, most fundamental step of all, the effort which 
is still only beginning, to provide the conditions of healthy 
life even before birth. 

He adds that " We must realise, at the same time, that 
this movement has been exclusively concerned, not with the 
improvement of the quality of human life, but exclusively 
with the betterment of the conditions under which life is 
lived. It tacitly assumed that we have, no control over nor 
responsibility for its production. It accepted human life 
however enormous it might be in quantities, however defective 
in quality as a God-given fact which it would be impious to 
question. It heroically set itself co the endless task of cleansing 
the channels down which this muddy torrent swept. It 
never went to the source." 

Now, it is, of course, very important that the conditions 
of life should be right, and it always will be. The mistake 
has been in concentrating attention on the soil and ignoring 



8 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

the seed, or, as I suggested before, in the lop-sidedness of our 
social work. We don't want to relax our efforts at improving 
environment, tout we want to include also the care of the 
seed. As Mr. Ellis remarks, as long as we ignore the seed and 
concentrate on environment the greater are the burdens we 
are piling on ourselves, because we are making the way 
smooth for the fit and thus helping them to become fitter and 
to pass on their fitness to future generations, but alas, in 
even greater degree, we are smoothing the path for the unfit, 
helping them to compete with the fit and encouraging them 
to propagate their unfitness, where on a rougher road they 
would succumb to a greater extent than the fit and therefore be 
much less likely to pass on their unfitness to future generations. 

The results of our improvement of the conditions of life dur- 
ing the last hundred years have been disappointing, for though 
it has involved a heavy cost in money and labour, it is doubt- 
ful if the quality of our people is any better than it was when 
they lived under conditions of dirt, intemperance and disease 
which would not be tolerated for an instant to-day. One 
test of the success of Social Reform is the amount of pauperism 
existing. It should be decreased, but as a matter of fact it 
has remained fairly constant during the whole period of 
social reform, apart from the period of the War. 

Another instance of the failure of improvement in environ- 
ment is derived from study of the feeble-minded. In 1908, 
the Royal Commission on the Feeble-minded came to the 
conclusion that nearly J% of the population came under this 
head, exclusive of certified lunatics, and that half of these 
were unprovided for and a danger to Society, whilst many of 
the other half were not under the best conditions. Now 
feeble-mindedness is largely hereditary. It was formerly 
supposed to be due to drink, starvation, depravity, etc., and 
a few authorities still think so, but the majority of experts 
consider that none of these is the fundamental factor in pro- 
ducing feeble-mindedness ; e.g. Dr. Ashby, Medical Officer 
to Special Schools at Manchester, estimated that 75% feeble- 
minded children are born with the inherited defect, and later 
work by Dr. Tredgold gives 82% hereditary, whilst environ- 
ment accounts for 10%, and alcohol and consumption (or 



INTRODUCTORY 9 

both) account for 7%. Further, it is important to remember, 
in this connection, that fceble-mindedness is closely asso- 
ciated with Crime and Prostitution and Unemployableness ; 
e.g. 75% of the children in an industrial school were defective, 
the mental state being probably inborn. Lastly, for more 
than fifty years there has been reason to think that insanity 
is increasing. 

Now, if it be true that hitherto we have been ill-balanced 
in our attempts to help the world by attending solely to 
environment, we must try to substitute some better scheme. 
We cannot go back to the old method of " natural selection " 
or " sending the weakest to the wall " for two reasons : 

1. We are permeated with Christian ideals. 

2. Under Natural Selection the survivors suffer being 
rendered less fit than they might be. What we can do is to 
aim at preventing the production of the unfit. We want the 
already existing and growing sense of social responsibility to 
widen its outlook to include those who are coming after us, 
as well as those already with us. And this is by no means an 
impossibility, for during the War our men have been fighting 
very largely to save their children from the possibility of having 
to go through sufferings such as they have themselves endured. 
Surely when we realise how many other sufferings and 
disabilities we may save our children from by intelligent 
preparation for and guarding of parenthood, we shall not 
fail them through selfishness. The next question is, How is 
this to be done ? There are various answers because there 
are various possible lines of work. Indifference and ignorance 
and prejudice are big difficulties in the way. Parents need 
to be trained in the facts concerning the beginning of life, and 
to a grasp of the responsibilities which this knowledge lays 
on us, and this training should begin early, while the future 
parent is still a child. Of course one can only teach a child 
a little at a time, and gradually, but can any parent really 
think it good to leave such instruction to chance, to be picked 
up in the gutter, so to speak ? At present, mothers are often 
unfitted to give any teaching on the subject, and then the 
next best person is the teacher or doctor. As to methods, one 
cannot attempt to lay down the law, for the matter needs very 



10 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

serious consideration ; but I feel very strongly that instruction 
in sex-hygiene should be coupled with the teaching of the 
Christian ideal of the body, The Temple of the Holy Ghost. 
I believe that Knowledge, backed and inspired by the driving 
force of Christianity, is the combination that will bring about 
Race-regeneration, and that we cannot expect one without 
the other to do it. 

It is often said that consideration for the race will never 
alter the selfishness of humanity, but some doctors say 
that it is tending to do so, and there are signs that eugenic 
considerations will become a factor in the teaching of religion 
(compare Suggestions as to Marriage in Papers from Picardy, 
by Revs. G. Gordon and Pym). Again marriage-restrictions 
exist in every race, e.g. restrictions of caste, class, tribe, 
and there is no special hardship in a restriction from marrying 
into the class of the unhealthy. One wants such a restriction, 
however, if it is to be of real value, to spring from an educated 
Public Opinion, and not merely to be imposed by Law. A 
step in the right direction was taken in 1913, in the " Mental 
Deficiency Bill," which makes life-long care of the mentally 
deficient possible, this being mainly, of course, with the 
object of preventing marriage. 



CHAPTER II 
THE SKELETON 

Structure and development of bone General build Spinal curvature 
Flat-foot Joints. 

THIS consists of the bones and the connective tissue joining 
them. This connective tissue consists of cells mostly elongated 
into fibres, with some fluid between the fibres. When it joins 
bone to bone it is called ligament. 

Now, in early life, e.g. in a baby, bone consists largely of 
gristle or cartilage, of which most people know the appearance 

Cell 






Matrix 
Ob 



Fig-. 5. Section cf gristle (magnified) 

and characters, from ordinary meal-time experiences. Gristle 
consists of a smooth, elastic, transparent, blue-white glassy 
substance, and under the microscope one can see groups of 
round or oval cells here and there in the glassy matrix. There 
are no blood-vessels in it. It is, of course, much less brittle 
and much more flexible than bone, and hence a baby's bones 
are comparatively soft, i.e. they bend easily, though they 

ii 



12 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

are less likely to snap than are those of the adult. Hence the 
special care needed in the matter of posture in children, and 
the characteristic type of fracture in children, known as 
the Greenstick fracture, i.e. a sudden strain or blow on a 
child's bone does not produce a clean definite break, but a 
bending and splitting, similar to what happens if you try to 
break off a green branch. 

The change which converts this gristly bone into the 
ordinary, hard, adult bone is called ossification, and begins 
before birth and continues till twelve or possibly a good deal 
later (e.g. twenty-five). At any rate, one must consider the 
child's bones as being plastic throughout the greater part of 
its school-life. The process of ossification is due to blood- 
vessels growing into the cartilage, from the membrane 
covering the bone. This causes the gristle-cells to burst, and 
in their place bone-cells appear, arranged in circles round the 
blood-vessels, so forming tiny canals through which the 
blood-vessels run. These bone-cells produce calcium salts 
which are hard and bony, and thus the gristle gets more and 
more mineralised, till finally two-thirds of it is mineral and 
only one-third gristle. Unaltered gristle remains in a few 
places, e.g. it forms the framework of the external ear and 
the end of the nose, and it joins the ends of the ribs to the 
breast -bone. 

Experiment to demonstrate presence of Mineral matter and 
gristle in bone. 

Two rabbit bones : 

1. Soaked in acid, which dissolves the mineral, leaving 
gristle. 

2. Burnt -the residue being mineral. 

In the bones of the skull the process of development is 
different, since they are not preceded by cartilage, but merely 
by a membrane which flings out a layer of bone (except in 
the case of the sphenoid and ethmoid bones). 

Structure of a long Bone. If we take any long bone, 
such as the thigh or arm-bone, we find that it has a long shaft 
and two enlarged ends, covered with gristle in life, the shaft 
being covered with a tough membrane rich in blood-vessels 
and nerves. On slicing it in half longitudinally, it is found 



THE SKELETON 



13 



that the shaft is hollow, the bone casing being compact, whilst 
the bone forming the ends is spongy, i.e. full of spaces, con- 
taining red marrow. The hollow in the shaft contains yellow 
marrow. The marrow is supplied with blood by blood-vessels 



Membrane 



Compact Bone 



Yellow Marrow 




Gristle 

Spongy Bone 

containing red 

Marrow 



Fig. 6. Diagrammatic section of a long bone 

entering through a hole in the shaft. Marrow is of use because 
it manufactures red and white corpuscles (or blood-cells) for 
the blood. The blood-vessels in the out-side covering mem- 
brane pass into the bone, along the canals, and nourish it. 

The Build of the Skeleton. The mainstay of the whole 
is the spinal column, consisting of separate bones, called 




Neck or Cervical Vertebrae 
-"-Collarbone 

_ -Breastbone 

---Rib 

- - - -Arm bone(Humerus^ 



- -Pelvic or Hip bone 

Sacrum 
Coccyx 

- -Wrist 



Thigh bone (Femur) 



Fig. 7 The skeleton 



THE SKELETON 



15 



vertebra, twenty-six in the adult and thirty-three in the baby. 
The vertebrae get bigger from above downwards, and the 
top and bottom pairs are specialised, but a typical vertebra 
from anywhere else in the spine consists of a solid body 
and three projections, enclosing a cavity. These bones 
fit one on top of the other, so that the holes form a 
tube, down which the spinal cord runs from the brain. The 
two top vertebrae are called the atlas and axis. The top one, 
or atlas, supports the head and has no body., but two smooth 
surfaces which fit against two similar surfaces on the base of 



7 Spinous Process 




Transverse 
Process - 



Canal for 
Spinal Cord 



Body 



Fig. 8. A vertebra 

the skull. The second, or axis, has a peg which sticks up 
through the ring of the atlas and so forms a pivot joint, on 
which the head turns. The two bottom vertebrae, the sacrum 
and coccyx, form nine separate bones in a baby, but these 
join in groups of five and four in the adult. The sacrum is a 
thick, strong bone, roughly triangular in shape, fitting 
between the two hip-bones. The coccyx is a little rudimentary 
tail. 

Each vertebra is separated from its neighbours by pads of 
gristle, which act as buffers, stopping jars to the brain, and 
allow of slight rotation and of bending between each pair, 
the total power of turning and bending being consider- 
able. 



16 



A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 



The Shape of the Spine as a whole . Looked at from the 
back the spine should form a straight line ; if not, it means 
lateral curvature. 



(D! 



(2) 



Front 



Back | 



(4) 



Fig-. 9. Curves of the spine (side view) 

From the side it has four curves, known as : 

1. The Cervical (or neck curve). 

2. The Dorsal (or shoulder curve). 

3. The Lumbar (or waist curve). 

4. The sacrum and coccyx curve. 

The use of these curves is to give greater capacity for exten- 
sion and compression than would be possible if the spine were 
straight, and so to avoid jars to the brain ; e.g. a sudden UD- 



THE SKELETON 



17 



ward shock to the bottom of the spine would expend itself 
in accentuating momentarily the curves, as shown by the 
dotted line in the diagram, and there would be comparatively 
little movement transmitted to the skull. Further, these 
curves make the upright posture possible. 

Development of the Curves. At birth, only the dorsal curve 
is present, then as the child raises its head, the neck-curve 
appears, and as it begins to walk the loin-curve appears. 



Fig. 10. Round shoulders and hollow back 

Excess in the Curves is very common and bad. 

(a) Excessive loin-curve (hollow-back) is largely due to 
weakness of the abdominal muscles. Two to four per cent of 
children show it. 

(b) Excessive shoulder-curvature (round shoulders) is also 
common and often combined with extra compensatory 
curvature in the loin-region. It may be due to muscular 
weakness, or weak will, or short-sight, resulting in habitual 
wrong attitudes. It is accompanied necessarily by flat -chest, 
drooping head and prominent abdomen, and if not due to 



18 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

short sight, will often help to produce it. Hence from the 
aesthetic and the health points of view, it should be remedied. 
Suitable exercises and correct posture give good results in 
early cases, but not in the later stages, though they may 
hold these stages in check. The reason why curvature is 
incurable in the later stages is that the cartilage pads between 
the vertebras are compressed on the concave side and gradually 
decrease on this side, as may the bone itself. So we end with 
a structural defect. Acute backward curvature (hump-back) 
is usually due to tubercle of the spine. 

(c) Lateral curvature means usually, in children, a left 
curvature, giving rise to prominence of the right hip and 



Bone 
Carti/age 




Fig 1 . 11. Diagram showing wedge-shaped 
cartilag-es in a curved spine 

raising of the right shoulder. It may be due to inequality of 
the legs, or to bad postures, e.g. standing on one leg, sitting 
sideways to write, etc. Twenty-five per cent of children show 
some degree of it, and about one-tenth of these need systematic 
treatment. Severe lateral curvature is usually to the^ght in 
the dorsal and the left in the lumbar region, and needs^a long 
period of rest. It is commonest in girls and often due to 
rickets. Slight lateral curvature needs right posture and 
exercises. 

The Skull consists of two parts : the cranium, enclosing 
the brain and occupying two-thirds of the whole, and the face. 
The cranium consists of eight bones, joined by a special kind 
of dovetail joint called a suture, and the chief point to 
remember is that in a baby these are not joined, so that the 



THE SKELETON 19 

brain may have room to grow ; there are also two gaps, the 
anterior and posterior fontanelles, which allow of the skull 
enduring, without cracking, the huge strain put on it at 
birth. These close at about two years old. Hence the need 
of great care to prevent knocks or falls on the head, as the 
result may be brain injury. 

b 




Fig. 12. Baby's skull at birth from above 

a. Anterior fontanelle 

b. Posterior fontanelle 

(From The Baby. E. A. Saunders. Methuen) 

The Trunk is divided into an upper and lower part: the 
upper is the chest, or thorax ; the lower is the abdomen. 

i. The Chest framework consists of the upper part of the 
spine, behind ; the breast -bone in front, and the ribs (twelve 
pairs) joining the two. The last two pairs do not join the 
breast -bone and are therefore termed 'floating.' 

The ribs are connected by muscles, running somewhat 
slantingly, and by these the ribs are raised or lowered during 
breathing. 

It is worth noting that the ribs widen as they descend, and 
therefore tight -lacing (mercifully now unfashionable) was 
bound to distort them and so squeeze lungs and heart, the 
two great organs occupying the chest cavity. 

Round the top of the thorax lies the shoulder-girdle, con- 
sisting of the two triangular shoulder-blades behind and the 
two collar-bones in front. The shoulder-blade is united by a 
joint at the shoulder to the collar-bone and to the arm-bone. 



20 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

The other end of the collar-bone is jointed to the breast -bone. 
(See diagram of skeleton.) 

2. The abdominal framework is called the pelvis or pelvic 
girdle, and is formed of the sacrum and coccyx behind, to 
which join the two great hip-bones, which unite in front. 
The rounded head of the thigh-bone fits into a cup-like 
hollow in the hip-bone, so forming a ball-and-socket joint. 

The Limbs. The arm has one long bone reaching from 
shoulder to elbow (humerus) ; two from elbow to wrist 
(radius and ulna). The wrist is formed of eight small, roughly 
cubical bones. The hand has five bones (metacarpals) in the 
palm and three (phalanges) in each finger except the thumb, 
which has two. 

The leg has one long bone (the femur) reaching from hip to 
knee, and two from knee to ankle (tibia, fibula). The ankle 
has seven bones,, of which one is much the biggest and forms 
the heel. The foot has five (metatarsal) bones embedded in 
the solid part and three in each toe except the great toe, 
which has two (phalanges). 

Bone Disease. The two chief diseases of bone are 
Rickets, which is discussed in Chapter VII, and Tubercle, 
which is described in Chapter XVIII. 

Flat-foot. This is a common deformity, as is illustrated 
by Dr. Kerr's statement that before the War it caused the 
rejection of one-third of the recruits in some Euiopean 
armies. About one -third of the children in the poorer schools 
have some degree of flat-foot. 

The condition is aggravated by much heavy work out of 
school, and by heavy, stiff boots and clogs, especially in the 
case of weakly, ill-fed children. 

The immediate cause is the stretching of the ligaments 
supporting the arch of the foot, so that the whole sole touches 
the ground instead of only the heel, toes and outer side of the 
foot. The result is pain and a clumsy gait. The treatment 
consists in heel-raising exercises, walking on tip-toe, dancing 
and skipping. Older people may. need supports in the shoes. 

Joints. These are places where bones join. They may be 
fixed or movable. Examples of fixed joints are seen in the 
sutures of the skull. Examples of movable joints are seen 



THE SKELETON 



21 



in the pivot-joint between axis and atlas, the hinge-joint at 
the elbow ; the ball-and-socket joints at shoulder and hip. 

The structure of the ordinary movable joint is shown 
diagrammatically in the accompanying sketch. The ends of 
the two bones are enclosed in a bag of connective tissue called 
the capsular ligament and lined with cells which pour out a 
sticky lubricating fluid (synovial fluid). This, together with 
the gristle covering the ends of bones, enables the bones to 
move over one another without grating. Sometimes when 
joints crack and grate on bending, it is due to drying up of 
the fluid. 




Synovial 

Membrane 

Capsular 
Ligament 



Fig-. 13. Diagrammatic section through a joint 

Conditions of Joints for which the Teacher should 
be on the look-out. Pain, if chronic, usually means tubercle, 
or rheumatism. It is often described as " growing-pains, "- 
a bad misnomer, since healthy growth is painless, and is 
usually accompanied by stiffness. The hip and knee are most 
commonly affected, and so the child limps and stands on one 
leg. 

Treatment. The child should be sent away from school, 
and given rest, food and fresh air. The limb should be in 
splints if tuberculous. Rheumatism is serious because of its 
effect on the heart. 



CHAPTER III 

THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM 

Structure of muscle Relation to bones Movement Growth 
Physical exercise (games, dancing, swimming, formal) 
Posture Muscular fatigue Place of manual work. 

MOST of the flesh consists of muscles. 

A muscle consists of microscopic fibres arranged in bundles, 
a great many of these bundles existing in every muscle. 
Usually at each end the fibres pass into tough connective 
tissue which joins different bones. Connective tissue of this 
sort, joining muscle to bone, is called a tendon. If the muscle 




Fig-. 14. Diagram of muscle-fibre 

Dotted lines show fibre contracted, and the consequent 
pulling of bone (2) nearer to bone (i) 

passes over a joint, its tendons join different bones, and the 
points of junction of tendon and bone are respectively called 
the origin and insertion of the muscle. Each fibre contains 
liquid, which is the reason why meat is juicy, and it can 
change its shape from being long and thin to being short and 
fat, and vice versa. Also, it is sometimes marked with 
alternate dark and light lines, running transversely. Such a 
muscle is said to be striated, or striped ; others lack striations 
and are therefore called unstriated. Amongst the fibres lie 
nerves, blood-vessels and connective tissue. 



THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM 



The Work of Muscles is to produce movement. When the 
brain decides that some part of the body shall move, it sends 
nervous energy along the nerve leading to the muscles con- 
cerned, and this stimulates the fibres to contract i.e. get 
shorter and fatter. The energy needed for muscular con- 
traction is derived from chemical changes in the muscle, 
partly oxidation and partly decomposition, which give rise 
to waste products, of which the simplest is carbon dioxide. 



"^Scapula 



Triceps 




Fig-. 15. To show the action of the biceps muscle 

in bending- the forearm 
(From Thornton's Elementary Physiology. Longmans, Green and Co.) 

These are removed by the blood as it flows through the 
excretory organs. A further effect of the chemical changes 
occurring in a muscle when it contracts is heat -production. 
This heat is distributed over the body by the blood-stream, 
so keeping the temperature constant ; e.g. the temperature 
of a beehive may be 20 higher when the bees are excited and 
angry than when they are quiet. If a muscle contract, 
movement is bound to occur at the joint over which that 
muscle passes ; e.g. the action of the biceps muscle, forming 



24 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

the fleshy part of the front of the arm, brings about the 
raising of the forearm. The biceps is so called because it has 
two origins on the shoulder-blade. It is inserted into the 
radius. When it contracts, the forearm is pulled up, the 
bending occurring at the elbow. When it relaxes, and there- 
fore lengthens, the forearm falls back, and the return is helped 
by contraction of the triceps, forming the flesh at the back 
of the arm. 

Involuntary Muscles. These act independently of the 
conscious part of the brain. They form the walls of the 
internal organs, such as the heart and stomach. One knows 
from experience that the heart beats and the stomach-walls 
move and churn up the food independently of our wills. 
Hence the name. These involuntary muscles have no striations 
or tendons. 

Growth of Muscle is due to division of the fibres longi- 
tudinally, thus producing new fibres. This division is 
encouraged by a good supply of healthy blood, carrying food 
to the muscle. This involves (i) exercise ; (2) pure blood. 
One knows from experience the muscular effect of a sedentary 
life, or of disuse due to illness, viz. flabby flesh, of poor " tone." 
Further, insufficient or wrong food affects the quality of the 
blood, and hence the food-supply to the muscle. So does 
lack of fresh air. (3) In addition to (i) and (2), a muscle 
needs rest after exercise, to allow the blood time to remove 
the waste-products formed by the chemical changes in the 
muscle. These products cause the sensation of fatigue and are 
removed from the blood by the excretory organs : skin, 
kidneys and lungs. 

Physical Exercises. At this point we may well consider 
the question of physical exercises and especially with regard 
to school children. It has been realised for some time that 
brain and body are so interdependent that no true education 
could ignore body-training, and also that the conditions of 
school-life are unnatural and cramping. Hence the intro- 
duction of games and physical exercises into school-life. 
The old proverb about " A healthy mind in a healthy body " 
ts a statement of fact for the generality of humanity, though 
here and there one may light on exceptions. 



THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM 25 

TheBenefits of Organised Games 1 are probably familiar to 
you ; they are at least as much mental and moral as physical. 

(a) The physical effects include quickened heart-beat and 
blood-flow, and therefore greater food-supply to the muscles, 
and quicker removal of waste. Breathing, excretion, digestion, 
all go on faster, therefore appetite increases and there is less 
liability to chest ailments and indigestion. Dr. Kerr thinks the 
best way to develop both respiration and circulation is to have 
frequent periods of play for young children. Strength increases, 
fatigue decreases. Finally, the nervous system is stimulated. 

(b) The mental and moral effect is to develop quickness 
of decision, coolness, judgment, esprit de corps, subjugation 
of individual interests to those of the community (side or 
eleven), self-control in victory and defeat, public-spirit, and 
to give enjoyment and pleasure. 

Hitherto the provision for organised games in the Elementary 
School has been as scanty as that in the large Public Schools 
has been generous, but an increasing number of Education 
Authorities are now making provision for such games, and 
the tendency is admirable : e.g. (i) Manchester has a good 
scheme, in which the parks are utilised. Only Standards 
four to seven can share in these games, but it is hoped that 
gradually all the schools will have facilities for them. The 
Superintendent of Physical Exercise has arranged classes to 
coach teachers in games (excluding cricket and football). 
(2) Birmingham has three playing fields and excellent arrange- 
ments for games on summer evenings in parks, etc., for 
working lads and girls as well as for school children. 

It has been suggested that further facilities for games 
might be provided by Local Education Authorities by : 

1. Full or extended use of schools, playgrounds, etc., out of 
school-hours and during holidays. 

2. Provision and equipment of recreation grounds and open 
spaces. 

3. Employment of skilled supervisors for evening and 
outdoor recreation. 

4. Co-operation with voluntary associations. 

1 For the special value of dancing and swimming, see Board's new 
Syllabus of Physical Exercise. 



26 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

Girls and women usually lack exercise more than boys or 
men ; and it is wise to teach girls the effects including 
superfluous fat, blotchy skin, poor blood, clumsiness, con- 
stipation, etc. 

Formal Physical Exercises have all the above-mentioned 
physical effects, if properly conducted, though they are not 
of such moral value. In addition, they are so adjusted as to 
exercise all parts of the body, and one cannot rely on most 
games to do this. Their object is to help in the production of 
a well-balanced and harmoniously developed body and mind, 
not to produce an athlete. Their effects are classified in the 
Board of Education Syllabus of Physical Exercises, thus : 

Effects of Physical Exercise 

PHYSICAL EDUCATIONAL 



e.g. discipline, 
Nutritive Corrective Developmental order, quick and 
for defects (or control) cheerful response 

and mal- to orders, endur- 

postures. ance, self-re- 

straint, co-opera- 
tion. 

A fuller discussion and explanation of these effects is given 
in the Syllabus, and it should be read in connection with this 
chapter. 

General Rules for Physical Exercise 

1. Since it is much more tiring physically and mentally 
than play, most people agree that formal physical exercise 
is not fit for young children. Some authorities consider 
eight to nine the best age at which to begin, and though the 
Board of Education says that some preliminary instruction 
can be given from five to seven, it points out that lessons 
must be short (not more than fifteen minutes) with plenty of 
stop for rest ; commands must be jn the ordinary speaking 
voice, and no precision of movement must be demanded. 

2. Lessons should be frequent, short and daily giving 
better results than long and bi-weekly, say. The time usually 



THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM 27 

given to the subject is one hour a week, and this is best 
divided into three periods of twenty minutes, because it 
enables a complete table to be taught three times a week. It 
cannot be done in less, and if one group of exercises is omitted 
the lesson loses its balance and completeness and cannot be 
regarded as satisfactory. 

In some schools four or five lessons a week are given, e.g. 
Shropshire Education Committee recommends fifteen to 
twenty minutes daily. In this case two lessons can be given 
to more recreative work, such as games, dancing or swim- 
ming. 

3. Both lessons in physical exercises and games should be 
regular, irregular exercises often doing more harm than 
good, because the muscles, being out of condition, are strained 
by the sudden call on them, and this may injure the heart. 

4. Lessons must be graduated, to suit age. 

5. Lessons must not involve over-fatigue or overstrain or 
risk of heart -tiouble. 

A certain number of children in school are unfit to go 
through a complete lesson in physical exercise. These include 
a good many rapidly growing or overgrown children, especially 
girls between the ages of thirteen and sixteen. Dr. Warner 
estimated that seven per cent of girls between these ages 
should be entirely excused from the lessons. Further, 
rheumatic children are likely to fall into this category, because 
rheumatism is so often accompanied by heart -weakness, and 
one should remember that " growing-pains " usually mean 
rheumatism and that for practical purposes St. Vitus' Dance 
is a form of rheumatism (viz. of the brain). Again, children 
who are " run-down " and debilitated after an attack of 
illness, such as measles or diphtheria, and any suffering from 
heart-disease, should have less strenuous exercise than the 
normal child. One should immediately pick out children 
who get cold, pale or breathless towards the end of a lesson. 

6. Lessons must be varied, to avoid monotony. 

7. Lessons must be in the open air, if possible if not with 
all doors and windows open. 

8. Common mistakes must be stopped, e.g. holding breath, 
contracting or unduly expanding chest. 



28 



A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 



9. Suitable clothes should be worn : at any rate tight belts 
and collars can be undone, and it is possible to make shoes in 
school, from felt, list, etc. These can be worn for drill, and 
incidentally the changing gives the teacher a chance to see 
stockings that badly need mending and to urge that this be 
done. This has actually been done in a London school which 
was famous for its dirtiness and general unpleasantness, by 
a head mistress who determined to reform matters, and she 
succeeded extraordinarily. 

10. Consult the doctor about doubtful cases, e.g. spinal 
curvature, marked shortness of breath, heart cases. 

Posture. One wants common sense here. There is no need 
to worry children over trifles, but really bad postures may 




Fig 1 . 16. Good position : Writing- 
Essential points : Whole of thigh supported. Base of spine 
against back of chair. Chair close enough to desk. Eyes at 
correct distance from work. 

produce serious results and therefore must be corrected. Of 
course, hygienic desks and time-table are needed ; without 
them one cannot avoid wrong postures. The children who 
specially need watching in class are the pale, flabby individuals, 
especially girls from twelve to fourteen years old. The lessons 



THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM 



29 




Fig-. 17. Bad position : Writing- 
Essential points : Thighs and spine unsupported. Chest and 
lungs cramped. Shoulders lifted. Chair too far from desk. 




Fig. 18. Good position : Reading- 
Essential points : Whole length of thighs, spine, and anus 
supported. Eyes at correct distance from work. 



30 



A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 



which specially need watching are reading, writing, sewing and 
drawing. 

Good posture is one in which the body is so balanced as to 
produce least fatigue. In sitting, this means that the child 
should sit squarely, i.e. with shoulders and hips level, head 
and spine in line, and he should be able to sweep the forearm 





Fig-. 19. Bad position : Sewing- 
Essential points : Thig-hs, feet, 
and spine insufficiently supported. 
Spine bent, ribs cramped in front, 
shoulders not level. 



Fig. 20. Bad position : Standing 
"on one leg," i.e. with one knee 
bent 



Essential points : Curvature of 
spine. Tilting of shoulders and 
hips. 

Figs. 1 6 to 20 by permission of the Ling Association. The full set of 
10 diagrams can be obtained from Messrs. Sherratt and Hughes, 60 
Chandos Street, W.C., and 27 St. Ann's Street, Manchester. 

Size, 15" x 20", on card ; price, 6s 6d. post free. 

over the desk without raising the shoulder when the elbow 
is bent at right angles and touching the side of the body. 
The correct distance between eyes and work is one foot. 

Bad posture is commonest in 'writing, where the child 
often sits with one arm on the desk and the other off it, and 
with the head close to the paper. The results are headache, 



THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM 31 

short sight, spinal curvature, flat chest, and therefore a 
tendency to chest-troubles and a general decrease of vitality. 
Vertical writing is least conducive to wrong postures, and 
there is no reason why the paper should not slant slightly. 

Muscular Fatigue and Overwork 

Definition and cause of fatigue (largely from the Report of 
the Health of Munition Workers Committee on Industrial 
Efficiency and Fatigue). 

" Fatigue is the sum of the results of activity which show 
themselves in a diminished capacity for doing work." 

The Report proceeds to point out that we usually estimate 
fatigue by our sensations of tiredness, and that it is absolutely 
necessary to realise that these sensations are a most untrust- 
worthy index. We are often quite unconscious of fatigue in 
its earliest stages, and the only reliable way of measuring it, 
at any stage of its progress, is by the reduction in capacity 
for work which it produces. 

The performance of work depends on the activities of three 
parts of the body : (i) brain and spinal cord, which are con- 
cerned in the initiation and distribution of impulses to action. 

(2) The nerves, which conduct the impulses to muscles. 

(3) The muscles themselves, which by contracting finally 
perform external work. Fatigue has been separately studied 
in all these parts, and in all it has been found that fatigue 
depends not on the simple using up of the substances supplying 
the chemical energy liberated during work, but on the accumu- 
lation in these parts of the products (toxins) of these chemical 
changes. Fatigue, this is to say, is not to be compared with 
the failure of fuel in a steam-engine or with the running-down 
of a clock-weight, but rather with the clogging of the wheels 
of a machine by dirt. These products of activity of nerve 
or muscle-cells are removed by the blood. Rest after work 
is not a passive state, therefore, but is itself an active process, 
leading to restoration of the normal capacity for work, and 
it requires time, in proportion to the amount of restoration 
needed. If the activity is repeated too quickly to give time 
enough for restoration after each action, fatigue will become 
progressively more and more, until further action is impossible. 



32 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

Of the three groups of organs mentioned above, fatigue 
practically does not occur in the nerves, probably being 
unrecognisable owing to their quick recovery and the very 
small changes in them. Of the other two groups, the brain and 
cord centres are more quickly fatigued than the muscles, and 
the important result follows that the brain cannot bring the 
muscles far towards complete fatigue before it is itself 
fatigued and powerless. In a tired man the symptoms of 
fatigue are referred to the muscles ; they ache or seem " to 
give way under him," but really the most severe bodily work 
fails to produce any close approach to complete muscular 
fatigue. The fatigue is fatigue of the Nervous System, though 
in sensation its effects may be referred to the muscles them- 
selves. The problems of fatigue are therefore primarily and 
almost wholly problems of fatigue in the Nervous System 
and of its direct 'and indirect effects. 

Rhythm of Action and Rest. By this we mean the 
exact length of work and rest which just allows of recovery 
after each act, and which will therefore allow the action to be 
performed over long periods without accumulation of fatigue. 
It is found that there is a natural rhythm for every action, 
e.g. heart-beat, breathing, etc., but this natural pace can be 
altered by training and use ; e.g. for work in which severe 
muscular effort is needed, the maximum output and the best 
conditions for the worker's comfort and health are attained 
by short spells broken by longer rests, and this point has 
practical bearing on many industries ; e.g. two officers at the 
Front recently competed in making equal lengths of trench 
with equal numbers of men. One let the men work as they 
chose, but as hard as possible. The other divided them into 
three sets to work in rotation for five minutes and rest ten 
minutes, and won easily. 

The Committee states that hours of work should vary 
according to the character of the work. This fact is not 
realised by many managers, and the tendency is to uniform 
hours for all kinds of work, and for both sexes. Data collected 
show that women are unfit for the heavier kinds of work, and 
even on moderate and light jobs they can't stand such long 
hours as men. It is obvious that if we impose rhythms of work 






THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM 33 

and rest which are faster than the natural ones, we get accu- 
mulated fatigue and therefore diminished capacity for work. 
Symptoms of Fatigue, i. The essential symptom, as 
stated above, is reduced capacity to do the act that caused 
the fatigue, but (2) there is evidence to show that accumulated 
fatigue in connection with a given act may affect adversely 
the condition of other parts of the Nervous System, not 
directly employed ; e.g. it has been shown that immediately 
after a gymnastic lesson intellectual work is not as good as 
before, and the backwardness of many " half-timers " is 
probably due to muscular fatigue, to a certain extent. It 
is doubtful, however, if these associated or indirect results 
provide a trustworthy index of the primary fatigue : they 
give indications, but irregularly in some cases, and not at all 
in others, that the general " tone " of the Nervous System is 
lowered after a day's work and also declines during a week's 
work. 

3. An important and early sign of fatigue is a want of 
co-ordination and failure in power of concentration, shown in 
the increased frequency of trifling accidents, due to momen- 
tary loss of attention. These may result in the breaking of 
tools, spoiling of work, etc. 

4. The accumulated results of fatigue are damaging to 
general health and " spirits," and in factories, for example, this 
shows clearly in returns for sickness and lost time. A common 
symptom of accumulated industrial fatigue is its effect on 
the " spirits " of the sufferer, who feels stale, done-up, in- 
different, lethargic and at the same time craves for change 
and excitement, a craving which probably often leads to 
alcoholic and other forms of intemperance. This, during the 
war, was a common state of affairs in many munition works, 
and experienced managers and doctors attributed it almost 
entirely to long hours and absence of the Sunday rest. A 
single day off, given occasionally, would probably have 
avoided much waste of capacity and reduction of output. 
One foreman says that Sunday work gives " six days' out- 
put for seven days' work on eight days' pay." In one factory 
in the Midlands where there was much Sunday work in the 
spring of 1916, twenty-two per cent of men were sick at 



34 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

one time ; but in August when Sunday work had been much 
reduced, only four per cent were ill. This huge reduction in 
illness was partly due to change of season, but figures from a 
neighbouring factory showed that the spring was not abnor- 
mally unhealthy, and probably the cutting-down of Sunday 
work was the chief factor. 

5. Feelings of tiredness, lassitude. 

6. Subsidiary symptoms may be shown by certain of the 
facial muscles, e.g. by irregular action of the frontalis muscle 
which raises the eyebrows, and of the corrugator muscle 
which contracts the brows, so producing horizontal and verti- 
cal furrows, and of the orbicular muscles round eyes and 
mouth. Of these, the orbicular eye-muscles are affected 
first, giving baggy, puffy eyelids. 

An interesting point brought out by the Committee on 
Health of Munition Workers is the un-wisdom of work before 
breakfast. Before a meal output is less than after, and 
also much " lost-time " (i.e. absence from work) occurs 
before breakfast. 

Overstrain. This is the result of fatigue which has ad- 
vanced to the stage of exhaustion, and it not only reduces 
capacity for the moment, but does more permanent damage, 
affecting capacity for periods far beyond the next normal 
period of rest. It is very uneconomical to allow this damage, 
and therefore work should stop when the first signs show 
themselves, for just long enough for recuperation. Remember 
here that the feelings are very untrustworthy guides. Quality 
and quantity of work is the best test. 

Treatment of Fatigue : 

1. A hot bath, followed by a brisk rub-down, is good because 
it causes a flow of blood to the skin, and therefore more 
excretion of toxin from the skin. 

2. Change of Work. When fatigue is local only, change of 
work will rest the tired part ; hence it is good to mix physical 
and different kinds of mental work, so as to use different 
brain-centres. Nevertheless, as long as any work is being 
done, general fatigue is increasing and sleep is the only way 
to relieve this. (See Chapter XL) 



THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM 35 

Place of Manual Work. We may consider this in con- 
nection with the whole question of exercise. Originally hand- 
work was introduced into the schools from a purely utilitarian 
motive, i.e. children were taught needlework, cookery, wood- 
work, etc., in order to train dexterity in home-occupations 
or trades. Later it was noticed that children who were taught 
handwork improved in general mentality, the Industrial, 
Reformatory and Defective Schools being pioneers in this 
discovery, i.e. the close connection between hand and brain 
was realised. This, of course, results from the facts, already 
explained, that muscles are in direct communication with 
brain-centres, via nerves, that brain-centres are connected 
with one another, and that therefore muscular work in- 
evitably means brainwork, and may strengthen centres other 
than those governing hand and eye. Hence handwork is 
further justified on the score that it is brain-culture. The 
little child has a natural tendency to bodily activity and to 
constant practical experiment with his hands, and if we do 
not give him outlets* for this natural instinct we deprive him 
of a primary necessity for mental development. This fact 
is recognised increasingly, especially in our Infant Schools. 
Apart from its mental value, handwork gives valuable relief 
from the more fixed and unnatural positions necessitated by 
many of the other subjects in the curriculum. 

Choice of handwork. One must remember, here, that the 
child's brain-centres are very immature and are rapidly 
developing, but not all simultaneously. The centres govern- 
ing large, coarse movements mature before those for small, 
fine movements. Hence the child kicks and stretches and 
waves its arms about long before it can draw or sew, and the 
moral is that we must choose handwork according to the 
child's age, for if we " force " centres to a premature develop- 
ment we not only get poor work, but we run the risk of 
damaging the whole Nervous System. 




CHAPTER IV 
THE CIRCULATORY SYSTEM 



Blood Heart and blood-vessels Circulation Symptoms of abnor- 
mality in blood or heart-action Lymphatic system. 

THIS consists of the heart, blood-vessels and the blood in 
them. 

Blood looks red to the naked eye, but under the microscope 
is a yellowish fluid containing two kinds of tiny corpuscles : 
(a) yellow ones (red in the mass) shaped like discs with thick 





Red in Pro file 



Red Discs 

Red in 
Rouleaux 



Amoeboid 
Fig. 21. Blood corpuscles : red, white, and amoeboid 

(From Narramore's Preliminary Physiology, Methuen) 

edges, about 5 X io 6 per drop. These contain haemoglobin, a 
nitrogenous substance, which has great affinity for oxygen, 
forming oxyhaemoglobin which is a bright red substance. 
Hence the colour of arterial blood. It also has great affinity 
for carbon ihonoxide (CO), and if this be present in the air, 
which it ought not to be, it combines with the haemoglobin, 

36 



THE CIRCULATORY SYSTEM 37 

forming carboxyhaemoglobin, also bright red. The result is 
that the corpuscles can no longer take up oxygen, and hence 
headache, giddiness, faintness and, pretty quickly, death. If 
this happens at night people often die in their sleep ; e.g. 
the French novelist, Zola, and his wife died thus. Carbon 
monoxide is the " after-damp " resulting from mine-explosions. 
Men going into a mine after an explosion sometimes take 
canaries because these are affected by carbon monoxide 
more quickly than are human beings. 

(b) White corpuscles (phagocytes) like the amceba are of 
no definite shape. They are bigger than the red and less 
numerous, in the proportion 1 : 500, and have the power of 
independent movement, e.g. they can work their way through 
the walls of the blood-vessels to any place where they are 
wanted. Last and chief, they can seize and feed on and 
therefore destroy small particles such as germs. 

The fluid or plasma is the carrier of food, and the remover 
of waste stuff, such as carbon dioxide, etc. 

Clotting. This is a very useful property of blood. When 
in contact with air, it solidifies after a few minutes into a kind 
of jelly which often stops bleeding and may save life. In 
rendering first-aid, never disturb any clot that has foimed. 

Heart and Blood-vessels. The heart is pear-shaped, 
about the size of the fist, placed in the centre of the thorax, 

Blood Vessels 




Walls of 
> Pericardium ; 

Wall of Chest 
Fig. 22. Diagram showing position of heart in thorax 

with the broad end upwards and the apex downwards, 
pointing slightly to the left and resting on the diaphragm. It 
is enclosed in a double-walled bag, the pericardium, between 



38 



A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 



whose walls a lubricating fluid is secreted which prevents 
friction between the walls as the heart expands and contracts. 
Inflammation of the bag is known as pericarditis and involves 
production of too much fluid. The rest of the thorax is filled 
by the lungs, which wrap round the heart, and just below the 
diaphragm comes the stomach. Hence any enlargement of 
either of these, such as occurs in certain forms of pleurisy and 
in flatulence, means pressure on the heart and therefore inter- 
ference with its working. 

Internal structure. The walls of the heart are built of 
muscle-fibres running round it transversely. The interior 



Superior 
Vena Cav 



Inferior 
Vena 

Cava 




Pulmonary 
Artery 

Fig-. 23. Diagrammatic section of heart 



contains four chambers : two upper the auricles, and two 
lower the ventricles. The left auricle and ventricle are 
connected by a flap-like valve opening downwards only. 
The right auricle and ventricle are similarly connected. 

Blood-vessels. The main vessels either take blood from the 
heart (arteries) or bring blood to the heart (veins). Their 
openings are as indicated in the diagram. The aorta supplies 
the whole body except the lungs. The pulmonary artery 
supplies the lungs. The two veins opening into the right 
auricle bring back blood from the whole body except the 



THE CIRCULATORY SYSTEM 39 

lungs. The three (or four) veins opening into the left auricle 
bring back blood from the lungs. 

The arteries branch continually, after leaving the heart, 
and the branches get finer and the walls thinner till eventually 

Capillaries 




Vein 



Fig". 24. Union of artery and vein 

they end in capillary vessels (hair-like). These capillaries 
unite the smallest arteries to the smallest veins. The very 
tiny veins run together into bigger and bigger ones, the 
terminals being those shown in Fig. 23. At intervals in the 

To Heart 




Fig. 25. Vein laid open to show valves 



veins occur valves, which are pocket-like flaps, permitting 
blood to flow past them towards the heart easily, but blocking 
the vein if the blood attempts to flow backwards, away from 
the heart. Varicose veins result from the breaking down of 
these valves. 



40 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

Circulation of Blood is brought about by rhythmical 
contraction and expansion of the heart muscles. This recurs 
about seventy-two times per minute in the adult, but quickens 
in fever and in children ; e.g. in a child of twelve the normal 
pulse is eighty to ninety ; in fever it may be one hundred and 
twenty or more. The heart slows down in sleep. Contraction 
begins at the top of the heart and spreads downwards in a 
wave to the tip, with the result that the blood is squeezed 
out of the auricles into the ventricles and from these into the 
arteries. Valves stop it from flowing back from ventricle to 
auricle. Then relaxation begins also in the auricles, which 
therefore expand and so fill up with blood from the veins. 
Then the whole thing recurs. The result is that the blood 
is sent out in a series of jerks, which can be felt as the " pulse " 
in any artery which comes near the surface of the body and 
rests on bone. In the capillaries, the friction between the 
blood and their walls is great, and so the jerking nature of 
the flow disappears and the blood enters the veins in a steady 
stream. 

The return to the heart is very considerably helped (i) by 
Respiration ; (2) by Muscular Contraction and the presence of 
valves which prevent backward flow in the veins. 

1. Respiration means that on breathing out, the pressure 
of the air in the lungs becomes less than the external atmo- 
pheric pressure, and this means a suction of blood towards the 
lungs, and hence also towards the heart. Obviously, holding 
the breath, which children are very given to doing whilst 
making an effort to perform some action which seems tq 
them difficult, will retard the return of blood to the heart, 
so producing a state of congestion in the blood-vessels, and 
interfering with the circulation as evidenced by the swelling 
of the veins in the face and neck. The heart makes violent 
efforts to restore the circulation, and strain and weakening 
may result. Hence one must always see that this does not 
happen, and it is doubtful if one should ever do breathing 
exercises to numbers, since every individual has a natural 
breathing-period and this differs iij different people. 

2. When the muscles are contracting, they squeeze the 
.blood in them onwards ; when at rest, there is no such 



THE CIRCULATORY SYSTEM 41 

squeeze and so the flow of blood is less vigorous and the 
whole body suffers from prolonged rest of this sort ; e.g. one 
is more likely to faint when standing still than when walking. 
Varicose veins arise from long standing rather than long 
walking. 

Changes in the Blood during Circulation. During its 
journey round the body, the blood gives up oxygen and food 
to the tissues and absorbs more food from the stomach and 
intestines. It carries carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) and other waste 
stuff to the lungs, kidneys and skin, which excrete them, and 
it loses its bright red tint and becomes more wine-coloured. 
In this state it is pumped into the lungs, where it not only 
gives up carbon dioxide and water, but becomes re-charged 
with oxygen, thus regaining its bright red tint. It is then 
taken back to the heart, to begin its journey round the body 
again. Hence its functions are probably the most important 
in the whole body, and if the blood is wrong the whole body, 
including the Nervous System, suffers. The heart-beat 
itself depends on the contractile power of the heart -muscles, 
and this depends on the quality and amount of the blood in 
them, and so the blood controls that most vital action, the 
heart -beat. 

Necessities for Good Blood. The chief needs are (i) 
good food and digestion ; (2) fresh air and right breathing, 
and (3) exercise, of the massive type. 

The heart is stimulated to greater activity by physical 
exercises and its muscle gets larger, firmer, capable of stronger 
contraction and more resistant to fatigue, as long as the 
activity does not lead to heart -fatigue or exhaustion. Long- 
continued or violent physical exercise may strain the heart 
and permanent weakness may follow, especially if exercise 
be taken in sudden, violent spurts, e.g. a holiday spent in 
mountain-climbing after a year's sedentary life. 

Running is especially valuable as a heart -exercise, but one 
must remember two things : (i) to give it in short spells, 
broken by periods of walking ; (2) that a sudden stop after 
running is bad because it is likely to produce temporary heart- 
failure owing to sudden muscular relaxation replacing the 
contraction which has hitherto been helping the blood along. 



42 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

Symptoms of Abnormality hi Blood or Heart-action. 

These include extreme pallor, specially of gums, lips or inside 
of the eyelids ; low vitality ; irritability ; headache ; giddiness ; 
faintness ; disinclination to play and breathlessness on 
exertion ; emaciation ; coldness of hands and feet ; blueness 
of nose, ears, 'finger-tips. 

It is very important that the attention of parents should 
be drawn to such children. " Go slow " is the rule for them, 
in work, play and food. 

Anaemia. Lack of red corpuscles, or not enough haemoglo- 
bin in them is the cause of anaemia, which is pretty common 
amongst girls, specially at the age of thirteen to fourteen. 
The symptoms are pallor, languor physically and mentally, 
headaches, fainting, palpitation, breathlessness, bad or 
abnormal appetite. 

Doctors usually pull down the lower eyelid or lip, as the 
inside of these is characteristically colourless in anaemia. 

As regards treatment ; a little iron often has excellent 
results. Good food, fresh air and exercise are the other 
necessities. 

Fainting is a form of unconsciousness due to lack of blood- 
supply to the brain, and this shortage in its turn is caused 
by failure of the heart -action. This may result from lack of 
blood in the heart, and may be due to bleeding or to a 
sudden shock of emotion such as joy, sorrow or fright. Also 
failure of action may be due to heart-disease, or to blood of 
poor quality. 

If the faint is due to loss of blood it is best not to try to 
restore consciousness, and on no account should any clot be 
removed. If it is due to other causes and the preliminary 
symptoms are noticed in time, it is best to get the patient 
to stoop, or place the head between the knees, so as to send 
a rush of blood to the brain. If unconsciousness has set in, 
the patient should if possible be left lying flat in the place 
where he has fainted, whilst tight clothes are loosened, 
windows opened and onlookers dispersed. Raising the legs 
helps to send blood towards the brain. If the patient has 
to be moved from the place in which he has fainted, he should 
be carried out in a horizontal position, so that as little strain 



THE CIRCULATORY SYSTEM 43 

as possible is put on the heart. On recovering consciousness 
he can be given a stimulant, unless the faint is due to loss of 
blocd. 

The Lymphatic System. The food and oxygen in the 
. blood osmoses (diffuses) out through the thin walls of the 
capillaries along with some of the white corpuscles and 
plasma, and this fluid is called lymph. It passes into tiny 
spaces lying between the cells of the tissues, so that any 
tissue can be looked on as a sponge of cells with lymph soaked 
up between. From these spaces branch tiny vessels, the 
beginnings of lymph-vessels, which gradually run one into the 
other till finally they end in two main vessels : 

(a) The thoracic duct running up the body, in front of the 
backbone (rather to the left) and opening into the left jugular 
vein in the neck. 

(b) The right lymphatic duct, which is smaller, because it 
only collects lymph from the right arm and the right side of 
the head and neck, and which opens into the right jugular 
vein, (a) Takes all the rest of the lymph. 

Glands. At intervals on the lymph-vessels occur bead-like 
swellings called lymphatic glands, containing numerous white 
corpuscles, this being one of the places where white corpuscles 
are manufactured, and passed into the blood with the lymph. 

Work* of Lymph and Lymphatic Glands. The cells are 
supplied with food and oxygen by the lymph, and they pass 
out excretory matter into it, and this is carried on to the 
veins and so to the excretory organs. Obviously then, if the 
tissues are to be properly nourished, the lymph must be 
kept actively moving, and this flow, like that of the blood in 
the veins, is brought about by muscular contraction, the 
presence of valves in the vessels, and by expiration. Hence 
again the need for exercise, and Dr. Kerr recommends running, 
jumping or dancing for two or three minutes at a time, at 
least six times a day. 

The glands not only supply white corpuscles to the blood, 
but act as filters to the lymph which flows through them, 
because they devour foreign solid matter in it, such as germs, 
provided these be not too many. If they are too many, the 
process is reversed, i.e. the germs devour the white corpuscles 



44 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

in the gland, producing inflammation and pus (dead white 
corpuscles) which may break out to the surface, forming what 
we call an abscess. Hence the glands often enlarge, e.g. : 

1. Certain infectious conditions, such as sore throat, 
scarlet fever, diphtheria and German Measles often enlarge 
the neck glands. 

2. The Occipital glands behind the ear are often enlarged 
owing to vermin, and consequent scratching and introduction 
of poison. 

3. The Arm-pit glands are often enlarged from a cut on 
the finger. 

4. The Groin glands are often enlarged from a wound on 
the foot. 

5. The Neck glands are specially susceptible to tubercle 
(scrofula) and therefore the teacher must suspect swollen 
neck-glands, though they may be due to poison from the 
mouth (teeth) or throat. Parents should be warned against 
rubbing such lumps with ointment or embrocation, as friction 
is specially likely to lead to the formation of abscesses. Also, 
parents are apt to call any lumps in the neck, due to enlarged 
lymphatic glands, " Mumps." Mumps, however, is due to 
inflammation of the Salivary glands, and the swelling is 
generally slightly higher up and starts on the side of the face, 
just in front of the lower part of the ear. (See p. 189.) 






CHAPTER V 
THE RESPIRATORY SYSTEM 

Purpose of respiration Effect on air of room Effect of bad air on the 
body Tests .for air Ventilation and heating Desirability of 
radiant heat Natural and artificial ventilation Pavilion schools 
Mechanism of breathing and voice-production Types of breath- 
ing Nervous control of breathing Breathlessness Mouth- 
breathing Adenoids and enlarged tonsils Physical exercise and 
respiration. 

The Purpose of Respiration is the exchange of carbon 
dioxide for oxygen, the excretion also of some water and the 
loss of some heat. 

The Effect of Respiration on the Air of a Room. At 

every breath we take in about 30 cubic inches of air (about 
three-quarters of a pint), i.e. only one-twelfth of the total air in 
the lungs is changed. In deep breathing 250 cubic inches can 
be changed. " Lazy respiration," which is a habit with some 
people, may mean only 5 per cent of the air changed. The 
remaining 100 cubic inches is called " residual air." The air 
breathed out has about 4|- per cent less Oxygen, 4j per cent 
more Carbon Dioxide, is saturated with water-vapour, is 
warmed (98.4 F.), and is freer from dust and germs, but has 
rather more organic matter. In coughing, singing, or any 
forced expiration we get particles of saliva, mucus, etc., 
ejected, containing many of the germs present in the respira- 
tory tract, hence the desirability of consumptives coughing 
into a handkerchief, and of other people not getting too close 
during the cough. 

The Effects of Breathing Foul Air for a short time are 
languor, mental dulness, sleepiness, yawning, headache, 
faintness, nausea or even sickness. If continued day after 
day serious and lasting results follow : loss of tone and 

45 



46 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

vitality, poor appetite and digestion, greater liability to 
infectious disease, especially those of throat and lungs, e.g. 
consumption, anaemia, bad complexion, eruptions, etc. It 
also favours rickets in babies. 

Cause of these ill-effects. At one time these were ascribed 
to (i) lack of Oxygen, but stuffy air rarely contains less than 
20 per cent and the amount in fresh air is 20-9 per cent, and 
this decrease has practically no effect on the body. It is a 
trifle compared with the reduction at high altitudes, many of 
which are health resorts, e.g. Davos Platz in Switzerland, 
where the barometer stands at 62 instead of 76 cm. of mercury. 

2. Then the ill-effects were ascribed to the excess of Carbon 
Dioxide, but this idea was abandoned because extreme 
crowding never gives more than 0-7 per cent Carbon Dioxide, 
and people exposed to twice that amount do not show any 
bad results, provided the air be kept in motion slightly, and 
temperature and moisture be not too high. 

So the old methods of testing the air of a room by measuring 
the amount of Carbon Dioxide have mostly been given up. 

3. Then it was supposed that the organic matter expired 
produced the ill-effects, but experiments on lower animals 
prove that this has no effect. 

4. It has been proved experimentally by Fliigge that the 
factors which do produce the ill-effects of living in badly 
ventilated rooms are the physical properties, not the chemical 
properties of the air, and the three that matter are : (a) 
Temperature ; (b) Moisture ; (c) Movement. If temperature 
or moisture be too high we get all the ill-effects already 
mentioned, but these are less if the air be in motion. Further, 
these factors affect us through our skins and not through the 
lungs. To demonstrate this, Fliigge used an air-chamber 
full of vitiated air. In this was placed the person to be 
experimented on, with his head in the outside fresh air. 
In consequence, he suffered all the usual ill-effects of living 
in stuffy rooms, but when his head was in the chamber and 
his body in fresh air he felt quite well. The bracing effect of 
mountain and sea air is largely due to uninterrupted move- 
ment. 

Hence, the question arises as to how these physical con- 



THE RESPIRATORY SYSTEM 47 

ditions affect the body, and the answer is that they cause 
heat -retention, one of the surest ways of upsetting any 
organism. How do they cause heat -retention ? The answer 
needs some knowledge of how the body gets rid of its super- 
fluous heat. It does this mainly through the skin (five-sixths 
or more of the heat lost escapes via the skin), by the two 
processes of (a) heating the layer of air next the skin ; (b) 
evaporating the perspiration. This needs latent heat, which 
is absorbed from the skin. Now at once one sees why air that 
is too hot or too moist causes heat -retention ; if too hot there 
is too little diffc rence between skin and air temperatures, and 
therefore (a) is reduced ; if the air is too damp, very little 
perspiration can evaporate into it, none at all if the air be 
saturated. Obviously, also, movement of the air will increase 
evaporation and heating by conduction and convection, 
because it means constant supply of fresh layers of air next 
the skin. 

Tests for Vitiated Air. The best is the Wet and Dry 
Bulb Hygrometer (Mason's). 

Limits for Dry-bulb temperature = 56-6o F. 
Wet-bulb = 53-56 F. 

There should never be less than four degrees or more than 
eight degrees difference between the Wet and Dry readings. 
One of these instruments should be in every class-room. 

The smell of a stuffy room is not a reliable test, as it is 
entirely due to lack of cleanliness in the occupants. Many 
quite clean people can be shut up in a room without producing 
any smell. 

Ventilation. It follows from what we have said that the 
problem of ventilation is to change the air of a room suffi- 
ciently often to stop it from getting too hot or too moist, 
and therefore the problem is intimately connected with that of 
heating. One should heat the body without heating the air, 
and the only way of doing this is to use radiant heat, and this, 
as a practical problem, is still unsolved for schoolrooms, 
though one can manage it for living rooms. 

i. An ordinary coal fire heats by radiation, though nine- 
tenths of the heat goes up the chimney, so that it is hardly 



48 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

economical. Also it sends a great deal of air up the chimney, 
and it is dusty. 

2. Gas fires are now made which give fifty per cent radiant 
heat. They must be properly flued, and have as little iron- 
work connected with them as possible, as this gets hot and 
then heats the air. A gas fire of modern make draws much 
less air out of the room than does a coal fire, and much less 
heat is wasted. The old type was abominable, with lots of 
ornamental iron casing and often the gas did not strike the 
fuel at the right place and so Carbon Monoxide was formed 
instead of Carbon Dioxide ; hence headaches and various 
sensations of illness. Water in front of a gas fire is quite 
unnecessary as long as the fire is not too hot. It is quite 
usual for people to turn on the gas full and get the room up 
to 80 F. If used properly it dries air no more than coal. 

3. Electric radiators. 

The so-called hot -water " radiators " found in school are 
misnamed* They ought to be called Connectors, because they 
heat the air in contact with them ; this expands, therefore 
rises, and colder air flows towards the radiator to take the 
place of what has risen, and so gradually all the air gets hot, 
which is just what one wants to avoid. It is possible, how- 
ever, that in the future electric radiators may be more used 
these being true " radiators " and using no air. 

Methods of Ventilating Class-rooms. 

The two main methods are known as the Natural and the 
Artificial Methods. 

A few years ago, Artificial methods were very fashionable, 
largely owing to the fashion of building central-hall schools, 
which are almost impossible to ventilate naturally. The 
result was that sanitary engineers hit on the ideas of pumping 
in air which had previously been warmed, filtered of dust and 
damped, or of sucking out the air, so decreasing the pressure 
and making air flow in wherever there was an opening for it. 
The first of these methods is the Plenum or Propulsion System. 
The second of these methods is the Vacuum or Extraction 
system. Nowadays these mechanical systems are out-of- 
fashion with everyone who is sensible, but they remain 






THE RESPIRATORY SYSTEM 



49 



Inlet 



installed in many of our big schools owing to the cost and 
difficulty of replacing them with natural ventilation, this 
again being due to the central-hall pattern of constiuction. 
Hence it is necessary to describe and discuss them briefly. 

The Plenum system has, in the basement 
of the building, a fan, driven by electricity 
s or steam, which sucks in air through an inlet 
which should preferably open high up above 
the ground, the air being purer near the roof 
than at street-level. Also, there is a screen 
of jute or canvas, kept wet by water trickling 
over it, and through this the air is forced by 
the fan and thus filtered of dust and damped. 



various 




rooms 



Fig. 26. Diagram of mechanism in Plenum ventilation 

It then passes over coils of hot pipes and so is warmed, 
and then led, by shafts, into each room, entering high up on 
one wall, sweeping round the room, and leaving by an opening 




Inlet 



Outlet 



Fig. 27. 



Diagram of air-current in room ventilated 
on Plenum system 



50 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

low down on the same wall. The exit opens into a shaft 
which runs up into the open air. 

The warmed, damped, purified air sweeps out the air in 
the room in front of it, and it is possible, by this method, to 
keep the air of a room chemically and physically perfect, and 
yet, granting that the system is working to perfection, which 
in practice is rarely true, there are very marked disadvantages : 

1. The noise of the engine and fan, worse in some rooms than 
others, and exhausting to nerves of both teacher and children. 

2. Windows must be kept shut ; in some schools they are 
made not to open, and this is a bad object lesson to children, 
who are taught in Hygiene lessons, etc., that windows should 
be open. Further, if the machinery breaks down, the school 
is unusable. 

3. An almost inexplicable enervating effect, probably due 
to the dead physical level of the air, i.e. the constancy of 
temperature and humidity, this being felt through the skin. 
In a naturally ventilated room there are constant little 
draughts of air of different temperatures, and these, striking 
the skin, have a tonic effect. Compare the tonic effect of a 
cold bath. 

4. The heating of air is bad, since heat is one of the factois 
producing the' ill-effects of living in stuffy rooms, as already 
explained. Of course in summer this objection does not 
apply, and heating might be discontinued altogether, but 
that would mean extra radiators, since at the time when 
artificial ventilation was fashionable, one of the arguments 
for it was that it largely supplied the warming of the school, 
as well as the ventilation. 

Vacuum System. Here each room has a duct opening into 
a central shaft in which a current of ascending air is created, 
either by a fan at the top, or a fire at the bottom. The result 
is that air is sucked out of the rooms, and fresh air flows in 
to take its place, entering wherever it can, e.g. by doors, 
windows, gratings, etc., and so at once we get one objection, 
viz. that one cannot control the air-supply, therefore clean it, 
etc., as one can in the Plenum system. Again, the fan may 
be noisy. Another objection is that the inlets are necessarily 
low down, and therefore tend to cause cold feet, one of the 



THE RESPIRATORY SYSTEM 51 

predisposing factors to various chest-troubles, since cold 
feet produce inflammation of the mucous membrane of the 
nose, and hence liability to " cold in the head/' leading on to 
coughs, etc. This method is used in the House of Commons 
and possibly accounts for the cold feet and hot heads of 
many of the members. 

Natural Ventilation. This means ventilation depending 
on three natural phenomena, viz. : 

1. Diffusion of gases. 

2. Wind action. 

3. Convection, set up by differences of temperature. 

1. Of these, Diffusion is not very important ; it is the 
tendency of two gases to mix when in contact, even when one 
is heavier than the other, and the heavier gas is below the 
lighter one. 

Experiment : Two gas jars, lower containing hydrochloric 
acid gas, upper containing ammonia gas. Placed mouth to 
mouth, we get white fumes formed by combination of the 
two gases to form ammonium chloride, though ammonia is 
lighter than hydrochloric acid gas and so would remain on 
top if it were not for diffusion. 

Application. If doors or windows be open, we do get 
some mixing of inside with outside air, even apart from wind, 
differences of temperature, etc. 

2. Wind is more important, though irregular in action. 
Wind acts in two ways, by Perflation and Aspiration. Per- 
flation means the sweeping of air through a room in which 
doors and windows are open, with the result that foul air is 
driven out. It is a method that should be systematically 
employed in pla3'time, but in our climate is often impossible 
while a class is in the room. 

Aspiration is the suction-action which wind exerts when 
blowing transversely across an opening such as a chimney. 

3. Convection means the flow of currents of hot air up 
and cold air down, and depends on the fact that heat decreases 
density, i.e. hot air is lighter, volume for volume, than cold air. 

The necessities in a naturally ventilated building are a 
sufficiency of inlets for fresh air and of outlets for used-up 
Inlets should be many and low down. Outlets should 




THE RESPIRATORY SYSTEM 



53 



be fewer and high up. School windows should be made to 
open much more than they do. One sees endless schools with 
plenty of window, but only a tiny fraction of it opens. All 
windows should be made so that they can be easily opened 
by the children themselves. The ideal school building must 
have open air on opposite sides of each class-room, and there 
must be windows opening on these two opposite sides, so that 
one can get a really thorough current of fresh air through the 
room, and this practically requires the Pavilion (or Stafford- 
shire) type of school. Here the building consists of a row of 
class-rooms opening on to a veranda, in the way shown in the 
diagram. Each room has sash and hopper windows on the 
veranda side and on the opposite side. One hall serves all 
three departments, or in some of the recent schools, one hall 
serves boys and girls, and the infants have one of their own. 
Besides the excellence of ventilation, the Pavilion type is 
cheaper to build, and noise does not travel from hall to 
class-room, or vice versa, in the way it does in the central- 
hall type. 

But, in any natural system of ventilation, much depends 
on thje teacher. A teacher with what Dr. Crowley calls a 
dormant sanitary conscience can. render the best natural 
system inefficient, simply by keeping the windows shut. 

Aids to Natural Ventilation. These are simply extra 
inlets or outlets made where windows and chimneys are 



Air 



Tobin 
tube 



Air 



Sheringham 
Valve 




Fig 1 . 29. Aids to natural ventilation 



54 



A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 



insufficient to provide the needful air. The commoner 
include Tobin's tubes, Sheringham valves, gratings behind 



Ceiling 



a 

/A x 






Fig 1 . 30. McKinnell's ventilator 

radiators, and various types of roof-ventilators, such as 
McKinnell's double-tube arrangement, acting as both inlet 
and outlet. 

Mechanism of Respiration. The machinery consists of 
mouth, nose, windpipe, bronchial tubes and lungs. 

Of these, the mouth is only legitimately used after or 
during violent exercise, such as running. The mouth and 
nasal cavities both open, at the back, into a short, wide tube 
(the pharynx), which very soon splits into two, the windpipe 
in front and the gullet behind. The windpipe is about four 
and a half inches long, and has a swollen top, the larynx, in 
which " voice " is produced. This forms the projection in the 
front of the throat known as " Adam's apple, 1 ' a good deal 
more prominent in men than in women. The larynx has a 
lid, called the epiglottis, which can move up and down, so 
opening or closing the windpipe. / It opens during breathing 
and closes during swallowing, and if one attempts the two 
simultaneously, the result is that food enters the windpipe 
and one "chokes," coughs, etc. The walls of larynx and 
windpipe are built of cartilage. Acrcss the larynx chamber 
stretch the " vocal cords," two horizontal pieces of membrane, 
attached to .the walls of larynx except at two free edges, 
between which is a slit (the glottis). 

The size of this slit varies in quiet breathing, deep-breathing, 
singing, etc., this variation being due to the fact that the 



THE RESPIRATORY SYSTEM 




Fig 31. The mouth, nose, windpipe and gullet seen m section 

(From Gray's Anatomy. Longmans, Green and Co.) 



56 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

cords can be tightened up or relaxed by the action of small 
muscles attached to the cartilage of the larynx-wall. When 
these muscles contract, the cords are stretched tighter and 
the glottis narrows, as in diagram. 




In deep breathing. In quiet breathing. In singing a high note, 

Fig-. 32. Section across larynx (diagrammatic) 

Voice -production. The air breathed out from the lungs 
strikes against the vocal cords, and if these be tightly enough 
stretched, they are set vibrating by the impact and so produce 
sound, just as a piano wire does when struck, or a violin wire 
when bowed. 

The pitch of the note produced depends on two factors : 

1. The tension of the cords. 

2. The length of the cords. 

The greater the tension the higher the note. The longer the 
cord the lower the note. Hence it needs less muscular effort 
to speak on a note of low pitch, and I would commend this 
fact to the notice of all women teachers, for various reasons : 

1. Women frequently suffer from loss of voice, a most 
troublesome condition, and one which can often be avoided 
by right use of the voice. 

2. In giving drill-commands, etc., women tend to let the 
pitch of their voices rise unduly, so producing an irritating 
effect on the hearers and unnecessarily straining their own 
muscles ; and again, a high note " carries " less well than a 
low one of equal loudness. 

The question of length of cord explains why a man's voice 
is deeper than a woman's. The " breaking " of a boy's voice 
is due to the sudden lengthening of the cords, and, for the 
year or two during which the growth is proceeding, singing is 
impossible, and all undue strain on the vocal cords should be 



THE RESPIRATORY SYSTEM 



57 



avoided, since, in common with all rapidly growing organs, 
they are very liable to permanent damage if overstrained. 

The question of loudness is of course different from that 
of pitch. Loudness depends on the force of the blast of 
air. 

To return to the structure of the Respiratory machinery 



^ Larynx 

Windpipe 




Bronchus 
Rib 



Walls of 
Pleura 



Fluid 



Fig 1 . 33. Diagrammatic section through chest 
(Heart not shown) 

the windpipe branches at its lower end into two bronchi, one 
going to each lung. In the lung each splits up repeatedly 
into finer and finer branches, which eventually end in tiny 
air-sacs, giving the whole lung a spongy texture. In the walls 
of the air-sacs are many capillary blood-vessels. The two 




Fig. 34. End of a bronchial 
tube (diagrammatic) 



58 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

lungs, together with the heart, fill the whole of the thorax, or 
chest. Each lung is contained in a double-walled bag, the 
pleura, resembling the pericardium of the heart in that 
between its walls is secreted a lubricating fluid which permits 
of the movement of the lungs without friction against the 
walls of the chest. 

Pleurisy is inflammation of the pleura, brought on by 
chill, and resulting in over-production of the lubricating 
fluid, with the result that the heart is compressed, breathing 
and beating of the heart are both interfered with, and it is 
sometimes necessary to puncture the outer wall of the pleura 
to let the fluid escape. 

Interchange of Gases between Lung and Atmos- 
phere. This is a matter of the relative pressures of the gases 
concerned; e.g. the Oxygen in the air has greater pressure 
than the Oxygen in the blood and therefore passes into the 
plasma, through the thin wall of the capillary, and hence 
to the haemoglobin. Conversely, Carbon Dioxide in the 
blood has greater pressure than Carbon Dioxide in the air- 
sac and therefore comes out into the air-sac. Obviously, 
the exchange depends on (i) the circulation and quality 
of blood in the lungs and (2) the frequency and depth of 
breathing. 

Working of the Machinery. This is purely the result of 
muscular contraction and expansion in the walls of the 
chest. The muscles connecting the ribs contract, thus 
making each rib rise, in the way that the handle of a bucket 
does when it is resting on the rim of the bucket and you take 
hold of it. The effect is that the chest increases in width. 
Further, the muscles of the diaphragm contract, and so pull 
it flatter, and therefore the chest increases in depth ; i.e. 
the volume of the chest cavity increases ; therefore the 
pressure of air in the cavity decreases below atmospheric 
pressure. (Boyle's Law.) Therefore air rushes in from the 
outside till the pressures inside and out are equalised. In 
Expiration the muscles relax and therefore the ribs fall, the 
diaphragm arches up again, and so the volume of the chest 
cavity decreases. Therefore the pressure of air in the chest 
cavity increases above atmospheric pressure. (Boyle's Law.) 



THE RESPIRATORY SYSTEM 59 

Therefore air rushes out, till pressures inside and out are 
equal. 

A simple experiment to illustrate this can easily be fitted 
up thus : 

Take a glass bell-jar, open at top and bottom, and tie over 
the bottom a sheet of thin rubber (that sold as " patching 




Balloon 



Rubber 
Fig"- 35- Dotted line represents rubber pushed up 

rubber "), leaving enough slack to take hold of. Into the 
neck fit a on?e-holed cork with a short piece of glass tube, to 
the lower end of which is attached a child's toy-balloon. 

On pulling the rubber down the balloon inflates, because 
the volume of the jar is increased and so air rushes into the 
balloon from outside. On pushing the rubber up, the balloon 
collapses, because the volume of the jar is decreased, and so 
air is forced out of the balloon. The rubber represents the 
diaphragm, the bell-jar represents the chest -wall, the glass 
tube represents the windpipe, and the balloon represents the 
lungs. Obviously here the weak point, is the rigidity of the 
bell -jar, which therefore is not a very good representation of 
the ribs. 

Cilia. The lining of the windpipe and bronchial tubes 
consists of cells from which arise fine threads called cilia 
(L. cilium = eyelash) which are continually in motion in 
jerks towards the mouth, and so sweep up dust, etc., which 
may get into the tubes. 



60 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

Types of Respiration. 

Generally respiration is a mixture of two types : thoracic 
and abdominal, though the proportion between the two 
varies : e.g. men in ordinary breathing use chiefly the lower 
part of the chest (inferior costal type), while women chiefly use 
the upper ribs (superior costal type) ; in children up to seven 
the breathing is largely abdominal or diaphragmmatic. Both 
types need developing, because they are complementary. 

In children the chest -walls are much more elastic than in 
adults, a point of importance in regard to chest-expansion 
and breathing exercises, which are therefore of great value in 
correcting flat and narrow chest. 

Rate varies with age as follows : 

Adult breathes 15-18 times per minute. 
At 12 20 

At 6 22 

At birth ,, 44 ,, ,, ,, 

Quick, shallow breathing in a child usually means pain due 
to pleurisy, bronchitis, stomach or liver trouble. Anaemia 
also involves quicker respiration, owing to the effort to get 
more Oxygen into the blood. Fever always involves quicker 
respiration, in the effort to get rid of excess Carbon Dioxide 
in the blood. 

Nervous Control of Respiration. Breathing is governed 
by a nerve-centre in the medulla (top of spinal cord), and of 
all the centres governing vital processes this is the only one 
which is partly under the control of the will, i.e. we can 
" hold the breath " for a certain time. It also follows that 
Respiration is open to many influences from all parts of the 
Nervous System, e.g. emotion, pain, sudden application of 
cold to the skin. The respiratory centre has a special excita- 
bility for Carbon Dioxide and the force of our respiration is 
entirely due to the Carbon Dioxide in the blood. Breath- 
lessness 1 means a convulsive attempt to deepen and quicken 
breathing, owing to much Carbon Dioxide in the blood. 
Hence respiration adapts itself to the state of rest or action 
of the body. 

1 See Welpton's Physical Education for further discussion. 



THE RESPIRATORY SYSTEM 61 

Breathlessness is a sign that the limit of adaptability has 
been reached, and the respiratory mechanism is being strained 
beyond its capacity in trying to oxygenate the blood and 
remove Carbon Dioxide with sufficient rapidity to meet the 
demands of the body. Breathlessness, if easily produced, is 
a sign either of poor heart, lungs or blood (anaemic). Rest 
should be taken or serious injury may follow. 

Mouth Breathing and Nasal Breathing. All ordinary 
breathing should take place through the nose, which is 
specially fitted to prepare the air for entrance to the lungs. 
The walls of the nasal cavity are warm, damp, and lined 
with hairs which filter out dust, insects, etc. The secretion 
in the nose (mucus) is a disinfectant, and so destroys germs. 
Hence air entering by the nose, goes down into the lungs 
warm, damp and filtered of dirt and germs. On the other 
hand, if taken in via the mouth, it enters dry, cold and 
dirty and therefore irritates the throat, bronchial tubes and 
lungs and renders the mouth-breather liable to chronic 
sore-throat, enlarged tonsils, bronchitis, consumption, decayed 
teeth, and the ills resulting from them, to diphtheria, scarlet 
fever, etc., and to deafness, due to spread of inflammation 
up the Eustachian tubes' to the middle ear. Hence a 
teacher observing a mouth-breather in school should do 
his or her best to stop the habit, if it be a habit only, 
by constant correction and by breathing exercises. On the 
other hand, it may be due to actual obstruction in nose 
or throat, the remedy for this being removal of the ob- 
struction, and then breathing exercises, to teach the right 
method of breathing. The commonest obstructions are 
Adenoids and Enlarged Tonsils, and Dr. Kerr estimates that 
anything up to ten per cent of children entering school show 
some degree of adenoid growth or enlargement of tonsils, 
though certainly not more than five per cent need operation. 
Every teacher therefore needs to know the symptoms of these 
growths : 

The adenoid tissue is situated at the back of the pharynx, 
close to the openings of the tubes leading from throat to 
middle ear (Eustachian tubes). The tonsils are two soft 
fleshy protuberances, one on each side of the pharynx. (See 



62 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

Fig. 31.) If over-growth of adenoid-tissue or tonsils occur, 
the opening of the nose into the pharynx is largely closed, and 

(a) Therefore, mouth breathing follows, with all its attendant 
ills. 

(b) This gives a vacant look to the face, and causes 

(c) The lower eyelid to rise too iar over the eyeball, giving 
the so-called " veiled-look " to the eyes. 

(d) The deafness, which is one of the most serious results, 
makes the child " spuriously mentally defective," or at 
least dull and backward, and entails serious educational 
loss. 

(e) The nose, not being used, does not develop properly, 
the nostrils being pinched and the bridge defective. 

The teacher should present any child showing these symp- 
toms to the school doctor, and if he recommends operation 
should do his or her best to see that the parents follow the 
doctor's advice. 

Physical Exercise and Respiration. The lungs can be 
enlarged and made more capable of work by suitable exercise. 
" In ordinary breathing the whole of the air-cells are not 
used and even those used are not expanded fully. Full 
expansion only occurs during extraordinary breathing, when 
the lur gs are filled to their utmost capacity by the full action 
of the diaphragm and the muscles of the chest and shoulders/' 
and it is by practising this kind of breathing that chest 
capacity is increased. Occasional deep breathing is of very 
little use, for the muscles and bones of the chest -wall can only 
be moulded by regular and constantly applied pressure. 
The best age for developing chest capacity is while growth 
is still going on, because muscles and bones are both most 
pliable then. Deep-breathing exercises " should aim at expand- 
ing the lower part of chest where the cross-section is greatest." 
They should therefore^chiefly exercise the diaphragm and the 
muscles of the lower ribs. Further, they teach nose-breathing. 
Other exercises, less formal, and involving control of breath, 
should quickly follow, e.g. singing, reciting, walking, running, 
jumping. In all these the lungs should be filled to the utmost 
and expiration controlled so that words can be sung steadily, 
brcathlessness not induced, and so on. 



THE RESPIRATORY SYSTEM 63 

Posture in Connection with Breathing. Posture should 
be such as allows free action of chest and diaphragm. Stoop- 
ing is therefore bad and so exercises which counteract this 
are excellent, and correct postures must be insisted on in 
school. 

Games in Connection with Breathing. The more vio- 
lent the exercise, the more stimulated the lungs. Therefore 
running, jumping, skipping, wrestling, football, etc., are all 
good, if regular, and if the natural tendency for breathing to 
become shallow and rapid be resisted. Hence children 
should be shown how to take in breath and how to control 
its expiration when engaged in violent exercise. Inspiration 
should be deep, full, slow. Expiration should be gradual. 1 

1 For fuller discussion see Welpton's Physical Education. 



CHAPTER VI 

THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM AND FOOD 

General structure Development and care of teeth Food (uses, 
classes, digestion) -Constipation Dangers of too much or too 
little food, and of tainted, diseased, or adulterated food Beverages 
(water, tea, coffee, cocoa, milk). 

The Digestive System consists of a tube (called the 
alimentary canal), about twenty-eight feet long, with various 
enlargements on it, and with various glands opening into it. 
It runs from the mouth to the anus, and we will take its chief 
divisions with some detail. 

The Mouth is bounded at the top by a bone called the 
hard palate, which is continued backwards into the soft 
palate, formed of muscle covered with mucous membrane, and 
its back is prolonged into a pink blob, the uvula. (See Fig. 
31.) Deformity of the hard palate is one of the " physical 
stigmata " sometimes accompanying mental defect. It may 
take the form of very narrow arched palate, or of cleft palate 
due to failure of the two halves of the soft and sometimes of 
the hard palate to unite before birth. If the condition 
extends to the lip we get hare-lip. The mouth opens into the 
pharynx, and on each side of the opening are two small soft 
masses of tissue, the tonsils, varying in size a good deal in 
different people, and nobody quite knows their use. Ap- 
parently they are not very important, for their removal does 
no harm and often much good. The tongue, growing from 
the floor of the mouth, is covered with little projections 
(papillae) in which are found the ends of the nerves of taste, 
so that the tongue is the organ of taste. It is curious, but 
taste is assisted by smell, and therefore if you hold the nose 
it is much more difficult to taste. Extremes of temperature 
more or less numb the sense of taste and therefore a good 
way of taking nasty medicine is to wash out the mouth with 
very hot or cold water, then hold the nose and swallow. 

6 4 



THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM AND FOOD 65 

Teeth. The state of the teeth has such a large effect on 
general health that it is worth while to impress the importance 
of good teeth on both children and parents. Digestion and 
nutrition largely depend on the teeth, and the results of bad 
teeth are : (i) Food is bolted in lumps which the stomach is 
unable to digest and which therefore remain too long in it, 
begin to decompose and therefore give off the gases which 
cause flatulence and pain ; further, since the food is not 
absorbed into the blood the nutrition suffers, and we get 

iNAMEL 
E.NTINE 
PULP CAVITY 




Fig. 36. A longitudinal section of a tooth 

(From Pitts' Care of the Teeth. Methuen) 

poor mental or physical development, or both, seriously 
damaging wage-earning capacity and reducing some to semi- 
invalidism ; (2) the pus or matter formed in the tooth is 
swallowed and sets up slow blood-poisoning hence head- 
ache, blotchy skin, etc. ; (3) the pus makes the breath smell 
unpleasant ; (4) bad teeth disfigure their owner ; (5) bad 
teeth cause a good deal of bad school-attendance ; (6) the 
constant irritation of decayed teeth often sets up enlarged 
lymphatic glands, tonsils and tonsilitis, and the unhealthy 



66 



A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 



tonsil is probably the gate through which rheumatism 
enters. 

Prevalence of Defects in Teeth. Various observers give 
numbers from eighty-five to ninety-five per cent of school 
children, and the thing seems getting worse, probably owing 
to the soft prepared foods of which we eat so much nowadays. 
The School Dentists' Society estimates that ninety per cent 
London children under six years and ninety-five per cent 
under ten years have decayed teeth. One hundred years ago 
teeth were much better, and skulls of Ancient Britons, 
Normans, etc., rarely show decayed teeth. 




Fig. 37. Upper and lower jaw showing' a complete set 
of temporary teeth 

(From Pitts' Care of the Teeth. Methuen) 

Structure of a Tooth. The tooth consists of three parts : 
(a) crown (visible), (b) root (in jaw), (c) neck (connecting (a) 
and (b) and narrower). The internal structure is shown in the 
section. The enamel, covering the crown, is a hard white 
solid, thinnest at the neck. The dentine inside is softer. The 



THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM AND FOOD 67 

pujp contains nerves and blood-vessels, entering by holes in 
the tips of the roots. 

Two Sets of Teeth. () Milk or first teeth ; (b) permanent 
or second teeth. The numbers of teeth in each set are shown 
in the diagram. In the first set we find in each jaw four 
cutting teeth (incisors) in the centre, a canine tooth on each 
side of the incisors, and two grinding teeth (molars) beyond 




Fig. 38. Upper and lower jaw of an adult showing 
a complete and perfect set of permanent teeth 

(From Pitts' Care of the Teeth. Methuen) 

each canine. In the second set we get in each jaw four 
incisors, two canines, four bicuspids and six molars. 

Development. The first teeth begin to appear about five 
months before birth, and at birth all are present in the jaw, 
though as a rule none are visible. (Occasionally a baby is 
born with one or two of the front teeth visible, e.g. Richard III 
and Louis XIV.) Further, at birth, all the second set are 
present in the jaw, below the first set. The first teeth appear 



68 



A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 



usually about seven months old, viz. lower incisors. Then 
come the upper incisors, then the front molars, then the 
canines, then the back molars, and the set should be complete 
at two years. At about six years, the first teeth begin to 
come out, being replaced by the permanent set, and this 
should be complete, except for the " wisdom teeth," at 




Fig". 39- Upper and lower jaw of a child of six years. 
The temporary teeth are all present. The first permanent 
molars have commenced to erupt. The permanent teeth which 
succeed the temporary teeth are being formed underneath 
the latter 

(From Pitts' Care of the Teeth. Methuen) 

twelve years. The wisdom teeth may not appear till thirty 
years old. They are the four last molars. 

The quality of the teeth is dependent on the general health 
of the body and varies greatly in different people. Since the 
teeth form long before birth, the mother's health before the 
child is born affects matters, as well as her health during the 



THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM AND FOOD 69 

time when she is feeding the child ; e.g. inherited syphilis* 
most active during the last three months before and first 
three months after birth, leads to " Hutchinsonian Teeth," i.e. 
upper central incisors of the permanent set, appearing about 
seven with a notch in the centre of the cutting- edge and 
with rounded edges. Again, the child's food affecf s its teeth 
from the beginning. Thus the mother's milk is conducive to 
better teeth than cow's milk or artificial foods ; these latter 
often leading to rickets, which frequently produces defective 
enamel. Again, the way in which a child sucks affects its 
teeth. If bottle-fed, the hole in the teat should not be too 
.big and the teat should be held a little away from the mouth 
so that the child has to suck hard. This brings increased 
blood-supply to the gums and hence to the teeth hidden in 
them. At six months, a baby should be given a chicken-bone 
to chew or a bit of crust or toast (not too hard) for ten minutes 
before each meal, to teach it to chew and so get a proper 
blood-supply to the gums. If it doesn't chew the teeth are 
ruined. After two years as much hard food as possible should 
be given ; e.g. a breakfast of porridge and milk is bad for the 
teeth, but it is all right if finished off with cleansing food such 
as crust or apple. One might mention here the evil effect of 
" comforters " or dummy-teats on the teeth. They develop 
the habit of mouth-breathing and this tends to produce a 
high-arched palate and crowded irregular teeth. 

Process of Decay. The actual process is due to the presence 
in the mouth of acids which dissolve the enamel, usually 
where it is thinnest, i.e. at the neck. These acids are pro- 
duced by germs, which are always present in the mouth, 
and which feed on any food left sticking to the teeth, con- 
verting it thereby into acid (malic, lactic, etc.). The enamel 
having been eaten through, the dentine dissolves faster still 
because it is softer, and soon the pulp is exposed and great 
pain ensues whenever food or cold air touches the nerve. A 
decayed tooth is a centre of contagion to other teeth. 

To Ensure Good Teeth. Some of the necessities have 
already been discussed under " development," viz. good 
health of the mother before birth, breast -feeding, proper 
sucking and chewing during babyhood. The question of food 



70 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

is always more important than that of cleaning, as illustrated 
by savages, who usually have excellent teeth, no tooth brushes 
and plenty of raw fruit, bones to gnaw, etc. Hence a meal 
should end with a bit of crust or an apple in order to remove 
sticky food which may be clinging to the teeth. Cleaning of 
teeth, however, must be insisted on, and.it should begin as 
soon as there are any teeth to clean, say at eight months, 
when the mother or nurse should wipe them (not the gums) 
with a handkerchief or cloth, and long before the child is one 
year old it should have a soft brush. With school children 
the thing to insist on is that they clean the teeth the last 
thing at night, and no last biscuit is to be given after cleaning. 
No tooth-powder is needed, but the brush should be moved 
vertically as well as horizontally. In some schools " tooth- 
brush drill " is practised. In this case one must be careful 
that the children do not use each other's brushes, since this 
might spread infection : hence the brushes should be num- 
bered and kept in a rack which prevents contact between them. 
The dentist should inspect the teeth annually, during school 
life. The first Dental Clinic in England was opened in 1906, 
in Cambridge. A good many others have been established 
since. 

Salivary Glands. These are the only other important 
structures in the mouth. There are three pairs of them : (i) 
the parotid glands, placed in the cheeks, just in front of the 
ear, (2) the sub-maxillary glands under the lower jaw-bone 
and (3) the sub-lingual glands under the tongue. They 
manufacture saliva from the blood and pour it into the 
mouth. Saliva contains a substance (ptyalin) called a ferment, 
with the power of turning starch into sugar. This ferment is 
absent in a baby's saliva for eight months, and therefore if 
a baby is given starchy food before it is eight months old it 
cannot digest it and gets ill. 

The mouth opens into the pharynx and this splits, as 
already mentioned, into two tubes, of which the back one 
is the gullet, a tube about ten inches long, opening into the 
stomach, just under the diaphragm. The stomach is a pear- 
shaped bag with the wider end on the left. Its walls contain 
transverse and longitudinal muscles which can produce 



THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM AND FOOD 71 

rotatory movement of the walls, so churning up the contents, 
and it is lined with mucous membrane, in folds and ridges, 
and opening into the furrows are the mouths of the stomach- 
glands, which pour out gastric juice. The stomach opens into 
the small intestine, a coiled-up tube, about twenty feet long, 
filling much of the abdomen, and ending in the large intestine, 
about five feet long. The walls of the intestines have muscles 
like those of the stomach, and the mucous membrane lining 



Lact-eals- 

Epilhelium- 

- Blood '/esse/s 







Fig. 40. Villi, showing lacteals, blood-vessels 
and columnar epithelium 

(From Narram ore's Preliminary Physiology. Methuen) 

is flung into finger-like projections (villi) containing capillary 
blood-vessels and lymphatics. At the beginning of the large 
intestine, on the right, is a little tube, about three inches long, 
the appendix. 

Liver and Pancreas. These are two glands, situated as 
in the diagram, which make important digestive juices, and 
pour them into the small intestine about three inches from 
the stomach. The liver juice is called bile. The pancreatic 
juice contains four ferments. 



72 



A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 




Appendix 



Stomacn 



Bladder 



Fig-. 41. Abdominal Organs 
(Adapted from Narramore's Preliminary Physiology. Methuen) 



THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM AND FOOD 73 



Food. 

(a) Functions : To supply heat and energy ; to repair 
waste ; (in children) to build new material. The elements in 
food which are most essential in order that it may perform 
these functions are Carbon and Nitrogen. Carbon, in the 
process of oxidation to Carbon Dioxide, produces heat and 
energy. Nitrogen is the great tissue-forming element. 

(b) Classes. Food is usually divided into the following 
classes : (i) Proteids or nitrogenous substances, such as meat, 
white of egg, the casein in milk and cheese, the legumen in 
peas, beans, lentils, the gluten in wheat. Since it is only from 
proteids that Nitrogen can be obtained, a certain amount of 
this class of food is absolutely necessary. No other class can 
take its place. Not all proteids, however, are equally valuable ; 
e.g. legumen can provide for wear and tear, but not for 
growth. Casein, on the other hand, is adequate to replace 
waste and for growth. Hence, particularly for children, in 
whom growth should be taking place actively, peas and 
beans are not adequate as the only source of proteid. (ii) 
Carbohydrates, containing Carbon, Hydrogen and Oxygen, 
and including sugar and starch : e.g. bread, flour, potatoes, 
rice, root -vegetables, tapioca, semolina, etc., whose function 
is the production of heat and energy, (iii) Fats, consisting of 
Carbon and Hydrogen, whose function is heat and energy- 
production, e.g. butter, lard, dripping, margarine, cream in 
milk and cheese, (iv) Mineral salts and acids the valuable 
constituent of green vegetables and fruit, and necessary for 
the blood, digestive juices and skeleton, (v) Water, present in 
most food and all beverages. Water accounts for seventy 
per cent of the body weight. 

Freshness of Food. Vitamines. A diet may contain the 
right amounts of proteid, fat and starch and yet may be a 
failure owing to lack of " vitamines." 

These are substances whose nature is not yet completely 
understood, but which are present in very small amounts in 
most raw food. They are, however, likely to be destroyed 
by cooking or removed in " manufactured " foods. They will 
stand a certain amount of boiling or heating, however, as long 
as the medium is not alkaline. Their absence causes ill- 



74 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

health, including certain definite diseases, such as scurvy, 
general neuritis (beri-beri) and possibly rickets ; at any rate 
the disease known as scurvy-rickets is caused thus. 

The remarkable effect of administering vitamines in this 
disease is illustrated by the case of a child brought into a 
hospital and apparently dying. Whilst the nurse's back was 
turned the child took some grapes belonging to the patient 
in the next bed, ate them, and when the nurse returned, was 
sitting up and smiling. 

Hence some raw food, e.g. salad, fruit, etc., should be 
eaten daily. 

When the diet is monotonous, as in the case, for example, 
of the rice-eating races, the food should not be too much 
" prepared." Thus beri-beri is caused by living on polished 
rice, i.e. rice whose outer coat has been rubbed off, and along 
with it, the vitamine. 

(c) Digestion is the conversion of food into a form in which 
it will pass through the walls of the capillaries in the stomach 
and intestines. The only food which will do this straight 
away, without alteration, is sugar ; hence sugar can be 
absorbed very quickly, and into the bargain is a useful muscle 
tonic. It is therefore a valuable food, especially for children. 
This leaves starch, fat and proteids to be altered. The 
starch is acted on by the saliva, to some extent whilst in 
the mouth. Hence the need of thorough chewing and 
mixing with saliva. One can often taste the sweetness of 
the sugar actually formed in the mouth as one chews bread 
or plain biscuit. The process of conversion into sugar is 
finished in the small intestine by one of the four ferments of 
the pancreatic juice. The fat is acted on by the bile and by 
another of the four pancreatic-juice ferments, and is emulsified, 
i.e. broken up into tiny drops which can be absorbed by the 
lymphatics of the intestine. Thus it dodges the liver, whereas 
all the food taken up directly into the capillaries goes to the 
liver, via the portal vein. The proteid is acted on first in the 
stomach by the gastric juice, which contains a ferment 
(pepsin) which converts pait of the proteid to peptone, which 
can be absorbed into the capillaries in the stomach-wall. 
Any not converted here is finished off in the intestine by a 



THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM AND FOOD 75 

third ferment of the pancreatic juice. During its passage 
through the intestine much of the water of the food is absorbed, 
so that finally only solid refuse, i.e. the part of the food which 
is indigestible, remains, and this is excreted from the large 
intestine or bowel. Movement of food is brought about by 
what is called "peristaltic action," i.e. the wave-like con- 
traction and expansion of the muscles in the walls of the 
intestines. A certain amount of food-stuff is needed to 
excite this action ; hence fairly large meals at fair intervals 
are better than frequent small quantities. The latter tend 
to constipation, a condition which needs some mention. 

Constipation, commoner in girls than boys, means the 
accumulation of waste in the intestines. Now germs are 
always present in the intestine, and if food hangs about, they 
feed on it, producing poisons which are absorbed into the 
blood, giving unhealthy complexions, headaches, lassitude, 
etc. The remedy is dieting, exercise, regular efforts to 
discharge waste from the bowel, and massage, (a) With 
regard to diet, brown bread and raw and stewed fruit are 
excellent, the cellulose, which is not digested, stimulating 
the digestive track, and the vegetable acid helping. Meat 
should not be given more than once a day to children, (b) 
Massage for five or ten minutes will often produce bowel- 
action. It must follow the direction of the large intestine, 
viz. up on the right, across and down on the left of the 
abdomen, (c) Regular efforts to discharge the contents of 
the bowel develop the habit of regular bowel-action. In this 
connection one should note the evil of the child's gulping 
down a hasty breakfast and then rushing off at once to 
school. The best and most natural time for the bowel to 
discharge is after breakfast, and there should therefore be a 
little time between the end of the meal and the child's starting 
for school. 

Dangers of too much food. These are less in the case of 
children than with adults, because children are more active 
physically than are adults and their digestion and excretion 
are correspondingly active. The chief effects of excessive 
food are : (i) Development of fat, due to some of the excess 
food being changed into this form and stored under the skin, 



76 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

etc. (2) Indigestion, owing to the excess food remaining so 
long in the stomach and intestine that it decomposes, so 
causing pain, flatulence and a general feeling of ill-health 
owing to slow blood-poisoning. (3) Excessive strain on the 
kidneys, in the case of too much nitrogenous food being eaten, 
thus probably damaging them and tending to kidney- 
disease. 

Dangers of too little food. This is very harmful if prolonged, 
and the same holds true if one of the essential classes of food 
be deficient, e.g. proteid, fat or carbohydrate, and this con- 
dition is the commoner of the two. It does not necessarily 
show itself in thinness, but some tissue is badly developed, 
e.g. bone, muscle or brain or energy and heat may be 
lacking. An underfed person is always more liable to disease 
(especially consumption) than is a well-fed individual. 

Variation in amount of food due to work and climate. The 
less the amount of work done by a person and the warmer 
the climate the less food does he need. Similarly, warm 
clothes lessen the need for food, and vice versa. 

Dangers of tainted, diseased or adulterated food. Food is 
easily and frequently rendered unfit for use owing to a variety 
of causes. For instance, bacteria may get into food handled 
by a diseased person, such as a typhoid-carrier. A good 
many outbreaks of typhoid have been traced to this cause. 
Again, flies may introduce germs into the food over which 
they crawl, and many outbreaks of infantile diarrhoea, 
typhoid, dysentery, etc., have been caused thus. Hence the 
need of a campaign against flies. Exposure of food to dust 
means inevitably exposure to bacteria, amongst which the 
tubercle bacillus is common, and hence arises the need of 
protecting food from dust both at home and in the shop and 
factory. 

The so-called ptomaine-poisoning is due to the presence 
in food of germs closely resembling the typhoid bacillus, and 
these may be found in various foods, though chiefly in meat 
in a prepared or made-up form,, such as meat-pies, brawn, 
etc. This kind of food is usually highly flavoured and often 
made from stale meat of poor quality, on dirty premises. 
The amount of poisoning from this source might be decreased 



I THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM AND FOOD 77 
if it were made illegal to prepare such foods except on premises 
open to inspection by the Sanitary Authority. In addition 
to meat, this form of poisoning may be caused by fish, milk, 
ice-cream, jellies, etc. 

Shell-fish, such as oysters, cockles and mussels living in 
water contaminated by sewage, as is so often the case near 
the mouths of rivers, may cause outbreaks of typhoid and 
sometimes of other disease. The remedy is careful super- 
vision by the Sanitary Authority of the position of all oyster- 
beds, and the cooking of shell-fish. 

Bacteria may also be present in the milk or flesh from a 
diseased animal, e.g. tuberculosis germs are common in 
milk because such a large proportion of milking cows suffer 
from this disease. Hence we ought to agitate for much more 
careful inspection of cows and much more stringent elimina- 
tion of the tuberculous animals, for, in the meantime we are 
driven to sterilise the milk in order to free it from germs, 
and this may decrease its value by destroying some at least 
of its vitamines. 

Milk as a disease-carrier, has a bad reputation, and justi- 
fiably so, and the more we can impress this fact on the minds 
of the general public the nearer shall we be to the remedy. At 
present, cows are often kept and milked in disgustingly dirty 
sheds, their bodies are allowed to become caked with dung, 
the milkers take little care about their own personal cleanli- 
ness, the milk-pails are usually not washed out thoroughly 
with boiling water, if despatched by rail the milk is often 
further contaminated with dust, etc., which enters the 
churn through the ventilating spaces (churns should not be 
ventilated), and at the journey's end still further oppor- 
tunities for entrance of germs are provided at the shop or 
centre from which it is distributed to the homes. Finally, 
in the home it is often re-infected because kept uncovered, 
in dirty vessels, and in a hot room. The result of all this is 
that the milk, even if from a healthy cow, is frequently 
infected with disease-germs by the time it is consumed, and 
this fact accounts for an enormous number of deaths of 
babies under one year old from diarrhoea, for a considerable 
number of deaths from tubercle, specially amongst babies, 



78 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

and for various outbreaks of typhoid, scarlet fever and 
diphtheria. 

The remedy lies in attacking the evil at its source, viz. 
the farm, and this is no easy matter, for the farmer is 
notoriously conservative in methods, and rural sanitary 
authorities are often lax in using their powers. Inspection 
of farms should be much more thorough than at present, 
and a real effort should be made to show the farmer by 
explanation and demonstration that cleanliness pays, if 
only in the longer time that clean milk " keeps " compared 
with dirty milk. Technical schools and institutes might well 
provide more education for intending farmers, and better 
arrangements might be made for conveying milk from the 
farm, both by road and rail, to the consumer. 

Animal parasites in food. Fortunately these are not a 
common danger in England ; in hot climates and in countries 
where much raw or semi-cooked food is eaten, disease from 
this source is much more frequent. It is possible to thus 
contract such diseases as tapeworm and trichinosis, both of 
which are due to worms which pass one stage of existence 
(larval or adult) in the ox, dog or pig and the other stage in 
man. Trichinosis, for instance, is fairly common in Germany 
owing to the large amount of raw or partly cooked sausage 
and pork eaten. 

Thorough cooking destroys all these parasites. 

Food-adulteration. This means the substitution of a 
cheaper material for the real article, or the addition of 
chemicals which improve the appearance of or preserve the 
food, or which get in accidentally. For instance, white bread 
may be adulterated by replacing some flour by a substance, 
such as potato, and by adding " flour-improvers " to increase 
the water-holding power of the flour, and by bleaching with 
other chemicals, in order to satisfy the stupid demand for 
whiteness. Copper salts are used to make preserved veget- 
ables, such as peas, look green, and may be harmful. Apart 
from this most food-dyes are harmless in themselves, but 
they may disguise bad quality in the food. Preservatives 
are enormously used to-day in food, and we are all being 
constantly dosed, therefore, with small amounts of such 



THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM AND FOOD 79 

chemicals as borax, boracic acid, salicylic acid and its salts, 
etc., and probably a good deal of indigestion is caused thus. 
It is not easy to remedy this matter because there are no 
definite laws about it, with the exception of the regulation 
for preserved cream, in which a definite small proportion of 
boracic acid is legal. 

Accidental introduction of poison may occur, especially in 
tinned food. Thus if the tin or solder be of poor quality, if 
the food be very acid, and if it has been long in the tin, some 
of the metal may dissolve and pass into the food, but cases 
of this kind are rare. Again, arsenic has occasionally been 
found in sugar, baking-powder and beer, having been 
introduced accidentally in the manufacture of these sub- 
stances. 1 

Beverages. 

Water. A good supply of pure drinking water is one of the 
primary necessities for the health of any community, and 
most towns have realised this fact and have secured, often 
at great expense, thoroughly satisfactory water. The danger 
from water, therefore, occurs chiefly in the country, where 
isolated farms, cottages, etc., often depend on springs or wells. 
These may easily be contaminated, especially if surface water 
can get access to them, e.g. farmyard drainage may percolate 
through the walls of the well, or a leaky cesspool may transmit 
sewage to a well in the vicinity, and the water from a good 
many wells has been found to be thus rendered dangerous. 
Typhoid germs are specially likely to enter water in this way. 

Hence the desirability of the " deep or Artesian " well 
rather than the shallow well. The former is named after the 
province of Artois, in France, where this type of well was 
first constructed, and its essential feature is that it passes 
through the upper porous rock till it comes to the first non- 
porous layer of rock, continues through this until it reaches 
the second region of porous rock, and obtains its water from 
this last region. The sides are concreted, and thus no surface 
water from the area round the well can gain access ; the 

1 For further information see "Food and the Public Health" by 
Dr. Savage. 



80 



A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 



water in the well comes from the area where the lower porous 
rock comes to the surface, and this is often miles away from 
the well itself, on high ground in a country district ; e.g. the 
fountains in Trafalgar Square are supplied by Artesian wells 
which bore through the non-porous London clay into the 
porous chalk below, and this comes to the surface in the 
Chiltern Hills and the North Downs. 

It may be wise in places depending on shallow wells or 
springs, to filter or boil the water before drinking ; but if a 



Chiltern Hills 
(Chalk) 



London 



N.Downs 



Clay 




Fig 1 . 4iA. Diagrammatic section through the London basin. 

filter be used it must conform with the rules given in the 
next chapter. 

Tea is very largely drunk in this country ; during the last 
hundred years its consumption per person has increased to 
five or six times what it. was originally. It contains two 
important substances, caffeine and tannin, the amounts of 
these varying in different kinds of tea, e.g. China contains 
less than Indian or Ceylon teas. Caffeine belongs to the class 
of substances called alkaloids, and is a stimulant to the Nervous 
System; it is thus useful in moderation, but harmful in 
excess, since over-stimulation is likely to result in an over- 
wrought, unstable, exhausted condition of " nerves." Tannin 
is distinctly harmful because it injures the coats of the 
stomach and hardens proteid foods, to all intents and pur- 
poses " tanning " them, and so making them leathery and 
indigestible. The longer the tea " stands " after making 



THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM AND FOOD 81 

the more tannin dissolves out from the leaves, and hence 
tea ought to be drunk three minutes after making, or it 
should at least be poured off the leaves if it is to be kept. 
In any case it is unwise to drink tea with or immediately 
after a meat meal. Many women ruin their digestions by 
keeping the tea-pot always standing on the hob and using 
the " stewed " tea at frequent intervals. 

Coffee contains the same stimulant, caffeine, as does tea, 
but it has less tannin, and so is not so likely to cause indi- 
gestion. Hence it is a wiser after-dinner drink than tea. 

Cocoa contains practically no stimulant, but it has much 
more food-value than either 'tea or coffee, and hence is far 
better for children. 

Milk is exceedingly important since it forms so large a 
part of the food of babies, older children and invalids, and 
also, unfortunately, is a very suitable breeding-ground for 
germs. 

It is interesting to compare the compositions of human 
and cow's milk, as expressed in the following percentages : 

Human Cow 

Proteid (casein, albumen, etc.) 2 4 

Fat 3 3'5 

Sugar . .74-5 

Salts o2 0-7 

Water .... 87-8 87-3 

Totals . . .100 100 

In addition plenty of vit amines are present, so that milk 
contains all the essential food-classes, and in human milk 
these are present in exactly the right proportions for the 
baby ; hence milk has been called a " perfect food," and 
this is true of human milk, for the human baby. 

Cow's milk, perfect for the calf, is not so for the baby, 
since it has too much proteid and too little sugar, and further, 
the casein forms a large clot in the stomach, whereas the 
casein of human milk forms a much smaller and therefore 
more easily digested clot. Hence if a baby is fed on cow's 
milk, these differences must somehow be overcome, e.g. 
by "humanising" the milk, i.e. diluting with water and 
6 



82 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

adding cream and sugar. The difficulty with regard to the 
size of the clot may be overcome by peptonising or by adding 
a little citrate of soda, but obviously the baby should be 
breast-fed, if possible, since its mother's nrlk needs none of 
this more or less troublesome adjustment and, in addition, 
is germ-free. 

As long as our milk-supply is of so doubtful a quality as at 
present, the only safe way is to sterilise milk. This means 
the destruction of germs by heat, and the quickest method 
is by boiling for a few minutes, but this, probably, more or less 
destroys the vitamines also. Milk boils at 91 C. A better 
way is to put the milk in a vessel of boiling water for fifteen 
minutes. This raises its temperature to about 80 C. A still 
better method is to " pasteurise," i.e. heat to 60 C. for twenty 
minutes, because this kills disease germs without destroying 
the vitamines or in any way harming the milk, but it is too 
troublesome a method for the home ; it can be and is carried 
out at some of the larger dairies. 

Condensed milk is prepared by evaporating most of the 
water from milk. In the sweetened brands, sugar is also 
added, and the viscid liquid is run into tins. The heating 
during manufacture and the sugar present suffice to free the 
milk from germs as a rule. The unsweetened brands undergo 
more heating during manufacture than do the sweetened, 
because bacteria are more likely to grow in absence of sugar. 
In both cases it is wise to examine the tins before buying and 
to refuse any which show outward bulging, as this means 
that gas has been formed in the tin owing to a growth of 
germs in the milk. Another very important difference arises 
from the fact that the original milk ma} 7 be whole or separated, 
and condensed milk made from the latter is deficient in fat, 
and hence is of much less value than that made from whole 
milk. The two kinds should be clearly labelled. Condensed 
milk contains fewer germs than does cow's milk, but it is 
always better to buy tins of such a size that the contents can 
be used up quickly, since germs niay get into the milk when 
once opened, and may swarm in it in a few days. 

As an emergency-food for babies condensed milk diluted 
with water may be very useful, e.g. on a journey when fresh 



THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM AND FOOD 83 

milk is unobtainable, or when the child seems temporarily 
unable to digest cow's milk, but a baby cannot safely be fed 
for long on condensed milk. 

Dried milk is the powder obtained by evaporating all the 
water from milk, and is used a good deal in making sweets, 
biscuits, etc., but from our point of view its importance lies 
in the fact that it is, under certain conditions, a very valuable 
food for babies. It is practically free from germs, and when 
dissolved in water gives a mixture almost identical with 
cow's milk in composition, with the advantage that it forms 
a smaller clot in the stomach, and hence is in this respect nearer 
to human milk and correspondingly more digestible. Opinion 
differs as to whether the vitamines are destroyed in dried 
milk ; but if so, probably they are only partially removed, for 
dried milk does not cause rickets. 



CHAPTER VII 
FOOD (continued) 

Children's diet Cleanliness of food, filters, contamination by flies 
Nutrition and malnutrition Feeding of school children : 
selection of children, arrangements for preparing and serving 
meals, educational value, rickets. 

Advice as to Children's Diet, (i) A child must be 
trained to eat proper food, for it usually wants the things 
worst for it. (2) The habit of chewing must be taught. 
(3) Starch is bad in excess, partly because it is insoluble in 
water and often sticky and so it clings to the teeth. Sugar is 
not bad, for, being soluble, it does not cling to the teeth, 
and also it is very quickly digested, and so can quickly supply 
the demands of the body for heat and energy, these demands 
being, relatively to its size, greater in the child than in the 
adult. Hence the craving for sugar is quite natural, and 
should be satisfied at meals, after the appetite has been 
largely satisfied on other things. I lately came across an 
illustration of the reviving effect of sugar. A friend with 
whom I was having tea said that he did not like sugar in 
tea, except when he was very tired, say after a long bicycle 
ride, when he felt a craving for it. He knew nothing of the 
food-value of sugar, and his testimony to it was quite un- 
conscious. Sugar can often supply a stimulus to people who 
otherwise might try to obtain the same energy from alcohol, 
with its much greater risk of ill-effects. Hence one should 
think twice before trying to check a taste for sugar in another 
person. (4) There is a tendency for children not to get 
enough fat, and the need for fat must be impressed on parents. 
The reason is that fat produces heat more than any other kind 
of food and the child loses heat faster than the adult because 

84 



FOOD 85 

the skin is thinner and its area bigger in proportion to the 
weight of the body. In babies lack of fat produces Rickets. 
(5) There is no special brain-food. (6) Do not be alarmed at 
a child's appetite, which should be specially big from 10-14 
in girls and 14-20 in men. (7) Rest after meals is desirable, 
including at least half an hour between dinner and lessons, be- 
cause the blood is diverted to the digestive tract and if drawn 
off to the brain, both digestion and intellectual work suffer. 
(8) Too hot food is bad. (9) Drinking between meals is best. 
(10) No work should be done before breakfast (cp. Munition 
Workers Committee's Report), (n) No heavy meal should be 
eaten later than three hours before bed. (12) Fare for children 
should be plain, wholesome, varied, digestible, and for ele- 
mentary school children, cheap. 

Articles of Food specially suitable for School Chil- 
dren, (i) Porridge with milk, finishing with a crust, apple, 
etc. Oatmeal is largely starch, but contains more Nitrogen 
than any other flour. Hence with milk it supplies all the 
necessary food-constituents. The Scotch largely live on it, 
and their physique is excellent. (2) Milk is the perfect food 
for babies, and a very valuable one at all ages, since it con- 
tains proteid, fat, sugar and water. (3) Cheese is half fat 
plus half proteid and therefore is very nutritious and should 
be much more eaten by the poor than it is. (4) Fish is more 
digestible than meat, and one can usually get some kinds 
cheaply, e.g. herring. (5) Peas, beans and lentils contain 
much proteid as well as starch and therefore supply practi- 
cally all the necessary food-constituents. If cooked with fat 
and for a long time they are very valuable, and practically 
all vegetarian meat -substitutes contain them. It must be 
remembered, however, that though adequate for wear and 
tear they are inadequate for growth and so must be supple- 
mented by other proteids, e.g. the casein of milk, or myosin 
of meat. They do enable one to reduce the amounts of meat 
needed. (6) Eggs are very nutritious, the white being pro- 
teid and the yolk fat. (7) Brown bread is better than white 
because it contains more proteid (present just under the husk), 
iron and phosphoric acid, is not so sticky and needs more 
chewing. (8) Dates are cheap, very nutritious and digestible ; 



86 



A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 



cp. large use by Arabs. (9) Figs are also good. (10) Mar- 
garine, dripping, bacon fat and olive oil are all good, (n) 
Fresh fruit can nearly always be got cheaply in big towns. 
Stewed fruit such as rhubarb is good. Nuts are very nutritious, 
and afford waste which promotes peristaltic action. (12) 
Suet and batter puddings with honey, treacle or sugar are 
excellent, and children like them. (13) Chocolate, jam, 
marmalade and pure sweets such as sugar candy are all good. 
(14) Cocoa is better than tea or coffee because it has more 
heat-value and less alkaloid (stimulant) and less tannin. 

Cleanliness of Food, (i) Water. In most towns nowadays 
there is no need to filter water, ' because it is supplied in fit 
condition to drink by the Water .Company or by the Muni- 
cipal Authority. Often it is brought long distances, and it is 



Water 
Supply 



u 

-h 



Kaolin 
Cylinder 

Metal 
Cylinder 



Fig. 42. Section through Chamberland-Pasteur Filter 

usually filtered before being supplied to the houses, e.g. 
Manchester is supplied from Thirlmere ; Birmingham from 
Mid-Wales ; Glasgow from Loch Katrine. In any case, the 
supply should be such as to do away with filters because it is 
impossible to maintain a sufficient standard of cleanliness in 
filters. Every filter needs cleansing or renewing once a week, 
and this is a hard thing to get done by servants or by a busy 
housewife. In most cases the water coming out of a filter 
is more impure than when it entered. However, a filter 
may be needed, e.g. in epidemics of typhoid (enteric), and 
then it must be a germ-filter, scrubbed and boiled weekly. 






FOOD 8? 

The two types fulfilling these conditions are the Berkefeld 
and the Chamberland-Pasteur. Here the filter is made of 
infusorial earth or of kaolin, both of which are porous, but 
stop even such tiny solid bodies as germs. One pattern can 
be fixed to an ordinary tap and is therefore very convenient. 
The cylinder of kaolin can be removed from its metal case 
when cleaning is needed. 

(2) How to stop contamination of food by flies. For the 
facts and suggestions given here see article in Journal of 
the Royal Sanitary Institute, March, 1917, by Dr. Joseph 
Gates, and the Discussion on it. The majority of deaths 
from food-poisoning in children are brought about by con- 
tamination of food by flies. The two outstanding symptoms 
of food-infection in children are sickness and diarrhoea 
(enteritis). The latter is a wholesale killer of children. In 
England and Wales 20,000 children under five die annually. 
It occurs almost exclusively in the three months of July, 
August and September, and much more in hot years, i.e. 
when flies are most active. It is pretty certain that flies act 
as carriers because the germs are often found in them. The 
disease is very common in slums with bad backyards. When 
local Sanitary Authorities abolish open ash-pits, earth- 
closets, ill-swept streets, and remove refuse quickly they 
will have done a great deal towards lessening the disease, 
for the house-fly lays its eggs in fermenting vegetable matter 
and whilst crawling over it gathers germs and so contaminates 
the surface of the material on which it next alights. There- 
fore the first step is to stop flies breeding, and stable manure 
should therefore be stored in fly-proof receptacles emptied 
at least weekly in summer and autumn. Other likely breeding- 
places must be dealt with similarly, e.g. ash-bins. 

To free a house from flies there is nothing equal to the 
sticky fly-paper, or lengths of wire or string dipped into some 
suitable sticky stuff. Wire cages or glass vessels baited with 
attractive material can be kept in each room and people 
wanting sport can slay flies with the nice little flails now sold 
for that purpose. A little paraffin in the water used for 
cleaning windows is excellent, and paint can be wiped over 
with a cloth moistened with paraffin. 



88 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

All food, especially milk, sweets and fruit, should be 
screened from flies, in safes or cupboards. A cheap safe 
can be made from a sugar box with the sides partly cut out 
and gauze inserted, and with a gauze curtain to cover the 
front. In pantries, gauze curtains can be suspended in front 
of shelves. Gauze covers should be used for basins, jugs, etc. 
It is not unusual to see a baby's bottle left on the table after 
being used by the baby, with the stopper out and several 
flies in it. It is rarely sterilised or even washed before being 
used again. Again, in some houses food is left on the table 
for hours. In shops, fly-proof and glass cases and muslin 
should be used. In certain trades more use should be made of 
cold-storage chambers, and meat and fish should not be 
exposed to the dust and dirt of the streets in the summer. It 
would help if customers refused to buy things over which 
flies were crawling. Not only summer diarrhoea can be con- 
veyed by flies, but also typhoid, dysentery, some forms of 
tuberculosis, etc. Many of our Colonies have realised the 
importance of the contamination of food by flies, as shown 
in their by-laws ; e.g. Auckland (New Zealand), in 1909, 
brought in regulations to prevent fly-infection in butchers' 
shops. Toronto, in 1911, passed a by-law prohibiting exposure 
of any food unless covered to protect it from dust, flies, etc. 
Sydney refuses to allow milk to be kept in dairies unless in a 
fly-proof safe. Various devices exist for so covering the food 
that it may be visible, and ventilated, and not under glass, 
which traps heat and so injures food ; e.g. mosquito netting 
on iron frames, with trap-doors through which customers 
are served. In School, all children should be taught how 
flies contaminate food. 

Nutrition and Malnutrition. The Chief Medical Officer 
of the Board of Education, in his Report for 1914, says " sound 
nutrition is a general physiological condition which connotes 
a healthy body in all respects and the good tone and health 
of its various constituent parts, its brain and nervous system, 
its muscular, digestive, circulatory and lymphatic systems. 
All this means that we must take a -wide and comprehensive 
view of nutrition, which is a state revealing itself in a variety 
of signs and symptoms. Thus, in endeavouring to estimate 



FOOD 89 

a child's nutrition or its opposite (viz. malnutrition), we must 
think not only of bulk and weight of body, but of ratio of 
stature to weight ; of the general balance and ' substance ' 
of the body and of its carriage and bearing ; of the firmness 
of the tissues ; of the presence of subcutaneous fat ; of the 
condition and process of development of the muscular 
system ; of the condition of the skin and the redness of the 
mucous membranes ; of the nervous and muscular systems 
as expressed in listlessness or alertness, in apathy or keen- 
ness ; of the condition of the various systems of the body, 
and, speaking generally, of the relative balance and co-ordina- 
tion of the functions of digestion, absorption and assimilation 
of food as well as of the excretion of waste products. It is 
obvious that these are data which are likely to lead to a much 
more reliable opinion than the consideration of any one 
factor or ratio . . . and these data will demand a wider as 
well as a more careful and accurate observation of the whole 
physique of the child." 

Causes of Malnutrition. The Report points out that a 
good deal of attention has lately been devoted to investigating 
these causes, with the result that the following factors, 
amongst others, have been found to govern the condition : (i) 
Food-insufficiency and unsuitability. (2) Bad home sur- 
roundings and neglect. (3) Lack of fresh air and sunlight. 
(4) Unsuitable sleeping arrangements want of ventilation 
and overcrowding in bedrooms, insufficient sleep. (5) 
Employment out of school hours. (6) Want of cleanliness. 
(7) Unhealthy school conditions. (8) Congenital debility. 
(9) Disease (mouth-breathing, decayed teeth, adenoids, 
bronchitis, suspected tuberculosis, rheumatism, etc.). (10) 
Unsuitable attendance of young children in rural areas. 
The majority of investigators lay special stress on three of 
these causes, viz. : (i) Unsuitable food ; (2) enlarged tonsils, 
adenoids and tuberculosis ; (3) insufficient sleep. Thus 
Dr. On, of Shrewsbury, says : "The subject of unsuitable food 
is very important. The women of the working classes show 
a surprising ignorance of the proper methods of cooking for 
family requirements, a want of knowledge of the value and 
suitability of food-stuffs, and too often a general incom- 






90 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

petence respecting household management. One is inclined 
to attribute a good deal of this want of knowledge to the 
absence of proper education with respect to these subjects, 
and support of this view is afforded by the results from the 
education of mothers at the School for Mothers. Here they 
receive instruction in cooking cheap but nutritious and 
suitable meals for families and in general house-management. 
This instruction is received with the greatest enthusiasm 
and interest by the women concerned and much good results." 

Dr. Macdonald, of Northampton, reports : " This condition 
of Malnutrition is hard to define scientifically, and any two 
observers might show widely different figures from examina- 
tion of the same children. In the majority of cases there is 
nothing tangible, but the children give to the observer the 
feeling of their not being just right. Some of them belong to 
the group that, for lack of a better name, we designate 
pretuberculous. Others are frankly adenoidal, while many 
are suffering, not from insufficiency of food (that, I think, is 
far from common in Northampton), but from bad food and 
badly prepared food. The quantity may be there, but the 
quality and proper selection are absent . White bread, made of 
poor quality flour, and potatoes form the staple of many 
dietaries. 

" Anothei potent factor in the production of chronic 
dyspepsia which is, I believe, much more common amongst 
children than is generally thought, is the all-pervading 
antiseptic preservative. This is not restricted by any means 
to tinned products, but in the form of boric acid, formalin, 
salicylic acid, and so on, haunts our fresh butter, milk, 
cream and other comestibles." 

Dr. Halliwell (Dewsbury) states that " malnutrition is 
frequently associated with adenoids and enlarged tonsils. 
It must be emphasised that children who show signs of 
malnutrition are potential if not actual harbourers of the 
tubercle bacillus." Dr. Hamer (London) says : " Tuberculosis 
in one form or another is a cause of malnutrition in over 
twenty-five per cent of the cases where any cause is assigned 
and the parents are urged by the Care Committees to attend 
the local tuberculosis dispensary or other institution where 



FOOD 91 

treatment can be got." Dr. Meredith Young (Cheshire) says : 
" Many of the poorly nourished children come from good 
homes and are accompanied at the examination by their 
mothers. This class of child may have defective assimilation 
due to hidden sources of sepsis, e.g. dental abscess, or septic 
tonsils, defective digestion, intestmal parasites and tuber- 
culosis. This last is so strongly suspected as the most frequent 
cause of malnutrition that it has been stated ' Malnutrition 
is Tuberculosis.' ' Dr. Roberts (Denbighshire) says : " Insuffi- 
ciency of sleep is another cause which unquestionably has a 
deleterious effect on the growth and healthy development of 
the school child. One feels that the evil habit of late hours is 
becoming more general. Children of tender years who 
should be in bed, crowd into the poisonous atmosphere of 
picture dromes, and before long it will become essential to 
make regulations controlling the admission of children to 
such shows, as the question is becoming one of vital import- 
ance." 

Prevalence of Malnutrition. The 1916 Report of the 
Chief Medical Officer of the Board of Education gives ten 
per cent children as sub-normal, say 600,000 children, there 
being a higher percentage in town than in country. London 
is an exception to this rule, probably owing to the large 
number of organisations in London for the protection of the 
public health and the improvement of insanitary conditions 
arising from uncleanliness and overcrowding. The good 
record in the country is due to more fresh air and sun and 
longer sleep (no cinemas and less employment out of school, 
at any rate before the War). 

Methods of Dealing with Malnutrition, (i) Visits to the 
homes by the school nurses give " opportunities for homely 
talks with parents on the benefits of fresh air, sunlight, 
regular, suitable and sufficient meals and a proper amount of 
sleep." (2) " The Juvenile Employment and Advisory 
Committees brought into existence since the passing of the 
Labour Exchanges Act, 1909, and the Education (Choice of 
Employment) Act, 1910, have, by association with the staff 
of the School Medical Service and in other ways, been instru- 
mental in obtaining reform in connection with some of the 



92 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

flagrant cases of excessive juvenile employment which have 
been brought to their notice." (3) The provision, by local 
Education Authorities of medical treatment for physical de- 
fects is removing the causes of malnutrition in many cases. 
(4) The provision of meals by Education Authorities cor- 
rects many cases of malnutrition. (5) Some Authorities 
provide Cod Liver Oil, etc., e.g. Newbury, which is a rural 
area with twenty-four per cent of children with nutrition 
below the normal, provides hot milk in the middle of the 
morning in school for a small cost. Nottingham supplies 
children with Extract of Malt and Cod Liver Oil at whole- 
sale cost price. (6) Many of these malnourished children 
are suitable subjects for Open-Air Schools. They should 
have the first claim to any open-air education provided. 

Feeding of School Children. This matter is dealt with in 
Section XI of the Report for 1914 School meals are a 
means of more or less patching up the condition of mal- 
nutrition. Up to 1906, school meals were entirely supplied 
by charitable organisations, but in that year the Provision of 
Meals Bill empowered Local Authorities to help voluntary 
efforts for feeding underfed children by providing buildings, 
furniture, apparatus and also food, to the extent of a half- 
penny rate. The cost can be recovered from parents able to 
pay. In August, 1914, a few days after the beginning of the 
War, a fresh Act was passed, legalising the provision of meals 
during holidays and on other days when the school is not 
open, and repealing the limit previously placed on expenditure, 
and giving Grants in aid of Free Meals. In most cases these 
Grants have been fifty per cent of the Authorities' expenditure. 
Since the War the number of children requiring free meals 
has decreased largely, owing to high wages and separation 
allowances. In the year ending March, 1915, meals were 
provided on 5 days a week by 65 Authorities, on 6 days a week 
by 44 Authorities, and on 7 days a week by 23 Authorities. 
In 109 areas meals were supplied during part or all of the 
holidays. Canteen Committees are appointed in each area 
and they voluntarily undertake much work. The Board of 
Education has issued a Memorandum on methods of providing 
meals and on suitable dietaries (Circular 856) which has been 



FOOD 93 

of great use in improving local arrangements, e.g. in varying 
menus according to season, etc. Far fewer Authorities now 
feed their children at eating-houses or restaurants, which are 
undesirable from many points of view. Again, there is some 
increase in co-ordination between Free Meals and School 
Medical Service though not as much as there should be. 
However, the arrangements differ very much in different 
areas, and in most improvement is desirable. 

Selection of Children. Must be mainly done by teachers, 
for the obvious reason that they have the best chance of 
observing the children. They should not be asked to under- 
take any duties connected with organisation or supervision, 
but all teachers should watch their children's general health, 
and report cases of ailing children. In most cases they do 
this admirably. In addition, parents can apply direct for 
meals for their children ; and School Doctors, Nurses, 
Members of Care Committees, Attendance Officers, etc., can 
all report cases to the Canteen Committee. 

Place of the School-doctor. He " should both supplement 
and correct the lists prepared by teachers " and others. As 
soon as possible he should examine the children selected to 
see that they are getting the right treatment, for malnutrition 
is not solely due to underfeeding or wrong feeding. He can 
examine them at the School Clinic as " specials " or note 
their condition during visits to the Feeding Centre. Some 
children will only require medical treatment ; some children 
will only require meals ; some children will require both. 
" The Authorities are using their School Medical Service and 
their organisation for meals in a wasteful and unproductive 
way, unless at the earliest possible stage each child's trouble 
is diagnosed and medically treated." 

Premises for Meals. These differ greatly in different 
areas. Sometimes Central Kitchens belonging to the 
Authority cook the food and distribute it either to dining 
halls specially taken for the purpose or to schools. Some- 
times the food is both cooked and served in hired premises, 
or in the school, or in Cookery Centres. Sometimes the food 
is cooked by caterers and served in halls engaged by the 
Authority or in the school. In a few cases (rapidly decreasing) 



94 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

it is served in restaurants. These various methods all have 
advantages and disadvantages, e.g. the school is a good place 
in that it is easier to get the services of teachers here, and 
order is better if teachers are present. Also it is easier for 
children to be punctual and to rest after the meal. It is bad 
in that if the food is cooked at school a separate cook and 
supply of apparatus are needed for each school ; also suitable 
accommodation is not always available ; also ventilating is 
interfered with. Usually it is best to select a few convenient 
schools as centres to which children from other schools can go. 
Dining halls have many advantages from the point of view of 
organisation and economy, but it is not so easy to make the 
meal a civilising and educating influence where you have a 
very big number present. Hence small tables with plenty 
of assistants are good. Cookery Centres are good because the 
children can help cook the meal. At one such centre the 
cost was about twopence per head, the meal was served in 
the Infants' Hall, at trestle tables covered with oil baize. 
The infants sat separately, at kindergarten tables, and wore 
bibs made in the needlework classes. The tables were 
decorated with flowers and the boy monitors helped lay them. 
Elder girls helped to wash the younger ones' hands. Children 
said Grace, behaved quietly and enjoyed their meal. A 
teacher supervised. 

Arrangements at Feeding Centres are suggested in the 
Board's Memorandum (Circular 856). Many Authorities 
have issued printed instructions, and the following are 
extracts from these : (i) Teachers should send children out 
to dinner in time to get to the Centre punctually, and should 
see that they wash before leaving school. (2) Meals should 
be of educational as well as of physical value. Disorder or 
too rigid discipline are therefore to be avoided, and a spirit 
of homeliness and cheerfulness cultivated. (a) Children 
should be seated before the meal begins, and should say Grace. 
(b) They must not be allowed to eat too fast, and nobody 
should get up till all have finished, (c) Children should not 
be kept waiting outside in cold or' wet weather, (d) Cheerful 
talk during the meal should be encouraged along with polite- 
ness of request and thanks, (e) Clean hands and faces should 



FOOD 95 

be insisted on and children should be taught good manners, 
e.g. how to use spoons, forks, knives, not to spill food, to 
consider the wants of others, etc. (/) No food must be taken 
away, (g) Punctuality must be insisted on. (h) Some of the 
elder girls should act as waitresses. They should be provided 
with clean washable aprons and sleeves, and should have 
meals after the other children. (3) Young children and 
fidgety eaters should be given small helpings and encouraged 
to eat what they don't like, and they can thus be taught to 
eat the same food as other children. 

Meals in Rural Districts. Here often the problem is not 
poverty, but distance from school to home, the object being to 
avoid long journeys in the middle of the day and yet get 
comfortable and healthy meals. In many cases parents pay 
willingly. The School Medical Officer for Devonshire reports 
that there is prevailing ignorance as to suitable and economical 
food and cooking, and that often the food provided for 
children who stay to dinner at school is neither sufficient nor 
suitable. Children stay to dinner in 540 departments, of 
which 222 have some arrangements for supplying hot drinks, 
warming food, etc., but usually only in winter. The usual 
charge is a penny weekly per child, but in some cases hot 
dinners are provided at one penny daily. In Herts, two 
schools supply penny dinners and some head teachers supply 
hot cocoa, often at only one penny per week. In Gloucester- 
shire local feeding centres exist in about twelve schools. 
Bedfordshire has a scheme for providing cocoa for children 
staying to dinner ; it is self-supporting or assisted by local 
funds. 

London School Feeding. The L.C.C. supplies breakfasts, 
dinners and milk in the middle of the morning. All the 
poorer cases get two meals, and in some cases cod liver oil" 
as an alternative to milk. Meals are provided on every day 
of the week, by the Alexandra Trust, Cookery Centres, 
Kitchen Centres and Private Caterers. 

Results. The training in civilised manners is undoubtedly 
permeating to the home, as parents often testify. Further, 
the children are developing the habit of right feeding. Reform 
in the home is being aimed at by instruction to housewives on 



96 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

foods which can be used as substitutes for meat and fish, 
food specially fit for children, economy in buying, cooking, 
etc., and the use of simple cooking apparatus with special 
regard to economy of fuel. The Board of Education gives 
grants to local authorities undertaking this work. 

Rickets is essentially a disease of babyhood, and a good 
many babies die of it. The cause is wrong food, chiefly lack 
of fat, a lack existing in all-patent foods. The disease begins 
with excessive perspiration and swelling of the abdomen, 
and the bones do not ossify properly. After-results. These 
are the worst feature of the disease, and by the time the child 
comes to school are all that remain of it. They include (i) 
stunted body ; (2) square, bony forehead ; (3) bow-legs and 
knock-knees ; (4) deformed spine (severe lateral curvature 
is often due to rickets) ; (5) rachitic chest, showing two 
grooves, one on each side of the breast -bone, owing to the 
softness of the bone making it unable to resist the external 
atmospheric pressure. This is always accompanied by 
deficient power of expanding the chest and by tendency to 
lung complaints ; (6) bony swellings on the ends of the bones, 
at points such as the elbow, knees, wrist and on the ends of 
the ribs, giving " rickety rosary," so-called because the 
lumps look like beads under the skin. 



FOOD 



97 




Fig. 43. Rickets. Note the deformity of the legs 
and the thickening of the wrists and ankles 

(From Porter's School Hygiene. Longmans, Green and Co,) 



CHAPTER VIII 
THE EXCRETORY SYSTEM 

Skin : uses, care of skin and hair Skin-diseases : scald-head, scabies, 
ringworm, alopecia, pediculosis. The kidneys. 

The Excretory System . This consists of the skin, kidneys, 
lungs and large intestine or bowel, and its function is the 
getting rid of the waste matter formed whenever mental or 
physical work is done, and that which represents the un- 
digestible part of the food. 

The Skin consists of two layers dermis and epidermis. 
The epidermis, or scarf-skin, is built of cells which become 
very much flattened at the 'surf ace and peel off, being replaced 
by new cells from beneath. The dermis, or true skin, contains 
capillary blood-vessels, the ends of the nerves of touch, coiled 
up into cocoon-shaped bundles called " touch-corpuscles," the 
sweat glands, which are colled-up tubes opening by straight 
ducts on to the surface of the epidermis, and the roots of the 
hairs, which are formed by the dipping down of the epidermis 
into the dermis, so forming a socket in which the hair 
originates. Opening into each hair-socket are two little 
glands (sebaceous glands) which make an oily secretion 
(sebum) and pour it into the socket. The skin is flung into 
folds, which are most obvious on the palms of the hands and 
the soles of the feet. 

Functions of the Skin, (i) To excrete sweat, a waste 
fluid, separated from the blood by the sweat-glands, and 
consisting of ninety-eight per cent water + two per cent solid. 
The solid consists of f at + organic acids + mineral salts (e.g 
Sodium Chloride). This amounts to about one quart per day 
and is chiefly given off as invisible vapour. Active exercise 
and certain nervous conditions increase the amount so that it 






THE EXCRETORY SYSTEM 



99 



cannot evaporate as quickly as it is formed, and therefore 
appears as liquid visible sweat. (2) Other functions of the 
skin, apart from excretion, are important. Thus it is a sense- 
organ, since it contains the touch-bodies which receive 
impressions of touch, temperature, etc. (3) Also, it is one of 
the chief regulators of body-temper atitre, five-sixths of the heat 




Fig. 44. Vertical section of the skin (diagrammatic) 

i, epidermis ; 2, malpighian layer of epidermis ; 3, dermis ; 
4, subcutaneous tissue ; 5, blood-vessels giving off loops into the 
papillte of dermis ; 6, touch corpuscle ; 7, sweat gland ; 8, duct 
of sweat gland ; 9, cluster of fat cells ; 10, cut end of blood- 
vessel 

(From Thornton's Elementary Practical Physiology. 
Longmans, Green and Co.) 

given out by the body being lost in the form of latent heal 
needed to evaporate the sweat and in warming the air in 
contact with the skin, as explained in the chapter on Respira- 
tion. 

Care of Skin and Hair. If the skin be left unwashed it 
becomes covered with a layer of dirt, consisting of sebum, the 
horny surface-cells of the epidermis, the solid part of the 



100 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

sweat, and dust, germs, etc., trapped by the sticky, oily stuff 
on the skin. Decomposition sets in and we get the very 
objectionable odour of dirty skin ; skin-disease and parasites 
flourish ; the sweat-glands are blocked, so that the sweat is 
more or less prevented from escaping, and the skin becomes 
charged with waste matter. It therefore gets into an un- 
healthy state, develops pimples, 'blotches, etc., and extra 
work is flung on the other excretory organs, such as the 
kidneys, which try to get rid of the waste which should be 
eliminated by the skin. Heat-retention also follows, the 
results of which have already been discussed. Consequently, 
one needs to remedy this state of affairs in school by instruc- 
tion in rules for the care of the skin, and by practice of those 
rules as far as the washing facilities in the school permit. 
This matter will be dealt with fully in Chapter X. 

Indications of Health and Disease of Skin. A healthy 
skin is clear, smooth and firm. An unhealthy skin shows 
rashes, blotches, etc., and is very liable to disease. The 
commoner skin-diseases are : 

1. Scald-head or Contagious Impetigo or Infectious 
Eczema. This consists of little blisters, first on the face, speci- 
ally at the corners of mouth and chin, then spreading over the 
scalp, hands and arms. It is usually associated with vermin. 
After a few days, dry yellow scabs form. Children are in- 
fectious and therefore should be separated from others. They 
are often seen in school, plastered with ointment, which is 
quite useless unless the scabs are got off first. The right 
treatment is to poultice for half an hour with bread and linseed, 
then pick off the crust with clean rag over a basin of hot 
water, then put on white precipitate ointment, and the 
condition can be cured in twenty-four hours. Dr. Crowley 
calls this the most common form of skin-disease among 
children. 

2. Scabies or Itch is due to a parasite, just visible to the 
naked eye, one-fiftieth of an inch long, which burrows into 
the skin, specially in the creases between the fingers and at 
the wrists, producing a track about one-eighth of an inch to 
one-quarter of an inch long, at the end of which she lays eggs. 
Hence black lines mark the burrows and little vesicles mark 



THE EXCRETORY SYSTEM 



101 



the tops. The irritation makes the child scratch and so 
produce little sores and scabs. Itching is worst at night, when 
the skin is warm, for then the young parasites come out of 
the burrows and crawl about on the skin. It is violently 
contagious, spreading over the hand and often over the whole 




Fig. 45. Scabies 

(From Drummond's School Hygiene. Edward Arnold) 

body, and to every person in the house, and into everything in 
the home. Treatment. A hot bath. Then rub all over with 
Sulphur Ointment. Put clean sheets in the bed. Next day 
put on clean clothes sheets and clothes being boiled after 
use. All this should be repeated next night, and daily till the 
insect is exterminated. It usually takes one month, and often 
six or seven months if directions are not carefully carried out. 



102 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

In 1916 there was a great increase in the number of cases 
of Itch in Elementary Schools, and this is attributed to 
contact with soldiers home on leave from France and else- 
where, and Dr. Adamson, Physician for Diseases of the Skin 
at St. Bartholomew's Hospital, gives the following treatment, 
which usually cures the patient in three days : (a) A hot bath 
lasting half an hour on three consecutive days. During the 
bath the body, especially hands, wrists and buttocks, are 
scrubbed with soft soap by a flesh brush, (b) After the bath, 
sulphur ointment is rubbed in, the patient puts on an old 
sleeping-suit, socks and gloves, and goes to bed till it is time 
for the next bath. The underclothes are washed and the 
outer garments brushed and aired. 

Dr. Crowley says of Scabies, " The diagnosis is not always 
easy, and one not infrequently comes across cases being 
treated as eczema and which fail to get better until the real 
cause has been ascertained and the appropriate treatment 
used. Besides being mistaken for eczema it is also mistaken 
for Lichen urticatus, and cases of this complaint are wrongly 
labelled as scabies/' 

3. Ringworm.. This is not a dirt -disease, like the preceding. 
It is due to a fungus attacking the scalp or the skin of the 
body, and the two types are distinct, (a) Ringworm of the 
body is the true ringworm. It occurs at any age, in any place, 



:*17^ 



Fig. 46. Body ringworm 

beginning as a spot which enlarges to the size of a shilling 
and then the centre heals and the outside spreads. The 
children should be excluded. It can be cured in three or 
four weeks by treatment with (sulphur -f white precipitate) 
ointment, (b) Ringworm of the head consists of a rough 
scaly patch of any size, up to one covering the whole head. 
It is not in a ring at all, but may be of any shape. In ninety 



THE EXCRETORY SYSTEM 103 

per cent of cases a Jew hairs are affected and break off short, 
but the hair as a whole does not fall out, and therefore you 
only notice the patch on looking. In Paris the average period 
of cure is twenty-five months, and five years is quite common, 
whilst cases may last ten or eleven years. It is typically a 
disease of childhood, never occurring in adults, and it is 




(From Adamson's Skin Affections in Childhood 
Oxford Medical Publications) 

commonest between five and seven years old. From the 
school point of view its seriousness lies in the educational loss 
from long absence plus the fact that cases often return un- 
cured and infect others. In Leeds (in 1915) 116,488 attend- 
ances were lost through it, and in Ipswich 69 children lost 
3,650 days. Treatment. The only successful method is by 
X-rays. These make the affected hair faU out, but it grows 



104 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

again ; five or six years ago it didn't always grow again, 
because operators did not know the right strength and length 
of application of the Rays. All Education Authorities should 
provide X-ray treatment. In some places children are 
allowed to come to school with ringworm. If so, they should 
wear a cap or bonnet, should sit in separate desks, should 
either never wash in school or have a special towel kept in a 
special place, and should hang outdoor clothes in the care- 
taker's or some other room apart from the school cloak- 
room. Mothers often say that the child simply has scurf or 
dandruff, but this is not so rough as ringworm and the scales 
rub off more easily and it is not in patches, but all over the 
scalp. 

4. Alopecia is fairly common in children and often mis- 
taken for ringworm. It may be partial or total. The partial 
form is marked by a bare patch, coming suddenly on the 
head. The patch is quite shiny and so unlike ringworm. It is 
not infectious. In partial Alopecia the hair grows again, 
usually. In total Alopecia the hair does not grow again, 
usually. 

5. Pediculi or Lice. This is much commoner among girls 
than boys. The Board of Education's Report for 1916 shows 
about twenty-five per cent of girls to have nits or lice present 
(usually the former). This is a condition which only head 
teachers can really deal with efficiently. Doctors and Nurses 
and the Law can only deal with the bad cases. Extra- 
ordinarily good results have been obtained in some very dirty 
schools by cleanliness campaigns conducted by an enthusiastic 
staff. " It is not, perhaps, sufficiently understood even yet 
how closely allied is uncleanliness to disease. For the child 
uncleanliness is disease, irritation and disablement. Infection 
follows it like a shadow, and maladies of the skin soon arise. 
Thus the child becomes a victim of dirt, its sleep is disturbed, 
and its education largely nullified." 1 

The Head-louse is a grey-coloured animal, hardly visible on 
the skin, the colour varying with race, to match the skin. 
Many more males than females exist, and each female lays fifty 

1 From the report of the Chief Medical Officer of the Board of 
Education, 1915. 



THE EXCRETORY SYSTEM 



105 



to one hundred eggs in its three or four weeks of life. It has a 
sharp borer which pierces the skin and sharp claws with 





Fig. 48. Various kinds of lice 
(From Our Baby, by Mrs. Langton Hewer. J. Wright and Sons, Bristol) 

which to cling to the hair. Life-history. The eggs are laid 
on the hair, as small brown specks and are cemented to the 
hair very firmly, so that they point downwards. They are 




Fig-. 49. Diagram showing how 
nit is fastened to hair 



usually placed one inch or so from the roots. In examining 
a head it is best to look under the hair, at the back. Owing to 
its downward direction the nits are not likely to come off 



106 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

during ordinary brushing and combing. They hatch in six 
or eight days and the empty case then looks whitish. The 
female begins to lay when a fortnight old. She lives by blood- 
sucking, inserting a poison which makes the wound itch, and 
so the child scratches, and the result is sores which become 
caked over with scabs and sometimes spread to the face. 
This is the common cause and form of Impetigo. Also, the 
glands at the back of the neck are often poisoned, enlarge 
and may become tuberculous. 

Treatment, (a) Nits only, (i) Cut away the hair with 
the nits. (2) Soak with warm vinegar for half an hour. (3) 
Then comb with a fine tooth-comb (penny ones are of no 
use). * (4) Repeat nightly, till no nits are left and it may 
take many nights, (b) Lice. Rub in a mixture of equal 
parts of petroleum and olive oil over night, tie up in a hand- 
kerchief, and shampoo with hot water and soft soap in the 
morning. Repeat for two or three days. Tooth-comb also. 

The Body-louse leaves little pink spots, closer than flea- 
bites, and blood-specks on the clothes. Look for the spots 
on the upper part of the chest. The louse and eggs are found 
oftenest on the inner side of the clothes. Treatment. A hot 
bath, and clothes baked or boiled, or at least gone slowly 
over with a hot iron. Clean sheets and everything must be 
clean all at once. 

The Kidneys. These much resemble sheep's kidneys, 
with which most people are familiar. There are two 
in the body, placed high up towards the back of the 
abdomen. Each is full of branching, twisting tubes, all 
opening into one main tube, the ureter, which termi- 
nates low down in the front of the abdomen, in the 
bladder. Further, the kidney is full of capillary blood- 
vessels, formed by the breaking up of the renal artery which 
brings blood to be purified in the kidney. These finally unite to 
form the renal vein, by which the blood leaves the kidney. 
The kidney glands separate a waste fluid, urine, from the 
blood and pass it down to the bladder. Urine consists of 
water -{-nitrogenous material and mineral salts dissolved in it. 
The nitrogenous stuff is called urea and uric acid. About 
three pounds or two and a half pints of urine are excreted 



THE EXCRETORY SYSTEM 107 

daily, containing ninety-six per cent water and four per cent 
solid. Kidneys and skin between them get rid of most of the 
waste water of the body, and if one be very active, then the 
other is not so active, and vice versa ; e.g. in cold weather 
there is less blood in the skin capillaries ; therefore we excrete 
less perspiration and mor& urine. Stone in kidneys or bladder, 
and inflammation are fairly common in children and there- 
fore may cause frequent need for leaving the rcom Inflam- 
mation of kidneys, leading to Bright 's disease, may occur 
after scarlet fever, and one should therefore be very careful 
to avoid chills during convalescence, as a chill on this inflam- 
mation may have very serious results. The work of Lungs and 
Bowels have already been discussed (in Chapters V and VI). 



CHAPTER IX 

WARMTH AND CLOTHING 

Nature of body-heat Clothing (use, characteristics of good clothing, 
materials, choice of clothing for children, foot-gear, handkerchiefs). 

IN a cold climate, such as ours, the main object of clothing 
is to conserve the heat of the body. This heat is produced by 
chemical changes in the body, these changes consisting 
chiefly of oxidation of the food-substances taken into the 
blood, and so clothes have been said to be a substitute for 
food, and, indeed, if well-clothed one needs less food, and 
vice versa. 

Points to be considered in regard to Clothing. 

I. Conductivity for heat. This depends partly on the 
material and partly on its texture, air-interstices greatly 
decreasing conductivity, since air is a bad conductor. For 
the same reason several thin garments are warmer than one 
thick one of equal weight, because of the layers of air between 
the former. Wool is a bad conductor ; linen is a good con- 
ductor ; cotton is an intermediate conductor, cellular makes 
such as " Aertex " being much worse conductors than calico 
and hence much warmer, for a given weight of material. (2) 
Clothing should be hygroscopic, i.e. capable of absorbing water 
into its substance, and letting it evaporate off slowly. Wool 
is of this description, whilst calico is non-hygroscopic, and so 
perspiration condenses on its surface, evaporates rapidly, 
taking latent heat from the skin, and hence the skin is covered 
with a cold, wet, clammy material, and chills ensue. (3) Any 
material which is waterproof is bad because it stops evapora- 
tion, and hence causes heat -retention in the body, one of the 
surest ways of upsetting it, as already explained under 
Respiration (Chapter V). Most people know the discomfort 

108 



CLOTHING 109 

of taking active exercise in a mackintosh, and how when one 
takes it off one often finds the inside surface quite wet owing 
to condensation of sweat on it. (4) Inflammability should be 
considered, e.g. flannelette is cotton with nap produced on 
the surface, giving it nearly as great warmth as flannel, but it 
is highly inflammable, even the kinds sold as safe being nearly 
as bad after one or two washings as the rest. Hence, if 
parents cannot afford wool, they should be very careful that 
children dressed in flannelette night-gowns, etc., don't go 
near fires or flames of any kind. (5) The " Make " of the 
garment is important. It should.be loose enough to allow 
the film of air in contact with the surface to move freely, and 
so help evaporation of sweat. Also, loose clothes are warmer, 
because the layers of air caught between them are non- 
conductors. Further, tight clothes compress muscles, hinder 
movement, circulation, respiration, etc. and school children 
wear a surprising number of tight garments. (6) The Weight 
should be as little as possible, for heavy clothes are tiring. 
All weight should hang from the shoulders rather than from 
the hips. Hence the " Princess " style is better than two 
separate garments, and combinations are better than chemise 
and drawers. (7) Clothing should be uniform over the body. 
As a rule women have too many layers at the waist, and often 
children have far too little on the legs. Bare legs may cause 
much damage by helping on the latent rheumatism so common 
in children. (8) If possible, clothing should be of material 
which does not shrink in washing, but this is very hard to 
obtain in conjunction with the other desirable qualities, for 
wool is by far the best material for wearing next the skin in 
summer and winter in all respects except this that it does 
shrink, owing to the loss of its natural oil during washing. 
Cotton, on the other hand, does not shrink. 

Children's Rational Clothing. Boys are usually much 
more sensibly dressed than girls. The chief error in boys' 
dress is excess, e.g. three waistcoats or three jerseys under the 
coat are not uncommon. 

I Suitable clothing for quite a little boy, of four years old 
y, might consist of combinations, knickers buttoned on 
a body (which does away with braces), and a tunic. The 



110 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

material of these garments should vary according to season. 
The combinations are best made of wool, thin in summer and 
thick in winter, but if of cotton, e.g. flannelette, cellular 
stuffs, etc., a woollen vest should be worn underneath in 
winter. Winter combinations should have long sleeves. 
The knickers might be of drill or casement cloth in summer 
and of serge in winter, but in this case they need a cotton 
detachable lining or at least a cotton lining for the seat. The 
body can be made of drill. The tunic can be of holland, case- 
ment cloth or woollen stuff. 

For an older boy, say of ten, clothes might consist of shirt, 
drawers, jersey (instead of waistcoat), knickers and coat. In 
summer the jersey or coat might be discarded. The material 
for the underclothes should vary with the season, as described 
in the last paragraph, the remarks about combinations apply- 
ing in this case to shirt and drawers. 

A girl's clothes might consist of combinations, knickers 
buttoned on to a body, and a blouse and drill-tunic or a 
straight frock with loose belt, the materials again varying 
with weather as suggested above. Combinations are much 
better than chemise and drawers, but are not popular with 
poor parents, partly because they do not realise their ad- 
vantages, and partly because it is rather hard to get a good 
pattern. If the winter combinations are woollen, a vest is 
unnecessary, but if of cotton, including flannelette, a vest is 
needed. The combination pattern given in Miss Synge's book 
makes a sleeping-suit also, if the legs be cut longer. Skirts 
and dresses should fasten in front, so that the child has no 
need to ask its mother to fasten them. The kimono pattern 
is simplest, and can be used for a frock, overall, pinafore, 
blouse or nightgown. Nightgowns can be of flannelette or 
twill calico. The latter is warmer than unt willed calico and 
also stronger. Wincey, aza, viyella and flannel are also 
suitable. The actual clothing of the elementary school girl 
is often very far from conforming to these suggestions. For 
instance, Miss M. B. Synge in her. book Simple Garments for 
Children, says that they often wear a thick vest, a bunchy, 
flannelette chemise and drawers, stays, two or three petti- 
coats gathered or pleated into a band, or fastened to one, two 



CLOTHING 111 

or three bodices, a bunchy frock and a pinafore. The garments 
are of different sizes, some too big and some too small, and 
obviously the child is overburdened and movement is ham- 
pered. Most teachers are only too familiar with this diffi- 
culty in drill-lessons. The same book quotes from a recent 
report on Liverpool children by Dr. Arkle, thus : " Large 
numbers were stitched into their clothes. They wore them 
night and day. The air never got to their skins, many of 
them wore far too many clothes." 

Foot-gear. It is important to realise that the shape of the 
foot alters when placed on the ground, because the toes 
spread out and the arch flattens, so making the foot longer 
and wider. Hence the back of the boot should grip tight 
and the front of the boot should be loose. To achieve this 
we need the following conditions : (i) The boot should not 
meet when first laced up ; (2) half an inch space between 
the toes and the end of the boot ; (3) the toe well boxed-up, 
to allow for the spread of the foot ; (4) the heel moderately 
low, because if high, the line through the centre of gravity of 
the body falls far forward on the foot and this strains the 
ligaments. People who say they need high heels usually 
have weak insteps and need instep-pads. (5) The inside edge 
of the boot should be nearly straight. Most babies' shoes 
have no " rights and lefts " and this is quite wrong. Shaped 
right and left shoes (called the " Nature-formed " shoes) can 
be bought. Connection between feet and respiratory system. 
Wet feet mean chills, often leading to colds, bronchitis, 
congestion of lungs, etc., and so predisposing to consumption. 
Hence the importance of stout foot -covering. Stockings. 
From the point of view of cost the home-knitted stocking is 
ir the cheaper in the long run. It is common now to buy 
the stockings which one can get for a few pence, wear them 
ito rags and then fling them away, with no mending. A 
lome-knitted stocking will give warmth, stand re-footing, and 
in the end be far the cheaper, as well as being a considerable 
safeguard against colds. Before the War, the wool for a pair 
for a ten year old child cost ninepence. 

Aim in giving Lessons on Clothing. Whether these be 
given in Needlework or in Hygiene period, to girls or mothers, 



112 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

one wants to teach them to dress healthily, so that the 
clothes help instead of hindering right bodily development. 
At the same time one wants to simplify the labour of making 
and washing and to lessen the amount and cost of material. 
Hence (i) one wants to do away with the old, heavy, pleated 
patterns and combine two garments into one wherever 
possible. (2) Again, one wants the habit of buying ready- 
made garments given up, because these things are so much 
less durable, for the same amount of money spent, than are 
home-made garments, and there is so much less labour in 
making the modern, hygienic, simple garments as compared 
with the old types, that if only one can get people to try them, 
there is hope of this reform being accomplished. In this 
connection, let me recommend the patterns accompanying 
each copy of Miss Synge's book, mentioned above. Other, 
though less important, points to remember are : (3) The 
desirability of pockets. I know one head mistress of a high 
school who sends girls home if they come to school without 
pockets. (4) The need of handkerchiefs in these pockets. 
Might not children make their own handkerchiefs in school, 
during handwork or sewing lessons ? The disgusting state 
of many children, especially in winter, owing to lack of 
handkerchiefs, is too well known by all concerned in elemen- 
tary school work. (5) Cheap trimmings of lace might be re- 
placed by very simple embroidery, on the lines given in Miss 
Swanson's Educational Needlecraft and so money could be 
saved and beauty gained. (6) One wants all children to 
possess nightgowns. In poor homes they often sleep naked 
or in their day clothes. (7) Might not white pinafores be 
replaced by coloured ones with advantage ? Washing would 
be lessened and often appearance improved. In France, 
every elementary schoolgirl wears a black overall with 
sleeves, and though this may look dismal, it is more becoming 
than a dirty white pinafore. 



CHAPTER X 
CLEANLINESS 

Relation to health What can be done in school Baths The school 
medical service The Children Act. 

WE have now to consider the importance of cleanliness to the 
individual, the school, and the home, and how it may be 
achieved. The importance of the matter was alluded to in 
Chapter VIII, and statistics prove that the health of people 
living under similar conditions is highly dependent on personal 
habits. 

With regard to school children's habits, the teacher (i) 
should demand clean hands and faces as the first step, and 
should see that the children do use the washing facilities 
provided in school. Only a week or two ago a friend of mine 
went into a boys' class where many of the boys were sitting 
idle because they had dirty hands and so the teacher wouldn't 
let them do their work. Why weren't they sent to wash ? 
My own experience is that there are none too many basins in 
school lavatories, and hardly ever more than two towels, put 
clean once a week, when there should be one towel per basin, 
put clean daily, but what is most irritating is that so many 
schools seem to regard the basins as ornamental only. Soap 
is non-existent, the reason given being usually that children 
steal it. Now, that may be so, but the remedy surely is to 
get a proper supply and watch it, if necessary. In the hand- 
book issued by the Committee on the Health of Munition 
Workers there are some suggestions which are very applicable 
to school conditions ; e.g. (a) hot water as well as cold in 
lavatory basins, (b) Nail brushes. These can be large and 
fixed, to stop theft, the hand being rubbed on the brush, or 
the brush can be chained, (c) Soap can be supplied " soft," 

8 113 



114 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

in small, locked boxes above the basins, with a hole in the 
top, through which a finger can be inserted and so the soap 
scooped out. Soap can be bought as powder, which sets to a 
jelly on the addition of water, from Lever Bros., Port Sunlight, 
Cheshire. This lessens the cost of carriage. Or the powder 
can be put in a dredger chained to the trough or basin. A 
teacher or other supervisor should be on cloak-room duty 
at play-time and before and after school, whilst children are 
coming and going, in order to teach children, especially 
infants, how to wash, e.g. not to wipe off all the dirt in the 
towels. Further, a competent person should be in charge of 
the closets and should see that they are used properly, and 
that children needing help get it. (2) Hair brushed is another 
demand that the teacher can legitimately make, and she 
should do her best to get girls to wear it plaited or short, as 
there is then much less risk of vermin. (3) She should do her 
best to impress on parents and children the need of a weekly 
warm bath, including hair, and of weekly clean under- 
clothes. The home-bath, however, is a great difficulty in 
families living in perhaps one or two rooms, with no kitchen- 
range or boiler, and more, and more opinion is growing to 
favour the undertaking of the bath by the school, and a good 
many schools have bath installations, especially the " open 
air " and other " special " schools, though England is a 
good deal behind Continental countries in this provision of 
baths. 

A few School Swimming Baths have existed for some 
time, and elementary schools often make arrangements with 
public swimming baths whereby classes can have the use of the 
baths at special times ; e.g. good school swimming baths 
may be seen at Bradford, where they are attached to a school, 
but serve as centres for neighbouring schools. The children 
go to the baths in batches of twenty to thirty. Dr. Crowley, 
in his Hygiene of School Life, says that the following points 
should be attended to : 

1. There should be a dressing-box pei child. 

2. Each child should wash under a shower before entering, 
or, at least, the feet should be washed in a trough provided 
for this purpose. 



CLEANLINESS 115 

3. No children should be allowed to stand shivering on the 
edge, and definite instruction in swimming, diving, etc., 
should be given. 

4. After coming out, each child should have a short, quick, 
cold shower, and then rub down and dress quickly. 

5. Girls should wear caps, and if the hair get wet, it should 
be carefully dried. 

6. A brisk run round the playground should be taken after 
the bath, if weather permit. 

7. A teacher should accompany each group. 

8. There should be a bath-attendant. 

9. Objections may come from parents or children, though 
chiefly from the former, who are given, for example, to putting 
down every little cold the child catches to the account of the 
swimming and there may be some ground for this if children 
come back cold, and not properly dried or dressed. 

A swimming bath may be looked on as giving excellent 
physical exercise, but not as a cleansing agent, directly, at 
any rate. Indirectly it may so act, in virtue of the fact that 
one can train children to feel ashamed of exhibiting dirty 
bodies in public, and so may educate them into washing 
before they use the swimming bath. At present, however, 
the filthy state of the water in many of our public baths 
testifies to the fact that the users treat them as a cleansing 
agent . All sorts of devices have been introduced for remedying 
this state of affairs, e.g. blowing the scum off the surface, 
dragging the scum off the surface, adding disinfectant to the 
water, and so on ; but the remedy is to have shower baths 
and soap provided in the same building and to insist on dirty 
children washing before going into the swimming bath. The 
best temperature is 70 F. A child should not go into a 
swimming bath till two hours after a meal, nor if cold or 
exhausted. No child should be allowed in if he or she is cold 
and numb for long after the bath. Children tend to stay in 
too long, and time must therefore be checked. 

Shower Baths. These are the best kind of bath from the 
cleansing point of view, and this is the type that one is 
particularly anxious to see installed in the elementary schools. 
The swimming bath is desirable, but comparatively a luxury. 



116 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

The shower bath is preferable to any form of tub bath because 
(i) no time need be spent in filling and emptying, (2) there 
is no risk of contagion, (3) it uses less water than any other 
pattern, (4) there is no cleaning out, etc., to occupy the 
caretaker's time. The water is sometimes controlled by the 
child and sometimes by the attendant. The temperature is 
variable in some cases, beginning warm and ending cold ; in 
other cases it is wholly warm, but in any case the temperature 
is controlled by the attendant. In America some schools 
have very fine shower baths. It is desirable to have con- 
siderably more dressing-closets than baths, since this very 
greatly quickens the rate at which the children can bath ; 
e.g. it is found that with ten baths and thirty dressing- 
closets, one hundred and twenty-five children can bath daily, 
each taking three minutes under the bath. A bath period is 
allotted to each class. In old-established schools, a central 
group can be made to serve several schools. 

Results of Baths : (i) Better health, especially in the 
matter of skin disease ; (2) therefore better attendance ; (3) 
therefore better intellectual results from school work; (4) 
pleasanter atmosphere in class-room ; (5) increased self- 
respect ; (6) a good influence on the home, showing itself 
in cleaner clothing, for example ; (7) the formation of a 
lifelong habit of cleanliness. 

In one school in Chicago a tub and wash-bowl with hot 
and cold water has been fitted up in one small room. Soap 
and towels are provided. If the child comes to school dirty, 
the parent is sent for, the child's condition discussed and she 
is then asked to wash the child on the spot. Thus the parent 
gets an object-lesson in cleanliness, and the effect on the 
homes is said to be excellent. 

Lessons and Inspections. In addition to the actual wash- 
ing of dirty children, the school can give set lessons on cleanli- 
ness, and in this connection all girls should be taught exactly 
what to do to get rid of vermin. A good many teachers are 
shy about the matter, but there is no need, if the instruction be 
given naturally and simply, putting it in the light that anyone, 
however clean, may have the ill-luck to pick up vermin from 
dirty people and that then one ought to know what to do. 




.1 

I 

<u 5: 

w 



H | 

ta 



CQ 



118 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

The staff can also do a great deal by systematic inspection 
and by enthusiasm for cleanliness. In this connection I 
should like to describe the procedure at one school where the 
results achieved have been so excellent that the method 
adopted was described in the Report of the Chief Medical 
Officer of the Board of Education for 1913. The school is 
the Hughes Fields Girls' Council School, Greenwich, in a 
very poor part of Deptford, and at one time the condition of 
the children was so trying to the teachers that the latter 
were constantly absent through illness, supply teachers 
refused to stay more than a few days and the attendance 
was often so low as sixty to seventy per cent for the 
year. Then a new regime was instituted, the keynote of 
which was the teaching of hygienic habits by constant super- 
vision and by making all the Hygiene lessons practical in 
character, (a) The two top classes get two Hygiene lessons 
per week. A lesson lasts half an hour and always contains 
some practical demonstration such as washing and dressing a 
doll, preparing a baby's food, or cleaning the house. These 
lessons are repeated till nearly every girl has had the chance 
of using the simple apparatus employed. Younger girls have 
occasional health talks but no set lessons. 

(b) Inspection by the Staff. The head mistress stands on 
the stairs as the children come up at each session and any 
seen to be dirty or with unbrushed hair are either sent home, 
or to the lavatory, after registration. Directly after registra- 
tion, the head mistress goes to the lavatory with a monitress 
and superintends the use of the basins and towels, seeing that 
they are left clean and neat. Hence she goes to the cloak- 
room, and if any untidy or really dirty hats and coats are 
there, they are dealt with. Next comes class-room inspection, 
i.e. seeing that windows are open and everything clean. 
Twice a week the sanitary conveniences are fully inspected 
by the head mistress. The staff undertake (i) daily hair- 
inspection, by making all girls stand with backs towards the 
teacher, who passes down between the desks, looking at each 
child. The hair must show signs of having been brushed 
and combed and must be plaited ; if any have nits, they are 
sent to the lavatory under the charge of a senior girl, and 



CLEANLINESS 119 

sometimes the head mistress goes herself. This recurs daily 
till satisfactory results are obtained. (2) Hand-inspection. 
This is taken before each writing-lesson ; on the command 
" hand-inspection," hands are placed on desks and then as 
the teacher passes down they are reversed, and if unsatis- 
factory a basin with soap and towel have to be used in the 
class-room, as the penalty, before the other children. (3) 
Every week enquiry is made as to who has slept with open 
window, and the few who do not do so, after the third or 
fourth enquiry, are talked to separately by the teacher. 
(4) The time at which each child went to bed is enquired into 
weekly. (5) Boot, stocking and handkerchief inspection is 
taken before each drill-lesson. (6) Tooth inspection occurs 
weekly, in connection with tooth-brush drill, and once a term 
each child brings to school the rag or brush she uses. 

(c) Practical work done by the children can be divided into 
(a) Monitorial work, which is worked out so that each gets a 
turn ; (b) Hygienic drill, (i) Thursdays, tooth-brush drill 
for juniors ; Friday for seniors, acted in dumb-show with an 
imaginary piece of rag or brush, imaginary water, soap, cup 
and basin. Conducted thus : " Ready " children stand. 
" Fill your cups " this acted, with left hand for cup. " Take 
your rag." Imaginary piece wrapped round first finger of 
right hand. " Dip your rag." " Now take a little soap," and 
action of rubbing rag on soap is done. " Now clean outside 
the teeth," and the finger makes the movements just outside 
the cheek. " Now wet the rag" " Now take a little more 
soap." " Now clean the crowns," and then follows the inside. 
" Now wash and squeeze the rag." " Now throw the water 
away." " Now take some fresh water." " Now rinse the mouth. " 
" Now put rag and cup away." This is followed by enquiry as 
to those who have carried this out. (2) Once a week nail- 
trimming drill is taken in the upper standards ; paper is put 
on the desk and the girls bring scissors if possible. (3) Hand- 
kerchief drill is taken before each drill-lessonwhen each girl 
holds up her handkerchief by its corners. Squares of linen are 
provided in special cases. (4) In addition, children do or see 
certain " extras " e.g. each makes, usually from list, a pair of 
slippers for use in Physical Exercise lessons, and it has been- 



120 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

found to almost abolish holes in stockings. Sometimes a 
model mother brings her baby to school and baths it. 

Results. Attendance now averages ninety-two per cent. 
The staff is no longer absent frequently on sick leave, or 
wanting to get fresh posts. The children bear the closest 
inspection and make normal progress. Taking the school as 
a whole, the effect is well seen in passing from the lowest to 
the highest class. The lowest starts with dirty teeth, bitten 
nails, unkempt hair and untidy clothes, whereas the highest 
has clean teeth, properly kept hands and hair and neatly 
mended clothes. The happy and healthy look of the children 
make it hard to believe that this is a school of " special 
difficulty." The children obviously love the school and 
teachers no longer avoid it. 

The above is only a sample of the work that can be done 
and is done in many schools, but one cannot rely entirely on 
the teachers to remedy uncleanliness. The other agencies 
are the School Medical Service, including school doctor, 
nurse and clinic, and the Law, embodied in the Children Act 
of 1908. Most authorities who have employed school nurses 
use them, more or less, for detecting and following up 
verminous children. They should aim not only at se- 
curing cleanliness, but at maintaining it by frequent visits 
and re-examination. Again, it is of no use to rely on 
routine inspection of certain age-groups for the improvement 
of uncleanliness. Special inspection twice a year of every 
child and prompt following-up are needed. " The ' surprise ' 
surveys by the nurses are often of more value in discovering 
the real extent of the condition than are the visits by the 
Medical Officer for routine inspection. The actual cleansing 
is carried out by the school nurse in the schools, at the home, 
at the school clinic, or at a cleansing station." (Report for 
1914 of the Chief Medical Officer of the Board of Education.) 
In London, a very complete cleansing scheme exists, which 
has served as a model to other authorities. There are twenty- 
four cleansing stations, each serving an area of approximately 
one mile radius, and 41,458 cleansings took place at them in 
1913, and 42,557 in 1914. Twenty of these also deal with 
scabies or itch. These stations are part of the " medical 



CLEANLINESS 121 

treatment " of children and provide facilities for cleansing 
heads and bodies and disinfecting clothes. Sometimes the 
Sanitary Authority provides them, or, if not, the Education 
Authority sometimes provides them in the school clinics, or 
elsewhere. 

The Children Act provides that if a child is found to be 
verminous by the Medical Officer or any person to whom he 
delegates authority to examine the child, notice can be sent 
to the parent requiring him or her to cleanse the child in 
twenty-four hours. If the parent does not comply, the child 
can be removed from school and cleansed in suitable premises. 
If the parent again lets the child get verminous he is liable 
to a fine not exceeding los. The Education Authority must 
give the parent written instructions for cleansing. During 
1912, in London, 670 parents were fined amounts varying 
from is. to ios., with 2s. costs. In 1914, 378 parents were 
fined. The local Medical Officer of Health is informed of 
every case of vermin, unless remedied by the parents at once, 
in order that there might be co-operation between the 
Authority responsible for cleanliness in the home and that 
responsible for cleanliness in school, it being useless to cleanse 
a child if the clothing, bedding, etc., in the home are filthy. 
Hence the local Medical Officers for Health in most districts 
arrange for the houses to be visited and for cleansing and dis- 
infection if necessary. However, resource to the Children 
Act needs judicious handling, and in most districts an occa- 
sional prosecution is all that is necessary or wise. In 1914, 
only ten local Education Authorities prosecuted parents under 
this section of the Children Act. Some Authorities say that 
the Proceedings under the Act are so complicated and full of 
legal pitfalls that no use has been made of the measure. 
Again, no action can be taken under the Act unless cleansing 
stations are provided. Ten other Authorities have acted in 
conjunction with the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to 
Children. Some Authorities take action in this matter under 
the School Attendance bye-laws. The child is excluded 

trom school owing to its dirty or verminous condition, 
nd if this is not remedied quickly proceedings are 
aken against the parent for the child's absence from 



122 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

school. An important lever in impressing on parents the 
need for cleanliness is the fact that the state of the head is 
one of the points to which the certifying Factory Surgeon is 
directed to attend in giving a certificate of fitness for employ- 
ment in a factory. 

Results. It is nowadays rare to find the grosser states of 
uncleanliness which were prevalent a few years ago but much 
remains to be done. Educative work in the homes is attempted 
by distributing leaflets among parents and children, and by 
visits of nurses and members of Care Committees. A number 
of Authorities issue instructions for getting rid of nits and 
urge wearing the hair short. Teachers and children should 
be warned that one source of contagion is the placing of hats 
one over the other in the cloak-rooms of schools. 



CHAPTER XI 
THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 

General function and structure of brain, spinal cord and nerves 
Reflex action Development of the nervous system Centres for 
speech and writing Word-deafness Word-blindness Charac- 
teristics of child's nervous system Sleep, 

General Function. To govern and control the whole body 
and mind, so that all parts work harmoniously with one 
another. 

Structure. The Nervous System consists of three parts : 
Brain, Spinal Cord and Nerves. These, like all other parts 
of the body, are built up of cells, and though these cells are 
highly specialised, they live in the same way as do all other 
cells, i.e. they absorb oxygen and food, build up new tissue, 
excrete waste, and their health depends on the circulation 
and quality of the blood, which again depends largely on 
good food and fresh air. Hence these factors largely influence 
mental power and state of mind. The chief difference between 
nerve-cells and other cells is the elongation of the protoplasm 
of the former into many short branching fibres, and one 
longer fibre. The short ones are called dendrites, and though 
they do not actually fuse with those from neighbouring cells, 
they lie in very close contact with them and probably serve 
to transmit nervous energy from cell to cell, to some extent. 
The single, longer fibre is called a nerve-fibre or axon, and it 
is covered with a sheath of white fat which insulates it from 
other fibres. It has a few lateral branches, and both it and 
its branches end in tiny bunches of fibrils in the muscles or 
some sense organ. What we call a nerve is a bundle of such 

123 






124 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

fibres, held together by connective tissue. Some nerve- 
fibres are very long others are very short. Nerve-cells are 
grey in colour. In the brain, the outer part is grey, because 




Dendnte 



Fig. 51. Diagram of nerve-cell 

built up of cells, and the inner part white, because built of 
fibres, running from cell to cell, or from cells to spinal cord, 
etc. In the spinal cord the colours are reversed, because the 
cells are inside and the fibres outside. 

Functions of Nerve -cells and Fibres. The cells are 
makers and storers of energy, which they use in two ways : (i) 
They may receive nervous impulses travelling inwards along 
their fibres from muscles or sense-organs and translate these 
into conscious sensations. These are therefore called Sensory 
Cells. (2) They may send out nervous energy, or impulses, 
along their fibres to the muscles or glands ; these cells are 
therefore called motor. The function of the nerve is to transmit 
energy, just as a telegraph wire transmits electricity. If it 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 125 

conveys energy to a nerve-cell it is called afferent (Lat. a=to ; 
fero = l carry) or sensory. If it conveys energy from a nerve- 
cell it is called efferent or motor. Certain nerve-fibres serve 
to connect different nerve-cells in the brain, and are there- 
fore called association-fibres, or intercalary fibres, and by 
virtue of these and the dendrites, stimuli can pass from one 
cell to another, i.e. conditions affecting one part of the body 
may, through a chain of connecting nerves and cells, produce 
responses in other parts. Thus a pin-prick or an unpleasant 
object seen or tasted, or a sound heard, may all cause the 
same muscle to contract, e.g. those of the face, causing a 
grimace, i.e. a group of motor nerve-cells controlling certain 
muscles can be excited from several sensory centres. Con- 
versely, a stimulus passing inwards along one sensory nerve 
may spread itself out over several motor nerve-centres, e.g. 
a pin-prick may result in a cry, a grimace, and a sharp with- 
drawal of the finger pricked. 

The Brain is enclosed by the skull, and is covered by three 
membranes : the dura mater, the arachnoid and the pia 
mater. The pia mater brings blood to the brain, and between 
it and the middle membrane is fluid, acting as a buffer to 
protect the brain from jarring against the skull. The brain 
has three divisions : Cerebrum, Cerebellum and Medulla. Its 
surface is flung into folds andiidges called convolutions, these 
being deeper and finer in the cerebellum. They are due to 
our mental growth, to knowledge gained, etc., and therefore 
the value of a brain depends on the number of its convolutions. 
There are few in children, idiots and savages, and none in the 
lower animals, such as reptiles. 

Functions of the Cerebrum. This is the part of the brain 
concerned with all the higher mental processes, such as 
thought, imagination, memory, will. It contains motor and 
sensory areas corresponding to and controlling every conscious 
activity, including those of the special senses (of Sight, 
Hearing, Tasting, Feeling, Smelling). Some of these centres 
have been located ; others have not yet been " placed." The 
cerebrum can also control (or inhibit) wholly or partly the 
action of the centres in the spinal cord. We will return to 
this matter later. Since the cerebrum is the organ of con- 






126 



A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 



sciousness, any accident to it means partial or total uncon- 
sciousness. 

Functions of the Cerebellum. To control the balance of 
the body and keep it in the correct attitudes. It works 
automatically, i.e. involuntarily, though in cases of great 
difficulty, such as tight rope . walking, the conscious brain 
may help. The ear plays a special part here. The semi- 
circular canals in the ear contain fluid in which hang the 



Skull 



Ours Mater 
Cerebral hemisphere 

CorpusCallosum 



Olfactory 
lobe end filaments 




<* Arbor If/fat 



Fig-. 52. Section of head, showing- brain, etc. 

ends of nerves running to the cerebellum, and not concerned 
with hearing, but only with balance ; e.g. if these canals are 
injured we become giddy. 

Functions of the Medulla. To control the organic life- 
processes. It is connected by nerves (the tenth pair of 
cranial nerves, i.e. the vagus nerves) with all the blood- 
vessels and internal organs. It is not controlled by the 
cerebrum, with the exception of one centre, the breathing 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 



127 



centre, which can be partly inhibited. However, there is 
some sort of connection with the cerebrum, for conscious 
states of emotion, etc., do affect the beating of the heart, 
circulation, breathing, etc. Injury to the medulla probably 
means death. 

The control of organic functions is also partly effected by 
the Sympathetic Nervous System, consisting of two grey cords 
lying in front of the backbone and giving off nerves which 
join the spinal nerves and form a complicated network run- 
ning to the internal organs. 

Structure and Functions of the Spinal Cord. Here, as 
in the brain, the cells are grouped into motor and sensory 




Fig-. 53. Nerves* 
(From Jewett's Control of Body and Mind. Ginn and Co.) 



128 



A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 



centres, and they give off fibres which constitute thirty-one 
pairs of " spinal " nerves. They give off other fibres which 
run up the cord to the cerebrum. Hence, though the spinal 
centres govern the movements of practically all muscles 
except those of the head, yet they are themselves ruled, 
more or less, by the higher centres in the brain. Conse- 
quently, an impulse entering the cord by a sensory nerve may 
stimulate (i) the cord centre ; (2) higher centres, and so we 




c 
Sensory 

Surface 



Fig-. 54. Diagram illustrating- reflex action 

(Adapted from Thornton's Elementary Practical Physiology') 

get Inhibition, e.g. if you tread on a tin-tack your first impulse 
is to jerk your foot away, but you can restrain this impulse by 
the exercise of will-power. Similarly one can restrain, or 
inhibit, coughing, blinking, fidgeting; etc., and good manners 
largely consist in the exercise of this inhibitory power of the 
conscious brain over instinctive actions. In some people 
the connections between the brain and cord are poorly 
developed, and then the control of the conscious brain over 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 129 

the cord decreases or ceases. In other cases, e.g. sleep, the 
conscious brain is out of action and so cannot control the 
cord ; e.g. tickle the soles of a sleeping person, and the leg is 
jerked up unconsciously. When awake, the person can, if he 
likes, resist the desire to jerk his foot away. 

Reflex Action. Actions performed solely on the initiative 
of the cord are involuntary and are called simple reflex 
actions. Not all reflexes are as simple as the one described 
above ; e.g. swimmmg involves concerted action of many 
groups of muscles, and this co-ordination is learned, not 
instinctive, and hence this class of reflexes is often called 
habitual or acquired. When learned, these actions do not 
need conscious thought, but are controlled solely by the 
cord, but during the learning process they do involve thought 
and therefore are not reflex. The explanation of the change 
is that constant repetition of an action wears a path in the 
cord, and finally the impulses cease to go to the brain and so 
the action becomes a habit. Habits have been defined as the 
memory of the lower centres. They differ from instincts in 
that the latter are " born," whilst the former are " made," 
but instinctive actions are, of course, reflex, e.g. sucking in a 
baby. 

Development of the Nervous System. Like all other 
parts of the body, the Nervous System is imperfect at birth 
in size, weight and power. All the cells are present, but many 
have no dendrites or fibres and are therefore incapable of 
work. Increase in size and weight is some indication of 
increase in power, but the increases are not proportional. 
Thus maximum weight is attained at fifteen years old, but 
certainly not full power. In general, however, there is a 
connection between size of brain and intellectuality, e.g. an 
idiot brain is always light and nearly always very small, 
never weighing more than 23 oz. in an " out-and-out " idiot, 
whereas the average weight of a normal brain is 50 oz. An 
anthropoid ape has one-third the brain-weight of man. 
Civilised races have larger and heavier brains than un- 
civilised peoples. A skull which is less than eighteen inches 
in circumference above the ears usually indicates mental 
defect, the normal size being twenty-one inches or more, 
9 



130 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

from eight years old. The increase in weight and convolu- 
tions is specially rapid up to seven years old, and probably 
the Jesuits are right in saying that given a child till seven 
years old, you can do what you like to it after. Brain power 
develops rapidly up to twenty-five years of age, and at a 
slower rate up to forty, i.e. development goes on longer than 
in any other part of the body. What happens after forty 
depends, I believe, on how the brain is used. Its power may 
go on increasing, or may become stationary, or may slowly 
decrease. It certainly will decrease if the mind be allowed 
to stagnate. 

The increase is due to the growth of nerve-fibres which 
gives increased control over body and mind. Where these 
fibres are rudimentary or non-existent, control is impossible ; 
where they are only partly developed, activities are clumsy 
and awkward ; it is only where they form definite, fixed 
connections that activities go on easily and quickly. 

Like all other parts of the body the Nervous System 
depends for its health and growth on observance of the 
general conditions for healthy living, viz. on good nutrition, 
fresh air, sufficient warmth, cleanliness, exercise of both 
body and mind, followed by sufficient rest but there are 
some further points involved. (T) For instance, it is im- 
portant for the teacher to remember that the centres do not 
all begin to develop simultaneous^ ; each has its own natural 
period of development. Some are almost perfect at birth, 
e.g. those governing vital actions, such as breathing, digestion, 
etc. Others lie dormant for years, and then may develop 
quickly or slowly. The result is that the child exhibits a 
series of spontaneous impulses to do different things, a series 
of spontaneous interests in various objects and subjects, and 
these instinctive tendencies appear at different periods. You 
will get the clearest exhibition of the child's instincts by 
watching him at play, for in play he shows all his interests, 
likes, dislikes, characteristics and powers, and it is an essential 
of good education to watch for the emergence of these in- 
stincts and to provide for their right guidance, for associated 
with every natural tendency is a great stream of energy 
needing outlet, and if we suppress this energy it may flow 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 131 

into wrong channels, with results disastrous to mental health- 
producing morbidities, neuroses such as hysteria, sexual 
abnormalities, etc., in later life. Hence we must provide an 
outlet for this energy, but not necessarily along the lines 
which it would take if the child were simply left to himself. 
Take, for instance, the pugnacious or fighting instinct which 
becomes so marked at a certain age in a boy. We cannot 
always allow this instinct to express itself in its primary 
form, since to do so would mean moral injury to the owner 
and possibly to his antagonist, especiaUy if smaller and 
weaker but we can sublimate the boy's pugnacity, i.e. turn 
it from selfish aims -to battle for the honour of his side, team 
or house in organised games, and when he reaches adolescence 
we can provide further outlet by taking good care that he 
knows how much the world needs fighters in the great war of 
Right against Wrong. This is the age at which h;s interests 
naturally widen out to include " a world lying beyond the 
limits of the immediate surroundings " ; hence now he is far 
more able to respond to that world's call for " service that 
gives meaning to life, that sweeps a person out of himself and 
makes him one with the purpose of God, for whom he vaguely 
longs." It is our business to give him chances of serving ; 
we shall thus be doing our best to save him from selfish 
individualism and over-introspection and to turn him into 
a good citizen of the world. 

Again, the instinct of curiosity becomes pronounced at a 
very early age ; the little child, almost as soon as it can talk, 
begins to ask questions about everything and anything, and 
to investigate everything it can lay hands on. This stage is 
undoubtedly somewhat trying for the adult in charge, but 
the right way of dealing with it is to provide plenty of objects 
and materials on which the child can try its experiments 
without doing any harm, so gaining very valuable practical 
experience and to answer its questions truthfully, as far as 
the child can grasp the matter, and in words which it can 
understand. Do not put it off with untruths, for the tiny 
child has a remarkable power of detecting untruth, and its 
confidence in the reliability of grown-ups will thereby be 
shaken, and this is undesirable in the extreme, especially 



132 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

where parents are concerned. We want the child to come 
to the parents for guidance about all the great things of life ; 
hence its belief in the parents should not be shaken, or it will 
turn to other and often less desirable sources of information. 
Take, for example, the questions which almost all little 
children ask about where the new baby came from. The old 
false answers about storks and doctors never satisfy or deceive 
it, and it turns to servants or school-fellows or others far less 
fit to answer its questions than the parents should be, and 
too often it gets the required information in a false and in- 
complete and distorted shape which affects its attitude 
towards the facts of reproduction throughout life. Thus, it 
is bound to conclude that sex and reproduction are somehow 
disgraceful and so we let a matter which should be clothed 
with high ideals and spiritual beauty go dressed in the rags 
of vulgarity and untruth, and we need only look at the world 
as it is to see the harm thus done. 

Again, the social instinct, when it appears, should be 
allowed expression by giving plenty of opportunities of 
healthy friendships between boys and girls ; if repressed we 
run the risk of making a morbid, introspective, socially useless 
individual. 

Thus a large part of mental hygiene consists in providing 
abundant scope for outlet of instinctive energies, through 
games, hobbies, friendships, social service, etc. As Mr. 
Edmond Holmes says, in What is and What Might 
Be: "The victim of a repressive, growth-arresting type of 
education, having few if any interests in life, not infre- 
quently takes to the meretricious excitements of sensuality 
in order to relieve the intolerable monotony of his days. 
But the training which makes for many-sided growth, by 
filling the life of the adolescent with many and varied interests, 
removes temptations of this type." On the other hand, we 
must avoid the pitfall of trying to " force " development. It is 
harmful to try to educate a centre before its natural period 
of growth has been reached, e.g. pne may set children to do 
fine work before their hands or eyes are ready, and so they 
are clumsy and awkward at it ; thus permanent damage 
may be done to the Nervous System and the general health 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 133 

and development of brain and body may suffer in conse- 
quence. Again, a mother may begin to teach the child to 
walk and talk too early, i.e. before he has shown that he 
wants to learn. Yet training can be put off too long, for 
skill cannot be acquired easily when the natural period of 
growth is over : this is the reason for the demand that the 
education in speech of the deaf and dumb should begin 
before seven, the age fixed by present regulations. 

(2) Another important factor in mental development is 
Example. The child imitates with great ease and accuracy, 
and the first patterns are the parents ; the child longs to be 
grown-up and it thinks that to do as father and mother do 
is the shortest cut to the desired end. Later it imitates 
other people with whom it comes in contact in real life, in 
books, in cinemas, etc. Hence the need that parents and 
teachers should walk warily, knowing that inevitably they 
will stamp the child with some likeness to themselves, and 
further that they should give him what is worth while in 
literature, art and amusement. 

(3) Another factor in mental development is the formation 
of good habits. The nature of habit has already been des- 
cribed in connection with Reflex action. The essential points 
to grasp are : (i) That when a habit is once fixed intelligence 
is only needed to start the movement, which then proceeds 
automatically, with the result that the intelligence is left 
free to deal with more complex matters ; and this is of great 
value, for, as one writer puts it, "If everything we did and 
thought were as difficult as the first time we practised it, 
mankind would have made no progress from the lowest 
savagery." (2) That a habit is much easier to make than to 
break. Hence the more good habits we can teach the child 
the better for its mental growth but the bad habit may cause 
much suffering either to the victim or to those around him. 

Development of Centres for Speech and Writing. These 
are of special interest to the teacher and so may be discussed 
in rather more detail. The four centres involved are sub- 
departments of four larger centres on the left side of the 
brain, except in left-handed people. The four larger centres 
are the Auditory and Visual centres (sensory) and the centres 




134 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

for the right arm and for motion of lips and tongue (motor). 
The two last-mentioned centres are already developed at 
birth, and the two first centres develop within a few days of 
birth. Soon the four subsidiary centres develop, viz. : (i) the 
auditory-word centre in connection with the hearing centre ; 
(2) the motor-speech centre in connection with the centre 
for motion of the lips and tongue ; (3) the visual word centre 
in connection with the visual centre ; (4) the writing centre 
in connection with the hand and arm centre. In time, all 
these centres connect up, via association fibres and dendrites, 
so that impulses can be transferred from one centre to another. 
When these centres have developed and linked the child can 
speak and write words which he hears (dictation) or sees 
(transcription) . 

Order of Development, (i) The auditory-word centre 
develops first, i.e. the child can hear words as distinct from 
other sounds. Next, he associates words with ideas, because 
the auditory-word centre connects up with other parts of 
the brain which store up impressions. (2) The motor-word 
centre develops and connects up with the auditory-word 
centre, and now the child can imitate the sounds heard. 
The visual centre connects up with the motor-word centre 
and with the part of the brain where impressions are stored, 
and so, on seeing a dog, the memory of the word representing 
the animal is called up and the child says it. (3) At this stage 
he goes to school and the last two centres develop there, 
connecting up with each other and with the two first centres. 
The teacher must remember that these centres can only 
develop slowly. Hence the child cannot write before the 
writing-centre develops, or read before the visual-word centre 
develops, or write from dictation before the auditory-word 
and writing centres have linked. 

Word -deaf ness, in which the child cannot understand or 
remember what he is told, does not recognise his own name, 
etc., is due to the absence of the auditory-word centre. The 
child may be erroneously classed as deaf or imbecile. Fortu- 
nately the condition is very rare. 

Word -blindness, in which the child cannot recognise 
letters or words and therefore cannot read and writes rubbish, 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 

is due to the absence of the visual-word centre. It is com- 
moner than word-deafness, Dr. C. J. Thomas estimating that i 
in 1000 Elementary School Children show this defect, and they 
are likely to be sent to schools for the mentally defective, e.g. 
Dr. Thomas states that out of 30 cases examined in such a 
school, 4 were cases of pure word-blindness only. Word-blind- 
ness may occur in later life, as a result of disease. The child 
can draw and recognise pictures, and therefore can write from 
transcription, but not from dictation, because the sound 
does not produce any mental picture of the word. Dr. Kerr, 
in his School Hygiene, states that letter-blindness is much rarer 
than word-blindness, because the child usually learns letters 
as a muscular memory ; also that Arabic numbers and all 
combinations of figures are generally well recognised, and 
that the word-blind can nearly always write their own name 
correctly because it is the equivalent, to them, of a single sign. 

Characteristics of the Child's Nervous System, (i) The 
chief characteristic is instability, due to the fact that the 
child's nervous system is still immature and growing. Hence 
it easily tires. There is very little reserve of nervous energy, 
because growth makes great demands on it ; hence what 
there is is quickly exhausted. Yet mental activity is neces- 
sary because it brings a greater flow of blood to the brain, 
removes waste faster and therefore promotes growth. The 
thing to remember is to stop short of overstrain. Hence one 
needs a carefully constructed time-table with the right length 
and sequence of lesson. It has been calculated that the times 
for which a child can fix its attention are as follows : From 
6 to 9 years old for 15 to 20 minutes ; from 9 to 12 years old 
from 25 to 30 minutes ; from 12 to 14 years old for 35 to 40 
minutes ; 15 years old and over from 40 to 45 minutes. 

Puberty brings with it a period when the natural instability 
of the child's nervous system is greatly intensified, and for a 
time it may become morbid and cease to function properly. 
Girls especially need careful handling at this time, and, un- 
fortunately, this is the period when we so often send them in 
for examinations involving overstrain through cramming, 
nervous anticipation, and so on. Undoubtedly we want a 
more rational system. 




136 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

Among the child's remaining mental characteristics perhaps 
the most striking are : (2) Lack of control of emotions. (3) 
Little power to resist sensuous gratifications. (4) Spon- 
taneity, and closely connected with this (5) the difficulty of 
discipline, i.e. discipline doesn't come by nature to the child, 
though one should remember that it differs from other young 
animals in that inhibitory power is developing, and this 
makes discipline more possible and more necessary with the 
child than with any other young animal. (6) Emulation is 
pronounced, and by its means you can train the child to a 
reverence for what is right, by providing object-lessons. 
(7) Craving for approval. (8) Imitativeness which should 
be made the most of in education. (9) Curiosity, which should 
be recognised, trained and directed. 

Sleep is the cessation of conscious life, and the amount 
which a child gets is vitally important. In sleep, heart and 
breathing slow down, less blood goes to the brain and more 
to the skin, and all the organs have a recuperative rest. If 
a child has deficient sleep it cannot do good mental work and 
it tends to become nervous and neurotic. Dr. Kerr states 
that one night's loss of sleep can be detected by psychological 
tests for nearly a week, though the sufferer may be quite un- 
conscious of it, and that in observations on young animals, 
total loss of sleep seemed more important than loss of food. 
Hence one of the outstanding objections to half-time labour 
and to work out of school-hours. 

Quality of Sleep. Sleep is deepest and most refreshing 
during the first two or three hours. Then follows a period of 
shallow sleep in which external impressions have most effect 
and when, therefore, we get most dreams, these being largely 
due to external stimuli. Finally we get a period of deep 
sleep just before waking. To get the right kind of sleep 
various conditions are wanted, the chief being : 

1. Fresh air. 

2. Quiet. Though we are unconscious in sleep, a sub- 
conscious knowledge of external impressions exists, and 
therefore sleep in a noisy room is less refreshing than in a 
quiet one. 

3. Sufficient but not too much warmth. The bed-clothes 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 137 

should be moderate in weight and amount, and the tempera- 
ture of the air should not be over 60 F. 

4. Darkness. Hence the evil of keeping the baby's cradle 
in the family living-room till the parents go to bed. " 

5. Regularity. There should be a fixed bed-time, for 
it is easy to develop a sleep-habit which is of great value in 
ensuring the right amount and kind of sleep ; it is impossible, 
however, to do this if the child goes to bed at all sorts of 
irregular times. 

Amount of Sleep. This is as a rule deficient both at home 
and in boarding-schools. Different authorities give slightly 
different amounts for various ages, but the following table 
gives a fair average : 

From 4 to 8 years old child needs 12 hours. 

8 to 12 IT 

12 to 1 4 10 

14 to 20 9 

Provision for sleep should certainly exist in all infant 
schools, instead of in a few only as is the case to-day. Some 
schools turn the little tables upside-down and sling hammocks 
from their legs ; others use hammocks in low frames or on 
trestles, and so on. Under seven years old all children 
should have at least forty minutes' sleep every afternoon, and 
they should not be allowed to sleep in their seats or leaning 
on a desk or table. It would be far better to let them lie on 
the floor, say on newspapers, but some kind of hammock is 
best. At Summer Lane School, Infants Department, they 
have composite hammocks, in which the nets are boiled 
monthly or oftener. The head mistress states that : 

The average time when sleep was general was 2.38 p.m. 
awakening 3.41 

This gives one hour as the natural sleeping period. 

Much of the success of the open-air schools is due to the 
midday rest, and Sir G. Newman, in speaking ot the Nursery 
Schools which voluntary enterprise has established already 
in some places, and which will probably be shortly established 
in many places by Education Authorities, says that the 
children should have their midday meal at school and an 



138 



A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 



after-dinner sleep of from one and a half to two hours. 
These schools are designed for children between two and 
five years old. 

Sleeplessness is often very hard to cure, but on no account 
should drugs be given. All sleeping-draughts, etc., contain 
opium, which has a particularly bad effect on children. 
Useful remedies are : 




55- Hammocks 
(From Dr. G. A. Auden's Report, 1910, to Birmingham Education Committee) 

1. A little hot food just before going to bed. 

2. A hot bottle. 

3. No work for half an hour before going to bed. 

4. Plenty of fresh air and exercise in the day-time. 
Sleeplessness is often a sign of overwork, in or out 

school, and its cure may lie in the lightening of this work. 



of 



CHAPTER XII 
MENTAL DULNESS AND DEFICIENCY 

Classification Causes Existing educational provision Character of 
education After-care Symptoms of defect Moral defects. 

SOME knowledge of the prevalence, causes, types, symptoms 
and treatment of this class of child is of very great importance, 
both for the child's own sake and for the well-being of the 
State. We are here supposed to consider only the types of 
defect which are educable, but for clearness it is well to get 
an outline classification of all the types, and a useful one is 
as follows : (i) Dull and backward. (2) Mentally defective 
or feeble-minded. (3) Imbecile. (4) Idiot. 

I. Dull and Backward. All teachers are acquainted with 
this type, for mostly they are being taught in the ordinary 
schools, where they fail very largely to profit by the instruc- 
tion given and form a constant source of annoyance and 
trouble to the teacher. The returns made by the School 
Medical Officers for various districts give numbers between 
13-6% and 0-8% of school children as belonging to this class. 
The wide variation suggests a probable lack of uniformity in 
the standards by which the children are judged. However, 
the number is undoubtedly large, and much can be done for 
them, but before considering this point one should get an 
idea of the causes of dulness and backwardness. These 
causes are many, including : (i) Rickets -these children 
often pick up at seven or eight years. (2) Adenoids causing 
deafness. (3) Eye-defect. (4) Malnutrition. (5). Illness, 
necessitating long absences from school. (6) Nomadic life 
of parents, causing absences from school. (7) Brain defect, 
usually hereditary. Now the backwardness due to causes 
(i) to (6) is curable, given suitable education and the remedy- 

139 



140 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

ing of the cause. That due to (7) is incurable. The treatment 
needed is, first, the removal of the cause if possible, e.g. 
attention to sense-defects such as deafness, short sight, etc., 
good food, removal of adenoids, etc., and then education (i) 
in special classes in the ordinary schools, with small numbers 
so as to make individual attention possible, or (2) in special 
schools of the open-air type, serving a whole town or district. 

II. Mentally Defective or Feeble -Minded. In 1908 the 
Royal Commission on Feeble-Mindedness estimated that 
one in two hundred children belong to this class, and Sir G. 
Newman's last Report to the Board of Education states 
that there are not less than thirty thousand defective 
children in England and Wales. These children are capable of 
being taught to earn a living under favourable circumstances, 
but are incapable (i) of competing on equal terms with normal 
people, and (2) of managing themselves or their affairs with 
ordinary prudence ; i.e. they need life-long supervision. 

Cause. Twenty-five out of thirty-five witnesses giving evi- 
dence to the Royal Commission attached supreme importance 
to the fact that in a very large proportion of cases there is 
a history of mental defect in parents or near ancestors . (i) 
Sir Clifford Allbutt says, " I regard feeble-mindedness as 
hereditary. . . . Feeble-minded persons are prolific ; the 
thing can only be bred out/' An instance was given of a 
feeble-minded woman who had four feeble-minded girls, all of 
whom had feeble-minded children. Descendants of the 
original woman included more than one hundred feeble- 
minded. (2) Dr. Ashby, Medical Officer to Special Schools 
at Manchester, says, "In at least seventy-five per cent 
of feeble-minded children there is strong probability 
that the disease is hereditary." He added that he had 
observed no special tendency in children of alcoholics to 
feeble-mindedness. (3) Mr. Frederic Wilkinson, Director 
of Education, Bolton, says that in almost every case 
where parents of mentally defective children appeared before 
the Committee or magistrates, the parents themselves were 
defective. (4) Sir E. Ray Lankester says, " Congenital 
feeble-mindedness is hereditary and not brought about by 
starvation or other such conditions, but is probably due to 



MENTAL DULNESS AND DEFICIENCY 141 

easy conditions of life and the absence of the selection that 
obtains amongst more primitive men." The Commissioners, 
in summing up, emphasise (i) the hereditary nature of feeble- 
mindedness ; (2) that prevention of the mentally defective 
from becoming parents would tend largely to diminish their 
number ; (3) the mentally defective should not live at large, 
but in institutions. N.B. Many feeble-minded men and 
women drift into workhouses before thirty. In maternity 
cases amongst these a tremendous number of illegitimate 
children are born. 

Existing Educational Provision for the Feeble -Minded. 
Education Authorities have provided for about 14,600 of 
the total 30,000 of such children, in the form of 185 Certified 
Schools, of which 172 are Day Schools and 13 Residential. 
The ideal is that the Residential School should be part of a 
Colony, such as Sandletridg : Home, Great Warford, Cheshire, 
so that the children may co xtinue under life-long supervision. 
Dr. Kerr says, " Only superstition prevents the permanent 
segregation, or better still sterilisation before puberty, of 
every case that requires education as feeble-minded." Prob- 
ably the cost of Colonies explains why they are so few and 
emphasises the desirability of preventing child-bearing in 
these people. Sir G. Newman estimates that forty per cent 
of feeble-minded children are fit for Special Day Schools and 
sixty per cent need Residential Schools. Hence our existing 
provision is obviously not only very inadequate, but the Day 
Schools are in much too high a proportion relatively to the 
Residential. Character of Education. (See Report of Chief 
Medical Officer of the Board of Education for 1912.) (i) The 
school should be on the outskirts of the town, so that it can 
have a large playground and be of the open-air type with 
gardening, etc., possible. Till now they have mostly been 
placed centrally, but facilities for transit are now much 
improved and largely do away with the objection to an out- 
skirt position. (2) The curriculum should provide adequate 
physical education by means of training in personal hygiene, 
games and physical exercise. Each child should have towel, 
brush and comb, and tooth-brush. Shower baths should be 
installed. A midday meal is desirable from both the physical 



142 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

and the educational points of view. Education should be very 
practical and manual, since the children show much more 
aptitude for practical pursuits than for acquiring abstract 
ideas, and physiologists hold that brain-development is 
encouraged by this means. Direct and formal intellectual 
instruction is of little use, but children should be taught 
objectively and incidentally to read, write and count if 
possible, but if they prove incapable of this it is best not to 
waste time on it. They may still succeed at handwork, but 
if this, too, is impossible, they should be dismissed from 
school. Manual work should include gardening, cooking, 
carpentry, laundry, housework, book-mending, basket-work, 
tailoring, metal-work, etc. At least half the school time 
should be given to it. From fourteen to sixteen the child 
should specialise in one form of work by which he may earn a 
living. Such manual work should be chosen as will stimulate 
faculties by securing the interest of the children. Often much 
time is given to making objects of no practical interest to 
the children, e.g. bent iron paper-racks, which could not find 
a useful place in their own homes. On the other hand, the 
making of clogs, boots, their own clothes, etc., has much 
more value as a mental stimulus, and in some special schools, 
e.g. Bristol Street, Birmingham, this principle is acted 
upon. 

After -Care of the Feeble -Minded. It is now recognised 
that this is absolutely essential. In London it is done by the 
After-Care Association for Elder Mentally Defective Children, 
founded in 1910. In most cases the teachers bear a large 
share of the work by keeping in touch with ex-pupils, en- 
couraging them to visit the schools freely, arranging evening 
socials and helping them in everyday life. Members of the 
Committee do useful work in certain schools in getting em- 
ployment for the children. Objects of the Association : To 
co-operate with parents and other agencies in getting suitable 
employment for the children leaving the schools ; to try to 
find homes for the children needing custodial care ; to keep 
in touch with children by visiting them ; to collect statistics 
of the numbers of children needing permanent supervision. 
In 1913, seventy per cent of these were employed, but the 



MENTAL DULNESS AND DEFICIENCY 143 

percentage varies widely according to whether the After-Care 
Committee is thorough or slack. 

Symptoms of Mental Defect. These may be classed as 
(i) Mental. (2) Physical. 

(1) Mental Symptoms vary greatly, but usually the child 
shows retarded development, greater in some directions than 
others, and individual peculiarities in mental powers. Thus 
attention is poor, as shown by dulness or wandering thought. 
Memory, which is closely connected with though not wholly 
dependent on attention, varies greatly. It is often possible 
to educate defectives to a daily routine, but they need constant 
supervision. Will is very little, and in this fact lies the great 
danger of letting defectives loose on the world. Association 
and ideation are poor, owing to deficiency of association-fibres 
and nerve-cells, and hence reasoning and imagination are 
weak also. Imitativeness is strong. Speech develops late 
and defects are very common ; e.g. one observer found 
defective pronunciation of one or more consonants in thirty- 
two per cent of his feeble-minded cases and " lolling " or 
substitution of consonants is common. Fortunately speech 
is very amenable to tuition, and this not only benefits the 
various brain centres, but also the wage-earning capacity in 
later life. 

(2) Physical Symptoms, (a) Defects in size or shape of head, 
the commonest being smallness and asymmetry, to the extent 
of thirty-four per cent and twenty-six per cent respectively 
in Lapage's cases, (b) Deformities of the external ear. These 
may be in one ear only, and include absent or deficient lobe, 
excessive breadth, diminished height, smallness, protusion, 
etc. ; thirty-two per cent of Lapage's cases showed ear-defect. 
(c) Deformities of palate and jaws, such as very narrow high 
palate, cleft palate and hare-lip, but here mouth-breathing 
and comforters may be the cause. Sixty-seven per cent of 
Lapage's cases showed this defect, (d) Abnormally small 
mouth and eyes, or eyes too close, (e) Abnormally small nose, 
due to insufficient growth of nasal bones. (/) Stunted 
growth. The above are often called " Physical Stigmata " or 
" Stigmata of Degeneration," and too much stress has been laid 
on them in the past. All that one can say is that if many of 



144 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

them occur in an individual, there is a strong probability that 
he is abnormal. Other physical characteristics include lack of 
control of features and movements, twitchings, etc., clumsy, 
awkward carriage, power of walking develops late, poor 
circulation and resistance to disease. 

Moral Defects. Such children have been called moral 
cripples because they are deficient in moral sense ; e.g. the 
organic stealer, liar, disobedient, mischievous. Apparently 
this is due to defect in the brain-centres which store up moral 
impressions. These cases, though capable of self-support, 
are a menace to society ; e.g. a boy, aged twelve, Standard 
III, since the age of six has been a constant thief of money 
from his parents. He covers his thefts with plausible lies, 
e.g. that the money has been snatched from his hand ; makes 
up all sorts of romances about his doings, e.g. that he has 
won prizes at school, or that he belongs to the Boy Scouts. 
He reads readily but incorrectly, calculates quickly and with 
precision, writes fairly from dictation, but omits the smaller 
words. Thus, while below the average for his age he cannot 
be termed mentally deficient. Brought up in a comfortable 
and careful home, and surrounded by good influences, there 
is yet a danger that his propensities will bring this boy into 
conflict with the forces of order. 

Treatment is difficult, though school-measures -f-home- 
measures can usually do something, but usually these children 
fail as adults. Special schools are needed, partly because 
these children must be removed from contact with others. 

The remaining two types of mental abnormality are 
ineducable and so beyond the scope of our work. They are : 
III. The Imbecile, who is incapable of earning a living but has 
the instinct of self-preservation, and needs a Residential Home, 
and IV. The Idiot, who lacks even the instinct of self-preserva- 
tion and should be in an asylum ; e.g. he will try to eat 
glowing coal. 



CHAPTER XIII 
FATIGUE (MENTAL AND PHYSICAL) 

Definition Cause Symptoms School-factors influencing fatigue 
Tests Type of child liable to mental fatigue Only one kind of 
fatigue. 

FATIGUE may be defined as the sum of the results of activity 
which show themselves in a diminished capacity for doing 
work. 

The cause of mental fatigue is the using up of the potential 
energy of the nerve-cells and the formation and accumulation 
of waste-products (toxins) in them, and the more immature 
the cell the faster does this happen. Now, since education 
involves changes in these cells, development of new connec- 
tions between them, and so on, it must involve fatigue, and 
this is as it should be. It is only continued fatigue, which is 
not easily recovered from, that is bad. 

Symptoms of Mental Fatigue, (a) Normal and transient 
yawning, lassitude, inattention, drowsiness, fidgets, slow or 
faulty response to questions or commands, (b) Continued and 
abnormal (over-pressure), (i) The position of the hand when 
held out in front at the word of command gives a useful 
indication. In normal children it is flat and in line with the 
.arm ; in nervous children it drops slightly at the wrist, and 
the fingers are arched and thumb bent back ; in exhausted 
children the whole hand droops. (2) Tell the child to hold out 
both arms in front. If not level it is a sign of fatigue % (3) 
Head balance impaired, head leaning forward or sideways. 

(4) Abnormal reflex action, such as jumping at a slight noise. 

(5) Facial signs : (a) Frontal muscles over-acting, causing 
horizontal and vertical creases in the forehead. The latter 
may be due to eye-strain, caused by long sight, (b) Relaxa- 

IQ 145 



146 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

tion of the muscle surrounding the eye, causing baggy lower 
lid. (c) Mouth open (may be due to mouth-breathing), (d) 
Expression of exhaustion. (6) Irregular muscular movements 
of the body. (7) Irritability. (8) Headache. (9) Dulness. 
(10) Inability to sleep at night, night terrors, walking in 
sleep, (n) Pale, poor appetite, digestion and circulation. 
(12) Over-pressure predisposes to chorea, hysteria, epilepsy. 

In the Elementary School chronic fatigue is rarely the 
result of school work, though not uncommon as the result of 
out-of-school work. The amount 'of fatigue due to school 
work depends not only on the amount of work, but also on the 
conditions of work, e.g. on length of lesson, arrangement of 
subjects, ventilation, light, noise, posture. The fatigue- 
values of different subjects vary for different children, but the 
usual order is : mathematics, languages, religious knowledge, 
science, nature-study, singing, writing, drawing. The most 
exacting work should come when children are fresh, i.e. at 
the beginning of the week, day and term. Two and a half 
hours is long enough for one session. Homework should 
involve revision only, and there should be none till the child 
is twelve. 

Tests of Mental Fatigue. In recent years much attention 
has been devoted to the measurement of fatigue and various 
methods have been invented. They may be divided into two 
groups: (i) Direct. (2) Indirect. In the direct method 
fatigue is measured by capacity for mental work, and, where 
possible, by work of the same nature as that producing the 
fatigue. In the indirect method, fatigue is measured by some 
secondary phenomenon resulting from it, such as change in 
the rate of the pulse, in capacity for bodily work, in the 
sensitiveness of the skin, etc. 

Examples of Direct Measurement, (i) The amount done 
and the mistakes made in the first ten minutes of a lesson 
compared with the amount done and the mistakes made in 
the last ten minutes. (2) Addition, subtraction or multiplica- 
tion tests before and after an arithmetic lesson. (3) Dictation 
tests before and after any lesson. 

Examples of Indirect Measurement, (i) By the Ergo- 
graph, an instrument invented by Professor Mosso, of Turin, 



FATIGUE (MENTAL AND PHYSICAL) 147 

the pioneer worker on fatigue. Here, the hand and arm are 
strapped to a table, leaving one ringer free, and to this finger 
a weight is fastened by a string passing over a pulley. The 
weight hangs over the edge of the table, and the finger is 




THE ERGOGRAPH 
The middle finger pulls the weight 




. 56- 

(From Jewett's Control of Body and Mind. Ginn and Co.) 

moved up and down as long as possible. Fatigue is estimated 
from the work done by the finger before exhaustion sets in. 
This involves the assumption that bodily work decreases in 
proportion to mental fatigue, and this assumption is not a 



Fig-. 57. ^Esthesiometer 

proved fact ; hence the results cannot be taken as quite trust- 
worthy. (2) By the Msthesiometer, an instrument invented 
by Griesbach. It has two points, the distance between which 
can be varied. The smallest distance on the skin at which 
these can be felt as two is measured, and is supposed to 



148 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

indicate fatigue, since it increases with fatigue ; i.e. the 
sensitiveness of the skin to touch decreases with fatigue. 
However, we have no proof that the decrease is proportional 
to the fatigue, and hence again the results cannot be taken as 
trustworthy. (3) Instruments for measuring blood-pressure 
and changes in pulse and respiration have also been used. 
(4) By Weichardt's Massive Arm and Leg Movements : Here 
a dumb-bell is held in each hand, with the arms in the forward- 
stretch position. They are then moved outward in quarter- 
circles and back again, once per second, to a word of command. 
With each movement the right and left feet are raised alter- 
nately to knee-level. After from twenty to thirty seconds 
this becomes more difficult, and suddenly the arms sink. 
The time which elapses before this happens gives a measure 
of the fatigue, but again it is not certain that the time is 
inversely proportional to the fatigue. (5) By the Antitoxin 
method. This also was invented by Weichardt, who states 
that the blood forms an antitoxin which is an antidote to the 
toxins produced by fatigue, and which can be used to 
measure fatigue. The value of the method, however, needs 
further confirmation. Hence, on the whole, direct tests are 
more reliable than are the indirect. 

Type of Child specially Liable to Brain -Fatigue. One 
must remember that fatigue sets in at different rates with differ- 
ent children. The type specially liable to it is the delicate, 
nervous, emotional, irritable child ; also the anaemic, ill-fed, 
quickly growing and mentally precocious ; also those exposed 
to bad air, bad light, bad time-tables, unhealthy home con- 
ditions, too little sleep ; and those with defects of sight or 
hearing ; and, lastly, those just at puberty. The phlegmatic 
type, on the other hand, has a strong nervous system, with slow 
response of brain and muscle, is often unambitious, with good 
memory, refusing to be forced, and is very free from nervous 
fatigue. 

Muscular Fatigue is due to the production of toxins in the 
nerve-cells and muscles used faster than they can be got rid 
of by the excretory organs, and the result is accumulation of 
poison. This poison chiefly affects the brain-centres control- 
ling the muscles, so that they cease to control the muscles 



FATIGUE (MENTAL AND PHYSICAL) 149 

properly, and further, the brain-cells produce the sensation of 
fatigue. Hence all fatigue is really chiefly fatigue of the 
Nervous System. (See also Chapter III.) 

In order to emphasise the fact that, at bottom, there is 
only one kind of fatigue, let me give two extracts from Mosso : 

1. " The nervous system is the sole source of energy ; and 
although we must admit a certain amount of localisation, this 
is not of such a nature as to prevent the neighbouring organs 
feeling any loss through the great activity of any one organ. 
The exhaustion of energy is general ; and all the magazines 
of energy can be drained by the exaggeration of any activity 
whatever of the organism. The conclusion to which we are 
led by my experiments is that there exists only one kind of 
fatigue, namely, nervous fatigue ; this is the preponderating 
phenomenon, and muscular fatigue also is at bottom an 
exhaustion of the Nervous System." 

2. " Cerebral fatigue diminishes the force of the muscles. 
The exhaustion is twofold, central and peripheral. This 
explains why after brain-fatigue one feels one's energy 
exhausted by the slightest movement, and why every obstacle 
which we have to overcome seems to have grown more serious. 
In these circumstances, violent exercises should be avoided, 
because they are injurious : fencing, gymnastics, or any 
muscular effort whatever aggravates the conditions of the 
organism. It is therefore a physiological error to interrupt 
lessons to make children do gymnastics, in the hope that this 
may diminish brain-fatigue. To restore the forces of the 
organism after exhaustion by intellectual labour there is 
no remedy other than immobility and letting one's thoughts 
wander. When we force the nervous system to muscular 
after cerebral effort we find the muscles less fit to work, and we 
add to the cerebral fatigue another fatigue which, as we shall 
see later, is of the same nature and is equally harmful to the 
Nervous System. The best way to rest is to sit still and 
' think of nothing,' and to let children play and amuse 
themselves in the open air." 

One more extract, giving Mosso 's suggestion as to how 
brain-fatigue, affects capacity for muscular work : " Between 
the muscles and the brain there are only two ways of com- 



150 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

munication ; the nerves and the blood. If we regard the brain 
and the muscles as two telegraph offices, we can understand 
that the nerves which join them do not suffer from fatigue. 
But the central, or psychical station, may influence the 
peripheral or muscular station, even if the latter is not doing 
work, seeing that both brain and muscles are irrigated by the 
blood. The blood current may introduce into the muscles 
some injurious substance which has been produced in the 
brain as the effect of its activity. It is also possible that it 
takes useful substances from the muscles to convey them to 
the brain, which requires large supplies of energy for the work 
of thought." 



CHAPTER XIV 
THE SENSES AND THEIR TRAINING SIGHT 

Value of senses and their training The eye : structure and uses of 
lids and eyeball Vision Defects of vision (long and short 
sight, astigmatism, squint) and common eye-diseases Their 
relation to school and home conditions, heredity, and general 
health Part taken by teacher in detection and amelioration 
Vision tests. 

THE five senses, of sight, hearing, smell, taste and touch are 
of enormous importance in our lives, since it is through them 
that we are able to enter into relations with the external 
world. These five senses, together with a sixth, called the 
muscular sense, are the avenues by which all information 
reaches the mind, and for this reason they have been called 
the five outposts of the mind. Any defect in the development 
of the senses makes contact with the environment less perfect 
than it should be and inevitably handicaps the owner, and the 
more serious the defect the greater is the resulting isolation 
and loss. The story of Helen Keller, the American child who 
at the age of one year and five months lost both sight and 
hearing and hence became dumb, depicts very vividly the 
desire for expression and companionship and the awful sense 
of bondage which possessed her before the education of her 
sense of touch enabled her to pass, as she says, " From dark- 
ness into light." Through touch she learned first how to 
communicate with others by means of the hands, then how to 
speak orally and to " hear " others by feeling the movements 
of their lips and throats, and how to read and write by the 
Braille system. 

Since the senses are of almost infinite value to a human 
being, it behoves us to see that we so treat them that they 



152 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

may attain a full development . Now, it is sometimes said that 
life . will do this, without our troubling about any special 
sense -training but is this really true to our everyday 
experience ? We all know that our capacity for enjoying 
music depends considerably on the training of the ear, that 
full appreciation of the beauty of colour in art or nature 
depends on the training of the eye to note differences of shade, 
contrast, etc., and this suggests that the sense-organs do not, 
apart from definite education, attain the degree of develop- 
ment which makes them the best possible servants of the 
mind, or even of industrial efficiency. Again, it is an accepted 
fact that civilisation deprives the sense-organs of much of the 
training which uncivilised life brings in its train, simply 
because the senses are not, to the civilised man, such essential 
weapons in the struggle for survival as they are to the savage. 
Hence they are less used and consequently atrophy to some 
extent. The superiority of the senses of sight, hearing and 
smell in many of the lower animals compared with man can 
be similarly explained. It is therefore safe to say that some 
early and definite sense-training is valuable to every child 
and especially to that great army of children whose sense- 
organs are markedly below the average, for thus the defect is 
likely to be discovered early and means can then be taken to 
remedy it, where otherwise it may remain undiscovered and 
prove a permanent handicap. A defect discovered thus 
through the ordinary school work, owing to the child's failure 
in some test of skill which can be easily performed by the 
other children, often impresses the parent more than the fact 
that the doctor schedules the child as short-sighted, hard-of- 
hearing, etc. 

Another argument in favour of sense-training is that it 
involves brain-training, since every sense organ is connected 
by nerves with a definite brain-area. The brain, like all 
other organs, needs use if it is to develop, and the various 
brain-centres are so connected that a strengthening of one 
may very probably tend to strengthen other and possibly 
higher centres. 

As to methods by which the senses may be educated, one 
cannot do better than read Mme Montessori's descriptions of 



SENSES AND THEIR TRAINING SIGHT 153 

the system and apparatus by which she develops the senses 
even of defective children. 

The Eye. The eye is the chief of the sense-organs and its 
importance cannot be exaggerated. Poor eyesight is a heavy 
handicap educationally and in later life. About thirty per 
cent of children in elementary schools have defective vision, 
and of these seventeen per cent need treatment. It is worth 
noting that the sight of children living in the country is 
distinctly better than that of children in towns. 

Structure of the Eye. The eyeball is placed in a bony 
socket lined with fat and protected in front by lids. In the 
lids are two kinds of gland. (A gland is a structure which 

Tear Gland 



Tear Duct 




To Nose 



Fig 58. Diagram of eyelids 



manufactures a useful fluid or gets rid of a harmful one from 
the blood.) Those in the lids are the lachrymal and the 
meibomian glands. 

i. A lachrymal (or tear) gland is placed in the upper lid 
of each eye, towards the outer corner. These manufacture 
the secretion called tears and pour them out by several little 
tubes opening on the inside of the lid. The function of tears 
is to wash the eyeball free of dust, etc., and when this is done 
the washing-up water, so to speak, drains off into the nose by 
two tiny holes in the inner corner of the lids, which you can 
see easily. Hence the use of blowing the nose if something 
gets into the eye. The amount of tears is influenced by 



154 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

emotion, and if it is excessive we are said to cry, and then 
the quantity of fluid is too great for the tear-duct to carry 
off, and so tears roll over the edges of the lids. 

2. The meibomian glands. There are many of these, 
opening by tiny pores on the edges of the lids, amongst the 
eyelashes. Their function is to make oil which prevents the 
tears, unless excessive, from running over the edge of the lids. 
(Cp. greasing the lip of a beaker or jug before pouring liquid 
out of it, to prevent trickling down the side.) A block in the 
mouth of one of the meibomian glands produces a stye, and is 
very likely to result from rubbing eyes with dirty hands, and 
the tendency to rub is often due to defective sight and con- 
sequent tiring and irritation of the eyes. 

The Eyeball is fastened to the socket by six muscles, in 
three pairs, of which one is attached to the top and bottom 




Inferior 

Oblique 
59- The eyeball and ocular muscles 

(From Narramore's Preliminary Physiology. Methuen) 



and one to the sides of the eyeball so that it can turn in any 
direction, e.g. if the inferior rectus contract we look down, 
if the internal rectus contract we look towards the nose. 
The eyeball is spherical, except in front, where it bulges. 
It has three coats : (i) the sclerotic coat ; (2) the choroid 
coat ; (3) the retina. The sclerotic coat is tough, white, 



SENSES AND THEIR TRAINING SIGHT 155 

fibrous and opaque except in front, where it is transparent 
and called the cornea. Its function is to protect the inner 
part of the eye and keep the whole ball in shape. The choroid 
coat is black and full of blood-vessels which bring nourishment 
to the eye, and the blackness prevents the reflection of rays 
of light entering the eye. Towards the front it becomes 




Figf. 60. Section of an eye 

i, cornea ; i', conjunctiva ; 2, hard coat or sclera ; 3, b'ood coat 
or choroid ; 4, iris^; 5, focussing muscle ; 6, lens ligament ; 7, lens ; 
8, optic nerve ; 9, front fringe of retina ; 9", central spot of re- 
tina ; 10, jelly packing eye 

(From Harman's Eyes of our Children. Methuen) 



coloured, and hangs down behind the cornea, forming the iris. 
There is a hole in the centre of the iris, called the pupil. The 
iris contains two sets of muscle -fibres, one circular and one 
radial, and therefore can contract or expand the pupil. The 
retina is a very delicate fibrous expansion of the optic nerve 
which enters the eye at the back. A small part of it, opposite 
the centre of the lens, is called the yellow spot. Behind the 



156 



A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 



iris is suspended the crystalline-lens, which is convex and 
hung on ligaments which are connected with the ciliary 
muscles in the walls of the eye. It is worth remembering 
that these muscles are very small and easily tired. The 
convexity of the lens can be increased by the action of these 
muscles, the change being called accommodation. The .rest 
of the ball is full of a clear jelly-like stuff behind and a watery 
stuff in front of the lens. 

Vision is due mainly to the action of the lens on light rays 
falling on it from the objects, seen. If clear vision is to result > 



Rays from 
distant ) 
object ( 




Retina 





Image 



Image 



Image 



Fig. 61. 



Dotted lines show shape of lens when accommodated 
for near object (o) 



these rays must focus on the retina, i.e. an image of what is 
seen must be formed on the retina. Now a normal eye is so 
constructed that it focusses distant objects (anything over 
twenty-five feet) without accommodation of the lens, but for 
anything nearer, accommodation is needed. The reason is 
that rays striking the eye from a distant point are approxi- 
mately parallel. Focussing means that the rays are bent till 
they meet on the retina. Now for a near object, the rays are 



SENSES AND THEIR TRAINING SIGHT 157 

divergent, and therefore more bending is needed to make 
them meet on the retina, and increased bending can only be 
got by making the lens more convex, and this means that the 
ciliary muscles must contract, i.e. accommodation occurs. 
The nearer the object the more accommodation is needed, 
and finally we reach a limit, beyond which if the object is 
brought nearer, we cannot see it clearly. 

A second condition of clear vision is that the image 
should fall on the yellow spots of each eye, and this 



Object 



brought nearer 



Lea Eye 




Fig-. 62. Diagram illustrating convergence 

means that the axes of the eyes must converge so that 
if produced they would meet on the object. This con- 
vergence is brought about by the muscles fastening the ball 
to the socket, chiefly by the contraction of the internal 
recti. Obviously, the nearer the object the greater the 
convergence and therefore the greater the strain on the 
muscles. The mechanism for convergence is not developed 



158 



A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 



during the first month of life and therefore a baby often 
squints at this stage, and mothers are unnecessarily alarmed. 
Obviously also, accommodation and convergence are inter- 
dependent, one always occurring with the other. This explains 
why too near work is bad ; it tends to strain the muscles of 
the eye, and constant contraction of the internal and external 
recti squeezes the eyeball out of shape in time, elongating it 
from back to front, and so producing the structural defect, 
short sight. Apart from this the tired eye-muscles make the 
eyes ache, the child rubs them and introduces dirt which 
causes styes, inflammation, etc. Headaches also result. The 
child may hold its work too near for various reasons, such as 
too fine work, habit, bad light, short sight, bad posture. 

Short Sight (Myopia). This is caused by the ball being too 
long for the lens. Hence parallel rays focus in front of the 



Retina 



Lens 



flays from / 
distant J 
object I 





Image 



Spectacle 
Lens 

Fig"- 63. Short sight 

retina, i.e. the image on the retina is blurred. Now, to remedy 
this one needs a flatter lens, and this being an impossibility, the 
only thing to do is to put- a spectacle -lens in front of the eye. 
This lens must be concave and so bend rays outward before 



SENSES AND THEIR TRAINING SIGHT 159 

they strike the eye. Nearer objects can be seen clearly, and 
therefore a short-sighted person tends to pull everything close 
to him. This means that excessive convergence occurs, out of 
proportion to the accommodation, and so the converging 
muscles are tired and the eye squeezed so that the defect 
tends to increase sometimes very rapidly, possibly ending in 
blindness. 

Causes of Short Sight. The defect is never inborn, but is 
probably due to the great recent increase of reading and lack 
of adaptation in the eye. The future may bring better adapta- 
tion. The tendency to short sight is strongly hereditary. 
However, at present, the chief causes lie in the school and the 
home during school age, e.g. bad light, bad print, bad desks, 
fine sewing, malnutrition. To these may be added the cinema, 
where the child usually sits in the cheap seats near the front 
and therefore has to look up, and continually move its eyes 
from side to side, and this, together with the smoky hot air 
and the joggling of the pictures, produces eye-strain and head- 
ache. Dr. Kerr says that no child under fourteen ought to be 
allowed in a cinema after 7 p.m., nor allowed to sit within 
fifteen feet of the screen, or to see a film which has not been 
specially approved for children. 

Symptoms of Short Sight. Some have already been 
mentioned, e.g. the tendency to pull all work close. Others 
are headache, inattention and apparent dulness, insomnia, 
inflamed eyes and lids, watering of the eyes, rubbing, mistakes 
in reading from the blackboard, styes. Protruding eyes with 
very big pupils suggest short sight. 

Prevention and Remedy depend on (i) removal of causes 
of eye-strain ; (2) prompt detection of defect by teacher 
and school doctor ; (3) prompt treatment of defect by teacher 
and school doctor, e.g. the child may be put in the front of the 
class, or given spectacles, and if the defect be severe he may 
be sent to a myopic or semi-blind class or school, where the 
education is specially adapted to prevent progress of the 
disease. 

Myopic or Semi -blind Classes . It is best if these classes 
are attached to an ordinary school, for then no stigma attaches 
to them in parents' eyes ; also the myopes can take oral 



160 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

lessons, drill, games and dancing with the ordinary children. 
The classes are small, with not more than twenty children in 
each. The desks have flat tops which turn back and have 
blackboard underneath (with lines two inches apart some- 
times) on which most of the writing is done. No ordinary 




Fig. 64. Myope desk, serves as table and blackboard 

(G. Hammer and Co., Ltd.) 

pens or pencils are used, but the higher classes have exercise 
books of black paper on which the children write with white 
chalk, the books being clipped to the desk blackboard and 
the writing done free-arm. Wall blackboards are also pro- 
vided, sometimes with lines four inches apart. The eldest 
children print their work, two sets of type being provided 
for each class. The type consists of rubber-faced letters one 
inch and two inches high, and the results go to form a class- 
library useful for subsequent teaching. Drill and games enter 



SENSES AND THEIR TRAINING SIGHT 161 

largely into the time-table, some games being " instructional," 
e.g. large sheets of scenic canvas are put on the floor and the 
teacher draws a huge outline map, marking chief cities, 
mountains, rivers, etc., and the children walk about on it, 
pointing out the different spots with sticks. Manual work has 
to be very carefully chosen because it must not involve fixed 
attention from the eyes. Hence sewing is prohibited, but 
knitting can be taught because the children can often learn 
it quickly and then do it automatically. Modelling of maps, 
rough woodwork, using rulers whose smallest division is a 
quarter of an inch, basket-work, bent iron, netting of ham- 
mocks, tennis-nets, etc., simple cookery and laundry are all 
suitable, but not raffia -work. 

Long Sight. All children are born thus and some never 
get over it, but it does not increase. The cause is a too short 



Lens 



Retina 



Rays from 
distant 
object 




Accommodation enables lens to focus 
image on retina. 



Object 



Object too near for image to fall or> retina, even with 
maximum accommodation. 



Object 





Spectacle 
Lens 

Fig. 65. Long sight 



,lmage 



Image 



Image 



II 



162 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

eyeball. Hence, apart from accommodation, rays from a 
distant point focus behind the retina and therefore the image 
on the retina is blurred. This is remedied by accommodation, 
which bends the rays more, so that they focus on the retina. 
However, near objects need more and more accommodation 
and finally a limit is reached, within which the object cannot 
be seen clearly. Now this means that the long-sighted eye 
is even more exposed to strain than the short-sighted eye, for 
its accommodation muscles never have a rest. Hence the 
symptoms are very like those of short sight, with the excep- 
tion that often the child holds things a long way off (but not 
always). Small, deep-set eyes, with contracted pupils, should 
suggest long sight. The remedy is a convex spectacle lens, 
which has the effect of making the eye-lens, to all intents and 
purposes, more convex, and so more able to converge rays. 
In old age long sight tends to occur owing to the lens losing 
its power of elastic recoil, so that focussing is difficult. 

Astigmatism is by no means uncommon in children or 
adults. The cause is unsymmetric curvature of the eyeball, 
specially of the cornea. This defect has been called the spoon- 
shaped eye, and is generally congenital. The result is that 
objects look blurred, and the sufferer contracts the ciliary 
muscles irregularly in the effort to pull the ball into shape, 
and so muscle-strain results, and the head is often held side- 
ways because rays in one direction focus more easily than in 
others. For the same reason the eyes are often narrowed to 
chinks. The remedy is spectacles with lenses whose curvatures 
are unequal in different directions, so that they counteract 
the inequalities in the eye -curvatures. 

Squint. This is commonest at about three years old, and 
convergence squint is the most frequent form, i.e. one or both 
of the eyes turn inward. It is caused by more or less paralysis 
of a rectus muscle, usually the external rectus, due to unequal 
vision in the two eyes, or to poor brain-control over the eye- 
mechanism, or to both causes acting together, with the result 
that one eye is used to the exclusion of the other. Squint 
tends to run in families, i.e. weak brain-control or inequality 
of vision is inherited and this favours the development of 
squint. In such families special care should be taken to 



SENSES AND THEIR TRAINING SIGHT 163 

avoid eye-strain, particularly when the children first go to 
school. It might for instance be wise to forbid homework. 

The fact that a baby so often squints during its first month 
of life is due to the absence of the necessary brain-control 
over the two eyes. In older children, sudden squint is due to 
brain-trouble, e.g. meningitis. Apart from these temporary 
cases, the right treatment is either (i) to shut off the good eye 
and so make the child use the squinting eye, which can be 
done by means of spectacles, belladonna, covering the good 
eye, etc., or (2) to operate. The operation consists in shorten- 
ing the stretched muscle and lengthening the shrunken one. 
It is very important to take a squinting child to the doctor as 
soon as possible, because a squinting eye quickly becomes 
practically blind, and even if the eyes subsequently become 
straight they will never, in this case, recover their full use. 

External Eye-Diseases 

Under this term are included those diseases which affect 
the lids and external parts of the eyeball especially the 
conjunctiva and cornea. 

1. Blepharitis or 44 Sore Eyes, "means inflammation of the 
lids and is chiefly due to dirt and neglect. It mostly occurs 
amongst mal-nourished children from dirty homes. Defects 
of vision are a predisposing factor because they lead to eye- 
strain, and so the child rubs its eyes and gets dirt into them. 
The symptoms of the disease are redness and thickening of 
the lids, formation of scabs on their edges and the falling out 
of the lashes. 

Treatment, in severe cases, is needed for months, tyit in 
slight cases ordinary cleanliness and frequent bathing with a 
lotion of bicarbonate of soda, followed by the application 
of an antiseptic ointment, will cure the disease quickly. If 
visual defect be present, spectacles will also be needed in all 
probability, and therefore every case should be reported to 
the school doctor. 

2. Stye has already been mentioned, in connection with 
the meibomian glands. 

3. Conjunctivitis is inflammation of the transparent 
membrane (conjunctiva) covering the front of the eyeball 



164 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

and the inside of the lids, and the disease has various forms, 
some of which are very infectious, being conveyed by hands, 
towels, sponges, etc. Hence, when an epidemic of the disease 
occurs in school, it is well to forbid children to wash in school 
unless separate towels are provided. 

Symptoms of Common Conjunctivitis 

(a) The eyes look red ; hence the name " pink-eye," which 
was first applied to a similar condition in the eye of the 
horse. 

(b) There is an extra discharge of tears, mixed with matter, 
or pus, and during the night this cakes on the lashes so that 
the lids are often stuck together in the morning. This dis- 
charge is very infectious. 

(c) Light causes pain, and so the patient shrinks from it, 
but it is a mistake therefore to bandage the eyes, as this 
keeps the pus in and one wants to get rid of it, which is best 
done by frequent bathing of the eyes. If special lotions be 
needed, the doctor will prescribe them. 

Phlyctenular conjunctivitis is another form of the disease, 
causing little white spots on the cornea and great pain, so 
that the child keeps its eyes shut. Unless promptly treated, 
ulcers form and permanently injure the sight, and a good 
many cases of defective vision are caused thus. The disease 
appears oftenest at five years old and is often associated with 
decayed teeth, adenoids, mouth-breathing and malnutrition. 
It seems to be therefore largely the result of general ill- 
health, and cure depends on two things : (a) the building-up 
of the general health, and (b) treatment by an oculist. These 
children benefit greatly if sent to an open-air school or con- 
valescent home. 

Purulent conjunctivitis or ophthalmia neonatorum. This is 
acute inflammation of the conjunctiva accompanied by dis- 
charge of thick yellow pus, and appears within a day or two 
of birth. It causes an enormous amount of blindness ; e.g. 
it has been estimated to account for one-quarter to one-third 
of the cases in the European and American schools for the 
blind. It is due to a germ from the mother's body getting 
into the child's eyes during birth, and was made notifiable in 



SENSES AND THEIR TRAINING SIGHT 165 

1899, because it is very contagious. Also, the Midwives Act 
compels every midwife to wash the new-born baby's eyes 
with suitable lotion, and immediately to send for a doctor if 
inflammation occur. The result of these measures has been a 
considerable decrease in the disease recently. 

4. Cataract. This is due to the lens becoming opaque and 
may be congenital or may develop later. Some types of 
congenital cataract are hereditary. Cases developing later 
may be due to illness, e.g. rickets. If the opacity be so severe 
that the sight is much interfered with, the lens should be 
removed, and spectacles must then be worn to do the work 
of the lens. 

Vision Tests. Should be done on entrance and yearly 
afterwards. The favourite test is Snellen's type. The card 
should be put 20 feet (6 metres) from the child, in a good 
light, and the child should stand with its back to the light. 
Then try if it can read the 20-foot line. If not try it on the 40- 
foot (12 metres) line, and so on. Record the results as frac- 
tions ; thus if it can only read the 40-foot line at a distance of 
20 feet, its vision is f$. (i) Test each eye separately, covering 
the other with a card which does not touch it. (2) Do not 
test till at least six years old, for if younger the child may see 
properly but not interpret properly. (3) Do not let the card 
hang permanently in school, or the children will learn it by 
heart. (4) If the child has glasses, test with them on. (5) 
Note facial distortion or inclination of the head during the 
test, because these indicate astigmatism. For children under 
six, Cohn's type can be used, consisting of " E's " with their 
legs pointing in various directions. The child is asked to say 
which way they point. 



CHAPTER XV 
THE EAR AND HEARING 

Structure of ear Hearing Causes, signs and prevention of defective 
hearing and ear-disease Tests and degrees of deafness Education 
of the deaf and semi-deaf Word-deafness. 

THE ear is the second sense-organ in importance. 

Structure. It is divided into three parts the oufer, 
middle and inner ears. 

(a) The outer ear consists of the auricle, or flap, whose 
function is to collect sound-waves and hand them on to the 
auditory canal. This tube is about one and a quarter inches 
long and its end is closed by the drum, a thin membrane. The 
canal-lining contains cells with secrete wax which tastes 
bitter and whose function is probably to deter insects from 




Fig-. 66. The right ear (semi-diagrammatic) 

A, auricle ; B C, brain cavity ; O ap, outer auditory passage ; 
I, labyrinth ; d, drum ; E t, Eustachian tube ; a.n., auditory nerve. 
The bone is shaded ; the cavity of the middle ear is black 

(From Yearsley's Throat and Ear Troubles. Methuen) 

1 66 



THE EAR AND HEARING 167 

entering the canal. However, if the ears are not washed the 
wax accumulates too fast and blocks the drum and produces 
deafness. Also, apart from cleanliness, some people naturally 
secrete a large amount and the ear periodically gets "blocked. 
Treatment : Drop in warm oil and then get the doctor to 
syringe the ear, after a few hours. 

(b) The middle ear is a cavity in the side-bone of the head, 
about the size of a hazel-nut, lined with mucous membrane, 
and communicating with the throat by a tube (Eustachian) 
about the size of a quill pen, and opening in the pharynx. 
This tube admits air from the throat to the middle ear, and 
this arrangement also explains why an unhealthy state of the 



S.C.C 




Figf. 67. The inner ear 

c, cochlea-; z>, vestibule; sec, semi-circular canals ; 

fo t oval window 
(From Yearsley's Throat and Ear Troubles, Methuen) 

throat so often affects the ear. Germs in the throat can 
spread up the Eustachian tube to the ear and there set up 
inflammation and abscess, which may eat through the drum 
and pour a discharge of pus into the outer ear. Also, an 
abscess is always liable to eat through the bone separating the 
middle ear from the brain, in which case death almost cer- 
tainly results. Also it is likely to eat through and destroy the 
ligaments connecting the three little bones which carry 
sound across the middle ear to the inner ear, and this means 
permanent deafness. Hence if one wants to preserve one's 
hearing it behoves one to keep one's throat healthy, and one 
sees at once the importance of adenoids, enlarged tonsils, 
sore throat, etc. On the inner wall of the middle ear is an 
oval opening closed by a second drum, and between the two 



168 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

drums stretches a chain of three little bones connected by 
ligaments and called, because of their shapes, the hammer, 
anvil and stirrup. 

(c) On the further side of the inner drum is the inner ear, 
consisting of a little chamber about the size of a barley grain 
and called the vestibule, because of the four tubes which open 
out of it. One of these is coiled up like a snail's shell and is 
called the cochlea. The other three are semicircular in shape 
and not only start from, but also come back to the vestibule. 
The whole of the inner ear is full of fluid, and in the cochlea 
are the ends of the auditory nerve which connects the ear 
with the auditory centre in the cerebrum, whilst in the semi- 
circular canals are the ends of nerves. which pass to the 
cerebellum. The former are concerned with hearing ; the 
latter are concerned with the balance of the body, and if 
the semicircular canals are injured we become giddy, not 
deaf. 

Hearing. Sound is due to air-waves, set up by some 
vibrating body such as a violin string, a piano wire, the air 
in an organ-pipe, the vocal cords in the human larynx, and 
so on. These waves of alternately, compressed and rarefied 
air travel out in all directions from the vibrating body like 
ripples on a pond when you drop a stone in, and when they 
strike the drum of the ear they set it vibrating. These 
vibrations are transmitted by the bony chain across the 
middle ear to the inner drum, w r hich is also set vibrating and 
transmits its vibrations to the fluid in the inner ear. Now 
in this fluid hang the ends of the nerve of hearing, and the 
result is that the nerve ends are affected and impulses are 
sent from them along the auditory nerve to the auditory 
centre in the brain. The brain converts the impression into 
the sensation which we call sound. The auditory centre has 
a sub-department, as you will remember, called the auditory 
word centre, which enables one to recognise words and dis- 
tinguish them from other sounds. This is one of the four brain- 
centres specially concerned with speech and writing, and hence 
is of great importance educationally. The other three are 
the motor speech centre, the visual word centre and the writing 
centre, and if a child is to speak and write and read properly, 



THE EAR AND HEARING 169 

these centres must all exist and must all connect with one 
another. 

Defective Hearing. Prevalence. In 1915 there were prob- 
ably about 5,550 deaf or partially deaf children in England 
and Wales. Of these about 4,000 are in special schools. 
There is a very much larger number of children who have 
some defect in hearing and who are in the ordinary schools ; 
generally twelve to twenty per cent of all children have 
some degree of defective hearing. 

Causes of Deafness. Deafness may be congenital or ac- 
quired, (i) If congenital, a common cause is syphilis in the 
parents. One-half of the deaf and dumb are congenitally deaf, 
and about 15% of these can transmit the defect to their 
children and hence ought not to marry. (2) If acquired, the 
commonest causes are measles, scarlet fever and meningitis 
producing changes in the middle ear. This, at any rate, holds 
for semi -deaf and " hard-of -hearing " children. When the 
deafness is so great as to prevent the development of speech 
or to cause acquired speech to be forgotten, it is almost always 
due to changes in the inner ear. Deafness in children is nearly 
always associated with, and often due entirely to mouth- 
breathing. Mouth-breathing again may be due to habit, 
adenoids, or enlarged tonsils. Adenoids not only lead to 
mouth-breathing, but also they block the throat -end of the 
Eustachian tube and so cut off the air-supply from the middle 
ear, and this means that the air in the ear is gradually absorbed 
by the lining of the ear and therefore the cavity becomes a 
partial vacuum and the drum is forced in by atmospheric 
pressure and therefore does not vibrate properly. The 
symptoms of adenoids include open mouth and therefore a 
vacant expression and the " veiled look " of the eyes, the 
voice is flat and toneless, the speech suffers, e.g. " m " becomes 
" b," and " n " becomes " d," etc. Bad respiration means in- 
sufficient oxygenation of the blood and the child flags, becomes 
inattentive and suffers from headache. Removal of adenoids 
in time nearly always means recovery of hearing. Mouth- 
breathing means that the air taken in is not filtered of germs 
and dust, nor warmed nor damped as it is if passed through the 
nose. Hence it strikes the pharynx (i.e. top of the throat) and 



170 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

tonsils cold, dry and full of germs, and it therefore irritates 
the throat and germs are likely to lodge there and produce 
scarlet fever, diphtheria, etc. These germs can spread up 
the Eustachian tube to the middle ear, there set up inflamma- 
tion, matter forms, and the abscess bursts through the drum 
and may cause the destruction of the bony chain conveying 
sound to the inner ear and therefore great loss of hearing. 
(See Chapter V.) " If a running ear be not healed quickly, 
say within a month or two, and the condition become 
chronic, it is very difficult for healing to take place because 
the deeper bony structures have become involved. If both 
ears be thus affected, a pretty high degree of deafness may 
result, but unless the internal ear become affected, the deaf- 
ness is not likely to be so great as to cause dumbness. A 
greater misfortune than dumbness may befall the child. 
Infection may spread to the brain and cause meningitis. 
Meningitis of this type is nearly always fatal. When deaf- 
ness of very high degree comes on before five or six years, 
speech is apt to disappear, unless preserved by oral teach- 
ing/' 1 Wax has already been mentioned as a cause of 
temporary deafness. . 

Signs of Defective Hearing and Ear Disease, (i) The 
child misses spoken words or directions, specially if he cannot 
see the teacher, because deaf children often learn to lip-read. 
(2) Strained attention at the start of a lesson, quickly degener- 
ating into inattention, owing to tiredness. (3) Head often on 
one side, because one ear is better than the other. (4) Mouth- 
breathing. (5) Earache. (6) Headache. (7) Discharge from 
the ear. (8) Singing in the ears. (9) Giddiness. (10) 
" Spurious " mental defect. " There is more backwardness 
due to defective hearing than to defective sight." (Dr. Kcrr 
Love.) 

Tests for Hearing. Knowledge of this is much vaguer 
than is that of eye-testing. There is only one really good 
way, and that is by the human voice, and the most uniform 
method of applying the test is by whispered speech. "Watches, 
acoumeters and tuning forks are of scientific and diagnostic 

1 Dr. J. Kerr Love in the Deaj Child. 



THE EAR AND HEARING 171 

value, but the school-child's progress depends on his being 
able to make out the speech of his teacher, hence speech is 
the test the latter must apply/' (Dr. Kerr Love.) Whispered 
speech is not strictly voice, because the vocal cords are not 
used in it ; it is only the upward current of air modified by 
the tongue and lips, but it is more uniform in pitch and 
intensity than true speech. Now it is very important to define 
the kind of whisper to be used. Some people think it is a 
whisper with all the air you can get into the lungs behind it, 
such a whisper producing a noise which Dr. Macleod Yearsley 
compares to " the death-rattle of a despairing and infuriated 
elephant ; a bellow which can be heard at one thousand yards 
rather than twenty-five metres," which is the correct distance 
for a normal ear to hear a whisper ; i.e. the right kind of 
whisper is by no means a " stage " whisper. It is whispering 
at the end of expiration, and the test should consist of two or 
three unconnected numbers or words pronounced conse- 
cutively. Precautions in testing : (i) Test the ears separately, 
an assistant closing the ear not being tested by the moistened 
forefinger pushed well into the canal. (2) The whisperer must 
be at the side of the child and the child must look straight 
ahead and not at the mouth of the whisperer. Unless this 
precaution be taken the child will lip-read. (3) The room 
must be quiet, and at least twenty feet long; thirty feet is 
better. 

Degrees of Deafness. The average hearing distance for a 
whisper in a noiseless room is twenty -five yards, and " a child 
who hears it at five yards is not likely to be backward on 
account of deafness," so one sees how great the margin of 
" spare hearing " for the child is. Anything worse than this 
strains the child's attention and makes it advisable to put 
him in the front of the class or in a small class where he can 
get individual attention. This does not mean that a child 
loses nothing if his hearing distance is reduced from twenty- 
five yards to five yards ; he will lose a good many sounds in 
ordinary family life and in the outside world, but he will hear 
the teacher's raised voice all right. An easy rule, known as 
the " six-foot rule,'.' is as follows : If the child cannot hear a 
whisper with at least one ear at six feet he will find it difficult 



172 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

to keep up with the work of the ordinary school. Dr. Kerr 
Love's classification of the partially deaf is as follows : (i) 
Children who hear whispers at five yards but not more may be 
called slightly hard of hearing. (2) Those who hear only at 
one to three yards are moderately hard of hearing, and many 
become backward. Hence they should be put in smaller 
classes and the teacher should speak slowly and distinctly, 
and if the child can be taught to lip-read it will be a great 
gain, not only in school, but in later life. (3) Under a hearing- 
distance of one yard the child may be called semi-deaf, and 
should be removed from the ordinary school to a special class 
taught by an articulation teacher where there are not more 
than ten or twelve children. A child as deaf as this often has 
defective speech, especially if the deafness has come on very 
early. The eye must be called in to help the ear, i.e. the 
child must be taught lip-reading if he is to compete on equal 
terms with normal children and later on with normal adults. 
Till quite recently the semi-deaf have been sent to institutions 
for the deaf and dumb, whose processes of thought are 
different. Hence the half -deaf should remain at home and 
attend special day-school or class. There are at present only 
six such classes, in London and Bristol. Along with the half- 
deaf should be placed the quite deaf who have some speech 
left. They are sometimes called the semi-mute, and their 
thought processes are more like those of the hearing child 
than of the deaf and dumb. " Spotted fever " sometimes 
accounts for this state. 

Methods of Educating Deaf-Mutes. The systematic 
education of the deaf started about 1760, with the work of 
de TEpee in France. He and his successor, Sicard, " did all 
that enthusiasm and genius could do to perfect a system of 
signs, and they failed. They based their system on the fallacy 
that signs are the natural language of the deaf . . . the only 
one in which the deaf could think or reason. Now, signs are 
no more the natural language of the deaf than they are of the 
hearing, but in the absence of speech they are the best the 
untaught deaf can do in the way of finding a substitute for 
speech. Speech is natural to both deaf and hearing children, 
but both have to learn it, and in the absence of hearing, this 



THE EAR AND HEARING 173 

task is very difficult ; hence deaf children fall back on the 
easier and more primitive language of signs." 1 

Simultaneously, Heinicke, in Germany, was advocating the 
teaching of speech to the deaf, and it is because his principle 
is right and de I'Epee's wrong that the oral methodic displacing 
the sign-and-manual method for all but the mentally deficient 
deaf. The oral method is that by which the teacher tries to 
make speech the means of communicating with others. The 
manual or finger-spelling method is that by which finger- 
spelling is used as a means of expressing thought, and a 
" combined " method is practically impossible, because the 
finger-language is more easily learned and deciphered than 
speech and therefore tends to crowd out speech. This does 
not mean that signs and finger-spelling have no place in the 
education of the deaf-mute. " In the early stages of the 
child's learning, gestures and signs cannot be avoided. In 
the later stages they are unnecessary, whilst finger-spelling 
can always be avoided by using writing, a safer, if a somewhat 
slower, means of explaining a new word than finger-spelling. 
The latter is dangerous in the schoolroom, and its use imperils 
both the speech and the lip-reading of the child." 2 If the 
speech habit is to be firmly fixed, speech must be insisted on 
and sign-language as far as possible prohibited. This means 
that one must separate the mentally defective deaf from the 
ordinary deaf, for the former can only be taught finger-spelling 
and the latter should not be taught finger-spelling. This 
separation is not made in most of our deaf schools, and hence 
the admixture of manual and oral methods, which is un- 
satisfactory in theory and practice. The mentally defective 
deaf should be placed in institutions for life. The ordinary 
deaf should spend their first few years of school life chiefly in 
acquiring articulate speech so that a vocabulary of common 
words is used automatically. This means slow intellectual 
progress for the first two or three years, but it means better 
intelligence and better language in the end if the school course 
can be made long enough. After speech, drawing should be 

1 The DeaJ Child, by Dr. J. Kerr Love. 
8 Dr. Kerr Love. 



174 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

taught, and then writing. In England most children are 
taught some speech ; in some institutions the teaching is 
wholly oral for most children, and those who are taught 
manually are separated from the orally taught, and although 
it is some way off, we are approaching the time when every 
deaf child of good mentality will communicate with other 
people by speech and lip-reading. 

Deaf Children under School Age. At present we do not 
begin to educate the deaf child till seven years, and, as Dr. 
Ken Love points out, the tacit assumption is that a deaf 
and a hearing child are alike at seven, whereas the deaf child 
at seven is only equal to a hearing child of one and a half or 
two years in many respects, and the loss between two and 
seven is irretrievable because these are the natural years of 
speech-development and therefore no other five years are like 
these. This is one reason why the results of the education of 
the deaf are not more satisfactory ; it is also the reason for 
the demand for earlier education of the deaf. How can this 
be achieved ? Two ways have been suggested : (i) Instruc- 
tion of parents of deaf children in the principles of lip-reading. 
(2) Establishment of teaching arrangements for deaf infants 
between two and seven years, in (a) day-nursery schools, 
or (b) by articulation teachers visiting the homes and teaching 
both parents and children. The thing is to get the child to 
regard the movements of the muscles of face, tongue and 
lips as the means of expressing ideas. Probably one ought 
not to spend long, at this stage, on articulation, or expect to 
get good speech but one would be developing the speech 
instinct at the natural time. 

Types of School. Most deaf children can be educated in 
day schools and most parents greatly prefer this arrange- 
ment, which also costs less than institutional training. Every 
large city should have one or more evening classes for teaching 
lip-reading to the adult deaf, and for continuing the education 
of the deaf who leave the ordinary deaf school at sixteen, 
but need further training to place them on an equal footing 
with the hearing. There are now in existence thirty day 
and twenty-one residential schools for the deaf -f six classes 
for the semi-deaf. 



THE EAR AND HEARING 175 

Word -deaf ness. May be congenital or acquired. "Hearing 
for musical sounds or even for the letters which compose 
words may be, and is usually, perfect, but the audit ory 
memories for spoken words are destroyed. When a boy is 
clever with his hands and good at games, where the difficulty 
is chiefly with his acquisition of language, word-deafness 
and word-blindness should be sought for. Many of these 
cases are never discovered, and the children are passed off as 
stupid, the real cause of the dulness never having been 
discovered." 1 ' It is possible, unless the defect is bilateral, to 
train the speech centres on the right side of the brain to do the 
work of the hereditary speech centres on the left. If failure 
shows the defect to be bilateral, education should be by 
writing and the finger alphabet. 

1 Dr. Kerr Love. 



CHAPTER XVI 
SMELL, TASTE, TOUCH. MUSCULAR SENSE 

Smell. The bone forming the roof of the nose is perforated 
by a number of tiny holes through which the nerves of smell 
pass from the brain into the upper part of the nose-cavity, 
where they hang freely. When we smell, minute particles 
from the odorous substance come in contact with these nerve- 
endings and stimulate them. Hence nervous impulses pass 
to the olfactory centres in the brain, where the sensation of 
smell results. Clearly, if we are to smell anything thoroughly, 
the air bearing the odoriferous particles must reach the top of 
the nose-cavity, and this explains why we instinctively sniff 
when we wish to smell anything. Conversely, if we wish to 
avoid an unpleasant odour, it is best to breathe gently whilst 
in its neighbourhood, so that the inspired air only passes 
through the lower part of the nose-cavity. The reason why a 
cold in the head so often impairs the sense of smell is that the 
mucous membrane lining the nose is then so swollen that the 
nerve-ends are practically buried in it and so the air cannot 
reach them. 

The sense of smell is useful in three ways : (i) as a source 
of enjoyment, (2) as a defence against danger ; e.g. it enables 
us to detect decay, escape of gas, etc., (3) as an aid to the 
sense of tas.te. This last use is due to vapour given off from 
the food in the mouth and passing into the pharynx and 
hence upwards into the nose. The value of the nose as an aid 
to taste can be experimentally tested by holding the nose and 
tasting, say apples and onion in close succession. The two 
will seem to differ very little in flavour. 

Taste. The tongue is the organ of taste, in virtue of the 
fact that in it are situated the ends of the nerves of taste which 
pass to the taste-centres in the brain. Taste can only be 

176 



SMELL, TASTE, TOUCH. MUSCULAR SENSE 177 

detected when the substance tasted is dissolved, and so a 
solid must partly dissolve in the saliva before it is tasted. 
Then it stimulates the ends of the taste-nerves, impulses 
pass up the nerves to the brain, and here sensation is pro- 
duced. 

The tip of the tongue is most sensitive to sweets, the back 
to bitters and the sides to acid. 

Extremes of temperature more or less numb the sense of 
taste, and therefore a good way of taking nasty medicine is 
to wash the mouth out with very hot or very cold water, then 
hold the nose and swallow the medicine. 

Taste is assisted by smell in the way described in the last 
section. 

Touch. The skin is the organ of touch, as explained in 
Chapter VIII, since the ends of the nerves of touch lie in the 
dermis. These nerves enable us to " feel " things, to recognise 
differences of texture, hardness, size, shape, temperature, etc. 
The sensitiveness of the skin varies in different parts of the 
bbdy according to the number of nerve-endings and the thick 
ness of the epidermis in that part. This may easily be demon- 
strated experimentally by taking a divider with blunt points 
and applying them to the skin in different parts, in each case 
noting the minimum distance between the points which gives 
the sensation of two touches. The experiment can be carried 
out more accurately with the aesthesiometer described in 
Chapter XIII. One set of results is as follows : 

POSITION DISTANCE BETWEEN POINTS 

Tip of tongue . . TJ inch 

Tip of finger . . . . * . . T V ,, 

Edge of lips . . i 

Cheek . . . . . . . . I 

Middle of back . . . . . . 3 inches 

The greater the distance between the points, the greater is 
the distance between the nerve-ends, and hence the less is 
the sensitiveness of the skin. 

The skin is more sensitive to touch when damp than when 
dry, and this explains why a workman sometimes moistens 
his thumb before testing the edge of a tool on it. 

13 



178 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

The eyes often help the brain to produce correct touch- 
sensations ; one is very likely to get an incorrect estimate of 
the size of an object which is felt but not seen. 

The sensitiveness of the skin to heat varies in different parts 
of the body, but not in exactly the same way as does the 
touch-sense. Thus the parts most sensitive to heat are the 
cheeks, eyelids and elbows, and this explains why in ironing 
one holds the hot iron near the cheek to test its temperature, 
and why the temperature of a hot bath is tested by the 
elbow. The tongue, lips and tips of the fingers are not so 
sensitive as other parts. The skin, however, is of little value 
as an accurate guide to temperature because the sensation 
produced depends on other factors in addition to temperature, 
viz. on (i) the conductivity for heat of the object touched, 
and (2) the relative temperatures of the skin and the object. 
An explanation of these factors can be obtained from any 
textbook on heat. 

Muscular Sense. This is a kind of subconsciousness 
derived from the muscular system, owing to the fact that 
sensory nerves pass from the muscles to the brain, and so 
the brain is enabled to realise what the muscles are doing 
and what are their positions and movements at any particular 
moment. In. the brain impressions of muscular actions are 
stored up, giving a subconscious memory which is of great 
use in estimation and comparison of quantities and qualities 
such as distance, weight, roughness, hardness, etc. For 
instance, when looking at an object, the eyes must converge 
and the lenses bulge to an extent depending on the nearness 
of the object, and both convergence and accommodation are 
due to muscular action, as explained in Chapter XIV. After 
practice, we become able to estimate the distance of an 
object by the amount of muscular effort demanded of the 
eye-muscles when we look at the object, though we are not 
conscious of using our stored-up memories of previous 
muscular work done by these muscles. The truth of this 
explanation of our power of judging distance is borne out by 
the fact that a blind man suddenly restored to sight always 
at first complains that everything is touching his eyes, 
because he has no miiscular sense of distance, 



SMELL, TASTE, TOUCH. MUSCULAR SENSE 179 

We have probably hitherto underestimated the value of 
this muscular sense in education and have relied too ex- 
clusively on appeals to eye and ear. Mme Montessori makes 
much use of exercises for training this sense, e.g. in writing 
she relies on the motor memory to direct the hand, instead 
of trusting to the eye. Hence her children can write nearly 
as well with their eyes shut as with them open. All teachers 
should remember that muscle-training is brain-training, and 
that here we have a means of making impressions on the brain, 
even when it is " deficient." 



CHAPTER XVII 

TRAINING THE CHILD IN THE PRACTICE OF 
HYGIENE 

Cultivation of good physical habits at home and in school, monitoria 1 
work, inspections, " drills," the school premises as a pattern, 
baths, posture, place of Hygiene in time-table, type of lesson 
relation to other subjects (science, domestic economy). 

Training of the Child in the Practice of Hygiene. The 

test of good teaching of Hygiene in school is the extent to which 
the children put into practice the laws cf health. If our 
teaching simply leads to a theoretical knowledge and a practice 
quite independent of that theory we can conclude once and for 
all that we have failed. Hence we must think out carefully how 
we can so practise our children in hygienic living that this 
way of life becomes automatic and habitual. Then we may 
proceed to strengthen the impression by giving reasons for 
that practice but the right order is, Practice first and 
Theory second. Hence I should be inclined to give no 
regular time-table period to Hygiene until Standard V at 
earliest ; below Standard V one can give an occasional lesson 
now and then as the need arises, e.g. on such a subject as the 
care of teeth, which needs to be dealt with fairly early, but 
the main bulk of the teaching should be practical and in- 
cidental. 

The training in practice should, of course, begin at home, 
when the child is still a baby. The baby can be taught, e.g. 
to dislike being dirty, to breathe through the nose and not 
through the mouth, to chew instead of bolting its food when 
it arrives at the dignity of solid food, and to take plenty of 
physical exercise' provided that it is dressed in garments 
which make kicking and stretching and all the other in- 
stinctive movements of babyhood possible, and that it is 

1 80 



THE PRACTICE OF HYGIENE 181 

not cooped up all day in a perambulator when it ought to be 
in a much more open and less confined space. Before it is 
one year old it should have its own tooth-brush. The habit 
of regular and long sleep. can be developed in the baby by 
putting it to bed at a regular time and seeing that the con- 
ditions for healthy sleep are present. 

When the child comes to the nursery or Infant School very 
thorough and careful attention should be paid to cultivating 
good physical habits in these same matters of eating, 
excretion, the right use of the sanitary appliances, breathing, 
cleanliness and sleep. One scores here if the children have 
their midday meal at school, for this provides many chances 
of education in washing of hands, cleaning of teeth, right 
ways of eating, the habit of sleep after the meal, etc. One 
must never consider time spent over such matters as wasted ; 
rather it is being spent in a most valuable and profitable way. 

As the child grows older and enters the Senior School 
much may still be done to give it practice in healthy ways of 
life ; e.g. there should be a carefully arranged system of 
monitorial work whereby the children are made responsible, 
in rotation, for the ventilation and heating of the classroom, 
for its neatness and decoration with flowers, for its dusting 
if perchance the caretaker omit this rite. In the cloakroom 
and lavatory, monitors should be responsible for seeing that 
clothes are hung on the right pegs and that basins are left 
clean and empty and, again, that windows are open. Super- 
vision of lavatories and closets by the staff is exceedingly 
necessary since many children have had no home-training in 
the right use of such arrangements ; they may have seen 
the water-closet used as a receptacle for rubbish of all sorts, 
the bath used as a store-house for coal, and often they have 
little idea of the need for modesty and privacy. (See also 
Chapter XXIV.) A useful practical lesson is to divide the 
children into small groups and take them round the school 
premises on a tour of inspection and explanation of all the 
sanitary arrangements, including sinks, baths, basins, closets, 
ventilating arrangements, heating, drain-pipes and ven- 
tilators. Explain exactly how the various traps, etc., work 
and then let them write a description ol what they have seen, 



182 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

illustrated with sketches. Such a survey will take more than 
one lesson but it is time well spent. 

In addition, there should be regular inspection by the staff 
of the personal cleanliness of the children. Thus daily in- 
spection of face, hands, nails, neatness of hair, state of repair 
of clothing, cleanliness of boots and handkerchiefs, coupled 
with prompt despatch of those who do not pass muster to 
lavatory or home have revolutionised the standard of personal 
cleanliness in many schools. 

Certain " drills " are useful, e.g. (i) Tooth-brush drill 
after the midday meal. This involves provision of tooth- 
brushes, numbered racks and mugs. Even if this be not 
possible the teacher should do his or her best to see that the 
children possess tooth-brushes at home, and by frequent 
enquiry and judicious praise and encouragement should try 
to implant the habit of brushing teeth. (2) Insistence on 
handkerchiefs, pockets in which to keep them, and hand- 
kerchief-drill before all breathing exercises does an enormous 
amount to benefit the individual child, by keeping the 
nasal passages clean and healthy and thus preventing 
mouth-breathing, with all its attendant ills (see Chapter V). 
Further, it prevents the peculiarly unpleasant appearance of 
the child suffering from " cold in the head " without a hand- 
kerchief. 

The school itself should be a model, as far as possible, of 
cleanliness, good sanitation, ventilation, lighting and decora- 
tion, and more than anything else one needs to reform the 
lavatory and closet arrangements in many schools. The 
single, dirty wet towel, the cold water in winter and the 
absence of soap make washing a sorrow rather than a joy ; 
it is time that the school lavatory was properly equipped with 
clean towels, hot and cold water, soap and nail-brushes, 
that the caretaker was compelled to keep closets scrupulously 
clean, and that all closets were of modern type, easy to keep 
in order and with separate flushes, 

School shower-baths should be available in all districts 
where adequate provision of baths at home is difficult ; they 
are invaluable as a lesson in practical hygiene, tending to 
the formation of a lifelong habit oi cleanliness. 



THE PRACTICE OF HYGIENE 183 

The provision of plenty of opportunities in school, play- 
ground, garden, playing-field, swimming-bath, holiday camp, 
etc., for physical exercise in various forms, formal and 
recreative, will again provide better lessons in hygiene than 
any amount of talk in class about the need for fresh air and 
exercise. 

The careful insistence on good postures is, again, of much 
practical value. 

During the last two years of school-life it is desirable to 
give Hygiene a place on the time-table, for the children are 
old enough to grasp the simpler principles and reasons under- 
lying the rules which should now have been practised until 
habits of right living have been fixed. Still, however, it is 
well to combine practice with theory wherever possible ; e.g. 
first-aid, mothercraft, sick-nursing are all subjects which 
should be taught by practice as well as by precept, and the 
lessons should be so arranged that every child does the 
practical work involved. Hints as to practical work in 
Mothercraft are given in Chapter XXVIII. 

Further, one can now explain that in matters of health the 
individual owes a duty to the community in which he lives 
as well as to himself ; e.g. that carelessness about infection, 
in diseases like tuberculosis, may spread the disease widely, 
that carelessness about refuse leads to the increase of flies 
and of the various fly-borne diseases, that carelessness in 
marriage leads to miserable lives for the children of those 
marriages, and so on. 

Relation of Hygiene -teaching to other School Subjects. 
Obviously hygiene, based as it is on a number of sciences, can 
derive much assistance from various other subjects in the 
curriculum. Thus a knowledge of the elements of physics 
and chemistry is of great value in making clear the principles 
of ventilation, heating, clothing, lighting, and drainage ; 
some knowledge of geology makes clear the reasons why 
certain building sites are good and some bad, why some 
water-supplies are good, others risky ; botany and zoology 
prepare the way for understanding the structure and functions 
of the human body, especially in the matter of reproduction, 
and therefore they form the best preparation for instruction 



184 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

about sex. That instruction ought to be given in the Coil* 
tinuation and Secondary School, even if not in the Elemen- 
tary School. Cookery, laundry, house-wifery and needlework 
are all subjects wherein the children learn to practise hygiene ; 
thus the cookery class teaches them right choice of food, 
how to test its condition, how to render it digestible by 
cooking, how to economise in prices and quantities, how to 
preserve food from contamination by dirt, flies, etc. If in 
addition the children cook the school- dinners, and subse- 
quently eat them, the value is still greater, for they can lay 
tables, clear away and learn how a social meal should be 
eaten. The laundry class teaches practical cleanliness, and 
the housewifery class again shows the home, managed and 
furnished in accord with the theories taught in the hygiene 
class. Lastly, the needlework class should give much help in 
teaching children to make garments hygienic both in pattern 
and material. 

Hence the hygiene teacher should work in close collaboration 
with the teachers of these other subjects. 



CHAPTER XVIII 

PHYSICAL DISABILITIES OF CHILDREN- 
INFECTIOUS DISEASES 

Duty of teacher Germs Relation of germ and body Immunity 
Symptoms common to most infectious diseases Measles : 
symptoms, treatment, complications, how the teacher can help to 
prevent its spread, school-closure Whooping-cough, Diphtheria, 
Scarlet fever Smallpox and vaccination Chicken-pox, Mumps, 
German measles, Infantile paralysis. 

UNDER this head one includes all the conditions which disable 
children, either immediately or ultimately, and either wholly 
or partially. 

Duty of Teachers. It is very desirable that the teacher 
should take an interest in the physical disabilities as well as 
in the mental state of the child, and this involves (i) some 
knowledge of the symptoms, treatment and results of diseases, 
and (2) the attitude of the co-worker with regard to the school 
doctor. The teacher can do invaluable work in picking out 
children who need special examination by the doctor. Parents 
often appeal to the teacher for advice as to the health of their 
children. Often the doctor's advice is not understood and the 
teacher can explain it. The teacher can often stop the spread 
of infection by prompt detection of symptoms and exclusion. 
He or she can, as we said before, by steady pressure on the 
parents, often get treatment of the defects discovered by the 
doctor. 

Infectious Diseases. These are due to germs, some idea 
of which must be possessed by both teacher and children. 
" Invisible dust " is a good description for school purposes. 
More scientifically, germs belong either to the vegetable king- 
dom, forming the class of microscopic and very simple plants 
known as bacteria or, more rarely, to the lowest class of the 

185 



186 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

animal kingdom, viz. the protozoa. It is important to empha- 
sise that an attack of infectious disease always arises from a 
previous case, though the connection may be very hard to find. 
Probably eighty per cent of the diseases notified cannot be 
traced to the source. It used to be thought that disease- 
germs could originate from harmless matter, but this idea is 
now exploded. 

Relation of Seed (germ) and Soil (body) . Whether the 
germ, after entering the body, produces disease or not depends 
on two things : (i) the quality of the germ, and (2) the 
condition of the body, (a) Germs may be virulent, or at- 
tenuated (or reduced), and the germ, to give the disease, must 
be sufficiently virulent and in sufficient amounts, (b) The 
body may offer the germ a suitable or an unsuitable soil to 
grow in. The majority of people escape, i.e. are non-sus- 
ceptible to a germ at any particular time ; e.g. about ten per 
cent would be the maximum susceptible proportion of the 
population to typhoid, as proved in recent epidemics, such as 
those at Maidstone and Worthing. Any devitalising cause 
which lowers the general tone, renders the individual more 
susceptible. Certain people are congenially immune to certain 
diseases, and others acquire immunity owing to a previous 
attack of the disease. Various theories have been brought 
forward to explain this immunity ; e.g. Metchnikoff's Theory 
of Phagocytosis is that the white corpuscles are specially com- 
petent to devour germs in cases of congenital immunity, and 
acquire this power after an attack of the disease in cases of 
acquired immunity. A modification of this statement is the 
most commonly accepted theory to-day. 

When germs succeed in entering the body and thereby 
causing an attack of disease, they attract to themselves all 
the white corpuscles in the neighbouring blood-vessels and 
lymphatics, and there ensues a struggle. In the course of this 
fight the phagocytes gradually devour the germs or secrete 
substances which dissolve them, and the result is that poisons 
called toxins are liberated and are carried all over the body in 
the blood, thus producing the symptoms or outward signs of 
the disease. 

The symptoms increase in severity as the amount of toxin 



PHYSICAL DISABILITIES OF CHILDREN 187 

in the blood increases. Further, they may vary in severity 
according to the constitution of the patient. The period 
before the poison is in sufficient amount to produce symptoms 
is called the incubation ; it is followed by the invasion period, 
when symptoms develop, and which terminates with the 
climax of the disease ; this is followed either by death or by 
the decline, during which the germs are being killed off and the 
toxin eliminated from the body by the excretory organs ; and 
this period is followed by convalescence, during which the 
flabby, exhausted tissues recover their normal tone. 

Symptoms Common to most Infectious Diseases, (i) 
Rise of temperature owing to the toxin, which upsets the equi- 
librium between heat -production and heat -loss. This equilib- 
rium is maintained by the Nervous System acting on the 
blood-vessels, and the toxin disturbs the Nervous System and 
so heat -balance is lost. If too much heat is produced, which is 
the general effect, there is general wasting of the body owing 
to the tissues being so quickly oxidised. In taking temperature 
one can place the thermometer in the mouth or the arm-pit, 
but one must read the thermometer before starting and see 
that the mercury is down to 98-4 F. at least. It should be 
read in a horizontal position. It is just as well to have two 
thermometers. Temperature is the best test for exclusion of a 
child from school. If an epidemic is about, send the child 
home if the slightest sign of abnormality appears. (2) Rigor 
is a spasm of contraction of the skin-capillaries owing to 
disturbance of the Nervous System. It makes the child feel 
very cold, but the temperature is high. (3) Rashes are due 
to loss of function in the skin and the effort of nature to cast 
off waste accumulated in the sweat-glands and other parts of 
the body. (4) Sore throat, headache and sickness occur in 
many infectious diseases. 

Period of Infection. As a rule a disease is not infectious 
till the symptoms begin, and therefore if the child be isolated 
directly the first symptoms show, infection rarely spreads. 
Measles and whooping cough are infectious for several days 
before they can be diagnosed, because the symptoms are not 
characteristic ; thus in measles the first symptom is merely 
cold in the head, and in whooping cough there is no cough 



188 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

to begin with. Hence it is more difficult to stop the spread 
of -these two diseases than of practically any other. 

The Four most Important Infectious Diseases from the 
school point of view are : (i) Measles, accounting for 13,000 
deaths annually ; (2) Whooping cough, accounting for 8,000 
deaths annually ; (3) Diphtheria, accounting for 4,500 deaths 
annually ; (4) Scarlet fever, accounting for 1,800 deaths 
annually. 

i. Measles. Most of the deaths occur between two and 
five years old, and are due to ignorance of the seriousness of 
the after-results, and to bad nursing. Fifty per cent of 
London children have had measles before coming to school 
(and some come at three years old). There are two fallacies 
that one constantly comes across in connection with measles : 
(i) that the child must have it, and (2) the younger the 
better. Now a child need not have it, and the older the better, 
for then it is much less likely to die of it, and less likely to 
catch it, because less susceptible. Hence, keep children 
away from sources of infection as long as you possibly can. 
The incubation is usually fourteen days, but may range from 
seven to twenty-one days. Symptoms : For the first four days 
the child has a bad running cold and this is the most infectious 
period, hence the spread of the disease. After four days the 
rash appears, big, coarse, blotchy, and first on the face which 
looks swollen. Compare scarlet fever, in which the rash 
comes first on the upper part of the chest and not at all on 
the face, though the face is flushed. In addition there is rise 
of temperature and often headache and sickness. In mild 
cases the rash disappears in a few days and the child feels all 
right in a week and can get up after a fortnight, but it is 
infectious for three weeks and should be excluded for that 
time. 

Nursing. The child should be in a warm, well-ventilated 
room and should be warmly wrapped up, but have plenty of 
air. 

Complications. These are very likely to develop if the case 
is not properly nursed, because the disease leaves the child 
very tender, and draughts and chills are liable to cause bron- 
chitis and pneumonia. The signs of pneumonia are rapid, 



PHYSICAL DISABILITIES OF CHILDREN 189 

heavy breathing and cough. If these appear the doctor should 
be sent for, for there is bound to be a fight for the child's 
life. The other two complications are eye and ear discharge, 
e.g. one-tenth of the deaf and dumb are so owing to measles. 

Precautions in school : (i) Send home any child showing 
symptoms of cold, if cases have already occurred, for four 
days. (2) Exclude cases for three weeks. 

School-closure is of very little use in towns, even in infants' 
schools, because the children catch the disease outside as 
much as inside, and infection has probably spread before 
closure ; e.g. in Woolwich, for two years some schools closed 
for measles and some did not, with the result that practically 
the infection burnt itself out irrespectively of whether the 
schools were open or shut. In London, the usual procedure 
is as follows in the case of a measles epidemic : The infants ' 
department may be closed, and in the other departments 
children from infected homes who have not had the disease 
are excluded. Another suggestion is to close the class or 
school nine days after an outbreak, for five days. Now 9+5 = 
14, and measles tends to occur in crops with ten to fourteen 
days between. Hence in the five days the new crop will 
arise at home and so save further infection in class. 

Whooping -Cough. Incubates about eight days (the limits 
are seven to fourteen). Most deaths occur between two and 
six years. Symptoms : A common cold, followed in a few 
(ten) days by fits of coughing, ending in the characteristic 
" whoop " which is due to the violent intake of air into the 
lungs which are very nearly empty owing to the violence of 
the cough. The child may go blue in the face during the fit, 
and often vomits afterwards. 

Infection lasts till the coug 1 . goes. It is not likely to be 
conveyed in clothes. 

Treatment. Keep warm and free from draughts, though 
not in bed. Give good food and plenty of fresh air. 

Complications. The danger is that the disease may last so 
long that the lungs get worn out and the child dies of lung- 
disease, e.g. pneumonia, or consumption. 

Diphtheria. The attack-rate is greatest at four to five 
years old, and therefore if we can postpone infection we 



190 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

reduce the chance of the child's getting the disease, and if it 
does get it, the attack is less severe. The usual incubation is 
two days (the limits are one to seven). The germ attacks 
throat, wind-pipe or nose, either one or more of these parts. 

Symptoms of throat-diphtheria. Sore throat, but not 
violently so ; rise of temperature, but not very high. In this 
connection it is worth noting that tonsillitis causes much 
sorer throat and higher temperature. The patient feels very 
ill, and a thick membrane appears on the throat, due to the 
growth of the germs. Paralysis of the limbs is common, but 
always passes off, but death may occur after the throat is 
quite well, owing to paralysis of the heart. The patient is 
never safe from this till four weeks have passed. The heart is 
the essential thing to look after. 

Treatment. Antitoxin should be injected at once, i.e. in 
the first three days if it is to be of much use, and the earlier 
the better. It has saved many lives. There is no danger (e.g. 
of paralysis) from antitoxin and it is preventive as well as 
curative. The preventive effect lasts about three weeks, and 
so beneficial results have been obtained by inoculating large 
numbers in epidemics. 

Preparation of Antitoxin. It is made by cultivating 
diphtheria germs in broth, which is then filtered, to separate 
the germs from the toxin which they have produced. The 
toxin is injected into a horse for two or three months, at 
intervals, with the result that the horse does not suffer, but 
produces a quantity of adverse material, or antitoxin, in its 
blood. It is then bled, the stuff is filtered to get rid of possible 
germs, standardised, and is then ready to use. 

Symptoms of Diphtheria of the Wind-pipe. This usually 
spreads from the throat, but the larynx may be the first part 
attacked. The symptoms are laboured breathing and usually 
a brassy cough. These may go on for hours only, or for days. 
Death here is due to stoppage of the wind-pipe by the mem- 
brane which forms over it and it is a very dreadful death. 
Tracheotomy is often necessary, i.e. a hole is made in the 
wind-pipe and a tube inserted, but it is not always possible. 
Here again, antitoxin will rescue people on the verge of 
choking. 



PHYSICAL DISABILITIES OF CHILDREN 191 

Symptoms of Nasal Diphtheria. This disease is often not 
recognised, and hence is very productive of epidemics. The 
throat may be quite normal, but the nose is red, sore and 
crusted inside and about the nostrils. 

Freedom from infection is only determinable by bacterio- 
logical examination of a swab taken from the throat or 
nose. Relapses often occur after discharge from hospital, 
and the child should not be admitted to school till a fort- 
night after discharge. This is a rule in London and many 
other areas. Here is one of the great uses of an inspection 
Clinic. 

Carriers are those people who harbour the germ though 
appearing quite well. They may, however, eject the germ in 
coughing, sneezing, etc., and so infect others. 

Spread of infection is largely personal in diphtheria, i.e. 
from child to child by the breath or by sucking the same 
pencil, drinking from the same cup, etc. Hence the way to 
stamp it out is by careful inspection and isolation of children 
rather than by wholesale disinfection of rooms. It is wise, 
however, to disinfect or destroy certain of the child's personal 
belongings, such as pens, pencils, books and desk. 

Effect of Sewer-Gas in producing Diphtheria, Certain of 
the components of sewer gas have the power of relaxing the 
throat, so producing an unhealthy condition of the throat. 
They also affect the digestive tract, producing diarrhoea. 
Hence the throat is ready for the diphtheria germ and the 
intestine for the typhoid germ if they come along. 

Scarlet Fever (Scarlatina). The greatest susceptibility is 
before five years old. It incubates usually for four days (the 
limits are one to seven). Symptoms : On the first day the 
child feels sick, and the throat is sore. On the second day a 
brilliant rash appears on the upper part of the chest. The 
rash consists of fine pin-spots (compare measles). The " white 
strawberry tongue " is a characteristic symptom for the first 
two days. The rash spreads over the body and usually begins 
to fade after a few days. By the fourth day the white fur 
comes off the tongue and we get a " pink strawberry tongue " 
absolutely characteristic of the disease. The patient feels 
pretty well in two or three weeks. Peeling usually begins in 



192 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

about ten days, and to stop the bits of skin flying about in 
the air it is well to oil the body. The skin comes off in the 
largest flakes on the soles of the feet, the palms of the hands 
and the outer edge of the ear, and if you are suspicious that a 
child in school has had scarlet fever and has been sent back 
to school too soon, these are the places to look at. The 
peeling used to be considered the most infectious stage, but 
this idea is exploded. The most infectious time is the first 
week, when the throat is sore and the rash is out. 

The duration of infection is six weeks. 

Spread of infection, (i) Very slight, undetected cases may 
give others quite a severe form of the disease. (2) Running 
from the eyes or ears may last for months and spread the 
disease wholesale. 

Complications, (i) Kidney disease, hence the need of 
care to avoid chills during convalescence. One sign of it is 
blood in the urine. (2) Ear discharge. (3) Rheumatism. 

Smallpox. Before vaccination was introduced, smallpox 
was the most fatal disease in the world. The three places 
in England where there have been recent epidemics, viz. 
Leicester, Glasgow and Gloucester, are the three places where 
the magistrates were most lax in enforcing vaccination. In 
the Gloucester epidemic, w r hich occurred in 1895-96, two 
hundred and seventy-nine un vaccinated children, and one 
vaccinated child died. The nurses in smallpox hospitals are 
always vaccinated, and practically never catch the disease. 
Indian Army men are also always vaccinated and smallpox 
is very rare amongst them, in spite of the prevalence of the 
disease in India. Probably about fifty per cent of mothers get 
out of vaccination on the conscientious objection score, and 
so England is rapidly becoming unvaccinated, and some day 
we shall all suffer for it. The incubation is twelve days. The 
symptoms are headache, backache, rigors, rise of temperature. 
On the third day the rash appears, first on the forehead and 
wrists, as small red spots which soon get hard, and fe^l like 
shot under the skin. These spread over the whole body and 
fill with water which turns to matter, each mattery head being 
surrounded by a red inflamed ring. In an unvaccinated 
person these pocks may be so close that the whole body is one 



PHYSICAL DISABILITIES OF CHILDREN 193 

mattery mass of sores, there not being a place where one can 
touch the patient between them. Meanwhile the temperature 
goes up very high and the patient is violently delirious. If a 
pock comes on the eye it produces blindness. In any case 
the person is marked with the typical " pits " for life. In the 
days of the Stuarts any woman who was not marked with 
smallpox was accounted a beauty in virtue of that fact. In 
the East it was considered so inevitable and so dangerous 
that people used to inoculate themselves with the disease 
from smallpox patients, because thus they got it more lightly, 
and the practice was introduced into England by Lady Mary 
Montagu. 

So matters stood till Jenner discovered vaccination. He 
was the son of the vicar of Berkeley, in Gloucestershire, and 
was born in 1749, and his grave can be seen in Berkeley 
church. The district is typically agricultural, and Jenner 
noticed that dairymaids and anyone else who had much to do 
with cows suffered from a disease called cowpox (Vaccinia) 
which they caught from the cows, but that they very rarely 
caught smallpox. This suggested to him the idea that cow- 
pox protected a person from smallpox, and hence that it 
would be a good thing if everyone had cowpox, which was a 
quite slight disease. So he started the idea of vaccination, 
i.e. of injecting some of the watery fluid from the blebs which 
occur in cowpox into human beings. Now, in those days, 
antiseptics and disinfectants were unknown, and the idea of 
sterilising surgical implements and of cleanliness as we 
conceive it was also unknown, and so many accidents occurred 
in the early cases of vaccination, owing to the introduction 
of dirt and other germs during the operation. Thus blood- 
poisoning, etc., sometimes resulted, and hence a good deal of 
criticism was directed against vaccination. However, as time 
went on, methods improved, and now there is no danger of 
poisoning or of the introduction of tuberculosis or other 
diseases. This has been partly brought about by the doing 
away with the old method of vaccinating one child from 
another. Nowadays the vaccine is got from a calf kept in 
a Government laboratory. Vaccination effects complete 
protection for about seven years and partial protection for 
13 



194 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

life. If two vaccinations were compulsory, say at birth and 
twelve years old, we should be almost completely protected 
for life. 

Chicken-pox. Incubates from twelve to nineteen days. 
Symptoms : The child often does not feel ill at all, and the 
first sign is the rash, which comes first on the body, and 
consists of red spots which quickly turn into vesicles, or watery 
blebs, which dry off into scabs in a few days. The scabs fall 
off in about a fortnight. Infection lasts for at least three 
weeks, or till all the scabs are off. 

Mumps. Incubates from seven to twenty-one days. The 
germ attacks the salivary glands, chiefly the parotid, i.e. the 
glands at the angle of the jaw, in front of the ear, and 
usually one side is attacked before the other, producing a 
wide smooth swelling. It may also attack the sub-maxillary 
and sub-lingual glands, giving fold on fold of " double 
chin." The swelling subsides in a week or a fortnight. 
It can be distinguished from the swellings due to tooth- 
ache or swollen lymphatic glands because these are both 
much more local. 

Infection lasts at least three weeks. 

The chief cause of the spread is the child who is sent back 
after four or five days by the mother, who says it has had bad 
toothache. 

Treatment. Keep warm and away from others. Young 
children can stay in bed a few days. 

German Measles. Incubates from fifteen to eighteen 
days, usually. (Extremes are ten to twenty-one days.) 
Usually a rose-red flush on the face is the first symptom, 
Enlargement of the lymphatic glands at the back of the 
neck is very common. There is usually slight headache 
and often slight cold in the head. Infection lasts three 
weeks. 

Infantile Paralysis. This is due to a germ which is supposed 
to be carried by the stable-fly, which breeds in stable manure. 
Hence the desirability of regulations as to (i) the keeping of 
such manure in covered receptacles so as to exclude flies and 
prevent them from breeding, and (2) the frequent removal 
of the manure. Jt occurs chiefly in children under six. It 



PHYSICAL DISABILITIES OF CHILDREN 195 

begins with a feverish cold, like measles. In the mildest 
form the muscles become very weak for a short time, but 
paralysis usually sets in, either temporarily or permanently. 
Small groups of muscles only may be affected or one or more 
limbs may be rendered helpless. The disease is infectious in 
the early stages, for about a month, and therefore children 
should be isolated, and among the poor they should be 
removed to hospital. Contacts should be excluded from 
school. 



CHAPTER XIX 

PHYSICAL DISABILITIES (continued) 

Tuberculosis. In England and Wales there are 50,000 
deaths annually from tuberculosis, i.e. one in ten of all deaths 
are due to this disease. Only comparatively recently has it 
been recognised as infectious and due to a germ, the tubercle 
bacillus, a little rod-shaped plant. It is essentially a disease 
of civilisation, where there are several varieties of germ, of 
which the human and the bovine are the most important. 
Twenty-five to thirty per cent of cows are tuberculous in this 
country. These do not all necessarily give tuberculous milk, 
for, as a rule, the disease must attack the udder for milk to be 
tuberculous. However, about ten per cent of all samples of 
milk are tuberculous ; e.g. Liverpool, in 1912, showed 7*4% 
of milk samples with the tubercle bacillus ; Manchester, in 
ten years, showed 8-1% of milk with the tubercle bacillus ; 
Birmingham, in 1912, showed 19*6% of milk samples with the 
tubercle bacillus ; and Edinburgh showed thirteen to twenty 
per cent of milk samples with the tubercle bacillus. Further, 
human beings are susceptible to the bovine bacillus, and in 
children a good deal of tubercle is due to this type of bacillus 
attacking glands or bones. In children these types of tuber- 
culosis are much commoner than lung-tubercle (phthisis), 
whereas in adults the reverse is the case. Phthisis is always 
due to the human bacillus. 

Susceptibility. Post-mortem examinations show the enor- 
mous extent to which we all take in the germ of tubercle 
and lodge it temporarily, at least ; e.g. in one series of observa- 
tions, eighty-five per cent of hospital post-mortems between 
ten and eleven years showed tubercle, but it was mostty 
healed ; that is, most of us are infected at some time or other, 

196 



PHYSICAL DISABILITIES 197 

but the majority recover without ever being aware of the 
fact. 

Types of Tuberculosis. The germ may attack pretty 
nearly any part of the body : e.g. (i) The lungs, producing 
phthisis. About one in two hundred children suffer from this. 
(2) The bones, producing struma, which causes spinal curvature 
(acute backward) ; hip disease, knee disease, etc. This form of 
the disease is by no means uncommon, tending to swollen joints 
which break down owing to the action of the bacillus on the 
bone and discharge pus, and often the end is loss of use of the 
joint. N.B. Mothers often say that hip or spine disease is 
due to a fall, but usually there has been no such accident 
really accounting for it. (3) Lymphatic glands (producing 
scrofula) , especially the glands at the side of the neck. Chronic 
swelling or suppuration of these is usually tubercular. (4) 
Eye. Many chronically inflamed eyes are tuberculous. (5) 
Ear. (6) Brain, producing meningitis. (7) Skin, producing 
lupus. (8) Intestines. About two per cent of children suffer 
from foims two to eight, so that phthisis is by no means the 
commonest form in children. In addition we have ten per 
cent of children who are classed as pre-tuberculous, and these 
largely coincide with the children suffering from malnutrition. 
In fact, one writer says, " Malnutrition is tuberculosis." 
This is going far, but at any rate these ill-nourished chil- 
dren are potential if not actual harbourers of the tubercle 
bacillus. 

Symptoms of Phthisis (Lung -Tubercle). Cough, loss of 
weight (hence one reason for taking the weights of school 
children), the child looks ill and out -of -sorts, has a pretty 
pink flush, slight rise of temperature, quickened breathing, 
unnaturally bright eyes, after a time expectoration with the 
cough. This is full of germs, which float in the air when 
dry. 

Cause. Usually the disease arises from living in the same 
house with a consumptive who is careless about expectoration. 
Families are often decimated in this way. The next most 
important cause is the inhaling of the germs in stuffy public 
buildings (theatres, picture palaces, etc.), and in trams, 
trains, and the street. 



198 



A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 



Treatment has been revolutionised within the last few 
years, with the result that the death-rate is now declining, 
and very largely owing to the work done by teachers in the 
elementary schools. 

i. The first thing to emphasise is the iniquity of the con- 
sumptive spitting about, and the only practical way to do 




Disinfectant 



Fig-. 68. Expectoration cup for use indoors 
The funnel can be removed, so that the cup can be easily cleaned 

this is to demand (a) that nobody shall expectorate in streets, 
trams, halls, etc. Hence the notices one sees in such places ; 
(b) that the consumptive shall expectorate into a special cup 




Fig. 69. Expectoration flask for use out-of-doors 

The flask is flattened, so that it easily goes into a pocket 
and can be taken out and concealed in a handkerchief. It 
has a screw stopper at each end, so that it is easily cleaned 

or flask or into a handkerchief of so little value that it can be 
burnt, and not washed. 

2. The second point to teach is the need of fresh air. A 
few years ago more soldiers and sailors died of consumption 



PHYSICAL DISABILITIES 199 

than did men of any other calling, and on investigation it was 
found that they slept in very crowded quarters with windows 
shut, and the thing was remedied in eighteen months by 
enlarging the sleeping-quarters and keeping the windows 
open. Consumption is now rarer in the Army and Navy than 
in any other calling. If one can only get a person to keep the 
bearoom window open for a fortnight, he rarely goes back to 
keeping it shut. 

3. The third point is the need of good food ; (i) is for the 
sake of the community ; one can live quite safely in the same 
house as a consumptive who is careful ; e.g. nurses in Con- 
sumptive Sanatoria rarely catch the disease, but any patient 
who expectorated carelessly would be promptly turned out ; 
(2) and (3) are for the sake of the individual himself. 

Sanatorium Treatment. The Finance Act of 1911 made 
1,500,000 available for provision of Sanatoria and other 
institutions for the treatment of tuberculosis in the United 
Kingdom. Of this amount 100,000 was ear-marked for 
sanatorium schools for children. The distribution of these 
grants rested with the Local Government Board. By agree- 
ment with them the Board of Education approved the plans 
and arrangements for the education of the children. Sana- 
torium treatment is very expensive and it must be prolonged 
(say for three years) to effect cure. It is doubtful if we have 
not been regarding the sanatorium in the wrong light hitherto, 
i.e. as a place for curing tuberculosis, and whether its true 
function is not to educate patients to live the right kind of life 
at home. Anyone can do it, given a bit of garden, a shelter 
and good food, and if we consider the sanatorium in this 
latter light, a short stay (e.g. three months) will suffice, and 
the problem presents nothing like so vast a difficulty as it has 
hitherto done. In the case of children, if they do go to a 
sanatorium, it should be combined with a school, so that the 
children do not fall hopelessly into arrears educationally, 
and in practice they are found to be much happier when they 
have lessons than when all day is on their hands. We have 
at present six day schools and thirty residential sanatorium 
schools for children suffering from tuberculosis, either pul- 
monary or surgical. This does not include the open-air schools 



200 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

and classrooms, of which sixteen day and fifteen residential 
exist, because these usually only take pre-tuberculous 
children or children recovering from tubercle, not actually 
diseased children. In the sanatorium school lessons are 
shortened to half the usual length, but the children, as a rule, 
keep up with their standard. Everything is done in the open 
air. But more and more people are realising that the child 
who pays best for special school treatment is the pre-tuber- 
culous. It is much easier to prevent than to cure tubercle. 
Hence these pre-tuberculous cases should have the first claim 
to any open-air education existing. (See Chapter XXVI.) 

How to Prevent Tubercle Attacking Bones and 
Glands. This would largely be effected if all milk were 
sterilised, and still more if tuberculous cows were weeded out. 

Heredity. The disease is not hereditary, but the tendency 
is strongly so. Hence the risk if consumptives marry. 

Infection in School. From this standpoint tubercle can be 
divided into " open " and " closed." About one in five 
hundred cases are " open," i.e. there is some kind of discharge, 
e.g. cough and expectoration, or mattery discharge from an 
abscess in a gland or bone. Such children or teachers should 
be excluded. The " closed " cases show no discharge and 
are therefore not infectious. 



CHAPTER XX 
NERVOUS CONDITIONS 

Choiea, epilepsy, hysteria, stammering. 

1. Chorea (St. Vitus' Dance) is of great interest in school 
hygiene. It is, for all practical purposes, rheumatism of the 
brain and often leads to heart-disease, like all forms of 
rheumatism. It is much commoner in girls than in boys. It 
rarely occurs before seven or after fourteen. 

Symptoms. The first is often suddenly developed fidgets 
and clumsiness. The tongue is a good indicator ; on asking 
the child to put out the tongue, one sees that it jerks and 
is out of control. As the disease progresses, the child is 
never at rest, some muscles are always moving, and the 
brain shares in the jerkiness of the body, i.e. it is unable 
to concentrate attention, and headaches, etc., result. 

Treatment. Open air, good food, rest and especially absence 
of all nervous excitement. Hence the child should not be in 
school. If taken in time it can usually be cured in a few weeks, 
but occasionally it continues for years. When the child 
returns to school, do not press it. 

The cause may be fright or other emotional disturbances, 
overwork, etc. 

2. Epilepsy is due to an irritable and unstable brain-cortex. 
It is strongly hereditary and " many are also said to give the 
reaction for syphilis " (Kerr), therefore epileptics ought not 
to marry. Gowers found that fifty per cent of the descendants 
of epileptics were epileptic. Also, instead of being epileptics, 
they may be mentally deficient, i.e. considerably more than 
fifty per cent of the descendants are either epileptic or mentally 
defective. There are two types of epilepsy : Major and 
Minor. 

201 



202 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

Symptoms of Major Epilepsy. Momentary palsy of the 
face, then sudden unconsciousness, stiffening of the body, 
convulsions for two or three minutes, during which the move- 
ments of the jaw work the saliva up into froth, so that the 
person " foams at the mouth," and may bite the tongue. 
The limbs work convulsively, and the face is distorted and 
blue. This is followed often by half an hour's unconsciousness, 
or sometimes merely by drowsiness. After unconsciousness 
has passed off the person is often " off his head " for an hour 
or two and therefore should not be left, because he may go 
out and drown himself, etc. 

Treatment. Lay the person on his back, get furniture 
against which he may strike himself out of the way, put some- 
thing, such as the lid of a pencil box between the teeth to 
prevent the tongue being bitten (some doctors consider this 
unnecessary), and do not restrain the movements of the 
limbs more than just enough to stop injury, for if held down 
rigidly the muscles may tear under the strain. Diet is im- 
portant, the best being an exclusively milk diet, or one with 
very little meat and that well-cooked and minced, to avoid 
irritation to the nerves from the bolting of big pieces. At 
Lingfield Colony, where there are 126 children, the diet is 
chiefly vegetarian. The drugs usually prescribed are bromides. 

Education. Eighty per cent of epileptic children are unfit 
for the ordinary school for the following reasons : (i) They 
are generally dull, even in facial expression. (2) They are 
often unduly emotional (especially smiling). (3) Speech is 
usually indistinct and defective and acquired late. (4) Fits 
occurring in school place undue strain on the teacher and the 
rest of the class. On the other hand, it is very important 
that these children should be educated, to stop the mental 
deterioration which usually sets in. At present six epileptic 
schools exist, accommodating 500 children altogether. These 
should form parts of a Colony, providing plenty of outdoor 
work, but, of course, preventing marriage. Apparently, 
6,430 epileptic children exist, excluding London, in England 
and Wales. 

The symptoms of minor epilepsy are slight and transitory, 
the fit beir.g a wave of unconsciousness only producing 



NERVOUS CONDITIONS 203 

momentary interruption of occupation. The child goes 
white, gets rigid for an instant, then goes on as usual, but 
he may do some irresponsible action, such as hitting his 
neighbour without cause. If the fit occurs whilst the child 
is riding a bicycle, say, he may fall off. The results are as 
serious as those of the major type, if not more so. Some 
authorities state that this form is more often associated with 
mental enfeeblement than is the major, and is less hopeful. 

Psychasthenia, Neurasthenia, and especially Hysteria 
are probably the typical nervous disorders of women, says Mr. 
Havelock Ellis, in his interesting book, Man and Woman. 
The two former are a large collection of vague nervous symp- 
toms which not all authorities reckon as a definite disorder. 
" The symptoms are, generally speaking, a weakness of the 
Nervous System including both brain and spinal cord - 
due partly to insufficient or inappropriate nutrition and 
partly to faulty development, showing itself by a tendency 
to over-action and irritability of the Nervous System, morbid 
sensibility and mental anxiety, etc." " The neurasthenic 
condition is the soil on which organic nervous diseases may 
grow . . . and we find it with special frequency in both men 
and women who overstrain their brains, in artists and writers 
and those who are over-strenuous in social movements." 

" Hysteria, which is one of the chief of the more definite 
diseases to which neurasthenia may lead, has no necessary 
connection with this kind of mental tension. It occurs with 
much greater frequency among those whose nervous activities 
are unemployed." Hysteria affects the whole Nervous 
System, and specially the brain, and in it, response to sugges- 
tion, which is a normal character of all nervous tissue, is so 
heightened that it becomes irresistible and may be aroused 
by the faintest suggestion from without or within. Sydenham 
says that there are very few women except those leading a 
hard and laborious life who are entirely exempt from hysteria. 
Kraepelin states that seventy per cent of women are hysteric. 
Hysteria is specially common in emotional girls at the afe 
of puberty. Symptoms. Emotional outbursts, morbid 
sensations (ball in throat, etc.). The fit starts gradually, 
with crying, laughing, or other emotional display ; then the 



204 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

girl falls with a scream and seems convulsed and insensible ; 
but one need not fear injury in falling, for always she has 
" one eye open " to note the effect on the audience. An 
intense desire for sympathy is very characteristic. 

Treatment. Give no sympathy, turn out sympathisers ; 
speak severely and tell the girl to behave sensibly. If this has 
no effect, leave her alone and the fit always stops pretty soon. 

Stammering . This is essentially a nervous disorder, due to 
excessive attention to the mechanism of articulation, i.e. to 
muscles of mouth, tongue, lips, etc., and lack of attention to 
the respiratory mechanism. This results in an overflow of 
nervous energy from the articulatory muscles to others not 
directly connected with speech, and so accounts for the facial 
contortions and jerkings of head and limbs often observed in 
stammerers ; meanwhile speech is attempted with half-empty 
lungs, and so we get spasmodic stops, repetitions, etc. 

This state of affairs may be due to various causes : e.g. to 
general shyness and nervousness, to a neuropathic heredity, 
or to shock. Imitation plays a considerable part in causing 
stammering, and again, stammering often begins after an 
acute attack of infectious disease, and in some cases it seems to 
be associated with the presence of enlarged tonsils or adenoids. 

Boys stammer much more than girls, in the proportion of 
three to one, and often the condition becomes much more 
severe between the ages of eleven and fourteen. " In severe 
cases the condition of the patient is one of great embarrass- 
ment and even misery. This attitude of the patient towards 
other people is often out of all proportion to the severity of 
the case, and in many cases timidity seems to be the under- 
lying characteristic, and to form indeed the basis on which 
stuttering arises." 

Treatment. This is sometimes easy and sometimes very 
difficult, but, in practice, many cases respond to class-treat- 
ment of the right kind. Such treatment should aim at three 
essentials, namely (i) attention to the general health, including 
such conditions as malnutrition, anaemia, decayed teeth, 
adenoids, overstrain, constipation, lack of fresh air and 
exercise ; (2) attention to the mental condition, which is 
often very unstable and restless and lacking in self-control. 



NERVOUS CONDITIONS 205 

Here one must try to develop self-control, belief in the teacher 
and in the possibility of cure. (3) The third essential is 
treatment of the actual defect, and here many methods have 
been tried, and many have had some amount of success in spite 
of themselves, so to speak, and owing to the fact that suggestion 
and confidence in the teacher play a large part in the cure of 
stammering. However, in school, the methods used aim at re- 
storing the right balance between the supplies of nerve-energy 
sent to the respiratory and articulatory muscles. Hence the 
child is given certain respiratory and vocal exercises in class 
once or twice daily. The best known vocal exercises are those 
of M. Leon Berquand. The children are collected into classes 
of ten to fifteen for a six weeks' course, during which the 
special exercises occupy three-quarters of an hour to one 
hour both morning and afternoon, the rest of the time being 
given to ordinary school work. For the first fortnight the 
children are not supposed to talk either in school or at 
home. They are given books in which to write what is 
necessary. 

The result is that usually, after a six or eight weeks' course, 
the children can both read and speak without stammering, 
but a good many relapse unless the treatment is kept up at 
intervals, say by Saturday classes, or by a yearly and longer 
repetition of the treatment. 

With regard to slight cases, treatment can often be given 
in the ordinary school, if only the class teacher will insist on 
the child's speaking slowly and beginning every sentence 
with the lungs full of air. 



CHAPTER XXI 
HEART DISEASE 1 AND RHEUMATISM 

HEART disease has important bearings on school life and 
subsequent employment. It may be what is called organic, 
i.e. involving actual defect in structure of some part of the 
heart, or it may be functional, i.e. the working of the heart 
may be abnormal. Also, it may be congenital or acquired. 
If it exists before four years old it is congenital. Organic 
disease is chiefly due to rheumatism. Functional irregu- 
larities are chiefly due to instability of the heart in childhood. 

Prevalence. The Reports of School Medical Officers for 
1915 give one to five per cent of children as having heart 
disease. Taking five per cent, this means about a quarter of 
a million children. In some districts higher returns are made, 
e.g. fourteen per cent in one place, and nine per cent in Leeds, 
and these divergences suggest that the doctors are not giving 
enough attention to the subject, which is a very important 
one because it is so necessary to try to remedy such a disabling 
condition ; e.g. to decide if the child should be away from 
school altogether or be at a special school. 

Points to bear in mind with regard to Heart Disease 
in School Children, (i) Serious heart disease means absence 
from school, and therefore the worst cases do not appear at 
medical inspection. (2) Heart disease in children differs from 
that in adults in several ways : e.g. the child's heart and 
circulatory system are growing and more susceptible to 
changes. Thus it is less stable and regular than that of the 
healthy adult, and the same applies to the Nervous System 
controlling it. Both respond readily 'and quickly to any body 
disturbance. (3) Every case of heart disease must be treated 

1 See Report of Chief Medical Officer of Board of Education for 1915. 

206 



HEART DISEASE AND RHEUMATISM 207 

individually. It isn't like a case of decayed teeth or adenoids, 
where the treatment is much the same for all, but the right 
handling of a heart case involves many considerations, such 
as preventive measures against rheumatism, rest, adaptation 
of the school curriculum, carefully supervised personal 
hygiene ; e.g. in Tunbridge Wells, the Education Authority 
has a printed leaflet on rheumatism which is distributed to 
the homes of children with heart disease, whenever it is 
considered advisable. It is as follows : 

" Rheumatic attacks in children are very easily over- 
looked, as the outward symptoms are usually quite trifling 
and likely to escape the notice of parents. At the same time, 
these slight attacks may permanently damage a child's heart 
and produce very serious results in later life. Hence it is 
very important that treatment should be secured immediately 
for rheumatism in its earliest stages and mildest forms. 
Symptoms which suggest that a child is suffering from the 
rheumatic poison : (i) Growing pains, especially pain in the 
ham-strings. (2) Repeated sore throat or tonsillitis. (3) 
Attacks of irritability, night terrors, twitching of the face or 
fingers, or clumsiness in children not usually troubled in these 
ways. (4) Certain rashes (e.g. spotted rose-rash, nettle-rash, 
etc.). Precautions that should be taken with rheumatic children : 
(i) Keep limbs and body warmly but lightly clothed, pre- 
ferably with woollen underclothing. (2) Put child to bed 
and obtain medical advice whenever feverishness, growing 
pains, sore throat or other symptoms of rheumatism are 
noticed. (3) Enlarged tonsils are better removed if a child 
suffers from repeated sore throat." 

Croydon also issues a leaflet. 

Rheumatism. In view of the important part which this 
disease plays in producing heart disease, I propose to discuss 
it rather more fully. The first point is that rheumatism is 
due to a germ or a group of germs ; it js an infection. Dr. 
Langmead says that at children's hospitals it is recognised 
that there are three infections of paramount importance, 
those of pneumonia, tubercle and rheumatism. The hereditary 
tendency to rheumatism is very marked. The poisons of the 
disease seem to so permeate the parent's tissues that the 



208 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

child's tissues are made very liable to attack, especially, of 
course, if both parents are rheumatic. 

How the Germ gets in. Many authorities attach great 
importance to the tonsils as the avenue of invasion, and 
probably the cases of rheumatism following infectious fevers 
are the result of the germs getting into the system during 
the sore throat period that usually occurs in these fevers. 
Hence in cases of enlarged tonsils it is advisable to have them 
operated on as a preventive against rheumatism, as well as 
because they interfere with nasal breathing and bring in their 
train all the various ills due to mouth-breathing. 

Effect of Environment. Cold and damp houses and sur- 
roundings favour the disease, especially the form of it which 
attacks the joints (arthritis), producing swollen and stiff 
joints. Also they greatly militate against recovery. Change- 
able temperature is also bad. 

Symptoms which should make one suspect Rheumatism 1 : 
(i) Heredity, i.e. presence in parents. (2) Anaemia is a 
constant associate of rheumatism. (3) Growing pains, 
especially about the ham-strings. (4) Frequent sore throats. 
(5) Nervous children are frequently rheumatic. (6) Rashes, 
such as spotted rose-rash and nettle-rash. (7) Dilated heart. 
(8) Chorea, which is brain rheumatism. 

1 See School Hygiene, Feb., 1915, Discussion on Rheumatism 



CHAPTER XXII 
TEMPERANCE 

Methods of teaching Knowledge alone insufficient' Board's syllabus 
of lessons on temperance Alcohol: chemical and physical 
properties, preparation, percentage in beverages, effects on the 
body and brain, effects of intemperance on individual, home and 
State. 

Methods of Teaching. The Board of Education suggests 
that at least three lessons be given yearly and fairly close 
together, but there is probably not much sense in beginning 
under ten. At any rate, if one does begin under ten, the 
teaching must only be of a very general and broad kind. The 
evil consequences of intemperance should only be taught to 
children over twelve. The subject of Temperance should be 
part of the Hygiene teaching, not isolated into a mysterious 
and horrible watertight compartment. This is one reason 
why it is best given by a member of the regular staff and not by 
an outside temperance lecturer, as has sometimes been done. 
Another reason is that the " Temperance Lecturer " is given 
to being lurid, and to rather unscientific statements and 
arguments which cannot exactly be proved, and the result 
sometimes has been more harm than good, for the child has 
gone home, repeated the exaggerated statements as to the 
results of drinking a glass of beer, and the parents, who may 
be temperate users of alcohol, are naturally annoyed and vent 
their annoyance on the child and on the school, pouring 
contempt on the teaching and doing all they can to belittle it 
to the child. Hence one wants to avoid intemperate teaching 
of temperance, and to teach temperate use of everything, 
including food and drink, as a part of general self-control ; 
and here it is well to remember that one can be intemperate 
14 209 



210 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

in the use of other drink besides alcohol. Many women ruin 
their health by excessive tea-drinking. Now, the question of 
self-control is about the most important one there is in relation 
to any life. It depends on the amount of inborn will-power 
and on the training of that power, as we said in an earlier 
lecture, and on it depends very largely the career, success or 
failure, of the owner. As a matter of fact, a large proportion 
(sixty-three per cent) of habitual drunkards are so because 
they are mentally deficient and have that outstanding 
characteristic of the mentally deficient, viz. weak will. This 
statement has the authority of Dr. Branthwaite, Inspector 
under the Inebriates Act. It follows that many chronic 
inebriates should be treated for mental weakness, not as 
criminals. To return to the question of teaching temperance, 
note that the word used is temperance, not total-abstinence. 
Now certain writers argue that all use of alcohol is bad, but 
whether that is an entirely justifiable statement is doubtful. 
It can, however, be safely said that alcohol is not a necessity, 
except in certain illnesses, and even there it is less used by 
doctors than it used to be. On the other hand, at present 
the public-house stands to the labourer in place of the club 
and the cafe to a different social group, and if one is going 
to tell the so-called working man that he must give up beer, 
one ought to provide a substitute. Now our cafes and tea- 
shops, as they stand at present, are not attractive to nor 
suited to the working man any more than are a good many 
of our churches. Yet one must face the fact that he needs a 
place where he can get food and drink with some stimulant 
property when he is tired just as he needs a place where he 
can get food for his soul. Our reformers should see to the 
provision of both of these needs, before they demand pro- 
hibition of alcohol, or wonder at the emptiness of some of 
our churches. The complexity of the temperance question is 
well expressed in the following quotation from Peabody's 
Jesus Christ and the Social Question. 

" A striking illustration of this expansion and transformation 
of one social question into other forms is to be found in the 
later developments of the so-called temperance cause. Here 
is a social movement which has been very generally regarded 



TEMPERANCE 211 

as an isolated and specialised work. A few obvious remedies 
have seemed sufficient to meet the portentous evil of the 
drink habit. The pledge of abstinence, the prohibition of 
sale, the physiological instruction of clerics, the constant 
agitation of public sentiment, these and kindred methods of 
direct reform have appeared to bound the sphere of temper- 
ance work. More and more, however, it has become evident 
that, beyond these specific agencies of reform, there are, on 
every side of the temperance question, influences and move- 
ments which are among its most threatening enemies or its 
most powerful allies. Domestic, economic, even psychological 
and racial conditions are intimately correlated with the 
problem of drink. Is it drink which destroys the family 
or is it the disordered family life which tempts to drink ? Is 
the drink habit a morbid passion, or is it in many cases a 
normal and healthy craving for recreation which drives men 
to the saloon ? Is it true, as one distinguished economist has 
said, that the thirst for liquor among working men is not so 
much a question of drink as of food, and that to know why a 
poor man drinks one has but to look in his dinner-pail ? 

Is it drink which robs men of their earnings, or is it the 
fluctuation of earnings which drives men to drink ? Would 
the drink traffic be less pernicious if wisely converted into a 
municipal industry? Is the moral tone of the community 
weakened by prohibitory legislation ? How does it happen 
that the wine-drinking peoples oi South Europe are temperate 
and the ale-drinking Anglo-Saxons intemperate ? These 
are but indications of the varied enquiries which now confront 
anyone who looks below the surface of the problem of tem- 
perance. What seemed to be a detached question concerning 
a personal habit is in fact correlated with almost every move- 
ment of social or economic reform. 

The most effective attack upon the drink habit may come 
of some flank movement, in the interest of better homes, or 
healthy amusement, or regular work, or nourishing food, or 
State control, or the education of a new and superior desire. 
. . . Temperance reform is but a labour of Sisyphus, and the 
burden it desires to remove rolls back on the community 
again, unless the agitation is constantly directed, not so much 



212 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

to the hampering of a trade, as to the disciplining of a passion. 
The drink habit is in very large degree the perversion of the 
most universal of human desires, the thirst for exhilaration, 
recreation and joy, and to remove the only available means 
for satisfying this normal craving without providing adequate 
substitutes, is like blocking the channel where a stream does 
harm without observing how many new fields the same stream 
is likely to devastate." 

Will Knowledge alone produce Temperance ? Remem- 
bering what we said just now about the need of a strong will, 
and remembering also that will is inborn, though it may be 
strengthened by training, and further, that we are born with 
very unequal amounts of will, it is probable that knowledge 
alone will not suffice to make humanity temperate. Most of 
us know it does not, in actual practice, for there are various 
things that we know bring bad results, and that we yet go on 
doing. Hence one needs to back up knowledge with the 
stiffening that one can only get from religion which can 
provide sufficient driving force for even the weak-willed. If 
you once convince a person that his body is the Temple of 
the Holy Ghost, he is not likely to make a beast of himself 
cither with drink or with any other form of self-indulgence, 
and there are considerably worse forms of intemperance than 
the alcoholic form. 

Total Abstinence. My own feeling about this is that it 
must depend on (i) whether your own health requires it ; 
(2) whether you live in a community where alcoholic 
excess is fairly common, and where the example of your 
total abstinence is likely to help matters. That is, I think, 
quite clearly the teaching of Christianity. " All things 
lawful, but all things not expedient." 

Subject -matter. In the set lessons on temperance, it is 
best to follow the " Syllabus of Lessons on Temperance," 1 
issued by the Board of Education, price 2d. Section I deals 
with eating and drinking : food and its use. (See Chaps. 
VI. and VII.) 

Section II deals with alcohol and its effects on the body. 

Characteristics of Alcohol. It is a colourless liquid, boil- 
ing at 78C. and freezing at - 130 '5 C. It burns with a nearly 

1 Revised in 1920, and now issued under the title Hygiene of Food 
and Drink. 



TEMPERANCE 213 

colourless flame, leaving no ash, and giving off carbon dioxide 
and water ; hence its use as a fuel. It evaporates quickly, 
hence the cooling effect of eau-de-Cologne. It is hygroscopic! 
i.e. absorbs water easily. It hardens proteids because it 
coagulates them, e.g. (i) if you add alcohol to the white of 
a raw egg, the albumen becomes hard and opaque ; e.g. (2) 
put absolute alcohol on the lips, and they go pale and cor- 
rugated, because the alcohol absorbs water from them and 
coagulates the proteid in the cells, so that the contents shrivel. 
This also explains why alcohol is useful for pickling and 
preserving specimens. It dissolves various substances insoluble 
in water, e.g. resins. Hence its use in manufactures, etc. 

Preparation . Alcohol is made by the fermentation of sugar, 
obtained from fruit juice (e.g. grapes, apples, pears), or from 
starch in the form of grain, potatoes, etc., which is first 
converted into sugar and then the sugar is fermented. Fer- 
mentation is due to the growth of a microscopic plant called 
yeast in the liquid. The yeast feeds on it and alters the sugar 
into carbon dioxide and alcohol. The carbon dioxide is given 
off as gas. The alcohol is got from the solution by distillation. 
When starch is the source of the alcohol, the conversion into 
sugar is effected either by boiling with dilute acid, or by 
another fermentation process which occurs spontaneously if 
grain be kept moist and warm, so that it begins to sprout. 
The germinating grain is called malt. 

Percentage of Alcohol in various Beverages. Lager beer, 
about four per cent ; bottled beer, about seven per cent ; claret, 
hock, etc., about nine to ten per cent ; port, seventeen to 
twenty-three per cent ; spirits : gin, thirty-seven per cent ; 
rum, whisky, and brandy, forty to fifty per cent. 

Effects of Alcohol on the Body. The amount of alcohol 
needed to produce these effects varies with the individual, 
but the latest investigations show that moderate doses have 
no ill-effects on a normal person, so long as they are not taken 
so frequently that the percentage of alcohol in the blood 
keeps above a certain limit, as is the case in chronic alcoholism. 
Alcohol may be regarded as a food, inasmuch as it is oxidised 
in the body, and so gives heat and energy ; and the rapidity 
with which this happens makes it useful in certain diseases. 



214 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

It should, however, be taken with food and not in a con- 
centrated form. These conditions are fulfilled in the wine- 
drinking countries of South Europe, where intemperance is 
much rarer than in England. The habitual toper by fifty 
always shows more or less of the following symptoms : 

(a) The Cell. The chief effect of alcohol is on the Nervous 
System, and the cells of the brain and spinal cord may there- 
fore be expected to show changes, and they do. A nerve- 
cell normally contains in its protoplasm little spindle-shaped 
bodies which give it a granular look, and the protoplasm if 
active can take up stains. In the alcoholic subject, the cell is 
swollen, the nucleus pushed to the border, the spindle -bodies 
are no longer clearly defined and vacuoles (or spaces) are 
present. The cell has no or little power to take up stains. 
Similar changes occur in the body cells, with the result that 
the drinker tends to get fat and bloated. The swelling of the 
cells is due to oil globules developing in them and finally oil 
may completely replace the protoplasm, producing " fatty 
degeneration." Later on the cells shrink and the fibrous 
supporting tissue of the whole organ increases and tends to 
contract, and the result is that the heart has harder work 
to pump the blood through the shrunken organ. Hence 
there is undue strain on the heart which often produces 
heart disease, and so death, which should be ascribed to 
alcohol, though it never is. 

(b) Effect on the blood. Alcohol decreases the oxygen- 
carrying power of the red corpuscles. Hence there is insuffi- 
cient oxygen in the body to oxidise the food. Hence there is 
insufficient heat and energy, i.e. the person is chilly and 
lethargic. It also decreases the power of the white corpuscles 
to devour germs, therefore there is greater liability to catch 
infectious diseases and to die of them when caught. 

(c) Effect on warmth of the body. A dose of alcohol distends 
the skin capillaries, which consequently fill up with blood 
drawn off from the internal organs. This means that the 
skin flushes, and we have a comforting sensation of warmth, 
owing to the effect of this extra blood on the nerve-endings in 
the dermis. However, under these conditions the skin gives 
off heat faster to the air, and so, on the whole, heat is lost, 



TEMPERANCE 215 

in spite of the fact that the alcohol does produce a certain 
amount during its oxidation in the body. 

(d) The effect on digestion is due to several things : (i) 
Alcohol coagulates proteids and therefore hardens them 
and makes them less easy to digest. Cp. egg raw and cooked. 
(2) It produces an increased blood supply to the stomach- 
lining and therefore increased gastric juice. (3) It produces 
increased flow of mucus also, which is bad for digestion, and 
(4) is followed by the crinkling-up of the stomach lining and a 
decrease of gastric juice. (5) The liver is congested in early 
alcoholism and later contracts and the surface gets knobbly 
owing to the growth of connective tissue. Hence the liver 
cannot do its work. (6) The kidneys suffer. The total effect 
is indigestion. 

(e) Effect on growth. Children are much more sensitive 
to alcohol than adults, and a good many infants are given 
it daily, and a still larger number get it occasionally. It 
stunts both mind and body, and there is absolutely no 
question about the need of total abstinence for chil- 
dren. 

(/) Effect on capacity for work. Excessive drinking, since 
it weakens the heart and muscles, necessarily reduces capacity 
for work ; e.g. (i) Sir F. Treves in the South African War 
found that soldiers who drank much were the first to fall out 
on a long march and were less able to stand hardship than 
those who were temperate or abstainers. (2) Athletes in 
training for sports avoid alcohol. 

(g) Effects on the Brain. These being more important than 
any of the body-effects, are placed last. 

Alcohol is essentially a narcotic, not a stimulant, and it 
affects the brain with extreme rapidity, acting first on the 
highest centres, i.e. the self-critical centres, and those govern- 
ing memory, attention, reason, judgment and the other 
higher intellectual functions. Later, it affects the lower 
centres of the cerebellum, and then co-ordination of muscular 
action becomes impaired, the gait becomes unsteady, the 
hand shakes, and so on. Finally the vital centres in the 
medulla are affected, i.e. those controlling breathing, the 
beating of the heart, and so on, and in this stage of " dead- 



216 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

drunkenness " the patient is likely to die unless prompt 
measures are taken to restore him. 

However, to return to the first effects of alcohol, it is often 
said that exhilaration is one of the earliest results, but this is 
really only a case of paralysis or deadening of the self-conscious 
and self-critical centres in the brain, and the corresponding 
unchecked action of the emotions. The drinker is more 
easily amused, depressed, etc., by trivial occurrences, and he 
ceases to realise true dangers, difficulties, and causes of anxiety. 
This is bad, except in the comparatively few cases where 
relaxation of nervous tension is needed, as, for instance, a 
soldier needs it, on coming out of the trenches. However, 
the effect on the brain is extremely variable, and in some cases 
the brain seems to escape. Probably one of the chief attrac- 
tions of alcohol is the false sense of freshness, of freedom from 
care and anxiety and worry and of general well-being which it 
imparts, and there is a type of highly strung nervous tem- 
perament to which alcohol is therefore a great temptation. 

Section III. Evil Consequences of Intemperance to 
the Individual, to the Home, and to the State. 

Excess of alcohol not only has the bad effects on the 
individual mentioned in the last section, but it has still 
worse effects, it may mean moral injury to himself and great 
harm to other people. Excess means gradual loss of self- 
control, and since it also originates in a lack of this com- 
modity, children should be disciplined in such a way as to 
strengthen will and character. The consequences include : 
(a) Waste of money which might be saved, or spent more 
wisely. Often the family goes short of food, clothes, fire, 
doctor, etc., in order to pay for alcohol. There is no chance 
of improving the conditions of life, no margin for the " rainy 
day." (b) Loss of self-respect, carelessness about appearance, 
cleanliness, clothing, truth, industry, (c) Loss of employment, 
pauperism. The drunkard becomes idle, useless, a loafer, 
finally merely a burden on the rates, (d) Neglect of duty, 
leading sometimes to serious consequences for others, e.g. 
signalmen, taxi-drivers, etc. (e) Ruin of the home, which 
becomes more and more unhappy, poverty-stricken, etc. 
This is worse if the mother is the drunkard, because the children 



TEMPERANCE 217 

are more neglected and she often drags the man into the habit 
also. One must remember here, too, the power that the wife 
often has of keeping her husband out of the public-house if 
she can make the home comfortable. (/) Harm to the State. 
" One degraded or ill-conducted worker will demoralise a 
whole family ; one disorderly family inexplicably lowers the 
conduct of a whole street ; the low-caste life of a single street 
spreads its evil influence over the entire quarter ; and the 
slum quarter . . . subtly deteriorates the standard of 
health, morality and public spirit of the whole city." (Mrs. 
Sydney Webb.) Paupers have to be maintained by the 
public and this means less money for the tax-payer. The 
prosperity of a nation depends on its workers, and if many of 
these are incapable, the whole community suffers. 

In conclusion let us remember that more will be accom- 
plished in school incidentally and through the general 
standards and personality of the teacher than through the 
set lessons, useful as these may be. 

As regards the -literature of the subject, by far the best 
brief discussion is that given in the little book recently 
published by the Liquor Control Board, and entitled Alcohol. 
Its Action on the Human Organism. (Price is. from H.M. 
Stationery Office, London, S.W.) 



CHAPTER XXIII 
THE SCHOOL BUILDING AND ITS SURROUNDINGS 

Conditions of a healthy school : site, playgrounds and their possible 
uses, types of building, warming, lighting (day and artificial). 

Site. This should be open, airy, high-up, dry, near the 
centre of the area from which the children come, and not 
close to factories, railways, busy streets or slums. Lastly 
the soil should be clean, and the size sufficient. Clearly a 
good many of the above points are interdependent, e.g. the 
more open and the higher the site the more airy is it. The 
reasons which make the above conditions desirable are 
fairly obvious : thus (i) site should be open because if too 
close to other buildings or surrounded with trees, air and 
light are cut off and the playground is likely to be too small. 
(2) It should be near the centre of the area served so that no 
child may have too far to walk to school. (3) It should not 
be close to railways, factories, or busy streets because of the 
noise, which produces .nerve-strain on teacher and children, 
subconscious though the realisation of the noise may be. 
There is also the danger of traffic causing accidents. (4) Slums 
mean sights, sounds, and language that one wants to keep 
from the child's knowledge. (5) A dry site is desirable 
because damp buildings are bad for such diseases as 
rheumatism, tubercle, etc. 

Dryness of soil depends on several factors, of which the 
chief are : (i) porosity of the underlying rock ; (2) depth of 
the first impermeable stratum of rock ; (3) slope of ground, 
and position on slope. With regard to (i), the porosity of 
rock depends on its geological nature. The greater part of 
the surface of England consists of " aqueous " rock, i.e. rock 
which has originally been laid down as sediment in water, 

218 



THE SCHOOL AND ITS SURROUNDINGS 219 



and so occurs in layers or " strata," and there are three main 
types, viz. (a) limestone and chalk (chiefly calcium carbonate, 
CaCOg) ; (b) sand and sandstone (chiefly silica, SiO 2 ) ; (c) 
clay, shale, slate (chiefly silicates). Of these (a) is very porous 
and so is barren as regards vegetation, but very healthy for 



(a) 



II 



11 



2 Strata of Chalk 
or Limestone 



(b) 



2 Strata of 
Sandstone 



-n.- -^r-r-rzr- 2 Strata of Clay, 

" Shale or Slate 

F\g. 70 

human habitation. Its porosity is largely due to the existence 
of a regular series of cracks, called joints, running across the 
strata, as indicated in the usual diagrammatic method of 
representing these rocks, (b) Is moderately porous if hard, 
the joints not being so well marked as in (a). If loose, it is 
very porous, (c) Is waterproof, and hence rain lies on its 



t = -j~^j ^_~z-~^=-^ ^=- -^ ~ . = - 




Lime- 



Saturation 
" ~ Level 



Foundations 
dry 



71 



220 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

surface, giving luxuriant vegetation, but very undesirable 
building sites. 

With regard to (2), the rock composing the crust varies in 
character, and one is quite likely, for instance, to find limestone 
on top of clay. If so, rain will "run through the limestone till 
it reaches the clay, but will then be checked and will therefore 
water-log the limestone over it to a certain height (saturation 
level) which will vary with the rainfall and season. Clearly a 
school built on the limestone should have its foundations 
above the saturation level, and the further the clay is from the 
surface the better. 

With regard to (3), if the ground slope, water will run off it 
and hence it will be drier than if flat. 

A damp site sometimes is unavoidable, and then the only 
thing to do is to drain it by digging trenches deeper than the 
foundations, to collect water. In any case, the foundation 
should be concreted, and there should be an air-space under 
the ground-floor, ventilating through air-bricks into the 
outer air ; also there should be a damp-proof course in the 
walls, below the floor-level, to stop the rise of water through 
the bricks. Some stone and brick has very considerable 
capacity for absorbing water. 

As to size of site, the Board demands forty-two square 
feet per child if there is only one story, or thirty square feet 
if more than one story. 

Playgrounds have not probably been yet used to their 
fullest capacity, and some of the suggestions that have been 
made and some of the experiments tried are worthy of note. 
Of course, a playground should be drained, so that there are 
no standing pools of water after rain, or sloughs of mud which 
is brought into school on the children's boots. A part of it 
should be either asphalted or gravelled, and most people 
prefer asphalt as being cleaner, less dusty and less likely to 
cause dirty wounds if children fall, though it is slippery in 
frosty weather. It should be on the sunny side of the building, 
and high walls are bad because they cut out sun. On the other 
hand, some shelter is necessary for wet weather and for very 
hot weather, and at present this is often inadequate, being 
provided by a covered shed against one wall. If possible 



THE SCHOOL AND ITS SURROUNDINGS 221 

there should be a few shady trees planted in the playground, 
well away from the school. These will be very useful if classes 
are taken in the open, as they should be. Then there should 
be a part devoted to flowers. So many playgrounds are a 
dreary barren waste, almost intolerable on a hot day. 

Some of the innovations suggested in the use of the play- 
ground are : (i) That school playgrounds should be open 
out of school hours as well as in, so that children may use the 
streets less. It is said that the provision of playgrounds in 
New York has reduced juvenile crime by sixty per cent. (2) 
The Board of Education recommends simple appliances in 
playgrounds, and these might include swings, see-saws, sand- 
box and buckets, building blocks, etc. The sand-pile is 
common in America and Germany and is coming into use in 
England. Its appeal is undoubted ; see how children con- 
gregate in the sand stored in street -receptacles (under lamp- 
posts in some places), etc. The sand needs pretty frequent 
washing. (3) The Board of Education is strongly in favour 
of using the ground for open-air classes, and in addition some 
enthusiasts, like Miss M. Macmillan and Miss Sewell, the 
Organiser and Secretary of the City Children's Fund, say it 
should be used at night, for sleeping. The latter has experi- 
mented with a piece of walled-in ground in Canning Town, 
which was secured for a year, and which was used day and 
night, all the year round, for gardening, sand-play, games and 
sleeping. The children had trestles and hammocks slung on 
them, and the boys made the trestles and the girls the ham- 
mocks, blankets and sleeping-bags. The children put up 
the beds and made them, and various voluntary helpers 
managed things ; these included a clergyman, a doctor, a 
club-organiser, a working man and woman, several teachers, 
a nurse and a trained drill-mistress. Shower baths were fixed 
up. The money needed was obtained voluntarily and 
easily. 

Results. In addition to better health, the helpers had 
educational chances which Miss Sewell considered very 
valuable ; e.g. the elder children brought in most fearful trash, 
such as comic papers, to read in bed, etc., and Miss Sewell 
substituted Stead's id. books, though she says that much 



222 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

more might have been done. She makes interesting comments 
on the difference in attitude of old and younger children. The 
younger ones were fresh, keen, appreciative ; the older girls 
were far more petty, they seemed only to care for trifles such 
as who should sleep next who, and their conversation was 
always concerned with trivialities. However, Miss Sewell 
says that even this could be directed ; e.g. on one occasion 
she stopped it by suggesting that a nightgown should go on 
after the day clothes had come off, not on top of all the day 
clothes. The latter was the prevalent notion of the best way 
to use this garment. The result was a fierce argument which 
was a distinct improvement on the previous gossiping. 

Types of Building. Single-story buildings are preferable 
to double or treble stories, because there is less strain on 
delicate children in going up and down stairs and less danger 
of fire. Practically the discussion of type resolves itself into 
a choice between the Central Hall and the Pavilion or Stafford- 
shire type. Now, till recently the central-hall school was 
fashionable, and our towns are full of them, solidly and 
expensively built. It was said that they made supervision 
by the head teacher so easy, and beyond that I have never 
beefi able to discover precisely what their advantages are. 
Their disadvantages are numerous : (i) They cannot be 
efficiently ventilated by natural means. Hence many of 
them are ventilated by artificial systems, which are all bad, 
as we have seen. (2) They are noisy, noise permeating 
from hall to class-room and vice versa. The best and newest 
type is the Pavilion School, because one can get perfect 
natural ventilation in it and no noise-transference, and it is 
cheaper. (See Chapter V.) 

Warming. The aim of all methods of warming living or 
class-rooms should be to get a method Whereby the occupants 
and furniture and walls may be warmed, without heating 
the air, since too high temperature is one of the main factors 
producing the ill-effects of living in unventilated rooms. This 
is only possible in a system which depends on radiation of 
heat and not on convection, and most of our existing systems 
depend on the latter process. (For explanation of radiation 
and convection see any textbook on Heat.) 



THE SCHOOL AND ITS SURROUNDINGS 223 

Convection heats the air, and then the air heats the object, 
and further the floor always tends to be cold and the top 
of the room hot, and so cold feet and hot heads result. Cold 
feet bring on congestion of the mucous membrane of the nose, 
and so produce a tendency to catch colds, to headache, etc. 
The hot -water system of heating works on this convection 
principle and therefore the so-called " Radiators " should be 
named " Con vectors." 

Methods of obtaining Radiant Heat, (i) The coal fire heats 
largely by radiation, but it has disadvantages, viz. dust, 
extravagance (nine-tenths of the heat goes up the chimney), 
also it sends a great deal of pure air up the chimney ; it is 
unsuitable for school because of the need of stoking, variability, 
etc. Hence we must try to replace it with something better. 
The modern gas fire is better, giving fifty per cent radiant 
heat, and no dust. It must have a proper flue and must not 
be turned on unnecessarily full, so that the room is made too 
hot. With these precautions there is no need for dishes of 
water, for gas dries the air no more than coal. The older 
types were bad because they had too much iron-work which 
got hot and " convected " ; also the gas often -did not heat 
the fuel rightly and therefore carbon monoxide was formed 
instead of carbon dioxide. (3) Electricity may come more into 
use for heating. 

Hot-Water Heating. This is the type commonly found in 
school, and there are two systems, known respectively as the 
high-pressure and low-pressure systems. In the high-pressure 
system, pipes of from one inch to one and a half inches diameter 
hold water heated to about 150 C. under pressure. Parts of 
these pipes are heated in a fire in the basement. The disad- 
vantage is that parts cannot be disconnected, and so heat 
cannot be turned off from one room, say. The advantage is 
that the heat is greater and obtained faster than in the other 
system. In the low-pressure system larger pipes (two to four 
inches diameter) contain water never above the boiling point. 
This water is heated in a boiler in the basement. The advan- 
tage is that any radiator can be separated from the main 
system by a screw valve. The disadvantage is that in a big 
building some rooms may be very cold. 



224 



A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 



Floor-heating. Probably this would be the best method of 
applying hot-water heating just as the old Romans did. 
It is in use at North Wingfield School, Derbyshire. Steam 
pipes run under the floor. 




CONCRETE 5LAB5 



PIPE TRENCH 



CONCRETE. 

5ELCT10N 



Fig-. 72. Section of floor showing arrangements for warming- in floor 
of experimental classrooms in North Wingfield Council School 

(From Crowley's Hygiene of School Life. C. W. Hutt. Methuen) 

Closed Stoves are not nearly so common here as in Canada, 
America and on the Continent. Unless of very good make 
and very carefully flued there is always a risk that the products 
of combustion may leak into the room, and these are likely 
to contain carbon monoxide, which is very poisonous, pro- 
ducing headache and nausea if present in very small amounts, 
and death if in rather greater quantity. The reason why 
there is more risk of this gas being present than with an open 
fire is that the air-supply to a stove is less than to a fire, and 
often there is not enough oxygen to oxidise the carbon in the 
fuel completely to carbon monoxide and so it only half- 
oxidiscs. There are " ventilating stoves " on the market, e.g. 
(l) George's Calorigen and (2) Bond's Euthcrmic, which act 
like the Galton fire-place, because they contain an air space, 
opening into the room and also into the outer air, and so they 
pass warmed fresh air into the room, but in no case are 
stoves satisfactory. 

Lighting. A child needs better light than an adult because 
of the plasticity of the eye and the fact that type bothers 
it and has to be attended to. The window area should not be 
less than one-sixth or more than one-quarter of the floor 



THE SCHOOL AND ITS SURROUNDINGS 225 

area. Unduly increasing window area increases the difficulty 
of ventilating and warming, because windows chill a room 
in winter and warm it in summer. (In winter the window 
cools the hot air, which therefore falls and may chill people 
just under the window.) Windows should begin 3'8" from 
the floor and reach to within 6" of the ceiling. If the siU be 
higher than 3'8" there is insufficient light on the desks under 
the window ; and the nearer the top of the window to the 
ceiling, the more efficient outlet for hot air does it form, and 



NORTH 




CR055 SflCTlOM. 

Fig. 73. Experimental classrooms at North Wingfield Council School, 
Derbyshire County Council. G. H. Widdows, F.R.I.B.A., Architect 

(From Crowley's Hygiene of School Life. C. W. Hutt. Methucn) 

the more light does it give. If surrounding buildings cut out 
much of the light it may be necessary to use prism glass, which 
bends rays entering nearly vertically so that they reach 
further into the room. The windows giving the main light 
should be on the left of the children so that they do not fling 
shadows of the right hand on the work. The next best position 
for windows is on the right. If behind the children, the 
shadow of the whole body is flung on the work and the glare 
is very bad for the teacher. If in front of the children, the 



226 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

glare is very bad for them. The width of room should not be 
greater than twenty-two feet, because one cannot get adequate 
light further from the windows than this distance. Till 
recently skylights have only been allowed in halls, corridors, 
gymnasiums and laboratories, but at North Wingfield School, 
Derbyshire, two rooms are lighted by a skylight, five feet deep, 
running along the whole of the north side, and this is said to 
give a better and more even light than any other arrangement. 
The ventilation in this school is effected by glass doors on 
opposite sides of the room, so constructed that the top half 
of each can be opened, or the whole if need be. 

Artificial lighting even when good tires the eyes more than 
good daylight, and therefore as far as possible close work 
should be stopped when daylight fails anyhow for infants 
and the first three standards and all needlework should 
stop, (i) Electric light is best because there are no products 
of combustion to contaminate the air, no using up of air and 
very little heating. The objection is the cost, which is still 
higher than gas, as a rule. It should be shaded to absorb 
ultra-violet rays which are bad for the eyes, specially of 
children. (2) Gas. Here the incandescent mantle is almost 
always used rather than the old-fashioned, flat, naked flame. 
The mantle only uses half as much gas and correspondingly 
only half as much air. The old naked flame vitiated air to 
the same extent as five women or seven children ; the incan- 
descent only to the extent of three women or five children. 
Opinions differ as to whether the inverted or the upright 
mantle is the better. The former flings no shadow under it 
from the gas-bracket, but one can get very good results from 
an erect burner with a proper shade (i.e. one whose sides are 
at 90, and come down to the level of the " gallery"). On 
the other hand, the inverted burner does not burn the gas so 
competely as the upright, and one is therefore more likely to 
get undesirable gaseous products of combustion passed into 
the room. (3) Oil is only used in the country. 

Arrangement of lights, The main desk-lighting should 
come from the left and somewhat in front of the child. There- 
fore the first lamp should be hung over the centre of the first 
dual desk on the left, and succeeding lamps at six-feet or 



THE SCHOOL AND ITS SURROUNDINGS 227 

nine-feet intervals, the shorter distance being for the younger 
children. The height should be six and a half feet from the 
floor. 

Indirect lighting is the best method of artificial lighting, 
because it does away with glare. In this method, the lamps 
are quite hidden by reflectors placed under them, or by 
cornices, so that the light is first flung on the ceiling and is 
thence reflected downwards into the room, so giving a soft 
diffused light. One result of this is that shadows are faint, 
and therefore detail is more difficult to see, and so a stronger 
light is needed than is the case with direct lighting. Hence 
indirect lighting costs more than does direct. 

Glare. This is so harmful to the eye that it is worth while 
to mention ft, especially as usually very little attention is 
paid to it. No bright source of artificial light should be visible 
in school, and hence electric lights and incandescent gas 
mantles need opalescent shades or holophane globes, i.e. globes 
of ridged glass which bend the rays of light downwards without 
causing glare. Again, direct sunshine should never fall on a 
surface at which a child has to look. Neither should a child 
sit facing a window. Finally, bright, shiny, reflecting surfaces 
should be avoided ; hence the paint, etc., on walls and black- 
boards should be dull rather than polished, as should be the 
paper in the books used. 

Test for lighting of room. See if a child with normal eyes 
can read small pica type at twelve inches from the eyes in 
every part of the room, or use the ordinary vision-testing 
card. 



CHAPTER XXIV 



THE SCHOOL BUILDING (continued) 

Furniture and equipment : desks, infants' rooms, cloakrooms and 
lavatories, sanitary conveniences (common types), earth closets 
and their management, supervision of offices, need of training 
children in proper use of sanitary appliances, drainage School 
cleaning Disinfecting. 

Furniture and Equipment. The most important item is 
the desk, which should fit the child reasonably, and it IF 
stated by some authorities on School Hygiene that adjustable 




Fig. 74. The Farringdon Adjustable Desk 

(From the Educational Supply Co.) 
228 



THE SCHOOL BUILDING 229 

single desks are therefore necessary. Now it is doubtful if 
quite such precise fitting as is here implied is necessary, if we 
do not keep children sitting for too long periods, i.e. if we 
vary the time-table hygienically. However, if one is to have 
single desks, more money and more floor-space will be needed. 
A good type is the " Adjustable Farringdon," made from Miss 
A. RavenhiU's directions by the Educational Supply Asso- 
ciation. It has a seat which can be raised or lowered in 
three -quarter-inch steps, and the desk can be adjusted in 
one-inch steps. The locker will slide backwards and forwards 
into plus, minus or zero positions. 

In the plus position the edges of desk and seat are separated 
thus: 




Plus 
Fig. 75 

In the zero position they are in the same vertical line 
thus: 




Zero 

Fig. 76 

In the minus position they overlap thus : 




Minus 
Fig- 77 



The minus is best for writing ; the plus for standing in the 
desk. The slope of the lid can be varied so as to be right for 



230 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

reading, writing, etc. Its lateral width is twenty-three 
inches, which is three inches less than it should be. The back 
rests are adjustable. There is a foot -rest, which is a pity, as 
it is better to have none. The seat is sloped slightly backward 
and is saddled to fit the thighs and its front edge is bevelled, 
so as not to press on the blood-vessels of the thigh. Adjust- 
ment should be done twice yearly, the seat being set at such 
a point that the thighs are at right angles to the body when 
the feet are flat on the floor. The desk should be at such a 
height that when the forearm is bent at right angles to the 
arm, the latter being close to the side, the forearm can just 
sweep the top of the desk. Advantages. In addition to the 
possibility of exact fitting of the desk to the child, single 
desks make overcrowding impossible, minimise the chance of 
exchange of germs, and increase the ease of supervision. 

Dual desks are not so good as single, but better than 
"long desks." They usually allow a width of twenty inches 
per child, which is not enough for elder children. They 
should run up to twenty-four inches or twenty-six inches per 
child. 

Of long desks, the " Sheffield " is the best type, because it 
has separate pedestal seats, with backs ; thus wholesale over- 
crowding is prevented, but these desks usually allow eighteen 
inches in lateral width per child, and this is inadequate. 

Slope of Lid. Some people say that the flat top is best, and 
flat desks are being used in some schools. Obviously they are 
best for all manual and experimental work. 

Infants' Furniture. The infants' room should contain : 

1. An open fire, in addition to the ordinary heating 
apparatus. 

2. Straw mats, or thick pieces of cork carpet for the floor. 

3. Tables and chairs. 

4. Hammocks for sleeping. 

5. Cupboards, not more than three feet high. 

6. Piano. 

7. Sand trough, spades, buckets. 

8. Toys, i.e. swing, rocking horse, doll's house. 

9. A few suitable pictures. 



THE SCHOOL BUILDING 231 

Cloakrooms and Lavatories. These need particularly 
good lighting, heating and ventilation and are often very 
unsatisfactory in these respects. 

The Board of Education requires three square feet per 
child. There should be hot -water pipes in or between the 
clothes rails so as to dry damp clothes quickly. Metal fittings 
are best, and there should be a wire meshing separating the 
clothes on one side of the stand from those on the other. 
Pegs should be eighteen inches apart, numbered, and in a 
single row, and each child should keep to its own peg. Um- 
brella racks should be provided draining outside if possible 

A concrete floor and glazed brick walls are best. 

Basins. There should be enough of these, with clean 
towels daily, and soap in plenty. The best towel is a paper 
one one per child. The best basin is a " continuous -flow," 
or a long trough into which the taps run, whilst the child 
washes under the running water which then escapes quickly. 
Otherwise, careful supervision is needed to see that the 
children do not use the same water and that basins are not 
used as flower -vases, etc. 

Offices. The w.c. is far preferable hygienically to the earth 
closet. The number depends on the number of children and 




Fig. 78. Section through wash-down closet 

the regulations are laid down by the Board of Education- 
Seats are usually too high ; they should be ten inches high 
for infants and twelve inches in other departments, because 
the weak spots in the wall of the abdomen are protected if 



232 



A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 



the thighs come up against them. Single closets of the wash- 
down type, with as little woodwork as possible, are best, 
because simplest. The old type of closet with a wooden 
box-frame and a pull-up handle was bad because full of 
corners and holes impossible to keep clean. 

Trough closets are found in some schools. They consist of a 
series of closets with a common flush acting automatically 
and a common trough. The flush often does not act frequently 
enough, sometimes only once or twice a week ; hence very 
objectionable odours arise. It should act every two hours at 
least during school hours, and even then it is very difficult to 






Automatic 
FlushTank i 



Fig-. 79. Section through trough closet 

keep the sides of the trough clean, neither does it give the 
child such good training in cleanly habits as when it has to 
flush the closet itself, as it has to with the single wash-down 
closet, and at home and we must remember that we want 
school to be a constant object-lesson in how to behave at 
home. 

Earth Closets. These are only permissible in the country 
or elsewhere where the water-carriage system is not available. 
In principle they depend on the fact that excreta with which 
dry earth containing certain bacteria is mixed becomes 
harmless and inoffensive in a short time, owing to the chemical 
changes produced by the bacteria which convert the nitro- 
genous compounds into simpler ones, viz. nitrates and nitrites. 
The best soils to use are dry, loose loam or garden soil, or clay. 
Sand, gravel and chalk are bad because there are practically 
no bacteria in them. One and a half pounds should be placed 
in the pail after each use of the closet, and to ensure this 
automatic earth closets are available in which the earth is 



THE SCHOOL BUILDING 233 

stored in a receptacle above and behind the seat, and on 
pulling a handle the right amount is shot into the pan. One 
has to take care (i) that children do not play with the hopper, 
and (2) that the pail is emptied daily, at a sufficient distance 
from the school. The contents can be used as manure or 
can be again used in the closet after sufficient exposure to 
air. 

Supervision of Offices. This at present is very often (not 
always) inadequate. It is needed for various reasons, e.g. : 

1. Caretakers often neglect the cleaning of the offices if not 
very carefully kept up to the mark. 

2. Several children will be found in one closet hence 
comes lack of decency. 

3. Children use closets so carelessly and dirtily if not 
trained, e.g. not flushing, etc. It is remarkable how badly 
many of the so-called working-classes treat the sanitary 
conveniences provided in their own homes, when these are 
of the modern type in which baths and w.c.'s exist. 

4. Infants specially need training in good habits. 
How is this supervision to be done ? 

At present only the teacher can do it. 

1. The Head should go round the offices daily, to see if 
the caretaker is doing his or her work, and if things in general 
are right. 

2. There should be an assistant taking charge of the 
offices at " break " and just before and after each session. 

3. It has been suggested by a Committee appointed by the 
Training College Association to report on the sanitary con- 
ditions of girls' and infants' schools in London, that a woman 
caretaker be appointed as general supervisor of cloakrooms 
and lavatories in each school of any size, with a room of her 
own in the playground, near the offices. They point out that 
this need not be expensive ; a corrugated iron room with 
fire-place, windows, and washing apparatus is all that is 
wanted. This is already done in France. It would remove 
the duty of supervision from the teacher, on whom it falls 
hardly. 

Duties of Attendant, (i) She should start work at 8.30 
a.m. and remain till school closes. (2) She would be responsible 



234 



A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 



for the care and cleanliness of the offices, for flushing and 
ventilation of lavatories, for distribution of clean towels 
daily, and the washing of them, for the behaviour of children 
in the offices, for the training of younger children in clean and 
decent habits and for the care of any child taken ill in school. 
The Committee bring the following accusations against 
the schools : 

(a) Want of more w.c.'s and basins. 

(b) Want of more light, air, towels and soap. (Soap is 
often kept in the cupboard by the teacher, and one filthy 
towel is all that is provided.) 

(c) The flushing of w.c.'s is often defective. 

(d) It is very difficult to spare the teacher to look after a 
child who is taken ill suddenly in school, with the result that 
often it is taken to the lavatory or office by a child no older 
than itself. 

Sewer Gas. Certain of the components of sewer-gas have 
the power of relaxing the throat and digestive tract, so 
increasing the liability to infectious diseases, such as diph- 
theria and typhoid fever, though sewer-gas alone cannot 
produce these diseases. However, it is very desirable to ex- 
clude it from a building, and this is done by (a) traps on all 
waste pipes ; (b) ventilation of drains. 

(a) All waste pipes have a syphon trap at their upper end, 
i.e. an S-shaped bend which holds water and so stops gas 







Fig. 80. Syphon trap 



THE SCHOOL BUILDING 235 

rising through it into the house. This is found under baths, 
sinks, hand-basins and w.c.'s. All waste pipes must end over 
a gulley trap out of doors, with the exception of the soil pipe, 
i.e. that from the w.c. which runs straight into the drain. 
The gulley is a box, let into the ground, with a grid for lid 
and connecting with the drain. The box holds water which 



Fig-. 8 1. Gulley trap 

covers the drain entrance. The drain is the property of the 
school, and at the lower end is a third trap, called a dis- 
connecting trap or " inspection trap " which is sunk in the 
ground and covered with an iron lid and is big enough for a 
man to get into. This connects drain and sewer, the latter 
being the property of the Sanitary Authority. 

(b) Drain ventilation. The soil pipe is often used also as a 
ventilator, being run up above the roof and left open, though 
covered with a wire cage to stop birds building in it, etc. Its 
top should be well above any windows, or sewer-gas may 
enter the rooms. 

School Cleaning. 

Dust must be removed daily. Ordinary dry sweeping only 
partly removes it, the finer part simply being stirred up into 
the air, and this is the part containing germs. Therefore 
removal must be by wet methods. This is partially effected 
by sprinkling damp tea leaves or sawdust (the latter must 
be soaked overnight or the water is not absorbed), but the 
spray is best. Lumley's Spray is a good type, and the right 
method is to shut up the room for one hour after the children 
leave, so as to let the dust settle. Then spray, sweep and 
burn the dust if possible. If not, put it in a dustbin emptied 
daily. Then run over desks and seats with a damp duster. 



236 



A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 



This is done daily in some schools. In addition, scrubbing of 
seats, desks, tops of cupboards and floors should be done 
fortnightly, with any plain soap. Carbolic soap is of very 
little use. The London County Council arranges for this 

Air-pump can be 
attached, here 




Fig 1 . 82. Spray apparatus (diagrammatic) 

every three weeks. Cloakrooms, offices and infants' rooms 
need it oftener, viz. weekly. Some Sanitary Authorities now 
demand strict cleaning registers in schools, signed by a 
responsible person. School cleansing and disinfection has 
been much neglected by some Sanitary Authorities. 

Disinfecting is not necessary for ordinary school cleaning. 
Most Authorities consider that the chief source of infection 
is the body of the child. However, after an outbreak of a 
disease some disinfectant must be used, but the Sanitary 
Authority should do the work, for only they have the neces- 
sary apparatus. As to disinfectants, formalin, izal and 
cyllin are excellent and much more powerful than carbolic. 
Also they have not its unpleasant smell, and are non-poisonous. 
If carbolic be used, put two tablespoonfuls to a pint of water. 
To disinfect books, hang in a room or cupboard on a line, in 
formalin vapour. Special lamps can be bought, for volatil- 
ising formalin tabloids. 



CHAPTER XXV 

MEDICAL INSPECTION AND TREATMENT* 

History of growth and development of medical inspection Need for 

it Duties of school doctors and nurses Co-operation of teachers 

Methods of treatment School clinics Future developments and 
possible extension After-care of the school-child. 

THE Education Act of 1907 introduced Medical Inspection, 
and may be said to have marked the abandonment of the 
laissez-faire policy in dealing with disease. The results of 
this policy in the past are seen in our hospitals, asylums, 
prisons, poor-law infirmaries, convalescent homes and the 
consequent heavy expenditure in rates and charities this 
only patching the evil. 

The new policy is to attack the cause of illness, and its 
motto is, " Prevention is better than cure." It also will 
cost much, but the money should produce a decrease in the 
evil attacked. 

History. Interest in School Hygiene only began at the 
close of the nineteenth century, though there had already 
been a few foreign enthusiasts, e.g. Ling, the founder of 
Physical Education in Sweden. Lorinser, writing about 1836, 
was the first man to study School Hygiene thoroughly in 
Germany. In France, Sequin, 1842, published a book on the 
treatment of idiots, the first practical work on right methods 
of education for defectives. In the same year a governmental 
decree was issued in Paris dealing with the inspection of 
schools and school children, though the scheme was very 
immature and largely voluntary. In 1879, however, a definite 
system of school-inspection began in Paris. Cohn (Breslau) 

1 See Medical Inspection of Schools, by A. H. Hogarth, 1909, and 
Reports of the Chief Medical Officer of the Board of Education, and 
Crowley's Hygiene of School-life, by Hutt. 

237 



238 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

observed defective vision in schools. He reported on the 
sight of 10,000 school children, with the result that the 
question of Medical Inspection was raised. In Sweden, there 
seem to have been medical officers in connection with some 
of the schools as far back as between 1830 and 1840. Brussels 
appointed school doctors in 1874, and the movement soon 
spread to other parts of Belgium: In 1875 Bow ditch measured 
the height and weight of 25,000 American school children. 
England was, as usual, behind the times, for most European 
Governments took up the matter before ours. The first 
school doctor in Germany was appointed in 1883 at Frankfurt - 
am-Main, and it was in this country that a comparatively 
complete type of medical inspection was first inaugurated. 

Hungary appointed school doctors in 1887. 
Moscow 1888. 

Norway 1891. 

Switzerland 1894. 

U.S.A. 1894, in Boston. 

And the movement has gradually spread. 

Japan quickly took up the idea and now has a very complete 
system. 

However, a good deal of individual and private work was 
done in England, e.g. Warner examined the mental state of a 
number of school children and so led, in 1888, to the appoint- 
ment of a Committee of the British Medical Association 
for the study of child-life. Also the more progressive School 
Boards appointed medical advisers, e.g. London did so in 
1891, and in 1893 Bradford appointed Dr. James Kerr, the 
pioneer of Medical Inspection in England. The first Govern- 
ment step was the appointment of Medical Officers for the 
Elementary Education (Blind and Deaf) Act, 1893, and the 
Elementary Education (Defective and Epileptic) Act, 1899 ; 
but most of the appointments were underpaid and held 
along with other offices. Still, it did bring doctors into touch 
with educational aims and methods. Further steps partly 
resulted from the South African War, which showed up the 
physical deterioration of the class from which recruits came ; 
and in 1903, an Interdepartmental Committee suggested 



MEDICAL INSPECTION AND TREATMENT 289 

Medical Inspection for Schools. In 1907, the Education 
(Administrative Provisions) Act made it compulsory. 

Arguments for Medical Inspection, i. A large number 
(six million) of children attend the State schools suffering 
from preventable and remediable disease, e.g. eighty-five 
to ninety-five per cent of children have defective teeth, 
twenty-five per cent of girls have verminous hair, thirty 
per cent of children have defective vision, ten per cent of 
children have anaemia, general debility, deafness, etc. With 
regard to the state of children on entrance, the following 
facts are of interest. (From Report of Chief Medical Officer 
of Board of Education, 1914). Medical Inspection has re- 
vealed a serious amount of defects in children entering 
school between three and six. In 1914, uncleanliness of 
body sometimes reached thirty-seven per cent, uncleanli- 
ness of head was still commoner, being fifteen to twenty per 
cent in many areas, and in some up to forty-four per cent. 
Rickets occurred in one to three per cent on the average, but 
up to eight per cent in some towns. Eye disease such as 
conjunctivitis, blepharitis, etc., gave much the same numbers 
as rickets, running up to twelve per cent in some towns. 
Discharging ears occurred in one to three per cent in town. 
Diseases of nose and throat vary widely and are not always 
worst in town (ten to thirty per cent). Enlarged tonsils or 
adenoids occur often in over twenty or thirty per cent in 
town. Malnutrition is found in five to thirty per cent, and 
is worst in town. Defective, teeth are often found in over 
seventy or eighty per cent. Again, the Report of the 
Chief Medical Officer of the Board of Education for 1916 
sums up the conditions of health of our elementary school 
children thus : "Of the children in attendance at school 
(six million), we know by medical inspection that many, 
though not specifically 'feeble-minded,' are so dull and 
backward mentally as to be unable to derive full benefit 
from schooling, that upwards of ten per cent of the whole 
are at a like disability on account of uncleanliness, and 
that ten per cent also are malnourished. Then we come 
to disease. Perhaps the largest contributor is dental disease, 
which handicaps children almost as seriously as it does 



240 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

adolescents and adults. Probably not less than half the 
children are in need of dental treatment, and a substantial 
number (not less than half a million) are urgently so. Again, 
upwards of half a million children are so defective in eyesight 
as to be unable to take reasonable advantage of their lessons. 
Many of them need spectacles, some ophthalmic treatment, 
others special ' myope classes/ and all of them careful super- 
vision and attention. Next we must add diseases of the ear, 
throat and lymphatic glands, another quarter of a million in 
a relatively serious condition. Then there come skin diseases, 
disorders of the heart, infectious disease and tuberculosis." 

This means that not less than a million children of school 
age were, in 1915, so physically or mentally defective as to be 
unable to derive reasonable benefit from the education which 
the State provides. These returns give cause for anxiety, 
especially as much is due to earlier conditions, such as measles, 
whooping cough, epidemic diarrhoea, respiratory disease, etc., 
which have already killed so many babies. 

2. Parents are often ignorant and obstinate, and through 
Medical Inspection they may be educated ; the children of 
the poor are handicapped through life not so much by squalor 
as by ignorance and obstinacy of parents. 

3. Healthy citizens are the State's chief asset, and there- 
fore the State needs definite knowledge about the health of 
its children. The first step to this is a physical census of 
children ; the second step is preventive measures. 

4. From the educational point of view, increased attendance 
follows and therefore greater efficiency, e.g. transference of 
defectives to special schools brings education within their 
reach. About ten per cent of children in crowded districts 
suffer from remediable diseases which seriously hinder their 
education. 

5. Medical inspection of schools is a necessary supplement 
to the work of the Public Health Department in two ways : 
(a) Sanitation. Thousands of schools are totally unfit for 
their purpose, having unsuitable buildings, overcrowded 
class-rooms, bad ventilation, heating and lighting, unsatis- 
factory cloakrooms and offices, and little attempt at any 
good system of cleansing, and though the doctor is often 



MEDICAL INSPECTION AND TREATMENT 241 

unable to get structural reforms, he can instruct the teacher 
how to make the best of the existing premises. It is, however, 
very desirable for the doctor to co-operate with the architect 
and sanitary engineer, (b) Prevention of infectious disease. 
At one time, daily inspection was suggested, and actually 
done in the United States of America, but it is impracticable 
because of expense and interference with school routine. 
Again the school is not such a centre for infection as is usually 
thought ; it should rather be a convenient place for con- 
trolling the spread of infection. Certain chronic communic- 
able diseases have not yet been touched by the Public Health 
Authorities : ringworm, vermin, skin-disease, ophthalmia, etc. 
These are mostly diseases of children, and their suppression 
is an important function of medical inspection. Hence the 
work of medical inspection should be carried out in close 
connection with the Sanitary Authority and under direct 
supervision of the Medical Officer of Health. In many cases 
the school doctor is also Medical Officer of Health. 

6. The claim of the individual child. There is no doubt of 
the individual benefits to be derived from medical inspection 
followed by the necessary treatment. Even in secondary 
schools many children have astigmatism or short sight for 
years before the defect is recognised. They get red eyes, 
headache, etc., but nobody interferes, and they are called 
stupid or careless. Defective teeth are often not noted till 
toothache occurs. Anaemia is often unrecognised in girls, 
and overstrain follows examination work, violent exercise, 
etc. Headaches usually mean that there is a remediable 
cause needing discovery. Slight spinal curvature is rarely 
detected, but is important and only remediable in the early 
stages. The remedy for this is (i) medical inspection to 
diagnose and prescribe treatment. (2) Treatment. We, as 
teachers, should specially remember that no teacher can do 
justice to the individual child without knowledge of its mental, 
moral and physical development, which cannot be obtained 
without the doctor's help. 

Duties and Qualifications of the School Doctor. The 
code of 1908 assigns the following work to the school doctor : 
(i) Reporting on open-air schools or other such arrangements. 
16 



242 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

(2) Advising or approving closure for epidemics. (3) Author- 
ising exclusion of children because of uncleanliness, infection 
or inability to profit by school work. (4) It also assumes that 
he will supervise and control medical inspection. Hence he 
should be responsible for the following duties : (a) To examine 
cursorily on admission to the infant school, as to cleanliness 
and obvious physical defects. To examine in detail about 
the time of transference to the upper school, and decide if 
special education is needed. To examine at certain later 
ages, (b) Re-inspection of those needing treatment, (c) To 
inspect all classes several times a year for general health 
and conditions of work, e.g. lighting, physical exercise. This 
also gives the teacher an opportunity of reporting " special " 
cases, (d) To inspect once or twice a year all eye cases. 
(The teacher should test vision once a year.) (e) To super- 
vise the work of nurses, in regard to vermin, ringworm, 
etc. (/) To advise the Health Committee of each school. 
(g) To give lectures to teachers and others on Hygiene, (h) 
To deal with the question of Medical Certificates of absence 
given by other doctors, (t) To investigate (if necessary in 
conjunction with the Medical Officer of Health) epidemics 
and take measures to stop their spread. 

With regard to the above the Board of Education stipulates 
that : (i) Inspection be in school hours on school premises. 

(2) The convenience of the teacher must be considered. 

(3) A record of inspection must be kept at the school and a 
copy transmitted with the child, if he changes school. (4) The 
minimum number of inspections is three : (a) At, or as soon 
as possible after entrance (three to six), (b) Between eight 
and nine, (c) Between twelve and thirteen and those over 
thirteen not examined after twelve. Inspection on leaving is 
advised. 

Modification due to the War. In 1915 the Board of 
Education informed Authorities that it did not wish to put 
obstacles in the way of school doctors volunteering, and if 
curtailment of the school work was therefore necessary, the 
first charges on the staff should be (a) medical inspection of 
ailing children of all ages, (b) Maintenance of any arrange- 
ments for treatment undertaken by the Authority. Hence in 



MEDICAL INSPECTION AND TREATMENT 243 

some areas, routine medical inspection was temporarily 
suspended. 

Duties of School Nurses. Nurses are now at work in 291 
areas. The total number is 1,484, of whom 996 are whole 
time. Their work is various. Thus, at present (i) they visit 
schools regularly in many places, to help teachers select ailing 
children, who are then examined by the doctor at school or 
clinic. (2) In some areas they visit regularly for cleanliness 
surveys. (3) Children needing treatment are followed up by 
the nurse visiting the home, where she emphasises the import- 
ance of the doctor's advice and shows parents how to treat 
minor ailments and uncleanliness. She may be very useful 
in connection with the examination of children before they 
return to school after an infectious disease, e.g. she may swab 
throats at home, where this is safer than having the children 
come to the clinic. Her duties may be combined with those 
of a health visitor and tuberculosis nurse. This is actually 
done in Warwickshire, Durham County, Willesden and Croy- 
don. (4) Where a clinic exists, she may be employed for part 
or all of her time in it. (5) Each special school needs a nurse. 
(6) Sometimes she takes children to hospital when parents 
say they cannot spare time. (7) Sometimes she helps at 
school inspections by preparing children for the doctor, 
entering details in registers, etc. 

Co-operation of Teachers in School Medical Work. It 
is difficult to overestimate the value of the help which the 
teachers can often give the school medical work. They can 
do a tremendous amount in seeing that treatment is secured. 
They know parents and children in a way that no one else 
does and by steady pressure can often get the parent to act 
on the doctor's advice, specially in the matter of cleanliness. 
Dr. Scatterly (Kcighley) says that the weekly march-past 
before the teacher, as a means of controlling uncleanliness, 
has become a recognised institution in some schools, with 
most satisfactory results. Teachers can also be of the greatest 
help in selecting children as " specials " for examination, 
this of course involving a knowledge of common defects, 
their symptoms and importance, and also in preventing 
epidemics of infectious disease by quick observation and 



MEDICAL INSPECTION AND TREATMENT 245 

exclusion. In many places they have relieved the medical 
staff of the work of taking heights, weights, etc. 

Treatment of Defects. This is the logical completion of 
inspection, the money spent on inspection being largely 
wasted unless remedy of the evils detected follows. In 1908, 
the year after that in which medical inspection was instituted, 
55 Education Authorities provided medical treatment ; that 
number had grown to 276 in 1916. Now, when medical 
inspection began, the existing means of treatment were two- 
fold : (i) Private doctors. (2) Hospitals. Children were 
often debarred from (i) because of expense, and from (2) 
because hospitals were often overcrowded and so admission 
was difficult ; also in the country, hospitals are often difficult 
to reach ; again hospitals do not treat certain of the defects 
so often found in children, and so harmful in the long run, 
though not acute, e.g. decayed teeth, short sight, etc. Parents 
often say that they cannot spare time to take the child to the 
hospital ; also out-patient treatment is often not detailed or 
prolonged enough for the cases revealed by medical inspection. 
Hence the demand for school clinics arose, i.e. buildings or 
rooms, conveniently placed for the whole town or district, at 
which children may be inspected or specially treated for 
defects which would otherwise probably be neglected, e.g. 
teeth, eyes, throats (adenoids and tonsils), discharging ears, 
anaemia, spinal curvature, ringworm, vermin, etc. Upwards 
of 450 clinics representing 212 Educational Authorities now 
exist, some for dental work only, some for general treatment, 
some for inspection only, e.g. re-examination of the child 
before returning to school after infectious disease, or for more 
detailed examination of certain children than is possible in 
routine school inspection, e.g. those who ought to go to a 
special school. Some are for X-ray treatment of ringworm 
only, and so on. 

Co-operation with Hospitals is the next commonest form 
of arrangement for medical treatment, by means of con- 
tribution to hospital funds. Seventy-eight areas do .this ; 
thirty-nine for eye treatment, twenty-one for X-ray treat- 
ment of ringworm, sixty-one for tonsil and adenoid operations, 
five for minor ailments and two for dental ailments. Also 



246 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

many hospitals treat defects of school children apart from any 
arrangement with the Education Authority. 

Between 1908 and 1916 the number of Education 
Authorities which have provided clinics has grown from 

7 to 219, and the number which contributed to hospitals from 

8 to 87, and the number which provides spectacles from 21 to 
216. 

About fourteen per cent, i.e. thirty-nine of the Local 
Education Authorities do nothing whatever for the medical 
treatment of the children under their care, and it is estimated 
that still forty per cent of the children who need medical care 
receive none. As The Times puts it, " Ignorant parents, 
combined with ignorant local authorities are doing as much 
havoc as the guns." However, Mr. Fisher's Bill, which is 
now practically law, will do away with this, as it makes it 
compulsory for the Local Authority to provide treatment. 

Equipment of the School Clinic. 1 This will depend on the 
kind of work done and on the number of children likely to 
need treatment. The chief needs are : 

1. Waiting-rooms, more than one being necessary so that 
children who come to be examined after an infectious disease 
or after "contact" with one (e.g. diphtheria) may not be 
mixed up with other children. 

2. A consulting-room for each doctor. 

3. A treatment -room for eyes, ears, sores, etc. 

4. A room, at least twenty feet long, for vision-testing. 

5. A dentist's room. 

6. An X-ray room for ringworm, and a small dark-room. 
It is desirable also to have : 

7. A room for cultivating and examining germs. 

8. If tonsils and adenoids are operated on, an operating 
room, with a recovery room with perhaps ten beds. 

9. If deformities are treated by remedial exercise, a room 
for this. 

10. A bathroom and dressing-room for verminous children. 

11. A nurse's room. 

12. A clerk's room. 

1 From Crowley's Hygiene of School Life, by Hutt. 



MEDICAL INSPECTION AND TREATMENT 247 

It is best if the clinic be part of the Jbuilding in which the 
Public Health Department, Tuberculosis Dispensary and 
Chief Infant Welfare Centre are housed, so as to get co-opera- 
tion and continuity in dealing with the health of children. 

Work of Voluntary Agencies. Children's Care Committees, 
Invalid Children's Aid Association, the National Society for 
the Prevention of Cruelty to Children, Children's Holiday Fund 
and the Guild of Help do most excellent work in connection 
with the medical treatment of children. A number of clinics 
are provided voluntarily. 

Future Developments. The trend of opinion to-day is all 
in favour of extension of medical supervision backwards and 
forwards, so as to embrace healthy parentage, the care of 
infancy before school life, and continued physical education, 
supervision of employment and some practical guidance in 
the duties of healthy and responsible parenthood after school 
life, up to the end of the adolescent period. Already we have 
Schools for Mothers, Infant Welfare Centres, etc., on the one 
hand and Juvenile Employment Committee and Continuation 
Classes on the other. One subject which can well be dealt 
with at a school for mothers is the medical inspection of school 
children and the advantages which may be expected from it ; 
these are not, as a rule, understood by the mothers. Special 
subjects such as personal cleanliness, care of teeth, reason for 
preventive dental treatment, malnutrition, rheumatism, 
mouth-breathing and nasal obstruction, defective vision, and 
the value of spectacles are among the subjects which suggest 
themselves. Infectious diseases, and particularly the care of 
measles and whooping cough, which are usually nursed at 
home, may be discussed in some detail. These schools for 
mothers were originally established to teach mothers the 
right way to feed and look after babies, but the scope of the 
work has in many cases been stretched so as to bring the 
young child not yet of school age under medical supervision. 
Circular 852 of the Board of Education shows the lines on 
which a school for mothers should be run (see also Chapter 
XXVII). 

After-care of the School Child, i.e. during Adolescence. 
There are only three Acts of Parliament dealing in any way 



248 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

with this, viz. the Factory Act, the Employment of Children 
Act, and the Education Act (1918). 

The Factory Act prescribes certain sanitary conditions, 
precautions against accident, and medical inspection, but in 
practice it is said to be nearly worthless, because the factory 
doctors are employed by the owner and not by the State, and 
often do their work perfunctorily. The remedy would be to 
put the factory surgeon on the staff of the school doctor and 
so get continuity of knowledge applied to the child. 

However, many boys and girls are employed outside of the 
Factory Acts. These are affected by the Employment of 
Children Act which enables a Local Authority to make by- 
laws stating the age under which children may not be em- 
ployed, and regulating conditions of employment in certain 
occupations, e.g. street -trading, and stating the number of 
hours which children still attending school may work out of 
school. All this, however, applies only up to fourteen. 

Hence the machinery for guarding the health of the 
adolescent is clearly pretty inadequate, and consequently 
much of the care given to health in school is wasted ; e.g. a 
child with weak lungs goes into a printing factory or a child 
with weak heart goes into heavy work. The machinery 
needed is growing up, largely on voluntary lines, in the form 
of Committees to deal with employment. These are called 
" Juvenile Advisory Committees " if set up under the Board 
of Trade, and " Choice of Employment Committees " if under 
the Education Authority ; but each does practically the same 
work. 

In London, these Committees include representatives from 
the School Care Committees, teachers, the school doctors, 
local employers of labour, trade unions, etc., and their work 
is organised as follows : 

Just before the child leaves school the question of his 
future work is placed before him and his parents, generally 
at a meeting at the school between parents and representa- 
tives 6f the Labour Exchange, School Care Committee and 
Evening Schools. Here a school-leaving form is filled up, 
giving details of the child's career, ability, and the kind of 
employment the head teacher thinks best for him. Also the 






MEDICAL INSPECTION AND TREATMENT 249 

report of the last school medical inspection is given. If the 
parent has plans for the child's future, nothing further is 
done, except that the form is sent to the Labour Exchange. 

However, if the parents have no particular plans for the 
child the question is dealt with by a sub-committee which 
meets twice a week at the Exchange to discuss available 
situations. Parents and children are invited to these meet- 
ings. Thirdly, the Committee keeps in touch with the boys and 
girls for whom they have procured work, finds out how they 
are getting on, if they are suited to the work, and so on. 

This movement is the beginning of health-supervision 
after school days. The age dealt with is from fourteen to 
seventeen, but the new Education Act (1918) raises the limit 
to eighteen. Further, when the Continuation School clauses 
of the new Act are put into force, there will be medical 
supervision of the adolescent up to the age o f eighteen. 



CHAPTER XXVI 

FIRST AID IN MINOR INJURIES AND 
COMMON AILMENTS 

EVERY teacher should know enough about the accidents and 
ailments that are likely to occur unexpectedly in school to 
enable him or her to do what is necessary before the doctor 
arrives, or in any case to prevent things becoming worse 
than they need be. In all but quite trivial matters the doctor 
should be sent for. 

Unconsciousness. This may be due to various causes, e.g. 
fainting, epileptic fits, apoplexy, hysterical fits, concussion 
of the brain, or sunstroke, but all have one root, viz. injury 
to or disease of the cerebrum, and in every case the child should 
be laid flat on the floor, other children should be sent away, 
doors and windows should be opened so as to supply fresh 
air, and clothing at neck, chest and waist should be loosened. 
If the face be pale the head should be kept low, but if flushed, 
then the head should be raised. In the following notes this 
preliminary treatment is assumed in each case. 

1. Fainting. This is the commonest kind of fit and is dealt 
with in Chapter IV. 

2. Epileptic Fits are discussed in Chapter XIX. No 
stimulant must be given. 

3. Stroke or Apoplexy is very unlikely to occur in school, 
but if a child fall without any sound and lie still, with its face 
flushed and noisy breathing, apoplexy may be suspected. 
The condition is due to a blood-vessel breaking in the brain, 
and it needs quiet, no stimulants, a hot bottle at the feet and 
a towel dipped in cold water on the head. A doctor must, of 
course, be sent for. 

4. Hysterical Fits are discussed in Chapter XIX. 

5. Concussion or Stunning. This is due to a shock to the 

250 



FIRST AID IN MINOR INJURIES 251 

brain, caused by a blow or fall on the head, and therefore 
may quite possibly occur in school. The child falls down 
unconscious, its face is pale, its breathing very quiet or hardly 
perceptible and its body cold. Often it is sick when con- 
sciousness is returning. 

Treatment. The doctor should be sent for and meanwhile 
a cold, wet towel should be put on the head. No stimulant 
must be given, and the child must be kept very quiet. 

6. Sunstroke (heat -apoplexy or heat-stroke). This may 
result from exposing the bare head to a hot sun for some time. 
The child becomes suddenly sick, faint, and giddy and gasps 
for breath. It feels very thirsty, and the face is hot and 
flushed. Finally it may become unconscious. 

Treatment. It should be placed in the coolest and shadiest 
place possible, stripped to the waist, and cold water should 
be poured on head and neck. When consciousness returns, a 
cold, wet towel should be kept on the head for several hours. 
Cold water should be given to drink, but no stimulant. 

Bleeding 

1. Nose Bleeding. Make the child sit up, with its head 
flung back and its arms above the head, as this decreases the 
blood-supply to the head. Apply a cold-water pad to the 
back of the neck and the bridge of the nose. Make the child 
breathe through the mouth. If this does not avail it can 
snuff up cold water with a little salt or vinegar in it. 

2. Bleeding from Wounds. Here the aim of treatment is 
twofold : to stop loss of blood and to prevent blood-poisoning. 

(a) A clean scratch or slight wound. Here the only danger is 
from blood-poisoning. Hence do not touch the wound nor 
wash it, but let the blood dry and so close the wound naturally. 
Then put on a pad of old clean linen or boracic lint and fix it 
in place with a bandage. If bleeding does not stop, put on 
the pad as before, but bandage it on tightly, and the pressure 
will stop the flow. 

(b) A slight but dirty wound. Here the treatment is as 
before except that the wound should first be well swabbed 
with wool soaked in iodine solution (two per cent iodine in 
alcohol). 



252 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

(c) A deep wound. Here the bleeding is more serious and 
may be either arterial (spurting) or venous (steady). Try to 
stop it by putting a hard pad of boracic lint on the wound and 
bandaging tightly, and if this fail, stop the flow by pressing 
on the artery near the wound, on the side nearer the heart. 

To do this, the teacher should know the course of the main 
arteries and the position of the pressure-points on them. 
This can be learned from any good book on first aid, such as 
that of the St.' John Ambulance Association (is. net). 
Pressure on the artery can be kept up for a short time by the 
thumb, but if it be needed for a long time, a tourniquet can be 
applied, if the wound be in a limb. 

A tourniquet consists of a hard pad and a bandage which 
can be twisted until very tight by a stick. It can be im- 
provised by tying a knot in the middle of a handkerchief 




V 

Fig. 84. Tourniquet on thigh 



FIRST AID IN MINOR INJURIES 253 

putting the knot on the artery, tying the end in a reef knot on 
the opposite side of the limb, pushing a stick under this last 
knot and twisting it until the bandage is very tight. Or a 
hard pad, made from a stone wrapped up in a piece of lint 
can be used on the artery instead of the knot. 

Venous bleeding is easier to stop. If pressure on the 
wound fail, tie a tight bandage round the limb on the side 
further from the heart . 

Broken Bones . Directly a bone breaks it tends to shorten, 
because the broken ends cross, owing to the pull of the attached 
muscles. The periosteum and marrow both make bone- 
material and try to fill up the space between the broken ends 
with a sort of jelly which gradually dries, becoming putty- 
like and eventually ossifying, so mending the fracture. Hence 
the need of keeping the end of the bone in correct position 
whilst the fracture is setting ; otherwise we get a distorted 
limb and the bone may have to be broken and re-set. Another 
reason for fixing the broken ends at once in correct position 
is that, if free, they stretch and tear the periosteum and sur- 
rounding tissues, so causing great pain. The jagged ends 
may even push through the skin, so converting a simple into 
a compound fracture and introducing the danger of blood- 
poisoning from the germs in the air. Hence a fracture should 
be treated on the spot where it occurs. Children are very 
liable to greenstick fracture, i.e. the bones are so plastic that 
they bend instead of breaking. Of the fractures likely to be 
met with in school, those of legs, arms and collar-bones are 
perhaps commonest. 

Signs of fracture include pain, swelling, inability to move 
the broken limb, deformity (e.g. the limb lies in unnatural 
positions), shortening and greater mobility when another 
person tries to move the limb. 

General rules for treatment : 

1. Treat on the spot. 

2. Do not remove clothing unless there is a wound. 

3. Tie bandage tightly, with reef-knots on the splints. 

4. Cover the patient to keep him warm and so lessen the 
effect of the shock of the accident. 

5. If doubtful, treat as a fracture. 



254 



A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 



Broken Thigh-bone. Pull the foot gently till the injured 
leg is of the same length as the other, and then tie both feet 
together to a splint. A splint is a contrivance for keeping 




Fig. 85. Bandages for broken thigh-bone 

(From First Aid. St. John Ambulance Association) 

a limb stiff and can be improvised from broom-handles, rifles, 
umbrellas, walking-sticks, hockey-sticks, rulers, etc. In this 
case it must reach from arm-pit to heels and should be kept 
in place by six more bandages, as follows : 

(A) Round the chest, just (D) Below the fracture. 

below the arm-pits. (E) Round the lower leg. 

(B) Round the hips. (G) Round both knees. 

(C) Above the fracture. 

Fracture of the lower Leg. Here, one or both bones may 
be broken ; in the former case there will be no shortening. 




Fig. 86. Fracture ot lower leg 

(From First Aid. St. John Ambulance Association) 

Apply a splint as before, except that it need only reach from 
the heels to above the knees, and fix it with five bandages : 

(D) Round both feet and (B)' Below the fracture, 
splint. (C) Above the knee. 

(A) Above the fracture. (E) Round both knees. 



FIRST AID IN MINOR INJURIES 255 

Broken Arm . Put on two splints, one on the outside, from 
shoulder to elbow, and one on the inside, from the arm-pit to 




Fig:. 87. Broken arm 
(From First Aid. St. John Ambulance Association) 

the bend of the elbow. Fasten with two bandages, one above 
and one below the fracture, and support in a sling. 

The diagram shows four splints, but two suffice. 

Broken Forearm. Here, as in the leg, either one or both of 
she bones may be broken, and in the former case there is no 
thortening. Bend the forearm at right angles to the arm and 




Fig-. 88. Broken forearm 

(From First Aid. St. John Ambulance Association) 

apply two splints, one on the back and one on the front of the 
forearm, reaching from elbow to finger-tips. Fasten with 
three bandages : above and below the fracture and round 
the hand. Put the arm in a sling. 

Broken Collar-bone. This often happens in football, 
bicycle accidents, etc., and renders the arm more or less useless. 

Take off the coat, put a hard pad (made by rolling up a 
stone or cork in a handkerchief) in the arm-pit, put the arm 
in a sling and tie the elbow tightly to the side, by a bandage 



256 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

round the body. This forces the shoulder out and so keeps 
the broken ends of the bone apart .- 

Dislocations. Here, the end of the bone is displaced at the 
joint, the commonest joints affected being those of the 
shoulder, elbow, thumb, finger or lower jaw. The symptoms 
are pain, swelling, unnatural position of the limb and fixity 
at the joint. The treatment consists in applying cold-water 
bandages, and when these cease to give relief, hot fomentations 
(a flannel or towel wrung out of hot water). 

If out of doors, prevent jolting by putting the arm (if the 
dislocation lie in this limb) in a sling and fastening it to the 
body. In any case, send the child to or send for the doctor. 

Sprains. These are due to the stretching or tearing of a 
ligament or tendon or muscle round a joint, owing to a wrench 
or twist. Turning the ankle over is the commonest example. 
The symptoms are pain, swelling and discoloration. 

Treatment. If some distance from home, bandage the foot 
and ankle tightly, and then wet the bandage. This tightens 
it. If in the house, or on reaching it, remove the boot and 
treat as for dislocation. Prolonged rest is needed. 

Bruises. These are due to oozing of blood from the capil- 
laries into the surrounding tissues. Apply cold water to stop the 
bleeding, followed by hot water to helpabsorb the effused blood. 

Burns and Scalds. Burns are due to dry and scalds to 
moist heat. The great danger is shock which means a state 
of collapse indicated by pallor, coldness, weak breathing 
and pulse, which may end in death. 

Burns vary in severity from those in which the skin is 
simply rendered red and sore, through those in which it is 
blistered, up to the severe burn in which the skin and possibly 
the deeper tissues are destroyed. The last type, though 
most severe, is least painful, because the nerve-ends in the 
skin are destroyed. 

Treatment : 

1. Take off the clothing very gently, unless it be stuck to 
the wound, in which case cut round the stuck part, soak what 
is left adhering to the skin with oil and leave it for the doctor 
to deal with. 

2. Never break blisters. 



FIRST AID IN MINOR INJURIES 257 

3. Cover the burn, at once, with lint or clean rag soaked in 
oil or smeared with vaseline, lanoline or cold cream. Any 
vegetable oil will do (e.g. linseed, olive oil, salad oil), but the 
best is carron oil, i.e. a mixture of equal parts of lime-water 
and linseed oil. If the burn be large the dressing should be 
put on in overlapping strips of the size of one's hand, instead 
of in one big piece, so that it can be removed a little at a 
time when fresh dressing is needed, so avoiding exposure of 
a large area of burnt flesh to the air. 

4. Cotton-wool should then be put on and the whole 
bandaged. 

5. Shock should be treated by supplying warmth and small 
frequent doses of brandy in hot water. Alcohol, being a 
narcotic, relieves pain. Or, hot coffee, or a teaspoonful of 
sal- volatile in a wineglass of water may be given. 

Clothing on Fire. When a person's clothes catch on fire, 
he should not rush for help, as this causes a draught which 
fans the flames, but he should roll on the floor, if possible 
wrapping himself in a rug or table-cloth, because this may 
stamp out the fire and makes injury to the face less likely. 
(Flame quickly runs upward.) If another person be present, 
it is his duty to push the burning person down, fling over him a 
rug, coat or anything else available, and so crush out the fire. 

Insect Stings, i. Pull out the sting, if it can be seen, with 
fine forceps, or by pressing the end of a watch-key into the 
flesh round the sting. This often forces the sting out. 

2. Mop the place with dilute ammonia, or spirits, or a strong 
solution of washing-soda. 

Foreign Bodies, (a) In the Eye. Generally the foreign 
body is on the under-surface of the upper lid. Hence, take 
hold of the eyelashes and roll the lid inside-out over a match- 
stick, hairpin, small pencil, etc., and wipe the surface thus 
exposed with a handkerchief or camel-hair brush, towards 
the nose. Another method is to pull the upper lid over the 
lower and then let go, when the eyelashes of the lower lid will 
often wipe the obstruction off the upper lid. If this fail, 
put a drop of oil in the eye, bandage lightly, and take the 
child to the doctor. 

(b) In the ear. Children often push beads, peas, etc., into 



258 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

each other's ears, and this is very dangerous because inflam- 
mation may be set up and spread to the brain. Fill the ear 
with oil, which may make the object float out. If it does not 
appear, take the child to a doctor. Never probe into the ear. 

(c) In the nose. Children often push beads, peas, etc., up 
the nostrils. In this case, make the child sneeze, by giving 
pepper or snuff. Also, make him blow his nose hard, whilst 
closing the unaffected nostril. 

(d) In the throat. This causes choking and must be treated 
quickly. Open the child's mouth, put the first finger down 
the throat as far as possible and try to hook the obstruction 
out. If this make the child sick, so much the better. If it 
fail, slap the child hard on the back, and if this also fail, hold 
him up by his heels, unless he be too big, whilst an assistant 
slaps his back. If the child become unconscious, apply 
artificial respiration. 

Drowning. A child may get out of his depth in a swimming 
bath, etc., and be brought out unconscious and apparently 
dead, but one must never give up hope until prolonged 
attempts at restoration have been made. 

Send for the doctor and also for hot blankets and bottles. 
Meanwhile loosen clothing at neck, chest and waist, clear the 
mouth of anything like seaweed, which may be obstructing 
the air-passage, turn the body face down and raise it at the 
waist for a few moments, to let water drain out of the stomach. 
Then turn it over on the back, put a rolled-up coat under the 
shoulders and apply artificial respiration thus : 

I. Pull out the tongue and keep it out by tying a tape 
round it and the chin, or an assistant can hold it. 




Fig 1 . 89. Inspiration 

(From First Aid. St. John Ambulance Association) 



FIRST AID IN MINOR INJURIES 259 

2. Kneel behind the patient, grasp the forearms just below 
the elbows, raise the arms above the head and then bring 
them down with strong pressure on the chest. The arms 
must be moved in the plane of the floor, not up in the air. 
Repeat this action seventeen times per minute, counting two 
slowly after each movement. The effect is that the ribs are 
alternately raised and lowered seventeen times per minute, 
as in natural breathing, and so air is forced in and out of the 
lungs. This should be kept up by relays of workers till 
respiration is restored or the doctor says the child is dead. 
Hot bottles should meanwhile be put at the feet. 

3. Directly any signs of breathing appear, the artificial 
respiration can be stopped for a time, whilst hot blankets are 




Fig. 90. Expiration 

(From First Aid. St. John Ambulance Association) 

wrapped round the body and the limbs are rubbed briskly 
towards the heart, and as soon as the patient can swallow, 
give him hot coffee or bovril or milk. Watch the child care- 
fully to see that breathing does not again stop ; if it does, 
begin artificial respiration again. 

Poisons, i. Find out the nature of the poison and save 
any remains. 

2. Send for the doctor at once, telling him as much as you 
can about the case. 

3. If the lips and tongue are swollen, blistered or covered 
with white patches and the child finds it hard to breathe 
or swallow, do not give an emetic, because the poisoning is 



260 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

due to aeid or alkali, both of which burn and lacerate the 
mouth, gullet and stomach, so that the strain of vomiting 
might fatally injure the already weakened tissues. 

(a) If alkali (strong ammonia, caustic soda or potash, etc.) 
has been swallowed, give vinegar and water to neutralise it. 

(b) If acids (e.g. nitric, sulphuric, hydrochloric, oxalic 
acids) have been swallowed, give bicarbonate of soda or wash- 
ing soda in milk, to neutralise the acid. In both cases follow 
up the antidote with a soothing drink of olive oil and milk. 

4. If there be no signs of burning of the mouth, give an 
emetic (one dessertspoonful of mustard or one tablespoonful 
of salt in a tumbler of lukewarm water, or, for a little child, 
a teaspoonful of ipecacuanha wine every fifteen minutes). 
After sickness has been thus induced, give a soothing drink, 
as above. 

5. If the child be very sleepy, he has probably taken a 
narcotic, such as opium, morphia, laudanum, chlorodyne, 
etc., and must be kept awake at all costs, as otherwise he may 
become unconscious and die. Hence, walk him about, give 
strong coffee, pinch him, in fact resort to any means you can 
think of to ward off sleep. 

The Emergency First Aid Case. No school is properly 
equipped without such a case. It need not cost more than a 
few shillings, and should contain the following articles : 

1. Triangular bandages. 12. Several pads, of various 

2. Roller bandages, of differ- sizes. 

ent widths. 13. A stick (for tourniquet). 

3. Cotton-wool. 14. Several splints. 

4. Lint. 15. Carron oil. 

5. Sticking plaster. 16. Vinegar. 

6. Safety pins. 17. Bicarbonate of soda. 

7. A camel-hair brush. 18. A two per cent solution 

8. Tape. of iodine in alcohol. 

9. Scissors. 19. Olive oil. 

10. Fine tweezers. 20. Salt or mustard. 

11, Watch-key. 21. Spoons of various sizes. 



CHAPTER XXVII 
SPECIAL SCHOOLS 

Mentally defective Epileptic Backward classes Blind and deaf 
Partially blind and deaf Sanatorium schools Open-air schools. 

i. Mentally Deficient. These schools were made permis- 
sible under the Elementary Education (Defective and Epileptic 
Children) Act, 1899, and compulsory under the Elementary 
Education (Defective and Epileptic Children) Act, 1914. 
These Acts state that the provision may be in the form of 
special schools or special classes in an ordinary school. 

Character of the Education, (i) The school should be 
on the outskirts of the town, so that there may be a large 
playground, and it should be of the open-air type, where 
gardening is possible. Till now, they have mostly been 
placed centrally, but facilities for transit are now much im- 
proved and largely do away with the objections to an 
outskirt position. 

(i) The- curriculum should provide adequate physical 
education by means of training in personal hygiene, games 
and physical exercise. Each child should have a towel, brush 
and comb, and tooth-brush. Shower baths should be installed. 
A midday meal is desirable both from the physical and the 
educational point of view. (2) Mental Education should be 
very practical and manual, since these children show much 
more aptitude for practical pursuits than for acquiring 
abstract ideas, and physiologists hold that brain-develop- 
ment is encouraged by this means. Direct and formal in- 
tellectual instruction is of little use, but children should be 
taught objectively and incidentally to read, write and count 
if possible, but if they prove incapable of this it is best not 
to waste time over it. They may still succeed at handwork, 

261 



262 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

but if this too is impossible they should be dismissed from 
school. Special attention should be given to speech-training, 
for most of the children have speech defects. (3) Manual 
Work. At least half of the school time should be given to it, 
and from fourteen to sixteen years of age children should 
specialise in one form by which they may earn a living. Such 
manual work should be chosen as will stimulate the faculties 
by securing the interest of the children. Often much time is 
given to making objects of no practical interest to children, 
because they could not find a useful place in their own homes. 
On the other hand, the making of clogs, boots and their own 
clothes, etc., has much more value as a mental stimulus, and 
in some special schools, e.g. Bristol Street, Birmingham, this 
principle is acted on. 

General Regulations, (i) The Board of Education recognises 
three kinds of arrangement : (i) Day schools ; (ii) boarding 
schools ; (iii) homes used for boarding and lodging children 
taught in (i). (2) Admission and retention. Every child 
must be certified defective before admission. Children are 
not admitted under five nor kept after sixteen, nor if incapable 
of profiting by the instruction. (3) The duration of the 
school-meeting must not be more than two and a half hours, 
and there must be at least one and a half hours' interval 
between the morning and afternoon meetings. (4) The curri- 
culum must include English language (speaking, reading, 
writing), arithmetic, knowledge of common things, including 
nature study and observation, drawing, singing, physical 
exercise, sewing and manual instruction, suitable forms 
being : 

(a) Younger Children. 

Bead-threading. Drawing. 

Paper folding. Clay modelling. 

Paper tearing. Macrame work. 

Paper cutting and mounting. Netting and other 

string work. 

Paper mat making. Kindergarten sewing. 

Wood strip work. Pith cane work. 



SPECIAL SCHOOLS 263 

(b) Older Boys. ( c ) Older Girls. 

Drawing and design. Cookery. 

Woodwork and carpentry. Laundry. 

Tailoring. Housewifery. 

Shoe-making and repairing Needlework. 

Cardboard modelling. Knitting. 

Chair caning. Mending. 

Gardening and farmwork. Machine sewing. 

Household employments. Drawing and design. 

Mat and rug making. Basket work. 

Repousse. Chair caning. 

Bent iron work. Gardening. 
Printing. 
Baking. 
Basket work. 

(5) Size of class. The maximum number of children per class 
is twenty, unless there are more than two classes in the 
school, in which case the maximum number is twenty-five, 
except in the two lowest classes. (6) Buildings, (a) Schools 
for various types of afflicted children must not be in the same 
building unless structurally separated, (b) There must be 
fifteen square feet of floor space per child, (c) Single desks 
must be provided. (7) Boarding-out of Children, (a) No 
child can be boarded out without the parents' consent, (b) 
Except in the case of brothers and sisters, not more than one 
child is to be boarded in the same house, (c) No child is to be 
boarded out in a home in which there are more than four 
children, counting the defective child, (d) Each child is 
visited monthly by a member of the Boarding-out Com- 
mittee . 

Existing Provision. There are 185 schools in England and 
Wales, accommodating 14,600 of the 30,000 defective children 
existing and needing education. Of these 185 schools, 172 are 
day and 13 are residential schools. Sir G. Newman estimates 
that forty per cent of feeble-minded children need day schools 
and sixty per cent need residential schools. The ideal is the 
residential school, which is part of a Colony, such as Sandle- 
bridge Home, Great Warford, Cheshire, so that children may 



264 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

continue under life-long supervision. If they are turned 
loose in the world at sixteen, they deteriorate rapidly ; many 
drift into workhouses before thirty ; many of the women have 
large families of illegitimate children who inherit the mental 
defect of the parent, i.e. the money spent in education is 
wasted. It was the realisation of this fact that brought about 
the passing of the Mental Deficiency Bill in 1913, which 
legalises permanent care of the feeble-minded. 

2. Epileptic Schools. Here the Board only recognises 
boarding schools. Eighty per cent of epileptic children are 
unfit for the ordinary school for the following reasons : (i) 
They are generally dull, even in facial expression. (2) They 
are often unduly emotional. (3) Speech is usually indistinct 
and defective and acquired late. (4) Fits occurring in school 
place undue strain on the teacher and on the other children. 
On the other hand, education is very necessary to stop the 
mental deterioration which usually sets in. At present six 
epileptic schools exist, accommodating 500 children ; 6,430 
epileptic children exist, excluding London. The school 
should form part of a Colony, partly to prevent marriage, 
since epilepsy is strongly hereditary, and " many are also 
said to give the reaction for syphilis " (Kerr). Gowers found 
that fifty per cent of the children of epileptics were epileptic. 
Also, instead of being epileptic, they may be mentally deficient, 
i.e. considerably more than fifty per cent are either epileptic 
or mentally defective. The regulations are much the same as 
for mentally defective schools, but more subjects must be 
taught, viz. composition, history, geography, literature, and 
the manual work can be more advanced and must be chosen 
with a view to (i) training the manual and mental powers. 
(2) Fitting the child to earn a living. Care must be taken to 
avoid dangerous tools. 

3. Backward Classes. (See Chapter XII.) 

4. Special Schools for the Blind and Deaf. The general 
regulations are much as for the mentally defective and 
epileptic. The curriculum includes all the usual school 
subjects, but the time demanded for manual instruction is 
less ; a minimum of four hours weekly is necessary. The 
deaf are to be taught by the oral method where possible. 



SPECIAL SCHOOLS 265 

Fifteen is the maximum number for a blind, and ten for a 
deaf, class. The blind and deaf must be taught separately. 

Forms of manual work suitable for defective and epileptic 
are also suitable for the deaf, with the addition of dress- 
making, corset making, lace making and baking. For blind 
(a) younger children : Mat plaiting, bead-threading, lacing, 
clay modelling, knitting, netting and string-work, straw 
plaiting, rug and mat making, pith cane work, (b) Older boys: 
Clay modelling, basket work, chair caning, brush-making, 
woodwork, bent iron work, (c) Older girls : Sloyd needle- 
work, needlework, knitting, mending, chair caning, basket 
work, brush-making. For methods of educating the deaf 
see Chapter XV. 

5. Of more interest possibly to the ordinary teacher are 
the classes for the semi-deaf, and semi-blind (high myopes) 
which have been started recently in a few places. Six classes 
(in London and Bristol) provide for the instruction of the 
semi-deaf. Seven classes in London, one in Bristol and some 
elsewhere provide for the semi-blind. (See Chapter XIV.) 

6. Sanatorium Schools. The Finance Act of 1911 set 
aside 100,000 for sanatorium schools for children suffering 
from tuberculosis. The Local Government Board distributed 
the money, but the Board of Education approved the plans for 
education of the children. There are now six day and eighteen 
residential sanatorium schools. In them, everything is done 
in the open air, and the lesson-time is only. half what it is in 
the ordinary schools ; in spite of which the children keep up 
to their standard. It is much better that children who need 
sanatorium treatment should also continue their education 
for two reasons : (a) They are happier if occupied, (b) They 
are fitted to earn a living. On leaving, they should go to an 
open-air day school. 

7. Open-air Education. A good many Education 
Authorities now provide for this in some form or other, (i) 
Sometimes it is in the form of playground classes. In London, 
and elsewhere, the bandstands in the parks have been used 
for this purpose for some years. (2) Another plan is the 
organisation of school-journeys, by means of which children 
get country holidays, varying from one day to two or three 



SPECIAL SCHOOLS 267 

weeks, during which they are also taught. (3) In many 
areas open-air class-rooms or schools have been started. 
(Twelve day and nine residential.) (4) In a few areas 
residential open-air schools of recovery for the education and 
treatment of children suffering from severe debility or other 
defect of similar nature have been established. All these 
show good results in increased health and vitality, and it is 
very desirable that there should be wide extension of this 
type of education, specially for delicate and debilitated 
children. The following accounts appeared in The Times 
Educational Supplement during 1918 and indicate the kind 
of work being done. 

i. " The Children's Care Committee of the Coventry Educa- 
tion Committee have recently reported on the work done by 
them last year on behalf of delicate and ailing children. An 
open-air class for weakly children was held at one of the council 
schools in the town from 30 April to 12 October, the average 
weekly attendance being twenty-eight, and during that 
period 2,935 meals were supplied, or an average of 147 per 
week. In addition to a cup of cocoa, soup, etc., supplied in 
the middle of the morning, each child attending the class had 
a substantial two-course dinner every day, the cost of the 
food amounting to 71 73. gd., towards which the parents 
made a contribution of 43 155. Two classes of this kind are 
being held during the present season , with specially appointed 
teachers, who will be paid at the rate of 10 per annum beyond 
the ordinary scale, and the purchase of additional necessary 
equipment has been sanctioned. 

In addition to the open-air class, an open-air camp was 
opened on 6 May, and kept open until 30 October, and thirty- 
nine children (twenty-three girls and sixteen boys) were 
admitted at various times, and stayed for periods varying 
from three to twenty-five weeks. Each child was weighed on 
admission, and at frequent intervals during his or her stay, 
and all children showed considerable increase in weight, one 
girl increasing to the extent of eighteen pounds in the course 
of her time at the camp, the average increase being half a 
pound per week. The Care Committee thought it very 
desirable that, in one form or another, the camp should be 



SPECIAL SCHOOLS 269 

resumed during the present summer, in spite of the difficulty 
of the food supply, and it was therefore decided to resume 
operations on the same lines as last year, and the Education 
Committee have made a grant towards the expenses of 250 
for the financial year ending 31 March, 1919." 

2. "The Plymouth Education Committee have taken a 
further step forward in their plans for the provision of an 
open-air school and are proceeding with the establishment 
of a day school of this kind with accommodation for 200 
children, it being felt to be important that the scheme should 
be started whilst the weather is most suitable for the gradual 
acclimatisation of the children to open-air conditions. The 
plan decided upon is to rent a suitable building with a site of 
from four to eight acres, using the existing building for 
administrative purposes and for the staff, and avoiding 
expensive structural alterations. In the grounds, open-air 
class-rooms, mainly of wood, are to be erected, each sufficient 
to accommodate twenty or thirty children, all the sides of 
the class-rooms njade to be opened or closed according to 
atmospheric conditions, so that on fine days children working 
under cover will have the benefit of fresh air from every side. 
It is hoped to erect fairly substantial shelters so that the 
school can be carried on all the year round, and they will be 
readily portable, so that they can be moved when a permanent 
site is ultimately obtained. In addition to the class-rooms 
a shed will be built to be used for resting and as a dining- 
room, and for assembly and marching on wet days. Three 
plain but nourishing meals will be provided by the Education 
Authority each day, the cost of which will be repaid by the 
parents in whole, or in part, according to their respective 
means. The equipment of the school will be upon the simplest 
lines, and the chairs in the class-rooms will be of such light 
construction that each child will be able to move his own 
chair to the various places where it will be used. Much of 
the simpler school equipment will be made in the school 
workshop when the work is properly established. 

Admissions to the open-air school will be determined by 
the Medical Officer, and no boy or girl will be admitted who 
is unable to undertake two sessions of school work each day. 



270 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

For the present it is suggested that the minimum age shall be 
fixed at seven years, and all children will be under the constant 
supervision of the school Medical Officer whilst in attendance 
at the school, and they will be kept at the school until there 
appears to be a lasting recovery, the average stay being, 
perhaps, about six months, although the period of attendance 
will vary in individual cases. The approximate cost for the 
erection and maintenance of an open-air school of this kind 
for 100 and 200 children respectively is estimated at 1,570 
and 2,835 f r establishment charges, and 2,570 and 4,480 
for annual maintenance charges, including all rent, salaries, 
cost of meals, etc. As against these charges the amounts 
received would probably be about 1,360 or 2,720 for 100 
or 200 children respectively, composed of a Board of Education 
grant at 4 per child and parents' contributions towards 
food." 

3. " London. The fact that the Council has, at the present 
time, only two open-air schools is due to a variety of causes 
chiefly arising from the special and peculiar needs of an open- 
air school. Many proposals have been made for the establish- 
ment of such schools, but on examination and inquiry it has 
not been found practicable to adopt any of them. 

It may be added that a provisional sum has been included 
in the estimates for the current year for the establishment of 
additional schools, but, in view of the difficulties as regards 
labour and materials and the shortage of teaching staff, it is 
very improbable that this money will be spent during the 
year. 

On the other hand, the Council has inaugurated and 
developed a system of open-air or playground classes. A 
large number of such classes have been held during the summer 
months (usually from about the beginning of May till about 
the end of October) in connection with the elementary schools 
maintained by the Council. These classes are held either in 
parks or open spaces or in the school playgrounds. In 1914 
the number of such classes was more than one hundred, but 
owing to various causes resulting from the war this number 
has declined to fifty-six. 

It should be added that the Education Committee of the 



SPECIAL SCHOOLS 271 

Council have recently had under consideration the whole 
question of the education and treatment of tuberculous and 
pre-tuberculous children and of children ' needing open-air 
treatment, and that a Joint Sub-Committee of the Education 
and Public Health Committees of the Council has been 
appointed to consider the matter and submit recommendations 
with a view to the settlement of the principle of dealing with 
these classes of children." 

As an illustration, I will describe rather more fully, the 
open-air school at Knowle, a suburb of Bristol. The school 
was opened in 1913, as the result of private philanthropy and 
enterprise, its supporters hoping that the Education Com- 
mittee would take it over when it had demonstrated its utility. 
The school is built on a hill, on the edge of the town, so that 
on one side it overlooks beautiful country, as the illustrations 
show. It is just at the end of a tram-line connecting it with 
the city, and this is of importance, as it enables children to 
come from all parts of the city by tram. The children collect 
on Bristol Bridge at 8.30 a.m. and are there met by the 
school nurse, who accompanies them for the rest of the 
journey to school. 

With regard to the building, I cannot do better than quote 
the description published at the opening of the school : "In 
planning it, an endeavour has been made to obtain the maxi- 
mum amount of sunlight and air and yet to screen the class- 
room and rest -shed, as far as possible, from cold winds. The 
building is therefore schemed in the form of the letter L, with 
the dining-room, class-room and rest -shed facing a little south 
of S.E. and screened by the administrative portion of building 
which faces N.E. The school comprises a class-room, and 
rest-shed fifty feet by twenty-five feet, dining-room twenty 
by twenty-five feet, bathroom, nurses' and teachers' rooms, 
clothes store, boys' and girls' cloakrooms and offices, kitchen, 
larder and stores for fuel, rest chairs and tools. 

The dining-room, class-room and rest -shed obtain direct 
sunlight during the whole of the day, and all other rooms 
used by the children during some portion of the day. The 
S.E. side of class-room and rest-shed is open, the end and 
N.W. side being enclosed and fitted with windows and French 




X 
X 

X 

X 



3 



CD 



ro 



I s 



y 




!l 



*|001 




SPECIAL SCHOOLS 273 

casements respectively. (Subsequently it was found neces- 
sary to supply French windows on the S.E. side also, as the 
winds in winter were so violent.) Opening fanlights, carried 
up to the full height of the room, are fitted over the French 
casements, so that on all of these being thrown open, the 
class-room and rest -shed become practically an open shed. 
The dining-room is fitted with similar doors and fanlights, 
and thorough cross-ventilation is obtained by the use of the 
latter, the doors being closed during very inclement weather. 
The dining-room is divided from the class-room and rest- 
shed by a swivel-hung glazed partition, which folds back to 
each side of the room, thus obtaining an unimpeded floor 
space of 1,750 square feet. 

The bathroom is fitted with the necessary dressing cubicles 
and six shower baths, a mixing valve fitted with a thermometer 
being provided on the service pipes, so that baths of any 
desired temperature can be given. The advantage of shower 
baths over slipper baths is that the risk of contagion is reduced 
to a minimum. Hot water is also laid on to the lavatory 
basins in the children's cloakrooms, a rather unusual pro- 
vision in schools. 

The walls of the building are constructed of timber framing 
on a brick foundation, the framing being boarded and felted 
and sheeted on the outside with weather-boarding ; all 
exposed timber (including internal joinery) is treated with 
solignum preservative. The roofs are boarded and felted and 
covered with sand-faced pantiles. All the floors are jointless, 
and the material is brought four inches up the walls to form 
a curved skirting, thus enabling them to be hosed down if 
desired. With the exception of class-room and rest -shed, all 
internal walls are plastered and distempered, or finished in 
enamel.'' 

A ccommodation. The school provides for sixty-five children, 
but there were eighty-eight on the books when I last visited 
it, and there is always a waiting-list. 

Duration of stay. There is no fixed time limit. The children 
stay as long as the doctor considers necessary. 

Payments by parents. These vary with the circumstances 
of the parents. 
18 





95~96- Classes working out-of-doors : Bristol Open-Air School 





Fig-. 97-98. Classes working out-of doors ; Bristol Open-Air Schooi 



SPECIAL SCHOOLS 

Holidays. Saturday and Sunday are holidays, but there 
are no " long " holidays, the teachers taking their holidays 
in rotation. 

Selection of children. This is done by the school doctors, 
and the cases included, at my last visit, malnutrition, debility, 
anaemia, old chorea, pre-tubercular, tubercular glands, con- 
valescents from phthisis, tubercular enteritis, asthma, bron- 
chitis, empyema, heart disease, lateral spinal curvature. 
Cases of open (or infectious) tuberculosis are not admitted. 

The curriculum lays stress on (i) physical exercise, especially 
on breathing exercises which are done twice daily for five 
minutes. (2) Manual work, which occupies six hours weekly 
and includes gardening, woodwork, basket and raffia-work, 
etc. (3) Nature study. 

Meals. Though a day school, three meals are provided, viz. 
breakfast, dinner and tea, after which the children go home. 
Tea-time is varied so that the children get away in daylight. 
In addition, children for whom the doctor orders it, get milk 
at ii a.m. After dinner there is a two hours' rest on camp- 
bedsteads in the garden if possible. The menus of meals are 
extraordinarily varied and appetising and the cost is as extra- 
ordinarily low, owing to the excellent management of the 
catering. It was only 2s. 2jd. per week per child before the 
war. 

Medical side. The doctor and dentist both visit the school 
weekly. The children are weighed once a fortnight, and 
bathed weekly, under the supervision of the nurse. Teeth 
are cleaned daily, after dinner. 

Clothing. The school supplies rugs, coats, clogs and stock- 
ings, so that the children can have extra clothing in school, 
if necessary. 




CHAPTER XXVIII 
WELFARE OF INFANTS AND YOUNG CHILDREN 

Reasons for attention to this subject : knowledge derived from medical 

inspection, infant mortality, birth-rate Health visiting 

Maternity and child-welfare centres Day nurseries Nursery 
schools Schools for mothers Training of elder girls in the care 
of infants and young children. 

Welfare of Infants and Young Children. The attention 
being paid to this subject nowadays is the result of various 
factors, e.g. (i) the knowledge derived from medical inspection 
of school children, which has demonstrated that children 
enter school with a large number of physical defects due to 
earlier conditions, such as summer diarrhoea, measles, whoop- 
ing cough, respiratory disease and rickets. These conditions, 
or at least the seriousness of their results, are often due to 
ignorance or neglect on the part of the mother, or to ill-health 
of the expectant mother, e.g. what can be said of the maternal 
instinct of the mother who feeds a baby under one year old 
on " chips and a sup of beer. " (Quoted by Dr. Fraser, Chester- 
field.) (2) The study of infant mortality statistics, e.g. in 1900, 
the mortality was 15-4 per cent under one year, of all births. 
In 1912, the mortality was 9-5 per cent under one year, of all 
births. (The general death-rate for all ages =1-3 per cent.) 
These numbers emphasise two facts : (i) The very high 
death-rate in babies compared with other people. In this 
connection one must remember that probably almost as many 
lives are lost from what is called " ante-natal " death (abor- 
tions and still-births). (2) The very considerable fall in 
infant mortality in the twelve years between 1900 and 1912. 
This fall, by the way, went on till the war began, but then 
infant mortality increased again, e.g. in 1915 it was n per 

279 



280 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

cent, and the actual number of deaths in that year was 89,477 
under one year old, and 55,607 at ages one to five years. Since 
then, however, it has again fallen to 9.7 per cent in 1918. Along 
with the very satisfactory fall in infant mortality which began 
in 1900, there also is a marked fall in the birth-rate, from 2-9 
per cent of the population to about 2-2 per cent now, and 
this has helped to concentrate public attention on infant 
mortality. (3) The war has made the whole country realise 
the value, nationally, of our babies, e.g. this is the one 
Government Department which is not urged to economy. 

Decline in the Birth-rate. (From Dr. Newsholme's 
New Tracts for the Times.) This may be due to (i) postpone- 
ment of marriage to a higher age. This has occurred, for in 
1896 the average was 25-08, and in 1909 the average age was 
25-73, but this is not enough to account for more than a tiny 
fraction of the decline in births. (2) Decrease in the pro- 
portion of women aged fifteen to forty-five. (3) Decrease in 
the proportion of women who, marry. But, as a fact, the 
proportions have gone up in both these cases in the last 
fifty years. (4) Reduced fertility. This has occurred mark- 
edly in the last twenty-five years, and is largely volitional. It 
is not so in countries where the influence of the Roman 
Catholic religion is strong, because this Church bans pre- 
ventive measures against child-bearing, e.g. Ireland ; French 
Canada. 

Causes of the reduced Fertility. It might be due to more 
sterile (childless) marriages or to smaller families. All 
statistics, however, point to the latter as the cause. Cause of 
the smaller family. Here there are various possibilities, e.g 
poverty, industrial conditions, spread of the knowledge of 
how to limit the size of families, unselfishness on the part of 
a parent who realises that the income will not support more 
than a few children at the higher standard of comfort which 
many classes now aim at. This merges into selfishness of the 
parents who could support a pretty large family, but won't 
because the mother objects to the interference with her 
liberty entailed by children, or both parents know that it 
may mean fewer luxuries not necessities. This last is one 
of the deplorable features of our modern social state and is 



WELFARE OF INFANTS 281 

on the increase. As Dr. Newsholme says, " The ideal of 
portions of the community, especially of a large proportion of 
that part of it which has sufficient or abundant means, is one 
which is almost pagan in its outlook." "Their sense of 
communal responsibility is undeveloped." " Over prosperity 
may imply a serious moral danger. While among the artisan 
classes and among the even harder-pressed lower ranges of 
the commercial and professional classes there may be economic 
reasons tending towards restricted families, the same excuse 
cannot be urged for those in easy circumstances." 

Fertility in relation to Social Status. Dr. Heron, in a 
Drapers' Company Research Memoir, concludes that in the 
last fifty years the relation between undesirable social 
conditions and a high birth-rate has almost doubled itself ; 
and from a study of the unequal distribution of decline in the 
birth-rate, Professor Pearson concludes that " the mentally 
better stock in the nation is not reproducing itself at the same 
rate as of old, the less able and the less energetic are the more 
fertile, for the last forty years the intellectual classes of the 
nation, enervated by wealth or by love of pleasure, or following 
an erroneous standard of life, have ceased to give in due pro- 
portion the men wanted to carry on the ever-growing work 
of the Empire." One must remember, however, that the 
contribution to a future generation depends on the excess of 
births over deaths, and is not necessarily directly proportionate 
to birth-rate. 

Possibilities of Action, (i) Prevention of marriage amongst 
the unfit, whose defects have been proved hereditary, e.g. 
mental defect, certain forms of epilepsy, venereal disease. 
(2) Development of public opinion, which has an undoubted 
effect on individual conduct, e.g. in discountenancing luxurious 
and extravagant habits and the uncontrolled desire for 
" society " and pleasure. (3) The lowering of some parents' 
standards as to what " providing for " their children means. 
Inheritance of money is a doubtful blessing. 

Causes of the Decline in Infant Mortality since 1900. 

i. The Midwives Act, 1900, regulates the practice of mid- 
wives, who attend more than half the total births in England 



282 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

and Wales. Under this Act, the County or Borough Council 
is responsible for (i) supervision over all midwives. (2) In- 
vestigation of charges of mal-practice, negligence, etc., on the 
part of a midwife and reporting to the Central Midwives 
Board. (3) Suspension of any midwife from practice if this 
appears necessary to prevent the spread of infection. (4) 
Keeping a register of names and addresses of all midwives. 

2. Notification of Births Act, 1907, extended to all areas in 
1915. (i) The father, if living in the house at the time of the 
birth, and any person attending the mother at the time of or 
within six hours of the birth, must give written notice of the 
birth to the Medical Officer of the District, by posting a pre- 
paid letter or card to the Medical Officer of Health at his 
office or residence, within thirty-six hours of the birth, or by 
delivering the same. The Local Authority shall supply forms 
to any doctor or midwife who applies for the same. (2) Any- 
one who fails to give notice of the birth is liable to a fine of 
not more than i. (3) This notification is in addition to the 
requirements for registration of births. 

3. The spread of knowledge of infant care, through the 
elementary school, the health visitor, the baby clinic, and 
so on. 

Causes of Infant Mortality. 

1. Pre-natal 25% (abortions, still-births). 

2. Wrong feeding 30% (chiefly epidemic diarrhoea, or 

enteritis). 

3. Lung disease 18% 

(Bronchitis, pneumonia, 
consumption) 

4. Measles and whooping 

cough 7% 

5. Various 20% (Chiefly immaturity and con- 

genital defects, due partly to 
maternal physique or disease). 

" Further one must remember that the conditions which kill 
so many children, maim and disable many of the survivors, 
and these swell the ranks of those who die in early childhood 
or survive with greater or less degree of defect or disability." 



WELFARE OF INFANTS 283 

Relative number of Boys and Girls. The average births of 
boys : girls =52 : 50, but in the first two years of life there are 
so many deaths amongst boys that the result is more girls 
than boys. 

Remedies. It is possible to prevent a large amount of this 
waste of life. One authority states that " there is no insuper- 
able difficulty in reducing the total deaths in childhood to 
half their present number," and calculates that if we had 
looked after our infant life for the last forty years, we should 
now have another 1,300,000 men between eighteen and forty 
available for the Army. Two arguments are sometimes 
brought forward in favour of letting things be as they are, 
viz. (i) that nature kills off the weakest, who would be of no 
use to the nation. (2) That we should become over-populated 
if all the babies lived. Now the answer to the first is that it 
is true, but the survivors also are injured, i.e. the fit are less 
fit. The answer to the second, according to Mr. Samuel, the 
late Home Secretary, is " that there is no ground whatever 
for thinking that our population of 45,000,000 is all that these 
islands could hold. If we were to deal with the problem of 
overcrowding in a rational fashion and spread the people 
over a larger area ; if adequate systems of town-planning 
were pursued still further, and there were an extension of 
garden cities and garden suburbs, imagination could hardly 
see the number of persons whom this country could healthily 
accommodate." He also stated that a scheme of remedy 
should consist of the following parts : . 

(i) An arrangement for the local supervision of midwives. 
(2) Arrangements for an ante-natal clinic for expectant 
mothers, and a system of visitation. (3) A maternity 
hospital, or beds at an existing hospital, where complicated 
cases could receive treatment. (4) Post-natal work, arrange- 
ments for treatment of complications after birth, advice and 
treatment for infants up to school age, and visitation at homes 
of infants not at school. Mr. Samuel added that this was a 
very large and comprehensive scheme, which could only be 
gradually worked up to. It was an ideal at which to aim, and 
no authority would have completely done its duty in this 
regard until it had established every part of that scheme. 



284 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE . 

The foregoing is the business of the Local Government 
Board, but in addition the Board of Education has a part to 
play, viz. that of educating mothers and children in the care 
and management of infants and little children. In November, 
1915, the Local Government Board issued a Memorandum 
drawn up by Dr. Arthur Newsholme, their Medical Officer, 
on Health Visiting and on Maternity and Child Welfare Centres. 
In this he states that measures for improving the health of 
mothers and their children under school age mainly fall under 
two heads : Home visits and attendance at a Centre and 
that the work at the Centre can only be satisfactory if accom- 
panied by organised health-visiting. This again depends on 
full use of the information got from notification of births, so 
that early visits can be made to every house in which a birth 
has occurred, suitable advice given and the mother recom- 
mended to bring the baby to the Centre, if one exists. Usually 
about one-quarter of the mothers visited will visit the Centre, 
i.e. for the majority the only chance of giving hygienic advice 
is the home-visit. This is even more the case in rural areas, 
where Centres are impracticable. A Government scheme has 
the advantage over that of Voluntary Societies in that the 
latter nearly always consist in the establishment of a Centre 
and the home visiting of mothers and infants who attend the 
Centre, but though this is valuable, it lacks the completeness 
possible if worked in conjunction with notification of births. 
At present nearly all Sanitary Authorities of districts with 
population more than 20,000 have started a system of health 
visiting, and a considerable number of smaller authorities 
have done so. Many County Councils have organised county 
systems of health-visiting. The work should always be 
directed by the Medical Officer of Health. 

Qualifications of Health Visitors. The three most useful 
qualifications are those of (i) a trained nurse ; (2) a certified 
midwife ; (3) a sanitary inspector. 

Number of Visits. Usually a visit is paid within two or 
three days of the notification of birth, and if possible it should 
be so arranged that the health visitor can consult with the 
midwife before the latter ceases her attendance. In some 
homes no visits are needed, though there is reason to believe 



WELFARE OF INFANTS 285 

that the wives of many of the prosperous classes would 
welcome and profit by the visits, if the staff of visitors were 
large enough to make this possible. About eight visits are 
needed in the first year, but they should be continued up to 
school age. It must be remembered (i) that mothers who 
may be regarded as well educated do not necessarily under- 
stand the management of an infant and may and probably 
will welcome detailed instruction. (2) For many mothers 
advice given once only has very little value. It needs reitera- 
tion, and it must be personal. 

Work of the Centre. The same Centre should be used for 
mother and baby, because the welfare of the two cannot 
safely be considered separately. About forty per cent of 
infant deaths occur within one month of birth and are due 
largely to the mother's health before the birth. Also during 
the period of breast-feeding the child's health is directly 
dependent on that of the mother, and even after this period 
it is likely to vary with that of the mother, which necessarily 
affects the care she can give the child. Hence the work of 
the Centre must be both pre-natal and post-natal, and must 
take the form of medical advice and treatment, especially of 
minor complaints when local circumstances show the need. 
At the best Centres, each mother and child is seen at definite 
intervals, every four or six weeks, or oftener if the health 
visitor finds the baby is not getting on. After the first few 
months the children do not need to be seen so often, and after 
it is two or three years old, once a quarter or twice in six 
months is enough, until the child is entered on the school 
register. Largely, the post-natal work of the clinic resolves 
itself into weighing, and advice as to food and general hygiene. 
The ante-natal work of the Centre should aim at the removal 
of factors adverse to the health of the expectant mother and 
to seeing that the confinement takes place under favourable 
conditions. 

For older children, i.e. those over one year, further pro- 
vision is made in the following ways, in various places : 

i. Day Nurseries or Creches, for the children of mothers 
employed away from home. These owe their existence to 
philanthropy and till 1914 were not State-aided. Now they 



286 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

get grants from the Board of Education. It has been sug- 
gested that they are bad because they encourage mothers to 
work away, from home, but there are a certain number of 
women obliged to work in laundries, factories, etc., and then 
children run risks if there is no place available in which they 
can be looked after. About 150 exist at present, and more are 
wanted. They should be associated with other bodies under- 
taking infant welfare work, e.g. School for Mothers, and with 
the Medical Officer of Health and the School Medical Officer. 
The Board of Education quite realises that the best training 
of children from three to five is in a good horne^ It is the lack 
of the good home which creates the need for nurseries and 
nursery schools. 

2. Nursery Schools. These mostly deal with children from 
three to six. They have been founded by voluntary effort 
and are intended to act as a link between the home or day 
nursery and the elementary school and are usually organised 
in accordance with the recommendations of the Board of 
Education. They differ from the creche in that they aim at 
training the child, chiefly in personal habits and conduct, in 
developing brain, muscles, senses, and beginnings of self-control 
and discipline and so laying the foundations for character- 
formation. Mr. Fisher has obtained powers to found more 
of these schools for children under five and over two. 

The Board of Education considers that the essentials of a 
nursery school are light, air, sun, easy exits, ample play- 
grounds, good offices, sufficient bathing arrangements. 
The curriculum should encourage games and free-play in 
the open air, cleanly habits, kindly discipline, short, organised 
lessons, excluding formal lessons in reading, writing, etc. 

There should be plenty of rest and sleep, preferably in the 
open air. 

The Board deprecates the idea that any teacher is good 
enough, and holds that the care of these young children 
presents difficulties at least equal to those in teaching older 
children. A specially trained nurse is needed, and great 
importance should be attached to 'prompt exclusion of children 
showing signs of infectious disease, and not too much effort 
made to secure regular attendance. 



WELFARE OF INFANTS 287 

The need for such schools is fully recognised in France, 
Belgium, etc. 

Miss M. McMillan, who is a pioneer in urging the need of 
these schools and in herself establishing one in Deptford, 
says that the school must be large, accommodating one 
hundred or more children, and these should include children 
of seven who would help the little toddler by their experience, 
as in a family. The staff must also be large and the children 
should be divided into small groups of not more than six to 
each nurse -teacher. The school should also be a training 
college for nurse-teachers who should give half the day to 
their own studies. There should be a real English child's 
garden, and architects should solve the climate difficulty and 
provide for open-air classes. The child brought up in such 
a school would, according to Miss McMillan, bear no resem- 
blance to the ordinary child, for it would be clean, intelligent, 
speaking and reading English, master of the three R's, and 
so ready for an education which would be the prelude to a 
much higher secondary education than is yet dreamed of. 
Probationers in nursery schools should be offered every 
educational advantage, including voice-training, drawing, 
history, literature, and handwork as far as would provide 
successful teaching up to fourteen. 

Miss McMillan thinks that this need not mean any 
violent dislocation of infant school work, because we should 
proceed by compromise. Many existing infant schools would 
be adapted for nursery schools. 

3. Schools for Mothers. Dr. Fraser, M.O.H. for Chester- 
field, says, " Poverty with its accompanying conditions of 
overcrowding, neglect, etc., has a great influence on infant 
mortality, but given a good ' educated ' mother a child can 
be successfully reared amidst very poor surroundings, e.g. 
Dr. Eric Prit chard relates that in a recent mothercraft 
exhibition in London, the woman who gained the second 
prize was a poor mother who was successfully bringing up 
three children on an allowance of us. 6d. weekly." The 
Siege of Paris is often quoted as an example, because in spite 
of the misery and starvation the infant death-rate actually 
fell because of the increase of bi east -feeding. 



288 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

The School for Mothers is primarily educational, providing 
training and instruction for the mother in the care and 
management of little children. This is. done in three ways : 
(a) Classes, (b) home-visiting, (c) infant consultations. The 
provision of treatment if any should be only incidental. The 
work carried out by the schools necessarily overlaps the work 
of Maternity Centres to some extent, but the distinction lies 
in the main object of the school being education, whilst that 
of the Centre is health treatment. The School for Mothers 
can be comparatively simple and informal. Mothers come 
because they are made welcome, because their pride in their 
babies is stimulated, and because they grow to realise the 
value of the teaching. Hence the need of a friendly relation 
between mothers and workers. 

The Infant Consultations should be in charge of a doctor, 
though in rural districts a nurse, acting under a doctor, can 
do weighing and give advice. Home-visiting is most effective 
when in charge of a paid superintendent or nurse, with such 
paid or voluntary help as is necessary. Classes usually 
begin with " health talks " on simple everyday subjects, to 
the women attending the consultations. Sewing-classes are 
organised, and by degrees a series of classes on different 
subjects, e.g. cookery. Always the instruction should be 
simple, and as much practical demonstration and work as 
possible should be introduced. The women themselves 
should be consulted about drawing up lessons. These schools 
are specially adapted for teaching household thrift so neces- 
sary now also for explaining the advantages of medical 
inspection, which are not, as a rule, understood, and the 
importance of such things as decayed teeth, malnutrition, 
rheumatism, mouth-breathing, adenoids, defective sight, how 
to nurse measles and whooping cough, etc. Also this is one 
of the places where simple teaching in sex hygiene and the 
training of adolescent boys and girls can suitably be given 
to the mother. Much can be introduced incidentally, and 
occasionally a separate lesson can be given. In other cases 
personal talks or talks to small groups are given. One hun- 
dred and eighty-three schools for mothers received Grants 
in 1915. 



WELFARE OF INFANTS 289 

The following outline of the Chesterfield Infant Welfare 
Scheme illustrates the kind of work which can be done. 

(i) Two health visitors visit notified births. The visits of 
the nurse are now welcomed and occasionally a request for a 
visit is sent to the Health Office. (2) An Infant Welfare Sub- 
Committee has been appointed with co-opted lady members, 
who also act as managers of the ward clinics. (3) Four 
baby clinics exist, one for each of the four wards of the town. 
They are really mothercraft schools. They meet weekly and 
the health visitor weighs babies and advises on all matters 
of infant hygiene. Dried milk is sold over 200 worth in 
1916. It gives excellent results, does not tend to rickets, and 
is very safe in the hot months, because it is so much less 
liable to contamination. Also it is economical and easy to 
prepare. In some places, however, it has been found difficult 
to get mothers to mix the milk properly, even though the 
directions on the tins are simple, and so modified cow's milk 
is more used. A drawback to dried milk arises from the fact 
that there are several brands, of much the same composition, 
but the milk differs when mixed, owing to some differences 
in preparation of the powder. Also " health talks," "savings 
clubs/' " exhibition of thrift garments," " demonstrations 
in hygienic methods of feeding," etc., are given at the clinics. 
Mothers are asked to bring all children under five years 
old. Many voluntary helpers are employed at the clinic, but 
not for home-visiting, this being done by trained workers. 
(4) A Banana-Crate Cradle Centre, managed by the Women's 
Adult School, supplies these cradles fully equipped at from 
45. to 55. each. Thirty-eight were sold in 1915. The' aim is 
to stop babies sleeping in the same bed as the mother, and at 
the same time to provide a healthy form of cradle. (5) The 
baby clinics do not provide medical treatment, and hence 
a Central Treatment Centre was started in 1915. The 
Medical Officer of Health acts as doctor to this Centre, and 
attends daily in July, August and September, and twice a 
week for the rest of the year. The health visitors attend 
similarly. The equipment includes consulting.-room, kitchen, 
waiting-room and weighing and treatment room, containing 
three beds so that a child can be put to bed there for a day, 
19 



290 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

No cases, however, are kept overnight. The chief ailments 
dealt with are summer diarrhoea, digestive troubles, rickets 
and ophthalmia neonatorum. 

Importance of teaching Mothercraft to Elder Girls and 
Young Women. Method in Schools. (See Education and In- 
fant Welfare, Circular 940 of the Board of Education.) " The 
experience of Schools for Mothers shows that many women 
have had no instruction at all in infant care before their 
children were born, and that they have been dependent for 
advice on family traditions and on hints given by neighbours 
and relatives. It is certain that infant mortality and suffering 
would be much reduced if all women could have some training 
in the management of infants before or soon after marriage. 
If such apparently simple matters as the proper way to 
clothe, feed and care for a baby were known, they would be 
able to keep their babies in much better health and would be 
more ready to seek advice on the appearance of early signs of 
illness." The only time at which one has the chance of giving 
the majority of girls this instruction is during school life. The 
teaching should, of course, come as near the end of school life 
as possible, and should be carried further at Continuation 
Classes, and though the attendance at such classes has been 
hitherto optional, it is compulsory up to sixteen under the 
1918 Education Act. Hence of late years the Board of 
Education has advocated the teaching of mothercraft to 
girls in school. If it be argued that this is too early an age at 
which to begin, one must remember how much girls of twelve 
to fourteen have to do in their own homes, in the way of 
looking after the younger children in the family, and the 
methods taught in school may be applied at home immediately, 
and, further, may teach the parents to do better. In this 
connection, one wants to enlist the sympathy of the mothers 
as much as possible, for if they only jeer at the school teaching, 
they undermine its effect on the children. It is a good idea 
for the teacher to have occasional " Mothers' Meetings " and 
discuss the lessons given to the girls, for one can teach the 
mothers a good deal thus. Also, one may get the school 
Medical Officer or school nurse to do this. Another argument 
in favour of the teaching is the interest which the girls take 



WELFARE OF INFANTS 291 

in it. The lessons are always popular, probably because (i) 
they appeal to the girl's natural instinct for motherhood. 
(2) They are within the scope of her practical experience and 
home life. 

Matter. One should aim at training the girls practically 
in details of the ordinary nursery care of a baby, i.e. how to 
dress, wash and feed it, how to train it early to clean habits, 
its special need for warmth, air, sun, cleanliness. The danger 
of unsuitable food or methods of feeding, of dirt in any form, 
of insufficient or too many clothes, of cold or chill, of lack of 
or disturbed sleep, of lack of air and exercise, etc., should be 
clearly pointed out. The girls should also learn the signs of 
indigestion (e.g. sickness, diarrhoea, constipation, wasting), 
how to make a cradle, why a comforter is bad, etc. 

Method must be as practical as possible. Some theory 
must be taught, and it is best for the teacher to explain this 
and let the girls take notes, rather than rely on a " reader " 
or textbook. The greater part of every lesson, however, 
should be practical. And here arises the question as to what 
to practise on baby or doll ? Now, the real baby has a 
good many superiorities to the doll, e.g. it is much more 
difficult to handle, being infinitely more slippery for instance ; 
it is more interesting to make up a " bottle " f or a baby who 
will drink it than for a qloll which won't. On the other hand, 
one cannot give a baby more than one bottle at a time, and 
one cannot dress and undress and wash it an unlimited 
number of times as one can a doll ; also mothers are chary 
of loaning out babies. Hence one must mostly do with a 
doll, but a baby can be got in occasionally. The doll must 
be a real " model " of a baby (e.g. Arnold's IDS. 6d.). 

Clothes. These should be made in school by the girls in 
needlework lessons, and should be hygienic and as simple and 
cheap as possible. 

Apparatus. The cradle should be also made in school from 
a banana crate (is.) with mattress and pillow of chaff, and 
blankets cut from old. ones. Other articles can mostly be 
brought by the girls from home, on the day of the lesson, 
e.g. towel-horse, bath, towels, brush. The lessons should be 
repeated till every girl has actually washed, dressed and made 



292 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

up feeds for the baby. In this connection it is interesting to 
find that girls who are dull and backward in ordinary work 
will often respond to this baby- work quite as well as the rest, 
and they often improve in other work as a result of the 
stimulus that success brings. . 

Qualifications of Teacher. Usually it is best if this work is 
done by a member of the regular staff and not by an outsider, 
because a member of the staff knows the girls in a way that no 
outsider can, e.g. she knows parents, home circumstances, 
etc. Also she can link up the work with the rest of the school 
curriculum. These points are probably of even more im- 
portance than knowledge of technicalities, in which the 
visiting teacher may be her superior. Again, it is difficult 
with a visiting teacher to get the lessons repeated often enough 
to give every girl a chance of practising what is taught. 

Place of the lesson. If the teaching is to be given to all Ihe 
girls and if the lessons are to be frequent, practically the 
school is the only possible place for them. The accommodation 
at cookery and laundry and housewifery centres is usually 
insufficient for this in addition to the ordinary domestic 
classes held there. It is, however, quite good to supplement 
the work in school with more at a day nursery (creche), but 
if it is done exclusively at the latter, all the objections already 
mentioned come in, i.e. it drops out of the hands of the 
ordinary staff and the creche staff is often too busy to teach 
girls sufficiently. The creche, however, gives the girls the 
chance of handling the real article, and so it would be a good 
thing to let a course at the creche follow the teaching in 
school. In a number of nurseries (e.g. Acton, Hanwell, Leeds, 
Plymouth), classes in infant management are held for girls 
from neighbouring schools and the teaching seems to yield 
good results. For this to be done, the nursery needs adequate 
accommodation and equipment, and the matron should be able 
to give the teaching. Schools for mothers can be utilised to a 
less extent, as at Swansea and a few other places. Another 
possibility would be to provide a day nursery at some of the 
Domestic Training Centres, and this would have advantages 
over the separate creche in that it would link up the baby- 
work with the cookery, housewifery and laundry work. 



WELFARE OF INFANTS 293 

Continuation Classes. It is exceedingly desirable that these 
should exist, because the girls in the elementary schools are 
too young to grasp fully the meaning and responsibilities of 
motherhood, and the teaching in the school must therefore 
only be very simple and incomplete. Again, girls often go 
straight from school to factory, and straight from factory to 
marriage, and so some years elapse before they get a chance 
of practising what the school taught, and in the meantime they 
forget some, at least, of it. Continuation classes might well 
be held in connection with day nurseries, schools for mothers, 
etc., and in them one can take the subject more fully and 
completely, e.g. including common illnesses and care of the 
mother's health during pregnancy and whilst she is feeding 
the child, and the effects on the child of her health. 

A Course of Hygiene (suggested by Dr. Janet Campbell, in 
Circular 758, Board of Education, 1910). 

(a) Girls between seven and twelve, (i) Personal hygiene, 
including simple lessons in neatness, cleanliness, attention to 
hair, nails, teeth, etc. (ii) Fresh air and ventilation : Need of 
fresh air ; ventilation of room ; need for open windows at 
night as well as day ; effects of stuffy rooms ; value of sun. 
(iii) Warmth. Why people, and little children especially, 
must be kept warm and free from chills. How to lay a fire ; 
the fire as a ventilator ; fire-guards ; clothing, (iv) Clean- 
liness. Necessity to health ; clean body, food (especially 
water and milk), clothes, home, (v) Eating and drinking. 
Why food is necessary ; what kinds are good and necessary 
and what unsuitable ; value of milk, specially for babies and 
children. Table manners. How to lay a table, (vi) Clothing. 
Best kind to wear ; best materials for underclothes ; danger of 
flannelette ; how to keep clothes clean and mended, (vii) 
Sleep. Why needful. Why little children should go to bed 
early ; how to make a bed, air it and keep it clean. 

(b) Girls of twelve to fourteen. A continuation of the above 
with more completeness. Also (i) housekeeping. How to 
spend the weekly income to the best advantage ; marketing ; 
how to make the home comfortable, pretty ; thrift, etc. 
(ii) Temperance based on the Board's Syllabus, (iii) Simple 
home nursing, e.g. how to make a sick person comfortable, 



294 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

how to attend to simple ailments and injuries, how to make a 
poultice ; infection and disinfection, (iv) Personal hygiene 
and the elements of health of a community including sanitation 
of the home, removal of refuse, personal health, prevention 
of tuberculosis, (v) Care of infants and young children. 

In connection with b (iv) in the above course, one must 
remember that the large number of deaths from diarrhoea 
and enteritis are partly due to a group of factors which can 
be dealt with by the Sanitary Authority. For example, in 
towns where an out-of-date conservancy system of sanitation 
or a pail-closet system is used, infant mortality is excessive, 
and, conversely, the lowest death-rate from diarrhoea occurs 
where the water-carriage system is used. In several towns 
the conversion of a conservancy to a water-carriage system 
has greatly reduced deaths from diarrhoea. The importance 
of municipal cleanliness in street -washing, supply of baths, 
frequent emptying of ash-bins and removal of stable manure 
(in which flies breed), etc., is enormous. Inadequate water- 
supply, choked closets and drains, filthy courts and alleys, 
absence of proper facilities for storing food, etc., all mean 
higher death-rate of babies, since all mean greater liability 
to contamination of food, especially milk, by germs, often 
fly-borne. 



CAHPTER xxix 
LEGISLATION AFFECTING SCHOOL CHILDREN 

The Factory Act, Children Act, Education (Provision of Meals) Acts, 
Medical Inspection and Treatment, Blind and Deaf Act, Defective 
and Epileptic Acts, Mental Deficiency Act (1913), Employment of 
Children Act, Education (Choice of Employment) Act Need for 
careful supervision of juvenile employment out of school hours. 

i. The Factory Act. Owing to the new Education Bill, 
which was read for the third time on 16 July, 1918, so prac- 
tically becoming law, the need to consider the Factory Act 
here is considerably lessened, since the Education Bill makes 
" half time " employment impossible. Until now, it has been 
possible for a child to enter a factory as a half-time worker at 
twelve years old and to continue coming to school either for 
half of each day or for alternate weeks, till the age of thirteen 
or fourteen, according as he obtained a certificate of proficiency 
in the three R's at thirteen or not. About 35,000 children 
are thus employed. Under the new Bill, however, every 
child must stay at school till fourteen and from fourteen to 
sixteen must put in 280 hours' instruction per annum in a 
continuation school. Seven years from the day on which the 
Bill comes into force, the age-limit will become eighteen 
instead of sixteen and the number of hours 320 instead of 280. 

The half-time system was practically restricted to the 
cotton factories of Lancashire, and it was from this quarter 
that the opposition to the change came. The old regulations 
for half-timers are already beginning to have a slightly 
antiquated air, but it may be of interest to very briefly 
recapitulate the more important of them. 

Fitness for Employment, (i) No child less than twelve 
years old can be employed. (2) No child must be employed 
for more than seven, or if the certifying surgeon lives more than 

295 



296 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

three miles from the factory, for more than thirteen days 
without the employer getting a certificate of fitness. (3) A 
certificate of fitness is granted by the certifying surgeon for the 
district, who must examine the child at the factory (unless 
less than five are employed) and be satisfied by the production 
of the birth-certificate, or other evidence as to the child's age, 
and must see that the child is not incapable owing to disease 
or infirmity. The certificate may be qualified by conditions 
as to the work the child is fit for. The surgeon can examine 
any process in which the child is to be employed, and can 
demand that any child who is employed, but is unfit, shall 
stop work until re-examined and found fit. 

This certificate is required by any worker under sixteen, 
the idea being to so supervise the health of adolescents up 
to this age, but in practice it often fails, because the factory 
surgeon does his work perfunctorily. He is usually a private 
doctor and he is paid by the employer and not by the State. 
It would be much better if he were on the staff of the school 
doctor, who already knows the medical history of the child. 

Education of Children. The parent must send the child to 
school for either half of each day, if the child be employed in 
the morning or afternoon, or on alternate days, if employed on 
alternate days. The child must not attend school on Saturdays 
or in school or factory holidays. If the child has not made all 
his school-attendances in a week, he must not be employed 
in the next week till he has made up the deficit of school- 
attendances. The employer must get a certificate of school- 
attendances weekly from the teacher. At thirteen, if the 
child has a certificate of proficiency in reading, writing and 
arithmetic, he can be considered a " young person." 

Dangerous and Unhealthy Industries. No child can be 
employed in wet-spinning unless sufficient means exist to 
prevent wetting and escape of steam into the room. No 
child can be employed where mirrors are silvered by the 
mercury process, or where white lead is made, or where glass 
is melted or annealed, or where bricks or tiles are made or 
finished (except ornamental tiles), 'or where salt is made or 
finished, or where dry gi hiding in the metal trade is carried 
on, or where lucifer matches are dipped. 



LEGISLATION AFFECTING CHILDREN 297 

No child may have a meal or stay during meal-times in 
the following factories and workshops : (a) The part of a 
glass works where materials are mixed, or flint glass is ground, 
cut or polished, (b) Where lucifer matches are made (except 
cutting the wood), (c) In the dipper's house, drying-room 
or china scouring-room in earthenware works. 

Legal Proceedings . If a child be employed contrary to the 
provisions of this Act, the parent is liable to a fine of not more 
than i for each offence. If the parent does not send the 
child to school, he is liable to i fine for each offence. 

2. Children Act, 1908. This Act deals with (A) The pro- 
tection of Infant Life ; (B) Prevention of Cruelty to Children ; 
(C) Juvenile Smoking ; (D) Reformatory and Industrial 
Schools ; (E) Juvenile Offenders ; (F) Penalties on giving 
intoxicating liquor to Children and for admitting them to 
public-houses ; (G) Cleansing of Verminous Children. 

(A) The section on Infant Life is outside the scope of our 
work. 

(B) That on Prevention of Cruelty to Children states that 
any person who wilfully neglects a child in a way likely to 
cause unnecessary suffering or injury to health (a) is liable 
to a fine of not more than 100, or in default, or in addition, 
imprisonment with or without hard labour for not more than 
two years, (b) On summary conviction a person is liable to 
a fine of not more than 25, or in default, or in addition, 
imprisonment with or without hard labour for a term of not 
more than six months, (c) Failure to provide adequate food, 
clothes, medical aid or lodgng, or if unable to, to take steps 
to get the same as poor-relief, counts as neglect, (d) The 
court may, if it think it necessary, take a child from the 
custody of a parent convicted of offence against the child 
and commit it to the care of a relative, or other fit person, 
till sixteen years old, or for a shorter period, and may make 
the parent pay for its maintenance up to i weekly. 

(C) The section on Juvenile Smoking forbids the sale of 
cigarettes or cigarette papers to persons apparently under 
sixteen, empowers police and park-keepers to seize cigarettes 
in possession of a person apparently under sixteen if smoking 
in the street or a public place. This also applies to tobacco 



298 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

other than cigarettes, except that one may sell it to a person 
under sixteen, if one does not know and has no reason to 
believe that it is for his own use. 

(D) Reformatory and Industrial Schools. A Reformatory 
School means one for industrial training of young offenders, 
in which they are also fed, clothed and lodged. An Industrial 
School means the same, but the children need not be 
" offenders," and they can be " boarded out," with the 
consent of the Secretary of State. 

Method of sending children to such Schools. If the offender 
is between twelve and sixteen and is convicted of offence 
which in the case of an adult would be punished with im- 
prisonment, the court may, in addition to or instead of other 
punishment, send him to a Reformatory. A child can be 
sent to an Industrial School, if under fourteen and begging or 
wandering without visible means of support, or destitute 
while parents are in prison, or if parents are drunken or 
criminal, or if the child be in company with a reported thief 
or prostitute (except the mother), or if a child apparently 
twelve or thirteen be convicted for the first time of an offence 
punishable in the case of an adult with imprisonment, and if 
the Court be sure that he will not exercise an evil influence on 
other children, or if the parents prove that they are unable 
to control the child and want him sent to the school. 

Persons who may take proceedings to get a child into an 
Industrial School include police, Local Education Authority 
and parents. Choice of School. A child can be sent to any 
certified school whose managers consent. 

Period of detention, (a) Reformatory three to five years, to 
age of nineteen, (b) Industrial. Any time, up to sixteen. 
Supervision after leaving, (a) Reformatory. If let out before 
nineteen a scholar remains under the supervision of the 
managers of the school till nineteen, (b) Industrial. A scholar 
remains under the supervision of the managers of the school 
up to eighteen. 

Expenses of certified schools are met partly by Government 
grants, partly by the Local Education Authority of the 
district from which the children come, and partly by parents, 
if able to pay. 



LEGISLATION AFFECTING CHILDREN 299 

Day industrial schools may be certified if the Secretary of 
State be satisfied that they are needed. 

(F) Penalty on giving intoxicants to Children. Anyone 
who gives alcohol to children under five, except on doctor's 
orders, or in case of illness, is liable to a fine of not more than 
3. No child is ah 1 owed in bars. Offenders are liable to a fine 
up to 2 for the first offence and 5 for subsequent offences. 

(G) Cleansing of Verminous Children. A Local Education 
Authority may direct their Medical Officer, or any person 
to whom he gives authority, to examine any child in any 
elementary school, and if it is verminous or filthy the authority 
may give written notice to the parent to cleanse the child in 
twenty-four hours. If the parent fails to do so, the Medical 
Officer or someone to whom he gives authority may remove 
the child from school and have it cleansed in suitable premises. 
If the Sanitary Authority has suitable premises for cleansing, 
it must let the Education Authority use them, on payment. 
If the parent again lets the child get verminous he is liable 
to a fine up to los. The Education Authority must give the 
parent written directions for cleansing. The examination and 
cleansing of girls may only, be done by the doctor or by a 
woman. 

3. Education (Provision of Meals) Act, 1906. Empowers 
a Local Education Authority to take steps to provide meals 
for children and to associate themselves with any committee 
on which the Authority is represented which will undertake 
to provide food for children, and to aid that committee by 
furnishing land, buildings, furniture and such officers and 
servants as may be needed for organisation, preparation and 
service of meals, but the Authority must not incur expense 
in buying food except under the two following conditions : 

(1) The parent is unable to pay and not by his own fault. 
Otherwise the parent is to be charged for the meal and the 
Education Authority can recover the amount as a civil debt. 

(2) If a child be unable to profit by education because of lack 
of food, and no funds except public ones be available, the 
Education Authority may apply to the Board to spend money 
out of the rates on food, to the extent of id. in i of rates. 
The Act stipulates that no teacher shall be required as part 



300 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

of his duties to supervise or assist, or to abstain from super- 
vising or assisting in the provision of meals or the collection 
of the cost thereof. The Provision of Meals Act of 1914, 
passed a few days after war began, repealed this halfpenny 
limit, and legalised the provision of meals during holidays 
and other days when the school is shut. In June, 1914, the 
Provision of Meals Regulations providing grants in aid were 
issued and admit of fifty per cent of the net cost being supplied. 
In distributing the grant the Board takes into consideration 
{a) the extent to which the work is co-ordinated with the 
school medical service, (b) Care in selecting the children. 
(c) Sufficiency and suitability of dietary, (d) The extent to 
which attention is given to the educational aspect of the work. 
(e) Suitability of accommodation and equipment and efficiency 
of service and supervision of meals. (/) Completeness of 
arrangements for ascertaining the effect of meals on the 
physical and mental state of the children. 

4. Medical Inspection and Treatment was introduced in 
1907 by the Education Act (Administrative Provisions), 
which stated that a Local Education Authority must provide 
for medical inspection immediately before, or at time of, 
or as soon after entrance to school as possible, and on such 
other occasions as the Board of Education direct. Also that 
it may make such arrangements as the Board of Education 
sanction for attending to health and physical condition of 
the children. However, the new Education Bill (1918) makes 
treatment compulsory. 

5. Elementary Education (Blind and Deaf Children) 
Act, 1893. This Act stipulates (i) that a parent must see that 
the child gets elementary education. (2) Every school Author- 
ity must enable blind and deaf children in their district to get 
elementary education in a certified school and must there- 
fore establish such a school or contribute to one, and if 
necessary arrange for boarding out children in a home near 
the school. (3) Parents are liable to contribute to the support 
of the children. (4) Education is compulsory till sixteen. 

6. Elementary Education (Defective and Epileptic 
Children) Act, 1899, states (i) that the school Authority 
may with the approval of the Education Department make 



LEGISLATION AFFECTING CHILDREN 301 

such arrangements as they think fit for ascertaining (a) what 
children in their district, not imbecile and not merely dull and 
backward, are defective, i.e. by reason of mental or physical 
defect are incapable of receiving proper benefit from instruc- 
tion in the ordinary elementary school, but are not incapable 
of benefit from instruction in special classes or schools. 
(b) What children are epileptic, and unfit by reason of severe 
epilepsy, to attend the ordinary elementary school. (2) The 
school Authority in making their arrangements shall provide 
facilities for parents to present such children to the school 
Authority to be examined, though they may not have been 
required to do so. (3) A doctor's certificate is needed to say 
that the child is defective or epileptic. (4) The Education 
Authority may provide for defective children by any of the 
following means : (a) Special classes in public elementary 
school, (b) Boarding out children near a special class or 
school, (c) Establishing a school for defectives. (5) The 
Education Authority may provide for epileptics by establish- 
ing special schools. (6) The school Authority may contribute 
to the support of schools in other districts attended by 
children whose permanent homes are in their district . (7) The 
parent must send the child, if more than seven years old, to 
the special class or school, if within reach. In the case of an 
epileptic child more than seven years old, the school Authority 
may apply to a Court of Law for an order requiring the child 
to be sent to a school for epileptics. (8) Parents are liable to 
contribute to the cost of maintenance. (9) Education is 
compulsory till sixteen. 

In connection with the above Act, we must consider two 

later ones : 

(i) The Elementary Education (Defective and Epileptic 
Children) Act, 1914. This makes it the duty of the Local 
Education Authority to provide for children more than seven 
years old who are mentally defective. They need not provide 
board and lodging unless suitable provision cannot be made 
in any other way. The Local Authority shall try to ascertain 
and as far as possible give effect to parents' wishes, but. if 
satisfied that the parent is not making suitable provision for 
{he education of a defective or epileptic child, it can require 



302 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

him to send the child to a certified school or class. The 
Authority cannot send a child to a class or school out of reach 
of the child's residence, or to a boarding school, without the 
written consent of the parent, unless it can be proved that 
consent is unreasonably withheld. The 1918 Education Bill, 
just passed by the Commons, extends the benefits of this 
Act to physically defective children. 

(2) The Mental Deficiency Act of 1913, which compels the 
Local Education Authority to notify all defective children 
more than seven years old (a) who are incapable of receiving 
benefit in a special school or class, or whom the Board of 
Education certify need supervision or guardianship, and (b] 
who at or before sixteen are about to be withdrawn or dis- 
charged from a special school or class and whom the Local 
Education Authority consider should be sent to an Institution 
or put under guardianship. Further, if a person be sent to an 
Institution for Defectives he can be detained for life, if it be 
considered necessary. Also he, or the persons liable to main- 
tain him, may be called on to contribute to the cost of his 
support. Duties of Local Authorities. The County or Borough 
Council is the Local Authority for this Act. It must ascertain 
how many defectives need to be dealt with and must provide 
supervision for them. The Local Education Authority, 
however, must, as above stated, ascertain the number of 
defective children (seven to sixteen), how many are 
incapable of benefit in special classes of school, and must 
notify names and addresses to the Local Authority. 

7. Employment of Children. All employed children come 
under the protection of Section III of the Employment of 
Children Act, 1903. This Act empowers any Local Authority 
to make by-laws prescribing (i) the age below which employ- 
ment is illegal. (2) The hours between which employ- 
ment is illegal. (3) Occupation in which employment is 
illegal. It can also regulate street -trading under sixteen. 
Section III. (a) A child shall not be employed between 
9 p.m. and 6 a.m., but the Local Authority may vary these 
hours either generally or for specified occupations. Clause 13 
of the new Education Bill introduces an amendment to 
this forbidding the employment of any child under the age 



LEGISLATION AFFECTING CHILDREN 303 

of twelve, and stating that children over twelve must not 
be employed on school days before the close of school hours, 
nor on any day before 6 a.m. or after 8 p.m. A Local Authority 
may make a by-law allowing parents to employ their children 
in certain specified occupations and under specified conditions, 
but even here the employment may not last for more than 
one hour before 9 a.m. on a school day, and a child so em- 
ployed may not be employed for more than one hour in the 
afternoon, (b) A child under eleven shall not be employed 
in street trading, (c) No child employed half-time under the 
Factory Act shall be employed in any other occupation. 
(d) A child shall not be employed to lift or carry or move any- 
thing so heavy as to be likely to injure him or her. (e) A 
child shall not be employed in any work likely to be injurious 
to life, limb, health or education, regard being had to his 
physical condition. N.B. Here " child " means under 
fourteen. 

Children have hitherto been allowed to leave school before 
fourteen, under certain conditions set out by the Elementary 
Education Act, 1893 (School Attendance) and the Amendment 
Act, 1899, for Agricultural Employment ; and for other 
forms of employment, if they satisfy the conditions of the 
local by-laws. During the war the restrictions were relaxed 
a good deal in agricultural districts, and a good many children 
availed themselves of the chance of leaving school early under 
the by-laws, who in ordinary times would stay longer ; e.g. 
from September, 1914, to January, 1915, 1,538 boys and 53 
girls between eleven and fourteen, who were normally liable 
to attend school were excused : 1,388 boys and 25 girls for 
agriculture, 30 boys and I girl for factories ; 120 boys and 
27 girls for other employments. The Board of Education 
considers that some Local Education Authorities granted 
exemptions too easily and without careful enough ascertain- 
ment that the conditions prescribed by Government were 
fulfilled. The extent of juvenile employment increased as 
the war proceeded; thus in 1916 about 45,000 children in 
excess of the normal number left school for employment, 
excluding half-timers and those specially exempted. The 
Jast group contained 15,000 special exemptions for agriculture 



304 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

alone, on 3ist May, 1916. The Board states that the early 
withdrawal from school arrests education just when the 
child is beginning to assimilate and consolidate the instruction 
received and puts him under strain which is harmful 
physically. 

8. The Education (Choice of Employment) Act, 1910, 
was passed to enable a Local Education Authority to give boys 
and girls advice, information and assistance with respect to 
choice of employment. It states that a Local Education 
Authority can arrange to give boys and girls under seventeen 
assistance with regard to choice of suitable employment by 
means of collection and communication of information and 
the furnishing of advice. The new Education Bill extends 
the age to eighteen. The school doctor should supply the 
Juvenile Employment Department of the Education Com- 
mittee with any information he has about children who 
need special consideration in the choice of work, owing to 
physical defect. 

Employment of Children out of School hours. There is 
great need for supervision of the conditions of such employ- 
ment. Excessive hours of labour are found to be often 
associated with conditions of mental and physical strain, 
and it is obvious that children so employed are incapable of 
attention during school hours. Even in normal times the 
evil is serious, and it has been increased by the war. The 
Board of Education urges the Authorities concerned to attend 
to the matter and points out six chief evils needing remedy : 

(1) Interference with sleep, school and regularity of meals. 

(2) The employment is often unfavourable to health and 
growth. (3) The employment is generally unskilled and un- 
educative, and the boy tends to become an untrained and 
unemployable man. (4) The frequency with which the boy 
changes his job tends to instability. (5) The work often 
brings the boy into undesirable surroundings. (6) Insufficient 
medical inspection and supervision of children. All such 
children might be examined as "specials," for the discovery 
of defects would often reveal harmful conditions of employ- 
ment and would probably result in many cases in the rescue 
of the children from serious harm. 



LEGISLATION AFFECTING CHILDREN 305 

The war has not caused much extra employment of girls 
for wages, but it has greatly increased the domestic work done 
by schoolgirls, owing to the mothers going out to work, and 
this is much more marked in the homes of the comparatively 
better-off class than in those of the very poor, the reason 
being that the maintenance allowance in the latter case, when 
the father is in the Army, leaves the family better off than 
before, but in the better home it is not enough to support 
the family at its pre-war level. 



CHAPTER XXX 
EUGENICS 

EUGENICS is defined in the minutes of the Univeisity of 
London as " The study of agencies under Social Control that 
may improve or impair the racial qualities of future genera- 
tions, either physically or mentally." 

The word " eugenic " is comparatively new, having been 
invented only in 1884 by Sir Francis Galton, who first used 
it in his book on Human Faculty. There he explains that it 
is derived from the Greek " eugenes," which means " good in 
stock ; hereditarily endowed with noble qualities," and he 
goes on to say that " we greatly want a brief word to express 
the science of improving stock, w r hich is by no means confined 
to questions of judicious mating, but which, especially in the 
case of man, takes cognisance of all influences that tend, in 
however remote a degree, to give to the more suitable races 
or strains of blood a better chance Of prevailing speedily over 
the less suitable than they otherwise would have had." The 
word eugenics would sufficiently express this idea. 

Returning to Gait on 's definition of eugenics as " the study 
of agencies under Social Control that may affect racial 
qualities," one naturally asks next, What, are the agencies 
that affect racial qualities, and which of them can be con- 
sidered as " under social control " ? And the answer to the 
first of these questions is that the agencies fall into two large 
groups. The first group contains al] the agencies depending 
on Inheritance or Heredity ; i.e. the characters and tendencies, 
whether of body or mind, that are handed down from parent 
to child. The second group contains all the agencies depending 
on Environment ; i.e. the surroundings in which the race 
exists, including such things as food, climate, education, the 
presence of disease -germs, etc. The Report of the National 

306 



EUGENICS 307 

Birth-Rate Commission, 1917, says, " Human life, in itself, 
under healthy conditions, may be assumed to be desirable 
and valuable. The degree of its value will depend on its 
inborn character and its environment." 

Whether sixty years ago one could have expected people to 
agree to this classification is doubtful, for Galton, speaking 
of 1859, tne y ear in which Darwin published his Origin of 
Species, says that the current views on heredity were so vague 
and contradictory that it was very difficult to state them. 
Generally, most authors agreed that all bodily and some 
mental qualities were inherited by the lower animals, but they 
refused to believe the same of man, and altogether opinion 
was very vague, and the subject of human heredity was never 
squarely faced. Even the word " heredity " was considered 
fanciful and unusual, and Galton was chaffed by a learned 
friend for adopting it from the French. 

However, misty as may have been the ideas of that day on 
the subject of heredity, still the idea was there, embodied in 
proverbs such as " Like begets like " ; " Like father, like 
son," and so on. To-day it may be said that the subject of 
human heredity has been and is beirg squarely faced, even 
though its problems are still only beginning to be solved. 
And that facing of the problems has been largely brought 
about by two things : first, the advances made in the science 
of biology and initiated by Darwin's work, and second, a 
fairly widespread feeling amongst the people who think at 
all about such matters that things were not going quite as 
well as they might in matters of social reform, and a conse- 
quent attempt to reconsider the faiths on which our social 
legislation and philanthropy were based. 

That attempt led some people to the conclusion that there 
were two factors to be reckoned with in all schemes for better- 
ing social conditions, viz. the factois of seed and soil, and that 
hitherto we had denied the existence of one of these, in deed 
if not in word, and that the rather unsatisfying results of the 
great expenditure of time, energy and money which has been 
going on ever since the ideas of social reform began to be 
put into practice in England, i.e. for about the last hundred 
years, might be due to this ignoring of one of the two factors, 



308 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

viz. the seed, and to the concentration of all thought, effort 
and money on the other, viz. the soil. There is no doubt 
that our modern social legislation and philanthropy have, up 
to a few years ago, entirely concentrated on the improve- 
ment of the soil, or environment, and that we have assumed 
that thus we should benefit not only the individual but also 
the race. We have further assumed that this was the only 
channel along which help could come to the race. 

As Mr. Havelock Ellis puts it, our reforms have proceeded 
in four stages : 

1. The effort to clear away the gross filth of our cities, to 
improve dwellings, to introduce sanitation and to combat 
disease. 

2. The attempt to regulate the conditions of work, as 
exemplified in factory legislation. 

3. The still more fundamental step of taking the children 
in hand, providing national education, medical inspection 
and treatment, free meals, etc., this stage culminating in the 
last few years in the development of Infant Care, Schools for 
Mothers, Infant Consultations, Maternity Centres, etc., i.e. 
the public supervision of the child from the moment of its 
birth onwards to adolescence. 

4. The most fundamental step of all, i.e. the attempt, 
which is just beginning, to provide the conditions of healthy 
life for the child even before birth, by looking after the mother's 
health for some months before the child is born. 

. Now, these improvements in environment have absolutely 
transformed the conditions of life. We should be horrified 
to-day if we found anyone living under the conditions which 
were usual during the first half of the nineteenth century. 
As an example of those conditions take the report on the 
condition of Bethnal Green, published in 1848 by Hector 
Gavin, under the title Sanitary Rambles. Bethnal Green, 
owing to industrial expansion, had just become a town. There 
were thirty-three miles of street in it and a hundred miles 
of by-ways, not including courts and alleys, but only a few 
miles had sewers. Dust -bins were unknown, as were all other 
forms of sanitary convenience ; slops and all other refuse 
were thrown out of windows or doors into the street, where 



EUGENICS 309 

the solid parts of the refuse collected in mountainous, evil- 
smelling heaps, which was not surprising since the scavengers 
were " thirteen decrepit old men," and it took them ninety 
days to get once round the parish. Hence disease and 
epidemics were rife. And this was typical of many places. 
The people were reckless, improvident, intemperate, multi- 
plying as carelessly as rabbits, though babies died at such a 
rate that the increase of population was not excessive. Under 
these conditions the race remained vigorous, and English 
workmen were noted for what was called their "savage 
industry," surpassing that of any other people. Even in 
France and Germany it paid to import English navvies and 
pay them double wages, on account of their superior energy. 

As a second example illustrating how greatly we have 
improved environment, take the death-rate of London. Two 
hundred years ago it was 8 per cent. In 1909 it was 1-5 
per cent. 

As a result of this improved environment one might expect 
considerable racial improvement, but there seems no reason 
for believing that the quality of the population is any better 
than when most of it lived in filth, drank to an extent un- 
known nowadays, and was decimated by disease. For 
instance, one test of the success of social reform is the 
amount of pauperism existing. In 1909, the Royal Commis- 
sioners on the Poor Law wrote as follows : " Notwithstanding 
our assumed moral and material progress, and notwith- 
standing the enormous annual expenditure amounting to 
nearly 60,000,000 a year on poor-relief, education and public 
health, we still have a vast army of persons quartered upon 
us unable to support themselves ; an army which in numbers 
has really shown signs of increase rather than decrease. To 
what is the retrogression due ? It cannot be attributed to 
lack of expenditure. Is this costly and elaborate machinery 
we have established defective, and if so, where does it fail to 
accomplish its end ? Is the material upon which this 
machinery operates becoming less amenable to the remedies 
applied ? . . . 

The statistical review of the expenditure incurred and of 
the results attained by it prove that something in our social 



310 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

organisation is seriously wrong, and that, whatever may be 
the evils, they are not of such a nature as can be improved or 
removed by the mere signing of cheques or the outpouring of 
public funds." 

Again, in reporting on able-bodied pauperism, the Com- 
mission says, " The consideration of these statistics leads to 
the conclusion that it is in regard to the able-bodied that 
least progress has been made. Indeed it would appear that 
there has recently been a considerable retrogression in this 
branch of the Poor Law. Either the urban population is 
becoming less fitted for maintaining their independence, or 
the facility with which relief may be obtained and the im- 
munity from labour which it confers are enticing a larger 
number of persons to avail themselves of the Poor Law 
relief." 

The Commissioners also stated that in a recent year, between 
30,000 and 40,000 able-bodied men in health received out- 
door relief without ary task or work. 

These remarks apply to official pauperdom only, but in 
addition to the paupers relieved by the State there is a large 
class supported unofficially by private philanthropy and 
charity, and this number is impossible to calculate, but if one 
remembers the great increase of hospitals, homes, charitable 
societies, etc., it is almost certain that there has been an 
increase in the proportion of people who cannot or will not 
support themselves. 

The causes of pauperism are various, including economic 
conditions, ill-health, lack of " grit," mental and moral 
defect. With regard to these causes, it is, I believe, a fact 
that economic conditions such as lack of employment, wages 
and cost of living have not become woise in recent years 
(apart, of course, from war conditions), but that they are 
better on the whole than thirty years ago, and therefore the 
increase of pauperism is probably not chiefly due to economic 
conditions. Dr. Tredgold, the medical expert to the Royal 
Commission on the Feeble-Minded, ascribes it to either 
physical or mental incapacity. He considers that the number 
of the physically unfit is greater than it was, owing to the 
increased preservation of delicate and weak individuals, but 



EUGENICS 311 

that the real underlying cause of the great bulk of pauperism 
and of its increase in recent years is mental inadequacy, a 
want of grit and independence. He thinks that environment 
has often fostered this deterioration by providing indis- 
criminate help, by creating artificial wants, and by failing to 
teach thrift and prudence, but that the root causers inherent 
weakness of will and character, leading the individual to 
always take the line of least resistance. 

This brings us to another set of facts illustrating the dis- 
appointing results of our improvement of environment fhe 
facts about the feeble-minded. In 1908, the Royal Com- 
mission on the Feeble-Minded estimated that there were 
150,000 notably defective persons in England and Wales, 
exclusive of certified lunatics in asylums, and that nearly 
half of the whole number of feeble-minded were unprovided 
for and therefore a danger to society. Until lately, the 
number of the feeble-minded was not known. The number 
of the insane, or lunatics, as shown by the reports of the 
Lunacy Commissioners, has greatly increased of late, but 
this may be due to the greater tendency to send the insane 
to asylums, and to better methods of keeping them alive. 
Hence much of the increase of insanity is probably not real, 
but only apparent, but it does seem as if there has been no 
decrease, and the existing quantity is disappointingly large. 

There is a difference between insanity and feeble-minded- 
ness which is worth remembering, namely that insanity is 
sometimes due to disease or special strain, though most of the 
insane have an inborn nervous weakness ; still insanity may 
be temporary and curable. Feeble-mindedness, on the other 
hand, is permanent and incurable, and in a very large percent- 
age of cases it is inherited from the parents. Twenty-five out 
of thirty-five witnesses who gave evidence before the Royal 
Commission attached supreme importance to this fact ; e.g. 
Sir Clifford All butt said, " I regard feeble-mindedness as 
hereditary. . . . Feeble-minded persons are prolific ; the 
thing can only be bred out," and an instance was given of a 
feeble-minded woman who had four feeble-minded daughters, 
all of whom had feeble-minded children, and at the time of 
the investigation, the descendants of the original woman 



312 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

included more than one hundred feeble-minded people. 
The Commissioners, in summing up, emphasised three points : 

1. The hereditary nature of feeble-mindedness. 

2. That prevention of the mentally defective from becoming 
parents would tend largely to diminish their numbers. 

3. That the mentally defective should not live at large, but 
in institutions. 

In connection with this, it is, of course, notorious that many 
ieeble-minded men and women drift into workhouses before 
reaching the age of thirty, and that in the numerous maternity 
cases amongst the women a very large number of the births 
are illegitimate. 

, There is also a considerable connection between prostitution 
and feeble-mindedness ; e.g. out of 15,000 women who 
passed through various Homes for Prostitutes in England, 
sixteen per cent were definitely feeble-minded, and this is 
probably an underestimate ; also this sixteen per cent had 
added 1,000 illegitimate children to the population. 

Again, crime is connected with mental defect. According 
to the late Dr. Goring and other authorities, a well-marked 
characteristic of the criminal class, excluding those convicted of 
fraud, is their mental defectiveness or stupidity. There is abso- 
lutely no doubt that mental defect is hereditary, and this means 
that there is a class of criminals who should not be allowed to 
hand on their characteristics to children. Sir H. B. Donkin 
estimates that twenty per cent of our criminals are of primarily 
defective mental capacity, and the examination of the 
children in one industrial school showed that seventy-five 
per cent were defective. The doctor of a large prison where 
boy offenders are admitted thinks forty per cent are feeble- 
minded. 

Then, again, a good deal of chronic drunkenness is probably 
due to feeble-mindedness. Dr. Branthwaite, Inspector under 
the Inebriates Act, states that this is so, and Dr. Mott, 
Pathologist to the London County Asylums, says that the 
weak-minded react to alcohol more readily than do normal 
people. Probably the statement that was so often made, to 
the effect that alcoholism accounts for much insanity (sixteen 
per cent) and mental weakness, is a putting of the cart before 



EUGENICS 313 

the horse. The Royal Commission gave sixty-three per cent 
of habitual drunkards as defective. Other authorities give 
seventy per cent. 

The presence in a community of pauperism, crime, chronic 
alcoholism and mental defect is, of course, a very heavy 
burden on that community, as well as a danger to future 
generations. As an example of their expensiveness, take the 
case of the " Jukes " family in America. Starting from five 
sisters born about 1760, the family has bred an extraordinary 
number of mentally defective, criminals and paupers, and has 
cost the State 260,000 directly and an amount indirectly 
which is impossible to estimate. The maintenance of all these 
unfit people falls on the shoulders of the fit, in the form of 
rates, taxes and charity, and it makes life considerably harder 
for the fit. Hence some people have begun to wonder if our 
legislation and charity do not increase rather than lessen 
the evil, because they make it easier for the unfit to have 
children, who will inherit the mental and moral defects of 
the parent. 

Another uncomfortable matter for the social rclormcr is 
the study of Infant Mortality. The Local Government Board 
issued an interesting Report on this in 1916, showing, amongst 
other things, the chief causes of infant deaths, and comparing 
death-rates of babies in different years, going back to 1870. 
The Report shows that a very large number of children die 
under one year old, but the percentage has fallen from fifteen 
per cent in 1870 to eleven per cent in 1915. Now, of the 
causes of death, congenital debility comes first, with thirty- 
four per cent of the deaths laid at its door in 1911-14, and 
this percentage has remained practically constant since 1870, 
i.e. the decrease in death-rate is entirely due to improvement 
in infant care, supervision of midwives, compulsory notifica- 
tion of births, better medical treatment, etc. But, the pro- 
portion of deaths from inborn defects is as great as ever, and 
it is one-third of the total. 

Closely connected with infant mortality is the birth-rate. 
This has been declining since about 1870, and people are 
divided in opinion as to whether this is a good or bad thing. 
The point to emphasise here is that the decline is differential, 



314 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

i.e. greatest amongst the most capable in all classes of society, 
and least, or rather none, amongst the "unfit"; e.g. an 
investigation by Tredgold, about sixteen years ago, showed 
that the average number of children per family for the whole 
population was 4*63, and in a mentally degenerate family 
7-3, and the same holds good for the thriftless, incompetent 
and lazy, compared with the thrifty and competent. (Sydney 
Webb, Whetham and Heron all confirm this.) This means 
that, as someone puts it, " the parasitic class is propagating 
with unbated vigour." If the decrease in births had affected 
all classes of the community equally, the birth-rate of the 
country as a whole would have sunk below the death-rate 
and our population would therefore be rapidly decreasing 
Some people consider that eventually the decline in births 
will reach all classes. It seems doubtful, however, if it will 
reach the lowest strata. 

It has been pointed out by many students of history that 
a similar differential fall in the birth-rate preceded the decline 
of Ancient Greece, Rome and Spain. The decline of Spain's 
great Empire was preceded by the emigration of many of her 
best and most adventurous men to South America, the sup- 
pression of another group by the Inquisition (just those 
possessing the mental and spiritual independence which made 
them racially very valuable), and the shutting up of a third 
group, possessing very desirable moral qualities, in convents 
and monasteries. None of these could become parents of 
the next generation, and the result was rapid deterioration, 
and the modern Spaniard is still described as lacking energy 
both of thought and action. 

In England, we have to remember that , so far, the differential 
fall in the birth-rate has only been going on for about forty 
years, and therefore it is not too late to stop it, if it can be 
stopped. And some people at any rate believe that it is a 
possibility, e.g. Professor Whetham says, " By the cultivation 
of a due sense of moral responsibility, by an appeal to the 
patriotism and foresight of the nation, by a proper adjustment 
of economic burdens, by a well-considered scheme of deterrent 
legislation, a nation can control its future composition and 
history to a much larger extent than has been suspected, and 






EUGENICS 315 

whether it will or no, it is always rising or falling as regards 
its inherent qualities." 

So much for the one set of facts which have helped to stir 
up the present-day interest in human heredity, and the doubt 
as to whether our methods of social reform might not be 
revised. The other great group of facts contributing to this 
stirring up of interest are those derived from the biological 
advances which originated with Darwin's work on the Origin 
of Species. It is probably true to say that this book provided 
the stimulus which set all modern biological research going, 
including work on human heredity. Galton, the founder of 
modern eugenics, definitely says that the publication of 
Darwin's book marked an epoch in his own mental de- 
velopment, as it did in that of human thought generally, 
and incidentally he remarks on the perversity of the educated 
classes in misunderstanding Darwin's ideas, and on the 
difficulty always attending the introduction of a new idea. 
He ascribes this difficulty to the fact that it is uncomfortable 
to alter one's mental attitude, and probably he felt all the 
more sympathy with Darwin because a good deal of similar 
misunderstanding subsequently fell to his own lot, when he 
tried to revive the idea of race-improvement by way of 
heredity. 

One result of the impetus given to biology was Weissmann's 
work on " acquired characters." It had always been supposed 
that these could be passed on from patent to children, till 
Weissmann pointed out that there was no satisfactory 
evidence for this, and in 1885 he formulated the theory of 
heredity which is now accepted practically universally, i.e. 
the theory of the continuity of germ-plasm, which means that 
the germ-cell of one generation gives rise not only to the body 
of the next generation, but also directly to its germ-cells, so 
that the body does not produce the germ-cells, but only con- 
tains them. Also, no change which does not affect the germ- 
cells can be inherited. Hence, " acquired characters " are 
not inherited, or only to a small extent. On the other hand, 
it is quite probable that environment can affect the germ- 
cells, though Jww they will be affected is unknown. But it 
is a fact, proved biologically, that very many changes pro- 



316 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

duced in the parent by environment are without any influence 
on the germ-cells and hence on the race (Dr. Saleeby) 
And therefore more can be done in a few generations by making 
conditions favourable for the reproduction of innate qualities 
which are certainly transmitted than could be done in long 
ages by environment. 

Next, in 1900, Mendel's work on heredity was re-discovered, 
simultaneously and independently by seveial biologists (De 
Vries in Holland, Correns in Germany, Tschemak in Austria). 
Mendel was Abbot of the monastery of Briinn, in Bohemia, 
and published his most important paper in 1866, i.e. seven 
years after Darwin published the Origin of Species. Somehow 
or other Mendel's work was lost sight of, possibly because 
people's minds were so preoccupied with Darwin's ideas. 
The central fact proved was that certain characters in plants 
are distinct units, inherited independently of each other. 
Later work along Mendel's lines has resulted in the discovery 
that his conclusions also apply to some animal characters, 
including certain human peculiarities, such as eye-colour, 
colour-blindness, congenital cataract, right and left-handed- 
ness, though none of these characters are in themselves 
important. However, the further study of Mendelian inherit- 
ance will probably elucidate the lines along which practical 
eugenics should proceed. 

I have tried, so far, to indicate the factors which gave rise 
to the modern interest in heredity and to its inclusion as a 
factor influencing racial qualities. Now, practically, eugenics 
has come to mean the study of how we can apply the facts 
of heredity for the betterment of the race. The official 
definition of the word eugenics can be interpreted as including 
the study of both environment and heredity, but the eugenist 
does not at present trouble much about environment, because 
so many other people are willing to do that, and what needs 
emphasis is the other factor which has hitherto been ignored. 
It is not that the eugenist thinks environment unimportant. 
It is obviously of very great importance, in that bad soil 
may spoil good seed, and so it seems waste of time to argue 
about whether environment or heredity is the more im- 
portant. 



EUGENICS 317 

At this point a very brief outline of Galton's work and 
ideas is of interest, since he was the founder of modern 
eugenics. He was himself a member of a family which 
produced a great number of brilliant thinkers. His maternal 
grandfather was Dr. Erasmus Darwin, physician, poet and 
philosopher, and the grandfather also of Charles Darwin. 
So Francis Gait on was second cousin to Charles Darwin. 
He is chiefly famous for his work on heredity. His first 
papers on this subject appeared in 1865, in Macm.llaris 
Magazine, and contain the germs of his later work on eugenics. 
Gait on, however, says in his Memories that " popular feeling 
was not then ripe to accept even the elementary truths of 
hereditary talent and character upon which the possibility 
of race -improvement depends. Still less was it prepared to 
consider dispassionately any proposals for practical action. 
So I laid the subject wholly to one side for many years. As 
in most other cases of novel views, the wrong-headedness of 
objectors to eugenics has been curious. The most common 
misrepresentations now are that its methods must be al- 
together those of compulsory unions, as in breeding animals. 
It is not so. I think that stern compulsion ought to be 
exerted to prevent the free propagation of the stock of those 
who are afflicted by lunacy, feeble-mindedness, habitual 
criminality, and pauperism, but that is quite different from 
compulsory marriage. How to restrain ill-omened marriages 
is a question by itself, whether it should be effected by 
seclusion or in other ways yet to be devised that are con- 
sistent with a humane and well -informed public opinion. I 
cannot doubt that our democracy will ultimately refuse 
consent to that liberty of propagating children which is now 
allowed to the undesirable classes, but the populace has yet 
to be taught the true state of these things. A democracy cannot 
endure unless it be composed of able citizens ; therefore it 
must in self-defence withstand the introduction of degenerate 
stocks. 

What I desire is that the importance of eugenic marriages 
should be reckoned at its just value, neither too high nor too 
low, and that eugenics should form one of the many con- 
siderations by which marriages are promoted or hindered, as 



318 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

they are by social position, adequate fortune and similarity 
of creed. I can believe hereafter that it wiJl be felt as dero- 
gatory to a person of exceptionally good stock to marry into 
an inferior one as it is for a person of high Austrian rank to 
marry one who has not sixteen heraldic quarterings. I also 
hope that social recognition of an appropriate kind will be 
given to healthy, capable and large families, and that social 
influence will be exerted towards the encouragement of 
eugenic marriages. 

Confusion is often made between statistical and individual 
results. It sometimes seems to be held seriously that if the 
effect of a particular union cannot be accurately foretold 
the application of the rules of eugenics is vain. This is not 
the case. Statistics give us assurance concerning the fate 
of such or such a percentage of a large number of people 
which, when translated into other terms, is the probability 
of each of them being affected by it. From the statesman's 
point of view . . . this information is sufficient. It tells 
how large a number of undesirables or desirables can be 
introduced, or not, into a population by such and such 
measures." 

In 1869, Galton published his Hereditary Genius, in which 
he showed that instead of men being born equal they had 
very different abilities, even when training and opportunity 
were the same ; e.g. he took the results of the Cambridge 
Mathematical Tripos and showed that they represented 
difference in mathematical ability of 30 : I. Charles Darwin, 
writing to Galton apropos of this book, said, " I have only 
read about fifty pages of your book . . . but I must exhale 
myself, else something will go wrong in my inside. I do not 
think I ever, in all my life, read anything more interesting 
and original." 

Galton wrote another book in 1884, called Inquiries into 
Human Faculty, now published in Everyman's Library. 
One of the most interesting chapters in it is that on the 
" History of Twins," in which he shows that twins supply us 
with a convenient method of comparing the relative strengths 
of heredity and environment. Twins born very much alike, 
but brought up under different circumstances, remained 






EUGENICS 319 

alike both in body and mind, whereas twins who differed at 
birth, but were brought up under exactly similar circumstances, 
yet remained different. Hence he concludes that Nature is 
stronger than Nurture. 

Later, Galton founded a Eugenics Laboratory in the 
University of London, under the direction of Professor 
Pearson. That laboratory collects family histories and 
statistics of various kinds and issues a quarterly magazine 
called Biometrika and a series of interesting lectures and 
memoirs. 

Now, as to the practical proposals put forward by eugenists. 
In 1901, Galton said of eugenics, " It is smiled at as most 
desirable in itself and possibly worthy of academic discussion, 
but absolutely out of the question as a practical problem." 
In a lecture given in 1904, he says that there are three stages 
in the development of eugenics : 

1. It must be made familiar as an academic question. 

2. It must be recognised as a subject whose practical 
development deserves serious consideration. 

3. It must be introduced into the national conscience. 
With regard to the first and third stages, the Eugenics 

Education Society has been formed expressly to spread 
knowledge, in a popular form, of what eugenics is, because it 
can only be made a real force by enlisting public opinion on 
its side. As Major Leonard Darwin says, "If we could get 
the paramount racial duty which we owe to posterity incor- 
porated as an essential part of the moral code of the nation, 
then we should be on the high road to success." 

Galton 's second stage involves consideration of practical 
action, and here all sane eugenists agree that we do not yet 
know enough of the laws of heredity to justify legislation 
except in extreme cases, but they hold that we do know 
enough to keep us very well occupied till the study of heredity 
provides further data. Practical proposals can be classified 
as positive and negative. Some people add a third group, the 
" preventive." 

Positive proposals aim at encouraging worthy parenthood. 
Galton suggested that societies might be formed to collect 
funds for starting young couples of " worthy " qualities in 



320 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

their married life and helping them and their families at 
critical times. Another suggestion, and perhaps a more 
practicable one, is that we should welcome the right type of 
immigrant and discourage the wrong type. As it is, we let 
them all come, though we are the only nation that does so. 
Neither our Colonies nor other countries will accept the 
" unfit "' from us, though they do accept 200,000 able and 
healthy emigrants annually from us. We, on the other hand, 
receive the off-scourings of other countries, and these are 
racially very undesirable. A third proposal is for differential 
taxation, according to the number of children, and here we 
have made a beginning, for income-tax is rebated to a small 
extent in consideration of wife and children. Also, the 
incomes of husband and wife ought to be reckoned separately 
for income-tax, instead of being added together, as is done at 
present, the result being that a very much higher rate of tax 
has to be paid ; i.e. marriage is penalised. Also scholarships 
for children of large families or bonuses at fourteen might 
deprive some racially desirable classes of the argument that 
prudence demands a small family. A fourth suggestion is 
that we should try to build up a spirit of self-sacrifice in the 
people who in the past did and in the present could have 
fairly large families. As Dr. Ballantyne says, " The extra 
baby must be weighed against the motor-car, and recognised 
as of more value/' A fifth suggestion is that we ought to try 
to do away with wages which do not admit of decent rearing 
of a family, and with housing conditions which have the same 
effect. These proposals imply, of course, that the falling 
birth-rate is undesirable. 

However, the line along which, in the present state of our 
knowledge, most profitable work can be done is that of nega- 
tive eugenics, i.e. the discouragement of unworthy parenthood. 
Directly we know that a defect is transmissible, we also know 
that its possessor, from the racial point of view, cught not to 
have children. Compulsion is not possible always, but if we 
had succeeded in developing a " eugenic conscience " in that 
person, we could appeal to that conscience, and here comes in 
the value of educating public opinion. But, apart from these 
cases, directly we come to mental deficiency we have a sure 



EUGENICS 321 

foundation for practical action, and recognition of that fact 
has already brought about a step in the right direction, viz. 
the passing of the Mental Deficiency Act which came into 
force in April, 1914, and made it legal to detain mentally 
deficient children for life in institutions. The essential point, 
of course, is that in such institutions marriage is not allowed, 
but the individual lives a very much happier life in them 
than if left to drift along in the world. Until 1914 a de- 
fective child could be forced to attend a special school till 
the age of sixteen, but then he was free to live at large, 
and the result almost always was disaster. The small results 
produced by the defective school disappeared in a short time 
after leaving, and the boy or girl drifted into immorality, 
drink, pauperism, and crime, and handed on the mental defect 
to a particularly large number of descendants. It was the 
wastefulness of energy and money involved by special schools 
under these conditions that partly explains why Local Au- 
thorities have been so unwilling to build them. We have 
at present about 30,000 defective children capable of some 
sort of education, but schools for only half of them. As 
to institutions for life-long care of the feeble-minded, the 
actual provision is almost a negligible quantity compared 
with the need; but one must remember that the Mental 
Deficiency Act had only been in force for three months before 
the war broke out and put a stop to all internal reforms. 
One hopes that a good deal will now* be done in this matter 
of providing institutional care. The cost will be great, but 
we should probably be repaid in a couple of generations by 
the saving on asylums, prisons, reformatories, special schools, 
workhouses, inebriate homes, and so on, and by the gain in 
production of goods owing to the setting free for other work 
of the army of officials now employed to look after the unfit. 

Other and less costly methods of preventing the propagation 
of the unfit exist, and have been tried in America, though I 
do not know if the experiments have gone on long enough to 
show results ; but the segregation method is the one most in 
accord with present-day public opinion in England. . 

A point to remember is that segregation alone will never 
completely stamp out mental defect, because the group of 



322 A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 

diseases known as venereal or social cause mental deficiency in 
the children, and until we deal with those diseases we shall 
always have fresh cases of mental defect arising. Hence the 
group of proposals under the head of " preventive eugenics." 

Epilepsy is another disease which is definitely hereditary 
in a good many of its forms, and epilepsy and feeble-minded- 
ness are interchangeable, i.e. an epileptic may have feeble- 
minded children, or conversely a feeble-minded parent may 
have epileptic children. Hence the hereditarily epileptic 
ought not to have children. 

Another practical point is our present method of letting 
patients out of asylums directly their symptoms disappear. 
They are said to be cured, but often their power of handing 
on their mental defect is not cured, and as soon as they are 
sent out into the world, therefore, they become a racial 
danger. It has been suggested that sterilisation might be 
tried in these cases . 

A third disease which is hereditary in one of its forms is 
deaf-mutism, and so all remarks applying to mental defect 
apply here also. 

A fourth practical suggestion is that we should alter our 
method of dealing with the criminal. As many are mentally 
defective they should be prevented from parenthood, but at 
present such criminals are often subjected to many short 
terms of prison, and between whiles propagate their kind. 
Hence the habitual criminal should be segregated for long 
periods. Dr. Goring finds that the children of the criminal 
are ten times more likely to turn out criminal than are the 
children of normal parents, and the moral surely is, Do not 
let the criminal be a parent. Actually this could be done by 
treating the mentally defective criminal under the Mental 
Deficiency Act, instead of under the Criminal Laws. 

A fifth suggestion is that tramps should be sent to Labour 
Colonies to give them a chance of reforming, and if incurable 
they could be detained or otherwise dealt with so as to prevent 
reproduction. 

A sixth suggestion is that all doctors should have to learn 
the laws of heredity. At present many have " a bundle of 
prejudices instead of systematic knowledge." 



EUGENICS 323 

There are some objections to eugenics which crop up fairly 
often, and perhaps therefore might be mentioned. 

1. One is the idea that belief in heredity is a fatalistic, 
hopeless sort of creed which saps effort and the sense of 
personal responsibility and freedom. It surely need not, for 
here the value of training and environment comes in most 
hopefully for the individual. Even though you cannot make 
a silk purse out of a sow's ear, you can make various other 
useful things out of it. Also " forewarned is forearmed." If 
we know our weaknesses we can guard against them, and so 
we are more, not less, responsible for ourselves and for the race. 

And as to heredity being a depressing sort of business, here 
we all need to lay more stress on the inheritance of the good, 
as well as of the bad. We talk more about the latter because 
we know better how to stop it than how to promote the 
inheritance of the good, and we are inclined to forget the 
things we have to be grateful for. 

2. A second objection is felt by some Christians, who feel 
that there is an antagonism between religion and eugenics. 
And this also surely need not be. As Dr. Lyttelton, the late 
Head of Eton, says, Christianity, more than any other power, 
has given us the sense of the infinite value of human life, 
and the eugenist is trying to prevent the wreckage of human 
life. Dr. Lyttelton goes on to say what a help it is to a teacher 
who is trying to implant eugenic ideals in a pupil, if that 
pupil already has the idea of the Fatherhood of God. If so, 
he is ready to understand the preciousness of human life and 
to shape his conduct in conformity with that idea. If, on 
the other hand, the pupil has no personal religion, it is a very 
difficult thing to implant the idea of the value of life. 



INDEX 



Accommodation, 156 
Adenoids, 61 
Adolescence, 247 
^Esthesiometer, 147, 177 
After-care of the school child, 247 
Alcohol, characteristics of, 212 

effect of excess on blood, 214 

effect of excess on brain, 215 

effect of excess on capacity for 
work, 215 

effect of excess on cell, 214 

effect of excess on digestion, 

215 

effect of excess on home, 2 1 6 

effect of excess on state, 2 1 7 

effect of excess on warmth, 214 

effect on body, 2 1 3 

effect on growth, 215 

percentage in various bever- 
ages, 213 

preparation of, 213 
Alopecia, 104 
Amoeba, 2 
Anaemia, 42 
Aorta, 38 
Apoplexy, 250 
Arm, bones of, 20 
Association-fibres , 125 
Astigmatism, 162 
Atlas vertebra, 15 
Auditory canal, 166 

word-centre, 168 
Auricle, 38, 166 
Axis vertebra, 15 
Axon, 123 

Backward classes, 139 

Bacteria, 76, 77, 186 

Beverages, 79 

Biceps, 23 

Birth-rate, decline of, 280 

Bleeding from nose, 251 



Bleeding from wounds, 251 
Blepharitis, 163 
Blind, special schools for, 264 
Blood, 36 

clotting of, 37 

necessities for good, 41 

symptoms of abnormality in, 
42 

Bone, composition and develop- 
ment of, u, 12 

structure of long, 1 2 
Brain, 125 

Breathlessness, 60, 61 
Broken arm, 255 

bones, 253 

collar-bone, 255 

forearm, 255. 

leg, 254 

thigh, 254 
Bronchus, 57 
Bruises, 256 
Burns, 256 

Capillaries, 39, 57 

Carbohydrates, 73 

Cartilage, 1 1 

Cataract, 165 

Central-hall type of school, 48, 222 

Cerebellum, 125 

Cerebrum, 125 

Chest-framework, 19 

Chicken-pox, 194 

Children Act, 121, 297-299 

Chorea, 201 

Choroid coat of eye, 154 

Cilia, 59 

Circulation of blood, 40, 41 

Circulatory system, 36 

Cleanliness, 113, 182 

Cleansing of verminous children, 

106, 299 
Cloak-rooms, 231 



3 2 5 



326 



A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 



Clothing, aim of lessons on, in 

children's, 109 

conductivity for heat of, 108 

foot-gear, 1 1 1 

inflammability of, 109 

make of, 109 

on fire, 257 

- weight of, 109 
Coccyx, 1 5 
Cochlea, 168 
Cocoa, 8 1 
Coffee, 8 1 
Cohn's type, 165 
Collar-bone, 14, 19 
Concussion of brain, 250 
C on j uncti vitis , 163 
phlyctenular, 164 

purulent, 1 64 
Constipation, 75 
Contagious impetigo, 92 
Convergence, 157 
Cornea, 155 
Corpuscles, 36 

manufactured in marrow, 1 3 
Cowpox, 193 

Crdches, 285 
Crystalline lens, 156 
Curiosity in children, 131 

Day nurseries, 285 

Deaf-mutes, methods of educating, 

172, 264, 265 
- causes of, 169 

degrees of, 171 

signs of, 1 70 

tests of, 1 70 

types of school for, 1 74 

under school age, 1 74 . 
Deafness, 169 

de I'Epee, 173 
Dendrites, 123 
Dermis, 98 
Desks, 228 

adjustable, 228-230 

dual, 230 

long, 230 

slope of lid, 230 
Diarrhosa, infantile, 87 
Diet, children's, 84 
Digestion, 74 
Digestive system, 64 
Diphtheria, 189 

antitoxin, 1 90 

of nose, 191 



Diphtheria of windpipe, 190 
Dislocations, 256 
Drowning, 258 
Drum of ear, 166 
Dull children, 139 

Ear, 1 66 

inner, 168 

middle, 167 

wax in, 166 
Earth closets, 232 
Education (Blind and Deaf Chil- 
dren) Act, 300 

(Choice of Employment) Act, 

304 

(Defective and Epileptic Chil- 
dren) Acts, 300, 301 

(Provision of Meals) Acts, 299, 
300 

Employment of children, 302 

out of school, 304 
Epiglottis, 54 

Epilepsy, 201 
Epileptic schools, 264 
Ergograph, 1 46 
Eugenics, 306-323 
Eustachian tube, 167 
Excretory system, 98-107 
Eye, 153 

Factory Act, 295 
Fainting, 42 

Farms, inspection of, 78 
Fatigue, muscular, 31-33, 148 

mental, 145 

tests for, 146 

type of child liable to, 1 48 
Fats, 73 

Feeble-minded children, 140 

after-care of, 142 
educational provision for, 

141 
Feeding of school children, 92 

arrangements at centre, 

94 

in London, 95 

in rural districts, 95 

premises for meals, 93 - 

results, 95 

selection of children, 93 

Femur, 20 

Fertility, causes of reduction in, 
280 

in relation to social status, 281 



INDEX 



827 



Fibula, 20 
Filters, 86 
Fires, coal, 47 

gas, 48 

First Aid in minor injuries and 
common ailments, 250-260 

case, contents of, 260 

Flat-foot, 20 

Flatulence, 38 

Flies, contamination of food by, 

87 

Floor-heating, 224 
Fontanelles, 19 
Food, acids in, 78, 79 

adulteration of, 78 

animal parasites in, 78 

classes of, 85, 86 

cleanliness of, 86 

contamination by flies, 76, 87, 
184 

dangers of tainted or diseased, 

76 
if adulterated, 76 

of too much, 75 

of too little, 76 

freshness of, 73 

functions of, 73 

need of protecting, 76 

poisons in tinned, 79 

variation in amount of, 76 

vitamines, 73 
Foot-gear, in 

Foreign bodies in ear, 257 
in eye, 257 

in nose, 258 

in throat, 258 
Fracture, 253 

greenstick, 1 2 

of arm, 255 

of collar-bone, 255 

of forearm, 255 
-of leg, 254 

of thigh, 254 

Games, organised, 25 
German measles, 194 
Germs, 185 
Glare, 227 
Glottis, 54 
Gristle, n 
Gulley trap, 235 

Habits, 121, 133 
Haemoglobin, 36 



Handwork, choice of, 35 

Hare-lip, 64 

Health of Munition Workers 

Committee, 113 
Health-visiting, 284 
Hearing, 168 
defective, 169 

tests for, 170 
Heart, 37, 38 
Heart disease, 206, 207 
Heinicke, 173 
Hospitals, treatment of school 

children at, 245 
Hot- water heating, 223 
Humerus, 20, 23 
Hygiene course for girls, 293 

" drills " in, 182 

mental, 131, 132 

practice of, 180-184 
Hysteria, 203 

Idiot, 144 

Imbecile, 144 

Industrial schools, 298 

Infant mortality, 279, 281, 282 

welfare, 279 
. centres, 285 

scheme, 289 

Infant-school furniture, 230 
Infantile paralysis, 194 
Infectious eczema, 100 

diseases, 1 8 5200 

climax of, 187 

convalescence from, 187 

decline of, 187 

immunity from, 186 

incubation period, 187 

period of infection, 187 
symptoms common to most, 

187 

Inferior vena cava, 38 
Inhibition, 128 
Insect stings, 257 
Inspection trap, 235 
Instincts, 129 

Intemperance, effects of, 2 1 3-2 1 7 
Iris of eye, 155 
Itch, 100 

Jenner, 193 
Joints, 2O t 21 

Kidneys, 106 



328 



A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 



Lachrymal glands, 153 
Larynx, 54-56 
Lavatories, 182, 231 
Legislation affecting school chil- 
dren, 295-305 
Lice, 104 
Lighting, 224 

artificial, 226 

indirect, 227 

test for, 227 
Liver, 71 
Long sight, 161 
Lupus, 197 
Lymph, 43 
Lymphatic glands, 43 

system, 43 

vessels, 43, 74 

McKinnell's ventilator, 54 
Malnutrition, 88, 197 

causes of, 89 

methods of dealing with, 91 

prevalence of, 91 

Manual or finger-spelling method 

of educating deaf-mute's, 173 
Manual work, place of, 35 
Marrow, 13 

Maternity centres, 285* 
Measles, 188 
Medical inspection, 237, 300 

arguments for, 239 

co-operation of teachers in, 

243 

history of, 237 

modification due to war, 242 

Meibomian glands, 154 
Mental Deficiency Act, 302 
Mental dullness and deficiency, 

139-144 

special schools for, 261 

symptoms of, 143 
Metacarpals, 20 
Milk as a disease-carrier, 77 

comparison of human and 
cow's, 8 1 

condensed, 82 

dried, 83 

sterilising, 82 

tuberculous germs in, 77 
Mineral salts in food, 73 
Moral defects, 144 
Mothercraft, importance of teach- 
ing to elder girls, 290 



Motor nerve-cells, 125 
nerve-fibres, 1 25 

speech-centre, 1 68 
Mouth, 64 

Mouth-breathing, 61, 182 
Mumps, 194 

Muscles, involuntary, 24 

growth of, 24 

structure of, 22 

work of, 23 
Muscular sense, 178 

system, 4, 22 
Myopia, 158 
Myopic classes, 159 

Nasal breathing, 61 
Nerve-cell, 123 

centres for speech and writing, 

133. 134 
development of, 1 30 

fibre, 123 

Nervous conditions, 201-205 

system, characteristics of 
child's, 135 

development of, 129, 130 

structure of, 123 
Neurasthenia, 203 
Nits, 105 

removal of, 106 
Nucleus, 2 
Nursery schools, 286 
Nutrition, 88 

Offices, 231 

supervision of, 233 
Open-Air Education, 265-278 
Ophthalmia neonatorum, 164 
Oral method of educating deaf- 
mutes, 173 

Ossification, 12 

Palate, 64 

arched and narrow, 64 

cleft, 64 
Pancreas, 71 

Pavilion schools, 53, 222 
Pediculi, 104 
Pelvis or pelvic girdle, 20 
Peptone, 74 
Pericarditis, 38 
Pericardium, 37 
Peristaltic action, 75 
Phagocytes, 37 
Phalanges, 20 



INDEX 



329 



Pharynx, 54 
Phthisis, 197 
Physical exercise, 24-28 
and respiration, 62 

disabilities of children, 185- 
205 

stigmata, 64 
Playgrounds, 220 
Pleurisy, 38, 58 
Poisons, 259 
Posture, 28-31 

in connection with breathing, 63 
Practice of hygiene, 180-184 
Proteids, 73 

Protoplasm, 2 
Psychasthenia, 203 
Ptomaine-poisoning, 76 
Pugnacity, 131 
Pupil of eye, 155 

Radiant heat, methods of obtain- 
ing, 47, 223 
Radiators, electric, 48 
hot-water, 48 
Radius, 20, 23 
Rashes, 187 
Reflex action, 129, 133 
Reformatory schools, 298 
Respiration, effect on air of room, 

45 

mechanism of, 54, 58 

nervous control of, 60 

purposes of, 45 

types of, 60 

Respiratory system, 4, 45-63 
Retina, 1 54 

Rheumatism, 21, 207, 208 
Rickets, 20, 96 

Right lymphatic duct, 43 
Rigor, 187 
Ringworm, 102 

Sacrum, 15 
St. Vitus' Dance, 201 
Salivary glands, 70 
Sanatorium schools, 265 

treatment for tuberculosis, 199 
Scabies, 100 

Scald-head, ido 
Scalds, 256 
Scarlatina, 191 
Scarlet fever, 191 
School building and surroundings, 
218-236 



School, central-hall type, 48 

cleaning, 235 
clinics, 245 

doctor, duties and qualifica- 
tions of, 241 

nurses, duties of, 243 

pavilion or Staffordshire type, 
53 

Schools for mothers, 287 

Scrofula, 197 

Semi-blind, education of, 159 

Semi-circular canals of ear, 168 

Semi-deaf, education of, 172 

Sense-training, 1 5 1 

Sensory nerve-cells, 124 

nerve-fibres, 125 
Sewer-gas, 191, 234 
Sex-teaching for children, 132, 183 
Sheringham valve, 54 

Short sight, 158 

causes of, 159 

prevention and remedy of, 

159 

symptoms of, 159 

Shoulder-blade, 19 

girdle, 19 
Shower-baths, 115, 182 
Site for school, 218 
Skeleton, 4, 11-21 
Skin, care of, 99, 100 

diseases, 100-104 

functions of, 98, 177, 178 

structure of, 98 
Skull, 1 8 

Sleep, 136 

Sleeplessness, 138 

Smallpox, 192 

Smell, sense of, 176 

Snellen's type, 165 

Soil pipe, 235 

Sore eyes, 163 

Special schools for blind and deaf, 

264 

for epileptic, 264 

. for mentally defective, 261 
Speech and writing, development 

of centres for, 133, 134 
Spinal column, 13 
shape of, 16 

cord, 127 

nerves, 128 
Sprains, 256 
Squint, 162 
Stammering, 204 



330 



A TEXTBOOK OF HYGIENE 



Stoves, 224 

Stroke, 250 

Struma, 1 97 

Stunning, 250 

Stye, 154 

Sunstroke, 251 

Swimming baths, 114 

Sympathetic nervous system, 127 

Tapeworm, 78 

Tea, its use and abuse, 80, 81 

Taste, 176 

Tears, 153 

Teeth, 65-70 

development of, 67 

milk and permanent, 67 

prevalence of defects, 66 

prevention of decay, 69 

process of decay, 69 

results if defective, 65 

structure of, 66 
Temperance, 209-217 

Board's syllabus of lessons on, 

212 

methods of teaching, 209 
Temperature, 187 
Thoracic duct, 43 
Thorax, 19 

Tibia, 20 
Tissue, 4 
Tobin's tube, 54 
Tongue, 64 
Tonsils, 6 1 

Total abstinence, 212 
Touch, 177 
Touch-corpuscles, 98 
Treatment of phsical defects, 
245-247 

future developments, 247 
Triceps, 23, 24 
Trichinosis, 78 
Trough closets, 232 
Tubercle, 20, 21 
Tuberculosis, 196200 

and cows, 77 

germs in milk, 77 



Tuberculosis, infection in school, 
200 

sanatorium treatment of, 199 

types of, 197 
Typhoid, 76 

Ulna, 20, 23 
Unconsciousness, 250 
Uvula, 64 

Vaccination, 192 
Vaccinia, 193 
Valves in heart, 38 

veins, 39 
Varicose veins, 39 
Ventilation, 47 

artificial and natural, 48-54 
Ventilation, Plenum or Propulsion 

System, 49 

Vacuum or Extraction System, 
50 

Ventricle, 38 

Vertebra, 1 5 

Vestibule of ear, 168 

Vision tests, 165 

Visual word-centre, 168 

Vitamines, 73, 81, 82, 83 

Vocal cords, 54 

Voice, breaking of boy's, 56 

pitch, 56 

- production of, 56 

Warming of schools, 222 
Water, cleanliness of, 79, 86 
Water-closets, 231, 233 
Welfare of infants and young 

children, 279-294 
Water supply, 79, 80 
Whooping cough, 189 
Wind-pipe, 54 
Word-blindness, 1 34 
Word-deafness, 134, 175 
Writing centre, 168 

X-ray treatment for ringworm, 
103 



The Mayjlower Press, Plymouth, England. William Brendon & Son, Ltd. 



PSYCHOLOGY 



An Introduction to Social Psychology 

By WILLIAM M'DOUGALL, F.R.S., Professor of 
Psychology, Harvard University, U.S.A. Fifteenth 
Edition. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. net. 

The social philosophy of Bentham and Mill, so long domi- 
nant in this country, was based upon the doctrine that the 
motive of all human action is the desire to secure pleasure 
or to avoid pain. That this doctrine is fallacious is now 
generally recognized ; but its place at the foundation of all 
the social sciences has not yet been filled by any consistent 
theory of human motives. The aim of this book is to fill the 
vacant place, to supply this lacking foundation-stone. In 
the first part the principal motive forces that underlie all the 
activities of individuals and of societies are defined, and the 
way in which they become organized in the individual mind 
under the pressure of the social environment is sketched 
in systematic outline. The second part illustrates the ways 
in which each of them plays its part in the life of society. 

The Psychology of Persuasion 

By WILLIAM MACPHERSON, M.A., Inspector of 
Schools to the City of Bradford Education Com- 
mittee. Crown 8vo, 6s. net. 

The writer deals with his subject in a clear and popular 
style and draws many illustrations from the situations of 
everyday life and from recent public events. He analyses the 
mental processes involved in the persuasion of ourselves and 
others, and describes the arts of the politician, the lawyer, 
the preacher, the journalist, the pamphleteer, the novelist, 
the dramatist, the advertiser, the salesman, and the cinema 
producer. The purpose of the book is fundamentally serious 
and practical, but its treatment is enlivened by many enter- 
taining comments and examples. In view of the increasing 
prominence now being given to " propaganda " in public life, 
the book has a decidedly topical interest. 



METHUEN & CO. LTD., 36 Essex Street, London, W.C. 2. 



EDUCATION 



Nursery School Education 

Edited by GRACE OWEN, B.Sc., Principal of the 
Mather Training College for Nursery School Super- 
intendents and Junior School Teachers, Manchester. 
With 8 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 5s. 6d. net. 

This volume deals with the problems involved in estab- 
lishing' Nursery Schools under the new Education Act. 
Specialists contribute sections on the different aspects of the 
question. The hygienic conditions of the Nursery are treated 
by Catherine Chisholm, B.A. , M.D., Medical Inspector to the 
Manchester High School for Girls, Hon. Physician to the 
Manchester Babies Hospital and the Manchester Northern 
Hospital for Women and Children ; and the psychology of 
early childhood by Olive A. Wheeler, D.Sc., Lecturer in 
Education at the University of Manchester and author of 
"Anthropomorphism and Science." Other sections on the 
educational training of the Nursery School Child, desirable 
buildings and equipment, and the relation of the nursery to 
other organizations are included, by Margaret E. Eggar, 
Lecturer in Education, Manchester University, and the Editor, 



Educational Experiments in England 

By ALICE WOODS, Principal (1892-1913) Maria Grey 
Training College, London. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. net. 

This book sketches the educational awakening in our 
country. The gradual realization of the importance of 
psychology in relation to education is next traced and various 
educational movements are described, followed by descrip- 
tions of types of experiments. Some attempt is made to 
criticize and synthesize these experiments, and the book con- 
cludes with a forecast of the future of -English education. 

METHUEN & CO. LTD., 36 Essex Street, London, W.C. 2. 



MANUAL WORK 



The Play-work Book 

By ANN MACBETH, Glasgow School of Art. With 
114 Illustrations. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 
3s. 6d. net. 

A manual for Teachers and those in charge of Nursery 
Schools and play centres, with numerous illustrations and 
directions for the construction of simple things for use and 
play. 

School and Fireside Crafts 

By ANN MACBETH and MAY SPENCE. WitlT 
numerous Illustrations. Fcap. 4to, 8s. 

This book is an attempt to stimulate and foster inventive 
development in useful and artistic work. It contains sugges- 
tions for elementary and recreative handicrafts for old and 
young ; the making of wooden articles, of simple pottery and 
simple modelled articles in clay ; the decoration of ware 
already made, with brief directions for firing it ; the making 
of baskets with materials to be gathered in our own country 
and prepared by the workers ; and the adornment and 
improvement of work done in the manual classes of our 
schools. It is planned to be of special use to those teaching 
in evening schools and guilds of all kinds. 

The Teaching of Geography to Children 

By LILY WINCHESTER, Hon. M.A., Lecturer on 
Geography, University of Liverpool. With a Preface 
by Professor PERCY M. ROXBY. Crown 8vo, 2s. 

The teaching of no subject has changed more in recent 
years than that of Geography, and in no subject have teachers 
more need of expert guidance. This is specially true of the 
teaching of Geography to young beginners. Miss Winchester 
has the knowledge and experience necessary to give such 
guidance, which she does clearly and attractively in this 
little book. 

METHUEN & CO. LTD., 36 Essex Street, London, W.C. 2. 



BRITISH HISTORY 



A Historical Geography of the British 
Empire 

By HEREFORD B. GEORGE, M.A., Fellow of New 
College, Oxford. Sixth Edition, Revised by 
REGINALD W. JEFFERY, M.A., Lecturer in Modern 
History, Brasenose College, Oxford. With a Map. 
Crown 8vo, 7s. 

The purpose of this work is twofold to describe in outline 
the British Empire, with its component parts so grouped as 
to show forth the diversity of their relations to the mother 
country, and to point out the nature of the relations between 
the geography and the history of the British Islands from 
the beginning, and in the case of the other possessions from 
the time of their becoming British. 

A Social and Industrial History of 
England, 1815-1918 

By J. F. REES, M.A., Lecturer on Economic History 
in the University of Edinburgh. Crown 8vo, 5s. net. 

This book is intended to serve as an introduction to the 
study of the historical background of modern industrial and 
social questions. It deals with the evolution of English 
industrial conditions from the close of the Napoleonic War to 
the outbreak of the Great European War. Particular atten- 
tion is paid to social consequences and the growth of opinion. 
Throughout the book mere details are subordinated to an 
attempt to interpret the main lines of' development. 

METHUEN & CO. LTD., 36 Essex Street, London, W.C. 2. 



University of Toronto 
l&rary. 



DO NOT 
REMOVE 
THE 
CARD 



FROM 

THIS 

POCKET 



Acme Library Card Pocket 

Under Pat. "Ref. Index File" 
Made by LIBRARY BUREAU 




