
Lrxi$ JDooK_ 



Household Science 
Department 
Univ. of Toronto 



■ ',(1 
THE JOURNAL 

OF 

HOME ECONOMICS 



PUBLISHED BY 
THE AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 



COMPLETE IN TWELVE NUMBERS 
VOL. XU, 1920 



BALTIMORE, MD. 
1920 




iioi;)'Vb 



TX 



J7 



Vol. XII. No. 1 January, 1920 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemaking. Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

Mu. Aucs P. NoiTON, Editor Ketueah E Baij>wih, Businttt EdiUr 

Editorial Board 
Hki. Mast H. Abkl C. F. Lamgworthy Ethelwyn Miller Roth Wheeler Aut Dakiiu 

EK-OJici0 Members — Edna N. Whiti, President American Home Economics Association 
Elsie Leonard, Chairman Institution Economics Section 
Katharine Blunt, Cfaairman Science Section 
Mauie Bunch, Chairman Extension Education Section 
Mabel Trilling, Chairman Textile Section 

CoUcborators—Tht OflBcers, Members of the Council, and Advisors 



CONTENTS 

The Present Status of Vitamikes Katharine Blunt and Chi Che Wang 1 

Recent .\dvances in ol-r Knowledge of Food Selection ant) Prepakation 

Mabd T. WcUman 15 

.'\n ExPERinrENT IN SOCIALIZING IIoirE ECONOMICS EDUCATION .... Emma A. WinsloiV 26 

Tile Training of Children as a Part of Laboratorx Work in Home Management . . 

Elizabeth Vermilye 28 

For the Hosiemaker 

Cost op Lrtng Florence Xesbitl 35 

To Cook Prunes without Heat or Sugar 36 

A Card System of Household Accounting Ella Kaiser Carrulh 37 

Minimum Wage 39 

Shoes 40 

Not Bread Alone 41 

Effect of Beating Cake M.vde with Different Baking Pow ders Evelyn G. HaHiday 42 

The En"d of an 80-Hour Day 43 

Editorial 44 

Comment and Discussion 45 

News from the Field 47 



Ths JotrsKAL o? HoicB EcoNouTcs is published monthly by tne American Home conomics Atsociat on. 

IJ.H A YEAR. FOREIGN U.35. CANADIAN J2.20. SINGLE COPIES 25 CENT.« 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Check, Express Order or Postal Money Order, payable to the 
Ameritan Home Economics Association. Currency, unless mailed in a registered letter, is at the sender's risk. 

NOTICE. When payment is m.ide by check no receipt will be sent unless requested 

CHANGE IN ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent Two Weeks before the date of issue on which 
llu change is to take effect. The subscriber's Old Address should be clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 1211 Cathedral St., Baltimore, Md. 

The JoDtNAi, OF Houz EcoNomcs is on aale at John Wanamaker's, Philadelphia; The Old Comer Book Store, Boatoo; 

A. C. McClurg's, Chicago; Baltimore Newt Company, Baltimore: Woodward and Lothrop, Waahmgton 



JOURNAL OF nOtIB BCONOUICS—ADVERTISEUENTS 



/^REAM OF TARTAR, which is 
^^ derived from grapes, makes the 
highest quahty baking powder. 

That is the reason it is used in 

ROYAL 
Baking Powder 

Absolutely Pure 



I'lFTY YEARS PRE-EMINENT FOR MAKING 
1 HE FINEST AND MOST WHOLESOME FOOD 



Royal Contains No Alum — 

Leaves No Bitter Taste 



In writing advertisers, please mention Journal of Home Economics 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. XII JANUARY, 1920 No. 1 

THE PRESENT STATUS OF VITAMINES 

KATHARINE BLUNT AND CHI CHE WANG' 

University of Chicago 

It is not a simple undertaking to summarize even the more important 
points in the recent literature on vitamines, because the subject has 
been developing very fast during the last few years, and parts of it are 
still much in debate. Not only has information been gained from 
laboratory research but from observations of the tragic human 
experience with inadequate war diets. 

The material is considered under the headings of the three \dtamines 
now recognized- — fat-soluble A, present in butter fat, cod-liver oil, green 
leaves, etc., the absence of which results often in the eye disease xero- 
phthalmia; water-soluble B, fairly widely distributed in plants, and 
necessary to prevent polyneuritis or beri-beri; and water-soluble C, 
the antiscorbutic vitamine. All are necessary' for the best growth. 

FAT-SOLUBLE A 

Dr. H. Gideon Wells^ of the Department of Pathology of the Uni- 
versity of Chicago, who served in Roumania under the Red Cross, tells 
a dramatic story showing the need of this vitamine for children. The 
scanty diet in Roumania, when he arrived, consisted of little more than 
a limited amount of corn-meal and cjuantities of a very thin bran-vege- 
table soup. There was no milk nor butler, for the Austrians had driven 
off the cows. Many of the children had eye disease, sometimes so severe 

' The authors wish to thank Dr. Lafayette B. Mendel and Dr. E. V. McCollum for read- 
ing this paper and making important suggestions. 
' Personal communication. 

1 



2 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

as to cause blindness. There also was much of the distressing swollen 
condition known as war-cdcma, the latter probably due to the low 
calories and especially the low protein of the diet. Dr. Wells, at the 
height of his difl'iculties in getting food of any kind, learned of a vessel 
which had put into Archangel with cod-liver oil as its entire cargo. 
Through the efforts of the Red Cross all of it was sent down, and it 
saved the lives of many of the children. After their long fat starvation, 
they took readily what might have been refused under happier 
circumstances. 

Not only xerophthalmia but rickets may be connected with lack of 
the fat-soluble vitaminc. Work by Mellanby (1) on puppies seems to 
point in this direction, and possibly that of Hess and Unger (2) on the 
value of cod-liver oil in curing and preventing rickets in negro infants. 

The need for fat-soluble A is not limited to children or young animals 
in general. Drummond (3), in London, has shown that as young rats 
approach maturity their requirement becomes markedly less. They 
can even live without it in apparently good health for considerable 
time, but sooner or later they lose weight and often have eye disease. 
They also show a distinct decrease in resistance to various infections, 
many deaths from infectious disease occurring. The older the young 
rats are the longer they can stand the inadequate diet before their decline. 
Dr. McCollum in his lectures has reported what he believes to be a 
similar pathological eye effect in adult human beings in certain northern 
lumber camps where the only fat is cured bacon and where the diet must 
be almost completely lacking in ^4. A condition known as "night- 
blindness" is prevalent^a defect of eyesight not noticed by the non- 
reading laborer till the dim light of night. "There is therefore every 
reason," says Drummond, "that great care should be taken to ensure 
that dietaries of adults contain an adequate supply of foodstuffs in 
which the fat-soluble A is present. " 

The f at-soluble"\-itamine occurs in more foods than was at first thought, 
but in variable quantities. Butter fat is still regarded as the most 
important source, but the quantity (4) therein depends upon the quantity 
of A in the feed of the cow and upon the manipulation of the butter itself. 
(See below in connection with stability.) WTiale oil is another fairly 
rich source, though not so rich as butter. Drummond (5), with care- 
fully standardized methods of feeding young rats and noting the change 
of weight, if any, week by week, found that he obtained about the same 
satisfactory growth when the fat-soluble A came wholly from 8 per cent 



1920] PRESENT STATUS OF VITAMINES 3 

butter fat or 20 per cent whale oil. McCollum (6) has found even 
smaller amounts of butter fat entirely satisfactory — as little as 3 per cent. 
Fish oils in general, and fat fish may serve as valuable sources. Oleo 
oil, as shown by Osborne and Mendel several years ago, contains a fair 
amount of it, and so do oleomargarines made from oleo oil, but not the 
nut margarines made wholly from vegetable oils (8). However, as 
Steenbock (4) says, "Oleomargarines .... are not to be con- 
sidered in the same class as good butter in providing the organism with 
the fat-soluble vitamine. " Pig's liver oil, and liver tissue, kidney tissue, 
probably glandular organs in general (9) give fair supplies — that is, 
that portion of the animal of which we eat little is far superior to the 
skeleton muscle of which we eat much. 

Of the vegetable sources we know even better than formerly the value 
of spinach. Osborne and Mendel (10) fed rats dried spinach to the 
extent of 5 per cent of the diet as their only source of fat-soluble vitamine 
for eighty-seven and eighty-three days; then substituted the spinach 
by yeast, which is free from the fat-soluble vitamine, containing only 
the water-soluble. The rats continued to thrive for ninety-three and 
ninety -seven days more; that is, they had stored up enough of the fat- 
soluble vitamine from the spinach to last through the long period of 
deprivation. Cabbage is not so satisfactory. Carrots (11), although 
not leaves, have some fat-soluble A; peas (12) a small amount. So, too, 
possibly do bananas (13). Yellow corn (14) may contain sufficient 
amounts to allow normal growth and reproduction in the rat, but 
white corn is valueless as a source. 

A very interesting generalization' has been made by Steenbock (14) 
about the foods which contain this vitamine: they all contain yellow 
coloring matter. Butter, egg yolks, cod-liver oil are obvious examples. 
Oleo oil, the part of the beef fat which contains the vitamine, is yellow, 
the solid beef fat which lacks it is colorless. Of the commercial oleo 
oils which he has tested, those most liighly pigmented are richest in the 
fat-soluble vitamine. Colored roots such as carrots and sweet potatoes 
have it, but sugar beets, mangels, dasheens, and Irish potatoes have 
little or none. Spinach and grass, of course, have yellow associated 
with their chlorophyl. The carotin isolated by Steenbock did not 
serve as a substitute for the vitamine, but carotin is a very labile sub- 

' See, however, an article by Palmer, which appeared after this paper had gone to 
press, in Science, SO, 502, (Nov. 28), 1919, and which enumerates various foods with yellow 
color and without A, and with A without yellow color. 



4 THE JOURNAL OF HOUE ECONOMICS [January 

stance and may have changed chemically in the process of removal. 
"It appears reasonably safe, at least as a working hyiK)thcsis, to assume 
that the fat-soluble vitamine is a yellovs- plant pigment or a closely 
related compound." 

The stability of fat-soluble A is not nearly so great as has been thought. 
The earlier conclusion that it is stable to heat is due more probably to 
the fact that such large quantities of the vitamine-containing food 
were fed that a destruction of part of it would not be noted. Steenbock, 
Boutwell and Kent (4) have found that after butter fat had been heated 
for four hours at 100° its growth-promoting properties had largely dis- 
appeared, and after one hour at 100° they had distinctly lessened. 
Drummond, interested particularly in the use of hydrogenated fats as 
butter and lard substitutes during the fat shortage in England, has 
investigated the question both for whale oil and butter. The hydro- 
genation of the whale oil at 250° for four hours completely destroyed 
the A. Even heating at 100° for an hour had the same eflect, or keeping 
it for eighteen days at 37° spread out exposed to air. The heat was the 
cause of this loss of efficiency, for shaking with oxygen at room tem- 
perature made no change. Steenbock mentions a sample of butter 
which showed no demonstrable amount of A after it had been kept 
three weeks unsalted in a poorly iced refrigerator. The probability 
of some destruction during ordinary cooking processes is thus of interest. 

With cabbages (15), too, high temperatures or drying may reduce 
the efficiency, an hour's heating at 100°-120° having no effect on A, 
but two hours at 130° destroying it completely. 

The fat-soluble vitamine therefore seems to be of even greater impor- 
tance in the diet of young and old than was formerly realized, and while 
it is more widely distributed, it is less stable than the first investigations 
demonstrated, and may be even destroyed in part at temperatures 
used in cooking. 

WATER-SOLUBLE B 

For studying the water-soluble vitamine, observations have been 
continued on the growth of rats and on the onset of polyneuritis in 
pigeons and chickens. While it is not definitely proved that these two 
methods deal with one and the same substance, the assumption that 
such is the case is usually made. A new and most promising method 
of research has just been developed by Williams (16) in the laboratory 
of Physiological Chemistrj' of the University of Chicago. Yeast (16, 



1920] PRESENT STATUS OF VITAMINES 5 

17), unlike the higher plants, cannot grow without this vitamine. There- 
fore if drops of different solutions each containing a single yeast cell 
are observed microscopically at intervals of a few hours, the growth of 
the yeast and the number of cells into which it has multiplied will 
show not only whether the solutions contain the vitamine but the relative 
quantities present. This method is of course much simpler and quicker 
than the usual feeding experiment and will probably result in a rapid 
increase in our knowledge of this vitamine. 

Water-soluble B occurs more widely in plant than in animal foods. 
Milk is by no means rich in it. Osborne and Mendel (18) found it 
necessary to give their rats at least 16 cc. per day for normal growth. 
They discuss but do not explain to their satisfaction the much quoted* 
results of Hopkins who secured remarkable growth on adding as little 
as 2 cc. of milk to a diet on which his rats were failing. They warn 
against a diet of white bread and only a little milk, or against feeding 
infants a top milk, water, sugar mixture. Muscle tissue also is low in 
this vitamine, but various other animal tissues — heart, kidney, brain, 
and liver — are satisfactory sources of supply — a distribution similar to 
that of A (9) though somewhat wider. 

An especially satisfactory statement of the occurrence of this vita- 
mine in plants, as so far known, is given by Osborne and Mendel (19) 
in the Journal of Biological Chemistry for this past August. They list 
a wide variety of plant foods, including among others seeds of cereals 
and a number of legumes, spinach, cabbage, potatoes, and carrots; 
and they add to the list, from their own recent experiments, the usual 
edible portion of the onion, turnip, beet (leaves, stem, and root), and 
tomato. A goodly number of our common vegetables have thus been 
tested for B and so far without exception everyone has been found to 
contain it— a much wider distribution than that of A . The part of the 
cereal that is rich in it is not the bran as usually supposed, so much as 
the germ, which is often removed with the bran, e.g., in rice polishings. 
Commercial wheat bran contains more or less vitamine, according to 
the amount of the germ associated with it. Of one sample tested by 
Chick and Hume (20) five and a half times as much had to be used to 
cure polyneuritic pigeons as was necessarj' when the germ was used. 
Our commercial bran is especially thoroughly "skinned" when it comes 
from large well-equipped modern flour mills (21), and therefore is of 
little value to correct the deficiency of white flour and bread. Even 

« Shennan: Food Products, 1914, p. 79. 



6 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

the yeast or the milk used in the white bread does not prevent poly- 
neuritis in pigeons (22), though the yeast delays the period of its onset. 
On the other hand, bread made from real graham flour is adequate. Of 
course these facts have important bearing upon the kind of flour most 
desirable from the standpoint of national nutrition. Vocgtlin and Lake 
in a later paper (23) say, "We believe that a product which does not 
contain any bran but does include the germ would not possess these 
objectionable features (of causing intestinal disturbances], would at the 
same time be more nutritious and would reduce greatly the possibility 
of vitamine deficiency in the modern mixed diet. " 

Yeast (10) is distinctly the richest known source of the water-soluble 
vitamine, being four times as efficient as dried spinach which ranks 
next among a group studied quantitatively. Only half as rich as spinach 
are whole wheat, soy beans, dried eggs, milk solids. Cabbage, too, is 
not so satisfactory as spinach. Wheat germ is a valuable source, and 
so are naN'y beans and peas. Immature alfalfa clover and timothy 
show decided advantage over the mature (19). This variation with age 
may apply to plant foods in general and may mean a real nutritive 
superiority for young vegetables. 

Like fat-soluble A, B is not so stable toward heat as we formerly 
supposed. McCollum's beans and peas (12), which, although heated 
for one and a quarter hours in an autoclave, still supplied all the B that 
the rat needed, were fed in large quantities, often as much as 25 per 
cent of the diet. When the food supplying B is fed in the smallest 
amount which will produce growth at all (24), it is found that heating 
above 100° does cause deterioration, and that the heated food has to be 
supplied in larger quantities than the raw food. For example, while 
wheat germ (25) heated 2 hours at 100° loses little or none of its potency, 
heated 40 minutes at 113° it loses one-half, and heated 2 hours at 118°- 
124° it may lose up to nine-tenths. These temperatures, of course, 
point to the safety of the water-soluble \itamine in our ordinary cooking 
processes, but the danger of its partial or complete destruction in com- 
mercial canning or other high pressure cooking. Tinned meat. Chick 
and Hume report, is devoid of this vitamine, a fact shown not only by 
their laboratory experiments, but by the repeated development of beri- 
beri in the British army in the Dardanelles and Mesopotamia where the 
diet for a time consisted only of white bread, tinned meat, and jam. 

The stability of B toward alkali seems to be uncertain, though here, 
too, according to Chick and Hume, the difficulties may be due to feed- 



1920] PRESENT STATUS OF VITAMINES 7 

ing such large quantities that a destruction of half or even more during 
the alkali treatment would not have noticeable effect on the animals. 
Sullivan and Voegtlin (26) of the United States Public Health Service, 
who observed several years ago that chickens developed polyneuritis 
promptly on com bread made with soda but not on corn bread made 
with salt, now report polyneuritis in cats and dogs fed meat treated with 
sodium carbonate till distinctly alkaline and then heated at 120° for 
three hours; meat heated without the alkali was still a fairly satisfac- 
tory food. Rats, however, that were fed the alkali meat lived for at 
least 110 days — a fact quoted by Osborne and Wakeman (27) to show, 
with experiments of their own, that the vitamine is more resistant to 
alkali than generally supposed. Daniels and McClurg (28) feeding 
generous quantities of navy beans, soy beans, and cabbage, found the 
diets entirely sadsfactory even when cooked for an hour and a half 
with 5 per cent sodium bicarbonate. McCollum and Simmonds (29) 
find the B in wheat germ destroyed by boiling with 0.28 per cent sodium 
hydroxide for an hour, but Osborne and Wakeman (27) find it undi- 
minished in yeast digested with tenth normal sodium hydroxide (sUghtly 
stronger than McCollum's) for two and a half hours, and then heated 
for two hours. It may be that previous extraction with ether or other 
removal of the fat lessens the stability of B (16). 

What happens in the body as a result of lack of the water-soluble B 
in the diet? McCarrison (30), working in India^ has made striking 
advances in answering this question. He has observed changes during 
life and loss in weight of organs after death in a large group of pigeons 
made polyneuritic by a diet of polished rice and later a group fed polished 
rice, butter fat to supply A, and onions for CJ^ There was little dif- 
ference between the group undergoing B starvation and that with 
general vitamine starvation. The body temperature of the pigeons 
gradually fell from a normal average of 107°F. to 98° or 99°F., showing 
a marked slowing up of metabolic processes. Digestive processes were 
greatly impaired; the starch was largely excreted unchanged. The 
different organs of the body lost weight strikingly, all except the adrenals 
which gained — thymus most, then, in order, testicles, spleen, ovary, 
pancreas, heart, liver, kidneys, stomach, thyroid, brain. The testicles 

• A fairly full abstract of the first of these papers is given in Brilish Medico! Journal 1, 
177, (Feb.) 1919, and a briefer reference to it by Le Mcr in Jaiir. Amer. Med Assoc. 73, 
1381, (Nov. 1), 1919. 

• Observe app.ircnt contradiction here with Osborne and Mendel's work with rats, prov- 
ing B in onions. McCarrison's pigeons became polyneuritic even more promptly in the 
butter-fat-onion group tlian on polished rice alone. 



8 THE JOITBNAL OF HOUE ECONOMICS [January 

lost 9.? per cent and the ovaries 69 per cent of the original weight. 
"Perhaps one of the most remarkable results of a dietary deficient in 
so-called anti-neuritic vitamine is the constant and very pronounced 
atro|)hy of the testicles in males and the similar but less pronounced 
atrophy of the ovary in females." Other investigators have noted 
similar results of vitamine star\'ation. Drummond found that when 
male rats after as short a time as 14 days on a diet adequate except 
for B were mated with females on an adequate diet no pregnancies 
resulted. 

Such degrees of atrophy in the human subject would result in sterility 
in males and in amenorrhoea and sterility in females. Human obser- 
vations are not lacking. McCarrison quotes Vedder as saying that 
beri-bcric women cease to menstruate. " War amenorrhoea " (abnormal 
cessation of menstruation) is referred to in many recent German peri- 
odicals with alarm, attributing it in part at least to defective nutrition. 
In the Charitc-Frauenklinik in Berlin it has been seven times more 
frequent than before the war.' In Belgium, too, many cases have been 
obser\cd (31). The experience of Beneaict's young men is also strik- 
ing (32). These difficulties may, of course, be due to general food lack 
rather than to the specific deficiency in B. 

Miscellaneous infections were very frequent among McCarrison's 
pigeons. The whole body was liable to be overcome by a rank growth 
of bacteria. There may be some similarity between this observation 
and the great increase in tuberculosis abroad during the war. 

The whole morbid process McCarrison believes to be due to nuclear 
starvation of all tissue cells. "Vitamines are nuclear nourishers. " 

WATER-SOLUBLE C 

The third vitamine now recognized is the antiscorbutic. The earlier 
conclusion {Zi) that scurvy is not a deficiency disease, but is due to 
constipation, has been abandoned. Its adoption probably arose from 
having a non-controlled milk intake in the diet of the experimental 
animals and therefore a slight and variable amount of the vitamine. 

With this vitamine even more than with the others, human expe- 
rience as well as laboratory experiments must be considered — both 
infantile scurvj^ and adult scurfy. Mild cases of the latter may merely 
manifest themselves in languor and depression, and severe cases in loose- 
ness and final falling out of the teeth, soreness and hemorrhages of the 

' iBrilhh Midkal Journal, Dec. 1, 1917, p. 734). 



1920] PRESENT STATUS OF VITAMINES 9 

gums, swelling of the joints, great weakness, and finally death. Degen- 
erative tooth changes are particularly characteristic of scurvy (34). 
They have been described at length in the guinea-pig and are said to be 
identical in the human subject. 

The laboratory animal most used is the guinea pig, for rats, while 
they thrive better with the antiscorbutic than without it, (35) do not 
have scurvy. The usual experimental method, carefully worked out, 
is to note the smallest quantity of experimental food which will prevent 
the onset of scurvy in the guinea pig when added to a basal "scorbutic 
diet" such as oats, hay, and autoclaved milk. 

Among the chief workers on the antiscorbutic vitamine are Hess in 
New York, Givens in New Haven and Rochester, and the group, largely 
women, at the Lister Institute of Preventive Medicine, London, — 
Harriette Chick, E. Margaret Hume, and others. The results of the 
latter were made the basis of the recommendations of the Food (War) 
Committee of the Royal Society on the prevention of scurvy in the 
army and navy (36). Three recent editorials (37) in the Journal of the 
American Medical Association summarize much of their work as 
well as that of others. 

"The vitamine is present in living vegetable and animal tissues, in 
largest amounts in fresh fruits and green vegetables, to a less e.xtent in 
root vegetables and tubers. It is present in small amount in fresh 
meat and milk, and has not been detected in yeast, fats, cereals, pulses" 
(38). It is sensitive to high temperature and destroyed "when the 
living tissue is disorganized by dr\-ing and other methods of preser- 
vation. " Orange juice has been generally recognized as one of the best 
antiscorbutics; grapes are only about one tenth as satisfactory. Orange 
peel extract is also of value. Lime juice is poor. The "lime juice" of 
the eighteenth and early nineteenth century which was responsible for 
the disappearance of scurvy- from the British navy was really lemon 
juice from the Mediterranean countries. In 1875 certain vessels on 
polar exploration changed from the old "lime juice" to the true west 
Indian lime, and scurvy broke out again with great severity. The 
Lister Institute work has shown that fresh lemon juice has about four 
times the value of fresh lime juice as an antiscorbutic and that preserved 
lime juice is almost valueless. 

Of the vegetables (39), often more readily available than the fruit and 
cheaper, raw cabbage is even better than orange juice, and the raw 
juices of swede (a kind of turnip), beetroot, and carrots are of service. 



10 THE JOURNAL OF HOUE ECONOiacs [January 

Cooking (40), however, diminishes or entirely destroys their eflBdency 
except when the vegetables (carrots) arc young (Hess). Cabbage (IS) 
cooked for one hour at 60° or twenty minutes at 90° to 100° lost about 
70 per cent of its antiscorbutic value and for one hour at 90° more than 
90 per cent. Long cooked or canned vegetables are thus of no value 
as antiscorbutics, a fact born out by human experience for many years. 
Canned tomatoes (40) seem to be an exception, possibly because of their 
acid and original richness in the substance. They have been successfully 
used as a substitute for the more expensive orange juice to prevent 
scurs'y in infants receiving pasteurized milk (41). 

Drying, too, lessens the value (42), and, still more, storage afterdrying. 
Dried vegetables and herbs have been tried in scurvy in the Army and 
Navy with no help. Dried tomatoes, however, Givens (43) found, 
still retain a significant amount of the original high antiscorbutic potency. 
Drying generally does least harm when done quickly at a low temper- 
ature (under diminished pressure) and when the vegetables dried are 
young. Dried beans, themselves valueless, develop their vitamine on 
sprouting (44). The Food (War) Committee of the Royal Society 
recommends (36) that when other antiscorbutics are not available the 
beans be sprouted and the sprouts used. Their therapeutic value was 
strikingly shown when King's College Hospital, London, with a number 
of mild cases of scurvy in soldiers from Serbia, divided its patients into 
two groups, treating thirty in one ward with 4 ounces of fresh lemon 
juice daily and twenty-seven in another with 4 ounces of dried haricot 
beans freshly germinated. Of the patients on the lemon juice 53.4 per 
cent were cured within four weeks and of those on the germinated 
beans 70.4 per cent (45). 

Potatoes contain the \itamine if not cooked too long, but as the only 
antiscorbutic the ration must be as much as fourteen ounces per man 
per day (36). In Glascow (46), recently, a poor law hospital which had 
apparently been depending largely on potatoes and had been near the 
danger line with a normal of three cases of scurvy a year, developed 
fifty cases when the lack of potatoes in the fall and winter of 1916-17 
caused the substitution of the potatoes by rice and bread. In this 
country, too, Hess (47) speaks of the development of scurvy in numerous 
institutions in the spring of 1916 after an exceptionally poor potato 
crop the previous year. In one there were more than twenty deaths, 
in another more than two hundred diagnosed cases and probably many 
latent cases which escaped observation. 



1920] PRESENT STATUS OF VITAMINES 11 

Milk (48) is of only moderate value as an antiscorbutic and loses most 
of the value when pasteurized or boiled. Commercial condensed milk 
(49) is valueless and so, too, is dried milk unless the drying is done 
very quickly, e.g., for a few seconds at 116° (Hess and Unger) (50). 
Numerous observations have been made of infantile scurvy developing 
from use of pasteurized milk and its check by the addition of orange 
juice. In this connection should be mentioned a very valuable summary, 
though without the work of the last two years — Morse's "A R6sum6 of 
the Literature of Infantile Scurvy during the Past Five Years" in the 
Boston Medical and Surgical Journal (51). An editorial in the Journal 
of the American Medical Association (52) dtes numerous recent dis- 
tressing cases of infantile scurvy abroad, for instance, in Prague in 
1917-18 when the much desired "raw" milk was often of doubtful 
"rawness," oranges had disappeared from the markets since early in 
the war, and other fruits and even most green vegetables were difl&cult 
to obtain and usually very expensive. 

Fresh meat has so little antiscorbutic value that the Royal Society 
(36) states that as much as two to four pounds daily are necessary if it 
is to be used as the chief preventive agent, and tinned meat is completely 
valueless. Dutcher, Pierson, and Blester (53) find practically none even 
in raw beef. Their laboratory experiments do not confirm Stefansson's 
remarkable report (54) of his polar experiences. His habit, and that 
of his party in the north, was to live almost wholly on seal meat and 
bear meat, using not only the muscle tissue, but liver and various other 
organs. Often they consumed raw frozen liver. They had no cases of 
scurvy on this diet. However, three men, who were separated at times 
from the main party and depended largely on some cached foods which 
they had found — flour, salt pork, butter, honey, sugar, pilot bread, pre- 
served fruit, pemmican, meat extract, dried fruit, rice, beans, and peas — 
developed serious scurvy. They were promptly cured when fed meat, 
largely raw. 

One more human scurvy experience (55) illustrates a number of the 
points so far stated. A number of camps of the South African Native 
Labour Corps were established in France during the war. The rations 
consisted of 1 pound frozen or preserved meat, 8 ounces fresh vegetables, 
and definite quantities of mealy meal(corn)or rice, bread, coffee, sugar, salt, 
margarine, and tobacco. In country depots where they could pick extra 
fruit (apples) no scurvy occurred, but in a camp when this was impossible 
40 per cent of the natives at one time showed symptoms of scurvy. The 



12 THZ JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

half pound of fresh vegetables probably allowed no margin for the 
reduction of the antiscorbutic, and yet all foods had been cooked for at 
least three hours. The chief part of the cure was to give lemon juice, 
increase the supply of vegetables and limit their cooking to forty-five 
minutes. In a camp where the scurvy was most severe and lasted 
longest it was discovered that the instruction to shorten the cooking 
period had been disobeyed. The condition was soon improved when 
the cooking was reduced to forty minutes. 

In conclusion, it is plain that remarkable as are the advances in the 
subject, we still have far to go for anything approaching complete 
knowledge. We need more quantitative information as to the distribu- 
tion of the vitamines in foods and their resistance to all sorts of manip- 
ulations — cooking, storing, aging. We lack knowledge of the quanti- 
ties advisable for human beings of different ages. Finally, and most 
fundamentally, we yet await the isolation of the substances themselves 
in purity and the establishment of their chemical composition. 

It is very difficult to say what is the importance to the average indi- 
vidual of giving thought to these three vitamines in choosing the diet. 
Most of us probably use milk or leaf vegetables (McCollum's "protec- 
tion foods") to get an adequate supply of A, enough vegetables of all 
kinds and whole cereals to get B and enough uncooked or little cooked 
foods for C. But the occasional moderately well-to-do individual with 
dietary idiosyncracies, many persons on very limited incomes, and 
many in institutions must be close to the danger line. Probably C 
with its marked unstability to heating or dr>ang is the most often low 
in quantity, and A with its limited distribution second. It is more than 
probable, too, that all sorts of common languors and inefficiencies, and 
susceptibilities to many miscellaneous infections, are connected with 
shortage in vitamines. 

BIBLIOGR.'VPHY 

(1) Mellanby, E.: JUckeU. Lamel, London, 407 (Mar. IS) 1919. 

(2) Hess, A. F., and Unger, L. J. : Prophylactic therapy for rickets in a negro community. 

Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc, 69, 1S83, 1917. 

(3) Drummond, J. C. : Researches on the fat-soluble accessory substance. II. Observation 

on its rdle in nutrition and influence on fat metabolism. Biochem. Jour., 13, 
95, (May), 1919. 

(4) Steenbock, H., Boutwell, P. W., and Kent, Hazel, E.: Fat-soluble vitamine I. 

Jour. Biol. Chetn., 35, 517, 1918. 

(5) DRtmMOND, J. C: Researches on the fat-soluble accessory substance. I. Observa- 

tions upon its nature and properties. Biochem. Jour., 13, 81, (May), 1919. 



1920] PRESENT STATUS OF VITAMINES 13 

(6) McCoLLUM, E. v., SmMONDS, N., ants Parsons, H. T. : The dietary properties of the 

potato. Jour. Biol Chem., 36, 197, 1918. 

(7) Druumond, J. C: The nutritive value of certain fish. Jour. Physiol., 52, 95, 1918. 

(8) Halliburton, W. D., and Drummond, J. C: The nutritive value of margarines and 

butter substitutes with reference to their content of fat-soluble accessory growth 
substance. Jour. Physiol., 51, 235, 1917. 

(9) Osborne, T. B., and Mendel, L. B.: Nutritive factors in animal tissues. II. Jour. 

Biol. Chem., 34, 17, 1918. 

(10) Osborne, T. B., and Mendel, L. B.: The vitamines in green foods. Jour. Biol. Chem., 

37, 187, 1919. 

(11) Denton, M. C, and Kohman, E. : Feeding experiments with raw and boiled carrots. 

Jour. Biol. Chem., 36, 249, 1918. 

(12) McCoLLUM, E. v., SiMMONDS, N., AND PARSONS, H. T.: The dietary properties of the 

pea. Jour. Biol. Chem., 37, 287, 1919. 

(13) SuGiURA, K., AND BENEDICT, S. R.: The nutritive value of the banana. Jour. Biol. 

Chan., 36, 171, 1918. 

(14) Steenbock, H.: White com vs. yellow com and a probable relation between the fat- 

soluble vitamine and yellow plant pigments. Science, 50, 352 (Oct. 10), 1919. 

(15) Delp, E. M.: The antiscorbutic value of cabbage. I. Biochem. Jour., 12,416, 1918. 

(16) Williams, R. J.: The vitamine requirement of yeast. Jour. Biol. Chem., 38, 465, 1919. 

(17) Bachmann, F. M.: Vitamine requirements of certain yeasts. Jour. Biol. Chem., 39, 

235 (Sept.), 1919. 

(18) Osborne, T. B., Mendel, L. B., Perky, E. L., and Wakeuan, A. J.: Milk as a source 

of water-soluble vitamine. Jotir. Biol. Chem., 34, 537, 1918. 

(19) Osborne, T. B., and Mendel, L. B.: Nutritive factors in plant tissue. Jour. Biol. Chem., 

39, 29 (Aug.), 1919. 

(20) Chick, H., and Hdme, E. M.: The distribution in wheat, rice and maize grains of the 

substance, the deficiency of which in a diet cause polyneuritis in birds and beri- 
beri in man. Proc. Roy. Soc, 90B, 44, 1917. 

(21) Briggs, C. H.: The digestibility of the branny coats of wheat. Science, 50, 427, 1919. 

(22) VoECTLiN, C, Lake, G. C, and Myers, C. N.: The dietary deficiency of cereal foods 

with reference to their content in "antineuritic vitamine." U. S. Pub. Health 
Repts., 3i, 647, 1918. 

(23) Voegtlin, C, and Myers, C. N.: Distribution of the antineuritic vitamine in wheat 

and com kernel. Amer. Jour. Physiol., 48, 504 (May), 1919. 

(24) Chick, H., and Huue, E. M.: Note on the importance of accurate and quantitative 

measurements in experimental work on nutrition and acccssorj' food factors. 
Jour. Bid. Chem., 39, 203 ^Sept.), 1919. 

(25) Chick, H., and Hume, E. M.: Effect of exposure of temperature at or above 100' C. 

upon the substance (vitamine) whose deficiency in a diet causes pol>Tieuritis in 
birds and beri-beri in man. Proc. Roy. Soc, 90B, 60, 1917. 

(26) SuLLU'AN, M. X., Voegtlin, C. : The distribution in foods of the so<alled vitamines 

and their isolation. Proc. Soc. Bid. Chem., Jour. Biol. Chem., 24, XVI, 1916. ; 

(27) Osborne, T. B., Wakeman, A. J., and Ferry, E. L.: Preparation of protein free from 

water-soluble vitamine. Jour. Bio!. Chem., 39, 35 (.Vug.), 1919. 

(28) Daniels, A. L., and McClukg, N. I.: Influence of high temperatures and dilute alka- 

lies on the antineuritic properties of foods. Jour. Biol. Chem., 37, 201. 1919. 

(29) McCoLLUM, E. v., AND SiMMONDs, N. : .\ study of the dietary essential, water-soluble 

B, in relation to its solubility and stability towards reagents. Jour. Biol. Chem., 
33, 55, 1918. 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

30) McCakbison, R.: Tlie pathogenesis of deficiency disease. Indian Jour. Med. Restarch, 
6, 275 (Jan.), 1919; ibid., 6, 550 (Apr.), 1919. 

31) Belgian letter: Jour. .Imrr. Med. Assoc., 73, 1228 (Oct. 18), 1919. 

32) Miles, W. K.; The sex expression of men living on a lowered nutritional leveL Jour. 
Nervous and Menial Diseases, 49, 208 (Mar.), 1919. 

33) McCoixuu, K. v., a.su Pitz, \V.: The "vitamine" b>'pothesis and deficiency diseases. 
Jour. Biol. Cheni., 31, 229, 1917. 

34) ZaVA, S. S., AND Wells, F. M.: Changes in the teeth of the guinea-pig on a scorbutic 
diet. Proe. Roy. Soc., 90B, 505, 1919. 

35) Harden, A., and Zilva, S. S.: Accessory factors in nutrition of the rat. Biochem. Jour., 

12, 408, 1918. 

36) Memorandum on food and scurvy by the food (war) committee of the Royal Society. 

Lancet, London, 756 (Nov. 30), 1919. 

37) Editorial, Antiscorbutics. I. Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc., 73, 271 (July 26), 1919; .\nti- 
scorbutics. II. ibid, 73, 338 (Aug. 2), 1919; Scurvy in animals, ibid, 73, 1288 
(Oct. 25), 1919. 

38) Chick, H., Hume, E. M., Skelton, R. F., and Smith, A.: TTie relative content of 
antiscorbutic principle in limes and lemons. Lancet, London, 735 (Nov. 30), 1918. 

39) Chick, H., and Rhodes, M.; .^n investigation of the antiscorbutic value of the raw 
juices of root vegetables. Lancet, London, 774 (Dec. 7), 1918. 

140) Hess, A. F., and Uncer, L. J. : The scurN-y of guinea-pigs. III. The effect of age, heat 

and reaction on antiscorbutic foods. Jo-tr. Biol. Chem., 38, 293, 1919. 
^41) Hess, A. F., and Unger, L. J.: Canned tomatoes as an antiscorbutic. Proc. Soc. Exp. 

Biol. Med., 16, 1, 1918. 
'42) Delf, E. M., and Skelton, R. F.: Antiscorbutic value of cabbage. II. Biochem. Jour., 

12, 448, 1918. 
'43) GrvENS, M. H., and McClcgcage, H. B.: The antiscorbutic property of vegetables. 

I. .\n experimental study of raw and dried tomatoes. Jour. Biol. Chem., 37, 253, 

1919. 

44) Chick, H., and Delf, E. M.: The antiscorbutic value of dry and germinated seeds. 
Biochem. Jour., 13, 199 (July), 1919. 

45) Wiltshire, H. W.: Value of germinated beans in the treatment of scurvy. Lancet, 
London, 811 (Dec. 14), 1918. 

46) Editorial, Recent cases of scurvj- in Glascow. Brit. Med. Jour., 2, 28 (July 7), 1917. 

47) Hess, A. F. : R61e of antiscorbutics in our dietary. Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc., 71, 941, 1918. 

48) Chick, H., Hume, E. M., and Skelton, R. F.: An estimate of the antiscorbutic value 
of milk in infant feeding. Lancet, London, 1 (Jan. 5), 1918. 

49) Hart, E. B., Steenbock, H., Smith. D. W.: Studies of experimental scur\->'. Jour. 
Biol. Chem., 38, 305 (June), 1919. 

50) Hess, A. F., and Unger, L. J.: The scurvj' of guinea pigs. IH. The effect of age, 
heat and reaction on antiscorbutic foods. Jour. Biol. Chem., 38, 293, 1919. 

151) Morse, J. L.: Progress in pediatrics. A rfisum^ of the literature of infantile scurvy 
during the past 5 years. Boston Med. Surg. Jour., 178, 160, 1918. 

52) Editorial, Child welfare and disease under war-time food conditions in Central Europe. 
Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc, 72, 939, 1919. 

53) Dutchee, R. .\., PiERSON, E. M., A>fD BiESTER, A.: The antiscorbutic properties of 
raw lean beef. Science, 50, 184 (Aug. 22), 1919. 

54) STEFJbissoN, v.: Observations on tliree cases of scurvy. Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc., 71, 
1715, 1918. 

'55) Dyke, H. W.: Outbreak of scurvy in the South African Native Labour Corps. LanctI, 
London, 513 (Oct. 19), 1918. 



1920] rOOD SELECTION AND PREPARATION 15 

RECENT ADVANCES IN OUR KNOWLEDGE OF FOOD 
SELECTION AND PREPARATION 

MABEL T. WELLMAN 
Indiana University 

While much of the work on food reported in the last few months has 
already appeared in the Journal of Home EcoNOMics^much especially 
of that relating to food preparation^still a great deal of interesting 
information, sometimes in regard to the cooking of foods, sometimes in 
regard to food selection, is to be gleaned from studies of nutrition, 
published in more technical journals. The Science Section of the 
American Home Economics Association has made an excellent start in 
the collection and publication of the experimental work going on in the 
various universities and colleges, thereby filling an evident need and 
giving an immense impetus to further experimentation. 

In the following account, material from all sources is summarized 
from the standpoint of a special food or food principle, so that the 
results of various investigations may be related or compared. 

Bread. The question of the most economical way to use our wheat 
supply, emphasized by war conditions, has led to various studies. A 
bullerin' from the United States Department of Agriculture shows 
the effect of bran in lowering the coefficient of digestibility of an ordinary 
mixed diet. Bran bread made by the following recipe was fed, each 
subject eating almost a pound a day. Bran bread: 15 c. bran, 3f tsp. 
soda, 1| c. molasses, 3| tsp. salt, 5 tsp. ginger, 1 scant c. lard, 1| qts. 
hot water. 

Both coarse and fine bran was used. The reduction in the coefficient 
of digestibility obtained is shown as follows: 



Ordinary mixed diet. . 
Diet with coarse bran. 
Diet with fine bran . . . 



PIOTEDJ 


TAT 


CARBOHY- 
DRATE 


p€r cent 


percent 


percent 


92 


95 


97 


35. S 


93.1 


82.8 


37 


88.5 


79.8 



During the tests the amounts of feces were greater than usual whether 
the subjects were active, athletic, or sedentary in habit, some finding 

' E.vperiments on the Digestibility of Wheat Bran in a Diet Without Wheat Flour. A. 
B. Holmes, liii!!cli)i 751. 



16 THE JOURNAL OF HOUE ECONOMICS [January 

the bran decidedly laxative. Little difference was noted between fine 
and coarse bran so far as its laxative effect was concerned. Osborne 
and Mendel with coworkers' state that, except in special cases, "little 
can be gained by including bran and wheat embrj'o in the flour when 
this is used under conditions prevailing in this country. " Ky the last 
part of the statement they mean that thcdangerofvitamincdeficiency due 
to too restricted a use of highly milled flour is not a menace, with the 
food habits of our people. They add that "the by-products of milling 
will be better utilized on the farm than on the table. Moreover, since 
"about 80 per cent of the wheat kernel can be so improved in nutritive 
value by adding animal products to the diet that a much smaller amount 
of the flour will satisfy the protein needs of nutrition, it may well be 
that the use of the by-products of milling for the production of meat, 
milk, or eggs will result in a greater economy in the use of flour than if 
these were used directly for human food. " 

Meanwhile a report' from London includes figures for the digesti- 
bility of bread made ^snth wheat flour of SO and of 90 per cent extraction, 
and concludes that "breads made with 90 per cent flour are not so 
completely utilized as those made from 80 per cent flour, since when they 
are used as part of an ordinary- mLxcd diet the coefficient of digesti- 
bility of the entire diet was 94.5 per cent, in comparison with 96.4 per 
cent when breads made with 80 per cent extraction were used. The 
coefBcient of digestibility for the nitrogenous constituents of the diet in 
the case of the former is 87.3 per cent and the latter 89.4 per cent. The 
observations indicate that bread made of 90 per cent extraction had no 
ill effects upon health and will mean a gain in food value for ever>' 100 
lbs. of wheat of 13,000 total calories and 1.56 lbs. of protein." 

In connection with this report, another from a French source* is 
of interest. The workers examined microscopically both bread and the 
feces recovered after feeding bread to mouse, dog, and man, and obtained 
results that apparently show that the cell walls of the aleurone granules 
are broken in the bread and that the contents are digested. They 
suggest that during kneading and fermentation the cell walls are broken 

' The Nutritive Value of the Wheat Kernel and its Milling Products. Jour, Bid. Chen., 
37, pp. 557-601. 

' Report by Uie Food (War) Committee of the Royal Society on the Digestibility of 
Breads. Abstracted in Exp. Sla. Record. 40, p. 657. 

* Digestion of the .Meurone Cells Incorporated in Bread. Lapique and Liacre, Compt. 
Rend.Soc. Biol. (Paris), 81, pp. 217-222. 



1920] FOOD SELECTION AND PREPARATION 17 

open at points weakened by milling, exposing the contents to the action 
of the digestive juices. 

Along an entirely different line are some experiments conducted in the 
physical laboratory of the University of Washington.' It was deter- 
mined in three separate tests that bread baked in pans of different 
materials was much more readily burned in certain materials than in 
others. The bread baked in granite burned most easily; that in other 
materials in the order Hsted: Russian iron, tin, pyrex glass, alu- 
minum (unpoUshed), aluminum (polished). The oven temperatures 
were carefully controlled. 

Vegetables. Much work on vegetables has been reported, some in 
regard to food value and the effect ot cooking on food value, the rest 
on problems connected with canning. 

The theory that vegetables and fruits must be considered necessary 
to well-being, on the ground that they balance the acid-forming sub- 
stances in meat, cereals, and certain other foods, seems to be disproved. 
Lamb and Eward,* as a result of work on pigs, think "the apparent 
failure for experimental diets previously tried may be attributed to 
other causes not wholly excluded." They find that excess of mineral 
acid did not cause a significant loss of calcium, nor did it interfere with 
storage of protein. This work agrees with that reported by McClendon' 
and others, from which they conclude that there is no foundation for 
the view that the alkaline reserve of man is endangered by the acid- 
forming diets, but that such diets as usually eaten by man are deficient 
in antiscorbutic vitamines. 

Osborne and Mendel' have investigated the relative efficiency of 
foods as antiscorbutics, and conclude that dried spinach is twice as 
effective as whole wheat, soy beans, dried eggs, or milk sohds, but that 
dried yeast is four times as efficient as the spinach. Delf finds that 
the long cooking of cabbage at a low temperature is more destructive 
of the antiscorbutic xdtamine than short cooking at a high temperature, 
and points out the disadvantage of the use of the fireless cooker for such 
vegetables as cabbage and green vegetables. He also finds that such 
vegetables preserve their antiscorbutic property better if steamed 

' Bread Baking m Pans of Different Materials. Work done by Frances Heverlo. Jour. 
Home Econ., 11, p. 352. 

• The Acid-Base Balance in Animal Xutrition. Jour. Biol. Cliem., 37, pp. 317-342. 

' Effect of Diet on the Alkaline Reserve of the Blood. Jour. Biol. Cliem., 38, pp. 539-548. 
' Vitamines in Green Foods. Jour. Biol. Ckem., 37, pp. 187-200. 

• The Antiscorbutic Value of Cabbage. Biochcm. Jour., 12, pp. 411-447. 



18 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Januar>' 

rather than boiled, and believes that if they are boiled the addition of 
either acid or alkali will increase the loss of antiscorbutic properties. 
The fat-soluble vitamines seem to show greater stability when exposed 
to heat. Continuing the work. Delf and Skelton'" find that cabbage 
dried at M^C". and stored two or three weeks at ordinan,- room temper- 
ature, has lo.st 95 per cent of its antiscorbutic property, while at the 
end of 3 months it has lost nearly all of it. Plunging the cabbage into 
boiling water before dr>'ing distinctly increases the amount of anti- 
scorbutic material retained after dr}^ng. Drying and storing for two 
months also resulted in the loss of 86 per cent of the fat-soluble factor. 

Hess and Unger" declare that in dehydration "too much attention 
has been paid to the degree of the heating process and too little to the 
more important factors — the age of the vegetables, their freshness 
pre\ious to dehydration, and their manner of preservation. " In another 
article", entitled the Scurvy of Guinea Pigs, the same authors find that, 
while 35 grams of old carrots was sufficient to protect a guinea pig 
from scur\-y when used raw, after three quarters of an hour cook- 
ing that amount was insufficient, but when the test was repeated with 
freshly plucked carrots, 35 grams of the cooked carrots was sufficient 
for protection. 

In the same article the authors call attention to the value of canned 
tomatoes as a substitute lor orange juice in infant feeding, though 
boiling the tomatoes diminished somewhat the antiscorbutic potency'. 

Helen Masters" concludes that the best way to cook dry legumes, 
especially on a larger scale, is to soak them for at least four hours in 
water containing 1 per cent of sodium bicarbonate; then either steam 
them or boil them for about an hour in water containing 0.25 per cent 
salt. 

Daniels and McClurg'* warn us that "The fact that our animals 
made normal growth on rations in which the liquor from the cooked 
beans was the only source of the water-soluble \-itamine emphasized 
again the undesirability of discarding the water surrounding cooked or 
canned vegetables. This contains not only much of the inorganic con- 

» Biochfm. Jour., 12, pp. 445-163, 

" Factors .\ffecting the .\ntiscorbutic N'alue of Foods, .-1 mcr. Jour. Diseases Children, 
17, pp. 221-240. 

'« Jour. Biol. Chem., 3S, pp. 293-304. 

" .\n Investigation of Metliods Emplo>'«l of Cooking Vegetables with Special Reference 
to the Losses Incurred. Bioihem. Jour., 12, pp. 231-247. 

" .\ntineuritic Prop)erties of Foods. Jour. Biol. Chem., 37, pp. 210-213. 



1920] FOOD SELECTION AND PREPARATION 19 

stituents of the vegetables, the soluble carbohydrates, and proteins, but 
obviously much of the water-soluble food accessory as well." 

There seems to be a difference of opinion in regard to the possible 
dangers which may arise from the use of canned foods. Daniels and 
McClurg continue in the article quoted above, "The note of warning 
sounded by Chick and Hume to the effect that grave danger may attend 
the use of large amounts of tinned goods, we beheve is unfounded, at least 
from the standpoint of the antineuritic vitamine contents of the food. 
From our results as well as those of McCollum and coworkers, it seems 
improbable that in the commercial canning of foods this vitamine is 
destroyed to such an extent that too little will be included in the diet 
when the usual amount of canned food is eaten. Even if there should 
be a considerable increase in the amount of canned food consumed, we 
believe there will be still enough of the anti-neuritic vitamine to meet 
physiological requirements, provided the diet is not materially changed 
in other respects." Chick and Hume'^ reply to this disagreement 
with the opinion just quoted and object because the work was not per- 
formed quantitatively. They point out that no measure of the amount 
necessary for growth was made, nor of the exact amount oflered to or 
eaten by the rats. They believe that the amount of anti-neuritic 
vitamine in the diet was so far in excess of what was necessary that it 
could well be reduced, halved, or even quart jred by cooking and still be 
sufficient for maintenance. If this were true the results would not 
prove that the anti-neuritic vitamine was not injured by heating. 

Kurk'" describes the results of examining such vegetables as celery, 
lettuce, water-cress, green onions, and radishes, collected from stores that 
were both desirable and undesirable from the sanitary standpoint. He 
concludes that the general sanitary conditions of the store did not 
influence the bacterial count. 

The Journal of Home Economics has recently pubUshed two inter 
esting articles on canning. One reports results from the canning of 
asparagus" and suggests, among other conclusions, the addition of 
small quantities of vinegar as effective in reducing the time of processing 
necessary for the preservation of the vegetable. 

" Note on the Importance of Accurate and Quantitative Measurements in Experimental 
Work on Nutrition and Accessory Food Factors. Jour. Biol. CItcm., 39, p. 201. 

" The Bacterial Examination of Green Vegetables. Amer. Jour. Pub. Hcallh, 8, pp. 
660-661. 

" The CanninR of Asparagus. Skinner and Glasgow, Jour. Home Ecoti., 11, pp. 154-157. 



20 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

The second article gives data on the Effect of Pack and Depth of 
Water Bath upon Interior Temperature of Jars in Cold Pack Canning." 
Conclusions drawn are that the water bath should completely im- 
merse the jars; that loosely packed jars only should be used in canning 
by usual home methods; that home-canned vegetables should always 
be heated before use to avoid the danger of poisoning by the toxin of B. 
botulinus, the spores of which are exceedingly resistant to heat. 

The last statement refers to an article by Burke" in which it is 
reported that there is a difference in the powers of the spore to resist 
heat. The more resistant forms are not killed by the open-kettle method 
of canning, since spores will survive three and a half hours boiling and 
remain alive in the scum on top of the liquid even longer. Cold pack 
methods are also not effective in killing the spores; one period, even of 
five hours heating in boiling water, being insufficient for sterilization. 
Blanching in hot water does not materially injure the spore. Even 
fractional sterilization in three successive days is of doubtful value 
because the exposure to the temperature of the first sterilization period 
delays the germination of the spores so that they do not develop before 
the third period of sterilization. While pressure canning is the orJy 
method of sterilization that can be considered safe, a pressure of 5, 10 
or even 15 pounds for ten minutes will not kill these spores. A com- 
paratively long period musJbe used. It is suggested that the wisest 
way is to prevent contamination during the preparation of the material, 
since it is certain that the organisms are not present under the skin of 
perfectly sound fruit and vegetables that are not overripe. Bruised 
and partially spoiled material should never be used for canning. 
Fruits and vegetables should be thoroughly cleaned before cutting and 
hands and utensils should be clean, and flies eliminated. Each jar 
should be exaimined when opened but not tasted, since the smallest 
taste may be fatal if the poison is strong. There are three signs of 
spoilage, any one of which should cause the canned material to be 
suspected: (l) gas bubbles in jar, tops of jar blown and a squirt of 
liquid when the top is unscrewed; (2) an odor somewhat resembling 
rancid cheese; (3) a mushy or disintegrated appearance of the solid 
part of the contents. 

•* Effect of Pack and Depth of Water Bath upon Interior Temperature of Jars in Cold 
Pack Canning. Castle, Jour. Home Econ., 11, pp. 246-251. 

" Effect of Heat on the Spores of Bacillus Botulinus. Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc., 72, pp. 
88-92. 



1920] FOOD SELECTION AND PREPARATION 21 

Since the toxins can be destroyed by five minutes boiling, the material 
heated in this way just before using may be eaten without danger, 
even though the spores are not killed, since the latter are not harmful 
in themselves. Since this organism produces toxins only in material 
that has been sealed in air-tight containers for a week or more, there is 
no danger from it when fresh fruit and vegetables are eaten. Meanwhile 
Dickson" tells us that botulism is of comparatively frequent occurrence 
on the Pacific coast. 

Milk. In an article on the Milk Industry and the War, North" 
informs us that "to provide a milk supply that would furnish the United 
States with the milk required, according to the leading food chemists, 
would mean an increase of 20,000,000 dairy cows in the United States, 
or almost double the present number. " 

Moreover Overman" tells us that dairy products (milk, skim milk, 
cottage cheese, and American cheddar cheese) are to be regarded as 
among the cheapest foods of animal origin, both as to protein and total 
energy. 

Such experiments as those of McColIum, Simmonds and Parsons" 
make clear that we should demand an increase in our milk supply. 
They report: "In all cases where we have attempted to correct the 
dietary deficiency of a seed mixture by the addition of leaf only, we 
have not secured results so good as with milk, especially with such 
amounts of leaf as would be acceptable in the human diet. " Eggs do 
not furnish sufficient calcium. They also say: "From biological tests 
we now know that the proteins of pea and navy bean are worth only 
about half as much for growth in the rat as an equal amount of protein 
from one of the cereal grains, and that the latter have about one half 
the value for the conversion into the body proteins which can be shown 
for the milk protein; and again, "Both meat and eggs are more expensive 
sources of protection against faulty diet than milk." 

There are several studies of the antiscorbutic properties of roilk. 
Chick, Hume, and Skelton-'' find "that milk is a food poor in the 
antiscorbutic accessory factor, since a ration large in comparison with 
that of other antiscorbutic materials is necessary- to afford sufficient 

» Monograph from The Rockefeller Institute of Med. Research, No. 8, 1918. 

" Amer. Jour. Pub. Hcdih, 9, pp. 258-267. 

" Food Values and Dairy ProducU. 111. Sta. Circ. 235. 

" A Biological .\nal>-sisof Pellagra-Producing Diets. Jour. Biol. Chem., 38, pp. 113-147. 

" The Antiscorbutic Value of Cow's Milk. Biochem. Jour., 12, pp. 131-153. 



22 THE JOURNAL OF HOMK F.coNOMics [January 

protection from scurvy." They urge that in infant feeding when milk 
is in any way heated or dried, an additional source of antiscorbutic 
vitamine be provided. Hart, Steenbock. and Smith" find that sterilized 
milk, unsweetened condensed milk and milk powders seem to have largely 
lost their antiscorbutic properties. In this they are not in agreement 
with the British experience reported by the United States Public Health 
Service'' in the use of milk powder in infant feeding. 

Hess and Ungcr-' in discussing the possible deficiency in antiscor- 
butic vitamine of pasteurized milk, point out that much of the anti- 
scorbutic factor is lost subsequent to heating in the course of handling 
and aging, and believe that "the length of time to which it is subjected 
to the injurious environment is in general more important than the 
intensity of the process. " 

A suggestion that cows might be specially fed to produce antiscor- 
butic vitamine is interesting. Also of interest is Sugiura and Bene- 
dict's finding that a diet adequate for the production of the young and 
for growth after the eyes of the young open was nevertheless inadequate 
for proper milk production. Such a result may call for more careful 
feeding of the nursing mother. 

Fruits. Sugiura and Benedict"* find banana deficient in protein as 
well as in enough water-soluble accessory to produce either maintenance 
or growth in albino rats. It is interesting to find so many of the vege- 
table sources of protein commonly used for meat substitutes declared 
inadequate, but until we know more of their effectiveness in combina- 
tions we are not in a position to be sure of their place in the diet. A 
method of preparing banana meal is given in the Experiment Station 
Record" quoted from the South African Journal of Industry. The 
fruit is to be peeled, sliced thin with a nickel or fruit knife, and spread 
in wooden trays to dry in the sun. After dr>'ing, the material may be 
crushed in an ordinary mill or mortar and sifted through fine muslin. 
Theitncal may be used for cakes or bread by mixing with equal parts of 
wheat flour, or cooked into mush or used in pudding. Sweet potatoes, 
yams, or dasheens may all be treated in the same way. 

" Effect of Heat on the Antiscorbutic Properties of Some Milk Products. Jour. Bid. 
Chcm., 38, pp. 305-324. 

» Bui. Hyg. Lai. U. S. P. B., No. 473. 

" Factors Affecting the Antiscorbutic Value of Foods. Amer. Jour. Diseases Children, 
17, pp. 221-240. 

" Nutritive Value of Banana. Jour. Biol. Chcm., 36, pp. 1 71-189. 

» Vol. 41, pp. 64 and 65. 



1920] FOOD SELECTION AND PREPARATION 23 

Eggs. In an article'" from the laboratory of the University of 
Missouri, on The Use of Desiccated Eggs, the conclusions are drawn 
that satisfacory desiccated egg products may now be obtained and that 
these even at their present price can effect a considerable saving through- 
out the greater part of the year, but that there is not yet sufficient 
demand to make them easy to obtain in retail amounts. The bacterial 
content is not such as to make them detrimental to health when used 
in cooked food. They give highly satisfactory results in practically 
all typical foods in which eggs are used, but can not be used in 
mayonnaise dressing. 

The suggestion^' that horse serum be used as an inexpensive and 
satisfactory substitute for white of egg in cooking is not likely to meet 
with much favor in this country. 

Sugars and syrups. In an article on Factors Influencing the Amount 
of Invert Sugar in Fondant'- Daniels and Cook draw some very 
interesting conclusions. They find that in regions in which the water 
used in cooking is even moderately hard, the alkalinity may be sufficient 
to neutralize the cream of tartar called for in an ordinary recipe, and 
believe a local recipe should be formulated for such use. They suggest, 
however, that it is easier to obtain constant results in making fondant 
if glucose is added directly to the sucrose instead of depending on the 
inversion of part of the latter, for they find that when acid is present 
the length of time of cooking influences the amount of invert sugar 
obtained. 

In an article on the Acidity of Various Syrups Used in Cookery, 
Daniels and Heisig'' determined the amount of soda to be used with 
various syrups and honey. This article calls our attention to the need 
of standardization of such recipes.. 

The American Food Journal^* has an article by Dunnigan from Iowa 
State College on sugar substitutes in jelly making, and an article 
by Rucke'* of the University of Uhnois on the manufacture of Invert 
Sugar and Use of Substitutes, both of which may prove useful during 

" The Use of Desiccated Eggs. Lhamon, Jour. Home Econ., 11, pp. 108-115. 
" Utilization of Horse Senun in Human Nutrition. Cornpl. Rend. Acad. Agr. France, 
No. 29, pp. 807-810. 

" Jour. Uome Econ., 11, pp. 65-70. 
" Jour. Home Econ., 11, pp. 195-200. 
" Vol. 13, pp. 247-248. 
» Ibid, pp. 671 and 672. 



24 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS (January 

sugar shortage periods. In the latter the suggestion is made that a 
syrup made by inverting cane sugar has greater sweetening power than 
the original sugar. A definite formula, although for large scale use, 
is given. 

Waler. McCollum, et al." find that "the most important inor- 
ganic deficiency in seeds, tubers, and meat mixtures is calcium, and this 
is so pronounced that we are of the opinion that even in these human 
dietaries in which such calcium-rich foods as milk are used in fair liber- 
ality, the intake of calcium must be below the optimum, and that the 
direct addition of this element in the form of carbonate or lactate might 
be of distinct benefit in human nutrition, except perhaps in those regions 
where the water is unusually rich in calcium salts." This may prove 
a comforting suggestion to those living in hard-water regions who have 
questioned the healthfulness of the drinking water. 

Fats. Starling'' discusses the significance of fats in the diet and 
points out that while there is strictly speaking no evidence of a physio- 
logical minimum of fat required, practically a certain amount is neces- 
sary, because if the deficiency in fat is made up by carbohydrate the 
diet lacks staying power, is too bulky, and is more subject to fermenta- 
tive changes in the intestines. From statistical data given, it is con- 
cluded that fat should supply from 20 to 25 per cent of the total energy 
of the diet, but that this amount may be diminished without serious 
detriment to health, though probably not without inconvenience and 
lessened efficiency, and may be increased without interfering with 
either health or efficiency. 

There are three studies on the digestibility of fats to report. One by 
Blunt and Mallon'* was undertaken to determine the digestibility 
of bacon fat — to test the discrepancy between Rubner's figures and 
those published in the United States Department of Agriculture, Bulle- 
tin No. 310 and in the Journal of Biological Chemistry, vol. 23, p. 505. 
The coefficient was found to average 96.7 per cent but was slightly lower 
for lightly cooked and slightly higher for much cooked bacon. On the 
whole it appro.ximated the coefficient of digestibility of any other soft 
fat. In a bulletin on the Digestibility of Certain Miscellaneous Animal 
pats, Hohnes" reports work undertaken to determine the digesti- 

» A Biological Analysis of Pellagra-Producing Diets. Jour. Bid. Chem., 38, pp. 1 13-147. 
" British Med. Jour., No. 3005. pp. 165-170. Rev. in Exp. Sla. Rec., 40, p. 170. 
" Jour. Biol. Chem., 38, pp. 43^8. 
" U. S. Depi. Agr. Bui. No. 613. 



1920] FOOD SELECTION AND PREPARATION 25 

bility of the oleo oil used in oleomargarine and of the oleo-stearin used 
in miscellaneous shortening fats. He finds that, when eaten in amounts 
equivalent to the amount of butter used in the normal dietary, either 
fat is well assimilated, and should prove a wholesome source of fat for 
human consumption. 

A second bulletin^" by the same author is of interest because it 
suggests the use of oil from sources not commonly considered as com- 
mercially possible. He calls our attention to the estimate made in 
1908,, that as a by-product of peach and apricot kernels in California 
alone it would be possible to produce 210 to 420 tons of peach kernel 
oil, and 350 to 400 tons of apricot kernel oil, while in 1917 it was 
estimated that as a by-product of the tomatoes used for pulping proc- 
esses such as catsup, it would be possible to produce 343 tons of tomato 
seed oil. Holmes finds all the oils, as well as oil from cherry pits and 
melon seeds, well assimilated and of nutritive value equal to such better 
known products as cotton seed and olive oils. 

Morgan and Cozens" report work done at the University of Cali- 
fornia on fat absorption in frying. They conclude that there is a con- 
siderable variation in the amount of fat absorbed by a standard dough 
mixture, fried at a constant temperature for a fixed length of time. 
Using a recipe almost identical with that used by M. C. McKee (Fat 
Absorption in Frying Doughnuts. Jour. Home Econ., vol. 10, 
pp. 18-20), they find the fat averaging 17.4 per cent, while Miss 
McKee found 34.7 per cent, and the government figure for doughnuts 
bought at bakeries is 21 per cent. They do not find that a slight 
difference of temperature, 205° instead of 210°C., makes any difference 
in the fat absorbed, nor do their results uphold the claims of relatively 
lower fat absorption for the proprietary fats. 

» Digestibility of Some By-product Oils. U. S. Dept. Agr. Bui. No. 781. 
" Changes in the Physical and Chemical Constants of Fats used for Frying a Standard 
Dough. Jour. Home Econ., 11, pp. 394-412. 



26 THE JOURNAL OF iiouE ECONOMICS [January 

AN EXrERIMEXT IX SOCL\LIZI\G HOME ECONOMICS 
EDUCATION 

EUUA A. WINSLOW 

Secretary, CommilUe on Home Economics oj the New York Charity Orianitation Society, and 
Lecturer, Teachers College, Columbia University 

How can home economics students be brought into closer touch 
with real life problems? How can they be made to realize more fully 
the indiN-idual and social importance of home economics education? 
How can they be made to see more definitely the close relationship 
between organized social work and home economics work? How can 
they be influenced to think of home economics as a social science and 
one with social responsibilities? 

An attempt to answer these questions was made during the month 
of June by the Committee on Home Economics of the New York Char- 
ity Organization Society through its Sub-committee on Student Plans 
of which Miss Cora M. Winchell is Chairman. A special field work 
course was ofTered to properly qualified women with home economics 
training, and over forty applications were received although the dates 
of the course (June 9 to July 5) interfered with the attendance of stu- 
dents or staff members from the many schools and colleges whose aca- 
demic year ends late in June. The size of the group was originally 
limited to twenty-five, but thirty applicants were finally accepted and 
twenty-six of them completed the course. Only five of these were 
without professional experience, and the majority of the group had had 
a considerable amount either as teachers, extension workers, or dietitians. 

On Wednesday of each week the group heard talks by social 
workers and visited social agencies. On Saturday there was a round 
table discussion. On Monday, Tuesday, Thursday, and Friday the 
students were divided into groups of two or three, and each group was 
assigned to a special field work supervisor who gave each student indi- 
vidual training in the methods and principles of social case work and 
a considerable amount of experience in case work practice. The field 
work supervisors were district secretaries in the New York Charity 
Organization Society and the Brooklyn Bureau of Charities, and the 
students were given full responsibility as members of the staff of these 
organizations during their training period and their work was expected 
to measure up to the standards set for good social case work. The 



1920] SOCIALIZING HOME ECONOMICS EDUCATION 27 

particular tasks varied according to the capability of the student and 
the particular needs of the families under care, but usually the student 
was assigned to work with a small group of families presenting various 
types of social problems, and was guided in making different kinds of 
investigations and developing various constructive plans of treatment. 

A surprising thing to several of the students was the fact that not all 
people tell "the truth and nothing but the truth;" and that there is 
real need for the verification of essential kinds of information. They 
also learned the importance of searching for underlying causes rather 
than treating superficial difficulties, and came to realize the difficulty 
of securing good results in educational work in home economics when 
the main cause for low hving standards is the payment of inadequate 
wages or the lack of community responsibility for pro\'iding the essen- 
tials for wholesome living. In addition they learned to appreciate the 
value of the methods and technique which have been gradually devel- 
oped in social work, and the importance of utilizing certain of them in 
any social work in home economics. 

They also came to realize very forcibly how many families are not 
reached by the domestic science work in the upper grades of the ele- 
mentary schools and how much need there is for developing more oppor- 
tunities for people to receive instruction in simple homemaking practices, 
especially in foreign districts where people are unfamiliar with desirable 
housekeeping methods under American living conditions. 

Of greatest value, perhaps, especially in connection with home eco- 
nomics work, was the realization which came to practically all of the 
students of the importance of thinking of the influence of various social 
and economic problems, and of the various forms of organized social 
work, in the terms of their effect on individual fanuly life. Why girls 
go wrong, why men desert their families, why vocational training is 
necessary, why certain racial groups do not mix easily here in America, 
the evils of xinemployment, the long-standing effects of illness, what 
happens when the cost of living goes up and the wage remains station- 
ary, — these and many other questions became of absorbing interest to 
various members of the group when viewed from the standpoint of 
what was happening in a family in which they were vitally interested. 
The efficiency or the deficiency in the work of various types of social 
agencies became matters of considerable importance in a definite and 
personal way when considered in connection with the development of plans 
for the lessening of the difficulties encountered in a particular family. 



28 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

Each student kept a diary record of all work done, and the academic 
result for the course which was given by Teachers College, Columbia 
University, was based on this record and the grades recommended to 
the Committee on Instruction by the Committee in charge of the work. 

The course was too short to be of value as vocational training for 
social work positions, and this was not the purpose for which it was 
established. It is felt, however, that it proved itself of distinct value 
as a means of bringing students into close contact with actual home 
problems as seen by the social worker, and that it also brought them 
into close contact with the many and varied efforts required for the 
solution of these problems. It also seems to have had the very great 
value of strengthening the belief of this group of home economics women 
in the social value of the subject in which they are chiefly interested. 



THE TRAINING OF CHILDREN AS A PART OF LABORA- 
TORY WORK IN HOME MANAGEMENT 

ELIZABETH VERMILYE 
The University of Minnesota 

Under the provisions of the Smith-Hughes act, universities engaged 
in training teachers of the vocation of homemaking are required to 
provide for their students "vocational contact." That is, if these 
students are ultimately to teach the vocation of homemaking, it is 
obviously necessary that they must themselves have experience with 
that vocation. The value of home experience has been well demon- 
strated, but it is likewise well known that in too many cases girls in 
their mothers' homes are never given full responsibility, so that they 
have not had complete contact with their vocation. 

Ob\iously the college girl cannot be provided with the identical 
experience of the average homemaker. She has neither the situation 
nor the time. The thing which the colleges and universities can do is 
to put her into contact, not with the actual situation of the homemaker 
responsible for the welfare of her family, but with as many home prob- 
lems as possible, and with those problems grouped together in such a 
fashion as to provide the nearest semblance to the task of the home- 
maker. 



1920] TRAINING OF CHILDREN 29 

At the present time there are, to our knowledge, eighteen colleges 
and universities in the country offering laboratory work in home man- 
agement. Up to this time, however, the most important work of the 
household, the work around which the average household centers, has 
been omitted — the care and training of children. The time has now 
come when it seems feasible to make an application in the home man- 
agement house of the subject matter gained in child welfare courses. 

The following is an explanation of the project undertaken in the 
spring and summer quarters of 1918-19 at the University of Minnesota. 

The University of Minnesota conducts two home management houses 
in connection with its Division of Home Economics. Under the project 
for adding the training of children to the course, a child was taken into 
each house, the entire care being placed in the hands of the students, 
under the superxision of the instructor. 

THE PROBLEM 

The Object. The work was undertaken (1) to show that labora- 
tory work in the care of children can be fitted into a college program; 
(2) to demonstrate methods of child care, both physical and mental, 
which are known to result in the well-being and development of the 
child ; and (3) to work out some management problems involved in the 
care of children. 

The babies. The children were two boys, Russell, aged thirteen 
months, and Earl, aged twenty-one months. Both had been in baby 
homes since birth. They were taken because they were two for whom 
the arrangements could be made easily. The cooperation of the home 
authorities was easily secured. 

Cooperation of other sections and departments. Although the problem 
was mainly one of management, it was recognized from the beginning 
that the project was undertaken by the Division as a whole. Thus, 
the clothing section cooperated in making clothing and a clothing 
budget; the instructor in home nursing gave the initial demonstrations 
of the best methods of physical care. The Division of Pediatrics in the 
College of Medicine cooperated by giving the babies an examination in 
clinic. 

Adjustment to the college program. Each girl, in rotation, carried the 
work of "baby manager" for one week. Toward the close of the course 
each girl had another period with the same responsibility. The "baby 
manager" assumed the entire responsibility for the care of the child 



30 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

during her period. She herself did the actual work of caring for him 
between the hours of 6.0() to 8.00 a.m. and from 4.30 to 6.00 p.m. 
During the day the child was in the care of three or four other students 
during the time they were not in class, the manager making the program 
for this care, giving instructions regarding food and other matters 
needing attention. The baby manager did the baby's laundry work. 
One difliculty in the program should be noted. There were 3 
periods per week when all the students in both groups were in the same 
class; 3 other periods when all the students and one instructor were in 
the same class. In the first case the instructors took care of the chil- 
dren; in the latter, assistance from students not in the working group 
was used. 

BIETHODS OF CARE EJCLOYED 
Daily prop am 

Russell Earl 

Waken 6:30 Waken 6:00 

Breakfast 6:30-7:30 Breakfast 6«)- 6:00 

Quiet play in crib 7:30-8.30 Quiet play in crib. . . 6.30-7:30 

Bath 8:30- 8:50 Bath 7:30- 8:00 

Play 8:50-9:30 Play, ride 8;00-n«0 

Sleep 9:30-12:00 Dinner 11:00-12:00 

Dinner 12:00- lOO Sleep 12fl0- 300 

PIay,ride IflO- SflO Play, ride 3-00- SKX) 

Supper 5:00- 6:00 Supper 5KX)- 6:00 

Bed 6:00 Bed 6:00 

Food. Russell: age thirteen months; weight 15 pounds, 9 ounces at 
beginning. Special dietary needs: diet to overcome rickets and eczema; 
liberal in quantity to correct underweight. The following shows the 
kinds given daily, except as noted: 

Milk (skimmed), one pint. 

Toast, crackers, both white and graham. 

Cereal thoroughly cooked but not strained. 

Fruit juice and pulp, two kinds each day, especially orange juice and prune 

pulp. 
Potatoes, mashed or baked, served without butter. 
Vegetables other than potatoes, almost any kind, especially spinach, carrots, 

tomatoes. 
Meat in the form of scraped beef, veal, or chicken, two or three times per 

week or 
Eggs 2 or 3 times per week or 
Custards 2 or 3 times per week. 
Cod liver oil, 3 tsp. per day. 



1920] TRAINING OF CHILDREN 31 

Earl: age twenty-one months; weight 19 pounds, 2 ounces at be- 
ginning. Special dietary needs: diet to overcome anaemia; liberal in 
quantity to correct underweight. The diet for Earl was practically 
the same as for Russell with a few exceptions. Not having the com- 
plication of eczema he was not so closely restricted as to fat, and a little 
butter was used as seasoning; emphasis was placed on iron-containing 
varieties of fruits and vegetables; eggs were allowed two or three times 
a week in addition to the allowance of meat, and simple desserts were 
allowed daily, such as blanc mange, fruit whip, custards, gelatine. 

Play. Russell, at the age of thirteen months was very inactive and 
apparently took notice of nothing. He was content to be in his bed 
and made no effort to creep or reach for things. Gradually he came to 
take more interest as illustrated by his desire to find articles concealed 
from him, to imitate expressions and sounds, and to recognize people 
whom he knew. Progress was shown equally in his ability to creep and 
attempt to take steps. The latter was accomplished by the use of his 
bed and pen. 

Earl, at the age of twenty-one months, could walk only a few steps 
at a time, and did not know how to laugh or play; his muscular coordi- 
nations generally were poorly developed. A "kiddie car" was the 
means of teaching him to walk easily because he was so fond of pushing 
it about. Climbing on stairways and furniture, and turning somer- 
saults resulted in amazing development. After being helped to walk 
up and down stairs a half-dozen times, he chose to stop sitting down 
and propelling himself with his hands and to walk "right side up" by 
the banisters. Development in using his hands came more slowly. 
Building blocks helped; baskets or metal bowls into which he could 
put small, light objects, such as soap boxes and talcum cans, afforded 
much amusement — much more than more costly special toys. His 
development and pleasure came from being allowed to work with 
things. 

Not the least important part of his progress came from being loved 
and played with and taught the baby games. It was necessary to see 
that this was not overdone, but this took care of itself as the instructor 
and the girls became acquainted with their problem. 

Discipline. This presented no particular problem in the case of 
Russell, who was in the creeping stage. Of a naturally happy dispo- 
sition, he was pleased with any attention he received and made few 
protests. 



32 THE JOUHNAL OF HOME ECONOMCS [January 

With the older child who had a more ner\'ous disposition, and who 
was climbing about, discipline was one of the largest problems. The 
principle was adopted of giving him the greatest amount of freedom 
compatible with reasonable care of property and convenience for the 
grown people. Students and instructor together worked out the specific 
applications, as, for instance: Earl may play with wastebaskets but 
must be taught to replace anything he pulls out; he may not handle 
books and papers from any bookshelves; he may push about the wicker 
furniture, but may not handle piano nor piano stool. Whenever pos- 
sible, corrections were made by diverting his attention; sometimes he 
had to be removed bodily from the scene of trouble. 

Success in the problems of discipline was demonstrated by a consider- 
able improvement in his nervous condition effected in the first two weeks. 
Uniformity in granting privileges and imposing restrictions, and the 
prevention of over-stimulation were probably the two most important 
factors. 

MANAGEUENT PROBLEMS 

Task management, or the adjustment of work to take the least time 
and energy, perhaps came first. Factors in accomplishing this were: 

Equipment. Outside the simplest pieces, such as crib and high chair, 
no special equipment was used. Working space in the bathroom was 
improvised with an old drawing board and pads, fitted over the end 
of the tub; a paper lined grape basket held toilet articles. All of this 
was of great interest when being arranged. 

Food planning. Much of the babies' food was served from the 
amounts prepared for the family use. Only a few of the out-of-season 
vegetables were prepared separately. 

Supervision of play. Russell could be left to play alone a considerable 
part of the time and seemed better for it. Attempts at lea\-ing Earl 
entirely alone at his play resulted in disastrous bumps, or in damaged 
furniture. The method developed was to give him the toys which 
would keep him busiest and let him play alone while other work pro- 
ceeded. All kinds of housework could be done but at a much slower 
rate than normally; sewing and mending could be done at a rate nearly 
normal, also the more mechanical kinds of desk work, such as copying 
and checking. Really concentrated study was impossible. 



1920] TRAINING OF CHILDREN 33 

Time. Any figures given must be taken as approximate. In re- 
cording time, an attempt was made to separate the time when nothing 
could be done besides caring for the baby, and that in which the care 
of the baby overlapped other work. 

Time given especially to the care of the babies was subdivided 
approximately as follows, and was about the same for both babies: 

1. About three hours per day to giving meals. It must be remem- 
bered that the children were undernourished to begin with and in 
strange hands, and hence were somewhat capricious. Moreover, the 
babies' meal hours did not coincide with the family schedule as in many 
homes, and this meant an increase in time. 

2. About one half hour per day to bath. 

3. An average of about one hour to laundr}^ 

4. About one half hour to tidying rooms, bathroom, airing beds. 
Total: five hours of actual care of baby. 

Aside from the above the babies spent not over four waking hours, 
and these at play. However, even during their sleep, someone had to 
assume responsibility. Including this, there was an average of about 
five hours work per day expended by the baby manager, and an average 
of one and one-third hours per day by the assistant housekeepers, 
though usually put in in groups of three or four hours twice a week. 

It must be noted that these hours included many other activities of 
the students. From the manager's time should be deducted the time 
spent in dressing, eating breakfast and dinner, cleaning her room; also 
time for her personal relaxation in the evening, even though not com- 
pletely free from responsibility. On the other hand the draft upon an 
individual which comes from assuming responsibility cannot be com- 
puted in terms of hours. It is, however, an inevitable accompaniment 
of homemaking. 

Cost. All the large pieces of equipment were donated or loaned, 
including cribs, carriages, high chairs, toilet chair; also some clothing. 
For this reason the actual figures recorded are not significant of the 
actual cost of initiating such a piece of work. The figures for food, 
also, were extremely difficult to separate accurately, since much was 
served from the amounts prepared for the family. A weighed dietary 
study was made over a one-week period. Calculations based upon 
this, with allowances for waste indicated $25 as the approximate cost 
per quarter, twelve weeks for each child. 



34 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

CONCLUSIONS 

After one quarter and one summer session of child training as a part 
of home management work, with the opinion of four groups of students 
and four instructors, the following conclusions are unanimous: 

1. The work is of irreplaceable value because of the joy it brings to 
the house and the home spirit it creates; because of the increased range 
of vocational contact; and because it makes the house problems more 
normal in their relationships. 

2. The work is of decided benefit to both students and children.* The 
benefit to the babies is shown by a few facts taken from their health 
records : 

Russell — Gain in weight in seventeen weeks, 4 pounds, 12 ounces; 
eczema controlled; activity greatly increased, gain in height 2 J inches. 

Earl — Gain in weight in seventeen weeks, 3 pounds, 6 ounces; 
activity greatly increased; muscular coordination improved; nervous 
irritability greatly lessened; mental development advanced. 

3. The most desirable age for the babies is open to discussion. 
Children of four to six months of age to start with would give a wider 
range of problems during the year. Undoubtedly babies who could 
remain in the crib a large share of the time would be easier to care for 
under house conditions, if in good health. On the other hand, the 
experience with the active, developing small boy or girl presents a field 
all its own. 

' The examining physician at the end of seventeen weeks sununed up his opinion of the 
results thus: "The improvement in the condition of these children speaks highly for your 
cooperative motherhood." 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

COST OF LIVING' 

FLORENCE IJESBITT 
Institute Instructor in Dietetics, American Red Cross 

It is practically impossible to avoid the subject of family income 
when talking about child welfare, because it lies so close to the very 
root of all work for the interests of the child. If the income of the 
father is not enough to cover the necessities of life, does not permit a 
minimum normal standard of living then either mother and children 
are driven into industry, and home life is neglected; or else the standard 
is lowered, and we have bad housing, under-nourishment, and all the 
other hideous results of poverty. 

It is a difficult thing to give any absolutely definite figures for an 
income below which we do not dare see families fall. These last few 
years, since the rise in cost of hving has focused so much attention upon 
the subject, have, however, given us increasing confidence that we 
are able to make a fairly accurate estimate of this sort. When ap- 
proaching the problem from different points of view, we find that our 
results when trying to estimate the necessary cost of a normal standard 
of living closely approximate each other. For example, the estimate 
which the Bureau of Labor based on a large volume of statistics as to 
what people really do with their income, differs very little from the 
estimates of those of us who start from exactly the opposite end, trj-ing 
to define the elements of a normal standard, and then attempting to 
discover the cost of maintaining such a standard. 

In Chicago, those who have been working on the problem recently 
figure that it costs approximately S1500 a year to buy the essentials 
for maintaining the average family of five — father, mother and three 
children — at what we might consider a normal standard. That means, 
of course, a minimum wage of about $5 a day for the working man. 

' Reprinted from Standards of Child Welfare. A report of the Children's Bureau Con- 
ferences, May and June, 1919. 



36 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

Last fall I made an estimate of the minimum cost of living for a 
self-supporting family in Cleveland. The Bureau of Labor had at that 
time just completed their estimate which placed the cost of living for 
ship builders' families at something under Si 500 per year. My esti- 
mate was almost the same. I asked two managers of Cleveland factories 
how that compared with the wages of their men. Each one said that 
not more than 25 per cent of their people earned as much as that. 

We are so in the habit of thinking about the rather abnormally 
high wages some people have received since the beginning of the war, 
that we jump to the conclusion that the whole body of wage earners 
are earning a great deal more than they are. When it really comes 
down to figures, we find that there are large groups of workers who have 
been affected very little by these raises. In the isolated communities 
where the war industries have not penetrated, there is no increase in 
wages that even begins to cope with the increased cost of living. If we 
could raise wages to meet the increase in the cost of liNing we would be 
on solid ground, but there has never been a time when the ordinary 
wage of untrained labor covered adequate living. In 1914, when the 
unskilled wage was about $2 a day, it took at least $75 a month to cover 
the every-day requirements of decent living. 

So there seem only three ways out of the difficulty: The cost of living 
must come down; or there must be a nationalization of financial 
responsibility which will relieve the individual family of a portion of the 
cost which they must now bear; or wages must rise to cover the cost of 
living; so that every child may have his adequate opportunity for normal 
development. 



TO COOK PRUNES WITHOUT HEAT OR SUGAR 

Wash prunes well; throw the water away. Pour over them boiling 
water; let stand for three minutes. Pour this water ofl. Barely cover 
with cold water; let stand for twenty-four hours. The result will be a 
deliciously cooked prune with rich juice. 



1920] CARD SYSTEM OF HOITSEHOtD ACCOtJNTING 37 

A CARD SYSTEM OF HOUSEHOLD ACCOUNTING 

ELLA KAISER CARRUTH 

For many years woman has been exhorted from the platform and 
from the printed page to put her housekeeping on as businesslike a basis 
as her husband puts his afifairs. Now what is more businesslike than a 
card index, unless it be a check book? Why not, then, at least begin 
to put up a business-like appearance by using them both? And using 
them as a part of a "system of household accounting" certainly has the 
true ring of administrative efiSciency ! 

Two cards and a check book will do as a starter for the system, although 
a third, fourth, or n"" card may be added as the zeal for detail increases. 
And after all of these are filled, may come the most absorbing of all — 
the "human interest" card. Consideration of that, the best, shall be 
saved till last, as the children say. 

On the check book stubs are, of course, the records of any large 
expenditures. There too are found such items as "Cash $10.00." 

With this latter entry the first of the cards is also concerned. On 
this card, with day-book ruHngs (see fig. 1) is recorded every cent of 
cash which goes into and comes out of the household purse. In the 
wide column to the right of the date are entered the sources of supply, 
followed in each case, in the first cash columns, by the amount received. 
On other lines in this same wide column are noted the names of articles 
for which cash (never checks) has been paid, the amount following in 
the last two cash columns. There it is in a nutshell; what has come in 
and what has gone out. 

The "Balances" with amounts in brackets are merely partial balances. 
They are figured out every few days and compared with the "money 
in thy purse." This is an ounce of prevention which obviates serious 
discrepancies on the day of fijial reckoning at the end of the month. 
When that day comes, the difference between the sum of the money 
spent and that received should equal the amount of cash on hand. 

Assuming that it does, and that recourse to a large "sundries" item 
has been unnecessary, the household administrator may proceed to the 
filling out of a general summary card. Details for the summarj^ are 
culled from the check stubs and from the cash account card under 
various headings. Those suggested in figure 2 are of fairly general 
application. In considering the items from the check book, the checks 
drawn to "cash" should be ignored as they are accounted for on the 
cash card. 



38 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



(January 



If the housekeeper is interested to have any sub-diN-ision on the general 
summary card itemized in more detail she has but to make use of one 
more card. Figure 3 illustrates how the details of the $50.63 spent 
for food in January may be shown. \'arious sub-headings for any of 
the other items will readily suggest themselves. 



Fig. 1. Cash Acxtount Cakd 
January 1-31,1919 



Cash on band 
Laundry 

To>-s 

Car fare 

Cream 

Dividend. . . . 

Stamps 

Dishes 

Steak 

Balance 



5 


00 




90 
40 
35 
40 


20 
21 

25 


10 


00 


1 
4 


00 
00 
80 


27 
30 


(7 


15) 









Club dues. 
Slippers . . . 
Lettuce . . . 
Theatre. . . 

Cash 

Red Cross 
Shoes 

Balance. . . 
Buttons. . . 

ToUl . . 
Forward 







1 


00 






2 


00 
15 






4 


00 


10 


00 










2 


00 






7 


00 


(I 


00) 




20 


25 


00 
80 


24 


20 



Fic. 2. Summary of Household Expenses 



January. . 
February. 



50,63 



25.10 



15.00 



10.75 



AUX>WANCK 



20 00 



20.00 



141 .4S 



Fig. 3. Food Card 



MONTH 


IHAT 


GBOCEUES 


muc 


ICE 


TOTAL 


KCHBCm 
UEAU 

ssavzo 




6.70 


37.11 


6.82 




50.63 


364 











And now for the human interest feature. Humanly speaking, few 
things are of more universal interest than meals. Next to them perhaps 
ranks social intercourse. And the meals eaten by the family and the 
social intercourse enjoyed by them individually or collectively are 
recorded on this fourth card. 



1920] CARD SYSTEM OF HOUSEHOLD ACCOUNTING 39 

One side is ruled to form a calendar for the current month. In each 
day's space three figures jotted down thus 3 indicate exactly how many 
breakfasts, lunches, and dinners were served on that day. Any 
variation from the ordinary number is explained briefly on the back of 
the card. If, for instance, there were five dinners served on a given 
day instead of the usual four, a glance at the "social register" side of 
the card reveals the fact that Uncle Sam dined with the family on that 
day. A zero in another space is explained by the statement that the 
entire family dined out on that evening. This card should be very 
popular with those who maintain that one of the chief values of a cash 
account is that it forms a diary of daily events. 

But it also serves, most prosaically, as a basis for computing the 
amount spent per person per meal. If the total number of meals served 
is transferred to the Food Card this computation is easily made. And, 
as every housekeeper knows, she must, in supplying her table, keep 
within the limits set by the expert dietetic statisticians, possibly modified 
by her own special condition and experience. Otherwise she is not a 
really business like administrator — not the kind her husband is at the 
office. 



MINIMUM WAGE 

The Massachusetts Minimum Wage Commission, in ordering a mini- 
mimi wage of $12.50 per week for experienced women workers in the 
candy trade, publish the following weekly budget as necessary for a 
self-supporting woman: 

Board and lodging S7 .00 

Clothing 2 .25 

Laundry SO 

Carfares 76 

Doctor and dentist 30 

Church • 11 

Newspapers and magazines 18 

Vacation 40 

Recreation 30 

Savings and insurance 30 

Self-improvement 15 

Incidentals 25 

$12.50 

The Commission fixed a minimum wage of SI 1 per week for experienced 
workers in the canning industry. — Industrial News Surcey. 



40 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

SHOES 

Tlu' Health Division of the Bureau of Social Education of the V. W. 
C. A. has begun a campaign of education in the matter of shoes. It 
not only hopes to prove to women and girls that the shoes ordinarily 
worn are not conducive to good posture, and consequently to good 
health, but it has enlisted the cooperation of shoe manufacturers in 
placing upon the market "approved" shoes. A list of the firms carry- 
ing "approved" shoes will be sent to each of the 1039 local associations 
in the United States. 

This is particularly welcome news to the many women who have not 
necflcd to be convinced of the need of proper shoes, but who have found 
it exceedingly difficult to obtain comfortable ones, especially if any 
regard were paid to looks. 




Can wc criticize China?' 

A leaflet issued by the United States Public Health Ser\ice called the 
"Road to Health" emphasizes the need of properly fitting shoes, and 
gives the following directions for the care of the feet: 

Exercise the toe muscles by working the toes up and down over the edge 
of a thick board 30 times daily. Stand with feet parallel and somewhat apart 
with great toes firmly gripping the ground. Without bending the knees or 
moving the feet rotate the thighs outward repeatedly. This is chiefly done 
by strong contraction of the great muscles of the back of the thigh and seat. 
Improve your general health; take general exercise to strengthen your body. 
Bathe the feet daily. See a surgeon if these simple measures are not suflicient. 
The arches found in the shops will not correct flatfoot. They merely act as 
crutches. Hammertoe, bunion, and many other defects can be corrected by 
a surgeon. Painful feet may be due to infection in tooth sockets or tonsils; 
search for such conditions should be made. Mere flatness of the foot with- 
out pain or other deformity may be of no importance. 

' Used by courtesy of the War Work Bullclin. 



1920] NOT BREAD ALONE 41 

NOT BREAD ALONE 

Menu cards have a certain fascination for most persons. They are 
usually full of possibilities, at least this is so of those which ordinarily 
come to the attention of the eating public. When a menu comes to 
light which is so meager as to be devoid even of possibilities, it is such a 
rarity that it deserves a place unto itself in the light of publicity. 

One Polish widow, with four children in a family which has recently 
come to the Federated Charities for assistance, was asked to keep a 
menu of the meals which she served her family for one week. At the 
end of the week she handed to our worker the menu, which is copied 
exactly below. 

Meals— 3-1 7-' 19 to 3-23-' 19 
Monday morning Bread with butter Thursday morning Bread with lard 

dinner The same for dinner the same 

Sopper Potatoes sopper Tomatoe soup 

Tuesday morning Ballony Frieday morning Cake 

dinner Cake Diner Bread with butter 

Sopper Potatoes Sopper rice 

Wensday morning Downuts Saturday morning Bread Just 

Dinner Harings Dinner sausage 

Sopper Macaroni Sopper potatoes 

Sunday sausage 
Dinner tomatoe soup 
Sopper the same 

Immediately upon receipt of this information our worker requested 
the dietitian of the Maryland State College of Agriculture, Extension 
Service, who is working in conjunction with one of our district offices, 
to instruct this mother in the art of buying and preparing food. The 
Polish mother was entered in a cooking class and was taught to prepare 
simple and nourishing food for her family. She was given a menu to 
substitute for her old one, and on the list of foods which she served 
during the week of March 24th, 1919, were introduced oatmeal, rice, 
biscuits, cocoa, bean soup, prunes, lima beans and cabbage, none of 
which she had known how to prepare before. In the short space of one 
week she had been taught to prepare these foods, and, more than that, 
she had learned that, while there was such an organization as the Feder- 
ratcd Charities, and such assistance to be had as she had secured from 
the trained dietitian, there was no further need for serving meals con- 
sisting of "bread just." — The Helping Hand, The Federated Charities 
of Baltimore. 



42 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

EFFECT OF BEATING CAKE MADE WITH DIFFERENT 
BAKING POWDERS 

EVELYN G. HALUDAY 
The University of Chicago 

From the results of their work with cakes MiJler and Allen' concluded 
that the optimum time of beating was from one to two minutes and for 
a given recipe was dependent upon the vigor %vith which the beating 
was done. When beating was prolonged beyond the optimum time, 
cakes were heavy and inclined to tunnels. These results were ascribed 
to loss of carbon dioxide. For their work one type of phosphate baking 
powder was used throughout. 

Some recent experiments carried out in this laboratory have shown 
that the optimum time of beating varies also with the type of baking 
powder used. For these experiments one-third of the following redpe 
was used: fat { c, sugar -J c, egg 1, milk ^ c, flour, Ij c, baking powder 
3 t. of tartrate or phosphate or alum powder. 

All ingredients were weighed and combined according to the con%^en- 
tional method by creaming the butter and sugar, adding beaten egg, then 
liquid and flour with baking powder alternately. Weighed amoimts oi 
batter were baked in muffin tins of the same size and at the same tem- 
perature. One series of cakes was baked immediately, others afterbeat- 
ing one, two, three, five, and ten minutes respectively. 

With all powders it was found that cakes beaten one minute had a 
better texture than those which were unbeaten and all were quite sim- 
ilar in appearance except those made with alvmi powder. These were 
a little coarser in texture than the others. WTien phosphate cakes 
were beaten longer than one minute, tartrate longer than two, heavi- 
ness began. With continued beating heaviness was more pronounced 
and tunnels appeared. Quite different were the results with alum 
powders. With these the cakes beaten ten minutes were best, and 
were as line in texture as the best of the tartrate cakes. 

If heaviness and timnels are largely due to loss of carbon dioxide, the 
behavior of alum powders is easily explained by the fact that such 
powders do not act appreciably in the cold and consequently lose but 
little of their carbon dioxide in the process of manipulation. 

' Miller and Allen: Jour. Borne Econ., 10 (1918), no. 12, p. 542. 



1920] THE END OF AN SO-HOtTE DAY 43 

THE END OF AN 80-HOUR DAY 

A man who stayed home with the children for half a day while his 
wife did her Christmas shopping submits the following statistics: 

Opened door for children 108 times 

Closed it after them 108 times 

Tied children's shoes 16 times 

Number of stories read to them 21 

Stopped children playing piano 19 times 

Smoke rings blown to amuse them 498 

Arbitrated children's quarrel 77 times 

Put doll carriage out 28 times 

Brought doll carriage in 28 times 

Mended kiddie car 5 times 

Cautioned children about crossing street 66 times 

Children crossed street 66 times 

Peddlers rang door bell 7 times 

Toy balloons bought for children 6 times 

Average life of balloon 3 min. 

Dried children's tears 14 times 

Assisted children to blow noses 14 times 

Telephone calls answered 8 

Percentage of wrong phone numbers 100 percent 

Crackers issued to children 37 

Slices of bread and butter served 12 

Drinks of water served 9 

Refused to buy candy 87 times 

Questions about Santa Claus dodged , 1,051 

The statistician is now advertising for two nurse girls and a governess. 
— Selected. 



HIGH COST OF LIVING 



Among the angels — it's a shame 
To tell it — prices arc so dear, 
They use the blown-out candle flame 
To mend the ragged stars, this year ! 
— Mary Carolyn Davies in A Little Freckled Person — Houghton, Mifflin Co. 



EDITORIAL 

Lake Placid Conference on Group Living. Those who in past 
years have experienced the hospitality of the Lake Placid Club will be 
doubly glad to know of the proposal for another conference outlined in 
the following letter from Mrs. Dewey. 

In response to several letters asking if the spirit of the Lake Placid Con- 
ference could not be revived and an "old time rally" be held there again, an 
informal meeting was called at the Riversea branch of the Club, Old Saybrook, 
Conn., on October 24-26, to discuss plans and possibilities. Since as a result 
of war conditions and labor difficulties, the country is facing a transition 
period with a decided trend from home to institution life, there seems urgent 
need to study specially problems connected with group living. One definite 
plan that has been suggested is the organization of a Bureau of research for 
institutional economics, on similar lines to the Harvard Bureau of Business 
Research, connected with the School of Business Administration. 

It was decided to hold a conference at the Club about the middle of May 
and to invite several allied organizations to cooperate. It was suggested that 
a full day be offered to both the Institutional Economics and the American 
Dietetic Association when their Chairmen should preside and be responsible 
for their entire program; or, if they prefer, that each should select definite 
subjects for which one or more sessions be reserved, under their charge. 

With various sectional and administrative groups, working in different 
parts of the country and holding meetings at stated intervals, the chief purpose 
of such a general meeting would be to unify results, broaden the scope of 
future research and avoid duplication of work. 

Miss Emma H. Gunther of Teachers College was asked to act as Chairman 
of the general program committee, with whom allied organizations might 
confer in selecting definite topics. Open discussion after each subject pre- 
sented would give opportunity for exchange of varied experiences on a wide 
range of problems. 

The usual plan of the Lake Placid conference has been to hold morning 
and evening sessions, reserving afternoons for attractive excursions in the 
neighborhood. Regular meetings might cover four full days, or possibly 
Monday evening to Saturday morning inclusive. Those who attend could remain 
over two Sundaj-s, gaining opportunity for informal interchange of ideas and 
44 



1920] COMMENT AND DISCUSSION 45 

broadening acquaintance with workers who are widely scattered in different 
states. Because of their interest in the subject, the Club trustees offer con- 
ference members half price on both rooms and meals. 

While all questions of community service will be of interest, suggestions 
for the program are especially asked on subjects which concentrate on present 
day progress in efficient living. .\nnie Dewey. 



COMMENT AND DISCUSSION 

The Committee's Definition of Home Economics. The necessity 
for iLxing the meaning of terms in any science or argument is generally 
recognized for the purpose of outlining its iield and of preparing the way 
for further study and discussion. Out of this need arises the defiiiition. 

It was not until the year 1910 that an effort was made by a group 
of people to formulate an adequate definition of Home Economics, a 
complex subject which, within recent years, has come to have an 
important share in shaping the conditions and directing the acti\dties 
of human life. The definition proposed by the Committee appointed to 
formulate it, and accepted by the American Home Economics Associa- 
tion, performed the splendid service of summing up the knowledge of 
the subject at that time and stating it in a convenient form for preser- 
vation and future investigation. The question now proposed is, "Is 
the deHnition of Home Economics as the Committee gave it to us an 
adequate one for our present needs?" 

In the words of the Committee, "Home Economics, as a distinctive 
subject of instruction, is the study of the economic, sanitary, and 
esthetic aspects of food, clothing, and shelter as connected with their 
selection, preparation, and use by the family in the home or by other 
groups of people." 

In reflecting on the meaning of the word "sanitary" it has seemed 
that it can not be regarded as furnishing a full account of the meaning 
which should be ex-pressed. In itself it is only a fragment of the word 
which would complete the meaning. I refer to the word "hygienic." 
The question to be considered here is the question of the relation of 
sanitation to hygiene and of hygiene to sanitation. Sanitation refers 
to en\-ironment and is sometimes defined as " enwonmental hygiene," 



46 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [January 

thus indicating that it is a division of the larger subject hygiene, which, 
according to Sedg\^'ick and others, is the whole science and art of the 
conservation and promotion of health. It will be recalled that dietetics 
is also a division of the subject hygiene and deals with the individual 
and his perfection as affected by food and nutrition. As the definition 
of Home Economics now stands this phase of the food problem is not 
wholly included within its limits. 

One other point seems worthy of consideration, namely, the sodologic 
aspects of the subjects enumerated. In addition to the economic, 
hygienic, and esthetic aspects might well come the sodologic aspects 
with reference to how much protection of life and property the dtizen 
is to recdve, how good shall be the lix-ing conditions of the community, 
and other questions intimately related to the daily life of the dtizen 
as he is affected by food, clothing, and shelter, all of which is not merely 
a matter of personal hygiene, but a cooperative task of the entire 
community. 

Grace Linder, 
Ohio Slate University. 

Mercantilism is the name given to a theory of trade that prevailed 
in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries. 

Mercantilism assumed that the strength of a nation depended upon 
the stores of silver and gold that it was able to accumulate and retain. 
It followed that imports were to be discouraged by tariff restrictions 
and otherwise, and exports encouraged; to the end that money might 
flow into rather than out of the country. 

The fallacy of mercantilism consisted in regarding money alone as 
wealth and in not recognizing that other forms of capital have equal 
value. 

The finances of many a home are conducted on the mercantilist 
theory. I have known a busy mother, for instance, to spend a couple 
of hours making a child's underwaist and to pride herself on having 
saved the thirty-five cents that the garment would have cost at the 
shop. Allowing fifteen cents for materials, she has exchanged her two 
hours' work for an equivalent of ten cents an hour. It would seem that 
a resourceful woman should be able to employ her time more profitably. 
A penny saved is not necessarily a penny earned; it may be a doUar 
unearned, and therefore lost. 

Mary Barron Washburn. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



The Meeting of the American Home 
Economics Association in connection with 
the Department of Superintendence of the N. 
E. A. will be held in the Auditorium of the 
Eagle School at Cleveland, Ohio, on Feb- 
ruary 23 and 24. 

Methods and tests applicable to home 
economics teaching in the high school, and 
the newer data on child feeding, are the three 
main divisions of the program. 

The use of the project method in high 
school teaching, and applied economics in 
the one year home economics high school 
course, will be discussed under the first 
head. 

How various tests may be used as a guide 
to teachers in evaluating a home economics 
course will be the first topic under the second 
group, and this will be followed by a dis- 
cussion of some of the standard tests that 
may be applied in teaching textiles and 
clothing, and by an illustrated talk on eco- 
nomic tests for sewing in the vocational 
part-time schools. 

A report on the field work of the Children's 
Bureau will precede a practical demonstra- 
tion of the working of a feeding clinic for 
children under the general subject of child 
feeding. An exhibit of animals fed on 
different types of diet to show the effect of 
various foods on bodily growth and repair 
will emphasize the importance of proper 
food for children. 

General discussion will follow the presen- 
tation of each division of subject matter. 

The Annual Meeting of the National 
Society for Vocational Education will be 
held in Chicago, February 19 to 21, in co- 
operation with the Vocational Education 
Association of the Middle West, with head- 
quarters at the Hotel La Salle. 

The Vocational Homemaking Section 



will have programs Thursday and Friday 
mornings. 

The Home Economics Section of the 
Michigan State Teachers Association 

held a morning session at the Detroit meet- 
ing last October. 

Mr. Roy Barnes of the Educational 
Research Bureau of Detroit spoke on the 
Project Method and Mr. Stuart Courtis of 
the same Bureau talked about Educational 
Measures in Rekition to Home Economics. 
The Detroit Home Economics Association 
had arranged for a luncheon at the Federation 
of Women's Clubs, the Woman's Exchange 
catering. Miss Mary Baldwin of Grand 
Rapids, Acting Chairman, presided at the 
afternoon meeting and Mrs. Henrietta Cal- 
vin, Bureau of Education, Washington, 
D. C, gave an inspiring talk. 

A Round Table Discussion and business 
meeting followed. 

The Home Economics Section of the 
Arkansas State Teachers Association 
held a meeting at Little Rock October 31, 
Stella Palmer of FayettcviUe acting as 
chairman and Mrs. Marion Cole of Helena 
as secretary. Adelaide Baylor of the Federal 
Board spoke on Vocational Home Economics, 
answering as well the many questions that 
arose. The Course of Study was discussed 
by Mrs. Cole and by Gladys Dowell of 
Jonesboro. Bessie Peay of Little Rock 
spoke on Evening School Classes. At the 
following business meeting the section voted 
to raise a sum of money to establish a 
scholarship for some Arkansas girl who 
wishes to prepare herself to be a home 
economics teacher. 

The Home Economics Section of the 
California State Teachers Association 

held three meetings during 1919. 

47 



48 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[January 



At the first meeting a luncheon was given 
in tlic Red Cros» I.unch Room, San Fran- 
cisco. M iss Maude Murchie spoke on Voca- 
tional Education. 

The program of tlie second meeting in- 
cluded The Work of a Dietitian with the \. 
E. I'., Miss Monica Clay, Dietitian llase 
Hospital No. 30; Home Economics Courses 
in the I'ublic School, \ow and To-Morrow, 
Miss Elorencc M. La Ganke, Director of 
Home Economics, Oakland Public Schools. 

The third meeting was a luncheon and 
business meeting with an attendance of 85 
members. Six sections were organized: (1) 
home economics teachers in the elementary 
schools, (2) in the secondary schools, (3) exten- 
sion workers and teachers under the Smith- 
Hughes act, (4) supervisors of teacher- 
training classes, (5) dietitians, (6) admin- 
istrators. 

Miss Florence La Ganke, the newly ap- 
pointed director of. home economics in the 
Oakland Schools, was elected president. 

Budget Information Bureau. The 

Bureau of Home Economics in the Savings 
Division of the First Federal Reserve Dis- 
trict, which includes the \ew England states, 
is organizing budget information bureaus in 
banks, under the direction of Miss S. 
Agnes Donham, assisted by Mrs. Florence 
A. Warner. The plan is to have a 
home economics worker for one or two 
daj'S a week in an individual bank ready to 
give information on indivadual and family 
budgets and advise as to how one can 
increase one's margin for saving. Mrs. 
Warner has recently been visiting banks in 
Maine where the proposal has met with a 
very cordial welcome. In several cases the 
banks are assigning a. special clerk to be 
trained in budget conference work. Miss 
Donham has started in Boston a budget 
training class for clerks in banks. 

Fellowships. .Applications for fellow- 
ships in the University of Chicago should be 
received by the Deans of the Graduate 
Schools on or before March 1, 1920. Infor- 
mation concerning graduate work in house- 
hold administration may be obtained from 
Professor Marion Talbot. 



Notes. In 1916, the late Mrs. Lizzie 
-Merrill Palmer of Detroit provided in her 
will a fund for the founding, endowment, and 
maintenance of a school where "girls and 
young women shall be educated, trained, 
developed, aud disciplined with special ref- 
erence to fitting them mentally, morally, 
physically, and religiously for tlie discharge 
of the functions and service of wifeh.xjd and 
motherhood, and the management, super- 
vision, direction, and inspiration of homes." 
The trustees of the fund have wisely taken 
lime to seek advice from many sources. 
They have apf>ointcd an equal number of 
women as co-trustees. TTiey have studied 
the situation carefully and have persuaded 
Prof. Edna .N'. White, the president of ihc 
American Home Economics .\ssociation, to 
accept the directorship of the school as the 
very best person available. Miss White's 
resignation from Ohio State College and her 
entrance upon her new duties will take effect 
on February 1, 1920. 

Margaret Gleason, a graduate of the Uni- 
versity of Chicago with a master's degree 
from the University of California, has this 
year been appointed director of the Depart- 
ment of Household Arts at the College of 
Industrial Arts, Denton, Te.^as. 

Up to this time there have been two 
directors, one for food and one for clothing, 
but Miss (Jleason has had several years of 
successful teaching in both subjects. There 
are twenty-two teachers under her super- 
vision. Out of the 1400 students in the 
college 900 are in the Household .Vrts De- 
partment and the total class enrollment is 
1415. 

A convention of delegates from national 
women's organizations was held in New 
York from the 17th to the 24th of October, 
following the International Conference of 
Women Physicians. Miss Cora Winchell 
and Miss Isabel Lord were asked to rep- 
resent the American Home Economics 
Association. 

.•At the conference on Problems of Educa- 
tion in Mining Towns, held under the auspices 
of the United States Bureau of Education at 
Pittsburgh, November 28 and 29, one of the 
topics discussed was the education of the 
miner's wife and daughters in homemaking. 



Vol. XII. No. 2 February, 1920 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemaking, Institution Management, 
and Educational Worlc in Home Economics 

Mm. Auck p. Norton. Editor KEToaxH E. Baldwin. Busiruji EdiUr 

Rditcrial Board 
Mis. Maiy H. Abkl C. F. Lancwoethy Etbelwyn Miller Roth Wheeler Amy Dakieij 

Es-Officio Members — Edna N. Whit£, President American Home Economics Association 
Elsie Leonard, Chairman Institution Economics Section 
Katharine IIldnt, Chairman Science Section 
Mauie Hdnch, Chairman Extension Education Section 
Mabel Trilling, Chairman Textile Section 

CoUahorators — The Officers, Members of the Council, and Advisors 



CONTENTS 

A Nutrition Class M.iry Swarlz Rose and Gerlnide Gales Mudge 49 

What Constitutes Reseakcsi in Home Economics ? Minna C. Denton 58 

Dietary Studies Isabel Boner 63 

Home Project Work in Utah 67 

Suggestions for a Demonstration on the Selection of Clothing . . . Zdla E. Bigdow 69 
For the Homemaker 

A Cooperative Nursery Margarcl Goodrich Norton 73 

Women and Present Day Prices Mary Koll 75 

Egg Substitutes 77 

After the War — In Germ.vnv 79 

A Cheerful Compromise 81 

Editorial 82 

Meeting of the American Home Economics Association with N. E. A 88 

Books and Literature 89 

brblioc.raphy of home economics 91 

News from the Field 93 



Thk JoutNAL or HOHK EcoHoiacs it published monthly by the Amerjctn Home Economics Association. 

n.N A YEAR. FOREIGN {2.35. CANADIAN UM. SINGLE COPIES 25 CENT.<: 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Check, Eipress Order or Postal Money Order, payable to thi 
American Home Economics Association. Currency, unless mailed in a registered letter, is at the sender's risk. 

NOTICE. When payment is made by check no receipt will be sent unless requested. 

CHANGE IN ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent Two Weeks before the dale of issue on whick 
the change is to take effect. The subscriber's Old Address should be clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 1211 Cathedral St., Baltdiobz, Md. 

The Journal or Houz EcoMoiacs is on sale at John Wanamaker's, Philadelphia; The Old Corner Book Store, Boaloa; 
A. C, McClure's. Chicago; Baltimore News Company, Baltimore; Woodward and Lothrop, WashmgtOB 



so THE JOURNAL OF HOUE ECONOMICS [February 

By good fortune there was a group of 25 students attending the 
summer session at Teachers College admirably fitted to engage in 
this piece of social work. They had had some training in dietetics 
and were enrolled for further study of this subject. The class 
offered a splendid opportunity for practical work and the students 
entered into the spirit of it mostly heartily. Accordingly, the class 
was organized on a group plan, three children assigned to each student, 
and the students associated in groups of three, one of whom could 
always be present at the clinic to look after the nine children assigned 
to the unit. Each student made weekly visits to the homi s of the 
children entrusted to her personally, and the instructor in charge of the 
field work held conferences with the student units to discuss the 
situation of the children belonging to each unit. 

The class-room weight records pro^•ided by the Child Health Organi- 
zation were used to keep the weight records of each unit, and evcr>' week 
the child in each unit making the greatest gain received a red star on this 
class record, while each child making any gain at all received a blue star, 
and the one in the whole clinic making the greatest gain was rewarded 
with a gold star. Besides the class weight records, each student 
prepared individual weight charts in graphic form for her charges. 
These showed the normal gain to be expected for the two months and 
the actual weight week by week. The Manny table' was used in 
determining the normal gain. 

The group met once a week, the children being weighed at the 
settlement the morning of the same day. They came to the auditor- 
ium in the settlement directly from their mid-afternoon lunch. Their 
mothers were urged to attend also and many of them came regularly, 
so that there were from 20 to 25 mothers present each week. Each 
leader of a unit gathered her children and their mothers about her and 
used this opportunity to strengthen the bonds made by the home visit- 
ing. The air was charged with friendliness, and to see the big room 
full of eager children and interested mothers gathered in these little 
groups was an inspiring sight. 

When the meeting was called to order, the first number on the pro- 
gram was a short talk by the director of the clinic, stressing som.e point 
about food in relation to health. To attract the children's attention 
and serve as reminders of past lessons several of the charts prepared by 

' Sherman: Chemistry of Food and Nutrition, p. 372. 



1920] A NUTRITION CLASS 51 

the New York Association for Improving the Condition of the Poor 
were used, and also some from the National Child Welfare Association. 
The "text" of the first lesson was "Drink at least two cups of milk a 
day." One of these was furnished by the play school in the mid- 
afternoon lunch, the other the children were urged to take for break- 
fast. Each week thereafter they were questioned as to how many were 
getting the home cup of milk, how many had learned to like milk, 
and how many were trying to learn. The number of milk drinkers 
increased steadily throughout the session. Joseph F.'s mother became 
so interested in trying to make him like milk that she went of her own 
accord and bought him a new cup; and at the suggestion of the home 
visitor she added drinking straws from the soda fountain; all of which 
proved an effective incentive for Joseph. 

The second lesson laid down the law, "No tea and coffee," and 
thereafter the children were given special seals on their individual weight 
charts when they had had neither during the week. At first the use 
of tea and coffee was well-nigh universal, but by the third week many 
of the children were saying at home that they did not want them. Sam 
B.'s mother attended the clinic faithfully, although she could not speak 
English at all. Sam was addicted to coffee and it did not seem as if 
much impression could be made upon his eight-year-old self-sufSciency; 
yet by the fourth week it was gratifying to find that Sam's little sister, 
who did not come to the clinic, was beginning to get milk and Sam 
did not want any more coffee. 

The third session stressed the eating of vegetables; the fourth, chew- 
ing for the sake of the teeth, as many of the children were being sent 
to the dental clinics by the nurse assisting in the play school work; the 
fifth and sixth lessons introduced vegetables again, as these were the 
foods with which the children were least acquainted of all the kinds they 
needed. At first they very generally refused to eat them at the noon- 
day lunch. When a kind friend sent in lettuce for the children's sand- 
wiches one little girl said that she liked the bread but did not want to 
eat the flower. No such series could ignore cereals and dried fruit, 
and these were touched in the last lesson. 

Each time in connection with the lesson there was a demonstration of 
the preparation of some food which it was desirable to have the chil- 
dren learn to eat, and to have the mothers prepare for them at home. 
Cocoa was taught as an alternative to milk, and Mrs. Mary Shapiro, 
the dietitian of the Allied Hebrew Charities, very kindly came and 



52 THE jouBNAL OP HOUE ECONOMICS [February 

talked to the mothers in Yiddish, which won their hearts besides 
reaching their minds. Each child and each mother had a taste of 
whatever was prepared, so that they could compare notes and talk it 
over with the student with whom they were associated. Lack of 
parental control is so characteristic of these families that not much 
progress in food education can be made unless the mother knows that 
the child will cat the food if she provides it. The initiative has to come 
from the children themselves; what they demand they will get. The 
older children will often assume authority over the younger ones in a 
very effective way. For the chewing lesson small squares of crisp 
toast were distributed and a veritable chewing match held on the spot. 
At the same lesson milk toast was taught as a good supper dish and 
it looked like a huge picnic when "teacher" held a big bowl of the 
toast, surrounded by a dozen waving paper spoons each claiming a 
share. 

Other lessons included a vegetable salad, a vegetable soup, a stewed 
vegetable with a sauce, and a rice pudding with raisins. Mrs. Florence 
Wright, home demonstration agent of Fitchburg, Mass., very kindly 
gave the rice pudding demonstration and succeeded in making her 
audience enthusiastic over a dish that had been absolutely refused in 
the lunch room a few weeks before. Potatoes and onions were about 
the only vegetables with which the children were familiar. They 
picked the string beans out of the luncheon soup and refused utterly 
anything with carrots in it. Isadore W.'s mother said he wouldn't eat 
cauliflower or spinach unless he was spanked! But after they had 
sampled together a string bean and potato salad seasoned in the fashion 
of the Jewish home and had been induced to consume carrots by the 
mighty influence of the crowd, they behaved better toward the food in 
the lunch room. The children became interested in food that would 
make them grow, so that they might get blue and red and gold stars 
■ and thus become distinguished members of society. It takes strong 
motives to conquer food aversions! 

A lively feature of the class was this song, composed by one of the 
students and presented one verse a week, with a special chorus for the 
last meeting. 



1920] A NUTRITION CLASS S3 

CHILDREN'S NUTRITION SONG 
{Air: Keep the Home Fires Burning) 

1. We are many little children 
Who come each day to school, 
And we play and sing and are happy 
Though the days are none too cool. 
We have luncheon in the schoolhouse 
And in eating we are strong, 
We like milk and bread and pudding. 
And we sing this merry song: 

Chorus: 

Does your chart show gaining? 
Is your weight increasing? 
Though the gold star's far away 
There are red and blue. 
There's a golden lining 
Through the dark clouds shining; 
Turn the dark clouds inside out 
Till the gold shines through. 

2. We won't drink tea or coffee 
But we will drink milk instead. 
And at nine o'clock each evening 
All of us will go to bed. 

Wc will eat all that you give us, 
All we possibly can chew. 
And we'll surprise the teachers so 
They won't know what to do. 

3. Do you know that milk makes muscle? 
Beans and spinach help you grow? 

And that bright eyes, hair, and red cheeks 

Come from eating these we show? 

We are going to be strong women; 

We are going to be strong men; 

And when our country needs us 

You will find us ready then. 

Chorus Jor Last Session: 

All our charts show gaining, 
And our weight increasing; 
Some have gold stars pasted on. 
Some have red and blue. 
There's a golden lining 
Through the dark clouds shining. 
Turn the dark clouds inside out 
Till the gold shines through. 



54 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

Reports of the weekly gains in weight naturally had a prominent 
place on the program. Each leader told about the progress of her 
group and the child in each group gaining most was called to the plat- 
form and publicly congratulated. 1 he mothers were radiant when 
their children were thus rewarded. Their eyes shone and they embraced 
the returning children ecstatically. When Nellie V. gained 5 pounds 
the week after she had her tonsils out, everybody applauded; and when 
little eight-year-old Abie W., 11 pounds under weight, with three teeth 
out and a bandaged head, came up to receive a star for a half pound of 
flesh it was a great moment. 

Thus, with the food lesson, the demonstration, the individual reports, 
the song, and the food distribution, the hour was gone before anyone 
realized it. Then the children who were farthest below par in each 
group were brought to the public health nurse for inspection and 
instructions. These conferences were as helpful to the students as to the 
children. Throughout the week the students tried to follow up her 
suggestions, getting parents to consent to the removal of tonsils or 
other medical measures as well as urging the children to get to bed 
early, brush their teeth, and eat the right kind of food. 

When the class closed there were 50 children who had been in prac- 
tically constant attendance from the beginning. In age they ranged 
from six to fourteen years, the majority being nine or ten. In the 
case of 35, more or less home cooperation had been secured and here the 
best results were obtained with the children. Thirteen had had their 
tonsils out and some of these did not recuperate in time to make any 
gain in weight. Thirty-one gained over 1 pound each and 42 made 
some gain. Excluding one tonsil case, in which there was the phe- 
nomenal gain of 13 pounds, the average gain for the two months was 2 
pounds apiece for all who gained at all. Ten gained 3 pounds or more. 
At the last meeting a huge gold star was awarded to the one who had 
made the greatest gain and a copy of that attractive booklet of the 
Child Health Organization, "The Child's Health Alphabet," was given 
to the child in each group who had made the greatest gain in that unit. 
Little William C, nine years old and 7 pounds under weight, who had 
absolutely no care at home and had walked miles to attend the school 
and the clinic, received no prize, for his total gain was only half a 
pound, but when he came at the close of the session and in a pleading 
voice, with still more pleading eyes, begged for "the extra picture 
book" one's heart melted and he received it. He had never missed a 
session in spite of all his handicaps. 



1920] A NTJTRITION CLASS 55 

Of course, the credit for these results belongs to the enterprise as a 
whole and not to the class alone. The noonday lunches offered each 
child an opportunity to secure from 1000 to 1200 calories daily, if he 
would accept the food provided. Below are typical luncheon menus 
for one week, August 11 to August 15. 

Monday: lima bean and barley soup; rye bread and butter, graham 
bread and jam ; ice cream (donation) . 

Tuesday: baked beans with tomato sauce, graham muffins, rye 
bread and jam, apple sauce. 

Wednesday: oatmeal mush with raisins, r>-e bread and butter, graham 
bread and jam, stewed prunes. 

Thursday: vegetable soup, corn muffins, graham bread and jam, 
cottage pudding. 

Friday: salmon and potato loaf, rye bread and butter, graham 
bread and jam, stewed fruit. 

The mid-afternoon lunch of milk and crackers was taken by prac- 
tically every child. Joseph F. did not like the milk but he did want 
the cracker and they would not let him have the cracker without the 
milk, so he accepted the milk too. The two meals together aimed to 
furnish each child about a pint of milk daily. Fruit was quite Kberally 
supplied and vegetables were freely used in soups. Some of the 
children had little food beside what they received at school. Anna Y. 
came from a home where the mother was difficult to approach. She 
had for breakfast coffee, a roll, and sponge cake; on her way home from 
school a lollipop; and for supper, wine (often whiskey, of which her 
mother said she was very fond), and shrimp. Poor Anna, ten years 
old and 10 pounds under weight, with a generally bad physical con- 
dition, gained only three-fourths of a pound in six weeks, after which 
she was sent to the country, where it was hoped she would have better 
care. Yetta K.'s mother could not speak Enghsh, and Yetta had no 
breakfast and could not go to bed before midnight because there was 
no dark or quiet place where she could sleep until then; but Yetta 
ate heartily at the school and gained 5^ pounds in one month. In 
such cases the most valuable service rendered by the clinic was prob- 
ably helping to keep the children in school. The A-isitors over-ruled 
various objections which the children made to going to school ; found 
them companions when they did not want to come alone; reassured 
them when they feared the food because of some other cliild's remarks, 
as, for instance, that the cottage pudding had castor oil on it (for thus 



56 T1U-: JOURNAL OF HOM£ ECONOMICS [February 

many of them inlerijreted the unheard-of sauce and it had to be dis- 
continued!); and generally kept up the uncertain interest of these little 
children who received no support in their school-going from their 
homes. 

At first the clinic children generally had no appetite, as was to be 
expected. But the clinic work soon began to tell. The following is a 
typical visitor's diary record: 

End of first week: Mother is trying to get children to bed by ten o'clock. 
Is much interested and very ajjpreciative of the interest in her child. 

End of second week: Mother is trying to get them to go to bed still earlier. 
Is preparing cocoa for breakfast. 

End of third week: Mother is cooking breakfast cereal as well as cocoa. 
They are also getting fruit every morning, and the girls have both red seals 
for "no tea and coffee." The children do not like the cocoa and cereal as 
well as bread and coffee but are trying hard to learn to eat them. 

One of the most interesting family groups consisted of a mother with 
four children of her own plus a nephew who spent the day with her 
children because his mother worked away from home. The student's 
record says in part: 

July 23, 1919. I visited Mrs. F. and met her on the street. She said the 
children ate no breakfast and very little of anything which she cooked. They 
liked candy and ice cream cones which they bought on the street. They 
drank coffee and did not like milk or cocoa. I asked her when the children 
went to bed and she said they played out on the street from four-thirty, 
when school closed, until eleven or twelve o'clock at night. 

July 24, 1919. Mrs. F. seemed to enjoy the cocoa which was prepared at 
the clinic today. She observed that her children clamored for more and she 
promised to make some at home. 

July 31, 1919. I called on Mrs. F. on the day of the third meeting of the 
clinic. She was planning to attend it. She said the children had eaten 
more for breakfast this week and were liking milk better than before. She 
had made cocoa twice and the children drank it and asked for more. She 
added that the children did not want her to make coffee any more. 

August 5, 1919. I called on Mrs. F. this afternoon. N. had gone to the 
hospital to have her tonsils removed. Mrs. F. said she had made potato 
salad (potato, fish, and string beans) on Sunday just as it had been prepared 
at the clinic and the children liked it. She had bought two quarts of milk 
each day and made cocoa nearly every day. 



1920] A NUTRITION CLASS 57 

August 12, 1919. I called on Mrs. F. and found her very busy as she was 
going to have company for supper. She said she had made milk toast three 
times since the last clinic. She is now buying three quarts of milk on some 
days. The children are now going to bed at nine o'clock every night. 

After N. had her tonsils removed she gained rapidly and at the last 
meeting received the gold star for the greatest gain in weight, 13 pounds. 
Her general health was much improved. D., aged 7J, gained 5j 
pounds; A. and S., twins approaching six, remained practically in statu 
quo. Cousin J. gained 2^ pounds and is now exactly normal in weight 
for his age and height. Mrs. F. says she has less trouble in getting her 
children to eat things at home than she had before the clinic started. 
"They will eat foods now because they believe they will make them 
grow." 

In the last analysis the greatest gain came to those who shared in the 
conduct of the class. This type of work is in its infancy. We are 
especially indebted to Dr. W. H. Emerson and Dr. Charles Hendee 
Smith for demonstrating the power of group rivalry as an incentive to 
proper eating and other habits essential to normal growth of children. 
The literature of the nutrition clinics has been ably rexiewed by Miss 
Lydia Roberts, who has also reported in some detail nutrition work 
carried on by college students under her supervision.- A number of 
clinics are now maintained by social agencies in New York City at which 
the children are weighed and instructed in health duties, under the 
stimulus of class spirit as an incentive for improvement. In this par- 
ticular undertaking we were able to get a great deal of enthusiasm from 
the relatively large number of people participating. Children, mothers, 
and "teachers" filled a good-sized auditorium and this of itself was 
inspiring. The food demonstration and sampling were perhaps the most 
unique feature, and one whose value appeared to be well proved. The 
connection with the school lunch made possible a progress that was 
encouraging to all concerned and could not have been secured other- 
wise. The hearty support of the settlement staff was a large element 
in the success of the undertaking. The social visitor was unfailingly 
helpful, from the day when she introduced each trembling prospective 
visitor to her family till the day when all the prizes were awarded and 
the last child sent home. The school nurse was most sympathetic in 
her attitude and practical in her suggestions ; and the luncheon director 

* Jour. Home F.con., Jan. and Mar., 1919. 



58 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

did her best to bring about a coordination between the instruction in the 
clinic and the food provided by the school. 

Since many of the students who participated were already experienced 
home economics teachers and leaders in the communities from which 
they came, there is no doubt that this piece of field work was of value 
in demonstrating the possibilities in this kind of work, in giving them 
some first-hand experience with the organization of a health class, and 
in bringing them into direct contact with the individual home. 



WHAT CONSTITUTES RESEARCH IX HOME ECONOMICS? 

MINNA C. DENTON 
Office of Home Economics, United States Department of Agriculture 

Comparatively little has been accomplished in the way of research in 
home economics. The number of institutions in the country which 
have fostered work of a high grade, truly meriting the name of research, 
is limited. Yet the field is very large, including as it does those bodies 
of science, economics, art, and education which are or should be applied 
to home problems. The demand for more precise information than we 
now possess, in each of these realms, is urgent. 

No inconsiderable part of this demand is for answers to what seem at 
first sight, rather simple questions; e.g., a professional woman criticizes 
a thrift propagandist for condemning silk stockings and silk imderwear 
as an extravagance. In these days of impossible laundry and servant 
conditions, she argues, a woman saves both time and money by purchas- 
ing a good grade of silk and laundering it herself each night; she can thus 
make the silk hose last longer than would cotton or lisle hose purchased 
for the same money, and the tinie she spends in laundering is offset by 
the time she would have spent in mending hose sent to the laundry or 
washerwoman — supposing that a washerwoman is indeed to be had. 
"Why don't some of you home economics people fjublish a study bring- 
ing out such points?'' 

Incidentally it may be remarked that perhaps the problem is rather, 
— Does it pay better to buy an expensive grade of hose of fine texture, 
whether silk, cotton, or lisle, — and give them t!.i; daily attention 
suggested,— rather than to spend an equal amount of money in cheaper 



1920] RESEARCH IN HOME ECONOMICS 59 

and coarser weaves of the same or of other textiles, since the daily 
washing may lengthen the life of all three textile fibers equally? 

Now this would at first sight seem to be a very simple sort of study, 
and one which a freshman, or even a high school girl, ought to be capa- 
ble of making. What could be less complicated than to purchase 
representative pairs of each grade of hose, record date and price, wear 
each on alternate weeks, record dates upon which holes appear and 
time spent in laundering and mending, and let the facts speak for them- 
selves? But should such a study be considered worthy of the name of 
research? 

Let us pause a moment to consider the definitition of research. At 
least four elements must receive attention: 

1 . The problem attacked should be one of some practical interest, or 
else connected organically with that body of "pure" science which 
underlies all "practical" and other himian interests. It must be one 
which has not yet been satisfactorily or completely solved, so far as can 
be determined by a review of all available literature. 

2. The problem must be successfully analyzed; i.e., a complex situa- 
tion must be resolved into its elements. All of the variants which may 
affect the final result must be recognized ultimately, although it is often 
not possible to recognize all of them at first; yet the success of the work 
depends largely upon the skill of the investigator in recognizing as great 
a number as possible, and in planning carefully controlled tests to elim- 
inate all variants except one, in each test; the whole series to give the 
effect of each variant in turn, so far as time and resources permit. The 
plan of the experimenter should be, not to prove or to disprove this or 
that preconceived notion, but to find the truth; she must be able to 
reverse her judgment at any moment that the evidence demands a 
change of verdict. 

3. The methods used must be precise methods, and should utilize all 
known resources of science, art, technology, or economics, in so far as 
these resources can be made to apply to the matter in hand. Original 
methods may be worked out, and must be demonstrated by checking 
them against known facts. Wlien possible, more than one method 
should be used, in order to arrive at the same fact from difTerent angles. 
All materials used for experimentation must be shown to be uniform 
from time to time, and also representative of their class.' 

'For further amplification, see "What is Experimental Cookery?" Jour. Ilome Econ., 
March, 1919. 



60 THE JOURNAL OF noMK ECONOMICS [February 

4. The conclusions dtTnonstrated by the study in question should be 
precisely formulated, carefully qualified, and published (together with a 
full description of the methods) in such a medium as to be available to 
that class of persons best qualified to judge the worth of the study. 
These conclusions, even if negative, should constitute an addition to 
existing knowledge, as that knowledge is reflected in the literature of the 
subject. 

Now our problem of silk hose vs. cotton or lisle hose, or of fine expen- 
sive hose vs. cheaper coarser hose, is certainly one of practical interest. 
It has undoubtedly received attention from a great many women, and 
been satisfactorily disposed of, so far as their own personal affairs are 
concerned; but the question is, would their experience if published, be 
of real value to a considerable body of other women, or is it perhaps in 
some way exceptional? 

Secondly and thirdly, can this problem be analyzed and studied in 
any precise fashion? Are there materials at hand, fairly representative 
of the market, sufficiently standardized so that any woman wishing to 
avail herself of others' experience and reading of the study, could obtain 
substantially the same article which was studied? And is it possible to 
be sure that the tests to which one subjects these materials are always 
the same from week to week, or are about the same as the tests which 
they would necessarily encounter if put into customary use by other 
women? Here, of course, is the rub. 

In order to make sure that the materials tested are truly representa- 
tive, one would need to make a fairly complete survey of the markets 
open to that body of women whom one wishes to serve. It is not suffi- 
cient to be a good practical judge of such textile materials, — since one 
cannot demonstrate the degree of fitness as such a judge, merely by 
stating one's qualifications on the printed page. The material used 
should be specified exactly, and not as the consumer ordinarily specifies 
it. "A pair of $2.00 Asterisk silk hose, purchased at Johnson's in 
Emporia on November 4, 1918," e.g., is by no means a sufficient descrip- 
tion even though the Asterisk hose may chance to be known as a stand- 
ard make, in that part of the country. It should rather be specified 
as the wholesaler and the manufacturer specify it. How to make avail- 
able "all known resources" of information concerning a trade-marked 
article, whose manufacturers are as a rule anxious to preserve their 
secrets, is indeed a problem. Friendly retailers or buyers may give 
interesting data and many valuable suggestions, yet their unsupported 



1920] RESEARCH IN HOME ECONOMICS 61 

statements cannot always be relied upon for research purposes. Nor 
has the testing of textiles been developed to as advanced a stage as that 
of the testing of foodstuffs. Notwithstanding all these discouraging 
difficulties, however, the persevering investigator may sometimes suc- 
ceed in obtaining a reliable history which persuades her that she has a 
representative article worth studjdng; and that she can so specify it 
that other women may ask for the same thing, with a fair degree of prob- 
ability that they may obtain it through reliable dealers. 

The matter of devising a fair test of wearing qualities does not present 
formidable difficulties. It is true that S. walks at least seven miles a 
day, and T. not more than two; that M. dances a great deal, while N. 
never does; that A. has a peculiar way of setting her feet down (prob- 
ably unnoticed by herself as a causal factor applying to this problem) 
which causes her to be "very hard on her stockings;" that two succes- 
sive weeks in any person's life may show very different degrees of activ- 
ity with regard to the feet; that some shoes are much "harder on stock- 
ings" than others; that the influence of perspiring feet, of soap and of 
other laundry details, is highly variable. But the enterprising experi- 
menter will devise tests which are representative because of their selec- 
tion and numbers, and because as many conditions as possible have 
been standardized. She will not draw her conclusions from experience 
with only two pairs of hose, nor from tests carried out by a single indi- 
vidual. She will consider carefully the influence of circumstances com- 
mon in every day life, but not encoimtered in her tests; and she will 
modify her conclusions accordingly. Incidentally, she •will doubtless 
gather a considerable fund of information concerning varieties of tex- 
tiles to be encountered in her local markets; also concerning some of the 
reasons why one girl can wear her stockings twice as long as another, 
before wearing them out. These "by-products" of research are some- 
times even more valuable than the conclusions originally sought for. 

Conceivably, then, a method may be worked out for making a sys- 
tematic study of the above question precise enough for practical pur- 
poses, if a sufficiently large number of tests be made. Under these 
circumstances, the study may be suitably termed research of an order 
adapted to the undergraduate student in home economics. 

If it is desired to adapt the problem to graduate work, additional 
elements may be superimposed, whicli will call for a more precise method 
of testing, or for a more elaborate study of some single aspect of the 
question which is susceptible of more exact determination. For example. 



62 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

the edect of some of the salts found in the perspiration upon tensile 
and other properties of textile fibers, as studied by the usual machine 
and microscopic methods, may be taken up. Or possibly a method 
might be devised for studying the peculiarities of tlie muscular per- 
fonnance, in walking, of a girl who invariably wears out her shoes in 
the middle of the sole first of all, and who is correspondingly "hard on 
her stockings." Any other detail which serves to indicate degree of 
correspondence between machine testing of textiles and the test which 
they encounter in actual wear would be an equally good subject of study. 

The survey method is necessary in many studies of home problems 
in economics, as well as in other phases of our subject. The survey is 
of value only as it accurately reflects actual conditions, and in so far as 
it is truly representative of some natural group or of some locality. It 
is of no special interest to know what were the monthly grocery bills in 
seventy-five homes in a town of 1000 inhabitants, unless we have some 
way of judging which scvcnly-ftvc homes they were; whether most nearly 
representative of professional men's expenditures, of day laborers, or of 
dependent families. The banker's family may spend $100 a month for 
food, a janitor's family $25; the average of these two sums represents 
neither of these families, and nothing else under the sun that is of prac- 
tical interest. 

All the human elements which alTect the gathering of data for the 
survey must be taken into account, such as the desire of the laborer's 
wife to make it appear that her family lives well, and the consequent 
raising of her estimate; or the desire of the home-economics-trained 
housewife to make it appear that she is a thrifty manager, and the con- 
sequent selection of an estimate which is perhaps a little low rather 
than a little high. 

Research is an attitude of mind if it is anything, and the ability to 
sift critically the evidence before rendering a judgment is not only one 
of the highest attainments of the research worker, but also one of the 
most valuable of all attainments for meeting the little exigencies and 
tlie great crises of everyday life. It therefore would seem that at some 
tune before she graduates the home economics student might well be 
put up against a problem which she must work out, mthout any chance 
to "find the answer in the book." She may not make discoveries which 
greatly enhance the world's stock of knowledge, but at least she will 
have been given a fair opportunity to lose some of her undue reverence 
for the printed page; to develop the power to discriminate between 



19201 DIETARY STUDIES 63 

first-hand knowledge and hearsay testimony, whether spoken or printed ; 
a critical sense for the merits of a disputed case; the ability to exercise 
suspended judgment; and possibly she may even develop those rare 
qualities, the initiative and the insight which enable the finite human 
being to wrest some of its secrets from the great unknown. 



DIETARY STUDIES 

ISABEL BEVIER 
Professor of Borne Economics, University of H/inois 

Dietary studies carefully supervised have long been recognized as a 
valuable source of information on many points. Those made under the 
leadership of Professor Atwater brought together a vast store of infor- 
mation about living habits. Recently the United States Department 
of Agriculture has collected more data by this same method. 

It seemed to the members of the Home Economics Department of 
the University of Illinois that such studies might serve two purposes: 
first, give data regarding food supphes and living habits of students; 
second, these data might serve as a help in finding economic and prac- 
tical ways of securing an adequate diet according to accepted standards 
with present high prices. As a result, the Department is able to report 
the following. 

These studies involved some three hundred people living in sorority, 
church, and cooperative houses. The work was carried on according to 
approved methods for a seven-day period. Twelve studies in all were 
made, six of them in partial fulfillment for a master's degree.' For 
purposes of this paper, data from nine of these groups are averaged. 

Table 1 shows: a minimum cost of 37.1 cents per person per day, 
and a maximimi of 43, with an average of 40.3; a calorific value 
varying from 2038 to 3023, with an average of 2419; a protein mini- 
mum of 56.6 grams, a maximimi of 88.9, with an average of 69.5. It 
thus appears that the quantity of food is fairly satisfactory, both in 
calorific value and in the amount of protein, fat, and carbohydrate, and 

' "Dietary Studies" conducted by Mrs. Ethel C. Yunker, 1919. 



64 



TIIF. JOmKAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[February 



the cost not extravagant, though in No. 9 the 56.6 grams of protein and 
in No. 3 the 2038 calories used arc too low for the active life led by these 
students. 

TABLE 1 

Dala from mn« groupt 



HUHBn or nocsi 


COST or 
rooD rM 

PKtSON 
Prt DAY 


AVEBACK coNtmfrnoH m pbuom 

PM DAY 


CO«T OF 

WAsn 
nm ret- 

«OH 
m DAY 


corr or 

lETOlE 

PM m- 

•OH 
Tf DAY 


"OUniOt CAT*" 

PU 
PEUflH Pn OAT 




Prolcin 


Ftt 


Clrbo- 
hydrate 


Toul 
calorie* 


Calorie* 


Coit 




eenlt 


grams 


trams 


trams 




cnll 


u»ts 




mus 


1 


40.5 


76.0 


101.0 


273.4 


2306 


1.4 


3.6 


142 


9.1 


2 


37.1 


68.5 


108.8 


265.9 


2317 


0.7 


1.7 


251 


IS. 2 


3 


41.7 


65.6 


79.9 


264.2 


2038 


1.8 


3.6 


202 


10 3 


4 


43.0 


64.7 


105.1 


308.9 


2440 


1.1 


1.8 


184 


10.9 


S 


39.4 


62.8 


89.7 


270.3 


2140 


0.6 


3.0 


191 


10 8 


6 


39.5 


80.2 


120.3 


404.9 


3023 


none 


— • 


none 


none 


7 


42.1 


88.9 


113.9 


364.9 


2840 


none 


• 


• 


0.8 


8 


38.4 


62.4 


102.0 


311.0 


2412 


0.4 


— • 


• 


• 


9 


40.7 


56.6 


122,9 


230.0 


2253 


2.8 


— • 


218 


• 


Average 


40.3 


69.5 


104.8 


299.3 


2419 


1.2t 


2.7J 


170 


8.2 



•Data not available. 
tAverage for seven houses. 
jAveragc for five bouses. 

Few such studies are available for comparison. Four others have 
been selected, viz.: those made at the University of Chicago in 1896, 
involving 130 people; at Lake Erie College in 1900, with 103 people; 
and two studies at the Boston School of Housekeeping in 1901, illustrat- 
ing respectively an expensive and a low-cost dietary. Table 2 gives 
the results of this comparison. 

TABLE 2 
Comparison of studicz 



1919 
1896 
1900 
1901 
1901 



University of Illinois 

University of Chicago 

Lake Erie College 

Boston School of Housekeeping 
Boston School of Housekeeping 



NUUBEB 
PEOPLE 



COST 

PES 
PEBSON 
PEE DAY 



300 
130 

103 
16 
16 



cents 
40.3 
25.0 
18.0 
22.6 
51.1 



grams 

69.5 
108.0 
68.0 
94 
118.0 



irams 

101 
102 
115 
127 
US 



trams 
299.3 
381.0 
321.0 
317,0 
390.0 



2419 
2955 
2665 
2776 
3057 



1920 DIETARY STUDIES 65 

According to accepted standards, the amount of fat is high in all of 
the studies. The fact that the protein and the total calories at Lake 
Erie College and the University of Illinois are practically the same, 
while the present cost is more than double, is added testimony to the 
high cost of living. The high protein and carbohydrate in the Chicago 
University dietaries are noticeable and account for the high calorific 
value. The explanation for the high amount of fat in the study at Lake 
Erie College, and probably in all the studies, is due to the fact that in 
a restricted diet one always makes larger use of bread and butter. At 
present prices, if butter is used freely, it adds much to the total cost 
of the food. It may be that one permanent result of the lessened use 
of meat \\'ill be the increased use of butter or butter substitute. 

It is interesting to note that in the days of the Boston studies, 1901-02, 
the following menu could be secured for 51 cents per person per day.' 

Friday, May 2 

Breakfast. — Grape fruit, wheat breakfast food, rump steak (garnished with 
water cress), baked potatoes, buttered toast, orange marmalade. 

Luncheon. — Cream of asparagus soup, ragoGt of duck, lettuce and orange 
salad, brown bread sandwiches filled with cream cheese and water cress, 
wheat-bread sandwiches filled with cucumbers dressed with maitre d'hotel 
butter, caramel charlotte russe. 

Dinner. — Clear tomato soup, broiled mackerel garnished with lemon and 
parsley, cucumbers with French dressing, potatoes with maitre d'hotel dress- 
ing, spinach on toast, chicory salad, cheese croquettes, tutti-frutti ice cream, 
coffee. 

It is recognized in these days that an adequate diet is not translated 
fully in terms of protein, fat, and carbohydrate, that other elements 
than cost and quantity enter into dietary studies. Emphasis now is 
put upon the character of the protein and the necessity for \itamines. 
A closer study of the menus used at the University of Illinois re\'eals 
the fact that the high calories of No. 6 are due to the large amoimt of 
carbohydrates in the form of sirups, while both Nos. 6 and 7 are lacking 
in the use of fresh vegetables, and consequently in minerals and vitamines. 
Attention is called to the fact that No. 9 is excessively high in fat, 122.9 
grams, though its calorific value is not correspondingly high, due to its 

• Bulletin No. 129, Office of Experiment Stations, United States Department of Agri- 
culture, p. 22. 



66 



TIIE JOURNAL f)F HOMK ECONOSnCS 



[February 



low carbohydrate, 230 grains. Kxtremcs apparently meet in this study, 
for it is lowest in protein, 56.6 grams, lowest in carbohydrates, 230 
grams, and highest in fat, 122.9 grams. 

It seemed desirable to estimate somewhat carefully a few of the staple 
articles, such as milk, cream, butter substitutes, cooking fat, and sugar. 
While the government regulations were not in force, it is probable that 
the habits acquired were being observed because the use of sugar and 
butter substitutes was not excessive. As a matter of fact, the sweeten- 
ing was partly sugar substitutes. The almost entire absence of cream 
and the small amount of milk indicate very serious faults in the selec- 
tion of the food. A generous use of milk is a great factor of safety in 
any restricted diet; moreover it is comparatively inexpensive. 

The average consumption per person per day of some staple articles 
is given in the following table. 

TABLE 3 
Average consumption per person per day 



trnmrs of 

BOUSE 


MILK 


CKEAli 


BUTTER 
SUBSTITUTE 


FAT 


SDCAE 


KEIU1E9 




ounas 


omncei 


auHCiS 


ounces 


euncts 


»K<1 


1 


10.9 


0.8 


2.1 


0.6 


3.0 


0.2 fat drippings 


2 


8.1 


none 


1.1 


6 


2.1 




3 


9.6 


0,3 


1.9 


1.2 


2.1 




4 


2.7 


0.2 


1.5 


0.2 


1.6 


. 7 skim milk 


5 


4.0 


0.8 


1.7 


0.7 


2.2 


0.3 skim milk 


6 


5.3 


0.2 


1.6 


OS 


2.6 


0.9 skim milk 



Incidentally the study revealed some facts concerning the living habits, 
not appearing in the table; for example, only 75 per cent of these 
people appeared at breakfasts. Apparently this lack of food was not 
made up until lunch as the "outside cats" belonged to the afternoons. 

Waste is a very variable quantity, depending upon the groups studied, 
the sense of values of those responsible, as well as the eating habits of 
the individual members of the group. The refuse depends upon at least 
two factors: wise buying and careful preparation. It was a great sur- 
prise to some of the people making the studies that 32 pounds of pota- 
toes yielded 17 pounds of refuse. In the nine studies averaged, the 
figures show comparatively little waste, an average of 1.2 cents per 
person per day. However, in the groups not included in the averages, 
the amount of refuse and waste was much greater, due to at least two 
factors, both common school-girl practices, namely, irregular appear- 



1920] HOME PROJECT WORK IN UTAH 67 

ance at breakfast, and indulgence in the sundae and chocolate-bar habit. 
It took some little time, apparently, for the students to realize that sun- 
daes taken at five o'clock made meat and potatoes seem very unappe- 
tizing at six, and that it would be wiser for them not to be served meat 
and potatoes rather than thus to increase the waste. One other source of 
waste was the large amount of bread broken and left on the plates. 

"The congenial calories of the candy shop" have long been associated 
with school girls. In this particular study, it appears that the diet was 
supplemented in one case by a maximum of 250 calories, and a mini- 
mum of 142, with an average of 170, while the cost per person per day 
varied from 9 to 15 cents for the calories so obtained — not so large as 
the 10 per cent of the daily intake accredited to Vassar.' However 
neither the money value nor the calorific value is the question at issue 
here. The use of candy in the diet is the question. Often it is not a 
desirable addition because it interferes with the use of more substantial 
and more necessary food. These students need building material and 
vitamines as well as fuel, and in most cases the 10 or 15 cents which 
half the students expended on sweets might better have been contrib- 
uted, and in this instance should have been, to providing milk and fresh 
vegetables in the general dietary. An inadequate diet leaves an unsat- 
isfied craving for something, and the student is very likely to meet this 
sense of something lacking with a chocolate bar or chocolate sundae. 
In rare cases, this may be a desirable addition, but it is far more prob- 
able that a better selected dietary, eaten at the regu'ar hours, would 
have removed this unsatisfied longing. 



HOME PROJECT WORK L\ UTAH 

The home project in Utah, after some months experience, has become 
a permanent part of the school curriculum, though a year ago it 
was thought of only in the haziest possible way. The summer project, 
especially, has met with the favor of both teacher and pupil, and the 
girls are con\inced that the project idea has been a decided factor in 
making a satisfactory vacation. 

Preferably the project is a logical outgrowth of the work of the school 

« S«e Amer. Med. Jour. Oct. 26, 1918, and Jour. Home Econ., March 1918. 



68 THE JOURNAL OF HOUE ECONOMICS [February 

year. Successful projects have been carried on in sewing, dress-making 
and millinery, baking, preparation of meals, preservation of food, house- 
hold management, including actual participation in different home ac- 
ti\ities, and in money making projects including personal accounts. 
One-half to two-thirrls of the required time may be spent on varied 
household activities. The required amount of time for each project is 
150 hours, approximately equal to one-half unit credit. 

At the Granite District High School the reports of the individual stu- 
dents at their last meeting showed enthusiasm, success, and develop- 
ment. One little girl proudly recounted her troubles, which have changed 
to successes, in learning to sew. Her first dress, on which she spent 23 
hours and a bushel of tears, she considered unfit for inside inspection, 
so she wore it to the school house for the teacher to see. When the dress 
was examined it was found that the sleeves were reversed! The next 
dress was completed in eleven hours and a duplicate made for a younger 
sister in seven hours, both of them finished inside and out in a way of 
which the maker could justly be proud. Stories of equal development 
of skill were told by other girls who had taken projects in meal planning, 
marketing, and food preservation. 

In answer to the question "Will projects be equally successful if car- 
ried on parallel to the work done in school? ' ' the decided answer was, 
"No, they will not because there are so many other demands on our time 
in the winter that we cannot enjoy doing the things as we do in vacation 
time." 

Two other points seem to favor home project work during the summer. 
It is a decided bond between the girl, the mother, and the school, and it 
has some social value, especially in scattered localities where it is a 
direct means of getting girls together. This is illustrated by the 
group of girls in one district who planned and estimated caloric 
amounts and costs of food supplies for a three days' camping trip. 
They arranged and super\-ised transportation for themselves and a 
teacher and her friend who acted as chaperons, as well as for the bed- 
ding, food, and" other supplies that they had purchased or prepared. 
The management and execution of the entire outing was directly on the 
girls who were undertaking this project, and as it went oK from concep- 
tion to finish without a hitch, this training in team work, as at least one 
mother appreciated, was well worth the time of the girls. 

The work in school is carefully planned not to duplicate the work 
done during the summer. 



1920] DEMONSTRATION ON SELECTION OF CLOTHING 69 

SUGGESTIONS FOR A DEMONSTRATION ON THE SELECTION 
OF CLOTHING 

ZELLA E. BIGELOW 
Member of Committee on Standardization of Textiles, A. H. E. A. 

Many courses in household arts departments in the public schools 
and colleges have lately had their names changed. The word clothing 
has been substituted for sewing. The new name indicates a new con- 
tent in the course which in turn implies new methods of instruction. 
Taking it for granted that we shall no longer teach only se)\-ing and 
dress-making but that we shall train women, who, as consvuners, spend 
96 per cent of the amoimt spent annually in the United States for cloth- 
ing, what methods shall we follow in giving instruction in clothing 
courses? 

Teachers are everywhere presenting the subject in new and interest- 
ing ways. The foUo'n-ing plan for a lesson is the result of the experience 
of several teachers and is offered merely as a suggestion for presenting 
certain phases of the clothing problem. 

The plan is to show garments on lixdng models, really a style show 
with style in the background and with suitability, durability, and 
becomingness to the front. The following outline sets up the scheme 
for the lesson: 

Aim: To teach the selection of outer garments from the standpoints of 
suitability, durability, economy, becomingness, health, and efBciency. 

Types of garments: House dresses, school dresses, "best" dresses, party 
dresses, suits, sport clothes, coats, hats, shoes, accessories. 

Methods of procuring garments: From the wardrobes of students; borrowed 
or rented from local stores; the product of class work. 

Methods of presenting lesson: Teacher plans and conducts lesson; teacher 
plans and pupils conduct lesson; pupils plan and conduct lesson; mature pupils 
made responsible for groups conduct class as a demonstration problem. 

Points to make regarding garments: 

Suitability: (a) to circumstances, (b) to the occasion, (c) to the per- 
sonality of the wearer, (d) to purpose for which it is intended. 

Durability (length of wear): (a) material — color, weave, fiber, (b) style, 
(c) trimmings. 

Becomingness: (a) color, (b) line, (c) details — such as neck line, (d) 
trimmings. 



70 THE JOURNAL OF HOMT. ECONOMICS [February 

Economy: (a) original cost, (b) cost of upkeep, laundry, difTiculty in 
cleaning, repairing, (c) cost in relation to frequency and length of wear. 

Health: (a) hygienic properties of fibers used in materials, (b) easily 
kept clean, (c) protection against weather, (d) freedom of movements per- 
mitted. 

Kfliciency: (a) material, color, and style to permit most efilcient use of 
dress, (b) freedom of movements permitted. 

Variations of plan: Good vs. bad taste; emphasis on any particular phase 
of the subject as hygiene, thrift, costume design, simplified clothing, home 
made vs. ready-made clothing, remodeled clothing, children's clothing. 

With the cooperation of the physical training department a very good 
lesson on the hygiene of clothing could be arranged. The models 
should be clothed for dilTercnt occupations, climates, kinds of weather, 
and activities. An interesting variation of the lesson would be to have 
models of different ages, from the infant to the grandmother. 

Thrift or economy or both can be emphasized by showing garments 
requiring much and little material; garments which are suitable for 
more than one purpose; garments planned for economy of time and 
strength devoted to their making, laundering, or care; garments with 
high initial cost but no cost for upkeep, and vice versa; garments that 
will give long wear and short wear. This lesson might end vnth showing 
two models, clothed in entire wardrobes, one selected from the stand- 
point of thrift, the other with no regard for thrift. 

The lesson in which costume design is to receive the emphasis should 
be given jointly by the clothing and art departments; color, line, and 
proportion should govern the choice of garments to be shown. 

WTiere there is sufficient interest in simplified clothing, a lesson might 
present models showing difiercnt attempts to simplify dress, such as the 
Biennial Dress of the Women's Clubs, the Peter Thompson, the Hoover 
Dress, the middy blouse, or the Norfolk Jacket. The distinctive points 
of each garment and the reason for its being should be brought out. 

The question of homemade vs. ready-made clothing has not yet been 
fully solved but where any class has sufficient data to build on, a lesson 
could be planned which would teach many valuable facts. 

For remodeled clotliing, the best results would come from having 
large sketches of the original garment for comparison with the remodeled 
garment. The wearer of the remodeled garment, or whoever is giving 
the talk, should describe the original, gi\'ing date of purchase, cost, 
length of wear, method and cost of the preparation made for remodeling. 



1920J DEMONSTRATION ON SELECTION OF CLOTHING 71 

such as cleaning or dyeing, and the estimated value of the remodeled 
garment. There should be an attempt to attain as great variety as 
possible in the garments shown. 

A Children's Style Show would be particularly appealing and would 
be an excellent way of interesting the mothers. Such a lesson might 
be arranged in connection with a Child Welfare Exhibit or class. 

The choice of girls who are to wear the garments should be carefully 
made to bring out in each case exactly the desired points. Posture and 
walk should be emphasized and all details, such as what to do with the 
hands, should be taken care of so that nothing will detract from the 
desired effect. On the other hand artificiality or afTectation should be 
avoided. Music during the appearance and exit of the model is an 
improvement. The physical training department will be of great 
assistance in training the girls for this. 

The lecture or talk which accompanies the showing of garments 
should be thoroughly planned beforehand. The content of the talk 
will, of course, depend upon the particular phase which is being empha- 
sized. The following is a suggested outline built upon the subject of 
suitable clothing: 

House dresses: essential characteristics of a suitable house dress: 

Must permit freedom of motion. Skirt, short and medium width; neck, low; 
sleeves, either short or made so that they can be easily and securely rolled up. 

Must be easy to wash and iron. Color, fast to water and light; pattern, 
plain; trimmings — self trimmings, flat for ease in ironing. 

Must be durable. Material — strong, to resist wear and frequent launder- 
ings; pockets, etc. arranged to lessen likelihood of tearing in wearing or laun- 
dering. 

School or business dresses: essential characteristics of suitable school or busi- 
ness dresses: 

Must be attractive and neat. Color, becoming, preferably dark; pattern, 
simple, good lines; trimming — very little, no trimming which cannot easily be 
kept fresh and clean. 

Must be durable. Material strong, to stand constant wear. 

Party dresses: essential characteristics of suitable party dresses: 

Must be becoming. Color, lighl; material and style suited to age and 
personality of wearer. 

Durability. Party dresses do not need to be particularly durable since 
they are given only occasional wear and almost any suitable material will 
wear as long as the dress remains in style. Inexpensive materials can often 
be used to advantage in party dresses because of this fact. 



72 THE JOURNAL OF HOME Ecovouics [February 

Shoes: essential characteristics of suitable shoes: 

Must conform to the natural lines of the foot. Straight inside line; round 
toes; low, broad heel; flexible arch. 

Must be in harmony with rest of costume. Kind of leather; color. 

Stockings: essential characteristics of suitable stockings: 

Must be duraljlc; must not be too thin; must be of fiber in harmony with 
rest of costume; must fit well and be the right size for the foot. 

The model may describe her ov/n dress, or a second person may give 
the lecture. The latter plan is best in most cases. As each point is 
made it should be demonstrated if possible. Unbutton the long sleeves 
of the house dress and roll them up; unbutton the high collar and turn 
it down; have the model climb a few rounds of a step ladder or step up on 
a chair to display the suitable width of her skirt. Action makes the 
show interesting. 

The planning of the lesson and its presentation may be entirely in the 
hands of the teacher or of the students. Even grade children could 
present such a lesson and would gain much from the responsibility 
entailed. 

The lesson could be given toward the end of a course as a summary 
of what has been learned regarding clothing selection, or it could be 
given after certain phases of clothing selection have been taught. It 
is suitable for use with groups of any age. Seventh or eighth grade girls 
could conduct such a lesson. High school classes and college classes 
will be equally interested. It can be used vnth girls' garment making 
clubs, for farmers' week meetings, women's clubs, and county or state 
fairs. Every woman likes a style show and much very valuable informa- 
tion can be imparted in this way. 

In any case, it is best to use garments actually constructed by the 
group interested, as well as borrowed garments. For tliis reason, 
such a lesson fits in well at the end of a course. If there are voca- 
tional or trade departments connected with the institution, the pro- 
ducts of such classes should be used. Each girl can appear in her own 
costume, explaining her reasons for choice of material, pattern, and style. 

By borrowing from local stores and by careful choice from all avail- 
able sources, shoes, hats, and dress accessories can be included in the 
style show. Their use gives an excellent opportunity for teaching facts 
about their choice which ordinarily find no place in a clothing course. 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

A COOPERATIVE NURSERY 

MARGARET GOODRICH NORTON 
One of the Mothers 

The cooperative nursery at the University of Chicago was founded 
to meet a war-time emergency. Many of the faculty wives wished to 
do Red Cross work but could neither leave their small children at home 
nor afTord to hire nurse maids. After discussing the matter several of 
the women, under the leadership of one especially interested, decided to 
ask the University for the use of a building that had formerly been the 
Women's Gymnasium and that had not been remodeled for other use since 
the completion of the new gymnasivim. It was weO adapted to the pur- 
pose, since it had several small rooms, a large main hall, and a field 
enclosed by a high brick wall. The University not only gave the use of 
the building, for the sake of helping the Red Cross work, but supplied 
also light, heat, and janitor service. A trained kindergartner was 
engaged to be at the nursery from 9 a.m. till 12, and 1.30 till 5 p.m. on 
five days a week, and the mothers enrolled in the enterprise were assigned 
a morning or afternoon every week to act as her assistants. 

The nursery as thus organized for war work was found too valuable 
to dispense with after the war closed. It is now in its third year and has 
survived several crises, the most serious one being the taking over of 
the building to serve as a mess hall for the Student Army Training 
Corps. When it was returned to us, however, the University e.^ressed 
its interest in the plan in the very tangible and welcome fonn of installing 
toilets, low wash bowls, a bubble fountain, and various improvements, such 
as fresh paint and other needed changes. This was done with the under- 
standing that the use of the premises was to be restricted to children of 
parents connected in some way with the University. 

We have an average attendance of seventeen in the morning. These 
are usually children under kindergarten age and we supply sand pile, 
slide, and swing for outdoor amusement, and kiddy-cars, clay, toys, and 
the like for indoor fun, with a piano for nnusical games. In the after- 

73 



74 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

noon the attendance is slightly larger and the children are those who 
were in kindergarten in the morning. These children have found their 
greatest happiness in building a real playhouse in the field with real 
boards and nails. Babies are brought at all hours. Our youngest 
was a constant attendant from the age of three months, while both 
parents were studying law at the University and the father took a 
degree. The babies have a small room with cribs or they are trundled 
out into the yard and remain in their carriages. We have now under 
consideration a separate place for these babies with a trained nurse in 
charge, as they are a great responsibility and it is difficult to pnnect 
the tots just creeping from the careless romping of the older children. 

The attendance but not the membership is largely increased when 
the children can be conveyed back and forth from the homes. \Vc 
tried to do this and it proved a very great help to the mothers living at 
a distance from the University. We found, however, that we could not 
finance the scheme and it was abandoned until one of the mothers 
olTered her own automobile and her services in collecting and returning 
the children every morning. This she does for a very small fee. 

We also tried the scheme of serving limches to such children as 
wished to remain through the lunch hour. These children bring their 
own bread, butter, and other cold food and we bring over in a thermos 
contrivance hot vegetables and simple hot desserts from the nearby 
lunch room in Ida Noyes Hall. This venture required the assistance 
of so many more mothers that now lunches arc served on only one day a 
week. 

Several points in the successful management of such a nursery are 
obvious to those who have watched the enterprise from the beginning. 
First there must be a nucleus of enthusiastic and loyal women and they 
need a guaranteed financial backing until the enterprise is under way. 
Next, the situation must be centrally located. During the fall of the 
Student Army Training Corps our nursery practically suspended, 
since no such suitable place could be found. Then the dues must be 
very low as otherwise the mothers will not join. Ours are on a sliding 
scale of twenty-five cents to a dollar a week per family, most of the 
members paying fifty cents. When it is considered that for this price 
your children, no matter how many, can be competently guarded for 
over thirty hours a week it is obvious that it is the one cheap thing left in 
the world. With our membership of 46 these dues are sufiicient to pay 
the salary of the kindergartner and leave a small margin for extra help, 



1920] WOMEN AND PRESENT DAY PRICES 75 

games, cleaning supplies, or crackers. They are not sufficient to pay 
rent on a room and light and heat. 

Surprising as it may seem our most serious difficulty is in persuading 
the assisting mothers to come regularly and promptly. It is absolutely 
essential that at least two adults, preferably three, be on duty con- 
stantly. In case of accident someone must go for help but the children 
cannot be left alone. And yet to our shame be it said that time and 
again the mothers are inexcusably late or do not appear at all. 

Cooperation is the key-note of our nursery. Membership necessi- 
tates service on the mother's part. I take care of the children today so 
that thirty other mothers may have time free for other things. Tomor- 
row it is another's turn and I may have precious time for countless 
duties that can hardly be accompHshed when little three year olds are 
asking "Why? why? why?" or baby one year olds are toddling and 
tumbling into harm. 



WOMEN AND PRESENT DAY PRICES 

MARY KOLL 

University of Chicago 

Attorney General Palmer's nation-wide appeal to women for support 
in restoring the country's economic equilibrium recalls a pointed anec- 
dote apropos of "stepping down" related by an English lecturer at one 
time with us. 

The case had to do with Jack and Jim. Jack knew exactly to the 
penny, or nearly so, how much money Jim earned in a week; he knew 
how much Jim had to pay for rent, for food, and for the upkeep of his 
five children. Jim knew the same of Jack. When Jim was wont to 
enjoy solid comfort in the bosom of the family, he sat in shirt sleeves, 
pipe in mouth, on a sprawling old chair before the kitchen fire. Jack 
knew this; Jack did the same and Jim was aware of it. However, when 
Jack and his family came to call on Jim and his family, the comfort of 
the kitchen stove was deserted and the family passed to the shivering 
domain of the parlor where they sat "straight-up" with the neighbors — 



76 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOiQCS [February 

all of which led up to the point that each of us is struggling not so much 
to get on the step above as to convey to the world the impression that 
he is on the step above, and that if each of us stepped down just one 
step the struggles of economic life would be overcome, the only difiiculty 
being, "who should be the first to step down." 

We are well aware that patriotic principles were not alone responsible 
for the willingness to wear three-winter-old suits and four-season-back 
hats during the never-to-be-forgotten days of conservation. Many of 
us were glad enough to step down, to wrest ourselves free from the over- 
powering influence of the emulative and invidious (thanks to Veblen) 
aspects of the Standard of Living, and blithely to assign to the war our 
sudden force of character. It is precisely through exercising this type 
of force of will that the Attorney General contends that the women of 
the nation can lower the cost of consumption. It is the women who 
purchase 90 per cent of the food and wearing apparel consumed in 
America. If this most powerful class of consumers will unite in effort, 
their concerted resistance will demonstrate that the producer is insult- 
ing their patriotism and their knowledge of values through the styles 
and the prices that he endeavors to fix today. If this powerful group of 
consumers will as a group "step down," and will determine not to buy 
now, to refuse to sanction the overwhelming extravagance flaunted upon 
them, to demand through forbearance a return to the era of sound sense; 
and if they establish the dictum that the woman who continues to 
encourage the present program of the producer is the woman who does 
not care about the condition of the country, about other women, about 
the i\mcrican home — ^if the American woman will do these things there 
may be a return to "plain living and high thinking," and there must be 
a reduction in prices. This cannot be done by legislature. Men and 
women must do it for themselves, voluntarily. 

The problem is not so much a matter of dollars and cents as it is the 
matter of restoring peace, happiness, and contentment to the country 
at large. 



1920J EGG SUBSTITUTES 77 

EGG SUBSTITUTES 

The Bureau of Chemistry, United States Department of Agriculture, 
after analyzing and making baking tests with most of the preparations 
which are claimed by manufacturers to do the work of eggs, state that: 

Baking tests showed that, with the same recipe, cakes made with these 
so-called egg substitutes are inferior to cakes made with water in place of 
the substitute, are not nearly so good as cakes made with milk, and 
in no measure are comparable with cakes made with eggs. There is no doubt, 
say the speciahsts, that most of these products do not reaOy resemble eggs, 
neither can they take the place of eggs in baking and cooking, and further 
they do not serve any purpose in baking and cooking which is not equally 
served by the ordinary products daily used in the household. 

A distinction should be made by the consumer between dried egg prepara- 
tions, dried egg powders and the like, which consist entirely or mainly of real 
eggs in powdered form, and the so-called egg substitutes which contain little 
or no egg in any form. Real egg powders, properly prepared, will answer 
most purposes of shell eggs in baking and cooking. 

The statements of the Bureau of Chemistry in regard to composition 
and cost are in accord with those of the Food and Drug Bureau of 
Pennsylvania who last year analyzed more than forty egg substitutes 
and pubHshed the results in bulletin form.' The results of the analyses 
showed that one half or more than one half of every sample was starch 
of some kind. Some of the statements in the summary' are as follows: 

An egg of average size has a nutritive value of 75 calorics. Three dozen 
eggs would have a total food value of 2700 calories. A mi.xture of the ingre- 
dients commonly used in these egg substitutes has a nutritive value of 100 
calories for each ounce. Therefore, 4 ounces, the largest amount found in 
any one of the packages, would have a nutritive value of less than one-sixth 
that of the number of eggs it claims to replace. In most of them the ratio 
was less then this. 

To replace any article of the daily dietary with a product costing, we will 
say, one-third as much, but having one-sixth or one-eighth of the nutritive 
value, is certainly not in the interests of the consumer nor a real blow at the 
high cost of living. 

In some few of the products great stress is laid upon the fact that real egg 
is present. In several, the proportion of egg may reach 50 per cent, but 

^ Bullelin of the Pennsylvania Department of Agriculture, H.irrisburg, Pa., Vol. 1, No. 7, 
June, 1918. General Bulletin No. 314. Egg Substitutes and So-Called Egg Savers. 



78 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

these are rare indeed, and are appearing on the market only on account of 
the ruling of several of the Food Departments of other States, in which a 
product may not use the syllable "egg" in the title, unless the product actually 
contains at least 51 per cent of egg. Kven in these few instances, when egg 
is present, the element of deception still persists, for the directions for use 
stale that one leaspoonful of the powder will replace one egg in contradiction 
of the incontrovertible fact that the most concentrated form of dehydrated 
egg requires about four teaspoonfuls of the material to represent one egg. 
The coloring matter which is present, is another element of deception for 
which there can be no legitimate defense. Its purpose is to make the cooked 
or baked article possess an appearance of egg richness, which is not warranted 
by the comjjosition. 

As a class, these products are inimical to the welfare of the consuming 
public and a detriment to the trade in legitimate food substitutes, of which 
there are many of merit. If an economical housekeeper wants to save the 
cost of eggs and of egg substitutes as well, it may be done by taking 4 table- 
spoonfuls of milk and half a teaspoonful of cornstarch. This will be equiva- 
lent to a teaspoonful of a mixture of equal parts of dried milk and cornstarch, 
which are the essential ingredients of most of the brands on the market. 

The practice of combining ingredients to be found in every household and, 
after giving the mixture a fancy name, selling it for many times its value, 
should be discouraged by every means possible. In many instances the 
package selling for 25 cents does not cost more than 5 or 6 cents to the 
manufacturer; hence the effort to introduce these preparations. 

These conclusions are given: 

First. The brightest light of publicity should be shed upon these products 
and the heaviest weight of official authority should be invoked to discourage 
their manufacture and sale. 

Second. They afford an opportunity for unpatriotic profiteering, com- 
bined with the development of the art of camouflage to the point of perfection. 

Third. Their names are deceptive; their composition in no wise resembles 
that of egg; the presence of color, in those where it is used, is a fraud and the 
claims as to replacing value are either deliberate misstatements or ambiguous 
phrases. 

Finally. Egg substitutes serve no purpose that cannot be served just 
as satisfactorily and much more cheaply by articles in daily use in every 
household. 



1920] DEPRIVATIONS IN GERMANY 79 

AFTER THE WAR— IN GERMANY 

EXTRACTS FROM PRIVATE LETTERS OF AN AMERICAN WOMAN, RESIDENT 

IN GERMANY FOR MANY YEARS AS TIIE WIFE 

OF A GERMAN OFFICER 

Miinchen, 
November 28, 1919. 
Dear Aunt — 

Winter set in early this year — on October 1 — and we have had several 
snow storms and frost and extremely cold weather ever since. As a result we 
are burning all our carefully hoarded supply of peat and wood, which ought 
to have lasted all winter, and when this is used up I don't know what will 
happen to us. We all live in one room, the dining room, though the children 
do their home work in the adjoining room, which is half-heated by leaving the 
door open between. All the rest of the apartment is icy cold and I have 
gotten very painful chilblains from the cold floors. I think cold is much 
harder to stand than hunger, and I am used to both. We have more to eat 
now, but pay exorbitant prices for meat, flour, and other necessities, whereas 
the rations allowed by the authorities still exist in the same insufficient quan- 
tities we have had all during the war. Yesterday was Thanksgiving Day, 
the first year without a turkey and the first year I had absolutely no desire 

to celebrate. All the other past years my friends, Mrs. , Mrs. 

and their husbands have met together with us for some sort of feast. 

I went to the short service at the American church in the morning, but all of 
those present had to "imagine" the turkey dinner afterwards. Most of us 
felt like crying 

The currency is so low that a check for the smallest amount by being 
multiplied by 25 or 30, according as the exchange happens to be, will go a 
great way here, even if the prices are exorbitant. Since the embargo was 
raised, coffee, tea, cocoa, rice, etc., have appeared on the market, but at such 
prices that no one can buy much of these long-needed articles. I have not 
eaten bananas or oranges for years. We drank malt coffee all during the war; 
during the last year, until the embargo was raised this summer, tea was a 
great luxury seldom enjoyed. We have known all the deprivations and mal- 
nutrition of the Southerners during the Civil War. During that awful reign 
of terror in April, when the troops which came to the relief of Munich were 
shooting in the streets, and a battery of artillery was shot to pieces, several 
of the horses were killed by exploding shells. These were fallen upon and 
cut to pieces by the hungry mob who kept on till every eatable piece had been 

seized, in spite of dangerous shell fire! .... B often was 

obliged to eat horse flesh during the last year of the war. He even sent us 
a supply frequently and the children ate it if it was stewed or made into 



80 Tire JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

hash, but I preferred to go hungry those days. Horsemeat has a horrid, 
sweetish taste which 1 simply couldn't "stand for." At the beginning of 
the war there were 5000 dogs in Munich. There are 3000 less now, and I 
believe most of these were eaten in the form of sausages. 

The worst of all is the lack of sugar, butter, or fat in every form, and milk. 
Families where there are no children can't get any milk at all; those with 
children under 10, only one pint per head; even nursing mothers do not get 
enough. Just try to drink malt coffee without milk, or bake without it, and 
see how things taste. Condensed milk is now for sale, but a 25 cent tin 
costs nearly S2.00. You can imagine how much the poor can buy at that 
price. The worst deprivation for me was the lack of while bread. The 
black bread during the last 3 years was horrid, full of sawdust, potato, or 
turnips to stretch the rye or barley flour used, which I loathe even unadul- 
terated. Well, we drink coffee now at S3 a pound and tea and cocoa at S5 a 
pound, but all our drink, either coffee or tea, has to be sweetened with sac- 
charine as the sugar ration is barely enough for baking or sweetening apple 

sauce, puddings, etc We pay S5 for a roast of any kind, $5 

for a small chicken, SIO for a goose, and SI. 50 a pound for the commonest 

kind of fish. We plan to go out to with the children and ser\-- 

ants for the Christmas holidays, and may have to stay there all of Jan- 
uary on account of the heating problem. The children say the schools are to 
be closed until February, for lack of coal. It will be quiet out there and 
healthful, and we have stoves in several of the rooms and plenty of wood to 
burn, as I had lots of the trees in the garden cut down last winter to make 
into fuel. 

December 8, 1919. 

We need badly decent shoestrings of all lengths, black and brown, but 
particularly black. For years we couldn't buy decent shoestrings and those 
now on the market are made of paper or other fibre, and burst after a few 
days' wear. Writing paper over here is so rotten that it can't be used. They 
have no decent finishing process and the ink runs on it. If you only knew 
all the things we have to do without and have done without these last years 
you would hardly believe it 

My brother-in-law has had to go through another robbery— this time in 

his villa on Lake . Two gentlemen crooks appeared to the woman 

who kept the keys of his house which had been carefully locked up for the 
winter and explained they were his cousin returned from capti\'ity in Persia 
and his servant and demanded the key to spend the night. They gave a most 

plausible story of having arranged with R to meet them there the 

next day. The woman opened the house for them, hunted everj'where for 
bedding which R — ■ had carefully hidden against just such an emer- 
gency. When the woman came back the next morning the thieves had departed 



1920] CHEERFUL COMPROMISES 81 

taking with them all the bedding, a wheel, a big photographic apparatus, very 
valuable, and all kinds of other instruments. The same day all our doormats 
were stolen in the entry to this apartment, and part of the carpet on the stairs. 
Hardly a week passes that some of our friends do not get robbed or lose some 
of their property in one way or another. The police seem powerless to pre- 
vent it or to catch the scamps afterwards. The "honest German" seems 
sometimes a relic of the past. If he isn't stealing he is busy smuggling in 
or out of Germany articles forbidden for trade, in the hope of helping the 
low state of the currency. Smuggling, bribery, stealing, and cheating are 
on the increase in spite of all the new laws to the contrary. 

This six hour scheme of the working classes is a calamity, too, when the 
nation ought to work longer hours and harder than before, if it ever hopes to 
recover from the fearful waste and losses of the war. 



A CHEERFUL COMPROMISE 

"Life has its inevitable compromises. We cannot always be at our 
best. Take such a simple matter as that of masticating our food. 
Before I had given much thought to it, I should have said that it was 
something worth doing and worth doing well. When I learned that 
Mr. Gladstone was accustomed to chew each morsel of food thirty-two 
times, I thought it greatly to his credit. For a man who had so many 
other things to do, that seemed enough. 

"But when I read a book of some three hundred pages containing the 
whole duty of man in regard to chewing, I was disheartened. Mr. 
Gladstone appeared to be a mere tyro guilty of bolting his food. "The 
author has found that one-fifth of the midway section of the garden 
yoimg onion, sometimes called shallot, has required seven hundred and 
twenty-two mastications before disappearing through involuntary 
swallowing." 

"The author evidently did his whole duty by that young onion, and 
yet I should have pardoned him if he had done something less. That 
doctrine of his about involuntary swallowing being the only kind that 
is morally justifiable, seems to me to be too austere. If we have to 
swallow in the end, why not show a cheerful willingness?" 
— Samuel McClwrd CroUiers in ''The Pardoner's Wallet" Houghton, 

Mifflin Company. 



EDITORIAL 

A New Departure. An interested member* of the American Home 
Economics Association took the trouble to formulate a careful plan for 
the enlargement of the JouicsAi. of Humk Kc(jnomics and to present 
it to the Council of the Association at Blue Ridge in the form of a 
t>T)ewritten statement of eight pages. It is impossible to carry out 
many of the valuable suggestions without a greater financial backing 
than is available at present. In response to one, however, we are 
beginning in the editorial section of this number a monthly review of 
the articles that have appeared in recent scientific periodicals. It is 
hoped that this may be of special service to those who wish to keep 
up to date in their teaching, but who have not adecjuate library facili- 
ties at their disposal, or perhaps the time to use them. 

We arc hoping that these reports may deal not only with food but 
with shelter and clothing and that they may include, not merely 
reports of research, but description of new types of apparatus that 
have been found of value, and other matters of immediate interest to 
the readers of the Journal. Dr. Katharine Blunt and her associates 
at the University of Chicago have agreed to take charge of these sum- 
maries for the present year, though the material may often be prepared 
by others. 

New Measurement of Metabolism. Studies of energ>' production 
have been made much easier and simpler since Benedict' pubUshed the 
account of his new portable respiration apparatus. The older methods 
for measuring energy metabolism, long used with brilliant success by 
Benedict and his coworkers in Boston and by DuBois and others at the 
Russell Sage Institute of Pathology, involve elaborate apparatus and 
require very specialized skill on the part of the experimenter, and often 
considerable time and patience from the subject experimented upon. 

The new apparatus is less expensive and much easier of manipulation 
since it requires no gas analysis. In using it the subject breathes through 
a mouth-piece connected by a rubber tube to an enclosed volume of 

• Mrs. Louise McDanell Browne. 

' Benedict. Boston Med. and Sur. Jour., 178, 667, 191S. 
&2 



1920] EDITORIAL 83 

oxygen-rich air contained in a movable cylinder, or spirometer, while 
the carbon dioxide produced is absorbed in soda lime. The air in this 
closed circuit is kept moving by a small blower inside the apparatus, so 
that breathing is quite normal. To determine the volume of oxygen 
consumed, it is merely necessary to note the diminution of volume of 
air in the cylinder. The calories are calculated from this. In 15 min- 
utes on a woman subject the oxygen consimiption may vary around 
3000 CO., so that observation periods as short as this give a very fair 
degree of accuracy. The carbon dioxide may also be determined by 
weighing the soda lime jar before and after an experiment, but as the 
jar is large and the weight of carbon dioxide small, the observation 
requires a special balance, and it is hardly necessary for calculation of 
calories. Carpenter,^ in a series of experiments comparing results on 
"untrained subjects" with this apparatus and others in the Nutrition 
Laboratory, draws favorable conclusions as to the accuracy of the new 
method. 

The possible extent of the use of the apparatus both for teaching and 
research cannot be even suggested. We can now demonstrate to our 
students and have them fmd for themselves with \4vidness, many of the 
points in metabolism that we have heretofore been merely talking about. 
First, of course, are the questions of basal metabolism and its variation 
under different conditions. The hardship in this determination — com- 
ing to the laboratory without breakfast, lying absolutely quiet for a 
preliminary half hour rest and for the observation — is not enough to 
check research, and is good discipline for the budding dietetics teacher. 
Moreover, the New York workers' report that a light breakfast of two 
pieces of bread and butter, a lump of sugar and 60 cc. of milk without 
coffee, has no effect on the basal metabolism after two hours, so that 
mid morning observations are feasible. Other questions for demon- 
stration for investigation are the effect of food, of coffee, of exercise, of 
household tasks — anything that can be done with a subject lying, sit- 
ting, or standing attached to the mouth-piece of the apparatus. 

Clinicians are making increasing use of determinations of basal meta- 
bolism in diagnosis of disease, especially hyperthyroidism,^ abnormal 
basal metabolism being probably the best indication of the presence of 

• Hendry, Carpenter, and Emmes. Boston Med. attd Siir. Jour., ISl, 285 (Sept. 4), 1919; 
ibid. 334 (Sept. 11), 1919; ibid. 368 (Sept. 18), 1919. 

'Soderstrom, Barr, and DuBois. Arch. Inter. Med., 221, 613, 1918. 

* McCaskcy. Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc., 73, 243 (July 26), 1919. 



84 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

disturbed thyroid secretion, and such diagnosis is therefore made pos- 
sible in many more cases by the simplicity of this new apparatus. 

The Role of the Antineuritic Vitamine in the Artificial feeding 
of Infants. The artificial feeding of infants so far has been largely 
concerned with approximating the composition of human milk. To 
attain this, top milk is diluted and the energy value is made up by the 
addition of carbohydrate material, usually lactose. So long as milk 
was considered a valuable source of the antineuritic vitamine there was 
little need for considering the possible relationship between a deficiency 
in this growth promoting factor and nutritional disturbances in infancy, 
but recent work along this line raises the question of the effect of such 
dilution. Attention was drawn to the importance of this fact, because 
it developed that artificially fed infants required a greater energy value 
in the diet to equal the gain in weight of breast fed children. The 
suggestion was made that the excess food carried with it, by adsorption, 
the required supply of antineuritic \itamine. 

The work of Dr. Amy Daniels and Miss Byfield^ at the Iowa Child 
Welfare Research Station was undertaken in order to study the value 
of various additions to the diet. Infants were selected from the Iowa 
clinic who were normal in every respect except that they were failing to 
gain in weight. For three periods of from 10 to 20 days each, they 
received an addition of \dtamine-rich material with the regular bottle 
feedings. In the first, this was an extract of wheat embryo; in the 
second period, in order to study a more easily available source, it was an 
alcoholic extract of carrots, turnips, and celery; in the third, since the 
preparation of this extract is not feasible for routine feeding, a soup was 
made from the same vegetables. Growth was stimulated in all the 
subjects and all showed a similar gain in weight in spite of variable 
factors of age, calorie value, and different percentage composition of food. 

The authors draw the conclusion that failure to gain in infants and 
yoimg children may be the result of an insufficient amount of the anti- 
neuritic vitamine in the food, which should therefore be carefully scruti- 
nized with this in mind. 

Is Botulism a Present Danger? Numerous deaths from botulism 
have been reported on the Pacific Coast in the past three or four years 

'McCaskey. N. Y. Med. Jour., 110, 607 (Oct. 11), 1919. 

* Daniels and Byfield. Amer. Jour. Diseases Children, Dec., 1919. 



1920] EDITORIAL 85 

and recently this form of food poisoning has been recognized in several 
instances in other parts of the country, caused by ripe olives in Ohio 
and Detroit,' by home canned asparagus in Boise, Idaho,^ and by cattle 
forage in Illinois.' The increase in number of cases, whether real or 
apparent because of improvement in methods of diagnosis, raises the 
questions: where does B. holulinis occur, how generally is it distributed 
in nature, what are the possibilities of its presence in canned food, either 
home or factory product, what is the extent of our danger from this sort 
of poisoning? 

The organism is possibly quite generally distributed through yard, 
garden, and orchard, as it has been found by Dr. G. S. Burke' of Leland 
Stanford University, in such places as bruised and bird-pecked cherries, 
spotted bean leaves, insects from bean plants, hog manure. The mate- 
rial was collected from five widely separated localities in California. 
Earlier efforts (1912) by Van Ermengem to find the baciOus probably 
failed because of the difliculty of actually isolating it. Mrs. Burke 
made no especial attempt to isolate the organism but detected its pres- 
ence by specific toxin formation. The method consisted essentially of 
injecting the filtrate from the unknown culture into guinea-pigs and 
watching for the characteristic botulism symptoms; the toxin was 
further identified with the specific anti-toxin prepared in her laboratory. 

The organism B. holulinis was not found by WeinzirP in some 1018 
samples of factory canned food examined in the laboratories of the 
Department of Pre\'entive Medicine and Hygiene in Harvard Medical 
School. The finality of his results is questioned by Dr. Burke' who 
states that failure actually to isolate the bacillus is not a true indication 
of its absence. The interesting controversy of these two investigators 
can be read in the Journal of the American Medical Assoc; alien}-'' 

• General News. Bacillus Botulinis Poisoning in Detroit, Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc, 73, 
1373, 1919. 

'Thom, Edmondson, and Giltner. Botulism from Canned Asparagus, Jmtr. Amer. 
Med. Assoc., 73, 907, 1919. 

'Graham and Brueckner. Studies in Forage Poisoning, Jmir. Bacteriology, 4, 1, 
1919. 

♦Burke. The Occurrence of Bacillus Botulinis in Nature, Jour. Bacteriology, 4, 541 
(Sept.), 1919. 

' Weinzirl. The Bacteriology of Canned Foods, Jour. Med. Research, 39, 349, 1919. 

' Burke. Spoiled Caimed Foods and Botulism, Journ. Amer. Med. Assoc., 73, 1078, 
(Oct. 4), 1919. 

' Weinzirl. Spoiled Caimed Foods and Botulism, Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc., 73, 1789, 
(Dec. 6), 1919. 



86 THE jouKNAL OF HOU£ ECONOMICS (February 

Because the olTcnding food has been in many instances a home canned 
product' considerable suspicion has been attached to fruits and vege- 
tables so preserved. It is known now that some strains of B. botulinis 
can withstand even the temperatures at 5, 10, and 15 pounds pressure 
for 10 minutes.' There is apparently some diversity in resistance to 
heat and cold among the diiTcrent strains; Thorn, Kdmondson and 
Giltner' found that the Boise strain "can live and multiply in as low a 
temperature as 12°C.; therefore foods set away in the ice box are not 
free from danger if B. bolulinis happens to be present. Fortunately, 
the toxins of the various strains seem to be rendered innocuous quite 
readily by heating to the boiling temperature." 

The salient features of the measures of precautions advised by many 
writers seem to be: to reject any canned material which is at all suspi- 
cious of spoiling or putrefaction, not even tasting it; to use in canning 
only fresh, unbruised, sound vegetables and fruits; and then as a fmal 
safeguard, to heat all canned food to the boiling temperature to destroy 
any possible toxin. In many instances of botulism poisoning, the vic- 
tims had suspected the condition of the material but proceeded to eat 
it nevertheless. 

Our interest in botulism, far out of proportion to its incidence and 
importance as a cause of death, is due partly to the imusualness of the 
sjTnptoms' and partly to its relation to the whole question of the preser- 
vation of foods. We await with much interest further information con- 
cering the mode of contamination of food products and of dissemination 
of the organism. 

Sending American Home Economics Abroad. A very interesting 
plan has been laid before the ofhccrs of the American Home Econom- 
ics Association. It is that they show their faith in their own science 
by sending it to the Near East. Our eflScient agency for this work is 
on the spot, namely, the American College for Girls at Constantinople. 

This interesting and unique College has been in existence for twenty 
years and has exerted an incalculable influence over the women of the 
Near East. It serves 18 nationalities, and sends into Greece, the 
Greek islands, Turkey, the shores of the Bosphorus and all the Balkan 
states educated women to become leaders of their people. 

' Dickson, Monograph 8, Rockefeller Inst., for Med. Research, 1918. 
' Burke. The Effect of Heat on the Spores of B. botulinis: Its Bearing on Home Can- 
ning Methods, Part I. Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc, 72, 88, 1919. 



1920] EDITORIAL 87 

These people live very differently from us and very empirically. 
The College now offers good courses in chemistry and biology which 
would be factors in a home economics curriculum. 

After over seven years of war and the necessity for doing a great deal 
of relief work, the College is not in a position to introduce the home 
economics that the girls so terribly need. So they turn to America. 

The suggestion is made by Miss Marlalt, of the University of Wis- 
consin, and warmly seconded by Miss Wliite, President, by Mrs. 
Norton of the Journal, and by many other officers of the Association, 
that we send out a first-class professor to Constantinople, who can organ- 
ize an active department in the College. The Council of the Associa- 
tion will be asked to consider such a plan at the Cleveland meeting. 

This seems a wonderful opportunity to make our home economics 
do service. Every girl who could be taught how to live and run a 
home would go either into a \iUage where she would be the leading 
citizen and carry a great light with her, or into a city, where her can- 
dle, together with the candles of other alumnae of the College at 
Constantinople, would illuminate the town. Imagine sending into 
Turkish, Armem'an, Greek, Ser\ian, Albanian, Jewish, Bulgarian, and 
other Oriental homes lux ex Occidenta. 

It would cost $2000 a year to maintain a department of home 
economics at Constantinople, and we should wish to undertake it for 
three years. The money would pay $1200 to a professor (who would 
also receive her living), together with her travelling expenses to and 
from America, and would supply a little departmental equipment. 

The American Colleges at Constantinople, Beirut, and other points 
in Asia Minor are the hope of the Near East, and home economics 
workers will watch with great interest the plans for tliis contribution 
from their own field to a section of the world which education must 
win from anarchy and ignorance. 

Benjamin R. Andrews. 

As the Journal Goes to Press. A Bill (TT. R. 12078) to amend 
the Smith-Hughes Vocational Educational Bill has just been intro- 
duced into the House of Representatives by Congressman Fess, 
chairman of the House Committee on Education. This amendment 
is substantially the bill that was given in tentative form in the June 
Journal. It provides an appropriation of three million dollars for 
home economics, distributed among the states on the basis of population. 

Now is the lime to write to your representative and urge its passage. 



88 iifE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

PROGRAM OF THE AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 

In Connection wrni the Dcpabtment of Superintendence, N. E. A. 
AuDiTosnm, Eagle School, Clexxland 

MONDAY afternoon, fEBHCARV 23 

Methods in High Scboots: 

Leader — Edna N. White, President, A. H. E. A., and Professor of Home Economics, Ohio 
State University, Columbus, Ohio 
L30 The Problem Sol\'ing Method in Home Economics Teaching 

Helen Goodspccd, State Supervisor of Home Exronomics, Madison, Wisconsin 
2.30 Applied Economics in a One Year Home liconomics High School Course 

Rosa Bicry, University of Chicago, Elementary and High Schools 
3.30 General Discussion 
6.30 Dinner 

TUESDAY horning, FEBRUARY 24 

Tests in Home Economics Teaching: 

Leader — Adelaide Laura Van Duzer, Supervisor of Home Economics, Cleveland, Ohio 
9.00 Tests as an Aid in the Teaching and Organization of Home Economics 

Florence Williams, Supervisor of Industrial Arts, Richmond, Indiana 
10.00 Standard Tests in Teaching Textiles and Clothing in High School 

Mabel Trilling, Professor of Home Ex:onomics, University of Chicago 
11.00 Teaching by the Meal Plan Method 

Betsey Madison, Home Economics Department, University of Wisconsin 

TUESDAY AFTERNOON, FEBRUARY 24 

Child Feeding: 

Leader — Lydia Roberts, Assistant Professor of Home Economics, University of Chicago, 
and temporarily with the Children's Bureau, Department of Labor, Washington, 
D. C. 
1.30 Report on Field Work for Children's Bureau 

Lydia Roberts 
2.00 Feeding Clinic and Demonstration School 

Mary A. Harper, Association for Improving the Condition of the Poor, New 
York City 
3.00 Exhibits of Rats on Different Experimental Diets 

Emma Francis, Battle Creek Sanitarium, Battle Creek, Mich. 
3.45 General Discussion 
Members of the Association should register, upon arrival, at N. E. A. headquarters in the 
Hotel Cleveland. Tickets for the dinner Monday should be purchased at that time. Ar- 
rangements should also be made for excursions Monday morning. The local committee 
will arrange for visits to elementary and junior and senior high schools, to Western Reserve 
University, to the Y. W. C. A., to factories serving lunches, and to hospitals. Communica- 
tions in regard to reservations should be addressed to Miss Adelaide L. Van Duzer, Board of 
Education, Cleveland. It is important that advance reservations should be made. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



American Marriage Laws in their Social 
Aspects: A Digest. By Piled S. Hall 
AND Ellzabeth W. Brooke. New York: 
Russell Sage Foundation, 1919, pp. 132. 
This compilation of the marriage laws is 
the second of a series of studies dealing 
with the problem of marital maladjustment 
as those problems come to the attention of 
the social case-worker. The first study, 
Broken Homes, by Miss Colcord, was re- 
viewed in the Xovember Journal. These 
two will be followed by a study of the 
administradon of the marriage laws of the 
various states. 

The authors first summarize the recom- 
mendations for amendment to our marriage 
laws that have been put forward by four 
authorities — the Commissioners on Uniform 
State Laws, Professor George E. Howard in 
his monumental Study of Matrimonial 
Institutions, Miss Willystine Goodsell, author 
of The Family as a Social and Educational 
Institution, and Frank Gaylord Cook, 
author of a series of articles on the "Mar- 
riage Celebration" published in the Atlantic 
Monthly in 1888. 

The plan followed by the authors is that 
of setting forth something in the nature of a 
standard and following this exposition first 
by a summary of the marriage laws of all 
the states and then by an analysis of the 
law of each state. The recommendations 
bear on tlie following subjects: 

1. Common law marriages, which are 
still recognized in 26 states and should be 
everywhere abolished. 

2. The marriageable age. 

3. The notice of intent to marry, of 
importance as insuring greater deliberaUon 
on the part of the contracting parties and 
as giving opportunity for investigation by 
authorities or persons interested. 

4. The marriage celebrant. 



5. State registration. 

6. Inter-state relations. 

Acts proposed by the Commissioners on 
Uniform State Laws are either given in 
full or carefully summarized. The subject 
of the desirability of uniform legislation is 
discussed and the arguments for and against 
federal action as compared with action by 
the various states. 

The editor, Miss Mary E. Richmond; 
expresses the hope that persons in possession 
of fairly exact knowledge concerning the 
administration of the marriage laws in the 
various communities may sliare their knowl- 
edge with her. (Address care of the Russell 
Sage Foundation, 130 E. 22nd Street, New 
York City.) 

It is, of course, clear that if there b to be 
developed a national structure through 
which the national life is to function with a 
fair degree of freedom and satisfaction, 
national standards must be developed, 
national minima determined upon. It is 
highly important, then, that as rapidly as 
possible, in the various important fields of 
social organization, data be obtained from 
which the volume and character of the task 
of nationalizing the social life may be 
judged. Like so many other subjects 
originally left to the states, the organization 
of the family now appears as clearly of 
national rather than local concern. This 
study makes a contribution towards our 
thinking in national terms upon a funda- 
mental problem. 

This is an illustration of the national 
character of the problem of distress, for the 
families, whose marital difJiculdes often 
prove to be tlie criucal question for a social 
agency which is trj'ing to develop a plan for 
treatment, may have been the victim of 
conditions in this respect as in others far 
below those prevailing in the community 
89 



90 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [February 

in which the agency and family are brought be, with all ioteresled in the development of 

together; and burdrns resulting from bck a true American home, peculiarly concerned 

of intelligent social control in one place nuy for the standardization on a national tcale 

fall on shoulders far removed from that of tiiil body of legislation, 
jurisdiction. Social workers, then, should S. P. Bbkckinkidce. 



PAMPHLETS RFXEIVED 

Issued by the U. S. Department of Labor, Children's Bureau, 

Jn/anI Morlalily. Results of a Field Study in Sapnaw, Mich. Nila F. Allen. Infant 
Mortality Scries No. 9, Bureau I^jblicalion No. 52, 1919. 

Maternity Benefit Systems in Certain Foreign Countries. Henry J. Harris. Legal Series 
No. 3, Burciu Publication No. 57, 1919. 

Minimum Standards for Child Welfare. Adopted by the Washington and Regional Con- 
ferences on Child Welfare, 1919. Conference Series No. 2, Bureau Publication No. 62, 
1919. 

Save the Youngest. Seven Charts on Maternal and Infant Mortality, with explanatory 
comment. Children's Year Follow-up Series No. 2, Bureau Publication No. 61, 1919. 

Seventh Annual Report of the Chief, Children's Bureau, to the Secretary of Labor. Fiscal year 
ended June 30, 1919. 

Issued by the New York State College of Agriculture at Cornell University: 
The Cornell Reading Course for the Home: Thrift Scries — Lesson 128, Pomls in Selecting the 
Daily Food, Flora Rose; Lesson 129, Questions for Group Discussions on Thrift, Flora 
Rose; Lesson 130, Club Programs on Thrift. 

Issued by the Indiana State Department of Public Instruction, Indianapolis, Indiana: 
Homemaking Scries: Care of the Family in Health. Care of the Family in Sickness. Care 
of the House. The Farm House. The Gift Season. Home Management. Hos- 
pitality. House Decoration. House Furnishing. How to Live. Selection of Cloth- 
ing. Home Sewing. Problems in Hand Sewing. Making Use of our Food Supply. 

Table Service. Food Preservation. 

Issued by the Ladies Home Journal, Philadelphia, Pa.: Written by Anna Barrows. Price 
10 cents each. 
Foods that Build the Body. What a Young Housewife should know about Buying and Cook- 
ing Meat and other Body-Building Foods; Good Bread Making; Serving Fat in Food; 
Serving Minerals as Food; Serving Sweets as Food. 

Issued by the Bureau of Applied Economics, Inc., Washington, D. C. 
Changes in Cost of Living, 1914-1919, A Summarj' of Existing Data. 
Standards of Living, A Compilation of Budgetary Studies. 
Wages in Various Industries. A Summary of Wage Movements during the War. 

Issued by the National Kitchens Division of the Ministry of Food, London: 
Handbook of National Kitchens and Restaurants. 
Good Food at Less Cost, Spencer Leigh Hughes, M.P. 
A Great Public Work. Mrs. F. L. Turner. 
Thoughts on National Kitchens, Arnold Bennett. 



1920] BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 91 

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 

PERIODICAL LITERATURE 
House Constkuction and Furnishings 

Floors and Flaws in your Kitchen. Ethel R. Peyser, House and Garden, October, 1919. 

Experiences in Teaching Household Decoration. Harriet Day, Indus. Arts, October, 
1919. 

Italian Furniture. Leslie G. Martin, Indus. Arts, October, 1919. 

Colonial Portraits as Decoration in Modem Homes. Peyton Boswell, House and Garden, 
October, 1919. 

Methods of Heatmg a House. F. C. Brown, House and Garden, October, 1919. 

What to Know About Furniture. Matlack Price, House and Garden, October, 1919. 

How to Make Your Curtains. Agnes Foster Wright, House and Garden, October, 1919. 

Shrinkage of Interior Trim: Its Cause and Prevention. L. V. Teesdale, Amer. Archi- 
tect, pp. 143-145, figs. 5. 

Clothing ajtd Design 

Embroidery Designs for Simple Stitches. Le Costume Royal, October, 1919. 

The Girdle in Some of Its Forms Throughout Past Centuries. Le Costume Royal, October, 
1919. 

The Amateur Dressmaker. Elite, December, 1919. 

Old Clothes as New Fashions. Catharine Oglesby, Fashion Review, November, 1919. 

Evolution. Historical Development of Skirts. Le Costume Royal, November, 1919. 

Dress Trimmings — English History. Le Costume Royal, December 1919. 

Democracy and Art. Gutzon Borghun, Arts and Decor., October, 1919. 

Simplicity and Design. Pedro Lemas, School Arts, November, 1919. 

Creative Texrile Art and the American Museum. M. D. C. Crawford, Amer. Museum 
Jour., 17 (1917) No. 4, pp. 253-259, figs. 20. An article with illustrations describing the 
use of pre-Columbian and American motives and similar sources for modem textile designs. 

Pine Needle Basketry. Edward F. Worst, Indus. Arts., October, 1919. 

Miscellaneous 

Administration of aMen's Club. J. W. Wood, Hotel Mo., 21, (1919), No. 318, pp. 77, 78, 
Many suggestions regarding management, cost, food problems, and similar topics are made 
in tills article, presented at the annual conference of the Institution Economics Section, 
American Home Economics Association, at the University of Wisconsin, Madison, in June, 
1919. 

The Invention and Spread of Agriculture in America. H. J. Spinden, Amer. Museum 
Jour., 17 (1917), No. 3, pp. 180-188, figs. 8. Information is given regarding the use of com, 
peanuts, squashes, and other American foods of prehistoric times. The article is preceded 
by a list of food plants, medicines, fibres, gums, and domestic animals, for which the world 
today is indebted to the aboriginal inhabitants of /Vraerica. 

The conservation of Our Food Suppliesin WarTime. T.G. Hull, Amer. Museum Jour., 17, 
(1917), No. 5, pp. 295-298, figs. 3. An account of the war-tune exhibit installed at the 
American Museum of Natural History. 

Wild Mushrooms as Food. W. A. Murrill, Amer. Museum Jour., 17 (1917), No. 5, pp. 
322-331, figs. 14. An illustrated article describing edible mushrooms and giving suggestions 



92 THE jouKNAL OF BOUE ECONOMICS [February 

as to their cookery. Information is also given regarding the poisonous speda which must 
Iw avoided. 

The Anay, a New Kdlblc-fruitcd Relative of tlie Avocado. S. F. Blake, Jour. Wash. 
Aiod. Sci., 9 (1919), No. 16, pp. ASl-Abl, fig. 1. This [lapcr reports the discover)- in Central 
America of an edible fruit related to the avocado, for which the native name "anay" is 
retained. A full botanical description is given, together with other information. It is 
stated that tlie fruit is oily and in general resembles the avocado, but in addition has a 
slightly sweetish taste. 

Ostrich Fanning in South America. J. E. Duerden, Amer. Mtueum Jour., 17 (1917), 
No. 6, pp. 366-375, figs. 12. This article contains much interesting information about ostrich 
feathers and plumes. 

Discoveries at the Aztec Ruin. E. H. Morris, .\mrr. ifuseum Jour., 17 (1917), No. 3, 
pp. 168-179, figs. 14. Data regarding prehistoric Pueblo architecture in the Southwest, 
and pottery, household utensils, and clothing, are given. 

Explorations in New Mexico. E. H. .Morris, Amer. Museum Jour., 17 (1917), 7, pp. 
461-471, figs. 9. Interesting information on pottery, etc., and similar topics are included. 

The Yellowing of Paper. A. B. Hitchcns, Sci. Amer. Sup., 87 (1919), No. 2257, p. 222, 
figs. 3. Experimental work here discussed led to the conclusion that "the sheet from which 
the sizing had been removed did not discolor greatly, but did not hold up as well as those 
which had never been sized at all. The rosin size, even if it is present in the paper only for 
a short time, undoubtedly has some influence upon the fibers and produces a certain amount 
of yellowing with time. 

"Where it is necessary that a paper retain its original color, it is obviously important to 
use as little rosin size as possible, consistent with the degree of sizing required, and to use 
always an iron-free aluminum sulphate as the precipitant. The animal sizing should be 
omitted or kept as low as possible." 

Effect of Number of Coats on tlie Moisture Resistance of Spar Varnish. Technical Noles, 
U. S. Forest Service (Madison, Wis.), No. F-12. 

Some References to Literature on Manufacture and Testing of Animal Glues. Teehnical 
Noles, U. S. Forest Service (Madison, Wis.), No. F-7. 

Bibliography on Casein and Casein Glues (Books on Chemistry of Casein) and (Articles 
on Manufacture and Use of Casein). Technical Noles, U. S. Forest Service (Madison, Wis.) 
No. F-6. 

Water Resistant Glues. Technical Notes, U. S. Forest Service (Madison, Wis.), No. F-4. 

Scratched Joints Versus Smooth Joints in Gluing. Technical Notes, U. S. Forest Service 
(Madison, Wis), No. l"-5. 

Setting Blood Albumin Glue in a Kiln. Tecltnical Noles, U. S. Forest Service (Madison, 
Wis.), No. F-19. 

On the Bacterial Efficiency of Soap Solutions in Power Laundry. H. G. Elledge and W. 
E. McBridc, Amer. Jmir. Pub. Health, 8 (1918), No. 7, pp. 494-498. ExperimenUl work is 
reported. Sterilization is obtained when garments are finished by ironing oft by drying at 
high temperatures. -In the case of those not so treated the washing with soap produces a 
bactericidal efficiency comparable to that obtained by pasteurization. 

Carpets Washed and Scoured on the Floor. Hotel Mo., 27 (1919), No. 318, p. 50. 

China for dual use — cooking and serving. Hotel Mo., 27 (1919), No. 318, p. 52. 

Solving the lloor scrubbing problems. Hotel Mo., 27 (1919), No. 318, p. 52. 

Washing and ironing machines for small hotels. Hotel Mo., 27 (1919), No. 318, p. 52. 
A unit suitable for small laundr>' equipment installation is described. 

Teaching Healtli in the Schools. L. Emmett Holt, Mo. Bull., N. Y. Sute Dept. Health, 
July, 1919. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



The Vocational Homemaking Section 
of the National Society for Vocational 
Education offers the following program for 
its meetings at Hotel La Salle, Chicago, 
February 19 and 20. 

Thursday Morning, 9 A. M. 

Vocational Homemaking Education 

Chairman, Isabel Ely Lord, Director School 

of Household Science and Arts, Pratt 

Institute. Brooklyn, N. V. 

1. Effect of the Smith-Hughes Law on 

Instruction in Home Economics 
Report of Special Committee of the 
Vocational Education Association of 
the Middle West: A— Full Time 
Schools, Cora I. Davis, State Super- 
visor of Home Economics Education, 
Illinois. B — Teacher Training, Louise 
Stanley, Head of Department of Home 
Economics, University of Missouri. 
C — Part-Time and Evening Schools. 

2. In Training Teachers of Vocational Home- 

making, how shall we meet the 
requirement of practical experience? 
Report of Special Committee of the 
National Society for Vocational Edu- 
cation, Maud Murchie, State Super- 
visor of Home Economics, California. 

3. Standards of Accomplishment 

Report of Special Committee, Anna M. 
Cooley, Associate Professor of House- 
hold Arts Education, Teachers Col- 
lege, New York City. 

Friday Morning, 9 A. M. 

Vocational Homemaking Education 

Chairman, Maud I. Murchie 

1. Home Project Work in Vocational Home- 

making 
Report of Special Committee, Louisa A. 
Pryor, State Board of Education, 
Massachusetts. 

2. Methods of Household Accounting in the 

form of an exhibit, Sarah McLcod, 
Society for Savings, Cleveland. 



The sessions when the industrial educa- 
tion of women is discussed will also interest 
home economics teachers. There will be a 
large home economics representation, as the 
Federal Board has called in the Smith- 
Hughes workers for a conference just before 
the National Society meeting. 

The Ohio Home Economics Associa- 
tion will hold its annual meeting in the 
auditorium of the Eagle School, Cleveland, 
February 25 (the day following the meeting 
of the A. H. E. A.). 

The afternoon program will be as follows: 

A Forward Look in Home Economics, 
Sarah Louise Arnold, Dean of Simmons 
College, Boston, Mass.; The Reorganization 
of Home Economics Instruction, Mrs. Hen- 
rietUi W. Calvin, Specialist in Home Eco- 
nomics, Bureau of Education, Washington, 
D. C; The Nutrition Class for Children as 
a New Field for the Teacher of Home Eco- 
nomics, Mrs. Ira Couch Wood, Director 
Elizabeth McCormick Memorial Fund, Chi- 
cago, 111.; The Relation of the Home Eco- 
nomics Teacher to the Health of the Com- 
munity, Dr. E. A. Peterson, Director 
Department of Health Service, American 
Red Cross, Washington, D. C. 

The morning will be given to visiting 
schools and other places of interest to home 
economics teachers. It is hoped that those 
who come to the A. H. E. A. meeting may 
be able to stay over. 

The Meeting of the Home Economics 
Division of the American Association of 
Agricultural Colleges and Experiment 
Stations has become so important an event 
in the home economics world that many 
have thought it to be a session of the Ameri- 
can Home Economics Association. A few 
years ago this section was only a small 
informal gathering holding a single session 
at the meeting of the Agricultural College 
93 



94 



THE JOURNAL OF HOUE ECONOMICS 



[February 



Association. At the meeting in November, 
1919, it offered a full program for twoafter- 
nooDS and served as a meeting place for a 
large number of home economics people. 
Agnes Harris of Texas was chairman of the 
section, and Inga M. K. Allison of Colorado, 
secretiiry. 

The first speaker, Abby Marlatt of the 
University of Wisconsin, read an able paper 
on the Unification of Subject Matter in 
Teacher Training Courses in Vocational 
Home Economics, Extension Work, and 
Research. Beginning with a brief review of 
the aim, methods, and subject matter used 
in teaching home economics as a basis for 
discussion, she made a keen analysis of the 
failures in many departments of the work, 
and gave suggestions for remedies. The 
next speaker. Bertha Terrill, of the Univer- 
sity of Vermont, gave, in delightful English, 
a vigorous defense of The General Course in 
Home Economics for the undergraduate 
college student. Mildred Wcigley, in her 
paper on Vocational Experience, asked the 
pertinent questions, What does vocational 
experience mean? How are we to know 
whether the vocational experience demanded 
of our students is adequate? At what pwint 
in the course should vocational experience 
be required? These must be answered by a 
careful analysis of our present curricula and 
courses. Edna White, president of the A. 
H. E. A., presented The Legislative Program 
of the Association, and Isabel BeWer 
reported as the ch.iirman of the committee 
on plans and policies of the home economics 
section. 

The first paper on Thursday was by Alice 
Loomis of the University of Nebraska, who 
spoke upon The Relationship of the Train- 
ing of Teachers of Home Economics in Agri- 
cultural Colleges to the State Super\'ision of 
Home Economics under the Vocational Acts. 
She recommended a further cooperation 
between the state supervisor and the teacher 
trainer. Dr. Edwin O. Jordan of the Uni- 
versity of Chicago spoke upon Food-Borne 
Infections, giving the latest results of the 
study of botulism and other food infections. 
Dr. Blunt of the University of Chicago pre- 



sented a paper on The Present Status of 
Vitamines that was published in the January 
Jol^K.NAL. Dr. Minna Denton gave a most 
interesting extract of a report on the Absorp- 
tion of Fat by a Dough or Batter when 
Fried in Deep Fat. The full paper will be 
publislied soon in the JouttNAi.. Margaret 
Sawyer gave a review of the work of the 
Red Cross in supplying dietitians, and out- 
lined the Plans for Public Health Dietetic 
Work. Florence Ward of the States Rela- 
tions Service gave a report of The Accom- 
plishment of Home Demonstration Agents 
of the North and West. 

The officers chosen for the coming year 
were Abby L. Marlatt, chairman, and Mil- 
dred Weigley, secretary. 

The Journal made a request tliat it be 
allowed to print as many of these papers as 
possible. 

The Home Economics Section of the 
Central Association of Science and 
Mathematics Teachers met at the Lake 
View High School, Chicago, in connection 
with the whole society, on the Friday and 
Saturday after Thanksgiving. The first 
session was devoted to reports from the 
"Committee on Reconstruction" — a pro- 
cedure followed in all the sections. Mabel 
Trilling of the University of Chicago, chair- 
man of the committee, outlined the work 
of the home economics committee and 
its relation to the educational research 
committee of the A. H. E. A. of which she 
is also chairman. Helen C. Goodspeed, 
State Supervisor of Home Economics, gave 
a report for Wisconsin; Florence Williams, 
Supervisor of Industrial Am, Richmond, 
Ind., discussed Tests as an ."Vid in Formulat- 
ing the Course of Study, and Rosa Biery of 
the University of Chicago Elementary and 
High Schools, in a pajjer on Economics in 
the Home Economics Course, described the 
work which she does with her high school 
seniors. 

The next morning, Minnie L. Volk, 
South High School, Columbus, Ohio, opened 
the meeting with an interesting and stimu- 
lating paper on Correlation of Art and 



1920] 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



95 



Household Art. Following her came Emma 
Francis of the Battle Creek Sanitarium, who 
meantime had been lent to the Biology 
Section, with her exhibit of rats on different 
experimental diets. She showed them in 
pairs or groups, pointing out, for instance, 
the marked difference in size and vigor 
betvveen rats held for as short a time as 3 
weeks, on a diet with or without milk — 
striking material for teaching the value of 
milk to mothers and children. A satis- 
factory sequel to the rat discussion was the 
paper by Mary E. Freeman, an elementary 
school teacher in the Chicago Public Schools, 
on Malnutrition in Cliildren and What the 
School Can Do to Overcome It — an account 
of her own encouraging work to improve the 
health of her sixth grade through teaching 
better health habits in general and espe- 
cially food. Of her 49 pupils she found that 
30 drank coffee for breakfast and only 15 
had milk; but after a month of the class 
discussion the coffee number had dropped 
to 19 and the milk risen to 26. 

The officers elected for next year are: 
chairman, Miss Harriet Glendon, Lewis 
Institute; vice-chairman. Miss Treva Kauff- 
man, Ohio State University; secretary. 
Miss Maude Firth, Supervisor of Home 
Economics, Davenport, Iowa. 

Will Some County Agent Reply? A 
writer in the Atlantic Monthly says: ''What 
is the Government doing for us? Set- 
ting the price on wheat and sending us 
county agents to tell our husbands how to 
kill jack-rabbits, and women county agents 
to tell us farm women how to make a dress 
out of our flour sacks. That latter was all 
right during the war, but I wonder if that 



county agent didn't find out that we farm 
women, long before the war, were compelled 
to use our flour sacks for underwear because 
the middleman was buying silk underwear 
for his wife?" — Annie Pike Greenwood, in 
" Letters from a Sage-brush Form." 

A Lunch Room Management Course 
was introduced at Purdue University last 
year as an experiment. It proved successful 
and will be extended this year. New equip- 
ment is being added, thus incurring a debt 
which gives a real problem of the kind that 
every beginner in lunch room work must 
meet. Next year the course will be ex- 
panded into a cafeteria in the New Woman's 
Building where the general public will be 
served. 

Two lunches are served each week, aver- 
aging forty-five servings in each. Two 
managers work out every detail of the 
lunch, plan the menu, order the supplies, 
keep an accurate itemized account, adver- 
tize their menu, prepare the main dishes, 
keep paid help employed with routine work 
to good advantage (a problem that every- 
one who takes up lunch room work must 
meet), direct the three girls from the class 
appointed as helpers for the morning work, 
and manage the ser\Tng. The three help- 
ers assist only during the day that the lunch 
is served. 

Last year the course proved a financial 
success, for the class was able to buy silver, 
dishes, and a tea wagon. This year we are 
starting, out with a deficit of $93.00 for 
aluminum trays, and later another one will 
be added when more silver and dishes are 
purchased. 



96 THE JOURNAL OP HOME ECONOMICS (February 

OMICRON NU' 

UNA VERMILLION 
National Editor 

Our organization is unfortunately somewhat late in utilizing our space in 
the Journal. It will require effort and coo(jeration on the part of each indi- 
vidual member, alumnae included, to make these pages a success. Should 
any of our members— whether active or not — ever feel that they have some- 
thing worth while to contribute to our undertaking they will find that any 
and all contributions or suggestions will be heartily appreciated. 

The present national oflicers of our organization, elected last spring at the 
fourth annual Conclave of the Grand Council of the Omicron Nu Society, 
are as follows: President, Marion S. V'an Liew (Beta); Vice President, Hazel 
Manning (Eta); Secretary, Emily Hamilton (Beta); Treasurer, Marjory 
Williams (Alpha); Editor, Una Vermillion (Iota). 

Lambda chapter was installed at the Oregon Agricultural College, Corvallis, 
Oregon, on May 30, 1919. Mrs. H. J. Gramlick of Lincoln, Nebraska, was 
the installing officer. 

Dean Ava. B. Milam, A. Grace Johnson, and Hatty R. Dahlberg were 
elected faculty members. Helen Lee Davis and Mary Van Kirk, were 
transferred from Zela chapter at Lincoln, Nebraska. 

Nineteen student members were elected, four from the junior class to hold 
the organization together and carry it over to the following year. This fall 
eight new members were elected from the present senior class. The officers 
are Helen C. Gardner, president; Ruth Kennedy, vice-president; Hazel Kesley, 
secretary'; Marie Mendenhall, treasurer; and Ruth E. Peaslee, editor. 

Helen C. Gardner was sent as delegate from this chapter to the national 
conclave held at Albany, New York, June 18-21, 1919. 

A Letter Directory Jor Omkron Nu. Last spring the Omicron Nu at Purdue 
University decided to send out a Letter Directory to everj- Omicron Nu 
member, both alumnae and active. This brief Directory contained the names 
of all the members, their addresses, and an article concerning their work. 
Our chapter was also discussed, stressing the work that the girls had done 
during the year. A card was inserted for each member to return, giving a 
full account of her work, in order to secure material for a more detailed direc- 
tory next spring. 

• Omicron Nu is the honorary home economics sorority. The first chapter was formed at 
Michigan Agricultural College in 1912. 



Vol. XII. No. 3 Mahch, 1920 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemaking, Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

Mks. Aucs p. Nokton, Editor Ketdrab £. Bau>ww, Busincjt EdiUf 

Editorial Board 
Mas. Makt H. Abkl C. F. Lancwobthy Ethelwyn Millxi Rdth Wbeelei Amy Danizu 

Em-Ojficio Mtmbtrs — Edna N. Whitx, President American Home Economics AssociatloD 
Elsie Leonard, Chairman Institution Economics Section 
Kathaiine Blunt, Chairman Science Section 
Mauik FiuNcH, Chairman Extension Education Section 
Mabel Trilling, Chairman Textile Section 

CoUaboralon — The Officere, Members of the Council, and Advisors 



CONTENTS 

\\ HAT We Hav-e Learned in Dietetics from the Army John R. Mtirlin 97 

K I CENT Work of the Committee on the Standardization of Textiles 101 

I ii:i: and Water in the Class-Room Anna Barrows 110 

AiiSDRPTiON of Fat by Fried Batters and Doughs, and Causes of Variation 

Minna C. Denton, Edith Wengel and Louise Pritchett 1 1 1 

II R, 12078 127 

Is THE Average Home Sanitary? 130 

Home Economics in a Primitive Armenian Village Hester D. Jenkins 131 

A ( ouRSE for Practice in Homemaking Ad;ustments 133 

I iiiii>i;i\i 134 

I II \TA 136 

Hi I' IKS AND Literature . . . . , , , 137 

Bibliography of Home Economics 139 

Xkws prom the Field 141 



Tbs Joukkal of Home Economics is published monthly by the Americ&n Home Economics A&socialion. 

%1M A YEAR. FOREIGN 12.35. CANADIAN »2.JI. SINGLE COPIES J5 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. KemitlancM thould be lent by Check, Eiprcsi Order or Postal Money Order, payable to th« 
American Home Economics Association. Currency, unless mailed in a registered letter, is at the sender's risk. 

NOTICE When payment is made by check no receipt will be sent unless requested. 

CHANGE IN APDRESS. Notice 01 change in address should be sent Two Weeks before the dale of issue on whick 
the chan(e is to take eflect. The subscriber's Old Address should be clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 1211 Cathedral St., Baltmom, Md. 

Toe JooiMAL or Hoira Economics is on sale at John Wanamaker's, Philadelphia; The Old Comer Book Store, Boatoa; 

A, C. McClurg's, Chicafo; Baltimore News Company, Baltimore; Woodward and Lothrop. Waatungto« 



JUVKSAL OF llOUE ECO\OUlCi,—ADVhRTlSEUE\T^ 



Good Health and Good Food 

make it doubly important to use 
Royal Baking Powder 




Absolutely Pure 

Royal gives to plain and fancy baking 
that supreme touch of quality that makes 
home-baking so satisfying that it takes 
the place of more expensive food. 

Royal contains no alum — leaves no 
bitter taste — never disturbs digestion. 

"BAKE IT WITH ROYAL AND BE SURE" 



In writing advertisers, please mention Journal of Home Economic* 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vot. XII MARCH, 1920 No. 3 

WHAT VVE HAVE LEARNED IN DIETETICS FROM THE 
ARMYi 

JOHN R. MURLIN 

Director of^ the Department of Vital Economics, University of Rochester; Late Director oj the 
Division of Food and Nutrition, Medical Department, U. S. Army 

The Dixdsion of Food and Nutrition in the Medical Department of 
the Army was formed for the purpose of safeguarding the nutrition of the 
soldiers. In every previous war, the army has been subjected to some 
form of nutritional privation. In the Revolutionary- War there really 
was not enough food to go around. In the war of 1812 the army was 
plagued with a contractor system for supplying the provisions, which 
placed a great premium on dishonesty. As a consequence, the army 
suffered greatly from want of enough food, and, because of ignorance of 
dietetics, or, more properly, the science of nutrition, the food which it 
did get was not varied enough or fresh enough to insure good health. 
Scurvy was very common. Calhoun, as Secretary of War, adopting 
the suggestions of the first Surgeon-General, corrected these defects to 
a large extent in 1818. 

In the Mexican War the anny was able to li\c largely upon the 
country in which it was operating, and the abundance of fruit and wine 
prevented scurvy; but the sanitary care of foods, as well as of the 
camps in general, was very poor, and much dysentery resulted. 

In the Civil War the Medical Department for the first time was 
charged with a share of the responsibility for the proper feeding of troops. 
But this authority was not conferred until 1863. Previous to that time, 

' Presented at the Second Annual Convention of the /Vmerican Dietetic Association, 
Cincinnati, September, 1919. Also printed in the Modern Hospital, Januar>-, 1920. 

97 



98 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS (March 

especially in the Peninsular Campaign, there was much scur\'y and 
sickness of other sorts resulting from improper food. Surgeon John 
Letterman, Medical Director of the Army of the Potomac, upon his 
appointment, immediately took measures to correct the deficiencies of 
the ration. He was one of the greatest sanitarians the army ever had 
and ranks with Lowell, the lirst Surgeon-General, and our own beloved 
General Gorgas. 

Finally, the Spanish-American War, which brought Gorgas his oppor- 
tunity to study the transmission of disease by mosquitoes, was charac- 
terized, as many of us remember well, by the "embalmed beef" scandal. 
Looking back upon the tiny little war of '98, we sec now what a tempest 
in a teapot it was. There really were few cases of serious poisoning by 
improperly processed canned meats; but in all probability the so-called 
canned "roast" beef, used in the travel ration as a substitute for canned 
corned beef, was responsible for much diarrhoea and consequently con- 
tributed to the lack of resistance to typhoid which was the real curse 
of that war. The chief difficulty lay in sending to the semi-tropical 
climate of Florida and Cuba canned stuff which had been processed for 
northern climates. Much of the meat spoiled and smeUed badly and 
made a pestilential scandal for itself and for that part of the press which 
loves to handle putrescent news. What was really learned by this un- 
pleasant experience in 1898 was the need of adequate inspection of 
foods, not only when they are purchased by the Supply Department, 
but also at the mess before they are used by the cook. 

To avoid the mistakes of the Spanish-.^merican War. as well as of 
the Cixal War — to go no further back — General Gorgas organized in his 
department this Division of Food and Nutrition, which should make 
frequent inspections of food conditions in the camps and in the field, 
should seek to improve the cooking and serving of the food, and should 
study constantly the suitability of the ration. 

WTiat we have learned about army dietetics may be summarized 
briefly as follows: 

(1) We know "now for the first time, not only the a\-erage require- 
ment of food by the soldier in training, but also the range of this require- 
ment.^ 

(2) We know about how much the soldier eats outside the mess and 
that he will eat it no matter how good the mess may be.' 

'Cf. Murlin and Hildebrandt: Average Food Consumption in the training camps of the 
U. S. Army. Amer. Jour. Physiol, Sept., 1919, p. 531. 



1920] WHAT WE HAVE LEARNED FROM THE ARMY 99 

(3) The average daily consumption of each food so that an average 
dietary or ration built upon exact information can now be written.^ 

(4) The average composition of the food actually eaten in the mess.* 

(5) The variation in food consumption in different seasons of the 
year.^ 

(6) The surprising variations in food consumption in different com- 
pany messes of the same regiment doing identically the same physical 
work, the variation depending, apparently, upon the psychology of the 
mess rather than upon the physiology thereof. Likewise a surprising 
variation in the amount consumed by the same company from week to 
week, the external factors, such as temperature and work, remaining 
essentially the same.' 

(7) The average consumption by different classes of patients in the 
army hospitals.^ 

(8 The preponderance of acid ash in the ration, as prescribed and 
as actually eaten, with the accompanying danger, in combination with 
excessive muscular fatigue, of an accumulative acidosis.' 

(9) The surprising fact that a corrective diet prescribed by the 
hospital surgeon has nearly always a basic ash.* 

(10) And finally, a possible relationship between diet and suscepti- 
bility to infection, which must be studied further.'" 

The garrison ration of the army in force when this war began was an 
excessive one. The basal portion of it, 18 ounces of bread and 20 
ounces of beef, dates from 1794, when the only other component with 
energy value was whiskey. In 1818 one-half pint of beans was added, 
and whiskey was changed to molasses for making spruce beer. In 
1832, liquors were ehminated entirely and coffee and sugar were substi- 
tuted. In 1861, a pound of potatoes was added and beans were reduced. 
In 1898, tomatoes were added — none of the other components being 
reduced; in 1901, prunes; in 1908, jam, evaporated milk, butter, and 
lard. I have not mentioned the seasoning materials, salt, pepper, and 
extracts. Salt and vinegar have been present from the beginning; 
pepper since 1864, and extracts since 1908. 

It should not be understood that the soldier in the late war has eaten 
all of this, although like a good sport he has tried. The ration is, and 

• Howe, Mason, and Dinsmore: Variation in Strength and in the Consumption of Food 
by Recruits and Seasoned Troops. Ibid., p. 557. 

•Hoskins: American Military Hospital Dietaries. Ibi<l., p. 578. 

' lilatherwick: Note on the Acid-Base Balance of Army Rations. Ibid., p. 567. 



100 THE JOURNAL OF HOU£ ECONOMICS [March 

should be, liberal, partly to offset excusable inefficiency in hasty mobili- 
zation and unavoidable wastes. You cannot make cooks over night, 
especially out of male Americans. The school for bakers and cooks in 
the army has succeeded in making them, and some very good ones too, 
in two months. 

But no man can eat the entire American army ration day in and day 
out. The average amount of meat of all kinds actually eaten in the 
training camps in this country was 13.5 ounces instead of 20 ounces as 
provided by the ration; 7 ounces of bread instead of 18; 13 ounces of 
potatoes instead of 16. But with free choice of foods such as they had 
in the camps, the average soldier ale more beans, more fruit, more milk, 
more butter, drank more coffee and seasoned it with more sugar than 
the ration prescribes. Therefore the ration should be revised in these 
directions. This could have been done a year and a half ago with a 
saving of 3 cents a day for each soldier — amounting to an enormous 
sum of money for an army of 4,000,000 men in a very short time. In- 
stead of revising the ration, however, the General Staff saw fit to with- 
draw the privilege of "savings," as it was called, — by which whatever 
remained of the money allowance to which an organization was entitled, 
was paid in money and could be spent for such extra things as the mess 
sergeant might select,— and now requires all purchases to be made by the 
Quartermaster upon requisition. This has worked a considerable hard- 
ship upon the hospitals, for it has made more difficult the selection of 
suitable foods for particular cases. 

Notwithstanding some abuses of the savings system, however, the 
ration system in vogue has, under close inspection and supervision, 
worked well, — much better than in any previous war. The men have, 
except in very emergent circumstances exigent upon their military 
duties, always had enough to eat and of such quality that no cases of 
deficiency disease have been reported, and, with almost negligible excep- 
tion, no cases of other disease in any way traceable to the food. 



1920] STANDARDIZATION OF TEXTILES 101 

RECENT WORK OF THE COMMITTEE ON THE 
STANDARDIZATION OF TEXTILES 

So general an interest has been manifested by home economics women 
in the progress of the Committee on the Standardization of Textile 
Fabrics, and so much cooperation and encouragement has been given 
us, that we gladly accept the editor's ofTer of space for a brief chronicle 
of our work up to date, although by the first of March we shall be a 
whole month older and shall have added another chapter to our history. 

The Committee on the Standardization of Textile Fabrics was ap- 
pointed by the Textile Section at the Annual Meeting of the American 
Home Economics Association last June, and started in Ufe with excellent 
resolutions and the backing of the entire Association.' To the six orig- 
inal members of the Committee have been added Elizabeth Weirick, 
director of the Sears, Roebuck textile testing laboratory, and Marie 
Sellers, household editor of the Pictorial Review Magazine. There is an 
Advisory Committee numbering nearly forty and representing twenty 
States. Advisory Committee members are carrying on the Study of 
Purchasing Habits outlined below; bringing the committee program 
before state home economics associations, state federations of women's 
clubs, and organizations of consumers generally; carrying on laboratory 
tests; securing samples for wearing tests; giving us educational pubhcity; 
and holding up the hands of the Central Committee in other ways too 
numerous to mention. Every member of . the two committees is a 
worker, and each has had or will have an important share in the sum 
total of the Committee's activities. 

The first happening of major importance was a conference in New 
York on October 10 and 11, 1919, attended by seven members of the 
Central Committee. The object of this meeting was to hear from 
representative textile manufacturers, retailers, and others some of the 
difhculties that were sure to beset our way. We hoped also to get con- 
structive suggestions. There were present two silk manufacturers, a 
cotton manufacturer, a consulting expert in silk manufacture who was 
experienced in woolen manufacture, a famous textile chemist, and a 
man in close touch with large retail interests in a number of leading 
cities. We also met the secretary of the Retail Dry Goods Association 
of New York City. At this meeting skepticism on the part of the trade 

' Sec "Some Suggestions from the Textile Section" in the Journal for September, 1919. 



102 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

representatives gradually changed to interest, and much valuable infor- 
mation was received. 

The Committee came to agree with the manufacturers that in all 
probability the constructive way to deal with the question of standards 
was to propose minimum standards based on manufacturing specifica- 
tions and on wearing and laboratory tests, and to mark fabrics that met 
or surpassed these standards so that they could be recognized by con- 
sumer and salesperson, rather than to develop and push a few fabrics 
precisely meeting a proposed standard and, in so doing, ignore or deny 
recognition to fabrics that more than met the standard. Our conferees 
pointed out very sensibly that this latter course would tend to prevent 
the support of the very class of manufacturers and dealers on whom 
we were counting for cooperation. 

We therefore register our conversion, on October 10, 1919, to the doc- 
trine of minimum standards. 

We wish to make plain, as we had to make plain again and again in 
the conference, that, in proposing a movement for the adoption of 
minimum standards of quality for textile fabrics, we are not proposing 
to destroy or diminish the value of the indixidual trademark or neces- 
sarily to reduce the number of different fabrics on the market. We are 
aiming to provide for the intelligent consumer, who desires or is obliged 
to spend her money to the best advantage, a sort of clothing insurance, 
assurance if you please, that will enable her, without pre\ious training 
in textiles, to pick out materials sure to give real service for a defmite 
use, and thus guard her from loss of money and material that she can ill 
afford. Conditions in the textile market to-day make the need for such 
protection and guidance greater than ever before. We believe that 
these same conditions have laid a strong basis for support of such a 
movement by thoughtful consumers. 

We are quoting from our earlier article' when we say that such a 
movement cannot be fully developed in a day or a year, nor by radical 
or destructive methods. It cannot be developed at all except by the 
intelligent and sjTnpathetic understanding and cooperation of all parties 
concerned — the manufacturer, the jobber, the garment maker, and the 
retailer, as well as the consumer. It should in time be possible to 
secure such cooperation because standardization, like other forms of 
insurance, will be of mutual benefit to the consumer, the seller, and the 
producer. 



1920] STANDARDIZATION OF TEXTILES 103 

Following this conference the Committee formulatcfl the following 
list of problems to be grappled with : — lack of laws protecting the con- 
sumer of textiles and clothing from misrepresentation; ignorance or 
indifference of a large proportion of women and girls to clothing prob- 
lems so that yard goods and ready-made clothing are selected largely 
on the basis of surface finish, color, and cut, and there is extravagant 
expenditure for dress; lack of data on which to base suggestions for 
minimum standards; need for determining the most effective way of 
identifying fabrics that reach or pass the minimum standard: indiffer- 
ence and possible antagonism of the trade. 

In December and January the Committee sent out to Advisor>' Com- 
mittee members, and certain others, mimeographed copies of its Position 
and Program,^ which served the several purposes of crystallizing our 
convictions and plans, placing us on record before the world, and unify- 
ing the preaching of apostles in divers places. It is upon this program 
that the following paragraphs are based, and we bespeak the assistance 
of consumers in general and home economics people in particular in 
carrying it forward as promptly as may be. A brief report of progress 
to date is included under each section. 

Passage of protective legislation. The Committee is urging active sup- 
port of the Barkley Misbranding Bill, H. R. 2855, 66th Congress. This 
bill penalizes the misbranding of merchandise of all kinds, including 
textiles among others. The reason the passage of this bill is so vital to 
the work of the Committee is that at present there exist widespread 
practices of misrepresentation in all branches of the textile trade, entirely 
unchecked by law. There would be little to prevent unscrupulous 
persons from putting on the market goods purporting to meet any 
standard the Committee might set. This would be especially true of 
fabrics made up into ready-to-wear garments, and at our conference we 
heard with surprise that by far the greater proportion of fabrics that 
leave the manufacturer find their way into the hands of the cutting 
up trade. 

The Committee has secured the endorsement of this liill by the Leg- 
islative Committee and the Council of the Association, and Advisory 
Committee members have secured endorsement by women's clubs and 
individuals. 

' A copy of this may be obtained from the Journal Oflicc by sending 6 cents postage. 



104 Tn?: JOURNAL OK HOME ECONOincs (March 

The National Clothier for August, 1919, prints the bill in full,' and also 
discusses the British Merchandise Marks Act upon which the Barkley 
Bill is patterned. We ask you to write your representative urjjing 
favoral)le action on this bill as soon as it is reported, and to write Con- 
gressman Barkley expressing your personal interest and that of any 
group of consumers with whom you are connected. Awaken the inter- 
est of local dry goods merchants and get them to write indorsing the 
bill, which is as important to the honest merchant as it is to the consumer. 

We recently learned that the bill was drafted originally by a sub- 
committee of the Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee of the 
House about six years ago to meet requests for legislation to penalize 
the misbranding of a number of difTerent articles, including leather 
goods and various textiles. It was unanimously reported by the Com- 
mittee in the 64th Congress but failed to gain consideration on the 
floor. In the 65th Congress it was shelved for war legislation, and, 
although introduced during the present Congress and again referred to 
the Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee, it has not yet received 
their attention. Congressman Barkley expects the bill will come up for 
consideration within the next month or two, and when the hearing is 
aimounced, the Association will be represented by delegates who will 
speak in its favor. 

Encouragement of standard American dyes. The Committee also caUs 
attention to the Longworth Bill which seeks to protect and develop the 
dye industry' built up in America during the war against cut-throat 
competition by German dye stuffs manufacturers.* 

The education of women and girl consumers to appreciate and demand 
quality in yard goods and ready-made garments must come slowly 
through various avenues of home economics teaching, which include 
women's magazines and extension work as well as schools, normal 
schools, and colleges. The central ideas will be the wisdom and duty of 
a careful planning of the wardrobe on the basis of a defmite clothing 
budget, and the selection of conservative styles and reliable fabrics. 
The Committee has added its mite by securing for printing in the Jour- 
nal "Putting Over Budget Lessons," by Janet Cation, October, 1919, 
"Suggestions for a Demonstration on the Selection of Clothing," by 

' See also Textiles, July, 1919, and reference to the bill in the editorial section of the 
Journal for Dec, 1919. 

* For articles on this subject see reference list in the Bibliography, p. 140. AJso editorial, 
December Journal, p. 557. 



1920] STANDARDIZATION OF TEXTILES 105 

Zella Bigelow, February, 1920, and a "List of References of Timely 
Interest," page 139 of this issue. A further contribution is being pre- 
pared containing suggestions as to how work in textile and clothing 
selection may be incorporated in clothing courses in grammar and high 
schools. 

Study of purchasing habils. It was the skepticism of the manufac- 
turers and merchants as to the survival of the old-time "thrifty buyer" 
in numbers worth recognizing that goaded the Committee into launch- 
ing its Study of Purchasing Habits. We refused to agree that women 
purchasers as a class no longer sought for quality and durability but 
were carried away by extreme styles, beautiful colors, and surface finish. 
"This may be true to a large extent in New York," we protested. "We 
think it cannot be true the country over, but we do not ktiow, and we 
propose to find out." 

The Committee has therefore drawn up and distributed a question- 
naire supplemented by record blanks for a study of purchasing habits. 
This investigation is now being carried on simultaneously by groups 
of institutions of collegiate rank in various parts of the country to 
determine what textile fabrics are most frequently purchased for vari- 
ous common uses; what makes are considered staple in each of these 
lines ; how the demand for these staples compares with the demand for 
novelties for the same uses; the trade names of such staples, together with 
names of manufacturers and other data. The twenty-six cooperating 
institutions have been divided into six committee groups, each with 
a chairman, for the study of fabrics purchased for the six following 
uses: — service dresses (wool, silk); underskirts (silk, cotton); coat 
linings and dress foundations (silk, cotton) ; women's underwear (cotton, 
silk, not knitted); children's dresses and infants' wear (not knitted); 
household textiles. There are from four to six institutions in each 
group, and these are so located that the data collected will as far as 
possible represent country-wide conditions. 

We are expecting to secure supplementary reports from extension 
specialists in clothing, from students in salesmanship, and from certain 
retailers. 

The data gathered by the members of each group will be submitted to 
the chairman who will tabulate it and send it in to the Central Com- 
mittee in time for a report at the June meeting of the Association at 
Colorado Springs. 



106 THE JOURNAL OF HOM£ ECONOMICS [March 

Sludy of minimum standards. The Committee felt that it might be 
embarrassing to lind itself preaching minimum standards while at a 
loss for definite data as to what should constitute such standards. It 
therefore set as one of its early goals the gathering of such data for a 
limited number of fabrics: underskirt and coat lining silks, a cotton 
for lingerie that may be finished either as cambric or nainsook, and 
serge for service dresses. The plans for the silks, which are the farthest 
advanced, provide for three distinct kinds of wearing tests to be 
supplemented by laboratory tests. These are respectively the Worn 
Garment Test, in which samples of outworn underskirt and coat lining 
silks, accompanied by a data sheet giving details of wear, are collected 
for laboratory analysis and testing; the Small Piece Test, in which 
pieces of new silk so selected as to approxiniate our tentative notion of 
a minimum standard for underskirt silk arc sewed upon the garments in 
places that receive the heaviest wear, their wearing qualities recorded, 
and an unworn sample, reserved for the purpose, sent in for analysis 
and tests. We have actually begun on these two tests (February 1). 
The New Garment Test is perhaps the best and certainly the most ambi- 
tious of the three, and is not yet entirely worked out. We hope, with 
the advice and cooperation of one or more silk manufacturers, to pur- 
chase silk in standard navy blue and in black which approximates or 
surpasses our tentative standard. This silk will be made up into under- 
skirts and the skirts disposed of to women interested in the test, who 
must pledge to keep a record of wear and turn it in to the Committee 
at a certain date. Profits arising from the transaction will be used to 
finance the rapidly growing work of the Committee. 

The tests on silks are being carried out under the general direction of 
Mrs. Ellen B. McGowan of Teachers College, with the cooperation of 
Miss Ruth O'Brien of Iowa State College, Miss Trilling of Chicago Uni- 
versity, and Miss Weirick of the Sears, Roebuck Laboratory. We hope 
to report shortly on the organization of our tests for lingerie cotton 
under Miss O'Brien, and for serge under Miss Grace Denny of the 
University of Washington. 

We shall need your help with the silk tests outlined above. See details 
for the Worn Garment Test on page 109. If you arc willing to cooperate 
in other tests write Mrs. McGowan at Teachers College, specifying the 
test you select, and enclose a self-addressed, stamped envelop. Instruc- 
tions will be promptly forwarded. • 



1920] STANDARDIZATION OF TEXTILES 107 

Cooperation with organizations. Miss Sellers is presenting the idea of 
minimum standards to editors of women's magazines in New York City. 
The chairman has discussed the Committee's program with Mrs. Charles 
Greene, Director of the Home Economics Division of the General Fed- 
eration and with the editor of the Federation Magazine. The chair- 
man for the Clothing Section of the Federation, Miss Mary Matthews 
of Purdue University, is a member of our Advisory Committee. Plans 
are on foot to secure the interest of the A. C. A. and the Consumers 
League. We have offered our cooperation to the H. C. L. Division of 
the Department of Justice, and established relations with the Director 
of Women's Activities, who has sent out in mimeographed form a re- 
quest for samples for our Worn Garment Test. We urge Journal read- 
ers to keep in touch with the plans of the H. C. L. Division, which has 
some definite suggestions as to what women consumers can do to help de- 
flate clothing prices. Write to the headquarters in your state, if one has 
been established, or to Miss Edith C. Strauss, Directorof Women's Activ- 
ities, H. C. L. Division, U. S. Department of Justice, Washington, D. C. 

The Community Mo\ing Picture Bureau of New York City is prepar- 
ing under Mrs. Woolman's direction a series of films dealing with textile 
manufacture and selection. In planning these pictures Mrs. Woolman 
has had at heart the program of the Committee as well as the needs of 
the home economics student and the consumer in general. 

Method of rarrying minimum standards into effect. We are still in 
search of the simplest and most expedient method of identifying fabrics 
that have met or surpassed the minimum standard, so that consumers 
may readily recognize them. Among several possibilities, two appear 
especially promising. The first is a testing station to be maintained 
by the American Home Economics Association, which would (1) 
examine fabrics submitted to it by manufacturers and decide whether 
they met or surpassed the minimum standards proposed by the Asso- 
ciation, either independently or in cooperation with national textile asso- 
ciations; (2) authorize for such fabrics the use of a copyrighted label 
or symbol protected by a license. We have the assurance of practical 
advertising men that such a plan is fundamentally sound. The second 
possibility is a similar testing station, maintained jointly by organ- 
izations of consumers, manufacturers, and retailers. In many respects 
this second plan is a bigger and more generous one than the first, yet its 
very bigness indicates that obstacles may arise in its path. It is evi- 
dent, however, that either of these possibilities contains the germ of a 



108 THE JOURNAL OF HOU£ ECONOMICS [March 

potential research foundation lliat would conduct impartial studies of 
fabrics from the standpoint of the use they are to serve; coordinate work 
being carried on by independent agencies; and out of its experience 
make constructive and authoritative suggestions that would in the 
course of time profoundly influence the consuming public on the one 
hand and the manufacturing and merchandising world on the other. 

Conferences until the trade. Now that our preliminary work is fairly 
well blocked out we arc ready to ask for further advice and cooperation 
from the "associations of manufacturers, retailers, and jobbers" men- 
tioned in our birthday resolutions. A number of such conferences are 
being arranged for February in such centers as Chicago, New York, 
and Boston. We shall listen opcnmindedly to all suggestions, but 
before the conference closes we shall hope to drive home these two 
ideas: — 

1. It would be good business for you if you could say, "This bolt of 
goods has been submitted to the Testing Station of the American Home 
Economics Association, and they have pronounced it to equal (or surpass, 
as the case may be) the standard they have established by careful wear- 
ing and laboratory tests. It bears their symbol, and this guarantees on 
their authority that it will give you satisfactory (or unusual) wear. 
This is a sort of clothing insurance you women have been needing for a 
long time." 

2. If you accept this idea and help us work it out, you will have 
behind your rehable goods one of the biggest and most effective adver- 
tising forces in the country — the organized body of home economics 
teachers. These teachers according to the latest available figures came 
into intimate daily contact with 20,724 students in colleges and uni- 
versities in 1917, 163,826 students in high schools in 1915, 39,414 stu- 
dents in federally aided vocational schools in 1919, and many more in the 
eighteen states that have part time compulsory education laws. They 
talked face to face with hundreds of thousands of homemakers in the 
extension service cooperatively maintained by the federal government 
and the agricultural colleges in forty-eight states. They reached hun- 
dreds of thousands of women through the home economics programs of 
state federations of Women's Clubs, and they have access to millions 
of consumers every month through the articles they contribute to the 
women's magazines. These home economics teachers are themselves 
consumers; they have many avenues for influencing the consumers of 
today; and they are molding the consumers of tomorrow. As an 



1920] FIRE AND WATER IN THE CLASS-ROOM 109 

organized body they are behind this plan for minimum standards, 
because they believe it is needed by the individual consumer and by 
the country as a whole. In the long run, your interests are identical 
with those of the consumer. Can you afford not to give serious con- 
sideration to our proposition? 

Worn garment test. If you wish to cooperate, send two samples, 
each 6 by 9 inches, or the equivalent in pieces of a different shape, from 
the less worn parts of the garment, and one somewhat smaller sample 
from the most worn part to show the nature of the wear. In addition, 
fill out the Information Blank below as accurately as you can and 
enclose with the samples. 

Send blank and samples to Miss Ruth O'Brien, Dept. of Chemistry, 
Iowa State College, Ames, la. 

Information Blank 

Samples of Year of purchase 

(Coat lining, underskirt) 
From what part of garment were large samples Small samples? 

taken? 

How long did you wear this garment before the first weak places appeared: — 

About how many weeks of wear? About how many hours a day? 

About how many days a week? 

Reasons for unusually hard wear, such as: — Friction from rough or scant skirts, tight fit 

around armhole or over hips, stoutness of figure, skirt rubbing on shoes, getting flounce 

repeatedly wet, perspiration. 

Do you consider this silk gave good, medium, or poor wear? 

Give name and address of manufacturer of garment or material, if you know it 

Give trade name of garment or material, if you know it 

Name Address 

Date 



no THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

FIRE AND WATER IN THE CLASS-ROOM 

ANNA BARROWS 

What are the schools of home economics doing to show the public 
how to use fire and water intelligently? 

There are s( hools where the casual observer might judged roni the habits 
of the students that gas, hot water, and electricity were as free as air, 
costing nothing in cither labor or money. 

Even the teachers seem to feel little responsibility, and at midday all 
the electric lights may be on while the window shades are down. 

Many young women have not learned how to wash dishes clean with 
little water and are much perturbed by the conditions under which many 
demonstration lectures must be given. There is great waste of soap 
where a large quantity of water is used and the dishes are no more sterile 
than those washed in a little very soapy water and then scalded with 
actually boiling water. 

'J'he regulation of the gas burners to avoid waste in boiling, and the 
transfer of kettles to the simmering bur^e^, once they have reached the 
boiling point, saves fuel and produces a better result in the article to 
be boiled. The turning out of oven burners when three-fourths of the 
time for baking has elapsed also saves fuel and improves the product. 

The fireless and pressure cookers are used in occasional lessons, but 
even their continuous use wherever suitable saves less fuel in the end 
than the habit of lighting gas after the kettle is ready to place on the 
burner, and the turning out of the burner before removing the kettle 
from the top or the pans from the oven. 

Do all our schools for training teachers, even, show their pupils the 
monthly or quarterly cost of the fuel and water used in the class-rooms? 
Perhaps the household budgets do not always make the items as prom- 
inent as they deserve, but include them in rent. 

In the north temperate zone, what is a reasonable allowance for each 
person a year for water and for fuel for warmth and for cooking? 

Unless such instruction is given generally in our public schools, the 
art of cookery may soon depend on a few lumps of charcoal after the 
manner of southern Europe and India, where forests have been eliminated. 

The prodigal use of natural gas in this country foreshadows what may 
come in future to the users of coal and its products. 

Even where "white fuel," water electricity, is available, and the natural 
power seems inexliaustible, installation and maintenance are costly. 



1920] ABSORPTION OF FAT BY FRIED BATTERS AND DOUGHS 111 

ABSORPTION OF FAT BY FRIED BATTERS AND DOUGHS, 
AND CAUSES OF VARIATION* 

MINNA C. DENTON, EDITH WENGEL, AND LOUISE PRITCHETT 

Office of Home Economics, U. S. Department of Agriculture, Washinston, D. C. 

What is the composition of fried eggs, apples, mush, or potatoes, as 
compared with boiled? How much fat should a pound of food reasonably 
be expected to take up in frying? How many pounds of doughnuts 
should one pound of dough produce? How many teaspoonfuls, or table- 
spoonfuls, of fat in a homemade doughnut? Is it the amount of fat 
contained in them that determines the indigcstibility of doughnuts for 
many persons? Can a good quality of homemade doughnut be obtained 
which will be low in fat? 

It is indeed a difficult matter to find reliable data for the answers to 
these and other important questions upon the same subject. 

PREVIOUS EXPERIMENTAL WORK 

Table 1 is compiled from earlier work (unpublished) done at Ohio 
State University in 1915-1916 by Rose Hughes in conjunction with the 
senior author of this article. 

In general Miss Hughes found that fat absorption was about the same 
in lard as in cotton-seed oil. Some of the series she obtained seemed to 
show plainly that increase of temperature increased the fat absorption 
somewhat, provided all other factors were kept exactly the same; this, 
of course, is not the case, in practice, where increase in temperature is 
accompanied by decrease in time of cooking. 

Miss Hughes' doughnuts, which showed a moderate fat absorption 
only, increased about 10 per cent in weight as a result of frying. 

McKee,' in 1917, made doughnuts from the follo\ving recipe: H cups 
milk (340 grams) .^ a little more than 6 cups of flour (709 grams), H cups 
sugar (300 grams), 3 tablespoons C'risco (34 grams), 2 eggs' (84 grams), 
6 teaspoons baking powder (25 grams).'' 

* Published with permission of the Secretary of Agriculture. 

' Fat Absorption in Fr>-ing Doughnuts, Jour. Home Econ., Jan., 1918. 

' According to U. S. Bureau of Standards table, the standard half-pint cup is 237.5 cc. 
In that case, a "standard cup" of milk (sp. gr. 1.032) should weigh 245 grams. 

' Evidently " 2 cups" of egg for 84 grams, as printed in Miss McKee's paper, is a misprint. 
(The JotJRNAL understood that the "2 cups" referred to beaten eggs, probably yolk and 
white beaten separately. Editor's Note.) 

* Forty-eight weighings of 1 tcaspoonful of baking powders of difTerent ages, done in this 
Experimental Kitchen gave an average of 3.3 grams. 12 cans were used representing 8 
brands. But variations among different samples ran from 2.7 grams to 4.4 grams per tea- 



112 THE JOURNAL OF HOVE ECONOMICS [March 

She rolled them not quite half an inch thick (1 cm.), cut them with a 
cutter of the usual shape, about 2J inches (6.5 cm.) in diameter and with 
a center hole almost one inch (2.1 cm.) across, then fried them in deep 
fat, viz. cotton seed oil, at 200°C., for 5 minutes. She found that they 
gained in weight by cooking, since they weighed from 19 to 24 per cent 
more after frying than before -in spite of the fact that they must have 
lost a good deal of water during cooking. This water loss would |)robably 
be about 15 per cent of their weight before cooking, according to our 
own experience with mixtures of this kind, fried at that temperature 
for that length of lime. It may be calculated, from the figures which 
she gives on pages 19 and 20, that a doughnut weighing 36 grams before 
cooked and containing 1.8 grams of fat in the dough, would lose 5 grams 
of water and gain 13 grams of fat during this five minutes' frying, so 
that Us weight after cooking would be 44 grams, of which 14.8 grams, or 
about one-third, is fat. 

Morgan and Cozens' made doughnuts from a recipe varying from 
Miss McKee's, in that they used about 20 per cent less of egg and 
25 per cent more of flour. They report absorption of fat varying from 
13 per cent (on the weight of the finished product) to 21 per cent. This 
is directly comparable with 10 to 22 per cent in the Hughes doughnuts 
and with about 33 per cent in the McKee doughnut, — if we have not 
misrepresented the figures. Both the Hughes and the Morgan doughs 
are rather high in flour and show a low absorption for that reason. The 
McKee doughnuts not only were low in flour, but also were fried for 
five minutes instead of three or four. Furthermore, they were cut as 
somewhat smaller doughnuts than in the other two cases, which gives 
them more surface for absorption, in proportion to the mass of the 
doughnut. 

EXPERIMENTAL ■\VORK DONE IN THE PRESENT STtOlY 

In order to determine, if possible, the effect of different components 
of the dough and also of temperature of the hot fat on the amount of 
fat absorbed by batters and doughs during frying, the series of experi- 
ments indicated in tables 2 and 3 were performed by the authors of this 
article. The following precautions were obsers'ed. 

spoonful, though all weighings were done from measurements made by a single individual, 
whose different measurements of the same sample checked very closely. The loss of weight 
which results from aging appears to be the chief factor concerned. 

' Changes in Physical and Chemical constants of Fats used in Frying a Standard Dough, 
Jmir. Hmne Econ., Sept., 1919. 



1920] 



ABSORPTION OF FAT BY FRIED BATTERS AND DOUGHS 



113 



TABLE 1 
Amount of fal taken up during frying by various batters and doughs* 















FAT 












FAT 


ABSORP- 












ABSORP- 


TION 








TEMPER- 




TION 


BASED 




WEIGHT BEFORE 




ATURE 




BASED 


ON 


DOnCn OR BATTEE 


COOKED 


OF 
FSYINC 


OP 
FKYmC 


VAT USED 


O.S 
WEIGHT 

OP 
DODCB 


WEIGHT 

OP 

COOKED 

DODGE- 

NDT 






minutes 


degras C. 




per cent 


percent 


"Queen Fritters" (Equal parts by 


8 baUs, 19- 


6-8 


170-190 


Lard 


17-25 




weight of eggs and boiling water; \ 


30 grams 












part each of flour and butter; cooked 


each 












as mush, then eggs beaten in.) 














Same; thicker batter because cooked 


7 balls, 28- 


6-7 


180-225 


Cotton 


6-9 




longer before frj'ing. 


49 g. each 






seed oil 






"Apple Fritters" (Equal parts of 


8 fritters, 9- 


3-6 


170-225 


Cotton 


13-26 




flour, milk, and apple; J part of egg; 


39 g. each 






seed oil 






small amounts of baking powder 














and salt.) 














Commeal mush sautedf 


3 slices, \ in. 
thick, 2i- 
50 g. each 


10 




Lard 


5-8 




Commeal mush fried f 


3 slices, 1 in. 
thick, 33- 
50 g. each 


8 


185-225 


Lard 


7-9 




"Swedish timbales" (J part flour to 1 


6 timbales. 


.5 


175-200 




42-52 




part milk, about \ part eggs and y,, 


5-8 grams 












part oil, small amounts of salt and 


each 












sugar. Fried as very thin shell.) 














" Raised doughnuts' Yeast dough) 


7 doughnuts, 
cut as be- 
low; 55- 
63 g. each 


2-5 


160-190 


Lard 


7-12 




Doughnuts, three-egg. (100 grams 


8 dough- 


4 


150-215 


Lard 


11-23 


10-22 


sugar, 16 grams butter, 70 grams 


nuts, 51- 












egg, 123 grams milk, 6 grams bak- 


52 grams 












ing powder, 31 grams salt, 311 


each 












grams flour. Dough rolled i inch 














thick, cut 3 inches in diameter. 















* This table is published with the consent of Edna White, formerly Head of Home Eco- 
nomics Department, Ohio State University. 

t Other foods show more striking differences in fat absorption between the two methods. 
E. g., fried oysters absorbed 19 per cent fat, sauted 10 per cent; fried halibut cutlets 14_per 
cent, sauted 4 per cent. 



114 THK JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

Kach mixture was freshly made up jusl before using, unless explicit 
statement is made to a diflcrcnt effect. Inasmuch as many of the 
mixtures which we desired to use could not possibly be rolled and cut 
in the shape of ordinary doughnuts, it was dec idcd that a greater approx- 
imation to uniformity of shape and surface presented (and also of manip- 
ulation) would be attained by rolling the dough into a ball (if stifl); or 
by scraping it from the spoon in a single mass, if too soft to roll — since 
these soft doughs usually pufT into ball shape during the frying. In 
almost every case, 128 grams of dough for batter) was used at a single 
frying, in four balls of 32 grams each. In a very few cases, there were 
only 1, 2, or 3 balls of 32 grams each. All fryings were done for eight min- 
utes (unless otherwise stated) in an iron kettle 8 inches high and 6 inches 
wide, weighing 2083 grams (something over 4i pounds), and holding 
about 5 quarts when full, or 5 pints when half-full. The amount of tat 
used was about ^ pints, or between 1850 and 1900 grams. The "dough- 
nuts" were turned once, if possible (sometimes they refuse to be turned), 
in case they did not turn themselves; this was usually in the middle of 
the frying period, unless rapid browning of the under surface demanded 
an earlier turning. After cooking, they were thoroughly drained over 
the kettle of fat, on a wire skimmer, and were weighed within ten minutes 
after frying. The hot fat was weighed immediately after each frying, 
and the difference in weight before and after cooking of the doughnuts, 
was taken as the amount of fat absorbed by them during frying. Re- 
peated weighings of the amount of fat left on the skimmer, or taken 
up by the paper on which the doughnuts were laid, showed that this is 
only a fraction of a gram, when due care is exercised, and hence need 
not be taken into account. 

It may, however, be urged that the weight of fat remaining in the 
kettle after frying is an inaccurate measure of absorption, since the 
character of the fat is changed as a result of heating, in ways which 
change the weight of the molecule. Oxidation of the unsaturated 
carbon atoms does, of course, increase the weight of the molecule, while 
on the other hand, the splitting off of terminal carbon atoms from the 
fatty acid chain (e.g., in formation of acrolein) diminishes the weight 
of the molecule. However, a careful calculation of the maximum 
change in weight which could result from either one of these causes, 
under the conditions which obtain during frjang, shows that such changes 
must be very small indeed, in comparison to the weight of the entire 
molecule. Many successive weighings of 30 gram samples of lard and 



1920] ABSORPTION OF FAT BY FRIED BATTERS AND DOUGHS 115 

Crisco, each done after strongly heating in a platinum capsule for periods 
of one to ten minutes, during which pungent fumes were constantly 
issuing forth, showed that there was a very slight and progressively 
increasing loss in weight with each heating period. Yet under even 
these severe conditions, the change in weight amounted only to hun- 
dredths, thousandths, or ten-thousandths of a gram of fat, at each 
heating, and was therefore absolutely insignificant so far as these experi- 
ments were concerned. Furthermore, fat analyses by ether extract of 
cooked and uncooked doughs have been made for a number of these 
samples; in all cases, the results show very good agreement with those 
obtained by assuming that the gain in fat of the dough during frying 
is approximately equal to the loss in weight of the fat in the kettle. 

All flour had one thirty-second of its own weight of baking powder 
sifted twice with it, shortly before using. 

The eggs used in any given set of experiments were always broken 
and beaten together before weighing, in an effort to secure as great 
uniformity as possible, in raw materials. Similarly, milk from different 
bottles was thoroughly mixed ; the same samples of flour, baking powder, 
and fat were used throughout, unless otherwise specified. Each set of 
experimental doughnuts or fried balls was required to have its own 
control, fried at the same time as the rest of the set. By comparison of 
the controls of different sets with each other, variations in manipulation 
of ingredients or in other special conditions could be recognized, which 
otherwise might have gone unnoticed. 

"Percentage of fat absorbed during cooking" is obtained by dixdding 
amount of fat absorbed during frying by weight of dough before fried. This 
is a much fairer measure of the effect of any given constituent of the 
dough or of any detail of manipulation upon fat absorption than is the 
usual method of judging the fat absorption by analysis of the cooked 
product. For some doughs increase greatly in weight during frjdng, 
some increase ver\- little, and some actually decrease. If the water loss 
of the dough is great, absorption of five grams of fat may count for 
twice as much, expressed as percentage of finished product, as if the 
water loss were low; e.g., in Nos. 29 and 30, the fat absorption is iden- 
tical, 11.5 grams of fat having bebn taken up in each case by 128 grams 
of dough. Also the original fat content of the dough is the same. Yet 
the excessive water loss of No. 30 (explained in the table) causes the 12 
grams of fat to appear as 22 per cent of the final product, whereas in 
No. 29 it constitutes only 12 per cent. 



116 



TIIE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[March 











00 


%« 

o 


d 








o 
2 






9 - 














SJ 




m 


8 S § 


£ 


s 


g 


3 










" 




c. 










1 




1^° 


n 


") 


CN 


o 






V 


H 


> 
















^ 
•^ 


Hi 






•* 


00 








^ < 


^ 




































1 


5§Bo 


^2 


<o 


o 




■* 


o 


o 


d 


•S, 


""§ 








•-• 


•-• 






S 








































a-au 


^ 


o 


lO 


lO 


o- 






3. 


s 


Sfcog 


8 2 


^0 


00 






















(N 


5 






tr> 


o 


o 


o 


3 


^ 


2 

a 


1 


S^-^ 


^ 1 




< aS 


l^"^ 


O 


<o 


« 




to 'g 




** 's 


o 


ita2 


o 


o 




o 




<a 




1 


<s^ 


i S"! 


9 1 


- o 












00 






2 "* 

00 
to OT 




IS 

O 


gor- 


> 

I- 


^ 


Sg| 


d 


d 


d 


to 




fvi ^^ 
























<s 






















1 














">; 








.s 




s 










s 








's 




i 


• *^ 


J, 




b 


^ a 


. -"S 


^"S 




"S. 




B 


5 i 




g § 


S 3 


111 




n a Q. 


- 1 p 

rt a So 


•s 


s 


a 


& 6 


^ J 


& <a 


t' u 


^ ' "^ 


5= d F 




p 




O OJ 


(J CN 


u u 


00 


o « H 


o cs to 


u cs « 


(j C4 


-£. 






— ■>!< 


-< fO 


« fO 


•H r^ 


« to CM 


-H •«»' CN 


— ■* c4 


•1 •^ to 


1 




















•5, 


§ 




J2 a 




s? 


■c -c 


•2 S -S 


2 3 2 
(4 fc. k. 


2 3 3 


5SS 






rt rt 


H rt 




rt rt 




rt rt rt 


rt rt rt 


rt rt rt 


§ 






a a 


& a 


D. a 


a a 


o. D. a 


o. a a 


a Q. a 


C O. O. 


C5 




Sg- 


58 


28 


KS 


g8o 


u^ S "7 


°§;^ 


O Q 0\ 
lO O CN 




























la 


M 


OJ ^ 


tH ^ 


l-l 


»-. 


S " "^ 


V ^ 


I- j_ 








■w 3 


a 3 


a 3 


•§ 3 


■^ 3 '2 


" 3 -p 


i 3 -O 


^ ^ M 








eii o 


ji o 


rt o 


■5 ° 


rt o b 


^ *^ rt 


« o t: 


^ E w 








^E 


^E 


^ E 


^ E 1 


^E J 


^ U. J 


^e:5 




S 3g 1 


^ 


cs 


<o 


■* 


lO 


o 


^ 






i° 


1 a { 



















1920] 



ABSORPTION OF FAT BY FRIED BATTERS AND DOUGHS 117 

















.- "o 








ts 
























»/> 




o 






«^ 




tA 




o 




d 




<n 








Oi 

















CN 


8 




(^ 








•* 




^ 




•o 








<n 








00 








"^ 




" 












"H 




"* 




















— a 






.^ 


— 







■a H 






— 


J3 


















— 












00 t. 




CO 


•o 




K 








o 




b 




fO 








8 













' b- 






" 








U.H 






















































rt 
























"o 














60 »; 




r-j 




a 




















CM 




2j w) 




o 






!Q 




K 3 




fO 








5n 








C; 








to 




fe 






•s 











^ T3 







— 


J 




















































cs < 






c 
















































































































































Si o 
2 8 






— 


S 












-* 
















































o\ 




o 






V, 




S 3 




^ 




o 




•* 








CO 













"^ 




*"* 






<N 




■S 3 








•T3 




















"" 








.n 












Cr» 




-o 




10 





















-* 




o 


'-^ 




o 












c 




"^ 










ft ' 






^^ 




3 

— § 






S 






















-^ 























o 
•a 




>o 




|1 




■* 




J3 
3 




d 


1 






- 




■a 










- y- 




'^ 


c 








=3 « 




'^ 




T) 






O. 






" 


a 










\0 o 




oo 


lO 








-S 3 




O) 








10 


"o 








10 






to 




2 




— 


o 
Q 










a 

o 


o 


- 


3 

tS 


■5.- 
E 


00 


bo 

> 
< 






t^ 


C 

Q 






Ov 




> 




o 















00 




to 




<N 






CN 




:3 o 


•5- 


CN 




f 


8 


















" 


















^ 2 




— 


to 


i- J _ 






































































T! S, 


.g 






o 


•fl 




































•H*^ 


>> 






^ 


"o 
















e 




S 
















































^ 6 






1 


s 


f 


3 
O 


3 *J 
•"-1 

"i a 


■n" 


1 


3 


^ 

s 

? 


.3 

bo 


1 


3 


§ 




M 


3 

s 


3 


s 

a 




ll 


(j rv* 


o 


o 


rN 







ro 




o 


to 


a 







to 






(J 


cs 


10 




u to 


oJS 


— . ^ 


fo 


— 


-* 


fO 


'- 


-1- 






'^ 


Tf 


•a 





" 


•* 


to 




•^ 


•* 







« -^ 




!^ 


tn 


«i 


Ul 


WJ 


tfl 




01 


<o 




to 
a 


a> 


<n 


« 




in 


en 


a 




« <a 


m 






























































































a a. 


a 


S, 


D. 


a 


O. 


D. 




g 






1 










3 








3 




a 3 


ss 


-I* 


s 


s 


00 


o 


s 


"fci) w 


o 


8 


•0 





8 


00 


a 


^ 


8 


Oj 


ta 


S8 


ZS 
















3 -^ 


rt 








H 








60 








60 






1 § 




rt 
^ 


O 




^ 
s 


3 
o 

1^ 


■§ 8 

1 


i3 




3 
O 


1 


^ 


^ 

S 


3 


g8 


S 




§ 

E 


3 


1 

w 




S § 

Mi 

eg 52 


o. 




o 






- 








:i 








to 








•* 








>o 





118 



THE JOURNAL OF HOUE ECOMONICS 



[March 







B 


M 




■♦ 


M 


€0 




<e 




i 


•^ 




WI4 


e^ 


M> 




ri 




"H 


" 




" 












h 


^^ 




o 




- 




IS 




j5 




it 




u 


M 








cS 




CN 




g< 


5- 




















a^u 


T 


















»sl 




"f 




r^ 


lO 






^ 




«. 






"^ 




" 








3s^ 
2i§ 


T 


0\ 




00 


2 






o> 




I 










<^ 








W) 




















Ouou 


1 
i 


•o 




o 


•o 


«o 




lO 




5§S = 


00 




6 


f^ 


^ 




<N 




■""§ 


^ 




~ 


"" 


"" 




























ijl 


d 


i 




- 


2 


^ o** 




- 










C*J 






CM 'm 




§-"8- 








s 




^s 


























1 


aSd 


1 






o 




O 




Jl 


■E 




J. 


CI 




m S 


o> 


CN S 




o 

3 


<? 


ta- 


s. 


" 




"1 




lO 




I 
Id 


5oP 


8 






lO 


? 


5|S 


00 




*" i 


o 


a 




2§ 


H 








*1 




i> 




■s 




^ 








g 




e 

o 




1 




< o •< 


1 


o 




'^S 


■* 


"^a 




o 55 




















•* 








fO 






fj "^ 




£ QS 


«. 
































































3 






















§ 






ki 


^ u 


3 ^r. 


S 3 


tm 


»— 3 t- 




^ 






a 


|| 


:. water 

! c. flou 

; c. SUg! 

eggs 


milk 
c. flo 

C. SU( 

eggs 


if u 


I'l 


c. milk 
3 c. flo 
c. suga 
eggs 




s 






y W 


O fO lO 


6 CN 


o 




D 






CJ 




-32" 


— Tji O <•> 


" •* 


T-l p»5 


«■>»«<»> 




•< 






iS 


■n m 


:3 2 s s 


<n m m CO 


ai m 


M m 


<«».«» 




s 






In 


1^ i-4 


M ^ b« In ,_^ 








'C 'i^ tX b 










CS 


nl 01 -2- 




ra ea rt rt '^^ 












bO 




D. 


O. O. 3 


a c. a a 3 


a a a a 3 


a a 


Q. h. 3 


o. d a a 






% 




5 


O 00 O 

o f«5' ra 


SS2S« 


O O C^ QC O 
Ul O — <N <= , 


°§ 


00 cc o 
f^ tN <= 


C Q oo 00 

lO O fO CN 






>. 






—' M 


— bO 


— M 




tc 








n 






Flour 
Sugar 
(Stron 


Water 

Flour 

Sugar 

Egg 

(Stron 


Milk 

Flour 

Sugar 

Egg 

(Stron 


^ fa 


Sugar 

Egg 

(Stron 


Milk 
Flour 
Sugar 
Egg 




M 




vO 




^ 


00 


o> 




o 




g°ss 




~ 




■" 








CM 




z 


« 



















1920] ABSORPTION OF FAT BV FREED BATTERS AhfD DOUGHS 119 



_ -c "S 
5 (K ° 



(J fO U -w *- 

^ -^ ^ ^ CN CS 



^ S Si M ? ^ 
(^ U< cn W M (/3 



5 : 



j3 £ " 



60 i^ 3 ^ 

lo 3^ ■*-• 

*' = E -a 

a "5 J2 8 



« 5 5. >.-« S? 

I i .§ :S U 2 



u> a. 



2 -o 

- ^ fi a 

— — o — 
3 " '"- Si 

3 c — u 



o -5 



■n s & 



rt ^ _- ^ 



II 

E & 
o " 

i 60 



•^ ^ -2 ^ 



e- 2 



3 ^ -S -5 

8 Uh ^ < 
S & . 

. E^ « 
S § 



« a 

.2 "S 



120 



THE JOURNAL OK HOME ECONOMICS 



[March 



TAULE .1 
Viirying lime and Itmperalure 



25 



lUTEUAU USED 



By wci(ht By nuaiure 



Milk 34 parts 
I'lour 100 parts 
Sugar 42 parts 
Ivgg 19 parts 
Hutter 6 parts 
Salt 2 parts 

Milk 40 parts 
Flour 100 parts 
Sugar 34 parts 
Egg 8 parts 
Lard 4 parts 
Salt 0.7 parts 

Milk- 50 parts 
Flour 100 parts 
Sugar 34 parts 
Egg 30 parts 
Butter 10 parts 
Baking powder 



1 c. milk - 
6.3 c. flour 
1.5 c. sugar 
3 eggs 
3 T. butter 
3 tsp. salt 

1 c. railk 
5.5 c. flour 
1 c. sugar 

1 egg 

2 T. lard 
1 tsp. salt 

1 c. milk 
4.2 c. flour 
O.S c. sugar 

3 eggs 

3 T. butter 

4 tsp. B. P. 



(Dougli could easily be " patted out" into a sheet 

but did not roll easily.) 
(Fried at 195 to ISS^C. for 6 minutes only.) 



Same as No. 24, but dough stood 
IJ hours after mixed, before 
being fried I 

Same as No. 24, except that water 
replaced milk. Stood 15 hours 
before fried I 

Same as No. 26, except that half 
the flour was replaced by com 
sLirch. Stood two hours 

■| 
Same as No. 27 except that water 
was replaced by milk. Stood 
two hours I 

Water 100 parts' 1 c. water 
Flour 100 parts | 2.1 c. flour 



ll 






200 






puetnt 
43 






ftrctul 

22 



^1 



1% 



ptrcm 

40 



150 



6.7 10 200 19 13 206 24 
(Fried immediately after dough was mixed.) 



206 



16.7 



4 


185 


11 


9 


290 


4 


185 


9 


11 


280 


4 


185 


16 


5 


270 


4 


185 


19 


10 


280 


8 


200 


9 


29.0 


214 



*The volume of these balls was too great to be measured in the 1000 cc. graduated 
cylinder. 



1920] ABSORPTION PF FAT BY FRIED BATTERS AND DOUGHS 

TABLE i-CoHtinurd 



121 





UATKKULS DSED 




a 

IS 
s § 

li 


a a 

pi 




3 

si 


P 


3 


p 


By weight 


By measure 


5^5 






percent 


minutes 


de;rees 
C. 


percent 


percent 


«. 


percml 


30 


Same as No. 29, but cooked nine 
minutes over hot water, before 




8 


200 


9 


43.0 


120 


22 




frying, t 


















31 


Water 50 parts 
Flour 100 parts 


1 c. water 
4.2 c. flour 


0.7 


8 


200 


4.3 


18.0 


189 


6 


32 


Same as No. 31, but stood IJ 
hours before being fried. t 

1 




8 


200 


2.2 


9.0 




3 


33 


1 
Same as No. 31, but half of the 
flour was replaced by equal 
weight of cornstarch. Explo- 
sion as in 32 




8 


200 


3.0 


17.0 




4 


34 


Same as No. 33, but 51 grams of 
dough were fried, as two ring- 
shaped doughnut-like pieces, 
instead of in two balls as usual. 
Explosion occurred neverthe- 
less 1 




8 


200 


12.0 


25.0 




14 


35 


Water 100 partsi 1 c. water 


3.7 


8 


200 


29.0 


38 




35 




Flour 100 parts 


2.1 c. flour 


















Egg 30 parts 


1.6 eggs 
















36 


Same as No. 35 but flour and 
water were cooked over hot 
water nine minutes. Water 
lost during this cooking was 
restored. Egg and baking 
powder were added when mush 
was cool 




8 


200 


11.0 


36 




17 


37 


Same as No. 35 but half the flour 
was replaced by equal weight 
of cornstarch. This made a 
verj' thin batter which scat- 
tered badly and tended to 
settle to the bottom during 
frying, thus presenting very 
large amoimt of surface for 
absorption 




8 


200 


55.0 


56 




58 



122 



THE JOURNAL OF HOUE ECONOMICS 



(March 



TABLE i-Cndmitd 



MATKUAU Olio 



By weight 



By meiturc 



Same as No. 37, but cooked as in 
No. 36. Cooking thickened 
the batter and it held together 
well I 



SB 



f€r cent minuUs 

8 



h 


a 

2- 


w 

* 




ditrmt 
C. 

200 


tttcmU 

6.5 


ttramt 
30 


ec. 



le- 
ss 

3 



El 



11 



t Baking powder was lost as a result of this cooking process, and the balls, having lost 
their leavening, and being quite dense in texture, remained submerged for 7 minutes. This 
accounts for the high water loss. But it will be observed that the gluten crust formed by 
the hot fat successfully resisted the entrance of excessive fat into the dough, in spite of the 
long submersion, for its fat absorption is no higher than that of Xo. 29. 

X Two of the 4 balls c.rploded violently as a result of steam rapidly formed at this high 
temperature and rigidly confined by the hard crust. As a result of the explosion, much fat 
was lost out of the pan. Results were calculated from fat analysis of the cooked balls, two 
of which left the pan at the end of six minutes. 

"Percentage of water lost during cooking" is calculated by sub- 
tracting the 'ivciglil of fat absorbed duriui:, frying from the weight of dough- 
nut after cooked, then subtracting this difTerence from weight of doughnut 
before cooked, then dividing this water loss by the weight of doughnut 
before cooked. 

The following conclusions are deducted from tables 2 and 3 and from 
a considerable body of other work which has since been done with 
"Queen Fritters" and with doughnuts. 

1. In general, the higher fat absorption occurs with a greater volume 
attained by the dough during frj-ing. 

2. The difTerences in absorption of these doughs when fried at 150° 
and 200°C. are rather marked as a rule and almost absolutely consistent. 
The lower temperature shows the higher fat absorption in doughs and 
batters made without egg; the reverse is true in egg batters and doughs. 
This is partly because the volume is larger at 150° in most cases where 
no egg is used, and larger still at 200° when it is used. But it is partly 
also because the crust formation (due to action of hot fat on the gluten 
and also upon other dough constituents to some extent) proceeds more 
rapidly at the higher temperature, unless the egg prevents rapid crust- 
formation because of its highly extensile properties. It is not to be 
assumed, however, from these experiments, that like differences in 



1920] ABSORPTION OF FAT BY FRIED BATTERS AND DOUGHS 123 

absorption would occur with all other doughs; nor with these same doughs 
fried for shorter intervals in different forms, such as that of the ring- 
shaped doughnut. In fact, our later experimental work shows that at 
temperatures which are properly used for frying any ordinary doughnut 
dough (170° to 190°C.) the effect of a change of 10 to 20°C. in the tem- 
perature of the hot fat, upon fat absorption, would be so slight as to 
be unnoticed except as it acted to change the time of frying or the manip- 
ulation during frying. 

It is true that 200°C. is too high a temperature for practical work" and 
that 150°C. is too low. These temperatures were chosen however for 
this experimental work because of the fact that temperature influence 
is not very strong, so far as crust formation is concerned, on an edible 
dough. It rather affects color, texture, and volume. It was therefore 
thought best to exaggerate the temperature interval to some extent 
in order to be able to demonstrate that there is an effect of high tem- 
perature upon gluten in the formation of a fat-resistant dough at least 
in the absence of egg. 

3. Increasing the softness of the dough, increases the fat absorption. 
Compare absorption of over 8 per cent in No. 4 with 6.3 and 6.6 per cent 
in No. 2 and about 5 per cent in No. 1. Compare also 9 per cent in 
No. 29 with 4.3 per cent in No. 31. 

4. Use of a "strong" flour (larger amount or improved condition of 
gluten) results in a diminution of fat absorption as compared with 
closely identical mixtures in which flour made from a softer wheat is 
used. Compare No. 3 (5 per cent and 4.7 per cent of fat absorbed) 
with No. 2 (6.6 per cent and 6.3 per cent) ; also No. 7 (13 per cent) with 
No. 6 (14.5 per cent.) 

5. Influence of manipulation of the dough is marked in comparing 
numbers 11 and 12, where the difference in the two flours used is by no 
means sufficient to account for so large a difference. 

6. The influence of fat in the dough is to increase the fat absorption 
of the dough in which it is contained. Evidently the fat in the dough 
"draws other fat in after it." This is in spite of the fact that fat tends 
to decrease the volume of the cooked ball. Nos. 6 and 7 contain very 
little fat, yet they show absolption of 13 per cent and 14.5 per cent, 
as compared with 5 per cent in No. 1 ; No. 5 compares in the same way 
with No. 3. It is not clear why No. 5, which is a much softer dough 

* So far as the ordinar>' home product is concerned. 



124 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOUIC6 [March 

than \os. 6 and 7 and also contains more fat, should show a slightly 
lower fat absorption than they show, instead of a higher one. Douljtless 
the reason for this unexpected dilTercnce is concerned with some detail 
of manipulation. No. 5 was one of the earliest of these experiments, 
and may very likely have been kneaded until smooth and compact. 
Nos. 6 and 7 were very lightly kneaded, and as a result tended somewhat 
to separate into convoluted lobes as they expanded in the hot fat. This 
increase in surface did, of course, increase the fat absorption. 

7. The inlluence of egg in the dough is to increase the fat absorption 
during frying. Compare \os. 8, 9, and 10 with No. 1 (7, 8, and 9 per 
cent fat alisorbed instead of 5 per cent). Compare No. 35 (29 per cent 
absorbed) with \o. 29 (only 9 per cent fat absorbed). This may be 
because of the thinning effect of the egg liquid on the batter; it may be 
because adding egg increases the fat content of the dough; it may be 
also because egg increases the volume attained during frying. The 
effect of dipping the dough into egg as is done with croquettes, so that 

, an outer egg crust is formed on the doughnut, is to decrease the fat 
absorption; but this is a different propor.ition from that of putting egg 
into the dough. 

Miss McKee's conclusion' was that increase of egg in the batter 
decreased the fat absorption. It will be noted, however, that at the 
same time that she increased the egg she also added 200 grams of flour. 
We believe that the decreased fat absorption she obtained was due to 
the increased gluten content of the dough rather than to its increased 
egg content. Her conclusions in regard to the effect of fat and sugar 
in the dough are fully confirmed by our results. 

8. The influence of sugar in the dough is to increase the fat absorption. 
Compare No. 15 (9.3 per cent, 6.2 per cent) with No. 12 (6.2 per cent, 
1.5 per cent). No. 16 contains twice as much sugar as No. 15, and 
shows its effect still more (18 per cent and 9 per cent, instead of 9.3 
per cent and 6.2 per cent.) No. 14 is not strictly comparable with 
No. 1 because the latter was made with a weaker flour; yet the 150°C. 
sample shows the effect of the addition of sugar. 

9. The influence of using milk instead of water to mix the dough is on 
the whole to increase the fat absorption, especially at 150°C. Com- 
pare No. 15 with No. 14 — 9.3 per cent against 7.8 per cent, and 6.2 per 
cent against 4.6 per cent. Or compare No. 18 with No. 17 — 10 per 
cent against 7 per cent, 16 per cent against 8 per cent. No. 20 fails to 
show a similar comparison with No. 19, because of the fact that it stood 



1920] ABSORPTION OF FAT BY FRIED BATTERS AND DOUGHS 125 

for an hour before frying. No. 26 cannot fairly be compared with No. 

24 for the same reason. (See conclusion No. 12.) Compare No. 28 
(19 per cent fat absorbed) with No. 27 (16 per cent fat absorbed). 

10. A "rich dough" containing large quantities of egg and milk, and 
moderate quantities of sugar and fat, can be fried without undue absorp- 
tion of fat, if pains be taken to balance other ingredients with the proper 
proportion of flour; e.g., Nos. 17 to 20 inclusive, and 23 to 28 inclusive, 
do not show high absorption. An absorption below 20 per cent of the 
weight of the dough may be looked upon as very moderate in frying 
doughnuts. An absorption above 30 per cent is high, and produces a 
very rich doughnut. The rich doughnut is not necessarily greasy. 
"Greasiness" pertains to unabsorbed fat, and is not found in conjunc- 
tion with a crisp crust, unless the absorption has been highly excessive. 

11. The influence of substituting cornstarch for part of the flour is, 
as might be expected, to increase the fat absorption very greatly. Com- 
pare No. 27 (16 per cent absorbed) with No. 26 (9 per cent absorbed); 
No. 37 (55 per cent absorbed) with No. 35 (29 per cent absorbed). The 
increase is due partly to the fact that cornstarch contains no gluten, 
and gluten is the constituent of the dough most suitable for forming a 
fat- resisting crust; and partly to the fact that substitution of cornstarch 
for flour increases the proportion of raw starch grains in the dough, 
that is, increases the absorbing surface presented to the hot fat. 

The influence of substituting cooked mashed potato for part of the 
flour is quite opposite to the influence of raw cornstarch, as will be 
explained in a future article. The reason for the discrepanc}' of effect 
in these two cases is perhaps obvious. 

12. Allowing the dough to stand and "ripen" for an hour or more 
depresses the fat absorption, and often profoundly so. Compare No. 

25 (11 per cent fat absorption in four minutes frying) with No. 24 (19 
per cent in ten minutes); No. 32 (2.2 per cent) with No. 31 (4.3 per 
cent). No. 20 as compared with No. 19, and No. 26 as compared with 
No. 24 show similar effects, though, in one case, the substitution of milk 
for water would have led one to expect higher instead of lower absorption. 
The most striking examples of this phenomenon occur, however, in 
later work to be published soon. 

This lower fat absorption is perhaps due to the fact that in standing, 
the moisture tends to distribute itself uniformly throughout the dough, 
and the separate gluten particles begin to fuse or "cake" as soon as they 
become thoroughly wet; this greatly promotes crust formation upon 
contact with the hot fat. 



126 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS iMarch 

13. Cooking the flour or flour plus cornstarch greatly decreases fat 
absorption. No. 36, cooked, 11 per cent absorption, is to he compared 
with No. 35, 29 per cent. No. 38, 6.5 per cent absorbed, is to be com- 
pared with No. 37, 55 per cent absorbed. The effect of cooking starch 
to a paste is somewhat similar to the effect of ripening gluten. The 
formation of a homogeneous layer from a number of distinct granules 
evidently promotes the formation of a resistant crust. Doubtless 
cooking may also increase the resistance of the gluten to some extent. 
(It is true that pieces of bread when fried, take up a great deal of fat; 
but that fact is due to their porosity and the great amount of surface 
presented for absorption.) 

14. Increase of surface in proportion to mass will of course increase 
fat absorption greatly, unless at the same time, the length of time of 
frying can be materially reduced. See No. 34, 12 per cent absorption 
for rings as compared with 3 per cent absorption for the same weight of 
the same dough fried as balls. 

15. The effect of manipulation, both upon the dough and during 
frying, is very great. In general, any manipulation which tends to 
compress or pull or stretch the gluten also tends to decrease the fat 
absorption. This may easily be because it facilitates the union of 
gluten particles, which of course are separated in the dry flour and are 
still somewhat distinct in a lightly mixed dough, for a short time after 
mixing. 

Any roughening of the dough, such as may take place in loosening 
a sticky doughnut from the surface on which it rests, preparatory to 
frying it, will tend to increase the fat absorption. 

Cracking of doughnuts greatly increases absorption. Frequent turn- 
ing increases it, because it constantly exposes a fresh surface to the hot 
fat; except that under some circumstances, frequent turning may pre- 
vent cracking, and thus may conduce indirectly to low absorption. 

Most of the factors which lower fat absorption also tend to make 
doughnuts tough or hard and "bready." This is true of a considerable 
increase in flour and of the use of considerable quantities of mashed 
potato. The best means of applying, to actual practice, the principles 
discovered in this experimental work will be discussed in a future paper. 
The results upon which this second paper is based confirm those shown 
in these published tables. 

Temperature of liquid used for mixing dough may be of importance 
for fat absorption, especially if much sugar is used, or if coarse sugar is 



1920] H. R. 12078 127 

used. The cold liquid has less solvent action than does the warm even 
if the temperature diflference be merely the difference between the ice box 
and the kitchen. The effect of undissolved crystalline masses of sugar 
which stand out in the dough is apparently an unfavorable one; the 
melting down of these crystals during frying appears to promote fat 
absorption. 

Another practical question is whether to roll the dough half an inch 
thick and fry doughnuts which wUl "swell shut" in the center, so that 
they must cook five minutes; or to roll the dough one-quarter inch thick 
and cut a large center out, so that the doughnut fries in half that time. 



H. R. 12078 

Mr. Fess introduced the following bill in the House of Representatives, 
January 26, 1920. It was referred to the Committee on Education and 
ordered to be printed. 

A BILL TO AMEND AN ACT ENTITLED "AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE PRO- 
MOTION OF VOCATIONAL EDUCATION; TO PROVIDE FOR COOPERATION 
WITH THE STATES IN THE PROMOTION OF SUCH EDUCATION IN AGRI- 
CULTURE AND THE TRADES AND INDUSTRIES; TO PROVIDE FOR COOPERA- 
TION WITH THE STATES IN THE PREPARATION OF TEACHERS OF VOCA- 
TIONAL SUBJECTS; AND TO APPROPRIATE MONEY AND REGULATE ITS 
EXPENDITURE," APPROVED FEBRUARY 23, 1917. 

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States in congress assembled: 

That the Act entitled "An Act to provide for the promotion of vocational 
education; to provide for cooperation with the States in the promotion of 
such education in agriculture and the trades and industries; to provide for 
cociperation with the States in the preparation of teachers of vocational sub- 
jects; and to appropriate money and regulate its expenditure," approved 
February 23, 1917, be, and the same is hereby, amended by adding thereto 
the following section: 

Sec. 19. That for the purpose of cooperating with the States in paying 
the salaries of teachers, supervisors, or directors of home economics subjects, 
there is hereby authorized to be appropriated for the use of the States, subject 
to the provisions of this section, for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1921, the 



128 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS (March 

sum of $500,000 and annually thereafter for nine years an amount for each 
year equal to the amount appropriated for the year preceding increased by 
$250,000, and for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1931, and annually there- 
after, the sum of S3,(XX),0(X); such appro[)rialions to be in lieu of the appropria- 
tions for cooperation with the States in the payment of the salaries of teachers 
of home economics subjects provided by section 3, and to be allotted and 
paid to the States in the same manner and upon the same terms and condi- 
tions, except as herein otherwise prescribed, as the funds provided by said 
section 3; the acceptance by any State of the benefits of the \'ocational Edu- 
cation Act, approved February 23, 1917, being deemed an acceptance of the 
benefits of the appropriations for home encomomics authorized by this sec- 
tion and entitKng such Stale, upon com|)liancc with the terms and condi- 
tions prescribed hereby, to its allotment of the appropriations herein author- 
ized: Provided, hmicvir, That the appro|3riations provided by said section 3 
shall hereafter be available solely for the purpose of cooperating with the 
States in payment of salaries of teachers of trade and industrial subjects, 
except that, if for any reason it is impossible for any State to meet the condi- 
tions prescribed for the use of its allotment of the appropriations for home 
economics authorized by this section, such State may continue to use its allot- 
ment of the appropriations contained in section 3 for home economics educa- 
tion as heretofore, subject to the conditions thereby prescribed. That the 
appropriations thereby authorized shall be allotted to the States in the propor- 
tion which their population bears to the total population of the United States, 
not including outl3'ing possessions, according to the preceding United States 
census: Provided, That the allotment of funds to any State shall be not less 
than a minimum of S5,000 for any fiscal year prior to and including the fiscal 
year ending June 30, 1926, nor less than $10,000 for any fiscal year thereafter. 
And there is hereby authorized to be appropriated annually the sum of $50,000, 
or so much thereof as may be necessary, which shall be used for the purpose of 
providing the minimum allotment to the States provided for in this section. 
That of the moneys authorized to be appropriated as provided by this section 
5 per centum may be deducted and used for the purpose of making or cooper- 
ating in making studies and reports to aid the States in the organization and 
conduct of home economics education, such studies and reports to include 
homemaking pursuits, economies in the home in the provision of food, cloth- 
ing, and shelter and the organization of home economics material to assist 
in the Americanization program, and for administrative expenses incident 
to performing the duties imposed by this Act, including salaries of such em- 
ployees in the District of Columbia or elsewhere as the board may deem 
necessary; actual traveling and other necessary expenses incurred by the 
members of the board and its employees under its orders, including attend- 
ance at meetings of educational associations and other organizations; rent 



1920] H. R. 12078 129 

and equipment of quarters in the District of Columbia and elsewhere; purchase 
of books of reference, law books, and periodicals; typewriters, and exchange 
thereof; miscellaneous supplies, postage on foreign mail; and all other neces- 
sary expenses. 

__Sec. 20. That in order for any State to secure the benefits of the appropria- 
tions authorized by section 19 of this Act, the State Board for Vocational Edu- 
cational Education of the State, created or designated in accordance with the 
provisions of section 5, shall prepare plans showing the kinds of home eco- 
nomics education for which it is proposed that the appropriation shall be used. 
Such plans shall be submitted by the State board to the Federal Board for 
Vocational Education, and if the Federal board finds the same to be in con- 
formity with the provisions and purposes of this Act, the same shall be 
approved; that any State may use the sums allotted to it under the provisions 
of section 19, or any part thereof, for the salaries of teachers of home economics 
subjects in schools or classes or for the salaries of supervisors or directors of 
the same. The State board of any State shall also provide in its plans for 
home economics education that such education shall be conducted in schools 
or classes which are under public supervision or control; that the controlling 
purpose of such education shall be to fit for useful employment in the home 
or other occupation in the field of home economics; that such education shall 
be of less than college grade and shall be designed to meet the needs of persons 
over fourteen years of age who have entered upon or are preparing to enter 
upon the work of the home or other occupation in the field of home economics; 
that the State or local community, or both, shall provide the necessary plant 
or equipment to be determined upon by the State Board with the approval 
of the Federal Board for Vocational Education as the minimum requirement 
in such State for education in home economics subjects; that the total amount 
expended for the maintenance of such education in any school or classes 
receiving the benefit of allotments for home economics education shall be 
not less annually than the amount fixed by the State board with the approval 
of the Federal board as the minimum of such schools or classes in the State; 
that at least one-third of the sum allotted to any State for the salaries of 
teachers, supervisors, or directors of home economics subjects, shall, if ex- 
pended, be applied to part-time schools or evening classes for workers over 
fourteen years of age who have entered upon employment; and that the 
teachers, supervisors, and directors of home economics subjects in any State 
shall have at least the minimum qualifications for teachers, supervisors, and 
directors, to be determined upon for such State by the State board with the 
approval of the Federal Board for Vocational Education. The provisions 
of this section shall be in lieu of the provisions of section 11 in so far as the 
same relate to home economics. 



130 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS (March 

IS THE AVERAGE HOME SANITARY? 

Is the average home conducted along approved lines of sanitation? 
Arc individual towels provided? Are common drinking utensils used? 
Are dishes thoroughly and properly washed? Arc cups, forks and 
spoons scalded after each usage? Are soiled handkerchiefs properly 
cared for? 

When one member of a family contracts a common cold, other 
members generally contract colds in due season. AfTcctionate greet- 
ings, the kissings and the embracings, even hand-shaking, between 
infected and uninfected members have considerable to do with the 
transmission of colds as well as the promiscuous sneezings and care- 
less nose-blowings. Droplet and spray infections also play their part. 
These methods of transmission are im])ortant and probably constitute 
the chief factors in the spread of common colds. 

On the other hand, the use of the common towel and drinking cup, 
the careless washing of dishes, especially cups, forks, and spoons, as 
well as the careless disposal of soiled handkerchiefs, may, under some 
conditions, be of even greater importance in the spread of common 
colds. 

At any rate, no household can afford to neglect the practice of com- 
mon approved methods of sanitation. Their adoption will undoubt- 
edly have considerable to do with the prevention of the spread of 
communicable diseases other than common colds. Xo family should 
tolerate the common towel or the common drinking cup, and as for 
the efficient washing of dishes, that is the pride of every good house- 
wife. — Mo. Bui. California Bd. Ilcallh. Aug., 1919. 

The compiler of the above statements might well have added. Is 
everyone careful to wash the hands thoroughly after visiting the toilet, 
especially before returning to the kitchen or to other work that means 
the handling of food? Typhoid fever has been spread many times 
through the neglect of this simple precaution. Aside from this danger, 
it is not pleasant to think of such soiling of food. We do not want 
feces on our food, even in minute amounts, any more than we want 
food sprayed with the excretions of the nose and throat of the person 
who sneezes and coughs over it. 



1920] HOME ECONOMICS IN AN ARMENIAN VILLAGE 131 

HOME ECONOMICS IN A PRIMITIVE ARMENIAN VILLAGE 

HESTER DONALDSON JENKINS 

Miss Mianzare Kaprielian, a graduate of Constantinople College for 
Girls, has been doing an unique piece of work in domestic teaching. 

After she left college, she took one of the very pleasant teaching posi- 
tions in an American school in Asia Minor. But one day she became 
dissatisfied with her soft work, for she heard from a missionary a story 
that moved her deeply. It was of a tiny Armenian village, stranded in 
an out-of-the-way comer of Asia Minor, where the people lived in a 
terribly primitive state. They were her people, and she could not 
sleep in her pretty bed room until she had decided to go to them and 
serve them. 

So, accompanied by the missionary', she made her diflicult way to 
Chalgara, the stranded village. Of course there was no inn in the 
place, so she was put up, (or rather dowii, for her bed was a mattress 
on the floor) by one of the village families. She found herself in a room 
dirtier than she had ever seen before. Every instinct revolted. The 
next morning she arose and girded herself for toil, and this refined, 
educated lady scrubbed the unspeakable floor and thus gave her first 
lesson to the wondering women of Chalgara. 

It was only the Alpha of cleanliness to be followed as soon as possible 
by other letters. The church she found to be almost as dirty as the 
houses. E.xpressing her disgust, she gathered together a corps of 
women and set them to making the edifice decent. 

She was, naturally, more than a nine days' wonder to the Chalgarites, 
who gaped at her neat black dress, her smooth hair, and especially the 
dainty white collar and cuffs that she wore. They themselves had been 
sewed tightly into blouse and bloomers since the beginning of the 
season. Their many tight braids of hair had not been unbraided some- 
times for years. It was a marvel to them when she took down her 
smooth hair, combed and brushed it, and then recoiled it neatly on her 
head. She also showed them all her apparel and how it came off and on. 

Such object lessons were followed by classes in cutting, sewing, and 
donning of clothes. The women of Chalgara began to prink. 

At the first possible moment she built a house for herself. She 
planned it and supervised the work. The result was a building of un- 
paralleled splendor to the Chalgara mind. It had a wooden floor and 
doors and windows. No chimney, of course, but a pipe coming through 



132 TH£ JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

a window carried out the smoke. There were no partitions in it, but 
each corner was a separate room, from which radiated education to the 
people of Chalgara. In one corner was the oven, and here lessons in 
cooking and the clean prcjjaration of food were given; in another comer 
was the bed, a mo<icl of neatness and daintiness; in the third was a 
bench and stools, with the Hiblc and spelling book, where the children 
were taught letter;; and religion; and the fourth corner was the living 
room. 

The money for her living Miss Kaprielian begged from friends and 
from Constantinople College. The students of the latter felt that 
Chalgara was their college settlement and gladly took up annual col- 
lections for the work. I was in the College when this fragile-ai)pcar- 
ing lady came to tell us of her pioneer work. She made very light of the 
hardships. 

I asked her what she had to eat in Chalgara. 

She replied cheerfully, "Oh, we have plenty of eggs." 

"Meat?" I asked. 

"No, they don't often kill an animal." 

"Vegetables?" 

"Only two kinds, but plenty of eggs." 

"How about milk?" 

"Well, there is really no milk, but," and she smiled with luminous 
tolerance, "there are plenty of eggs." 

She did not, however, rest with such a menu. She began by showing 
the men other vegetables to plant. Then she bought a cow. 

Oh, that cow! What a wonder it was. And how the people gathered 
about to see her milk it; and what good cheese and butter she made. 
In a short time Chalgara had a small but flourishing dair>- industry. 

Miss Kaprielian became quite naturally the confidant of the women, 
and straightened out many a domestic difiiculty for them. One bride 
came to her with a personal problem to solve. Should she turn over 
her private fortune to her husband, or would it be right to keep it for an 
emergency. Inquiry discovered that the fortune amounted to S2.43! 
Miss Kaprielian assured her that she would be justilied in keeping it. 

What this Armenian lady is doing in Chalgara is an illustration of 
what many a student going out from Constantinople College could do. 
Few towns are so primitive as Chalgara; but students who could have 
a good training in home economics in Constantinople would ha\-e endless 
fields of usefulness opened to them. 



1920] HOMEJIAKING ADJTJSTBfENTS 133 

A COURSE FOR PRACTICE IN HOMEMAKING 

ADJUSTMENTS 

For a Limited Group of Women Trained in Home Economics 

Under the Direction of the Committee on Home Economics of the Charily 
Organization Society of the City of New York 

Aim. The aim of this course is to bring students, teachers, and other 
workers in home economics into closer contact with home living condi- 
tions and with the methods by which various social agencies are endeav- 
oring to raise home standards and prevent personal and family break- 
downs. 

\^- Admission requirements. Although the training is planned primarily 
for women with professional experience in home economics, it is also 
open to college juniors and seniors who are especially recommended by 
the head of their home economics department. The size of the group is 
limited to thirty-live. Applications for membership must be received 
by May 1, 1920. 

Time. The course begins Thursday, June 3, and ends Wednesday, 
June 30. Hours 9: 00-5: 00, Monday to Friday of each week. 

Type of work. One day a week will be used for round-table discus- 
sions and for special lectures and for visits to social agencies. Four 
days a week will be spent in field work carefully arranged to meet the 
needs of the individual pupil. This year special training can be pro- 
vided at the Morningside Nutrition and Homemaking Center which 
has just been established by the Home Economics Con)mittee. There 
is also opportunity for nutrition work with hospital cHnics and various 
health and social agencies and for social case work training with family 
social work agencies. 

Fees and college credit. A fee of $24.00 is to be charged for the train- 
ing. This fee is payable in advance to the Charity Organization Society 
or to colleges making special arrangements with the Society with ref- 
erence to pavTiient and credit recognition for the course when taken by 
their students. 

For further information and app'ication blanks write to Miss Emma 
A. Winslow, Secretary, Committee on Home Economics, Charity 
Organization Society, 105 East 22nd Street, New York City. 



EDITORIAL 

Yeast as A Food, A Medicine, and A Laboratory Reagent. A 

surprising amount and variety of work has recently been published on 
yeast. In vitamine experiments on rats and pigeons yeast has long been 
used as one of the most common sources of water-soluble B, and the 
"aulolyzed yeast" (the filtrate from yeast that has stood at 37.5'C. 
from 24 to 48 hours) has been shown by Williams and Seidell' to be more 
effective than fresh yeast. As a result of this experimental work yeast 
is now used' in cases of human bcri-beri and found to be only slightly 
less efficacious than rice polishings. Doses of from 2 to 4 cc. of autolyzed 
yeast filtrate every 3 hours have rapidly removed s\Tnptoms of infantile 
beri-beri. Larger doses have shown good results with adults. 

Yeast may be used as a cure for other diseases than beri-beri, espe- 
cially diseases of the skin and of the gastro-intestinal tract. Hawk* 
reports that 50 out of 52 cases of furunculosis (boils), acne vulgaris 
(common pimples) and acne rosacea, and constipation were improved 
or cured by the yeast treatments. The explanation of this action we 
hope will soon be forthcoming. The usual daily dose was two or three 
cakes taken in water, beef tea, or orange juice. In some cases living 
yeast was used, in others, dead yeast fthat had been killed by boiling 
water). Dead yeast was preferai)le where there was gas formation. 
One case of constipation yielded to li\ ing yeast l>ut not to dead yeast. 

Yeast may also serve as a food. During war conditions in Europe it 
was used extensively for cattle feed and was considered an excellent 
source of protein. It has the advantage of being independent of crops 
and seasons and of being an othenvise waste product. To determine its 
value as a food for man much experimental work on men and also on 
dogs and rats has been done in both Germany and the United States to 
ascertain what per cent of its large nitrogen content is available and to 
what extent it may be used to supplant other proteins. Osborne and 
Mendel,* feeding yeast to rats as the sole protein, have shown the nitro- 

> Williams and SeideU, Jour. Biol. Cliem., 29, 145, 1917. 
'Saleeby, Philippine Jour, of Science, 14, 11, 1919. 

' Hawk, Knowles, Rchfuss, and Clarke, Jour. Amcr. Med. Assoc, 69, 1243, 1917. 
* Osborne and Mendel, Jour. Biol. Cheni., 38, 223, 1919. 
134 



EDITORIAL 135 

gen to be well utilized (74 to 83 per cent) even when the experiments 
were carried on for a year. No toxic effect was observed as had been 
thought possible from earlier experiments. As the sole source of nitro- 
gen in experiments on man, Funk' found it not well utilized, but Hawk' 
recently has obtained excellent results when it supplied 10 to 30 per 
cent of the protein of the diet. He dried the yeast and ground it into a 
powder, which could be used to replace 50 per cent of protein in wheat 
biscuits, and 25 per cent of protein of meat in meat preparations. With 
this use of yeast in both low and high protein diets the yeast was well 
utilized and in some cases a positive nitrogen balance was obtained. 

Another recently' developed use of yeast is in experiments to test for 
the presence of vitamines in foods, since the yeast plant needs water- 
soluble B for its own optimum growth. 

Yeast, then, may be regarded as a source of water-soluble B, a valu- 
able reagent in studying vitamines, a therapeutic agent in diseases of 
the skin and of the gastro-intcstinal tract, and a source of protein for 
animals and man. 

Iodine, it has recently been shown, is probably among those inor- 
ganic elements necessary for the student of nutrition to consider, espe- 
cially in its relation to goiter and the thyroid gland. 

In April 1917, Marine and Kimball' began a series of observations on 
goiter in Akron, Ohio (in the midst of one of the "goiterous regions") 
by a survey of the amount of goiter among 3872 girls in the public 
schools from the fifth to the twelfth grades inclusive. They found that 
56.41 per cent had a hyperplastic condition of the thyroid gland which 
might be considered simple goiter. Iodine was used as a therapeutic 
measure by giving 2 grams sodium iodide in 0.2 gram doses for 10 consec- 
utive school days twice a year — autumn and spring. Seven and nine- 
teen months later two other surveys of the same schools were made. 
The most striking results obtained were that not a pupil in whom the 
thyroid was normal at the beginning and who took iodide showed any 
thyroid enlargement, while of those not taking iodide, 15.9 per cent 
showed definite enlargements. Also of the girls with slight goiter those 
taking iodide improved somewhat more than those without. 

» Funk, Lyle, and McCaskcy, Jotir. Biol. Client., 27, 173, 1916. 
•Hawk, Smith, and Holder, Amer. Jour. Physiol., 48, 199, 1919. 
' Williams, Jour. Biol. Client., 38, 465, 1919. 

» Marine and Kirnball: Jour. Lib. ami Clin. Med., 3, 40, 1917; Arch. Int. Med., 22, 41, 
1918; Jour. Amer. Med. Assoc, 73, 1873, 1919. 



136 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOiacs | March 

Although this is the first extensive work done with human beings, the 
fact that iodine could prevent goiter had been observed some time 
before in connection with the sheep growing industry in Michigan. 
Prior to the discovery of the salt deposits around the Great Lakes the 
sheep industry seemed hopeless, but with the use of the salt the sheep 
growers ceased to have trouble, due to the fact that the iodide content 
of the salt was supplying the neeils of the sheep. Kimliall and Marine 
were also able to control an outbreak of goiter in the salmon and trout 
hatciicries by adding potassium iodide to the water or feeding whole 
sea fish for part of the diet. 

As to the sources of iodine for human nutrition, Forbes and Beegle* 
found traces in some samples of almost all types of foods (animal, vege- 
table, grains, condiments, and water) but not in all samples of the same 
food Sea foods (agar-agar. Irish moss, and sea weeds) are exceptions. 
They universally contain iodine. In other words, the presence of iodine 
in foods other than sea foods is accidental due probably to the fact that 
iodine is not essential to plant growth. Consequently, our only depend- 
able source is the inorganic form. 

It is interesting to note that Kendall' working at the Mayo clinic has 
succeeded in isolating from 6550 pounds of fresh hog thyroid 33 grams of 
an iodine containing compound (thyro.xin) which is the active principle 
of the thyroid gland. He has determined its structural formula and 
also its specific action by feeding it to people suffering with myxedema 
and cretinism — diseases due to diminished thyroid activity. 

ERRATA 

In the February number of the Journal in speaking of the work of 
Daniels and Bylield, Dr. Byfield was inadvertently referred to as Miss 
Bj^eld. Dr. Albert H. Byfield is the physician at the head of the 
Department of Pediatrics in the Medical School of the State University 
of Iowa. The work of Miss Daniels is in his department. 

In the article on Recent Advances in our Knowledge of Food Selec- 
tion and Preparation in the January number, the last paragraph on 
page 17 should read "Osborne and Mendel have investigated the rela- 
tive efficiency of foods as anlineuritics," not antiscorbutics . 

» Forbes and Beegle: Jour. Med. Research, 34, 445, 1916. 
^ Kendall: Joiir. Biol. Chem., 39, US, 1919. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



Teaching Borne Economics. By Anna M. 
CooLEY, Cora M. Winchell, Wil- 

HELUINA H. SpOHR, AND JOSEPHIME A. 

Marshall. New York: The Macmillan 

Company, 1919, pp. 555. $1.80. 

The book is a graceful tribute of remem- 
brance to Helen Kinne and a recognition of 
"her great share in the establishment of 
ideals in the teaching of home economics." 
The authors took upon themselves a large 
task as indicated in the statement of their 
aim, namely, to "offer suggestions for the 
organization, administration, and teaching 
of home economics subjects." Work in any 
one of these divisions would be no small task. 

Tlic authors say, "It is taken for granted 
that the students who will use it will be 
familiar with the scope of the field," and 
that "the book is intended for use primarily 
in normal schools and colleges" though they 
"hope that the social workers, vocational 
advisors, and lay readers will find in this 
book suggestions of value." They specially 
stress the fact that they wish to "attack the 
subject in the light of the new vision of edu- 
cation as a factor in social evolution." 
"Adaptation has been made the burden of 
the message throughout the book." 

The attempt to cover in outline the whole 
field is treated under four different divisions: 
(1) Home economics as an organized study 
in the school program; (2) Organization of 
courses in home economics; (3) Planning of 
lessons; (4) Personnel, materials, andoppor- 
tunities; (5) Addenda. 

Part One brings together "the response of 
womanhood to modem social demands," 
"the response of educational agencies to the 
needs of women," " the development of home 
economics," and "the interrelation of home 
economics with other subjects in the curric- 
ulum." This part does give both the 
backward and the forward look which is 
necessary for the teacher to interpret her 
present needs and is suggestive at many 
points. 



Part Two gives actual courses of study of 
different types and kinds for a great variety 
of schools. Chapter eight, Home Economics 
in the Rural Schools, seems to the writer a 
very inadequate presentation of the sub- 
ject. It gives a wrong sense of values to 
attempt to discuss the rural situation, home 
economics extension, influence of the Smith- 
Lever Act, County Farm Bureau, and the 
Home Demonstration Agent in a few pages. 
In the judgment of the reviewer, it would 
have been better to have named these agen- 
cies and concentrated the attention on the 
t>'pes of schools. 

The quality of instruction, the planning of 
lessons, and the aim of instruction are clearly 
set forth in Part Three. 

Part Four has good suggestions on the 
interrelationship of school and community 
interests and valuable helps in the study of 
equipment. 

One of the good features of the book is the 
list of questions after each chapter and 
the suggested references for collateral read- 
ing. The authors have emphasized clear 
thinking and a study of the particular needs 
of the school and community. 

While the authors have succeeded in 
bringing together in one volume material 
which will be very helpful to the discrimi- 
nating teacher of home economics, the under- 
taking was so great as almist to prevent 
adequate treatment of the various parts. 
Isabel Bevier, 
University of Illinois. 

Garments for Girls By Celestine Leon- 
tine ScHMiT. Mew York: The Century 
Company, 1919, pp. 249. $1.25. 
The preface and foreword of this book 
state something of its plan, some features of 
which are to offer opportunity lor close cor- 
relation with other subjects — to make it 
possible for the teacher to give more class 
instruction by presenting problems, every 
detail of which has been carefully worked 
137 



138 



THE JOURNAL OF HOUE ECONOMICS 



[March 



out^ and to eliminate llie expense and waste- 
fulness of commtrcbl patterns. There is no 
statement however as to the grade of students 
for whom the work is intended, but from the 
character of the problems and tlic method it 
would seem that the book was suited to 
high school or college students, depending on 
their previous training. 

The problems arc all good, the sequence 
well planned, and the illustrations, both line 
drawings and half tones, are excellent. The 
drafts are the important feature of the book. 
While the value of drafting for certain groups 
of students is fully recognized some of the 
drafts illustrated in this book, with their 
plain lines, doited lines, arrows, lettering, 
numbering and other symlxjls, appear so 
complicated that only an experienced teacher 
could tally them up with their accompany- 
ing directions. Moreover it is a question 
whether many teachers would have suflicicnt 
time for their work to be willing to consume 
so much in drafting, especially if their stu- 
dents had not previously had a good course 
in mechanical drawing. 

The directions for making the garments 
arc clearly given, and the finishes suggested 
are excellent. The book would be of still 
greater value in home economics work if 
some general material was given separately 
instead of being so closely interwoven with 
the directions for making the problem. As 
the book has no index it is impossible to look 
up seams, finishes, and other points of con- 
struction to apply to other problems. 

Blanche E. Hyde, 
George Peabody College for Teachers. 

The Hotel St. Francis Cook Book. By Victor 

HiRTZLER. Chicago: The Hotel Monthly, 

1919, pp. 432, S5.00. 

This book contains ^ bill of fare for each 
day in the year suitable for a hotel. Each 
menu with accompan>'ing recipes occupies a 
page. There is a classified as well as a gen- 
eral index so that the recipes may be found 
without difficulty. The recipes are sugges- 
tive, especially for anyone who desires a great 
variety in menus. 

^lany of the menus set a good standard 
of simplicity that is none too common in 
first class hotels. 



Victor Hirtzler is the chef of the Hotel 
St. Francis. San Francisco. 

Scientific Problems of Alimentation During 
the War. (Probtimes Scienlifiquei W Ali- 
mentation en France pendant la Guerre). 
Minutes of the Nutrition Committee of 
the Society of Biology, with analytical 
bibliography of I-"renth work published 
191+-19I8; by R. I^gendre, Sccretiry, 
Paris, 1919. 

This committee was organized in May, 
1918 under the chairmanship of M. Charles 
Kichet and at the request of MM. Gley and 
Langlois, French delegates to the Inter- 
Allied Scientific Commission on .Mimenla- 
tion. This report of its meetings, toi^ether 
with the bibliography (including a digest of 
each article noted), furnishes an excellent 
picture of the aid rendered in I'lance during 
the war by the science of nutrition. While 
abstract rese;irch has been largely laid aside, 
much work haS been done by original inves- 
tigators on such practical problems as 
military and civil rationing, the use and 
nutritive value of various tjpes of wheat 
flour and substitutes for wheat in bread 
making, and tlie most efficient use of the 
meat, milk, and fat supply. Interesting 
attempts have been made to popularize 
knowledge of iLe general principles of 
nutrition and methos of adapting the diet to 
the changed food supply; in this the Society 
scientifiquc d'Hygi^nc alimentaire appears 
to have taken the lead, both by arranging 
popular lectures and by distributing popular 
literature. 

Helen W. Atwater. 

Material for Permatienl Painting. By 
Maximilian Toch. New York: D. Van 
Nostrand Company, 1919, pp. 208, figs. 7. 
This work, although published some years 
ago, is worth noting, since it gives much in- 
formation about the causes of deterioration 
in paintings, the proper methods of prevent- 
ing deterioration, as well as information re- 
garding pigments, dryers, varnishes, and 
other related facts. Spme of the informa- 
tion is of interest in connection with paints 
used for household purposes as well as in 
connection with oil paintings. 



1920] BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 139 

BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS' 

References of Timely Interest to Home Economics Teachers and 

Home Makers in Connection with Clothing Selection, 

Clothing Thrift, Textile Standardization, and 

Current Legislation^ 

Government Publications: 

An analysis of the high cost of living problem. Grosvenor B. Clarkson, Director of the 

U. S. Council of National Defense. Council of National Defense, Washington. 
Price Bulletins of the U. S. War Industries Board, Clothing Series — 5 cents each.' 

No. S — Prices of clothing 

No. 23 — Prices of cotton and cotton products. 

No. 24 — Prices of wool and wool products 

No. 25 — Prices of silk and silk products 

No. 26 — Prices of hides and skins and their products 

No. 27 — Prices of hatters' fur 

No. 28 — Prices of hair, bristles and feathers 

No. 29 — Prices of buttons 
Clothing for the family. liul. 23, Federal Board for Vocational Education — 15 cents.' 
Materials for the household. Bulletin 70, U. S. Bureau of Standards, 25 cents.' 
The removal of stains from clothing and other te.xtiles. Farmers' Bulletin, 861, U. S. 

Department of Agriculture — free. 
Selection and care of clothing. Farmers Bui. 1089. (Forthcoming) — free. 
Miscellaneous A r tides: 

Some suggestions from the textile section. Miriam Birdseye, Jour. Home Econ,. 

September, 1919. 
The partner at home. Same, October, 1919. 

A plan of spending for the home. Pearl MacDonald, Same, December, 1919. 
Putting over budget lessons. Janet Cation, Same, November, 1919. 
Teaching the clothing budget. Janet Cation, Same, December, 1918. 
Textile lessons for home makers. Grace G. Denny, Same, June, 1918. 
A course in textile shopping. Iva L. Brandt, Same, December, 1919. 
Household arts and the high school girl. Nancy Gladish, Same, November, 1919. 
The problem of the high cost of living. Summary of report submitted to Congress by 

the Council of National Defense. (See ab)ve.) Same, December, 1919. 
The new consumer. Marj' S. Woolman, Gen. Fed. Magazine, September, 1919. 
Dressing the school girl. Same,. September, 1919. 
How to choose clothes. Literarj' Digest, October 4, 1919. 
World Situation in textiles. T>Ty Goods Ixonomist. December 6, 1919. 
Diversity in materials and diversity in prices. (Shoes.) Same, December 6, 1919. 
Why a dye dyes. Literary Digest, October 11, 1919. 

' Supplied by the committee on the standardization of textile fabrics. 

» ,\n/f; No attempt has been made to list in this brief compilation the many helpful ex- 
tension pulilications of the various State colleges and universities Write your State College 
of Agriculture for the extension bulletins and mimeographed material on clothing subjects 
and budgeting now available. " Bibliography of Home Kconomics" (see last reference, page 
140) contains a compreliensive list of F.xtension Publications. 

' Government publicaticms lor which a charge is made should be ordered from the Super- 
intendent of Documents, Government Printing Office, Washington, D. C. 



140 TiiK JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [March 

rrintinK on riolh. Color Trade Journal, Scptemljcr, VlV). 

Economic basis of the dycstuff industry. Samr, May, l'>19. 

Amcricanizini; ihc dyrslurt industry. Textile Worlil Jour, March 22, April 12, 1919. 

Importance of tlie dye industry for the economic life of the American nation. Color 

Trade Journal, OcloLer, 1919. 
American dycstufis or national disaster. Textiles, September, 1919. 
Misbranding of merchandise (Darkey Bill). Textiles, July, 1919. 
Misbranding of merchandise (Harkcy Hill). .National Clothier, August, 1919. 
British Merchandise Marks Act. National Clothier, August, 1919. 
Trade Afiigazines: 

The Textile World Journal, 334 Fourth Ave., N. Y. City. 
The Dry C.oods Kconomist, 231 W. 39lh St., N. Y. City. 
Women's Wear (Daily), S E. 13lh St., N. Y. City. 
I'osselt's Textile Journal, Philadelphia. 
Textiles, 79 Milk St., Boston. 
Books: 

J. B. Lippincott, Philadelpliia: 

Clothing for Women, Baldt. 

Housewifery, Balderston (Bedding, liouscliold textiles). 

The Business of the Household, Tabcr. 

Millinery, Tobcy (about to be issued). 

Clothing— Choice, Care, Cost, Woolman (alx)ut to be issued). 
Macmillan, New York: 

Textiles, Woolman and McGowan. 

Textiles and Clothing, Waite and McGowan. 

Shelter and Clothing, Kinne and Coolcy. 

Clothing and Health, Kinne and Coolcy. 

How wc are Clothed, Chamberlain. 
Scribner, New York: 

Dressmaking, Falcs. 
Whitcomb & Barrows, Boston: 

Household Textiles, Gibbs. 
D. C. Heath & Company, New York: 

Textiles, Doolcy. 
D. Appleton & Company, New York: 

Sewing and Textiles, Turner. 

The Study of Fabrics, Turner. 
American School of Home Economics, Chicago: 

Textiles and Clothing, Watson. 
The Centurj' Company, New York: 

Garments for Girls, Schmit. 
Bibliographies: 

Annotated list of books relating to household arts. Teachers College, Columbia 

University — 25 cents. 
Valuable books and bulletins on home economics, .\gricullural Extension Depart- 
ment, Iowa State College, Ames — free. 
Home economics in high schools of Mississippi. State Department of Education, 

Jackson — free. 
Textiles and clothing. The Library, State College of Washington, Pullman — 25 cents. 
Teaching home economics. Cooley, Winchell, Spohr and Marshall, pp. 420-442. 
Bibliography of home economics. U. S. Bureau of Education, Bulletin No. 46. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



A Conference on Natural Gas met in 
Washington, Januar>' 14, at the call of 
Franklin K. Lane, Secretary of the Interior, 
to consider possible economies in gas utiliza- 
tion and the mutual interests of the public 
and the gas companies. 

In attendance were governors, public 
utility commissioners, state geologists, home 
economics experts, owners and oiEcials of 
natural-gas companies, and appliance manu- 
facturers. 

Responding to the invitation of Secretary' 
Lane the American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation was represented by its president, 
Edna White, and the Journal by Keturah 
Baldwin, the business editor. Several other 
members of the Association were there repre- 
senting also other interests. 

The common interests of the producer and 
consumer, including cost, necessary equip- 
ment, waste, and consideration of future use, 
were presented by Secretary' Lane, George 
Otis Smith, director of the United States 
Geological Sur\'ey, Commissioner John S. 
Rilling, of the Pennsylvania Public Service 
Commission, and Director Van H. Manning 
of the Bureau of Mines. 

Samuel S. Wyer of Ohio State University, 
in a discussion of importance to the home 
economics representatives, stated that 80 per 
cent of the natural gas used in the household 
is wasted; that, in the household range, by 
properly adjusting the gas pressure and the 
distance of the cooking vessel from the flame, 
43 per cent of the heat energy could be 
utilized, and 73 per cent in a properly con- 
structed natural gas furnace. He maintained 
that the most important factor in reducing 
this waste would be increase in cost; that so 
long as gas may be purchased at present 
rates no attention would be given to effi- 
ciency; that increasing the rate would not 
increase the ultimate cost to the consumer 



nor income to the producer because of the 
greater economy practiced and the greater 
efficiency secured from the amount used. 

A more e.ttended discussion of the prob- 
lems considered in this conference will appear 
in an early number of the Journal. 

The Home Economics Association of 
Philadelphia held its regular January meet- 
ing at the Widener Librar>', Thursday, the 
15th, with the Dietitian's Section in charge. 

The following talks were given on the 
various opportunities open to dietitians: 

An E.xperiment in Settlement Teaching, 
Alice McCollister, Chairman Dietitans' 
Section, State Hospital, Xorristown, Pa.; 
Acting as Health .\dvisor for the School 
Child, Ova C. Pendleton, Health Advisor, 
White W'illiams Foundation; Factors in 
Teaching the High School Pupil Home Eco- 
nomics, -Ada Z. Fish, Director of Art and 
Home Economics, William Penn High School; 
How the Dietitian of School Luncheons May 
Increase the Pupil's Efficiency, Emma Smed- 
ley. Director of School Luncheons; A Nutri- 
tion Clinic for Children, Mrs. Gwendolyn S. 
Hubbard, Social Service Dietitian, Children's 
Hospital; Diet in Health, Sylvia Bayard, 
Consulting Dietitian. Child Federation; A 
Visiting Dietitian in a Municipal Court, 
Mary Loftus, Visiting Dietitian, Municipal 
Court; The Need of the Visiting Dietitian, 
Miss Frost, Instructor, Visiting Nurse Society. 

The Dietitian's Section first met in No- 
vember at the Pennsylvania Hospital. Mr. 
Miller of tlie Suaco Company gave a talk on 
detergents and soap savers. 

Miss GladwjTi, Jefferson Hospital, was 
appointed to report, at the regular monthly 
meetings, current topics in the dietetic 
world. '«1 

The Section appointed an investigating 
and reporting committee. on socLil service 
14 



142 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[March 



dietitians in this city. As the first report 
of this committee a Round Table Discussion 
on Social Service Work was held January 29. 

An Institutional Bureau. A hospital 
anil institulidnal llurcau of Consultation has 
been organized at 284 Kourlh Avenue, New 
York City, by Mr. Henry C. Wright, for- 
merly of the Department of Charities, New 
York City. This bureau will be ready to 
give information on plans and equipment of 
institutions to be built, and also on the organ- 
ization and operation of institutions already 
established. 

"The purpose of the bureau is to make 
available the advice of the most competent 
and experienced persons on every phase of 
hospital and institutional plan, equipment, 
organization, and operation." 

Notes from Kentucky. The Farm and 
Home Convention was held at the Univer- 
sity of Kentucky, LexinRton, January 27 to 
30. The principal speakers on the women's 
program were Mrs Henrietta Calvin, ^frs. 
Alice P. Norton and Mrs, Ruth Reed. The 
High Cost of Living was the keynote. 

The County Home Demonstration Agents 
attended a seminar during Januarj'. Instruc- 
tion was given in Dietetics, Cookerj', Cloth- 
ing, Dairy, Poultrj', Physical Education, and 
Extension Methods. In addition to the 
regular class work there were twelve lectures 
on special subjects including Literature, 
Page.antr>' and Rural Recreation, Music, 
Salesmanship, and Home Decoration. 

Notes. At the Colorado State Agricul- 
tural College, the Experiment Station has 
assigned to the Department of Home Eco- 
nomics a budget that provides for full time 
salary of an investigator, and for e.xpenses 
incident to the conduct of research work. 
Dr. N. E. Goldthwaite, with the rank of 
AssocL-ite Professor, is in charge of the Exper- 
iment Station work in Home Economics. 



The next annual meeting of the American 
Dietetic Association will be held in New 
York City, October 22 to 26, 1920. 

We are indebted to the Teachers College 
Bulletin, "Current Notes in Institution Ad- 
ministnition," (Scries II, No. 7} for several 
news items ihb month. Those interested in 
institutional work should send to Teachers 
College for a copy. 

The Nadonal Board of the Y. .M. C. A., 
600 Lexington Ave., New York City, is 
issuing an Economic Notebook, loose-leaf 
plan, that deals with housing, budgeting, and 
cafeteria work. This should be of service 
to those interested in problems of larger 
group living- 
Fellowships in Social-Economic Re- 
search. Three fellowships in social-eco- 
nomic research, carrying a stipend of $500 
each, are offered each year by the Women's 
Educational and Industrial Union to women 
who wish thorough preparation for such 
work. Clerical assistance, equipment^ and 
traveling expenses necessary for the investi- 
g.1tion are furnished. 

Application must be filed before May 1. 
For further information, address Depart- 
ment of Research, Women's Educational 
and Industrial Union, 264 Boylston Street, 
Boston 17, Massachusetts. 

Annual Meeting of the American 
Home Economics Association. Since the 
February- Journal w.as printed, the dates 
for the annual meeting at Colorado Springs 
have been changed to June 24-29. 

Further notice of the meeting will appear 
in the Journal as soon as the necessary 
arrangements have been completed. 

Will every one who expects to attend 
the meeting send a postal card to the 
secretary, Miss Cora Winchell, Teach- 
ers College, New York City, as soon as 
possible, so that the committee may 
have some idea of the number of rooms 
to be reserved. 



1920] OMICRON NU 143 

OMICRON NU 

DELTA CHAPTER 

Organization of alumnae chapter. The members of the Delta Chapter, in 
order to secure a relationship between the active and alumnae members, have 
organized an alumnae chapter. Early in the fall the active members 
wrote interesting letters to the alumnae members who were teaching in the 
State inviting them to attend a tea, during the State Teachers Associa- 
tion. Four girls from the Chapter went to Indianapolis to meet the guests. 
Our honorary member, Mrs. Henrietta W. Calvin of Washington, D. C, and 
twenty alumnae were present, who expressed their desire to form such an 
organization. Miss Lucy Wallace Wade, the Supervisor of Domestic Art in 
the Indianapolis Public Schools, was elected president, and Miss Francis 
McMahon of LaFayette was elected secretary. It was voted to make the 
meeting an annual affair, to be held on the Thursday of each State Teachers' 
Association. 

Organization of home economics society. One of the Omicron Nu girls who 
attended the conclave at Albany, N. Y., came back with a desire to organize 
a society for every girl taking the home economics work, and through her 
efforts the plans were outlined. A committee was appointed to draw up the 
Constitution and by-laws which were submitted to the girls for approval and 
accepted. 

The object of the society is to promote a better understanding of the scope 
of home economics, and to foster fellowship among the students. Approxi- 
mately one hundred and twenty-five girls became members at the first meeting. 

Only Sophomores and Freshmen may hold office; two Juniors, two Seniors, 
and one faculty member are on the Advisory Board. 

The meeting on December 3, was in observance of Ellen H. Richards' day. 
The speaker was Elizabeth Miller of the University of Chicago, who holds 
the Ellen H. Richards' Scholarship. 

BETA CHAPTER — NEW YORK STATE COLLEGE FOR TEACHERS 

Our program for the year has been divided into three phases — educational, 
social, and financial, each of which is directed by two students and a faculty 
advisor. 

For the educational work during the year the committee has planned a 
series of studies and discussions on the "Servant Problem," brietl\' outlined 
here: The home or family unit, its social and economic relation to the com- 
munity; growth of family and service. Development of public service. Service 
— what it means and involves, principles underlying service. Can household 
service be put on a business basis? If so, what standards should be estab- 



144 TILE JOURNAL OF HOUE ECONOMICS (March 

lishtd? Physiological and ethical side of service. Specialization in domestic 
service woric, a place for it in vocational hi^h schools. A suggested course of 
study for this vocation. 

The social committee is malting plans for a tea to be given for the home 
economics Freshmen. This is an annual event and one of the few o()j)or- 
tunities for Seniors and Freshmen to become acquainte<l. During the New 
York State Teachers' Convention, which was held in /Mbany on Thanksgiving 
week, Beta Chapter gave a tea for the Home Economics .\lumnae who were in 
town for the convention. 

Beta has been most enthusiastic in making plans for raising money. We 
have made a forecast of the probable expenses for the year, and each member 
has assumed responsibility for her pro[)ortion of the expenses. Some of the 
girls have taken Christmas orders for plum puddings, fruit cakes, and orange 
marmalade; some are catering for dinners, luncheons, and teas; others are 
taking Larkin orders; marmalade and pickles have been made and sold. One 
afternoon a week we open a rest room to faculty and students, and serve tea, 
cocoa, or coffee, with wafers or crullers. 

Una Vermillion, 

National Editor. 



Vol. Xn, No. 4 April, 1920 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemaking, Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

Mu. Auci P. NoiTOH, Eiiltr Ketorah E. Baldww, ButtMit Ediltr 

BdUcriat Beard 
Mit. M«T H. Abel C. F. Lamowoitby Amy Dahiu Roth Whxxlei Ethilwyn Miu.ee 

Em-CfficU Utmb«rs — Edna N. Whiti. Preiident American Home Economici AuocUtion 
Elsie Leonau), Chairman Institution Economics Section 
KATHAtTOE Bldnt, Chainnan Science Section 
Mamie Kuncu, Chairman Extension Education Section 
Mabel Trilling, Chairman Textile Section 

OtUbiralnt—Tbe OfEcerj, Members of the Council, and Advisors 



CONTENTS 

Tea Room Management from the Manager's Point op View Af^na Gleason 145 

A Study of Wool Fabrics Louise Phillips Glanton 150 

How AN Eighth Grade Class Made Their Own Course of Stody . . Rosamond C. Cook 153 
Farm Life Studies and Their Relation to Home Economics Work . . . C. J. Galpin 159 

The Physician and the Dietitian Hugh P. Gredy, M.D. 162 

Possibilities in Home Economics Work Melissa Farrell Snyder 166 

Alimentary Hygiene and Rational .\limentation in the Year 3000 . . Alice P. Mendel 169 

A Plan for Reducing Expenses in a School Lunch Room Blanche IngersoU 172 

"a Little Nonsense Now and Then" 174 

For the Homemaker 

Is There a Standard Budget? Alice P. Norton 175 

Estlmating Food Costs ---. 178 

Some Home Canning Costs for iyi'> Marion Woodbury 180 

Food Rui.es for School Children .' 182 

Editorial 183 

The Open Forum , 187 

Bibuography of Home Economics 190 

News from the Fleld 191 



Tbe Jocinal o» Houe EcoNOincs ii published monthly by the American Home Economics Association. 

12.90 A YEAR. FOREIGN J2.35. CANADIAN $2.Jt. SINGLE COPIES 25 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Check. Express Order or Postal Money Order, payable to tht 
American Home Economics Association. Currency, unless mailed in a registered letter, is at tbe sender's risk. 

NOTICE. When payment is made by check no receipt will be sent unless requested. 

CHANGE IN ADDRESS. Notice ol change in address should be sent Two Weeks before the date of issue oa wUck 
the change is to tskeeflect. The subscriber's Old Address should be clearly indicated in addition to the New Addreu. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 1211 Cathedral St., BALTniowt, Md. 

Tbe JooaNAi of Home Economics is on sale at John Wanamaker's, Philadelphia; The Old Comer Book Store, Boatoa: 

A . C . McClurg's, Chicaf o; Baltimore News Company, Baltimore; Woodward and Lothrop, Wastunfto* ..=^« 



;■ / J : .u i>i ipstr ixosnui^^-AUVh.Hi '. 



r^REAM OF TARTAR, which is 
derived from grapes, makes the 
highest quahty baking powder. 

That is the reason it is used ni 

ROYAL 

Baking Powder 

Absolutely Pure 



FIFTY YEARS PRE-EMINENT FOR MAKING 
THE FINEST AND MOST WHOLESOME FOOD 



Royal Contains No Alum 

Leaves No Bitter Taste 



In writing advertisers, please mention Journal of Home F.conomics 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. XII APRIL, 1920 No. 4 

TEA ROOM MANAGEMENT FROM THE MANAGER'S POINT 
OF VIEW! 

AGNES GLEASON 
The Parkway Tea Room, Chicago 

The problems of those who choose catering to the public for their work 
in life lie very close to me. Years of business e.xperience have taught 
me what these problems are, and how to solve some of them in a prac- 
tical way. If I can be of help to you in putting the gist of what I have 
learned before you, I am indeed happj' to do so. 

It is a great pleasure to me to find college women seriously consider- 
ing going into tea-room work. This is putting the work professionally 
where it belongs. This is recognizing the business of furnishing the 
public with food for what it is — a science. I am keenly conscious of the 
large contribution such women as you are capable of making to the 
profession of food-servdng, and the demands of the public upon you 
will be proportionate. 

In your laboratories you have learned the chemistr}' of food and its 
nutritive value. You have been taught scientifically how to combine 
foods and what are the right amounts necessary to keep the body well 
nourished. You have studied bacteriology. You know how to safe- 
guard the public from the dangers in food that were never even sus- 
pected a generation ago. 

You are women with trained, disciplined minds. We need such as 
you to think out our problems. For in the tea-room business, as in 

' Presented at the meeting of the Institution Economics Section of the American Home 
Economics .'\ssocialion, Madison, Wis., June, 1919. 

145 



146 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOSOCS (April 

Other business, there is no haphazard solution of difficulties, and college 
women are equipped to find the right solution without that waste of 
energy and time that hampers women with little or no scientific knowl- 
edge and no formal mental training. 

You have been furnished with the theory and, beyond question, with 
some of the practice, but I take it that, in the nature of things you know- 
little of the "making it pay" side; that is, of the "cashing in" of your 
scientific knowledge. 

However much and however good the training you have had n your 
college laboratories, the business field still remains an unknown world 
to you, and I would beg of you to still take with you, on entering it, 
the attitude of the learner. 

This, first of all, is what the manager wants in a helper — -a willingness 
to be told the problems of that particular business — for the problems of 
every tea room \'ary — a readiness to execute orders. Go into the field 
in a receptive frame of mind, and preserve that frame of mind until you 
are quite certain that that particular tea room has nothing more to 
teach you. By that time you will either be the manager's right hand — 
she cannot have too many — or you will be disassociated altogether from 
the enterprise. 

Secondly, I would impress upon you that managing a modern tea 
room means exactly what managing a large home means. The most 
successful tea room is the one that preserves the atmosphere of a pleas- 
ant, well-ordered home. The more successful a manager in getting the 
home touch in the tea room, the better her management. 

The competent manager of a tea room knows, first and foremost, 
how to merchandise food intelligently — how to get the right number of 
portions out of a given amount of raw material, and how to put the 
right price upon it when cooked and ready to ser\'e. Knowledge of 
right purchasing, apportioning, and pricing of food is not all there is to 
tea room management, by any means, but I feel justified in saying that 
it is the rock upon which success is founded. Equipped with such knowl- 
edge you may operate a more or less successful business. Lacking an 
understanding of clever merchandising of food, no amount of ability 
to give your tea room an artistic and homelike atmosphere will compen- 
sate. These other quaHties are highly useful as ciphers in the success 
total, but the integer is knowledge of merchandising the food. To stay 
in business you must create an income. To do this you must sell what 
you buy at a price that will cover the cost of its preparation, the over- 



1920] TEA ROOM MANAGEMENT 147 

head, and something more for your profit. The amount of profit you 
should have is for you to decide. The selecting of raw supplies wisely 
and the merchandising of them are things to be learned only by doing 
them. 

In this connection I should Uke to say a word about economy. Some 
of the simplest dishes are utterly spoiled by too close economy. If an 
extra pound of butter, even at seventy or eighty cents a pound, will 
put your product in demand, it is certainly folly to skimp on the butter 
or to use a substitute. Make a note that the best food will always mer- 
chandise the best. Buy No. 1 quaHty. The best is always the most 
economical. 

I would advise any girl going into tea room work to first determine 
that that is the one work she wants to do and to begin by taking a posi- 
tion in a popular and successful tea room. This will contribute to get- 
ting a right balance established in her mind between theory and prac- 
tise. Just what the position should be does not matter half so much as 
some girls think. From any part of the tea room you can get a fair 
start, and gradually acquire a knowledge of what is going on throughout 
the whole establishment. If you do not go in with too exalted an opin- 
ion of your attainments, but rather with the spirit of a pupil, you will 
be surprised to see how much you can learn about methods in a short 
while. 

Be open-minded, tolerant, and patient. You will come in contact 
with people of all sorts. They will not know what you are there for, 
but you will, and that should help make you more patient. You can 
learn a great deal from other employees who may not have had any of 
the academic advantages you have had, while you, no doubt, are teach- 
ing them much through the quiet force of personality. Let it be such, 
and not definite instruction. You are there to find out how things are 
done by other people, and what is the secret of that particular tea room's 
success and popularity. I make a point of this simplicity of attitude on 
the part of the newcomer, whoever she may be and however much her 
technical training, because my experience with domestic science gradu- 
ates has been that their weakness seems to he in an inability or unwill- 
ingness to adopt the apprentice's point of view even temporarily. I 
have taken domestic science graduates into the tea room, at their re- 
quest, because they wished to learn how things were done there, but 
when I have detailed them to do certain work, along with the regular 
helpers, they have felt themselves slighted. The work, they have told 



148 THE JOirRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

mc, was not worthy of their abilities. If you arc not willing to carry 
out instructions, in order that you may know how things arc clone, 
or demonstrate how they arc done, before asking others to do them, 
your success will be deferred until that adjustment takes place within 
yourself. 

Selecting help is an important part of the work. After finding your 
people you must train them to your methods and set the pace for them. 
They are quick to appreciate justice, even if the decision goes against 
them. As manager, you must adjust yourself to your employees, and 
give them the work that will bring out their best abilities, raise wages 
when business warrants it, and in ever}' way try to make them feel that 
your success is their success. In other words, there must be cooperation. 

It is the patron who makes the business. This should be constantly 
impressed upon your helpers. Give them the slogan: "The guest is 
always right," that is, he must be treated with the utmost courtesy. 
Patrons will not seek a tea room unless value is obtained there. \\'hile 
the appearance of the place has a great deal to do with attracting people, 
they w^ll not pay for "personality" and "atmosphere" alone. They 
come primarily for food, good food, well cooked, clean, and well served. 

A word here about the number of employees required to man a tea 
room might not be amiss. For an establishment serving two meals to 
between 500 and 600 persons a day, a first and a second meat cook will 
be required ; a vegetable cook ; a pastry cook ; two pantry girls who will 
have charge of salads, sandwiches, ice cream, and beverages; two dish- 
washers; one glass and silver cleaner; one pan washer; one scrubwoman, 
who will prepare vegetables and clean iceboxes; two laundresses; one 
porter; nine waitresses; and one cashier. 

From your place of emplojTnent in the tea room, whether it be helper 
in the kitchen or manager's assistant, you will note very soon that the 
matter of the size of portions and their prices plays a highly important 
part in the day's work, and that in a given tea room, a certain ration is 
consistently maintained throughout the menu in this respect. Later, 
you will learn the ratio of prices charged for the prepared food to the 
market cost. There is a rule for all of these things. For example, it 
will not take you long to discover how many slices must come out of a 
loaf of sandwich bread of certain dimensions, and how much sHced or 
minced ham or sliced chicken a given number of pounds of meat must 
afford; how many slices of roast beef a full seven rib roast must yield, and 
how the price must be ILxed; w-hat the soup is to cost per person, the salad 



1920] TEA ROOM MANAGEMENT 149 

per person; into how many portions a turkey should cut; how many 
orders one should get out of a case of asparagus, a bushel of potatoes, 
and so all the way down the menu. 

Such points as these can best be learned by adding to your school 
training a course of experience in a successful tea room. 

Being a manager, I said, comes to pretty much the same thing as run- 
ning a home on a large scale. This holds good whether you are in a 
small tea room or the largest hotel in the world. It is what the pubHc 
is looking for. There is nothing the public appreciates so much as 
hominess and there is nothing so subtle. Herein lies one great attrac- 
tion of the work. There are no end of delightful touches that a woman 
may give to her establishment that reflect herself. I want to stress 
this point particularly. Your output will be a reflection of what you 
are, of your capacity for work, your ideals, and your imagination and 
temperament. This is inescapable. Catering is service. If you have 
the true spirit of service, you have a splendid start for success in business. 
If the spirit of service is not found in the head of the establishment, it 
is usually not found in the employees, and the atmosphere reflects the 
true situation. 

Managing means much testing and tasting, time, thought, hard work — 
and no wasting. You must be at your business early, and you must 
stay at it late. You must never let your helpers forget that you have a 
right to know everything that is going on, both in the kitchen and at 
the desk. You must be uncompromising in your daily inspections, and 
you must make your aides understand that you exact from them the best 
ser\ice of which they are capable. Laxness — the bone of too easy 
success— will not creep in if you maintain this vigilance. Supervise 
diligently as to cleanliness, order, and the general deportment of employ- 
ees. Be direct in your orders but be sure that they have been well 
thought out. 

Catering is a delightful occupation, once the public has learned to 
trust you. You can gain their confidence by giving food cooked in a 
cleanly, appetizing manner, served in a homelike way, and priced con- 
sistently. By consistently, I mean with due regard to the cost of its 
preparation, asking neither more nor less than is fair to your business. 
Volume of business is the goal to be sought, though too much must not 
be sacrificed for it. There is no work in which a woman can realize 
more in money returns for her scientific attainments than in this kind 
of work. Nor is there anv work for a woman more fascinating. 



ISO THK JOURNAL OF HOMF, ECONOMICS (April 

I should advise every woman who takes up a profession, whether it 
is a tea room or something else, to have a hobby. \Vc are prone to stick 
too closely to one line of work, and this is not good. Ride horseback, 
play golf, do something to amuse yourself in your leisure hours, and 
have leisure hours which must be respected. By getting away com- 
pletely from thoughts of your work at intervals, you only strengthen 
your grip on the work. Have a hobby — something that will take you 
away mind and body from too close confinement to your main line of 
occupation. It will make you richer and more capable, rather than de- 
tract from your business worth. 

Closing this article is hard — for it is, as you see, an all engrossing 
subject to me. But let me leave this parting word with you. The 
price of success in this work is costly, but perseverance will crown it 
adequately. 



A STUDY OF WOOL FABRICS' 

LOUISE PHILLIPS GLANTON 

As a partial fulfilment of the requirements for the M..'\. degree at Colum- 
bia University, I made, during the spring of 1917, some investigations of the 
various qualities of wool fabrics in general use for garments for women and 
children. Since that time the interest in these fabrics has not decreased; 
indeed it has steadily increased as the supply of wool has lessened and the 
price of wool, along with the prices of every thing else, has greatly advanced. 
The editor of the Journal has asked me to summarize the conclusions drawn 
from the results of the tests. 

The investigations were made under conditions which insured the same 
kind of scientific accuracy that is required in the departments of chem- 
istry or engineering, and the conclusions were approved by the heads of the 
departments. 

For these tests, twelve samples each of five kinds of wool fabrics in 
common use were included, namely: white or baby flannel, ranging in 

' It was not possible in the Journal's limited space to publish the tables that were in- 
cluded in the original report, but arrangements may be made for the loan of the paper, through 
the JotTRNAL Office. 



1920] A STTJDY OF WOOL FABRICS 151 

price from $0.45 to $1.10 per square yard; broadcloth, $0.77 to $2.33 
per square yard; suiting for suits for men, women, and children with 
price range of $0.66 to $2.35 per square yard; serge for dresses at $0.80 
to $1.19 per square yard; and, lastly, miscellaneous fabrics used for 
various kinds of garments at $0.64 to $1.42 per square yard. 

None of the samples were of fancy, or "stylish" materials, but were of 
the general class which might have been found in shops all over the 
country at any time during the previous five to ten years. There were 
ranges in quahties as varied as the ranges in price. 

The samples were tested for shrinkage, tensile strength, percentage 
composition or amount of wool and cotton present, the number of yarns 
to the square inch, and the weight per square yard. From these tests, 
there may be drawn some practical conclusions which are valuable for 
the purchaser of such fabrics. 

The best wool fabrics show a good deal of elasticity and resiliency. 
The yarns should pull apart, never break off even, as do those of cotton. 
These two qualities will prevent easy tearing, and gi\e conformity to 
the curves of the body, the latter conserving the heat. Many all-wool 
fabrics may lack these properties because of the quality of the fiber 
used, or because of faulty manufacturing processes. If a fabric seems 
stiff, examine carefully the individual fibres for stiffness and for harsh- 
ness, due usually to the use of strong chemicals. Again, those samples 
which stand the greatest direct strain, but lack resiliency, soon lose 
their shape. In a garment from such fabrics, the results vary all the 
way from sagging side and back seams with a front elevation to exceed- 
ing bagginess over the knees. No matter how well cut a coat or skirt 
may be originally, the comfort is all gone when the garment loses its 
"hang," or gets baggy in any part. Very often the presence of cotton in 
large proportions will cause this difficulty in garments with long seams. 
With smaller garments, for school girls for instance, this objection does 
not hold to any great extent. Such dresses clean easily and look well 
enough for the purpose. Very few girls can wear a dress more than one 
season, because of their constantly increasing growth. The less expen- 
sive fabrics are therefore most excellent for such purposes. Such fab- 
rics may be purchased in good designs and coloring. 

A small amount of cotton, up to 10 per cent, is no great disadvantage 
in white goods, if the price is right. Indeed it is advocated by many 
experienced, intelligent purchasers. However, in colored goods, especi- 
ally those of dark color, the cotton may not hold the dye, as all dark 
colors tend to be fugitive on cotton. 



152 TIIF, JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

The shrinkage presented one of the most interesting problems. From 
a study of the samples there seem to be three principal factors which 
make for shrinkage. If the fibers are quite curly, the fabric shrinks 
even under the most favorable circumstances. If the fibers are not 
fairly well combed, even though relatively straight, there is consider- 
able shrinkage. If the fabrics are woven quite closely, that is, if the 
yarns are quite near each other, there is much matting of the serra- 
tions. This is increased if the yarns luck twist, or have not been well 
spun. 

In garments for infants' use, shrinkage is a great disadvantage be- 
cause of the board-like character the fabric assumes after a few wash- 
ings. The skin of babies is tender, the least harshness causing undesir- 
able irritation and consequent ill effects. There is another disadvan- 
tage not to be overlooked. With much shrinkage, a garment quickly 
becomes too small — an economic dead loss. 

The shrinkage in the other faeries was not very noticeable nor signifi- 
cant, except the very cheap broadcloth, which lost 25 per cent in size and 
faded miserably. * 

The prices were almost always directly proportional to the value. 
Those fabrics which had good color, good finish, and kept their shape, 
were in every case in the middle or upper class of prices. Some of the 
fabrics which were purchased in stores where the appeal is to a sense of 
real worth, not style or finish, were medium or low in price, and showed 
high counts on every point. It would seem to indicate how advisable 
it is for a woman who must really economize to go to one of the less 
exclusive shops to do her buying, although she should compare prices 
and values with those in the style-setting shops. 



1920] AN EIGHTH GRADE CLASS COURSE OF STUDY 153 

HOW AN EIGHTH GRADE CLASS M.\DE THEIR OWN COURSE 
OF STUDY 

ROSAMOND 0. COOK 

Assistant Professor of Home Economics, Iowa 'State College 

The scene is laid in a sewing laboratory. Eighteen eighth grade girls 
were filing in for the first sewing lesson of the year. As the class came to 
order the teacher said, "I am glad to see so many of my last year seventh 
grade girls here, and to welcome the three new girls. From your faces 
I judge there is something you want to talk about right away. What is 
it?" 

"What are we going to make first?" was the chorus of replies. 

"Well," replied the teacher, "that is interesting for it is exactly what 
I want to talk about too. What do you want to make?" 

A number of garments were mentioned and the teacher wrote the list 
on the board. It included dress, petticoat, bloomers, nightgown, 
drawers, and " teddy." As some of the garments were named comments 
by other members of the class were heard, such as, — "You can't make a 
dress, you don't know enough," and, "My mother won't let me wear a 
'teddy.' " 

As the teacher completed writing the list she said, "Now girls, there 
seems to be a difference of opinion about what we are to make, but 
as I think it over it seems to me that we have to decide two points: 
first, would it be possible for each girl to make any garment she chooses; 
second, how shall we decide which garment to make. Let us take the 
first question. WTiat do you think?" Several hands went up and the 
teacher called on Helen who replied, "We don't know enough to make 
some of the articles named, especially the dress." 

The teacher replied, "We could plan a simple cotton dress but it 
would take a number of weeks to complete it and that would take us 
into the time of the year when you arc wearing wool dresses and if you 
waited until ne.\t summer to wear it, what would probably happen?" 
The girls looked at each other and laughed. One answered, "Well, I 
don't think I would be able to wear it if I grow as fast as I did last win- 
ter; why I didn't have a thing I could wear last spring." 

"Are there any other reasons why we cannot all make separate gar- 
ments?" asked the teacher. Again the hands went up and the teacher 
called on Marguerite who said, "I should think we would have to wait 
a good deal for help if we did that." 



154 THi; JOUBNAI, OF HOUE ECONOMICS [April 

"That is perfectly true for there arc eighteen girls in the class and only 
one teacher, and even if I worked very fast I could give each one only a 
few minutes time. We have only seventy-live minutes for a lesson and 
if you divide that by eighteen you see it gives about four minutes to 
each girl. We would surely save time and really accomplish more if 
we could plan something every girl would like to make and so have class 
instruction. Shall we try to plan it that way?" Replies of "yes" 
and nods of heads decided the question. 

"Now," continued the teacher, "about the second question. How 
shall we decide which garment to make? Shall we just choose any gar- 
ment or can you think of something that might help us decide on one 
or two particular garments? Think carefully a moment." 

The girls looked thoughtful but no very satisfactory reasons suggested 
themselves. One girl fmally said, "I wish I could use some little things 
that are in the machine drawer. I saw Gladys using a funny one the 
other day when I came in to bring you the note from Miss H ." 

"You mean the attachments on the machine," repUed the teacher; 
"the 'funny one' you saw Gladys using was the tucker. I certainly see 
no reason why you cannot use the tucker if you wish, provided, of course, 
that the garment you choose to make requires tucking." 

This reply started a perfect avalanche of "oh, may I's," and after a 
bit of discussion the teacher said, "I am wondering, girls, if you have not 
found the answer to our question of how to decide which garment to 
make. Suppose we make a list of the things about sewing that you 
already know and a second list of the things, like the tucker, that you 
want to know more about and then see which garment will give the 
most experience and practice. Do you think that a good idea?" 

The idea apparently found favor from the rapidity with which the 
replies were given, and the teacher had a hard time writing fast enough 
to keep up. The first list, helped out by a question or two on forgotten 
points, was about like this: 

What the girls already knew: Sewing — basting, hemming, threading 
and plain stitching on the machine, names of parts of machine, French 
seam, button-hole (more knowledge needed), turning a hem and stitch- 
ing it. Textiles — meaning of the terms bias, selvedge, lengthwise, cross- 
wise, filling, warp; ability to recognize gingham, percale, and toweling, 
to recognize design as made by the use of dyed yarns (structural design), 
to recognise design as made by printing (applied design), to recognise 
plain weave. 



1920] AN EIGHTH GRADE CLASS COURSE OF STUDY 155 

The second list was much more difficult to make than the first, since 
the girls were not always able to name the work about which they wished 
to know. The teacher began by using the fact about the sewing machine 
which had already been mentioned and then called for more requests. 
A few suggested by the first Hst were given readily, but on this very 
account they were in the nature of a review such as "more about seams, 
straighter stitching on the French seam, and more work on button- 
holes." 

"Try to remember how the clothing you have on is made and I am 
sure it will give you ideas," said the teacher; and it did, for "how to 
make plackets," "how to gather and put on a band," and "trimming" 
were the products. When trimming was mentioned the teacher asked, 
"How many kinds of trimming can you recognise if I show them to 
you, and of how many can you tell me the names?" 

Lace was the only one of which the girls were sure and, like "Pigs is 
Pigs," there were no distinctions even in that. The teacher named 
several kinds of laces and several types of trimming with the result that 
the girls wanted to be able to recognise at least three or four. 

Again there was a pause and the teacher suggested, "Last year you 
made aprons and before we started them we studied several materials 
to discover which one was best suited to the purpose. Could you use 
those materials, gingham or percale, to make a nightgown or "teddy?" 
The verj' idea! Of course it would be necessary to find out about the 
right kinds of cloth to be used for nightgowns and it developed that sev- 
eral girls had heard their mothers ask for longcloth and one girl had heard 
the word "nainsook." Said the teacher, "When you go into the store 
for the material what else must you know besides the name of the goods? 
Mary may answer." 

"I should want to feel of it to see if it is thin enough." 

"Yes, you will study the quality first, and having made your choice, 
what next?" 

"Tell how many yards I need," replied Mary. 

"How many yards are you going to ask for and how will you decide?" 
asked the teacher. Mary was unable to answer so the question was 
passed to Dorothy who replied, "I should think you would measure as 
we did for our aprons." 

"Oh, we have to have a pattern and measure it," exclaimed two or 
three at once. 



156 THE JOIKNAL OF IIOMK KCDN'OinCS (April 

"Oh, can we use one of the patterns that come in an envelope like my 
mother uses, instead of the brown paper patterns we used for our aprons?" 
asked a girl who liad been sitting quietly and without much apparent 
interest. 

"Wc surely will," replied the teacher. "Can you tell us how the pat- 
tern your mother uses differs from ours?" 

"It is made of tissue paper and has little round holes in it," replied 
Thelma. 

"The tissue pattern is usually spoken of as the commercial pattern 
and the "little holes" are the perforations that tell us how to place the 
pattern on the cloth for cutting," remarked the teacher adding pattern 
to the list of desirable knowledge and then writing the words commercial, 
pattern, and perforation, on the board and pronouncing them again as 
she wrote them. 

"You girls probably do not know," she continued, "that patterns are 
made in what is called 'sizes' and each size carries with it a certain set 
of measures. Now while the measures are very carefully taken for each 
size and the patterns do fit very well indeed, yet, because people vary so 
much in form it is always necessary to take one's own measures and test 
each pattern before it is used. So I will add these points under patterns. 
Once, when I was in New York, I visited the great Butterick Building 
and saw how the 'Delineator' patterns were made. Some day when we 
have time I will tell you about the wonderful things I saw there. Well, 
this begins to look like a pretty big task, let us run over it again to 
be sure it is just as we want it." 

The second list, telling what the girls wanted to know: more about the 
machine appliances; more about seams — (reviewing French seam to 
improve stitching), a new seam flat fell; more work on button-holes; 
how to put on trimming; to be able to recognize three or four kinds of 
trimming; how to gather and put on a band; how to make a placket — 
continuous; about patterns — what the perforations mean, how to order, 
how to test the size; more about cloth — another kind of weave, the 
names of more materials, ability to recognize them. 

"Now," continued the teacher, "let us go back and think about the 
garment we are going to make and see what we can learn on the garments 
we have here in our list. Which one do you want to discuss first, since 
we have crossed out the dress?" Two girls mentioned the "teddy." 

"Can you girls all use a 'teddy?' " asked the teacher. "Someone said 
a while ago that her mother would not let her wear one, who was it? 



1920] AN EIGHTH GRADE CLASS COURSE OF STUDY 157 

Oh, Marion it was you, do you know why your mother objects to the 
'teddy?' " 

"Well, Mother says I can wear them when my dresses are longer, but 
now I have to wear bloomers because I run so much and mother says 
they look better under my dresses." 

"That is what I suspected for I have heard other mothers say the same 
thing. Suppose we leave the 'teddy' for a few minutes and look at the 
bloomers and nightgown and see what we can learn on those two, and 
if the two girls who spoke of the 'teddies' still want to make them per- 
haps we can compromise. Here is a pair of bloomers I have borrowed 
for you to look at. What kind of seams are used?" 

As the class mentioned each point in the construction the teacher 
wrote it on the board and then said, 

"Well the bloomer is a pretty good garment to work on, I should 
judge, for you see how it fits into our list, flat fell seams on the leg, French 
seam on the body, hems on the bottoms of the legs and elastic to make it 
fit at the knee, two plackets, one on each side, two belts, a curved yoke 
belt in front to take out some of the bulk and to make it fit nicely, and 
a straight one in back. And see all the button-holes for practice too." 

"But," objected one of the girls who had asked about the teddy, "I 
want to use the tucker and there are no tucks on the bloomers." 

"And there's no lace trimming either," added another. 

"No, that is so, but let us see about the nightgown, could you make 
tucks on that; and how about the trimming, couldn't you make and 
trim a nightgown in about the same way that you would a 'teddy?' 
How do you like this one?" She held a dainty garment up to view. 
Exclamations of pleasure were expressed by many of the girls and Marion 
asked, "Did you make that. Miss Black?" 

"Yes, ' answered the teacher, "and I see no reason why you girls 
cannot make one even prettier." 

"Now," she continued, "we shall have two lessons a week this year 
instead of one lesson a week which we had last year, and I think we can 
make two garments. What do you girls think about the bloomers and 
nightgown? Can you make use of both? With a few exceptions the 
girls said they could, and asked which garment was to be made first. 

"That is for you girls to decide, but remembering the time of year 
(September) and the fact that it will take several weeks to make either, 
which would be most useful and which would you need first?" 

The bloomers were decided upon as the first problem and the teacher 
continued: "It is just time for us to close. Will the three or four girls 



158 TIEE JOXTRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

who were not sure about needing bloomers ask their mothers about them 
and sec me before the next lesson? Hy the way, what do you think we 
ought to do next lesson?" 

"Practice on the machine," "buy our cloth," "start practice on the 
button-hole," were some of the answers. 

"Yes, I think we can do at least two of those things, review the ma- 
chine and the French seam and find out about suitable material for the 
bloomers. Now it is time to dismiss until tomorrow." 

As the class filed out the teacher seated herself at the desk and picking 
up a paper began to compare an outline which was written upon it with 
the outline of sewing the girls had helped to plan. Running her pencil 
down the list she paused at "machines" and read "How to set a needle." 

"No," she mused, "there did not seem to be a good place to bring it 
in but with a little judicious carelessness I think I can make it necessary." 

Again she paused at the two headings marked Health, and Art Prin- 
ciples, and addressed them: "Poor old fellows, so you did not get asked 
in. Well you know it would have been bad manners to have dragged 
you in by the hair of your heads, and any way after the careless manner 
in which you have been used in the past by people who did not think 
as highly of you as I do, I doubt if you would have sur\ived. However, 
if you will call again at the "psychological" moment, I think you can 
safely count on being invited to enter." 

Just at this moment the eighth grade teacher entered and said, "WTiat 
are you talking to yourself about?" 

"My eighth grade class have just made their own course of study for 
the coming half year; there it is on the board and here is the one we 
planned last spring. How do you think they compare?" 

The teacher compared the two as indicated and then said, 

"But I still do not see the idea. Why did you ask the girls to make 
their own course when you had already decided upon it?" 

"Well, I have thought for a long time that I should like to see how my 
own plans would coincide with the ideas of the girls themselves. It 
seems to me, too, that I shall be meeting a 'present situation' and 'mak- 
ing subject-matter meet the needs of the child,' and helping them 'to 
solve real and \'itar problems when they have themselves made a 'pres- 
ent situation' by recognizing and telling me of their needs and wishes. 
Mastering the use of that tucker will be a 'real and vital problem' all 
right if they are to make tucks on their nightgowns, and as for wanting 
a nightgown, well if you could have seen their eyes you would not doubt 
their interest. It seems to me that we already have 'motive' enough to 



1920] LIFE STUDIES AND HOME ECONOMICS 159 

run us through the entire term without stimulating any more. Why," 
laughingly, "I believe I can even furnish motive for some special reading 
with you, for of course the girls are going to be interested in finding out 
something about the people who make the ready-to-wear garments like 
those we are making." 

"It certainly sounds interesting and I shall gladly do my share to help 
out in the reading. I suppose you have the Consumer's League material 
in mind?" 

"Yes, that and possibly some other reading such as the Geographical 
readers of Allen, McMurray, Keller, and Bishop. WTiat do you think 
about them?" 

"I am sure they will be useful, and I will take an hour any day after 
school to go over them with you." 

"All right, that is fine; let us plan to do it next week." 



FARM LIFE STUDIES AND THEIR RELATION TO HOME 
ECONOMICS WORKi 

C. J. GALPEN 

Bureau of Farm Management, Washington, D. C. 

The life side of the farm home will be one of the research projects in 
Farm Life Studies in the OfHcc of Farm Management, just as the 
physical basis of the farm home is at present one of the subjects of in- 
vestigation by the Oflke of Home Economics in the States Relations 
Service. Farm Life Studies will not undertake to explore the technical 
aspects of food, dietetics, clothing, household equipment, household 
work, or household management of the farm home, but will be concerned 
primarily with the state of mind of the members of that home. Farm 
Life Studies will give attention to the social situations facing farm life 
and the consequent problems arising in the home. While home eco- 
nomics work, on the investigative side, is concerned mainly with the 
physical basis of the farm home, Farm Life Studies will be centered on 
the analysis of the social elements in the farm home situation. 

' Read by title at the Twelfth Annual Meeting of the .\merican Home Economics Asso- 
ciation, Blue Kidge, \. C, June, 1919. 



160 TIIE JOURNAL OF HOUK ECONOMICS [April 

An analysis of household situations, neighborhood situations, and 
community situations in such a way as to display the states of mind 
ofthc people concerned should assist in the wholesome adjustment of all 
sorts of human relationships on the farm. The farm home, for example, 
may be out of the general current of present day life, having little to do 
with the thought and activity of the world at large. The life of the 
home consequently may be so simple as to be too simple. The wants 
of the members may come to be so belated and backward that the home 
will fail to see the value of an expanded physical basis for its life. Pub- 
licity of the causes of farm home isolation should tend to remove this 
isolation and enable farm homes to participate in the current of afifairs, 
making it easier for all to raise the standard of physical life on the 
farm. 

Farm home life is peculiar in the fact that, as at present organized, it 
involves an economic partnership of the man, the woman, and the child. 
This partnership, moreover, frequently reaches its maturity only when 
the farm itself passes from the hands of the man into the complete 
ownership of the child who, by that time, will have reached manhood. 
The social situation of the farm home, therefore, in many cases constitutes 
a family cycle which is a little larger than the unit usually accounted 
as a home. The grandfather and grandmother, the father and mother, 
the children, make up this family unit, even though living in two sepa- 
rate houses. The farm, owned by the grandfather, is apt to pass from 
entire management by the grandfather through the several stages of 
management by the son, tenancy by the son, possibly part ownership 
by the son — all within the grandfather's life. Farm Life Studies will 
observe carefully this family cycle and situation; studying the child as 
an apprentice to farming; as manager for his father; as tenant of his 
father; as owner with his father; as complete owner. It will study the 
retreat of the father from the farm as his energy wanes; as he gives over 
his farm by degrees to his son; as he finally retires from fanning to the 
town or to a house on the land. 

Farm Life Studies vdW observe the spiritual role of the woman in the 
home as the interpreter of one family (her cwti) to another (her hus- 
band's) and of her children to their father, and the father to his children. 
The role of the child as the bringer in to the family of the things of life 
which are new will not be overlooked. 

The use and distribution of leisure on the part of members of the 
farm home will be studied. Diaries are already available showing just 



1920] LIFE STUDIES AKD HOME ECONOMICS 161 

when this leisure comes in the day at the different seasons, and exactly 
what has been done with the leisure. 

Certain social aspects of the location of the farm house will be included 
in our study. The farm house has too frequently shunned even the 
roadside, going back into a field for its site. The stream of Ufe mean- 
while moves along main roads. The question of the social value of 
location on residence roads and the social detriment of location on 
back roads will engage our attention. 

Such home questions as the following will also be considered in Farm 
Life Studies: 

Is home-making on farms popular with superior country-bred young 
women? If not, why not? If so, in some locahties and not in others, 
what are the reasons? 

Are young men, of a superior type, especially after some educational 
advantages, attracted to farm life in open competition with other 
occupations? If not, why not? 

What is the distribution of time among tasks of the household, farm 
work, and leisure in contented farm homes? 

What is the relation of the man, the woman, and the child to the 
farm income in the intelligent, contented farm home? 

Do the woman and child participate in the management of the farm in 
the inteUigent, contented farm home? 

How are the necessary unsightly parts of farm work screened from 
the view of the farm house on farms where beauty is organized into 
farm home life? 

The Division of Farm Life Studies seeks to assist the various depart- 
ments of rural life work by a careful exploration of the social aspects of 
all phases of farm life, and to cooperate to the full with all those at 
work upon one phase or another of agriculture or of home life in a 
common task. 



162 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECOXOiHCS (April 

THE PIIYSICIAX /VND THE DIETETIAN' 

HUGH P. GREELY, M.D. 
Medical School, University of Wisconsin 

It may be truly said that a hospital kitchen without a dietitian is 
like a locomotive without the engineer. There is plenty of food in 
one case and plenty of steam in the other, but the energy in them is 
wasted unless properly directed. .\ locomotive with an engineer and a 
fireman is an eflkient instrument of service, but they need an organi- 
zation higher up in order to properly serve the public. In the same way 
a hospital kitchen plus a dietitian is an efficient instrument of service, 
but needs, in fully as great a degree, the intelligent staff of physicians 
in order to serve patients properly. 

In the past a great many hospitals have been run without dietitians. 
In such a case the physicians or the hospital superintendent did the 
work of the dietitian, or too often it was left to an untrained cook. 

We are glad to be entering this new era where the physician may 
have the intelligent cooperation of the trained dietitian. In well organ- 
ized hospitals today the physicians cannot adequately administer this 
work without help. Dietitians are or should be trained to give this 
help. They bear the same relationship to the physician as the phar- 
macist does. They fill the prescription. But success requires a great 
deal more than technical training. The successful pharmacist does 
not just throw the ingredients together. He prepares his drugs care- 
fully, compounds his prescription accurately, and then dispenses it as 
tastefully and neatly as it can be done. He must also exercise economy. 
The same thing applies a hundred fold to the dietitian. Food repre- 
sents calories, but should not be ser%'ed as such. Economy, care in 
preparation, both as to quality and balance, and ser\-ing are the impor- 
tant things to consider. A dietitian is selling goods in the same way 
that the pharmacist is and she must sell service as well. 

For a long time the dietitian was accepted rather reluctantly by the 
hospital board of trustees. The hospital dietitian had rather to force 
her way along and prove her worth. She has not always made good, 
so that her employment has often failed to produce the good results 

' Presented at the meeting of the Institution Economics Section of the American Home 
Economics .Vssociation, Madison, Wis., June, 1919. 



1920] THE PHYSICIAN ANT) THE DIETITIAN 163 

that it should. Her failure is not always her fault, for hers is not an 
independent profession. Coming into the hospital organization under 
sufferance, having to prove her own value to the hospital, she has 
seldom been given the power necessary to develop herself and the job 
as it should be done. Without broad power, her function resolves itself 
into the work of preparing special diets, which, to be sure, is important 
and necessary work, but work which is after all restricted to a small 
number of patients. 

There has been further difEculty in the path of the dietitian in the 
failure of the hospital staffs of physicians to impress upon the trustees 
the necessity for conferring broader power on the dietitian. This 
cooperation between physician and dietitian is manifestly impossible in 
all hospitals in which there is no unified medical and surgical staff. 
Therefore in many small hospitals the proper sphere of action of the 
dietitian is greatly restricted and hampered. A hospital cannot be 
efficient in this respect without a unified staff. The dietitian and the 
medical staff are responsible for the hospital dietary. When we con- 
sider that the average daily cost per patient in a modern hospital is 
from $3.50 to $4.50 a day, and when we realize that fully one-third of this 
sum is spent for food, we can see that this divided responsibiHty is a 
highly important factor. 

The medical staff and the dietitian are responsible for one-third of all 
hospital expenses. As long as people are unwilling or unable to pay hotel 
prices for hospital care, it may be impossible to cater to patients' indi- 
vidual tastes to any degree. The result will be that the vast majority 
of patients must have served them a standard diet. In a city of mixed 
population, one can readily see how difficult it is to serve foods equally 
suited to separate individual tastes. It would be ideal if the American 
people could have a standard American diet. After many centuries of 
education, we shall probably work out such a Utopian idea, and then the 
hospital dietitian's path will be simplified. At the present time we 
have to take the situation as it is, and, in order to do the work well, 
the unified medical staff should meet with the dietitian and plan a few 
standard diets, just as few as possible. These diets should be based 
on principles of nutrition and, as far as consistent, on accepted habits 
of eating. It is of the utmost importance often that people's habits 
should not be suddenly interrupted. When these standard diets are 
compiled, they should be issued to the medical staff so that they could 
all cooperate in simplifying the work and avoiding waste. 



164 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

As I look upon it, the success of the dietitian of any hospital lies in 
her having broad power, in her being well-trained technically and also 
as an administrator, in her being a person of common sense, and in 
her ha\Tng the definite cooperation of a unified medical staff. WTiat 
makes her so often a failure today is this lack of direction higher up. 

The profession of hospital dietitian should be one of indispen.sable bene- 
fit to modern medicine as well as to modern hospital organization. The 
food problem of a modern hospital is as difficult and as important as any 
problem which the hospital trustees have to face. It is one which will 
require all their business acumen to .solve. Too many hospitals in the 
past have been run on a diametrically opposite plan from that of the 
successful hotel, whose motto is "The guest is always right." The 
attitude of many highly organized hospitals often seems to be "The 
patient is always wrong" or "Take what you get and be thankful and 
cheerful. Don't express an opinion. Patients shouldn't have opin- 
ions." The hotel plan proves a financial success; the hospital plan is 
almost always a financial failure. There are, of course, many other fac- 
tors which contribute to this failure, but there are also factors which 
should partially, at least, counterbalance them. The hospital gets a 
lot of its most expensive service gratis. 

It is the business of the dietitian, the medical staff and the trustees, 
to work out a successful compromise between the hotel plan which is a 
success and the hospital plan which is a failure. We ought to work out 
something which will at least enable us to come out even and which will 
be a great improvement upon the imperfect system that exists in many 
hospitals today. I firmly believe that some patients in hospitals ought 
to have a menu pri\-ilege. This would not necessarily add to the work 
and it would add enormously to the attractiveness of a place that had 
all too few attractions. We are still combating the old idea that the 
hospital is the place to go when you are going to die, not the place for the 
best and most comfortable treatment, — and what is still more fre- 
quently heard and something that cannot always be refuted is, "I 
would go to the hospital but you can't get anything to eat there." 

The problem of the best management of a hospital dietar\' is still an 
unsettled one. But one can readily see that the dietitian is the key- 
stone in the arch. She is the go-between between the physician and 
his patient. She occupies a position that requires more than good 
training. It rests upon a thorough understanding of food principles, 



1920] THE PHYSICIAN AND THE DIETITIAN 165 

upon a practical knowledge of cooking, upon thorough-going common 
sense and good administrative ability as well as tact and enthusiasm. 

There is another type of dietitian, however, whose importance is not 
recognized and whose sphere of action is at present limited, and that is 
the nurse qualified as a dietitian. The time is surely coming, I hope, 
when people who command S25.00 to $35.00 a week will be even more 
highly-trained than they are today. Nothing will ever justify the 
present exalted position of the nursing profession or put it on its proper 
footing until it adopts the academic standard. 

The opportunity for service and the emolument of nurses should 
immediately demand this step. Every trained nurse should be enough 
of a dietitian so that she could fill dietary prescriptions at the patient's 
home as well as the pharmacist does a drug prescription. The future of 
the nurse as dietitian in the home will be an increasingly ;^reat one. Do 
not think for a moment it is lowering the dignity of the dietitian. It 
would be raising the profession of nursing. 

As with any new profession like that of dietitian, it takes a generation 
or so to get it properly adjusted in its niche. Practical details can 
only be worked out through expeiimentation and finally perfected. All 
this takes time. Meanwhile the stress is apt to be put on the theory, 
and if I were to make a criticism it would be to say just this, that the 
training today is overloaded with the theory of metabolism and nutri- 
tion, and perhaps too little attention paid to the perfecting of practical 
details of the hospital dietary. The science of metabolism is also young 
and what seem to be facts today are fable tomorrow. The treatment of 
metabolic disease is only a very small part of medicine, and, though an 
important one, occupies, I feel, an exaggerated place in the training 
school today. 

What we need is the recognition by hospital trustees that the dietitian 
is not only necessary to the physician but pays her own salary many 
times over in the more efficient and economical management of the 
hospital kitchen. Physicians are every year more eager to welcome 
her as an indispensable and permanent agent in the organization of 
modem medicine. 



166 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

POSSIBILITIES IN HOME ECONOMICS WORK 

MELISSA FARRELL SNYDER 
Office of Home Economics, ViiiUj Sljles Department of Agrictilture 

If the average of all salaries paid to home economics workers could be 
known, the figure would probably be small. This is because the majority 
of positions are in school work where the pay for all subjects is notori- 
ously low. Moreover, many important colleges and universities have 
not yet felt the necessity of raising the salaries of the home economics 
staff to the maximum allowed for each grade. In spite of these facts, 
however, those familiar with the entire field of home economics have for 
some time been aware of an upward trend in salaries. The opportuni- 
ties outside of the teaching profession have been increasing in number, 
variety, and salary, and this fact is beginning to have its effect on the 
salaries paid in colleges and universities, especially for positions involving 
administrative work. 

This opinion is borne out by the data here presented. They were ob- 
tained from voluntary replies to questions sent by the Office of Home 
Economics to a limited number of exceptionally well-informed workers 
in home economics. They make no pretensions to giving accurate in- 
formation regarding the entire field, and are given here merely as an 
interesting indication of the probable trend of things in home economics 
work outside of high and elementary school teaching and Federal em- 
ployment. 

In tabulating the information the positions were grouped as: Teaching 
and administrative work in Colleges, Universities, and Technical Schools; 
Managerial; Dietitians; Commercial; Journalistic; and Miscellaneous. 
The positions were classified according to the names given them by the 
informants; for example, work reported as managerial was grouped as 
such even when it might as well or better have been classed as commer- 
cial. Three hundred and ten indi\'idual positions are included in the 
report. The total range of salaries is from S700 to 810,000. 

The tabulations for the dilTerent groups are on file in the office of the 
Journal. The information furnished by them may be summarized as 
follows: 

College and universily positions. These call for from 85 to 12 months 
of work per year. The pay ranges from S800 to $5000; $7000 is a pos- 
sible figure in one university, though this amount has never been given 



1920] POSSIBILITIES IN HOME ECONOMICS WORK 167 

in actual practice. In the lower paid positions, such as instructors, 
board or room, or both, are sometimes provided in addition. In the 
higher grades, as for heads of departments, the positions often involve 
administrative work, either with or without teaching. The average 
figures for different grades of work run from S1066 for assistant instruct- 
ors to $4067 for deans; the latter figure represents a small number of 
"picked" institutions and is doubtless considerably higher than a com- 
plete average for the entire country. 

Technical school positions. The salaries paid range from $900 for an 
instructor or teacher to $2850 for a head of a department. The average 
salaries for the diilerent grades run from $1367 for instructors to $1950 
for heads of departments. 

Managerial positions. This group includes institutional managers, 
both resident and non-resident; managers of cafeterias, tea and lunch 
rooms, and club dining rooms; and the so-called managers employed by 
commercial firms to introduce food products or household equipment. 
The salaries range from $720 to $5000. Board and lodgmg are almost 
always provided in addition in case of the very low salaries. When the 
work involves travel, additional allowance is usually made to cover the 
actual added expense, but such allowance does not necessarily compen- 
sate for the probable wear and tear of the manager's health and personal 
belongings. One manager earned $400 in addition to her regular salary 
by teaching institutional management. The average salaries in the 
different groups of positions here included ranged from $1656 for institu- 
tional management to $5000 for the commercial positions. 

Positions as dietitian. Salaries ranged from $700 to $4000. This 
minimum is the lowest reported in this study, but, as in managerial 
positions, board or lodging or both were frequently allowed. In some 
instances one month vacation is allowed, in others monthly increases of 
$10 after the first three months. The average salary for the different 
types of positions ranges from $990 to $3500. This minimum represents 
army dietitians and includes a monthly war bonus of $20; in addition 
they receive maintenance estimated at $62.20 per month. The ma.xi- 
mum includes positions in which the work of dietitian is combined with 
that of institutional manager. 

Commercial positions. These include experts employed by banks, 
hotels, and land companies; in manufacture and marketing of foods and 
textiles; in research and testing work; as instructors to sales force and 
factory employees, and in many other unspecified lines. Salaries range 



168 THE JOURNAL OF HOlfE ECONOMICS [April 

from $1040 to $10,000 with averages of from $1900 to $7500. One posi- 
tion pays $300 per month with board. These lines of work give promise 
of good remuneration. 

Positions in journalism. This covers editorial and publicity work 
for newspapers, magazines, and farm papers. The salaries range from 
$1500 to S10,000. One newspaper paid a recent graduate $50 a week for 
two hours daily work. The average is S3200, or, counting out the one 
exceptionally high salary of $10,000, $2.^50. This line of work, like the 
commercial field, offers attractive opportunities for women with the 
necessary qualifications. 

Miscellaneous positions. Here are classed supervisors and directors 
not associated with a single institution but maintained by state, city or 
other general agency; visiting housekeepers; social welfare workers; head 
of agricultural league; unspecified positions. The salaries range from 
SIOOO to S7500. In one case the salary is increased after three months; 
in another the pay is SlOO a week and transportation expense; in an- 
other all travelling expenses are given in addition to the salary; in still 
another, room, board, and laundry. 

It may be worth noting that the average of the 310 salaries here con- 
sidered is S2307; 59.4 per cent of the salaries come below this amount 
and 40.6 per cent above it. The best paying positions are in the com- 
mercial and journalistic fields, which are rivals in the opportunities of- 
fered, but it should be noted that the higher salaries are paid to women 
of unusual qualifications and experience; such amounts as the three 
$10,000 salaries included in the tabulations are very excptional. Nexte 
in order of compensation come the managerial and a few of the miscel- 
laneous positions, such as state supervisors. The apparent salary of 
these is in some instances increased by maintenance, especially in the 
case of managers and dietitians. In comparing teacher's salaries, allow- 
ance must be made for the number of weeks' vacation allowed; the extra 
compensation given for teaching during the summer term varies in dif- 
ferent institutions. 

While these figures perhaps represent the "cream" of positions in 
home economics, they indicate that the openings for women of compar- 
able training and ability, compare favorably with those in other lines. 
They also indicate that the increasing connection between home eco- 
nomics and the business world is widening the opportunities for home 
economics workers, and in so doing tends to increase the salaries paid 
for the older types of work. 



1920] AUMENTARY HYGIENE IN THE YEAR 3000 169 

ALIMENTARY HYGIENE AND RATIONAL ALIMENTATION 
IN THE YEAR 3000 

ALICE F. MENDEL 

Authors have frequently exposed the faults of civilization by forecast- 
ing conditions of the future. So Bellamy has done in "Looking Back- 
ward," and H. G. Wells in "The War of the Worlds." This method is 
employed also by Dr. A. Hemmerdinger of Paris in divining the food 
conditions in the socialistic world of the year 3000 in a far-distant planet 
to which the reader is transplanted by aeroplane. The subtle criticisms 
of present day conditions are not without interest to students of home 
economics. * 

Do not think that we, men of the thirtieth century, are much better than 
those of the preceding. We are only a httle more intelligent, a little more 
conscious of our interest, a little better informed; we understand a certain 
number of old truths in the sense that we have applied them. We understand 
that, of all the riches at our disposal for conquering the world, the most 
important and indispensable is man himself. We understand that man will 
yield the best possible results only if he is nourished in the best conditions. 

Finally we understand that, if an appropriate food is indispensable to the 
adult in order to produce the best results, it is still more important for the 
adolescent, and most of all for the nursUng, the being just born, whose organs 
are entirely transformed for all life, physically and intellectually, by a deter- 
mined nourishment. These are the bases on which our alimentation reposes. 
We distinguish among human beings four periods: the nursUng, the infant, 
the adolescent, the adult. 

As Wells had thought way back in the twentieth century, we believe that 
the community cannot be disinterested in the feeding of the nursling, since 
its diet is at the basis of all society. The physiologists have taught us defi- 
nitely that for the new born child one nourishment alone is correct, the milk 
of its mother; and, as we have judged that nourishment indispensable, we 
organized in order to provide it in the greatest possible number of cases. We 
begin by taking the young girl, the child at school, and at the same time that 
we teach her to read and to write, we teach her simple, but indispensable ideas, 
concerning puericulture. 

Moreover, as we consider that the woman who nurses a child fills the most 
useful role in society, we think that role ought to be compensated. Hence 

' The free and abbreviated translation that follows is from an article in the Bullelin de 
la SocUtt Scienlijique D'Hygiene Alimentaire, Paris, 1919, VII, no. 3, p. lOS. 



170 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS (April 

the nursinK mother receives a salary equal to that of the best craftsman in the 
most dilTicull craft, so that there is not that atrocity of the twentieth century — 
a mother obliged to sell to a stranger the milk destined for her child. 

In spite of this amelioration for the health of all humanity, there arc still 
cases where the mother cannot completely nourish her child. Another mother 
must supply the needed milk. 

Inasmuch as we know that the milk of the ass is most like that of a woman, 
we have established large parks where we raise these animals. These parks 
are placed under the care of distinguished hygienists; the animals are kept 
in a good state of health, and they furnish a milk which can be given raw for 
mixed feeding and is especially good for solely artificial nutriment. 

We know that milk is indispensable to nurslings because of its vitamines. 
Infantile mortality, which involved, in the twentieth century, at least half of 
the births in certain countries like France, is lowered to almost zero, for that 
mortality was assassination by poor nutrition. 

This is what we have done for the infant, and I add that society does not 
hesitate to take from the mother the infants — the case is e.xceptional — who 
are not raised according to the principles of growth. We believe that the 
child does not belong to its mother, but to the community, which delegates to 
the mother the right and duty of raising it, as she is the best qualified for that; 
nevertheless society does not hesitate to withdraw that role from her who does 
not know how to fill it. 

From the time the child ceases to be a nursling until it is seven or eight years 
old, physiologists teach us that good milk is still needed. Now, the milk of 
the ass is no longer necessarj'; the milk of the cow suffices and we have given 
every care to the creation of large, collective dairies. We think that milk, 
that food most precious for all — children, certain invalids, the old, and even 
adults — ought to be the object of a very particular care. We have therefore 
eliminated, little by little, those criminals of the twentieth century-, the milk 
defrauders. We have concluded there were no greater criminals in society, 
and we have sent them to the planet ^lars and the race has gradually dis- 
appeared. 

We no longer give entire freedom to the parents in the feeding of the ado- 
lescent. His regimen becomes more difficult to regulate than that of the in- 
fant and, as we think that an exactly regulated diet is indispensable to his 
proper development, we furnish it gratuitously, under the care of our hygien- 
ists. As man becomes less and less carnivorous, our adolescents can, in 
general, find in milk and eggs what is necessary for their growth. 

In the case of the adult, knowing better how to proportion the qualitative 
need of nitrogenous matter, we have been able to diminish the quantitative 
requirement. Appreciating the importance of certain microorganisms added 
to our food, we have been able to diminish the ration, with the result that M. 



1920] ALIMENTARY HYGIE>rE IN THE YEAR 3000 171 

Berthelot's complete ration, in the form of a tablet, becomes a small por- 
tion ; the aIlov;ance necessary for the repast of the day is placed gratuitously 
at the disposition of those who ask for it. As a matter of fact they are few. 

No one is obliged to work to live and therefore every one labors, because 
work is necessary for man, and because Berthelot's tablet is not verj' pleasant. 
All prefer the old alimentation according to the ancient method of cooking, 
which can be had only by working, to the short rations sufficient for living 
and which can be obtained gratuitously — for we have admitted that the being 
who has not asked to live in the world has the right to live. 

In truth we have greatly perfected the kitchen, where everything is done 
by electricity so that the cook is no longer obliged to soil his hands. Cookery 
has become the most important branch of medicine. Next to the mother 
nursing her child, we consider the cook to be the most useful member of so- 
ciety. Much more is asked of liim than in barbarous times. The chef must 
know not only how to cook, but also how to plan a menu according to indi- 
vidual needs. We have large community kitchens, where every one can sup- 
ply himself, either by eating at the place, or having his repast sent to his home. 
Each is free to choose his menu as he requires. But those who are not epecially 
interested in cooking need only give the chef their weight and their occupation 
for which they will receive a suitable menu. This is not the same for him who 
does manual labor as for him who does intellectual work. Moreover, there is 
no longer need of computing the calories of the diet; the cook knows perfectly 
how to apportion the condiments and to present the food so that the appetite 
of each may be the best guide. The problem belongs entirely to the chef. 

Has the family cook disappeared? Not at all. Many women have learned 
cookery, for, having looked after the family taste, they have admitted — as 
was thought formerly — that household cares, the preparation of the food and 
family life were worthy occupations not inferior to any other vocation and 
also not without charm. 

Our diet has become much more vegetarian, because the great obstacles 
of the twentieth century no longer e.\ist — lack of time to prepare vegetables, 
and the difficulty of transporting all the exotic fruits. The community 
kitchen has solved the first problem, the aeroplane the second. Wine is rarely 
used at our tables and alcohol has entirely disappeared. 

This picture which I have drawn for you, this dream of the year 3000, can 
become a reality in 100 years, in 40, less, perhaps. Are there not already some 
timid attempts? For instance, canteens where mothers obtain food gratui- 
tously. 

Science is the great revolutionist. If its results are translated into practice, 
the face of the world will be convulsed much more surely, much more com- 
pletely, than by the most bloody revolutions. 



172 THE JOURNAL OF HOtiE ECONOMICS [April 

A PLAN FOR REDUCING EXPENSES IN A SCHOOL LUNCH 

ROOM' 

BLANCHE tNCERSOLL 

If you are a home economics teacher, struggling with the question 
of finances, or with a school lunch room, or both, listen to the storj- of 
what we did last year in the Junior High School at Little Rock, Arkan- 
sas. One hundred girls were enrolled in the cooking classes, with one 
teacher. With the aid of the Supervisor of Home Economics and from 
one to five paid workers, these girls prepared and served lunch to 500- 
600 people, daily, in the school lunch room, with the result that in the one 
year the lunch room paid for itself, for the laboratory' supplies, and for 
most of the equipment. 

The supervisor planned the menus, bought all supplies, and managed 
the lunch room. The principal idea in the planning of the menus was to 
give the children good, wholesome food, food which would be nour- 
ishing and satisfying, and yet not hea^'y. The menu consisted of sev- 
eral hot dishes, sandwiches, ice cream, some sweets, and fruits. The 
"whole meal in one dish" idea was emphasized with the use of such 
dishes as stew with vegetables, meat hash, hamburger sandwiches. The 
child's taste was catered to by the service of dishes which children like, 
and foods for which they care less were made as attractive as possible. 
As a result the lunch room was popular with the students. At first the 
idea had been to serve food which would supplement the lunch brought 
from home, but the parents soon found out that the child could buy a 
better lunch for 20 cents in the school lunch room than could be put up 
at home for the same money. 

The cooking classes, meeting daily, prepared all food for the lunch 
room as laboratory work. The laboratorj'-kitchen was equipped with 
twelve stoves of the size used in the ordinary household, and all of the 
equipment was "family sized." The half-gallon double boiler was used 
and other things in proportion. The advantage in the use of such equip- 
ment rather than the large institution equipment, or the small cooking 
laboratory equipment, is readily seen. One class cooked potatoes, an- 
other class cocoa, each class preparing something which was on the day's 
menu, and each girl preparing a quantity which would ser\-e sLx people. 
In the case of foods requiring long cooking, it was necessarj' to begin 

' An interview with MjTtle Wilson, Supemsor of Home Economics, Little Rock, .\rk. 



1920] RZDUCING EXPENSES IN LUNCH ROOM 173 

the preparation one day and finish it the next, or to have one class partly 
cook the food and a later section finish it. 

The menus and lessons were planned so as to avoid repetition. After 
a few lessons on sandwiches, the sandwiches for each day were made by 
the paid workers. The girls were taught to make bread, but the bread 
for the lunch room was purchased, as was also the ice cream. The menu 
in the faculty room was varied so as to include corn bread, muffins, and 
other quick breads occasionally instead of sandwiches, thus gi\ing op- 
portunities for quick bread lessons to the classes. 

In the cafeteria most of the food sold for 5 cents a portion, but in the 
faculty room higher prices were charged. The girls computed the costs, 
figuring how much of one food could be served for 5 cents, and if a nor- 
mal portion cost more than 5 cents they determined how to make up the 
difference. It was surprising to see how quickly the girls — even the 
seventh grade girls — questioned the advisability of selling different sand- 
wiches, such as peanut butter, raisin, and pimento cheese, for the same 
price, but they soon saw that the profit on the peanut butter sandwich 
could be used to make up the loss on some other kind, so that all sand- 
wiches could be sold at the uniform price of 5 cents. They learned, too, 
that the profit on a vegetable soup served one day would make up the 
loss on a more e.vpensive cream soup sers'ed another day. 

In addition to preparing the food, the cooking classes performed all 
the work of the lunch room, each section serving during the noon hour 
for a month at a time. The paid workers merely supplemented the work 
of the classes. There was always a waiting Ust of girls who wanted to 
work for their lunch. Cafeteria service was used in the student lunch 
room and table service in the faculty room. The arrangement of the 
rooms, including the arrangement of the food on the steam table and on 
the counter, gave the girls some very valuable ideas as to sanitation and 
quantities of food. Each girl was given an opportvmity to serv^e in each 
different capacity — behind the counter, as checker or cashier, to make 
salads as they were needed, as waitress in the faculty room. Some very 
valuable experience in table service was secured in the faculty room. 
The orders were checked on menu cards, which were typewritten by the 
students in the commercial department. The girls filled the orders and 
served them. 

The cost of the food to the children was reduced by purchasing in 
large quantities at wholesale prices. The only expense, other than the 
cost of the food, was the wages of the paid workers. With more teachers. 



174 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOiHCS [April 

and consequently more sections, a greater variety of food could be 
served and fewer paid workers would be necessary. As was stated before 
— the lunch room was not only self supporting but eliminated all expend- 
itures for laboratory supplies and paid for most of the equipment. 

Aside from the advantage in dollars and cents to all the stu(5ents, this 
plan offers many special advantages to the girls in the cooking classes. 
Each girl becomes familiar with market prices, learns to estimate the 
cost of diflerent foods, has practical experience in handling the amounts 
of foods and equipment that would be used in the average family, learns 
the fundamentals of good table service, and developes a sense of responsi- 
bility. 



'A LITTLE NONSENSE NOW AND THEN" 

I yearn to bite on a colloid 

With phosphorus, iron, and beans; 
I want to be filled with calcium, grilled, 

And veg'table Vitamines! 

I yearn to bite on a colloid 

(Though I don't know what it means) 
To line my inside with potassium, fried, 

And veg'table Vitamines. 

I would sate my soul with spinach 

And dandelion greens, 
No eggs, nor ham, nor the hard boiled clam, 

But veg'table Vitamines. 

Hi, Waiter! Coddle the colloids 

With phosphorus, iron, and beans; 
Though mineral salts may have some faults 

Bring on the Vitamines. 

— A nonymous. 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

IS THERE A STANDARD BUDGET? 

ALICE P. NORTON 

What is the ideal division of the family budget for the year 1920? is an 
unanswerable question that has been put to the Journal. A few years 
ago there had been worked out for different sized incomes certain percent- 
ages that might be considered "ideal." It was never even then consid- 
ered that these could be used for families of different tjpes without modi- 
fication by variations in occupation, in location, in social demands. 
Today such percentages have little more than historic value. Not 
only has the cost of each item increased in different ratio, but changes 
in price occur with amazing rapidity. Before the results of a survey of 
prices is available, the material is out of date. 

If by a "standard budget" is meant one that may be presented as a 
model toward which individual families should endeavor to adjust the 
division of their incomes, any attempt to formulate such a standard is 
useless, and it is sometimes worse than useless to offer it to those who 
are seeking help in making a spending plan suited to their own special 
needs. If a "standard budget" means not a "model" but an example, 
and if it is based on legitimate needs and actual expenditures of large 
groups of people and on average prices, it may be of the greatest service 
as a guide, especially for one making a tentative plan. Such budgets 
are probably most serviceable when based on minimum standards at 
different "living levels." The Department of Labor suggests' as most 
important of these the "pauper or poverty level," in which families receive 
aid from charity or run into serious debt; the "minimum of subsistence 
level," based on mere animal existence with little allowed for social needs; 
the "minimum of health and comfort level," taking into account not 
mere material need, but education, some amusement, and some insur- 
ance, with consideration of self respect as well as decency. To this 
might be added the "minimum of luxury" level. Properly, in a well 
organized society no family should fall below the third level. 

' Monthly Ldhor Rcvicii', December, 1919. 

175 



176 THK JOURNAL OF HOJCK ECONOMICS [ApriJ 

In order to furnish information for the commission appointed by Con- 
gress on Reclassification of Salaries, the Department of Labor has lately 
published a budget for the family of a government employee in Wash- 
ington, based on the minimum comfort level. The family chosen was 
the so-called economic family, consisting of a husband, wife, and tliree 
children, a boy of eleven, a girl of five and a boy of two. It must be 
remembered in interpreting this budget that food is probably higher in 
Washington at present than in the majority of places in the country. 
According to various estimates six hundred dollars would provide the 
amount needed. Rents are also high. Each factor has been worked 
out with care. The budget is intended to provide for a sufficient amount 
of nourishing food for the maintenance of health; for housing in a low 
rent neighborhood with the smallest possible number of rooms consis- 
tent with decency, but with sufficient light, heat, and toilet facilities for 
the maintenance of health; for the upkeep of household equipment, with 
no pro\'ision for additional furnishing; for clothing suiTicient for warmth, 
of good quality, but with no further regard for appearance and style 
than necessary to avoid slovenliness or loss of self respect; for the keep- 
ing up of a modest amount of insurance, for contribution to church, for 
medical and dental care, simple occasional amusements, necessary street 
car fare and the daily paper. The simimary of the budget is given 
below. 

Summary of budget 

Cost of quantity budget at market prices 

I. Food S773 93 

II. Clothing: 

Husband $121 . 16 

Wife 1 66 . 46 

Boy (11 years) 96.60 

Girl (5 years) 82.50 

> Boy (2 years) 47 .00 

513 72 

m. Housing, fuel and light 428.00 

rV. Miscellaneous 546.82 

Total budget at market prices $2,262 .47 

Possible saving upon market cost by a family of extreme thrift, of high intelligence, great 
industry in shopping, good fortune in purchasing at lowest prices, and in which the wife is 
able to do a maximum amount of home work: 



1920] 



IS THERE A STANDARD BUDGET 



177 



I. Food (7i per cent) S58.04 

II. Clothing (10 per cent) 51 .37 

in. Housing 30.00 

rv. Miscellaneous 107 .50 

Total economies $246.91 

Total budget minus economies ; S2,015 . 56 

Other budget examples are given by the Home Economics Bureau of 
the Society for Savings in Cleveland. 

Two are included here. The headings under which the items are 
grouped differ somewhat from those used by the Department of Labor 
but they may easily be compared. These estimates are given by the 
month instead of the year. 



Suggested budget on monthly basis 



Sa\'ings 

Food 

Rent 

Clothing 

Operating . . . 
Advancement 



raCOUE $1,800 A YEAS 



Number in the family 



Two Three Four 



S20 00 
40.00 
30.00 
25.00 
15 00 
20.00 



S16.00 
44.00 
33.00 
25.00 
15.00 
17.00 



SIO 00 
48.00 
35.00 
30.00 
15.00 
12.00 



Five 



ScS.OO 
50 00 
35.00 
35.00 
15.00 



INCOME $2,400 A YEAS 



Number in the family 



Two Three Four 



$40.00 
42.00 
40.00 
30.00 
18.00 



7.00 30.00 



S27.00 
50.00 
40.00 
35.00 
18.00 
30.00 



S23.00 
58.00 
42.00 
35.00 
18.00 
24.00 



Five 



S22.00 
60.00 
42.00 
35.00 
18.00 
23.00 



The Sa\ings Division of the U. S. Treasury' Department in "How 
Other People Get Ahead" offered last year yet other examples. These 
are probably low in rent and housekeeping expenses for most localities 
today and it would be necessary to transfer to these items something 
from savings and from other items. 

Before attempting to make a budget, especially if one has not kept 
classified accounts upon which to base one's estimates, it is well to study 
such examples as have been given. Determining first whether one's 
income should put one in the "comfort" or the "liLxun,'" class, one may 
make such additions to the minimum standard in each class as the in- 
come allows and choice suggests. 



178 THE JOURNAL OF HOitE ECONOMICS [April 

ESTIMATING FOOD COSTS 

The housekeeper of today is becoming familiar with the term calorie, 
and the 100-calorie portion. She is seeing the value of training herself to 
estimate in a rough way the amount of food she is serving to her family. 
She is also learning that the food that is cheapest per pound is not al- 
ways the cheapest from the standpoint of the energy it furnishes to 
the body. 

In this day of high prices, she is interested in knowing what foods that 
will adequately feed the family can be bought most cheaply when figured 
on a sustenance basis rather than on a pound or pint basis. This table 
prepared by the Department of Agriculture is intended to help her do 
this in an easy way. By inserting the price per pound or bushel at the 
proper place in the third column of the table and dividing it by the cor- 
responding figure in the second column she can determine the price of a 
100-calorie portion of a particular food. For example, if she finds that 
sirloin steak is 50 cents a pound, she writes "50" opposite sirloin steak 
in the third column. Then she looks in the second column and finds, 
opposite sirloin steak, " 10 per pound." She divides 50 by 10. The quo- 
tient is 5. Five cents, therefore, is the price of a 100-calorie portion of 
sirloin steak. In exactly the same way she can find the cost per 100- 
calorie portion of any food. 

One must remember, however, that other things than body fuel are 
necessary in human food. Not all of the necessary body fuel may safely 
be taken from any one of the food groups. Of the 120 100-calorie por- 
tions necessary each day for the average family of five, consisting of 
father, mother, and three children, about 24 should come frofaa vegetables 
and fruits, 36 from milk, eggs, and meat, 30 from cereals and legiunes, 
12 from sugar and sugary foods, and 18 from fats and fatty foods. 

For a family of four adults 36 100-calorie portions might come 
from the cereal group, 24 from milk, eggs, and meat, and 24 from fats 
and fatty foods. This division is, of course, to be used only as a general 
guide. 



How to figure food costs by calories 



lOO-CALOaiE PORTIONS 



price pf.r 
100<;ai.orik 

PORTION 



Vegetables and fruits 



Potatoes 

Onions 

Cabbage 

Com, canned 

Peas, canned 

Tomatoes, canned 

Prunes 

Oranges (8 ounces each) . 
Bananas (5 ounces each) . 



3 per pound 

2 per pound 
1 per pound 

3 per No. 2 can 

do. 
1 per No. 2 can 
1 1 per pound 

10 per dozen 

11 per dozen 



Cents per pound 
do. 
do. 
Cents per No. 2 can 
do. 
do. 
Cents per pound 
Cents per dozen 
do. 



Cents 
do. 
do. 
do. 
do. 
do. 
do. 
do. 
do. 



Milk, eggs, meat 






Milk 


6 per quart 
20 per pound 

9 per dozen 

10 per pound 

7 per pound 

11 per pound 
7 per pound 

12 per pound 


Cents per quart 
Cents per pound 
Cents per dozen 
Cents per pound 

do. 

do. 

do. 

do. 


Cents 


Cheese 


do. 




do. 




do. 




do. 




do. 




do. 


Plate beef 


do. 







Cereals 





16 per pound 
18 per pound 
16 per pound 
12 per pound 
16 per pound 

do. 

do. 

do. 


Cents per pound 
do. 
do. 
do. 
do. 
do. 
do. 
do. 


Cents 




do. 


Wheat flour 


do. 


Bread 


do. 


Rice 


do. 


Macaroni 


do. 
do. 


Beans, dried 


do. 



Sugar and sugary foods 



Sugar, granulated . 

Sugar, lump 

Sugar, maple 

Honey 

Molasses 

Sirup, com 

Candy 



18 per pound 

do. 
13 per pound 
IS per pound 

13 per pound 

14 per pound 
17 per pound 



Cents per pound 
do. 
do. 
do. 
do. 
do. 
do. 



Cents 
do. 
do. 
do. 
do. 
do. 
do. 



Fat and fatty foods 



Butter 

Lard 

Vegctiible oils . 

Bacon 

Cream 



34 per pound 
41 per pound 

do. 
26 per pound 
9 per pint 



Cents per pound 

do. 

do. 

do. 
Cents per pint 



Cents 
do. 
do. 
do. 
do. 



179 



180 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

SOME HOME CANNING COSTS FOR 1919 

MARION WOODBURY 

The figures given in the accompanying table represent what would 
be the actual cash outlay for the average family doing home canning on 
a small scale. No attempt is made to take labor into account. 

The vegetables were raised on the premises, the fruits were bought at 
local prices. The vegetable garden was a lot 80 by 135 feet — about a 
quarter of an acre. This was owned and tended by three small families 
in partnership, and furnished all their vegetables for table use and 
canning. These included potatoes, onions, shell beans, winter root 
vegetables, and celery. The cost of the garden included plowing, seeds, 
fertilizer, spray materials, and a few small tools. The labor was fur- 
nished by the owners and amounted to about 100 hours for the season. 

In estimating the value of produce, tomatoes, potatoes, beans, and 
peas were priced by the bushel at the time of lowest market price; com 
by the dozen ears; other vegetables by the pound. By comparing the 
total value of the produce obtained with the net cost of the garden, it 
was estimated that the vegetables cost approximately 50 per cent of 
market price. This per cent was used in figuring the cost of the home 
grown materials used in canning. 

The cost of the jars and caps, and other containers was figured at one- 
fifth cost. New rubbers were bought at 3 dozen for 23 cents; paraflSn 
cost 41 cents for 3 pounds. 

The fuel cost is estimated somewhat roughly. One gas burner run- 
ning full was found to cost about one cent per hour. The length of 
time the gas burned was divided by two, as the burners were turned low 
more than half the time. The cost per jar for a given amount of vege- 
tables would be somewhat lower if the entire quantity were canned in 
one day. Often several cookings were made as the surplus from the 
garden became available in small lots. 

Only the time actually employed in preparation and in cleaning up 
was reckoned. As the other work was being done while cooking was 
going on, this time was not counted. 

The market prices of goods are those of a large mail order house. 
Those at a retail store would be 10 to 20 per cent higher. 

The cost of the home canned product, not taking labor into account, 
would average about one-third the market cost. The difference may 
be taken as representing roughly the saving achieved. 



1920] 



HOME CANNING COSTS 



181 



si 



m S 



K 


s 
g 


9 


0« Ov O t^ PC •+ 


t^ 


~5 


f»> 


3 

o 


3 


to 
o 


2 


P 


8 


PO 


0\ ^ -^ r^ — • ro ^ 
O O; to ■* 00 >o o 


o 


■* 


^ 


fo 




« 


o 

fO 



T-1 OO'^-^OOOO 






cs o -^ -^ 



-< O -H 



o" o" CT cr cr cr "Sd 



t; >. S 

-o .Si, ^ 



•2 fo ro 



SQOOQOO Q O O 
OOOOOO O O O 



f*5 '-H OsO'^Tj^QOfOfO 



SB 
8" 



"a 3 



0) « 4) J3 « C 
3 3 3^33 

a a o. — a o- 

a a s s a a 

rt rt rt „ n rj 
£ ii a o £ i! 

M Ul OJ .a Ul 01 

Jd" J4 ji' jT ^ J4 
rt rt rt rt 



O U CJOUUUUH 



f*3 to O 00 



ss 



s s 



(T) O ■<*• f*5 



g o 00 o o 

^ lO 1-1 CN lO 



lO O lO O OO u-> 

es CN lo u^ 00 t^ 



lO fO o o 

lo o o o 



J3 J3 J3 J3 



N q ,^ 

o 3 " 



«2 oi ^3 u5 

Siiiii:t!-aja cr— o-zS o*£ 
^ CO »o fN 00 r-i Tj* 



^ ^ r~ lo 



5 5 

o o 



rt G rt .O 



cu tn U 



to > te'C u .a u . 



3 .Q 3 a 3 D. 



182 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS | April 

FOOD RULES FOR SCHOOL CHILDREN 

Begin the day by drinking a glass of water and drink at least six 
glasses during the day. 

Do not go to school without breakfast. 

Eat regularly three times a day. 

Eat slowly and chew all food well. 

Drink milk every day — four glasses are not too much. 

Eat some breakfast cereal every day. 

Eat some vegetable besides potato every day. 

Eat bread and butter every meal. 

Eat some fruit every day. Spend the pennies for apples instead of 
candy. 

Do not eat candy between meals; eat candy and other sweets only at 
the end of a regular meal. 

Do not drink tea or coffee; it docs the body no good but does do it 
harm. 

Do not eat or touch any food without first washing the hands. 

Do not eat fruit without first washing it. 

Do not eat with a spoon or fork which has been used by any other 
person without first washing it. 

Do not drink from a glass or cup which has been used by another 
person without washing it. 

Do not eat from the same dish with any other person. 

— The Commonhcallh . 



While the modem homemaker is much less a producer than formerly, 
and more a -consumer, it is still true that the home produces wealth. 
The housewife, ha\'ing selected and purchased materials, makes them 
into food, clothing, and shelter for her family. Her skill in thus con- 
verting raw materials into products which the family requires, deter- 
mines the value of the dollar spent for the raw material. In so far as 
she increases the value of the raw material by her manipulation of 
them, is she adding to the resourses of the family. 

Federal Board for Vocational Education. 



EDITORIAL 

The Fund for Constantinople College. The Council of the A. 
H. E. A. at the meeting in Cleveland voted to undertake the raising of 
$6000 to establish for three years a chair of Home Economics in the 
American College for Girls in Constantinople, and to send a teacher there 
from America. 

The needs of the college have been stated in a former issue of the 
JotTRNAL. Miss Jenkins' story (in the March number) showing what 
one graduate accomplished ought to make us see the wonderful opportun- 
ity to reach out into many homes and into the very kind of homes that 
most need help. 

The A. H. E. A. as an association has had few opportunities to raise 
money with its only purpose the service of others, though ser-vice is of 
course the primary reason for the very existence of the Association. 

Professor Abby Marlatt of the University of Wisconsin has been made 
general chairman of the Committee for raising this fund. Sectional 
chairmen have been appointed to aid her. 

Let us all take hold with a will, so that at the annual meeting the 
money may be in hand. 

The Board of Trustees of the Constantinople College have asked 
that the Association present the names of three candidates from 
among whom the appointee may be selected, and has indicated the 
following basis of qualification: "the appointee should be a mature 
woman, at least 35 years of age, an expert in her work; she should 
be adaptable to foreign conditions and broad minded in building up 
what she finds in the East rather than imposing .American custom. 
She should have organizing as well as teaching ability as it would be 
her place to build up a new department, and she should also be able 
to correlate the courses that she already finds in the College with her 
department. She should be capable of a personal interest in her 
students and also of a broad vision of the work." 

Those who are interested in considering the Constantinople position 
are asked to communicate with the Chairman of the International 
Committee of the American Home Economics Association, Dr. H. R. 
Andrews, Teachers College, New York City. 

183 



184 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [April 

Home Economics Abroad. The International Committee on the 
Teaching of lioine FAcjiiuTuics calls the attention of all teachers of home 
economics to the opi)ortunity atTorded /\mcrican teachers to advance 
the cause of home economics in other countries by bringing the Amer- 
ican Home Economics Movement to the attention of foreign students 
attending American institutions of higher learning, and also to the 
opportunity for meeting representatives of foreign school systems who 
occasionally Nisit American institutions. It is suggested that every 
home economics department in a college or normal school, which has 
foreign students in attendance, arrange early in the second half year 
for a home economics reception to which all foreign students in attend- 
ance at the institution wll be in\-ited. An explanation of the plans 
and purposes of home economics teaching in American schools might 
be placed before the foreign students at such a time. Some form of 
social entertainment will as a matter of course be made part of such an 
occasion. In this way education for the home can be promoted in var- 
ious countries through the interest dceloped in foreign students attend- 
ing American institutions. Foreign men students as well as women 
should be inx-ited to such a gathering. The Y. W. C. A. organization 
in the institution \vill often be interested to cooperate with the Home 
Economics Department in such an undertaking. 

Among the foreign \-isitors who have recently come to America to make 
inquiry regarding the teaching of home economics in American schools 
are Professor Munda Bernardi of Rome, Italy, and Miss Hilda Kissler of 
Beme, Switzerland. Both of these teachers \isited the Home Eco- 
nomics Di\-ision of the United States Bureau of Education, Washington, 
D. C, and schools in various parts of the countrj*. 

Mrs. CaMn of the Bureau of Education reports also that Senora 
Elisa Zegers de Fernandez of Santiago, Chili, has been recently making 
inquiry regarding the teaching of home economics in American schools. 
Senora de Fernandez reports that home economics was established in 
Santiago in 1907 under a Swedish teacher. At first the work was for 
only one year, but the course was increased until there was finally a 
three years' course in teacher training leading to the title of professor, 
and including not only cooking, garment making, and child care, but 
also the history of education, psychology', pedagog}-, ci\ics, poUtical 
science, and other subjects. 



1920] EDITORIAL 185 

Rancidity of Fat. Some recent reports on fat decomposition add 
considerably to our knowledge concerning the substances present in 
rancid fats and the conditions which make for rancidity. 

Olive Oil. Holland and others' stored a number of portions of olive 
oil for six years under varying conditions. At the end of that period 
they found that the sample to which air, light, and moisture had been 
admitted showed the greatest increase in acidity, going from 2 per cent 
in the original to over 10 per cent in the final analysis, an increase of some- 
thing over 400 per cent. When any one of these factors was omitted 
there was but slight increase in acidity. When all three — air, hght, 
and moisture — were excluded, the acidity actually decreased. Oxida- 
tion was greatest in the presence of air and hght as was shown by the 
increase in the saponification number and decrease in iodine number. 
In the absence of air and Hght oxidation was practically nil. 

The changes were sufiiciently great to give fat a rancid taste and odor 
at the end of two years. 

Corn meal. Those of us who struggled with spoiled corn meal during 
the wheat saving period will be interested in the work of Rabak.- He in- 
oculated corn meal with mold and examined the ether extract of this 
moldy corn at intervals during a ninety-day period. A profound de- 
composition of the fat molecule took place. The ether extract decreased 
from 5.58 per cent in the fresh corn to 2.02 per cent in the thoroughly 
moldy sample. The oil itself increased greatly in free acid content, going 
from an acid value of 13.6 to 72.1. At the same time the general oxida- 
tion products rose steadily, for the iodine value dropped, and the acetyl 
value rose. 

Another evidence of the profound changes in the corn oil was the 
great increase in the per cent of non-fatty (unsaponifiable) matter, some- 
thing over 500 per cent in fact. Thus hydrolysis, oxidation, and general 
decomposition seem to have taken place. 

The precise nature of all of these fat decomposition products is not 
known; consequently it is not possible to state just which of them di- 
rectly give the rancid taste and odor. Since few, if any, of the glycer- 
ides of the bad tasting fatty acids are found in oUve and corn oil, the acids 
formed by hydrolysis are not here primarily responsible for rancidity. 
The condition must then be essentially due to oxidation products of one 
kind or another, probably to aldehydes, ketones, and hydrocarbons, for 
many of these may be of an unpleasant nature. 

' Holland, Reed and Buckley: Jour. Agr. Research, 13, 353, 1918. 
• Frank Rabak: Jour. Indus, and Engin. Cliem., 12, 46, 1920. 



186 THE JOURNAL OF HOUE ECONOMICS [April 

Allliougli these investigations leave much to be learned about the sub- 
stances present in a rancid fat, they do alTord definite information re- 
garding proper storage conditions. Judging from these results it seems 
safe to assume that moisture-free fats kept in the dark away from air 
will keep for an indelinite period. 

Acid-Base Balance and Disease. A prolonged diet on acid form- 
ing food has recently been suggested as another possible cause for lower- 
ing the resistance of the body to disease. Some foods — meat and 
cereals — have an acid residue, while others — fruit, vegetables, and milk — 
have a basic one, and a diet having an acid-base balance has been consid- 
ered to be the most desirable though there has not been much proof of 
this. 

A dietary study of thirty-one of the Army Camps showed an excess 
of acid forming food in the mess. In contrast to this diet of the well 
soldier, the patients of a certain army hospital received base forming 
rations on six out of seven days. The dietaries of the base hospitals 
at different camps were found to be consistently basic in character. " Is 
this alkaline reaction of dietaries of the sick a mere coincidence, or has a 
process of selection hit upon the seeming fact that neutral or base form- 
ing diets arc best suited to the needs of convalescents?" 

To mvestigate this problem Blatherwick made a study' of the bills of 
fare of certain organizations at Camp Wheeler covering a period of two 
months when there were numerous cases of measles, mumps, influenza, 
and pneumonia. The diet had been changed from one pound of meat 
and one of potatoes per man per day, to one pound of meat, one-fourth 
pound of potato, and rice or hominy, in other words to a more acid t)pe. 
The results of the investigation showed a rough but unmistakable paral- 
lelism between the amount of meat and the number of cases of sickness. 
An increase of meat seemed to be followed by an increase of sickness. 
Of course the figures do not permit definite conclusions, but suggest that 
a continued use of a diet of acid forming foods may lead to a greater 
susceptibility to disease. 

How Long Does it Take to Print a Journal? There seems to be 
some misunderstanding on the part of the contributors to the JotJRNAL 
in regard to the time necessary to make up a magazine and put it through 
the press. The last day of March, for example, a note comes into the 

» Blatherwick, N. R., Atner. Jour. Physiol., 49, 567, 1919. 



1920] OPEN FORUM 187 

office with the urgent request that accompanying material appear in the 
April number. The material for the April number should be in the 
hands of the printer by February 28. It is possible to make a few minor 
additions to page proof as late as the middle of March, but if much ma- 
terial is added it may mean a second page proof, and is sure to delay 
the issue of the Journai.. There are enough unavoidable delays without 
adding unnecessary ones. 

Many of the magazines are "made up," in great part, six months in 
advance. We are making a very reasonable request when we ask that 
we shall receive material five weeks before the date of issue, and as soon 
as we can surmount the many diiTiculties with which all publications have 
had to contend in the last years we hope the Journal will be ready for 
distribution on the first of each month. 



THE OPEN FORUM 

A Plea for the Teacher. — I should like to make a suggestion. 
Thousands of home economics teachers are in small localities where 
they have little opportunity to talk over their work with other teach- 
ers. It would be a great help if a page in the Journal of Home 
Economics were given over to discussion of the every day problems 
which grammar and high school home economics teachers meet in 
planning their courses and managing their classes. We are so apt to 
get into ruts and follow the course of least resistance, — to fail to keep 
up with progress, and let our work become too narrow in scope. 

The chance to keep in closer touch with what other teachers are 
doing, and to submit to others for discussion the problems we find 
difficult to solve would awaken us and inspire us to do better work 
and more work. 

Is there not a place for such a department to appear regularly in the 
Journal of Home Economics? 

Some of my problems may suggest the needs of other elementary 
teachers. I should like very much to hear how others are meeting these. 

How should school work be connected with the home? 

How should meal service be carried out? 

How much work should be given in food values and meal planning, 
and what is the best way to teach it? 

What work should be given in textiles? 



188 THE JOURNAL OF HOUE ECONOMICS [April 

When each pupil has a lesson in domestic science only once a week 
(2 hour period) through the three grades (6th, 7th and 8th) is it best to 
alternate the work in cooking and sewing each week or concentrate first 
on one and then on the other? 

How much work should girls accomplish in sewing in this time? 

Is it best to attempt the making of a simple dress in the eighth grade 
with such a small amount of time, and large classes (averaging 20). 

In the grades is it best to give children their recipes and other informa- 
tion through text books, note books, or printed sheets? If through 
text books, what ones are best to use? 

In my classes it seems best to continue some hand sewing after intro- 
ducing machine work. How can the teacher best explain to the pupil 
that this hand work is not a waste of time? 

Ren.a. Gray. 

A Practical Application of Food Study. As a partial answer to 
the question of how work in foods may be related to the home con- 
ditions of the student, a class of 27 Juniors in Elementary Dietetics in 
the University of West Virginia kept the amounts and cost of food for 
a week during the Christmas holidays, following Caroline Hunt's outline. 

The food costs were found to be about two to two and one-half cents 
per 100 calories, ranging from 66 to 85 cents per 3300 calories. These 
results were compared with the market Ust given by Miss Nesbitt in the 
pamphlet "Dependent Families in Chicago." According to her figures 
im April, 1919, a minimum cost for the "standard" man was 43 cents. 
Those same foods in Morgantown on January, 1920, cost 60 cents. 

It is interesting to know that some of the poorest students in the class 
reported the greatest influence on the family food habits as a result of 
the study. 

Some of the comments as to the students' estimation of the value of 
the study of the week's market list may be of interest. 

"My mother has known others to have made similar studies but she 
has never before had opportunity to know how it was done. She wants 
me to practice next summer the things that I have learned in this course. 
Although mother is interested, when she is very hurried she does not pay 
much attention to varieties." 

"My family thought this study the most practical thing that I have 
done since I have been in West Virginia University. As a result my 
mother is now making every effort to conform to the standards that I 
have explained to her, and our market basket is improving rapidly." 



1920] OPEN FORUM 189 

"My family thought at first that it was a joke and did not think it 
was very practical. Mother did not see the point of so much weighing 
and figuring until I showed her the results that I obtained. WTien I 
told her that we used too much fat and not enough cereals and milk and 
explained to her why we should use more milk and milk products and less 
meat and less fat she became interested and decided that she would 
make a few changes. She has reduced the fats and sugar. Since the 
hoUdays we had had illness in the family and the doctor confirmed my 
statement of more milk and cereals and less meat; so mother says from 
now on she wtU do the best she can to keep up the standard and that I 
am to take charge of it this summer." 

"Mother helped me with my study. Father was not much concerned 
about it but my brother did not like it at all. He only wants to eat meat 
and potatoes and does not care for fruit, detests milk and eggs, and cares 
very little for lettuce or cabbage and fresh vegetables. Now the family 
have to take what mother and I plan and as we prepare Just enough at 
each time for that meal and as brother does not care to eat bread between 
meals he is getting so that he is looking forward to each meal and eats 
what is put before him." 

"My family was shocked beyond expression to find that they spent 
so much money on foods. We have decided that running a monthly bill 
is too expensive and wiU pay cash for everj'thing we buy and buy where 
we please. My family thought at first that the study was foolish. I 
told them that it was to see if the money for foods was evenly distributed 
among the different kinds. They found that it was not. Now we are 
keeping strict accoimt of everything spent for the month." 

"M}' family was quite interested in this study especially mother who 
was interested in the problem and has always said that her family use 
too much meat but she did not know just how much. My family never 
considered the cost since a great deal of the supplies were raised at home 
and they forgot that the cost was there just the same. Mother is using 
more milk instead of selling it at ten cents a quart and uses meat once a 
day instead of three times." 

The girls in one of the fraternity houses said, "It is atTecting what we 
are doing now by making us use more milk and less meat, more vege- 
tables and less fat. The study has also interested all the girls at the 
house in the study of foods." 

Rachel H. Col^s'Ell, 
University of West Virginia. 



190 THE JOURNAL OF HO&IE ECONOMICS (April 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 

PERIODICAL LITERATURE 

BOTUUSU 

Arch. Int. Med.: 

Uickson: Vol. 22, p. 483, 1918; Vol. 24, p. 581, Dec. IS, 1919. 
Colo. Med.: 

Curfman: Vol. 15, p. 35, Feb. 1917. 
Journal American Medical ;\ssocialion: 

Dickson, K. C: Botulism, an Kxpcrimcntal Study; A Prelirainar)' Report, Vol. 65, p. 
492, Aug. 7, 1915; Botulism: The Danger of Poisoning from Vegetables Canned by 
the Cold-Pack Method, Vol. 69, p. 966, Sept. 22, 1917. 
Dickson, E. C. and Burke, Georgiana S.: Botulism: A Method of Isolating Bacillus 

Botulinus from Infected Materials, Vol. 71, p. 516, Aug. 17, 1918. 
Burke, Georgiana S.: Effect of Heat on the Spores of Bacillus Botulinus, Vol. 72, pp. 

88-92, Jan. 11, 1919. 
Thorn, Chas., Edmondson, Ruth B., and Giltner, L. T.: Botulism from Canned Aspara- 
gus, Vol. 73, Xo. 12, pp. 907-912, Sept. 20, 1919. 
Correspondence, p. 1078, Oct. 4, 1919; Dec. 6. 1919. 
Editorial, Dec. 13, 1919; Dec. 20, 1919. 

Jennings, Haass and Jennings: Investigation of Detroit Outbreak, Vol. 74, p. 77, Jan. 
10, 1920. 
Journal Bacteriology: 

Burke: Occurrence of B. botulinus in Nature, Sept. 1919. 

Graham, R., and Brueckner, A. L.: Studies in Forage Poisoning: The Relation of B. 
Botulinus to Forage Poisoning or Cerebrospinal Meninptis in Horses, 4: 1, 1919. 
Journal Amer. Med. Sci. : 

McCaskey: Vol. 158, p. 57, July, 1919. 
Journal Medical Research: 

Weinzirl, John: The Bacteriology of Canned Foods, University of Washington, Vol. 39, 

No. 3, pp. 408^10, January, 1919. 
Cheyney: Vol. 40, 177, July, 1919. 
Nevins, Mar>': A study of Cheese Canning, Three Fatal Cases of Botulism, read in abstract 

before Conference of .\m. Publ. Health A. Sept. 8, 1915. 
Journal Am. Vet. Med. .Association: 

Buckley, J. S., and Shippen, L. P.: Preliminarj- Report on the Relation of Anaerobic 
Organisms to Forage Poisoning, \'ol. 50, pp. 809-816, 1917. 
Kentucky Agricultural Experiment Station: 

Graham, R., Brueckner, \. L., and Pontius, R. L.: Studies in Forage Poisoning VI. 
Bulletin 208. 
So. California Pract. 

Sheppard: Vol. 22, p. 370, 1907. 
German References: 

Van Ermengem, E.: Der Bacillus botulinus und der botulismus, KoUe, W., and von 
Wassermann, A.: Handbuch der pathogenen Mikro-organismen, Jena. Ed. 2, 4: 
1908, 1912. 
Van Ermengem, E., in Kolle and Wassermann: Handbuch der pathogenen Mikro-orgao- 
ismen, Ed. 1:4,909, 1912. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



The Meeting of the Vocational Home- 
making Education Section of the National 
Society for Vocational Education drew to- 
gether in Chicago, on February 19 and 20, 
a large number of home economics workers. 
The fact tliat this conference was so quickly 
followed by the Home Economics Meeting 
in Cleveland, in connection with the N. E. 
A., undoubtedly stimulated attendance at 
both, and also made it possible to have more 
specialized programs than would have other- 
wise been feasible. 

The first meeting of the section at Chicago, 
held at the La Salle hotel, was so crowded 
that many could not even gain entrance to 
the room. Miss Lord, the chairman of the 
section, presided. The topic. The Effect of 
the Smith Hughes Law on Instruction in 
Home Economics, was discussed by Cora 
Davis, State Supervisor in Illinois, in rela- 
tion to Part Time Schools, and by Louise 
Stanley, University of Missouri, in relation 
to Teacher Training. The report of a com- 
mittee, ^^aude Murchie, State Supervisor 
in California, chairman, introduced the 
question. How Shall We Meet the Require- 
ment of .\ctual E.xperience? and this started 
a vigorous discussion, Miss Pr>'or of Massa- 
chusetts and others outlining short courses 
of training given to those having adequate 
experience, with the best of results as far as 
success in teaching is concerned. 

The meeting Friday morning was held in 
FuUerton Hall, at the Art Institute, with 
Miss Loomis of the University of Nebraska 
in the chair. Mrs. Woolman at the begin- 
ning of the meeting presented Iicr plans as 
Director of the Home Service of the Com- 
munity Moving Picture Company for whom 
she is preparing home economics films. 

The topic of the morning was the Home 
Project in Vocational Homemaking. Louisa 
I. Pryor, Agent, Mass. State Board of Edu- 



cation, instead of presenting a formal re- 
port from her special committee, spent the 
hour allotted to her in making her audience 
give experiences from actual work. Re- 
ports of projects from all parts of the coun- 
try were given, many of them stimulating 
further questions and some of them receiv- 
ing favorable or unfavorable comment. 

Friday evening many of the visitors at- 
tended the dinner and meeting of the Chicago 
Chemical Society at which Ruth O'Brien 
of Ames, Mrs. Woolman, and Miss Birdseye 
spoke on the present textile situation. Other 
home economics people attended a special 
meeting for further discussion of problems. 
The general sessions of the National 
Society and the Vocational Education .\sso- 
ciation of the Middle West, who were hold- 
ing this meeting in common, held much of 
interest for the home economics teacher. 
Such topics as Women in Industr>', Voca- 
tional Education through High Schools or 
Separate Schools, The Public and the Con- 
sumer, and many others, made the meeting 
a notable one. 

The New England Home Economics 
Association planned its program for the 
year with the special plan of emphasizing 
thrift and showing how home economics is 
related thereto. The editor of the Journal 
was present at the meeting on Januar>' 17. 
After an address by the representative of the 
Department of Justice, three groups were 
formed; tlie home makers, with .\ntoinette 
Roof as chairman; the social workers, under 
the leadership of Lucy Gillett; and the teach- 
ers, with Elizabeth Jenkins as chairman. 
The topics discussed were: How can home 
makers contribute to the effectiveness of the 
teaching of home economics? How does the 
home economics social worker help in solv- 
ing home problems? In what ways can the 
191 



192 



THE JOURNAL OF HOilE ECONOMICS 



[April 



teachers of home economics reach the home 
makers of their communities? This plan of 
dividing into sections after the general 
meeting has proved verj- successful. 

On I'ebruary 14, I-'ri-derick Snyder, who 
was Chief of Division of the Coordination 
of Purchase of the U. S. I"ood Administra- 
tion, spoke on I'undamental ICconomics as 
Applied to Present Day Market I'roblcms, 
and Amy Blanchard, Sujiervisor and In- 
structor of I'^mployces, in the store of Almy, 
Bigclow and Washburn, Salem, gave a talk 
on Practical Points in the Selection of Tex- 
tiles and Clothing. At later meetings Ways 
of Meeting the Shortage in Household Ser- 
vice is to be discussed, and Systematic Sav- 
ings and Methods of Investments. 

The School of Home Economics at 
Chautauqua, N'cw York, is offering this 
summer a course in e.icperimental cooker>' 
under the charge of Elizabeth W. Miller, 
formerly of the University of Chicago and 
now of Iowa State College. She is at pres- 
ent on leave of absence and is the Ellen H. 
Richards fellow at the University of Chicago. 
Miss Miller has contributed to the Journal 
from time to time. The course will be open 
only to graduate or advanced students, and 
will be accepted for college credit. 

Mrs. Norton and Miss Barrows will have 
charge of the school as in former years, 
and are plaiming a Home Information 
Bureau in addition to various new courses. 



The Gift for Home Economics Fellow- 
ships at the University of Chicago has been 
renewed for next year. Two fellowships of 
S300 each will be awarded. The candidates 
must be graduates of an institution of high 
standing or must already have done some 
graduate work. This year the fellowships 
were limited to workers in nutrition but 
next year they will be awarded to the strong- 
est applicants in any lines of home econom- 
ics. Applications with recommendations 
should be in the hands of the chairman of the 
home economics department or the dean of 
the graduate schools before June 15. 



Notes. The editor of the Journal ex- 
tends her thanks to her former students who 
have lately made her a life memln-r of the 
.\merican Home Economics Association. 
To the recipient, at least, this is a particu- 
larly pleasant renewal of former relation- 
ships. 

The officers of the recently organized New 
York State Home ICconomics .\ssocLitioD 
are: Pres., Laura Sexton, Chazy; V. Pres., 
Ethel Ncwlands, Technical School, Buffalo; 
Secy, and Treas., Edith .\. Sarvcr, 108 
Union St., Schenectady; Councilor, May 
Benedict, Dep't. of Household Arts, Me- 
chanics Institute, Rochester. 

Mrs. Mary Schenck Woolman is spending 
one week of each month in New York directing 
the making of home economics 61ms for the 
Community Motion Picture Bureau. Mrs. 
Woolman asks the cooperation of the Asso- 
ciation in extending this service to as many 
communities as possible. 

Make Your Reservations for Colorado 
Springs. The .Vntlers Hotel is to be the 
headquarters for the meeting of the American 
Home Economics .Association, June 24 to 29. 
The other hotels where reservations are being 
made are the .Acacia and the .Mta Vista. 

The rates arc as follows: 

The Antlers — Single room \»'ithout bath 
$3.00, 2 persons S5.00; double room, 4 per- 
sons $8 00 The same with the bath $5.00, 
$7 00 and $10 00, respectively. 

The .Acacia — Single room without bath 
$2.50, 2 persons S4 00. The same with bath 
$4 00 and $6.00, respectively. 

The .Alta Vista — Single room without bath 
$1.50, 2 persons $2.50. The same with bath, 
$2.00 and $3.50, respectively. 

Rooms acconmiodating three persons and 
rooms with bath between are also available. 

Remember that the meeting of the N. E. 
A. in Salt Lake City follows— July 4 to 10. 
It is hoped that arrangements may be made 
with the railroads to have the reduced rate 
tickets for Salt Lake City on sale a week 
early, allowing a stop over at Colorado 
Springs. 



Vol. XII, No. 5 May, 1920 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in ilomemalcing. Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Kcononiics 

Mbs. Alice P. Norton, Edi/or Keiu iah E. Baldwin, Business Editor 

Editorial Board 
M«s. Mary H. Abel C. F. I-ANCwonTaY Amy Daniels Rltu Wheeler Ethelwyn Miller 

Es-Qffitio Mrmlers—EuN>L N. White Piesident Ameiican Home Economics Association 
Elsie Leonard. Chairman Institution Economics Section 
Katharine Blunt. Chairman Science Section 
Mauie Hunch, Chairman Extension Education Section 
Mabel Trilling, Chairman Textile Section 

Coltaboraton—Tht Oiljcers. Members of the Council, and Advisors 



CONTENTS 

Notes on Early New England Eat.ng .... -. . . George .S. Bryan 193 

Efficient Arrangement in Cooking Laboratories Charlulle A. Morton 201 

Studies in Nutrition 

Value op Feeding Experiments Marguerite Davis 206 

Observations on Vitamine Content of Foods . . . Margtierite Davis and Collaborators 209 
Suggestions for the Teaching op Textiles in Elementary and High Schools 

Florence E. WincheU in cooperation with Meriel WiUard and Charlotte Waite 217 

The Present Status of Misbranding Acts and Other Textile Legislation 221 

Petticoat Lane to Prosperity 223 

Om:cron Nu 224 

For the Homemaker 

'1'he Waste of Natural Gas Rachel Colwdl 225 

Homemade \'ersus READY-^L\DE Ci.othlng Kathe'ine Cranor 230 

Editorial , ^ • 234 

Colorado and the American Home Kconouics .Association .Mki;ting 234 

News from the Field 239 



The Journal or Home Economics is published monthly by the .•Nniciican Home Economics .\ssociation 
$2.00 A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.35.1 CANADIAN $2.20. SINGLE COPIES 25 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. KtmiKoncos slould Lc finl ly Check, Ejpi 
/n;iii<:n I .ni I c<I<^rit^ A!^c^ialicn. C uiurcy I nl<!s n ailed in a ugiMc 

NOTICE. When payment is made by check no receipt will be sent unless requested. 

CHANGE IN ADDRESS. Notice of change in oddress should be sent two weeks before the date of issue on which 
the change is lo lake tBecl. The subscriber's Old Address should be clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCI.VITON 1211 C.\TnEDR.\L St., B,u.timore, Md. 

The Journal op Home Economics is on sale at John Wanamaker's. Philndelrhia; The Old Corner Book Store, Boston; 

A. C. McClurg's, Chicago; Baltimore News Company. Baltimore: Woodward and Lotbrop, Washington 



JDVRSAL OF HOME ECO.\OUICS—An\'HftTI SUM ESTS 



r^REAM OF TARTAR, which is 
derived from grapes, makes the 
highest quality baking powder. 

That is the reason it is used in 



ROYAL 
Baking Powder 



Absolutely Pure 



FIFTY- YEARS PRE-EAIINENT FOR AWAKING 
THE FINEST AND MOST WHOLESOME FOOD 



Royal Contains No y4/um\ 

Leaves No Bitter Taste 



In writing advertisers, please mention Journal of Home Economics 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. XII MAY, 1920 No. 5 

NOTES ON EARLY NEW ENGLAND EATING 

GEORGE S. BRYAN 

During their first winter in America, the founders of New England 
lived on groundnuts, which are not nuts at all, but tubers of the Indian 
potato, or wild bean. Boiled, they are reported to be agreeable and 
nutritious. Tradition is that the Puritans first made the acquaintance 
of Indian com (or maize) by stealing it from the Indians. Certain 
versions assert that they afterward paid something for it. Let us hope 
they did. In any event, they were very soon raising their own. They 
also wisely followed the example of the Indians by using fish, if fish in 
quantity were readily obtainable, as a fertilizer. And, furthermore, 
they learned the Nirtues of "nocake." The term "nocake" was a cor- 
ruption of the Massachuset word noohkik (nokchick being the closely 
similar Narraganset form). Nocake was made of selected Indian com 
parched in hot ashes, then well sifted and thoroughly pulverized. When 
needed, it was mixed with cold water and drunk. The early Virginians 
knew it as "rockahomonie." 

We have upon our library shelves a learned-looking volume on human 
foods and their nutritive value; this says nothing whatever about no- 
cake. In fact, the author, though he writes emditely of protein, gliadin, 
and phosphoric anhydride, dismisses Indian com with a few words, 
saying that for a balanced ration it must be combined with other things. 
However that may be from the \'iewpoint of the dietetic chemist, the 
truth is that parched and pulverized maize was the sole food of Indian 
runners as they dog-trotted day after day through the forest; it was the 
chief dependence of the Indian at other times, in country where game 
was scarce or where he thought it dangerous to hunt; it sustained such 

193 



194 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

pioneers as Daniel Boone. Simon Kenton, and Davy Crockett in their 
emergencies; it was a mainstay of the "Two Captains," Lewis and 
Clark, on eight thousand miles of journey from the Mississippi to the 
Pacific; it has been relied on, time out of mind, by desert wanderers in 
Mexico and other countries of Latin-America. It was praised by such 
men as Roger Williams and Colonel William Hyrd (who called it 
"Sprightful Hread"); and in modern times, T. S. Van Dyke, an out- 
doors expert of long and varied experience, has said of it: "It is the 
only form in which you can carry an equal weight and bulk of nutri- 
ment on which alone one can, if necessary, live continuously for weeks, 
and even months, without any disorder of stomach or bowels." Horace 
Kephart, an authority in "wildcraft," says, "I often carry a small bag 
of this parched meal when mountaineering." 

Nocake (call it by any other name — rockahominy, cold flour, or 
pinole — it is just as good) was the rudiment with which New England 
folk began the study of preparing foods from Indian com. That Indian 
corn and its associate, the pumpkin, played no small part in the morn- 
ing of New England's history, may be seen from this allusion in Hins- 
dale's "Old Northwest:" "After describing the American method of 
tilling the corn and the pumpkin, by which two crops are produced on 
the same land in one year, while the girdled trees are still standing, 
Professor Shaler remarks: 'It is hardly too much to say that, but for 
these American plants and the American method of tilling them, it 
would have been decidedly more difficult to have fixed the early colonies 
on this shore.' " Indian corn and pumpkin were gastronomically united 
in primitive New England johnnj' cake, the unsweetened com meal being 
mixed with a paste of mashed pumpkin that enriched it in both flavor 
and color. 

Time would fail us to tell of all the other ingenious and gustable 
dishes made froin Indian com by those New England pioneers. There 
was corn bread, mixed with milk and eggs. There were com fritters — 
fried batter cakes of grated sweet maize, with eggs and milk added. 
There was "ryaninjun," compounded of rye flour, com meal, milk, 
water, and yeast; raised by the fire and baked in the brick oven. There 
was the pudding inseparable from the original New England "boiled 
dinner." And— most famous of all — there was hasty pudding, which 
Joel Barlow took as emblematic of the pristine simplicity that still 
marked his home region, and which he celebrated in a mock-heroic 
poem whose quiet humor remains vital. "It is interesting," observed 



1920] EARLY NEW ENGLAND EATING 195 

one commentator, "to see what a poetic product he could make out of 
such a subject as 'mush' " . . . . (for "mush" and "suppawn" 
were other and even less euphonious terms for the same viand). 

The basis of the hasty pudding of New England was a batter made 
by stirring com meal into boiling water and cooking it until it attained 
the proper "body." Barlow's authoritative words are: 

"In boiling water stir the yellow flour: 
The yellow flour, bestrew'd and stirr'd with haste, 
Swells in the flood and thickens to a paste, 
Then puffs and wallops, rises to the brim. 
Drinks the dry knobs that on the surface swim; 
The knobs at last the busy ladle breaks. 
And the whole mass its true consistence takes." 

In eating hasty pudding, Barlow tells us, 

"Some with molasses line the luscious treat, 
And mix, like bards, the useful with the sweet." 

For himself, he preferred to eat it with milk; plenty of the milk being 
first placed in a bowl, and the pudding then being dropped in until 
"the soft island looms above the brink." Sirup, sugar, or butter might 
also be used as accompaniments; and what was left of the pudding could 
later be fried. A note to Barlow's poem contains the following warn- 
ing: "In eating, beware of the lurking heat that lies deep in the mass; 
dip your spoon gently, take shallow dips, and cool it by degrees. It is 
sometimes necessary to blow. This is indicated by certain signs which 
every experienced feeder knows." 

Scholars have held that the pumpkin was known in England as early 
as 1570, having been introduced from the East. Probably, therefore, 
at least some of the early New England colonists had grown it or seen 
it grown, in a small way, in cottage gardens. It is supposed, however, 
to have been indigenous to North America; and its field cultivation 
with maize is thought to have been adopted from Indian practice. The 
pumpkin, besides being fodder for cattle and hogs, was no small item of 
old-time Yankee diet. In fact, an early rhymester, cataloguing "New 
England's annoyances," humorously declares, 

"We have pumpkins at morning and pumpkins at noon; 
If it was not for pumpkins we should be undone." 



1% THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

Paste of mashed pumpkin was, as we have noted, an added touch to 
true New England johnnycake. Pumpkin was also prepared as an 
independent dish by baking or stewing. It was sometimes kept, ready 
for use, in the form of long strips that had been dried by the fire; or in a 
mass that had first been stewed, then desiccated in the brick oven. 
Zealous spirits even got a poor kind of sirup out of it. The noblest 
product manufactured from the pumpkin was, of course, the pumpkin 
pie, sung by Whittier and "to every Yankee dear." 

Beans were liberally grown and were often on the table. They were 
stewed, baked, or made into porridge. Genuine New England baked 
beans, it may be said here, have nothing in common with the pallid, 
liquescent messes frequently served today under that name, and most 
flagrantly in city restaurants. Bean porridge was a thick, rich soup, 
seasoned with fried pork for more rarely with beef bones), pepper-pods, 
and salt. The beans were first softened by being soaked overnight in 
cold water; and after the other ingredients had been added, the porridge 
was fabricated by long, slow boiling. It could be "warmed over" 
indefinitely. 

"Succotash" was as near as the early New Englanders could get to 
msickquatash, which was Narraganset for boiled com-and-beans. Be- 
nevolently assimilated, like so much else, from the Indian aborigines, 
this mixture in its primary' fashion was a kind of porridge made with 
bush beans and maize. These might be either fresh or dried. An 
author's footnote in "The Last of the Mohicans" shows that Cooper 
understood the dish — as prepared by Indians, at any rate — to be "com- 
posed of cracked com and beans." The New England cook usually 
added a piece of pork; for nearly all of a Yankee pig save the squeal 
was in some way utilized. 

In earliest New England, potatoes commonly were grown in gardens 
only, and did not appear in their own right as a leading item of every- 
day fare. Gradually, however, they came to be raised in quantity as a 
field crop. They were, practically from the beginning, an element of 
the "boiled dinner," which further included a large piece of salted beef, 
a cut of pork, the "pudding," and such vegetables of the domestic stock 
as beets, cabbages, carrots, and turnips. The pudding was a thin bat- 
ter of corn meal and fresh milk, encased in a linen bag. WTien the 
water had reached the boiling point, the bag was suspended within the 
pot. The cooked pudding was eaten -with cream (or sometimes with 
maple sugar and cream), thus answering the purpose of a dessert. It 



1920] EARLY NEW ENGLAND EATING 197 

would seem that the boiled dinner was almost as hardy a perennial as 
the boarding house turkey of modem jokesmiths. Having reappeared 
cold at supper (with, let us say, bread of some kind and in season a 
salad of chopped mustard leaves), it furnished the hash of next day's 
breakfast, and endured for a second dinner, refreshed with the pot broth 
and, if necessary, reinforced with a few beans. 

Rye, wheat, and buckwheat were all extensively grown in early New 
England, and flour made from them was utilized in breadstuffs. In 
this connection it may be pointed out that not all of the early baking 
was in the comparatively familiar brick oven beside the kitchen fire- 
place. Either a "bake kettle" or a "tin kitchen" might be used. The 
bake kettle was a cast-iron pot with legs and a cast-iron lid. It was 
placed over a bed of live coals; the dough was laid on either the greased 
bottom or a baking plate; the lid was then put on and covered with live 
coals, which it was shaped to hold. The bake kettle gave much quicker 
results than the brick oven. Biscuit bread was ordinarily baked in it. 
The tin kitchen was a light utensil — of tin, as the name indicates; 
closed on all sides but that facing the fire; the top being curv'ed or slanted 
downward and the bottom curved or slanted reversely. Whatever was 
to be baked was placed on a shallow pan supported within the tin- 
kitchen, and thus received direct heat from the hearth fire and reflected 
heat from the utensil. The collapsible aluminum reflector used today 
by campers is derived from the old-fashioned tin kitchen and works on 
exactly the same principles. Shortcake — a thin, flat, unsweetened 
cake, "shortened" with butter or lard and served hot, was frequently 
baked in the "spider." In certain rural communities of New England 
an ordinary fr>ing pan is now colloquially known as a spider; but a 
spider is properly a deep, long-handled iron frying pan with legs, usually 
three, so that it may be stood in the coals. 

Flapjacks were prodigious batter cakes cooked in a long-handled pan, 
and obtaining their name from the fact that they were skilfully "flap- 
ped," or turned in air, by being tossed from the pan and caught again. 
Before the wholesale destruction of the sugar maple, the making of 
maple sirup and maple sugar, now peculiar to Vermont, was rather 
common throughout most of New England. Many households annu- 
ally made enough for their own use; and either the sirup or the pulver- 
ized sugar was ajiplied to, or mixed with, a variety of victuals. One or 
the other was almost invariably a "spread" for the toothsome flapjack. 



198 THE JOURNAL OF HOUE ECONOMICS [May 

Wherever skim milk was fairly plentiful cottage cheese was in favor. 
Thus a by-product of the dairy was utilized for the making of a pala- 
table, digestible, and nutritious food that lent variety to the bill-of-fare. 
Appreciation of cottage cheese and its possibilities was to a considerable 
extent revived in this country during the Great War through a cam- 
paign directed by the Department of Agriculture. 

After a time, cultivated fruits furnished materials for pics; before 
that, wild bramblcberries were used, as were also wild black cherries 
and even chokecherries, which for puckery taste are equalled by few 
other known things in nature. New Englanders brought the basic 
idea of pie from Old England, but they developed it and embroidered 
upon it with an abnost unlimited ingenuity; and eventually they ex- 
tended the term to "Washington pie," which is nothing more than two 
layers of sponge cake mth pastry cream between them. In other parts 
of the country, a lugubrious visage was ascribed to the typical Yankee, 
the result (it was more or less jestingly said), in part, of Calvinistic 
theology and, in part, of indigestion caused by too much pie. So far as 
the pie is concerned, confirmation of this is perhaps had in the distin- 
guished testimony of the "Autocrat of the Breakfast Table" that after 
an excess of pie he "wrote some sadly desponding poems, and a theo- 
logical essay which took a very melancholy \aew of creation." "When," 
he adds, "I got better I labelled them all 'Pie crust,' and laid them by." 
Yet the "tranquil mirthfulness" of the Sage of Concord throve upon 
breakfast pie. 

The ancient rhymer to whom we have already referred, includes the 
following sarcastic particulars: 

"if barley be wanting to make into malt, 
We must be contented and think it no fault; 
For we can make liquor to sweeten our lips 
Of pumpkins and parsnips and walnut-tree chips." 

Passable substitutes for tea could be found by the early New Eng- 
landers — not only walnut (i.e., hickory) chips, but white cedar (arbor 
vitae) chips, too; sassafras wood and the bark of the root; Oswego tea; 
the tender tips of hemlock branches; and dried leaves of the black 
birch. All these things, and many others, have been used by American 
pioneers. The very first comers to New England were not cofifee 
drinkers; for the use of cofTee did not become common in Old England 
until the middle of the seventeenth century and the first coffee house in 



1920] EARLY NEW ENGLAND EATING 199 

London did not open its doors until 1652. In due course, however, 
Yankee land contributed its share toward placing the per capita con- 
sumption of coffee in the United States at a figure about twelve times 
greater than that for the United Kingdom. Early New Englanders 
could devise substitutes for coffee from wheat, pulverized burnt bread, 
and parched com meal. We have also encountered a reference to the 
use of a certain "evan root," described as "the fleshy root of a low-grow- 
ing plant of which," says the account, "I wish I could give the botanical 
name, as I have no doubt it still grows in uncultivated swamps." "Evan 
root" is undoubtedly a pro\incial corruption of "avens root," the plant 
in question being what the books call water avens (the Geuvi rivale of 
Gray). "The freshly dug roots," the account further says, "were to be 
washed and boiled, and used in place of coffee; it had an aromatic and 
slightly pungent flavor, not much resembling coffee; but with plenty of 
milk and sugar it made a very acceptable drink." 

Wild game was abundant in earlier colonial New England. Moose 
ranged in goodly numbers through the more northerly forests. Deer 
were plentiful in all the woods. So were wild turkeys; their flocks 
averaging, it is said, from twenty to forty members. Henry Oldys, of 
the United States Biological Sur\'ey, has stated that ruffed grouse (the 
New England "partridge") and bobwhites were even more numerous 
than the wild turkeys and "were regarded as too insignificant to spend 
powder on." "In colonial days," he says, "Massachusetts even placed 
a bounty on ruffed grouse to protect crops. The heath hen, or eastern 
prairie chicken, now [1910] confined to Martha's Vineyard and reduced 
in numbers to about 200, furnished an abundant article of diet to the 
colonists in New England and New Netherlands — so abundant, in fact, 
that articles of apprenticeship often specified that apprentices should 
not be compelled to eat its meat oftener than twice weekly. Pigeons 

were innumerable Dressed pigeons were sold in Boston 

for threepence a dozen." 

Adriaen Van der Donck placed the market value of a prime buck in 
New Netherlands in 1653 at not more than SI. 20 in present United 
States currency, and frequently much less than that. It is probably 
safe to assume that very nearly the same quotation would be true for 
New England at the same period. Wildfowl were to be seen in plenty 
in the bays and inlets along New England's coasts, and upon its inland 
waters. Of both salt-water and fresh-water fish an excellent supply was 
to be had. 



200 THE JOURNAL OK IIOMK ECONOMICS l^aV 

All this game and fish made cheap and excellent fare in early New 
F.ngland homes. Biologist Oldys, although granting that the occupa- 
tion of the land by man necessarily resulted in permanent reduction of 
the amount of wild game, asserts with truth: "The recklessness with 
which the early colonists destroyed the game that filled this land to 
overflowing is astonishing, even though such wasteful methods are usual 
in a new country." He also cites unregulated trade in game as another 
factor contributing toward its decrease. As it has decreased (or even 
been exterminated) in all readily accessible places, its market value has 
risen. "From a time," says Oldys. "when bounties were paid for 
ruffed grouse and apprentices appealed from a diet of prairie chicken, 
we have reached the time when ruffed grouse are %vilhin reach only of 
the rich and prairie chickens arc not to be had at any price." He 
might have added that the existing scarcity (or, in many cases, complete 
absence) of native game — which, had it been rightly conserv'ed, would 
now be affording at small cost a welcome and wholesome variety of diet 
— is nothing short of anomalous in New England, in every state of 
which, as statistics show, the acreage of improved farm land has for 
years been steadily diminishing. 

Cattle, sheep, or swine that had been brought to a pioneer commu- 
nity of New England were ordinarily held too precious to be slaughtered 
for food until such time as a further supply of animals had been well 
assured. After that, a "beef critter" would occasionally be slaughtered 
by its owner and shared with the neighbors. Some of the meat was 
very often "corned"- that is, cured with coarse granulated salt. In 
the speech of those times the word "com" was frequently used in the 
sense of a small, hard particle; as of salt, powder, or sand. 

In early New England, mutton, though never so favored as it had 
been in the old English home, was used to a considerable extent. The 
Yankee quickly found, however, that among domestic animals the pig 
furnished meat the most cheaply. Hams, shoulders, and bacon were 
cured by smoking in "smokehouses," where they were hung on hooks 
above a smoldering fire. The smokehouse was commonly an outbuild- 
ing, but might sometimes be a closet or small apartment within the 
dwelling and having a smoke vent opening into a chimney. Salt pork 
was, of course, made by pickling in barrels of strong brine. Sausage 
was manufactured from minced pork, highly seasoned with pepper, 
salt, and sage. Usually it was laid down in pans, covered with a thin 
coating of lard for protection from the air, and cut out in slices to be 



1920] EFFICIENT ARRANGEMENT IN COOKING LABORATORIES 201 

fried. Headcheese (known in Old England as brawn) was composed 
of portions of the head, or of the head and feet, cut up finely, seasoned, 
boiled, and pressed into a mass somewhat like a cheese. Pickled pig's 
feet were esteemed rather a delicacy. In time, certain alien meat prep- 
arations, such as roUiches (which originated among the New Amsterdam 
Dutch) and scrapple (which took its rise among the Pennsylvania Ger- 
mans) became known in parts of New England and were made there. 
Pure food laws were not needed in early New England. Towns had 
not yet begun to grow apace, nor industries to develop and become 
centralized. Life was chiefly agricultural, and the subsistence of each 
farm group was produced almost exclusively upon its particular farm. 
Housewives then required no special guidance as to what was or was not 
safe to use; no list of approved products, such as, a few years since, was 
issued by one New England town. But certainly they did require 
culinary knack; for, past a doubt, in those times good cooking demanded 
greater aptitude and skill than it does today. 



EFFICIENT ARRANGEMENT IN COOKING LABORATORIES 

CHARLOTTE A. MORTON 
Director Home Economics, Slate Normal School, San Jose, California 

It is time that cooking laboratories were made as convenient as the 
modem kitchen. For many generations the housewife worked in an 
unplanned kitchen, with no analysis of processes and no thought of the 
relative position of operations. Often her kitchen was many times 
the necessary size, with storage center, sink, and stove so far distant 
from each other that she walked miles daily in accomplishing even the 
simplest work. Unfortunately, a large majority of these kitchens 
still exist. But under the leadership of those who have applied to their 
kitchens the principles of efficient arrangement, which of necessity are 
in application in any modem factory, women are demanding efficient 
kitchens in the new homes which are being built, and are rearranging 
the old kitchens when possible. 

It is a part of every good home economics course to teach the close 
connection between efficient work and proper relative position of the 



202 THE JOURNAL OF HOU£ ECONOMICS [May 

various processes involved. But, unfortunately, up to the present 
time, much the same conditions have obtained in cooking laboratories 
as those which for so many years made work so hard in most kitchens; 
namely, an arrangement which makes necessary much recrossing of 
steps; waste of space with greater distances to walk; and a relative 
position of operations dilTerent from that advocated in the home. 

The hollow square arrangement has been the one most widely used. 
The advantage of this arrangement is that it places the student in a 
position facing the teacher who, from one position inside the square, can 
see what each member of the class is doing. But the teacher often 
must leave her position inside the square and go outside to help the 
individual student working on such operations as kneading bread; she 
also must go outside to attend parts of the equipment such as the range 
or supply cupboards; or to meet visitors. So that in the course of a 
lesson the teacher has a fatiguing road to travel. The fatigue is greatly 
increased by the fact that to arrive at the dilTerent points needing he; 
attention, she must many times cross the track of students who musr 
also leave their working positions to secure their necessary suppliest 
teacher and student must wait for each other or squeeze past each other 
in narrow passageways, sometimes behind other students whose work is 
interrupted to let them pass. 

Making the laboratory very large decreases this passage difTiculty, 
but increases the number of steps to be taken, and does not afTect the 
recrossing of paths; moreover, this way of overcoming the difficulty 
could not be used in small schools -with limited funds, which often plan 
small laboratories with the hollow square, necessitating a painful amount 
of crowding and hindering of each other's work. Increasing the num- 
ber of openings in the square itself decreases the crossing of paths, but 
increases expense, as it spreads out the class and makes more space 
necessary. Increasing the number of sinks in the room does more than 
anything else to decrease the amount of walking and consequent recross- 
ing of paths; but, even if, as in the best laboratories on this plan, there 
is a sink to every four students, one group is working left handed toward 
the sink in a position which would never be advocated in a well arranged 
kitchen. To make these points clear, drawings have been made (1) of 
the laboratory actually in use in one of the best schools in the country; 
(2) of a projected laboratory which offers suggestions to overcome the 
difficulties shown in (1); and (3) a detail drawing of the working unit 
necessary in the suggested arrangement. 



1920] 



EFFICIENT ARRANGEMENT IN COOKING LABORATORIES 



203 





Hi^h vJtndo'Mi entire leni)lh. 



204 



TIIE JOURNAL OF HOUE ECONOMICS 



[May 




Individual ■Supply Shelf. 



In plate 1 , which shows the hollow square arrangement that in this or 
a similar form is now in use in a majority of the cooking laboratories in 
our schools, note the course of the teacher, which is indicated by a solid 
line, from her various positions, in each of which she must place herself 
at least several times during each lesson. Contrast %vith that her main 
position in plate (2), where it will be seen that she can remain in a clear 
space in a position from which she can more quickly and easily reach 
the various points that will require her attention during the lesson. 
Her course around the room should also be clear after the class has 
obtained supplies and begun work. 

In plate 2, which is merely an arrangement suggested to overcome 
the difiiculties shown in plate 1, it will be seen that no recrossing of 
students need occur. Once, at the beginning of the lesson, the student 
leaves her position to secure suppHes from the table directly behind her 
where monitors have placed them, as is customarj- before the lesson 
commences. Ha\ing obtained these, it will not again be necessary for 
her to leave her own unit; and the space behind her is left free for the 
teacher's passage. The objection might be raised that the expense of 
installing so many sinks is too great; but such an expense would be 
much smaller than that involved in unit kitchens, which are at present 
approved by many teachers. 



1920] EFFICIENT ARRANGEMENT IN COOKING LABORATORIES 205 

Plate 3 is a detail dramng of the unit that may be arranged either as 
a group or individual unit. Note that in this unit the work progresses 
from right to left, with the same relative position of operations as should 
exist in any intelligently planned kitchen. The student obtains her 
supplies at the beginning of the lesson and places them on her individual 
supply shelf, which has the same relation to her sink as the pantry and 
refrigerator should have to a kitchen sink; she reaches into the wall 
cupboard directly in front of her for necessary utensils, a great advan- 
tage over the hollow square arrangement, where she must either pull 
out a drawer, necessitating a move from her working position, often 
using both hands to lift or rearrange the utensils to obtain those she 
wishes; or stoop uncomfortably to obtain them from low cupboards, the 
opening of whose doors again moves her from her working position. 

When her food is ready to cook, she moves to the left and places it 
on her stove, then, while it is cooking, proceeds to clear her shelf and 
wash the dishes which, as the supply shelf has been cleared, have been 
piled there. From towel rods directly over her sink (pushed back 
against the cupboard when not in use), she takes her dish towels and 
cloth, and with plenty of water at hand she washes her dishes, cleanses 
her towels and hangs them over the sink to dry. 

Space may be provided in the cupboard for cans of flour, spices, and 
other individual supplies; and, if desired, there may be an additional 
cupboard beneath the drawers, but this usually will be found unneces- 
sary. The large utensils used by the entire class, or with only one to 
every four or more students, can be placed in large cupboards at the 
side or front of the room. The teacher will not be able to stand in front 
of the individual student in making suggestions. But if this point is 
carefully considered, it must be conceded that it does not outweigh the 
advantages gained by arrangement 2. In fact, there are many labora- 
tories with other than the hollow square arrangement, which already 
have lost the advantage of the face-to-face position — such, for instance, 
as that in which the students work around large square tables, or in 
unit kitchens. Both of these last named arrangements are advocated 
by many teachers; but to the writer neither of them seems to solve the 
difficulties first outlined, namely, those of much walking on the part of 
the teacher, waste of space, and recrossing of paths. 

It is hoped that neither house^vives nor teachers will be bound by 
tradition when better conditions are obtainable which make for econ- 
omy of energy and tinie and consequent better achievement. 



206 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS (May 

STUDIES IN NUTRITION 

From the Home Economics Laboratory of the University of 
Wisconsin 

VALUE OF FEEDING EXPERIMENTS 

MARGUERITE DAVIS 

In nutrition as in other diNisions of science our knowledge is but an 
arrangement of observations. The part that feeding experiments have 
played in assembling these observations is familiar to all. Reaumur, in 
his study of digestion in 1765, was probably the first to use this method 
of investigation. Cholmers Watson in 1906 examined the changes in 
the tissues resulting from a long continued monotonous ration. In 
this country Beaumont's classic experiments in digestion were the first 
great contribution, while the extensive work of McCollum and his co- 
workers and of Osborne and Mendel has been most conspicuous in recent 
years. 

We hope for much from this method in the future. There is first the 
problem of growth. That the change in mass from the egg of micro- 
scopic proportions to the adult is due to the food absorbed is well known. 
It is not so well understood that the changes in structure and composi- 
tion also result from the food. We have conceded that milk was neces- 
sary for babies, but it has not been generally appreciated that food of 
proper quality w-as necessary after infancy. 

Then there is the problem of the maintenance of indi\idual organs. 
A chemical and histological examination reveals much more than records 
of maintenance, growth, and reproduction. In view of the fact that a 
large number of animals should be examined before a conclusion with 
regard to the ration is arrived at, and of the fact that a chemical and 
histological examination requires more time and skilled labor than the 
growth and reproduction records, it seems desirable to have rather 
extensive preliminary observations to ser\-e as a guide for more intensive 
work. 

It is feeding experiments which keep adding to the list of essential 
substances in the ration. Chemical analysis and our common experi- 
ence with food showed the necessity for protein, but the carefully con- 
trolled experiments of Hopkins and Willcock showed the necessity for 
tryptophane. At present our only test for the three \itamines is the 
biological test. 



1920] STUDIES IN NUTRITION 207 

In spite of the progress that has been made there are still many con- 
fusing factors. Clear cut results are the exception rather than the rule. 
An animal may be subnormal and recover without change in the ration, 
or it may be subnormal and not recover when taken off the experiment. 
Frequently the indi\adual variations within a group are greater than the 
variations between groups. 

On the qualitative .side a ration may be unsatisfactory in two respects. 
It may lack some essential or it may contain a toxic substance. An 
essential, like magnesium, is toxic if present in too high a concentration. 
Since foods are complex, it is extremely difficult to obtain a ration which 
is uniform. With a ration which is not uniform it is difficult to deter- 
mine to what factor the unsatisfactory results are due. The chief 
source of variations in the ration is the vitamines. Hess and Unger 
have shown that 10 grams of fresh young carrot contain as much of the 
antiscorbutic vitamine as 35 grams of fresh old carrot. Doubtless 
difTerence in soil causes a difference in \dtamine content. It is well 
establi.shed that the vitamine content of milk is dependent on the ani- 
mal's ration. Aside from the difference in the initial amount, there is 
the destruction due to aging. This destruction is very rapid for the 
antiscorbutic vitamine. Until some rapid method of quantitative 
estimation of vitamine is devised, a ration uniform with respect to the 
antiscorbutic factor is a practical impossibility. Furthermore, there is 
some evidence that both this and the fat soluble \-itamine operate indi- 
rectly in that their absence induces a lowered resistance to infection 
from ordinarily innocuous bacteria. It is therefore a complicated matter 
to obtain accurate measurements of the comparative value of foodstuffs. 

The fact that different animals give different results with the same 
ration has been used as an argument against feeding experiments. On 
the contrary, it is an advantage, for it gives additional information. 
Individual variations among human beings are as great as the different 
requirements of different animals. 

A ration restricted to egg yolk carries the rat through growth and 
reproduction. On the other hand, the addition of egg yolk to the rab- 
bit's ration shows this complete food for the rat to be to.xic for the rabbit. 

We are inclined to believe that many common foodstuffs may be toxic 
to certain animals if fed in sufficient amounts for a sufficient time. 
From what little data we have it seems that different foodstuffs do not 
manifest their toxic effects in the same manner. Therefore it is of inter- 
est to classify the foods with regard to their toxic effects. 



208 THE JOURNAL OF HOUE ECONOMICS [May 

We have mentioned the difficulty of obtaining uniform conditions 
within a single laboratory. When one seeks to compare the results of 
different laboratories, the difficulties are, of course, greater. Again it is 
the vitamines which cause the greatest confusion. This is particularly 
true when cooked or preser\-cd food is the source of \itamine, especially 
of antiscorbutic vitamine. With cooked food it is important to know 
how it was cooked; how long; the state of diWsion; the amount cooked 
at a time; if boiled, the amount of water; if baked, the temperature; 
and the interval between cooking and consumption. The data with 
commercial preserved food is of purely economic value for the condi- 
tions are not known. 

Conflicting statements due to different conditions are bound to cause 
skepticism. Even so, we believe that all honest and careful work is 
good work and will have its place when order succeeds confusion. We 
even consider that it is an advantage to have different conditions in 
different laboratories, for when one comes to doubt the accepted prin- 
ciples a discovery may follow. 

The writer would be very glad if there were a clearing house for data 
in feeding experiments. It would be necessary to have strict regula- 
tions to exclude experiments which were not properly controlled. It 
would seem that by pooling obser\'ations much of the error from con- 
clusions from insufficient e\idence would be eliminated. One reason 
for hasty conclusions is a desire for priority. Under the pooling system 
priority would not be so important as careful and complete experiments. 

It would be a great help to a laboratory which serves the double 
purpose of investigation and instruction to work in connection with 
other laboratories. For investigation the resources of the laboratory 
are more profitable when concentrated on a small problem, except for 
preliminarj' work designed to indicate the relative merit of various small 
problems. For instruction less intensive work is desirable. 



1920] STUDIES IN NUTRITION 209 

OBSERVATIONS ON VITAMINE CONTENT OF FOODS 

MARGUERITE DAVIS AND COLLABORATORS 
INTRODUCTION* 

The experiments reported here are not primarily studies in vitamine 
content. They are long time experiments to determine the effect of 
prolonged feeding of a given amount of a given foodstuff. In the case 
of the guinea-pigs and rabbits, the oats, hay, salt, and water ration to 
which the foodstuff is added is lacking in the antiscorbutic vitamine. 

The deficiency of this ration is reported by Hess and linger,*" and by 
Hart, Steenbock, and Smith.' Therefore, when our animals have ex- 
hibited the typical symptoms of acute scurvy in three weeks, we have 
considered that the added foodstufif did not, in the amount fed, contain 
sufficient vitamine to protect against scurvy. When, on the other 
hand, there is normal growth and reproduction we consider that the 
added foodstufT does contain sufficient vitamine. The intermediate 
conditions are often more difficult to determine. There is, for instance, 
a great difference between canned spinach and boiled onion. With the 
spinach-fed guinea-pigs, those receiving 15 grams daily are in better 
condition than those receiving 10 grams, while those receiving 20 grams 
are in better condition than those receiving 15 grams. On the other 
hand, although boiled onions unquestionably contain the antiscorbutic 
\'itamine, and although 10 grams is unquestionably below the level 
necessary for complete protection, three lots of guinea-pigs on 10 grams, 
15 grams, and 20 grams, respectively, were in equally poor condition 
at the end of 26 days. 

We have more confidence in the beri-beri experiments with the pig- 
eons. So far as we know, acute beri-beri results only from lack of the 
anti-bcri-beri \dtamine. To exclude other factors as far as possible 
we have fed the stock pigeon ration of equal parts corn, kaffir com, 
barley, and split peas. This ration is heated in the autoclave at fifteen 
pounds pressure for 2 J hours. As the birds eat a normal amount, which 
is not the case when they are offered polished rice, and as grit is kept in 
the cages, the changes due to heating must be responsible for the defi- 
ciencies in the ration. When the addition of a fixed amount of a food- 
stuff (daily) prevents or delays the appearance of symptoms of beri-beri, 

* Miss Davis' collaborators are students working under her supervision. 



210 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

we consider the anti-beri-beri vitaminc in the added foodstuff to be 
responsible. A gram of butter fat daily is given the pigeons receiving 
potato, as McCollum, Parsons, and Simmonds" have shown that potato 
lacks the fat soluble \itainine. 
The following notes record the progress to date of the experiments. 

Experiments With Various Foods 

EFFECT of heat OK FOOD 

As stated above, the ordinary pigeon ration of corn, kafEr corn, 
barley, and split peas was heated in the autoclave for 2i hours, at 15 
pounds pressure and fed as the beri-beri producing ration. Since the 
pressure cooker is used in food preparation, it was considered of 
interest to feed a ration which was heated in it. 

The 2 pigeons receiving the ration which had been heated in the 
pressure cooker 2^ hours at 15 pounds pressure developed beri-beri and 
died after 40 and 48 days, respectively. The 2 pigeons receiving the 
ration which had been heated in the pressure cooker 35 minutes at 15 
pounds pressure were in excellent condition after 280 days. 

experiments with carrot 

One pigeon received 2.5 grams of fresh carrot daily. It devel- 
oped beri-beri in 43 days. After it had recovered with yeast, it received 
5 grams of raw carrot for 67 days. Beri-beri again developed and the 
experiment was discontinued. 

One pigeon received 5 grams of carrot canned in the laboratory'. 
After 49 days the canned carrot was increased to 10 grams, because of 
the poor condition of the bird. It gained in weight and was apparently 
normal when, after 75 days on 10 grams, the pigeon was returned to the 
Genetics Department. 

One female guinea-pig one month old received 5 grams of canned 
carrot and 5 grams of fresh cabbage. After 22 days the carrot was 
increased to 10 grams because of loss in weight. She gave birth to 2 
normal young 88 days later. For 50 days she and her young received 
60 grams of canned carrot and 5 grams of fresh cabbage for the three. 
The young grew at the normal rate. WTien 50 days old they received 
10 grams of canned carrot and 5 grams of fresh cabbage each. Thirty- 
four days later the experiment was discontinued. 



1920] STUDIES IN NUTRITION 211 

EXPERIMENTS WITH RAISINS AND WITH GRAPE-JUICE 

Two pigeons received 2 grams of raisins daily. They died after 35 
and 61 days, respectively, with no sign of acute beri-beri. 

Two pigeons received 3 grams of raisins daily. One developed beri- 
beri in 59 days and died. The other received 4 grams of raisins on the 
60th day and continued on this level for 90 days when the raisins were 
increased to 8 grams daily. It died 120 days later after a total of 270 
days on the experiment. 

One pigeon received 3 cc. of commercial grape-juice daily. Beri-beri 
developed in 30 days. The pigeon died. 

One guinea-pig one month old received 3 cc. of the same grape- juice 
daily. Scurvy developed in 22 days. With the same pig, which had 
recovered on cabbage, 4 cc, 6 cc. and 10 cc. of grape-juice proved insuffi- 
cient for protection against scurvy. 

FEEDING EXPERIMENTS WITH MILK POWDER 

Milk varies in its vitamine content. Its antiscorbutic value depends 
on the food of the cow, and is higher when the animals are in the pasture 
than when fed dried food. WTien the milk is first drawn its antiscor- 
butic content is generally high, but decreases rapidly on standing. 
Moreover, the exposure to heat in pasteurization (which is necessary to 
destroy any possible pathogenic bacteria and to make it safe for infant 
consumption) lowers the antiscorbutic value. The ordinary milk sup- 
ply is therefore unreliable, and for this reason milk powders have been 
introduced into infant feeding. 

From recent investigation by Chick and Hume, Hart and Steenbock, 
and Hess and Unger, it is seen that fresh milk given in sufficient quanti- 
ties will protect guinea-pigs against scurvy. Chick and Hume= found 
that partial protection was afforded when each guinea-pig received 
50-100 cc. certified milk, delivered in 24 hours, in addition to a basal 
ration of oats and bran, and that by the addition of 100-150 cc. scurvy 
symptoms were entirely prevented. Hess and Unger' found that only 80 
cc. fresh milk, per indi\'idual per day, was necessary when superimposed 
on a ration of hay, oats, and bran. Hart, Steenbock, and Smith' using 
the same basal ration found that 100 cc. entirely prevented scurvy, 
while 30 cc. prevented the onset of scorbutic symptoms for 18 weeks. 

For a long time it has been conjectured that heated milk was low in 
the antiscorbutic property. Recent experin^ental work has definitely 



212 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

shown that milk, like other foodstuffs, loses its ability to protect against 
scurvy when heated, and the degree to which the antiscorbutic factor 
is destroyed depends on the degree of heat and the time of exposure to it. 

Hart, Stcenbock, and Smith' autoclavecl fresh, whole milk at HO'C. 
for 10 minutes and found that with an ingestion of 47 cc. per day scurvy 
occurred in 7-9 weeks, whereas 30 cc. fresh milk prevented the onset of 
scurvy for 18 weeks. 

In regard to powdered milks, the results of investigators differ. Hart, 
Steenbock, and Smith' accord them little value. Guinea-pigs, given pow- 
dered skimmed milk the equivalent of 40-45 cc. fresh milk, show typical 
scurvy in 5-6 weeks; on 75-90 cc. the onset is prevented for 5-15 weeks. 
Barnes and Hume' show that dried milk, given in amounts equivalent 
to 100-150 cc. fresh milk, was unable to protect against scur\y. Experi- 
ments on monkeys showed that 150-175 cc. fresh milk was necessary to 
protect from scurvy these animals weighing 2-3 kgm., whereas the 
corresponding ration of dried milk freshly manufactured by the Hat- 
maker process is from 250-300 cc. Hume therefore concluded that the 
corresponding amount of dried milk necessary for a guinea-pig would 
be equivalent to 200 -|- cc, an amount too large to be consumed by an 
animal of 300-400 grams weight. Hess and Unger, however, consider 
that little of the antiscorbutic vitamine is lost in the Just-Hatmaker 
process. This statement is confirmed by finding that infantile scurvy 
could be cured by giving dried milk prepared by this method. 

There are difficulties in feeding milk to guinea-pigs. They do not 
like milk, and they do not require a large amount of liquid. Conse- 
quently it is hard to get a guinea-pig to consume enough milk to protect 
against scursy. In feeding powdered milk, this difiiculty has been met 
by mixing the powder into a paste. Some days the entire amount 
given was ingested; other days a small amount was left. It was impos- 
sible to determine the exact amount eaten. 

We have obtained growth and reproduction and the prevention of 
scurvy on 20 grams milk powder prepared by the Hatmaker process. 
This is equivalent to about 150 cc. fresh milk. 

Oats were offered only occasionally, in order that the pigs might eat 
more milk. Hay and salt constituted the basal ration. The fact that 
two generations have been bom on the ration without showing signs of 
scurvy gives e\idence of sufficient antiscorbutic in the diet. The ration 
is too concentrated for guinea-pigs which might account for the fre- 
quency of abortion. In the case of the last twohtters, oats and bran 



1920] STUDIES IN NUTRITION 213 

were added two weeks before parturition. Guinea-pigs on the ration 
seem to thrive, and the only animal of the second generation in turn 
gave birth to three, two of which are living. 

Our data on condensed milk are in accord with the data of other 
investigators. Scorbutic symptoms appeared in 4 weeks on 75 cc. con- 
densed milk. Stecnbock and Smith* obtained scurvy in 30-40 days 
when they fed 36-52 cc. 

Condensed milk supplies little antiscorbutic. Dried milk (Mam- 
mala) can be used as the only source of antiscorbutic in an otherwise 
satisfactory diet. It is wise, however, to use in infant feeding an addi- 
tional food which contains the antiscorbutic factor, such as orange juice. 

FEEDING EXPERIMENTS WITH POTATO 

Vedder and Clark" fed 4 fowls as much polished rice as desired and 
10 grams of raw potato daily. One developed beri-beri in 32 days, 1 in 
38 days, and the other 2 remained well after 63 days when the experi- 
ment was discontinued. They fed the same number of fowls, under the 
same conditions 10 grams of boiled potato. One developed beri-beri 
after 25 days, 1 after 59 days, and the other 2 remained well after 
63 days when the experiment was discontinued. 

We have fed one pigeon on a ration of autoclavcd grain, 1 gram of 
filtered butter fat, grit, and raw potato for 440 days. The filtered 
butter fat was added after 200 days on the experiment. (For amount 
of potato, see table 4.) 

Of 5 other pigeons, one has received raw potato for 343 days, and one 
has received baked potato for 343 days. Another pigeon on baked 
potato developed acute beri-beri after 248 days on the ration and died. 
Of the 2 pigeons on boiled potato, one developed acute beri-beri after 
210 days on the ration. It recovered on yeast and has been back on 
the ration for 94 days. The other pigeon developed acute beri-beri 
after 250 days on the ration. It recovered on yeast and has been back 
on the ration for 90 days. 

These experiments indicate a loss in anti-beri-beri xitamine as a result 
of ordinary methods of cooking. 

Preparation of potato: A small potato was baked daily at a tempera- 
ture of about 300° for 20 minutes. Potato cut in small pieces was 
boiled with skin for 15 minutes. (See table 4.) 



214 



THE JOURNAL OF HOMi: ECONOMICS 



[May 



TABLE I 
Animoli put on ration 



aax 


MDuiu or 

ANIKAU 


•niAL 


wzion 


MDUIEl 

or 

OAT> 


Arr«ox- 

lUATC 
HOKHAI. 
ClOWTI 








InilUI 


Final 




pamt 






(ram 


(ranu 




ptrttnt 




20 


2 males ' 


62 


324 


801 


366 


85 


No scurvy 


63 


333 


740 


366 


85 


Condition apparently good 






66 


225 


722 


326 


50 


After 110 days gave birth to i 
young. One lived — \o. 80. 
After 208 days abortion. 




2 females { 


















67 


241 




326 




Abortion after 96 days and ISO 
days. After 280 days 5 young 
bom — 2 living 



Growth and reproduction is secured on milk powder. 

TABLE 2 
Animals horn on ration 



HII.K 


NDUBER 

or 

ANWALS 


SERIAL 


WZICBT 


NCHBEK 

or 

DAYS 


ATPIOX- 
lUATZ 
NOEllAL 
GROWTH 


lEMAin 






InitiiJ 


Fiul 




grams 

20 


1 


80 


irams 


trams 

680 

247 
245 


214 

27 
27 


per cent 

100 

100 
100 


Bom on ration of No. 66. Growth 
normal. At 214 days gave birth 
to 3 young. 1 died 

Young of No. 67 
Normal growth 



Young bom on ration show normal growth on milk powder. 



TABLE 3 
Third gentralion on ration 



20 



Initial Final 



grams 
208 
178 



APPBOX 
niATE 
NORMAL 

GROWTH 



per cent 
75 

75 



Young of No. 80 

Growth 75 per cent normal. No 
scurvy 

The third generation bom on the ration show no scurvy. Growth is only 75 per cent 
normal. 



1920] 



STUDIES IN NUTRITION 



215 



TABLE 4 
Pigeon data 









WEICBT 


NUMBER 




POTATO DAILY 


NUMBER OP 


SEKIAL 








REMARKS 




ANIMALS 


NUMBER 


Initial 


Final 


DAVS 










grams 


grams 






Row 




11 






67 


Died 


2 grams 


2 pigeons < 


12 






70 


Increased potato to 5 grams. 




2 pigeons I 


12 




255 


140 


Increased potato to 8 grams. 


5 grams 


13 


380 


280 


110 


Increased potato to 8 grams. 


8 grams 


same f 


12 


255 


281 


233 


In progress 




pigeons \ 


13 


280 


264 


233 


In progress 


Baked 














5 grams 


2 pigeons < 


16 


402 


275 


110 


Increased potato to 8 grams. 


17 


455 


315 


no 


Increased potato to 8 grams. 


8 grams 


same f 


16 


275 


250 


138 


Died — acute bcri-beri 


1in*I*fi 


pigeons \ 


17 


315 


228 


233 


In progress 


Douea 

5 grams 


2 pigeons { 


14 


360 


235 


110 


Increased potato to 8 grams 


15 


435 


270 


110 


Increased potato to 8 grams 


8 grams 




14 


235 


208 


140 


Acute beri-beri. Recovered with 
yeast 




same 




262 


246 


90 


Returned to ration. In progress 




pigeons 


15 


270 


195 


89 


Acute beri-beri. Yeast given. 
Off ration for 60 days 








296 


210 


94 


Returned to ration. In progress 


Commercial 














dried 
















/ 


18 


330 


253 


36 


Acute beri-beri. Died 


2 grams 


2 pigeons < 


19 


307 


249 


36 


Increased potato to 4 grams 


4 grams 


1 pigeon 


19 


249 


268 


71 


In progress 



Chick and Rhodes' found that 17 grams of steamed potato gave slight 
protection, and 20 grams gave complete protection against scurvy. 
Givens and Cohen" found that guinea-pigs fed boiled potato equal to 
5 grams raw potato developed scurvy in 28, 25, and 27 days. 

Our experiments indicate that potato can be the sole source of anti- 
scorbutic vitaminc, but we have not determined the amount necessary. 
Four grams of raw and 20 grams of boiled potato arc not sufficient for 
reproduction. For our results with smaller amounts, see table 5. The 
boiled potato was prepared the same way as for pigeons. 



216 



TIIF. JOURNAL OF HOUE ECONOMICS 



[May 



TABLE J 
Ouinta-^f dala 





AICIMAL 


SEUAL 
HUHBU 


wsion 


MiniBEB 

or 

DAVl 






IniUil 


FiMl 










tr»mi 


gramt 






BoUed 
5 grams 
8 grams 


1 guinea-pig 
1 guinea-pig 


18 
18 


410 
S80 


580 
732 


73 
233 


Increased potato to 8 grams 
In progress 


4 grams raw 
and 4 grams 
boiled 


1 guinea-pig* 


19 


665 


787 


240 




Boiled 
8 grams 


1 guinca-pigt 


23 


313 


657 


112 




Boiled 
8 grams 


I guinea-pig} 


24 


369 


503 


99 


Increased potato to 20 grams 
7 days before parturition. 



• Litter of 2 after 81 days on experiment. Young at 34 days given 8 grams boiled potato 
(see Nos. 23 and 24). Second litter of 4 after 214 days experiment. Two died on fifth day. 
Postmortem of young. Gums haeraorrhagic. Lesion and haemorrhage of femur. 

for first litter 6 days before parturition to 34 days after, boiled potato was increased to 
20 grams. For second litter boiled potato was increased to 40 grams for 3 days after 
parturition. 

t Young of No. 19. Growth normal for 70 days, then maintenance. Hind legs stiff 
when 145 days old. 

} Young of No. 19. Litter of 3 when 131 days old. Two young died on fifth day. Ration 
discontinued on fifth day after parturition. Third young died on ninth day. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 

(1) Barnes axd Hvas: Biocliem. Jour., 1919, vol. 13, p. 306 

(2) Chick, Hume and Skelton: Biochem. Jour., 1918, vol. 12, p. 137. 

(3) Chick and Rhodes: Lancet, 1918, 2, p. 736. 

(4) Delf and Hume: Biochem. Jour., 1919, July. 

(5) Funk: Jour. Biol. Chem., 1916, vol. 25, p. 409. 

(6) Gm:NS and" Cohen: Jour. Biol. Chem., 1918, vol. 36, p. 127. 

(7) GivENS and McClucage: Jour. Biol. Chem., 1919, vol. 37, p. 253. 

(8) Hart, Steenbock and Smith: Jour. Biol. Chem., 1919, vol. 38, p. 305. 

(9) Hess and Unger: Jour. Biol. Chem., 1918, vol. 35, p. 473. 

(10) Hess and Unger: Jour. Biol. Chem., 1919, vol. 38, p. 293. 

(11) Hopkins and Chick: Lancet, 1919, July 5. 

(12) McCoLLUM, Simmonds and Parsons: Jour. Biol. Chem., 1918, vol. 36, p. 197. 

(13) Vedder and Clark: Philippine Jour. Sci., series B, vol. 7, p. 6. 



1920] SUGGESTIONS FOR TEACHING TEXTILES 217 

SUGGESTIONS FOR THE TEACHING OF TEXTILES IN 
ELEMENTARY AND HIGH SCHOOLS 

FLORENCE E. WINCHELL 
The Lincoln School of Teachers College, New York City 

IN COOPERATION WITH 

MERIEL WILLARD 

Washington Irving High School, Neu> York City 

AND 

CHARLOTTE WAITE 
Jitlia Richman High School, New York City 

The judgment of textile materials cannot be well taught except in 
connection with the natural use of the fabrics. Much of the knowledge 
can be acquired only through familiarity with cloth of various kinds. 

The specific articles made in any two classes in sewing, garment- 
making, dressmaking, or millinery would not be the same, but would 
be determined by the type of pupil, by the needs of the group, by the 
economic situation, and by the organization of the curriculum. Hence 
the textile study would vary accordingly in the order of presentation 
of subject matter and the method of attack. 

The foregoing statements make it clear that a suggestive course in 
textiles must be outlined in large, clastic units, ready to be adjusted to the 
exigencies of the situation, appealing to the pupil's interests when he 
sees a real need for acquiring the information. 

The judicious use of texts and suitable references strengthens the 
work with pupils of all ages. 

THE ELEMENTARY SCHOOL FOR BOTH BOYS AND GIRLS 

The aim of such a course in the elementary school should be to ac- 
quaint children with the characteristic properties of the four textile 
fibres as found in materials commonly used, to help to a rough identifi- 
cation and a knowledge of their general uses, and to give children a 
knowledge of the raw products and the main processes through which 
the four fibres must pass in preparation for their manufacture into cloth. 

Grades 1, 2 and 3 

In the first three grades the children should learn to roughly identify 
cotton, silk, and wool by choosing their own materials for doll clothes, 



218 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

and by feeling of their own clothing and frequently naming cloth when 
handling it. Knitting such articles as stripes for dolls' afghans or blocks 
for baby blankets out of woolen yarn gives a knowledge of its feel. 

The children may get an understanding of the manufacture of woolen 
cloth through carrying on these processes in the schoolroom. Wool may 
be cut from the pelt, washed, cardtd, dyed, and spun in the fingers. A 
demonstration of spinning on the spinning wheel or, better still, practice 
on the spinning wheel by the children, themselves, may be supplemented 
by pictures of various kinds, making the spinning devices intelligible. 
Understanding of the factory processes may be acquired by the use of 
the reflectoscope, stereoscope, slides, moxing pictures, or \'isits to indus- 
trial exhibitions or factories when possible. 

Weaving of short lengths that can be used for rugs, mats, or bags 
gives a knowledge of cloth structure which makes it easy for children 
to understand how striped, checked, and plaid materials are made and 
how different weights of warp and woof will affect the material. 

Handling of materials in cutting and se%ving makes its own impres- 
sions. Frequent references to warp, woof, and selvedge are essential 
to make the children familiar with them. 

Knowing how to knit gives a foundation for judging of knitted mate- 
rials and a background for stockinet darning in the upper grades. 

Grades 4, 5 and 6 

The children of these grades should be given freedom in selecting 
materials for their own sewing problems whenever possible. Judgment 
will thus be developed naturally. 

A permanent school exhibit of common textile fabrics can be made 
by one or more classes contributing samples, mounting and labeling 
them with the name of the fabric and the price per yard (if made by 
older children). These should be classified according to the fibre from 
which they are made and further grouped as to uses. 

Weaving on looms made by the children themselves to carry cotton 
warp of light weight makes it possible for children to work out decorative 
weaves, such as stripes or checks. By the use of the warp and cloth 
beams long pieces like hat bands, sleeve bands of school colors, or belts 
may be woven. A class problem on the Colonial loom gives each child 
an opportunity of imagining himself in the home factory of the period. 
After such experiences the girl or boy can understand the de\ices used 
in the modem loom. Pictures of various kinds, textile exhibits, and 



1920] SUGGESTIONS FOR TEACHING TEXTILES 219 

visits to factories are all helpful. A collection of samples of materials 
of fancy weaves will be interesting for the children to analyze to deter- 
mine how designs are effected. 

A study of comparative strengths of materials and the methods for 
testing warp and woof with thumb pressure gives a basis for selection of 
materials suited to various uses. 

A study of the production of cotton, flax, and silk should be inserted 
wherever such study wiU best vitalize geography, history, and other 
subjects. Reference reading, pictures of various kinds, and industrial 
exhibits should be freely used to make the subject most interesting. 

Distinction between cotton and linen should be given with a discus- 
sion of their adaptability to uses ; cotton as a legitimate and illegitimate 
substitute for linen should also be discussed. 

JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOL GIRLS 

The aims of the work for the junior high school girls would include 
the two aims given for the elementary school, with the addition of these : 

To teach girls to analyze their needs, their own individual appear- 
ance and their budgets in preparation for the selection of a garment. 

To teach girls the wise selection of clothing from the standpoints of 
health and beauty. 

To give girls a basis for wise judgment of household Hnens and bedding. 

To give older girls an understanding of the methods by which certain 
"fancies" are made often at the expense of durability. 

The work outlined for the elementary school, should be covered in 
the high school in the case of classes that have not yet had the work. 
In any case the information should be recalled in brief, for instance, 
when working on underwear, a critical study of the various materials 
suitable for underwear will recall the structure of the material, the char- 
acteristics of the fibre, and the adaptability to various uses. Tests for 
strength, washing out sizing, and counting threads to the inch by the 
use of a magnifier give one a good basis for judgment of quality. Chil- 
dren should handle both cheap and strong materials in order to fully 
appreciate quality. Attention directed to the widths of materials 
when cutting will help them to judge of economical widths. 

Microscopic study of the fibres, the weighting of fabrics, the use of 
substitute fibers, an explanation of the legitimate use of shoddy, mercer- 
ization, burning tests, analysis of weaves and finish, will all help the 
girls to judge of materials and their comparative values. Microscopic 



220 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

and chemical tests for identification of fibres in mixtures, tests for weight- 
ing, for fastness of dye and shrinkage, should be inserted whenever 
needed. Such tests can be found in various texts. This study may 
grow out of a need for school dish towels or napkins or preparation 
for buying of dress materials. 

Lessons in laundering and cleaning are very valuable. In addition 
to giving the girl a knowledge and skill that will help her as a life-long 
asset, they help her to judge of the way various materials and qualities 
respond to laundering, to realize what kind of wear laundering requires 
of garments, to exercise a wiser care of her clothing, and to respect the 
skill and service of a laundress. 

Parallel to laundering blankets or woolen flannels, pressing woolen 
clothing or making garments out of woolen materials, a careful study of 
the manufacture of both woolens and worsteds is easily grasped. 

A study of production of silk, the various methods of adulterating 
silk materials, the accepted use of artificial silk for hose and dress 
trimmings, all tend to make the girls wiser consumers and more anxious 
to know facts upon which wse buying depends. Such a knowledge 
requires an intelligent suspicion of misrepresentation and insures a 
willingness on the part of the consumer to pay for materials that will 
stand hard wear. Time and labor are too valuable to waste on shabby 
materials that, even when new, do not appear well. 

The skill of the manufacturer in misleading the purchaser will help to 
make every girl conscious of a need for legislation against misrepresen- 
tation and a need for a few materials manufactured according to specifi- 
cations. Such study may be inserted in relation to seasonal buying of 
suits, coats, or dresses. Comparison of various experiences as to econ- 
omy of various qualities of woolens and worsteds may stimulate the 
keeping of a class record of the life of all dresses, suits, and coats pur- 
chased by members of the class. This would lead naturally into a study 
of a well planned wardrobe and a clothing budget. Making the most 
of one's personal appearance should be studied with the cooperation 
of the Art Department. The hygiene of clothing is closely allied 
and may be taught in cooperation with the Department of Physical 
Education. 

To learn something of the research work in textiles that is being done 
in colleges, in textile schools, in stores, and in commercial laboratories 
will tend to give the girls an intelligent attitude toward textile study, 
a desire to participate in further investigatons in high school, and 
possibly a special interest to follow in college. 



1920] STATUS OF MISBRANDING ACTS 221 

THE PRESENT STATUS OF MISBRANDING ACTS AND OTHER 
TEXTILE LEGISLATION' 

That there is need for protection of the consumer of textiles, no woman 
who buys and wears clothing will deny. When the shine washes off the 
linen table cloth and the weighting cuts holes in her silk dress, she knows 
her hnen is cotton and her silk half tin, but she has no recourse. As 
a matter of honesty and right dealing, the question of pure textiles has 
always been important, but with the present prices it is imperative that 
the consumer be protected from frauds in fabrics. Processes of adulter- 
ating fabrics are being perfected and their use constantly increased until 
experienced buyers themselves cannot determine true values; the schools 
do not yet reach all women with the training which will teach them to 
know materials, and the women in the low income group who most need 
protection from fraud have none. 

With the passage of the Pure Food Act in 1906, the Interstate Com- 
merce Committee of the U. S. House of Representatives instituted the 
type of federal legislation which gives protection to the consumer by 
regulating interstate commerce in foods. A law of this kind, of course, 
does not reach intrastate commerce, but, following the initial passage 
of such an act by Congress, there is a tendency for the states to enact 
similar or identical laws and thereby give uniformity to the legislation 
throughout the country. 

In the last ten Congresses pure fabric legislation has been agitated 
at least three times and at least twelve bills have been presented but 
have failed of passage because they were ineffective or without merit. 

In 1916 Representative Alben W. Barkley of Kentucky introduced 
into the House a bill patterned very closely after the British Merchandise 
Marks Act which for thirty-two years has been in successful operation 
in the United Kingdom and in most of the British colonies. Legislation 
relating to the war and the railroads prevented consideration of the bill 
by the committee and action by the House until the beginning of this 
year when the so-called Truth-in-Fabrics legislation again began to 
attract attention. 

There have been introduced into the present Congress at least sLx 
bills which relate to fabrics.^ 

' From the Committee on the Standardization of Textiles of the American Home Economics 
Association. 

• Copies of these bills may be secured by writing to tlie House Document Room. 



222 THE JOURNAL OF HOUE ECONOMICS (May 

The French Bill (H. R. 11641) and the Capper Bill (S. 3686) are 
identical, haxing been introduced simultaneously into the House by 
Mr. French and in the Senate by Mr. ("apper. The bill aims "to prevent 
the deceit and profiteering that result from the unrevealed presence of 
substitutes for virgin wool in woven fabrics purporting to contain wool 
and in garments or articles of apparel made therefrom." The general 
opinion seems to be that some of the efTects of this bill would be to 
benefit the wool grower, to work a hardship on the manufacturer, to 
require federal appropriations for its enforcement, and to increase the 
price of clothing to the consumer by raising the price of new wool. 

The Kreider Bill (H. R. 9283) prohibits "fraud upon the public by 
making or disseminating false statements or assertions concerning any 
merchandise, commodities, securities or service" and provides penalties 
for the violation of the act. The bill does not include definitions nor 
is it as comprehensive as the other bills, being aimed particularly at 
fraudulent advertising. 

The Barkley Bill (H. R. 2855) prohibits the manufacture, sale, or 
transportation in interstate commerce of misbranded articles, regulates 
traffic therein, and penalizes violations of the law.' 

The Rogers Bill (H. R. 13136) is very much like the Barkley Bill, 
with the exception of certain sections which deal with trade-marks and 
trade descriptions. It also provides for larger penalties for violations 
of the law. 

The Interstate Commerce Committee held hearings on these bills 
(with the exception of the Kreider Bill which was referred by the House 
to the Committee on the Judiciary) from March 18 to March 31. The 
American Home Economics Association was represented by Miss Ina 
Pitner, who presented the cause of the consumer. The Association was 
also asked to prepare a statement to be incorporated in the published 
report of the hearings.^ 

As a result of the testimony offered at the hearings, the Interstate 
Commerce Committee seems to feel that the so-called Truth-in-Fabrics 
Law (The French-Capper Bill) might not give the desired results, but 
that legislation along the lines of the Misbranding Acts (The Rogers 
and Barkley Bills) is the kind of constructive legislation which the 

• See "Recent Work of the Committee on the Standardization of Textiles" in the Journal 
for March, 1920. See also Textiles, July, 1919, and The National Clothier, August, 1919. 

♦ The Report of the Hearings may be secured by writing to the Secretary of the Interstate 
and Foreign Commerce Committee, House Office Building, Washington, D. C. 



1920J PETTICOAT LANE TO PROSPERITY 223 

public needs. For this reason, it is expected that such a bill will be 
reported out by the Committee and an effort made to bring it before 
the House before its adjournment. Special effort is needed to get action 
before the close of a crowded session, and home economics people who 
are interested in the passage of the bill should make their interest known 
to their representatives as soon as the Bill is reported in the House. 



PETTICOAT LANE TO PROSPERITY 

The silks for the petticoats to be used in the wearing test reported 
by the Committee on the Standardization of Textiles in the March 
number of the Journal are now on the looms. We expect the eight 
hundred skirts will be ready for distribution about the first of June. 
For the leaflet giving details of sizes and prices, send to the Committee's 
manager, Miss Ina K. Pitner, Crescent Place, Short Hills, New Jersey. 

Very briefly, the silks are taffeta and messaline, three grades of each. 
The color of all the silks is identical, changeable na\y blue and green. 
The same design is used for all the skirts. The workmanship is excellent. 
The prices range from $9.50 to $12.00. The skirts will be sent out in 
lots of live or more to one address, cash being required with the order. 
The leaflet contains full details. The quality of the skirts is higher than 
it would be possible to secure at a retail store for the same price. Pur- 
chasers will be asked to keep a simple record of wear and send it to the 
Committee on request. 

The profits will be used to finance the growing work of the Committee. 

Orders will be filled in the order in which they are received. 



224 THE JOURNAL OF HOHE ECONOinCS (May 

OMICRON NU 

The Fifth Annual Conclave of Omicron Nu met at Madison, Wisconsin, 
with Eta Chapter, April 14 to 18, during the spring vacation of the Uni- 
versity of Wisconsin. This meeting was a most eventful one in the history 
of Omicron Nu. 

BETA CHAPTER 

During the Annual Meeting of the New York Slate Teachers' Association 
which met at Albany the week of November 24, Beta Chapter at the New 
York State College for Teachers had an informal dinner and get-together in 
the college dining-room. Several alumnae were back for the occasion. An 
alumnae branch of Beta Chapter was organized at this meeting. Plans are 
being made for an alumnae meeting in June. 

On Friday evening, February 6, Beta Chapter had an open meeting at the 
Home Economics Dormitory. All the faculty and students of the Home 
Economics Department were invited, and a large number attended. A short 
program was given including vocal solos and a talk by one of the Beta mem- 
bers explaining the aims of Omicron Nu and qualifications for membership. 
Miss Steele, one of our faculty members, entertained the guests with a most 
interesting account of her trip to England where she went this past summer 
to investigate the possibilities of affiliation between Home Economics in America 
and England, in an International Home Economics Association. 

IOTA CHAPTER 

Iota Chapter at University of Kansas, Lawrence, have set apart Tuesday 
and Thursday of every week from 10.30 to 11.30 for food sales. Each girl, 
with several assistants which she may choose, has charge of one particular 
week, and plans for the preparing and selling of the particular foods which 
she selects. The girls find rapid sale for articles. Some of the most salable 
articles are cream puffs, individual spice and chocolate cakes, cookies, sand- 
wiches, and cinnamon rolls. 

On March 13 Iota Chapter represented itself in an all University Carnival, 
the proceeds of which went to the Loyalty Movement of the University. All 
the Omicron Nu girls were dressed in white, wearing Hoover aprons and 
caps with "Hoover for President" printed across the front of the cap. Each 
girl was responsible for a tray, held by a strap placed around the neck, and 
she sold from this during the entire evening. The articles sold were typical 
of those found at every Carnival, among them popcorn balls, taf£ed apples, 
ice cream cones, and lemons with cinnamon sticks. 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

THE WASTE OF NATURAL GAS 

RACHEL COLWELL 

West Virginia University 

Secretary Lane of the Department of the Interior called, on Janu- 
ary 15, a public conference of governors, public utility commissioners, 
state geologists, home economics experts, natural gas companies owners 
and ofl&cials, and appliance manufacturers to discuss the conservation 
of natural gas. 

When the meeting was called to order in the New Interior Building 
in Washington, the auditorium was filled ^vith representative people 
from the six gas producing states: Ohio, Pennsylvania, West Virginia, 
Kentucky, Oklahoma, and Texas. 

Secretary Lane in the first address emphasized the fact that the 
natural gas situation is acute, as there are over 2,400,000 domestic 
natural gas consimiers, and they waste more than 80 per cent of the 
gas received. The efficiency of most domestic appliances can be trebled 
and one foot of gas be made to do the work of three. The purpose of 
this conference was to consider particularly possible economies in gas 
utilization and the mutual interests of the public and the gas companies. 

Mr. Manning, Director of the Bureau of Mines, was introduced as 
Chairman of the meeting, and spoke on the part which the Bureau of 
Mines is taking in gas conservation. Much has been said by the Bureau 
of Mines and by others about the criminal waste of natural gas that is 
taking place in our gas fields. Natural gas, one of the most valuable 
mineral assets of the country, has been permitted to dissipate in such 
manner that the public has derived relatively small value from it. In 
recent years the public has demanded that clTorts be made to minimize 
this waste. But. although possibly the most flagrant and the largest 
wastes have been in the fields and along the transmission lines of the gas 
companies, there have been great wastes in the household of every con- 
sumer, and the public, therefore, has been a party to this crime. 

225 



226 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

It is time for the public to take a new view'point on the waste of 
natural gas. It is time for the domestic consumer to realize that his 
duty is not done when he cries out against the flagrant wastes occurring 
in the gas fields, and demands of his Government that such wastes be 
abated; he must realize that he himself is likewise at fault and that it 
is time for him to set his own house in order. Furthermore, the domes- 
tic consumer must realize that these wastes do not concern him alone, 
and that he has not the right, merely because he pays for the gas. to 
employ it in any manner that pleases him, no matter how wasteful this 
may be. Natural gas is a natural resource in which every inhabitant of 
this country has an equity. Those who waste the gas do so at the 
expense of others who would use it efficiently. Natural gas is not 
replaced by nature, and in comparison with the life of the nation the 
duration of the supply will be brief. The public has a right, therefore, 
to demand that this natural asset be used to the greatest advantage of 
all. Natural gas in each city is ?. community asset and every con- 
sumer has a right to demand that wasteful use shall be prohibited in 
the interest of the public service. This is particularly important during 
cold spells in the winter when the supply is insufficient and actual suffer- 
ing may occur. It is not right that any consumer suffer at such times 
because of the extravagance and waste of other consumers, even though 
they are willing to pay for the gas wasted. Nor can the citizens justify 
demands for better service from the public utility companies without mak- 
ing provision for the correction of abuses in their own homes. The pub- 
lic has been and is to-day just as much a party to the crime of wasting 
this natural resource as are the companies that produce and market it. 

Mr. Samuel S. Wyer, a consulting engineer, who was chief of natural 
gas conservation of the Fuel Administration during the war, called 
attention to the tremendous waste of gas between the field and the 
ultimate consumer's meter, averaging about 35 per cent of the total gas 
reduced to possession at the wells, and to the tremendous waste of gas 
by the domestic consumer, averaging about 80 per cent of the total 
amount of gas received. Mr. Wyer feels that it is impractical to now 
correct much of the waste of gas in the field due to the fact that the 
expense involved would increase the cost of the gas so materially as to 
render its domestic use almost prohibitive. Yet to reduce the waste in 
the home it is necessary to make the gas worth sa\-ing by increasing some- 
what the price of the gas. Increasing the price will not increase the 



1920] THE WASTE OF NATURAL GAS 227 

revenue of the gas company because, as is proved by reports, as the 
price of gas goes up the amount used by the consumer is lessened. 

He referred to a study, made in the Home Economics Department of 
Ohio State University, of the relative cost of five fuels for cooking a 
dinner. The dinner cooked consisted of steak, scalloped potatoes, 
spinach, bread, butter, rice pudding, coffee, cream, and sugar, with por- 
tions for six people. The fuel cost was taken as follows : Natural gas SI .00 
per 1000 cubic feet; soft coal S6.50 per ton, delivered to the house; gas- 
oline 27 cents per gallon; coal oil 15 cents per gallon; electricity 3 cents 
per kilowatt hour. The natural gas used with properly directed short 
flame cost 1.1 cents with 1 to 2 ounce pressure; 2.2 cents with 4 to 5 
ounce pressure and long flame; 2.5 cents with soft coal; 4.6 cents with 
gasoline; 5 cents with electricity; and 5.4 cents with coal oil. Natural 
gas then should be conserved for cooking purposes not only because 
of its convenience but also because it is an economical source of fuel. 

Mr. Wyer claims that there are three main sources of waste in the 
home, which, if stopped, would add from fifteen to twenty years to the 
period that natural gas will be available for domestic use. 

The first waste to be corrected is the amount of gas lost through 
leaking pipes and fixtures in the home. It is estimated that fully one- 
sixth of the gas which passes through the house meter is lost. That is, 
for ever}' 1000 cubic feet registered through the meter 165 feet is never 
burned. For every dollar paid for gas, 16 cents is thrown away. 

A second large waste of gas is in the use of inefiicient heating and 
cooking appliances. WTien a coal furnace is used for burning natural 
gas only 25 per cent of the gas is utilized; 75 per cent of the gas is wasted. 
If the coal furnace is converted into a natural gas furnace 75 per cent 
of the gas is utilized. That means that in a properly constructed fur- 
nace one foot of gas will give as much heat as three feet did with the 
old wasteful t>-pe of furnace. With rightly constructed apparatus 
natural gas at SI. 00 per thousand would cost the consumer no more 
than 33 cent gas does now. It would yield no more revenue to the gas 
company and would prolong the period of the supply of natural gas. 

The natural gas cook stove with solid top and low set burner, usually 
more than 2^ inches below the cooking vessel, wastes 87 per cent of the 
gas brought to the stove. The artificial gas stove gives the same amount 
of service with one foot of gas that the natural gas stove does with 
3 feet of gas. If it is not possible to use the correct type of stove the 
natural gas stove may be converted by: 



228 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS (May 

Raising the manifold and burner supports so as to bring the burners 
to the proper height below the cooking vessel, or, preferably in some 
stoves, cementing a new burner casting on top of the existing low burner. 
If neither of these methods is practical it is possible to put a few nails 
or triangular pieces of thin sheet iron in the burner slots so as to have a 
support on which to rest the vessel. The principle involved is to have 
the vessel come in contact with the blue tip of the short flame. The 
yellow flame is wasteful because all of the gas delivered is not converted 
into heat. The blue flame gives the most heat. The burner should 
have holes drilled so as to allow the gas flame to bum straight to the 
cooking vessel. 

Xo cook stove should be used with a closed top as it wastes the gas, 
but the top should be of the grid or skeleton tynpe. The cook stove 
should be clean. That means that the person who uses the stove should 
know how to care for and how to use it properly. 

The pressure of gas is likely to vary and in order to bum the least 
amount of gas there should be no blowing of the bumers or any hissing 
sound. Hissing may be stopped by partially closing the gas cock. 

When the pressure of gas is low it is necessary to use a large sized 
spud. A spud is the small opening immediately in front of the gas cock 
through which the gas passes into the mixer. Some stoves have adjust- 
able spuds, others must either have new spuds or have the small open- 
ing made larger. With proper sized spud and the vessel placed about 
Ij inches above the bumer it is possible to obtain satisfactory cooking 
results with pressure as low as m inch of water pressure. This produces 
the short flame about f inch long. The cooking can be done in the 
nomial time and with less gas than would be used with the long flame 
and high pressure which is generally from 4 to 6 or 8 ounces of pressure. 

Most incandescent mantle lamps are not properly adjusted and use 
much more gas than is necessary, usually 50 to 75 per cent more than 
would be required with proper adjustment. A hissing or roaring sound 
from the lamp is a sign of excessive consumption. The ordinary open 
flame bumer, which requires 2? times as much gas to give the same 
amount of light as the incandescent mantle, is still in frequent use. 

The third source of waste is in the burning of gas when it is not needed. 
One incandescent mantle lamp burning all the time for one year would 
consume 43,800 feet of gas; three such lamps would waste enough gas 
to supply one domestic consumer for a year. Many street lights are 
fitted with such mantles and kept burning all the time. 



1920] THE WASTE OF NATURAL GAS 229 

The leakage from gas fixtures if only one foot per hour will mean 
8769 feet per year, a month's gas supply for the average family. 

After Mr. Wyer's talk there was a general discussion, and the opinion 
of the conference was expressed in the following resolutions: 

Whereas, The supply of natural gas is limited in quantity and is not being 
replaced by Nature, and 

Whereas, There is no other fuel that can replace natural gas which is 
as cheap, as convenient and as efficient, and 

Whereas, The supply of natural gas is failing in many communities; be it 

Resolved, In order that the supply of natural gas may be prolonged and the 
service improved, this Conference recommends that the appropriate agency 
in each State which uses natural gas take measures to discover what amount 
of natural gas is now being wasted by the consumer, and the various causes of 
such waste, and adopt such measures as may be available to reduce such 
wastes and effect economies in order that the benefits from this natural 
resource be prolonged ; and be it further 

Resolved, That the appropriate agencies, both State and Federal, be urged 
to stimulate research in perfecting means and methods for a more efficient 
use of natural gas; and be it further 

Resolved, That the appropriate State and Federal agencies be urged to 
conduct educational campaigns to instruct consumers and the public in the 
importance of the wastes of natural gas; how economies in the use of natural 
gas may be effected, and on the natural gas situation in general, that the 
public may be informed on the subject and deal with it in the most intelli- 
gent manner; and be it further 

Resolved, That every effort be made towards arriving at understandings 
between the natural gas industry and the communities using natural gas 
as to how the supply of natural gas can be best conserved and its life prolonged; 
and be it further 

Resolved, That a committee of ten be appointed by the Chairman of this 
Conference to represent the natural gas industry, and the public and Federal 
institutions to cooperate with the Director of the Bureau of Mines in working 
out a constructive program for the conservation of natural gas and the better- 
ing of the natural gas service, and in collecting and distributing information 
on this subject. 

Every home keeper and teacher in gas consuming states should have a 
copy of the Bulletin published by the Department of the Interior, 
"Waste and Correct Use of Natural Gas in the Home." Every person 
interested in home keeping should know what natural gas cooking appli- 
ances are efficient, how to care for and how to use them. 



230 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

HOMEMADE VERSUS READY-MADE CLOTHING 

KATHERI.VE CRANOR 
Professor oj Household Arts, James MiUikin UnivtrsUy, Decatur, Illinois 

With the present cost of clothing materials most women must con- 
sider more than ever before the question of how to be well dressed at 
the least possible expense. One step toward thrift in clothing and one 
of the best means of stretching the clothing allowance is to make one's 
own garments. When the cost of making does not have to be added 
to the cost of material the same money will pro\ide a garment of much 
better materials and workmanship. When clothing is made at home, 
one-half or two-thirds the cost may often be saved. A dark silk dress 
for example, of fair material and workmanship, if it is a garment of 
distinctive style, will cost anywhere from S60 to SI 25. Four or five 
yards of material will make the dress; $5 per yard will buy silk of far 
better quality than is used in the best of the ready-made garments. 
Five dollars, or ten at most, should cover the cost of buttons and other 
trimmings, thread, and findings for the average dress, making the 
total cost of materials from S25 to S35. 

The color can be chosen with more care and may be adapted more 
easily to the coloring and general personality of the wearer. The home- 
made garment more often expresses indi\-iduahty, is more artistic many 
times, and is less apt to be duplicated. This last means a good deal 
to the average woman who wishes something different from that worn 
by her neighbor. Even the best dressmaker may duplicate some of her 
gowns. Often a customer is led to believe that the dress she is pur- 
chasing is an exclusive design, and she may pay a high price for it for 
this reason. Last summer three women met on the campus of one of 
New York's great universities, each from a different part of the country. 
One woman was tall and very stout, one of medium size, and one thin. 
Each had heen sold the dress she had on with the idea that she had the 
only dress of its kind, and that it was just the thing which was best 
adapted to her especial type of figure. In reality the dress was suited 
only to the slender woman. Many times the unscrupulous salesman 
persuades his customer to buy by telling her that the style of hat or 
dress is just what she needs to bring out the good points in her figure 
or to cover up certain defects. Many of the dresses, suits, and coats 
offered are entirely unsuited to the general needs of the average woman 
and many of them are ugly besides. 



1920] HOMEMADE VS. READY-MADE CLOTHING 231 

Of course to make clothing successfully one must have some knowledge 
of garment construction, a feeling for line and color, and some skill of 
hand. Every woman does not have the required knowledge, but the 
public schools, normal schools, colleges, and universities give oppor- 
tunities for training in textiles and clothing. Then there are extension 
courses, evening classes, short courses, bulletins, newspaper and maga- 
zine articles, as well as numerous lectures on dress, besides some helpful 
books. The woman of average intelligence who is interested in the mak- 
ing of garments may at least get some idea of the selection of materials, 
of design, and also of the processes of construction. The inexperienced 
woman might start on simple garments such as aprons, underwear, and 
children's clothes. After she has gained a little experience and has be- 
come more skillful in the use of her needle it will not be difficult for her 
to make her own dresses. Many say, "But why trouble to make clothes, 
as it is not possible to get the cut and style which is found in the ready- 
made garment." We must admit that in the average dress which is 
made in the home there is a lack of distinction in cut but this is unnec- 
essary. There is no reason why such a dress should have a "homemade " 
appearance. It is possible to make a garment in the home which has 
the style of the gown made by the professional. It may even surpass 
it in cut. If the person who makes her own clothes has some artistic 
sense, a feeling for clothes, a knowledge of what is good in dress from 
the standpoint of art, is conscious of her good and her weak points, 
knows how to emphasize the good and to cover up the bad, it is not 
difficult to make a garment which is far more artistic than any she could 
buy for a moderate price. It may even be as chic as those shown in the 
best shops. The woman of artistic taste often is able to add little indi- 
vidual touches which are the making of a garment. The woman who 
can make for herself a few artistic dresses of distinctive cut, which may 
be used until they are worn out because they are simple and look nice, 
is fortunate indeed. 

Great care must be used in the choice of materials when a garment is 
to be made at home. In order that it may be suited to its use, not only 
is it necessary to know for what it is to be used but also the style of gar- 
ment which is to be made, so that the exact quantity of material may be 
computed. Guessing at the quantity shows poor judgment. It is 
always wasteful to buy too much and even worse to buy too little, since 
it is sometimes impossible to match a piece of material. Many people 
plan to have some left for the time when the garment is to be made over. 



232 TIIE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [May 

This is usually not worth while and does not tend to thrift in clothing, 
as a garment often changes color or wears in such a way as to make it 
impossible to use the new material. The quality of the material is im- 
portant. A poor fabric docs not wear, never looks well, and is more 
apt to change color and change its shape. It is better to economize on 
the number of dresses rather than on the quality of their material. In 
choosing color, consider the hair, eyes, complexion, personality, age, 
and build of the wearer, and the occasion for which the dress is intended 
as well as the fastness of the color. In considering durability, buy 
material which is firm. The weave also affects the wearing quality. 
For example: plain weave and twill weave wear better than satin, 
basket, and figure weaves, because these last have many loose threads 
that may catch on things and pull and in this way be easily spoiled. 
Be able to recognize fibers and adulterations. Know what you are 
buying. 

The amount of time one has, the value of that time, and the amount 
of money one can afford to spend for clothing are factors which deter- 
mine whether or not garments are to be bought or made at home. 
Often it is far more sensible to buy garments ready-made than to 
make them. Many women have their time fully taken by work which 
means more to them and to the world than making their own 
clothes could possibly mean. Many business women work hard every 
day and have no time for sewing except at night. They are too tired 
when evening comes to bother with making clothes, and sometimes they 
are not the people who sew with ease. If such women are making a 
fair salary they had far better get some training in wise selection and 
buy their clothing. Mothers sometimes find that they must choose 
between doing their own sewing and being companions to their chil- 
dren. Again there are women who have some leisure but have a 
strong dislike for sewing, who do not do it well or easily, yet caimot 
afford to hire everything made or to buy high priced ready-made gar- 
ments. It is better for them if possible to do some kind of work which 
they do Uke and can do well and use the money toward buying their 
clothes. If one must hire one's sewing done, there is no great saving 
in cost over buying ready-made, but one gets better materials and better 
made garments, yet often they are lacking in style. The average dress- 
maker or sewing woman does not have the time to study line, color, 
individuality, and fashion sufficiently to turn out always a stylish, 
artistic, garment. Then, besides, she is not paid enough for her work 
to justify her in spending the time necessary to get such results. Each 
woman must decide for herself whether she is willing to sacrifice cost 



1920] HOMEMADE VS. READY-MADE CLOTHING 233 

for material, workmanship, and individuality, or vice versa. Again 
the woman who is clever with her needle, if she has a little leisure, may 
give the ready-made dress or other garment certain indi\'idual touches, 
which may change it entirely and in a way adapt it to her personality 
and individuality. 

If clothing is to be bought ready-made the use of the garment must 
be considered and the occasion for which it is intended. Decide what 
you can afford to pay for it and try to get the full value of the money 
you have put into it. Remember that well-made, high-class garments 
of good material are not cheap. One must expect to pay a good price 
for quaHty, but the cost of the garment in relation to the clothing budget 
as a whole must also be considered. 

Buy clothing which has been made under right conditions. The 
woman who is interested in bettering the condition of her fellow 
workers, who has a sympathy for society as a whole and an interest in it, 
is not going to wear the garment which has been made at the expense 
of the health and Character of other women. She will not encourage 
sweated labor, unsanitary conditions, long hours, and underpaid labor 
by buying garments which have been made under those conditions. 

Buy high-class garments, if possible, — garments of good material, 
style, and workmanship. By all means consider comfort and beauty. 
Have a few simple, well chosen clothes, and stick to lines and colors 
which are most becoming. Lack of art and indi^•iduality in dress is 
one reason why so many tire of their clothes and are willing and anxious 
to cast them aside for new ones. Distinction of style and perfection of 
cut detennine to a great extent the success of a garment. 



EDITORIAL 

Colorado and the American Home Economics Association. The 

Centennial State, Colorado, can best express her welcome to the members 
of the American Home Economics Association through the opportunities 
for recreation, for rest, and for sightseeing, with which she has been so 
richly endowed. Colorado Springs, with her mile-high elevation, her 
days of sunshine and nights of cool refreshment, offers exceptional com- 
fort and convenience for Association meetings. 

Pike's Peak, the famous old sentinel of the Rockies, with its cog road 
and its broad auto toll road; the "Garden of the Gods," a district of 
unique rock formation; these, and numerous other attractions are in the 
immediate \'icinity of the convention town. 

Colorado contains within her boundaries two famous national play 
grounds, the Rocky Mountain National Park (Estes Park) and the 
Mesa Verde National Park. 

A half day's ride to the north of the Springs brings the Colorado 
visitor to the Rocky Mountain National Park. Access to this wonderful 
mountain resort, nestling on "the top of the world," is possible only by 
means of automobile highways, the most spectacular of which follows 
the Big Thompson river in its winding course through rugged, rock- 
walled canons. Adventure, the thrill of a hundred-mile \iew at sunrise, 
the breath taking ecstasy of a glance backward to one's starting point 
miles below, or just plain, lazy, old-fashioned fun, fishing or riding 
horseback, are all within reach of the sojourner in Estes Park. It has 
been repeatedly said that the peaks and ranges of the park offer every 
incentive, every thrill, and every satisfaction to the mountain climber 
that may be found in the Alps of Switzerland. One of the most popular 
climbs, requiring hardihood both of body and of nerve, is the ascent of 
Long's Peak, towering 14,271 feet above sea level — higher even than the 
famous Pike's Peak. 

The Mesa Verde National Park is in the southwestern part of the 
state and contains what is considered the most notable and best pre- 
served of the prehistoric cliff-dwellings. These ancient dwellings, cling- 
ing to the walls of overhanging cliffs, for all the world Uke swallow's 
234 



1920] EDITORIAL 235 

nests, are constructed of a masonry which has stood, with surprising 
resistance, the assaults of time, of weather, and of unknown battles. 
Finger prints of the toilers of centuries ago are still visible in the mortar. 

These are a few of the things to see and "do" in Colorado. Besides 
these there are many, many other attractions such as the Denver Park 
Mountains, so extensive that they require a day by auto to cover. 
Almost every town within the state, especially along the foothills, has 
some scenic attraction to offer, reached invariably by smooth auto roads. 

Nor should it be forgotten that Colorado Springs is on the way west- 
ward to Yellowstone National Park, and to Glacier Park. 

Conference on Group Living. The invitation to a Conference on 
Group Li\dng to be held at the Lake Placid Club May 27 to 31, 
already noted in the Journal, has been extended by Mrs. Dewey to 
members of the American Dietetic Association, to the Conference of 
Deans of Women, the Institution Section of the American Home 
Economics Association, economic secretaries of the Y. W. C. A, super- 
intendents of hospitals, faculties of colleges giving instruction in insti- 
tution management, and others. This is not an ofEcial meeting, but 
affords an opportunity for those especially interested in the problems 
that arise in group living to have several days conference. Its chief 
purpose is to unify results, to broaden the scope of future research, 
and avoid duplication of work. 

The program is arranged under six headings: Diet and food service; 
Buying; Training; Housing, Research; Personnel. Some of the topics 
are: Community Kitchen experiments; Cooperative agencies; Investi- 
gation of opportunities and training in technical fields; Floor plans for 
large group living; Hotel for women; Purchasing of meats; Buying of 
fruits and canned goods; Cost studies; Diet studies — National Council 
of Research; Recent labor studies. Round table conferences will be held 
on school lunches, eight hour service jn households, and other topics. 
The list of speakers includes Dr. McCollum, Miss Arnold, Dr. Meeker 
of the Department of Labor, Dr. Cole of Harvard, Miss Geary of 
the Y. W. C. A., the president and secretary of the American Dietetic 
Association, and others equally well known to the home economics 
world, besides several experts from other fields. 

The Lake Placid Club, as in former years, has extended the courtesy 
of half rates to the members of the conference. Motor and launch 
trips, walks and climbs, rowing, tennis and golf will add the charm 
of delightful recreation to the inspiration of the meetings. 



236 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [^^ay 

Meeting of the American Home Economics Association in con- 
nection with the Department of Superintendence, X. E. A. At the 
meeting of the A. H. E. A. held in Cleveland, February 23 and 24, 1920, 
there was an attendance of between two hundred and three hundred at 
each session. 

At the Council meeting held on Monday afternoon, Edna N. White, 
the president, presiding, there was an attendance of 18. New members 
of the Executive Committee were appointed as follows: Mildred Weigley, 
Alice F. Blood, Ava Milam, Alice M. Loomis, Mary E. Matthews. 

Plans were discussed concerning the meeting to be held in Colorado 
Springs, Colorado, June 24-29, 1920. One of the most interesting 
topics for action was the proposed plan to establish at Constantinople 
College for Women a chair of Home Economics to be supported by the 
Association. The following committee was appointed to raise money 
for the fund to make the professorship possible: Abby Marlatt, Chair- 
man; Isabel Ely Lord, Eastern states; Agnes Ellen Harris, Southern 
states; Isabel Bevier, Central states; Alice M. Loomis, West Central 
states; Ava B. Milam, Pacific states. 

An unusually interesting program had been prepared for the meeting 
by the Program Committee, Abby Marlatt chairman. On Monday 
afternoon the main topic was Methods in High Schools. Helen Good- 
speed, State Supervisor of Home Economics, Madison, Wisconsin, 
outlined a scheme for developing the problem solving method in home 
economics teaching. She ofTered specific suggestions for linking the 
present life of the girl with her work in home economics in the school. 
Rosa Biery, University of Chicago, Elementary and High Schools, 
presented a paper on AppUed Economics in a One Year Home Econom- 
ics High School Course. Miss Biery has worked out a very excellent 
scheme, and one with many possibilities for development. The general 
discussion of these two papers showed a keen interest in the topic. 

At this meeting Miriam Birdseye, States Relations Service, Washing- 
ton, D. C, presented a report of the work of the Textile Committee 
which is undertaking to promote standardization of textile fabrics, and 
promises to accomplish results along this much needed line. 

Edna N. White, Director of the Merrill-Palmer School, Detroit, 
Michigan, was leader of the discussion. 

The subject for Tuesday morning was Tests in Home Economics 
Teaching, Adelaide Laura Van Duzen, Supervisor of Home Economics, 
Cleveland, Ohio, presiding. Mabel Trilling presented the topic Stand- 



1920] EDITORIAL 237 

ard Tests in Teaching Textiles and Clothing. The reports of this work, 
both in Cleveland, and in Blue Ridge, June, 1919, have been most 
interesting and valuable. Florence Williams, Supervisor of Industrial 
Arts, Richmond, Indiana, followed Miss Trilling and told how tests are 
an aid in the teaching and organization of home economics. Betsey 
Madison, Home Economics Department, University of Wisconsin, 
Madison, presented a paper on Teaching by the Meal Plan Method. 
After a lively discussion, Mrs. Mary Schenck Woobnan spoke briefly 
upon the subject of the moving picture as an aid in the teaching of home 
economics. 

On Tuesday afternoon, Lydia Roberts, Assistant Professor of Home 
Economics, University of Chicago, was leader. The general topic of 
the meeting was Child Feeding. Miss Roberts gave a very definite 
and concrete report on the field work which she has been doing for the 
Children's Bureau that carried with it confidence in the results to be 
gained through work along the lines of child welfare. Mary A. Harper, 
Association for Improving the Condition of the Poor, New York City, 
followed Miss Roberts and told of the work of a Feeding Chnic and 
Demonstration School. It is interesting to note that in work of this 
tjT^e the results are tangible and one is inspired to bend all efforts in 
every direction possible toward improvement in health through wise 
feeding. A very interesting exhibit of rats on different experimental 
diets was shown by Emma Francis, Battle Creek Sanitarium, Battle 
Creek, Michigan, with details in relation to the various experiments. 
Miss Francis made the very generous offer to supply those who request 
them with photographs of rats fed on different diets. Furthermore, 
she offered to send to anyone who wished them live rats for purposes of 
experimenting. 

A home economics dinner was arranged by the local committee for 
Monday night, at which several prominent residents of Cleveland spoke. 
Visits had also been arranged to elementary and junior and senior high 
schools, to the Western Reserve University, to the Y. W. C. A., to 
factories serving lunches, and to hospitals. 

Great appreciation was expressed for the work of the local committee 
which made the visit to Cleveland a most delightful one for all members 
of the Association. 

Cora M. Winchell, 
Secretary, American Home Economics Association. 



238 THE JOURNAL OF HOilE ECONOMICS (May 

Is the Calcium of Vegetables of Value? Since Sherman and Gillett 
showed con\incingly that calcium is the food constituent which is most 
apt to be lacking in the diet of many people, nutrition workers have been 
concerned as to possible sources of it. Milk is well knovs-n to furnish 
the chief supply. Is this the only food which can give it satisfactorily? 
Is that supplied by vegetables of equal value? 

In 1918 McClugage and Mendel,' published the results of experiments 
on feeding various forms of calcium to two dogs. They used milk, 
calcium carbonate, spinach, and carrots. The quantities of calcium fed 
were in no case sufficient to prevent loss of some calcium from the ani- 
mals' bodies. The calcium from vegetables was much less completely 
utilized than from the other sources. From milk on the average only 
27 per cent of that fed was lost, from calcium carbonate 35 per cent, 
and from the spinach and the carrots the large amount of 80 per cent. 
The experiments bring out clearly that, for the dogs, milk and the in- 
organic salt had a greater value as a source of this element than had the 
vegetables used. 

More recently Mrs. Mary Swartz Rose' has published two series of 
experiments on the utilization of calcium by healthy young women, 
which give results quite different from those of the Yale investigators. 
All of the diets contained approximately the minimum amount of 
calcium on which calcium equilibrium can be maintained. In the first 
three weeks 70 per cent of the element came from milk and in the second 
two weeks milk was almost completely omitted and carrots substituted 
as the source of calcium. The calcium in this second period was as well 
utilized as in the first. It seems therefore possible for adults to obtain 
the required calcium largely from carrots. 

' McClugage, H. B. and Mendel, L. B., Experiments on the Utilization of Nitrogen, 
Calcium, and Magnesium in Diets Containing Carrots and Spinach. Jour. Biol. Ckem., 
35, 353, 1918. 

■ Rose, Mary Swartz, Experiments on the Utilization of the Calcium of Carrots by Man. 
Jour. Biol. Chem., 41, 349, 1920. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



Gift to the National Academy of 
Sciences and the National Research 
Council. The Carnegie Corporation of New 
York has given §5,000,000 to the Xational 
Academy of Sciences and the National 
Research Council. Part will be used to erect 
in Washington a home of "suitable architec- 
tural dignity" for the two organizations, and 
the remainder will be a permanent endow- 
ment for the Xational Research Council. 
"The council is a democratic organization 
based upon some forty of the great scientific 
and engineering societies of the country, 
which elect delegates to its constituent divi- 
sions. It is not supported or controlled by 
the government, differing in this respect 
from other similar organizations established, 
since the beginning of the war, in England, 
Italy, Japan, Canada, and .Australia. . . . 
The council was organized in 1916 as a 
measure of national preparedness and its 
efforts during the war were mostly confined to 
assisting the government in the solution of 
pressing war-time problems involving scien- 
tific investigation. Reorganized since the 
war on a peace-time footing, it is now 
attempting to stimulate and promote scien- 
tific research in agriculture, medicine, and 
industr>', and in ever)' field of pure science." 
This is a matter of great interest to home 
economics workers as well as to others inter- 
ested in scientific progress and its applica- 
tion to life. As an instance may be cited 
the work of the Division of Biology and 
Agriculture, of which C. E. McClung is 
chairman. One of the committees of this 
division deals with "Food and Nutrition." 
Prof. J. R. Murlin is chairman. The com- 
mittee has three standing sub-committees, 
namely: (a) .\nimal nutrition; (b) Human 
nutrition; (c) Protein metabolism in animal 
feeding. 



A New Home Economics Club. The 
young women of the Home Economics De- 
partment of the State Manual Training 
Normal at Pittsburg, Kansas, have formed 
a Home Economics Club during the last 
semester. Officers for the year have been 
elected and the regular monthly business 
meetings have been marked by a good attend- 
ance and instructive and entertaining 
programs. 

The object of this club is three-fold and 
the young women who make up the member- 
ship have as their aim the gaining of knowl- 
edge and skill in the science and art of home- 
making; a realization of the importance of 
the home, its duties and relation to society; 
and the development of poise, dignity, and 
other qualities which bespeak true woman- 
hood. Through the accomplishment of 
these ends it is expected that the depart- 
ment will be strengthened and the course 
enriched and broadened. 

The Pittsburg Normal is a very young 
institution but a well balanced four-year 
course in Home Economics is offered and 
the general tone of the institution is pecu- 
liarly in keeping with the development of 
alert, sympathetic, accomplished teachers 
and workers in the broader field of home- 
making. 

A Health Campaign. The Department 
of Household .Vrts Education of Teachers 
College, Columbia University, is conducting 
a health campaign among the students of 
the department and others who have 
wished to enter it. 

The departments of Nutrition and Phy- 
sical Education are giving their hearty 
cooperation to the movement. 

Records and weight charts are being kept 
and attention is given to individual cases 
needing advice. 

239 



240 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[May 



The students arc not only aiming to malie 
themselves physically fit, but are learning 
how to organize and conduct a health 
campaign. 

Of 131 students registered in this cam- 
paign, 22.1 per cent are 10 per cent or more 
below normal weight and 16.8 per cent are 
10 per cent or more above normal. 

A series of mass meetings has been 
arranged by the student committee for the 
mcmbcrsof the department. Various phases 
of the health problem will be presented by 
specialists in the field. 

Each class participating in the contest 
appointed a committee of two students from 
its own membership to assist the general 
committee in the execution of the plans for 
the campaign. 

Angelinc Wood, Frances Zuill and Eliza- 
beth Marsh are the members of the student 
committee in charge of the campaign. A 
stafU committee of five members act as an 
advisory board. The members of this com- 
mittee are Dr. Mar>' Swartz Rose, Dr. 
Thomas D. Wood, Wilhemina H. Spohr, 
Josephine A. Marshall, and Cora M. 
Winchell. 

State Teachers Association in Colum- 
bia, South Carolina. At a recent meeting 
Dr. Benjamin .\ndrcws of the Savings Divi- 
sion, U. S. Treasury Department, Washing- 
ton, spoke to the members of the Home Eco- 
nomics Association in the afternoon and 
was on the general program for the evening. 
He spoke in an impressive way of the prob- 
lems we are facing today, not only those 
of food and clothing, but of all living condi- 
tions. He told of the work some states are 
doing and urged the appointment of a 
program committee on thrift. The asso- 
ciation felt especially favored in having 
him present. 

Notes. A course of lectures on lunch- 
room management is being given in New 
York University by Miss Elizabeth H. Bohn. 
Some of the topics are: benefits of company 
lunch rooms; food requirements and stand- 
ards; accounting; equipment. 

The New York Association of Dietitians 
is making a survey in hospitals, throughout 



the state, of the courses in dietetics given 
nurses, the training ofTered to pupil dieti- 
tians, and the duties of the dietitians in the 
various hospitals. 

National Education Association. The 
next annual meeting will be held at Salt 
Lake City, Utah, July 4-10, inclusive. 

A feature of the program will be the Con- 
gress of Boards of Education on Thursday, 
July 8 — forenoon, afternoon, and evening. 
Theme: "Financing and Managing the 
Public Schools." Members of school boards, 
state, city, and county superintendents, and 
educational experts will take part in the 
discussions. 

The program of the Department of Home 
Economics for the General Federation Meet- 
ing in Dcs Moines, June 16-23, includes two 
conferences — one on Child Welfare as a 
Home Economics Problem in the Home of 
the Average Club Woman and the other 
A Home Economics and a Made in America 
program. The latter will include a presen- 
tation of the Dye Situation, the Textile 
Situation, and Federal Control of Food. 

OUR CONTMBtJTORS 

From time to time the JointNAi, is favored 
by contributions from those who are not 
well knonn to all our readers. Such con- 
tributors may have newly come into home 
economics work, they may only lately have 
entered the literary field, or they may have 
made their reputation in other lines of work. 
Of the last class is George S. Bryan, the 
author of "Notes on Early New England 
Eating." Mr. Br>'an is a member of the 
.American Historical .\ssociation, waJ former- 
ly on the editorial staff of the Encyclopedia 
.Vmericana and other important publications, 
is the author of several books, and is a fre- 
quent contributor to well known newspapers. 

Marguerite Davis was associated with Dr. 
McCollum in his work at the University of 
Wisconsin. Her co-authors are at present 
students in that university. 

It wll interest many to know that Alice 
F. Mendel, the author of ".Vlimentarj- Hy- 
giene and Rational .\limentation in the Year 
3000," in our last number, is the wife of Dr. 
LaFayette B. Mendel of Yale University. 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. XU JUNE, 1920 No. 6 

EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH IN THE PRACTICAL ARTS' 

FREDERICK G. BONSER 
Teachers College, Columbia University 

In the practical arts, as in other subjects, there are two distinct 
although closely related forms of research work. One of these is that 
form of investigation by which new truth is discovered, research by 
which the sum of knowledge is increased. This iy\>G of research is not 
primarily concerned with the immediate uses which can be made of 
what is discovered. To be sure, there is usually the presumption that 
whatever is found will be of some value in relationship to life. But in 
such research the worker goes forward to the end of his quest with an 
immediate interest in the truth as it reveals itself, whatever may be 
its value. 

The other form of research has to do with the discovery of relation- 
ships between life needs and means for meeting these needs, and with 
the selection and adaptation of known materials to satisfy these needs. 
It is the function of this form of investigation to select from the con- 
tributions of the first type those elements and results which are of 
service to life and to make these available for the education of the 
masses. This kind of research we may call professional or educational 
as distinguished from that which is commonly known as academic. In 
an institution which has large nimibers of advanced students directly 
interested in some form of educational leadership pro\dsion should be 
made for both forms of research. My purpose here, however, is to 
consider educational research alone. 

' Summary of an address given at the Alumni Conference of Teachers College, Februarj' 
20, 1920. 



242 TIIK JOUTINAL OP HOME ECONOMICS |June 

We may treat the matter from two points of view: first, that of re- 
search as a method of education, and, second, that of the practical 
values resulting from such research. 

One of the largest purposes of education is to develop the inquiring 
attitude of mind. Research provides means for this and stimulates 
growth in the student. This method of study focuses the mind upon a 
problem the solution of which requires the actual use of the scientific 
method. It requires the setting up of a definite aim, planning the 
procedure in carrying forward the work to realize this aim, executing 
the plan in its details, and judging or testing results throughout the 
procedure until the final realization of the aim is accomplished. It 
requires the application of much from several sources, and tests one's 
knowledge of principles and his capacity to apply them. It reveals any 
inadequacies of exact knowledge or methods of work and provides a 
compelling motive for removing any deficiencies by selective and inten- 
sive study. 

Such work prevents the development of a dogmatic or self-sufTicient 
attitude and contributes directly in making for genuinely scientific 
open-mindedness. This attitude of inquiry and open-mindedness is 
most essential in good teaching or supervisory work. It is the only 
attitude by which work can be kept from becoming formal and mechan- 
ical. Research is the only method which will most helpfully stimulate 
inquiry and growth in the mind of the student. It develops the explora- 
tory impulse and stimulates creative activity, providing a means for 
both its expression and its satisfaction. 

Research of this kind by the advanced student is a direct preparation 
under guidance for the kinds of organization and use of materials re- 
quired in positions in a field developing as rapidly as are all of the prac- 
tical arts. Fortunately, the practical arts subjects have not become 
very extensively formalized. New materials are added from the results 
of researches by specialists with great frequency, and constant read- 
justments in teaching and in the organization of work are necessary. 
The training in method which this kind of research affords is impor- 
tant and valuable in both teaching and supervisory positions, whether 
in schools or in institutions which strive to make the most effective 
applications of whatever is discovered in the fields of related technical 
research. 

As a general method of teaching and learning, this form of research 
may begin very early in the schools and progress with increasingly com- 



1920] EDUCATIONAL HESEARCH IN THE PRACTICAL ARTS 243 

plex and difficult problems as we advance from elementary education 
to college and university stages. It is the project method of instruc- 
tion in a somewhat special form. In the graduate school, the projects, 
to be of most value, should include elements of adaptation and relation- 
ship which are new, which are unknown to anyone. This is the justifi- 
cation of the term research for the work as applied to the projects 
appropriate to challenge the endeavors of advanced students. These 
new elements which are found are not something which will add to the 
sum of technical knowledge within a given field, but they will add to 
our knowledge of relationships and to means of using more effectively 
that which makes up some part of the technical field. In the periods 
of elementary, secondary, and early college education the projects are 
the means by which the known facts, principles, and technique of the 
special fields are acquired. In advanced educational research the pro- 
jects are the means for adapting these bodies of knowledge and tech- 
nique to teaching or other practical applications by developing new or 
more effective methods of their organization and usage. 

Practically considered, such workers make the contributions of 
specialists available for the masses. Taken altogether, there is an 
immense amount of material in the fields of household, industrial, and 
fine arts of very great importance to the well-being of all, but in such 
a technical form that it can not be used. There are literally hundreds 
of problems in the adaptation and formulation of such material in 
simple, practical applications to the needs of everyday life. 

To do this work, thorough scholarship in the given technical field is 
necessary. But coupled with this scholarship there is also required 
a thorough knowledge of educational principles and a sense of the 
needs of the masses. If in those who have some measure of the passion 
for scholarship we may also develop as great a passion for service we 
shall have the type of worker who can contribute richly by this form of 
educational research. 

All we can hope to do in this limited time is to indicate the meaning 
of the kind of research of which we are thinking by several illustrations 
which suggest the variety of possible problems. In general, these 
illustrations center about a few general types of problems. These are: 
the organization of curricula; the adaptation of technical materials to 
school usage and popular usage; the development of special methods 
of teaching; the working out of problems in equipment for definite 
purposes; the organization of relationships between technical subject 



244 TiiE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONomcs Qune 

matter and other fields or subjects; and the adaptation of teaching 
materials and methods in regular schools to special types of schools — 
part-time, evening, or other forms. 

To illustrate possibilities, the following problems are offered as sug- 
gestive: 

The use of excursions in the study of foods and clothing in elementary 
and high schools. 

The use of museum materials and pictures in teaching the household 
arts. 

The organization of household arts courses for junior high schools. 

How to carry the influence of school instruction in the practical arts 
into the homes of the students. 

The organization in content and method for short courses in house- 
hold arts for housewives in country or city. 

The practical arithmetic of foods — purchasing, preparing, and using. 

The practical arithmetic of cloth'ng and of furnishings. 

Practical problems in design as related to studies in house furnishings, 
for upper grades and high schools. 

Finding out, by specific evidence, who gets the most bargains in half 
a dozen bargain sales. 

Considering the whole problem, economically, hygienically, and 
aesthetically, does it pay the housewife to bake her own bread? If she 
bakes her own bread, how does she get her pay? 

An annual or semi-annual digest with careful evaluations of govern- 
ment documents — federal, state, and municipal — on household arts 
subjects. 

The organization of definite projects, with all of the necessary mate- 
rial, on cleansing agencies, laundering, marketing, labor sa\dng de\aces, 
and kindred topics, for use in elementary schools, or high schools, or 
evening schools. 

History studies adapted to the elementary schools on such topics as 
hats, shoes, neckwear, gloves, coats, and others which these suggest. 

Industrial and commercial geography of certain specific foods, of 
textiles, of household china, of rugs, and of other household materials. 

The organization of informational material for vocational guidance 
purposes in the household arts and related fields. 

The possibilities of household arts pursuits for the avocational occu- 
pation of women in the professions. 

Problems and methods in supervising teachers of the practical arts. 



1920] EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH IN THE PRACTICAL ARTS 245 

The preparation of a score card for various phases of housekeeping. 

Experimentation in using the mothers of girls as assistants in teach- 
ing these girls the practical arts subjects. 

How exhibits of school work in the practical arts may be made a 
means of education in the studies themselves. 

A study of school equipment essential for teaching the several phases 
of practical arts in the best way. 

A study of the amount and distribution of the spare time of 100 
housewives with the plans of household routine followed by each, with 
deductions for principles of household management. 

The actual foods in variety and amount eaten by 100 seventh grade 
children in one week and the questions in dietetics and hygiene raised 
by the information gained. 

The clothing purchased and worn by 100 girls of the eighth grade 
for one year, and the deductions for studies in girls' clothing and budget 
problems. 

The development of standardized types of kitchens as to size and 
equipment in houses of various types together with an organization of 
this material for teaching purposes. 

A study of the actual kinds and amounts of hand sewing done in 
several hundred homes as a basis for the selection of projects in hand 
sewing for a course in vocational homemaking. 

A study in food purchasing through the observation of a thousand 
individual illustrations of purchasing, and the making of a course for 
teaching the elements of marketing for which the investigation reveals 
needs. 

By close cooperation between the technical departments and the gen- 
eral departments of schools of education, it should be possible to direct 
the work of advanced students in many such problems with the hope of 
substantial results. Needs for such work are widespread and intense. 
Our institution realizes the call and it recognizes its obligation. To this 
call it now plans to respond with definite pro\dsion for conducting 
educational research studies in practical arts and making their results 
available. 



246 THE JOURNAL OF HOIfE ECONOMICS [JuTK 

FOOD WORK LV THE SINGLE PERIOD 

STELLA U. HUDBF.LL 
Entlewocd Bith School, Chicago 

We began single period food work in the autumn of 1918 when there 
was special need for food conservation as a war measure. Our prin- 
cipal, Mr. James E. Armstrong, felt that it should be possible for every 
girl in high school to take the work, if she wished to do so. 

The classes were therefore all organized for one school period a day, 
each class having an enrollment of 32 to 35. The task seemed at first 
almost an impossible one, as the time allowed for actual work was not 
more than forty minutes. It was at once seen that for each girl in so 
large a class to measure materials, prepare dishes, cook and serve them, 
and leave utensils, tables, and towels in proper condition would result 
only in failure. The first lessons were therefore given as demonstra- 
tions by the teacher, but the girls were all anxious to work and this 
plan was abandoned. The next step was to have certain groups alter- 
nate in demonstrating the lesson under the teacher's direction. This 
plan was soon discarded, as it left too many in the unemployed class. 
The work finally evolved itself in this manner. The classes were all 
divided into groups of four or five, called families. One girl was either 
elected or appointed to act as manager of the group. It was her duty 
to see that work was fairly distributed in her family and that the same 
kind of task was not done twice in succession by the same girls. She 
saw to it that they left tables and drawers in proper order and that 
towels and dish cloths were cared for. 

During the recitation period on the day preceding the laboratory 
work the lesson for the next day was very carefully discussed. The 
recipes were all for family amounts and the girls thus had practical and 
valuable experience in preparing dishes such as would be used at the 
home table. The grocery bills were no larger than when the indi\ddual 
recipes using such amounts as a tablespoon of sugar and a teaspoon of 
egg were used. 

The girls learned to handle larger quantities of materials and to be 
more careful in the work, as they understood that any inaccuracy 
would entail a larger loss and would also bring down upon themselves 
the reproaches of the rest of the group, who were expecting to enjoy the 
fruits of their labor. They came into class with eagerness and prompt- 



1920] FOOD WORK IN THE SINGLE PERIOD 247 

ness as they knew time was limited and must be improved to the utmost, 
if their product was to be finished. There was no dawdling over work 
and no waste of time in washing unnecessary dishes. They learned to 
save dishes as well as time, to keep dishes washed as they used them, and 
to sit down to eat with all dishes washed and put away, except the ones 
used for serving. 

They learned cooperation with others, a lesson that is worth much. 
They did good team work in order to get through. During the year 
and a half in which we had only one period for all our food work, there 
were not more than two complaints about lack of harmony in any 
groups. These slight dilTerences were easily adjusted. The girls 
grouped themselves as they liked and thus formed congenial "families." 

Each semester the girls who have had one year's previous training 
in the high school specialize on menu making and meal serving. There 
is always one class doing this work, usually serving a meal once a week. 
On the other laboratory day, if they are not getting ready for a luncheon 
the next day, they prepare some new dish which they will again make 
as a part of some subsequent luncheon or meal. In addition to this 
class, the girls who are taking the second semester of the first year also 
do some meal work, as many of them cannot take work the second year. 

During a part of the time there were two or three student helpers, 
who gave three hours a week to assisting in the laboratory. They 
received for this extra credit and were of much service in placing sup- 
plies for the laboratory work, and doing similar tasks. With the classes 
serving luncheons the menus were discussed, as to their food value, 
cost, and suitabiUty to one hour work, at a previous recitation. Pre- 
liminary work was done the day before the luncheon, and as far as pos- 
sible such things as cookies, cake, salad dressing, were made and put 
away for the next day. 

The hour preceding a luncheon the student helper, or member of the 
class, placed all supplies in readiness, filled tea-kettles with water to 
heat, and saw to it that everything was arranged for the greatest effi- 
ciency when the class came in. The classes which were doing most of 
the meal work were always placed at the hour preceding the noon 
intermission. They thus had their meal at the proper hour, and if any 
were a little more elaborate than usual a few minutes might be used 
from the luncheon period for washing extra dishes or doing some last 
things. The fireless cooker was used frequently, some members of 
the class coming in before school in the morning and placing food in the 



248 THE JOITRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

cooker. The girls learned the value of planning ahead even the small 
details, and thus saw the failure and ineflkicncy of last minute ordering 
and lack of forethought. 

The following were two of the menus which were served: 

Salmon and celery salad, mashed jxitatoes, baking powder biscuit 
and butter, jelly, canned pears and cookies. 

Beef loaf, boiled potatoes and brown gravy, cabbage salad, tea biscuit 
and butter, canned peaches and loaf cake. 

The jelly and canned fruit were put up by the girls last autumn. 
The beef loaf mixture was prepared by two of the student helpers and 
made into small loaves, one for each family, and was ready for the 
oven when the class came in. Such a dish as this was sometimes pre- 
pared by some member of a preceding class, and others were able to 
observe the work in addition to their own regular lesson. 

The cost of this menu was 17 cents for each girl. They usually served 
themselves, but at this luncheon three guests were served in addition. 
For each of these meals they were allowed ten minutes of extra time from 
the noon intermission, to wash the last dishes. 

In the limited time allowed they learned to turn off work and accom- 
plish certain things in a set time. The luncheons or meals were always 
discussed afterward. Criticisms were made by members of groups and 
certain improvements suggested in planning for next time. 

The one hour period demands much careful thought and planning by 
the teacher and there must be a sympathetic and helpful spirit to bring 
out the cooperation of the class so that they will be eager to respond. 

The longer periods are easier, as there is not the constant thought of 
time to make one anxious and there are many things w'hich can not be 
done in the one hour, but, with good organization, careful planning, 
and responsiveness on the part of the class, a great deal may be accom- 
phshed in the one hour period. 



1920] HOME ECONOMICS COXIRSES IN COLLEGES 249 

A COMPARATIVE STUDY OF HOME ECONOMICS COURSES 
IN COLLEGES 

JEAN KRireCER 
University of Wisconsin 

This year, the curriculum committee of the home economics depart- 
ment of the University of Wisconsin was requested to measure its own 
department with that of other institutions. Because of the shortness 
of the time allotted it was necessary to limit the comparison to a few 
schools representative of different sections of the country. For the 
same reason, information had to be secured from correspondence and 
from the latest catalogues obtainable, instead of from personal visits 
and conferences which, of course, would have been much more satisfac- 
tory. The accompanying charts were compiled from the data secured. 
Even taking into consideration all the possibilities of error due to such 
a method of study, certain tendencies are apparent. 

The committee wished to find out, among other things, what the uni- 
formity of curricula in various departments of accepted college standing 
might be. In order to reach a basis of comparison, material was first 
classified according to types of schools, and then according to majors. 
The general, food, textile, and vocational education majors were selected 
as those which are offered by most departments. The courses outlined 
in the catalogues for these majors were assorted according to their na- 
ture. For instance, requirements in English, in language, in history, 
in art, were classified as "general;" requirements in chemistry, in phys- 
ics, in bacteriology, as "science;" and the work in food, in clothing, in 
shelter, in child care, as "home economics." By calculating the credit 
value of each division, and translating these into percentages of the 
total number of credits required for graduation, the following percentages 
are made directly comparable : 

1. Percentage of time given to general, science, and home economics 
subjects. 

2. Percentage of time given to electives. 

3. Proportion of non-technical to technical subjects. 

4. Proportion of required subjects to electives. 

As can readily be seen, it is a difficult matter to draw definite conclu- 
sions from the accompanying charts. With such a wide variance of 
requirements existing among the different colleges and majors, very 



250 THE JOtniNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Junc 

little emphasis may be placed on the averages shown by the dotted lines. 
They merely indicate a tendency. 

A few generalities are possible. The state agricultural schools, for 
instance, appear to require more non-technical work in the food and 
textile majors than do the universities and endowed schools studied. 
They also require a larger percentage of general subject matter in the 
general major than the average for that division. This emphasis is 
accomplished at the expense of clectives and, in the case of the general 
major, science is curtailed. In the vocational education major, more 
science than the average is required, slightly less general work, and fewer 
electives. 

In the universities, as a rule, a larger proportion of time is allowed 
for electives. These institutions require more science in the food major 
than the average indicated and in all majors, less time in home economics 
subjects. The reverse of this condition is true in the endowed schools, 
where the percentage of time given home economics is high, and that 
given electives and general subject matter is low. 

The outstanding feature of the accompanying charts is that each school 
seems to be a law unto itself. It is of interest to note, however, that in 
the food major — perhaps the most carefully organized major of all — • 
the averages for each division approach 25 per cent of the whole. That 
is, one fourth of the credits required for graduation must represent 
languages, English, economics; one fourth, science; one fourth, home 
economics; and one fourth, electives. Is this the very best division of 
time? If so, should it be the same for all majors? 

While there is no need for home economics courses everywhere to be 
identical, there is a definite need for greater uniformity than at present 
exists. This holds true in the context of basic home economics courses, 
as well as in the larger divisions of subject matter. Those who have had 
the responsibility of accrediting the home economics work done by a 
student in another institution realize the difficulties involved. Ten 
units of general chemistrj' from an accredited college are accepted with- 
out question, while five credits in a home economics subject may or may 
not fulfill the requirements of the department to which they are submitted. 

The difficulties of a transferring student are not, however, the vital 
issue. Home economics leaders, up to the present, have been con- 
cerned in proving the value of the work as an integral part in the higher 
education of women. Would not greater uniformity in requirements 
and context of courses all over the country strengthen still more what 
has already been accomplished? 



1920] 



HOME ECONOMICS COURSES IN COLLEGES 



251 



GENtRAL MAJOD 



■rtmu- NON^nCCMNlCAL 



nar« econOMtu 



MorCuuiuRAC 



OCMOOL^ AMD 



ci.ecrrvta 




FOOD MAJOR 




252 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[June 



TE.XT1LE: MAJOR 

TOTALDtQUIBtP 



TOTAL. NOW-TCOINICAI. 



HOTK eooMorvu 




0<X.LIL«C>9 




VtXATIONAL ELDUCATION MAJOC 

' TOXAl_ RE.Q<JIReO 



TOTAl. NOM-TtCMNlCA»_ 



IKX-lt CCONOniCS 




tutCTTves 



1920] THE HYGIENE OF CLOTHING 253 

THE HYGIENE OF CLOTHING 

ZELLA E. BIGELOW 
Special Assistant in Bcme Economics Education, Federal Board for Vocational Educaliom 

From the designer to the ultimate consumer everyone who deals 
with a garment will agree that certain essential things must be con- 
sidered in its selection. It must be suitable, durable, hygienic, and 
becoming. The teacher who deals with the subject of clothing is con- 
fronted with the problem of so presenting these factors that the con- 
sumer is trained to recognize and apply them in clothing herself and 
her family. 

The success of the instruction in suitability of clothing is measured 
by the extent to which good judgment and good taste are created and 
developed in the pupil. The responsibility of imparting to the student 
an appreciation of becomingness rests jointly with the teachers of 
drawing, design, and clothing construction. These three subjects 
deal with line, color, and proportion, the determining factors in an 
artistic and becoming garment. 

The hygiene of clothing is a subject which belongs to the teacher of 
physiology and hygiene, to the physical director, and to the teacher of 
textiles and clothing. It seems fair to say that in many clothing courses, 
with their emphasis on the construction of clothing, the hygienic phase 
has been neglected. Now that ready-made clothing is more and more 
meeting the needs of women and replacing garments made at home or 
by a dressmaker, the selection of clothing, as well as its construction, is 
being included in clothing courses, and in these new courses hygiene 
must be given the place and time due to its importance. 

The four most important factors which determine the hygienic value 
of a garment are: first, the inherent properties of the fiber itself; second, 
the properties of the woven material as affected by its composition, 
weight, weave, finish, and color; third, the properties of the garment as 
affected by its construction; and, fourth, those factors which depend 
upon the wearer — upon the age, occupation, and environment. 

PROPERTIES OF FIBERS 

From the standpoint of clothing, the following properties of textile 
fibers are important for the reasons given : 



254 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS IjunC 

AhsorpUon. Clothing worn next the body must take care of the 
secretions of the sweat glands and the sebaceous glands. 

Evaporation. The moisture absorbed by garments worn next the 
skin should not be retained but should be eliminated nearly as fast as 
it is formed. Moisture retained in a garment makes it feel cold and 
damp and forms a heat conducting layer which may carry heat from 
the body, thus causing a dangerous lowering of temperature. On the 
other hand too rapid evaporation may also cause a chill. 

Heal conductivity. One function of clothing is to help maintain the 
body at a constant temperature. It should not conduct heat too 
rapidly away from the body, nor hinder too much the radiation of body 
heat. 

Elasticity. This is important for comfort and health. Freedom of 
motion must be permitted. 

Tensile strength. The fineness to which a fiber can be spun depends 
partly upon its tensile strength. Durability in relation to the weight 
and fineness of material therefore depends upon this property. 

Weight. Heavy clothing impedes free movement of the body, and 
is a burden. The weight is often caused by material which is so close 
and boardlike in texture as to be unhygienic from other standpoints 
as well. 

Cleanliness. The health of the wearer and the care of the garment 
are affected by the cleanliness of the fiber. Clothing should be capable 
of easy and thorough cleansing. There is one species of louse, Pediculus 
vestimenti, which lives on the human body and breeds in soiled clothing. 

Affinity for dyes is important only in outer clothing, since most cloth- 
ing worn next the skin is white. For outer clothing, however, this 
property must be considered in relation to attractiveness, care, cost, and 
length of wear. Stain removal is a problem which hinges upon the 
affinity of the fibers for dyes. 

Luster is a factor in cleanliness, attractiveness, and becomingness. 
Lustrous materials are inclined to shed dust because the fibers of which 
they are made are smooth. 

Shrinking or Jelling. If the air spaces in a material are closed by 
shrinking or felting, its heat conductivity is changed and its hygienic 
value is thereby affected. The care of a garment and its laundering 
are more difficult when it possesses this quality. 

Cost of production, manufacture, and transportation is a factor in 
economy. 



1920] 



THE HYGIENE OF CLOTHING 



255 



The use of the following table is a device by which a comparison 
of the hygienic value of the four principal fibers may be roughly set 
forth. The + and — signs are used to indicate the possession of a 
property to a desirable or undesirable degree, respectively. It must be 
remembered that this is a comparison of the fibers only, and that 
these properties may be modified by difference in weaves. 









Comparison of proper lies of fibers 












1 

< 


1 






> 




1 


1 

i 


B 


is 


8 


Wool 

Silk 

Cotton . . . 
Linen 


+ 
+ 


+ 
+ 

+ 


+ 

+ 

_ 


+ 
+ 


+ 


+ 

+ 
+ 


+ 
4- 


+ 
+ 
+ 


+ 
+ 


+ 
+ 
+ 
+ 


+ 



' Cleanliness as listed here has a double significance. Cotton has very few natural impu- 
rities; though it collects dirt quickly it is easily laundered. Linen gives up its dirt easily, 
while wool is difficult to clean. Silk sheds dust, but demands careful handling in 
cleaning. 

A study of the table will show which fibers have the most hygienic 
properties and therefore might be expected to make the most healthful 
clothing. Taking two fibers, such as wool and cotton or wool and silk 
and cancelling the + and — signs will show how the possession and lack 
of a given property offset each other and render a union of the two 
fibers very desirable. 

PROPERTIES OF MATERIAL 

The study of the fibers should be followed by a consideration of the 
hygienic properties of materials. All other factors being equal, mate- 
rials made from the four fibers would exactly partake of the properties 
inherent in the fibers themselves but, since materials differ in composi- 
tion, weight, weave, finish, and color, it is necessary to study the effects 
of each of these. 

Composilion. A combination of fibers in a material is very desirable, 
not only from the standpoint of health, but of cost as well. Wool and 
cotton, wool and silk, silk and cotton, and silk and linen are excellent 
combinations because they combine and offset desirable and undesirable 
qualities, as is shown by the table. 



256 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOICICS Ij^nc 

Weight. The weight of the material should be considered with a 
view to its tise. A motor coat may be quite heavy when the same 
weight worn for sports or walking would be a burden. Weight also 
governs the amount of material to be used in a garment. A voluminous 
skirt of heavy weight material would contribute considerably to fatigue 
on the part of the wearer. Weight impedes movement and does not 
necessarily imply warmth. 

Weave. The weave must afTord ventilation and the correct amount 
of heat conduction. An open weave with air held in its meshes, is a 
poor heat conductor. A fiber such as cotton or linen, each of which 
is a good conductor of heat and allows too rapid evaporation, has these 
bad qualities offset by an open weave. Silk, which loses moisture 
rapidly, should be of an open mesh for the same reason when worn 
ne.xt the skin. Too open a mesh allows heat loss by convection. This 
explains why a sweater is not warm on a windy day and shows how the 
use of a garment should determine its weave. 

Finish. The finish of cloth affects its hygienic properties. A napped 
cotton material has a disadvantage in its inflammability, but an advan- 
tage in the warmth imparted to it by the air enmeshed in the nap. 
Highly bleached, sized, or weighted fabrics lose some of the most valu- 
able properties of the fibers in the processes they undergo in being 
converted into cloth. The strength of the fiber, particularly, is im- 
paired, as in the case of bleached linen and weighted silk. A smooth, 
shiny fabric like silk or linen sheds dust better than does the lusterless 
wool or cotton. 

Waterproofing is one of the valuable finishes from a hygienic stand- 
point. Waterproof material should be chosen for outside garments 
used for protection against rain but not for any other purpose, since its 
very impervicusness becomes a disadvantage. Fireproofing is another 
finish for materials. While fireproofed materials are not in common 
use for clothing, they can be procured and have some practical value. 

Color. When we think of color in relation to clothes we think of its 
becomingness, but color has another important, if less obvious, function 
as regards clothing. It has the power of concentrating, absorbing, or 
reflecting the sun's rays, thus affecting the temperature of the body. 
This is of especial importance in hot climates. Some colors are warm 
while others are cool. White and green afford protection from the 
sun's rays, while red, orange, and black seem to concentrate them. 



1920] THE HYGIE>fE OF CLOTHING 257 

Orange is a valuable color for a lining, however, because it cuts off 
certain light rays which have a harmful effect upon the body. Such a 
precaution is not necessary in a temperate climate but is of great 
importance in the tropics. There is another phase of the question of 
color which is important and which offers a possible danger to guard 
against. Some dyes are actually poisonous, as is instanced by cases 
where the wearing of black stockings or dyed shoes has caused infec- 
tions. Such injurious dyes are more frequently found in cheap articles 
than in those of better quality. 

PROPERTIES OF THE GARMENT 

The garment itself is hygienic or unhygienic, depending upon its 
design and fit. 

Design. The weight of the garment should be evenly distributed 
and should fall on the proper supports, the shoulders. For this purpose 
the value of the one-piece garment is obvious. There should be no re- 
striction of movement, either at the shoulders, elbows, waist, neck, or 
ankles. The garment should allow entire freedom of motion and should 
be so simple that the wearer is unconscious of it. 

Fit. The fit of the garment must be neither so tight that it restricts 
movement, so loose that it is unwieldy, nor so poor that it puts a strain 
on any part of the body. 

Manufacture. There is a factor that pertains to the choice of a ready- 
made garment, which cannot be ignored by the conscientious consumer — 
the conditions under which the garment was made. Were they healthful? 
Did the persons, probably women, who made the garment, labor under 
conditions that the wearer would be willing to endure? The purchaser 
should be acquainted with these conditions in order to protect the 
health and comfort of the great numbers of women workers on ready- 
to-wear clothing. 

THE WEARER 

The fourth consideration in the selection of clothing, keeping in mind 
its hygienic value, is the wearer. Age, health, occupation, and environ- 
ment must control the choice of garments. 

Age and health. Young children have a larger body surface in pro- 
portion to their weight than adults, and consequently a greater loss of 



258 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS (June 

heat. They are more active than most adults, and create more heat by 
exercise. Older people and invalids, for difTerent reasons, have practi- 
cally the same needs as the very young, and should wear wool or such 
combinations of wool with other fibres as will keep them warm and dry. 

Occupation and environmenl. A sedentary and an active occupation 
make dilTercnt demands. Indoor and outdoor work require dillerent 
kinds of clothing. Shelter and exposure during work or going to work 
need consideration. An occupation which requires muscular activity 
calls for under clothing with greater power of absorption than does a 
sedentary occupation. Heating facilities in office or home and the 
humidity of the atmosphere affect the choice of clothing. In a humid 
atmosphere evaporation of moisture from the body is slow and must 
not be further decreased by an unwise choice of clothing. In a dry 
atmosphere evaporation is rapid and clothing that retards evaporation 
should be selected. These same things are applicable to the question 
of the relation of climate to clothing. 

It will be seen that few absolute statements can be made regarding 
any one fiber, material, or garment for all wearers, since all the factors 
are interdependent. After studying these factors, however, it is pos- 
sible to make application of them to any particular case and in that 
way to intelligently select a hygienic wardrobe. 



PERSONAL QUERIES ON HOME ECONOMICS WORK' 

ROGER L. TOTTEN 
Superintendent of Schools, Harrington, Delauare 

SOCIOLOGICALLY CONSIDERED 

How does vocational home economics now function in my school, 
directly or indirectly, in teaching how to bring up children better? 
How can I make it more generally useful in that direction? 

' A list of questions submitted to recall the general values in home economics education, 
and to show what results may be in the mind of superintendents as desirable. 

Summary of an address and discussion at a meeting of the Home Economics Instructors 
of the State of Delaware, March, 1920. 



1920] PERSONAL QUERIES ON HOME ECONOMICS WORK 259 

ECONOMICALLY CONSIDERED 

Am I building upon existing economic foundations, or am I pre- 
supposing different ones? 

Am I teaching each girl how to derive the maximum use primarily 
from that equipment which will be hers to use? 

Am I insisting upon a material condition which is desirable but humanly 
impossible in the future homes of any students? 

Am I teaching how to raise the standard of living by true economy, 
leading to better equipment and conditions? 

PEDAGOGICALLY CONSIDERED 

Do I give opportunity and aid in developing basic manipulative skills? 

Does my laboratory work develop basic skills? 

Am I maintaining a just balance between skills, related technical 
knowledge, and related cultural knowledge? 

Is technical knowledge accompanied by or preceded by related skills? 

Do I build on home apprenticeship and undirected experience in 
developing skills, or do I ignore them? 

Do I capitalize the strongest incentives, discover the most appealing 
motivation, and arrange the work accordingly? 

Do I make effective use of the home as a cooperative agency? 

Do I use "home projects" to the best advantage? 

Does my course actually prepare for immediate practice of the voca- 
tion, without further apprenticeship of any sort? Can I make it do so? 

SOCIALLY AND CULTURALLY CONSIDERED 

Do I admit opposition between "cultural" and "vocational" educa- 
tion? If not, do I see to it that all elements of a liberal education are 
included in my course? 

Do I use cooperative projects for their social value? 

Is my course really developing "taste"? 

Am I using pictures, discussions, readings, and other agencies to 
make the home a central power plant from which social energy and 
increase of culture emanate? 

Am I developing high ideals of homemaking and of character ? 

Is my course producing enriched personalities, capable of enriching 
others? 



260 TIIK JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS |June 

SHOP METHODS IN THK SEWIXG LABORATORY: AX 
EXPERIMENT 

MILLICENT M. COSS 
Director of Clothing and TexiUes, Slate Normal School, Framinfham, Xfastachusetti. 

The present emphasis on vocational training has made many home 
economics teachers stop and think, "How can we make our teaching of 
the household arts function most fully? What suggestions can we 
gain from business methods?" 

Obviously a business organization must prove of economic value or it 
fails to succeed, ^\^len we had seen, through direct contact, the work- 
ing organization of a shop for making clothing, we asked ourselves the 
question, What are the elements of a shop that turns out similar pro- 
ducts to those of our home economics classes, which can be trans- 
ferred or adapted to our school life? 

Three weeks of the term remained for a class of thirty senior students 
in dressmaking. Throughout the three-year course all of the products 
of the class had been planned for and executed by the students for 
themselves; the materials had been bought by them and the completed 
articles used by them. Our desire now was to plan a project which 
should be stimulating, impersonal, and organized on a trade basis 
with necessary class-room modifications. 

Here is the story of our experiment. 

The teacher became the director of a large work room where dresses 
with indi\'iduality were made for girls from two to fourteen years of 
age. The class was di\'ided into working units with a forewoman and 
three assistants in each group. The forewoman was responsible to the 
director for the making of a child's gingham dress with the greatest 
speed compatible with good workmanship. The director bought the 
materials at wholesale, planned the dress with the forewoman and 
supervised her cutting of it by a paper pattern. The forewoman gave 
out the material to her assistants, telling them what to do; managed 
the work so that there should be no loss of time through idleness; con- 
sulted with the director if any question arose as to design or method; 
kept an accurate account of all the materials used, with their cost; 
kept the time sheet of her group, each worker reporting to her at the 
class period any "overtime." 



1920] 



SHOP METHODS IN THE SEWING LABORATORY 



261 



Each student was rated, potentially, at a fixed wage. A forewoman's 
rating was $18 per week, an assistant's was $15. Overtime was paid for 
at the same rate as class time. There were six three-hour periods and 
two one-hour periods of class time each week. 

When one dress was so nearly finished that there was not enough 
work on it to keep the group occupied, a different forewoman was 
selected from the group, a second dress planned and cut and a new 
record kept, gi-ving to each student the additional problem of keeping 
separate the time spent on the first dress and on the second. When 
there remained but two lessons the girls were urged to "speed up" as the 
shop was closing for vacation and no unfinished work should be left 
and more "overtime" was cheerfully given. 

The following is a sample order sheet. 

The F. X. S. Children's Shop 



Age 6 years 

Date of Sale, January 21, 1919 



Model No. 1500 
Date of order, January 5, 1919 

Workers: Miss Forewoman 

Misses .Assistants 

Article; Child's Gingham Dress, green and white check with plain green trimming. 
Cost: 



Checked Gingham . 
Plain Gingham . . . . 

Edging 

Buttohs 

Snaps 

Thread No. 90. . . . 
Basting thread . . . . 



Amount 



2 yds. 

1yd. 

4 yds. 

8 

7 

1 spool 

i spool 



Cost 



so. 50 
.30 
.16J 
.12 
.03 
.05 
.03 



Hours at $0,285 Hours it t0.42S 



Cost of material 

Cost of labor 

Total cost of garment. 

Selling price 

Profit on materials . . . . 



$ 1.20 
9.74 
10.94 
4.00 
2.80 



At the end of three weeks, there were on hand sixteen well-made, 
exceedingly attractive children's dresses. A price, allowing a profit, 
was then fixed on each garment and the students, who were given the 



262 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [JunC 

first opportunity to buy, purchased several of the dresses. To dispose 
of the remainder, one comer of the room was arranged as a " Children's 
Shop" at the senii-annual exhibition of the Clothing and Textiles De- 
partment which was held at this time, and the dresses were placed on 
sale. It proved to be the most popular part of the exhibition. 

It will be noticed that the cost of materials was low, due to wholesale 
buying; that the selling price does not take into account the cost of 
labor, because no actual wages were paid, but that the total cost includ- 
ing labor was estimated. This seemed legitimate since our project was 
primarily educational. It was voted by the class that the profits should 
be used to buy "luxuries" in the equipment of the department. 

One of the satisfying results of the whole experiment was the splendid 
spirit manifested throughout. The forewomen, who were in the first 
place chosen on a scholarship basis, showed for the most part initiative, 
executive ability, accuracy, and good judgment. The assistants did 
willingly such parts of the work as were assigned to them. Had there 
been sufficient time, the various members of the groups would have 
served as forewomen, in turn, in order to test the executive ability of 
each, but a longer experiment might possibly have resulted in loss of 
interest. 

By this e-xperiment we tested to our satisfaction a new method of 
approach in our teaching of dressmaking: we learned that the students 
were capable of good "team work;" that their interest can be main- 
tained when the product is not for themselves. We demonstrated the 
importance of the "time element" in reckoning the cost of good work- 
manship. We taught the students, in a realistic way, how to apply 
their knowledge of sewing to the making of attractive but inexpensive 
dresses for children — an important part of their training whether their 
vocation be teaching or homemaking. 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

PUBLIC KITCHENS' 

It has been taken for granted that the food of the moderate income 
family will be prepared at home. In rural regions this must be the case 
because dwellings are too far apart to allow of service from outside; in 
villages, cooked food would be confined to what is furnished by bakeries, 
but in cities it is possible for the home table to be served with hot meals 
cooked in some central place. Restaurants have always furnished such 
service in a small way, but to serve hot meals on a large scale to families 
who will pay but a small advance over the cost of materials requires 
special cooperation and management. The Public Kitchen, much 
discussed, often tried, has special problems which have not yet been 
solved in this country. 

Public kitchens in Europe. All European countries have their special 
type of self-supporting public kitchen in the large cities, where standard 
dishes are sold at very near cost prices to be eaten on the premises or 
carried home. Such kitchens became of great importance during the 
late war when food was to be conserved and when wives and mothers 
were away from home in war work and their time and energy were not 
available for home buying and cooking. Sheer necessity was back of 
the public kitchen in all of the large foreign cities; those already existing 
increased their equipment, and new ones were started, financed by 
public funds. It has always been the case in Europe that, when food is 
scarce and high, as in time of war or other great calamity, and the 
home as a manufactory of cooked food breaks down, there is seen a 
tendency toward mass feeding for the civilian population as well as for 
the army, and for similar reasons. Food can be purchased more cheaply 
in wholesale quantities and there is the least possible waste in the prepara- 
tion of the food, it being directed by trained people. 

English public kitchens in war time. In London in 1917 pubHc kitch- 
ens were started on a large scale. In 1918 one thousand municipal 
kitchens were in operation in England. 

' Part of a chapter in Successful Family Life on the Moderate Income. By Mary Hinman 
Abel. J. B. Lippincott Company, Philadelphia (forthcoming). 

263 



264 Tiir. JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS (June 

The following calculations of savings for a million families were made 
on the basis of a Lonilon kitchen which supplied daily 15(J families, or 
on an average 450 to 500 individuals' The cost of fuel in the univer- 
sally used form of gas by the slot system was found to average two 
shillings per week per family, while gas fuel used in the public kitchen 
averaged two pence per family for the same amount of cooking. The 
saving was somewhat less if comparison is made with coal. A saving in 
food was efTected, first, by buying at wholesale by trained and experi- 
enced people who knew how to take advantage of the market and were 
informed twenty-four hours in advance as to what foods were expected 
to come into the city. The cost of "many thousand tons of food" wais 
thus saved. Second, by saving the waste that goes on in private kitch- 
ens where many small utensils are in use to which particles of food 
adhere in the processes of cooking. This waste was calculated as 
amounting to J to J ounces per person per day, or 7000 tons yearly for 
a million families in cereals alone, while 15 per cent loss in meat was 
calculated in private families as compared with better methods of cook- 
ing and serving in the public kitchen. 

Such computations based on actual experience on a large scale are 
very valuable and can be utilized in any time of need when saving must 
be effected for large numbers. 

Public kitchens in the United States. Circumstances have not required 
mass feeding on a large scale in this country although during the war 
educational kitchens, for demonstration of food conservation, and can- 
ning and drying kitchens were used in large numbers. 

The type of public kitchen which is of special interest to the woman 
of the household is that which sells cooked food for home use; in its 
perfected form it delivers at the home the entire meal. Urged by the 
scarcity of household service, groups of householders have in a number 
of instances, attempted to start such kitchens, not for the poor, as in 
Europe, but for the well-to-do. They are generally called Community 
Kitchens. 

In the report^ of a valuable study, made by the Woman's Committee 
of the Council of National Defense, in 1918, on all kinds of public kitch- 
ens, this type was described with the fmal conclusion as follows: 

« Report made by Mrs. Earl, June, 1917. 

• Agencies for the Sale of Cooked Foods without Profit. A survey of their development 
with particular reference to their social and economic effect. Government Printing Office, 
Washington, D. C. 



1920] PUBLIC KITCHENS 265 

" In America there is at present nothing encouraging to the enthusiast 
on communal cooking. The causes for failure in the past .... 
(are) practically the same as those for the failure of most cooperative 
enterprises in this country — ^the unwillingness of Americans to submit 
long to the restraints which cooperation requires; and a lack of leaders 
who combine adequate ability in planning, buying, cooking, and serving 
food with general administrative experience." 

It must be acknowledged that the considerable number of community 
kitchens run on the cooperative basis that have been started in this 
country in the last thirty years have had an interesting but in most 
cases a brief history. The most enduring was also the earliest, the 
New England Kitchen, started in 1890 in Boston, "to determine the 
successful conditions of preparing by scientific methods from the cheaper 
food materials nutritious and palatable dishes which should find a ready 
demand at paying prices." It had ample funds for experiment and the 
best of scientific backing, but its success as a business was determined 
not by the market furnished by households but by the demand of schools. 
Since 1917 it has furnished lunches to the public schools of Boston 
under the management of the Woman's Industrial and Educational 
Union. 

The future of the community kitchen. Notwithstanding the negative 
results in former experiments there are good reasons for believing that 
certain changes which have come about in recent years will yet enable a 
good type of community kitchen to succeed. Those changes are: 

First, the high price and scarcity of hired labor in the individual 
household. 

Second, the high price of food which places emphasis on the saving 
to be effected by wholesale buying in the hands of trained and experi- 
enced people. 

Third, the improvement in team work and the development of leader- 
ship among women, largely through their experience in war work. 

Fourth, a growing inteUigence as to the importance of well chosen 
and well cooked food and a greater value put on the work of trained 
dietitians and cooks such as would preside over such kitchens. 

Fifth, the perfecting of insulated containers for hot delivery and also 
rapid automobile service. Neither of these were available for the 
earUer type of community kitchen. 

Here would seem to be the foundations for a successful business, but 
difliculties are also to be faced. 



266 THE JOURNAL OF HOicE ECONOMICS (June 

The chief difliculty is found in suiting the individual patron who 
can be allowed but limitetl choice as to his food, unless the price of 
service is to be greatly increased. It must be remembered that to 
gratify this desire for personal choice the restaurants and hotels offer 
a long menu card; to meet it in the family, the housewife makes a study 
of the likes and dislikes of its members. 

The second difficulty is in business management. Women are apt 
to undertake such work without sufficient training, and frequently do 
not call in the experienced person until matters have become desperate. 
Trained people must be employed from the first. 

The requirements for success would seem to be, in addition to the 
all-important fact that experienced people must be in command and 
be given full authority: 

First, sufficient capital to equip and also to sustain a kitchen for a 
long enough time to carry out the initial experiments in what must 
be recognized as a new field. 

Second, standard dishes and combinations must be perfected so as to 
meet the requirements of nutrition and of palatability for the average 
taste. 

Third, the tastes and requirements of the locality must be studied and 
met. This may be done gradually by encouraging suggestion and 
criticism of the meals served. 

Fourth, the probable number of patrons must be ascertained in some 
way as a basis for the business, and the price of meals must be such 
as will compete successfully with home cooking. To convince the 
housewife that she can afford the dinners served by the kitchen may 
require work on the part of the publicity committee in the way of cal- 
culating for her the cost of the home cooked dinner, giving proper value 
to the different factors of: food bought at retail prices; time used in 
buying as well as in preparing and serving the food ; fuel used ; and wear 
and tear on equipment. 

There may exist a great need of the Community Kitchen in any given 
locality and yet it will wait long for success unless it can convince the 
householder that it will give her a better value for her money than 
she can herself obtain by home methods. 

It is this fourth requirement, the study of the possible patron, which 
may prove to be the most important of all these factors in success, for 
it will show the managers of a community kitchen what is their real 
rival, not some boarding house, restaurant, or hotel, but the housewife 
herself. Until the value of the housewife's labor in buying and cook- 



1920] PUBLIC KITCHENS 267 

ing the food for the family is rightly estimated and until other ways of 
empl 'ving her time in lucrative work are provided, community kitchens 
may continue to fail, even though they have learned to furnish 
excellent food at reasonable prices, because enough patronage has not 
been found. 

The economic contribution of the housewife. In America the public in 
general has never seriously considered the economic value of the house- 
wife's contribution to the family welfare, except in the case of the poor. 
It is accepted that the man who earns the lower grades of income can 
bring in only enough for rent and the raw materials of living. The 
woman of the family must keep the house, care for the children, make, 
mend, and launder the clothes and cook the food. The money value of 
these services is her necessary contribution to the income, and its value 
has been estimated in the case of the working man's family at not less 
than $800 a year; without it the home of this grade cannot exist. That 
is, if the working man in question earns a thousand dollars a year, the 
wife's contribution may raise the actual family income to S1800. 

To the family whose income is S2000 to S3000, the contribution of 
the housewife in the form of services that have money value continues 
to be as necessary as in the case of the laborer's wife, for as the income 
rises, so also does the standard of living, and it cannot be compassed on 
the earnings of the m.an alone. Under the conditions and prices that 
prevail in 1920 the most feasible way for this woman to make her con- 
tribution is the same as in the case of the woman possessing the lower 
income, that is, through buying and managing for the household and in 
doing most of the work. She says she cannot afford any form of public 
cooking whose charges are much beyond the price of raw materials, 
because she can "work in" the buying of the food and the cooking of 
the dinner along with her other duties. 

If the size of her family or the state of her health forbids the doing 
of all her work she is less apt to turn to a Cooked Food Service for relief 
than to employ a woman by the day for laundry and cleaning. 

The famiUes whose incomes are $3000 to $4000 and upward are those 
most apt to use the community kitchen. 

Families of five living on this grade of income are able to employ the 
resident maid, whose complete cost is now nearly $1000 a year, but 
frequently this maid cannot be found and in the emergencies that arise 
is the chance of the community kitchen. The kitchen will also be in 
demand to furnish the main meal of the day for the smaller family 
groups that are doing Hght housekeeping. 



268 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Junc 

Only by trial will it be ascertained whether the patronage from the 
above groups will be sufficient to keep the kitchen going on a paying 
basis, and also what advance over the cost of the raw materials these 
patrons will pay. It is known that the price of the finished dish may be 
from two to ten times the cost of the raw materials, according to the 
quality of the cooking and the grade of service. For instance, in a 
college dining room with a regular daily attendance of 300 the price of 
the meal may not be more than twice the cost of the material. In hotels 
and restaurants of various grades the higher proportions prevail to cover 
higher overhead and profits. 

It may be that in order to reach success a community kitchen must in 
some way obtain the patronage of the large number of families having 
less than a $3000 income, in which families, as we have said, the house- 
wife must save the diflerence between the cost of the raw food material 
and the price of the delivered meal as part of her contribution to the 
income. It would seem that this patronage is only to be gained by 
helping the housewife to make her absolutely necessary contribution 
in new ways that will equal the value of her services as cook. 

An organization along cooperative lines might furnish her part time 
jobs outside her home, while at the same time arranging on better 
lines some of her present duties, as, for instance, by starting a creche 
for the care of little children for a few hours of the day, like the one 
which has been started by the families of the faculty of the University 
of Chicago,* which would enable her to leave her home for certain hours. 

A close study of the various occupations that make up housework 
may show that the services rendered by the housewife are so interrelated 
that it is difficult to lift out any one or two of them without reference to 
the rest, and the success of the community kitchen may be found to 
lie in making it an integral part of a large plan of service to the house- 
hold. A plan, which would include not only the laundry, and the 
furnishing of all kinds of housework by the day and hour, but also an 
"exchange" which would take into account the economic relation of 
the housewife to the family income, by furnishing lucrative employment 
for a part of her day, is yet to be tried. 

There is great need of actual experiment along all of these lines, and 
those groups of women who are undertaking the solution of any depart- 
ment of household service are conferring a great favor on the com- 
munity. It should be borne in mind that the definition of success 

• A Cooperative Xursery, Jourrtiit of Home Economics, Feb. 1920. 



1920] PUBUC KITCHENS 269 

in such a case is not that which would be used for a business enter- 
prise, but rather that of the experimental scientist whose aim is 
the establishment of facts. If the aim is clearly held, the procedure 
well outlined, records carefully kept, and conclusions truthfully drawn, 
failure in the real sense of the word is impossible, for every experiment 
of the kind enlarges our basis of fact and brings success nearer. 

Undernutrition and public cooking. There is another reason, and a 
very important one, for the establishment of the public kitchen on the 
broad lines that have been successful in Europe. Recent advances in 
scientific knowledge of food and nutrition have revealed new causes for 
diseased conditions of the human being and many of them are traced 
to wrong food; therefore the choice and preparation of food from a 
nutritional standpoint has become a serious matter, especially for 
the city dweller of small means. 

Investigation has always shown a great deal of malnutrition among 
the poorer and more ignorant part of our population; it is the children 
who suffer most in health and development and the recognition of this 
fact has led to the provision of the school lunch for thousands of children 
in our great cities. 

Commercial enterprises can not be trusted to meet this need ; the pro- 
duct of the low grade delicatessen shop is costly, considering its quality, 
and frequently it is quite unfit from a sanitary point of view. 

It may well be that there is a place in our great cities for the com- 
munity kitchen as a purveyor of what people ought to eat if the food 
can be served at cost prices and meet the popular taste. It may work 
great changes in domestic conditions, especially in the home where there 
is too often neither the knowledge nor the equipment for cooking. 

The platform of the woman's party in England called for communal 
kitchens "to economize food and labor and to provide the best food 
cooked in the most skiOful way and sold at the lowest pirces." In 
England great efforts are being made to keep up the kitchens that were 
indispensable during the war. 

For every grade of family a community kitchen run in the interest 
of the public, perhaps as an adjunct of the Department of Health and 
presided over by trained dietitians, would be of the greatest ser\ace. 
There the main dish of the meal could be purchased in quantities esti- 
mated to furnish full nutrition for the family with the proper number of 
calories and drawn from the right sources to make a balanced menu. 
Such a dish or dishes would meet nutritional requirements making it 
safe for the family to spend the rest of their food money with a clear 
conscience on some preferred accessories. 



270 THE JOURKAL OF HOME ECONOMICS (JunC 

THE HOUSEHOLD BUDGET 

SARAH J. MACLEOD 
Society for S(inn(i, Cleveland, Ohio 

The use of the budget in the home is slowly gaining favor among 
housekeepers, but a large number of women still meet the words 
budgets and accounts with one of these comments: "My income is so 
small that I couldn't do any differently with it an>Tvay," or "Well, I 
have a good sized income so why should I bother with a budget?" 

An answer to these arguments is that a budget is simply a pattern for 
one's spending and it bears the same relationship to the income as a 
paper pattern does to the material out of which a dress is to be made. 
If one has a small amount of goods, she adjusts her pattern and plans 
most carefully in order to get the essential parts of the garment out of 
the material. The same holds true in regard to the small income; if 
the spending is planned carefully, the chances are that one will obtain 
better food, clothing, and shelter than she would otherwise. On the 
other hand, if one were making a gown of very nice material, she would 
be most careful in adjusting her pattern because she would want the 
best effect possible, and the same principle is applicable in using a 
larger income; if she plans her spending it is most probable that she 
will get not only better food, clothing, and shelter, but also more of the 
other things in life that she really wants. After a subsistence income 
is reached, it is not so much the size of the income as the way in which 
the income is spent which gives satisfaction. 

A budget is an individual thing; it is well to remember that budget 
figures which are so often published in women's magazines and by 
different organizations, are intended only as suggestions and are valu- 
able in that they show how other people manage; the experience of 
others is always useful and helpful but one does not have to do the same 
thing that others do; instead, one can choose the best that others have 
to offer. 

In making a budget, the first thing to do is to face the size of the 
income and if tlie income is variable, use the smallest amount one is 
likely to receive as the basis. Far too many people want to "take a 
chance" on the largest income that could possibly be received. This 
is a poor policy, for then, if one falls short and has to curtail, discontent 
is bound to result; whereas if one plans on the smaller income and the 
"extra" does come in, the surplus can be taken care of most happily. 



1920] THE HOUSEHOLD BUDGET 271 

The second thing to do is to decide what one wants out of that money 
and the next step is to plan so as to get as many as possible of the things 
that are wanted. The amounts allotted to the various divisions should 
be written down, for, when plan and figures are set down in black and 
white, one will not make changes without some thought. 

Various divisions have been used in planning the household budget, 
but, whatever the classification, the important thing is to allow for all 
possible expenditures. The following classification has been found 
suggestive and useful and may serve as a basis: 

Savings: Bank account; Investments; Life insurance. 

Food: Meat and fish; Dairy products; Fresh fruits and vegetables; 
Groceries and ice; Meals outside the home. 

Clothing: All wearing apparel and sewing supplies. 

Shelter: Rent or taxes; Fire insurance; Upkeep; Repair. 

Operating Expenses: Fuel, light, and telephone; Cleaning materials; 
Renewal of equipment; Service. 

Household Furnishing. 

Advancement: Education; Travel; Carfare; Gifts; Church and benev- 
olence; Entertainment; Amusement; Club dues; Papers, books, and 
magazines; Stationery and postage; Physician, dentist, and medicine; 
Toilet articles; Personal taxes. 

The budget is nothing more nor less than a plan for spending and, like 
any other plan, it is of no value unless carried out, and the only way to 
know how closely one is following the budget is by keeping accounts 
and comparing the results with the budget figures. The main reason 
for keeping accounts is to see how closely one is adhering to the standard 
set for one's self. A classified account form, whether in the form of 
cards or a book, shows this most easily. To be able to account for 
every dollar is very nice, but because accounts do not balance is no 
reason for giving up the keeping of accounts. Is it not better, for 
instance, to be able to account for 95 per cent of the income than to 
give up keeping accounts because 5 per cent is missing? One will have 
much more satisfaction in knowing exactly what one is getting out of 
95 cents of every dollar that is spent than if it is not possible to 
account for any of the money. The longer one keeps accounts, the 
more easily they balance. 

After keeping accounts, one is either satisfied or dissatisfied. If one 
is satisfied, it is because of the written proof that one has received 
what was most wanted out of every dollar handled and that it is not 



272 THE JOURNAL OF HOUE ECONOMICS [June 

possible to better the spending. Very often this feeling of satisfaction 
has been the greatest boon to the conscientious woman who perhaps 
has handled a great deal of money but who also has had heavy fmancial 
responsibilities and as a result has not been able to save as much as she 
desired. 

On the other hand, when accounts show leaks and unwise expendi- 
tures, the feeling that results is far from that of satisfaction; but, in- 
stead of only having the feeling that entirely too much is spent, one can 
go over the accounts and pick out those expenditures which did not give 
full value, with the result that one will think twice before doing the same 
things again. A classified account shows the totals of the small spend- 
ings and these are the ones which most often cause the trouble. Twenty- 
five cents is often spent unthinkingly, but a twenty-five dollar purchase 
is sure to demand some thought. 

Accounts are interesting and valuable when they are analyzed and 
used in making comparisons, either from month to month or from year 
to year. It is perhaps of some value just to know how much has been 
spent, but that can be found out without keeping accounts, by subtract- 
ing what is left from what is received. What one does want to know is 
how the money has been spent and what each dollar has yielded. 

The first two of the ten commandments of thrift which were adopted 
by practically all organizations interested in the development of thrift 
are, (1) Make a Budget, and (2) Keep an Intelligent Record of Expendi- 
tures. These are of prime importance in managing a business success- 
fully, and it is no less true that when the home finances are managed in 
a thoughtful way, greater happiness results because each activity in the 
home is better balanced, since it receives its just proportion of the 
income. 



EDITORIAL 

Thirteenth Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics 
Association, Colorado Springs, June 24 to 29. A preliminary pro- 
gram for the annual meeting of the Association has already been sent 
to each member. The final program will probably be issued before 
this number of the Journal reaches its readers. Copies may be 
obtained by writing to the office of the Journal. A number of addi- 
tions have been made to the first program. More space has been given 
to public school work and several speakers of nation wide reputation 
in education are expected to be present. Each Section of the Associ- 
ation is ably represented in general sessions as well as in sectional 
conferences. 

The thanks of the Association are due to Miss Marlatt, chairman 
of the program committee and to the chairmen of the various Sections 
for the time and effort they have generously given. Miss Allison, 
who has made the arrangements in Colorado, has had perhaps the 
most difficult task of all, and we are especially indebted to her. 

"Education in general has been facing many new problems since 
the war and if home economics is to hold the place that it should in 
the educational field we must avail ourselves of every opportunity for 
conference. It will take the united efforts of all home economics work- 
ers to carry us over the top. 

"Plan to meet in Colorado June 24 to 29, so that we may have the 
largest group we have ever had." 

While it was impossible to procure convention rates tourist rates 
are available and have the advantage of allowing stop over privileges. 
Hotel accommodations may be secured directly from the hotels. The 
list was printed in the April Journal. Any one who is unfamiliar 
with the attractions of Colorado as a place for meeting and for vaca- 
tion should consult the May Journal. 



273 



274 TiiK JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [June 

Some Results of Low Protein Diet. The recent war has contrib- 
uted an abundance of data on the cfTccts of restricted or inadequate diets 
in human nutrition. One of the most common diseases prevalent among 
the people of Europe during this period has become familiar under the 
name "war dropsy" or "hunger edema." The latter name implies 
that it is recognized as a form of malnutrition. 

The most prominent symptom of the disease is an edema, or swelling, 
which in mild cases may be localized but in the more severe cases be- 
comes general. Accompanying this edema, there are extreme emaci- 
ation, fatigue, soreness of the muscles, anemia, and greatly lowered con- 
dition of general nutrition. Susceptibility to infections and to exposure 
to cold are markedly increased. The skin becomes dry and scaly with 
frequent sores. Chemical analyses of the blood show a depletion of 
fats, lipoids, and glycogen, and diminished protein. This is not due to 
simple dilution with water, since the composition of the corpuscles 
themselves is changed. 

The disease has been tentatively ascribed to almost every form of 
defective diet — lack of fat-soluble A and water-soluble B, insufficient 
fat, inadequate protein, restricted calorics, deficiency of calcium, ex- 
cessive carbohydrate, and high fluid intake. Some recent experiments 
reported by Dr. Kohman, of the University of Chicago, in the American 
Journal of Physiology for March, 1920, lead definitely to the conclusion 
that it is continued subsistence on a diet verj' low in protein which is 
really responsible for the development of this condition. 

Denton and Kohman in earlier work observed that edema was pro- 
duced in rats fed on a carrot diet in which the proportion of protein was 
reduced by the addition of starch or fat. These rats presented a picture 
very similar to that described in cases of "war dropsy." There was 
loss of weight, decreased activity, soreness of muscles, anemia, dry skin, 
and lowered resistance to infections and to cold. 

Dr. Kohman modified the diet by the addition of generous amounts 
of fat-soluble A, water-soluble B, and mineral salts, and by substitution 
of fat for part of the starch. She found that no one of these factors 
had any effect either in preventing the disease or in curing it. On the 
other hand, a diet in which purified casein was substituted for a part of 
the starch prevented the occurrence of edema in well rats and acted as 
a cure if the disease had not progressed too far. In one single rat she 
was able to produce or cure the edema at will by decreasing or increasing 



1920] EDITORIAL 275 

the amoxint of protein in the diet. Rats kept on a diet restricted as to 
calories but with an adequate quantity of protein, while they did not 
grow at a normal rate, showed no signs of edema. A high water intake 
and an increase in the acidity of the diet each caused more marked edema 
on the low protein diet, but apparently produced no deleterious effect 
when used in connection with the adequate diet. They seem to be ac- 
cessory factors but not direct causes of the edema. 

In an excellent revaew of this subject published in the Journal of the 
American Medical Association, April 3, 1920, Dr. Maver also arrives at 
the conclusion that "war dropsy" is not a deficiency disease in the sense 
that it is due to a lack of specific \-itamines, but that it is the result of 
protracted existence on a diet deficient in amoimt, and especially de- 
ficient in protein. She also reports feeding experiments with animals 
which corroborate Dr. Kohman's results. 

Much has been said about overfeeding of protein. Our attention is 
here called to the fact that there may be serious ill effects from the oppo- 
site extreme of protein underfeeding. The dropsy occurring in many 
conditions associated with defective nutrition, as in pernicious anemia 
and marasma in infants, is ver>' similar to "war dropsy" and is prob- 
ably the result of similar nutrition disturbances. 

Food Idiosyncrasies. Strawberry rash and other disturbances of 
the skin and the digestive tract, following the eating of foods such as 
eggs, milk, and nuts, are but a few examples of food idiosjTicrasies. 
These reactions are more accurately called anaphylaxis. They may be 
caused by abnormal beha'vior of protein in the body. If an incom- 
pletely digested protein finds its way into the blood through a faulty 
intestinal wall, the individual becomes "sensitized" to that protein; 
when the same protein is eaten several days or weeks later, the result 
of the sensitization shows in the ways mentioned above. 

This phenomenon has for several years been known to be associated 
with various bodily disturbances: of the respirator)- tract as in hay- 
fever and asthma (although the direct cause of trouble here is as a rule 
weed pollen, there may be an accompanying sensitivity to one or more 
food proteins also) ; of the skin as in eczemas ; and of the gastro-intestinal 
tract causing vomiting and diarrhea. Park' cites an unusually \iolent 

' Park, E. A., A case of hypersensitiveness to cow's milk. Amer. Jour. Dis. Child., 19, 
46 Qan., 1920). 



276 THE JOURNAL OF HOifE ECONOMICS [June 

case of the last mentioned type. An infant six weeks old was found to 
be hypersensitive to cow's milk; at various times during the first year 
or so of his life, a drop of a highly diluted milk solution, a crumb of 
bread made with milk, a few drops of diluted condensed milk brought 
on alarming symptoms of vomiting, diarrhea, stupor, and prostration. 

SufTerers from asthma, hay-fever, and eczemas have often been shown 
to be reactive to the proteins of one or many common foods by means of 
the "skin test." This test consists of the application of some of the 
suspected protein to a scratch on the skin of the inner forearm. A raised 
wheal in an area of redness at the end of a half-hour shows that the 
individual has sometime in the past become sensitive to this particular 
protein. Baker^ has recently used the test to detect sensitivity in nor- 
mal children not known to have any anaphylactic history. As expected, 
he found the condition very rare in these children but the articles of diet 
gi\dng positive or questionable reactions included foods which pedia- 
tricians have had to avoid in regulating the diets of children of erratic 
tendencies. In other words, the normal child occasionally showed the 
reaction previously found clinically in the abnormal. The foods causing 
an occasional positive reaction include oatmeal, potato, eggs, peas, rice, 
casein, beef-juice, chicken, and salmon. In many instances a child was 
reactive to only one, though he might be to several. 

In children, this sensitization often tends to disappear spontaneously 
as they grow older, possibly because they desensitize themselves as they 
begin to eat the food in question regularly. Park reports that the child 
hypersensitive to milk partially desensitized himself by picking up stray 
crumbs; he was cured entirely by being given daily amounts of milk, 
increasing in nine days from 1 drop to 10 cc. Improvement in the con- 
dition of adults has in some cases resulted from avoiding the food at 
fault and in a few others by gradual desensitization with regular and 
increasing amounts of the food. 

Practical application of knowledge of this kind to proper regulation 
of the diet has not yet become so extensive as it promises to become in 
the future. The understanding of the causes and symptoms of protein 
sensitization should aid in its interpretation of children's reactions to 
certain foods if these foods are taken in quantities too small to cause 
digestive disturbances. 

' Baker, H. M., The incidence of protein sensitization in the normal child. Amcr. Jour. 
Dis. Child., 19, 114 (Feb., 1920). 



1920] THE OPKN FORUM 277 

The Disinfection of Bathing Suits." In order to enforce a legis- 
lative act in California controlling the sanitation and healthfulness of 
swimming pools, bathhouse, and bathing places and their appurtenances, 
an investigation of suitable methods of laundering bathing suits and 
towels was made. Detailed study was given to the technic of sampling 
the suits and towels and to the effectiveness of various disinfectants. 
Immersing and agitating bathing suits for fifteen minutes in a 1.5 per 
cent solution of a water soluble coal tar disinfectant, and towels for the 
same length of time in a solution containing 300-400 parts per million 
available chlorine was found to make them practically sterile. The 
best method of washing seems to be in hot water and soap for fifteen or 
twenty minutes, depending on previous disinfection, but further study 
on this point is recommended. The method of drying is also an impor- 
tant factor in the removal of bacteria. Sun-drying for six hours or hot- 
air drying for 1 hour at a temperature of 250-300° seems to be best. 



THE OPEN FORUM 

To the Journal of Home Economics: 

Does the Journal approve of the scheme of the cooperative nursery 
described in the February Joxjrnal? Why is it that any other work is 
considered more worth while than the rearing of the next generation, 
which is the most difficult task in the world whatever period is con- 
sidered — the pre-natal or post-natal period, or the period of childhood or 
adolescence? What proportion of home economics teachers are in 
favor of such a scheme? Will governments be impressed with the 
importance of teaching mothercraft or child welfare work to women if 
educated women do not prize the opportunity of such work? 

E. M. HUTCHESON. 

The above letter was submitted to the author of the article in ques- 
tion, whose reply follows: 

' Studies in Bacteriological Sampling and Disinfection of Bathing Suits and Towels, 
C. G. Gillespie, Calif. State Bd. Health Mo. Bui., 15 (1919), No. 4, pp. 97-111. 



278 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Junc 

Here is a mother, typical of many another living an apartment house 
life with husband and two small children. Johnnie must have some new 
nighties, the old ones are past patching, and she, herself, must have a 
spring hat. But how can she get down town? The husband is working 
all day and she feels diffident about dumping two children on her ac- 
quaintances however cordial they may be. Fortunately there is no 
difficulty in her case. She leaves them at the Cooperative Nursery on 
her way to the train and calls for them again at the close of her shopping 
trip, confident that they have been carefully guarded and have had pleas- 
ant companions while she has been away. The next week "Little Sister" 
is not well. John cannot be sent out alone to play on the street and the 
apartment yard is unspeakable. The mother must stay with the 
baby but fortunately John can go to the Nursery and be out doors in 
the big safe field all the morning. The next morning the baby is well 
again and it is the mother's day to help at the Nursery. To her it 
appears a privilege to watch her children as they play with others. She 
may notice qualities brought out there which are unsuspected at home and 
perhaps should be reproved. She gains useful ideas from the trained 
kindergartner and by learning more of many children is better able to 
understand her own. She uses the Nursery perhaps three times a week 
and regards it as a wonderful help towards the health and happiness of 
her whole family. 

Then there are many others situated as is this mother, the wife of a 
graduate student. It has been a great financial sacrifice to come to the 
University for this longed for year of study. Because of the children she 
did not expect to be able to share the opportunity but she learns of the 
Nursery. The children go there every day while she attends the classes 
which will make her better fitted to help her husband or to do her home 
work intelligently. 

The Nursery is not an alternative home. It is an assistant to the 
busy mother who cannot afford a competent nurse and wishes her 
children to share with other children the benefits of safe play both 
indoors and out. 

Margaret Goodrich Norton. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



Some Household and Personal Expense Ac- 
count Forms. 

From a survey of a number of the per- 
sonal and household account books on the 
market, it would seem that the classified 
account is the most popular form. The 
classification of the various account sheets 
is by no means uniform but at least an 
attempt at classification is made. 

In addition to grouped e.xpenditures, a clas- 
sified account may also show the following: 

1. Budget figures 

2. Receipts 

3. List of items with prices 

4. Comparisons: (a) between different 
months of the same year, (b) between dif- 
ferent years, (c) between the same months 
of different years 

5. Daily totals 

6. Grand totals 

7. Balance 

The following are some classified accounts 
with notations of what they show: 

Household Account Books 

The Economizer Household Account. Econ- 
omizer I^iblishing Co., Berkeley, Cal. Shows 
1, 2, 3, 4a, 6 and 7. 

The F err in Money Saving Account Book. 
Independent Corporation, 119 W. 40th 
Street, New York City. Shows 1, 2, 3, 
4a, 4b, 4c, 6 and 7. 

A Budget Book with a Conscience. Y. M. 
C. A., 347 Madison Avenue, New York 
City. Shows 1, 2, 3, 4a and 7. This 
book lacks durability in construction and 
the space for entries is cramped. 

Woolson's Economy Expaise Book. Wool- 
son Co., 120 W. 32nd Street, New York 
City. Shows 2, 3, 4a, 4b, 4c, 6 and 7. 
This book gives space for accounts for four 
years. 



Household Accounts Simplified. Otis and 
Otis, 1822 Chadboume Avenue, Madison 
Wis. Shows 1, 2, 4a, and 7. This book 
contains a nice mechanical device which 
shows all the monthly sunmiaries without 
posting. 

The Taplex Budget for Personal or Family 
Expenses. Shows 1, 2, 3, 4a, 4b, 4c, 6, 7 
and 8. This book has space for accounts 
for four years. 

The Prosperity Book. By Florence Bar- 
nard. Fort Hill Press, Boston, Mass. 
Shows 2, 4a, 6 and 7. This is a small 
book with some suggestive reading matter 
but unfortunately the space for entrie is 
cramped. 

Monthly Household Budget. American 
Society for Thrift, 220 West 42nd Street, 
New York City. Shows 1, 2, 5 and 6. 
This comes in large single sheets 12 by 19 
inches in size and is ruled for use on both 
sides. It is ungainly and awkward to 
handle. 

Taber's Household Ledger Sheet. The 
Chart and Record Company, Chicago, 111. 
Shows 1, 2, 4a, 4b, 4c, and 7. This k 
designed for weekly and monthly records. 

Home Account Book. Delaware Agri- 
cultural College E.ttension Service. Shows 
2, 3, 6 and 7. The columns are not labeled, 
so the individual may classify to suit her 
own needs. 

Personal Expense Books 

Personal Account Book. Y. W. C. A., 
600 Lexington Avenue, New York City. 
Shows 2, 3, 4a, 5 and 6. 

The Ten Financial Commandments and 
Hou' to Keep Them. Y. M. C. A., 347 
Madison .Vvenuc, New York City. Shows 
1, 2, 3, 5 and 6. This has a very incomplete 
classification and gives space for e.tpenses 
for only six months. 

279 



280 



TIIF. JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[June 



Personal Expenie Account Book. Wo- 
men's Educational and Industrial Union, 
264 Hoybton Street, Il<Jston, Moss. Shows 
2, 3, 4a, 5, 6 and 7. Thb IxKjk gives space 
for accounts for two years. 

An Account Blank for Colle(e Slitdenls. 
Divbion of Home liconomics, University of 
Minnesota, St. Taul. Shows 2, 3, 5, 6 and 
7. This book stresses the clothing item 
and would be of especial value to one inter- 
ested in clothing costs. 

An account to be of value must tell those 
things which one really wants to know. A 
fully classified account does this but where 
an endeavor is made to save space by 
grouping a number of expenditures, one of 
the main purposes of a classified account 
is defeated, for often essential and non- 
essential expenditures are grouped together 
with the result that leaks do not show. 
It would seem that a classified account book 
should be either very fully and freely classi- 
fied and even then a few extra columns 
left for special expenditures, or the columns 
should not be labeled, but a suggested classi- 
fication given in the preface so that the user 
may label the columns to suit his own 
purposes. 

Sasah J. MacLeod, 
Society for SaiHngs, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 

Report on the Present State of Knowledge 
Concerning Accessory Food Factors 
{Vitamines). Special Report, Series No. 
38. Compiled by a Committee Appointed 
Jointly by the Lister Institute and Medi- 
cal Research Committee. 
This Report of one hundred pages is 
essentially a monograph on the chemically 
unidentified food factors, and presents a 
clear and easily readable account of the 
established facts concerning these interest- 
ing substances at the time of its publication 
in June, 1919. 

The Report was prepared by a Committee 
consisting of Professor F. Gowland Hopkins, 
Drs. Harriette Chick, J. C. Drummond, 
E. Mellanby and Professor Arthur Harden. 



The enumeration of these names is a suffi- 
cient guarantee of the excellence of the work. 

The introductory chapter gives an hi»- 
torical review of the early experimental 
work which led to the discovery of the exis- 
tence of a new class of substances pbying a 
prominent part in nutrition, the etiulogy of 
bcri-beri and of scruvy, and an application 
of experimental work to the practical prob- 
lems of human diet. 

Rickets is regarded as a deficiency disease, 
of which xerophthalmia is but one feature. 
The authors are of the opinion that rickets 
is probably specific starvation for the dietary 
essential fat-soluble A, but this view is ex- 
pressed with caution. A brief account is 
included of the experimental work which 
tends to illuminate the dilUcult problem of 
the etiology of pellagra. 

An excellent bibliography is included 
which adds to the merit of the work. It is 
a pleasure to read such a sane treatise on a 
subject which has suffered so much mis- 
representation at the hands of incompetents. 
E. V. McCOLLUM, 

School of Hygiene and Public Health, 
Johns Hopkins University. 

Twenty-Four Liltie French Dinners. By 

Cora Moore. New York: E. P. Dut- 

ton and Co., 1919. 

This book, while containing some inter- 
esting material especially in the opening 
chapter, is too indefinite for the average 
housekeeper and the seasonings and mate- 
rials called for are often difficult to obtain 
even in a city like New York. 

The use of expressions such as "a pint of 
bechamel" or "a pint of velouti" is confus- 
ing to those who have not had the meaning 
explained. 

The French cook would undoubtedly be 
guided by her judgment when told to put 
"celery, carrot, onions, etc." into a pan but 
too many housekeepers would not have the 
necessary good judgment. 

On page 83 is a recipe for "Homards et 
Champignons" that is a good example of 
what is meant. 



1920J PAMPHLETS RECEIVED 281 

PAMPLETS RECEIVED 

Issued by the U. S. Department of Agriculture: 
Bays' and Girls' Club Work. Diseases and Insects of the Home Garden. W. W. Gilbert and 

C. H. Popenoe. Department Circ. 35. 
Rural Community Buildings in the United States. W. C. Nason and C. W. Thompson. 

Bulletin No. 825. 
Selection and Care of Clothing. Laura I. Baldt. Farmers BuUetm 1089. 

Issued by the Department of the Interior, Bureau of Education: 
Bibliography of Home Economics. Carrie Alberta Lyford. Bulletin, 1919, No. 46. 
Diet for the School Child. Health Education. No. 2. 
Educational Hygiene. Willard S. Small. Bulletin, 1919, No. 48. 
Federal Executive Departments as Sources of Information For Libraries. Edith Guerrier. 

Bulletin, 1919, No. 74. 
List of Reference on the Project Method in Education. Prepared in the Library Division. 

Library Leaflet No. 9. 
Stories for Young Children. List Prepared by the Literature Committee of the International 

Kindergarten Union and the Library Division. Library Leaflet No. 6. 
Training Little Children. Suggestions for Parents. Bulletin, 1919, No. 39. 

Issued by the U. S. Department of Labor, Children's Bureau: 

Courts in the United States Hearing Children's Cases. Evelina Belden. Dependent, Defec- 
tive, and Delinquent Classes Series No. 8, Bureau Publication No. 65. 

Every Child in School. A Safeguard against Child Labor and Illiteracy. Children's Year 
Follow-up Series No. 3, Bureau Publication No. 64. 

Illegitimacy as a Child-Welfare Problem. Emma O. Lundberg and Katharine F. Lenroot. 
Dependent, Defective and Delinquent Classes Series No. 9, Bureau Publication No. 66. 

Illegitimacy Laws of the United States and Certain Foreign Countries. Ernst Freund. Legal 
Series No. 2, Bureau Publication No. 42. 

Laws Relating to Mothers' Pensions in the United States, Canada, Denmark and New Zealand. 
Laura A. Thompson. Legal Series No. 4, Bureau Publication No. 63. 

What do Craning Children Need? A Problem for Parents. Dodger No. 10. 

Issued by the United States Public Health Service: 

A Homemade Milk Refrigerator. Prepared by Direction of the Surgeon General. Public 
Health Bulletin No. 102. 

Antenatal and Neonatal Factors in Infant Mortality. Reprint No. 528 from the Public Health 
Reports. 
Issued by the Federal Board for Vocational Education: 

Third Annual Report of the Federal Board for Vocational Education, 1919. Volume 1, Voca- 
tional Education. Volume 11, Vocational Rehabilitation. 

Survey of the Needs in the Field of Vocational Home Economics FJucation. Bulletin No. 37, 
Home Economics Series No. 4. 

The Garment Trades, May 1919. 

Training Courses in Safety and Hygiene in the Building Trades, Bulletin No. 31, Trade and 
Industrial Series No. 6, May 1919, 

Use and Preparation of Food, Bulletin No. 35. Home Economics Series No. 3., October 1919. 



282 THE JOOTINAL OK HOME FXONOUICS [June 

Issued by the College of Industrial Arts, Denton, Texas: 
.1 ppTopriote Clothes for the lliji School Girl. \'irginia M. Alexander. 

A Syllabus on Design, Costume Design, and Interior Decoralion For Art and Home Economics 
Teachers. Oillcge Bulletin. 

Issued by the Home Economics Bureau of the Society for Savings in the City of Cleveland: 
Budgets for Incomes of $1500.00, $1800.00, $2-100.00, $3000.00, $3600.00, $4800 JOG. 
Ten Commandments of Thrift. 

Issued by the publishers listed : 
Are You Getting Your Money's Worth. War Loan Organization, Fifth Federal Reserve 

District, Richmond, Va. Contains suggested budget and form for monthly ezpeue 

account. 
Budget Planning in Social Case Work. Bulletin N'o. 3, Committee on Home Economics, 

The Charity Organization Society, 105 E. 22d St., New York. 
L'Education Familiale. (Monthly) Brussels, Belgium. 
The Food CcUendar. lixtension Service University of Illinois, Urbana, Illinois. Arranged 

for daily record under five food groups. I'rice, 25 cents. 
Girls Clothing Contest. Bulletin 109, Department of Education, State of Texas. 
Household Weights and .Measures (Kitchen Cardj. Miscellaneous Publications No. 39, 

Bureau of Standards, Department of Commerce. 
Bouses or Homes. First Report of The Cincinnati Better Housing League, June, 1919. 
Oysters and Fish. OfCcial Bulletin, Sept., 1919, Conservation Commission of Maryland, 

512 Munsey Bldg., Baltimore. 
Thrift in the Household. Wisconsin War Savings Organization, 415 E. Water St., Mil- 
waukee, Wb. 
Vocaticmal Uomemaking Education: Some Problems and Proposals. David Snedden, Ph.D. 

Teachers College Bulletin, Teachers College, New York City. 
American Dyestujfs or National Disaster. Reprinted from Textiles, September, 1919. 
Cafeteria Standards and Methods of Attaining Them. Nola Treat and Lenore Richards. 

Special Bulletin No. 44. Extension DiWsion, University Farm, St. Paul, Minn. 
TIte Case of the Bituminous Coal Mine Workers. Issued by the United Mine Workers of 

America, 1920. Sec. 2, The Case for a Living Wage, gives data on minimum and 

adequate standards of living with estimates made by Professors Ogbum, Chapin, and 

others. 
Current Notes in Institutional .Adminislralion. Bulletin, Eleventh series, No. 7. Teachers 

College, Columbia University, New York City. 
Eleven Years of Community Ser-Ace. A Summary of the Work of the Immigrants Protective 

League. Issued by the Immigrants Protective League, Chicago. 
The Hot School Lunch. Dorothy Buckley. Bulletin No. 16. Conn. Agr. College Extension 

Service, Storrs. 
Homemaking in Wisconsin. Home Economics Teachers Exchange Ideas. Compiled by Helen 

C. Goodspeed, Supervisor of H. E., State Dept. of Public Instruction. Issued monthly. 
Low Cost Menus. Costing $20 a Week for Five Persons. .Mice Bradley Issued monthly by 

the Woman's Home Companion, N. Y. City. Price, 10 cents. 
Planning the House. An Outline Course for Use with Clubs. Elizabeth Jenkins. House and 

Home Series, The Woman's Press. N. Y. City. 



1920] BIBUOGRAPHV OF HOME ECONOMICS 283 

Rural School Sanitation. Dr. E. M. Pickens. Issued by the Maryland State College, Col- 
lege Park, Md. 

When Potatoes are Plentiful. The Cornell Readbg Course for the Farm Home, April 1918. 
Food Series. Lesson 118. N. Y. State College of Agriculture at Cornell University, 
Ithaca, N. Y. 

Pamphlets on Natural Gas. Issued by publishers listed: 

Catechism on Natural Gas. Dept. of the Interior, Bureau of Mines. 

Supply and Conservation of Natural Gas in the State of Pennsylvania. In three parts: Pro- 
ceedings of Conservation Conference in Pittsburg on January 8, 1919; Present and 
Prospective Supply of Natural Gas Available in Pa.; Smithsonian Institution Bulletin 
No. 102, Part 7, Natural Gas, its production, service, and conservation. Issued by the 
Public Service Commission of Pa., Harrisburg, Pa. 

Kitchen Tests of Relative Cost of Natural Gas, Soft Coal, Coal Oil, Gasoline, and Electricity 
for Cooking. Issued by Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio. 

Waste and Correct Use of Natural Gas in the Home. Samuel S. Wyer. Issued by the Dept. 
of the Interior, Bureau of Mines. 

Natural Gas and Natural-gas Gasoline in 1917. Contains a list of names of the natural gas 
using towns in the United States. Issued by the Dept. of the Interior, Bureau of Mines. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 

Domestic Lighting ' 

Books 

Godinez, F. Laurent. The lighting book: a manual for the layman .... practi- 
cal and esthetic sides of good lighting for the home. New York: McBride, Nast and Com- 
pany, 1913. 

Illuminating engineering practice. New York: McGraw-Hill, 1917. p. 395-413: The 
lighting of the home, by H. W. Jordan. 

Keene, Edward Spencer. Mechanics of the household; a course of study devoted to 
domestic machincrj' and household mechanical appliances. New York: McGraw-Hill, 1918. 

Luckiesh, M. The lighting art. New York: McGraw-Hill, 1917. Chapter XVI: 
Residence lighting. 

Periodical articles 

Cassidy, George W. Art and science in home lighting. Illuminating Engineering 
Society. Transactions. 1915. Vol. 10, p. 55-81. 

Clewell, C. E. Decorative lighting for the home. Electrical Age. New York, 1916. 
VoL 49, No. 5, p. 27-28. 

Clinton, W. C. Recent developments in public and private lighting. lUuminatint 
Engineer. London, 1919. Vol. 12, p. 287-89. 

Cravath, J. R. Knowns and unknowns in the lighting of small interiors. Illuminating 
Engineering Society. Transactions. 1915. Vol. 10, p. 303-314. Page 314 — short biblio- 
graphy (general theory). 

' Furnished by the New York Public Library. For additional references see periodical: 
The Illuminating Engineer. London. 



284 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECOKOsncs (June 

French, C. H. and Van Giessen, C. J. Dual lighting for the home. Gai Record. 
Chicago, 1916. Vol. 10, p. 195-7. 

French, C. II. and Van Cics&cn, C. J. Gas and electric lighting in the home. Illumi- 
nating Engineering Society. Transactions. 1916. Vol. 11, p. 1068-82. 

Harrison, Newton. The scientific lighting of a home. Central Station, New York, 
1914. Vol. 13, p. 341-44. 

Pierce, R. F. Residence lighting with special reference to semi-indirect illumination. 
American Gas Light Journal, New York, 1915. Vol. 102, p. 322-24. 

Powell, A. L. The lighting of a simple home. Illuminating Engineering Society. 
Transactions. 1914. Vol. 9, p. 45-66. 

Riley, Percy 0. Radiation in ornament. Carpet and Upholstery Trade Revirx, 1917. 
Vol. 48, no. 12, p. 64-66. 

Miscellaneous 

A system of dietary follow-up work, B. B. Titus. Mod. llosp., 12 (1919), No. 1, p. 67. 

Menus compiled by dietitian for officers' hall and maids' and helps' cafeteria |of the Hotel 
Pennsylvania, .N'ew York City), Hotel Mo., 27 (1919), No. 321, pp. 58-60. These menus 
for a week are included in an article discussing the equipment and operation of the Hotel 
Pennsylvania. Much attention is given to the food and the dining room management, 
laundry, and other problems of interest to students of food and home economics. As appar- 
ently home cooked food is what many patrons desire, a special kitchen has been equipped 
in charge of a dietitian with home economics training, and special mention of this fact is 
made in the menu cards. 

Time-savers for the accounting and the laundry departments (of hospitals]. L. H. Bur- 
lingham, Mod. IIosp., 12 (1919), No. 1, pp. 21-23, figs. 4. The advantages of using an 
individual payroll card are pointed out, with the claim that time is saved and friction ob- 
viated. A simple method for caring for the linen, which obviates a central linen room, 
which it is believed is a time saver, is described. Instead of being piled into baskets and 
taken to the linen room, sorted and placed on shelves, and then transferred from the shelves 
to the carriers and thence to the wards, it is taken directly from the laundry machines to 
sorting shelves in the laundry and from these shelves it is placed in baskets for the various 
wards and delivered to them directly from the laundry. 

Posture and its Relation to Health. John B. Blake, The Commonhealth, May-June, 1919. 
Housing Investigation. George Whipple, The Commonheallh, March-April, 1919. 
Home Work in Home Economics. Vera B. Tice, Indus, .irts, September, 1919. 
Lessons in Foods and Cookery, with Simple .Appliances; Foods ready without Cooking. 
Anna Barrows, Amer. Cookery, 24 (1919), No. 1, pp. 26-29. 
Breakfasting as a Fine Art. Atlantic Mo., Nov., 1919. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



The Southern Home Economics Asso- 
ciation. The fourth annual meeting of 
the Southern Home Economics Association 
was held in New Orleans, March 18-20, 
inclusive, with the largest attendance in 
its history. Mary E. Creswell, State Super- 
visor of Home Economics for the state of 
Georgia, and President of the association, 
presented a most excellent and compre- 
hensive program. 

An outstanding feature of the meeting 
was the fact that the attendance represented 
every phase of home economics work. 
College professors, high school teachers, 
rural teachers, vocational workers, and 
county, district and state home demonstra- 
tion agents were all represented on the 
program and in the audience. 

The officers of the association were: 
President, Mary E. Creswell, Supervisor of 
Home Economics for the state of Georgia; 
Vice President, Mary E. Sweeny, Super- 
visor of Home Economics for the state of 
Kentucky; Secretary-Treasurer, Susie V. 
Powell, Assistant Director of Extension 
work for Mississippi. 

The St. Charles Hotel was headquarters 
and the meetings were held in the Art 
Building of Sophie Newcomb College with 
the exception of the opening session which 
was held at Tulane University. 

Welcome was extended to the association 
as follows: to the City, Dr. J. M. Gwinn, 
City Superintendent of Public schools, 
New Orleans; to Tulane, Dr. A. B. Din- 
widdie. President of Tulane University; 
to the State, Hon. T. H. Harris, State 
Superintendent of Education; to the Home 
Economics Department of Sophie Newcomb 
Memorial College, Harriet Boyer, Professor 
of Domestic Science; to the Louisiana Ex- 
tension Department, Norma Overbey, State 
Home Demonstration Agent; to the Home 
Economics Department of the Public 



Schools, Clcora Helbing, State Supervisor of 
Home Economics. 

Miss Creswell responded to the cordial 
words of welcome most graciously and 
accepted the hospitality in the name of the 
association. 

.\ masterly address was made by Mrs. 
Henrietta Calvin from the Bureau of Edu- 
cation, Washington, D. C, on what Home 
Economics Should Stand for To-day, epitom- 
ized as Health, Thrift, and .\mericanization. 

In the afternoon an illuminating address 
was made by Ola Powell, Assistant in 
Home Demonstration Work, U. S. Dept. 
of Agr., Washington, on Recent Progress in 
Home Demonstration Work. 

This was followed by an address by 
Adelaide Baylor, Federal Agent for Voca- 
tional Education, on What is Vocational 
Home Economics? 

Friday morning the association met in 
three sections, the Section of Elementary 
Schools, the Section of College and Normal 
Schools, and the Extension Section. Friday 
afternoon, the association visited the New- 
comb College Schools of Art and Home 
Economics and listened to addresses by 
Prof. E. Woodward, Director of the Art 
School and Mrs. Gertrude Smith, Professor 
of Water Color. 

The social features of the meeting, planned 
by the entertainment committee. Miss Boyer 
and Miss Helbing, were delightful. 

On Thursday afternoon the entire asso- 
ciation had an enjoyable auto tour of the 
city, and Thursday evening a typical French 
banquet at the famous Antoines. 

Friday afternoon the Senior Class in 
Home Economics gave a delightful picnic 
at the historic Spanish Fort. 

Saturday afternoon there was a boat 

ride dowTi the river to see the greatest inland 

harbor in the world. Sunday morning a 

tour through the French quarter was con- 

285 



286 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[June 



ducted by Mn. Alma Stephens of Sophie 
Newcomb College. 

At the final session of the association, 
Mn. Grace Wilmot of New \'ork City gave 
a delightful talk on Art in Decoration, and 
Mrs. Virginia Katon, Agent in Dairying, 
told how the Milk Campaign in lyouisiana 
was made a success. 

The following officers were elected: 
President, Harriet Boyer; Vice-President, 
Louise Turner; Secretary-Treasurer, Laura 
Neale. 

Invitations were extended to the Associa- 
tion for next year's meeting by the Alabama 
Home Economics Association, by Edith 
Thomas of Florida State College for Women, 
and by George Peabody College for Teachers. 
Susie V. Powell, 
Secretary- Treasurer. 

The New England Home Economics 
Association held an all-day meeting at 
Simmons College, Boston, on April 10. 
At the morning session, devoted to the 
subject, Ways of Meeting Shortage in 
Household Service, Mrs. George U. Crocker 
spoke on the work of the Boston Bureau of 
Household Occupations in placing superior 
women in households on a business basis, 
and Mrs. James Odell spoke on the success 
of the Evanston, Illinois, Community 
Kitchen in delivering hot, home-cooked 
dinners to households. After luncheon in 
the College lunch room, the Social Workers 
Teachers, and Homemakers Sections joined 
forces to discuss What Changes are Needed 
in the Teaching of Home Economics to 
Meet Present Conditions. The key note 
of the speeches of Luc/ Gillett for the social 
workers. Miss Howard for the teachers, 
and Mrs. Horatio Dresser for the home- 
makers, as of the morning speeches, was the 
necessity of preserving the home as a means 
of happy, healthy, useful, development. 
Short talks from the floor and lively round 
table discussion followed. 



The Story o( • Fellowship. During 
the war when the pro<luclion of Ijeer was 
priihibilcd the I'lcisthraann Veast Company 
could no longer obtain malt sprouts from the 
brewers. They found, however, that the 
mall sprouts seemed necessary for the nu- 
trition of the jcast. Dr. Ix;e, tlie chemist 
for the Fleischmann Company, called on Dr. 
Koch of the University of Chicago to ask 
whether it would be possible to have a man 
work in the laboratory there on the nutri- 
tion of yeast to discover if possible why the 
malt sprouts are so important for yeast 
growth. The consent of the president of the 
University was obtained and the Fleisch- 
mann Company gave a fellowship of $1500 
to extend over two years. Dr. Williams 
who held the fellowship found that water- 
soluble \-itamine present in sprouting grain 
is one of the factors necessary for yeast 
growth, and incidentally suggested the growth 
of yeast as a means for testing the amount 
of water-soluble vitamine present in a solu- 
tion. 

The fellowship has been continued for 
another two years and has been granted to 
Mr. F. K. Swoboda who is trying to discover 
what effect different forins of nitrogen have 
on the growth of yeast. 

Courses on Child Care. Dr. Dorothy 
Reed Mendcnhall of the U. S. Children's 
Bureau is to give two courses on Child Care 
this summer at the University of Chicago, 
one on the Hygiene of Maternity and In- 
fancy and the other on the Hygiene of the 
Older Child. Observations will be made in 
the Child Health School for undenveight 
children which is to be held this summer 
under the auspices of the Home Economics 
Department primarily for the training of 
teachers for nutrition classes for children. 
Miss Lydia Roberts of the home economics 
faculty will be director of the school and Dr. 
Mendenhall and Dr. Walter Hoffmann of 
Rush Medical School will serve as medical 
advisors. 



1920] OMicRON mj 287 

OMICRON NU 

Alpha Chapter, the mother chapter of Omicron Nu, was organized at Mich- 
igan Agricultural College in April, 1912. Since its organization, meetings 
have been held often, this year two meetings a month, at which topics of 
interest have been discussed and sewing done. 

In the spring term of 1919 the annual tea for the Freshmen was held. The 
purpose of the tea is to acquaint the girls with the ideals and aims of Omi- 
cron Nu. In the fall term of 1920 plans for the year's work were discussed. 
Sewing for the United Charities of Lansing was a large part of the program. 
At Christmas Omicron Nu joined her efforts with those of the Y. W. C. A. 
in giving a Christmas tree and feast to the children of a very poor district 
near the College. 

Kappa Chapter elected to membership four former Washington State stu- 
dents who graduated in home economics previous to the estabhshment of our 
chapter. The new members, Elmina White, Ruth Kennedy, Inez Arnquist 
and Myrtle Boone, are county demonstration agents who have experienced 
unusual success in their work. They were in Pullman at a large convention 
of the extension workers of Washington. 

Omicron Nu's big event this semester, an at home or open house in Van 
Doren Hall, our home economics building, was held during the first part of 
May. Committees at work on the arrangements promise interesting features 
including exhibits of home economics work, a tea room, and a musical and 
dramatic entertainment. A sale of cakes, pies, and tarts was also held follow- 
ing the annual gymnasium show and attracted the large crowds assembled in 
the gymnasium that evening. 

Lambda Chapter of Omicron Nu took over the regular monthly meeting of 
the Home Economics Club at the Oregon Agricultural CoUege for the pur- 
pose of observing Ellen H. Richards' day. A special program with music was 
planned. 

Ava B. Milam, Dean of the School of Home Economics, spoke to the girls 
on the life of Ellen H. Richards, giving them the inspiration she had received 
from Mrs. Richards' life. 

Dean Milam also told of her trip East to attend the meeting of the Associa- 
tion of Agricultural Colleges and Experiment Stations at Chicago and the 
Council meeting of the American Home Economics Association. Dean Milam, 
while on this trip, also visited the schools of home economics at the Universi- 
ties of Chicago, lUinois, and Wisconsin, and Kansas State Agricultural College. 

Theta Chapter, located at the Kansas State Agricultural College, was recog- 
nized by every student in the institution as a factor in securing better condi- 
tions for practical home economics work, when the chapter secured for their 
college the Better Homes Institute. 



288 THE JOURNAL OF HOUE ECONOMICS (june 

The Institute, which consisted of eight numbers given by representatives 
sent out by the Chicago Art Institute, was held at the college auditorium from 
March 8 to 12. The programs given during the institute included ijiterior 
decoration demonstrations, dramatizations of home furnishings, and other 
practical demonstrations in which the audience was actually shown how to 
arrange and furnish a home. Generalized talks on planting the home grounds 
and building the home were also included in the program. 

Omicron Nu gained the cooperation of the club women of the city of Man- 
hattan in getting the ideas of the Institute before the public; the patronesses, 
who were chosen from the faculty and the townswomen, did much to interest 
the townspeople in the Institute. Teas were held after several of the programs 
at which those especially interested were given an opportunity to e.xamine 
more closely the art and architecture exhibits which accompanied the Institute. 
At these social affairs, the Omicron Nu girls, and the patronesses of the Insti- 
tute were hostesses. 

The Better Homes Institute, which was a financial as well as an artistic 
success, served as a means of getting the work of Omicron Nu before the pub- 
lic, and secured from the press much commendatory comment on the work 
of the organization. 



Vol. XII, No. 7 July, 1920 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in llomemaking, Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Kconomics 

Mrs. Auce P. Norton, Edilor Keturab E. Baldwin, Buiiness Editor 

Editorial Board 
Hftfi. Mary H. Abel C. F. Langwobtby Auy Dakiels Ruth Wheeler Etbelw^n Miller 

Ex-Officio Membeti — Edna N. White, President American Home Economics Associatioa 
Elsie Leonard, Chairman Institution Economics Section 
Katharine Blcnt, Chairman Science Section 
Mauie Bunch, Chairman Extension Education Section 
Mabel Trilling, Chairman Textile Section 

CMlaborators~-Tht Officers, Members of the Council, and Advisors 



CONTENTS 

Is THE Chinese Diet Adequate? Chi Che Wang 289 

The Place of the General Coukse in Home Econootcs Bertha }f. Terrill 294 

YouTHFLX Handiwork from Italy 297 

Future ADinNisTRATms I'roblems in Vocational Education in Home Economics 

Anna E. Richardson 299 

Practice Houses a Reality Dorothea Beach 308 

A Hospital Health Clinic Guendolyn Slanlon Hubbard 312 

The Science of Consumption Faith ifcAuley 317 

Intention Street 318 

For the Homemaker 

A Minimum Food Allowance and a Kasic Food Order Lucy H. Gillett 319 

A Clothing Intormation Bureau 325 

Kitchens 327 

Keeping Servants 328 

Food and Fare in Canada 329 

Editorial 

The Open Forum 332 

Books and Literature 333 

News from the Field 335 



The Journal of Hoim Economics is published monlhly by the American Home Economics Association 
$2.00 A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.35. CANADIAN J2.20. SINGLE COPIES 25 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Check, Eipross O.-dcr or Postal Money Order, payable to the 
American Home Economics Association. Currency unless mailed in a registered letter is at the sender's risk. 

NOTICE. \\'hcD payment is made by check no receipt will be sent unless requested. 

CHANGE IN ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent two weeks before the dale of issue on which 
Che change is to take effect. The subscriber's Old Address should be clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 1211 Cathedral St., Baltimore, Md. 

Tbi JoDRNAi OF HouE EcoNOUics is on sale at John Wanamaker's, Philadelphia: The Old Comer Book Store, Botton; 

A. C. McClurg's, Chicago; Baltimore News Company, Baltimore; Woodward and Lotbrop, Washington 



••AL vr uuue. t^unuuif,:>—AUY hki i:>i!.u : 




Q 



V r 




Royal 

BAKING POWDER 

is always given preference in those kitchens from 
which food of the highest quality is served. 

Ingredients of baking powder that are uncertain 
in action.digestion-retarding, badly compounded, 
or impure, are not only injurious to health, 
but make the food unpalatable. 

The cream of tartar of Royal Baking 
Powder has the same wholesome effect 
on the digestive system as the cream 
of tartar m grapes, from which it 
is derived. 



AjDSoluicl-y 
Pure 



In writing advertiseis, please mention Journal of Home Economics 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. Xn JULY, 1920 No. 7 

IS THE CHINESE DIET ADEQU.\TE? 

CHI CHE WANG 

Department of Home Economics, University of Chicago 

The Chinese people have a very varied diet — eggs, meat, fish, fruit, 
cereals, and a great variety of vegetables. The common notion that 
rice is their only food is far from true. Rice merely takes the place of 
the American bread. Some people, ignorant of the real condition in 
China have argued that if rice is the chief food then "surely the minerals, 
vitamines, and adequate proteins which are decidedly deficient in rice 
cannot really be necessary," but the facts are that the Chinese as a race 
probably have greater variety in their food than the Americans and more 
sources of the essentials of an adequate diet. 

Pork is their chief meat. It is used by practically all classes of people 
in all parts of China. .\ meal without pork is considered to be unusually 
simple and with the exception of vegetarians is used by slaves or very 
poor people only. Fresh pork is such a common food that wealthy 
people will not even touch it. During new year festivals and birthday or 
wedding celebrations a whole dressed hog or a half of it is often purchased 
and consumed by the family and their guests. Lamb, however, may be 
substituted for pork, but beef is considered more or less sacred and is 
very seldom used as food. The quantity of meat eaten is small; it is 
usually served cut into small pieces and mixed with vegetables in a great 
variety of ways. 

Fish and shellfish, including crabs, shrimps, lobsters, oysters, and the 
like, are always so much in demand that many fishermen raise them in 
their private ponds. Not onlj' are they sold at the market, but they 
may be purchased from the peddlers who go from house to house every 

289 



290 Tin-: journal of home kconomtcs (July 

morning. The peddler has a hcaNy bamboo stick across his shoulder, 
and suspended from each end of it is a big wooden tub containing a great 
variety of fish swimming lively in the water. Dead fish is either thrown 
away or given to cats and dogs; it is almost never considered fit for 
human food. 

Unlike Americans, who consider the muscle of an animal almost the 
only edible part, the Chinese people eat practically every bit of the ani- 
mal excepting hair and bones — the brain, spinal cord, and the various 
organs, even the skin and the blood. The blood is permitted to coagu- 
late after it is drawn from the animal and comes on the market in brown- 
ish cake-like pieces, which look like liver. The people are entirely 
without the feeling of repulsion toward it that the occidental has. Blood 
is one of the inexpensive foods and is therefore used quite liberally. 
Very little work on its food value has been reported. However, it is a 
known fact that carnivorous animals, which eat not only the flesh and 
organs of an animal but blood and bone marrow as well, can live for gen- 
erations and generations on their prey alone. On the other hand, lab- 
oratory animals cannot survive more than a few months on a diet of 
either meat or organs as the sole source of food supply. This fact seems 
to show that blood furnishes at least a part of the constituents necessary 
to life, which are either lacking or deficient in flesh and organs. It 
seems, therefore, that the liberal use of blood has probably helped the 
natives in getting an adequate diet. 

Although large chicken farms are absolutely unkown in China, I have 
no doubt that more chickens are raised there every year than in this 
country. Everybody who owns a little piece of back yard raises a few 
chickens and several ducks. They are, therefore, sold both at the mar- 
ket and by peddlers. From market one need not buy a whole fowl, 
but may purchase such part as is desired, for example, a half dozen duck's 
heads or a dozen duck's feet to use in soup, or ten or more duck's tongues 
to prepare the delicacy of duck's tongues cooked with ham. Fowl are 
more expensive than either pork or fish and therefore are almost never 
used b}' the poor. However, they are consumed so extensively by the 
wealthy that they furnish probably their chief source of adequate pro- 
tein. Geese, pigeons, turkeys, pheasants, and many other domestic 
and wild birds are also used as food, but owing to their scarcity, they 
are considered more or less as a delicacy. 

Eggs are used ver\' freely in the Chinese diet, not only hen's eggs but 
duck's and pigeon's. As in America they are cooked in many ways — 



1920] IS THE CHI>fESE DIET ADEQUATE 291 

boUed, fried, scrambled — and in addition they are used for seasoning, 
garnishing, making noodles, and preserving. Thus eggs in one form or 
another are almost always found in chop suey, chow mein (fried noodles), 
won dung (meat dumpling), mein ee (something like pan cake), and many 
other dishes. One of the forms of eggs of which Chinese people are very 
fond is the so-called "tea eggs." To prepare these, fresh hen's eggs are 
hard boiled, the shells cracked, and the eggs then cooked for hours in a 
mixture of tea infusion, salt, spice, and soy bean sauce. When the price of 
eggs is low "tea eggs" are often prepared and kept warm on the stove 
so that any member of the family may help himself to them as Ameri- 
cans do to candy or nuts. Hen's eggs are usually very cheap. Ten 
years ago they were sold at three for a penny. People of moderate 
means usually bought them by the hundred and kept them on hand all 
the year around. An ordinary day's diet for a family easily contains a 
half dozen eggs or even more. Even poor people who keep their own 
hens use eggs fairly freely. Slaves and servants, however, are given 
only a few, for vegetables are usually cheaper and the eggs regarded as 
no more desirable. 

A distinctly Chinese use of eggs is for preservation. At least three 
dilTerent kinds are produced — hulidan or salted duck's eggs, dsaudan 
or fermented eggs, and pidan, the so-called "Chinese old eggs." The 
first kind is prepared either by simply immersing fresh duck's eggs in a 
saturated cold solution of common salt or by coating them with a mix- 
ture of salt and red earth or wood ashes. After one month or longer 
they are ready for use. They are eaten hard boiled and their appear- 
ance is not much different from fresh eggs. 

" Fermented eggs" are not so simple to make. To prepare them clean 
fresh duck's eggs are packed in jars containing a mixture of salt, clay, 
and fermented boiled rice and stored away for six months or so. The 
shell of the egg has then been dissolved entirely or softened and the 
inner membrane of the shell is greatly thickened. The egg is somewhat 
coagulated, and looks like a soft boiled egg, but it has a strong wine-like 
taste and odor. 

Pidan, the third kind, is a factory rather than a home product. The 
fresh duck's eggs are washed, coated one by one with a mixture of lime, 
wood ashes, salt, and tea infusion, and stored away for six months to a 
year or even longer. Then they are covered further with rice hull and 
are ready for the market. By this time the texture of the egg is almost 
like that of hard boiled eggs, the yolk is greenish gray, the white looks 



292 THE JOmNAL OF HOMK ECONOMICS [July 

exactly like coffee jelly, brown in color and translucent. The egg has 
an ammoniacal odor which is decidedly difTerent from that of spoiled 
eggs. It tastes salt and slightly pungent. .All the natives are very 
fond of it and consider it more or less as a delicacy, using it in the same 
way as Americans use cheese. 

It is partly this extensive use of eggs by the Chinese people that makes 
their diet adequate, supplying the necessary adequate proteins, salts, 
and vitamines. Milk they use little or none. Cows as domestic animals 
are employed only for draft purpose. Babies, invalids, and the aged 
are sometimes given human milk, but the usual child and adult never 
tastes milk at all. Mothers nurse their children for long periwls and 
then sometimes secure a wet nurse to prolong the nursing till the child 
is a year and a half to two years old. 

Vegetables are used much more freely by the Chinese people than by 
Americans. In addition to the common ones such as spinach, cabbage, 
potatoes, radishes, and the like, many plants and weeds are eaten which 
are not usually considered as food in .\m erica. Thus radish leaves, shep- 
herd purse, bamboo sprouts, and a large number of sea weeds are used as 
food. Being lovers of vegetables the Chinese people are skilled in culti- 
vating them and in manufacturing new food articles from them. There 
are at least six or seven varieties of spinach diflfering from each other in 
the size of the plants, the size of the leaves, the length of stems, and the 
thickness of leaves. The one which grows most abundantly in the cen- 
tral eastern part of China looks somewhat like cabbage. It differs from 
the latter in that it has large, thick, straight leaves which are rather 
loose and very few in number. This plant contains so much fat that the 
vegetable oil which the natives use is made from it. With the exception 
of about two months it is produced all the year around. It is extremely 
inexpensive and is often bought by the ton. It is often dehydrated or 
preserved by means of salt and spices. 

Even more abundant than spinach is soy bean. There are no less 
than twenty difTerent varieties of it, and from them some thirty or more 
bean products are manufactured. Tu-fu (bean curd), fun-see (noodles 
made from bean flour), and nga-tsai (bean sprouts) are some of the bean 
products. Bean sprouts are especially interesting. They are one of the 
most inexpensive foods and are used in large quantity by every Chinese. 
There are three different kinds of them — all equally delicious. One is 
made from small green beans, while the other two are from larger beans 
of different color. All beans are known to contain water-soluble B, but 



1920] IS THE CHINESE DIET ADEQUATE 293 

the soy bean contains also a considerable amount of fat-soluble A. 
Beans, on sprouting, have been found to develop their xitamine content, 
including the antiscorbutic vitamine. Thus sprouted beans have been 
used to cure scurvy. From the above facts it may be seen that bean 
sprouts make a good source of the three vitamines, and their liberal use 
in China must therefore have supplied one of the protective foods. 

There is not so much difference in the use of cereal products in China 
and the United States as is usually thought. In the south and the cen- 
tral eastern part of China where rice is produced abundantly it takes the 
place of wheat, but in the north, such as Peking and Shantung, wheat, 
corn, and millet seed are used rather than rice. The rice usually is un- 
polished. Polished rice is a rather expensive luxury limited to the rich. 
The wheat flour used in the north is white, much like American flour, 
l)ut probably it is not so highly mQled. The millet seed, ground or 
whole, is made into cakes or a thin mush eaten especially by children. 
As far as taste is concerned it is decidedly less palatable than either rice 
or wheat products, but its food value is probably higher than either of 
them. Dr. McCollum has found that unlike other cereals, millet seed 
contains a considerable amount of fat-soluble A. 

In very poor families instead of meat and other more expensive foods 
the ration consists chiefly of unpolished rice (or, in the north, of millet 
seed and corn), bean curd, green onions, sometimes salt fish, and invari- 
ably a large quantity of leafy vegetables including bean sprouts. Owing 
to the choice of foods it seems to me that there is less danger of inade- 
quate diet in China than in this country. The eggs, blood, bean sprouts, 
and the liberal quantity of leafy vegetables have probably served as the 
protective foods in China. 



294 THE JOURNAL OF HOUE ECONOMICS (July 

THE PLACK OF THE GENER.\L COURSE IN HOME 
ECONOMICS' 

BERTHA M, TERRILL 
University of Vermont 

I know not to what extent accident or design controlled our chairman 
in asking me to present a discussion of the subject assigned me. I am 
certain that I could hardly have chosen a more congenial topic. What 
greater challenge to one who experiences increasing appreciation of a 
background of college work for both classical and literary degrees before 
taking up the study of home economics than this part of her letter: 
"Is there any longer a place for a general course in home economics? 
Some think there is not." I could not resist that. I confess I was 
shocked and appalled at the statement, for I had not realized that we 
had gone so far in our enthusiasm for the work in which we as a group 
must profoundly believe, but which I sincerely think we can in no way 
so successfully defeat as by such an attitude. Dare I add without 
danger of misunderstanding and ofTense, as a too discourteous champion, 
that I have been more than once forced to use great restraint not to 
point out to those berating the arts courses as designed for much waste 
of time, that the very English in which they contended would seem to 
prove the value of further lingering within the class rooms where 
language appreciations are essentially obtained? 

But let us come to our subject. What is a general course in home eco- 
nomics? I take it that this may be either a course intended for those 
not definitely decided upon a vocation and therefore not wishing to 
specialize or a course containing the fundamentals of home economics in 
its various phases without attempting specialization through advanced 
courses in any one particular phase of the subject. This term may be 
applied, I should suppose, either to a course in the College of Arts and 
Sciences which recognizes a minor elective in home economics, or to a 
course leading to a degree in home economics in which the required home 
economics is of a general nature, rather than specialized, in food, cloth- 
ing, household management, and the like. Defense of a general course 
seems to me to involve an appreciation of a general admixture of subjects 
other than home economics and also a sufficiently broad representation 

' Presented at the Thirty-third .\nnual Convention of the .Association of .\merican .\gri- 
cultural Colleges and Experiment Stations, Chicago, Xovember, 1919. Published also in 
the Proceedings of the Association. 



1920] THE PLAC3E OF THE GENERAL COURSE 295 

of all the phases of home economics to give a well-rounded acquaintance 
with its subject matter rather than a highly specialized grasp of a limited 
field. 

In the first place, we cannot afford to lose sight for a moment of the 
great basic reason for education, by which I beheve that every under- 
graduate course should be carefully tested. This leads to a recognition 
of the five-fold intellectual inheritance as the most precious of posses- 
sions for any human being, and that as surely as we profit by inheriting 
the experience of others in ways of doing the things to be done in life, so 
we may acquire invaluable aid in self-direction and ser^^ce by appropri- 
ating the thought life of the past. This inheritance has been helpfully 
subdi\'ided for us into the five groups of our scientific, literary, esthetic 
or artistic, institutional, and religious inheritances. Recognition of the 
value of each of these groups is to be found in all past orthodox curricula 
and an appreciation of the value of each of these gives significance to 
the chemistry, language, music, history, education, comparative relig- 
ions, Bible or other ethical courses prescribed as requirements. No one 
of these groups can be ignored without intellectual crippling, arrested 
development, a limiting of mental efficiency. The more fully election 
is made from each and all, the more splendid and rich the equipment. 
In view of this it seems to me that those who have the arrangement of a 
required course of undergraduate study have a grave responsibility to 
see to it that a student is not allowed to specialize in any of these groups 
to the exclusion of some knowledge of all of them, the more evenly dis- 
tributed, the better. In this lies the danger of a too free elective sys- 
tem. Of course wide free choice still remains as to the particular sci- 
ence, historj-, literature or language a student pursues, in defense of 
which I should say that it remains with the teacher of the first essay into 
either one of these fields to make the subject matter so compellingly 
essential to the student that life thereafter becomes a further search 
into the varied resources of that group. 

Sad as physical defects are, can there be a sadder spectacle or experi- 
ence than that resulting from intellectual blindness, deafness, or dumb- 
ness in an age so appealing for many-sided reactions, so rich in all it 
offers both of personal appropriation and opportunities to share? Merely 
from the standpoint of success do we not see at the present time as a 
result of rash ignoring of these essentials for development, pitiful fail- 
ures not due to lack of specific knowledge, but to ill-fitting adjustment 
through lack of appreciations? It is the most common criticism I hear, 
and I believe it an especial danger in vocational training. 



296 TH>: JOURNAL OF HOME FXONOMICS [July 

But perhaps we are not so far apart in the ideal as it sometimes seems. 
There still remains the question of whether such a general course is pos- 
sible. Do students or their parents want it? Can an institution hold 
to it as an ideal, divergencies being frankly recognized as necessarily un- 
fortunate compromises in some cases. I believe that it can, and that 
there should be such a course. Therefore, while entirely endorsing voca- 
tional training as highly desirable during undergraduate study, I believe 
very firmly that few undergraduate students are able to decide, at least 
before senior year, what their happiest selection in vocation is to be. 
Perhaps my own five years of teaching Greek before I found myself 
colors this conviction, although I rerognize present day improvement in 
vocational opportunities. 

I believe strongly, moreover, in the dwarfing which must result from 
crystalizing interest in study upon a given subject or group of subjects 
too early. An undergraduate student should be an octopus, reaching 
out hungrily in every possible direction with the eagerness, which gives 
zest, of not knowing in which direction the richest food supply is coming. 
This much conceded, I am wholly ready to give place with all my heart 
to a reasonable amount of such applied material as courses in home eco- 
nomics present, believing that if properly presented, they quicken inter- 
est in, and desire for, the more abstract material. But I cannot believe 
that undergraduate work in home economics should ever be allowed to be 
so specialized, that, later, teachers of foods have no proper conception 
of clothing, or vice versa, and I believe that our departments today are 
weakened by the presence of some thus wrongly limited. 

Now I have not spoken in ignorance of what the actual working condi- 
tions for all this are today. There is intense pressure away from such a 
course, at a time when young women are needing and seeking highly 
vocational training as never before, and when special funds would limit 
for specific use all teaching done under their aid. It is no child's prob- 
lem for a small institution, of limited facilities especially, to determine 
what to do. I can only declare that personally my deepest interest and 
belief is in the undergraduate courses in home economics ofTered as elec- 
tives to students in the college of arts and sciences, which are made as rich 
and full of subject matter as is possible in junior and senior years. Xext 
to this comes my regard for the general home economics course which 
gives place to as large recognition of language, English, history, art, 
general science as possible, with so much of general courses in home eco- 
nomics as will prepare for intelligent homemaking or teaching in a junior- 



1920] YOUTHFUL HANDIWORK FROM ITALY 297 

senior high school. The true student who needs more will return at her 
earliest opportunity for graduate work in her chosen field. She will 
never go back for the general courses. 

So strong is my conviction in this that when the test came, I insisted 
that for our institution such a course must stand, whether acceptable for 
special purposes or not, and no modification has been made except the 
introduction of a course in special methods. This with two possible 
electives has, fortunately, been sufficient to make our course acceptable 
for all that is a.sked of us at present. 

I was greatly encouraged last year to believe that I was not wholly out- 
run and that the possibility of this sort of home economics is still with us, 
on being asked, by those interested in the introduction of the study into 
the curriculum of one of the leading colleges of the Middle West, whether 
I could suggest a teacher with this point of \dew. I was assured that the 
seeming lack of such was a chief deterrent in the introduction of the 
work. That that college is not yet provided for makes me fear that the 
variety is growing too rare. Those of us who were so fortunate as to 
know Mrs. Richards, and to appreciate her ideals, consider earnestly our 
obligation to continue the respect which she created for the study, by 
virtue of her own broad training and interests and the vision she had 
for the work. 



YOUTHFUL HANDIWORK FROM IT.\LY 

Some of the most prized articles in several American homes today are 
exquisite little vases, boxes, and trays made by the childish fingers of 
small Italian refugees. These were brought home by American Red 
Cross workers from that land of beauty and art where even the children 
were imbued with an understanding of color and design. In spite of the 
youthfulness of the artisans, much of this handiwork has real artistic 
merit. 

The potter>^ came from Monteporzio, where the Red Cross had a 
school for boys whose parents were lost or left behind in the evacuated 
districts. One of the directors of this school was a student from the 
American Academy at Rome and under his training many of the boys 
became cjuite skillful in decorative work. 



298 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS |July 

In Avellino, novelties in wood were made. Avellino is the center of 
a wood working district and the boys who worked in the industrial 
groups of the American Red Cross asili turned out some clever car\ed 
and painted wooden toys for use in Iheir playground, for which, inci- 
dentally, they made all the equipment themselves. 

In Venice the children made a specialty of cross stitch work and hand 
sewing. With their line sense of color and harmony even the pieces done 
by the smallest children showed ability and Uiste in design. One little 
girl of six made an embroidered square, with the Italian and .American 
tlags, joined by the symlx)l of the Red Cross, in the center, and an em- 
broidered motto across the top, entirely in cross stitch. This bit of 
work equals in execution the sampler of grandmother's day and is far in 
advance of any handiwork the average American child of today could 
make at the same tender age. 

The children of this same asili made complicated little lira cases too, 
those queer foreign purses, which you turn one way and your lira notes 
are in, and you turn another and they are out! These are made of scraps 
from the workrooms, and painted or embroidered in attractive designs. 

Not only in the schools and asili for children were interesting bits of 
handiwork made. In the workrooms where the American Red Cross 
gave emplojTnent to hundreds of refugee women and untrained wives of 
soldiers, every scrap of material was utilized. F"rom these left over bits 
of goods, "hit or miss" rag rugs were knitted or crocheted, and Friuli 
shoes, the soles made entirely from cloth, quilted and pounded, were 
manufactured. 

The greatest service the American Red Cross rendered to the soldiers 
of Italy was in the care of their children, a care which these impetuous 
little southern folk will not soon forget. On one July 4th, the boys of 
Monteporzio held a celebration and exhibition of their work in honor of 
the Americans, which those who were present will always remember. 

One boy, trim in brown uniform and Boy Scout hat, spoke for them 
all. "Oh, my mother," he finished, "up behind that curtain of blood 
and fire that separates us, read in the stars of Heaven that beneath other 
stars, the starry flag of America, your little son has found safety and 
tender care." 



1920] FUTTJRE ADMINISTRATIVE FItOBLJBHS 299 

FUTURE ADMINISTRATIVE PROBLEMS IN VOCATION.AL 
EDUCATION IN HOME ECONOMICS' 

AXNA E. RiaiARDSON 
Assistant Director for Home Economics Education, Federal Board for Vocational Education 

I wish very briefly to discuss with you some of the problems of the 
administration of home economics education — the groups of women to 
be reached by such training, the school's responsibility for providing all 
the facilities and factors which enter into a complete program of home- 
making education, and the need of providing adequately trained voca- 
tional teachers. These are problems in which both the federal govern- 
ment and the states are mutually concerned. The national government 
has assumed its responsibility in the matter of training women for the 
vocation of homemaking by the inclusion of home economics, along with 
agriculture and trade and industry, in the Federal Vocational Education 
Act. The 48 states likewise have assumed responsibility both by their 
acceptance of the provisions of the act and, on the part of a number of 
states, by the enactment of further legislation which provides additional 
state funds to establish schools and classes for homemaking instruction. 

After almost three years of work under the act, we find that a good 
beginning has been made, but that there are many problems involved in 
the administration of home economics education yet. to solve. Have 
we, as state and federal people, really analyzed our job of administration? 
Have we carefully studied the needs of the women and girls who should 
be reached by this instruction, and then planned a program' which will 
meet those needs? We are all tied pretty closely to the school and its 
point of view. Have we not very generally attempted to formulate a 
plan for vocational education which will fit into our present school system, 
rather than a program planned after studying the problem of h me- 
making in our state and the needs of our girls and women, as we have 
found them? IIow shall we set about outlining a program which is 
truly based upon the needs of our homemakers? Unquestionably the 
first step is to find out those needs. The homemaking problems facing 
a mother who has a family to care for are not the same as those witli which 
the girl is concerned who is just now preparing for housekeeping, nor are 

' Paper read before the meeting of the National Society for Vocational Education, Chi- 
cago, February, 1920. I\iblished also in the Proceedings of the Society. 



.KK) TIU-: JOURNAL OF HOUE ECONOmCS U^'y 

they the same for the young woman wh(j is employed outside of the home 
and yet who keeps house for herself and other members of her family. 
We can not, therefore, study those needs in general terms, but will fmd 
it more satisfactory to study the homemaker's needs in relation to the 
groups to be reached by homcmaking instruction. 

All of our girls and women may be roughly divided into three large 
groups : 

(1) The women employed in the occupation of homemaking, either in 
their own home or for wage earning in some one's else home. 

(2) The girls and women employed outside of homes in industrial or 
commercial occupations. 

(3) The girls who arc still in school. 

Is homemaking training desirable for all of these groups? The whole 
problem of training women for homemaking is complicated by the fact 
that more than 80 per cent of our women do eventually go into their own 
homes and practice homemaking as their chief occupation, and that the 
majority of the remainder practice some phases of the vocation, even 
though employed outside of the home in wage-earning occupations. 

The W'Omen employed in full-time homemaking comprise the largest 
group needing vocational training, for homemaking is still the occupation 
into which more persons enter than into any other one occupation. 
Women enter this vocation with various degrees of skill and efficiency, 
which must be supplemented by training if they are to carry on the work 
of the home in such a way that the ideals of our family life are to be pre- 
ser\-ed and we are to rear a happy, healthy .American people. 

With the sentiment of the countrj- steadily growing in favor of part- 
time classes for all workers from 14 to 16 or 18 years of age, and with 
the passage of compulsory part-time laws in 18 states, we have, through 
these classes, an opportunity to serve an increasingly large number of 
girls. Our problem is not so clearly defined for this group of wage earn- 
ers outside of the home as it is for the women employed in homemaking 
pursuits. The majority of these girls have little education, general or 
vocational, and their chief concern is to earn a lix-ing. They make up 
the great group of unskilled labor in factories, mills, and other industrial 
plants, and their chance for advancement is slight unless opportunity is 
given to them to add to their meager education. WTierever the employ- 
ment of these girls is such that part-time trade extension classes can be 
offered, they should have them. This is an important point for home 
economics people to clearly see, for sometimes in our enthusiasm we are 



1920] FUTURE ADMINISTRATIVE PROBLEMS 301 

apt to feci that every group of factory girls should he given homemaking 
instruction. Unquestionably there should be homemaking classes for 
those girls who expect soon to assume homemaking responsibilities, or 
who wish preparation for wage earning in some homemaking cocupation. 
This group is comparable to the part-time trade preparatory classes which 
are organized on the basis of a contract of employment; but, for the 
greater number, who do not expect immediately to assume full home- 
making responsibilities, should vocational training be ofTered? Yes, 
but not at a sacrifice to their wage-earning opportunities. Ob\'i- 
ously the occupation of many of these women is a dual one, — with part 
of the time spent in homemaking activities, while the greater part of 
the time is spent in a wage-earning pursuit outside of the home. Should 
they not nevertheless be eligible for vocational training in home eco- 
nomics? Such women do not practice homemaking in its entirety, but 
they have some very real problems of food, clothing, and shelter with 
which to contend, and they need help in solving them. 

Educators are practically agreed that the two groups just outlined 
should be reached by vocational courses in home economics. Concern- 
ing the third group, which is made up of girls who are in school, there 
seems to be considerable variance of opinion. There are those who 
maintain that there should be no vocational courses in home economics 
open to normal high school girls, while there are others who feel that all 
home economics properly taught and rightly chosen is vocational. It has 
been di£Scult to see clearly the problems of vocational education in the 
day school, for the issue has been beclouded by the fact that day school 
is only now getting its bearing in relation to community needs. It was 
comparatively simple as long as its chief function was to give general 
education in schools and pass on as many of the pupils as possible to 
higher institutions. But now that the question is being asked, What is 
the school doing for the boys and girls who drop out? — and when first 
one community interest and then another questions the value of the 
school and what it is giving in the way of training to fit boys and girls 
for work, the problem begins to be more clearly defined and the function 
of the day school in reaching the groups through vocational education 
becomes more evident. 

The girls of over fourteen who are in school divide themselves pretty 
generally into three groups. First, a large group who are in high school 
simply because they are sent there. They have little choice and do not 
much care what course they follow. The future is hazy and they take 



302 THl': JOUILNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Ju'y 

little heed of tomorrow. The second group is made up of girls wh(j know 
that pretty soon they must get to work, and therefore they are anxious 
to have training which will put them into emploNTnent. The third 
group is made up of those who fully expect to go on through high school 
and priibably on to normal school or college. Should all of these groups 
be given vocational home economics education? From the standpoint 
that they are all girls who have some share in the life of the home, and 
from the fact that the majority of them will eventually have a much 
larger share, Yes. If, however, vocational home economics courses 
are to be limited to those girls who expect to go directly into their own 
homes, then we must exclude from this training the groups who expect 
to enter other vocations. 

Should assurance of immediate placement in the occupation deter- 
mine whether or not a course is vocational? Or should not rather the 
avowed aim of the course, and the fact that the instruction offered is 
chosen to carry out that aim, determine that a course is either vocational 
or designed for general education training? 

Agreeing generally on the groups who should be reached by homemak- 
ing training, our next big problem is: How shall we determine the kind 
of instruction which should be offered? I shall neither have the time 
nor do I wish to discuss courses of study, but I do wish to point out a 
few guide posts in determining the choice of the instruction material in 
a vocational program. The many queries indicate that our choice of sub- 
ject matter is still largely dominated by the ideals of general education. 
We have not clearly enough in mind the demands of the vocation and 
the necessity for these demands dominating our training, if we are really 
to offer vocational education which will get results. 

The homemaking needs are not identical for the three groups as set 
up above, and the choice of subject matter taught should not be the same 
for all groups. Homemaking, as has been said, is a composite occupa- 
tion. The modern home is much less a production plant than it was, 
yet the home is and will continue to be concerned with productive jobs; 
and the woman is, therefore, a worker in the several semi-skilled occu- 
pations which are practiced in the home. In addition, the homemaker's 
job is a management job. She is largely responsible for the buying of 
supplies, the planning of the work in the home, and the management of 
the family life. No two homes offer quite the same conditions and the 
management and work jobs vary with the income, size of family, location 
of home, and the native talent and abilitv of the homemaker. For one 



1920] FUTURE AX)MINISTRATIVE PROBLEMS 303 

homemaker the job is largely that of a worker in the various occupations 
that make up the life in the home; for another it is largely that of a 
manager of a business enterprise; for the majority it combines both ele- 
ments. 

Recognizing that homemaking is a composite vocation made up of 
several fairly clearly defined occupations which are frequently practiced 
independently, shall we not arrive more quickly at our determination of 
the kinds of instruction to offer if we analyze each of the occupations 
separately, and from such analyses determine the occupational needs 
and the content of instruction? We can not hope to deal satisfactorily 
with these problems wholesale, but there are common occupations which 
form, in varying degrees, a part of practically all homemakers' jobs, and 
the training which is needed for the several groups differs mainly in the 
extent to which these occupations form a part of homemaking for 
each group. 

For the group employed in homemaking activities the instruction of- 
ered should do three things. First, it must offer opportunity to learn 
simple processes as they are carried on in the home; second, it must 
supplement any skill which the home worker already possesses and in- 
crease her ability to do the work of the home; and third, it must develop 
an understanding and appreciation of what the job as a whole means, 
develop managerial ability and appreciation for the finer and more spir- 
itual and aesthetic side of homemaking. The extent to which these 
three aims of instruction can be carried out will depend upon the ability, 
general education, and training of the women. 

In planning instruction for this group it must be remembered 
that at most, the homemaker will come for only short unit courses 
offered two or three times a week, so that the opportunities are 
necessarily limited and the instruction material will have to be chosen 
carefully. Theoretical education will have little place. Text books and 
courses of study which deal with general phases of homemaking should 
be discarded. The woman needs specific help to do her job. To illus- 
trate — a theory of budget making availeth nothing. Her problem is to 
feed, clothe, house, and provide education and recreation for a family 
of five on $1500. It is a definite problem, and if you are to help her you 
must deal with it. She keeps house in a city apartment; the problems 
of house construction, heating, proper arrangement of rooms so as to 
secure southern exposure for nursery or living room, mean little to her. 
She needs to know how she can provide adequate heat, air, and sunshine 
for the baby in a three-room apartment on the north side of the house. 



304 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

Neither must we rest content with merely ojjering courses; we must 
see to it that the women are reached, interested, and attracted to come 
for instruction. This is not an easy job; it is the hardest that we have. 
We have so little machinery, no compulsory attendance laws, no hope 
of advancement in wages for most of those who come — nothing to bring 
them, unless we have something to give which they want. In teaching 
such groups the teacher and the content of instruction are both on trial, 
as the class is made up of rather discriminating critics. But it is worth 
all the eiTort we can put forth. Remember we do not dare to neglect 
the home; for ever)' day the child, the hope of tomorrow, goes forth what 
he is, because of that home. With about twenty million women to 
reach through short courses, we can not feel that we have a really na- 
tional vocational program until a large proportion of them are reached. 

The instruction in homemaking oiTered for the group of girls who are 
employed outside of their homes should be based upon their immediate 
needs. We must commence our training of this girl where we find her 
and build upon her own homemaking interests, which for the most part 
center around her clothes, her looks, her budget for living on SI 5 a week, 
and her food. She is interested not so much in problems of construction 
of clothing, but in its choice, renovation, and care. As these girls are in 
school for from six to eight hours a week and many of them for more 
than a year, systematic instruction should be ofTered which will teach 
fundamental homemaking processes, as well as the essential related in- 
struction and general education which will make them intelligent work- 
ers either in their own homes or in occupations outside of the home. 

The aim of the instruction in home economics given to the girls in 
school will vary, as was pointed out earlier, with the dillerent groups of 
girls found in school. For tlie girl who has made her choice of home- 
making either to be followed in her own home or as a basis for wage 
earning in some one of the occupations practiced in the home, the course 
should be organized as a homemaking preparatory course, for it seems 
only sound to judge a vocational course on the basis of aim, content, and 
avowed choice of the student. 

Is home economics as given to all girls of over 14 years of age vocational, 
or is it to be accepted as a part of their general education? I am ready 
to grant that it is vocational, but for what vocation is it designed? The 
vocation of house daughter? Is it taught primarily from the point of 
\\fw of training the homemaker, or is its avowed aim to train a girl for 
her share in the life of the family? I can not settle this problem, but I 



1920] FUTURE ADMrNISTRATnrE PROBLEMS 305 

think it is one that as administrators we must squarely face. If we are 
to offer a vocational course for a house daughter, let us recognize it as 
such and carefully study the problem as to how best to train the girl for 
her immediate needs as a member of her family and as a worker in her 
mother's home. Let us determine the amount and kind of homemaking 
instruction necessary to make of her a good house daughter. If, on the 
other hand, we are training her to be a homemaker, let us agree to this and 
set to work to analyze the homemaker's Job and base our instruction on 
this analysis. 

We have never satisfactorily determined what the instructional content 
of our homemaking course shall be. We have never made a thorough- 
going study of the successful homemaker and the elements of her suc- 
cess. I agree that we have based our instruction upon home practice 
and that the best home usage has been our guide, but we have not made 
a very careful study of the contributing agencies that make for suc- 
cessful homemaking, nor have we formulated these into homemaking 
courses. Have we determined the processes involved in the occupa- 
tion of homemaking and have we classified these processes in the order 
of their learning difficulties? 

We have been offering good home economics courses, but have we 
been offering a course designed to train our young people to be home- 
makers? Do we know the amount of time necessary to train a girl in 
the fundamental operations of the work of the home and at the same 
time give her sufficient related instruction to make of her an inteUigent, 
independent worker? Have we agreed upon whether the length of 
the homemaking course should be six months, or one or two years? 
Should it be offered 90 minutes a day, or for two and one-half or 
three hours? Shall we devote part of our half day to related subjects; 
and if so, what shall we teach? Shall we require supervised home pro- 
ject work of all girls taking vocational work in home economics? It is 
impossible to teach all of the vocation of homemaking to the girl in 
school. We can not hope that the day school will turn out a 100 per 
cent product, therefore we must needs decide the amount of skill, man- 
agerial ability, scientific and artistic appreciation which should be given 
as a part of our homemaking training. 

The third problem which we, as administrators, face is that of pro- 
viding adequately trained teachers. In vocational education, even 
more than in general education, the success of the work will depend upon 
the teacher. The institutions of the country are each year graduating 



306 THE JOtHNAL OF HOME ECONOUICS [July 

girls well trained in the scientific aspects of home economics, but are we 
training many good teachers of homcmaking? Furthermore, the chief 
interest and concern of the institutions has been to train the teacher 
for the all-day school. As we have earlier pointed out, this is only a 
small part of the problem of homcmaking teaching, for the great group 
of our people are yet to be reached through evening schools and short 
courses. 

A number of the states have gone after this problem with some serious- 
ness. Particularly is this true of Massachusetts, New York, and Cali- 
fornia. In the main, the recruits for these teacher- training classes have 
been women with trade experience or housekeeping experience. The 
young, inexperienced girl has been barred. The trade-trained woman has 
proved to be a teacher very successful in dealing with the practical house- 
wife enrolled in the short unit courses, for she has to deal only with the 
phase of homcmaking which she knows from long experience. This is 
particularly true in millinery or dressmaking, where the trade standard is 
the desired standard for all garments made. These potential teachers 
have training and vocational experience, and the further need is to give 
them the type of pedagog)- which will enable them to put o\er their 
knowledge to their students. 

Ideally our short course teachers should be picked by hand, for the 
successful teacher must not only know her subject and how to teach 
it, but she must know her students and their needs. She must know 
the general home standards of her class and be in full s>Tnpathy with 
its problems. For this reason the trade teacher docs not always 
successfully teach the care, renovation, and remodeling, of clothing 
with the success of the woman who has worked more nearly under 
home conditions. Great care has to be taken in choosing women who 
can successfully work with the foreign-born woman. To reach her 
you must know her standards of life in her native country and her social 
and religious prejudices, which have to be reckoned with. Tact and 
sjTiipathy on the part of the teacher will go far in arriving at the real 
needs of the foreign-born woman and in determining how best to help her. 

I have attempted to show that the big problem before us, both as 
federal and state administrators, is the working out of a real program 
for vocational education in home economics, based upon a study of the 
needs as revealed in the analysis of the homcmaking occupation as it is 
practiced by the various groups; that we have been too apt to follow 



1920] FUTTIRE ADMINISTRATIVE PROBLEMS 307 

the well-beaten path as marked out for general education, rather than 
to strike out and determine content and method for vocational courses; 
and that the great challenge to us is to reach with vocational education 
the large group of girls and women who are out of school, as well as the 
small group who are in school. 

There has recently been introduced into Congress at the earnest re- 
quest of the American Home Economics Association and the General 
Federation of Women's Clubs a bill to further extend the opportunities 
for homemaking training. This bill proposes to: (1) remove home eco- 
nomics from that section in the law where it is now included with trade 
and industry. In this way standards may be set up for home economics 
which are more nearly suited to the needs and conditions of the vocation 
of homemaking. (2) To appropriate additional funds for homemaking 
education. In the present act the fund available for home economics is 
20 per cent, or one-fifth of the trade and industries fund. (3) To ap- 
propriate the fund on the basis of total population; the present fund 
which may be used for home economics is apportioned to the states on 
the basis of the urban population. As 31 of the states have a larger 
rural than urban population, and as the need for homemaking training 
is as great in rural as in urban centers, a more equitable adjustment of 
these funds will come from an apportionment on the basis of total 
population. 

This legislation offers increased vocational opportunities for training 
women. With this legislation pending it is imperative that we stop 
and think of some of these problems that are before us. Are we making 
the most of our opportunities? Have we a real program for vocational 
education in home economics which can be supported and pushed by the 
states and the national government? 



308 Tin-; joltinal of home economics [July 

PRACTICE HOUSES A REALITY 

DOROTHEA BEACH 
Unhcrsily of ^[aine 

In order to help formulate plans for a Practice House at the Univer- 
sity of Maine, a questionnaire was sent out in January, 1919, to seventy- 
six institutions, including thirty-five state colleges and universities, 
twenty-one colleges, thirteen state normal schools and state teachers* 
colleges, and seven institutes. The information desired was asked for 
in the following form : 

1. Have you a practice house? (a) Owned by whom? (b) How 
many rooms? 

2. How many girls work at once in the practice house? (a) Wliat 
length of time does each group work? (b) Do girls live in the practice 
house while working there? (c) Are other studies carried on while 
students work in the practice house? 

3. How many instructors superintend work in the practice house? 
(a) Do they reside there? (b) Do they do any other teaching? (c) 
Do they pay for their board and room? 

4. Is work in the practice house required or given as an elective? 
(a) Is the work given in junior or senior year? (b) How large is the 
junior or senior class? (c) How many credit hours are given for prac- 
tical work? (d) How many credit hours of work do students carry 
with their practical work? 

5. How are the expenses of the practice house met? 

6. What was the cost of furnishing the practice house? 

7. What are the annual expenses? (a) Total? (b) Per capita? 

8. What division of the work of the house is made? 

The following questions should have been added to those above, 
since answers to them have been desired as plans for this house matured. 

WTiat were your practice house expenses for the school year 1917- 
1918? (a) Rent paid (or estimated)? (b) Cost of heat? (c) Cost of 
light? (d) Cost of food? Classify other expenses. 

Sixty-one institutions answered the questionnaire. Of this number, 
thirty-two had a practice house and twenty-nine had not. Of the thirty- 
two, nineteen were state colleges and universities; four were colleges; six 
were normal schools; and three were institutes. Of the twenty-nine not 
having a practice house, eleven were state colleges and universities; twelve 
were colleges; three were normal schools; and three were institutes. 



1920] PRACTICE HOUSES A REALITY 309 



State universities and colleges. Eleven houses are owned by the insti- 
tution and eight are rented. The rooms number from five to fourteen 
with an average of eight. 

The number of girls working at once in the house is from two to 
eighteen, and averages seven. The length of time which each group 
works ranges from five days to eighteen weeks, averaging about seven 
weeks. In each institution the girls live in the practice house while 
working there and carry on other regular courses. In fourteen institu- 
tions, one instructor superintends the work and in the others, two. 
These instructors reside in the house, nine paying for board and room, 
five for board only, and four paying neither board nor room. In every 
instance but one the instructor does other teaching which usually in- 
cludes household management. No conclusion can be drawn as to the 
relative amount of time given by the instructor to the practice house or 
to other teaching. 

Work in the practice house is elective in three institutions, required of 
Smith-Hughes students in four, required of seniors in eight institutions, 
required of both juniors and seniors in three; and in one institution, 
where the number of students is small, required during all four years. 
In the institutions requiring the work of juniors or seniors, the number of 
students in this course ranges from sixteen to seventy. Credit given 
varies from no credit to six semester hours. With their practical work 
these students carry from eleven to twenty hours, averaging sixteen. 

Of the nineteen state colleges and universities, two and possibly three of 
the practice houses are self-supporting. 

The majority of those not self-supporting have rent and heat furnished 
by the institution. 

The reports on the cost of furnishing are, in the majority of cases, too 
inaccurate to be of any value. The two self-supporting practice houses 
gave, respectively, $5.90 and $4.50 per person per week for expenses; 
the former was in the northwest and the latter in the south. Only five 
other houses gave an average cost of food per person per day and this 
varied from thirty to fifty cents. Of the nineteen institutions, sLx were 
just opening a practice house. The division of work varies so greatly 
that it is impossible to summarize it satisfactorily. In general, it is as 
follows: housekeeper and hostess, cook, assistant cook, waitress, and 
general housemaid. It is so arranged that every girl has an opportunity 
to do each type of work. 



310 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

Normal schools. Of the six normal schools reporting, four own the 
house. The average number of rooms is nine. The number of girls 
working at once in the house ranges from five to twelve, averaging seven. 
The length of time during which each works ranges from two to twelve 
weeks, averaging eight weeks. The girls live in the practice house 
while working there and carry on other regular courses. In each case, 
one instructor lives in the house and superintends the work. Four in- 
structors pay board and room, one pays board only, and one pays 
nothing. All but one carry other teaching work. 

In every case the work is required of home economics seniors. The 
number of seniors ranges from ten to two hundred and fifty and averages 
twenty, except in the one large institution. The credit given ranges 
from no credit to four units. Full work is carried in each place, with 
the practical work. Two schools are self-supporting. 

The cost of furnishing, and the running expenses given are too indefi- 
nite to be of value. The division of work is the same as in state colleges 
and universities. 

Colleges and Institutes. The data received from these \aries so 
greatly that a summary' is impossible. 

UNIVERSITY OF MAINE 

The practice house at the University of Maine was opened on Sep- 
tember 8, 1919. 

The house, which is known as North Hall, is on the university campus, 
and is about one mile and a half from the village of Orono. It is a tj'pi- 
cal, old, rambling Maine house, which faces west and overlooks the Still- 
water River. It was built almost one hundred years ago and was the 
farm house on one of the two farms which the towns of Orono and Old 
Town bought and gave to the State in 1866 for the Campus of the Uni- 
versity of Maine. Since that time, the house has been used as a pro- 
fessor's residence, a fraternity house, and, for one year, as a temporary 
girls' dormitory. Few changes have been made in the house, although 
it has been moved from its original site. 

On the first floor there are double living rooms with seven large re- 
cessed windows through which the sun streams all day long. In the 
rear of the large front hall, which is thirty feet long, are the housekeeper's 
desk and files, and the family telephone. Back of these, running across 
the house, is a huge dining room with a fireplace at one end and French 



1920] PRACTICE HOUSES A REALITY 311 

doors opening on a piazza. Then there are the serving room, back 
hall and stairs, and kitchen. Opening off the kitchen are the supply- 
pantry, with built-in ice box, and laundry. Back of these are a tool room, 
trunk room, and shed. There are nine bedrooms and a bath room on 
the second floor and in the attic there is one large room. 

The front living room is furnished with wicker chairs upholstered in 
tapestry, a small walnut table, and a piano, which the three upper classes 
of the Home Economics Department are buying for the house. The 
back living room and dining room are furnished in fumed oak. The 
color scheme in the living rooms is brown and blue, which is carried out 
in the rugs, tapestries, and portieres. The entire house has hard wood 
floors, white painted woodwork, and simple white curtains at the win- 
dows. The dining room, kitchen, laundry, and cleaning closet are fur- 
nished with all labor-saving devices which are practical for the average 
family, such as oil stove, fireless cooker, vacuum cleaner, electric iron. 
Special care has been taken in planning the kitchen so that the work 
may be done quickly and easily. 

In every bedroom there is a desk, and for each person a bed, chiffonier, 
straight chair and rocking chair. Each member of the family must pro- 
vide her own rugs, curtains, bedding, and towels, as is done in the dormi- 
tories. The furnishings of the house, which are practically completed, 
cost $2691.45. 

The four home economics instructors live in the house with the seven 
senior girls. These people, with one woman who supplements the work 
done by the girls, constitute the family. The house is rented by this 
family from the University. The house is self-supporting, paying rent, 
heat, light, water, telephone, laundry, help, food, and incidentals. 

Four girls are doing the work for this semester and three will do it 
the second half of the year. All the girls live in the house during the 
whole year. This course in household administration is required of all 
seniors in home economics and three credit hours are given for the work. 
The other credit hours carried vary from fourteen to sixteen. One in- 
structor superintends the work, giving about one-third of her teaching 
time to it. 

The family runs on a cooperative basis, each member paying the same 
board and room rent that is charged in the university dormitories. At 
the close of the college year an itemized cost of furnishings and running 
expenses will be made. 



312 THE JOUKNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

Every girl holds each of the following positions for about one month: 
the housekeeper, who plans the meals, docs all the buying, pays the bills 
and keeps the accounts; the cook, who is responsible for all the meals 
from Monday morning through Saturday noon; the assistant cook, who 
helps the cook prepare the meals and wash the dinner dishes; the general 
maid, who sets the table, waits on table as a member of the family, and 
does cleaning. The woman who supplements the work of the girls, 
washes the breakfast and luncheon dishes, is responsible for preparing 
the meals from Saturday noon to Sunday night, and does the remainder 
of the cleaning. Each student keeps her own room in order. 

The house has no rules and regulations other than those which are 
under student government. 'I'he life of the house is that of a large fam- 
ily with all its freedom and varied interests. Current magazines, music, 
growing flowers, and a daily paper add much to the home life. Each 
member of the family is free to invite guests whenever she chooses, and 
birthdays and holidays are made occasions of family parties. The 
Home Economics Club holds its monthly meetings here. 



A HOSPITAL HEALTH CLINIC 

GWENDOLYN STANTON HUBBARD 
Visiting Dietitian, The Children's Hospitul, Philadelphia 

Nutrition clinic work is still in the pioneer stage, although fortunately 
it has not had to struggle against so much opposition as many new pro- 
jects, for each year the world grows more human and devotes more time 
and money to the development and education of youth. Until a few 
years ago doctors centered their efforts upon the removal of physical 
and mental defects by means of surgen,', but now they realize more and 
more the effect of diet and hygiene in youth's development. 

The undernourished child is found in appalling numbers now that 
attention has been focused on this subject. Ignorance is more to blame 
than poverty in most cases, and the interest of the mothers, and of the 
school authorities must be gained as well as that of the medical pro- 
fession. If the cooperation of these three is obtained, slowly but stead- 
ily the malnourishment of children will be lessened, and those little ones 
who are entering the world will have a fair start in life. 



1920] A HOSPITAL HEALTH CLINIC 313 

The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia has established a health clinic 
that has a wider scope and a larger field than is covered by most nutri- 
tion clinics. It is not only interested in bringing the undernourished 
child up to par, but it feels the responsibility of keeping well the chil- 
dren living in its neighborhood. 

The preventive work of training cliildren in proper living and eating 
has progressed steadily until now after four years the clinic has enrolled 
three hundred children between the ages of four weeks and twelve years. 
Many of them, after having been cured in the wards and dispensary, 
have been referred to the health clinic in order that they may keep 
strong. Frequently mothers bring in their children and remark that 
they have heard of the "Healthy CUnic" and they want to know what 
and how to feed their babies to keep them well. 

No discrimination is made regarding color, nationality, creed, or fi- 
nancial standing, although most of the children belong to the poorer 
sections of the city. The clinic might almost be called a school of Amer- 
icanization, for little dark-eyed Angelina Poccini is encouraged to want 
oatmeal, lima beans, spinach, and potatoes, like her American sisters, in- 
stead of a daily diet of macaroni a I'ltalienne, and some desire for clean- 
liness and thrift is instilled into our many negro boys and girls. Each 
child on admittance to the class is given a thorough physical examination 
to determine any defects, and his weight chart per age, per height, is 
made out. Enlarged tonsils, adenoids, and carious teeth seem to be 
the most numerous defects. The first effort is to correct these, for they 
are heavy burdens preventing the child from mounting the hill of health. 
The dietitian talks to the child and his mother in the hope of finding 
some rule of health which is already being carried out. Upon this foun- 
dation she builds the rules of health and enlarges the structure as the 
child's interest increases. One little Italian chap was dirty from head 
to foot; he drank coSee, and played around the streets until late hours, 
but his teeth were in excellent condition, large and white, the kind that 
might have pleased any dentist. WTien the dietitian talked to him of 
how much whiter and prettier they would look if matched by a clean, 
rosy face, she "got it across," and his present condition is remarkable. 

If the mother, herself, does not bring the child into the clinic, the 
dietitian visits the home, provided it is in the ward in which the hos- 
pital is located; if not, she writes instructions to the mother and asks 
her to bring the children to the next clinic. Home instruction supple- 
ments that given in the hospital when possible, and is of inestimable 



314 TH>; JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOmCS [July 

value, for the children do not very often introduce the subject of health 
rules at home, unless they feel that their mothers will be truly interested 
and will pull with them. 

The children whose weight charts show signs of progress each visit 
come once a month. When the red line of actual weight runs down 
hill away from the blue line of normal weight, the child comes more 
frequently. A detailed study is made of his condition from week to 
week and his interest in his progress is enhanced by a small book in 
which he records everything he eats for a week, or again, when his 
efforts seem deserving, he receives a gold star on the Honor Roll. 

An average of twenty-five attend the Monday clinic, which is devoted 
to children from a few weeks to six years old. About two o'clock they be- 
gin coming and the nurse is kept busy weighing the babies, taking their 
height, and recording their progress on the medical charts. The die- 
titian then brings the weight charts up to date; she shows them to the 
mothers and talks with each one individually — to Mrs. Brown, to find 
the cause of Jimmy's loss of one pound in two weeks, perhaps due to a 
ten o'clock bed rule, in spite of the fact that 7:30 had been set as the 
latest hour; to Mrs. D'Amato, whose Mary had progressed rapidly and 
gained two pounds in a month since her tonsils were removed. At 2:45 
everyone moves up to the health clinic room where the dietitian demon- 
strates some simple principle of cooker}'. The mothers and children 
taste the Home Defense pudding, oatmeal, milk vegetable soup, or what- 
ever is prepared that day; they discuss the price, and take the recipe 
home for future use. Each week the dietitian emphasizes a special 
subject. On the day cream spinach soup was prepared, she stressed 
the importance of vegetables in the diet, the function they fill, the dif- 
ferent ways of preparing them and the relative cost. The doctor exam- 
ines each child and, assisted by the information he receives from the 
dietititan as each case is brought up, he gives indi\adual directions for 
each one. This is recorded on the medical chart. Pamphlets on the 
lesson of the day are often given to the mothers to read while they are 
waiting to see the doctor, or they examine the food and health posters 
which are hung about the room. 

Wednesday is by far the busier day. The children from six to twelve 
years old come earlier, some by 1 :3(), impatient to see their weight 
charts; for they want to grow healthy and strong. The dietitian talks 
individually with each one as she did with the mothers. She questions 
them about their meals, bed hour, baths, tooth-brushing, and all the 



1920] A HOSPITAL HEALTH CLINIC 315 

little things which, when performed, tend to make healthy boys and 
girls, and, when neglected, to make sickly ones. At 2:45 there is a 
rush of about thirty children up to the "health room." Each child is 
eager to see his weight chart hung on the health line and to count the 
number of stars he has on the Honor Roll. On one end of the line are 
many charts, on the other few. The many represent the gainers in 
weight, the few the losers. Frequently one of the children comes up 

and almost wistfully asks, "Do you think I'll get a star, Mrs. ? 

I drank my milk and had oatmeal every morning and I've gained eight 
ounces in one week." 

School holds our attention for the next half hour. If anyone is for- 
tunate enough to have four stars on the Honor Roll, a prize is given and 
the child comes up in front of the class to tell everyone all the things 
he has done to gain those stars. One day we may play "The Race to 
Health." On the blackboard is drawn a series of steps moimting to 
the goal called health. Each child tells one way to climb and the die- 
titian writes in each step a suggestion. Early to bed, windows open top 
and bottom, drinking milk and cocoa, oatmeal everj' day^these sugges- 
tions with many others fill the many steps. One favorite amusement 
of the children is to learn health poems. Wouldn't you want to brush 
your teeth twice a day, if you could learn the poem called "Johnny 
Brushing-Game? " This is one they learn, afterward raising their 
hands to show how many of the children are actually keeping the rule. 

Johnny Brushing-Game 
If you do not brush your teeth, If you do not brush your teetli, 

Every pleasant day, Every rainy mom, 

When you come to be grown-up Some day folks will look at you 

All the folks will say: With an awful scorn. 

" Bad, black teeth, Bad, black teeth, 

O, what a shame! O, what a shame! 

I don't want to know your name!" Folks won't want to know your oamel 

If you always brush your teeth, 

Whate'er the weather be, 
Everyone will smile, and say, 
" Who is this I see 

With nice, white teeth? 

I know your name. 

You are Johnny Britshing-Gamel" 

Before the children go the doctor examines and prescribes for each one, 
and the case is recorded on the medical chart. 



316 THK JOL'KNAL OF IKJMK KCOXOMICS [JuIy 

WTiile the health clinic is one very important phase of the work, it 
must go hand in hand with the follow-up work in the home. One can 
make a general classification of the mothers — the cooperative, who really 
work to get results and who welcome any suggestions; those who in- 
dilTcrently shrug their shoulders and say they do not care, the children 
can come to the clinic if they want to, they can stay up late or go to 
bed early, it is entirely up to the child; and those who admit, frequently 
with a certain degree of pride, that their children are the bosses. They 
seem to have no control. Their children do just as they please and in 
every case they show the result of their lack of training. Each mother 
has to be handled dilTerently and with an endless amount of tact. 

In some homes the visit is a friendly call and the dietitian is welcomed 
as a neighbor from across the way. The mother discusses with her the 
proper diet for the family and ways of preparing cheap, nourishing, and 
attractive dishes. When there is no coal stove, the visitor may show the 
mother how to make a fireless cooker, or if there is a two burner gas stove, 
she may help in the construction of a seventy-five cent gas oven. If 
the mother does not know how to cook the food advised, a cooking les- 
son takes place in the home or perhaps the noon-day meal is prepared. 
When malnutrition is evidently due chiefly to ignorance, and the mother 
does not know about cheap cuts of meat, meat substitutes, and how to 
make out her weekly food budget, the two talk over the taste of the 
family and the money they may spend and, never forgetting these two 
points, plan simple, nourishing meals. 

Then come the families where there is a distinct social problem. When 
the dietitian has gained the confidence of both parents, she tries to help 
them and to guide them wisely. Home happiness, hygienic living, and 
proper and sufficient food are so closely interwoven that health depends 
on each factor to make it supreme. 

Every institution has plans for the future; each clinic has its dreams 
of how it will extend upward and outward. Some day we hope to have 
a diet kitchen where cooking classes for the mothers and children may 
be held. Some day we want a small model house where the children 
can learn through actual experience the ways of healthy living and eat- 
ing. Yet our plans are not alone for the development of the work in 
our hospital; we want every hospital to establish health clinics and we 
want the work introduced into ever>- school so that diet and hygienic 
living may fill as important a place in the curriculum as the three R's. 



1920] THE "sctence" of consumption 317 

THE "SCIENCE" OF CONSUMPTION 

FAITH M. MCAULEY 
The University of Chicago 

For years careful study has been given to the problems of production. 
The Department of Agriculture through its various bureaus and through 
the state experiment stations has made scientific agriculture and allied 
fields a special problem. AU the primary industries have been fostered 
and have developed with unparalleled rapidity in the last fifty years. 

Not only production but distribution as well has been made the sub- 
ject of study. The distribution of our food products is as highly special- 
ized as is their production. The separation of producer and consumer 
is an economic separation as well as a geographic one. A complex mar- 
ket organization has been developed requiring the services of specialists. 
The complexity of the distributive machinery' required is e\'ident from 
an inspection of a partial list of food products noted on the Chicago 
market in February: winter caught trout from the Canadian lakes, 
strawberries from Florida, tomatoes from Mexico, celery from Califor- 
nia, pineapples from Cuba, bananas from Venezuela, Black Hamburg 
grapes from Belgium, Valencia onions from Spain, nectarines from South 
Africa. Only a small per cent of Chicago's 3,000,000 eat South African 
nectarines for breakfast, to be sure, but the market machinery making 
it possible to do so is in operation. The work is truly at our door. 
Courses in salesmanship, and courses in the psychology of advertising offer 
training in the art of creating demand, the stock to supply which is 
awaiting a "consumer." 

And what of the consumer? He has been in the main a vital but pas- 
sive factor in economic activity; his principal function, in terms of "the 
trade" has been "to be sold." Certain measures intended to safeguard 
his exploitation have been enacted, as, for example, the Federal Meat 
Inspection Act of 1891, and the Food and Drug Act of 1906. The work 
of the Bureau of Standards and more recently that of the Bureau of 
Markets has done much to protect the consumer's interests. To be 
sure, the average consumer knows little or nothing of these efforts or 
their bearing on his food problem. Daniel Webster might well have 
been speaking of the food problem and the consumer when he said, "From 
the inattention of the people to the concerns of the government, from 
their carelessness and negligence, I confess I do apprehend some dan- 



318 THE JOITRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS tjuly 

ger Make them intelligent and they will be Nngilant, 

give them the means of detecting the wrong and they will apply the 
remedy." 

Ignorance has long been known to be costly. The consumer, who stands 
convicted of glaring ignorance in matters of vital importance to himself, 
would seem to find his only safeguard in larger intelligence. The educa- 
tional system, regarded as the cause of most social ills, is nevertheless 
looked to for the correction of these same ills. The education of women 
as a specific problem has not as yet been squarely faced. The present 
educational trend seems to promise much for the future. Courses in- 
tended to furnish the scientific information necessary as a background 
for the indi\ddual in making his social adjustments are being offered in 
the colleges and universities. A revaluation is being made, and it seems 
certain that much of the earlier educational material will be discarded 
to be replaced by new, the relation of which to vital needs is clear. 
"In that day" the bearing of the Food and Drug Act, for example, on 
commercial products purchased daily by every consumer may be classed 

as educational material of a rank equal to . Let the reader 

fill in the blank to his own satisfaction; comparisons are odious. 



INTENTION STREET 

Intention Street is a broad highway. 
And those who follow it, so they say, 
Go down and up and up and down, 
Trjdng to get to Nowhere Town. 

Nowhere Town is a station fair 
On a railway that's always in the air; 
None of its trains is scheduled " through;" 
Stop-over tickets will always do. 

Attention Street is narrow, quite. 
And its dwellers work with all their might; 
They feed the sick, the poor they pity, 
And finally they get to Somewhere City. 

—Winifred Stuarl Gibbs, in Life, Sept. 18, 1919. 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

A MINIMUM FOOD ALLOWANCE AND A BASIC FOOD ORDER 

LUCY H. GILLETT 
Director, Dietetic Bureau, League for Preventive Work, Boston 

One market order or one food allowance to suit all conditions is ob- 
viously impossible. It is quite possible, however, to have at hand the 
minimum below which it is not safe to go but which may be safely added 
to as money will permit or as taste demands. The minimum allowance 
should be what a family cannot afford to go without. At the same time 
it must be workable from the standpoint of the preparation of meals 
and some concession must also be made to the taste of the family. 

In estimating a minimum but adequate food allowance or in planning 
a market order the question of health is fundamental. The needs of the 
body, so far as known, must be met by the suggestions given, but in 
making suggestions for families of different sizes it is too laborious a 
task to figure out the needs of the body in terms of proteins, mineral 
elements, and energy. The suggestion that it is possible to have 
well balanced meals by planning in terms of types of foods rather than 
in terms of food values is invaluable when planning for a large number 
of families. The calculation of the amount of the different types of 
foods necessary for health (based on the most reliable information avail- 
able) is perhaps the simplest method of arriving at a minimum food or- 
der. The minimum food allowance may be calculated from the minimum 
food order in which the most economical foods are used. 

Take, for example, the well-known statistical family of five, consisting 
of two adults (man and woman) and three children under 14 years of 
age. Not knowing what they can afford, the most we can do in sug- 
gesting a minimum food allowance for them is to state (in so far as we 
know it) the least they should have of milk, vegetables, fruit, grain prod- 
ucts, and fats. This minimum may be added to by the average woman 
with much less harm than the allowance slightly above the minimum 
may be reduced. 

319 



320 THE JOITRN'AI, OK HOME F.CON'OMICS [July 

Milk. Following the general rule of a quart of milk a day for all 
children under three and a pint of milk for children from 3 to 6 or 7, 
with a third of a quart for each of the other members of the family, 
the least amount of milk this family should have is two quarts a day. 
One child under three will increase the amount to at least two and a 
half quarts a day. This amount may be safely and wisely increased 
to three or four or five quarts as needed. 

Vegetables. The more recent knowledge with regard to vitamines 
leads us to suggest, for the sake of safety, two vegetables in the diet 
each day, one of which will ordinarily be potatoes. Because of no def- 
inite knowledge of the amount of vitamines necessary it seems desirable 
to have some green or leafy vegetable at least two or three times a week 
with a root vegetable on the remaining four or five days. Allowing from 
1^ to 2 pounds of potatoes a day and from 1 to l-J pounds of other 
vegetables, this family of five will then require from 10 to 15 pounds 
of potatoes, from 5 to 7 pounds of root vegetables, and from 2 to 4 
pounds of green vegetables per week. 

Fruit. While fruit was formerly thought to be a luxury the function 
of which was to stimulate a sluggish appetite, we now know that it is 
considered an essential part of even an economical diet. Fresh fruit 
for the younger children four or five times a week is considered advisable 
but when the strictest economy is necessary- fresh fruit for the whole 
family is possible only when fruit is cheap. When fresh fruit is over 
4 or 5 cents a pound dried fruit may be substituted for the adults. In 
such cases the amount of milk and vegetables should be increased. 

Meat products. The Interallied Scientific Commission, formed dur- 
ing the war, stated that it is impossible to give a minimum amount of 
meat necessary because meat is not a physiological necessity. With 
economy as the watchword neither can meat occupy a very prominent 
part in the diet. Nevertheless, it seems ad\'isable from the psycho- 
logical standpoint even in a minimum food order to satisfy the appetite 
of the adults by including some meat. This amount should be reduced 
to the least amount that seems workable. It has been found by expe- 
rience that seven substantial and satisfying dinners may be prepared 
from 5 to 7 pounds of meat and fish, supplemented with one-half pound 
of cheese and one and one-half pounds of dry beans or peas. These 
foods not only proWde the foundation for seven dinners but with even 
two quarts of milk a day they also provdde an adequate amount of pro- 
tein. Young children may need eggs, in which case they should be 



1920] A MINIMUM FOOD ALIX>WANCE 321 

added to or substituted for a part of the above. The suppers will 
necessarily consist of combinations of milk, vegetables, bread, cereals, 
and fruits. 

Fat. Fat should be planned, not so much from the older point of 
view in which the amount of fat necessary was determined by conven- 
ience in cooking, but rather from the standpoint of the health of the 
family. The minimum amount specified by scientists as necessary for 
adults is two and one-half to three and one-half ounces a day. This fam- 
ily of five which is equivalent to 3.3 adults will therefore require at least 
three and one-half pounds of fat a week. As the children may need more 
than the adults in proportion to size it seems safer to allow four pounds 
as a minimum. Two quarts of milk a day for a week will provide one 
pound of fat, leaving three pounds of fat to be purchased as such. Any 
amount of fat obtained from meat and other foods will provide a margin 
of safety. 

Grain products. Grain products are generally recognized as the cheap- 
est source of energy and occupy a prominent place in an economical 
diet. In addition to the foods already mentioned grain products and 
sugar must be provided in sufficient amounts to bring the energy up to 
the requirement of the family. As sugar should not be relied upon to 
any great extent, especially in a minimum diet, the bulk of the energy 
will have to be provided by grain products. About 25 pounds of bread 
and cereals (including rice and macaroni) have been found to meet the 
weekly requirement. If the bread is made at home, this amount may 
be reduced to about 20 pounds. It has been found possible to use in 
various ways from 10 to 12 pounds of cereals in the diet of a family 
of five. The remainder then may be used in the form of bread, or 
more bread and less cereal may be used if desired. 

Sugar. Sugar like meat is not necessary from the standpoint of 
physiolog}'. As with the meat, however, it seems advisable to satisfy 
the usual conception of a good diet by adding the minimum amount that 
seems to serve the purpose of sweetening foods. Experience has shown 
that the sugar may be reduced, reduced because it usually occupies too 
prominent a place in the cheaper diet, to two or three pounds a week 
for the family. One pint of molasses makes a valuable addition, not 
only because of the energy but because of the mineral elements which 
are thereby introduced. 

Worked out on the above suggestions a minimum order for a week for 
a family of five (2 adults and 3 children) may be given as follows: 



322 TliE JomXAL OF HOM£ ECONOMICS [July 

Milk 14 quart* 

Cheese or peanut butter 1 pound 

Meat or fish, fresh 5-6 pounds 

I'ish, dried or salt or smoked i pound 

Keans or peas, dried 1 ) pounds 

Kggs 1 dozen 

Potatoes 1 peck 

Onions, carrots, beets, turnips, parsnips, cabbage, string beans, spinach, 

etc 7-9 pounds 

Prunes, raisins, or other dried fruits 2 pounds 

Fresh fruit 3-5 pounds 

Bread, or more bread and less cereal 14 pounds 

or 

Flour 10 pounds 

Commcal, rice, hominy, samp, barley, macaroni, oatmeal, or extra 

flour 10-12 pounds 

Sugar 2 pounds 

Molasses 1 pint 

Fat, butter, butter substitute, lard, oil 3 pounds 

Cocoa, tea, and coffee 1 pound 

The above food order provides 3400 Calories per man per day with 
100 grams of protein, 1 gram of calcium, 2 grams of phosphorus and 16 
milligrams of iron to every 3400 Calories. These figures compare favor- 
ably with the standard allowances suggested by Sherman which are 75 
grams of protein, 0.67 gram of calcium, 1.4 grams of phosphorus, and 
15 milligrams of iron. 

As has been stated, the above diet is considered a minimum. There 
is no reason why the food value should be increased but an increase in 
cost will make it much more attractive by allowing a wider range of 
foods. It is very simple and easy to varj' the food to suit a more lib- 
eral allowance, without materially altering the food value. As economy 
becomes less of a factor, the grain products will doubtless be reduced 
to offset the energy supplied in other forms such as cream, bacon, or 
more butter. Butter may well replace all butter substitutes. The 
more expensive vegetables may replace the cheaper ones while more 
fruit and green vegetables are desirable, both from the standpoint of 
nutrition and from the standpoint of flavor. The more expensive cuts 
of meat while adding no more food value will increase the cost rapidly. 

The following table, which summarizes needs in terms of foods, may 
be used as the basis for making food orders for families of different 
sizes. 



1920] 



A MINIMUM FOOD ALLOWANCE 



323 



Family food needs 



KIND OF rooD 



\egetables, pota- 
toes 



Root vegetables . 



Leafy vegetables. 



Fruit . 



Grain products. 



FaU. 



Sugar. 



Meat (no meat , 
needed) 



QDAJJTrrV PER ACE PER DAY 



Under 2 yrs., 1 qt. 
From 2-6 yrs., I qt. 

For each three people over 6 yrs. of age, 
Iqt. 

Under 2 yrs., 1 to 2 oz. 
From 2 to 6 yrs., 4 to 6 oz. 
From 6 to 10 yrs., 6 to 12 oz. 
Over 10 yrs., 6 to 12 oz. 

Under 2 yrs., less than 1 oz. 
From 2 to 6 yrs., 1 to 2 oz. 
From 6 to 10 3TS., 2 to 4 oz. 
Over 10 yrs., 4 to 8 oz. 



Under 2 yrs., § oz. 
From 2 to 6 yrs., 1 to 2 oz. 
From 6 to 10 yrs., 2 to 3 oz. 
From 10 up, 2 to 4 oz. 

Under 5 yrs., fresh fruit at least 4 or 5 
times a week 

For older people, amount depending on 
economy and amount of milk and vege- 
tables used 

Under 2 yrs., 1 to 3 oz. 
From 2 to 6 yrs., 2 to 5 oz. 
From 6 to 10 yrs., 6 to 10 oz. 
Over 10 yrs., 8 to 16 oz. 

Under 2 yrs., 0.5 oz. 
From 2 to 6 yrs., 0.5 to 1 oz. 
From 6 to 10 yrs., 1 to 2 oz. 
Over 10 yrs., 2 to 3 oz. or more 

Under 2 yrs., not over J oz. 
From 2 to 6 yrs., not over 1 oz. 
Over 6 yrs., not over 2 oz. 

Under 6 yrs., no meat should be given 
From 6 to 10 yrs., not over 1 to 2 oz. 
From 10 to 14 yrs., not over 2 to 3 oz. 
Over 14 yrs., not over 2 to 6 oz. 



ESTIMATES lOS A FAIOLY OF FIVE 



2 to 5 qts. a day 



Ij to 2 lbs. a day 
10 to 15 lbs. a week 



1 to IJ lbs. 

5 to 7 lbs. a week 

(4 or 5 days a week) 



J to I lbs. a day 
2 to 3 lbs. a week 
(2 or 3 days a week) 



As much as can be af- 
forded 



3 to 4 lbs. a day 
20 to 25 lbs. a week 
(10 to 14 lbs. bread) 



\ lb. a day 
3} lbs. a week 



2 to 3 lbs. a week 



12 to 16 oz. a day 
5 to 7 lbs. a week 



324 THE JOXniNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

In Boston, on April first, 1920, the cost of the market order as given 
was $11.50. Then the lowest allowance on which this family could 
safely be fed was $11.50, at the rate of 50 cents per man per day or 14.7 
cents per KXK) Calorics. This basic allowance presupposes that every 
cent will be spent to the very best advantage. As we can hardly expect 
the ver}' wisest expenditure of money in every case it seems best to safe- 
guard the health of the children by allowing a margin of safety and rais- 
ing the allowance to $14.00, or 60.6 cents per man per day. 

As a larger proportion of the food value of the diet of the young chil- 
dren is from more expensive foods than that of adults, it is hardly fair 
to base the allowances for children on the diet of adults. Indix-idual 
allowances for them may be obtained by arranging separately the diet 
for children of various ages up to seven years, in such a way as to pro- 
vide adec}uate food value, and then calculating the cost of the food. 
While the food for an adult may be purchased at a cost of 14.7 cents 
per 1000 Calories, the food for a child two years of age costs from 20 
to 24 cents per 1000 Calories and for a child six years old, from 18 to 
20 cents per 1000 Calories. 

A scale of food cost allowances for the members of a family of various 
ages may be stated (for Boston) as follows, considering "A" the basic 
allowance, "B" with a margin of safety: 

A B 

Children under 2 yrs. of age $1.80 to $2.00 

Children from 2 to 6 yrs 1.90 to 2.25 

Children from 6 to 10 yrs 2.00 to 2.50 

Children from 10 to 14 yrs 2.30 to 3.00 

Men — Heavy muscular work 4.00 to 4.50 

Men — Moderate muscular work 3.50 to 4.25 

Men— Light muscular work 3.00 to 3.50 

Women — Heavy muscular work 3.20 to 4.00 

Women — Moderate muscular work 3.00 to 3 75 

Women — Light muscular work 2.50 to 3.00 

Qualifications. For a nursing mother, increase the amount given by one half. For a 
family of three or less allow Sl.OO per week extra. A small family cannot live as econom- 
ically as a large one. In case of sickness, an extra amount may be needed to allow for extra 
nourishment. 



1920] CLOTHING INFORMATION BUREAU 325 

A CLOTHING INFORMATION BUREAU 

The desire on the part of homemakers to select textiles and clothing 
with discriminaton became evident during the war. The difficulties of 
the textile situation and the rising cost of living made the consumer 
realize the need of more knowledge, not only for home economy, but for 
the sake of the textile and clothing industries of the country. 

To meet the situation, a center from which clothing facts could be 
disseminated was establishd by the Woman's City Club in Boston, as a 
part of its war service. The work was organized by Mrs. Mary Schenck 
Woolman, Textile Specialist for Massachusetts under the War Emer- 
gency Fund of the United States Department of Agriculture. The 
city of Boston gave it a home in a war hut on Boston Common, in the 
most frequented part of the city, and it was visited daily by consumers 
of all classes. 

When the war was over and the huts were removed from the Common 
it was felt that the Clothing Information Bureau should not be aban- 
doned, but should become a permanent part of city community work. 
The Woman's City Club, therefore, is continuing the work at 9 Hamilton 
Place. Miss Ada F. Blanchard, formerly of the Los Angeles Normal 
School, is still in charge. 

The aim of the Bureau is threefold: (1) To increase intelligence in the 
selection of textiles, clothing, and garment accessories; in the making 
of new clothing and the renovating and remaking of old; in the manu- 
facture of textiles and clothing, both ready-to-wear and homemade and 
in the responsibilities and costs of the retail trade. (2) To show that 
health can be conserved or injured by the manner of dressing, and to 
increase efficiency through the correct covering of the body. (3) To 
teach clothing economy and the use of the budget that thrift may be 
increased in the homes, thus cooperating with government campaigns 
organized for this purpose. 

These aims are carried out by providing technical help in making and 
renovating clothing; the use of commercial patterns; labor saving methods 
of making garments; cutting and fitting garments; the care and launder- 
ing of clothing; dyeing and tinting of garments; how to test fabrics. 

Health instruction is given on the reasons high heels and ver>' nar- 
rowed toed shoes are injurious; where to buy correctly shaped shoes and 
satisfactory knitted underwear; what textiles to wear next to the skin; 
corsets and the healthy body. 



326 TIIE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS (July 

Economical advice deals with how to make a clothing budget; the 
recognition of reliable materials; a minimum adequate wardrobe; esti- 
mated clothing expenses; keeping household accounts; where to buy to 
advantage; satisfactory material for service clothing; standard cloths. 

Information is given as to classes, clubs, schools, magazines, reports, 
and factories to visit; on how to obtain exhibits, moving pictures of 
textiles, posters, photographs, and outlines for lectures and conferences, 
as well as teachers and speakers. 

Students from the colleges, the Prince School of Education for Store 
Service, and other institutions, and children from the elementary and 
the high schools study at the Bureau. Exhibits, often loaned, have 
been held about three times a month on such subjects as garden cloth- 
ing, service dresses, common sense varieties of shoes, varieties of stock- 
ings, testing material for fastness, examples of dyes with their effect on 
different fibers, domestic and foreign wools, wool substitutes, serviceable 
clothing for children, children's clothing made from worn garments. 

Demonstrations and conferences are given twice a week on the various 
subjects on which advice has been asked at the Bureau. 

An effort is being made to more completely serve the community than 
ever before, and traveling exhibits are being developed. Bureau work- 
ers are sent to local groups, and groups of representative women from 
the leading ci\ic and welfare departments are working in cooperation 
with Miss Blanchard to increase the service to the association and to 
the city. Mrs. Woolman acts as textile specialist. Demonstrations are 
so well attended that there is not always room enough for the \-isitors. 
The daily press is keeping in touch with the Bureau. The work is 
spreading beyond Massachusetts, and so many demands for information 
are coming from over the entire country that a pamphlet will soon be 
issued which will tell specifically of the organization and methods of 
work. The Woman's City Club and those in charge of the Bureau are 
glad at any time to give help to those desiring to organize a like work. 
Such a center need not be expensive, and yet can render a valuable 
service. 



1920] KITCHENS 327 

KITCHENS 

In our endeavor to work out the most efficient methods of work and 
to plan for the most modern equipment we often forget both the need 
for adapting the equipment to individual needs and the fact that there 
are different home ideals and conditions, that may make what seems 
to us an old-fashioned method sometimes most desirable. The kitchen 
of the Pullman car is often described as ideal, and so it is from the stand- 
point of compactness, the most necessary condition to observe in the 
moving train, but anyone who has been in such a kitchen and experienced 
its intense heat will hesitate to recommend it for the household. The 
kitchen well planned for the city apartment may not be at all adapted 
to the farm house, though in both places the same principles should be 
observed of correct routing, convenient arrangement of detail, and ease 
in doing work. 

There are still many homes where the kitchen bears somewhat the 
same relation to the household as did the kitchen of colonial times, when 
this was the real heart of the house, the true living room. This tjpe of 
kitchen is the one described by the writer of the following article, pub- 
lished some time ago in the American Cooking School Magazine (now 
American Cookery). 

An article in a recent household magazine gives an enthusiastic description 
of a compact kitchenette, so tiny that it is modeled after a ship's kitchen 
and takes up almost as little room. The writer tells with what difficulty she 
stowed herself away, in order to visit with the owTier while luncheon was 
being prepared. At first I felt a pang of envy, contrasting the order and 
neatness which prevailed there with the somewhat chaotic condition which 
met my ej-es as I looked up from the magazine I had picked up to fill in the 
moments until the high school boy should arrive in his usual starved condi- 
tion. When he came, however, I wondered how he would fit into that tiny 
kitchenette, for the high school boy is long of limb and broad of shoulder and 
still growing. 

I envied no more, for our kitchen is the heart of the house. On the kitchen 
table the high school boy builds his aeroplanes and telegraph instruments, 
and solves his algebra problems, and conjugates his Latin verbs; at the kitchen 
sink he experiments with chemistry and physics, all with mother's sympa- 
thetic interest and help. A perfect kitchen companion is the jolly, whistUng 
high school boy with his slang, his popular songs and his interest in everything 
from modern aeronautics and wireless telegraphy back to .\le.xander the 
Great and Julius Caesar. You can't lose your hold on every part of your 



328 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS |July 

boy's life if he and his chums are under your feet in the kitchen on holidays 
and stormy days. Where is there room, pray tell, for taffy pulls and popcorn 
in a kitchenette? 

On the fireless cooker in the corner (cooker made by said high school boy) 
the ten-year-old boy finds subjects and predicates, with mother's help, cons 
his spelling lessons and "bounds North America." In the chalked ring in 
the center he "knuckles down tight" and he may even spin his top here, build 
his kites and mend his sled. 

Baby boy gets his first lessons here, too, builds his blocks and nma his 
choo-choo train, "cranks his auto" with meat grinder and bread mixer, learns 
his letters from oven door and cereal carton and his numbers from dock and 
scale dial and calendar. 

Even the master of the house warms his back at the hot water boiler in the 
corner after his drives, as he answers the "Queen of the Kitchen's" inquiries 
about different patients he has visited that morning. 

There is even room for the high school boy's chum, "the yaller dog," and 
four-year-old's kitten; yes, there is even a comfortable chair for the neighbor 
who runs in "to borrow" and stays to chaL 

No, a kitchenette would never do for us. 



KEEPING SERVANTS 

The servant question, or the problem of first catching your cook be- 
fore eating your hare, seems, like many other matters of present day 
discussion, to be a perennial one. In 1 752 an attempt at a solution was 
offered by a worthy anonyTnous writer in a small pamphlet which hardly 
merits the oblivion time has bestowed upon it. The sixpenny was entitled 
"A proposal for the amendment and encouragement of servants." The 
proposal was, in brief, to raise a fund by popular subscription, for bestow- 
ing annual rewards on such servants as had lived long in a place; "viz., 
so much for one year, for two years, for three, and so on." The sub- 
scribers were to be organized into a society, but the writer does not tell 
us what happened to the subscribers who were unable to keep servants, 
even when the subscribers had always punctually paid their dues. He 
is certain, however, that he has solved the ditliculty of keeping ser\-ants, 
for he goes on to say, "This scheme (which those who will give them- 
selves the trouble to consider at large will probably not think altogether 
impracticable) I believe will be likely to conduce to a general reforma- 
tion of our servants." Unfortunately historj- is silent about the results 
of this plan and we have no means of ascertaining whether it was ever 
put into effect. — The Christian Sciettce Monitor. 



1920] FOOD AND FARE IN' C.'^NADA 329 

FOOD AND FARE IN CANADA 

From the statements in a recently published article' on Canadian 
food and food customs, the diet does not, after all, difTer very much from 
what one finds in the United States. 

If there is any diet which may be called purely Canadian, "it is that 
of the French, the original white Canadians. Thousands of the less 
sophisticated habitants in the valley of the St. Lawrence still have as 
tlicir staple food at almost every meal the traditional pea soup, flavored 
and enriched with a bit of fat pork, and supplemented with plenty of 
bread baked in the great outdoor stone-built oven. Tea is their strong- 
est drink, at home; but it is strong enough, in all conscience. Away 
from home, Jean Baptiste will rarely refuse a glass of oiiiske blanc. 
Sagamite, a Red Indian dish of maize, is still made by French Canadians, 
who also vary their diet on festive occasions with blood puddings (not 
unknown among the Scots) and with crapes and croquinoles, otherwise 
pancakes and doughnuts, which are assuredly no monopoly of any race." 
The description of Canadian farm home diet would seem ver>' familiar 
to a great many Americans. The statement about pie, which follows, 
is of interest as it seems that, in this instance as in so many others, we 
have so taken over pie and made it our own that we had forgotten whence 
it came. "The pie which nearly always forms the second course is con- 
sidered by old-world folk a peculiarly new-world institution; but, like 
many other 'Americanisms,' it is probably an earlier 'Anglicism' carried 
over the sea and flourishing there, though nearly obsolete in England. 
I remember, writes a Canadian correspondent, forty years ago, an old 
market woman in North Wales who brought a basketful of these pies to 
town ever)' market day. They were the real thing — I recognized their 
brothers and sister on every dinner table when I went to Canada years 
afterwards — big round tarts, baked on a plate, upper crust and under 
crust with a layer of something fruity in the middle." 

Apple and mince pies are the commonest in our part [of Canada], but 
lemon pie, covered with meringue instead of upper crust, is reckoned a 
greater delicacy, and pumpkin pie, also devoid of upper crust, is the 
prime favorite of a minority. A quite different minority, chiefly English 
by birth, alternate pies with pudding of the usual English types." 

' The Table ICrcit nrit.-iinl, Vol. 68 (1920), .\o. 1762, p. 181. 



EDITORIAL 

The New Belgian Home Economics College. Many readers of 
the Journal will remember M. Paul De\'uyst. He occupies a high po- 
sition as Director General, Ministry of Agriculture, Belgium, having 
charge of the section dealing with inspection, education, and extension 
work in agriculture and home economics. He has long been connected 
with agricultural and home economics work in Belgium and is in large 
measure responsible for its success. 

Owing to his efforts a college of agriculture and home economics for 
women is being established in Lierre, one of the suburbs of Brussels. 

The new institution will be housed in an old chateau not far from one 
of the residences of the King of Belgium. His Majesty and the Queen 
are both greatly interested in this project, and their interest will be mani- 
fested in very efTective ways. 

Professor Jean Lindemans, who has been appointed Director of the 
new college, is now in the United States collecting data for the Belgian 
government regarding education in home economics and agriculture in 
this country and Canada. He will visit a number of schools and colleges 
before his return to Belgium and has spent some time in Washington. It 
is Director Lindemans' hope that the Belgian college may establish 
close contact with American colleges and that some exchange of students 
may be possible. 

The American Home Economics Association and all others interested 
in home economics congratulate Belgium and wish the new college all 
success. One practical way of showing our interest would be to place 
the name of the college on our maihng Hsts so that it may receive cata- 
logues and current bulletins and also when possible to send files of bulle- 
tins and reports of home economics work. 

The American Home Economics Association has a personal interest 
in this project, as M. DeVuyst is one of its honorary members. 

Home Economics Training College in India. .V circular received 
from Baroda College, affiliated with the University of Bombay, gives 
details of a Collegiate School of Household Arts recently opened to 
330 



1920] EDITORIAL 331 

give graduate instruction in tiie fundamental principles and practices 
of private and institutional housekeeping. His Highness the Maharaja 
Gaekwar became interested in the establishment of the institution 
after a course of lectures on household arts had been delivered at Baroda 
College by Mrs. Ann Gilchrist Strong, for many years Director of the 
Department of Household Arts in the University of Cincinnati. 

Admission to candidacy for the diploma in household arts is open to 
those who hold the B.A. or B.S. degree, while students who have passed 
a college matriculation examination may enter for a certificate course in 
household arts. The curriculum includes fundamental work in chemis- 
try, economics, sociology, psychology, and ethics, and applied courses 
in housing, dietetics, textiles, household management, and household 
arts education. The faculty includes Mrs. Strong and a number of 
Indian professors, members of the Baroda College Faculty. The out- 
line of the school points out that the training of teachers for district and 
village schools must in the future include ability to teach the household 
arts. Students will be expected to concern themselves with presenting 
in the vernaculars, orally or in print, the practical teachings of this sub- 
ject. "For this," the announcement reads, "research must be made 
into social and economic conditions, in their bearing upon home Life. 
Text books and other books dealing with home problems will require to 
be written, and written by Indians for India. This is an opportunity 
for household arts students. Government Departments require such 
women, in increasing numbers, for civic and social service. Institu- 
tional management requires and will demand other students. Hos- 
pitals need dietetians able to manage the practical preparation of invalid 
diets, and to teach dietetics to nurses. Laundries need managers who 
understand the chemistry of textiles and detergents as well as the 
mechanism of modern machinery. Palaces and hotels need household 
managers who understand modern methods and can deal with the 
servant problem. 

"The student of household arts also has the opportunity of improv- 
ing the health, happiness, and social well-being of the family, and mak- 
ing the home an example of the 'Art of Right-Living.' 

"An expert always receives higher compensation than the general 
worker. It is reasonable to believe that those trained in household 
arts will receive improved financial remuneration." 



3.^2 THE JOITRNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [July 

THE OPEN FORUM 

Family Living Expenses. The two-year Commercial Graduate's 
Civics Class, of Austin High School, conducted by George C. Brush, ob- 
tained an average family budget of living expenses for a period of one 
year. This class consists of fifty-eight pupils, and each pupil turned in 
an unsigned report, showing the amount of money expended for the 
family expenses and also the savings. The results are as follows: 

Food $1119.00 

Clothing 849.00 

Shelter 592 .00 

Recreation 260 .00 

Church— charity 76.00 

Insurance 144.00 

Carfare 1 13 . 00 

Miscellaneous 242 .00 

Average total expenses $3395.00 

Average savings 572 00 

.Average income $3967 . 00 

Average number of people per family 5 

Among these fifty-eight families, forty-five had savings accounts, 
every family carried some insurance, and also donated to charity. There 
were 302 people included in this budget, and it took $194,582.00 to sup- 
port them for the past year. 

These were comfortable families of Americans, chiefly of Irish and 
Swedish descent, who had been in this country for two or three genera- 
tions. Is this typical of American expenditure? Does the very small 
amount spent for church and charity (less than 2 per cent) show the 
need for training along altruistic lines? Unless recreation includes 
travel, the amo"unt spent for this and for clothing would seem to indicate 
self indulgence that might be corrected by systematic budget instruction. 

Nancy G. Gladish, 
Austin High Sclwol. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



Mess Officers' Manual. Philadelphia: Lea & 

Febiger, 1919, pp. 192. 

This volume was prepared by several of- 
ficers of the Division of Food and Nutrition, 
of the Medical Department, U. S. Army. 
ft is designed to facilitate the work of camp 
nutrition officers. The topics considered 
are composition of food, selection and in- 
spection of food and storage of foods, diges- 
tion and absorption of foods, nutritive value 
of foods in the diet, kitchen economy, and 
mess management, and the duties of mess 
officers. There is also a glossary, a list of 
additional reference books, and a full inde.x. 
The taljular matter on food composition in- 
cluded in the discussion of food contains a 
number of foods not in the Department of 
Agriculture bulletin, on which it is based. 
The discussion of food contains a section on 
a topic not commonly considered in such 
connection, namely, flavoring substances. 

Of special interest are such matters as the 
discussion of sampling foods, the informa- 
tion nn judging the quality of meat, poultr>', 
and other important foodstuffs in the ration, 
the care of the refrigerator, dairy products, 
vegetables, dry foods such as flour, and 
canned goods. Most of the foodstuffs given 
under the first three heads require refriger- 
ation. Tlie construction of a storage bin 
and a bread box are described in detail. 
The discussions of digestion and absorption 
of foods and their uses in the diet are con- 
venient summaries of these important top- 
ics, while the discussion on kitchen economy 
and mess management provides a large 
amount of useful information regarding the 
hygiene of quarters, equipment, and per- 
sonnel. The section on battalion and com- 
pany mess ofticcrs and the hospital mess 
officer and staff is of decided interest to 
students of institution management, as are 
also the discussions of menu planning, meal 
planning, and other topics. 

C. F. Laxcworthy. 



A Manual of Canning and Preserving. By 

Theodora M. Carrell. New York: E. 

P. Dutton & Company, 1919, pp. 101. 

$1.50. 

This Manual contains suggestive intro- 
ductory material followed by well planned 
definite directions for carrying on specific 
canning processes. 

Every Step in Canning. By Grace Viall 

Gray. Chicago: Forbes & Company, 

1919, pp. 253. $1.25. 

The short introduction describing the vari- 
ous methods of canning, laying emphasis 
upon the superiority of the single-period 
cold-pack over other methods, and giving 
suggestions for necessary canning equip- 
ment, is very direct and well worked out. 

The following chapters deal with the 
canning of soft and hard fruits, vegetables, 
soups (mth and without stocks), jellies, jams, 
and preserves, meat, fish, and poultry, with 
careful directions as to the preparation of 
the food material previous to caiming. A 
chapter dealing with canning in tin, and a 
discussion of intermittent or fractional ster- 
ilization follows. There are directions for 
drying fruits and vegetables, for the salting, 
smoking, and preserving of meats, with a 
chapter on preservation of eggs and on the 
home storage of vegetables. 

The material of the last two chapters 
discussing the marketing of the canned 
product and giving a list of firms supplying 
canning equipment is suggestive, and the 
tables showing the yield of canned products 
from raw material are helpful. 

The subject matter is carefully arranged 
tliroughout. It is very convenient to have 
such a book bringing together the essential 
data for home canning. 

RiTTH Atwater, 
Prall Inslilule. 
333 



334 



TlIF, JOLTIXAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[July 



The Book of Ice Cream. Hy \V. W. FiSK. 

Xew York: The Macmillan Company, 

1919, pp. 302, figs. 88. S2.50. 

The rapid development of commercial ice 
cream making is s[X)kcn of at some length 
in an historical account of frozen foods of 
this type. The book brings together much 
information. Such questions as milk and 
cream and the manufactured milk products 
as related to ice cream; sugar; chocolate 
products; fruits; stabilizers and fillers; flav- 
oring e.xtracts; classification of ice cream and 
other frozen desserts; equipment; refriger- 
ation as applied to ice cream making; ice 
cream processes, testing, and related topics, 
are taken up in this volume. .Although the 
subject is treated chiefly from the manu- 
facturer's standpoint, it has been the author's 
purpose to include material for the house 
keeper also. 

The Family, \o\. I, Xo. 1. Published by the 
.\mcrican Association for Organizing 
Family Social Work, 130 East 22nd 
Street, Xew York. 

This new magazine appeared in its first 
issue in March, 1920, and is to appear 
monthly except in .Vugust and September. 
The "standard subscription" price (which 
does not cover cost of printing) is SI. 50 a 
year, with "full subscriptions" at S3, "con- 
tributing subscriptions" $5, and "patron's 
subscriptions" $10; all classes of subscribers 
receiving the same service. Single copies 
are S0.20. 

This magazine is a publication which home 
economics libraries will wish to have for ref- 
erence. It will consider the problems of 
social workers who deal with family read- 
justments, and will doubtless provide much 
economic and social material of value in de- 
veloping instruction in this field. 

The May number contains a description of 
a summer course for college juniors given by 
the Charity Organization Society in New 
Y'crk; a discussion of economic matters con- 
nected with the employment of social work- 
ers in an article On the Hiring Line; and a 



paper on the Xew Visiting IIousekeci>cr — 
her training and her work — by Emma 
Winslow. 

Children's Garments. By Emily and Mah- 

lA.N Wallba.nk. London: Sir Isaac Ht- 

man & Sons, Ltd., pp. 134. $2.00. 

This is a pleasingly printed English book 
describing the cutting, planning, and mak- 
ing of children's garments, with four useful 
full-sized flat patterns slipped into a pocket 
in the hack cover of the book. 

This book tills the need for simple drafts 
and directions for cutting garments for 
children, both girls and Ixjys. Though some 
English terms used difler from our .\merican 
e.xpressions, the descriptions and cuts are so 
clear that anyone accustomed to drafting 
and cutting patterns can easily understand 
the text. 

There is an excellent table of graded meas- 
urcnients in the front of the book, and all 
through the book the most explicit direc- 
tions for block pattern making and adaptions 
of patterns to various ages and sizes. With 
the drafting and making of patterns very 
clear directions are given for the construction 
of each garment. Finishes and trimmings 
are suggested, all in excellent taste, and de- 
signs are those that are not likely to vary 
with the passing styles from year to year. 

The book covers all sorts and kinds of 
children's garments from underclothes, 
nightgowns, and wrappers, to many styles 
of dresses for little girls and many types of 
blouses and "knickers" for little boys, even 
including a coat suit with waistcoat (typi- 
cally English). 

The book would be helpful to any seam- 
stress making a specialty of children's gar- 
ments, and particularly interesting and use- 
ful to an instructor who expects to teach 
the making of these garments. It should be 
added to all libraries of household arts text 
books on garment construction. 

MaRJOEIE KlNSEV, 

Prail Institule. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



The Dietitians Section of the Home 
Economics Association of Philadelphia has 

held regular monthly meetings during the 
year. 

Courses in several phases of post graduate 
work offered to student dietitians who are 
domestic science graduates were outlined at 
the February meeting by Emma Smedley, 
Director of School Luncheons, and by sev- 
eral dietitians in Philadelphia hospitals. 

The viewpoints of graduates after enter- 
ing the dietetic field were presented at the 
April meeting by dietitians from hospitals, 
cafeterias, tea rooms, school lunch rooms, 
college halls, and hotels in Philadelphia, 
New Jersey, Delaware, and New York. 

The business meeting in May was followed 
by a social afternoon for which refreshments 
were prepared by Miss Cameron, Resident 
Dietitian, Woman's Homeopathic Hospital. 

The oflicers for ne.xt year are: Mrs. Jennie 
M. Fuller, Pennsylvania Hospital, Chair- 
man; Inez Griffin, Children's Homeopathic 
Hospital, Secretary; Mcta Reese, Method- 
ist Episcopal Hospital, Treasurer. 

The Washington Home Economics As- 
sociation held a conference for all home 
economics teachers, west of the mountams, 
on April 24 at the Stadium High School in 
Tacoma. 

The program included, beside music and 
an auto ride given by the Rotary Club, a 
paper on Help the Other Departments are 
Giving Us, by Ruth Walker of Seattle; the 
Report of the Committee on Standardiza- 
tion of Textiles, by Grace Denny; and an 
account of Girls' Club Work, by Elizabeth 
Amery, University of Washington. 

Janet E. Scott of Lincoln High School was 
toastmistress at the luncheon. 



Saskatchewan Teachers' Courses. .Act- 
ing upon the request of the Department of 
Education, the Council of the University of 
Saskatchewan has recommended to the Senate 
the establishment, during the academic year 
1920-21, of a one-year course in household 
science for teachers in the provincial schools. 

The object of this course is to give, within 
the period of the ordinary academic year, 
work which will be of substantial service to 
teachers in improving their equipment in 
household science. The course will include 
both foods and textiles, as well as the related 
subjects, including chemistry. 

To be admitted to this course teachers 
must have a second class license or higher 
credentials. Preference will be given to 
teachers having three or more years' exper- 
ience in the public schools. The class will 
be limited in number and therefore it is 
suggested that early apphcation for admis- 
sion be made to the Registrar of the Univer- 
sity. It is recommended also that those 
teachers who have not had the work in chem- 
istry required for first class diploma should, 
if possible, take the course in chemistry to 
be given at the summer session of the Uni- 
versity. 

The Lewis Hotel Training School, which 
has for three years conducted correspondence 
courses to train for hotel positions, has this 
year begun resident work. The School is 
in Washington, at 1324 New York .\venuc, 
and Mrs. Henry C. Brown, the principal, will 
welcome anj' home economics visitors. The 
school trains for "every position from boiler 
room to roof garden." The complete course 
is ten months, tlie classes meeting twice a 
week, and the work being practically all in 
lectures and problems. The majority of the 
students in the resident work are women. 
335 



336 



TIU; JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[July 



The field of hotel work is gradually offcrinK 
more and more opportunities to women. 

Among the outside lecturers who have 
spoken at the School this year are Miss Hunt 
of the OlVice of Home Kconomics who spokr 
on FockI Values, ami Miss Lord of Pratt 
Institute who spoke on the Worker and the 
Job. 

Home Economics Motion Pictures. Since 
it is difTicult at present to take students 
to see work in progress in the factory itself, 
home economics courses need to have the 
factory and farm brought to the school in order 
that processes of growth, and ituuiufacture 
of textiles and foods may be seen and appre- 
ciated. The Motion Picture as a method of 
instruction can give, therefore, distinct serv- 
ice, and is being increasingly utilized in 
educational institutions. 

The Community Motion Picture Bureau, 
46 West Twenty-Fourth Street, New York 
City, which gave service to the United 
States Government during the war, has 
realized tiie importance of presenting home 
economics subjects before social, commer- 
cial, educational, and industrial institutions. 
This Bureau's service is outside of the 
theatre, in the community, or to groups 
within the communit)-; hence, it is especially 
equipped for such work. The company 
considers that home economics films, to be 
of true value, must be organized by some 
one familiar with the work, and it, there- 
fore, has asked Mrs. Mary Schenck Wool- 
man, formerly of Teachers' College, Colum- 
bia University, to direct the making of 
several courses of home economics instruc- 
tion. 

As a beginning a series of ten te.^tile sub- 
jects is being planned, such as spinning; 
weaving: knitting; cotton growing, spinning 
and manufacture; silt culture and manufac- 
ture; wool production, spinning and weaving; 
woolen and worsted finishing; fiax growth 



and manufacture into linen; bleaching, dye- 
ing and printing, and embroidery and lace. 
Twenty subjects arc planned in tlie food 
industries and in social and betterment 
work connected with the home These in- 
clude grains and cereab; poultry and eggs; 
butter and cheese; milk; meat cutting; 
cooking; laundering; furnishing and equip- 
ing the home; nutrition clinics; day nurseries, 
and like subjects. 

The assembling of films relating to guid- 
ance of women into industr>' and to the 
National Safety Movement, are also urged 
and nill be given attention in the future. 

Mrs. Woolman is working directly in 
connection with the teachers of home eco- 
nomics, and with the American Home 
Economics Association, for she is under- 
taking this work for their service. Infor- 
mation can be obtained concerning these 
films by appl)ing to her at the Commu- 
nity Motion Picture Bureau in New York, 
or at her home. Hotel Hemenway, Boston, 
Massachusetts. 

Boys and Girls Club Work. Selma 
Rongstad, .Assistant State Club Leader for 
South Dakota, writes: ''The Boys and 
Girls Club Department of South Dakota is 
making bread baking one of the most impor- 
tant projects for 1920. The bread club 
work during this year will consist of baking 
various kinds of mulTins, such as plain gra- 
ham and rolled oats; baking powder biscuits; 
gingerbread; yeast breads such as white 
bread, graham, rye, and rolled oats; and 
various kinds of yeast rolls. 

"The club members will do their baking 
at home and in club groups; during the year 
they will give public demonstrations. The 
three best bread demonstrators in the 
county are chosen to go to the State Fair, 
where they will give public demonstrations 
competing for State Honors." 



Vol. XII, No. 8 August, 1920 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in llomemaking. Institution .Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

Mrs. Alice P. Norton, Edilar Ketukao E. Baldwin, Bmincss Editar 

Editorial Board 
Mrs. Maky H. Abel C. F. Langwobiby Amy Daniels Ruth Wheeler Violet Rvlev 

Ei-Ogido J/fm6«rj— MarvE. Sweeny, President Ametican Home Economics Association 
NoLA Treat, Chairman Institution Economics Section 
Minna Denton, Chairman Science Section 
Ola Powell, ChairiDan Extension Education Section 
Lillian Peck, Chairman Textile Section 

t'oZ/jtoralorj— The Officers, Members of the Council, and Advisors 

CONTENTS 

\oi \\'iiY N(rr? Mrs. Max ll'ei! 337 

ID Care in the Oregon .\GRiciii,TLrRAL College PR(\ctice IIoi'se . . .1. Grace Johnson 34S 
>fE\v York Child Health Conference— Ijii>ressions and Reactions . Udcn T. Parsons 354 
; Price and Value of Textiles Evelyn M. llickmans 359 

I .'R THE HOMEMAKER 

Cooperative Buying llcrschd II. Jones 367 

"Subway" Hakery in X'eruln 374 

One Woman's Solution llcslcr M. Conk'.ht ami Pauline D. Partridge 375 

Editorial 377 

The Question Bo.v 37S 

The Open Eorum 379 



The Journal of Houe Economics is published monthly by the American Home Economics Association 
J2.00 A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.35. CANADIAN J2.20. SINGLE COPIES 25 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Check, Express O.-der or Postal Money Order, payable to the' 
American Home Economics Association. Currency unless mailed in a registered letter is at the sender's risk. 

NOTICE. W'hen payment is made by check no receipt will be sent unless requested. 

CHANGE IN ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent two weeks before the date of issue on which 
the change is to take cUect. The subscriber's Old Address should be clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCI.\TION 1211 Cathedral St., Baitiuore, Md. 

The JoimNAL or Houe Econouics is on sale at John Wanamaker's, Philadelphia: The Old Comer Book Store, Boston; 
A. C. McClurg's, Chicago; Baltimore News Company, Baltimore; Woodward and Lothrop, Washington 



JOVRSAL Of UOME LCOXOtllCS—ADVERriSEUEXTS 




k 



r rr 



THE KEYSTONE 
OF GOOD BAKING 

Your biscuits, rolls, gems and other dointy 
I)rcacl-,slufr8 con be no belter tliciii ibe bak- 
ing powder wiln which they arc nictle. 
Good bilking powder is tlie leavening iigent 
uit mtikes them light ond digesliljle. Il is 
llie keystone in the mtiking of appetizing, 
wholesome cake, biscuits, niutTins, etc. 



Of course, you want only the best of bilk- 
ing powder, and this is always assured 
when you use 

ROYAL 

Baking Powder 



Miide from 

Cream of Tartar 

derived from 

Grapes 




In writing advertisers, please mention Journ il of Home Economics 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. XII AUGUST, 1920 No. 8 

IF NOT WHY NOT ? 

MRS. MAX WEST 

Every morning, as I sit at my desk, there passes my window an entranc- 
ing procession. It is composed of what the older writers would have 
described as "youths and maidens," but who call themselves and each 
other "men" and "girls." The procession is headed for the great 
State University, rearing its stately white walls against a background of 
green hills, a few blocks further down the street. If the entire procession 
should go down our street some morning, I should need to provide 
myself with a comfortable chair, for it would be composed of more than 
nine thousand students who have come here from all parts of the United 
States, including its island possessions, and from many foreign countries. 

The section I am pri\"ileged to observe drifts past singly, in couples, 
or in groups, and their talk and laughter spills out along the way. They 
are as indilTerent to possible observers as they are to the sidewalk beneath 
iheir springing feet, or the blue over their proud young heads. The 
larlh and the fulness thereof — including commentators — is theirs; why, 
they would probably say, worry? 

Just now the spectacle is become particularly fascinating. The mild 
spring days have brought out a rainbow mass of color in the coats, 
sweaters, and smocks of the girls, of every possible hue, as well as some 
impossible ones. Apparently there is no limit upon the \avidness of 
acceptable color, and, while one might cavil at individual taste occasion- 
ally, the mass effect as displayed at student gatlierings, especially when 
seen against the gray background of their outdoor theater, is delightful. 

But if their garments are varied, there is a striking general similarity 
among them. Is it, I wonder, that America is really evolving a stand- 

337 



338 THE JOURNAL OF HOifE ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

ard tyi^c of young woman? At a litUe distance they look so much alike 
that it is quite amazing, and I am always studjang to find out whether it 
is because they all adhere rather closely to the prevailing vogue in gar- 
mcjits, coijjure, and carriage, or whether there is not a more fundamental 
resemblance, really pointing to the de\elopment of a recognizable t>'pc? 
If it is due only to the sequaciousness of the human being, especially the 
female, it is an interesting phenomenon and one worthy to be studied. 

At least nine out of every ten of the girls are wearing plaid skirts — 
kilt-, box-, or accordion-pleated, as the advertisements say, accom- 
panied by a sport coat or sweater matching the predominant color of 
the skirt. Their heads, usually bare in this climate, have a notably 
uniform appearance at a little distance. Some are still using the shiny, 
varnished effect of the past year or two, with the hair tightly confined in 
invisible nets; others have adopted a new vogue in which tight little 
blobs of hair alternate with huge puffs, bulging out in unexpected places, 
the whole stiffly marcelled. No pins or other ornaments are worn, nor 
— thanks be! — any black velvet bandeaus cutting the forehead in two. 

Nothing delights me more about their get-up than their shoes. For 
the greater part of these girls evidently eschew French heels, at least for 
the Campus, and their walk is, in consequence, a delight to behold. 
Since they do not have to balance the weight of their \igorous young 
bodies on pegs or stilts, they are able to plant their feet squarely at every 
step, with a freedom of action that is in sharp contrast to the mincing, 
silly walk of the exceptional girl who passes, bound both by bad shoes and 
a tight skirt. But do not mistake me! If the Washington group, who 
once debated the question as to whether highbrowness varies inversely 
with the height of one's heels, could look at these girls they would realize 
that there is no question at all, for the low or moderate heels are by no 
means confined to the frumps — if such there be ! They are all stylishly 
and — alas! — expensively shod. The price for these popular college shoes 
is from $10.00 a pair up, mostly up! 

The "men" have a vogue no less pronounced than that of the women. 
This is for what I understand to be described in their parlance as "cords;" 
that is, corduroy trousers, mostly of a light bro^Ti, but shading into buff, 
and, occasionally, of a bright yellow. Being a stranger, I have not yet 
learned the genesis of these garments. Possibly they have come as a 
shading off from the khaki of recent seasons; possibly the male soul, too, 
feels the need for expressing his youth and joy of li\ing in color; probably 
the plain reason is their comparative cheapness. WTien a new tailor. 



1920] IF NOT WHY NOT 339 

made overcoat, costing $75.00, is so poor that the buttons pull out of 
the very texture of the cloth the first winter, I wonder how boys like 
these, many of whom are paying their own way through college, can 
afford to wear wool clothing at all. 

Candor compels me to say, however, that "cords" are not things of 
beauty undefiled. Usually far otherwise. Streaked with stains from 
lying on convenient and sun-warmed grass plots in off hours, or soiled 
with the black mud of the athletic fields, they testify to their owners' inde- 
pendence of mind, for e\idently it is not a la mode to launder them any 
too often. (Perhaps they shrink !) But who cares, if the lads are happy, 
bless 'em! Certainly not their humble reporter. 

I think the strongest single impression I get from them aD, men and 
women alike, is their beauty — a beauty of form, color, and fine, upstanding 
posture, proclaiming that within them the springs of health are bubbling 
high. It restores one's faith in good old Mother Nature. Surely a 
race such as these ought to be able to build a new and better civilization 
upon the earth. 

The question ever recurring to my mind as I watch the charming pano- 
rama unfold itself each day is one which has been asked, since the days 
of Aristotle, concerning the purpose of education. \Vhat are all these 
thousands of young people here for; what will they get out of it; what 
lode star draws them here in such hordes that they swamp the li\-ing 
quarters of the town, and overwhelm the University? There isn't a 
university or college in this country that could adequately meet such a 
demand. It was said that one of the historj- classes had at the begiiming 
of the semester over twelve hundred registrants! It is obWously im- 
possible for any conceivable teaching force, at present constituted, to do 
fine intensive work when faced with such crowded class rooms; it is 
appalling alike from the standpoint of teacher and pupil. And the same 
cry is going up from colleges and universities of all sorts in ever>' part 
of the country. Nothing can be plainer, it seems to me, than the demand 
of the new era for more money for education, a demand which must, of 
course, be met. ..\n education has come, since the war, to be a pearl of 
greater price than ever before. The value of the trained and well-stored 
mind has been demonstrated in a thousand thrilling instances to all the 
boys who went to war. The star of the college professor has shone out 
in no uncertain light. The plodder, the bookworm, the dreamer, the 
absent-minded blunderbuss, each has come unmistakably into his own. 
It has suddenly become apparent to hordes of young people that a 



340 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [August 

degree is something more than an aflectation, and that the college bred 
are not, necessarily, snobs' 

These eager thousands of young people, and other eager thousands the 
country over, are without doubt making the basic assumption that if 
they put themselves in the hands of the university for four years the 
university will, at the end of that time, send them forth "educated." 
That they will thenceforth be able to secure better positions, higher paid 
and more important work, in short, be belter fitted to cope with life. 
This assumption is certainly made in the homes from which the greater 
part of this army comes. I feel rather chokey when I think of that part 
of it, remembering all the sacrifices, the unsellishness, the givings-up, 
that son or daughter may be sent to college. The loneliness of fathers 
and mothers on distant farms and ranches, their patient wonderment 
as the stories of initiation larks, circuses, and revelries of many kinds 
filter back to them as to what time can be left for study, all raise the 
insistent question: what, after all, are these young people going to get 
out of it? Are our great institutions of popular education really going 
to justify this enormous trust? ^\^lat will be the verdict as life subjects 
these boys and girls to its acid test? 

One flippant reply which can always be made to this (juery is, why 
worry? Only one or tw'O per cent of our children ever get as far as college 
in their educational careers, so the good or ill effect of college life is not 
a matter for general concern. In rebuttal, it is only necessary to point 
to the attendance records at practically all colleges in the year 1919-20. 
There can be little question that there is a dcfmite setting of the tide 
toward our institutions for higher learning, which will, if the college rises 
to its opportunity, continue to swell as the years go by. How this de- 
mand is to be met, both extensively and intensively, is a matter for 
grave concern. 

It all comes back finally to abstruse questions of educational values, 
and, primarily, to that of the real purpose of education. Men have 
given and are gi^■ing their lives to the patient study of such questions; 
it is not likely that the discussions will cease for some generations to come. 
But for the modest purposes of these comments we may be permitted 
to assume that the purpose of education is threefold; first, the strength- 
ening and developing of the mind, per se; second, the acquisition of knowl- 
edge for cultural purposes; and third, to learn the fundamental principles, 
at least, of one's task in life. To these a fourth might well be added, 
that of learning health habits, though the education for health should 



1920] IF NOT WHY NOT 341 

have been begun as far back as any education can begin, long before the 
college age. This part of their task most institutions of higher learning 
are doing admirably, some of them supremely well. It is quite safe to 
say, I beheve, that nowadays most young people have better care of their 
health and development in college than they do in the smother of mater- 
nal injudiciousncss in their own homes. It is hardly necessary to enlarge 
upon the virtues of the present day regime in most first-class colleges. 
The provision of time and equipment for all sorts of health-giving exer- 
cises; the prompt isolation of illness, and its treatment in properly 
equipped institutions, when necessary, are well known. Often, indeed, it 
is this phase of college life which most recommends it to parents, and, since 
so much of our education has to work backwards, it is to be hoped that 
possibly sometime the health ideals taught in college may seep down- 
ward through the lower schools and fmally, into the home itself, where 
most of the mischief is now done. 

What these young people will actually take away with them at the 
end of their college courses will, it seems to me, be largely determined by 
three factors; first, the judgment with which the course of study is selected 
to lit the particular mentality and type, and the proportion of "brain- 
stretchers" to "snaps" in it; second, and very much, upon the personality 
of the professors and instructors under whose influence a student chiefly 
comes — an important point in the selection of a major subject; and, per- 
haps most of all, upon the amount of the mental gold the candidate has 
to take with him when he starts out to fetch the intellectual wealth of 
the Indies. If you cannot make a purse out of a sow's ear, you may be 
able to make something else quite as useful, and the need for judicious 
student advisers who are a combination of psychologist, psycho-analyst, 
physiologist, and specialist in vocational guidance, as well as counsellor 
and friend, is a crying one in every coflege. 

This last factor, that is, the fitness of the boy or girl to take on educa- 
tion, is not within the control of the colleges, save to the extent that they 
are able to select their students through the medium of stiffened entrance 
examinations. But for the others it has the fullest and gravest respons- 
ibility, although it can only fulfill this responsibility when the body of 
the people furnish the vast sums of money which such a vast undertaking 
demands. Several great institutions are, at this moment, almost in 
financial straits, owing to the unexpected, because unprecedented, de- 
mand upon their resources of every sort, — buildings, equipment, Uxing 
halls, and, most of all, teachers. The drain upon the teaching forces 



342 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

of our best colleges and universities has been severe for some years, and 
will continue as long as highly trained men and women are offered better 
salaries in other fields. One thing is certain, and that is that as long 
as our institutions of higher education must carry a certain proportion 
of men and women of mediocre ability upon their staff — as they must do 
until the outrageous standards of paj-ment can be uprooted and a fair 
li\ing scale established— that our young people are going to be sadly 
the losers in this great game of education. This, too, is a matter that 
reaches far back into the beginnings of things. One of the biting ques- 
tions we parents must always be asking ourselves is why we permit the 
training and teaching of our little boys and girls during the years which 
arc, by all odds, the most important in their entire lives, when the wax 
is soft to the moldcr's hands, to be given over in a very large number of 
instances, if not usually, to young girls, irresponsible, inexperienced and 
untrained, who are often as innocent of the basal sciences, psychology, 
pedagogy, sociology, and economics, as they are of Sanscrit? Is it not 
of infinitely greater importance to the welfare of America that her hordes 
of children between the ages of five and twelve shall be well taught, than 
that the fraction which finally reaches college should be, since these older 
ones are able, to some extent, at least, to discount the wisdom of their 
elders. But this, like health eduction, is an ideal. Certainly it will not 
be realized as long as we are willing to permit the profession of teaching 
to be starved. 

It is a perfectly safe prognosis that, as far as universities and colleges 
are concerned, the money will be forthcoming. Neither state legislatures 
nor private citizens with wealth will be able to withstand the insistent 
demand which is going up in ever>' part of the country- and we may safely 
assume that the necessary expansion will be made possible, and that 
verj' soon. Assuming this, we who are parents, with sons and daughters 
soon to be sent to college, may, in all propriety, ask the colleges what they 
are going to do for our precious ones. Is it going to be worth all it will 
cost them, and us, whose happiness will lie in their happiness and success 
in the business of living? 

As I look at it, the answer may be affirmative with regard to men, 
more surely than with regard to women. Young men, like those I see 
every day, appear to me to have a pretty clear idea of what they have 
come to college for, and are making it plain to the college. WTiether the 
admixture of "brain-stretching" courses and those which particularly 
bestow that elusive quality we call culture is as large as one might wish, 
is doubtless open to question. Here is where the highly competent 



1920] IF NOT WHY NOT 343 

student adviser is so sorely needed. But on the vocational side there 
can be no question that the two universities with which I am best 
acquainted, and I doubt not others, are doing a work of immeasurable 
value. It is hardly possible to mention an avenue of interest in which 
the university does not stand ready to act as guide, counsellor, and 
friend. From road making and concrete work, to joumaHsm and archi- 
tecture, the list of subjects taught is endless. It would seem that the 
feast spread is bountiful beyond telling. If the student fails to find 
dishes to his liking and upon which he will thrive, it is not the fault of 
the menu makers. 

But with respect to the girls, one can hardly feel so secure. 

Women today are asking exactly the same things of education as men; 
to be developed in all their powers and faculties, that they may have 
life and have it more abundantly; and so trained that they may carry 
on their own special avocations with the greatest degrees of efficiency 
and success. Are they getting it? For answer, scan the reports of the 
United States Children's Bureau, the United States Bureau of the Census 
on Mortality Statistics, Marriage and Divorce, and on Benovolcnt Insti- 
tutions; or similar records for many a state or large city. 

Of course the pertinent answer may be made that it is not the college- 
trained woman who figures in these exhibits, since the proportion of 
her to the general population is small. To which reply might be made 
with the counter charge that the college bred woman is, in a serious 
number of cases, evading her responsibilities; first, by not marrying; 
second, by marrying late; and third, by refusing motherhood. But it 
is not my purpose here to enter upon these phases of the controversy.- 
The question I am raising is only with respect to the value of the college 
education to the successful working out of the manifest destiny of women, 
which is, as long as the present order of mundane things remains, to be 
the mother of children and the creator of the home — a destiny of greater 
importance to a suffering world than any ever dreamed of since Adam 
and Eve made a mess of things! 

We cannot get away from the eternal verities however we may squirm 
and wriggle. Men and women are not alike; their place and ofiice in 
the evolution of ci\ili2ation is and must always be different, though para- 
mount, and it is a useless waste of time to deny it or argue about it. The 
time has certainly come for women to tackle the problems involved and 
to demand from an expensive education that it fit them for these under- 
takings. 



344 THE JOURNAL OF HOMK ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

'ITiere are, it seems to me, two princii)al reasons why the girl docs not 
get all this out of her college training. The first lies in the fact that up 
to the very recent years, at least, the courses for women have been a 
slavish imitation of those for men. This for obvious reasons. Second, 
that the courses in homemaking. given admirably in a few colleges and 
partially in others, are regarded by too many girls as beneath their atten- 
tion, as being merely vocational and lacking in "brain-stretching" 
courses as well as in cultural values. Here is where I throw down a 
challenge to the colleges of every kind which admit women! It is "up" 
to them to dissipate such falsity and sham. Such \iews are not only 
nonsense but nonsense of a peculiarly dangerous and insidious variety, 
and educators must come to see this and to strive to create a sounder 
sense of proportion and a more wholesome evaluation of the factors in 
-education among the young women whose destinies they have undertaken 
to guide. 

Here, of course, my opponents will say that the girls won't take those 
-courses if they are ofTered, and I admit it. Probably not; certainly not 
in any great numbers while the present miasma pervades their minds 
that the one great purpose of an education is to get them a good job, pay- 
ing a large salary, preferably, in those economic and other fields where 
'they compete with men. 

I went the other night to a meeting of a club composed of Junior and 
Senior girls majoring in economics. The speaker they had invited to 
address them on the opportunities for women in the work of the world 
was one of the leading economists of the country. He spoke for an 
hour or two, setting forth with nice discrimination, the daily multiplying 
•openings for women in the various occupations, and especially for the 
■women trained in economics and kindred sciences, but all wage-earning, 
and all outside the home. At one moment he spoke of one of his own 
•women students who had taken the "best" job, in marrying and raising 
a family of five boys, but this was passed over, by the audience at least, 
as a lightsome interlude in the really serious discussion of the evening. 
At no other place in the warm fire of question and discussion that followed 
the speaker's address did the professions of homemaking and parenthood 
have a show. The assumption that every girl's ideal was a money 
making job, as soon as she graduates, was apparently concurred in 
without even raising the question. 

What has raised such ideals in the minds of our girls? First, of course, 
the pressure of social and industrial conditions as they are, — a pressure 



1920] IT NOT WHY NOT 345 

that might, without doubt, be traced back to some extent to the very 
fact of the sudden outpouring of women from the home into wage-earning 
industries, — but a tendency which instead of being discouraged by our 
educational authorities is, as I see it, being in every way fostered by 
them. Surely it is a solemn part of the responsibility of any college to 
see that its influence is toward the formation of sound policies and proper 
choices. Here, I am sure, lies one of its most valuable contributions 
to the education of men. Why not exert the same guiding force for 
women? Again the question reaches back into the fundamentals, but 
as in everj'thing educational most goodwill be accomplished by indirection. 
What is needed is a scrambling of the present curriculum for women as 
it usually exists, and the evolution of one built on the basis of a wise, de- 
liberated, and weighted selection of subjects of study with an enlightened 
set of educational values in mind, which accepts as settled such facts as 
these: that, since out of the home are the issues of life itself, no training, 
for those who are destined by immutable natural law to be home-makers 
in a new and much more demanding civilization than any the world has 
yet seen, can be too stern, too wide, too cultural. 

In such a curriculum she will have her mind trained, polished, sharp- 
ened by contact with the steel of mathematics and the sciences. She will 
need all the beauty, charity, and sweetness that the study of literature 
and the arts will give; and her horizons must be widened through the 
pursuit of history, social and political economics, and kindred subjects. 
But, and here is the fundamental point, all these subjects must have a 
positive relation to her special needs. There is no possible reason why 
the subjects of chemistry and physics, for example, should not be quite 
as effective in developing the mind if they relate to the manifold applica- 
tions of these sciences to the household ; economics and sociology are just 
as capable of broadening the outlook if they dwell upon the questions 
of domestic finance, household management, or consider the present 
state of the home as revealed by the study of the reports such as are 
above mentioned. History, too, could, with infinite profit, concern itself 
with the evolution and development of the home. There can be no 
possible question, of course, of this relation as regards the present 
courses in liberal arts. 

It will not be long, I think, before one of the great universities — for 
such development is bound to begin, I think, in one of the coeducational 
institutions rather than in the more cloistered atmosphere of colleges for 
women — will "step on the gas," to use a pungent (no pun intended!) 



346 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

phrase of the moment, and spring suddenly forward with this idea worked 
out in detail. In this college there will be some readjustments to be 
made. And a new department will be established (possibly to be called the 
Chair of Domology, or the Science of the Home or of Human Relations) 
in which basal work in this new science may be carried on. Research 
must needs be an important and even preliminary factor in such a plan, 
and there will be an infinitely wide field for such research and for the 
application of the theories which may be evolved from it. Such a course 
as this will at once ser\-c two purposes, first that of dignifying the whole 
matter and thus changing and influencing women students to look upon 
it in a new light; second, of beginning to solve some of the many problems 
with which the whole subject is now complicated; and, third, the setting 
in motion, chiefly through the resultant effect of such study upon women, 
forces which will help to bring them into more normal relation to the 
home, and finaUy help to cure some of the sorrows of the world today. 

It will, of course, be replied that many girls may not have a chance to 
marry; that many will prefer a career; that people cannot marry young 
any more, that a young man cannot alone support a home and wife, with 
a possible family; that domestic labor is slavery; that modem girls are 
not willing to bear such burdens as they see older women bearing; that 
their expensive educations will be throwTi away; that the husband will 
soon grow away from the wife, and so on, ad iitfinilutn. Exactly! All 
these things but prove my case. There is so much that is wrong and 
bad about the domestic situation as it stands today that there is sore need 
for study of the severest sort to see how it may be made right. The 
home, as an institution, is the center and core of all cixilizations and it 
is useless to try palliative measures while the source of infection remains 
untouched. If for one generation women would put their minds upon 
the solution of these problems that lie at the very heart of national and 
private happiness and welfare, the dawn of a new and better era for a 
weary and distracted world would arise. One of the first demands they 
will inevitably make in such an enterprise will be for new ideals in the 
education of their daughters. 

Is it not absurd — would it not be laughable, if it were not in effect a 
tragedy — that the only one in aU the \vide range of human professions 
that people would dream of entering without (oftentimes) a vestige of 
special preparation for it, should be by all odds the most vitally important 
one? We would never dream of permitting our 3'oung people to engage 
in any important money making occupation ^\•ithout fortifying them 



1920J IF NOT WHY NOT 347 

with such education as could be afforded, or, at least, consciously recog- 
nizing the need and regretting its absence. Here is what Herbert Spencer 
thought about it: 

If by some strange chance not a vestige of us descended to the remote 
future save a pile of our school-books or some college examination papers, 
we may imagine how puzzled an antiquarian of the period would be on find- 
ing in them no indication that the learners were ever hkely to be parents. 
"This must have been the curriculum for their celibates," we may fancy him 
concluding. "I perceive here an elaborate preparation for many things; 
especially for reading the books of extinct nations and of coexisting nations 
(from which indeed it seems clear that these people had very httle worth 
reading in their own tongue) ; but I find no reference whatever to the bringing 
up of children. They could not have been so absurd as to omit all training 
for this gravest of responsibilities. Evidently, then, this was the school 
course of one of their monastic orders." 

As I write these words, we women are waiting breathlessly for one 
or another state to assume the honor of being the thirty-sLxth to ratify 
the Anthony Amendment. Before these words are read there is little 
doubt that this will be a fact accomplished, and we shall be free to take 
the place in the affairs of our beloved country that a blind stupidity 
has so long denied us. It might be pertinent to inquire what the uni- 
versities and colleges are doing to fit women for these new duties, but 
this is aside from my present purpose, and is, I believe, a question which 
will be answered as soon as the greater one is opened in a big way. For 
there is no doubt that women's political power will be directed toward 
matters which relate chiefly to the home, children, and women, and by 
the very fact that her attention is turned to these subjects she will be 
able to see farther into the whole mass of related questions, including 
the education of her daughters. 

If I were to ask one of these pretty creatures who so delightfully adorns 
my immediate landscape each day, what she thinks about all this, I 
might or might not get an illuminating answer, but I am certain that 
down deep in her heart there is the picture of a home in which she will 
some time be the center and light, and that she knows, though she may 
never admit it to me, that the delectable position she is pursuing so 
ardently today is really only one to be held while she is waiting. Is it 
not a great pity that she has fallen between two educational stools, and 
often is being fitted, supremely well, neither for the one thing or the other? 



348 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

CHILD CARE IN THE OREGON' AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE 
PRACTICE HOUSE 

A. GRACE JOUNSON 
Professor of IIousehM Adminislration, Oregon Agricultural CoUege 

The School of Home Economics of the Oregon Agricultural College 
first ofTcred a lecture course in mothercraft five years ago. This course 
has developed from a very condensed one-credit elective course to a 
three-credit required course in child care. This school established a 
Practice House' in September of 1916. Here the laboratory course of 
household management is offered to junior and senior students. Both 
of these courses have been very popular and have justified their estab- 
lishment. However we have thought from the beginning, as have 
other colleges,' that the most important piece of work of the household, 
the work around which the average household should center, has been 
omitted, that is, actual practice in the care and training of the child. 

If a woman needs laborator}' practice in care of the house to teach 
the management of the household operations, of the income, of family 
and community relations there seems to be every reason why she should 
need laboratory practice in the most important duty which ever falls 
to her lot. Many people have accepted the theory that such training 
is most desirable from the standpoint of the student but only a few 
have believed that it would not be injurious to the child in question. 
Yet the vast majority of children are cared for by parents who have 
never had any training in child care and who have no expert supervision 
when doing the work for the first time. There seems to be no psycho- 
logical theory to prove that the position of parenthood alone gives all 
that is necessary for the proper care and training of the child. 

On the contrary there seems ever>' reason to believe that from the 
standpoint of the adult much better work can be done when the mother 
has had some experience prior to motherhood in caring for and training 
children under the guidance of a trained and experienced person. The 
child cared for under such conditions should receive better care and 
training than the one who is under the care of a person wholly inex- 
perienced in such work even though that person be the mother. It is 
generally conceded that no child is so fortunate as the one whose lot it 

^Journai of Home Economics, Feb., 1917, p. 71. 
^Journal of Home Economics, Jan., 1920, p. 28. 



1920] CHILD CARE IN OREGON AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE 349 

is to be brought up in its own home by its own parents, who realize the 
great responsibility of parenthood and who exercise "love, firmness, 
and intelligence" in the care and training of their own child. It is to 
give young women experience that will result in greater intelligence in 
the bringing up of their own children that child care has been made a 
part of our practice house training. 

Our practice house is open to junior and senior students and pre- 
requisites for entrance to the house include such courses as housewifery, 
dietetics, and child care, as well as psychology — a college requirement 
for graduation. Students who have completed such courses should be 
capable of caring for children under proper supervision. 

When the work was started it was our intention to make an effort to 
secure a child from a children's home, but before the final plans were 
made Patsy, a perfectly normal child of sixteen months, came to our 
attention. Her mother was to be a graduate student of the institution 
for a year and it was necessary to "farm the child out" to strangers who 
would be paid to care for her. It was an easy matter to work out a 
plan whereby the mother could be a resident in the house during the 
period while the child was becoming acquainted with the new life. 
After six weeks the student mother became a housemother in a small 
nearby dormitory housing twenty-two girls. This made it possible for 
Patsy to see her mother frequently and still be cared for by students 
li\'ing in the practice house. 

Much discouragement was offered by outsiders, many people seeming 
to feel that it was perfectly proper to have a child from an orphanage 
cared for in a practice house but that it was very dangerous for the 
child with a parent. Others seemed to feel that the child would have 
its health ruined while almost every one was confident that it would 
be "terribly spoiled." Had it not been for an unlimited amount of 
faith in the ultimate success of the experiment we should have grown 
faint hearted before the child arrived. However, there was the occa- 
sional young mother who came to us and expressed a profound regret at 
not having had such responsibility and training before her own child 
arrived. 

After seven and one-half months of the experiment we are convinced 
that child care is a most vital part of practice house training, and we 
have obtained Uie confidence of those who know of our work. In fact 
two of our own graduates, who have been in the College since our prac- 
tice house was established and know the value of the training received 



350 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOXaCS (AugUSt 

there, have offered their babies to us for a period during which they find 
it necessary to devote a large share of their time to other work. One of 
these young mothers, whose husband's work keeps him away from home 
a part of the time and who is unal^lc at present to have a permanent 
home, is now on the campus studying for a few months. Her year-old 
son has become a member of the practice house family and after only a 
few weeks of work with two babies we feel sure that we have taken 
another step forward in child care. The mother of the baby is board- 
ing in the house. 

PROBLEMS OF CHILD CARE 

Food. Patsy is on a diet and schedule for a normal child of her 
age. A defmite schedule is posted and the nurse maid is responsible 
for all food and all feedings. Our students have demonstrated to their 
own satisfaction that the dislike of a child for any kind of wholesome 
food is largely psychological. No new food which should enter the 
diet has ever been refused. Patsy had not been trained to eat cereal 
or to drink her milk from a glass when she came to us. Both of these 
habits were established within a few days and with no unhappiness to 
the child. The use of psychology was all that was necessary. The 
question of having the chDd ask for food which she should not have has 
never been a problem at all. Her meal schedule is not the same as that 
of the family, her breakfast and dinner coming later and her supper 
coming earlier. During the family dinner, she, not being hungry, is 
most content to play with her toys in the living room. This seems to be 
most surprising to our guests. Parents, grandparents, and all who come 
to the house as dinner guests admit that they have never seen a happier 
and better baby at meal time. This is partly because we started right. 
There has never been a heart-ache or a tear, because it was the right 
thing that was done first. 

Sleep. The nurse maid sleeps in the same room with the children. 
This is a very large south-west room with three e.xtra large windows. 
Patsy's rest hours consist of a long night which is seldom interrupted 
by wakefulness, and a three hour sleep in the middle of the day. Here 
again the students have demonstrated to themselves that a healthy 
child likes to go to sleep. Many a girl has claimed that the little smile, 
the final "good night" as the covers were tucked in are pay for all the 
work a baby has made necessary during the day. Our nearest neighbor 
whose sleeping porch is only thirty or forty feet from the babies' sleep- 
ing room claims never to have heard the children at night. 



1920] CHU.D CARE IN OREGON AGRICXJLTURAL COLLEGE 351 

Play. Patsy was walking when she came to us. She has always 
been allowed to play out when the weather would permit. A sand box 
on a pergola has given hours of happiness. Oregon is a land of winter 
rain but the north porch which is seldom wet furnished a place where 
some outside exercise could be had even on the worst days. 

Health. Patsy is one of the few children of the town who have not 
had whooping cough during the winter. She has had a cold twice. 
Both colds had an effect upon her development curve and both were 
contracted during a vacation when she was taken to her grandmother's 
on a train. 

Training. A very important part of our problem has been the giving 
of proper training. We started with a child who might easily have been 
spoiled. She is pretty, has beautiful brown eyes and hair, and a will of 
her own. But since she had a sensible mother there were no bad habits 
to overcome. We have exercised gentleness and firmness and have 
never tried to amuse the child. The result is that she is wholly unaware 
of her own charms, does not try to show off, and is most natural in her 
manner, neither forward nor undesirably timid. 

Her vocabulary has developed from a few baby words to long sen- 
tences that are easily understood. Her memory of former residents of 
the house is very interesting for she calls them by name months after 
they have left the house. 

We knew that the many study tables and dressers with their attrac- 
tive articles would be fascinating in the beginning, so we planned to 
have certain toys on each floor and checked the first attempt to play 
with the girls' belongings. Students do not offer their belongings as 
toys. Ail toys are kept in interesting baskets and there is never any 
question about putting them away when the right method is used. 

The greatest problem in training has been presented from the outside. 
The faculty woman who is in charge of a practice house can easily 
manage her own family but she cannot get an entire college community 
to keep its distance when a lovable child, who is being watched by 
everyone, goes for an airing. Fortunately, the practice house family 
has not made a "plaything" of the child and she therefore enters a 
protest when every stranger insists on imposing on her when she is 
out. However, she will shake hands and salute strangers quite properly 
if they will keep hands off. This has been a great asset. It is appall- 
ing to see how few people realize that a child is an indi\'idual and not a 
toy to be tossed about by evcrj'one who chooses. 



352 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

PROBLEMS OF MANAGEMENT 

Equipment. Practically all equipment such as bed, toilet chair, and 
clothing has been furnished by the mother. This is simple and has been 
added to from house funds or by students who wanted to make gifts. 
Another year we hope to have the entire wardrobe of the child planned 
and worked out in our household art classes. Some pieces have been 
made and donated by students this year. 

Cost. Carriage and high chair have been donated. Some clothing 
and other small pieces of equipment have been purchased by the house. 
This has totaled about S7.00 for 1\ months. The mother has paid 
$10.00 a month toward the support of the child. This has just about 
covered the cost of food at present prices. 

Food. Students are expected to be familiar with child feeding through 
their course in child care. Little extra preparation of foods has been 
necessary, the nurse maid simply using from the family supply in most 
cases, being careful to see that she is always a little ahead of the baby's 
needs as to market orders. 

Laundry. The laundry for the baby has been done by the nurse 
maid when there was the one child only, but now that we have two, it 
seems advisable to have tliis work done by the laundress, whose duties 
are usually light, since she is only responsible for the washing and iron- 
ing of table linens and the sending out of the bed and bathroom linens 
of the house. The new plan has worked well, the nurse maid being 
careful to have all articles in the hands of the laundress by a certain 
hour in the morning and she ha\'ing those same articles back in the 
hands of the nurse maid in twenty-four hours. 

Supervision oj Play. Most of this has been done without the child 
being aware of it. The nurse maid can easily go about her other duties 
while the child plays in the same room or an adjoining one. When 
Patsy is on a porch plajdng the student may work inside a window with 
curtain thrown back. Concentrated study over long periods of time is 
impossible. This is a good time to sew or mend. The best time for 
the care taker to do her heaviest studying is when the child is in bed. 

Time. All figures must be approximate. The time actually spent 
in caring for Patsy has varied from 4^ hours a day to 6§ hours depend- 
ing upon the speed and skill of the student. Five hours would perhaps 
be a good average for the amount of time in which nothing else is done. 



1920] CHILD CARE IN OREGON AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE 353 

Student's Schedule. Since our students remain in the house one-half 
of a term and elect practice teaching or tea room management the other 
half of the term, most of them have easy schedules to adjust, since in 
neither case do they schedule many forenoon classes. A substitute 
nurse maid schedule is necessary to make it possible for students to 
attend classes. An hour is occasionally found when every member of 
the family has a class. The student in charge is expected to secure a 
former member of the house who comes for that hour. Only on three or 
four hours during the e'ntire year has it been necessary for a student to 
miss a class and that in every case has been the home management 
class, running parallel with practice house work. 

CONCLUSIONS 

After 7^ months experience with child care as a part of practice 
house training the staff of the School of Home Economics as well as 40 
students who have helped to care for the children have reached the 
conclusion that: 

1. The work should be continued for these reasons: 

a. It gives valuable training to students. 

b. It furnishes excellent care to the children. 

c. It does not "spoil" the child. 

d. The students are enthusiastic about the work. 

e. It makes the practice house more homelike. 

f. It helps to train for the most important function of women — 
motherhood. 

2. That two children of different ages should be taken whenever 
possible. 



354 THE JOURNAL OF HOifE ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

THE NEW YORK CIIII.U IIIIALTH CONFERENCE— IMPRES- 
SIONS AND REACTIONS' 

HELEN T. PARSON'S 
Jokni Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public Health 

\t is said that there are forty agencies in New York City concerned in, 
'or devoted to, Child Welfare. At the bei^nning of a movement of this 
kind there arc certain advantages in a multiplicity of independent efforts 
to solve the given problem. While some of these efforts will be top heavy 
with a one idea, this very fact brings out the individual phases of the 
problem with a vividness that one conservative, well-balanced efTort 
would find difficult to accomplish in the formative stages of the move- 
ment. The well rounded program, which must be the next stage if 
progress is to continue, may well acknowledge its debt to the enthusiastic 
pioneers, even to those who beheved in panaceas. 

Throughout the program of the Child Health Conference this vivid- 
ness of the individual phase was noticeable, even when the speaker 
sketched in a comprehensive plan of attack. It was shown, for example, 
what may be done by utilizing a child's eagerness to take part in a con- 
structive enterprise. An instance was cited of a sanitarj'^ survey carried 
out by school children. A map of the town was plotted showing the 
exact location of privies, bad wells, etc., and the map was hung in the 
local postoffice, to the consternation of the citizens. 

It was pointed out by another speaker how necessary is vividness of 
presentation in enlisting the attention and cooperation of the child at 
the beginning of any efTort to correct faulty health habits, and the prac- 
tical use which may be made of the services of an advertising expert in 
passing upon printed matter. 

On the other hand, it was emphasized that the cr>-stallizing of the 
child's initial interest into health habits might be by far the more difficult 
and important process. Frequent and detailed reports by the child, 
reinforced by class rivalry and public opinion among classmates, assist 
in converting knowledge and temporary interest into permanent and 
desirable health habits. The story of the boy who attempted to take 
nine baths in one afternoon in order to square his record, which was dis- 
gracing that of his class, gives an insight not only into the compelling 

' New York Child Health Conference held May 19 to 21, 1920, at the Academy of Medi- 
cine, New York City. 



1920] THE NEW YORK CHILD HEALTH CONFERENCE 355 

power of childish public opinion, but perhaps even more into the ingen- 
ious if well-meant subterfuges of the child mind in attempting to deal 
with those who would change his habits. 

The subject of the school luncheon was, of course, a live topic. The 
history of the movement both in England and in America was sketched, 
and data concerning the e.xtent to which the movement has spread, and 
the results it has accomplished, were given. Especially good results in 
bringing malnourished children up to normal weight have followed the 
use of the mid-morning and mid-afternoon luncheon. In the case of 
children for whom it is necessary to provide milk on account of poverty, 
the home may still be made a contributor to the enterprise by the re- 
quirement that the child bring a bottle — a clean bottle — each day from 
home. A warning was sounded against regarding school lunches as a 
panacea or allowing abuses to creep in, such as an assumption on the 
part of parents that food given at school is to be regarded as a substitu- 
tion for, not an addition to, food given at home. Except in so far as it 
may be for the purpose of scientific demonstration, or propaganda, 
school feeding fails of its chief function if it is used merely for the purpose 
of putting food into children, and not also of establishing standards and 
food habits. As an illustration of the need for better selection of food, 
it was stated that in many countrj' districts in Indiana the diet of the 
people resembles a pre-pellagra diet. In some districts 100 per cent of 
the questionnaires tabulated confessed to a condition of "stomach trou- 
ble" and the use of patent medicines. The general custom of eating a 
big Sunday dinner, with its unfortunate after effects, accounted for 
many slumps in weight among the children. 

The possible relation between digestive upsets in infants and conse- 
quent adult digestive ailments was suggested, as was also the importance 
of being well-born and breast fed as a start toward normal health. 

The inter-relationship between tuberculosis and malnutrition was 
pointed out: on the one hand malnutrition predisposes to infection; and 
on the other, a strikingly large proportion of cases of malnutrition among 
young children may be attributed to a sub-acute tubercular infection 
not ordinarily correctly diagnosed. 

Weaknesses in existing methods for determining and grading malnu- 
trition by physicians were criticised, and an attempt made to list aids 
to diagnosis in the order of their relative importance, as follows: 

1. Weight for height — the most useful tables are perhaps those which 
take the age factor into account also, as children stunted in height may 
not be detected by the simple weight for height relation. 



356 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS (AugUSt 

2. Appearance, such as color, posture, nervousness, alertness or 
apathy. 

3. The amount of fat. 

4. The muscles of arms and legs. 

5. Bony framework — wrists, breadth of shoulders and hips. 

A belief in the overshadowing importance of attention to factors other 
than an unsatisfactory diet in combating malnutrition was voiced by 
more than one speaker. These other conditions needing attention and 
correction include: disease, and such physical defects as bad teeth, ade- 
noids, tonsils, and obstructed breathing; irregular and rapid eating and 
gulping of liquids; faulty posture, over- fatigue, home study, and cur- 
tailed sleep, due either to reading in bed. sleeping with others, or to 
the presence of others in the room; maladjustment with the en\ironment, 
and tension in the home atmosphere. 

A plea was made for a broader training for the community nutrition 
worker than has been considered essential for the tj-pical dietitian of the 
past, and it was urged that opportunity be given for practice work under 
supervision at a center where good standards for field w-ork have already 
been established. 

Several agencies compete for the responsibility of administering and 
directing child health acti\ities: 

1. Philanthropic and social agencies, ha\nng already the most intimate 
contact with the home, and experience as messengers of child health, 
might assume the chief responsibility and do consistent follow-up work 
from the pre-natal period on, bridging the gap between home and school 
and insuring that children be taken to physicians — all children for pe- 
riodic examination, the physically defective for the removal of defects. 

2. The future clinic with enlarged functions might assume chief re- 
sponsibility, super\-ising the pre-natal period, insuring breast feeding and 
proper infant care, guarding the important pre-school and adolescent 
periods, and supervising both mental and physical hygiene, using philan- 
thropic, municipal, volunteer, and school acti\"ities to assist in its work. 

3. Educators with their ability to try out methods experimentally, 
pass judgment, admit limitations, and distribute responsibility for proj- 
ects, might include the direction of child health activities among the 
functions of the school, justifying their leadership by the belief that one 
of the most influential messengers of health to the home and pre-school 
child is the school child himself when given the proper information and 
the proper impetus, and that the class-room method is an economical 
method for gi\'ing him this information and impetus. 



1920] THE NEW YORK CHILD HEALTH CONPERENCE 357 

It seems plain that many unanswered questions involve both technical 
knowledge (not solely medical) and an understanding of sound psy- 
chological and pedagogical principles. Such questions as the following 
must be answered: 

What standards shall we accept in judging a normal child? Wha.t is 
the cause of seasonal variation in growth and what allowance is to be 
made for it in determining progress? In the formation of health hab- 
its what methods are practical in insuring that no lapses shall occur in 
the important formative period? How often should reports be submitted 
by the children? What super\ision of these reports is necessary? Can 
any of this be delegated to the children themselves? \\Tiich methods of 
arousing enthusiasm are followed by a sustained interest, and which 
by a slump? \\Tiat degree of permanency of health habits may be ex- 
pected after intensive work has ceased? Is there anj^ unexplained value 
in the "sipping" rather than the drinking of milk to explain the constant 
stress placed upon the former method by child health workers in spite 
of the clear demonstration by investigators-' that the latter method in- 
sures a much finer curd in the stomach? Is the 5 meals a day plan which 
works such magic in the case of the undernourished diild a sound dietetic 
regimen for the normal child also? 

The rapidity with which the child health movement has gained ground 
is due in no small measure to the very definiteness of the standards for 
Judging malnutrition and for gauging progress in correcting this condi- 
tion. This has had the effect at times of an overemphasis on normal 
weight as such, and a too great confidence that the whole problem is 
being adequately met if everything possible is being done to bring the 
underweight children of a community up to normal weight. There is 
such a great value to some definite objective standard for the purpose of 
testing the effectiveness of one's efforts and checking theorizing, that 
there is no reason for discarding these standards; but the time has come 
to examine them critically, and to consider the whole subject from the 
aspect of the greater importance of preventive work. We have assumed 
perhaps too much the attitude of the old man who exclaimed "Sick? 
I don't hold much with this being sick. What I always say is — if you're 
sick, die — and prove it!" The child welfare movement has said in 

' Brcnneman, J. Boiled Versus Raw Milk. Jour. Amer. MeJ. Assn., \x (Feb. 22, 1913), 
57S. 

' Bergeim, O., Eward, J. M., Rehfuss, M. E., and Hawk, P. B. Gastric Response to 
Foods, II. /lmer.7oMr.P/o'iio/.,xlviii (May, 1919), 411. 



358 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS (AugUSt 

efTcct to children — ^if conditions for your well-being are not satisfactory, 
become malnourished so that even our crude tests cannot fail to detect 
it — and prove it. 

What is needed is a clearer conception of the meaning of optimum 
nutrition. For this it is necessary to go to the experimental laboratory 
where factors can be so controlled as to bring one factor at a time into 
sharp relief. So far, the clearest demonstration has been made for the 
efifect of selection of diet as opposed to all other factors making for well- 
being. It has been shown most spectacularly how great may be the 
differences in degrees of nutrition, all of which would be classified by 
the uncritical as satisfactory. It has long been generally known that by 
changing the composition of a food mi.xture a diet which will not allow 
growth can be changed to one which allows partial growth; this, to one 
which promotes growth to full adult size. But it is not so well known 
that, depending on finer adjustments in the diet, this full adult size holds 
a number of potentialities: normal reproduction, sub-normal reproduc- 
tion, or no reproduction at all; a long complete span of adult life or the 
shortening of this by any given degree; \igor maintained throughout 
this adult life or early coming of the characteristics of old age. 

In the complex frequently changing conditions that surround human 
growth, it may be easily comprehended that the effects of finer adjust- 
ments in diet would long remain undetected, and yet they are coming to 
be more and more understood and appreciated. It is reported* that the 
descendants of people of Iceland and certain Eskimo tribes, formerly pos- 
sessing teeth which remained in perfect condition well into advanced 
years in spite of utter lack of any prophylactic measures, have shown 
deterioration of teeth coincident with a changed dietary. Investigators 
have shown that defective teeth habitually occur as an accompaniment 
of certain types of experimental malnutrition. The Forsyth Dental 
Infirmary of Boston is reported to be now frankly shifting its emphasis 
from the commonly accepted prophylactic and corrective methods of 
modern dentistry to the more fundamentaUy preventive measures of 
proper nutrition. A recent article by MelJanby^ cites the Island of 
Lewis in the Hebrides where, in spite of indescribably bad sanitary con- 
ditions, a strikingly low death rate among babies is recorded. That this 
is dependent upon the food of the pregnant and nursing mother and is 

* Private communicationto writer by the Arctic explorer Stefansson. 
' MeUanby, E. .•\ccessor>' Food Factors (Vitamines) in the Feeding of Infants. Lancet, 
cicviii (April 17, 1920), 856. 



1920] , THE PRICE AND VALUE OF TEXTILES 359 

not merely hereditary- is indicated by the fact that the children of pre- 
school age in these homes, who do not fare so well as the babies dietetic- 
ally, show a comparatively high mortality and morbidity. This again 
decreases as the children become older and do not suffer so greatly from 
neglect. 

It would be painting too rosy a picture to suggest that all the factors 
upon which optimum nutrition rests are at present understood. How- 
ever, much knowledge is already at the disposal of those who wish to 
apply it. Enthusiasm for the good results which follow the corrective 
treatment of defective teeth must not obscure the fact that better teeth, 
not better repair of teeth, is the real ideal. Absence of actual disease 
and underweight among children should not be accepted as the highest 
standard for which it is worth while to strive. The child health worker, 
submerged in the struggle to correct widespread malnutrition, which 
undoubtedly exists, must never lose the vision of optimum nutrition as 
the ultimate goal of achievement. 



THE PRICE AND VALUE OF TEXTILES 

EVELYN M. HICKMANS 
Department of Household Science, University of Toronto 

The correct labeling of foodstuffs is insisted on by law, but at present 
misleading statements are constantly being made about the composition 
and value of textile goods, while names used for inferior goods suggest a 
more expensive material ; and the manufacturers have become so expert 
that the adulterations arc difficult to detect on cursory examination. 
Consequently the public are constantly paying prices for materials far 
beyond their value, and are being deceived as to the actual composition 
of the goods. The question becomes more important day by day, for 
the price of clothing continues to soar, and the wearing qualities are 
becoming more and more unsatisfactory. 

While there are firms whose word can be relied on, and who sell good 
standard materials at a reasonable price, their stock being chosen with 
the thought and care resulting from long experience and good judgment, 
there are many others whose materials are not labeled correctly or priced 



360 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

according to their value. Presumably in nearly every case the salesman 
offers the goods in good faith, and sells the article for what he believes 
it to be — having obtained his information from the manufacturer or his 
agent — or, not having received any definite information on the subject, 
he uses his own judgment and knowledge, and that knowledge proves 
to be inadequate or insufficient. The salesman fails to realize that he 
is misrepresenting his goods. In addition to that, the price is fixed 
according to what he thinks the fabric is, and not what it really is. 

An investigation was made lately into the composition and economic 
value of a small number of textiles, with the idea of finding out to what 
extent textile goods are incorrectly labeled, and if there is any relation 
between the price and the compo.sition of the materials. Forty samples 
were obtained from four firms in Ontario, and were analyzed. The pre- 
liminary investigation showed that 6 samples, or 15 per cent, were not 
what they were sold for. An "all wool" flannel contained about 50 
per cent cotton; a piece labeled "silk and linen" was over 80 per cent 
cotton, the rest being silk; another piece labeled "silk" was nearly 80 
per cent cotton, the rest being silk; another piece labeled" silk and linen" 
was silk and wool in nearly eciual proportions; another labeled "artificial 
silk" was cotton and wild silk; and one labeled "union silk and linen" 
proved to be more than half cotton, with the remainder artificial silk. 

Occasionally the labeling may be to the disadvantage of the vendor 
instead of the buyer, for one sample labeled "a small per cent of wool" 
contained 37 per cent. Sometimes the labeling is too indefinite. Thus 
a "flannel" should be wool unless described as a "cotton and wool flan- 
nel." Viyella flannel contains about 50 per cent cotton. 

The method of procedure was in every case to remove the finishing 
materials and loose coloring matters by boiling the fabric for 20 minutes 
in a 1 per cent solution of hydrochloric acid, then for the same length 
of time in a one-twenrieth per cent solution of sodium carbonate, and 
lastly in water. The percentage of dressing was calculated on the air- 
dry weights. Air-dr>' weights were taken in this investigation, as in 
making the mixes the weight would include the normal amount of mois- 
ture held by the fibres. Duplicates were made in every case and showed 
that the error due to differences in the amount of atmospheric moisture 
in the laboratory from day to day was negligible. 

For a cotton and wool mixture, the air-dr>' sample was boiled for fif- 
teen minutes in a 5 per cent solution of sodium hydrate, the solution 
being kept at constant strength; the cotton residue was then washed, 



1920] THE PRICE AXD VALUE OF TEXTILES 361 

restored to air-dry condition, and weighed. A correction of 5 per cent 
was added to the weight of the cotton residue, as the cotton itself suffers 
a slight loss on boiling with caustic soda (Matthews). 

For a cotton and silk mixture, and for a wool and silk mixture, the 
silk was dissolved by immersion in cold concentrated hydrochloric acid 
(about 40 per cent strength). The residue was washed, dried, and 
weighed. A correction of 0.5 per cent was made for loss of wool and 4 
per cent for loss of cotton (Matthews). 

The separation of cotton and wild silk was carried out by immersing 
the fabric in cold 10 per cent caustic soda solution for 12 to 18 hours, 
then washing and drying at 100°C. ; on rubbing, the wild silk fibres were 
disintegrated; the cotton residue was then allowed to become air-dry. 
Duplicates gave consistent results. Confirmation was also obtained 
by separating the warp and weft threads of cotton and wild silk, respec- 
tively, and weighing them. 

The separation of cotton and artificial silk was not carried out chem- 
ically, but the warp and weft threads of cotton and artificial silk, respec- 
tively, were separated by hand and weighed . The results of the analyses 
are shown in the accompanying table. 

Some interesting points were brought out by the analyses in respect 
to the price. In five all-wool materials the weights of wool obtainable 
for one dollar were calculated, and it was found that in one case (sample 
3) the apparently expensive article was the cheapest in the end, for in 
this fabric one and a half times as much wool was obtained for the money 
as in the cheaper fabric. In another case, however (sample 4), the ap- 
parently expensive fabric proved to be really expensive, as less wool was 
obtained for one dollar than in any other sample. Sample 1 was a very 
thin serge which would easily pull out of shape, but the other two serges 
were a much closer weave and would doubtless wear much better. 

Three union wool and cotton materials having approximately the same 
composirion gave three different weights for one dollar — so that the 
prices were not consistent — though the difi'ercnce may be accounted 
for to some extent by the difference in weave and finish. On the other 
hand, a number of satins, though of different price and width, worked out 
to be of about the same value. Again, two samples containing cotton 
and wild silk were compared and the one having more silk, which should 
be the more expensive fibre, was shown to be cheaper than the other 
sample. 



362 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

The white flannel (sample 6) gives better value than any of the other 
materials grouped with it. While sample 8 contains a higher percent- 
age of wool than does sample 7 the dilTerence is not sufficient to account 
for the different weights obtained for one dollar. Sample 9 was a printed 
voile so that the extra labor involved in printing probably balances the 
deficiency in weight compared with 7 and 8. 

In samples 10-21, there does not seem to be any comparison in the 
weights obtained for one dollar. Sample 10 has a high percentage of 
dressing, but is also made of poor quality shoddy which becomes thread 
bare quite easily, — and this probably accounts for the low price Sample 
14 contains less wool and more cotton than sample 13, but not enough 
to account for the difference in the weights obtained for one dollar, while 
13 pulls more easily than 14. Sample 16 gives nearly twice as much 
weight for one dollar as does 13, yet the qualities appear to be similar. 
Samples 11 and 15 give the same weight and appear to be about the 
same wearing quality as far as one can tell from sample. Samples 17 
and 18 are comparable and have about the same value. 

Samples 22, 23, and 26 are somewhat similar in composition, but^ 
while 22 is a plain weave, 23 is a poplin, which in all probability would 
not wear so well as 22, and only half the weight is obtained for one dollar 
in 23 and 26 as in number 22. Samples 28, 30, 31, and 32 are similar in 
value and composition; and sample 29, while having about the same com- 
position, contains a high percentage of dressing and, even allowing for 
the extra labor involved in producing the watered effect, is expensive 
compared with them. The low \alue of sample 27 is also accounted for 
to some extent, though not entire!}', by the printing. 

Samples 34 and 35 are very similar in composition and value, though 
34 has a much hea\'ier and stronger appearance than 35. Samples 33 
and 34 are very similar in quality as well as in all outward appearances. 

The low figure obtained in the last column for sample 36 is due to the 
narrow width, and this makes the material more expensive than the 
other two samples. 

A further point which needs to be made clear in the labeling of wool 
fabrics is whether the wool is "\irgin" wool or "recovered" wool. There 
is not sufficient "virgin" wool in the world to meet the demand for wool 
clothing, and if the shoddy is carefully prepared there is no reason why 
it should not be used for textiles; but since it is not new wool, and is not 
quite as strong or as even as new wool, owing to the treatment to which 
it has been subjected, and is not usually evenly dyed, it ought not to be 



1920] 



THE PRICE AND VALUE OF TEXTILES 



363 



sold at the same price as virgin wool — or even labeled "wool." It should 
be labeled "shoddy" or "recovered wool" and priced accordingly.'' This 
would materially lower the price of "woolen" fabrics. 

The need for the standardization of textiles is urgent, and the labels 
attached to the goods should show the nature and percentage of the fab- 
rics present, and the price should bear some relation to the composition. 
It would be to the benefit of the retailer and of the consumer, for the 
public would feel that they were getting what they were paying for, and 
the retailer would retain the confidence of the public. At the same time, 
it is important that the interest of the buyers should be aroused suf- 
ficiently to ensure a demand from the public for "pure textiles," that is, 
for textiles honestly labeled; and to this end it is hoped that the publica- 
tion of this investigation will assist. 

Results of analyses 



VENDOR S DESCRIPTION 



All wool serge 
Cashmere 
Serge 
Serge 

White flannel 
White flannel 

All wool flannel 

Viyella flannel 



CHARACTERISTICS 



Serge 
Cashmere 
Serge 
Serge 

White flannel 
White flannel 



Narrow striped 
flannel 



Plain blue viyclla 
flannel 



COMPOSITION 



per cent 
Dressing 1 . 5 
Wool 98. 5 

Dressing 6 . 3 
Wool 93.7 

Dressing 4 . 
Wool 96.0 

Dressing 4.8 
Wool 95.2 

Dressing 10.3 
Wool 89.7 

Dressing 6.8 
Wool 67.0 
Cotton 26.2 

Dressing 2 . 5 
Wool 47.8 
Cotton 49 . 7 

Dressing 2.9 
Wool 51.3 
Cotton 45 . 7 



a 


s 

< 

s 

8 

s 


a. u 

r 




inc^ei 




grams 


grams 


36 


SI. 49 


127 


127 


44 


1.25 


88 


lOS 


48 


2.00 


160 


213 


45 


2.50 


136 


170 


28 


1.20 


153 


119 


29i 


1.10 


160 


131 


30 


1.00 


113 


92 


30 


1.25 


115 


95 



grams 

85 



86 



68 



92 



76 



364 



THE JOURNAL OF HOUE ECONOMICS 
Result of analyses — Continued 



[August 



a 

5 X 


VEHDOt'S DuotirnoN 


duaACTzusnci 


coiEroemoN 


a 
I 

inckei 


I 
g 


S 

§: 
ti 


it 

troms 


13 








per etnl 




trams 


9 


Cotton and wool 
voile 


Pr.ntcd voile 


Dressing 3.6 
Wool 48.6 
Cotton 47.8 


29 


$0.65 


70 


57 


85 


10 


Can. cotton and 
shoddy 


Suiting*— plain 
weave 


Dressing 8.7 
Wool 37.0 
Cotton 54 3 


27 


0.50 


269 


201 


402 


11 


50% Can. wool 


Suiting* — plain 
weave 


Dressing 4 . 3 
Wool 32.6 
Cotton 63.1 


28 


0.6<3 


190 


148 


247 


12 


Can. khaki, small 
per cent wool 


Khaki* — plain 
weave 


Dressing 2.9 
Wool 36.8 
Cotton 60.3 


30 


0.60 


204 


170 


283 


13 


Wool and cotton 


Serge — twill 
weave 


Dressing 2.5 
Wool 43.0 
Cotton 54.5 


40 


1.50 


102 


114 


76 


14 


Wool and cotton 


Suiting* — gabar- 
dine 


Dressing 3.2 
Wool 35.8 
Cotton 61.0 


40 


1.50 


144 


160 


106 


15 


Cotton and wool 


Suiting* — plain 
weave 


Dressing 2.3 
Wool 39.7 
Cotton 61.0 


42 


1.00 


211 


246 


246 


16 


Woo! and cotton 


Serge* — twill 
weave 


Dressing 3.3 
Wool 38.9 
Cotton 57.8 


44 


1.25 


144 


176 


140 


17 


Wool and cotton 


Shepherd's plaid 


Dressing 2.9 
Wool 47.5 
Cotton 49.6 


50 


2.00 


164 


228 


114 


IS 


Wool and cotton 


Suiting* — twill 
weave 


Dressing 4.7 
Wool 49.2 
Cotton 46.0 


50 


1.95 


165 


229 


116 


19 


Serge 


Serge 


Dressing 5.7 
Wool 42.2 
Cotton 52 . 1 


36 


1.00 


127 


127 


127 



• Recovered wool, but of good quality. 



1920] THE PRICE AND VALUE OF TEXTILES 

Results of analyses — Continued 



365 





vendor's DESCIUPTION 


CaiAKACTERISTICS 


COMPOSmON 


g 


9 

< 
> 

s 
1 


r 


u 

it 


ll 








per cent 


inches 




trams 


trams 


trams 


20 


Union tweed 


Union tweed* 


Dressing 5.8 
Wool 45.3 
Cotton 48.9 


42 


$1.20 


255 


297 


248 


21 


Cheviot 


Cheviot 


Dressing 4.5 
Wool 51.3 
Cotton 44.2 


52 


3.00 


271 


391 


130 


22 


Cotton and silk 


Cotton and silk, 
plain weave 


Dressing 2 . 1 
Cotton 87.6 
Silk 10.3 


34 


0.50 


43 


41 


82 


23 


Cotton and silk 


Poplin — cotton 
and silk 


Dressing 1.6 
Cotton 89.8 
Silk 8.6 


35 


1.75 


80 


78 


44 


24 


Silk and linen 


Silk and cotton, 
watered effect 


Dressing 2.9 
Cotton 82.0 
Silk 5.1 


35 


2.50 


98 


96 


38 


25 


Cotton and silk 
mull 


Cotton and silk 
mull 


Dressing 1 . 6 
Cotton 83.4 
Silk 15.0 


35 


1.00 


37 


36 


36 


26 


Cotton and silk 
crepe 


Cotton and silk 
crepe 


Dressing 1.2 
Cotton 86.2 
Silk 12.6 


38J 


1.00 


42 


45 


45 


27 


Silk 


Printed silk 


Dressing 4.1 
Cotton 78.6 
Silk 17.3 


24 


2.50 


78 


52 


21 


28 


Satin 


Satin 


Dressing 4.8 
Cotton 74.9 
Silk 20.3 


24 


1.50t 


138 


92 


61 


29 


Moirf silk 


Watered effect 


Dressing 10.7 
Cotton 66.9 
Silk 22.4 


27 


1.75t 


79 


59 


34 


30 


Satin 


Satin 


Dressing 5.9 
Cotton 70.2 
Silk 23.9 


54 


2. sot 


101 


152 


61 



t Wholesale price. 



366 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 
Remits of onalyies— Concluded 



[August 



« 

a* 


VEHDOK'S DZtCtimOS 


CUAkACTtlMTICi 


courosmoN 


■ 
i 


9 

i 
3 

B 
S 


a 


(ramt 


t' 
¥ 








^er cent 


inch,, 




trami 


cramt 


31 


Satin 


Satin 


Dressing 7.3 
Cotton 68.0 
Silk 24.7 


54 


$2.50t 


101 


152 


60 


32 


Satin 


Satin 


Dressing 9.0 
Cotton 68.9 
Silk 22.1 


24 


1.25t 


106 


71 


57 


33 


Silk and linen 


Rep — plain weave 


Dressing 2.8 
Wool 50.9 
Silk 46.3 


3S 


2.50 


81 


85 


34 


34 


Sillc and wool 


Henrietta— twill 
weave 


Dressing 2 . 7 
Wool 70.3 
SUk 27.0 


39 


3.35 


82 


88 


26 


35 


Wool and silk 


Silk Eolicnne 


Dressing 2.0 
Wool 70.8 

Silk 27.2 


40 


2.50 


59 


65 


26 


36 


Cotton and silk 


Plain weave 
printed design 


Dressing 4.2 
Cotton 73.4 
Wildsilk22.4 


34 


1.00 


50 


48 


48 


37 


Cotton and silk 


Plain weave 
printed design 


Dressing 5 
Cotton 64.8 
Wildsilk30.2 


35 


1.00 


54 


53 


53 


38 


Silk and cotton 


Plain weave 
printed design 


Dressing 3.7 
Cotton 75.6 
Wildsilk20.7 


36 


1.00 


52 


52 


52 


39 


Artificial silk 


Poplin weave 


Dressing 3 . 7 
Cotton 66.0 
Wild silk 30.3 


33J 


1.75 


66 


61 


35 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

COOPERATIVE BUYEMG' 

HERSCHEL H. JONES 

Director, New York Office, Division of Foods and Markets, State Department of Farms and 

Markets 

As I look at the program of this conference and the subjects of this 
evening's session, I find myself wondering just what the person who 
put me down to discuss "Cooperative Buying" expected me to talk 
about. The term, "Cooperative Buying" suggests something in the 
nature of a cheaper system of buying goods, presumably based on the 
principle of concentration of purchasing power and volume of business. 
On the business of purchasing supplies, I am probably less quaUiied to 
speak than most of you. I prefer to assume, therefore, that your inter- 
est is primarily in the larger subject of cooperation, in the definite mean- 
ing of the word as applied to the cooperative movement originating with 
the Rochdale weavers in England. I would rather take my text from 
the keynote struck in the advance program of this conference, "the real 
work in any age is to produce, not better methods, but better men." 

Cooperative buying may be any kind of collective purchasing. Coop- 
erative spelled with a capital "C" is a movement whereby the people 
organize themselves in order to take into their own hands the adminis- 
tration of those socially necessary functions which are now administered 
by private interests for private benefit. It is a scheme of economic 
reorganization of production and distribution for the service of the peo- 
ple, rather than the profit of individuals. It was not first conceived by 
the Rochdale pioneers, but it was they who hit upon the right set of fun- 
damental principles that spelled success. 

Since that Httle store was started by those poor desperate weavers, 
seventy-five or eighty years ago, the cooperative movement has grown 
and spread over the entire world and is now making phenomenal progress 
in that last bulwark of individualism, our own country. The English 

' Presented at the Conference on Group Living, Lake I'lacid, X. Y., May, 1920. 

367 



368 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

cooperative societies now include one third of the population of England. 
They operate sixty factories, and own their own coal mines, their own 
herds of cattle, their own cofTee and tea plantations, fruit groves, and 
farms. One big wholesale agency distributes supplies of every kind to 
the local societies. 

In Belgium the working people have, by the savings in their coopera- 
tive stores, been aljle to build their own halls for meeting and recreation, 
their own libraries, and to conduct all sorts of educational health and 
recreational enterprises. 

All the world is just coming to recognize that the cooperative societies 
in Russia have been the one thing that has held together the economic 
life of the country- during the upheavals of the last two years. There 
are 50,000 cooperative societies in Russia with more than twenty million 
members, who with their families comprise one-half of the population. 
During the revolution and since, amidst a complete breakdown of ex- 
change finance and transport, almost the only purchasing and distrib- 
uting of goods has been through cooperative societies. England, with 
the approval of the Allied Powers, offered to open up business relations 
with the Russian cooperative societies although she was still unwilling 
to recognize the government itself. The All-Russian Union of Coop- 
erative Societies has been doing a large business with the United States 
for many months. It has the entire floor of an office building on Liberty 
Street in New York City and there are few offices in the city that have 
a greater appearance of efficiency and up-to-dateness. 

The scope of the Russian cooperative activities is unlimited. There 
apparently are few things they do not do, and do successfully. Distri- 
bution of clothing and food is only the beginning. Circulating Hbraries, 
moving picture shows, lecture bureaus, schools, and universities, tele- 
phone and telegraph lines, road building, all are carried on by them. 
Mr. Alexander Zelenko, Director of the Information Bureau of the Rus- 
sian Cooperative Societies in this country, with whom I had lunch re- 
cently, apologized for having to hurry away to a class at Columbia 
University. Out of curiosity, I inquired as to what course he was taking. 
"My wife and I are taking a course in camping," he repUed. I expressed 
a little surprise that they should have time for this diversion. "Oh, this 
is business," he said. " We have recreation camps in Russia, too. The 
cooperative societies nm them. We are learning everj-thing we can 
about camp management and ecjuipmcnt so that when we go back to 
Russia we will be able to improve our cooperative camps." 



1920] COOPERATIVE BUYING 369 

In France the government gave over to the cooperative societies during 
the war the distribution of coal, milk, and meat in certain areas. In 
many districts all business is done through the cooperative societies 
resulting in the closing up of all competitive business. 

In Italy, cooperation is also flourishing and as a reconstruction meas- 
ure the Italian Government appropriated a large sum of money to aid 
in the establishment of cooperative organizations. 

In the United States we have had for seventy-five years cooperative 
societies springing up in every part of the country, trying their experi- 
ments and going down in failure for want of access to accurate and ade- 
quate information. Violation of the principles of the Rochdale societies 
has invariably brought disaster, but some have survived their seasons 
of trouble and become permanent examples of strength to the hundreds 
of new societies that have come into being in the last live years. The 
latest available figures of a year ago show between 3000 and 4000 con- 
sumers cooperative societies in successful operation in this country. 
Several central wholesale agencies have been established in different 
parts of the United States, doing a total business of probably over 
$100,000,000 per annum. 

During the war people came to realize, as never before, the vicious- 
ness of the old economic system. In the last year, particularly, we have 
begun to see how absolutely we are at the mercy of the profiteering sys- 
tem of business. Our helplessness as indi\ddual small consumers in 
exercising any control over the conditions under which the necessities of 
life are supplied to us is parallel to the helplessness of the indi\idual work- 
ingman contending against a big corporation employer in an eflfort to 
secure better working conditions or better wages. The vision of our 
collective power as consumers through cooperative organization is be- 
ginning to dawn upon us. The greedy and despicable person who has 
been wont to wrap himself in the stars and stripes and interpret Ameri- 
canism as the right of every individual to exploit his fellowman to the 
full extent of his ability and freedom from conscience can no longer pull 
the wool over our eyes. The bare problem of living, of food, clothing, 
and shelter has sobered us, has made us turn to the future with a deter- 
mination to find better means of distributing the world's goods. 

The workingman is beginning to see that an increase of wages and a 
shortening of his hours does not solve the problem, because those things, 
he finds, simply add to the cost of commodities. They are passed on to 
the consumer and, inasmuch as the working people represent the major- 



370 TIIE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

ity of consumers, it is the workingman himself who must pay for his 
own increase in wages. 

The necessity and cfTectiveness of large scale organization, by the gov- 
ernment (luring the war, for relief of distress and for providing things 
essential to life and health contributed to this new perspective on the 
old system of economics. That a new system based on standards of 
use and service is coming, has been recognized Ijy such men as Mr. Frank 
Vanderlip. and Governor Lowden of Illinois, and people all over the 
country are turning to cooperation as the way out. 

On the Pacific Coast there is in California the Pacilic Cooperative 
League, 45 or 50 splendid societies, connected, many of them, with the 
Pacific Cooperative Wholesale Society with headquarters in San Fran- 
cisco. Up the Coast at Puget Sound there is a wonderful cooperative 
movement started by a strong laljor group. Around Seattle 40 or 50 
well organized cooperative societies operate through a cooperative whole- 
sale house in Seattle; societies occupied in all sorts of cooperative enter- 
prises, not only storekeeping, but banking, laundry work, fish canning, 
recreation, and restaurants. 

Coming cast across the country to the middle west farming section we 
find large numbers of societies that began among the agricultural popula- 
tion. Cooperation in this country has been promoted particularly 
among farmers for the purpose of marketing to better advantage and 
throwing off the yoke of the exploiting middleman. These cooperative 
selling agencies naturally turned to the purchasing of seed and fertilizer 
and then to groceries, clothing, hardware and dry goods, thus becoming 
consumers' as well as producers' organizations. 

In the Central states, around Illinois, are to be found a group of 
societies that have grown up among the mine workers, 70 or 80 of them 
operating through a wholesale society in East St. Louis. 

In Superior, Wis., is the wholesale house of another group of 40 or 50 
societies, mostly among Finnish people. 

Further cast, we find in Pittsburgh a cooperative wholesale surrounded 
by a group of 40 or 50 societies in Western Pennsylvania, Ohio, and West 
Virginia. 

And then in New England is another group of societies just organizing 
a wholesale with headquarters in Boston. 

In New York State and in New Jersey we have a considerable number 
of societies operating successful bakeries, stores, and restaurants. In 
New York City, cooperation has been particularly backward because of 



1920] COOPERATIVE BUYING 371 

the lack of stability and homogeneity of population. Our department 
has just completed, with the help of the Consumers League of New York 
City, a survey of cooperative enterprises in New York, which showed only 
about 20 really successful cooperative associations. One of these is the 
Cooperative Cafeteria started by Miss Mary Arnold on East 25th Street. 
Miss Arnold and a few friends opened the cafeteria themselves and then, 
as the business grew, put it on a cooperative basis so that the patrons 
themselves now own it. It has been so successful that they are planning 
to start others in different parts of the city. So complete is the system 
of accounting established by Miss Arnold that she is able to tell you 
the exact cost of the materials, labor, and overhead for each dish served. 
The scientific data that she is accumulating on the cost of serving food 
will be of great value to any institution. 

There is a cooperative Jewish restaurant on Second Avenue in the 
East Side and a Finnish cooperative restaurant over in Brooklyn. 
There are two cooperatively owned homes for working girls, one of which 
is Unity House organized and run by girl members of the shirtwaist makers 
union. 

An organization of Jewish women down on the East Side, called the 
Women's Consumers League, took up the question of the cost of livnng 
as applied to Kosher meat about two years ago. They went to the 
Food Administration with their complaints. They were courteously 
listened to, finally, by the Chairman of the Food Board himself, and in- 
spectors were sent out to investigate. But as the weeks went by they 
found themselves no better oft' than before and they came back to the 
Chairman, Mr. John Mitchell. After hearing their story of the way 
the butchers continued to exploit them, Mr. Mitchell sat back and told 
them of how in his youth the coal miners of Illinois were robbed by the 
company store and how the miners made up their minds to have their 
own stores and stop all profit making in the handling of their supplies. 
"Why don't you do the same thing," he asked them. They went away. 
Nobody at the Food Board heard of them again until three months later 
it was learned that they had opened a cooperative butcher shop. They 
started with 300 members. Now they have 1200 members and are oper- 
ating four branch stores. Their prices are from two to four cents per 
pound cheaper than prevailing retail prices and the sa%dngs are returned 
to member buyers at the end of the year, in proportion to the amount 
of their purchases. 



372 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

Among the most interesting cooperative undertakings in New York 
City are two cooperative apartment houses built and owned by Finnish 
working people in Brooklyn. One was completed before the war, and 
the other shortly after it began, so that material cost them less than now. 
The men, who are mostly carpenters and painters, built the houses and 
paid themselves wages. Each family put in S500 and loaned as much 
more as they could. The Finnish Cooperative Bank of Fitchburg, Mass., 
helped out with further loans. Only the most substantial of materials 
were used. Now these families are living in five and seven room apart- 
ments, light, airy, sanitary, attractive, with tile floors in the bath rooms, 
tile under the kitchen range, a little safe in the wall over the sideboard 
for the family savings, hardwood floors, intramural telephone, every- 
thing necessary' to comfort and health — all for S22 to $27 a month. 
Nothing like it could be found in Manhattan for less than $80 or $100. 
And this small sum includes paying ofT the principal in ten years, as well 
as operating expenses. Here is a lesson for those who seek to solve the 
housing problem. These same people with their neighbors are now 
building a $60,000 bakery and cooperative store in the same block. 

If not for the risk of too many details I would speak of the cooperative 
stores of the New York City Post OfTice employees, doing a business now 
of over a million dollars a year; of a cooperative knit goods factory where 
there are no labor troubles and no bonus system is needed to stimulate pro- 
duction; of three cooperative preparatory schools owned by the students 
themselves; of a wonderful cooperative summer resort purchased and oper- 
ated for its members by the dress and shirtwaist makers union.^ 

The story of the Purity Cooperative Bakery in Paterson, N. ]., 
is also full of interest. Then there is the Utica Cooperative Society 
in Utica, N. Y., which is now doing a weekly business of over $2300 
and has recently moved into a new store building of its own and is 
building a new up-to-date $21,000 baker>\ Fitchburg, Mass., is a 
center of cooperation — cooperative milk distribution, grocery- stores, dry 
goods stores, a bakery, a bank, a social center, an orchestra, a restaurant, 
a boarding house for unmarried people. Their solution of the milk 
problem is especially worthy of note. The milk supply of Fitchburg 
grew continually worse. The farmers got so little from the dealers that 
they could not afford to produce clean milk and many of them were 

' The State Department of Farms and -Markets is publishing an illustrated pamphlet, 
describing various cooperative organizations in New York City, which will be available for 
distribution in a short time. 



1920] COOPERATIVE BUYING 373 

killing off their herds. The cooperative society made a survey of the 
field. They made the farmers a proposition of eight and a quarter cents 
a quart, instead of the seven and three quarters cents paid by the dealers. 
They sent their trucks after the milk, brought it to their own pasteurizing 
station and delivered it to the members of the society, with a profit, at 
fifteen cents a quart, three cents less than the private dealers had 
been charging. They have now put practically all the private dealers 
out of business. 

In the adjacent town of Maynard, Mass., a cooperative society sold 
the same milk at thirteen cents a quart, which covered the whole cost, 
while those who did not belong to the society paid 18 cents and 20 cents 
to private milk dealers. 

New cooperative enterprises are being started in New York State nearly 
every week. The problem now is not to stimulate interest but to see 
that the new associations get organized on a sound basis and avoid the 
mistakes that lead to failure. The New York State Department of 
Farms and Markets has a Bureau of Cooperative Associations, with a 
small staff of organizers, whose function it is to assist consumers and pro- 
ducers cooperative associations in preparing and filing their articles of 
incorporation, in drafting their by-laws, in planning their activities 
and in solving their marketing and buying problems. 

What are the principles essential to cooperative success? First, that 
each individual who enters into combination with his fellows shall make a 
personal contribution of some kind, shall put in a certain minimum 
amount of his own money. Second, that, irrespective of the amount of 
capital put in, each member has one vote and no more, which differenti- 
ates cooperation from private business enterprises where capital votes, 
and not human beings. Third, funds invested in the cooperative en- 
terprise shall earn not more than a fixed minimum rate of interest, 
never higher than the legal interest rate. Fourth, any profits accruing 
to the cooperative organization shall either be used for the social good or 
returned to the members in proportion to their patronage. Fifth, 
business must be done for cash only, or its equivalent. Sixth, goods 
must be sold at approximately current market prices, not at cost, and 
adequate reserves maintained for emergencies, for expansion, and to 
cover depreciation. Seventh, education in the principles and aims of 
cooperation with the view of expansion into larger fields should always 
be carried on in connection with the enjo>inent of the immediate eco- 
nomic advantages. 



374 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

Cooperation is after all merely democracy and Christianity applied 
to production and distribution. Political democracy and personal 
Christianity have ceased to be primary issues in modern life. They must 
be applied to the economic field if they are to maintain their significance. 
The crying need, therefore, is education. We cannot have cooperation 
in the United States faster than we can create cooperators. Groups of 
people who get together and organize a society for the purpose of beat- 
ing the high cost of living, who do not study cooperation, who do not make 
themselves familiar with its purpose and its philosophy are really not 
running a cooperative society. Store keeping, or mere pooling of pur- 
chases, is not cooperation. The cooperative movement is a movement 
of social reorganization. It is revolutionary in its possibilities, but 
evolutionary and non-political in its process. 



A "SUBWAY" BAKERY IN VERDUN 

An underground bakery furnishes all the bread used by the refugee 
population in the ruined city of Verdun. No other building was suffi- 
ciently undamaged to house a bread baking establishment for the 
returning townspeople, so the great "subway"' ovens are daily turning 
out long, crisp loaves which compose the principal food of those toiling 
among the ruins. 

Several times each day the bread is brought to the mouth of the 
black cavern beneath the great walls, where lines of people await their 
rations. 

The bakeshop is a part of the famous underground city of Verdun, 
built after the war of 1871 and designed to house 30,000 persons during 
an attack. During the Great W^ar, thousands of soldiers and a few 
refugees lived in this subterranean abode while the city was under fire 
for nearly five years. The bakery was in operation during the whole 
time. 



1920] ONE woman's solution 375 

ONE WOMAN'S SOLUTION 

HESTER M. CONKLIN AND PAULINE D. PARTRIDGE 

On the edge of the desert of the Colorado not far from Signal Moun- 
tain, in the Imperial Valley, where the heat rises in great throbbing waves 
from the white sand and the only water to refresh the burning land is 
that which runs in the irrigation ditches, stands a tiny bungalow in a 
field of alfalfa. like a toy house on a great green mat. 

In this climate a woman rarely braves the summer months. By late 
April or early May the mother and her little family leave the Valley for 
the cooler land beyond the mountains or for the Pacific shore a hundred 
miles away. The men must stay, for the bulk of their work is done 
while the thermometer registers around the hundred mark, but, no mat- 
ter what the separation may mean in hardship or deprivation for them- 
selves, somehow it must be accomplished to keep the women and children 
well and happy. 

This little cottage, however, has a different story to tell. There is a 
woman in the doorway for one fleeting moment, the white muslin cur- 
tains seem to be fluttering in a breeze which is a stranger in this desert 
country, and the laughing voice of a child rings out in the still hot air. 
Within the cottage contentment reigns, and an almost unbeHevable cool- 
ness. There is a breeze, but where does it come from? Fans, fans 
everywhere, run by electricity, and reducing the temperature from twelve 
to twenty degrees. 

It is wash day and the electric washing machine is running. By this 
method Mrs. Hall does the family laundry work in a short two hours, 
with no additional heat and little extra labor. An electric mangle takes 
care of the larger flat pieces which are ready for it as soon as they have 
passed through the electric drier, and the electric iron completes the 
work. The range is also an electric one, efficient and exact. Electric 
lights are to be found wherever they are most convenient, one over the 
stove, and one near the sink. It is plain to be seen that Mrs. Hall has 
marked each spot where formerly she had wished that a light might be. 
An electric dish washer removes the drudgery of the three meals a day, 
and a vacuum cleaner run by the same method keeps the little bungalow 
sweet and clean. An electric refrigerator and ice cream freezer supply 
what could never otherwise be enjoyed in this climate, and a bread and 
cake mixer run by the same power make home baking as simple as home 
laundering. 



376 THE JOURNAL OF HOHi: ECONOMICS (AugUSt 

An enumeration of all the electrical appliances which are used by this 
one woman to enable her to remain in her home with her husband and 
children through the season when the X'alley is. save by a miracle, unin- 
habitable by women would be too long to be of interest, magical as these 
might seem. Suffice it to say that they have accomplished their pur- 
pose; that she has not been obliged to be separated from her husband for 
several years; that her children are well and happy, her home clean and 
well administered, her food delicious and her life far from monotonous. 

But where does the electricity come from, out in the desert, miles from 
anywhere? 

It is supplied by an electric plant installed in the house at a cost of 
about live hundred dollars and run by a low fuel motor. Details are 
unnecessary, for any electrical company can supply them. 

The cost of two women to assist in the work of this household, and 
this would be no more than adequate, would be at least ten dollars a 
piece per week, making a total of one thousand and forty dollars a year. 
Add to this the board of each at four dollars a week, a low estimate in 
these days of high costs, particularly in a region where food must be 
brought in under difficulty, and altogether j'ou have nearly fifteen hundred 
dollars a year, the price of domestic ser\ice. Perhaps if this were per- 
fect, it would not be too high a price to pay, but remember that only 
the most unskilled labor will betake itself to a place where the "mo\ies" 
have not yet penetrated, that there is almost constant change with per- 
iods when no assistance is available, and that under no circumstances 
can flesh and blood be asked to do the tasks easily accompHshed by 
machinery. Furthermore this fifteen hundred dollars must be paid out 
again next year for the same unsatisfactorj^ result, — not for an invest- 
ment, but for running expenses. Fifteen hundred dollars put into an 
electrical plant and equipment is as much of an investment as the home 
itself, and once invested, the upkeep is small in comparison with the 
resultant freedom and comfort. 

Are there not many homes, even in less isolated districts, that might 
find in this "obedient servant" at least a partial solution of their "labor 
problem?" 



EDITORIAL 

Vegetables Again — Their Fat-Soluble Vitamine. More and more 
the evidence is increasing as to the value of green vegetables in 
the diet. Quantitative work on the fat-soluble vitamine has recently 
shown this strikingly. Osborne and Mendel' have fed their rats diets 
rich in every respect except the fat-soluble vitamine and supplied the 
latter in small amounts of various dried vegetables, watching to see 
whether the small addition would permit good growth. As little as 0.1 
gram daily of dried spinach, alfalfa, clover, or timothy, was satisfactory; 
cabbage was not so good; tomato was excellent. One remarkable ob- 
servation was that 0. 1 gram butter fat was no better than the dried vege- 
tables and in some cases not so good. The latter may in fact contain 
more fat-soluble vitamine than the butter fat. It seems to be stable 
toward heat, at least in vegetables, and not extracted by water. It is 
interesting to realize that this dietary necessity may be obtained as 
freely from a serving of spinach, even with its high water content, as 
from a serving of butter. 

Osborne and Mendel fed not only the dried vegetables, but also the 
green oil extracted from them by ether. They obtained 3 per cent of 
this, for example, from dried spinach and 4.1 per cent from dried green 
peas. The minute amounts of 0.42 mgm. of this grass oil daily or 0.66 
mgm. spinach oil started growth again in rats that were decHning in 
weight because of lack of the fat-soluble vitamine in their diet, and 
cured cases of the characteristic eye disease . 

It seems now as if we were getting nearer to knowledge of what this 
fat-soluble \4tamine is. Methods of extracting it from the vegetable 
by solvents, like this ether extraction of Osborne and Mendel's, concen- 
trate it in a way favorable for further investigation. Steenbock and 
Boutwell° have tried various solvents on dried alfalfa, carrots, and maize. 
They found, of course, that they could obtain most vitamine from al- 
falfa and least from maize, since previous!}' experiments had shown 

' Osbome and IMondel, Jour. Biol. Cliem., 41, 549 (.\pril), 1920. 
» Steenbock and Boutvvell, Jour. Biol. Chem., 42, 131 (May), 1920. 

377 



378 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS (AugUSt 

maize to have only about onc-sevcntccnth as much as alfalfa. Water 
was the least and alcohol the most satisfactory solvent. 

A particularly striking part of their work is the fractionation of their 
alcohol extract of dried alfalfa. This green e.xtract, rich in \itamine, 
they saponified with alcoholic potash in the cold for many hours, thus 
decomposing the chlorophyll which is an ester, but not afTecting the yel- 
low coloring matters associated with the chlorophyll. Ether extraction 
after saponification gave an orange-red substance which successfully sup- 
plied the rats with vitamine. This, by different solvents, they further 
separated into two fractions each containing one of the two yellow col- 
oring matters, carotin and xanthophyll. The carotin fraction contained 
the fat-soluble vitamine in large amounts, the other little or none of it. 
This seems striking confirmation of Steenbock's earlier hypothesis that 
the vitamine is at least closely associated with the yellow carotin. 



THE QUESTION BOX 

Question: Will you please write me whether or not vinegar made from 
vinegar bees is at all injurious to health? People in this vicinity are 
making vinegar by the gallon and the pupils have brought some of the 
bees for me to use in making vinegar in our cookery classes and I wish 
to know more about them before encouraging their use. 

Answer: The product sold as "vinegar bees," "beer bees," "wine 
bees," "Australian bees," and under various other names is only a wild 
yeast of little value. Extravagant claims are made for the product, and 
a fancy price out of all proportion to its original cost or actual worth is 
asked. 

The primitive process for making "bees" was to expose to the air a 
mixture of corn meal and molasses until it became impregnanted with 
wild yeast and bacteria. This ferment was used in making a sort of 
vinegar or certain alcoholic solutions by adding it to a mixture of water 
and either brown sugar or molasses, which was then allowed to work or 
ferment. In the judgment of the specialists of the Department of 
Agriculture "bees" is not as well suited for fermentation as is the 
ordinary yeast cake which can be obtained from any grocer at much 
less than the fancy price asked for "vinegar bees," and they can not 
recommend "bees" at all for making vinegar. 

The Weekly News Letter of May 28, 1919, contains a full statement in 
regard to vinegar bees. 



1920] THE OPEN FORUil 379 

THE OPEN FORU.AI 

Tirana, Albania, March 5, 1920. 
My dear Mrs. Norton: 

A courier from Paris recently brought me half a dozen copies of the 
Journal, and as I have not had any copies for nearly a year, it made me 
feel as if I were once more in touch with civilization. Although I 
have been in the Balkans less than six months, I feel as if I had been 
away from ordinary life for a year or so. Albania is the most primitive 
of the Balkan States, and Tirana is the center of the old Turkish regime 
and nearly as oriental as Constantinople. So it is really a privilege to 
be here and see it all, and I have wondered if some of the e.xperiences I 
am having might not be interesting to the Journal readers. 

My duties here are to run the personnel mess and teach in the Red 
Cross school and the Albanian girls' school, and I am planning to take a 
class of mothers. I have also taken upon myself a class in English for 
several of my most promising boys. 

First, as to the mess. We average only about forty-five, but are 
rarely without guests — Italian and Albanian — and as this is Headquarters 
for Albania, all new personnel and all personnel going home or on leave 
or changing from one station to another must pass through here. So it 
makes a very shifting family. When I came the Colonel told me that I 
would have a fund at my disposal and that he wanted everything to be the 
best possible, as we must all eat three meals every day in the mess with 
no chance of going outside for variety. Then I went out and looked at 
the kitchen. When I first went in I thought there were at least a hun- 
dred people there. The Italians are occupying this part of Albania, and 
they had loaned soldiers to the Commission for all kinds of work. It was 
very good of them, but led to our feeding half the regiments on duty 
here. We had a head cook and assistant, two K. P.'s, two bakers, and 
four waiters, and a barber, besides three paid Albanians. Then there 
were several friends, and two pet chickens, three dogs, and a cat. And 
the kitchen was only about fifteen by fifteen. It took me a day or two to 
get them all placed. 

When the Commission first came in they had so much to do that they 
were glad to accept any offer of assistance. They found a merchant 
here who spoke English and who offered to do all their buying for them. 
They made a contract each month stating the prices to be paid and stipu- 
lating that these goods were not to be bought elsewhere. Goods were 



380 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

to be paid for every week. This was a very easy arrangement, as the 
assistant was at the kitchen door constantly, and every time the cook 
needed half a pound of anything he only had to tell Met. and it came in 
five minutes. When I first came, not knowing a word of Italian or 
Albanian, I let this system run for a couple of weeks until I got my bear- 
ings. But I used to take an interpreter into the bazaars and find out 
things, and it did not take me very long to see that we were being cheated 
at every hand. So at the end of the month I cancelled all the items on 
the contract except meat. I wanted to cancel the entire contract but 
was urged not to, as this particular merchant was a very powerful one 
in Tirana and could make us trouble. However, trouble came immedi- 
ately, but in a form I had not expected. All of my help objected, saying 
that Zef had given them a percentage of his earnings and they wanted 
that continued. It meant a readjustment of all the help. The head 
cook went back to his regiment and I found a Turk who has been splen- 
did. He speaks Turkish fluently, a very Httle Albanian, and a few 
words of ItaUan. But we understand each other now absolutely and 
hold long conversations. It is wonderful how much one can get across 
by the sign language. He has told me much about Constantinople. 
He worked there in the household of a Prince and went to Austria in 
his employ. Then he drifted away and became attached to the Prince 
who was sent to Albania by Germany to be king here. The prince's 
reign was short, and w^hen he left Osman staid and opened up a restau- 
rant in Durazzo. He was commandeered by the Austrians, and when they 
left he went into the employ of one of the Beys here in Tirana, and left 
him to come to us. He promises to stay with the Americans as long as 
I stay, and wants to come to America with me. Incidentally I should 
like to bring him, and if I can get his passport fijced up I shall. It would 
be easy for him to find work in America. He is a wonder as a cook, and 
here wc pay him five hundred lire a month, which amounts now to about 
twenty-five dollars. He works from seven in the morning to eight- 
thirty or nine at night. He was sick twice since I have had him, and I 
managed to get him to lie down for a couple of hours only, but he was so 
worried about us that he would come trotting back to see how things were. 
I am afraid that I shall be spoiled as to the help problem when I come 
back. We have to turn away people continually who would like to work 
for us, and the ones I kept have come to be loyal and good. I have 
found that it pays to take one of the native Albanians rather than an 
interpreter into the bazaars with me. Our interpreters are all boys who 



1920] THE OPEN FORUM 381 

had immigrated to the States and then came back when the war started, 
and they are pretty well spoiled as far as actual work is concerned. They 
are anxious to prove to the native Albanians that they are better, and also, 
I fancy, they want to impress on them what a rich country America is, 
so they think it is degrading to try to beat down prices. As the natives 
always ask a fabulous price for every article, knowing that no one will 
pay it and looking forward to the sport of the bidding,! was losing money 
with the interpreters. Now I think I am spoiled as far as buying is con- 
cerned. I dread to think of the breaks I shall make when I go to Field's, 
for instance, and price something and laugh at the clerk and turn my 
back on him and over my shoulder tell him my price. I think I shall 
be arrested. And yet that is our custom here. I go to the same people 
time after time, and, although they know me now, and know that I will 
never pay the price they ask, it is always the same farce, and they seem 
to enjoy it just as much. What is more, the Albanian boy I take keeps 
me at it. Even when I buy of his father, he makes him come dowTi in 
price. Often now I send him alone and he comes back with good things 
at fine prices. 

Everything is sold by weight or nimiber. We count the oranges, 
lemons, and eggs, and bunches of spinach or onions, but meats and other 
vegetables are weighed. The standard is the "oke" which is almost a 
kilo and a half, or about three pounds. 

Meat is the thing with which I have had the most trouble. The animal 
is killed and sold and the flesh eaten inside of an hour or so, and the 
dealers know nothing about the cutting of meat. In the meat niarket I 
gasped, for I could not see a single cut I could recognize. There were 
hundreds of little scraps, each weighing possibly a pound. Nothing is 
wasted in these markets. All the intestines are cleaned and sold and eaten 
per se. You see people going through the streets carrying a couple of yards 
of stomach and intestines. I found it was necessary to pick out my ani- 
mals and go away a few minutes while they were killed, and then come 
back and show what parts I wanted. (I never knew I could be a butcher, 
but I find it is not so hard.) In this way I could be reasonably sure of 
the health of the animals, as well as obtain the cuts I wished. I have to 
buy ahead and keep the meat a few days. I had a cabinet built, screened 
on all sides and placed where the winds strike it day and night, and all 
my meat goes there. Of course we have no ice, and I dread the advent 
of summer. Our days already are warm and balmy, all the fruit trees 
are in blossom and planting has been going on for a month. 



382 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOiaCS [AugUSt 

Tirana is so largely Mohammedan that pork is never sold and I must 
send to Durazzo for it, but we have now any number of baby lambs for 
sale. Lambs that would bring fancy prices in big markets go for the 
same price as old beef. The value of the lire has dropped so we pay more 
than we did, but it amounts to sixty-five to seventy cents an oke, or 
about twenty to twenty-five cents a pound. 

The chief foods of the better class Albanians arc poultry, eggs, rice, 
cakes, and very sweet puddings made of rice flour. For the poor it is 
only corn bread and goat cheese and the worst cuts of meat, a very few 
eggs, and very strong leeks, and all the foods are so seasoned with goat fat 
as to be uneatable. I went with two of the nurses on a mobile unit some 
time ago. We went up to a mountain village and lived at the home of 
the one Bey for three days. The first day we could cat; the second day 
we all felt pretty sick, but kept the food down; but the third day we 
unanimously went outside and lost each meal. We had to eat — all the 
family stood around and watched. It was a harem, of course, a father 
and three sons, each having two wives while one had three. Altogether 
there were about forty in the immediate family. And it seemed as if 
each wife had vied with the others to entertain us. We had to eat it all 
or cause strife. 

In my classes at the schools I use only such articles as are inexpensive 
and plentiful. The Italians have influenced the markets largely, bring- 
ing in quantities of delicious oranges and apples and good potatoes. 
We get dates, figs, and nuts from the south and east, and onions, cabbage, 
and leeks are locally grown. But the people have no idea of preparing 
them. Such simple dishes as baked apples, creamed onions or potatoes 
or a poached egg leave them aghast. And when I showed them an ome- 
let, a fruit salad (with apples, nuts, oranges, and dates) or a fruit whip, the 
children went into ecstasies. I am anxious to make some impression on 
their homes but- most of the children are from the very poor families, 
and the poorest homes here consist of one room which is a combination 
kitchen, dining room, bed room, chicken roost, and stable. Their cook- 
ing arrangements are simple — one iron pot on a smoky fire in the center 
of the room. ..Anything that must be cooked in an oven must be sent to 
a bakery. The bake ovens are huge brick affairs. The fires are built 
on the floor of the oven, and when it is well warmed up the coals are either 
pushed to one side or raked out altogether. And then in goes the bread 
belonging to the baker himself, several lots of corn bread belonging to 
various neighbors, a few dishes of eggs baking in goat fat, and perhaps 



1920] THE OPEN FORUM 383 

a turkey or chicken. The poultry is always boiled first (strange to ay, 
no one ever thought of making soup) and then the bird is well covered with 
goat fat and browned. The result is rather awful. There is so much 
for them to learn, that I sometimes wonder if the little bit I can give is 
worth the time and energy I put into it. But at any rate it will not hurt 
them. As for my class of boys in "American," it is wonderful how 
quickly these people learn a language. I have one man who speaks 
French, Italian, German, Greek, and Turkish besides Albanian. Most 
of the people have a working knowledge of German since the Austrian 
occupation, and they have picked up some Italian in this past year of 
their stay, so they have a good background. The native language is of 
Slavic origin, but there are many Latin touches. The numbers from 
one to ten are "ni, du, tre, quatre, pess, joust, stat, tete, non, thet." Of 
course they do not spell them so; their spelling is like Russian with all 
sorts of unexpected double consonants. I admit I cannot learn their 
language, but I can buy without an interpreter. 

The Commission here has accomplished a great deal in opening the 
eyes of the people. The very fact that we women come and go in com- 
pany with the men of the Commission or Italian oflicers or som.e of the 
educated Albanians, and go unveiled, means a lot. Many are the women 
here who have never left their houses since they were married, and to 
them we are unbelievable. Then, too, we must have clean quarters, 
and beds and tooth brushes and we sit down at a table to eat and use 
knives and forks and do a thousand and one things difTerently, and it is 
bound to make an impression. Of course the women in the better class 
families in the cities go to Italy and Constantinople, and they go unveiled 
when in other countries. But the majority are bound by iron-clad rules. 
And yet sometimes we wonder if we shall give them enough happiness 
from our civilization to compensate for their childUke satisfiedness in 
their present lives. As it is they have done all that is necessary when 
they marry at fifteen and bring all the children into the world they can 
and knit and make homespun and help their men. The women here — 
as in the other Balkan States — are the toilers. The men are warriors. 
The one day in the week when women come into their own is Thursday 
— market day. They come in week after week with the same things for 
sale, and sit all day and talk. It matters not whether they sell, in fact 
they seem loath to part with their articles. Having something for sale 
is their excuse for coming out. In our small American towns the women 
come out for the Sewing Societies at the Churches, and for the Literary 



384 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [AugUSt 

Societies. Here, since women have no souls or brains, they cannot go 
to church and have no call to learn to read or write, so they come to mar- 
ket. Civilization is pretty much the same the world over. 

This letter has become longer than I had expected, but when we 
start to write it is hard to know when to stop. I am enclosing several 
pictures. Two of them show market day scenes, one is of the street in 
front of our ofhce, showing two city officials in the foreground, and the 
other is one of my domestic science classes. The girls made their own 
uniforms and are very proud of themselves. 

Just a personal note at the end. Perhaps you remember me when I 
was dietitian at the Cook County Hospital in Chicago and you were 
dietitian for the County Institutions? I was ill and had to give up, 
and I went west and remained until I went into the army more than 
two years ago. I was at Riley until August and then came overseas and 
was in France until shortly after the Armistice when I was sent up into 
Germany. Then after more than nine months in Germany, I came here 
in October last year, so I really am fortunate as to my experiences. 
Sincerely yours, 

Nellie Halliday, 
American Red Cross Commission to Albania. 



The Constantinople Fund. .All summer schools are urged to take 
up a 25 cent per capita contribution from students in home economics 
for the Constantinople College Fund of the American Home Economics 
Association. This fund is being raised by a committee of which Miss 
Marlatt of the University of Wisconsin is chairman, and up to July 
first S4800 was in hand or pledged. The remaining sum of S12C0 can 
readilj' be raised if the summer schools of home economics will make 
the 25 cent contribution which was given in normal schools and col- 
leges during the year. The fund ^^^ll be used to establish a depart- 
ment of home economics in the Constantinople College for Girls which 
it is expected will serve as the foundation of a great school of practical 
arts for women of the Near East. 

B. R. Andrews, 
Chairman. International Committee. 



Vol. Xn, No. 9 SEPTEiCBER, 1920 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemaking, Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

Mrs. Alice P. Norton, Editor Ketxtkah E. Baldwin, Business Editor 

Editorial Board 
Mrs. Mary H. Abel C. F. Langwortuy Amy Daniels Rxtth Wheeler Violet Rylev 

Ex-Oj^cio Members— ^KSi\ E. Sweeny, President American Home Economics Association 
NoLA Treat, Chairman Institution Economics Section 
Minna Denton. Chairman Science Section 
Ola Powell, Chairman Extension Education Section 
Lillian Pkkk, Chairman Textile Section 

Collaborators — The Officers, Members of the Council, and Advisors 

CONTENTS 

Huw Can Our Work in Foods be Made More Vital to tke Health of the Child 

Lucy H. Giltell 385 

Racial and Other Differiintes in Dietary Customs . Velina Phillips and Laura Howell 396 

Chic.\go's Experiment Nancy G. Gladish 411 

.\ Project in Household Arts Helen Meslon 415 

Tkainino Home Economics Stide.nts for Journalism Marie Sellers 419 

Editorial . • 421 

Bi)(iKS AND LlTER.VTUIU: 425 



The Journal of Home Econouics is published monthly by the American Home Economics Association 
J2.00 A YEAR. FOREIGN J2.35. CANADIAN $2.20. SINGLE COPIES 25 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Check, Express Order or Postal Money Order, payable to the 
American Home Economics Association. Currency unless mailed in a registered letter is at the sender's risk. 

NOTICE. When payment is made by check no receipt will be sent unless requested. 

CHANGE IN ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent two weeks before the date of issue on which 
the change is to take effect. The subscriber's Old Address should be clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN HO.ME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION' 1211 Cathedral St., Baltimore, Md. 

Th« Jodknal o» Home Econouics is on sale at John Wanamaker's. Philadelphia; The Old Coiner Book Store, Boiton; 
A. C. McCIurg's, Chicago; Baltimore News Company, Baltimore; Woodward and I.othrop, Washington. 



'I F\ t; Of iinur i(o\(i\nr ■ 



THE KEYSTONE 
OF GOOD BAKING 

Your biscuits, rolls, ccma hwx oilier cl>iiiily 
brcacl-sluffs can be no bcltc-r lliiin tbe bilk- 
ing powder v.'iln wbich fbey are mtirle. 
Good bilking powder is tlie lefivcning agent 
that makes ibeni ligbl and digeslil)le. It is 
the keystone in the making of apijelizing, 
wholesome cake, biscuits, muffins, etc. 

Of course, you want only the best of bak- 
ing powder, and this is always assured 
when vou use 




ROYAL 

Baking Powder 



In writing advertisers, please mention Journal of Home Econoaiics 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. XII SEPTEMBER, 1920 No. 9 



HOW CAN OUR WOEK IN FOODS BE MADE MORE VITAL 
TO THE HEALTH OF THE CHILD?' 

LUCY H. GILLETT 
Director, Dietetic Bureau, League for Preventive Work, Boston 

Seven years ago as a member of the teaching profession I was feeling 
the need of closer application of subject matter, as taught in cookery 
classes, to the needs of the girls in their homes. This feeling had grown 
gradually during several years of teaching, first of children from 7 to 
16 years of age, then of students who in turn were preparing to teach. 

At first I had been gratified and perhaps satisfied, if Mary said she had 
made biscuits for supper, if Jane had made soup, or if Harriet had made 
gingerbread, but these isolated dishes did not cure nor prevent pale 
faces, they did not develop strength in the girls that were weak, they 
did not help those who were slow in their grade work to concentrate 
better in the class room. One glimpse after another into the home life 
of the girls only served to strengthen the impression that they were get 
ting much they could not apply and that this was crowding out much 
they needed to apply. What was it that they needed? 

This constant question stimulated a desire to embrace the first oppor- 
tunity for getting more defmite knowledge of the actual needs of the 
children. During the last sbc years I have had this opportunity, an op- 
portunity to study conditions in families where there arc children of school 
age, where there arc tubercular or malnourished children, and in almost 

' Read before the Annual Meeting of the Eastern .Vrts .Association, April, 1920. To be 
published in the Proceedings of the Eastern Arts Association. 

385 



386 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

every one of these families there is a food problem. While the foo<l is 
not always the only problem, it is usually a very important factor. This 
study has made me feel more strongly than ever the gulf that lies between 
the person sitting in an ofl'ice deciding what .300 children should need 
in ideal homes and what 300 children actually do need to help them in 
the homes in which they are now living. This paper is written, there- 
fore, not in a spirit of criticism of anything that is now being done, but 
rather to give to those who feel the need for, but are not able to get 
first hand, suggestions which will heli) them to adapt their work to 
present day needs. 

It is surprising to find underweight and malnourished children in all 
types of families, in the families of those who have plenty of money as 
well as in families of limited means. One cannot judge by the appear- 
ance of the face. The physician frequently finds that a plump rosy face 
is supported by a malnourished body. Figures from \arious cities show 
20 per cent of the children underweight, and underweight is not the 
only index to malnutrition. In many instances the children are in good 
condition until they reach the age of 12 or 14, when they begin to get 
thin and pale, and are more susceptible to disease than they should be. 
This seems reasonable to expect unless the amount of food eaten by these 
children increases to correspond to the rapidity of growth. 

In families where we have been asked to make suggestions concerning 
the food, mothers frequently tell us that children are getting on much 
better at school after the food has been adjusted. Do6s the work as 
taught ill the cookery class help the children to concentrate and to 
study better? Does the class room teacher note a mental improvement 
in any of the children who are taking cookery? 

Ever)' teacher of foods is doubtless emphasizing the relation of food 
to health but is it in the concrete or in the abstract? Do girls know that 
the enthusiasm and freshness of youth which every girl wants may be 
maintained or destroyed by her daily habits of eating? Rosy cheeks 
and good teeth are in a large measure dependent upon the food eaten. 

One of our Simmons students, a young woman with every appearance 
of being in good health, was doing some field work through the Bureau. 
She was trying to convince the mother of several thin and sickly looking 
children that they should not be allowed to drink cotTee. Finally the 
mother said "Do you drink coffee?" and the worker replied, "No, I 
never touch it." The next day the mother told another worker who 
was in tlie same family that she was not going to give her children coffee 



1920] FOOD MADE MORE VITAL TO HEALTH OF CHILD 387 

any more because she wanted them to have red cheeks like Miss B . 

In the first place then, are we living examples of what we want our 
pupils to be? 

Does each girl know whether she weighs more or less than she should 
so that she may regulate her diet accordingly, or whether her brothers 
and sisters are of average weight? If not, is there some physical defect 
that should be remedied so that the food may do its work? I do not 
wish to suggest that the cookery teacher is responsible for the physical 
condition of the children, for she has neither time nor training; neither 
is it her responsibility. This distinctly is the problem of the nurse, 
the physical director, or the doctor, but the relation of food to health 
and its selection with health in mind is our problem and we do not 
want to waste time trying to build up, with food, conditions that are 
due to other causes. The work in foods provides an excellent opportu- 
nity to work in cooperation with the nurse, the doctor, or the physical 
director. 

In social work we are meeting in individual homes the problems in 
nutrition that teachers are meeting in group work. In one of our nutri- 
tion classes where we were trying to bring 12 or 15 underweight and 
malnourished girls into good condition by teaching and persuading them 
to follow proper food and other health habits, the girls said, "We have 
had this in school but it never occurred to us that it had anything to do 
with our being underweight." 

My second thought is to ask whether it is not possible to make the 
work more personal? 

In teaching a cosmopolitan group such as we get in our pubUc schools 
we must decide which things are fundamental and at the same time most 
useful. We want such information as may be taken home, not only the 
kind that is taken home in a cup, but the kind that will help to lay a 
good foundation for the health and strength of the whole family, the 
kind that may be used in the future as well as the present, the kind 
that applies to all nationalities. 

Has any teacher ever said that there is not time to teach everything? 
There is a big question in my mind as to whether there is time in the 
grades to teach girls that foods are composed of proteins, fats, carbo- 
hydrates, mineral elements, vitamines, and water. These are surely 
fundamental facts, but are they the facts that can be used to best 
advantage? 



388 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

I know from experience that children delight in learning these names, 
that they can tell in a superficial way the value of each in the body; 
but if you were to go into the homes of any one of these women today, 
to see what application she really makes of this information when a 
real test arises, I wonder whether you would not be forced to agree 
with me that in the face of so many needs the time might be spent to 
better advantage? That the information gained does not justify the 
time and energ>' spent upon it? I would like to raise the question 
whether the technical composition of foods could not be left to the high 
schools where enough time may be put upon it to give a working knowl- 
edge and where the children are old enough to apply the knowledge 
intelligently? Some may say that so few go to high school they want 
them to get it in the grades, but if we cannot give them everything in the 
grades, and if this crowds out things that are more important, are we 
not forced to eliminate something and put the emphasis on the question 
of value? We cannot teach chemistry or advanced mathematics in 
the grades. \\Tiy food composition? 

Perhaps a teacher feels that she is simplifying the teaching of food 
values and evading the diflficulty by classifying foods into muscle build- 
ers, energy foods, body regulators. In this it seems to me we are easing 
our conscience and fooling ourselves without educating the children. 
In the first place, are we really giving the correct impression by referring 
to a certain class of foods, presumably high protein foods, as muscle build- 
ers? Is the protein of any value in the growth of the muscles if the 
mineral elements and the vitamines are not also present? Are they 
not Just as important in the growth of the muscles as the protein? Chil- 
dren soon assign values of their own, too, in spite of our cautions. They 
reason like this: If protein builds good strong muscles, then is not that 
the thing to be desired? And if the time comes when they have to econ- 
omize, will they not think the protein the thing above all else to include 
because of muscles and strength? In 100 dietary studies in which ac- 
curate records were kept and the food values of the diet were calculated, 
in no instance was the protein deficient if the energy was adequate, but 
the things that were deficient, the thing that was holding boys and girls 
back in their development, the thing that was causing pale faces and 
weary bodies, was the lack of the mineral elements and the foods con- 
taining vitamines. We find malnutrition more frequently in children 
whose diets are rich in protein and low in vegetables than where protein 
foods are deficient and vegetables abundant. WTiy overemphasize pro- 
tein foods by referring to them incorrectly as exclusively muscle builders? 



1920] FOOD M/VDE MORE VITAL TO HEALTH OF CHILD 389 

What are the important things of common interest? Are they not 
the teaching of the relation of food to health, the planning of meals for 
a family to include the desired foods necessary for health of each mem- 
ber, a consideration of economy and marjieting, and the preparation of 
the foods that illustrate these points? 

We all need milk, vegetables, fruit, grain products, and fats, nor- 
mally. (Abnormal cases are problems for a physician.) Meat, fish, sugar 
are optional. Why not think in terms of types of foods, and teach the 
planning of meals to provide these foods, the different foods to use at 
different seasons of the year, the amounts of each type of food needed 
by each member of the family for a day and then for a week to 
make up the weekly grocery order, the purchasing of these foods, the 
relative economy of each food as compared with other foods in that type? 

This will help to solve the difficulty that often arises because of nation- 
ality. People of all nationalities, of all ages, and of all occupations 
need these same types of foods and from each tjpe may be selected 
foods preferred by each. Take vegetables, for example. When the 
question of nationality arises one could find from the surrounding mar- 
kets and shops or from the members of the class the names of the vege- 
tables used by the nationalities involved and these might be brought 
up in class. Vegetables of a similar nature might be classed together 
and rules for the cooking of each class given. This would help all nation- 
alities and so called Americanization would be spread thereby. Each 
nationality could learn from the other and neither would feel that it 
was having something forced upon him. By showing respect for and 
acknowledging the good that is in all diets there is sure to be an inter- 
change of food habits which will be one of the ways of amalgamating 
the people living in one country. 

Remembering that it is usually easier in the fall to begin with foods in 
season we will suppose, for example, that vegetables are to be discussed 
in September. Do these lessons with vegetables leave with the girl a 
firm conviction that the vegetables are necessary for health even to the 
point of making her learn to like them? Is every girl in the class so 
convinced of the value of vegetables that she is going to have at least 
two vegetables in her diet every day? Does she know at what age 
children should begin to eat vegetables and that it is very important 
that they be persuaded to learn to like them early in life (for they will 
be exceptional children if they do like them at first)? Does she know 
how to prepare vegetables for children under five? Does she know which 



390 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOiacs [September 

ones they should not eat? Does she know which vegetables to buy to 
get the most food value for her money if she has to economize? Does 
she know that vegetables are very valuable in overcoming constipation 
and that it may be corrected or prevented by proper food? Does she 
realize its seriousness if allowed to continue? Does she know that green 
and leafy vegetables have different f[ualilies from the root vegetables 
and that she should have some green and leafy vegetable at least two or 
three times a week and as much oflener as possible? Does she know 
which the green and leafy vegetables are? ^\^len leafy vegetables are 
scarce in January, February, and March, will she know what to do to 
safeguard her health, provided the cost of the green vegetables prohibits 
their use? 

I have been trying to imagine myself back in the school room to see 
whether it would be possible to emphasize and to prepare the leafy vege- 
tables that are most abundant in the fall, then later in the winter to 
emphasize cabbage and those leafy vegetables to be found all winter; 
and in the spring, beet greens and dandelions or other spring greens. 
Dried vegetables do not answer the same purpose; fruit is scarce and 
expensive at the same season as vegetables, and why should the pupils 
not know that canned vegetables are better than none at all. They 
should at least be taught to use more milk when green vegetables are 
unobtainable. It may be easy to teach vegetables in the fall but the 
real test for the girl comes when they are scarce and this is when she 
needs most help. Children are not going to remember from September 
to February what to do. They must learn by doing. 

If every teacher realized how many children are really suffering from 
malnutrition because of the lack of vegetables, none could rest until 
she had planned to help her girls to get vegetables in their diets, not 
six months a year, but twelve months. 

The importance of milk is usually strongly emphasized. Children 
know that it is essential for growth. They usually know of what milk 
is composed but how many girls increase the amount they have been 
drinking because of this knowledge? WTiich is more important, provided 
there is not time for both, to know the food composition of milk, or to 
learn to use at least 2 cups or more a day? Are we content and elated 
when he hear that one or two children or perhaps 75 per cent of the 
children are drinking more milk? The milk that 19 children drink will 
not help the twendetli who perhaps needs it most. 



1920] FOOD MADE MORE VITAL TO HEALTH OF CHILD 391 

Do they know that milk is a food whether taken as a beverage or in 
cooked form? That when we say a quart a day, some of this will prob- 
ably be taken in food prepared for the family. We frequently hear in- 
telligent, well-informed people express surprise in learning that the food 
value of milk for adults is the same whether cooked or uncooked. But 
do they know how to get even a full quart into the diet in cooked form 
if necessary? Do they know how much milk a child one year old should 
have? 5 years old? 10 years old? And it is especially important to 
know how much mUk is required by the whole family. (Perhaps the 
teacher in the arithmetic class might be persuaded to introduce a prob- 
lem or two at this time.) Do they knov/ that milk helps to strengthen 
the teeth and to steady the nerves? And, that no other food can supply 
the same qualities in such large amounts? 

Since we find tea and coffee used when mUk should be given, could 
not the subject of tea and coffee be introduced at this point to good 
advantage? This raises the question at once as to whether tea or coffee 
should be made in class. If we are emphasizing the health side of 
food why denounce the coffee and then proceed to teach children to make 
it? I imagine that children are almost universally told of its ill-effects. 
Some have said "it would be made anyway; then why not have it well 
made?" If this excuse still exists could not the preparation be left 
imtil the end of the year when a tray for the invalid may be prepared? 
We consider the tea and coffee habit one of the worst food sins of chil- 
dren. We find the tea and coffee habit so well established that children 
often go to school with only tea or coffee and bread for breakfast. The 
teacher of cookery in the grades can do much in overcoming this tea 
and coffee habit. A class of 25 underweight boys were running a race 
to see who would get into good physical condition first through observing 
good habits. A father of one of the boys who was 18 pounds under- 
weight came to visit the class one day. He said, "My boy used to 
drink coffee three times a day but he came home from the class one day 
and he say teacher say coffee keep him from growing. He say, 'Mother, 
I don't want no more coffee,' and because Antonio stop, his brothers 
and sisters stop," and the man continued: "Why don't more of the 
teachers tell the boys what to do? They do it when you say so but 
they no mind us." 

Doubtless every teacher does say much. How many say it with such 
force and personal application that children give up tea and coffee? 
These things have to be repeated many times, and said in a tone that 



392 THE JOURNAL OF HOMK ECONOMICS (September 

carries conviction, for learning good food habits is like learning a multi- 
plication table. It frequently takes us from 6 to 8 or even more visits 
to persuade children to give up cofTee entirely. 

In a similar way the subjects of fruits, grain products, fats, sugars, 
eggs, meat, fish, and other foods might be discussed. There is the value 
of grain products for "vigor and vim" as Cho Cho says, the relative 
importance of the cereals with and without the outside coating removed, 
the various ways in which the cereals may be introduced into the diet 
other than as a breakfast cereal as in soups, breads, and puddings. Many 
children will eat the cereal for supper but prefer bread and milk for break- 
fast. The need of considerable fat in the diet should be emphasized in 
the light of more recent experiments, but the evil of fried foods cannot 
be too strongly urged. The harmfulness of sugar taken in concentrated 
form except at the end of a meal, with appropriate ways of introducing 
it in dilute form, and the undesirability of meat more than once a day, 
especially for children, and then only in small amounts, are only suggestive 
of the many tilings the children need to practice daily if they are to be 
healthy. 

After each girl realizes the importance of the various tj^pes of food in 
the diet she has a problem at home which we are apt to overlook. This 
is the planning of the family meals and introducing into those meals 
tlie food she and the rest of the children need. 

The average income does not warrant many extras and father says 
he wants something more substantial than creamed soups, cereals, pud- 
dings, and other things that are good for children. One dish must fre- 
quently provide the requirements for the mother, father, and all the 
children ranging in age from 1 to 16 years. The new dishes must be 
built into those the family already has. And the girl has to meet this 
problem. Do the children leave the class thinking that dessert is an 
essential part of a meal or do they know that it is possible to plan a one- 
dish meal? Many of them cannot afTord two courses and it will not 
harm those who can afford three or four, or even more, to know how 
to plan one-dish meals. Anyone who has tried to stretch a S20 or even 
a $30 income to cover the cost of food, rent, light, fuel, clothes, and 
other expenses for a family of five is doubtless aware that in such fam- 
ilies the dessert is a Sunday affair. 

Many, many children, many more than we realize, are going to school 
without breakfast or with only a very meagre one. This may be because 
the mother is indisposed, it may be due to lack of child discipline, but a 



1920] FOOD MADE MORE VITAL TO HEALTH OF CHILD 393 

proper breakfast cannot be too strongly emphasized. A proper break- 
fast need not be expensive. It may consist of bread and milk. If the 
grade teacher knew that her work would be easier if children had eaten 
a good breakfast it might be that she would add her word to that of the 
special teacher, thus reaching boys as well as girls. We find that when 
the same idea is urged by two or, better still, by three people interested 
in the same family, but from different points of view the results are much 
more satisfactory. 

Then there is the luncheon purchased away from home either at noontime 
or recess. Oh! those pickles, ice cream cones, sodas, and doughnuts! 
How few girls realize what they are doing for themselves when they 
choose this kind of a luncheon! 

What kind of suppers do the children have? Are they simple but 
nourishing? Do they have meat at night and if so are they restless in 
sleep? We often find children who are restless at night but sleep calmly 
and peacefully when the meat is taken out of their evening meal. They 
have better control of their nerves the next day, do better work at 
school, are less irritable. 

Not only is it necessary to give suggestions concerning the meals, 
but it is especially necessary to urge regiilarity of meals with no eating 
between meals, eating slowly, and only light exercise after meals. 

One word with regard to insisting on maximum standards before the 
whole class. One day a thin faced little boy asked how much he should 
weigh. When told, he looked down at the toe of a shoe that was far 
from new and said sadly, "Then I'm 20 pounds underweight? " He was 
asked if he drank milk and he said, "No, mother used to get a quart, but 
the baby had to have all of that." "Don't you suppose you could have 
just two glasses a day?" he was asked. And he said with tears in his 
eyes, "The baby died last week and perhaps I could have some now." 
The friend to whom this boy was talking did not say, "You tell your 
mother you must have a quart a day" because she surmised the prob- 
lem in that home. We all, I am sure, would hesitate to urge the maxi- 
mum when we know the conditions are unfavorable. It is far more 
considerate to urge the minimum in all cases and advise more if possible. 

After the planning of the meals, the grocery order ordinarily follows 
in natural sequence. If meals are properly planned, however, would 
not the grocery order partially precede the meal planning? Many 
women buy from day to day. Too many buy from meal to meal. This 
is poor economy and leads to improperly planned meals. In planning 



394 TTTE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

meals should not the amount of milk, vegetables, grain products, fruit, 
and fats that arc required by the family, in other words a partial grocery 
order, be the basis— then the combining of these foods into meals with 
the addition of such amounts of meat, eggs, and fish as the family may 
need or may desire or can afTord? Would it not be better to plan market 
orders a week in advance? In one family where we were aske<l to help, 
the man said he earned enough money to live comfortably but they 
never seemed to have enough to last through the week. They lived 
well for three or four days, then had bread and tea. The children were 
thin, always sick, out of school, and low in their class. The field worker 
planned with the woman the amount of milk per day, the amount of 
bread per day, the amount of other grain products, vegetables, fruit, 
fat, sugar, and meat, needed for the week. As many of these things as 
possible were purchased in advance. At the end of the first week of 
our work with this family, the woman said they had lived as well the 
last day as the first and all because she had planned ahead. In a short 
time the children were strong and sturdy and the mother said they were get- 
ting on so much better at school. She says now she does not know how 
she ever lived before. This is only one of many instances where plan- 
ning ahead has not only saved the health of the children by stretching 
the purchasing power of the dollar, but it has frequently saved a family 
from debt. 

When it comes to the question of economy, it makes some difference 
in the amount of growing material received in return for 10 cents whether 
that 10 cents is spent for oatmeal or for cornflakes. When shown a 
chart representing the relative value of these foods in terms of dollars 
and cents, many a mother has been convinced of relative economy 
when hours of talking have failed. These charts are just as convincing 
with children. We frequently hear girls say, "Oh yes, we learned how 
to do that at school, but we cannot afford to make it." Of course, an 
egg or milk adds nourishment, or perhaps muffins are made when eggs 
are cheap, but Mary would like to have them when eggs are 10 cents 
apiece, and she does not know how to use this muffin recipe without 
eggs. Three eggs a week for the baby is all that many families can af- 
ford when eggs are $1.20 a dozen. If the recipes are to be tried in homes 
where they are most needed, then we must suggest how they may be 
adapted to suit varying incomes, using cheaper fats where possible and 
even water for milk. I wonder how many realize what a minimum 
grocer}' order looks Uke? 



1920] FOOD MADE MORE VITAL TO HEALTH OF CHILD 395 

Are our directions such as will necessitate the fewest possible utensils 
and those the least expensive? Some of our cities have school kitchens 
beautifully equipped. It is a joy to the girls to work in them, but, 
even though the equipment is complete and a good example of what a 
well furnished kitchen should be, would it not be possible to play a 
game occasionally to see with how few utensils we can get along? To 
see which ones are dispensable, to devise substitutes for double boilers, 
for egg beaters, for rolling pins? It would be interesting to many, no 
doubt, to know what can be done when teaching a woman in her own 
kitchen where the entire outfit consists of two saucepans, perhaps only 
one, a knife, a spoon, and a tea cup. Will the girls who come from 
homes like this know how to apply what they learn, unless they are 
taught how to do things with as few utensils as possible? 

There is need for urging cleanliness and sanitation; especially neces- 
sary is it to urge separate plates, cups, spoons, knives, and forks. 
There is need also for emphasizing cleanliness in the care of food, such as 
putting food under cover away from dust and flies, for emphasizing 
danger in handling bread and similar foods. 

The material that might be given is almost endless. No teacher feels 
there is time to give it all. Perhaps the things suggested here are given 
in the majority of our schools today, perhaps they seem impracticable, 
perhaps this seems like a large program, but if you have visions of some 
lessons that seem essential being crowded out, go down into the crowded 
district of the city and with a real desire to help the people, study the 
faces of the children and then decide what seems most important. The 
need of economy, like malnutrition, is not confined to the crowded dis- 
tricts. Visit the homes of some of the children in a well to do district 
and talk with the mothers until you get their confidence; see their 
problems and learn, not alone of their struggles, but of the way in which 
they adapt themselves to circumstances. 

Girls are going to learn to do the things that appeal to them, so that 
if there is not time to teach all the cooking processes in class we may 
be sure they will find out later, but they may get the message of health 
when it is too late. When they have homes and children of their own 
and are asked whether they learned at school things that were most 
important, what should the answer be? 



396 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOincs (September 

RACIAL AND OTHER DIFFERENCES IN DIETARY CUSTOMS' 

VELMA PHILLIPS AND LAURA HOWELL 
FOREWORD 

Within the last few years has come an increasing realization of the need 
for more detailed information concerning actual dietary customs, especially 
among families of various racial groups. The nutrition worker who possesses 
such information can save much time, and many home economics teachers 
would find it valuable in making their courses really function in improving 
homemaking standards. The educational value of the school lunch is being 
stressed constantly and here also a knowledge of frequent dietary defects 
should go far in guiding the selection of points of emphasis especially needed 
in the various sections of the city where foreign colonies exist. 

Dietary habits are remarkably fixed habits. Hence the data presented in 
this report, although collected several years ago in a limited number of sections 
in New York, provides a picture of dietary adequacy probably very similar 
to what would be found in a study conducted today in many other places than 
New York. The figures of cost are no longer accurate because of the increased 
food prices since 1918, but otherwise the study seems as valuable now as when 
first prepared and represents a real contribution to our limited stock of infor- 
mation about dietary customs. 

Dr. Allinson was a woman with a remarkable gift for conducting investi- 
gations with thoroughness and skill and with a constructive vision which made 
the findings of widespread and permanent value. This is well illustrated by 
this report and the various reports from the Woman's Educational and In- 
dustrial Union, which were prepared under her direction, and by her work 
with the Woman's Division of the U. S. Department of Labor which was so 
sadly interrupted by her death in December, 1918. 

Because of Dr. Allinson's close supervision of this investigation this report 
would seem especially valuable as an illustration of desirable methods to be 
followed in conducting social research in connection with home economics 
and presenting effectively the results of the investigation. For this reason, 
as well as because of the subject matter which it contains, I feel that the 
report should prove of great value and influence and am glad that it is to be 
available for use by publication. 

Emma A. Winslow. 

• Prepared under the direction of May Allinson, 1917-lS. Preface by Miss Allinson, 
Foreword by Emma Winslow. 



1920] DITFERENCES IN DIETARY CUSTOMS 397 



How to get enough to eat in these times of high prices is a serious question 
for us all. But it was and still is especially serious for the foreign family with 
the very small income. Not only have prices jumped up beyond reach of many 
of these families, but their customary foods were suddenly cut off by the war. 
Roman cheese and oHve oil have been considered a necessity in the poorest 
of Italian families. When Roman cheese rose to SI. 25 a pound and olive oil 
to $4.00 a gallon, it was still considered an essential and the investigator found 
in the poorest homes Italians suffering from cold and lack of food, buying 1 
and 2 ounces of Roman cheese and small quantities of olive oil. 

Almost two-thirds of these 105 families whose diet was studied for one 
week were receiving less than the standard fuel requirement. Cereals, the 
cheapest fuel foods, may be within their reach but they have not learned how 
to prepare them nor how to eat them. When wheat, fats, and other foods to 
which they are accustomed are beyond their reach, there is serious danger of 
increasing the malnutrition characteristic of low income families. 

Classes and demonstrations were conducted all over the city in 1917-1918 
to teach the use and value of these new foods. But the foreign housewife is 
difficult to reach in public gatherings. Her place is still in the home and she 
must be reached there, to a large extent, by visiting housekeepers, dietitians, 
nurses, settlement workers, or others who have access to the home. 

This investigation was undertaken by a group of eight students enrolled in 
the course listed as Practical Arts 301-2 in Teachers College, Columbia Uni- 
versity, in the fall of 1917 under the direction of the writer. The field work 
began in October, 1917 and closed in February, 1918. Two months, March 
and April, were spent in tabulating and digesting the material gathered. The 
report was written by two of the students, Velma Phillips and Laura Howell. 

The investigation was carried on in constant consultation and in cooperation 
with the Office of Home Economics of the United States Department of Agri- 
culture which provided the schedules used. The completed schedules were 
turned into the Office of Home Economics for use in its dietary surv'ey work. 

New York is facing another winter when reconstruction conditions, many 
feel, will be even more difficult than the war conditions, and it seems worth 
while to bring to the attention of its people how the unusual conditions affect 
many of its inhabitants. These 105 families tj'pify many families in their 
neighborhoods and show the need for constructive and practical education 
in the choice and use of foods from the standpoint of food value, cost, and 
satisfaction of the appetite. 

With this motive in mind this study of the food used by 105 low income 
families, most of whom were foreign, is presented. 

May Allinson. 

October, 1918. 



398 TUE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOUics (September 

INTEODUCTION 

How the family \vith the low income and especially the foreign family 
in the congested sections of New York City adjusted themselves to meet 
unusual conditions brought about by the war and reconstruction is the 
question suggesting this study. Three distinct groups or nationalities, 
Italian, Hebrew, and Negro, constitute the main basis for discussion. 
Of the 105 families from which complete weekly records were secured, 
44 were Italian averaging 7 in a family, 22 Hebrew averaging 6 in a 
family, and 27 Negro averaging 4 in a family. Twelve more constituted 
a miscellaneous group of which seven were Irish, one Russian Pole, one 
Scotch, one German- American , and two German-Italian. 

These 105 families comprised 562 indi\iduals or 5.3 persons per family. 
Three-fifths (61 per cent) of the 562 persons were under eighteen years 
of age and almost one-half (47 per cent) were under fourteen years of 
age. 

The investigators got in touch with these groups through families 
who were known to the Association for Improving the Condition of the 
Poor, and the settlements of the city. The majority of the families 
studied had no connection with these philanthropic organizations. 

METHOD OF STUDY 

An accurate record of the food consumed by each family for one week, 
the food value, the cost, and waste was the goal of the investigators. 
Scales, weighing accurately to the ounce, were taken to each family 
whose weekly diet was studied. An inventor^' of the food on hand was 
made by the investigator at the beginning and the end of the week. 
This was much less arduous than might be supposed. The investigator 
frequently found absolutely no food in the house at the beginning or 
at the end of the study. The mother explained that they had to buy 
for each meal, otherwise the children would eat it all up and there would 
be no food or money to buy more for meal times. Each day the food 
bought by the family was recorded. Specially prepared sheets were 
provided on which the weight, price, and waste were noted. 

The waste, too, occupied a very small place in most of these records. 
Crumbs, peelings, and scraps were frequently utilized in many of these 
families. Some women were indignant at the suggestion that there 
should be any waste to weigh. 

The investigator visited the family through the week as often as seemed 
necessary, in some cases every day. In other famihes, where some 



1920] DIFFERENCES IN DIETARY CUSTOMS 399 

member seemed intelligent and reliable, only two or three visits a week 
were made. In the foreign families, especially in the Italian families, 
the children took much of the responsibility for the weighing and record- 
ing and were found to be very faithful. 

NEIGHBORHOODS 

The neighborhoods varied with the nationality. The Italians and 
Hebrews visited lived for the most part on the congested lower east 
side, centering about Spring and Grand Streets, respectively. Their 
apartments were of the poorest type averaging from two to five rooms 
for large families of from seven to nine individuals. The Negroes who 
were visited lived on the upper side centering about 130th Street, where 
the housing conditions were comparatively good. Though the average 
Negro family was small, it occupied from two to eight rooms. Lodgers 
were much more common among the Negroes than among either the 
Italians or Hebrews. 

LIVING CONDITIONS 

Weekly incomes. The weekly incomes of these families showed a 
wide range. The Negroes ranked first in the income scale with the 
highest minimum of $8.14 and the highest maximum of $50.00 with the 
highest average of $26.49 for the week. The Hebrews had the lowest 
incomes with the maximum weekly income of $22.00 and an average of 
$16.05. 

Occupations. Each nationality group had its characteristic occupa- 
tion. The majority of the Italian men were out of door day laborers 
doing the heavy work on the docks, near which they lived, and work on 
the streets and construction; though tailors, barbers, and others were 
represented. The men in the Hebrew families were garment workers 
for the most part and the Negroes were waiters and cooks. The miscel- 
laneous group of 12 families of different nationalities were engaged in 
an equally miscellaneous group of unskilled occupations. 

In many homes the women supplemented the family income. The 
Italian women did sweat shop work at home such as finishing clothing 
and making paper flowers. The Negro women frequently worked out- 
side the home in domestic service. The Jewish mothers seldom worked 
outside the home if there were other wage earners. The women in the 
miscellaneous group were often employed as janitresses. The larger 



400 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

incomes observed in some of the groups were often due to the earnings 
of the older children. 

Rents. The rents varied with the section of the city. The propor- 
tion of income spent for rent varied slightly as is shown in table 1. 

Considering the 105 families as a group. 17.5 per cent of the income 
was spent for rent. The rent paid by the average Hebrew family corre- 
sponds with the average of the whole group (17.4 per cent). The 
average Negro family spent a larger proportion (20 per cent) of its income 
for rent and the average Italian family, a smaller proportion (16.4 per 
cent). 

Although the average of the table seems typical of the amount esti- 
mated as a fair allowance for the rent in the country in general, the 
extremes are striking. One-third of the families spent between 10 and 
15 per cent of their income for rent and eight families spent less than 
10 per cent. The Italian families whose incomes were increased above 
the average of their race because of the earnings of the children still 
remain in the crowded districts where rents are low. The Negroes, on 
the other hand, spend a somewhat higher percentage for rent than either 
the Italians or the Hebrews. This may be because they take their 
standards from their employers or, as is true in many places, because 
they are exploited. 

Shopping. The majority of the families studied bought the food 
for one meal or at most for one day at a time and usually at the nearest 
store. Only those of the higher income groups shopped outside their 
own immediate neighborhood. The Hebrews and ItaUans bought in 
smaller quantities than the Negroes or the miscellaneous group. Two 
ounces of butter, one ounce of cofifee, or four ounces of sugar were cus- 
tomary purchases. In the majority of these homes little if any food 
was ever kept on hand. The Negroes on the other hand often had an 
imposing array of food in the house and habitually secured larger quan- 
tities than the foreign families. 

This study was made during the first year the United States entered 
the war and the food regulations were just going into effect. The field 
work began in October, 1917 and continued until Februarj', 1918. Dur- 
ing this time the first sugar shortage was at its height and the price at 
times and in some sections was exorbitant. This may account in some 
degree for the low percentage of sugar used and the comparatively high 
price paid. During December, January, and February the usual coal 
shortage and extreme cold made the need of high caloric value of food 
more imperative than under ordinary conditions. 



1920] DrFFERENCES IN DIETARY CUSTOMS 401 

Dietaries. In order to give some idea of the kind and selection of 
food used by the average family scheduled the following examples are 
given as typical for each race. 





Jewish menus 




Breakfast 

Coffee with milk and sugar 

Rolls Sweet butter 




Breakfast 

Coffee with milk and sugar 

Soft cooked egg 

Rolls 


Lunch 




Lunch 


Rye bread 
Smoked salmon 




Rye bread 
Kippered herring 


Supper 

Soup with vegetables and meat 

Potatoes 

Rye bread 


Italian menus 


Supper 

Lima beans and barley 

Potatoes 

Rye bread 


Breakfast 

Coffee with milk and sugar 

Bread 




Breakfast 

Coffee with milk and sugar 

Bread 


Lunch 




Lunch 


— Vegetables with small pieces of 

and pork 

Italian bread 


onion 


Navy beans with tomato paste 
Italian bread 


Supper 

Spaghetti with tomato paste 

Italian bread 




Supper 

Codfish cooked in oil 

Potatoes 

Italian bread 


Breakfast 

Pork chops 

Com cakes 

Coffee Condensed milk 


Negro menus 


Breakfast 

Sausage 

Hot cakes 

Coffee, cream and sugar 


Lunch 




Lunch 


Meat broth with rice 
Bread and butter 




Fried hominy 
Syrup Tea 


Dinner 




Dinner 


Lamb chops 

Boiled hominy 

Hot biscuit 

Tea 




Fried ham 
Sweet potatoes 

Canned com 
Bread and butter 



402 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



(September 



TABLE 1 
Weekly income and percentage for rent 





mn<B»or 

rAHIUU 


WCEKLY IMCOlOt 


iraVT lot RZVT 




MioiiDuin 


Maximum 


Avctace 






44 

27 
22 
12 


S8.00 
8.14 
7.20 
5.30 


$44.00 
50.00 
22.00 
41.00 


$19.45 
26.49 
16.05 
21.90 


16.4 




20. 0* 




17.4* 


Miscellaneous 


14.6 



* Two Negro families and one Hebrew family omitted because rent was paid for in 
janitor service. 

TABLE 2 
Distribution of families uhen arranged according to cost of food per man per day 



COST PEX tIAN rES DAY 



Less than 15)!. . . 
From 15)i to 20(i 
From 20)i to 25)S 
From 25)i to 30(i 
From 30)i to 35^ 
From 35); to 40(S 
From 40)! to 45^ 
From 45)! to 50)! 
From 50(! to 60)! 
60^ and more . . . 

Total 



NDMBEi or TAiurms viTB srzciTizo con m dat 



Italian Jewish Negro 



27 



TABLE 3 
Cost per 3000 calories 



COST ptR 3000 calories 



Less than 30^... 
From 30)! to 35)! 
From 35(i to 40)! 
From 40)! to 45)! 
From 45)! to 50)! 
From 50)! to 60^ 
From 60)! to 70^ 
70)! amd more. . , 

Total 



Jewish 



105 



1920] 



DIFFERENCES IN DIETARY CUSTOMS 



403 



Daily cost of food. Thirty-eight of the families studied spent between 
$.30 and $.40 per man per day for food, with only 24 below $0.30, a sum 
higher than Sherman and Gillett^ found in the famiUes studied in 1914- 
1915 where the most frequent amount was from $0.25 to $0.35. One- 
fifth of the famiUes in the present study spent more than $0.45, and one- 
fourth less than $0.30 per man per day for food. If these families had 
been having a diet providing 3000 calories per man per day, three- 
fourths instead of one-half of the families would have spent $0.30 to 
$0.45 per man per day for food. 

Approximately 50 per cent of the ItaUan and Negro families spent 
below $0.40 per man per day for food, as shown in chart 1. Referring 
to Table 7 we see that 50 per cent of the Italians were receiving adequate 
fuel from their food while the diet of 81 per cent of the Negroes was defici- 
ent in energy. In view of the fact that the ItaUan people use so much 
macaroni and bread, this point calls our attention to the fact that grain 
products give the greatest fuel value for the money. In any food crisis 
conservation of cereals must not be urged among the working classes of 

Chari I Sfiowjng percentage oC Camiliaa paying spec-iried 
amounts per day for Food 



20 io 



»iii 



Italian 
Jewish 



fmill|:S:::::i::::n:nH:H:!!::::::::::::: 



iniiscfllaMouj 
Cinsh) 



Key 

■i Loss ihan ZO<i 

IZZ] QO<f and less than 40f 

FFffR 4CK and less than 60<) 

f^^TH 60* and mori? 



' Sherman and Gillett, Adequacy and Economy of Some City Dietaries. 



404 THE JOURNAL OF HOUE ECONOMICS (September 

limited means. It would seem as though conservation in this line should 
rest with those who can afford to pay a higher price per 1(XX) calories. 

Proportion of income spent for food. I-orty-fjve per cent of the income 
of this total group of families was spent for food. The variations for 
nationality are wide, ranging from 27 per cent for the Negroes to 60 
per cent for the Italians. The small per cent spent by the Negroes 
may be accounted for by the smaller family and the larger income which 
was characteristic of the Negro families \'isited. 

One hundred families were divided by nationality and listed in order 
of increasing amount spent for food per man per day. Each list was 
di\idcd in two equal groups and the average amount spent for food and 
the average food value for each group was taken for consideration. It 
might be expected that in the "higher cost" groups the standard allow- 
ance' per man per day for an adequate diet, consisting of three thousand 
calories, 75 grams of protein, 0.67 gram of calcium, 0.015 gram of 
iron, 1.32 grams of phosphorus would be realized.* But it is interesting 
to note that the Italian diet provided the standard requirement on 
SO. 38 per man per day while the diets of the other three groups ranged 
from $0.46 to $0.52 before providing an adequate food value. 

The striking deficiency in calories in the lower group is most important, 
for the deficiencies in the minerals might have been overcome had the 
calories been high enough. While sources of fat and protein are properly 
considered the most expensive food, there was no deficiencj' in either, 
showing that greater emphasis needed to be placed on increasing the 
purchase of cereals and vegetables. Adequate nourishment due to racial 
food habits seemed to be lost sight of through economic pressure. 

Dr. Sherman has suggested, in the interest of proper nourishment, 
that no more food money should be spent for meat than for milk, and 
as much for fruit and vegetables as for meat. In order to get adequate 
energy on a limited amount of money one-fourth may well go for cereals. 
In comparison with this suggestion the following data from a study of 
the diet of our 105 families is given. (Table 5.) 

The distribution of money in Italian families came nearer this sug- 
gested division of relative amounts to be paid for each type of food than 
in any of the other nationalities. The Negro diet is conspicuous for the 
small food value received in return for the money spent for food. 

* See Sherman's Chemistry of Food and Xutrition. 

'"We are now using 1.32 as agreeing better with all the evidence now available. This 
means that few dietaries are regarded as deficient in phosphorus." — H. C. Sherman. 



1920] 



DIFFERENCES IN DIETARY CUSTOMS 



405 



Miss Gillett has formulated, in connection with the standard for the 
division for food money and the relative weight of food for expenditures, 
an estimate that for each pound of meat purchased there should be 3 
pounds of milk and cheese, 3| pounds of vegetables and fruits, 4 pounds 
of grain products, and § pound of fats, sugar, etc. 

TABLE 4 
Cost and food value of one hundred dietaries; average by nationality in two groups 





mniBERor 

FAMILIES 


AVEIAGE COST AND POOD VALUE PER IIAN PEE DAV OP EACB OEOUP 




Cost 


Calorics 


Protein 


Fat 


Calcium 


Iron 


Phos- 
phorus 


Italian I. 

Negro I2 

Jewish < 2 

Miscellaneous.. . < , 


20 
21 

12 
13 

11 
11 

6 
6 


$0.28 
.46 

.31 
.51 

.22 
.38 

.36 
.52 


2516 
3091 

2268 
3340 

2028 
2943 

2808 
3506 


grams 

96.8 
110.2 

73.5 
102.3 

75.0 
114.7 

95.6 
123.0 


Sromz 
89.4 
100.1 

91.9 
139.3 

40.5 
76.9 

89.1 
116.0 


trams 
0.70 
0.63 

0.48 
0.74 

0.39 
0.69 

0.74 
1.05 


trams 

0.013 
0.019 

0.010 
0.017 

0.012 
0.019 

0.012 
0.018 


trams 

1.31 
1.37 

1.00 
1.69 

1.14 
1.73 

1.46 
1.81 


Total |J 


49 
51 


$0.30 
.49 


2504 
3232 


90.3 
117.4 


84.6 
114.2 


0.61 
0.74 


0.012 
0.020 


1.30 
1.67 



Note: The families were listed in order of increasing amount spent for food per man 
per day. The list was divided into two equal groups and the average amount spent and 
the average amount of food value for each group taken for consideration. 

Three Italian and two Negro families were omitted because they were not representa- 
tive. (Calories consumed by the Italians seemed too high for possible consumption while 
those of the Negro families seemed too low for tj-pical regular habit.) 



TABLE 5 
Proportions spent for different foods compared -dilh standard suggested 



NATIONALITY 



Amounts suggested 

Italians 

Negroes 

Hebrews 

Miscellaneous 

Total (average) . . 



$0.20 
.23 
.40 
.36 
.35 



$0.31 



SO. 20 
.14 
.13 
.11 
.15 



$0.12 



FEniT ANI 
VEGETA- 
BLES 



$0.20 
.15 
.13 

.12 
.15 



so. 14 



$0.25 
.28 
.18 
.29 
.20 



$0.26 



$0.15 
.20 
.15 
.12 
.15 



$0.17 



$1.00 
1.00 
1.00 
1.00 
1.00 



31.00 



406 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOBdCS 



[September 



TADLE 6 
Percentage expenditure for each type of food, average of 105 families 



TVPE OP FOOD 



Meats and 6sh 

Eggs 

Milk and cream 

Cheese 

Fat 

Grain ptxxlucts 

Sugar 

Fruits and vegetables . 

Nuts 

Miscellaneous 



rncEMTAGE or con 



Negro Jew Italian Irub ToUl 



36.0 
4.0 

12.0 
0.7 
7.0 

18.5 
3 

13.2 
0.6 
5.0 



31.0 
SO 

10.0 
0.5 
7.0 

29.0 
2.7 

12.0 
0.0 
2.0 



19.5 
3.6 

10.3 
3.4 
9.7 

28.6 
3.0 

14.9 
0.4 
6.6 



Total 100.0100.0 100.0100.0 100.0 100.0100.0100.0100.0100.0 



29.0 
5.4 

15.0 
0.4 
6.3 

20.3 
4 1 

14.5 

5.0 



26.0 
5.3 

11.0 
1.0 
8.3 

25.4 
3.0 

14.3 
0.3 
5.4 



rzKczHTACc or WZICIT 



Negro Jew Italian Iriib Total 



17.4 
1.3 

20.7 
0.3 
2.5 

30.1 
4.3 

21.0 
0.2 
2.2 



12.2 
1.2 

17.1 
0.2 
1.3 

36.0 
2.0 

28.0 
0.0 
2.0 



9.3 
1.4 

20.2 
0.5 
2.9 

37.1 
3.6 

23.1 
0.1 
1.8 



11.1 
2 

27.0 
0.1 
1.0 

21.8 
4.0 

29.0 
0.0 
4.0 



11.7 
1.2 

20.1 
0.3 
2.3 

34.5 
3.0 

24.6 
0.1 
2.1 



From table 6, it can be readily seen that the families did not take 
advantage of the high food value of nuts and cheese. The relatively 
high expenditures for cheese by the Italians was due to the expensive 
cheese purchased and not to the amount. 



FOOD VALUE OF DIETS BY NATIONALITY 

The tables showing the food analysis are grouped so far as possible 
on bases of nationality to see if racial variations in food habits in any 
way account for difference in food values received. The diet of the 
Italians is characterized by the large amount of wheat products, green 
vegetables, and olive oil; the diet of the Negroes is characterized by pork 
products and milled grains such as rice and hominy; while the Hebrews 
adhere more or less strictly to the dietary laws. The miscellaneous 
group had an Americanized diet which was characterized by its high 
cost rather than by any one kind of food or by its food value. 

In the whole group of 105 families, 61 per cent were receiving less than 
3000 calories per man per day as shown in table 7. Among the Itahans 
and miscellaneous families, 50 per cent received sufficient calories while 
only 30 per cent of the Hebrews and 19 per cent of the Negroes received 
the standard amount. It is particularly interesting to note that while 
the Negroes had a much greater quantity of food and spent more for it 
than the foreign families, they received the least nourishment from their 
food. 



1920] 



DIFFERENCES IN DIETARY CUSTOMS 



407 



The supply of protein was more frequently adequate. Only 17 per 
cent of the families received below the standard allowance of 75 grams 
of protein, per man per day, as shown in table 8. But in the protein 
supply as in fuel value a wide variation was discovered among the fami- 
lies of different nationalities. Thirty-seven per cent of the Negro 
families received less than the standard amount and only 9 per cent of 
the ItaUans. Referring to table 6, we note that the expenditure of the 
Negroes and Itahans for sugar and fat differed little, but there is a wide 
difference between their expenditure for meat and cereals. The Italians 
used large amounts of wheat products high in protein while the Negroes 
used grain products low in protein. Although the Negro expenditure 
for meat was high, the meat used was high priced, largely pork with 
a large amount of fat. 

TABLE 7 
LHslribution of families according to 'alorits received {,3000 per man per day taken as a standard) 





NDIIBER OF FAMILIES RECEHTNG SPECmED KUUBES 
OF CALORIES 




Italian 


Negro 


Jewish 


Miscella- 


Total 


Less than 1500 


1 

2 
10 
9 
8 
6 
2 
3 
3 


2 
3 
7 
7 

2 
4 
2 


3 

7 
8 
3 
1 


2 
4 
2 
3 

1 


3 


From 1500 to 2000 


8 


From 2000 to 2500 


26 


From 2500 It 3000 


28 


From 3000 to 3500 


15 


From 3500 to 4000 


14 


From 4000 to 4500 '. 


4 


From 4500 to 5000 


4 




3 






Total families 


44 


27 


22 


12 


105 






Per cent below 3000 calories 


50 


81 


70 


50 


61 



In table 12, compiled from 84 of the families arranged according to 
nationality, is shown the per cent of the families with diets deficient. 
The food factor most frequently adequate was the protein, only 17 
per cent of the 84 families sho\ving a deficiencj'. The fats might perhaps 
be considered as meeting the requirements since it is possible to sub- 
stitute carbohydrate for the most part and it was found that no family 
had less than 13 grams per man per day. 

All the mineral elements showed a high percentage of deficiency, 
50 per cent of the families being below standard in calcium, phosphorus 



408 



THE JOURNAL OF JIOWE ECONOBnCS 



(September 



and iron. If part of the protein needed had been obtained from milk, 
the protein standard would still have been met and the calcium require- 
ment more nearly provided. 

Analyzing the families by nationality it was found that 24 out of 31 
Italian families had less than 3000 calories per man per day and that 
13 of these families were paying more than $0.35 per man per day. Of 
the 7 properly nourished families in this group one paid more than $0.50 
per man per day and six more than $0.60. 



Distribution of families according to the amount of protein raeived (75 grams per man per day 
taken as a standard) 



HUUBER or CRAHS OF PSOTZIN PU 


NtnOIEt 


or rAMUiES KKCzrvuto spcanzo innuu or 
CRAUS or raOTEIM 




lulian 


JewUh 


Negro 


MiKclU- 
ncoua 


ToUl 




4 
15 
11 
5 
9 


4 

7 
7 
4 


1 
9 
11 

5 

1 


4 

5 
2 

1 


1 




17 




37 


From 100 grams to 125 


28 


From 125 grams to 150 


12 




10 








44 


22 


27 


12 


105 






Per cent of families receiving be- 


9 


18 


37 





17 







Distribution of families according to the amount of calcium received {0.67 grams per man per 
day taken as a standard) 



NOUBEE OF GRAUS OF CALCTUU 


NUUBER OF rXHIUES RECEIVmG SPECUCED AUOUNT 

OF cALcnni 




Italian 


Jewish 


Negro 


MisccIIa- 


Total 




7 
13 
10 
7 
4 
3 


8 
7 
5 
2 


12 
5 
5 
3 
1 
1 


3 
1 
4 
1 
1 
2 


30 




26 


From 0.67 gram to 0.S4 


24 


From 0.84 gram to 1.00 


13 


From 1.00 gram to 1.25 


6 


1.25 grams and more 


6 




44 


22 


27 


12 


105 






Per cent of families receiving be- 


4S 


68 


63 


33 


53 







1920] 



DIFFERENCES IN DIETARY CUSTOMS 



409 



Distribution of families according to the amount of iron received. {15 mgm. per man per day 
taken as a standard) 



HnxicBAus or ntos pee uan pee day 



Less than 10 mgm 

From 10 ragm. to 15 

From IS mgm. to 20 

20 mgm. and more 

Total families 

Per cent of families receiving be- 
low IS mgm 



4S 



46 



Distribution of families according to the amount of phosphorus received {1.32 grams per man per 
day taken as a standard) 



GEAUS or PHOSPHOEOS PEE MAN PEE DAY 


mniBEE 


or FAMILIES EECErVTOG SPECIPIED HCMBEE OF 
CEAMS OF PBOSPHOKDS 




Italian 


Jewish 


Negro 


Miscella- 
neous 


Total 




6 

7 

23 

8 


3 
6 
9 

4 


8 
8 
9 

2 


3 
6 
3 


17 




24 




47 




17 








44 


22 


27 


12 


105 






Per cent of families receiving be- 


30 


40 


60 


2S 


39 







Among the Hebrews it was found that the three families whose diet 
was adequate in food value in all respects spent between $0.40 and $0.50 
per man per day. 

Among the 27 Negro families 11 were paying more than $0.35 for 
food per man per day, but of these only 4 families were meeting the food 
requirements in all respects. These paid from $0.43 to $0.68 per man 
per day. 

The miscellaneous group had diets providing practically all of the 
requirements and spent $0.31 to $0.56 per man per day. 

The number of families who spent liberally above the minimum cost 
per man per day ($0.35) showed the smallest percentage of deficiencies. 



410 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[September 



From this it might be concluded that, had the amount of money been 
sufficient, there would have been much less danger of deficiencies in 
diet. 

TADLE 12 

Percentage of S-t families with diets deficient in one or more food values, arranged according to 

ruitionalily 



miu or rooD vajloz 


RANDAtDS 


PEtCZHTAGE Or TAMTLOa KECZIVIHO LESS THAH TBI 
STANDAED ALLOWANCE Or rOOD VALUE 




luluin 


JcwUh 


Negro 


MuccUa- 


ToUl 


Calories 


3000 


.SO 


81.0 
18.1 
50.0 
72.2 
50.0 


70.0 
37.0 
0.0 
59.2 
62.9 


50.0 
0.0 
0.0 
25.0 
25.0 


61.8 




75.0 grams 9.0 
56.0 grams 22.7 
67 grams .SI 7 


17.1 


Fat 


20.0 




57 3 




0.015 grams 
1.32 grams 


48 


51 2 












Cost per man per day 


$0.35 












Per cent paying less than $0.35 per man 


14 


50.0 


25.0 


0.0 


42.8 







All previous studies whether of American or foreign families have 
shown a deficiency in mineral content. This study shows an even greater 
deficiency in the supply of phosphorus and iron than was discovered in 
a pre\aous study in New York. Shennan and Gillett found in a study 
of 92 families in New York City in 1917 that 48.9 per cent of the families 
were receiving less than the standard allowance of 1.44 grams phos- 
phorus per man per day; 53.2 were receiving less than 0.68 gram calcium, 
and 41.3 per cent less than the 15 milligrams of iron. This study in 
the winter of 1918 showed the following increased deficiency: 



Families receiving less than the standard allowance of phosphorus 

Families receiving less than the standard allowance of calcium 

Families receiving less than the standard allowance of iron 



per cent 


per cent 


61.8 


48.9 


57.3 


53.2 


51.2 


41.3 



Doubtless this deficiency in the mineral content was one of the causes 
for the undersize and lack of vigor noted among the children of the 
famihes studied. Among the Italian children there were many cases 
of rickets, in fact one would seldom see a child between one and eight 



1920] Chicago's experiment 411 

years of age who was not extremely bow-legged. The investigators 
found many homes in which the housewives bought no milk at all be- 
cause they thought it too expensive and at the same time were bujong 
a small piece of cheese at $1.25 a pound. 

In the Italian homes \asited by the dietitians of the New York Associ- 
ation for Improving the Condition of the Poor there was found a decided 
contrast in their liberal use of milk. 

This is only one of the many illustrations that could be given of the 
improvements brought about in the diet by careful, personal instruction 
by philanthropic organizations. Lectures and group instruction would 
be of practically no avail in these instances because these women do 
not attend pubhc gatherings and could not understand what was said 
if they did. This individual instruction is a continued tedious process 
because the habits of years have to be overcome; yet the children are 
the future citizens and it is not right that they should suffer. 

In view of the conditions shown by dietary studies and in the improve- 
ment shown through instruction in the homes where mothers have not 
had an opportunity to learn how to adjust themselves to their circum- 
stances, it would seem to be a much wiser plan to spend money for 
instruction of the mothers rather than to spend it later as charity, 
doctor's bills, punishment for crime, and education and care for the 
mentally deficient. 

CHICAGO'S EXPERIMENT 

NANCY G. GLADISH 
Austin High School 

In February, 1920, at the beginning of the semester, the Chicago 
High Schools offered a half year general course in home economics for 
first-year girls. Ten weeks are used for food study, hygiene, and care 
of the house, and ten weeks for textiles, study of the family, and house 
furnishings. 

The lessons have been worked out by groups of the teachers, who chose 
the part of the subject each preferred, and consulting together arranged 
the material in shape for use. 

In many cases the domestic science and domestic art teachers carried 
parallel classes, exchanging at the end of ten weeks, so that each might 
keep to her major subject. In some cases, however, the same teacher 
is carrying the whole course. 



412 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

At the close of the first ten weeks a questionnaire was sent out, and 
according to the returns the teachers seem to find the course a success, 
even though changes will have to be made, and some lessons simplified 
and shortened. Many of us feel that it is the greatest opportunity that 
the home economics group have had lo reach the girls who have never 
before been able to take the subject. 

The following schedules are still open to change, but indicate the line 
of work : 

Outline of a General Coukse for High Schools from the Standpoint 
OF the Home 

5 single periods per week — 20 weeks. 
1. The Home. Emphasis on food. Ten weeks. 

Incomes and budget. Typical incomes of various groups of families repre- 
sented in Chicago, e.g., instructors; ministers; lawyers; carpenters; street-car 
men; clerks; unorganized laborers. Division of income, budget. Detailed 
lessons on amount to be spent for housing, clothing, and food; sa%nngs; recre- 
ation; banking; accounts. 

Food. Food for the family for the day; planning of meals for the day; 
marketing; special needs of members of the family, e.g., small children, aged, 
invalids. Preparation of meals. Trays for the sick. Cooking for children. 

Care and operation of home. Systematic planning and doing of daily and 
weekly work in the home; reading of electric and gas meter; heating systems; 
plumbing; plumbing code. Laws relating to housing. 

2. The Home. Emphasis on clothing. Ten weeks. 

The family in the home. Primitive life; evolution of family, part family life 
has played in civilization. Relation of family to community. 

Clothing. Principles which underlie selection of materials to be used in 
clothing and household furnishings; testing of fibers; comparison of ready-made 
and bought garments; remodeling and renovating; care of garments. Making 
some garments. Care of fabric and laundry work. 

Furnishing of the home. Selection of the home. Cost and decoration. Art 
principles underljong the selection and combination of colors. 

Bibliography 

Food Study, Wellman. Decoration of the Home, Daniels. 

Clothing for Women, Baldt. Feeding the Family, Rose. 

Housewifery, Balderston. The Business of the Household, Taber. 

Manual to Business Forms, Eaton. Care of the House, Clark. 
The Family as a Social and Educational 
Institution, Goodsell 

The following shows how the course might be divided into recitation and 
laboratory periods. It also shows how easily it could be programmed. 



1920] 



Chicago's experiment 



413 



WEEK 


REOTATIOH 


RECITATION 


LABOKATOXY 


LABORATORY 


RECTTATIOH 


1 


Typical in- 


Food for the 


100 calorie 


Food preser- 


Cost of foods 




comes 


family 


portions 


vation — ex- 
periments 




2 


Division of 


Division of 


Food preser- 


Food tests. 


Complete bud- 




income 


income. 
Begin bud- 
get 


v a t i n . 
Practical 


Analysis 


get 


3 


Detail of food 


Detail of food 


Day's ration 


Prepare 


Discuss break- 




in budget 


in budget. 


in raw food 


breakfast 


fast cost — 






Begin note 


materials. 




adeq ua te 






books 


Menu 




food value? 


4 


Table service 


Planning de- 


Prepare 


Prepare din- 


Discuss lunch- 






tails of lab- 


luncheon 


ner 


eon and din- 






oratory 






ner cost and 






work 






adequate 
diet 


5 


Planning spe- 


Plan labora- 


Prepare tray 


Prepare tray 


Note book 




cial diet — 


tory work 


for child 


for elderly 


work 




children 






person 






and aged 










6 


Household ac- 


B a n k i n g — 


Food tests 


Food tests 


Thrift lesson. 




count s — 


saving and 






Methods of 




Tabulate 


checking 






investments 




cost of meal 










7 


Marketing 


Invalid diet 


Prepare trays 


Prepare trays 


Weekly work 
of the home 


8 


Methods of 


Lighting. 


Ventilation 


Care of floors 


Plumbing 




heating 


Reading 
meters 


and experi- 
ments 






9 


Leavening 


Meat — experi- 


Bread making 


^leat 


Note book 




agent 


ments 






work 






Home recrea- 


Afternoon re- 


Evening re- 








tion 


freshments 


freshments 





1 


The family. 


Selection of 


Making of a 


Making of a 


The family. 




Primitive 


material for 


hat 


hat 


Middle Ages. 




and patri- 


a hat 






Renaissance 




archal 










2 


Family down 


Effect of in- 


Making of a 


Making of a 


Cost of hat 




to present 


dustrial rev- 


hat 


hat 


and compar- 




time includ- 


olution on 






ison with 




ing English 


family. 
The present 
situation 






commercial 
hat 


3 


Commercial 


Discussion of 


Testing ma- 


Testing ma- 


Physical prop- 




patterns 


sample 


terial for 
selection of 
goods for 
garments 


terial 


erties of fab- 
ric 



414 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



(September 



WUK 


UCITATIOH 


aZOTATIOII 


LABOtATOIT 


uaotAToav 


■lOTATIOM 


4 


Selection of 


Principles un- 


Making a gar- 


Making a gar- 


Floors and 




material for 


derlying 


ment 


ment 


floor cover- 




garment 


home decor- 
ation 






ing 


5 


Wall and wall 


Selection of 


Making a gar- 


Making a gar- 


Furnish a 4 




covering 


furniture 


ment 


ment 


room flat 
$500 


6 


Seasonal care 


Repair of gar- 


Making a gar- 


Making a gar- 


Cost of gar- 




of clothing 


ments 


ment 


ment 


ment and 
comparison 
with com- 
mercial gar- 
ment 


7 


Complete de- 


Note book 


Making a 


Making a 


Preparation of 




tails of fur- 




household 


household 


clothes for 




nishing 




article 


article 


weekly wash 


8 


Use of re- 


Soaps and 


Laundry 


Laundry 


Laundry ap- 




agents in 


bluings. 






pliances and 




softening 


Starch 






care 




water 










9 


Detail of 


The com- 


Laundry 


Laundry 


General sum- 




clothes in 


pleted bud- 






mary and 




budget 


get for fam- 
ily 






note book 



While the course seems crowded and almost impossible of achievement, 
while it requires careful planning and preparation, the girls enjoy it, 
perhaps partly because it means high speed work, as youth loves the 
swing of rapid action. 

It gives the pupils a starting point for knowledge of many things 
relating to home making, and in some cases it has aroused a strong 
desire to take the fuller home economics courses which will still be 
ofTered to upper class students. 

Some teachers have hnked up the work with the "home project" idea, 
and that is one of its possibilities, and, indeed, almost a necessity if the 
amount laid out is covered and made sufficiently the pupil's own so that 
it may really function in home life. 

The consensus of opinion of the home economics teachers seems to 
be that Chicago's Experiment is "blazing the way" for some very fine, 
useful, constructive work. 



1920] A PROJECT IN HOUSEHOLD ARTS 415 

A PROJECT IN HOUSEHOLD ARTS 

HELEN MESTON 

Note: The project herewith reported originated in a Household Arts Class 
in a private school in New York City during the term of practice teaching 
of Miss Helen Meston, a Student of Teachers College, Columbia University, 
and was carried out by her class under the supervision of Miss Josephine 
Marshall. 

It originated with the children and in the course of its development all 
phases of the work which the teacher had felt the girls were ready for and 
should have, arose naturally through the children's own suggestions. This 
was particularly interesting in as much as in a discussion previous to the 
origin of the project the children had expressed the opinion that they had 
had all they needed of costs, food values, and even of cooking processes, as 
is shown in Miss Meston's report. 

"We want to earn some money to buy a moving picture machine for 
our school, and we'd like to give a luncheon to our mothers and charge 
them for it!" 

This was the eager greeting which the teacher of foods received as 
she entered the laboratory of the Junior High School. The teacher was 
no less delighted with the scheme than were the girls, because she saw 
in it the possibility of working out certain plans which she had for the 
semester's work in a way that would be most interesting to the girls. 
The very next remark of the spokesman was evidence that one of the^ 
aims would be reached with no difficulty whatever. "It would have to 
be simple, because we want to make money." 

In planning the work in foods for the semester, the teacher had in 
mind some things which she felt it was quite important for the girls to 
leam. These girls had done some work in the preparation of foods and 
it seemed best that they take up their study now from the standpoints 
of health and economy. In a preliminary discussion lesson, very little 
interest was aroused in food values or anything in connection with health. 
The girls said, "We had that last year." Very few of them had ever 
been confronted with problems of economy, so this had no place in their 
original plan for serving a luncheon. The outlook for teaching the things 
that the girls needed, without lessening their interest, had not been very 
bright. 

How dififerent the problem became when they, themselves, felt the 
need for these things! The class at once plunged into the plans for 



416 THE JOURNAL OF UOME ECONOMICS [September 

the luncheon. After deciding upon the time, the menu was considered. 
This discussion followed : 

Teacher: "What do we have to think about, in planning this menu?" 

Edith: "Cost, because we want to make money." 

Teacher: "Anything else?" 

Mabel: "We want to give the most food value for the least money." 

Jean: "Isn't there some way of finding out what is the food value of 
anything?" 

Mabel: "Isn't there something about calories?" 

The meaning of the term "calories " was discussed, and the way the 
caloric is used to measure the energj' which our foods give us. Then 
the need for different kinds of food — especially protein, minerals, and 
vitamines — ^was considered. The next question was, "What dishes can 
we serve that will give these things for the least money?" Macaroni 
and cheese was decided upon as a satisfactory main dish. Edith told 
about her mother's recipe for macaroni and tomato with grated cheese 
on top, so Edith was asked to bring her recipe next time and prepare it. 

At the next lesson, one group prepared macaroni and tomato from 
Edith's redpe and one group macaroni and cheese from another recipe. 
Two girls worked out the number of calories in each recipe and two 
worked out the cost. The two dishes were properly served at the table 
and the vote was in favor of Edith's recipe. The class was asked to 
complete the menu that day. Many things were suggested, but they 
finally decided upon "Polly's salad," rolls, cocoa, and lemon jelly with 
whipped cream. 

There were still a number of details which had not been considered, 
so, at the beginning of the next lesson, the teacher asked the class to 
choose a committee to whom they were willing to entrust the plans for 
the luncheon. This committee met with the teacher, and made very 
definite plans for the menu and the apportionment of the work, while 
the remainder of the class made "Pollj''s salad" and cocoa under the 
direction of the super\'isor. The general committee appointed the 
waitresses, the reception committee, and a committee for the preparation 
of each article of food, and assigned the duties to each group. The 
girls on the committee did practically all of the planning and choosing, 
with only occasional suggestions and criticisms from the teacher. 

During the last regular lesson before the luncheon, each group was 
asked to make out its market order and hand it to the teacher. (These 
orders, after being checked and revised, were returned to the girls on 



1920] A PROJECT IN HOUSEHOLD ARTS 417 

their marketing day.) A practice service followed, in which the wait- 
resses could learn their part in the serving that would be needed. Two 
days before the luncheon, a little extra time was taken for a trip to the 
market, where the girls did their own purchasing under a teacher's 
supervision. On the afternoon before the luncheon was served, the 
girls met without the teacher to prepare their jelly, mayonnaise, and a 
few other things. Despite the previous warnings of the teacher that 
the room should be cleared up and the food carefully put away to be 
kept clean, the room was left in a very bad condition and some of the 
food exposed to dust over night. When the principal of the school 
saw the room the next morning, she felt that this was the time to teach 
the lesson the children needed and that it would be more effective if 
it should come from the principal instead of from the teacher of foods. 
Though she hated to cast shadows on the big day, she considered this 
one of the biggest lessons of the whole project, so she called the children 
out of their classroom and gave them a lesson in cleaning up, in taking 
care of food, and most of all in assuming their share of responsibihty. 
It was done in the kindly but forceful way that brings results. Need- 
less to say, the rooms were left in "apple-pie order" after the luncheon. 

On the day of the luncheon, each group went to work in a business- 
like way. Since the dining room was on the floor above the kitchen, 
there was a teacher in the dining room and one in the kitchen to suggest 
and help when help was asked for, but the work was done entirely by 
the girls, and their own ideas were carried out. Despite the fact that 
the macaroni had not enough salt, the salad plates were a little too full, 
the whipped cream on the dessert a bit "plastered," and the waitresses 
a little confused, the luncheon was voted a success and the mothers 
enjoyed it. 

When making the plans, the girls were inclined to buy and make too 
much of everything. The teacher showed them what a small profit 
they would have if they did this and suggested ways of cutting down, 
but they were sure they needed all that they had planned for, so they 
were allowed to have their own way. They did have a good deal of 
food left, of which they had to dispose. Some of it was sold for use 
in the school luncheon, and some was sold to the mothers. 

Menus and place-cards had been made in the art class, costs had 
been calculated in the seventh grade arithmetic class, and application 
of facts learned about foods were made in the hygiene class. These 
things, and the fact that the teacher in charge of the lunch room moved 



418 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

out of her room, and served luncheon to the little children in the Kinder- 
garten room, show the kind of cooperation that exists in the school. 

One of the most interesting things was the way in which Mabel took 
hold of the work. She had never cared for practical work before ; though 
she would always do what was assigned to her. she had never shown 
any real pleasure in doing it. From the beginning, she was interested 
in this and the calculation of the number of calories in each dish delighted 
her. When it was found that there would not be time to calculate 
calories in the class before the luncheon, she asked if she might do it 
outside of class. She did this, and after her work was ajjproved by a 
teacher, she gave a little talk to the mothers about the number of calories 
that were being offered them . 

At the first lesson after the luncheon, the whole class computed the 
calories in the dishes that were served, from a list of lOO-calorie portions 
of different foods. They re\iewed the reasons for computing calories, 
and found out about how many calories they would need in a day and 
how manj' for a single meal. This led, during the next lesson, to a trip 
to the Museum, where there was a special food exhibit. After this 
visit the girls asked for more study of food values. They planned to 
set up an exhibit of lOO-calorie portions, and did so at a later period. 

In the last lesson of this project, the children were asked to criticise 
their work from a general standpoint and to tell what they had learned 
from it indiNidually. They thought the whole project had been worth 
while. They had learned to work together, and they had learned some- 
thing about preparation of foods, table service, marketing, and care of 
the kitchen. Some of their own adverse criticisms were: "We had too 
much food." "The waitresses were not always paying attention and 
had to be called to their work." "A few girls tried to do too much and 
didn't give others a chance." "The macaroni didn't have enough 
salt." The teacher suggested that ever>'thing should be tasted before 
being served. They all thought they could do better another time. 

The supervisor was anxious for them to have a chance to correct the 
mistakes which they had made, so since the girls had worked out one 
project of their own, she suggested that they plan and sers-e a very 
simple luncheon for themselves, during a regular class period, doing 
everything as much better than they did it before as possible. The 
girls were pleased with this plan, and worked out this luncheon on the 
basis of their own individual needs. The serving of this completed the 
semester's work. 



1920] TRAINING STUDENTS FOR JOURNALISM 419 

TRAINING HOME ECONOMICS STUDENTS FOR 
JOURNALISM! 

MARIE SELLERS 
Household Editor, "Pictorial Review" 

It is a great privilege to speak on the topic of training home econonaics 
students for journalism because the farther I get into magazine work 
the more I realize the great need there is for journalistic training for 
the college student. 

Practically all of the leading agricultural colleges have courses in 
journalism, sometimes called "agricultural joumahsm" or "industrial 
journalism." Institutions such as the Universities of California, Col- 
orado, Illinois, Purdue (Indiana), Iowa State College, Kansas, Michigan, 
Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, Cornell (New York), North Dakota, 
Ohio, Oregon, Pennsylvania State, Washington, Wisconsin, give journal- 
istic training to students in home economics. 

Whatever the courses may be named, or whatever they purport to 
teach, it can be nothing but journalism, regardless of the subject-matter 
that forms the basis of the actual writing. If one can write acceptable 
news-items, editorials, or special articles, with their related journalistic 
forms, it makes little difference whether one specializes on alfalfa or 
human nutrition. 

The best training for a person who wishes to enter the field of writing 
on home topics, is a combinalion of the best in journalism and the best in 
home economics. A person lacking in either is severely handicapped, 
and it is hard to tell which is the worse — a trained home economist who 
thinks she can write, but can't; or a trained writer who thinks she knows 
home economics, but doesn't. It is futile to debate the point; first, 
because it is a matter of opinion; and, second, because both are unspeak- 
ably bad. 

A successful writer in this field must know the subject on which she 
writes. It is doubly necessary, because almost all readers have enough 
knowledge to enable them to detect some errors of facts. 

At Cornell the journalistic courses insist first on a ground work in 
the principles of English composition. No one can enter the journalism 

• Brief summary of a puper presented at the Tliirteenth .\nnual Meeting of the .\meri- 
can Home Economics Association, Colorado Springs, June, 1920. 



420 THE JOURNAL OF HOifE ECONOifics [September 

courses who has not satisfied that requirement. This practice is the 
usual one at other institutions, and I feel that it cannot be considered 
too seriously, for a training in good Knglish expression as well as com- 
position is very much needed today. There arc many students in our 
educational institutions, and especially in the agricultural colleges, who 
have not had in their youth the opportunity to hear perfect English 
spoken. In many cases these students' parents have moved out into 
the rural districts before schools were available and there have been, 
in many cases, few opportunities when advantage could be taken of 
good training in English. Some of the women students in agricultural 
colleges which I have visited have spoken to me of this and have ex- 
pressed their desire to have better training in the use of correct English. 
No field offers more opportunities for the use of journalistic training than 
that of extension work. The extension worker must be versatile not 
only in many phases of home economics but she must be ready at a 
moment's notice to give a speech or write an article or prepare some 
news item or editorial for the local papers. 

I hope the time has come when a course in journalism will be required 
for each home economics student, or at least that course ad\nsers will 
be instructed to urge their students to elect some study in journalism. 

As for the use of journalistic training in research work, editorial work, 
and magazine writing, there is a real need and a demand for combined 
training in home economics and journalism for a limited number of 
persons. Those qualified by training and aptitude will have no diffi- 
culties, other than those inherent in hard work, unflagging energy, and 
constant study, in achieving a high success. 



EDITORIAL 

Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics Association. 

The thirteenth annual meeting of the .\nierican Home Economics Asso- 
ciation was held at the Hotel Antlers, Colorado Springs, Colo., June 24 
to 29, 1920. There were about 300 in attendance. The arrangements 
had been made by Inga M. K. Allison, Chairman of the Committee on 
Time and Place, and every convenience and comfort possible to the 
members of the Association had been provided. 

The first Council meeting was held Wednesday evening, June 23, at 
8.00, and the regular sessions of the Association began at 2.00 p.m. on 
Thursday, June 24. The program committee, ^vith Abby Marlatt as 
chairman, had planned for two general meetings daily, thus leaving some 
time each day for those in attendance to avail themselves of the 
opportunities for trips 'round about the Springs. 

At the first meeting of the Association, held in the Ball Room of the 
Hotel Antlers, Mayor Thomas, of Colorado Springs, extended the greet- 
ings of the city to the Association, and Dean Corbett of the Colorado 
Agricultural College, Fort Colhns, brought the welcome of the state. 
The president of the Association, Edna N. White, responded to these 
greetings, and struck the keynote for the meetings to follow, showing 
their breadth of interest. She indicated the relation of the A. H. E. A. 
to child welfare, social service, legislation as afTecting the home and 
women in industry, and the field of education in general. 

Miss White emphasized the importance of surveys in the develop- 
ment of the work in home economics. 

Two addresses of strong, general interest were presented at this 
session^ — one by Mrs. Rufus Dawes, of the Community Kitchen, Evans- 
ton, 111., who spoke on the development of community kitchens, and 
the other by OHve Davis, of the Government Hotels for Women, Wash- 
ington, D. C, who spoke on the problems concerned with the organi- 
zation and administration of these hotels. 

In the evening, in the Sun Parlor of the Hotel Antlers, the Institution 
Economics Section held its meeting and the Extension Education Sec- 
tion met in the Ball Room. Strong programs had been arranged and 

both meetings were well attended. 

421 



422 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

The meeting on Friclay morning was in general charge of the Kxtcnsion 
Education Section. Preceding this jirogram, Cleo Murtland, Chairman 
of the Committee on Education of (iirls and Women for Industrial 
Occupations, of the National Society for Vocational Education presented 
a report. The American Home Economics Association took the follow- 
ing action in relation to the report: 

I. Resolved, That the A. H. E. A. go on record as approving the statement 
as made in the introduction of the report as presented; and be it further re- 
solved that the A. H. E. A. go on record as favoring a just division of federal 
appropriations for trade and industrial education in order that the interests 
of girls and women in industry may be properly considered and their education 
may be more adequately supported. 

II. Voted that the A. H. E. A. appoint a committee to cooperate with a 
committee representing trade and industrial education of women from the 
N. S. V. E., said committee to present a i^reliminary joint report at the Febru- 
ary meetings of the A. H. E. A. and the N. S. V. E., and also at the annual 
meeting of the A. H. E. A. in June, 1921. 

III. Resolved, That it is the consensus of opinion of the A. H. E. A. that in 
the vocational education of women in industrj' the educational value of e.xtra- 
mural training in the shops, factories, and offices is of equal rank with that 
given within the four walls of the school building, and that it should be organ- 
ized and supervised. 

The survey of the work of the extension field was well presented by 
Florence Ward of the Office of Extension Work, North and West, and by 
Ola Powell, Oflice of Extension Work, South. Papers were presented 
by Miriam Haynes, State Leader, Colorado, and Nina Crigler, Food 
Specialist, University of Illinois. 

On Friday afternoon two round tables were conducted — one of Red 
Cross workers, and one of public school teachers with Jenny H. Snow, 
Supervisor of Household Arts, Chicago Public Schools, as chairman. 

At 8.00 p.m. a general session was held, with Abby Marlatt as chair- 
man. Dr. Caroline Hedger, Medical Director of the Elizabeth Mc- 
Cormick IVIemorial Fund, Chicago, told of the work of that organization 
in combating malnutrition. She was followed by Marie Sellers of the 
Pictorial Review, New York City, who spoke on Training Home Eco- 
nomics Students for Journalism, and Harlan Smith, of the U. S. 
Department of Agriculture, who told of the publicity work of the Depart- 
ment of Agriculture in relation to home economics. 

At the Saturday morning meeting Dr. Langworthy spoke of the work 
in nutrition of the National Research Council. The meeting from this 



1920] EDITORIAL 423 

point on was in charge of the Textile Section, Mabel B. Trilling, presid- 
ing. Grace Denny, Ethel Phelps, and Paul I. Cherington, Secretary of 
the National Association of Wool Manufacturers, spoke on various 
phases of the textile question. Miriam Birdseye presented a report 
of the excellent constructive work which has been done, by the com- 
mittee of which she is chairman, on establishing minimum standards 
for textile fabrics. 

At the evening meeting the Textile Section, with Mabel Trilling as 
chairman, and the Science Section, with Dr. Helen B. Thompson as 
chairman, held meetings. Both meetings were well attended and 
excellent papers were offered. 

Other papers were presented on Monday and Tuesday, June 28 and 
29. Hugh Magill of the National Education Association spoke on The 
Nation and Education. Dr. Agnes Fay Morgan and Dr. Helen B. 
Thompson spoke on scientific phases of home economics. 

At 2.00 p.m., Monday, June 28, the Science Section held a second 
meeting with Dr. Helen B. Thompson presiding. On Tuesday afternoon 
a round table was held on Education in Homemaking, with Adelaide 
Baylor of the Federal Board for Vocational Education presiding. 

Four Council Meetings and two general business meetings were held 
with excellent attendance. 

The officers elected by the Association for the ensuing year are as 
follows: President, Mary E. Sweeney; Vice-presidents, Edna N. WTiite 
and Isabel Ely Lord; Council Members (terms to expire, 1925), Inga 
M. K. Allison, Isabel Bevier, Mary Kelso, Abby Marlatt, Helen B. 
Thompson. The Council appointed Lenna F. Cooper as secretary and 
Mr. H. G. Turpin as treasurer. A more detailed statement of the Coun- 
cil meetings and the business meetings of the Association will appear 
in the Association Bulletin. 

Due to the fact that the Secretary was teaching in the summer session 
in the University of Colorado, and had been graciously released for part 
of the time of the meetings, Lenna F. Cooper, the newly elected secre- 
tary, acted as secretary pro tem during the Council meetings and business 
meetings on Monday and Tuesday, June 28 and 29. 

Very efficient work was done by the Pen and Press Committee, with 
Ava B. Milam in charge, in pro\'iding reports of meetings to local and 
other daily papers, and reports of the convention to periodicals. This 
service was much appreciated. 

Cora M. Winchell, 
Secretary. 



424 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [September 

The Conference on Group Living. The Editor of the Joirnal 
was purlicularly fa\()ri<i in being ;ib!c to attend the Conference on Croup- 
Living held at the Lake Placid Club, Lake Placid, N. Y., May 27 to 31. 
Some 80 people gathered there, representing among others the American 
Home Economics Association, the American Dietetic Association and 
the Young Women's Christian Association. The presence of several 
deans of women and members of the faculty in institutions where insti- 
tution administration courses are taught added to the educational value 
of the conference. The one thing that marred the conference was Mrs. 
Dewey's illness. She was able to be present only at the first meeting 
when she gave her cordial welcome to the conference and made sug- 
gestions of great value. The program was an unusually broad one, 
including practical aspects of the work, the theoretical side on which 
these practical applications were based, business methods and research. 
Community kitchens, cafeteria service, the work of the social service 
dietitian, aspects of cooperative buying, opportunities for training in 
technical fields, diet studies, research work illustrated by a study of 
the apartment hotel, an account of work actually accomplished, such 
as the experiment in democracy in running government hotels — each of 
these received attention. 

Opportunities were given for inspecting the kitchens at Lake Placid, 
and, as always, walks, boating, and motor trips added to the pleasure 
of the guests. 

The informal conferences were especially valuable, as many points 
were brought out in these that were not touched upon in the more formal 
speeches. Several of the papers will appear in the Journal, some in 
the Modern Hospital and in other publications, while a general summary 
of the conference will also be printed. 

Diabetes and the War. It is a relief after reading and thinking 
of the nutritional calamities of the War, to learn of nutritional gains. 
One such is the decrease in diabetes of which many reports are coming 
in. Magnus-Levy in a recently received number of a German periodical' 
gives figures for the civilian population of Berlin. From 1900 to 1914 
deaths from diabetes had increased from 245 to 444, but by 1918 they 
had fallen off to 202. "The development of diabetes is particularly 
favored by luxurious nutrition. "^ 

'■Deutsche Medizinische Wochenschrifl, 45 (1919), p. 1379. 
« Chem. Abs., April 20, 1920. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



Bobbins of Belgium. By Charlotte Kel- 
logg. New York: Funk and Wagnalls 
Company, 1920, pp. 314. S2.00. 
"In Flanders fields the poppies blow" we 
have heard many times since MacRae wrote 
his exquisite little poem, but far less have we 
heard of the so-called "flower of Belgium" 
that continued to grow and blossom on the 
lace cushions of the Flemish women despite 
the vicissitudes of war. Many American 
women have an appreciation for "real" 
lace and cherish a few pieces perhaps 
handed down from mother to daughter, but 
few there are who have any knowledge of 
the technique of such lace and the conditions 
under which it is made. Mrs. Vernon Kel- 
logg in her book, entitled Bobbins of Bel- 
gium, describing a series of "little journeys" 
to the lace districts, gives in informal and 
non-technical language much interesting in- 
formation about the lace industry which has 
flourished in Belgium since the Renaissance. 
Strangely enough the Great War has in 
many ways benefited this industry in Bel- 
gium. Through the efforts of the Brussels 
Lace Committee, a group of prominent and 
devoted Belgian women, the work was kept 
going during the war, fine old designs and 
types were revived, lietter wages were ob- 
tained for the workers, and, what is per- 
haps even more important for the art, nor- 
mal schools are being developed in which 
workers are trained as teachers. 

Bobbins of Belgium may also be considered 
a plea to patrons of the arts to encourage 
the making of the more difficult and delicate 
kinds of lace suitable in reality only to be 
placed in collections. The more skilled 
workers are passing, but new ones will take 
their places if the wages are made adequate. 
The book contains many and excellent 
illustrations of the various kinds of lace 



made in Belgium and of some pieces of his- 
torical interest, such as the scarf presented 
to Queen Wilhemina of Holland in gratitude 
for the help given to Belgians within Dutch 
borders during the war, and the magnificent 
banquet cloth presented to Queen Elizabeth 
on her return from exile. 

An appendix, with illustrations, by the 
Directrice of the Brussels School of Design 
gives the fundamentals of construction of 
the two main types of laces, those made 
with the needle and those made with bob- 
bins. 

Ruth Van Deman. 

Care and Feeding of Infants and Children. 
(A Text Book for Trained Nurses.) By 
Walter Reeve Ramsey, M.D. Phila- 
delphia: J. B. Lippincott Co., 1916, pp. 
290. $2.00. 

Infancy and Childhood. (A Popular Book on 
the Care of Children.) By Walter 
Reeve Ramsey, M.D. New York: E. P. 
Dutton & Co., 1916, pp. 198. $1.25. 
The worth of a book on child care is 
measured largely by its simplicity and adapt- 
ability to the every day needs of mothers and 
nurses. Dr. Ramsey in his two volumes has 
made it possible for mothers and nurses to 
obtain essential information regarding the 
care of children without going into the 
intricacies of percentage feeding or infant 
anatomy. A lot of scientific material has 
been boiled down by Dr. Ramsey and pre- 
sented without fads or fancies. Especial 
attention is given to breast feeding and the 
methods of encouraging it. He asserts that 
"90 per cent of mothers can nurse their 
babies in whole or in part for the first few 
months and many can nurse them wholly 
or in part for the first year." 

425 



426 



THE JOURNAL OF HOilE ECONOMICS 



(September 



His little book on Infancy and Childhood, 
written in a popular style, is commended to 
mothers who desire definite and concrete 
information regarding the up-bringing of 
their babies. This book has stood the test 
of four years and is still called for in increasing 
numbers. A little revision in certain parts 
would bring it more fully up to date, but even 
as it stands it is still a valuable manual for 
the mother. 

The nursing manual on the "Care and 
Feeding of Infants and Children" is pre- 
sented as a text book for trained nurses. 
It goes more into detail in the various phases 
of child hygiene and is profusely illustrated. 
Dr. Ramsey recognizes the need of nurses to 
be informed as to the development and prog- 
ress of child welfare work. 

Dr. Ramsey in his first chapter jxjinfs out 
clearly the necessary information for nurses 
relating to the development and progress of 
child welfare work. In this manual Dr. 
Ramsey, appreciating the need of nurses for 
a knowledge of fundamental principles of 
artificial feeding, has given more space to 
this subject although he is just as insistent 
upon breast feeding as in his book for 
mothers. 

The worth of this book as a manual for 
nurses is attested by the fact that it was in- 
troduced as the text book for nurses supcr- 
vismg the training of Health Visitors in 
France, under the direction of the Children's 
Bureau. 

Richard A. Bolt, M.D., 
General Director, Amer. Child Hygiene Assn. 

Food Inspection and- Analysis. By A. E. 

Leach and A. L. Winton. New York: 

John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 1920, 4 ed., pp. 

-xLx -I- 1090, pis. 42, figs. 128. S8.50. 

This manual, designed for the use of ana- 
lysts, health officers, chemists, and food 
economists, has been revised and enlarged to 
the extent of 90 pages; new material having 
been added or substituted for material in 



earlier editions. The former arrangement of 
chapters has been retained but the list of 
references at the end of chapters has been 
left out and, instead, more attention has 
been given to footnote references. As is 
stated in the preface, wherever possible the 
original papers referred to have been con- 
sulted and where this could not be done reli- 
ance has been placed in abstracts which 
appeared in "Chemical Abstracts" or in the 
"Kxperiment Station Record." A special 
feature is the final chapter by G. L. Wendt, 
"Determination of Acidity by Means of the 
Hydrogen Electrode," a method which, as 
pointed out, seems destined to play an im- 
portant part in food analyses. 

The book includes such subjects as food, 
its functions, proximate components, and 
nutritive value; general methods of food anal- 
ysis including microscope and refractometer; 
milk and milk products; flesh foods; eggs; 
cereal grains; tea, cofTee, and cocoa; edible 
oils and fats; sugar; as well as artificial food 
colors, food preservatives, artificial sweet- 
eners, flavoring extracts, and substitutes. 

Not only is the volume valuable for the 
analytical methods described but also for 
the large amount of information regarding 
properties and uses of foodstuffs and condi- 
ments, which it provides in convenient form. 

Meals, Poultry and Came; How to Buy, Cook 

and Carve. By Edouard Panchabd. 

New York: E. P. Dutton and Company, 

1919, pp. 134. S3.00. 

This book merits its sub-title "How to 
Buy, Cook and Carve" as it is full of many 
old, new and helpful suggestions under each 
heading. These are supplemented by un- 
usually fine illustrations which bring out 
the desired points. 

Part I is written ver>' definitely and clearly 
but Part II, "A Potpourri of Recipes," would 
be rather difficult for an inexperienced cook 
to follow. 

Mariok Evans Dakin, 
Pralt InslituU. 



1920] BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 427 

BOOKS RECEIVED 

Everyday Mouth Hygiene. Joseph Head, Dentist to Jefferson Hospital. Philadelphia: W. 

B. Saunders Co., 1920. Sl.OO. 
Experimental Organic Chemistry. Augustus P. West, University of the Philippines. Yon- 

kers, N. Y.: World Book Co., 1920, pp. 469. $3.00. 
Pood Facts Jor the Ilomemaker. Lucile Stimson Harvey. Boston and New York: Houghton 

Mifflin Co., 1920, pp. 314. $2.50. 
Hotisehold Arithmetic. Katherine F. Ball and Miriam E. West. Philadelphia. J. B. Lip- 

pincott Co., 1920. $1.48. 
Household Arts [or Home and School. Anna M. Cooley. New York: The Macmillan Co., 

Volume 1, 1920, pp. 221. 
The Nation's Food. Raymond Pearl. Philadelphia: W. B. Saunders Co., 1920, pp. 274. 

$3.50. 
Transactions af the Tenth .Annual Meeting. .American Child Hygiene .Association, 1211 

Cathedral St., Baltimore, Md. $3.00. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HOME ECONOMICS 

PERIODICAL LITERATURE 
Miscellaneous 

The Origins of Civilization. J. H. Breasted, Sci. Mo., 9 (1919), Nos. 4, pp. 289-316, 
figs. 23; 5, pp. 416-422, figs. 17; 6, pp. 561-577, figs. 19; 10 (1920), No. 1, pp. 87-105, figs. 
18; 2, pp. 183-209, figs. 32; 3, pp. 249-268, figs. 18. In these William EUery Hale lectures 
before the National .Academy of Sciences in Washington, the author discusses the origin of 
civilization in the Nile valley in the old stone age and traces its development and spread 
through Asia Minor to Europe. To the Egyptians is ascribed the domestication of cereal 
grains (such as wheat and emmer), of flax, and of cattle, sheep, and other animals. The de- 
velopment of architecture is considered, and mention is made of clothing, agriculture, com- 
merce, and many other matters. Although not prepared for students of home economics, 
this clear and well presented summary contains much information of interest to them. 

Wages and Hours of Domestic Servants in England and Bavaria. U. S. Depl. Labor, 
Bur. Labor Statis., Mo. Labor Rev., 10 (1920), No. 2, pp. 130-132. 

Electrical Efficiency in the Home. B. Grey, -Vra' West Mag., 11 (1920), No. S-<5, pp. 
88-91, figs. 5. — Possibilities of equipment for different rooms of a house are discussed and a 
considerable amount of information given. 

Domestic Science as an Opportunity for Sex Education. Lo Ree Cave, Kansas Slate 
Board Health Bill., 16 (1920), No. 4, pp. 67-72. This paper was read at the Kansas Con- 
ference of Education, Washburn College, Topeka, May, 1920. 

The New Visiting Housekeeper: Her Training and Her Work. Emma A. Winslow, The 
Family, May, 1920. 

A Hampton Girl's Training. Carrie Alberta Lyford, The Southern Workman, May, 1920. 



428 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS (September 

Child Welfare. The Indian Journal of Sociology (Baroda, India), Jan., 1920. 

Posture Clinics Establi&licd by a School Nurse. Idabcl Uurgan, The Commonheullh, 
Mar. -Apr., 1920. 

Uow Coolting /Vffccls the Digestibility of I'oods. AUIra Sandwall, The Commonheallh, 
Ma».-.\pr., 1920. 

Japanese Toys. M. Kimura, Japan Hag., 10 (1920;, No. 9, pp. 363-365, fig. I. Infor- 
mation is given regarding the kinds of toys produced in Japan for domestic and foreign trade, 
as well at data concerning kinds of toys required for different markets. 

A New I'ibre. K. Hoshino, Japan Mag., 10 (1920J, No. 9, pp. 345-347. A new fibre 
plant (phyllospadix scouleri), one of the marine algae of Japan, has been found promising 
as a source of fibre for paper making and for spinning mixed with cotton. 

Series of Photographs from the first K.xhit)ition of American Textiles, Costumes, and 
Mechanical Processes. A'a/. History, 19 (1919;, No. 6, pp. 63I-<)54. The exhibit was 
held at the American Museum of Natural Historj', New York, Nov. 12 to Dec. 1, 1919. 
The legends accompanying the pictures were jircpared by Herbert J. Spinden. 

Creating a National Art. Herbert J. Spindcn, Nat. Bistory, 19 (1919), No. 6, pp. 623-630. 
In a postscript to the article data arc given regarding the American Museum of Natural 
History (New York) Exhibition of Industrial .\rts in Textiles and Costumes. 

American Textiles. M. D. C. Crawford, Cen. Fed. Mag., Feb.-Mar., 1920. 

The Microscopical Identification of Commercial Fur Hairs. L. A. Hausman, Sci. Mo., 
10 (1920), No. 1, pp. 70. The relative durability of different furs, the nature of the hair, 
and its identification by microscopical methods are discussed, and much general infor- 
mation regarding furs and their nomenclature and use is given. 

The Glass Industry in America. A. Douglas Nash, Cen. Fed. Mag., Feb.-Mar., 1920. 

How the Chinese Make Their Beautiful Enamel Work. Sidney J. Hall, Sci. Amer., 
cxzii, No. 10, March 6, 1920. This note on Cloisonne Enamel is brief and popular. 

Ceramics 

Journal of the American Ceramic Society, 1 (1918): 

Ground Coat Enamels for Cast Iron, H. F. Staley, No. 2, pp. 99-112. — Comparative 
studies of different enamels. Paper is followed by discussion. 

.Alabaster Glass: Historj- and Composition, A. Silverman, No. 4, pp. 247, 261 (figs. I). — 
Bibliography is appended. 

The Action of Acetic Acid Solutions of different Strengths on a Sheet Steel Enamel, L. 
J. Frost, No. 6, pp. 422-428 (fig. 1). — In this paper, of interest in connection with 
enamelware for cooking purposes, results of some tests are reported, .\ccording to 
the author's experiments, a 4 to 5 per cent solution by volume of "such an acetic 
acid as would probably be used for testing at most cooking utensil plants is well up 
in strength as regards its action on the enamel surface. This per cent acid is also 
of about the same strength as the strongest vinegar, which is probabl)- the most 
destructive agent to which an enameled cooking utensil is subjected in ordinar>- use." 
In the discussion following this paper the statement is made that "tartaric acid 
from cookini; grapes, as in making grape marmalade, has a much more severe action 
on enamels than acetic acid." 

Preparation and Application of Enamels for Cast Iron, H. F. Staley, No. 8, pp. 534- 
555 (figs. 4). — Discussion of methods followed in enameling bath tubs. 

Some T>-pes of Porcelain, F. H. Eiddle and W. W. McDanel,. No. 9.— 606-627 (figs. 13). 

The Control of the Luster of Enamels, H. F. Staley, No. 9, pp. 640-647. 

Note on Certain Characteristics of Porcelain, A. V. Bleininger, No. 10, pp. 697-702 (fig 
1). Formulae gi\en for enamels such as are used for making enamelware goods. 



Vol. XII, No. 10 Octdber, 1920 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemaking, Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

Mas. Alice P. Norton, Editor Ketdrab E. Baldwin, Business Editor 

Editoriai Board 
Mas. Mary H. Abel C. F. Lancworthy Amy Daniels Roto Wheeler Violet Rvley 

Ex-OJficio Members~MAR\ E. Sweeny, President American Home Economics Association 
NoLA Treat, Chairman Institution Economics Section 
Minna Denton, Chairman Science Section 
Ola Powell, Chairman Extension Education Section 
La.hiAN Peek. Chairman Textile Section 

Collaborators — The Officers, Members of the Council, and Advisors 

CONTENTS 

Recent Changes in British Education' Sir Auckland Geddes 429 

The F.\rm Woman's Problems Florence E. \Vard 437 

Gas Utilization Work of the Department of the Interior .... Olga A. Elifrilz 458 
The Relation of the Extension Specialist to Field Work ... Xina B. Crigler 459 

Editori.m 465 

The Open Forim ... 469 

News from the Fiki.d 471 



The JODftNAL OP Houc Economics is published monthly by the American Home Economics Associstioo 
$2.00 A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.35. CANADIAN J2.20. SINGLE COPIES 25 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be sent by Check, Express Order or Postal Money Order, payable to the 
American Home Economics Association. Currency unless mailed in a registered letter is at the sender's risk. 

NOTICE. When payment Is made by check no receipt will be sent unless requested. 

CHANGE IN ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent two weeks before the dale of issue on which 
the change is to take effect. The subscriber's Old Address should be clearly Indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 1211 Cathedral St., Baltimore, Md. 

Tbi Jouknxl of Home Econouics is on sale at John Wanamaker's, Philadelphia; The Old Comer Book Store, Botton; 
A. C. McClurg's, Chicago; Baltimore News Company, Baltimore; Woodward and Lothrop, Washington. 



wvRSAt. OF iiour. Koyoutcr-.trvn'TrFuryT^ 






A- 



THE KEYSTONE 
OF GOOD BAKING 

^'oiir lilscuits, rolls, gems und oflier dainty 
hrcad-sluffs can be n<j better tluin tbc bak- 
ing powder with 'wbich tbi-y are niacle. 
Good baking powder is tbe leavening agent 
tliiit m^lkes fbeni ligbt and digestible. It is 
the keystone in tbe milking of appetizing, 
wholesorne cake, biscuits, muffins, etc. 

Of course, you want only tbe best of bak- 
ing powder, and this is always assured 
when you use 

ROYAL 

Baking Powder 



Made from 

Cream of Tartar 

aerivca from 

Grapes 




In wridng advertisers, please mention Journal of Home Economici 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. Xn OCTOBER, 1920 No. 10 

RECENT CHANGES IN BRITISH EDUCATION' 

SIR AUCKLAND GEDDES 
Brilisk Ambassador to the United States 

May I preface my short account of certain changes which are taking 
place in British education by a short profession of faith? 

I do not believe that in matters educational any country can copy the 
forms and machinery of education thought out and elaborated by another 
country. I have held to this faith with tenacity and not without pug- 
nacity on occasions when I as an educationist was asked to adopt meth- 
ods in vogue in other countries. I said then, as I say now, "A system 
of education to be effective must grow out of the soil, out of the genius 
of the people. The most I can do is to familiarize myself with the meth- 
ods and ideals of other countries and then in its own good time my mind 
will sift out the good in them from the bad, the applicable from the 
inapplicable, and will apply them to its own problems." 

Knowing that I hold this belief I feel sure that you will exonerate me 
from any supposed desire to thrust upon you for acceptance any educa- 
tional form, pattern, or ideal, and you will accept me for what I am, a 
simple reporter, who is glad to have this opportunity of telling 3'ou of 
what he knows, has seen, and thinks. 

One further warning and then my path is clear. No reporter who deals 
with a subject about which he is an enthusiast can, however hard he 
may try, avoid coloring to seme extent, in its passage through his mind, 
the matter which he reports. I therefore ask you first to credit me \vith 

'Address delivered at the National Citizens Conference on Education, Washington, 
D. C. May, 1920. Printed by permission of the Commissioner of Education. 

429 



430 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

a desire to report accurately and fairly, next to debit me with a certain 
incapacity to report otherwise than as I see things after they have been 
soaked in the dye vats of my understanding. 

Here at once we come to the very heart of the problem of education, 
for the period of education of the individual is marked, whether we will 
it or no, by the transformation of the mind, colorless perhaps in early 
childhood (thouph I am not quite sure of that), into the rich and inex- 
haustible dye vat which we call the educated mind. There are other 
processes in progress simultaneously, but the end of education is to turn 
out minds that sec facts in a certain color. You professional education- 
ists may question the accuracy of my belief and may say that I am jug- 
gling with words, that I am calling prejudices colors and that everyone 
knows the eflect of education is to get rid of prejudices. I used to believe 
that, only I know now that I was wrong. The efifect of education is to 
produce a set of super refined prejudices which are not really prejudices 
in any ordinary meaning of the word, so I shall content myself with re- 
peating that the educated mind is an inexhaustible dye vat. It will 
dye anything. 

The path is now clear so let us begin. The war showed us Britons 
many things in a new light and one of the most important things that 
we saw or thought we saw was that the old social order which had stood 
the test of time was not going to stand much longer and that in order to 
make the transition from the old to the new possible without catastrophe 
we had to get busy first to bring every adult female as well as male into 
the circle of responsible citizens, next to do our utmost as speedily as 
possible to equip those citizens, or at all events the recruits to their 
numbers, with educated minds. 

It was this thought that made Mr. Fisher, British Minister for Educa- 
tion, say in February, 1917 — "The proclamation of Peace and Victory 
will summon us not to complacent repose but to greater efforts for a 
more enduring \'ictor}'. The future welfare of the nation depends upon 
its schools." 

Then we who were in Parliament set to work to modify the law to 
give the following results: 

1 . To extend the age of compulsory attendance without exemption to 
14, or to 15 or 16 by local by-law. 

2. To p^o^^de medical inspection and treatment and physical welfare, 
before, through, and after school to the age of 18. 

3. To establish nursery schools for children between two and five and 
six. 



1920] RECENT CHANGES IN BRITISH EDUCATION 431 

4. To establish a system of compulsory continuation (part time) school 
attendance ultimately to 18. 

5. To arrange for the promotion of poor but able pupils by a system 
of scholarships and maintenance grants past the higher rungs of the edu- 
cational ladder in the hope that in the future the nation may have the 
best mental capacity of all its sons and daughters to draw on for its 
service instead of having to content itself with such brains as a com- 
paratively Hmited class happen to produce. 

Incidentally we made a certain number of administrative changes. 
We concentrated the supervision over the acti\aties and welfare of chil- 
dren and adolescents in the hands of elected local education authorities. 
We also dealt with the inspection and supervision of private schools. 
Next we did our best to decentralize control by preserving and strength- 
ening the independence of local authorities, by extending their powers 
and functions. The control of these authorities was designed to be 
made effective by central insistence on minimum standards with encour- 
agement through grants to advance as far as possible. Finally the cost 
of education was divided equall}'^ between local and national taxes. 

This represents in brief form our attempt in the field of education to 
provide the facilities to make possible the realization of the ideals for 
which the war was fought. I find it difficult to conceive of any educa- 
tional scheme more fully imbued with the spirit of sane democracy. 

One of our ideals has perhaps been more unsparingly ridiculed than 
the rest — the proposal to found nurserj' schools. I notice the ridiculers 
are either childless or else are the sort of people who maintain at consid- 
erable expense in their own homes the very sort of nursery school which 
we are setting up for the use of all. It is easy to make merry and to 
draw pictures of tiny tots with horn rimmed spectacles toiling with great 
tomes, but the facts are otherwise. The purpose of the nurser\' schools 
is not even to teach the three R's,but,by sleep, food, and play to provide 
the opportunity for little children to lay the foundations of health, habit, 
and a responsive personality, which is just what every nursery- in the 
world is supposed to be doing. 

I have not time to enter into many details, but it is necessarv' for me 
to say this — that physical training is to form part of the weekly work of 
each pupil up to the age of adolescence. 

The secondary school (age range at least 12-17, may be 10-18) has 
not been neglected and the arrangements there are of considerable inter- 
est. There work tends to fall into two parts, the generalized part up to 



432 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

about 16 and the part which may be specialized above that age. The 
curriculum for the generalized part may be summarized as follows: 

This must pro\ide instruction in the English language and literature, 
at least one language other than English, geography, history, mathe- 
matics, science, and drawing. The instruction in science must include 
practical work by the pupils. In addition, either within or without the 
formal curriculum, provision must be made for organized games, physi- 
cal exercises, manual instruction, and singing. 

For girls, needlework, cookery, laundry work, housekeeping, and 
household hygiene arc compulsorj' subjects. 

For the specialized part of the curriculum, if that be taken, the work is 
founded upon the general education before 16 and consists of specializa- 
tion along lines on which the pupil has already shown ability. In every 
course there must be a substantial and coherent body of work taken by 
all pupils in one of these three groups: (A) science and mathematics, 
(B) classics, viz: the ci\ilization of the ancient world as embodied in 
the languages, literature, and history of Greece and Rome, or (C) mod- 
em studies, \Tz: the languages, literature, and history of the countries 
of Western Europe in medieval and modem times and the settlement and 
development of North and South America. 

In all advanced courses adequate pro\ision has to be made for the 
study and writing of the English language and of history and geography. 

A word perhaps may be useful on the subject of science teaching in 
the secondary schools. It has been laid down that "the course should 
be self contained and designed to give special attention to those natural 
phenomena which are matters of ever}' day experience." In fact the 
object of the science course is not to train specialists but to give some 
acquaintance to each child with the principles involved in the daily 
observed phenomena, from the ringing of an electric bell to the constmc- 
tion of a modem building, and to give to enquiring eyes a first peep into 
the fairj'land of science, so that those who have special aptitude to tread 
its thorny and stony tracks dehght in and may not be ignorant of the 
paths which lead in its direction. 

Beyond the secondary schools stand the universities, but of them I 
have not time today to speak. Not that there is nothing to say about 
them. There is more perhaps than ever before. They are palpitating 
with new Hfe, new thought, new energy. But of one side of adult educa- 
tion I must speak — adult education for people who have to earn their 
daily bread and can only devote a small part of each day to educational 



1920] RECENT CHANGES IN BRITISH EDUCATION 433 

studies. I do not mean technical education; that on the whole is fairly 
well pro-vided for in most parts of the country — but historical, political, 
economic, and cultural education, There is a widespread and growing 
demand for this in all parts of the country. National machinery has 
not yet been elaborated to meet this demand, but in countless ways in 
countless places facilities are being pro\ided. Soon the situation will 
begin to clarify itself and as it clarifies will come a coherence that is still 
lacking. 

So much for the machinery. I have sketched it in its broadest outUnes 
only, because the machinery by itself is nothing — it is the spirit which 
gives life, and that you may begin to understand one spirit which in- 
spires our educational machinery I must ask you to bear with me while 
I describe for a few moments the ideals which animate the new Britain. 
First you must realize that Britain is thoroughly democratized. Its 
Government is in fact more immediately and directly under the control 
of the people than that of your country. Outside observers are inclined 
to think that because the head of our State is a King there is some mys- 
terious subtraction from the people's power through what I hear some 
of you call "the King business." It is not so. We like calling our hered- 
itary president a King because this is his home with a wealth of asso- 
ciation and because we have the deepest affection for him and admiration 
for his and his family's service to the State; but in truth and in fact 
King George has a good deal less direct power than the occupant from 
time to time of the office of President of the United States. Next, our 
Cabinet is day by day responsible to Parliament. If it cannot find a 
majority there to support it on all matters of principle it must go out 
of office or else get a new Parhament that will support it returned by the 
electors ; and, finally, the Government has to appeal to the people through 
a dissolution of Parliament at least once in five years and when it does 
appeal practically every man and woman has a vote. 

The day to day responsibility of the Cabinet to Parliament and 
through Parliament to the people has this effect — politics are a staple 
interest at all times to all men and all women. We have, of course, 
periods of more intense interest and periods of less, but the general level 
of interest is fairly high. These facts color the whole of our educational 
practice. Education with us is tending to become less and less directed 
towards the conscious end of simply fitting a man to earn his daily bread. 
Man does not live for or by bread alone. If he does he is hardly worth 
keeping alive. He is a member of a family, a trades union, a club, a 



434 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS (October 

city, a nation, a church. He is a human personality with sonit-thing 
mort- than a pair of hands condemned to toil at will of another. He has 
intellectual and aesthetic taste (only too often cramped and undevel- 
oped) and moral principles. He believes in liberty, justice, and public 
right and has shown hinself prepared to give his life for these things. 
Each is a citizen and every citizen, regardless of his social position or 
wealth, has claims which are prior to all economic claims on him — 
claims of opportunities to enable him to fulfill his manifold responsibilities 
as a member of widening social groups from the family to the commun- 
ity. His responsibilities arc no less if he be a ship's riveter than if he 
were a naval architect. The locomotive fireman is no less a citizen than 
the railway director or the most wealthy railway shareholder. 

In short, the aim of education in Britain cannot be vocational — it 
must be nothing less than a preparation for the whole of life. If you 
followed my brief summary of the machinery' of education you will have 
noticed the stress laid both in primarv' and secondary schools upon the 
Englisn language, EngHsh literature, geography, and history, with, in 
the later stages, some science and some knowledge of at least one other 
country. You will have noticed, too, the drawing, the music, singing at 
all events, and games^ — games for character, organized games for team 
work — all directed towards the making of the citizen. 

There is, of course, a danger which has to be avoided through the spirit 
in which this education is given. We all know (who does not?) the type 
of half baked, half educated puppy, male and female, who, from the pin- 
nacle of doleful experience attained between the age of 20 and 25, looks 
down with pitying contempt on all the grown and hearty men who have 
dared to say a good word for life since the beginning of the world. Young 
prophets — and who that is young is not something of a prophet — tend to 
be prophets of woe, which they tell us can only be escaped by what we 
elders call revolution. Young thinkers, speakers, and writers are apt to 
suffer most uncomfortably from possession by blue de\ils which they 
assure us can only be exorcised by blood. This is no new phenomenon. 

Let me quote from Robert Louis Stevenson: — "It would be a poor 
service to spread culture, if this be its result, among the comparatively 
innocent and cheerful ranks of men. WTien our little poets have to be 
sent to look at the ploughman and learn wisdom, we must be careful 
how we tamper with our ploughman. WTien a man in not the best of 
circumstances preserves composure of mind and relishes ale and tobacco 
and his wife and children; when a man in this predicament can afford a 



1920] RECENT CHANGES IN BRITISH EDUCATION 435 

lesson by the way to what are called his intellectual superiors, there is 
plainly something to be lost as well as to be gained by teaching him to 
think differently. It is better to leave him as he is than to teach him 
whining. It is better that he should go without the cheerful light of 
culture, if cheerless doubt and paralyzing sentimentahsm are to be the 
consequence. Let us by all means fight against the hide-bound stolidity 
of sensation and sluggishness of mind which blurs and discolorizes for 
poor natures the wonderful pageant of consciousness. Let us teach 
people as much as we can to enjoy and they will learn for themselves to 
sympathize; but let us see to it, above all, that we give these lessons in 
a brave vivacious note and build the man up in courage while we demol- 
ish its substitute, indifference." 

I hope now that meaning is gradually emerging from my heterodoxy — 
that the cultured mind is Hke a richly filled dye vat and that the object 
of education is to select the dyes. A moment's thought and we can 
name four of them — courage, cheerfulness, sympathy, and some himiility. 
These are spiritual dyes ; there are also historical pigments which are so 
different that they are really of a different kind and should be thought of 
separately. To make my meaning plainer let me take an example from 
my own experience. Twenty and more years ago there were two broth- 
ers, one largely educated in England, the other in Scotland. The 
English educated, as a boy, hated and despised the French; the Scottish 
educated, at the same age, admired and sentimentally loved them. 
Both minds were approximately equally cultured but they were differ- 
ently charged with color. The explanation is simple; for centimes 
England and France were enemies, Scotland and France aUies. The 
school histories of England and Scotland reflected this and the result 
was as I have said. So you can pass through the whole range of the 
results of education and you will find the same sort of thing true. 

Anyhow beyond the machinery of education and the avowed purpose 
of education and the spiritual aspect of education stands the color of 
education. As a matter of fact the most vitally interesting thing to 
foreigners in connection with any national education is this thing I call 
its color. It ultimately matters more to your State Department than 
any other thing in the whole range of their manifold duties to know the 
color of the education being given in the British Empire, in France, in 
Germany, in all the countries of South America, yes, in all the countries 
of the world, for if your Secretarj' of Stale knows, let us say, the French 
color of education, he will know how that nation will be thinking ten 
years hence. 



436 THE jouKNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

Now the present Hrilish cflucalional color I can tell you something 
about. It is stronply anti-militarist and is, as it has always been, in- 
tensely friendly to you. As a matter of fact it is almost too sentimental 
about you. It presents you so favorably as to misrepresent you slightly 
and the result is that the common people of England are apt to be sur- 
prised, perhaps even a little disappointed when you are most yourselves, 
but at any rate it is a most friendly and appreciative color. Yet I would 
be less than candid if I did not say this: The teachers of England are in 
the main young men whose mind;^ have been ploughed and harrowed by 
the war. Their eyes see things less through a veil of tradition and cus- 
tom, and if there ever were a time that could be fairly called anxious in 
this particular respect it is this time. The same I believe is true else- 
where with the parts reversed. Now is the day both for political and 
educational statesmanship su to think and so to act that the color of the 
historical education given in the schools of all lands is fair and true and 
sympathetic to the real virtues that every great nation possesses and, 
when it has to deal with their vices and backslidings as it must (every 
nation has black pages in its history), it should see that the perspective is 
kept true and fair and the extenuating circumstances honestly presented. 

There is still one thing more. Beyond the machinery effects of edu- 
cation, beyond its avowed purpose, beyond its spiritual effect, beyond 
its color, stands last — greatest and most precious of all^ — the care of the 
ego. I used to tell my assistants to remember that those ten words of 
Walt Whitman's "Nothing, not God, is greater to one than oneself is" 
contained if they would only dig deep enough into them all the Law and 
the Prophets for them to remember in relation to their pupils. 

There is another saying of Walt Whitman's that a teacher has to re- 
member — "There is no object so soft but it makes a hub for the wheel's 
universe." Stevenson's comment on this is — " Rightly understood, it is 
on the softest of all objects, the s^Tnpathetic heart, that the wheel of 
society turns easily and securely as on a perfect axle." 

This completes my survey. For the heart of the British public, made 
wonderfully sympathetic by the war, shining through its Department of 
Education, is the organ which will protect and nourish the millions of 
young British egos, each more important to itself than God — remember 
they are young — and will provide the axle upon which the great educa- 
tional machine of its own creating will revolve as it shapes and molds 
the future, not only of the pupils entrusted to its care, but also of the 
nation which it is my high privilege to represent here among you. 



1920] THE FARM WOMAn's PROBLEMS 437 

THE FARM WOMAN'S PROBLEMS' 

FLORENCE E. WARD 
In Charge, Extension Work ttnth Women, Office of Extension Work North and West, United 
Stales Department of Agriculture 

THE FARM WOMAN TELLS HER OWN STORY 

By a singular anomaly the census places farm women with other 
homemakers in a class of those having "no occupation." The testimony 
of the ten thousand farm women who participated in a recently com- 
pleted farm home survey would indicate that the farm woman might 
be better described as one having ceaseless occupation, so varied and 
insistent are the demands made upon her. 

The Department of Agriculture, in its desire to extend to farm women 
the most practical and acceptable assistance possible, undertook, in coop- 
eration with the state agricultural colleges and farm bureaus, to learn 
from farm women themselves what were their real problems so that the 
cooperative extension service might be guided in doing its part toward 
the sohdng of those problems. 

This survey is beUeved to be one of the most significant pieces of work 
yet undertaken in the field of farm home studies. The 10,044 records 
received from farm women were secured largely by home demonstration 
agents between June and October, 1919. These present convincing 
evidence as to actual hving and working conditions under which farm 
women are meeting their responsibilities as partners in the farming busi- 
ness, and unmistakably point to certain definite kinds of assistance 
which the cooperative extension service can extend to rural homes of 
the northern and western states. 

How (he study was made. It may be asked to what extent the homes 
surveyed are typical of farming conditions over the 33 northern and 
western states in which the studies were made. It was requested that 
in selecting the counties to be surveyed the following plan be carried 
out: (1) choose the most typical fanning counties of each state; (2) 
take one or more of the most typical famiing communities in each 
county; (3) secure a record from every farm home in the locality selected, 
irrespective of size, farm tenure, prosperity of farm family, or other con- 
dirions; (4) select, if possible, a locality containing from 35 to 50 homes; 
and (5) include in the survey none but bona fide farm homes. 

' Presented at the Thirteenth Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation, Colorado Springs, June, 1920. Revisi-d tigurcs will appear in a Department 
bulletin entitled "\ Farm Home Sur\ev." 



438 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS (October 

A study of the returns shows that these requests were fairly well 
complied with. The figures obtained on the size and type of farms sur- 
veyed and the relative percentage of tenantry and farm ownership agree 
so closely with the figures shown in the census of 1910 for the correspond- 
ing geographic section as to confirm the belief that the localities were 
comparatively representative, although it seems probable that a some- 
what better response was obtained from the more progressive element 
of the communities, and that in consequence the answers presumably 
show conditions rather above the average. 

In considering the details of the surxej' that follow, it should be noted 
that in no single instance did all of the women answer any one question. 
For example, 9767 people answered the question regarding washing and 
ironing; 9400 stated that this work was done at home, making an aver- 
age of 96 per cent. 

It is evident that in some cases, women filling out the blank laid it 
down at some interruption and in taking it up again omitted certain 
questions. Many persons, apparently, assumed that if they omitted 
a question entirely they were indicating with sufficient clearness that 
the conditions under discussion did not exist in their families. For 
example, a large number failed to answer questions bearing upon the 
number of children of various ages, apparently because they had no 
children. The same is true of questions dealing %vith members of the 
family incapacitated by old age or illness; hired men and hired girls; 
the vacations or "days off" of the homemaker; and other points of 
information. It has, therefore, been necessary to base the average or 
percentage in each case upon the number of explicit answers instead of 
on the total numbers of surveys received, a procedure which results 
in certain instances in figures somewhat higher, it is believed, than 
actual facts warrant. 

One needs but to follow the average woman of the survey through a 
week's routine to gain some conception of the \itaUty and skills called 
into play by her duties as cook, seamstress, laundress, and nurse, family 
purchasing agent, teacher of her children, and factor in community life, 
as well as producer of dairy, garden, and poultrj' products. 

In considering the figures of the survey one should keep_ constantly 
in mind the two sides to the shield. One represents a favored small 
percentage of these 10,044 women whose surroundings, working con- 
ditions, and social experiences reach high levels of comfort and progress 
in farm home life. The other and larger percentage less fortunately 



1920] THE FARM WOMAN's PROBLEMS 439 

placed may give a somewhat exaggerated impression of hardship, unless 
one thinks of the motive back cf the work of wife and mother and the 
compensations that come to every homemaker in her round of activities 
for the happiness and comfort of her family. Anyone who has expe- 
rienced the satisfaction of living in the open country knows that the 
average farm woman is more fortunately placed in many ways than her 
average city sister. Studies of living and working conditions of city 
homemakers bring to light in many homes not only handicaps in home 
equipment and conveniences but an environment detrimental to health, 
happiness, and development. The varied interests of the farm woman's 
life, her contacts with growing things, her enjoyment of seasonal changes 
in nature, and her freedom from noise, dust, and confusion are not to be 
lost sight of in considering her comparative opportunity with home- 
makers of urban communities. It is not, however, the purpose of this 
discussion to go into these comparisons, but to present, to those inter- 
ested, conditions as the survey reflects them. That marked progress 
has been made during the past few years in raising rural home standards 
of living can not be questioned. Every community boasts some homes 
which exemplify the fact that the country today with a reasonable 
amount of prosperity and good management offers all of the freedom and 
independence of rural living with most of the hardships of former days 
eliminated. The telephone and the automobile free the farm family 
from isolation. Modern machinery for farm and home takes the drudg- 
ery from kitchen and field. Rural engineering has mastered the prob- 
lems of sanitation for the farm home. Community centers make possible 
wholesome and inspiring social contacts and mediums of self-expression. 
With all these modern resources which are taken advantage of and 
enjoyed by many progressive and prosperous farm families, there is 
still a large percentage of the total of farm homes in this country which 
has not yet, according to the figures of the survey, felt to any marked 
degree the influence of these life-giving factors. It is the realization of 
this need that stimulates the Department of Agriculture and the state 
colleges of agriculture to offer the service of extension work with women, 
a work which would not be needed if all homes had reached the high 
state of comfort and efficiency attained by the few. 

Economic importance of the farm woman. The survey indicates that 
much loss to family and community through waste of woman power 
could be prevented by a reasonable amount of planning and well directed 
investment in modern equipment. 



440 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

Everywhere we hear of the economic importance of a contented rural 
population willing to stay on the land and help to build it up. Perhaps 
the greatest factor in bringing this about will be the healthy, alert, and 
expert homemakers who, with the other members of the farm family, 
will see to it that a part of the increased income from the farm is directed 
toward the improvement of the home as a means of contentment and 
stimulus for farm work. Economists of our country, seeing the steady 
migration city -ward, recognizing the dearth of farm labor as a limiting 
factor in production, and connecting this with the isolation and incon- 
venience of rural living conditions, are pointing out that where these 
exist it is doubtful business policy to use increased income to buy more 
land with heavy interest charges against it rather than to spend part of 
that income in raising standards of li\'ing so that farm women may find 
contentment in comfortable homes and young people will not go to the 
cities in search of attractive living conditions and a satisfying social 
life. 

The independent, venturesome spirit of American youth has in no way 
expressed itself more characteristically than in the thousands of farm 
boys and girls who have turned courageous young backs upon a certain 
type of farm life which offers little that youth craves. This may be a 
disguised blessing, as the country boy or girl, who struggles free of one 
environment for another which seems to offer greater opportunity, may 
be a factor in preventing the development of the peasant type found in 
countries where generations of one family live on the same plot of land, 
not because it yields a satisfying life, but because of the difficulties and 
uncertainties of change. 

Hence the interest of the Department of Agriculture in the returns from 
these studies as to labor, working equipment, and compensations of the 
farm woman is as practical and as coldly calculating as its interest in 
farm studies regarding the labor, machinery, and crop returns of the 
farmer, and for the same general reasons. 

SOME FACTS FROM THE SURVEY 

Modern equipment brings Jiealth and leisure. A walkout might be 
foreshadowed in some industries, where love and service were not the 
ruling motives, by conditions brought out in table 1 which show that 
the average working day, summer and winter, for over 9000 farm women 
is 11.3 hours, and that 87 per cent of 8773 women report no vacation 
during the year. 



1920] 



THE FARM WOMAN S PROBLEMS 

TABLE 1 
Length of tht working day and vacation of farm women 



441 





SUIOIES 


WDITEK 


WOUZN 
BAVINO 
VACATIOM 


LENGTH 0? 




Work 


Rest 


Work 


Rest 






hours 

13.0 
13.2 
13.0 


hi>urs 
1.6 
1.5 
1.8 


hours 
10.7 
10.5 
10.2 


hours 
2.4 
2.3 
2.4 


per cent 
13 
12 
13 


days 
12.4 


Central 


10.8 




16.4 








13.1 


1.6 


10.5 


2.4 


13 


11.5 






Number of records 


9530 


8360 


9164 


8164 


8773 


1241 



Table 2 shows the extent of certain household tasks. Some of 
these might be eliminated if the principles of modem business were 
applied, and labor and time spent on others might be lessened if the 
farmhouse were as well equipped as the up-to-date barn, the appliances 
of which the farmer looks upon as so much currency with which to buy 
eflSciency. 

TABLE 2 
Farm women's household duties 





EOOUS 

TO CARE 

?0R 


STOVES 

TO CARE 

POR 


KERO- 
SENE 
UUIPS 


WATER TO CARRY 


DO OWN 
WASH- 


DOOWN 
SEWINO 


DAILY 

HEKD- 

DIO 






Percent- 
age 


Dis- 
tance 


BAKIHC 




9.7 

7.7 
5.3 


1.3 
1.3 

2.5 


percent 
79 
79 
77 


percent 
54 
68 
57 


leet 

23 
41 
65 


percent 
94 
97 
97 


percent 
86 
94 
95 


hours 

0.5 
0.6 
0.5 


percent 
89 


Central 


78 


Western 


97 








7.8 


1.6 


79 


61 


39 


96 


92 


0.6 


94 






Number of records .... 


9871 


9210 


9830 


6511 


6708 


9767 


9724 


8001 


9614 



Lighting. The installation of a modem lighting system would release 
some time in the 79 per cent of 9830 homes where kerosene lamps are 
used. The initial cost would be small when weighed against conven- 
iences and comfort. 

Healing. Nine thousand of the seven-room houses (average) are 
supplied with from one to two stoves, not counting the kitchen range. 
These add to the daily work of 54 per cent of the rural women who, when 
heat is needed, not only carry into the house the coal or wood to feed 
these stoves, but, according to their statements, kindle the fires in the 
morning and keep the home fires burning throughout the day. This 



442 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

condition could be greatly improved by some ty^ic of modem equipment 
placed in the basement. By this means the whole house could be kept 
comparatively wann and usable throughout the winter, and congestion 
avoided which results when the winter living quarters are limited to the 
kitchen and one or two other rooms. The normal town dweller keeps 
all of the rooms of his house comfortably warm. Too frequently the 
farm family contents itself with going to bed in chilled rooms. Breaking 
the ice in the water pitcher on rising in the morning is not entirely a 
matter of tradition. The family sometimes fails to connect lack of 
warmth and facilities for bathing and dressing with ailments and result- 
ant doctor bills which expense would in many cases pay for a modern 
heating system. 

Power. As power on the farm is the greatest of time and labor savers 
for the fanner so power in the home is one of the greatest boons to the 
housewife. Of the total number answering the question, 48 per cent 
reported power for operating farm machinery. When we consider that 
it is often a simple matter to connect the engine used at the barn with 
household equipment it seems a singular fact that but 22 per cent of the 
farm homes reporting have this advantage. Power for such frequently 
recurring tasks as churning and running the washing machine would 
greatly relieve the farm woman and give her a satisfying sense of modem 
efficiency. The eastern section reports 50 per cent power on the prem- 
ises, and 12 per cent in the home. One state reports seven per cent, 
and another, the lowest, two per cent of power machinery in the home. 
Only one state shows a larger percentage of power in the home (24) 
than on the farm (19). One state, the highest, shows 47 per cent of power 
in the home and 72 per cent on the farm. The one next highest shows 
44 per cent in the home and 78 per cent on the farm. 

Running water. It is frequently stated that mnning water is the pivot 
upon which much modern convenience and comfort turns. Of those 
reporting, but 32 per cent of the homes have running water; that means 
water drawn from a faucet and implies that water may be in other 
rooms besides the kitchen. Sixty-five per cent of the homes have 
water in the kitchen only, this means a pump or possibly a rubber hose 
attached to a barrel located inside or outside of the kitchen. However, 
in 60 per cent of the homes there is a sink with drain even though in many 
cases the water used at the sink has to be carried into the house by the 
pailful. In 61 per cent of the homes into which the water must be car- 
ried this work is done by women. Of 6784 women answering the ques- 



1920] 



THE FARM WOiLAN S PROBLEMS 



443 



tion, 20 per cent have bathrooms in their homes. The state ranking 
highest reported 48 per cent, and the one ranking lowest 3 per cent 
of homes having bathtubs. No one single thing brings so much relief 
to farm women in meeting their endless tasks as does the use of running 
water. It is undoubtedly the greatest need in rural home life today on 
more than two thirds of the farms. The advent of the bathroom, the 
indoor toilet, and other conveniences dependent upon running water 
bring not only untold release from drudgery but a sense of pride and 
ownership which is as important a factor in a woman's success in her 
daily round of work as is modern machinery for the success of the farmer. 

TABLE 3 
Equipmenl in farm homes surveyed 



SECTION OF COUNTRY 


RUN- 
NING 
WATER 


POWER 
UACHIN- 


WATER 
IN 

KrrcHEN 


WASH- 
MA- 
CHINE 


CAEPET- 

SWEEP- 

£E 


SEWING 

MA- 
CHINES 


SCREEN- 
ED WIN- 
DOWS 
AND 
DOORS 


OCT- 
DOOR 

TOILET 


BATH 

TOB 


SINE 
AND 
DRAIN 




percent 

39 
24 
36 


percenl 
12 

29 
22 


percent 

85 
60 
45 


percent 

52 
67 
49 


percent 

58 
46 
29 


percent 

94 
95 
95 


percent 
95 
98 
91 


per cent 
87 

93 
86 


per cent 

21 
18 
23 


percent 

80 




52 


Western 


44 


Average 


32 


22 


65 


57 


47 


95 


96 


90 


20 


60 


Number of 
records 


9320 


9080 


6092 


9472 


9513 


9560 


9667 


9580 


6784 


9334 



Hired help for the homemaker. The survey shows the passing of the 
"hired girl," once so important a factor in the economic and social life 
of the farm home. The answers received regarding help by the month 
and by the day are, as noted earlier, somewhat ambiguous. We inter- 
pret them to mean, however, that the number of homes employing hired 
women the year round is almost negligible, while about 14 per cent of 
the 8693 families reporting employed hired women for short periods 
perhaps during the peak of the heavy summer work. The average 
period during which such assistance is available is 3.6 months, the larg- 
est number of hired women and the shortest term being in the eastern 
section, the smallest number of hired women and the longest tern: of 
service being in the western section. From 8 to 10 per cent of the 
homes seem to employ women to help by the day, an average of \\ 
days per week. This assistance seems to be mainly for laundry work 
and cleaning. The percentage of homes employing such help by the 
day is larger in the eastern section than in the central and western 



444 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[October 



sections. The growing scarcity of domestic help only further empha- 
sizes the necessity for simpHfying the housework and pro\-iding the 
farm home with all modern labor saving dc\'ices. 

Outdoor work. In addition to her various duties in the house the farm 
woman is a productive worker on the farm, as evidenced by the figures 
shown in tables 4, 5 and 6; 36 per cent, of the women reporting, htlp 
with the milking of the family herd; 56 per cent take most of the care 
of the garden; 81 per cent care for the chickens; 25 per cent help with 
the livestock; and 24 per cent help in the field an average of 6.7 weeks 
during tlie year. 

TABLE 4 
Women helping in outdoor work and keeping accounts 



SECTION 01 COUNTRV 


mve WITH 

UVUTOCK 


HELP m 

riEiB 


WEEXS 
PER YEAR 


CARING roR 
OAROENS 


KEEPDtC 

PARU 
ACCODNTt 


KEEPING 

BOIfE 
ACCOCNn 




pit cent 
24 
26 
27 


percent 

Yl 
22 
23 


8.S 
4.9 
6.7 


pnctnt 
41 
67 

57 


ptrctnl 

28 
34 
33 


ptrunl 

23 
33 
34 


Central 








25 


24 


6.7 


56 


32 


30 




Number of records 


9365 


9179 


2196 


9526 


8730 


8750 



TABLE 5 
Woman's part of the work of the dairy 



SECTION OP COUNTRY 


COWS PER 
FARM 


WOMEN 
HELP 
MILK 


WOMEN 
WASH 
PAILS 


WASH 
SEPARA- 
TOR 


MAEE 

BCTTER 


SXEP 
RECORDS 


SELL 
BUTTER 


BAVE 
BCTTER 
HONEY 




8.0 
6.8 
4.8 


per cent 
24 
45 

37 


per cent 

85 
93 
85 


per cent 
50 
76 

63 


per cent 
43 
66 
74 


per cent 
22 
30 
36 


per cent 
31 
33 
33 


per cent 

9 


Central 


9 




16 








6.8 


36 


88 


65 


60 


29 


33 


11 






Number of records . . 


9670 


9342 


9361 


8817 


9190 


6356 


8498 


5354 



The dairy. Table 5 shows that ii per cent of the farm women report- 
ing make butter to sell. Since butter making' either for home use or 
for sale adds one item to the farm women's overcrowded schedule, it 
would seem to be justified only when a good creamery is not within 
reach. Experts advise that normally the best utilization of milk is to 
send the surplus to a creamery, after reserving an ample supply for 



1920] 



THE FARM WOMAN S PROBLEMS 



445 



home use, as the income from the dairy herd is usually greater when 
the produce is handled by the creamery than when butter is made at 
home. 

Poultry. The studies of poultry specialists parallel the figures in 
table 6: that 81 per cent of all poultry flocks in the country are cared for 
by women, with the largest per cent (89) in the Middle West. 

Accounts. Getting the most from a dollar and making sure that the 
home industry pays is recognized as an essential part of good business 
by 30 per cent of those answering the question regarding household 
finances, who stated that they were keeping accounts (table 4). Thirty- 
two per cent were keeping farm accounts. The records of those report- 
ing show that 11 per cent of those selling butter and 16 per cent of those 
selling eggs have the money for their own use. 

TABLE 6 
Care of poultry; records kept and money returns 



SECTION OF COUNTRY 


CARING FOR 

POULTRY 


AVERAGE SIZE 
OF FLOCK 


WOMEN HAV- 

LNG POULTRY 

HONEY 


WOUEN 

HAVING EGG 

UOKEY 


WOUEN KEEP- 
INC RECORDS 




per cent 

69 
89 
84 


90 
102 
71 


Per cent 

13 
25 
21 


per cent 

16 
16 
17 


per cent 

38 




51 


Western 


41 








81 


90 


22 


16 


45 








9477 


9742 


8312 


8324 


8628 







Community. Table 7, indicating an average distance of 5.9 miles to 
the nearest high school, 2.9 miles to the nearest church, and 4.8 miles 
to the nearest market, shows that country people are far enough from 
the center of trade, social, and religious activities to tempt the spirit of 
indi\'iduaUsm and to put their neighborliness and piety to the test. It 
points to the importance of pooling indiiidual interest in common com- 
munity enterprises such as canning kitchens, buying centers, markets, 
laundries, salvage shops, and sewing rooms as well as social centers for 
lectures, community sings, dram.atics, and games, which, if properly 
handled, break down the isolation of country homes and make possible 
the accomplishment of many otherwise difficult tasks, ^vith a sa^^ng of 
time and labor for the housewife, and often an opportunity for increased 
income as well as recreation for the entire family. 



446 



THE JOURNAL OF HOSIE ECONOMICS 



[October 



'I he automobile contributes materially to community life by reducing 
the distance factor. It will be noted in table 7 that an average of 62 
per cent of farms of the 9545 reporting own cars, with the largest (73) 
in the Middle West. The telephone also helps to overcome distance in 
72 per cent of the 9742 homes reporting. Again the Central West shows 
an advance with 85 per cent of the total number reporting. 

Health. Fortunate is the farm family whose members know the rudi- 
ments of caring for the sick and have an emergency kit fitted up and at 
hand. 

According to figures in table 7, the average farm home is more than 
five and one-half miles from the family doctor, nearly 12 miles from a 
trained nurse, and about 14 miles from a hospital. These distances are 





TAIiLE 7 
Distances, automobiles, and telephones 








SECTION OF COITNTEV 


11 


28 

Si 

Q 


2 


2 

is 

I' 


at 

si 


Hi 

5 


s > 

If 

Q 


* 

> 

< 




Eastern 


miles 

1.2 
1.6 
1.7 


milts 

4.3 
5.1 
9.6 


mites 

1.9 
2.6 
5.1 


miles 

3.1 
4.6 
7.7 


miUs 

3.5 
4.9 
10.4 


miles 

12.8 
12.7 

17.7 


miles 

9.9 
11.8 

15.5 


per cent 

48 
73 
62 


percent 
67 


Central 


85 


Western 


56 








1.5 


S.9 


2.9 


4.8 


5.7 


13.9 


11.9 


62 


72 






Number of records 


9627 


9767 


9726 


9708 


9837 


9605 


9463 


9545 


9748 



shortest in the eastern section and longest in the western section. This 
means that even though the farm home be provided with an automobile 
and a telephone, the farm family may be obliged to act unaided in case 
of sickness, childbirth, or serious accident, and that its members perhaps 
need more than ordinary training to prepare them for such exigencies. 

Twelve to fifteen per cent of the total families reporting recorded 
at least one person entirely or partially incapacitated by old age or chronic 
illness, although on this point there was some ambiguity in the answers, 
as previously stated. 

Along with proper nutrition, clothing, and exercise, sanitar*' condi- 
tions have an important bearing on the health of the children and adults 
on the farm. On the basis of 9580 reports, 90 per cent of rural homes 
still have an outdoor toilet. Only 20 per cent (6784 answering) have 



1920] THE FARM WOMAN's PROBLEMS 447 

bathtubs and this does not necessarily imply hot water in connection. 
Almost universally the houses are screened, as indicated by the 96 per 
cent of 9667 homes reporting. The desirable screened kitchen porch is 
found, however, in but 32 per cent of the 9502 homes reporting. 

Children. Among the surprises in tabulating the surveys was the 
small number of children in farm homes; 7467 reports show an average 
of but 1.18 under 10 years of age for each home, and but 0.89 between 
10 and 16 years of age for each home. It may be of interest here to 
note that the number of children in rural homes of the East falls 
below the countrywide ^average, the report showing 0.9 under 10 years 
and 0.77 between 10 and 16 years, on a basis of 2573 reports, 
while that in the western section is the highest, with 1 .4 under 
10 years (1734 reports) and 0.97 between 10 and 16 years (1923 
reports) . 

While there may be some doubt with reference to the figures regarding 
children, as has been indicated, in any event child life is an important 
factor in rural districts, and for the future of our agriculture, if for no 
other reason, an intelligent effort should be made and as much money 
expended to safeguard the child life on the farms as to safeguard other 
Hfe that has to do with building up the farmstead. A campaign to bring 
the child life, the most precious on the farm, up to standards of nutrition 
and development should excel in intensity campaigns in the interest of 
cow testing or poultry culling, since a large amount of the underdevelop- 
ment and malnutrition in rural children, irrespective of the prosperity 
of the homes from which they come, has been revealed by the recent 
weighing and measuring tests. 

The entire purpose which animates the work of the cooperative exten- 
sion service as it pertains to the home is to help tlic homemaker to so 
arrange the various departments of her housekeeping that she may 
secure for herself, her family, and her community the highest possible 
degree of health, happiness, and efficiency. Hence the facts in this 
survey become a challenge for increased cooperation with the farming 
people in placing housekeeping on as sound an economic basis as farming 
itself. 

Sidelights. Interesting sidelights revealing what was really in the 
minds of some of the farm women when they filled out the blanks of 
the survey are shown by comments written as footnotes or on sheets 
attached. These original and intimate expressions of opinion and con- 
viction, not only as to certain specific difficulties or advantages in an 



448 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

individual woman's home life, but her analysis and philosophy of the 
bigger issues of country li^^ng arc counted among the most precious 
records received by the Department. 

Briefly stated, here arc some of the points of view expressed. 

Farm women love the country and do not want to give up its freedom 
for city life. What they do want is normal li^^ng and working condi- 
tions in the farm home. "The country oflers greater opportunity for 
satisfying life than the city, and country women have as great capacity 
as city women for the enjojTncnt of life, but are more handicapped with 
routine work which absorbs their time and strength." 

Because of the shortage of help i)re\'alent throughout the (ountry, 
women consider it especially important that modem equipment and 
machinery so far as possible do the work which would otherwise fall to 
women. 

The questions are asked: "Does the farmer lack business sagacity 
who invests in the sulky plow, used only during one season of the year, 
and puts off the purchase of the washing machine?" "Is it an error in 
judgment to justify outlays which result in better crops and buildings, 
and consider home investments an extravagance?" 

The farm woman docs not wish to put up with today in the anticipa- 
tion of something better tomorrow or in her old age, but wants a chance 
to enjoy today as the only possession she is sure of. The woman feels 
that she owes it to herself and her family to "keep informed, attractive, 
and in harmony with life as the years advance." 

Women realize that no amount of wise arrangement or labor sa\'ing 
appliances wiD make a home. It is the woman's personal presence, 
influence, and care that make the home. Housekeeping is a business 
as sordid and practical as farming and with no romance in it; homemak- 
ing is a sacred trust. "A woman wants time salvaged from housekeep- 
ing to create the right home atmosphere for her children, and to so 
enrich home surroundings that they may gain their ideals of beauty and 
their tastes for books and music, not from the shop windows, the mo\ies, 
the bill boards, or the jazz band, but from the home en\dronment." 

In the minds of many women is the thought that the man at the head 
of the house lives imder a strain of hard work and competition and that 
"for him to have a comfortable fireside and a family that is happy, 
healthy, well fed, well clothed, well sheltered, and contented is his right 
and his greatest boon." 

The farm woman knows that there is no one who can take her place 
as teacher and companion of her children during their early impression- 



1920] THE FARM WOMAn's PROBLEMS 449 

able years, and she craves more time for their care. She feels the need 
of making the farm home an inviting place for the young people of the 
family and their friends and of promoting the recreational and educa- 
tional advantages of the neighborhood in order to cope with the various 
forms of city allurements. She realizes that modem conditions call for 
an even deeper realization and closer contact between mother and child. 
The famiUar term, "God could not be everywhere so He made mothers," 
has its modern scientific apphcation, as no amount of education and care 
given to children in school or elsewhere outside the home can take the 
place of mothering in the home. "The home exists for the child, hence 
the child's development should have first consideration." 

Farm women want to broaden their outlook and keep up with the 
advancement of their children "not by courses of study, but by bringing 
progressive ideas, methods, and facilities into the every day work and 
recreation of the home environment." 

The farm woman feels her isolation from neighbors as well as from 
libraries and other means of keeping in touch with outside life. She 
counts her favorite farm paper or woman's magazine among her valued 
aids. She beUeves that farm women should come together more often 
in organized groups to learn from each other, and to gain a mastery of 
their problems through united effort. "The farmer," she declares, 
"deals much with other men; the children form associates at school; 
but we, because of our narrow range of duties and distance from neigh- 
bors, form the habit of staying at home and, to a greater degree than is 
commonly supposed, feel the need for congenial companionship." 

Thus the farm woman, although considered conservative and inchned 
to put the question to things new and untried, expresses an openminded- 
ness and a forward looking spirit. When she is aroused and con\inced 
that any new step in advance is for the best interests of her home she 
will be found progressive, cooperative, adaptable, and ready to make 
changes no matter how great the personal effort or sacrifice. 

The five outstanding problems which the survey would indicate call 
for special consideration are : 

1. To shorten the working day of the average farm woman. 

2. To lessen the amount of heavy manual labor she now performs. 

3. To bring about higher standards of comfort and beauty for the 
farm home. 

4. To safeguard the health of the farm family, and especially the 
health of the mother and growing child. 



450 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

5. To develop and introduce money-.vielding home industries where 
necessary in order to make needed home improvements. 
These changes may most speedily be brought about by: 

1. Introducing (a) improved home equipment, principal among which 
are running water and power machinery, and (b) more efficient methods 
of household management, including the rearrangement of the incon- 
venient kitchen and the installment of a modem heating system for the 
whole house. 

2. Helping farm people to understand and apply the laws of nutrition 
and hygiene, through home demonstrations in (a) child care and feeding, 
(b) food selection for the family, (c) training in the essentials of home 
nursing, and (d) the installation of sanitary improvements. 

3. Cultivating the idea that investment in the comfort, beauty, health, 
and efficiency of the farm home and community is a wise and legitimate 
expenditure, and perhaps the only means of stopping the drift of young 
people to the city. 

THE SURVEY AND THE EXTENSION SERVICE 

The composite picture here presented of the actixities and environ- 
ment of a large group of farm women naturally raises the question as to 
what steps are being taken to relieve these women of some of their 
present handicaps. Replying to this, it may be stated that for some 
years the home economics pioneer has given her service to the house- 
wife. Since the passage of the Smith-Lever Act, the home demonstra- 
tion agent has become a factor in extension work with the home. The 
data here presented serves a dual purpose: first, it offers a reliable and 
much needed guide to extension workers in their service to the home; 
and, second, it points out to the farming people, and others interested, 
the great value of trained assistance to farm women along definite lines. 

In endeavoring to build up a broad educational extension movement, 
made possible by the Smith-Lever Act, the state colleges of agriculture 
and the States Relations Service have, up to this time, had a much more 
limited background of facts on which to base plans for cooperation with 
rural housewives than with farmers for the reason that little attention 
has been given to farm home problems, although the farm woman's 
work has as great economic importance and calls for as high a degree of 
skill and as wide a range of information and judgment as does the work 
of the farmer whose equipment and methods of farming have been the 
subject of many studies made by our agricultural institutions. 



1920] THE FARM WOMAN's PROBLEMS 451 

With the exception of the investigations of the Country Life Com- 
mission appointed by President Roosevelt, in 1908 (Senate Document 
705), and the inquiry as to Farm Home Conditions made by Secretary 
Houston in 1914, replies to which were compiled and interpreted (Year- 
book 1914, also Reports 103, 104, 105, and 106), and two intensive studies 
of counties made by the States Relations Service (Canyon County, Idaho, 
1916; St. Joseph County, Mich., 1916), comparatively little has been done 
in this field which throws light on conditions in the North and West. 
Hence the importance of the present survey, which, resting upon informa- 
tion from many communities, probably gives a fair diagnosis of farm home 
conchtions and, when interpreted by extension workers and farming 
people, should point to remedies which may be applied through organ- 
ized effort and local leadership. 

The farm bureau. With the introduction and development of the 
farm bureau idea, now nation-wide in its influence, promoting as it does 
a self-determined program of activities among the people for the eco- 
nomic and educational advancement of rural Hfe, the farmer and his 
wife are destined to analyze their home problems more and more and to 
make use of the farm bureau organization and the extension service for 
the sohdng of those problems. 

The farm is subsidiary to the home as is the home to the farm. Here 
men, women, and children form a working unit, with common interests 
and aims, and the farm bureau dealing with this family unit and with 
community groups \iews home work, not as isolated and detached from 
the farm, but as one phase of the problems of the farmstead. Men and 
boys work primarily with production in the business of farming and 
women and girls with utilization and conservation in the business of 
housekeeping, but all come together in a common interest and for a 
common goal — homemaking. Farming and housekeeping are not ends 
in themselves, but necessary means to the realization of this goal. 

Prosperity on the farm and efficiency in the house in their last analysis 
are only valuable as they make people better, wiser, and happier by cre- 
ating and multiplying opportunities for richer and more satisfying rural 
home and community hfe. Hence all extension forces, the county 
agricultural agents, club agents, home demonstration agents, and spe- 
cialists are working in their respective fields with this larger aim and 
purpose. This brings about constant interchange of effort and service. 
For example, the farm woman's interests and activities go beyond the 
threshold of her house, when necessary, into such work as poultry rais- 



452 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

ing, bee keeping, and marketing of home products. In this she fre- 
quently has the help not only of the men folks at home but of the county 
agricultural agent, the club agent, and men speciaUsts from the college. 
She may also call upon these for ad\ice and assistance in looking after 
the water supply and other phases of home improvement. Women exten- 
sion workers also frequently go out of their special field of home economics 
work to give advice and assistance, thus expressing, it is believed, the 
true spirit of the Smith-Lever Act which drawn in broad language refers 
equally to the service of the farm and home and includes all phases of 
work that etTect wholesome farm life. 

The home demonslralioti agenl. Women are everywhere welcoming 
the services of the home demonstration agent much as farmers welcome 
the agricultural county agent. This trained home economics worker, 
employed on federal, state, and local funds and devoting all her time to 
the advancement of home efficiency is studying with homemakers the 
needs of indi\idual homes and communities and is thus able, by linking 
her technical skill with the practical knowledge and experience of the 
housewives, to cooperate in the accomplishment of large results by pro- 
viding a channel through which the state agricultural college and the 
Department of Agriculture can deal directly with rural homemakers. 

Increased moral and financial support of local communities during 
the present fiscal year (1919-20) for the three hundred agents now 
employed has shown the belief of the people of the North and West in 
home demonstration work and placed it on a promising basis which 
looks toward its establishment eventually in every agricultural county 
in the North and West. 

A few instances are here given to show the methods used and results 
secured through the partnership of the housewife, the home demonstra- 
tion agent, and the home economics specialist in sohing some of the 
live problems pointed out in this surv'cy. 

Home management. A large family lived in a small house on a pros- 
perous farm ; httle thought had been given to the expenditure of any part 
of the farm income for home convenience. One day the mother in this 
home mentioned to the home demonstration agent that it was difficult 
to keep the kitchen in order when all members of the family used it as 
a place to "wash up." The agent suggested the possibihty of a wash 
room with water piped into it. The farmer and his wife became inter- 
ested. A carpenter was called in to make plans and before he had fin- 
ished his work a screened porch was added. The wash room later devel- 



1920] THE FARM WOMAn's PROBLEMS 453 

oped into a bathroom complete with modern fixtures. A few more timely 
remarks brought forth a new water front on the range and hot water 
tank and sink in the kitchen. About this time there was an item in 
the farm bureau colimin of the local paper regarding convenient kitchen 
arrangement. Following its suggestions this homemaker put blocks 
under her kitchen table to save bending when at work and moved the 
cupboard nearer the stove to lessen steps. Later a power washing 
machine was bought and a wash house built. The milk separator was 
moved out of the kitchen into the wash house. This homemaker was 
so delighted with her transformed work shop that she called in the 
neighbors to see it and as a result five more women rearranged their 
kitchens, two put water in the house, and three are now planning to 
purchase power washers. 

The annual report of the home demonstration agents for 1919 indicates 
that a decided advance was made last year in the business side of house- 
keeping. One hundred sixty-six counties where home demonstration 
agents were employed carried on some sort of county-wide campaign for 
increased home efficiency. 

One thousand seventy-seven farm families were assisted in rearranging 
farm house or kitchen as an important first step in efficient housekeeping, 
the largest number reporting from Iowa. 

Home economics specialists. Closely associated with the home demon- 
stration agent and preceding her as a pioneer is the home economics 
extension worker who goes out from the college to conduct extension 
schools, to train local leaders, and in various other ways to bring to house- 
wives the best methods and processes resulting from laboratory experi- 
mentation. Typifying this is the work of the Massachusetts clothing 
efficiency specialist who personally trained 268 local leaders in courses 
of clothing efficiency. These women passed on these courses to over 
4000 of their neighbors and acquaintances. As a result 4320 garments 
were made and 9802 remodeled, with an estimated saving of $56,998. 
This work done in cooperation with home demonstration agents is looked 
upon, in Massachusetts, as the beginning of a state-wide drive for cloth- 
ing efficiency which will meet the needs of every rural woman of moder- 
ate income who wishes to make part or all of her own simpler garments 
or those of her family. 

Replies to the survey indicate that 92 per cent of rural homemakers 
do a large part of their own seAving. 



454 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Octobcr 

Anything that shortens the time the farm woman spends on the family 
sewing or helps her to make or select garments that give better satisfac- 
tion for a given expenditure of time and money, and especially anything 
that helps her reduce clothing expenditures in this era of inflated prices 
meets a real need. 

The annual report for 1919 shows that clothing specialists and home 
demonstration agents aided through direct teaching and training of vol- 
unteer leaders in the making or remodeling of 30,000 garments at an 
estimated saving of $218,000. The following lines were stressed: reno- 
vating and remodeling, adaptation of commercial patterns, the making 
of dress forms, free hand cutting and drafting, and selection of textiles. 

School lunch. The hot school lunch project in which extension workers 
have had a prominent part has been most successful. The survey indi- 
cates that the average country school is about one and one-half miles 
from the home, which makes it impossible for the country child to 
share in the hot midday dinner prepared for the family. 

An examination of the school dinner pail often reveals that too fre- 
quently unappetizing or indigestible foods are the underlpng causes 
for lack of appetite and restlessness of pupils. Well selected food, attrac- 
tively packed, supplemented by one simple hot dish prepared by the 
pupils at school, has resulted in unproved health and better school rec- 
ords. It has also proved the opening wedge for the study of food selec- 
tion in the home not only for the child but for the whole family, and 
has increased the use of milk, cereals, and vegetables in the diet. 

In Pirtleville, Arizona, where malnutrition was prevalent among 
school children, the home demonstration agent secured the cooperation 
of the school principal, the school nurse, and the project leader of the 
Farm Bureau, in putting on a child feeding demonstration. At the end 
of the six weeks demonstration the children showed marked gains in 
weight and noticeable improvement in school work and deportment. 
The county was awakened to the benefits of proper child feeding, and the 
installation of school lunches in a number of outlying schools resulted. 

The annual report for 1919 shows that practically all of the ic) north- 
em and western states carried on some sort of hot school lunch acti\ities 
and that more than 3000 schools introduced school lunches through the 
influence of the home demonstration agent. 

Eome health. One of the outstanding extension projects during the 
past year has been that of home health. This has included demonstra- 
tion in first aid, the elements of home nursing, preparation of food for 



1920] THE FARM WOMAN's PROBLEMS 455 

sick and convalescents, and preventive hygiene. It is gratifying to 
know that 202 counties have adopted a home health project and that 
28,000 families have cooperated with home demonstration agents in an 
endeavor to improve their own and their neighbors' health. 

In Idaho where vigorous health work has been carried on, several 
county nurses are employed on state funds, this work being under the 
general direction of the state home demonstration leader. 

Activities outside the house. The ser\dce of the home demonstration 
agent is not confined to the house, but follows the woman into the garden, 
the poultry yard, and dairy to assist her in outside tasks when these 
contribute to home comfort. 

Judgment as to relative values usually guides the homemaker in deter- 
mining the amount of outdoor work it is profitable for her to do either 
as a money making scheme or as a means of producing food for the 
family table. Often when the woman lacks even small resources to 
bring needed comfort and beauty to the home, such industries as poultry 
raising and gardening provide the needed increase in income from which 
all the family may derive benefit. 

It is poor business from every standpoint, however, if work out of 
doors means overstrained nerves and muscles resulting from an attempt 
to take on these duties without releasing any household tasks or if it 
means neglect of housework or sacrificing attention to children, thus 
lowering instead of increasing the standard of li\'ing. 

Statistics show that young women are lea\ing the rural districts for 
the cities in larger numbers than young men. Where this is true the 
influence of the home demonstration agent has been most telling in 
helping young women to feel their economic importance in agricultural 
and home pursuits and in discovering ways of making incomes on the 
land equal to those that could be earned in shop or factory. 

Work with poultry. Poultry work has been promoted in several 
states through demonstrations along lines of poultry selection, breeding, 
raising, feeding, housing, culling, canning, preserv'ation of eggs, and 
cooperative selling of poultry products. Many flocks have been 
improved when farm women have found through culling demonstrations 
that 40 per cent of the average flock is non-productive. 

Connecticut, Delaware, Idaho, Illinois, Missouri, and \'ermont car- 
ried on intensive poultry culling campaigns in which the home demonstra- 
tion agents played a prominent part. Schools of instruction were held 
so that those trained might not only eliminate their own non-producing 
birds but teach their neighbors through community demonstrations. 



456 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [OctobcF 

In Missouri, 73,765 birds were eliminated from 1593 flocks culled with 
an estimated saving of $50,161. In the cooperative buying and selling 
of eggs 8 cents per dozen more was received than on the local markets. 

Afilk products. Making and using dairj' products in the home is being 
stimulated by the work of home demonstration agents who are coop- 
erating in milk campaigns for increased use of milk and milk-products in 
the home and the home manufacture of such milk products as can be 
most economically handled there. Reports of these agents for 15 states 
for the year 1919 show that 367,000 jxjunds of cheese were made by the 
house\vives to whom home demonstration agents and dairy specialists 
had given assistance in the best methods of making cottage, American 
and Cheddar cheese both for home consumption and for sale. 

It is claimed by those who have made investigations that 25 per cent 
of country children do not drink milk. A definite drive is now being 
carried on to persuade country children to drink more milk, and, to 
this end, feeding demonstrations are being conducted by home demon- 
stration agents in cooperation with parents and teachers. 

One state reports the increase of home consumption to be 438.000 
quarts daily; another state, where home demonstration work was carried 
on in only six counties, reports 279,000 quarts daily as a result of this 
work. In Indiana one home demonstration agent in cooperation with 
the school nurses and doctors proved the value of the increase of milk 
in the diet by putting on a child feeding demonstration with a group of 
undernourished children. At the end of six weeks an average gain of 
7^ pounds had been made and the school board voted funds to carry on 
the enterprise. 

Community enterprises. The socializing influence of the many war 
emergency organizations is now being capitalized by home demonstration 
agents who are assisting communities to tie up these temporar>' enter- 
prises with permaTient activities in connection with efiicient homemaking. 

Two effective means of reducing home drudgery are the introduction 
of such modem labor saving equipment in the home as will accomplish 
necessary work in the most efficient way; and the removal from the home 
of such activities as can be carried on as cheaply and as successfully 
through community cooperation as by traditional home methods; for 
example, since sur\'ey replies indicate that 96 per cent of the women do 
their washing and ironing, it would seem that such an activity might well 
be removed from the home, releasing each week many hours of the 
woman's time, and saving her from one of the heaviest tasks of the 



1920] THE FARM WOMAn's PROBLEMS 457 

household. Experiments in a number of communities indicate that a 
cooperative laundry, especially when run in connection with a creamerj', 
is not only a convenience but a paying investment. 

Recreation. Community working and trading centers mean much to 
rural women, not only from the standpoint of economy, time, money, 
and effort, but as a means of persuading the stay-at-home to walk through 
her gate and down the road to join her neighbors in some task which is 
made lighter through cooperation and from which she returns refreshed 
and encouraged with new ideas and plans, not only for her own house- 
keeping, but for the larger housekeeping of her neighborhood. No 
amount of socialized work, however, takes the place of real recreation, 
as it looks too earnestly toward a finished result. Carefree recreation 
for the deUght of the moment eases nervous tension, promotes good fellow- 
ship, and is as necessarj' for the mental and physical poise of men and 
women as it is for boys and girls. Home demonstration agents are, 
where no other agency is meeting this need, cooperating vnth farm fam- 
ilies in home and community recreation which includes games, chorus 
singing, dramatization, and pageants. 

The extension department of Montana State College, realizing the 
importance of this, employs a recreation specialist whose work is stimu- 
lating a fine social community spirit in many localities in that state where 
homes are so far apart. Montana is thus putting into practice a con- 
viction that is growing in the minds of extension workers everj-where 
that, while it is their first business to promote efficiency, this should be 
looked upon as a means of stimulating a richer and more satisfying rural 
life by freeing the homemaker's time and energj^ so that she may give 
attention to the attractiveness and comfort of her home, the training 
and companionship of her children, the enjoyment of books and neigh- 
bors, and the building up of recreational, social, and educational life 
of her community. Thus will increase the percentage of active, thinking 
women of service to society and reduce the percentage of passive slaves 
of routine whose tasks cease only to begin again with a new day. 

It is believed that the surv-ey just completed by farm women them- 
selves in cooperation with home demonstration agents is but the first of 
a series of intensive studies which will from time to time be made not 
only to show the needs but to mark the advancement that is sure to 
come as the government, colleges, and farming people work together on 
a common program for better agriculture and a richer rural life. 



458 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [October 

GAS UTILIZATION WORK OF THE DEPARTMENT OF THE 
INTERIOR' 

OLGA A. ELIFRITZ 
Natural Gas Conservation Ai^enl, Bureau of Mines 

Within the Union there are 23 states using natural gas as a fuel to a 
greater or lesser degree: West Virginia, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Kentucky, 
New York, Indiana, Arkansas, Louisiana, Texas, Oklahoma, and Cali- 
fornia producing 98 per cent of the supply. Till within a few years 
there has been no thought of the possible failure of natural gas and 
there has been extreme waste that has brought about an acute shortage. 
Since there is no fuel which altogether equals nature made gas in heating 
value, cleanliness, convenience, and cost, this directly affects the com- 
fort and well-being of over 2,400,000 domestic consumers, not to mention 
the industrial user. 

A National Gas Congress, called by former Secretary Lane, and 
attended by gas oflfidals, geologists, engineers, and others vitally 
affected, such as state and city officials and home economics workers, 
resulted in the appointment of a committee of ten composed of one 
mayor, one geologist, two public utihty commissioners, an engineer, 
four gas officials, and a representative of the American Home Economics 
Association, with the Director of the fiurcauof Mines acting as chairman. 
One of the ffi-st acts of the Bureau of Mines was the appointment of a 
home economics worker, specializing in the domestic use of natural gas. 
to go into the field. 

The committee was divided into sub-committees to investigate the 
losses and problems of production, transmission, and utilization. The 
recommendations as the result of this work have been adopted by the 
public utilities commissions of the several natural gas using states. 
Through these commissions, an effort will be made to eliminate the 
great wastes, especially the great home wastes of natural gas in the very 
low set burner range with solid top and the coal stove with gas burner 
attachment, and to create a demand for all efficient appliances. 

Since the Bureau of Mines has but one worker in the field it asks the 
great group of women working on home problems to carry the informa- 
tion in regard to gas conservation to the many homes that need it. 

' Brief summary of a paper presented at the Thirteenth Annual Meeting of the Ameri- 
can Home Economics Association, Colorado Springs, June, 1920. 



1920] THE EXTENSION SPECIALIST ANT) FIELD WORK 459 

THE RELATION OF THE EXTENSION SPECIALIST TO FIELD 
WORK' 

NINA B. CRIGLER 
Exlension Dimsion, University of Illinois 

Any specialist in projecting her work throughout the state should have 
in mind a definite program of work that can be presented in a clear and 
tangible manner to the county home adviser, to the people who direct 
the enterprise, and to the individuals in their homes. 

The problem of feeding the family needs, today, even more attention 
than ever before. Feeding the family must be carried on correctly, that 
is, according to scientific and economic principles, and in this day of 
efficiency it should be done in the minimum time with the least expendi- 
ture of energy and money. While feeding the family is only one of the 
series of occupations in the home, it is one of the most important, since the 
health of the family, the happiness of the family, and the efficiency of the 
family are largely dependent upon the amount and kind of food served. 

The launching of the meal planning project is not as diflicult as it has 
seemed to some, and the carrying on of the special work or the following 
up and reporting of the project is possible when a suggestive scheme is 
printed and ready for distribution. Two things are necessary besides a 
definite plan to make a project workable in any county: an instruction 
blank, such as the P'ood Calendar;^ a follow-up blank such as a monthly 
food calendar summary sheet. 

The Food Calendar, prepared at the University of Illinois last fall, 
ser\^es throughout the state as an instructional blank. The calendar 
was compiled to furnish a means or a method for "getting over" subject 
matter — fundamental, scientific, and economic principles which have 
been in print for some time and thoroughly distributed but not always 
read. The food calendar is made up of two distinctive features. The 
right-hand portion of each page is devoted exclusively to subject mat- 
ter, and, because this portion of the instructional blank is strictly edu- 
cational, each of the thirty-one pages is quite dilTerent though each page 
is not a unit unto itself. 

' Presented at the Thirteenth Annual Meeting of the .Vmerican Home Economics .Asso- 
ciation, Colorado Springs, June, 1920. 

- See page 461 for reproduction of one page of the Food Calendar. 



460 THE JOURNAL OK HOME ECONOMICS (October 

The following grouping was planned : 4 pages to food programs, choice, 
selection, and meal building; 4 pages to weights and measures, time 
tables for cooking, and temperatures; 3 pages to proportions; 4 pages to 
the school lunch; 5 pages to milk and its products; 4 pages to variety in 
the preparation of four simple foods; 5 pages to food requirements, ade- 
quate meals for adult and child, corrective menus, and feeding the 
sick; 1 page to the arithmetic of menu making; 1 page to "ser\nng is a 
part of the meal." 

Since feeding the family is at least as important as other occupations 
and the time required to select, prepare, and ser\-e the meals for the 
average family is greater than that necessary for any other phase of 
home making, the left-hand portion of the calendar is constructed to 
make record keeping and reporting as easy as possible for the busy house- 
keeper and to require a minimum amount of writing. The standard is 
constantly before her in a graphic form so that she can see whether or 
not she meets the standard or falls short. If the latter, she can make any 
necessary changes and more nearly approach the standard from day to 
day. The food chart will help her whether she ever reports what she 
does or not. 

The plan of procedure is very simple. "To use the food calendar, 
place a check opposite the food served for breakfast in the first column, 
for dinner in the second column, for supper or lunch in the third column." 
A child can use the calendar as readily as an adult. To the child par- 
ticularly it is a game and because of the story it tells it becomes fasd- 
nating to the checker. The revelation is this: "WTien you use the 
food calendar you will be able to see at a glance whether you are omitting 
one of the five food groups from your diet, whether you are neglecting one. 
or whether you are over-emphasizing one." The amount of food you 
need from each group can be easily understood and calculated by study- 
ing page 30, "The Arithmetic of Alenu Making." How to use the food 
chart may be reduced to a formula with a proof. There are two steps 
to this formula and each step is incomplete without the other. 

The first step of the formula: "All five groups should be represented 
in the diet every day." The ration for the day instead of the single meal 
is considered as a unit. To the busy housewife this has a decided 
advantage over the balanced meal. 

The second step of the formula: "In selecting the foods for the day's 
ration, select them from the difi'erent groups and in the following pro- 
portions: 1 from group I; 1 from group II; 1 from group III, or 2 from 



1920] 



THE EXTENSION SPECIALIST AND FIELD WORK 



461 



FOOD C.\LENDAR 

D.ULY Record Month Day 4 

All Fm; Groups should be represented in the diet Every Day 



Groxip I 

Foods 

characterized 

by 

mineral 

substances 

and 

organic 

acids 



Group II 

Foods 

characterized 

by 

protein 



Group III 
Foods 

characterized 
by 

Starch 



Group IV 

Foods 

characterized 

by 

sugar 



Group V 

Foods 

characterized 

by 

fats 



Spinach or lettuce 

Peas or string beans. . 

Tomatoes 

Turnips or carrots. . . . 
Cabbage or onions. . . . 

Other vegetables 

Apples or pears 

Oranges or grapefruit. 

Other fruit 

Berries 

Fruit gelatin 



Lean meats 

Poultry 

Fish 

Oysters 

Milk 

Cheese 

Eggs 

Dried legumes — 

Nuts 

Cocoa (beverage) . 

Custard 

Ice cream 



Flour or meal mixtures. 

Bread 

Crackers 

Macaroni 

Rice 

Tapioca 

Cereal breakfast foods. . 

Other cereal food 

Potatoes 



Sirup 

Honey 

Preserves. .. 

Jellies 

Dried fruits. 

Candy 

Sugar 

Frozen ices. . 



Butter 

Cream 

Lard 

Salt pork 

Bacon 

Chocolate 

Vegetable oils. 



Coffee. 
Tea... 



LorS 



Building a Meal 
Five things to remember: 

(1) That each food group in- 
cludes expensive foods and 
cheap foods. Expensive foods 
are usuallj' chosen for their 
p.irlicular flavor or texture. 
Be reasonable and sane in 
your selection. Do you wish 
to pay for flavor, for texture, 
or for food value? 



(2) That you may substitute 
one food for another in the 
same group; that is, fruits for 
vegetables, fish for eggs, 
cream for butter. 



(3) That if you wish to buy 
cheap fuel foods, you should 
select them from the cereal 
group: com meal, grits, hom- 
iny, and oat-meal. The other 
food groups furnish fuel also, 
but the starch, sugar, and fat 
groups are those on which we 
depend most for fuel in our 
diet. 

(4) That a well-rounded diet 
includes the building foods 
(Group II). Meat, fish, eggs, 
etc., are more valuable as 
tissue builders than as fuel 
foods, although they are cap- 
able also of producing both 
heat and energy. 

(5) That when building meals, 
all three meals should be 
carefully planned each day 
on the basis of a two-day or 
a week meal program. 
Emergency changes may be 
necessary — in which case con- 
sult the calendar for substi- 
tutes and suggestions. 



Breakfast — B Dinner — D Lunch — L Supper — S 
Name Address 



462 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Octobcr 

group III; 1 from group IV, or none from group IV; no more from group 
V than from group I, except when butter and cream are used in small 
amounts two or three times during the day." 

To prove the formula, count the number of checks found in each of the 
five groups for the day. Take the number of checks found in group II 
as an indicator and the checks in the other four groups should tally with 
the second step in the formula. For example, when group II has 5 
checks, the number "5" is taken as the indicator, and the number of 
checks in the other groups should approximate 5. That is: 5 from group 
II; 5 from group I; 5 from group III, 5 from group IV, or 10 from 
groups III and IV, distributing this number at choice, as 7 from III and 
3 from IV; 5, 6, or 7 from group V. 

The county home adviser carrying on a project in her lield must 
furnish a means for follow-up work or some method of keeping up with 
the groups of individuals or the individual who has undertaken to fol- 
low the project. This may be done by distributing the instructional 
blanks. 

The food chart furnishes the device for follow-up work. The indi- 
vidual checks the food chart, understands in part, diagnoses or analyzes 
the case in so far as she is able, and then carries the calendar to the meet- 
ings or to the office of the county home adviser, or sends it to the county 
office for comments, suggestions, or criticisms. This she does for her 
own development, and it promotes and stimulates further study and a 
willingness to actually do the thing in the home, thus making the project 
a real home demonstration. 

When is the lo^cal time to introduce an instructional blank in the 
program of work? Vv'hen the spcciaHst and the ad\dser have (a) studied 
it, (b) believed in it, (c) tried it out, (d) seen the possibilities in it for 
presenting many different phases of food work, study work, or project 
work, (c) made a definite plan of work or procedure lasting from two to six 
months, or possibly two years, (f) interpreted the blank into words which 
are clearly understood by the individuals in the homes, (g) made a prac- 
tical, adaptable, and useful project for the individual in the home, (h) 
conducted preliminary work other than publicity. This type of prelim- 
inary work is carried on by the working force of the county or 
community. 

To further the work of a program or to launch a project, preliminary 
work is essential. The development of a program of work depends 
upon a plan of work, the manner of carrying it on, and reporting. This 



1920] THE EXTENSION SPECIALIST AND FIELD WORK 463 

may be accomplished by conferences of the adviser with the specialist, 
with the executive committee, and with the advisory council of the 
county; the adviser and the speciaHst holding specially called confer- 
ences with committees and holding open schools in the county. 

Therefore the preliminary work is most important. One county has 
accompHshed more in four months (two months devoted exclusively to 
preliminary work, two months to launching the program of work carrying 
it out or following it up) than other counties which have spent six to nine 
months. The county home adviser should plan the preKminary work 
with the specialist, since the actual doing is based upon the instruc- 
tional blank and the report blank which have been formulated by the 
specialist. 

The follow-up work is possible in any county in Illinois, since in the 
oiEce of each of the county home advisers in the state and in the state 
ofBce there are lists including the names and addresses of all who have 
enrolled in the project or who have purchased calendars. 

Follow-up work has been carried on in various counties in four differ- 
ent ways: through regular and special meetings; by questionnaires; by 
round table discussions and individual conferences in the office of the 
county home adviser; and by exchange of leaders from one unit to 
another or by one leader serving many units. 

Reporting of project work by the county home ad\-iser to the state 
office may be done by the committee reporting to the adviser, as a result 
of a questionnaire; by the adviser reporting, using the food calendar 
summary sheet; by the adviser in her monthly report to the state 
office. 

The results reported from the meal planning projects include changes 
in diet (food habits), improved health, saving of time in preparation of 
food, conserving of energy, change in manner of selecting food for meals, 
keener interest in feeding the family correctly, reduced cost of food. 

The instructional blank may be used through different types of meet- 
ings, with certain advantages and disadvantages for each: 

(1) Through single unit meetings. 

Advantages. This reaches a greater number of people but all are not 
seriously thinking or ready for hard work. 

Disadvantages. It is a form of entertainment. No preparation or 
preliminary work is possible except through newspaper announcements, 
letters, and bulletins. No results are available. There is no way to 
follow up or promote the project and manner of reporting. This type 
of meeting does not develop leadership. 



464 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Octobcr 

(2) Through county meetings held in five different places in the 
county. 

Advantages. This may reach a larf^c number of fairly interested 
people. 

Disadvantages. This type is a form of entertainment since no one 
feels the responsibility for furthering the project. This type of work 
will never encourage or develop kadcrship among the local women. 
This type will never develop home (k-monstrations. 

(3) Through county meetings held in two central places in the county. 
Advantages. This type is a representative meeting in that delegates 

from most of the units in the county attend one or more meetings. 
This type encourages serious thinking and a keen interest in the affairs 
of the home. 

(4) Through county meetings held in one central place in the county. 
Advantages. Delegates and one other person attend all the meetings. 

All units in the county are represented. Delegates serve as a county 
committee and plan the work for four to six months with the county 
home adviser. 

This type develops leadership, and the two-day conference with the 
county home adviser and the specialist gives the women "enough 
steam" to launch the project in the right way in the county. This type 
of meeting gives the delegates instruction in the use of the food chart or 
the instructional blank. This t>-pe of meeting is far reaching in that the 
influence which the delegates have in their own community is greater 
than that of the ordinary listener. This type of meeting encourages 
and strengthens the home demonstrations, the project moves more 
rapidly, and the results are more permanent. 

Disadvantages. Numbers attending the meetings are small; however, 
those in attendance are representative and come from all sections of 
the county and we have quality rather than quantity. 



EDITORIAL 

A Letter from the Office International, De L'Enseigneraent 
Menager, Fribourg (Suisse), to the Office of Home Economics 
United States Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. 

Fribourg, June 15, 1920. 
Dear Monsieur: 

Last March we sent to the members of the Federation of Allied Countries, 
a circular, in order to obtain their opinions on the subject of the organization 
of a new International Congress of Home Economics Instruction. 

We have received responses from all the countries of the Entente. 

From France. M. le Chanoine Dupin, almoner of the higher normal course 
of home economics instruction at Paris, teUs us that the French agree that a 
congress be organized among the nations allied to France or those remaining 
neutral during the war, and that they should meet at Strassbourg. He adds, 
with good reason, that questions of education are the last on which one should 
have to ask light from Germany, because in France one does not conceive of 
home economics education as a simple initiation into the things of practical 
life, but as a preparation of the woman for her triple r6Ie of wife, of mother, 
and of mistress of the house. 

Furthermore, M. Georges Goyau and Mme. Moll-Weiss approve also the 
idea of a new Congress and propose first Strassbourg, second Paris, as the 
seat. 

Mme. Delaage also desires this organization and proposes for it a practical 
character with the following program: Organization, Science, Work, on con- 
dition of restraining the powers of action and of leaving wide open the door 
to private initiative. 

From Italy. They propose Milan as the seat of the Congress, because, in 
this country, they recognize opportunely the development of the domestic 
and home economics sciences. They estimate that it should take place next 
autumn and they propose to have taken up there: 

1. How and when home economics instruction should be given to the daugh- 
ters of the people and in the higher primary schools? 

2. In what way it is necessary to organize the courses for the rational 
preparation of teachers of domestic sciences. That last question is greatly 
desired and of the highest importance for Italy. 

465 



466 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Octobcr 

From JloUand. Tlicy [)roi)osc Amsterdam as the seat of the Congress, 
because of its neutrality and of its advantageous situation. They projwse to 
consider there the following questions: 

1. How the home economics schools are conducted and how they existed 
during the war. 

2. Have they been supported by the stale or the people? 

3. How have the home economics schools adapted themselves to circum- 
stances and what scrxaces have they rendered to the governments and to 
the people? 

4. Have the government and the authorities appreciated these services 
and in what manner liave they shown it? 

5. What reforms would have to be carried out in home economics instruc- 
tion in order tliat it might conform in a lasting fashion to actual circumstances: 
(a) for the preparation of housekeepers; (b) for the preparation of assistant 
housekeepers; (c) for the preparation of servants; (d) for the preparation of 
domestic science teachers. 

6. In what measure the home economics schools can aid in the relief of 
social conditions from the point of view of housing, of food, of infant hygiene, 
of the simplification of housework, of expenditure and cooperative buying, of 
excessive prices, of the adulteration of food? 

7. Is it desirable or urgent that the govenmients procure assistance for 
home economics teachers? 

From Denmark. They claim that the organization of a new Congress is 
still premature on account of hard times and of the diiBculties of travel. 

Belgium considers very opportune and even urgent the organization of a 
new Congress in one of the allied countries, particularly Strassbourg, and 
not a town of Holland, for the Dutch are not friendly with the Belgians. 

In Belgium they foresee that they \vill have a new adjustment of the subject 
matter of home economics teaching and that it will be necessary to cut down 
because of the dearness of living, to foresee the scarcity of serv'ants and to 
organize their houses in such a way as to be able to do away with servants 
in a large mea.sure. Mile. Deleu proposes, further, to have taken up there: 

1. Wliat has been done in all countries during the war for the benefit of 
home economics teaching? 

2. Should this instruction be required in the lower and middle schools? 

3. Should not courses of domestic science be organized in the universities? 

4. Is it not necessary to attach a great deal of importance to the training 
of the teaching personnel of the schools of home economics? 

5. WTiat method ought to be adopted in order to make this teaching really 
useful? 

6. The method to adopt — individual, in groups, cooperative? 

7. Is it necessarj' to have a special department in each school for giving 
this instruction? What ought this department to be in the country' schools, 



1920] EDITORIAL 467 

in the city schools, for primary schools and the middle schools? What ought 
this department to be in the home economics normal schools? 

8. Would it not be useful to organize home economics courses for boys? 

9. A large number of parents do not appreciate this teaching; how convince 
them of the necessity of the teaching of home ecrinomics? 

10. The inspection of economic teaching; the duties of inspection. 

From Alsace. They are afraid that, even in 1921, it will be impossible to 
organize a new International Congress: hatred is still too bitter. 

In Switzerland, on the contrary, they iind that they will have an oppor- 
tunity from this time on to occupy themselves with preparation for a Congress. 
They suggest Switzerland as the seat, because this country lends itself better 
than any other to an international meeting. They would like to devote 
special attention to the schools of agricultural economics, the war having proved 
once more that it is necessary to stay in the country as much as possible, cul- 
tivating the earth. They propose to treat with equal importance the prac- 
tical teaching of domestic economy and housekeeping to the apprentices of 
different professions, of private work-shops, and of factories. 

To sum up, the great majority of competent people to whom our circular 
was sent, is unanimous in recognizing the importance of a new International 
Congress for 1921. It would be premature and insufSciently prepared for 
were it to be held in 1920. France and Belgium wish to have Strassbourg 
for the seat and, as a matter of fact, is not this city chosen as having a great 
many associations not only for Europe but also for America because of the 
proximity of the battlefields, and is it not a center which is easy to reach? 

This, my dear sir, is the situation in which the question of the future Inter- 
nationa! Congress of Home Economics Teaching stands. We are still await- 
ing propositions from Canada and from the United States. We hope that, in 
spite of the distance which separates us, they will not be slow and that the 
meeting at Colorado Springs, to which we wish the greatest success, will 
declare itself in favor of an international congress in 1921, in one of the coun- 
tries of the League of Nations. 

Finally, we wish to add that the war brought to an end the contributions 
of governments and of large societies, as well as the assessments of the mem- 
bers of the Federation. The Swiss Association alone has continued to remit 
to us our usual contribution, which has enabled our ofiSce to exist up to this 
time. 

Can you not obtain from your honorable Association a contribution and 
from your members the assessment of five francs a year? 

Be pleased to accept, my dear sir, the expression of our distinguished and 
very devoted sentiments. 

(Signed) L. N. Genoitx, 

Director. 



468 THE JOURNAL OK HOME ECONOMICS [Octobcr 

In response to this letter the Council of the American Home Economics 
Association at the meeting in Colorado Springs voted to send the Inter- 
national Oflke a contribution of $25.(X) and to urge the members of our 
Association to join as individuals by paying $1.00 a year. 

For more reasons than one it is desirable for us to unite whole heart- 
edly in this international movement. We need to know more about 
what other people are doing, both because of the service we can render 
and the help we shall ourselves receive. There is no better way to 
promote the international understanding, that is our surest protection 
against international differences, than to work together for a common 
cause. 

The Science Section arranged programs for three sessions at the 
annual meeting at Colorado Springs. At the meeting held on Saturday 
evening, Dr. Helen B. Thompson, acting as chairman of the section, 
presided. Olga Elifritz, of the Bureau of Mines, in her paper on Con- 
servation of Gas,' reported the work being done by the Bureau to aid in 
better utilization of the natural gas supply and called attention to the 
fact that literature on this subject may be obtained from the Bureau 
of Mines. The following paper, on Comparative Cost of Electricity and 
Gas, by Martha E. Dresslar, of the University of Washington, dealt 
particularly with the relative efficiency of various parts of the electric 
stove, and was illustrated by charts. 

Walter G. Sacket, of Colorado State Agricultural College, gave a 
report of experimental work done on Vinegar Fermentations. Solutions 
were given for many of the problems concerning home made vinegars. 
Alice Biester, of the University of Minnesota, reported a series of experi- 
ments deahng with the Effect of Manipulation and Storage upon the 
Keeping Qualities of Canned Vegetables. 

On Monday morning the main subject of the general session was nutri- 
tion. Miss Bevier presided and Dr. Agnes Fay Morgan of the Univer- 
sity of California gave a comprehensive sur\'ey of the Uterature deahng 
with European Experience on Low Diets. Dr. Helen B. Thompson of 
Kansas State Agricultural College reported extensive experimental data 
on the Effect of Alternate Periods of Suppression of Growth and Refeed- 
ing of Albino Mice. Dr. C. F. Langworthy led the discussion on nutri- 
tional problems which followed this meeting. 

'See page 458. 



1920] THE OPEN FORUM 469 

On Monday evening Dr. Morgan presided over the section meeting. 
Dr. Langworthy reported a series of experiments on The Digestibility 
of Raw Starch by Human Subjects. The results of these experiments 
are of interest to every teacher of foods, and are published in the current 
series of the Journal of Biological Chemistry. Dr. Langworthy also 
made a brief survey of the work done on Expenditure of Energy in 
Housework the results of which have been published in the June number 
of the American Journal of Physiology. 

A paper on The Preparation of Inulin from French Artichokes was 
presented by Anna W. Williams, of the University of California. 

Dr. Minna C. Denton, of the OfSce of Home Economics, gave experi- 
mental results on the Economical Management of the Gas Range, and 
also on Grainy Fats versus Creamy Fats in Cake and Pastry. 

AHce Biester reported results of experiments on The Sweetening Pow- 
ers of Various Sugars. 

At the close of the meeting the following nominations were made and 
accepted: Chairman of the Section, Dr. Minna C. Denton; Secretary, 
Margaret Sawyer. A motion was made and carried that a Research 
Clearing House Committee be appointed, and the chair was im powered 
to appoint such a committee. A motion was made and carried to refer 
the proposed change of the section name to the Council. 

Submitted by 

Anna W. Williams. 

THE OPEN FORM 

Some Observations on Food and Other Conditions in Labrador. — 

Dr. Vivia B. Appleton, representing the Bureau of Social Education 
of the National Board of the Y. W. C. A., has been for several months in 
Forteau, the Association havdng asked Dr. and Mrs. Grenfell to desig- 
nate how she could render the greatest service to their mission field for 
the period during which the Y. W. C. A. was able to place her in Labra- 
dor. The need seemed particularly great at Forteau, since the resident 
nurse, after several years of continuous service, had returned to England 
for six months vacation. 

Dr. Appleton had with her an assistant, Marjorie Jackson, a trained 
Social Worker, formerly district supervisor in Red Cross Home Service in 
Chicago who was also furnished by the Y. W. C. A., and could supplement 
the work in health education by giving practical instruction to women 



470 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS (October 

and girls in the homes they have nsitcd along the coast. They have 
traveled by dog sled and have accomplished much important and inter- 
esting work in the nine months which they have spent in Forteau. 
Special attention is being given to foods in relation to health and also 
to the better use of the local food supply. 

The following excerpts from a letter recently received from Dr. Apple- 
ton are published through the courtesy of the Bureau of Social Education 
of the National Board of the Y. W. C. A. 

The letter and bulletins came all together, by the winter mail via Quebec 
by dog team, and made an inspiring mail indeed when I returned from Battle 
Harbor the end of March — the first mail smce early December. All this new 
interest gave just the inspiration we needed for our spring program and we 
got up a "Nutrition Conference" the end of AprO, inviting delegates from all 
along the coast. 

Navigation closed December eighth. There w£is a considerable supply of 
food on the coast but vegetables grew scarcer as spring approached. The 
shiftless went on a diet of bread and tea sometime in February, the thrifty 
had vegetables perhaps until sometime in April. Ner\'ous break-downs 
increased after the end of March. Scurvy and stomatitis came late in April 
but there are few cases. Night blindness has been common since April and 
lately I have seen a whole epidemic of beriberi across the Straits. In rela- 
tion to all these, I have tried to collect as much data as possible on the rela- 
tion to diet. Some of it is suggestive and much very confusing. As soon 
as I have time, I shall hope to get it in more tangible form. 

Cod livers are considered a delicacy during the summer. The people save 
very little oil for themselves for the winter. 

Seal meat is eaten for a few weeks at this season of the year and I am 
encouraging the use of seal livers also. 

I got an Alexander plant' for you yesterday. We have not eaten it yet 
as it is scarce but have eaten the "dock" as greens. 

'This and other matters pertaining to foods and food supplies had been discussed with 
Dr. Appleton before she left for her work. The specimen of .■Mexandcr, which <he men- 
tions, arrived in good condition. This plant has had some use in Labrador as a pot herb. 
The use of the young shoots for this purpose is mentioned in L. C. R. Cameron's "Wild 
Foods of Great Britain," Published by George Routledge and Sons, Ltd., London (1917). 
P. 74. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 

HOME ECONOMICS SECTION, ASSOCIATION LAND-GRANT COLLEGES' 
Springfield, Mass., October 20 and 21 
wednesday, 9 a.m. 

Organization Among Fann Women — Methods used to Develop Leadership: 

Chainnan: Abby Marlatt, University of Wisconsin 

Policies in the South, Ola Powell, States Relations Service, South 

Rural School Supervisors, Women's Clubs, and County Seat Short Courses 
Mrs. Nellie Kedzie Jones, University of Wisconsin 

Women's Home Bureaus, Juliet Lita Bain, State Leader Extension, Illinois 

Farm Bureaus, Neal Knowles, State Leader, Iowa 

Discussion 
State Policies in Measuring Home Demonstration Work in Financial Terms 

Agnes Ellen Harris, States Relations Service, North and West 
Relation of Boys' and Girls' Club Work to Smith Hughes Work 

Gertrude Warren, States Relations Service, Washington, D. C. 

.\nna Richardson, Federal Board for Vocational Education 
Discussion, Nancy McNeal, Boys' and Girls' Club Work, Cornell University 

«-EDNESDAY, 1:30 P.M. 

Cooperation Between Home Economics Extension Program and Other Projects: 

Chairman: Bess Rowe, State Leader of Extension, Montana 

Cooperation with Public Health Nurse, Margaret Sawj-er, American Red Cross 

Cooperation with Public or Private Schools, Treva Kauffman 

Cooperation with Commercial Projects, Robert .Allen, Research Dept., Ward Baking Co. 
The Research Worker: 

Courses Pre-Requisite, Dr. Helen Thompson, Agr. College, Manhattan, Kansas 

Need for Research in Home Economics, Dr. Alice Blood, Simmons College 

Legislation, Edna WTaite, Merrill-Palmer School of Homemaking 

TEinjSDAV, 9 A.M. 

Policies in Instructional Courses — Training for Special Fields: 

Home Demonstration Agents — Round Table, Marie Sayles, Chairman 

Scope of Subject in College Courses, Martha Van Rensselaer, Cornell University 

Supervised Field Practice, Discussion by State Leaders 

Round Table, Dean Sarah Louise Arnold, Simmons College, Chairman 
Vocational Homemaking: 

Scope of Subject in Training Courses, Anna Richardson 

Practical Homemaking Experience: how supervised — how tested 

Discussion by State Leaders 

Child Welfare Work, Mrs. Ira Couch Wood, Elizabeth McCormick Fund, Chicago 
Institutional Economics: 

Special Majors (subject matter), Mildred Weigley, University of Minnesota 

Supervised Post-Graduate Experience, Octavia Hall, Peter Bent Brigham Hospital 

'There will be a meeting of the Council of the .\. H. E. A. at 7:30 Wednesday evening. 

471 



472 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [Octobcr 

AlWUAL MEETING OF THE AMERICAN DIETETIC ASSOCIATION 
Hotel McAlpin, New I'ori, Oclober 25-2S, 1920 



Research in Dietetics, Hilda Croll, Woman's Medical College, Philadelphia 
Horning Sasion: Meeting of eieculive committee 
Aflernoon Sesiion: Meeting of section on Administrative Work 
Chairman: Mabel C. Little, Hospital DIctitLin, Norwalk, Ohio 
General Subject: To What Extent can Mechanical Equipment Replace Employes? 
College Dormitory, Mrs. Elizabeth Grider, Cornell University 
College Dining Room, Cora Colbum, University of Chicago 
General Subject: Menu Making— its economic aspect 
Dormitory, Elsie Leonard, University of Wisconsin 
Hospital, Marguerite Deavcr, Mt. Sinai Hospital, Cleveland 
Cafeteria, Emma Baker, Whittier Hall, Teachers College 

Miss Smith, War Risk Bureau Cafeteria, Washington, D. C. 
Economical Buying for the Institution 
Evening Session: 

Address of Welcome by the President, Lulu Graves, Cornell University 
Address, Dr. Alonzo E. Taylor, University of Pennsylvania 

TUI:SDAY 

Morning Session: 

Marketing, Susannah Usher, Boston 

Application of Business Principles to the Organization of Institutions 

Training for Positions in Cafeterias, Roland WTiite, The Colonnade Co., Cleveland 
Aflernoon Session: Meeting of Section on Social Service 

Chairman: Blanche M. Joseph, Field Dietitian, Michael Reese Hospital, Chicago 

The Supervising Dietitian in State Institutions, Theresa A. Clough, Springfield, 111. 

Social Service in Dietetics, Fairfax T. Proudfit, University of Tennessee 
Evening Session: 

Diet and Dentition, Dr. W. J. Gies, Columbia University 

The Dietitian in Public Health Work, Dr. E. A. Peterson, .\merican Red Cross 

Diet and the War, Mrs. Mary de Garmo Brj-an 

WEDNESDAY 

Morning Session: 

Address, Dr. Katherine Bement Davis, General Secretary, Bureau of Social Hygiene 

Address, Emma Gunther, Teachers College 

Research in Di'etetics, Hilda Croll, Woman's Medical College, Philadelphia 

Aflernoon Session: Meeting of Section on Teaching 
Chairman : Katharine Fisher, Teachers College 

Dietetics for Nurses, Lenna F. Cooper, Battle Creek Sanitarium 

Teaching Dietetics to Nurses, Marion Peterson, Swedish Hospital, Minneapolis 

Review of Literature on Dietetics, Dr. Ruth Wheeler, Goucher College, Baltimore 

Evening Session: 

Address, Sarah Louise Arnold, Dean of Simmons College, Boston 
Some Dietetic Problems of Infancy and Childhood, Dr. Roger Dennett, Assistant Pttv 
fessor in the Diseases of Children, Post Graduate Hospital, New York 

THTRSDAY 

Morning Session: (At Teachers College) 

Economic Aspects of Buying Meats, John H. Kelley, .\rthur Dorr Markets, Boston 



V'OL. Xn, No 11 November, 1920 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemaking, Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

Mbs. Auce p. Nobton, Editor Keturah E. Baldwin, Busiruss Editor 

Editorial Board 
Mrs. Mary H. Abel C. F. Langworthv Auy Daniels Roth Wheeler Violet Ryley 

Ex-OJicio Members— Mm^ E. Sweeny, President American Home Economics AssodatiOD 
NoLA Treat, Chairman Institution Economics Section 
Minna Denton. Chairman Science Section 
Ola Powell, Chairman £xten^ion Education Section 
Lillian Peek, Chairman Textile Section 

Collaborators — The Officers, Members of the Council, and Advisors 



CONTENTS 

Vocational Education in Ho^^E Economics — Part-Time Schools and Classes 

Adelaide Steele Baylor 473 

Food Accessory Factors in Relation to the Teeth Percy R. Howe, D.D.S. 482 

Standardized Tests IN Textiles AND Clothing . Mahel B. Trilling and Florence Williams 486 

A Study of Clothing Purchasing Habits Ethel L. Phelps 491 

Parents' Meetings in the New York Schools Agnes Daley 496 

Fifteen Points of a Professional Creed 498 

Student Contributions 

Home Economics Day Maida Johnson 499 

For the Homemaker 

The Use of Maltose Sirup for Candy Making 501 

The Value of an Allowance 503 

Cost of Living in Canada Norman S. Rankin 504 

Music in the Home 505 

Editorial 507 

The Open Forum 508 

Books and Literature 513 

News from the Field 515 



The Joubnal of Houe Econouics is published monthly by the American Home Economics Association- 
»2.0« A YEAR. FOREIGN $2.35. CANADIAN $2.20. SINGLE COPIES 2i CENTS 

nittanccs should be sent by Check, Express Order or Postal Money Order, payable to the 
ssociation. Currency unless mailed in a registered letter is at the sender's risk. 

NOTICE. When payment is made by check no receipt will be sent unless requested. 

CHANGE IN ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should he sent two weeks before the date of issue on which 
the change is to take eiJect. The subscriber's Old Address should be clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 1211 Cathedral St., Baltimore, Md. 

The Journas, or Houe Econouics is on sale at John Wanamaker's, rbiladelphia: The Old Corner Book Store, Boston; 
A. C. McClurg's, Chicago; Baltimore News Company, Baltimore; Woodward and Lothrop, Washington. 



JOVKSAl OF IIOUE KTnvfiKK v— 4/fi ; AT/'.n/f V7S- 




■i5iA; 




THE KEYSTONE 
OF GOOD BAKING 

Your biscuits, rolls, gems anrl oilier thiinly 
bread-stuffs con be no better tliiiii ibc bak- 
ing powder with which they are mode. 
Good bilking powder is the leavening tigent 
that makes them light ai.d digestible. It is 
the keystone in the making of api;elizing, 
wholesome cake, biscuits, muffins, etc. 

Of course, you want only the best of bak- 
ing powder, and this is always assured 
when you use 

ROYAL 

Baking Powder 



In writing advertisers, please mention Journal of Home Economics 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. XII NOVEMBER, 1920 No. 11 

VOCATIONAL EDUCATION IN HOME ECONOMICS— PART- 
TIME SCHOOLS AND CLASSES' 

ADELAIDE STEELE BAYLOR 
Federal Agent for Home Economics, Washington, D. C. 

V^ocational education in home economics may best be tentatively 
defined, at this stage in its development, from the following viewpoints: 

1. The interpretation of the law which gave the term general use. 

2. The purpose of the work as expressed in the term "vocational." 

3. Its method of instruction. 

4. The group of people for whom it is intended. 

The law limits vocational home economics, in terms of time, age of 
pupils, administration-, grade of work, and use of funds. In the all-day 
school one-half of the time must be given to vocational subjects; in the 
part-time schools instruction must continue for 144 hours. All pupils 
must have reached their fourteenth birthday or have the maturity of 
pupils who are that age. The schools and classes must be under public 
control. The work must be of less than college grade, and all federal 
funds must be matched by state or local funds. 

From the standpoint of purpose the word "vocational" really defines 
itself as training for the vocation of homemaking. General educa- 
tion, culture, information, skill, are more remote ends; the definite pur- 
pose as declared by the content of the term itself is specifically that of 
training for a vocation, and that vocation the one of homemaking. 

In its method, vocational home economics works from without into the 
school room by seeking to discover the information and various skills 

' Presented at the Thirteenth Annu.il Meeting of the American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation, Colorado Springs, June, 1920. 

473 



474 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

necessary to successful homemaking, through an analysis of the "home- 
maker's jol)," made from the homcmaker's viewpoint, and her actual 
duties, rather than based on a theory evolved within four walls, remote 
from the actual vocation itself. 

The analysis of the job is one of the fundamental steps in setting up a 
program for vocational education, and was first started in trade and 
industry. Steps have since been taken to adapt this scheme to agri- 
culture, and still more recently, a beginning in its adaptation to 
the vocation of homemaking, through the work of Zella E. Bigelow, 
then Special Assistant in Home Economics, Federal Hoard for \'ocational 
Education. 

The aim of job analysis is to find and to list all of the content of a 
given activity that functions. In other words, it is a classified deter- 
mination of the job content; it determines what is to be "put over" to 
the learner; it answers the question, "What do we need to know to do 
the job effectively;" and is expressed in a modification of Richard's 
formula, £ = M + (T & /), in which E represents equipment, skill, 
and knowledge required for efficient service in the trade to be taught, 
Af represents manipulative skill required either with tools or in the con- 
trol of machines, T represents knowledge of the trade technical content 
of the particular occupation in question, and / represents knowledge of 
the general trade content which can be shown to function directly in 
industrial efliciency. 

The analysis of the job serves: (1) as a checking list for the teacher, 
preventing the omission of important things; (2) as a checking list for 
students; (3) to show what functions; and (4) to show what should be 
taught and what should be told, or to distinguish between instruction and 
information. It also aids in discovering what should be taught and what 
can best be learned "on the job." 

In its method, vocational home economics further endeavors to tie up 
the instruction in the school with that of the home by emphasizing the 
value of the home project, and seeking the active cooperation of the 
mothers, that the homes may be used as laboratories in supplementing 
the work of the school. 

By the home project method the learner is brought into contact with 
the vocation, a very essential condition in any vocational work. It 
would be a strange education that trained a plumber and gave him no 
contact with his job, under normal conditions, or a carpenter who worked 
wholly with models and artificial devices and never on a real construction 
itself. 



1920] VOCATIONAL EDUCATION IN HOME ECONOMICS 475 

Through the home project a supervised, directed piece of work is 
done under normal home conditions. Thus contact with the vocation 
s secured. It calls into play skill and information acquired in the 
school, and demands new skills and information, in the utilization of 
which the student must exercise both judgment and initiative. 

A plan for the supervision of home projects, and the establishment of 
tests to evaluate results of such work are still to be developed. This 
lack is an obstacle, at the present time, to the success of this method. 

From the standpoint of groups to be reached, vocational education 
in home economics steps out of the common school practice of receiving 
in a grade only such pupils as have covered all the work in the preceding 
grades, and opens its doors to all girls and women, no matter what the 
age, condition, and previous education, who can profit by this type of 
instruction. 

While opportunity is offered for electives, vocational education 
emphasizes, in addition to home economics subjects, the teachmg of 
civics, EngUsh, and applied science and art, from the study of which 
great benefit may be derived, without acquaintance with a large 
number of prerequisites. 

In order to carry out the vocational scheme for education in home eco- 
nomics, the organization and administration of certain types of schools 
and classes are necessary, and these are enumerated here in the order, 
as I conceive it, of their importance for vocational education in home 
economics: 

1. The part-time school designed for girls 14 years of age and above, 
who can not attend the full school time either because they are employed 
in a wage-earning pursuit or are needed at home. 

2. Evening classes for young homemakers and prospective home- 
makers. 

3. All-day classes, which continue the full school day during the 
school year. 

4. Evening schools in urban communities for mature homemakers. 

5. Evening schools in rural communities for mature homemakers. 
The discussion of types in this paper will be limited to the part-time 

classes and schools, the importance of which in a program of vocational 
education was so well recognized in the enactment of the Federal Law 
for Vocational Education that provision was made for at least one- 
third of the Trade and Industry fund to be spent on this type of school. 
This stimulus was needed, since part-time classes are often most diflicult 



476 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

to initiate, in that they require, for many groups, the cooperation of 
employers who are unwilling for employees to be pursuing on employ- 
ment time any form of education that does not seem to contribute 
directly to wage-earning power. 

Compulsory education legislation, then, is almost a necessity for es- 
tablishing successful part-time work, and the spread of such state legis- 
lation in the past two years, since the enactment of the Federal Law for 
Vocational Education, has been almost phenomenal. In 1917 only two 
states in the Union had compulsory part-time laws; at the present time 
19 states have compulsory part-time laws, ten of these being enacted in 
1919 and 7 in 1920. Six of these 19 are Pacific Coast States, four West 
Central States, five East Central States, and four Eastern States. 
Every section, then, with the exception of the South, is represented in 
the group of states with compulsory part-time laws, and the delay there 
no doubt is due to the fact that general compulsory' education laws in the 
Southern States are just becoming effective and such laws logically 
precede those for part-time education. 

In the year 1918-19, 27 part-time schools in home economics, enrolling 
4278 pupils and employing 74 teachers, were reimbursed from federal 
funds, while in 1919-20, 325 part-time schools in home economics, 
enrolling 10,913 pupils and employing 313 teachers, were reimbursed 
from federal funds. This remarkable increase in the number of schools 
in so short a space of time is no doubt due in large measure to the 
enactment of the compulsory part-time laws, thus overcoming the diffi- 
culty of organizing this type of school without such laws. 

There are three types of part-time schools in which home economics 
may be taught, each one of which must continue for at least 144 hours 
during the school year, usually distributed on a basis of four hours a 
week for 36 weeks. 

a. General continuation classes or schools, in which less than 50 per 
cent of the time is given to home economics subjects, and the remainder 
to such general subjects as will promote the ci\ic and vocational intelli- 
gence of the pupils. These schools are classified under Trade and In- 
dustry, and reimbursement is made from that fimd. Such classes are 
designed especially for girls from 14 to 16 or 17 years of age. 

b. Part-time home economics classes in which 50 per cent, or more, 
but not all of the time is given to home economics subjects, and the 
remainder devoted to general education subjects. These classes will 
reach girls 14 to 18 years of age. 



1920] VOCATIONAL EDUCATION IN HOME ECONOMICS 477 

c. Part-time home economics classes in which all the time is given to 
home economics subjects. The work here is arranged in a sequence of 
short units and may deal with any phases of homemaking. Many 
girls from 16 to 20 years of age may benefit especially by these classes. 

The pupils found in the part-time classes have dropped out of school 
at various stages of their educational career, less frequently from eco- 
nomic pressure than from a distaste for the study and discipline to which 
they have been subject. They have had varied experiences in the 
worlds of employment and non-employment, and often look with grave 
suspicion on the school they are forced to attend. 

The younger groups are found in the general continuation schools, 
where the aim is to promote the greatly needed civic and vocational 
intelligence of the American child. These young people present a very 
distinct problem with their limited education and fairly large experi- 
ence in the world of aiTairs, therefore the program that meets their 
needs is a unique and special one. For this reason great care is neces- 
sary that the school does not follow too closely the lines of general 
education in the public schools or vocational education in the trade 
preparatory and trade extension classes. 

Quoting from Mrs. Mary Eastwood of the William Penn High School, 
Philadelphia, in a paper read before the Educational Congress in Har- 
risburg, November 17 to 22, 1919: "These children expect much as a 
result of the operation of the law and should not be disappointed. They 
feel that in giving eight of their working hours to school instruction they 
will be greatly handicapped in advancement in industry unless the sub- 
jects are of real value to them Those paid for piece 

work object, for their pay envelope is smaller by $1.00 to $2.50 per 
week; even an additional carfare used in coming to school is mentioned 
as an inconvenience. Some think advancement in their work and in- 
crease of salary less possible because of eight hours' absence from work." 

Such subjects as civics, English, arithmetic, vocational intelligence, 
commercial subjects, shop work, and home economics, when rightly 
presented, make a strong general continuation school program. 

If the hours are eight per week, the following distribution of time to 
subjects is found successful: 

Approximately 60 minutes to English and civics respectively; 90 min- 
utes to physiology, hygiene and sanitation; 45 minutes to arithmetic; 
45 minutes to geography; 90 minutes to vocational guidance; and 90 
minutes to home economics. The time element, of course, will be varied 
to meet the needs of individual pupils and groups. 



478 THK JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

Reimbursement for such a program would be made from the Trade 
and Industries fund, as for any part-time program where home econom- 
ics instruction consumes less than 50 per cent of the time. 

The home economics extension type, with part of the time given to 
other subjects but with 50 per cent or more of the time devoted to 
home economics subjects, reaches a somewhat older group of girls and 
young women whose general education has been more extended or for 
whom marriage is not remote. 

On an 8 hour a week basis for this group at least 4 hours would be given 
to home economics subjects with a suggestive equitable distribution of 
the remainder of the 8 hours as follows: physiology, hygiene and sanita- 
tion, 60 mins.; community civics, 60 mins. ; English, 45 mins. ; arithmetic 
or geography, 45 mins.; electives, 30 mins. 

The other type of home economics extension classes is one in which 
the entire time is given to home economics subjects. This reaches a 
group of prospective brides, young homemakers, girls in the wage earn- 
ing field or at home, who want to center their time and attention 
for a few hours a week on such subjects only as train directly for 
homemaking. 

The content of the homemaking courses in these part-time schools 
should be close to the immediate needs of the indi\idual girl. 

For the younger groups and those for whom marriage is remote, the 
content should center upon their present food, clothing, and shelter 
needs; their present expenditures in these lines and how these can be 
modified to better meet their needs and incomes; how and where to pur- 
chase the most wholesome meals at least expense; what to prepare at 
home and how best to do this; how to select, purchase, wear, care for, 
and repair all clothing, including hats, shoes, hose, and gloves; available 
and suitable houses or rooms in the community, for family or indi- 
vidual use, sanitary and with rentals within their income. 

There is probably not a single community that can not furnish girls 
and young women for these part-time classes, although the school records 
are still as a rule very incomplete on the whereabouts of girls no longer 
on their lists. 

The survey to secure data on community needs for education of vari- 
ous types has up to this time been a formal expensive piece of work cover- 
ing a large field and often disappointing in the returns to the community. 
The local participants in the survey have either failed to appreciate their 
responsibility on the constructive side, been unable to secure the coop- 
eration of the commimity in setting up a program, or have removed to 



1920] VOCATIONAL EDUCATION IN HOME ECONOMICS 479 

other fields leaving the reorganization of the schools along the line of 
survey recommendations to a successor who is either not in sympathy 
with the proposed changes or who becomes so submerged with other 
problems in the new administration as to let the survey program drop 
entirely out of sight. Plans for informal preliminary surveys for small 
communities or sections of large communities are greatly needed. Such 
survey may not go further than the organization of a good school attend- 
ance department, cooperation with the school assessors to secure certain 
data on the enumeration blanks, a tabulation of material already compiled 
by different departments and organizations in the state or community. 

A committee was appointed in May, at the Denver Regional Confer- 
ence of the Federal Board for Vocational Education, to develop ques- 
tionnaires and other necessary forms for such a survey. This committee 
is working in cooperation with a national committee appointed at the 
National Conference at Chicago to work on the community survey. Alice 
Loomis, State Supervisor of Home Economics, Lincoln, Nebraska, is 
chairman of both committees. 

The location of the plant for part-time classes, that it may be easily 
accessible and thus save time and money, is very important. The 
place may be a school, factory, store, residence or other building that is 
adaptable to such classes, and where the necessary equipment is available. 

In organizing the subject matter for instruction in the part-time 
schools, the short unit course is becoming more and more the accepted 
form. Such a course is well adapted to the instruction of the groups 
found in part-time classes. It completes a single problem, eliminates use- 
less matter, is definite and yet flexible, appeals to people with limited 
time, centers attention on the individual rather than the group, stimu- 
lates regular attendance, gives definite instruction to a student as he needs 
it and instruction that can be used at once. Some of the essentials 
of a good short unit course arc that it shall be reasonably complete within 
itself, related to other units in course, allow modification to meet indi- 
vidual needs, include only what is accepted as necessary skill and infor- 
mation by those in the vocation, related to popular need or demand, 
based on proper analysis of job, and tend to thorough work. In organ- 
izing short unit courses selection of content should be based on an analy- 
sis of the homemaker's job and the needs of the group. The selection 
of steps in the development of the course should be based on stages of 
difficulty in learning, previous training of pupils, standards set for pro- 
duction, and be such as lend themselves to the unity of the entire 
sequence. 



480 THE JOURNAL OF HOMK ECONOMICS [Xovcmbef 

Much depends on the proper segregation of groups in classes to secure 
the highest interest and best results. While group instruction will be 
possible and should be used, individual instruction will have a promi- 
nent place because of the varied educational acquirements of the part- 
time pupils and the varied experiences. Most of all must the methods 
be economical of the pupils' time. Mrs. Eastwood, in the paper referred 
to above also declares that the children (in part-time classes) are very 
good critics of class room methods and impatient of any waste of time. 

In these classes, as in all school instruction, the teacher is the main 
element of success. If the teacher for part-time classes is rightly se- 
lected, special problems of preliminary surveys, organization of classes 
and subject matter, and methods of instruction will be largely elimi- 
nated. Emily Grifiith, head of the (Jpportunit)' School in Denver, says 
that she has no volunteer workers in her school. Her teachers must be 
paid and held responsible for the work. Always encourage pupils, never 
discourage them, is a motto for the teachers in the Opportunity School. 

The teacher in the part-time school needs to be practical, experienced, 
sympathetic with the aims of instruction, familiar with the vocations of 
the pupils, their conditions of work and of living. She must be capable 
of thinking and speaking in simple concrete language, and have at the 
same time broad social views and vision, with neither the attitude nor 
address of a social "uplifter." 

Properly tempered enthusiasm, quick discernment of individual needs 
and good judgment are more important for this type of school than pro- 
found scholarship and much technical information. Sufficient scholar- 
ship and technical training of course are needed, but other qualifications 
are equally essential to success. 

Too often is the elementary or high school teacher who has had little 
contact with work-a-day conditions brought into the part-time school. 
The teacher who has had contact with the business world and home- 
making experience makes the greatest appeal to pupils in such schools. 

One reason for the failure of elementary and high school education to 
function in the lives of boys and girls is because the minute the doors of 
the school room close behind them, they are entirely lost sight of, as 
far as the school is concerned. What is commonly known as "follow 
up" work is becoming an accepted part of the vocational school program 
and, in the future, will be a more common feature of all school procedure. 
The organization of vocational schools and departments, calling as it 
does for information on pupils dropping out of the elementary and high 
schools, and their whereabouts, will necessitate keeping in touch with 



19201 vocjkxifxsn, EBCxmrcoisr is ebqhbc » i ' «—» ■ ■■ ■' <■ 4n 



those wiio leave scfaooL wiiile the i 

sory education. Li ws win lei -■ -i wegibiKAsAaeL 

attendance departmen:.? r: ■ irr! -aiqu il uytiL 

An essential in the - ■ ^lodBtfeat 

of "foQo-w up" woii. :^-7 nntme- 

of pupils wiai they axst QiroiL and. ir anpioyetL li - : 5:^;- 

doits in the school are. and voiimiaxy ^t.trpnrfivnr- 15 is x ;— .' _. _- .liie.. 
since Colorado has no comptilsory part-trme law. the hitsest of the 
anployer is constantly held by resorts to Prfm ■- -'--- — Tres of &k 
anpIo3rees. Again, when the tmenployed irnrF er -ie school 

gets in touch at once with the anpJoya-. ^nrf iou:-^. 
dents in their fields of work. If they do not succeed, 
to help "on the jofa " 

In an article on the Z 
ing ifagtizz-ite for June, li jy. vc rcivi. 

"An acadanic tsacher ha,.; Z'"* b:T:r; :: :.t:i _ 
of the time in r- .: : 
ment or homes ■ : • 

pupils' individual needs. T 
.\ shop teacher now has 2S : - 
hours for the upkeep ol tli 
satisfactory, ilr. Evans, 
tion School, says that 20 > 
ing program for the shop :.t 
in the foflow-uD work, .^s 



7arc-ame 
..-,.. ^ .^.:;. ^.^... . -:r it dul 

L'.rnded and educace . , - Jiat can b": 



— mi » the vilue i.if chii tvpr 



482 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS (Xovember 

FOOD ACCESSORY FACTORS IN RELATION TO THE TEETH 

PERCY R. HOWE, D.D.S. 
Chief, Denial Research, Harvard University 

The effect of vitamine-deficicnt diets upon the teeth and gums has 
been noted by many writers. McCollum and Pitz,' Cohen and Mendel,* 
and others have observed in guinea pigs loosening of the teeth with bleed- 
ing or congested gums associated with vitamine-deficient diet. Mrs. 
May Mellanby'' produced irregular teeth in pups by rachitic feeding. 
Zilva and Wells* examined histologically the teeth of guinea pigs fed on 
a scorbutic diet, and reported degenerate changes both in the teeth and 
in their pulps. 

Now the most generally accepted theory of dental caries is that of 
Miller. Miller' held that the fermentation of carbohydrates with the 
formation of lactic acid was the cause of tooth decay. He based his 
theory upon the following experiment: Teeth were placed in a fermenting 
mixture of bread and saliva, which he renewed from time to time that 
it might not become alkaline. After three months he obtained effects 
upon some of the teeth which he states could not be told macroscopically 
or microscopically from true decay. By zinc crystaUization he demon- 
strated the presence of lactic acid. He felt that he had proved his 
theory. Histologically Miller studied only the carious mass. He ig- 
nored the condition of the tooth substance immediately in advance of 
the decay. Bacteriologically his work was limited, and he found no 
specific organism which he could regard as the etiological factor in caries. 

We repeated and extended his experiment. We placed teeth in fer- 
menting mixtures of dextrose, maltose, lactose, saccharose, and of 
dextrin, white flour, and of bread. In some of the tubes we used saliva 
from individuals that had extensive tooth decay, in others saliva from 
cases of no decay, and in still others saliva from mbced cases. After 
six months some of the teeth showed an etched appearance, some a 
decalcified eflfect, and in others no change was discernible. In general 
the effects resembled those on tocth that had been subjected to a weak 

' McCollum, E. v., and Pitz, W., Biol. Chcm., 1917, XXXI, 236. 
' Cohen, B., and Mendel, L. B., Bio/. Chan., 1918, XXXV, 427. 
^ MeUanby, Jlrs. May, Dental Record, 1920, XL, 70. 
* Zilva, S. S., and Wells, F. M., Proc. Roy. Soc, 1919, B. 90, 305. 

' Miller, W. D., Microorganisms of the Human Mouth, S. S. WTiite, Denial Mfg. Co., p. 
196. 



1920] FOOD FACTORS IN RELATION TO THE TEETH 483 

decalcifying agent. The most pronounced thing brought out was the 
great difference in structure of the various teeth. Miller himself noticed 
this. He wonders why the teeth of pigs, which feed largely on ferment- 
able foods, are free from decay. 

If Miller's theory is sound it should be an easy matter to produce 
tooth decay in animals by fermentation. We have fed guinea pigs upon 
diets containing large amounts of the sugars and starches. These diets 
were continued for from six months to a year. The sugars were readily 
eaten, and adhered constantly to the tooth surfaces. The flora of the 
mouth became aciduric in character, but no effect could be detected in 
any of the teeth. We fed for three or four months microorganisms iso- 
lated from caries. The growth was constantly present in their mouths. 
No effect upon the teeth could be demonstrated. The animals all 
appeared to be in good condition at the end of six months, and even a 
year. 

We have, however, obtained rather extensive effects in the teeth, in 
the alveolar process, and in the jaws themselves by feeding vitamine- 
deficient diets. (The effects are not confined to the teeth and their 
adjacent structures, but are to be seen to a certain extent in the skull 
bones and in other bones of the body.) We fed the guinea pigs a simple 
diet of rolled oats and fat-free milk. They received about 25 cc. of the 
milk daily, and all the rolled oats that they would eat, with a very small 
piece of carrot or a small leaf of lettuce every other day or every third 
day. The animals were carefully watched, and when difficulty in the 
use of their legs was manifest, or difficulty in eating observed, the amount 
of green food was increased. This was necessary in order to prevent 
death, which at this stage ensues rapidly. Our object was to produce a 
chronic condition in which the lime would be slowly removed from the 
bony structures. Thus our experiments extended over periods of from 
three months to a year. WTien the onset of the symptoms was so 
rapid that the animals were unable to eat green foods we fed them orange 
juice from a medicine dropper. They took this with great avidity, and 
its beneficial effects were quickly evident. They were soon able to eat 
grated carrot, and later thin slices of carrot and lettuce. On the latter 
diet, combined with whole milk, they soon regained weight and appeared 
nearly normal. They were then again placed on a diet of rolled oats 
and fat-free milk, the green food being reduced to the lowest possible 
quantity. McCollum's salt mixture or calcium lactate was usually 
added to the diet, although the milk should furnish a sufficient amount 



484 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

of inorganic constituents. Agar-agar was also added for its effect ujjon 
the intestinal tract. 

By the use of such a diet we were able to produce three types of dental 
disturbance. First, we produced a very marked loosening of the teeth, 
together with an extensive absorption of the alveolar process. If the 
effect was brought about slowly, and continued for about four months, 
it resembled the alveolar absorption of senility. If it was brought about 
with more rapidity and severity the appearance was more like carious 
bone. In some instances the gums bled, and a copious flow of pus 
occurred. These conditions closely simulate the various forms of 
pyorrhea alveolaris. 

Second, the teeth, particularly in young guinea pigs, were regularly 
decalcified. A distinct bending of the teeth was seen. They could be 
bent with the fingers. A sharp instrument would penetrate them with 
ease. When brushing the bones with a soft brush, in the process of 
cleaning specimens, large portions of the teeth were often removed. 
The tips of the teeth seemed to soften first. Distinct cavity formation, 
accompanied by a brown discoloration of the affected structure, appeared 
in two cases. If, as Miller believed, dental caries is primarily a process 
of decalcification of the tooth structure, then we appear to have taken 
at least the first steps in the production of true caries. This was brought 
about not by the fermentation of sugars and starches in the mouth, but 
as one result of a profound metabolic disturbance induced by the feeding 
of a vitamine-dcftcicnt diet. 

Third, many irregular arrangements of the teeth were brought about. 
For example, the lower incisors of one young guinea pig broke off while 
he was on a deficient diet. As the guinea pig is a rodent, the teeth grew 
out again, but because of the softened condition of the supporting struc- 
tures became crossed like the letter X. About this time the pig was 
placed on a diet of whole milk with plenty of green stuff, and its general 
condition rapidly improved. When the skull was examined it was found 
that not only had the teeth become fixed in the crossed position, but the 
anterior part of the lower jaw had a wTinkled and thickened appearance, 
showing that there had been a period of decalcification followed by recal- 
cification. 

It should be stated here that the given diet was deficient in all three 
of the known vitamines. It may be found on further experimentation 
that the same effects can be produced by a deficiency of only one or two 
of the accessory food substances, but such a result would not lessen the 



1920] FOOD FACTORS IN RELATION TO THE TEETH 485 

importance of any of the other factors in the diet for the maintenance 
of the general health. It is of course not possible to draw definite con- 
clusions regarding human teeth from experiments, however conclusive, 
on the teeth of guinea pigs, but in the present state of our knowledge it 
would seem that those foods which are important for growth and the 
preservation of good health are also largely concerned in the formation 
and preservation of sound teeth. Such foods are those which are recom- 
mended by McCollum and many other writers, — whole milk, fresh vege- 
tables, particularly of the green, leafy varieties, fresh fruits and whole 
grains. 

It has been noted many times in dental writings that the teeth of 
aboriginal or primitive races are practically free from decay. Dr. 
Ottofy,^ on examining the teeth of Igorot children in the Philippine 
Islands, found that 68 per cent of them had perfect teeth, and that the 
imperfections in the teeth of the remaining 32 per cent were so slight that 
they would have escaped the notice of a layman. The Esquimaux are a 
caries free people. Wells' reports that the Highlanders of Scotland are 
comparatively free from dental decay, but that the people living in the 
Lowlands have much decay. Speaking of the excellent dental condition 
of the Highland Scotch he says: "This is largely accounted for by their 
simple diet of natural foods." On the other hand he says of the ex- 
tremely poor dental condition of the Lowlanders: "The great reason for 
this is, to my mind, the diet of more refined foods." 

Every dentist is familiar with the fact that many of the Swedish girls 
who come to this country as domestics have excellent teeth when they 
arrive, but that after eating our refined and cold storage foods their 
teeth decay rapidly. When we consider that city milk has the lowest 
amount of fat allowed by law, that butter substitutes are extensively 
used, that our flour is deficient in water-soluble \itamines, and that we 
do not have an abundance of fresh and raw vegetables, we can readily see 
that there is considerable ground for the belief that not only for full 
growth and development, but for sound teeth, a full quota in our diet 
of vitamine-containing foods is essential. 

• Ottofy, L., Dental Cosmos, 1908, L, 676. 

' Wells, P. M., Denial Record, 1919, XXXIX, 348. 



486 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

STANDARDIZED TESTS IN TEXTILES AND CLOTHING 

UABEL B. TRILLING AND FLORENCE WILLIAMS 
The Univeriity of Chicago 

I. THE DEVELOPMENT OF TESTS AND SCALES 

The common method of evaluating children's abilities is a matter 
of judgment and personal opinion with instructors. There have been 
various investigations which show that the judgment of the most expe- 
rienced and best trained teachers concerning children's abihties is not 
reliable. One such investigation is reported in "Measurements of 
Certain Elements of Hand Sewing" by Dr. Katharine Murdoch. The 
judgments of teachers with similar training and experience vary to a 
large extent. Two marks given by the same teacher on the same piece 
of work but at different times may also vary. All teachers experience 
difficulty in marking work accurately. Opinion wavers as to what mark 
should be given. Should the mark be A or A — , or should the term grade 
be C or B? The teacher's passing mood or frame of mind may decide 
the question. The need for an accurate and objective means of measur- 
ing abilities is ob\aous. Standardiy.cd tests and scales offer this objec- 
tive means of measurement. All sciences have developed and use meas- 
uring instruments. Temperatures are measured by thermometers. 
Weights are measured by scales. Such instruments have made possible 
the progress of science. Education is fast becoming scientific in its 
nature. In order to put education upon a really sound and scientific 
basis we must have instruments to measure the results of our teaching. 
If the teacher of clothing and textiles is to improve her technique of 
teaching she must have an accurate means of measuring and comparing 
results. The need for standardized tests and scales in clothing and 
textiles is as great as in any other school subject. 

Development of tests. In order to develop tests and scales in textiles 
and clothing it is necessary to analyze the subject matter in terms of 
the mental processes involved. The subject matter involves much the 
same types of learning as that of any other study. For example, a 
clothing and textile course includes the acquisition of skill, the exercise 
of problem-solving abilities, the acquisition of information, and the de- 
velopment of appreciation. Hand and machine se^ving require skill, 
textile study requires the acquisition of information, the planning of a 



1920] STANDARDIZED TESTS IN TEXTILES AND CLOTHING 487 

garment requires judgment and discrimination, and the choice of a 
style requires appreciation of line and color. Before we can measure 
accurately the results of instruction in clothing and textile courses we 
need to develop tests and scales that are so constructed as to measure 
the mental processes involved. The specific outcomes from a course in 
textiles and clothing should be determined. Then tests and scales can 
be constructed to measure abilities in these specific things. 

Description of tests. Of all the specific outcomes expected in a course 
of textiles and clothing, skill is the easiest to measure. For this reason 
probably the first attempts at standardized tests and scales in the field 
of textiles and clothing are for the measurement of skill. The Murdoch 
scale is a scale for the measurement of six stitches in hand sewing. It 
consists of photographic reproductions of some samplers made by chil- 
dren. Fifteen samplers of varying degrees of excellence were photo- 
graphed and hav'e been assigned numerical values. These fifteen sam- 
plers were selected from sewing done by 1,212 individuals and judged by 
many judges. A scientific and statistical procedure, too long to be de- 
scribed here, was followed in order to select the fifteen samplers which 
show equal steps in degrees of excellence. Unless this procedure were 
followed the scale would be of no more value than a scale made according 
to the opinion of one teacher and from samples taken from one class. 

The Knapp and Williams Scale is a scale for the measurement of abil- 
ity in machine sewing. A long careful procedure was also followed in 
the construction of this scale. An attempt was made to analyze the 
factors which contribute to the excellence of machine sewing. Five 
factors, spacing, constructive elements, tension, length of stitch, and 
neatness, were decided upon as the elements which contribute to good 
machine sewing. The scale (not yet published) consists of photographic 
reproduction of samples showing varying degrees of excellence in each 
of these factors. For example, three qualities of excellence are shown 
for spacing, three qualities of excellence in neatness and so on for each 
of the five factors. Two scales were made, one for judging the use of 
machine stitching in the construction of a hem on a straight edge and 
the other for the use of machine stitching in a French seam. 

To use either the Knapp and Williams or the Murdoch scale the work 
to be judged is compared with the samples shown in the scale. The 
work to be judged need not be a sampler, made in the same way as those 
shown in the scale. The hand sewing stitches or machine made hems 
and French seams as used in garments can also be judged. A difference 



488 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

between the two scales is noted in that using the scale for hand sewing 
one judges for general merit and in using the one for machine sewing 
one judges separately each of the factors contributing to good machine 
sewing. 

The Trilling and Bowman Tests have been designed to test the acqui- 
sition of information and the ability to reason in situations invoking 
the use of material presented in a textile and clothing course. The fol- 
lowing exercise is an example taken from these tests. 

I. To test material for wool, check the best test to use from the follow- 
ing list. 

1. Examine the sample under the microscope. 

2. Burn samples of both warp and woof threads, noticing the odor 
and type of residue. 

3. Boil the sample for a few minutes to remove sizing. 

II. To test a material for true and artificial silk, check the test in the 
following list which it would be best to use. 

1. The burning test. 

2. The microscopic test. 

3. The breaking test. 

The following exercise is an example taken from the reasoning test 
on dress design. 

I. If you had plenty of money to buy yourself a school dress for next 
winter would you buy: 

1. A velvet dress. 

2. A serge dress. 

3. A broadcloth dress. 

4. A taffeta silk dress. 

II. You are to design a party dress for a very tall girl of about your 
own age. Should you use: 

1. Striped material with panel drapes. 

2. Plain material with rufSes. shirring, or horizontal tucks. 

3. Embroidered material with a wide girdle and plaited skirt. 

II. TESTS AND SCALES AS AN AID IN THE REORGANIZATION OF COURSES 

Need for reorganization oj courses. The tests and scales described in 
the foregoing can be of great aid in the organization and teaching of home 
economics. In a recent investigation conducted by the Department of 
Home Economics in the University of Chicago, some specific reasons for 



1920] STANDARDIZED TESTS IN TEXTILES AND CLOTHING 489 

the reorganization of home economics courses were brought to light. 
First, there is no general practice as to the distribution of topics through 
the grades. For example, it is just as probable that the same material 
in textile study will be introduced in the fifth as in the ninth grade. 
Second, there is no established basis for the sequence of topics. Third, 
there has been practically no attempt to establish minimal essentials 
or standards of attainment. 

Distribution of topics. It is interesting to note how tests and scales 
can be an aid in determining what the general practice should be in 
regard to these points. First, there is no general practice as to the 
distribution of topics through the grades. For example, we do not 
know in what grade or at what age machine sewing should be introduced. 
Many of us have opinions as to the proper time but after all is said it is 
mere opinion. An examination of courses of study shows that in some 
schools it is introduced in the sLxth grade, in others not until the seventh 
and eighth, and in still others not until the high school. Obviously the 
opinions of teachers vary in this respect. All these opinions can not be 
correct. There must be one period of the child's development when 
machine sewing can be taught most efficiently and economically. By 
means of tests it would be possible to determine this period. Machine 
sewing might be taught to sixth grade classes and continued when the 
classes become seventh grade classes. At the end of this time the classes 
could be tested and their score compared with the score made by classes 
which were taught machine sewing only in the seventh grade. It is pos- 
sible that the latter would make the higher score. By delaying the in- 
struction in machine sewing for a year the children may gain the ability 
to acquire a skill more rapidly and at the same time more effectively. 
Of course it would be necessary to control the conditions carefully so 
that the results would have real meaning. 

By such experimentation, testing, and comparison of results it should 
be possible to tell where many other topics should be introduced. For 
example, the clothing course requires the cutting and fitting of a gar- 
ment. This cutting and fitting of a garment requires the exercise of 
those mental processes known as reasoning, judgment, and discrimina- 
tion. By means of tests and experimentation it should be possible to 
determine at what period girls best develop this ability. This does not 
mean that at one age we would turn our attention entirely to the devel- 
opment of skill, at another age to the development of the reasoning 
faculties, at still another time to the acquisition of information. Learn- 



490 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOJOCS [N'ovcmber 

ing can not be so organized and pigeon-holed. However, by experimen- 
tation wc could determine at what age to emphasize certain phases of 
subject matter. For example learning to sew on the machine is largely 
a matter of skill although it involves discrimination and judgment. The 
study of textiles can be made chiefly a matter of the acquisition of in- 
formation or of the exercise of problem-solving abilities. It is a matter 
of emphasis and the emphasis should depend upon the period of the 
child's development. 

Sequence of projects. A second specific need for the reorganization of 
courses is the lack of an established basis for the sequence of projects. 
Again tests can be an aid in this reorganization of courses. Everyone 
should agree that projects should be arranged upon a basis of steadily 
increasing difliculty. Yet one course of study states that the girls may 
choose between the making of a towel and napkin and a child's dress. 
AH sewing teachers would agree that a dress is more difhcult than a towel 
and napkin. Of course this is an extreme example yet other courses of 
study show ver>' little attempt to organize projects so that they are of 
increasing difficulty. Many courses of study make such statements as 
the following: "Much the same outline in the eighth as in the seventh 
only more theory," "Continue the work of other grades," "Seventh 
year chiefly re\iews," or "Scope of the work in the sixth grade much 
the same as in the fifth." Such statements do not indicate that there 
is a basis upon which projects are chosen which will make for progress in 
learning. Again it is a matter of opinions. Even the more experienced 
teachers can not really tell what projects are most difficult for learners. 
For example, in using the tests on machine sewing described above it 
was discovered that the hem is more difficult to make but the French seam 
is more difficult for the girls to understand. A question arises as to 
whether projects should be selected on a basis of increasing difficulty in 
technique or increasing difficulty in comprehension. However it is not 
the purpose of this article to discuss this question but to point out how 
tests and scales can be an aid in establishing a basis for the sequence of 
topics. 

Minimal essentials. A third reason for the chaotic condition of cloth- 
ing and textile courses as revealed by the investigation is the failure to 
establish minimal essentials. Every sewing teacher has her opinion as 
to what her girls should be able to do at the end of a sewing course. 
Yet it is only her opinion and it can not be of as much value as a stand- 
ard set by the testing of a large number of children. For example, if 



1920] CLOTHING PURCHASING HABITS 491 

the Trilling and Bowman Content Tests were given to several hundred 
children the score made by the majority would be the standard of attain- 
ment that could be expected from other children of the same age who had 
been given the same work. If tests were designed for the various phases 
of subject matter and a standard set in this way the tests would be of 
great help to the class-room teacher. She could determine how her 
children compared with the standards set by the majority of children. 
She could also detect weaknesses in her own teaching and emphasize 
her work accordingly. 

In order to make most efifective our courses in clothing and textiles, 
we need careful and scientific reorganization. Standardized tests and 
scales are tools which may be used for this purpose. It is not claimed 
that by means of tests alone can this be accomplished, but tests and 
scales should play an important part. First, we need tests which will 
measure specific results accurately. Second, there should be widespread 
use of the tests and a comparison of results. Third, courses should be 
organized and taught according to the conclusions drawn. In this way 
tests and scales may be an aid in organizing our clothing and textile 
courses on a sound and scientific basis. 



A STUDY OF CLOTHING ^PURCHASING HABITS' 

ETHEL L. PHELPS 

Division of Borne Economics, University of Minnesota 

In presenting this report of a study of purchasing habits, acknowledg- 
ment is made of the generous cooperation by many busy people in obtain- 
ing the material used. It is not a report of work done by any one person, 
but summarizes the work done in Minnesota only. The reports of 
service dresses from other states confirmed the inferences drawn from 
this Minnesota work, which is only a small part of the whole survey of 
the central committee on standardization, of which Miriam Birdseye is 
chairman. 

The information collected concerning service dresses may well be used 
as a specific illustration of an intensive study of purchasing habits, the 

' Presented at the Thirteenth'Annual Meeting of the American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation, Colorado Springs, June, 1920. 



492 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS (November 

type of garment being one quite generally used. In this study, the 
term "service dress" is used by the committee to indicate the tj-pe of 
dress worn by the business woman daily, and on the street by the home- 
maker, excluding garments for formal social wear, or for house work. 
It was found necessary in some cases to include the wool or silk suit under 
this head, as many women, including homemakers, use the suit skirt 
and a blouse in place of such a dress. 

Material for this particular study was gathered by several groups, 
under the direction of Marion Wcller, chairman of the advisory commit- 
tee on service dresses. These groups included the clothing and textiles 
sections of both the college and state home economics associations in 
Minnesota. Approximately 1500 to 2000 questionnaires were sent out, 
many by the chairman of the committee, and many others by the 
secretary of the local Division of Women's Acti\aties of the Department 
of Justice. As a result, there arc represented in this report teachers, 
university students, clerks, and homemakers from small towns as well 
as cities. The student association canvassed the students, stafT, and 
clerks of the college. A large number of Minneapolis teachers were 
reached through a group meeting of all home economics teachers in 
the public schools of that city. The data from homemakers were chiefly 
obtained through the cooperation of the women's clubs, questionnaires 
having been taken to the club meeting, explained, filled out, and col- 
lected. The results obtained in this way were rather more accurate and 
satisfactory than would have been the case had the blanks been distrib- 
uted promiscuously, and a much greater number were returned. All 
of the teachers, students, and clerks have been grouped together, and 
the club women divided into two groups — those li\-ing in the three larger 
cities of Minnesota (Minneapolis, St. Paul, and Duluth), and those 
living in some 65 smaller towns scattered throughout the state. 

The total number of questionnaires returned was 876, of which approx- 
imately one-sixth were from club women in the three cities, one-third 
from club women in smaller towns, and one-half from teachers, students, 
and clerks. About one-tenth were either blank or incorrectly filled out, 
so that the actual niunber of reports used was 789, a number sufiiciently 
large to be considered a fair sample. It is to be regretted, however, that 
this sample omits certain important groups having markedly different 
purchasing habits, namely, those lixing on restricted incomes, and the 
wealthy. It might well be said that the results of this study are true 
only for persons with medium incomes. 



1920] CLOTHING PURCHASING HABITS 493 

The questionnaires used asked people to state the materials purchased 
in the last two years for wool and silk service dresses, indicating those 
purchased by the yard, and those bought ready made. It was found 
necessary to change this description to materials now in use, for the 
reason that many women stated that they had bought nothing in the 
last two years. This information made it possible to study not only 
the materials used, but also, with sufficient accuracy, the extent to which 
they were used. When reports began to come in, it was at once evident 
that many persons do not know by name the fabrics they wear day by 
day, as was indicated by the use of the terms wool or silk in place of the 
fabric name. 

The following obserA-ations were made: 

First. Wool is used more widely than silk for service dresses in 
Minnesota, 91 per cent reporting the use of wool, and 61 per cent, the 
use of silk for this purpose, some reporting the use of both wool and 
silk, thus clearly showing the predominating importance of wool for such 
garments in a northern cHmate. 

Second. The number of kinds of fabrics used for service dresses, com- 
bining those purchased by the yard, and those purchased ready made, is 
large and variable; 34 for wool, and 30 for silk, the number of materials 
used by the yard being greater than the number bought ready made. 
The professional group use the largest number and the city club women 
use the fewest. This may possibly be explained on the basis of the 
apparent correlation between the number of persons reporting in each 
group, and the number of kinds of materials used by each group, the 
teachers being the largest and the city club women the smallest group. 

Third. All fabrics are not equally popular. A very few lead with an 
astonishing majorit)'; perhaps one-third to one-half are used with suf- 
ficient frequency to be significant, and the rest are used only occasionally. 
To illustrate this point, we need only to note that 55 per cent of all wool 
dresses reported are made of serge, and approximately 50 per cent of 
silk dresses are made of taffeta or satin, taffeta being used slightly 
more than satin. Furthermore, two other wool fabrics, tricotine and 
jersey, are used for 21 per cent of the wool dresses in addition to the 55 
per cent made of serge, making a total of 76 per cent of the wool dresses 
made from only three fabrics. Four others, poplin, broadcloth, gabar- 
dine, and velour, have a moderate amount of use, while the remaining 
27 kinds of materials are used for only 6 per cent of all the wool dresses. 
The same situation exists in regard to choice of silk fabrics. Only 10 



494 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

per cent of the dresses are made of 21 of the 30 kinds of silk listed, while 
7 others hold an intermediate position, in addition to satin and tafleta, 
which were used for 50 per cent. In other words, the purchasing habits 
of these people lead them to use only about six difTerent materials for 
about nine-tenths of their wool or silk service dresses. This general 
statement holds true approximately in this study, for each group, as 
well as for the whole. 

Fourth. Equally accurate information is not at present available 
concerning purchasing habits from the point of view of either whole- 
sale or retail sales. An attempt was made to approximate this 
information by interviews with department managers and buyers in 
retail stores. One wholesale establishment was visited. All agreed on 
the preeminent position of serge, as a material purchased by people 
living on moderate incomes, for service dresses, but beyond that there 
was no agreement, short time fluctuations in sales somewhat clouding 
their informal verbal reports. Were it possible to make a similar study 
of sales records in one or two representative stores, an interesting and 
valuable check for this study would be provided. 

Fifth. The relation of style to the choice of material for service dresses 
could not be ascertained. This also would best be determined by a 
study of past sales records, combined with a study of style variation. 
The relation of the present vogue of serge to the widespread use of that 
material was noted by the merchants as a difficult question to answer. 

Sixth The use of trade marked fabrics for service dresses is very lim- 
ited, only two such being observed out of about 1150 instances of wool 
used, and 30 from over 750 instances of silk. There are many more 
trade marked silks available than similarly marked wool fabrics which 
probably accounts for the difference between wool and silk. 

A number of points may also be noted which have a bearing upon the 
teaching of textiles and clothing. The need for more wide spread knowl- 
edge of standard fabrics is very clearly pointed out. It is of basic impor- 
tance that the consumer should buy knowingly, if she is to buy wisely 
and economically. Such an ideal could be realized with greater com- 
pleteness, were there more standardization, both of fabrics and of names 
of materials, than is to be found at present. Certain standard grades 
of undermuslins^ — approximately equivalent in specification, name, and 
price throughout the country before the war — could be cited as illustra- 
tions of these points. Competition has fostered the production of many 
novelty materials of unknown standard, and has also giv-en, in some 



1920] CLOTHING PURCHASING HABITS 495 

cases, more than one name to materials which are identical, except for 
the fact that they are the product of competing manufacturers. An 
illustration of this confusing situation is to be observed in the loose and 
varied use of the terms, — gabardine, tricotine, and Poiret twill, as well 
as nainsook and batiste in undermuslins. 

The work with service dresses included one part which, while it is not 
strictly a study of consumption habits, is intimately related to them and 
of great importance, namely, the Hsting of desirable characteristics for 
some of these widely used materials, which was called for under division 
II of the general plan for the survey. A detailed discussion of this mat- 
ter can not be given at this time, other than to mention its stimulating 
effects in class, but it should be noted that the demands made by the 
consumer as to characteristics and wearing qualities of fabrics must be 
reasonable if they are to do good, and not harm the cause. It surely is 
not reasonable to ask that jersey shall not stretch, when the very nature 
of the knitted fabric makes that one of its most marked characteristics. 
Likewise, it is a waste of time to ask for serge, or wool poplin, or any other 
worsted fabric, made of combed, tightly twisted, closely woven yams, 
that will not "shine." The "shine" is the inevitable result of the com- 
bination of these greatly to be desired quahties, plus the wear which 
they make possible. 

In conclusion, more should be known concerning the purchasing hab- 
its of different groups of people as regards clothing, and concerning the 
basic reasons or causes underlying a variation of these habits among such 
groups. This study has given some information as to what people buy, 
none as to why they buy, or what they ought to buy — for this more is 
needed. Information from groups having lower incomes is desirable, 
but some method other than the general questionnaire must be devised 
in order to obtain such data. There is a practical necessity for knowing 
the purchasing habits of different groups, because of the many types rep- 
resented in textiles and clothing classes. For a similar reason definite 
information might be desirable concerning groups living in different 
geographical regions, for example, Minnesota, California, Florida. 

The entire survey of which this study is a part indicates that there 
is still a place for emphasis on fabric study in textiles and clothing class 
work, especially on standard fabrics, and the relation between their 
properties and use. The whole hearted response and widespread inter- 
est in this piece of work should prove to be suflicieut encouragement 
for further investigation along similar lines. 



496 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [XoVCmbcr 

PARENTS' MEETINGS IN THE NEW YORK SCHOOLS 

AGNES DALEY 
Rome Economics Department, New York City Schools 

"Are we discouraged?" "No, not we." 

This slogan, used so much by our soldiers in the late war when guns 
and ammunition played the all important r61e, might well be applied 
to another kind of warfare, that which is being waged on malnutrition 
with its ammunition of right food facts, fired by means of mothers' 
meetings. Our reports show that attendance at these meetings begins 
at zero and runs the gamut to 300. We might quote the teacher who 
after very special effort to reach the mothers and much preparation to 
make the meeting pleasant and profitable did not have a single one at- 
tend, but undaunted called another meeting — "The mothers seem hard 
to get, but this week we had four; they seemed interested and promised 
to come again." Another reports only two present as a result of 70 
invitations to an informal tea to meet the class teachers, adding, " Rain- 
ing hard." She sent 34 invitations for the following day with five 
responses. She adds "We hope in time to have a meeting to which all 
the mothers will come." Oh no, we are not discouraged! 

Two others appeared at one school in response to a widely sent invi- 
tation. One of these announced upon her arrival, "I have raised six 
children to be self-supporting, you can't teach me how to feed my chil- 
dren, but I thought I would come and find out what you had to say." 
She remained an hour. The teacher talked in the most informal way 
with these two mothers. When they were leaving, the skeptical mother 
admitted that she had learned a good many things. 

The means used to get the mothers together have been many and 
various. One of the best has been cooperation with the kindergarten 
teachers. We find that the mothers of little children will respond to an 
invitation and we find, too, that we usually get more of the younger 
mothers. Those joint meetings are held sometimes in the kindergarten 
and sometimes in the school kitchen. The kindergarten teachers look 
after the social side of the meeting and the cooking teachers give a well 
prepared talk illustrated with typical meals for children. These meals 
have been prepared by children and arranged on trays. Posters also 
are used to help visualize the facts taught and some literature is distri- 
buted. We have found that after one of these meetings the women are 
eager to talk and gather in groups about the teachers present. 



1920] parents' meetings in new york schools 497 

The following illustrations will serve to show the interest that has 
been awakened: At one of the gatherings a mother, dressed in mourning, 
told the cooking teacher she had recently lost her husband of tubercu- 
losis, and that she had a little daughter who, she feared, had inherited a 
tendency to this disease. She was most anxious to do the right thing 
for her child. The cooking teacher then and there made an appointment 
to go to her home where they could quietly talk over the child's diet 
and general care. Another mother said that her little boy refused to 
eat breakfast; what could she do? Again the teacher came to the rescue, 
telling her she would see the boy and do all that she could to show him 
the importance of eating good food before coming to school. 

There has been an opportunity for originality on the part of the teach- 
ers holding these meetings. Plays have been written and staged to the 
delight of the children and the interest of parents; stories have been 
told, with illustrations. Personal in\dtations, many hundreds, even 
thousands, have been sent into the homes. Children have ^vritten in\d- 
tations, each to his own mother. Several teachers have used graduation 
day to further the food mission, for on this day there was no trouble in 
getting both mothers and fathers, who were invited to visit the kitchen 
after the exercises. One teacher closed her door when the room was 
filled and gave a five minute talk. She says, "The crowd outside 
waited, sure they were missing something," and reports that 240 moth- 
ers and fathers listened to her litle talks. 

When the schools were having peace pageants, there was an unusual 
opportunity for food meetings. Numbers of parents \asited the schools 
and were asked to \dsit the kitchens before leaving, and. once there, 
the cooking teacher seized the opportunity to talk on the kind of food 
needed by their children. 

There has been fine cooperation between school nurses and cooking 
teachers. Joint meetings have been held at which mothers were en- 
couraged to cook typical dishes, and this type of meeting furnished a 
social element as it gave opportunity for friendly discussion of the work 
in hand. Sometimes the children cooked meals while mothers looked 
on; this always begets a lively interest, for mothers like to see their 
children do things. Parents' organizations have been helpful in this 
work. They have conducted food meetings at which the domestic 
science teachers have had the program. One such organization fur- 
nished scales to the school and planned with the principal for regular 
meetings for the discussion of malnutrition. 



498 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

The Child Health reels furnished by the Government have made pos- 
sible the advertisement of a "moN-ie" for parents' meetings, and this is 
usually a drawing card. 

At Mothers' meetings, in the past, it has been a very general custom 
to have tea and crackers or some simple cake. We find now in a number 
of reports sent us that com and pwtato chowder is becoming the typical 
refreshment offered. 

Effort has not been confined to schools in which home economics is 
taught. Very successful meetings have been held in other schools, due 
in a large measure to the interest shown by the principals. 

We are looking for greater results this year. 



FIFTEEN POINTS OF A PROFESSIONAL CREED 

Join the Association. 

Get a new member. 

Join your state association. 

Subscribe to the Journal. 

Get a new subscriber. 

Ask if your library has the Journal. 

Become a contributor to the Journal. 

Send news items to the Journal. 

Send a question to the Question Box. 

Use the Open P^orum. 

Get an advertisement for the Journal. 

Refer your students to the Journal. 

Attend the meetings of the Association. 

Get another new member. 

Get another new subscriber. 



STUDENT CONTRIBUTIONS 

HOME ECONOMICS DAY 

MAIDA JOHNSON 
Iowa State College 

Home Economics day! Girls at Iowa State College had their long- 
cherished dreams come true when the deans set aside half a day for a 
department celebration. 

Of course the "Ags" and Engineers had always called on the girls for 
help in their campfires, carnivals, and St. Patrick's day celebrations, but 
never before had the girls had a chance to run such an affair themselves. 

Immediately every home economics student in school set out to make 
plans for the day which would insure its success and a granting of a day 
every year for this purpose. The home economics building became a 
buzzing, busy place, all toward the same end — a truly successful 
"H. Ec" day. 

A tag day was held on which tags were sold for a small sum to all who 
wanted to come; the money to cover the expenses for the day. 

On the appointed day the whole college started out to satisfy its curi- 
osity — particularly the men, for they were rather skeptical as to any- 
thing the girls might manage. 

Strong armed police women, decked out in regular "cop" coats, stars, 
and clubs, guarded the right of way and kept the "mob" on a move 
around a designated route. 

In the first room were samples of art work and two small rooms cur 
tained off. One, as a shining e.xample of what a room should be, was 
beautifully decorated according to all rules of color, proportion, and order. 
The other was most interesting, being the faithful reproduction of the 
usual college girl's room — decorated wonderfully with dance programs, 
life-size men's pictures, and drapes, pincushions, and couch covers of 
varied hues. 

The next room showed the development of cooking equipment, from 
the mortar and pestle to the most modern of electric outfits. Girls 
dressed to suit the different periods demonstrated the diliferent utensils. 

499 



500 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

Told to "keep moving please" we wandered on to see the development 
of clothing. Here were models decked out in dresses of every period from 
the dress of leaves to the extreme 1920 gown. 

After viewing all these things we then pushed onward — literally pushed 
and were pushed — and soon we were to discover the reason, for on the 
floor above was food. Real home economics food — sandwiches, coffee, 
individual mince pies topped with ice cream, and popcorn balls. When 
these booths were reached even the most critical succumbed and pro- 
nounced the day a success. 

While all this was going on in the home economics building, there was 
a continuous program being put on by the girls' physical culture depart- 
ment. Three special features were put on during the afternoon in the 
girls' g)Tnnasiuiii, the tags admitting the holder to only one of the three. 
Baseball, volley ball, and basket ball games were played between picked 
teams. The enthusiasm over these events exceeded all bounds. 

Over in the art studios were special exhibits prepared by the art de- 
partment. Here the applied design and houseplanning classes displayed 
their work. 

In the evening two shows of vaudeville were staged by the actresses 
among the "H. Ec" students. Clever and original stunts won the 
wholehearted approval of the two packed houses which viewed them. 

The work of the day was divided among the various girls organiza- 
tions on the campus. The Home Economics Club was in charge, while 
Omicron Nu, Theta Sigma Phi, Mortar Board, and Jack O'Lantern had 
their duties. 

Needless to say, hereafter, "H.Ec" day will be an annual alTair. 



ANSWER THE RED CROSS ROLL CALL, iNovember 11, 
Armistice Day, to November 25, Thanksgiving. 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

THE USE OF MALTOSE SIRUP FOR CANDY MAKING 

Successful use of maltose sirup as a substitute for a part of the sugar 
used in the manufacture of ice cream and certain soft drinks, and in 
candy making, has been demonstrated by experiments by the Bureau of 
Chemistry of the United States Department of Agriculture. Experi- 
ments in the use of maltose sirup in canning fruits and vegetables are 
now under way. 

Maltose sirup is prepared usually from corn, but sometimes from rice, 
by the action of a small proportion of barley malt. For the reason, 
however, that the process necessary for its manufacture calls for the 
use of expensive equipment which is not available in the home, it has not 
been found possible to make this product successfully on a small scale on 
the farm or in the home. A number of large manufacturers are now 
supplying maltose sirup to commercial bakers, confectioners, and soft 
drink manufacturers. Certain manufacturers have already placed mal- 
tose sirup upon the retail market in small packages for the use of the 
housewife and it is anticipated that the sirup will be more generally 
available to the retail trade in the near future. 

Much of the information on the use of maltose sirup in candy making 
is not yet ready for publication, but a few of the recipes developed by 
the Bureau of Chemistry of the Department of Agriculture foUow: 

Candy Squares. Sugar, 11 ounces; maltose sirup, 4 ounces; water, 
6-7 tablespoonfuls. 

Put the sugar, water, and sirup in a small saucepan of twice the capac- 
ity apparently required for the mLxture; stir over the fire and boil to 
"soft ball" (238°F.); remove from the fire, let stand for 5 minutes; then 
stir and cream by rubbing the sirup against the inside of the kettle with 
a wooden paddle. (An 8-inch paddle is a good size to protect the hand 
from burns.) During this operation the batch can be colored and flav- 
ored to suit. After about 5 to 7 minutes' stirring and creaming the 
batch will appear milky and creamy, when it should be poured out on 
greased or waxed paper laid on wood, the paper being confined with strips 

501 



502 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [November 

or bars of wood, or other material, to make a space 5 by 10 inches. Let 
the batch stand til! set; scratch with the point of a knife in squares, and 
break apart when cold. The customary flavors are: mint, white; win- 
tergreen, pink; lemon, yellow; orange, orange; chocolate. A few drops 
of flavor is generally suflicient. For chocolate, shave 1 ounce bitter choco- 
late and add after the candy has boiled. 

Cocoanut kisses. Sugar, 8 ounces; maltose sirup, 3 ounces; water, 6 
tablespoonfuls; cocoanut (dried), 3 ounces (dried cocoanut moistened 
with 3 teaspoonfuls of water). 

Boil sugar, water and sirup to soft ball (240°F.), remove from fire, 
let stand for 5 minutes, then stir and cream for 4 minutes; add cocoa- 
nut and desired flavor and color; continue creaming until batch gets 
thick and mushy, when it can be poured and treated like the candy 
squares, or get the batch quite stifl and spoon out in kisses, about the 
size of one's thumb, on waxed or greased paper laid on wood. Customary 
flavors and colors are : vanilla, white; strawberry, pink; chocolate. For 
the chocolate kisses add one ounce of bitter or baking chocolate. 

Molasses kisses. Molasses, 6 ounces; maltose sirup, 6 ounces; butter, 
1 ounce. 

Stir and boil to hard ball (254°F.) ; test as for caramels; pour on greased 
cold slab or pan; when firm enough to handle, add teaspoonful of vanilla 
extract and pull till light and flufTy (on hook, large nail, or spike); when 
well pulled spin or stretch in sticks about as thick as one's thumb, cut in 
pieces with scissors and wrap each piece in waxed paper. Corn starch, 
flour, or 4X sugar will prevent candy from sticking to hands or table. 

Caramels. Sugar, 8 ounces; maltose sirup, 11 ounces; evaporated 
milk or cream, 11 ounces; butter, 3 ounces. 

Dissolve sugar and sirup in one-third of the milk over the fire; boil, 
stirring continuously until batch becomes thick; add more milk, cook 
again until thick, and repeat until all the milk is used; add butter. 
When the batch appears very thick or stifT, remove from fire, and test 
by spreading a teaspoonful on a greased cold plate or by dropping in 
cold water. When ready to pour, the batch, on testing, should be very 
stiff yet easily chewable; if too soft, boil a little longer; if too hard stir 
a little milk or water into it. When the right degree of stiffness is 
obtained add vanilla, mix, and pour on a greased cold slab or pan and 
set in a cool, dry place. When cold, the candy can be cut with knife or 
scissors into pieces and wrapped in waxed paper. Nut meats or bitter 
chocolate (2 to 3 ounces) may be added with the vanilla. 



1920] THE VALUE OF AN ALLOWANCE 503 

It is best to use a good-sized paddle, 10 to 12 inches long, in order to 
prevent bums from the foaming and spattering while the candy is 
cooking. 

Sail waler lafy kisses. Sugar, 2 ounces; maltose sirup, 8 ounces; 
butter, 1 ounce; water, 2 tablespoonfuls; pinch of salt. 

Boil sugar, water and sirup to hard ball, stirring sufTiciently to prevent 
scorching; add and stir in salt and butter; test as for caramels; pour on 
greased, cold slab or pan; finish like the molasses kisses. 

This candy can be made any color and flavor by adding coloring and 
flavoring just before or during pulling. 

For chocolate kisses add 1| ounces bitter chocolate. 



THE VALUE OF AN ALLOWANCE 

The following slalement of the child's point of view in regard to an allow- 
ance was written by a high school sophomore in Wisconsin as reported in 
" Homemaking in Wisconsin." Parents should read it with care.— 
The Editor. 

A child likes to have some spending money that is really his own. 
He Ukes to know that it is his to spend as he will, and that he may save 
some of it if he can, and so start a bank account of his own. The child's 
parents may furnish a means of gratifying this desire by giving him an 
allowance. 

The allowance may be given weekly or monthly, whichever way seems 
better. If the allowance is a small one, it must not be expected, of 
course, to cover the child's clothing expenses, but only to cover the 
school and miscellaneous expenses. 

The value of an allowance is great. It teaches the child to carefully 
manage his finances, and not to go beyond his means. He knows that 
when his allowance is gone, he can have no more, until the next "pay 
day" comes. He, alone, will be responsible for the way he spends his 
money, and the parents should advise him not to spend it foolishly. 
Another benefit derived from an allowance is that the child will appre- 
ciate the value of money, and should then learn to spend it wisely. He 
will probably try to save a little of his allowance every week, to put into 
the bank, and this is a habit which should be encouraged, as it teaches 
him to make provision for the future. — Helen Wind. 



504 THE JOURNAL OK HOME ECONOMICS [November 

COST OF LIVING IN CANADA 

NOKMAN S. RANKIN 

Based upon the figures of the Labor Gazelle of Ottawa a comparative 
chart of the cost of li\ang in the fourteen principal cities of Canada 
has been prepared by the Vancouver Sun, which furnishes a very inter- 
esting record. After careful computation the average family is taken 
to consist of five persons, and the weekly family budget includes meats, 
groceries, fuel and light, clothing and rent. Following is a list of cities 
in their order of high prices: Regina, St. John. Winnipeg, Toronto, 
Ottawa, Hamilton, Calgary, Halifax, Quebec, Montreal, \ancouver, 
Victoria, Westminster. 

For the families studied, rent in 1919 was highest in Regina, with an 
average of $8.08 per week, and lowest in St. John, with $3.46. The 
largest increase in rent during the period was in the city of \'ic- 
toria where the weekly amount rose from $3.23 to $4.61, or $1.38. 
Halifax rose $1.15, Toronto 0.92, Westminster, 0.82, St. John, 0.46, 
and Hamilton, 0.30. Other cities remained the same with the excep- 
tion of Ottawa which registered the only drop, one of 0.23. 

Fuel and Hght were highest in Regina, where they formed an average 
item of $3.43 in the family's weekly expenditure, and lowest in Cal- 
gary amounting to the sum of $2.09 per week. The average increase 
throughout the fourteen cities was 42 cents. The only drop in ex- 
penses of this kind was one of 13 cents in Hamilton, where this item 
in the weekly account fell from $3.51 in 1918 to $3.38 in 1919. 

The grocery bill in 1919 came highest in \'ictoria with an item of 
$10.23 in the family weekly account, though Halifax ran a close second 
with $10.14. Groceries were apparently lowest in Hamilton, with 
$8.09 only being. deducted each week from the family income for the 
grocery bill. The average increase in the cost of groceries per week 
over the fourteen cities was nearly 65 cents, the highest increase being 
$1.30 in Winnipeg and the lowest 41 cents in Calgary. Halifax and 
Victoria also saw increases of more than a dollar in this item. 

The weekly family expenditure for the items given ranged, in 1918, 
from a minimum of $19.17 in \'ictoria to a maximum of S26.49 in 
Regina, and in 1919, from a minimum of $21.85 in Westminster to a 
maximum of $28.55 in Regina. 



1920] MUSIC IN THE HOME 505 

.MUSIC IX THE HOME 

The Peabody Conservatory of Music in Baltimore has conducted a 
class in chorus singing for children, meeting each Saturday morning dur- 
ing several seasons. The spontaneity and joy of the children who flock 
to this class and the fact that many who show some talent and can give 
more time are found in the advanced class the next year are e\adence of 
the success of the plan. Mrs. Henrietta Baker Lowe, the instructor, in 
a talk before the Child Welfare Club, suggested the following ways in 
which the musical taste of children might be developed, and gave a 
valuable bibhography. 

Have a musical "grace" at meals. Sing a musical good night "round." 
Give musical books and books on music for presents. 

Let the elders set the example of singing ever\T\'here, especially while 
busy about the house. Let the elders discuss music, go to the music store 
and buy music and records. 

Have the children learn new songs beautifully for surprises. Encour- 
age the older children to teach new songs to the younger. 

Have the several members of the family study difTerent instruments 
so as to make a family ensemble. 

Sing at picnics and while walking. Use singing games for the younger 
children. 

Have a talking machine with good records. Sing softly with talking 
machine with a good voice record. 

See that children sing what they have learned at school. 

BIBLIOGR.'\PHY* 

I. For singing to young children and for children to learn: 

Mother Goose's Nurserj' Rhymes. Elliott, 50 cents. 

Songs for a Little Child's Day. Eleanor Smith. Milton Bradley Co. SI. 50. 

Records. Mother Goose, Victor No. 170(M; Baa, Baa, Black Sheep, Xo. 17937, 85 
cents; Lilts and Lyrics, No. 17686, 85 cents. Sing softly, pitch high, sing rhyth- 
mically and rather fast. 

Marching and Free Movement: 
Rhythm and .\ction. Norton. Oliver Ditson, $1.00. 

Records. Victor 18216 and 64201. March, hop, run, skip, fly, just as music sug- 
gests. 

Singing Games. 
Children's Old and New Singing Games. Mari Ilofcr. Flan.igan Co., Chicago. 
Record. Mulberry Bush, 17104 (see above). 

•A list of books, records, and suggestions has been compiled and will be mimeographed 
for distribution. If 100 people want it, it can be done at little cost, five cents a copy 
probably. Write to Mrs. Lowe at tlic Peabody Conser\'ator>'. 



5()f) Tin; JOURNAL OF IKJMK KCONOMics .November 

II. Songs for uUUt children to sing: 

Grammar Scliool Song Book. larnsworlli. Scribncr & Co., 7.5 cenU. 

Songs of Camp Kirc Girls. .N'cidlingcr. Camp Fire Outfitting Co., 32 W. 24th 
St., .\. v., 2.S cents. 

Songs for Beginning Alto (Records on request). Congdon Primer No. I\'. — Charles 
H. Congdon, 200 Sth Ave., N. Y. Let mother or older friends at first sing the 
alto, with children singing soprano softly so as to hear both voices. 

Hoy Scouts Hook. C. C. Birchard & Co., Boston. 

III. Songs for the family (children singing choruses and easy parts). 

Twice 55 Songs. C. C. Birchard & Co. Buy a half-dozen so that each person has 

one. 
Songs with Violin. Half Dollar Series. Ditson & Co. 
Hymnals for .\merican Youth. Century Co. 
Children's Uymnal. Kleanor Smith, .\merican Book Co. 
College Songs. Ditson & Co. 
Sample Records: 

89093 Kiddle and I, $2.00 

45064 Spring Song, $1.00 [ From songs with violin. 

17532 Si.'t Songs, $0.85 

45135 (2 songs) $1.00 

45114 (2 songs) $1.00 
Community Singing Records (see Victor Catalog) are good accompaniments to sing 

with. There are five records containing from 2 to 4 songs — each S5 cents. The 

music is in "Twice 55 Songs." 

See also Boola Song (16860) — 85 cents. 

IV. Family music collections and books about music: 

I'amily music book. Schirmer, $2.50. 

Half Dollar Series (collections of all kinds). Ditson. 

Home Circle (collections of all kinds). Fischer. 

Books of Musical Knowledge. Elson. Houghton MiiBin, $3.50 

Making the Family Musical. Famsworth. Macmillan. 



From buttoning shoes to washing dishes, there is an easy and an awk- 
ward way of doing all work. Recent experiments made by the Office of 
Home Economics of the United States Department of Agriculture show 
that the easy way actually saves energy. 

It was found in the homely everyday task of dish washing that, when 
a woman washed dishes on a table so low that she was obliged to bend 
over, her energy output was 30 calories per hour. Washing dishes on 
a table that was a little too high for comfort required 25 calories per 
hour, while only 21 calories were used when the working surface was 
of the right height. 



EDITORIAL 

The Textile Section contributed the following papers and reports 
as part of the program of the meeting of the Association at Colorado 
Springs. 

Miriam Birdseye, chairman of the standardization committee, pre- 
sented the general plan made by this committee and a review of the 
excellent work accomplished by them during the year, including the 
large scale test for silk (petticoats made of standardized silk) , the small 
piece of silk test, cotton and serge testing, and the purchasing habits 
questionnaires. 

Paul T. Cherington, of Boston, discussed textile legislation, includ- 
ing the five textile bills introduced in the last Congress; the present pow- 
ers of the Federal Trade Commission to protect the consumer; state laws, 
now operative, affecting textiles; the tyj3c of legislation needed and rea- 
sons for needing it; and how home economics women can help with textile 
legislation. 

A discussion of cooperation between the textile laboratory and the 
mercantile world was presented by Grace Denny of the University of 
Washington. 

Ethel Phelps of the University of Minnesota gave the report of a 
study of clothing purchasing habits. 

The need of teaching design in home economics was presented by 
Virginia Alexander of the College of Industrial Arts, Denton, Texas. 

A discussion of short cuts in teaching clothing, by Celestine Schmidt, 
was illustrated with lantern slides. 

A paper on the conduction of heat by textile fibers and the relative 
rate of absorption, and the rate of evaporation of water, was presented 
by Florence Caton of the University of Missouri. 

A report from the committee on research on textiles was presented by 
Mabel Trilling of the University of Chicago, chairman. The mono- 
graph on analysis of home economics texts and courses of study will be 
available as soon as arrangements can be made for printing. Several 
interesting topics were announced on which research work is at present 
being done. 

507 



508 TiiK JOURNAL OK HOME ECONOMICS (November 

A report of the committee asking cooperation of moving picture pro- 
ducers, in imjiroving the quality of home Interiors, was sent by Florence 
Winchcll of the Lincoln School, Xew York City, chairman. It was 
decided to ask Miss \\'inchcll to continue this work and to report further 
progress at the next annual meeting. 

Lillian Peek, State Super\isor of Home Economics. Texas, reported 
a summary of a girls' clothing contest, successfully carried out in Texas, 
in connection with which it was possible to establish a demand for shoes 
with sensible heels for school wear. 

Work for the coming year as outlined by the Section, includes an 
effort to establish cooperation with merchants in furthering textile 
standardization, and the continuation of some unfinished work started 
by the standardization committee during the past year. 

The oflicers for the coming year are: Chairman, Lillian Peek. State 
Supervisor of Home Economics, Austin, Texas; Secretary, Ethel Phelps, 
University of Minnesota. 

Ethel L. Phelps, 
Secretary, Textile Section. 

THE OPEN FORUM 

To the Editor of the Joxtrnal: 

As a grateful reader of Mrs. Max West's valuable and timely article 
in the August number of the Journal, I desire publicly to thank her for 
bringing into the open, with so much tact, a matter of national impor- 
tance. The question she asks in "If Not, Why Not." may, it seems to 
me, be summarized under three heads: What is the real purpose of 
education? Should that part of it carried on in schools and colleges 
be identical for the sexes? For what reason, at the present moment, 
are young people crowding into colleges and universities? In submitting 
these questions for our consideration Mrs. West illuminates them 
with many suggestive comments, to which I venture to offer a modest 
contribution, in the hope of arousing a discussion which shall result in 
a well considered, productive re\asion of some existing and outworn 
conventions. 

The whole matter seems to me primarily to depend upon the correct 
adjustment of certain values, to which an essential preliminary' is the 
training of public opinion to a better balanced comprehension of their 
relative worth. 



1920] OPEN FORUM 509 

First, must come the realization that education is a tripartite process 
(body-mind-spirit), life long, and continuous. 

Second, to this must be linked the conviction that, as home and social 
life are more potent as character forming influences than are teachers, 
schools, or colleges, preparation for their right conduct and direction 
must constitute an important element in any educational curriculum. 

Third, the fact must be grasped that the real purpose of education is 
not book learning or dollar earning, but the balanced development of 
each individual, organized training in the light of the world's experience 
in the control of self and of environment and in respect for the rights of 
others. The tendency for years past has been to foster an unbalanced 
curriculum in schools and colleges, unduly concentrated on "bread and 
butter" ends (under multiple disguises it is true), and to overlook the 
essential counterpoise which is found in the study of rightful conditions 
of domestic and social life, in the absence of which successful bread earn- 
ing suH'ers a serious and too often fatal handicap. An ill balanced 
curriculum results, of course, in an ill balanced product. Individualism 
is exaggerated and yet coexists with an almost morbid gregariousness. 
Individual independence (miscalled liberty) is quaintly coupled with 
dependence upon "crowd" conditions and slaverj' to public opinion. 
The attainment of "civic worth," in its turn dependent largely on home 
standards, should be the ultimate aim of educational institutions, but, 
so much confused are educational values today, that self advancement 
by means of financial independence counts for more in the eyes of the 
masses. Hence the anxiety felt by the thoughtful as to whether ade- 
quate opportunities to correct this misapprehension by those who scheme 
the curriculum are ofTered to the adolescent population who crowd col- 
lege class rooms. 

To what degree the real purpose of education is ignored by the aver- 
age parent is well brought out by Mrs. West, when she refers to 
the handing over, at five years of age, to "young girls, irresponsible, 
inexi^erienced, untrained," those little bundles of unsolidified habits, our 
future citizens in the making. If to understand and respect the rights 
of others be a primary object of education, it is ob\aous that so far it 
has not been attained ; or the rights of these children would be respected 
in this among other matters of enduring importance. To right this 
wrong calls for a readjustment of values by means of a truer conception 
of human development and its needs, to which greater prominence 
ought to 1)0 given in college courses. Perhaps the recent rapid growth 



510 THE JOURNAL OF iiOMK ECONOMICS [\ovember 

of interest in child welfare will result in the revision of existing text 
books of anatomy and physiology ; so that the conventional, ageless, 
sexless presentation of their subject matter may give place to new edi- 
tions, in which a recital of the numerous subtle divergencies which dis- 
tinguish the mature male and female bodies may be preceded by a 
review of the widely different and ever changing tissues and proportions 
of the infant and child. Such knowledge floods with light existing 
problems of child life in home and school, and thereby emphasizes the 
importance of parents as the nation's most numerous and influential 
educational agents. A further result would also surely be a wider dif- 
ferentiation in the educational curriculum of boys and girls after ten 
years of age. 

A careful study of the play interests of school children, which I car- 
ried out some years ago, brought me con\-incing but unforeseen exidence 
of the ever increasing differentiation of interests and of attitude towards 
environment which occurs in boys and girls after the fifth or sixth year, 
in more marked degree with each succeeding year. I gravely question 
whether the tradition of coeducation makes adequate allowances for the 
development of such normal divergencies of powers and interests. 
The male and female organisms are complementary to each other; to 
dovetail their parts into a compact whole calls, not for uniformity in 
development, but for intelligent diversity'. It was essential for women 
to prove, during their struggle to regain the right of equal educational 
opportunities with men, that they could follow the same college courses 
and attain to the same degree standards as their brothers. Happily, 
having pro\cd their case, this demonstration is no longer necessary'. 
But women, being the most conservative element in the world, are slow 
to perceive this fact, and the majority of the favored few to attain to 
college advantages seem content either to follow courses schemed to 
equip men for their various careers or merely to utilize freshman and 
sophomore work,' designed for such ends, as more or less unsatisfactory 
bases for their own special callings. This undignified position of "hang- 
ers on" is detrimental alike to the race and to the indi\idual; to the race, 
because it detracts from the dignity and enormous influence of woman's 
share in national well-being and her powerful claim to have every con- 
ceivable assistance in preparation to fullill her national duties; to the 
individual because at this stage of her development a girl is liable to 
hold in low esteem the relativel)' few courses conventionally offered to 
women only and to consider as of poor quality the special studies con- 



1920] OPEN FORUM 511 

cemed with that vast, comprehensible, and highly exacting subject — 
the right care of human life in the home. The inevitable monotony and 
usually solitary methods of its domestic practice do not appeal to that 
common tjpe today which finds stimulus only in company and pleasure 
outside the home circle. 

I cannot but believe that were the fundamental importance of all 
branches of home economics once grasped (I here refer to its many ex- 
pressions in trade and municipal undertakings as well as in the home), 
its future exponents would be offered the amplest opportunities for its 
study in every institution for higher education ; and courses in chemistry, 
physics, biology, sociology, and so forth, organised for students of agri- 
culture or engineering, would not be considered abundantly adequate 
for the "moulders of men" in the nation's homes. The records of his- 
tory afford a wealth of sound e\'idence that the quality of human life 
and the character of the homes in which it is reared and maintained 
underlie every international struggle, as well as every local industrial 
crisis or social problem. 

The causes for the unpopularity of homemaking, reflected in these 
condoned conditions are too numerous and intricate to analyze here and 
now. The obscurity in which the homemakcrs' cnonnous economic 
worth to the nation is involved bulks largely among these. The census 
classes them as unemployed, a dire sarcasm in truth, yet shared by 
the vast majority of the population. The position of "hired help" is 
still encumbered by feudal tradition; the whole question of house service 
is a tangle of economic origin, which women, the victims, whether as 
served or server, are too cowardly to unravel, and merely bewail what 
their own inertia is content to countenance. Why do not the leaders 
of the Home Economics Movement "grasp the nettle" and weave it 
into the mantle which shall neutralize the spite of the malignant fairy 
godmother of discord and strife through the readjustment of fake values? 
Incidentally I am convinced our whole presentation of home economics 
must be far more from the sociological side than hitherto; and in all 
courses in sociology there should be more attention given to the wide- 
reaching influences on national health and industrial prosperity of 
women's exacting duties and economic contributions in the home. Apart 
from the intelligent cooperation of men, women's burdens of national 
responsibilities in matters domestic become unbearable ; and therein lies 
another reason for the growing eagerness of our girls to pursue less onerous 
callings. 



512 TUK JOURNAL OK iioMK KCONOMics (Novcmbcr 

Here 1 shall be nniindcd of the right of all women to qualify in some 
self supporting calling and of the diversities of human gifts, which with 
equal justice, demand special training for their highest development. 
My recognition of both claims is as syinpathetic as it is whole-hearted. 
Civilization itself depends upon the skilled contributions of every form 
of human capacity, apart from the unwholesome social and economic 
conditions which exist where a nation's women folk are condemned to a 
life of crippling dependence on the earnings of one section of the com- 
munity. It is just here that the problem propounded for us by Mrs. 
West, appals us by its myriad ramifications. Are we therefore down- 
hearted as to its solution? No— x-niphatically no. Let us start in at 
once — some of us — to formulate it first; seek out and classify its sources; 
then carefully consider their best fonn of removal; finally, present our 
case to the presidents of colleges and universities so that, with the 
strength of their cooperation, we may appeal to the public for its indis- 
pensable aid in that readjustment of \'alues which shall recognize that 
the uplift and betterment of human life is the real aim of education. 

Essential as it is to earn a living and important as it is to equip the 
youth of a nation for this purpose, the living wiO lack satisfaction unless 
the quality of the livers be A 1. This quality depends on home stand- 
ards; a C 3 population is the product of C 3 homes. To attain the A 1 
standard, our girls, who are the coming administrators of home life, 
need the best training our best colleges can afford in the sciences and arts 
upon which domestic crafts are supported; the process of effective prepa- 
ration abounds in opportunities for ''brain stretching" as well as for 
individual development along a wide variety of lines. It only remains 
for us who believe to shake oft' our inertia, our tacit acceptance of what 
is, and give ourselves no rest until we have materialized the "what might 
be." It is not for economic competition with their brothers that we 
urge girls to attend college; it is not for immediate economic independ- 
ence and relief from the restraints of the family circle that the doors of 
our universities have been thrown open to them; but to afford them 
rightful opportunities for self development on the one hand and of 
essential equipment for their highly dignified national responsibihties 
on the other. If their ideals are faulty, if their sense of values is defec- 
tive, let us ask ourselves with whom does the fault lie, under whose influ- 
ence did their sense of relative values develop? 

Alice Ravenhill. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



The American Home Diet. By E. V. Mc- 

CoLLUM and Nina Simmonds. Detroit, 

Mich.; Frederick C. Mathews Co., 1920, 

pp. 237. S3.50. 

The authors' aim in this boolc is to present 
in non-technical language for the housewife 
the modem theories of nutrition. In Part I 
considerable space has been given to a de- 
scription of the results of faulty diets as 
observed in animal e.xperimentation and in 
human nutrition. Reasons are given "for 
the superiority of certain combinations of 
foods over others" and evidence offered 
"that the regular use of proper combinations 
of our common foodstuffs is the keynote to 
the successful feeding of the family." It is 
this definite and easily understood state- 
ment of the senior author's theories of diet 
that has made them so widely accepted. 

One chapter is given to the discussion of 
the "Dietary Properties of the More Impor- 
tant American Foodstuffs." Another chap- 
ter, " Dangerous Foods and the Care of Food 
in the Home, " includes such subjects as 
mushroom poisoning, oxalic acid in plants, 
sources of food infection, care of milk, im- 
pure water, botulism, canned milk and milk 
powders, dangers from raw food, safety and 
esthetic standards in food. 

Special consideration is given to the feed- 
ing of young children, pregnant women, and 
nursing mothers. 

Part II of the book contains menus for 
365 days of the year. Illustrations are also 
given of menus unsatisfactory for the pro- 
motion of health and of ways of modifying 
these by the addition of "protective foods- 
milk, eggs, and leafy vegetables." It might 
be questioned whether some of the changes 
suggested in the menus are necessary. For 
example, would the small amounts of milk 
and egg added when salmon crocjucttcs arc 
served instead of plain canned salmon give 



an increase in food value commensurate 
with the labor involved? Would not the 
cream of com soup ser\'ed in the same meal 
be sufiicient, especially if served in generous 
portions? 

The following of such a schedule of menus 
would probably be inconvenient in most 
households. It would seem that a state- 
ment of the approximate amounts of "pro- 
tective foods" deemed necessary would be 
even more helpful than the menus. If the 
ordinary practice of serving small portions 
of the vegetables and salads were followed, 
even the use of these menus might not pro- 
vide a satisfactory diet. 

The statement that there is "no danger 
that a normal person in health will fail to 
eat enough where lood is available and pre- 
sented in an attractive form" is not tme in 
the case of many children, as the mothers 
well know. It sometimes requires much 
patience and ingenuity to teach children to 
eat vegetables, and even to drink milk. Fre- 
quently, if left to themselves, they would 
eat too little. 

The book will be exceedingly valuable to 
housewives and to those who are interested 
in giving popular instruction in the selection 
of food. The matirial is presented in a 
simple, definite, and interesting manner. 

FUZABETB W. MiLLES. 

Dietetics for High Schools. By Florence 

WiLLARD AND LuCY H. GlLLETT. New 

York: The Macmillan Company, 1920, pp. 

201. 

This book is a distinct contribution to the 
very small group of elementary textbooks in 
nutrition. It is unique in being the first 
book to give a scientific presentation of die- 
tetics especially for high school students. It 
contains a clear and concise description of 
"our dependence on food" (Chapter I); "a 

513 



514 



THE JOURNAL OF HOifE ECONOMICS 



[Novenilicr 



standard for measuring food — the caloric" 
(Chapter II); and discusses very simply and 
practically energy reciuircmcnts in general 
and the sources and functions of proteins, 
fats, carbohydrates, mineral elements, and 
vitamines (Chapters lII-\ .). Adjustment of 
diet to different ages and conditions is pre- 
sented under the general heading Feeding 
the Irving I'^amily, which consists, besides 
father and mother, of a baby a year old, 
three boys aged three, seven, and sixteen 
years, respectively, and two girls, one ten 
and one f ou rteen years old These children 's 
individual needs furnish the keynote for 
separate chapters on Food for the Haby; 
Food for Children from One to Five ^■ears 
of Age; Food for School Children and Adults. 
Planning the meals for the whole family is 
presented as Mrs. Irving's problem, which 
involves the market order and general econ- 
omy in buying food, 'fhe appendbt includes 
Diet for .Vbnormal Conditions (a section 
better omitted from a book of this type) 
and a few brief tables of food values. 

The work is accurate and up-to-date. The 
proints are supported and illustrated by suit- 
able tables and charts in such number as to 
constitute a unique feature of a beginner's 
book in nutrition. Through these the quan- 
titative aspects of nutritional problems are 
fully emphasized and a distinctly scientific 
attitude maintained. Some of the tables 
(e. g., pages 57, 92, 116 and 117) are rather 
complicated, and will require careful treat- 
ment by teachers to secure their interpreta- 
tion and use by the student. Practical 
problems to be assigned to students are lib- 
erally interspersed throughout the text and 
a few carefully selected reading references 
are given at the end of each chapter. 

This book is designed for serious study 
and depends upon this intensive work for 
its interest. The "popular" feature of the 
Irving family does not mitigate the fact that 
the book, taken as a whole, is technical and 
leaves the teacher abundant opportunity to 
furnish illustration and inspiration. One 
specially commendable feature is the fact 
that it may be used quite as appropriately as 
a textbook for boys as for girls. 

Mary Swartz Rose, 

Teachers College. 



Molher and Child. Vol. 1, No. 1, June, 
1920. Published by the .'Vmcrican Child 
Hygiene Association, 121 1 Cathedral St., 
Haltimore. S2.00 a year; 25 cents a 
copy. 

This new magazine, concerned with the 
health of the mother and child, is of interest 
to all home economics workers. Its purpose 
is to present information on what is being 
done on special needs and problems in the 
field of child hygiene. 

The articles in the first number include; 
Supcr\ising the Child of Pre-School Age, 
Robert D. Curtis, M.D.; A Fairy Health 
Teacher, Mrs. John Collier; Neo-.Natal 
.Mortality, Sir Artliur Newsholme, M.U.; 
Pre-N'atal Clinics in Paris, Fred L. .Vdair, 
M.D. 

Financial Record Book. By Mary Gearing 
AND Edythe p. Hershey. Published by 
the University of Texas, .\ustm, Texas, 
1919. 

This home account book gives a form 
which provides for a completely classified 
and itemized record of the income and out-go. 
In order to obtain this end the book is of 
necessity larger and more cumbersome than 
the ordinary household budget and account 
book. 

Instead of the common columnar form of 
classification the record is classified by pages, 
using the following headings: Income; Sav- 
ings; Housing; Operating Expenses; Food; 
Clothing; Health; Donations; Education; 
Recreation; Incidentals; and Summaries. 
Each page has columnar divisions to take 
care of subdivisions and items. 

The book has the advantage of being loose 
leaved. By discarding parts of the book, 
the keeping of the details of expenditure may 
be eliminated and only the more general 
summaries used. The book is flexible and 
can be adapted to the needs of various kinds 
of households, but the question always arises 
as to how much time the busy housewife can 
give or will give to making these adaptations. 
The book is most usable; it is not complex 
and it can be made to meet the needs of 
almost all households. 

Sarah J. MacLeod. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



A Health Campaign Launched. In the 
fall of 1919 the girls of the Home Economics 
Department of the Southeastern High 
School, Detroit, Mich., became interested in 
the Ellen H. Richards Memorial Fund. 

In order to send a contribution to the 
fund the Home Economics Department 
served two teas, had a candy sale, and made 
pies and orange marmalade, raising $34.77. 
Out of this they bought a large sepia picture 
of Mrs. Richards, and contributed the rest 
to the fund. 

In April, 1920, the advanced home science 
class voted to organize a club called the 
Ellen H. Richards Club. This is a service 
club to the school, like the Hi. Y. clubs of 
boys. The girls are living up to their motto 
"Eugenics and Euthenics" — right living and 
right thinking. During the week of June 7 
to 1 1 they carried on a health campaign, with 
the aid of Charlotte Keen, faculty advisor, 
and the honorary members, Doris Jean 
Holloway and Mr. Corns, principal of South- 
eastern High School. 

A number of charts and posters, collected 
from New York, Chicago, and Detroit, were 
displayed in the various grade rooms and 
corridors. The girls changed them around 
daily so that the pupils could see all of 
them. The subjects of these charts were: 
"Increased Use of Dairy Products," " Proper 
Food Combination," "Regularity of Meals," 
"Sleep," "Care of the Teeth," "Posture," 
and "Flies." 

The club girls — Rachel Bailey, Dorothy 
Brown, Marjorie Fcucht, Althea Gordon, 
Alice Harley, Georgia Kephart, Winifred 
Reid, and Florence VVixson — gave talks to 
advertise the campaign in their respective 
grade rooms. 

Clul) luncheons were made from the week's 
daily menus obtained from the cafeteria 
and placed on the boards daily. 



Something new was planned for each day. 
The first day opened with an exhibit in the 
cafeteria of a well and a poorly selected 
luncheon from that day's menu. The fol- 
lowing evening the club gave a movie con- 
sisting of two reels of pi>;turcs with health 
suggestions and also a Vivian Martin pic- 
ture. This was attended by the students 
and their parents. A table set for break- 
fast, lunch, and dinner, showing a day's 
diet for a higli school girl was placed in the 
corridor on the third day. The boys re- 
ceived their exhibit of a day's diet in the 
same manner on the ne.xt day. 

For a girl's "crowning glory" the club 
had an experienced hair dresser come out 
and give a talk and practical demonstration 
on the care of the hair and the dressing of it 
for various shaped faces. 

This is the first campaign of health car- 
ried on in the school and the club is very 
grateful for the cooperation of Mr. Corns, 
the faculty, and the various clubs of the city 
who so kindly helped to make this first ven- 
ture a success. The club is justly proud of 
this achievement and hopes to do bigger 
things in the future. 

The Department of Home Economics 
of the University of Missouri has been 
moved to temporary quarters in four differ- 
ent science buildings on one of the main 
campuses. The new home economics build- 
ing has been started and will be ready by 
September, 1921. 

The regular faculty has been retained for 
this year and the following new members 
have been appointed: Dorothy Arnold, 
Instructor in .-Vpplied Art, and Frances For- 
bush. Assistant in Trade Dressmaking, who 
were appointed last winter; Bertha Whipple 
who came to us last summer just after receiv- 
ing her M.A. degree from the University of 
515 



516 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



(NovembLT 



Chk'ugo; Susan Klukcy, wliu has luid cliargc 
of llic work at the University of Coluradu and 
comes to us this fall as assistant professor. 

The University of Cincinnati is offer- 
ing a niw course dialinj; willi the problems 
of SOX education that includes a study of 
the function of the home and other social 
institutions. 

Although especially and primarily in- 
tended for teachers, the course is also open 
to other groups, such as advanced students, 
social workers, ministers, leaders of Ijoys' 
and girls' clubs, persons preparing for Y. M. 
C. A. and Y. W. C. A. positions, recreation 
leaders, and leaders of parent-teachers' 
groups and mothers' clubs. 

The University of Maryland offers this 
year a two-year course in addition to the 
regular four-year course in home economics. 

Applicants for this course must be gradu- 
ates of an approved high school. Upon 
completion of the recjuircd work they will 
be granted a special diploma and will be 
eligible to receive a teacher's certificate 
from the State Department of Education, 
entitling the holder to teach home economics 
in the high schools of the state. 

Edna McNaughton, Professor of Home 
Economics Education, is in charge of the 
new course. 

A Home Economics School has been 
established at Campden, Gloucestershire, 
England, by the Ministry of .Agriculture, for 
teaching students and housewives how to 
preserve vegetables and fruits. Canning, 
drying, crystalizing, and jam, jelly and 
marmalade making are included, as well as 
methods of brining and pickling and the 
manufacture of pickles, sauces, chutneys, 
and fruit sirups and liqueurs. Two courses 
are offered: one for homemakers and one 
for commercial purposes; the former lasts 
two weeks, the student being required to 
select the processes in which instruction is 
desired. A charge of £2 10s. (S12.50) is 



made for tuition and matcrbls. .\ syllabus 
has l)ccn prepared for a teachers' course, 
which deals with the processes of fermenta- 
tion, decomi>osition, partial and complete 
sterilization, pasteurization, refrigeration, 
and other similar questions. 



i;dith M. Thomas has recently been ap- 
pointed State Supervisor of Home Econom- 
ics in North Carolina to succeed Edith Coith 
who is now Mrs. (Jeorgc Atkinson of Salis- 
bury, X. C. 

Florence I'owdcrmakcr has resigned from 
her position in the School of Hygiene, Johns 
Hopkins University, to become Specialist in 
Nutrition for the State of New Jersey. 

The U. S. Civil Service Commission v/iU 
hold a competitive examination for domestic 
science teachers for the Indian Ser\'ice on 
Nov. 17 and Dec. 15, 1920 For further 
information write to the U. S. Civil Service 
Commission, Washington, D. C. 

.•\n .\ll-.\merica Conference on X'enereal 
Diseases is to be held in Washington, Dec. 
6 to 11, 1920, under the auspices of the U. S. 
Interdepartmental Social Hygiene Board, 
the U. S. Public Health Service, the Ameri- 
can Red Cross, and the .American Social 
Hygiene Association. The problems of edu- 
cation and of social influences in the control 
of disease and in relation to marriage will 
form part of the program. 

The Manchester Guardian of I'riday, 
.Aug. 13, 1920, reports that the English 
Ministry of .Agriculture, with the approval 
of the Treasury, has appointed Dame 
Meriel Talbot, D. B. E., to be Woman 
.Adviser to the Ministry. The object of this 
appointment is that the fullest use may be 
made of women's experience, interest, and 
work in the agricultural and rural life of tt-e 
country. 



Vol, Xn, No. 12 December, 1920 

THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

For those interested in Homemaking, Institution Management, 
and Educational Work in Home Economics 

Mrs. Auce P. Noeton, Editor Keturah E. Baldwin, Buiineis Editor 

Editorial Board 
Mrs. Masy H. Abel C. F. Lanoworthy Amy Daiuels Roth Wheeler Violet Ryley 

Ex-Officio i/emfcefj— Mary E. Sweeny, President American Home Exonomics Association 
NoLA Treat, Chairman InstitutioD Economics Section 
Minna Denton, Chairman Science Section 
Ola Powell, Chairman Extension Education Section 
Lillian Peek, Chairman Textile Section 

Collaborators— -Tht Officere, Members of the Council, and Advisors 



CONTENTS 

The Food or the Immigrant in Relation to Health 

Michael M. Davis, Jr. and Berllia M. Wood 517 

Teaching American Table Service to Americans 5. Deborah Haines 524 

The Publicity Work of the DEPARTxnsNT of Agricdltuke in Relation to Home Economics 

Barlan Smith 527 

The Present Statits of the Home Economics Amendment to the Vocational Education 

Bill Louise Stanley 535 

For the Homemaker 

General Rules for Choosing Oven Temperatures Minna C. Denton 541 

Is it the Many or the Few Who Ha\e Changed? 544 

A Score Card for Farm Dwellings Alice Potiller 545 

Eight Hour Service 548 

A Lesson in Costume Design 549 

Editorial 550 

The Open Forum 551 

Books and Literature 553 

News from the Field 555 



The Jodrnal of Houe Economics is published monthly by the American Home Economics Association 
$2.00 A YEAR. FOREIGN 12.35. CANADIAN $2.20. SINGLE COPIES 25 CENTS 

HOW TO REMIT. Remittances should be tent by Check, Eipress Order or Postal Money Order, payable to the 
American Home Economics Association. Currency unless mailed in a registered letter is at the sender's risk. 

NOTICE, When payment is m8dc(by check no receipt will be sent unless requested. 

CHANGE IN ADDRESS. Notice of change in address should be sent two weeks before the dale of issue on which 
the change is to take elTect. The subscriber's Old Address should be clearly indicated in addition to the New Address. 

AMERICAN HOiME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION 1211 Cathedral St., Baltimore, Md. 

Tbx Journal or Hour. Econouics is on sale at John Wanamaker's, Philadelphia: The Old Comer Book Store, noatoo: 
A, C. McClurg's, Chicago; Baltimore News Company, Baltimore; Woodward and Lothrop, Washington. 



jovRSAi. OF nouF. ecoxoincr-ADrrFTrrrxtryT^ 




■^ 



VSrVTL 




Made from 

Cream of Tartar 

derived from 

Grapes 

CONTAINS 
NO 

ALUM 




THE KEYSTONE 
OF GOOD BAKING 

Your biscuits, rolls, gems and! olher dtiinly 
bread-stuffs can be no betlcr ihan the bulk- 
ing powder ■wiln vi'bich they are nuide. 
Good bilking powder is tbe leavening agent 
tbal makes them ligbt and digestible. It is 
the keystone in the making of appetizing, 
wholesome cake, biscuits, muffins, etc. 

Q)i course, you want only the best of bak- 
ing powder, and this is always assured 
when you use 

ROYAL 
Baking Powder 



In vs-ritiag advertisers, please mention Journal of Home Economics 



THE 

Journal of Home Economics 

Vol. XII DECEMBER, 1920 No. 12 

THE FOOD OF THE IMMIGRANT IN RELATION TO HEALTH' 

MICHAEL M. DAVIS, JR. AND BERTHA M. WOOD 
The Boston Dispensary 

DIETARY BACKGROUNDS 

Most of our friends from other countries come to America in the very 
cheapest way, and are unaccustomed to travel. They leave home with 
many of their cooking utensils in a cloth bag and continue their house- 
keeping on shipboard in the steerage, feeding their children and them- 
selves from stores brought from home. Almost their first thought on 
landing is something to eat, and this fact places food in the first rank of 
importance in our plans for .\mericanization. Their first impression of 
America is often gotten in a poorly housed restaurant, whose proprietor 
is of their nationality. From him they learn where to get some of their 
native foods, both raw and cooked. 

Usually they establish their homes in neighborhoods or colonics of 
their own country people. Here there is no opportunity to know about 
American foods, raw or in combination, or the kind and amount of foods 
needed in a day's dietary under the new living conditions. Even they 

' This material in somewhat altered form will appear as part of a book on Immigrant 
Health .-ind the Community, to be published shortly by Harper & Brothers, Xew York, as 
part of the .\mericanization Series. It is printed in the Journal by permission of Harper 
& Brothers. Chapters on the diet of the Poles, the Italians, and the Jews will follow in 
succeeding numbers of the Journal. 

Ihe series represents but a part of the material collected by Miss Wood in connection 
with the study made. Ihe entire result of the study will appear in book form at an 
early date with the addition of the following racial groups: Hungarians, Portuguese and 
Mexicans. 

517 



518 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS (December 

come from countries in which the climate is very different from this, 
they make no change in diet; or if their occupation here is more strenuous 
or less so, they do not take this into i onsideration. They have always 
eaten certain kinds of foods prepared in certain ways. Why change? 
There is no one to tell them; no one to show them which of theirs to keep, 
and which of this country's to adopt nor how to prepare them. They 
are probably more willing on their arrival than they will be at any later 
time to accept American help and suggestions. 

Their housing conditions are changed, their style of clothing must be 
changed; many of their social customs, as well as some of their religious 
ideals, must be given up; the only habit and custom which can be pre- 
served in its entirety is their diet. This is made possible because they 
fmd in .America, as in no other countr}-, all their native raw food materials. 

All human beings arc naturally gifted with more or less ability to pre- 
pare food for themselves when occasion requires. This aptitude does 
not necessarily help them to adjust tlieir diet to new conditions. They 
are willing to learn, but who will teach them? Who knows their foods?' 
How many and which ones shall they continue to use to meet their daily 
needs and new financial condition and responsibilities? \Miere shall they 
buy them? Even the cooking dishes are of a different tjpe from those 
which they have used. Which kind produces the familiar results? 

There is much that we may learn from these people with profit, and 
equally much for them to learn from us. If we then study their ways and 
customs and acquaint ourselves more and more with their foods, we 
shall be better able to help these foreign-born to adjust themselves to 
new conditions with as few changes as possible. 

During the influenza epidemic of 1918 it was plainly demonstrated 
that neither district nurses, settlement workers, nor visiting dietitians 
knew much about the foods of the foreign-born patients. Gallons of 
American soups and broths were served to these people only to be 
untouched and thrown out. This was at a time when diet might have 
meant much in furnishing resistance to the disease. In our hospitals and 
dispensaries we usually find only American foods prescribed for diets. 
Often it has been said, "They should learn to eat American foods if 
they are to live here." We may not all agree with this, but at least we 

' A search of the Hterature of the Dietetics of Foreign Peoples of the United States was 
made for this Study by Miss Margery M. Smith of the Department of Home Economics, 
Simmons College. The text citations and footnotes to these chapters include all she found. 
Its meaperness is apparent. 



1920] THE FOOD OF THE IMMIGRANT 519 

will agree that when a person is ill and needs a special diet, it is no time 
to teach him to eat new foods. It is like hitting a person when he is 
down. Our milk soups are nutritious but so are theirs; why not learn 
what they are and prescribe them?'' The same is true of other foods. 

It is much easier for the dietitian to learn the foods of the foreign-born 
than for these people to adjust their finances to a new dietary. Often 
their income is insufficient to buy their own foods which they know they 
like. Can we wonder that they hesitate to invest in food about which 
they are uncertain? 

A Bohemian family of father, mother, and six children, who were 
patients at a dispensary, were living (or staying) here on an income of 
twelve to sixteen dollars a week. It was necessary to get milk and cereals 
into the diet of the children, but who, without a knowledge of Bohemian 
foods, dare disturb that very limited amount available for food? 

Mrs. Angelo's husband is a printer, who earns seventeen dollars a 
week. They have seven children, the oldest a boy of eleven. Barbara, 
five years old, was very bowlegged and had to have her legs broken to 
straighten them. Three younger children were sent to a dispensary 
food clinic for diet to prevent their being bowlegged. It was necessary 
to have not less than two and one-half quarts of milk added to their 
food each day. The income was too small to allow for this, so the man 
got extra work at night to pay for the milk. This shows that they were 
willing to go at least half way in changing diet habits. There are certain 
diseases prevalent among the foreign-born people, due largely to their 
change of diet. When the diet is corrected the disease may be overcome. 

In the four chapters which follow a brief account is given, for each of 
four important race groups, of the conditions and dietary habits of the 
people in their own country, and of their food problems here, with some 
changes needed for health. Special reference is made to a few diseases 
in which diet is a factor and which are most frequently noted among 
the group by physicians, nurses, and social workers. 

Diets, for these diseases, and recipes are given for each nationaUty. 
These recipes use our American raw materials and many of the dishes 
made from them resemble ours so closely that only slight changes are 
necessary in the rules to produce a welcome diet for these people. 

A dietitian has never been so honored, in college or out, as she will be 
by these foreign-born people when once she talks to them of their familiar 
foods. An Armenian storekeeper found a fellow countryman, a chef in 
an Annenian restaurant, who was suffering from indigestion. He said 



520 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

to him, "Vou come with me. I take you to the smartest woman you 
ever knew. She know.s our foods, she tell you what to cat, you feel 
better." 

THE NEAR EAST (ARMENIANS, SYRI.VNS, TURKS, AND GREEKS) 

These interesting peoples, with their love for friend and neighbor, 
producers of works of art, dwellers in Clod's out-of-doors, taking shelter 
only when occasion demands, have much to give to any country.' 

Most of those who come to America have lived in the open country 
among the foothills of the mountains or on the high table-lands. A 
minority dwelt in the smaller cities. 

Early in March, in the home countrj^ the families change their mode 
of living from indoors to out in the open. This is the season for plowing 
and planting; meals are prepared and eaten out-of-doors and the eve- 
nings arc spent under the great canopy of blue and gold, with all the 
family and relatives telling the news of the day or exchanging stories. 
Some of these stories have been related many times before, but their 
familiarity makes them even more interesting. These people practically 
live out-of-doors until late in November, working in the fields or har- 
vesting their supplies. Then they change their occupations to difTerent 
lines of craft work. Many of their most interesting pieces of copper and 
brass arc tooled and etched during the winter months. Some of their 
wonderfully beautiful rugs are woven then. A pleasant pastime for 
the older women is the dyeing of the yarn from the vegetables gathered, 
a little of this color and a httle of that color being mixed to get just the 
shade desired to harmonize with the one artistic design in the mind of 
the weaver. It is difficult to distinguish between work and recreation 
among these people. So much of life is beauty to them. 

During the fanning season they raise sheep for food and clothing; 
goats and cows for milk, butter, and cheese; chickens, ducks, and geese 
for eggs; and grains, vegetables, fruits, and berries in abundance. Their 
wheat is thrashed in the fall, then taken to the one neighborhood caldron 
where it is boiled "until all germs arc killed," then spread out on great 
sheets of cloth to drj^ in the sun. After it has dried, it is ground between 
two great stones to difTerent degrees of fineness, according to its future 

' Comparison at some points in this chapter may be made with the Me.^cans, whose 
dietarj' problems deserve special study. See "Dietary Studies of Mexican Families in New 
Mexico." (Office of E.xperiment Stations Bulletin 40, 1897.) 



1920] THE FOOD OF THE IMMIGRANT 521 

use, then stored for winter or until next harvest. This grain is used in 
many different ways; it is even burned as incense. 

Olives, both ripe and green, are pickled and some are salted. Wines 
and raisins are made from grapes and the leaves of the grape vines are 
salted to be used later in wrapping dolmas. Figs and dates are pre- 
served in sugar with other fruits. Potatoes, squashes, onions, garlic, 
and other vegetables are put in pits in the ground, and at least three 
lambs are salted. In the Orient lamb is the principal meat used. Rice 
has a large share in the daily menu. The use of nuts with rice and meat 
adds an attractiveness to the diet. "Pine-cone seeds" or fustuck, hazel 
nuts or fanducks, chestnuts or kestanch, pistachio nuts and coriander 
seeds are many of the seeds referred to in Oriental recipes; cardamon 
seeds are frequently added to coffee. 

Chick peas or nohond, a product of Greece and Turkey, and fava, pakla, 
or horse beans are two of the leguminous plants of high food value. 
There are various wheat preparations in which the grain appears in 
different forms. 

In Eastern cookery not a single dish is dependent on the extravagant 
use of expensive and various ingredients which, when counted up, make 
food very expensive, but is dependent, and very much so, on the flavor 
of each different article used in the making. Oriental food is not highly 
spiced or flavored, but is a very fat diet. Butter is not eaten on bread, 
the fat in the food preparations being sufficient. The breakfast of these 
Easterners consists of black coffee and bread for the adult, and goat's 
milk and bread for the children. In some families cracked wheat is 
used as a cereal boiled with milk. 

The noon meal may be matzoun or curdled milk, with a "dressing" 
of pilaf. Matzoun or yoghourt is the famous beverage or soup of the 
Orient. It is served either hot or cold or sweetened with sugar. It is 
as valuable in their diet as buttermilk in ours. 

For the dinner or evening meal, shish kibab, lamb cut in walnut sized 
pieces and roasted on skewers, is a favorite form of serving meat. All 
vegetables are first fried in a small amount of olive oil or other fat, then 
boiled in meat stock. Sometimes tomato is added to give more flavor. 
Okra is never slimy and vegetables lose their "green" taste when first 
cooked in oil or other fat. 

When these people settle in America, their dietary' customs are con- 
tinued to a large extent, but milk becomes a luxurj' and fruit is not so 
plentiful. The amount of milk used when there are children is gener- 



522 THE JOURNAL OF HOUE ECONOMICS [December 

ally insuflScient because of the expense. It is rarely if ever bought in 
their home countries, and when it is the cost is only a few cents. 

A Syrian woman who had tubercular glands was advised to use one 
quart of milk a day. After being treated for some time, she showed no 
improvement, and it was discovered that she had not had the milk. 
When questioned why she did not take it she said, "The milk come in a 
bottle — I get it from the goat in my countrj'. The doctor ordered milk 
and I do not know what else is in the bottle; there must be something 
besides milk to make it cost so much." After all was explained and 
mUk ordered for the patient for a month, she began to improve, and then 
she was convinced that although we have an expensive way of obtaining 
it milk has the same virtue as in her own country. 

Wheat is used extensively, either whole or cracked, cooked in water 
until nearly done; then milk is added for the last few minutes' cooking. 
It was interesting to find during the war that these people were still able 
to secure wheat in its different degrees of coarseness. Even the candy, 
or sweetmeats, called "Medley" is made with wheat in it. 

Many of our finest fruit stores are owned by Greeks, Armenians, or 
Syrians. The men are seldom laborers; almost all choose commercial 
occupations, usually starting with a push cart of fruit, frequently bana- 
nas, and gradually working up a trade, buying a horse and wagon, then 
establishing a small store. Others are waiters in restaurants or have 
shoe-blacking stands. Some sell antique rugs, and clean and repair them. 

In the majority of these homes the men return for the mid-day meal. 
There are comparatively few Eastern women over here. Often an 
Easterner and his wife nm a restaurant and board a number of men. 
Sometimes a bulletin board is hung in these places upon which letters 
received from folks at home are posted for others besides the recipient 
to read. Eating at these restaurants is a very social occasion; the food 
is well cooked, although the ser^-ice lacks some of the conventionalities 
of this country. 

Because of the indoor occupations of these people their incomes are 
more regular than the incomes of those who are laborers, or do other 
seasonal work. 

WTiile among the Syrians, Armenians, Greeks, and Turks, we usually 
find the children well nourished, with plenty of growth material and min- 
eral matter in their diets, milk is not given in as large quantities as it 
should be and frmt is also found by them to be expensive. The under- 
nourished children especially need more milk in their diet. 



1920] THE FOOD OF THE IMMIGRANT 523 

A Greek boy was a patient at a dispensary and referred to a Food 
Clinic for a constipation diet. When questioned about the delicious 
orange compote the Greeks usually have two or three times a day on 
their tables in Greece, he said, "0 yes! My mother makes it but she 
keeps it for company. When she is out I crawl in the window and eat 
some on my bread. Oranges cost a lot for boys, my mother says." 

Frmts prescribed may be dried ones as well as fresh, but should be 
given as compotes, not "stewed" fruits. 

The green leaved vegetables are not used in cream soups, but are 
cooked in stock. This must be remembered in planning diets for chil- 
dren. When vegetables are prescribed, it is well to remember that the 
Oriental cooks them with olive oil. They are known as basdis and are 
used extensively with meat, or cooked in olive oil, or both. One of the 
best dishes for a patient with constipation is cabbage with meat — • 
Lohano Basidi-Kelom. 

Nephritis seems almost imknown among these people. A patient 
may have any of their cereal dishes made of wheat or rice and any of 
their green vegetables cooked in olive oil. 

Because of the large amount of rice and wheat used in the preparation 
of the Oriental foods it is difficult to give a diet hst for a diabetic patient. 
In prescribing noncarbohydrate vegetables cooked in olive oil, and lamb 
and chicken cooked on skewers, one is able to feel sure no rice or wheat 
is used. 

The tuberculosis patient needs milk added to the diet to be used 
instead of black coffee. 

Tzouvatzegh, the Armenian egg milk toast, is very good. Another 
common milk dish is bread buttered and served with a pitcher of hot 
milk. This is eaten as we eat bread and milk. 

The national dish of the Turks is "Pilaf," of the Armenians "Herissa." 
Both are good foods for the children. 

The Near-East's knowledge of food combinations and possibilities 
seems greater than that of any other peoples. It is generally supposed 
that their cookery is spicy, but it will be noticed, in looking over their 
recipes, that the cooking is rich because of the number of ingredients 
and not because of the use of condiments. 



524 niK j(>uRNAL OF HOME EcoNOuics [December 

TEACfflNG AMERICAN TABLE SERVICE TO AMERICANS 

S. DEBORAH HAIKES 
Professor of Foods ami Cookery, Oklahoma College for Wometi 

Some phases of home economics teaching have not been thoroughly 
Americanized. Meal serving has been taught in the past using very 
largely the English and Russian service, such as are in vogue in the best 
hotels in those countries, as the pattern. There the sers'ant plays an 
important r61e. Too little time has been spent upon teaching home 
table service where there is no attendant. Such ser\'ice is used in many 
of the best homes of our country-. Let us call it by its right name — 
American Table Service. 

The domestic service problem has a distinct bearing upon the form of 
table service used in the iVmerican home today. Since eighty to ninety- 
five per cent of our homes today ha\e no outside help, it is pertinent to 
ask if home economics teachers should hold up, as ideal, the home having 
one or more household employees. In teaching foreign service chiefly 
we are consciously or imconsciously doing so. The pecuniar}' and ethi- 
cal gains from having no employee in the home, though many, need not 
be discussed. The outstanding fact is that the great majority of families 
either do not want or cannot get such assistance. The practice house, as 
it is being conducted in so many schools throughout the United States, 
is meeting this condition in a practical way. Here, among many other 
things, the students are preparing and serving meals, under conditions 
quite similar to those in their own homes. Is this not a worthy ideal to 
hold before students? As a general educational poUcy, it is agreed that 
learning must be based upon the processes which will function in the 
student's life now and which connect with the situation in which the 
student has been and will be living. It follows that, although it is proper 
for students to have an understanding of foreign table ser\-ice, it is more 
important to understand how to prepare and serve a meal oneself, and at 
the same time play the part of hostess at the table. 

What is the teacher's part in this kind of a plan? WTien she taught 
foreign service, she usually gave rules for the particular service used; 
she may have ordered the supplies and announced the menu to be 
served. Sometimes instead of simplifj-ing the meal by lessening the 
number of dishes served, she tried to multiply them in order to have 
enough work to keep the entire class busy. In teaching American table 



1920] TEACHING AMERICAN TABLE SERVICE 525 

service she will divide the class into groups of not more than eight, so 
that conditions will be more like those of a family. There will be plenty 
of duties to keep all occupied, since the time is proportionately shorter 
for a large group. When several groups are working in the same labo- 
ratory, each group preparing a meal, a comparison of results is helpful. 

As teachers of home economics, we too often think that the student 
will acquire the easy way of doing things well after finishing school, and 
we spend our time teaching the difficult way of doing elaborate and often 
unnecessary things. What practical suggestions or general principles 
should the teacher give to the cookery class that will help the students 
meet actual home problems? A partial outline follows: 

Menu making. The number of dilTerent kinds of food should be fewer 
than are often served, and the one-dish meal (nevertheless a balanced 
ration) should be more studied and used. 

Frequently two or three green vegetables are served at the same time. 
This robs the following meals of variety and makes extra work. An 
extra serving of the same dish gives equally good results. The same, 
in general, is true of starchy foods. 

The nutritional requirements, and not the individual eccentricities, 
should be studied. 

The number of courses served should be smaller, usually not more 
than two. 

Convenience in llie home. Houses should be planned so that meals 
may be served near the place in which they are prepared. The break- 
fast room with its printed doilies has come to stay and is rightly used 
for other meals besides breakfast. 

The wheeled tray helps when ser\ing must be done less conveniently 
to the kitchen. It is also a convenience in changing plates. Soup dishes 
may be removed to the tray before the second course. 

Waiting upon the table. A large amount of waiting upon the table 
may be eliminated by forethought in laying the table, and in planning 
the menu. WTiatever is needed should be provided as quietly and as 
inconspicuously as possible. 

Hospitality. The feeling of mutual responsibility in the family group 
for the success of the meal is one of the tests of an ideal family. This 
feeling is the foundation upon which American table service fails or 
rises to its perfection. Hospitality is the natural outgrowth of sharing 
family responsibility. Greater simplicity when entertaining will make 
it possible to have guests more frequently. 



526 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS [December 

What should be the duties of the class if they are studying American 
table service? When studying English or Russian service, the class was 
taught how to place and remove dishes; emphasis was upon serving. In 
American service, the emphasis shifts to good management which, in the 
last degree, means the minimum amount of waiting upon the table, 
because the unity of the group is preserved when there is little interrup- 
tion. What is to be prepared, how it is to be served, and how much 
it will cost, arc the peqile-xing questions which sometimes kept the 
teacher awake at night, prior to lessons on meal service Russian or 
English style. When teaching American service the class does the 
planning instead of the teacher, for, after all, is not the planning the real 
problem? The class are told how much they may spend upon a given 
meal. After consulting the supplies on hand, they make out their mar- 
ket order and send a committee marketing if necessar>'. They prepare 
as well as serve the meal and they grade their work. 

The following tentative plan has been found helpful in judging 
results, letting the individual class decide upon the detail of percentages 
awarded: 

A. Food — 40 per cent. 

Was the food attractive? In taste? In seasoning? 

Was the food ready to serve at the appointed time? 

Was the food served at its best? 

Were there few enough dishes so that one person could prepare 
them for a regular meal? 

How long a time was involved in the total preparation? 

Were the physical needs of different members of the group con- 
sidered? 

What was the total cost? 

B. Service — 25 per cent 

Was the table attractive? 

Was anything forgotten that should have been placed upon the 

table? 
Did all the members of the group contribute to the success of the 

meal? 
Was the meal served with dispatch yet without hurry? 

C. Atmosphere and hospitality — 20 per cent 

Was happiness evident? 

Was the meal eaten in a proper maimer? Was there table 
etiquette? Poise? Unhurried eating? Real conversation? 



1920J PUBLICITY WORK OF DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE 527 

Were the needs of the guests and others foreseen and supplied 
by members of the group? 
D. Final disposition — 15 per cent 

How long did it take to clean and put equipment in order? 
WTiat and how much was wasted? 
What duties were neglected? 
Since it is our aim to train girls to be good managers in the future, 
should we not use the opportunity to give practical experience in man- 
agement now? When this type of table service is taught, there will be 
more time to study nutritional requirements. Laying the covers and 
placing the food on the table will be done with equal nicety. And hos- 
pitality, the glory of America, will grow, because the homemakers under- 
stand ordering the day's work. 



THE PUBLICITY WORK OF THE DEPARTMENT OF 

AGRICLXTURE IN RELATION TO HOME 

ECONOMICS' 

HARLAN SMITH 
In Charge of Information, United Stales Department of Agriculture 

I take it that the thing you are most interested in tonight, the thing 
you came to this session to get, is some practical working knowledge 
of how you can better carry out your publicity obligation to the people 
whom you serve. And it is an obhgation. I wonder if you feel that way 
about it. I wonder if you feel that your work is finished after you have 
developed some new results of research in home economics, or after you 
have gathered information about better household practices in a surs'ey, 
say. I wonder if you feel that there is nothing more for you to do after 
you have written a report of your work in a letter or in a bulletin. Real 
publicity about the work you are doing begins just about where you 
think your work is ended. The bulletin or report does not dismiss the 
publicity obligation. It forms a part of the basis for publicity. That 
is all. 

' Presented at the Thirteenth .\nnual Meeting of the American Home Economics .Asso- 
ciation, Colorado Springs, June, 1920. 



528 THB JOURNAL OF HOiCE ECONOMICS [Dcccmbef 

How many people have an opportunity to read the bulletins you pub- 
lish? The number of copies printed in the initial editions of Farmers' 
Bulletins in the Department of Agriculture is 30,000. Suppose there is 
a bulletin on some home economics subject and that every one of the 
30,000 copies is well placed in the hands of some woman who can use it. 
What are 30,000 copies among 2.5,000.000 women? That means one 
copy for every 800 women. I presume the editions of your state bulle- 
tins are larger in comparison, but you can see how inadequately the field 
is covered, even assuming that every woman who gets a bulletin reads it. 
And I think that is assuming a good deal, judging from the appearance 
and contents of some of the bulletins on home economics that come to 
my desk. 

You have heard it said many times before, perhaps, but I say it again, 
that most of the bulletins written for popular consumption shoot above 
the heads of eighty per cent of the people for whom they are intended. 
I wonder why it is that when most of you sit down to write a bulletin 
you forget all about your popular audience — your readers. The ne.\t 
time you try it put an imaginary group of every-day women out in front 
of you and write as if you were talking to them, as if you were giving a 
demonstration to them. I have seen few bulletins in as simple language 
as most of you use in talking to groups of women, and yet the bulletin 
language should be simpler because it lacks the advantages of personal 
expression and accent. 

Not long ago a manuscript for a Farmers' Bulletin came in to the edi- 
torial office of the Department of Agriculture from one of the bureaus. 
It had been passed by the bureau editor and the bureau chief as a fit 
publication for farmers. The Department editor could not understand 
much of it so he went to the writer of the bulletin to find out how it 
happened. He wanted to find out through what mental processes the 
author traveled in- divesting himself of all the things the editor found in 
the manuscript. He said to the author: "You wrote this for farmers?" 
The author replied: "Certainly, that is a Farmers' Bulletin, it says so 
on the manuscript." "I know it was written /or farmers," the editor 
said, "but it doesn't seem to have been written to farmers. I don't 
think you would write any of these things in a letter to a farmer or that 
you would say them to a farmer in conversation. I wonder if j-ou 
wouldn't tell me frankly whom you had in mind, whom you thought 
about while you were writing it." And the author replied: "Well, to 
tell the truth about it, I had in mind Richard T. Ely and Frank W. 



1920] PUBLICITY WORK OF DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE 529 

Taussig" — and he named several other economists. He saw economists 
looking over his shoulder instead of farmers. 

I realize the great work that is being done to carry your results and 
good practices to housewives through the home demonstration forces 
and I am not belittling the value of bulletins. But the press and other 
publicity channels offer such bigger opportunities for reaching more 
people that I hope you will give more attention to the possibilities that 
lie there. For instance, if we send out a story, based on a Farmers' 
Bulletin which has an initial distribution of 30,000 copies, in our Special 
Information Service, we get a circulation of appro.ximately 15,000,000 
readers. And that is only one of the channels in which we could put 
the story. 

Your obligation, then, I think, is to work intimately with the people 
who can help you take advantage of the assistance of the press — the 
people who are handling publicity in the various institutions where you 
work. Most of the states have such publicity offices. Where they are 
not available you may then consider how you can learn to do some of 
the work yourselves. But I hope you will work closely and sympa- 
thetically with these offices established for the purpose. Don't get the 
notion that people doing publicity work are queer. You may yourself 
be queer to them. It is very likely that they know their business or they 
wouldn't stay on the job very long. And that business is to get stuff 
printed in newspapers, among other things. It is very likely that these 
people know more about that business than you do; that they know what 
newspapers want and that if you want to use the newspaper as a means of 
communication with people you must give the editors what they want, 
not what you think they ought to have. If you give them what they 
want, it will be printed in their pages. If you give them what you think 
they ought to have, it is likely to get nowhere except in the waste basket. 

Of course, if you have not the help of a publicity worker, then you 
may well consider how you can train yourself to do some of this work 
yourself. I am not going to tell you that anybody can learn to write 
successfully for the newspapers. In the lirst place I don't believe it is 
true and if I did I would not be likely to say so in this public way because 
it would be unprofessional. There are a lot of us that have to make our 
li\'ing at this business. And the competition is already keen. 

But I am quite willing to admit that there are a lot of people who, 
with a little training, can write copy that is acceptable to newspapers 
and thereby increase the effectiveness of their work. I know of no bet- 



530 THE JOURNAL OF uoME ECONOMICS [December 

ter way in which people in the work you are doing can so broaden their 
field of usefulness and extend their services than by preparing them- 
selves, at the expense of a little effort, to talk directly to the people 
they serve, through the press. 

I want to tell you now about the press ser\'ices we are carrj'ing on 
through the Oflice of Information of the Department of Agriculture. 
The Ollice of Information, first of all, is a ser\'ice bureau to the press. 
It is the point of contact between the Department of Agriculture and 
agricultural and trade journals, newspapers, magazines, the press asso- 
ciations. Washington correspondents, and other wTiters. All press mate- 
rial about the work of the Department clears through the Ofiice of Infor- 
mation. A number of regular informational services to the press are 
issued, but the office also helps outside writers to develop stories about the 
Department's work; it searches the Department for photographs, maps, 
and charts to meet particular needs; and it obtains on request from 
editors special articles from the Department's investigators and scien- 
tists, so far as facilities permit the writing of them. 

The regular informational services of the Department are as follows: 

Weekly News Leller. This journal, the official publication of the De- 
partment, serves a two-fold puri:)ose. It is a news service in that it 
carries official statements by the Secretary and by the various bureaus 
of the Department, and stories reporting the progress and results of 
Department investigations. It is a house organ for the Department's 
large staff of employees and official cooperators. It strives to keep them 
informed of new work begun, the progress of various campaigns, and to 
present ideas that will help them in their work. It is our purpose to 
print in the Weekly News Leller only such matter as is of wide interest 
and while we try to prepare most of the items in a form suitable for pub- 
lication, it is realized that the chief value to editors of certain articles is 
to present the Department's \'iews on various subjects and to pro\-ide 
information for such use as the editor sees fit to make of it. Frequently 
we carry special departments on the work of the Department of interest 
to women and in support of the boys' and girls' club work. We are 
always very glad to give space to tell about experiences of communities 
or individuals whose methods could be employed elsewhere. 

'I'he Weekly News Leller is sent free only to employees, official coop- 
erators, and the press. It can be obtained, however, from the Superin- 
tendent of Documents, Government Printing Office, at the subscription 
rate of 50 cents a year. Its total circulation is 142,000. 



1920] PUBLICITY WORK OF DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE 531 

Special Information Service. This is an illustrated weekly syndicate 
of eight columns for daily newspapers. It is issued as a proof sheet 
several days in advance of its release, and it is made up of four depart- 
ments of two columns each, as follows: "Growing Food on the Farm, 
In the Yard;" "Agriculture's Other Half — Marketing;" "A Bird in the 
Hand" (poultry); and "The Housewife and Her Business." Cuts, 
mats, and photographic prints of the illustrations were lent for the use 
of newspapers until a year ago, when reduced funds made it necessary 
to discontinue the cut and mat service. Only photographic prints of the 
illustrations arc available now. This service is sent to 3200 daily and 
weekly newspapers that have asked to receive it. 

Food and Farming Weekly. This is a press clipping sheet released every 
Monday. It carries eight to twelve short stories of results and progress 
of the Department's work, including results of investigations or research 
bearing on women's problems. It is a running account week by week 
of what the Department of Agriculture is doing. This service attempts 
to meet the requirements of editors for brevity, telling its stories in the 
fewest words possible. It is sent to 5200 publications of all classes that 
have requested it. 

Home-Garden and Canning-Drying Series. To stimulate home gar- 
dening and home preserN-ing of foods, seasonal articles on these subjects 
arc issued as a series to newspapers. They are made up of short "how- 
to-do-it" items and stories of successful experiences that contain helpful 
ideas. Until this year, cuts, mats, and photographic prints of the illus- 
trations used in the service have been furnished to newspapers, and the 
articles grouped on printed proof sheets in suggested layouts with illus- 
trations. Because of a reduction in our printing funds, no illustrations 
could be used in these services this year, and they are being issued in 
mimeograph form. Four hundred daily newspapers asked for the 
service this year. Last year, when cuts and mats were lent, 1241 
newspapers asked for it. 

Plate Service. One of the ways in which the office makes contact with 
the weekly and small daily newspapers in the country is through the 
plate and readyprint service of the Western Newspaper Union. Twenty 
to twenty-five columns of matter with illustrations are furnished to this 
concern weekly. In 1918 more than 62,000 columns of agricultural 
material, practically all of it furnished by this Department, were dis- 
tributed by the Western Newspaper Union. The Department's part in 
this form of distribution is only in furnishing the material. The plate 
and readyjirint matter is sold at a nominal price. 



532 THK JOURNAL OF HOUR ECONOMICS [December 

Mimeograph Service. News matter requiring immcdiaLc distribution 
is issued in mimeograph and sent generally or locally, according to its 
applicability and interest. By this means the office supplies its "spot" 
news to press associations, Washington correspondents, agricultural 
journals, trade journals, and newspapers. 

Special Articles. The Department is glad to furnish on request special 
articles by its writers or specialists. Obviously it can not offer an unlim- 
ited service in this respect because men and women in scienlilic and 
investigational work who are called upon for articles frequently are in the 
field or are engaged upon other duties requiring their full time for the 
moment. 

Other Activities. Other activities of the Ofl6cc of Information include 
the preparation of posters and circulars for use in support of the various 
educational campaigns carried on by the Department. 

The Office of Information has shown the value of conducting publicity 
campaigns in the field. It was found that local or regional campaigns 
in which the Department was interested in many cases required local or 
regional publicity. The office sent its representatives into the field to 
meet editors personally and "sell" them an idea, and to gather first- 
hand information — local interest stories and stories of individual experi- 
ence having ideas worth telling elsewhere. The tick eradication cam- 
paign in the South has been greatly aided by field work of this sort. 

The Office is placing an increasing amount of material in the maga- 
zines. In recent months special articles prepared by its writers have 
been accepted by such magazines as The Saturday Evening Post, Collie/ s, 
The Outlook, The Ladies^ Home Journal, Pictorial Review, The Delineator, 
Scientific American, Popular Science Monthly, Popular Mechanics, Lit- 
erary Digest, and Leslie's. We are endeavoring to work this field not 
only in preparing articles ourselves, but by "selling" ideas for stories to 
editors and inducing them to assign their writers to the subjects. As our 
force of writers is small, and the time M-hich they have for preparing 
magazine articles is limited, we are making greater use of the alternative 
method of inducing editors to have articles written by staff writers with 
our assistance. 

Distribution of Press Material. Every effort is made to give the wisest 
possible distribution to our press material so as to place it only where 
it will be of interest and to avoid waste. With the regular informational 
services of the office the policy has been adopted of sending them only 
to publications that request them. The only exception to this is the 



1920] PUBLICITY WORK OF DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE 533 

Weekly News Leller, which is sent to nearly all publications. We have, • 
however, queried the daily newspapers and are sending the News Letter 
only to some 800 that ordered it. Effort is made through form letters to 
induce editors to ask for these services, but no publication is listed 
without the specific request. 

I think you should know something about the printing situation in the 
Department of Agriculture. I think this Association should know why 
the Department is not able to meet its obligations to the people of 
this country in getting out information though millions of dollars are 
spent every year in gathering it. I think you ought to know because I 
believe as an association you can be of help in remedying a serious situa- 
tion. The funds for printing allowed the Department are wholly inade- 
quate. The Congress appropriates some $30,000,000 a year for the 
investigations and other work of the Department and then does not 
provide sufficient money to carry the results of that work to the people. 
As a result, the Department has a large number of useful manuscripts on 
hand which it cannot publish. One reason for that Ues in the fact that 
the printing appropriation is handled not by the agricultural committees 
of the two Houses of Congress, which pass on our other appropriations, 
but by a subcommittee of the House Committee on Appropriations. 
That committee, of course, is not familiar with the work of the Depart- 
ment — its chief concern is to keep down expenses. The printing funds 
have not kept pace with the amount of money appropriated for the vari- 
ous other activities of the Department. We needed $225,000 last spring 
to pubHsh the manuscripts then on hand, but economy at all costs 
was the slogan in Washington this year and so we cut down our esti- 
mates for $225,000 to $125,000, planning to establish a priority list 
among the 267 of our manuscripts then awaiting publication at the 
Government Printing Ofiice. We got $75,000 after a good deal of effort. 

Some of these 267 manuscripts represent the hfe work of scientists. 
Some of them cover investigations made at considerable expenditure of 
money. Most of them bear on subjects about which there is immediate 
need for information. Farmers and business men demand the results 
of investigations. They know the studies are completed and they won- 
der why they can not have the results. They blame the Department 
for inefficiency. The situation is a very embarrassing one to the Depart- 
ment. The Office of Home Economics, for example, has manuscripts 
that it has been holding for ten years waiting for an opportunity to 
print. Not only that, but we have not money enough to reprint the old 
bulletins of that office which are still in demand. 



534 Tin; JOURNAL OF noxu: kcoxomics [December 

I undcrstaml that this Association has a committee on legislation. 
I hope it may see in this an opportunity to help, for I believe it could be 
of considerable assistance. I am not prepared to say how, but I believe 
it can find a way. Do you know I would be \iolating the law if I should 
stand here and urge this Association or any individual to write to his 
Congressman about this matter? If I should write a letter on official 
stationery about it, if I should do anything directly or indirectly or any 
other way — the law is ironclad- I would be violating the law. All I 
can do is to give you the information about the situation. 

I think the Association would be interested in knowing also — and 
many of you do know already — how severely the Department's appro- 
priations for other activities have been reduced for next year. In the 
face of increased costs for carrying on our work, and in the face of the 
need for new work on new and vital problems in the field of agriculture, 
we will have $2,185,000 less next year than we had this year. You will 
be concerned to know that more than 60 major activities of the Depart- 
ment must be abandoned or curtailed, including the work to encourage 
the keeping of family milk cows. You know one farm in six in the 
United States has no milk cows. 

Appropriations for enforcing the Food and Drugs .Act were reduced by 
$30,000, and yet the administration of the act is mandatory. Does not 
this interest j'ou? It means that adulterated products, both imported 
and home manufactured, will find easier access to the tables of the 
Nation. Appropriations for investigating the handling and trans- 
portation of poultry, eggs, and fish were reduced by $10,000. Those 
are only a few of the items. A bare summary of them made 7 pages. A 
Texas editor complained when he received a copy of the summary. He 
said it was too long and we ought to know better than to send out such 
lengthy statements when paper is scarce and space in newspapers at a 
premium. I replied that the responsibility for its length was not ours 
and that he could guess whose it was. I told him we were giving the 
information in the briefest form. 



1920] STATUS OF HOME ECONOMICS AME>rDMENT 535 

THE PRESENT STATUS OF THE HOME ECONOMICS 

AMENDMENT TO THE VOCATIONAL 

EDUCATION BILL 

LOUISE STANLEY 
Chairman, Legislative Cammillee, A. H. E. A. 

Many inquiries have come to the Chairman of the Legislative Com- 
mittee as to the present status of the Home Economics Amendment to 
the Vocational Education Bill, generally known as the Fess Bill.' 

This bill was introduced into the House January 26, 1920, by Repre- 
sentative Fess, chairman of the Education Committee, was read twice 
and referred to the Education Committee. In general, the members of 
this committee seemed favorable to this bill, but the calendar was so 
full during the last session that it did not seem wise to report the bill 
out at that time. For this reason we were asked last spring to stop 
sending letters to the members of the Education Committee. At no 
time has the legislative chairman asked that all work on this bill be 
stopped, but urged that, during the recess, pressure be brought to bear 
on the state representatives to assure a favorable vote when the measure 
came on the floor. 

The Fess Bill was proposed at the request of the American Home 
Economics Association. It is our bill, the first bill introduced into the 
National Congress at our request. As president of the Association, 
Miss White was untiring in her efforts for this bill and we are assured of 
the equally hearty support of Miss Sweeny. The desirability of addi- 
tional appropriation for vocational home economics has been endorsed 
by the following national organizations, in addition to the American 
Home Economics Association: General Federation of Women's Clubs, 
National League of Women Voters, National Society for Vocational Edu- 
cation, National Grange, National Council of Administrative Women, 
and National Congress of Mothers and Parent Teachers' Associations, 
besides numerous state organizations. 

Especial attention should be called to the work of the League of Women 
Voters for this bill. Due to their efforts, clauses advocating addi- 
tional appropriations for vocational home economics were written in 
three of the party platforms. Unless the writer is mistaken, this is the 

' The Fess Bill is H. R. 12078 and is a bill "amending the Smith-Hughes act by adding 
sections appropriating, for vocational home economics, suras equal to those appropriated 
for agriculture and trade and industrial education and regulating their expenditure." 



536 THE jnuRNAi. OF noxfE ECONomcs [December 

first time the words 'home economics" have been written into a part\ 
platform.- 

The same bill, with rather drastic cuts in the sums appropriated, was 
introduced into the Senate, Senate Bill 4133, March 25, 1920, by Senator 
Kenyon, chairman of the Senate Committee on Education and Labor, 
and was read twice and referred to that committee. 

This bill carries an initial appropriation of $200,000, with an annual 
increase of 8150,000 until June 30, 1931, and annually thereafter the 
sum of 8500,000, with an additional appropriation of 850,000 (or as 
much of it as may be needed) to insure a minimum of 85,000 to every 
state up to June 30, 1926, anfl i^lO.OOO for any fiscal year thereafter. 
This bill would guarantee to the more sparsely settled states larger sums 
than now are available or will be available under the Smith-Hughes Act 
but the total amount available after 1931 is less than is available under 
that act as it now stands and is not at all commensurate with the need 
for the work. It is hoped this bill can be amended so as to carry the 
same appropriation as the Fess Bill. 

A brief survey of the development of vocational home economics as 
supported by the Smith-Hughes Act, throws some light on the need and 
possibility of development. 

Chart I shows graphically the number of schools of different types 
that have been approved and federally aided, under the Smith-Hughes 
Act, during the year ended June, 1919. In most states, the only limit 
to the number of schools formed has been the amount of money available. 

The amount of money available for home economics education, as 
compared with agricultural and trade and industrial education, is shown 
in chart II; the need, as indicated by the nimiber engaged in the jobs, 
in chart III. This chart also shows the maximum amount available 
under the Smith-Hughes Act. 

' Plank presented by League of Women \oters to the Platfonn Committees of the polit- 
ical parties: 

III. The Home and High Prices — Chairman Dept. of Food Supply and Demand, Mrs. 

Edward P. Costigan. "As a means of increasing the efficiency of the home and 

reducing the cost of living, we favor: Increased federal support for vocational 

training in home economics." 

Response of the Parties: 

Republican — " Federal aid for vocational training should take into account the special 

aptitudes and needs of women workers." 
Z?«mocr(j/!C—" Increased appropriation for vocational training in home economics." 
Prohibition — ''.\s a means of increasing the efficiency of the home and reducing the 
cost of living, we urge increased federal support for vocational training in home economics." 



1920] 



STATUS OF HOME ECONOMICS AMENDMENT 



537 



n 




() 


3 






^ 


ta 


c 


5S 




o 


1 1 


oq 


!i 


4) 




6 


-§ 


o 


^^n 


1 


S 2 








73-^ 


c 


,>;-3 





B g 


^ 


— — . 


s 

3 


t| 


•a 




« 




^ 


^■^ 





, a 


c 


" ^ 





^1 









3 ^ 


o 


<<- 


^ 






538 



TILE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[December 







f^ O 00 

• . • • 
^^ €0 i/^ 

oj iq 5 

1_ !j JK 
►— ] -c3 O 

=^ ^ § 

^ #1 

I! -^ ^ ^ 



1920] 



STATUS OF HOME ECONOMICS AMENDMENT 



539 



E 
I 



tiA 



t 



3 

on 
o 

c 

o 
c 

s : "' 

c ^--. 
a -g 

o S|- 

U <; 

3 ^i o 
~ o' E 
3 2.£ 

y r 

on I 

ai 

S 



i 6 






3 



E-5 6 



I S 



~ 3 

i = 



s 



h 



I a 

o O 






62 



4) — 

c 

E g 

P " 

Cm 

(0 

^ 





«) 

P B 
E 

J 
X 
a 



22 to 



tn 


p; 


*- II 


cu 


"on 


o 


CD 








-a a 


'^— 1 


c -^ 




a 






a 


^- 


JC 



E 

" o 



^-c 



to 

CO 

(D 

—I 



54() 



THE JOURN'AL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[December 



']'hc following tal)lc indicates the funds that will be available for voca- 
tional home economics under the new bills, as compared with the amount 
available under the Smith-Hughes Act as it now stands: 

Amounts ovaihble 



rUCAL VIA* ENDDIO 
JUNE 30 


(WDEK 

sumi-nuoou act 


UHDEB 

thi uaiYOM anx't 


cxDU mm nil box*! 


1921 


$255,600 






1922 


305,000 


$200 010 


$500,000 


1923 


354,400 


350,000 


750,000 


1924 


403,800 


500,000 


1,000,000 


1925 


511,200 


650,000 


1,250,000 


1926 


610,000 


800,000 


1,500,000 


1927 


610,000 


950,000 


1,750,000 


1928 


610,000 


1,100,000 


2,000,000 


1929 


610,000 


1,250,000 


2,250,000 


1930 


610,000 


1,400,000 


2,500,000 


1931 


610.000 


1,550,000 


3,000,000 


1932 


610,000 


500,000 


3,000,000 



* With certain additional amounts to guarantee the minimum for each state, 
t Since the bill was not passed June 30, 1920, the first appropriation cannot become 
available before 1921-22; on this account, the maximum is reached in 1932 instead of 1921. 

Now, will you not back up the Association and do your part to help 
secure the passage of this bill as soon as possible? 

First, public opinion should be educated in regard to the need for this 
bill. You can do this through personal interviews, newspaper notices, 
and discussions before groups, particularly in the Citizenship Schools 
now being formed by the League of Women Voters. 

Second, every Representative and Senator should know that his 
constituents are back of this bill. Tell them so and w-rite them so, and 
have others do the same. Have the organizations in your community 
pass resolutions endorsing the bill and send copies to your Congressmen. 

Third, we want to know where ever>' man in the National Congress 
stands on this bill. Put this question squarely up to your representa- 
tives and let the women of your district know how they stand on it. 

P'ourth, if there is any question in your mind in regard to this bill, or 
if any question is raised which you cannot answer, wall you not write to 
the president of the American Home Economics Association, or to me 
as Chairman of the Legislative Committee. 

This is the psychological time to pass the bill. Get in touch with 
your State Legislative Chairman and sec where you can best help. 



FOR THE HOMEMAKER 

GENERAL RULES FOR CHOOSING OVEN TEMPERATURES' 

MINNA C. DENTON 
Experimental Kitchen, Office of Home Economics, United Slates Department of Agriculture 

It must be remembered that there is no one method of baking any- 
given product which can be expected to prove invariably superior to 
all others; there are usually at least two ways of baking it, if not more. 
Popovers, for instance, are often put into a hot oven (about 400° to 
450° F.) which is then reduced in temperature about 50°, or perhaps 
much more; yet equally delicious popovers can be made by putting them 
into a cold oven and heating them gradually to a moderate temperature, 
though in the latter case an hour or more will be required to bake them, 
instead of 35 minutes as in the first method. Similarly, bread may be 
allowed to rise until it has somewhat more than doubled its bulk, and 
then be put into a hot oven (400° F. or a little more), and the temperature 
subsequently much reduced; or it may be put into a moderate oven 
(350° to 375° F.), before it has risen quite so much, and allowed to com- 
plete the rising process in the oven, while the oven is being heated up 
to 400° or a little higher, after which the temperature is reduced to 
complete the baking process. Results are equally good in either case, 
if the procedure has been properly managed. 

Again, the results of the baking operation are not exactly the same in 
different ovens of varying sizes and construction, even though the 
thermometer may record the same temperature in every case. A large 
or heavy oven (coal range or heavy "fireless" gas range) will "roast" 
a joint or bake a cake or loaf of bread quite as well at a temperature 
which is at least 50° F. lower than that used when the same work is 
performed in a smaller, thinner walled, gas range oven through which 
a blast of hot air is rapidly circulating. 

When a range of temperatures is suggested as being suitable for baking 
any given product, choose the temperatures with the following principles 
in mind: 

' Published by permission of the Secretary of Agriculture. 

541 



542 TKK JOURNAL OF HOUE ECONOMICS (December 

1. The larger sizes of loaves, rolls, mufllns, or potatoes usually require 
lower temperatures for longer periods than the smaller sizes which must 
have higher temperatures and shorter periods, other things being 
equal. 

2. The shape of the loaf, roll, or roast is also important. A half 
pound sponge cake or angel food cake baked in a turk's-head pan (center 
tube) presents a difTerent baking problem from that ofTercd by the 
same weight of cake baked as an ordinary loaf. 

3. The composition of the batter or dough governs the baking tempera- 
ture to a large extent. A loaf cake comparatively high in flour, baking 
powder, and liquid and comparatively low in egg, sugar, and fat (i.e., 
a "cheap" cake) requires greater care and a more gradually applied 
heat than does a richer cake; it should therefore be put into a cool oven 
at first, with very gradually rising temperature if the best result is to 
be obtained. 

4. The small portable gas oven (especially if uninsulated) requires 
somewhat higher temperatures in order to secure the results attained 
in a larger oven by very moderate temperatures; particularly is this 
difference apparent when the comparison is made with a large hea%'y 
"fireless" or electric or coal range oven, which has very little ventilation 
ornone at all. 

Measuring oven lemperalures. If the oven is provided with a glass 
door, one may use a mounted short thermometer' which stands in the 
oven and is read through the glass panel without opening the door. 

In case of a "fireless" oven or other oven provided with hea\y door, 
it is not very convenient, and may indeed prove disastrous, to open the 
door every few minutes in order to read a thermometer. In such cases 
it is better to purchase a chemical thermometer' reading to 600°F. 
(or about 325°C.). These thermometers have long stems and may be 
inserted into a cork which is fitted into a drilled opening through the 
top of the oven. The bulb of the thermometer should be near the center 
of the oven; or better still, as near as possible to the food being baked, 
yet without touching any object whatever. The temperature during 

' Such a thermometer may be purchased from the Taylor Instrument Company, Roch- 
ester, New York; or from The Cooper Oven Thermometer Company, Pequabuck, Connecti- 
cut; or from many hardware dealers who carry these and other thermometers. 

' Taylor Instrument Company, Rochester, New York; any firm selling supplies for the 
use of chemical and physical laboratories. Many hardware dealers carrj' candy thermom- 
eters, and a few even carry oven thermometers. However, the ordinary candy thermom- 
eter docs not read higher than 300°F., consequently it would break if put into a hot oven. 



1920] 



RULES FOR CHOOSING OVEN TEMPERATURES 



543 



baking is read on the stem which emerges above the cork. Any hard- 
ware dealer can provide a man to drill the hole and fit the cork. 



Temperatures appropriate for baking dijerent products 



PEODDCT TO BE BASED 


RANGE OF TEUPEKATUSE OVEK WHICH IT HAY BE BAZEO 


Biscuits, baking powder 


400°F. to 500°F. 


Bread 


350°F. to 450°F. (Begin low and raise temperature rap- 
idly, reducing again; or, begin liigh and reduce sharply) 




Cakes 




Angel food 


300°F. to 400 °F., according to size. Or, put a six-egg 
cake (turk's-head pan) into 400°F. oven; when it begins 






to brown, turn gas out for 5 to 10 minutes; then raise 




to 330°F., then at last to 370°F. (These temperatures 




are approximate and cannot be expected to fit all cases 




exactly) 


Cookies 


375°F. to 400''F. 


Cup cakes 


300°F. to 400°F. 


Gingerbread 


370°F. to 400°F. 


Layer cake 


300°F. to 400°F. (Begin low, raise gradually) 
280°F. to 375°F. (Begin low, raise temperature very 
gradually at first, then more rapidly) 


Loaf cake 




Sponge cake 


300°F. to 400°F. (See angel food) 

2S0°F. to 350°F. (Or, set in pan of hot water, and use 
350°F. to 450°F. oven temperature) 


Custard 






400°F. to 500°F., then 350°F. to 250°F. (Sear at the 




highest temperature mentioned or else in heavy kettle 




or skillet on top of range; reduce sharply and finish at 




a lower temperature) 


Muffins 


400°F. to 450°F. 


Pastry (no filling) 


450°F. to 550°F. 


Pies (mth uncooked filling) .... 


450°F. to 400°F. (Put into hot oven, lower when it begins 




to color) 


Popovers 


450°F. to 350°F. 


Potatoes 


400°F. to 500°F. (Or at lower temperatures, increasing 
the time according to the reduction in temperature) 




Puddings 


350°F. to 400°F. (If high in eggs or milk, bake like 
custard) 




Rolls 


400°F. to 450°F. 


Souffle 


3£0°F to 400°F. (See custard) 







544 THE JOURNAL OF HOME Ecoxostics [December 

IS IT THE MAN\' OR THE VV.W WHO HAVE CHANGED? 

So many times diirini^ llie last year we have been laid the story of extrava- 
gant spending thai it is pleasant to have the Savings Division of the Treasury 
give us this more cheerful word. It has taken some courage, at times, to refuse 
to buy because too much has been charged for an article, but if this refusal 
has been even a small factor in lowering prices the sacrifice has been well 
worth while. — The Editor. 

No fact is more significant at this time than the changed attitude of 
the American consumer in the purchase of the everyday needs of life. 
A year ago the public was buying everything in sight regardless of the 
cost. Most of us were so influenced by the price mark on the goods that 
unless the price was high we looked upon the article with suspicion, and 
refused to take it, but the public has been doing some thinking lately, 
and thinking is still the individual's chief weapon of economic defense. 

Women have been going to market in the old-fashioned way with 
market baskets on their arms. They have picked up the cantaloupe, 
the berries, and the cuts of meat and looked them over. If the quality 
and the price were not satisfactory they refused to buy. They have 
gone into department stores in a similar way. If they found the 
price exhorbitant and the quality ordinary-, they have had the courage 
to walk out. If they could not fmd what they wanted at a reasonable 
price they decided to forego the purchase and to wait until the price 
came down. 

Women have been figuring out how much they are justified in spending 
for the maintenance of the home. They have been budgeting their 
incomes and keeping an account of their expenditures. They have been 
studying the value of foods and clothes, realizing that the greatest busi- 
ness of the nation, jiamely the purchase of food and clothing and other 
household necessities, must be run on the same business-like principles 
as a commercial enterprise. 

In the face of an awakened public conscience the price of commodities 
must be justified by the fundamental economic principles which should 
determine prices. The producer or dealer who would violate these 
principles and profiteer upon the people cannot continue to do business 
with the American public. 

The essential thing now, in view of the recent tendency to reduce 
prices, is that the public should be fair both with themselves and with 



1920] SCORE CARD FOR FARM DWELLINGS 545 

business. If people rush in and over-buy because goods are being re- 
duced, or if they expect prices to be reduced below the point of normal 
profit to producers and dealers, they will create another economic con- 
dition as unfortunate as the one from which we are just emerging. 
WTiile we are protecting our private pocketbooks against the American 
tendency to e.xtravagance and against unscrupulous profiteers we must 
not lose confidence in legitimate business. Business must be supported 
in order to live. It must be liberally supported in order to be healthy. 

The American public has in its efforts to reduce prices during the past 
few months shown a large degree of economic sanity. It is important 
that the same degree of sanity be practiced now in this new condition 
which the reduction of prices is bringing about. 



A SCORE CARD FOR FARM DWELLINGS 

ALICE POULTER 
Formerly of the Division of Extension, Kansas Agricultural College 

Women in rural communities, now that renewed attention is given 
to building and remodelling farm houses, may find of value such a 
means of judging their own and other dwellings as is given by the use 
of a score card. Although it is comparatively easy to find score cards 
for other buildings, score cards for farm dwellings do not seem to exist. 
Perhaps it would not have occurred to me to prepare such a card had 
not the need arisen in connection with an auto tour for Kansas farm 
girls, undertaken in Montgomery county. The tour is described in 
The Breeders Gazelle by "One of the Tourists" somewhat as follows: 

For a number of years it has been the custom in many places for 
county agricultural agents to conduct boy's hikes, in which a group of 
boys, accompanied by one or more agricultural authorities, \nsited 
various farms to observe improved methods of handling different farm 
problems. The agricultural agent of Montgomery county in Kansas, 
thinking that the girls of the county deser\-ed as much consideration 
as their brothers, planned three auto tours of one day each for them, 
thus gi\'ing the girls an opportunity of learning something of the con- 



546 THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS (December 

veniences to be found in the modern homes of their own county, and 
at the same time to secure a broader understanding of matters relating 
to the home. 

Each day's trip was in a diflcrcnt part of the county, and each group 
was accompanied by the county agent and the home economics specialist 
from the Division of Extension of the Kansas Agricultural College. 
The itinerary of each day included a visit to a standard rural school, 
a farm where good beef cattle are produced, a modern dairy farm, a 
poultry plant, several modern homes, and other points of general interest. 
Each girl provided her own dinner, and each was asked to take with 
her a note-book and pencil, and to make a brief written report to the 
county agent, describing the best dairy, the best sewage disposal plant, 
the best water supply system, the best poultry plant, and the best farm 
kitchen, giWng the reason why each was the best, and a description of 
a modern rural school. 

At the beginning of the day's work each group was given suggestions 
as to points to be considered when studying the farm house, and a score 
card was devised in order to have a uniform basis upon which to work. 
The housewife was asked to criticise her own house, gi\'ing reasons for 
her criticism, and many points were mentioned which the girls might 
otherwise have missed. Discussion with the user often has more force 
than anything teachers may say. Special attention of the %'isitors was 
called to devices for securing a convenient water supply, and disposing 
of waste, and to the lighting and heating facilities in many of the homes. 

The home economics specialist answered questions relating to home 
management and home sanitation, and explamed the action which takes 
place in the septic tank, the points to be considered in the making of 
good butter, the value of the tubercuUn test in the dairy herd, and other 
subjects of special interest. Others who accompanied the girls gave 
talks about canning, poultry raising, storing meat for summer use, 
favorite home conveniences, and various topics of \atal interest to the 
young people, using the things seen on the trip to emphasize and illus- 
trate the various points. The county agent discussed the judging of 
beef and dairy animals, calling attention to the location of the different 
cuts of meat, and each girl was asked to judge a group of dairy cows. 

The score card for dwellings calls to mind the following paragraph 
from the life of Ellen H. Richards by Caroline L. Hunt: 

"In the summer of 1908 I was visiting at her house when she received 
from Professor John R. Commons an advance copy of his Score Card 
for Houses, with a request that she criticise it. She handed it to me 



1920] 



SCORE CARD FOR FARM DWELLINGS 



547 



and asked me to score her own house; and having made the necessary 
examination and measurements, I had the pleasure of handing it back 
to her with a perfect score marked upon it." 



A score card for farm duellings 



Location 

Drainage 

Exposure 

Relation to other buildings 

Construction 

Foundation 

Durability of material 

Suitability of form and weight for the building 

Cellar 

Size suited to use 

Depth 

Finish 

Roof 

Material 

Durability 

Inflammability 

Style 

Body of house 

Material 

Interior construction, wall and wood finish 

Arrangement 

Relation of rooms to each other 

Relation of rooms to outside buildings 

Lighting and ventilation, windows, artificial lighting, 

arrangement of same 

Water supply in kitchen, in bath room, in laundry 

Sewage disposal 

Equipment 

Kitchen (modem conveniences) 

Bath room 

Laundry 

Other rooms 



100 100 



20 



30 



30 



Note: In connection with "relation to other buildings" under "location," attention 
should be given especially to the poultry and dair>' buildings, and in case of outdoor toilet 
to that building also, keeping in mind the direction of prevailing winds and the comfort of 
the worker as well as economy of time. This also enters into the relation of rooms to outside 
buildings under "arrangement." Under "laundry equipment" consider power, heating 
facilities for water and irons, disposal of waste water, provision for dr>'ing clothes in bad 
weather. 



548 THE JOURNAL OF uouE ECONOMICS [December 

EIGHT HOUR SERVICE 

At a Conference on Group Lixing held at Lake Placid in May it was 
thought worth while to spend one afternoon on the discussion of the 
eight hour ser%-ice for households, both large and small. 

The scarcity of supply of household employees, and the abnormal 
situation induced by the bidding and over bidding of employees offers 
suflicient reason for considering changes in the system of household 
employment. From the employees point of view the reasons for the 
shrinking supply are found in the significant lack of standards of working 
conditions in household emplojTnent as compared with other industries 
and forms of business; and the desire for freedom from restraint imposed 
in many instances in resident service. The opportunity to live in a 
home of one's own choosing with all the attending social compensations, 
regular hours of emplojTnent and more systematized planning of work, 
and the opportunity for recreation at hours corresponding to those of 
friends in other occupations would mean a change in attitude toward 
domestic work. 

One of the many experiments tried has been that of the EmplojTnent 
Department of the Central Branch of the Y. W. C. A. in New York City, 
which has experimented for the last year or more in placing home assist- 
ants, that is nonresident workers, on an eight-hour day and forty-four 
hour week. Regular holidays or equivalent time free with full pay and 
paid vacation on the basis of a minimum of two weeks for a year of 
service are to be given by employers. .\ny work may be required except 
heavy washing; the employee lives, sleeps, and eats away from the place 
of emplovTnent (or when necessary carries a luncheon) and is called by 
her last name and title. The wages are on a sliding scale, not falling 
below the current minimum wage standard, and the car fare is paid 
by the employee. " 

A consulting station has been established where information and 
assistance may be obtained by housewives who are considering or using 
eight hour service. Charts, schedules, and time studies compiled by 
housewives who have tested them and proved them to be practical, 
are available. 

Boston and Worcester, Mass., Hartford, Conn., and Providence, 
R. I, are experimenting in the same direction. 



1920] A LESSON IN COSTUME DESIGN 549 

A LESSON IN COSTUME DESIGN' 

The Home Economics Class, High School, Bridgemtte, Delaware 

For a tall thin girl dressed in a tight dress with long lines and stripes: 
There was a young lady from Lynn 
Who was so unusually thin, 
In vertical lines she resembled the pines, 
In circular lines she would win. 

For a stout short girl who wears ruflBes: 

Now here's a young lady from Pratt 
Who's inclined to be rather fat. 
Now ruffles are found to make her look round 
But she's never thought about that. 

Illustrating some angles at which hats are worn : 
I am pretty but not very wise, 
My gown by itself takes the prize, 
But I wear my chapeaux right over my nose, 
And extinguish my fetching bright eyes. 

These hats that are worn too far back, 

Rest about where you'd carry a pack. 

Now wouldn't you love just to give them a shove, 

And procure them the style that they lack. 

A lesson in fitting hat crowns to the head size: 
Behold my hat is much too small 
Although it's just the rage this fall. 
On some folks here, 'twould look quite dear, 
But me it does not suit at all. 

This lady is pretty and trig, 

But the crown of her hat is too big. 

It makes her look small, when she wants to look tall, 

And spoils the effect of her rig. 

' Given before the Woman's Club of Bridgeville, Del. 



EDITORIAL 

The Journal of Home Economics believes it has the honor of being 
practically the last magazine in the United States to raise its price. It 
fought against the exil day as long as possible, but increased cost of 
paper, printing, and labor — you know the tale — has forced it to yield. 
The printer's bill constantly grows larger. Even the cost of printing 
advertisements has come dangerously near the receipts from them. 
So from January first the price must be two dollars and fifty cents a 
year. 

The Journal has ambitions. It wants to double its space, to triple 
its advertising, to quadruple its number of subscribers, and to multiply 
indefinitely its value. It presents its acknowledgments to those who 
have contributed to its columns, to the many who have sent kind letters 
of appreciation, perhaps most of all to its critics. But if its ambitions 
are to be realized it must have still more help. If its space could be 
doubled there would be fewer complaints that one or more interests 
are not adequately represented. One letter says that too much of the 
Journal is especially for teachers, another letter that there is not enough 
for teachers. One letter asks that more space be given to institution 
work, another wants more individual research, another wishes educa- 
tional material. If the Journal could contain one hundred pages a 
month it would be much more possible to satisfy the demands of each 
indi\-idual interest. 

Another thing is necessary to satisfy these demands. Material repre- 
senting these different interests must be sent to the Journal. Often 
the criticism that comes is fundamentally not a criticism of the Journal 
but of home economics workers. Institutional workers must contribute 
institutional material. No one else can do it. Teachers must send the 
material most useful for teachers. There are surely many who could 
give most valuable help who simply do not think of writing for the 
Journal. 

To run such an enlarged Journal would take more money. Unless 
the Journal can be endowed, more money must come from more 
advertising and more subscribers. It would be comparatively easy to 
550 



1920] THE OPEN FORXJM 551 

get more advertising if we had more subscribers. More advertising 
would also react to bring more subscribers, particularly if the advertising 
were of equipment and utensils about which the home economics workers 
may not readily learn otherwise. 

If as a small beginning each reader of the Journal will endeavor to 
get at least one new subscriber during the coming year, if she will see 
how she can contribute to the value of the Journal by sending even 
a question, a news item, or a letter to the Open Forum, if she cannot 
contribute an article, the Journal will have made a fair start toward 
greater helpfulness and better success. 

The Journal wishes all its readers a Merry Christmas and a Happy 
New Year — and it is so bold as to ask that it may be placed on the 
Christmas list of each one to receive a subscription, a contribution, or 
even a letter. 

Home Economics Publicity. The attention of every home eco- 
nomics worker should be especially given to the statement in Mr. Harlan 
Smith's article, in this number, in regard to the need of funds by the 
Department of Agriculture for printing material that is already pre- 
pared. One cannot visit the Office of Home Economics mthout being 
impressed with the value of unpublished charts held for lack of money, 
with the bulletins that have been prepared and not published, with the 
work whose recorded results are inaccessible. Much helpful material 
in that oflice can be available at present only for those who are able to 
visit the office in person. 

The American Home Economics Association is certainly the asso- 
ciation above all others that should take up this matter, and that should 
see that in this next administration, that will undoubtedly be one of 
economy, a true economy is exercised, not the wastefulness of making 
useless a large amount of valuable work that has already been accom- 
plished and that should be made usable for every worker in the field. 



THE OPEN FORUM 

A Household Science Honor Society. — It may be of interest to 
readers of the Journal to know that a local honor society in household 
science has been in existence at the University of California since 1915. 
This society is called Alpha Nu, and elects to its membership seniors in 
their last term and graduate students in household science. Only the 



552 Tiu: joiRNAL OF homj: kcunomics [December 

scientific phase of home economics is thus included. This di\Tsion fol- 
lows from the di\ision in instruction in this institution into the two 
departments of household science and household art. 

The Alpha Nu honor society has as its chief object the promotion of 
interest and progress in all scientific fields which may be made of value 
to the household. The most imporUint and fully developed of these 
fields are of course the chemistry of food and nutrition, physics and chem- 
stry of cooking, bacteriology of food preservation, engineering prob- 
lems of lighting, heating, ventilation, labor-saving de\ices, and work 
routine. 

It has become the custom of the .\lpha Xu society to select year by 
year some topic from one of these fields for detailed discussion, organi- 
zation, and representation in written form to the members and to others 
interested in these matters. Self-conducted seminar meetings are held 
fortnightly throughout the year for this purpose. 

The first problem undertaken was that of the so-called "household 
chemistry" course often considered a valuable part of the high school 
student's training. During three semesters the seminar meetings were 
devoted to the preparation of a syllabus for such a course, to consist of 
one term of general introduction in the principles of chemistry-, and one 
term of applied organic or domestic chemistry. This syllabus was multi- 
graphed and distributed in the spring of 1917. 

The second problem attacked was that of a similar syllabus of a course 
in household science for the high school, to include the principles of food 
preparation, dietetics, and home management, with an assumed pre- 
requisite or parallel course in general chemistry. This work was begun 
in the fall of 1917, and completed in the spring of 1919 and was neces- 
sarily carried on by a number of different groups. This syllabus also 
has been multigraphed and distributed. 

The society is now engaged in the similar preparation of a detailed 
outline of experiments possible for use in a high school course in dietetics. 

Open meetings are occasionally held b\- the society, and a semi-annual 
news letter is circulated among its members. 

It would be interesting to know whether conditions are favorable in 
any other institutions for a similar organization. 

Agnes Fay Morgan. 



BOOKS AND LITERATURE 



HouseholdjArithmelic. By Catherine F. 

Ball and Miriam E. West. Edited by 

B. R. Andrews. Phila.: J. B. Lippincott 

Co., 1920, pp. 271. $1.48. 

The problems of this Household Arith- 
metic have been selected from the home 
economics field, and the contents have been 
based on the family budget. Thus the sub- 
ject matter falls in six divisions. 

The first division takes up budgets and 
accounts, both personal and household. The 
problems are good live problems which ought 
to interest any girl in the eighth or ninth 
grades. This division of the book should 
be given first. The other five divisions may 
be taken in any order desired. If a class 
were studying foods with their home eco- 
nomics teacher, the fourth division on foods 
might well be used in the arithmetic 
class. 

The second division deals with the cost 
of shelter, bringing up the discussion of home 
ownership versus renting, the cost of repairs, 
with many practical problems in plastering, 
painting, and flooring. 

The third division is on cost of operating 
expenses. Its problems concern the cost of 
fuel, how to read a gas and an electric meter 
and compute the bill, the cost of up-keep of 
furnishings, and practical problems on the 
cost of service. 

The division on clothing starts out with 
plannmg a clothing budget for the different 
members of the family, with problems that 
should appeal to the average girl. The 
comparison of homemade versus ready-made 
clothing, as to the cost of material and the 
time required, is made. The illustrations 
in this chapter show how to apply patterns, 
how to cut bias strips of cloth, and the 
amount of bias that may be obtained from 
different widths of cloth. 



The chapter on foods gives a short dis- 
cussion of household weights and measures, 
tabulated in clear concise tables. Some 
simple marketing problems bring home the 
actual cost of foods, not only on a calorie 
but a quantity basis. The discussion of 
fundamental dietary principles is brief and 
to the point. The whole of this chapter 
might weU be used by any high school class 
in dietetics. 

The last chapter, on higher life, brings in 
methods of business life about which 
every girl should know. The discussion of 
saving and investment shows how rapidly 
interest accumulates on small desposits; dif- 
ferent methods of savings are discussed, such 
as postal savings, savings accounts, stocks, 
bonds, and Ufe insurance, with a statement 
as to what life insurance means, how the 
poUcies differ, and the value in dollars and 
cents of these different kinds of policies. 
Other topics include buying a home as sav- 
ing, how money may be borrowed on a 
home and on notes, and some practical prob- 
lems in improving health conditions. This 
section also deals with higher life as related 
to recreation and education, showing how 
the earning capacity of a girl is increased by 
education. It shows the actual cost of 
equipment for such sports as tennis, and 
takes up problems which bring home to the 
girl what simple, healthful, outdoor recre- 
ations cost, as compared with recreation of 
a less valuable character. 

The book is valuable both in the upper 
grades and in the high school. Indeed it 
was worked out experimentally by its au- 
thors in their own high school work. Indi- 
vidual chapters might well be used by home 
economics teachers as a source of interesting 
problems to introduce into classes in food, 
clothing, and management. 

Frances R. Kelly. 
553 



554 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[December 



M assachusells Household Account Book. 
Prepared by Lauka GrPFOED, Mass. Agr. 
College, Amherst, 3rd cd., 1919, pp. 40. 

Budget Planning in Social Case Work. Re- 
port written by Emma A. Winslow, Com- 
mittee on Home Economics, The Charity 
Organization Society, 105 E. 22nd Street, 
New York City, 1919, pp. 31. $0.15. 

Modern Magic. By Caeo D. Coombs. 
Boston: Whitcorab and Barrows, 1920, 
pp. 60. $0.50. 

The Massachusetts book presents a very 
simple form for the keeping of household 
accounts. The sheets have the columnar 
divisions and the headings used are: Meat 
and Fish; Milk, Cream, Butter; Fruits, 
Vegetables; Other Groceries; Guests; Cloth- 
ing; Household Furnishings; Operating 
Expenses; House and Heat; Health; Inci- 
dentals; Benevolences; Advancement; and 
Recreation. 

In the introduction a full subdivision is 
given so that there is no question as to what 
the various headings are intended to include. 
Food is particularly stressed in this book; it 
is the only classification which is subdivided, 
and also in the introduction there are several 
suggestive sentences under the heading, 
"Money Spent for Food." 

The book is simple, clear, and concise 
and should appeal to the housekeeper. 

Budget Planning in Social Case Work shows 
the need and advantage of a full analysis of 
the resources and expenditures of the family 
who cannot make its income reach. Miss 
Winslow points out very forcibly the fact 
that particular needs alter the budget decid- 
edly and that there is no standard budget 
that can be applied to all, but that each case 
must be studied and prescribed for individ- 
ually. 

The clear exposition of the factors enter- 
ing into budget making brings out many 
points which a person without wide expe- 
rience in the adjustment of family expendi- 
tures is apt to overlook. 

The pamphlet is intended, as its title im- 
plies, as an aid to budget making for de- 



pendent families, but the general principles 
which are set forth would also be o great 
value in adjusting the finances of independ- 
ent families on any income level. 

Modern Magic treats budgeting and ac- 
counting from a most happy viewpoint. It* 
optimism is so convincing that after reading 
it one feels quite sure that a budget wUl 
go a long way towards materializing one's 
wants and desires. 

The arrangement of the account sheets is 
a bit different from usual. A double page 
takes care of food and ice for each month 
and another double page allows for the en- 
tries of rent, housekeeping expenses, cloth- 
ing, and personal expenses. The allotment 
of space is well planned for the usual num- 
ber of entries for each classification and 
division of the income. After keeping ac- 
counts in this book, a glance will show what 
one wants to know about expenditures. 

In Modern Magic, Miss Coombs has given 
us not only a very practical and usable 
account book but also a most stimulating 
approach to the budget. 

Household Weights and Measures. V. S. 
Dept. Commerce, Bur. of Standards, Mis- 
cellaneous Publication, No. 39, April, 
1920. 

As if in answer to the perplexed house- 
keeper's inquiries, "How many tablespoons 
are there in a cup?" and, "How much does 
a cup of flour weigh?" the Bureau of Stand- 
ards has compiled this kitchen card and 
had it printed for free distribution. In 
addition to the tables of common kitchen 
measures, approximate weights of some 
common dry commodities and other mate- 
rials, a brief e.xplanation of the international 
metric system, and common rules of meas- 
urement, it contains a table of heights and 
weights of children, furnished by the Chil- 
dren's Bureau of the United States Depart- 
ment of Labor. The card is printed espe- 
cially for household use, so it states, but 
home economics workers in many fields will 
find it a useful addition to their reference 
material. 



NEWS FROM THE FIELD 



The Ohio Home Economics Associa- 
tion at its meeting with the State Teachers' 
Association at Cedar Point, Ohio, June, 
1920, Edna Endly, president, presiding, 
endorsed the " French Truth in Fabrics Bill" 
now pending in congress. 

In a discussion of the value of sur\'eys to 
home economics, Edith Dickson, who had 
charge of the School Lunch Survey, made 
the following recommendations: (1) That 
no lunch be run under private management, 
and that funds from the lunch room be not 
spent for irrelevant equipment. (2) That 
there be follow up work so that the value of 
the lunch to the school child shall be known. 
When the lunch work is started the health 
record of the children should be kept and 
at intervals the children should be weighed, 
and special emphasis laid on the normal 
development of each child. (3) Sanitation 
and hygiene should be applied and health 
habits established as part of the school 
work. There should be careful super\'ision 
of the sanitary conditions of the lunch room 
and kitchen and medical examination of 
the employees. There should be proper 
facilities for the children to wash their hands 
before lunch and these facilities should be 
used. 

Treva E. Kauffman spoke on the survey 
as applied to home economics instruction 
in public, private, and religious schools, social 
centers, Red Cross, and commercial insti- 
tutions, and the following recommendations 
were made: (1) That all phases of home 
economics education be emphasized and that 
the work be not confined to merely cooking 
and sewing. That the home project be used 
as an effective method of teaching home 
making. (2) That well trained teachers be 
provided, who have a vien-point on the voca- 
tion of homemaking. (3) That more ade- 
quate equipment be provided. (4) That 



more provision be made for givingYshort 
courses in homemaking to girls and women 
through the part time and evening school. 

From the results of the survey as applied 
to the food served in such institutions as 
the county jail, county prison, homes for 
the aged, children's homes, there was the 
recommendation that there should be better 
supervision with trained people in charge, or 
a state or county dietitLin to supervise the 
planning of meals in all public institutions, 
thus making for economy and efficient 
nutrition. 

The opportunities that open before the 
home economics teacher, and the future 
psssibilities of the State Association were 
presented, and the general session resolved 
itself into Round Tables for the more inti- 
mate discussion of pressing problems. 

Pratt Institute. Helen Hollister is 
serving this fall as acting director of the 
School of Household Science and Arts at 
Pratt Institute. No permanent appoint- 
ment has been made to fill the place made 
vacant by the resignation of Isabel Ely Lord, 
who for ten years has been the Director, 
and who has been a member of the Institute 
for seventeen years. 

During her service she accomplished suc- 
cessfully the difficult task of reorganizing 
the School of Domestic Science and the 
School of Domestic Arts so that the work 
of both might be conducted as a single school, 
and at the same time raised the educational 
standard. All who have been associated 
with Miss Lord at the Institute, regret her 
loss and join in extending to her the most 
cordial good wishes, and those who have 
worked with her in home economics hope 
that the new work she chooses may be in 
the same field. 

555 



556 



THE JOURNAL OF HOUE ECONOMICS 



[December 



University of Illinois. Prof. Isabel 
Bcvicr received the honorary degree of 
Doctor of Science from Iowa State College, 
Ames, at the June commencement. Miss 
Bevier, who resigned from the University 
of Illinois at the end of the last academic 
year, consented to remain in charge of 
the Department of Home Economics until 
rebruar>- 1, 1921. 

Tlie Chicago School of Civics and Phi- 
lanthropy has always stood in close rela- 
tion to the .\merican Home Economics Asso- 
ciation, partly because we, like many other 
social agencies, have a common object — the 
betterment of the home, and partly because 
one of our honored members has been one of 
the directors and founders of the school. 
That school has now become a part of the 
University of Chicago as a Graduate School 
of Social Service Administration. Dr. S. P. 
Breckinridge and Dr. Edith Abbott have 
been appointed associate professors in the 
school, Erie F. Young an instructor, and 
Elizabeth S. Di.\on has been made Super- 
visor of Field Work. 

Phi Upsllon Omlcron. The Journal is 
happy to extent to Phi Upsilon Omicron, 
one of the national professional home eco- 
nomics fraternities, the same courtesy that 
has already been given to Omicron Nu in 
publishing items of fraternity news. Phi 
Upsilon Omicron issues a publication of its 
own, The Candle — that has been noted in 
the Journal, but asks the opportunity of 
keeping in closer touch with the American 
Home Economics .\ssociation and the read- 
ers of the Journal. 

Phi Upsilon Omicron held its annual con- 
clave in Colorado Springs, last June. Aside 
from routine business, the conclave program 
incluiied tlie consideration of several matters 
of importance both to the fraternity and to 
home economics. 

There were many evidences that the fra- 
ternity is making progress in its aim to pro- 
mote the profession. Two chapters, Alpha 
and Epsilon, maintain fifty dollar scholarships 



in their respective institutions, available to 
students in home economics. The two chap- 
ters maintaining fraternity houses showed 
ways in which these houses contribute to 
the Home Economics Department. A third 
chapter is about to open such a house. 
Gamma chapter reported having given 
twenty-five dollars to the fund for the estab- 
lishment of a chair of home economics in the 
Woman's College at Constantinople. The 
conclave recommended that each chapter 
contribute to this fund not later than Novem- 
ber first. Acknowledgment was received 
from Dr. Andrews of a contribution to the 
Ellen H. Richards Memorial Fund made from 
the interest on the fraternity's national per- 
manent fund. 

One of the best addresses of the session 
was that given by Edna N. White, president 
of the .\. H. E. A. and an honorary member 
of the fraternity, on " Professional Attitude." 
A resume of the address will be printed in 
Tilt Candle. 

Every active and alumnae organization 
sent its full quota of delegates, and other 
members, active, alumnae, and honorary, 
attended in sufficient numbers to more than 
double the official representation of the chap- 
ters and every one remained in Colorado 
Springs at her own expense to attend the 
American Home Economics Association 
meetings. 

On July 3, Eta chapter of Phi Upsilon 
Omicron was installed in the State Manual 
Training Normal School, Pittsburg, Kansas. 
The charter members are young women of 
the big, professionally minded type, and are 
sure to be a source of strength to the frater- 
nity. The infant chapter launched out at 
once to share in the fraternity's oldest piece 
of national professional work by giving 100 
per cent subscription to The Candle. 

The American Home Economics Asso- 
ciation will hold a meeting in cormection 
with the meeting of the Division of Super- 
intendence, N. E. A., at Atlantic City, 
February 26 to March 3, 1921. 



INDEX TO VOLUME XII 



Abel, Mary IIinman. Public Kitchens, 
263 

Absorption of fat by fried ^batters and 
doughs. 111 

Accounting: See Budget 

Acid-base balance and disease (Ed.), 186 

After the war — in Germany, 79 

Alimentary hygiene and rational alimenta- 
tion in the year 3000, 169 

American Dietetic Assn.* 142, 472 

American Home Economics Association 
Meetings: .\tlantic City,* 556; Cleve- 
land, 47,* 88 (Ed.), 236; Colorado 
Springs, 142,* 192* (Ed.) 234, 273, 421 

Americanization: See Diet; Social Work; 
Study and Teaching 

.\nnual Meeting: See A. H. E. A. 

Ark. H. E. Assn.,* 47 

Assn. .Vmer. Agr. Colleges and E.xp. Sta- 
tions,* 93, 471 

Assn. Land-Grant Colleges,* 93, 471 



B 



Baking powder: See Cookery 

Barrows, Anna. Fire and water in the 
class room, 1 10 

Baylor, Adelaide Steele. Vocational 
education in h. e. — part-time schools 
and classes, 473 

Beach, Dorothea. Practice houses a real- 
ity, 308 

Bevler, Isabel. Dietary studies, 63 

Bibliography of h. e.: 91, 139, 190, 283, 427 

Bigelow, Zella. Suggestions for a dem- 
onstration on the selection of clothing, 
69; The hygiene of clothing, 253 

Bills — Senate and House: See Legislation 



Blunt, K.xtharine. The present status of 

vitamines, 1 
BoNSEE, Frederick G. Educational re 

search in the practical arts, 241 
Book Reviews: 

Account books (household and per- 
sonal), 279, 554 

.\merican home diet, 513 

.\merican marriage laws in their social 
aspects, 89 

Bobbins of Belgium, 425 

Book of ice cream, 334 

Care and feeding of infants and chil- 
dren, 425 

Children's garments, 334 

Dietetics for high schools, 513 

Every step in canning, 333 

Family, The, 334 

Financial record book, 514 

Food inspection and analysis, 426 

Garments for girls, 137 

Hotel St. Francis cook book, 138 

Household arithmetic, 553 

Household weights and measures, 554 

Infancy and childhood, 425 

Manual of canning and preser\'ing, 3i3 

Material for permanent painting, 138 

Meats, poultry, and game, 426 

Mess officers' manual, 333 

Mother and child, 514 

Report on present state of knowledge 
concerning accessory food factors, 280 

Scientific problems of alimentation dur- 
ing the war, 138 

Teaching h. e., 137 

Twcnth-four little French dinners, 280 
Botulism: (Ed.), 84 
Boys and girls club work,* 336 
Bread: See Cookery 
Bryan, George S. Notes on early Xew 

England eating, 193 



Nole: A star indicates news. 

Abbreviations used are: Exi. = Editorial; h. e. = home economics: O. F. = Open Forum; 
Q. B. = Question Box. 

S57 



558 



THi; JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[December 



Budget: Budget information bureau,* 48; 
Card system of household accounting, 
37; Household budget, 270; Is there a 
standard budKut, 175; Minimum wage, 
39; Value of an allowance, 503. Su 
also Cost of Living. 



Cake: See Cookery 

Cal. H. E. Assn.,' 47 

Candy, Use of maltose sirup for making, 501 

Canning and Preserving: Some home can- 
ning costs, 178 

Card system of household accounting, 37 

Carsuth, Ella Kaiser. .\ card system 
of household accounting, 37 

Central Assn. of Sci. and Math. Teachers,* 
94 

Chautauqua School of H. E.,* 192 

Cheerful compromise, 81 

Chicago's experiment, 411 

Chicago Sch. of Civics and Philanthropy,* 
556 

Child care in the Ore. .\gr. Coll. practice 
house, 348 

Children: Child care in practice bouse, 348; 
Child health conference, 354; Coopera- 
tive nursery, 73, (O. F.) 277; Courses 
on child care,* 286; Food rules for school 
children, 182; Training children as lab- 
oratory work, 28. See also Nutrition; 
Social Work 

Clothing and Textiles: Bibliography, 139; 
Clothing information bureau, 325; 
Demonstration on selection of cloth- 
ing, 69; Homemade vs. ready-made 
clothing, 230; How an eighth grade class 
made their own course of study, 153; 
Hygiene of clothing, 253; Lesson in 
costume design (rhymes), 549; Price 
and value of textiles, 359; Research, 58; 
Shoes, 40; Shop methods in sewing 
laboratory, 260; Standardized tests in 
textiles and clothing, 486; Study of 
clothing purchasing habits, 491; Study 
of wool fabrics, 150; Teaching textiles 
in elementary and high schools, 217; 
Work of standardization committee, 
101, 221, 223. See also Legislation; 
Study and Teaching 



Clubs: See Extension Work 

CoLWELL, Rachel. The waste of natural 
gas, 225 

Comment and Discussion: Committees def- 
inition of h. c., 45; Mercantilism, 46 

Community motion picture bureau,* 336 

Community Work: Su Social Work 

Comparative study of b. e. courses in col- 
leges, 249 

Conference on natural gas, 141,* 225, 458 

CoNKLl.s', Hesteb M. One woman's solu- 
tion, 375 

Conservation: Fire and water in the clats 
room, 110; Is it the many or the lew 
who have changed, 544; Waste energy, 
506; Waste of natural gas, 141 * 225, 
458; Women and present day prices, 75. 
See also Cost of Living 

Constantinople: .\mcr. College for girb 
(Ed.), 86; Constantinople Fund (Ed.), 
86, 183, 384 

Consumption, The science of, 317 

Cook, Rosamond C. How an eighth grade 
class made their own cou rse of study , 1 S3 

Cookery: Absorption of fat in fo'ing. HI; 
Cooking prunes, 36; Effect of beating 
cake made with different baking pow- 
ders, 42 ; General rules for oven tempera- 
tures, 541; Recent advances in food 
selection and preparation, 15; Use of 
maltose sirup for candy making, 501 

Cooperation: Cooperative buying, 369; Co- 
operative nursery, 73; Public kitchens, 
263. See also Social Work 

Coss, MiLLiCENT M. Shop methods in the 
sewing laboratory, 260 

Cost of Living: Cost of liNing, 35, in Canada, 
504; Family living expenses (O. F.), 332; 
High cost of living (verse), 43; Women 
and present day prices, 75. Su also 
Budget; Conservation 

County agent,* 95 

Course for practice in homemaking adjust- 
ments, 133 

Courses on child care,* 286 

Cranor, Katherixe. Homemade vs. ready 
made clothing, 230 

Creed, Professional, 498 

Crigler, Ndja B. The relation of the ex- 
tension specialist to field work, 459 

Crothers, Samuel McChord. Quotation 
from, 81 



1920] 



INDEX TO VOLUME XII 



559 



D 



Daley, Agnes. Parents' meetings in the 
N. Y. schools, 496 

Davis, Marguerite. Observations on vit- 
amine content of foods, 209; Value of 
feeding experiments, 206 

Davis, Michael M., Jr. The food of the 
immigrant in relation to health, 517 

Denton, Minna C. Absorption of fat by 
fried batters and doughs. 111; General 
rules for choosing oven temperatures, 
541; What constitutes research in h. e., 
58 

Diet: Acid-base balance and disease (Ed.), 
186; Dietary studies, 63; Food and fare 
in Canada, 329; Food idiosjTicrasies 
(Ed.), 275; Food in Labrador, 469; 
Food of the immigrant, 517; Is the 
Chinese diet adequate, 289; Low protein 
diet (Ed.), 274; Notes on early New 
England eating, 193; Racial and other 
differences in dietary customs, 396; 
Vegetables — their fat-soluble vitamine 
(Ed.), 377. See also Food Values 

Dietary studies, 63 

Dietetics: See Diet; Food Values; Institu- 
tion Management; Nutrition 

Dietitians section, Phila. H. E. .\ssn.,* 335 

Digestion: See Diet 

Disease: For relation of food to, see editor- 
ials, 82, 84, 86, 134, 186, 274, 275, 424. 
See also Nutrition; Vitamines 

Domestic Art: See Clothing and Textiles 

Domestic Service: Eight hour service, 548; 
Keeping servants (quotation), 328; 
Teaching table service, 524 



Economics: The science of consumption, 
317. See also Budget; Cooperation; 
Cost of Living 

Editorial: Acid base balance and disease, 
186; Cleveland meeting, 236; Colorado 
meeting, 234, 273, 421; Diabetes and 
the war, 424; Disinfection of bathing 
suits, 277; Fess bill, 87; Food idiosyn- 
crasies, 275; Fund for Constantinople 
college, 183; H. e. abroad, 184; H. c. 
publicity, 551; How long does it take 



to print a journal, 186; International 
Office of H. E., 465; Iodine, 135; Is 
botulism a present danger, 84; Is the 
calcium of vegetables of value, 238 ; Jour- 
nal of H. E., 550; Lake Placid confer- 
ence on group living, 44, 235, 424; New 
departure, 82; New measurement in 
metabolism, 82; Rancidity of fat, 185; 
Results of low protein diet, 274; R6le 
of antineuritic vitamine in the artificial 
feedmg of infants, 84; Science section, 
468; Sending h. e. abroad, 86; Textile 
section, 507; Vegetables — their fat-sol- 
uble vitamine, 377; Yeast as a food, a 
medicine, a laboratory reagent, 134 

Education: See Study and Teaching 

Educational research in the practical arts, 
241 

Effect of beating cake made with different 
baking powders, 42 

Efficient arrangement in cooking labora- 
tories, 201 

Egg substitutes, 77 

Eight hour service, 548 

Eighty hour day, 43 

Elifritz, Olga. Gas utilization work of 
the Dept. of the Interior, 458 

EUen H. Richards Club,* 515 

End of an 80 hour day, 43 

Equipment; Efficient arrangement in lab- 
oratories, 26; One woman's solution 
(electrical equipment), 375 

Errata, 136 

Estimating food costs, 178 

E.xperiment in socializing h. e. education, 26 

Extension Work: Extension specialist and 
field work, 459; Farm life studies, 159; 
Farm woman's problems, 437; Score 
card for farm dwellings, 545. See also 
Social Work; Study and Teaching 



Farm life studies and their relation to h. e. 
work, 159 

Farm woman's problems, 437 

Fat: Rancidity of fat (Ed.), 185; See also 
Cookery 

Fellowsliips:* Fleischmann, 286; U. of Chi- 
cago, 48, 192, 286; Women's Educ. and 
Indus. Union. 142 



560 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



[December 



I'iftecn points of a professional creed, 498 
Fire and water in the class room, 1 10 
Food accessory factors in relation to the 

tectli, 482 
Food and fare in Canada, 32') 
Food of the immigrant in relation to health, 

517 
Food rules for school children, 182 
Food Selection: See I'ood Values 
Food N'alues: Calcium in vegetables (Ed.), 
238; Estimating food costs (per 100 
calorie portion), 178; Minimum food 
allowance, 319; Practical application of 
food study, 188; Recent advances in 
food selection and preparation, 15. 
See also Diet; Nutrition 
Food work in the single period, 246 
Foreign Diet: Sec Foreign Family 
Foreign Family: See Diet; Social Work; 

Study and Teaching 
Future administrative problems in voca- 
tional education in h. e., 299 



Galpin, C. J. Farm life studies and their 
relation to h. e. work, 159 

Gas: See Conservation 

Gas utilization work of the Dept. of the 
Interior, 458 

Geddes, Sis Auckland. Recent changes 
in British education, 429 

Gen. Fed. Women's Clubs,* 240 

General rules for choosing oven tempera- 
tures, 541 

Germany — after the war, 79 

GiBBS, WrNiFRED Stuart. Intention street 
(verse), 318 

GiLLETT, Lucy H. A minimum food allow- 
ance and a basic food order, 319; How 
can our work in foods be made more 
vital to the health of the child, 385 

Gladish, Nancy G. Chicago's experiment, 
411 

Glanton, LomsE Phillips. A study of 
wool fabrics, ISO 

Gleason, Agnes. Tea room management 
from the manager's point of view, 145 

Gloucestershire h. e. school,* 516 

Goiter (Ed.), 135 

Greely, Hugh P. The physician and the 
dietitian, 162 

Group li\Tng conference (Ed.), 44, 235, 424 



H 



Haines, S. Deborah. Teaching American 
table service to .\mericans, 524 

Halliday, E\t.lvn G. Effect of beating 
cake made willi different baking pow- 
ders, 42 

Handiwork, Youthful, from Italy, 297 

Health: Disinfection of bathing suits (Ed.), 
277; Food rules for school children, 182; 
Health campaign,* 239; Hygiene of 
clothing, 253; Is the average home 
sanitary, 130. See also Children; Cloth- 
ing and Textiles; Nutrition 

Health campaign launched,* 515 

HiCKUA.Ns, Entelyn M. The price and value 
of textiles, 359 

H. E. Abroad: Albania (O. F.), 379; Arme- 
nia, 131; Australia,* 556; Belgium (Ed.), 
330; Constantinople (Ed.), 86, 183, 
384; England,* 516; Foreign visitors 
(Ed.), 184; India (Ed.), 330; Interna- 
tional (Ed.), 465; Labrador (O. F.), 
469; New Zealand,* 556; Switzerland 
(Ed.), 465. 

H. E. Club,* 239, 515 

H. c., Conunittce's definition of, 45 

H. e. day, 499 

H. e. in a primitive Armenian village, 131 

H. e. school, Campden, Eng.,* 516 

Homemade vs. ready-made clothing, 230 

Home project work in Utah, 67 

Hospital health clinic, 312 

Household budget, 270 

Household Management: See Budget; Con- 
servation; Cooperation; Domestic Serv- 
ice; Economics; Equipment; Kitchens 

Household science honor society (O. F.), 551 

How an eighth grade class made their own 
course of study, 153 

How can our work in foods be made more 
vital to the health of the child, 385 

Howe, Percy R. Food accessory factors 
in relation to the teeth, 482 

Howell, Laura. Racial and other differ- 
ences in dietary customs, 396 

H. R. 12078, 127 

Hubbard, Gwendolyn Stanton. A hos- 
pital health clinic, 312 

Hubbell, Stella M. Food work in the 
single period, 246 

Hygiene of clothing, 253 



1920] 



INDEX TO VOLUME XU 



561 



If not why not, 337 

Information bureau (clothing), 325 

Ingersoi.i,, Blanche. A plan for reducing 
expenses in a school lunch room, 172 

Institution Management: Dietary studies, 
63; Group living conference (Ed.), 44, 
235, 424; Hospital health clinic, 312; 
Institution bureau,* 142; Physician and 
dietitian, 162; Tea room management, 
145. Su also Luncheon; Practice 
Houses 

Intention street (verse), 318 

lodme (Ed.), 135 

Is it the many or the few who have changed, 
544 

Is the average home sanitary, 130 

Is the Chinese diet adequate, 289 

Is there a standard budget, 175 



Jenkins, Hester D. Home economics in 
a primitive Armenian village, 131 

Johnson, A. Grace. Child care in the 
Ore. Agr. Coll. practice house, 348 

Johnson, Matoa. H. e. day, 499 

Jones, Herschel H. Cooperative buying, 
367 

Journalism, Training h. e. students for, 419 

K 

Kitchens, 327; Public kitchens, 263 

KOLL, Mary. Women and present day 

prices, 75 
Kkueger, Jean. A comparative study of 

h. e. courses in colleges, 249 



Laboratories, Efficient arrangement in, 201 
Lake Placid Conference: See Group Living 

Conference 
Legislation; liarkley bill, 101, 221; Fess bill, 
87, 127, 535; French-Capper bill, 222; H. 
e. education, 87 (Kd.), 127, .'^35; Kreider 
bill, 222; Long^vorth bill, 101; Rogers 
bill, 222; Textile legislation, 101, 221 
Lesson in costume design (rhymes), 549 
Lewis Hotel Training School,* 335 
Lunch room management course,* 95 



Luncheon: Lunch room management,* 95; 
Luncheon as a project, 415; Plan for 
reducing expenses in school lunch room, 
172 

M 

McAuiEY, Faith. The science of consump- 
tion, 317 

MacLeod, Sarah J. The household budget, 
270 

Malnutrition: See Children; Xutrition 

Maltose sirup for candy, 501 

Meetings: See under names of assns. 

Mendel, Alice P. Alimentary hygiene 
and rational alimentation in year 3000, 
169 

Menus: See Cookery, Diet 

Mercantilism, 46 

Meston, Helen. A project in household 
arts, 415 

Metabolism, 82 

Mich. H. E. Assn.,* 47 

Minimum food allowance and a basic food 
order, 319 

Minimum wage, 39 

Morton, Charlotte A. Efficient arrange- 
ment in cooking laboratories, 201 

MuDGE, Gertrude Gates. A nutrition 
class, 49 

Mdrlin, John R. What we have learned 
in dietetics from the army, 97 

Music in the home, 505 

N 

Nat. Academy of Sci,.* 239 

N. E. A.,* 240 

Nat. Research Council,* 239 

Nat. Soc. for Voc. Educ: Chicago meeting,* 
47, 93, 191 

Nesbitt, Florence. Cost of living, 35 

New England eating. Notes on early, 193 

New England H. E. Assn.,* 191, 286 

X. Y. child health conference, 354 

N. Y. State H. E. Assn.,* 192 

News Notes (other news items are starred 
throughout the index): All-.\merica 
conference on venereal diseases, 516; 
Bevier, Isabel, 556; Editor of Journal, 
192; Gleason, Margaret, 48; Gold- 
thwaite, Nellie, 142; Ky. home demon- 



562 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



(December 



stration agents and furm and home 
convention, 142; Lunchroom manage- 
ment, 240; Merrill- Palmer school, 48; 
National women's organizations, 48; 
N'. Y. Assn. of Dietitians, 240; Powder- 
maker, Florence, 516; Problems in 
mining towns, 48; Thomas, Edith M., 
516; U. S. Civil Service, 516; White, 
Edna, 48; Woman Adviser to English 
Ministry of Agr., 516; Woolman, Mary 
Schcnck, 192, 336; Y. M. C. A., 142 

Norton, Alice P. Is there a standard 
budget, 175 

Norton, Margaret Goodrich. A co6per- 
ative nursery, 73 

Not bread alone, 41 

Notes on early New England eating, 193 

Nutrition: Alimentary hygiene, 169; Anli- 
neuritic vitamines and artificial feeding 
of infants (Ed.), 84; Food accessor)- 
factors in relation to the teeth, 482; 
Food of the immigrant in relation to 
health, 517; Hospital health clinic, 312; 
Learning dietetics from the army, 97; 
Nutrition class, 49; Present status of 
vitamines, 1; Value of feeding experi- 
ments, 206; Vitamine content of foods, 
209; Work in foods made more vdlal 
to health of child, 385; Yeast (Ed.), 134. 
See also Children; Diet; Food Values 



Ohio H. E. Assn.,* 93, 555 

Omicron \u,* 96, 143, 224, 287 

One woman's solution, 375 

Open Forum: Albania, 379; Cooperative 
nurserj', 277; Family living expenses, 
332; Food in Labrador, 469; Household 
science honor society, 551; Plea for the 
teacher, 187; Practical application of 
food study, 188; Response to Mrs. 
West's article, 508 



Parents' meetings in the N. Y. schools, 496 
Parsons, Helen T. New York child health 

conference — impressions and reactions, 

354 
Partridge, Pauline D. One woman's 

solution, 375 



Personal queries on h. e. work, 258 

Petticoat lane to prosperity, 223 

Phelps, Ethel. A study of clothing pur- 
chasing habits, 491 

I'hi L'psiion Omicron,* 556 

Phila. H. E. Assn.,* 141, 335 

Phillips, Velma. Racial and other differ- 
ences in dietary customs, 396 

Physician and the dietitian, 162 

Pittsburg (Kan.) Normal School,* 239 

Place of the general course in h. e., 289 

Plan for reducing expenses in a school lunch 
room, 172 

Positions: See Possibilities in h. e., 166 

Possibilities in h. e. work, 166 

Poulter, Alice. A score card for farm 
dwellings, 545 

Practice Houses: Practice houses a reality, 
308; Training children in, 28, 348 

Pratt Institute,* 555 

Present status of misbranding acts and 
other textile legislation, 221 

Present status of the h. e. amendment to the 
vocational education bill, 535 

Present status of vitamines, 1 

Price and value of textiles, 359 

Pritchett, Louise. Absorption of fat by 
fried batters and doughs. 111 

Project: See Study and Teaching 

Public kitchens, 263 

Publicity work of the Dept. of Agr. in rela- 
tion to h. e., 527 



Question Box: Vinegar bees, 378 
Quotations (not otherwise listed): 174, 182, 
328 

R 

Racial and other differences in dietary cus- 
toms, 396 

Rankin, Norman S. Cost of living in 
Canada, 504 

Ration: See Diet 

Recent advances in our knowledge of food 
selection and preparation, 15 

Recent changes in British education, 429 

Recent work of the committee on the stan- 
dardization of textiles, 101 

Relation of the extension specialist to field 
work, 459 



1920] 



INDEX TO VOLUME XII 



563 



Research: Educational research in the prac- 
tical arts, 241; What constitutes re- 
search in h. e., 58. See also Clothing 
and Textiles; Cookery; Food Values 

Resolutions: See A. H. E. A. meetings 

Richards: See Ellen H. Richards 

Richardson, Anna E. Future administra- 
tive problems in vocational education 
in h. e., 299 

Rose, Mary Swartz. A nutrition class, 49 

Rural Work: See Extension Work 



Sanitation: See Health 

Saskatchewan Teachers Courses,* 335 

School: See Study and Teaching 

Science of consumption, 317 

Score Cards: Farm dwellings, 545; Table 
service, 524 

Sections of A. H. E. A.: Science (Ed.), 468; 
Textile (Ed.), 507; 5ee also A. H. E. A. 
meetings 

Sellers, Marie. Training h. e. students 
for journalism, 419 

Service: See Domestic Service 

Sewing: See Clothing and Textiles 

Shoes, 40 

Shop methods in the sewing laboratory, 260 

Smith, Harlan. The publicity work of 
the Dept. of Agr. in relation to h. e., 527 

Snyder, Melissa Fahrell. Possibilities 
in h. e. work, 166 

Social Work: Clothing information bureau, 
325; Course in homemaking adjust- 
ments, 133; Experiment in socializing 
h. e. education, 26; Food of the immi- 
grant, 517; Hospital health clinic, 312; 
Minimum food allowance, 319; Not 
bread alone, 41; Nutrition class, 49; 
Parents' meetings in schools, 496; Racial 
and other differences in dietary customs, 
396. See also Americanization; Chil- 
dren; Extension Work 

Some home canning costs, 180 

S. Carolina H. E. Assn.,* 240 

Southern H. E. Assn.,* 285 

Standardization: See Budget; Clothing and 
Textiles; Cooker>'; Research 

Standardized tests in textiles and clothing, 
486 



Stanley, LoL^SE. The present status of 
the h. e. amendment to the vocational 
education bill, 535 

Student Contributions: H. E. day, 499 

Study and Teaching: Administrative prob- 
lems in vocational h. e., 299; Compara- 
tive study of the h. e. courses in colleges, 
249; Course in homemaking adjust- 
ments, 133; Educational research, 241; 
Efficient arrangement in laboratories, 
201 ; Experiment in socializing h. e. 
education, 26; Food work in the single 
period, 246; Home project work, 67; 
How an eighth grade class made their 
own course of study, 153; If not why 
not, 337; Outline of general course in 
h. c. for high schools, 411; Parents' 
meetings in schools, 496; Personal 
queries on h. e. work, 258; Place of the 
general course in h. e., 294; Project in 
household arts, 415; Recent changes in 
British education, 429; Shop methods 
in sewing laboratory, 260; Standardized 
tests in textiles and clothing, 486; 
Teaching table service, 524; Teaching 
textiles in elementary and high schools, 
217; Training children as laboratory 
work, 28; Vocational education in h. e., 
473; Work in foods made more vital 
to health of child, 385 

Study of clothing purchasing habits, 491 

Study of wool fabrics, 150 

Substitutes, Egg, 77 

Subway bakery in Verdun, 374 

Suggestions for a demonstration on selec- 
tion of clothing, 69 

Suggestions for teaching textiles in elemen- 
tary and high schools, 217 

Surveys: Clothing purchasing habits, 105, 
491; Farm life studies, 159; Farm wom- 
an's problems, 437; Positions in h. e., 
166; Practice houses, 308 



Tea room management, 145 

Teachers College,* 239 

Teaching: See Study and Teaching 

Teaching American table service to Ameri- 
cans, 524 

Teeth, Food accessor)- factors in relation to, 
482 



564 



THE JOURNAL OF HOME ECONOMICS 



IDecember 



Tebaill, liEiiTBA M. Thc place of the 

general course in h. e., 294 
Textiles: See Clothing and Textiles 
Thrift: See Budget 
ToTTEN, RoGKR L. Personal queries on h. 

e. work, 258 
Training h. e. students for journalism, 419 
I'raining of children as part of laboratory 

work in home management, 28 
Trilling, Mabel. Standardized tests in 

textiles and clothing, 486 

U 

Univ. of Cincinnati,* 516 

Univ. of 111.,* 556 

Univ. of Md.,* 516 

Univ. of Mo.,* 515 

Use of maltose sirup for candy, 501 



Value of an allowance, 503 
Value of feeding experiments, 206 
Vermilye, Elizabeth. The training of 
children as part of laboratory work in 
home management, 28 
Vinegar bees (Q. B.), 378 
Vitamines: Quotation (verse), 174. See 

also Nutrition 
Vocational Education : See Study and Teach- 
ing 

W 

Waite, Charlotte. Suggestions for teach- 
ing textiles in elementary and high 
schools, 217 



Wang, On Che. Is the Chinese diet ade- 
quate, 289; The present status of vita- 
mines, 1 

Ward, Florence E. The farm woman's 
problems, 437 

Washington (State) H. E. Assn.,* 335 

Waste of natural gas, 225 

Wellua.v, Mabel T. Recent advances in 
our knowledge of food selection and 
preparation, 15 

Wengel, Edith, .\bsorption of fat by 
fried batters and doughs, 1 1 1 

West, Mrs. Max. If not why not, 337 

W'hat constitutes research in h. c., 58 

WTiat we have learned in dietetics from the 
army, 97 

WiLLARD, Meriel. Suggestions for teach- 
ing textiles in elementary and high 
schools, 217 

Williams, Florenxe. Standardized tests 
in textiles and clothing, 486 

WiNCHELL, Florenxe E. Suggestions for 
teaching textiles in elementary and 
high schools, 217 

WiNSLOw, Emma A. An experiment in so- 
cializing h. e. education, 26 

W'omen and present day prices, 75 

Wood, Bertha M. Thc food of the immi- 
grant in relation to health, 517 

Woodbury, Marion. Some home canning 
costs, 180 



Yeast (Ed.), 134 

Youthful handiwork from Italy, 297 



TX Joiirnal of home economics 

1 

J7 

V.12 

Food 

Sciences 



PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 
CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 

UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 



