1 i,n,if rw -' i 11 inTnri"rfrTyTr-'-'-f i T T— "•-TT - -^*-^-*^****^"* 



y^i^u- 




a JtH-^ ■">* ' l^t. <»AA^»,.Xljl<>«>».^C< C<'.^.(Ut^U 





THE LIBRARY 

OF 

THE UNIVERSITY 

OF CALIFORNIA 

LOS ANGELES 



Xi^ 



7 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2007 with funding from 

IVIicrosoft Corporation 



http://www.archive.org/details/foodfactsforhomeOOharviala 



Food Facts 
for the Home- Maker 



Food Facts 
for the Home- Maker 

BY 
LUCILE STIMSON HARVEY, A.M. 

Town Dietitian, Brookline, Mass. 




BOSTON AND NEW YORK 

HOUGHTON MIFFLIN COMPANY 

THE RIVERSIDE PRESS CAMBRIDGE 
1920 



117578 



COPYRIGHT, X920, BY LUCILK STIMSON KARVBY 
ALL RIGHTS RSSBRVSO 



o 



^ 



tx 

5 5 



355 



TO 

E. A. H. 



PREFACE 

This book is intended to be a help to the young house- 
keeper who is starting out in the new home without 
either a knowledge of science or the technical training 
which could help her. This is more often the case of the 
girl who has been to college and has devoted her time 
to other subjects outside the home, so that she starts in 
handicapped on the business of home-making, than it 
is the case of her sister who has stayed at home and 
has been trained there by her mother. 

The book is also intended to help those women who 
have kept house for years and who are excellent cooks 
and careful planners. It should give a scientific founda- 
tion to their technical skill, showing them the reasons 
why they have been doing certain things all their lives, 
and perhaps showing them ways in which they may 
shorten processes and thus save time and energy. 

In preparing this book I have used material I have 
been gathering for some years, but this has been modi- 
fied, or at least clarified, by what I have learned in ten 
years' experience in my own home, where for much of 
the time I have done all the cooking. I have used some 
of this material in my lectures during the past two 
years and a half in my classes in Dietetics for the Red 
Cross, in Food Conservation at Wellesley College, and 
at the Brookline Food Center under the auspices of the 
Public Safety Committee. 

Few women realize the great importance of the 
proper feeding of the family. Undernourishment among 



viii PREFACE 

our children in the United States is far more prevalent 
than is generally supposed, and is found quite as often 
in the homes of the well-to-do as in those of the poor. 
It is the result of ignorance rather than of poverty or 
the high cost of food. Children need a well-chosen but 
simple diet. 

This book is written primarily to show mothers how 
they can feed their children easily and economically. 
A little attention to the subject by the home-makers 
will make the greatest difference to the nation in pro- 
ducing strong, well-nourished men and women, cap- 
able of doing their part in carrying the great responsi- 
bilities placed upon our country at this time. I have a 
great hope that the mothers and home-makers of 
America will take the lessons of this book to heart and 
that it may play some real part in giving us a stronger 
and sterner race. 

This book, while it contains some recipes, is not in- 
tended to compete with cook-books, but rather to sup- 
plement them. I have kept the order of material 
customarily used in cook-books, that of following the 
courses of a dinner. This necessitated the present order 
of the two chapters on fats and sugars. If I had adhered 
more closely to the discussion of foods according to 
their chemical composition, these two chapters would 
have appeared in reverse order. 

Acknowledgment is due to the Department of Uni- 
versity Extension of the Board of Education of the 
Commonwealth of Massachusetts for permission to 
use, in chapter xiv, the material which I prepared two 
years ago for the Department course entitled "Foods 
and Nutrition." I also wish to take this opportunity to 



PREFACE 



ix 



thank the Walter M. Lowney Company of Boston for 
permitting me to reprint the plates showing the cutting 
of meat from the Lowney Cook-Book (The Walter M. 
Lowney Co., Boston, 1908). I am indebted to my sister 
Dorothy Stimson, Ph.D., for her assistance in revising 
the text. 

L. S. H. 

Brookline, Mass. 
September, 19 19 



CONTENTS 

I. The Importance of Food ^ i 

The housekeeper's responsibility ; the profession 
of housekeeping; health dependent on food; 
food habits 

II. The Kitchen as a Workshop 6 

Skilled labor in the kitchen ; plan of kitchen ; 
kitchen equipment: labor-saving devices; stoves; 
care of stoves; refrigerators; sink; utensils; 
cleanliness essential; dish-washing; personal 
cleanliness 

III. The Composition of Foods 17 

What is a "food " ; water; carbohydrates : starch 
and sugars, woody fiber; fats; protein; mineral 
matter: iron, calcium, sodium, potassium; 
"vitamines" 

IV. Milk and Eggs 26 

Dairying, an essential industry; make-up of 
milk; value of milk as food; how to use milk; 
care of milk ; grades of milk ; value of skimmed 
milk. Eggs : how to cook ; care of eggs 
Recipes : milk soups ; egg dishes 

V. Meat 42 

What it is made of; what makes meat tough; 
cuts of beef ; ways of cooking meat ; soup-mak- 
ing; roasting; broiling; stewing; poultry: to 
dress a chicken ; to truss a bird ; giblets 
Recipes : soup stock ; stews ; other meat dishes 

VI. Fish 69 

Groups of fish; buying fish; preserving of fish; 
care of fish 

Recipes : baked fish ; fillets of fish ; salt fish ; shell- 
fish 



xii CONTENTS 

VII. Other Meat Substitutes : Cheese and Legumes 85 
Cheese: food value; kinds; ripening; digestion 
of; care in the home; use in the diet 
Legumes: value as food; how to use; peanuts; 
nuts 

Recipes: cheese dishes; pea and bean soups; 
legumes as meat substitutes 

VIII. Cereals 105 

Changes starch undergoes; source of starch; 
structure of kernel; use of grains for food; 
milling; grains used for bread-making; barley; 
corn ; oats ; rice ; rye ; breakfast cereals ; cooking 
of cereals 

Recipes: cereal soups; baked dishes; oatmeal 
pudding 

IX. Flour Mixtures 120 

Wheat ; flours ; proportions for mixtures ; effect 
of ingredients; methods of mixing; leavening 
agents; soda and sour milk; baking-powders; 
yeast 
Recipes : muffins ; breads ; cakes 

X. Fruits and Vegetables 145 

Composition ; a source of minerals ; a source of 
"vitamines"; grouping of vegetables; cooking 
of vegetables; uses of fruit; summary of the 
cooking of vegetables; pectin 
Recipes : vegetable soups ; potato dishes ; vege- 
tables 

XL Fats 164 

Digestion; need to save fats; nature of; use of; 
table fats; cooking fats: animal, vegetable; 
place in the diet; rules to avoid waste; render- 
ing; care 
Recipes: savory fats; salad dressings; salads 

XII. Sugar 181 

Value as food; danger of improper use; sugar 
supply; kinds of sugars; complex, cane; simple, 
glucose, fruit; action on boiling; caramel; how 
to use sugar 



CONTENTS xiii 

Recipes : candy ; starch puddings ; fruit pud- 
dings; pudding sauces; gelatine desserts; 
whipped-cream desserts ; frozen desserts 

XIII. Food Accessories: Beverages and Condi- 
ments 211 

Place of tea and coffee in the diet; tea, kinds, 
how to make; coffee; cocoa; fruit drinks; 
herbs ; spices ; extracts ; pickles 
Recipes : coffee ; chocolate ; cold drinks ; mar- 
malades ; conserves ; pickles 

XIV. The Use of Food in the Body 229 

The process one of combustion ; the organs of 
digestion: mouth, stomach, intestines; influ- 
ences for good digestion; absorption; the uses 
of food in the body; elimination of wastes 

XV. The Measurement of Food Values 238 

The body need for fuel; fuel foods; the heat 
unit, the calorie; icx)-calorie portions; a suf- 
ficient diet ; dietary standards ; need for build- 
ing material; protein needed; other sub- 
stances needed 

XVI. The Making of Menus 248 

Cost of food; five food groups; division of 
food into meals; variety essential; breakfast; 
luncheon and supper; dinner 
Menus for dinners 

XVII. Food for Infants and Young Children 260 
Mother's milk best; conditions affecting 
breast feeding; modifying cow's milk; other 
foods for infants; regular feeding hours; 
cereal gruels added; other additions to the 
diet; good habits formed early; food for child 
2 to 5 years old. Sample diets: 12 months, 
18 months, 2 to 4 years old. List of foods 
allowed a child 2 to 4 years old 
Recipes : infant foods 

XVIII. Food for School-Children 273 

Good supply necessary for growth; signs of 
good health; the right food; vagaries harm- 
ful; the problem of lunch; the school lunch. 



xiv CONTENTS 

Menu for school lunch-box 
Recipes : cookies 

XIX. Food F6R=fi?vMliDs" ^ 282 

Typical invalid diets; serving; food require- 
ment in sickness; food for slight illnesses: 
colds, digestive troubles; food for special dis- 
eases: fevers, tuberculosis, diabetes, gout and 
rheumatism 

Recipes: invalid drinks, gruels, puddings 
jellies 

Abbreviations and a Table of Measures 293 

Bibliography 295 

Index 301 



Food Facts 
for the Home- Maker 



Food Facts 
For the Home-Maker 

• 

CHAPTER I 

THE IMPORTANCE OF FOOD 

There is one thing all men have in common with the 
animals — the necessity for daily food. For rich and 
poor alike a certain amount of food is necessary to 
keep the body in good condition. But the three meals 
a day, three hundred and sixty-five days in the year, 
are the bane of housekeepers the world over. They 
must be planned, prepared, and served with unvary- 
ing regularity in order to maintain the health and 
efficiency of the family. 

Although each household has different conditions 
to meet which make the problem more or less distinct, 
at the same time there are world problems jjjg house- 
and situations to-day which put us all on keeper's re- 
much the same footing whether we keep ^P°°s^°^*y 
house in our own homes or depend upon hotels and 
restaurants for our meals. The war has brought us 
face to face with the fact that each individual, in 
regard to the food he consumes as well as in other 
respects, is no longer a unit by himself, but is a part 
of the community, and is responsible to the world at 
large for his likes and dislikes, or for the surplus he 
consumes over and above his actual needs. 



2 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

This situation is true not for war-time alone. As one 
result of the war it ought to be brought home to each 
of us that we have a responsibility for food shortage 
wherever it exists. We should have a part to play at 
all times in alleviating and controlling famine condi- 
tions whether in Armenia, Serbia, India, China, or 
wherever else the situation is less favorable than it is 
for us here in America. 

But it is not only these extraordinary conditions in 
far-away lands which should cause us to take more 
heed to our food. We have learned some facts here at 
home during the last two years which should give us 
pause and make us wonder if we have put all of our 
great wealth of national resources to the best possible 
use. Why should such a large proportion of our boys, 
coming in most instances directly out of our homes, 
have to be rejected by the draft boards the country 
over as unfit for service? Would our girls have shown 
up any better? Why should fifty per cent of our chil- 
dren in our public schools be below normal in weight? 
Yet such is the case in the cities and towns where 
investigations have been made. Why should the 
United States be the only country where the death- 
rate is increasing between the ages of thirty-five and 
fifty-five, the period during which the individual 
should be of the greatest economic value to the State? 

Do not all these matters come straight home to the 
housekeeper? Is she doing her job as well as it ought 
The profes- ^^ ^^ done? No man starts in business at 
sion of the top, nor in this day does he begin to 

ouse eeping pj-g^c^JQe g. profession unless he has spent 
much time in preliminary training. Housekeeping is a 
profession of vital importance to the health of the 



THE IMPORTANCE OF FOOD 3 

nation as a whole; for a nation is only an aggregation 
of homes, and as a chain is only as strong as its weakest 
link, so the strength of a nation is only the strength of 
its weakest home. The individuals from such a home 
have to be cared for by the State or the community as 
a whole. This, then, makes the housekeeper or home- 
maker the most important member of the community, 
for the value of her services is judged by the economic 
worth and fitness for life of the citizens who come 
from her home. 

From this point of view it is evident that in order 
to make the profession of housekeeping a success, the 
fundamentals at least should be understood. Even 
college graduates going into business start at the bot- 
tom in order to become familiar with business methods, 
A mastery of the principles of the business of house- 
keeping is just as essential. This includes touching on 
many branches of science, biology, botany, physics, 
physiology, psychology, economics, and above all, 
chemistry. Besides this, a housekeeper should have 
some technical training; for, while experience is the 
best teacher, we can always gain in quickness of 
method and sureness of results from the experience of 
somebody else. This valuable home-maker of ours 
should also have some imagination and ingenuity, 
together with self-assurance, so that she need not be 
bound by a cook-book and prescribed equipment, but 
could use what material and utensils she has at hand 
and still produce satisfactory meals. She must also be 
able to gain variety through change of flavors, or 
manner of serving — appealing to the senses of the 
individuals to be served. 

Each home-maker must necessarily know the indi- 



4 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

vidual requirements of her group and regulate her 
Health de- meals accordingly. Too scanty food pre- 
pendent vents growth and lowers vitality, mental 

on food ^g ^gjl g^ physical ; so much so that mal- 

nutrition is acknowledged by social workers to be a 
cause of backwardness, drunkenness, and crime. Too 
much food, on the other hand, dulls the mind and 
clogs the body. Poor choice may mean loss of a day's 
work, or the lowering of efficiency because of a head- 
ache or other minor ill. How often we hear, "So-and-So 
has one of her bilious attacks"; or, "Daughter has a 
sick headache to-day." Improper food also lowers the 
power of resistance to disease and causes susceptibility 
to colds. 

In order to maintain the highest mental and spirit- 
ual life, the physical should be kept in such good 
working order as to be entirely subconscious. We can- 
not do our best mental work when we are conscious of 
the lunch we have just eaten. 

Nature plans wonderfully. An animal, when left to 
itself, will pick out of a wide variety of foods those 
articles which will be most conducive to its health and 
growth. Instinct, however, cannot be relied on en- 
tirely in the training of children. Complete loss of 
appetite is usually the first symptom in most illnesses, 
and an abnormal craving for some one particular type 
of food may mean the need of the body for some 
special ingredient in that food. Whims and fancies are 
very easily acquired, however, and whenever possible 
should be avoided. 

Habits and traditions have also grown up through 
the years concerning our food, and we still hear an 
ignorant nursemaid urge a child to eat the crusts in 



THE IMPORTANCE OF FOOD 5 

order to have curly hair, or tell an older child fish will 
give him brains. A meat diet has had to j. .^ 

bear the blame for crime and misery for 
years. 

Certain of our habits, however, are based on a 
scientific foundation. There is a reason for eating 
butter on our bread, or for serving pork with baked 
beans, or cheese with rice or macaroni. Nutrition is an 
exact science, and has been built up slowly through 
the years from the studies and investigations made by 
many famous scientists, each one adding one more 
round to the ladder of knowledge. Some of the steps 
have been: the discovery of the circulation of the 
blood; the function of oxygen in the body; the evolu- 
tion and measurement of heat and energy from food 
in the body; the composition of foods and their rela- 
tion to body activity; and the recent discovery, the 
presence or absence in foods of certain substances that 
are essential to growth. 

New discoveries and new studies are constantly 
being made with which the housekeeper should keep 
in touch. They are popularized sooner or later in some 
of the magazines, but the best way to keep accurately 
informed is to have one's name put on the mailing list 
for the Farmers' Bulletins, Bureau of Publications, 
Department of Agriculture, Washington, D.C. 



CHAPTER II 

THE KITCHEN AS A WORKSHOP 

In these days when human labor is in great demand 
and can command high wages, it is more necessary 
Skilled labor than ever to conserve effort in every pos- 
in the kitchen sible way. If the home-maker is paying 
somebody else to do her necessary housework, she 
should see that the conditions are such that it can be 
done with no waste of time or energy; while if she is 
doing her own work, she should plan so that she will 
still have time to devote to the enjoyment of her chil- 
dren and to share in activities outside her home, of 
which there are so many nowadays of interest to wide- 
awake women. The time has passed when the mother 
of the family is the household drudge working hard 
from six or before in the morning until eight or nine at 
night, often too tired to take any part in the family 
recreations, and too absorbed within her own narrow 
horizon to be interested in what is going on in the 
world around her. 

Many of our business concerns are employing effi- 
ciency experts to come into the factory or the store 
or the office, to study the methods used and to make 
recommendations for the saving of time here, the sim- 
plification of books there, or the use of more modern 
machinery or equipment in another place. Why should 
we not do the same in our business of home-making? 
It is easier to go on day after day doing the same thing 
over and over in the same way. Yet if we stop to think 



THE KITCHEN AS A WORKSHOP 7 

about it, the saving of one trip across the kitchen here 
or of two minutes in the washing of the dishes there, 
each time, would count up to six minutes saved each 
day, forty-two minutes each week, and in a month to 
enough time to have amounted to much value if put 
into good reading. 

The old-fashioned kitchen was an attractive place 
to look at, large and airy, often opening directly out of 
doors on two sides, with its spotless pine floor and its 
numerous pantries and closets especially interesting 
to curious and ever-hungry youngsters. But what a 
slave the woman was who ruled in such a place, and 
how hard her work was made for her! For years and 
years she had to pump, often at some distance from 
the house, all the water she used, carry it in by bucket 
and heat it on the stove. Dishwashing then was in- 
deed an undertaking compared with dishwashing to- 
day in our modern apartments where we have only to 
turn the faucet to have scalding water at all hours of 
the day and night. Then, too, the distances were so 
great between closet and stove, and stove and sink, 
that even if the family ate their meals in the kitchen, 
the cook must necessarily walk miles in preparing a 
meal. No wonder she was often too weary to eat any of 
it herself when she finally had it ready for the family. 

In planning a kitchen there are two aims which 
should be kept in mind. The first is to secure cleanli- 
ness as easily as possible; the other, to pianof 
make sure of the comfort and convenience ^^tchen 
of the worker. Thus the small kitchen has a great 
advantage over the large one. Where utensils are near 
at hand, many steps are saved and hence much energy. 
In these times of economy it is well not to overlook 



8 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

the fact that in order to have enough energy we must 
burn up food in the body; hence by avoiding waste of 
energy, we have an effective method of saving food. 

It should be kept in mind that a kitchen is a place 
for work, with a definite job to be accomplished — 
those three meals a day. A carpenter does not keep 
his hammer and his saw in one closet off at one side of 
his shop, his nails and screws in another, and his lum- 
ber in a third. He has everything close at hand, grouped 
conveniently about his work-bench. He can stand still 
and yet reach all his tools. A place for everything and 
everything in its place. So should it be in the kitchen. 
To be sure, it does not look as attractive between 
meals, when everything is cleared away, as does the 
one that has pretty muslin curtains and pots of flowers 
in the windows, a rocking-chair in the corner, and blue- 
and-white portieres in all the closet doors, and not a 
pot or pan, knife, spoon, or brush in sight. But that is 
a sitting-room, not a workshop. 

Everything about the kitchen should if possible be 
easily washable. Tiled walls are ideal but expensive, 
and an enamel paint that can be easily wiped off with 
a damp cloth is very satisfactory. Linoleum on the 
floor is more easily washed than wood and is softer 
under foot than tile or concrete. Oilcloth makes a good 
covering for closet shelves, and so does enamel paint. 
Tables can now be bought having enamel or a white 
composition top ; they are very easily cleaned and look 
well also. 

If one is fortunate enough to be building a house or 
can make suggestions at the time of building, it is well 
to put much thought into the arrangement of the 
kitchen so as to have it convenient. Plans of model 



THE KITCHEN AS A WORKSHOP 9 

kitchens can be found in books on Household Manage- 
ment ; but there are a few points to be especially noted. 
The sink should be well lighted both by day and night, 
so it should be just under or beside a window. Steps 
are saved by having the stove within easy reach of the 
sink, for much of the food to be cooked is prepared at 
the sink and kettles must be filled with water there. 
A kitchen-cabinet on the wall opposite the sink is far 
more convenient than pantries. Here the housekeeper 
can keep all the utensils as well as the materials needed 
in making breadstuff s, cake, pastry, etc., and has at 
hand the pastry-board and space for mixing. With an 
easily moved table on which hot pots can be placed, 
and the dishes after washing, and with shelves for 
china, the equipment is complete. 

There should be a shelf over or near the stove for 
salt, pepper, sauces, and flavors used at the stove. 
There should also be plenty of hooks over or beside 
the sink for utensils used at the sink, such as soap- 
shaker, sink-brush and shovel, egg-beater, meat-forks 
and skewers, vegetable-brush, potato-masher, whisks, 
etc. Each should have its own hook and should always 
be returned to that hook. No article should be there 
that is not in constant use. Also they should hang 
sufficiently high so as not to interfere with the cleaning 
of the sink. Articles to be used together should be kept 
together, such as teapot and tea canister, coffee, coffee- 
pot and coffee-grinder. 

It is best, if possible, not to have the refrigerator in 
the kitchen itself because of the heat; but it should be 
easily accessible both for the iceman and the cook. If 
it can stand in an entry, the iceman does not tramp 
through the kitchen bringing in dirt from the street. 



10 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

KITCHEN EQUIPMENT 

Many of us have to take our kitchens as we find 
them, and have no say as to the relative positions of 
Labor-saving the permanent fixtures. We can, however, 
devices ggg that the utensils and equipment are as 

they should be. More and more so-called "labor-saving 
devices" are to be had until it is easy to conceive of the 
kitchen in the future in which electricity will not only 
be the means of light and heat, but will also be the 
motive force for nearly everything, not only for dish- 
washers, but also for bread-mixers, ice-cream freezers, 
egg-beaters, etc. We are so accustomed to the Dover 
egg-beater, the Universal bread-mixer, the meat- 
chopper, that we can hardly think of them as being 
labor-saving devices ; yet a woman cooking for a good- 
sized family would not be without them. The efficient 
home-maker should be constantly on the watch for 
new devices that may really be a means of saving time 
and labor for her. 

The ideal system for cooking, whether it be coal, 

gas, or electricity, is the one which gives the largest ' 

possible percentage of its heat for the 
stoves "^ , . ^ . .. . . 

cookmg process itself without waste into 

the room, and at the same time puts a definite amount 
of heat under quick control with a great saving of fuel 
and labor in operating. Measured by this standard, the 
coal range is not ideal, since it loses much heat into the 
room, so much in fact that it is customary not to pro- 
vide any other means of heating the kitchen where 
there is a coal range. It is also very slow to control, 
though many like the results obtained, especially from 
the oven in baking. It also has the advantage over a 



THE KITCHEN AS A WORKSHOP ii 

gas stove of constant low heat for soups, stews, and 
other long-process cookery. It is dirty to care for, how- 
ever, and requires much energy in carrying coal and 
ashes. On the other hand, both gas stoves and electric 
ones have the advantage of being easy to control and 
to keep clean. When used in connection with a fireless 
cooker separately or as a part of the stove itself, either 
is far preferable to a coal or wood range for convenience 
and economy. Gas or electric stoves combined with 
fireless cookers can be found on the market nowadays. 
Whatever variety of stove is used, it must be thor- 
oughly understood and kept in good order. A coal 

stove should be taken apart and the drafts ^ , , 

Care of stoves 

and dampers studied carefully, so that the 
effect of each is well known. The underlying principle 
of all stoves is the same; that is, a fire to burn well 
must have plenty of air, as all burning is combustion, 
or the uniting of a substance with the oxygen of the 
air. In lighting a fire in the stove we empty the grate 
completely. Then we place the most inflammable ma- 
terial at the bottom — paper, excelsior, or shavings. 
The less easily ignited comes next — chips or kindling 
— and the hardest of all on top — coal or large pieces 
of wood. Before applying a match, we make sure that 
the drafts are correct. The one in the chimney should 
be wide open; the slide below the fire-bed should be 
open and the one above it closed; for the air must 
come through the fire from below and be able to pass 
unblocked straight up the chimney. When the fire is 
burning well, it may be checked by closing the chimney 
damper all or part way, and also the slide below the 
fire-bed. Care must always be taken to prevent so 
great a flow of cold air against the bottom of the fire 



12 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

as will check its combustion. If the oven is to be used, 
the oven damper must be closed, which forces the hot 
air to pass around the oven box before going up the 
chimney. To check the fire completely, the slide above 
the fire-bed should be opened to enable the cold air to 
blow in on top of the coals. 

No fuel should come above the bricks In the fire-box, 
and never should the fire be allowed to get so hot as to 
make the top of the stove red, as that warps the iron. 

The same principle of combustion is found in a gas 
stove, the air uniting at the point of burning with the 
gas coming through the pipe. The flame of a gas stove 
should be blue with a light-blue center. If it bums with 
a yellow flame, it is not adjusted correctly and the gas 
company should be notified. The oven doors of a gas 
stove should always be left open while It is being 
lighted until all the burners have caught, in order to 
prevent a pocket of unburned gas from collecting in 
the oven. 

Stoves of all types must be kept clean. They should 
be rubbed often with paper, and anything spilt in the 
oven should be scraped up carefully. Gas-burners as 
well as the tops of a gas stove can be removed and 
washed thoroughly at the sink with boiling water and 
washing-soda. Blacking makes stoves look better and 
preserves the iron. 

The principle of a refrigerator Is to preserve food 

through low temperature obtained by the melting of 

ice. In order to melt, ice must absorb 

engeraors ^i^^x^ ^^^ -^^ ^ refrigerator it draws this 

heat from the other compartments. Hence a perfect 
refrigerator should be so built that it cannot absorb 
heat from outside and has perfect circulation of air in- 



THE KITCHEN AS A WORKSHOP 13 

side. In buying a refrigerator, much must be left to the 
honesty of the dealer so far as the outside structure is 
concerned; but the purchaser can see for herself if 
there is allowance for good circulation inside and if it 
can be kept clean easily. Every refrigerator should be 
so built as to have a space between each compartment, 
so that the warm air rising from the food may pass 
over the ice at the top and the cold air from the ice- 
chamber may go down to the compartment below. 

A white lining, either tile or enamel, is attractive 
and dirt is easily seen; but if it cracks or chips easily 
it is unsatisfactory. Shelves should be removable, and 
if made of wire permit freer circulation of air than if of 
glass or slate. If the floor of the refrigerator is flush 
with the door, it can be more easily washed than if it 
drops below, though in this case the door must shut 
very tightly. 

It is extremely important that a refrigerator should 
be kept especially clean. Anything spilled must be 
wiped up at once, and the whole inside given a thor- 
ough washing with soda and water at least once a week. 
Hot water should be poured down the waste pipe and 
a long wire with brush end may be used to clean the 
pipe. If it is connected directly with the sewer, it 
should have a trap. 

Do not forget to wash the inside of the doors when 
washing the inside of the refrigerator. 

If it is possible to have a word about the sink when 
it is put in, be sure to have it set up high enough for 
comfort ; also to see that it is large enough 
to hold two dishpans comfortably, and 
that it has a good-sized draining-board on each side if 
possible. Porcelain sinks require a good deal of effort 



14 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

to keep them clean, especially if strong soap-powders 
have injured the finish; enamel on iron is apt to chip. 
Soapstone is very satisfactory and can be kept in good 
condition by frequent scrubbing with soap and a short- 
bristled brush. 

Every housekeeper has her own ideas on the subject 
of utensils, her favorite type of material and her favor- 
_ ^. ite shape and style. Aluminum is expen- 

sive to begin with, but lasts a, long time if 
it is of the best grade and gives very satisfactory serv- 
ice. Where the water is hard, it discolors easily and re- 
quires considerable effort to keep it bright. The heavy 
gray enamel-ware also gives good service and is easy to 
clean if not abused. As enamel-ware may be unsafe if 
the enamel has been chipped off, the base metal not 
being prepared to resist acids in the food, it is well to 
buy a good quality to begin with and to take good care 
of it. 

The kitchen is more than a workshop. It is a labora- 
tory where food is prepared for family consumption. 
Cleanliness As such, absolute cleanliness is of first im- 
essential portance with everything pertaining to its 

preparation. All food delivered to the house should 
come wrapped up. No town should permit flesh prod- 
ucts to be carried through its streets uncovered, or to 
be hung outside stores for display. Fruit and vegeta- 
bles should be very carefully washed before serving, as 
they have been exposed to the dirt of the street as well 
as to much handling. Dry groceries can be kept in 
glass or enamel jars to prevent dust falling in them, 
and should never be left in paper bags or opened car- 
tons. 

Cooked food should be carefully covered and cooled 



THE KITCHEN AS A WORKSHOP 15 

before putting into the refrigerator. It should be re- 
moved from the dining-room china or glass and put 
onto plates kept for that purpose. No food, no matter 
how small a quantity, should be thrown away. 
Freshly cooked breadstuffs should be cooled on an open 
rack before putting away in a well-aired and sunned 
bread-box. 

Plates should be scraped into a drainer in the sink. 
Very greasy ones could be wiped off with soft paper 

which is then burnt. All dishes are then ^. ^ 

•11 1 1 r • 1 r 1 -1 1 r Dishwashmg 

piled on the left side of the sink ready for 

washing. Rinse the milk and egg glasses with cold wa- 
ter. Use two dishpans, one containing very hot soapy 
water, and the other very hot clear water for rinsing. 
Wash glassware first, then silver, then the cleanest of 
the china, leaving the dinner plates and platter until 
last. Have a wire or wooden drainer to the right of the 
rinsing-pan, and as the dishes are rinsed stand them in 
the drainer. If the water is very hot, they will need 
practically no drying. If they are washed and put in 
the drainer in the reverse order from which they can 
be stacked when dry, it saves handling them twice; 
that is, if the dinner plates are washed last, they are 
dried first and can be at the bottom of the pile when 
ready to put away. 

Three towels should be used for wiping dishes and 
should be kept for their separate uses: a soft linen 
towel for glass and silver; a heavier linen for china; and 
a heavy crash one for pots and pans. If towels are used 
carefully and always rinsed out after each dish-washing, 
they will last a long time. They should also be given a 
thorough boiling at least once a week. 

No matter how much care the worker in the kitchen 



i6 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

takes with the food and the utensils, it is all of no avail 
Personal if she herself is not immaculate in her per- 

cleanliness gQ^ and her habits. The kitchen is no 
place in which to wear a dress too old and too soiled 
to be worn any longer in the parlor; but it demands 
a suitable uniform of its own. The dress worn here 
should be a cotton one, easily laundered, and so made 
as to be perfectly comfortable, with short sleeves, low 
collar, short skirt, and plenty of room. The hair should 
be kept very neat and should be confined if possible by 
a net or close-fitting cap. 

It is most essential that the hands and finger-nails 
should be kept with the utmost care, frequently 
washed, and always after coming from the toilet. Even 
then the hands should be kept out of food just as much 
as possible. It is not necessary to use the hands in order 
to get good results, as many old-fashioned cooks will 
tell you. Cake and baking-powder biscuit can both be 
made very satisfactorily without putting the hands in 
the mixture at all, and if the bread-mixer is used for 
making bread, that process too may be carried on with- 
out handling the dough. A palette knife (and not the 
finger) should be used for scraping out the mixing- 
bowl, and never should food be tasted from the 
stirring-spoon. A tasting-spoon may be kept for the 
purpose and not put into the whole mass, but some 
dipped out onto it with the stirring-spoon. 

This standard of cleanliness is easily achieved and 
should be accepted as attainable. 



CHAPTER III 

THE COMPOSITION OF FOODS 

Before looking into the composition of food, it is well 
to understand just what is meant by the term "food." 
In order to be a "food" a substance must what is a 
be fitted to serve a definite function in the " ^°°^ " 
body. The body must be fed in order to live. This liv- 
ing process is twofold, as we will see later. One half is 
the generating of the power to perform daily duties — 
walking, eating, breathing — and the keeping of the 
body warm; the other is the constant adding to the 
body structure which is called growth or repair of tis- 
sue. Hence our definition for "food" is any substance 
which when taken into the body will either produce 
heat and energy or build tissue. 

Every substance can be taken apart by a chemist in 
his laboratory in order to show of what it is made. If 
the parts still maintain the characteristic properties 
of the whole, no matter into how small particles it may 
be subdivided, that substance is called an element. For 
instance, a wedding-ring may be broken up and sub- 
divided into particles so small they could only be seen 
under the microscope, and still each particle would 
show all the properties of gold. Gold is an element. So 
also are silver, lead, iron, zinc, copper, and other sub- 
stances, both solid and gaseous, to a limited extent, 
which in combination or singly make all matter as we 
see it around us. 



I8 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

WATER 

Our food substances, like other matter, are made up 
of certain definite chemical elements. The simplest food 
substance is water, in which we have a combination 
of only two elements, hydrogen and oxygen, twice as 
much hydrogen as oxygen. 

Water plays a large and important part in our life, 
entering into the structure of all matter, even into 
what appears to the eye to be dry. Since water makes 
up two thirds of the weight of the entire body, great 
care should be exercised to see that plenty is provided 
with the diet. There should be at least six glasses a day 
for children and eight glasses a day for adults. 

It is also important that the water should be pure, 
for serious diseases may be introduced into the body 
through a contaminated water supply. Some of these 
are typhoid fever, diphtheria, and dysentery. It is 
never safe to drink from streams and brooks receiving 
the drainage of a valley; and wells should be placed 
with great care so as not to get either the surface or the 
sub-strata drainage from cesspools and barnyards. 

STARCHES AND SUGARS 

When we find a third element, carbon, in combina- 
tion with hydrogen and oxygen, we have a large group 

i-. 1- t. J X of food substances. In some of these the 
CarDouydrates 

same relation exists between the hydrogen 
and the oxygen as is found in water, twice as much of 
the former as of the latter. Hence this group of sub- 
stances is given the descriptive name of carbohydrates. 
They are just what the name implies, combinations of 
carbon with hydrogen and oxygen in the same propor- 
tion that occurs in water. 



THE COMPOSITION OF FOODS 19 

Foods of this group are familiar to all and are in con- 
stant use. They yield energy to the body, but do not 
build tissue. Starch is one of them, and is „ , 
the same substance chemically whether 
found in the potato or in wheat, in cornstarch or in 
tapioca, the difference being merely a matter of refin- 
ing. Foods containing starch — breadstuffs and cere- 
als — make up a larger part of our diet than any one 
other food ; and rightly so, since they are of vegetable 
origin and are less expensive than meat. They are also 
less costly to the nation as a whole; because it is better 
economy to obtain our food from the vegetable king- 
dom direct than to feed it to animals and then eat the 
flesh of the animal. Care, however, should be exercised 
not to have too much starchy food in the diet. It 
should never make up more than one third of the 
total bulk, and it should be used with a larger quan- 
tity of fruits and vegetables than many housekeep- 
ers are in the habit of serving. This will be more 
fully explained in a later chapter. 

Other familiar carbohydrates are the sugars. These 

vary somewhat one from another chemically, but those 

obtained from the cane, the beet, and the „ 

Sugars 

maple-tree are all the same. Others are 
found in fruits and help to give this class of foods their 
value in the diet. Sugar should be looked upon as a 
valuable food, but should be used in its proper place 
with intelligence. It will be discussed more fully in 
chapter xiii. 

There is yet another substance which comes under 
this head of carbohydrates, although it ^oo^y fiber 
is not a food proper in that it does not 
nourish the body. This is the substance which makes 



20 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

up the basic structure of all vegetation and is known as 
woody fiber, or cellulose. It has its function to play in 
the diet in the form of bulk, without which the diet 
becomes too concentrated and binding. If it is not 
sufficiently plentiful in the form of fruits and vegeta- 
bles, it must sometimes be introduced by bran muffins 
and coarse breadstuffs. The tendency is for our diet to 
be too refined, and this is the chief cause of the great 
American trouble, constipation. For this reason, if not 
for any other, it would be well for all of us to return to 
the coarsely ground meals and flours more in use in the 
days of our grandmothers. 

FATS 

We have still another group of food substances con- 
taining the three elements of carbon, hydrogen, and 
oxygen, though they are not carbohydrates. These are 
the fats. In them we find a larger proportion of hydro- 
gen than we do of oxygen, which gives them the power 
to unite with oxygen to a greater extent than can the 
starches or sugars. This means that they can burn with 
greater heat, and are therefore the best heat-produc- 
ing foods we have. We have fats of both animal and 
vegetable origin. Because of their great value as food, 
they should be used with care and thought. We have 
learned much from the war, and perhaps not the least 
of the lessons has been the disastrous effect of a short- 
age of fats upon the health of a nation. It is to be hoped 
that we have learned this lesson well, and that it will 
not be necessary in the future to call in the plumber 
so often to cut out the waste fat from the kitchen 
drain-pipe. The_ whole subject of fats is taken up in 
chapter xii. 



THE COMPOSITION OF FOODS 21 

PROTEIN 

As we continue the analytical study of our food sub- 
stances, we next come to a group of foods of far greater 
complexity of make-up than any we have met with so 
far. It is the group which comprises primarily the flesh 
products — meat of all kinds, fish, eggs, milk, and 
cheese. Into this group we can also put two classes of 
food from the vegetable kingdom, the pulses or legumes 
(beans and peas) and the nuts. It is found by analysis 
that all of these substances contain an element entirely 
lacking in carbohydrates and fats. This is nitrogen. 
Without nitrogen there can be no life, for it enters into 
the structure of all living tissue. Although it is around 
us abundantly in the air we breathe, it is impossible for 
us to utilize this nitrogen for our body structure and 
we must obtain all that we need from our food alone. 
Therefore this group of foods is especially important in 
the diet. Because of the greater variety of flavor, the 
group has grown to be the most popular of them all 
and is used far more plentifully than is wise or neces- 
sary. The family that "must have" meat three times a 
day is putting too heavy a burden on the kidneys as 
well as on the pocket-book. 

This food substance containing nitrogen is known as 
protein and is extremely complex in its chemical struc- 
ture. The nitrogen is in close combination with the ele- 
ments we have already discussed, hydrogen, oxygen, 
and carbon, and also with several others — sulphur, 
phosphorus, and iron. There are many kinds of protein 
substances that vary from one another in structure and 
behavior, but when used as food they nearly all have 
in common the power to build up body tissue. A surplus 



22 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

of protein material in the diet over and above what is 
needed for actual body structure, which in an adult is 
only enough to repair waste tissue, is split up in the 
body and partly burned for heat and energy, leaving 
the nitrogenous waste products to be excreted by the 
kidneys. Thus protein foods can perform both func- 
tions of our definition for food. As it is the most expen- 
sive class of foods we have, however, it should be kept 
exclusively for tissue building, and food from the vege- 
table kingdom should be relied on for all the energy 
needed by the body. 

MINERAL MATTER 

If food material is actually burned in a stove, ashes 
would be found just as from coal or wood; that is, the 
food would not be completely consumed. The ash is 
made up of mineral matter which does not readily 
unite with oxygen at ordinary temperatures. This 
mineral matter in our food would be largely iron, 
calcium, sodium, potassium, and magnesium, while 
chlorine would be driven off as a gas. All food sub- 
stances contain more or less of these minerals even 
though it may be only a trace ; but because of them one 
group of foods in particular is especially valuable in 
the diet. This group is comprised of all fruits and vege- 
tables. Besides being in themselves very watery and also 
being useful for their woody fiber, they are our chief 
source of mineral matter, unless we except milk, from 
which we obtain most of the much-needed calcium. 

An average adult human body if burned would 
leave about seven pounds of ashes. This mineral mat- 
ter, which makes up the bony structure of the body, 
enters into the nails, hair, and teeth, and also plays an 



THE COMPOSITION OF FOODS 23 

important part in the functioning of the different or- 
gans and body fluids, must be provided in the food 
particularly during the period of growth. This is an- 
other reason for the importance of having plenty of 
fruits and vegetables and also milk in the diet, particu- 
larly in that of children. 

Iron is needed to insure the proper functioning of 
the blood. Without it the blood is unable to absorb the 
oxygen taken into the lungs and to carry it to cells 
where it is needed to burn up the food. A patient who is 
lacking in iron is said to be anaemic. It is far better to 
keep up the necessary amount of iron by such foods as 
spinach and other greens, molasses, oatmeal, and eggs, 
than it is to give the patient iron tonics. In the one case 
the iron is in such combination with organic matter 
that it can be easily assimilated by the body, whereas 
in the tonic the iron is in inorganic combination and 
cannot be so well used. 

Calcium is needed for bone structure and is to be ob- 
tained from milk more than from any other food. The 
necessary daily requirement for an adult is found in 
less than i 1/4 pints of milk or in 2 1/2 ounces of 
cheese, whereas it would take more than 7 pounds of 
white flour to obtain it, or 21 pounds of beef, or 2 1/3 
pounds of turnips, or 2 1/2 pounds of carrots. It is also 
needed by the body for certain fluids in combination 
with both sodium and magnesium. 

Sodium is an essential constituent of the blood and 
other body fluids. It helps in the making of the hydro- 
chloric acid of the stomach. We use common salt, 
which is sodium chloride, so plentifully on our food that 
there is no doubt about there being a sufficient amount 
in our diet. 



24 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

Potassium, another of the necessary minerals to assist 
in the proper functioning of the body, is found in green 
vegetables and fruits together with magnesium. If other 
minerals are in sufficient amounts, these will be also. 

It has been found through experimentation with 

animals that a diet made up of purified protein, car- 

« ,7.x • « bohydrates, and fats, with minerals in 
** Vitamines »» -' ' ^ ' 

proper proportion, does not maintain life 
and growth. By introducing one type of raw food after 
another into this chemically pure diet, it was found 
that in order to have normal growth, the animal must 
have two types of substances hitherto unknown. These 
substances have not as yet been isolated and so have 
not been given definite chemical names. They are pop- 
ularly known as "vitamines," but this is not a scientific 
term. It is known, however, that one type of these 
food accessory substances is found in a few fats, such 
as butter fat, egg yolk, and cod-liver oil, in the organs 
of animals such as liver, kidney, and sweetbreads, and 
in the leaves of plants. It is known as " fat-soluble A " 
for lack of a better name. The other is more abundant 
and is present in all fruit, vegetables, and cereal grains, 
though it is lost in the highly milled products made 
from the grain where the endosperm alone is used. 
It is called " water-soluble B." Here again we have 
still another reason for the plentiful use of fruits and 
vegetables, and also for the use of the coarser cereal 
products. 

It is perhaps difficult for the novice to distinguish 
between all these different types of food substances, 
but it is certainly easy to remember that the safest 
diet is a varied one. We will go into this more fully 
when we discuss the planning of meals. 



THE COMPOSITION OF FOODS 



25 



Hydrogen) ) 

Oxygen j >• 

Carbon } 

Nitrogen 

Sulphur 

Phosphorus 

Iron 

Calcium 

Sodium 

Magnesium 

Potassium 

Chlorine 



.Water 

.Carbohydrates: starch, sugar, cellulose 

.Fats 

• Protein: meat, fish, milk, eggs, cheese; 
. pulses, nuts 



, Mineral matter or ash: fruits and vege- 
tables 



CHAPTER IV 

MILK AND EGGS 

Food substances fall into five distinct groups accord- 
ing to their chemical composition: 

1 . Those valuable for their mineral salts. 

2. Those containing considerable protein: milk, 
eggs, meat, etc. 

3. Those characterized by their starch content: 
flours, cereals, breadstuffs, etc. 

4. Those with a preponderance of sugcir. 

5. Those largely fat. 

The plan is to study the foods of each group sepa- 
rately, beginning with the protein group because of its 
importance in the diet and the simplicity which gov- 
erns its cooking processes. 

Of the protein group milk and eggs are by far the 
most important members. It is only necessary to think 
of the purpose for which nature intended them, to 
realize how great their value is. In both cases they pro- 
vide the entire food of the young animal until such 
time as that animal is able to find food for itself; that 
is, the milk and the egg not only are sufficient to keep 
the young animal alive and warm, but are also able to 
provide the material for building up the body. In the 
case of the egg, the chicken is fully developed inside 
the shell and gets no further sustenance than what was 
originally there until it breaks out of its shell. 



MILK AND EGGS 27 

MILK 

The maintenance of a dairy herd is considered to be 
one of the industries essential to the life of a nation. 
Dairy herds are the greatest single factor An essential 
in public health and should be carefully "^d^stry 
conserved. Because the public as a whole does not 
realize the full significance of this fact, the herds of 
dairy cattle are being rapidly diminished in this coun- 
try. Not only is milk a valuable source of food, so 
much so in fact that if all the milk now produced in 
this country were utilized to the fullest extent it would 
supply one fourth of all the food needed by the people 
in this country, but also a better return for a given 
amount of fodder can be obtained in the form of milk 
than in the form of meat. Further, it should not be for- 
gotten, when attempts are being made to increase 
agricultural production, that a dairy herd is also a val- 
uable source of fertilizer. 

Milk is called a "protective food" by Dr. McCul- 
lom, since it contains all the essential elements for 
growth. Its average composition is 87 per Make-up of 
cent water, 4 per cent fat, 5 per cent sugar, "^'^ 
3.3 per cent protein, and 0.7 per cent ash. It varies, 
however, as to its fat content, particularly according to 
the type of cow, a Jersey cow giving the richest milk 
with often as high as 5 per cent fat, while the milk 
from a Holstein is the poorest. Most States have fixed 
the percentage of fat below which the milk must not 
fall. 

The composition of milk is easily seen in the home 
by noting the changes it undergoes. When left to stand 
the fat or cream rises to the top. When it grows sour it 



28 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

separates into a solid, the curd, and a yellowish liquid, 
the whey. If the curd should be heated, it would grow 
tough and leathery, showing the same characteristics 
that the white of an egg does when it is heated. Both 
of these are protein material. The sugar and mineral 
salts are in solution in the whey and cannot be identi- 
fied on sight, but together with a soluble protein give 
to whey, when it is separated from sweet milk, its 
value as a food for some invalids. This sugar of milk 
is not as sweet as that obtained from cane and should 
always be used in modifying cow's milk for infants. 
It does not ferment as readily and tends to correct 
putrefaction in the intestines. 

Of the ash or mineral salts present in milk, calcium is 
especially important. Milk is the chief source of cal- 
cium in all our foods and is especially needed for teeth 
and bone structure. Since 2 per cent of the total body 
weight is calcium, 67 grams of calcium should be sup- 
plied each day in the ordinary diet. This is found in 
one and one fourth pints of milk, so that, according to 
Dr. Sherman, "every family should be using at the 
rate of at least one third of a quart of milk per man 
per day to provide for the calcium requirements of 
that family." The iron content of milk is low, but that 
can be made up for by the use of eggs and green vege- 
tables. 

One of the points in the value of milk as a food does 
not show in its composition. This is the fact that it 
has been proven to contain both of those food acces- 
sory substances necessary for growth known as " vita- 
mines." Hence a diet that is lacking in both milk and 
butter, where the fat-soluble A is found, would be near 
the danger line for lack of those substances. Dr. Mc- 



MILK AND EGGS 29 

Cullom asserts that "the greatest factor of safety in 
the human diet is the regular use of milk." Each adult 
should use one pint a day, and each child from one and 
a half pints to one quart a day. 

We hear frequently, " It is all very well to talk about 
the value of milk, but we cannot afford to use it at the 
present price." When the price of milk Value of milk 
went up because of perfectly obvious rea- ^^ * *°°^ 
sons, such as the high price of fodder and the scarcity 
of labor, the total amount of money spent for milk was 
actually less in one city than when the milk was 
cheaper. And yet milk is a cheap food even at its pres- 
ent price, compared with the cost of other foods and 
the value received from them. In cutting down the 
cost of the diet, the last place to cut is milk and the 
first place to cut is meat. No family of five — that is of 
two adults and three children — should buy meat until 
it is using three quarts of milk a day. This is because 
milk is a food and should not be looked upon just as a 
beverage to be classed with tea and coffee merely be- 
cause it happens to be in liquid form. One quart of 
milk supplies practically as much protein and energy 
as nine eggs or three quarters of a pound of beef 
of average composition, and can be bought for less 
money. When milk is eighteen cents a quart, we get as 
much food value for our eighteen cents spent for one 
quart of milk as we should get for: 

30 cents put into f pound of meat at 40 cents a pound; 
45 00 ; or 

45 " " " 9 eggs at 60 cents a dozen. 

It can be used as an economical substitute for meat or 
eggs, though it is not as cheap a food as flour or other 
cereal products. 



30 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

This does not mean that milk should be used by the 
glass necessarily, but it can and should be used in cook- 
How to ing. The top of the bottle may be reserved 
use milk for use on cereal for breakfast or for des- 
sert at dinner, and the rest of the bottle used in cream 
soups, as chowders, vegetable soups, soups made from 
dried peas and beans, etc. It can also be used for cream 
sauces to make a little fish or meat go farther. These 
can be served in a variety of ways, on toast, in patty 
shells, in individual ramekins, or made up into souffles 
or scalloped dishes. Then, too, it may come hard for 
some people to get used to the idea of a dessert being 
the meat dish of a meal, but such may be the case if 
the dessert is largely made of milk as in rice, bread, or 
cornstarch pudding, or in custard, or even ice-cream. 
When a milk dish is served either as a soup or a des- 
sert, the meat may be omitted altogether, and the rest 
of the meal made up of breadstuffs, plenty of vegeta- 
bles, or salad. 

Milk is just as good a food for microscopic animals 

as it is for larger ones, and as these multiply rapidly in 

. .„ a warm medium and are present in large 
Care of milk . . , , i i- r n i • i 

quantities in dust and dirt of all kinds, 

cleanliness and cold are imperative in order to have 
good milk. Milk may be easily a disease-carrier, bring- 
ing contamination from the cow, the barn, the utensils 
used, or the men handling it. The greater precautions 
that are used to keep it clean, the higher must the price 
be, of necessity; because these involve a greater ex- 
penditure for equipment and for labor. It is safe to say, 
as a rule, that the more we pay for our milk the cleaner 
it is. 
There are several grades on the market varying in 



MILK AND EGGS 31 

different localities in price and in name. A "certified" 
milk is a raw milk produced in a single Grades of 
dairy that has been especially inspected milk on the 
and approved by a board of examiners. It °^"^®* 
is certified to contain not more than a fixed number of 
bacteria to a cubic inch. Milk of this type is the safest 
to use for infants and young children. 

"Grade A" milk is a good household milk which has 
usually been pasteurized. Some dealers make the dis- 
tinction between Grade A and Grade B by having the 
former come from a comparatively small group of 
near-by farms, while the latter is an accumulation 
from many farms often at quite a distance. Milk that 
has been pasteurized has been heated to 145° F. and 
kept there for twenty minutes, then cooled rapidly. 
This is sometimes done with the milk in bulk, then 
afterwards it is bottled; but it is better to have the 
milk bottled first and then heated. This process tends 
to kill the most harmful of the disease bacteria with- 
out changing the characteristics of the milk. It must 
be thoroughly understood, however, that when milk has 
been so treated, it is not free from the possibility of 
further contamination. It is still a good culture for 
whatever micro-organisms may find their way into it. 

The process of pasteurization should not be con- 
founded with that of sterilization. This latter is heating 
the milk to the boiling point three successive times, or 
[holding it at boiling point for thirty minutes. This in- 
sures the killing of all bacteria present in the milk, and 
should always be done if the milk is known to be, or 
even thought to be, contaminated. It is also wise to 
sterilize all milk before giving it to a child who runs up 
a temperature which cannot be accounted for in any 
other way. 



32 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

After a reliable dealer has been chosen and a suita- 
ble grade of milk purchased, care should be taken in 
the home that the milk does not become contami- 
nated there. All milk bottles should be washed before 
opening, especially around the top even under the cap, 
and should be placed in the coldest part of the refriger- 
ator. No milk should be allowed to stand in an open 
pitcher or dish in the room where flies and dust may 
get at it. Only what is needed at the time should be 
taken from the bottle; if any is left over, it should not 
be poured back into the bottle for fear of contaminat- 
ing the rest. If the paper cap for the bottle has been 
punctured or thrown away, a tumbler may be inverted 
over the top of the bottle. 

All bottles and other utensils used for milk must 
be kept clean. They should first be rinsed out in 
cold water and then washed with soap and scalding 
water. 

Special notice should be taken of the value of 
skimmed milk. It contains all of the food properties of 
Value of whole milk except the fat, and so is a very 

skimmed milk cheap substitute for meat. It can be used 
in cooking where the loss of fat can be made up by 
cheaper fats, or it can be made into cottage cheese and 
used in various ways. If skimmed milk is bought as 
such, it should be used only in cooking, or else it should 
be thoroughly sterilized, as it is apt to be more care- 
lessly handled than whole milk. 

EGGS 

Eggs are not as economical a food as milk, and when 
they soar in price to ninety cents and a dollar a dozen, 
they should be kept for children and invalids by fami- 



MILK AND EGGS 33 

lies who wish to keep the cost of food down. They are 
valuable as being a light, easily digested, nitrogenous 
food, capable of being used either raw or in many 
varied combinations. 

It should be remembered in cooking eggs, no matter 
what the process may be, that the temperature should 
be kept low. Protein material when heated How to 
to the boiling point of water becomes cook eggs 
tough and leathery, while it solidifies into a jellylike 
mass at 175° F. In order, then, to cook an egg without 
having it become tough, it should be kept below the 
boiling point of water. When the egg is in the shell this 
is done by dropping it into boiling water and allowing 
it to stand away from the fire the length of time de- 
sired according to the various tastes of the family, the 
size of the pan used, and the quantity of water — four 
minutes for a very soft egg, five or six minutes for a 
harder one. They should never be boiled. The same is 
true of a poached egg. In order to obtain a "hard- 
boiled" egg, the egg may be left in warm water twenty 
minutes. All custards also and even scrambled eggs 
are better when cooked in the top of a double boiler. 

Eggs should be kept at a low temperature, but not 
below freezing point. As they readily absorb odors and 
flavors from surrounding substances, it is 
well to remove them from the paper box 
in which they usually are shipped and place them in a 
clean china bowl. In order to preserve them for some 
months, they may be placed in large crocks and en- 
tirely submersed in a mixture of boiled, cooled water 
and water glass (sodium silicate), one part of the water 
glass to nine parts of water. This merely coats the sur- 
face of the egg, thereby preventing the evaporation of 



34 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

the air from the inside and the entrance of germs 
through the pores of the shell from the outside. 



MILK AND EGG RECIPES 
CREAM SOUPS 

1/4 cup oleomargarine or i quart liquid (i pint milk 

other fat and i pint liquid in which 

1/4 cup flour vegetables have been cooked) 

2 teaspoons salt 
1/4 teaspoon pepper 

Melt the fat and stir in the flour. When these are well 
mixed, add the liquid and heat until it boils, stirring con- 
stantly. Add seasonings. To this sauce may be added 1/2 
cup to I quart vegetable stock and pulp, according to the 
strength or flavor of the vegetables. Beans, cabbage, carrots, 
corn, onions, peas, potatoes, squash, or turnips may be 
used, mashed through a strainer. 

To make peanut soup, add i /2 cup peanut butter to the 
thickened milk, or to make cheese soup, add 1/4 cup cheese 
cut in pieces. 

CORN CHOWDER 

I can com 4 cups skimmed milk 

4 cups potatoes, sliced 8 squares toast 

1/4 pound fat salt pork Salt and pepper 
I sliced onion 

Cut pork in small pieces and try out, add onion and cook 
five minutes, stirring often that onion may not burn. Par- 
boil potatoes five minutes in boiling water to cover, add 
potatoes and water to fat, cook until potatoes are soft, add 
corn and milk, then heat to boiling point. Season with salt 
and pepper, add the toast soaked in enough cold milk to 
moisten. 



MILK AND EGGS 35 

CREAM OF COTTAGE CHEESE SOUP 

I cup milk 1/3 teaspoon salt 

1/2 tablespoon butter Dash of pepper 

1/2 tablespoon thickening 1/4 cup cottage cheese 

Use the above ingredients (except the cheese) to make a 
thin white sauce. Cook thoroughly and cool slightly before 
adding the cheese. Neutralize acid of cheese with soda if 
cheese is sour, allowing i /4 to i /2 teaspoon of soda to i cup 
of cheese. Dissolve soda in a little milk and blend with 
cheese. Then stir the warm sauce gradually into the cheese 
until well blended. Reheat carefully, using as seasoning a 
slice of onion, a small slice of the yellow of the lemon rind, 
and a blade of mace or a little nutmeg. Avoid boiling the 
gauce after the cheese is added. 

POTAGE A LA REINE 

{Queen Victoria's favorite soup) 

I quart liquor in which one chicken has been cooked 
Season with salt, pepper, celery salt, and perhaps onion 

3 hard-boiled yolks of egg, mashed 
1/3 cup dry bread crumbs, moistened with i /2 cup cold milk 
White chicken meat, chopped fine 

Mix last three ingredients, add slowly to them i pint hot 
milk or cream, then add all to the hot stock. Boil 5 minutes, 
taste for seasoning and thickness. It should be like a pur6e. 

, ^ FARINA CREAM SOUP 

3 pints milk, or 2 pints milk 
I pint water, or 2 pints water 

1 cup farina 

2 eggs 

2 teaspoons salt 
1/2 cup grated cheese 



36 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

Beat the eggs slightly and add a little of the milk. Put the 
rest of the milk and the water into a saucepan, and bring it 
to a boil. Add the salt and farina. Cook 5 minutes and add 
the eggs. Cook a little, and add the cheese. 

Wheat cream soup is made in the same way, using wheat 
instead of farina. 

Other dishes containing a large amount of milk: 

Creamed chicken, or fish 

Creamed vegetables 

Dishes served with a white sauce 

Scalloped dishes 

Bread and rice puddings 

Cornstarch puddings 

Tapioca cream 

Custards 

SOFT OR BOILED CUSTARD 

2/3 cup milk 

I egg 

I tablespoon sugar 
1/4 teaspoon salt 
Vanilla 

Heat the milk in the top of the double boiler. Beat the 
^gg until smooth but not foamy. Add the sugar and salt to 
the egg. Pour the hot milk onto the egg and return to the 
double boiler, stirring constantly. It is cooked enough when 
it coats the spoon, and when the foam disappears. Strain 
and flavor. 

BAKED CUSTARD 

2/3 cup milk 

I egg 

I tablespoon sugar 
1/4 teaspoon salt 

Vanilla or caramel 



MILK AND EGGS 37 

Beat the egg slightly. Add the sugar and salt to the egg^ 
then the milk. Pour into a buttered cup and set in a pan of 
hot water in a moderate oven. Bake about 20 minutes or 
until it does not cling to a knife. 

POACHED EGG 

Boil water in a greased frying-pan. Add salt, i teaspoon 
to I quart of water. Draw to cooler part of the stove and 
carefully slip in the egg, which has been broken in a saucer. 
Cover and cook until white is firm, 5 or 6 minutes. Take 
up carefully with skimmer, season and serve on toasted 
bread. 

CREAMY EGG 

I egg 1/2 tablespoon butter 

I /4 cup warm milk Pepper 

1/4 teaspoon salt 

Beat egg slightly and add butter, salt, pepper, and milk. 
Cook in a double boiler over gently boiling water. As it 
thickens stir it slowly from the side and bottom, that it may 
cook evenly. Cook it until it is of a soft, creamy texture, 
remove from fire and serve at once on toast. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH TOMATO 

Season i pint of tomato with onion, celery, or parsley and 
sweet herbs. Cook and strain. Put 2 tablespoons butter in 
blazer, add tomato, when it is hot add 6 eggs slightly beaten, 
1/2 teaspoon salt, and 1/16 teaspoon pepper. Stir until 
contents are creamy. Serve with brown bread toasted. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH PEAS 
SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH ASPARAGUS 

Similar to Eggs with Tomato 



11757fi 



38 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH COTTAGE CHEESE 

3 eggs Salt Pepper 

2 tablespoons cottage cheese 

Beat the eggs slightly, season highly with salt and pepper, 
turn into hot, well-greased saucepan and scramble very 
quickly. When firm, stir into them as quickly as possible 
the cottage cheese. Serve as soon as thoroughly mixed. 

This dish is improved if the cheese has previously been 
mixed with pimento or parsley. 

COTTAGE CHEESE OMELET 

2 eggs I tablespoon chopped pimento 
l/4 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons milk 

3 rounded tablespoons i/8 teaspoon soda 

cottage cheese 

Beat the yolks and whites of the eggs separately. Add to 
the yolks the salt, the milk, and the cheese which have been 
blended with the pimento, finally fold in the stiffly beaten 
whites, pour into a hot frying-pan in which has been melted 
i/2 tablespoon fat. Cook the omelet slowly until the egg 
has set, place in the oven a few minutes to finish cooking and 
fold over in the center. Garnish with parsley. Other season- 
ing may be used, such as chopped parsley, green pepper, or 
minced ham. 

SCALLOPED EGGS WITH COTTAGE CHEESE 

6 hard-boiled eggs i cup white sauce ; 

1/2 cup cottage cheese i sweet red pepper cut in strips 

Cut the eggs into quarters and place about one fourth of 
the amount in a buttered baking-dish. Cover this layer with 
sauce into which the cottage cheese has been folded and 
sprinkle over it a layer of sliced green or red sweet pepper. 
Repeat until the dish is full. Sprinkle bread crumbs on top, 
dot with butter and brown in a hot oven. 



MILK AND EGGS 39 

LIGHT OMELET 

2 eggs ' I saltspoon salt 

2 tablespoons water or milk i /3 saltspoon pepper 

Beat the yolks, add liquid, salt, and pepper. Cut and fold 
the beaten whites into the yolks. Heat the pan very hot; 
butter the pan and add the mixture. Cook until brown, and 
the whole center is dry. Place in oven to set. Run a knife 
around the edge of the pan and fold over to the right. 

Add for variety : i tablespoon chopped parsley, or a tea- 
spoon fine grated onion, or two or three tablespoons grated 
corn to the yolks before cooking. 

Or spread on the omelet before folding, thin slices of ham, 
or three tablespoons chopped ham, veal, or chicken ; stewed 
tomatoes, or raw tomatoes sliced; chopped mushrooms, 
shrimps, oysters which have been parboiled and drained, 
cooked clams, chopped ; or grated cheese. 

OMELET SOUFFLE 

Whites of 3 eggs Juice of 1/4 lemon 

Yolks of 2 eggs I 1/2 tablespoons powdered sugar 

Beat the whites to a very stiff froth. Beat the yolks. Add 
them to the whites, then the sugar and lemon juice. Fold in 
carefully, and heap into a buttered baking dish or into paper 
cases. Dredge with powdered sugar. Bake until a golden 
brown. 

CREAMED OMELET 

3 eggs I saltspoon salt 

3 tablespoons of cream Pepper if desired 

Beat the eggs in a bowl until very foamy, without sepa- 
rating the yolks from the whites ; add the cream and season- 
ing and beat again. Place the bowl containing the mixture 
over hot water and stir constantly until the mixture begins 
to set. Turn the mixture into a very hot frying-pan, in 



40 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

which a teaspoonful of butter has been melted. When the 
under surface is brown, fold the omelet, turn it out on a hot 
plate, and serve immediately. 

FRENCH OMELET 

Beat only a little the whites and yolks of two eggs. Add 
I tablespoon of water or milk, i/8 teaspoon of salt and a 
dash of pepper. Turn this into a buttered frying-pan. Keep 
the mixture disturbed by lifting the edge with a knife or 
fork. When the omelet is set, fold and serve. 

A HEARTY OMELET 

I pint milk i teaspoon salt 

1/4 cup cornmeal 6 slices of bacon , 

3 eggs 

Scald the milk in a double boiler. Pour it onto the corn- 
meal and put back on the fire. Cook 15 to 20 minutes, stir- 
ring frequently at first. Beat the eggs separately; pour the 
meal mixture into the beaten yolks, add salt, and fold in the 
stiflfly beaten whites. Have a large frying-pan in which bacon 
has been cooked; remove bacon and pour off most of the 
fat; pour the omelet mixture into it. Bake about 1/2 hour. 
in a rather moderate oven. Serve on a platter garnished 
with the bacon. Use either white or yellow cornmeal. 

SPINACH OMELET 

1 cup cooked spinach i /2 cup cream 

J 1/2 tablespoons flour , 1/3 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons butter Few grains of pepper 
4 eggs 

Chop the spinach fine, and make a sauce of the butter, 
flour, cream, pepper, and salt, allowing it to boil thoroughly. 
Combine this with the spinach. Separate the egg-yolks from 
the whites; beat the yolks till lemon-colored, adding 1/3 



MILK AND EGGS 41 

teaspoon of salt and a little pepper. Beat the whites till stiff 
and dry and cut and fold them into the first mixture. Pour 
the egg mixture into a hot, well-buttered omelet pan, spread- 
ing the spinach over the top. Cook very gently for about 
twelve minutes till the egg is set and the omelet brown. 
Fold as usual. 

EGGS IN MASHED POTATO 

2 cups cold mashed potato 
1/2 cup bread crumbs 
1/2 teaspoon grated nutmeg. 

4 eggs 

I tablespoon finely chopped parsley 

I teaspoon drippings 

Mix the seasoned mashed potato with the nutmeg and 
divide into four parts (if the potatoes are stiff add a little 
milk). Roll in the bread crumbs and place in an earthenware 
dish which has been brushed with the drippings. Make a 
hole in the center of the potatoes large enough to hold an 
egg. Break the eggs one at a time into the center of the 
potato nest. Sprinkle the eggs with salt, or add a few slices 
of bacon. Place in a hot oven and bake until the eggs are 
set to one's liking. Sprinkle the top with parsley and serve. 



CHAPTER V 

MEAT 

Beef, veal, mutton, lamb, chicken, and all other ani- 
mal flesh are included in the general term meat. They 
vary little in their general structure, composition, or 
nutritive value. The population of the world is increas- 
ing faster than the number of meat animals, so that the 
price of meat is constantly increasing and there is no 
immediate prospect of its being lowered. Meat is usu- 
ally the most expensive part of the diet. Those fami- 
lies who desire to reduce the cost of living can do so by 
using less meat. 

When we look at a piece of raw meat, it is easy to 
see that it is largely made up of water, the actual per- 
What meat centage being about 62 per cent. We next 
is made of notice that there are two distinct types of 
tissue, the red lean tissue which is made up of protein 
material, and the fatty tissue. Since the fat occurs 
throughout the lean material as well as in the large 
sections easily seen, taking the place in the tissues of 
water, a piece of meat that is well streaked with fat 
would be more economical than a lean one. The average 
piece of meat with a moderate amount of fat contains 
about 18 per cent protein material and from 18 per cent 
to 20 per cent of fat. There is no carbohydrate in 
meat, but there is about one per cent of mineral salts. 

On further examination it is seen that raw meat is 
made up of distinct bundles of muscle fiber, giving to 
meat what is known as "grain." These bundles can be 



PLATE A 
SIDE OF BEEF 
BOSTON CUTS 




I 


NECK 


2 


CHUCK RIB 


3 


PRIME RIB 


4 


SIRLOIN 


5 


BACK OF RUMP 


6 


MIDDLE OF RUMP 


7 


FACE OF RUMP 


8 


AITCH BONE 


9 


ROUND 


10 


VEIN 


II 


HIND SHIN 


12 


FLANK 


13 


RATTLE RAND 


14 


BRISKET 


15 


FORE SHIN 



MEAT 43 

pulled apart into still smaller bundles until finally we 
see under the microscope that each bundle is made up 
of a group of hollow tubes held together by connective 
tissue. These hollow tubes or muscle fibers vary in 
length and toughness of structure with the age of the 
animal, the use to which the muscle has been put, and 
the length of time since the slaughter of the animal. 
Each tube contains a liquid which holds in solution a 
protein substance similar to the white of egg. It also 
contains the mineral salts that are in the meat, and the 
substances called "extractives" which give each meat 
its own peculiar flavor. The walls of the tubes are an- 
other type of protein material, as also is the connective 
tissue which binds the tubes together and unites them 
into bundles. Fat globules are found embedded 
throughout the meat in this connective tissue. When 
a piece of meat is carved with the grain, the bundles of 
fibers are not broken open, hence the slice is stringy 
and tough. When, however, meat is carved across the 
grain, each hollow tube is cut in small pieces, thus re- 
leasing the juice within and making the slice juicy and 
easier to chew. 

As an animal grows older, the muscle fiber becomes 
tougher, as also does the connective tissue. This also 
is true of the muscle that has constant what makes 
use. At the same time, however, the quan- some meat 
tity of juice in the muscle fiber is in- °^^ 
creased and the flavor is developed. A cheap cut of 
meat is a tough cut, but at the same time a juicy one. 
Therefore it is preferable for making soup or for the 
extraction of juice. 

In former times the fatted calf was kept alive until 
the honored guest arrived, since it was impossible to 



44 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

have refrigerating plants. Because it was used at once, 
it was a tender, juicy morsel. If, however, the guest 
had been delayed and the meat had to be kept twenty- 
four hours, it would have been found to be very tough. 
This is due to the hardening of the muscle fiber and the 
solidifying of the juices due to the cessation of the life 
processes. Because of this fact, meat is hung or kept 
for different lengths of time, depending upon the vari- 
ety. This permits the first stage of bacterial action to 
begin which again softens the tissue. With some kinds 
of meat this process is allowed to go far, as for instance 
with venison and game birds. Frequently in country 
regions a farmer butchers his calf and peddles the meat 
the next day. The housekeeper buying this meat would 
find it very tough if she used it that day. If, however, 
she kept it on ice for four or five days she would find 
she had a tender piece of veal. Chickens also are better 
if kept after killing for two or three days, unless eaten 
immediately after killing. 

CUTS OF BEEF 

There is some confusion throughout the country in 
purchasing beef because of the various ways in which 
it is cut in different localities. After the slaughter of the 
animal the beef carcass is always split lengthwise 
down the backbone into two "sides." These are hung 
by the hind legs, and the beef is shipped in this form. 

The retailer divides the "sides" to suit his trade, 
according to the part of the country in which his shop 
„_., „ is located. There are two chief ways of 

cutting a side of beef. One is known as the 
"Boston cut," and is used generally throughout New 
England. The other is the "New York or Philadelphia 



PLATE B 
BOSTON CUTS 





SIRLOIN ROAST 

A SIRLOIN B TENDERLOIN- 

C FLANK D KIDNEY SIKT 




TIP OF SIRLOIN 



RIB ROASr 




MIDDLE CUT OF SIRLOIN 




PLATE C 
BOSTON CUTS 



SIRLOIN OR PORTERHOUSE 
STEAK 

A SIRLOIN B TENDERLOIN 

C FLANK 




ROUND OF BEEF 

A TOP ROUND B BOTTOM ROUND 

C VEIN D SHIN 




BACK OF RUMP 




FACE OF RUMP 



MIDDLE CUT OF RUMP 



MEAT 45 

cut," and has been adopted quite universally through- 
out the United States except in New England. The 
New York method of cutting is used by the Depart- 
ment of Agriculture in their Farmers' Bulletins. It is to 
be noted that cuts of the same name may be taken 
from different parts of the animal in different locali- 
ties. This explains why a New Yorker is puzzled not to 
find as good beef in Boston as she is accustomed to in 
New York, and why a Bostonian is frequently heard 
to complain of New York beef. Accustomed to the best 
cuts at home under a certain name, they purchase 
quite a different cut under the same name in the other 
city. 

The side is cut across at right angles to the back- 
bone, making "hind" and "fore" quarters. Here lies 
the first point of difference. In the Boston ,,^ ^ „ 
cut three ribs are left on the hind quarter, 
whereas in the New York cut all ribs are left on the 
fore quarter. This means that the first cut of the fore 
quarter in New York is the same piece of meat as the 
first cut on the hind quarter in Boston. A prime rib 
roast, the same ribs in both cases, is the first cut of the 
fore quarter in Boston and the second cut in New York. 

Plates A and D show the "quarter" division line 
between sections (3) and (4). The pieces of the fore 
quarter are used for the same purposes in both meth- 
ods: the ribs (3) for roasts; the chuck (2) for roasts and 
stews; the neck (i) for soup stock, stews, and beef -tea; 
the rattle rand (13) and brisket (14) of Plate A, and 
the plate (10), navel (11), and brisket (13) of Plate 
D, are used for corning; and the fore shin (15) is used 
for soup. 

The greatest difference is in the way of cutting the 



46 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

hind quarter, and the confusion thus brought about 
_. is increased by using the same terms for 

different parts of the quarter. The loin (4) 
in both plates is cut in sHces at right angles to the back- 
bone for steaks or in larger pieces for roasts. The ten- 
derloin is an oval-shaped muscle lying underneath the 
backbone in this section. It is sometimes removed 
whole for a roast called a "fillet of beef," but is more 
frequently sliced with the sirloin muscle to form 
steaks. The "Club" or "Delmonico" steak is the one 
in which only the tip of the tenderloin appears. A 
"Porterhouse" steak is one in which there is a cut of 
the tenderloin through its thickest part. This relation 
of tenderloin to sirloin muscle can be seen in the pic- 
ture of a Porterhouse steak in Plate C. The terms 
"Club" and "Porterhouse" steaks are used alike in 
both the New York and Boston systems. 

The next section below the loin in the Boston cut is 
called the "rump" (5, 6, and 7 of Plate A). This part 
_ is cut out in a solid piece, and the bone re- 

moved. It is then divided into three 
pieces: the back, the middle cut, and the face. These 
are used for roasts, or cut in slices for steaks. The back 
makes the best roast, and is more economical than sir- 
loin roasts, as there is no waste. The other two rump 
cuts (6 and 7) are sometimes used for beef k la mode or 
pot roasts. 

I This section in New York (Plate D, 4) is still cut in 
slices like the loin to make the large sirloin steaks — 
the hip-bone, the flat-bone, and the round-bone sirloin 
steaks. These are not to be bought on the Boston mar- 
ket. The New York rump (Plate D, 5), used for stews 
and corning, is a cut which includes part of the Boston 



PLATE D 

SIDE OF BEEF 

NEW YORK CUTS 




1 NECK 

2 CHUCK 

3 RIB ROAST 

4 LOIN 

5 RUMP 

6 ROUND 

7 BOTTOM OF ROUND 

8 HIND SHIN 

9 FLANK 

10 PLATE 

11 NAVEL 

12 CROSS RIBS 

13 BRISKET 

14 CLOD 

15 FORE SHIN 



MEAT 



47 



rump, the aitch bone, and part of the round (Plate A, 
8 and 9). 

The round of beef (Plate A, 9, and Plate D, 6) is 
much the same cut in both methods. It is divided into 
"top" and "bottom" round (Plate C) ^^^^ 
according to the way the piece lies on the 
counter with the leg bone parallel to the counter. The 
top is used for steaks and roasts, though the farther 
down the leg the slice is cut the tougher the muscle be- 
comes. The bottom round is tougher than the top and 
is used for beef -juice, Hamburg steak, and sometimes 
for stew meat. 

The piece cut from the round in Boston, known as 
the "vein" (Plate A, 10), is used for a roast or for 
braised beef. It is stringy but juicy. The hind shin (11) 
is used for soup stock. 



Part 


Part 


How cooked 


Boston cut 


New York cut 




Fore Quarter 






Neck 


Neck 


Stewed 


Chuck ribs 


Chuck 


Roasted, wasteful 


Prime ribs 


Prime ribs 


Roasted, high grade 


Fore shin 


Fore shin 


Stewed and for soup 


Rattle rand \ 
Brisket > 


Plate 1 




Cross ribs (roasted) I 


. Corned 




Navel J 






Brisket J 




Hind Quarter 






Sirloin 


Loin 


Roasted or broiled, ten- 
der and well-flavored 


Rump 


I Sirloin steaks 
. Part of rump 


Roasted or broiled, 




juicy, no waste 


Part of rump 1 






Aitch bone 


Rump 


Stewed or corned 


Part of round J 






Round 


Round 


Broiled, stewed, or for 
pot roast 


Hind shin 


Hind shin 


Stewed for soup 


Flank 


Flank 


Braised or boiled 



48 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

It has been shown by the Department of Agricul- 
ture in a long series of experiments that there is practi- 
Ways of cally no difference in digestibiHty or nutri- 

cooking meat j-jyg value between the various cuts of the 
same animal or of different types of animals. The sole 
difference lies in the convenience of handling and in 
the length of time involved in preparing the meat for 
use. When the ways given in a cook-book for cooking 
meat are looked over, it is found that they fall easily 
into three groups, depending upon the result desired. 
The first group includes all recipes in which the juices 
only of the meat are used. This would include meat 
soups and broths of all kinds. The second group com- 
prises those recipes in which the piece of meat is served 
as a whole and great care is taken to retain all the 
juices, such as roasts and beefsteak. All others would 
fall under the third head, where the meat and the 
juices are served together. This includes stews of all 
kinds, pot roasts, beef k la mode, and all so-called 
"made" dishes, where the juices in the form of gravy 
are served with the meat itself. 

Since it is the juice of the meat that is desired for 

soup, a cut is chosen from a muscle that has had much 

use, not only because this is cheaper, but 
Soup-makuig , . . . . _^ 

because it contams more juice. Every 

kind of meat may be used alone or in combination; 
bones, pieces left from roasts, and trimmings may all 
go into the soup-pot. It is well to have some bone with 
the meat, for from the bone as well as from the connec- 
tive tissue, gelatine is formed on boiling. If the broth 
is to be used for a child or an invalid, instead of using 
fragments it is better to buy meat especially for this 
purpose, either the neck of mutton for mutton-broth, 



PLATE E 
NEW YORK CUTS 




RUMP OF BEEF 




LOIN OF BEEF 



PLATE F 
BOSTON CUTS 




FOREQUARTER OF LAMB 



MEAT 49 

or the shin of beef for beef -broth. The meat for soup 
should be cut in small pieces so as to have as large a 
surface exposed as possible. It should be well covered 
with cold water, and well salted and allowed to stand 
for about an hour. This draws out the juices. It is then 
put over a slow fire and allowed to heat gradually, but 
should never be allowed to boil, since boiling will 
harden all the protein material present in the juices. 
This is what forms the scum on the top of a soup-pot 
that ordinarily is carefully removed and thrown away 
as being unsightly. Soup at best, when made under the 
most careful conditions, contains only a small propor- 
tion of the total nourishment of the meat, since only 
that protein present in the juices is in the soup. If 
this is skimmed off and thrown away, it leaves only 
the flavor, mineral salts, and whatever gelatine has 
been formed from the bones and connective tissue. A 
cleared soup, such as bouillon or consomm6, contains 
practically no nourishment, but is merely a stimulant 
and should be used as an appetizer before a heavy 
meal. It should be noted that the meat left from soup- 
making contains by far the larger proportion of the 
protein material of the original piece. To be sure, it is 
tough and has no flavor, but it is far too valuable to be 
thrown away. It can be put through the meat-chopper 
and used, when highly seasoned, in " made-up" dishes 
of various kinds. ^ 

In order to retain all the juices as for a roast, it is 
necessary to seal up the outside of the meat. This is 

done by sprinkling a roast well with flour _ 

^ r . t 1 -1 Roasting 

to lorm a paste with the water m the meat, 

and then by putting it into a hot oven which quickly 

sears the outside. After this is done, the heat is reduced 



50 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

and the cooking completed at a steady low tempera- 
ture. When a roast is red in the inside, it shows that it 
has not been subjected to such heat as would coagulate 
the protein material and would toughen the meat. 

_ ... The same idea is carried out in broiling: 

Broiling . ... . . ^ 

a piece of meat there it is turned fre- 
quently until seared on both sides and then allowed to 
finish cooking more slowly. 

With our third group, which is by far the largest, the 
process involved is practically the same, even though 

there is a great variety in the finished 
Stewing , „f . , . "^ . 

products. 1 he idea is to use a cut of meat 

that is both juicy and tough, so to treat it as to make it 
tender, and to serve it with the juices extracted during 
the process. If a large piece of meat is used, as for a 
pot roast, it is usually browned all over on a frying- 
pan before it is subjected to a long, slow cooking in hot 
water. This latter may be done in the oven or on the 
top of the stove. Vegetables or various kinds of season- 
ings may be added during the process of cooking and a 
brown gravy made from the juices. The meat for a stew 
is cut up into one-inch cubes. These may be browned 
iin a pan for a brown stew or may be left as they are for 
an Irish stew. Then they are covered with boiling wa- 
ter and allowed to cook for a long time below the boil- 
ing point. If stews are allowed to boil, the protein ma- 
terial becomes tough and the pieces of meat are hard 
and leathery. Vegetables are usually added during the 
process and the gravy is slightly thickened with flour. 
The great variety of recipes in this group is due to dif- 
ferent combinations of flavors used by various cooks, 
each one having a distinct name. This process may 
well be carried out in a fireless cooker. In this case, 



MEAT 51 

however, the stew must be boiled for fifteen minutes 
before being put into the cooker. 

POULTRY 

Although the ways of cooking chicken may fall into 
any one of these groups, it may be well to add a special 
word on the subject. When buying a chicken we can 
distinguish between chicken and fowl in this way: a 
fowl has hairs on the body and not so many pin-feath- 
ers; the skin is also coarser, there are scales on the feet, 
and the end of the breast-bone is stiff and not pliable 
as in a chicken. A hand-picked chicken is more tender 
than one that has been scalded before the feathers are 
removed, although the other has a smoother, more at- 
tractive appearance. 

To dress a chicken or fowl, make a small incision 
between the end of the breast-bone and the tail, not 
deep enough to cut through the membrane To dress a 
surrounding the entrails. The fat can be ci^cken 
easily separated from the body of the bird and all the 
entrails can be removed at once if this membrane has 
not been pierced. Be careful to remove the lungs which 
lie close to the breast-bone and which do not come out 
with the entrails. The kidneys also must be removed 
separately. The crop can be slipped out through the 
neck opening without making an incision below the 
neck. The tendons of the legs may be pulled by making 
a cut through the skin above the joint before removing 
the feet. Remove all pin-feathers and singe off the 
hairs. 

After the bird has been stuffed and sewed up, it is 
trussed for baking. One skewer is put crosswise through 
the bone by the tail; another skewer is put through 



52 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER, 

the body at the largest part of the legs; a third is so 
To truss a placed in the upper part of the body as to 
bird for hold both wings in place and the end of 

roasting ^^^ neck which has been brought down on 

the back. A string is wound around the ends of the legs 
and the ends of the tail skewer, holding them securely 
in place ; then it is laced across the back of the chicken 
around the other two skewers making a harness to 
keep the wings and neck in place without having any 
string across the breast of the bird. 

If a giblet gravy is desired, the liver, heart, and giz- 
zard are removed from the entrails. Care must be 
taken to cut away from the liver the gall- 
bladder and any discolored parts. The 
clotted blood should be thoroughly washed out of the 
heart. The fat around the gizzard can be easily pulled 
off, and the thin membrane on the outside of the fleshy 
portion can be cut away with a sharp knife. The flesh 
can then be separated very easily from the heavy 
membrane enclosing the sac with its disagreeable con- 
tents. The prepared giblets should be dropped into. 
boiling water at once and simmered until tender. They 
may then be set aside to be used for the gravy when 
the chicken is served. 

One word further. Since pork and its products, with 
the exception of bacon, contain so much fat in close 
combination with the protein material, they are diffi- 
cult to digest and should not be given to children nor 
adults who have weak digestion. Crisp bacon fat is, 
however, one of the most digestible of the fats and can 
be used freely in combination with potatoes and other 
vegetables. 



MEAT 53 

MEAT RECIPES 

SOUP STOCK 

4 pounds meat i /4 of a sweet pepper 

4 pints cold water 1 1/2 teaspoons sweet herbs (mar- 

2 teaspoons salt joram, thyme, etc.) 

10-12 peppercorns or 1/4 cup each carrot, onion, 

1 sprig parsley celery, turnip, cut in 
4 cloves small pieces 

1/2 of a bay leaf 

Wash and cut meat and bones. Put in kettle with cold 
water, and soak for 1/2 hour. Place over fire and heat slowly 
to the boiling point. Simmer 5 or 6 hours. Strain and cool. 

TO CLARIFY SOUP STOCK 

Remove fat from the stock (strain through cheesecloth). 
Allow the white and shell of i egg to each pint of stock. 
Beat the white slightly, crush the shell, and add to the cold 
stock. Stir over the fire until the boiling point is reached. 
Boil 3 to 5 minutes according to the amount of stock. Set 
on the back of the stove to settle for 10 minutes. Remove the 
scum. Strain through a sieve set on top of cheesecloth. If 
necessary reheat before serving. 

Season soup to taste before clearing. 

Lean raw meat may be used instead of white of egg. It is 
more bother to handle, but is cheaper than eggs when stock 
is to be cleared in large quantity. 

SOUP STOCK 

4 pounds of the "meat end" of a hind shin of beef 

2 quarts very cold water 
I onion, sliced across 

Salt, pepper, some bay leaves 
I egg 



54 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

Cut meat and bone into inch cubes. Pour the cold water 
over it. Stand overnight in a cool place. In the morning put 
on stove and heat slowly. It should simmer and not boil, 
for 6 or 8 hours. Strain through a sieve into a wide bowl. 
The next day remove the fat. Add the onion, seasonings, 
and egg beaten up with the shell. Stir until it boils. Then 
add enough caramel to give it color and let all boil 45 min- 
utes. Strain through scrim into a bowl. 

PLAIN STEW 

I pound breast of veal or lamb i tablespoon butter 

(meat and bone) i onion 

I teaspoon salt i carrot 

I/16 teaspoon pepper i turnip 

I quart water or stock 2 potatoes 

Gravy: i to 2 tablespoons flour 
I to 2 tablespoons water 

Cut meat in small pieces, put with salt, pepper, and cold 
water or stock in saucepan. Raise slowly to simmering point 
and keep it there until tender, 2 or 3 hours. Cut vegetables 
into small pieces or fancy shapes, brown them in butter and 
add to the stew half an hour before serving, giving time 
enough to cook the vegetables. Take the solid material out, 
thicken and season the gravy, and serve all together. 

BEEF STEW 

The five chuck ribs may be used for stew, the rump piece, 
or the upper part of the round. 

5 pounds of either of the above cuts i onion cut in slices 
4 cups potatoes cut in thin slices 1/4 cup flour 
1/2 cup carrots diced Salt and pepper 

Remove bone, wipe meat and cut into pieces i inch 
square, and dredge thickly with flour. 

Render slowly 2 tablespoons suet fat. Add the meat to 



MEAT 55 

the fat and brown. Add remaining fat and bone, also flour. 
Add cold water to partly cover, raise it to simmering point 
and allow it to simmer gently until meat is tender. Add 
carrot and onion with seasonings the last hour of cooking. 
Parboil potatoes and add to stew the last 15 minutes. Re- 
move bone and any pieces of fat, and skim the stew care- 
fully before serving. 

BRAISED BEEF 

3 pounds beef from lower part Carrot 

of round or face of rump Turnip I 1/4 cup each, 

2 thin slices fat salt pork Onion f cut in dice 
1/2 teaspoon peppercorns Celery ^ 

3 cloves Salt and pepper 

I bay leaf 

Try out pork and remove scraps. Wipe meat, sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, dredge with flour, and brown entire 
surface in pork fat. Place on trivet in deep granite pan or in 
earthen pudding-dish, and surround with vegetables, pepper- 
corns, and 3 cups boiling water; cover closely and bake 4 
hours in very slow oven, basting every 1/2 hour, and turn 
after second hour. Throughout the cooking the liquid should 
be kept below the boiling point. Serve with horseradish 
sauce, or with brown sauce made from liquor in pan. 

MOCK DUCK 

Sear 2 pounds flank or skirt steak, stuff, and roll it, tie 
it, and put in double roasting-pan with water under it. Cook 
3 hours in slow oven, never allowing water to cook out en- 
tirely. Serve hot, making a sauce with liquor in pan, season- 
ing with tomato. 

STUFFING 

I cup bread crumbs I teaspoon minced parsley 

I teaspoon salt i teaspoon chopped pickle 

1/4 teaspoon pepper i teaspoon onion juice 

I teaspoon lemon juice 1/4 cup melted butter 



56 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

BEEF OLIVES 

Cut chuck steak 1/2 inch thick; take pieces 4 inches 
square, sear them both sides, put stuffing on them, roll, and 
tie. Put in double roasting pan with brown sauce under- 
neath. Cook in slow oven 2 hours. Season sauce and serve. 

HAMBURG STEAK 

I pound chuck steak i teaspoon salt 

I onion 1/3 teaspoon pepper 

Chop meat and onion together, season, make into firm 
balls, sear in butter, reduce the temperature, turn balls 
often, and serve rare. 

SALISBURY STEAK 

I pound chopped chuck i tablespoon lemon juice 
I teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons minced parsley- 

Make into firm balls, sear in hot butter, cook at a lower 
temperature, turning often, serve rare. 

MEAT BALLS WITH HORSERADISH SAUCE 

I pound chopped chuck 1/6 teaspoon pepper 
I teaspoon salt 
Cook according to directions for Salisbury steak. Serve 
with sauce: 

1/2 cup horseradish 1/2 cup cream 

1/2 cup cracker dust i teaspoon mustard 

I teaspoon salt 1/4 cup vinegar 

1/16 teaspoon pepper 2 teaspoons powdered sugar 

Mix salt, pepper, cracker and horseradish. Make paste of 
mustard and cream in a spoon, add it with cream to mixture. 
Add full amount of vinegar if horseradish is fresh, and heat 
the materials over water. Serve hot. 



MEAT 57 

GERMAN HORSERADISH SAUCE 

1/2 cup horseradish i teaspoon salt 

Vinegar to cover i sour apple grated 

2 teaspoons sugar Serve cold 

ROAST BREAST OF LAMB 

Prepare meat by skinning, trimming if necessary, and 
wiping with damp cloth. Plunge into boiling salted water 
and simmer until tender. Take from the water, remove bones, 
place on rack in dripping-pan, cover with buttered crumbs, 
and bake until brown. Serve with brown tomato sauce using 
the water it was cooked in as part of the liquid. 

BOn,ED LEG OF MUTTON 

Wipe meat, place in a kettle, and cover with boiling water. 
Bring quickly to boiling point, boil 5 minutes, and skim. 
Set on back of range and simmer until meat is tender. When 
half done, add i tablespoon salt. Thirty minutes before re- 
moving the meat add one cup of soup vegetables. Cut the 
carrot and turnip in half-inch thick slices and stamp with 
Huted cutter. Place the meat on a hot dish, and rub lightly 
over it enough of the white sauce (to be used for the caper 
sauce) to make surface white and smooth. Sprinkle with 
chopped parsley or capers. Cut a hole in the center of the 
sliced vegetables and string them alternately on the bone. 
Serve with caper sauce, or add to two cups white sauce 
(made of half milk and half mutton stock) two hard-boiled 
eggs cut in slices. 

MUTTON STEW 

I pound flank of mutton 3 slices turnip 
I small onion i tablespoon butter 

3 slices carrot 2 tablespoons flour 

Pepper and salt 



58 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

Cut mutton into small pieces. Season and place in earthen 
dish. Add vegetables; mix butter and flour, add hot water 
and pour over meat. Cover with boiling water, add salt to 
taste. Boil 15 minutes, and cook 5 hours in fireless cooker. 

STUFFED SPARERIB 

I whole spare rib cracked in middle 
4 apples 
/ 1/4 pound raisins 

Wipe meat with damp cloth. Slice apples, seed raisins, 
place on half of sparerib, fold balance over it, tie or sew 
together. Put it on rack in roasting-pan and into hot oven. 
After 10 minutes, or when outside is seared, reduce tempera- 
ture of oven and put a little water in pan with which to 
baste roast occasionally. Cook 2 hours. Serve with gravy 
made from liquor in pan. 

FRIED SALT PORK 

Cut salt side pork very thin, lay each piece in flour and 
put into a hot frying-pan, cook until light brown. Place on 
hot platter. 

Pour from the pan all but 2 tablespoons fat. Add 2 table- 
spoons flour and i cup milk as in white sauce. Season and 
serve with baked potatoes. ^ 

CORNED BEEF HASH 

Drop the corned beef into boiling water and simmer, 
allowing 30 minutes to the pound. When cold chop rather 
coarse. Chop cold cooked potatoes coarse also. Dry bread 
may be used instead of part of the potato, and improves 
hash. 

4 cups meat 2 teaspoons salt 

4 cups potato I /4 teaspoon pepper 

4 tablespoons butter i cup milk 



MEAT 59 

Butter the bottom of a skillet, put in it the mixture of 
meat and potato. Over the top put seasoning and butter. 
Add the milk and put the skillet in the oven. Let it remain 
there half an hour, stirring every lo minutes. If browned 
hash is desired reserve half of the butter and after the second 
stirring melt the butter in a frying-pan, put the mixture 
into it, and cook on the top of the stove, without stirring, 
until brown underneath. Fold and serve. 

BEEF, OATMEAL, AND TOMATO 

1 pound shin of beef 1/3 cup oatmeal 

2 sausages I teaspoon Worcestershire Sauce 
I cup canned tomatoes Salt and pepper 

Cut beef into small pieces, and season with salt and pep- 
per. Cut sausages into inch pieces, roll in flour, and put into 
earthen dish with beef. Add other ingredients and cook 5 
hours in fireless cooker. 

BEEF ROLL 

10 ounces lean beef from Salt and pepper 
shoulder or shin i slice onion 

2 ounces sausage meat 1/2 teaspoon Worcestershire Sauce 
Bread crumbs 2 teaspoons tomato catsup 

Mix sausage meat with equal quantity of stale bread 
crumbs. Cut meat into slices 1/2 inch thick and spread with 
sausage. Roll up and tie firmly. Salt, pepper, and dredge 
thickly with flour. Put into earthen dish with other ingredi- 
ents. Cover with boiling water and cook 5 hours in fireless 
cooker. 

SCALLOPED MEAT 

Spread in a baking-dish alternate layers of bread crumbs 
or cooked macaroni or spaghetti, meat chopped very fine or 
cut in cubes, a sprinkling of chopped parsley, onion, pepper, 



6o FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

and salt. When the dish is nearly full, pour over enough 
white sauce to moisten it well; cover with buttered crumbs, 
and brown in the oven. Soup stock or tomatoes may also be 
used for moistening a scallop. A scallop made of raw meat, 
tomatoes, and crumbs makes a good luncheon dish. If un- 
cooked meat is used, it will require one hour in a slow oven, 
and more liquid will be needed. 

SHEPHERD'S PIE 

1 onion i pound raw meat or left-over 

2 cups tomato meat cut up small 
1/8 teaspoon pepper 1/2 teaspoon salt 

I tablespoon fat 

Mashed potato for the crust 

Melt the fat, add the sliced onion, and, if raw meat is 
used, add it and stir until the red color disappears. Add the 
tomato and seasoning. If cooked meat is used, add it with 
the tomato and seasoning, after the onion is brown, and 
heat through. Grease a baking-dish, put in a layer of the 
potato, add the meat and gravy, and cover with the potato 
dotted with fat. Bake until the potato is browned. 

RICE MEAT PEE 

Put in baking-dish any left-over meat and gravy. Season 
well with chopped onion, pepper, and salt. 

Boil I cup rice in salted water. When done, strain, mix 
with I tablespoon butter and two eggs, salt and pepper to 
taste. Put all on top of meat and bake i /2 hour. 

CALVES' TONGUES WITH TOMATO SAUCE . 

12 small fresh tongues 
6 fresh tomatoes or i can 
I teaspoon chopped parsley 

I teaspoon celery extract, or tablespoon celery cut fine 
1/4 teaspoon onion juice, salt, pepper, and paprika to taste 



MEAT 6i 

Put tongues in a pan of cold water for 30 minutes; boil 
until the skins crack. This will take from three to four hours. 
Remove the skin without tearing the meat. 

About an hour before serving time, make a sauce by cook- 
ing the tomatoes, onions, parsley, and celery until very 
tender. Strain through a fine sieve or coarse cloth, allowing 
no seeds to pass through. To the liquor add the seasoning, 
and allow all to simmer until it becomes the thickness of 
catsup. Fold in 3 tablespoons of cream whipped, which 
should thicken the sauce. 

M Arrange crisp lettuce leaves on a platter, one for each 
tongue, garnish with sliced lemon and water cress. Serve 
sauce in sauce boat. 

FRESH BEEF'S TONGUE 

Boil the tongue slowly until tender, putting into the water 
part of an onion, I bay leaf, 3 or 4 allspice, and a piece of 
mace. Let it stand in the water to cool. Take out, skin it, 
and stick it full of cloves. Boil it again for a little while until 
it is thoroughly heated through. Put the water in which the 
tongue was boiled into a skillet, thicken with a little flour; 
add salt, pepper, and sugar, and a glass of currant jelly. Let 
it all boil slowly until it is reduced to about a pint. Mean- 
while let the tongue stand on a tin plate on top of the fire 
to keep hot. When the gravy is ready put the tongue in it 
and baste it until it is smoking hot and ready to serve. Put 
the tongue -on the serving-dish, pour the gravy over it and 
decorate with slices of lemon. 

BRAISED LAMBS' HEARTS 

Wipe each heart, cut off extra fat and take out partition 
walls. Stuff, using 1/4 of recipe for Mock Duck, tie up, and 
sear. Make 1/3 cup of brown sauce in dish in which heart 
was seared. Put hearts in double roasting-pan and cook in 
slow oven, 3 to 5 hours. Season sauce with Worcestershire 
or Tomato Sauce and serve. 



62 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

PIGS IN CLOVER 

Cut bacon very thin. 

Cut calves' liver 1/4 inch thick. Drop it into water below 
boiling temperature, and let it remain for a few minutes to 
cook. To each slice of bacon pin a piece of liver of similar 
shape with a toothpick. Cook them in a hot frying-pan until 
light brown. Serve on toast. 

CREAMED CHICKEN WITH MUSHROOMS 

I cup chicken broth 3 cups chopped chicken (cooked) 

1 cup cream i cup canned mushrooms 

2 tablespoons flour i lemon 

1/4 cup butter 2 tablespoons grated cheese 

Melt the butter in a pan. Stir in the flour until smooth. 
Add the broth and the cream. As it thickens add the chicken 
and mushrooms. Season well and allow to cook for 5 min- 
utes. Serve in warm biscuit shells and sprinkle tops with 
cheese and lemon juice. 

TERRAPIN CHICKEN 

I quart cold chicken cut small 4 teaspoons butter 

1 or 2 chicken livers 4 teaspoons cream 
3 hard-boiled eggs i tablespoon salt 

2 yolks of eggs I/3 teaspoon pepper 
I cup chicken stock l teaspx)on lemon 

juice 

Chop the livers and the hard-boiled eggs together and add 
them to the chicken. Sprinkle with the pepper and the salt. 
Put the butter in a frying-pan on the stove. Add flour and 
stir until it becomes brown and frothy. Move the pan to less 
hot a fire and add the chicken stock gradually. Put the pan 
back onto the fire and stir three minutes, then add the cream 
except 4 teaspoonfuls. Stir one minute. Add the chicken 
mixture and cook ten minutes. While it is cooking, beat the 



MEAT 63 

yolks of two eggs and add to them the 4 teaspoonfuls of 
cream. Pour this into the chicken mixture, stir one minute, 
add the lemon juice and serve at once. 

CHICKEN FRICASSEE CREOLE 

Fry chicken lightly, dredging flour into the fat, and brown. 
Add 2 cups of boiling water, i quart of tomatoes, peeled and 
sliced, I small onion sliced, a few sprigs of parsley, and stew 
slowly I 1/2 hours. Serve with rice border. 

A"FRIKA.SIE" 

{Colonial Recipe) Mrs. John Burroughs, 1734 

"Take ye fowls; cut them in pieces, and clean them. Sea- 
son with pepper and salt, a little mace, nutmeg, cloves, some 
parsley, a little bit of onion. Let them lay 2 hours, then 
flowr them well, fry in sweet butter, and make ye butter 
hott before you put them in. Fry a fine brown. Wash ye 
pan, and put them in again with a pint of gravy. Lett them 
swimyer in ye gravy. Take the yolks of 3 eggs with a little 
grated nutmeg, a little juce of lemon and 2 spoonsful of 
wine. Shake it over the fire til it is as thick as cream, pour 
over ye frikasie, and so serve it to ye table hot." 

SMOTHERED CHICKEN 

Put 1/2 cup beef-dripping or bacon fat and I small cup 
of stock in the bottom of a pan. Split the chickens, dredge 
with flour all over, season with pepper and salt, putting the 
chickens breast down, and putting the giblets under them. 
Allow 15 minutes to the pound. When done, take out the 
chickens, mash the giblets, adding a cup of rich milk to the 
juice to make the gravy. 

FRICASSEED RABBIT 

Skin and cut in pieces and lay in cold water a few minutes. 
Drain, and put in a saucepan, with pepper and a little pork 



64 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

cut in strips. Cover with water and simmer 1/2 hour. Then 
add a small chopped onion, i tablespoon chopped parsley, 
I blade of mace, and a little clove. Mix to a smooth paste 
I tablespoon of flour, stir it in and let the rabbit simmer 
until it is tender. Then sti|>in 1/2 cup rich cream. Boil up 
and serve 





SOUFFLE 




Chicken 




Veal 


Make white sauce of 




2 cups 


milk or stock 


2 cups 


2 tablespoons 


butter^ 


3 tablespoons 


2 tablespoons 


flour 


6 tablespoons 


. I teaspoon 


salt 


I teaspoon 


1/8 teaspoon 


pepper 


1/8 teaspoon 


Add just as you 


take from the fire: 




3 


egg-yolks 


3 or 4" 


- 2 cups 


chopped meat 


2 cups 


1/2 cup 


soft crumbs 




I tablespoon 


parsley 


2 tablespoons 




lemon juice 


2 teaspoons 




onion juice 


8 drops 


Spread on bottom of dish to cool. Cut and fold into the 


mixture 








egg-whites, stiff 


3 or 4 



Turn into a buttered baker and put into a slow, increasing 
oven about 30 minutes or until well browned over. 

Serve at once, with white mushroom sauce for the chicken 
and brown tomato sauce for the veal. 

Cheese Souffle may be made, using grated cheese in- 
stead of meat and few, if any, of the extra flavors. It may be 
served with white sauce or alone. 



MEAT . 65 

CROQUETTES 

2 cups cold fowl or veal cut fine 4 drops onion 

1/2 teaspoon salt i teaspoon parsley 

Cayenne I/2 teaspoon celery salt 

I teaspoon lemon juice for veal 

Mix meat and seasoning, add as much white sauce as you 
can to be able to handle the mixture and yet have a soft 
creamy croquette when served. For this amount make i cup 
white sauce, using but 4 tablespoons butter and 6 table- 
spoons flour to the pint. 

Chill the mixture, shape quickly, crumb, egg, and crumb. 
Fry but six at once, as more cool the fat too much. 

CHICKEN CHARTREUSE 

A: I cup cooked chicken, minced fine 

B: I teaspoon chopped parsley, 1/2 teaspoon onion juice, 
1/4 teaspoon salt. 

2 tablespoons tomato juice, i beaten egg, dash of 
pepper 

Mix A with B. Line a buttered dish i inch thick with 
boiled rice. Fill center with chicken mixture, cover top with 
rice. Cover and steam 45 minutes. Serve with tomato sauce 
poured around it. 

CREOLE SAUCE 

To be served with steaks or chicken 

2 onions 2 tablespoons of butter 

1/2 pound ham 12 tomatoes 

2 garlic cloves Salt, pepper, and paprika 

to taste 

Melt the butter. Chop the onions and garlic cloves and 
brown in the butter. Add the tomatoes that have been 



66 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

peeled, also the ham that has been cut in dice. Season highly. 
Cook for an hour, strain and heat. 

The sauce may be thickened with a teaspoon of arrow- 
root. 

CURRY SAUCE 
{East Indian Dish) 

I tablespoon butter i tablespoon Chutney sauce 

I onion, cut fine I cup stock 

I tablespoon curry powder 

Brown butter; add onion and Chutney sauce; cook thor- 
oughly before adding stock and curry, as well as afterward. 
In the curry sauce heat up cooked eggs or meat cut in small 
pieces. Serve with cooked rice. 

CAPER SAUCE 

1/3 cup butter 1/2 teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons flour 1/8 teaspoon pepper 
I 1/2 cup hot water 

Melt one half the butter, add flour with seasonings, and 
pour hot water on gradually. Boil 5 minutes, and add re- 
maining butter in small pieces. Add one half cup capers 
drained from their liquor. 

DRESSING FOR TURKEY 

8 parts of bread crumbs I part of citron 

I part of raisins Butter 

I part of currants Salt 

DRESSING FOR WILD GAME 

Fill with sour apples cut in quarters. 
Remove these apples when game is cooked, and fill with 
fresh fruit, oranges, and apples. 



MEAT 67 

SWEETBREADS, BRAINS, OR ROE 

Sweetbreads and brains 

Wash and soak in cold water i hour. Simmer in salted, 
acidulated water 20 minutes (i quart water, i teaspoon salt, 
I tablespoon vinegar). 

To water for brains may be added : ' 

1 slice onion I bay leaf 

2 peppercorns i sprig of thyme (i teaspoon) 

Put into cold water; let stand until cool. Free it from 
membrane, etc. 

Shad or other roe 
Wash in cold water. Be careful not to break membrane 
that encloses eggs. If broken wrap in cheesecloth before 
cooking. 

Simmer in salted, acidulated water 20 minutes. 
To water may be added : 

I slice onion I bay leaf 

Each may be diced and served in a chafing-dish. 

(2 cups diced material to i to i 1/2 cups sauce) 
Creamed 

First marinate material i hour or longer in lemon juice, 
onion juice, salt and pepper 
A la Pouleite. 

With Bechamel sauce made of equal parts cream and 
seasoned stock. 
A la Newburg 

Sauce made of 3 yolks of eggs, 1/3 teaspoon salt, cay- 
enne, 3/4 cup sherry, and i cup cream. 
Deviled (especially brains) 

Marinate 3 brains with 3 teaspoons lemon juice. 
Make sauce of 2 tablespoons butter, 2 tablespoons 
flour, 1/2 teaspoon salt, 3/4 cup milk and water from 
cooking brains, add i teaspoon lemon juice, i beaten egg, 



68 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

and brains cut up; stir lightly to heat brains, serve on 
saltines. 
Scrambled (especially brains) 

Beat 4 eggs, add 2/3 teaspoon salt, pepper, 1/2 cup 
milk, and brains (one or two). Put into blazer 2 table- 
spoons butter and add mixture, stir constantly until jelly- 
like. Serve at once on toast or crackers. 

Omelet 

2 brains or i pair roe or sweetbreads 
6 eggs, 1/3 teaspoon salt and pepper 

Add material and seasoning to beaten yolks, cut and 
fold into beaten whites, put into buttered pan. When 
brown underneath put in oven to set on top, spread with 
currant jelly; fold and serve at once. 
Broiled (especially shad roe) 

Marinate in equal parts oil and lemon juice and salt 
I hour before cooking. Broil 10 minutes, baste with butter, 
serve with maitre d'hotel butter; garnish with lemon points. 

Salad 

Marinate i hour in French dressing and onion juice ; drain 
from marinade; add an equal amount of cucumbers cut in 
cubes and mayonnaise to moisten ; serve on lettuce leaves. 
En casserole Maryland style (especially roe) 

Place 2 or 3 shad roe in buttered casserole; sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, half cover with broth, add 2 table- 
spoons butter in bits. Cover dish and cook in oven 15 
minutes. Keep roe hot while broth is removed to another 
dish and reduced to i cup or less. 

Beat 3 yolks of egg 

Add I cup thin cream 

Stir slowly into hot sauce; cook over hot water until 
slightly thick. Add 2 tablespoons butter ; salt and pepper 
if required, and pour over roe. Garnish with thin slices of 
bacon and serve. 



CHAPTER VI 

FISH 

Of all the foods that can be served in place of meat, 
fish is the one most commonly used. It is more eco- 
nomical for the nation at large to use fish as a food 
than to use meat, because the food used by the fish is 
not available for man, whereas the grain fed to ani- 
mals might be directly used for human food. The 
United States is far behind European countries in the 
consumption of fish. Here the average amount used is 
only eighteen pounds per person per year, whereas the 
British use fifty-eight pounds and the peoples on the 
Continent use a hundred pounds. There is plenty 
available in the United States if only housekeepers 
would make use of the information concerning new 
varieties spread by the Bureau of Fisheries and by the 
different State colleges. 

Fish contains practically the same amount of protein 
material that is found in meat with about the same 
amount of phosphorus, twice as much calcium, and a 
third as much iron. It is as easily digested as meat, and 
has the advantage over meat of being free from the 
extractives which make red meats stimulating to the 
nerves. 

The actual value of fish as a source of energy de- 
pends upon the quantity of fat which it contains. This 
is a means of classifying fish. We have two _ - - , 

large groups, the first of which is the shell- 
fish comprising molluscs, — such as oysters and clams, 



70 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

— and crustaceans — lobsters, crabs, and shrimps. The 
members of this entire group are not considered when 
we speak of fish as a meat substitute because they 
fall into the class of food luxuries, since their value 
as food is not proportionate to their cost. The waste 
is great. For instance, in buying lobster at forty cents 
a pound, as it is usual to get only half a pound of 
meat from a pound of lobster, we are actually paying 
at the rate of eighty cents a pound for what we eat. 
The second group of fish is the vertebrate; that is, 
those fish having a bony structure. Here again we have 
two subdivisions: the first is composed of all of the 
white fish — cod, haddock, halibut, trout, flounder, 
smelt, and so forth. These have no fat in their flesh, as 
it is entirely contained in the liver. The other subdivi- 
sion is made up of those fish that have fat in the flesh, 
such as mackerel, salmon, shad, swordfish, and eels. 
As a source of energy, in consequence, the fish of this 
second group are equal to an equal weight of meat, 
whereas those of the first group are slightly inferior. 

It is never wise to order fish over the telephone, for 
fish must be fresh in order to be good, and it is hardly 
possible to know what fish is the freshest 
"^ on the market that morning unless we see 

for ourselves. If we ask for a special kind of fish, the 
fish dealer would undoubtedly have it, but would take 
it from his cold-storage room when a fresh shipment of 
another kind might have just come in. It is possible to 
tell whether a fish is fresh by its appearance. The flesh 
should be firm and not easily dented by the finger, the 
eyes should be full and bright, the fins should be stiff 
and not flabby. Halibut is opalescent when fresh, and 
dull and opaque when old. 



FISH 71 

PRESERVING OF FISH 

Because fish deteriorates rapidly on account of the 
soft character of its flesh, there are several ways of 
preserving it. The first of these is by cold 
storage. Fish may be frozen solidly either 
by the separate piece as is done for large fish, or in a 
mass when the fish are small. They are then kept in cold 
storage for a long time. It has been proven that a fish 
fro2:en for two years has not undergone £iny chemical 
changes. Pains must be taken, however, when buying 
frozen fish, to have it delivered still frozen, as all fro- 
zen flesh deteriorates more rapidly after thawing than 
when fresh. 

Another method of preserving fish is by salting and 
drying. This is one of New England's great industries, 
and the salt codfish from Gloucester is „ . . 
well known all over the country. The cod 
are brought in by the fishing boats in hogsheads of 
brine. They are carefully cleaned and spread on racks 
in the sun to dry. The length of time for drying and 
the manner of cutting the fish depend upon the prod- 
uct desired. The fish that is sold in bulk is allowed to 
become thoroughly dry, whereas the fish packed in 
boxes is sometimes quite moist. Finnan haddie is a 
haddock salted and smoked to preserve it. 

Another means of preserving fish is by canning. This 
is done in two ways. An example of the first method is 
the great salmon industry of our North- 
western States, where the salmon are 
caught in great quantities, cleaned and cut in suitable 
sizes, packed according to grade, and sterilized in the 
cans. The label on the can tells specifically what is in- 



72 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

side. The other manner of canning is used in the sar- 
dine industry, where the small fish are pickled, steamed, 
and packed in oil in the cans, the oil acting as a pre- 
servative. The oil used for this purpose in France has 
been olive oil, but other kinds of vegetable oils are now 
used almost exclusively because of the expense. 

CARE OF FISH 

When fish comes from the market, it should be re- 
moved from the paper in which it is wrapped and 
placed on a plate before it is put into the refrigerator. 
If it is left in the paper, the juices are absorbed by the 
paper. Before it is used, care should be taken to see 
that all the scales are removed. These can be scraped 
off with the back of a knife beginning at the tail. The 
fish should also be carefully washed by wiping it with a 
clean piece of cheesecloth wrung out from slightly salted 
water. The fish should not be allowed to stand in water. 

Like all protein food, fish becomes tough and leath- 
ery if it is subjected to high temperature in cooking. If 
it is boiled, the water must be boiling vigorously before 
the piece of fish is dropped in. This sears the outside of 
the fish and helps to prevent the loss of juices. A table- 
spoon of vinegar or lemon juice added to the water will 
also help in the searing process. Boiling at best is a 
wasteful way of cooking fish, as much of the juices of 
the fish are lost in the water. It should be used only 
when the piece of fish to be cooked is a compact one 
like a solid chunk of salmon or halibut. If the fish is 
baked, the oven should not be hot enough to dry out 
the fish. White fish that are lacking in fat, such as cod 
and haddock, are improved on baking by the addition 
of salt pork. 



FISH 73 

If the fish is split, or is a small one, broiling is an 
economical way of cooking it. 

FISH RECIPES 

BAKED FISH 

(For 4-pound fish) 

I cup cracker crumbs or i teaspoon chopped parsley 

bread crumbs i teaspoon capers 

I saltspoon salt i teaspoon pickles 

I saltspoon pepper 1/4 cup butter (melted) 

I teaspoon chopped onions 

Clean the fish and wipe thoroughly, outside and in, with 
cloth wrung out of cold water. Make a stuffing of above 
ingredients. Put the stuffing in the cavity and sew up the 
opening. Rub the fish thoroughly with salt and pepper and 
butter on both sides. Cut gashes across the sides of the fish 
about 2 inches apart ; in these put tiny strips of fat salt pork. 
Skewer the fish in the shape of the letter S, and dredge thor- 
oughly with flour. Put on cheesecloth in baking-pan with 
pieces of pork placed over back and sides and bake about 
15 minutes to the pound of fish, basting frequently with the 
melted pork. (Butter cheesecloth, or bottom of pan where 
double-roaster is used. Put bread crusts between fish and 
sides of pan to prevent sticking.) When nicely browned, 
serve on platter with garnitures of parsley and slices of 
lemon and hard-boiled egg. 

BAKED HALIBUT WITH TOMATO SAUCE 

2 pounds halibut 1/2 tablespoon sugar 

2 cups tomatoes 3 tablespoons butter 
I cup water 3 tablespoons flour 

I slice onion 3/4 teaspoon salt 

3 cloves 1/8 teaspoon pepper 

Cook tomatoes, water, onion, cloves, and sugar 20 min- 
utes. Melt butter, add flour, and stir into hot mixture. Add 



74 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

salt and pepper, cook lo minutes, and strain. Clean fish, 
wipe, put into baking-pan, pour around half the sauce, and 
bake 35 minutes, basting often. Remove to hot platter, pour 
around remaining sauce, and garnish with parsley. 

HADDOCK BAKED IN CHEESE SAUCE 

I tablespoon butter or other fat I /2 teaspoon mustard 

I tablespoon flour 1/8 teaspoon pepper 
I cup milk I cup grated cheese 

I teaspoon salt 

Melt the butter; add the flour and seasonings; stir to a 
smooth paste. Add gradually the milk, then the cheese. 
Cook until smooth. Pour sauce over 3 pounds of haddock, 
boned and cut in fillets and placed in a baking-dish. Bake 
3/4 hour. Boned haddock is called scrod. 

TO COOK SCROD 

Soak 1/2 hour in a pickle of 2 tablespoons each of salt 
and sugar. Place in pan i cup of milk and cover with dots of 
butter and i small onion chopped fine. Bake about 25 min- 
utes. Baste frequently. 

FILLETS OF FISH, STUFFED WITH OYSTERS 

3 or 4 pounds fresh cod 
I pint oysters 

I cup bread crumbs mixed with 
1/3 cup melted butter 
I egg, beaten 
Lemon juice, salt, and pepper 

Remove head and skin from the fish; free the flesh from 
the bones. Season fillets thus produced with salt and pepper, 
and brush with lemon juice. Lay one of the seasoned fillets 
on a well-greased fish-sheet. Cover with oysters dipped in 
the buttered crumbs one by one. Lay the other fillet over 



FISH 75 

these, brush with the beaten egg diluted with a little milk, 
cover thickly with buttered crumbs, and bake about I hour 
in a moderate oven. Serve with HoUandaise sauce. 

HADDOCK A LA NEWTON 

I haddock 

I tablespoon flour 

I tablespoon potato flour 

1/2 cup butter or other fat 

Milk or cream enough to form a mold 

Take the haddock from the bone and grind fine (not 
cooked). Mix the fish with the cream or milk, a pinch of salt, 
and a little mace. Add egg well beaten. Mix well together 
with a potato masher. Place in a tin baking-pan or mold, 
and bake i hour with the pan containing the mixture stand- 
ing in a pan of water. Ser\'e with white sauce. 

MOLDED HALIBUT 

I pound halibut, uncooked 

I pint stale bread crumbs (pulled from center of loaf) 
I cup cream 
I teaspoon salt 
1/4 teaspoon celery salt 
Whites of 4 eggs 

Chop the fish very fine. Cook the bread crumbs with the 
cream to a smooth paste. Add this to the fish with the sea- 
sonings. Beat the whites of the eggs until stiff and fold into 
the fish mixture. Bake in a tin mold well greased. Place this 
in a pan of water and bake until firm — about 1/2 or 3/4 
hour. 

Sauce 

Blanch 1/4 pound almonds, cut fine, and brown in 2 
tablespoons of butter. Add 2 tablespoons of flour, pepper 



76 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

and salt, and pour i pint of cream in gradually. Stir until 
thick and smooth. 

KEDGEREE 

{East Indian dish) 

I cup cooked and flaked fish 2 teaspoons lemon juice 

I cup cooked rice i egg, or none 

I teaspoon salt i tablespoon melted butter 

I/16 teaspoon pepper i tablespoon minced parsley 

Mix ingredients, pack into a buttered bowl, and surround 
with hot water. Poach until heated through. Unmold, gar- 
nish with parsley, and serve. 

SALMON TIMBALE OR LOAF 

Individual recipe Large recipe 

I tablespoon salmon, flaked I cup 

I tablespoon crumbs i cup 

1/4 teaspoon parsley, minced i rounding tablespoon 

Salt 1/2 teaspoon 

Pepper 1/16 teaspoon 

1 teaspoon beaten egg, or none 2 eggs 

1/4 teaspoon lemon juice i tablespoon 

2 teaspoons milk 1/4 to 1/2 cup 

Mix thoroughly, adding milk enough to moisten. Put into 
buttered timbale molds or one bowl ; set dishes in hot water 
in a moderate oven, or on back of stove, until food is heated 
through. Turn out and serve with white sauce to which 
minced parsley is added at last. Other fish may be used 
instead of salmon. 

SCALLOPED FISH 
I cup flaked fish 1/4 teaspoon salt 

I cup stale bread crumbs 1/16 teaspoon pepper 
I cup milk I to 2 tablespoons butter 

Mix, put in buttered dish, cover with buttered crumbs, 
and bake in a moderate oven 30 to 40 minutes. 



FISH 77 

SHRIMP WIGGLE 

I cup boiled rice l teaspoon onion juice 

1 cup cream Paprika to taste 

2 tablespoons tomato catsup i can shrimps 
1/2 teaspoon salt 

Heat the rice in the cream until it becomes smooth, add- 
ing more cream if necessary. Add flavorings. Stir in the 
shrimps. 

Cut-up lobster, cold salmon, chicken, or ham may be used 
in place of the shrimps. 

FISH CHOWDER 

Home recipe Individiml 

2 pounds haddock or cod 1/4 pound 
Slice pork i inch 

1/2 onion Slice 

4 potatoes 1/2 potato 

3 pints cold water 1/2 cup 
I pint hot milk 1/2 cup 

6 crackers i cracker 

I 1/2 teaspoons salt I/4 teaspoon 

Pepper to taste To taste 

Have head, skin, and bones removed from fish at market, 
and take home with fish. Cut fish in I -inch pieces. Put head, 
skin, and bones in kettle with cold water, allow them to come 
slowly to boiling point and then simmer for one half hour. 
Strain this water and return it to kettle, throwing away 
head, bones, and skin. Cut pork in small pieces, put in frying- 
pan and fry until brown with onion cut small. Strain fat 
into kettle, add potatoes which have been pared, washed, and 
cut in 1/4-inch slices. Cook until potatoes are nearly soft. 
Add fish. Do not break fish by stirring. Add hot milk, salt, 
and pepper. Put crackers in a soup-dish and soften with a 
little cold milk before pouring on hot chowder. Serve at once. 



78 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

SALT CODFISH HASH 

Home recipe Individual 

1 cup codfish 1/4 cup 

2 cups potato cubes 1/2 cup 

I egg I teaspoon 

I to 2 tablespoons butter 3/4 to i teaspoon 

Salt and pepper to taste To taste 

Cook fish and potatoes together until potatoes are tender. 
Drain thoroughly. Mash. Add butter, salt, and egg well 
beaten. Beat mixture 3 minutes with a fork. Try out i table- 
spoon salt pork cubes. Heat iron frying-pan, add i teaspoon 
salt pork fat. Pour in the hash, spread evenly, and cook 
slowly until a golden brown underneath, replenishing with 
more fat as needed. Fold like an omelet and pour tomato 
sauce around it. If moister hash is desired, more butter or 
1/4 cup milk or cream may be added. 

If codfish is too salty it should be washed and soaked 
before using. 

Tomato Sauce 

2 tablespoons butter or other fat Pepper 
2 tablespoons flour i cup stewed and 

1/2 teaspoon salt strained tomato 

Melt the fat in a saucepan. Stir the flour into it until it is 
smooth. Add the tomato, stirring constantly until it boils 
vigorously. 

POTATO SHREDDED FISH SOUFFLE 

1 box "shredded fish" 3 cups mashed potato 

2 eggs Pepper 
Salt 

Put hot boiled potatoes through potato "ricer " ; add butter 
and boiling milk and salt; beat until very light and creamy 
and soft; add eggs, beaten, and fish which has been soaked 
in cold water and squeezed dry, salt and pepper to taste. 



FISH 79 

Put in baking-dish with butter on top and bake about 20 
minutes, until light brown. Serve at once. 

CODFISH BALLS 

1 cup salt codfish i /2 tablespoon butter 

2 heaping cups potatoes i/8 teaspoon pepper 
I egg 

Wash fish in cold water, and pick in very small pieces. 
Wash, pare, and soak potatoes, cutting in pieces of uniform 
size before measuring. Cook fish and potatoes in boiling 
water to cover until potatoes are soft. Drain through strainer, 
return to kettle in which they were cooked, mash thoroughly; 
add butter, egg well beaten, and salt, if necessary. Beat with 
fork two minutes. Take up by spoonfuls, put in frying 
basket, and fry one minute in deep fat, allowing six fish balls 
for each frying ; drain on brown paper. Reheat the fat after 
last frying. If preferred the fish may be formed into cro- 
quettes. 

FISH A LA CR]§;ME 

I 3/4 cups cold flaked fish 1/2 slice onion 

I cup white sauce Salt and pepper 

Bit of bay leaf 1/2 cup buttered cracker crumbs 

Scald milk for making of white sauce, with bay leaf, pars- 
ley, and onion. Cover the bottom of small buttered platter 
with one half of the fish, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and 
pour over one half the sauce; repeat. Cover with crumbs, 
and bake in hot oven until crumbs are brown. If preferred, 
bake in scallop shells. 

SCOTTISH FINNAN HADDIE 

2 pounds finnan haddie i tablespoon flour 

I tablespoon butter i /2 cup cold water 

I pint hot milk 2 hard-boiled eggs, chopped 

Paprika, salt, and 1/4 pound cheese, chopped or 

pepper to taste grated 
I egg 



8o FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

Select a good finnan haddie. Cut it into small pieces and 
put it in a small saucepan, covering with cold water. Place 
it on the stove and let it come slowly to the boiling point. 
Just as it begins to boil remove from the fire and let stand 
in the water until it is almost cold. 

Drain off the water, separate the fish into small bits, and 
place in a frying-pan containing the butter melted. Fry or 
saut6 for four or five minutes; then add the hot milk, season, 
and let cook for five minutes longer. 

Blend thoroughly the raw egg, flour, and cold water in a 
small bowl. Stir this mixture into the frying-pan with the 
finnan haddie and cook slowly until thickened. Just before 
removing from the stove add the hard-boiled eggs and 
cheese. Cover slices of toasted bread with the mixture and 
serve with a salad. 

SAVORY FINNAN HADDIE 

1 cup finnan haddie, flaked I cup rich milk 
I 1/2 cups small potato balls 2 egg yolks 

2-inch cube fat salt pork Salt and pepper to 

2 tablespoons flour taste 

Soak a finnan haddie in milk i hour, then cook until ten- 
der, and separate into flakes. Cut the salt pork into tiny dice 
and try out. To 2 tablespoons of the fat add the flour and 
milk. When thick and smooth, season to taste, add the pork 
scraps, egg yolks, finnan haddie flakes, and potato balls 
which have been cooked until soft. 

FINNAN HADDIE 

2 cups finnan haddie, flaked i teaspoon salt 

I /4 cup butter i /3 teaspoon paprika 

I tablespoon onion I/3 cup canned pimentos 
I /4 cup flour Cooked macaroni 

I 1/2 cups milk Grated cheese 



FISK 8l 

Soak a finnan haddie In equal parts of milk and water for 
I hour (enough to cover). Drain, rinse thoroughly, and sepa- 
rate into flakes to make 2 cups. Cook butter and onion for 
5 minutes, stirring constantly; add flour, milk, and season- 
ings. When mixture thickens add flaked fish and pimentos 
cut in strips. Cover a shallow baking-dish or platter with 
cooked macaroni. Pour the fish over it, sprinkle with grated 
cheese, and brown in oven 15 minutes. Place it under the 
gas flame if it is not brown enough. 

CLAM BROTH 

Use 12 large hard-shelled clams for i pint of broth. Boil 
the clams and juice for 20 minutes; strain and let stand to 
settle; strain again carefully into a saucepan, and let broth 
boil up once. Season with butter and pepper — no salt — 
and serve in cups with whipped cream on top. 

To open the clams and obtain the juice, place the clams, 
after they have been carefully washed with a brush and 
clear water, in a saucepan and let them steam until the 
shells open ; then strain off the liquor. 

CLAM CHOWDER 

I quart clams i tablespoon salt 

4 cups potatoes cut in 3/4 inch 1/8 teaspoon pepper 
diameter 4 tablespoons butter 

I 1/2 -inch cube fat salt pork 4 cups scalded milk 

I sliced onion 8 common crackers 

Clean and pick over clams, using i cup cold water; drain, 
reserve liquor, heat to boiling point and strain. Chop fine 
hard part of clams, cut pork in small pieces and try out; 
add onion, fry 6 minutes and strain into a stewpan. Parboil 
potatoes 5 minutes in boiling water to cover; drain and put 
a layer in bottom of stewpan, add chopped clams, sprinkle 
with salt and pepper, and dredge generously with flour. Add 
remaining potatoes, again sprinkle with salt and pepper. 



82 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER ^ 

dredge with flour, and add 21/2 cups boiling water. Cook 
10 minutes, add milk, soft part of clams and butter; boil 3 
minutes; and add crackers split and soaked in enough milk 
to moisten. Reheat clam water to boiling point, and thicken 
with I tablespoon butter and flour cooked together. Add to 
chowder just before serving. 

The clam water has a tendency to cause the milk to sepa- 
rate, hence is added at the last. 

OYSTERS — FANCY ROAST 

Clean i pint oysters and drain from their liquor. Put in 
a blazer and plump. Shake pan or stir with fork. Add salt, 
pepper, and 2 tablespoons butter; pour over 4 or 6 small 
slices of toast ; garnish with parsley. 

PANNED OYSTERS 

With fork pressed into a butter ball rub over the bottom 
of hot blazer. Cover surface of pan with rounds of toast, and 
put one or two uncooked oysters on each round. Cover and 
cook till plump; on each oyster put salt, pepper, and a bit of 
butter. When butter has melted serve with slices of lemon. 

OYSTER CANAPES 

Scald a cup of cream, add 2 tablespoons of fine bread 
crumbs, i tablespoon butter, a dash of paprika, and grating 
of nutmeg. Then add 2 dozen oysters washed, drained, and 
chopped. Stir until oysters are thoroughly heated, but do not 
let mixture boil. Spread rounds of toast with butter, then 
with the oyster mixture. Serve at once with olives, pimolas, 
or gherkins. 

FRIED OYSTERS 

Clean, and dry between towels, selected oysters. Season 
with salt and pepper; roll in stale bread crumbs or cracker 
crumbs, then in egg beaten slightly and diluted with a little 



FISH 83 

cold water; then again in crumbs, and fry in deep fat. Drain 
on brown paper and serve on a folded napkin. Garnish with 
parsley and serve with or without sauce tyrolienne. 

SAUTED OYSTERS 

Clean i pint oysters ; dry between towels, and sprinkle on 
both sides with salt and pepper. Take up by the tough 
muscle with plated fork and dip in bread or cracker crumbs, 
or prepare as in fried oysters. Put 2 tablespoons butter in 
hot frying-pan; add oysters; brown on one side; then turn 
and brown on the other. Serve on a folded napkin. 

JELLIED OYSTERS 

Drain all the liquor from medium-sized oysters, and to it 
add lemon, tarragon, paprika, whole cloves, and sticks of 
mace. Heat and pour it over just enough gelatine to make it 
firm. Put a layer of this liquor in a large square mold, and 
as it hardens add a layer of oysters arranged symmetrically, 
and pour over more of the liquor. As this hardens, put the 
next layer of oysters directly over the first. Chill, cut in 
squares like boxes, and serve on paper doilies, garnished with 
parsley. 

SCALLOPS (No. 1) 

Dry the scallops. Roll them in crumbs and then beaten 
egg, then in crumbs again. Put a few in the frying-basket. 
Fry in deep fat. Mix salt and pepper with the crumbs. 

SCALLOPS (No. 2) 

Cover the scallops with boiling water. Let stand 3 minutes. 
Drain, and dry with a towel. Season with salt and pepper. 
Dip them in beaten egg, then in crumbs. Fry in deep fat. 

STEWED SCALLOPS 

Wash the scallops in cold water; then drain them. Put one 
pint of milk on to boil. Put 2 tablespoons butter in a pan 



84 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER ' 

over the fire. When melted add 2 tablespoons flour and 
stir till smooth. Add this to the hot milk, stirring (xin- 
stantly. When boiling add the scallops. Cook 3 minutes. 
Add salt and pepper. 

FRIED SMELTS 

Smelts, after being washed, dried, and sprinkled with 
salt and pepper, are dipped into milk, then rolled in flour. 
The head and tail are pinned together with a small skewer, 
or wooden toothpick (to be removed after they are fried), 
making them into rings. This is a pretty way for serving the 
smelts, either by themselves or for garnishing other fish 
dishes. Cook only as many as will cover the bottom of the 
frying-basket at one time. Dress the smelts on a folded nap- 
kin, and serve with mayonnaise or with tartare sauce, 

BAKED SMELTS 

Clean and wash the smelts. Wipe them dry, sprinkle with 
salt and pepper. Dip in melted butter and bread crumbs. 
Arrange them on a buttered baking-pan, and bake 15 min- 
utes in a quick oven. Serve with Beamaise sauce. 

WHITEBAIT 

Wash the whitebait and dry thoroughly with a towel. 
Roll them in flour. Having quite a thick coating, toss them 
in a sieve to shake off the loose flour. Cover the bottom of the 
wire frying-basket with the fish. Put immediately into the 
hot fat. Remove when a golden brown. Turn them on a 
paper, and sprinkle with salt. 



CHAPTER VII 

OTHER MEAT SUBSTITUTES: CHEESE AND 
LEGUMES 

The foods already spoken of which can be used in 
place of meat, milk and fish, both belong to the same 
group of foods as meat itself. The others — those to be 
discussed in this chapter — are connecting links be- 
tween the protein group of foods and the other groups. 
Cheese with its large fat content might readily be 
called a fat food as well as a protein one, and the leg- 
umes or pulses (which are the dried peas, beans, and 
lentils) have a high percentage of starch, and could be- 
long either to the foods characterized by their starch 
content or be considered with other vegetables. 

CHEESE 

Cheese may well be used as a chief source of nitrog- 
enous food, since it contains the valuable protein peut 
of milk together with its mineral salts. It _. . , 
contains three fourths of the total solids 
in milk, which gives it nearly twice as much protein 
as an equal weight of beef of the average composition 
as purchased. With its 33 per cent of fat, the fuel 
value is more than twice as great. The composition of 
cheese is easily remembered because it is divided in 
a general way between protein, fat, and water, about 
33 per cent of each. There are other reasons for its im- 
portance in the diet ; it can be kept and handled with 
great ease in the home, it has an appetizing flavor, and 
it can be served in a great variety of ways. 



86 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

Three fourths of the amount of cheese produced in 
the United States is standard factory or American 
cheese, usually made from whole cow's 
milk. The protein or casein of the milk is 
thrown out by the action of rennet forming a curd. It 
carries most of the fat of the milk with it. This curd is 
broken by knives and then heated to differing degrees. 
The whey is drained off; the curd salted and pressed. 
The curd is then kept for several weeks in a cool place 
to ripen, or to develop the flavors by means of the ac- 
tion of bacteria or molds. This ripening process is the 
chief cause of the flavors of different cheeses, although 
of course the variety of flavor also depends somewhat 
on the type of milk used. The soft cream cheeses con- 
tain more water than an ordinary factory cheese, since 
they are not drained under pressure, nor are they al- 
lowed to ripen so long. They are usually made from 
rich cream by souring or by the action of rennet, and 
after the whey is drained off the curd is salted, turned 
occasionally, and is ready for market in five or six days. 
Some cheeses, such as Roquefort and Gorgonzola, 
are ripened by molds growing throughout the cheese. 
. The tale is told of the origin of the Roque- 

fort cheese that a goatherd one day was 
interrupted while eating his lunch of bread and cheese, 
and being a thrifty lad, put what was left on a ledge in 
a near-by cave. He forgot about it, but when in that 
neighborhood again some time later, he looked to see 
if it was still there. To his surprise he found that in 
place of the ordinary farm cheese which he had left, he 
had a most delicious cheese streaked with green mold. 
He took it back to the village and showed it with pride 
to his mother and the other village women. For years 



OTHER MEAT SUBSTITUTES 87 

after, the villagers put their cheese to ripen on the 
ledges in that cave and in the neighboring ones. They 
found, however, that they must also place bread with 
the cheese in order to get the characteristic mold. 
Nowadays, however, since the scientists have isolated 
the various molds and bacteria for us, Roquefort 
cheese, as well as Swiss and Dutch and other varieties, 
can all be turned out from the same American factory. 

The Dutch women are very careful that no molds 
shall be allowed to grow on their cheese, since they de- 
pend entirely upon the bacteria present in the milk to 
produce the proper flavor in the ripening process. They 
carefully dust their cheeses every day while ripening 
and when they are ready for market, they paint them 
red or give them a coat of varnish to prevent any 
molds from spoiling the flavor. 

A cheese like Camembert is ripened by bacterial ac- 
tion on the outside which gradually works in, softening 
the cheese. 

Other hard cheeses, such as Swiss, Parmesan, and 
English dairy cheeses, are ripened by bacteria and en- 
2:ymes, or unorganized ferments, working on the in- 
side. All these changes increase the solubility of the 
proteins and produce the peculiar flavor of each cheese. 

When we speak of cheese as a meat substitute, we 
refer only to that mild-flavored cheese known as the 
American factory cheese which can be used in large 
quantities. The other cheeses, which are used in small 
quantity primarily for their flavor, belong to the class 
of luxuries that fall "in the region of choice." They are 
the ones that are referred to in the cynical remark that 
"cheese digests everything but itself," since their 
strong flavor is an aid to digestion. 



88 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

Ordinary cheese compares favorably with other 
foods in the thoroughness with which it is digested in 
. the body; for over ninety per cent of its 

nutrients are available. It is slow of diges- 
tion, however, because of the intimate combination of 
fat and protein material. The burning sensation some- 
times felt after eating cheese is due to the presence of 
free fatty acids in the cheese, that are caused by over- 
cooking which decomposes the fat. Another reason 
why cheese may cause uncomfortable sensations is due 
to the way in which it is used. A Welsh rarebit eaten 
late in the evening after three good meals have already 
been consumed may cause a restless night, but the 
cheese should not be blamed for the nightmare, since 
the body has already had all the food required for the 
twenty-four hours and objects to the added burden 
placed upon it at that hour. 

American cheeses are usually shipped in cakes 
of twenty-six or thirty-two pounds apiece, and are 
Care in the wrapped in heavy canvas. When cut and 
home delivered at the house, care should be 

taken that cheese does not dry and that it does not be- 
come moldy. It should be wrapped in a slightly damp 
cloth and kept in a cool place. Air should never be 
wholly excluded from it, since molds grow more read- 
ily in the absence of air. 

When planning a meal in which cheese is to take the 
place of meat, great care should be taken with the 
Use in the foods used in combination with it. It is 
<^*6* not well to substitute cheese for the meat 

and leave the rest of the meal the same. The reason for 
this is that cheese is a more concentrated food than 
meat, containing a larger proportion of fat and protein 



OTHER MEAT SUBSTITUTES 89 

and much less water. It must be used along with 
watery foods like fruits and vegetables. As it is also 
entirely lacking in any form of carbohydrate, it is well 
combined with starchy dishes, bread, rice, or macaroni. 
All cheese dishes are apt to be soft in consistency, so that 
in order to get variety and increase the palatability of 
the meal, it is well to include in the menu hard foods, 
such as toast, crisp buns, or hard cookies. A cheese 
souffle might be accompanied by a baked potato, crisp 
cinnamon buns, two green vegetables, with a fruit 
salad or stewed or baked fruit and crisp cookies for 
dessert. 

LEGUMES OR PULSES 

The pulses, which include all kinds of dried beans, 
peas, and lentils, have been used as a very valuable 

food for many hundreds of years. They „ , , , 

Vfliiift flfi food 
were known and cultivated by the an- 
cient peoples of Egypt, India, and other countries. 
The customary way of using them was to roast or 
parch them, then grind them into a flour which was 
cooked in soup or made into cakes. The soup tablets 
used by mountain-climbers and explorers are made on 
a basis of finely ground peas, beans, and lentils. Differ- 
ent varieties of these valuable foods grow in all cli- 
mates, and our Government has stimulated the culti- 
vation of certain types especially valuable for food, 
such as the soy bean and the pinto bean. 

They vary little in their general composition, with 
the exception of the soy bean and the peanut, which 
may be classed with the beans. When they are 
dried they have very little water, about 10 per cent. 
They contain about 65 per cent of carbohydrate, 22 



90 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

to 25 per cent of protein material, about 4 per cent of 
mineral salts, and i per cent of fat. Their fuel value is 
greater than that of meat. Soy beans and peanuts dif- 
fer from the others in that they contain a much larger 
percentage of fat (16 per cent for soy beans, 38 per cent 
for peanuts), whereas their starch content is corre- 
spondingly low. 

They are a hearty food, and like cheese suitable only 
for vigorous people. The woody fiber which surrounds 
each bean, and makes up the framework of all vegeta- 
tion, interferes with the absorption of the nutrients 
present. It may also act as a local irritant hastening 
the food through the digestive tract. If the starch has 
not been thoroughly cooked, it is apt to ferment and 
cause flatulence. When the beans, however, are com- 
bined carefully with other food materials, the work of 
digestion is distributed and causes no difficulty. They 
are extremely valuable as a source of nitrogen for men 
and women who are exercising vigorously, lumbermen 
and day-laborers, for instance. 

All legumes should be soaked at least eight hours 
before cooking. It is better if a half teaspoonful of soda 
How to use is added to two quarts of water for the 
legxunes soaking to help soften the fiber. They 

should then be boiled until thoroughly tender. Soft 
water or rainwater should be used for boiling if possi- 
ble ; since the protein of the pulses tends to form insolu- 
ble compounds with the lime and the magnesium salts 
found in hard water. After the beans are boiled, they 
can be used in a great variety of ways. The one most 
familiar to the New Englander is the historic baked 
bean. Why should we be bound by the habits of our 
ancestors and continue to have that particular food 



OTHER MEAT SUBSTITUTES 91 

every Saturday night? When our Puritan grandmoth- 
ers did all their baking in a brick oven, it was quite 
logical that they should build the fire in the oven on 
Saturday in order to have plenty of food for over the 
Sabbath, since they did no cooking whatever on the 
Lord's Day. Being thrifty souls, they utilized every 
particle of heat present in the bricks of the oven. The 
pies and biscuits, which required the greatest heat, 
went in first, then the cake and bread; and then, in 
order to utilize all the heat left in the bricks, in went 
the bean-pot. Would it not be more logical for those of 
us who use coal ranges and do our ironing on Tuesday 
to have our beans for supper Tuesday night, since we 
could thus utilize the heat of the oven and have a very 
simple supper to serve after a fatiguing day? 

There are many other ways of serving the boiled 
legumes than as baked beans. They may be mashed 
through a strainer and the pulp thus obtained used as 
a basis for soups, such as the black bean, split pea, and 
lentil soups; or this pulp or pur6e may be well sea- 
soned, mixed with fat, and served as a dish by itself of 
about the consistency of mashed potato. The pur^e 
could also be used as a stuffing for green peppers or 
tomatoes ; or it may be mixed with celery, pimentos, a 
little cheese, and baked in a pan and served as a roast 
with a well-seasoned gravy. This same pur^e makes a 
good filling for hearty sandwiches or it may be served 
cold with greens as a salad. 

It must be noted that in using this material in place 
of meat, it, like cheese, must be carefully combined 
with the proper foods. Unlike cheese, it contains a 
large amount of starch and has no fat, so that in serv- 
ing, it is not necessary to increase the amount of starch 



92 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

served with it but it is always well to see that there is 
some fat in the meal in some form or other. This is 
the reason for serving salt pork with baked beans. It 
is poor management to serve a rice or bread pudding 
as a dessert for a supper made up exclusively of baked 
beans and brown bread. Instead, fruit, either cooked 
or raw, should be used for dessert, and vegetables, such 
as greens or tomatoes, or salads which contain water 
and make up in bulk for the concentration of the beans, 
should be served with them. Of course it is not neces- 
sary to serve meat at a meal in which are used baked 
beans or other forms of the pulses, such as split-pea 
soup or green peppers stuffed with lentils. 

Attention should be called to the high food value of 
the humble peanut. It is rich in both protein material 
and fat and has a far greater fuel value 
than an equal weight of beefsteak. When 
ground up into the form of peanut butter, it makes an 
economical and palatable substitute for both butter 
and meat. A good many people object to the drying 
quality of peanut butter; but if it is used in combina- 
tion with a sour jam or marmalade in fillings for sand- 
wiches or on toast or bread, this objection is overcome. 
Peanut butter when used for breakfast could be sub- 
stituted for the usual egg and for butter on the toast. 

NUTS 

Nuts vary considerably in their composition, but 
are used by vegetarians as meat substitutes. The 
chestnut contains more starch than any of the other 
nuts, and has a lower protein and fat content. Brazil 
nuts and pecans are particularly high in fat, while they 
have from 12 to 20 per cent protein material. They all 



OTHER MEAT SUBSTITUTES 93 

have, however, so much woody fiber or cellulose that 
it is difficult for the body to obtain what nutrients are 
present in the nuts, and unless they are ground very 
fine, they are difficult of digestion. This objection to- 
gether with their high cost makes them a rather im- 
practicable substitute for meat. 

CHEESE RECIPES 
WELSH RAREBIT 

1 pound full cream American cheese 

2 tablespoons butter 

1/4 cup milk or 1/2 cup beer or ale" 

I tablespoon Worcestershire 
1/4 teaspoon dry mustard 

Dash of cayenne 
1/2 teaspoon salt 

If cheese is strong add yolks of 2 eggs well beaten. 1/16 
teaspoonful soda may be added. Always cook cheese over 
water. Melt butter. Melt cheese, keeping it always in mo- 
tion, add liquid gradually, then seasoning; when smooth 
and creamy serve on hot crackers or toast. 

FONDUE 

I cup bread crumbs; soak 1/2 hour in 

I cup milk 

I tablespoon butter 

I cup cheese cut fine (1/2 pound) 
1/4 teaspoon salt 

Speck of cayenne 
1/2 egg-yolk 

Cook over water. Melt butter, add cheese, melt it, grad- 
ually add soaked bread crumbs, then seasoning; with last 
portion of bread crumbs add the egg. When smooth and hot 
serve on toast. 



94 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

CHEESE SOUFFLE 

2 tablespoons butter i /2 teaspoon salt 

3 tablespoons flour Few grains cayenne 
1/2 cup scalded milk 1/4 cup grated cheese 

3 eggs 

Melt butter, add flour; when well mixed add gradually 
scalded milk. Then add salt, cayenne, and cheese. Remove 
from fire; add yolks of eggs beaten until lemon-colored. Cool 
mixture, cut and fold in white of eggs beaten until stiff and 
dry. Pour into a buttered baking-dish and bake 20 minutes 
in slow oven. Serve at once. 

CHEESE SOUFFLE 

1 cup milk I /6 teaspoon mustard 

2 tablespoons butter 1/4 teaspoon salt 

4 tablespoons flour Cayenne 

4 eggs I pound American cheese 

2 tablespoons Parmesan cheese 

Make a white vsauce with the flour, butter, and milk. Stir 
the cheese into the warm sauce. Add seasonings. Beat the 
yolks and whites of eggs separately, till stiffs. Cut and fold 
into cooled cheese mixture, yolks first. Put in greased baking- 
dish, and bake in moderate oven, standing in pan of hot 
water. 

BAKED BREAD AND CHEESE 

6 slices stale bread i pint milk, skimmed 

1/4 pound mild cheese Salt, paprika 

Put slices of bread in buttered baking-dish. Cover with 
slices of cheese. Sprinkle well with salt and paprika. Repeat 
until dish is full, leaving the bread on the top. Pour in the 
milk. 

Let stand an hour. Bake 40 minutes in a moderate oven. 
Serve at once. 



OTHER MEAT SUBSTITUTES 95 

LIMA BEAN AND CHEESE ROAST 

{Meat substitute) 

2 cups cooked Lima beans 

1/4 pound cream cheese, commercial or home-made 

3 canned pimentos, chopped 

1/2 cup approximately, bread crumbs 

Mash the beans through a potato ricer. Mix thoroughly 
with the chopped cheese and pimentos. Add bread crumbs 
until it is stiff enough to form into a roll. Brown in the oven, 
basting occasionally with fat and water. 

CORN, TOMATO, AND CHEESE 

1 tablespoon butter or 2 egg-yolks or i egg, whole 

other fat l teaspoon salt 

2 cups grated cheese 1/2 teaspoon paprika 

3/4 cup canned corn I clove of garlic or onion juice 

I ripe pimento 4 slices of bread 

1/2 cup tomato pur6e 

Stir the cheese into the melted fat until cheese is melted. 
Add all other ingredients except the egg. Toast the bread 
on one side and rub the untoasted side lightly with garlic oi' 
onion. Stir the beaten egg into the mixture, cook for a few 
minutes and pour over the untoasted side of the bread. 
Serve at once. 

TOASTED SANDWICH 

2 slices of bread 3/8 inch Hot fat or butter in which to 

thick toast sandwich 

1 egg, beaten I layer cottage cheese 3/8 inch 

2 slices of raw tomato thick 

Put layer of cottage cheese between slices of bread. When 
sandwich is completed, dip in beaten egg and toast quickly 
in hot fat or butter. Cut diagonally and serve with a slice of 



96 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

raw tomato on each section. The addition of pimento, mixed 
with the cheese, improves this dish. 

COTTAGE CHEESE NUT LOAF 
Group I Group 2 

1 cup cottage cheese i cup dry bread crumbs 
1/4 cup peanut butter 1/2 cup walnut or native nut 

2 tablespoons melted meats cut not too fine 

butter I teaspoon salt 

I tablespoon minced 1/2 rounded teaspoon sage 
raw onion i /2 teaspoon thyme 

1/4 teaspoon black pepper 

In one bowl mix group i. In another bowl mix group 2. 
Work contents of 2 bowls together, pack in cake tin and 
bake in moderately hot oven until top is brown. Serve with 
mushroom, tomato, or brown sauce, or use as sandwich 
filling, or sliced cold. 

CHEESE FILLING 

1 pint milk Butter size of small egg 

2 tablespoons cornstarch 2 "Snappy" cheeses 

or rice flour 

Put milk and butter in double boiler, leaving out i /2 cup 
milk. Mix the latter with the rice flour. When the milk is 
hot, pour slowly into flour mixture and put back in boiler. 
Stir until smooth and well cooked, then add 2 " Snappy " 
cheeses broken up in pieces, i teaspoon paprika, i tea- 
spoon salt, dash of cayenne. 

Cool and keep in glass jar in ice chest. This can be used 
for sandwiches, or brush "Barley Biscuits" with melted 
butter, then spread cheese filling on thickly, sprinkle paprika 
on top, and put in oven until hot. Can be heated over and 
used as a Welsh rarebit or cheese sauce, thinned out with a 
little cream or milk. 



OTHER MEAT SUBSTITUTES 97 

CHEESE TOAST 

3 ounces mild cheese 2 teaspoons mustard 

Yolks of 2 eggs Salt and red pepper 

3 ounces butter 

Grate the cheese ; mix it with the yolks of eggs and butter. 
Beat it well, adding the seasonings. Toast some bread in 
2-inch long narrow strips, spread thickly with the mixture, 
put in covered pan in hot oven until heated through, then 
remove cover and let brown. 

CHEESE RAMEKIN 

2 slices bread 
1/2 cup milk 

2 tablespoons butter or other fat 

4 tablespoons grated cheese 

2 eggs 
1/2 teaspoon mustard 

Salt and pepper to taste 

Cook the bread in the milk until it is smooth. Add the fat 
and cheese. Cook one minute; take off and pour over yolks 
of eggs, well beaten, mustard, salt, and pepper. Fold in the 
whites beaten very stiff ; pour into buttered baking-dish and 
bake 15 minutes. 

RISOTTO 

1 cup rice i 1/2 teaspoons salt 

2 tablespoons butter Paprika 

I /2 onion 2 to 3 cups stock or water 

I cup tomato pulp 1/2 cup grated cheese 

Put the rice over fire with plenty of cold water and let 
boil 5 minutes, then drain, and rinse. Melt the butter in a 
saucepan, add rice and onion, let cook until butter is ab- 
sorbed, then add the tomato pulp, salt, paprika, and liquid. 



98 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

Let cook until rice is tender and the liquid is absorbed. Then 
stir the cheese in carefully. Take out the onion, use a fork 
and stir or lift the rice carefully to avoid breaking the 
grains. Serve very hot. 

CHEESE AND EGGS 

Soak I cup of dried bread crumbs in fresh milk. Beat into 
this 3 eggs, add i tablespoon of butter and 1/2 pound of 
grated cheese. Strew upon the top sifted bread crumbs and 
bake in oven until a delicate brown. 

CHEESE CROQUETTES 

3 tablespoons butter i 1/2 cups mild cheese, grated 
1/4 cup flour Salt and pepper 

2/3 cup milk Few grains cayenne 

Yolks 2 eggs 

Make a thick white sauce, using butter, flour, and milk; 
add yolks of eggs and stir until well mixed, then add cheese. 
As soon as grated cheese melts, remove from fire and season 
with salt, pepper, and cayenne. Spread in shallow pan and 
cool. Turn on a board, cut in small squares or strips, dip in 
crumbs, egg, and crumbs again, fry in deep fat, and drain on 
brown paper. 

CHEESE SCALLOP 

1 cup crumbs 1/4 pound cheese, grated 

2 tablespoons butter i i /2 cups milk, hot 
1/4 teaspoon salt 2 eggs 

1/8 teaspoon paprika 

Melt butter, stir in crumbs, and mix thoroughly with 
grated cheese. Beat eggs together, add slowly the hot milk, 
and pour the mixture on the crumbs and cheese ; season and 
pour into buttered molds. Set in hot water in moderate 
oven till set like a custard. 



OTHER MEAT SUBSTITUTES 99 

CHEESE PATTIES 

Individual recipe Large recipe 

I rounding tablespoon grated cheese i /2 pound 

1/2 teaspoon melted butter i tablespoon 

I scant teaspoon milk i tablespoon 

I teaspoon egg i egg 

Salt 1/2 teaspoon 
Paprika 

Mix all to a smooth paste. Make patty cases as follows: 
Have slices of bread one inch thick; shape with large round 
cutter, then with smaller round cutter cut part way through 
the slice and dig out center. Spread lightly with butter and 
brown in oven. Fill case with cheese and place in oven just 
long enough to soften cheese. 

CHEESE CANAPES (I) 

Toast circular pieces of bread, sprinkle with a thick layer 
of grated cheese, season with salt and cayenne. Place on a 
tin sheet and bake until cheese is melted. Serve at once. 

CHEESE CANAPES (H) 

Spread circular pieces of toast with a thin layer of French 
mustard and proceed as in Canap6s I. 

RECIPES FOR LEGUMES 
LENTIL OR SPLIT-PEA SOUP 

1 cup dried lentils or peas 3 tablespoons butter 

2 cups of cold water 4 tablespoons flour 
1/2 onion l 1/2 teaspoons salt 

2-inch cube of fat salt pork 1/3 teaspoon pepper 

Pick over lentils or peas, and soak overnight. Drain ; add 



lOO FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

cold water (enough to make 4 cups with the amount ab- 
sorbed), pork, and onion, simmer until soft — 3 or 4 hours — • 
and rub through a sieve. Cook the butter, flour, and season- 
ing as for white sauce. Add the pulp and cook well. If it is 
too thick, thin out with water or milk. 

Additional flavoring for black and white bean soups 

2 slices of carrot 1, ,. ^,, r^j 

,. , ^ . I browned m i tablespoon fat and 

2 slices of turnip, > ,11, r ^•• 

-. I added before straining 

1/4 of a green pepper J 

1/8 of a bay leaf 

3 peppercorns 
I clove 

DRIED BEAN SOUP 

I pint beans 

1 large onion, minced fine 

4 tablespoons drippings or butter 
3 tablespoons flour 
A few dried celery leaves 

2 teaspoons salt 
1/2 teaspoon pepper 

3 pints cold water 

2 quarts boiling water 

Wash the beans. Put plenty of cold water over them, and 
soak overnight. Pour off the water and put the beans in a 
kettle with the 3 pints of cold water. Bring the water to 
the boiling point and pour it off. Add the boiling water to 
the beans and let them simmer for 4 hours. Add the celery 
the last hour of cooking. Strain the soup. Brown the onion 
in the drippings. Add the flour and cook, stirring often. 
Add the thickening and seasoning to the soup and cook 20 
minutes. 



OTHER MEAT SUBSTITUTES loi 

BAKED BEAN SOUP 

I cup baked beans 

1 cup tomato 
, 3 cups water 
Cook and strain. Make a sauce with 

2 teaspoons butter 
2 teaspoons flour 

I 1/2 teaspoons salt 

1/2 teaspoon mustard 

1/8 teaspoon pepper 
and strained liquid. Let it cook well. If desired, a slice of 
onion may be added to the tomato. 

GREEN PEPPERS STUFFED WITH COW PEAS 

I tablespoon butter or other fat 
I tablespoon onion finely chopped 

1 tablespoon sweet green pepper finely chopped 

2 cups cooked cow peas 
I /2 cup grated cheese 

Cook the onion and pepper in the fat, being careful not to 
brown, and add them to the peas and cheese. 

Cut sweet green peppers into two pieces lengthwise, re- 
move all the seeds, and fill each piece with the mixture. 

Bake in a moderate oven until the peppers are soft. Baste 
occasionally. 

LENTIL LOAF 

{Substitute for meat) 
1/2 cup dried lentils I onion, grated 

1/3 to 1/2 cup soft bread crumbs i pimento, chopped 
3 tablespoons melted i teaspoon salt 

butter or other fat Mace 

I egg Dash of cayenne 

Soak the lentils overnight. Drain, cover with cold water, 
and boil until tender. Press through a sieve to remove skins. 



102 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

Cook onion in melted butter. Add to lentil pur6e together 
with pimento, bread crumbs, and seasonings. Mix in well- 
beaten egg. Bake in bread-pan, in a loaf, about 30 minutes 
in a moderate oven, basting occasionally with oil or butter. 
Serve with tomato sauce. 

Tomato Sauce 

2 tablespoons flour i cup stewed and strained 

1/2 teaspoon salt tomato 

Melt fat, add flour and salt. Stir until smooth. Add tomato 
juice, stir constantly until it boils. 

BOSTON ROAST 

3/4 cup red kidney beans i teaspoon salt 

I cup grated cheese 3 tablespoons butterine melted 

1/4 cup bread crumbs in 1/2 cup water 

Soak kidney beans overnight in water to cover, drain, 
cover with fresh water, and cook until tender and water is 
almost evaporated. Mash beans or put them through a meat- 
grinder. Add grated cheese and bread crumbs to make the 
mixture stiff enough to be formed into a roll. Add salt and 
bake in a moderate oven, basting occasionally with melted 
butterine. 

Serve with tomato sauce. This dish may be flavored with 
onion. 

PECAN NUT LOAF, WHITE SAUCE 

5 riced potatoes I i /3 cups hot milk 

3 tablespoons butter 1/3 cup finely chopped pecan 

I teaspoon salt nut meats 

Few grains pepper i cup white sauce 

^ To riced potatoes add butter, salt, pepper and hot milk. 
Beat with fork until creamy and pack into a slightly but- 
tered shallow pan. Set in pan of hot water and let stand in 
a moderate oven until thoroughly reheated. Turn on hot 



OTHER MEAT SUBSTITUTES 103 

platter, sprinkle with finely chopped pecan nut meats, pour 
around one cup white sauce and garnish with parsley. 

VEGETABLE ROAST 

I cup vermicelli or rice i cup bread crumbs 
I 1/2 cups boiling water i cup chopped walnuts 

3 small onions i teaspoon chopped parsley 

3 tablespoons drippings 1/2 teaspoon poultry seasoning 
I egg I teaspoon salt 

Cook vermicelli or rice in boiling water until tender. 
Finely chop the onions, and cook in drippings until tender 
and yellow. Add egg well beaten and the cooked vermicelli, 
bread crumbs, chopped walnuts, chopped parsley, poultry 
seasoning, and salt. 

Mix well, shape in a loaf, and place in a baking-dish. Bake 
I hour in a moderate oven, basting frequently with melted 
drippings. Serve with brown sauce. 

Brown Sauce (or Tomato Sauce may be used) 

Q tablespoons oleomargarine 1/8 teaspoon pepper 

I slice onion I cup boiling water 

3 tablespoons flour i teaspoon vegex 
1/4 teaspoon salt 

Melt the oleomargarine, add onion, and cook until oleo- 
margarine is well browned. Add flour mixed with salt and 
pepper, and stir until flour is browned. Add boiling water in 
which has been dissolved the vegex. Stir until sauce boils and 
strain. 

RICE AND NUT LOAF 

I well-filled cup warm boiled i cup peanuts, chopped fine 
rice I cup crumbs (made of stale 

I cup milk barley biscuits) 

I egg 1/4 teaspoon pepper 

Salt to taste 



104 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

> Mix and put in buttered bread-pan. Set into another pan 
of water and bake 1/2 hour. Put two tablespoons of 
melted butter on top. When the loaf is done turn out on 
platter and serve with cheese or tomato sauce. (Use rule 
given for cheese sauce ; common cheese may be used instead 
of "Snappy.") 

Quick Tomato Sauce 

I can tomato soup 1/2 can hot water 

1/4 teaspoon ground clove A dried celery leaf or two 

I tablespoon sugar I slice onion 

A dash of paprika 1/2 teaspoon salt 

CREAMED PEANUTS AND RICE 

I cup rice (uncooked) 3 tablespoons flour 
cups chopped peanuts 3 tablespoons fat 
1/2 teaspoon paprika 3 cups milk (whole or skim) 
2 teaspoons salt 

Boil rice. Make white sauce by mixing flour in melted fat 
and mixing with milk. Stir over fire until it thickens. Mix 
rice, peanuts, and seasoning with sauce, place in greased 
baking-dish and bake for 20 minutes. 



CHAPTER VIII 

CEREALS 

With this chapter we begin the study of another group 
of food substances, the carbohydrates, which is di- 
vided into two subdivisions, starches and sugars. These 
may look aUke when in powdered form, but they taste 
very differently and are quite different in their chemical 
composition. The sugars will be left to a later chapter. 

When looked at under the microscope, raw starch is 
seen to be made up of a mass of cells, each with a 
woody coat, embedded in a network of changes 
woody fiber. The markings on the woody starch 
coat of the small granules differ with the "^ ergoes 
source of the starch ; that from the potato is marked in 
one way and that from oats, barley, and rice in still 
different ways, so that each can be readily detected by 
close examination. When mixed with cold water, starch 
does not dissolve, but settles on standing. When, how- 
ever, this mixture of starch and water is heated, it 
undergoes a chemical change. The woody coats of the 
starch granules are broken open by heat, as is also the 
woody fiber framework of the starch itself, permitting 
the starch to swell, and forming a thick paste with the 
water. This is said to be the hydrolysis of the starch, 
and unless starch has gone through this change, it can- 
not be properly acted upon by the digestive juices. 

If this paste is heated further, it will become thinner 
until finally it is a watery liquid again. This is due to 
the fact that the starch has undergone a further chemi- 
cal change, gradually becoming first a gum called "dex- 



io6 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

trine," and then a sugar known as "maltose." This 
change in the chemical form of the starch can be pro- 
duced more rapidly by dry heat. When flour is browned 
on the pan for brown gravy, we are making dextrine 
from some of the starch granules. Since dextrine is 
soluble in water, the browned flour will not thicken 
as well as ordinary flour, and more must be used to 
the same proportion of water. We also dextrinize the 
starch in our bread when we make a slice of toast, 
which is the reason why a piece of dry toast is more 
easily digested than a slice of fresh bread. 

Starch is found exclusively in the vegetable king- 
dom. It is the form which nature takes for the storage 
Source of of food for the use of the plant at some 
starch future time. Usually this storehouse of 

food is laid by for the nourishment of the seedling 
which will make the new plant; hence starch is found 
in seeds or tubers where the embryo lies dormant. 
Starch, as human food, is taken primarily from the 
seeds of plants belonging to the grass family, such as 
wheat, rye, oats, barley, and rice. We also find it in 
the kernel of the com, in the tuber of the potato, and 
in the root of some tropical plants which gives us ar- 
rowroot and tapioca. Sago is prepared from the pith 
of several species of palms, natives of the East Indies. 
But all of these are the same chemical substance though 
appearing on the market in different forms. 

The term "cereal" has two distinct meanings as 
generally used. The correct use of the term is when it 
is applied to the grain itself, while its secondary mean- 
ing is the product made from the grain in the form of a 
breakfast food. 

The structure of the kernels of all grain is much the 



CEREALS 107 

same. The outside is well protected by several bran 
coats — five in the case of wheat. The in- structure 
side is divided into two parts, one, much °^ kernel 
larger than the other, is called the "endosperm," and 
the smaller one is known as the "germ." In the germ 
we find protein material, since here we have the ma- 
terial which will eventually form the new plant. We also 
find in the germ whatever fat there is in the grain. It 
contains minute quantities of substances known as 
"enzymes," or unorganized ferments, which enable it 
to utilize for food the starch material in the endosperm. 
The endosperm itself, along with its mass of starch 
granules embedded in woody fiber, contains a network 
of protein material. This particular protein material is 
known as "gluten," and is found in greater quantity in 
wheat and rye than in any other cereal. It is because of 
this substance that wheat and rye make a porous loaf 
of bread. The Biblical phrase, "Except a seed fall into 
the ground and die, it cannot live," is literally true, 
since the life of the seedlet depends entirely upon the 
fermentation of the starch in the grain, as it cannot be 
used for food until it is turned through fermentation 
into the soluble form of sugar. 

The cereal grains have been used for human food for 
many hundreds of years. It is one of the wonders of na- 
ture that a grain suitable as a food for the Use of grains 
people of different climates grows abund- ^°*" ^°°^ 
antly in those climates. Rice, for instance, which has 
the lowest fat content of any of the grains, grows in 
warm climates where the people do not need fatty 
food; while oats and corn, the two that are richest in 
fat, are indigenous to cold climates where fat is essen- 
tial. The grains were first used whole, being parched on 



io8 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

hot stones or in ashes. Later it was found to be more 
convenient to use them after they had been cracked by 
pounding between stones and the coarser bran re- 
moved. In this form they were boiled with water and 
used as mushes. Still later this process was carried 
further and meals were made from the grain by a pro- 
longed pounding in a mortar with a pestle or between 
stones. The woman of the primitive race was the one to 
prepare the meals, until later, animals were harnessed 
in such a manner as to turn one stone upon another. 

As the ingenuity of the races increased, the forces 
of nature were used for this grinding. Stones were still 
used as grinding surfaces, but the upper millstone was 
now turned by wind or water. Survivals of these old- 
fashioned mills are still to be found on Long Island 
and in the South. Meal from such a mill contained 
the whole of the kernel of corn or wheat, with the ex- 
ception of the outermost bran coats which were sifted 
out. This produced a meal containing fat which grew 
rancid on standing and could not be kept for any length 
of time. As the development of machinery progressed, 
the old-fashioned millstones were replaced by modem 
steel machinery. 

A modern flour-mill is a very complicated institution 

and cannot be gone into in detail here. The grinding 

, ... surfaces are steam rollers arranged in se- 

Milling . , 1 1 • 1 1 • • 1 1 

ries through which the gram is passed and 

many products are obtained. Sometimes as many as 
fifty are turned out from a single mill. Since these roll- 
ers are slightly heated, the effect is very different from 
that obtained by the old-fashioned stones. The endo- 
sperm or starchy part of the kernel is made brittle and 
can easily be pulverized, whereas the germ, which con- 



CEREALS 109 

tains the fat, is flattened out when passed through the 
rollers and is separated from the meal at the first sift- 
ing. This gives a meal which is almost entirely lacking 
in fat, while the caked germ is used for the oil which can 
be extracted from it, then is finally made into fodder 
for cattle. With wheat this process is carried to its 
greatest extent until we have a large variety of flours 
in use on the market. We will discuss these more fully 
in the next chapter. 

With the shortage of wheat due to war conditions we 
have learned to use and to appreciate more of the ce- 
real products than we have known before. Grains used 
Flour has been made from barley, com, for bread- 
oats, and rice as well as from the more ^ 
familiar rye and wheat, and all of these can be used to 
take the place of some of the wheat in bread-making. 
Because of their lack of gluten, to make a successful 
loaf of bread they cannot be used in a greater propor- 
tion than a third of the substitute to two thirds of 
wheat. As a usual thing wheat, rye, and com are the 
three grains that are used for breads; the others are 
used whole or ground as meal for other purposes. The 
use of barley, rye, and wheat for bread is thought to 
mark the stages in the growth of the wealth of a na- 
tion. As people become more prosperous they discard 
barley bread for rye, while wheat bread has always 
been the sign of luxury. 

There is no real reason for this difference in use ex- 
cept for the flavor, as barley contains just as much 
nourishment as wheat. It contains less . 
fat than corn or oats, and slightly more 
starch than oats or wheat. It is of very ancient origin, 
growing in a wider range of climate than any other 



no FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

cereal and was the chief bread plant of the ancients- 
and of Europe down to the sixteenth century. Because 
of its great enzymic power it is used for malting and 
makes a basis for all beers and ales. When the hull is 
removed it is sold as pearl barley. Its importance as a 
national resource is shown by the extent of its produc- 
tion in the United States. As a crop, it ranks fourth, 
corn, wheat, and oats being its superiors. It is used to 
make gruel for infants and invalids. 

Corn, rightly known as maize, is native to America, 
though its cultivation has spread rapidly to Europe, 
northern Africa, and Asia. It is grown to 
so great an extent in this country that the 
supply that is turned into cornmeal could be increased 
tenfold without changing the amount of land now de- 
voted to corn-raising. An increase in the demand for 
cornmeal would make it more profitable for the farmer 
to sell his com to the miller than to use it for feed. 
Many commercial products are made from com, 
among which are com sio-ups and commercial glucose. 
It is not surely known that oats were cultivated by 
the Egyptians or Hebrews, Greeks, or Romans. They 
are thought to have been used first by 
the peoples of eastern Europe or Tartary. 
They were cultivated by prehistoric western Europe, 
but not until after wheat and barley were in use. The 
production of oats increased rapidly, until in Scotland 
to-day it occupies one third of the land cultivated in 
crops and in Ireland one half of all grain and green 
crops. This grain contains a larger percentage of crude 
fiber than maize at the expense of starch, while the 
kernel is richer in protein and fat than any other of our 
cereals. It is used chiefly in the form of oatmeal. 



CEREALS III 

Rice is known to have been cultivated in China be- 
fore 2800 B.C. It was introduced into Europe by the 
Saracens, and was brought to the United 
States in 1694 as a present to the Gov- 
ernor of South CaroHna. It has been grown in this 
country since that time. There has been much talk of 
late of the harm caused by the use of "polished" rice. 
The reason for this is that in order to have a pure white 
rice, the kernels are subjected to a process by which all 
of the bran is very carefully removed. This takes away 
from the rice a large proportion of its mineral matter 
and its vitamines. This loss is an important one where 
rice is practically the sole article of diet, as is the case 
among the very poor of China and the Philippines, 
and is no doubt the cause of such diseases as beriberi. 
Where rice is used, however, two or three times a week 
and is only one article of a very mixed diet, the loss is 
too small to be considered. Cured or brown rice, how- 
ever, is to be had on the market for those who want it, 
but requires longer cooking than the "polished" rice. 

The cultivation of rye is not so ancient as the culti- 
vation of wheat or barley. It contains less protein and 
fat than wheat, but it does contain gluten 
which makes it possible to make a porous 
bread from it. It is found in the market both as fine 
and coarse flour. Like barley it is used for the manu- 
facture of alcohol and alcoholic beverages and as a feed 
for cattle. 

All of these, together with wheat, are used in one 
form or another for breakfast cereals. When used 
whole, the husks only are removed and the Breakfast 
grains require a very long, slow cooking, cereals 
In this form they are served as porridge. Oats are the 



112 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

most common, though com in the form of hominy has 
long been in use. These have been considerably re- 
placed by prepared cereals known as "rolled oats" and 
wheat. The kernel is partly cooked by steam at the 
factory and pressed while wet between rollers. It is to 
be noted that this type of cereal has not been thor- 
oughly cooked, and is much better if given a longer 
cooking than is specified on the box. 

There are many other specially prepared cereals on 
the market. These are usually sold in packages with 
trade names. The processes of their manufacture are 
secret; but in a general way the grains are cleaned, the 
husks removed, and the grains cooked or dried and 
crushed. Some have salt, molasses, or sugar added, 
while some are colored with caramel. Some are rolled 
very thin. Those that are like dried crumbs have prob- 
ably been made into dough, baked, crushed, and then 
browned. Some are shredded and many are parched or 
toasted. Malted breakfast foods are treated by malt in 
the process of manufacture. Malt is barley which has 
been allowed to germinate and then kiln-dried. Those 
cereals which are called "puffed" have been heated 
under pressure at a high temperature and the pressure 
suddenly diminished. The general composition of all 
these is very much the same with a fairly high pro- 
tein content, from 9 to 15 per cent, and carbohydrates 
65 to 75 per cent. The fat is the most variable con- 
stituent, being greatest in these foods from corn and 
oats and lowest in rice, varying from 5 to 0.2 per 
cent. The ash proportion is small, from 0.5 to 2 per 
cent. 

Uncooked cereals should all be given a long, slow 
cooking to break up the starch granules. They are best 



CEREALS 113 

stirred Into rapidly boiling salted water and allowed 
to cook directly over the fire from five to Cooking of 
ten minutes. They can then be placed in cereals 
the top of a double boiler on the back of the stove, or, 
better still, in the fireless cooker for overnight. It is to 
be remembered that no cereal can be overcooked, even 
though it is partly cooked to begin with. The longer it 
is cooked the more digestible it is. The general pro- 
portion for the amount of water to be used with cereals 
is one part of cereal to four parts of water for the 
granular varieties and one part of cereal to two parts of 
water for the flaked. These proportions, however, do 
not hold true where the cereal is allowed to boil vigor- 
ously for some time, as the water boils away rapidly. 

Although cereals purchased in packages are apt to be 
cleaner and are more easily handled in the home, it is 
to be noted that they cost more than those bought in 
bulk. The ready-to-eat kind are higher in price than 
the partially cooked, though their nutrient value is 
practically the same, pound for pound. Many are so 
light, however, that the value received for the money 
paid is very low. The cost of malted cereals is more to 
the producer; hence a higher price to the purchaser. 

It is perfectly possible to use cereal breakfast food in 
other ways than for breakfast dishes. Rice, hominy, 
and fried cornmeal mush are already in constant use to 
supply the starch at lunch or dinner. Others can be 
used for spiced steam pudding, small cakes, and other 
desserts. When cooked with dates or figs they can be 
molded and served cold with cream. In the form of 
mushes, gruels, and cereal jellies they have a valu- 
able place in the diet of children, old people, and 
invalids. 



114 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 
RELATIVE VALUES OF CEREALS AS PURCHASED 



Oatmeal 

Oatmeal 

Cornmeal 

Cornmeal 

Hominy 

Samp 

Cracked wheat. 
Cream of wheat 

Wheatena 

Rice 

Shredded wheat 

Puffed rice 

Corn flakes. . . . 
Graham flour. . . 

White flour 

Bread 



Unit of purchase 



I lb. 4 oz. package 

I lb. by bulk 

I lb. 8 oz. package 

I lb. by bulk 

I lb. 8 oz. package 

I lb. by bulk 

I lb. 10 oz. package 

I lb. 12 oz. package 

I lb. 8 oz. package 

I lb. by bulk 

12 oz. package 

5 oz. package 

8 oz. package 

I lb. 

I lb. 

I lb. 5 oz. loaf 



Cost 


Total 
calories 


.12 


1912 


.07 


1800 


.12 


2419 


.07 


1613 


.08 


2412 


.08 


1608 


.25 


2652 


.23 


2870 


.18 


1947 


.18 


1591 


.14 


1243 


.15 


500 


.15 


800 


.07 


1627 


.o8i 


1600 


•15 


1541 



Calories 
for 10 c. 

1583+ 
2571 
2015 
2304 

3015 

2010 

1060+ 

1247 

IO8I 

883 

887 + 

333+ 

533+ 

2324+ 

1888+ 

1002 



Proportions for Cooking Cereals 



Kind 



Amount Water 



Cornmeal I cup 

Granular cereals i cup 

Hominy i cup 

Oatmeal I cup 

Rice, boiled I cup 

Rice, steamed i cup 

Rolled oats i cup 



4 to 5 cups 

4 to 6 cups 

4 cups 

4 cups 

8 to 12 cups 

4 cups 

2 to 3 cups 



Salt 
teaspoon 
teaspoon 
teaspoon 
teaspoon 
teaspoon 
teaspoon 
teaspoon 



Time 
I to 3 hours 
1/2 to I hour 
3 to 5 hours 
3 to 4 hours 
30 minutes 
I to 3 hours 
I to 3 hours 



CEREAL RECIPES 
OATMEAL SOUP 



Boil I cup rolled oats with 2 cups boiling water. When 
thoroughly done, add: 

I pint milk I teaspoon butter or butterine 

1/4 teaspoon pepper i slice of onion 

I cup celery water ( or flavor with dried celery leaves) 
Add I more cup of milk. Strain and serve. 



CEREALS 115 

GREEN PEA AND OATMEAL SOUP 

Drain i can of peas. Add a slice of onion, a sprig of parsley, 
a sprig of mint. 

I teaspoon sugar 1/2 teaspoon salt 

I /4 teaspoon pepper 2 cups water 

Cook slowly 15 minutes. Rub through a coarse sieve. Boil 
I scant cup oatmeal in i pint water until well done. Then add 
I pint milk. Pour slowly over the peas. You may add i tea- 
spoon butterine. Rub through a coarse sieve. Heat in double 
boiler. 

OATMEAL AND SPINACH SOUP 

I cup oatmeal 2 teaspoons sugar 

61/2 cups water i cup tomato 

I onion ; seasoning 3/4 cup cooked spinach 

Boil water; add the oatmeal and the other ingredients 
and cook together 3/4 hour in a covered saucepan, stirring 
frequently. Add milk if possible. 

RICE AND ONION SOUP 

3 tablespoons rice 
I onion, sliced fine 
I 1/2 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon drippings, lard, or other fat 

2 tablespoons parsley 

I clove; I bay leaf; scraps of celery 
7 cups boiling water 

Put the drippings in a pan, and when smoking hot, fry 
the rice and onion in it. Pour this into a kettle with the water, 
salt, celery, clove, and bay leaf. Boil till the rice is cooked 
(about 30 minutes). Add the parsley and serve. 



Ii6 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

SCALLOPED RICE 

Honie recipe Individual 

3/4 cup rice 2 tablespoons 

2 tablespoons fat i teaspoon 

2 tablespoons flour i teaspoon 

I cup milk 1/4 cup 

1/4 cup cheese, grated 1/2 tablespoon 

1/4 cup bread crumbs i tablespoon 

Boil rice in large kettle of water. Drain and mix with 
white sauce, made as follows: Melt the fat and add the flour, 
when smooth pour in the cold milk and cook until it boils, 
stirring constantly. Butter a baking-dish. Put in the creamed 
rice with the layer of cheese in the middle and on the top. 
Cover with buttered bread crumbs. 

BAKED HOMINY 

3/4 cup fine hominy 1/4 cup butter 

1 teaspoon salt i tablespoon sugar 

1 cup boiling water i egg 

2 cups milk 

Add hominy and salt to boiling water. Let boil 2 minutes, 
then cook in double boiler until water is absorbed. Add one 
cup of milk and cook i hour. Remove from range, and add 
butter, sugar, egg slightly beaten, and the other cup of milk. 
Pour into a buttered dish and bake in a slow oven i hour. 

Use instead of rice or potatoes at a "meatless" meal. 

RICE WITH PARSLEY OR CHIVES 

1/2 cup rice 2 tablespoons butter 

I tablespoon finely chopped parsley or chives 

Cook rice until tender in boiling salted water; add butter 
and parsley or chives, mixing gently with fork to avoid 
breaking the grain. Serve as a vegetable. 



CEREALS 117 

TURKISH PILAF 

1 /2 cup washed rice i cup stock highly seasoned 
3/4 cup stewed tomatoes 3 tablespoons butter 

Add tomato to stock; heat to boiling point; add rice, cook 
5 minutes over flame, and steam until rice is soft; stir in 
butter with a fork and keep uncovered that steam may 
escape. Serve as a vegetable or as a border for curried or 
fricasseed meat. 

SPANISH PILAF 

2 cups cooked rice i cup soft bread crumbs 

1 quart can tomatoes 1/2 sweet green pepper, chopped 
I cup cheese, cut fine 4 slices of bacon (on top) 

Salt 

Cook in a casserole for 11/2 hours. 

MACARONI WITH PEPPERS 

1 cup cooked macaroni 1/2 cup grated Young 

2 tablespoons chopped onion America cheese 
2 tablespoons chopped green 2 eggs 

pepper I i /2 cups milk 

2 tablespoons chopped red 
pepper 

3 slices of toasted bread in 1/2 inch cubes 

Place a layer of macaroni in the bottom of a baking-dish, 
then a layer of vegetable, of cheese, of bread cubes. Repeat 
twice. Beat eggs and add milk. Pour into the dish and let 
stand ten minutes. Bake until a silver knife comes out clean. 

BOILED MACARONI WITH TOMATO SAUCE 

Boil macaroni until tender in salted water, drain, and 
pour cold water over it. Serve with tomato sauce. 



Ii8 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

Tomato Sauce 

1 pint tomato juice i slice carrot 

2 tablespoons flour i slice onion 

2 tablespoons butter Sprig of parsley 

Bit of bay leaf 2 whole cloves 

8 peppercorns 1/2 teaspoon salt 

Brown vegetables in butter, add tomatoes and seasonings, 
let cook slowly 15 minutes, and strain. Wet flour with some 
of the liquid, rub smooth, and add to remaining liquid; boil 
2 or 3 minutes. 

1/4 pound of macaroni needs i pint sauce. 

The Italians serve grated cheese with this dish, preferably 
Parmesan cheese. 

MACARONI LOAF 

1/2 pound macaroni i egg, or none 

2 cups white sauce 1/2 pound dried beef 

Boil macaroni until tender, drain; tear beef into small 
pieces ; add egg, if used, to sauce. Put in layers in a buttered 
mold, cover, and steam two hours. Turn out and serve with 
tomato sauce. 

GNOCCHI ALLA ROMANA 

I pint milk (or 1/2 milk and 1/2 water) 
1/2 cup farina or commeal 
I egg 
Butter and grated cheese 
Salt 

Let the milk come to a boil; salt it, add the cornmeal 
slowly, stirring all the time vigorously. When it is a smooth 
mixture, take from the fire, add butterine (i tablespoon), 
several tablespoons grated cheese, and the egg slightly 
beaten. Mix well and spread out on molding board in a 
sheet 3/4 inch thick. When cold, cut in squares or diamonds, 



CEREALS 119 

putting a layer of these in a buttered baking-dish (shallow), 
sprinkle with cheese, and dot with butter. Make other layers 
until dish is full, and bake in oven until brown on top. 

PITTSBURGH SAMP 

I cup samp 2 pimentos 

1 quart boiling water i cup white sauce 

2 teaspoons salt 1/4 pound mild cheese 
I onion, finely chopped 

Soak the samp in cold water overnight. Drain, add the 
boiling water and salt and boil 10 minutes. Cook in double 
boiler 5 or 6 hours or in the fireless cooker overnight. Then 
add the onion and cook 5 minutes. Add the pimentos cut in 
small pieces, cook 7 minutes, and turn into buttered baking- 
dish. Mix the cheese with the white sauce and pour over the 
samp. Cover with buttered crumbs and bake until brown. 

OATMEAL PUDDING 

I I /2 cup cold boiled oatmeal i cup sliced apples, or 
1/2 teaspoon salt 1/2 cup seedless raisins 

Cook 5 hours in fireless cooker and eat with sugar and 
milk, or butter, for sauce. 

Other cereed puddings: 

Bread puddings 
Rice puddings 
Baked Indian puddings 
Tapioca puddings 



CHAPTER IX 
FLOUR MIXTURES 

The grain most used for breadstuffs of all kinds is 
wheat, though com and rye are in frequent use and 
others have been brought to the fore by 
war conditions. Wheat is one of the oldest 
of the grains and was cultivated very early in China, 
India, and Egypt. There are several varieties grown 
and various methods used in its cultivation. The two 
grades that are primarily used for flour in this country 
are the one known as winter wheat which is sowed in 
the fall and harvested in the early summer, and the 
other known as spring wheat which is planted in the 
spring and is harvested in the late summer. The first of 
these has a kernel which is softer and more starchy. 
It produces a whiter flour with a less proportion of 
gluten and is used largely for pastry. The kernel of the 
other is harder, being richer in gluten, and is more diffi- 
cult to separate from the bran. This gives a darker flour 
that is more granular to the touch. It will not compact 
when squeezed in the hand as does the pastry flour, and 
is gritty between the fingers. This is known as bread 
flour, though nowadays some of the mills are using 
combinations of different varieties of wheat for their 
fine-grade flours. 

Every flour mill produces several grades of flour. The 

first of these is known as the patent or high-grade flour 

into which goes 72 to 76 per cent of the 

total weight of the wheat. The second 

grade is known as baker's flour and is made up of 18 to 



FLOUR MIXTURES 121 

22 per cent of the wheat. The rest is sold as low-grade 
flour. Graham flour was originally a flour made from 
the entire kernel with the exception of the outer bran 
coats, while "entire" wheat flour is made from the en- 
dosperm part of the kernel but does not include the 
germ as does graham flour. It does, however, contain 
some of the bran and therefore more of the mineral 
salts than are found in ordinary white flour. 

These various flours are used for the infinite variety 
of breads, muflins, cakes, and pastry which we are in- 
cluding under the general term of flour mixtures. The 
simplest form of any such mixture is the old-fashioned 
hoe-cake where the meal, usually corn, was mixed with 
water and salt and baked on a board before an open 
fire ; or is found in the form of the com dodger where 
the meal is scalded and when cooled is formed into 
small cakes, and cooked in a hot oven. Gradually, how- 
ever, other ingredients have been added to give a 
greater variety and to make them more pleasing to the 
taste. We have built up, then, a definite series of these 
mixtures as follows : 

Proportions for mixtures 

1. Batter — that which is beaten in a bowl 

Liquid Flour 

a. Pour batters: i part i to i 1/2 parts 

Used for popovers, griddle- 
cakes, and waffles 
h. Drop batters: I part 2 parts 

Used for muffins and cakes 

2. Dough — that which is moistened and handled on a board 

Liquid Flour 

a. Soft doughs: i part 2 1/2 to 2 3/4 parts 

Used for baking-powder 
biscuit, shortcake, etc. 
h. Stiff doughs: i part 3 parts or more 

Used for bread and pastry 



122 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

When different ingredients are added to the original 
simple mixture, it must be noted whether they would 
Effect of fall under the heading of liquid or dry in- 

ingredients gredient. Butter, for instance, or other 
shortening, melts when heated and so behaves like a 
liquid in the mixture; therefore the shortening should 
be counted in with the liquid and as more is used, the 
other liquid should be decreased to keep the proportion 
correct. Eggs become stiff in the oven, so that a mixture 
containing several eggs may be thinner before going 
into the oven than one without so many. As sugar is 
added, the mixture becomes heavier and more baking- 
powder must be used. Flavors may be either liquid or 
dry and should be counted in where they belong ; coffee, 
for instance, must form a part of the total liquid, while 
spices are counted as dry ingredients. The ingredients 
for a plain cake are just the same as those for a rich 
muffin since they both belong in the same group of 
flour mixtures, the only difference between them being 
the manner in which they are put together. 

There are four distinct methods of mixing bread- 
stuffs. If a cook is familiar with these and with the gen- 
Methods of eral proportions given above, she no longer 
™i^^2 needs to be bound to a cook-book but can 

make up her own recipes. She must, however, become 
familiar with the feel of different kinds of mixtures. 
She should also know that if the oven is hot the mix- 
ture can be thinner than if it is cool. Also where corn- 
meal is used the mixture must be very thin because 
commeal absorbs so much water in cooking. 

I. Muffin Method 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add eggs slightly 
beaten. Add milk. Add shortening melted. 



FLOUR MIXTURES 123 

2. Cake Method 

Cream the fat. Work in half the sugar. Beat the 
yolks of the eggs and rest of the sugar. Add this to the 
creamed fat. Sift salt and baking-powder with the flour, 
add this to the fat mixture, alternating with milk. Cut 
and fold in stiffly beaten whites of eggs. 

3. Pastry or Baking-Powder Method 

Mix and sift dry ingredients several times. Cut in 
the fat with two knives. Add moisture lightly. Toss on 
a board. Pat to about one half inch thickness and cut 
out. 

4. Bread Method 

Scald milk, or boil water. Pour onto fat, sugar, and 
salt. When lukewarm, add yeast dissolved in small 
amount of lukewarm water. Add flour, knead, let rise 
till double in bulk. Knead again. Put into bread-pans. 
Let rise till double in bulk. Bake 45 to 50 minutes in 
moderately hot oven. 

In order to make the breadstufTs light and porous 
in texture, some leavening agent must be used. The 
simplest of these and the cheapest is air. Leavening 
This is incorporated in the mixture by the agents 
sifting of the flour, by the beating of the egg, and by 
the lightness with which the mixture is handled. It acts 
as a leavening agent because hot air occupies more 
room than cold air. The second is moisture, and this 
can be counted on more than is frequently realized. 
Since moisture is changed to steam in the oven it has a 
great expansive power which lifts the batter and helps 
to make it light. We count upon this agent for the 
popping of popovers and for the flakiness of pastry. 

Our next agents are artificial ones. A gas is intro- 
duced into the mixture which will expand in the oven- 



124 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

In all these cases the gas used is the same, carbon diox- 
Soda and ide, but it is formed in various ways. The 
sour milk simplest is by the use of a carbonate or 
baking-soda with a natural acid such as is found in 
sour milk or molasses. The quantity of soda used must 
be carefully measured because if more is used than can 
be split up by the acid present, it will be left in the 
gingerbread or griddle-cakes as soda, giving a very dis- 
agreeable taste to the food. One level teaspoonful of 
soda is all that is necessary to be used with two cups of 
sour milk. Since this would not make enough gas to 
make the mixture very light it is well to add some bak- 
ing-powder along with it — one fourth as much as we 
would use if we were using sweet milk. Since the action 
takes place just as soon as the soda comes in contact 
with the sour milk, it is well to mix the soda thoroughly 
with the other dry ingredients and not add the sour 
milk until just as the mixture is ready to be put into 
the oven. 

When we are not using sour milk or molasses, we 
must look elsewhere for an acid to combine with our 
Baking- soda in order to give us the required gas. 

powders There are several such acids which when 

combined with soda form the baking-powders to be 
had on the market. The best of these is made of soda 
and cream of tartar mixed with a little starch to keep it 
from absorbing moisture. Cream of tartar is the salt of 
an organic acid found in grapes and when combined 
with soda leaves a salt in the muffin. This salt is the 
active ingredient of a seidlitz powder and the amount 
ordinarily used for a dozen muffins is about half of an 
ordinary seidlitz powder. Another group of baking- 
powders is made of a combination of a phosphate salt 



FLOUR MIXTURES 125 

with soda, and the third group is known as the alum 
powders. In each case the residue left in the muffin 
must be considered and as these are somewhat irritat- 
ing to the intestinal tract, it is well always to use the 
best baking-powder obtainable and as little of that as 
possible. Three level teaspoons of baking-powder are 
sufficient for two cups of flour where one egg is used. 
Since a light mixture can be obtained by the action 
of air and moisture, both of which are far less ex- 
pensive than any baking-powder, a premium is put 
on the cook who can handle her mixture lightly and 
quickly. 

If a small amount of baking-powder is put in a tum- 
bler and cold water added to it, it will be seen that the 
action causing an effervescence of gas takes place im- 
mediately. This is true in the flour mixture, the gas is 
given off just as soon as the liquid is combined with the 
dry ingredients. Since then the gas is desired in the 
mixture in the oven, it is well not to add the liquid to 
the dry ingredients until the pans are greased and the 
oven is ready to receive them. 

Another way of forming carbon dioxide in our flour 
mixtures is by the action of yeast. The gas formed is 
exactly the same as that formed from 
baking-powders but it is formed in an en- 
tirely different way. Yeast is a tiny single-celled plant 
introduced into the dough where it finds plenty of food 
and conditions just right for growth. Like any other 
plant it must have warmth, moisture, mineral matter, 
protein food, and carbohydrate in order to thrive. 
These are all found in a mixture of wheat flour and 
water. The yeast cannot utilize the starch of the flour 
until that has been changed into the soluble form of 



126 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

sugar. This is done by the process of fermentation 
which the yeast itself is able to perform by the secre- 
tion of ferments during its growth process. It also is 
able to change the sugar thus formed to alcohol and 
carbon dioxide. It is a greedy little plant and changes 
far more starch to carbon dioxide than it needs for 
food, so that we can see the bubbles of gas forming in 
the dough while it is rising. 

There are many more chemical changes involved in 
the process of making bread but this is not the place to 
go into them thoroughly. Each step in the process of 
bread-making is done with some definite aim in mind: 
The reason the milk is scalded or the water boiled before 
starting our dough is in order to sterilize it to prevent 
other micro-organisms from growing under the same 
conditions as are being prepared for the yeast. If this 
were not done, sour bread might be the result. When 
bread is baked, the yeast plant is killed, leaving nothing 
in the bread but dead yeast cells which are organic ma- 
terial and therefore harmless. The carbon dioxide gas 
is expanded and driven out ; so also is the alcohol that 
has been formed. The gluten present in the wheat flour 
being elastic stretches with the expansion of the gas 
until it is hardened by the action of the heat of the 
oven. The starch on the inside of the loaf unites with 
the water present to form hydrolized starch while 
that on the outside becomes dextrinized in the greater 
heat thus giving to the loaf its shiny brown appear- 
ance. At the same time flavors are developed due to the 
formation of a small amount of ethereal salts. 



FLOVR MIXTURES 127 

MUFFIN, BREAD, AND CAKE RECIPES 
RHODE ISLAND CORN CAKE 

1 cup Rhode Island commeal 

2 cups boiling water 
1/2 teaspoon salt 

4 or 5 teaspoons drippings or lard 

Scald the meal with boiling water — the meal should 
double its bulk. Pat into neat ovals 2x5 about i /2 inch 
thick. If too stiff, the batter can be thinned with milk, or 
sour milk and soda. Drop large tablespoonfuls on a hot 
griddle, having the fat hot. Serve with syrup. 

HOMINY PUFFS 

1 cup boiled hominy i tablespoon melted fat 

1/2 teaspoon salt 2 eggs, yolks and whites beaten 

separately 

To the hominy, add the salt, melted fat, beaten yolks, and 
stiff whites. Drop onto greased tins and bake. 

DROP CORN CAKES 

2 cups commeal 3 eggs 

4 cups boiled hominy Butter the size of an egg 

Mix all together in above order, and thin with milk until 
you can drop the mixture from a spoon on a pan, then bake 
brown. 



CORN PONE 

3 cups boiling water 
3 cups cornmeal 
1/4 teaspoon salt 



Stir together. Spread evenly in a thin sheet on a buttered 
pan and dot with bits of butterine. Bake until brown. 



128 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

CRISP CORN BREAD 

3 cups milk (or milk and water) 
I I /2 cups cornmeal 
I teaspoon salt 

Mix well and spread in shallow pan to about 1/4 inch in 
depth. Bake in a moderate oven until crisp; it will take 
about 3/4 hour. 

RICE OR HOMINY CAKE 

2 cups cold rice or hominy softened with hot water 

3 eggs beaten light 
I cup sweet milk 

I cup flour 

I teaspoon butter 

Beat the eggs into the softened rice or hominy. Add the 
milk, flour, and butter. Bake in a greased pan, and turn out 
while hot. Serve with butter. 

LIBERTY MUFFINS 

I cup wheat flour, white, entire, or graham 
I cup cornmeal, rye meal or flour 

1 cup milk or water 

4 teaspoons baking-powder 

2 tablespoons sugar or Karo corn syrup 
2 tablespoons Mazola or melted suet 

I teaspoon salt 

Mix and sift dry ingredients (flour, meal, baking-powder, 
sugar, and'salt). Add the milk, beating quickly and lightly. 
Mix in the fat. Bake 30 minutes in a moderate oven. 

BRAN MUFFINS 

I egg 2 tablespoons shortening 

I 1/2 cups bran 31/2 teaspoons baking-powder 

I 1/2 cups white flour 1/2 teaspoon salt 
I I /2 cups sweet milk 



FLOUR MIXTURES 129 

Mix the salt, baking-powder, flour, and bran together. 
Beat egg sHghtly and add to mixture. Add the milk and 
melted shortening, mixing thoroughly and lightly. 

Bake in a moderate oven 25 to 30 minutes. 

CORN MUFFINS 

I cup cornmeal 2 tablespoons sugar 

I cup flour I beaten egg 

4 teaspoons baking-powder i cup milk and water mixed 
1/2 teaspoon salt 4 tablespoons melted short- 

ening 

Mix in order given, beat well, and bake in greased gem 
pans in hot oven 20 minutes. 

BARLEY AND RICE FLOUR MUFFINS 

7/8 cup rice flour i tablespoon sugar 

I 3/8 cups barley flour i cup milk 

I teaspoon salt i egg 

4 teaspoons baking-powder i tablespoon melted fat 

Mix by regular muffin method. Bake in well-greased 
muffin molds for 35 minutes in moderate oven. 

For rice flour and oatmeal muffins, in place of i 3/8 cups 
of barley flour use i i /8 cups of ground rolled oats. 

RYE MUFFINS 

I I /4 cups rye meal i /4 cup molasses 

I 1/2 cups flour I 3/4 cups milk, part of which can 

5 teaspoons baking- be water 

powder I tablespoon melted butter 

I teaspoon salt 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add milk and molasses grad- 
ually, and melted butter. Bake in hot oven in buttered gem 
pans 25 minutes. 



130 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

SPOON CORN BREAD 

3/4 cup cornmeal i cup sweet milk 

1/4 cup flour 1/2 cup sour milk 

1 tablespoon butter i egg 

2 tablespoons sugar 1/2 tablespoon salt 

I /4 teaspoon soda ( 2 teaspoons baking-powder only if no 
sour milk is used) 

Melt butter m baking-dish. Mix other ingredients as for 
muffins, keeping out 1/2 cup of the sweet milk. Pour mix- 
ture into baking-dish, add 1/2 cup of sweet milk. Bake 40 
minutes in moderate oven. 

CORNMEAL BlSCXnXS 

I cup yellow or white cornmeal 4 teaspoons baking-powder 
I cup wheat flour 2 tablespoons shortening 

I teaspoon salt Liquid to make soft dough 

Mix the dry ingredients thoroughly. Cut in the shorten- 
ing, add the liquid. Place the dough on a floured board and 
roll or pat it until it is i /2 inch thick. Cut the biscuits and 
bake them in a hot oven from 12 to 15 minutes. A floury 
surface can be avoided by brushing the biscuits with milk 
or water just before baking. 

QUICK RAISIN BREAD 

21/3 cups entire wheat flour 1/4 cup brown sugar 

1/2 cup fine cornmeal i ^gg, well beaten 

2 tablespoons baking-powder i 1/4 cups milk 
I 1/2 teaspoons salt i cup seeded raisins, 

cut in halves 

Mix and sift dry ingredients, add egg and milk. Mix well 
and then add raisins. Put into greased bread-pan, cover and 
let stand 20 minutes. Bake in a moderate oven 50 to 60 
minutes. 



FLOUR MIXTURES 131 



NUT BREAD 

2 cups white flour 4 teaspoons baking-pow- 

2 cups graham flour der 

I cup sugar I egg 

I cup nuts, English walnuts, I teaspoon salt 

chopped I 1/2 cups milk 

Mix the flours, baking-powder, salt, and sugar together. 
Stir in the nuts, the egg well beaten, and the milk, beating 
lightly and quickly. Pour into well-greased bread-pans. Let 
stand 20 minutes. Bake one hour in moderate oven. 

PRUNE LOAF 

21/2 cups entire wheat 1/4 cup brown sugar dissolved in 

flour I cup liquid (prune water and 

I I /2 teaspoons salt milk) 

4 teaspoons baking- I tablespoon melted shortening 

powder 9 to 12 prunes 

Wash and soak prunes several hours; drain, stone, and cut. 
Mix and sift flour, salt, and baking-powder. Add liquid and 
shortening, and mix thoroughly before adding prunes. Let 
stand in a greased pan 20 to 25 minutes in a warm place. 
Bake in a moderate oven one hour. 

BUCKWHEAT GRIDDLE CAKES 

2 cups scalded milk i /6 yeast cake 
1/2 teaspoon salt i 1/3 cups buckwheat flour 

I tablespoon molasses 2/3 cup wheat flour (bread) 

Mix and beat well, let it stand overnight; beat slightly 
and allow it to rise a short time before baking. 1/3 cup of 
cornmeal may be added instead of part of the buckwheat 
for variety. For quick work use 2 yeast cakes. 



132 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 



RAISED WAFFLES 

2 cups milk 
l/6 yeast cake 

2 cups flour, bread or pastry 
1/2 teaspoon salt 

2 eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately 

I tablespoon butter, melted 

Mix the milk, yeast, and flour at night. In the morning 
add the other ingredients. Use only one egg, make the batter 
a trifle thinner, and fry on the griddle and you have Flannel 
Cakes. 

This recipe may be varied by using 1/2 or 1/3 fine, white 
cornmeal or graham flour with the white flour. If intended 
for tea, mix in the afternoon, using i to 2 yeast cakes. 

RAISED MUFFINS 

I cup scalded milk i teaspoon salt 

1 cup boiling water 1/4 yeast cake 

2 tablespoons butter i egg 

1/4 cup sugar 4 cups flour, pastry 

Add butter, sugar, and salt to milk and water; when luke- 
warm add dissolved yeast cake, egg well beaten, and flour; 
beat thoroughly, cover, and let rise overnight. In the morn- 
ing, fill buttered muffin rings two thirds full ; let rise until 
rings are full, and bake 30 minutes in hot oven. For quick 
work use 2 yeast cakes. 

GRILLED MUFFINS 

Put buttered muffin rings on a hot greased griddle. Fill 
one half full with raised muffin mixture, and cook slowly 
until well risen and browned underneath ; turn mufiins and 
rings, and brown the other side. 



FLOUR MIXTURES 133 

CORNMEAL AND WHEAT BREAD 

I 1/2 cups milk, water, or a i 1/2 teaspoons salt 

mixture of the two i tablespoon sugar 

1/2 cake compressed Butter (if used) i table- 

Or spoon 

I 1/4 cups milk, water, or a i cup cornmeal 

mixture of the two 2 cups wheat flour 
1/4 cup liquid yeast 

Pour I 1/4 cupfuls of the water over the cornmeal, salt, 
sugar, and fat (if used), and heat the mixture gradually to 
the boiling point or nearly to it and cook 20 minutes, prefer- 
ably in a double boiler. The water is sufficient only to soften 
the meal a little. Allow the meal to cool to about room tem- 
perature and add the flour and yeast, mixed with the rest 
of the water, or the 1/4 cupful of liquid yeast. Mold thor- 
oughly and let stand until it doubles its bulk, make a loaf, 
place in a pan of standard size, allow to rise until it nearly 
fills the pan, and bake 45 or 50 minutes. 

ROLLED OATS BREAD 

2 cups rolled oats i tablespoon shortening 

3 cups boiling water i /4 yeast cake dissolved in 

1/2 tablespoon salt 2 tablespoons lukewarm water 

1/2 cup molasses 6 to 7 cups white flour 

Add the boiling water to the rolled oats, salt, molasses, 
and shortening, and let stand until lukewarm. Add the dis- 
solved yeast and flour. Mix thoroughly, and let rise until the 
dough doubles its bulk. Again stir; put into greased pan, 
and let rise until loaf doubles its bulk. Bake about 50 min- 
utes, in a moderate oven. 

POTATO BREAD 

I tablespoon shortening i cup mashed potato 
11/2 tablespoons sugar i /4 yeast cake dissolved in 
I /2 tablespoon salt 2 tablespoons lukewarm water 

I /2 cup scalded milk 2 cups white flour 



134 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

To the shortening, sugar, salt, and potato add the milk. 
When lukewarm add the dissolved yeast. Gradually knead 
in all the flour, though the dough will be very stiff. Let rise 
until it doubles its bulk. Again knead and put into greased 
pan. Let rise until loaf doubles its bulk. Bake about 50 min- 
utes in a moderate oven. 

RICE BREAD 

I 1/2 cups cold cooked rice 1/2 yeast cake 

(either brown or white) 2 tablespoons scalded milk 
21/4 cups wheat flour (or water drained from 

I teaspoon salt rice) 

I tablespoon sugar I tablespoon shortening 

Put rice through strainer, add dissolved yeast cake, 
melted shortening, scalded milk, and part of flour in which 
salt and sugar have been sifted. Add enough flour to knead 
on a board, knead thoroughly five minutes. Let rise until 
doubled in bulk. Cut down. Shape in loaves, put in bread- 
pan to rise again. Bake in a moderate oven about one hour. 

RYE BREAD 

1 tablespoon shortening i /4 yeast cake dissolved in 
1/2 tablespoon salt 1/2 cup lukewarm water 

2 tablespoons molasses i cup rye flour 

1/2 cup scalded milk 2 cups (about) entire wheat 

flour 

To the shortening, salt, and molasses add the milk. When 
lukewarm, add the dissolved yeast and flour. Mix thoroughly 
and let rise until dough doubles its bulk. Knead, or stir 
thoroughly, put into greased pan, and let rise until loaf 
doubles its bulk. Bake about 50 minutes in a moderate 
oven. 



FLOUR MIXTURES 135 

SOFT GINGERBREAD 

4 tablespoons shortening 2 cups pastry flour 

1/2 cup sugar i teaspoon ginger 

I beaten egg I teaspoon allspice 

1/2 cup N.O. molasses 1/2 teaspoon soda 
I /2 cup milk, sour 

Make like cake — mixture should be almost a pour bat- 
ter; bake in a sheet in a moderate oven 20 to 30 minutes. 

OLD-FASHIONED SOFT GINGERBREAD 

Break i egg in teacup; add i tablespoon melted butter, 
3 tablespoons sour milk; fill up cup with molasses and pour 
into mixing-bowl. Add i cup flour, i scant teaspoon soda, 
I scant teaspoon ginger, and a little salt. 

DROP GINGER CAKES 

I cup brown sugar 4 cups flour (pastry) 

I cup molasses i /2 teaspoon soda 
I cup sour milk 4 teaspoons ginger 

3/4 cup butter 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

I egg 1/2 teaspoon cloves 

Put butter, water, molasses, and sugar in a saucepan over 
the flame, let it come to a boil, and cool slightly; then mix 
in thoroughly other ingredients. The mixture should not 
run when dropped an inch or more apart on a greased sheet. 
Sour milk would be preferred to water if the molasses were 
bought in cans and lacked acid. Bake in a hot oven. 

FAIRY GINGERBREAD 

Individual recipe Large recipe 

1 tablespoon butter 4 tablespoons 

2 tablespoons sugar 1/2 cup 
I tablespoon milk 1/4 cup 
5 tablespoons flour i 1/4 cups 

1/4 teaspoon ginger i teaspoon 

1/16 teaspoon soda 3/16 teaspoon 



136 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

Make like cake. The batter should be stiff enough to 
spread. Invert a pie pan, butter it, and spread the mixture 
i/8 inch thick. Bake in a moderate oven, watching con- 
stantly. When light brown take from the oven and check off 
with a knife or roll up. The small recipe will cover two pans. 

[Note: All cakes are improved by the addition of a little 
salt, even though the recipe does not call for it.] 

BUTTER CAKE 

1/2 cup butter 2 cups flour 

1 cup sugar 21/2 teaspoons baking-powder 

2 small eggs 1/2 teaspoon vanilla 
I /2 cup milk 

Cream the butter, add the sugar gradually, then the eggs 
well beaten — beating the mixture all the while to keep the 
consistency the same. Add the vanilla, then at the same time 
one third of the milk and one third of the flour, then another 
third of the milk and third of the flour, beating well mean- 
while. Sift in the last third of the flour containing the baking- 
powder and mix well before adding the last portion of milk 
— this to be added, or more, if needed. The consistency is 
a matter of experience. Bake in shallow cake pans, and put 
together with different frostings or filling, from which the 
cake takes its name. 

MAPLE SUGAR FROSTING 

I pound soft maple sugar 
1/2 cup boiling water 
Whites of 2 eggs 

Break sugar in small pieces, put in saucepan with the 
boiling water, and stir occasionally until sugar is dissolved. 
Boil without stirring until syrup will thread when dropped 
from tip of spoon. Pour gradually on beaten whites, beating 
mixture constantly, and continue beating until of right con- 
sistency to spread. 



FLOUR MIXTURES 137 

SOUR-CREAM FILLING 

1/2 cup chopped English walnuts 1/2 cup sour cream 
1/2 cup chopped raisins 1/4 cup sugar 

Mix ingredients and spread between layers. 

FIG FILLING 

I /2 pound figs finely chopped i /3 cup boiling water 

I /3 cup sugar i tablespoon lemon juice 

Mix ingredients in order given, and cook in double boiler 
until thick enough to spread. 

WALNUT CAKE 

Add to the cake batter 3/4 cup walnut meats sliced thin, 
bake mixture in a sheet. When cool cover with boiled frost- 
ing, crease in squares, and place one half walnut in each 
square. 

MARSHMALLOW CAKE 

1/2 cup butter 3 teaspoons baking-powder 

1 cup sugar 1/4 teaspoon cream of tartar 
1/2 cup milk Whites 5 eggs 

2 cups flour I teaspoon vanilla 

Follow recipe for mixing Butter Cake. Bake in shallow 
pans, and put Marshmallow Cream between the layers and 
on top. 

MARSHMALLOW CREAM OR PASTE 

3/4 cup sugar 1/4 pound marshmallows 

1/4 cup milk 2 tablespoons hot water 

1/2 teaspoon vanilla 

Put sugar and milk in a saucepan, heat slowly to boiling 
point without stirring, and boil six minutes. Break marsh- 
mallows in pieces and melt in double boiler, add hot water 
and cook until mixture is smooth, then add hot syrup gradu- 



138 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

ally, stirring constantly. Beat until cool enough to spread, 
then add vanilla. This may be used for both filling and 
frosting. 

PISTACHIO PASTE 

To Marshmallow Paste add a few drops extract of almond, 
I /3 cup pistachio nuts blanched and chopped, and leaf green 
to color. 

CHOCOLATE NOUGAT CAKE 

1/4 cup butter 3 teaspoons baking-powder 

I cup sugar I/2 teaspoon vanilla 
I egg and i egg-yolk 2 squares chocolate, melted 

1 cup milk I /3 cup powdered sugar 

2 cups pastry flour 2/3 cup almonds blanched and 

shelled 

Cream the butter, add gradually i cup sugar and egg 
unbeaten; when well mixed add vanilla, then 2/3 cup milk, 
and flour in portions, the last portion of flour sifted with 
baking-powder. To melted chocolate add i /3 cup powdered 
sugar, place on range, add gradually remaining milk, and 
cook until smooth. Cool slightly, and add to cake mixture. 
Bake 15 to 20 minutes in round layer-cake pans. Put between 
layers and on top of cake boiled frosting sprinkled with 
almonds. 

DEVIL'S FOOD 

7 tablespoons butter 3 cups flour 

I 1/2 cups sugar I teaspoon soda 

3/4 cup sour milk i teaspoon cream of tartar 

2 eggs 2 ounces bitter chocolate 

Melt chocolate, pour over it 1/2 cup boiling water; mix 
well and let it cool thoroughly before using. Put the batter 
together in the ordinary way adding chocolate as part of 
moisture. Bake in shallow pans. Put layers together with 
boiled frosting or the following 



FLOVR MIXTURES 139 

FILLING 

1/4 cup butter 1/2 cup sour cream 2 cups brown sugar 

Boil like candy; stir while cooking; flavor when cold with 
vanilla. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE, OR DEVIL'S FOOD 

(Nellie Dot Ranche) 
2 eggs beaten separately to a stiff froth 
2 cups brown sugar, mortared 
1/2 cup butter 
1/2 cup sour milk 
21/2 cups flour 
1/2 cup boiling coffee or water, with a teaspoonful of 

soda mixed in it and let stand 
1/4 pound vanilla chocolate, grated 

Bake in moderate oven, in three layers. 

FILLING FOR DEVIL'S FOOD 

2 cups brown sugar, mortared 
1/4 pound grated chocolate 
2/3 cup sweet milk 

r vanilla 
I teaspoon blended extracts < rose 

y almond 
Butter size of an egg 

Boil until it drops from a spoon. Remove from the fire 
and beat until it begins to thicken. Fill the cooled cake with 

LADY BALTIMORE CAKE 

8 eggs, whites only I/2 pound milk 

I pound flour 2 teaspoons baking-powder 

1 pound sugar 2 teaspoons almond extract 
1/2 pound butter 



140 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

Cream the butter. Cream the sugar into the butter thor- 
oughly. Sift the baking-powder with the flour, and add to the 
butter and sugar alternately with the milk. Beat the whites 
stiff and cut and fold them into the mixture. Bake in three 
layers. 

Icing to be put between : 
3 cups sugar i i /2 gills boiling water 

Whites of 4 eggs i teaspoon tartaric acid 

Boil sugar and water for lO minutes. Beat the whites tall 
stiff, add the acid, then pour the boiling syrup over them 
slowly. Add 2 cups of raisins and 2 cups of chopped walnuts. 

NUT LOAF CAKE 

2 cups bread crumbs 1/2 teaspoon salt 

I cup chopped hickory nuts Juice of i /2 lemon 

I cup seeded raisins 2 teaspoons baking-powder 

Mix well, adding enough hot water to moisten. Cover and 
allow to stand for 10 minutes. Add another cup of hot water, 
turn into buttered molds, and bake an hour in a moderate 
oven. Serve cold sliced. 

CHOCOLATE HOOVERS 

Whites of 2 eggs 1/2 cup cocoa 

3/4 cup Karo syrup 1/2 teaspoon cinnamon 

2 cups bread crumbs i teaspoon vanilla 

Beat the whites until stiff. Drip in the syrup. Mix the dry 
ingredients and cut and fold them into the whites. Drop 
onto a cooky sheet, and bake 12 to 15 minutes in a medium 
oven. 

SPONGE DROPS 

Whites of 3 eggs i /3 cup flour 

1/3 cup powdered sugar 1/8 teaspoon salt 

Yolks of 2 eggs I /4 teaspoon vanilla 



FLOUR MIXTURES 141 

Beat whites of eggs until stiff and dry. Add sugar gradu- 
ally and continue beating. Then add yolks of eggs beaten 
until thick and lemon-colored, and flavoring. Cut and fold 
in flour mixed and sifted with salt. Drop from tip of spoon 
on unbuttered paper. Sprinkle with powdered sugar and 
bake about 8 minutes in moderate oven. 

This mixture may be shaped and baked as Lady Fingers. 

NUT MACAROONS 

I cup chopped nut meats 1/2 cup very fine cracker crumbs 
I cup sugar Vanilla or almond flavoring 

Whites 3 eggs 

Beat eggs very light. Add sugar gradually and beat more. 
Fold in nuts and vanilla, and lastly the crumbs. If eggs are 
large add more crumbs. Drop on unbuttered paper and bake 
in moderate oven. Remove from paper with sharp knife as 
soon as done. 

SWEDISH MACAROONS 

12 ounces shredded almonds I pound sugar 
4 ounces ground almonds 2 whole eggs 
4 ounces cornstarch Grated rind of two oranges 

Pass sugar and cornstarch through sieve twice; add the 
almonds, orange rind, and lastly the eggs beaten light with- 
out separating. With buttered hands shape mixture into 
balls the size of a walnut ; bake in slow oven on tins covered 
with waxed or oiled paper. 

MARGUERITES 
Boil I cup sugar and 1/2 cup water until it threads. Re- 
move to back of range and drop in 5 marshmallows cut in 
pieces. Let stand to dissolve, then gradually pour onto the 
whites of 2 eggs beaten until foamy. Add 2 tablespoons of 
shredded cocoanut and i /4 teaspoon vanilla. When partially 
cool add I cup chopped English walnut meats. Spread on 
saltines and brown slightly in hot oven. 



142 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

This quantity will spread between 3 and 4 dozen crackers. 
Delicious for afternoon teas. 

ANGEL CAXE 

I cup whites of eggs i teaspoon cream of tartar 

I cup granulated sugar 1/2 teaspoon vanilla 
I cup flour 1/2 teaspoon salt 

Sift flour once, measure, sift again four times. Add salt 
to whites, beat until foamy, add sifted cream of tartar and 
beat until stiff and dry. Mix sugar and flour, add gradually 
to beaten eggs, continuing the beating until thoroughly 
mixed. Add flavoring, and turn into an unbuttered Angel 
Cake pan. The bottom of the pan may have a paper on it. 
Place in a slow oven, and after it has risen increase the heat 
slightly to brown. Bake from 3/4 to I 1/4 hours. When 
done place pan bottom up until cool. 

SPONGE CAKE 

6 eggs, yolks 6 eggs, whites 

I cup sugar i cup flour 

I tablespoon lemon juice 1/4 teaspoon salt 
1/2 lemon rind, grated 

Beat yolks until thick and lemon-colored, add sugar grad- 
ually, and continue beating, using Dover egg-beater. Add 
lemon juice, rind, and whites of eggs beaten until stiff and 
dry. When whites are partially mixed with yolks, remove 
beater and carefully cut and fold in flour mixed and sifted 
with salt. Bake one hour in a slow oven in an Angel Cake 
pan or deep narrow pan. 

GOLDEN CAKE 

1/4 cup butter i cup flour 

1/2 cup sugar I 1/2 teaspoons baking-powder 
1/2 cup yolks of eggs I teaspoon orange extract 

1/3 cup milk 



FLOUR MIXTURES 143 

Cream the butter, add sugar gradually, then yolks of eggs 
beaten until thick. Add extract. Add flour and milk, a third 
of each at a time, the baking-powder being sifted with the 
last portion of flour. Reserve the last portion of milk until 
you are sure you need it ; after baking-powder goes in little 
beating should be done. If desired, omit orange extract, add 
1/2 cup nut meats cut in small pieces and bake in individual 
tins. 

BOILED FROSTING 

I cup sugar i teaspoon vanilla, or 

1/4 cup boiling water 1/2 tablespoon lemon juice 

I white of egg 1/4 teaspoon cream of tartar 

Put sugar, part of cream of tartar, and water in saucepan, 
stir until sugar is dissolved, heat gradually to boiling point, 
and boil without stirring until syrup will thread when 
dropped from tip of spoon or tines of silver fork, which will 
be Thread 238*'. Pour syrup gradually on beaten white of 
egg, beating mixture constantly, and continue beating until 
of right consistency to spread; then add flavoring and pour 
over cake, spreading evenly with back of spoon. If not 
beaten long enough frosting will run; if beaten too long it 
will not be smooth. Frosting beaten too long may be im- 
proved by adding a few drops of lemon juice or boiling 
water. This frosting is soft inside and has a glossy surface. 
If frosting is to be ornamented with nuts or candied cherries, 
place them on frosting as soon as spread. 

CARAMEL FROSTING 

2 cups light brown sugar 2 teaspoons butter 

1/3 cup milk 1/2 teaspoon vanilla 

Melt butter, add sugar and milk. Stir until sugar is dis- 
solved, then boil until when dropped into cold water it 
approximates a soft ball. Remove from fire, cool, and beat 



144 POOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

until right consistency to spread ; if too thick add a few drops 
of milk or water; flavor, pour over cake, and spread evenly 
with back of spoon. 

UNCOOKED FROSTING 

Put I /2 white of egg unbeaten into a bowl with an equal 
volume of water, stir into it gradually 4x powdered sugar 
until the mixture will spread but not run when put upon a 
cool cake. Flavor and use at once. If it must stand cover 
with a dcimp cloth. Fruit juice may be used instead of water. 



CHAPTER X 
FRUITS AND VEGETABLES 

In taking up this new group of food substances, that of 
vegetables and fruit, there is need for emphasis on in- 
creasing their consumption in the United States. We 
use a comparatively large amount of fresh fruit, but 
the total amount of fruit and vegetables consumed is 
low when measured by their value in the diet. We fall 
short particularly in the use of the staples, especially the 
potato, cabbage, beets, and turnips, as compared with 
the amount used on the continent of Europe. To be 
sure, we use a relatively large amount of string beans 
and peas, but small amounts of the matured and dried 
beans and peas. The potato in this country is regarded 
not as a staple of the diet, as it is in Germany, but as 
an addition to it like a green vegetable. Though regu- 
larly on our tables, it appears only in small quantities 
usually once a day, though sometimes twice. Since it 
contains 20 per cent of starch it could easily be used 
to replace grain products in a mixed diet, counting five 
parts of potato the equivalent of one part of grain. 
Singularly enough, universal as is its use, it is shipped 
from one farming community to another farming com- 
munity which adds the cost of transportation and 
storage to its price to the consumer. The price, of 
course, when taken in relation to the food value 
ought to approximate that of grain, pound for pound 
one fifth that of grain. 

There are whole sections of our population in which 



146 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER- 

the leaf vegetables are practically unknown. Their 
consumption is low all over the United States except 
among the foreign-bom. Neither are the root vege- 
tables used to so great an extent as they should be. 

The value of vegetables in the diet does not lie en- 
tirely in their actual chemical composition for they all 

contain a large amount of water, some- 
Composition ^. , ^ ... 
times as much as 95 per cent, especially 

such foods as tomatoes, cabbage, celery, and berries of 
different kinds. The amount of protein is small, but 
they are a cheap source of this important food nutrient 
when vegetables are abundant. It is to be noted that 
in respect to the protein content, potatoes are not 
so valuable in the diet as bread, since potatoes con- 
tain only about 2 pe? cent of nitrogenous matter 
whereas bread contains 12 per cent. The amount of 
starch in the vegetables varies with the type of vege- 
table or fruit. As we have already said, the potato con- 
tains 20 per cent, the sweet potato has about the same 
amount, and an unripe banana about 22 per cent. 
Some starch is found in all of the underground vege- 
tables but in no other of them is there so much as in the 
potato. We also find traces in the vegetables of the 
other carbohydrate, sugar, which may increase in 
quantity to the 15 per cent found in sugar beets and 
to the far larger quantity found in fruits, especially the 
dried ones. 

The chief value of the vegetables in the diet, how- 
ever, is as a source of mineral salts. They are an im- 
A source of port ant source of iron, and stand next to 
minerals ^{{^ ^s a supply of calcium. They also 

contain potassium and the sodium salts of organic 
acids. These form alkaline or basic substances in the 



FRUITS AND VEGETABLES 147 

blood and tissues which help to maintain the normal 
neutrality of the blood and are capable of neutralizing 
acids produced in protein metabolism. For this reason 
alone the greater the quantity of meat, fish, and eggs 
used in the diet, the more vegetables and fruit should 
be used. To put the same statement in terms of money, 
the same amount should be spent for milk, fruit, and 
vegetables as is spent for meat, fish, and eggs. 

Besides these definite chemical constituents we have 
been told recently by Dr. McCullom and others that 
the leaves of plants contain minute quanti- a source of 
ties of some substances that are absolutely " vitamines " 
essential for normal growth and health. It was found 
by experimentation that it was impossible to nourish 
young animals adequately on seeds alone or the prod- 
ucts of seeds. These were lacking in three important 
points; their proteins were of poor quality, they were 
poor in three of the nine mineral elements required, and 
they were lacking in that "vitamine" known as the 
"fat-soluble A." These deficiencies were made up by a 
combination of leaves and milk with the seeds, or of 
meat, leaves, and seeds. A mixture of leaves and seeds 
alone gave fairly good results. Hence the leaves of 
plants are the second protective food, milk and its con- 
stituents being the first. Experiments are being made 
to get meals and flour in which dried and pulverized 
leaves are added to the product of the seed. For in- 
stance, 20 to 30 per cent of dried spinach or celery 
makes up the deficiencies of a seed product. 

This "fat-soluble A" which is found in the leaves of 
plants is present in the germ of the grain to a slight 
extent but is usually lost in the milling process, nor is 
it found in the vegetable oils extracted from the grain. 



148 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

Both "vitamines" "A" and "B" are present in all 
vegetables so that it is perfectly possible to have a 
successful diet entirely of foods of plant origin. It is 
not altogether wise, however, as variety of diet tends 
towards safety and towards a more perfect nourish- 
ment of the body. There is no harm in using milled 
products or canned goods if their deficiencies are made 
up by combinations with plenty of fresh foods. The 
"fat-soluble A" is thought to be unchanged by heat, 
but the "water soluble B " is in time hurt by heat and 
more rapidly if in alkaline solutions. 

There are several ways of grouping vegetables and 
fruit. They may be grouped according to their general 
Grouping of composition, such as (i) watery, (2) 
vegetables starchy, and (3) sweet. In the first group 
would come all the green vegetables, the berries, and 
other watery fruits such as pears, apples, and cherries. 
In the second group would come the potatoes, both 
white and sweet, bananas, and some tropical fruits such 
as the breadfruit. Under the third heading we would 
place the dried fruits, such as dates, figs, and raisins. 
Another way of grouping the vegetables alone would be 
above ground and below ground. And still a third way 
would be according to the part of the plant that is used, 
as roots (beets, carrots, and turnips), stems (asparagus 
and celery), leaves (spinach, beet greens, lettuce, cab- 
bage, etc.), flowers (cauliflower, Brussels sprouts), and 
fruit (tomato, cucumber, corn, peas and beans, etc.). 

For cooking purposes it is somewhat easier to divide 
them into the two groups of strong- juiced and sweet- 
Cooking of juiced. Certain vegetables like onions and 
vegetables cabbage are always strong-juiced, while 
others, such as beets and carrots, may be strong- juiced 



FRUITS AND VEGETABLES 149 

in the winter, and sweet- juiced when they are young 
and fresh from the home garden. Strong- juiced vege- 
tables should be cooked In a large quantity of water in 
order to modify the flavor, and the water may be 
changed once or even twice during the course of the 
cooking. For sweet-juiced vegetables, however, the 
purpose should be to save all the flavor possible so that 
cooking in water is wasteful. If water at all is used, as 
small a quantity as possible to keep the vegetables from 
burning is all that is necessary and this should be made 
into a sauce and served with the vegetable. If a larger 
quantity of water is required as for corn and asparagus, 
it should be boiling when the vegetable is put in, and 
drained off just as soon as the vegetable is tender. It 
takes far less time than is usually supposed to cook 
these vegetables sufiiciently. Water in which vegetables 
are cooked can be used in making soup or In gravies. 
Boiling vegetables Is necessarily a wasteful way of 
cooking them since the mineral salts for which they 
are particularly valuable In the diet are partially lost 
in the water. It Is better to steam them or bake them. 
In fact, a properly baked potato is the only form in 
which a potato should be given to a very young child 
or an invalid. If a fork is run into the potato when it is 
taken from the oven, it allows the steam to escape and 
prevents the potato from becoming soggy as it cools. 

The aesthetic qualities of fruit are the ones that are 
emphasized since the purpose of the fruit by nature is to 

insure the scattering of the seed, hence It „ ^ , .. 
. , . , , , tin 1 . 1 Uses of fruit 

is highly colored and flavored in order to 

attract birds and insects. We have then certain defi- 
nite uses for fruit In the diet besides the ones we have 
already mentioned. They are a valuable source of 






Co 



c 
O 



O a; 0) 



rt c3 rt 






3 3 



*i ^ XI ^ 

S^ -O T3 *J- 



t: ««-> en ui 






•ti "flj "aS o 
l> CL, Cl, U 



S 

s 



«i> "2 



•r to (U 

"^ 4) 4> 

J3 . - a> 

-w j: J3 

0) o u 



rt 



— j: .ti 
•^ .-S ^ 



•a 
c 
cd 

tc 
o 



o S 
c '^ 

O -. 



3 



•o 




o 


c 






a 


vl> 


rfT 




-!-> 


(0 


h 


3 


ctf 


a 


S 


s 


^ 


u 


<-■ 


K 


o 


O 




aT 


« 


4-' 


u 


u 


"^ 


3 


IS 


fc 


W 




■*-> 








^ 
^ 


1 



J3 



-«-> 3 
05 O 

O „ 



abo'o bo bO bJ bo bp 
•S 2i .S .S .S .5 .5 



o S o o o o 

n c^ PQ n n cQ 



c e 

IC o 



C N 



o S 
f o 

o 'c bO 
.E « 



»o 



o o 



bo 

£ oi _. .s 

— c o •— 

"5 o "■" 



m Z 



a 

u 



s 



o 
CQ o 



CO 



s 


« 






ra 


c 


d 






^ 


S 


S 






o 




cS 


in 


K 






a> 


a> 


4) 


'? 


> 


c 


c 


> 












sT 




's 


"s 


*Sb 



m C to 

(U ■- 4) 

2 ~ S 



5^ •> ? •> 



O) 0) 

C C 



>, ^ > > 



c/T O, oT oT oT t»r to 



"2 rt 



^ UJ W^ VI tJi 133 Ut vj 

4»o4>a>a)4)i>r 
.S l3 .S .5 .S .S .S 8 -o 



"(3 "cd 



'> ■> 

to ^ 



S^SS s 



■4-) C -u c3 

o o o 53 
Z -a Z ^ 

to J3 to """ 

0) (J O) 

'^ bo.S 

e § 6 
■^. u ■> 

to" t2 to^ 

Cd T^ td 
a; O 0) 

c P c 
.« bo-^ 



_C W 0) 


to 


" c c 


(U 


c 


bo •-" '" 




c S S 


a 


3 td td 


td 


O -w ■(-> 


■tj 


>> >•? 


•? 


b « - 


^ 


O to to 


n> 




<-H 


'*' "cd "id 


cd 


tJ I- i- 


u 


o <u <u 


V 


o c c 


c 


^ii 




i 



a> 






•Si 1^ S S 

O O 4) 4) 

o q u 1- 

Oi Oi O O 



d d 

b u 3 

O O « »5 



^ 



^ 



•o d ^ 

|-o -S-S ^ a 

j3 S 2 to- to- -V 

Cd M G 4_> 4_> .^J 

O. (d cd 4) V 4) 

to 41 4> 4> 4) 4> 

< CQ CQ CQ CQ PQ 



t/T to" o 
rt cd cd 4* 

uuuu 





cd 






d 


"q, 


u 


bo 


o 


bO 


U 


U 



j2 ->; 

to jiL "S .S* 

d 4) "IS d 

.2 1;5^ 2 
d >> cd 
O O O. 



I 



1 1 



0) - 

" "S 



05 



l-H U 



c ^ 

I o i 
w bo 

.S c 
CQ M 



id 

•s 

.S -Q 

rs (u ' 
o u 
m < 



.o 



o .5 

UD O 

rr 

ft N 

bfi bfi 
d .C 
lid b 

pa OQ 






^ Si 

0) "O 



M^ 



^ .:§ 



M 6 E v« 



c o 
o ^ 



;= 2 a^ 



5 ^ 



Xfi 



O C -M 

rt o ^ 



a 

a 

bo 
'S 



1 




of 




<4 






1! 








a 'S 

c 2 § 




8 

c 


« l^ 




a 




'a^-^ 




*a 


:^.^ « 




tT 




B u 6, 




5 


^ > .a 




^ 


S 


TO"' 




•? 


Food 
[inerals, 
arch, m 


8 

c 

'a 




"a 


inerals, 
3t good 
inerals. 


S 

c 

a 




S C/l 




a 




S^IS 




S 


Class 

Green 

Tuber 




1 




Root 
Green 




1 



a 



c 

*a 




a 

*a 


rt 


!:< 


Oj 


•M 


0) 


■w 


T 


■<-> 


*> 


of 


^ 


of 


"2 

c 




1 



:^J3s 



a 



I 



t< 






03 ^ 



^ 



Pi 





•s 


a 
a 


^^ 


O 

4<>> 


rt 


3 


2 3 


rt 


.3 


3 
CO 


03 -3 


a 


"s* 


cr 




o 


CO 


(/) 




(O 


H 



•a 

u 

3 



152 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

water as all know well who have enjoyed a juicy Bart- 
lett pear on a hot summer day. They also are a means 
of introducing salts and organic acids into the diet 
which improve the quality of the blood and react 
favorably upon the secretions. Certain fruits are used 
to prevent scurvy, such as apples, lemons, oranges, and 
limes, while others have a definite medicinal effect, as 
diuretics and laxatives. They are particularly valuable 
as stimulants to the appetite, to improve the digestion, 
and to give variety to the diet. Unripe or overripe fruit 
has a poisoning effect upon the digestive tract since 
it irritates the intestines. Cooking tends to soften the 
woody fiber, cooks whatever starch may be present, 
and changes the pectin or jelly-forming substance into 
its gelatinous form. Much the same effect is produced 
in the ripening process; the fruit becomes less acid, the 
starch present turns to sugar and the pectin becomes 
pectose, a form of carbohydrate. For this reason fruit 
for jelly-making should be taken before it is fully ripe. 
Fruit juices which do not contain much jellying 
property in themselves may be used for making jelly 
. by the addition of pure pectin prepared 

from orange skin in the following way. 
Take the white part of orange skin and grind it in a 
meat-chopper. To one cup of this pulp add the juice of 
one lemon. Let it stand for one hour. Add two cups of 
water, boil five minutes. Let it stand overnight. In the 
morning add four cups of water, boil ten minutes, 
strain, and bottle. If it is to be kept for some time, it 
should be sterilized before bottling. It is possible to 
make two and even three extractions from the original 
pulp although each succeeding one will be less strong. 
When using this pectin, an equal amount of fruit juice 



FRUITS AND VEGETABLES 153 

and the pectin extract should be taken and half as 
much sugar again as the total quantity of juice and 
pectin. 

In order to find out if the fruit juice contains pectin, 
one teaspoonful of the juice may be mixed with one 
teaspoonful of alcohol. If a heavy mass is formed there 
is sufficient pectin present in the juice to form a jelly 
when used with an equal quantity of sugar. If it forms 
only a thin mass, only two thirds or three quarters as 
much sugar as juice can be used. And if it forms no 
mass at all, the pectin extract will have to be used. 

VEGETABLE RECIPES 
TOMATO SOUP 

{To be made in guantity and canned) 
7 quarts ripe tomatoes 3 onions 

7 stalks celery, tops and all 1/2 pound butter 
7 cloves 7 tablespoons flour 

1 large pepper with seeds 7 tablespoons sugar 

2 bay leaves 7 teaspoons salt 

3 sprigs parsley 

Cook the vegetables and seasonings together one half 
hour. Strain, and add the butter and flour well mixed 
together, sugar, and salt. 

VEGETABLE SOUP 

I pound meat 3 potatoes 

1/2 cup carrots i cup tomatoes 

I onion 3 tablespoons rice 
Salt and pepper 

Wash the meat, cut in small pieces, and let it soak in 5 cups 
cold water for i hour. Cook in the same water, adding more 
as necessary. When the meat is partly cooked add the vege- 



154 POOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

tables cut in small pieces and the rice, and cook until tender. 
Add the seasoning. Any vegetable may be substituted. If 
the vegetables have been cooked do not add until the meat 
is tender. 

POTATO SOUP 

3 tablespoons fat 2 cups water 

2 cups milk Pepper 

1 teaspoon salt 3 mashed potatoes 

2 tablespoons cornstarch 

Combine in given order. Rub through sieve before serving. 

VEGETABLE CHOWDER 

To above soup add 2 cups cooked potato cubes instead 
of mashed potatoes, also 1/2 cup cooked carrot cubes, 1/2 
cup cooked celery cut in small pieces, and 1/2 small chopped 
onion. Season to taste. 

MASHED POTATOES — COMPANY STYLE 

Cook in salted water and mash thoroughly. Season with 
2 tablespoons butter, 1/3 cup milk, i teaspoon salt, pepper, 
and chopped parsley to each quart of potato. Put through 
potato-ricer into baking-dish. Reheat and brown slightly in 
hot oven. Half may be riced into dish and half put on with 
pastry bag and tube. Left-over potatoes may be used. 

CHAMB^RY POTATOES 

Pare and slice thinly raw potatoes. Put in shallow baking- 
dish with seasonings, salt, pepper, onion juice, and butter. 
Bake in hot oven till all are soft and top layer is slightly 
browned and crisped ; about 45 minutes. 

KENTUCKY POTATOES 

Prepare as in above recipe, adding milk to practically 
cover the potatoes. Bake in covered dish one hour and 



FRUITS AND VEGETABLES 155 

without cover for 15 to 20 minutes. One chopped pepper 
may be added. 

STUFFED BAKED POTATOES 

Bake large potatoes till soft. Cut in halves lengthwise and 
remove centers, using spoon. Mash centers with fork, season 
well, and combine with one tablespoon chopped meat or 
flaked fish to each potato or 2 teaspoons grated cheese or 
chopped nuts. Refill, packing in roughly. Reheat and brown 
in hot oven. 

DELMONICO POTATOES 

3 tablespoons melted fat 2 tablespoons cornstarch 

2 cups milk I 1/2 teaspoons salt 
Pepper 2 cups cooked potato cubes 

1/2 cup grated cheese Crumbs if desired 

Make milk sauce of first ingredients. Arrange in baking- 
dish, with crumbs on top if used. 

MOTHER'S SCALLOPED POTATOES 

5 large potatoes 2 tablespoons flour 

1/2 cup hot water Salt and pepper to taste 

4 tablespoons butter i 

Pare the potatoes and slice thin crosswise. In a baking- 
dish put a layer of potatoes, then one of small bits of butter, 
the seasonings, and a sprinkle of flour. So continue until 
potatoes are used. Let the last layer be of butter and sprinkle 
of flour. Moisten well with hot water. Bake in a hot oven 
30 to 40 minutes. 

VEGETABLE HASH 

2 cups potatoes (cooked) 2 onions (chopped fine) 

I cup dried beans (cooked) 4 tablespoons fat 
I cup carrots (cooked) 
Any other cooked vegetables may be added. 



156 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

Cut the vegetables in small pieces, then mix them. Season 
them with salt and pepper and moisten with a little water. 
Melt the fat in the frying-pan, add the hash, and spread 
evenly. Cover the pan and place where the hash will not 
burn. When cooked about twenty minutes fold and turn on 
a hot plate. The hash should have a brown crust. 

CREAMED EGGS AND POTATO 

In small baking-dishes place layer of cooked spinach, next, 
layer of hard-cooked eggs, in cream or milk sauce and third, 
layer of well-seasoned mashed potato to cover. Brown in 
hot oven. 

POTATOES GOLDENROD 

2 tablespoons cooking oil i tablespoon cornstarch 

1 cup milk I teaspoon salt 

Pepper I cup potato cubes (cooked) 

2 egg-whites (hard-cooked) 2 egg-yolks (hard-cooked) 

Prepare milk sauce, add potato and whites, cut in small 
pieces. Put into serving-dish and add hard-cooked yolks, 
putting through bowl sieve. 

BAKED CHEESE AND PIMENTO POTATO 

Slice I I /2 quarts potatoes and boil in salted water until 
just done. Put in baking-dish and season with onion, chopped 
pimentos, pepper, and salt. Cover with cheese sauce, and 
bake about 20 minutes. 

CORN AND POTATO LOAF 

2 cups corn 2 teaspoons salt 

4 mashed potatoes i egg 

2 tablespoons drippings Onion juice 

Bake 30 minutes and serve with milk sauce. 



FRUITS AND VEGETABLES 157 

ASPARAGUS LOAF 

2 tablespoons butter or other fat 
2 tablespoons flour 
1/2 teaspoon salt 
Dash pepper 

1 cup cream 

2 tablespoons chicken chopped fine 
I cup cooked asparagus tips 

4 eggs 

Melt the butter, stir in the flour and seasonings, add the 
cream, and let come to the boiling point. When boiling add 
the cold chicken, the asparagus tips, and the eggs well 
beaten, whites and yolks together. Turn into an earthen 
bowl or mold, thickly buttered and lined with asparagus. 
Cook standing in a pan of hot water until center is firm. Do 
not allow the water around the mold to boil. Let it stand a 
few minutes after removing from the oven, and invert over 
the serving-dish. Serve with cream sauce. Asparagus tips 
and a few well-chopped mushrooms are an improvement 
to the flavor of the sauce. 

CABBAGE AND RICE 

I small head of cabbage 2 tablespoons flour 

I 1/2 cups cooked rice 1/2 cup nut butter 

1/2 teaspoon salt I 1/2 pints milk 

Cut cabbage in i-inch pieces, removing all hard stalks. 
Put on to boil, adding salt, and cook until soft. Have the 
rice ready which has been boiled in salted water. Make a 
cream sauce of the butter, flour, and milk. Drain the cab- 
bage and the rice, put in buttered baking-dish in alternate 
layers with cream sauce until the dish is filled, having the 
last layer sauce. Bake 15 or 20 minutes, and serve. 



158 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

CAULIFLOWER A LA HOLLANDAISE 

Remove leaves, cut off stalk, and soak 30 minutes (head 
down) in cold water to cover. Cook (head up) 20 minutes or 
until soft in boiling salted water. Drain and serve with 
HoUandaise sauce. 

HOLLANDAISE SAUCE 

2 teaspoons butter Cayenne 

2 teaspoons flour 3/4 cup milk 

I teaspoon salt 

Cook as white sauce 

Pour hot mixture over the beaten yolks of 2 eggs. Return 
to double boiler and cook like custard. Remove from fire 
and add 2 tablespoons butter and 2 teaspoons lemon juice. 

CELERY RAMEKINS 

I cup milk 6 tablespoons grated celery root 

1 cup bread crumbs 1/4 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons fat 2 eggs 

Heat milk, add bread crumbs and grated celery root. Let 
it come to a boil. Add butter, and most of the salt. Beat 
whites and yolks of eggs separately, adding rest of salt to 
whites. Add the mixture to the yolks. Cut and fold in the 
whites. Put in ramekins and bake 20 to 30 minutes in slow 
oven, browning before taking out. 

CORN OYSTERS 

Grate raw corn from cobs or chop canned corn, adding a 
little milk. To one cup pulp add one well-beaten egg, 1/4 cup 
flour, and season highly with salt and pepper. Drop by spoon- 
fuls and fry in deep fat, or cook on a hot, well-greased griddle. 
They should be made about the size of large oysters. 



FRUITS AND VEGETABLES 159 

CORN PUDDING FROM FRESH CORN 

I dozen ears corn, grated 
I cup milk 
I teaspoon sugar 
I /4 teaspoon salt or more to taste 

Bake in buttered pudding-dish i hour. 

CREOLE CORN FRITTERS 

I dozen ears corn, grated 4 to 6 tablespoons flour 

I egg, beaten Salt and pepper to taste 

Mix all together. Fry in beef drippings, oil, or bacon fat, 
dropping the mixture from the end of a spoon, browning it 
and turning it like cakes. 

BAKED RIPE CUCUMBER 

Cut cucumbers in two lengthwise, discard seeds, etc., par- 
boil in hot water until tender. Fill center and heap up with 
moist crumbs seasoned with butter, salt, pepper, and onion 
juice. Bake 20 to 30 minutes in moderate oven. 

SCALLOPED EGGPLANT 

I eggplant 2 tablespoons butter 

I tablespoon lemon juice Salt and pepper 

I tablespoon chopped or Buttered crumbs for top 
grated onion 

Peel and cut into inch cubes. Cover with boiling water 
and cook slowly for 10 or 15 minutes. Drain in colander. 
Fry the onion in the butter, add all the other ingredients and 
eggplant. In a buttered baking-dish place layers of egg- 
plant and white sauce, cover with buttered crumbs and 
bake from 20 to 30 minutes. 

FRIED EGGPLANT 

Pare and cut in slices about 1/3 of an inch thick. Dip in 
beaten egg and then in seasoned bread crumbs. Brown on 



i6o FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

both sides in a little hot fat in frying-pan (olive oil preferred) 
or fry in deep fat. Drain on paper and serve. 

STUFFED EGGPLANT 

Put eggplant, whole, into boiling water, boil 20 to 30 
minutes, or until tender. Cut it in two and scoop out the 
center leaving a wall 1/2 inch thick. Mash or chop the 
center, mix with it 

1/2 cup bread crumbs 1/2 tablespoon chopped 

1/4 to 1/2 cup nuts chopped parsley 

1/2 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon summer sa- 

Pepper vory 

I teaspoon onion juice 

Stuff the eggplant, heaping it up on top. Bake this in 
moderate oven about i hour, bcisting once or twice with 
melted butter. 

PEA souffle' 

4 tablespoons flour 3 eggs 

4 tablespoons fat i teaspoon salt 

I cup skimmed milk 1/4 teaspoon pepper 

I cup mashed cooked peas Few drops onion juice 

Make a sauce of the flour, fat, and milk. Mash the cooked 
peas to a pulp. Beat the whites and yolks of eggs separately. 
Mix the pulp, seasonings, sauce, and well-beaten yolks. Fold 
in stiffly beaten whites, and bake in a slow oven until firm. 

MOLD OF PEAS OR BEANS 

I pound green or wax i cup milk 

beans or peas 3 eggs 
1/4 onion Grated cheese 

Sprig parsley 2 tablespoons butterine, or oil 
I tablespoon flour 

String the beans and blanch them by throwing them into 



FRUITS AND VEGETABLES i6i 

boiling water. As soon as the water has boiled again, drain 
the beans and throw them into cold water. Fry the finely 
chopped onion, parsley, and celery in l tablespoon of oil, 
add the beans when the onion is golden-colored, letting the 
beans absorb the oil. Add just enough water to keep beans 
from burning, and let simmer until tender. Make a white 
sauce of the milk, flour, and fat. Beat the eggs; let the beans 
and sauce cool. Then add the eggs, beans, and a few table- 
spoons of grated cheese to the white sauce. Pour into a but- 
tered mold, bake like a custard in a pan of water until f rm, 
and serve hot. 

STUFFED AND BAKED GREEN PEPPERS 

Cut the stem ends from 6 green peppers. Remove seeds 
and pith and parboil in hot water. Stew i cup tomatoes, 
I slice onion, i bay leaf, 3 peppercorns, 1/2 tablespoon 
sugar, 1/2 teaspoon salt for 15 minutes. Strain and mix with 
Q cups boiled rice. Stuff peppers with this mixture, place 
upright in pan, and place tops on peppers. Pour around them 
I 1/2 cups of tomato sauce and baste with it several times 
while baking. Bake 20 to 30 minutes in moderate oven. 

MOLD OF SPINACH 

I cup milk 2 cups boiled spinach 

I tablespoon butterine 3 eggs 

I tablespoon flour Brown stock 

Grated cheese Salt and pepper 

Make a smooth white sauce of the milk, butter, and flour, 
letting it cook until it is thick, then add the cooked spinach, 
a few tablespoons of grated cheese, the eggs beaten, a few 
tablespoons of brown stock (or a bouillon cube dissolved in 
hot water), and salt. Mix thoroughly and pour into a but- 
tered mold. Steam as a custard until firm, and serve either 
as it is or with tomato sauce. 



162 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

SQUASH SOUFFLE 

2 cups mashed and seasoned squash 

1 cup milk 

2 eggs 

Add the milk to the well-seasoned squash, gradually. 
When thoroughly blended, add the yolks of the eggs beaten 
until thick. Fold in the whites beaten until stiff and dry. 
Turn into a buttered dish and bake in a slow oven until firm. 

BAKED TOMATOES 

Wipe and remove a thin slice from stem end of 6 smooth 
medium-sized tomatoes. Take out seeds and pulp and drain 
off most of the liquid. Add equal quantities of cracker or 
bread crumbs, season with salt, pepper, and sugar, or a few 
drops of onion juice, and refill tomatoes with mixture. Place 
in a buttered pan, sprinkle with buttered crumbs and bake 
CO minutes in a hot oven. 

FRIED TOMATOES WITH CREAM DRESSING 

Cut tomatoes, either green or ripe, in thick slices. Melt 
fat in frying-pan with i teaspoon salt. When slightly 
brown, fry the slices of tomato until tender. Put onto 
platter and pour following sauce over them. 

Sauce 

Heat l/2 pint cream in double boiler. Pour onto slightly 
beaten egg. Pour cream and egg into fat left in frying-pan. 
Cook until it thickens, stirring constantly. 

SCALLOPED GREEN TOMATOES 

Put in a baking-dish a layer of stale but not dried bread 
crumbs. Add a little salt, a little white pepper, and a number 
of small pieces of butter. Score an onion and sprinkle part 
of it over the crumbs. On this put a layer of sliced green 



FRUITS AND VEGETABLES 163 

tomatoes. Add more salt, more pepper, a little more onion, 
and 3 or 4 generous tablespoons of granulated sugar. Then 
add another layer of bread crumbs, with salt, pepper, butter, 
and a little onion. Repeat the alternate layers of tomatoes 
and bread crumbs until the dish is heaped high, as it cooks 
down a good deal. Put some bread crumbs on top. Put a 
pie plate on top to press the fruit down and bake slowly for 
at least an hour. When the juice begins to ooze out, take 
off the cover and let it brown. A little tarragon is a good 
addition. 



CHAPTER XI 
FATS 

Fats are similar to carbohydrates in their general com- 
position since they are made up of carbon, hydrogen, 
and oxygen, but these latter are not in the proportion 
to form water. There is a relatively small amount of 
oxygen in fat which causes a large amount of heat to be 
evolved in combustion. For this reason, fats are the 
chief source of heat and energy in the body. They also 
serve as a covering and protection for the body. They 
act as lubricants and spsire the tissues from disintegra- 
tion. They may also serve as a means of storing surplus 
energy. A person whose body is well protected by a 
good coating of fat is far less liable to be irritated by 
external nerve stimuli, such as the slamming of doors or 
the shouts of children, than one whose nerve ends are 
not so well padded. 

All fats have a tendency to slow down the whole 
process of digestion while those having a lower melting 
. point are more completely digested than 

those remaining solid at higher tempera- 
tures. Any discomfort due to the use of fat is caused by 
improper use or wrong cooking. When too large a quan- 
tity is taken at a time, it prevents the action of the 
digestive secretions on other foods, particularly those 
containing protein material. For this reason rich pastry 
and foods fried in fat should never be given to children 
nor invalids. If fats are overheated, they are partially 
split up, and produce substances which are irritating to 



FATS 165 

the mucous membrane lining the intestinal tract. It is 
the same effect that is produced by the blue smoke 
which sometimes comes from the frying-pan when the 
fat is allowed to get too hot, and which causes the eyes 
and nose to water. 

The quantity of fat used in this country is far higher 
than the European consumption and much higher than 
the individual requires. It has been com- Need to 
puted that the waste of fat in America is ^^® ^^*^ 
excessive. We should use only enough to make the food 
palatable and not allow any to go into the garbage pail 
nor down into the kitchen drain. Mr. Hoover, in his 
speech on November 11, 1918, in Washington, before 
the workers of the Food Administration, said that 
there was a great shortage in the supplies needed by 
the whole world, particularly in dairy products, pork 
products, and vegetable oils. He said that the world 
would be deficient in fats for two or three years at least 
and that intense economy in the use of fats in this 
country was absolutely necessary. Nine months after 
the signing of the armistice, the people of England were 
still on their extremely low ration of fats with small 
prospect of immediate relief. This was a half-pound of 
butter and a pound of oleomargarine per person per 
month, whereas we use in this country an average of a 
quarter of a pound per person per day not including 
waste. 

All fats are very similar chemically since they are 
combinations of glycerine and fatty acids. Each fat is 
made up of two or more of such combina- Natxire of 
tions formed from fatty acids. These are ^^^^ 
steps in a long chemical series. Those which contain 
certain steps of the series are solid at ordinary temper- 



1 66 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

ature, while those that contain others in the series are 
oils. Difference in flavor or color is due to impurities, 
since a pure fat is pale yellow or colorless when liquid, 
and white when solid. Because they vary so little in 
their composition, the ones to be used in the household 
are those which keep the best under ordinary condi- 
tions and are best suited to the purposes for which they 
are intended. 

Fat occurs in the diet in two distinct ways. It may 
either be a component part of the food itself as in milk, 
meat, and certain types of fish. Or it may 
be added to other foods in cooking and 
serving as butter, salad oils, and lard. Both of these 
groups should be considered by the housekeeper. The 
first group is regulated by a choice of the foods them- 
selves. Care should be taken to combine a food that is 
in itself rich in fat, as cheese or shad, with foods that 
do not contain much fat ; or else other fats should not 
be served at the same meal. One would not think of 
serving tartare sauce with mackerel or shad though this 
is almost a necessity with smelts or filet of flounder. 
Nor would one desire a rich dessert like a suet pudding 
or heavy ice-cream after roast pork, or even a salad 
with mayonnaise dressing. Too often are we served 
meals in which there is a dash of whipped cream on the 
soup, a tartare sauce with the fish, a rich gravy with the 
meat, mayonnaise with the salad, and ice-cream or 
whipped cream for dessert. 

When we come to the second group of fats, those 
which are added to the foods in cooking or serving, we 
find there is a large region of choice and plenty of 
room for economy. These fats can be considered In 
two groups ; those that are served at the table, such as 



FATS 167 

butter and salad oils, and those that are used in the 

kitchen either as a medium for cooking as in frying 

or sauteing, or are added to foods as shortening. In 

order to save fats at the table, as small a quantity as 

possible should be served at a time. Butter 

. . Table fats 

is too costly to be used for cooking in the 

ordinary household, and yet any pieces that are left on 
the bread and butter plates at the table cannot be used 
in any other way. The question of salad oil depends 
upon the tastes of the family. There are those who 
feel that they would prefer to have olive oil for their 
salads even though it means going without some other 
food. Cottonseed oil and corn oil such as are found on the 
market to-day both make very satisfactory salad dress- 
ings and are much less expensive than the olive oil. 

There are innumerable fats which can be used in 
cooking, although every housekeeper has her own fa- 
vorite. Some of these are of animal origin p ,. . 
and some of vegetable. Aside from the 
dairy fats, butter and cream, which are nowadays used 
almost exclusively at the table and not for cooking, 
lard is perhaps the most popular of the animal fats. 
Leaf lard is rendered from the fat around the kidneys 
of hogs. It has a moderately low melting . 
point and therefore is easily handled as a 
shortening. It should be white in color and free from 
taste or smell. Beef fat or suet is harder than butter or 
lard and is somewhat highly flavored. The flavor can 
be improved by rendering and the fat itself made softer 
by mixing it with oil or lard. Mutton fat is another hard 
fat and because of its strong flavor is used more for 
soap-making than as a household fat. The fat of poul- 
try y either /(ow/ or goose, resembles butter and lard in its 



I68 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

consistency and can be well used as shortening in such 
breadstuffs as gingerbread and pie crust where the 
color will not be noticeable. 

There has been much discussion as to the advisabil- 
ity of the use of oleomargarine for a cooking fat. It is a 
Oleomar- perfectly wholesome, pure fat when made 
garine under the best conditions in the large 

packing-houses. It is a mixture of other fats in an at- 
tempt to obtain a fat with the consistency of butter at 
a lower price. The basis for oleomargarine is a soft beef 
fat which is mixed with neutral lard, cottonseed, and 
other oils. The mixture is finally churned with milk or 
cream, salted, and worked like butter. Under the law, 
any fat that contains other substances than pure butter 
fat, no matter in how small a quantity, is classed as 
oleomargarine and is taxed accordingly. The colored 
oleomargarine carries a higher tax than that which is 
left colorless, so that it is cheaper to buy the colorless 
and if desired, color it at home. 

Fats are now being extracted from many oil-bearing 
seeds and fruits. They must be purified to get rid of 
disagreeable flavors, dirt, and any harm- 
ful matter which they may contain. The 
seeds are cleaned and subjected to hydraulic pressure. If 
hot-pressed, the oil extracted must be refined. Olive oil 
has always been the favorite but will undoubtedly re- 
main high-priced as the olive orchards in Italy were cut 
down to a large extent during the war for fuel for the 
munition factories, and it takes many, many years to 
grow olive trees. Cottonseed oil has been on the market 
for many years and is the basis for a wide variety of 
fats and salad oils. There is little choice between this 
and corn oils although some prefer one and some the 



FATS 169 

other. Peanut oil has been used extensively in Europe 
both for a table oil and for cooking. It is usually pro- 
duced by the cold-press method so that the character- 
istic flavor is not noticeable. Cocoanut oil and other 
palm oils are used in cooking, especially by bakeries. 
With the great shortage of fats, oils have been ex- 
tracted from other seeds, the soy bean, sunflower, and 
sesame, and from nuts, also from the pits of apricots, 
peaches, and cherries. 

In recent months there have been a number of color- 
less fats on the market under different trade names 
known as nut butters or nut margarines. All of these 
are probably vegetable oils hardened into a solid by 
the addition of hydrogen. By this means an oil may be 
made into a product of any desired hardness. These are 
not to be confused with the real nut butter which is 
prepared by the grinding of the entire nut, as peanut 
butter or almond paste. 

As we have already noticed, the "vitamine" sub- 
stance known as "fat-soluble A" is not present in 
oils extracted from vegetables and nuts puce in 
whereas it is present in butter and to a t^ediet 
less degree in animal fats. If then the diet is very much 
limited in the use of green vegetables, fruit, and milk, 
there might be a dangerous lack of this element essen- 
tial for growth if these so-called nut butters were used 
exclusively by the family. This is not of so great im- 
portance with adults as it is with growing children. 
If the children are getting at least a pint and a half 
of whole milk a day and a green vegetable at least 
once a day, the difference in the fats might safely be 
ignored. 

There are a few general rules which can be followed 



170 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

in every household in order to avoid waste of fats, al- 
Rules to avoid though of course actual practice must vary 
waste of fats according to the conditions in different 
homes. In cooking, an attempt should be made to ob- 
tain the best quality and flavor with a minimum quan- 
tity of fat. No more fat should ever be used than the 
recipe calls for. An over-use of fatty foods should be 
avoided, especially an over-use of those foods that are 
cooked in fat. If fats are used for sauteing, those which 
burn less easily are the ones to be chosen. No fat should 
be bought for cooking so long as there is fat in the house 
that can be utilized for that purpose. This fat can be 
obtained from the meat which comes into the house, 
either as trimmings or from the drippings in the roast- 
ing-pan. By the way, it is well to demand from the 
Rendering butcher the trimmings of the piece of meat 
of fat for which we have paid and which he care- 

fully removes as being unsightly after he has weighed 
the piece. The fat from these can be tried out or ren- 
dered at home in the following manner. They can be 
cut fine with the meat-chopper or a knife and heated 
for several hours in the top of the double boiler very 
slowly until completely melted. The water underneath 
should only be lukewarm as otherwise it hardens the 
connective tissue and prevents the fat from melting 
out. It should then be strained through thick cloth and 
put away for further use. If it has a slight odor or 
flavor which it is desirable to remove, it may be heated 
with milk, two pounds of fat to half a pint of milk, 
strained and cooled. If it is a very hard fat, such as 
beef or mutton suet, it can be softened and made a 
better consistency for shortening by adding lard, two 
parts of beef suet and one part of lard, or mixed 



FATS 171 

with cottonseed oil, three parts of suet and one part 
of oil. 

In order to prevent the fats thus prepared from be- 
coming rancid, they should be protected from light, 
heat, and air. The fats should be kept 
tightly covered in a cool dark place. 

Home-rendered fats may be flavored in different 
ways and kept separately to be used in serving 
warmed-over potatoes and different kinds of vegeta- 
bles. These savory fats may also be used in the thicken- 
ing for gravies. 

SAVORY FATS 

I. I pound unrendered fat i teaspoon salt 

I slice onion 1/8 teaspoon pepper 

1 teaspoon broken bay-leaves 

Spices are added during the rendering of the fat. 

II. I pound unrendered fat I teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons thyme 1/8 teaspoon pepper 
I slice onion 

Spices are added during the rendering of the fat. 

III. I pound unrendered fat 1/2 teaspoon sage 
I teaspoon thyme i teaspoon salt 

I teaspoon marjoram 1/8 teaspoon pepper 

Spices are added during the rendering of the fat. 

IV. I pound rendered fat I onion 

I sour apple i teaspoon ground thyme, or other 

sweet herbs, tied in a cloth 

Add flavors to fat and cook until apple is well browned. 
Strain though cheesecloth. 



172 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

SALAD DRESSINGS 
BOILED DKESSmG 

1/2 tablespoon salt Yolks 2 eggs 

1 teaspoon mustard I 1/2 tablespoons melted fat 
I 1/2 tablespoons sugar 3/4 cup milk 

Few grains cayenne 1/4 cup vinegar 
1/2 tablespoon flour 

Melt the butter. Add the dry ingredients mixed together. 
Add the milk and stir till it boils. Pour this over the yolks 
of the eggs slightly beaten, and return to the fire until it 
thickens. Add the vinegar hot very slowly. Strain and cool. 

FRENCH DRESSING 

I tablespoon vinegar 1/8 teaspoon pepper 

3 tablespoons olive oil 1/4 teaspoon salt 

1/4 teaspoon onion juice 

Put the vinegar in a cold or iced cup and add the salt, 
pepper, and onion juice. Then add gradually — stirring 
meantime — the olive oil. 

CALIFORNIA MAYONNAISE 
With Com Oil, Mazola, or any other Oil 

4 tablespoons flour i cup water 

2 tablespoons oil 21/2 teaspoons salt 
41/2 tablespoons vinegar or 1/8 teaspoon cayenne 

other acid 

Bring to boiling point and boil 5 minutes. Cool, add i egg 
slightly beaten, then i cup corn oil gradually, beating well 
while oil is being taken up. 

Makes one and one half pints. 



FATS 173 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING 

Q egg-yolks i teaspoon mustard 

I 1/2 to 2 cups olive oil I teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons vinegar 1/16 teaspoon paprika 
2 tablespoons lemon juice 

Beat the yolk of the egg, add the cold oil drop by drop, 
beating continually, until thick, then add vinegar and lemon 
juice until thin. Again add oil until thick, and thin as before. 
Repeat this operation until the oil has been added and 
dressing is thick. Mix together the mustard, salt, and pepper, 
and stir into the oil and egg. Whipped cream may be added 
just before serving. 

If the dressing is to be made on a warm day or in a very 
warm room, have the ingredients and utensils ice cold. 
While making the dressing have the bowl surrounded by 
ice water. 

CREAM SALAD DRESSING 

Individual recipe Large recipe 

1/8 teaspoon dry mustard i teaspoon 

1/4 teaspoon salt 2 teaspoons 

Speck cayenne 1/16 teaspoon 

I teaspoon sugar 2 to 4 tablespoons 

I rounding tablespoon egg 3 whole or 7 yolks (1/2 cup) 

1 tablespoon hot vinegar 1/2 cup 

2 tablespoons cream, I cup 

sweet or sour 
3/4 teaspoon butter 2 tablespoons 

Mix the dry ingredients, add the egg, hot vinegar, and 
cream in order given. Put mixture in a double boiler and 
stir constantly until thick ; any slight curdling may be made 
smooth by the use of the Dover egg-beater. To stop further 
cooking put the saucepan in cold waterc Stir the butter 
into the dressing just as it comes from the fire. 



174 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

BOILED DRESSING FOR FRXHT SALAD 

Juice I lemon 1/4 cup sugar 

Juice I orange i egg, well beaten 

1/2 teaspoon salt 

Boil over water just a few minutes. When cold add an 
equal amount of whipped cream. 

RUSSIAN SALAD DRESSING 

3 tablespoons mayonnaise 
2 teaspoons tarragon vinegar 

2 teaspoons horse-radish 

I teaspoon powdered sugar 
Salt, paprika, and pepper to taste 

Add 3 or 4 tablespoons of whipped cream. Mix thoroughly, 
then add 3 or 4 tablespoons of chili sauce and mix all well 
together once more. 

VEGETABLE SALADS 
HOT CABBAGE SALAD 

1 small head cabbage, shredded 

3 or 4 tabascos, cut fine 
3 hard-boiled eggs 

3 tablespoons capers or washed currants 

2 tablespoons sugar 
I level teaspoon salt 
I head lettuce 

Shred the cabbage fine and even. Place in a large bowl 
and stir in the tabascos, sugar, and salt, and allow it to stand 
in a cool place for 30 minutes. At serving time make a 
dressing of the following: 

2 rounding tablespoons butter i pint rich, sweet milk 

3 level tablespoons flour 1/2 cup vinegar 



FATS 175 

Melt the butter, fold or braid in the flour and cook until 
quite thick, stirring constantly. Add the vinegar slowly. 

At serving time pour the hot dressing over the cabbage, 
place in a salad bowl on a bed of lettuce. Have the hard- 
boiled eggs cut as for egg vases, with scalloped edges. Bed 
them in the salad and fill them with the capers or currants. 
Garnish the edges with radishes cut into roses. 

PEA SALAD 

I can small peas i /2 cup English walnuts, cut 

I scant pint mayonnaise fine 

1/2 cup almonds, cut fine 1/4 cup currants 

Drain the liquor from the peas, and allow them to stand 
in a colander some six hours. Blanch the nuts and cut them 
fine. Toss peas and nuts together, fold in the dressing, place 
in a chilled salad bowl, in pyramid form. Garnish with thick 
dressing and currants. 

POTATO SALAD 

3 cups cooked potato cubes i cooked carrot, grated 
I cooked beet, grated 1/2 uncooked onion, chopped 

Serve on lettuce leaves with French dressing. 

CARROT AND GREEN PEPPER SALAD 

Cut cold cooked carrot into thin strips about 3 inches 
long. Place the strips through rings of green pepper made 
by cutting the peppers crosswise. Season with salt, pepper, 
and a little onion juice. Arrange on beds of fresh, crisp let- 
tuce leaves. Serve with mayonnaise or a boiled dressing. 

GREEN BEAN AND PICKLED BEET SALAD 

Marinate cold cooked string beans in French dressing. 
Arrange them on a platter on lettuce in a hollow square, 
interlacing them at the corners like logs for a log cabin. 
Fill the center of the square with a mixture of pickled beets 



176 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

and string beans with a very little chopped onion. Serve 
with a salad dressing. 

Other vegetables may be used for filling the center of the 
square, such as green peas, diced tomato, or cucumber. 

TOMATO SALAD JELLY 

2 tablespoons gelatine i clove 

soaked in I teaspoon celery-salt or 

1/2 cup cold water i tablespoon minced celery 

3 cups tomato juice l teaspoon minced parsley 
1/2 teaspoon onion-salt or 2 tablespoons lime or lemon 

I slice onion juice 

Combine the tomato juice with the seasoning and cook 
5 minutes. Add the gelatine, strain, and pour into individual 
molds. When very cold, turn out and serve with mayonnaise 
on cress or lettuce. 

HINDU SALAD 

Shred some crisp white lettuce leaves and arrange them 
upon the salad plates. Arrange 4 thick slices of tomato upon 
the bed of lettuce, and upon 2 slices pile shaved celery. On 
the other 2 slices pile finely cut water cress. Garnish with 
pieces of pimento shaped with fancy cutters. Pour over all 
a plain French dressing before serving. 

FRUIT SALADS 
CHERRY SALAD 

1/2 pound firm large cherries 

1 pound hazelnuts or filberts 

2 or 3 heads of lettuce 

I cup plain lemon mayonnaise 

Stone and remove the stems from the cherries. Shell the 
nuts and place a kernel in the center of each cherry, thus 
preserving their form. Arrange the white heart of the lettuce 



FATS 177 

in shell form, fill with the cherries, and at serving time pour 
over the dressing. 

CUCUMBER AND PINEAPPLE SALAD 

1/2 cup diced cucumber 

1/2 cup canned pineapple, drained and chopped 
2/3 cup pineapple syrup 
1/4 cup vinegar 
1/4 cup sugar 
I tablespoon tarragon vinegar 
I tablespoon lemon juice 
Salt 
I 1/4 tablespoons gelatine dissolved in 
I I /2 cups cold water 
I I /4 cups boiling water 

Dissolve the soaked gelatine in the boiling water. Mix the 
other ingredients, add the gelatine, pour into molds, and 
chill. Serve on lettuce with mayonnaise dressing. 

GINGER ALE SALAD 

3/4 cup diced canned pineapple 
3/4 cup chopped grapefruit pulp 
1/3 cup blanched, shredded almonds 
1/4 cup malaga grapes (if convenient) 
I cup ginger ale 
e tablespoons gelatine 
Few grains salt 
Few grains red pepper 
Lettuce and mayonnaise 

Soak the gelatine for 5 minutes in a half-cupful of tepid 
water, then dissolve it over steam; combine the fruit, nuts, 
salt, and pepper. Stir in the ginger ale, reserving 1/4 cupful 
to mix with the gelatine; then add the latter. Pour into 
individual molds and when stiff serve with lettuce and 
mayonnaise. 



178 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

JAPANESE SALAD 

Take equal quantities of finely cut lettuce, quarters of 
oranges, tomatoes sliced, and slices of pineapple. The whole 
must be thoroughly cold. Season just before serving with 
a dressing of cream, lemon juice, salt, and pepper. 

ORANGE AND GRAPE SALAD 

Wash a head of lettuce, dry thoroughly between cheese- 
cloth. Put on ice. Arrange lettuce in a bowl to form a nest. 
Prepare the oranges by peeling them, and then skinning the 
sections so as to leave each section whole. Remove the seeds 
and skin from white grapes. Arrange the oranges and grapes 
on the lettuce, add nuts, either chopped fine or cut in small 
pieces, and pour a French dressing over all. 

PEACH AND RIPE OLIVE SALAD 

Arrange slices of fresh or canned peaches on beds of let- 
tuce in a circle, points toward the center. Put 4 ripe olives 
in the center of each circle. Serve with mayonnaise or cream 
dressing. 

PEAR SALAD 

Peel and core pears. Stuff with cream cheese and chopped 
nuts. Decorate with strips of pimento, and serve on lettuce 
with Russian or mayonnaise dressing. 

Seedless raisins, chopped dates, or figs, may be substi- 
tuted for the cream cheese and nuts as a stuffing for the 
pears. 

TRANS-MISSISSIPPI EXPOSITION SALAD 

1 cup sifted powdered sugar 18 cherries 
Yolks 4 fresh eggs 6 bananas 

1/2 teaspoon salt 4 oranges 

2 lemons 6 slices pineapple 
18 strawberries I bunch grapes 

Other fruits may be substituted 



FATS 179 

Peel and slice the fruit very thin. Rub the bottom and 
sides of a chilled salad bowl with geranium leaves. Have all 
in readiness before beginning the dressing, as it must not 
stand. 

In a bowl put the yolks of the eggs, and if possible, place 
the bowl on ice. Beat the yolks until very light color and 
quite thick, stirring constantly. Add the sugar and juice of 
lemons. When sugar, yolks, and lemon stand together like 
whipped cream, fill the salad bowl with alternating layers 
of fruit and dressing, the last layer being dressing. 

This may be served with cheese wafers as the first course 
of dinner in summer in place of blue-points. 

HEARTIER SALADS 

CHEESE JELLY SALAD 

1/2 cup grated cheese I cup whipped cream 

I tablespoon gelatine Salt and pepper to taste 

Mix the cheese with whipped cream. Season and add to 
the gelatine dissolved in a scant cup of water. Put in molds. 
When jelly begins to harden, cover with grated cheese. 
Serve on lettuce with a salad dressing. 

COTTAGE CHEESE SALAD 

2 cups cottage cheese i tablespoon chopped onion 

I cup pickled beets, cut up i teaspoon chopped parsley , 

Serve on lettuce leaves with French or mayonnaise 
dressing. 

COTTAGE CHEESE SUPPER SALAD 

I cup chopped liver About i cup mayonnaise dressing 

(cooked) I teaspoon salt 

I cup cottage cheese Dash of onion and celery salt, 
I small can pimento cayenne 

Lettuce Paprika 



i8o FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

Put liver through the food-chopper, add cottage cheese 
and mix well with fork, add seasonings and 2 tablespoons of 
dressing to bind. Arrange lettuce on plates, place half of a 
pimento on the lettuce, add the salad mixture shaped in 
ovals, using 2 teaspoonfuls. Garnish with mayonnaise and 
paprika. 

OYSTER SALAD 

Stew oysters and drain dry. Put on ice until cold, strain, 
cut in pieces. Add an equal quantity of celery. Serve with 
mayonnaise. 



CHAPTER XII 
SUGAR 

Sugar is another type of carbohydrate which, like 
starch, serves only for the production of heat and en- 
ergy in the body and does not build body ,, , , ^ 
.■' r^ . . . . •' Value as food 

tissue, r or this reason it saves protein ma- 
terial for growth and when used intelligently and in 
combination with other foods, is a valuable food for 
growing children. Three to five ounces is sufficient for 
the total amount in all forms consumed in any one day. 
Overeating of candy and other sweet foods should be 
avoided because sugar is completely absorbed in the 
system and if eaten in excess of the needs Danger of 
of the body is stored in the liver. It is improper use 
a single food containing no mineral salts nor "vita- 
mines," and when eaten between meals appeases the 
appetite without supplying the body with any of the 
other materials necessary for health. 

It has been proved that sugar can be utilized in the 
form of energy in the muscles of the body from twenty 
minutes to a half-hour after it is eaten. For this reason 
it is extremely valuable to prevent exhaustion under 
physical stress and can be used to restore over-fatigued 
muscles if other food is not at hand. Its value has long 
been proven by mountain climbers and trampers who 
carry it with them in the compact form of sweet choc- 
olate. The story is told how the Germans utilized this 
physiological fact in the rations given their army. It is 
said that the men were kept on half rations between 



i82 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

drives but during the twenty-four hours just previous 
to an attack, a large quantity of sugar was allotted 
them along with their regular food, in order to provide 
the immediate physical energy required for their 
strenuous exertions. 

No wonder that a child who is allowed to eat ice- 
cream sodas, college ices, or candy freely between 
meals, has no appetite for a good substantial meal 
when the proper time comes, ^ for the body has had a 
sufficient amount of energy-supplying foods but is 
sadly lacking in the variety of foods which it should 
have. 

Sugar has not long been the common article of diet 
that it is to-day. In the time of our grandparents it 
was a luxury only to be had in the form of a very hard 
pyramidal cake which stood on the dining-room side- 
board and was chipped off to be used as we use candy 
to-day. It also could be had in the form of rock crystals 
which were frequently bought on a string. To-day it is 
one of our great food staples and when its production 
and shipment were disturbed during the war, great 
commotion on two continents resulted. 

Most of the sugar in commercial use comes from 
cane or from beets. Before the war France, Belgium, 
and Germany together produced 93 per 
cent of the beet sugar of the world, and 
Germany and Austria alone raised one fourth of the 
total sugar supply of the world. During and since the 
war, beet-sugar production has been greatly stimulated 
in the United States, especially in Utah and Idaho; but 
the difficulty with its production in this country is the 

* Each college ice with a chocolate sauce contains 400-450 calories 
and an ordinary 15 cent cake of sweet chocolate about 400 calories. 



SUGAR 183 

high cost of labor which handicaps it in competition 
with that of the Continent. The largest production of 
cane sugar is in Cuba and Java. The Javan crop was in- 
accessible during the war because of the lack of ship- 
ping facilities, so that it was necessary for us to share 
the Cuban crop with the Allies. This was the reason for 
the shortage particularly along the Atlantic seaboard. 
As it is a crop which could not be immediately in- 
creased under the stimulus of high prices, at the re- 
quest of the Food Administration the wholesale price 
was stabilized by agreement among the dealers and the 
crop was apportioned to the different markets, thus do- 
ing away with competitive bidding. The next step was 
to reduce the amount of sugar consumed by manu- 
facturers and the general public. Even with the re- 
duction asked of us we were yet allowed more sugar 
per person than was the normal consumption by Euro- 
pean peoples before the war, so excessive is our use of 
sugar. 

Chemically there are two groups of sugars; those 
that are known as single sugars, and those that are 
double or complex. There are three double Kinds of 
sugars in common use. Those that are ex- sugars 
tracted from cane, from beet, and from the maple-tree 
are all the same chemical sugar. Their name is sucrose. 
The only difference in these sugars is due to the differ- 
ence in refining. The impurities that are left in each 
give to it its peculiar flavor. Cane sugar is on the mar- 
ket in the forms of coarse brown sugar, light brown 
sugar, confectioner's sugar, powdered, granulated, and 
loaf sugar. Maple sugar, on the other hand, is not re- 
fined, as the maple flavor gives to it its popularity. 

Cane sugar was first known in China and its use 



I84 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

spread slowly westward as a great luxury. Early ex- 

^ plorers brought it from India along with 

Cane sugar . j • . t^t. 

spices and precious stones. Ihe process 

of obtaining the juice from the cane has not greatly 
changed in principle during the centuries, although in 
late years more complicated machinery has been in- 
troduced. The cane is cut and run through a shredding 
machine. The mass of pulp is put under pressure to 
extract the juice. It is washed with water during this 
process, although all the water thus added must even- 
tually be evaporated out. The juice is treated with 
chemicals and boiled in order to throw out all albumi- 
nous matter that it may contain. After this it is filtered 
and evaporated. The heavy syrup is then placed in a 
centrifugal machine to separate the crystals of cane 
sugar from the molasses, which is glucose and which 
does not crystallize. Sugar is shipped in this raw state 
and is refined at different points along the seacoast of 
the United States. In the refining process the sugar 
is remelted, filtered, clarified by charcoal, and again 
evaporated and allowed to crystallize. 

Sugar was first extracted from beets by a German in 
1797. It was not a commercial success, however, until 
1850, when it was found possible to increase the per- 
centage of sugar in beets from 3 to 15 or 16 per cent, 
thus making the complicated process of extraction 
worth while. The beets are cut in very thin slices and 
washed with water to extract the juices; these are 
then evaporated and decolorized by animal charcoal. 
Raw beet sugar is very different from raw cane sugar 
but the products after refining cannot be distin- 
guished one from the other. 

The other two complex sugars are the sugar that is 



SUGAR 185 

found in milk used for modifying cow's milk for in- 
fants, and malt sugar that is formed by the fermenta- 
tion of starch. 

The simple sugars occur widely in nature, being 
found in all fruits either separately or in combination 
Simple sugars with each Other. The most common of 
Glucose these and the one which sometimes gives 

its name to the group as a whole is glucose. This is the 
sugar that is found in grapes as well as in other fruit 
and is frequently seen in small yel ow lumps on the 
outside of old raisins. It is made commercially on a 
large scale by the action of acids on starch. It is not so 
sweet as cane sugar and does not crystallize, so that it 
is used in the manufacture of syrups and some candy 
as a much cheaper but harmless substitute for cane 
sugar. Corn syrups which were put on the market as 
substitutes for sugar are largely glucose; hence in order 
to get the same quality of sweetness in the finished 
product, it is necessary to use half as much again of 
the syrup as of the sugar required. 

Another simple sugar is known as fruit sugar. It is 
found in most fruits, but is not of commercial value. It 
is two and a half times sweeter than cane 
or beet sugar and is what gives to fruit its ""* ^^^^^ 
fuel value, even though the fruit may be very acid to 
the taste. A combination of glucose and fruit sugar 
occurring in an intimate mixture is known as invert 
sugar because it is made from cane sugar by inversion; 
that is, by boiling with acids or by fermentation. 
Honey is practically pure natural invert sugar. These 
three sugars, glucose, fruit sugar, and invert sugar, are 
found in fruits either separately or together. 

Sugar is used in cookery to give desirable flavor to 



i86 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

various substances. The changes which it undergoes 
Action of sugar when being cooked by itself are physical 
on boiling rather than chemical. When water boils, it 
can be no hotter when boiling vigorously than when 
boiling gently, for water is changed into steam at 212° F. 
and so pure water can never be any hotter than this 
temperature. As soon, however, as we put another sub- 
stance in solution in the water we raise the boiling 
point. Salted water has a higher boiling point than 
plain water and so also has a solution of sugar and 
water. As the water is gradually boiled out from syrup, 
the solution becomes more and more dense and the 
boiling point is continually being raised. This is the 
reason why all recipes for making jams say to boil 
vigorously. The syrup will do different things at differ- 
ent densities, so that in candy making or in boiling 
syrup for frosting, a syrup thermometer may be used 
and the syrup boiled up to the desired temperature. 
There are a few fixed points as follows: 

1. 238° F.: Soft ball test; makes a soft ball in cold water; used for 

frosting, fudge, and fondant. 

2. 248° F. : Hard ball test; forms a firm ball under cold water. 

3. 290° F.: Small crack test; is hard and brittle in cold water; for 

pulled candies. 

4. 310° F. : Hard crack test; begins to discolor; for glac6d nuts and 

fruit; too hard for pulled candies. 

5. 345°-350° F. : Caramel ; turns brown ; for peanut brittle. 

If the boiling were continued further, the water of the 
sugar itself would be driven out completely, leaving 
nothing but the black mass of charcoal or carbon. 
Another way for making caramel to be used for flavor, 
or for sauces, is to put the sugar in a frying- 
pan dry, and heat it on top of the stove. Af- 
ter it is melted and browned carefully without burning. 



SUGAR 187 

an equal amount of boiling water is added. This dissolves 
the caramel, which can then be kept in liquid form. 

Barley sugar, which is used for the very hard Christ- 
mas candies, is the stage reached before the sugar be- 
gins to caramelize when it has boiled too long to be 
used for glac6d fruits. 

The logical place to use sugar in the diet is at the 
close of a meal in which a variety of food substances 
has been used. This may be in the form of How to use 
made desserts of all kinds, cake, pastry, or sugar 
fruit, either raw or cooked. The dessert should be as 
carefully planned as the rest of the meal. If the earlier 
courses have been heavy, fruit is preferable to a rich 
pudding. If, however, left-overs have been used and the 
meal has been somewhat light, it is suitable to count 
on a hearty pudding for part of the total value of the 
meal. It should be remembered that all desserts which 
contain fat in any form either as cream, whipped or 
frozen, or as pastries, suet puddings, or rich cake, 
should only be served when very little fat has been 
used during the meal. To serve a rich cake with a lus- 
cious chocolate frosting with a rich ice-cream is sure 
to bring the total amount of fuel of the meal far above 
the actual requirements of the needs of the family. 
Peculiar as it may seem, a plain, slightly salted, crisp 
cracker goes better with ice-cream than anything else. 



CANDY AND DESSERT RECIPES 

PANOCHA 

I cup (packed) medium 1/3 cup nut meats 

brown sugar 1/4 pound pecans, in shell 

1/4 cup cream 1/3 pound hickory, in shell 



1 88 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

Cook sugar and cream to soft ball test. Cool until you can 
bear your hand on bottom of pan. Stir until it begins to 
thicken, add nuts, and when it is too thick to pour easily 
spread quickly on a buttered pan, cut in squares and cool. 

FUDGE 

2 cups sugar 1/4 cup Golden Drip syrup or 

1 cup water I /8 teaspoon cream of tartar 

2 ounces chocolate 2 teaspoons butter 

Cook to soft ball test. Cool, add i teaspoon vanilla, stir 
until too thick to pour, spread on buttered pan and cut in 
squares. 

OLYMPIAN CREAM 

3 cups sugar 1/4 to 1/3 cup Golden Drip syrup or 

I cup cream 1/4 teaspoon cream of tartar and 

caramel to color and flavor 

Cook to soft ball test (firm and waxy), cool, stir, when it 
thickens add 3/4 cup nuts (1/2 pound English walnuts). 
Stir until it will not pour, spread upon buttered pan and 
cut in squares. 

CREAM CANDY 

I cup sugar 
1/12 teaspoon cream of tartar 
1/3 cup water 

Cook without stirring to the crack test. Pour on a buttered 
pan, when cool enough to handle, pull lightly and quickly 
till white, cut with scissors or break into convenient pieces 
and wrap in paraffin paper. Color and flavor while pulling. 

MOLASSES CANDY 

1/3 cup sugar 

2/3 cup New Orleans molasses 

Cook to crack test, stirring occasionally to keep it from 



SUGAR 189 

burning. Add 1/12 teaspoon baking soda, pour upon a but- 
tered pan and when cool enough to handle, pull lightly and 
quickly until light colored and firm. Cut into pieces of con- 
venient size. Flavor while pulling. 

DATE KISSES y^'" 

Whites 2 eggs i cup pecans chopped 

I cup powdered sugar Vanilla 

I cup dates chopped fine 

Beat the eggs till stiff. Mix in the other ingredients. Drop 
onto a greased sheet and bake in a quick oven, 

FIG TOAST 

Wash carefully and cook in boiling water 1/2 pound figs 
until tender, add 1/4 cup sugar and the rind and juice of 
half a lemon. Cook until the syrup is reduced — when re- 
heating in chafing-dish. Butter toast while hot, heap the 
figs upon it, and cover with whipped cream made from 2/3 
cup cream and 3 tablespoons powdered sugar. Serve at 
once. 

FRIED BANANAS 

Remove the skin from 6 bananas and cut them in halves. 
Melt I tablespoon butter in blazer and cook bananas cov- 
ered until tender. Mix i tablespoon butter, 1/3 cup sugar, 
and 2 tablespoons lemon juice; when bananas are nearly 
done turn mixture in and baste with it until ready to serve. 

BAKED BANANAS (i) 

Remove skins from 6 bananas and cut in halves length- 
wise. Put in a shallow granite pan or on an old platter. 
Mix 2 tablespoons melted butter, 1/3 cup sugar, and 2 
tablespoons lemon juice. Baste bananas with one half the 
mixture. Bake 20 minutes in slow oven, basting during bak- 
ing with remaining mixture. 



190 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

BAKED BANANAS (2) 

Pull one narrow strip of skin down the entire length of 
each one of six bananas, and lay it back in place again. Place 
the bananas in a shallow baking-dish and bake in a mod- 
erate oven 20 minutes, or until the bananas are entirely soft. 
Serve in the skins to preserve all the juice. This is the best 
way to give bananas to children. 

BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING WITH WHIPPED 
CREAM 

Butter a round pudding-dish. Have slices of stale bread, 
butter them generously. Cut them in squares 2 inches across 
and arrange a layer in the bottom of the dish. Sprinkle with 
raisins and currants that have been well washed in several 
waters. Add another layer of the bread and butter, and re- 
peat until the dish is full. Then pour over it a custard made 
from 2 well beaten eggs, i pint of milk, and sugar to taste, 
seasoned with ground nutmeg. Dot the top of the pud- 
ding over with small pieces of butter, stand in a basin of 
water in a hot oven and bake until the top is brown. 
Serve hot with whipped cream which may be slightly 
flavored with vanilla, or if preferred with plain cream, un- 
sweetened and unflavored, or simply with hard sauce or 
soft butter. 

BREAD PUDDINGS 

Plain Lemon Chocolate Brown 

Stale crumbs i c. i p. i c. 

Stale crust 

crumbs I c. 

Milk 2 c. 2 c. 2 0. ,2 0. 

Egg I or 2 yolks i or 2 yolks I or 2 yolks 

Sugar 3 tb. 3 or 4 tb. 8 tb. 

Molasses 1/2 c. 

Salt 1/2 t. 1/2 t. 1/2 1. 1/2 1. 

Fruit 1/2 c. 

Lemon I rind « 

Spices 1/4 1. 

Chocolate i oz. 



SUGAR 191 

Soak crumbs and milk from i to 2 hours or until crumbs 
are soft — if milk is hot it will take shorter time. Beat egg 
with sugar and salt, and to it add the soaked crumbs. Put 
in a buttered dish, into a moderate oven, and bake 30 to 40 
minutes, or until a knife comes clean from the middle of the 
pudding. 

Serve plain bread pudding with chocolate sauce or frost- 
ing fruit sauce. 

Serve lemon bread pudding with frosting lemon sauce. 

Serve chocolate bread pudding with vanilla sauce. 

Serve brown bread pudding with caramel sauce. 

BROWN BETTY 

1 cup bread crumbs 3/4 teaspoon cinnamon 

2 cups chopped tart apples 1/16 teaspoon cloves 
1/2 cup brown sugar i to 2 tablespoons butter 

Butter a deep dish, put in layers of crumbs, apple, sugar, 
butter, and spice ; repeat ; put crumbs on top. Cover dish and 
cook in moderate oven 3/4 hour; uncover to brown. Serve 
with sugar and cream, or milk sweetened and flavored. 

BROWN SUSAN 

Line buttered mold with pieces of bread slightly buttered. 
Fill cavity with sliced apple, butter, sugar, and lemon rind; 
cover with buttered bread. Bake slowly, and heat at last to 
brown. Serve with lemon sauce. 

INDIAN PUDDING 

5 cups scalded milk i teaspoon salt 

1/3 cup Indian meal I teaspoon ginger 

1/2 cup molasses 

Pour milk slowly on the meal, cook in double boiler 20 
minutes. Add molasses, salt, and ginger, pour into buttered 
pudding-dish, and bake in slow oven from 3 to 6 hours. 



192 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 



INDIAN TAPIOCA PUDDING 

1/3 cup pearl tapioca 1/2 cup molasses 
2 cups boiling water i tablespoon butter 

11/2 teaspoons salt 1/4 teaspoon cinnamon 
1/4 cup cornmeal 3 cups hot milk 

Soak tapioca in cold water for one hour and drain. Add 
salt to boiling water, sift in cornmeal and boil 10 minutes, 
stirring often. Add tapioca and other ingredients, pour into 
a greased earthen dish and bake slowly for 2 hours. 

RICE AND APRICOT PUDDING 

1 cup rice 

2 tablespoons butter 

1/2 pound evaporated apricots 

Cook rice in boiling salted water until tender, drain, and 
add butter. Soak apricots overnight, cook until tender in 
plenty of water, add 1/2 cup sugar. Reserve one cup juice 
for the sauce. In a buttered dish put a layer of rice, then one 
of apricots, and repeat until dish is full; pour remaining 
juice over it and bake half an hour. 

APRICOT SAUCE 

I cup juice 
1/2 cup sugar 
I tablespoon flour 

Mix sugar and flour, add hot juice, cook until clear and 
slightly thick. 

RICE FLUMMERY 

1 cup broken rice 1/4 teaspoon salt 

4 cups milk 1/4 pound figs, prunes, or raisins 

Wash rice, cook, stirring constantly until tender. If whole 
rice is used cook until tender in boiling salted water, or in 



SUGAR 193 

double boiler; add from 1/2 to 3/4 as much milk and cook, 
stirring until the rice is broken up and mixture thick enough 
to mold. Mix with fruit and pack in cups. Cool and serve 
with fruit juice, brown sugar sauce, or cream. Figs should 
be steamed and cut up; prunes cooked, stoned and cut up; 
and raisins plumped and seeded. 

BOILED RICE PUDDING 

1/4 pound rice 
1/2 pound raisins 
1/2 teaspoon salt 

Wash rice, seed raisins, mix, and tie in floured cheese- 
cloth, allowing room to swell. Boil or steam 2 hours and 
serve with milk or cream, sweetened and flavored, or raisin 
sauce. 

POOR MAN'S PUDDING 

4 cups milk 1/4 cup sugar 

1/4 cup rice Nutmeg or raisins 

1/2 teaspoon salt 

Wash rice, mix ingredients, and pour into buttered pud- 
ding-dish. Bake from 2 to 3 hours in very slow oven, stirring 
three times during first hour of baking to prevent rice from 
settling, and occasionally afterward. Serve hot or cold. 

CHOCOLATE CORNSTARCH PUDDING 

Home recipe Individtuil recipe 

2 cups milk 1/2 cup 

3 tablespoons cornstarch i teaspoon 
1/4 cup sugar 3/4 tablespoon 

I square chocolate grated 3/4 tablespoon or 1/8 square 

1/4 teaspoon salt Pinch 

1/2 teaspoon vanilla 1/8 teaspoon 

Melt chocolate in double boiler over hot water, add sugar 



194 POOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 



and thin by adding milk, a few drops at a time. When smooth 
add scalded milk. Add cornstarch blended to a paste with 
a little cold milk, reserved for the purpose. Cook 20 minutes. 
Add salt and vanilla, and mold. Pour on a little cold water 
to prevent skin forming on top of mold. 

COTTAGE PUDDING 



Individual recipe 
I tablespoon butter 
3 tablespoons sugar 
I tablespoon beaten egg 
3 tablespoons milk 

1/2 cup flour 

3/4 teaspoon baking-powder 



Large recipe 
3 or 4 tablespoons 
3/4 cup 

1 egg 
3/4 cup 

2 cups 

3 teaspoons 



Make like cake, using more milk if necessary for a batter 
between a drop and a pour. Bake in a sheet, serve hot with 
lemon sauce. 

LEMON SAUCE 

Individual recipe Large recipe 

1/3 cup boiling water 2 cups 

1/4 inch square yellow lemon rind 2 inch square 

2 tablespoons sugar i cup 

I teaspoon flour 2 tablespoons 

I teaspoon butter 2 tablespoons 

I teaspoon lemon juice 2 tablespoons 

Cook first four ingredients until clear and somewhat 
thick, add butter and lemon juice just before taking from 
the stove, remove rind, and serve. 

APPLE SAUCE CAKE 

Cream together i cup of sugar, and i /2 cup of shortening, 
add I saltspoon of salt, 1/2 teaspoon of cloves, i teaspoon 
of cinnamon, little nutmeg, and i cup of raisins. 



SUGAR 195 

Dissolve I teaspoon soda in a bit of warm water and then 
stir it into i cup of sour apple sauce letting it foam over the 
ingredients in the bowl. Beat all thoroughly and add i 3/4 
cups flour. Bake in a loaf tin 45 minutes. 

APPLE COMPOTE 

Individual recipe Large recipe 

I apple 8 or 10 

1/4 cup water i cup 

1/8 cup sugar i cup 

1/2 inch stick cinnamon 2-inch stick 

Make syrup with sugar, water, and cinnamon ; boil slowly 
10 minutes, skimming well. Core and pare apples, cook till 
nearly done in syrup. Turn apples while cooking. Drain and 
bake apples a few minutes in the oven. Boil the syrup until 
almost like a jelly. Arrange apples on dish for serving. Fill 
core cavities with jelly or marmalade. Pour the syrup over 
them. Put whipped cream around the base. 

APPLE DUMPLING 

Individual recipe Large recipe 

1/3 cup flour 2 cups 
1/2 teaspoon baking-powder 31/2 teaspoons 

Speck salt 1/2 teaspoon 

1/2 tablespoon butter 3 tablespoons 

Milk 2/3 cup 

I apple 6 

Mix dough as for biscuits, pat or roll large enough to 
cover apple. Pare and core apple, fill center with raisins, 
jelly, or sugar with lemon juice or spices, place in middle of 
dough and press edges together. Put on floured tin and bake 
in moderate oven until apple is tender. Serve hot with 
molasses sauce. 



196 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

MOLASSES SAUCE 

Individual recipe Large recipe 

2 tablespoons Golden Drip syrup i cup 
I teaspoon vinegar or 2 tablespoons 

I teaspoon lemon juice I/2 lemon 

Salt 1/8 teaspoon 
1/4 teaspoon butter I tablespoon 

1/16 teaspoon mixed spices 1/4 teaspoon 

Mix and cook until somewhat thick. Instead of mixed 
spices you may use cinnamon or vanilla and i ounce of 
chocolate. 

Mixed Spices 

1/2 teaspoon cloves i teaspoon grated nutmeg 

1/2 teaspoon allspice 3 teaspoons cinnamon 

I teaspoon mace 

DUTCH APPLE CAKE 

2 cups flour I egg, or none 
1/2 teaspoon salt i cup milk 

3 teaspoons baking-powder 2 tablespoons melted butter 
2 tablespoons sugar 

Make a drop batter, spread about 3/4 inch on a buttered 
tin. Stick full of thin wedges of apple, sprinkle with sugar 
and cinnamon, and bake until brown. Serve with molasses 
sauce. 

APPLE PUDDING 

2 large apples grated 3/4 cup milk 
2 eggs well beaten 2 cups corn flakes 

1/2 cup maple syrup 

Mix together and bake until set like a custard. 



SUGAR 197 

APPLE TAPIOCA OR SAGO 

3/4 cup pearl or minute tapioca 

Cold water to cover, soak one hour 
Drain, add 4 cups water 
1/2 teaspoon salt 

Cook in double boiler until transparent. Core and pare 
7 sour apples, arrange in buttered pudding-dish, fill cavities 
with sugar and few drops lemon juice. Pour tapioca over 
apples and bake in moderate oven until apples are soft. 
Serve with sugar and cream. Other fruits may be used — 
peaches, pears, stewed prunes, bananas or cooked figs, or 
quinces. 

APPLE SAUCE 

6 apples I /4 cup sugar, or 

1/3 cup water 1/4 cup Golden Drip syrup 

Cook apples and water together over a slow fire until 
tender. Add sugar and cook until it is dissolved. If molasses 
or brown sugar is used put with apples and water and cook 
slowly, covered, in the oven till red in color. 

APPLE PORCUPINE 

I cup water ? „ ., . ^ 
( Boil 5 mmutes 

1 cup sugar ) *^ 

6 apples 
4 eggs, whites 
1/2 cup powdered sugar 

2 tablespoons blanched almonds 

3 tablespoons currant jelly 

Pare and core the apples and cook them until tender in 
the syrup. Take them out on a platter, and fill the centers 
with currant jelly. Make a meringue of the eggs and sugar, 
and cover the apples with it, then stick in the almonds. 
Place in the oven with the door open for 5 minutes. 



198 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

CHERRY PUFFS 

2 cups flour 1/4 teaspoon salt 

4 teaspoons baking-powder i cup milk 

I egg, or none 

Make a drop batter, put a spoonful in each of 10 or 12 
buttered cups, then a few cherries; cover these with another 
spoonful of batter and steam for 20 or 30 minutes. Serve 
with sauce made from the fruit juice. 

I cup juice I tablespoon sugar, if needed 

1/2 tablespoon butter i tablespoon flour 

Either fresh or canned fruit may be used, but reserve the 
juice for the sauce. Other small fruits may take the place 
of cherries. 

DATE PUDDING 

2 cups milk 3 tablespoons cornstarch 

1/2 cup corn or maple syrup 1/2 teaspoon salt 
12 seeded dates cut up small i teaspoon vanilla 

Mix the cornstarch with 1/4 cup of milk. Heat the re- 
maining milk in a double boiler. Add the cornstarch, syrup, 
dates, and salt, and stir until thick. Cover and cook 20 min- 
utes. Add the vanilla and put in a dish to cool. 

ORANGE TAPIOCA 

I cup ball tapioca i cup sugar 

6 oranges Whipped cream 

Soak the tapioca 2 hours in enough cold water to cover. 
Wash and dry the oranges and slice them into 2 or 4 parts. 
Put them over to boil in clear water and boil until you can 
pierce the skin with a toothpick. Remove the oranges and 
arrange on a pretty platter. Put the tapioca over to cook in 
the water the oranges were cooked in, add the sugar, and 



SUGAR 199 

boil until clear, then pour over the cooked oranges. Serve 
chilled with whipped cream. 

PRUNE PUDDING 

1 pound prunes i lemon, juice and rind 

2 cloves 1/3 box gelatine 

Soak prunes overnight, cook until tender with cloves and 
lemon. Soak gelatine in prune juice, and dissolve with hot 
juice, using the proportion of 2 quarts juice to one box of 
gelatine. Stone fruit and put with juice into mold, chill, and 
serve with sweetened whipped cream. 

PRUNE WHIP (i) 

Whites of 4 eggs 
24 large prunes, cooked and mashed through a strainer 
4 tablespoons granulated sugar 
Lemon juice 

Beat the whites of the eggs until stiff with a little salt, 
adding the sugar gradually while beating. Cut and fold in 
the prune pulp. Pile in a baking-dish. Stand the dish in a 
pan of hot water in a moderate oven until set. 

PRUNE WHIP (2) 

2 cups silver prunes 
I cup best evaporated apricots 
I quart fresh water 
1/2 cup sugar 

1 pint rich milk 

2 tablespoons sugar 
2 tablespoons sherry 

(Fruit mixture to be used instead of wine: 
1/2 orange, 1/4 lemon, 1/4 pineapple) 
I pint box small fruit 
Yolks 2 eggs 



200 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

Wash the prunes and apricots well, drain, and place in a 
stew-pan, cover with water, boil until the stones fall from 
the prunes, remove from the fire, take out the stones, cut 
the fruit in small cubes, return to the liquor which should 
be quite thick. Add the sugar and cook to a thick paste, 
take from the fire and chill. Make a custard in the double 
boiler, allowing the milk to scald, add the well-beaten eggs, 
sugar, and wine ; when quite thick take from the stove and 
chill. About serving time whip the whites of the eggs until 
they stand alone. Fill a pretty glass berry-dish first with a 
layer of dark prune sauce, then of deep yellow custard. 
Drop the whites over the top, and garnish with the bright 
berries. Whipped cream may be substituted for the eggs. 

STEAMED SUET AND FRUIT PUDDING 

21/2 cups flour 2/3 cup butter 

I teaspoon soda i cup chopped raisins or 

1/2 teaspoon salt currants 

1/2 saltspoon cinnamon i cup water or milk 

1/2 saltspoon nutmeg i cup molasses 
I cup chopped suet 

Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add molasses and milk to 
suet; combine mixtures. Stone, cut, and flour raisins, then 
add to mixture. Turn into buttered mold, cover, and steam 
3 hours. Serve with foamy sauce. If water and butter be 
used, 3 cups flour will be required, as these thicken less than 
milk and suet. This pudding may be steamed in small stone 
cups. 

FOAMY SAUCE 

1/2 cup butter 2 tablespoons wine, or 

I cup powdered sugar i teaspoon vanilla 
I egg 



SUGAR 201 

FIG PUDDING 

Individual recipe Large recipe 

2 tablespoons sugar 1/2 cup 

1 ounce suet 1/4 pound 

2 ounces figs i /2 pound 
2/3 cup crumbs 21/3 cups 

2 tablespoons milk 1/2 cup 

1/2 egg 2 

1/6 teaspoon salt 3/4 teaspoon 

I 1/2 teaspoons lemon juice 1/2 

1/8 lemon rind 1/2 

1/2 teaspoon nutmeg 2 teaspoons 

Chop figs. Chop suet with a little flour to keep it from 
sticking together. Mix the two. Soak bread crumbs in milk, 
add eggs well beaten, sugar, and salt. Combine mixtures, 
turn into buttered mold, steam 3 hours, or in individual 
molds 40 minutes. Serve with hard sauce. 

RAISIN PUDDING 

I cup wet bread crumbs 1/4 cup chopped suet, or none 
1/4 cup molasses 1/8 teaspoon mixed spices 

1/4 cup raisins 

Soak bread in cold water 30 minutes, squeeze water out, 
measure, and mix lightly with other ingredients. Put into a 
buttered can and steam or cook surrounded by boiling water 
for 2 hours. Serve with hard or golden sauce. 

PLUM PUDDING WITHOUT EGGS 

I cup bread crumbs 1/2 cup molasses 

1/2 cup flour 1/2 cup sweet milk 

1/2 cup suet (chopped fine) 1/8 teaspoon soda 

1/2 cup raisins 1/4 teaspoon salt 

1/4 teaspoon cloves 1/2 teaspoon cinnamon 

Butter earthen dish. Mix ingredients and cook 5 hours in 
fireless cooker. 



202 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

CHOCOLATE AND ALMOND PUDDING 

I tablespoon butter 1/2 cup milk 

1/2 cup flour 5 eggs 

1/2 cup grated chocolate 3/4 cup sugar 

(3 ounces) i cup chopped almonds 

Cook butter, flour, chocolate, and milk over the fire, stir- 
ring constantly. Set it to cool. Beat yolks with sugar until 
creamy; add it to cold mixture, a spoonful at a time. Mix 
thoroughly. Fold in beaten whites; turn into a buttured 
mold, and steam 2 to 3 hours. Serve with hard sauce. 

PUDDING SAUCES 

Golden Sauce 

1/2 cup butter 1/2 cup fruit juice 

1 cup light brown sugar 1/8 teaspoon mace 

2 yolks eggs 

Cream butter and sugar, put over hot water, stir until 
liquid, then add beaten yolks, mace, and fruit juice, and stir 
until it thickens. Serve at once. 

Hard Sauce 

I /3 cup butter i teaspoon lemon juice 

2/3 to I cup powdered sugar 2/3 teaspoon vanilla 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually and flavoring. The 
beaten yolk or white of an egg may be added. Beat the mix- 
ture well, form on serving-dish, and put in cool place until 
used. 

Frosting Sauce 

I white of egg 2/3 cup fruit 

2/3 cup powdered sugar Lemon juice 

Put unbeaten white in bowl, add fruit and sugar gradu- 
ally, using the Dover egg-beater, and beat until smooth and 
thick. Lemon juice is added to bring out the flavor of fruit, 



SUGAR 203 

and less sugar is needed if fruit is sweetened. The juice of 
half a lemon may be used without fruit. 

Vanilla Sauce 
I cup water i tablespoon butter 

1/2 cup sugar i teaspoon vanilla 

I tablespoon flour 

Mix sugar and flour, pour over it boiling water, cook until 
clear and slightly thick; add butter several minutes before 
taking up, and vanilla just before serving. 

Chocolate Sauce 
To vanilla sauce add i ounce bitter chocolate instead of 
the butter, and half as much vanilla. 

Brown Sugar Sauce 
I cup water i tablespoon butter 

3/4 cup brown sugar 2 teaspoons lemon juice 
I 1/2 tablespoons flour Nutmeg 

Follow direction given for making vanilla sauce, using 
other flavoring. 

Caramel Sauce 
I /2 cup caramel 3 tablespoons sugar (if desired) 

1/2 cup water 1/2 teaspoon vanilla 

I tablespoon flour 

To make caramel melt i /2 cup sugar, stirring constantly, 
but not allowing it to burn or get dark; take it from the fire 
for a minute and add i /2 cup boiling water. Return to fire 
and boil until smooth. This caramel will keep indefinitely. 
Mix flour with sugar or water, add to caramel, and cook 
until slightly thick and clear. Add vanilla just before serving. 

Raisin Sauce 
11/2 tablespoons butter i cup water 
1/2 cup sugar 2 teaspoons flour 

1/4 cup raisins Lemon juice 



204 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

Seed and chop raisins, cook in water slowly 15 minutes. 
Add 2 teaspoons flour in 2 tablespoons water and cook 5 
minutes more. Strain raisins out if desired, pour mixture 
upon butter and sugar creamed, and add lemon juice if 
needed. 

LEMON JELLY 

Individual recipe Large recipe 

3/4 teaspoon Knox gelatine 2 tablespoons or 1/2 box 

1 tablespoon cold water 3/4 cup 
3 tablespoons cold water 2 cups 

2 tablespoons sugar i cup 
1/8 inch stick cinnamon i inch 

I inch square lemon rind 1/8 lemon 

3/4 lemon (2 tablespoons) juice 1/2 cup 

For orange juice use 1/2 cup orange juice and 1/4 cup 
lemon juice, reducing the water 1/4 cup. Soak gelatine and 
cold water 10 minutes. Make a syrup of cold water, sugar, 
stick cinnamon, and lemon rind; cook until slightly yellow. 
Pour syrup over gelatine to dissolve it. If this heat is not 
sufficient set mixture in hot water. Add to mixture lemon 
juice and strain all into wet molds. Chill. Serve with whipped 
cream. 

JELLIED WALNUTS 

1/2 box gelatine, or 3/4 cup sugar 

I tablespoon granulated gelatine i /2 cup orange juice 

I /4 cup cold water 3 tablespoons lemon 

1/3 cup boiling water juice 

Make same as lemon jelly. Cover bottom of shallow pan 
with half of mixture; when firm place on it, i inch apart, 
halves of English walnuts. Make walnuts adhere with a few 
drops of the mixture. Cover with remaining mixture. Chill, 
and cut in squares for serving. 



SUGAR 205 

FRUIT PUDDING 

1/2 box gelatine, or i orange 
2 tablespoons granulated 4 figs 

gelatine 6 dates 

1/2 cup cold water 2 bananas 

I 1/2 cups boiling water 18 blanched almonds 

2 cups sugar I/4 pound malaga grapes 
Juice 2 lemons 

Proceed as in lemon jelly with first five ingredients. 
Strain mixture, and when quite stiff stir in the fruit. Slice 
the bananas and cut orange, figs, and dates in small pieces 
before adding to mixture. Turn all into a wet mold, let 
harden, and serve with whipped cream. 

SPANISH CREAM 

1/4 box gelatine, or 3 yolks of eggs 

I tablespoon granulated 1/3 cup sugar 

gelatine 1/4 teaspoon salt 

3 cups milk I teaspoon vanilla, or 
3 whites of eggs 3 tablespoons wine 

Soak gelatine in part of milk, scald the balance, add sugar 
and gelatine, pour mixture slowly on yolks of eggs slightly 
beaten. Return to double boiler and cook until thickened, 
stirring constantly. Remove from fire, add salt, flavoring, 
and whites of eggs beaten stiff. Turn into wet individual 
molds and chill. Serve with cream. More gelatine will be 
required if large molds are used. 

BAVARIAN CREAM 

1/4 cup cold milk or water 3/4 cup sugar 

1/4 package gelatine 1/16 teaspoon salt 

1 cup double cream and 2 yolks eggs 

2 cups milk, or i teaspoon vanilla, or 

2 cups single cream 2 tablespoons rum or sherry 

(Fruit mixture instead of wine, 1/2 orange, 1/4 lemon, 
1/4 pineapple.) 



2o6 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

Whip cream and stand aside to drain. Scald 3/4 cup milk 
and stir slowly into eggs, sugar, and salt beaten, and then 
return to double boiler and stir until it begins to thicken. 
Take from fire, stir in the soaked gelatine and flavoring, stir 
until gelatine is dissolved, then strain it. When cold and 
beginning to set whip it a few minutes with the Dover egg- 
beater and then mix in lightly the whipped cream and turn 
it into a mold to harden. It should have a spongy texture. 
Do not use any of the cream which has drained through. 

Coffee Bavarian Cream 

May be made by omitting the vanilla and soaking the 
gelatine in i /4 cup clear black coffee or steep i /4 cup ground 
coffee in milk that is used for custard. 

Chocolate Bavarian Cream 

Cook until smooth 2 ounces chocolate (melted), 1/4 cup 
sugar, I /4 cup boiling water ; add to the milk used for cus- 
tard and proceed as directed above, using vanilla. 

Caramel Bavarian Cream 

Caramelize 3/4 cup sugar and dissolve in hot milk for 
custard, use in addition 1/4 cup sugar with the yolks of eggs 
for the custard and proceed as directed above, using vanilla. 

ORANGE BAVAROISE 

1/2 lemon grated rind and juice 
1/2 cup white wine or orange juice 
1/3 cup sugar 

2 eggs 

I teaspoon granulated gelatine 

I tablespoon cold water 

Mix lemon, wine, sugar, soaked gelatine, and yolks of 
eggs; stir vigorously over water until gelatine is dissolved 
and mixture thickened. Set in pan of ice water and when 
mixture begins to harden beat with Dover egg-beater until 



SUGAR 207 

it will drop from the spoon ; mix into it beaten whites of eggs 
and turn into a mold lined with lady fingers and chill. It may 
be served in orange baskets. 

COFFEE MOUSSE 

I ounce gelatine dissolved in i /2 cup sugar 
I /4 cup cold water i cup strong coffee 

1/2 cup boiling water . I cup whipped cream 

Pour the boiling water onto the gelatine. Add the sugar 
and coffee, and cool. When it begins to set, whip, add the 
cream, and whip all together. Put in mold. When serving 
garnish with whipped cream. 

JERUSALEM PUDDING 

I /4 cup rice 3 figs, and same amount of 

I /2 box gelatine ginger 

I /2 cup powdered sugar i /2 cup sherry wine 

I teaspoon vanilla i pint cream 

Wash rice and boil in plenty of water until soft, drain, and 
dry on towel. Cut figs and ginger into small pieces, cover 
with sherry, and let stand until rice is ready. Soak gelatine 
in 1/2 cup of cold water 15 minutes, then dissolve over hot 
•water. Whip cream and add powdered sugar, vanilla, gela- 
tine, rice, and fruit; stir in a cold place until it begins to 
thicken. Place in mold and when firm, serve with whipped 
cream. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE 



Individual recipe 


Large recipe 


1/2 teaspoon granulated gelatine 


1/4 box 


I tablespoon cold water 


1/4 cup 


I /2 tablespoons scalded cream 


1/3 cup 


4 teaspoons powdered sugar 


1/3 cup 


1/2 cup thin cream (whip from) 


31/2 cups 


1/2 teaspoon vanilla 


I 1/2 teaspoons 


Lady fingers 


6 



208 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

Soak gelatine in cold water, dissolve in scalded cream, 
strain into a bowl, and add sugar and vanilla. Set bowl in 
the water, stir constantly until it begins to thicken, then 
fold in whip from cream, adding one third at a time. Should 
gelatine mixture become too thick, melt over water and 
again cool before adding whip. Line mold with lady fingers, 
turn mixture in, spread evenly, and chill. 

FRUIT SOUFFLE 

3/4 cup fruit pulp — peach. Whites 3 eggs 

apricot, quince, or prune Sugar 

Cook fruit, rub through sieve, sweeten, and perhaps add 
lemon juice. If canned fruit is used, first drain from syrup. 
Beat whites of eggs until stiff, add gradually fruit pulp, and 
continue beating; turn into buttered molds, having them 
3/4 full. Set molds in pan of hot water and bake in slow oven 
until firm, which may be determined by pressing with finger. 
Serve with soft custard. 

ANGEL CREAM 

Take a loaf of angel cake or sunshine cake, and with a 
sharp knife cut a circle from the center. Fill the hollow with 
whipped cream. Place a thin slice of the cake on as a cover, 
coat the entire cake with a heavy chocolate filling. Set in a 
cool place until needed. Slice as you would a frozen pudding. 

SPLASH 

1/2 pound marshmallows 1/2 cup nut meats 
I dozen macaroons i jar cream 

Cut the marshmallows into small pieces and break up 
the macaroons. Whip the cream, beat in the other ingredi- 
ents, adding a little salt. Serve in glasses, chilled. 



SUGAR 209 

MAPLE MOUSSE 

I cup maple syrup 
I pint cream 

Mix and beat with a Dover egg-beater till thick. Put in a 
mold and pack in ice and salt. 

VANILLA MOUSSE 

I pint cream 

4 tablespMDons flour 

I tablespoon vanilla 

Whip the cream and place on a sieve to drain. Return to 
bowl and stir in lightly the powdered sugar and the flavoring. 
Place in a mold and pack in ice and salt for 2 hours. 

COFFEE PARFAIT 

Pour a syrup of 1/2 cup of sugar and i cup of strong coffee 
over 2 beaten eggs. Cook in a double boiler until it thickens. 
Remove from the stove and when it is cool combine it with 
I pint of thick cream beaten until stiff. Fill mold and pack 
in ice and salt for 3 or 4 hours. 

FROZEN ORANGE WHIP 

I cup sugar Few grains salt 

2/3 cup water I pint heavy cream 

1/4 cup orange juice 2 oranges 
Grated rind 2 oranges 

Boil the sugar and water together until it spins a thread. 
Add the orange rind, juice, and salt. Cover and keep in a 
warm place i hour, then cool. Beat the cream until stiff 
and add the orange syrup gradually, beating all the time. 
Cut the oranges crosswise, remove the pulp with a spoon. 
Pour the juice from the oranges into a brick mold, then put 
in alternate layers of cream mixture and orange pulp until 



210 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

the mold is filled to overflowing. Pack in salt and finely 
chopped ice, in equal parts. Let it stand 2 hours. Garnish 
with candied orange peel. 

WALNUT ICE 

I cup granulated sugar i pint cream whipped 
I cup water l teaspoon vanilla 

Whites 3 eggs I cup chopped walnut meats 

Boil the sugar and water until it threads, and pour it 
over the whites of eggs beaten stiff and dry. To this add the 
whipped cream, vanilla, and nut meats, folding the latter 
in gently. Pack in salt and ice and freeze. 

1-2-3 ICE-CREAM 

Juice and part of grated rind of I lemon 

Juice and pulp of 2 oranges 
3 bananas, squashed through a sieve 
2 cups of sugar 

Whites of 2 eggs beaten stiiBE 
2 cups of cold water 

Mix all together, add a little salt and freeze. 



CHAPTER XIII 

FOOD ACCESSORIES 
BEVERAGES AND CONDIMENTS 

Besides the food substances actually needed for the 
maintenance of the health of the body, we have other 
foods which are added to give variety to piace of tea 
our meals. These all fall in the class of ^^^ coffee 
luxuries and cannot be afforded by the poor. Tea and 
coffee are the exceptions to this statement, for though 
they properly belong in the class of luxuries, they give 
so much comfort that they are considered essential in 
the diet by the very poorest. They are not, however, 
foods, although they take away the sense of fatigue. 
They lessen the feeling of hunger but tend to increase 
the waste of tissue, for they contain substances which 
are stimulants to the central nervous system. They 
also tend to retard the digestion of food in the stomach, 
and tea in particular has a harmful action on the mu- 
cous lining of the stomach which prevents the desire 
for the proper amount of food needed by the body. 

These two beverages, together with cocoa, contain 
as an active constituent a substance belonging to the 
chemical group of alkaloids. This is similar to quinine, 
cocaine, nicotine, morphine, and strychnine. Although 
this substance is small in quantity in tea when properly 
made, enough is present to be harmful when the tea 
is drunk after the teapot is allowed to stand indefinitely 
on the back of the stove. When cocoa is made with 
milk, the food value is, of course, greatly increased, 



212 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

but it must not be forgotten that it still contains one of 
the alkaloids and should be given to children in very 
weak form. 

Tea was first introduced into England in 1610 by the 
Dutch East India Company. It is an evergreen shrub 
grown chiefly in Japan, China, and some 
parts of India. The delicate leaves and 
buds at the ends of the sprays are picked during the 
spring and summer. Different grades of teas are made 
from the different leaves. The buds make the finest 
pekoe teas, and the other leaves are graded in descend- 
ing scale according to their size. Oolongs come from 
Formosa while the scented Orange Pekoe is from the 
Canton district. Chinese teas as a whole have the most 
delicate flavor but lack body. Indian teas, on the other 
hand, have the greatest degree of body and astringency 
and are therefore suitable for blending. Ceylon tea has 
a rich and peculiar flavor. The difference between a 
green and a black tea lies in the curing. For a green tea 
the leaves are steamed, rolled, and dried immediately, 
while for a black tea the leaves are dried from twelve to 
twenty-four hours, rolled, and then allowed to ferment 
before drying. Most black teas are blends while green 
teas come largely from northern China and Japan. 

To make tea properly, water should be freshly drawn 
and used as soon as it boils. It should then be poured on 
How to the tea leaves in an earthernware pot and 

make tea allowed to stand three to five minutes. It 
should then be poured off the leaves, as a longer steep- 
ing extracts more of the harmful constituents. If tea 
is made for a large number of people, as for a reception, 
it can be done very simply before the reception by 
pouring a small amount of boiling water (about ten 



FOOD ACCESSORIES 213 

teaspoonfuls of tea to a pint of water) on the tea- 
leaves, letting It stand for four minutes, then pouring 
it off. This strong decoction may then be served from 
the teapot by adding only about a tablespoonful in the 
cup and filling it up with boiling water. In this way 
every cup of tea served during the afternoon is equally 
fresh and good. 

A retired Smyrna merchant introduced the use of 
coffee into England in 1652, and his Greek servant 
started the first coffee-house in London. 
The plant is a native of Arabia but is 
now grown in many tropical countries. The coffee bean 
which is used for making the concoction corresponds 
to the stone in a fruit similar to a cherry. The pulp of 
the fruit is softened by fermentation and the beans 
dried in the air. The husk is removed by rolling and the 
beans are then separated and sorted according to size. 
They are shipped raw but are roasted before being 
ground, in order to develop the flavor. There are several 
varieties on the market, those from Mocha and Java 
having the best flavor. The ones from Mexico and 
Brazil are not so expensive and are constantly growing 
in popularity. 

Since both tea and coffee are stimulants to the nerv- 
ous system and not foods, they should never be given 
to children. They take away the sense of fatigue which 
is the reason for their popularity, especially at lunch, 
but they should not be used to take the place of food. 
A cup of coffee alone does not make a suitable lunch 
for anybody. A cup of tea at four o'clock in the after- 
noon when the vitality is at a low point is a good stim- 
ulant, especially when taken with bread and butter 
or toast to provide the food the body needs and to 



214 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

prevent any irritating effect the tea may have on the 
stomach. 

Cocoa is a native of Mexico and was introduced into 
Europe by Columbus. It is obtained from the bean-Uke 
seeds of the fruit of the cacao tree. Both 
cocoa and chocolate are prepared from 
these seeds. In order to get the best chocolate, the seeds 
are dried, fermented in heaps, and roasted. This devel- 
ops the flavor and frees the seeds from their husks. The 
inner portion thus obtained is broken up and ground. 
When the fat is expressed from this and the remainder 
pulverized, we have cocoa. Pure cocoa is generally 
mixed with starch or sugar to keep it from lumping. 
For this reason, cocoa to be well made should be boiled ; 
but since it is not wise to boil milk, the best way to 
make cocoa is to mix the powdered cocoa and sugar to- 
gether with some water and boil this for four or five 
minutes. The milk may then be added and the whole 
heated, preferably in a double boiler. The addition of 
a little salt greatly improves the flavor of the cocoa. 

With the coming of prohibition the popularity of 
fruit drinks has notably increased. These are of wide 

. ^^ variety and may be made with a basis of 
tea or ginger ale. Since fruit is such a 
wholesome article of diet, the use of lemonade, orange- 
ade, grape juice and other fruit juices should be culti- 
vated, especially for young people. Their attractiveness 
may be increased by using different combinations of 
fruits. 

Other food accessories used to give flavor to the diet 
contain chemical substances known as essential oils 
and ethereal salts. These are found in herbs, fruits, and 
spices. The expert cook should be familiar with these 



FOOD ACCESSORIES 215 

and should understand that the best results are ob- 
tained by a judicious mixture of flavors. For instance, 
the much-despised chocolate cornstarch pudding as it 
is usually served in a restaurant may be greatly im- 
proved by the addition of a little coffee, salt, vanilla, 
and cinnamon, or even orange and sometimes rose. 

Herbs: 

Anise: seeds, used in cookies. 

Bay-leaf: leaves of a small shrub, used with tomatoes in 

sauces and soups. 
Basil: leaves, used in salads and walnut ketchup. 
Fennel: seeds, used for liqueurs; leaves, with fish. 
Garlic: salads. 

Mint: leaves, used in sauce for lamb, and drinks. 
Marjoram : 

q, , ' - used for poultry stuffing. 

Summer savory: 

Tarragon: leaves; used in vinegar for salad dressing; 
I /4 teaspoon to i cup of sauce to bring out the flavor. 
Thyme: leaves, for poultry stuffing. 

Spices: 

Allspice: an evergreen from the island of Jamaica. The 
allspice of commerce is the berries of cassia. Used 
with other spices in soupstock and stews. 

Capers: flower buds pickled in vinegar, used in sauce for 
mutton, and in tartare sauce. 

Caraway: seeds, used in cookies and rye bread. 

Cassia: bark of a plant from China and Bengal, a variety 
of cinnamon; buds, immature fruit. Used for flavor 
in cakes, puddings, and pickles. 

Celery: seeds, used in soupstock and creamed soups. 

Cinnamon: bark of a laurel from Ceylon, used with 
other spices, cakes, puddings, and pickles. 



2i6 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

Cloves: dried buds from a plant in the East Indies, same 

uses as cinnamon, particularly with pickled peaches. 

Ginger: root of a plant growing in India and China, 

though cultivated in Africa, Australia, and tropical 

America, used in gingerbread, cookies, and puddings. 

Mace: seedcoat of the nutmeg, a good flavor in creamed 

oysters and creamed fish. 
Mustard: seeds, both black and white; used in sour 

pickles. 
Mustard: prepared; ground with salt, spices, and vinegar, 

used with ham and corned beef. 
Nutmeg: seeds of a tree from the East Indies, dried after 
washing in lime-water and powdered, used on cus- 
tards, junket, and cottage cheese. 
Peppers: 

Black: dried, immature berries with the hulls. 
White: dried, mature berries without the hulls. 
Red: (i) Paprika: mild, dried, ripe fruit of capsicum 
without seeds. 

(2) Cayenne : active, seeds. 

(3) Tabasco : sauce prepared from capsicum. 
Curry powder: mixture of turmeric and other spices, used 

with rice and mixtures of rice and chicken and 
left-over meat or fish. 

Extracts: 

Extracts are solutions in alcohol of the odorous principle 
derived from aromatic fruits and plants. They contain 
essential oils like thymol, or the oil of thyme, menthol, 
or the oil of peppermint, and the oil of lemon or orange, 
These are all used mainly to flavor cakes and desserts. 

Almond: oil of bitter almond, or oil from the seed of 

apricots or peaches. 
Anise: oil of anise. 
Cinnamon: oil of cinnamon. 



FOOD ACCESSORIES 217 

Clove: oil of clove. 

Lemon: oil from the skin of lemons. 

Orange : oil from the skin of oranges. 

Peppermint: oil of mint. 

Vanilla: soluble matter of the vanilla bean. 

Winter green : oil of wintergreen. 

Pickles, Sauces, etc.: 

A pickle is a food substance, usually fruit or vegetable, 
preserved in any kind of vinegar, with or without 
spices, without taking up any metallic compound other 
than salt. 

Catchup {ketchup, catsup) : made from properly prepared 
pulp of clean, sound, fresh, ripe tomatoes, with 
spices and with or without sugar and vinegar. Chop- 
ped capers, chili, horse-radish, mustard, or ginger 
may be included. 

Walnut catchup : fresh green walnuts ground and soaked 
in vinegar and salt; used with cold meat, particu- 
larly beef. 

Cassareep: from the root of the cassava, with spices; used 
as a basis for sauces. 

Chutney: from mango apple, with chilies, spices, lemon 
juice, raisins, figs, salt, and sugar; used with beef. 

Soy sauce: from the soy bean, fermented and mixed with 
brine; used largely by Chinese with rice and in chop 
suey. 

Tabasco: pulp of the red pepper mixed with tomato, in 
vinegar as a preservative, used with cheese dishes and 
where a very hot flavor is desired. 

Worcestershire: from cassareep, with spices, garlic, pep- 
pers, lime juice, curry, brown sugar, and vinegar; 
used in gravies and soup, also served with meats. 

Devonshire sauce and Harvey sauce are similar to 
Worcestershire. 



2i8 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

BEVERAGES 

COLD WATER COFFEE 

I cup ground coffee 
7 cups cold water 
1/4 egg 

Scald granite-ware coffeepot. Wash egg, break, and dilute 
with one half cup of cold water, stir into the coffee, and mix 
well. Add the rest of the cold water and bring slowly to a 
boil. Remove to back of stove, add one tablespoon cold 
water, and allow it to stand a few minutes. Egg may be 
omitted and 1/4 cup cold water added instead of i table- 
spoon at last to settle coffee. 

HOT WATER COFFEE 

I cup ground coffee 1/2 cup cold water 

7 cups boiling water i /4 egg 

Mix cold water, egg, and coffee. Add boiling water, let it 
come to a boil, and then set it back where it will not boil but 
keep hot for 10 minutes, or boil 3 minutes and set aside for 
10 minutes. 

FILTERED COFFEE 
I cup finely ground coffee 6 cups boiling water 

Place coffee in strainer, strainer in coffeepot, and pot in 
hot water. Add boiling water gradually, cover between addi- 
tions of water and allow it to filter. If desired stronger allow 
it to refilter. Add first half-cup of water by tablespoons, and 
rest by half-cups. 

TEA 

I teaspoon tea i cup boiling water 

Scald an earthenware or china teapot. Put in tea and pour 
over it boiling water. Let it stand on back of range or in 



FOOD ACCESSORIES 219 

warm place 3 minutes. Strain and serve immediately, either 
with or without sugar and cream. Avoid second steeping of 
tea leaves. If this is done so large an amount of tannin is 
extracted that ill results may follow. 

RUSSIAN TEA 

Follow recipe for making tea. Russian tea may be served 
either hot or cold, but always without milk. A thin slice of 
lemon is allowed for each cup. Sugar is added according to 
taste. As in Russia, a preserved strawberry may be allowed 
each cup, or candied cherries may be used, or a clove added. 

ICED TEA 

4 teaspoons tea 2 cups boiling water 

Follow recipe for making tea, strain into glasses 1/3 full 
of cracked ice. Sweeten to taste. The flavor is much finer by 
chilling the infusion quickly. 

CHOCOLATE 

I 1/2 squares Baker's chocolate i cup boiling water 

3 tablespoons sugar 3 cups milk 

Few grains salt 

Scald milk, melt chocolate in saucepan placed over hot 
water, add sugar, salt, and gradually boiling water; when 
smooth place on range and boil one minute ; add to scalded 
milk in double boiler and cook for several minutes. Beat 
with Dover egg-beater just before serving and serve with 
whipped cream in chocolate cups, i 1/2 ounces vanilla 
chocolate may be substituted for Baker's chocolate, and, 
being sweetened, requires less sugar. 3 tablespoons cocoa 
may be used instead of chocolate. When cocoa is used, it 
should be boiled with a little water for three minutes before 
adding it to the milk. One yolk of egg may be added to the 
cooked chocolate and sugar after cooling it, and before the 
milk is added. 



220 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

ICED COFFEE AND CHOCOLATE 

Mix equal parts of coffee and cold chocolate. Sweeten with 
maple syrup and serve with whipped cream. A spoonful of 
vanilla ice-cream may be added to each glass instead of the 
whipped cream if preferred. 

FRUIT PUNCH 

I pineapple, or i can grated pineapple 

1 cup boiling water 

2 cups freshly made tea (i heaping tablespoon Ceylon tea; 

steep 5 minutes) 
I dozen lemons, the juice 

3 oranges, sliced and quartered 
I quart bottle Apollinaris water 

3 cups sugar boiled with i 1/2 cups water, 6 to 8 minutes 
I pint water 
Ice 

Grate pineapple, add water, and boil 15 minutes. Strain 
through jelly bag, pressing out all the juice; let cool, and 
add the rest of the fruit juice, the tea, and syrup. Add 
Apollinaris water just before serving. Pieces of pineapple, 
strawberries, mint leaves, or slices of banana are sometimes 
added as a garnish. 

LEMON GINGER ALE 

2 bottles ginger ale 
Juice 3 lemons 
3/4 cup sugar 

Mix thoroughly and serve chilled with mint leaves. 
GRAPE JUICE (i) 

Wash grapes and pick from stems. Put fruit in preserving 
kettle and crush slightly. Heat slowly and boil gently for 
half an hour. Crush fruit with wooden spoon ; strain through 
cheesecloth over sieve or colander. Drain well, then draw 



FOOD ACCESSORIES 221 

the edges of cheesecloth together and twist hard to press 
out all the juice possible. Measure strained juice and put in 
a clean preserving kettle and on fire. When it boils up, draw 
back and skim. Let it boil up again and skim. Add one gill 
of sugar for each quart of juice. Stir until dissolved. Boil 
5 minutes, skimming carefully. Fill hot sterilized jars or 
bottles. Put jars in a moderate oven for 10 minutes in pans 
of boiling water. Fill jars with more boiling juice and seal. 

GRAPE JDICE (2) 

Prepare grapes as above. Put in double boiler (i8o*'-2CX)°), 
crush, and heat. Strain, put in sterilized jars or bottles, and 
set in water which is kept at or below boiling 10 minutes. 
Fill to overflowing with boiling juice and seal. 

SPICES, PRESERVES, AND PICKLES 

GRAPE PRESERVES 

I pint fruit 3/4 pint sugar 

Wash and drain grapes. Remove pulp from skins. Heat 
pulp, cook 10 to 15 minutes. Strain out seeds. Add skins 
and cook 10 minutes. Measure. Add sugar and cook until 
liquid thickens. 

GRAPE MARMALADE 

I pint fruit 3/4 pound sugar 

Wash and drain grapes. Remove from stems. Heat to 
boiling point; mash and cook until seeds come out. Strain 
out seeds and skins. Cook 10 minutes. Measure. Add sugar 
and boil until liquid thickens. Put in sterilized jelly glasses. 

SPICED GRAPES 

8 pounds grapes 2 tablespoons cinnamon 

3 pounds sugar 2 tablespoons cloves 

I pint vinegar, scant 



222 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

Whole spices may be substituted in place of the ground. 
Cook vinegar, spices, and fruit after it has been prepared 
lO to 20 minutes. Add sugar and boil down until it is of 
right consistency. Prepare grapes the same as for preserved 
grapes. Plums may be used in place of grapes. 

ORANGE MARMALADE 

{English recipe) 

To each 5 oranges and i grapefruit allow 2 lemons, 5 
pints water, and 5 pounds sugar. Cut the fruit into quarters 
and remove the pips, putting them to soak in a little of the 
water. Slice the fruit (rind and pulp) very thinly, and soak 
24 hours in the rest of water. Strain the pips and add water 
from them to the rind. Boil the whole briskly about i 1/2 
hours or till rind is tender, then add sugar and boil for 
another 1/2 hour. Much time is saved by putting the fruit 
through the meat-chopper. 

CARROT AND ORANGE MARMALADE 

Scrape and put through food-chopper sufficient carrot to 
make 2 cups; add i orange cut in thin slices, barely cover 
with water, and cook until tender. Add the juice from 
2 lemons, a small piece of grated ginger root, and i cup of 
sugar. Cook slowly until thick, put in jars, and cover with 
melted paraffin. 

PEACH JAM AND MARMALADE 

Take ripe free-stone peaches, pare, and cut in small pieces. 
To every pound of peaches allow i /2 pound of white sugar. 
Put the sugar over the peaches and let them stand 2 hours; 
then put into a porcelain kettle on the fire, and boil slowly, 
stirring all the time until the fruit is mashed smooth and it 
almost jellies. 

For marmalade, add almost as much sugar as fruit. When 
done add to i /2 bushel of peaches i pint of hot brandy. 



FOOD ACCESSORIES 223 



GREEN TOMATO MARMALADE 

8 pounds green tomatoes i lemon cut fine 

7 pounds granulated sugar 4 dessertspoons ground ginger 

Make a syrup of the sugar by adding a little water. When 
boiling, drop into it the tomatoes, carefully washed and dried 
and all the spots removed, and cut in slices. Add the lemon 
and ginger. If the ginger is very fresh and strong a less quan- 
tity must be used. Boil all well together till thick and clear 
like marmalade. It will take some hours, boiling slowly. 
Stir occasionally to keep from burning. Put hot in jelly 
glasses. 

TOMATO MINCE MEAT 

8 quarts green tomatoes 2 tablespoons salt 
5 pounds brown sugar i cup vinegar 

2 pounds seeded raisins 2 tablespoons ground cloves 

Candied orange peel 2 tablespoons cinnamon 

A little citron I tablespoon nutmeg 

I teacup suet 

Chop the tomatoes fine or put them through a food- 
chopper. Draw off all the juice and add as much fresh water 
as juice and scald in this water. Drain off all this liquor, 
add the sugar, raisins, suet, vinegar, and salt, and cook 
until dark and thick (slow cooking is best). When cool, add 
the spices and candied fruit. When to be used add apple 
and cider or brandy. Put up in air-tight jars. 

TOMATO PRESERVE 

I pound ripe tomatoes after removing skins 
I pound granulated sugar 
Little ginger root 

Increase quantities in same proportion, as desired. Re- 
move skin from ginger root with boiling water. Boil 2 hours 



224 POOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

and add to every pound of sugar the grated rind of one 
lemon. Boil one half hour, or longer if too thin. Bottle hot. 

APPLE GINGER 

4 pounds apples i ounce ginger root, green preferred, 

4 pounds sugar but white will do 

1 pint water Grated rind 4 lemons 

Pare apples and chop fine with ginger root. Make a syrup 
of sugar and water, add apple and grated lemon rind, boil 
all slowly 2 hours or until it looks clear. 

CURRANT CONSERVE 

21/2 pounds currants 

I 1/2 pounds raisins, chopped 

21/2 pounds sugar 

2 oranges, grated rind and pulp 

Boil to jelly. 

CHIPPED PEARS 

8 pounds pears 1/4 pound Canton ginger 

4 pounds sugar 4 lemons 

Wipe the pears, peel, and cut in small pieces. Add the 
sugar and ginger and let stand overnight. In the morning 
add the lemons cut in small pieces and cook slowly 3 hours. 

PLUM CONSERVE (i) 

5 pounds plums, weighed after peeling and pitting 
5 pounds granulated sugar 

2 pounds seeded raisins (not the seedless ones) cut in small 

pieces 
4 oranges, grated rind, and pulp, chipped. 

Cook the plums 20 minutes before adding the sugar. Put 
in the sugar and bring to a boil. Add the raisins and the 



FOOD ACCESSORIES 225 

oranges and cook to a thick conserve. Put hot into jelly 
glasses. 

PLUM CONSERVE (2) 

5 pounds plums 2 oranges Quice and grated 

2 pounds seeded raisins rind) 

I pound walnuts 31/2 pounds sugar 

, Boil 40 minutes. 

RASPBERRY BAR-LE-DUC 

I quart perfect red raspberries 3 cups sugar . 

I cup currant juice i cup red raspberry juice 

Combine the fruit juices, add the sugar, let boil till they 
are very thick and almost like jelly. Drop in the raspberries 
one at a time, cook for 2 or 3 minutes, and remove with a 
skimmer to small glasses. When all the berries are cooked, 
the syrup will be considerably thinned, so boil it down till 
very thick again, pour into glasses containing the raspberries, 
and seal as usual. 

FRUrr BUTTER 

1/4 pound sugar to each pound fruit 
Do not add any water 

Peaches, pears, plums, or other fruit may be used sepa- 
rately or in combination. Skin and core the fruit. Cook until 
tender. Add the sugar, and cook until of the right thickness. 
Stir carefully while cooking, as it burns easily. 

QUINCE AND CRANBERRY JELLY 

2 quarts cranberries 
6 quinces 

3 quarts cold water 

Cook as for any jelly, and for each cup of strained juice, 
add a cup of sugar. 



I cup mixed whole spices 



226 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

PICKLING 

Sweet Pickles 

Watermelon, ripe cucumber, or green tomato 

8 pounds fruit 

4 pounds brown sugar 

I quart vinegar 

'Stick cinnamon (1/3) 
Cassia buds (1/6) 
Allspice berries (1/3) 

I Cloves (1/6) 
Cut watermelon in i /4 inch slices 
Cut cucumber in i /2 inch slices 
Cut tomatoes in eighths, if small 

Cook watermelon or cucumber until tender in boiling 
water to which has been added salt in proportions of 

I teaspoon salt 
I quart water 

Turn boiling salted water over tomatoes and set them on 
the back of the stove until tender. Always weigh fruit after 
cooking. Make syrup, cook fruit in it until clear. Spices may 
be put in a muslin bag and removed or allowed to remain 
through the fruit. Place fruit in sterile cans, evaporate syrup, 
cover, and seal. 

Oil Pickles 

5 dozen cucumbers — 4 inches long i cup mustard seed 
5 small onions 3 cups olive oil 

I cup celery salt Vinegar 

Slice cucumbers with onion, sprinkle with salt and let it 
stand 24 hours. Draw off the liquor and mix with the cucum- 
ber and onion, celery salt, mustard seed, and olive oil. Cover 
with vinegar and bottle after a few days. 



FOOD ACCESSORIES 227 

Chow Chow 

I gallon (8 pounds) green tomatoes, chopped 
I gallon (8 pounds) cucumbers, sliced 

1 gallon (4 pounds) cabbage, chopped 
1/2 gallon (4 pounds) onions 

2 pounds brown sugar 
1/2 cup salt 

1/4 pound white mustard seed 
2 ounces celery seed 
2 ounces turmeric (or not) 

2 teaspoons black pepper 

Mix, cover with vinegar, heat, and seal in sterile jars. 

Mustard Pickle 

2 quarts green tomatoes 2 quarts vinegar 

2 quarts small onions 4 tablespoons mustard 

4 green peppers i tablespoon turmeric powder 

1 quart small cucumbers 2/3 cup flour 

2 cauliflower 31/2 cups sugar 

Cut the vegetables in pieces and sprinkle with salt and 
let stand overnight. In the morning boil in brine a few min- 
utes and drain. Scald the vinegar, mix the mustard, flour, 
and turmeric to a paste with water. Add to the vinegar, and 
when thick, add the vegetables. Heat through and put in 
jars. 

Pepper Hash 

12 red peppers or 2 cups when chopped 
12 green peppers or 2 cups when chopped 
25 onions or 14 cups when chopped 
Chop fine and cover with boiling water 

for 5 minutes, drain 
Scald I quart vinegar"! 

3 cups sugar > Cook for 20 minutes 
2 tablespoons salt J 



228 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

Chili Sauce 

15 large ripe tomatoes 
6 onions 

4 red peppers 

1/2 head cabbage or i small one 
Sugar to taste 
3 tablespoons salt 

5 cups vinegar 

Chop all fine and cook i hour, and then stir in 
I tablespoon cinnamon 
I tablespoon mustard 
I tablespoon celery salt 
I teaspoon cloves 
Seal for use 

Chutney 

1 pound apples, peeled 12 ripe tomatoes, medium size 
3/4 pound raisins I ounce white mustard seed 

6 small onions 4 ounces salt 

2 red or green peppers 

Skin the tomatoes and put through the meat-chopper. 
Pour off as much juice as possible from them. Put the other 
vegetables through the chopper, then into a crock. Boil 
I quart of vinegar and 2 cups of sugar. When cool pour it 
over the other ingredients in the crock and stir occasionally 
for a few days. 



CHAPTER XIV 

THE USE OF FOOD IN THE BODY 

Foods must primarily furnish an adequate supply of 
food material, but they must also furnish this material 
in such form as can be utilized by the sys- a process of 
tem. This process of food utilization is combustion 
really one of combustion, similar to that in a stove or 
furnace where the fuel material combines with oxygen 
and gives off heat. It takes place in the cells of all tissue 
and is very slow. Food material, like any other fuel, if 
burned in the air, can be entirely consumed, leaving 
nothing but ashes, but when utilized in the body the 
process of combustion is slower and less complete. 

Before combustion can take place in the body all 
food must be put into the form in which it can be car- 
ried by the blood and utilized by the cells. The first 
step in this process is to change solid foods into fluids. 
For this, plenty of water must be supplied either be- 
tween meals or with the meals. The insoluble foods 
that cannot be put directly into solution must be 
changed into chemical compounds that can be dis- 
solved. These processes are partly mechanical and 
partly chemical. 

THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION 

The organs that accomplish this work in the body in- 
clude the following: the mouth, the stomach, the small 
intestine, and the large intestine. These are arranged as 
we see them on the accompanying figure. This shows 



230 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 



also the lungs, the heart, and the liver, all of which play 
an important part in the whole process of the utili- 
zation of food. The lungs are the source of supply for 

the oxygen which en- 
ters into combination 
with the food in the 
process of combus- 
tion, and the liver 
acts as a storehouse 
for the food as it 
is taken up by the 
blood from the in- 
testines before it is 
scattered to the vari- 
ous tissues through- 
out the body. 
In considering these 

Mouth ^^^^"^^"^^^^ 
part each plays 

in digestion, we shall 

begin with the mouth. 

Here the action is 

largely physical or 

mechanical. The 

teeth grind the food, and the saliva flowing constantly 

from the glands into the mouth supplies the liquid 

to dissolve the ground-up food, or at least soften it 

so that the other juices can dissolve it. Here in the 

saliva we have the first one of a group of interesting 

chemical compounds that are provided by nature to 

cause chemical changes. Their action is somewhat 

similar to the action of the molds and yeasts. Those 

micro-organisms, however, are called "organized fer- 




THE USE OF FOOD IN THE BODY 231 

ments," because they themselves grow, and in the 
process of growing secrete substances which cause 
chemical changes in the surrounding food material. 
The substances in the body which serve such a very 
important function in the process of digestion are 
called "unorganized ferments," because they simply 
cause chemical changes without changing themselves. 
Their scientific name is "enzyme," and in order to ex- 
plain them, the simile is often used of the lock and 
key, each key fitting one peculiar lock and one only, so 
that each enzyme can cause one chemical change for 
one particular food, and if it does not have a chance to 
work, the food goes unchanged or undigested. This fact 
shows the great importance of proper mastication of 
food. The saliva must become thoroughly mixed with 
the food substance in order that the enzyme which it 
contains may act upon starch, converting it into sugar. 
This action continues while the food passes down the 
throat into the stomach and there continues for a time 
while the food is more or less stratified. 

In the stomach among the substances present in the 
gastric juice is free hydrochloric acid which ultimately 
stops the action of the saliva on starch. Action in the 
If then the starch is not acted upon by the stomach 
saliva, it passes unchanged through the stomach into 
the small intestine which gives it an opportunity to be- 
come fermented. The gastric juice contains enzymes as 
well as hydrochloric acid. The most important of these 
is pepsin which acts on protein material, breaking it 
down into two simpler forms. Rennin, another enzyme, 
is also present in the gastric juice; this has the effect of 
curdling milk; a singular action because the aim of all 
digestion is to put food into soluble form, whereas the 



232 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

curdling of milk is solidifying the protein material that 
is already in liquid form. These solid proteins are re- 
dissolved by the aid of the pepsin in the gastric 
juices. The juices of the stomach have little effect on 
fats except to put some into emulsified form. The 
acid present in the stomach also dissolves the cell 
walls that surround fat globules, making it possible for 
the juices of the intestines to act upon the fat. 

Up to this point the processes of digestion are largely 
preparatory. Certain of the simpler protein compounds 
Action in small and some mineral matter are directly used 
intestine ^y t^g body from the stomach, being 

taken up by the blood through the walls of the stomach. 
The largest proportion of the food, however, passes on 
to the small intestine. Here the great work of digestion 
goes on. The food itself is pushed along by muscular 
action, entirely involuntary. In fact all of the process 
of digestion is involuntary after the food leaves the 
mouth. In the small intestine we have three dis- 
tinct secretions, each containing important enzymes. 
The first of these is the secretion from the pancreatic 
gland. This contains enzymes which complete the 
change of starch to sugar; break up fats and reduce 
protein substances to their simplest forms. 

From the walls of the intestines we have the second 
of the secretions. This contains enzymes which act 
upon each of the distinct, complex sugars, reducing 
them to simpler forms. 

The third of these intestinal secretions is the bile, 
which makes the conditions for all of these changes 
more favorable, helping especially in the digestion of 
fats. All of these secretions are alkaline and neutralize 
the acid carried in from the stomach. 



THE USE OF FOOD IN THE BODY 233 

There are no digestive enzymes present in the large 
intestine. The mechanical motion of this intestine, 
however, works the food back and forth, Large 
forcing it back into the small intestine to intestine 
insure as complete digestion as possible. The waste 
that is left is then eliminated from the body. The 
movements of this tract should be normal. If they are 
too rapid the patient suffers with diarrhea. If they are 
too sluggish a condition of constipation results. Hence 
bulky foods such as fruits and green vegetables, and 
acid foods, as oranges, lemons, and tomatoes, are de- 
sirable in the diet because they have an exciting effect 
on the action of the intestines. 

INFLUENCES FOR GOOD DIGESTION 

The flow of all of the digestive secretions is depend- 
ent upon several things. Perhaps the most important 
is a regular time for meals. The system becomes ad- 
justed to a regular demand for the flow of these diges- 
tive juices, and the supply corresponds to the demand. 
Also, proper mastication is always a signal to the secre- 
tions of the stomach and intestines to be ready for their 
share in the work. The sight, smell, and taste of foods 
have a direct effect upon the flow of the juices. Fre- 
quently one does not feel hungry until one has a whiff 
of food being prepared for dinner. Then the familiar 
gnawing feeling of hunger becomes apparent. This is a 
physiological fact caused by the flow of the secretions, 
due to the odor of food. The nervous state of the person 
has a direct effect on the flow of the secretions. Fa- 
tigue, worry, and anger all tend to retard digestion, so 
that it is far better for a very tired person to take a 
glass of warm milk or a cup of soup, even if it is near 



234 POOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

the regular meal hour, and rest for an hour before 
eating a hearty meal. Attractive service and pleasing 
companionship both tend to good digestion. Good 
humor at meal time is a valuable aid to digestion. 

Concentrated foods such as sugar have a very irri- 
tating effect on the lining of the intestinal tract, which 
is one reason why candy is unwholesome between 
meals. The proportion in which fats, protein, and car- 
bohydrate are eaten, affects digestion. Since fat is so 
largely digested in the intestines, food that is coated 
with fat, as are foods fried in fat, pass through the 
stomach without giving the juices in the stomach a 
chance to work upon the food material, hence, fatty 
foods cannot be easily digested by delicate persons or 
those of sedentary habits, but may be by vigorous 
persons doing heavy exercise who are able to utilize 
the energy provided by foods retained a long time in 
the intestines. 

The part so far described of the process of the utiliza- 
tion of foods in the body is called digestion. The next 
stage of the process is called absorption. 

ABSORPTION 

When the food has been put into soluble form it en- 
ters the circulation and is distributed as needed to 
the various tissues throughout the body. The greatest 
amount of absorption takes place in the small intes- 
tine, though some of the mineral salts and the simpler 
proteins are absorbed from the stomach, and some food 
can be used by the body from the larger intestine, as is 
proved by the ability to keep a patient alive when 
rectal feeding alone has to be relied upon. Only such 
foods can be used for rectal feeding, however, as are 



THE USE OF FOOD IN THE BODY 235 

predigested, since there are no enzymes present in the 
large intestines. 

USES OF FOOD IN THE BODY 

The food material as absorbed is carried by the 
blood, together with oxygen taken up from the lungs, 
to each cell in every part of the body. Utilization of 
this food material by the cells constitutes life and is not 
thoroughly known. The protoplasm of the cell itself 
plays an important part in this process. Some of the 
material is utilized by the cell for repair and new 
growth. The rest of the material goes through the 
process of combustion or oxidation which is caused by 
the activity of the cells. Starch, now in the form of 
sugar, sugars, and fats are burned to form carbonic 
acid and water. If these foods are eaten in excess of the 
body requirements they are stored in the body as fat. 
Hence a constant gain in weight of an adult is a sign 
of over-eating or under- exercise, and can be avoided 
with care of the diet. It is a sign of self-indulgence. In 
the burning of protein, on the other hand, the process 
is not so complete. Some of the hydrogen and of the 
carbon as well as the nitrogen is left in the waste prod- 
ucts which are carried off in the urine in the form of 
urea and uric acid. Hence the heat produced from 
protein food is less in the body than if the same foods 
were burned in the furnace. 

THE ELIMINATION OF WASTES 

In this process of utilization of the food substances 
by the cells to obtain muscular energy with its resulting 
heat, there are certain waste products. These are car- 
ried by the blood to the various points in the body 



236 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

where they are thrown off. Some of these waste prod- 
ucts are the nitrogenous compounds spoken of in the 
paragraph above. These compounds are the natural 
result of cell activity and if protein is not provided in 
the food it will be taken from the cell itself, which 
causes the wasting away of the tissue. These products 
are carried by the blood to the kidneys where they are 
excreted. A second waste product is carbon dioxide, 
which is carried by the venous blood back to the lungs 
and is exhaled. A third waste product is water. This 
can be given off from the lungs in the form of water 
vapor, or excreted from the kidneys in urine, or from 
the skin as perspiration. "Insensible perspiration" by 
a person at rest may amount to 60 per cent of the 
water eliminated through the kidneys. It may be many 
times as much in the case of a person at hard labor. 
The last waste product is the mineral matter from the 
food in excess of body requirements. Some of this is 
returned to the digestive tract and eliminated through 
the large intestine. The elements eliminated in this 
way are phosphorus, calcium, and iron, while others, 
such as potassium and sodium, are found in the urine. 



I o 

tirt" 

C rt K 
n (J o 



a 5 



c « 5 .H > 



3 « ^ 

I c = S 



■5 8 s: E a 



^ 13 





a 




■^^ 




1 


JO 

*«3 


>> 

.a 


bo 

a 




t 


Xi 


m 


a 
























X: 




u 


V. 


3 


<Ci 





u 




■a I II a. 

EC 3 n C 

V So .t; '- -i 
Xi t^ *0 hi) u 

K o O .S t3 



I 



CHAPTER XV 

THE MEASUREMENT OF FOOD VALUES 

According to the definition of food that we gave when 
we were discussing the chemical composition of foods, 
Body need we said that there were two functions for 
for fuel food in the body. The first of these was the 

providing of heat and energy, and the other the build- 
ing of tissue. The body is similar to any machine in 
that it must have fuel of some sort to keep it going. 
An automobile is absolutely helpless with an empty gas- 
oline tank, and a locomotive is powerless to pull a heavy 
train unless steam is supplied by the boiler. The body 
also, in order to perform work of any kind, must have 
fuel. The work performed is of two kinds. Whenever 
we move a muscle, we are performing work; in taking 
a step the body must lift its own weight. Of course the 
more violent the work done by the body, the more the 
fuel that must be provided. The body, however, is doing 
another type of work all the time, like a clock. The 
heart is ever in motion, performing enough work in the 
course of twenty-four hours to be sufficient to raise a 
man twenty-five hundred feet. At the same time, with 
every breath we take there is muscular energy ex- 
pended in the expansion and contraction of the lungs 
and diaphragm. Also every meal eaten must be di- 
gested, and this requires from three to five hours of 
steady muscular activity. 

There is no other way to obtain all of the fuel thus 
required by the body except from the food we eat. The 



MEASUREMENT OF FOOD VALVES 239 

sun is the source of all energy on the earth. Plants are 
able to transform this energy received from 
the sun in the form of light and heat into 
chemical substances, combining it with elements from 
the air, soil, and water to form energy-bearing sub- 
stances which are stored in its tissues. As we have seen, 
these are carbohydrates, fats, and proteins. They are 
found in all kinds of vegetable foods in different pro- 
portions and can be used directly as human food. Or 
they may be used as food for animals and the energy 
contained in them utilized for the life processes of the 
animal and transformed into animal flesh. Only a small 
percentage of the energy in the plants is left to be 
stored in the flesh of the animal, since most of it must 
be utilized for muscular energy and heat. The animal's 
flesh, however, which contains fat and protein, is also 
used for human food, and becomes another source of 
fuel for the body. 

When comparing one piece of string with another 
piece, we use a unit of measure as a basis for compari- 
son; we say one is three feet long and the Heat unit: 
other five feet, the foot rule being a stand- calorie 
ard measure for length. In the same way we say one 
stone weighs two pounds and another one four pounds, 
the pound being the unit of measure for weight. In the 
same way it is necessary to have a standard unit of 
measure in order to compare the amount of heat given 
by one food as compared with that given by another. 
For this purpose the calorie is used. Scientifically the 
calorie is very carefully defined with allowances made 
for air pressure and other technical qualifications. For 
our purpose, however, it is necesscuy to know only 
that it is the term for the quantity of heat required 



240 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

to raise one pint of water 4° F. For instance, if two 
cupfuls of water are drawn from the faucet and placed 
in a saucepan, the temperature of the water will prob- 
ably be about 50° F. If this quantity of water is placed 
over a gas flame and the temperature watched with a 
thermometer, by the time the water has been raised 
from 50° F. to 54° F. we have burned up one calorie of 
heat in the form of gas. It is to be remembered that 
a calorie is always the measure for a quantity of heat. 
With the calorie used as a standard, the various food 
substances have been actually burned in order to find 
how much heat a given weight would produce. This 
is very carefully done in an instrument known as the 
bomb calorimeter. A known weight of the food to be 
examined is burned in pure oxygen in a gas-tight 
chamber surrounded by a known quantity of water. 
The change in the temperature of the water will show 
the amount of heat liberated. In this way all of our 
American food materials have been examined, and the 
number of calories produced by a pound of each has 
been published in a long list by the Bureau of Chemis- 
try of the Department of Agriculture. It has also been 
found that the food will yield to the body practically 
the same amount of heat that it does when it is burned 
in the calorimeter. The pure food substances will give 
the following quantities of heat : 

Food substance Quantity Calories 

Pure carbohydrate... i oz. 113 

Pure protein i oz. 113 

Pure fat i oz. 256 

We notice that fat yields two and a quarter times as 
much heat for a given weight as do carbohydrates and 
proteins. The two latter yield the same amount. 



Quantity 


Calories 


I gram 


4.1 


I gram 


4.1 


I gram 


9-3 



MEASUREMENT OF FOOD VALUES 241 

Foods then which contain a large amount of fat are the 
best fuel food. 

Foods which contain a large amount of water and 
woody fiber have a proportionately low fuel value. 

The figures as published by the Department of Agri- 
culture are extremely complex and are not in a form 
that can be readily used by the average loo-calorie 
housekeeper. In order to overcome this POJ^oJis 
difficulty, Dr. Langworthy of the Department devised 
the scheme known as One Hundred Calorie Portions; 
that is, he found that many of our common food ma- 
terials were approximately one hundred calories in the 
quantity ordinarily used in the household. These por- 
tions are only approximate and therefore discrepancies 
are found in different lists. ^ Some of the most common 
of these portions are as follows: 

Butter or other fats, i tablespoon 

Bread, I slice (3 in. x 3 1/2 in. x i in.) 

Uneeda, 4 crackers 

Orange, i large 

Eggs, I 1/3 medium 

Potato, I medium 

Meat, 2 ounces, cooked, lean 

Sugar, 2 tablespoons, granulated 

Sweet chocolate, about 3/4 ounces 

After it is known how much fuel our foods can give 
to the body, it is necessary to know how much the body 
actually needs. The test of a normal diet a sufficient 
for an adult is the maintenance of an *^®* 
average weight together with full health and efficiency. 
For a child it is shown by a steady gain in weight, by 

> The most usable list of these portions is to be found in the appendix of Feeding the 
Family, by Mary Swartz Rose. (Macmillan, igi?-) 



242 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

good color, quiet sleep, and general good nature. If an 
adult is steadily losing in weight and there are no path- 
ological conditions to account for it, it is pretty sure 
that something is wrong with either the kind or the 
quantity of the food eaten. If on the other hand, a per- 
son is steadily gaining in weight, he is not exercising 
sufficiently for the amount of food eaten ; or, to put the 
same idea in another way, he is eating more than his 
daily needs require. It is quite possible to find a point 
at which the body weight can be maintained where the 
individual is at his best and does not feel dragged out 
at four o'clock in the afternoon. When this point is 
once found, it can and should be maintained with care 
and thought. 

In order to find actual figures to state the body's re- 
quirements, studies were made in two ways. The first, 
known as the statistical method, was a study of the 
actual food consumed by groups of people living a nor- 
mal life and performing the same type of work. Many 
of these studies have been made all over the world. 
The other one, known as the experimental method, 
was a study of the actual food requirements of differ- 
ent individuals living under different conditions. This 
required an elaborate apparatus known as the respira- 
tion calorimeter by which it was possible to measure 
under fixed conditions the amount of energy given off 
from the body in the form of work and heat. The re- 
sults obtained from both of these methods showed that 
the food required varies directly with the amount of 
energy expended; that is, the man digging a ditch in 
the street and the lumberman at work in the Maine 
woods require far more food than a man who sits at 
his desk all day, or even than the man who stands be- 



MEASUREMENT OF FOOD VALUES 243 

hind the counter day after day. Food requirements 
were also found to vary with the age of the individual, 
the sex, the body weight, and the mode of life. Growing 
boys and girls, particularly between the ages of fourteen 
and twenty, were found to require actually more food 
than their fathers and mothers, though their body 
weight was less. As the individual grows older, the life 
processes slow down and not so much food is required. 
With these points in mind, certain definite stand- 
ards on a twenty-four hour basis have Dietary 
been adopted for different occupations as standards 
follows: 

Mode of Life Women Men 

{Calories) {Calories) 

Those who sit at their work 2000 2500 

Those who stand at their work 2400 3000 

Those who use back muscles at their work.. . 2800 3500-6000 

It might be of interest to note that the United States 
Army active service ration is 4500 calories, and that at 
one of our big boys' schools, the boys were eating 5000 
calories a day. The average amount needed by a woman 
doing her own housework is 2400 to 2500 calories a 
day. The days she does the washing or hard scrub- 
bing, she should eat more than on other days, and she 
should not allow herself to become so tired that she 
cannot eat at all. This can be prevented by taking a 
glass of milk with bread and butter in the middle of 
the morning before she gets too tired to eat her dinner. 

When speaking of food requirements, we must take 
into consideration other things besides the fuel value 
of the food itself. According to our defini- j^gg^ ^^^ 
tion of food, the providing of energy and building 
heat is only half of the work done by foods. ™^*®^^ 
The other half is the providing of the actual material out 



244 J^OOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

of which the body is built; that is, our bodies are far 
more wonderful than any man-made machine. If an 
automobile bursts a tire or loses an important nut, no 
amount of gasoline burned in the engine will mend the 
tire or will replace the nut. If, however, a child breaks 
an arm or has a cut finger, all that the doctor does is 
to set the bone straight, or make sure that there is no 
dirt in the cut. The healing process in both cases is 
carried on entirely by the body itself. The blood brings 
to the injured tissue those elements which are neces- 
sary to make new tissue. 

The building material needed by the body and to be 
supplied by the food has already been spoken of, but 
Protein we wiU review it rapidly here. The most 

needed important is nitrogen, which is provided 

in all protein foods and is required for different tissues. 
It is thought that different proteins provide building 
material for different tissues. Some of the proteins in 
our foods are better than others for muscle-building 
material, and so we have what are known as complete 
and incomplete proteins. Gelatine belongs to this latter 
class of proteins. Since the value of protein foods 
varies in this way, it is well to use a variety of protein 
foods and not to rely upon a single food for the sole 
source of nitrogenous material in the body. 

The quantity of protein absolutely required by each 
man in twenty-four hours has been under discussion 
for some years. Dr. Atwater felt that 125 grams was 
not too much. In recent years, however, it has been 
found possible to maintain bodily health on a smaller 
quantity, from 80 to 90 grams. With war conditions, 
the protein content of the diet was very greatly re- 
duced in some countries, esi>ecially in Belgium and 



MEASUREMENT OF FOOD VALVES 245 

Germany. What effect this will have on the future 
health of the nation time alone will show, although 
figures are already coming in which indicate a great 
loss of power to resist disease, an increase in tubercu- 
losis, and a greatly increased death-rate. A recent 
newspaper report from Russia indicated that it is 
thought the great increase in the number of babies 
which are born blind is due to the under-nourished 
condition of the mothers. 

If the diet of an adult contains from 2 1/2 to 3 ounces 
of protein foods in a day, it is thought that sufficient 
nitrogen will be provided the body for all ordinary 
requirements. Convalescents, who need more building 
material, should have slightly more, and care should 
be taken that growing children should have, not more 
protein foods necessarily, but that the protein should 
be of the best type, such as is found in milk and eggs. 
In order to help the housekeeper figure out how much 
protein the family are getting, a table of half-ounce 
protein portions has been devised.^ This must not be 
confused with the one hundred calorie portion, since 
that gives total fuel value, while this gives the amount 
of food which would contain approximately one half 
ounce of protein. These are as follows: 

One half Ounce Protein Portions 

Milk, whole or skimmed, i pint 

Eggs, 2 

Cottage cheese, 1/4 cup, or 2 ounces 

American cheese, i 1/4 inch cube, or 2 ounces 

Peanuts, shelled, 2 ounces 

1 This table and the following ones are taken from Food and the War, published 
by the United States Food Administration, 1918. 



246 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

Lean meat, without bone, 21/4 ounces, 

or a piece 2 x 2 x 3/4 in. 
Fish, a similar piece 
Beans, dried, cooked, i 1/2 cups 
Cereal, cooked, 2 1/3 to 3 cups 
Bread, 6 slices, 3 1/2 X3x 1/2 in. 

In order to get two and a half to three ounces of 
protein a day, five or six of these portions should be 
included in the course of the day's meals. 

Sulphur and phosphorus are both essential ingredi- 
ents of all body protein, and occur in foods wherever 
Other sub- nitrogen is found. Phosphorus is also 
stances needed found in Other foods, so that if the protein 
content of our food is sufficient, these will be also. 

The body must also have certain mineral salts in 
order to keep it in good condition. The iron needed by 
the blood and entering into the structure of all active 
cells is found in egg-yolks, green vegetables, especially 
spinach, and meats. It is thought that 15 milligrams 
of iron are required daily. Social workers find that 
among the poor the diet is apt to lack iron more than 
any other constituent. The following list shows por- 
tions of food each of which contains approximately 
two milligrams of iron, so that seven and a half of 
these portions should be used daily: 

Portions contaimng Two Milligrams Iron 

White flour, 200 grams, enough for 3/4 pound bread 

Graham flour, 40 grams, or 2 medium slices of bread 

Egg-yolk, 22 grams, or from i 1/2 to 2 eggs 

Lean meat, 50 grams, about 2 ounces 

Spinach, raw, 2 ounces, cooked, about 1/3 cup 

String beans, a little over 1/3 pound, about i 1/4 cups 



MEASUREMENT OF FOOD VALUES 247 

Potato, I good-sized 

Sweet potato, almost i pound 

Oranges, 4 large 

Milk, 810 grams, almost i quart 

Another mineral which is very important for the 
growth of bones and teeth is calcium. The chief source 
of calcium in the diet is milk but it is also found to 
some extent in other foods. The body's daily require- 
ment for calcium is 0.67 gram. This is found in the 
following foods: 

Portions containing Total Calcium Requirement for One Day 

Milk, less than i 1/4 pints 
Cheese, 21/2 ounces 
White flour, over 7 pounds 
Beef, 21 pounds 
Turnips, 21/3 pounds 
Carrots, 21/2 pounds 

The other chemical elements necessary for the 
proper health and growth of the body are found in 
fruits and green vegetables; so also are the "vitamine" 
substances essential for growth. If this class of foods 
is well represented in the diet, together with a variety 
of other foods, all these substances will be provided in 
sufficient amounts. 



CHAPTER XVI 

THE MAKING OF MENUS 

In these times of high prices the all-absorbing question 
is how to reduce the H.C.L., or the high cost of living. 
_ ... It necessitates a careful study of the wise 

Cost of food ..... r 11 

distribution of money and the amount 
that should be spent for food. Since an adequate quan- 
tity of nourishing food is absolutely necessary for the 
maintenance of health and efficiency of the family, the 
proportion of the income to be devoted to food is far 
higher to-day than it was some years ago when budgets 
were first made out on a percentage basis. In an article 
in the Journal of the American Medical Association for 
February 2, 191 8, it was stated that "A reasonably 
satisfactory diet, . . . could not, at prices prevailing a 
few months ago, be purchased by a family of average 
size for less than ten cents a thousand calories and in 
most instances for not less than twelve cents." In order 
then for a man to obtain the 3000 calories he needs, he 
would have to spend at the very least thirty cents a 
day and he would be doing well if he could get it under 
thirty-five. 

The following recommendations for low-cost diets 
are made by one organization: 

1. Spend from one fourth to one third of food money for 
breads, cereals, macaroni, and rice. 

2. Buy at least from one third to one half quart of milk 
a day for each member of the family. 

3. Spend as much for vegetables and fruits together as 



THE MAKING OF MENUS 249 

you do for milk. If you use one half quart of milk for 
each member of the family, this may not always be 
possible, then spend as much for vegetables and fruits 
as one third quart of milk a day per person would 
cost. 
4. Spend not more for meat and eggs than for vegetables 
and fruit. The amount spent for meat may decrease as 
the amount spent for milk increases. 

In counting the cost of food as served, the amount 
of work required for its preparation must be considered 
as well as the actual cost of materials. It may some- 
times be well for a busy mother to put more money 
into food purchased which would require less time in 
preparation, so that she may be able to enjoy the 
meal with her family, instead of being so over-fatigued 
by the cooking that she is neither a good companion 
for her children nor in fit condition to eat the meal 
herself. 

The ideal division of three dollars spent for food 
might be as follows: 

Meat and fish O.60 

Fats and sweets 50 

Fruit and vegetables 60 

Cereals 50--30 

Milk 60 

Eggs I5--25 

Other things 05- .25 

(These figures are based on actual figures of the money spent by 
2000 families.) 

As the cost of the dietary is decreased meat should 
never be used more than once a day. Eggs can only be 
used in cooking and then not often. Milk must be used 
in quantity as in cream soups, sauces, puddings, etc. 



250 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

Pastry and other rich foods must be left out and plenty 
of green vegetables and fruit put in. Oleomargarine 
must be used instead of butter and skimmed milk 
instead of whole. 

In order that it may be readily seen whether all the 
necessary food constituents are present in the daily 
Five food diet, food substances are grouped con- 

groups veniently into five classes based upon 

their chemical composition: 

1. Mineral salt group: Fruits and vegetables 

2. Protein group: Meat, milk, eggs, fish, etc. 

3. Starch group: Cereals and breadstuffs 

4. Fat group: Butter, oils, and other fats 

5. Sugar group: Sugar, jellies, jams, dried fruits, etc. 

The first two of these groups provide the materials 
out of which the body is built; the other three are 
primarily heat- and energy-producing foods. In plan- 
ning the meals for every day we must see that each 
group is well represented in each day's diet, although 
not necessarily in each meal. We must also make sure 
that the quantity of food, especially from the energy- 
yielding groups (Nos. 3, 4, and 5), should vary with 
the type of work of the different members of the fam- 
ily. The one who is doing the heaviest muscular work 
should have the largest serving of the macaroni and 
cheese while the one who is sitting indoors all day 
should eat lightly of this dish and be content with the 
vegetable. Groups I and 3, the vegetables and the 
starchy foods, should be used freely as a basis for the 
diet, while the other groups should be used to give 
variety to the meal. It is not necessary to have many 
dishes, but we must make sure that the ones we do have 



THE MAKING OF MENUS 251 

represent different groups of foods. Do not serve boiled 
rice and spaghetti at the same meal. In substituting 
one food for another be sure to see that the substitute 
food belongs to the same group as the one to be sub- 
stituted. For instance, when butter is very high, it 
should properly be replaced by oleomargarine or 
drippings rather than by jam or molasses. In the same 
way green vegetables can be replaced in the winter 
time by root vegetables and not by rice nor macaroni. 

The man who requires 3000 calories a day because of 
his moderate work, might divide it up as follows: 

Richer and more Plainer and Cheaper 
Expensive Diet Diet 

Vegetables and fruits from 2 1/2 lbs. down to i 1/2 lbs. 

Milk 8 oz. 8 oz. 

Meat and eggs, cheese, etc. . . .from 14 oz. down to 6 oz. 

(Use 2 oz. less for every additional 1/2 pt. of milk) 

Cereals from 8 oz. up to 16 oz. 

Sweets from 3 oz. down to I 1/2 oz. 

Fats from 3 oz. down to I 1/2 oz. 

A moderately active woman should use four fifths of 
this quantity. 

The distribution of the total number of calories into 
meals for each day should be done so as to promote 
digestibility and satisfaction. Digestion is Division of 
better on a mixed diet, but the activity of food into 
the Individual should be taken into con- ™®*^ 
sideratlon. A laboring man who has an hour for his 
dinner in the middle of the day can handle easily a 
substantial meal with its cheese or pork or beans be- 
cause he has time to rest before continuing his physi- 
cal exertions. On the other hand a professional or 
business man usually takes as short a time as possible 
for his lunch and hurries back immediately to his desk. 



252 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

For this reason his lunch should be light and should 
be made up of such foods as can be digested without 
effort. Cereal and fruit with a glass of milk make a 
very good lunch for a busy man, while pastry, dough- 
nuts, and other forms of rich food should always be 
avoided. 

When the life of the individual is knov/n, regularity 
of meal hours should be carefully maintained and the 
quantity of food taken at each meal should be approxi- 
mately the same, day after day. It is customary to 
divide the total amount of food needed in the twenty- 
four hours into three meals, two of which are compara- 
tively light and the third heavy. Whether the heavy 
meal is taken in the middle of the day or at night, it 
should contain about half of the total number of calo- 
ries needed for the day. The other two meals, breakfast 
and lunch or supper, would then each contain about 
a quarter of the number. For instance, if 2400 calories 
is the amount required, breakfast would have 600, 
luncheon 600, and dinner 1200. For many people, how- 
ever, it is more satisfactory to have their food more 
evenly divided in the meals. In this case each meal 
would contain about 800 calories or a third of the total. 
Others find two meals a day very satisfactory, and still 
others find it necessary to take their food in smaller 
quantities at more frequent intervals. Experience 
must determine which is best. 

Each meal should be a unit in itself, but at the same 
time the meals should be planned for several days at a 
Variety time, SO as to avoid repetition and uneven - 

essential ^ess of quantity. It might be possible to 

obtain from oatmeal and macaroni alone a good part 
of the food elements necessary, but a meal consisting 



THE MAKING OF MENUS 253 

of these two foods and nothing else would be unsatis- 
factory. Variety stimulates the appetite. It is also well 
to consider the harmonious blending of flavor, color, 
texture, and temperature of foods. It is more satisfac- 
tory on a cold day to begin a meal with a hot dish such 
as soup instead of chilled grapefruit. So also we would 
not like to repeat similar flavors in the same meal. If 
we serve a tomato bisque soup, a tomato sauce with 
the meat course or a tomato salad is to be avoided. 
There are some dishes which seem to go together natu- 
rally, such as peas with lamb chops, currant jelly with 
venison, cheese with cold apple pie, and bacon with 
liver. Some other dishes, which we find in constant use, 
however, are not such wise combinations as these. In 
chicken or lobster salad we have so much fat in con- 
nection with protein material that the salad is difficult 
to digest. The same is true with bacon and eggs. Grid- 
dle cakes also as usually eaten with a large amount of 
butter and syrup are not a food for a person with a 
delicate digestion, since the starch is so rapidly cooked 
that it is not cooked thoroughly. 

Breakfast varies in heartiness with the habits of the 
family, but customarily is practically the same, morn- 
ing after morning, in the same family. Where there are 

school-children, it is important to see _ 
, , n- • 1 • -1 Breakfast 

that they start on m the mornmg with a 

suitable breakfast eaten without haste or worry. The 

simplest breakfast is known as the Continental one, 

which consists merely of toast or hot bread and a hot 

drink, tea coffee, or cocoa. To this fruit is frequently 

added, making a very satisfactory breakfast for an 

adult who does not expect to have a busy morning. 

For busier people, however, a dish of cereal should be 



254 J^OOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

added to this breakfast. The cereal by rights should 
make up the main part of the meal for adults as well 
as for children. If the third group, the starch one, is 
well represented and is eaten, as is usually the case, 
with milk or cream, no other form of protein food is 
necessary at breakfast. We should have our five groups 
represented, fruit from the first, milk from the second, 
cereal and toast or breadstuff s from the third, butter 
on the toast and cream on the cereal from the fourth, 
and the fifth, which might be easily omitted, is usu- 
ally present in the sweetening of the coffee or cocoa 
and is also represented in the fruit. If eggs can be af- 
forded, they are a pleasing way of introducing more 
building material for growing children, but are not ab- 
solutely necessary if a glass of milk is drunk and a big 
dish of cereal is eaten. 

Americans are very apt to err on the size of their 
breakfast. There are many men like the one who in- 
sisted that he ate a light breakfast, and when asked 
what it usually was, said, "Fruit to begin with, then a 
dish of cereal with cream, then a chop or two or a piece 
of steak with toast or hot muffins and coffee, and, oh, 
yes, usually some griddle cakes or waffles to end off 
with." Such a man would certainly need to walk to his 
office before starting in with a hard day's work, but the 
man who can afford such a breakfast is apt to ride to 
town in his limousine and then wonders why he has 
dyspepsia or bilious attacks. 

The other light meal of the day, whether it is 
luncheon or supper, is usually the meal in which left- 
Ltincheon overs are used. Here again group three, or 
and supper the starchy foods, may be the basis if there 
is plenty of variety in the other meals. There are many 



THE MAKING OF MENUS 255 

fomis of cereals which can be used to give a variety 
and not resemble breakfast. Boiled rice, served either 
with cream and sugar, with maple syrup, or with 
maple sugar, makes a good basis for such a meal. So 
also would a large dish of creamed macaroni and 
spaghetti with or without cheese, and varied some- 
times by being made with tomato instead of milk. 
Fried cornmeal mush, French toast, and even griddle 
cakes or waffles might be used occasionally for this 
meal for the older young people and adults. They 
would, of course, not be given to children. Other dishes 
which may well find a place at this meal are creamed 
soups, hearty salads, cheese dishes, nut loaves, or stuffed 
eggs when used with fresh greens or fruit and plenty 
of breadstuffs. If milk is introduced in some form or 
other at this meal either as soup or in the scalloped 
dish or in the pudding, we should be quite satisfied that 
the boys and girls coming from school were getting a 
suitable lunch. 

The hearty meal of the day, whether at noon or at 
night, is usually made up of all five groups. The prob- 
lem is more difficult to handle in those 
families where the school-children should 
have their hearty meal in the middle of the day and 
the busy father of the family should have his at night. 
It really amounts to serving two dinners a day, al- 
though by a judicious use of cold meat, together with 
plenty of hot dishes for the children at noon, and by 
putting salads instead of a heavy dessert with the 
roast at night, it can be worked out satisfactorily for 
both. It is not necessary to have many dishes, as all 
the groups may be represented in four dishes or even 
less. This is the meal at which it is customary to serve 



256 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

meat, but other protein foods, fish, cheese, or the pulses, 
might easily be used to take its place occasionally. The 
starch group is present in the form of potato, macaroni, 
rice, and breadstuffs. One green vegetable is usually 
served but it would be well to add another or a simple 
salad. If fruit is used for dessert as well, the mineral 
salt group would be well represented. The other two 
groups are found in the oil on the salad, in the gravy 
with the meat, and in the pudding or other sweet dish 
that is used for dessert. There is usually enough fat 
served in one form or another at dinner so that it is 
not necessary to have butter on the table at this 
meal. 

There are many combinations which can be used as 
the hearty dish for dinner in which two or more groups 
may be represented. Such a dish would be a fish or 
clam chowder, where starches, protein foods, and some 
fat are all combined. This should then be served with 
food from the mineral salt group, such as salads or 
fruit, and some sweet. Another such dish would be an 
Irish stew where potatoes and vegetables are com- 
bined with the meat. So also there are many varia- 
tions that can be made in a casserole or baking-dish 
where a starch (rice, macaroni or cornmeal) is com- 
bined with vegetables, usually tomato, but almost any 
vegetable might answer the purpose, together with a 
little fish or meat or cheese. If the flavor is enjoyed, a 
slice or two of bacon can be laid on the top, which will 
crisp up in the oven and add fat to the dish. Such a 
dish may easily be prepared in the morning and slipped 
into the oven a half or three quarters of an hour before 
dinner-time, thus greatly relieving the task of prepar- 
ing dinner and permitting the home-maker to be out 



THE MAKING OF MENUS 257 

of the house all the afternoon. It also does away with 
the necessity of having many disagreeable cooking 
dishes to wash and makes the dinner a very simple one 
to serve. In these days of the high cost of labor, it is 
well to become accustomed to using all such means of 
saving time and energy. 

Since breakfast is so much a matter of routine and 
since luncheon can be so readily made up from left- 
overs or along lines already discussed, we will simply 
add a few combinations which would be suitable for 
the hearty meal of the day. Some of these are typical 
of meals that are in constant use. 

I 

Spaghetti, macaroni, or rice cooked with tomato, onion, 

green pepper; and cheese 

Bread and butter 

Fruit and gingerbread 

e 

Cow peas boiled with pork Boiled rice 

Green vegetable or vegetable salad 
Honey, maple sugar, or date sandwiches 

3 
Baked beans and brown bread 

Tomato jelly salad 
Tart apple sauce and cookies 

4 

Fish chowder 

Sliced tomatoes 

Apple pie 

Cheese 



258 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

5 

Fowl en casserole 

Baked potato Spinach 

Chocolate cornstarch pudding 

Cookies 

6 

Pot roast 

Potatoes Boiled onions 

Prunes and hermits 

7 

Corn, tomato, and cheese on toast 

Potato salad with boiled dressing 

Jam or stewed fruit 

8 

Baked fish 

Boiled rice Scalloped corn 

Apple tapioca 

9 

Salt codfish hash 

Vegetable Nut bread 

Banana salad 

lO 

Meat balls 

Scalloped rice Fried onions 

Lemon jelly 

II 

Cream of celery soup 

Chicken en casserole 

Tomato salad Graham muffins 

Ice cream 

Coffee Cake 



THE MAKING OF MENUS 259 

12 

Vegetable soup 

Scalloped shrimps 

Baked stuffed potato Spinach 

Rye muffins 

Fruit cup Coffee 

13 

Chicken broth 

Green pepper with cow peas 

Tomato sauce 

Baked potato 

Waldorf salad Raised rye muffins 

Cantaloupe 

Coffee 

14 

Tomato bisque 

Lentil timbale Cauliflower au gratin 

Lettuce salad Corn muffins 

Baked apple 

Coffee 



CHAPTER XVII 

FOOD FOR INFANTS AND YOUNG CHILDREN 

Mother's milk is always to be preferred for infants 
whenever it is possible. Children who have this start in 
Mother's life have a far better chance for health and 

milk best normal growth than those that are arti- 

ficially fed. Statistics gathered by social workers and 
hospitals show that the death-rate among children 
under a year old is lower for breast-fed babies than for 
bottle-fed. Seven die in every one hundred the first 
year of breast-fed babies while there is an average of 
thirty in every one hundred of the bottle-fed. If our 
young girls of all classes could be taught how important 
for the health of their children is the ability to feed 
them properly, they would take more pains in the 
right training and condition of their own bodies so that 
they might be able in later years to perform this 
function. 

There are certain conditions which tend towards 
successful nursing and others which must be carefully 
Conditions avoided. A nursing mother should always 
affecting avoid over-fatigue, worry, and undue ex- 

breast feeding citement. She should also be careful to 
eat only such food as is readily digestible; she should 
have plenty of fresh air, regular exercise, meals of 
wholesome, nourishing food at regular hours, and 
plenty of water to drink between meals. Tea and coffee 
are not wise foods at any time and if a nursing mother 
wants to have a quiet, unexcitable baby, she ought 



INFANTS AND YOUNG CHILDREN 261 

never to take them during the period she is nursing the 
baby. She would of course not drink any alcohoHc bev- 
erages and would be a little careful about the acidity 
of the food that she eats. (On the whole, however, food 
that does not disagree with her she can be quite sure 
will not be likely to upset the baby.) She should be 
very careful not to do too hard work but it is well if 
she can have a pleasurable occupation and some diver- 
sion of a simple kind, avoiding excitement. She also 
needs plenty of sleep. If her nights are disturbed 
by the baby, she should plan to take a nap during the 
day-time when the baby is asleep. It is also important 
that she should have a regular schedule of hours for 
feeding the baby and should keep strictly to these 
hours whether the baby cries between times or not. 
This is necessary not only for the health of the baby 
but also for her own supply of milk, since the milk 
glands, like all other glands in the body, perform their 
function better on a regular demand. 

If a mother is so unfortunate that she cannot have 
the privilege of nursing her own baby, she must use 
some substitute for her milk. Since there Modifying 
is no food that is exactly like mother's *^°^'^ ™^ 
milk, the only thing that can be done is to take the 
food the nearest like it that we have, cow's milk, and 
modify it by various ways in order to make it as much 
like mother's milk as possible. This modification is 
based on the chemical analysis of the two milks. Be- 
cause mother's milk contains more fat and more sugar 
than cow's milk, it is customary usually to take the 
top of the bottle of milk after it has stood some hours, 
dilute this with boiled water to the required strength, 
and then add milk sugar and limewater. Milk to be 



262 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

modified in this way should of course be the best pos- 
sible obtainable. The whole process must be done under 
clean conditions with utensils that are not used for 
any other purpose. These utensils should be carefully 
washed, scalded, and dried with a clean towel every 
day after the baby's bottles are fixed. The exact for- 
mula to be used for the baby varies with the age of the 
child, and with the wishes of the doctor. Mother's milk 
is adjusted by nature to suit the varying demands of 
the growing infant, while modified milk must be con- 
tinually increased in strength as the child grows. Dif- 
ferent children's specialists use different formulae for 
modifying milk and these can be found in such books 
as Dr. Holt's Care of the Baby, Dr. Kerley's Short Talks 
with Young Mothers, and Dr. Richard Smith's The 
Baby^s First Two Years. If artificial feeding must be 
resorted to, it is well to avoid all proprietary foods, 
since they usually contain starch which is not easily 
digested by the young infant. 

After the child is six months old, orange juice may 
usually be given to the infant from a spoon a half hour 
Other foods before the morning feeding. Barley water 
for infants may be substituted for the boiled water 
in the bottles at the same period. The infant, at a very 
early stage, should be taught to take plain boiled 
water between feedings from a bottle even if he is 
breast-fed. If he is accustomed to doing this, there 
will be very little difficulty when it becomes necessary 
to wean him. For this reason also it may sometimes be 
well to introduce at least one bottle of milk a day along 
about the fourth or fifth month in order to supplement 
the mother's milk and to get the child accustomed to 
taking milk from a bottle. The mother who can nurse 



INFANTS AND YOUNG CHILDREN 263 

her baby unaided for eight months is doing very well 
indeed. Even if she can only do it four or five months, 
she has given the child a good start in life. 

It is customary with doctors to-day to put the babies 
very early on a schedule of feeding of three-hour inter- 
vals. These may be arranged conveniently Regular 
at the following hours: six, nine, twelve, feeding hours 
three, and six. During the 6arly months the child is 
also given another feeding about ten and then should 
go until six in the morning without any more. A child 
that is established on a definite schedule closely ad- 
hered to by the mother, soon becomes accustomed to 
it and is very easy to take care of. As the child becomes 
older these intervals will be found to be too close ; the 
child will not be hungry enough to take all the food it 
should at each feeding. When this point is reached, 
which will vary with different children, somewhere 
about the ninth month, the schedule should be changed 
to a four-hour one. The feeding hours will then be six, 
ten, two, six, and ten. If a child is gaining steadily and 
sleeping well, the ten o'clock feeding at night may 
safely be omitted. These changes, however, should only 
be carried out under the advice of the physician in 
charge. 

It must be kept in mind that the digestive powers 
of the infant develop very gradually, so we must in- 
crease the kind and the quantity of the Cereal gruels 
food slowly to meet this development, added 
New foods should be introduced into the diet, one at 
a time, and in small quantities to begin with. Up to the 
time a child is five years old milk remains the staple 
of the diet. He should have from three cups to a quart 
daily, care being always taken to have it clean and 



264 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

fresh. Cereal is the next food to be added to the child's 
diet. This is used in the form of gruel for some months 
mixed with the milk, then it can be used in the form of 
a cereal jelly where the very thoroughly cooked mush 
is strained to remove the husks. This is served with 
milk. Later, as the child grows older, he can be given 
the mush unstrained. For this purpose oatmeal can be 
varied with cream of wheat, wheatena, pettijohn's, 
rice, or shredded wheat. The last is best used by pour- 
ing boiling water on it first to soften it before adding 
the milk. 

Milk and cereal should be the basis of a child's diet 
until he is two years old, although other foods can be 
Other additions added to give variety. An egg may be used 
to the diet occasionally, though never more than one 
a day, either in cooking, as in the form of custard, or 
boiled. To the orange juice already in use, other fruit 
juices may be added and even the strained pulp of 
prunes or apples. The fruit should be mostly cooked, 
although the raw fruit of the fleshy kinds, such as 
peaches and pears, occasionally will not harm if they 
are thoroughly ripe. No bananas should be given raw 
to a child, although they may be used steamed or 
baked. A green vegetable should be given in the mid- 
dle of every day. It should be strained at first but can 
later be given cut up fine. The vegetables that are the 
best to begin with are the mild ones, such as spinach, 
peas, green beans, asparagus tips, etc. A child should 
be encouraged to eat hard breadstuffs, such as the 
crust of the bread and zwieback, for the good of his 
teeth. He should never be allowed to have fresh bread 
or hot biscuits. Between the ages of three and five a 
child may be given a little meat, but never more than 



INFANTS AND YOUNG CHILDREN 265 

once a day, and never any pork products except ba- 
con. It is well to vary the meat by using in its place 
the white fish such as cod and haddock. If children 
are allowed to eat a good deal of meat they will not 
eat the amount of cereal and milk which they ought 
to, because the meat has so much more flavor and 
is better liked. Never give fried food of any kind to 
the diild, especially fried potatoes. 

There is no harm in keeping the child on a fairly 
uniform diet. For this reason it is better that he should 
have his meals away from the family Good habits 
where there will be no temptation to give ^o^^ed early 
him tastes of the food which the family is having. If he 
does not know what more elaborate food tastes like, 
he will have no desire for it. It is very essential that he 
should have his meals at regular intervals and that he 
should be taught from the very beginning to eat 
everything that is placed before him. A child develops 
whims and fancies very quickly and if these are al- 
lowed to grow he will become a nuisance to himself 
and to others. It should always be taken as a matter 
of course that what he is given to eat must be eaten 
without any question on his part. If the mother knows 
that a certain food is distasteful to the child, she should 
only give him a very small amount of that food at a 
time, say only a teaspoonful, but all that she gives 
him should be eaten before he is allowed to have his 
dessert. It is only by establishing such habits early 
that there will be any comfort to be had in later years. 

Good table manners should also be established in 
early years. A child learns more through imitation 
than through precept, although the mother has to keep 
constant watch over the size of the mouthfuls taken 



266 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

and the way the food is chewed. If a child does not 
chew his food thoroughly it will not be properly di- 
gested and he cannot get full value from it. 

A child at this period of from two to five should be 
having his food in three regular meals a day with a 
Food for child ^^S^t lunch in the middle of the morning. 
2 to 5 years The time for these may vary with the 
habits of the household but if it is possible, 
it is well that breakfast should be from half-past seven 
to eight, dinner at half-past twelve or one, and supper 
from live to half -past. His breakfast should consist of 
the juice of an orange or some other fruit, a good-sized 
dish of cooked cereal with top milk on it, a soft-boiled 
egg, a slice of buttered toast and a glass of milk. He 
should have another glass of milk and a piece of bread 
and butter between half -past ten and eleven. For 
dinner he could have a broth made from mutton or 
beef in which rice or barley has been cooked, or he 
could have a small piece of rare beefsteak, the heart 
of a chop, or a little white fish. With this he could have 
a baked potato or boiled rice or macaroni and a vege- 
table, and for dessert he could have the inside of a 
baked apple, apple sauce, or a pudding, such as baked 
custard, a simple rice pudding, bread pudding, or a 
thoroughly cooked, plain cornstarch pudding. He could 
also have fruit jelly served with cream or a simple ice 
cream. For supper he should again have a dish of 
cereal and milk as a basis. With this he could have 
stewed prunes or apple sauce or baked apples if he has 
not had them at noon. He could also have a cup of 
weak cocoa, a slice of bread and butter, a plain cooky, 
or a piece of simple cake. He should never have fried 
foods nor rich foods of any sort. 



INFANTS AND YOUNG CHILDREN 267 

If it is desirable for the child to have a piece of candy- 
as a reward of merit, which frequently is a far better 
scheme than punishment, this may best be given im- 
mediately after breakfast or dinner. It should never 
be given between meals. No food of any kind, in fact, 
should be allowed except at the regular meal hours. 
If a child has plenty of the right kind of food at regular 
intervals he does not want anything else to eat. If, 
however, he is really hungry, he may safely be given a 
plain piece of bread. It is not often that he is hungry 
enough for this. What he wants is a cooky or the jam 
on his bread which would spoil his appetite for his 
regular meals. 

DIET FOR CHILD 
At 12 months 
4 meals — at 6, 10, 2, 6, or similar convenient hours, 
(i) I or 2 ounces of juice of sweet orange, or pulp of 6 
stewed prunes. 
8 ounces of milk. 

3 or 4 ounces of well-cooked and strained cereal (fa- 
rina, cream of wheat, oatmeal, barley, rice, or arrow- 
root). Salt to taste. Sugar is not necessary. 

(2) 8 ounces of milk, with zwieback, plain crackers, stale 
bread, or toast. 

(3) 4 ounces of broth; beef, mutton, or chicken with i or 2 
tablespoons of well-cooked rice or barley, or 2 ounces 
of beef juice. 

8 ounces of milk. 

Apple sauce, pulp of baked apple, or prune juice, if 

necessary for bowels. 

(4) 3 or 4 ounces of cereal, as at breakfast. 
8 or 10 ounces of milk. 

13 months — add macaroni and spaghetti, alternating with 
rice at the 2 p.m. meal. 



268 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

15 to i6 months — add soft-boiled eggs (2 or 3 a week). Best 
given at 2 p.m. in place of the broth or beef juice. 
Add thoroughly baked potato, alternating with rice, 
macaroni, or spaghetti at 2 p.m. Add small amount of 
butter on bread or potato. 
Stop straining the cereals. 

2 tablespoons= i ounce. 
I glass=8 ounces. 

At 18 months 

Breakfast — Juice of i sweet orange, or 
Pulp of 6 stewed prunes. 

Cereal (cream of wheat, oatmeal, farina, barley, arrow- 
root, rice, etc.) 
Milk, I glass. 
Stale bread or toast, and butter. 

Lunch — Milk, i glass. 

Stale bread, or toast, or plain crackers. 

Dinner — Broth, or minced or scraped meat, or soft-boiled 
egg. 

Boiled rice, or spaghetti, or macaroni, or baked potato. 
Stewed celery, or stewed lettuce. Well-cooked and strained 

spinach, or carrots, fresh peas, and string beans. 
Stale bread, or toast, or plain crackers and butter. 
Milk, I glass. 
Cooked apple, or stewed prunes, without the skins, if 

needed for constipation, or 
Simple pudding — i.e., rice, bread, tapioca, custard, 

junket, and blanc mange. 

Supper — Cereal (as at breakfast), or bread and milk. 
Glass of milk. 

Stale bread, or toast, and butter. 
Cooked fruit, unless given at dinner. 



INFANTS AND YOUNG CHILDREN 269 

SAMPLE MENU FOR CHILD TWO TO FOUR YEARS OLD 

7 A.M. 4 tablespoons orange juice, or 

juice and pulp 4 prunes 
4 tablespoons oatmeal 
2 slices bread 
I teaspoon butter 
10 ounces milk 
10 A.M. 8 ounces milk 

I cracker 
I P.M. I egg or small portion boiled cod or haddock 

I medium baked potato 
I 1/2 tablespoons spinach 

1 slice bread 

1/2 teaspoonful butter 

2 tablespoons junket 
5.30 P.M. 4 tablespoons boiled rice 

2 slices bread 

1 teaspoon butter 

2 tablespoons apple sauce 

LIST OF FOODS ALLOWED A CHILD TWO TO FOUR 
YEARS OLD 

Milk: This is the principal article of diet. 

Fruits : 

Baked apples Oranges 

Apple sauce Stewed pears 

Stewed prunes Baked pears 

Stewed peaches 

Cereals : 

Oatmeal Wheat germ 

Pettijohn Samp 

Cream of wheat Germea 

Wheatena . Malt Breakfast Food 

Quaker Oats . Farina 



270 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 



Ralston 
Cracked wheat 

White vegetables: 
Potato, baked 
Rice 

Green vegetables: 
String beans 
Asparagus 
Lettuce 
Celery, stewed 
Carrots 



Hominy- 



Macaroni 
Spaghetti 

Spinach 
Beet greens 
Green peas 
Beets 
Swiss chard 



Bread : 

Stale bread (white, whole wheat, graham, oatmeal, 

rye, or corn) with butter 
Crackers 

Desserts : 

Junket Cooked fruit Simple jelly 

Custard Sago Cornstarch pudding 

Tapioca cream Rice pudding Bread pudding 
Apple tapioca without raisins 

Prune whip Ice cream 

Protein Foods: 



Eggs, soft-boiled or 


Mutton 


coddled 


Steak 


Fresh fish (boiled) 


Lamb (roast or chopped) 


Roast chicken 


Roast beef 


Boiled chicken 




Soups: 




Beef 


Vegetable 


Creamed vegetable 


Chicken 


Mutton 




Fats: 




Butter 


Olive oil 


Oleomargarine 





INFANTS AND YOUNG CHILDREN 271 

RECIPES FOR INFANT FOODS 
Albumen Water 

For each 4 ounces of water at 104** F., add the white of 
one egg. Stir with a knife until dissolved. Do not beat or 
shake. Strain through cheesecloth. 

Barley Water 

Take 2 level teaspoons of Robinson's or Brook's barley 
flour, or any other standard brand, and mix with enough 
water to make a paste. Add water up to one pint. Boil 20 
minutes in a double boiler. Strain through two thicknesses 
of cheesecloth. Add boiled water up to one pint to make 
up what has boiled away. 

Beef Juice 

Partially broil on both sides i /2 pound of the top of the 
round. Cut in small pieces and squeeze out the juice, using 
a meat-press or a wooden lemon-squeezer. Add a pinch of 
salt. 1/2 pound of beef makes 2 ounces of beef juice. 

Beef, Scraped 

Scrape a piece of round steak with a knife and then broil 
very slightly. The meat is practically free from the con- 
necting fiber and is better than when minced. 

Broth 

Put I pound of the meat in i pint of cold water. Add a 
pinch of salt. Let stand 1/2 hour. Cook slowly for 3 or 4 
hours. Do NOT let it boil. Strain through 2 thicknesses of 
cheesecloth. Cool. Remove and discard all the fat. 

Coddled Egg 

Put the egg into boiling water and remove immediately 
from the fire, or set it back on the stove. Cover and let it 
stand for six or seven minutes. The white of the egg should 
be soft and not liquid. 



272 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

Gruel 

This may be either barley or oatmeal. Use either Robin- 
son's or Brook's barley or Robinson's oatmeal (groats), 
or any other standard brand. Take 3 tablespoons of the 
flour, and mix with a little cold water to make a paste, 
then add water to make one pint. Cook for 20 minutes in 
a double boiler. Add a pinch of salt. Strain through two 
thicknesses of cheesecloth. If the gruel is too thin, cook a 
little longer; it should be thick enough to jelly when cold. 

Junket 

To I quart of milk, whole, heated to 105" F., add 4 tea- 
spoons of liquid rennet. Add a pinch of salt and a teaspoon 
of granulated sugar. Let stand in a cool place until the curd 
forms. Strain off the liquid portion or whey. The curd is 
junket. 

It is also made by adding one junket tablet, dissolved in 
a little cold milk, to the warm milk, and allowing it to stand. 

limewater 

Put I teaspoon of unslaked lime in a bottle containing 
I quart of boiled water, shake thoroughly, and allow it to 
stand for 24 hours. The clear fluid at the top is limewater. 

Prune Juice 
Take 1/2 pound of prunes, wash, and soak in water over- 
night. Cover with water and add 1/2 teaspoon of sugar (no 
lemon). Cook in a double boiler until the prunes are perfectly 
tender. Strain through a cheesecloth to remove the pulp. 

Whey 
To I quart of skimmed milk heated to 105° F., add 4 tea- 
spoons of liquid rennet. Let stand in a cool place until the 
curd forms. Break up the curd with a fork and strain through 
4 layers of cheesecloth or muslin. Heat the whey (the liquid 
part) to 155° F. and allow it to cool gradually. Keep on ice. 
One quart of milk makes 24 ounces of whey. 



CHAPTER XVIII 
FOOD FOR SCHOOL-CHILDREN 

This period in the life of an individual from the time he 
starts to school at five or six until he graduates from 
college at twenty-one or twenty-two is « - , 
one in which there is great activity both of food nec- 
of the body and of the mind. It is the ®^^^°' 
period of growth in which the body goes 
through great changes not only in building up the 
bodily tissue itself but in the development which 
eventually produces the adult man or women. During 
this period the youth is more dependent on a regular 
supply of food every day than is the adult. His activity 
is so great that the supply of fuel must be constant 
and steady. At the same time he must have a larger 
proportion of those foods which contain the best 
building material for body structure. This is particu- 
larly important in the type of protein material, since 
those proteins that are found in milk, eggs, and meat 
are of greater value than those that are found in the 
cereals and pulses. 

There are certain signs betokening good health 
which means a suitable diet. The first of these is a 
steady gain in weight and height. A move- signs of good 
ment is now on foot by the Federal Bureau ^^^ith 
of Education for the weighing of all school-children at 
least twice during each year so as to keep track of the 
gain in weight. Where this has already been done, it 
has been found that a surprisingly large number of 



274 POOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

our school-children are below weight according to the 
standards set by the experts. Another sign of good 
health is sound sleep and plenty of it. This must always 
be taken in close connection with proper diet in order 
to insure gain in weight. A child should also have a 
reasonable appetite, not too large nor too small. The 
lad who could and did eat eleven shredded wheat bis- 
cuits for breakfast could hardly be said to have a 
reasonable appetite. A child who is well and strong 
will have a firm flesh and rosy skin, and will be gener- 
ally good-natured. 

The food should increase gradually in quantity as 
the years go on and the body requirements become 
The right greater and greater. The bulk of the diet 

food should still consist largely of cereals, 

vegetables, and fruit. These may be varied from day 
to day but it is very important that no school-child 
should be allowed to start off to school in the morning 
without having eaten a substantial dish of cereal, pref- 
erably of a cooked variety. Meat should be had in 
moderate amount, seldom more than once a day, and 
other foods such as fish and cheese may be substituted 
for it. Milk should still be used; at least a pint a day 
for the older children and three cups for the younger 
ones. No tea, coffee, nor strong cocoa should be al- 
lowed, especially during the high-school period when 
girls in particular seem to have a craving for these. 
It is to be remembered that these drinks are stimu- 
lants and will have a harmful effect upon the organism 
of a girl at just this time. 

The young people should be encouraged to eat plenty 
of vegetables and fruit. It would be well if fruit were 
available for them between meals, as it would be of 



FOOD FOR SCHOOL-CHILDREN 27$ 

far greater benefit for them than would be the candy, 
college ices, ice-cream sodas, or rich cake which are 
constantly resorted to by the ever-hungry student. 
Rich cake, pastry, and fried foods should be avoided 
and candy can only safely be used immediately after 
meals, not between meals. 

During the adolescent period the young people are 
very apt to show vagaries in their likes and dislikes 
about their food. This is where early train- vagaries 
ing will have its strong effect. If eating harmful 
has always been considered a part of the day's busi- 
ness to be carried out with a definite aim in mind, 
that of building up strong, healthy bodies, very little 
trouble will be met with at this time. If on the other 
hand, the girl and boy have been allowed to pick and 
choose pretty much as they pleased without respect 
to the value of the foods themselves, they are quite 
apt not to get the kind of food the body most requires 
during this period of great growth. It requires great 
care on the part of the homemaker to see that it is 
impossible for the young people to have a one-sided 
diet, even though they do not eat everything that is 
served. This means careful planning so that the groups 
of foods will be represented at the meal in more than 
in just one form. Breadstuff s may be served in a va- 
riety of ways so that the cereal content of the meal 
will still be high. Cinnamon buns, date or raisin bread, 
currant rolls, and other forms of bread may well be 
used. Desserts may also be varied in such a way as 
to avoid monotony and yet introduce valuable build- 
ing material into the diet. Instead of serving an ordi- 
nary rice pudding, it can sometimes be made with 
chocolate, or with molasses, and apples baked in it, 



276 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

and the much-despised cornstarch pudding can be 
dressed up by being served with stewed figs, ginger, 
and whipped cream, or peaches or other raw fruit. In 
this way milk can be introduced into the diet un- 
obtrusively. 

From the time when the children can have their 
heartiest meal at night with the rest of the family, the 
The problem luncheon is always the biggest problem. 
of lunch This is just as true in the colleges as it is 

in the home where the children are still either in the 
grammar school or in the high school. If the child has 
to take his midday meal with him, just as much care 
should be given to the planning of the lunch-box as 
though the meal were to be eaten at home. All the food 
groups should be represented in such form as can be 
carried in a lunch-box and still be appetizing when 
taken out several hours later. In order to protect the 
food as much as possible, sandwiches and cake should 
be carefully wrapped in paraffin paper. Little dishes 
can be used to carry such foods as a baked custard or 
a baked apple or even stewed prunes. By using a ther- 
mos bottle soup or cocoa or even cold milk can be 
taken to supplement the lunch in the box. 

There are many fillings which can be put into the 
sandwiches to provide protein or vegetable material. 
Thinly sliced cold meat of different kinds, hard-boiled 
eggs, cheese, the puree of pulses or peanut butter will 
be of the first class, while lettuce, celery, sliced toma- 
toes will be of the second. If a meat sandwich is taken, 
lettuce can be taken separately, carefully washed and 
wrapped in parafhn paper. There is more danger of 
neglecting this important group of foods in the lunch- 
box than any of the others. Fruit should be included 



FOOD FOR SCHOOL-CHILDREN 277 

every day, either as an apple or orange, or as a few 
dates and figs. These latter will also provide the sweet 
which is so greatly craved by young people. In making 
sandwiches try to use a variety of breads as much as 
possible, oatmeal or graham instead of white, for in 
these the young people can obtain more iron and other 
salts than they can from white bread. 

Many of our preparatory and high schools which 
have the long session are making it possible for the 
boys and girls to have a hot meal at school. The school 
This is, of course, the ideal way if these ^^^^^ 
meals are carefully supervised. A choice of dishes 
must be served; yet among this variety the dishes 
should be so planned that it would be difficult for the 
young people not to get the right kind of a dinner. A 
soup of some sort, either on a milk basis or a rich broth 
with vegetables, should be among the choice each day ; 
so should a hot dish of some kind, like macaroni and 
cheese, stew, baked rice, and tomato. Some vegetable 
either as such or as a salad should be present in the 
menu, and a pudding and fruit as a choice for the des- 
sert. From such a list it would be hard for a boy or a 
girl not to get a suitable lunch. 

The colleges have a little different problem. Most of 
their young people return directly to work and are 
allowed a comparatively short time to eat lunch. For 
this reason the lunch must consist of such foods as can 
be served quickly and will be easily digested. If a milk 
dish is present in one course or another, it serves as a 
good basis for this midday meal. This dish, whether it 
is soup or a creamed dish or in the form of a dessert, 
should be supplemented with attractive breadstuffs 
and vegetables, either hot or as salad. 



278 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

MENU FOR THE SCHOOL LUNCH-BOX 

(i) Sandwiches: made of stale bread, preferably graham or 

oatmeal, and filled with: 
finely chopped boiled eggs, well but mildly seasoned; 
a nut paste, as peanut butter softened with milk or 

cream ; 
a dried fruit paste, made of chopped dates or figs; 
meat, thinly sliced or finely chopped and seasoned; 
celery, chopped fine and mixed with salad dressing; 
cream cheese and nuts; 

American cheese grated and seasoned with tomato; 
lettuce with mayonnaise ; 

(2) Fruit : an orange or apple ; also cooked fruit if it can be 

carried, as apple sauce or baked apple, stewed prunes, 
raisins, pears, peaches, etc. Tomatoes may take the 
place of other fruit when liked. 

(3) A sweet: as baked custard, plain cookies, sponge cake. 

(4) Milk or fruit juice to drink if it can be carried. 

RECIPES FOR THE LUNCH-BOX 

COOKIES 

1/2 cup butter 1/4 cup milk 

I cup sugar 2 cups pastry flour 

I egg 2 to 3 teaspoons baking-powder 

Mix like cake. Put the dough on the ice to chill, use a 
portion of it at a time and work quickly with little flour on 
the molding board. Bake in a hot oven, watching constantly. 
Cookies may be made plainer by increasing the amount of 
milk, also the flour and baking-powder, or richer by omitting 
the milk entirely and sprinkling with sugar before baking. 
The dough may be divided into four parts and flavored 
differently : 



FOOD FOR SCHOOL-CHILDREN 279 

To 1/4 add I teaspoon lemon or vanilla extract 

To 1/4 add 1/2 cup dessicated or fresh cocoanut 

To 1/4 add I ounce chocolate melted, on 1/2 tablespoons 

dry cocoa with a little flour, also vanilla 
To 1/4 add I teaspoon mixed spices and 1/2 cup chopped 

raisins, citron, or almonds. 

Proportions for Mixed Spices 

1/2 teaspoon cloves i teaspoon nutmeg 

1/2 teaspoon allspice 3 teaspoons cinnamon 

I teaspoon mace 

GINGER SNAPS 

I cup butter 1/2 teaspoon soda 

I cup sugar i tablespoon ginger 

I cup N.O. molasses 3 cups flour (pastry) 
I egg 

Mix like cake, adding the flour sifted with the ginger and 
soda last. Chill the dough, and roll out a portion of it at a 
time. Bake in a hot oven, watching constantly. 

MOLASSES COOKIES 

1 cup butter i tablespoon ginger 

2 cups molasses 1/2 teaspoon soda 

I egg 3 teaspoons baking-powder 

I tablespoon cinnamon 4 cups flour (pastry) 

Soften butter and add to molasses, then add beaten egg 
and I cup flour; with the 2d cup of flour sift the ginger and 
cinnamon, and with the 3d the soda. Add enough more 
flour to make a soft dough. Toss on a floured board, pat 
with a rolling-pin to 1/4 inch in thickness, cut out, and bake 
in moderate oven. 



28o FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

PEANUT BUTTER JUMBLES 

I cup granulated sugar 1/2 teaspoon soda 

I /2 cup sweet cream i teaspoon cream of tartar 

1/2 cup butter i egg 

1 cup peanut butter i 3/4 cups flour 
Salt 

Mix peanut butter with the butter and sugar. Add egg 
well beaten. Add cream and mix in the flour sifted with salt, 
soda, and cream of tartar to make a stiff dough. Bake in a 
very hot oven. 

ROLLED OATS AND PEANUT BUTTER COOKIES 

1/2 cup brown sugar 1/2 teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons peanut i teaspoon baking-powder 

butter mixed with i egg 

milk to make soft 1/2 teaspoon vanilla 

and smooth i i /2 cups rolled oats, raw 

Mix dry ingredients. Add the egg beaten and then peanut 
butter. Drop from teaspoon on greased tin and bake quickly. 

BARLEY COOKIES 

3 tablespoons shortening 
1/2 cup brown sugar 

1 egg, well beaten 

2 tablespoons milk 

1 cup barley flour 1 

2 teaspoons baking-powder \ sifted together 
I teaspoon cinnamon J 

1/2 cup chopped raisins 

Cream the shortening, add sugar and other ingredients in 
order, and beat well. Drop from a teaspoon 2 inches apart, 
on a greased sheet. Bake in a moderate oven about 12 
minutes. 



FOOD FOR SCHOOLCHILDREN 281 



SCOTTISH FANCIES OR ROLLED OATS WAFERS 

I egg I cup rolled oats 

1/2 cup sugar 1/3 teaspoon salt 

2/3 tablespoon melted butter or 1/4 teaspoon vanilla 

oleomargarine 
Beat egg very light and then stir in remaining ingredients. 
Drop mixture by teaspoonfuls on a thoroughly greased tin 
sheet or inverted dripping-pan an inch apart. Spread into 
circular shape with a case knife dipped in cold water, and 
separate the bits of oats to make the wafer very thin when 
cooked. Bake in a moderate oven until delicately browned. 
Remove from pan quickly. For variety use 2/3 cup rolled 
oats and fill cup with shredded cocoanut. 

CHOCOLATE NUT COOKIES 

1/2 cup corn syrup i teaspoon baking-powder 

2 tablespoons strained honey i /2 teaspoon salt 

2 squares chocolate I teaspoon vanilla 

10 tablespoons rice flour 1/2 cup chopped nut meats 
4 tablespoons barley flour 

Mix and drop by the spoonful on greased baking-sheets. 
Bake 15 minutes. 



CHAPTER XIX 

FOOD FOR INVALIDS 

In China a doctor is engaged to keep the family well. 
He would be greatly helped by some knowledge of 
foods on the part of the mother of the family who plans 
the meals, for just as much as a good diet is essential 
for the maintenance of health, so one that is badly 
planned causes the lowering of the power of resistance 
of the body. This gives a chance for the disease germs 
which are ever present around us to get a foothold in 
the body and to develop into some serious condition. 
Aside from this, improper food is often the direct 
cause for much illness, whether of a serious kind or of 
some trifling nature which is, however, sufficient to 
lower working ability. 

When the individual is sick and under the doctor's 
care, the doctor's directions as to the food that must 
Typical in- be eaten must be carried out implicitly, 
valid diets jf ^ however, the nurse or the mother has a 
certain understanding of the terms in use when speak- 
ing of the kind of diet which can be given to the invalid, 
she can be of great help to the doctor. There are three 
such typical diets in common use in the hospitals to- 
day. The first of these is known as the Fluid Diet. As 
is shown by its name no solids are given, but all nour- 
ishment is given in liquid form. Milk, of course, is the 
basis of such a diet, alone or in various combinations 
with eggs, gruels, and broths. Fruit drinks are also 
included and the food value of these may also be 



FOOD FOR INVALIDS 283 

increased by the use of eggs. It is usual to give such 
a diet in small quantities at frequent intervals. 

The second is known as the Soft or Semi-Solid Diet. 
This would include all foods in the fluid diet and the 
simplest of solid foods, such as toasts, custards, whips, 
souffles, gelatine dishes, and ice cream. All meat, fish, 
and green vegetables are omitted. 

The third diet is known as the Light or Convalescent 
Diet. This diet is very similar to one that would be 
given a healthy child, since the aim is the same in both 
cases — to provide such food as will build the body 
without disturbing the digestion. Plenty of milk would 
be used in this diet as well as in the others and would 
be supplemented by the simpler meat dishes, well- 
cooked cereals, baked potatoes, green vegetables, 
fruits, and plain desserts. No fried food nor rich dishes 
would be given to a convalescent any more than to a 
child. 

Since digestion is aided by the attractiveness with 
which the meal is served, this point should be carefully 
noted in the service for an invalid. The . 
meals should be served at regular inter- 
vals, the foods should be cooked as perfectly as possible, 
and the whole served daintily on a tray covered with 
fine linen and the best china used. It would stimulate 
the appetite of the patient to have a little surprise on 
the tray, either a single flower, a gift, or a looked-for 
letter. It is never well to leave the invalid to eat his 
meal by himself, since pleasant companionship also 
tends to the better digestion of the food. 

When one is first taken ill, fasting for two or three 
days does no harm in the case of an adult, since there 
is usually a sufficient supply of material in the body 



284 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

which can be utilized in such an emergency. During this 
Food require- penod the digestive tract would have a 
ment in chance for a complete rest. If, however, the 

sickness illness is protracted, a sufficient amount 

of food must be provided to supply the fuel for the 
body activity. It was thought at one time that because 
a person was lying in bed and not performing any ex- 
ternal work that he did not need any food. This theory 
is now just as obsolete as is the general bleeding of pa- 
tients used some centuries ago. In studying a patient 
with a respiration calorimeter it was found that a 
healthy man of normal weight lying in bed for twenty- 
four hours would require about 1850 calories just to 
cover his internal muscular activity. In case of sickness 
the individual may even require more than this to 
overcome the wasting away of tissue due to bacterial 
action. The knowledge of this fact has revolutionized 
the feeding of patients suffering with long-time illnesses 
especially with such fevers as typhoid. 

FOOD FOR SLIGHT ILLNESSES 

Many times an individual is slightly ill when it is not 
necessary to call the doctor and yet when especial care 
with the food would help towards rapid 
recovery. In the case of colds, for instance, 
which are usually contracted because the individual is 
slightly below par, the first thing to do is to maintain 
a laxative diet of low fuel value for about twenty-four 
hours. This means an increased quantity of fruits and 
vegetables, no fats nor sugars, and a small amount of 
starches. When the system has become cleared, this 
diet should be followed by one that is high in such food 
as will build up the strength of the body. Extra fats 



FOOD FOR INVALIDS 285 

should be used in the form of butter, cream, salad oil, 
and bacon fat. Care of course should be taken to use 
foods that are easily digested and not those that would 
again clog up the system. 

In those cases where the digestive tract itself is not 
working properly it is well to avoid all food whatever 
for a day or so, or to use only those foods Digestive 
that are very light and easy to digest, such troubles 
as thoroughly dried toast and broths, particularly mut- 
ton broth in which rice has been cooked. The diet may 
then be gradually increased, beginning with the simple 
foods of the semi-solid diet, avoiding sugars and rich 
foods, and using fruits and vegetables very cautiously 
since they are apt to be irritating to the intestinal 
tract. 

FOOD FOR SPECIAL DISEASES 

Where we have a disease in which the patient must 
be confined to the bed for several weeks, care must be 
taken to prevent the wasting of the tissues Fevers, espe- 
due both to the disease itself and to the "^^y typhoid j 
lack of food. The food given must be of an easily di- 
gested sort. In the case of typhoid fever the seat of the 
disease is the intestinal tract, so that the food given 
must be of such a kind as can be largely digested in the 
stomach and have very little waste to be dealt with by 
the intestines. The best results have been obtained by 
giving the patients milk the fuel value of which has 
been increased by the addition of cream and milk 
sugar. Broths are also given, cream soups, and fruit 
juices in large quantities. The patient is fed at two- 
hour intervals, and the total number of calories taken 
at each feeding carefully measured. In this way it is 



286 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

possible for a person to leave the hospital after a long 

siege of typhoid weighing as much as he did when he 

was brought in. The fearful emaciation which was 

thought to be a part of typhoid fever is no longer 

considered inevitable. 

With tuberculosis we have a disease In which there 

is a large wasting away of tissue. This must be counter- 

_ . . . balanced by an excess of food eaten. At 
Tuberculosis , . ., . . 

the same time it is important not to upset 

the digestive tract by this excess of food. It is custom- 
ary to feed the patient as much as possible until he has 
regained his normal weight. In order to maintain the 
normal weight, it is then necessary that he should eat 
a third more fuel value than would be his normal diet. 
This is usually made up by the free use of milk, eggs, 
and fats. 

Diabetes is a disease which requires the constant 
supervision of a physician but it is also one where the 
health of the patient depends absolutely 
upon the food which is eaten. This should 
of course be regulated by the physician, but much can 
be done by the patient himself if he understands the 
situation. The cause of the disease is a loss on the part 
of the body of the power of using carbohydrates, so 
that sugar, instead of being burned up by the tissues for 
energy, is carried in the blood and excreted in the urine. 
This condition can be controlled by the food eaten. 
The basis of a diet for such a patient should be protein 
material and fats. Carbohydrates can only be used in 
a restricted quantity, depending upon the extent to 
which the disease has developed in the individual. 
When the point of safety has been ascertained by a 
study of the urine, the diet can then be kept within 



FOOD FOR INVALIDS 287 

that amount by a table of equivalents which can be 
had from the doctor. The housekeeper must then make 
up a variety of meals, using only the quantity of 
starchy foods prescribed by the doctor. 

There is a general disagreement among physicians as 
to the exact cause of gout and rheumatism but it is 
generally admitted that one of the effects Gout and 
of them is an excess of uric acid in the rheumatism 
blood. This is the acid that is formed in the process of 
the utilization of protein foods. Hence usually gout has 
been described as an aristocratic disease, the high liv- 
ing and perhaps pretty steady drinking of the upper 
classes producing this trouble in middle and later life. 
To avoid these diseases those people who have a gouty 
tendency should be careful not to eat an excess of 
foods of all kinds, but particularly of protein foods. 
Foods which tend to disturb the digestive system 
should be avoided as should also those foods which 
have a tendency to putrefaction and which cause 
constipation. This reduces the diet to plain, wholesome 
food, well chosen, thoroughly cooked, and used in mod- 
erate amounts. Excess of food is, after all, the most im- 
portant element of danger and one that is aggravated 
if the food is rich. 

RECIPES FOR INVALID DIETS 

TOAST WATER 

2 slices stale bread i cup boiling water 

Cut stale bread in I /3 inch slices and remove crusts. Put 
in pan and bake in slow oven until thoroughly dried and well 
browned. Break in small pieces, add boiling water, cover, 
let stand one hour. Squeeze through cheesecloth. Season 



288 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

with salt and serve hot or cold. It often proves efficient in 
extreme cases of nausea. 

LEMON WHEY 

1/4 cup milk 2 teaspoons lemon juice 

Add lemon juice to milk and let stand 5 minutes. Strain 
through double thickness of cheesecloth. 

SYRUP FOR FRUIT BEVERAGES 

3/4 cup sugar 3/4 cup boiling water 

Add sugar to boiling water and place on front of range. 
Stir until sugar is dissolved, then let boil, without stirring, 
twelve minutes. Cool and bottle. 

LEMONADE 

I 1/2 tablespoons syrup 

2 tablespoons lemon juice 3/4 cup cold water 

Mix syrup and lemon juice, and add cold water. Use a 
glass lemon-squeezer or wooden drill for expressing juice, 
to avoid extracting oil from rind, strain juice before using. 
Soda water or ApoUinaris may be used instead of part or 
all of cold water. 

EGG LEMONADE 

I egg 2 tablespoons lemon juice 

1 tablespoon powdered sugar 2 teaspoons sherry 

1/4 cup cold water 2 tablespoons crushed ice 

Beat egg slightly, add sugar, water, lemon juice, and wine, 
then strain over crushed ice. Wine may be omitted. 

FLAXSEED LEMONADE 

2 tablespoons flaxseed 2 tablespoons lemon juice 
2 cups boiling water Syrup 



FOOD FOR INVALIDS 289 

Pick over and wash flaxseed. Cover with boIHng water, 
and let simmer one hour. Strain, add lemon juice and syrup. 
Serve hot or cold. 

miSH MOSS LEMONADE 

1/8 cup Irish moss 2 tablespoons lemon juice 

I cup cold water Sugar 

KUMYSS 

2 tablespoons sugar 
2 tablespoons water 

Cook to syrup, rinse pan with 1/2 cup water, put into 
bowl with I quart milk, 1/8 cup compressed yeast made 
smooth with part of the milk. Mix well ; fill bottles 3/4 full, 
tie corks in. Stand bottles in refrigerator 3 days; lay them 
down in refrigerator 5 days. Draw kumyss with a cham- 
pagne top. 

BOTTLED BEEF ESSENCE 

I pound steak from top of round 

Wipe steak, remove all fat, and cut in small pieces. Place 
in canning jar, cover ; place on trivet in kettle and surround 
with cold water. Allow water to heat slowly, care being taken 
not to have it reach a higher temperature than 130° F. 
Let stand 2 hours; strain, and press the meat to obtain all 
the juices. Salt to taste. 

BOTTLED BEEF TEA 

I pound steak from top of round 
I pint cold water 
Salt 

Prepare the beef as for bottled beef essence. Soak 15 
minutes in the water, and cook 3 hours same as bottled 
beef essence. Strain and season. In reheating, care should 
be taken not to coagulate the juices. 



290 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 

FROZEN BEEF TEA 
Freeze beef tea to the consistency of a mush. 

BROILED BEEF ESSENCE 

1/2 pound steak from top of round (cut 3/4 inch thick). 
Wipe steak, remove all fat, and place in heated broiler. 
Broil 3 minutes over a clear fire, turning every 10 seconds to 
prevent escape of juices. Put on a hot plate and cut in i 1/2 
inch pieces ; gash each piece two or three times on each side. 
Press out all the juice with a lemon-squeezer into a warm 
bowl, set in a dish of hot water, care being taken that the 
heat is not sufficient to coagulate juices. Salt the juice very 
slightly. Remove the globules of fat. Serve by teaspoonfuls, 
or, if solid food can be taken, the juice may be poured on 
some dry, fresh-made toast. 

BROILED BEEF TEA 

Dilute broiled beef essence with water. 



Egg Sugar 
Plain: i 3/4 tb. 
Coffee: i i 1/2 tb. 
Fruit: i 2 tb. 



EGGNOGS 1 

Fluid 
3/4 c. milk or cream 
6 tb. milk or cream 
1/4 c. water 
1/4 c. chopped ice 



Flavor 

1 tb. brandy 

6 tb. strong coffee 

2 tb. fruit juice 



Method: Beat egg well. Add sugar, beat again. Add remaining in- 
gredients. Serve very cold in glass. 







GRUELS 






Flour 




Salt 


Boiling water 


Milk {scalded) 


Barley flour, I tb. 




1/4 t. 


1/2 c. 


1/2 c. 


Rice flour, i tb. 




1/4 t. 


1/2 c. 


1/2 c. 


Farina, i tb. 




1/4 t. 


1/2 c. 


1/2 c. 


Oat flour, I tb. 




1/4 t. 


1/2 c. 


1/2 c. 


Cracker crumbs, 2 


tb. 


1/4 t. 


1/2 c. 


1/2 c. 



* These tables of recipes were taken from A Cook Book for Nurses, by Sarah C. Hill. 
(Whitcomb and Barrows. Boston, 1907.) 



FOOD FOR INVALIDS 



291 



Method: In top of double boiler mix the flour with cold water enough 
to form a paste. Add the boiling water. Boil 2 or 3 minutes, then 
set over lower part of double boiler to cook for 15 minutes, stirring 
frequently. Add the salt and scalded milk, and serve in a hot cup 
or bowl. The cracker gruel does not need to be mixed with cold 
water nor cooked over hot water, but is sufficiently cooked by the 
2 or 3 minutes boiling. 



FARINACEOUS PUDDINGS 



Farinaceous 










material 


Milk 


Egg 


Sugar 


Flavor 


Plain: i tb. cornstarch 


1/2 c. 


1/2 


2 tb. 


Few drops 


or I 1/2 tb. 




white 




vanilla, or 


farina, or 2 t. 




of I 




I t. brandy, 


arrowroot 








or few thin 
shavings of 
lemon rind 


Chocolate: Same 


1/2 c. 


Same 


Same 


3/8 sq. 
chocolate 



Method: Mix the farinaceous material, sugar, and a few grains of salt 
together. Add cold water to make a smooth thick paste. Add the 
milk scalded. Cook until it thickens in double boiler, stirring occa- 
sionally, for 15 minutes. Beat white of egg to a stiff froth. Add to 
this the hot mixture gradually, beating all the time. Pour into a 
mold, chill. Serve with a soft custard made with the yolk of the 
egg. 

TAPIOCA PUDDINGS 





Tapioca 


Fluid Egg Sugar Flavor 


Cream; 


; 2 tb. minute or 


1/2 c. 1/2 I tb. Lemon rind 




I tb. pearl 


milk or 1/2 t. 

vanilla 


Baked: 


I tb. minute or 


1/2 c. 1/2 yolk I tb. Same 




pearl 


milk 


Coflfee: 


2 tb. minute or 


1/2 c. 1/2 white 2 tb. 




I tb. pearl 


strong of I egg 
coffee 


Fruit: 


2 tb. pearl or 


I c. boil- To taste i apple, or 




3 tb. minute 


ing water i peach or 

1/4 c. 
berries 



Method: Soak pearl tapioca if used. Put tapioca in liquid in double 



292 FOOD FACTS FOR THE HOME-MAKER 



boiler. Cook till transparent. Add egg-yolk, cook slightly. Add 
white beaten stiff. Put in mold. Serve cold with cream or a fruit 
sauce. 

JELLIES 
I t. granulated gelatine soaked in i tb. cold water. 



Hot liquid Sugar 

Lemon: 6 1/2 tb. boiling water 3 tb. 
Orange: 3 1/2 tb. boiling water 2 1/2 tb. 



Coffee: 4 tb. boiling water i tb. 

Wine: 5 tb. boiling water 2 1/2 tb. 

Grapefruit: 4 tb. boiling water 2 1/2 tb. 



Flavor 
I 1/2 tb. lemon juice 

3 tb. orange juice, 

and 1/2 tb. lemon 
juice 

4 tb. strong coffee 

3 tb. wine, 

1/2 tb. lemon juice 

4 tb. grapefruit juice 



IRISH MOSS BLANC MANGE 
1/4 cup Irish moss 1/3 teaspoon vanilla 



I 1/2 cups cold water 
I 3/4 cups milk 



Salt 



Pour cold water over moss and let stand 20 minutes. Pick 
over moss; add to milk and cook in double boiler 15 to 20 
minutes. Milk should be but very slightly thickened. Strain 
and add salt and vanilla. Strain again into molds. Serve 
with sugar and cream. Sea moss farina may be used in- 
stead of Irish moss — 2 teaspoons being sufficient to thicken 
a pint of milk. A little sugar may be added if desired. 



ABBREVIATIONS AND A TABLE 
OF MEASURES 

t. = teaspoon 
tb. = tablespoon 

c. = cup 
pt. = pint 
qt. = quart 

3 teaspoons = i tablespoon, or i/2 ounce 

4 tablespoons = 1/4 cup 
8 tablespoons =1/2 cup 

16 tablespoons = i cup, or 8 ounces 
2 cups = I pint, or i pound 

2 pints = I quart 

All measures are level (the flour leveled with the back of 
a knife to the edge of the spoon or cup). 
Sift all dry ingredients before measuring. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 

GENERAL REFERENCE BOOKS 

United States Food Administration. Food and the War. 

A textbook for college classes. Houghton Mifflin Com- 
pany. 1918. 
Robert Hutchison. Food and the Principles of Dietetics. 

William Wood and Company. 1917. 
W. H. Jordan. Principles of Human Nutrition. The Mac- 

millan Company. 1914. 
Vernon Kellogg and Alonzo E. Taylor. The Food 

Problem. The Macmillan Company. 1917. 
Helen Kinne and Anna M. Cooley. Foods and Household 

Management. The Macmillan Company. 1916. 
Mary Swartz Rose. Feeding the Family. The Macmillan 

Company. 19 17. 
Henry C. Sherman. Food Products. The Macmillan 

Company. 19 14. 
Henry C. Sherman. Chemistry of Foods and Nutrition. The 

Macmillan Company. 1918. 
Frank Hall Thorp. Outlines of Industrial Chemistry. The 

Macmillan Company. 1905. 

PAMPHLETS 

W. O. Atwater and A. P. Bryant. The Chemical Composi- 
tion of American Food Products. United States Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, Office of Experiment Station, Bulle- 
tin No. 28. 1906. 

W. O. Atwater. Principles of Nutrition and Nutritive Value 
of Food. United States Department of Agriculture, Farm- 
ers' Bulletin No. 142. 1917. 

Caroline L. Hunt and H. W. Atwater. L What the Body 



296 BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Needs. II. Cereal Foods. III. Foods Rich in Protein. United 
States Department of Agriculture. I. Farmers' Bulletin 
No. 808. March, 1917. II. Farmers' Bulletin No. 817. 
May, 1917. III. Farmers' Bulletin No. 824. July, 1917. 

Anna Barrows. The Farm Kitchen as a Workshop. United 
States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 
No. 607. 1914. 

E. T. Wilson. Modern Conveniences for the Farm Home. 
United States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bul- 
letin No. 270. 1916. 

Mary Hinman Abel. Care of Food in the Home. United 
States Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin 
No. 375. 1916. 

United States Department of Agriculture. Home-Made 
Fireless Cookers and Their Use. Farmers' Bulletin No. 771. 
1917. 

BOOKS ON THE CARE AND FEEDING OF 
CHILDREN 

Charles G. Kerley. Short Talks with Young Mothers. 

G. P. Putnam's Sons. 1919. 
L. Emmett Holt. The Care and Feeding of Children. 

D. Appleton & Company. 191 8. 
Richard Smith. The Baby^s First Two Years. Houghton 

Mifflin Company. 1915. 

PAMPHLETS ON THE CARE AND FEEDING OF 
CHILDREN 

Mary Swartz Rose. The Feeding of Young Children. 

Teachers College Bulletin, Technical Bulletin No. 3. 

January 14, 1911. 
Mary Swartz Rose. Food for School Boys and Girls. 

Teachers College Bulletin, Technical Bulletin No. 23. 

February 14, 19 14. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 297 

Reprinted from the Public Health Bulletin. Food for 
Children from Two to Six Years Old. Massachusetts State 
Department of Health. Volume 5. No. 2. 1918. 
Caroline L. Hunt. Food for Young Children. United States 
Department of Agriculture, Farmers' Bulletin No. 171. 
June, 1917. 
Lucy H. Gillett. Food Allowances for Healthy Children. 
Bureau of Food Supply, A.I.C.P., New York City. Pub- 
lication No. 115. 
Caroline L. Hunt. School Lunches. United States Depart- 
ment of Agriculture. Farmers' Bulletin No. 712. March 
17, 1916. 
Children's Bureau, U.S. Department of Labor. 
Care of Children Series; 
No. I. Prenatal Care. By Mrs. Max West. 
No. 2. Infant Care. By Mrs. Max West. 
No. 3. Child Care. By Mrs. Max West. 
No. 4. Milk. By Dorothy R. Mendenhall, M.D. 
Children's Year Follow-up Series: 

No. I. What is Malnutrition ? By Lydia Roberts. 

FARMERS' BULLETINS. UNITED STATES 
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE 

Mary Hinman Abel. Beans, Peas, and Other Legumes as 
Food. No. 121. 1916. 

Caroline L. Hunt and H. L. Wessling. Bread and Bread- 
Making in the Home. No. 807. 1917. 

C. D. Woods and Harry Snyder. Cereal Breakfast Foods. 
No. 249. 1917. 

C. F. Langworthy and C. L. Hunt. Cheese and its Eco- 
nomical Uses in the Diet. No. 487. 191 7. 

C. F. Langworthy and C. L. Hunt. Corn Meal as a Food 
and Ways of Using It. No. 565. 191 7. 

C. F. Langworthy and C. L. Hunt. Corn, Kafir, and Cow* 
peas in the Home. No. 559. 1913. 



298 BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Charles D. Woods. Food Value of Corn and Corn Products. 

No. 298. 1915. 
C. F. Langworthy. Use of Fruit as a Food. No. 293. 

1915- 
C. L. Hunt. Fresh Fruit and Vegetables as Conservers of 

Other Staple Foods. Number 871. 1917. 
C. L. Hunt. Honey and Its Uses in the Home. No. 653. 1915. 
C. F. Langworthy and C. L. Hunt. Economical Use of Meat 

in the Home. No. 391. 1910. 
Charles D. Woods. Meats: Composition and Cooking. 

No. 34. 1904. 
Whitaker, Rogers, and C. L. Hunt. Milk: Care of and Use 

in the Home. No. 413. 1917. 
R. D. Milner. The Use of Milk as Food. No. 363. 1916. 
C. F. Langworthy and C. L. Hunt. Mutton and Its Value 

in the Diet. No. 526. 19 16. 
Mary Hinman Abel. Sugar and Its Value as Food. No. 535. 

1915- 
Maria Parloa. Preparation of Vegetables for the Table. No. 
256. 1917. 

MISCELLANEOUS PAMPHLETS 

United States Department of Agriculture. Professional 

Papers. 
A. D. Holmes and H. L. Lang. Fats and Their Economical 

Use in the Home. Bulletin No. 469. December 15, 1916. 
A. D. Holmes. Studies on the Digestibility of Some Nut Oils. 

Bulletin No. 630. April 16, 1918. 
A. D. Holmes. Digestibility of Proteins Supplied by Soy-Bean 

and Peanut Press-Cake Flours. Bulletin No. 717. Sept. 25, 

1918. 
A. D. Holmes. Digestibility of Certain Miscellaneous Animal 

Fats. Bulletin No. 613. April 25, 1919. 
A. D. Holmes. Elements on the Digestibility of Fish. Bulletin 

No. 649. April 13, 1918. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 299 

The Agricultural Situation for 1918. Part II. Dairying. 
Circular No. 85. Jan. 31, 191 8. Office of the Secretary. 

Office of the Secretary. Cottage Cheese Dishes. Circular 
No. 109. April 15, 1918. 

Office of the Secretary. Use Rice Flour to Save Wheat. 
Circular No. 119. 1918. 

Office of the Secretary. Use of Soy-Bean Flour to Save 
Wheat, Meat, and Fat. Circular No. 113. 1918. 

United States Food Administration Bulletins and Cir- 
culars. 191 7 and 1918. 



INDEX 



Abbreviations, 293. 

Absorption of food, 234. 

Albumen water, 271. 

Allspice, 215. 

Almond extract, 216. 

Aluminum for kitchen utensils, 

14. 
Angel cake, 142. 
Angel cream, 208. 
Animal fats, 167. 
Anise, seeds, 215; oil, 216. 
Apple compote, 195; dumpling, 

195; ginger, 224; porcupine, 197; 
i pudding, 196; sauce, 197; tapioca 

or sago, 197. 
Apple sauce cake, 194. 
Asparagus loaf, 157. 

Babies. See Infants. 

Bacon and eggs, 253. 

Bacon (crisp) fat, 52. 

Baked bananas (i), 189; bananas 
(11), 190; beans, 90-92; bean 
soup, loi; bread and cheese, 94; 
cheese and pimento potato, 156; 
fish, 73; haddock, in cheese 
sauce, 74; halibut, with tomato 
sauce, 73; hominy, 116; potatoes, 
stuffed, 155; ripe cucumber, 159; 
smelts, 84; stuffed green peppers, 
161; tomatoes, 162. 

Baking-powder, 124, 125. 

Baking-powder method of mixing 
breadstuffs, 123. 

Baking-soda, I2a. 

Bananas, baked (i), 189; baked (11), 
190; fried, 189. 

Barley, 109, no. 

Barley and rice flour mufHns, 129, 

Barley cookies, 280. 

Barley sugar, 187. 

Barley water, for infants, 262; 
recipe for, 27 1. 

Basil, 215. 

Batter, pour, 121; drop, 121. 

Bavarian cream, 205, 206; cara- 



mel, 206; chocolate, 206; coffee, 
206. 

Bay-leaf, 215. 

Bean, baked, soup, loi ; black and 
white, soups, flavoring for, 100; 
dried, soup, 100; green, and 
pickled beet salad, 175; lima, and 
cheese roast, 95. 

Beans, 21; baked, 90-92; mashed, 
as basis for soups, 91; mold of, 
160; soy, 89. 

Beef, cuts of, 44-47; sides, 44; 
quarters, 45; loin, 46; rump, 46; 
round, 47. 

Beef, oatmeal, and tomato, 59; 
scraped, 271. 

Beef essence, bottled, 289; broiled, 
290. 

Beef fat, 167. 

Beef juice, 271. 

Beef olives, 56; roll, 59; stew, 54; 
tongue, fresh, 61. 

Beef tea, bottled, 289; broiled, 290; 
frozen, 290. 

Beet sugar, 184. 

Beverage recipes, 218-21: choco- 
late, 219; coffee, cold water, 218; 
coffee, filtered, 218; coffee, hot 
water, 218; coffee and choco- 
late, iced, 220; fruit punch, 220; 
grape juice (i), 220; grape juice 
(11), 221; lemon ginger ale, 220; 
tea, 218; tea, iced, 219; tea, 
Russian, 219, 

Beverages: chocolate, 214; cocoa, 
2H, 214; coffee, 211-13; fruit 
drinks, 214; tea, 211-13. 

Bibliography, 295-99. 

Bile, the, 232. 

Biscuits, cornmeal, 130. 

Black bean soup, flavoring for, lOO. 

Boiled frosting, 143; leg of mutton, 
57 ; macaroni with tomato sauce, 
117; rice pudding, 193. 

Boston baked beans. See Baked 
beans. 



Z02 



INDEX 



Boston cut, the, 44. 

Boston roast, 102. 

Bottled beef essence, 289; beef tea, 
289. 

Brains, 67; 4 la Newburg, 67; i la 
Poulette, 67; deviled, 67; omelet, 
68; salad, 68; scrambled, 68. 

Braised lambs' hearts, 61 ; beef, 55. 

Bran mulifins, 128. 

Bread, baked, and cheese, 94; corn- 
meal and wheat, 133; crisp corn, 
128; nut, 131; quick raisin, 130; 
potato, 133; rice, 134; rolled oats, 
133; rye, 134; spoon corn, 130. 

Bread-making, grains used for, 109; 
processes of, 126. 

Bread method of mixing bread- 
stuffs, 123. 

Bread pudding, 190. 

Breadstuffs, 19, 120; methods of 
mixing, 122, 123; leavening 
agents, 123-26. 

Breakfast, 253, 254, 

Breakfast cereals, in; malted, 1 12; 
used in other ways, 113. 

Breast feeding, 260, 261. 

Broiled beef essence, 290; beef tea, 
290. 

Broiling, 50. 

Broth, clam, 81; for infants, 271. 

Brown Betty, 191. 

Brown Susan, 191. 

Buckwheat griddle cakes, 131. 

Butter, peanut, 92; as ingredient 
of flour-mixtures, 122; used in 
cooking, 167; nut, 169; fruit, 225. 

Butter cake, 136. 

Butters, nut, or margarines, 169. 

Cabbage, and rice, 157; salad, hot, 

174. 

Cake, angel, 142; apple sauce, 194; 
butter, 136; chocolate, or devil's 
food, 139; chocolate nougat, 138; 
date kisses, 189; Dutch apple, 
196; golden, 142; Lady Balti- 
more, 139; marshmallow, 137; 
nut loaf, 140; sponge, 142; wal- 
nut, 137. 

Cake method of mixing breadstuffs, 
123. 

Calcium for the body, 23, 28, 146, 
247. 



Calorie, heat-unit, 239, 240. 

Calves' tongues with tomato sauce, 
60. 

Camembert cheese, 87. 

Canapes, cheese (i), 99; cheese (11), 
99; oyster, 82. 

Candies: cream candy, 188; fudge, 
188; molasses candy, 188; Olym- 
pian cream, 188; panocha, 187. 

Candy, unwholesome between 
meals, 234, 267, 275. 

Cane sugar, 183, 184. 

Canning of fish, 71, 72. 

Caper sauce, 66. 

Capers, 215. 

Caramel, method of making, 186. 

Caramel, Bavarian cream, 206; 
frosting, 143; sauce, 203. 

Caraway, 215. 

Carbohydrates, 18, 105. 

Carbon in foods, 18. 

Carrot and green pepper salad, 175. 

Carrot and orange marmalade, 222. 

Cassareep, 217. 

Casserole of roe, Maryland style, 
68. 

Cassia, 215. 

Catchup, 217. 

Cauliflower a la Hollandaise, 158. 

Cayenne, 216. 

Celery ramekins, 158. 

Celery seeds, 215. 

Cellulose, 20. 

Cereal, meanings of the term, 106. 

Cereal grains. See Grains. 

Cereal gruels for young children, 
264. 

Cereal recipes, 1 14-19: baked hom- 
iny, 116; boiled macaroni with 
tomato sauce, 117; gnocchi alia 
Romana, 118; green pea and 
oatmeal soup, 115; macaroni 
loaf, 118; macaroni with peppers, 
117; oatmeal and spinach soup, 
115; oatmeal pudding, 119; oat- 
meal soup, 114; Pittsburgh samp, 
119; rice and onion soup, 115; 
rice with parsley or chives, 116; 
scalloped rice, 116; Spanish pilaf, 
117; Turkish pilaf, 117. 

Cereals, 19; breakfast, in; malted, 
112; puffed, 112; uncooked, 112; 
cooking of, 113; in packages, 113; 



INDEX 



303 



breakfast, used in other ways, 
113; relative values of, as pur- 
chased, 114; proportions for 
cooking, 114. 

Chambery potatoes, 154. 

Charlotte russe, 207. 

Cheese, 21 ; food value of, 85; com- 
position of, 85; reasons for im- 
portance of, in diet, 85; kinds, 86; 
method of making, 86; ripening, 
86, 87; digestion, 87, 88; care of, 
88; use of, in diet, 88, 89. 

Cheese recipes, 93-99 : baked bread 
and cheese, 94; cheese and eggs, 
98; cheese canapes (i), 99; cheese 
canapes (11), 99; cheese cro- 
quettes, 98; cheese filling, 96; 
cheese jelly salad, 179; cheese 
patties, 99; cheese ramekin, 97; 
cheese scallop, 98; cheese soufHe, 
64, 94; cheese toast, 97; corn, 
tomato, and cheese, 95; cottage 
cheese nut loaf, 96; fondue, 93; 
lima bean and cheese roast, 95; 
risotto, 97; toasted sandwich, 95; 
Welsh rarebit, 93. 

Cherry puffs, 198; salad, 176, 

Chicken, and fowl, how to dis- 
tinguish between, 51; how to 
dress, 51; how to truss, 51, 52; 
use of the giblets for gravy, 52. 

Chicken, chartreuse, 65; creamed, 
with mushrooms, 62; fricassee 
Creole, 63; smothered, 63. 

Children, young, food of, 263-67; 
good food-habits and table man- 
ners in, to be formed early, 265; 
diet for, at twelve months, 267; 
diet for, at eighteen months, 268; 
two to four years old, simple 
menu for, 269; two to four years 
old, list of foods allowed to, 269, 
270. See Infants, School-chil- 
dren. 

Chili sauce, 228. 

Chipped pears, 224. 

Chocolate, as a beverage, 214; prep- 
aration of, for the table, 219. 

Chocolate, sweet, 181. 

Chocolate and almond pudding, 
202; Bavarian cream, 206; bread 
pudding, 190; cake, 139; corn- 
starch pudding, 193; hoovers, 



140; nougat cake, 203; nut 
cookies, 281; sauce, 203. 

Chow chow, 227. 

Chowder, clam, 81; corn, 34-; fish, 
77; vegetable, 154. 

Chutney, 217; recipe for making, 
228. 

Cinnamon, spice, 215; extract, 216. 

Clam, broth, 81; chowder, 81. 

Cleanliness, kitchen, 7, 12-15; o^ 
the housekeeper, 16. 

Clove extract, 217. 

Cloves, 216. 

Coal range, the, 10, 1 1. 

Cocoa, harmful ingredient of, 211; 
method of preparation for mar- 
ket, 214; method of making, 214. 

Cocoanut oil, 169. 

Cod, salted, 71. 

Coddled egg, 271. 

Codfish, salt, balls, 79; hash, 78. 

Coffee, as ingredient of flour- 
mixtures, 122; place of, in diet, 
211, 213; harmful ingredient of, 
211; method of preparation for 
market, 213; varieties of, 213. 

Coffee, cold water, 218; filtered, 218; 
hot water, 218. 

Coffee Bavarian cream, 206; 
mousse, 207; parfait, 209. 

Colds, diet in case of, 284. 

Composition of foods, 17-25. See 
Fruits, etc. 

Compote, apple, 195. 

Concentrated foods, 234. 

Condiments. See Pickles, sauces, 
preserves. 

Conserve, currant, 224; plum (i), 
224; plum (11), 225. 

Cookies, 278; barley, 280; chocolate 
nut, 281; molasses, 279. 

Cooking fats, 167. 

Corn, no. 

Corn and potato loaf, 156; bread, 
crisp, 128; bread, spoon, 130; 
cake, Rhode Island, 127; cakes, 
drop, 127; chowder, 34; dodger, 
121; fritters, Creole, 159; meal 
and wheat bread, 133; meal bis- 
cuits, 130; muffins, 129; oysters, 
158; pone, 127; pudding from 
fresh corn, 159; tomato, and 
cheese, 95. 



304 



INDEX 



Corn oil, 167, 168. 

Corned beef hash, 58. 

Cornmeal, 122. 

Cornstarch pudding, chocolate, 

193. 

Cottage cheese nut loaf, 96; ome- 
let, 38; pudding, 194; supper 
salad, 179. 

Cottonseed oil, 167, 168. 

Cream, angel, 208; Bavarian, 205, 
206; marshmallow, 137; Olym- 
pian, 188; Spanish, 205. 

Cream candy, 188. 

Cream of tartar, 124. 

Creamed chicken with mushrooms, 
62; eggs and potato, 156; pea- 
nuts and rice, 104; omelet, 39; 
sweetbreads, brains, or roe, 67. 

Creamy egg, 37. 

Creole corn fritters, 159; sauce, 65. 

Crisp corn bread, 128. 

Croquettes, 65; cheese, 98. 

Cucumber, baked ripe, 159. 

Cucumber and pineapple salad, 
177. 

Currant conserve, 224. 

Curry powder, 216. 

Curry sauce, 66. 

Custard, baked, 36; soft or boiled, 
36. 

Cuts of beef, 44-47; digestibility 
and nutritive value of the vari- 
ous, 48. 

Dairy herds, 27. 

Date kisses, 189; pudding, 198. 

Delmonico potatoes, 155. 

Dessert recipes: angel cream, 208; 
apple compote, 195; apple dump- 
ling, 195; apple porcupine, 197; 
apple pudding, 196; apple sauce, 
197; apple sauce cake, 194; apple 
tapioca or sago, 197; apricot 
sauce, 192; baked bananas (i), 
189; baked bananas (11), 190; 
Bavarian cream, 205; boiled rice 
pudding, 193; bread and butter 
pudding with whipped cream, 
190; bread puddings, 190; brown 
Betty, 191; brown Susan, 191; 
Charlotte russe, 207; cherry 
puffs, 198; chocolate and almond 
pudding, 202; chocolate corn- 



starch pudding, 193; cofTee 
mousse, 207; coffee parfait, 209; 
cottage pudding, 194; date kisses, 
189; date pudding, 198; Dutch 
apple cake, 196; fig pudding, 
201; fig toast, 189; foamy sauce, 
200; fried bananas, 189; frozen 
orange whip, 209; fruit pudding, 
205; fruit souffle, 208; 1-2-3 ice 
cream, 210; I ndia'n pudding, 191; 
Indian tapioca pudding, 192; 
jellied walnuts, 204; Jerusalem 
pudding, 207; lemon jelly, 204; 
lemon sauce, 194; maple mousse, 
209; molasses sauce, 206; orange 
Bavaroise, 206; orange tapioca, 
198; plum pudding without eggs, 
201; poor man's pudding, 193; 
prune pudding, 199; prune whip 
(i), 199; prune whip (11), 199; 
pudding sauces, 202-04; raisin 
pudding, 201; rice and apricot 
pudding, 192; rice flummery, 192; 
Spanish cream, 205; splash, 208; 
steamed suet and fruit pudding, 
200; vanilla mousse, 209; walnut 
ice, 210. 

Devil's food, 138; or chocolate 
cake, 139; filling for, 139. 

Devonshire sauce, 217. 

Dextrine, 105, 106. 

Diabetes, food for, 286. 

Diet, varied, 24, 253; a sufficient, 
241-43; recommendations for 
low-cost, 248, 249; for 3000 calo- 
ries, 251; for child at twelve 
months, 267 ; for child at eighteen 
months, 268; in colds, 284; in 
digestive troubles, 285. 

Dietary standards, 243. 

Diets, typical invalid, 282, 283; 
recipes for invalid, 287-92. 

Digestion, and fats, 164; the or- 
phans and the process of, 229-33; 
influences for good, 233, 234. 

Digestive troubles, diet in case of, 
285. 

Dinner, 255-57; combinations suit- 
able for, 257-59. 

Dishwashing, 15. 

Dough, soft, 121; stiff, 121. 

Dressing, for turkey, 66; for wild 
game, 66. 



INDEX 



305 



Dressing a chicken, 51. 
Dressings, salad. See Salad dress- 
ings. 
Dried bean soup, 100. 
Drop corn cakes, 127; ginger cakes, 

135- 
Drops, sponge, 140. 
Duck, mock, 55. 
Dumpling, apple, 195. 
Dutch apple cake, 196. 
Dutch cheese, 87. 

Egg and milk recipes, 34-41. See 
Milk. 

Egg lemonade, 288. 

Eggnogs, 290. 

Eggplant, fried, 159; scalloped, 
159; stuffed, 160. 

Eggs, protein in, 21, 26; food value 
oft 32, 33; how to cook, 33; 
boiled, 33; poached, 33; care of, 
33; how to preserve, 33; as in- 
gredient of flour mixtures, 122. 

Eggs, cheese and, 98; coddled, 
271; creamed, and potato, 156; 
creamy, 37; in mashed potato, 
41; poached, 37; scalloped, with 
cottage cheese, 38; scrambled, 
with asparagus, 37; scrambled, 
with cottage cheese, 38; scram- 
bled, with peas, 37; scrambled, 
with tomato, 37. See Omelet. 

Electric stove, the, il. 

Elements, 17. 

Enamel-ware, 14. 

Enzymes, 231, 232. 

Extracts, flavoring, 216, 217. 

Fairy gingerbread, 135. 

Farina cream soup, 35. 

Farinaceous puddings, 291. 

Farmers' Bulletins, the, 5. 

Fats, 20; the chief source of heat 
and energy in the body, 164; di- 
gestibility of, 164; quantity used 
, in United States, 165; need to 
save, 165; nature of, 165; use of, 
166; table, 167; cooking, 167; 
animal, 167; lard, 167; suet, 167; 
mutton, 167; of poultry, 167; 
oleomargarine, 168; vegetable, 
168; nut butters or margarines, 
169; place of, in the diet, 169; 



ways of avoiding waste of, 170; 

rendering of, 170; care of, 170; 

flavoring of, 170; savory, 171; 

digestibility of, 234; heat value 

of, 240. 
Fat-soluble A, 24, 147, 148. 
Fennel, 215. 

Ferments, organized, 230; unor- 
ganized, 231. 
Fevers, food for, 285. 
Fig filling, 137; pudding, 201 ; toast, 

189. 
Fillet, of beef, 46; of fish, stuffed 

with oysters, 74. 
Filling, 139; cheese, 96; fig, 137; 

for devil's food, 139; sour-cream, 

137. 

Finnan haddie, 80; savory, 80; 
Scottish, 79. 

Fireless cookers, 11, 

Fish, 21; comparative use of, in 
United States and in Europe, 69; 
composition of, 69; groups of, 69, 
70; buying, 70; the preserving of, 
71 ; frozen, 71 ; salted, 71 ; canned, 
71, 72; care of, 724J^a^ of 
cooking, 72, 73. 

Fish recipes: baked fish, 73; clam 
broth, 81; clam chowder, 81; 
codfish balls, 79; codfish (salt) 
hash, 78; fillets of fish, stuffed 
with oysters, 74; fish k la cieme, 
79; fish chowder, 77; haddock k 
la Newton, 75; haddock baked 
in cheese sauce, 74; halibut, 
baked, with tomato sauce, 73; 
halibut, molded, 75; kedgeree, 
76; finnan haddie, 80; finnan 
haddie, savory, 80; finnan haddie, 
Scottish, 79; oyster canapes, 82; 
oysters, fairy roast, 82; oysters, 
fried, 82; oysters, jellied, 83; 
oysters, panned, 82; oysters, 
sauted, 83; potato shredded fish 
souffle, 78; salmon timbale or 
loaf, 76; scalloped fish, 76; scal- 
lops (i), 83; scallops (11), 83; 
scallops, stewed, 83; scrod, to 
cook, 74; shrimp wiggle, 77; 
smelts, baked, 84; smelts, fried, 
84; whitebait, 84. 

Flavoring herbs, spices, and ex- 
tracts, 215-17. 



3o6 



INDEX 



Flaxseed lemonade, 288. 

Flour, kinds of, 109; grades of, 120, 
121; graham, 121; entire wheat, 
121. 

Flour-mills, 108. 

Flour mixtures, 121; proportions 
for, 121; effect of ingredients on, 
122. 

Fluid diet, 282, 

Flummery, rice, 192. 

Foamy sauce, 200. 

Fondue, 93. 

Food, the importance of, 1-5; 
health dependent on, 4; habits 
concerning, 4, 5; care of, 14, 15; 
composition of, 17-25; definition 
of, 17; energy-producing, 19; 
containing starch, 19; containing 
sugar, 19; heat-producing, 20; 
containing nitrogen, 21; tissue- 
producing, 21; containing min- 
eral matter, 22-24; five classes 
of, 26; the process of utilization 
of, one of combustion, 229; di- 
gestion of, 229-34; concentrated, 
234; absorption of, 234; uses of, 
in the body, 235; wastes in proc- 
ess of utilization of, 235, 236; 
diagram of changes undergone 
by, in the body, 237; fuel, 238, 
239; fuel values of, 240, 241; 
building material supplied by, 
243-47; cost of, 248, 249; groups 
01, based on chemical composi- 
tion, 250; division of, into meals, 
251, 252; for infants and young 
children, 260-72; list of articles 
of, allowed a child two to four 
years old, 269, 270; recipes for 
infant, 271, 272; good supply 
necessary for school-children, 
273; the right, for school-chil- 
dren, 274; vagaries in, harmful, 
275; typical invalid diets, 282, 
283; serving of, to invalids, 283; 
requirement of, in sickness, 283, 
284; for slight illnesses, 284, 285; 
for special diseases, 285-87. 

Fowl. See Chicken. 

French omelet, 40. 

Fricassee, chicken, Creole, 63. 

Fricasseed rabbit, 63. 

Fried bananas, 189; eggplant, 159; 



oysters — fancy roast, 82; salt 
pork, 58; smelts, 84. 

"Frikasie," a, 63. 

Fritters, Creole corn, 159. 

Frosting, boiled, 143; caramel, 143; 
maple sugar, 136; uncooked, 144. 

Frosting sauce, 202. 

Frozen beef tea, 290; orange whip, 
209. 

Fruit butter, 225; pudding, 205; 
punch, 220; salads, see Salad; 
soufHe, 208. 

Fruit drinks, 214. 

Fruit sugar, 185. 

Fruits, composition of, 22-24, 146; 
a source of minerals, 23, 24, 146; 
a source of vitamines, 24, 147, 
148; consumption of, should be 
increased, 145; ways of grouping, 
148; uses of, 149, 152; prepara- 
tion of pectin for jellying of, 152, 
153; sugar in, 185. 

Fudge, 188. 

Fuel, need of, for the body, 238; 
provided by food, 238, 239. 

Game, wild, dressing, 66. 

Garlic, 215. 

Gas stove, the, il. 

Gastric juice, 231. 

German horseradish sauce, 57. 

Giblet gravy, 62. 

Ginger, 216. 

Ginger ale, lemon, 220. 

Ginger ale salad, 177. 

Gingerbread, fairy, 135; old-fash- 
ioned soft, 135; soft, 135. 

Ginger cakes, drop, 135. 

Ginger snaps, 279. 

Glucose, 185. 

Gluten, 107. 

Gnocchi alia Romana, 118. 

Golden cake, 142; sauce, 202. 

Gout, food for, 287. 

Graham flour, 121. 

Grain, structure of the kernels of, 
106, 107. 

Grains, cereal, 107, 108; milling, 
108; used for bread-making, 109; 
barley, 109, no; corn, no; oats, 
no; rice, in; rye, in. See 
Cereals. 

Grape juice, 220, 221. 



INDEX 



307 



Grape marmalade, 221; preserves, 

221. 
Grapes, spiced, 221. 
Green peppers stuflfed with cow 

peas, loi. 
Green tomato marmalade, 223. 
Griddle cakes, buckwheat, 131. 
Griddle cakes, difficult to digest, 

253- 
Grilled muffins, 132. 
Grinding, 108. 
Gruels, cereal, for young children, 

264; recipes for, 272, 290. 

Habits, food, 4, 5. 

Haddock, k la Newton, 75; baked 

in cheese sauce, 74. 
Halibut, baked, with tomato sauce, 

73; molded, 75. 
Hamburg steak, 56. 
Hard sauce, 202, 
Harvey sauce, 217. 
Hash, corned beef, 58; salt codfish, 

78; vegetable, 155. 
Health dependent on food, 4. 
Hearts, lambs', braised, 61. 
Heat, unit of, the calorie, 239, 240. 
Herbs, flavoring, 215. 
Hind shin, the, 47. 
Hindu salad, 176. 
Hoe-cake, 121. 
Hollandaise sauce, 158. 
Holt, Dr., Care of the Baby, 262. 
Hominy, 112; baked, 116; cake, 

128; puffs, 127. 
Honey, 185. 

Hoovers, chocolate, 140. 
Horseradish sauce, German, 57. 
Housekeeper, the responsibility of, 

1,2. 
Housekeeping, the profession of, 

2-4. 

Ice cream, 1-2-3, 210. 

Iced coffee and chocolate, 220; tea, 
219. 

Indian pudding, 191; tapioca pud- 
ding, 192. 

Infants, mother's milk for, 260, 
261; modified milk for, 261, 262; 
other foods for, 262; regular 
feeding hours for, 263; recipes for 
foods for, 271, 272. See Children. 



Intestine, small and large, 232, 233. 

Invalid diets, recipes for, 287-92: 
bottled beef essence, 289; bottled 
beef tea, 289; broiled beef es- 
sence, 290; broiled beef tea, 290; 
egg lemonade, 288; eggnogs, 290; 
farinaceous puddings, 291; flax- 
seed lemonade, 288; frozen beef 
tea, 290; gruels, 290; Irish moss 
blanc mange, 292; Irish moss 
lemonade, 289; jellies, 292; ku- 
myss, 289; lemon whey, 288; 
lemonade, 288; syrup for fruit 
beverages, 288; tapioca pud- 
dings, 291; toast water, 287. 

Invalids, typical diets for, 282, 283; 
serving of food to, 283; food re- 
quirement of, 283, 284. 

Invert sugar, 185. 

Irish moss blanc mange, 292; 
lemonade, 289. 

Iron, needed in the body, 23, 246; 
portions containing two milli- 
grams, 246, 247. 

Jam, peach, and marmalade, 222. 
Japanese salad, 178. 
Jellied oysters, 83; walnuts, 204. 
Jelly, for invalids, 292; lemon, 204; 

orange Bavaroise, 206; quince 

and cranberry, 225; tomato 

salad, 176. 
Jellying, preparation of pectin for, 

152, 153- 
Jerusalem pudding, 207. 
Jumbles, peanut butter, 280. 
Junket, 272. 

Kedgeree, 76. 

Kentucky potatoes, 154. 

Kerley, Dr., Short Talks with 
Young Mothers, 262. 

Kernels, structure of, 106, 107. 

Ketchup. See Catchup. 

Kisses, date, 189. 

Kitchen, skilled labor in, 6; the old- 
fashioned, 7; plan of, 7-9; equip- 
ment of, 10-16. 

Kumyss, 289. 



Labor-saving devices i 

kitchen, 10. 
Lady Baltimore cake, 139. 



the 



308 



INDEX 



Lamb, breast of, roast, 57. 

Lambs' hearts, braised, 61. 

Lard, 167. 

Leavening agents, 123-26. 

Legumes, 89-92. See Bean(s), 
Pea(s), Pulses. 

Legumes, recipes for, 99-104: 
baked bean soup, loi; Boston 
roast, 102; creamed peanuts and 
rice, 104; dried bean soup, 100; 
green peppers stuffed with cow 
peas, loi; lentil loaf, loi; lentil 
or split-pea soup, 99; pecan nut 
loaf, white sauce, 102; rice and 
nut loaf, 103; vegetable roast, 
103. 

Lemon bread pudding, 190; ginger 
ale, 220; jelly, 204; sauce, 194; 
whey, 288. 

Lemon extract, 217. 

Lemonade, 288; egg, 288; flaxseed, 
288; Irish moss, 289. 

Lentil loaf, loi ; or split-jjea soup, 

T 99- 

Liberty muffins, 128. 

Light or convalescent diet, 283. 

Lima bean and cheese roast, 95. 

Limewater, 261, 272. 

Liver, function of the, 230. 

Loaf, asparagus, 157; corn and po- 
tato, 156; cottage cheese nut, 96; 
lentil, loi; macaroni, 118; pecan 
nut, white sauce, 102; prune, 
131; rice and nut, 103; salmon, 
76. 

Loin, the, 46. 

Lunch, school and college, 277. 

Lunch-box, the planning of the, 
276; recipes for the, 278-81. 

Luncheon, 254, 255. 

Lungs, function of the, 230. 

Macaroni, boiled, with tomato 
sauce, 117; with peppers, 117. 

Macaroons, nut, 141; Swedish, 141. 

Mace, 216. 

Magnesium in fruits and vege- 
tables, 24. 

Malt, 112. 

Malt sugar, 185. 

Malted breakfast foods, 112. 

Maltose, 106. 

Maple mousse, 209. 



Maple sugar, 183. 

Maple sugar frosting, 136. 

Margarines, nut, 169. 

Marguerites, 141. 

Marjoram, 215. 

Marmalade, carrot and orange, 

222; grape, 221; green tomato, 

223; orange, 222; peach jam and, 

222. 
Marshmallow cake, 137; cream or 

paste, 137. 
Mastication, proper, importance of, 

231. 233- 

Meals, division of food into, 251, 
252; regularity of hours of, de- 
sirable, 252; variety in, essential, 
252, 253. See Breakfast, etc. 

Measures, a table of, 293. 

Meat, 21; cost of, 42; composition 
of, 42, 43; tough and tender, 43, 
44; ways of cooking, 48; soup- 
making, 48, 49; roasting and 
broiling, 49, 50; stewing, 50. 

Meat recipes, 53-68. 

Meat ball with horseradish sauce, 
56; pie, rice, 60; scalloped, 59. 

Menu, simple, for child two to four 
years old, 269; for the school 
lunch-box, 278. 

Menus, the making of, 248-59. 

Milk, protein in, 21, 26, 27, 29; 
calcium in, 22, 23, 28; food value 
of, 27-29; a "protective food," 
27; sugar of, 28, 184, 185; vita- 
mines in, 28; price of, 29; use of, 
in cooking, 30; care of, 30-32; 
grades of, 30, 31 ; pasteurized, 31 ; 
sterilized, 31, 32; care of bottles 
and other utensils used for, 32; 
skimmed, 32; mother's and modi- 
fied, for infants, 260-63. 

Milk and egg recipes, 34-41 : baked 
custard, 36; corn chowder, 34; 
cottage cheese omelet, 38; cream 
of cottage cheese soup, 35 ; cream 
soups, 35; creamed omelet, 39; 
creamy egg, 37; eggs in mashed 
potato, 41; farina cream soup, 
35; French omelet, 40; hearty 
omelet, 40; light omelet, 39; ome- 
let souffle, 39; poached egg, 37; 
potage k la reine, 35; scalloped 
eggs with cottage cheese, 38; 



INDEX 



309 



scrambled eggs with asparagus, 
37; scrambled eggs with cottage 
cheese, 38; scrambled eggs with 
peas, 37; scrambled eggs with 
tomato, 37; soft or boiled cus- 
tard, 36; spinach omelet, 40. 

Mills and milling, 108. 

Mince meat, tomato, 223. 

Mineral matter in food, 22-24, 146. 
147. 

Mint, 215. 

Mixed spices, 196, 279. 

Mock duck, 55. 

Molasses candy, 188; cookies, 279; 
sauce, 196. 

Mold, of peas or beans, 160; of 
spinach, 161. 

Mother's scalloped potatoes, 155. 

Mousse, coffee, 207; maple, 209; 
vanilla, 209. 

Mouth, the, 230. 

Muffin, bread, and cake recipes, 
127-44: angel cake, 142; barley 
and rice flour muffins, 129; boiled 
frosting, 143; bran muffins, 128; 
buckwheat griddle cakes, 131; 
butter cake, 136; caramel frost- 
ing, 143; chocolate cake, or 
devil's food, 139; chocolate hoov- 
ers, 140; chocolate nougat cake, 
139; cornmeal and wheat bread, 
133; cornmeal biscuits, 130; corn 
muffins, 129; corn pone, 127; 
crisp corn bread, 128; devil's 
food, 138; drop corn cakes, 127; 
drop ginger cakes, 135; fairy 
gingerbread, 135; fig filling, 137; 
filling, 139; filling for devil's food, 
139; golden cake, 142; grilled 
muffins, 132; hominy puffs, 127; 
Lady Baltimore cake, 139; lib- 
erty muffins, 128; maple sugar 
frosting, 136; marguerites, 141; 
marshmallow cake, 137; marsh- 
mallow cream or paste, 137; nut 
bread, 131; nut loaf cake, 140; 
nut macaroons, 141; old-fash- 
ioned soft gingerbread, 135; pis- 
tachio paste, 138; potato bread, 
133; prune loaf, 131; quick raisin 
bread, 130; raised muffins, 132; 
raised waffles, 132; Rhode Island 
corn cake, 127; rice bread, 134; 



rice or hominy cake, 128; rolled 
oats bread, 133; rye bread, 134; 
rye muffins, 129; soft ginger- 
bread, 135; sour-cream filling, 
137; sponge cake, 142; sponge 
drops, 140; spoon corn bread, 
130; Swedish macaroons, 141; 
uncooked frosting, 144; walnut 
cake, 137. 

Muffin method of mixing bread- 
stuffs, 122. 

Mush, 108, 264. 

Mustard, seeds, 216; prepared, 216. 

Mustard pickle, 227. 

Mutton, leg of, boiled, 57; stew, 

57. 
Mutton fat, 167. 

New York or Philadelphia cut, the, 

44. 45- 

Nitrogen in food, 21, 244, 245. 

Nursing mothers, suggestions for, 
260, 261. 

Nut bread, 131; loaf, cottage 
cheese, 96; (pecan) loaf, white 
sauce, 102; loaf cake, 140; loaf 
and rice, 103; macaroons, 141. 

Nut butter, and nut butters or 
margarines, 169. 

Nutmeg, 216. 

Nutrition, an exact science, 5. 

Nuts, 21, 92, 93. 

Oatmeal, and spinach soup, 115; 
beef, and tomato, 59; green pea 
and, soup, 115; soup, 114. 

Oats, no; rolled, 112. 

Oil, salad, 167; olive, 167, 168; cot- 
tonseed, 167, 168; corn, 167, 168; 
peanut, 169; cocoanut, 169; from 
other seeds, 169. 

Oil pickles, 226. 

Oleomargarine, 168. 

Olive oil, 167, 168. 

Olives, beef, 56. 

Olympian cream, 188. 

Omelet, cottage cheese, 38; 
creamed, 39; French, 40; a 
hearty, 40; light, 39; souffle, 39; 
spinach, 40; sweetbreads, brains, 
or roe, 68. 

Onion and rice soup, 115. 

Orange and grape salad, 178; Bava- 



3IO 



INDEX 



roise, 206; marmalade, 222; 

whip, frozen, 209. 
Orange extract, 217. 
Orange juice, for young children, 

262. 
Organized ferments, 230. 
Organs of digestion, 229-33. 
Oyster canapes, 82; salad, i8o. 
Oysters, corn, 158; fancy roast, 82; 

fried, 82; jellied, 83; panned, 82; 

sautid, 83. 

Panned oysters, 82. 

Panocha, 187. 

Paprika, 216. 

Paste, marshmallow, 137; pis- 
tachio, 138. 

Pasteurization, 31. 

Pastry or baking-powder method 
of mixing breadstuffs, 123. 

Patties, cheese, 99. 

Pea (green), and oatmeal soup, 115; 
salad, 175; souffle, 160. 

Peach and ripe olive salad, 178; 
jam and marmalade, 222. 

Peanut, the, 89, 90, 92. 

Peanut butter, 92; oil, 169. 

Peanut butter jumbles, 280. 

Peanuts and rice, creamed, 104. 

Pear salad, 178. 

Pears, chipped, 224. 

Peas, 21. 

Peas, mold of, 160. 

Pecan nut loaf, white sauce, 102. 

Pectin, 152, 153. 

Pepper hash, 227. 

Peppermint extract, 217. 

Peppers, 216. 

Peppers, green, stuffed and baked, 
161 ; green, stuffed with cow peas, 

lOI. 

Pepsin, 231. 

Phosphorus, needed in the body, 

246. 
Pickle, mustard, 227. 
Pickles, 217; oil, 226; sweet, 226. 
Pickling, 226-28. 
Pie, rice meat, 60; shepherd's, 60. 
Pigs in clover, 62. 
Pilaf, Spanish, 117; Turkish, 117. 
Pistachio paste, 138. 
Pittsburgh samp, 119. 
Plain stew, 54. 



Plum conserve, 224, 225; pudding 
without eggs, 201. 

Poached egg, 37. 

Pone, corn, 127. 

Poor man's pudding, 193. 

Porcupine, apple, 197. 

Pork, 52. 

Pork, salt, fried, 58; with baked 
beans, 97. 

Potage k la reine, 35. 

Potassium, need of, for functioning 
of the body, 24; in fruit and vege- 
tables, 146. 

Potato, as staple of diet, 145; 
starch in, 146; baked, 149. 

Potato, bread, 133; loaf, corn and, 
156; salad, 175; shredded fish 
souffle, 78; soup, 154. 

Potatoes, chambery, 154; creamed 
eggs and, 156; Delmonico, 155; 
goldenrod, 156; Kentucky, 154; 
mashed — company style, 154; 
mashed, eggs in, 41; mother's 
scalloped, 155; pimento, baked 
cheese, 156; stuffed baked, 155. 

Poultry, fat of, 167. See Chicken. 

Poultry stuffing, herbs used in, 215. 

Preserves: apple ginger, 224; carrot 
and orange marmalade, 222; 
chipped pears, 224; currant con- 
serve, 224; fruit butter, 225; 
grape marmalade, 221; grape 
preserves, 221; green tomato 
marmalade, 223; orange marma- 
lade, 222; peach jam and mar- 
malade, 222; plum conserve (i), 
224; plum conserve (11), 225; 
quince and cranberry jelly, 225; 
raspberry bar-le-duc, 225; spiced 
grapes, 22 1 ; tomato mince meat, 
223; tomato preserve, 223. 

Protein, 21; foods containing, 26, 
244; necessary quantity of, 244, 
245; one half ounce portions of, 
245, 246. 

Prune juice, 272. 

Prune loaf, 131; pudding, 199; 
whip (i), 199; whip (11), 199. 

Pudding, apple, 196; apple tapioca 
or sago, 197; boiled rice, 193; 
bread and butter, with whipped 
cream, 190; bread, 190; brown 
Betty, 191; brown Susan, 191; 



INDEX 



311 



cherry puffs, 198; chocolate and 
almond, 202; chocolate corn- 
starch, 193; corn, from fresh 
corn, 159; cottage, 194; date, 
198; farinaceous, for invalids, 
291; fig, 201; fruit, 205; Indian, 
191; Indian tapioca, 192; Jeru- 
salem, 207; oatmeal, 119; orange 
tapioca, 198; plum, without eggs, 
201 ; poor man's, 193; prune, 199; 
raisin, 201; rice and apricot, 192; 
rice flummery, 192; steamed suet 
and fruit, 200; tapioca, for in- 
valids, 291. 

Pudding sauce, brown sugar, 203; 
caramel, 203; chocolate, 203; 
frosting, 202; golden, 202; hard, 
202; raisin, 203; vanilla, 203. 

Puffed cereals, 112. 

Puffs, cherry, 198; hominy, 127. 

Pulses, 89-92: value as food, 89; 
the soy bean and the peanut, 89, 
90, 92; how to use, 90; baked 
beans, 90-92; ways of serving 
boiled, 91. See Legumes. 

Punch, fruit, 220. 

Quarters of beef, 45. 
Quick raisin bread, 130. 
Quince and cranberry jelly, 225. 

Rabbit, fricasseed, 63. 

Raised muffins, 132; waffles, 132. 

Raisin bread, quick, 130; pudding, 
201; sauce, 203. 

Ramekin, celery, 158; cheese, 97. 

Rarebit, Welsh, 93. 

Raspberry bar-le-duc, 225. 

Refrigerator, the, 9, 12, 13. 

Rendering of fats, 170. 

Rennin, 231. 

Rheumatism, food for, 287. 

Rhode Island corn cake, 127. 

Rice, III. 

Rice, and apricot pudding, 192; 
and barley flour muffins, 129; 
and nut loaf, 103; and onion 
soup, 115; and peanuts, creamed, 
104; bread, 134; cabbage and, 
157; cakes, 128; flummery, 192; 
meat pie, 60; pudding, boiled, 
193; scalloped, 116; with parsley 
or chives, 116. 



Risotto, 97. 

Roasting, 49. 

Roe, shad or other, 67; ^ la New- 
burg, 67; k la Poulette, 67; 
broiled, 68; creamed, 67; en 
casserole, Maryland style, 68; 
omelet, 68; salad, 68. 

Roll, beef, 59. 

Rolled oats, 112. 

Rolled oats and peanut butter 
cookies, 280; bread, 133; wafers, 
281. 

Roquefort cheese, 86. 

Round, the, 47. 

Rump, the, 46. 

Russian tea, 219. 

Rye, III. 

Rye bread, 134; muflins, 129. 

Saffron, 215. 

Sage, 215. 

Sago, 106. 

Sago, apple, 197. 

Salad, carrot and green pepper, 
175; cheese jelly, 179; cherry, 
176; cottage cheese, 179; cottage 
cheese supper, 179; cucumber 
and pineapple, 177; ginger ale, 
177; hot cabbage, 174; green 
bean and pickled beet, 175; 
Hindu, 176; Japanese, 178; or- 
ange and grape, 178; oyster, 180; 
pea, 175; peach and ripe olive, 
178; pear, 178; potato, 175; to- 
mato salad jelly, 176; trans- 
Mississippi Exposition, 178. 

Salad, sweetbreads, brains, or roe, 
68. 

Salad dressing, boiled, 172; boiled, 
for fruit salad, 174; California 
mayonnaise, 172; cream, 173; 
French, 172; mayonnaise, 173; 
Russian, 174. 

Salad oil, 167. 

Salads, chicken and lobster, diffi- 
cult to digest, 253. 

Salisbury steak, 56. 

Saliva, the, 230. 

Salmon, canned, 71. 

Salmon timbale or loaf, 76. 

Salt, 23. 

Salt codfish balls, 79; hash, 78. 

Salt fish, 71. 



312 



INDEX 



Salt fKjrk, fried, 58; with baked 
beans, 92. 

Samp, Pittsburgh, 119. 

Sandwich, toasted, 95. 

Sardines, 72. 

Sauces: apple, 197; foamy, 200; 
Hollandaise, 158; lemon, 194; 
molasses, 196. 

Sauces for meats, fish, etc.: 
brown, 103; caper, 66; cheese, 74; 
cream, 162; Creole, 65; curry, 66; 
for molded halibut, 73; tomato, 
73, 78, 102, 104, 118; white, 102. 

Sauces, pudding: brown sugar, 203; 
caramel, 203; chocolate, 203; 
frosting, 202; golden, 202; hard, 
202; raisin, 203; vanilla, 203. 

Sauces, relishes: cassareep, 217; 
catchup, 217; chili sauce, 228; 
chutney, 217; Devonshire sauce, 
217; Harvey sauce, 217; soy 
sauce, 217; Tabasco sauce, 217; 
walnut catchup, 217; Worces- 
tershire sauce, 217. 

Sauted oysters, 83. 

Savory, summer, 215. 

Savory fats, 171. 

Savory finnan haddie, 80, 

Scallop, cheese, 98. 

Scalloped eggplant, 159; eggs with 
cottage cheese, 38; fish, 76; green 
tomatoes, 162; meat, 59; pota- 
toes, mother's, 155; rice, 116. 

Scallops (i), 83; (11), 83; stewed, 83. 

School-children, good supply of 
food necessary for, 273; signs of 
good health in, 273; the right 
food for, 274; vagaries in food of, 
harmful, 275; the planning of 
the lunch-box for, 276. 

Scottish fancies or rolled oats 
wafers, 281. 

Scottish finnan haddie, 79. 

Scrambled brains, 68, eggs, with 
asparagus, 37 ; eggs, with cottage 
cheese, 38; eggs, with peas, 37; 
eggs, with tomato, 37. 

Scrod, to cook, 74, 

Shad or other roe. See Roe. 

Shellfish. See Clam(s), oyster(s), 
scallops, shrimp. 

Shepherd's pie, 60. 

Shrimp wiggle, 77. 



Sides of beef, 44. 

Sink, the, 9, 13, 14. 

Smelts, baked, 84; fried, 84. 

Smith, Dr. Richard, The Baby's 
First Two Years, 262. 

Smothered chicken, 63. 

Soda, baking, 124. 

Sodium, need of, in the body, 23; 
in fruit and vegetables, 146. 

Soft gingerbread, 135; old-fash- 
ioned gingerbread, 135. 

Soft or semi-solid diet, 283. 

Souffle, 64; cheese, 64, 94; fruit, 
208; omelet, 39; pea, 160; potato 
shredded fish, 78; squash, 162. 

Soup, baked bean, loi; black and 
white bean, flavoring for, 100; 
dried bean, 100; cheese, 34; 
cream, 34; cream of cottage 
cheese, 35; farina cream, 35; 
green pea and oatmeal, 115; len- 
til and split pea, 99; mashed 
beans as basis for, 91; oatmeal, 
114; oatmeal and spinach, 115; 
peanut, 34; potage ci la reine, 35; 
potato, 154; rice and onion, 115; 
tomato, 153; vegetable, 153; 
wheat cream, 36. 

Soup-making from meat, 48, 49, 

Soup stock, 53; to clarify, 53. 

Sour-cream filling, 137. 

Soy bean, 89, 90. 

Soy sauce, 217. 

Spanish cream, 205; pilaf, 117. 

Sparerib, stuffed, 58. 

Spiced grapes, 221. 

Spices, mixed, 196, 279; use of the 
various, 215, 216; as ingredient 
of flour-mixtures, 122. 

Spinach, mold of, 161 ; oatmeal and, 
soup, 115; omelet, 40. 

Splash, 208. 

Split-pea soup, 99. 

Sponge cake, 142; drops, 140. 

Spoon corn bread, 130. 

Squash souffle, 162. 

Starch, 19; changes undergone by, 
105, 106; source of, 106; in the 
potato, 146; converted into 
sugar, in the body, 231, 232. 

Steak, Hamburg, 56; Salisbury, 
56. 

Steaks, 46. 



INDEX 



313 



Steamed suet and fruit pudding, 

200. 
Sterilization, 31, 32. 
Stew, beef, 54; mutton, 57; plain, 

54-. 

Stewing, 50. 

Stomach, action of the, 231. 

Stoves, kinds of, 10, ii; care of, li, 
12. 

Stuffed and baked green peppers, 
161; baked potatoes, 155; egg- 
plant, 160; sparerib, 58. 

Stuffing, 55; poultry, herbs used in, 

215. 

Sucrose, 183. 

Suet, 167. 

Suet and fruit pudding, steamed, 
200. 

Sugar, as ingredient of flour mix- 
tures, 122; value as food, 181; 
danger of improper use of, 181; 
valuable to prevent exhaustion 
under physical stress, 181; earlier 
forms in which it was used, 182; 
supply of, 182, 183; shortage of, 
durmg the War, 183; kinds of, 
183; cane, 183, 184; beet, 184; 
of milk, 185; malt, 185; fruit, 185; 
invert, 185; action of, on boiling, 
186; barley, 187; proper use of, 
in diet, 187. 

Sugar of milk, 28, 184, 185. 

Sugars, 19, 183-85. 

Sulphur, needed in the body, 246. 

Summer savory, 215. 

Supper, 254, 255. 

Swedish macaroons, 141. 

Sweet pickles, 226. 

Sweetbreads, 67 ; ^ la Newburg, 67 ; 
k la Poulette, 67; creamed, 67; 
omelet, 68; salad, 68. 

Swiss cheese, 87. 

Syrup, action in 'boiling, 186; tests 
of, 186; for fruit beverages, 288. 

Tabasco, 216, 217. 

Table fats, 167. 

Tapioca, apple, 197; orange, 198; 

puddings, for invalids, 291. 
Tarragon, 215. 
Tea, place of, in diet, 211, 213; 

harmful ingredient of, 211; 

method of preparation for mar- 



ket, 212; kinds of, 212; Pekoe, 
212; Oolong, 212; Orange Pekoe, 
212; Chinese, 212; Indian, 212; 
Ceylon, 212; green, 212; black, 
212; method of making, 212. 

Tea, 218; iced, 219; Russian, 219. 

Teeth, the, 229. 

Tenderloin, the, 46. 

Thyme, 215. 

Timbale, salmon, 76. 

Toast, cheese, 97. 

Toast water, 287. 

Tomato, beef, oatmeal, and, 59; 
corn, and cheese, 95. 

Tomato preserve, 223; (green) 
marmalade, 223; mince meat, 
223; salad jelly, 95; soup, 153. 

Tomatoes, baked, 162; fried, with 
cream dressing, 162; scalloped 
green, 162. 

Tongue, calves', with tomato sauce, 
60; fresh beef's, 61. 

Trans-Mississippi Exposition salad, 
178. 

Trussing, 51, 52. 

Tuberculosis, food for, 286. 

Turkey, dressing for, 66. 

Turkish pilaf, 117. 

Typhoid fever, food for, 285. 

Uncooked frosting, 144. 
Unorganized ferments, 231. 
Utensils, kitchen, 7-9, 14. 

Vanilla extract, 217. 

Vanilla mousse, 209; sauce, 203. 

Vegetable fats, 168. 

Vegetable recipes, 153-63: aspara- 
gus loaf, 157; baked cheese and 
pimento potato, 156; baked ripe 
cucumber, 159; baked tomatoes, 
162; cabbage and rice, 157; cauli- 
flower k la Hollandaise, 158; cel- 
ery ramekins, 158; Chambery 
potatoes, 154; corn and potato 
loaf, 156; corn pudding from 
fresh corn, 159; corn oysters, 
159; creamed eggs and potato, 
156; Creole corn fritters, 159; 
Delmonico potatoes, 155; fried 
eggplant, 159; fried tomatoes 
with cream dressing, 162; Hol- 
landaise sauce, 158; Kentucky 



314 



INDEX 



potatoes, 154; mashed potatoes 
— company style, 154; mold of 
peas or beans, 160; mold of 
spinach, 161; mother's scalloped 
potatoes, 155; pea soufHe, 160; 
potato soup, 154; potatoes gold- 
enrod, 156; scalloped eggplant, 
159; scalloped green tomatoes, 
162; squash souffle, 162; stuffed 
and baked green tomatoes, 161; 
stuffed baked potatoes, 155; 
stuffed eggplant, 160; tomato 
soup, 153; vegetable chowder, 
154; vegetable hash, 155; vege- 
table roast, 103; vegetable soup, 
153. See Legumes. 

Vegetable salads, 174-76. See 
Salad. 

Vegetables, composition of, 22-24, 
146; a source of minerals, 23, 24, 
146; a source of vitamines, 24, 
147, 148; consumption of, should 
be increased, 145; leaf, 146, 147; 
ways of grouping, 148; cooking 
of, 148, 149; summary of food 
value, cooking, and serving of, 
150, 151- 

Vein, the, 47. 



Vitamines, 24; in milk, 28; in plant 
leaves, 147; in fruits and green 
vegetables, 247. 

Waffles, raised, 132. 

Walnut cake, 137; catchup, 217; 
ice, 210. 

Walnuts, jellied, 204. 

Wastes, the elimination of, in the 
body, 235, 236. 

Water, composition of, 18; impor- 
tance of, 18, 229; pure, 18; plain 
boiled, for infants, 262. 

Water glass, 33. 

Water-soluble B, 24, 148. 

Wheat, 120. 

Wheat cream soup, 36. 

Whey, 272; lemon, 288. 

Whip, frozen orange, 209; prune 
(i), 199; prune (11), 199. 

White bean soup, flavoring for, 1 00. 

Whitebait, 84. 

Wiggle, shrimp, 77. 

Wintergreen extract, 217. 

Woody fiber, 20. 

Worcestershire sauce, 217. 

Yeast, 125. 



CAMBRIDGE . MASSACHUSETTS 
U . S . A 



This book is DUE on the last date stamped below 



MAR 2 5 199, 

li) 1Q90 ^ 



JUN 1^ 1929 



^n\j 9 



t93! 



K 



WAR 2 3 ^93^^ 
MAY 1 6 1939 



.A % 



;3fl 









\^^^'^ 



Form L-9-10jn-5,'28 



Sf MAR 5 . t 



fIRt 



(: 




OMVEESrrVolCMJTOKM* 

AT 
LOS AMGELES 



,'JCSOUTHEflN 



REGIONAL Ll^RAp, c 



,f.' '"AQlitv 



^ 000 503 857 





This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at |http : //books . google . com/ 



^ 0) 




Google 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS 
CONDENSED 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 




CHARLES DICKENS 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



One Hundred 
Best Novels Condensed 

Edited By 

EDWIN A. GROZIER 

Assisted by 
CHARLES E L WINGATE and CHARLES H. LINCOLN 

Fully Illustrated 

IN FOUR VOLUMES 
VOLUME ONE 




HARPER & BROTHERS, PUBLISHERS 

NEW YORK AND LONDON 

MCMXX 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



HhikVKKS atLEGrLlSoARY 
GIFT OF >■ 
CHARLES WILLIAN ILIOT 



/ 



Onb Hitndkbd Best Novels Comdbmsso ^^ 

.^ 

G)pyright 1919. 1920, by the Post Publishins Co. (The Boston Pott) ^ V 
Copyright in the United Kingdom, the Dominions, its Colonies ^'^' 
and dependencies, under the Copyright Act, by The ^ 
Post Publishing Co.. Boston Mass., U. S. A. \ 

All rights reserved. 



0-u 



\ 

Digitized by VjOOQIC 



TABLE OF CONTENTS' 
VOLUME I 



Pbbfacb 



DAVID OOPPERFIELD . . . Chablbs Dickens 3 
Condensation by Chables Francis Dobb Bslden, ; >^ 

Librarian of Boston Public Library, formerly Mas- ^ 

sachusetts State Librarian and Chairman of the 
Free Public Library Commission of Massachusetts 

THE HISTORY OF PENDENNIS. William Make- 

PEACE ThACEERAY 14 

Condensation by Richard Henry Dana, 
President of the National Civil Service Reform 
League, Author of Double Taxation in Massor 
chtLseUSj etc. 

CAPTAINS COURAGEOUS . . Rudyard Kipung 25 
Condensation by James B. CoNNoUiY, 
Author of The Trawler, The Undersea Man, and 
other famous sea .stories 

QUO VADIS Henryk Sienkiewicz 35 

Condensation by Prof. William Fenwick Harris, 
Formerly Professor of Greek at Harvard Univer- 
sity 

THE WAR OF THE WORLDS . . H. G. Wells 44 
Condensation by Alfred S. Clark, 
Literary Editor of The Boston Post 

THE MARBLE FAUN . . Nathaniel Hawthorne 54 
Condensation by Rev. Paul Revere Frothinqham, 
D. D., Pastor of Arlington Street Church, Boston 

1 Index of Titles and Authors will be found at the end of the Fourth 
Volume. 

VOL. I. — 1 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

PAOB 

THE PILGRIM'S PROGRESS . . John Buntan 66 
GondeDsation by Basil King, 
Author of The Street CdUed Straight, The Way 
Home, The City of Comradea, and other popular 
novelfl 

THE LAST DAYS OF POMPEII. Edward Bxjlwbe. 

Lytton 80 

Gondensation by Pbof. William Fenwick Habbis 

SIR NIGEL .... Sir Arthur Conan £)otlb 90 
Gondensation by Alice G. Grower 

THE HEART OF MIDLOTHIAN. Sir Walter Scorr 100 
Gondensation by Prof. Thurman L. Hood, 
Of the Department of English, Harvard Univer- 
sity 

THE GHOIR INVISIBLE . . James Lane Allen 110 
Gondensation by Sara Ware Bassett, 
Author of The Story of Lumber, The Training of 
Zenaa Henry, The Harbor Road, etc. 

LES MISfiRABLES Victor Hugo 120 

Gondensation by Nathan Haskell Dole, 
Author of The Pilgrim, etc., and widely known as 
a translator 

ROBINSON GRUSOE Daniel Detoe 130 

Gondensation by James B. Gonnollt 

-^HE ARABIAN NIGHTS. The Princess Shehera- 

ZADE ; 141 

Gondensation by Alfred S. Glark 

THE PRISONER OF ZENDA . . Anthony Hope 151 
Gondensation by Prof. Wiluam Fenwick Harris 

THE STRANGE GASE OF DR. JEKYLL AND MR. 

HYDE .... Robert Louis Stevenson 161 
Gondensation by Irving Bacheller, 
Author of Ehen Holden, Light in the Clearing, Uri 
and I, etc. 

THE PILOT James Fenimore Gooper 173 

Gondensation by Alfred S. Glark 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

•^THE SEA WOLF Jack London 184 

Condensation by CurroN B. Cabbebbt. 
Managing Editor of Th/^ Boston Post 

THE MASTER OF BALLANTRAE. Robbbt Louis 

Stevbnson 195 

Condensation by James B. Connoixt 

THE TWO ADMHIALS . Jambs Fbnimobb Coopeb 205 
Condensation by Ctbus Townbbnd Bradt, 
Author of Idand of RegeneroHon^ Grip of Honor, etc. 

FILE NO. 113 £milb Gabobiau 214 

Condensation by Isabel Andbbson (Mrs. Larz Ander- 
son), 
Author of Captain Oinger Stories, Zigsagging, etc. 

THE AWAKENING OF HELENA RICHIE. Maboa- 

BET Delano 224 

Condensation by Sara Wabb Bassett 

BEN HUR: A TALE OF THE CHRIST. Maj.-Gen. 

Lew Wallace 235 

Condensation by Prof. William Fenwick Habbis 

• HENRY ESMOND. WnjJAM Makepeace Thackebat 245 
Condensation by Annie D. Hubbard 

-/the TOILERS OF THE SEA . . Victob Hugo 255 
Condensation by James B. Connolly 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ILLUSTRATIONS 



William Maeepeacb Thackeray . . . Facing page 12 


RUDYABD ElPUNQ ' 


23 


Henbyk Sienkiebwicz ' 


33 


Herbebt Geobgb Wells ' 


42 


Nathaniel Hawihoenb ' 


52 


John Buntan ' 


' 64 


Bulwer-Lttton ' 


78 


Sir Arthttr Conan Doyle ' 


88 


Sir Walter Scott ' 


98 


James Lane Allen ' 


' 108 


Victor Marie Hugo ' 


' 118 


Daniel Defoe ' 


' 128 


S|TKTTT.nA9^Ani& ..,,,--... ' 


' 139 


Anthony Hope ' 


' 149 


Robert Louis Stevenson ' 


' 169 


James Fenimorb Cooper ' 


' 171 


Jack London ' 


' 182 


Robert Loins Stevenson ' 


' 193 


James Fenimorb Cooper ' 


' 203 


£mile Gaboriau * 


' 213 


Margaret Deland ' 


' 222 




' 233 


WiLLLAM Makepeace Thackeray . . . ' 


' 243 


Victor Marie Hugo ' 


' 253 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PREFACE 

The object of the publication of One 
Hundred Best Novels Condensed is twofold: 
first, to enable the busy and casual reader 
to become acquainted with the masterpieces 
of fiction with the minimum of time and 
exertion; second, through an appetizing 
condensation, to induce readers to seek the 
great originals. 

There has been much discussion, and 
some dissension, as to the make-up of the 
list of novels. On the first fifty titles of 
"one hundred best novels," there may be 
consensus of opinion; but beyond that 
point, individual tastes and preferences vary 
widely. 

It should be stated that in the list adopted 
preponderance has been given to novels 
written in English, and some consideration 
to American literature. It has also been 
deemed advisable to have the selections 
representative of the various schools of fic- 
tion. An effort has been made to avoid 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PREFACE 

morbid; abnormal; and otherwise objection- 
able works of imagination, and to give pref- 
erence to healthy, natural, inspiring fiction. 

It is desired to acknowledge the cordial 
co-operation of most book-publishers in 
facilitating the production of this work; 
due credit is given in connection with each 
condensation. Many enthusiastic contribu- 
tors have encouraged the editor. Especially 
to Prof. William Fenwick Harris and Prof. 
Charles T. Copeland, both of Cambridge, 
Massachusetts, are acknowledgments due 
for their helpful suggestions. 

This material was originally pubhshed in 
serial form in The Boston Post, where it 
attracted so much favorable comment that 
it has since been published in nearly one hun- 
dred daily newspapers in the United States 
and Canada. There has been a wide-spread 
request for the publication in book form. 

It is hoped that the work may prove 
attractive to the lovers of good fiction; 
that it may serve a useful purpose in school 
and college and become a welcome and 
valuable addition to libraries generally. 

Edwin A. Grozier. 

Cambridge^ Massachusetts, 
January 1, 1920. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS 
CONDENSED 



Digitized by VjOOQiC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



CHARLES DICKENS 

f^HARLES JOHN HUFFAM DICKENS 
^ was ham February 7, 1812, at Partseay Eng- 
land, where his father was a derk in the Navy Pay 
ojBke. He died at GadahiU Placej in Kent, on 
June 9, 1870. 

His dreams of writing came to him early when 
as a hoy he read breathlessly thehaitered novels in 
his father's library. He became a reporter on the 
London newspapers, and wrote (1886) '^Sketches 
by BoZy' wherein are, in miniature, aJl the abound- 
ing virtues of his novels. 

The *' Pickwick Papers^^ (1837) were a great 
success. Their inimitable rollicking humor capti- 
vated the English reading world. His first ex- 
tended novel was '^Oliver Twist'' (1888), followed 
by ''Nicholas Nickleby'' (1888-89), ''Old Curiosity 
Shop'' and "Bamaby Rudge" (ISJiO-^l). He 
produced some sixteen major novels, the last, " The 
Mystery of Edwin Drood'' (1870), heing left unr 
finished. "Damd Copperfield" (1849-60), held 
by many to he his mcaterpiece, and by not a few 
to he the greatest story ever written, is supposed 
to he semirautobiographical. Many of his novels 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



2 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

were pvblished in instalments, and never before 
or since has any literary publication excited sitch 
a furore 

After his initial siuxesseSy Dickens^s life was a 
triumphal procession, saddened only by domestic 
unhappiness. He visited America, where his works 
were even more popular than in England, in 184S 
and 1867-68. 

He wrote in his wUl his own best epitaph, ''/ 
rest my claims to the remembrance of my country 
on my published worksJ* He might well have sub- 
stituied ^^the worW* for *'my country.** 

Perhaps the quality that distinguishes his novels 
among all osiers is their abounding humor. A 
poet has written: 

Make way, Shaksperel TMa ia he 

Who haih ia'en the throne of mirth from theet 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



DAVID COPPERFIELD 

By CHARLES DICKENS 

Condensation by 
CHARLES F. D. BELDEN 

"/^F all my books," writes Dickens, "I 
^^ like this the best. It will be easily 
believed that I am a fond parent to every 
child of my fancy, and that no one can ever 
love that family as dearly as I love them; 
but, like many fond parents, I Have in my 
hearts of hearts a favorite child, and his 
name is David Copperfield.^^ 

The world, in the main, agrees with 
the opinion of the great, kindly delineator 
of humanity, for David Copperfield and 
Pickwick Papers hold first and second 
choice with most lovers of this English 
author of the middle of the nineteenth cen- 
tury. The reason is not hard to discover. 
The memory of the sad childhood of the 
writer forms the basis of the novel and pro- 
vides the personal flavor. It is in many 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



4 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

respects his ablest and clearest book. The 
narrative, moreover, moves from beginning 
to end in full swing with mingled pathos 
and humor. The spirit throughout is kindly, 
sympathetic, and, above all, human. Mr. 
G. K. Chesterton, writing of David Copper- 
field and its author, says: ''He has created 
creatures who cling to us and tyrannize over 
us, creatures whom we would not forget if 
we could, creatures whom we could not for- 
get if we would, creatures who are more 
actual than the man who made them." 

The novel begins with the birth of its 
hero, David Copperfield, six months after 
the death of his father. An eccentric great* 
aunt, Miss Betsy Trotwood, is present in the 
house, but departs quite as suddenly as she 
arrived when she learns that the child is a 
boy and cannot bear her name. David's 
mother is quite alone in the world with the 
exception of plain Peggotty, her devoted 
serving- woman; Peggotty, with no shape at 
all, and so very plump that when any little 
exertion is made after she is dressed, some 
of the buttons on the back of her gown fly off. 

Being, however, youthful and pretty, Clara 
Copperfield soon marries the stem Mr. Murd- 
stone, who proves to be not only stem, but 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



DAVID COPPERFIELD 5 

hard and cruel. On the occasion of his 
mother's marriage David is sent with Peg- 
gotty to visit her brother at Yarmouth, 
where he, with his niece, little Emily, and 
nephew Ham, occupy a superannuated old 
boat now converted into a most delightfully 
cozy home. Little Emily, with her winning 
ways, grows very dear to David, as do the 
honest fisherfolk with whom she lives. 

Retiuning home, David at once becomes 
an object of detestation to his stepfather, 
and in consequence is packed off to school. 
Here his misery continues under a master, 
or rather bully, Creakle, whose chief zest 
in life consists in the infliction of pain on 
some hapless victim. The one bit of bright- 
ness in school life is his attachment for James 
Steerforth, a handsome, debonair, dashing 
lad, with the faculty of making every one 
his friend. But school-days are brought to 
a sudden halt by the death of David's 
mother, crushed by her husband's ceaseless 
tyranny. Peggotty is dismissed and Barkis, 
the stage-driver whose courtship has con- 
sisted in the singular message, sent through 
David, of ^* Barkis is wiUin'," finally succeeds 
in making Peggotty willing also. 

After months of utter neglect David is 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



6 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

sent to London, where he becomes; at ten 
years of age, a little laboring hind in a 
dilapidated old warehouse, in the service of 
Murdstone & Grimby, wine merchants. Half 
starved, wearied by long hours of labor amid 
repulsive companions, including Mick Walker 
and Meally Potatoes, David's life is a con- 
tinued torture. He lodges with a Mr. and 
Mrs. Wilkins Micawber and their numerous 
progeny. Mr. Micawber, always in pecuni- 
ary difficulties and always expecting some- 
thing to ^Hum up'' and always in possession 
of a fine flow of oratory, is alternately buoyed 
up by a conviction that Fortune is at last 
about to smile upon him, and reduced to 
the depths of despair by her sudden and 
unaccountable withdrawal. David comes to 
have a genuine liking for the couple, so 
much so that when the Micawbers, having 
failed to meet certain financial obligations, 
are obliged to move to prison, and David to 
seek new quarters, he feels such a sense of 
loneliness that he determines to run away 
to his aunt, Betsey Trotwood at Dover, an 
aunt whom he has never seen, but of whom 
he remembers to have heard. 

The aunt adopts him and sends him to 
school at Canterbury, where he boards with 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



DAVID COPPERFIELD 7 

liis aunt's lawyer and man of affairs, a Mr. 
Wickfield, and his daughter Agnes, whose 
serene goodness becomes a constant inspira- 
tion to David. Here also he comes in con- 
tact with Mr. Wickfield's clerk, Uriah Heep, 
^'a very 'umble person," an individual with 
a cadaverous face and a head covered with 
carroty stubble, red eyes which have a 
curiously unshaded appearance and which 
seem to David to be ceaselessly watchful. 
His groveling humility and clammy hand- 
grasp fill David with uncontrollable loathing 
and distrust. 

Having graduated with honors,^ David 
decides to become a proctor and enters the 
office of Spenlow & Jorkins. He at once 
falls head over heels in love with Mr. Spen- 
low's distractingly pretty daughter, Dora, 
who returns his affection. On hearing that 
Pe^otty's husband is dying, David makes 
a hurried visit to Yarmouth to comfort his 
old nurse. While there, Emily, within a 
few days of becoming Ham's bride, little 
Emily, the precious treasure of her old 
uncle's heart, disappears and with her Steer- 
forth. Carried away by his gallantry and 
persuaded that he will make her ^^a lady," 
Emily is none the less distracted by a sense 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



S ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

of terrible humiliation and of degradation, 
for which she implores her micle's forgive- 
ness. David, overcome by the thought 
that it was he who first brought Steerforth 
to Yarmouth, returns to London, to find 
that his aunt has lost the greater part of her 
fortune. This makes it necessary for David 
to add to their income by using all his spare 
time in clerical and literary work. 

Dora continues uppermost in his thoughts, 
although Mr. Spenlow opposes the match. 
His sudden death leaves the timid, trustful, 
artless Dora, to the surprise of all, nearly 
penniless. David^s income, though slender, 
permits of their marriage. 

With all his love for his child wife, as she 
calls herself, he finds that her gay irresponsi- 
bility results in anything but a comfortable 
home. After vainly trying to develop her 
childish natiu'e he imcomplainingly makes 
the best of it and continues to admire her 
bewitching ways. Meanwhile Uriah Heep 
has managed by deceit to worm his way into 
partnership with Mr. Wickfield, after which 
he proceeds to gain full control of the busi- 
ness. Considering Mr. Micawber likely to 
be a useful tool, Uriah hires him in the 
capacity of clerk, at such a meager salary 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



DAVID COPPBRFIELD 9 

that Mr. Micawber is obliged to borrow 
small sums of money from Heep, who takes 
advantage of this indebtedness to force Mr. 
Micawber to assist him in his dishonest 
practices. 

At the end of a year Mr. Micawber 
requests an interview with David and his 
aunt at Canterbury. They find him filled 
with righteous contempt for Uriah Heep, 
the hypocritical plotter, and prepared to 
make a sweeping exposure, which he fortj^* 
with proceeds to do in his loftiest style 
which results in the recovery of Betsey Trot- 
wood's money, full restitution to Mr. Wick- 
field, and, in Mr. Micawber's own words, 
the final pulverization of Heep. " Blossom,'' 
as David delights to call Dora, proves as 
frail as the name, and in spite of his ten- 
derest care she droops and at length is 
gone. 

As at other times of trial, it is the quick 
sympathy of Agnes Wickfield that softens 
the pain, and through her influence David 
plans to go abroad for a time. Meanwhile 
out of gratitude to Mr. Micawber for his 
service in the recovery of her money, Betsey 
Trotwood offers to help the Micawbers to 
make a new start in Australia. The family 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



10 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

joyfully accept the proposition and prepare 
to sail on the same ship with Emily and her 
devoted uncle^ to whom she has at last 
returned and who is accompanying her to 
the distant colony to begin life anew. Be- 
fore bidding these good friends farewell, 
David visits Yarmouth once more and wit- 
nesses the last scene of Emily's tragedy. A 
raging tempest beats a ship to pieces just 
off the coast. One living person is seen 
still clinging to the mast, and the irony of 
fate sends Ham to his death in his ef- 
forts to rescue that creature, whose body 
when washed ashore proves to be that of 
Steerforth. 

After three years' absence abroad, David 
returns to England, and gradually comes to 
realize that Agnes Wickfield has always 
been his guiding-star and held sway in his 
heart. Betsy Trotwood, fearing that David 
may still be blind with regard to the feeling 
of Agnes toward him, guilelessly mentions 
that she has reason to believe that Agnes 
is to be married. Whereupon David is 
determined, at whatever cost to his own 
feelings, to tell Agnes of his joy in any 
happiness that may come to her. He soon 
discovers that she has never cared for any 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



DAVID COPPERFIELD 11 

other than himself and that her future 
happiness will be his as well. 

As the years pass and a group of children 
is added to their home David continues to 
find Agnes his inspiration as of old. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THACKERAY 

rf/^ILLIAM MAKEPEACE THACKERAY, 
^^ son of a civil servant in India, was horn 
July 18y 1811y in Calcutta. He died December 
^4} 1863, in London, where most of his life was 
spent. From 1840 on, his wife was insane, so 
there lived in his heart, as in that of the other great 
humorist of his time, Dickens, constant domestic 
sorrow. 

Thackeray began in schooUdays rather to absorb 
life than to attain scJiolarship. He delighted even 
then to reproduce it in comic verse and caricature. 
At Cambridge, in Weimar, in Paris art-schools 
and London law-school, he went gaily on his way 
indolent in study, but eager in friendship, arderd 
in life. At twenty-one he owned and managed 
a London newspaper; ai twenty-five he was penni- 
less, after scattering a comfortable fortune. Bvi 
he had bought experience invaluable to (he young 
journalist, priceless to the novelist. 

Thackeray^s astonishing versatility was early 
realized. He aspired to illustrate Dickens^ s novels; 
he wrote travel sketches, stories, ballads, and 
burUsqtLCs. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 




WILLIAM MAKEPEACE THAC3KEEAY 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THACKERAY 13 

^^ Barry Lyndon,^^ his first notable navels was 
the history of a rascal; hut in the most fascinaiing 
of feminine rascals, Becky Sharp, Thackeray first 
briUianUy showed himself master in ihe creation 
Qf living character Q^ Vanity Fair,^^ 1846-48). 
^* Pendennis^^ (1849-50) was, like Dickens's 
^^Datrid Copperfield,*^ in essence autobiographical. 
The need of money drove Thackeray reluctantly 
to the lecture-field. His course on Eighteenth 
Century Humorists, popular in England and 
America {1851), prepared the ground for "^3^ 
mond^^ {1852), his unsurpassed historical novel. 
''The Newcomes'' {1864), ''The Virginians'' 
{1869), and (he unfinished ''Denis Duval,'' com- 
plete the list of his best novels. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE HISTORY OF PENDENNIS 

By WILLIAM MAKEPEACE THACKERAY 

Condensation by 
RICHARD HENRY DANA 

/^NE fine morning in the full London sea- 
^-^ son, Major Arthur Pendennis (retired 
on half pay) came to breakfast at his accus- 
tomed comer in his Pall Mali Club. His 
were the best blacked boots in London. 
His buflf waistcoat, checked cravat, spotless 
linen, white gloves, his whiskers, his very 
cane, were perfect of their kind. 

He seemed thirty years old, until you saw 
the factitious nature of his rich brown hair 
and the crow's-feet around the eyes of his 
handsome face with its Wellington nose. 
His long white cuffs showed the gold sleeve 
buttons given him by His Royal Highness, 
the Duke of York. 

Through his gold double eye-glasses, he 
reads his letters, one an invitation from the 
Marquis of Steyne, one from the Bishop of 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PENDENNIS 15 

Ealing and Mrs. Trail, another from an 
earl, and so on, and last of all, two others, 
one from his widowed sister-in-law, and the 
other from her only child, Arthur Pendennis, 
Jr. The first begs him to "come immedi- 
ately/^ to Fair Oaks, Clavering, St. Mary's, 
"to entreat, nay command" the "wretched 
boy" to pve up his engagement to marry 
Miss Costigan, an actress twelve years the 
senior of this lad of eighteen. The second 
from this same lad beseeching his uncle to 
remove his mother's objections to his pro- 
posed union with his "dear Emily," a 
descendant of the old Irish Royalty, the 
most beautiful woman in the world. "A 
love like mine, sir," writes young Pen, "I 
feel is contracted once and forever — ^I shall 
die without ever knowing another passion." 

The major, inwardly in a rage, ruefully 
sends refusals to the marquis, the earl, the 
bishop, and other entertainers, and takes a 
sleepless and tiring trip in the tight, smelly 
night mail-coach for Clavering. 

On arrival Major Pendennis is most affable 
to Pen and his mother. He does not "en- 
treat" or "command" his nephew, but wins 
the boy's confidence and talks familiarly 
of his own noble friends and the brilliant 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



16 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

career he has m mmd for Pen. The major 
then ''faces the enemy," Captain Costigan, 
the half-tipsy, imaginative old Irish soldier, 
the father and protector of "Emily." To 
him and his beautiful, honest, but duU daugh- 
ter the major is equally suave. Beautiful 
she is, with broad brow, large, melting eyes, 
black wavy hair, white complexion, rosy 
cheeks, and the arms of a "Venus." Pen 
had come to see and know her through Foker, 
a school friend, a lad homely and kindly, 
dull at his books, but bright in evcry-day 
matters, whose father, the great brewer, 
furnished hhn money, and Lady Agnes, his 
mother, social position. Verses Pen had 
been writing to the Greek goddesses he now 
dedicates to his new divinity. 

Major Pendennis, as his next move, lets 
slip, in the presence of the Costigans, the 
fact that Pen has no means beyond what 
his mother allows him out of her slender 
income. Costigan is then indignant that 
Pen "should have had the face to offer him- 
self to his dear beguiled daughter." Pen 
cannot believe his adored Emily has calmly 
thrown him over, until the Costigans openly 
"cut" him in the street. He almost dies, 
or believes he is dying of despised love, with 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PENDENNIS 17 

all the symptoms of sleepless nights and 
feverish days, and is scarcely consoled by 
his mother and little cousin Laura. 

Laura is five years younger than Pen, 
his second cousin on the side of his mother, 
who adopted her on the death of her parents, 
perhaps because of a romance of early 
unmarried days with Laura^s father. 

Miss Costigan secures an engagement at a 
London theater through Major Pendennis's 
influence. The magnetic attraction being 
thus removed. Pen goes to "Oxbridge." 
Then through Foker and with the major^s 
encouragement Pen makes rich and aristo- 
cratic friends and begins a brilliant career 
at the Debating Union, at dinners and late 
suppers, with his wit, eloquence, poems, and 
commanding self-confidence. Wild without 
being vulgar, extravagant beyond his means 
and neglecting his studies, he becomes deeply 
in debt and is "plucked'^ in his degree 
examination, though many a fellow he has 
despised for dullness or crushed in debate 
passes with honors. 

Unselfish, he would leave the gayest party 
to go and sit with a sick friend, and yet, 
selfish, he forces his mother to pinch herself 
to keep him in college and he accepts Laura's 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



18 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

savings to pay his debts. He flees "Ox- 
bridge'' in disgrace, though later he tries 
again and passes his "exams" with' fair 
credit. 

Coming home from college. Pen, now a 
yowig man of good figure, medium height, 
blue eyes, and aubmn whiskers, finds Laura 
grown from the simple little girl into a tall, 
slim, handsome young lady with large gray 
eyes, long black lashes, pale face with rose 
tinge in her cheeks which flushes easily into 
a deep blush. 

Now comes on the scene Sir Francis 
Clavering, Bart., who opens Clavering Park, 
which has long been closed. The papers a 
few years before announced his marriage 
with the rich widow of the late J. Amory, 
Esquire, from India. He brings Lady Clav- 
ering, her daughter Miss Blanche Amory, 
a young lady, and his son and heir, little 
Frank Clavering. Blanche has fair hair, 
dark eyebrows, long black lashes veiling 
brown eyes, slim figure, small feet, and 
constant smiles showing sweet pearly teeth 
and deep dimples. Sir Francis himself is a 
weak creature, a gambler, fond of low com- 
pany, and rapidly wasting his wife's property 
with constant demands on her generosity. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PENDENNIS 19 

Lady Clavering, a good; kind soul, illiterate 
and murdering the King's English^ is hardly 
more fortunate in her second marriage than 
in her first with the sailor and convict 
Amory. 

Shadowing the Claverings is a mysterious 
Colonel Altamonty with a strange influence 
over Sir Francis and power to get money 
from him; despite the baronet's lack of 
ready cash. 

Pen becomes enamoured of Blanche^ writes 
her love poems^ and meanwhile she leads 
him on; only to drop him again for any one 
with better prospects. When thus dropped, 
Pen offers himself to Laura, but in a half- 
hearted way. Laura replies, "When next 
you offer yourself, do not say as you have 
done to me, 'I have no heart — ^I do not love 
you; but I am ready to marry you because 
my mother wishes for the match.''' After 
Laura's refusal. Pen tires of the country 
and goes to London to study law. He 
settles in chambers at the Lamb Court 
Temple and makes a friend of and rooms 
with George Warrington, an older graduate 
of "Oxbridge." In London Pen leads a 
life not of study, but of joviality, though 
not of vice. He is too lofty to stoop to 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



20 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

vulgar intrigue. When reduced to his last 
few pounds, Pen, by Warrington's help, 
gets a poem accepted in a magazine, is given 
books to review, becomes a contributor to 
the new Pall Mall Gazettey writes the popular 
novel Walter Lorraine and becomes well 
off and well known. His uncle is proud of 
him, gets him invitations to dine in high 
society, and introduces him, among other 
celebrities, to the great Duke of Wellington. 

One nijght, the mysterious Colonel Alta- 
mont, half drunk, forces his way into the 
Clavering dining-room in London and Major 
Pendennis recognizes him a^ an Indian 
acquaintance. Soon after this, he urges 
Pen to marry for money, saying, *'It is as 
easy to get a rich wife as a poor one," and 
encourages him to court Miss Blanche 
Amory. Somehow the Major persuades Sir 
Francis to give up his seat in Parliament 
in favor of Pen and to arrange for a large 
dowry for Miss Blanche. Finally, in lieu of 
any better prospect, she accepts Pen. 

The secret of Colonel Altamont's injfluence 
over Sir Francis becomes public property 
and reaches Pen's ears, for Altamont is 
none other than Amory, the husband of ' 
Lady Clavering. He was reported to have 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PENDENNIS 21 

died; but in reality is alive. This makes 
the Clavering marriage invalid and Miss 
Amory heir to the fortune instead of young 
Frank. Pen then refuses to benefit by the 
fortune or to take the seat in Parliament^ 
and writes Blanche he is still willing to marry 
her, though he admits he does not love her 
deeply. Later, when he calls, he finds his 
old schoolmate, Foker, rich through his 
father's death, now installed in Miss 
Blanche's affections. Still, the fair Blanche 
confidentially confesses to Pen that she 
would prefer him if he could lay aside his 
''absurd scruples." This he refuses to do, 
so the Foker and Amory wedding is arranged. 
Then Pen, freed from this mercenary 
alliance, finds his heart all the while was 
reaUy devoted to Laura, so he proposes to 
her in earnest and this time is accepted. 
Foker in turn finds by accident the secret of 
Amory's survival, and, what is worse, that 
Blanche knew and yet concealed it from 
him. For this lack of confidence he leaves 
the fickle Blanche, so that there is only one 
wedding at Clavering and that not at the 
baronet's hall. It turns out that Altamont, 
alias Amory, already had a wife living when 
he went through the form of marriage with 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



22 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

the future Lady Clavering; so^ after all; Sir 
Francis and die are legally husband and 
wife. 

Sir Francis reforms. Miss Blanche goes 
abroad and marries in Paris a count with 
doubtful title. Pen is elected to Parliament 
on his own merits, the new railroad buys 
some of Pen's lands and greatly increases 
the value of the rest, so he is well off and 
most happy with the adorable, high-minded, 
and devoted Laura. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 




RUDYARD KIPLING 



Digitized by VjOOQLC 



RUDYARD KIPLING 

f^UDYARD KIPLING was horn December 
^\^ SO, 1865, in Bombay, where his father, John 
Lockwood Kipling, artist and author, was pro* 
fessor in the British School of Art. He was edu- 
cated at the United Services College, Westward Bo, 
North Devon, scene of the lurid Stalky novel. 

At seventeen he was in India once more, a 
journalist. Before he was twenty-fowr [he had 
completed ^^ Plain Tales from the Hills'* and six 
more of his best stories, which established his fame 
throughout the world. In the tales of native life 
and adventure *^ beyond tiie paW India was re- 
vealed anew urUh a hriJliance, color, and passion un- 
surpassed; Mulvaney and his pals, the exuberant 
*' Soldiers Three,'* captivated men from sea to sea. 

Within the next ten years Kipling traveled 
round the world, married, lived in America, Eng- 
land, and South Africa, and finally became so imr 
hued vriOi imperialism as almost to destroy his art 

His *' Barrack Room Ballads'* and ^^ Seven 
Seas'* revealed him as an inspiriting poet who 
^* splashed at a ten-league canvas with htishes of 
comet's hair." 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



24 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

Of his three novelSy " The Light that Failed^' is a 
tale of Suez; " Captains Courageous,'^ of Gloucester 
fishermen; and ^^Kim'' breaihes again the subtle 
and mysterious fascination of India. 

With the ^'Jungle Books'^ Kipling enthralled 
a new audience. These, and the incomparable 
^^Just So Stories,'^ written to his son, who was 
MUed in tiie war, enshrined him in (he hearts 
of children the world over. 

He was awarded the Nohel prize for literature 
in 1907. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



CAPTAINS COURAGEOUS 

By RUDYARD KIPLING 

Condensation by 
JAMES B. CONNOLLY 

LJARVEY CHEYNE'S father was im- 
^ ^ mersed in amassing more money^ his 
mother was busy with her nerves, and so 
we have Harvey, at fifteen years, the insuf- 
ferable type that most grown males want to 
heave a brick at on sight. 

He was a passenger on this ocean liner, 
and she was crossing the Grand Banks in a 
fog. He came into the smoking-room, 
saying: "You can hear the fish-boats 
squawking all around us. Wouldn't it be 
great if we ran one down!'' 

He asked for a cigarette. Somebody with 
a diabolical sense of humor passed him a 
thick, oily cigar. Harvey lit it up and 
went on deck. He began to feel queer, 
but he had bragged of never being seasick; 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



26 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

80 now he went aft to the turtle-deck^ and 
he was still there, wrestling with the cigar 
and not caring much what happened, when 
a long gray sea swung out of the fog and 
took him overboard. 

Harvey was next aware of being on a pile 
of fish with a broad-backed man in a blue 
jersey, who said: "You in dory with me. 
Manuel my name.'* 

Later he was hoisted aboard of a schooner 
and lowered into her heaving fo'c's'le, where 
men in oilskins gave him a hot drink and 
put him to sleep in a bunk. When he awoke, 
a . boy whose name was Dan asked him 
smilingly if he was feeling better. The 
schooner was the TFeVe Here of Gloucester, 
and the boy's father, Disko Troop, was her 
skipper. 

Harvey went up on deck to see Disko, 
and demanded that he be taken back to 
New York, where, as he told Disko con- 
descendingly, his father would pay them 
very well for their trouble; he added many 
other items to what his father could and 
would do. Disko, as it happened, was an 
old-fashioned type of Bank fisherman, wise 
in the ways of fish, but knowing little of the 
great world. He decided that this boy with 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



CAPTAINS COURAGEOUS 27 

his talk of his father's immense wealth must 
be crazy; with an idea of restoring the poor 
boy to sanity, he offered him the berth of 
second boy on the TFeVe Here at ten dollars 
and fifty cents per month. 

Harvey had a fit of sullenness, but his 
sullenness worried nobody; he went to work. 
The dories were returning to the vessel 
with their catches of fish; so for the first 
work of his life Harvey was set to helping 
Dan hoist in the dories, to swabbing the 
gurry from their insides, and then to nesting 
them on the deck. By the time he had 
finished doing that and eating his supper 
it was nighttime, and Manuel, Penn, Long 
Jack, Old Salters, Tom Piatt— all hands 
were standing by to dress fish. 

Manuel and Penn stood deep among the 
fish, flourishing sharp knives. ^^ Hi ! " shouted 
Manuel, with one finger under the gill of a 
cod, the other in an eye. The blade glim- 
mered, there was a soimd of tearing, the 
fish, slit from throat to tail, dropped at 
Long Jack's feet. "Hi!" cried Long Jack, 
and, with a scoop of a mittened hand, 
dropped the cod's liver into a basket; an- 
other wrench and scoop sent head and offal 
flying. The gutted fish slid across to Old 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



28 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

SaJters, who snorted fiercely, ripped out 
the backbone, and splashed the headless, 
gutless fish into a tub of water. 

Harvey pitched the washed fish down 
into the hold, whence came tramplings 
and rumblings as Tom Piatt and Disko 
moved among the salt-bins. The rasping 
sound of rough salt rubbed on rough flesh 
from below made a steady imdertone to the 
click-nick of the knives in the pens, the 
wrench and schloop of torn heads, the 
flap of ripped-open fish falling into the tub 
on deck. 

At the end of an hour Harvey wanted 
terribly to rest, but also for the first time 
in his life he was one of a working gang of 
men; and so, beginning to take pride in 
the thought, he held on grimly. Not till 
the last fish was stowed below did a man 
rest. But when that moment came! Disko 
and Old Salters rolled toward their cabin 
bunks, Manuel and Long Jack went forward. 
Tom Piatt waited only long enough to slide 
home the hatch, Penn to empty a basket 
of fish livers into a big cask. 

All hands were below and asleep, except 
the two boys; they had to stand watch; 
so by and by the moon looked down on one 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



CAPTAINS COURAGEOUS 29 

slim boy in knickerbockers, which was 
Harvey, staggering around the cluttered 
deck; while behind him, waving a knotted 
rope, walked another boy, which was Dan, 
yawning and nodding between taps he 
dealt the first boy to keep him awake. 

The WeWe Here was on a salt-fishing trip, 
which meant four months away from home; 
so there was time for Harvey to learn many 
strange new things if he cared to. After a 
time, as the pride in honest work well done 
began to grip him, he cared. He learned 
to fish from a dory; to make his way in 
safety aroimd a heaving vessel's deck; to 
know what each rope and sail aboard a vessel 
was for. Disko allowed him, when the wind 
was light, to steer the vessel from one berth 
to another, and wonderful was Harvey's 
sense of power when he first felt the vessel 
answer to his touch of the wheel. Almost 
did he come to understand, as a fisherman 
imderstands, the never-absent dangers of 
the Banks — ^the eternal fogs, the tides, the 
gales, the wicked seas; and learned, too, 
fishermen's opinion of the oflScers of the great 
steamers who, after cutting a vessel down, 
raise high hands to heaven and swear 
with imanimity that the careless fisherman 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



30 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

had never — ^absolutely never — shown so 
much as a single light. 

He saw one day a foul, draggled, unkempt 
vessel heaving up past the WeWe HerCy for 
all the world like a blowsy, frowsy, bad old 
woman sneering at a decent girl — saw her 
sail off into a patch of watery sunshine and — 
go imder — ^tiJdng all hands with her! He 
saw, while his hair stood on end, a whiteness 
moving in the whiteness of the fog with a 
breath like the breath of a grave; and then 
he heard a roaring, plunging, and spouting; 
that was his first iceberg. He saw the surf 
break over Virgin Rocks; and the fish strike 
in so thick on a shoal that scores of dories 
stood riding gunwale to gunwale while their 
crews battled for the catch. He saw a gale 
break so sudden and fierce that everywhere 
on the sea were men in dories cutting riding- 
lines and racing for their vessels, but some 
never making their vessels. 

So he passed four busy, wonderful months, 
growing in body, mind, and soul with every 
hour that passed; and then came the great 
day when they left the Banks for home. 
Toil, hardship, and danger were now mostly 
behind them; there was left little to do 
but stand watch and study the folding 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



CAPTAINS COURAGEOUS 31 

and packing away of the morning mists, 
the hurry of winds across the open spaces, 
the glare and blaze of the high sun; to 
harken to the grinding of the booms against 
the masts, the creaking of the sheets against 
the bitts, the sail filling to the roaring winds. 

Now about the time the WeWe Here^ a 
himdred quintals of fish in her hold, was 
laying her course for Gloucester, Harvey^s 
father was beginning to wonder in his 
mahogany offices in Los Angeles if it wasn't 
a better game to drop the ceaseless struggle 
for more power and wealth. What was the 
use of it all — ^with no son to hand it to? 
He was still wondering when one day an 
excited secretary brought him a telegram. 

It was from Harvey, safe in Gloucester. 
Mr. Cheyne laid his face down on his desk, 
breathed heavily for a while; and then, heav- 
ing orders right and left, started that run 
of which railroad men talked for many a 
day. Three days and a half it was from 
coast to coast, with railroad specialists 
along the way dividing huge bonuses; for 
it was the great Harvey Cheyne who was 
racing east to see his rescued boy, and the 
boy's mother was with him. 

Not without fear did he meet that boy. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



32 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

He had a memory of a pasty-faced, bad- 
mamiered lad. What he met was a boy with 
toughened figure and a keen, clear eye, a 
boy who was inordinately proud that a 
Gloucester skipper said he had well earned 
his ten dollars and fifty cents and his keep a 
month. On the end of an ancient wharf 
Harvey Cheyne and his boy had such a 
talk as they never could have had four 
months before. When it was over they 
knew each other better. 

Railroads, lumber, mines — such things 
did not interest young Harvey. What his 
heart yearned for was to some day manage 
his father's newly purchased sailing-ships on 
the Pacific coast. The ships he got when he 
was ripe for them; and for Dan, son of Disko 
Troop — seeing that he could not offer money 
— ^he got a berth as mate of one of them, 
with the promise that some day he would go 
master of the best he could build. 

"Great ships these of my father's? Oh 
yes," says Harvey. " But back in Gloucester 
are the able little vessels. The WeWe Here, 
she's one. I owe a heap to her — ^to her and 
her crew." 

Printed by permission of « and arrangement with. Century 
Company, authorized publishers. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 




HENRYK SIENKIEWICZ 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



SIENKIEWICZ 

TJTENRYK SIENKIEWICZ, so great a name 
-^ -* in Poland that he has been coupled with 
Copernicus and Kosduszko as the three Poles to 
whom Americans are most indebted, was bom in 
Opreya in Russian Poland in 1846. He studied 
philosophy at Warsaw University, and soon after- 
ward, in company with Helen Modjeska and other 
radical Poles, established a socialistic community 
in California. It was somewhat like the earlier 
Brook Farm experiment made by Hawthorne and 
his friends. It was no more successful and Sien- 
hiewicz returned to Poland, where he wrote a series 
of articles for a Warsaw newspaper about his 
American experiences. 

Then he turned to novelumting. He wrote briUr 
iantly and rapidly, taming with the uimost ease 
from realistic pictures of contemporary life to 
stories of romance and to historical novels. *' Chilr 
dren of the Soil,'^ which he called his best book, is 
a simple story of Polish life which won more favor 
with his own countrymen than it did abroad. 

In the 1880^ s he completed his tremendous trilogy, 
''With Fire and Sward,'' ''The Deluge,'' and 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



34 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

^'Pan MichaeV^ There was an epic quality aboiU 
these historical novels that made many people in 
many lands hail him as a new Scott or a new 
Dumas. 

His intematiorud reputaiion, however, came 
with **Quo VadiSf^^ his masterpiece of ancient 
Roman life. It was quickly translated into Eng- 
lish and into nearly every European tongue. Then 
it passed to the stage, not only in America and 
England, but also in France and Germany. Since 
that success Sienhiewicz had traveled widely, 
visiting England, France, Italy, Spain, Greece, 
Africa, and the Far East. He received the Nobel 
prize for literature in 1905. From the outbreak 
of the war to his death in November, 1916, he 
devoted himself to the reli^ of Polish war victims. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



QUO VADIS 

By HENRY SIENKIEWICZ 

Condensation by 
PROF. WILLIAM FENWICK HARRIS 

" ^ T DO not know to a certainty her name 
* even — Lygia or Callina? They call 
her Lygia in the house^ for she comes of the 
Lygian nation; but she has her own bar- 
barian name, Callina. It is a wonderful 
house — ^that of those Plautiuses. There are 
many people in it; but it is as quiet there as 
in the groves of Subiacum. For a number 
of days I did not know that a divinity dwelt 
in the house. Once about daybreak I saw 
her bathing in the garden foimtain; and I 
swear to thee by that foam from which 
Aphrodite rose, that the rays of the dawn 
passed right through her body. I thought 
that when the sun rose she would vanish 
before me in the light; as the twilight of 
morning does. Since then I have seen her 
twice; and since then, too, I know not what 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



36 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

rest is, I know not what other desires are, I 
have no wish to know what the city can 
give me. I want not women, nor gold, nor 
Corinthian bronze, nor amber, nor pearls, 
nor wine, nor feasts; I want only Lygia/" 

Thus did Vinicius, young Roman patrician 
of the time of Nero, announce his love for 
Lygia, daughter of a king, beautiful hostage 
from her nation, forgotten in the turmoil 
of the world-empire and brought up as a 
Roman girl. 

Vinicius was speaking to his uncle Petro- 
nius, known to his own time as to us as 
Arbiter Elegantiarum, trained in all the art 
and beauty of Greece, wise, witty, and 
learned, gaily staking his life in his daily 
battle of wits with Tigellinus, who provided 
for the grosser desires of the tyrant Nero as 
Petronius did for his finer and more artistic 
ones. 

It was a time when the conjQicting tides 
of a pagan age sadly degenerate from the 
sturdy days of pristine. Roman virtues 
mingled with those of a new era in the world 
only recently heralded from Judea. In 
the complicated threads of the picture of 
Rome, capital of the world, appear the figures 
of Peter and Paul, on their mission of spread- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



QUO VADIS 37 

ing the new religion of Christ; Poppaea, 
wife of NerO; beautiful as a dream^ but 
wicked as a nightmare; Eunice, the charm- 
ing slave of Petronius; Chilo, wily Greek 
who can be Christian or pagan as profit 
leads him; Ursus, prodigious in his strength, 
simple as a child in his faith in Christ and 
his devotion to Lygia (from whom G. B. S. 
may have drawn a suggestion in Androdes 
and the Lion); and many minor folk who 
help to make the story stand out as un- 
usually hiunan among the numerous tales of 
Greco-Roman times. 

When Vinicius told his uncle Petronius 
of his passion for Lygia, the latter thought 
nothing was easier than to provide lus 
nephew with what he regarded as a new 
plaything; a word to Nero, who as emperor 
had all hostages in his care — siunmon the 
maiden to the palace — ^hand her over to the 
young patrician as her guardian — ^what more 
could be needed to satisfy every one's de- 
sires, especially as the maiden manifestly 
was pleased with Vinicius? But Petronius 
and his nephew reckoned without a new 
force that had entered into this Roman 
world. They could not understand a girl 
who fled from Nero's court and all its 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



38 ONE HtJNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

magnifioence, fled even from the lover whom 
she loved. But "finally he understood this, 
which iie and Petronius had not understood, 
that the new religion engrafted into the soul 
something unknown to that world in which 
he lived, and that Lygia, even if she loved 
him, would not sacrifice any of her Christian 
truths for his sake, and that, if pleasure 
existed for her, it was a pleasure different 
altogether from that which he and Petronius 
and Caesar's coiuii and all Rome were pursu- 
ing. Every other woman whom he knew 
might become his mistress, but that Chris- 
tian would only become his victim. And 
when he thought of this, he felt anger and 
burning pain, for he felt that his anger was 
powerless. To carry off Lygia seemed to 
him possible; he was even sure that he 
could do so, but he was equally sure that, 
in view of her religion, he himself with his 
bravery was nothing, that his power was 
nothing, and that through it he could effect 
nothing. That Roman military tribune, 
convinced that the power of the sword and 
the fist which had conquered the world, 
would command it forever, said for the 
fijst time in his life that beyond that power 
there might be something else; hence he 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



QUO VADIS 39 

asked himself with amazement what it 



was/' 



It is a very definite and concrete way 
that the author has chosen to show the 
power of the new religion over human lives. 
Struggle as he would, backed by birth, by 
wealth and all the beauty, charm, and 
allurements that wealth could bring, by the 
ingenuity and wit of Petronius, by the 
strong-arm methods of Croton, champion 
bruiser of his time, even by the force of the 
known world in Nero's sway, Vinicius could 
accomplish nothing if all he could win to 
himself was a mere unwilling body, while 
soul and spirit were beyond his grasp. And 
the maddening part to him was that he 
owed all his troubles to the teachings of a 
parcel of Jewish fishermen or their likes, 
or slaves or humble folk who had never 
before entered into serious consideration 
in the thoughts of a patrician like himself. 
It was a long struggle with him, and as the 
reader follows the various people of the 
story through their part of the action, he 
gets an admirable picture of Rome — ^Nero, 
tyrant, actor, and artist, with all his mag- 
nificence and all his debaucheries; the poor 
and humble in their crowded quarters of 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



40 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

the great city; the delight of all the 
senses in the life led by Petronius; the law- 
less streets of Rome by night; the pur- 
suit of Lygia by Vinicius and his hirelings, 
resulting in the death of his. professional 
bruiser Croton at the hands of the faithful 
Ursus, and the disaster to Vinicius which 
led to his nursing back to health by the 
Christians; his meeting with Peter and Paul; 
the gradual opening of his eyes, physical 
and spiritual; his discovery of Christians 
everywhere, among the people, among his 
own slaves, among soldiers and officers, 
even in the very court of Nero. And the 
growing worry and astonishment of Petro- 
nius: 

" ' Vinicius, thou art losing sense, judgment, 
moderation,^ exclaimed Petronius. 

"^I love only her in the world,' responded 
Vinicius. 

"^What of that?' 

" ^This, that I wish no other love. I have 
no wish for your life, your feasts, your 
shamelessness, your crimes.' 

" ^ What is taking place in thee? Art thou 
a Christian?'" 

And then the great fire of Rome, set by 
Tigellinus, that Nero might not lack the 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



QUO VADIS 41 

experience of Priam, who had seen Troy 
bum; the wild ride of Vinicius from Antimn 
to the capital in the hope of rescuing Lygia 
from the flames; the persecution of the 
Christians with the thought of throwing on 
them the rage of the people at the burning 
of the city; the singling out of Lygia by the 
hate of Poppaea because Vinicius had spumed 
the Empress's proffered charms; the final 
rescue by a miracle of strength on the part of 
the ever-faithful Ursus, and the words of 
Vinicius to Peter: 

"^What thou commandest I will do/ 
"'Love men as thy own brothers/ an- 
swered the Apostle, 'for only with love 
mayest thou serve Him/ '^ 

Printed by permission of, and arrangement withi Little, 
Brown & Co., authorized publishers. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



H. G. WELLS 

ZJERBERT OEOROE WELLS, the most dia- 
-^ -^ cussed living novelist, was horn at Bromley, 
Kent, on September 21, 1866, the son of a famous 
professional cricket^layer. His mother vkls an 
innkeeper's daughter who had been a lady^s maid 
before her marriage. The hoy had an irregular 
education, hvt he was quick to learn, and at the 
age of sixteen, after working as an attendant in a 
store, he secured a position as assistant in a gramr 
mar-school. He obtained a scholarship at London 
University, was graduated vrith high honors, and 
taught science in a private school. 

In 1893 he began to write, doing articles for, and 
later becoming dramatic critic of, the ''Pall MaU 
Gazette.^' He was already interested in social con- 
ditions and an untiring student of science. These 
two interests he combined in the series of romances 
that opened with *'The Time MachineJ^ In 
novels and short stories he created startling fantoMes 
of the future, displaying his most abundant inven- 
Hon in *' The War of the Worlds.'' He oftentimes 
discussed future wars in these stories and his fore- 
casts were amazingly like what was seen on the 
batHe-fields of Europe. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 




HERBERT GEORGE WELLS 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



H. G. WELLS 43 

In (he mean time he had been wriiing stories 
abaiU contemporary' life and hooks about social 
conditions. These he turned to more and more 
vyith the years. Of his later novels, bristling with 
wit and ideas, those thai have been most widely 
read and discussed include ^^Kipps," ^^Tono^ 
Bungay,'^ *'Ann Veronica/* ^^The New Machi- 
avelli,*^ ^^ Marriage,*^ and ^^Joan and Peter,** his 
latest novel. Most popular of all was ^^Mr. 
Britling Sees It Through,'* generally regarded as 
the best war novel written in English. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE WAR OF THE WORLDS 

By H. G. WELLS 

Condensation by 
ALFRED S- CLARK 

AXTHAT I marvel at now, when I recall 
^^ the days when the Martians were 
speeding earthward, is our unconcern. The 
skies were peopled with incredible evil, with 
unimaginably repulsive monsters armed with 
superhuman weapons. The catastrophic 
Things were hiu*tling on, covetous of our 
greener and warmer planet, and lovers 
wandered through English lanes, with no 
thought of the swift and scorching death 
above their heads. 

Through a telescope, I had watched one 
of the colossal squirts of flame on the rim 
of the tiny red planet. It did not occur to 
me that these gaseous jets accompanied 
the firing of a mighty gun and had launched 
ten huge cylinders into space. Learning to 
ride a bicycle interested me more than 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE WAR OF THE WORLDS 45 

eruptions on Mars. The planet seemed so 
remote. Forty million miles away! 

Ogilvy, the astronomer, found the first 
messenger. He had seen it falling and 
supposed it a wandering meteorite, but its 
shape surprised him. It was cylindrical, 
fully thirty yards across the exposed face. 
It was so hot that he could not get near it. 
Then, to his utter amazement, the top 
began to imscrew. There was something 
in it, something alive! Not until then did 
he link it with the flashes on Mars. 

Late that afternoon I saw the Martian. 
I was one of a curious crowd in front of the 
cylinder when the lid f eU off. I peered into 
the black interior and fancied I saw shadows 
stirring. Then something like a snake wrig- 
gled into sight. I stood stricken with terror. 
A round body, about four feet across, pulled 
itself painfully to the opening. 

I had expected to see something like a 
man, fantastic, perhaps, but two-legged. This 
thing was just an oily, leathery body, legless 
and armless, with a chinless and noseless 
face. About the quivering mouth wavered 
sixteen long tentacles. Two great eyes, 
dark and luminous, were mirrors for an 
extraordinary brain. The creature panted 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



46 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

and heaved, weighed down by the greater 
pull of gravity on earth. An intense loath- 
ing came over me. Suddenly the monster 
toppled over into the pit. Then I ran, 
madly. 

From a distance I watched the deputation 
that went out imder a white flag. I saw 
three flashes of greenish light, and darts of 
fire leaped from one to another of the little 
figures. Even as I saw them touched with 
death, I did not realize what was happening. 
Suddenly I knew and again I ran. 

People near by slept imconcemedly that 
night, although the heat rays had set half 
a dozen villas aflame and pine-trees were 
red torches. We were sure that these dan- 
gerous invaders were fatally sluggish. A 
well-aimed shell would finish them. And 
while we slept, the Martians were methodi- 
cally rearing those mighty machines that were 
so soon to shatter our neat theories about 
their helplessness. That night another cyl- 
inder fell and eight more were driving on. 

It was the next night that I saw the 
striding Martians. "Boilers on stilts," I 
heard them called later. I saw them by 
flashes of lightning and the glow of coimtless 
fires, clanking machines one hundred feet 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE WAR OF THE WORLDS 47 

high, moving upon three gigantic legs like 
an exaggerated tripod, driving on with an 
express train's speed, smashing everjrthing in 
their path. At the tops, crouched in metal 
hoods, lay the Martians. 

Looking out from my windows at dawn, 
I beheld an abominable desolation, a black- 
ened world that had been green and fair. 
I struck out for London and for miles saw 
not a living being. I had reached the 
Thames when I saw the Things coming, 
five of them. I ran for the water. Straight 
toward me sped one, but I might have 
been an ant in a man's path. It strode 
through the river and towered above Shep- 
perton. Then six hidden guns belched to- 
gether. One shell struck the hood and there 
was a horrible confusion of flesh and blood 
and metal. Something drove the imcon- 
trolled machine on, crashing through the 
village, topping over the church tower, col- 
lapsing in the river. The others rushed to 
the spot and the air was filled with hissing 
of heat rays and crackling of fires. Shepper- 
ton leaped into flame. I staggered to the 
shore and when I looked up, the Things 
were bearing away the smashed machine. 

I stumbled on, panic-stricken, dazed. The 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



48 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

world was doomed. These monsters could 
slay with heat rays beyond the range of our 
biggest guns. Not again could we kill 
one of them by siuprise. Terror stalked 
through London. To the horror of heat 
rays had been added the black smoke, a 
cloud of poison that blighted all living 
things. So London streamed in flight, 6,000,- 
000 people roaring out along the highways 
until they were like rivers in flood. 

I fell into a doze under a hedge and there 
the curate joined me. He was half mad 
with fright and climg to me. We plodded 
on to a suburb where we sought refuge in a 
deserted house. At midnight came a blind- 
ing flash. When day broke, we peered 
through a peep-hole and in the garden was 
a Martian. Embedded in the earth was 
another glowing cylinder. 

For fifteen days I was penned there, so I 
saw more of the monsters than any other 
man now living. I watched their intricate 
machines — ^the automatic digger, the sen- 
sitive handling-machine Uke a metallic spider 
— so flexible and so swiftly sure that they 
seemed centuries in advance of our ri^d 
machinery. I could study, too, the Martian 
habits. I learned that evolution had made 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE WAR OF THE WORLDS 49 

them all brain, cold, remorseless intelligences 
unswayed by emotion. They neither slept 
nor ate; they were sexless and their young 
were budded off, like the young of corals. 
Most horrible to me was the fact that they 
injected men's blood into their veins for 
nourishment. 

It was this that drove me to act as I did 
when the curate went raving mad. I knew 
that his shouts would warn the Martians of 
our presence and I tried to silence him. 
He broke away and I caught him in the 
kitchen; where I felled him with a meat- 
chopper. He dropped, stunned, and then I 
saw two dark eyes at the window. I fled 
to the coal-cellar and above me I heard a 
tapping, tapping, and then the noise of a 
heavy body being dragged across the floor. 

I piled wood and coal over me when 
I heard that tapping at the cellar door. 
Through crevices I could see the terrible 
arm of a handling-machine, waving, feeling, 
examining. Once it ran across the heel 
of my boot and I nearly screamed. Then 
it went away. 

A week passed before I dared look out. 
About the peep-hole was massed quantities 
of the red weed that the Martians had 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



50 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

brought — evidently vegetation on Maxs is 
red. I pushed it aside and gazed out. The 
garden was deserted. 

I crept into a desolate world. About me 
was a smashed village. I struggled on 
through the outskirts of London, and not 
until I reached Wimbledon Common did I 
meet a man. He had food and drink and 
plans for the future, visions of a people 
living in the great drains imtil they had 
science enough to conquer their conquerors. 
I stayed with him imtil I had regained my 
strength and then walked into dead London. 

The metropolis was stilled of all its hum- 
ming life. Here and there were heaps of 
dead, withered by black smoke; here and 
there were signs of destruction, but it was 
little changed except for the horrible quiet. 
I was near South Kensington when I heard 
the mournful howling, "Ulla, ulla!" Not 
until the next day did I see the hood of the 
giant that was making this sobbing wail. 
He did not move, nor did three others that I 
saw, standing strangely still. Driven by fear, 
I resolved to end it all. I walked toward the 
Thing nearest me and saw birds circling about 
the hood, tearing at something within. 

I scrambled hastily up a great rampart 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE WAR OP THE WORLDS 61 

and below me was the Martian camp. They 
were all dead^ nearly fifty of them, some in 
their machines and others prone upon the 
ground. They could conquer man, but they 
had fallen before man's most relentless foe, 
the disease bacteria of earth. 

Whatever destruction was done, the hand 
of the destroyer was stayed. All the gaunt 
wrecks, the blackened skeletons of houses 
that stared so dismally at the sunlit grass 
of the hill, would presently be echoing with 
the hammers of the restorers and ringing 
with the tapping of the trowels. At the 
thought I extended my hands toward the 
sky and began thanking God. In a year^ 
thought I — ^inayear . • . 

Printed by permission of, and arrangement with Harper 
& Bros., authorized publishers. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



HAWTHORNE 

J^ATHANIEL HAWTHORNE, American 
^ ^ writer, was horn in Salem, Maasachuaetta, 
July 4} 1804* His earliest boyhood days were 
spent in Salem, hut when he wa^ fourteen years 
old the family moved to Maine. Here ihe young 
lad amlinued the solitary walks of which he was so 
fond, hut in the wilderness, instead of the narrow 
streets of Salem. Even at this early date he had 
acquired a taste for writing, and carried a little 
blank-hook in which he jotted down his notes. 

After a year in Maine, Hawthorne returned to 
Salem to prepare for college. He amused himself 
by publishing a mmmscript periodical, and at 
times speculated upon the profession he would fol- 
low in the future. He wrote to his mother, ^^I do 
not ward to be a doctor and live by nmCs diseases, 
nor a minister to live by their sins, nor a lawyer 
to live by their quarrels. So I donH see thai there 
is anything left for me hut to be an author. How 
would you like, some day, to see a whole shelf of 
books written by your son with ^ Hawthorne^ s 
Works^ printed on their backs? ^* 

For some years Hawthorne lived in Concord, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 




NATHANIEL HAWTHORNE 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



HAWTHORNE 63 

MassachuseUa, in (he old Manse, and wrote 
''Mosses from an Old Manse,'* ''Twice Told 
Tales'' and '' Grandfather^ s Chairs He joined Oe' 
Brook Farm colony at West Rozbury, hut found 
that the conditions there suited neiffier his taste 
nor his temperament, and he remained but one year. 

On a European visit he spent some time in Italy, 
and during his stay there he sketched out one 
elaborate work, and prepared it for ihe press while 
living in Leamington, England. This was "The 
Marble Faun," tiie English edition of which was 
known as "Transformation, or the Romance of 
Monte Beni." 

The sole idea of " The Marble Faun'' is to iUus^ 
irate the inteUectuaUy and morally awakening 
power of cT sudden, impulsive sin committed by a 
simple, joyous, instinctive "natural man." The 
whole group of characters is imagined with a view 
to the development of (his idea. 

Some other stories of Hawthorne are *'The 
Blithedale Romance," "The Wonder Book," "The 
Snow Image." "Septimus FeUon" and "The 
DoUiver Romance" were left unfinished at the 
author's death. He died at Plymouth, New Hamp^ 
shire, on the 19th of May, 1864, and five days 
later was buried at Sleepy HoUow, a beautiful 
cemetery at Concord where he used to walk under 
the pines when living at the old Manse. Over 
his grave is a simple stone, inscribed with the 
single word, "Hawthorne." 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE MARBLE FAUN 

By NATHANIEL HAWTHORNE 

Condensation by 
REV. PAUL REVERE FROTHINGHAM, D.D. 

pOUR individuals were standing in the 
^ Sculpture Gallery of the Capitol of 
Rome. Three of them were artists, and 
they had been simultaneously struck by a 
resemblance between one of the antique 
statues and a yoimg Italian, the fourth 
member of their party. 

"You must confess, Kenyon," said a 
dark-eyed yoimg woman whom her friends 
called Miriam, "that you never chiseled 
out of the marble a more vivid likeness 
than this. Our friend Donatello is the very 
Faim of Praxiteles. Is it not true, Hilda?" 

"Not quite — almost — ^yes, I really think 
so,*' replied Hilda, a slender New England 
girl whose perception of form was singularly 
clear. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE MARBLE FAUN 56 

"Donatello," said Miriam, "you are a 
veritable Faun. Shake aside those brown 
curls and let us see whether this resemblance 
includes furry ears/' 

"No, no! dearest Signorina/' answered 
Donatello, "you must take my ears for 
granted," and he lightly tripped beyond the 
reach of her extended hand, only a moment 
later to come close to her and look into her 
face with appealing affection. 

"You have bewitched the poor lad," said 
the sculptor, laughing. "That is a way of 
yours. I see another of your followers 
behind yon pillar, and his presence has 
aroused Donatello's wrath." 

They had emerged from the palace, 
and there, partly concealed by a pillar in the 
portico, stood the wild figure of a bearded 
man. 

"Miriam," whispered Hilda, "it is your 
model." 

Miriam's model, as Hilda called him, had 
suddenly appeared a few weeks previously 
when the four friends were visiting one of the 
Catacombs. In the dark depths of the 
earth, amid the labyrinth of passageways, 
Miriam had been lost. Guided by the 
shouts of the others, she had finally reap- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



56 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

peared, accompanied by this strange and 
uncouUi creature. And from that time on 
he continued constantly to haimt her foot- 
steps, disappearing perhaps for days, only 
to return and glide like a shadow into her 
life. What hold he had on her or she on 
him remained unknown, enhancing the mys- 
tery, already deep, which hung about this 
beautiful woman. 

One of Miriam's friends took the matter 
sadly to heart. This was the Ught-hearted, 
faun-like Italian coimt, who seemed such a 
child of nature. He cherished against the 
mysterious stranger one of those instinctive 
antipathies which the lower animals some- 
times display. 

In the Medici Gardens the unwelcome 
creature had appeared among the trees just 
as Donatello was declaring his love for 
Miriam. 

"I hate him," muttered Donatello as he 
caught sight of the sinister figure. 

"Be satisfied; I hate him, too," said 
Miriam. 

Whereupon Donatello had offered to clutch 
him by the throat, that theyjnight be rid 
of him forever; and the woman had diffi- 
culty in restraining the gentle youth, whose 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE MARBLE FAUN 67 

hitherto light-hearted nature seemed sud- 
denly suffused with rage. 

But it was otherwise a few nights later 
on a moonlight ramble that a company of 
artists were enjoying among the ruins of 
old Rome. The four friends were of the 
party, which, after visiting many places, 
climbed the Capitoline Hill and stood on the 
Tarpeian Rock. It was bordered by a low 
parapet. They all bent over the railing 
and looked down. Miriam and Donatello 
stood together gazing into the moonlit 
depths. They were so absorbed with the 
scene and with each other that they did not 
notice the departure of their friends. Hilda 
had gone off with Kenyon, who had drawn 
her quietly away, and the others had de- 
parted in twos and threes, leaving Miriam 
behind alone with the Italian. But not 
entirely alone. Hilda had gone but a short 
way with the sculptor when she missed her 
friend and turned back. She reached the 
paved courtyard with the parapet just in 
time to witness unnoticed a tragic scene. 
Out of the shadows the familiar figure of 
Miriam's persecutor had appeared and ap- 
proached her. There was a struggle begin* 
ning and ending in one breathless instant.; 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



58 ONE mJNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

Along with it was a loud, fearful cry which 
quivered upward through the air and sank 
quivering downward to the earth. Then a 
silence! Poor Hilda saw the whole quick 
passage of a deed which took but that little 
time to grave itself in the eternal adamant. 
She turned and fled imseen, and the lovers 
were indeed alone. 

"What have you done?" said Miriam in a 
horror-stricken whisper. 

"I did what ought to be done to a traitor/' 
Donatello replied ; " what your eyes bade me 
do as I held the wretch over the precipice." 

The last words struck Miriam like a 
bullet. Had her eyes indeed provoked, 
or assented to this deed? She had not 
known it. But, alas! thinking back, she 
could not deny that a wild joy had flamed 
up in her heart when she saw her persecutor 
in mortal peril. Yes, Donatello's had been 
the hand; but hers had been the look, 
except for which the hand had not been 
lifted. 

She turned to her fellow-criminal, the 
youth so lately innocent, whom she had 
drawn into her doom, and pressed him 
close, close to her bosom, with a clinging 
embrace that brought their hearts together. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE MARBLE FAUN 69 

"Yes, Donatello, you speak the truth," said 
she. " My heart consented. The deed knots 
us together like the coil of a serpent." They 
threw one glance at the heap of death below 
to assure themselves that it was not all a 
dream — ^then turned from the fatal prec- 
ipice and made their way back into the 
city arm in arm and heart in heart. 

An agreement had been entered into 
before the moonlight tragedy had taken 
place that the four friends should meet next 
morning in the Church of the Capuchins 
to study together Guido's famous picture of 
St. Michael and Satan. Thither at the hour 
agreed upon Miriam and Donatello turned 
their steps. Conscious of secret guilt, they 
were the more anxious to keep a casual 
engagement. But when they drew near 
the church Kenyon alone was waiting for 
them. Hilda had promised to be of the 
party, but she was not there. The three 
pushed back the heavy curtain and entered 
the nave, only to have their gaze arrested at 
once by a conspicuous object. On a slightly 
elevated bier lay the body of a dead monk, 
tall candles burning at his head and feet. 
The rigid figure was clad in the brown 
woolen frock of the Capuchins, with the 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



60 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

hood drawn over the head, but so as to leave 
the features xmcovered. Somethmg seemed 
to act like a magnet upon Miriam. She 
passed between two of the lighted candles 
and looked down. "My God!" she mur- 
mured, "what is this?" She grasped Dona- 
tello's hand and felt it give a convulsive 
shudder. No wonder that their blood cur- 
dled. The dead face of the monk gazing 
at them beneath its half-closed eyelids was 
the same visage that had glared upon their 
naked souls the night before as Donatello 
had flung him over the precipice. What did it 
meah? Kenyon drew near, perceived their 
agitation, and started to say something. 
But Miriam laid her finger to her lips and 
quietly said, "Hush!" From the shadowy 
church the three emerged into the Roman 
sunlight; Kenyon to go in search of Hilda, 
but leaving a darker shadow still to settle 
down upon the lovers. The young Italian 
was petrified with horror. Miriam tried 
to cheer him, assuring him of her undying 
love. But she met with no response. They 
parted, ahnost as strangers, it being agreed 
that Donatello should seek his castle in the 
moxmtains. 
Thither, in the summer, Kenyon went to 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE MARBLE FAUN 61 

pay a long-planned visit. He found the poor 
faun sadly changed. The idea of a life- 
long penance had taken firm possession of 
Donatello. He was intent on finding some 
method of self-torture. Kenyon, knowing 
now something of what had happened, 
arranged with Miriam that she should be in 
the public square of Perugia on a specified 
day, near the statue of Pope Julius. There 
the lovers met again. The sense of their 
mutual crime had stunned, but not destroyed 
the youth's affection. They needed one 
another. Kenyon cheered and encouraged 
them. Their two lives flowed together and 
the great bronze statue of the Pope, his 
hand outreached in a papal benediction, 
beneath which they had met, appeared to 
impart a blessing on their marriage. 

So Kenyon went back to Rome to woo the 
gentle Hilda, whose sensitive soul was bur- 
dened by the knowledge of the awful 
guilt of her friends. The secret weighed 
upon her heavily. She sought the seclusion 
of great churches, and at last, Protestant 
though she was, she found relief by pouring 
out in the confessional at St. Peter's the 
story of the crime that she had witnessed. 

But for Miriam and Donatello the end 



VOL. I.- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



62 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

was not yet reached. The sense of sin had 
awakened in the faun-like youth what human 
love could not assuage. Miriam could not 
rid him of the idea that he must surrender 
himself to justice. Kenyon had glimpses 
of the pair now taking part in revelries, 
but again concealed behind habiliments of 
woe. In a desolate spot in the Campagna, 
Miriam at last disclosed the mystery sur- 
rounding her own past. It was the story 
of a marriage to be forced upon her from 
which her soul revolted. She escaped, though 
not without unjust suspicions of a crime. 
Concealing her identity, she gave herself to 
art. Then, in the Catacombs, the man 
whom she loathed, half brute and half 
religious maniac, had reappeared, dogging 
her steps and threatening to disclose her to 
the world — ^with what catastrophe the sculp- 
tor knew. 

As for Hilda and Kenyon, they went for- 
ward into happiness, their pure love con- 
secrating all they did. But even as they 
plighted their troth to one another in the 
Pantheon before the tomb of Raphael, upon 
turning around they saw a kneeling figure 
on the pavement. It was Miriam, who 
reached out her hands in a blessing, but a 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE MARBLE FAUN 63 

blessing which seemedalso to repel. As 
for DonatellO; remorse eventually worked its 
way, [and when heard of last he was in a 
dungeon as deep as that beneath the Castle 
of St, Angelo. 

Houghton Mifflin Company^ authorized publishers. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



BUNYAN 

yOHN BUNYAN was horn at Elston, Eng- 
land, in November^ 1628. His father was a 
rough tinker, but managed to send the hoy to the 
village school. In the crude home, current religious 
notions were so vividly impressed upon the child's 
mind thai he frequently had terrifying visions of 
evil spirits hearing him away to eternal torment. 

At seventeen, he served for a year in the army. 
Two years later he married a woman whose only 
dowry was two religious hooks. They intensified 
his religious fervor. After a long and terrible 
sjnritual struggle he conquered his sins, the worst 
of which were liking to ring the church-bell and 
dancing on the village green. 

The spirit of preaching now lay such hold upon 
him that he attracted great crowds. In 1660 he 
was arrested as a Dissenter and thrown into the 
Bedford jail, where he spent the greater part of 
twelve years. He enjoyed occasional precarious 
freedom, and was allowed to preach to sixty other 
Dissenters in prison, hut he worried much about his 
wife and four little children. Nevertheless, his con- 
finement was a boon, for it gave him leisure for 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 




^ '/ 7 



JOHN BUNYAN 



Digitized by VjOOQLC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



BUNYAN 65 

the thinking, otit of which grew his incomparable 
^^PUgrim's Progress.^* He began to write it in 
jail, hut it was not published until six years laier. 
The irresistible charm of the thrilling, fairy-tale 
quality, combined vrith its ^'reverence for God and 
sympathy for man,'^ won immense popularity at 
once. 

The last years of his life were rich in activity 
and acclaim. He preached to great audiences in 
London and elsewhere, but remained simple and 
passionately earnest to his death in 1688. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE PILGRIM'S PROGRESS 

By JOHN BUNYAN 

Condensation by 
BASIL KING 

AS I walked through the wilderness of 
-^ this world I lighted on a certain place 
where was a Den and laid me down to sleep. 
As I slept I dreamed a dream. I saw a man 
clothed with rags, a book in his hand; and a 
burden on his back. Reading in the book, 
he broke out with a cry: "What shall I do 
to be saved? '* 

Going home, he opened his trouble to his 
wife and children, who at first pitied but 
presently chided him. This continuing for 
many days, he walked in the fields, where 
he saw coming to him a man named Evan- 
gelist, who advised him to flee the City of 
Destruction, which was to be burnt with 
fire and brimstone, and make for the City 
of Zion. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE PILGRIM'S PROGRESS 67 

Then was there much ado in the family 
of Christian, for such was his name, that 
he should run from his home on a way which 
all knew to be perilous. Two of his neigh- 
bors did Christian implore to accompany 
him. The name of the one was Obstinate, 
that of the other Pliable. "What," cried 
Obstinate, "leave our friends and comforts 
behind us?" But Pliable went with him 
for a space, till they reached a quag named 
the Slough of Despond. Having wallowed 
here for a time Pliable, getting out on the 
side nearest to his home, turned back. But 
Christian struggling on alone, one Help 
came to his rescue and led him to solid 
ground. 

Here as Christian was walking he espied 
afar off a Mr. Worldly Wiseman, of the 
town of Carnal Policy. To his questions as 
to where he would be going Christian replied 
that he sought means to be rid of the burden 
on his back. "Why, in yonder village. 
Morality," said the gentleman, "there dwells 
one whose name is Legality, and who hath 
a pretty young man. Civility, to his son. 
These will ease thee of thy burden." So 
saying he directed Christian to a high hill, 
the which, on his reaching it, bent over so 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



68 ONE HXJNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

much that it wapS like to fall on and bury 
him. 

Now Christian began to be sorry that he 
had taken Mr. Worldly Wiseman's counsel; 
whereupon he again saw Evangelist, who 
encouraged him to go back and seek the 
Gate for which he had been making when 
urged to go out of the way. So in process 
of time Christian got up to this Gate, over 
which was written, "Knock and it shall be 
opened unto you." He knocked, therefore, 
and one named Good-will came to answer. 

Then did Christian recite the perils through 
which he had come in seeking to be rid of 
his burden. "Be content to bear it," said 
Good-will, "until thou come to the place of 
deliverance, for there it will fall off of itself." 

So was he sent on his way again, walking 
along a road which ended in a cross and a 
sepulcher. I saw in my dream that £^s he 
came up with the cross his burden loosed 
from his back till it fell into the sepulcher, 
where I saw it no more. 

Then Christian gave three leaps for joy 
and went on singing, coming to the hill 
Difficulty. About midway to the top of 
this hill was an arbor in which he sat him 
down to rest, but soon fell asleep. Losing 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



X 



THE PILGRIM'S PROGRESS 09 

under the settle the roll m which he had 
begun to read, he started hastily, when he 
awoke, on his way again. At the top of the 
hill there met him two men nmning amain. 
These were Mistrust and Timorous, who 
warned him to go back, since there were lions 
in the way. Then was Christian in a great 
quandary, since to go back to his own city 
would mean to be burnt with fire and brim- 
stone, while to go on would be to risk death 
at the mouths of lions. Thus troubled, he 
sought comfort in reading in his roll, but, 
lo! it was not in his bosom. 

Then was much time lost while Christian 
returned to the arbor to find his book; but 
while he was thus bewailing his miscarriage 
he lifted up his eyes and saw a stately palace, 
the name of which was Beautifid. Here 
dwelt the damsels Discretion, Prudence, 
Piety, and Charity, who made Christian 
welcome, laying him in the chamber called 
Peace. Next day they showed him the 
armory of their house, as well as such 
ancient treasures as Moses' rod, the hammer 
and nail with which Jael slew Sisera, and the 
jaw-bone with which Samson did mighty 
feats. Likewise did they take him up to 
the top of their house and bid him look at 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



70 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

the pleasant countries of the Delectable 
Moxintains and Emmanuel's Land. ''When 
thou comest there," said they, "thou mayst 
see the Gate of the Celestial City." 

Going on thence, he entered the Valley 
of Humiliation, where met him the foul 
fiend, ApoUyon. ApoUyon claiming Chris- 
tian as his subject, the latter could in no 
wise deny the fact, seeing that he had been 
bom in the City of Destruction, over which 
the monster ruled. Nevertheless, Christian 
renounced his allegiance to this wicked 
prince, claiming that he had sworn himself 
to the King of Princes, who dwelt in the 
City of Zion, Then ensued a dreadful fight 
between Christian and the fiend, durmg 
which the fiend was like to have worsted the 
pilgrim had it not been for the weapons fur- 
nished him from their armory by the fair 
damsels in the Castle Beautiful. The battle 
being over, there came a hand with some of 
the leaves of the Tree of Life, wherewith 
Christian stanched his wounds. 

Now at the end of this valley was another 
still more dread, called the Valley of the 
Shadow of Death. On its right was a very 
deep ditch into which the bhnd have led 
the blind in all ages, while on the left was a 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE PILGRIM'S PROGRESS 71 

dangerous quag; the which if even a good 
man were to fall into it he could find no 
bottom for his foot to stand on. Good 
Christian was the more put to it, seeing that 
the pathway was exceeding narrow, and as 
he went on he sighed bitterly. About the 
middle of this valley was there also the 
mouth of Hell, out of which came dismal 
flame and smoke. When the fiends came 
up to this entrance he cried out in a vehe- 
ment voice, ''I will walk in the strength of 
the Lord God," whereat they gave back. 

Having passed through this valley, he 
came up with his friend Faithful, who had, 
though Christian knew it not, followed him 
out of the City of Destruction. Then was 
there much discourse between the two pil- 
grims as to the perils through which they 
had come, with Faithful telling of his escape 
from Madame Wanton, as well as from the 
old man with the three daughters, the Lust 
of the Flesh, the Lust of the Eyes, and the 
Pride of Life. Also did Faithful tell of his en- 
counters with Arrogancy, Pride, and Wordly- 
glory. But the worst of them all was with 
Shame, a bold-faced fellow who would never 
have done speaking against all good men 
and things. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



72 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

Then I saw in my dream that they pres- 
ently came to the town of Vanity, where is a 
fair kept called Vanity Fair. Here is there 
at all times such noise and folly, with the 
buying and selling of such foolish wares as 
have given the town its fame. The people 
of the fair, taking the pilgrims for outlandish 
men and bedlams, made a great gazing at 
them. Likewise were they not a little 
amused that Christian and F^thful, setting 
very light by all their merchandise, did speak 
exhortingly. Much hubbub did follow there- 
on, during which the pilgrims were cast 
into jail. At a convenient time they were 
brought forth to trial before the Lord Hate- 
good, witness being given against them 
by such base fellows as Envy, Superstition, 
and Pickthank. Among the jurors were 
Mr. Nogood, Mr. Malice, Mr. Lovelust, 
and such like, by whom good Faithful was 
condemned. After much persecution they 
burned him to ashes at the stake, whereat 
I saw in my dream that a chariot with horses 
carried him up to the Celestial Gate by the 
nearest way. 

As for Christian, He that overrules all 
things released him from prison, so that he 
went on his way in company with one Hope- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE PILGRIM'S PROGRESS 73 

ful, who had followed him froin that town. 
Soon they came to a great fortress called 
Doubting Castle, the owner of which was 
Giant Despair, who took them prisoners. 
Now Giant Despair had to his wife a woman 
named Diffidence. So when he was gone 
to bed he told her what he had done, to wit 
that he had taken a couple of prisoners, and 
asked her what he should do with them. 
Her coimsel was that he should advise 
them to make away with themselves. So 
when morning was come he goes to them 
with a very surly manner, telling them that, 
as they were never like to get out of his 
dungeon, they should end themselves with 
knife, halter, or poison. When they desired 
him to let them go he looked very ugly upon 
them, and, rushing at them, had doubtless 
made an end to them himself, but that he 
fell in a fit to which he was subject, and lost 
the use of his hand. 

Thus escaping from Giant Despair, they 
came to the Delectable Mountains, where 
met them certain shepherds. Knowledge, 
Experience, Watchful, and Sincere, who 
took them by the hand and had them to 
their tents. Also did they lead them forth 
to the top of a hill called Clear, from 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



74 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

which they might spy the Celestial Gate 
through a perspective glass. 

Then I saw in my dream that Christian 
and Hopeful, going down the mountains, 
and passing through the coimtry of Conceit, 
got over to a land called the Enchanted 
Groimd, and thus into the country of Beulah, 
whose air was sweet. Their way lying 
directly through it, they solaced themselves 
there, listening to the singing of birds and 
seeing the flowers appear in the earth. 

Here they had a distant view of the City 
of Zion, which was built of pearls and 
precious stones, and the street paved with 
gold. Also I saw that as they went on 
there met them two men in raiment that 
shone. "You have but two difficulties more 
to meet," said they, "and then you are in 
the City." 

Now I further saw that betwixt them and 
the gate was the Biver of Death. There 
was no bridge to go over it, and the river 
was deep. At sight thereof the pilgrims 
were much stunned, asking if there was no 
other way. Being told there was none, 
they addressed themselves to the water. 

Having entered it, Christian began to 
sink; but Hopeful cried, "Be of good cheer. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE PILGRIM'S PROGRESS 76 

my brother; I feel the bottom/' But as for 
Christian, a great darkness and horror fell 
upon him, in which he was troubled by hob- 
goblins and evil spirits. Hopeful, therefore, 
had much ado to keep his friend's head 
above water, repeating to him the words of 
the roll, "When thou passest through the 
waters I will be with you/' Thus after 
much struggle they got over. 

Now the City stood on a mighty hill; 
but up that hill the pilgrims went with 
ease because they had two Shining Ones to 
lead them. Also had they left their mortal 
garments behind them in the flood. "You 
are going now," said the Shining Ones, as 
they climbed, "to the Paradise of God, 
whereinjyou shall see the Tree of Life and eat 
of the fruits thereof." And while they were 
drawing toward the gate behold a company 
of the Heavenly Host came out to meet 
them, some before, some behind, and some 
on the right and left, continually sounding 
as they went with melodious noises, so that 
the sight was as if Heaven itself had come 
down to meet them. 

Now I saw in my dream that these two 
pilgrims went in at the gate, and, lo! as 
they entered, they were transfigured, and 

yoL. I. — 1 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



76 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

had raiment given them that shone like 
gold. There were also that met them with 
harps and crowns^ and all the bells in the 
City rang for mirth^ while it was said, 
''Enter ye into the joy of your Lord/' 
Now just as the gates were opened to let 
the men in I looked in after them, and 
behold the City shone like the sun. In the 
streets walked many men with crowns on 
their heads, and golden harps to sing praises 
withal. After that they shut up the gates, 
which, when I had seen it, I wished myself 
among the Redeemed. 

As I was in my dream, I saw that Chris- 
tiana, she that was wife to Christian, was 
much broken by her ungodly carriages to 
the good man who had now come to the 
Celestial City. Calling to remembrance his 
restless groans and brinish tears, she resolved 
to go after him. With that her four boys 
fell to weeping and cried that they would 
go with her. On this one came to her house 
and said, "Christiana, here is a letter for 
thee which I have brought from thy hus- 
band's King.'' She foimd that it smelled 
after the manner of the best perfume and 
was written in letters of gold. Henceforth 
she carried it in her bosom, reading it to 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE PILGRIM'S PROGRESS 77 

herself and her children till they had got 
most of it by rote of heart. 

So she likewise went out on her journey 
to the Celestial City, passing through trials 
similar to those of her good man, and guided 
by one Mr. Greatheart. Though many dis- 
suaded her, such as Mrs. Timorous, Mrs. 
Lightmind, Mrs. Love-the-flesh, Mrs. Know- 
nothing, and Madame Bubble, yet pressed 
she on, arriving like good Christian himself 
at the River of Death. Here, when she was 
come, the road was thronged with people 
to see her fcross. All the banks, too, beyond 
the river were full of horses and chariots 
which were come down from above to 
accompany her to the City gate. So, 
with a beckon of farewell to those that fol- 
lowed, she entered the river. The last 
words she was heard to utter were, "Lord, I 
come to be with thee." 

Then her children and friends returned to 
their place, for that those who waited for 
Christiana had carried her out of their sight. 
But she went in and entered at the gate 
with all the ceremonies of joy that had 
welcomed good Christian before her. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



BULWER'LYTTON 

ZpDWARD GEORGE EARLE LYTTON 
-^-^ BULWERj more familiarly knoum to novel 
readers as Btdwer-LytUm, was bom in London, 
May 25, 180S. He was more of a prodigy in his 
yovih and had a much more public career than most 
men who have achieved fame as novelists. At the 
age of fifteen he distinguished himself by publish- 
ing a volume of poems and by failing so violently 
in love thai he became highly morbid when his pro- 
posal of marriage was not taken seriously by the 
father of the girl he loved. She died a few years 
later and Bulwer said thai the disappointment 
embittered his whole life. At Cambridge, he won 
a medal for the excellence of a poem and published 
another book of verse. 

In 1827 he had sufficiently recovered from his 
premature love-affair to marry, against his mother^ s 
wishes, a brilliant beauty of society. The marriage 
was doomed from the outset to be unhappy, for 
both Bulwer and his wife were too unrestrained to 
live together. They quarreled, were legally sepa^ 
rated, and continued to quarrel in print for years. 
Bulwer was rapidly winning renown. His first 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 




EDWARD BULWEIULYTTON 



Digitized by VjOOQLC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



BULWERrLYTTON 79 

novels were siuxeasea, hut it was not until **The 
Last Days of Pompeii^^ {i8S4) that his fame was 
assured. Nine years later appeared *^The Last 
of the BaronSj^ which many good judges have con- 
sidered his best work. He wrote numerous other 
stories, novels of society, of crime, of mysteries, of 
family life. He was the most successful dramatist 
of his time. He dabbled in journalism. For ten 
years he was a member of Parliament, was later 
secretary for {he colonies, and in 1866 was raised 
to the peerage as Baron Lytton. He died on 
January 18, 1873. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE LAST DAYS OF POMPEII 

By EDWARD BULWER-LYTTON 

Condensation by 
PROF. WILLIAM FENWICK HARRIS 

"'r>LAUCUS the Athenian, thy time has 
^^ come/ said a loud and clear voice; 
'the lion awaits thee/ 

"'I am ready/ said the Athenian. He 
had bent his limbs so as to give himself the 
firmest posture at the expected rush of the 
lion, with his small and shining weapon 
raised on high, in the faint hope that one 
well-directed thrust might penetrate through 
the eye to the brain of his grim foe. 

"But to the unutterable astonishment of 
all, the beast seemed not even aware of the 
presence of the criminal. At the first mo- 
ment of its release it halted abruptly in the 
arena, raised itself half on end, snuflSng the 
upward air with impatient sighs; then sud- 
denly it sprang forward, but not on the 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE LAST DAYS OF POMPEH 81 

Athenian. At half speed it circled round and 
round the space, turning its vast head from 
side to side with an anxious and perturbed 
gaze, as if seeking only some avenue of 
escape; once or twice it endeavored to leap 
up the parapet that divided it from the 
audience, and, on failing, uttered rather a 
baffled howl than its deep-toned and kingly 
roar. It evinced no sign either of wrath or 
of himger; its tail drooped along the sand, 
instead of lashing its gaimt sides; and its 
eye, though it wandered at times to Glaucus, 
rolle4 again listlessly from him. At length, 
as if tired of attempting to escape, it crept 
with a moan into its cage, and once more 
laid itself down to rest. 

"The first surprise of the assembly at the 
apathy of the lion soon grew into resent- 
ment at its cowardice; and the populace 
already merged their pity for the fate of 
Glaucus into angry compassion for their own 
disappointment. The manager called to 
the keeper: 

"'How is this? Take a goad, prick him 
forth, and then close the door of the den.^ 

"As the keeper, with some fear, but more 
astonishment, was preparing to obey, a 
loud cry was heard at one of the entrances 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



82 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

of the arena; there were a confusion, a 
bustle, voices of remonstrance suddenly 
breaking forth, and suddenly silenced at the 
reply. All eyes turned in wonder toward 
the quartelp of the disturbance; the crowd 
gave way, and suddenly Sallust appeared 
on the senatorial benches, his hair di- 
sheveled, breathless, heated, half exhausted. 
He cast his eyes hastily around the ring. 
'Remove the Athenian,^ he cried; 'haste, 
he is innocent! Arrest Arbaces the Egjrp- 
tian: he is the murderer of ApsecidesI ' 

"'Art thou mad, Sallust!' said the 
prsetor, rising from his seat. 'What means 
this raving?' 

'"Remove the Athenian! Quick! or his 
blood be on your head. Praetor, delay, and 
you answer with your own life to the em- 
peror! I bring with me the eye-witness 
to the death of the priest Apsecides. Room 
there! Stand back! Give way! People of 
Pompeii, fix every eye upon Arbaces. There 
he sits! Room there for the priest Calenus!' 

"Pale, haggard, fresh from the jaws of 
famine and of death, his face fallen, his eyes 
dull as a vulture's, his broad frame gaimt 
as a skeleton, Calenus was supported into 
the very row in which Arbaces sat. His 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE LAST DAYS OF POAiPEII 83 

releasers had given him sparingly of food; 
but the chief sustenance that nerved his 
feeble limbs was revenge! 

"'The priest Calenus! Calenus!' cried 
the mob. '7s it he? No, it is a dead man!' 

"'It is the priest Calenus/ said the 
praetor, gravely. 'What hast thou to say?' 

"'Arbaces of Egypt is the minrderer of 
Apsecides, the priest of Isis; these eyes saw 
him deal the blow. It is from the dungeon 
into which he plimged me, it is from the 
darkness and horror of a death by famine, 
that the gods have raised me to proclaim 
his crime! Release the Athenian — he is 
innocent!' 

"'It is for this, then, that the lion spared 
him. A miracle! a miracle!' cried Pansa. 

"'A miracle! a miracle!' shouted the peo- 
ple. 'Remove the Athenian. Arbaces to the 
lion!^ 

"The power of the praetor was as a reed 
beneath the whirlwind; still, at his word the 
guards had drawn themselves along the lower 
benches, on which the upper classes sat 
separate from the vulgar. They made but 
a feeble barrier; the waves of the human 
sea halted for a moment, to enable Arbaces 
to count the exact moment of his dooiii! 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



84 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

In despair, and in a terror which beat down 
even pride, he glanced his eyes over the 
rolling and rushing crowd, when, right 
above them, through the wide chasm which 
had been left in the velaria, he beheld a 
strange and awful apparition; he beheld, 
and his craft restored his courage! 

"He stretched his hand on high; over his 
lofty brow and royal features there came an 
expression of unutterable solemnity and 
command. 

'''Behold!^ he shouted with a voice of 
thimder which stilled the roar of the crowd; 
^behold how the gods protect the guiltless 1 
The fires of the avenging Orcus burst forth 
against the false witness of my accusers!'" 

The fires of the '^avenging Orcus" were 
those of the great eruption of Vesuvius in 
A.D. 79. Toward such a melodramatic climax, 
furnished him by nature, the author had 
been spinning the lives of his characters in 
the little city which nestled under the shadow 
of the volcano. 

The converging threads of the story are 
many, giving in the final weaving a com- 
plete picture of the life of Pompeii — ^its 
shops, tiny palaces, baths, forum, theater, 
circus, and all that daily took place in the 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE LAST DAYS OF POMPEII 85 

energetic life of this toy copy of Rome at 
the beginning of the Christian era. The 
story centers around Glaucus the Athenian, 
brilliant, gay, witty descendant of a nobler 
race f rivoling himself away amid the coarser 
pleasures of the Romans, until finally all that 
was fine in him was brought forth by his 
love for lone of Naples, who, like himself, was 
a child of Greece. And alongside this tale 
of love runs the pathetic story of Nydia, 
the blind slave girl, who centers all her hopes 
of happiness in winning the affection of 
Glaucus. To this end she gains possession 
of a love potion which the opulent Julia 
has had prepared in the belief that it will 
bring to her the much-desired Glaucus. In 
reality the potion is a poison which will 
drive the unfortunate drinker mad. It is 
designed by the sinister Egyptian Arbaces 
to clear his path to lone from his rival 
Glaucus. In his raving, Glaucus comes upon 
Arbaces just as the latter has killed lone's 
brother Apsecides, a young priest of Isis, 
who, much to the annoyance of Arbaces, 
has embraced the new Christian faith. 
Arbaces throws the guilt upon poor Glaucus 
with apparent success. But the priest Cale- 
nus was a hidden witness, with the final 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



86 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CX)ND£NS£D 

result shown in the great episode of the book. 
As the crowd in the circus turned their 
eyes toward Vesuvius they beheld "a fire 
that shifted and wavered in its hues with 
every moment^ now fiercely luminous, now 
of a dull and dying red, that again blazed 
terrifically forth with intolerable glare. Then 
there arose on high the universal shrieks of 
women; the men stared at one another, but 
were dumb. At that moment they felt 
the earth shake beneath their feet; the walls 
of the theater trembled, and beyond in the 
distance they heard the crash of falling 
roofs; an instant more and the mountain- 
cloud seemed to roll toward them, dark and 
rapid, like a torrent; at the same time it 
cast forth from its bosom a shower of ashes 
mixed with vast fragments of burning stone! 
Over the crushing vines, over the desolate 
streets, over the amphitheater itself, far and 
wide, with many a mighty splash in the 
agitated sea, fell that awful shower! No 
longer thought the crowd of justice or of 
Arbaces; safety for themselves was their 
sole thought. Each turned to fly — each 
dashing, pressing, crushing, against the 
other." 
It was save himself who could in that 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE LAST DAYS OF POMPEH 87 

night of horrors. Of the many episodes 
seen in the flashes of light was that of blind 
Nydia guiding Glaucns to lone, and then 
leading both to safety, she the only one 
at home in the darkness in which she had 
always lived. And then, when they had 
gained a ship and put to sea and aU but 
Nydia had fallen into exhausted slumber, 
"May the gods bless you, Athenian!" she 
murmured. "May you be happy with your 
beloved one; may you sometimes remember 
Nydia!" 

A sailor, half dozing on the deck, heard a 
slight splash on the waters. Drowsily he 
looked up, and believed, as the vessel merrily 
bounded on, he fancied he saw something 
white above the waves. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



DOYLE 

OIR ARTHUR CONAN DOYLE was horn 
^ on May 22^ 1859 ^ in Edinburgh. His father ^ 
Charles Doyle, was an artist of fantastic imaginor 
tion. The hoy went to Stonyhurst College, studied 
in Germany, and returned to take his degree at 
Edinburgh University in 1885. He signed as 
ship's doctor for a two years' whaling trip in the 
Arctic, traveled in West Africa, and finally settled 
as a doctor in Sovthsea. His resUess imagination 
found constant expression in short stories. Sher- 
lock Holmes made his first appearance in ^'A 
Study in Scarlet'' (1887) hut won his immense 
popularity in '^The Adventures of Sherlock 
Holmes." The original of the genius-detective was 
Doctor Bell of Edinburgh University. The popur 
lar hero lived again in " The Memoirs of Sherlock 
Holmes," " The Hound of the BaskerviUes," and 
^'The Return of Sherlock Holmes." 

Doctor Doyle drew abundantly from historical 
sources for his novels and plays. ''The White 
Company," a stirring romance, first introduced Sir 
Nigel as an old man. In 1906 his youth was 
portrayed in the hook nam/edfor him. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 




SIR ARTHUR CONAN DOYLE 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



DOYLE 89 

Conan Doyle served in a field-hospital in (he 
South African wary wrote two books in defense 
of the British army in the war, and vhis knighted 
in 1902. He has written a three-volume history of 
(he Great War. 

Sir Conan Doyle is a large, athletic man, who 
has never lost his enthusiasm for sports. His 
home in Sussex, England, is filled with trophies 
from many parts of (he world. Tennis and cricket 
have kept him fii jfor his enormous literary under- 
takings. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



SIR NIGEL 

By SIR ARTHUR CONAN DOYLE 

Condensation by 
AUCE.G. GROZIER 

JpVIL times fell upon England in the year 
^ 1348, when the great plague devastated 
the land. It was during this period that the 
story of Sir Nigel takes place. 

The house of Loring, like many another 
noble family, felt the heavy hand of mis- 
fortune; for after the Barons' War and law- 
suits with Waverly Abbey the men of the 
Church and the men of the law left nothing 
but the manor of Tilford for the remaining 
members of the family, Lady Ermyntrude 
and her grandson Nigel. 

Nigel Loring came of a race of heroes, 
his grandfather having fallen at the battle 
of Stirling, and his father in the sea fight of 
Sluys. Nigel, his veins thrilling with the 
blood of a hundred soldiers, was filled with 
the desire for adventure and combat; having 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



SIR NIGEL 91 

been trained at the desire of his grandmother 
in skill at arms and courage, he became also 
a daring rider. At times a fierce bitterness 
assailed Nigel at the thought of the wrongs 
done by the Abbot of Waverly, whom he 
believed had robbed the Lorings of much of 
their estate. 

On the first day of May, the Festival of 
the Apostles Philip and James, consterna- 
tion reigned at the Abbey when it was found 
that a large pike had eaten the carp in 
Abbot John's fish-pond, Nigel being accused 
of putting the pike in the pond. Abbot John 
and the sacrist. Brother Samuel, were in 
consultation upon the subject when they 
were rudely interrupted by a buzz of excite- 
ment among the monks in the cloister. A 
white-faced brother flung open the door and, 
rushing into the room, cried, "Father Abbot, 
alas, alas. Brother John is dead, and the 
subprior is dead, and the Devil is loose in 
the five-virgate field!" 

Now what the brother called the "Devil'' 
was a great yellow horse, held at the Abbey 
for the debt of his owner, Franklin Aylward; 
such a horse, it was said, was not to be found 
betwixt the Abbey and the king's stables 
at Windsor. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



92 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

It was a sorry day that brought the horse 
to the Abbey, for no one there could be 
found who would or could ride him or con- 
quer him; he had indeed nearly killed the 
Brother and the subprior. 

Abbot John and the monks, intent upon 
seeing, with their own eyes, this terrible 
creature, hurried down the stairs and gained 
the wall of the meadow, where, looking over 
its top, they beheld the magnificent horse 
standing fetlock-deep in the meadow grass. 
Upon this wild scene there arrived, riding 
his pony, the young Squire Loring, small of 
stature, but with muscles of steel and a 
soul of fire; his face, though tanned with the 
weather, was delicate of feature. His whole 
appearance made him a mark for the sight 
of any passer-by, but at the first glance 
the brown face set in its golden hair and 
beard, and the daring light of the quick, 
reckless, laughing eyes, made the one strong 
memory left behind. 

The horse was at the moment trampling 
his latest victim, and Nigel, springing from 
his pony, was over the wall and at battle 
with the creature, proving himself master. 
Some discussion arose among the monks 
as to the killing of the yellow horse, or the 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



SIR NIGEL gs 

giving him to Nigel as a punishment; the 
last suggestion finally won, and Nigel pro- 
ceeded to further subdue the heretofore 
untamable creature called Pommers. 

The horse tried to unseat his rider, but 
Nigel held fast and at last they were over 
the four-foot gate and away. Then took 
place the most notable ride ever known to 
that part of the world, and the author^s 
description recording it is a gem worth 
reading; also it is the key to NigeFs whole 
character. A nearly forgotten ballad upon 
the subject has the following refrain: 

The Doe that sped on Hinde Head, 

The Eestril on the winde, 
And Nigel on the Yellow Horse 

Can leave the world behinde. 

After a long battle of wills the horse was 
broken and conquered; he fell in the heather 
with a sobbing sigh, throwing his rider over 
his head, stunned. The young squire was 
first to recover and, kneeling by the panting, 
overwrought horse, he gently passed his 
hand over the foam-flecked face, and the 
whinnying Pommers thrust his nose into 
the hollow of Nigel's hand. 

"You are my horse, Pommers,'^ Nigel 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



94 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED' 

whispered; and laid his cheek against the 
craning head. ^'I know yoU; Pommers, and 
you know me, and with the help of Saint 
Paul we shall teach some other folk to know 
us both." 

The monks of Waverly Abbey held Nigel 
for debts and wrongs against them and he 
was haled before the Abbot for trial, was 
judged guilty, and sentenced to imprison- 
ment; but when they would have restrained 
him Nigel drew his sword, which angered 
the Abbot, who charged his bowman to 
draw his bow and defend Holy Church and 
her decrees. Tragedy was imminent, when 
Samkin Aylward, a famous archer, came to 
Nigel's rescue, at once attaching himself 
to the young squire's service, and afterward 
following him into many dangers. 

Into the midst now came a man whose 
appearance dominated the scene. This was 
the famous soldier, John Chandos, with a 
message to Nigel Loring. Said Chandos, 
"He who comes to seek the shelter of your 
roof is your liege lord and mine, the Elng's 
high majesty, Edward of England." 

White a guest at Tilf ord Abbey, Chandos's 
stories filled the mind and heart of Nigel 
with a stronger desire than ever for adven- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



SIR NIGEL 95 

turC; and he begged to go as Chaudos's 
squire, under the standards of the King, 
Edward of England, to which Chandos as- 
sented. 

Nigel made his arrangements for leaving 
home; they were few and simple, for he 
had only his Pommers, his loyal Sam Ayl- 
ward, and at last his long-wished-for suit 
of armor and a small amount of gold. 

There was, however, one visit must be 
made before leaving home, and that was to 
see Mary, the daughter of the old Knight of 
Duplin, living in the castle at Cosford. 
Mary of the grave eyes of brown looking 
bravely at the world; the one whom Nigel 
loved. 

At the shrine of St. Catherine, Nigel and 
Mary said their farewells, and the young 
squire vowed to perform three noble deeds 
of valor in her honor ere he came to see 
his Mary again; but that no thought of her 
should stand ^twixt him and this honorable 
achievement. 

Nigel sought constantly for some deed to 
perform and lesser ones came to hand fre- 
quently, but it was not until he was at Win- 
shelsea, with Chandos^ that his first great 
opportunity came. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



96 ONE HUNDRED BEST N0VEI5 CONDENSED 

It was found that the plans of the attack 
upon the French at Calais by the prince's 
anny had been stolen, and it was suspected 
that a cunning, daring Frenchman, called 
the ''Red Ferret/' had taken them and was 
then already on his way across the Channel. 
Nigel started in pursuit with Aylward and 
other followers. After a long chase and a 
hard-fought battle, Nigel caught the Red 
Ferret and saved the English plans; but 
as his enemy was so gallant a man Nigel 
begged his life of the king and so saved him. 
He sent the Ferret to Mary at Cosford, with 
the message that the first deed was accom- 
plished. 

Nigel then stormed the famous castle of 
La Brohinere, where lived the knight called 
the "Butcher of Brohinere," who was said 
never to let a prisoner escape alive from his 
castle. Here, at great risk of his own life, 
Nigel rescued not only his man Sam Aylward 
and other comrades, but a young Frenchman, 
who later, however, died, praising his rescuer. 
Then news of the second deed was sent to 
Mary of Cosford. 

Nigel had followed on with John Chandos 
into Brittany when the third deed was 
found. There had been hot, furious fighting, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



SIR NIGEL 97 

and Nigel, riding Pommers, plunged for- 
ward, unseating and taking captive one of 
the enemy. Having the Frenchman at his 
mercy, Nigel might have killed him at once^ 
or held him for ransom, but he had made a 
gallant fight, and out of admiration and pity 
the young squire spared his life and let him 
go, only to discover later that he had had 
at his mercy none other than Eang John of 
France. 

When the prince heard the story from 
King John himself he exclaimed, "For my 
part, I had rather have the honor this squire 
has gathered than all the richest ransoms 
of France." Whereupon the prince with 
his sword touched NigeFs shoulder as he 
knelt before him, and said, "England has 
lost a brave squire and gained a gallant 
knight! Nay, linger not. Rise up. Sir Nigel." 
And a third message went to Mary. 

Two months later Nigel arrived at Cos- 
ford, and, kissing Mary's welcoming hand, he 
said, "Saint Catherine has brought me 
home!" 

Printed by permisBion of, and arrangement with, Double- 
day, Page & Co., authorized publishers. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



SCOTT 

rr/^ALTER SCOTT was horn in Edinburgh 
^^ an August 15, 1771. His father was a 
lawyer, the first of the Scott line to leave the open 
country for the town. 

For a man who wrote such a prodigious amount, 
Scott was surprisingly late in getting started. He 
was thirty-four years old when his first original 
work appeared, " The Lay of the Last MinstreV 
From that momeni until his death, an September 
SI, 1832, he was, with the possible exception of 
Byron, the most popular writer in English. 

When the public seemed to he tiring of his long 
romances in verse, he turned to noveUwriting, and 
in 1814f when he was forty-three, he came irUo 
his career of greatness with ^^WaverleyJ^ For 
eighteen years novel after novel followed in rapid 
succession, stirring romances of history or colorful 
tales of Scottish life. They were all published 
anonymously until the financial disaster of 1825 
made it seem wise to reveal the author^ s name. 

FuUy a dozen of the Waverley Novels, if not 
more, might he included in any list of one hundred 
novels, and many loyal lovers of Scott would even 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 




SIR WALTER SCOTT 



Digitized by VjOOQLC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



SCOTT 99 

(hen think thai one m inDO more might be added. 
He waSf as Stevenson remarked, ^*{he king of the 
romantics.^* 

''Waverley;' ''Ivanhoe,'' ''The HeaH of Midlo- 
thian,^^ and '' Kenilworth** are representative of 
Scott at his best. But ''Old MortalUy,'' "Quentin 
Durward" "The Talisman,^^ "Guy Mannering,'^ 
"The Fortunes of Nigel,'' "The Antiquary,'' 
"St. Ronan's WeU," "Rob Roy," and, indeed, 
others have all been ranked as favorites among the 
innumerable admirers of (he romances written by 
"the Wizard of the North." 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE HEART OF MIDLOTHIAN 

By SIR WALTER SCOTT 

CondeoBatioii by 
THURMAN L. HOOD 

n^HE Heart of Midlotkiariy by many called 
the finest of the Waverley Novels, was 
published anonymously in 1818. It takes 
its name from the Tolbooth, or old city jail, 
in Edinburgh (pulled down in 1815), the 
"stony hearf of Midlothian, which reared 
its ancient front in the very middle of the 
High Street of the city. 

On the afternoon of September 8, 1736, 
Reuben Butler, assistant-master of the school 
at Libberton, and licensed minister of the 
Gospel, found himself in unexpected trouble. 
First of all, he had become entangled with 
the crowd of good citizens of Edinburgh in 
the Grassmarket, murmuring at the post- 
ponement of the execution of Captain John 
Porteous of the City Guard. They were 
still in the heat of anger from the events 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE HEART OF MIDLOTHIAN 101 

of the preceding day, when Porteous had 
ordered his men to fire, and had fired him- 
self, upon the crowd, some of whom were 
attempting to cut down the body of '' Scotch'^ 
Wilson, the famous smuggler. Several in- 
nocent citizens had been killed. Now that 
the chief offender seemed likely to escape, 
there was no knowing what the mob might 
do. The quiet young pedagogue would 
gladly have returned to Libberton. Then, 
to his consternation, he learned that Effie 
Deans, the younger and more charming 
sister of his sweetheart Jeanie Deans, was 
imprisoned in the Tolbooth. 

When he had last seen Effie, more than a 
year before, she had been a beautiful and 
blooming girl, the lily of St. Leonardos. 
Many a traveler past her father's cottage 
had stopped his horse on the eve of entering 
Edinburgh, to gaze at her as she tripped by 
him, with her milk-pail poised on her head, 
bearing herself so erect, and stepping so 
light and free, under her burden that it 
seemed rather an ornament than an incum- 
brance. Now the poor girl, scarce eighteen 
years of age, lay in the Tolbooth, charged 
with child-murder. 

The facts were that after working for a 

vol*. I. — 9 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



102 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

time in a shop in Edinburgh, the unhappy 
prisoner had disappeared for the space of a 
week, and then made her appearance before 
her sister at St. Leonard's in a state that 
had rendered Jeanie only too certidn of her 
misfortune. But to all questions she had 
remained mute as the grave, xmtil the officers 
of justice had come to apprehend her. 

Before Reuben Butler could see her the 
Tolbooth was closed; and before he could 
escape from the city a crowd of rioters com- 
pelled him to return with them to the jail 
and administer the last rites to Porteous, 
whom they dragged forth to death. 

The leader of the mob, a young man dis- 
guised in woman's clothes, seized a moment 
in the midst of the turmoil in the jail to 
beg Effie to escape. "For God's sake — ^for 
your own sake — for my sake — ^flee, or they'll 
take your life," was all that he had time to 
say. 

The girl gazed after him for a moment, 
and then, faintly muttering, "Better tyne 
life, since tint is gude fame," she sank her 
head upon her hand, and remained, seem- 
ingly, as unconscious as a statue, of the noise 
and tumult which passed around her. 

In the morning, on his way to see Jeanie 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE HEART OF MIDLOTHIAN 103 

and her father at St. Leonard's, Butler en- 
countered in the Kmg's park a young man 
of noble bearing, but strangely agitated, 
who bade him "tell Jeanie Deans that, when 
the moon rises, I shall expect to meet her 
at Nicol Muschat's Cairn, beneath Saint 
Anthony's chapel." 

After attempting in vain to induce Jeanie 
to explain the message, he returned to visit 
Effie again, in the iTolbooth, only to be 
compelled, on his arrival there, to tell the 
whole story, lest he be convicted of guilt 
in the Porteous affair. And then he was 
sent home, xmder bail not to leave Libber- 
ton, nor to communicate with any member 
of the family of Effie Deans. 

But if his experiences were to him incom- 
prehensible, they were by no means so to 
the authorities. By piecing together his 
testimony with that of others, they rightly 
determined that the stranger in the King's 
park, the leader of the Porteous mob, and 
the father of Effie's child were one and the 
same person, namely, Geordie Robertson, 
comrade of Wilson the smuggler, and but 
lately escaped from the very prison in which 
Effie Deans was now confined. Accordingly, 
they planned to capture him that night at 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



104 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

Muschat's Cairn. But before they could 
reach that place^ Robertson had tune to 
beg Jeanie to save her sister at the trial 
by testifying that Eflfie had disclosed to 
her her condition. Then he escaped. 

Merely that slight falsehood would have 
removed the case of Eflfie Deans from xmder 
the letter of the cruel Scotch statute. But 
Jeanie^ steadfastly, devoutly truthful, was 
utterly unable to placate her conscience in 
bearing false witness. Nor could the dis- 
appointment of Effie herself, whom she was 
at last permitted to visit in the strong-room 
of the prison, alter her resolution. "He 
wanted that I suld be manswom,'' she said. 
"I told him that I dauma swear to an 
imtruth.'^ 

At the trial, when Jeanie was brought in 
to testify, Effie, in human weakness, cried, 
"0 Jeanie, Jeanie, save me!" But when 
the solenm oath — "the truth to tell, and no 
truth to conceal, as far as she knew or was 
asked," was administered "in the name of 
God, and as the witness should answer to 
God at the great day of judgment," Jeanie, 
educated in deep reverence for the name of 
the Deity, was elevated above all considera- 
tions save those which she could, with a 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



THE HEART OF MIDLOTHIAN 105 

clear conscience, call Him to witness. And 
when the advocate came at length to the 
point of asking her, "what your sister said 
ailed her when you inquired, '' Jeanie could 
only answer, "Nothing." When the sen- 
tence was pronounced by the Doomsman, 
Eflfie^s own eyes were the only dry ones in 
the court. "God forgive ye, my Lords," 
she said, "and dinna be angry wi' me for 
wishin^ it — ^we a' need forgiveness." 

The next morning found Jeanie Deans 
traveling alone and afoot on the long road 
to London "to see the Queen's face that 
gives grace," and beg for her sister's pardon. 
Her tartan screen served all the purposes 
of a riding-habit, and of an umbrella; a small 
bundle contained such changes of linen 
as were absolutely necessary. She had a 
few guineas, and a letter from Reuben 
Butler to the Duke of Argyle, whose grand- 
father had been under obligations of the 
deepest to the famous Bible Butler, grand- 
father of the poor assistant-schoolmaster, 
now sick at Libberton. 

She passed luckily, on the whole, through 
so weary and dangerous a journey, and at 
length, through the intercession of the duke, 
secured the pardon which she sought. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



106 ONE HUNDRED BEST N0VEI5 CONDENSED 

Before she reached Scotland agam^ Effie 
had eloped with her lover, who was in reality 
George Staxmton, son of an English noble- 
man. The sisters, who had last met when 
Effie was sitting on the bench of the con- 
demned, did not meet again for many years, 
though Lady Staxmton wrote sometimes to 
Jeanie — ^now Mrs. Butler, wife of Mr.Reuben 
Butler, pastor of Kjiocktarlitie. 

Finally, by chance. Sir George learned 
that Meg Murdockson, who had attended 
Effie in her illness, had not murdered the 
child, as they had always supposed. He 
traced the boy to a certain troop of vaga- 
bonds, of which Black Donald was the chief. 
In an affray with Black Donald's men. Sir 
George was shot by a young lad called "the 
Whistler," who proved to be the lost son. 
The lad disappeared and escaped to America. 
Lady Staunton, overcome by the tragedy, 
after vain efforts to drown her grief in 
society, retired to a convent in France. 
Although she took no vows, she remained 
there until her death. But her influence at 
court accomplished much for the children of 
her sister Jeanie, who lived happily on in the 
good parish with which the bounty of the 
Duke of Argyle had provided her husband. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE HEART OF MIDLOTHIAN 107 

The Heart of Midlothian is notable for 
having rather fewer important characters, 
a smaller variety of incidents, and less 
description of scenery than most of Scott's 
novels. One of the most remarkable scenes 
in all fiction is the meeting of the two sisters 
in prison under the eyes of the jailer Rat- 
cliffe. The interview of Jeanie with Queen 
Caroline is also most noteworthy. There is 
much humor at the expense of the Cam- 
eronian wing of the Presbyterian faith in 
Scotland. In this work also appears the 
strange character of Madge Wildfire, daugh- 
ter of the old crone, Meg Murdockson. 
Into her mouth is put the famous song, 
"Proud Maisie is in the wood/* 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ALLEN 

JAMES LANE ALLEN, who has lived much 
^ in New York City since 1886, had the good 
fortune to spend his boyhood in a country of sur^ 
passing loveliness. He was bom on December SI, 
1850, near Lexington, Kentucky, on (he old Alien 
estate, where his faiher settled in (he wilderness 
days. The sheer charm of the blue^ass region 
seems to have woven itself into the nature of the 
boy, who was destined to paint so many exquisite 
wordr^pictures of it. 

Mr. Allen took his hachelor^s and master's de- 
grees in the old Transylvania University, founded 
by Kentucky pioneers. He toas compelled by the 
failure in his father's fortune to begin to teach at 
once, in public and private schools. He later 
became professor in Latin and higher English at 
Bethany College. He never married. In 1886 he 
definitely forsook academic pursuits, went to New 
York City, and devoted himself to wrUing. By 
1918 he had published seventeen books. ^^ Flute 
and Violin,'' a collection of short stories, appeared 
in 1891. ''The White Cowl" has brought many 
pilgrims to its scene, the Abbey of Gethsemane, an 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 




JAMES LANE ALLEN 



Digitized by VjOOQLC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ALLEN 109 

exquisite Jnt of old France, near LouimUe. In 
''Kentucky Cardinal' and ''Aftermath'' {1896- 
96) Mr. Alien first really proved his power. Well 
known among his later hooks are "The Reign of 
Law,'' "The MetOe of the Pasture," and "The 
Bride of the Mistletoe." His novel "The Chair 
Invisible," written in 1897, is perhaps the most 
"vibrant with the passion of beauty and pain" of 
any of his hooks. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE CHOIR INVISIBLE 

By JAMES LANE ALLEN 

Condensation by 
SARA WARE BASSETT 

CEW writers of American fiction are better 
* qualified to present the early history of 
Kentucky than is James Lane Allen^ himself 
a native of the Blue Grass State. 

He chose as his setting for The Choir 
Invisible that picturesque period during 
Washington's administration when the Mis- 
sissippi was just being opened for navigation, 
and great tides of pioneers were migrating 
through the Alleghany highway to settle the 
sparsely populated regions of the West and 
South. 

Lexington, Kentucky, chancing to be 
directly in the path of one tributary of this 
current, received not only many of those 
who were abandoning the cities of the coast 
for the untried territory of a newer land, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE CHOIR INVISIBLE 111 

but also others who, having tested out the 
Utopian Western country and left there 
health, wealth, and dreams of success, were 
returning broken-hearted to the homes from 
which they had come. 

Hence in Lexington one encountered per- 
sons of every class. There were students 
from William and Mary College, voyageurs 
traveling for adventure, traders, the gentler 
bred English colonist from Virginia, home- 
steaders, and even an occasional group of 
friendly Indians. 

It was a heterogeneous populace, high of 
courage and strong of fortitude, that amid 
clearing in forest and canebrake laid the 
foundation of this fine old Southern city; 
a populace not to be daunted by discomfort, 
privation, or unceasing toil. 

The heroes and heroines who thus sacri- 
ficed their lives on the altar of civilization 
have, the author teUs us, long since joined 
"the choir invisible of the immortal dead," 
but they have left behind them a heritage 
that has come down to us through the 
centuries. 

The chief character of the story is John 
Gray, the master in the little log school- 
house, and we have a charming glimpse of 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



112 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

him, "a young fellow of powerful build, 
lean, muscular, wearing simply but with 
gentlemanly care a suit of black which was 
relieved around his wrists and neck by 
linen, snow-white and of the finest quality." 
He had a handsome head covered with 
thick red hair, we are told, and was a man 
of such integrity as to render him a worthy 
descendant "from one of Cromwell's uncon- 
querable, hymn-singing army/' 

We therefore are not surprised to find 
him holding himself aloof from the follies 
of the time, and seeking out the comradeship 
of those to whom the finer and nobler things 
of life appeal. Yet he is very human — a 
creature of anger, passion, and a multitude 
of moods. Moreover, it is quite consistent 
with his character that he should fall in love 
with a woman whom he idealizes. Amy 
Falconer, who "was perhaps the first beauti- 
ful girl of aristocratic birth ever seen in 
Kentucky, and the first of the famous train 
of those who for a hundred years since have 
wrecked or saved the lives of men." She is 
a coquette, vain, shallow, and incapable 
of deep feeling, and she tosses John's love 
aside in a moment of pique for that of 
Joseph Holden; afterward, on discovering 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE CHOIR INVISIBLE 113 

that there is a prospect of John's mheritmg 
a fortune and becoming a person of impor- 
tance, she shamelessly ofiFers to rid herself 
of Joseph and reinstate John in her graces. 

John Gray, however, is not to be so lightly 
dropped and picked up again. The episode 
proves to him that his idol has feet of clay, 
and, with his faith in her shattered, he bids 
her farewell. 

Amy, in the mean time, has made her home 
with her aunt and uncle. Major and Mrs. 
Falconer. Mrs. Falconer stands out against 
a background of high-born Virginian ancestry 
— ^a background of jewels, brocades, fans, 
and satin slippers; of balls and minuets; of 
wide-reaching plantations and slaves. The 
major has been one of those who has heroic- 
ally fought in the Revolution, and to whom 
the Southern beauty out of patriotic grati- 
tude has given her hand, bravely following 
him into the Kentucky wilderness. Unfortu- 
nately, although neither of the pair confesses 
it, the marriage has been an uncongenial 
one. Both, however, are too noble-minded 
to do otherwise than be true to the union 
that holds them together. Yet there is a 
scar of disappointment beneath the surface, 
and in the woman's heart a weariness and 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



114 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

longing that nothing satisfies. During John 
Gray^s visits to her niece Mrs. Falconer has 
become deeply interested in the young 
schoolmaster^ who is about her own age 
and whose tastes she shares. Between them 
a companionship has sprung up which each 
honestly mistakes for friendship. 

Amy's attraction for the man has been an 
untutored impulse of the senses; but Jessica 
Falconer's power over him is one of deep 
spiritual inspiration. 

When he awakens to the discovery that 
in reality it is Mrs. Falconer whom he loves, 
his reverence for her, her purity, and her 
loyalty to her husband all bind him to 
silence. She also loves him, but is in honor 
bound to give him no sign, and hence, with 
their love unspoken, he goes East ostensibly 
to recover the legacy he expects to inherit, 
but determined never to return. 

The lawsuit for his property goes against 
him and he is cast into jail for debt, from 
which ignominy the efforts of friends release 
him. He is a proud man and, wishing to 
pay this debt of gratitude, he proposes to 
marry the daughter of the family that has 
befriended him. Before the marriage, how- 
ever, he teUs his future bride quite frankly 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE CHOIR INVISIBLE 116 

that he loves some one else who is not free, 
and it is with this knowledge that she 
accepts him. While the wedding is in prep- 
aration a letter comes to him from Mrs. 
Falconer annomicing the death of her hus- 
band; and in the silent hope that his fiancee 
will give him his liberty he acquaints her 
with the change in his prospects. We 
gather from the text that the girl is imwilling 
to give him up, and as he is too honorable to 
demand his freedom he carries out his pledge. 

All ignorant of this turn of events, Mrs. 
Falconer in the mean time is so sure of his 
love that she erects in distant Kentucky a 
stately mansion modeled after the home 
of her early youth. She is still in the thirties 
and beautiful, and, deluded into the belief 
that at last her dreams are to be fulfilled, 
she makes ready for her marriage. A paper 
telling of John's union with some one else 
rudely destroys her paradise. Twice she 
has missed the prize of happiness. The 
intense joy of womanhood she is never to 
know. "I shall go softly all my days," she 
murmurs. 

Time sweeps on, but her beauty does not 
fade. She becomes the great lady of the 
Southern settlement and at her home Aaron 

VOL. I. — 10 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



116 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

Burr and many another famous American 
are entertained. More than one man lays 
his fortune at her feet and goes away dis- 
appointed 

There are women who never experience 
the heights and the depths of life. '^Gazing 
deep into their eyes, we are reminded of 
the light of dim churches. They are the 
women who have missed happiness and who 
know it; but, having failed of affection, give 
themselves to duty. It was into the com- 
pany of these quieter pilgrims that she had 



One day long afterward, when she is alone 
in her garden, she sees coming toward her a 
magnificent young fellow at the brink of 
manhood. 

He lifts his hat with courtly gesture. 

"I am John Gray, the son of your old 
friend, and my father sends me to you to 
stay, if you will let me. And he desires me 
to deliver this letter. '* 

"John Gray!'' she cried. "F(m John 
Gray! You! Take off your hat.'' 

For a moment she looked at his forehead 
and his hair; her eyes became blinded with 
tears. She threw her arms around his neck 
with a sob and covered his face with kisses. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE CHOIR INVISIBLE 117 

Alone in the solitude of her bedroom she 
reads the letter. 

John tells her that he loves her, that he 
has always loved her; and that it is the 
fire of this love that through the years has 
kept his ideals aglow. 

''Many a time this candle has gone out; 
but as quickly as I could snatch any torch 
— with your sacred name on my lips — ^it has 
been relighted. 

''If/' he adds, ''I have kept unbroken 
faith with any of mine, thank you. And 
thank God!" 

Thus ends the novel. 

It was an early book of Mr. Allen's, the 
second one he wrote, and it abounds in all 
the charm of olden-time atmosphere and 
in the beauty of description and delicacy 
of feeling so characteristic of his work. 
Historically it gives us a delightful picture 
of Kentucky life in 1795. 



Condenfled from The Choir Invisible, by James Lane Allen. 
Copyright, 1897, by the Macmillan Company. Used by per- 
mission of author and publisher. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



HUGO 

T/^ICTOR MARIE HUGO was horn at Besan^ 
^ ^an, France, on February 25, 1802, so puny 
an infant (hat it was not believed he could live. 
He VKLS the third son of a distinguished soldier 
under Napoleon. He came from sturdy but not 
noble stock, his ancestors on his father^ s side having 
been simple peasants. 

He was well educated f^ Frar^ce and4n%8pairi, 
where his father held high rank ukdl^ Jffapoleon^s 
brother. He was a precocious lad, wtUing long 
plays in verse and prose while hardly Inore than 
a dnld. Before his twenty-first year he had won 
several high prizes for his verse. But, fhrovon on 
his own resources by the death of his mother, he 
found it difficult to live by his pen. He moved into . 
an attic, where he had his only es^perience of actual 
poverty. His writings, however, soon became 
popular and he was able to marry, at the age of 
tv)enty-one, Adele Foucher, his playmate of child- 
hood days. It was a happy marriage for ten years. 
Then Hugo became infatuated with an actress, to 
whom he was devoted fifty years. 

From his youth until his death, on May 22, 1886, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 




/ ■' -y \ 



VICTOR MARIE HUGO 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



HUGO 119 

Hugo wrote rapidly — poemsj plays, and novels. 
No other man of his time had such an international 
repuiation. Svxinbume hailed him as ''the greatest 
man horn since the death of Shakespeare^^ 

His most famous novel, ''Les Mis4rahles,^^ was 
published in 1862, hat he had been working on it 
for fifteen years. Thirty years before had appeared 
his first great prose romance, ''Notre Dame,^^ and 
the third, " Toilers of the Sea,'' came oui in 1865. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



LEs mis6rables 

By VICTOR HUGO 

Condensation by 
NATHAN HASKELL DOLE 

A BOUT the time of the French Revolu- 
^^ tion, Jean Valjean of La Brie, a day- 
laborer, earned a scanty living for his sister 
and her seven children. One time, when the 
family was starving, he stole a loaf of bread, 
was caught and condemned to the galleys 
for five years. Twice he attempted to 
escape and failed. He was a convict for 
nineteen years. When he was discharged 
in 1815 he was wicked, silent, chaste, 
ignorant, and ferocious; his afifectionate 
nature had been poisoned against society. 
But he had taught himself how to read, and 
he had thought. 

Refused shelter or food at tavern or pri- 
vate house, he came to Monsigneur Myriel, 
Bishop of D , in the foot-hills of the Alps. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



LES MIS£RABLES 121 

He was treated like a prince; but in the 
night he stole some of the bishop's silver 
plate^ was caught as he made ofiF^ and was 
brought back to the good bishop, who, with 
a smile, assured the gendarmes that the 
articles were not stolen, but given. Adding 
two silver candlesticks, the bishop said to 
him: ''Take them and become an honest 
man. My brother, you no longer belong 
to evil, but to good. I have bought your soul 
of you. I give it to God." 

As he fled he yielded to one last tempta- 
tion to do wrong; he took from a hurdy- 
gurdy boy a two-franc piece, but almost 
immediately, filled with remorse, he tried 
in vain to find the boy. Two years later a 
stranger, dressed like a working-man, arrived 

at the little city of M sur M . Just 

as he arrived a fire broke out in the Town Hall 
and he rescued two children belonging to the 
captain of the police. This saved him from 
having to show his passport. He made an 
invention and soon became prosperous. He 
built great workshops, endowed a hospital, 
founded schools, paid high wages, and was 
made mayor. 

Employed in his factory was Fantine, a 
girl who had been deserted in Paris by an 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



122 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

unworthy lover. She had left her baby, 
Cosette, with a crafty and hideous pair 
named Thenadier. When it was learned 
that she had an illegitimate child, she was 
discharged without the knowledge of M. 
Madeleine, the benevolent manufacturer, 
and was reduced to such poverty that she 
could not pay the Thenadiers, who took 
Cosette's clothes for their own girls and 
wrote Fantine for more. The girl sold her 
beautiful blond hair; then they informed 
her that Cosette was ill, which was a lie, and 
demanded one hundred francs. To obtain 
this she sold her front teeth to a traveling 
dentist; then she went on the town, and 
when a dissolute dandy, to annoy her, put 
snow down her back, she scratched his face 
and was arrested by Javert, inspector of 
police, a brutal and over-officious tyrant, 
who had beai attached to the galleys when 
Jean Valjean was there and suspected the 

mayor of M of being the former convict. 

The mayor freed Fantine. She supposed 
he was the cause of her misfortunes and 
spat in his face. He took the affront meekly 
and investigated her complaint. She was ill 
of consumption and he provided for her and 
promised to look out for her child. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



LES MISfiRABLES 123 

About the same time the police arrested 
another man who three former convicts 
swore was the missing Jean Valjean. Jean 
Valjean's conscience would not allow an 
innocent person to be pimished in his place. 
Surmounting extraordinary difficulties, he 
went to Arras, where the trial took place, 
and just as the judge was condenming the 
wrong man, he confessed he was the missing 
convict that had robbed the bishop and the 
hurdy-gurdy boy. 

The judge let him go; but Javert was 
implacable and apprehended him at Fan- 
tine's death-bed. He was lodged in jail, 
but, having enormous strength, he broke out 
and returned to his house to secure his great 
fortune. He had time to hide his money 
in the haunted forest of Montfermeil, but 
was captured once more and sent to the 
galleys for life. 

Nine months later at Toulon he broke 
his chain and saved the life of a sailor who 
was hanging head down from the topmast 
of a ship, but he himself either fell or jumped 
off from the spar and was reported drowned. 
The battle of Waterloo had taken place 
and the Thenadiers, who had been guilty 
of robbing the dead on the fatal field, kept 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



124 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

a wretched inn at Montfermeil. They 
treated Cosette, now eight years old, with 
great cruelty. Christmas, 1823, was the 
climax of her wretchedness; she was sent 
after dark to fetch water from a spring in 
the dreadful forest. A poorly dressed 
stranger, passing, carried her heavy bucket. 
At the tavern he protected her from her 
mistress's threatened punishment, and the 
next morning he paid Thenadier one thousand 
five hundred francs and took Cosette to 
Paris, where he occupied a tumble-down 
habitation just outside of the city, the 
gloomiest place in all the gloomy boulevard. 
By day ugly, at twilight lugubrious, and at 
night sinister. He thought himself secure 
there, but his benevolence made him con- 
spicuous, and the old caretaker, being full 
of envy and uncharitableness, grew sus- 
picious of her lodger. 

One day he saw Javert. He took Cosette 
and again fled. But Javert was on his track. 
Only by unexampled adroitness and by his 
colossal strength did he escape by climbing 
over a high wall. He found himself in the 
garden of the convent of the Petit Picpus, 
where worked Pfere Fauchelevent, whose 
life M. Madeleine had saved when he was 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



LES MISfiRABLES 125 

mayor of M . The gardener, out of grati- 
tude, got him appointed his assistant by- 
representing him to be his brother, Cosette 
was taken into the convent school. She 
grew up into a charming girl; beauty sud- 
denly came to her like the blossoms to a 
cherry-tree in April, and Jean Valjean, 
happy in loving her as his daughter, as his 
granddaughter, as the only woman he had 
ever loved, guarded her as a sacred treasure. 

He had good reason to be wary, for the 
Thenadiers had come to Paris and joined a 
band of robbers, and Javert never forgot. 
He had several desperate encounters with 
them. On the one side outlaws; on the other 
undeviating law personified. He took part 
in the abortive revolution of 1830 and saved 
Javert's life, at last winning the admiration 
of that implacable and fatally honorable 
man. 

But there was one danger from which he 
could not protect Cosette: the most beauti- 
ful thing in the world, which nevertheless 
seemed to him his worst enemy — ^love. 

Baron Marius, the son of a man whom 
Thenadier had robbed at Waterloo and had 
incidentally saved from a terrible death, 
had been turned out of his house by his 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



126 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

royalist grandfather and was earning a poor 
livelihood by literature. He saw her and 
they met. Their love went through more 
than the usual vicissitudes. During the 
insiurection Jean Valjean carried the youth 
through the mazes of the Paris sewers and 
brought him, desperately wounded, to his 
grandfather's house. The old man relented 
and consented to the marriage. Jean Val- 
jean gave Cosette a dowry of about six 
hundred thousand francs. In order to have 
a conscience perfectly clear he told his life 
story to Marius, who, not imderstanding the 
grandeur of the spirit that had never done 
anything but good, allowed him to go away 
with a broken heart. Thenadier, however^ 
came to the baron to blackmail him and 
imconsciously revealed what a noble life 
Jean Valjean had led. Marius, taking Co* 
sette, hastened to the old man's death-bed, 
and gave him one last taste from the cup of 
happiness. He died in their arms. 

Victor Hugo calls Les Miserables "a drama 
in which the hero is the Infinite, the second 
character is Man.'' It is in reality a melo- 
drama in which are mingled scenes of history, 
a host of characters from the highest to the 
lowest, improbabilities which strain one's 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



LES MIS£RABLES 127 

credulity^ a vast amount of rare and curious 
information on all sorts of subjects, dis- 
sertations on philosophy, science, politics, 
and religion. Its treatment of social in- 
justice had a powerful influence on public 
opinion, not only in France, but in many 
other countries. It has been an epoch- 
making book. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



DEFOE 

r\ANIEL DEFOE was horn in London about 
-'^ 1660. After a life of varied and brilliant activ- 
ity, he died, a homeless fugitive, in Ropemakers^ 
AUey, Moorfieldsj on April 26, 17S1. His father, 
a butcher, educated Daniel for (he dissenting minis- 
try, but the boy^s unremitting energy led him to be 
a trader, a political intriguer, and an indefatigable 
journalist. 

He rose to great intimacy vrUh King WiUiam III, 
and abruptly fell to pillory and prison for his too 
perfect satire, " The Shortest Way wiffi Dissenters." 
From Newgate he launched his remarkable ^^ Re- 
view," a journal written entirely by himself. He ad- 
vocated an income tax and higher educcUion for 
women. He wrote two hundred and fifty distinct 
pamphlets and books, but his masterpiece, ^^ Robin- 
son Crusoe," was not published until 1719, when 
the author was nearly sixty years old. This, the 
first great English novel, has in some respects never 
been surpassed. Its immediate popularity incited 
Defoe to write a sequel and many thrilling tales of 
pirates and adventurers, of courtezans and adven- 
turesses. His vivid story of the plagus appeared 
three years after ^^ Robinson Crusoe." 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 




DANIEL DEFOE 



Digitized by VjOOQLC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



DEFOE 12» 

^^Defoe VKLS perhaps the greatest liar (hat ever 
lived. Yet if we go deep into his rich and strangely 
mixed nature, we come upon stubborn foundations 
of consciences^ Whatever the ultimate judgment 
of his honesty, *^ Robinson Crusoe^^ lives immortally 
to attest his genius in invention. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 

By DANIEL DEFOE 

Condensation by 
JAMES B. CONNOLLY 

AA Y father designed me for the law, but 
-^ '^ * I would be satisfied only with going to 
sea, and being one day at Hull and one of 
my companions about to go by sea to Lon- 
don in his father's ship, nothing would 
serve me but I must go with him — ^this on 
September 8, 1651, and I being then nine- 
teen years of age. 

The ship was no sooner out of port than 
the wind began to blow and the sea to rise 
in the most frightful manner, which made me 
most terribly sick in body and frightened 
in mind. In my agony I vowed that if 
God would spare me through this one voyage 
I would go, inmiediately I set foot on land, 
directly home to my good parents and be 
ever after guided in my conduct by their 
advice. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 131 

But next day the wind was abated and 
the sea cahner^ and the sun went down to a 
perfectly fine evening, and when to that was 
added a bowl of punch made by a shipmate, 
I forgot my resolution to return home after 
the voyage; and such has been my habit, to 
my great misfortime, all my life — ^to disavow 
in the hour of peril the headstrong actions 
which have brought me to peril, and when 
the danger is past to forget all vows and 
plunge headlong once more on my heedless 
courses. 

Various were my adventures after that first 
tempestuous voyage. Trading to Guinea 
in Africa, I was captured by a Turkish 
rover and sold into slavery, from whence 
after many perils I escaped to the Brazils, 
where I set myself up for a sugar-planter 
and was enjoying a fine prosperity thereat, 
when I fell a victim to temptation. Help 
being scarce in the Brazils and some planters 
there knowing that I had traded with the 
slave coasts of Africa, they beguiled me 
into a voyage to those parts with the intent 
to secure slave labor for our plantations. 

Only evil does ever come of evil counsel. 
Our ship was wrecked on an unknown 
island oS the northeast coast of South 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



132 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

America; and of all the ship's company I 
alone, by the blessing of God, was allowed 
to escape through the high surf to the shore. 
All I possessed at the time was a knife, a 
pipe, and a little tobacco in a box. Walk- 
ing along the shore, when I had recovered 
sufficiently in strength so to walk, I found 
fresh water, a great joy. Having drunk and 
put a little tobacco against the hunger in 
my mouth, I took up my lod^g in a tree 
and did there sleep, to my great refreshment, 
throughout the night. 

Next morning the weather was clear and 
the sea mild, but what pleased me most 
was the sight of the ship, which, as the tide 
ebbed, lay so close to the shore that I found 
no trouble in swimming out to it. No living 
thing except a dog and two cats was left 
on the ship; but there was a store of neces- 
sities, and such I took, building a raft for the 
purpose of transporting them to an inlet 
in the island where was fresh water and a 
flat, high place for my habitation. Bread, 
rice, barley and com, cheese and dried goat's 
flesh, some sugar, flour, planks, spars, rope — 
all these with muskets, two pistols, fowling- 
pieces, a store of lead and powder, two saws, 
an ax, a hammer, and — ^which was the 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



EOBINSON CRUSOE 133 

least use of all — ^thirty-six pounds sterling. 
All these I piloted from day to day between 
tides from ship to shore. On the night of the 
thirteenth day, my work of transportation 
being done, I lay down in my usual fear 
of wild beasts, but also of thankfulness in the 
knowledge that I was prepared for some time 
to come against the barrenness of this island. 

There were wild fruit trees on the island, 
but it was many days before I discovered 
them. There were also goats running wild, 
but without the firearms and ammimition 
I had brought from the ship, of what avail 
were they to me? So I had reason to be 
thankful for the good Providence which 
held the ship to the shore until I had taken 
off all that was of use to me. 

There was much to be done if I were to 
secure my existence on this strange island. 
The needful things I did as best I could in 
turn, but not always with good fortune 
attending my efforts. In my first planting 
of barley and com seed, the half of all my 
precious stock was wasted by reason of 
being planted in the very wrong time. I 
spent weary months in making earthware 
pots for holding fresh water; and forty-two 
days it took me to hew my first long plank 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



134 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

from a tree trunk. I strove for weeks to 
fashion a stone mortar to stamp grain in^ 
only to come at last to a block of hollowed- 
out wood. Five months I labored in felling 
a great cedar-tree^ hewing and shaping it to 
the hull of a splendid boat with which I was 
to escape from the island, only to be forced 
to abandon it for want of a means whereby 
to launch it into the sea. However, every 
failure taught me something I had not 
known before. 

For the elements, there were great winds 
and rains and earthquakes. But I became 
used in time to all things. I planted and 
harvested my crops of barley and com; 
I plucked my wild grapes and dried them 
into nourishing raisins; I raised and killed 
and smoked and salted my tame goats, 
being thus for variety of food not so badly 
served. And so through the twelve years 
during which I saw no sign of human exist- 
ence on the island other than my own, imtil 
that eventful day on which I met with the 
print of a man's naked foot on the sand. 

I was then like one thimderstruck. I 
listened, I looked, but I could hear .nothing, 
see nothing. I went up the shore, down the 
shore; but there was only that single foot- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 135 

print! Terrified to the last degree, I rspii 
to my habitation like one pursued; and for 
three days and nights thereafter I did not 
stir out. 

What a commentary on the fear of man 
for man! After twelve years of pain and 
labor, twelve years of warring against the 
elements, to be thrown into terror by the 
imprint of a human foot! But so it was. 

After observation I learned that it was 
the habit of cannibals from the mainland 
to come to a part of the island which I 
seldom visited to feast upon the bodies of 
their captured enemies. One morning from 
my lookout I perceived thirty savages 
dancing around a fire. They had cooked 
one victim and had two more ready for the 
fire, when I descended upon them with two 
loaded muskets and my great sword, and 
was in time to save one which they had not 
yet eaten. The saved man I called Friday, 
in honor of the day of his rescue, and his 
was the first voice I heard in all my twenty- 
five years on the island. He was young, 
intelligent, of a superior race of savages, and 
became my trusted companion for all the 
time I remained on the island. 

What Friday told me of the mainland. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



136 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

after I had taught him some English, 
decided me to leave my island. We built a 
boat, this time not too far from the sea for 
launching, and were almost ready to set 
sail when twenty-one savages in three canoes 
landed on the island with three prisoners 
for a feast. One of the prisoners was a 
white man, which enraged me. I double- 
charged two fowling-pieces, four muskets, 
two pistols, and, giving Friday a hatchet 
and also a great dram of rum, and myself my 
great sword, we descended and killed all 
but four of the savages. 

One of the prisoners was Friday's father. 
The white man was a Spaniard, a survivor 
from a ship of which I had seen the wrecked 
hull on my island some years before this, 
and from which I had taken some one 
thousand two hundred pieces of gold, but 
of which I made small account because of its 
being of less value to me than so much 
sand of the beach. 

The Spaniard and Friday's father I sent 
with firearms and food in my new boat to 
bring back the wrecked crew of the Spanish 
ship. While waiting for their return an 
English ship with a mutinous crew put 
into my island. I helped the captain recover 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



ROBINSON CRUSOE 137 

his ship and took passage with him for 
England, leaving on the island the most 
mutinous members, with two honest ones 
who wished also to remain. Later, my 
Spaniards returned and all settled together 
on the island, having their dissensions at 
first, but settling down finally into a flourish- 
ing colony, which some years later it was 
my happiness to visit. 

After twenty-eight years two months and 
nineteen days I left my island. I anticipated 
much joy of my arrival in England, but I 
was like a stranger there. My mother and 
father were both dead, which was unfor- 
tunate, as I could have been of great service 
to them; for besides the one thousand two 
hundred pieces of gold from the Spanish ship, 
there was ten thousand pounds sterling 
awaiting me from an honest friend, a Portu- 
guese captain to whom I had intrusted my 
estate in the Brazils before setting forth 
on the ill-fated errand which threw me for 
twenty-eight years on my island. So pleased 
was I with his honesty that I settled one 
hundred moidures a year on him and fifty 
moidures a year on his son, both for life. 

I married and begot three children, and 
except for the one voyage to the old island. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



138 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

of which I have spoken, I roamed no more. 
So here I am, having lived a life of infinite 
variety for twenty-nine years, blessed with 
more than I deserve and resolved to pre- 
pare now for the longest journey of all. If 
I have learned anything, it is a knowledge 
of the value of retirement and the blessing 
of ending our days in peace. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 




SHEHERAZADE 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



SHEHERAZADE 

nnUE marvelous tales that Sheherazade told to 
-^ King Shahriar, stories of love and adventure 
and mad nuigic, cannot he aUribiUed to any one 
author, for the very good reason that (here never 
was an author. They are popular stories that, per- 
haps dboui the year 1450, were put into the present 
form hy a professional story-teUer, presumably a 
Persian. 

In primitive communities, where few of the peo- 
ple can read and where books are difficuU to get, 
these professional readers are in great demand. 
They pick up here and there tales that appeal to 
all and hind them into a long narrative. Some 
people have thought that Homer^s long poems 
originated in this way. 

Everywhere in the near East the traveler finds 
these story-tellers to-day. An eager audience col- 
lects to hear them, each paying a small fee for the 
privilege of listening. The entertainer declaims 
as he ivaJJcs to and fro and always stops his nar- 
rative just hefore an exciting climax, so that he 
wiU he assured of listeners on the morrow. His 
audience foUows his recital with breathless interest, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



140 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

especiaUy when he iUustratea VinUing episodes 
wiOh lively pantomime. 

Year after year these groups of listeners gathered 
centuries ago. The story-teUer discarded the tales 
that did not hold (he attention of his listeners. 
Gradually the process of elimination went on until 
only the test were handed down hy word of mouth 
from generation to generaiion. Then some urtn 
known benefactor of mankind had them written 
down and connected (hem vrith the framework of 
Sheherazade and Shahriar. And ihese are (he 
^^ Arabian Nights^^ (hat have delighted children and 
grown men and women for decades. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE ARABIAN NIGHTS 

By THE PRINCESS SHEHERAZADE 

Condensation by 
ALFRED S. CLARK 

CHEHERAZADE was a vizier's daughter 
- and when she besought her father to 
wed her to King Shahriar it was cause for 
grief to the vizier. For each day was it 
Shahriar's wont to put to death his bride 
of the day before. It befell, however, that 
Sheherazade had her will. As she had hoped, 
the king was wakeful and to beguile him 
she began a story of magic. Dawn broke 
before she had finished, and so eager was 
Shahriar to hear it all that he gave no order 
for her execution. 

For a thousand and one nights did this 
befaU while Sheherazade told tales of love, 
war, and sorcery, of kings, beggars, and 
rogues, of lands where diamonds were more 
plentiful than pebbles and bigger than eggs, 

VOL. I. — 12 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



142 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

of intrigues in the lanes and bazaars of 
Oriental cities. In towns and deserts and 
far islands did necromancers work their wills. 
Horses flew; dogs talked; mermaidens and 
creatures greater than whales peopled the 
deeps; ogres and enormous apes crept out 
of forests; birds so great that their wings 
darkened the day swooped from the skies. 
Here too were lovers in palaces and hovels, 
bold and cowardly, yet all so enamoured 
that they swooned at the very thought of the 
beloved. Underlying all was the colorful 
Orient, with barbers and porters jostlmg 
caliphs and princesses in the thronged and 
picturesque lanes of three cities whose very 
names conjure up romance — ^Bagdad, Cairo, 
and Damascus. 

Now these are the best liked of Shehera- 
zade's tales: 

THE STORY OP ALADDI^'s LAMP 

Of Aladdin, son of a poor tailor in China, 
a prankish scamp. An African magician 
guided him to a subterranean cave where 
he found the lamp that summoned the genie. 
Out of nothingness did this genie spread 
banquets for Aladdin and robe him in rich 
raiment. He provided him retinues of slaves, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE ARABIAN NIGHTS 143 

bearing basins heaped high with precious 
stones, who carried to the king Aladdin's 
suppliance for the hand of the beautiful 
Princess Badroulboudour. In a night did 
the genie raise a palace of glowing wonders, 
of shining marble and gold and silver, with 
windows incrusted with diamonds, emeralds, 
and rubies, with fragrant gardens and open 
courts. So Aladdin married the princess 
and they knew great joy. But the magician 
returned, stole the lamp, and in a trice 
transported the palace and the princess to 
Africa. Then was Aladdin woeful, but by 
magic he found his beloved, poisoned the 
magician, seized the lamp, and came to 
China, where he and Badroulboudour lived 
happily ever afterward. 

THE STORY OF SINBAD 

Of Sinbad the sailor and his marvelous 
voyages. Wherein it is related that Sinbad 
landed upon what seemed an island, but 
which was a great fish that sank into the 
sea. And of other voyages and greater 
wonders, of which one marvels most at the 
adventure with the roc, the bird so huge 
that it feeds its young with elephants. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



144 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

Sinbad had fastened himself to the roc's leg 
and it bore him to an impenetrable valley 
strewn with precious stones, from which he 
escaped by binding himself to a sheep's 
carcass and was borne away by a vulture. 
And of the giant who roasted men ^nd whom 
Sinbad blinded with a red-hot iron. And 
of the terrible Old Man of the Sea who sat 
upon Sinbad's shoulders and could not be 
shaken off until he was intoxicated with 
wine and Sinbad slew him. 

THE STORY OF THE FORTY THIEVES 

Of Ali Baba and his discovery of the stone 
that swung wide when a voice cried "Open, 
Sesame!" In the cave was the booty of 
forty thieves and Ali Baba took home sacks 
bulging with gold and silver. The robbers 
traced him, and in the guise of a merchant 
the captain lodged with him. In the yard 
were stored great jars, one filled with oil 
and the others concealing the thieves. Ill 
would it have fared with Ali Baba had not 
Morgiana, a cunning slave, detected the 
trick and with boiling oil scalded to death 
the wicked miscreants. The captain escaped, 
but returned in a new disguise, and again 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE ARABIAN NIGHTS 145 

did Morgiana save her master by stabbing 
his enemy. So Ali Baba married her to his 
son and he lived joyously upon treasures 
from the cave. 

MANY OTHER FASCINATING STORIES 

Of the Magic Horse of ebony and ivory, 
so fashioned that its rider, by pressing divers 
buttons, could fly whither he willed. It 
bore a Persian prince to a great palace in a 
metropolis girt about with greenery. There 
he looked into the eyes of a princess and 
they were enraptured. It befell that they 
rode away on the Magic Horse, but before 
they were wed an evil man abducted the 
princess. The disconsolate prince wandered 
far and at last he found her whom he loved, 
and again they journeyed through the air 
to his home, where they were married with 
exceeding pomp and lived happily. 

Of a poor fisherman who drew his net 
from the sea and found therein but a brass 
bottle. He cut open the top and there 
streamed forth a cloud of smoke. It col- 
lected, and, behold! it was a genie, so huge 
that his head was in the clouds. He would 
have killed his rescuer had not the wily 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



146 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

fishennan insisted that never could he have 
come from the bottle. The silly genie 
squeezed himself inside, whereupon the fish- 
erman clapped on the top, nor would he 
remove it until the genie swore to serve him 
faithfully. This oath it was that led to the 
finding of the ensorcelled prince with legs 
turned to stone and the lake wherein swam 
fish of four colors that had once been men. 
After marvelous happenings, the prince was 
made as other men and the fish were men 
and women. And the fisherman was so 
rewarded that he was the wealthiest man 
of his time. 

Of Prince Camaralzaman and the Princess 
Badoura, beautiful beyond compare, and of 
how each saw the other in sleep and was 
smitten with great love. But when they 
awakened they saw not each other, for 
they had been brought togetlier by genii 
who had carried Badoura out of China to the 
confines of Persia. Grief so afflicted both 
that they sickened and were insane from 
sorrow. Then a messenger from Badoura 
journeyed far over land and sea until he 
found Camaralzaman and returned with 
him to China, where the lovers were wedded. 
But while they were traveling to Camaral- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE ARABIAN NIGHTS 147 

zamapii's land he wandered away. Badoura 
dressed herself in his raiment and passed 
herself for a man. It befell that she found 
favor in the eyes of a kmg and was married 
to a princess. And Camaralzaman too came 
to this land and knew not his wife^ who 
heaped honors upon him. At last she re- 
vealed herself and was known as a woman 
and Camaralzaman took also to wife the 
princess whom Badoura had married and 
they were happy together. 

Of a merchant who^ awaiting death at the 
hands of a cruel genie^ was joined by three 
old men^ one leading a gazelle, another two 
black hounds, and the third a mule. Now 
it is related that the gazelle and the mule 
had been wicked wives transformed by magic, 
and likewise had the hounds been evil 
brothers. When the genie was told these 
stories of enchantment, Jie was so diverted 
that he spared the merchant's life. 

ABOUT HARUN-AL-RASHID 

And of many tales concerning the Caliph 
Harun-al-Rashid and his going disguised 
into the lanes and bazaars of Bagdad, where 
he chanced upon strange people who told 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



148 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

him strange stories of magic. Once he 
supped with three ladies of dazzling beauty^ 
and with him were a porter dazed with the 
magnificence he saw^ and three mendicants^ 
sons of kings, all blind in the left eye. Not 
knowing the caliph, they told of their fan- 
tastic adventures and sufferings and he 
rewarded them. And again he encoimtered 
a beggar who implored him to strike him, 
a youth who spurred cruelly a mare upon 
which he rode, and a rope-maker who had 
risen suddenly from poverty to aflBiuence. 
Their tales, too, did he hear and them, too, 
did he reward. Nor should Abou-Hassan 
the Wag be forgotten, whose trickery in 
pretending that he and his wife were dead 
won so much gold and so many laughs from 
the caliph. And of like import is the mad 
tale of the humpback who seemed dead 
and of the talkative barber who restored 
him to life, of all those who had believed 
themselves murderers of the humpback and 
of the amazing tales that they related. 

So it came to pass that by the end of the 
thousand and one nights Shahriar so de- 
lighted in the cleverness of Sheherazade that 
he wedded her again with regal pomp and 
they lived happily ever after. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 




ANTHONY HOPE 



Digitized by VjOOQLC 



HOPE 

jfNTHONY HOPE, knoum cndmie the world 
-^^ of hooks 08 Sir Anthony Hope HawkinSf 
was horn in London, February 9, 1863, the son of 
d clergyman. He married an American woman. 
It is to be hoped he may have many more children 
of ihe brain to follow in the footsteps of *^The 
Prisoner of Zenda^^ and *^The DoUy DialoguesJ^ 

He was educated at Marlborough, and at BaUiol 
College, Oxford, where he took honors in letters and 
was president of ihe Oxford Union, which means 
that he was already a man of mark in his under- 
graduate days. By way of a profession he became 
a barrister of the Middle Temple in 1887. But if 
the pursuit of ihe law interferes with ihe production 
of a thriUing tale, may he never have a case to 
prepare. 

His first book was " The Prisoner of Zenda,^^ 
which has probably remained his best-knovm one. 
It had a large hearing when turned to the stage, and 
the public demanded a sequel, which came in 
^^ Rupert of HentzauJ* After Zenda quickly fol- 
lowed " The DoUy Dialogues,^^ which, by their easy 
and debonair grace, inevitably suggest Lawrence 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



150 ONE HUNDRED BEST N0VEI5 CONDENSED 

Sterne. Hie hooks have been numerous^ as *^The 
King's Mirror*^ and '^Tristam of Blent j^ and he 
has written plays as weU, as ^^The Adventure of 
Lady UrsuUiJ' A touch of sureness and precision 
lend distinction to his prose; he has an unu>su4il 
power of interesting his readers in his personages 
and their doings. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE PRISONER OF ZENDA 

By ANTHONY HOPE 

Condensation by 
PROF. WILLIAM FENWICK HARRIS 

pURITANIA was not England, or the 
^^ quarrel between Duke Michael and 
Rudolf Rassendyll could not have gone on, 
with the remarkable incidents which marked 
it, without more public notice being directed 
to it. It is perhaps as strange a thing as 
has ever been in the history of a coimtry 
that the king's brother and the king's per- 
sonator, in a time of profoimd peace, near a 
placid, imdisturbed country town, under 
semblance of amity, should wage a desperate 
war for the person and life of the king. 

Yet there was the struggle between Black 
Michael and Rudolf Rassendyll, both of 
the royal house of Elphberg, but of very 
differing antecedents. The one was well 
known to the royal palace at Strelsau; the 
other was at home at No. 305 Park Lane, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



162 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

London, West. The kinship between the 
two was quite an accident^ dating from the 
year 1733, when a dashing young prince, 
later known to fame as Rudolf the Third of 
Ruritania, paid a visit to London. There 
he was courteously entertained and was a 
great favorite with the ladies, especially 
Amelia, Countess of Burlesdon, and Baroness 
Rassendyll. In the end the prince left 
England rather hastily imder a cloud, but 
not before he had fought a somewhat san- 
guinary duel with Countess Amelia's hus- 
band. In the years since there have ap- 
peared at intervals in the family of the 
Rassendylls certain sons who have been 
marked by the long, sharp, straight nose 
and the dark-red hair of the royal house of 
Ruritania. 

The years pass, many of them, and another 
Rudolf of Elphberg is about to be crowned 
King of Ruritania. The same nose, the 
same red hair distinguish him. The loyal 
half of the population of Ruritania could 
not sleep at night till the coronation was 
safely over. For the late king had left 
another son, by a second and morganatic 
marriage. Black Michael, Duke of Strelsau 
and Lord of Zenda. Though Michael bore 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE PRISONER OF ZENDA 153 

none of the marks of the Elphbergs, he had 
been his father's favorite, and he cast a 
longing eye on the throne; all the cut- 
throats and blackguards of Ruritania 
seconded his wish, for Michael was a man 
after their own hearts. 

Curious that yoimg Rudolf Rassendyll 
should be moved by an idle curiosity to 
witness the coronation of Rudolf of Ruri- 
tania; still more curious that he, too, should 
bear the familiar nose, the same red hair. 
So thought Colonel Sapt, aide to the king, 
and Fritz von Tarlenheim, his close friend, 
as they came upon the yoimg Englishman 
in the forest of Zenda, making his way afoot 
to Strelsau. So, too, thought the king 
when he appeared a moment later. But 
scandals of the past can no more be con- 
cealed in Ruritania than in England. As 
yoimg Rassendyll later told the tale, first 
the king frowned, "then gradually the cor- 
ners of his mouth began to twitch, his nose 
came down (as mine does when I laugh), 
his eyes twinkled, and, behold, he burst 
into the merriest fit of irrepressible laughter, 
which rang through the woods and pro- 
claimed him a jovial soul. 

"'Well met, cousin!' he cried, stepping 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



154 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

up to me, clapping me on the back, and 
laughing still. 'You must forgive me if I 
was taken aback. A man doesn't expect* 
to see double at this time of day. Eh, Fritz? ' 

"'I must pray pardon, sire, for my pre- 
sumption,' said I. 'I trust it will not forfeit 
your Majesty's favor.' 

"'By heaven! you'll always enjoy the 
king's coimtenance,' he laughed, 'whether 
I like it or not.'" 

All the good-fellowship in the world, 
however, could not permit royal scandals 
of the past to be raked up at a coronation. 
Rudolf Rassendyll must not show his face 
at this moment in the capital of Rudolf of 
Ruritania. "But by thunder," cried the 
king, "you sha'n't leave Ruritania to-day. 
For you shaU dine with me to-night, happen 
what will afterward." 

That was just the trouble, "happen what 
will afterward." One bottle led to another, 
until they were all as full of wine as they 
had any right to be. At last the king set 
down his glass and leaned back in his chair. 

"'I have drunk enough,' said he. 

"'Far be it from me to contradict the 
king,' said I. Indeed, his remark was most 
absolutely true — ^so far as it went." But 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE PRISONER OF ZENDA 166 

still another bottle! — ^this from Black Mi- 
chael^ praying that he drink for the love that 
he bears his brother. Could the king refuse? 
He could not. Was the wine drugged? The 
mommg answered yes. 

"'K he's not crowned to-day/ cried Sapt, 
'I'll lay a crown he's never crowned.' 

" ' By heavens, why? ' 

"'The whole nation's there to meet him; 
half the army — ^aye, and Black Michael 
at the head. Shall we send word that the 
king's drunk?' 

"'That he's ill/ said I, in correction. 

"'111!' echoed Sapt, with a scornful laugh. 
'They know his illness too well. He's been 
ill before! As a man grows old he believes 
in Fate. Fate sent you here. Fate sends 
you now toStrelsau. You'll go?' 

"'Yes, I'll go,' said I, and I turned my 
eyes on the prostrate figure of the king. 

"'To-night,' Sapt went on in a hasty 
whisper, 'we are to lodge in the palace. 
The moment they leave us you and I will 
moimt our horses and ride here at a gallop. 
The king will be ready, and he must ride 
back wi^ me to Strelsau, and you ride as 
if the devil were behind you to the frontier.' " 

So began those wondrous days of adven- 



VOL. I. — 13 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



156 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CX)NDENSED 

ture which saw the throne of Ruritania 
occupied by an Elphberg with all the traces 
of the stocky though not ''of the blood/' 
"The play actor/' Rupert of Hentzau called 
him, when he came to know the secret, 
but ''as good an Elphberg as ever sat upon 
it/' declared Sapt at the end. 

The wild ride to Strelsau, with Sapt in- 
structing the English Rudolf most minutely 
in his past life, his family, his tastes, pur- 
suits, weaknesses, friends, companions, and 
servants — as Ruritania knew them — ^the eti- 
quette of the court, what would be expected 
at the coronation — and above all of the 
Princess Flavia. 

"God save the kingl" cried the people 
after ihe coronation had been safely managed. 

"God save 'em both!" whispered Sapt, 
as his mouth wrinkled into a smile. 

But if things went well at Strelsau with 
Rudolf Rassendyll, now crowned as Rudolf 
the Fifth of Ruritania and the accepted 
lover of the Princess Flavia, fortune did 
not smile on the other Rudolf at Zenda. 
For Black Michael had had word from there 
that cleared for him the mystery of the 
coronation. Riding as fast as horses could 
lay feet to the ground, he seized poor Rudolf 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



3) 

ia 



THE PRISONER OF ZENDA 167 

of Ruritania and held him prisoner. But 
then ensued a pretty pass. 

"Aye, but he can't speak," roared Sapt 
in grim triumph. "WeVe got him. How 
can he denoimce you without denouncing 
himself? 'This is not the king, because 
we have kidnapped the king and murdered 
his servant.' Can he say thatt Hang me 
if Michael won't expose himself , if he tries 
to expose you." 

But the most difficult situation for a 
loyal gentleman — and that was Rudolf Ras- 
sendyll — ^arose from the Princess Flavia. 
"I had to keep the princess devoted to me — 
and yet indifferent to me; I had to show 
affection for her — ^and not feel it. I had 
to make love for another; and that to a 
girl who — princess or no princess — ^was the 
most beautiful I had ever seen. How I 
succeeded in carrying out my program 
will appear hereafter." 

How they fell in love, he with her and she 
with him, is part of the story. And how, 
forgetting self, he rescued the king, and 
robbed himself of love and throne and 
almost life. When he had fallen sorely 
wounded: 

"Fritz," he caUed, "is the king stiU alive? " 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



168 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

"Aye, friend — dear friend/' said he, ten- 
der as a woman; "thanks to the most gallant 
gentleman that lives, the king is alive 1'' 

All's well that ends well. But of the 
Princess Flavia? 

"If I can never hold sweet converse again 
with her, or look upon her face, or know 
from her her love, why, then, this side the 
grave I will live as becomes the man she 
loves; and for the other side I must pray a 
dreamless sleep/' 

Printed by permission of, and arrangement with, Henry 
Holt & Co., authorized publishers. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 




ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON 



Digitized by VjOOQLC 



STEVENSON 

nOBERT LOUIS STEVENSON was ham 
^^ of cvUured parents, November 13, 1850, in 
Edinburgh. From infancy his health was delicate. 
His schooling was therefore desultory, hut he early 
adored the tales and poems read to him hy his 
devoted nurse, Alison Cunningham, and so began 
the passion for literature which dominated his life. 
His father, Thomas Stevenson, an able civil engv- 
neer, desired Louis to follow his profession, but 
after more than three years^ study he abandoned it. 
He next read law to please his father, but he genu- 
inely cared only for writing. 

Perhaps no figure in literature is more loved for 
sheer valiance of spirit than Robert Louis Stevenson. 
He contended all his life against disease with high 
courage and dauntless gaiety. In France and 
California, in the Adirondacks and the South Sea 
Islands, he pursued tiie witUo^-^the^wisp, heaWi, 
which always eluded him. From 1880 to his death 
in 1884 ^^ y^^ '^^oas a source of strength and 
inspiration; yet, exiled from friends, he suffered 
physical pain and weary disappointment. Much 
of his best work was written in bed. Nevertheless, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



160 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

in seventeen years he produced four volumes of 
essay, seven romances, five collections of fantastic 
tales, two of SouOi Sm yams, three of poetry, five 
volumes of travel and topography, one of political 
history, and left material for several posthumous 
works. 

*' Treasure Island** is perhaps the best loved of 
his romances. Stevenson said: ''If this donH 
fetch the kids, why, they have gone rotten since my 
time J* And again, as he wrote it: ''IVs awful 
fun, hoys* stories; you just indulge the pleasure of 
your heart, that*s all.** 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE STRANGE CASE OF 
DR. JEKYLL AND MR. HYDE 

By ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON 

Condensation by 
IRVING BACHELLER 

yUTR. UTTERSON was a lawyer who 
-^'^ believed in letting people go to the 
devil in their own way. He and Richard 
Enfield, a man about town, who was at 
once his distant kinsman and his friend, 
often walked about the London streets 
together. One day they came upon a sin- 
ister, windowless, two-story building in a 
byway. 

Enfield told of seeing a man in this street 
run into a little girl, knock her down, and 
walk over her body. "It sounds nothing to 
hear, but it was hellish to see," he said. 
"I collared the man and held him, and, 
though he made no resistance, he gave toe a 
look so ugly that it set me in a sweat. He 
offered to pay damages and came to this 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



162 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

house to get the money. He gave me ten 
pounds in gold and a check signed by a man 
I knew. A forgery? Not a bit of it — 
perfectly good!" 

Mr. Utterson asked the name of the man. 
Enfield with some hesitation said, '^His 
name is Hyde." 

"You see I don't ask you the name of the 
man who signed the cheeky for I know it 
already," said Utterson. 

That night the latter opened his safe and 
took from it a will which he re-examined 
with care. It provided that in case of the 
death of Henry Jekyll all his possessions 
were to pass to Edward Hyde, and in case 
of the disappearance, or unexplained absence 
for three months, of said Jekyll, Edward 
Hyde should step into Jekyll's shoes without 
delay. As he studied it the lawyer said, 
"I thought it madness; now I begin to fear 
it is disgrace." 

He decided to talk with Doctor Lanyon, 
a great physician and an old friend of Jekyll. 

"I see very little of Henry now," said 
Lanyon. "He began to go wrong some 
ten years ago. He became too fanciful 
for me." 

Lanyon had never heard of Hyde. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



DOCTOR JEKYLL AND MIL HYDE 163 

Prom that time forward XJtterson began 
to haunt that smister doorway into which 
Hyde had disappeared. He determined to 
discover its owner. At last one night a 
smsSly plainly dressed man approached and 
drew a key from his pocket. His look sug- 
gested deformity, but did not show it. 
XJtterson accosted him and said: "Now I 
shall know you again. It may be useful/' 

Hyde gave his address in Soho, admitted 
knowing Jekyll, and disappeared within. 
XJtterson turned away convinced that this 
loathsome little man had some dark hold 
upon Doctor Jekyll. In sorrow and in pity 
he went to call upon Jekyll, who lived just 
around the comer. He was away. 

To the butler XJtterson said: "I saw Mr. 
Hyde go in by the old dissecting-room door, 
Poole. Is that right when Doctor Jekyll is 
away?" 

"Quite right, sir. Mr. Hyde has a key.'' 

XJtterson went home with a feeling that 
some danger menaced his friend Jekyll. 

A year later London was startled by a 
singularly inhuman murder case. A house- 
maid, looking from a window, saw a man 
who resembled Mr. Hyde strike down her 
master, a venerable, white-haired man, and 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



164 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

trample his body underfoot in a hellish 
fury. The old man was Sir Danvers Carew. 

The case came to Utterson^ who alone 
recognized the weapon which the assassin 
had dropped. It was a cane which he had 
himself presented to Henry Jekyll. It was 
another link in the chain. XJtterson took 
an oflBicer to the address which Hyde had 
given. The latter was not at home. 

The house was empty, and nothing sus- 
picious was to be seen except a pile of ashes 
on the hearth as if many papers had been 
burned. Among these the detective dis- 
covered a partially burnt check-book. Fol- 
lowing this clue, they located several thousand 
pounds at a certain bank. 

Hyde did not claim the money. He had 
gone away, swiftly and safely. 

The next step was to visit the sinister 
house, which was in truth a part of Jekyll's 
property and known as "The Laboratory.'' 
light fell through a foggy cupola. At the 
farther end a flight of stairs led to a large 
room lighted by three iron-barred windows 
which looked on the court. A fire burned 
in the grate, and there, cowering close to it, 
sat Doctor Jekyll, looking deathly sick. He 
held out a cold hand. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



DOCTOR JEKYLL AND MR. HYDE 165 

Utterson asked if he had heard the news. 
Jekyll replied that he had heard it cried in 
the street. Utterson said: ''Carew is my 
client, but so are you, and I want to know 
what I am doing. Are you hiding this 
murderer? '* 

Jekyll swore that he was not, but added: 
*'He is safe — quite safe. He will never 
more be heard of.'' 

He showed Utterson a letter from Hyde 
in a queer, upright handwriting. 

As he went out Utterson asked Poole 
about the man who had brought the letter 
to his master. Poole was sure no letter 
had been handed in. The letter must have 
come in by the way of the laboratory. 
Utterson's clerk, an expert in handwriting, 
put the two letters side by side. After care- 
ful study he said: "The two hands are in 
many points identical; they are differently 
sloped, that is all." 

Utterson's blood ran cold in his veins. 
"Henry Jekyll has forged in defense of a 
ferocious murderer," he said. 

One day Lanyon called on Utterson, look- 
ing like a man who had been death-doomed. 
He refused to discuss Jekyll. He would 
not have his name mentioned. "I regard 



Digitized I:' 



le 



166 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

him as dead/' he said, but would say no 
more. 

In less than a week Lanyon took to his 
bed and died. A day or two after the 
funeral, a letter from the dead man came 
by messenger to the lawyer, a missive 
marked "Private. Not to be opened till 
the death or disappearance of Henry Jekyll." 

XJtterson did not open the letter, but went 
at once to call upon Jekyll. He saw only 
Poole, who said his master was hardly ever 
seen outside the room in the laboratory, 
and that he had . -wm very silent and 
morose. It seeme<i t i something heavy 
rested on his mind 

One evening as I' . ■ ( i ^ >n and Enfield went 
across the court in l.» rear of the Jekyll 
house they saw th(^ : > 1 or sitting at one of 
the windows, taking * r ^iir, with an infinite 
sadness of mien, l\:'^ some disconsolate 
prisoner. 

Utterson, shocked af Lis looks, iu*ged him 
to come down and ^v .-k with him. Jekyll 
refused sadly. Sue! ^ i:\/ as they both stood 
looking at him his .-;n N^ vanished and an 
expression of abject 1/ r^c^* and despair came 
upon his face. He t . i : . 1 away. The win- 
dow was thrust doT\T., ; tterson tinned and 



Digitized by VjOOQ iC 



D0C5T0R JEKYLL AND MR. HYDE 167 

looked at his companion^ Enfield. Both 
were pale; there was an answering horror 
in their eyes. 

One night Poole suddenly appeared at 
Utterson's house. He came to say that for 
a week his master had been shut up in his 
cabinet and that he was alarmed. ''I can't 
bear it any longer," he said. 

He could not explain his f ears^ but begged 
the lawyer to go back with him. His face 
was white and his voice broken. 

Utterson found ike entire household in 
Jekyll's house in a state of panic. All the 
maids were huddled together like scared 
sheep. 

"They're all afraid," said Poole. "Fol- 
low me," he added. "I want you to hear, 
and I want y6u to be heard — ^but don't go 
m, su*." 

They knocked on Jekyll's door, but a 
voice said, "I cannot see any one." 

When they returned to the kitchen Poole 
asked, "Was that my master's voice?" 
Utterson admitted it was changed. Poole 
then opened his heart. "I believe my 
master has been made away with/' he 
said. 

Poole thought it strange that the mur- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



188 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSE D 

derer stayed. He said that the man in the 
cabmet room had been ciying out night and 
day for help, and had thrown out papers 
on which were written orders for certain 
drugs. 

Utterson examined some of these papers, 
which were agonized pleas for a special 
kind of salt which he had used and wanted 
again. They were all in Jekyll's hand., as 
Poole admitted. He also explained that 
once he had caught sight of the man inside. 
''The hair stood up at sight of him. If that 
was my master^ why had he a mask on his 
face?" 

Poole said, "That thing was not my mas- 
ter. My master was a tall fine man — ^this 
is a kind of dwarf." 

They decided to break down the door. 

Poole said, "Once I heard it weeping." 
This added to the terror and mystery. 

They stood before the door and Utterson 
demanded entrance. A voice from within 
cried, "For God's sake have mercy." 

"That is not Jekyll's voice — ^it is Hyde's," 
shouted Utterson, and swung his ax against 
the door. 

Shattering the lock, they rushed in. On 
the floor lay the form of a man contorted 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



DOCTOR JEKYLL AND. MR. HYDE 169 

and twitching. They drew near and turned 
the body on its back. It was Edward Hyde, 
and by his side was an empty vial. He 
was dead. 

Jekyll was not to be found, but the dead 
Hyde was dressed in what seemed to be a 
suit of Jekyll's clothes much too large for 
him. 

On the table was a confession addressed to 
Utterson, and a will drawn in his favor. 
Lanyon's letter explained the mystery. Hyde 
had come one night to his office very ill 
and asked for some powders which Jekyll 
had left with Lanyon to be given to Hyde 
when he should call for them. Hyde, a 
small man, with clothes grotesquely large, 
eagerly seized the powjier and mixed a 
liquid which had quickly turned from purple 
to green. 

The man drank. He reeled. He stag- 
gered. He clutched the table. He seemed 
to swell. His features changed, and there 
before Lanyon's eyes, pale and faint- 
ing, groping before him with his hands, 
like a man restored to life stood Henry 
Jekyll. 

Hyde and Jekyll were inhabitants of the 
same body! By the use of a drug he had 

VOL. I. — 14 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



170 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

l)eeh able to change from one personality to 
the other. Hyde was wholly evil. Jekyll, 
the amiable, respected professor, had but 
to drink that powerful drug to become the 
revolting Hyde. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 




JAMES FENIMORE COOPER 



Digitized by VjOOQLC 



JAMES FENIMORE COOPER 

/^OOPER was horn in New Jersey in 1789 ^ hd 
^ when only ahovi a year old removed to his 
father^ s almost feudal domain at Cooperstown, New 
York, where he died in 1851. There he learned to 
know (he wilderness which plays so important a part 
in his hookSy and there, too, he probably acquired 
that headstrong self-assertiveness and disregard 
of the opinions of others which made him, while 
one of the few most widely read avihors in (he 
worldy one of the most cordiaMy detested individuals 
to he found. He had a positive genius for getting 
in had. While Dickens and Kipling deeply 
wounded one nation hy their American Notes, they 
were pigmies in (his respect compared with Cooper. 
He could exasperate anybody and everybody and ap- 
parently cuUivated with pleasure his habitual apti- 
tudes. Lowell wrote of him as ^' Cooper, who^s written 
six volumes to prove he^s as good as a lord.*^ An 
English magazine described him as a ^'bilious 
braggart/* a ^'liar,** a ''fvU jackass,** an ^Hnsect,** 
a ''grub,** and a 'Weptile.** The ''New-Yorker** 
pleasanUy wrote of him: "He is as proud of 
blackgtuirding a^ a fishwoman is of BiUingsgate. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



172 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

It is as natural to him as snarling to a tomrcat or 
growling to a bulldog. He has the scorn and con- 
tempt of every well-informed American.^* He 
cuUivaied a rich crop of libel suits — and won them 
all! 

Yet the kindly hand of time has made us forget 
all (his virulence. It is only the virile story-teller 
who is remembered. Often called " The American 
Scott/' he has probably been as widely read in all 
languages as any man who ever put pen to paper. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE PILOT 

By JAMES FENIMORE COOPER 

Condensation by 
ALFRED S. CLARK 

/^N a late afternoon of a winter's day 
^^ during the American Revolution, a 
rakish schooner and a majestic frigate an- 
chored well inside a little bay on the north- 
eastern coast of England. A whale-boat 
drove shoreward, a young oflScer scrambled 
up the steep cliffs, and a few minutes later 
a mysterious stranger was transferred to 
the frigate's deck. He answered to the 
name of *'Mr. Gray" and was said to be 
merely a pilot, but he was greeted with sur- 
prising deference. 

For no ordinary man would these vessels 
have ventured so near that coast of sand- 
bars and hidden rocks. The wind was a 
mere ruffle of air. But the incessant mutter 
of the long, slow waves foretold that a 
storm was brewing. Ever more fitfully 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



174 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

and faintly blew the land breeze; the mutter 
of the waters grew deeper. Only here and 
there did a few stars twinkle between the 
fast gathering clouds. It was time to beat 
out to open sea, if it were not even now too 
late. Men swarmed aloft and hung upon 
the yards; sails fluttered out; the anchor 
was pulled in; the frigate gathered headway. 
Then the faint breeze died. The spread of 
canvas hung useless; the currents drove the 
ship shoreward. 

With a roar the wind came suddenly from 
the east. White spray dashed from the 
bow. Yet the pilot paced the quarter-deck, 
seemingly oblivious to danger. But open 
water was far ahead and suddenly from the 
forecastle came that dreaded cry, "Breakers! 
Breakers dead ahead!'' The pilot shook oflF 
his trance of thought. Hid orders thundered 
forth, sailors sprang hither and thither at 
his bidding, the frigate swung about at his 
cry of "Hold on everything!'' Tortuously 
she picked her way through the twisting 
channels, in darkness amid the bowlings 
of the great winds. 

She shivered from bow to stem as a 
hundred men loosed the huge mainsail. The 
jib was torn free with a crash like a cannon's 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE PILOT 175 

blast, but the big sail held and the frigate 
bowed like a reed in the wind. White 
foam showed dimly upon both sides, but the 
pilot kept the ship, as by a miracle, within 
a narrow ribbon of dark water. He took the 
wheel himself. Time and again the frigate 
seemed to have reeled free from peril; time 
and again she plunged anew toward a 
welter of white water. But she drove ever 
on and at last she rode the great waves of the 
open sea. 

Not the storm alone had these ships dared. 
They were American vessels, lurking about 
an enemy's coast. This little bay had a 
peculiar fascination for two young lieuten- 
ants aboard — Edward GriflBth and Richard 
Barnstable. Not far inland lived Colonel 
Howard, a Tory who had fled from America 
when the Colonists revolted. With him 
dwelt his niece, Cecilia Howard, beloved by 
GriflSth, and his ward, Katherine Plowden, 
betrothed to Barnstable. In St. Ruth's 
Abbey lingered, too, Christopher Dillon, a 
poor kinsman anxious to better his condition 
by wedding the wealthy Cecilia. Redcoats 
lent a picturesqueness to the venerable abbey, 
for a small garrison imder Captain Bor- 
roughcliffe had been summoned by the 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



176 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

owner. For aught that men knew, John 
Paul Jones himself might be aboard these 
ships hovering near by. 

While reconnoitering the next night, "Mr. 
Gray'' and GriflSth were captured, but 
Borroughclifife's drunkenness enabled them 
to escape. GriflSth was, however, retaken. 

The impetuous Barnstable, fretting off- 
shore with his enormous coxswain. Long 
Tom CoflBn, had been nearly cut off from 
his schooner by an English cutter, but he 
scrambled aboard safely and the drum 
beat to quarters. While broadsides roared 
and the decks grew slippery with blood, the 
little fighting ships met and grappled. Be- 
fore Barnstable could lead his boarders to 
the enemy's deck, CoflSn tumbled into the 
sea. Shouting, *' Revenge Long Tom!" the 
lieutenant rushed with his men upon the 
foe. It was fighting at close quarters and 
the issue was in doubt when the drenched 
and furious coxswain emerged from the sea 
and with his harpoon pinioned the English 
captain to his mast. In a few minutes the 
Americans were masters of the cutter. Cow- 
ering in that scene of bloodshed the victors 
discovered the crafty Dillon, who pleaded 
to be sent off as a hostage, promising to 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE PILOT 177 

return in person or to have Griffith delivered 
in his stead. 

His word of honor was trusted and he 
was sent away with Long Tom. He luckily 
overheard Dillon's treacherous plot to entrap 
Barnstable's waiting party. The resource- 
ful old seaman gagged Borroughcliffe and 
drove Dillon, at the point of his harpoon, 
back to the waiting schooner. By this time, 
however, a battery on the cliff brought 
down the schooner's mainmast. She was 
driven from her course by heavy seas. The 
masts were feUed and anchors dropped, 
but she plunged on like a bobbing cork in 
rapids. Barnstable would have stayed by 
his ship, but suddenly Long Tom seized him 
and hiu-led him over the bulwarks. "God's 
will be done with me," Coffin cried, above 
the wind's roar. Dillon's lifeless body was 
roUed upon the shore, but Long Tom's 
stayed with the sea to which he had dedi- 
cated his life. 

Surprise succeeded siu-prise at the abbey. 
Barnstable marched his shipwrecked mariners 
into the building and they took possession, 
but they were soon made prisoners by the 
redcoats. Then the mysterious figure of the 
pilot appeared at the door and behind him 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



178 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

loomed marines from the frigate. Colonel 
Howard; an imwilling prisoner, was marched 
away with Cecilia and Katherine, who 
could not be downcast at the triumph of 
their lovers, i 

Captain Borroughcliffe was freed, as was 
another inmate of the abbey, Alice Dus- 
combe. She had recognized the pilot in his 
disguise when he was first captured. They 
had been lovers, but she was so stanch 
in her love for her king and she so hated 
bloodshed that she had broken her troth 
to this "Mr. Gray,'' whom she addressed as 
John. She reminded him that, did she 
but once call aloud his true name, the whole 
countryside would ring with it. What that 
name was is never revealed, but there was 
but one sea-rover who could strike stark 
terror into all English hearts. 

On board the frigate repeated conferences 
were held between the captain, GriflBth, and 
"Mr. Gray.'' Suddenly out of the fog 
drove a mountainous ship of the line. The 
drum beat aboard the frigate, sailors leaped 
nimbly about the deck, clearing for action. 
The women were led below and gradually 
order resolved itself out of the chaos of 
shouting men. A terrific roar filled the air 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE PILOT 179 

as three tiers of guns blazed a broadside 
from the English ship. A few sails and 
ropes were cut, but the frigate's sailing 
power was hardly affected. One chance 
ball struck the captain and hurled him to 
death. Griffith succeeded to the command 
and he was appalled as he saw the frigate 
hemmed about. To the east loomed the 
great ship of war and far in the northeast 
the sails of another frigate. 

"What are we to do?'' cried Griffith. 
"Fight them! Fight them!" shouted the 
pilot. "Let me proclaim your name to the 
men," Griffith appealed. But the pilot 
refused. "Should we come to a grapple," 
he said, "I will give forth the name as a 
war-cry and these English will quail be- 
fore 'it." 

The ship of war was distanced, but she 
cut off a retreat and the frigate ahead had 
been reinforced by two others. The fore- 
most maneuvered with the American frigate 
for position. Broadsides crashed and they 
grappled. The American guns raked her 
foe and left her helpless, with useless ropes 
dangling from shattered masts. The deck 
was cleared and as another enemy appeared, 
Griffith shouted, "Hoist away of every- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



180 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

thing!" Fifty men flew aloft upon the 
spars, and white canvas was spread from 
every mast. The frigate lunged ahead, 
but it could not outstrip its rival, and the 
halt to give battle had enabled the ship 
of the line to draw up. 

Then for a few breathless moments the 
pilot leaped into conmiand. Breakers loomed 
ahead, but he drove the vessel straight into 
the shoals, into narrow passages where 
white foam bubbled perilously close. The 
enemy dared not follow, and when night 
feu pursuit was hopeless. 

Colonel Howard, fatally wounded in the 
battle, lived long enough to see Cecilia 
Howard and Katherine Plowden wedded by 
the chaplain to their lovers. His last words 
were spoken to GriflSth. "Perhaps I may 
have mistaken my duty to America — but I 
was too old to change my politics or my 
religion; I — ^I — I loved the king — God bless 
him—" 

The frigate drove on to Holland, where the 
pilot landed in a small boat that dwindled 
into a black speck and disappeared in the 
setting sun. Twelve years later Cecilia 
Griffith saw her husband's face cloud as he 
read in the newspaper of the death of a great 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE PILOT 181 

man, but not even then did he divulge his 
name. He had promised to keep it secret. 
He said only, "Our happiness might have 
been wrecked in the voyage of life had we 
not met the unknown Pilot of the German 
Ocean." 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



LONDON 

TACK LONDON was bom, with the love of 
^ adventure in his veins, ai San Francisco, 
January 12, 1876. He started his education at 
the University of California, but did not finish it 
there, for (he strenuous life was to he his school, 
and aU humanity were to be his teachers, any 
strange place his schoolrroom. Now he was in the 
Klondike; now at sea before the mast; (hen he was 
in Japan and seal-hunting in Bering Sea; again 
he was tramping through the United States and 
Canada, learning all he covld of men and their 
ways; he was journalist and lecturer, war cor- 
respondent in the Rv^so- Japanese War, and ever 
and anon making those voyages which kept the 
eyes of the world upon him. How he broke into 
the realm of letters he has vividly described; his 
own great battle with John Barleycorn, told with 
unusual frankness, did a great deal to set the stage 
for John's present tragic plight; his own person^ 
ality kept the great reading public as interested 
a^ did the creations of his imagination; his books 
came thick and fast, beginning with 1900, some^ 
times two and three a year. Naturally they were 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 




JACK LONDON 



Digitized by VjOOQLC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



LONDON 183 

uneveUf htd through aU his work glowed the genius 
of a horn story-iellery a great heart, and a love for 
hiafeUows and their problems. 

He was twice married, first to Bessie Maddem 
and second to Charmian Kittredge, who plays a 
large part in his later books. He died Nov&mber 
21,1916. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE SEA WOLF 

By JACK LONDON 

Condensation by 
CLIFTON B. CARBERRY 

HTHE keen eyes of Wolf Larsen, master 
-*' of the sealing-schooner Ghosty bound for 
Japanese poaching - grounds, spotted the 
bobbing head of Humphrey Van Weyden 
amid the waves of San Francisco Bay, into 
whose waters Humphrey had been thrown 
as a result of a shipwreck. A few moments 
more and Humphrey was aboard the Ghost. 

Rescued, he faced his rescuer with thanks 
and a request to be put ashore. The skipper 
eyed him curiously. 

"What do you do for a living?" he asked. 

"I — ^I am a gentleman," Humphrey stam- 
mered. 

"Who feeds you?" 

"I have an income." 

Wolf Larsen's lips curled in a sneer. 

"You stand on dead men's legs. You 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE SEA WOLF 185 

couldn't walk £done between two sunrises 
and hustle the meat for your belly for three 
meals. You stay here as cabin-boy for 
the good of your soul. I'll make a man 
of you.'' 

Instant rebellion leaped into Humphrey's 
eyes. Before he could protest there came 
a sudden interruption — ^a clamor from the 
real cabin-boy, a great, husky youth who 
stood by. Wolf Larsen turned and crashed 
his fist into the boy's stomach. Crumpled 
like a wet rag around a stick, the lad col- 
lapsed into a heap on the deck. 

"Well," said Wolf Larsen, meaningly, to 
Humphrey, "have you made up your mind? " 

The spark of manhood in Humphrey died 
out. 

"Yes," he replied, weakly. 

"Say, 'Yes, sir!'" 

"Yes, sir." 

And thus Humphrey passed into the 
servitude of Wolf Larsen, the Sea Wolf. 
His blinking eyes, half revealing and half 
concealing his terror, surveyed his master 
and thus appraised him: "Massive of build, 
like a huge gorilla; with a strength savage 
and ferocious; features of no evil stamp; 
eyes of baffling protean gray, sometimes as 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



186 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

chill as an Arctic landscape, sometimes all 
aglow with love-lights — ^intense, masculine, 
and compelling — ^which at the same time 
fascinate and dominate women until they 
surrender in a gladness of joy and of relief 
and sacrifice." 

His creed, the mighty will which engined 
Wolf Larsen, was short. 

"Life is a mess," he declared. "The big 
eat the little that they may continue to 
move; the strong eat the weak that they 
may retain their strength. The lucky eat 
the most and move the longest, that is all." 

His company on shipboard: seamen sod- 
den and sullen by drink, more animal than 
human; a group of seal-hunters, wild, reck- 
less nomads, ignorant of an ordered world- 
all slaves in body and spirit to the Sea 
Wolf. 

Yet there was a gentle side to Wolf Larsen. 
He was no ignorant cave-man. He could 
discuss literature with "Hump," roll over 
his lips the poetic glories of Shelley and 
Browning, argue the sciences with amazing 
fluency, and be disarmingly charming at 
times. 

As the days rolled on and murderous 
quarrels made the hours hideous, Hiun- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE SEA WOLF 187 

phrey's backbone gradually stiflfened. He 
dreamed of killing the Sea Wolf. But Lar- 
sen fascinated him and, like some splendid 
animal^ some dangerous beast, held him 
in a spelL He knew the world should be 
rid of such a monster, yet Larsen's eyes 
compelled obedience. 

Day by day, with not a gleam of gracious- 
ness to break the orgy of brutishness, this 
tragic drama went on. Humphrey de- 
spaired of even a gleam of sunshine. Sud- 
denly fate intervened in the person of 
Maude Brewster. 

Like Humphrey, she came to the Ghost 
from the sea, saved from a wrecked liner. 
Like Humphrey, she expected to be put 
aboard a passing vessel. But no! The Sea 
Wolf had other plans. She was added to 
the crew as Humphrey was, and likewise 
''for the good of her soul." 

Maude received the news in wonderment. 
What kind of a man was this mocking master 
of the Ghostf She was soon to find out. 

The cook had offended Larsen. A rope 
was coiled around the offender and he was 
cast overboard in the wake of the ship. A 
shark rushed for him and Larsen ordered 
him pulled in. Despite the maddened haste, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



188 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

the shark in the final rush tore away the 
foot of the victim. 

^'The shark was not in the reckoning^ Miss 
Brewster," said the Sea Wolf, smilingly. 
" It was — shall we say — an act of Providence.*' 

This scene convinced Humphrey that he 
must kill Wolf Larsen. His courage flared 
up so brightly that he actually threatened 
to murder him. 

The Sea Wolf barked a whimsical gufiFaw: 
'^Bravo, Hump! You do me proud. I like 
you the better for it.'* 

Humphrey winced. He confided his res- 
olution to Maude, with whom he had fallen 
in love. She counseled against it, protest- 
ing that moral courage always defeats brute 
force, but she failed to convince him. He 
knew the Sea Wolf too well. 

The dancing lights in Wolf Larsen's eyes 
when he looked into Maude's warned Hum- 
phrey that some day the storm would break. 
And it did. In the midst of the night he 
rushed into Maude's cabin to find her in 
the crushing embrace of Wolf Larsen. 

Humphrey flung himself on the monster, 
to be tossed aside like a chip. He rushed 
again, drawing his knife, plunging the blade 
into the Sea Wolf's shoulder. Larsen stag- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE SEA WOLF 189 

gered back and Maude seized Humphrey^ 
begging him not to kill. Suddenly the Wolf 
collapsed; not from his wound, but as if 
from some uncanny spell that paralyzed 
him. The giant was helpless. Humphrey 
carried him to his berth and realized that 
opportunity for escape was at hand. 

Maude and he put off in a small boat, 
hoping that they might make Japan, six 
hundred miles away. But the winds and 
creeping drift of the Pacific intervened and 
finally the grim adventure ended for a time 
on a little Arctic island. Here they pre- 
pared to remam for the winter. 

Suddenly one morning, weeks after, Hum- 
phrey saw on the beach the wreck of a 
vessel, and it was strangely familiar. It 
could not be — ^yes it was — ^the Ghost. The 
blood chilled in his veins. Wild thoughts 
of flight or the sudden ending of both their 
lives entered his mind. Then a wondering 
cunning succeeded such fears. He would 
kill Wolf Larsen, kill him as he slept, 
for all on board were doubtless sleeping. 
With knife and gun he cUmbed to the 
deck. He saw no one. Was the ship de- 
serted, after all? 

But as he rounded the poop there burst on 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



100 ONE HUNDRED BEST N0VEI5 CONDENSED 

his gaze the Sea Wolf. Humphrey raised 
his gun; the trigger clicked sharply. Then 
ffllence. 

*'Why don't you shoot?" coolly remarked 
the Wolf. 

Humphrey could not speak. 

"Hump," said the Sea Wolf, slowly, "you 
can't do it. And after all I have taught 
you. You know that I would kill an 
unarmed man as readily as I would smoke 
a cigar. Bah! I had expected the better 
things of you. Hump." 

Humphrey slowly lowered the gun. 

The Ghosfs presence was explained calmly 
by the Sea Wolf. He was caught in a net 
he had set for his hated brother, "Death" 
Larsen, his crew were taken away and he 
was left alone. Pacific storms did the rest. 

A strange weariness in the Sea Wolf's 
bearing, a hesitant, preoccupied air about 
him, puzzled Humphrey. A few days later 
he again summoned coiu^age to put him out 
of the way. But this time he saw Wolf 
Larsen slowly making his way down the 
deck, his quivering finger-tips groping for 
the hand-rails. 

Wolf Larsen was blind! No need to kill 
him. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE SEA WOLF 191 

Maude and Humphrey determined to 
escape by repairing the Ghost, but the Sea 
Wolf willed otherwise. Blind and helpless 
as he was, he craftily contrived to ruin 
Humphrey's work, determined they should 
all die together, so his grim revenge would 
be complete. Fiendish cunning and instinct 
to kill still remained. 

A final reckoning was to come. Scorning 
precaution because he felt the Sea Wolf 
physically powerless from the suspected 
pressure of a tumor on the brain, Humphrey 
ventured too near one day. Suddenly the 
Sea Wolf's stupor passed. The steel-like 
fingers gripped Humphrey's throat. The 
trap had spnmg. 

Maude leaped into action, tearing at 
Larsen's hands. But for once the Sea 
Wolf's tremendous will could not spur his 
weakened body. His fingers twitched and 
then relapsed and Humphrey was released. 

"That was the last play of the Wolf," 
said Larsen with his twisted smile. "I'd 
like to have done for you first. Hump. I 
thought I had that much left in me." 

And so Wolf Larsen faded into uncon- 
sciousness, a pitiful ending for this grim 
sea murderer who pictured himself roaring 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



192 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

to death in a blaze of tumult and evil 
splendor. 

Soon the restored Ghost embraced the 
waves again, freighted with happiness. Then 
a trail of smoke on the horizon, a rescue, and 
the lovers^ kiss as the cutter went dancing 
over the waves on the long road home. 

Condensed from The Sea Wolf by Jack London. Copyright, 
1904, by the Macmillan Company. Used by permission of 
author and publisher. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 




ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON 



Digitized by VjOOQLC 



STEVENSON 

nOBEBT LOUIS STEVENSON called Mmr 
^^ self an idkr. He v>as a natural vagabond 
who loved to go in old clothes upon his own way 
through the strange city haunts of the disinherited 
or out upon the open road. He despised smug 
society y hut talked eagerly with all sorts of men and 
women. Yet even as a hoy he always carried a 
note^book and a pencil and cdnstanUy put into 
words what he saw and thought and felt. He 
wrote until his health gave way, again and again, 
and then he wrote of that. 

Between 1873 and 1879 he produced many of the 
most inspiriMng essays of Oie " Virginibus Pus- 
risque'* series. The magazines published "A 
Lodging for the Night^' ''WiU o' the MiU,'' the 
fantastic **New AnMan Nights,'* and other stories. 

In 1879 he made the journey to California in 
steerage and emigrantrtrain, determined to ^^ learn 
for himself the pinch of life as it is felt by the un- 
privileged and poor.'' The hardships injured his 
health, hut did not deter him from maJdng the first 
draft of " The Amateur Emigrant." He recuper- 
ated on a goatrranch near Monterey and managed 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



194 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

to teach some neglected children. In Monterey 
afterward he planned his romantic comedy, ^^ Prince 
Otto.'' 

He completed the breakdown of his health by 
living on starvation rations in a workman's lodging 
in San Francisco and working feverishly. After a 
dangerous illness^ he married and lived in the 
mining-camp of '* The Silverado Squatters." 

Thus did Stevenson the idler dig his material 
and his power ovt of life itself. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE MASTER OF 
BALLANTRAE 

By ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON 

Condensation by 
JAMES B. CONNOLLY 

nrUE Dunes of Ballantrae were a strong 
* family in Scotland from the days of 
David !• Their ups and downs I pass over, 
to come to that year 1745 when the founda- 
tions of this tragedy were laid. 

There was my lord, studious, tactful and 
retired from the world. There was The 
Master (James in baptism) with his father's 
love of study; but what was tact in the 
father changed to black dissimulation in 
him. Though ever in broils, invariably 
he left his partners in mischief to pay the 
piper. The second son, Mr. Henry, was 
neither able nor bad; an out-of-doors, solid 
sort, who had had an active hand from a 
boy in the management of the estate. In 

VOL. I. — 16 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



196 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

the house also was Miss Alison Graeme, an 
orphan, comely and self-willed, heiress to a 
fortune and, because of my lord^s necessities, 
pledged m marriage to The Master. 

Then came the uprising for Prince Charlie. 
Against the wishes of the other three The 
Master elected to ride with the Prince; which 
left Mr. Henry to take King George's side, 
this being a common policy of great houses 
in that day. So The Master rode to the 
north. Then came the word of Culloden 
and The Master's death. After a decent 
time Mr. Henry, to preserve the estate, 
married Miss Alison, although he no more 
than any other doubted her love for The 
Master's memory. 

But The Master was not dead. He had 
escaped to sea, his escape being not to his 
credit. At sea he was captured by a pirate 
ship. By the most ingenious deviltry he 
secured the treasure of the pirate ship as 
she was about to fall into the hands of a 
King's cruiser, and escaped with it to the 
swamps on the American shore. One man 
he took to guide him out of the swamp, 
and dirked him to death after they were 
safely clear of it. Thence he continued his 
march to French Canada, although forced 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE MASTER OF BALLANTRAE 197 

on the way to hide his treasure in the wil- 
derness. This we learned from a Colonel 
Burke; an Irish soldier of fortune, who 
came in the night to plead money for the 
support of The Master, who was then in 
France. 

There was a letter from The Master 
which threw Mr. Henry in a passion. ''He 
calls me a niggardly dog!" he cried. "But 
if I ruin the estate I shall stuff him, the 
blood-sucker I And all this I foresaw when 
he elected himself and not me to go with 
Prince Charlie." 

The gap made in our accounts by The 
Master's demands became a sore embar- 
rassment. As steward of the estate I must 
needs ride to Edinburgh and there raise 
new loans on hard terms to keep old onea 
afloat; and this held for seven years, Mr. 
Henry shaving everything to the last far- 
thing to raise more money, and yet more 
money, wiiming for himself thereby no 
better title than miser with the countryside 
as well as at home; for never a word of this 
business did he even tell to the old lord or 
Mrs. Henry, it being the devilish malice 
of The Master to require this secrecy and 
the loyal nature of his brother to comply. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



198 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

The odium attaching to Mr, Henry, and the 
knowledge, which came to me, that The 
Master all this time had also a pension 
from the Scotch fund in Paris, became too 
great a burden for me. I took it on myself 
to tell Mrs, Henry how her husband had 
already sent seven thousand to The Master. 
Thereafter no further moneys were sent 
abroad, and the telling did much to check 
a widening restraint between Mr. Henry 
and my lady, a great joy to me. 

This action resulted in The Master's 
return to us, a great curse to the household; 
for in all matters of contention, though Mr. 
Henry might be right, The Master had the 
trick of setting him in the wrong. He still 
demanded money, and, to satisfy him, the 
entail was broken and a great piece of land 
sold; and all the while he ceased not to lay 
siege to the heart of Mrs. Henry, canying 
it on so deftly that I scarce knew if she 
was aware of it herself, she that I doubt 
not still loved him. 

This brings me to the night when he laid 
the most unbearable of insults on Mr. 
Henry. "I never knew a woman," said 
The Master, "who did not prefer me, nor 
— I think — ^who did not continue to prefer 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



THE MASTER OF BALLANTRAE 199 

me to you." At which Mr. Henry coldly 
struck him on the mouth. 

"A blow!" cried The Master. "I wiU 
not take a blow from God Almighty! I 
must have blood for this!" 

They fought beyond the shrubbery, I 
bringing the candles for them. From the first 
Mr. Henry showed himself the stronger, 
which so surprised and confused The Master 
that he tried foul play, but got only the 
length of Mr. Henry^s sword through the 
body. He fell, apparently lifeless. 

Mr. Henry shook with sobs. I led him 
into the house and told the old lord and my 
lady; but, going back to bring in the body, 
I found it gone. A good riddance, I thought, 
whether dead or alive, but the night's work 
threw Mr. Henry into a fever, and his mind 
was never again the same clear mind as 
of old. 

The old lord died, and to my lady and Mr. 
Henry, now my lord, w:as bom a boy, and 
to that boy my lord became a slave, which 
had not been so with his first child, Katherine. 
He would pass by his wife as though she 
were a dog before the hearth to come at the 
boy. Without doubt this was in the nature 
of a judgment on my lady, she who had 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



200 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

"been so cold so many years to every mark 
of his tenderness; but to me it was mon- 
strouSy and I was emboldened, much as I 
loved him, to say so; but my saying so only 
served to send my lord sick to bed and to 
earn for me from my lady the word that I 
was no better than an old maid. 

This brings me to that mommg in April, 
1764, that The Master returned to us again, 
this time with an Indian servant. With 
his return my lord and lady, I urging them 
on, took ship for New York, where my 
lady had property through her father. This 
voyage, so I thought, will at one stroke 
rid them of The Master and weave them 
closer together. 

Twenty days it took The. Master to learn 
where they had gone; whereupon he also 
sailed for New York, and I on the same 
ship, praying that she would go down, even 
with myself with her, if it would but take 
The Master also. I looked forward with 
woe to the day he should set foot in New 
York; but our ship was a slow sailer, and 
other ships which sailed later arrived before 
us; so it happened that my lord had word 
of The Master's coming and prepared for 
him. There was suspicion of more than 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE MASTER OF BALLANTRAE 201 

one murder, it seems, to The Master's hand 
during the earlier stay he made in America, 
and so now he found it a better business to 
leave New York and hunt in the wilderness 
for that treasure which he had buried so 
many years before. 

At this time all the evil The Master had 
done seemed borne in a flood upon my lord's 
brain. He became moody and took to 
drink. There had been talk that he con- 
nived with the crew which The Master 
had hired for his expedition into the wilder- 
ness, bribing the leaders to make way with 
his brother. There is no evidence of that, 
but it is true that The Master's Indian 
servant, to save his life, as he said, did bury 
him alive, with the intent to resurrect and 
restore him later by the agency of some 
secret Oriental trick. 

My lord and a party, I being of it, fol- 
lowed The Master, and it was when the 
East Indian was lifting his body from the 
grave that we came upon them. I thought 
for a moment that the eyelids fluttered. 
Others say that the lips strove to speak, 
that his teeth showed through his beard, 
which may have been, as I was busy else- 
where, for at the first disclosure of the dead 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



202 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

man's eyes my lord had fallen to the ground. 
When I raised him he was a corpse. 

I buried him there; my lady laid an 
equal stone to each; and there where they 
died, side by side^ they lie to this day. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 




JAMES FENIMOKE COOPER 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



COOPER 

AT the age of seventeen, James Fenimore 
-^^ Cooper determined to enter upon a naval 
career in the service of his country. His appren- 
ticeship wa^ begun on a freighter sailing from New 
York to Cowes. On a stormy passage of forty 
daySy he endured the vigorous hardships of life 
before the nuzst. This was followed by an even 
rougher period of fifty-two days. These adven- 
tures furnished vivid material for thrilling episodes 
in his sea novels. 

After this he served in the navy in various cor 
padtieSj storing up invaluable experience to be 
relived by thousands in the pages of his books. 

At the age of twenty-one he married. This fiery j 
irritable, and strong-willed man was easily influ- 
enced throTighout his life by his wife, to whom he 
was deeply devoted. Through her he abandoned 
his ambition for a naval career. 

Not until he was thirty, however, did he begin 
to write. His first novel was dull beyond belief. 
Nevertheless, his friends urged him to try again. 
This time he laid the scene in his own land and 
wrote of patriotism, the passion of his own heart. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



204 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

*^The Spy^^ appeared in 1821 and was soon 8o 
popular as to make the largest sales yet won by an 
American writer. 

Cooper had vrritten his first novel to prove that 
he could invent a more interesting tale than one 
he had jtist read. He likewise wrote his first sea 
story to rival ScotPs ^^The Pirate/' and to prove 
that the author of a sea novel should have lived on 
shipboard in order to know not only the ocean, but 
the ivUmate ways and workings of ships. " The 
Pilot'^ was convincing. It met with instantaneous 
and brilliant siuxess in Europe and America. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE TWO ADMIRALS 

By JAMES FENIMORE COOPER 

Condensation by 
CYRUS TOWNSEND BRADY 

SOME time since aii American publisher 
invited a group of men^ including among 
others Roosevelt, Barnes, Spears, Connolly, 
and the writer, to select the greatest six 
romances of the sea. The Two Admirals 
was the one of Cooper's sea tales included 
by a unanimous vote. 

Well does the book deserve its selection, 
for it is without question the greatest of- 
all the novels of the sea, all of which I 
have read and not a few of which I have 
written. 

It has more of the best of Cooper, and 
less of his worst, than any of his naval or 
other romances. No writer was ever more 
at home on a ship's deck than Cooper — 
not even Marryat. And all his knowledge 
of the great deep, the way of ships therein, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



206 ONE HXJNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

the habits and customs of sailors^ has been 
utilized in full measure in this inmiortal 
story. It rings true alike to seamen and 
landsmen. 

There is a subsidiary story concerning 
the love-a£Fairs of a galkmt young sea officer, 
Sir Wycherly Wychecombe, and Mildred 
Dutton-Bluewater, a damsel as lovely, as 
delicate, and as inane as Cooper at his 
worst could describe. Whenever she ap- 
peared she was either suffused with blushes 
or bursting into tears. On one occasion 
she wept steadily for above one half-hour! 

The supposed daughter of a drunken, 
retired officer and a woman of the middle 
class, Mildred turns out to be the lawful 
niece of one of the two admirals, just in 
time to soothe his dying hours, while her 
husband, a Virginian, turns up in the nick 
of time with the papers in his hands to 
prove his succession to the ancient title 
and lands of Wychecombe. All of which is 
excessively tiresome. 

Fortunately the greater part of the book 
is taken up with the doings of the two 
admirals. The puerile, pre-mid-Victorian 
romance will easily be forgotten, but the 
remainder will richly repay the reader. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE TWO ADMIRALS 207 

In 1745, when George II reigned in 
England^ the young Pretender, Charles Ed- 
ward, made that daring and unsuccessful 
dash for a crown which came to a bloody 
end at Culloden in the following year. It 
is that abortive but gallant effort which 
furnishes the motive for the action of the 
novel. 

Vice-Admiral of the Red, Sir Gervaise 
Oakes commanded a well-fitted, well-oflSi- 
cered, well-manned, homogeneous fleet of 
ships of the line which had been cruising 
in the Bay of Biscay. Associated with hina 
was Richard Bluewater, Rear-Admiral of 
the White, second in command. These two 
men, both wedded to the service alone, 
had been shipmates and friends during a 
naval career of nearly forty years. Oakes 
was a typical English admiral, a superb 
sailor, a downright fighter; Bluewater, his 
complement and opposite, a subtle thinker 
and a brilliant tactician. The combination 
was ideal, as was the completeness of a 
friendship, not to say an affection, as sincere 
as it was lasting. Nothing had ever broken 
it; nothing, it was believed, ever would 
break it. 

In but one point did the true friends 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



208 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

differ. Oakes was a Wliig, Bluewater a 
Tory. It did not seem possible, however, 
for political considerations to interrupt their 
warm relations. The bold adventm^e of 
Charles Edward bade fair to do that very 
thing, however. For Bluewater, frank, un- 
worldly sailor that he was, cleverly played 
upon by politicians, began to waver between 
the House of Hanover, whose commission 
he held, and the House of Stuart, to which 
his heart inclined. 

To bring matters to a head M. le Vice- 
Amiral le Comte de Vervillin sailed from 
Cherbourg with a fleet of such ships as 
fairly entitled him to challenge the English 
fleet of Vice-Admiral Oakes for the mastery 
of the narrow seas. 

The latter, more than willing to try out 
the matter, at once put to sea in a heavy 
gale of wind, his capital ships weighing 
anchor in succession, with long intervals 
between them so as to spread a broad clue 
to intercept the French. Bluewater with 
his division brought up the rear. The Rear- 
Admiral was obsessed with the idea that 
De VerviUin's course had something to do 
with the Pretender's effort, and his con- 
scientious scruples threw him into a piteous 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE TWO ADMIRALS 209 

state of indecision. The Vice-Admiral was 
not troubled by any sucli subtile casuistry. 
He only saW the enemy whom it was his 
duty to beat when, where, and how he could. 

After a series of the most brilliant tactical 
maneuvers and a successful minor engage- 
ment with the whole French fleet by his 
division alone — ^the two divisions had got 
separated in the mad gale and Bluewater 
had called his own ships around him — ^the 
Vice-Admiral found himself with five ships 
in the vicinity of the French, who were just 
double in aiunber. Far away to windward 
the morning disclosed the five ships of the 
Rear - Admiral's division slowly standing 
down toward his superior under easy sail. 

Bluewater was still in his state of painful 
indecision. As soon as within signal dis- 
tance, by using a private and personal code 
he sent the following pleading despatch to 
his considerate superior: ^^God sake — make 
no signal— engage notJ^ 

This signal plunged Oakes, fully aware of 
the state of his beloved junior's mind, into 
the most terrible dilemma. Without the 
assistance of Bluewater's division he could 
not hope to engage the enemy with the 
least chanoe of success. On the other hand, 

VOL. I.— 17 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



210 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDE^^SED 

should he now withdraw without fighting 
he would have failed in his duty and would 
have been professionally ruined — and rightly. 
His mind was at once made up. Attack he 
would and must. 

Would the friendship between the two 
admirals stand the test he imposed upon it? 
Did the younger care more for Oakes and 
England than for the young prince and 
France? A short time would determine. 
Magnanimously refraining from making any 
embarrassing signal to his friend, which 
might force his hand untimely, Oakes boldly 
led down upon the waiting French line and 
with his five ships brought them to close 
action. The French were quick to take 
advantage of the opportunity given them 
by the hesitations of the English Rear- 
Admiral. Holding Oakes with five of his 
ships to leeward, De Vervillin threw the 
other five, under Des Prez, his contre- 
amiral, on the windward side of the English, 
doubling on them, placing them between 
two fires. 

Although Oakes's division was fought 
with the fury of despair, the end was at hand, 
when the opportune arrival of Bluewater, 
who could not stand seeing his friend pounded 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE TWO ADMIRALS 211 

to pieces and who threw political considera- 
tions to the wind and bore down on the 
triumphant French under a press of sail, 
completely changed the issue and wrested 
victory from defeat. All of which is set 
forth in a succession of sea pictures of sur- 
passing grandeur. 

Bluewater, remorseful over his incertitude, 
actually carried the French Rear-Admiral's 
ship by boarding at the head of his men, 
receiving a mortal wound in the attack by 
way of expiation. 

Space allows me only to mention the mas- 
terly descriptions of ship-maneuvering and 
thrilling sea fighting. I can only refer to 
some of the well-drawn characters in the 
story — ^the two splendid admirals, their cap- 
tains, the officers and seamen, especially 
old Galleygo, the admiral's steward, deline- 
ated out of a large experience with a sure 
hand. And the great ships themselves are 
imbued with personality so dear to a sea- 
man's heart. 

The touching scene at the close of the 
book, in which Oakes, old, infirm, forgetful, 
praying before the tomb of Bluewater in 
the great Abbey of Westminster, recalls 
the last battle the two had fought, and with 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



212 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

all of his former fire and fervor describes 
again those moments of suspense preceding 
the glorious victory, fitly rounds out the 
tale. And then death unites him with the 
friend he had loved and lost. 

I have read the book a score or more of 
times with ever-increasing joy. I envy any 
one who takes ship for the first time to sail 
and fight with these two great masters of 
the sea. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 




EMILE GABORIAU 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



GABOBIAU 

ZpMILE GABOBIAU was ham in Saujm, 
-^ CharerUe Infineure, November 9, 18S3. He 
died in Paris^ September 28, 1873. 

Gaboriau is an admirable example of a man 
who arrived hy finding out for himself what his 
real job was. Lawyer^s clerk, volunteer in a 
cavalry regiment, he was writing with modest atic- 
cess pieces from life as it came before his eyes, 
when, bang! he wrote ^^U Affaire Lerouge^^ in 1866. 
He suddenly became a European, indeed an inter- 
naiional, character as the great master of the de- 
tective story. As has been the case with Sherlock 
Holmes, readers were not content with the printed 
page, biU demanded to see upon the stage the per- 
sonages who had excited their wild enthv^asm in a 
career of crime. "1/6 Dossier No. 113,^^ ^^ Mon- 
sieur Lecoq,'^ ^'La Corde au Cou,^' ^^La DSgringo- 
lade,'' "Le Crime d'Ordval,'' ^^Les Esclaves de 
Paris,^' ^'UArgent des Avires,'' are some of the 
books which have revealed the mysteries of crime, 
the procedure of the police courts, the pursuit by 
ingenious sleuihs, and all such processes as give a 
thrill of delight to that very great body of humanity 
ranging from grave to gay who take pleasure in a 
good detective story. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



FILE NO. 113 

By EMILE GABORIAU 

Condensation by 
ISABEL ANDERSON 

"AN exceptionally daring robbery — ^prom- 
^ inent bank entered — ^huge sum taken!'' 
were the head-lines in a Paris paper. 

In following up this extraordinary case 
the mystery deepened^ unheard-of crimes 
were unearthed, and thrilling situations oc- 
ciured which baffled even the celebrated 
detective, Lecoq. It appeared that upon 
opening the safe one morning the cashier 
startled the clerks by crying out, "I have 
been robbed!" They gathered about, but, 
strangely enough, upon inspection the safe 
showed only a scratch, but no sign of having 
been broken open, although the 350,000 
francs were missing that the cashier said 
he had placed there 4he day before, in order 
to pay Count Louis de Clameran, a friend 
who had been left a legacy by his brother 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FILE NO. 113 215 

Gaston. M. Fauvel, the president of the 
bank, and M. Prosper Bertomy, the cashier, 
were the only persons who possessed keys 
to the door and were credited with the 
knowledge of a word which made up the 
combination. Although their relations had 
been like those of father and son, each now 
accused the other of taking the money. 

The clerks were interviewed by the police, 
and search was made of the apartment over 
the bank, occupied by the president, his 
wife, and beautiful niece, Madeleine, whose 
engagement to the cashier had been myster- 
iously broken off — it was suspected she 
preferred Mme. Valentine FauveFs hand- 
some nephew, Raoul Lagors. The presi- 
dent's record was good, but suspicion was 
directed toward the cashier, as he had been 
living extravagantly. His arrest followed, 
although he protested his innocence. Dur- 
ing the inspection of the bank and the 
apprehending of the cashier he was seen to 
scribble a line hurriedly and throw it to a 
clerk. The latter was shadowed to the 
cashier's apartment and the note procured. 
It was addressed to Mme. Gypsy, informing 
her of his arrest and advising her to hide. 
During the examination at court Prosper 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



216 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

remembered that he had been mdiscreet 
the previous ni^t in saying to Gypsy, 
when perhaps he might have been over- 
heard by the count and Raoul, that he had 
reason for constantly thinking of her at his 
work when she accused him of not thinking 
of her any longer. The word Gypsy opened 
the safe. For lack of sufl5cient evidence 
Prosper was released and the case filed in 
No. 113. 

On Prosper's return to his apartment, 
Gypsy had gone, buta note addressed in 
small printed letters was delivered to him, 
containing money. The clever Lecoq, now 
living with Prosper, under the disguise of 
an old friend of his father's, revealed that 
the printed letters had been cut from a 
prayer-book. Surely there was a woman 
in the case! Later a torn prayer-book was 
discovered hidden in Madeleine's room. 
Did she love Prosper and think him innocent 
and in need of money? Yet soon after that, 
to the surprise of every one, her engagement 
was announced to the old Count de Clameran. 
The reason for this was that Madeleine, by 
chance, overheard a conversation between 
the count and her aunt. The old count 
threatened to tell of the family skeleton 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FILE NO. 113 217 

if she did not consent to the marriage. 
Madeleine appeared and said she would 
marry him to keep the secret and the honor 
of the family name. On learning of Mad- 
eleine's engagement; Prosper, who really 
had always loved her, became very angry, 
and, thinking there must be a sinister motive 
for Mme. FauvePs allowing it, wrote an 
anonjrmous letter to M. Fauvel, telling him 
to watch his wife. 

Lecoq noticed that the good-looking Raoul 
still continued his frequent visits to the house. 
Did it mean that he was perhaps not the 
nephew, but the lover of Mme. Fauvel? 
Disguised, the great detective attended a 
masquerade ball and made insinuating re- 
marks to Mme. Fauvel concerning Raoul 
which caused her to faint, and when he 
spoke of money matters Count Louis turned 
pale. Betuming home that night, the 
detective was followed by two men and 
stabbed, but, fortunately, not killed. Lecoq, 
thinking he recognized the count and Raoul, 
decided that they realized that the police 
suspected them of robbing the bank, and 
also that there must be an even greater 
mystery to unravel that had caused them 
to become would-be assassins. Records were 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



218 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

looked up and an amazing story came to 
light. 

Lecoq discovered that years ago Mme. 
Fauvel, then Valentine de Verberie, had 
been engaged to the count's brother, Gaston. 
In defending her name at a coimtry inn^ 
Gaston had killed a man and fled to America, 
althou^ he was thought to have been 
drowned while escaping. A son was bom 
to Valentine and given away by her mother. 
Later she had married Fauvel, who was 
told nothing. 

The story was never unearthed until 
Count Louis had squandered the family 
money and by mere chance had heard of the 
child's existence from an old nurse. He 
made inquiries. Not long after this the 
count introduced a young man to Mme. 
Fauvel as her son, to serve his own ends and 
to extract hush-money. This young man 
was called her nephew and proved to be 
Baoul Lagors. 

The situation became even more com- 
plicated. Gaston returned from America 
immensely rich, not knowing of the existence 
of his son, but determined to see his old love 
Valentine once more. Louis, however, 
realized that for his own ends Gaston and 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FILE NO. 113 219 

Mme. Fauvel must never meet. He joined 
Gaston in the south of France and got into 
his good graces. Gaston made a will leaving 
everything to Louis; then poor Gaston 
became mysteriously ill and died. Louis 
returned to Paris rich. 

Madeleine seemed to wish to delay her 
marriage. The count feared she still loved 
Prosper, so he promised Raoul a large sum 
if he would in some way ruin the cashier's 
reputation, thinking thus to hasten his own 
marriage, as he really was in love with 
Madeleine. The moment came when Raoul 
overheard Prosper telling Gypsy he con- 
stantly thought of her at the bank. He 
then went to his mother and said he would 
shoot himself if he did not have a large 
sum of money that very night to pay a 
gambling debt. She got for him the key 
to the safe. The poor lady had already 
given him all her money and jewels and had 
nothing left to bestow. At the last moment 
she tried to stop him, hence the scratch 
that was discovered later. When she in- 
quired how he knew the word that made 
up the combination, Raoul said that Prosper 
had given it to him and they were to divide 
the money between themselves. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



220 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

Owing to the anonymous letter, M. Fauvel 
intercepted his wife's mail, and one day 
found a letter from Raoul asking her to go 
to his villa. M. Fauvel followed, and, on 
entering and seeing his wife in the arms of 
the young man, pulled out his pistol to shoot, 
but fortunately it did not go off, as Gypsy, 
who had become Madeleine's maid, under 
Lecoq's instructions, in order to watch the 
house, had taken out the bullets. At this 
point the great detective appeared and told 
the banker the whole story. He then de- 
manded the 350,000 francs which had been 
stolen and Eaoul returned the money; and 
what was more remarkable still, Lecoq 
showed them papers that proved Eaoul 
was not Mme. FauveFs son, after all — ^her 
son had died — ^and the impostor was the son 
of a jockey hired by the count to play the 
part so as to secure money from Mme. 
Fauvel at the time when the count was poor, 
before Gaston had died. 

During the conversation Eaoul had made 
his escape, but no one cared, for the Fauyels 
naturally wished to keep the story secret, 
and it ended happily, for M. Fauvel forgave 
his wife her early indiscretions. Lecoq was 
just about to arrest the count for his many 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



FILE NO. 113 221 

crimes when the wicked old man went 
insane and kept repeating constantly that 
his brother Gaston was poisoning him. 
Strange to relate, the great Lecoq married 
pretty Mme. Gypsy, whom he had known 
and loved for years. Prosper, of course, 
married Madeleine, and M. Fauvel retired 
from the bank. The firm is now called 
Prosper Bertomy and Company. This amaz- 
ing record of crime still remains in the police 
court in Paris and can be found in File 
No. 113. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



DELAND 

Ji/fABGABETTA WADE CAMPBELL was 
^ ^^ bom at Allegheny, Pennsylvania^ February 
2Sy 1867. When only sixteen she went to New 
York to stvdy drawing and design and later taught 
them. In 1880 she married Lorin Deland, famous 
as sometime footbaU strategist against the enemies 
of Harvard. 

In 1886 appeared " The Old Garden,'' a col- 
lection of verse. It is a characteristic title; for 
many years Mrs. Deland has each winter grown in 
her own house in Boston great numbers of Dutch 
bulbs, which she sells at an annual function to her 
friends and the public, for the benefit of her favorite 
charities. As she does all the labor herself, it is 
a singularly personal form of good works. 

Only two years later came ^'John Ward, 
Preacher,^' a book which won the author vride 
recognition. There have been many others between 
(hat and ^^The Awakening of Helena Bichie^^ in 
1906, including ''Old Chester Tales'' in 1898, in 
which she made famous her childhood home. *' The 
Iron Woman'' appeared in 1911. 

The people in Mrs. Deland' s books are not mere 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 




'V/'/7/ 



MARGARET DELAND 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



DELAND 223 

pegs on which to hang the incidents of a story; 
they are real human beings engaged with the 
problems of life as it comes to them — as real as the 
woman who plies her boat wUh the red sail of a 
summer^s day at Kennebunkporty of whom the 
natives say^ " There goes Margaret Delandl'^ 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE AWAKENING OF 
HELENA RICHIE 

By MARGARET DELAND 

Condensation by 
SARA. WARE BASSETT 

TN 1906 Margaret Deland^ after having 
^ written several other books^ gave to the 
public the fruit of her maturer skill in The 
Awakening of Helena Richie. The volume 
is dedicated to Lorin Deland^ who has since 
died, and no wife could have reared a more 
magnificent monument to honor one dear 
to her than in this masterpiece which stands, 
and will stand, for all that is best in creative 
fiction. 

The story is simple. 

Stripped of the charm of its setting and 
the subtle delicacy of its treatment, we have 
a tale presenting few characters and with 
no very extended scope for action. It is in 
its emotional quality that its power lies; 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE AWAKENING OF HELENA RICHIE 225 

and this emotion centers about the moral 
conflict of the heroine and her transition 
from a creature seeking mere happiness to a 
woman of alert conscience and aroused soul. 

The scene of the novel is the same small 
Pennsylvania town in which Mrs. Deland 
had placed two previous books^ Old Chester 
Tales and Doctor Lavendarj and it is with 
pleasure that we continue in this later work 
our acquaintance with several of the char- 
acters already introduced to us in these 
earUer writmgs. 

At the opening of the story Mrs. Richie 
has come to Old Chester and taken up 
residence in the "Stuffed Animal House," 
so called because its former owner was a 
taxidermist. She is little known to the 
villagers, living an isolated existence and 
shimning any intimacy with the townfolk; 
nevertheless, she is universally respected. 
There is, to be sure, an atmosphere of mys- 
tery enshrouding this beautiful stranger 
who is possessed of a culture and poise that 
place her a stratum above the simply bred 
inhabitants of the sleepy little settlement, 
but since she goes to church, is quiet and 
decorous, and gives herself no airs, she 
furnishes no cause for criticism. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



226 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

Her only visitor is Mr. lioyd Prior, known 
to Old Chester as her brother. 

As the story proceeds, however, we are 
made aware that Prior is not her brother, 
but is a Philadelphia widower with one 
daughter whom he idolizes, and that he and 
Mrs. Richie have for thirteen years been 
living together, awaiting the death of Fred- 
eric, Helena's husband, whose denuse will 
leave them free to marry. Frederic has 
been a dissipated maxi who, when not him- 
self, has been responsible for the death of 
the Richie baby; and he is now living a 
dissolute life in Paris. The tragedy of the 
baby's death has been the culminating 
factor in tinning his wife's hatred and con- 
tempt for him into revulsion, and determin- 
ing her to desert him and go to Prior. To 
her lover she gives all the affection which 
the loss of her child and the destruction 
of her hopes have turned back into her 
nature. 

Prior, on the other hand, has loved her 
in the past, but now, after thirteen years of 
deferred happiness, his passion is binned 
out. He is tired of her. Alice, his daughter, 
is growing up, and he realizes the indiscre- 
tion of the entanglement; furthermore, his 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE AWAKENING OF HELENA RICHIE 227 

business demands his time; it is less and 
less convenient to come to Old Chester; 
and he is no longer young. He is a selfish, 
sensual being, with the typical masculine 
distaste for everything that renders him 
uncomfortable either in mind or in body. 
While he is willing, in an indolent sort of 
way, to continue his relation with Mrs. 
Richie, is even honorable enough to marry 
her if he must, it is obvious that he would 
gladly be rid of the whole affair. 

But to Helena Richie this incident is not 
an *' affair.' ' It is her life. She loves Prior 
with a devotion engendered by her lonely, 
heart-starved existence, and she looks for- 
ward to the moment when Frederic's death 
shall release her from her present precarious 
position and allow her to confront the world 
with a clear name. That an ultimate mar- 
riage between them will wipe out the blot 
on their past she does not question. In the 
mean time she can only possess her soul of 
patience and make the best of her enforced 
seclusion. No one knows her secret. No 
one can know it. Therefore she feels quite 
secure — ^that is, as secure as is possible in 
the face of the ever-present danger of 
exposure. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



228 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

Into this fevered life of hers three im- 
portant characters project themselves: Doc- 
tor Lavendar, the minister of Old Chester; 
Doctor William King, the village physician; 
and David, an orphim child whom the rector 
has befriended and for whom he is desirous 
of finding a home. Of all Mrs. Deland's 
creations, none, perhaps, is more beloved 
than is Doctor Lavendar. Wise, benign, 
humorous, yet just at all times — ^a man 
who is never to be turned aside from a 
principle by idle sentimentality. Doctor 
King is not imlike him in this unflinching 
fealty to duty and to honor. 

These two persons put their heads to- 
gether and decide that, since^ Mrs. Richie 
leads such a solitary life and is abimdantly 
able, she is the one to take the homeless 
David. The conspirators proceed with ex- 
treme caution. The child is brought to 
Doctor Lavendar^s house and Mrs. Richie 
is given the opportunity to see him. 

He is a quaint, winsome, appealing little 
fellow — a decided personality, and one of 
the most delightful and consistent child 
portraits in modem fiction. His greatest 
attraction lies in the fact that one can never 
be sure what he will say next. Once, when 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE AWAKENING OF HELENA RICHIE 229 

Doctor Lavendar is telling him a story^ 
he keeps his eyes fixed so intently on the 
man's face that the old gentleman is much 
flattered. 

"Well, well, you are a great boy for 
stories, aren't you?'' remarks the delighted 
minister. 

"You've talked seven minutes," said David, 
thoughtfully, "and you haven't moved your 
upper jaw once." 

As can be imagined, the child makes 
instant conquest of Mrs. Bichie, who insists 
on fitting him out with tiny garments and 
brings him in triumph to the "Stuffed 
Animal House." 

Day by day the tie that binds her to 
David strengthens imtil we see this affection 
the dominant motive of her life. It even 
overshadows her love for Prior, although 
it is some time before she is conscious that 
it does so. 

In the mean while, quite by chance, the 
security of her miniature world is shaken 
to its foimdations. There lives in Old 
Chester a youth much Mrs. Richie's junior, 
Sam Wright, who has drifted into the habit 
of calling on her and who falls in love with 
her. It is the blind worship of one who 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



230 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

has never known passion^ and in an attempt 
to break up the boy's infatuation his doting 
grandfather comes to Mrs. Richie and half 
in irritation accuses her of not being a good 
woman. The shot is a random one, but 
the instant the charge is made the speaker 
realizes he has hit upon the truth. Helena's 
anger at his gibes and sarcasm is like the 
whirlwind. 

Bvi the Lord was not in the wind. 

It is Sam Wright's suicide that first bringa 
home to her the gravity of defying social 
responsibility. What she has hitherto re- 
garded as a scorn for convention she now 
sees to be a crime against humanity. All 
her being is rocked with self-reproach. 

BiU the Lord was not in the earthquake. 

It is not imtil Doctor King forces her to 
confess her guilt and tells her she must 
give up David that we reach the climax of the 
drama. Then all the wild mother instinct 
of the woman leaps into being. She is a 
lioness fighting for her yoimg. She will 
give up Prior; in fact, she does ^ve him up. 
But she will not part with David. She 
begs, bribes, prays; but Willy King's con- 
science will not permit him to listen to her 
entreaties. She must send the child back 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE AWAKENING OF HELENA RICHIE 231 

to Doctor Lavendar^ or he must acquaint 
the good minister with the entire story. 

In an effort to forestall this action Mrs. 
Richie herself goes to the rectory^ and before 
she leaves it she looks into the face of her 
own soul and pronoimces her doom. 

"The whirlwind of anger had died out; 
the shock of responsibility had subsided; 
the hiss of those flames of shame had ceased. 
She was in the center of all the tumults, 
where lies the quiet mind of God." 

When Doctor Lavendar asks her if she 
thinks herself worthy to keep the child she 
humbly whispers, "No." 

And after the fire^ the still Small Voice. 

At last the woman's conscience is aroused, 
her repentance is sincere, and we have the 
true "awakening of Helena Richie." 

How wisely Doctor Lavendar meets this 
crisis in the shattered life, allowing her to 
taste to the full the dregs of remorse and 
suffering, and yet how mercifully and gently 
he leads her upward toward hope and a 
desire for restitution, constitute the remain- 
der of the story. 

The kihd old man suggests that she make 
her future home in a distant city where 
her past will not follow her and where she 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



232 ONE HUNDRED BEST N0VEI5 CONDENSED 

may start anew, and he asks that on the 
mommg of her departure she come to him 
for a package which he wishes her to take 
with her on her journey. The reader shares 
her shock of joyous surprise when David 
emerges from the comer of the stage-coach, 
crying, "I'm the package!" 

"Doctor Lavendar took both her ihands. 
. . . 'Helena/ he said, /your Master came 
into the world as a little child. Receive 
Him in your heart by faith, with thanks- 
givmg.''' 

So ends the novel. 

To tear the skeleton of the plot from its 
exquisite setting is almost a sacrilege. It 
is like dragging the perfume from a flower. 
One must read the book to gain a true sense 
of its exceptional beauty and fineness. 

It has been successfully dramatized and the 
title r61e ably and artistically portrayed 
by Margaret Anglin; there is also an 
"Anglin Edition" of the story, attractively 
illustrated by pictures taken from the play. 

Printed by pennission of, and arrangonent with, Harper 
& BroB.y authorised publishers. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 




LEW WALLACE 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



WALLACE 

JEWIS WALLACE, generally known by the 
-^-^ shorter name Lew, was bam in 1827 at 
BrookvilUy Indiana, and perhaps was, quite un- 
consciously, potent in spreading the idea, dear to 
some, thai in that state is located the literary center 
of this country. He died in 1905. 

Like the students of to-day in the great struggle, 
he left his books for ttie Mexican War. He served 
again in the Civil War and rose to be Major-General 
in (he Volunteer army. As after the Mexican 
episode, he returned again to (he law; he was 
Governor of Utah from 1878 to 1881, and minister to 
Turkey from 1881 to 1885, when as a good diplomat 
he won (he esteem of the late unlamented Abdul 
Hamid and could really put through business with 
(hat scientifically dilatory tyrant. 

He is known by his three books *' The Fair God" 
{1873), ''BennHur'' {1880), and ''The Prince of 
India" {1893). The first is a very clever recon- 
struction of (he story of (he conquest of Mexico 
by the Spaniards. The reader feels a great symr 
pathy with the highly developed natives who fell 
helpless before (he superior arms of the invaders. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



234 ONE HUNDRED BEST N0VEI5 CONDENSED 

The story, however, is by no means to he put in the 
same dass with **BenrHwrJ^ The shiU, the knowl- 
edge, the reverence with which the story of Christ 
is told (largely through the lives of others) have made 
^'Ben-Hur^* one of the books to take a secure hold 
on the public, both as book and on the stage, where 
the famous chariot-race has won a classic place. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



BEN-HUR: A Tale of the Christ 

By LEW WALLACE 

Condensation by 
PROF. WILLIAM FENWICK HARRIS 

"HTHE workmen put their hands to the 
'■' cross and carried it, burden and all, 
to the place of planting. At a word they 
dropped the tree into the hole; and the 
body of the Nazarene also dropped heavily 
and hung by the bleeding hands. Still no 
cry of pain — only the exclamation divinest 
of all recorded exclamations, 'Father, for- 
give them, for they know not what they do.' 
The cross, reared now above all other 
objects, and standing singly out against 
the sky, was greeted with a burst of delight; 
and all who could see and read the writing 
upon the board over the Nazarene's head 
made haste to decipher it. Soon as read, the 
legend was adopted by them and com- 
municated, and presently the whole mighty 
concourse was ringing the salutation from 



VOL. I. — 19 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



236 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

side to side, and repeating it with laughter ^ 

and groans: ' 

'''King of the Jews! Hail, King of the 
Jews!' 

"The sun was rising rapidly to noon; 
the hills bared their brown breasts lovingly 
to it; the more distant mountains rejoiced 
in the purple with which it so regaUy dressed 
them. In the city the temples, palaces, 
towers, pinnacles, and all points of beauty 
and prominence seemed to lift themselves 
into the unrivaled brilliance, as if they 
knew the pride they were giving the many 
who from time to time turned to look at 
them. Suddenly a dimness began to fill the 
sky and cover the earth — ^at first no more 
than a scarce-perceptible fading of the day; 
a twilight out of time; an evening gliding 
in upon the splendors of noon. But it 
deepened, and directly drew attention, 
whereat the noise of the shouting and laugh- 
ter fell off, and men, doubting their senses, 
gazed at one another curiously; then they 
looked to the sun again; then at the moun- 
tains, getting farther away; at the sky 
and the near landscape, sinking in shadow; 
at the hill upon which the tragedy was 
enacting; and from all these they gazed 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



BEN-HUR: A TALE OP THE CHRIST 237 

at one another again, and turned pale, and 
held then* peace. 

'*'It is only a mist or passing cloud/ 
Simonides said; soothingly, to Esther, who 
was alarmed. *It will brighten presently/ 

"Ben-Hur did not think so. 

"'It is not a mist or a cloud/ he said. 
'The spirits who live in the air — ^the prophets 
and saints — are at work in mercy to them- 
selves and nature. I say to you, Simonides, 
truly as God lives, He who hangs yonder 
is the Son of God.* 

''And leaving Simonides lost in wonder 
at such a speech from him, he went where 
Balthazar was kneeling near by, and laid 
his hand upon the good man's shoulder. 

" ' wise Egyptian, hearken ! Thou alone 
wert right — ^the Nazarene is indeed the Son 
of God.' 

"Balthazar drew him down to him and 
replied, feebly, 'I saw Him a child in the 
manger where He was first laid; it is not 
strange that I knew Him sooner than thou: 
but, oh, that I should live to see this day! 
Would that I had died with my brethren! 
Happy Melchior! Happy Gaspar!' 

"'Comfort thee!' said Ben-Hur. 'Doubt- 
less they too are here/ " 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



238 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

Within the frame of the story of Christ 
18 told the tale of Ben-Hur, beginning with 
the appearance of the three Wise Men, Bal- 
thazar, Melchior, and Caspar, and ending 
with the sublime tragedy on Golgotha. 
From the days of the scenes at the manger 
imtil the culmination of the great story, 
the figure of Christ appears but once, and 
that for a moment, but over all that happens 
in the intervening years hovers the gentle 
spiritj thrilling as the episodes are in them- 
selves, strongly as the characters are por- 
trayed, they are but a preparation for what 
is to follow, a mere worldly setting for Him 
who was too great for all save a few to 
understand at that time. 

Some twenty-one years after the scenes 
at the manger, a young Jew, Ben-Hur, a 
prince in Jerusalem, rich, happy, ambitious, 
was standing by a parapet of his palace, 
watching the progress of Valerius Cratus, 
imperial governor of Judea. As the Roman 
passed beneath the wall amid the jeers and 
insults of the Jews, the young prince leaned 
far out to see the new governor, a loose tile 
was displaced, and, as bitter fate would 
have it, fell full upon the governor. The 
accident was not fatal, but it was an oppor- 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



BEN-HUR: A TALE OF THE CHRIST 239 

tiinity for exemplary justice, especially as 
the estates of the Jews were very desirable 
to the governor and his friend Messala, 
hitherto almost brother to Ben-Hur though 
the latter had been. The unhappy Jew 
was sent as a rower to the galleys, where 
the limit of life was at most but a year. 
His mother and sister were immured in a 
secret cell in the Tower of Antonia, where 
they were doomed to the fate of lepers. 
The only act of kindness Ben-Hur could 
remember during 4he years that followed 
was on the day he was dragged to the galleys. 
"The hand laid kindly upon his shoulder 
awoke the unfortunate man, and, looking 
up, he saw a face he never forgot — ^the face 
of a boy about his own age, shaded by locks 
of yellowish bright chestnut hair; a face 
lighted by dark-blue eyes, at the time so 
soft, so appealing, so full of love and holy 
purpose, that they had all the power of 
command and will.'' That was in Nazareth. 
Now Ben-Hur in time became a rower, 
on the flagship of Arrius, duumvir and 
admiral; how the flagship was destroyed 
in a great sea-fight; how Ben-Hur rescued 
the admiral, became his adopted son and 
his heir, learned at Rome the manner of 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



240 ONE mjNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

Roman war and Roman sports, returned to 
the East a Roman officer in the train of a 
consul setting forth on a great campaign 
against the Parthians; how he discovered 
that his father's old steward, Simonides, 
had succeeded in saving from confiscation 
the vast intangible wealth of the Hurs and 
had multiplied it many times, till the young 
Roman-Jew was the richest private citizen 
in the world; the discovery that Messala 
was entered for the highest stake in the 
great sporting event of the Orient; how 
Ben-Hur won the affection of Ilderim, the 
Arab sheik, who had entered his steeds 
of the desert for the great event — ^all this 
leads up to the dramatic encounter of the 
famous chariot-race. The author drew his 
description of the race from one written 
over twenty-three hundred years ago by 
the tragic poet Sophocles. It is one of the 
curiosities of literature that the great scene, 
through the pages of Lew Wallace's novel, 
has become as famous on our stage as it was 
so long ago on that of Greece. 

By his victory in the arena Ben-Hur 
exacted ancient Jewish justice on his hated 
adversary, who was crushed in body and 
impoverished in fortune — ^he had wagered 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



BEN-HUR: A TALE OP THE CHRIST 241 

on his success all the wealth he had stolen 
from his fonner friend. The victor almost 
fell prey, however, to the vampire daughter 
of Egypt who was rival for his love with the 
gentle Jewish Esther. But henceforth his 
thoughts were concentrated on Him who 
was attracting all eyes. Was he Messiah 
or king? Ben-Hur, in his hatred of Rome, 
in his pride of race, dreamed only of a king 
of this world, who should ri^t ancient 
wrongs and exalt his chosen people. And 
so he threw himself with all his force, with 
all his wealth, with all the knowledge gained 
at Rome, into making secure and strong 
the way of the king whom he would follow. 
But it was for one supreme in things spiritual 
rather than material that the way was being 
made ready. And Ben-Hur's mother, rescued 
with her daughter from her long imprison- 
ment by a chance change of jailers, but 
hopeless lepers both, saw the truth sooner 
than her son. 

"*0 Master, Master!' she cried as He 
passed upon the road, 'Thou seest our need; 
Thou canst make us clean. Have mercy 
upon us — ^mercy I ' 

"'Believest thou I am able to do this?' 
He asked. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



242 ONE mjNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

"'Thou art He of whom the prophets 
spake — ^Thou art the Messiah!' she replied. 
His eyes grew radiant^ His manner confident. 

"'Woman/ He said, 'great is thy faith; 
be it unto thee even as thou wilt.' " 

And so, in the end, Ben-Hur recognized 
what Balthazar had known from the begin- 
ning. "0 wise Egyptian, hearken! Thou 
alone wert right — ^the Nazarene is indeed 
the Son of God!" 

Published by pennisBion of, and arrangement with, Harper 
& Bros., authorized publishers. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 




WILLIAM MAKEPEACE THACKERAY 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THACKERAY 

prriLLI AM MAKEPEACE THACKERAY 
^^ was intensely loved by his friends and 
as much disliked hy his enemies. Svch person- 
alities as Tennyson^ FitzGerald, and Charlotte 
Bronte were unswerving in their devotion^ bui (he 
hangers-on in Grub Street, the lesser fry who envied 
his social successes, regarded him as an insufferable 
snob. 

He did, indeed, take a quite childlike delight in 
dining with (he socially eminent. He frankly 
liked to be pointed out as ^'(he great Mr. Thack- 
eray,^^ and as frankly he resented the gross famili- 
arity of Tom, Dick, or Harry who chanced to have 
known him in Bohemia. But it was rather (hat 
he pitilessly discerned and detested the toady and 
(he meanrspirited flunJcy (han tiiat he was a snob. 

Thackeray lived at the period when weaUh wi(houi 
manners or intellect generated widespread desire 
for social success. At the same time ^^The Back 
Kitchen'^ and ^^The Cave of Harmony, ^^ immor- 
talized by Colonel Newcome, were (he most eagerly 
frequented haunts of (he day. Thackeray knew 
every aspect of this rather vulgar society. He was 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



244 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CX)NDENSED 

as much at ease wW^ the Prime MinUter of England 
as with the proprietor of the **Back Kitdien.^' 
With hie keen satiric sense and sharp witj (he 
chronicler of snobs flayed it; with his tender heart 
and kindly humor the great novelist understood U. 
In his own way he strove to regenerate it. 

These qualities of heart and mind, which live 
in his hooks, created the puzzle of his personality. 

He was a Cynic! By kia life aU wrought 
Of ffeneroue ode, mUd wards, and gentle ways; 

His heart wide open to all kindly ih/ofught, 

His hand so guick to give^ his tongue to praise! 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 




VICJTOR MAME HUGO 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



HUGO 

TT is donb^ul whether any other hooka of modem 
-^ times have won such widespread and immediate 
popvlarity as Victor Hrigo^s great romances. 
America and England thrilled to DickenSf hvi it 
was not until later that he captured continental 
audiences. Hugo^s ^'Les Mis4rables*^ v)as pub- 
lished simultaneously in Paris, London, Brussels, 
Milan, Madrid, Rotterdam, Leipsic, and Budapest. 
And across the seas, in the darkest moments of our 
Civil War, soldiers pored over the English trans- 
laiion hy their camp-fires and debated about Jean 
Vaijean and the good Bishop Myriel. 

Four years later appeared " Toilers qf the Sea,^^ 
(hat amazing epic of the deeps, and again the world 
almost halted its daily work to read about a simple 
sailor and his titanic hazards among monsters 
of the sea. This tale Swinburne pronounced 
^^unsurpassed even among the works of its author 
for splendor of imagination and of style, for pathos 
and sublimity of truihJ^ 

Hugo was an exile from his native land when 
these navels were published. When Napoleon III 
mounted the throne, the novelist, a fiery republican, 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



254 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

jawnd it wise to turn his hack upon Paris. He 
fled to Brusseh, disguised as a laborer, and then 
settled in the Channel Islands. There he lived for 
nearly twenty years, although each summer he 
traveled on (he Continent. He did not re-enter 
France until the downfall of Napoleon foUouring 
the disaster at Sedan. 

What France thought of him was evidenced at 
his funeral. More than one million people lined 
the streets of Paris as the procession moved to the 
Pantheon, where he was buried in that last resting- 
place of the great men of France. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE TOILERS OF THE SEA 

By VICTOR HUGO 

Condensation by 
JAMES B. CONNOLLY 

/^NE Christmas morning; Deruchette, a 
^^ charming young girl, wrote the name 
of a man, Gilliatt, in the snow. Gilliatt, 
seeing the name and knowing who wrote it, 
never forgot. 

Gilliatt was a yomig man of doubtful 
birth and unpopular disposition who lived 
by himself in an old wreck of a house in St. 
Sampson in the Isle of Guernsey. He was a 
fisherman; also a carpenter, a wheelwright, 
a sort of engineer when need be. He was 
also a dreamer of dreams. 

Deruchette lived with her imcle, Mess 
Lethierry, a man at once good-natured, 
intolerant, superstitious, and progressive. 
In his wandering days Lethierry had be- 
friended Bantaine,an adventurer, who repaid 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



266 ONE mJNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

this kindness by running off with 50,000 
francs of Lethierry's, the savings of forty 
years and intended for Deruchette's dowry. 

However, Deruchette had still his steam- 
boat, the Durande. She at least would not 
fail him. Other steamboats failed, but not 
his Durande — ^this because of her wonderful 
engines. The master of the Durande was 
Sieur Clubin, who had built up a reputation 
for high respectability. He was a capable, 
prudent seaman and a wonderful swimmer. 
Also he was a man who knew how to bide 
his time. 

In one of his trips to the mainland Clubin 
encountered the thief Rantaine as he was 
about to leave the country with a fortune 
of 75,000 francs. At the point of a revolver 
Clubin took from Rantaine the 75,000 francs, 
and at once, although it was foggy, set sail 
in the Durande for St. Sampson. 

The Durande was wrecked on some rocks 
in the Channel. Clubin disembarked his 
passengers and crew in the long-boat. For 
himself, he would go down with his ship. 
The passengers and crew, arriving safely in 
St. Sampson, were loud in their praise of 
the heroic captain. 

All Lethierry's hopes for Deruchette had 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE TOILERS OF THE SEA 257 

lain in the Durande. He besought men 
to go out to the wreck to see if there was 
hope for her or if Clubin remained alive. 
They went, Gilliatt first of all, and returned 
to report that no Clubin was there and 
that the Durande was hopelessly wrecked. 
Only her engines remained intact. 

Her engines! The word roused Lethierry 
from his despair. Her engines! His engines, 
which he had designed himself! They were 
the real value of the ship! If he could but 
recover the engines! But how? What man 
could devise the means to save them? The 
superhuman being who could do that, why — 
he should marry Deruchette. 

A man pushed his way throu^ the crowd 
siUTOunding Mess Lethierry and his niece. 
"You would marry him to Deruchette? '^ 
said the man. It was GiUiatt. 

Mess Lethierry raised a solemn hand. 
"I pledge myself to it in God's name!" 

Next day Gilliatt set sail. With extraor- 
dinary skill he maneuvered to the one spot 
near the wreck where it might be pos- 
sible to moor his sloop. This nook was four 
hundred yards from the wreck, too far for 
the sleeping-place of a man who had not a 
minute to waste. Yet he could not bunk 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



258 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

on the hull of the Durande — a sea might 
come in the night and sweep him away. 

He discovered a little plateau on the top 
of one of the Douvres pinnacles. He as- 
cended the pinnacle by means of a knotted 
cord; every time he made his way up or 
down he risked his life^ but there his bed 
must be, for time was everything. And for 
weeks he lived on the Douvres rocks at his 
work — ^work that demanded the knowledge 
of a sailor, a carpenter, an engineer, a 
blacksmith. 

Incredible toil! To repair pulley-blocks 
and construct hoisting-tackle; to reshape 
broken joists and make old sails into twine; 
to cut iron bars into files and long spikes; 
to take apart and stow the paddle-wheels; 
to resharpen hatchets and renew saw teeth 
—these were but the beginning of his 
preparations. 

And more than toil. Part of the food 
which he had brought with him was washed 
into the sea, and he dared not leave the 
wreck unguarded to sail to Guernsey for a 
fresh supply; so he gathered the tiny shell- 
fish from the rocks and hunted the crabs 
which ran in and out of crevices. 

One day he pursued a crab into a cave. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE TOILERS OF THE SEA 259 

While peering about; up to his waist in 
water, he felt something rough, cold, slimy 
coil itself around his right arm. Its pressure 
was like a tightening cord, its steady per- 
sistence like that of a screw. A second cold 
coil wound itself around his body; a third, 
a fourth, a fifth lashed themselves aroimd 
him. He could scarcely breathe. 

Suddenly a round slimy mass darted 
toward him. It was the head of the devil- 
fish. 

Gilliatt had his knife; his left arm was 
still free. The monster stretched out a 
sixth tentacle for the free arm, which would 
mean Gilliatt's sure death; but with one 
superb circular stroke Gilliatt whipped oflf 
the slimj head. The tentacles relaxed, fell 
away; M was dead. 

Gilliatt had still to get his crab. He 
looked into the deeper recesses of the cave 
and found the skeleton of a man. Around 
the ribs was a leather belt. On the belt 
was a name, Clubin. Attached to the belt 
was a flat, tightly sealed little iron box. 
Within the box were three sheets of paper, 
Bank of England notes of 1,000 each; in 
all, 75,000 francs. 

But the engines were what he had come 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



260 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

for. He toiled on, and one evening he sailed 
into St. Sampson and tied his sloop, weighted 
down with the Durande^s engines, to Le- 
thieixy's wharf. He hummed a plaintive 
air which he had once heard Deruchette 
play on her piano. 

It was five years since GiUiatt had first 
seen Deruchette. In all that time he had 
never spoken to her. He knew her as men 
know the morning star, at a distance. Once, 
seeing her with her uncle — ^he had dared to 
pass quite near. He fancied that she smiled. 

He walked noiselessly now toward Le- 
thierry's house. He saw above him the 
windows of Deruchette's room. In the gar- 
den he saw Deruchette herself. A night- 
ingale was singing. The night was inex- 
pressibly silent. 

There was some one with Deruchette. It 
was a man, the young Episcopalian curate 
whose life, Gilliatt recalled, he had once 
saved from the high tide of the Gild-Hohn- 
'Ur rock. The curate had offered him a 
sovereign, which Gilliatt had refused, sajdng 
it was no matter. The curate had then 
pressed upon him a Bible. 

The curate had the beauty of a pale head 
and face of a pictured angel. He spoke a 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE TOILERS OF THE SEA 261 

language which echoed the rhythm of the 
sacred Psalms. He spoke now. Deruchette 
spoke. Their speech was of love. They 
embraced. Gilliatt stole off in the night. 

Lethierry was transported at the recovery 
of his wonderful engines. "I will build a 
hull around them," he said. "I shall have 
to borrow, but my credit is good. Only for 
that villain of a Clubin — see, here is a note 
from Rantaine. He gave Clubin for me, he 
says, seventy-five thousand francs, equal 
to what he stole from me with interest." 

"Here," said Gilliatt, "are the seventy- 
five thousand francs." He handed Lethierry 
the little iron box with the three 1,000 notes. 

Lethierry embraced him. "You more- 
than-man ! " he exclaimed. "You shall marry 
Deruchette at once ! " 

"I shall not marry Deruchette." 

Lethierry insisted He stormed. Gilliatt 
was like iron. Lethierry grew redder, Gil- 
liatt paler. Gilliatt had his way. Deru- 
chette and the curate were married. They 
set sail for England on the packet Cashmere. 

Gilliatt crossed at low tide on the stones 
which led to Gild-Holm-'Ur rock to see the 
Cashmere pass. The tide was coming in, 
but the Cashmere was coming out. She 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



262 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

moved slowly in the light breeze* The tide 
crept up on Gild-Holm-'Ur, but Gilliatt's 
eyes were for the Cashmere. The tide crept 
higher — ^to Gilliatt's knees — ^but in a spot 
of sunlight on the Cashmere were Deruchette 
and the curate. Her head was on his 
shoulder, his arm around her waist. There 
was a silence like the calm of heaven on the 
sea. 

The packet passed on. She was beyond 
the waters of the harbor. The tide was 
then to GiUiatt's shoulders, but the packet 
was still within sight. She became a spot 
in the haze. The spot dwindled, disap- 
peared. As she vanished the head of GiUiatt 
was engulfed. 

Clothing was visible but the sea. 



S^/ 



r Y' 



END OF VOL. I 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



Dlitized by Google 



Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS 

CONDENSED 




GEORGE EUOT 



One Hundred 
Best Novels Condensed 



> m > 



Edited By ' ' 

EDWIN A. GROZIER 

Assisted by 
CHARLES E L. WINGATE and CHARLES H. LINCOLN 

Fully Illustrated 

IN FOUR VOLUMES 
VOLUME THREE 




HARPER & BROTHERS, PUBLISHERS 

NEW YORK AND LONDON 
MCMXX 



- • < 



■ • 



V.J 



TO 



Omb Hundrbd Best Novels Comdbnsbo 



Copyright X9X9> xpao. by the Post Publishing Co. (The Boston Post) 

Cop3nigiit in the United Kingdom, the Dominions, its Colonies 

and dependendest under the Copsrright Act, by The 

Post Publishing Co.. Boston Mass.. U. S. A. 

An rights reserved. 

O-TJ 






TABLE OF CONTENTS 
VOLUME ni 

PAGE 

* ADAM BEDE Geobob Euot 3 

Condensation by Ellebt Sedgwick, 
Editor of TU AUantic Monthly 

^ TESS of the D'URBERVILLES . Thomas Hardy 13 
Condensation by Rxtth McCall 

DON QUIXOTE .... Miguel de Cervantes 24 
Condensation by Nathan Haskell Dole 
Author of the PUgrima 

EAST LYNNE Mrs. Henry Wood 34 

Condensation by Ruth H. Frost 

THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. Alexandre 

Dumas, Sr 44 

Condensation by Alfred S. Clark 

PAUL AND VIRGINIA. Bernardin de Saint-Pierrb 54 
Condensation by Irving Bacheller 

TOM BROWN'S SCHOOL DAYS . Thomas Hughes 64 
Condensation by Prof. Willlam Fenwick Harris 

WAVERLEY Sir Wai/fer Scott 74 

Condensation by Henry T. Schnittkind, Ph.D., 
Editor of The StrcUford Journal 

DOMBEY & SON Charles Dickens 83 

Condensation by Carolinb Ticknor, 

Author of Hawthorne and his Pvbliaher, Poe^s 

Helen, etc. 



•>•■■' 



^■'^ . .: . -A i * 3 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

PAoa 

ROMOLA Gbobgb Eliot 93 

Condensation by Prof. William Fbnwick Harris 

THE LEGEND OF SLEEPY HOLLOW. WAsmNG- 

TON Irving 104 

Condensation by Ma^el Herbert Urner, 
Authoi of The Marriei Life of Hden and Warren 

THE LAST OF THE MOHICANS. James Fenimorb 

Cooper 115 

Condensation by Thomas D. Connolly 

THE WRECK OF THE "GROSVENOR." W. Clark 

Russell 125 

Condensation by James B. Connolly 

THE RIGHT OF WAY . . Sir Gilbert Parker 135 
Condensation by Helen B. Dole, 
Translator of Hugo's Owxtre'VingtrTreizet etc. 

CONISTON Winston Churchill 145 

Condensation by Hon. Samuel W. McCall, 
Former United States Representative and War 
Governor of Massachusetts 

FAR FROM THE MADDING CROWD. Thomas 

EL^RDY 155 

Condensation by Alfred S. Clark 

THE WOMAN IN WHITE . . Wilkib Collins 164 
Condensation by Alice Fox Pitts 

THE DEEMSTER Hall Cainb 173 

Condensation by Caroline Ticknor 

WATERLOO .... MM. Erckmann-Chatrian 183 
Condensation by Charles E. L. Wingatb 

HYPATIA Charles Kinosley 194 

Condensation by Prof. William Fenwick Harris 

KIDNAPPED . . . Robert Louis Stevenson 203 
Condensation by James B. Connolly 

' OLIVER TWIST Charles Dickens 213 

Condensation by Rev. Howard LaField, 
Former Dean of St. John's Military Academy 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

PAOB 

GIL BLAS Alain Ren£ lb Saqe 222 

Condensation by Nathan Haskell Dole 

PEG WOFFINGTON .... Charles Reade 232 
Condensation by Edwabd H. Crosby, 
Pla3rwright and Dramatic Critic of The Boston Post 

THE VIRGINIANS. William Makepeace Thackeray 244 
Condensation by Sara Ware Bassbtt 



ILLUSTRATIONS 

George EuOT FrwUiapiece 

Thomas HaBDT Fadno page 11 

Miguel de Cervantes " 22 

Mrs. Henrt Wood " 32 

Alexandre Dxtmas, Sr ** 42 

Saint-Pierre . " 52 

Thomas Hughes " 62 

Sir Walter Scott ........ " 72 

Charles Dickens '' 82 

George Eliot *' 91 

Washington Irving '' 102 

James Fenimore Cooper '' 113 

W. Clark Russell '* 123 

Sir Gilbert Parker '' 133 

Winston Churchill ** 143 

Thobias Hardy '' 153 

WiLKiB Collins " 163 

Hall Cainb '* 171 

Erckmann-Chatrlan ** 181 

Charles Eingslet '' 192 

Robert Louis Stevenson *' 201 

Charles Dickens '' 211 

Alain RsNfi Le Sage " 220 

Charles Reade '* 230 

William Makepeace Thackeray ... '' 242 



ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS 

CONDENSED 



.• ^ 



GEORGE ELIOT 

/^EORGE ELIOT was the pen name of the 
^^ famous English vrriter, Mary Ann {or 
Marian) Evans. She was bom in 1819 at Arhury 
Farm in Warwickshire and died at Chelsea, De- 
cember 2, 1880. Her father, Robert Evans, was the 
agent of Mr. Francis Newdgate, and the first twenty- 
one years of the novelist's life were spent on the 
Arbury estate. At her mother's death, while Miss 
Evans wa^ still in her teens, she became her father's 
hmbsekeeper and pursued her studies away from 
school and classes. All through her youth she was 
somewhat subdued by a very strict religious training, 
and she was a great reader of religious and philo- 
sophical subjects, and in later years wrote of them 
also. 

In 1841 the family moved to Coventry, and it was 
there that Miss Evans made the acquaintance of Mr. 
and Mrs. Charles Bray, and Mr. Charles Hennell, 
who became her stanch friends. Both Mr. Bray 
and Mr. Hennell were men of literary tastes; the 
latter had, just before this time, published ^^An 
Enquiry Concerning the Origin of Christianity." 

VOL. in. — 1 



2 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

Miss Evanses ideas and opinions were much affected 
by the line of thought this work contained. 

In 1851 she became the assistant editor of the 
^^Westminster Review. ^^ She made several notable 
contribuiions to the ** Review,** and during the time 
of her connection with it made the acquaintance of 
many distinguished authors of that period; among 
them, Herbert Spencer, Carlyle, Harriet Martineau, 
Francis Newman, and George Henry Lewes. Her 
friendship with Mr. Lewes led to a closer relation- 
ship, which she regarded a^ a marriage, but which 
caused much criticism among her friends. 

Miss Evans first attempted the wrUing of fiction 
in 1856, and published in ^^ Blackwood^ s Magazine^* 
the first of the ^^ Scenes of Clerical Life.^^ Although 
she received mrjxh encouragement from private 
'Sources, notably Charles Dickens, the critics were 
rather norircommittal. Then in 1859 Miss Evans 
-wrote and published what in the judgment of many 
is her masterpiece, '^Adam BedeJ^ It has been said 
that in the character of Adam Beds she drew a por- 
trait of her father; and certainly Dinah Morris, 
the heroine of the story, was one of her own favorite 
characters. There followed **The Mill on the 
Floss,'' ''Silas Mamer,'' and ''Felix HoUJ' In 
the latter work she aired her views on the svi^ect of 
Radicalism. 



ADAM BEDE 

By GEORGE ELIOT 

Condensation by 
ELLERY SEDGWICK 

T^HAT last year of the eighteenth century 
^ Hayslope was a pleasant neighborhood to 
live in. It was far enough away from the 
noise of "Boney's" battles to sleep in peace. 
Men chatted of crops and rents, and listened 
to the gossip of women folk regarding Dinah 
Morris of Snowfield, Mrs. Poyser's own 
niece, who had turned "Methody" preacher 
and would stand right before men on the 
village green, talking to them of the com- 
fort they could find in their friend, Jesus 
Christ. 

And, worse still, Dinah was so attractive 
Mid so gravely loving that the men, and 
women, too, gladly listened to her. Big 
Adam Bade, the carpenter, would have liked 
to see more of her, had he eyes for any one 
except old Poyser's niece, Hetty Sorrel. As 



4 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

for Hetty, she had no thought for Adam; 
Captain Arthur Donnithome, heir of the 
estate, had whispered too many things in her 
pretty ear. 

It was natural enough. There, in her 
aunt's white dairy, rounding her dimpled 
arm to lift a pound of butter out of the scale, 
Hetty had the beauty of a fluffy kitten. Her 
large, dark eyes had a soft roguishness, and 
her curly hair, pushed away imder her cap, 
stole back in delicate rings on her forehead. 
Of course, the dashing captain had no foolish 
ideas about marriage, but then, as he bent 
over her shoulder, he was soldier enough to 
feel his head turn very fast. He had no wish 
to harm her, you may be sure of that, for he 
had great pride in the Donnithome estate, 
and it is pleasant for a rich young man to be 
liked and admired. 

One August evening Adam walked home- 
ward through a grove of grand beeches, the 
glory of the estate. As carpenter and woods- 
man, he delighted in fine trees, and paused to 
look at a huge beech which stood at the 
turning before the grove ended in an arch- 
way of boughs. 

All his life he remembered that moment, 
for there, not twenty yards away, stood two 



ADAM BEDE 

figures, close, with clasped hands. They 
started. The girl hurried away, while Arthur 
Donnithome walked slowly forward. He 
was flushed and excited, but reassured him- 
self by remembering that Adam was a sen- 
sible person, not likely to babble. That the 
big, sober carpenter loved Hetty,Arthur had 
no idea. 

"Well, Adam," said Arthur, carelessly, 
"you've been looking at the fine old beeches, 
eh? I overiiook pretty Hetty Sorrel as I 
was going to my old lodge in the woods; so 
I took her to the gate, and asked for a kiss 
for my pains. Good night." 

Adam dared not move lest he spring on 
Arthur like a tiger. 

"Stop a bit," he said in a hard, peremptory 
voice. 

"What do you mean?" Arthur felt his 
temper rising. 

"I mean that, instead of the honorable 
man we've all believed you, you're a selfish 
scoundrel!" 

Arthur found it hard to control himself. 

"Well, Adam, i)erhaps I have gone too far 
in taking notice of the pretty little thing and 
stealing a few kisses. You're such a grave 
fellow you don't understand temptations. 



6 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

Let's say no more. The whole thmg will 
soon be forgotten/' 

''No, by God/' said Adam, "it 'U not be 
soon forgot, as you've come in between her 
and me when she might have loved me. 
It '11 not be soon forgot, as you've robbed me 
of my happiness when I thought you my 
best friend. You're a coward and a scoim- 
drel, and I despise you." 

The color rushed back to Arthur's face. 
He dealt a lightning blow which sent Adam 
staggering back, but the delicate-handed 
gentleman was no match for the workman's 
great strength. After a fierce struggle Ar- 
thur fell motionless, while Adam, in sudden 
revulsion of feeling, knelt over him like an 
image of despair gazing on death. 

To his intense reUef , Arthur gradually re- 
vived. Adam got him to his feet, supported 
him to the little cabin, and laid him on a 
couch. Then he spoke out. 

''I don't forget what's owing to you as a 
gentleman, but in this thing we are man to 
man. Either tell me she can never be my 
wife — ^tell me you're lying when you say you 
haven't harmed her — or else write her a 
letter, telling her the truth that you won't 
see her again." 



ADAM BEDE 

Arthur struggled, suffered, promised, and 
Adam, half comforted, left, not knowing that 
there, in the waste-basket, hastily stuffed 
under the papers, lay a woman's silk kerchief. 

When Hetty read Arthur's letter she gave 
way to despair. Then, by one of those con- 
vulsive, motiveless actions by which the 
wretched leap from temporary sorrow to life- 
long misery, she determined to marry Adam. 
The big carpenter was in the seventh heaven, 
Hetty fitful and depressed. For family 
reasons, the marriage could not be hastened, 
and as the months passed she determined at 
any cost to seek out Arthur, whose regiment 
was at Windsor. Telling her uncle she was 
going to Snowfield to see Dinah for a Uttle 
change of scene before her marriage, she 
started out, ignorant of the comitry, panic- 
stricken, and forlorn, eager to shun every 
familiar face, longing only to feel again the 
protection of her lover's arms. 

On Arthur, meanwhile, life seemed again 
to smile. After rejoining his regiment, his 
sharpest regrets for Hetty began to lose their 
sting. Soon he was transferred to Ireland, 
and there learned that by his grandfather's 
death he was lord of the manor. Home he 
came, fast as chaise and postboy could drive. 



8 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

home to dear old Hayslope sleeping on the 
hill, where he was to live his life, married to 
some lovely lady, respected and appreciated 
by his tenants. A pile of letters awaited 
him. He opened the first, and, with a violent 
convulsion shaking his whole frame, read the 
words, ^^ Hetty Sorrel is in prison for the 
crime of child murder J ^ 

Clutching the letter, Arthm* rushed from 
the room like a himted man, and, springing 
to the saddle of a waiting horse, set off at a 
gallop. 

That very evening a young woman knocked 
at the door of the village jail. There was 
about her a deep, concentrated calmness 
which induced the jailer to grant her request 
to visit the condemned cell. As the heavy 
door closed behind her, she hesitated before 
the pallet bed. 

"Hetty, Dinah is come to you." 

Slowly, very slowly, Hetty rose and was 
clasped in Dinah's arms. 

''You won't leave me, Dinah? *' 

"No, Hetty,'' whispered Dinah. "I'U 
stay with you to the last. But, Hetty, there 
is some one else in this cell." 

"Who?" whispered Hetty, frightened. 

" Some one who has been with you all your 



ADAM BEDE 9 

hours of sin and trouble. It makes no 
difference, Hetty, whether we live or die. 
We are in the presence of God. Confess the 
sin you have committed against your Heav- 
enly Father. Let us kneel together. He is 
here." 

There in the silence and darkness Hetty, 
who through her trial had sat like a stone 
image, poured forth her pitiful story. 

"It was because I was so miserable, 
Dinah. I didn't know where to go. I tried 
to kill myself, and I couldn't. I went to 
Windsor to find him. He was gone, and I 
didn't know what to do. I daren't go home i 
again. Then the baby was bom. ... I I 
did do it, Dinah. I buried it in the wood — 
the Uttle baby. It cried. ... I heard it all 
night — and I went back. And then I thought 
I would go home, and all of a sudden I saw 
a hole under a nut-tree, and it darted over 
me hke lightning I'd lay the baby there and 
cover it with grass and chips. I couldn't 
cover it quite up, Dinah. I thought some- 
body'd come and take care of it. Dinah, do 
you think God will take away that cry and 
the place in the wood, now that I've told 
everything?" 

Let us pray, poor sinner," breathed 



10 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

Dinah. "Let us pray to the God of All 
Mercy." 

Comforter and comforted, their prayer was 
heard. Two days later, in the very shadow 
of the scaffold, Arthur Donnithome brought 
a hard-won reprieve. 

Though spared from death, Hetty was 
sentenced to transportation. Dinah returned 
to her works of mercy at Snowfield. In re- 
morse and shame, Arthur Donnithome went 
back to the army, while Adam Bede, squaring 
his shoulders to the world, turned again to 
his work-bench. 

For him all the joy of life seemed over, and 
never would he have thought of seeking it 
again had not his mother dropped into his 
heart one day the name of Dinah. Long and 
soberly he thought, and then he went to 
find her. 




THOMAS HABDY 



HARDY 

HTHOMAS HARDY, probably the moat search- 
-^ ing and profound novelist of our own timCy was 
bom June 2y 1840, in Dorsetshire, England. In 
his youth he read much and cherished the dream of 
becoming a poet, bui he studied and prnctised archi- 
tecture as assistant to a London architect, winning a 
prize for design. The fi/ne proportion and solidity 
of structure in his novels were probably somewhat 
due to his architectural training. 

For Jive years he assiduously practised writing 
poetry, but when he was twenty^even he turned 
definitely to fiction. His first story was accepted 
two years later, bui upon the advice of George Mere- 
dith he decided not to publish it. His first novel, 
^^ Desperate Remedies,'^ appeared in 1871. 

During the next twenty-five years he published 
fourteen novels and two volumes of short stories. 

''Under the Greenwood Tree'' {1872) he ''never 
surpassed in happy and delicate perfection of art.'' 
In this and his neoct novel, "A Pair of Blue Eyes" 
{187S), begins to show itself that strain of deep 
irony which is so potent throughout Hardy's 
writings. 



\ 



12 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

*^ Far from the Madding Crowd'^ (1874) was his 
first popular success. In it is revealed Hardy^s su- 
perb power of depicting nature as symbolic hack- 
ground for his characterSy an organic part of the 
action of his story. This was the earliest of what he 
called his novels of character and environment, 
which included " The Return of the Native,'' *' Tess 
of the D'UrherviUes,'' his masterpiece^ and ^^Jude 
the Obscure." Not until he was fifty-eight years 
old was his first volume of verse published, and he 
was sixty-four when the first part of his stupendous 
epic poem, ^^The Dynasts,'' startled the literary 
world. 



TESS 
OF THE D'URBERVILLES 

By THOMAS HARDY 

Condensation by I 

RTJTH McCALL 

"/^OOD morning, Sir John." "The' be- 
^— * wildennent of a dusty, threadbare 
peddler thus addressed was speedily con- 
verted into a majestic pride upon learning 
that he, John Durbeyfield of Marlott, was 
actually a lineal descendant of the noble 
family of D'UrberviUe. 

And no sooner had Joan, his handsome, 
shallow-minded wife, the easy-going mother 
of his many children, heard of her exalted 
estate than her romantic soul began secretly 
to devise a brilliant and fitting alhance for 
her beautiful young daughter. To which 
end Tess was artfully prevailed upon to seek 
work in a wealthy upstart family of the same 
illustrious name. 

And so the innocent child, whose single- 



14 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

minded desire was to mend the broken f ort- 
mies of her family, became poultrykeeper 
for a blind old woman of spurious title and 
ultimate prey for her son, a dissolute wretch, 
young Alec D'Urberville. After a while 
back to Marlott came the disillusioned girl, 
where she lived in a gray seclusion until her 
wizened little baby^s death. 

But after several bitter years of heart- 
searching, Tess determined to leave home 
again — ^this time to be dairymaid at Tal- 
bothays, a large, fertile farm in the valley of 
the Great Dairies. And here, too, was a 
yotmg man, the yoimgest son of a stem and 
zealous divine of the old school. Angel 
Clare had sadly disappointed his father, first 
by nonconformist views and then by sincere 
scruples against taking orders. So now, in 
process of becoming gentleman farmer, he 
was specializing at various farms. Cult- 
ured, idealistic, sympathetic, he seemed to 
Tess a demigod, and though she had sworn 
herself to celibacy, the enforced propinquity 
ripened into intimacy and drifted into love. 
Together they went afield in the wondrous 
dewy dawns and the warm summer after- 
noons found them making butter and cheese 
in the cool, white dairy-house. The birds 



TESS OF THE D'TIREERVILLES ]5 

sang for them and for them the stars shone, 
and the whole verdant valley, teeming with 
richness and increase, gave up its odorous 
vapors. Young, happy, pagan-hearted, the 
universe was theirs. Her quick mind grew 
in contact with his, and her warm, rich voice 
lost its country speech and unconsciously 
adopted his cultured accents. 

Tess's specter loomed but vaguely now, 
until love's honest declaration brought her to 
poignant realization of her situation in this 
man-made world. But all withdrawals were 
overcome by Clare's gentle insistence; all 
attempts at revelation were lightly thwarted. 
Finally, within a week of the wedding-day 
which she had reluctantly set, her resolution 
takes shape in writing — a four-page con- 
fession is breathlessly thrust under his door, 
Ironically concealed under the carpet it lies 
until Tess, with a sudden late intuition on 
her wedding mom, discovers its hiding-place 
and tears it up. In a lumbering old relic of 
coach days (symbolic of an ancient D'Urber- 
\'iUe legend of crime) Tess and Angel are 
carried to church, and upon their final 
departure a white cock crows thrice. "An 
afternoon crow," and the dairy folk shake 
their heads at the evil omen. 



16 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

To an old farm-house — a derelict of an an- 
cient D^UrberviUe mansion — ^in ready range 
of a model mill, Clare, with a sense of the 
practical and the romantic, takes his lovely 
bride. From the paneled wall outside her 
door two old D'UrberviUe portraits gleam 
evilly and Clare and Tess shiver as they trace 
a subtle likeness to her own in the mignant 
yet noble features. Before the glowing fire 
the adoring bridegroom, his wife^s hand 
clasped in his, teUs the story of his one aber- 
ration, of his forty-eight hours' dissipation 
with a Scarlet Woman, and confidently 
craves her pardon, which Tess is only too 
delighted to grant; and, with the first real 
gleam of hope, imf olds her own sad story. . . . 

The wanton action of a man of maturity — 
the deceived innocence of an ignorant child! 
And yet, the man cannot forgive the woman ! 
All the rigid rule of his forebears, all the 
domination of an unjust social order, grip 
him. Angel Clare, the prophet of emanci- 
pation, no longer exists. For several days 
they lead a formal, isolated existence. Tess, 
whose sole wish is to please her idol, ac- 
quiesces in his attitude, and, after a first 
wild outburst at the injustice, does nothing 
to exonerate herself, and her one chance for 



TESS OF THE D'URBERVILLES 17 

Teinstatement is blighted by the mocking 
witness of the vindictive portraits. No 
chaste-minded, unsophisticated peasant maid 
she, but the last dregs of a decadent stock! 
A separation, temporary at least, is decided 
upon, and while Clare rages afar, Tess again 
creeps home. Joan, after the first bitter 
reproaches for the mad disobedience of her 
repeated injunctions of secrecy, treats the 
affair with her usual fatalistic light-hearted- 
ness; but the harsh words of the father in a 
drunken moment of excessive ancestral pride 
cause a dignified departure with the con- 
ciUatory donation of half her means of sub- 
sistence and the intimation that she is 
rejoining her husband. 

Determined, however, to make no appeal 
to Clare's family, Tess easily finds summer 
employment among the farms; but with the 
coming of winter and too lavish contribu- 
tions to her family's support, privation stares 
her in the face. Day after day she wanders 
on until at length on the high, chalky table- 
lands, in a great drab field of desolation, she 
finds the meanest, most arduous of tasks 
rendered tenfold difficult by a churhsh boor 
of an employer in all the rancor of an ancient 
grudge against her. In the stinging rain 



18 ONE. HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

and the chilling snow she toils unceasingly, 
uncomplainingly, living wholly in the hope 
of her husband^s return. Songs that he 
loved she practises, the sweet, gay notes 
contrasting sadly with her tragic Ups and 
great, sorrowing eyes. At length, distraught 
by the continued silence, she bravely decides 
to seek news of him from his parents, and 
walks the long, tremulous miles to Emminster 
Vicarage. Of rare spiritual as weU as phys- 
ical endowments, she would have undoubt- 
edly received a welcome at the hands of the 
benevolent old clergyman and his wife, but 
an empty house reverberates to her knocking, 
and while she unobtrusively awaits their 
return from church she overhears a wayside 
conversation between Angel's two exemplary 
brothers that sends her homeward with 
rended heart. 

The voice of a "ranter" triumphantly 
consigning a bamf ul of rustics to eternal dam- 
nation caused Tess to pause a moment in a 
doorway, and there on a platform of corn- 
bags, in sanctimonious side-whiskers and 
semi-clerical blacks, stood Alec D'Urberville. 
Animalism had yielded to fanaticism and the 
bold, roving eye now gleamed with a fero- 
cious righteousness. As she passed on down 



TESS OF THE D'UEBERVILLES 
the lane he came after her, imploring forgive- 
ness and offering redemption. Repulse after 
repulse failed to deter Alec, who persisted 
day by day, at first with a marriage license 
and holy words, and then, his former passion 
uncontrollably revived by Tess's compelling 
beauty, his new-found religion dropped from 
him hke a cloak, the convert disappeared, and 
all the arts of man and devil were employed 
to ensnare the girl. And poor, hopeless Tess, 
grinding on under a benumbing strain, was 
in more danger than her scorn of the man 
could realize. Finally her father's death, 
resulting in the eviction of her family from 
their home, precipitates Tess's doom, and as 
a last desperate reparation to her helpless 
mother and sisters she yields, with a fatalistic 
calm, to the inevitable. 

To Sandbourne, a gay watering-place, a 
melancholy specter of a man, wasted by ill- 
ness and regret, comes in search of his lost 
bride, and in a fashionable boarding-house 
Clare finds Tess and learns the agonizing 
truth. Just beyond the town she overtook 
him, her eyes wild and trancelike, her whole 
body as if bereft of soul and will. "I have 
killed him ... he taunted me ... he called 
you by a foul name. ... I owed it to you 



20 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

and I owed it to myself. ... It came to me 
as a shining light that I should get you back 
that way." 

With a final realization of the immensity 
of her love and the piteous plight it had 
brought upon her, Clare held out tender, pro- 
tecting arms, and together they wandered 
through the untrodden ways like two chil- 
dren — the world and its retribution quite 
forgot. 

For five days they continued in this idyllic 
state, and on the sixth night Tess half jest- 
ingly claimed sanctuary among the conspicu- 
ous ruins of the ancient pagan temple to the 
sun at Stonehenge. With the dawn came the 
guardians of the law, looming dark against 
the silvery horizon. In a grim, inexorable 
circle they waited until the sun's level rays, 
relentlessly reminiscent of a bygone sacri- 
ficial day, fell full upon another victim, and 
Tess, deserted by all the gods, awoke. 
Quietly she faced her captors. ' ' I am ready," 
she said. 

Eight metallic strokes shiver the morning 
air and from a near-by hill a stricken figure 
rivets involuntary eyes on the flag-staff of a 
sullen cage of a building. For Angel the 
prison where Tess is confined has at this 



TESS OF THE D'URBERVILLES 21 

fatal hour a deadly and significant fascina- 
tion. Slowly, silently, a black square creeps 
up the pole and flutters chill against the 
morning sky. 

Tess, more sinned against than sinning, 
had paid the great penalty. 

Prmted by permission of, and arrangement with, Harper 
& Bros., authorized publishers. 



CERVANTES 

Ji/riGUEL DE CERVANTES SAAVEDRA, 
J- ^-^ dramaiist and novelist, was bom in 1647, the 
son of a Spanish druggist and surgeon. He died in 
Madrid in 1616, ten days before Shakespeare^ s 
deaih. 

As a youth Cervantes went to Italy, where he 
served as a private in the army. In a naval battle 
off Greece he was thrice wounded, his right hand 
being permanenUy maimed. While returning to 
Spain he was captured by pirates and taken to Al- 
giers, where he was held as a slave for five years. 

After his ransom he wrote many plays. They 
brought him more fame than fortune, and he added 
to his responsibilities by wedding, at the age of 
thirty-seven, a girl of nineteen. It was evidently a 
marriage of love, as her dorvry consisted only of 
''five vines, an orchard, some household furniture, 
four beehives, forty-five hens and chickens, one cock, 
and a crucible.^' As he could not live by his pen, 
Cervantes secured a minor governmental position; 
but he was in constant difficulties because of press- 
ing debts and his uvbusiness-like habits. He was 



CERVANTES 23 

thrown into prison for debt; releasedy he sank into 
abject poverty. 

Part of ^^Don Quixote ^^ was probably written in 
jail. This novel, a magic mirror that reflects nobles 
and kitchen wenches, barbers and ladies of high 
degree, all the varied life of a brilliant period, is 
considered by many to be the world^s greatest hvr 
morous masterpiece. The wonder of it is thai it 
was written by a man nearing his sixtieth year, 
who had all his life been poor, who had known 
little except misfortune. ^^ Children turn its pages, 
young people read it, grown men understand it, old 
folks praise itJ^ 



DON QUIXOTE 

By MIGUEL DE CERVANTES 

Condensation by 
NATHAN HASKELL DOLE 

TN the sixteenth century romances of chiv- 
* ahy, written in absurd, exaggerated style, 
were extremely popular in Spain. 

A dignified gentleman by the name of 
Quixada, who Uved between Aragon and 
Castile, went crazy over these foolish books, 
which he spent aU his substance in buying. 
His brain was stuffed with enchantments, 
quarrels, battles, challenges, wounds, magic 
salves, complaints, amours, torments, giants, 
castles, captured maidens, gallant rescues, 
and all sorts of impossible deeds of daring, 
which seemed to him as true as the most 
authentic history. Every innkeeper was a 
magnate; every mule-d^er a cavalier. 

He decided that for his own honor and for 
the service of the world he must turn knight 
errant and jaunt throu^ the world, redress- 



DON QUIXOTE 25 

ing wrongs, rescuing captured princesses, and 
at last winning the imperial scepter of 
Trapizonda. 

He changed his name to Don Quixote de 
ia Mancha, got himself dubbed knight by a 
rascally publican whose inn he thought was 
a castle with four turrets crowned with pin- 
nacles of glistening silver. In order to carry 
a full purse he sold one of his houses, mort- 
gaged another, and borrowed a goodly sum 
from a friend. When his practical house- 
keeper and his pretty niece, together with 
his neighbors, the barber and the curate, 
thought to cure him by burning his books, he 
was persuaded that his library had been 
carried away by a necromancer, and became 
crazier than ever. He scoured up a rusty 
suit of mail which had belonged to one of his 
ancestors, mended the broken helmet with a 
pasteboard vizor, patched with thin iron 
plates, and thus accoutered set forth on his 
old hack Rocinante, whose ribs stuck out 
like the skeleton of a ship, accompanied by a 
rustic named Sancho Panza, persuaded into 
serving as his squire. 

Their departure was a brave spectacle: 
the tall, cadaverous, lantern-jawed knight, 
mounted on his bony nag, wielding his long 



1 



26 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

lance and carrying his sword, his eyes gleam- 
ing with enthusiasm and dreaming of his 
beautiful mistress, whom he called Dulcinea 
del Toboso; the short, squat, paunch-bellied, 
long-haunched servant with a canvas wallet 
and a leathern bottle, mounted on the 
diminutive ass. Dapple. 

On the plains of Montiel stood a score of 
big windmills. Don Quixote took them for 
outrageous giants and prepared to do battle 
against them, and, despite Sancho's protests 
that their huge arms were only vanes, he 
plunged the rowels into Rocinante's thin 
flanks and with couched lance dashed off to 
the encounter. The wind blew violently and 
the knight and his steed were whirled away 
into the field, where they lay motionless and 
as if dead ; his lance was smashed to flinders. 
Sancho hastened to the aid of his master and 
found him unable to stir; but he was soon 
ready to go on again. 

Their next adventure was with two monks 
riding on mules as big as dromedaries, in 
company with a coach in which sat a lady 
escorted by men on horseback. Don Quixote 
imagined that adventurers had captured a 
princess and in the haughtiest terms bade 
them release her. Then without further 



DON QUIXOTE 27 

parley he drove against the monks, one of 
whom ran away, while the other fell ofE his 
mule. Sancho nimbly slipped from his ass 
and began to strip the luckless man; while 
he was engaged in this legitimate appropria- 
tion of the spoils of battle two muleteers 
of the train overset him, tore out his beard 
by handfuls, mauled him, and left him sense- 
less. Don Quixote engaged in a terrific com- 
bat with one of the lady's guard, who sliced 
off half of his helmet and one of his ears. 
Undaunted, the knight pressed the combat to 
victory, but just as he was about to give the 
finishing stroke, the frightened lady begged 
him to desist, and he complied on condition 
that the defeated opponent should go and 
present himself before the peerless Dulcinea, 
who was in reality a buxom woman known 
through all La Mancha for her skUl in salting 
pork and who had never deigned to look at 
her amorous neighbor. 

A few days later, bruised and battered in 
untoward adventures, they came upon a flock 
of sheep which Don Quixote conceived to be 
a prodigious army composed of an infinite 
number of nations led by mighty kings. He 
spurred like a thunderbolt from the top of a 
hilloek, shouting his battle-challenge, putting 



28 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

the hapless sheep to flight and trampling 
both the living and the slain. Impatient to 
meet the commander of the enemy, he 
shouted: 

"Where, where art thou, haughty 
Alifanfaron?'' 

At that moment the"'shepherds rallied in 
defense of their flocks and overwhelmed the 
unlucky knight, flrst with stones and then 
with cudgels, leaving him in a desperate case, 
with nearly all his teeth knocked out or 
loosened, and his ribs half broken. 

Did this adventure discourage him? Not 
at all. It was all a part of chivalry. He and 
Sancho rode on in dolorous discourse. They 
were overtaken by night and had no shelter 
or food. Suddenly appeared a band of 
about twenty horsemen, all in white robes, 
with torches in their hands and followed by 
a hearse draped in black. It was the funeral 
of a gentleman of Segovia. Don Quixote took 
it to be the train of some knight either killed 
or desperately wounded, and, assured that 
it was his duty to avenge the misfortunes of 
a brother-in-arms, halted the cortege and 
demanded an explanation. The repUes of 
the clergymen faUed to satisfy him and he 
flew at them in high dudgeon. Encum- 



DON QUIXOTE 29 

bered by their long robes, they became easy 
victims and all took to flight. 

They possessed themselves of the edibles 
deserted by the clergymen, but, unfortunately, 
had nothing to drink, nor did they dare stir 
from the forest because of the awful clamor 
made by a fuUing-mill which Don Quixote 
supposed to be enchantment. 

The next morning they met a barber riding 
on an ass and wearing his brass basin on his 
head to save his hat from the rain. Don 
Quixote recognized this as the golden hehnet 
of Mambrino, and flew at this enemy as if he 
would grind him to powder. The barber 
fled, leaving his helmet, which Sancho appro- 
priated, though it seemed to him merely a 
common dish. 

They came to another imi. In the night 
Don Quixote, while sound asleep and dream- 
ing, enjoyed the most famous battle of his 
career. Dressed in a short shirt which ex- 
posed his lean, long, hairy shanks, and wear- 
ing a greasy red nightcap, with a blanket 
wrapped around his left arm for a shield, he 
was repeatedly plunging his sword into the 
plump bodies of several giants. Their blood 
flowed across the floor in wide, crimson 
streams. 



30 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

Imagine the wrath of the worthy inn- 
keeper at discovering that his famous guest 
had disemboweled aU his wine-sacks, which 
were made of goat-skins with the heads left 
on. 

After this Don Quixote was got home by 
the curate and the barber; but he broke loose 
again. First he visited his Dulcinea, but 
came away convinced that through more 
enchantment she had been changed into a 
blubber-cheeked, flat-nosed country wench, 
the pearls of her eyes into gall-nuts, her long 
golden locks into a cow's tail, and her palace 
into a hut. 

He had adventures with strolling actors 
and lions; he attended the rich Camacho's 
wedding; he explored the deep cave of Mon- 
tesinos; he rode on a magic bark and visited 
the nameless duke and duchess through 
whose complaisance Sancho was granted his 
ambition to rule over an island and did it 
with wisdom worthy of Solomon. Many 
more adventures followed, but at last Don 
Quixote returned to his home and recovered 
his senses on his death-bed, dying as a lovable, 
high-minded, noble-hearted gentleman. 

Cervantes's masterpiece is not all satire. 
Don Quixote has lucid moments; Sancho's 



DON QUIXOTE 31 

simplicity veils common sense, often ex- 
pressed in witty proverbs. There is oc- 
casional coarseness, but not so much as in 
Shakespeare. The chief fault is its treat- 
ment of msanity, in its author's fondness for 
cruel and brutal practical jokes, which may 
perhaps explain the maintenance of bull- 
fighting as the national amusement of Spain. 



WOOD 

JOLLEN PRICE was bom at Worcester , Eng- 
-^-' landj January 17y 1814, the daughter of a 
glove manufadwrer. In 1836 she married Henry 
Woody head of a large shipping and hanking fi/rmy 
whose business kept them for some twenty years in 
France. Her husband died in 1866, bvi she lived 
tiU February 10, 1887. 

Her literary career began with a £100 prize tem- 
perance tale. She began making contributions to 
^'Bentley^s Miscellany ,'' and in 1867, after her hus- 
band^ s death, she became editor and proprietor of 
*' The Argosy,'^ in which appeared her later novels. 
Her first great sv^ccess was ^^East Lynne,^' in 1861, 
the book by which she is known to-day. The vogue 
of the story was enormous; it was translated into 
several languages, and theatergoers of an older 
generation in both England and America knew 
various very successful versions of it. She wrote 
some forty long novels and many short tales, some 
of which ranked as "6esf sellers^' long before the 
invention of that phrase. Her powers ranged from 
extreme melodrama to the portrayal of every-day 
life. She was perhaps unduly prized in her day 




MRS. HENRY WOOD 



WOOD 33 

and is unduly appreciated now, hut thai is the way 
with best sellers. " The Shadow of Ashlydyai^^ was 
her own favorite; her Johnny Ludlow tales are per- 
haps her most artistic work. ^^East hynne^^ how^ 
ever, is the hook her name suggests to readers. 



EAST LYNNE 

By MRS. HENRY WOOD 

Condensation by 
RUTH H. FROST 

TEFT a penniless orphan when a timid and 
■■^ sensitive girl of eighteen, the beautiful 
Lady Isabel Vane found herself at the mercies 
of an unsympathetic relative. In her inno- 
cence she admired a certain frequent visitor 
at this home— Captain Francis Levison, an 
unprincipled spendthrift. Beyond heartless- 
ly leading her on to care for him, he made 
no honorable mention of marriage. Small 
wonder was it then that she accepted Archi- 
bald Cariyle, when that worthy and straight- 
forward country lawyer, the purchaser of her 
father's estate at East Lynne, took courage 
because of her distress over her unpleasant 
surroundings to ask her hand in marriage. 

*'I ought to tell you — ^I must,'' she con- 
fessed to him in hysterical tears. "Though 
I have said 'yes,' I do not — ^yet — This has 



EAST LYNNE 35 

come upon me so by surprise," she stam- 
mered. "I like you very much; I esteem 
and respect you; but I do not yet love you." 

"I should wonder if you did," Archibald 
rephed. "But you will let me earn your 
love, Isabel?" 

" Oh yes," she earnestly answered, " I hope 
so." 

Passively she let him have his first kiss. 
"My dearest," he said, "it is all I ask." 

Six years passed. Life at East Lynne was 
not all that one might wish for. To be sure, 
Lady Isabel had a most devoted husband and 
three lovely children. But her happiness was 
marred by two thorns of which her husband 
was quite unaware. Cornelia Carlyle, the 
domineering and narrow-minded half-sister 
of Archibald, had steeled her heart against 
Isabel from the beginning, and made life at 
East Lynne quite miserable for the poor 
little inexperienced bride. The second dis- 
turbance was the suspicion that her husband 
had loved and was now renewing his love for 
Barbara Hare, the daughter of the neigh- 
borhood justice. Incited by the idle gossip 
of servants, this suspicion grew into jealousy. 

It was true that Archibald seemed to have 
many meetings with the pretty Barbara — 



1 



36 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

but how was poor Lady Isabel to know that 
in reality these meetings concerned only pri- 
vate business of a professional nature? Bar- 
bara Hare had a brother, Richard, who years 
before had been accused of murder. Her 
mother was an invalid, and her stubborn, 
unforgiving father would hear naught of the 
son who had disgraced him. Barbara's 
secret meetings with her exiled brother had 
convinced her of his innocence. Her one 
recourse, when implored by Richard to seek 
help in finding the real criminal, was to con- 
fide in their old family friend, Archibald 
Carlyle. 

Always delicate in health and worried sick 
over her imagined troubles, Lady Isabel was 
finally persuaded by her physician to go to 
the French coast for a change in air and 
scenery. The autocratic Cornelia forbade 
her bemg accompanied by the children. 
Lady Isabel was looking forward to a lonely 
fortnight before her husband was to join her, 
when she chanced to meet Francis Levison, 
exiled to the Continent because of his debts 
in England. Bewildered when she began to 
realize that she still had that indefinable, 
involuntary feeling toward him, she was yet 
completely fascinated, as in the old days 



EAST LYNNE 37 

before her marriage. She would have given 
all she possessed to overcome this attraction. 
Courage failed her to confide all in her 
husband. 

Full of sophistries as before, the unscrupu- 
lous Captain Levison compelled her to listen 
to him. "The past is gone," he said, "but 
if ever two people were formed to love each 
other, you and I were, Isabel. I would have 
declared myself, had I dared, but my un- 
certain position — my debts — well, I never 
knew how passionately I loved you until you 
became the wife of another. Isabel, I love 
you passionately still." 

Lady Isabel felt it her duty to repel his 
advances, but there stiU remained that un- 
dercurrent of feeling for him that she could 
not comprehend. Fearful lest she betray 
herself, she dismissed him abruptly, sent for 
her husband to take her home, and made a 
pitiful attempt to drive all thoughts of 
Francis Levison from her mind. 

It was well-nigh impossible. Her plans to 
forget him were completely frustrated when 
her generous husband, innocently enough, 
merely thinking to repay Captain Levison 
for his kind attentions to Lady Isabel on the 
French coast, invited that profligate to East 



38 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

Lynne as a place of shelter where he might be 
safe from his creditors until something could 
be arranged. 

like a serpent, Levison boldly took every 
occasion to whisper into Lady IsabeFs ear 
all the meetings that he spied between her 
husband and Barbara Hare. Under a mis- 
apprehension that her husband was giving 
his love to Barbara, and frantic with the 
jealous belief that the two were uniting to 
deceive her, Lady Isabel finally yielded to 
Levison's pleadings and eloped with hhn. 

No sooner had she taken the final step than 
she was filled with remorse. Almost imme- 
diately she discovered the true character of 
this insincere rake for whom she had given 
up her all. In a year he deserted her, leaving 
her unborn child nameless. 

Too proud to accept help from relatives, 
she decided to become a governess. When 
she chanced to hear of the opportunity to 
return to East Lynne as the governess to her 
own children, she could not withstand the 
temptation, so great was her longing to see 
them again. It was a desperate chance to 
take, for she might be recognized, though 
illness and the railroad accident which had 
killed her child had altered her entirely. 



EAST XYNNE 39 

Her disguise was complete as, heartsick, she 
rode again along the familiar road toward 
East Lynne. When the dear old house 
loomed up before her, its gay and cheerily 
lighted windows a contrast to her own down- 
cast spirits, she began to wish she had never 
undertaken the project. But for the sake of 
seeing her own children again, she would 
have turned back. Her fears of being recog- 
nized were allayed when she saw that no one 
suspected for a moment that the gray, sad- 
dened and disfigured "Madame Vine" was 
Lady Isabel. 

East Lynne had a new mistress now — 
none other than her fancied rival of old, 
Barbara Hare. Not until she realized for 
the first time that Archibald's love could no 
longer be hers did Isabel feel an intensity of 
love for him that she had never experienced 
as his wife. And yet she became almost 
happy again in winning the affection of her 
children, though her joy in being with them 
was tempered with sorrow in caring for deli- 
cate little William, her second bom, knowing 
as she did that he could not long be with 
them. 

Events moved along fast. There came the 
time when Francis Levison, returning to East 



40 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

Lynne to seek election to Parliament, only 
to be defeated by Carlyle, was convicted of 
the crime which had overshadowed Richard 
Hare for so many years. At East Lynne, 
after the death of little William, a sudden 
illness came upon Lady Isabel. When she 
reaUzed that she was faiUng rapidly, she 
begged upon her death-bed to be allowed to 
see Archibald Carlyle. 

"I could not die without your forgiveness," 
she murmured. ''Do not turn from me! 
Bear with me one little minute! Only say 
you forgive me, and I shall die in peace." 

''Isabel! Are you — ^were you — ^Madame 
Vme?" 

"Oh, forgive me for disgracing your home! 
And forgive me for coming back! I could 
not stay away from you and my children! 
The longing for you was killing me. I never 
knew a moment's peace after the mad act I 
was guilty of in quitting you. Not an hour 
had I departed when my repentance set in. 
Oh, forgive me! My sin was great, but my 
punishment was greater." 

"Why did you go?" 

" Did you not know? I grew suspicious of 
you. I thought you were deceitful, and in 
my sore jealousy I listened to the temptings 



EAST LYNNE 41 

of him who whispered to me of revenge. It 
was not true, was it?'' she feverishly asked. 

''Can you suggest such a thing, knowing 
me as you did then, as you must have since? 
Isabel, I never was false to you in thought, 
word, or deed. Yes, I forgive you, fully, 
freely. May God bless you and take you to 
His rest in heaven!" 

She raised her head from the pillow and 
clung to his arm, lifting her face with its sad 
yeammg. Tenderly he laid her down again 
and suffered his lips to rest on hers. 

''Until eternity," he whispered. 



DUMAS 

jfLEXANDRE DUMAS was of mixed hlood, 
-^^ tfie grandson of a French marquis and a nor 
live of the West Indies. His own father was a prin 
vaie in the French army when the Revolution broke 
out. He was smfUy promoted until he held the 
rank of general-inrchief in Spain, but he quarreled 
with Napoleon, and when he died he left hut thirty 
acres of land to his widow and two children. 

Alexandre was horn on July 24, 1802, in a town 
not far from Soissons. As a hoy he had few adr 
vantages, for his mother was poor. He was, how- 
ever, carefully instructed hy a kindly priest. He 
then studied law, hut his desire to write drove him 
to Paris, where he hegan his career hy penning 
vaudeville sketches and melodramas. 

He wrote plays for several years and his ^^ Henri 
III" scored the first great success of the romantic 
drama. Short stories appeared at intervals, and 
then his novels. *'The Three Musketeers" came 
out in 1844, and thereafter romance after romance 
came in such rapid su^xession that his collected 
works in French fill two hundred and twenty-seven 



DUMAS 45 

voluTnes. He told Napoleon III that he had 
written twelve hundred hooks. 

Prodigiously as he worked^ he wasted just as 
prodigiously. He entertained a whole army of 
parasites, and in his last years was constantly 
harassed by creditors. He had married, in 1840, 
Ida Ferrier, an actress, but they did not long live 
together. His daughter came to his aid in 1868 
when he was debt-ridden and ill, and two years later y 
on December 5, 1870, he died in the home of his son,, 
the author of (he popular ''Camille.^^ 



THE COUNT OF MONTE 

CRISTO 

By ALEXANDRE DUMAS, SR. 

Condensation by 
ALFRED S. CLARK 

r\N February 28, 1815, Edmond Dantes 
^-^ sailed into Marseilles. He was but 
nineteen years of age and ardently in love. 
His conscience was clear; he had violated no 
law. Yet the next night he was in a ceU in 
the gloomy Ch&teau d'lf , a fortress on a bare 
rock off Marseilles. And fourteen years 
were to pass before he strode again in the 
sunlight. 

Three men had wrought his ruin. Dang- 
lars envied Edmond^s rapid promotion. Fer- 
nand was crazed with love for Mercedes, 
Edmond's beloved. Danglars wrote and 
Femand despatched a letter warning the 
authorities to intercept the missive Edmond 
was bearing to Paris. Chance decreed that 
this warning, addressed to Villefort^s father. 



THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO 43 

fell into the hands of the unscrupulous 
^^efort himself. 

Of this dark intrigue Edmond knew noth- 
ing. At his captain's dying request, he had 
called at Elba, where he had seen the captive 
Napoleon and been intrusted with a sealed 
letter. Villefort, a turncoat devoted to the 
aristocracy, had changed his name to make 
men forget that his father was a Bona- 
partist. He destroyed the incriminating 
letter before Edmond's eyes and promised 
that the lad should soon be free. Even as 
he spoke the words he knew that in the 
disappearance of this youth lay his own 
security. 

Thus it happened that while the Corsican 
came out of Elba by stealth and rode to 
Paris amid tumultuous cheers, Edmond lay 
in a dungeon. The thunder of the guns at 
Waterloo did not penetrate the walls of the 
Ch&teau d'If. Napoleon was borne away to 
St. Helena; the Hundred Days were over. 
And Dantes knew naught of these things. 
He ate out his heart in thoughts of Mercedes 
and wondered what mad freak of fortune had 
thrust him away from the world of men. 

Days dragged into years. He lost track of 
time. Confined in a black and slimy dim- 



46 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

geon, he saw only his jailer. There were 
moments when he hoped, hours when he 
despaired, weeks when he raved in impotent 
anger. Four years rolled past. He was 
starving himself to death. Then he heard a 
rasping, scratching noise. The spark of 
human hope burned anew. He swallowed 
his broth; he must win back his strength. 
Somewhere near him was a human mole, 
burrowing stealthily, worming toward free- 
dom. 

Four days later a section of flooring fell in 
and out of a dark tunnel sprang an old man. 
He was the Abb6 Faria, a prisoner for eight 
years. His tunnel, dug with arduous toil, 
had failed to reach the sunlight, but it led to 
feUowship. Unsuspected by their jailers, 
the two men met daily and studied un- 
weariedly. Out of his ripe wisdom and his 
prodigious memory, the abb6 taught Ed- 
mond mathematics, history, and languages. 

Less guileless than Edmond, he was able 
to prove, from the youth^s own story, that 
Danglars, Femand, and \^efort were re- 
sponsible for his living death. So Edmond 
had a new incentive for freedom. He^sought 
revenge. The abb6 revealed, toOy'^the secret 
of the great treasure of gold and jewels that 



THE COUNT OF MO^fTE CRISTO 

lay in a cave on Monte Cristo, an uninhabited 
island oflF Italy. 

The years rolled on. Another attempt to 
escape was frustrated by the paralysis of the 
abba's right side. Edmond refused to leave 
him. He was a very different man from the 
carefree sailor who had been so suddenly 
jerked from the gaiety of a marriage feast to 
the gloom of a dungeon. He was a man of 
the world — educated, cynical. 

One night he heard a cry of anguish. Hur- 
riedly he rolled aside the great stone that 
concealed the tunnel opening, crawled swiftly 
to his neighbor's cell. He found him writh- 
ing in agony. At dawn he was dead. 

That night Edmond carried the corpse to 
his own cell and laid it on his own bed, face 
to the wall, so that the jailer would think it 
Edmond asleep. Secreting a crude knife 
with which to effect an escape, he then 
sewed himself into the coarse sack in which 
the jailers had put the body. Two men later 
bore out the supposed corpse, weighted the 
legs with a great iron ball, and swung the 
sack powerfully. Edmond suddenly realized 
that he was falling from a great height. He 
had been flung from the chateau roof into 
the sea. 



48 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

He screamed aloud as he struck the water, 
and then the weight dragged him into the 
ice-cold depths. He ripped open the sack; 
convulsively cut the rope that was knotted 
to the shot; and rose to the surface. He had 
not forgotten how to swim. He struck out 
in the blackness for an islet. Just as he was 
losing hope; his knee struck rock. He stag- 
gered to his feet and above him rose a gloomy 
masS; his goal. 

At daybreak he flung himself into the sea 
and was pulled aboard an outward-bound 
bark. Each moment Marseilles receded 
farther into the distance. He learned from 
his shipmates that it was February 28, 1829. 
He had been shut away from the world for 
fourteen years. He wondered what had be- 
come of Mercedes, Then he thought of 
Danglars, Femand, and ViUefort. A baleful 
light flickered in his hard eyes. 

Edmond had fallen in with a band of 
smugglers. On one of their voyages he 
gazed eagerly at a granite mass rose-hued 
in the dawn. It was Monte Cristo. A few 
weeks later chance brought him to the island. 
None of his comrades suspected the leaping 
thoughts that thronged in Edmond's mind. 
They were simple folk, easily deceived. 



THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO 

Edmond fell from a rock and complained that 
he was so hurt that he could not move. He 
was confident, he insisted, that he could cure 
himself if he were left here. At last they 
sailed away. When the boat was out of 
sight he leaped to his feet, seized his pickax, 
and cried, "Open Sesame!" He was alone 
on Monte Cristo. 

Following the clues of the abba's ancient 
manuscript, he located the great slab of 
rock overgrown with vegetation. He slashed 
at the edges with his pickax and made a 
hole. With his horn of powder he easily 
blasted the rock away. Before him was an 
iron ring embedded in a flagstone. He raised 
it and saw a flight of stairs. With hope 
mingled with a strange misgiving he de- 
scended, broke open a passage into an inner 
cave, and dug away the earth over an oak 
coffer bound with iron. He burst it open and 
there blazed gold coins, bars of gold, dia- 
monds, rubies, and pearls that gUtteied in I 
glorious profusion. 

When Edmond came back to France it was 
as the Count of Monte Cristo — fabulously 
wealthy, romantic in appearance, a performer 
of miracles. His betrayers had risen to 
heights of fame and affluence. Danglars was 



60 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

a wealthy banker; Femand an honored war- 
rior; ViUefort high in office. Mercedes, 
believing Edmond dead, had yielded to 
Femand's importunate pleadings and had 
married him. 

Zealously did the Coimt of Monte Cristo 
devote his days and nights to ruin these three. 
Usually it was in his own unrecognized per- 
sonality that he dazzled Paris with his feasts, 
his extravagances, his prodigal outlays. Ev- 
ery one paid court to this mysterious stranger 
who rained gold about him. Sometimes he 
disguised himself — ^now as the Abb6 Busoni, 
now as the Italian Zazzone, now as the 
English Lord Wilmore, now as Sinbad the 
Sailor. 

He tortured Danglars, Femand, ViUefort 
methodically and yet so skilfully that they 
did not know the hand that directed the 
blows that fell upon them. Piece by piece 
Danglar's fortune was lopped away. At last 
he was bewared, the bitterest blow that 
could have befallen him. Femand, enmeshed 
slowly in revelations of his guilty past, finally 
blew out his brains; ViUefort, his crimes 
dragged into the Ught of day, went raving 
mad. Mercedes, made poor but happy in 
the love of her devoted son, Uved on, penitent. 



THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO 61 

Yet were there those whom Monte Cristo 
rewarded. The noble Morrel, his former em- 
ployer, was saved from bankruptcy by a 
mysterious EngUshman who presented him 
with notes he could not meet. And on the 
iminhabited island of Monte Cristo MorreFs 
son, true and tried as his father, learned that 
ViUefort's daughter, the girl who had re- 
mained fine through aU vicissitudes, stiU 
lived. She stood beside him on the pinnacle 
of the island and they looked with blurred 
eyes into the distance, where each moment a 
ship grew fainter and fainter. It was bearing 
from their sight the man who had once been 
Edmond Dantes. With him was the radi- 
ant Haydee, the mysterious princess whose 
beauty had outshone all the beauties of 
Paris. In her love Edmond had at last 
forgotten all that he did not now want to 
remember. 



SAINT'PIERRE 

y'ACQUES HENRI BERNARDIN DE 
SAINT-PIERRE was bom at Havre in 17S7 
and died at Eragny, near Pontois, in 1814' 

An emotional dreamer, an irascible personificor 
Hon of the rolling stone, Bemardin de Saint-Pierre 
was constantly wandering from one thing and place 
to another. 

Educated for an engineer's profession, he went to 
sea, served in the army, was dismissed, received an 
appointment at Malta, held various posts at St. 
Petersburg, Warsaw, Dresden, Berlin, Mauritius, 
was superintendent of the Jardin des Plantes at 
Paris and professor at (he Ecole Normale, was a 
member of the Institute, and was ever meeting with 
tumultuous and romantic adventures. 

Yet he found time to write many volumes, of which 
the world remembers one. In ''Paul and Virginia'^ 
he created two-figures which have caught the popular 
imagination, not only of France, but of every country 
where books are read. 

The story inevitably suggests (he Greek pastoral 
^'Daphnis and Chloe^^ by Longus, and one sees in 
all his life the interest he took in Crusoe. 



SAINT-PIERRE 63 

He was a disciple of Rousseau; he led the way 
to Chdteauhriand; he broke away from the French 
classic tradition, and was one who started the move- 
ment back to nature and paved the way to the great 
romantic spell. Among the friends of Bemardin 
de SaintrPierre and the admirers of '^Paul and 
Virginia^^ was the first Napoleon. 



PAUL AND VIRGINIA 

By SAINT-PIERRE 

Condensation by 
IRVING BACHELLER 

TN the year 1726 a young man of Normandy 
* brought to the Isle de France his young 
wife, whose family was of noble blood. 
Shortly afterward he was taken with the 
fever and died, leaving her alone on the isle. 

Estranged from her family and without 
means, the young widow made her way to 
an uninhabited island where she could cul- 
tivate the soil without the payment of rent, 
and there she built a rude home for herself 
and her little child, a daughter whom she 
named Virginia. 

At the same time another woman, with a 
little son named Paul, settled on the same 
island, and the two women, mutually grateful 
for aid and comfort, became fast friends, 
although they had been of different stations 
in life. 



PAUL AND VIRGINIA 55 

Marguerite's servant, named Domingo, a 
powerful black man, was the husband of 
Marie, who was Madame de la Tour's hand- 
maid. Bound to each other by similar needs, 
the two lonely women spent much time to- 
gether, and the two children were almost 
inseparable. Their attachment was very 
marked even from the cradle. If Virginia 
was in trouble, the cries of Paul made it 
known. "When they learned to speak, the 
first names they learned to give each other 
were brother and sister. For the rest, they 
went almost naked, and could neither read 
nor write. 

From the beauty of their bare limbs one 
might fancy them two of Niobe's children 
escaped from the marble. 

As Madame de la Tour saw the unfolding 
charms of her daughter she became alarmed 
for her future and humbled herself to write 
to an old aunt in France, asking for aid for 
Virginia's sake. 

The aunt replied coldly, commending her 
to the governor of the island, adding, "Your 
disgraceful marriage has brought its righteous 
punishment." 

Deserted by her kinsfolk, the poor widow 
took Paul and Virginia to her arms. 

VOL. HI. 5 



66 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CJONDENSED 

Paul became a planter, busy and skilful, 
while Virginia spun or tended the goats and 
helped in the house. Thus passed their 
innocent youth. 

To them Madame de la Tour read the 
stories which time had haUowed, teach- 
ing them to find their happiness m serving 
others. 

Their Hves seemed bound up in that of the 
trees. They knew no historical epochs, no 
chronology save that of their orchards. No 
c^ wriSaed aeir brows, no intemperance 
poisoned their blood. They had all the 
freshness of the morning of life. They loved 
each other naturally and purely. 

It was wise Max^erite who ^d: "Let us 
marry our children. Soon Paul will be a 
man, and then we wiU have much to fear.*' 

Madame de la Tour hesitated. "Let us 
wait. Let us send Paul to India for a time. 
There he wiU be able to earn money with 
which to provide a home for himself and 
Virginia.'' 

To this plan Paul would not consent. "I 
am needed here. Dommgo is old and our 
mothers are alone. I shall stay." 

At this moment came another letter from 
the aimt in Normandy asking that Virginia 



PAUL AND VIRGINIA 57 

be sent to her for education. "If she follows 
my wishes," the aunt wrote, "she may look 
forward to being my heiress." 

Virginia was alarmed at this offer and Paul 
was angry. The madame decided against it. 

The governor of the island now urged that 
Virginia be sent. 

A missionary of the island joined the gov- 
ernor in urging that Virginia go to her kins- 
woman, and at last with a heart filled with 
anguish, mother and daughter, thinking it 
God's will, consented. 

Paul was puzzled by all this secret council. 

Meanwhile Virginia's consent had brought 
from her aunt gold to pay for clothes and 
jewels and her passage, and she was a trans- 
formed being. In her muslin and taffeta, 
with her hair in the manner of the period, she 
looked the duchess, and Paul was thrown into 
despair at sight of her beauty and her alien 
magnificence. 

Distressed by his grief and hoping to cure 
him of his false hopes, Marguerite now told 
him that he was only the illegitimate son of a 
peasant, while Virginia was the daughter of a 
noblewoman. 

Paul, pressing her in his arms, assured her 
that, as he had no other relative, he would 



68 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

love her the more. "But I see now why 
Madame de la Tour avoids me/' 

As the thought of losing Virginia came to 
him, Paul lost control of himself. Clasping 
her in his armS; he said: "I am going with 
you. Nothing shall part us. I swear it by 
the sea that I must cross, by the air to which 
I have never breathed a lie.'' 

Nevertheless, Virginia was taken away 
from him while he was wandering in the 
forest, mad with his fears. When he returned 
to the cabin and found her gone, he rushed 
to a high point from which the outgoing 
vessel could be seen, and there he stood till 
the darkness fell and the night winds began 
to sing their songs in his ear. 

Thereafter when he saw the two mothers 
weepmg he bitterly said, "Seek some one 
else to wipe away yoiu* tears." 

At last he turned his thought to the garden 
and to a new task. He determined to learn 
to read. He wished to be able to read of the 
country to which his love had gone. In a 
very short time he was able to read, and when 
at last a letter came from Virginia he was 
able to read it for himself. It was a sweet 
letter, but not a cheerful one. The girl's 
heart was in her happy island, and she asked 



PAUL AND VIRGINIA 59 

Paul to plant the flower seeds which she sent, 
upon the spot where they had last talked to- 
gether — a place she called Farewell Rock. 

As the months passed, envious folk began 
to whisper that Virginia was about to marry 
a nobleman, and Paul was a prey to doubt 
and despair. 

One morning at daybreak Paul saw a white 
flag flying on Mount Discovery. It was a 
sign that a ship was in the offing. A little 
later a letter from Virginia to Madame de la 
Tour was handed to Paul. Rapturously 
kissing it, he thrust it into his bosom and 
hastened to his home! To all the household 
madame read the letter. Virginia was com- 
ing home! She would soon land. Masters 
and servants all embraced. 

"My son," said Madame de la Tour, "go 
tell all our neighbors Virginia is coming 
home." 

To this happy household a negro messenger 
came to say that the ship was in distress and 
firing guns for help. A storm was approach- 
ing. By midnight the sea was hammering 
the rocks with fearful roar. The sound of 
the signal guns was dreadful in Paul's ears. 
All night long he and his faithful Domingo 
waited for the dawn in silence and dread. 



60 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

At dawn the governor with a file of soldiers 
arrived at a point near which the ship could 
be dimly seen in the fog. All signs pointed 
to a hurricane, and the people gathered in 
the hope of assisting the ship to land its 
passengers. 

At nine o'clock a whirlwind swept the har- 
bor clear of fog and the ship was seen moored 
near the rocks. Her head was set toward the 
billows which rolled from the open sea. 

Suddenly, in the midst of a terrible rush 
of sea, the cables parted. The ship was 
thrown upon the rocks. A cry of despair 
arose among those who stood on shore. 
Paul, in frenzy, was about to throw himself 
into the sea when a strong hand prevented 
him. In order to save his life they bound 
him fast with a long rope and let him leap 
into the water. He tried to reach the ship, 
only to be flung back upon the sands. 

The crew threw themselves into the sea. 
Those on shore saw a young woman stretch- 
ing out her arms in piteous entreaty. It was 
Virginia, almost the last to remain on board. 
In a moment she, too, was struggling in the 
cruel sea. 

Paul, unconscious and bleeding from his 
last attempt to reach the ship, was carried to 



PAUL AND VIRGINIA 61 

a neighboring house, while old Domingo and 
other friends searched the beach for the body 
of Virginia. 

At last in despair they started back to tell 
Virginia's mother of the girl's tragic death. 
On the way some negroes told them that 
wreckage had been driven in at Palm River 
Valley, and so Domingo and his companion 
turned aside to look once again for the body. 

There on the sand, half buried, yet with a 
serene and beautiful face, lay the maiden, 
richly clad. One hand rested upon her 
gown, the other was pressed to her heart and 
covered a picture of Paul. 

Lifting her gently, the servants carried her 
to a fisherman's hut and left her. 

In the morning Paul was brought home. 
He had regained his senses, but he could not 
utter a word. His coming brought a ray of 
hope. 

After a beautiful and touching ceremony, 
in which the black people took a part, they 
buried the lovely body on the western side 
of the church, at a point where she had often 
rested when on her way to Mass, with Paul, 
and there a few weeks later they brought his 
body in order that he might rest forever by 
her side. 



HUGHES 

rpHOMAS HUGHES was horn October SO, 1822, 
-^ ai Uffington, Berks. In 18S4 his faiher sent 
Tomto Rugby tohe under (he charge of Doctor Arnold; 
the doctor and the father had been feUow-students at 
Oriel College, Oxford. Both school and master 
were made world-known by the book, " Tom Brown^s 
School DaysJ^ Tom Hughes must have been very 
much the same sort of schoolboy as the hero of the 
story, but in fact, George, his brother, was the orig- 
inal of Tom, as Dean Stanley was the original of 
Arthur. 

Thomas Hughes followed in his father^ s footsteps 
at Oriel; he was later called to the bar, and eventvr 
ally was appointed a county court judge. 

His life was one of true service to humanity; 
Frederick Maurice was the great influence that 
worked upon him, and he was of the group, along 
with Charles Kingsley, who devoted themselves to 
the cause of the Workingmen^s College. He sat in 
Parliament, always a devoted friend of his friends, 
the workingmen; he tried his hand at an idealistic 
colony, called Rugby, in Tennessee; he was a fre- 
quent visitor to America^ and was a great friend and 



HUGHES 63 

admirer of James Russell LoweU, whose influence 
over him is shown in the frequeni quotations in his 
books. His other volumes included a sequel to ^^Tom 
Brown at Oxford,^^ '^Religio Laid,'' and his ^^Memr 
oir of a Brother.'' Bui he wiU always he remewr 
bered as the sane and great-hearted author who has 
understood something of the soul of a schoolboy, and 
who has written the greatest book in English of the 
schoolboy's life. 



TOM BROWN'S SCHOOL DAYS 

By THOMAS HUGHES 

Condensation by 
PROF. WILLIAM FENWICK HARRIS 

"TUST as Tom was swallowing his last 
^ mouthful (three o'clock in the morning), 
winding his comforter round his throat, and 
tucking the ends into the breast of his coat, 
the horn sounds. Boots looks in and says, 
'TaUy-ho, sir,' and they hear the ring and the 
rattle of the four fast trotters and the town- 
made drag as it dashes up to the Peacock. 

"'Anything for us, Bob?' says the burly 
guard, dropping down from behind, and 
slapping himself across the chest. 

"'Young genTm'n, Rugby,' answers a 
hostler. 

"'Tell young gent to look alive,' says the 
guard, opening the hind-boot and shootmg 
the parcels in after examining them by the 
lamps. 'Here, shove the portmanteau up 



TOM BROWN'S 



SCHOOL DAYS 65 

Now there. 



atop — I'll fasten him presently. 
sir, jump up behind.' 

"'Good-by, father — my love at home.' A 
last shake of the hand. Up goes Tom, the 
guard catching his hatbox and holding on 
with one hand, while with the other he claps 
the horn to his mouth. Toot, toot, toot! 
the hostlers let go their heads, the four bays 
plunge at the collar, and away goes the 
Tally-ho into the darkness, forty-five seconds 
from the time they had pulled up." 

So Tom Brown started to begin his school 
days at Rugby when William the Fourth sat 
upon his throne. Squire Brown had medi- 
tated something as follows the night before: 
"Shall I tell him to mind his word and to 
make himself a good scholar? Well, but he 
isn't sent to school for that— at any rate, not 
for that mainly. I don't care a straw for 
Greek particles or the digamma; no more 
does his mother. What is he sent to school 
for? Well, partly because he wanted so to 
go. If he'll only turn out a brave, helpful, 
truth-teUing Englishman, and a gentleman, 
and a Christian, that's all I want." Upon 
this view of the case he framed his last words 
to Tom. "And now, Tom, my boy, re- 
member you are going at your own earnest 



1 



66 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

request^ to be chucked into this great school^ 
Kke a young bear with all your troubles before 
you — earlier than we should have sent you 
perhaps." (Tom was nine.) "If schools 
are what they were in my time, you'll see a 
great many cruel blackguard things done 
and hear a deal of foul bad talk. But never 
fear. You tell the truth, keep a brave and 
kind heart, and never listen, or say anything 
you wouldn't have your mother and sister 
hear, and you'll never feel ashamed to come 
home, or we to see you." 

Tom's father was a great asset to the boy. 
For though he belonged to what is called the 
upper middle class, the opmion which the 
squire loved to propound above all others 
was the belief that a man is to be valued 
wholly and solely for that which he is in 
himself, for that which stands up in the four 
fleshly walls of him, apart from clothes, 
rank, fortune, and all externals whatsoever. 
He held, further, that it didn't matter a straw 
whether his son associated with lords' sons 
or plowmen's sons, provided they were 
brave and honest. So Tom had a merry and 
right democratic time with the boys of the 
village, and learned much that stood him in 
good stead when he got to Rugby, among 



TOM BROWN'S SCHOOL DAYS 67 

other things to value man or boy wholly for 
what was in him, whether it was Harry Win- 
bum, the quickest and best boy in the 
parish, who taught him the turns and holds 
which later carried him through his great 
fight with the bully of Rugby; or poor 
Jacob Doodle-calf (as the boys nicknamed 
him), in whose hands everything came to 
pieces and in whose head nothing would 
stick, or Job Rudkin, whose scandalized 
mother demanded, on the occasion of a visit 
from Madam Brown, "Job, Job, where's thy 
cap?" 

"What! beant 'e on ma head, mother?" 
replied Job, slowly extricating one hand from 
a pocket and feeling for the article in ques- 
tion, which he found on his head and left 
there, to his mother's horror and Tom's 
great delight. 

Rugby was a new world for Tom. He was 
a sturdy and combative urchin, able to fend 
for himself on his own heath; yet it was a 
great boon for him that he fell into the hands 
of a boy of his own age, but a bit ahead of 
him at Rugby. The first sight he encoun- 
tered on his arrival was a lordly crowd of 
youngsters who looked quite as if they owned 
the place. One of these young heroes ran 



1 



68 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

out from the rest and accosted Tom. '^I 
say, you fellow, is your name Brown?'' 

"Yes," said Tom, in considerable astonish- 
ment, glad, however, to have lighted on some 
one already who seemed to know him. 

"Ah, I thought so; you know my old 
aunt. Miss East; she lives somewhere down 
your way in Berkshire. She wrote to me 
that you were coming to-day, and asked me 
to give you a lift. You see,'' said his friend, 
as they strolled up toward the school gates, 
"a great deal depends on how a fellow cuts 
up at first. If he's got nothing odd about 
him, and answers straightforward and holds 
his head up, he gets on. You see, I'm doing 
the handsome thing by you because my 
father knows yours; besides, I want to please 
the old lady. She gave me half a sov this 
half, and perhaps '11 double it next if I keep 
in her good books." 

Thus began a friendship which lasted 
through all their school days and meant 
much to both of them. Friendship and 
loyalty and good sportsmanship are great 
features in this book, which shows an insight 
into the brain and heart of a boy which is 
just as wise in the year of our Lord 1920 as 
it was in the days of WiUiam the Fourth. 



TOM BROWN'S SCHOOL DAYS 63 

Tom and East were together in games, in 
mischief, in fights, in good deeda, or in devil- 
try, as they were in ingenious syndicating 
methods of working out the mysteries of the 
Greek and Latin languages. And years later, 
when the wise "Doctor," Arnold of Rugby, 
decided that Tom was headed toward de- 
struction, it was by means of friendship for a 
weaker boy who needed his protection that 
he rescued him. What was the marvel of the 
Doctor's power over boys? "We couldn't 
enter into half that we heard; we hadn't the 
knowledge of our own hearts or the knowl- 
edge of one another; and little enough of the 
faith, hope, and love needed to that end. 
But we listened, as all boys in their better 
moods will listen (aye, and men, too, for the 
matter of that), to a man whom we felt to 
be, with all his heart and soul and strength, 
striving against whatever was mean and un- 
manly and unrighteous in our little world. 
It was not the cold clear voice of one giving 
advice and warning from serene heights to 
those who were struggling and sinning be- 
low, but the warm, living voice of one who 
was fighting for us and by our sides, and call- 
ing on us to help him and ourselves and one 
another. And so, wearily and little by little. 



70 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CX)NDENSED 

^wras brought home to the young boy, for the 
first time, the meaning of his life: that it 
was no fool's or sluggard's paradise into 
which he had wandered by chance, but a 
battle-field ordained from of old, where there 
are no spectators, but the youngest must take 
his side, and the stakes are life and death. 
And he who roused this consciousness in 
them showed them at the same time, by 
every word he spoke and by his whole daily 
life, how that battle was to be fought; and 
stood there before them their fellownsoldier 
and the captain of their guard. The true 
sort of captain, too, for a boys' army, one 
who had no misgivings and gave no uncertain 
word of command, and, let who would yield 
or make a truce, would fight the fight out (so 
every boy felt) to the last gasp and the last 
drop of blood. 

And so Tom lived his life from the first 
green days to the last memorable night, 
when he was "chaired" round the quad- 
rangle by the eleven, shouting in chorus, 
"For he's a jolly good fellow," himself as 
great a boy as all the rest, despite the passage 
of the years and his dignity of captain. It 
is a story of humanness, with aU its good 
points and its frailties, but especially of 



TOM BROWN'S SCHOOL DAYS 71 

loyalty and of friendship; of games, so much 
like our own in spirit, and yet so different 
in details; of East and Arthur, of the bru- 
taUties of the old fagging system, the school 
bully and Tom's cMc fight with him, of the 
final war of independence against what was 
mean and sordid. 

*''I want to leave behind me/ said Tom, 
speaking low, 'the name of a fellow who 
never bullied a little boy nor turned his back 
on a big one.' And then, *I would sooner 
have the Doctor's good opinion of me as I 
really am than any man's in the world.' " 



SCOTT 

nnHE majority of Sir Walter ScotPs novels were 
-^ pMiahed arumymouely. ^'Waverley^^ ap- 
peared in 1814} and not until 1827 was it formaUy 
acknowledged that Scott was the author of *'The 
Waverley Novels.'^ A few Edinburgh friends were 
always in (he secret and year hy year the circle of 
those who knew was widened. Bui to thousands 
and thousands of rapt readers the auihor remained 
^^The Great Unknown.'^ Even those who actually 
knew Scott to he the auihor were sometimes puzzled. 
He had official law duties which he did not shirk; 
he appeared in society more than many busy men; 
each year his name was signed to so many articles 
and reviews that it seemed incredible that he could 
find time for anything else. 

The explanation lay in Scott^s ability to concen- 
trate. He knew what he wanted to say and he spent 
little time hunting for phrases or polishing his sen- 
tences. There is a familiar anecdote of a visitor to 
Edinburgh, dining with convivial friends and look- 
ing out of a window at a hand which went hack and 
forth, hack and forth, across sheets of paper. '^It 
never stops,^ said his host. . . . It is the same 



SCOTT 73 

every nights The vmtor suggested that it wds per- 
haps a diligent clerk. ^'No, hoysj^ his friend re-- 
plied, "/ well know whose hand it is — His Walter 
ScoWs:' 

Sometimes Scott was so racked by pain thai he 
could not write. " The Bride of Lammermoor^^ and 
'^Ivanhoe^* were dictated while the author was suffer- 
ing so intensely from cramps that between sentences 
he screamed aUmd in agony. But when he was 
begged to stop and rest he answered, *^Nay, Willie, 
only see that the doors are fast.'* 






WAVERLEY 

By SIR WALTER SCOTT 

Condensation by 
HENRY T. SCHNITTKIND, Ph.D. 

JET US for a few thrilling minutes trans- 
^ port ourselves to Scotland in 1745, when 
its Hi^iland forests teemed with the caves 
of robbers and its moors resoimded with the 
shouting of the chieftains as they battled to 
restore the exiled House of Stuart to the 
throne, then occupied by King George II. 

Are you ready? Then let us join the 
handsome yoimg English officer, Edward 
Waverley . He is about to visit the cavern of 
the Hi^and robber, Donald Bean Lean, 
little dreaming of the maze of adventures into 
which this visit will lead him. Waverley is 
enjojdng a furlough at the Scottish Low- 
land mansion of the eccentric, garrulous, 
and lovable Baron of Bradwardine. The 
baron's seventeen-year-old daughter, Rose 
Bradwardine, "with a profusion of hair of 



paly gold, and a skin like the snow of her 
own mountains in whiteness," has fallen in 
love with Waverley, who, however, finds her 
tender attentions too tame for his poetic 
imagination. It is his ambition to explore 
the wild regions of romance, and fortunately 
an opportunity presents itself. The baron's 
cattle, having been stolen by the robber, 
Donald Bean Lean, are restored through the 
interposition of the baron's friends, the 
powerful Highland chieftain, Fergus Mac- 
Ivor. The chieftain's lieutenant, Evan Dhu 
Maccombich, invites Waverley to visit Don- 
ald Bean Lean's den. After a journey 
through Lowland glen and brae, over High- 
land lake and forest, they arrived at the 
cavern, where Waverley spends an interesting 
night in the presence of Donald Bean Lean 
and his company of robbers, who come singly 
or in groups, each cutting with his dirk a 
slice of flesh from a carcass suspended in the 
cave, broiling the steak and washing it down 
with draughts of undiluted whisky. A 
buxom Highland lass, the robber's daughter, 
takes care of this romantic den. 

The next morning Evan Dhu Maccom- 
bich induces Waverley to visit the Highland 
mansion of his master, Fergus Maclvor, 



76 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

whose handsome face ''resembles a smilmg 
summer's day in which, however, one can 
detect signs that it may thimder and lighten 
before evening. '* His love for his beautiful 
and accomplished sister. Flora Maclvor, is 
equaled only by his ambition to restore the 
eddied Stuart family to the throne. 

Fergus entertains Waverley at a pictu- 
resque banquet attended by hundreds of the 
clansmen of Maclvor. After the banquet 
Flora asks Waverley to meet her in her 
favorite haimt near a cascade. As Edward 
approached the waterfall ''the sun, now 
stoopmg in the west, seemed to add more 
than human briUiancy to the fuU expressive 
darkness of Flora's eyes. Edward thought 
he had never, even in his wildest dreams, hn- 
agined a picture of such exquisite loveliness.'' 

Conscious of her charms in this "Eden in 
the wilderness," Flora sings to him a stirring 
martial song which she accompanies on a 
small Scottish harp, the melody blending 
harmoniously with the soimd of the waters of 
the cataract. Waverley, bewitched by her 
loveliness, proposes to Flora, who promptly 
rejects him. 

Disappointed, but not discouraged, Waver- 
ley gladly accepts an invitation to remain at 



Fergus Maclvor's mansion for a few days. 
While attending a stag-hunt he sustains an 
injury which keeps him in bed for some time. 
On his recovery he is both astonished and 
incensed to learn that the colonel of his 
regiment has reduced him to the ranks for 
"absence without leave." His anger is ag- 
gravated by a letter from his father, who, 
through a political blunder, has lost a high 
position in the court of King George. At 
the same time, too, Rose Bradwardine writes 
to him that her father, the baron, has been 
obhged to flee in order to escape arrest for 
his adherence to the cause of the exiled 
Stuarts. 

Despite these apparent acts of injustice 
Waverley remains loyal to King George and 
decides to return home. On the way to 
England, however, he is arrested and charged 
with desertion and treason. Knowing him- 
self to be innocent, he is mystified at this 
turn of affairs. What plot has been hatched 
against him, and by whom? His stupe- 
faction increases when he is rescued by a 
band of Highlanders. Who are these High- 
landers? And why do they interest them- 
selves in him? These and similar questions 
perplex his bewildered senses. 



78 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

Wounded during the rescue, he is nursed 
back to health in a peasant's hut by a young 
girl who always manages to make her escape 
whenever he tries to catch a gb'mpse of her. 
When his health is restored the Highlanders 
take him to Edinburgh, where he meets his 
friends, Fergus Maclvor and the Baron of 
Bradwardine, among the insurgents who are 
making an attempt to recover the throne for 
their gallant leader, the exiled Prince Charles 
Edward. Waverley now feels compelled to 
join this army. 

Just before enlisting Waverley tries once 
more to win Flora's love, but is again re- 
pulsed. He therefore throws himself heart 
and soul into the cause of the yoimg prince. 

The army is about to engage in its first 
battle. The sun has just risen. The rocks, 
and the very sky itself, "resound with the 
clang of the bagpipes." The mountaineers 
rouse themselves with the hum and bustle of 
a multitude of bees, arming and ready to 
swarm out of their hives. 

The insurgents win the battle and Waver- 
ley captures a brave English officer who re- 
mains alone beside his cannon after the others 
have fled. The officer turns out to be a 
certain Colonel Talbot, an old friend of the 



WAVERLEY 79 

house of Waverley whom Edward has never 
met before. Colonel Talbot has left an 
invaUd wife in order to find Waverley and 
to induce him to return home, since his con- 
duct has put the entire Waverley family into 
danger. 

When Edward leama that Colonel Talbot's 
imprisonment is Ukely to cost the hfe of his 
sick wife, he obtains the colonel's release. 
In return for this kindness Colonel Talbot 
promises to intercede with the English king 
in Waverley's behalf. The way for such a 
plea has fortunately been paved by the 
revelation of some of the mysteries attending 
the arrest of Waverley for desertion and 
treason. By means of a packet of letters, 
which Donald Bean Lean's daughter has 
sUpped into Edward's baggage, he leams 
that her father, the Highland robber, being 
in the service of Prince Charles Edward, and 
wishing to gain favor in his eyes, has con- 
cocted a plot whereby the British govern- 
ment was led to believe that Waverley was a 
traitor, thereby forcing him into the army of 
the insurgent prince. Only one question now 
remains unexplained. Who was the girl that 
niu^ed him during his fever in the peasant's 
hut? 



80 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

Before the solution is found to this ques- 
tion the insurgent army is totally defeated, 
Fergus Maclvor is captured, the prince es- 
capes, and Waverley, who is now also a 
fugitive, pays a secret visit to the mansion 
of the Baron of Bradwardine, for he is 
anxious to learn about the fate of some of his 
friends. He finds the baron in hiding in 
that selfsame hut where he had been nursed 
during his fever. Here he learns that it was 
Rose Bradwardine who nursed him. It was 
Rose, also, who had paid Donald Bean Lean 
with her mother's jewehy in order to induce 
him to rescue Waverley after his arrest for 
treason. Overcome with gratitude for such 
devotion, Edward asks the Baron of Brad- 
wardine for his daughter's hand. He can 
now marry her in security; for, thanks to the 
kindness of Colonel Talbot and other in- 
fluential Englishmen, both he and the baron 
have been pardoned. 

It takes the loquacious baron an hour to 
tell Rose of Edward's love for her. It takes 
Edward just five minutes to convince her 
of it. 

Their happiness would now be complete 
but for the sad fate of Fergus Maclvor, who 
has been condemned to death. He faces the 



WAVERLEY 81 

executioner unflinchingly, expressing no re- 
gret for his fate, but only the hope that 
"they will set my head on the Scotch gate, 
that I may look, even after death, to the blue 
hills of my own country, which I love so 
dearly/' 

With this shadow to mar the sunshine 
of their happiness, Edward aud Rose are 
married. 

Thus we come to the end of the romantic 
tale, and we must again return to the drab 
reality of our every-day existence. But .be- 
fore so doing, let us, together with Flora 
Maclvor, who has joined the Scottish 
Benedictine nims in Paris, bid the happy 
couple good luck and adieu! 



DICKENS 

^^nnHE child 18 father of the man^^ was never 
^ better ilbistraied than in the case of Charles 
Dickens. His first friends were hooks, good books. 
He read books of travel and the *' Arabian Nights,^' 
Cervantes, Fielding , and Smollett. And as a child 
he learned to know and to love England — the Eng- 
land of pleasant country lanes, hedge-hordered, that 
ran to Oie sea or to quiet green open spaces before 
stately cathedrals. 

And he knew, too, the horror of mean London 
streets and numbing drudgery. For two years of 
his childhood he pasted labels upon blacking bot- 
tles, lived in an attic with two ragamuffins, and 
when he saw his parents once a week, he had to go 
to prison, where his father was confined for debt. 
Some of this London that he knew is in ''Oliver 
Tvoist,*^ and it crops out in other tales. Most of it, 
however, is in ''David Copperfield,^^ where his father 
is depicted as the immortal Micawber. 

The joy of life and the bitterness, the kindliness 
of men and the cruelty. These things were burned 
into the mind and soul of the sensitive boy. They 
are in the books of the man. 



DOMBEY AND SON 

By CHAELBS DICKENS 

Condensation by 
CAROLINE TICKNOR 



'T'HIS story opens in the gloomy mansion of 
■*■ Mr. Dombey, head of the famous house 
of Dombey and Son, who is exulting in the 
birth of ''little Paul," heir to his name and 
wealth. 

This great event is followed by the death 
of Mrs. Dombey, who breathes her last I 
clasping her little daughter Florence to her 
heart. This child, neglected by her proud, 
cold father, tries vainly to win his love, but 
he, with all his hopes and his affection cen- 
tered upon his son, finds no place in his 
heart for Florence. 

All the advantages that wealth can offer 
are heaped on little Paul, who is a delicate 
child, old far beyond his years, and totally 
unfitted to fulfil his father's expectations. 



84 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

While gentle and loving to those about him, 
Paul's adoration for his sister Florence sur- 
passes all his other interests, a fact which 
rankles in the breast of his father, who would 
be first m the affection of his son. 

Wishing to hasten Paul's education, Mr. 
Dombey sends him to Doctor Blimber's 
school, famed for its method of crushing out 
each bojdsh trait and making learned prigs of 
aU its pupils. Here the boy finds a friend and 
champion in Toots, the head boy of the 
school, who falls a victim to the charms of 
Florence, but in the end consoles himself by 
marrying her faithful maid, the sprightly 
Susan Nipper. 

The story of Paul's life at Doctor Blim- 
ber's, where his weak frame is tried beyond 
endurance and finally breaks down, is a 
pathetic one, although it is enlivened by 
much that is amusing and absurd in the 
descriptions of the school and of the Blimber 
family. 

Fatally ill, the boy is carried home to the 
Dig house, where all the skill in London, 
coupled with his sister's devotion, cannot 
save him, and after Ungering awhile he shps 
away from the grand future his father has so 
carefully arranged. The death-bed scene 



DOMBEY AND SON S5 

where little Paul leaves the big house for- 
ever is one of the most famous in fiction. 

Clasped in his sister's arms, the dying boy i 
murmurs: "How fast the river runs . . 
it's very near the sea. I hear the waves.* 
. . . "And now there was a shore before him — 
Who stood on the bank." He sees his 
mother there awaiting him and whispers, 
' The light about her head is shining on me 
as I go." 

The bereaved father, in an agony of grief 
and blasted hopes, turns coldly from the 
heartbreaking appeal of his sorrowing daugh- 
ter, who pleads for some response in this dark 
hour. Bidding her seek her own apartments, 
he shuts himself up in his rooms alone. 

Beside the dark threads in this story are , 
woven many bright ones which center in 
the humble dwelling of old Solomon Gills, 
maker of ships' instruments, and his devoted 
nephew, Walter Gay, who with their good 
friend Captain Cuttle form a delightful trio. 
The captain, who wears a hook in place of 
his right hand, and suffers patiently under 
the insults and abuse of his landlady, the 
terrible Mrs. MacStinger, is one of Dickens's 
best-beloved characters. 

Walter, who has a modest position in the 1 



86 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

great house of Dombey, watches with sym- 
pathy and admiration the career of the neg- 
lected daughter of his employer, and upon 
one occasion has the joy of rescuing her when 
she is lost in London. From the night when 
the frightened child is warmed and com- 
forted at the sign of the "Wooden Mid- 
shipman'' Florence holds Uncle Sol and 
Walter in warmest regard. When, later, 
during Paul's illness, Walter comes to plead 
for a loan to save his uncle's property, the 
sympathetic boy at once becomes his cham- 
pion and secures the money from his father. 
From this time on Paul takes a special in- 
terest in Walter and on his death-bed begs 
that he shall be remembered. This message 
Florence brings to Walter, pledging to him 
thenceforth her sisterly affection. 

The fortunes of the house of Dombey are 
guided principally by the clever and "cat- 
like" manager, James Carker, with gleaming 
teeth and a perpetual smile, the instrument 
and confidant of Dombey, who by his flattery 
and cunning has gained almost complete 
control over his master's business. Working 
always to satisfy his own ambitions, he mis- 
trusts the growing partiality for Walter Gay 
and sends him on a voyage to the Indies, ex- 



DOMBEY AND SON 

periencing keen satisfaction when ttie youth 
is shipwrecked and reported drowned. 

This loss adds one more sorrow to those 
akeady the portion of Florence, whose father, 
emerging from the gloom of his apartments, 
seeks to divert his mind by going on a journey 
with his friend Major Bagstock, a garrulous 
old society beau. They travel to Leaming- 
ton, where Mr. Dombey is introduced to some 
of the major's friends, and meets Mrs. 
Skewton and her widowed daughter, the cold 
and beautiful Edith Granger, who at once | 
attracts his fancy. 

Edith is proud, scornful, imperious, and 
for these traits the proud and dominating 
man admires her the more. He offers her 
wealth and position, and she, needing these 
things, accepts him, scorning meanwhile 
both the man and his offering, but will- i 
ing to satisfy the irritating demands of her 
scheming mother, with whom her Ufe is un- ] 
endurable. 

A loveless marriage follows and the haughty ' 
wife asserts her own strong will, refuses to 
further the social ambitions of her husband, 
and enrages him by showering affection upon 
Florence. At last, goaded by Dombey's 
effort to break her spirit and ready to be 



88 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS C30NDENSED 

revenged upon him for his endeavor to hu- 
miliate her by orders sent her through his 
agent; Carker, she consents to fly from her 
home at the entreaty of her husband's paid 
minioU; who from the first had fallen a victim 
to her beauty. Having revenged herself 
upon her husband by thus humiUating him, 
Edith proceeds to cast oflf Carker, whom she 
despises; she meets him at Dijon by appoint- 
ment, and in the moment when he is glorying 
in th^ attainment of his desire turns on him 
denounces him, and before he can stop her 
rushes from the apartment, making good her 
escape, while he is left to confront his pur- 
suer, her enraged husband, who has tracked 
them to Dijon. 

Foiled and entrapped, Carker flees back to 
England, eluding his pursuer, only to be agam 
tracked to his hiding-place. When he believes 
himself safe from detection, he suddenly 
spies Dombey advancing toward him across 
the platform of a railway station, and, dodging 
in affright on to the tracks behind him, Carker 
is killed by an oncoming train. 

In the hour of her father's hmniliation 
Florence once more turns to him with loving 
protestations, but he, enraged at the remem- 
brance that she has ever won the love he has 



DOMBEY AND SON 

sought vainly, casts her off with an oath and 
strikes her brutally, 

Partially stunned and feeling herself home- 
iess and fatherless, Florence rushes half 
crazed into the streets of London, and, faint- 
ing with exhaustion, finds shelter at the 
"Wooden Midshipman," now in the charge 
of Captain Cuttle. Following the sudden 
disappearance of old Sol Gills, the captain 
has taken possession of the place, not Joiow- 
ing if his friend, whose life had become 
insupportable without his beloved nephew, 
was alive or dead. 

Tenderly welcomed to this humble home, 
Florence remains in hiding imtil the unex- 
pected arrival of Walter, who suddenly ap- 
pears upon the scene, returning from a series 
of perilous adventures. Walter the brother 
is speedily transformed into Walter the 
lover, and the young couple are united, to the 
deUght of Captain Cuttle, also of old Sol 
Gills, who reappears from journeying to 
foreign parts in vain search for some news of 
Walter. 

Meanwhile the fortunes of the house of 
Dombey, weakened by Carker's doubtful 
transactions, and also by the loss of his 
shrewd guidance, go down in ruin, leaving 



90 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

the proud head of the firm broken in health 
and spirit, with home and fortune wrecked. 

Then, tenderly forgiving all, Florence goes 
to her father and takes him to her home, 
where after a long illness he arises a changed 
man, repentant of the past, and only caring 
to devote his last days to his daughter and 
her two children — Paul who reminds him of 
his lost son, and little Florence, dearest of all 
to his penitent heart. 

This work, which was first issued in serial 
form in 1847, met with immediate success. 
Its pages contain a wealth of incident and 
character, of fun, satire, and pathos. Flor- 
ence is one of Dickens's loveliest creations, 
and Doctor Blimber's school is described in 
his finest vein. Kind Captain Cuttle is famous 
the world over, as are Mr. Toots, Mrs. Pip- 
chin, and old Joe Bagstock. The death-bed 
scene of little Paul reveals the author's 
steadfast faith in immortality, and has done 
much to comfort sorrowing hearts throughout 
the world. 




GEOBGE EUOT 



GEORGE ELIOT 



TN the memoirs of George Eliot two hooks are 
-' mentioned which have a special interest, one 
being the first book she ever read as a child, called 
"The Linnet's Life," which gave her great happi' 
ness, and the otJier Scott's " Waverley." Her friend 
Miss Simcox's article in "The Nineteenth Century 
Review " tells of George Eliot's appetite for reading. 
"Somewhere about 18£7 a friendly neighbor lent 
'Waverley' to an elder sister of litUe Mary Ann 
Evans. It was returned before the child had read 
to the end, and in her distress at the loss of the fas- 
cinating volume she began to write the story as far 
as she had read it for herself, beginning naturally 
where the story begins, with Waverley's adventures 
at Tully-Veolan, and continuing until the surprised 
elders were moved to get the book back again." 

It has been claimed that George Eliot's highly 
trained mind suppressed the impulsive heart. She 
suffered from bodily iUs most all her life, and but for 
her extraordinary mental health she could not have 
accomplished the amount of work that came from 
her brain and pen. Among the many books which 
she published were " Middlemarch," "Daniel 



92 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

Deronday^ ^^The Spanish Gypsy, ^^ a drama, and 
^^Romola,^^ which may he called a historical novel, 
a story which owes its power of aUradion and its 
vitality to its superb presentation of the character 
of Tito Melema, who belongs, not to any one period, 
hut to every generation. 

^^ Daniel Deronda," in spite of its distinction and 
its being so ably written, has never been a great 
favorite. 

Some one has said that ^'Jane Auslm despised 
the greater number of her characters, but George 
Eliot suffered with each of hers.^^ 

She had a great accumulation of book knowledge, 
but (Ms was opposed in many ways to the practical 
life led among all sorts and conditions of persons, 
so Uwt at timss some of the spontaneity of joy was 
lacking in her writings. But there were those full 
of pathos, (w when she wrote of Maggie Tulliver in 
'' The Mill on the Floss.'' 

The death of Mr. Lewes, which occurred in 1878, 
was a^ the death-blow to her artistic vitality. She 
later n^kried Mr. J. W. Cross, but she never really 
recovered from the shock of the loss of Mr. Lewes. 



ROMOLA 

By GEORGE ELIOT 

Condensation by 
PROF. WILLIAM FENWICK HARRIS 

"DOMOLA mia," said the blind scholar, 

■^^ " thou wilt reach the needful volumes — - 
thou knowest them — on the fifth shelf of the 
cabinet." 

Tito rose at the same moment with Ro- 
mola, saying, "I will reach them, if you will 
point them out," and followed her hastily 
into the adjoining small room, where the 
walls were also covered with ranges of 
books in perfect order. 

"There they are," said Romola, pointing 
upward; "every book is just where it was 
when my father ceased to see them." 

Tito stood by her without hastening to 
reach the books. They had never been in 
this room together before. 

"I hope," she continued, turning her eyes 
full on Tito with a look of grave confidence — 



94 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS C30NDENSED 

"I hope he will not weary youj this work 
makes him so happy.'' 

"And me, too, Romola — ^if you will only 
let me say, I love you — ^if you will only think 
me worth loving a little/' 

His speech was the softest murmur, and 
the dark, beautiful face, nearer to hers than 
it had ever been before, was looking at her 
with beseechmg tenderness. 

"I do love you," murmured Romola; she 
looked at him with the same simple majesty 
as ever, but her voice had never in her life 
before sunk to that murmur. It seemed to 
them both that they were looking at each 
other a long while before her lips moved 
again ; yet it was but a moment till she said, 
"I know now what it is to be happy." 

The faces just met, and the dark curls 
mingled for an instant with the rippling 
gold. Quick as hghtning after that Tito set 
his foot on a projecting ledge of the book- 
shelves and reached down the needful vol- 
umes. They were both contented to be 
silent and separate, for that first blissful ex- 
perience of mutual consciousness was all the 
more exquisite for bemg unperturbed by 
immediate sensation. 

It had all been as rapid as the irreversible 



ROMOLA 95 

mingling of waters, for even the eager and 
jealous Bardo had not become impatient. 

When they told her father, he wanted 
time for reflection. "Be patient, my chil- 
dren; you are very young." 

"No more could be said, and Romola's 
heart was perfectly satisfied. Not so Tito's. 
If the subtle mixture of good and evil pre- 
pares suffering for human truth and purity, 
there is also suffering prepared for the wrong- 
doer by the same mingled conditions. As 
Tito kissed Romola on their parting that 
evening the very strength of the thrill that 
moved his whole being at the sense that this 
woman, whose beauty it was hardly possible 
to think of as anything but the necessary 
consequence of her noble nature, loved him 
with all the tenderness that spoke in her clear 
eyes, brought a strong reaction of regret that 
he had not kept himself free from that first 
deceit which had dragged him into the danger 
of being disgraced before her. There was a 
sprig of bitterness mingled with that fountain 
of sweets." 

George Eliot's magnificent study of char- 
acter concerns itself with Florence at the 
time when Christopher Columbus was dis- 
covering America, when Savonarola was 



1 



96 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

prior to Saint Mark's and ruled the city by 
his moral energy and his fanaticism, when his 
pious frenzies^ his visions, and his predictions 
of heavenly wrath seemed to the majority of 
his feUow-citizens as commg from a more 
than mortal source; when Charles VIII of 
France invaded Italy; when the plague 
brought dire dismay; when the city was 
distraught by the struggles of the austere 
devotees of Savonarola and the gay partizans 
of pleasure; when the mighty ones of the 
land were united against poor distracted 
Florence; when Piero de' Medici was con- 
spiring to regain the power once held by 
Lorenzo the Magnificent; when finally Flor- 
ence turned against Savonarola, and he met 
his death in ignominy or martyrdom, as one 
viewed it as foe or partizan. Across the 
scene there flit the figures of Pico della 
Mirandola, of Fra Bartolommeo, of Domen- 
ico Ghirlandajo, of Cosimo di Piero, of 
Poliziano, of Bernardo del Nero, of Strozzis 
and Tomabuonis, of Niccolo MachiaveUi, of 
a ''promising youth named Michelangelo 
Buonarotti," and many others. All these 
make the setting for the lives of a woman and 
a man and the progress of their souls, the 
one upward and the other downward, as 



wonderfully drawn as ever human lives were 
portrayed by pen of man or woman. 

Florence saw Tito Melema ever making 
his way upward from the day when he found 
himself adrift after shipwreck, and was car- 
ried to the market by the omnipresent Bratti, 
merchant and huckster, and introduced to 
breakfast and a kiss from pretty little Tessa, 
and passed under the deft hand of the won- 
der-working barber-philosopher Nello. That 
shrewd craftsman with edged tools — razor or 
tongue — introduced him to the bright and 
powerful folk who frequented his shop as if 
it were a club, and brought him to the notice 
of the blind scholar Bardo, who needed just 
such a clever young student as Tito for a 
helper. From that his path was easy to the 
confidence of the great; Latin secretary to 
the state, embassies to Rome, everything 
was his, even to the envy of Niccolo Machia- 
velli. The world saw only the dazzling suc- 
cess; there were a few who marked "the 
change that came from the final departure of 
moral youthfulness," who saw the perfidies 
and desertions of the dexterous and facile 
Greek, the baseness that smiles and triumphs ; 
who knew how he had left to slavery the 
adoptive father who had rescued him and 



^8 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

made him what he was, how he proved false 
to the memory of Romola's father, who set 
Mm on his way to tritimph in Florence, how 
he betrayed his great patrons, how he de- 
ceived poor Tessa, that "sweet, pouting, 
innocent, roxmd thing," how he threw away 
the great treasure of Romola's love, and how 
his only bitter thought was that a timely, 
well-devised falsehood might have saved him 
from every fatal consequence. 

Over against the figure of the man she 
married stands Romola, "fair as the Floren- 
tine lily before it got quarrelsome and turned 
red," as the rhapsodic Nello described her. 
Her contempt of all injustice and meanness, 
the noble serenity with which she accepted, 
though not without inward struggle, all that 
life and duty brought her, the willmg service 
she rendered her father, her husband, the 
poor, the sufferers in the plague. Tito's 
abandoned father, even Tessa, her rival to 
the title of wife, the mother of Tito's children, 
the majestic self-possession which at the 
slightest touch on the fibers of affection or 
pity could become passionate with tender- 
ness — all this justified her godfather, Ber- 
nardo del Nero, in his exhortation to her 
father: "Remember, Bardo, thou hast a rare 



ROMOLA 99 

gem of thy own; take care no man gets it 
who is not likely to pay a worthy price. 
That pretty Greek has a lithe sleekness about 
him that seems marvelously fitted for slip- 
ping easily into any nest he fixes his eyes 
upon." 

But he that smiles and triumphs does not 
always triumph to the end. He is sometimes 
found out. So it was with Tito. He had 
made the last preparation for departure to a 
larger field of action. Pursued in the night 
by a crowd of angry men, he barely had time 
to leap from a bridge into the Amo. A long 
swim in the darkness — in the tumult of his 
blood he could only feel vaguely that he was 
safe and might land. But where? The 
current was having its way with him; he 
hardly knew where he was; exhaustion was 
bringing on the dreamy state that precedes 
unconsciousness. 

But now there were eyes that discerned 
him — aged, strong for the distance. Baldas- 
sare— his father — looking up blankly from 
the search to which his poverty had led him, 
had seen a white object coming along the 
stream — could that be any fortunate chance 
for him? He looked and; lotuked till the ob- 



100 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

ject gathered form; then he leaned forward 
with a start as he sat among the rank green 
stems, and his eyes seemed to be filled with a 
new light — ^yet he only watched — emotionless. 
Something was being brought to him. 

The next instant a man's body was cast 
violently on the grass two yards from him, 
and he started forward like a panther, 
clutching the velvet tunic as he fell forward 
on the body and flashed a look in the man's 
face. 

Dead — ^was he dead? The eyes were rigid. 
But no, it could not be — ^justice had brought 
him. Men looked dead sometimes, and yet 
the life came back to them. Baldassare did 
not feel feeble in that moment. He knew 
just what he could do. He got his large 
fingers within the neck of the tunic and held 
them there, kneeling on one knee beside the 
body and watching the face. In his eyes 
there was only fierceness. 

Rigid-rigid stiU. Those eyes Willi the 
half-fallen lids were locked against vengeance. 
Could it be that he was dead? Surely at 
last the eyelids were quivering; the eyes were 
no longer rigid. There was a vibratmg Ught 
in them— they opened wide. 

"Ah yes! Ypitsee me — ^you know me!" 



ROMOLA 101 

Tito knew him; but he did not know 
whether it was life or death that had brought 
him into the presence of his injured father. 
It might be death — ^and death might mean 
this chill gloom with the face of the hideous 
past hanging over him forever. 

But Baldassare's only dread was lest the 
yoxmg limbs should escape him. He pressed 
his knuckles against the round throat and 
knelt upon the chest with all the force of his 
aged frame. Let death come now! 



WASHINGTON IRVING 

TJ/TASHINGTON IRVING was ham in New 
^^ York in 178S and died at his home ^^Sunny^ 
side^* on (he Hudson in 1859. 

Intended for the law, in which he had no interest, 
impoverished by (he failure of business ventures, 
Irving turned to literature as a profession, and made 
a success which won for him a position at home and 
abroad ae (he most important American man of 
Utters of his time. ^^ Salmagundi'^ and '^Diedrich 
Knickerbocker's History of New York from (he 
Beginning of the World to the End of the Dutch 
Dynasty" gained him a reputation by their satire 
and comic power. When he went to England he 
found Sir Walter Scott ready to welcome him ae a 
friend and to start him on a literary career there. 
^^The Sketchr-Book of Geoffrey Crayon'' shows (he 
charm he found in English life, ae well ae introduces 
the world to Rip Van Winkle. *^ Bracebridge Hall" 
and '* Tales of a Traveler" established his fortunes. 
A long stay in Spain led to his '^ Columbus," '* The 
Conquest of Granada," and *'The Alhamhra." 
On his return to America his reception was that of a 
great persoruige. The traditions of men of letters 



WASHINGTON IRVING 103 

in our diplomatic profession had already begun, and 
Irving was sent as ambassador to Spain. 

His later years produced his lives of Goldsmith, 
Mohammed, and Washington. The days of pains- 
taking investigation of sources had not yet arrived; 
it was as a man of letters raiher than as a scholar 
that Irving wrote his historical hooks; the charm of 
his personality and the power to visualize people and 
circumstances helped him greatly. But his really 
creative and original work, such as ''The Sketch- 
Book^^ and ''Knickerbocker,^' will always find the 
most devoted readers of the earliest American man of 
letters. 



THE LEGEND OF SLEEPY 

HOLLOW 

By WASHINGTON IRVING 

Condensation by 
MABEL HERBERT URNER 

TN a sequestered cove of the Hudson lies the 

drowsy valley of Sleepy Hollow — once a 
remote, enchanted region, abounding in 
haunted spots and twilight superstitions'. 

The dreamy, visionary Dutch folk, de- 
scendants of the early settlers, were given to 
marvelous beliefs. Many were their fireside 
tales of ghosts and evil spirits. 

The most awesome wraith of this bewitched 
neighborhood was a headless figure on a pow- 
erful black charger, which at midnight rode 
forth from the church^graveyard. 

At every coxmtry fireside were told blood- 
curdling stories of the weird and ghoulish 
pranks of this headless horseman of Sleepy 
Hollow. 



THE LEGEND OF SLEEPY HOLLOW 105^ 

Perhaps the most superstitious soul through- 
out the valley, in the days just following the 
Revolution, was the country schoolmaster, 
Ichabod Crane. Tall, lank, long-limbed, he 
was a grotesque figure, yet not lacking in _ 
conceit. 

As was the custom he led an itinerant Hfe^l 
boarding with the farmers whose children he ^ 
taught. Since he brought the local gossip 
and helped with the chores, his periodical 
visitations were welcomed by the housewives. 

He also enlivened the long wintry evening 
with direful stories of witchcraft. In a snug 
chimney corner before a crackling wood fire 
there was fearsome pleasure in these blood- 
chilling tales. 

But for this gruesome enjoyment, how 
dearly he paid when out alone at night! 
What menacing shadows beset his path! 
Every snow-covered bush stood a sheeted 
specter in his way. 

However, it was not only these phantoms 
of the night that disturbed his peace, for his 
days were haunted by the most bewitching 
of all witches — a woman. 

In his weekly singing class was Katrina 
Van Tassel, only child of a substantial 
fanner. Famed for her beauty and vast 



106 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

expectations, the enraptured Ichabod became 
her ardent suitor. 

Gloatingly he surveyed her father's rich 
meadowlands, the overflowing bams, and the 
great, sloping-roofed farm-house filled with 
treasure of old mahogany, pewter, and silver. 
All these rich possessions made Ichabod covet 
the peerless Katrina. 

The most formidable of his many rivals 
was the roistering Brom Van Brunt, nick- 
named, from his Herculean frame, Brom 
Bones. 

He was the hero of all the coxmtry round, 
which rang with his feats of strength and 
hardihood. A reckless horseman and fore- 
most in all rural sports, he was always ready 
for a fight or a frolic. 

Yet even the old dames, startled out of 
their sleep as he clattered by at midnight, 
looked upon his wild pranks with more good- 
will than disfavor. 

This rantipole hero had chosen to lay siege 
to the blooming Katrina. And when on a 
Sxmday night his horse was tied to Van 
Tassel's palings all other suitors passed on 
in despair. 

Ichabod, however, in his r61e of singing- 
master, made frequent visits at the farm. 



THE LEGEND OF SLEEPY HOLLOW 107 

Neither old Van Tassel, an easy, indulgent 
soul, nor his busy housewife interfered with 
the pedagogue's suit; yet his wooing was 
beset with difficulties. 

Brom Bones had declared a deadly feud, 
and as Ichabod shrewdly avoided a phys- 
ical combat, he became the object of 
whimsical persecutions by Brom and his 
boon companions. 

They smoked out his singing school, broke 
into and turned topsy-turvy his schoolhouse, 
and, still worse, taught a scoundrel dog to 
whine as a rival instructor in psalmody to the 
fair Katrina. 

One fine autumnal afternoon Ichabod, in 
a pensive mood, sat enthroned on the lofty 
stool from which he ruled his laggard 
pupils. 

The buzzing stillness of the school-room 
was broken by a galloping messenger, who 
brought an invitation to a "quilting frolic" 
that evening at Van Tassel's. 

Promptly dismissing school, Ichabod fur- 
bished up his only suit of rusty black, and 
soon rode forth — a gallant cavalier to this 
bidding of his lady fair. 

Gunpowder, the bony old plow-horse, bor- 
rowed from the farmer with whom Ichabod 



108 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

was domiciled, was a suitable steed for hip 
long, gaunt frame. 

Jogging slowly along, it was after sundown 
when he reached Van Tassel's, where were 
gathered the farmer folk of the surrounding 
country. 

However, it was not the buxom lasses 
which held Ichabod enthralled; it was the 
sumptuous abundance of the supper-table. 
Such luscious ham and chicken, and heaping 
platters of doughnuts, crullers, and ginger 
cakes! 

Ichabod's rapacious appetite did ample 
justice to this repast, while he gloated over 
the opulence of which some day he might be 
master. 

Soon the soxmd of fiddling bade all to the 
dance. With Katrina as his partner, smiUng 
graciously at his amorous oglings, the lank 
but agile Ichabod clattered triumphantly 
about, while Brom Bones, sorely smitten 
with jealousy, kept broodingly aloof. 

Later, Ichabod joined the sager folk, who 
sat smoking and spinning tales of ghosts and 
apparitions, and of the headless horseman 
that nightly tethered his steed among the 
churchyard graves. 

Most terrifying were the adventures of 



THE LEGEND OF SLEEPY HOLLOW 109 

those who, on dark nights, had met that 
gruesome specter. Even Brom Bones testi- 
fied that once, overtaken by the midnight 
trooper, he had raced with him to the church 
bridge, where the horseman had vanished in 
a flash of fire. 

When at a late hour the revel broke up 
Ichabod fingered for the customary lovers* 
talk. What passed at that interview with 
the heiress was never known, but when he 
finally salfied forth it was with a dejected, 
chopfallen air. 

Had Katrina's encouragement been only a 
coquettish trick to secure her conquest of his 
rival? 

It was near the witching midnight hour 
that the crestfallen Ichabod pursued his 
sofitary travel homeward. All the stories of 
ghosts and gobhns told that evening now 
crowded hauntingly upon him. 

The night grew deeper and darker as he 
approached the lonely churchyard — som- 
brous scene of many of the tales. Suddenly 
through the leaf-stirred stillness came the 
clatter of hoofs! Something huge and mis- 
shapen loomed above the crouching shadows. 

In quaking terror Ichabod dashed ahead, 
but the unknown followed close. Then the 



110 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

moonUght, through a rifting cloud, revealed 
the headless horseman! More ghastly still, 
his head rested on the pommel of his saddle ! 

Away they flew, Ichabod madly spurring 
Gunpowder, while the sinister horseman came 
galloping after. 

As they reached the haunted road, turning 
oflf to Sleepy Hollow, the girth of Ichabod's 
saddle broke. Gripping his steed around the 
neck, as the saddle slipped from beneath him, 
he still plxmged on, with the ghostly rider 
pursuing him. 

The church bridge, where in Brom Bones's 
tale the specter had vanished, was just ahead. 
Another moment and old Gxmpowder was 
thundering over the resounding planks. 

Here Ichabod, casting a backward glance, 
saw the gobhn rising in his stirrups and in 
the very act of hurling his head. 

The horrible missile crashed against Icha- 
bod's cranium and he plunged headlong into 
the road — ^while Gxmpowder and the ghostly 
horseman swept on. 

The next morning the old horse was found, 
saddleless, grazing at his master's gate. But 
no Ichabod ! 

In the road by the church was found the 



THE LEGEND OF SLEEPY HOLLOW 111 

saddle. Farther on was the trampled hat of 
the xinfortunate pedagogue — and close beside 
it a shattered pumpkin 1 

The whole neighborhood was aroused. 
Brom Bones's story and all the other weird 
tales were called to mind, and the good folk 
sagely concluded that Ichabod had been 
carried off by the headless horseman. 

Soon the school was removed to a less 
haimted section. Another pedagogue reigned, 
and Ichabod became only a legend. 

It is true that several years later an old 
farmer, returning from New York, brought 
news that Ichabod was still alive; that fear 
of the goblin and chagrin at his dismissal by 
the heiress had caused his flight; that in 
another part of the country he had taught 
school, studied law, and become justice of 
the Ten-pound Court. 

Brom Bones, who, shortly after hia rival's 
disappearance, had led the blooming Katrina 
to the altar, was observed to look exceedingly 
knowing whenever the story of Ichabod was 
related. At the mention of the pumpkin he 
never failed to laugh heartily, which led some 
to si^pect that he knew more about the 
matter than he chose to disclose. 

The old country wives, however, maintain 



112 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CX)NDENSED 

to this day that Ichabod was spirited away 
by the headless horseman. And many grue- 
some tales of the pedagogue's fate are still 
told round the wintry firesides of Sleepy 
Hollow. 




JAiaa FENIMOEE COOPER 



COOPER 



ILTARDLY had Washington Irving begun the 
■* -* career idth his "Knickerbocker History" and 
*'The Sketch-Book" which made him the first Ameri- 
can man of letters to achieve an international repTi- 
tation when he was joined in thai pleasant eminence 
by James Fenimore Cooper. 

Irving wrote on the traditional lines of English 
literature. Cooper found something new. He 
presented the recent hut romantic past of his ovm 
country on land and sea, and he introduced to the 
world the figure of the nobh red man, with the gla- 
mour of mystery which the unknown always adds to 
romance. He is much more read to-day than 
Irving; his hold in foreign lands is particularly 
strong, probably due to the fact that his style could 
only be improved by translation. The thrill that 
comes from a wholesome story of adventure has a 
lure for all humanity, as have brave deeds of der- 
ring-do. The thirteen-year-old Yale freshman {who 
never got his degree) is known to thousands who have 
never heard of his great president, TiTnothy 
Dwight. "The Spy," "The Pilot," "The Last of 
the Mohicans," "The Two Admirals," "The 



114 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

Pioneers/' " The Prairie,'' " The Red Rover," " The 
PaJlhfirider'' are some of his hooks most familiar, 
but every one has his own particular taste in advent- 
ure. Bon voyage to the young in heart who have yet 
to meet James Fenimore Cooper. 




THE LAST OF THE 
MOHICANS 

By JAMES FENIMORE COOPER 

Condenaation by 
THOMAS D. CONNOLLY 

TN the third year of the war between France 
and England in North America news came 
to Ford Edward, where lay General Webb 
with five thousand m^en, that Montcalm was 
advancing on Fort William Henry, held by 
the veteran Scotchman, Munro. Webb, in- 
stead of going to the assistance of Munro, 
sent him a scant handful of men. 

Munro's daughters, Cora and Alice, de- 
termined to visit their father, despite the 
danger. Captain Dimean Heyward, deeply 
in love with Alice, offered to serve as their 
escort. The party set out by little-fre- 
quented paths, guided by an Indian, Le 
Renard Subtil, or Magua, as he was known to 
his tribe. An eccentric singing-master, David 



116 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

Gamut, attached himself to the partyi despite 
Heyward's protests. 

As the misuspecting travelers pressed 
through the thick forests, a savage face 
glared at them from a thicket. Magua was 
leading the party into a trap. 

Two men sat by the banks of a small 
stream about an hour's journey from Fort 
Edward. One, a magnificent specimen of 
Indian manhood, had a terrifying emblem of 
death painted upon his naked breast. The 
other, tall, with the lithe muscles of the 
woodsman, was white. 

"Listen, Hawkeye," said the Indian, "we 
Mohicans came and made this land ours. 
Then came the Dutch, and gave my people 
the fire-water. Then they parted with their 
land. Now I, a chief and a sagamore, have 
never seen the sim shine except through the 
trees, and have never visited the graves of 
my fathers. And my son, Uncas, the last of 
the tribe, is the last of the Mohicans." 

As his name was mentioned, Uncas slipped 
into view and seated himself gravely by the 
side of his father, Chingachgook. 

Almost inmi^iately the little cavalcade 
from Fort Edward came into view. Hey- 



THE LAST OF THE MOHICANS 117 

ward, addressing Hawkeye, inquired as to 
their whereabouts, explaining that their 
Indian guide had lost his way. 

"An Indian lost in the woods?" said the 
scout in perplexity. "I should like to look 
at the creature." 

He crept stealthily into the thicket, to 
return after a moment, his suspicions fully 
confirmed. Explaining to Heyward that the 
Indian had tried to trap the party, he out- 
lined a plan for the capture of the traitor. 
But, as they stole upon him, Magua divined 
their plan and vanished in the thick woods. 

Hawkeye realized the serious plight of the 
little party and volunteered to help them. 
They set off up the river in a canoe, bound 
for a cave where none but the scout and his 
Indian companions had ever set foot. This 
haven they reached in safety, although pur- 
sued by a band of Indians as they crossed 
the lake. 

They had barely reached their island 
fortress when Magua's band appeared on 
their trail. The scout and his companions 
valiantly defended their cave against a horde 
of Indians, inflicting heavy losses until their 
ammunition gave out. Then Cora, seeing 
that resistance was useless, begged the scout 



1 



118 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

and two Indians to slip down the river and 
attempt to secure reinforcements at Fort 
William Henry. But a short while after the 
scouts set off Magua and his warriors 
appeared and made captive the whites who 
remained in the cave. 

Magua divided his band, and set off with 
his captives, attended by a handful of braves. 
He offered to send Alice to her father if 
Ck)ra would go with him to his wigwam. 
Alice indignantly refused, and Magua, en- 
raged, prepared to torture his captives. 

Just as a brave rushed at Alice, with toma- 
hawk raised, a rijQe cracked, and the Indian 
dropped. Hawkeye, followed by Uncas and 
Chingachgook, rushed upon the bewildered 
Indians; only Magua escaped the fury of 
their attack. The captives were freed, and 
in a short time the party entered Fort Will- 
iam Henry, despite the fact that Montcalm 
was attacking it. 

Their stay in the fort was brief, however, 
for Munro, his forces heavily outnumbered 
by those of Montcalm, was forced to capitu- 
late. Montcalm promised that the defend- 
ers of the fort should be permitted to depart 
for Ford Edward, and guaranteed that they 



THE LAST OF THE MOHICANS 119 

should not be molested. Munro agreed, and 
the English abandoned the stronghold. 

As the women and children were filing 
across the plain before the fort, an Indian 
reached out for a trinket on the breast of a 
woman who bore a child in her arras. Af- 
frighted, the woman drew back, whereupon 
the Indian seized the child and dashed it to 
the ground, then buried his tomahawk in the 
head of the woman. In an instant the 
Indians of Montcalm's army fell upon the 
helpless women and children. Death was 
everywhere and in horrible forms. 

Suddenly Magua caught sight of Cora 
and Alice, who stood helpless by a pile of 
slain. He seized the terrified girls and 
hurried them off into the woods. Gamut, 
whom the Indians venerated as one insane, 
was permitted to accompany them. 

A few days later Hawkeye and his Indian 
companions, with Heyward and Munro, 
stood on the bloody plain. They had searched 
carefully for the bodies of the girls, but with- 
out success. Hawkeye, certain that Magua 
had carried them off, searched diligently for 
the trail. Suddenly they found it, and the 
Uttle party set off after the wily Magua. 

The trail led to an Indian village, where 



120 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

they came upon Gamut; ludicrously attired 
as an Indian warrior. Heyward, disguised 
as a medicine-man, entered the camp with 
Gamut. He had been in the encampment 
but a short while when an old chief requested 
him to drive the evil spirit from the wife of 
one of his young men. As Heyward was 
preparing for the unwelcome task, an Indian 
was brought into the camp, and all thought 
of the woman vanished at the news that the 
prisoner was Uncas, deadly foe of the tribe. 

Soon, as the excitement over the captive 
subsided; the old chief remembered the sick 
womaU; and escorted Heyward to her cham- 
ber, in a cave of the neighboring moimtain. 
As Heyward, alone in the chamber, save for 
the dying woman, looked around him, he 
was startled by a great, shaggy bear which 
padded noiselessly in. Suddenly its head 
slipped ofif and, Heyward, astounded, was 
gazing at Hawkeye, who, thus attired, had 
made his way into the Indian village. 

As the scout rearranged his disguise, Hey- 
ward, hearing a sUght noise m another 
chamber, investigated, and found Alice there. 
With Hawkeye's assistance he managed to 
bring the girl from the chamber and stole 
out of the village. Hawkeye, still in the 



THE LAST OF THE MOHICANS 121 

character of a bear, fearlessly entered the 
cabin where Uncas was imprisoned, and 
succeeded in liberating him. Together they 
made their way into the forest. 

Magua, although keeping Alice with his 
own tribe, had intrusted the care of Cora to 
a friendly tribe of Delawares. Immediately 
after the escape of Alice he hurried to the 
encampment of the Delawares to claim Cora. 
By Indian law, the girl was his captive, and 
he bore her away, despite the intervention of 
XJncas, a hereditary chief of the tribe. 

As soon as he had vanished in the forest, 
the tribe, under the leadership of Uncas, 
prepared to follow him and war against his 
people. In their hideous war panoply they 
hurried on Magua 's trail. 

A bloody battle was fought between the 
two Indian tribes, and the forces of Le 
Renard Subtil crushingly defeated. Seeing 
that the day was lost, the wily savage seized 
Cora in his arms and hurried toward the 
mountains, Uncas, Heyward, and Hawkeye 
in hot pursuit. 

Cora, knowing the fate that lay before her, 
suddenly refused to move from the ledge on 
which she stood. 

"Woman!" cried Magua, raising his knife, 



122 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

'^ choose — ^the wigwam or the knife of Le 
Subtil?" 

As he spoke, Uncas thudded down beside 
him, having jumped from a fearful height to 
the ledge. Magna, a ferocious smile on 
his dusky face, plunged his knife into the 
body of his prostrate enemy. While Magna 
gloated over the dying Uncas one of his 
companions sheathed his knife in Cora's 
bosom. 

With a wild cry of triumph, Magna, after 
leaping a wide fissure, made for the summit 
of the mountain. A single bound would 
carry him to the brink of the precipice and 
assure his safety. 

He shouted, defiantly: "The palefaces are 
dogs! The Delawares, women! Magna 
leaves them on the rocks for the crows!" 

He turned and leaped for the height, but 
fell short, and only saved himself by grasping 
a bush that grew from the side of the moun- 
tain. As he slowly pulled himself up, Hawk- 
eye's rifle cracked from below. Magna, 
shaking his hand in defiance of his enemy, 
shot downward to destruction. 



.. • 




W. CLAKK EDSSELL 



RUSSELL 

nnHE author of '' The Wreck of the *Grosvenor''' 
^ was bom in New York, February 24, 1844; 
he was the son of Henry Russelly avihor of the popu- 
lar song, *^ Cheer, Boys, Cheer.^' He was educated 
at the famous Winchester in England, and at Bou- 
logne in France. At thirteen he shipped on a Brit- 
ish merchantman and served for eight years, which 
gave him first-hand informaiion for the stories which 
have for so long been a delight to all who love a tale 
of the sea. His first book was ''John Holdsworth, 
Chief Maie'\' it was followed by a rapid and 
lengthy succession of tales of the sea in a dear and 
picturesque style with abundant dramatic skill. 
This first book won him a devoted audience, in- 
creased the next year by the story which readers will 
most readily assodale with his name, ''The Wreck 
of the 'Grosvenor^^^; in addition to being a good 
story, it pleads for better treatment of English 
sailors, espedaUy in matters of food. The proper 
care of the sailorman has always been one of the 
things needing attention. In addition to being a 
prolific writer of bocks, he was also a newspaper 



124 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

man, writing ^^ leaders" or editorial articles for ''The 
London Daily Telegraph." These were of enough 
importance to he gathered together in *'Round 
the GaUey Fire" and other volumes. He died in 
1911. 



THE WRECK OF THE 
^^GROSVENOR" 

By W. CLARK RUSSELL 

Condensation by 
JAMES B. CONNOLLY 

\X7'E were Doiind out of London with a 
^ ^ general cargo. The wind dying out, 
we had to come to anchor in the Downs, 
The crew had been grumbling about the 
grub, and were now grumbling yet more. I 
was second officer, and to me came the cook, 
saying, "Mr, Royle, would you mind tasting 
this?" and handed me a bit of a ship's bis- 
cuit. "Sugar, molasses, tea, and pork — ^if 
they call 'em that — ^they're all the same 
rotten mess, sir." 

The biscuit was bad, and though it was not 
my place to do so, I took it to Captain 
Coxon, but got nothing from him except 
curses and the cold advice to mind my own 
affairs. Mr. Duckling, the first officer, added 



126 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

a few obsequious remarks on his own account. 
The result was that the crew, getting no re- 
dress, refused to make sail on the ship and 
were put ashore. Next morning a crimp 
came down from London with a fresh crew. 

A fair wind sprang up, the ship was got 
under way, but we were not clear of the 
Channel when the new crew were also com- 
plaining of the grub. Hot words were 
passed between them and the captain, so hot 
that the captain had to take notice. He 
finally promised to put into some handy 
port, in Spain or elsewhere along the route, 
and lay in a fresh supply of ship's stores. 

"What injustice in the meanness of owners 
and captains !'* I thought. Here were good 
sailors and ordinarily harmless men who 
might be made into criminals, and all to the 
end that our banking balances might be 
kept large and our national power supreme. 
Without the British sailor there would be no 
British Empire, and what treatment is 
meted out to him ! He submits to hardships 
and danger, and receives low wages, poor 
food, and mean Uving-quarters; even should 
he be granted a hearing for a grievance, nine- 
teen out of twenty persons appointed to 
investigate the trouble are qualified neither 



THE WRECK OF THE "GROSVENOR" 127 

by experience nor by sympathy to render a 
just verdict. 

The GrosvenoT, of which I was second 
officer, was a fast-sailing, full-rigged little 
ship of five hundred tons. The captain, 
under owner's orders to make what time he 
could to Valparaiso, was out to drive her. 
We were rushing along under a press of 
canvas when we ran over a small craft of 
some kind. I got a glimpse, in the dark, of 
a mast and a sail before they vanished imder 
us. 

No word came to bring her to. I asked 
Captain Coxon, who was on deck, if he was 
not going to try to save the possible survivors. 

"Save be hanged! Why didn't they keep 
out of our way?" 

I knew what I wanted to say; but it is in 
the power of a ship's captain to injure, even 
to ruin, the future of an officer under him. 
I held my tongue. 

"We ran into a three days' gale. We had 
a terrible time, but managed to live through 
it. As it was moderating we sighted a 
wreck, a most mournful and piteous sight. 
It was in my watch, and I ordered the ship 
luffed to have a better look at her. What I 
saw was an arm projecting through her 



128 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

deck-house window. I at once called the 
captain and asked for instructions. 

"Keep her away!" was his order. 

I called him a murderer and appealed to 
the men. They cried to save the lives on 
the wreck. The captain then allowed me to 
take a boat's crew and see what I could do. 

After a hard struggle our boat made the 
wreck. She was an English ship. At no 
little peril I ran along the deck to her house, 
where I found a yoimg girl and her old father. 
Another man was also there alive, but in- 
sane. Seeing a pannikin of fresh water, this 
man grabbed it, drained it, and dropped 
dead. 

When we were back aboard the Grosvenor 
I, for my part in the rescue, was put in irons. 

This wreck incident, added to further 
needless abuse of the men and the further 
failure of the captain to live up to his promise 
of putting in for better food, inflamed the 
crew beyond endurance. They watched their 
chance, rushed the poop in the night, and 
killed the captain. They then killed Mr. 
Duckling. They might have killed me, too, 
notwithstanding that I had shown sympathy 
to them, but somebody had to navigate the 
ship to within fifty miles of the Florida coast, 



THE WRECK OF THE "GROSVENOR" 129 

which was where they intended to abandon 
her and row ashore. 

Having the safety of the young girl and 
her old father as well as my own life to think 
of, I agreed to act as navigator. 

I was having my supper in the cabin under 
the new regime when I felt a touch on my 
arm. I looked up. It was Miss Robertson, 
the rescued girl. Before I could prevent her, 
she took my hand and kissed it. She told 
me then of the wrecked ship. Her father, a 
wealthy Liverpool merchant, was the owner 
of the ship, which had been bound home from 
Cape Town. After the storm, the officers and 
crew, fearing the ship would sink under 
them, had taken to the boats. She and her 
father had spent a terrible three days on the 
wreck, and now her father, already a nervous 
wreck, was shaken anew by the frightful 
threats of the mutineers here. She trusted 
to me for the safety of her father and herself. 

Her trust inspired me with new energy. 
To save them I was now ready to play any 
game whatever with Stevens, who was the ■ 
leader of the mutineers. Our boatswain, 
who had not wished to join them, but to save 
his life had done so, was on my side. It was 
he who told me that Stevens was intending 



1 



130 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

to scuttle the ship before they took to the 
boatS; and so leave me and the passengers to 
our fate. 

We planned to frustrate him. By this 
time we had taken Miss Robertson into our 
confidence. One night the boatswam ap- 
parently fell overboard and was drowned; 
but he had not fallen overboard — ^it was a 
box of tenpenny nails, which I had thrown 
over the side. This was the night before 
that day when Stevens went below and bored 
the auger holes which were to do for the ship; 
but as fast as Stevens bored a hole the 
boatswam, who had been hidmg below for 
that very thing, followed and plugged it up. 

Thinking he had scuttled the ship, Stevens 
came on deck and led the crew to the boats, 
grinning evilly at Miss Robertson and myself 
as he did so. They had not rowed far from 
the ship when the boatswain showed himself 
on deck. Stevens saw him. ^'WeVe been 
tricked !'* he cried, and headed back for the 
ship. The wind was rising at the time, but 
there was not enough way yet on the ship to 
outrun the boats. They tried to board us 
by the main chains. As they did, the boat- 
swain with a handspike and I with a revolver 
killed or hurled back into the sea all but one 



r 



THE WRECK OF THE "GROSVENOR" 131 

of them. That one was not so bad as the 
others, and we saved him to help work on the 
ship. Throughout the fight Miss Robertson, 
who had been gaining strength with every 
hour, held the wheel so that the ship should 
not be caught aback and the spars come down 
on us. 

We had now to work the ship to the nearest 
land; but the increasing wind made it 
dangerous, with our meager crew, to keep 
sail on her. We worked like dogs to reduce 
sail, but the wind became too much for us. 
It came on us like a solid wall; the seas 
rolled to our tops. Spars cracked and hung 
down over our decks. Only after the most 
exhausting toil did we manage to clear away 
the most dangerous of the broken spars. In 
the height of it poor Mr. Robertson died. I 
read the eleventh chapter of St. John over 
his body. 

In time the wind abated; but the sea, con- 
tinuing to tumble and roar, strained our ship 
so that she sprang a leak. There were not 
enough of us to keep her pumped out. We 
pumped tUl our arms fell to our sides, but of 
no avail. When the water was to our main 
chains we took to the boats; and it was then, 
when we beheved we were doomed to die, 



132 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

that Mary Robertson and I confessed our 
love for each other^ she the daughter of a 
wealthy man and I a poor, pennUess saUor. 

The sun was setting; the sky, far to the 
north and south, a golden color; the sea was 
a purple glare, the heavens a tender green 
and blue; and while we were gazing on all 
this glory the ship went down. 

That night, before the rough seas could 
swallow us, a steamer picked us up and took 
us home. 




Sm GILBERT PARKEB 



PARKER 

/GILBERT PARKER, British novelist, was 
^^ bom at Camden East, Addington, Ontario, on 
the 23d of November, 1862. He was educated at 
Ottawa and at Trinity University, Toronto. At 
one time he lived in Australia, and while there was 
editor of ' ' The Sydney Herald. " In the early ^nine- 
ties he began to make a repuiaiion as a writer of 
romantic fiction. 

He took for the subject of some of the most irrir 
portant of his stories the history and life of the 
French Canadians. His reputation rests largely 
on the fine descriptive and dramatic quality of these 
Canadian stories. 

^'Pierre and His PeopW^ was followed by *^The 
Trail of the Sword,^^ ''When Valmond Came to 
Pontiac,'^ ''An Adventurer of the North,^^ and 
^' The Seais of the Mighty ^^ {dramatized in 1897). 

The scene of "The Battle of the Strong^^ is laid 
in the Channel Islands. Parker's chief later 
hooks are " The Right of Way,'' published in 1901, 
"Donovan Pasha," " The Ladder of Swords, " and 
others. "The Right of Way" is the story of a 



134 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED- 

man who tried to^^come bcuJc'^ after making a faU- 
tare of his life. 

Parker' 8 Canadian connections and his experi- 
ences in AiA^ralia and elsewhere made him a strong 
imperialist in politics. He was elected to Parliar 
ment in 1900 (re-elected 1906-10) as Conservative 
member from Gravesend. 

In 190S Parker was knighted^ and he strengthr 
ened his position in the party by his energetic work 
on behalf of the tariff reform. He came to rank^ hy 
1910, as one of the foremost men of the Unionist 
party. 



THE RIGHT OF WAY 

By SIR GILBERT PARKER 

Condensation by 
HELEN B. DOLE 

" K[OT guilty, your Honor!" Such was the 
^ " unexpected verdict in Jo Portugais's 
murder trial at Montreal. This result was 
due to the remarkable pleading of Charley 
Steele, populariy called "Beauty Steele," a 
brilliant, handsome young lawyer addicted 
to strong drink. His success in this case 
also won for him the hand of the beautiful 
Kathleen Wantage, whom he admired, al- 
though he did not love her, any more than 
she loved him. 

After the trial Jo tried to thank Charley. 
"Get out of my sight," he replied; "you are 
as guilty as hell!" 

Five years later found him still more brill- 
iant and more a slave to the bottle. He 
had corrupted Kathleen's brother Billy, and 
demoralized the popular preacher, the Rev. 



136 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

John Brown. Billy forged Charley's name 
and squandered twenty-five thousand dollars 
of trust money, but Charley resolved to save 
him from ruin. He went that night to the 
"C6te Dorion" tavern, where he drank 
heavily, quarreled recklessly with some 
rough river^irivers, and wa^ kicked senseless 
and flung into the river. 

Just at that moment Jo Portugais, on a 
raft opposite the tavern, heard the scuffle and 
the splash, jimiped into the water, and res- 
cued the insensible man, whom he recognized 
as his former deliverer. Taking him to his 
hut on Vadrome Moimtain, near Chaudidre 
Parish, he nursed him seven months till he 
was restored to health, but with his memory 
completely gone. After the curb's brother, 
M. Loisel, a skilled surgeon, operated on him 
his memory returned. He did not know 
Jo, but his eye chanced to fall on a newspaper 
which told of his own death, of the marriage 
of his wife to a former admirer, and accused 
him of having embezzled the trust money. 

What was he to do? He could not go 
back even to clear himself. He decided to 
remain unknown, as Charles Mallard, in 
ChaudiSre. The village postmistress, Rosa- 
lie Evantiurel, a charming girl of fine family 



THE RIGHT OF WAY 137 

and convent education, made his acquaint- 
ance by bringing up to him a parcel-post 
package from the surgeon. Charley became 
apprentice to the elderly, crotchety tailor, 
Louis Trudel, and went to live with him. 
Louis was suspicious of him because he was 
an infidel, and determined to show him a sign 
from heaven so as to convert him. He stole 
from the church door the little iron cross 
blessed by the Pope, and late one night, after 
Charley had gone to bed, heated it red-hot, 
and, rushing upstairs, dropped it on Charley's 
bare chest. Rosalie from the post-office 
opposite noticed a light under the tailor's 
door at that unusual hour and, suspecting 
something wrong, saw through the shutters 
what the man was doing. She hastened 
through the kitchen and upstairs, but too 
late to stay the tailor's hand. He turned 
and fell headlong and died soon after, calling 
Charley "a black infidel from hell." 

Rosalie took the cross to the post-office 
and afterward restored it to the church 
door. Chaudi^re believed that the tailor's 
death was due to the infidel and was ready 
to mob him, but the cur6 took his part and 
urged the people to pray that he might be 
brought into the fold. 



138 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 



Charli^ lived on in the tailor's house and 
continued his business, ^vingmost of his earn- 
ings to the poor and the sick, and fitting the 
demon drink which fiequentiy assafled hun. 

It was St. Jean Baptiste's I>Eky. Chaudi&^e 
was filled with festivity. As the militia 
came noisily into the village Charley rescued 
a man and his frightened horse from death. 
The man proved to be John Brown, now 
become a quack doctor and advertising his 
nostrums by sin^g comic songs. Charley, 
hiding behind some trees, heard him telling 
the story of his old friend '^ Champagne 
Charley." All day he had been fighting a 
fierce battle with a ra^ng thirst and ques- 
tioning himself about Rosalie. Could he 
marry while his wife was stiU Uving? Should 
he tell her all and let the law separate him 
from Kathleen? But Rosalie was a Catholic 
and the chm-ch opposed divorce. 

Just then a bottle of whisky fell from the 
pocket of a drunken habitant at his very 
feet. With an uncontrollable impulse he 
seized it and drained it. Jo Portugais fol- 
lowed him as he staggered home, and Charley 
in his delirium recognized him as the mur- 
derer he had pleaded for. He took Jo by 
the throat, then fell to the floor. For five 



THE RIGHT OF WAY 139 

days Jo struggled to save his life, and then 
carried him back to Vadrome Mountain. 
Rosalie came to warn him that he was sus- 
pected of stealing the gold vessels from the 
cathedral in Quebec and trying to blow up 
Government House, She had hardly fin- 
ished speaking when the cur^, the seigneur, 
and the Abb6 Rossignol entered with two 
constables. The abb^ charged Charley with 
the theft, which he stoutly denied. Jo 
called the abh6 aside and confessed his crime 
in order to save his friend, promising to give 
himself up at the end of a year. Meantime 
Charley took a vial of laudanum from his 
pocket, but as he was about to uncork it 
EosaUe sprang from behind a curtain, crying, 
"If you go, I go also." Footsteps were 
heard and he promised not to take the poison. 
The abb6 came to announce that he believed 
Charley's denial. His great temptation still 
remained, but he found help in Rosalie's eyes. 
It was the first time he had yielded to a power 
outside himself. 

The eur^ was planning to give the Passion 
Play at the Indian Reservation of Four 
Mountains at Easter, and asked Charley to 
translate the German text and to make some 
drawings for the costumes. He did so. 




140 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

About this time Rosalie took her crippled 
father to the hospital at Montreal and was 
gone some months, which were months of 
misery for Charley. What could he do? 
He felt that it had been dastardly of him to 
win her love, when he could give her only 
the empty hand, the hopeless hour, the secret 
sorrow in return. He fought his old enemy 
with desperate resolve. 

The week before Easter he went to Mon- 
treal with Jo's dogs and sled. In the dead 
of night he entered the white house on the 
hiU where Kathleen was Uving, made his way 
to a secret cupboard, and removed two 
packets; one contained his mother's pearls 
worth ten thousand dollars, and the other a 
thousand dollars in notes. As he tmned, 
after restoring the panel, Kathleen stood 
before him in her nightgown. She was 
asleep. Charley followed her as she walked 
out of the house, across the lawn toward the 
river where the gate was open. Her life was 
in his hands. For a moment he hesitated, 
then noiselessly stole between her and the 
gate, closed and locked it. Her husband, 
not fifty feet away, called to him. 

"Hush ! She's asleep," Charley whispered, 
and disappeared, unrecognized. 



THE RIGHT OF WAY 141 

Rosalie's father died soon after this and 
she was ill for weeks. The Passion Play 
brought unwelcome crowds to Chaudi^re; 
the last three days strangers were pro- 
hibited. At the final performance Rosalie 
chose to take the part of Marie Magdalen. 
(It was an act of expiation. After the play 
ended she received absolution.) Far away 
under the trees sat a man in misery im- 
measurable. It was Charley. That night 
he wrote for a long time; then put the paper 
with the pearls and the money in the safe. 
That same night John Brown lay drunk in 
the church. He Ughted a match and threw 
it on a surplice. Soon cries of "Fire" were 
heard. Charley and Jo saved the sacred 
treasures. Rosalie went back for the little 
cross and Charley dashed in and rescued her. 

By his eloquence the people were induced 
to give one-fortieth of their possessions for a 
new edifice. The money collected was placed 
in his charge and locked in his safe under the 
parish seal. While he and Jo were keeping 
guard over it, Billy Wantage, John Brown, 
and three other rogues, having learned where 
the money was, entered the tailor's house to 
steal it. Billy shot Charley, Jo killed John 
Brown, two of the other men fired at Jo and 



142 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

killed him. The seal was found intact. 
Rosalie helped bind up Charley's wound and 
the cur6 was preparing to give him the 
sacrament. Suddenly the bandage slipped — 
or did he purposely let it slip? — and he died 
faithful in his love for Rosalie. She livedo 
rejoicing in her memory of him and in her 
lifelong service for the poor and suffering of 
the parish. 

Printed by permission of, and arrangement with. Harper 
& Bros., authorized publishers. 




WINSTON CHURCHILL 



CHURCHILL 

ri/'INSTON CHURCHILL has been almost as 
^^ versatile as his English namesake. It is a 
far cry from the story of romantic adventure and the 
historical novel to the tale of reforming tendencies, 
political, social, and religious. He has an acute 
knowledge of what will interest the great public, and 
writes a story about it in such a way that he becomes 
a phenomenal best seller. He has learned the pro- 
fession of writing novels by novel-writing, and he 
learned to portray people by careful study of those he 
wanted to use. He has acquired a power of charac- 
terization that is almost photographic. He uses this 
power to present people of great appeal to a large 
body of Americans, for they are the type known to 
many. All this shows the seriousness of the man. 
That his political novels, for instance, are real 
stories of politics is shown by the fact that a former 
President of the United States and two former gov- 
ernors of Massachusetts have consented to retell 
them in shortened form for the readers of ''The 
Boston Post.^^ 

Winston Churchill has written his best book, so 
far, in the opinion of most readers, in ^^Coniston^'; 



144 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

it portrays a vital phase of American political life; 
it has had a potent influence in improving the conr 
duct of our public affairs. In Jethro Bass he 
has created his greatest character^ as yet — one that 
will probably take permanent rank in American 
literature. 




CONISTON 

By WINSTON CHURCHILL 

Condeofiation by 
HON. SAMUEL W. McCALL 

/"^ONISTON was a small village upon a 
^-^ shelf on a mountain-side commanding 
one of the gorgeous views characteristic of a 
little commonwealth which has many a 
larger sister state, but none worthier. 

The politics of the place was under the 
control of the Church party, which something 
more than three-quarters of a century ago 
held sway over many of the towns of New 
England. But the career of "Old Hickory" 
was giving a new impulse to democracy and 
portended little good to any ruUng class, 
whatever its virtues. All that was needed 
was a leader, and one was found in a young 
man named Jethro Bass, who was the son of 
a well-to-do tanner. Jethro inherited from 
his father a snug little fortune, but his edu- 
cation had been almost wholly neglected. 



146 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 



He skilfully made use of the rising discon- 
tent by appeals to ambition and personal 
interest. It became clear that the ruling 
party was to be challenged at the coming 
town meeting, and so presumptuous a thing 
stirred society to its depths. 

The spiritual leader of the Church party 
was the clergyman. His lovely daughter, 
Cynthia, filled a large place in the eyes of 
Jethro, and she was drawn to him by the 
unmistakable signs of power apparent under 
his awkward exterior. They used sometimes 
to meet by chance, and, imlike as they were 
in point of cultivation, they were really very 
much in love with each other, a circumstance 
that had rather to be inferred because Jethro 
was little likely to exercise the initiative and 
say anything about it. Once when in Boston 
he bought a beautiful locket and had en- 
graved upon it, ''Cynthy from Jethro,'' but 
he never mustered up the courage to present 
it. When the political tempest was rising 
Cynthia, who sympathized strongly with her 
father's party, decided to go to Jethro and 
plead with him to stop the fight. Before he 
knew her purpose he broke his silence and 
declared his love. Perhaps if he had been 
given a chance for reflection and had not 



W been so u^: 

B have gran 



been so upset by his own confession he would 
have granted her request, but that did not 
seem possible at the moment. Cynthia took 
his refusal as a decree of separation, and she 
left him, never to see him again, and he set 
out upon the career which ended in his 
becoming the uncrowned king of his state. 

The town -meeting fight went on and 
Jethro was chosen first selectman, the only 
office he ever held and in which he continued 
for thirty-six years. Cynthia went to Bos- 
ton, where she became teacher in a high 
school, and in the course of time married 
William Wetherill, the clerk who had sold 
Jethro the locket. She first learned about 
the locket from her husband and confessed 
to him her love for Jethro. After a few 
years she died, leaving a little girl who bore 
her name. Wetherill moved to Coniston, 
taking young Cynthia with him, and went to 
keeping the village store. 

In the years that had gone by Jethro had 
found Coniston too small and was engaged in 
carrying on the government of the state. 
He had his lieutenants in every county and 
possessed such an organization that he was 
able to select most of the men who held the 
important offices and to control their actions 



148 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

afterward. In brief, he became the "boss'' 
of the state and the people who desired 
legislation or offices found it necessary to 
visit him. Avarice did not seem to be the 
motive that controlled him. Railroads were 
being built, manufacturing developed, and 
he took pride in making himself indispen- 
sable in what was going on. When little 
Cynthia appeared at Coniston he at once 
loved her as he would have loved his own 
daughter. Her father was imable to meet 
his obligations at the bank. Jethro quietly 
bought the mortgage and had it assigned 
to himself. Cjmthia used to call him Un- 
de Jethro and loved him as she did her 
father. 

After a time the railroad corporations de- 
cided to consolidate. Jethro, whether he 
feared that they would become too large for 
the state or for him, did not approve of 
consolidation. Thereupon they decided to 
overthrow him. The fight began over his 
home post-office. He was known to favor 
an old soldier named Eph Frescott who had 
been badly wounded in the Wilderness and 
whom he had helped in his uphill fight as he 
had helped many another person. The rail- 
road party decided to defeat Jethro's candi- 



date in order to weaken his prestige in the 
state, and it had the support of many men 
who had formerly done his bidding and of 
the "Congressman from the district," the 
usual autocrat in the distribution of offices of 
that class. 

Jethro went to Washington and contrived 
to have an apparently chance meeting be- 
tween President Grant and Eph. Grant 
was attracted by Eph's simplicity. They 
talked over the battles they had fought 
together with a modesty which furnished 
another instance that the noisiest patriots 
are not always the greatest. Grant ap- 
pointed Eph. When the news of the victory 
reached home Jethro's prestige was much 
increased. 

He placed Cynthia in a finishing school in 
Boston. Being a young woman of high 
spirit, she was not happy there. The fact 
that she came from a remote country place 
and of an unknown family very likely had 
something to do with the treatment she re- 
ceived in those primitive days before finishing 
schools had been made wholly safe for de- 
mocracy. One day a paper controlled by 
Isaac Worthington, the head of the corpora- 
tion party, made a savage attack upon 



150 ONE HUNDRED BEST N0VEI5 CONDENSED 

Jethro as a lobbyist and a "boss/' The 
paper found its way into Cynthia's hands and 
gave her the greatest distress. She went to 
Jethro and asked him if the story was true. 
He said, "They hain't put it just as they'd 
ought to be, perhaps, but that's the way I 
done it in the main." His manly confession 
caused her to love him even more than before. 
She withdrew from the finishing school and 
went to teach in Brampton, the town in which 
Worthington lived. Jethro, shaken by the 
effect on Cynthia, determined to withdraw 
from politics. 

The state was in a ferment. Would 
the corporations be able to down Jethro? 
For the first time in nearly forty years 
Jethro did not appear at the Coniston town 
meeting. The enemy won by default. The 
news heartened the corporations everywhere. 
Worthington had always been an enemy of 
Jethro's, although he had accepted his help 
more than once, and, while indulging in very 
virtuous speeches, had practised essentially 
the same methods. His son. Bob, was 
madly in love with Cynthia, but she sub- 
ordinated her own love for Bob completely 
to her fidelity to Jethro. Bob proposed to 
her and she refused. He declared that he 



would leave his father and earn his own 
living and then claim her on account of what 
he had himself done. He wrote his father, 
teUing him his purpose. When the latter 
received the letter he flew into a rage. 
Learning that Cynthia was a teacher in his 
own town, he called the committee together, 
the majority of whom he controlled, and had 
them pass a vote ignominiously dismissing 
her from the school. This action aroused 
Jethro and he straightway took up the battle 
again against the corporation magnate re- 
sponsible for the outrage. He swooped down 
upon the Capitol like an eagle. His genius 
for poUtical generalship flashed out with its 
old-time brightness. Messages went to the 
vaUey towns and to the north country. The 
"throne room " was open again, and, although 
the battle had been apparently lost through 
Jethro's withdrawal, it became evident that 
the corporations were destined to defeat. 
Finally Worthington was willing to surren- 
der and asked Jethro's terms. Jethro said, 
"Consent to the marriage of Cynthia and 
Bob." Worthington complied in some high- 
flown letters and the marriage took place. 
Jethro withdrew from the fight and from 
politics and passed his old age near Cynthia, 



162 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

blessed by her love and that of her chil- 
dren. (With apologies to Mr. Winston 
ChurchiU.') 

Ck>ndeiuied from CanisUm, by Winston Churchill, copy- 
right, 1906, by the Macmillan Company. Used by permission 
of author and publisher. 




THOMAS HARDY 



HARDY 

nnHOMAS HARDY has been reviled by critics 
-* and public as a pessimist, determined to look 
upon the dark side of life. Careful reading reveals 
him dispassionately true to the realities of life. He 
depicts with maichless skill the struggle of human 
beings against fate — the fate of an inner weakness or 
a cruel and inescapable circumstance. 

He paints these struggles with a background of 
nature which is beautiful or sinister , gentle or ugly, 
but is always inevitable and organic. Yet his own 
^^ solitary y brooding y strongly colored mind^^ domi- 
nates men and landscape. 

This is especially true in his most famous novel, 
" Tess.^' It is at once the most tragically pitiful of 
his books and, if deeply read, the most hopeful, for 
the sorrows of Tess are due to stupidities in our 
civilization which may be done away with. 

*'Jude the Obscure^^ is afar more terrible and de- 
pressing book, for in its tragedy man is more at the 
mercy of chance and the inherent weakness of hu- 
man nature. 

The rustics of Hardy, comparable only to Shake- 
speare^ s, seem to grow out of the very soil of that half- 



154 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

imaginary Wessex which he has made fammis. 
Their humor and quaint wisdom constitute a kind 
of Greek chorus in the Wessex books. 

Although Hardy sees ^^all that is irresponsible 
for good and evil in a woman* s character, all that is 
untrustworthy in her brain and willf all that is al- 
luring in her variability,** he has yet ventured to 
marry twice, first in 1874 ^^ again in 1914. 

He lives in his own Wessex, writing occasional 
poems of flashing insight. 



FAR FROM THE MADDING 
CROWD 

By THOMAS HARDY 

Condensation by 
ALFRED S. CLARK 



DEFORE Bathsheba Everdene came to 
■^^ Weatherbiiry as mistress of the maDor- 
house time seemed to have forgotten the 
village. The smock-clad shepherds in the 
thatch-roofed cottages might have been, as 
far as appearances went, their own ancestors 
of four centuries before. Little happenings 
seemed tremendous. The pulling down of a 
hovel was a stirring event; the transformation 
of a well into a pump shook Weatherbury 
like a revolution. 

The stir of the great world without, its 
romance and passion and tragedy — these 
came to Weatherbury — with Bathsheba. 
There was a new arrival to be discussed, a 
great-boned, ruddy-faeed shepherd, Gabriel 



166 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

Oak; who beat out a fire that menaced the 
wheat-ricks aad who remained to work for 
Bathsheba. Fanny Robin, a servant, disap- 
peared, lured by a soldier's red coat. These 
were things to agitate the heads of the 
rustics who gathered at nightfall in the old 
malt-house to drink and to moralize. 

Their heads would have wagged even more 
had they known that Gabriel Oak, only a 
few weeks before, had been his own master, 
and had vainly urged Bathsheba, then a 
penniless maiden, to marry him. Things 
that had seemed commonplace enough had 
abruptly reversed their places in the world. 
A man had died in Weatherbury; a dog had 
driven to death a flock of sheep. These 
were but the inevitable tragedies of life, and 
yet the one had suddenly made Bathsheba 
an heiress; the other had driven Gabriel out 
upon the highways to seek work. Chance or 
fate had kindled a fire, Gabriel had saved the 
wheat, and the two lives that had been fiimg 
so far apart were brought near again. 

The pain of seeing another win her whom 
he loved would be intense, but Gabriel pre- 
ferred even this to life where he could not 
see her. He knew that this must happen. 
Bathsheba was yoimg, beautiful, wealthy, 



FAR FROM THE MADDING CROWD 157 

but rarer than these was her high spirit. 
"She was the stuff of which great men's 
mothers are made. She was indispensable to 
high generation, hated at tea parties, feared 
in shops, and loved at crises." This spirit, 
however, was to flame more brightly later, 
after her impetuosity had plunged her into 
the crises that were to prove her worth. 

In all Weatherbury, one man alone was 
heedless to her charm. This was WiUiam 
Boldwood, "the nearest approach to aris- 
tocracy that this remoter quarter of the 
parish could boast of." She resented being 
ignored and, in a moment of thoughtlessness, 
sent him a valentine that fanned into flame 
passions that Boldwood had hidden from the 
world. 

At the shearing supper held in the great 
barn Gabriel could see that Boldwood's suit 
was prospering. He was madly in love, she 
no longer discouraged him. Neither Bath- 
sheba nor Boldwood was thinking then of a 
song she had sung earlier that evening, 
when "the shearers reclined against one an- 
other as at suppers in the early ages of the 
world." Yet afterward how often were they 
to recall with a shudder the words that 
Bathsheba had so Ughtly sung: 



} 



158 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

For his bride a soldier sought her, 
And a winning tongue 1^ he: 

On the bankis of Allan .Water 
None was gay as she. 

That very night the soldier came into her 
life^ came as she walked about the farm to see 
that all was secure. Her skirt was caught as 
she trod fearfuUy through a growth of high 
firs; she heard the mutter of a man's voice. 
A dark-lantern revealed a spur entangled in 
her skirt, a young and slender man clad in 
brilliant brass and scarlet. It flashed like a 
gleam of romance in gray days, that scarlet 
coat that was afterward to be remembered 
a^ so sinister a portent. 

The man was Sergeant Troy, a light- 
hearted scoundrel whose ready flattery 
sounded sweeter in Bathsheba's ears than the 
stammering longing of Gabriel or Boldwood. 
He courted her romantically, wooing her 
with his sword. She stood, a few days 
later, in a hollow of ferns and about her 
flashed his whirling, edged weapon, slashing 
so close to her that she could hear its sharp 
hiss as it carved out in the air her lissome 
figure. And when he turned to leave her 
he stooped swiftly and kissed her on the lips. 

Gabriel tried to warn Bathsheba, but she 



FAR FROM THE MADDING CROWD 159 

scorned his reproaches. So he bore silently 
with his grief and he did not tell her that 
Troy had beguiled little Fanny Robin away 
from Weatherbury. Boldwood, whose heart 
had never before beat faster at a woman's 
approach, could not so control his anger. 
He shouted maledictions upon the man who 
had robbed Him of all that had made Ufe 
joyous. His madness precipitated that which 
he most dreaded, Bathsheba's marriage to 
Troy. 

The hasty marriage led swiftly to sorrow, 
inevitably to tragedy. Troy celebrated the 
wedding by a revel in the bam where he and 
all the jovial rustics were soon hopelessly 
befuddled. Gabriel dared not drink with 
them. The creeping things of the night and 
the huddled sheep had warned him of a 
nearing storm, and in the fields the high ricks 
of wheat and barley lay uncovered. 

The moon vanished and the wind sub- 
sided; on far horizons baleful fires fluttered. 
The mutter of distant thunder rolled into a 
sharp rattle. The flashes grew bright as he 
worked to protect the grain. Then Bath- 
sheba was with him, and their laboring forma 
were outlined in black by the green snakes of 
fire that darted venomously earthward. As 



160 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

she trembled with fright, Gabriel felt her 
warm arm tremble m his great, sheltering 
hand. She was another man's wife; she did 
not love him; but there was solace in the 
strange ways of fate that had brought her 
nearer to him than when her heart was free. 

Tragedy came when Fanny Bobin crept 
home to die. Her body, with that of her 
child, was brought back to the house where 
she had worked. Standing by the coffin, 
Bathsheba learned that Troy had never 
loved her as he had this girl who had borne 
death and shame for him. He fled from 
Weatherbury and word was brought to 
Bathsheba that he had been swept out to sea 
and drowned. 

The seasons rolled on and sorrow gave to 
Bathsheba's face a seriousness that added to 
her charm. Boldwood dreamed again and 
he was made happy by a promise, although 
six years must pass before its fulfilment. 

To celebrate his joy, he planned a Christ- 
mas Eve party, more than a year after Troy 
had disappeared. And it was on this night 
that Troy chose to reappear, striding like a 
specter among the merrymakers. As he ad- 
vanced upon her, Bathsheba stood like a 
stricken thing, half convinced that delusion 



FAR FROM THE MADDING CROWD 161 

had enthralled her. But there was nothing 
ghostly in the rough command that he 
shouted at her nor in the brutal grip that he 
toolc upon her arm. Then only did she stir, 
but she could not speak. A strangled scream 
was heard, then a deafening roar. Some 
eyes were upon Troy, pitching forward and 
never to rise again; others upon Boldwood, 
standing with a smoking gun in his hands. 

Not until the next August, long after it 
was known that Boldwood was to be im- 
prisoned for life, was Bathsheba able to walk 
as far as the village street. Fate had been 
hard to her. Of three men who had loved 
her, one had been killed by another who 
would never stride in the daylight again. 
And now word had come to her that Gabriel 
—honest, sturdy Gabriel— whom she had 
found the one man in the world who did not 
fail her in her need, was leaving her. She 
sought him in his humble cottage and he 
confessed that he was going because people 
were coupling his name with hers. "Such a 
thing as that is too absurd — too soon — ^to 
think of, by far!" she cried. When he 
agreed with her that it was "too absurd," she 
insisted that she had not said that, but "too 
soon." Even" then minutes clicked away 



162 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

before Gabriel could realize that what he had 
80 long sought was to be his. 

Their Uves, m cahn and storm, had been 
so close that, after the wedding, the rustics 
marveled at his easy way of speakmg of 
"my wife." They agreed that he did not 
say the words as chillingly as might a man 
who had been married twenty years, but 
that that improvement would come later. 
Gabriel laughed aloud at that and Bath- 
sheba smiled, for Bathsheba did not now 
laugh so readily as had been her wont when 
first she came among the simple folk of 
changeless Weatherbury. 



• • - 




WILKIE COLLINS 



COLLINS 

TJyTILLIAM WILKIE COLLINS, the sm of a 
^^ landscape and portrait painter, was horn in 
London, January 8, 18Z4* 

He died September 23, 1889. After some private 
education at home he spent three years in Italy with 
his father. On his return he became a derk with a 
firm of tea merchants in London, bvi tea was not to 
his taste; he studied law at the famous Lincoln^ s 
Inn and was called to the bar in 1861. But he was 
still drifting; he was not attracted to the law, though 
he found his studies of great use to him in later 
days. 

The death of the elder Collins in 1847 put the son 
partly in the way of finding himself, for he pub- 
lished his father's life in two volumes the vsxt year. 
He had been turning over his experiences of three 
years' life in Italy, and in 1860 appeared his first 
novel, ^^Antonia, or the Fall of Rome.'' *^ Basil" 
was published in 1862, and ^^Hide and Seek" in 
186^. He had not attracted the attention of the 
public as yet. The great event of his life, however, 
cams in 1861, when he made the acqmirUarice of 
Charles Dickens. 



THE WOMAN IN WHITE 

By WILKIE COLLINS 

Condensation by 
ALICE FOX PITTS 

TT was a close and sultry night early in 
^ August, and I, Walter Hartright, master 
of drawing, aged twenty-eight, was walking 
from Hampstead to London. In one mo- 
ment every drop of blood in my body was 
brought to a stop by the touch of a hand laid 
gently on my shoulder. There, in the middle 
of the highroad, stood a woman dressed from 
head to foot in white garments. She asked 
me the way to London. I told hpr, and we 
parted. 

Ten minutes later a carriage passed me and 
a few yards beyond stopped near a policeman. 
A man put his head from the window and 
asked: "Have you seen a woman pass this 
way — a woman in white? She has escaped 
from my asylum." At a shake of the police- 
man^s head the carriage drove rapidly on. 



THE WOMAN IN WHITE 165 

The next day I was at Limmeridge House, 
Cumberland, in the service of Frederick 
Fairlie, Esquire. I was there to instruct his 
two young nieces in the art of painting. I 
found Marian Halcombe to be dark and ugly, 
but intelligent. Laura Fairlie, her half- 
sister, was light, pretty, and dependent. 
They were devoted to each other, and before 
my engagement was up I admired the one 
and loved the other. 

My feelings were the cause of my leav- 
ing Limmeridge House. Marian Halcombe 
brought to me a realization of my own heart. 
"You must leave," she said, "not because 
you are only a teacher of drawing, but 
because Laura Fairlie is engaged to be 
married." 

A few days before I left Cumberland, while 
walking alone in the evening, I was con- 
fronted by the same face which had first 
looked into mine on the London highroad by 
night. But I was startled less by its sudden 
reappearance than by my immediate recog- 
nition of an ominous likeness between this 
fugitive from the asylum and my fair pupil 
at Limmeridge House. Still greater was my 
consternation when the woman admitted 
having come to the neighborhood for the sole 



} 



166 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

purpose of thwarting the proposed marriage 
of Laura Fairlie. 

I left limmeridge House, and soon after 
€mbarked on an expedition to Central Amer- 
ica. The same year Laura Fairlie became 
the bride of Sir Percival Glyde, Bart., and 
with her sister went to live at Blackwater 
Park, her husband's coimtry estate. Coimt 
Fosco, an audacious and domineering Italian, 
and his wife were guests of the household. 
But all was not as harmonious as an English 
<50imtry party should be. Lady Glyde and 
her sister, as inseparable and confiding as 
€ver, felt a perceptible coolness rising be- 
tween them and the two gentlemen. Cool- 
ness turned to suspicion and soon to fear. 

Then it was that Lady Glyde met the 
Woman in White. The mysterious person 
stole noiselessly up to her in the twilight one 
evening and whispered: "If you knew your 
husband's secret, he would be afraid of you. 
He would not dare use you as he has used me. 
I ought to have saved you before it was too 
late." But before the secret was told there 
were footsteps in the distance and the 
woman moved stealthily away. 

Sir Percival learned of that brief interview, 
and was afraid of his wife. He demanded. 



THE WOMAN IN WHITE 167 

begged, threatened her to tell him all she 
knew. What had been a battle of wits be- 
tween the two sisters and the two men be- 
came a struggle of strategy, and the women 
lost the fight. Lady Glyde was decoyed into 
leaving Blackwater Park for Count Fosco's 
London home. Less than two weeks later 
a tombstone in Cumberland bore this in- 
scription, "Sacred to the memory of Laura, 
Lady Glyde." 

On my return from Central America the 
same year I heard of the death, and im- 
mediately visited the grave. As I ap- 
proached it, two women came toward me. 
One was Marian Halcombe; the other was 
veiled, but when she raised this covering 
from her face, there, looking at me, was 
Laura, Lady Glyde. She was pale, ner- 
vous, and depressed — more perfect than 
ever in her resemblance to the Woman in 
White. 

Marian Halcombe told me what she knew. 
She had found her sister in an asylum, and in 
the grave at our feet was her mysterious 
double. Sir Percival's boldness and Count 
Fosco's cleverness had succeeded in exchang- 
ing the destinies of the two women. The 
circumstance had netted these two gentlemen 



168 ONE HUNDRED BEST N0VEI5 CONDENSED 

some thirty thousand pounds, derived from 
the estate of Lady Glyde. 

The fortune was gone beyond recaU, but 
Lady Clyde's true identity might yet be 
estabUshed in the face of such evidence a^ her 
death certificate and tombstone, and the in- 
credulity of her friends and relatives. This 
I determined to do. Cast upon the world 
alone, the sisters readily agreed to allow me 
to take up their fight, and I determined that 
Laura should one day re-enter her father's 
estate recognized by all. 

It soon was apparent that Sir Percival and 
Count Fosco were the persons I must fight. 
I worked secretly but directly, for I had no 
funds with which to carry on a fight through 
the courts. The secret with which the 
Woman in White had threatened Sir Per- 
cival seemed to me to be the key to the whole 
situation. Through a series of inquiries, 
working always under the watch of spies, I 
f oimd it opportime to look up the marriage 
registration of Sir Percival's parents. I 
foimd it in a little country church — ^and it 
was forged. I was no sooner in possession 
of the knowledge of his illegitimate birth 
than Sir Percival, in furious desperation to 
destroy the evidence, entered the little church 



THE WOMAN IN WHITE 169 

by night, set fire to the structure, and through 
the agency of his own stupidity and an old- 
fashioned wooden lock, trapped himself into 
an awful death. 

Laura was free of her husband, but she 
remained an outcast — a woman dead to her 
friends and relatives. I was still deter- 
mined this should not be. My only hope of 
success lay in Count Fosco, who alone had 
the evidence which could estabUsh her legal 
existence. But to acknowledge Lady Clyde's 
identity would be to admit his guilt of one of 
the greatest of crimes. My task looked 
difficult, but an unknown agency came to 
my aid. 

Count Fosco was a traitor to one of the 
world-wide Italian secret societies. The 
knowledge came to me by chance, but it 
served me in good stead. I went to his 
house one night and bartered my silence for 
the evidence of Laura's existence. Count 
Fosco, in a long exposition, gave the details 
of his own and Sir Percival's cunning. Then 
he left England forever. To clear up the 
last shred of mystery surrounding the 
Woman in White I sought out her childhood 
home. I pieced together her story from her 
old friends and relatives. Fate had made 



170 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

her the illegitimate half-sister of her coun- 
terpart and the chance possessor of Sir 
Percival's secret. 

My labors ended, Marian Halcombe and 
her sister, who was now my wife, returned to 
the happy companionship of those days at 
linuneridge House before Sir Percival's cun- 
nmg had usurped the consummation of our 
love. On the death of Laura's uncle some 
months later her son and mine became the 
heir of the estate and fortune of the house of 
limmeridge. 




HALL CAINE 



CAINE 

rpHOMAS HENRY HALL CAINE, since 1918 
^ Sir Hall, of Manx descent, was bom ai Runr 
com, May H, 1853. 

He was trained for an architect, hut was attracted 
to journalism and to the writing of novels, which 
have frequently been rejrroduced on the stage; during 
the war he has taken a hand in propaganda, largely 
intended for America, and was editor of ^^King 
Alberfs Book^^ and Qiieen Alexandra's ^^ Christmas 
CaroV His hest-krujwn stories have attained an 
enomums circulation in print, and reached great 
audiences on the stage. ^^The Deemster, '^ '^The 
Bondman,^' *'The Manxman,'^ ^^The Christian,^^ 
''The Eternal City;' ''The Woman Thou Gavest 
Me,'' are among the best known in a long list, which 
have passed from the printed page to the stage, and 
finally, in some cases, to the films. 

It will he interesting to see how his hooks last. A 
certain force he undoubtedly has, and he knows ex- 
tremely well how to choose a svi^ed with an appeal 
to a large audience; he has, however, a considerable 
crudity in thought and expression, and his emo^ 



172 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

tional passages sometimes have (he air of being 
creaied to order. 

No English-speaking author has ever been so ex- 
tensively advertised as Hall Caine. He miist wait 
a generation or so to see whether in the end it pays to 
advertise. 



THE DEEMSTER 

By HALL CAINE 

Condensation by 
CAROLINE TICKNOR 

"yHE scene of this story is laid in the Isle 
■*■ of Man, two centuries ago, and it is 
filled with the weird superstitions of the 
Manx people. 

Thorkell Mylrea, the Deemster, was a vio- 
lent, cruel, and crafty Judge, who dwelt 
among the sturdy fisherfolk dispensing what- 
ever justice suited his purpose. Being ac- 
customed to bending all others to his will he 
was bitterly disappointed when his scholarly 
son, Ewan, refused to fulfil his worldly am- 
bitions and retired into the ministry. In 
anger, he cast him off and took into his house- 
hold his illegitimate son, Jarvis Kerruish, a 
worthless fop. 

Those qualities of strength and leadership 
which he longed to see in his son, Ewan, the 
Deemster found in his daredevil nephew, 



174 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

Dan Mylrea, son of his gentle and God-fear- 
ing brother, Gilcrist, Bishop of Man. Dan 
was a handsome, fiery young giant, who ex- 
celled in every manly sport, and Ewan and 
his lovely sister, Mona, adored their stalwart 
cousin, whose wild exploits among the fisher- 
men gave the Bishop much anxiety. From 
time to time Dan's impulsive nature ran 
away with hun and he committed some reck- 
less act that he sorely repented later. 

In a moment of thoughtlessness, when 
hounded for a debt, which he feared would 
worry the Bishop, Dan forged his cousin's 
name, feeling sure that Ewan would willingly 
have advanced the money, and Ewan, being 
confronted with the signature, declared it to 
be his own, telling a lie to save his cousin 
from prosecution. 

Dan's prompt expressions of sorrow and 
gratitude were checked by Ewan's an- 
nouncement that Dan should be from this 
time a stranger to himself and sister. 
Crushed and humiliated, Dan rushed to 
Mona's home and sought his cousin in her 
room, where he acknowledged his fault and 
protested against being estranged from her. 

Mona assured him that nothing should 
ever estrange them, and Dan, deeply re- 



THE DEEMSTER 175 

pentant, hurried away, encountering in the 
hall Jarvis Kemiish, who seeing him emerge 
from his cousin's room, promptly reported 
to the Deemster this evidence of Dan's 
improper conduct toward Mona, 

The Deemster, whose feeling for Dan had 
changed to jealous hatred, in turn conveyed 
this intelligence to Ewan, doing his best to 
convince him that Dan had treated Mona 
dishonorably. An excited interview between 
Ewan and his sister followed in which Ewan 
mistook her innocent protestations of love 
for Dan for a confirmation of her lover's 
guilt, and dashed away to avenge her sup- 
posed wrong. He found Dan ready to beg 
forgiveness for his past fault, but in blind 
passion Ewan took no heed of his words; 
accused him of being the basest of scoundrels 
and bade him depart from the island. 

Dan protested his innocence, but when he 
found that Ewan beUeved him to be so base, 
his own wild passion flamed up and he, in 
turn, cried out that there was "room for but 
one of them in the world." 

A mortal combat followed, near the edge 
of a cliff, and Ewan, almost overcome, threw 
his dagger into the air and reeled backward, 
falling over the precipice to his-death. Then 



176 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

Dan realized what he had done and was 
overwhehned with remorse. 

It was Christmas Eve, and Mona, waiting 
for Ewan^s return, had a terrible presenti- 
ment of his fate. As she tried to banish her 
fears, Dan cUmbed in through her window, 
prostrated himself before her, and confessed 
his guilt. 

FiUed with grief for her brother, horror at 
Dan's confession, and apprehension for her 
lover, Mona told Dan that he must give him- 
self up to justice and that by so doing he 
should atone for his sin. He pledged hunself 
to do as she wished, and while she protested 
her undying love for him, he bade her a pas- 
sionate farewell and vanished into the night. 

Returning half dazed to where Ewan's 
body lay, Dan found that his fisher friends 
had planned to take the body out to sea for 
burial. They embarked upon Dan's boat 
and he reluctantly allowed them to carry out 
their plan; owing to their unskiUed sewing 
of the canvas about Ewan's body, the cover- 
mg slipped apart and the corpse was washed 
back to land. 

Despite the fishermen's protest that all 
would be prosecuted if they returned, Dan 
insisted upoP,- liieir doing so. Ewan's body 



THE DEEMSTER 177 ' 

having been washed ashore was brought to 
the church where the Bishop had just 
finished his Christmas service. He and 
the Deemster looked upon the face of 
Ewan and realized the tragedy; and the 
latter taunting his brother with the fact 
that if Dan were proved the culprit, the 
Bishop must pronounce judgment on hia 
own son. I 

Dan, who had crept back in the darkness, 
witnessed the midnight burial of Ewan, and 
after slipping away, narrowly escaped death 
when he fell into an old mine-shaft where he 
remained for some time a prisoner. Mean- 
while his fisherman friends were arrested as 
implicated in the murder, but during their 
arraignment in court Dan appeared, pushed 
his way through the crowd and announced 
his guilt. 

He was placed in a dungeon under the 
Bishop's jurisdiction, and his father, bowed 
with grief, visited him and offered him the 
means of escape, which he refused. 

At the close of his trial Dan was pro- 
nounced "guilty," and awaited the death- 
sentence which he felt sure must follow. A 
more dreaded fate, however, awaited him. 
With a breaking heart his father pronounced 



178 ONE HUNDRED BEST N0VEI5 CONDENSED 

his sentence: '*This man shall be cut o£f 
from his people. . . . From now, forever, let 
no tongue speak to him. Alone let him live, 
alone die.'* 

As the people shrank away from him Dan 
passed from among them to the south of the 
island, where a boat, containmg suppUes 
and provisions, was awaiting hhn. 

For a year Dan dwelt in this boat shunnmg 
his kind, but at last, unable to endure the 
loneliness of the sea, he erected a rude shelter 
on a rocky island not far from shore, where 
he could look upon the habitations of men. 
On the first night that he slept ashore a 
frightful storm swept away his boat, leavmg 
hhn a prisoner on the island. 

Here, for seven years, he spent a solitary 
life, striving to make his peace with God, 
until at last it seemed to him the curse was 
lifted. 

Then at his cabin door appeared a dying 
priest, who had landed half fainting from a 
blow received from the boom of his boat. 
The priest had come from Ireland, at the 
Bishop of Man's request, to succor the people 
from a dreadful scourge called the ''sweating 
sickness.^' 

The priest told Dan that he should carry 



THE DEEMSTER 179 

on his own imfinished work, convey his mes- 
sage to the Bishop, and help to stay the 
plague. Before he died the saintly man 
outlined the methods to be followed in order 
to check the epidemic. 

And then at last Dan knew the oppor- 
tunity had come to make complete atone- 
ment. Able once more to reach the shore, 
he went among the sufferers, ministered to 
their needs and taught them how to cope 
with the disease. Soon the epidemic was 
stayed, while all the people were loud in 
praise of the strange priest whose face seemed 
to many a familiar one. 

The Deemster was among the last stricken, 
and Dan, summoned to his bedside, arrived 
in time to ease his final sufferings and to be 
recognized with superstitious horror before 
his uncle died. Even as Mona entered the 
house to reach her father's bedside, Dan 
slipped away, and hastening to the Bishop 
gave him the dead priest's message, and also 
the assurance that his son lived and had made 
atonement for his sin. 

And now, word went abroad that the 
strange priest, proven to be Daniel Mylrea, 
had been appointed to succeed his late uncle 
as Deemster, or Judge of the island. 



} 



180 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

This message read by Mona filled her with 
hope and a belief that Dan should at last 
come to his own. Accompanied by one 
faithful fisherboy, she journeyed to seek him 
out, only to find him unconscious and ill unto 
death in a bare cabin^ where he had fallen 
a victim to the disease he had so bravely 
combated. 

Mona watched beside him until in his last 
moments he looked upon her with joyful rec- 
ognition. She murmured the Lord's Prayer, 
and as he echoed the words, ** Deliver us from 
evil,'' his spirit passed. 

D. Appleton & Co., authorized publishers. 




EKCKMANN-CHATHUN 



ERCKMANN-CHA TRIAN 



P*RCKMANN-CHATRIAN is the joint name 
"'--' of hvo French ivriters whose collaboration 
made their work that of, so to speak, one personality; 
the former writing chiefly and the latter editing and 
adapting for the stage. Emile Erckmann was bom 
on the SOth of May, 183S, at Phalsbourg, and Louis 
Gratian Ahxandre Chatrian on the 18th of De- 
cember, 18S6, at Soldatenthal, Lorraine. They 
began their work together in 18^7 and contimted 
doing so until 1889. 

Among their first publications are "Science et 
Genie," " Schinderhannes, " and many short stories. 
The series of novels to which Erckmann-Chatrian 
owe in great part their repvXation includes "Le Fou 
Yigof," "Madame Th&rkse," "Histoire d'un Con- 
scrit de 1813," "L'Ami Fritz," "Histoire d'un 
Homme du Peuple," and many others. 

Their dramatic compositions and adaptations are 
"Georges, on le Chasseur des Ruines," "L'Alsace 
en 1814." 

Their stories, dealing with the realities of the 
times, are distinguished by simplicity and a genuine 
descriptive power, particularly in battle scenes and 



mm 



J 



182 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

those of Akatian peasant life. They are fuU of a 
most democratic spirit and patriotism^ which de- 
veloped j after 1870 j into a hatred of Germany and 
the Prussians. The authors attacked militarism 
by depicting all the horrors of war in the plainest 
terms. 

After Chatrian^s death Erckmann contributed to 
"1/6 Temps^^ two publications, ^^Kaleb et Khora^' 
and ^^La Premise Campagne du Grand-Pkre 
Jacques,^^ the latter being the first of a series of 
stories dealing with the wars of the Empire. 
^^ Waterloo J ^ one of the best liked and mx)st read 
of the works of the joint authors, was written in 
1865. 

Chatrian died at Villemombley near Paris, in 
1890; Erckmann died at Luniville in 1899. 



WATERLOO 

By MM. ERCKMANN-CHATRIAN 

Condensation by 
CHARLES E. L. WINGATE 

JHERE was joy unbounded when Louis 
-■- the Eighteenth returned in 1814. 

Yes, everybody was delighted, except the 
old soldiers and the fencing-masters. 

Living with Father Goulden in Phals- 
bourg, of old Lorraine, I was happy in the 
beUef that conscription was now over, and 
that, at last, I should be able to marry 
Catherine and live in peace. 

So, when the marriage permit came, I 
rushed at once to her with the news. I 
kissed her again and again and we both 
wept for joy. 

And then, after the happiness of marrymg 
Catherine, my greatest deUght lay in thi^ng 
that I should be a tradesman for the rest of 
my life. 

Ah, what a happy life! what satisfaction 



184 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

to be young and to have a simple, good, 
industrious wife! We shall never be old! 
We shall always love each other and always 
retain about us those whom we love. 

Thus days and weeks went by. But, later 
on, we found that the returning royalists, 
the mmisters and the princes, who had rushed 
back to France after Napoleon's banishment, 
adopted the most insolent manner toward 
us, the people. And as to their treatment of 
Napoleon's former soldiers I can still hear 
the commandant expostulating, "They are 
starving us; they are treating us like Cos- 
sacks; only they are too cowardly to shoot 
us!" 

But, about the beginning of March, a 
rumor began to circulate that the Emperor 
had escaped from Elba and had landed in 
France. Quickly his advance toward Paris 
followed; and the old soldiers, sent out to 
restrain him, rushed forward to kneel at his 
feet. Thus it was that Napoleon again 
came to the throne. 

What happened afterward, however, was 
not so agreeable to me, now a married man, 
settled as I had hoped for a life of peace. For 
I was called to the colors. Aunt Grethel, 
who had always been like a mother to 



WATERLOO 185 

me, sobbed aloud. Catherine passed into a 
deathly swoon. 

Yet, in spite of all, I needs must leave for 
the army with my old veteran soldier friend, 
Zebede, and at once we were rushed to the 
front. 

One day, as we halted, the Emperor came 
to our lines and the whole division shouted, 
"Vive I'Empereur!" 

I had a good view of him as he advanced 
with his arms crossed behind his back and his 
head bent. He had grown stouter and more 
sallow since the days of Leipsic. He looked 
much older and his cheeks were flabby. 
Little wonder, also, that he appeared worried 
^or had he not lost everybody's confidence? 
The old soldiers alone retained their love for 
him; they were ready to conquer or to die 
in his behalf. But for my part I cared 
much more for Catherine than for the 
Emperor. Of her I thought with greatest 
tenderness, the more so knowing that she 
would soon become a mother. And I prayed 
to God to preserve my life. 

At last we came upon the Prussians and, 
driving them back at Ligny, marched on 
against the British. 

I thought I should drop every moment 



1S6 ONE HUNDBED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

from weakness, but finally near Waterloo, 
on mounting a little ridg^, we saw the 
English pickets through the rain. 

In a cornfield, under a beating storm, we 
lay like gypsies, our teeth chattering with 
the cold — and yet thinking of massacring 
oiu" fellow -men, and esteeming ourselves 
lucky if we had a tmnip, a carrot or anything 
else to keep up oiu- strength. Is that a life 
for honest men? Is it for this that God 
created us? Is it not an abomination to 
think that a king or an emperor, instead of 
encoiu-aging commerce and diffusing liberty, 
should reduce us to this state by himdreds of 
thousands? I know that this is called glory, 
but people are foolish to glorify such men 
who have lost all sense of right and heart 
and religion. 

When I awoke in the morning the chiu-ch- 
bells were ringing and I thought: 

"To-day is Simday, a day of peace and 
rest. Father Goulden, dressed in his best 
coat and a clean shirt, is thinking of me. 
Catherine is sitting on the bed and weeping. 
Aunt Grethel has taken her prayer-book and 
is going to Mass." As I pictured to myself 
that quiet, happy life, I could have burst 
into tears. 



WATERLOO 187 

But the drums began to beat and the 
trumpets sounded. 

The first movement was when our four 
divisions were ordered to advance. We 
were about twenty thousand men, marching 
in two lines and sinking up to our knees with 
every step in the soft mud. Nobody spoke 
a word. 

Face to face with us were the EngUsh, in 
perfect order, their cannoneers with lighted 
matches in their hands. 

On all sides, as far as the eye could reach, 
nothing was to be seen but cuirasses, helmets, 
swords, lances, and rows of bayonets. 

"What a battle!" cried Buche, my com- 
rade-at-arms. "Woe to the English!" 

And I thought as he did. I believed that 
not a single Englishman would escape. But 
bad luck pursued us that day; though, had 
it not been for the Prussians, I think we 
should have exterminated them all. 

Down into the little valley we poured, 
right into the face of the English fire, and 
shouting all the time, "Give them the 
bayonet!" 

The batteries hurled their grape-shot point- 
blank upon us. It was then, for the first 
time, I saw the English close at hand. They 



188 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

had fair skins and were clean shaven like 
respectable citizens. They can fight well, 
too — ^but we are as good as they. Every 
shot of the English told; and this forced us 
to break our ranks, for men are not mere 
palisades. 

And almost at the same moment we saw 
a mass of red dragoons, on gray horses, 
sweeping along like the wind and sabering 
our stragglers without mercy. It was one of 
the most terrible moments of my life as we 
were driven back. 

What a fearful thing is a battle I 

Then out came Marshal Ney waving his 
sword in the air. Older, thinner, and more 
bony than when I saw him last, but still the 
same brave soldier with the clear eyes that 
seemed to take us all in. 

'^ Forward,'' he cried; ''I shall lead you 
myself!'' And we rushed ahead, one after 
the other like a pack of wolves, imtil we 
gained the principal outpost of the British. 

But suddenly the rumor spread that the 
Prussians were coming. I felt myself grow 
pale. 

At that moment cries of ''Vive I'Em- 
pereur!" rose from thousands of throats 
behind us, and looking back I saw all our 



cavalry of the right wing advancing to attack 
the solid squares of the English. It was an 
awesome sight. With waving sabers they 
rushed pell-mell again and again upon the 
redcoats. Twenty such charges they made, 
until the horses of our cuirassiers, exhausted, 
could no longer even walk — and there still 
firmly stood the great red lines, steadfast 
as walls. 

Now all that remained for attack was the 
Old Guard — those wonderful veterans who 
had fought in Germany, in Egypt, in Spain, 
and in Russia, of whom the Emperor took 
special care and who no longer knew parents 
or relations. They only knew the Emperor 
who was their god. When it was said in the 
ranks, "The Guard is going to charge," it 
was the same as saying, "The battle is 
won!" 

And Ney commanded them I 

Upon the Guard fell the concentrated hail 
of bullets. In twenty minutes every officer 
had been dismounted and the Guard, reduced 
from three thousand men to twelve hundred, 
slowly gave way. 

Now the entire English army fell upon us. 
And, as the remnant of the Old Guard fell 
backward, across the field fled hussars, cui- 



1 



190 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

rassiers, artiUery, and infantry like an anny 
of savages. 

What can I tell you more? It was utter 
rout. And in the valley old Bliicher, with 
forty thousand Prussians, was loommg up. 

The end had come — ^and I wept like a 
child. 

Back we scurried, borne down with fatigue, 
hunger, and despair. 

"Keep on," cried Buche, "the Prussians 
take no prisoners. Look! they are cutting 
down every one.'' 

So back, back, even to Paris we fled, and 
there we learned that hostilities were to be 
suspended, that the Emperor had gone, 
and that the King was returning to the 
throne. Desertions began. Fifteen of us 
from Lorraine left together. 

I hurried on from viUage to village and 
at last reached Pfalzbourg — ^and my home. 

Up the stairs I sprang; Catherine was in 
my arms. I fell to sobbing so violently 
that one would have thought misfortune had 
come upon me. 

The first words of Catherine were: "Jo- 
seph, I knew that you would come back. I 
had put my trust in God.'' 

Thus happiness finally reached us. 



WATERLOO 191 

Now I have lived to see the return of the 
flag of Uberty and to see the nation increase 
in wealth, in education, and in happiness. 
People begin to understand their rights. 
They know that war only brings increase of 
taxation and suffering; and when the people, 
as masters, shall say, "Instead of sending our 
sons to perish by thousands beneath the 
sword and the cannon, we will have them 
taught and made men!" who will dare 
gainsay them? 

In this hope I bid you fareweU, my friends, 
and I embrace you with all my heart. 



KINQSLEY 

T^HE time in which Charles Kingsley lived and 
wrote was aMn to our own. The rising of the 
oppressed workers and the social ferment in England 
JoUomng the rewlviion of 1848 in France were in a 
small way similar to the impetus toward freedom 
stirred by the Russian revolution throughout the 
world. 

Kingsley^s vigorous yet sympathetic personality j 
his flashing scorn for hypocrisy and his fearless love 
of justice, made him a natural champion of the op- 
pressed. ^^ Alton Locke^^ and ^^YeasV^ both ap- 
peared the year after the revolution. The first is an 
exposition of the sweating system in which London 
low life and working-class thought are pictured 
with extraordinary vividness and understanding. 
" Yeastj^ written in burning indignation at the corir 
dition of the agricultural laborer in England^ has a 
^^ depth and passion and power, a life, an intensity , 
the tenth part of which would make the fortune of a 
novel nowP 

Kingsley was a tireless worker for practical re- 
form, but the great lesson he tried to convey was that 
*'the future welfare of society demands a new out- 




CHAKLES KINGSLEY 



KINGSLEY 193 

hurst of the latent forces of Christ^ s religion. It 
was not amazing, therefore, that he should have 
turned from English settings and subjects, in which 
he was so passionately interested, to a study of the 
fifth century. The empire at that period wa^ en- 
slaving the masses; a universal fermentation of hur 
man thought was in process. The Young Church 
and the Old World were ai grips in a death-straggle. 
He wished to prove in a novel of that epoch that 
^^Christianity is the only really democratic creed,^^ 
so he wrote the brilliarU and tragic ^'Hypatia.^^ 

The richness of Kingsley^s personality is realized 
as one turns from *'Hypaiia^^ to the incomparable 
*' Water Babies,^^ whimsical, charming, eternally 
delightful to big and Utile children. 



HYPATIA 

By CHARLES KINGSLEY 

Condensation by 
PROF. WILLIAM FENWICK HARRIS 

pHILAMMON could bear no more. An- 
^ other moment and he had hurled down 
through the dense mass of spectators^ clearing 
rank after rank of seats by the sheer strength 
of madness, leaped the balustrade into the 
orchestra below, and rushed across the space 
to the foot of the platform. 

"Pelagia ! Sister ! My sister ! Have 
mercy on me! on yourself! I will hide you! 
save you ! and we will flee together out of this 
infernal place! this world of devils! I am 
your brother ! Come ! " 

She looked at him one moment with wide, 
wild eyes — ^the truth flashed on her — 

"Brother!" 

And she sprang from the platform into his 
iixms. 

A vision of a lofty window in Athens, 



HYPATIA 195 

looking out over far olive yards and gardens, 
and the bright roofs and basins of the 
Piraeus, and the broad blue sea, with the 
purple peaks of ^gina beyond all— and a 
dark-eyed boy, with his arm around her 
neck, pointed laughing to the twinkling 
masts in the far harbor, and called her sister. 
The dead soul woke within her; and with 
a wild cry she recoiled from him in an agony 
of shame, and covering her face with both 
her hands, sank down among the blood- 
stained sands. 

A yell, as of all hell broke loose, rang along 
that vast circle. 

"Down withhim! Awaywithhim! Cru- 
cify the slave! Give the barbarian to the 
beasts I To the beasts with him, noble 
Prefect!" 

The pleasure-loving people of Alexandria 
did not take kindly to the youth who so 
rudely interrupted the delicious spectacle 
which their prefect had staged for them, 
"Aphrodite Rising from the Sea." 

It was Alexandria in the fifth century of 
our era. The city founded by a king who 
dreamed not in empires, but in continents, 
placed at the strategic point where it would 
command three of those great units, had 



196 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

achieved a pre-eminence in beauty, in vice, 
in learning, in turbulence, in the cosmo- 
politan character of its people. The three 
continents which Alexander would unite into 
one had poured into his city their best and 
their worst, and each strove desperately for 
supremacy. Many a man in those days 
must have thought that 

East is East and West is West, 
And never the twain shall wed, 

though meet they did in ways as tem- 
pestuous as the most violent of matrimony. 
The empire, nominally Christian in the 
persons of the rulers since the unsuccessful 
attempt of Julian to turn back the hands 
of time to the faith of paganism, found itself 
in constant clashes with the growing power of 
the church; Orestes, the imperial prefect, 
and Cyril, the miUtant bishop, vied with 
each other in despatches to Constantinople, 
each complaining at the other's usurpations; 
the army of legionaries and the vast throngs 
of monks each entertained a considerable 
respect for the fighting qualities of the 
other. 

The Jews were in great numbers and were 
not in the happiest position between church 



and empire; while the descendants of Alex- 
ander's Macedonians, and Greeks from all 
quarters of the eastern Mediterranean, could 
not forget that they had once been the mas- 
ters of Egypt. Constant conflict in the 
streets between the partizans of each side 
laid a fitting scene for Charles Kinsley's 
reUgious philosophic historical melodrama. 

Cyril, Bishop and later saint, is nominally 
the leader of the battling churchmen of the 
tale; the great Augustine and the philo- 
sophic Synesius, bishops both, are minor 
personages of the drama, with many other 
passing figures of the church, but the leading 
character from that side is the humble 
Philammon, the young boy of the monastery 
in the desert, who makes his way in the 
simplicity of his zeal to brave the world, the 
flesh, and the devil, where so many other 
monks of fiction have found that interesting 
triad, keeping headquarters at Alexandria. 
The city was ruled by Orestes, so far as any 
prefect could rule that unruly cosmopolis, a 
worldly and elusive person, who, not satis- 
fied with the troubles already at hand, would 
conspire to erect an empire of Africa out of 
the difficulties of Rome and Constantinople, 
and to crown as his empress Hypatia, ideal- 



198 ONE HIJNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

ist, mathematician^ neo-Platonist; leader and 
teacher of what remained of Greek phi- 
losophy as a living force. Under Hypatia's 
sway fell the young Philammon by reason of 
her beauty, her power of speech, and the 
inherited appeal of philosophy to one whose 
ancestry was Athenian. An appeal of an- 
other sort came to him from Pelagia, dancer 
and beauty, darling of the city in general and 
jot individuals in particular. To the charm 
of Hypatia yielded not only the worldly 
prefect and the simple monk, but the most 
interesting figure of the story, Raphael- 
Aben-Ezra, descended from the blood of 
Solomon, rich, lazy, and selfish to all ap- 
pearance, but the personage in whose soul 
and mind was surging most violently the 
struggle and conflict which is the keynote 
of the book. Should the traditions of Jewry, 
the liu-e of Greek philosophy, the charm of a 
pleasant if tiunultuous world, or the power of 
Christianity conquer in him? In his ap- 
parently easy-going way through existence, 
he was measuring what every phase of that 
seething caldron had to offer as a solution 
for the problems which a human soul has to 
ponder for its own salvation. It took him 
long to decide, and it was only by the minis- 



i 



trations of Augustine and Synesius and the 
living example of Victoria that he finally 
found in Christianity the truly democratic 
creed by which the world could best live. 

Struggle and strife of soul or body — 
Philammon's yearning to see more of the 
world than the monastery in the desert; his 
enthralment by the charm of Hypatia's 
beauty and her learning; Cyril's struggles by 
militant means toward a spiritual end; 
Orestes's to win an empire; Pelagia's to win 
love; Raphael to find the truth; the conflict 
between old thought and new; and as the cU- 
max, the conflict and the end in Hypatia's case : 

"Yes, on into the church itself! Into the 
cool, dim shadow, with its fretted pillars, and 
towering domes, and candles, and incense, 
and blazing altar, and great pictures, looking 
from the walls athwart the gorgeous gloom. 
And right in front, above the altar, the 
colossal Christ watching unmoved from off 
the wall, his right hand raised to give a 
blessing — or a curse? 

"On, up the nave, fresh shreds of her dress 
strewing the holy pavement, up the chancel 
steps themselves — up to the altar — right 
underneath the great, still Christ; and there 
even those hell-hounds paused. 



200 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

"She shook herself free from her tor- 
mentors, and springing back, rose for one 
moment to her full height, naked, snow- 
white against the dusky mass aroimd, shame 
and indignation in those wide, clear eyes, but 
not a stain of fear. With one hand she 
clasped her golden locks aroimd her; the 
other long, white arm was stretched upward 
toward the great, still Christ, appealing — ^and 
who dare say in vain? — ^from man to God. 
Her lips were opened to speak; but the words 
that should have come from them reached 
God's ears alone; for in an instant they 
struck her down, the dark mass closed over 
her again — ^and then wail on wail, ear- 
piercing, rang along the vaulted roofs, and 
thrilled like the trumpet of avenging angels 
through Philammon's ears.'' 



STEVENSON 

nOBERT LOUIS STEVENSON writes in 
"* "^ 188S: "T am now a person toith an established 

ill-health — a wife — a dog possessed with an evil 
spirit — a certain reputation — and very obscure 
finances. I now draw near to the Middle Ages; 
nearly three years ago that fatal thirty struck; and 
yet the great work is not yet even conceived. Eight 
years ago, if I could have slung ink as I can now, I 
should have thought myself well on the road after 
Shakespeare — and now — I find I have only got a 
pair of walking-shoes and not yet begun to 
travel." 

At this time he and his wife spent one of their 
happiest periods in their first real home, "La Soli- 
tude," in Hybres. At the end of sixteen months 
he was again flung back into acute suffering. They 
went to Bournemouth, where they lived in "Skerry- 
vore" until after his father's death. Confined to 
the house— a condition most irksome to hia active 
temperament — his gallant and buoyant spirit never- 
theless flamed into expression at the slightest respite 
from pain and weakness. He wrote "Kidnapped," 
one of his most brilliant successes, and the "vnld, 



202 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

symbolic" tale of ^^Dr. JekyU and Mr. HydCy" the 
most popular of aU his writings. 

In 1887 he left the trying dimate of the British 
Isles, never to return. With his family he went to 
the United States, where he wa^ acclaimed, but his 
weak condition necessitated an immediate rest at 
Saranac, New York. Here he wrote for ''Scribner^s 
Magazine" the essays including ''The Lantern 
Bearers," ''Dreams," and "Pulvis et Umbra," 
the charm of which is ageless. 



KIDNAPPED 

By ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON 

Condensation by 
JAMES B. CONNOLLY 



TT was dawn; the blackbirds were whistling 
^ in the lilacs, the mists of the valley arising 
and melting, when I set out for the house of 
Shaw. On the forenoon of the second day, 
coming to the top of a hill, I saw the city of 
Edinburgh smoking like a kiln below me. 
There was a flag upon the castle and ships 
anchored to the blue floor of the Firth, a 
sight which thrilled me. 

I walked on toward Cramond, making 
inquiries as I went of my uncle, who seemed 
to be in no favor thereabout, some ^ving me 
a half -civil word, some a scowl or a curse for 
an answer. It was night, and his house 
barred and dark when I came to it; and it 
was a long while before my shouts and knocks 
brought him to the window from where, with 



J 



204 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

a blunderbuss by way of welcome, he 
screamed to inquire my business. 

It was a mean, stooping, clay-faced creat- 
ure; and a big muckle house and an ill-kept 
one I saw when at last he let me in, with 
dirt, mice, and spiders havmg their play of it. 
Here I stayed some days, the while he 
sparingly fed me with porridge and a rare 
half-cup of ale. 

One night he gave me forty pounds, saying 
it was a debt he owed my father, and with it 
gave me also a rusty key to the high stair 
tower, teUing me to bring him down the chest 
at the top of it. I went, poor fool, into the 
dark to bring it ; and only a blink of summer 
lightning saved me from stepping into space 
and being dashed sheer down from the top 
of the tower. 

Of the estate that he had defrauded my 
father in life I had then no suspicion; but 
that happening of the tower gave me a 
glimpse of his viUainy. In the morning my 
body would be discovered at the foot of the 
tower, his forty pounds in my pockets, as one 
trying to escape after robbing his host. 
What a tale he would make of it ! 

Next day my uncle spoke of a friend, 
Captain Elias Hoseason, of the brig Covenant y 



KIDNAPPED 205 

then lying off Queensferry on the Firth, pro- 
posing that I go to call there with him. I 
agreed, being eager to get away from that 
evil house; also I had knowledge that re- 
siding in Queensferry was Mr. RankieUor, 
the counselor and agent, a friendly person 
and one who knew more than any other of 
my father's business in Ufa. 

We arrived at Queensferry, but I did not 
see Mr. RankieUor, foreby I first allowed my- 
self to be led into looking over the brig with 
Captain Hoseason and my uncle. It was so 
that I came to be knocked on the head and 
kidnapped to sea on the agreement between 
my uncle and Captain Hoseason that I was 
to be sold into slavery in the Carolines. 

It was a fair wind the first day to sea, but 
following days were all head winds, the ship 
making so little way on her course to the 
north that Captain Hoseason made a fair 
wind of a foul one by heading her south back 
the way we had come. During this time of 
bad weather the cabin-boy was killed by the 
first officer in a drunken passion, his body cast 
overboard, and I pressed into his berth. 

It was night, with a swell and a thick 
white fog, the men listening for breakers, 
when the brig ran over a boat; and sent all 



206 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

but one man to the bottom. That one, with 
a leap and a clutch which showed his rare 
agility and strength, boarded us by way of the 
brig's bowsprit. 

He entered the cabin, or roimdhouse, 
looking cool as you please, and called for 
something to eat and the drink to wash it 
down. He was a well-set, rather small man 
with a dark face and dancing bright eyes. 
Under his greatcoat were two silver-mounted 
pistols, a dirk, and a great-sword. He made 
his name known, Alan Stewart Breck, and 
without fear announced himself as on a mis- 
sion for Prince Charlie. From a money-belt 
about him he offered the captain sixty 
guineas to be set ashore on Linnhe Loch. 

The captain shook hands on the bargain, 
but at once went on deck to plot with his 
first oflBicer as how best to come at the 
money-belt. I had no love for the captain, 
and also it was scurvy hospitality to a man 
we had all but drowned; so I warned the 
stranger of the plot. Surprised he was, but 
not put out, asking me would I stand with 
him. Jacobite though he was, I said I would. 

Two doors and a skyUght furnished en- 
trance to the roundhouse. Alan placed me 
with loaded pistols where I could see to 



KIDNAPPED 

shoot through at whoever might come at one 
closed door or through the glass skylight. 
The other door he left open, standing before 
it with dirk and sword. They came with a 
rush of feet and many loud cries toward 
Alan. I heard a shout from him and a cr 
as of some one hurt. Then came five men 
with a spare yard for a battering-ram to drive 
my door in. For the first time in my life I 
fired a pistol; and hit one of them, which 
drove them back. By then Alan's sword was 
running blood; and the first mate, he who 
had murdered the cabin-boy, lay dying on the 
floor. Another lay beside him. 

They came next to my side, some to the 
barred door and one dropping through the 
skylight to the floor, where, after first closing 
my eyes, I shot him. He dropped with a 
horrible groan. Another one's legs dangled 
through the skylight, and him I shot, too, 
he dropping dead atop of his companion. 
Alan was then dirking one who clung to his 
legs, and putting the cutlass to another who 
was coming head on at him. A third held a 
cutlass over him and yet more were crowding 
at him through the door. He seemed lost; 
but he broke clear and, taking his distance, 
clove one, clove another, and then, his 



208 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CX)NDENSED 

sword flashing like quicksilver, drove the 
others like sheep along the deck. 

We were masters of the brig. Alan em- 
braced and kissed me, saying : " David, I love 
you like a brother. But oh, man, am I no 
the bonny fighter!" and sitting down by the 
table, sword in hand, he burst into a Gaelic 
song. 

The very next night we struck on a reef. 
I was thrown into the sea, thinking I would 
drown, but found a spar and with it kicked 
myself along till my feet found quiet water 
and dry land. Of the ship or her company I 
could see nothing. Later I learned that all 
but the wounded were safe. The ship her- 
self was a total loss to Captain Hoseason, 
which I did not grieve to hear. 

After days of wandering and secret inqmry , 
for he was one with a price on his head, I 
found Alan. It was in the same hoiu* that I 
witnessed the killing of Campbell of Glemu'e, 
the man who had been doing the King's will 
against the Jacobites. The shot came in 
such fashion that I seemed to be an ac- 
complice. I had to flee or be hanged. 
It was Alan who secured my immediate es- 
cape. For two months thereafter, with red- 
coats guarding every road and glen, I fol- 



KIDNAPPED 

lowed Alan through the country of the ] 
Campbells. 

It was wet and cold and slim food for us 
both, with now and then a little something 
not much better in the hut of a Jacobite. 
Weary I grew and full of pain, crawling the 
wet heather and climbing the ragged crags 
and hiUs. Posted bills promised great re- 
wards for our capture — I saw them every- 
where — and many there were who knew us 
for what we were; but never one, poor and 
miserable though they might be, to speak 
the word of betrayal. "Such," cried Alan, 
proudly, "is the loyalty of the Hielander!" 

We came safe at last to Queensferry and 
the home of Mr. Rankiellor, who proved a 
shrewd, kindly friend and who at once set 
about retrieving my rights in the Shaw 
estate. "Your father," he explained, 
a good man, but weak. He loved your J 
mother. To win your mother he let your I 
uncle steal the estates. But he will have | 
them back soon." 

Alan aided us greatly in our plans. Half 
by quick wit and half by sheer boldness, he 
had my uncle admit his plan to have me kid- 
napped and sold into slavery in the Carolines, 
Mr. Rankiellor and his clerk all the while 



210 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

listening in the shadows. And so I came into 
my own. 

And Alan, who made a man of me? All 
he asked was to be put on the road of his 
mission. As to that, let me say if I say no 
more, that he went safe on his way and all 
went weU with him thereafter. 



« - • 




CHAELES DICKENS 



DICKENS 

/^HARLES DICKENS did most of his writing 
^ in the morning. He iLSiuilly was content with 
the hours between nine and one. He rarely wrote in 
the afternoon. In his youthful days he often comr 
posed at night, hvi this habit was abandoned later. 

He could turn off page after page at great speed 
and oftentimes the custom of printing his novels in 
parts made this necessary. He was seldom far 
ahead of the printer. But ordinarily he considered 
three pages a good day^s work. If he did four and 
they satisfied him he thought it an unusually good 
day. 

He liked to write. He described himself as one 
'^who writes and grins, as if he thought he were very 
funny indeed.^' This wa^ when he was well into 
his story. In starting a novel he was extremely 
slow. He could not hit upon names that satisfied 
him. His most loved hero was Trotfield, Trofbury, 
Copperboy, and Copperstone before he finally be- 
came Copperfield. But once in his stride he seldom 
rewrote, and he plunged ahead joyously. 

For every hour given to writing he set aside an- 
other for exercise. He describes how he ''walked 



212 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

about the block streets of London^ fifteen and twenty 
miles many a night when all the sober folks had gone 
to bed.^^ As he walked, whether in London or Paris 
streets or along the Kentish diffsy he was planning 
his story. But he was not so absorbed as to be 
oblivious to the people he passed. Quaint and 
commonplace men and women in city streets and 
country lanes flashed for a moment before his eyes 
and the next day were made immortal in his tales. 



OLIVER TWIST 

By CHARLES DICKENS 

Condensation by 
REV. HOWARD LaFIELD 

/^LIVER TWIST was born about seventy- 
^^ five miles from London, in the lying-in 
room of the almshouse. His mother, worn 
and exhausted from a long and painful jour- 
ney on foot, had been found unconscious in 
the road, and had been carried to the only 
place of refuge for such as she seemed to be. 
His name he owed to the inventive genius of 
the parish beadle, who remarked, ^'The last 
one was a ^s' — Swubble I named him, the 
next one as comes will be Unwin, and I've 
got names ready made to the end of the 
alphabet; and all the way through it again^ 
when we come to ^z.'" 

The wronged and unhappy mother died 
without revealing her name, and the only 
proofs of the boy's identity, a locket and ring. 



214 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

kept even at the price of starvation, were 
stolen from the corpse before it was cold by 
the old crone who had been in attendance. 

The orphan's childhood, passed in cruel 
neglect and semi-starvation, was brought to 
an abrupt close by his own unparalleled act. 
Desperate through hunger, he and his com- 
panions determine that some one of them 
shall secure for all an extra helping of the 
thin and watery gruel which is their princi- 
pal diet. The lot falls upon Oliver. Nine- 
year-old child though he was, he was "reck- 
less with misery." He rose from the table, 
and, advancing to the workhouse-master, 
basin and spoon in hand, he said, "Please, 
sir, I want some more!'' 

Such unheard-of daring receives speedy 
treatment. The next morning a bill, posted 
upon the gate, offers five pounds to any one 
who will take Oliver Twist off the hands of 
the parish. 

Then there follows a brief stay as the ap- 
prentice of a coflSnmaker and undertaker, 
who, with an eye to the effect, promptly 
makes of the sad-faced little waif a chief 
mourner at the funerals of children, and 
"many were the processions which little 
Oliver headed, in a hatband reaching down 



OLIVER, TWIST 215 

to his knees, to the admiration of all the 
mothers in the town." 

His master is, on the whole, well disposed 
toward him, but a fight with a buUying older 
apprentice brings him into unmerited dis- 
grace and punishment and he runs away. 

On the outskirts of London he chances 
upon the fascinatingly droll Artful Dodger, 
pickpocket and pupil of Fagin. The curious 
behavior of his new associates is only a game 
to the innocent boy, when Fagin places snuff- 
boxes, jewelry, watches, and handkerchiefs 
in his pockets, and then stands looking in 
imaginary store-windows while (in an un- 
believably short time) every one of the 
things is taken from him. The true meaning 
of it all bursts upon the horrified Oliver when 
he is taken on an expedition and sees the 
"game" in full operation. Dazed and con- 
fused, he is the only one captured and taken 
before a magistrate. His innocence is estab- 
Ushed, but he faints in the court-room, and 
is taken home by the remorseful Mr. Brown- 
low, the man whose pocket he was supposed 
to have picked. In his new friend's house 
Oliver is nursed through a serious illness, 
and better days seem to have dawned for him, 
when he again falls into the hands of Fagin. 

vol.. III.— 17 



216 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

This is no chance happening, for the old 
crook, dreading the information which the 
boy nmy give, has him kidnapped, while on 
an errand for Mr. Brownlow, by Nancy, a 
wretched girl of the streets, pupil of Fagin, 
and mistress of Bill Sikes, the greatest 
ruffian of the whole gang. 

In order to close diverts mouth, by mak- 
ing him also a criminal, he is taken along on 
a housebreaking attempt. Protesting, he is 
putjthrough a small window that he may open 
the door to his companions. He is firmly de- 
tennined to warn the people of the house, 
but the burglary is a faUure, and Oliver, 
wounded by L^y shot, is left in a ditch b^ 
the fleeing gangsters. The next morning he 
crawls, injured as he is, to the same house, 
where his story is beUeved and he finds new 
and lasting friends. 

Again the lad is sought out by Fa^n, aided 
by a mysterious man who has shown great 
emotion at a chance sight of Oliver in the 
street, and who now plots with Fagin, not 
merely for the possession of the boy, but for 
his moral ruin, which seems to be desired 
especially by this so-called Monks. 

Their whispered plottings are overheard by 
Nancy, who atones for her former kidnapping 



OLIVER TWIST 217 

of Oliver by risking her life to inform his new 
friends of his true parentage. 

The interview between this scorned street- 
girl and the beautiful Rose Maylie, adopted 
niece of Oliver's protectress, gives Dickens a 
splendid opportunity to which he does not 
fail to do fuU justice. "Coldly and harshly 
treated by Mrs. Maylie's self-righteous ser- 
vants, the girl is in a defiant mood when 
finally admitted, and remarks, with a toss 
of the head, 'It's a hard matter to get to see 
you, lady. If I had taken offense and gone 
away, as many would have done, you'd have 
been sorry for it one day, and not without 
reason.' " 

But "the kind tone of the answer she re- 
ceived, the sweet voice, the gentle manner, 
the absence of any accent of haughtiness or 
displeasure, took the girl completely by sur- 
prise and she burst into tears. 'Oh, lady, 
lady,' she said, clasping her hands passion- 
ately before her face, ' if there was more like 
you, there would be fewer hke me, there 
would, there would!'" 

Then comes the startling account of what 
Nancy had overheard: Monks has secured, 
by clever inquiry and bribery, the locket and 
the ring; he recognized Oliver; he alludes to 



218 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

his father's will and speaks of the gratifica- 
tion it will be to him (Monks) to make a 
common felon of his young brother^ Oliver. 
He also says with a laugh that there is some 
comfort in the fact that his identity has been 
kept from his latest friends, "since how many 
thousands and hundreds of thousands of 
pounds they would give to know who their 
two-legged spaniel is." 

Rejecting all Rose's efforts to place her in 
some safe refuge from her horrible associates, 
and refusing aU rewards, the weeping girl 
returns to the only life she has ever known, 
arrangmg to repeat her evidence to some 
discreet man whom Rose is to bring to 
London Bridge. 

Nancy keeps this appointment with Rose 
and Mr. Brownlow, but it costs her her life, 
as suspicious Fagin has had her foUowed and 
watched. Sikes, insane with rage, brutally 
disregards her protestations that she has 
shielded him and has remained faithful to 
him. Disbelieving her, he beats her to 
death with a club, then flees vainly from the 
terrors of his own memory of the deed, and 
dies by an accident as he is trying to escape 
arrest. 

The gang is broken up by evidence m 



OLIVER TWIST 219 

Mr. Brownlow^s hands. Fagin is tried and 
hanged. 

As to Monks, whose real name is Leeford, 
Mr. Brownlow proves to be his father^s 
intimate friend, to have had first-hand infor- 
mation of all the facts the dissolute son had 
tried to conceal. OUver is his half-brother, 
natural son of Edwin Leeford and Agnes 
Fleming, to whom he had turned in passion- 
ate love from his unhappy and wretched 
home. His will left the bulk of his property 
to Agnes (in default of other atonement) and 
to their unborn child. If a boy, however, 
he was only to inherit if he kept his name 
unstained during his minority. Rose is the 
younger sister of the unhappy Agnes. 

Monks takes the share given him and 
leaves England; Oliver is adopted by Mr. 
Brownlow; Rose marries Mrs. Maylie's son, 
Harry, and the two households enter on 
well-merited blessings and happiness. 



LE SAGE 

jfLAIN RENELE SAGE, author of one of the 
-^-^ world^s most remarkoble books, was horn on 
December IS, 1668, in a small town of western 
France. He died, nearly eighty years later, in 
17Ji7. 

Unlike many men of genius, Le Sage did not go 
through life doing spectacular things. His father, 
who held some responsible legal positions, left a 
considerable fortune when Le Sage became an 
orphan as a child. His guardians either stole or 
invested with criminal carelessness the lad^s money, 
but he was given a good education and was admitted 
to the bar. Fees came in slowly and Le Sage faced 
extreme poverty. Yet he dared to marry and turned 
to the stage for means of support. 

For years he wrote, never really successful, but 
never actually in want. He was nearly forty years 
of age when a comedy gave him a Parisian rejmtor 
tion, and a novel made him known to France. The 
first two parts of ^^ Gil Bias " were published in 1715, 
but they were not liked so well as his earlier story. 
Le Sage, however, knew how good it was, and he 
labored over it as devotedly as a great sculptor over a 



LE SAGE 221 

hhck of marble. The third part was not published 
until 17i4f ^^ '^i ^^^ i7S5 was the last part put 
forth. During these twenty years he had also 
turned out play after play, and numerous hooks. 
He did not cease to unite until after his seventieth 
birthday had passed. 

Outside of France Le Sage will always live &e- 
cause of his one book thai ranks among the world^s 
masterpieces. *'Gil Bias'' is life itself, an ani- 
mated picture of Spain in its most colorful period. 
^^It is a work'' says Sir Walter Scott, *' which 
renders the reader pleased with himself and man- 
kind, where faults are placed before him in the light 
of follies rather than vices, and where misfortunes 
are so interwoven with the ludicrous that we laugh 
in the very act of sympathizing with them." 



GIL BLAS 

By ALAIN RENfi LE SAGE 

Condensation by 
NATHAN HASKELL DOLE 

/^IL BLAS, the only son of an old soldier, 
^-^ had reached the age of seventeen when 
his uncle, the village priest, who had taught 
him a little Latin, Greek, and logic, sent him 
oflf with forty ducats and a bad mule to 
study divinity at Salamanca. 

His adventures began inmiediately. At 
his first stop he was cheated out of his mule; 
as he was eating his dinner a wily flatterer 
mvited himself to be his guest and showed his 
gratitude by the good advice never to be 
taken in by praise. He had to pay an ex- 
orbitant reckoning and went on his way, 
"giving to as many devils as there are saints 
in the calendar, the parasite, the landlord, 
and the inn.'' 

He soon fell into the hands of bandits, who 
made him join them on their raids. In one 



of them they captured Dona Mencia, wife of 
the Marques de la Guardia, and brought her * 
to their cavern. Gil Bias pretended to be ill 
and escaped with the grateful lady. He was 
arrested as one of the bandits, and as he was 
wearing clothes recognized by one of their i 
victims, and his pockets were full of money, 
he was thrown into jail. After several weeks' 
imprisonment his innocence was established, 
but the jailer had robbed him of everything. 

At Burgos he sought out Dofla Mencia, 
who presented him with a hundred ducats ■ 
and a costly ring. 

He bought a pretentious outfit for twice its 
value and decided that instead of becoming a 
licentiate, "he would make his way in this 
world rather than think of the next." A 
second gift of a thousand ducats from Dona 
Mencia confirmed him in his resolve. 

He bought two mules and, hiring a servant, 
set forth for Madrid. His servant conspired 
with several rogues to make a fool of him. 
One of them, Camilla, pretending to be re- 
lated to Dona Mencia, invited him to hired 
lodgings as if to her own home, and there he 
was feasted and flattered. As a mark of 
special favor she exchanged her ruby ring, 
which she declared was worth three hundred 



224 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

pistoles, for his, and procured him an invita- 
tion to a great country-seat for hunting and 
fishing. 

But when he arose in the morning his 
servant, his two mules, his portmanteau, and 
Dofia Mencia's pretended relatives had van- 
ished. The ruby ring was a cheat. 

Fortunately he fell in with a boyhood 
friend, Fabricio, at Valladolid and by his 
advice became a servant to a clergjrman, the 
Canon Sedillo, at whose house he led an easy 
Ufe. The canon soon died, leavmg him his 
worthless library and the good fortune of be- 
coming assistant to his physician, the famous 
Doctor Sangrado. Under him Gil Bias 
became particularly proficient in his method 
of practice, which consisted of nothing but 
blood-letting and "drenchings of water." 
He declared that he made as many widows 
and orphans as the siege of Troy; one of his 
victims was the betrothed of a giant Bis- 
cayan, who threatened him with dire ven- 
geance, and he fled to Madrid, where he 
became valet to a mysterious and wealthy 
Don Bernardo, his only duty being to keep 
the wardrobe brushed and to tend door. 
But he happened to fall in with Rolando, 
captain of the brigands; and Don Bernardo, 



seeing him in such suspicious company, 
dismissed him with six ducats. 

From one reason or another he kept chang- 
ing employers; he served now a dissipated 
hidalgo, 'then an intriguing actress, then an 
aged libertine whose daughter, in gratitude 
for aiding her to win back her recreant lover, 
Don Luis Pacheco, gave him a hundred pis- 
toles, and, on her father's death, got him a 
place with still another aged roue, Don 
Gronzales, whose dressing operations, when 
he arose at noon, reminded him of the 
resurrection of Lazarus. 

Here again he acted as intermediary in a 
love-affair, but when he told his infatuated 
employer that he was being duped he was 
turned off, though given a recommendation 
to the Marquesa de Chaves, reputed the 
cleverest woman in Madrid, because she was 
as solemn as an owl and rarely spoke. Her 
salon, called "The Fashionable Institution 
for Literature, Taste, and Science," was the 
resort for the wits and notables of Madrid. 

Here again he had easy work, but, getting 
into trouble about a girl, was compelled to 
leave the city. On his way to Toledo he 
rescued a young nobleman, named Don 
Alfonso, from arrest. They became friends, 



226 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

and after Don Alfonso reached his home he 
and his father became Gil Bias's patrons, 
placing him as secretary to their relative, 
the Archbishop of Granada, who was in- 
ordinately vain and as broad as he was 
long. 

Gil Bias praised his sermons and was re- 
garded as a young man of excellent judgment 
until after the prelate's mind was affected by 
apoplexy and Ms homilies became discordant 
ravings. Gil Bias obeyed the archbishop's 
command to tell him if he fell short in his 
preaching and was ignominiously packed off. 
Reduced to extremities once more, he posed 
as the brother to a disreputable actress and 
thus seciu^d the position of secretary to a 
Portuguese grandee, the Marques de Mari- 
alva. The trick was discovered. He re- 
turned to Madrid, and after many amusing 
and not always creditable adventures was 
appointed under-secretary to the Duke of 
Lerma, prime minister to the king. His 
duties may be gaged by his comjnent, "One 
makes a merit of any dirty work in the service 
of the great." 

His experiences with the upper and the 
lower world, with actors, poets, libertines, 
physicians, bandits, adventurers, and hidal- 



GIL BLAS 227 

gos and their servants, had sharpened his 
wits, and his native ability and smattering of 
education gave him growing influence. He 
was courted, flattered, and bribed; his 
conceit and avarice became colossal. 

He declared that "a court had all the 
soporific virtues of Lethe in the case of poor 
relations" and confessed that "every trace 
of his former gay and generous temper had 



Pride came before a fall. Having been 
employed to procure a questionable mistress 
for the heir-apparent, he was arrested by 
the king's orders and thrown into the dun- 
geon of Segovia. The prince intervened, 
but he was exiled from the two Castiles. 
All his property was seized and his mercenary 
engagement to a wealthy jeweler's daughter 
was broken. 

Then his friend Don Alfonso, whom he had 
got appointed as governor of Valencia, 
presented him with a small estate near that 
city. 

On his way thither he stopped at his birth- 
place and found his uncle a mental wreck and 
his mother worn out in caring for his dying 
father. He gave his father a pompous 
funeral, and settled an annuity on his 



228 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

mother, but the townspeople were so indig- 
nant with him for his ne^ect of his family 
that they threatened to mob him. 

Glad to escape with his life, he reached 
Valencia, where he was received at his new 
home by seven or eight servants provided by 
Don Alfonso. He got rid of most of them 
and lived frugally, marrying Antonia, daugh- 
ter of his farmer, Don Basilio. But his 
idyllic happiness ended with the death of his 
wife in childbirth. 

Soon afterward the crown prince came 
to the throne and offered him a place of high 
responsibility. Gil Bias, who had learned 
wisdom, replied that "all he wanted was a 
good situation where there was no induce- 
ment to violate his conscience, and where the 
favors of his prince were not likely to be 
bartered for filthy lucre.'' 

He was made confidant to the prime 
minister, who intrusted him with the educa- 
tion of his iUegitimate son and heir. This 
brought him a title. 

After some years when the duke lost the 
king's favor, Gil Bias followed him into 
retirement, and on his death was remembered 
with a bequest of ten thousand pistoles. He 
returned to his beautiful estate, made a 



GIL BIAS 229 

second marriage, and lived, happy and re* 
spected, training his children wisely and 
confiding to his memoirs all his errors, crimes, 
joys, and sorrows, together with his opinions 
of literature, society, and the stage. His 
narrative is interspersed with long and 
fascinating stories related by various charac- 
ters whom he had met; these and his own 
adventures furnish a vivid picture of the 
romantic Spain of the seventeenth century. 
Gil Bias is one of the wisest and most 
amusing of romances, and though it is not 
free from the coarseness permitted at that 
time, vice is not depicted attractively and 
its teaching is generally moral. 



VOL. in. — 18 



READE 

/^HABLES READE, English dramatist and 
^ novelist, was horn ai Ipsden, Oxfordshire, on 
June 8, I8I4. 

Although it was his wish that the word *^dramar 
tist" should stand first in the description of his 
occupations, recorded on his tombstone, and in his 
aims as an author, was dramatist fvr^ and novelist 
afterward, ever having an eye far stage effect in 
scene and situation; yet it has been claimed that he 
was wrong in his own conception of his power as 
dramatist, as his plays were often failures, while his 
novels have endured the test of time. 

His first comedy, " The Ladies^ BatUe,^^ appeared 
at the Olympic Theater in 1851; hut his reputation 
as dramatist was made hy the two-act comedy, 
^^ Masks and Faces j^^ in which he collaborated with 
Tom Taylor. By (he advice of the actress, Laura 
Symons, he turned it into a prose story, which ap- 
peared in 185S as *^Peg WoffingtonJ* A little 
later *^Art" appeared, afterward known as *^ Nance 
OUfiMJ' 

Reade was assured of a reputation as a novelist 
when he published **Ifs Never Too Late to MendJ^ 



READE 



231' 



This is a novel which he wrote vnth the purpose of 
reforming ahuses in prison discipline, and the 
treatment of criminals. Five other novels followed 
in quick succession: "The Course of True Love 
Never Did Run Smooth," "Jack of AU Trades," 
' ' The A utobiography of a Thief, " " Love Me Little, 
Love Me Long," and "White Lies," dramatized as 
"The Double Marriage." Then appeared "The 
Cloister and the Hearth," relating the adventures of 
the father of Erasmus, a story of the fifteenth cen- 
tury. His next novel of note was "Hard Cash," a 
story of modem English life. 

Reade produced three elaboraie studies of charac- 
ter — "Griffith Gaunt," "A Terrible Temptation," 
and "A Simpleton." He introduced himself in\ 
"A Terrible Temptation" as Doctor Rolfe. 

He was an amateur of the violin, and among his I 
works is an essay on Cremona violins, which is en- 1 
titled "A Lost Art Revived." 

For some years Reade's health gradually failed. 
He died on the 11th of April, 1884, leaving behind 
him a complete novel, "A Perilous Secret," which 
showed no falling off in the art of weaving a complin -2 
caied plot and devising thrilling situ^ions. 



PEG WOFFINGTON 

By CHARLES READE 

Condensation by 
EDWARD H. CROSBY 

pEG WOFFINGTON stood before the 
^ mirror in her dressing-room at the Theater 
Royal, Covent Garden, London. She was 
alone with her thoughts and they were both 
serious and pleasant, if the play on her mobile 
features could be taken as a criterion. She 
was siunming up her eventful career from the 
time when but a child of eight, cold, ragged, 
and hungry, she had been found on the Des- 
mond Quay in Dublin by an actress who 
undertook her professional education, to the 
present moment, when, as the reigning actress 
of the British capital, she had the world at 
her feet. She was supreme in tragedy and 
captivating in comedy, and in private life 
brilliant as a conversationalist, with a wit as 
keen as it was deUghtful. 
And the reflection her glass threw back was 



PEG WOFFINGTON 

one of rare beauty. An oval face crowned by 
tresses which equaled the ebon of the raven's 
plumage, lustrous eyes in which the emotions 
constantly played, and a poise that nothing 
apparently could disturb. Yet there was a 
curious expression on her handsome features, 
a look which she had never before witnessed. 
For Peg WofBngton. for the first time in her 
life, was in love. 

She had many admirers and quite a few 
flirtations, but they had all been ephemeral, 
as Peg Wofiington could quickly detect idle 
flattery and the sycophancies of the jeunesse 
doree which hung about her shrine. She 
was a woman of the world, keen, suspicious, 
and cynical, and while she toyed with her 
gallants, her heart and soul were in her work. 
But one evening she noticed in a box a face 
new to the theater. He was a man evidently 
from the provinces, but he gazed at her with 
undisguised admiration. Night after night he 
was at his post, listening attentively to every 
word she spoke and with an unmistakable air , 
of respect. 

She waited, thinking like all the others he" 
would seek an interview, but as time went on ' 
and he made no attempt to bring about an 
acquaintance, Peg's curiosity was piqued and 



234 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

by guarded inquiries she learned that he was 
Ernest Vane^ a pountry gentleman of means 
and reputed a bachelor. One night, how- 
ever, Mr. Vane was brought to the green- 
room by Sir Charles Pomander, a man about 
town who had long but unsucce^ully sought 
to win Peg's favor. Miss Woflfington was 
not in the room when Mr. Vane first arrived. 
He quickly adapted himself to the novel 
surroundings and launched into a eulogy 
of Peg's personal charms and histrionic 
ability. 

During Mr. Vane's remarks Peg had en- 
tered the room and overheard her praises so 
eloquently sung, and, knowing that Mr. Vane 
was unaware of her presence, she was im- 
pressed with his sincerity. Then they were 
introduced and Mr. Vane was almost speech- 
less with admiration. AU that his imagina- 
tion had painted was more than realized. 
Her beauty, her intelligence, her gracious- 
ness, were overpowering and Mr. Vane, in 
his embarrassment, could only stammer a few 
commonplaces. Here indeed was a novelty 
and her ciuiosity turned to interest. 

She was still cautious and would treat her 
new-found friend with varying moods, some- 
times cordial and then again coldly, but all 



PEG WOFFINGTON 

the while she was learning more and more of 1 
the man who had come into her Ufe. 

As she stood before her mirror she was 
awaiting the arrival of Mr. Vane. They had 
become warm friends, much more on the 
part of Mr. Vane, who had openly declared 
his love and had sent her many tokens of his 
affection, which Peg had accepted, but with 
her pecuUar whim she had declined anything 
save some inexpensive gift, telling her lover 
that it was the sentiment which she desired, 
not the intrinsic value of the present. She 
had decided to reveal to Mr. Vane that she, 
in turn, loved him, but the old, suspicious 
feeling would not leave her. 

When they were alone together Peg placed 
her hands on Vane's shoulders and, gazing 
fixedly into his eyes, said: 

"Ernest, we actresses make good the old 
proverb 'many lovers, few friends,' but no 
one outside om" circle knows how much we 
need a friend. WiU you be one to me?" 

And Ernest promised faithfully that he , 
would, while life remained. 

Then she gave herself up to the intoxica- 
tion of the moment. With all her adulation 
Peg was lonely. There had been no one to 
whom she could go and open her heart with 



236 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

a sense of security, and when Vane poured 
into her willing ear his avowals of undying 
love and devotion, P^'s hungry soul drank 
in his words as the thirsty earth absorbs 
refreshing showers. She was supremely 
happy, more so than she had ever dared to 
be, and the thought almost frightened her as 
she built dreams for a bright future. 

Sir Charles Pomander did not at all relish 
the turn affairs had taken. He had planned 
many schemes to win Peg's affection, and 
when he witnessed the triumph of one he 
regarded as a rank outsider his love turned to 
hate. He endeavored insidiously to poison 
Vane's mind with stories of Peg Woflfington's 
past life, and on one occasion he was nearly 
successful. James Triplet, a hanger-on at 
Covent Garden, was recognized by Peg as 
one who had befriended her in the early days 
of poverty. Triplet was a playwright and 
scene-painter, and to give him assistance Peg 
offered him a commission to paint her por- 
trait. Peg's visits to Triplet's studio were 
told by Sir Charles to Vane, as evidences of 
Peg's faithlessness, but the falsity of the 
charges was soon proved and Vane's infatua- 
tion was stronger than ever. Sir Charles 
had almost abandoned hope of defeating his 



PEG WOFFINGTON 237 

rival until one day, when returning to London 
frona the country, he gave assistance to a 
woman whose coach had become disabled. 

The beauty of the lady so impressed Sir 
Charles that he sent his servant to leam her 
identity, and the man brought back word that 
she was Mrs. Ernest Vane. A deadly weapon 
was thus placed in Sir Charles's hands, but he 
refrained from making public his information 
until the proper moment. A banquet had 
been arranged by Mr. Vane in honor of Peg 
WoflBngton, and Sir Charles managed to have 
Mrs. Vane appear when the festivities were 
at their height. 

His scheme was successful and the effect 
of Mrs. Vane's advent was electric. Mr. 
Vane, not knowing that his wife was in town, 
was filled with consternation, but Peg's tact 
did not desert her even in this trying mo- 
ment and she introduced those present as 
members of the nobility. Mrs. Vane was 
not suspicious and accepted the situation in 
good faith, but Triplet, who had brought 
verses in honor of Miss Woffington and being 
unaware of Mrs. Vane's identity, revealed 
the true facts and the wife was heartbroken 
at her husband's inconstancy. 

As for Peg, she was furious at the deception 



238 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

placed upon her. She fully believed that 
Mr. Vane was free to woo her^ and then in a 
moment her dreams were rudely shattered 
and her faith in mankind destroyed. She 
determined to take desperate revenge. She 
would keep Vane at her side in spite of the 
wife; and then^ when he was firmly in her 
toils, she would publicly discard him. Filled 
with these thoughts, she went to Triplet's 
studio, where the portrait he had painted was 
to be exhibited. 

The first glance showed the picture to be a 
wretched failure and even Triplet acknowl- 
edged his defeat. But there was no time to 
lose, for the critics were already approaching 
the studio. Peg, with a sudden inspiration, 
cut the face from the portrait and, having 
arranged the draperies so that her body 
would be concealed, she placed her own 
features in the aperture. The comments of 
the connoisseurs were ludicrous, some declar- 
ing there was not the slightest resemblance 
to the original, others that the flesh tints 
were imperfect, and still others that the 
drawing was out of all proportions. When 
the opinions had been expressed. Peg came 
from behind the easel and expressed her 
views in true MUesian manner. 



PEG WOFFINGTON 239 

Peg remained after the others had departed 
and told Triplet of her intentions toward 
Mr. Vane. Unexpectedly Mrs. Vane knocked 
at the door of the studio. She had been 
followed by Sir Charles Pomander and had 
sought refuge from his attentions. Peg had 
no desire to meet Mrs. Vane, but therp was 
not sufficient time to escape, so onra^bre she 
went behind the easel and place JneTfafe in 
the portrait. Mrs. Vane, after explaining her 
presence, noticed the picture and exclaimed; 

"You are a great artist, Mr. Triplet; the 
Kkeness actually breathes. Oh, that she 
were here, instead of this wonderful image of 
her. I would speak to her. I am not wise 
or learned, but orators never pleaded as I 
would plead to her for my Ernest's heart." 

She paused for a moment, and then, 
addressing the picture, she continued: 

"Oh yes, you are beautiful, you are gifted, 
and the eyes of thousands wait on your every 
word and look. What wonder that he, ar- 
dent, refined, and genial, should lay his heart 
at your feet. I cannot take him from you, 
but, oh, be generous to the weak and give him 
back to me ! Give him back to me, beautiful, 
terrible woman and I will love you longer 
than men can love ! ' ' 



240 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

Suddenly she started back with a wild 
scream. 

"It is alive!" she cried, and, running to 
Triplet, hid her face on his shoulder. 

For Peg had been so affected by the piteous 
appeal of the heartbroken woman that with 
all her self-control she could not check the 
tears which coursed down her cheeks. Peg 
ordered Triplet to leave the room, and when 
the two women were alone Peg turned to 
Mrs. Vane and said, calmly: 

" I trust, madam, you will do me the justice 
to believe I did not know Mr. Vane was 
married? " 

"I am sure of it," replied Mrs. Vane. 
"You are as good as you are gifted." 

Peg then promised to so degrade herself in 
Vane's eyes that he would leave her in dis- 
gust, but to this plan Mrs. Vane refused to 
agree. Finally Peg arrayed herself in Mrs. 
Vane's cloak and hood, threw a note from 
the window to Sir Charles, who was waiting 
below, which she knew would bring that 
worthy into the room, and then despatched 
Triplet to sununon Mr. Vane to the studio, 
Mrs. Vane concealing herself in an adjoining 
apartment. Sir Charles responded to the 
summons inunediately, and in a moment was 



PEG WOFFINGTON 



241 I 



making violent love to Peg, whom he mistook 1 
for Mrs. Vane. 

In the height of a most impassioned scene ' 
Vane entered and made the same error as 
did Sir Charles. Swords were drawn, but 
Peg disclosed herself before matters became 
serious. The thought that his wife was be- 
loved by another produced such a shock to 
Mr. Vane that he realized he still loved her 
and the two departed together, leaving Peg 
with her unhappy thoughts. 

Peg Wofiington never recovered from this 4 
episode. She plunged once more into her i 
work, but life had lost all its interest. She 
did not remain long on the stage, but retired 
to private life and devoted herself to charity, 
Mr. and Mrs. Vane being her stanch friends 
while she Uved. Her grave in the httle 
churchyard of Teddington, England, is the 
Mecca of thousands who pay tribute to the 
memory of the actress and the woman. 



THACKERAY 

nnWICE in his later years did WiUiafn Make- 
-* peace Thackeray seek temporarily another 
career than (hat of avihorship. Shortly before 
writing ^^The Virginians^^ he tried unsuccesS" 
fvUy to capture a seai in Parliament. Politics had 
always attracted him^ although his temperament was 
wholly unsuited to popular demands. 

He was a radical, sympathizing wUh Richard 
Cohden in his arUv<om4aw fight. *^I would like 
to see aU men egual/^ he wrote in 1840, ''and this 
bloated aristocracy blasted to the wings of all winds J^ 
He was nevertheless absolutely opposed to any at- 
tempt on the part of the people to win their rights by 
force. His attitude is interesting in the light of to- 
day^s radicalism, as is also his firm advocacy of 
Ireland^ s right to have home rule. 

After finishing ^'The Virginians, ^^ Thackeray 
became the first editor of " Tf^ Comhill Magazine.'^ 
His own wide popularity practically insured the 
initial siuxess of the venture. Of the first number 
one hundred and twenty thousand copies were sold. 
The most distinguished writers of the day were at- 
tracted as contributors through the editor^ s prestige, 




WILLIAM MAKEPEACE THACKEKAY 



THACKERAY 243 

and the ^^ComhiU " furnished magazine-Teaders with 
better fiction and articles than can he found to-day in 
any successful English periodical. 

Although Thackeray was a good editor in many 
ways, he was handicapped hy too tender a heart. 
He could not refuse poems and artides, however 
uninspired and even maudlin, if the writers needed 
numey. So a few months UUer he gladly resigned 
his position and returned to novel-writing. 



THE VIRGINIANS 

By WILLIAM MAKEPEACE THACKERAY 

Condensation by 
SARA WARE BASSETT 

WIRGINIA in the days of Washington's 
^ early manhood; Virginia with its vast 
tobacco plantations sloping to the river^ its 
myriads of slaves^ its great estates where^ 
loyal to the king, the master was above all 
else a gentleman and a sportsman, and the 
mistress a lady who directed the affairs of 
her household with the imperiousness of a 
princess of the blood; a Virginia of stiff bro- 
cades, of hoops and powdered wigs; a land 
where hospitaUty ran free and good wine was 
never wanting— such is the setting chosen by 
Thackeray for his sequel to Henry Esmond^ 
the tale entitled The Virginians. 

It was a picturesque period in history, and 
the author of the novel was indeed daring to 
present to us in the first pages of his book 
George Washington, the young Colonial 



THE VIRGINIANS 245^ 

colonel, who comes hither in his coach from 
his adjoining estate to visit Madam Esmond, 
the daughter of our old friend Henry Es- 
mond, at her American home, " Castlewood," 
and there meet her nineteen-year-old twin 
sons, George Esmond Warrington and Harry 
Warrington. Hither, also, comes General 
Braddock, the English commander who ex- 
pects with the aid of his forces to bring about 
an end to the French and Indian wars; and 
in his company is Benjamin Franklin, the 
Philadelphia printer. 

Ah, Thackeray had courage to present to . 
us in the flesh these familiar celebrities! | 
But he does it delightfully. I 

We see George Washington, a frequent and 
welcome guest at "Castlewood," greeting 
the Widow Esmond with friendship so ardent 
that her sons, jealous of every attention 
paid their mother, mistake his gallantry for 
a tenderer sentiment and are on the point of 
challenging the colonel to a duel when they 
discover their error. Afterward George, the 
elder twin by the narrow margin of a half- 
hour, goes forth with Braddock and Wash- 
ington into the campaign that costs the 
English general his life and in which the 
king's troops are defeated by the French and 



246 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

Indians. From this disastrous pilgrimage 
Washington's yomig aid, George Esmond 
Warrington, fails to return, and great is the 
grief at '' Castlewood." Madam Esmond re- 
proaches Colonel Washington that he should 
come back unscathed when her son is missing. 
As for Harry, the loss of his elder brother so 
overwhelms him that it is deemed wise to 
send him on a sea voyage to England in 
the hope of diverting him from constantly 
mourning the twin he so devotedly loved. 

Hence we next behold Harry at the home 
of his English cousins at ''Castlewood,'' 
where, we regret to say, he at first receives 
but a scant welcome. My Lord Castlewood 
and the ladies would not have tolerated either 
Harry or his black servant Gumbo had not 
Aunt Bernstein, the Beatrix Esmond of 
Harry's grandfather's day, been a guest at 
the house. Although the baroness is now old 
and has lost her beauty, she has not lost her 
money, and because the impoverished Cas- 
tlewoods are eager to inherit the latter they 
dare not oppose her. She will have Harry 
Warrington welcomed to the home of his 
ancestors. 

Therefore the young American is granted 
a tardy invitation to the family estate to 



THE VIRGINIANS 247 

which his grandfather, Henry Esmond, al- 
though the rightful heir, waived all claims 
before emigrating to Virginia. 

Harry is an ingratiating young fellow and 
his aunt Bernstein promptly falls in love 
with him, urging him to go with her to Tun- 
bridge Wells, a fashionable resort whither she 
is bound. The shrewd old woman is in- 
sistent in her demand, for she sees that the 
unsophisticated lad has already developed a 
passion for the Right Honorable Maria Es- 
mond, my Lord Castlewood's sister, and a 
woman more than twice Harry's age. 

The boy himself realizes his mistake, but 
he is an Esmond and a Virginian, and for 
such there is no drawing back. 

Madam Bernstein is not so scrupulous, 
however. 

Harry is young and, as his black servant 
shamelessly asserts, royally rich. 

He can do better for himself and the family 
than throw himself away on a scheming 
woman who is penniless and who has none 
too good a reputation. Indeed, there is 
scarcely one Castlewood whose past would 
bear inspection. Even the escutcheon of 
the baroness herself is dingy and tarnished. 
She is nevertheless kind-hearted and sin- 



248 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

cerely fond of Harry, and, therefore, with 
coach and postilions and outriders and 
trunks and servants, she bears him and his 
Lady Maria away with her to Tunbridge 
Wells. 

On the journey Harry is thrown from his 
horse, and, his shoulder being injured, he is 
carried into the nearest house, which proves 
to be the home of Colonel Lambert, whose 
wife was an old school friend of Harry's 
mother. Of course the Lamberts cannot do 
enough for the boy. Theo and Hetty, the 
charming daughters of the family, are never 
tired waiting on him; and when he rides 
away to join his aunt four days later he has 
formed a strong friendship with the Lambert 
family. Already the memory of the fair 
Maria is a bit dimmed. 

Ah, when he reaches Tunbridge Wells 
what a little world of fashion and corruption 
it is! Our Virginian has never seen any- 
thing of the like before. Nor does he see it 
now with discerning eye. The little painted 
dancer whom the Earl of March has in his 
company must surely be as beautiful as she 
looks; and the men of rank with their 
gaming and drinking are gentlemen aU, in 
simple Harry's estimation. 



THE VIRGINIANS 249 

The fame of the Virginian has preceded 
him. 

The tales told of his wealth have rolled up 
until he has become a veritable prince with 
gold imcounted, numberless acres of land, 
slaves, tobacco-fields — diamond-mines if you 
will. As Aunt Bernstein has spread some of 
these tidings, she begs her nephew not to 
disgrace her by contradicting them, and 
therefore what can he do? There is no choice 
but to live the rich Virginian, spend money 
freely, gamble as does all the world of 
fashion, and these things Harry Esmond 
Warrington proceeds to do. 

It is not a difficult r61e to play. 

All Tunbridge is at his feet. 

Jewelers, drapers, dancing-masters wait 
on him. 

He gambles and wins— continues to gamble 
and win. 

He becomes known as the "Fortunate 
Youth." 

Everything he touches turns to money. 

But the lad does not become a profligate; 
there is too fine stuff in him. He is foolish, 
mayhap; but he is ever an Esmond and a 
Virginian. Men Uke him because he is 
honest; women because he is chivalrous. 



250 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

Agam and again Aunt Bernstein tries to 
break off his engagement to Maria. She 
even appeals to that lady herself. But 
Maria will not give up her treasure. A rich 
and handsome young husband is no easy 
prize to win. She has Harry's word and she 
will hold him to it. 

The baroness is in despair. She will send 
Maria home and Harry to London on some 
trumped-up errand or other. 

The boy has never seen London, and what 
a realm of enchantment it is ! The fireworks 
atVauxhall; the theater where Garrick plays 
to royalty; Doctor Johnson, Sir J6shua Rey- 
nolds, and the wits of the day whom one 
meets at White's or the Cocoa-Tree ! What is 
Tunbridge Wells after seeing London ! Harry 
takes lodgings— luxurious lodgings, for must 
he not maintain the dignity of his family? 
And he goes to Whitens in his chair, where the 
gay macaronis are only too ready to welcome 
him and gamble the gold from out his pocket. 
To London, too, come the Lamberts, and with 
them General Wolfe, whom Harry has already 
met at Tunbridge! Everybo^ comes to 
London, and an alluring career our Vir- 
ginian leads there. Then suddenly his luck 
changes. 



THE VIRGINIANS 251 

One evening he loses at White's; he loses a 
second evening, and a third. He plays with^ 
my Lord Castlewood (my lord's honor at 
cards might be challenged) and all his hoard 
of wealth is swept away. Creditors appear. 
Tradesmen who were servile but a day or two 
before now become insolent. Presently on 
returning from an evening party Harry j 
Warrington is arrested for debt and led away J 
to Chancery Lane. 

It is incredible! The misfortune is, how-j 
ever, merely temporary, he tells himself.! 
Some one of the many friends who have 
shared his money and drunk his wine will, of 
course, come forward and go bail for him. 
He writes to first one and then another. Not 
one of them will aid him. The baroness 
sends a proposal that if he will give up his 
marriage to Lady Maria she will pay his 
debts and release him from his present em- 
barrassing dilemma. This Harry refuses to 
do. Has not Maria but a moment before 
come to him, loyally offering to give him her 
jewelry and trinkets? Keen-eyed woman of 
the world that she is, Maria has not mis- 
calculated the effect of this dramatic action. 
It binds Harry to her more securely than 
ever. 



252 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

It is just as Colonel Lambert and Greneral 
Wolfe are coming to the boy's aid that a 
miracle occurs. 

Into the jail stalks George Esmond War- 
rington, the beloved brother who was sup- 
posed to have been killed two years before. 
He quickly discharges Harry's indebtedness 
and the two go away together, happy as 
children. 

But what a revolution the appearance of 
this elder brother makes in society's attitude 
toward poor Harry! He is no longer the 
favored child of fortune. Debts are nothing 
— everybody has those. Nor is the jail a 
disgr Je. Many a darUng of fashion has 
passed a night there. But to be a younger 
son! Society turns up its nose. Accord- 
ingly it is George Esmond Warrington who 
now becomes the idol, while Harry is thrust 
into the background. Acquaintances pass 
him by. What right had the wretch to mas- 
querade as heir to the Esmond estates? The 
story of his brother's rescue from death is a 
thin one. No doubt the scapegrace knew all 
along that George was alive. 

Had there not been the deepest and most 
enduring affection between the twins such a 
state of affairs might perhaps have created a 




This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at |http : //books . google . com/ 



l)'*'J3.\B.So 




Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



Digitized 



by Google 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS 
CONDENSED 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 




GEORGE ELIOT 



Digitized by LaOOQ IC 



One Hundred 
Best Novels Condensed 

Edited By 

EDWIN A. GROZIER 

Assisted by 
CHARLES E L. WINGATE and CHARLES H. LINCOLN 

Fully Illustrated 

IN FOUR VOLUMES 
VOLUME THREE 




HARPER & BROTHERS, PUBLISHERS 

NEW YORK AND LONDON 
MCMXX 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 






iRD COL 



. HARVARD COLLEGE LIBITARY 

TT GIFT OF 

CHARLES WiLLiAM ELIOT 



"Vlerv: ai i^sil. 



V' 



Qmb Hundsbd Bnr Novels Comdbnskd 



^ 

^ 



Copyright ipxse xgao, by the Post Publtthinc Co. (The Bostoa Pott) *0^ 

Copsrright in the United Kingdom* the Dominions, its Colonies ^ 

and dependendest under the Copyright Act, by The V Jv 

Post PuUisUng Co.. Boston Mass., U. S. A. ,^ ^ . 

AD rights reserved. V . v 
o-u ^^ 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



J. 



TABLE OP CONTENTS 
VOLUME m 

ADAM BEDE Gbobgb Euot 3 

CondeDBation by Ellbbt Sedgwick, 
Editor of The AUaniic Monthly 

TESS OF THE DTRBERVILLES . Thomas Habdt 
CbndeDBation by Ruth MgCall 

DON QUIXOTE .... Migxtel db GsRVAimBS 24 
GondeDsation by Nathan HAWKiCTJi Doua 
Author of the PUgrirM 

EAST LYNNE ...... Mas. Hsnbt Wood 34 

Condenaation by Rttth H. Frost 

THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO. Albxakdbs 

DuiiAB, Sb 44 

GondeDsation by Alfred S. Clark 

PAUL AND VIRGINIA. Bbrnardin db Saimt-Pibrrb 54 
Condensation by Irvinq Bacheller 

TOM BROWN'S SCHOOL DAYS . Thomas Hughes d4 
Condensation by Prof. William Fenwick Harris 

WAVERLEY Sir Walter Scott 74 

Condensation by Henry T. Schnittkind, Ph.D., 
Editor of The Stratford Journal 

DOMBEY & SON Charlbs Dickens 83 

Condensation by Carolinb Ticknor, 

Author of Hawthorne and hie PvJblUiher^ Poe^a 

Hdeny etc. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



/ 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

PAGS 

ROMOLA Geobob Euot 93 

Gondeiisation by Pbof. William Fenwick Habbis 

THE LEGEND OF SLEEPY HOLLOW. WAsraNO-T 

TON LEtYING 104 

Condensation by Mabel Hebbebt Ubneb, 
Author of The Married Life of Hden and Wcarren 

THE LAST OF THE MOHICANS. James Fenimobb 

COOFEB 115 

Condensation by Thomas D. Connolly 

THE WRECK OF THE "GROSVENOR." W. Clabk 

Russell 125 

Condensation by Jabcbs B. Connolly 

THE RIGHT OF WAY . . Sib Gilbebt Pabkeb 135 
Condensation by Helen B. Dole, 
Translator of Hugo's Qvaire'Vingt^Treizef etc. 

CONISTON Winston Chubchill 145 

Condensation by Hon. Samuel W. McCall, 
Former United States Representative and War 
Governor of Massachusetts 

FAR FROM THE MADDING CROWD. Thomas 

Habdy 155 

Condensation by Alfbbd S. Clabx ^ 

•^THE WOMAN IN WHITE . . Wilkib Collins 164 
Condensation by Alice Fox Prrrs 

THE DEEMSTER Hall Cainb 173 

Condensation by Caboline Ticknob 

WATERLOO .... MM. Ebckmann-Chatbian 183 
Condensation by Charles E. L. Wingate 

HYPATIA Chables Kingsley 194 

Condensation by Pbof. William Fenwick Habbis 

KIDNAPPED . . . Robebt Louis Stevenson 203 
Condensation by James B. Connolly 

OLIVER TWIST Chables Dickens 213 

Condensation by Rev. Howabd LaField, 
Former Dean of St. John's Military Academy 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

PAOB 

GIL BLAS Alain RenA lb Sags 222 

Condensation by Nathan Habkell Dolb 

PEG WOFFINGTON .... Chablis Rbadb 232 
Condensation by Edwabd H. Cbobbt, 
Playwright and Dramatic Critic of The Botion Post 

THE VIRGINIANS. William Makepeace Thacksrat 244 
Condensation by Saba Wabb Basbbtt 



t ^ 



. ^ 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ILLUSTRATIONS 

Geobob Eliot FnmtiipUet 

Thomas Habdt Fadnopoffell 

Miguel db Cervantes '' 22 

Mrs. Henry Wood " 32 

Alexandre Duicas, Sr. *' 42 

Saint-Pierre ** 52 

Thomas Hughes " 62 

Sir Walter Scott " 72 

Charles Dickens " 82 

George Eliot " 91 

Washington Irving " 102 

James Fenimorb Cooper " 113 

W. Clark Russell '* 123 

Sir Gilbert Parker " 133 

Winston Churchill " 143 

Thomas Hardt . , '' 153 

WiLKiE Collins " 163 

Hall Caine " 171 

Erckmann-Chatrian '' 181 

Charles Kingslbt " 192 

Robert Louis Stevenson '* 201 

Charles Dickens " 211 

Alain RenA Le Sage " 220 

Charles Reads " 230 

WiLUAM Makepeace Thackeray ... '* 242 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS 
CONDENSED 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



GEORGE ELIOT 

f^EORGE ELIOT was (he pen name of the 
^^ famous English writer , Mary Ann {or 
Marian) Evans. She was horn in 1819 at Arbury 
Farm in Warwickshire and died at Chelsea, De- 
cefniber g, 1880. Her father, Robert Evans, was the 
agent of Mr. Francis Newdgate, and the first twenty- 
one years of the novelist^s life were spent on (he 
Arbury estate. At her mother's death, while Miss 
Evans was stiU in her teens, she became herfather^s 
housekeeper and pursued her studies away from 
school and classes. AU through her youth she was 
somewhat subdued by a very strict religious training, 
and she was a great reader of religious and philo- 
sophical subjects, and in later years wrote of them 
also. 

In I84I the family moved to Coventry, and it was 
there that Miss Evans made the acquaintance of Mr. 
and Mrs. Charles Bray, and Mr. Charles HenneJl, 
who became her stanch friends. Both Mr. Bray 
and Mr. HenneJl v)ere men of literary tastes; the 
latter had, just before this time, published *^An 

Enquiry Concerning the Origin of Christianity.'^ 
vol*, in. — 1 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



2 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

Mi88 Evanses ideas and opiniona were much affected 
by the line of thought (hie work contained. 

In 1861 she became the assistani editor of the 
*^ Westminster Review J^ She made several notable 
contributions to the "RevieWy*^ and during the time 
of her connection with it made the acquaintance of 
many distinguished authors of that period; among 
ihemj Herbert Spencer, Carlyle, Harriet Martineau, 
Francis Newman^ and George Henry Lewes. Her 
friendship vrith Mr. Lewes led to a closer relation-' 
ship, which she regarded as a marriage, but which 
caused much criticism among her friends. 

Miss Evans first attempted the writing of fuHon 
in 1866, and published in ** Blackwood^ s Magazine^* 
the first of the '' Scenes of Clerical Life.^* Although 
she received much encouragement from private 
sources, notably Charles Dickens, the critics were 
rather nonrcommittal. Then in 1859 Miss Evans 
wrote and published what in the judgment of many 
is her masterpiece, **Adam Bede.^* It has been said 
that in the character of Adam Beds she drew a por- 
trait of her father; and certainly Dinah Morris, 
the heroine of the story, was one of her own favorite 
characters. There followed *'The Mill on the 
Fhss,'' ''SHas Mamer,'' and ''Felix HoU.'' In 
the latter work she aired her views on the svt^edt of 
Radicalism. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ADAM BEDE 

By GEORGE ELIOT 

Condensation by 
ELLERY SEDGWICK 

'T' HAT last year of the eighteenth century 
-*• Hayslope was a pleasant neighborhood to 
live in. It was far enough away from the 
noise of "Boney^s*' battles to sleep in peace. 
Men chatted of crops and rents, and listened 
to the gossip of women folk regarding Dinah 
Morris of Snowfidd, Mrs. Poyser's own 
niece, who had turned "Methody" preacher 
and would stand right before men on the 
village green, talking to them of the com- 
fort they could find in their friend, Jesus 
Christ. 

And, worse still, Dinah was so attractive 
and so gravely loving that the men, and 
women, too, gladly listened to her. .Big 
Adam Bede, the carpenter, would have liked 
to see more of her, had he eyes for any one 
except old Poyser's niece, Hetty Sorrel. As 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



4 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

for Hetty y she had no thought for Adam; 
Captain Arthur Donnithome, heir of the 
estate, had whispered too many things in her 
pretty ear. 

It was natural enough. There, in her 
aunt's white dairy, rounding her dimpled 
arm to lift a poimd of butter out of the scale, 
Hetty had the beauty of a fluffy kitten. Her 
large, dark eyes had a soft roguishness, and 
her curly hair, pushed away under her cap, 
stole back in delicate rings on her forehead. 
Of course, the dashing captain had no foolish 
ideas about marriage, but then, as he bent 
over her shoulder, he was soldier enough to 
feel his head turn very fast. He had no wish 
to harm her, you may be sure of that, for he 
had great pride in the Donnithome estate, 
and it is pleasant for a rich young man to be 
liked and admired. 

One August evening Adam walked home- 
ward through a grove of grand beeches, the 
glory of the estate. As carpenter and woods- 
man, he delighted in fine trees, and paused to 
look at a huge beech which stood at the 
turning before the grove ended in an arch- 
way of boughs. 

All his life he remembered that moment, 
for there, not twenty yards away, stood two 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ADAM BEDS 5 

figures, close; with clasped hands. They 
started. The girl hurried away, while Arthur 
Donnithome walked slowly forward. He 
was flushed and excited, but reassured him- 
self by remembering that Adam was a sen- 
sible person, not likely to babble. That the 
big, sober carpenter loved Hetty^Arthur had 
no idea. 

"Well, Adam," said Arthur, carelessly, 
"youVe been looking at the fine old beeches, 
eh? I overtook pretty Hetty Sorrel as I 
was going to my old lodge in the woods; so 
I took her to the gate, and asked for a kiss 
for my pains. Good night." 

Adam dared not move lest he spring on 
Arthur like a tiger. 

" Stop a bit," he said in a hard, peremptory 
voice. 

"What do you mean?" Arthur felt his 
temper rising. 

"I mean that, instead of the honorable 
man weVe aU believed you, you're a selfish 
scoundrel!" 

Arthur found it hard to control himself. 

"Well, Adam, perhaps I have gone too far 
in taking notice of the pretty little thing and 
stealing a few kisses. You're such a grave 
fellow you don't understand temptations. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



6 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

Let's say no more. The whole thing will 
soon be forgotten." 

*'No, by God/' said Adam, "it 'U not be 
soon forgot, as youVe come in between her 
and me when she might have loved me. 
It '11 not be soon forgot, as you've robbed me 
of my happiness when I thought you my 
best friend. You're a coward and a scoun- 
drel, and I despise you." 

The color rushed back to Arthur's face. 
He dealt a lightning blow which sent Adam 
staggering back, but the delicate-handed 
gentleman was no match for the workman's 
great strength. After a fierce struggle Ar- 
thur fell motionless, while Adam, in sudden 
revulsion of feeling, knelt over him like an 
image of despair gazing on death. 

To his intense relief, Arthur gradually re- 
vived. Adam got him to his feet, supported 
him to the little cabin, and laid him on a 
couch. Then he spoke out. 

"I don't forget what's owing to you as a 
gentleman, but in this thing we are man to 
man. Either tell me she can never be my 
wife — ^tell me you're lying when you say you 
haven't harmed her — or else write her a 
letter, telling her the truth that you won't 
see her again." 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ADAM BEDE 7 

Arthur stru^ed^ suffered, promised, and 
Adam, half comforted, left, not knowmg that 
there, in the waste-basket, hastily stuffed 
under the papers, lay a woman's silk kerchief. 

When Hetty read Arthur's letter she gave 
way to despair. Then, by one of those con- 
vulsive, motiveless actions by which the 
wretched leap from temporary sorrow to life- 
long misery, she determined to marry Adam. 
The big carpenter was in the seventh heaven, 
Hetty fitful and depressed. For family 
reasons, the marriage could not be hastened, 
and as the months passed she determined at 
any cost to seek out Arthur, whose regiment 
was at Windsor. Telling her imcle she was 
going to Snowfield to see Dinah for a little 
change of scene before her marriage, she 
started out, ignorant of the country, panic- 
stricken, and forlorn, eager to shun every 
familiar face, longing only to feel again the 
protection of her lover's arms. 

On Arthur, meanwhile, life seemed again 
to smile. After rejoining his regiment, his 
sharpest regrets for Hetty began to lose their 
sting. Soon he was transferred to Ireland, 
and there learned that by his grandfather's 
death he was lord of the manor. Home he 
came, fast as chaise and postboy could drive, 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



8 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

home to dear old Hayslope sleeping on the 
hill, where he was to Hve his life, married to 
some lovely lady, respected and appreciated 
by his tenants. A pile of letters awaited 
him. He opened the first, and, with a violent 
convulsion shaking his whole frame, read the 
words, ^^ Hetty Sorrel is in pri&on for the 
crime of child murder^ 

Clutching the letter, Arthur rushed from 
the room like a himted man, and, springing 
to the saddle of a waiting horse, set off at a 
gaUop. 

That very evening a young woman knocked 
at the door of the village jail. There was 
about her a deep, concentrated calmness 
which induced the jailer to grant her request 
to visit the condemned cell. As the heavy 
door closed behind her, she hesitated before 
the pallet bed. 

"Hetty, Dinah is come to you." 

Slowly, very slowly, Hetty rose and was 
clasped in Dinah's arms. 

*'You won't leave me, Dinah?" 

"No, Hetty," whispered Dmah. "I'U 
stay with you to the last. But, Hetty, there 
is some one else in this cell." 

"Who?" whispered Hetty, frightened. 

" Some one who has been with you all your 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ADAM BEDE 9 

hours of sin and trouble. It makes no 
difference, Hetty, whether we live or die. 
We are in the presence of God. Confess the 
sin you have committed against your Heav- 
enly Father. Let us kneel together. He is 
here." 

There in the silence and darkness Hetty, 
who through her trial had sat like a stone 
image, poured forth her pitiful story. 

"It was because I was so miserable, 
Dinah. I didnH know where to go. I tried 
to kill myself, and I couldn't. I went to 
Windsor to find him. He was gone, and I 
didn't know what to do. I daren't go home 
again. Then the baby was bom. ... I 
did do it, Dinah. I buried it in the wood — 
the little baby. It cried. ... I heard it all 
night — ^and I went back. And then I thought 
I would go home, and aU of a sudden I saw 
a hole under a nut-tree, and it darted over 
me like lightning I'd lay the baby there and 
cover it with grass and chips. I couldn't 
cover it quite up, Dinah. I thought some- 
body'd come and take care of it. Dinah, do 
you think God will take away that cry and 
the place in the wood, now that I've told 
everything?" 

Let us pray, poor sinner," breathed 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



10 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

Dinah. "Let us pray to the God of All 
Mercy." 

Comforter and comforted, their prayer was 
heard. Two days later, in the very shadow 
of the scaffold, Arthur Donnithome brought 
a hard-won reprieve. 

Though spared from death, Hetty was 
sentenced to transportation. Dinah returned 
to her works of mercy at Snowfield. In re- 
morse and shame, Arthur Donnithome went 
back to the army, while Adam Bede, squaring 
his shoulders to the world, turned again to 
his work-bench. 

For him all the joy of life seemed over, and 
never would he have thought of seeking it 
again had not his mother dropped into his 
heart one day the name of Dinah. Long and 
soberly he thought, and then he went to 
find her. 






Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 




THOMAS HARDY 



Digitized by LaOOQ IC 



HARDY 

n^HOMAS HARDY, probably (he most search- 
^ ing and profound novelist of our own time, was 
horn June 2, 1840, in Dorsetshire, England. In 
his youth he read much and cherished the dream of 
becoming a poet, but he studied and practised archir 
tedure as assistant to a London architect, winning a 
prize for design. The fine proportion and solidity 
of structure in his novels were probably somewhat 
due to his architectural training. 

For five years he assiduously practised writing 
poetry, but when he was twenty-^even he turned 
definitely to fiction. His first story was accepted 
two years later, but upon the advice of George Mere-- 
diih he decided not to publish it. His first novel, 
^^Desperate Remedies,^^ appeared in 1871. 

During the next twerUy-five years he published 
fourteen novels and two volumes of short stories. 

''Under the Greenwood Tree'' [l872) he ''never 
surpassed in happy and delicate perfection of arf 
In this and his next novel, "A Pair of Blue Eyes'' 
{187S), begins to show itself that strain of deep 
irony which is so potent throughout Hardy's 
writings. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



12 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

^^ Far from the Madding Crowd^* (1874) w?a« his 
first popular siuxess. In it is revealed Hardy's sur 
pert power of depicting nature as symbolic hack- 
ground for his characters^ an organic part of the 
action cf his story. This was the earliest of what he 
called his novels of character and environment, 
which included " The Return of the Native,'' " Tess 
of ihe D'Urbervilles," his masterpiece, and ^^Jude 
the Obscure." Not until he toas fifty-eight years 
old was his first volume of verse published, and he 
was sixty-four when the first part of his stupendous 
epic poem, ^'The Dynasts," startled the literary 
world. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



TESS 
OF THE D'URBERVILLES 

By THOMAS HARDY 

Condensation by 
RXJTH McCALL 

' O^^^ morning, Sir John/'^THT be- 
^^ wilderment of a dusty, threadbare 
peddler thus addressed was speedily con- 
verted into a majestic pride upon learning 
that he, John Durbeyfield of Marlott, was 
actually a lineal descendant of the noble 
family of D'Urberville. 

And no sooner had Joan, his handsome, 
shallow-minded wife, the easy-going mother 
of his many children, heard of her exalted 
estate than her romantic soul began secretly 
to devise a brilliant and fitting alliance for 
her beautiful young daughter. To which 
end Tess was artfully prevailed upon to seek 
work in a wealthy upstart family of the same 
illustrious name. 
And so the innocent child, whose single- 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



14 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

minded desire was to mend the broken f ort- 
mies of her family, became poultrykeeper 
for a blind old woman of spurious title and 
ultimate prey for her son, a dissolute wretch, 
young Alec D'Urberville. After a while 
back to Marlott came the disillusioned girl, 
where she lived in a gray seclusion until her 
wizened little baby's death. 

But after several bitter years of heart- 
searching, Tess determined to leave home 
again — ^this time to be dairymaid at Tal- 
bothays, a large, fertile farm in the valley of 
the Great Dairies. And here, too, was a 
young man, the yoimgest son of a stem and 
zealous divine of the old school. Angel 
Clare had sadly disappointed his father, first 
by nonconformist views and then by sincere 
scruples against taking orders. So now, in 
process of becoming gentleman farmer, he 
was specializing at various farms. Cult- 
ured, idealistic, sympathetic, he seemed to 
Tess a demigod, and though she had sworn 
herself to celibacy, the enforced propinquity 
ripened into intimacy and drifted into love. 
Together they went afield in the wondrous 
dewy dawns and the warm siunmer after- 
noons found them making butter and cheese 
in the cool, white dairy-house. The birds 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



TESS OF THE D'URBERVILLES 15 

sang for them and for them the stars shone, 
and the whole verdant valley, teemmg with 
richness and increase, gave up its odorous 
vapors. Young, happy, pagan-hearted, the 
universe was theirs. Her quick mind grew 
in contact with his, and her warm, rich voice 
lost its coimtry speech and unconsciously 
adopted his cultured accents. 

Tess's specter loomed but vaguely now, 
until love's honest declaration brought her to 
poignant realization of her situation in this 
man-made world. But all withdrawals were 
overcome by Clare's gentle insistence; all 
attempts at revelation were lightly thwarted. 
Finally, within a week of the wedding-day 
which she had reluctantly set, her resolution 
takes shape in writing — ^a four-page con- 
fession is breathlessly thrust under his door. 
Ironically concealed under the carpet it lies 
until Tess, with a sudden late intuition on 
her wedding mom, discovers its hiding-place 
and tears it up. In a lumbering old relic of 
coach days (symbolic of an ancient D'Urber- 
viUe legend of crime) Tess and Angel are 
carried to church, and upon their final 
departure a white cock crows thrice. "An 
afternoon crow,'' and the dairy folk shake 
their heads at the evil omen. 

VOL. m. — 2 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



16 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

To an old f arm-hoiise — a derelict of an an- 
cient D'Urberville mansion — ^in ready range 
of a model mill, Clare, with a sense of the 
practical and the romantic, takes his lovely 
bride. From the paneled wall outside her 
door two old D'Urberville portraits gleam 
evilly and Clare and Tess shiver as they trace 
a subtle likeness to her own in the malignant 
yet noble features. Before the glowing fire 
the adoring bridegroom, his wife's hand 
clasped in his, tells the story of his one aber- 
ration, of his forty-eight hours' dissipation 
with a Scarlet Woman, and confidently 
craves her pardon, which Tess is only too 
delighted to grant; and, with the fiirst real 
gleam of hope, unfolds her own sad story 

The wanton action of a man of maturity — 
the deceived innocence of an ignorant child! 
And yet, the man cannot forgive the woman! 
All the rigid rule of his forebears, all the 
domination of an unjust social order, grip 
him. Angel Clare, the prophet of emanci- 
pation, no longer exists. For several days 
they lead a formal, isolated existence. Tess, 
whose sole wish is to please her idol, ac- 
quiesces in his attitude, and, after a first 
wild outburst at the injustice, does nothing 
to exonerate herself, and her one chance for 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



TESS OF THE D'URBERVILLES 17 

reinstatement is blighted by the mocking 
witness of the vindictive portraits. No 
chaste-minded, imsophisticated peasant maid 
shci but the last dregs of a decadent stock! 
A separation, temporary at least, is decided 
upon, and while Clare rages afar, Tess again 
creeps home. Joan, after the first bitter 
reproaches for the mad disobedience of her 
repeated injunctions of secrecy, treats the 
aflfair with her usual fatalistic light-hearted- 
ness; but the harsh words of the father in a 
drunken moment of excessive ancestral pride 
cause a dignified departure with the con- 
ciliatory donation of half her means of sub- 
sistence and the intimation that she is 
rejoining her husband. 

Determined, however, to make no appeal 
toClare's family, Tess easily finds smnmer 
employment among the farms; but with the 
coming of winter and too lavish contribu- 
tions to her family^s support, privation stares 
her in the face. Day after day she wanders 
on until at length on the high, chalky table- 
lands, in a great drab field of desolation, she 
finds the meanest, most arduous of tasks 
rendered tenfold difficult by a churlish boor 
of an employer in all the rancor of an ancient 
grudge against her. In the stinging rain 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



18 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

and the chilling snow she toils unceasingly, 
uncomplainingly, living wholly in the hope 
of her husband's return. Songs that he 
loved she practises, the sweet, gay notes 
contrasting sadly with her tragic lips and 
great, sorrowing eyes. At length, distraught 
by the continued silence, she bravely decides 
to seek news of him from his parents, and 
walks the long, tremulous miles to Enuninster 
Vicarage. Of rare spiritual as well as phys- 
ical endowments, she would have undoubt- 
edly received a welcome at the hands of the 
benevolent old clergyman and his wife, but 
an empty house reverberates to her knocking, 
and while she unobtrusively awaits their 
return from church she overhears a wayside 
conversation between Angel's two exemplary 
brothers that sends her homeward with 
rended heart. 

The voice of a '^ranter" triumphantly 
consigning a bamf ul of rustics to eternal dam- 
nation caused Tess to pause a moment in a 
doorway, and there on a platform of corn- 
bags, in sanctimonious side-whiskers and 
semi-clerical blacks, stood Alec D'UrberviUe. 
Animalism had yielded to fanaticism and the 
bold, roving eye now gleamed with a fero- 
cious righteousness. As she passed on down 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



TESS OF THE D'URBERVILLES 19 

the lane he came after her, implormg forgive- 
ness and offering redemption. Repulse after 
repulse failed to deter Alec, who persisted 
day by day, at first with a marriage license 
and holy words, and then, his former passion 
uncontrollably revived by Tess's compelling 
beauty, his new-found religion dropped from 
him like a cloak, the convert disappeared, and 
all the arts of man and devil were employed 
to ensnare the girl. And poor, hopeless Tess, 
grindmg on under a benumbing stram, was 
in more danger than her scorn of the man 
could realize. Finally her father's death, 
resulting in the eviction of her family from 
their home, precipitates Tess's doom, and as 
a last desperate reparation to her helpless 
mother and sisters she yields, with a fatalistic 
calm, to the inevitable. 

To Sandboume, a gay watering-place, a 
melancholy specter of a man, wasted by ill- 
ness and regret, comes in search of his lost 
bride, and in a fashionable boarding-house 
Clare finds Tess and learns the agonizing 
truth. Just beyond the town she overtook 
him, her eyes wild and trancelike, her whole 
body as if bereft of soul and will. "I have 
killed him ... he taunted me ... he called 
you by a foul name. ... I owed it to you 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



20 ONE HUNDRED BEST N0VEI5 CONDENSED 

and I owed it to myself. ... It came to me 
as a shining light that I should get you back 
that way." 

With a final realization of the inmaensity 
of her love and the piteous plight it had 
brought upon her, Clare held out tender, pro- 
tecting arms, and together they wandered 
through the untrodden ways like two chil- 
dren — ^the world and its retribution quite 
forgot. 

For five days they continued in this idyllic 
state, and on the sixth night Tess half jest- 
ingly claimed sanctuary among the conspicu- 
ous ruins of the ancient pagan temple to the 
sun at Stonehenge. With the dawn came the 
guardians of the law, looming dark against 
the silvery l^orizon. In a grim, inexorable 
circle they waited until the sun's level rays, 
relentlessly reminiscent of a bygone sacri- 
ficial day, fell full upon another victim, and 
Tess, deserted by all the gods, awoke. 
Quietly she faced her captors. " I am ready," 
she said. 

Eight metallic strokes shiver the morning 
air and from a near-by hill a stricken figure 
rivets involuntary eyes on the flag-staff of a 
sullen cage of a building. For Angel the 
prison where Tess is confined has at this 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



TESS OF THE D*URBERVILLES 21 

fatal hour a deadly and significant fascina- 
tion. Slowly, sileptly, a black square creeps 
up the pole and flutters chill against the 
morning sky. 

Tess, more sinned against than sinning, 
had paid the great penalty. 

Printed by permission of, and arrangement with, Harper 
& Bros., au^oriised publishers. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



CERVANTES 

irjJGUEL DE CERVANTES SAAVEDRA, 
^ ^^ dramatist and novelist, was horn in 1647, the 
son of a Spanish druggist and surgeon. He died in 
Madrid in 1616, ten days before Shakespeare^ s 
death. 

As a youth Cervantes went to Italy, where he 
served as a private in the army. In a naval battle 
off Greece he was thrice wounded, his righi hand 
being permanently maimed. While returning to 
Spain he was captured by pirates and taken to Al- 
giers, where he was held as a slave for five years. 

After his ransom he wrote many plays. They 
brought him more fame Hum fortune, and he added 
to his responsibilities by wedding, at the age of 
thirty-seven, a girl of nineteen. It was evidently a 
marriage of love, a« her dowry consisted only of 
^^five vines, an orchard, some household furniture, 
four beehives, forty 'five hens and chickens, one cock, 
and a crucibleJ^ As he could not live by his pen, 
Cervantes secured a minor governmental position; 
but he wa>s in constant difftcvMies because of press- 
ing debts and his unbusiness-like habits. He was 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 




MIGUEL DE CERVANTES 



Digitized by LaOOQ IC 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



CERVANTES 23 

thrown into prison for debt; released j he sank into 
abject poverty. 

Part of ^^Don Quicote^' was probably written in 
jail. This novel j a magic mirror that reflects nobles 
and kitchen wenches, barbers and ladies of high 
degree, aU the varied life of a briUiarU period, is 
considered by many to be the worWs greatest hvr 
morous masterpiece. The wonder of it is that it 
was written by a man nearing his sixtieth year, 
who had aU his life been poor, who had known 
Utile except misfortune. ^'Children turn its pages, 
young people read it, grown men understand it, old 
folks praise itJ^ 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



DON QUIXOTE 

By MIGUEL DE CERVANTES 

Condensation by 
NATHAN HASKELL DOLE 

TN the sixteenth century romances of chiv- 
* ahy, written in absurd, exaggerated style, 
were extremely popular in Spain. 

A dignified gentleman by the name of 
Quixada, who lived between Aragon and 
Castile, went crazy over these foolish books, 
which he spent all his substance in buying. 
His brain was stuffed with enchantments, 
quarrels, battles, challenges, wounds, magic 
salves, complaints, amours, torments, giants, 
castles, captured maidens, gallant rescues, 
and all sorts of impossible deeds of daring, 
which seemed to him as true as the most 
authentic history. Every innkeeper was a 
magnate; every mule-driver a cavalier. 

He decided that for his own honor and for 
the service of the world he must turn knight 
errant and jaunt through the world, redress- 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



DON QUIXOTE 26 

ing wrongs^ rescuing captured princesses^ and 
at last winning the imperial scepter of 
Trapizonda. 

He changed his name to Don Quixote de 
la Mancha, got himself dubbed knight by a 
rascally pubUcan whose inn he thought was 
a castle with four turrets crowned with pin- 
nacles of glistening silver. In order to carry 
a full purse he sold one of his houses, mort- 
gaged another, and borrowed a goodly sum 
from a friend. When his practical house- 
keeper and his pretty niece, together with 
his neighbors, the barber and the curate, 
thought to cure him by burning his books, he 
was persuaded that his library had been 
carried away by a necromancer, and became 
crazier than ever. He scoured up a rusty 
suit of mail which had belonged to one of his 
ancestors, mended the broken helmet with a 
pasteboard vizor, patched with thin iron 
plates, and thus accoutered set forth on his 
old hack Rocinante, whose ribs stuck out 
like the skeleton of a ship, accompanied by a 
rustic named Sancho Panza, persuaded into 
serving as his squire. 

Their departure was a brave spectacle: 
the tall, cadaverous, lantern-jawed knight, 
mounted on his bony nag, wielding his long 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



26 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

lance and carrying his sword, his eyes gleam- 
ing with enthusiasm and dreaming of his 
beautiful mistress, whom he called Dulcinea 
del Toboso; the short, squat, paunch-beUied, 
long-haunched servant with a canvas wallet 
and a leathern bottle, mounted on the 
diminutive ass. Dapple. 

On the plains of Montiel stood a score of 
big windmills. Don Quixote took them for 
outrageous giants and prepared to do battle 
against them, and, despite Sancho's protests 
that their huge arms were only vanes, he 
plunged the rowels into Rocinante's thin 
flanks and with couched lance dashed off to 
the encounter. The wind blew violently and 
the knight and his steed were whirled away 
into the field, where they lay motionless and 
as if dead; his lance was smashed to flinders. 
Sancho hastened to the aid of his master and 
found him unable to stir; but he was soon 
ready to go on again. 

Their next adventure was with two monks 
riding on mules as big as dromedaries, in 
company with a coach in which sat a lady 
escorted by men on horseback. Don Quixote 
imagined that adventurers had captured a 
princess and in the haughtiest terms bade 
them release her. Then without further 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



DON QUIXOTE 27 

parley he drove against the monks^ one of 
whom ran away, while the other fell off his 
mule. Sancho nimbly slipped from his ass 
and began to strip the luckless man; while 
he was engaged in this legitimate appropria- 
tion of the spoils of battle two muleteers 
of the train overset him, tore out his beard 
by handf uls, mauled him, and left him sense- 
less. Don Quixote engaged in a terrific com- 
bat with one of the lady^s guard, who sliced 
off half of his helmet and one of his ears. 
Undaunted, the knight pressed the combat to 
victory, but just as he was about to give the 
finishing stroke, the frightened lady begged 
him to desist, and he complied on condition 
that the defeated opponent should go and 
present himself before the peerless Dulcinea, 
who was in reality a buxom woman known 
through all La Mancha for her skill in salting 
pork and who had never deigned to look at 
her amorous neighbor. 

A few days later, bruised and battered in 
untoward adventures, they came upon a flock 
of sheep which Don Quixote conceived to be 
a prodigious army composed of an infinite 
number of nations led by mighty kings. He 
spiured like a thunderbolt from the top of a 
hillock, shouting his battle-challenge, putting 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



28 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

the hapless sheep to flight and tramplmg 
both the living and the slain. Impatient to 
meet the conmiander of the enemy, he 
shouted: 

"Where, where art thou, haughty 
Alifanfaron?" 

At that moment the7shepherds rallied in 
defense of their flocks and overwhelmed the 
unlucky knight, first with stones and then 
with cudgels, leaving him in a desperate case, 
with nearly all his teeth knocked out or 
loosened, and his ribs half broken. 

Did this adventure discourage him? Not 
at all. It was all a part of chivalry. He and 
Sancho rode on in dolorous discourse. They 
were overtaken by night and had no shelter 
or food. Suddenly appeared a band of 
about twenty horsemen, all in white robes, 
with torches in their hands and followed by 
a hearse draped in black. It was the funeral 
of a gentleman of Segovia. Don Quixote took 
it to be the train of some knight either killed 
or desperately wounded, and> assiured that 
it was his duty to avenge the misfortunes of 
a brother-in-arms, halted the cortege and 
demanded an explanation. The replies of 
the clergymen failed to satisfy him and he 
flew at them in high dudgeon. Encum- 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



DON QUIXOTE 29 

bered by their long robes, they became easy 
victims and all took to flight. 

They possessed themselves of the edibles 
deserted by the clergymen,but, xmf ortimately, 
had nothing to drink, nor did they dare stir 
from the forest because of the awful clamor 
made by a fulling-mill which Don Quixote 
supposed to be enchantment. 

The next morning they met a barber riding 
on an ass and wearing his brass basin on his 
head to save his hat from the rain. Don 
Quixote recognized this as the golden helmet 
of Mambrino, and flew at this enemy as if he 
would grind him to powder. The barber 
fled, leaving his helmet, which Sancho appro- 
priated, though it seemed to him merely a 
common dish. 

They came to another inn. In the night 
Don Quixote, while sound asleep and dream- 
ing, enjoyed the most famous battle of his 
career. Dressed in a short shirt which ex- 
posed his lean, long, hairy shanks, and wear- 
ing a greasy red nightcap, with a blanket 
wrapped around his left arm for a shield, he 
was repeatedly plunging his sword into the 
plump bodies of several giants. Their blood 
flowed across the floor in wide, crimson 
streams. 

VOL. m. — 3 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



30 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVEM CONDENSED 

Imagine the wrath of the worthy mn- 
keeper at discovering that his famous guest 
had disemboweled all his wine-sacks, which 
were made of goat-skins with the heads left 
on. 

After this Don Quixote was got home by 
the curate and the barber; but he broke loose 
again. First he visited his Dulcinea, but 
came away convinced that through more 
enchantment she had been changed into a 
blubber-cheeked, flat-nosed country wench, 
the pearls of her eyes into gall-nuts, her long 
golden locks into a cow's tail, and her palace 
into a hut. 

He had adventures with strolling actors 
and lions; he attended the rich Camacho's 
wedding; he explored the deep cave of Mon- 
tesinos; he rode on a magic bark and visited 
the nameless duke and duchess through 
whose complaisance Sancho was granted his 
ambition to rule over an island and did it 
with wisdom worthy of Solomon. Many 
more adventures followed, but at last Don 
Quixote returned to his home and recovered 
his senses on his death-bed, dying as a lovable, 
high-minded, noble-hearted gentleman. 

Cervantes's masterpiece is not all satire. 
Don Quixote has lucid moments; Sancho's 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



DON QUIXOTE 31 

simplicity veils common sense, often ex- 
pressed in witty proverbs. There is oc- 
casional coarseness, but not so much as in 
Shakespeare. The chief fault is its treat- 
ment of insanity, in its author's fondness for 
cruel and brutal practical jokes, which may 
perhaps explain the maintenance of bull- 
fighting as the national amusement of Spain. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



WOOD 

ifLLEN PRICE was ham at Worcester, Eng- 
^^^ landy January 17 j 1814, the daughter of a 
glove mariufacturer. In 18S6 she married Henry 
Wood, head of a large shipping and banking firm, 
whose business kept them for some twenty years in 
France. Her husband died in 1866, but she lived 
tiU February 10, 1887. 

Her literary career began with a £100 prize temr 
perance tale. She began making contributions to 
^'BenUey^s Miscellany, ^^ and in 1867, after her hus- 
band^s death, she became editor and proprietor of 
" The Argosy, ^^ in which appeared her later novels. 
Her first great success was ^^East Lynne," in 1861, 
the book by which she is known to-day^ The vogue 
of the story was enormous; it was translated into 
several languages, and theaiergoers of an older 
generation in both England and America knew 
various very successful versions of it. She wrote 
some forty long novels and many short tales, some 
of which ranked as ^^best sellers^' long before the 
invention of that phrase. Her powers ranged from 
extreme melodrama to the portrayal of every-day 
life. She was perhaps unduly prized in her day 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



^^2£2!^. 







MRS. HENRY WOOD 



Digitized by LaOOQ IC 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



WOOD Z3 

and 18 undvly appreciated now, but that is the way 
with best setters. " The Shadow of Ashlydyat^^ was 
her own favorite; her Johnny Ludlow tcdes are per- 
haps her most artistic work. ^^East Lynne,^^ how- 
ever, is the book her name suggests to readers. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



EAST LYNNE 

By MRS. HENRY WOOD 

Condensation by 
RUTH H. FROST 

TEFT a penniless orphan when a timid and 
^ sensitive girl of eighteen, the beautiful 
Lady Isabel Vane found herself at the mercies 
of an imsympathetic relative. In her inno- 
cence she admired a certain frequent visitor 
at this home — Captain Francis Levison, an 
imprincipled spendthrift. Beyond heartless- 
ly leading her on to care for him, he made 
no honorable mention of marriage. Small 
wonder was it then that she accepted Archi- 
bald Carlyle, when that worthy and straight- 
forward country lawyer, the purchaser of her 
father's estate at East Lynne, took coiu^age 
because of her distress over her unpleasant 
surroundings to ask her hand in marriage. 

"I ought to tell you — ^I must,*' she con- 
fessed to him in hysterical tears. "Though 
I have said 'yes,' I do not — ^yet — This has 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



EAST LYNNE 36 

come upon me so by surprise/' she stam- 
mered. "I like you very much; I esteem 
and respect you; but I do not yet love you." 

"I should wonder if you did/' Archibald 
replied. "But you will let me earn your 
love, Isabel?'' 

"Oh yes/' she earnestly answered, "I hope 
so." 

Passively she let him have his first kiss. 
"My dearest/' he said, "it is aU I ask." 

Six years passed. life at East Lynne was 
not all that one might wish for. To be sure, 
Lady Isabel had a most devoted husband and 
three lovely children. But her happiness was 
marred by two thorns of which her husband 
was quite imaware. Cornelia Carlyle, the 
domineering and narrow-minded half-sister 
of Archibald, had steeled her heart against 
Isabel from the beginning, and made life at 
East Lynne quite miserable for the poor 
little inexperienced bride. The second dis- 
turbance was the suspicion that her husband 
had loved and was now renewing his love for 
Barbara Hare, the daughter of the neigh- 
borhood justice. Incited by the idle gossip 
of servants, this suspicion grew into jealousy. 

It was true that Archibald seemed to have 
many meetings with the pretty Barbara — 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



36 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

but how was poor Lady Isabel to know that 
in reality these meetings concerned only pri- 
vate business of a professional nature? Bar- 
bara Hare had a brother, Richard, who years 
before had been accused of murder. Her 
mother was an invalid, and her stubborn, 
unforgiving father would hear naught of the 
son who had disgraced him. Barbara's 
secret meetings with her exiled brother had 
convinced her of his innocence. Her one 
recourse, when implored by Richard to seek 
help in finding the real criminal, was to con- 
fide in their old family friend, Archibald 
Carlyle. 

Always delicate in health and worried sick 
over her imagined troubles. Lady Isabel was 
finally persuaded by her physician to go to 
the French coast for a change in air and 
scenery. The autocratic Cornelia forbade 
her being accompanied by the children. 
Lady Isabel was looking forward to a lonely 
fortnight before her husband was to join her, 
when she chanced to meet Francis Levison, 
exiled to the Continent because of his debts 
in England. Bewildered when she began to 
realize that she still had that indefinable, 
involimtary feeling toward him, she was yet 
completely fascinated, as in the old days 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



EAST LYNNE 37 

before her marriage. She would have given 
all she possessed to overcome this attraction. 
Courage failed her to confide all in her 
husband. 

Full of sophistries as before, the unscrupu- 
lous Captain Levison compelled her to listen 
to him. "The past is gone/' he said, "but 
if ever two people were formed to love each 
other, you and I were, Isabel. I would have 
declared myself, had I dared, but my un- 
certain position — ^my debts — ^well, I never 
knew how passionately I loved you until you 
became the wife of another. Isabel, I love 
you passionately still." 

Lady Isabel felt it her duty to repel his 
advances, but there still remained that un- 
derciurent of feeling for him that she could 
not comprehend. Fearful lest she betray 
herself, she dismissed him abruptly, sent for 
her husband to take her home, and made a 
pitiful attempt to drive all thoughts of 
Francis Levison from her mind. 

It was well-nigh impossible. Her plans to 
forget him were completely frustrated when 
her generous husband, innocently enough, 
merely thinking to repay Captain Levison 
for his kind attentions to Lady Isabel on the 
French coast, invited that profligate to East 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



38 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

Lynne as a place of shelter where he might be 
safe from his creditors imtil something could 
be arranged. 

like a serpent, Levison boldly took every 
occasion to whisper into Lady Isabel's ear 
all the meetings that he spied between her 
husband and Barbara Hare. Under a mis- 
apprehension that her husband was giving 
his love to Barbara, and frantic with the 
jealous belief that the two were uniting to 
deceive her, Lady Isabel finally yielded to 
Levison's pleadings and eloped with him. 

No sooner had she taken the final step than 
she was fiUed with remorse. Almost imme- 
diately she discovered the true character of 
this insincere rake for whom she had given 
up her all. In a year he deserted her, leaving 
her unborn child nameless. 

Too proud to accept help from relatives, 
she decided to become a governess. When 
she chanced to hear of the opportimity to 
return to East Lynne as the governess to her 
own children, she could not withstand the 
temptation, so great was her longing to see 
them again. It was a desperate chance to 
take, for she might be recognized, though 
illness and the railroad accident which had 
killed her child had altered her entirely. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



EAST LYNNE 39 

Her disguise was complete as, heartsick, she 
rode again along the familiar road toward 
East Lynne. When the dear old house 
loomed up before her, its gay and cheerily 
lighted windows a contrast to her own down- 
cast spirits, she began to wish she had never 
undertaken the project. But for the sake of 
seeing her own chUdren again, she would 
have turned back. Her fears of being recog- 
nized were allayed when she saw that no one 
suspected for a moment that the gray, sad- 
dened and disfigured ^^ Madame Vine" was 
Lady Isabel. 

East Lynne had a new mistress now — 
none other than her fancied rival of old, 
Barbara Hare. Not until she realized for 
the first time that Archibald's love could no 
longer be hers did Isabel feel an intensity of 
love for him that she had never experienced 
as his wife. And yet she became almost 
happy again in winning the affection of her 
children, though her joy in bemg with them 
was tempered with sorrow in caring for deU- 
cate little William, her second bom, knowing 
as she did that he cotdd not long be with 
them. 

Events moved along fast. There came the 
time when Francis Levison, returning to East 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



40 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

Lynne to seek election to Parliament; only 
to be defeated by Carlyle, was convicted of 
the crime which had overshadowed Richard 
Hare for so many years. At East Lynne, 
after the death of little William, a sudden 
illness came upon Lady Isabel. When she 
realized that she was failing rapidly, she 
begged upon her death-bed to be allowed to 
see Archibald Carlyle. 

" I could not die without your forgiveness," 
she murmured. "Do not turn from me! 
Bear with me one little minute! Only say 
you forgive me, and I shall die in peace." 

"Isabel! Are you — ^were you — ^Madame 
Vine?" 

"Oh, forgive me for disgracing your home! 
And forgive me for coming back! I could 
not stay away from you and my children! 
The longing for you was killing me. I never 
knew a moment's peace after the mad act I 
was guilty of in quitting you. Not an hour 
had I departed when my repentance set in. 
Oh, forgive me! My sin was great, but my 
punishment was greater." 

"Why did you go?" 

"Did you not know? I grew suspicious of 
you. I thought you were deceitful, and in 
my sore jealousy I listened to the temptings 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



EAST LYNNE 41 

of him who whispered to me of revenge. It 
was not true, was it?" she feverishly asked. 

^'Can you. suggest such a things knowing 
me as you did then, as you must have since? 
Isabel, I never was false to you in thought, 
word, or deed. Yes, I forgive you, fully, 
freely. May God bless you and take you to 
His rest in heaven!" 

She raised her head from the pillow and 
climg to his arm, lifting her face with its sad 
yearning. Tenderly he laid her down again 
and suffered his lips to rest on hers. 

"Until eternity," he whimpered. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



DUMAS 

yfLEXANDRE DUMAS was of mixed blood, 
-^^ the grandson of a French marquis and a no- 
live of the West Indies. His own father was a prin 
vate in the French army when the Revolution broke 
oui. He was smftly promoted untU he held the 
rank of generaUinrchief in Spain, hut he quarreled 
with Napoleon, and when he died he left but thirty 
acres of land to his widow and two children. 

Alexandre was bom on July ^4} 1802, in a town 
not far from Soissons. As a boy he had few ad- 
vantages, for his mother was poor. He was, how^ 
ever, carefully instructed by a kindly priest. He 
then studied law, but his desire to write drove him 
to Paris, where he began his career by penning 
vaudeville sketches and melodramas. 

He wrote plays for several years and his ^^ Henri 
III'^ scored the first great sv^ccess of the romantic 
drama. Short stories appeared at intervals, and 
then his novels. ^'The Three Musketeers^' came 
out in 1844, and thereafter romance after romance 
came in such rapid succession that his collected 
works in French fill two hundred and twenty-seven 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 




ALEXANDRE DUMAS 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



DUMAS 4a 

volumes. He told Napoleon III {hat he had 
written twelve hundred books. 

Prodigiously as he worked, he wasted just as 
prodigiously. He entertained a whole army of 
parasites, and in his last years was constantly 
harassed hy creditors. He had married, in 1840, 
Ida Ferrier, an actress, but they did not long live 
together. His daughter came to his aid in 1868 
when he was dehUridden andiU, and two years later, 
on December 6, 1870, he died in the home of his son,, 
the author of the popular ^'CamiUe.^^ 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



THE COUNT OF MONTE 
CRISTO 

By ALEXANDRE DUMAS, SR. 

Condensation by 
ALFRED S. CLARK 

r\N February 28, 1815, Edmond Dantes 
^^ sailed into Marseilles. He was but 
nineteen years of age and ardently in love. 
His conscience was clear; he had violated no 
law. Yet the next night he was in a cell in 
the gloomy ChS^teau d'lf , a fortress on a bare 
rock oflp Marseilles. And fourteen years 
were to pass before he strode again in the 
sunlight. 

Three men had wrought his ruin. Dang- 
lars envied Edmond's rapid promotion. Fer- 
nand was crazed with love for Mercedes, 
Edmond's beloved. Danglars wrote and 
Femand despatched a letter warning the 
authorities to intercept the missive Edmond 
was bearing to Paris. Chance decreed that 
this warning, addressed to Villefort's father, 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



THE COUNT OP MONTE CRISTO 45 

fell into the hands of the unscrupulous 
Villefort hunself . 

Of this dark intrigue Edmond knew noth- 
ing. At his captain's dying request^ he had 
called at Elba, where he had seen the captive 
Napoleon and been intrusted with a sealed 
letter. Villefort, a turncoat devoted to the 
aristocracy, had changed his name to make 
men forget that his father was a Bona- 
partist. He destroyed the incriminating 
letter before Edmond's eyes and promised 
that the lad should soon be free. Even as 
he spoke the words he knew that in the 
disappearance of this youth lay his own 
security. 

Thus it happened that while the Corsican 
came out of Elba by stealth and rode to 
Paris amid tumultuous cheers, Edmond lay 
in a dimgeon. The thimder of the guns at 
Waterloo did not penetrate the walls of the 
Ch&teau d'lf . Napoleon was borne away to 
St. Helena; the Himdred Days were over. 
And Dantes knew naught of these things. 
He ate out his heart in thoughts of Mercedes 
and wondered what mad freak of f ortime had 
thrust him away from the world of men. 

Days dragged into years. He lost track of 
time. Confined in a black and slimy dun- 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



46 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

geon, he saw only his jailer. There were 
moments when he hoped^ hours when he 
despaired, weeks when he raved in impotent 
anger. Foiur years rolled past. He was 
starving himself to death. Then he heard a 
rasping, scratching noise. The spark of 
human hope burned anew. He swallowed 
his broth; he must win back his strength. 
Somewhere near him was a human mole, 
burrowing stealthily, worming toward free- 
dom. 

Four days later a section of flooring fell in 
and out of a dark timnel sprang an old man. 
He was the Abb6 Faria, a prisoner for eight 
years. His timnel, dug with arduous toil, 
had failed to reach the sunlight, but it led to 
fellowship. Unsuspected by their jailers, 
the two men met daily and studied un- 
weariedly. Out of his ripe wisdom'and his 
prodigious memory, the abb6 taught Ed- 
mond mathematics, history, and languages. 

Less guileless than Edmond, he was able 
to prove, from the youth's own story, that 
Danglars, Femand, and Villefort were re- 
sponsible for his living death. So Edmond 
had a new incentive for freedom. He]sought 
revenge. The abb6 revealed, too,"the secret 
of the great treasure of gold and jewels that 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO 47 

lay in a cave on Monte Cristo, an uninhabited 
island off Italy. 

The years rolled on. Another attempt to 
escape was frustrated by the paralysis of the 
abba's right side. Edmond refused to leave 
him. He was a very different man from the 
carefree sailor who had been so suddenly 
jerked from the gaiety of a marriage feast to 
the gloom of a dimgeon. He was a man of 
the world — educated, cynical. 

One night he heard a cry of anguish. Hur- 
riedly he rolled aside the great stone that 
concealed the tunnel opening, crawled swiftly 
to his neighbor's cell. He found him writh- 
ing in agony. At dawn he was dead. 

That night Edmond carried the corpse to 
his own cell and laid it on his own bed, face 
to the wall, so that the jailer would think it 
Edmond asleep. Secreting a crude knife 
with which to. effect an escape, he then 
sewed himself into the coarse sack in which 
the jailers had put the body. Two men later 
bore out the supposed corpse, weighted the 
legs with a great iron ball, and swung the 
sack powerfully. Edmond suddenly realized 
that he was falling from a great height. He 
had been flimg from the ch&teau roof into 
the sea. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



48 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

He screamed aloud as he struck the water, 
and then the weight dragged him into the 
ice-cold depths. He ripped open the sack, 
convulsively cut the rope that was knotted 
to the shot, and rose to the surface. He had 
not forgotten how to swim. He struck out 
in the blackness for an islet. Just as he was 
losing hope, his knee struck rock. He stag- 
gered to his feet and above him rose a gloomy 
mass, his goal. 

At daybreak he flimg himself into the sea 
and was puUed aboard an outward-bound 
bark. Each moment Marseilles receded 
farther into the distance. He learned from 
his shipmates that it was February 28, 1829. 
He had been shut away from the world for 
fourteen years. He wondered what had be- 
come of Mercedes. Then he thought of 
Danglars, Femand, and Villefort. A baleful 
light flickered in his hard eyes. 

Edmond had fallen in with a band of 
smugglers. On one of their voyages he 
gazed eagerly at a granite mass rose-hued 
in the dawn. It was Monte Cristo. A few 
weeks later chance brought him to the island. 
None of his comrades suspected the leaping 
thoughts that thronged in Edmond's mind. 
They were simple folk, easily deceived. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO 4& 

Edmond fell from a rock and complained that 
he was so hurt that he could not move. He 
was confident, he insisted, that he could cure 
himself if he were left here. At last they 
sailed away. When the boat was out of 
sight he leaped to his feet, seized his pickax, 
and cried, "Open Sesame!'' He was alone 
on Monte Cristo. 

Following the clues of the abba's ancient 
manuscript, he located the great slab of 
rock overgrown with vegetation. He slashed 
at the edges with his pickax and made a 
hole. With his horn of powder he easily 
blasted the rock away. Before him was an 
iron ring embedded in a flagstone. He raised 
it and saw a flight of stairs. With hope 
mingled with a strange misgiving he de- 
scended, broke open a passage into an inner 
cave, and dug away the earth over an oak 
coffer bound with iron. He burst it open and 
there blazed gold coins, bars of gold, dia- 
monds, rubies, and pearls that glittered in 
glorious profusion. 

When Edmond came back to France it was 
as the Count of Monte Cristo — ^fabulously 
wealthy, romantic in appearance, a performer 
of miracles. His betrayers had risen to 
heights of fame and aflBiuence- Danglars was 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



60 ONE HUNDRED BEST N0VEI5 CONDENSED 

a wealthy banker; Femand an honored war- 
rior; Villefort high in office. Mercedes, 
believing Edmond dead, had yielded to 
Fernandas importunate pleadings and had 
married him. 

Zealously did the Count of Monte Cristo 
devote his days and nights to ruin these three. 
Usually it was in his own unrecognized per- 
sonality that he dazzled Paris with his feasts, 
his extravagances, his prodigal outlays. Ev- 
ery one paid court to this mysterious stranger 
who rained gold about him. Sometimes he 
disguised himself — ^now as the Abb^ Busoni, 
now as the Italian Zazzone, now as the 
English Lord Wilmore, now as Sinbad the 
Sailor. 

He tortured Danglars, Femand, Villefort 
methodically and yet so skilfully that they 
did not know the hand that directed the 
blows that fell upon them. Piece by piece 
Danglar's fortune was lopped away. At last 
he was beggared, the bitterest blow that 
could have befallen him. Femand, enmeshed 
slowly in revelations of his guilty past, finally 
blew out his brains; Villefort, his crimes 
dragged into the light of day, went raving 
mad. Mercedes, made poor but happy in 
the love of her devoted son, lived on, penitent. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO 61 

Yet were there those whom Monte Cristo 
rewarded. The noble Morrel, his former em- 
ployer, was saved from bankruptcy by a 
mysterious Englishman who presented him 
with notes he could not meet. And on the 
uninhabited island of Monte Cristo MorreFs 
son, true and tried as his father, learned that 
ViUefort^s daughter, the girl who had re- 
mained fine through all vicissitudes, still 
lived. She stood beside him on the pinnacle 
of the island and they looked with blurred 
eyes into the distance, where each moment a 
ship grew fainter and fainter. It was bearing 
from their sight the man who had once been 
Edmond Dantes. With him was the radi- 
ant Haydee, the mysterious princess whose 
beauty had outshone all the beauties of 
Paris. In her love Edmond had at last 
forgotten aU that he did not now want to 
remember. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



SAINT-PIERRE 

7'ACQUES HENRI BERNARDIN DE 
SAINT-PIERRE was ham at Havre in 17S7 
and died at Eragny, near Pontois, in 1814* 

An emotional dreamer, an irascible personificor 
tian of the rolling stone, Bemardin de Saint-Pierre 
was constantly wandering from one thing and place 
to another. 

Educated for an engineer's profession, he went to 
sea, served in the army, was dismissed, received an 
appointment at Malta, held various posts at St. 
Petersburg, Warsaw, Dresden, Berlin, Mauritius, 
was superintendent of the Jardin des Pkmtes at 
Paris and professor at the Ecole Nonnale, was a 
member of the Institute, and was ever meeting with 
tumvltiuyus and romantic adventures. 

Yet he found time to write many volumes, of which 
the world remerribers one. In ^'Paul and Virginia^^ 
he created two figures which have caught the popular 
imagination, not only of France, bvt of every country 
where books are read. 

The story inevitably suggests the Greek pastoral 
^^Daphnis and Chloe^^ by Longus, and one sees in 
all his life the interest he took in Crusoe. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 




JACQUES SAINT-PIERRE 



Digitized by LaOOQ IC 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



SAINT-PIERRE 53 

He was a disciple of Rousseau; he led the way 
to Chdieaubriand; he broke away from (he French 
classic tradition, and was one who started the move- 
ment hack to nature and paved the way to the great 
romantic spell. Among the friends of Bemardin 
de Saint-Pierre and the admirers of ^^Pavl and 
Virginia*^ was the first Napoleon. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



PAUL AND VIRGINIA 

By SAINT-PIERRE 

Condensation by 
IRVING BACHELLER 

TN the year 1726 a young man of Normandy 
* brought to the Isle de France his young 
wife, whose family was of noble blood. 
Shortly afterward he was taken with the 
fever and died, leaving her alone on the isle. 

Estranged from her family and without 
means, the yoimg widow made her way to 
an iminhabited island where she could cul- 
tivate the soil without the payment of rent, 
and there she built a rude home for herself 
and her little child, a daughter whom she 
named Virginia. 

At the same time another woman, with a 
little son named Paul, settled on the same 
island, and the two women, mutually grateful 
for aid and comfort, became fast friends, 
although they had been of different stations 
in life. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



PAUL AND VIRGINIA 55 

Marguerite's servant, named Domingo, a 
powerful black man, was the husband of 
Marie, who was Madame de la Tour's hand- 
maid. Boimd to each other by shnilar needs, 
the two lonely women spent much time to- 
gether, and the two children were almost 
inseparable. Their attachment was veryi 
marked even from the cradle. If Virginia/ 
was in trouble, the cries of Paul made it! 
known. When they learned to speak, the/ 
first names they learned to give each other 
were brother and sister. For the rest, thej 
went almost naked, and could neither reac 
nor write. | 

From the beauty of their bare limbs oneV 
might fancy them two of Niobe's children ( 
escaped from the marble. 

As Madame de la Tour saw the unfolding 
charms of her daughter she became alarmed 
for her future and humbled herself to write 
to an old aunt in France, asking for aid for 
Virginia's sake. 

The aimt replied coldly, commending her 
to the governor of the island, adding, "Your 
dis^acef ul marriage has brought its righteous 
pimishment." 

Deserted by her kinsfolk, the poor widow 
took Paul and Virginia to her arms. 

VOL. ni. — 6 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



56 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

Paul became a planter, busy and skilful, 
while Virginia spun or tended the goats and 
'; helped in the house. Thus passed their 
/ innocent youth. 

To them Madame de la Tour read the 
stories which time had hallowed, teach- 
ing them to find their happiness in serving 
others. 

Their lives seemed bound up in that of the 
trees. They knew no historical epochs, no 
chronology save that of their orchards. No 
care wrinkled their brows, no intemperance 
poisoned their blood. They had aU the 
freshness of the morning of life. They loved 
each other naturally and purely. 

It was wise Marguerite who said: "Let us 
marry our children. Soon Paul will be a 
man, and then we will have much to fear." 

Madame de la Tour hesitated. "Let us 
wait. Let us send Paul to India for a time. 
There he wiU be able to earn money with 
which to provide a home for himself and 
Virginia.'^ 

To this plan Paul would not consent. "I 
am needed here. Domingo is old and our 
mothers are alone. I shall stay." 

At this moment came another letter from 
the aunt in Normandy asking that Virginia 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



PAUL AND VIRGINIA 57 

be sent to her for education. '* If she follows 
my wishes," the aunt wrote, *'she may look 
forward to being my heiress." 

Virginia was alarmed at this oflFer and Paul 
was angry. The madame decided against it. 

The governor of the island now urged that 
Virginia be sent. 

A missionary of the island joined the gov- 
ernor in urging that Virginia go to her kins- 
woman, and at last with a heart filled with 
anguish, mother and daughter, thinking it 
God^s will, consented. 

Paul was puzzled by all this secret council. 

Meanwhile Virginia's consent had brought 
from her aunt gold to pay for clothes and 
jewels and her passage, and she was a trans- 
formed being. In her muslin and taffeta, 
with her hair in the manner of the period, she 
looked the duchess, and Paul was thrown into 
despair at sight of her beauty and her alien 
magnificence. 

Distressed by his grief and hoping to cure 
him of his false hopes. Marguerite now told 
him that he was only the illegitimate son of a 
peasant, while Virginia was the daughter of a 
noblewoman. 

Paul, pressing her in his arms, assured her 
that, as he had no other relative, he would 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



\ 



68 ONE HUNDRED BEST N0VEI5 CONDENSED 

love her the more. ''But I see now why 
Madame de la Tour avoids me/' 

As the thought of losing Virginia came to 
him, Paul lost control of himself. Clasping 
her in his arms, he said: ^'I am going with 
you. Nothing shall part us. I swear it by 
the sea that I must cross, by the air to which 
I have never breathed a lie.'' 

Nevertheless, Virginia was taken away 
from him while he was wandering in the 
forest, mad with his fears. When he retmned 
to the cabin and found her gone, he rushed 
to a high point from which the outgoing 
vessel could be seen, and there he stood till 
the darkness fell and the night winds began 
to sing their songs in his ear. 

Thereafter when he saw the two mothers 
weeping he bitterly said, ''Seek some one 
else to wipe away your tears." 

At last he turned his thought to the garden 
and to a new task. He determined to learn 
to read. He wished to be able to read of the 
country to which his love had gone. In a 
very short time he was able to read, and when 
at last a letter came from Virginia he was 
able to read it for himself. It was a sweet 
letter, but not a cheerful one. The girl's 
heart was in her happy island, and she asked 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



PAUL AND VIRGINIA 69 

Paul to plant the flower seeds which she sent, 
upon the spot where they had last talked to- 
gether — ^a place she called Farewell Rock. 

As the months passed, envious folk began 
to whisper that Virginia was about to marry 
a nobleman, and Paul was a prey to doubt 
and despair. 

One morning at daybreak Paul saw a white 
flag flying on Moxmt Discovery. It was a 
sign that a ship was in the ofiing. A little 
later a letter from Virginia to Madame de la 
Tour was handed to Paul. Rapturously 
kissing it, he thrust it into his bosom and 
hastened to his home! To all the household 
madame read the letter. Virginia was com- 
ing home! She would soon land. Masters 
and servants all embraced. 

"My son," said Madame de la Tour, "go 
tell aU our neighbors Virginia is coming 
home." 

To this happy household a negro messenger 
came to say that the ship was in distress and 
firing guns for help. A storm was approach- 
ing. By midnight the sea was hammering 
the rocks with fearful roar. The sound of 
the signal guns was dreadful in Paul's ears. 
All night long he and his faithful Domingo 
waited for the dawn in silence and dread. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



60 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

At dawn the governor with a file of soldiers 
arrived at a point near which the ship could 
be dimly seen in the fog. All signs pointed 
to a hurricane, and the people gathered in 
the hope of assisting the ship to land its 
passengers. 

At nine o'clock a whirlwind swept the har- 
bor clear of fog and the ship was seen moored 
near the rocks. Her head was set toward the 
billows which rolled from the open sea. 

Suddenly, in the midst of a terrible rush 
of sea, the cables parted. The ship was 
thrown upon the rocks. A cry of despair 
arose among those who stood on shore. 
Paul, in frenzy, was about to throw himself 
into the sea when a strong hand prevented 
him. In order to save his life they boimd 
him fast with a long rope and let him leap 
into the water. He tried to reach the ship, 
only to be flung back upon the sands. 

The crew threw themselves into the sea. 
Those on shore saw a young woman stretch- 
ing out her arms in piteous entreaty. It was 
Virginia, almost the last to remain on board. 
In a moment she, too, was struggling in the 
cruel sea. 

Paul, xmconscious and bleeding from his 
last attempt to reach the ship, was carried to 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



PAUL AND VIRGINIA 61 

a neighboring house^ while old Domingo and 
other friends searched the beach for the body 
of Virginia. 

At last in despair they started back to tdl 
Virginia's mother of the girl's tragic death. 
On the way some negroes told them that 
wreckage had been driven in at Palm River 
Valley, and so Domingo and his companion 
turned aside to look once again for the body. 

There on the sand, half buried, yet with a 
serene and beautiful face, lay the maiden, 
richly clad. One hand rested upon her 
gown, the other was pressed to her heart and 
covered a picture of Paul. 

Lifting her gently, the servants carried her 
to a fisherman's hut and left her. 

In the morning Paul was brought home. 
He had regained his senses, but he could not 
utter a word. His coming brought a ray of 
hope. 

After a beautiful and touching ceremony, 
in which the black people took a part, they 
buried the lovely body on the westem side 
of the church, at a point where she had often 
rested when on her way to Mass, with Paul, 
and there a few weeks later they brought his 
body in order that he might rest forever by 
her side. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



HUGHES 

HHHOMAS HUGHES was ham October gO, 1822, 
-* at UjgiingUm, Berks. In 18S4 his father sent 
Tom to Rugby to be under the charge of Doctor Arnold; 
(he doctor and (he father had been feUouhstudents at 
Oriel College, Ozford. Both school and master 
were made worldrknown by the book, " Tom Brovm^s 
School DaysJ^ Tom Hughes must have been very 
much the same sort of schoolboy as (he hero of (he 
story, bvi in fact, George, his brother, was (he orig- 
inal of Tom, as Dean Stanley vhis (he original of 
Ar(hur. 

Thomas Hughes followed in his father^ s footsteps 
at Oriel; he was later called to (he bar, and everUvr 
ally ivas appointed a county court judge. 

His life was one of true service to humanUy; 
Frederick Maurice was (he great influence (hat 
worked upon him, and he was of (he group, along 
wi(h Charles Kingsley, who devoted (hem^elves to 
the cause of the Workingmen^s College. He sat in 
Parliament, always a devoted friend of his friends, 
the workingmen; he tried his hand at an idealistic 
colony, caMed Rugby, in Tennessee; he was a fre- 
quent visitor to America, and was a great friend and 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 




THOMAS HUGHES 



Digitized by LaOOQ IC 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



HUGHES 63 

admirer of James RussM LaweUf whose influence 
over him is shown in (he frequent quotations in his 
hooks. His other volumes included a sequel to "Tom 
Brown at Oxford^^ '^Bdigio Laid/^ and his *'Memr 
oir of a Brother J^ But he vriJl always he rememr 
hered as the sane and great-hearted author who has 
understood something of the soul of a schoolboy ^ and 
who has written the greatest hook in English of the 
schoolboy's life. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



TOM BROWN'S SCHOOL DAYS 

By THOMAS HUGHES 

Condensatioii by 
PROF. WILLIAM FENWICK HARMS 

"TUST as Tom was swallowing his last 
^ mouthful (three o'clock in the morning), 
winding his comforter round his throat, and 
tucking the ends into the breast of his coat, 
the horn sounds, Boots looks in and says, 
* Tally-ho, sir,' and they hear the ring and the 
rattle of the four fast trotters and the town- 
made drag as it dashes up to the Peacock. 

"'Anything for us. Bob?' says the burly 
guard, dropping down from behind, * and 
slapping himself across the chest. 

'* 'Young genTm'n, Rugby,' answers a 
hostler. 

"'Tell young gent to look alive,' says the 
guard, opening the hind-boot and shooting 
the parcels in after examining them by the 
lamps. 'Here, shove the portmanteau up 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



TOM BROWN'S SCHOOL DAYS 65 

atop — ^I'U fasten him presently. Now there, 
sir, jump up behind/ 

" * Good-by, father — ^my love at home/ A 
last shake of the hand. Up goes Tom, the 
guard catching his hatbox and holding on 
with one hand, while with the other he claps 
the horn to his mouth. Toot, toot, toot! 
the hostlers let go their heads, the four bays 
plunge at the collar, and away goes the 
Tally-ho into the darkness, forty-five seconds 
from the time they had pulled up." 

So Tom Brown started to begin his school 
days at Rugby when William the Foiuiih sat 
upon his throne. Squire Brown had medi- 
tated something as follows the night before: 
''Shall I tell him to mind his word and to 
make himself a good scholar? Well, but he 
isn't sent to school for that — ^at any rate, not 
for that mainly. I don't care a straw for 
Greek particles or the digamma; no more 
does his mother. What is he sent to school 
for? Well, partly because he wanted so to 
go. If he'll only turn out a brave, helpful, 
truth-telling Englishman, and a gentleman, 
and a Christian, that's all I want." Upon 
this view of the case he framed his last words 
to Tom. "And now, Tom, my boy, re- 
member you are going at your own earnest 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



66 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVEIS CONDENSED 

request, to be chucked into this great school, 
like a young bear with all your troubles before 
you — earlier than we should have sent you 
perhaps." (Tom was nine.) ''If schools 
are what they were in my time, you^ll see a 
great many cruel blackguard things done 
and hear a deal of foul bad talk. But never 
fear. You tell the truth, keep a brave and 
kind heart, and never listen, or say anything 
you wouldn^t have your mother and sister 
hear, and you'll never feel ashamed to come 
home, or we to see you." 

Tom's father was a great asset to the boy. 
For though he belonged to what is called the 
upper middle class, the opinion which the 
squire loved to propound above all others 
was the belief that a man is to be valued 
wholly and solely for that which he is in 
himself, for that which stands up in the four 
fleshly walls of him, apart from clothes, 
rank, fortune, and all externals whatsoever. 
He held, further, that it didn't matter a straw 
whether his son associated with lords' sons 
or plowmen's sons, provided they were 
brave and honest. So Tom had a merry and 
right democratic time with the boys of the 
village, and learned much that stood him in 
good stead when he got to Rugby, among 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



TOM BROWN'S SCHOOL DAYS 67 

other things to value man or boy wholly for 
what was in him, whether it was Harry Win- 
bum, the quickest and best boy in the 
parish, who taught him the turns and holds 
which later carried him through his great 
fight with the bully of Rugby; or poor 
Jacob Doodle-calf (as the boys nicknamed 
him), in whose hands everything came to 
pieces and in whose head nothing would 
stick, or Job Rudkin, whose scandalized 
mother demanded, on the occasion of a visit 
from Madam Brown, "Job, Job, where's thy 
cap?" 

"What! beant 'e on ma head, mother?" 
replied Job, slowly extricating one hand from 
a pocket and feeling for the article in ques- 
tion, which he found on his head and left 
there, to his mother's horror and Tom's 
great delight. 

Rugby was a new world for Tom. He was 
a sturdy and combative urchin, able to fend 
for himself on his own heath; yet it was a 
great boon for him that he fell into the hands 
of a boy of his own age, but a bit ahead of 
him at Rugby. The first sight he encoun- 
tered on his arrival was a lordly crowd of 
youngsters who looked quite as if they owned 
the place. One of these young heroes ran 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



68 ONE HUNDRED BEST N0VEI5 CONDENSED 

out from the rest and accosted Tom. ^'I 
say, you fellow, is your name Brown?" 

"Yes," said Tom, in considerable astonish- 
ment, glad, however, to have lighted on some 
one already who seemed to know him. 

"Ah, I thought so; you know my old 
aunt. Miss East; she lives somewhere down 
your way in Berkshire. She wrote to me 
that you were coming to-day, and asked me 
to give you a lift. You see," said his friend, 
as they strolled up toward the school gates, 
"a great deal depends on how a fellow cuts 
up at first. If he's got nothing odd about 
him, and answers straightforward and holds 
his head up, he gets on. You see, I'm doing 
the handsome thing by you because my 
father knows yours; besides, I want to please 
the old lady. She gave me half a sov this 
half, and perhaps '11 double it next if I keep 
in her good books." 

Thus began a friendship which lasted 
through all their school days and meant 
much to both of them. Friendship and 
loyalty and good sportsmanship are great 
features in this book, which shows an insight 
into the brain and heart of a boy which is 
just as wise in the year of our Lord 1920 as 
it was in the days of William the Fourth* 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



TOM BROWN'S SCHOOL DAYS 60 

Tom and East were together in games, in 
mischief^ in fights^ in good dqeds^ or in devil- 
try, as they were in ingenious syndicating 
methods of working out the mysteries of the 
Greek and Latin languages. And years later, 
when the wise "Doctor," Arnold of Rugby, 
decided that Tom was headed toward de- 
struction, it was by means of friendship for a 
weaker boy who needed his protection that 
he rescued him. What was the marvel of the 
Doctor's power over boys? "We couldn't 
enter into half that we heard; we hadn't the 
knowledge of our own hearts or the knowl- 
edge of one another; and little enough of the 
faith, hope, and love needed to that end. 
But we listened, as all boys in their better 
moods will listen (aye, and men, too, for the 
matter of that), to a man whom we felt to 
be, with all his heart and soul and strength, 
striving against whatever was mean and un- 
manly and imrighteous in our little world. 
It was not the cold clear voice of one giving 
advice and warning from serene heights to 
those who were struggling and sinning be- 
low, but the warm, living voice of one who 
was fighting for us and by our sides, and call- 
ing on us to help him and ourselves and one 
another. And so, wearily and little by little, 

VOL. m. — 6 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



70 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVEIfi CONDENSED 

was brought home to the young boy, for the 
first time, the meaning of his life: that it 
was no fool's or sluggard's paradise into 
which he had wandered by chance, but a 
battle-field ordained from of old, where there 
are no spectators, but the youngest must take 
his side, and the stakes are life and death. 
And he who roused this consciousness in 
them showed them at the same time, by 
every word he spoke and by his whole daily 
life, how that battle was to be fought; and 
stood there before them their fellow-soldier 
and the captain of their guard. The true 
sort of captain, too, for a boys' army, one 
who had no misgivings and gave no uncertain 
word of command, and, let who would yield 
or make a truce, would fight the fight out (so 
every boy felt) to the last gasp and the last 
drop of blood. 

And so Tom lived his life from the first 
green days to the last memorable night, 
when he was '^ chaired" round the quad- 
rangle by the eleven, shouting in chorus, 
*'For he's a jolly good feUow," himself as 
great a boy as all the rest, despite the passage 
of the years and his dignity of captain. It 
is a story of humanness, with all its good 
points and its frailties, but especially of 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



TOM BROWN'S SCHOOL DAYS 71 

loyalty and of friendship; of games, so much 
like our own in spirit, and yet so different 
in details; of East and Arthur, of the bru- 
talities of the old fagging system, the school 
bully and Tom's classic fight with him, of the 
final war of independence against what was 
mean and sordid. 

"'I want to leave behind me,' said Tom, 
speaking low, 'the name of a fellow who 
never bullied a little boy nor turned his back 
on a big one/ And then, *I would sooner 
have the Doctor's good opinion of me as I 
really am than any man's in the world.'" 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



SCOTT 

nnHE majorUy of Sir Walter ScotPa navels were 
-^ pyblished arumynumsly. ^'Waverley^^ ap- 
peared in 1814} and not until 18S7 was it formally 
acknowledged that Scott was (he author of *^The 
Waverley Novels J^ A few Edinburgh friends were 
always in the secret and year hy year the circle of 
those who knew wa^ widened. But to thousands 
and thousands of rapt readers the author remained 
'* The Great UnknownJ^ Even those who actually 
knew Scott to he the author were sometimes puzzled. 
He had official law duties which he did not shirk; 
he appeared in society more than many Imsy men; 
each year his name was signed to so many articles 
and reviews that it seemed incredible that he could 
find time for anything else. 

The explanation lay in Scott^s ability to concent 
trate. He knew what he wanted to say and he spent 
little time hunting for phrases or polishing his sen- 
tences. There is a familiar anecdote of a visitor to 
Edinburgh, dining with convivial friends and look- 
ing out of a window at a hand which went back and 
forthy bade and forth, across sheets of paper. *^It 
never stops," said his host. . . . It is the same 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 




SIR WALTER SCOTT 



Digitized by LaOOQ IC 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



SCOTT 73 

every nighiJ* The visitor suggested that it was per- 
haps a diligent derk. "iVo, hays,^^ his friend re- 
plied, "/ weU know whose hand it is — His Walter 
ScoWs:' 

Sometiines Scott was so racked hy pain that he 
could not write. " The Bride of Lammermoor^^ and 
^^Ivanhoe^^ were dictated while the author was suffer- 
ing so intensely from cramps that between sentences 
he screamed aloud in agony. But when he was 
begged to stop and rest he answered, ^*Nay, Willie, 
only see that the doors are fast.^' 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



- / 

/,f WAVERLEY 

"^ CBy SIR WALTER SCOTT 

, Jf^ Condensation by 

/ ^-j; HENRY T. SCHNITTKIND, Ph.D. 

6^ xT El* US for a few,4hril]^ minutes trans- 
v^ V port ourselve^to Sjsdtland in 1745, when 
' ;\lts Highland foi:6sts ;tfeemed with the caves 
y x^^ of robbers and its inoors resounded with the 
js//^ shouting of t|ie cmeftains as they battled to 
restore the/tegiled House of Stuart to the 
throne, tl^ip^ccupied by King George II. 
— Afa^-ymt-r egdy? 'Hieir-let-us^^iallSlie' 
handsome young English officer, Edward 
Waverley^ "^ is about to visit the cavern of 
the Hi^iland robber, Donald Bean Lean, 
little dreaming of the maze of adventures into 
which this visit will lead him. Waverley is 
enjoying a furlough at the Scottish Low- 
land mansion of the eccentric, garrulous, 
and lovable Baron of Bradwardine. The 
baron's seventeen-year-old daughter. Rose 
Bradwardine, '^with a profusion of hair of 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



s!^ 






WAVERLEY 76 

paly goldy and a skin like the snow of her 
own mountains in whiteness/' has fallen in 
love with Waverley, who, however, finds her 
tender attentions too tame for his poetic 
imagination. It is his ambition to explore 
the wild regions of romance, and fortunately 
an opportunity presents itself. The baron's 
cattle, having been stolen by the robber, 
Donald Bean Lean, are restored through the 
interposition of the baron's friends, the 
powerful Highland chieftain, Fergus Mac- 
Ivor. The chieftain's lieutenant, Evan Dhu 
Maccombich, invites Waverley to visit Don- 
ald Bean Lean's den. After a journey 
through Lowland glen and brae, over High- 
land lake and forest, they arrived at the 
cavern, where Waverley spends an interesting 
night in the presence of Donald Bean Lean 
and his company of robbers, who come singly 
or in groups, each cutting with his dirk a 
slice of flesh from a carcass suspended in the 
cave, broiling the steak and washing it down 
with draughts of undiluted whisky. A 
buxom Highland lass, the robber's daughter, 
takes care of this romantic den. 

The next morning Evan Dhu Maccom* 
bich induces Waverley to visit the Highland 
mansion of his master, Fergus Maclvor, 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



76 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CX)NDENSED 

whose handsome face '^resembles a smiling 
summer's day in which, however, one can 
detect signs that it may thunder and lighten 
before evening/' His love for his beautiful 
and accomplished sister. Flora Maclvor, is 
equaled only by his ambition to restore the 
exiled Stuart family to the throne. 

Fergus entertains Waverley at a pictu- 
resque banquet attended by hundreds of the 
clansmen of Maclvor. After the banquet 
Flora asks Waverley to meet her in her 
favorite haunt near a cascade. As Edward 
approached the waterfall "the sun, now 
stooping in the west, seemed to add more 
than human brilliancy to the full expressive 
darkness of Flora's eyes. Edward thought 
he had never, even in his wildest dreams, im- 
agined a picture of such exquisite loveliness." 

Conscious of her charms in this "Eden in 
the wilderness," Flora sings to him a stirring 
martial song which she accompanies on a 
small Scottish harp, the melody blending 
harmoniously with the sound of the waters of 
the cataract. Waverley, bewitched by her 
loveliness, proposes to Flora, who promptly 
rejects him. 

Disappointed, but not discouraged, Waver- 
ley gladly accepts an invitation to remiain at 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



WAVERLEY 77 

Fergus Maclvor's mansion for a few days. 
While attending a stag-hunt he sustains an 
injury which keeps him in bed for some time. 
On his recovery he is both astonished and 
incensed to learn that the colonel of his 
regiment has reduced him to the ranks for 
"absence without leave." His anger is ag- 
gravated by a letter from his father, who, 
through a political blimder, has lost a high 
position in the court of King George. At 
the same time, too, Rose Bradwardine writes 
to him that her father, the baron, has been 
obliged to flee in order to escape arrest for 
his adherence to the cause of the exiled 
Stuarts. 

Despite these apparent acts of injustice 
Waverley remains loyal to King George and 
decides to return home. On the way to 
England, however, he is arrested and charged 
with desertion and treason. Knowing hmi- 
self to be innocent, he is mystified at this 
turn of affairs. What plot has been hatched 
against him, and by whom? His stupe- 
faction increases when he is rescued by a 
band of Highlanders. Who are these High- 
landers? And why do they interest them- 
selves in him? These and similar questions 
perplex his bewildered senses. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



78 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

Wounded during the rescue, he is nursed 
back to health in a peasant's hut by a young 
girl who always manages to make her escape 
whenever he tries to catch a glimpse of her. 
When his health is restored the Highlanders 
take him to Edinburgh, where he meets his 
friends, Fergus Maclvor and the Baron of 
Bradwardine, among the insurgents who are 
making an attempt to recover the throne for 
their gallant leader, the exiled Prince Charles 
Edward. Waverley now feels compelled to 
join this army. 

Just before enlisting Waverley tries once 
more to win Flora's love, but is again re- 
pulsed. He therefore throws himself heart 
and soul into the cause of the young prince. 

The army is about to engage in its first 
battle. The sun has just risen. The rocks, 
and the very sky itself, '^resound with the 
clang of the bagpipes.'' The mountaineers 
rouse themselves with the hum and bustle of 
a multitude of bees, arming and ready to 
swarm out of their hives. 

The insurgents win the battle and Waver- 
ley captures a brave English officer who re- 
mains alone beside his cannon after the others 
have fled. The officer turns out to be a 
certain Colonel Talbot, an old friend of the 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



WAVERLEY 79 

house of Waverley whom Edward has never 
met before. Colonel Talbot has left an 
invalid wife in order to find Waverley and 
to induce him to return home, since his con- 
duct has put the entire Waverley family into 
danger. 

When Edward learns that Colonel Talbot's 
imprisonment is likely to cost the life of his 
sick wife, he obtains the colonel's release. 
In return for this kindness Colonel Talbot 
promises to intercede with the English king 
in Waverley's behalf. The way for such a 
plea has fortunately been paved by the 
revelation of some of the mysteries attending 
the arrest of Waverley for desertion and 
treason. By means of a packet of letters, 
which Donald Bean Lean's daughter has 
slipped into Edward's ba^age, he learns 
that her father, the Highland robber, being 
in the service of Prince Charles Edward, and 
wishing to gain favor in his eyes, has con- 
cocted a plot whereby the British govern- 
ment was led to believe that Waverley was a 
traitor, thereby forcing him into the army of 
the insurgent prince. Only one question now 
remains unexplained. Who was the girl that 
nursed him during his fever in the peasant's 
hut? 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



80 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

Before the solution is found to this ques- 
tion the insurgent army is totally defeated, 
Fergus Maclvor is captured, the prince es- 
capes, and Waverley, who is now also a 
fugitive, pays a secret visit to the mansion 
of the Baron of Bradwardine, for he fs 
anxious to learn about the fate of some of his 
friends. He finds the baron in hiding in 
that selfsame hut where he had been niu'sed 
during his fever. Here he learns that it was 
Rose Bradwardine who niu^ed him. It was 
Rose, also, who had paid Donald Bean Lean 
with her mother's jewelry in order to induce 
him to rescue Waverley after his arrest for 
treason. Overcome with gratitude for such 
devotion, Edward asks the Baron of Brad- 
wardine for his daughter's hand. He can 
now marry her in security; for, thanks to the 
kindness of Colonel Talbot and other in- 
fluential Englishmen, both he and the baron 
have been pardoned. 

It takes the loquacious baron an hour to 
tell Rose of Edward's love for her. It takes 
Edward just five minutes to convince her 
of it. 

Their happiness would now be complete 
but for the sad fate of Fergus Maclvor, who 
has been condemned to death. He faces the 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



WAVERLEY 81 

executioner unflinchingly, expressing no re- 
gret for his fate, but only the hope that 
^^they will set my head on the Scotch gate, 
that I may look, even after death, to the blue 
hills of my own country, which I love so 
dearly/' 

With this shadow to mar the simshine 
of their happiness, Edward and Rose are 
married. 

Thus we cdme toythe end of the romantic 
tale, and we must again retvun to the drab 
reality of our eve^-day existence. But be- 
fore so doing, let^^^us, together with Flora 
Maclvor, who/hAs joined the Scottish 
Benedictine nUns inV Paris, bid the happy 
couple good luck and\dieu! 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



DICKENS 

^'nnHE child is father of the man^' was never 
-^ better illustrated than in the case of Charles 
Dickens. His first friends were hooks, good books. 
He read books of travel and the *^ Arabian Nights,^* 
Cervantes, Fielding, and Smollett. And as a child 
he learned to know and to love England — the Eng^ 
land of pleasant couviry lanes, hedge^bordered, thai 
ran to the sea or to quiet green open spaces before 
stately cathedrals. 

And he knew, too, the horror of mean London 
streets and numbing drudgery. For two years of 
his childhood he pasted labels upon blacking bot- 
tles, lived in an attic with two ragamuffins, and 
when he saw his parents once a week, he had to go 
to prison, where his father was confined for debt. 
Some of this London that he knew is in ^^Oliver 
Twist,^^ and it crops out in other tales. Most of it, 
however, is in ^^ David Copperjield,^^ where his father 
is depicted as the immortal Micawber. 

The joy of life and the bitterness, the kindliness 
of men and the cruelty. These things were burned 
into the mind and soul of the sensitive boy. They 
are in the books of the man. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 




CHABLES DICKENS 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



DOMBEY AND SON 

By CHARLES DICKENS 

CoDdensation by 
CAROLINE TICKNOR 

nPHIS story opens in the gloomy mansion of 
^ Mr. Dombey, head of the famous house 
of Dombey and Son, who is exulting in the 
birth of "little Paul/' heir to his name and 
wealth. 

This great event is followed by the death 
of Mrs. Dombey, who breathes her last 
clasping her little daughter Florence to her 
heart. This child, neglected by her proud, 
cold father, tries vainly to win his love, but 
he, with all his hopes and his affection cen- 
tered upon his son, finds no place in his 
heart for Florence. 

All the advantages that wealth can offer 
are heaped on little Paul, who is a delicate 
child, old far beyond his years, and totally 
unfitted to fulfil his father's expectations. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



84 ONE HUNDRED BEST N0VEU3 CONDENSED 

While gentle and loving to those about him, 
Paul's adoration for his sister Florence sur- 
passes all his other interests, a fact which 
rankles in the breast of his father, who would 
be first in the affection of his son. 

Wishing to hasten Paul's education, Mr. 
Dombey sends him to Doctor Blimber's 
school, famed for its method of crushing out 
each boyish trait and making learned prigs of 
all its pupils. Here the boy finds a friend and 
champion in Toots, the head boy of the 
school, who falls a victim to the charms of 
Florence, but in the end consoles himself by 
marrying her faithful maid, the sprightly 
Susan Nipper. 

The story of Paul's life at Doctor Blim* 
ber's, where his weak frame is tried beyond 
endurance and finally breaks down, is a 
pathetic one, althou^ it is enlivened by 
much that is amusing and absurd in the 
descriptions of the school and of the Blimber 
family. 

Fatally ill, the boy is carried home to the 
oig house, where all the skill in London, 
coupled with his sister's devotion, cannot 
save him, and after lingering awhile he slips 
away from the grand future his father has so 
carefully arranged. The death-bed scene 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



DOMBEY AND SON 85 

where little Paul leaves the big house for- 
ever is one of the most famous in fiction. 

Qasped in his sister's arms, the dying boy 
murmurs: "How fast the river runs . . . 
it's very near the sea. I hear the waves.'' 
. . . "And now there was a shore before him — 
Who stood on the bank." He sees his 
mother there awaiting him and whispers^ 
'The light about her head is shining on me 
as I go." 

The bereaved father, in an agony of grief 
and blasted hopes, tmns coldly from the 
heartbreaking appeal of his sorrowing daugh- 
ter, who pleads for some response in this dark 
hour. Bidding her seek her own apartments, 
he shuts himself up in his rooms alone. 

Beside the dark threads in this story are 
woven many bright ones which center in 
the humble dwelling of old Solomon Gills, 
maker of ships' instruments, and his devoted 
nephew, Walter Gay, who with their good 
friend Captain Cuttle form a delightful trio. 
The captain, who wears a hook in place of 
his right hand, and suffers patiently under 
the insults and abuse of his landlady, the 
terrible Mrs. MacStinger, is one of Dickens's 
best-beloved characters. 

Walter, who has a modest position in the 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



86 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

great house of Dombey, watches with sym- 
pathy and admiration the career of the neg- 
lected daughter of his employer, and upon 
one occasion has the joy of rescuing her when 
she is lost in London. From the night when 
the frightened child is warmed and com- 
forted at the sign of the "Wooden Mid- 
shipman'' Florence holds Uncle Sol and 
Walter in warmest regard. When, later, 
during Paul's illness, Walter comes to plead 
for a loan to save his uncle's property, the 
S3rmpathetic boy at once becomes his cham- 
pion and secures the money from his father. 
From this time on Paul takes a special in- 
terest in Walter and on his death-bed begs 
that he shall be remembered. This message 
Florence brings to Walter, pledging to him 
thenceforth her sisterly affection. 

The fortunes of the house of Dombey are 
guided principally by the clever and "cat- 
like" manager, James Carker, with gleaming 
teeth and a perpetual smile, the instrument 
and confidant of Dombey, who by his flattery 
and cunning has gained almost complete 
control over his master's business. Working 
always to satisfy his own ambitions, he mis- 
trusts the growing partiality for Walter Gay 
and sends him on a voyage to the Indies, ex- 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



DOMBEY AND SON 87 

periencing keen satisfaction when the youth 
is shipwrecked and reported drowned. 

This loss adds one more sorrow to those 
already the portion of Florence, whose father, 
emerging from the gloom of his apartments, 
seeks to divert his mind by going on a journey 
with his friend Major Bagstock, a garrulous 
old society beau. They travel to Leaming- 
ton, where Mr. Dombey is introduced to some 
of the major's friends, and meets Mrs. 
Skewton and her widowed daughter, the cold 
and beautiful Edith Granger, who at once 
attracts his fancy. 

Edith is proud, scornful, imperious, and 
for these traits the proud and dominating 
man admires her the more. He offers her 
wealth and position, and she, needing these 
things, accepts him, scorning meanwhile 
both the man and his offering, but will- 
mg to satisfy the irritating demands of her 
scheming mother, with whom her life is un- 
endurable. 

A loveless marriage follows and the haughty 
wife asserts her own strong will, refuses to 
further the social ambitions of her husband, 
and enrages him by showering affection upon 
Florence. At last, goaded by Dombey's 
effort to break her spirit and ready to be 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



88 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

revenged upon him for his endeavor to hu- 
miliate her by orders sent her through his 
agent, Carker, she consents to fly from her 
home at the entreaty of her husband's paid 
minion, who from the first had fallen a victim 
to her beauty. Having revenged herself 
upon her husband by thus humiliating him, 
Edith proceeds to cast off Carker, whom she 
despises; she meets him at Dijon by appoint- 
ment, and in the moment when he is glorjdng 
in the attainment of his desire turns on him, 
denoimces him, and before he can stop her 
rushes from the apartment, making good her 
escape, while he is left to confront his pur- 
suer, her enraged husband, who has tracked 
them to Dijon. 

Foiled and entrapped, Carker flees back to 
England, eluding his pursuer, only to be again 
tracked to his hiding-place. When he believes 
himself safe from detection, he suddenly 
spies Dombey advancing toward him across 
the platform of a railway station, and, dodging 
in affright on to the tracks behind him, Carker 
is killed by an oncoming train. 

In the hour of her father's humiliation 
Florence once more turns to him with loving 
protestations, but he, enraged at the remem- 
brance that she has ever won the love he has 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



DOMBEY AND SON 89 

sought vainly, casts her off with an oath and 
strikes her brutally. 

Partially stunned and feeling herself home- 
less and fatherless, Florence rushes half 
crazed into the streets of London, and, faint- 
ing with exhaustion, finds shelter at the 
"Wooden Midshipman," now in the charge 
of Captain Cuttle. Following the sudden 
disappearance of old Sol Gills, the captain 
has taken possession of the place, not know- 
ing if his friend, whose life had become 
insupportable without his beloved nephew, 
was alive or dead. 

Tenderly welcomed to this humble home, 
Florence remains in hiding until the unex- 
pected arrival of Walter, who suddenly ap- 
pears upon the scene, retiuning from a series 
of perilous adventures. Walter the brother 
is speedily transformed into Walter the 
lover, and the yoimg couple are united, to the 
delight of Captain Cuttle, also of old Sol 
Gills, who reappears from joiuneying to 
foreign parts in vain search for some news of 
Walter. 

Meanwhile the fortxmes of the house of 
Dombey, weakened by Carker's doubtful 
transactions, and also by the loss of his 
shrewd guidance, go down in ruin, leaving 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



90 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

the proud head of the firm broken in health 
and spirit, with home and fortmie wrecked. 

Then, tenderly forgiving all, Florence goes 
to her father and takes him to her home, 
where after a long illness he arises a changed 
man, repentant of the past, and only caring 
to devote his last days to his daughter and 
her two children — ^Paul who reminds him of 
his lost son, and little Florence, dearest of all 
to his penitent heart. 

This work, which was first issued in serial 
form in 1847, met with immediate success. 
Its pages contain a wealth of incident and 
character, of fim, satire, and pathos. Flor- 
ence is one of Dickens's loveliest creations, 
and Doctor Blimber's school is described in 
his finest vein. Kind Captain Cuttle is famous 
the world over, as are Mr. Toots, Mrs. Pip- 
chin, and old Joe Bagstock. The death-bed 
scene of little Paul reveals the author's 
steadfast faith in immortality, and has done 
much to comfort sorrowing hearts throughout 
the world. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 




GEORGE ELIOT 



Digitized by VjOOQ I'C 



GEORGE ELIOT 

TN the memoirs of George Eliot two hooka are 
-* mentioned which have a special interest, one 
being the first hook she ever read as a child, called 
" The LvrmePs lAfe,^* which gave her great happi- 
ness, and the other Scott's " WaverleyJ' Her friend 
Miss Simcox's article in " The Nineteenth Century 
Review^' tells of George Eliot's appetite for reading. 
^'Somewhere about 1827 a friendly neighhor lent 
^Waverley' to an elder sister of littte Mary Ann 
Evans. It was returned hefore the child had read 
to the end, and in her distress at the loss of the fas- 
dnaiing volume she began to write the story as far 
as she had read it for herself, beginning naiuraUy 
where the story begins, with Waverley^s adventures 
at Tully-Veolan, and continuing until the surprised 
elders were moved to get the book back again.^^ 

It has been claimed (hat George ElioVs highly 
trained mind suppressed the impulsive heart. She 
suffered from bodily ills most all her life, and but for 
her extraordinary mental health she could not have 
accomplished the amount of work that came from 
her brain and pen. Among the many books which 
she published were ^^ Middlemarch,^^ ^^Daniel 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



92 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

Derondaf*' ^^The Spanish Gypsy/* a dramas and 
^^Romola/' which may he called a historical novely 
a story which owes its power of attraction and its 
vitality to its superb presentation of {he charader 
of Tito Melema, who helongs^ not to any one period, 
hvt to every generation. 

^^ Daniel Deronda,** in spite of its distinction and 
its being so ably writteuy has never been a great 
favorite. 

Some one has said that ^^Jane Austen despised 
the greater number of her characters, but George 
Eliot suffered with each of hers.** 

She had a great accumulation of book knowledge, 
but this was opposed in many ways to {he practical 
life led among all sorts and conditions of persons, 
so that at times some of {he spontaneity of joy was 
lacking in her writings. But {here were those fuU 
of patJios, as when she wrote of Maggie TuUiver in 
'' The MiU on the Floss.** 

The death of Mr. Lewes, which occurred in 1878, 
was also the death-blow to her artistic vitality. She 
later married Mr. J. W. Cross, but she never really 
recovered from {he shock of the loss of Mr. Lewes. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROMOLA 

By GEORGE ELIOT 

Condensation by 
PROF. WILLIAM FENWICK HARRIS 

"DOMOLA mia," said the blind scholar, 

^ ^ " thou wilt reach the needful volumes — 
thou knowest them — on the fifth shelf of the 
cabinet." 

Tito rose at the same moment with Ro- 
mola, saying, "I will reach them, if you will 
point them out," and followed her hastily 
into the adjoining small room, where the 
walls were also covered with ranges of 
books in perfect order. 

"There they are," said Romola, pointing 
upward; "every book is just where it was 
when my father ceased to see them." 

Tito stood by her without hastening to 
reach the books. They had never been in 
this room together before. 

"I hope," she continued, turning her eyes 
full on Tito with a look of grave confidence — 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



04 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

"I hope he will not weary youj this work 
makes him so happy/' 

"And me, too, Romola — ^if you will only 
let me say, I love you — ^if you will only think 
me worth loving a little." 

His speech was the softest murmur, and 
the dark, beautiful face, nearer to hers than 
it had ever been before, was looking at her 
with beseeching tenderness. 

"I do love you," murmured Romola; she 
looked at him with the same simple majesty 
as ever, but her voice had never in her life 
before sunk to that murmur. It seemed to 
them both that they were looking at each 
other a long while before her lips moved 
again; yet it was but a moment till she said, 
"I know now what it is to be happy." 

The faces just met, and the dark curls 
mingled for an instant with the rippling 
gold. Quick as hghtning after that Tito set 
his foot on a projecting ledge of the book- 
shelves and reached down the needful vol- 
umes. They were both contented to be 
silent and separate, for that first blissful ex- 
perience of mutual consciousness was all the 
more exquisite for being unperturbed by 
immediate sensation. 

It had all been as rapid as the irreversible 



Digitized by VjOQQIC 



ROMOLA 95 

mingling of waters, for even the eager and 
jealous Bardo had not become impatient. 

When they told her father, he wanted 
time for reflection. "Be patient, my chil- 
dren; you are very yoimg.*' 

"No more could be said, and Romola's 
heart was perfectly satisfied. Not so Tito's. 
If the subtle mixture of good and evil pre- 
pares suffering for hmnan truth and purity, 
there is also suffering prepared for the wrong- 
doer by the same mingled conditions. As 
Tito kissed Romola on their parting that 
evening the very strength of the thrill that 
moved his whole being at the sense that this 
woman, whose beauty it was hardly possible 
to think of as anything but the necessary 
consequence of her noble nature, loved him 
with all the tenderness that spoke in her clear 
eyes, brought a strong reaction of regret that 
he had not kept himself free from that first 
deceit which had dragged him into the danger 
of being disgraced before her. There was a 
sprig of bitterness mingled with that f oimtain 
of sweets/' 

George Eliot's magnificent study of char- 
acter concerns itself with Florence at the 
time when Christopher Columbus was dis- 
covering America, when Savonarola was 

VOL. ra. — 8 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



96 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

prior to Saint Mark's and ruled the city by 
his moral energy and his fanaticism, when his 
pious frenzies, his visions, and his predictions 
of heavenly wrath seemed to the majority of 
his fellow-citizens as coming from a more 
than mortal source; when Charles VIII of 
France invaded Italy; when the plague 
brought dire dismay; when the city was 
distraught by the struggles of the austere 
devotees of Savonarola and the gay partizans 
of pleasure; when the mighty ones of the 
land were united against poor distracted 
Florence; when Piero de' Medici was con- 
spiring to regain the power once held by 
Lorenzo the Magnificent; when finally Flor- 
ence tiUHDied against Savonarola, and he met 
his death in ignominy or martyrdom, as one 
viewed it as foe or partizan. Across the 
scene there fiit the figures of Pico della 
Mirandola, of Fra Bartolommeo, of Domen- 
ico Ghirlandajo, of Cosimo di Piero, of 
Poliziano, of Bernardo del Nero, of Strozzis 
and Tomabuonis, of Niccolo Machiavelli, of 
a '^ promising youth named Michelangelo 
Buonarotti, '^ and many others. All these 
make the setting for the lives of a woman and 
a man and the progress of their souls, the 
one upward and the other downward, as 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROMOLA 97 

wonderfully drawn as ever human lives were 
portrayed by pen of man or woman. 

Florence saw Tito Melema ever making 
his way upward from the day when he f oimd 
himself adrift after shipwreck, and was car- 
ried to the market by the onmipresent Bratti, 
merchant and huckster, and introduced to 
breakfast and a kiss from pretty little Tessa, 
and passed imder the deft hand of the won- 
der-working barber-philosopher Nello. That 
shrewd craftsman with edged tools — ^razor or 
tongue — ^introduced him to the bright and 
powerful folk who frequented his shop as if 
it were a club, and brought him to the notice 
of the blind scholar Bardo, who needed just 
such a clever yoimg student as Tito for a 
helper. From that his path was easy to the 
confidence of the great; Latin secretary to 
the state, embassies to Rome, everything 
was his, even to the envy of Niccolo Machia- 
velli. The world saw only the dazzling suc- 
cess; there were a few who marked "the 
change that came from the final departure of 
moral youthfulness," who saw the perfidies 
and desertions of the dexterous and facile 
Greek, the baseness that smiles and triumphs; 
who knew how he had left to slavery the 
adoptive father who had rescued him and 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



«8 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

made him what he was, how he proved false 
to the memory of Romola's father, who set 
him on his way to triumph in Florence, how 
he betrayed his great patrons, how he de- 
ceived poor Tessa, that "sweet, pouting, 
innocent, round thing," how he threw away 
the great treasure of Romola's love, and how 
his only bitter thought was that a timely, 
well-devised falsehood might have saved him 
from every fatal consequence. 

Over against the figure of the man she 
married stands Romola, "fair as the Floren- 
tine lily before it got quarrelsome and turned 
red,'' as the rhapsodic Nello described her. 
Her contempt of all injustice and meanness, 
the noble serenity with which she accepted, 
though not without inward struggle, all that 
life and duty brought her, the willing service 
she rendered her father, her husband, the 
poor, the sufferers in the plague. Tito's 
abandoned father, even Tessa, her rival to 
the title of wife, the mother of Tito's children, 
the majestic self-possession which at the 
slightest touch on the fibers of affection or 
pity could become passionate with tender- 
ness — all this justified her godfather, Ber- 
nardo del Nero, in his exhortation to her 
father: "Remember, Bardo, thou hast a rare 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROMOLA ^ 

gem of thy own; take care no man gets it 
who is not likely to pay a worthy price. 
That pretty Greek has a lithe sleekness about 
him that seems marvelously fitted for slip- 
ping easily into any nest he fixes his eyea 
upon." 

But he that smiles and triumphs does not 
always triumph to the end. He is sometimes 
found out. So it was with Tito. He had 
made the last preparation for departure to a 
larger field of action. Pursued in the night 
by a crowd of angry men, he barely had time 
to leap from a bridge into the Amo. A long 
swim in the darkness — ^in the tumult of his. 
blood he could only feel vaguely that he was 
safe and might land. But where? The 
current was having its way with him; he 
hardly knew where he was; exhaustion waa 
bringing on the dreamy state that precedes 
imconsciousness. 

But now there were eyes that discerned 
him — ^aged, strong for the distance. Baldas* 
sare — ^his father — ^looking up blankly from 
the search to which his poverty had led him, 
had seen a white object coming along the 
stream — could that be any fortunate chance 
for him? He looked and looked till the ob- 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



100 ONE mjNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

ject gathered fonn; then he leaned forward 
with a start as he sat among the rank green 
stems, and his eyes seemed to be fOled with a 
new light — ^yet he only watched — emotionless. 
Something was being brought to him. 

The next instant a man's body was cast 
violently on the grass two yards from him, 
and he started forward like a panther, 
clutching the velvet tunic as he fell forward 
on the body and flashed a look in the man's 
face. 

Dead — ^was he dead? The eyes were rigid. 
But no, it could not be — ^justice had brought 
him. Men looked dead sometimes, and yet 
the life came back to them. Baldassare did 
not feel feeble in that moment. He knew 
just what he could do. He got his large 
fingers within the neck of the tunic and held 
them there, kneeling on one knee beside the 
body and watching the face. In his eyes 
there was only fierceness. 

Rigid— rigid still. Those eyes with the 
half-fallen lids were locked against vengeance. 
Could it be that he was dead? Surely at 
last the eyelids were quivering; the eyes were 
no longer rigid. There was a vibrating light 
in them — ^they opened wide. 

'^Ah yes! You see me — ^you know me!" 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ROMOLA 101 

Tito knew him; but he did not know 
whether it was life or death that had brought 
him into the presence of his injured father. 
It might be death — ^and death might mean 
this chill gloom with the face of the hideous 
past hanging over him forever. 

But Baldassare's only dread was lest the 
young limbs should escape him. He pressed 
his knuckles against the round throat and 
knelt upon the chest with all the force of his 
aged frame. Let death come now! 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



WASHINGTON IRVING 

pr/ASHINGTON IRVING was bam in New 
^^ York in 178S and died at his home ^^ Sunny- 
side'^ an (he Hudson in 1859. 

Intended for (he law, in which he had no interest, 
impoverished hy (he failure of business ventures, 
Irving turned to literature as a profession, and made 
a success which won for him a position at home and 
abroad as (he most important American man of 
letters of his time. ^^ SalmagundV^ and ^^Diedrich 
Knickerbocker's History of New York from (he 
Beginning of (he World to (he End of (he Dukh 
Dynasty '^ gained him a reputation by their satire 
and comic power. When he went to England he 
found Sir Walter Scott ready to welcome him ae a 
friend and to start him on a literary career (here. 
^'The SketchrBook of Geoffrey Crayon'^ shows the 
charm he found in English life, as well as introduces 
(he world to Rip Van Winkle. ^^ Bracebridge HaW^ 
and " Tales of a Traveler '^ established his fortunes. 
A long stay in Spain led to his ^' Columbus,^' '^ The 
Conquest of Granada,^^ and ^'The AQumbraJ* 
On his return to America his reception was (hat of a 
great personage. The traditions of men of letters 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 




WASHINGTON IRVING 



Digitized by LaOOQ IC 



Digitized by VjQOQ IC 



WASHINGTON IRVING 103 

in our diplomatic profession had already hegun, and 
Irving was sent as ambassador to Spain. 

His laier years produced his lives of OoldsmiOi, 
Mohammed, and Washington. The days of pains- 
taJdng investigation of sources had not yet arrived; 
it was as a man of letters rather than as a scholar 
thai Irving vyrote his historical hooks; the charm of 
his personality and the power to visualize people and 
circumstances helped him greatly. But his really 
creative and original work, such as ^^The Sketch- 
Book^^ and *^ Knickerbocker/^ urill always find the 
most devoted readers of the earliest American man of 
letters. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



THE LEGEND OF SLEEPY 
HOLLOW 

By WASHINGTON IRVING 

Condensation by 
MABEL HERBERT URNER 

TN a sequestered cove of the Hudson lies the 

drowsy valley of Sleepy Hollow — once a 
remote, enchanted region, abounding in 
haimted spots and twilight superstitions. 

The dreamy, visionary Dutch folk, de- 
scendants of the early settlers, were given to 
marvelous beliefs. Many were their fireside 
tales of ghosts and evil spirits. 

The most awesome wraith of this bewitched 
neighborhood was a headless figure on a pow- 
erful black charger, which at midnight rode 
forth from the church^graveyard. 

At every coimtry fireside were told blood- 
curdling stories of the weird and ghoulish 
pranks of this headless horseman of Sleepy 
HoUow. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



THE LEGEND OF SLEEPY HOLLOW 106 

Perhaps the most superstitious soul through- 
out the valley, in the days just following the 
Revolution, was the country schoolmaster, 
Ichabod Crane. Tail, lank, long-limbed, he 
was a grotesque figure, yet not lacking in 
conceit. 

As was the custom he led an itinerant life, 
boarding with the farmers whose children he 
taught. Since he brought the local gossip 
and helped with the chores, his periodical 
visitations were welcomed by the housewives. 

He also enlivened the long wintry evening 
with direful stories of witchcraft. In a snug 
chimney comer before a crackling wood fire 
there was fearsome pleasure in these blood- 
chilling tales. 

But for this gruesome enjoyment, how 
dearly he paid when out alone at night! 
What menacing shadows beset his path! 
Every snow-covered bush stood a sheeted 
specter in his way. 

However, it was not only these phantoms 
of the night that disturbed his peace, for his 
days were haimted by the most bewitching 
of all witches — ^a woman. 

In his weekly sin^g class was Katrina 
Van Tassel, only child of a substantial 
farmer. Famed for her beauty and vast 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



106 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

expectations; the enraptured Ichabod became 
her ardent suitor. 

Gloatingly he surveyed her father's rich 
meadowlands; the overflowing bams, and the 
great; sloping-roofed farm-house filled with 
treasure of old mahogany^ pewter, and silver. 
All these rich possessions made Ichabod covet 
the peerless Eatrina. 

The most formidable of his many rivals 
was the roistering Brom Van Brunt, nick- 
named, from his Herculean frame, Brom 
Bones. 

He was the hero of aU the coimtry roimd, 
which rang with his feats of strength and 
hardihood. A reckless horseman and fore- 
most in all rural sports, he was always ready 
for a fight or a frolic. 

Yet even the old dames, startled out of 
their sleep as he clattered by at midnight, 
looked upon his wild pranks with more good- 
will than disfavor. 

This rantipole hero had chosen to lay siege 
to the blooming Katrina. And when on a 
Sunday night his horse was tied to Van 
Tassel's palings aU other suitors passed on 
in despair. 

Ichabod, however, in his r61e of singing- 
master, made frequent visits at the farm. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



THE LEGEND OF SLEEPY HOLLOW 107 

Neither old Van Tassel, an easy, indulgent 
soul, nor his busy housewife interfered with 
the pedagogue's suit; yet his wooing was 
beset with diflBiculties. 

Bronx Bones had declared a deadly feud, 
and as Ichabod shrewdly avoided a phys- 
ical combat, he became the object of 
whimsical persecutions by Brom and his 
boon companions. 

They smoked out his singing school, broke 
into and turned topsy-turvy his schoolhouse, 
and, still worse, taught a scoimdrel dog to 
whine as a rival instructor in psalmody to the 
fair Katrina. 

One fine autumnal afternoon Ichabod, in 
a pensive mood, sat enthroned on the lofty 
stool from which he ruled his laggard 
pupils. 

The buzzing stillness of the school-room 
was broken by a galloping messenger, who 
brought an invitation to a "quilting frolic" 
that evening at Van TasseFs. 

Promptly dismissing school, Ichabod fur- 
bished up his only suit of rusty black, and 
soon rode forth — ^a gallant cavalier to this 
bidding of his lady fair. 

Gunpowder, the bony old plow-horse, bor- 
rowed from the farmer with whom Ichabod 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



108 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

was domiciled; was a suitable steed for hie 
long; gaunt frame. 

Jogging slowly along, it was after simdown 
when he reached Van TassePs, where were 
gathered the farmer folk of the surrounding 
country. 

However, it was not the buxom lasses 
which held Ichabod enthralled; it was the 
siunptuous abundance of the supper-table. 
Such luscious ham and chicken, and heaping 
platters of doughnuts, crullers, and ginger 
cakes! 

Ichabod's rapacious appetite did ample 
justice to this repast, while he gloated over 
the opulence of which some day he might be 
master. 

Soon the soimd of fiddling bade all to the 
dance. With Katrina as his partner, smiling 
graciously at his amorous oglings, the lank 
but agile Ichabod clattered triiunphantly 
about, while Brom Bones, sorely smitten 
with jealousy, kept broodingly aloof. 

Later, Ichabod joined the sager folk, who 
sat smoking and spinning tales of ghosts and 
apparitions, and of the headless horseman 
that nightly tethered his steed among the 
churchyard graves. 

Most terrifying were the adventures of 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



THE LEGEND OF SLEEPY HOLLOW 109 

those who, on dark nights, had met that 
gruesome specter. Even Brom Bones testi- 
fied that once, overtaken by the midnight 
trooper, he had raced with him to the church 
bridge, where the horseman had vanished in 
a flash of fire. 

When at a late hour the revel broke up 
Ichabod lingered for the customary lovers' 
talk. What passed at that interview with 
the heiress was never known, but when he 
finally sallied forth it was with a dejected^ 
chopfallen air. 

Had Katrina's encouragement been only a 
coquettish trick to secure her conquest of his 
rival? 

It was near the witching midnight horn* 
that the crestfallen Ichabod pursued his 
solitary travel homeward. All the stories of 
ghosts and goblins told that evening now 
crowded hauntingly upon him. 

The night grew deeper and darker as he 
approached the lonely churchyard — som- 
brous scene of many of the tales. Suddenly 
through the leaf-stirred stillness came the 
clatter of hoofs! Something huge and mis- 
shapen loomed above the crouching shadows. 

In quaking terror Ichabod dashed ahead^ 
but the unknown followed close. Then the 

VOL. III. — 9 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



110 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

moonlight, through a rifting cloud, revealed 
the headless horseman! More ghastly still, 
his head rested on the pommel of his saddle! 

Away they flew, Ichabod madly spurring 
Gunpowder, while the sinister horseman came 
galloping after. 

As they reached the haunted road, turning 
oflf to Sleepy Hollow, the girth of Ichabod's 
saddle broke. Gripping his steed around the 
neck, as the saddle slipped from beneath him, 
he still plunged on, with the ghostly rider 
pursuing him. 

The church bridge, where in Brom Bones's 
tale the specter had vanished, was just ahead. 
Another moment and old Gimpowder was 
thundering over the resounding planks. 

Here Ichabod, casting a backward glance, 
saw the goblin rising in his stirrups and in 
the very act of hurling his head. 

The horrible missile crashed against Icha- 
bod's cranium and he plunged headlong into 
the road — ^while Gimpowder and the ghostly 
horseman swept on. 

The next moming.the old horse was found, 
saddleless, grazing at his master's gate. But 
no Ichabod ! 

In the road by the church was found the 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



THE LEGEND OF SLEEPY HOLLOW 111 

saddle. Farther on was the trampled hat of 
the unfortunate pedagogue — ^and close beside 
it a shattered pumpkin! 

The whole neighborhood was aroused. 
Brom Bones's story and all the other weird 
tales were called to mind, and the good folk 
sagely concluded that Ichabod had been 
carried oflf by the headless horseman. 

Soon the school was removed to a less 
haunted section. Another pedagogue reigned, 
and Ichabod became only a legend. 

It is true that several years later an old 
farmer, returning from New York, brought 
news that Ichabod was still alive; that fear 
of the goblin and chagrin at his dismissal by 
the heiress had caused his flight; that in 
another part of the country he had taught 
school, studied law, and become justice of 
the Ten-pound Court. 

Brom Bones, who, shortly after his rival's 
disappearance, had led the blooming Katrina 
to the altar, was observed to look exceedingly 
knowing whenever the story of Ichabod was 
related. At the mention of the ptunpkin he 
never failed to laugh heartily, which led some 
to suspect that he knew more about the 
matter than he chose to disclose. 

The old country wives, however, maintain 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



112 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS (X)NDENSED 

to this day that Ichabod was spirited away 
by the headless horseman. And many grue- 
some tales of the pedagogue's fate are still 
told round the wintry firesides of Sleepy 
Hollow. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 




JAMES FENIMOBE COOPER 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



COOPER 

TJfARDLY had Washington Irving begun the 
-^ -^ career wiXh his '^ Knickerbodcer History^^ and 
''The Sketchr-Book '^ which made him the first Ameri- 
can man of letters to achieve an international repu- 
tation when he was joined in that pleasant eminence 
by James Fenimore Cooper. 

Irving wrote on the traditional lines of English 
literature. Cooper found something new. He 
presented the recent but romantic past of his own 
country on land and sea, and he introduced to the 
world the figure of the noble red man, with the gla- 
mour of mystery which the unknown always adds to 
romance. He is much more read to-day than 
Irving; his hold in foreign lands is particularly 
strong, probably due to the fact that his style could 
only be improved by translation. The thrill that 
comes from a wholesome story of adventure has a 
lure for all humanity, as have brave deeds of der' 
ring-do. The thirteen^ear-old Yale freshman (who 
never got his degree) is known to thousands who have 
never heard of his great president, Timothy 
Dwight. " The Spy,'' " The Pilot;' '' The Last of 
the Mohicans," ''The Two Admirals," ''The 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



114 ONE mJNDRED BEST N0VEI5 CONDENSED 

Pioneers,'' " The Prairie,'' " The Red Rover," " The 
Paihfinier'' are some of his hooks moat familiar, 
hvi every one has his own particular taste in advent- 
ure. Bon voyage to the young in heart who have yet 
to meet James Fenimore Cooper. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



THE LAST OF THE 
MOHICANS 

By JAMES FENIMORE COOPER 

Condensation by 
THOMAS D^ CONNOLLY 

TN the third year of the war between France 
and England in North America news came 
to Ford Edward, where lay General Webb 
with five thousand men, that Montcalm was 
advancing on Fort William Henry, held by 
the veteran Scotchman, Munro. Webb, in- 
stead of going to the assistance of Mimro^ 
sent him a scant handful of men. 

Munro's daughters, Cora and Alice, de- 
termined to visit their father, despite the 
danger. Captain Duncan Heyward, deeply 
in love with Alice, offered to serve as their 
escort. The party set out by little-fre- 
quented paths, guided by an Indian, Le 
Renard Subtil, or Magna, as he was known to 
his tribe. An eccentric singing-master, David 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



116 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

Gamut, attached himself to the party, despite 
Heyward's protests. 

As the unsuspecting travelers pressed 
through the thick forests, a savage face 
glared at them from a thicket. Magua was 
leading the party into a trap. 

Two men sat by the banks of a small 
stream about an hour's journey from Fort 
Edward. One, a magnificent specimen of 
Indian manhood, had a terrifying emblem of 
death painted upon his naked breast. The 
other, tall, with the lithe muscles of the 
woodsman, was white. 

"Listen, Hawkeye," said the Indian, "we 
Mohicans came and made this land ours. 
Then came the Dutch, and gave my people 
the fire-water. Then they parted with their 
land. Now I, a chief and a sagamore, have 
never seen the sun shine except through the 
trees, and have never visited the graves of 
my fathers. And my son, Uncas, the last of 
the tribe, is the last of the Mohicans.'' 

As his name was mentioned, Uncas slipped 
into view and seated himself gravely by the 
side of his father, Chingachgook. 

Almost inmiediately the little cavalcade 
from Fort Edward came into view. Hey- 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



THE LAST OF THE MOHICANS 117 

ward, addressing Hawkeye, inquired as to 
their whereabouts, explaining that their 
Indian guide had lost his way. 

"An Indian lost in the woods?" said the 
scout in perplexity, "I should like to look 
at the creature." 

He crept stealthily into the thicket, to 
return after a moment, his suspicions fully 
confirmed. Explaining to Heyward that the 
Indian had tried to trap the party, he out- 
lined a plan for the capture of the traitor. 
But, as they stole upon him. Magna divined 
their plan and vanished in the thick woods. 

Hawkeye realized the serious plight of the 
little party and volunteered to help them. 
They set oflf up the river in a canoe, bound 
for a cave where none but the scout and his 
Indian companions had ever set foot. This 
haven they reached in safety, although pur- 
sued by a band of Indians as they crossed 
the lake. 

They had barely reached their island 
fortress when Magua's band appeared on 
their trail. The scout and his companions 
valiantly defended their cave against a horde 
of Indians, inflicting heavy losses until their 
ammunition gave out. Then Cora, seeing 
that resistance was useless, begged the scout 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



118 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

and two Indians to slip down the river and 
attempt to secure reinforcements at Fort 
William Henry. But a short while after the 
scouts set off Magna and his warriors 
appeared and made captive the whites who 
remained in the cave. 

Magna divided his band, and set off with 
his captives, attended by a handful of braves. 
He offered to send Alice to her father if 
Cora would go with him to his wigwam. 
Alice indignantly refused, and Magna, en- 
raged, prepared to torture his captives. 

Just as a brave rushed at Alice, with toma- 
hawk raised, a rifle cracked, and the Indian 
dropped. Hawkeye, followed by Uncas and 
Chingachgook, rushed upon the bewildered 
Indians; only Magna escaped the fury of 
their attack. The captives were freed, and 
in a short time the party entered Fort Will- 
iam Henry, despite the fact that Montcalm 
was attacking it. 

Their stay in the fort was brief, however, 
for Munro, his forces heavily outnumbered 
by those of Montcalm, was forced to capitu- 
late. Montcalm promised that the defend- 
ers of the fort should be permitted to depart 
for Ford Edward, and guaranteed that they 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



THE LAST OF THE MOHICANS 119 

should not be molested. Munro agreed, and 
the English abandoned the stronghold. 

As the women and children were filing 
across the plain before the fort, an Indian 
reached out for a trinket on the breast of a 
woman who bore a child in her arms. Af- 
frighted, the woman drew back, whereupon 
the Indian seized the child and dashed it to 
the ground, then buried his tomahawk in the 
head of the woman. In an instant the 
Indians of Montcalm's army fell upon the 
helpless women and children. Death was 
everywhere and in horrible forms. 

Suddenly Magna caught sight of Cora 
and Alice, who stood helpless by a pile of 
slain. He seized the terrified girls and 
hurried them oflf into the woods. Gamut, 
whom the Indians venerated as one insane, 
was permitted to accompany them. 

A few days later Hawkeye and his Indian 
companions, with Heyward and Munro, 
stood on the bloody plain. They had searched 
carefully for the bodies of the girls, but with- 
out success. Hawkeye, certain that Magna 
had carried them off, searched diligently for 
the trail. Suddenly they found it, and the 
little party set off after the wily Magna. 

The trail led to an Indian village, where 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



120 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

they came upon Gamut, ludicrously attired 
as an Indian warrior^ Heyward, disguised 
as a medicine-man, entered the camp with 
Gamut. He had been in the encampment 
but a short while when an old chief requested 
him to drive the evil spirit from the wife of 
one of his young men. As Heyward was 
preparing for the unwelcome task, an Indian 
was brought into the camp, and all thought 
of the woman vanished at the news that the 
prisoner was Uncas, deadly foe of the tribe. 

Soon, as the excitement over the captive 
subsided, the old chief remembered the sick 
woman, and escorted Heyward to her cham- 
ber, in a cave of the neighboring mountain. 
As Heyward, alone in the chamber, save for 
the dying woman, looked aroimd him, he 
was startled by a great, shaggy bear which 
padded noiselessly in. Suddenly its head 
slipped oflf and, Heyward, astounded, was 
gazing at Hawkeye, who, thus attired, had 
made his way into the Indian village. 

As the scout rearranged his disguise, Hey- 
ward, hearing a slight noise in another 
chamber, investigated, and found Alice there. 
With Hawkeye's assistance he managed to 
bring the girl from the chamber and stole 
out of the village. Hawkeye, still in the 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



THE LAST OF THE MOHICANS 121 

character of a bear, fearlessly entered the 
cabin where Uncas was imprisoned, and 
succeeded in liberating him. Together they 
made their way into the forest. 

Magna, although keeping Alice with his 
own tribe, had intrusted the care of Cora to 
a friendly tribe of Delawares. Immediately 
after the escape of Alice he hurried to the 
encampment of the Delawares to claim Cora. 
By Indian law, the girl was his captive, and 
he bore her away, despite the intervention of 
Uncas, a hereditary chief of the tribe. 

As soon as he had vanished in the forest, 
the tribe, under the leadership of Uncas, 
prepared to follow him and war against his 
people. In their hideous war panoply they 
hurried on Magua's trail. 

A bloody battle was fought between the 
two Indian tribes, and the forces of Le 
Renard Subtil crushingly defeated. Seeing 
that the day was lost, the wily savage seized 
Cora in his arms and hurried toward the 
mountains, Uncas, Heyward, and Hawkeye 
in hot pursuit. 

Cora, knowing the fate that lay before her, 
suddenly refused to move from the ledge on 
which she stood. 

"Woman! '^ cried Magna, raising his knife. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



122 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

"choose — ^the wigwam or the knife of Le 
Subtil?'' 

As he spoke; Uncas thudded down beside 
him, having jumped from a fearful height to 
the ledge. Magna, a ferocious smile on 
his dusky face, plunged his knife into the 
body of his prostrate enemy. While Magna 
gloated over the dying Uncas one of his 
companions sheathed his knife in Cora's 
bosom. 

With a wild cry of triimiph, Magna, after 
leaping a wide fissure, made for the summit 
of the mountain. A single bound would 
carry him to the brink of the precipice and 
assure his safety. 

He shouted, defiantly: "The palefaces are 
dogs! The Delawares, women! Magna 
leaves them on the rocks for the crows!" 

He turned and leaped for the height, but 
fell short, and only saved himself by grasping 
a bush that grew from the side of the moun- 
tain. As he slowly pulled himself up. Hawk- 
eye's rifle cracked from below. Magna, 
shaking his hand in defiance of his enemy, 
shot downward to destruction. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 




W. CLARK RUSSELL 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



RUSSELL 

HTHE auOuyr of '' The Wreck of the 'Grosvenor' " 
-^ was horn in New York, February 24) 18Ii4; 
he was the son of Henry RitsseU, author of the popur- 
lar song, ^^ Cheer, Boys, Cheer.'^ He was educated 
ai the famous Winchester in England, and at Bou- 
logne in France. At thirteen he shipped on a Brit- 
ish merchantman and served for eight years, which 
gave him first-hand information for the stories which 
have for so long been a delight to all who love a tale 
of the sea. His first hook was ^^John Holdsworth, 
Chief Mate^^; it was followed hy a rapid and 
lengthy succession of tales of the sea in a clear and 
picturesque style with abundant dramatic skill. 
This first hook won him a devoted audience, in- 
creased the next year hy the story which readers will 
most readily associate with his name, *' The Wreck 
of the 'Grosvenor^^^; in addition to heing a good 
story, it pleads for hetter treatment of English 
sailors, especially in matters of food. The proper 
care of the sailorman has always heen one of the 
things needing attention. In addition to heing a 
prolific writer of hooks, he was also a newspaper 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



124 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

man, writing ^^leaders^* or editorial artideafor ''The 
London Daily Telegraph.*^ These were of enough 
importance to he gathered together in ^'Rownd 
the GaUey Fire" and other volumes. He died in 
1911. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



THE WRECK OF THE 
''GROSVENOR" 

By W. CLARK RUSSELL 

Condensation by 
JAMES B. CONNOLLY 

AX/E were ooimd out of London with a 
^ ^ general cargo. The wind dying out, 
we had to come to anchor in the Downs. 
The crew had been grumbling about the 
grub, and were now grumbling yet more. I 
was second officer, and to me came the cook, 
saying, "Mr. Royle, would you mind tasting 
this?'' and handed me a bit of a ship's bis- 
cuit. ^' Sugar, molasses, tea, and pork — ^if 
they call 'em that — ^they're all the same 
rotten mess, sir." 

The biscuit was bad, and though it was not 
my place to do so, I took it to Captain 
Coxon, but got nothing from him except 
curses and the cold advice to mind my own 
affairs. Mr. Duckling, the first officer, added 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



126 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

a few obsequious remarks on his own account. 
The result was that the crew, getting no re- 
dress, refused to make sail on the ship and 
were put ashore. Next morning a crimp 
came down from London with a fresh crew. 

A fair wind sprang up, the ship was got 
under way, but we were not clear of the 
Channel when the new crew were also com- 
plaining of the grub. Hot words were 
passed between them and the captain, so hot 
that the captain had to take notice. He 
finally promised to put into some handy 
port, in Spain or elsewhere along the route, 
and lay in a fresh supply of ship's stores. 

''What injustice in the meanness of owners 
and captains!" I thought. Here were good 
sailors and ordinarily harmless men who 
might be made into criminals, and all to the 
end that our banking balances might be 
kept large and our national power supreme. 
Without the British sailor there would be no 
British Empire, and what treatment is 
meted out to him! He submits to hardships 
and danger, and receives low wages, poor 
food, and mean living-quarters; even should 
he be granted a hearing for a grievance, nine- 
teen out of twenty persons appointed to 
investigate the trouble are qualified neither 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE WBECK OF THE "GROSVENOR" 127 

by experience nor by sympathy to render a 
just verdict. 

The GrosvenoTy of which I was second 
officer, was a fast-sailing, full-rigged little 
ship of five hundred tons. The captain, 
under owner's orders to make what time he 
could to Valparaiso, was out to drive her. 
We were rushing along imder a press of 
canvas when we ran over a small craft of 
some kind. I got a glimpse, in the dark, of 
a mast and a sail before they vanished under 
us. 

No word came to bring her to. I asked 
Captain Coxon, who was on deck, if he was 
not going to try to save the possible survivors. 

''Save be hanged! Why didn't they keep 
out of oiu* way?" 

I knew what I wanted to say; but it is in 
the power of a ship's captain to injiu-e, even 
to ruin, the futiu^e of an officer imder him. 
I held my tongue. 

We ran into a three days' gale. We had 
a terrible time, but managed to live through 
it. As it was nioderating we sighted a 
wreck, a most momnful and piteous sight. 
It was in my watch, and I ordered the ship 
luffed to have a better look at her. What I 
saw was an arm projecting through her 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



128 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

deck-house window. I at once called the 
captain and asked for instructions. 

"Keep her away!" was his order. 

I called him a murderer and appealed to 
the men. They cried to save the lives on 
the wreck. The captain then allowed me to 
take a boat's crew and see what I could do. 

After a hard struggle our boat made the 
wreck. She was an English ship. At no 
little peril I ran along the deck to her house, 
where I found a yoimg girl and her old father. 
Another man was also there alive, but in- 
sane. Seeing a pannikin of fresh water, this 
man grabbed it, drained it, and dropped 
dead. 

When we were back aboard the Grosvenor 
I, for my part in the rescue, was put in irons. 

This wreck incident, added to further 
needless abuse of the men and the further 
failure of the captain to live up to his promise 
of putting in for better food, inflamed the 
crew beyond endurance. They watched their 
chance, rushed the poop in the night, and 
killed the captain. They then killed Mr. 
Duckling. They might have killed me, too, 
notwithstanding that I had shown sympathy 
to them, but somebody had to navigate the 
ship to within fifty miles of the Florida coast. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



THE WBECK OP THE "GROSVENOR'f 129 

which was where they mtended to abandon 
her and row ashore. 

Haying the safety of the young ^1 and 
her old father as well as my own life to think 
of; I agreed to act as navigator. 

I was having my supper in the cabin imder 
the new regime when I felt a touch on my 
arm. I looked up. It was Miss Robertson, 
the rescued girl. Before I could prevent her, 
she took my hand and kissed it. She told 
me then of the wrecked ship. Her father, a 
wealthy Liverpool merchant, was the owner 
of the ship, which had been bound home from 
Cape Town. After the storm, the oflScers and 
crew, fearing the ship would sink under 
them, had taken to the boats. She and her 
father had spent a terrible three days on the 
wreck, and now her father, already a nervous 
wreck, was shaken anew by the frightful 
threats of the mutineers here. She trusted 
to me for the safety of her father and herself. 

Her trust inspired me with new energy. 
To save them I was now ready to play any 
game whatever with Stevens, who was the 
leader of the mutineers. Our boatswain, 
who had not wished to join them, but to save 
his life had done so, was on my side. It was 
he who told me that Stevens was intending 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



130 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

to scuttle the ship before they took to the 
boats, and so leave me and the passengers to 
oiu* fate. 

We planned to frustrate him. By this 
time we had taken Miss Robertson into our 
confidence. One night the boatswain ap- 
parently fell overboard and was drowned; 
but he had not fallen overboard — ^it was a 
box of tenpenny nails, which I had thrown 
over the side. This was the night before 
that day when Stevens went below and bored 
the auger holes which were to do for the ship; 
but as fast as Stevens bored a hole the 
boatswain, who had been hiding below for 
that very thing, followed and plugged it up. 

Thinking he had scuttled the ship, Stevens 
came on deck and led the crew to the boats, 
grinning evilly at Miss Robertson and myself 
as he did so. They had not rowed far from 
the ship when the boatswain showed himself 
on deck. Stevens saw him. "WeVe been 
tricked!^' he cried, and headed back for the 
ship. The wind was rising at the time, but 
there was not enough way yet on the ship to 
outrun the boats. They tried to board us 
by the main chains. As they did, the boat- 
swain with a handspike and I with a revolver 
killed or hurled back into the sea all but one 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



THE WRECK OF THE ''GROSVENOR" 131 

of them. That one was not so bad as the 
others, and we saved him to help work on the 
ship. Throughout the fight Miss Robertson, 
who had been gaining strength with every 
hour, held the wheel so that the ship should 
not be caught aback and the spars come down 
on us. 

We had now to work the ship to the nearest 
land; but the increasing wind made it 
dangerous, with our meager crew, to keep 
sail on her. We worked like dogs to reduce 
sail, but the wind became too much for us. 
It came on us like a solid wall; the seas 
rolled to our tops. Spars cracked and hung 
down over our decks. Only after the most 
exhausting toil did we manage to clear away 
the most dangerous of the broken spars. In 
the height of it poor Mr. Robertson died. I 
read the eleventh chapter of St. John over 
his body. 

In time the wind abated; but the sea, con- 
tinuing to tumble and roar, strained our ship 
so that she sprang a leak. There were not 
enough of us to keep her pumped out. We 
pumped till our arms fell to our sides, but of 
no avail. When the water was to our main 
chains we took to the boats; and it was then, 
when we believed we were doomed to die. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



132 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

that Mary Robertson and I confessed our 
love for each other^ she the daughter of a 
wealthy man and I a poor^ penniless sailor. 

The sun was setting; the sky^ far to the 
north and souths a golden color; the sea was 
a purple glare^ the heavens a tender green 
and blue; and while we were gazing on all 
this glory the ship went down. 

That night, before the rough seas could 
swallow us, a steamer picked us up and took 
us home. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 




Sm GILBERT PARKER 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



PARKER 

^ILBERT PARKER, British novelist, was 
^^ horn at Camden East, Addington, Ontario, on 
ihe SSd of November, 1862. He was educated at 
Ottawa and at Trinity University, Toronto. At 
one time he lived in Australia, and while there was 
editor of ' ' The Sydney Herald J^ In ihe early ^nine- 
ties he began to make a reputation as a writer of 
romantic fiction. 

He took for the subject of some of Ihe most imr 
portant of his stories the history and life of the 
French Canadians. His reputation rests largely 
on the fine descriptive and dramatic quality of these 
Canadian stories. 

^'Pierre and His PeopW^ was followed by **The 
Trail of the Sword,^' ^'When Valmond Came to 
Pontiac,^* ^^An Adventurer of the Norlh,^' and 
*' The Seats of the Mighty'' {dramatized in 1897). 

The scene of " The Battle of the Strong^' is laid 
in the Channel Islands. Parker's chief later 
hooks are *' The Right of Way," published in 1901, 
''Donovan Pasha,'' ''The Ladder of Swords," and 
others. "The Bight of Way" is ihe story of a 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



134 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED- 

man who tried to^^came hade'' after nuxMng a fail- 
tare of his life. 

Parker's Canadian connections and his experi- 
ences in Australia and elsewhere made him a strong 
imperialist in politics. He was elected to Parlior 
merU in 1900 {re-elected 1906-10) as Conservative 
merriber from Gravesend. 

In 1902 Parker was knighted, and he strength- 
ened his position in the party by his energeidc work 
on behalf of the tariff reform. He came to rank, by 
1910, as one of the forem>ost men of the Unionist 
party. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



THE RIGHT OF WAY 

By SIR GILBERT PARKER 

Condensation by 
HELEN B. DOLE 

'* MOT guilty, your Honor ! " Such was the 
*^ unexpected verdict in Jo Portugais's 
murder trial at Montreal. This result was 
due to the remarkable pleading of Charley 
Steele, popularly called "Beauty Steele," a 
brilliant, handsome young lawyer addicted 
to strong drink. His success in this case 
also won for him the hand of the beautiful 
Kathleen Wantage, whom he admired, al- 
though he did not love her, any more than 
she loved him. 

After the trial Jo tried to thank Charley. 
"Get out of my sight,'' he replied; "you are 
as guilty as hell!'' 

Five years later found him still more brill- 
iant and more a slave to the bottle. He 
had corrupted Kathleen's brother Billy, and 
demoralized the popular preacher, the Rev. 

VOL. in. — 11 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



136 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

John Brown. Billy forged Charley^s name 
and squandered twenty-five thousand dollars 
of trust money, but Charley resolved to save 
him from ruin. He went that night to the 
"C6te Dorion" tavern, where he drank 
heavily, quarreled recklessly with some 
rough river-drivers, and was kicked senseless 
and flung into the river. 

Just at that moment Jo Portugais, on a 
raft opposite the tavern, heard the scuffle and 
the splash, jumped into the water, and res- 
cued the insensible man, whom he recognized 
as his former deliverer. Taking him to his 
hut on Vadrome Mountain, near Chaudidre 
Parish, he nursed him seven months till he 
was restored to health, but with his memory 
completely gone. After the cure^s brother, 
M. Loisel, a skilled surgeon, operated on him 
his memory returned. He did not know 
Jo, but his eye chanced to fall on a newspaper 
which told of his own death, of the marriage 
of his wife to a former admirer, and accused 
hkn of having embezzled the trust money. 

What was he to do? He could not go 
l)ack even to clear himself. He decided to 
remain unknown, as Charles Mallard, in 
Chaudidre. The village postmistress, Rosa- 
lie Evanturel, a charming girl of fine family 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



THE RIGHT OF WAY 137 

and convent education, made his acquaint- 
ance by bringing up to him a parcel-post 
package from the surgeon. Charley became 
apprentice to the elderly, crotchety tailor, 
Louis Trudel, and went to live with him. 
Louis was suspicious of him because he was 
an infidel, and determined to show him a sign 
from heaven so as to convert him. He stole 
from the church door the little iron cross 
blessed by the Pope, and late one night, after 
Charley had gone to bed, heated it red-hot, 
and, rushing upstairs, dropped it on Charley's 
bare chest. Rosalie from the post-office 
opposite noticed a light under the tailor's 
door at that unusual hour and, suspecting 
something wrong, saw through the shutters 
what the man was doing. She hastened 
through the kitchen and upstairs, but too 
late to stay the tailor's hand. He tmned 
and fell headlong and died soon after, calling 
Charley "a black infidel from hell." 

Rosalie took the. cross to the post-office 
and afterward restored it to the church 
door. Chaudidre believed that the tailor's 
death was due to the infidel and was ready 
to mob him, but the cur6 took his part and 
urged the people to pray that he might be 
brought into the fold. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



138 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

Charley lived on in the tailor's house and 
continued his bufflness, giving most of his earn- 
ings to the poor and the sick^ and fighting the 
demon drink which frequently assailed him. 

It was St. Jean Baptiste's Day. Chaudidre 
was filled with festivity. As the militia 
came noisily into the village Charley rescued 
a man and his frightened horse from death. 
The man proved to be John Brown, now 
become a quack doctor and advertising his 
nostrums by singing comic songs. Charley, 
hiding behind some trees, heard him telling 
the story of his old friend ^^ Champagne 
Charley." All day he had been fighting a 
fierce battle with a raging thirst and ques- 
tioning himself about Rosalie. Could he 
marry while his wife was still living? Should 
he tell her all and let the law separate him 
from Kathleen? But Rosalie was a Catholic 
and the church opposed divorce. 

Just then a bottle of whisky fell from the 
pocket of a dnmken habitant at his very 
feet. With an uncontrollable impulse he 
seized it and drained it. Jo Portugais fol- 
lowed him as he staggered home, and Charley 
in his delirium recognized him as the mur- 
derer he had pleaded for. He took Jo by 
the throat, then fell to the floor. For five 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



THE RIGHT OF WAY 139 

days Jo struggled to save his life^ and then 
carried hhn back to Vadrome Mountain. 
Rosalie came to warn him that he was sus- 
pected of stealing the gold vessels from the 
cathedral in Quebec and trying to blow up 
Government House. She had hardly fin- 
ished speaking when the cm:^, the seignemr, 
and the Abb6 Rossignol entered with two 
constables. The abb6 charged Charley with 
the theft, which he stoutly denied. Jo 
called the abb4 aside and confessed his crime 
in order to save his friend, promising to give 
himself up at the end of a year. Meantime 
Charley took a vial of laudanum from his 
pocket, but as he was about to uncork it 
Rosalie sprang from behind a curtain, crying, 
'*If you go, I go also.'' Footsteps were 
heard and he promised not to take the poison. 
The abb6 came to announce that he believed 
Charley's denial. His great temptation still 
remained, but he found help in Rosalie's eyes. 
It was the first time he had yielded to a power 
outside himself. 

The cur6 was planning to give the Passion 
Play at the Indian Reservation of Four 
Mountains at Easter, and asked Charley to 
translate the German text and to make some 
drawings for the costumes. He did so. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



140 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

About this time Rosalie took her crippled 
father to the hospital at Montreal and was 
gone some months, which were months of 
misery for Charley. What could he do? 
He felt that it had been dastardly of him to 
win her love, when he could give her only 
the empty hand, the hopeless hour, the secret 
sorrow in return. He fought his old enemy 
with desperate resolve. 

The week before Easter he went to Mon- 
treal with Jo's dogs and sled. In the dead 
of night he entered the white house on the 
hill where Kathleen was living, made his way 
to a secret cupboard, and removed two 
packets; one contained his mother's pearls 
worth ten thousand dollars, and the other a 
thousand dollars in notes. As he turned, 
after restoring the panel, Kathleen stood 
before him in her nightgown. She was 
asleep. Charley followed her as she walked 
out of the house, across the lawn toward the 
river where the gate was open. Her life was 
in his hands. For a moment he hesitated, 
then noiselessly stole between her and the 
gate, closed and locked it. Her husband, 
not fifty feet away, called to him. 

" Hush ! She's asleep," Charley whispered, 
and disappeared, unrecognized. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



THE RIGHT OF WAY 14L 

Rosalie's father died soon after this and 
she was ill for weeks. The Passion Play 
brought unwelcome crowds to ChaudiSrCy 
the last three days strangers were pro- 
hibited. At the final performance Rosalie 
chose to take the part of Marie Magdalen. 
(It was an act of expiation. After the play 
ended she received absolution.) Far away 
imder the trees sat a man in misery im- 
measurable. It was Charley. That night 
he wrote for a long time; then put the paper 
with the pearls and the money in the safe. 
That same night John Brown lay drunk in 
the church. He lighted a match and threw 
it on a surplice. Soon cries of *^Fire" were 
heard. Charley and Jo saved the sacred 
treasures. Rosalie went back for the little 
cross and Charley dashed in and rescued her. 

By his eloquence the people were induced 
to give one-fortieth of their possessions for a 
new edifice. The money collected was placed 
in his charge and locked in his safe under the 
parish seal. While he and Jo were keeping 
guard over it, Billy Wantage, John Brown, 
and three other rogues, having learned where 
the money was, entered the tailor's house to 
steal it. Billy shot Charley, Jo killed John 
Brown, two of the other men fired at Jo and 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



142 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

killed him. The seal was found intact. 
Rosalie helped bind up Charley's wound and 
the c\ir6 was preparing to give him the 
sacrament. Suddenly the bandage slipped — 
or did he purposely let it slip? — ^and he died 
faithful in his love for Rosalie. She livedo 
rejoicing in her memory of him and in her 
lifelong service for the poor and suffering of 
the parish. 

Printed by pennission of, and arrangement with, Harper 
& Bros., authorised publishers. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 




WINSTON CHURCHILL 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



CHURCHILL 

rr/'INSTON CHURCHILL has hem almost as\ 
^^ versatile as his English namesake. Itisa\^ 
far cry from the story of romantic adventure and the 
historical novel to the tale of reforming/ tendencies, 
political, social^ and religious. He his an acute 
knowledge of what will interest the great public, and 
writes a story about it in such a way that he becomes 
a phenomenal best seller. He has learned the pro- 
fession of writing novels by noveV^writing, and he 
learned to portray people by careful study of those he 
wanted to v^e. He has acquired a power of charac- 
terization that is almost photographic. He uses this 
power to present people of great appeal to a large 
body of Americans, for they are the type known to 
many. All this shows the seriousness of the man. 
That his political novels, for instance, are real 
stories of politics is shown by the fact that a former 
President of the United States and two former gov- 
emors of Massachusetts have consented to retell 
them in shortened form for the readers of ''The 
Boston Post.'' 

Winston Churchill has written his best book, so 
far, in the opinion of most readers, in '^Coniston''; 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



144 ONE mjNDHED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

it porbraya a mtal phase of American political life; 
it has had a potent influence in improving the con- 
duct of our public affairs. In Jethro Bass he 
has created his greatest character, as yet — one that 
will probably take permanent rank in American 
literature. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



CONISTON 

By WINSTON CHURCHILL 

Condensation by 
HON. SAMUEL W. McCALL 

/^^ONISTON was a small village upon a 
^^ shelf on a mountain-side commanding 
one of the gorgeous views characteristic of a 
little commonwealth which has many a 
larger sister state, but none worthier. 

The politics of the place was under the 
control of the Church party, which something 
more than three-quarters of a century ago 
held sway over many of the towns of New 
England. But the career of **01d Hickory" 
was giving a new impulse to democracy and 
portended little good to any ruling class, 
whatever its virtues. All that was needed 
was a leader, and one was found in a young 
man named Jethro Bass, who was the son of 
a well-to-do tanner. Jethro inherited from 
his father a snug little fortune, but his edu- 
cation had been almost wholly neglected. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



146 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

He skilfully made use of the rising discon- 
tent by appeals to ambition and personal 
interest. It became clear that the ruling 
party was to be challenged at the coming 
town meeting, and so presumptuous a thing 
stirred society to its depths. 

The spiritual leader of the Church party 
was the clergyman. His lovely daughter, 
Cynthia, filled a large place in the eyes of 
Jethro, and she was drawn to him by the 
unmistakable signs of power apparent under 
his awkward exterior. They used sometimes 
to meet by chance, and, imlike as they were 
in point of cultivation, they were really very 
much in love with each other, a circumstance 
that had rather to be inferred because Jethro 
was little likely to exercise the initiative and 
say anything about it. Once when in Boston 
he bought a beautiful locket and had en- 
graved upon it, ^'Cynthy from Jethro," but 
he never mustered up the courage to present 
it. When the political tempest was rising 
Cynthia, who sympathized strongly with her 
father's party, decided to go to Jethro and 
plead with him to stop the fight. Before he 
knew her purpose he broke his silence and 
declared his love. Perhaps if he had been 
given a chance for reflection and had not 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



CONISTON 147 

been so upset by his own confession he would 
have granted her request, but that did not 
seem possible at the moment. Cynthia took 
his refusal as a decree of separation, and she 
left him, never to see him again, and he set 
out upon the career which ended in his 
becoming the uncrowned king of his state. 

The town -meeting fight went on and 
Jethro was chosen firat selectman, the only 
office he ever held and in which he continued 
for thirty-six years. Cynthia went to Bos- 
ton, where she became teacher in a high 
school, and in the course of time married 
William Wetherill, the clerk who had sold 
Jethro the locket. She first learned about 
the locket from her husband and confessed 
to him her love for Jethro. After a few 
years she died, leaving a little girl who bore 
her name. Wetherill moved to Coniston, 
taking young Cynthia with him, and went to 
keeping the village store. 

In the years that had gone by Jethro had 
found Coniston too small and was engaged in 
carrying on the government of the state. 
He had his lieutenants in every county and 
possessed such an organization that he was 
able to select most of the men who held the 
important offices and to control their actions 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



148 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

afterwaxd. In brief, he became the "boss" 
of the state and the people who desired 
legislation or offices found it necessary to 
visit him. Avarice did not seem to be the 
motive that controlled him. Railroads were 
being built, manufacturing developed, and 
he took pride in making himself indispen- 
sable in what was going on. When little 
Cynthia appeared at Coniston he at once 
loved her as he would have loved his own 
daughter. Her father was unable to meet 
his obligations at the bank. Jethro quietly 
bought the mortgage and had it assigned 
to himself. Cynthia used to call him Un- 
cle Jethro and loved him as she did her 
father. 

After a time the railroad corporations de- 
cided to consolidate. Jethro, whether he 
feared that they woidd become too large for 
the state or for him, did not approve of 
consolidation. Thereupon they decided to 
overthrow him. The fight began over his 
home post-office. He was known to favor 
an old soldier named Eph Prescott who had 
been badly wounded in the Wilderness and 
whom he had helped in his uphill fight as he 
had helped many another person. The rail- 
road party decided to defeat Jethro's candi- 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



CONISTON 149 

date in order to weaken his prestige in the 
state, and it had the support of many men 
who had formerly done his bidding and of 
the ''Congressman from the district/' the 
usual autocrat in the distribution of offices of 
that class. 

Jethro went to Washington and contrived 
to have an apparently chance meeting be- 
tween President Grant and Eph. Grant 
was attracted by Eph's simplicity. They 
talked over the battles they had fought 
together with a modesty which furnished 
another instance that the noisiest patriots 
are not always the greatest. Grant ap- 
pointed Eph. When the news of the victory 
reached home Jethro's prestige was much 
increased. 

He placed Cynthia in a finishing school in 
Boston. Being a young woman of high 
spirit, she was not happy there. The fact 
that she came from a remote country place 
and of an imknown family very likely had 
something to do with the treatment she re- 
ceived in those primitive days before finishing 
schools had been made wholly safe for de- 
mocracy. One day a paper controlled by 
Isaac Worthington, the head of the corpora- 
tion party, made a savage attack upon 



VOL. ra. — 12 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



150 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

Jethro as a lobbyist and a "boss." The 
paper found its way into Cynthia's hands and 
gave her the greatest distress. She went to 
Jethro and asked him if the story was true. 
He said, '^They hain't put it just as they'd 
ought to be, perhaps, but that's the way I 
done it in the main." His manly confession 
caused her to love him even more than before. 
She withdrew from the finishing school and 
went to teach in Brampton, the town in which 
Worthington lived. Jethro, shaken by the 
effect on Cynthia, determined to withdraw 
from politics. 

The state was in a ferment. Would 
the corporations be able to down Jethro? 
For the first time in nearly forty years 
Jethro did not appear at the Coniston town 
meeting. The enemy won by default. The 
news heartened the corporations everywhere. 
Worthington had always been an enemy of 
Jethro's, although he had accepted his help 
more than once, and, while indulging in very 
virtuous speeches, had practised essentially 
the same methods. His son. Bob, was 
madly in love with Cynthia, but she sub- 
ordinated her own love for Bob completely 
to her fidelity to Jethro. Bob proposed to 
her and she refused. He declared that he 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



C0NI8T0N 151 

would leave his father and earn his own 
living and then claim her on account of what 
he had himself done. He wrote his father, 
telling him his purpose. When the latter 
received the letter he flew into a rage. 
Learning that Cynthia was a teacher in his 
own town, he caUed the conmiittee together, 
the majority of whom he controlled, and had 
them pass a vote ignominiously dismissing 
her from the school. This action aroused 
Jethro and he straightway took up the battle 
again against the corporation magnate re- 
sponsible for the outrage. He swooped down 
upon the Capitol like an eagle. His genius 
for political generalship flashed out with its 
old-time brightness. Messages went to the 
valley towns and to the north coimtry. The 
"throne room " was open again, and, although 
the battle had been apparently lost through 
Jethro's withdrawal, it became evident that 
the corporations were destined to defeat. 
Finally Worthington was willing to surren- 
der and asked Jethro's terms. Jethro said, 
'^ Consent to the marriage of Cynthia and 
Bob." Worthington complied in some high- 
flown letters and the marriage took place. 
Jethro withdrew from the fight and from 
politics and passed his old age near Cynthia^ 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



152 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

blessed by her love and that of her chil- 
dren. (With apologies to Mr. Winston 
Churchill.^ 

Condensed from ConisUm, by Winston Churchill, copy* 
right, 1906, by the Macmillan Company. Used by permission 
of author and publisher. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 




THOMAS HARDY 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



HARDY 

nrnOMAS hardy has been reviled by critics 
-* and Tpvblic as a pessimist, determined to look 
upon the dark side of life. Careful reading reveals 
him dispassionately true to the realities of life. He 
depicts with matchless skill the struggle of human 
beings against fate — the fate of an inner weakness or 
a cruel and inescapable circumstance. 

He paints these struggles with a background of 
nature which is beautiful or sinister, genUe or ugly, 
but is always inevitable and organic. Yet his own 
^^ solitary, brooding, strongly colored mind^' domi- 
nates men and landscape. 

This is especially true in his most famous novel, 
'' Tess." It is at once the most tragically pitiful of 
his books and, if deeply read, the most hopeful, for 
the sorrows of Tess are due to stupidities in our 
dvilizaiion which may be done away with. 

**Jude the Obscure^' is afar mare terrible and de- 
pressing book, for in its tragedy man is more at the 
mercy of chance and the inJierent weakness of hvr 
man nature. 

The rustics of Hardy, comparable only to Shake- 
speare^s, seem to grow oui of the very soil offfiathalf- 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



156 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

Oak, who beat out a fire that menaced the 
wheat-ricks and who remained to work for 
Bathsheba. Fanny Robin, a servant, disap- 
peared, lured by a soldier's red coat. These 
were things to agitate the heads of the 
rustics who gathered at nightfall in the old 
malt-house to drink and to moralize. 

Their heads would have wagged even more 
had they known that Gabriel Oak, only a 
few weeks before, had been his own master, 
and had vainly urged Bathsheba, then a 
penniless maiden, to marry him. Things 
that had seemed commonplace enough had 
abruptly reversed their places in the world. 
A man had died in Weatherbury; a dog had 
driven to death a flock of sheep. These 
were but the inevitable tragedies of life, and 
yet the one had suddenly made Bathsheba 
an heiress; the other had driven Gabriel out 
upon the highways to seek work. Chance or 
fate had kindled a fiire, Gabriel had saved the 
wheat, and the two lives that had been flung 
so far apart were brought near again. 

The pain of seeing another win her whom 
he loved would be intense, but Gabriel pre- 
ferred even this to life where he could not 
see her. He knew that this must happen. 
Bathsheba was young, beautiful, wealthy, 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



PAR FROM THE MADDING CROWD 167 

but rarer than these was her high spirit. 
"She was the stuff of which great men's 
mothers are made. She was indispensable to 
high generation, hated at tea parties, feared 
in shops, and loved at crises/' This spirit, 
however, was to flame more brightly later, 
after her impetuosity had plimged her into 
the crises that were to prove her worth. 

In all Weatherbury, one man alone was 
heedless to her charm. This was William 
Boldwood, 'Hhe nearest approach to aris- 
tocracy that this remoter quarter of the 
I)arish could boast of." She resented being 
ignored and, in a moment of thoughtlessness, 
sent him a valentine that fanned into flame 
passions that Boldwood had hidden from the 
world. 

At the shearing supper held in the great 
bam Gabriel could see that Boldwood's suit 
was prospering. He was madly in love, she 
no longer discouraged him. Neither Bath- 
sheba nor Boldwood was thinking then of a 
song she had sung earlier that evening, 
when "the shearers reclined against one an- 
other as at suppers in the early ages of the 
world." Yet afterward how often were they 
to recall with a shudder the words that 
Bathsheba had so Ughtly sung : 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



168 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

For his bride a soldier sought her. 
And a winning tongue had he: 

On the banks of Allan Water 
None was gay as she. 

That very night the soldier came into her 
life, came as she walked about the farm to see 
that all was secure. Her skirt was caught as 
she trod fearfully through a growth of high 
firs; she heard the mutter of a man's voice. 
A dark-lantern revealed a spur entangled in 
her skirt; a young and slender man clad in 
brilliant brass and scarlet. It flashed like a 
gleam of romance in gray days, that scarlet 
coat that was afterward to be remembered 
as so sinister a portent. 

The man was Sergeant Troy, a light- 
hearted scoundrel whose ready flattery 
sounded sweeter in Bathsheba's ears than the 
stammering longing of Gabriel or Boldwood. 
He courted her romantically, wooing her 
with his sword. She stood, a few days 
later, in a hollow of ferns and about her 
flashed his whirling, edged weapon, slashing 
so close to her that she could hear its sharp 
hiss as it carved out in the air her lissome 
figure. And when he turned to leave her 
he stooped swiftly and kissed her on the lips. 

Gabriel tried to warn Bathsheba, but she 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



FAR FROM THE MADDING CROWD 159 

scorned his reproaches. So he bore silently 
with his grief and he did not tell her that 
Troy had beguiled little Fanny Robin away 
from Weatherbury. Boldwood, whose heart 
had never before beat faster at a woman's 
approach, could not so control his anger. 
He shouted maledictions upon the man who 
had robbed him of all that had made life 
joyous. His madness precipitated that which 
he most dreaded, Bathsheba's marriage to 
Troy. 

TTie hasty marriage led swiftly to sorrow, 
inevitably to tragedy. Troy celebrated the 
wedding by a revel in the bam where he and 
all the jovial rustics were soon hopelessly 
befuddle^ (sf^riel dared not drink with 
them. The creeping things of the night and 
the huddled sheep had warned him of a 
nearing storm, and in the fields the high ricks 
of wheat and barley lay uncovered. 

The moon vanished and the wind sub- 
sided; on far horizons baleful fires fluttered. 
The mutter of distant thunder rolled into a 
sharp rattle. The flashes grew bright as he 
worked to protect the grain. Then Bath- 
sheba was with him, and their laboring forms 
were outlined in black by the green snakes of 
fire that darted venomously earthward. As 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



160 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

she trembled with fright, Gabriel felt her 
warm arm tremble in his great, sheltering 
hand. She was another man's wife; she did 
not love him; but there was solace in the 
strange ways of fate that had brought her 
nearer to him than when her heart was free. 

Tragedy came when Fanny Robin crept 
home to die. Her body, with that of her 
child, was brought back to the house where 
she had worked. Standing by the coflSn, 
Bathsheba learned that Troy had never 
loved her as he had this girl who had borne 
death and shame for him. He fled from 
Weatherbury and word was brought to 
Bathsheba that he had been swept out to sea 
and drowned. 

The seasons rolled on and sorrow gave to 
Bathsheba's face a seriousness that added to 
her charm. Boldwood dreamed again and 
he was made happy by a pronuse, although 
six years must pass before its fulfilment. 

To celebrate his joy, he planned a Christ- 
mas Eve party, more than a year after Troy 
had disappeared. And it was on this night 
that Troy chose to reappear, striding like a 
specter among the merrymakers. As he ad- 
vanced upon her, Bathsheba stood like a 
stricken thing, half convinced that delusion 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



FAR FROM THE MADDING CROWD 161 

had enthralled her. But there was nothing 
ghostly in the rough command that he 
shouted at her nor in the brutal grip that he 
took upon her arm. Then only did she stir, 
but she could not speak. A strangled scream 
was heard, then a deafening roar. Some 
eyes were upon Troy, pitching forward and 
never to rise again; others upon Boldwood, 
standing with a smoking gun in his hands. 

Not until the next August, long after it 
was known that Boldwood was to be im- 
prisoned for life, was Bathsheba able to walk 
as far as the village street. Fate had been 
hard to her. Of three men who had loved 
her, one had been killed by another who 
would never stride in the daylight again. 
And now word had come to her that Gabriel 
— ^honest, sturdy Gabriel — ^whom she had 
found the one man in the world who did not 
fail her in her need, was leaving her. She 
sought him in his humble cottage and he 
confessed that he was going because people 
were coupling his name with hers. "Such a 
thing as that is too absurd — ^too soon — ^to 
think of, by far!'' she cried. When he 
agreed with her that it was "too absurd,'' she 
insisted that she had not said that, but "too 
soon." Even then minutes clicked away 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



162 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

before Gabriel could realize that what he had 
so long sought was to be his. 

Their lives, in calm and storm, had been 
so close that, after the wedding, the rustics 
marveled at his easy way of speaking of 
''my wife." They agreed that he did not 
say the words as chillingly as might a man 
who had been married twenty years, but 
that that improvement would come later. 
Gabriel laughed aloud at that and Bath- 
sheba smiled, for Bathsheba did not now 
laugh so readily as had been her wont when 
first she came among the simple folk of 
changeless Weatherbury. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 




WILKIE COLLINS 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



COLLINS 

rjnriLLIAM WILKIE COLLINS, the son of a 
^^ landscape and portrait painter, was ham in 
London, January 8, 1824. 

He died September 2S, 1889. After some private 
education at home he spent three years in Italy with 
his father. On his return he became a clerk with a 
firm of tea merchants in London, but tea was not to 
his taste; he studied law at the farrums Lincoln^ s 
Inn and was called to the bar in 1851. But he was 
still drifting; he was not attracted to the law, though 
he found his studies of great use to him in later 
days. 

The death of the elder Collins in 1847 put the son 
partly in the way of finding himself, for he pub- 
lished his father's life in two volumes the next year. 
He had been turning over his experiences of three 
years* life in Italy, and in 1850 appeared his first 
novel, ^^Antonia, or the FaU of Rome.** ^^BasiV* 
was published in 1852, and ^'Hide and Seek** in 
1854. He had not attracted the attention of the 
public as yet. The great event of his life, however, 
came in 1851, when he made the acquaintance of 
Charles Dickens. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



THE WOMAN IN WHITE 

By WILKIE COLLINS 

Condensation by 
ALICE FOX PITTS 

TT was a close and sultry night early in 
^ August, and I, Walter Hartright; master 
of drawing, aged twenty-eight, was walkmg 
from Hampstead to London. In one mo- 
ment every drop of blood in my body was 
brought to a stop by the touch of a hand laid 
gently on my shoulder. There, in the middle 
of the highroad, stood a woman dressed from 
head to foot in white garments. She asked 
me the way to London. I told her, and we 
parted. 

Ten minutes later a carriage passed me and 
a few yards beyond stopped near a policeman. 
A man put his head from the window and 
asked: ''Have you seen a woman pass this 
way — a woman in white? She has escaped 
from my asylum." At a shake of the police- 
man's head the carriage drove rapidly on. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



THE WOMAN IN WHITE 165 

The next day I was at Limmeridge House, 
Cumberland, in the service of Frederick 
Fairlie, Esquire. I was there to instruct his 
two young nieces in the art of painting. I 
found Marian Halcombe to be dark and ugly, 
but intelligent. Laura Fairlie, her half- 
sister, was light, pretty, and dependent. 
They were devoted to each other, and before 
my engagement was up I admired the one 
and loved the other. 

My feelings were the cause of my leav- 
ing Limmeridge House. Marian Halcombe 
brought to me a realization of my own heart. 
"You must leave," she said, "not because 
you are only a teacher of drawing, but 
because Laura Fairlie is engaged to be 
married." 

A few days before I left Cumberland, while 
walking alone in the evening, I was con- 
fronted by the same face which had first 
looked into mine on the London highroad by 
night. But I was startled less by its sudden 
reappearance than by my immediate recog- 
nition of an ominous likeness between this 
fugitive from the asylum and my fair pupil 
at Limmeridge House. Still greater was my 
consternation when the woman admitted 
having come to the neighborhood for the sole 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



166 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

purpose of thwarting the proposed marriage 
of Laura Fairlie. 

I left limmeridge House, and soon after 
embarked on an expedition to Central Amer- 
ica. The same year Laura Fairlie became 
the bride of Sir Percival Glyde, Bart., and 
with her sister went to live at Blackwater 
Park, her husband's country estate. Count 
Fosco, an audacious and domineering Italian, 
and his wife were guests of the household. 
But all was not as harmonious as an English 
country party should be. Lady Glyde and 
her sister, as inseparable and confiding as 
ever, felt a perceptible coolness rising be- 
tween them and the two gentlemen. Cool- 
ness turned to suspicion and soon to fear. 

Then it was that Lady Glyde met the 
Woman in White. The mysterious person 
stole noiselessly up to her in the twilight one 
evening and whispered: "If you knew your 
husband's secret, he would be afraid of you. 
He would not dare use you as he has used me. 
I ought to have saved you before it was too 
late." But before the secret was told there 
were footsteps in the distance and the 
woman moved stealthily away. 

Sir Percival learned of that brief interview, 
and was afraid of his wife. He demanded. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



THE WOMAN IN WHITE 167 

begged; threatened her to tell him all she 
knew. What had been a battle of wits be- 
tween the two sisters and the two men be- 
came a struggle of strategy, and the women 
lost the fight. Lady Glyde was decoyed into 
leaving Blackwater Park for Comit Fosco's 
London home. Less than two weeks later 
a tombstone in Cumberland bore this in- 
scription, "Sacred to the memory of Laura, 
Lady Glyde." 

On my return from Central America the 
same year I heard of the death, and im- 
mediately visited the grave. As I ap- 
proached it, two women came toward me. 
One was Marian Halcombe; the other was 
veiled, but when she raised this covering 
from her face, there, looking at me, was 
Laura, Lady Glyde. She was pale, ner- 
vous, and depressed — ^more perfect than 
ever in her resemblance to the Woman in 
White. 

Marian Halcombe told me what she knew. 
She had found her sister in an asylum, and in 
the grave at our feet was her mysterious 
double. Sir Percival's boldness and Count 
Fosco's cleverness had succeeded in exchang- 
ing the destinies of the two women. The 
circumstance had netted these two gentlemen 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



168 ONE HUNDRED BEST N0VEI5 CONDENSED 

some thirty thousand pounds, derived from 
the estate of Lady Glyde. 

The fortune was gone beyond recall^ but 
Lady Glyde's true identity might yet be 
established in the face of such evidence as her 
death certificate and tombstone, and the in- 
credulity of her friends and relatives. This 
I determined to do. Cast upon the world 
alone, the sisters readily agreed to allow me 
to take up their fight, and I determined that 
Laura should one day re-enter her father's 
estate recognized by all. 

It soon was apparent that Sir Percival and 
Count Fosco were the persons I must fight. 
I worked secretly but directly, for I had no 
funds with which to carry on a fight through 
the courts. The secret with which the 
Woman in White had threatened Sir Per- 
cival seemed to me to be the key to the whole 
situation. Through a series of inquiries, 
working always under the watch of spies, I 
found it opportune to look up the marriage 
registration of Sir Percival's parents. I 
foimd it in a little country church — ^and it 
was forged. I was no sooner in possession 
of the knowledge of his illegitimate birth 
than Sir Percival, in furious desperation to 
destroy the evidence, entered the little church 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



THE WOMAN IN WHITE 169 

by night; set fire to the structure, and through 
the agency of his own stupidity and an old- 
fashioned wooden lock, trapped himself into 
an awful death. 

Laura was free of her husband, but she 
remained an outcast — a woman dead to her 
friends and relatives. I was still deter- 
mined this should not be. My only hope of 
success lay in Count Fosco, who alone had 
the evidence which could establish her legal 
existence. But to acknowledge Lady Glyde's 
identity would be to admit his guilt of one of 
the greatest of crimes. My task looked 
difficult, but an unknown agency came to 
my aid. 

Coimt Fosco was a traitor to one of the 
world-wide Italian secret societies. The 
knowledge came to me by chance, but it 
served me in good stead. I went to his 
house one night and bartered my silence for 
the evidence of Laura's existence. Count 
Fosco, in a long exposition, gave the details 
of his own and Sir Percival's cunning. Then 
he left England forever. To clear up the 
last shred of mystery surrounding the 
Woman in White I sought out her childhood 
home. I pieced together her story from her 
old friends and relatives. Fate had made 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



170 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

her the illegitimate half-sister of her coun- 
terpart and the chance possessor of Sir 
Percival's secret. 

My labors ended, Marian Halcombe and 
her sister, who was now my wife, returned to 
the happy companionship of those days at 
linmieridge House before Sir Percival's cun- 
ning had usurped the consummation of our 
love. On the death of Laura's uncle some 
months later her son and mine became the 
heir of the estate and fortune of the house of 
limmeridge. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 




HALL CAINE 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



CAINE 

nPHOMAS HENRY HALL CAINE, since 1918 
^ Sir HaU, of Manx descent, toas bom at Run- 
corn, May 14, 186S. 

He was trained for an architect, hut was attracted 
to journalism and to the writing of novels, which 
have frequently been reproduced on the stage; during 
the war he has taken a hand in propaganda, largely 
intended for America, and was editor of ^'King 
Albert's Book'* and Queen Alexandra's ^^ Christmas 
Carol." His best-known stories have attained an 
enormous circulaMon in print, and reached great 
audiences on the stage. *^The Deemster," ^^The 
Bondman," ''The Manxman," ''The Christian," 
"The Eternal City," "The Woman Thou Gavest 
Me," are among the best knovm in a long list, which 
have passed from the printed page to the stage, and 
finally, in some cases, to the films. 

It will be interesting to see how his books last. A 
certain force he undoubtedly has, and he knows ex- 
tremely well how to choose a svbject with an appeal 
to a large audience; he has, however, a considerable 
crudity in thought and expression, and his enuh 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



172 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

tianal paamgea sometimea have the air of being 
created to order. 

No English-speaking author tias ever been so ex- 
tensively advertised as HaU Caine. He must wait 
a generation or so to see whether in the end it pays to 
advertise. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



THE DEEMSTER 

By HALL CAINE 

Condensation by 
CAROLINE TICKNOR 

T^HE scene of this story is laid in the Isle 
^ of Man, two centuries ago, and it is 
filled with the weird superstitions of the 
Manx people. 

Thorkell Mylrea, the Deemster, was a vio- 
lent, cruel, and crafty Judge, who dwelt 
among the sturdy fisherf oik dispensing what- 
ever justice suited his purpose. Being ac- 
customed to bending all others to his will he 
was bitterly disappointed when his scholarly 
son, Ewan, refused to fulfil his worldly am- 
bitions and retired into the ministry. In 
anger, he cast him off and took into his house- 
hold his iUegitimate son, Jarvis Kerruish, a 
worthless fop. 

Those qualities of strength and leadership 
which he longed to see in his son, Ewan, the 
Deemster found in his daredevil nephew. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



174 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

Dan Mylrea, son of his gentle and God-fear- 
ing brother, Gilcrist, Bishop of Man. Dan 
was a handsome, fiery young giant, who ex- 
celled in every manly sport, and Ewan and 
his lovely sister, Mona, adored their stalwart 
cousin, whose wild exploits among the fisher- 
men gave the Bishop much anxiety. From 
time to time Dan's impulsive nature ran 
away with him and he conmiitted some reck* 
less act that he sorely repented later. 

In a moment of thoughtlessness, when 
hounded for a debt, which he feared would 
worry the Bishop, Dan forged his cousin's 
name, feeling sure that Ewan would willingly 
have advanced the money, and Ewan, being 
confronted with the signature, declared it to 
be his own, telling a lie to save his cousin 
from prosecution. 

Dan's prompt expressions of sorrow and 
gratitude were checked by Ewan's an- 
nouncement that Dan should be from this 
time a stranger to himself and sister. 
Crushed and humiliated, Dan rushed to 
Mona's home and sought his cousin in her 
room, where he acknowledged his fault and 
protested against being estranged from her. 

Mona assured him that nothing should 
ever estrange them, and Dan, deeply re- 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



THE DEEMSTER 175 

pentant, hurried away, encountering in the 
hall Jarvis Eemiish, who seeing him emerge 
from his cousin's room, promptly reported 
to the Deemster this evidence of Dan's 
improper conduct toward Mona. 

The Deemster, whose feeling for Dan had 
changed to jealous hatred, in turn conveyed 
this intelligence to Ewan, doing his best to 
convince him that Dan had treated Mona 
dishonorably. An excited interview between 
Ewan and his sister followed in which Ewan 
mistook her innocent protestations of love 
for Dan for a confirmation of her lover's 
guilt, and dashed away to avenge her sup- 
posed wrong. He found Dan ready to beg 
forgiveness for his past fault, but in blind 
passion EWan took no heed of his words; 
accused him of being the basest of scoundrels 
and bade him depart from the island. 

Dan protested his innocence, but when he 
found that Ewan believed him to be so base, 
his own wild passion flamed up and he, in 
turn, cried out that there was "room for but 
one of them in the world." 

A mortal combat followed, near the edge 
of a cliff, and Ewan, almost overcome, threw 
his dagger into the air and reeled backward, 
falling over the precipice to his death. Then 



VOL. III. — 14 



Digitized byCjOOQlC 



176 ONE HXJNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

Dan realized what he had done and was 
overwhehned with remorse. 

It was Christmas Eve, and Mona, waiting 
for Ewan's return, had a terrible presenti- 
ment of his fate. As she tried to banish her 
fears, Dan climbed in through her window, 
prostrated himself before her, and confessed 
his guilt. 

Filled with grief for her brother, horror at 
Dan's confession, and apprehension for her 
lover, Mona told Dan that he must give him- 
self up to justice and that by so doing he 
should atone for his sin. He pledged himself 
to do as she wished, and while she protested 
her undying love for him, he bade her a pas- 
sionate farewell and vanished into the night. 

Returning half dazed to where Ewan's 
body lay, Dan found that his fisher frienda 
had planned to take the body out to sea for 
biuial. They embarked upon Dan's boat 
and he reluctantly allowed them to carry out 
their plan; owing to their unskilled sewing 
of the canvas about Ewan's body, the cover- 
ing slipped apart and the corpse was washed 
back to land. 

Despite the fishermen's protest that all 
would be prosecuted if they returned, Dan 
insisted upon their doing so. Ewan's body 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



THE DEEMSTER 177 

having been washed ashore was brought to 
the church where the Bishop had just 
finished his Christmas service. He and 
the Deemster looked upon the face of 
Ewan and realized the tragedy; and the 
latter taunting his brother with the fact 
that if Dan were proved the culprit, the 
Bishop must pronounce judgment on his 
own son, 

Dan, who had crept back in the darkness, 
witnessed the midnight biuial of Ewan, and 
after slipping away, narrowly escaped death 
when he fell into an old mine-shaft where he 
remained for some time a prisoner. Mean- 
while his fisherman friends were arrested as 
implicated in the murder, but during their 
arraignment in court Dan appeared, pushed 
his way through the crowd and announced 
his guilt. 

He was placed in a dungeon under the 
Bishop's jiuisdiction, and his father, bowed 
with grief, visited him and offered him the 
means of escape, which he refused. 

At the close of his trial Dan was pro- 
nounced "guilty," and awaited the death- 
sentence which he felt sure must foUow. A 
more dreaded fate, however, awaited him. 
With a breaking heart his father pronounced 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



178 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

his sentence: '*This man shall be cut oflf 
from his people. • . . From now, forever, let 
no tongue speak to him. Alone let him Uve, 
alone die." 

As the people shrank away from him Dan 
passed from among them to the south of the 
island, where a boat, containing supplies 
and provisions, was awaiting him. 

For a year Dan dwelt in this boat shunning 
his kind, but at last, unable to endure the 
loneliness of the sea, he erected a rude shelter 
on a rocky island not far from shore, where 
he could look upon the habitations of men. 
On the first night that he slept ashore a 
frightful storm swept away his boat, leaving 
him a prisoner on the island. 

Here, for seven years, he spent a solitary 
life, striving to make his peace with God, 
until at last it seemed to him the curse was 
Ufted. 

Then at his cabin door appeared a dying 
priest, who had landed half fainting from a 
blow received from the boom of his boat. 
The priest had come from Ireland, at the 
Bishop of Man's request, to succor the people 
from a dreadful scourge called the "sweating 
sickness.'^ 

The priest told Dan that he should carry 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



THE DEEMSTER 179 

on his own unfinished work, convey his mes- 
sage to the Bishop, and help to stay the 
plague. Before he died the saintly man 
outlined the methods to be followed in order 
to check the epidemic. 

And then at last Dan knew the oppor- 
tunity had come to make complete atone- 
ment. Able once more to reach the shore, 
he went among the sufferers, ministered to 
their needs and taught them how to cope 
with the disease. Soon the epidemic was 
stayed, while all the people were loud in 
praise of the strange priest whose face seemed 
to many a familiar one. 

The Deemster was among the last stricken, 
aad Dan, summoned to his bedside, arrived 
in time to ease his final sufferings and to be 
recognized with superstitious horror before 
his uncle died. Even as Mona entered the 
house to reach her father's bedside, Dan 
slipped away, and hastening to the Bishop 
gave him the dead priest's message, and also 
the assurance that his son lived and had made 
atonement for his sin. 

And now, word went abroad that the 
strange priest, proven to be Daniel Mylrea, 
had been appointed to succeed his late uncle 
as Deemster, or Judge of the island. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



180 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

This message read by Mona filled her with 
hope and a belief that Dan should at last 
come to his own. Accompanied by one 
faithful fisherboy, she journeyed to seek him 
out, only to find him imconscious and ill unto 
death in a bare cabin, where he had fallen 
a victim to the disease he had so bravely 
combated. 

Mona watched beside him until in his last 
moments he looked upon her with joyful rec- 
ognition. She murmured the Lord's Prayer, 
and as he echoed the words, '^ Deliver us from 
evil,** his spirit passed. 

D. Appleton & Co., authorized publishers. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 




ERCKMANN-CHATRIAN 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



ERCKMANN'CHATRIAN 

PRCKMANN'CHATRIAN is the joint name 
-'-^ of two French writers whose collaboration 
made their work that of, so to speak, one personality; 
the former writing chiefly and the latter editing and 
adapting for the stage. Emile Erckmann was horn 
en the 20th of May, 1822, at Phalshourg, and Louis 
Oratian Alexandre Chatrian on the 18th of De- 
cernber, 1826, at Soldatenthal, Lorraine. They 
began their work together in 1847 and continued 
doing so untU 1889. 

Among their first publications are ^^ Science et 
Oinie,^^ *^ Schinderhannes, *' and many short stories. 
The series of novels to which Erckmann-Chatrian 
€we in great part their reputation includes "Le Fou 
Yigof,'' ''Madame TMrhe,'' ''Histoire d'un Cortr 
4icnt de 181S,'' ''VAmi Fritz,'' ''Histoire d'un 
Homme du Peuple,'' and many others. 

Their dramatic compositions and adaptations are 
^'Georges, ou le Chasseur des Ruines,'' ^'U Alsace 
en 18W 

Their stories, dealing with the realities of the 
times, are distinguished by simplicity and a genuine 
descriptive power, particularly in battle scenes and 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



182 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

those of Alaaiian peasant life. They are fvU of a 
moat democraiic spirit and patriotismy which de- 
veloped, after 1870, into a haired of Germany and 
the Prussians. The authors attacked militarism 
by depicting all the horrors of war in the plainest 
terms. 

After Chairian^s death Erckmann contributed to 
'^Le Temps" two publications^ ^^Kaleb et Khora^' 
and "La Premiere Campagne du GrandrPh-e 
Jacques," the latter being the first of a series of 
stories dealing with the wars of the Empire. 
^^ Waterloo," one of the best liked and most read 
of the works of the joint authors, was voritten in 
1865. 

Chatrian died at ViUemomble, near Paris, in 
1890; Erckmann died at Lun&nUe in 1899. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



WATERLOO 

By MM. ERCKMANN-CHATRIAN 

Condensation by 
C3HARLES E. L. WINGATE 

T^HERE was joy unbounded when Louis 
-*• the Eighteenth returned in 1814. 

Yes, everybody was delighted, except the 
old soldiers and the fencing-masters. 

Living with Father Goulden in Phals- 
bourg, of old Lorraine, I was happy in the 
belief that conscription was now over, and 
that, at last, I should be able to marry 
Catherine and live in peace. 

So, when the marriage permit came, I 
rushed at once to her with the news. I 
kissed her again and again and we both 
wept for joy. 

And then, after the happiness of marrying 
Catherine, my greatest delight lay in thinking 
that I should be a tradesman for the rest of 
my life. 

Ah, what a happy life! what satisfaction 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



184 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

to be young and to have a simple, good, 
industrious wife! We shall never be old! 
We shall always love each other and always 
retain about us those whom we love. 

Thus days and weeks went by. But, later 
on, we found that the returning royalists, 
the ministers and the princes, who had rushed 
back to France after Napoleon's banishment, 
adopted the most insolent manner toward 
us, the people. And as to their treatment of 
Napoleon's former soldiers I can still hear 
the commandant expostulating, *'They are 
starving us; they are treating us like Cos- 
sacks; only they are too cowardly to shoot 
us!'' 

But, about the beginning of March, a 
rumor began to circulate that the Emperor 
had escaped from Elba and had landed in 
France. Quickly his advance toward Paris 
followed; and the old soldiers, sent out to 
restrain him, rushed forward to kneel at his 
feet. Thus it was that Napoleon again 
came to the throne. 

What happened afterward, however, was 
not so agreeable to me, now a married man, 
settled as I had hoped for a life of peace. For 
I was called to the colors. Aunt Grethel, 
who had always been like a mother to 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



WATERLOO 185 

me, sobbed aloud. Catherine passed into a 
deathly swoon. 

Yet, m spite of all, I needs must leave for 
the army with my old veteran soldier friend, 
Zebede, and at once we were rushed to the 
front. 

One day, as we halted, the Emperor came 
to our lines and the whole division shouted, 
"Vive TEmpereur!" 

I had a good view of him as he advanced 
with his arms crossed behind his back and his 
head bent. He had grown stouter and more 
saUow since the days of Leipsic. He looked 
much older and his cheeks were flabby. 
Little wonder, also, that he appeared worried 
— ^for had he not lost everybody's confidence? 
The old soldiers alone retained their love for 
him; they were ready to conquer or to die 
in his behalf. But for my part I cared 
much more for Catherine than for the 
Emperor. Of her I thought with greatest 
tenderness, the more so knowing that she 
would soon become a mother. And I prayed 
to God to preserve my life. 

At last we came upon the Prussians and, 
driving them back at Ligny, marched on 
against the British. 

I thought I should drop every moment 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



186 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

from weakness, but finally near Waterloo, 
on mounting a little ridge, we saw the 
English pickets through the rain. 

In a cornfield, under a beating storm, we 
lay like gypsies, our teeth chattering with 
the cold— and yet thinking of massacring 
our fellow -men, and esteeming om-selves 
lucky if we had a turnip, a carrot or anything 
else to keep up our strength. Is that a life 
for honest men? Is it for this that God 
created us? Is it not an abomination to 
think that a king or an emperor, instead of 
encouraging comimerce and diffusing liberty, 
should reduce us to this state by hundreds of 
thousands? I know that this is called glory, 
but people are foolish to glorify such men 
who have lost all sense of right and heart 
and religion. 

When I awoke in the morning the church- 
bells were ringing and I thought: 

"To-day is Sunday, a day of peace and 
rest. Father Goulden, dressed in his best 
coat and a clean shirt, is thinking of me. 
Catherine is sitting on the bed and weeping. 
Aunt Grethel has taken her prayer-book and 
is going to Mass." As I pictured to myself 
that quiet, happy life, I could have burst 
into tears. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



WATERLOO 187 

But the drums began to beat and the 
trumpets sounded. 

The first movement was when our four 
divisions were ordered to advance. We 
were about twenty thousand men, marching 
in two lines and sinking up to our knees with 
every step in the soft mud. Nobody spoke 
a word. 

Face to face with us were the English, in 
perfect order, their cannoneers with lighted 
matches in their hands. 

On all sides, as far as the eye could reach, 
nothing was to be seen but cuirasses, helmets, 
swords, lances, and rows of bayonets. 

"What a battle!" cried Buche, my com- 
rade-at-arms. ' ' Woe to the English ! " 

And I thought as he did. I believed that 
not a single Englishman would escape. But 
bad luck pursued us that day; though, had 
it not been for the Prussians, I think we 
should have exterminated them all. 

Down into the little valley we poured, 
right into the face of the English fire, and 
shouting all the time, "Give them the 
bayonet!" 

The batteries hurled their grape-shot point- 
blank upon us. It was then, for the first 
time, I saw the English close at hand. They 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



188 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

had fair skins and were clean shaven like 
respectable citizens. They can fight well, 
too — ^but we are as good as they. Every 
shot of the English told; and this forced us 
to break our ranks, for men are not mere 
palisades. 

And almost at the same moment we saw 
a mass of red dragoons, on gray horses, 
sweeping along like the wind and sabering 
our stragglers without mercy. It was one of 
the most terrible moments of my life as we 
were driven back. 

What a fearful thing is a battle! 

Then out came Marshal Ney waving his 
sword in the air. Older, thinner, and more 
bony than when I saw him last, but still the 
same brave soldier with the clear eyes that 
seemed to take us all in. 

"Forward," he cried; "I shall lead you 
myself!" And we rushed ahead, one after 
the other like a pack of wolves, until we 
gained the principal outpost of the British. 

But suddenly the rumor spread that the 
Prussians were coming. I felt myself grow 
pale. 

At that moment cries of "Vive FEm- 
pereur!" rose from thousands of throats 
behind us, and looking back I saw all our 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



WATERLOO 189 

cavalry of the right wmg advancmg to attack 
the solid squares of the English. It was an 
awesome sight. With waving sabers they 
rushed pell-mell again and again upon the 
redcoats. Twenty such charges they made^ 
until the horses of our cuirassiers, exhausted, 
could no longer even walk — ^and there still 
firmly stood the great red lines, steadfast 
as walls. 

Now all that remained for attack was the 
Old Guard — ^those wonderful veterans who 
had fought in Germany, in Egypt, in Spain, 
and in Russia, of whom the Emperor took 
special care and who no longer knew parents 
or relations. They only knew the Emperor 
who was their god. When it was said in the 
ranks, "The Guard is going to charge," it 
was the same as saying, "The battle is 
won!" 

And Ney commanded them! 

Upon the Guard fell the concentrated hail 
of bullets. In twenty minutes every officer 
had been dismounted and the Guard, reduced 
from three thousand men to twelve hundred, 
slowly gave way. 

Now the entire English army fell upon us. 
And, as the remnant of the Old Guard fell 
backward, across the field fled hussars, cui- 

VOL. m. — 15 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



190 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVEIfi CONDENSED 

xassiers, artillery, and infantry like an army 
of savages. 

What can I tell you more? It was utter 
rout. And in the valley old Bliicher, with 
forty thousand Prussians, was looming up. 

The end had come — and I wept like a 
child. 

Back we scurried, borne down with fatigue, 
hunger, and despair. 

"Keep on," cried Buche, "the Prussians 
take no prisoners. Look! they are cutting 
down every one." 

So back, back, even to Paris we fled, and 
there we learned that hostilities were to be 
suspended, that the Emperor had gone, 
and that the King was returning to the 
throne. Desertions began. Fifteen of us 
from Lorraine left together. 

I hurried on from village to village and 
at last reached Pfalzbourg — and my home. 

Up the stairs I sprang; Catherine was in 
my arms. I fell to sobbing so violently 
that one would have thought misfortune had 
come upon me. 

The first words of Catherine were: "Jo- 
seph, I knew that you would come back. I 
had put my trust in God." 

Thus happiness finally reached us. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



WATERLOO 191 

Now I have lived to see the return of the 
flag of liberty and to see the nation increase 
in wealth, in education, and in happiness. 
People begin to understand their rights. 
They know that war only brings increase of 
taxation and suffering; and when the people, 
as masters, shall say, "Instead of sending our 
sons to perish by thousands beneath the 
sword and the cannon, we will have them 
taught and made men!'' who will dare 
gainsay them? 

In this hope I bid you farewell, my friends, 
and I embrace you with all my heart. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



KINGSLEY 

nnHE Ume in which Charles Kingsley lived and 
J- wrote was aJcin to our own. The rising of the 
oppressed workers and the social fermerU in England 
following the revolution of 1848 in France were in a 
small way similar to the impetus toward freedom 
stirred hy the Russian revolution fhroughoui the 
world. 

Kingsley^s vigorous yet sympathetic personality , 
his flashing scorn for hypocrisy and his fearless love 
of justice, made him a natural champion of the op- 
pressed. ^^AUon Locke^' and ^^YeasV^ both ap- 
peared the year after the revolution. The first is an 
exposition of the sweating system in which London 
low life and working-class thought are pictured 
with extraxyrdinary vividness and understanding. 
'' Yeast/^ written in burning indignation at the conn 
dition of the agricultural laborer in England^ has a 
^^ depth and passion and power, a life, an intensity, 
the tenth part of which would make the fortune of a 
novel now.*' 

Kingsley was a tireless worker for practical re- 
form, but the great lesson he tried to convey was that 
^^the future welfare of society dem>ands a new oui- 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 




CHARLES KINGSLEY 



Digitized by LaOOQ IC 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



KINGSLEY 193: 

hurst of (he latent forces of Chrisfs religion. If 
was not amassing^ therefore, that he should have 
turned from English settings and subjects, in which 
he was so passionately interested, to a study of (he 
fifth century. The empire at that period was enn 
slaving the masses; a universal fermentation of hur 
man thought was in process. The Young Church 
and the Old World were at grips in a death-struggle. 
He wished to prove in a novel of that epoch that 
^^Christianity is (he only really democratic creed,^^ 
so he wrote (he briUiant and tragic ^^Hypatia.^^ 

The richness of Kingsley^s personality is realized 
as one turns from '*Hypatia^' to (he incomparable 
^^ Water Babies,*^ whimsical, charming, eternally 
delightful to big and litde children. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



HYPATIA 

By CHARLES KINGSLEY 

Condensation by 
PROF. WILLIAM FENWICK HARRIS 

DHILAMMON could bear no more. An- 
^ other moment and he had hurled down 
through the dense mass of spectators, clearing 
rank after rank of seats by the sheer strength 
of madnesS; leaped the balustrade into the 
orchestra below, and rushed across the space 
to the foot of the platform. 

"Pelagia ! Sister ! My sister I Have 
mercy on me! on yourself! I wiU hide you! 
save you ! and we will flee together out of this 
mfemal place! this world of devils! I am 
your brother ! Come ! " 

She looked at hun one moment with wide, 
wild eyes — ^the truth flashed on her — 

^^Brother!" 

And she sprang from the platform into his 
arms. 

A vision of a lofty window in Athens, 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



HYPATIA 196 

looking out over far olive yards and gardens, 
and the bright roofs and basins of the 
PirsBus, and the broad blue sea, with the 
purple peaks of ^gina beyond all — and a 
dark-eyed boy, with his arm around her 
neck, pointed laughing to the twinkling 
masts in the far harbor, and called her sister. 
The dead soul woke within her; and with 
a wild cry she recoiled from him in an agony 
of shame, and covering her face with both 
her hands, sank down among the blood- 
stained sands. 

A yell, as of all hell broke loose, rang along 
that vast circle. 

" Down with him I Away with him I Cru- 
cify the slave! Give the barbarian to the 
beasts! To the beasts with him, noble 
Prefect!" 

The pleasure-loving people of Alexandria 
did not take kindly to the youth who so 
rudely interrupted the delicious spectacle 
which their prefect had staged for them, 
"Aphrodite Rising from the Sea.'' 

It was Alexandria in the fifth century of 
our era. The city founded by a king who 
dreamed not in empires, but in continents, 
placed at the strategic point where it would 
command three of those great units, had 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



196 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

achieved a pre-eminence in beauty, in vice, 
in learning, in turbulence, in the cosmo- 
politan character of its people. The three 
continents which Alexander would unite into 
one had poured into his city their best and 
their worst, and each strove desperately for 
supremacy. Many a man in those days 
must have thought that 

East is East and West is West, 
And never the twain shall wed, 

though meet they did in ways as tem- 
pestuous as the most violent of matrimony. 
The empire, nominally Christian in the 
persons of the rulers since the unsuccessful 
attempt of Julian to turn back the hands 
of time to the faith of paganism, f oimd itself 
in constant clashes with the growing power of 
the church; Orestes, the imperial prefect, 
and Cyril, the militant bishop, vied with 
each other in despatches to Constantinople, 
each complaining at the other's usurpations; 
the army of legionaries and the vast throngs 
of monks each entertained a considerable 
respect for the fighting qualities of the 
other. 

The Jews were in great numbers and were 
not in the happiest position between church 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



HYPATIA 197 

and empire; while the descendants of Alex- 
ander's Macedonians, and Greeks from aU 
quarters of the eastern Mediterranean, could 
not forget that they had once been the mas- 
ters of Egypt. Constant conflict in the 
streets between the partizans of each side 
laid a fitting scene for Charles Kingsley's 
religious philosophic historical melodrama. 

Cyril, Bishop and later saint, is nominally 
the leader of the battling churchmen of the 
tale; the great Augustine and the philo- 
sophic Synesius, bishops both, are minor 
personages of the drama, with many other 
passing figures of the church, but the leading 
character from that side is the hmnble 
Philammon, the young boy of the monastery 
in the desert, who makes his way in the 
simplicity of his zeal to brave the world, the 
flesh, and the devil, where so many other 
monks of fiction have found that interesting 
triad, keeping headquarters at Alexandria. 
The city was ruled by Orestes, so far as any 
prefect could rule that imruly cosmopolis, a 
worldly and elusive person, who, not satis- 
fied with the troubles already at hand, would 
conspire to erect an empire of Africa out of 
the difficulties of Rome and Constantinople, 
and to crown as his empress Hypatia, ideal- 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



198 ONE HtJNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

ist; mathematician, neo-Platonist, leader and 
teacher of what remained of Greek phi- 
losophy as a living force. Under Hypatia's 
sway fell the yoimg Philammon by reason of 
her beauty, her power of speech, and the 
inherited appeal of philosophy to one whose 
ancestry was Athenian. An appeal of an- 
other sort came to him from Pelagia, dancer 
and beauty, darling of the city in general and 
of individuals in particular. To the charm 
of Hypatia yielded not only the worldly 
prefect and the simple monk, but the most 
interesting figure of the story, Raphael- 
Aben-Ezra, descended from the blood of 
Solomon, rich, lazy, and selfish to all ap- 
pearance, but the personage in whose soul 
and mind was surging most violently the 
struggle and conflict which is the keynote 
of the book. Should the traditions of Jewry, 
the lure of Greek philosophy, the charm of a 
pleasant if tumultuous world, or the power of 
Christianity conquer in him? In his ap- 
parently easy-going way through existence, 
he was measuring what every phase of that 
seething caldron had to offer as a solution 
for the problems which a human soul has to 
ponder for its own salvation. It took him 
long to decide, and it was only by the minis- 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



HYPATIA 199 

trations of Augustine and Synesius and the 
living example of Victoria that he finally 
found in Christianity the truly democratic 
creed by which the worid could best live. 

Struggle and strife of soul or body — 
Philammon's yearning to see more of the 
worid than the monastery in the desert; his 
enthralment by the charm of Hypatia's 
beauty and her learning; Cyril's struggles by 
militant means toward a spiritual end; 
Orestes's to win an empire; Pelagians to win 
love; Raphael to find the truth; the conflict 
between old thought and new; and as the cli- 
max, the conflict and the end in Hypatia's case : 

"Yes, on into the church itself! Into the 
cool, dim shadow, with its fretted pillars, and 
towering domes, and candles, and incense, 
and blazing altar, and great pictures, looking 
from the walls athwart the gorgeous gloom. 
And right in front, above the altar, the 
colossal Christ watching unmoved from off 
the wall, his right hand raised to give a 
blessing — or a curse? 

"On, up the nave, fresh shreds of her dress 
strewing the holy pavement, up the chancel 
steps themselves — ^up to the altar — bright 
underneath the great, still Christ; and there 
even those hell-hounds paused. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



200 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

"She shook herself free from her tor- 
mentors, and springing back, rose for one 
moment to her full height, naked, snow- 
white against the dusky mass around, shame 
and indignation in those wide, clear eyes, but 
not a stain of fear. With one hand she 
clasped her golden locks around her; the 
other long, white arm was stretched upward 
toward the great, still Christ, appealing — ^and 
who dare say in vain? — ^from man to Gk)d. 
Her lips were opened to speak; but the words 
that should have come from them reached 
God's ears alone; for in an instant they 
struck her down, the dark mass closed over 
her again — ^and then wail on wail, ear- 
piercing, rang along the vaulted roofs, and 
thrilled like the trumpet of avenging angels 
through Philammon's ears/' 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 




ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON 



Digitized by LaOOQ IC 



STEVENSON 

nOBERT LOUIS STEVENSON writes in 
-'^ 1883: "/ am now a person with an established 
HJrfiedUh — a wife — a dog possessed with an evil 
spirit — a certain reputation — and very obscure 
finances. I now draw near to the Middle Ages; 
nearly three years ago that fatal thirty struck; and 
yet the great work is not yet even conceived. Eight 
years ago, if I covld have slung ink a^ I can now, I 
should have thought myself weU on the road after 
Shakespeare — and now — I find I have only got a 
pair of walking^shoes and not yet begun to 
traveV^ 

At this time he and his wife spent one of their 
happiest periods in their first real home, ^^La Soli- 
tude,^^ in Hykres. At the end of sixteen months 
he was again flung back into acute suffering. They 
went to Bournemouth, where they lived in ^^Skerry- 
vore^^ until after his father's death. Confined to 
the hou^e — a condition most irksome to his active 
temperament — his gallant and buoyant spirit never- 
theless flamed into expression at the slightest respite 
from pain and weakness. He wrote ^^ Kidnapped,^' 

one of his most brilliant successes, and the *^vnld, 
VOL. m. — 16 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



202 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

symbolic*^ tale of ^^Dr. JekyU and Mr. Hyde,^^ the 
moat popular of aJl his loritings. 

In 1887 he left (he trying climate of the British 
Isles J never to return. Wiih his family he went to 
(he United States, where he was acclaimed, hut his 
weak condition neceasitaied an immediate rest at 
Saranac, New York. Here he wrote for ' ' Scribner's 
Magazine'^ the essays including '^The Lantern 
Bearers,'^ ^^Dreaws/' and ^'Pulvis et Urribra,^^ 
the charm of which is ageless. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



KIDNAPPED 

By ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON 

Condensation by 
JAMES B. CONNOLLY 

TT was dawn; the blackbirds were whistling 
^ in the lilacs, the mists of the valley arising 
and melting, when I set out for the house of 
Shaw. On the forenoon of the second day, 
coming to the top of a hill, I saw the city of 
Edinburgh smoking like a kiln below me. 
There was a flag upon the castle and ships 
anchored to the blue floor of the Firth, a 
sight which thrilled me. 

I walked on toward Cramond, making 
inquiries as I went of my imcle, who seemed 
to be in no favor thereabout, some giving me 
a half-civil word, some a scowl or a curse for 
an answer. It was night, and his house 
barred and dark when I came to it; and it 
was a long while before my shouts and knocks 
brought him to the window from where, with 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



204 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

a blunderbuss by way of welcome, he 
screamed to inquire my business- 
It was a mean, stooping, clay-faced creat- 
ure; and a big muckle house and an ill-kept 
one I saw when at last he let me in, with 
dirt, mice, and spiders having their play of it. 
Here I stayed some days, the while he 
sparingly fed me with porridge and a rare 
half-cup of ale. 

One night he gave me forty pounds, saying 
it was a debt he owed my father, and with it 
gave me also a rusty key to the high stair 
tower, telling me to bring him down the chest 
at the top of it. I went, poor fool, into the 
dark to bring it; and only a bhnk of summer 
lightning saved me from stepping into space 
and being dashed sheer down from the top 
of the tower. 

Of the estate that he had defrauded my 
father in life I had then no suspicion; but 
that happening of the tower gave me a 
glimpse of his villainy. In the morning my . 
body would be discovered at the foot of the 
tower, his forty pounds in my pockets, as one 
trying to escape after robbing his host. 
What a tale he would make of it ! 

Next day my imcle spoke of a friend, 
Captain Elias Hoseason, of the brig Covenant, 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



KIDNAPPED 205 

then lying oflf Queensferry on the Firth, pro- 
posing that I go to call there with him. I 
agreed, being eager to get away from that 
evil house; also I had knowledge that re- 
siding in Queensferry was Mr. Rankiellor, 
the counselor and agent, a friendly person 
and one who knew more than any other of 
my father's business in life. 

We arrived at Queensferry, but I did not 
see Mr. Rankiellor, f oreby I first allowed my- 
self to be led into looking over the brig with 
Captain Hoseason and my uncle. It was so 
that I came to be knocked on the head and 
kidnapped to sea on the agreement between 
my uncle and Captain Hoseason that I was 
to be sold into slavery in the Carolines. 

It was a fair wind the first day to sea, but 
following days were all head winds, the ship 
making so little way on her course to the 
north that Captain Hoseason made a fair 
wind of a foul one by heading her south back 
the way we had come. During this time of 
bad weather the cabin-boy was killed by the 
first officer in a dnmken passion, his body cast 
overboard, and I pressed into his berth. 

It was night, with a swell and a thick 
white fog, the men listening for breakers, 
when the brig ran over a boat; and sent all 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



206 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

but one man to the bottom. That one, with 
a leap and a clutch which showed his rare 
agility and strength, boarded us by way of the 
brig's bowsprit. 

He entered the cabin, or roundhouse, 
looking cool as you please, and called for 
something to eat and the drink to wash it 
down. He was a well-set, rather small man 
with a dark face and dancing bright eyes. 
Under his greatcoat were two silver-mounted 
pistols, a dirk, and a great-sword. He made 
his name known, Alan Stewart Breck, and 
without fear announced himself as on a mis- 
sion for Prince Charlie. From a money-belt 
about him he offered the captain sixty 
guineas to be set ashore on Linnhe Loch. 

The captain shook hands on the bargain, 
but at once went on deck to plot with his 
first officer as how best to come at the 
money-belt. I had no love for the captain, 
and also it was scurvy hospitality to a man 
we had all but drowned; so I warned the 
stranger of the plot. Surprised he was, but 
not put out, asking me would I stand with 
him. Jacobite though he was, I said I would. 

Two doors and a skylight furnished en- 
trance to the roundhouse. Alan placed me 
with loaded pistols where I could see to 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



KIDNAPPED 207 

shoot through at whoever might come at one 
closed door or through the glass skylight. 
The other door he left open, standing before 
it with dirk and sword. They came with a 
rush of feet and many loud cries toward 
Alan. I heard a shout from him and a cry- 
as of some one hurt. Then came five men 
with a spare yard for a battering-ram to drive 
my door in. For the first time in my life I 
fired a pistol; and hit one of them, which 
drove them back. By then Alan's sword was 
running blood; and the first mate, he who 
had murdered the cabin-boy, lay dying on the 
floor. Another lay beside him. 

They came next to my side, some to the 
barred door and one dropping through the 
skylight to the floor, where, after first closing 
my eyes, I shot him. He dropped with a 
horrible groan. Another one's legs dangled 
through the skylight, and him I shot, too, 
he dropping dead atop of his companion. 
Alan was then dirking one who clung to his 
legs, and putting the cutlass to another who 
was coming head on at him. A third held a 
cutlass over him and yet more were crowding 
at him through the door. He seemed lost; 
but he broke clear and, taking his distance, 
clove one, clove another, and then, his 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



206 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

sword flashing like quicksilver, drove the 
others like sheep along the deck. 

We were masters of the brig. Alan em- 
braced and kissed me, saying : '^ David, I love 
you like a brother. But oh, man, am I no 
the bonny fighter!" and sitting down by the 
table, sword in hand, he burst into a Gaelic 
song. 

The very next night we struck on a reef. 
I was thrown into the sea, thinking I would 
drown, but found a spar and with it kicked 
myself along till my feet found quiet water 
and dry land. Of the ship or her company I 
could see nothing. Later I learned that all 
but the wounded were safe. The ship her- 
self was a total loss to Captain Hoseason, 
which I did not grieve to hear. 

After days of wandering and secret inquiry, 
for he was one with a price on his head, I 
found Alan. It was in the same hour that I 
witnessed the killing of Campbell of Glenure, 
the man who had been doing the King's will 
against the Jacobites. The shot came in 
such fashion that I seemed to be an ac- 
complice. I had to flee or be hanged. 
It was Alan who secured my inmaediate es- 
cape. For two months thereafter, with red- 
coats guarding every road and glen, I fol- 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



KIDNAPPED 209 

lowed Alan through the country of the 
Campbells. 

It was wet and cold and slhn food for us 
both, with now and then a little something 
not much better in the hut of a Jacobite. 
Weary I grew and full of pain, crawling the 
wet heather and climbing the ra^ed crags 
and hills. Posted bills promised great re- 
wards for our capture — ^I saw them every- 
where — and many there were who knew us 
for what we were; but never one, poor and 
miserable though they might be, to speak 
the word of betrayal. "Such,'' cried Alan, 
proudly, "is the loyalty of the Hielander!" 

We came safe at last to Queensf erry and 
the home of Mr. Rankiellor, who proved a 
shrewd, kindly friend and who at once set 
about retrieving my rights in the Shaw 
estate. "Your father,'' he explained, "was 
a good man, but weak. He loved your 
mother. To win your mother he let your 
imcle steal the estates. But he will have 
them back soon." 

Alan aided us greatly in our plans. Half 
by quick wit and half by sheer boldness, he 
had my uncle admit his plan to have me kid- 
napped and sold into slavery in the Carolines, 
Mr. Rankiellor and his clerk all the while 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



210 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

listening in the shadows. And so I came into 
my own. 

And Alan, who made a man of me? All 
he asked was to be put on the road of his 
mission. As to that, let me say if I say no 
more, that he went safe on his way and all 
went well with him thereafter. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 




CHARLES DICKENS 



Digitized by VjjOOQIC 



DICKENS 

f^HABLES DICKENS did most of his writing 
^ in the morning. He iLsiuiUy was content with 
the hours between nine and one. He rarely wrote in 
the afternoon. In his youthful days he often corrir 
posed at nighty bvi this habit was abandoned later. 

He could turn off page after page at great speed 
and oftentimes the custom of printing his novels in 
parts made this necessary. He was seldom far 
ahead of the printer. But ordinarily he considered 
three pages a good day's work. If he did four and 
they satisfied him he thought it an unusuMly good 
day. 

He liked to write. He described himself as one 
*'who writes and grins, as if he thought he were very 
funny indeed.^' This was when he was well into 
his story. In starting a novel he was extremely 
slow. He could not hit upon namss that satisfied 
him. His most loved hero was Trotfield, Trotbury, 
Cojyperboy, and Copperstone before he finaUy be- 
came Copperfield. But once in his stride he seldom 
rewrote, and he plunged ahead joyously. 

For every hour given to writing he set aside arv- 
other for exercise. He describes how he ^^ walked 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



212 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

about the block streets of London, fifteen and twenty 
miles many a night when aU the sober folks had gone 
to bedJ^ As he walked, whether in London or Paris 
streets or along the Kentish cliffs, he was planning 
his story. But he was not so absorbed as to be 
oblivious to the people he passed. Quaint and 
commonplace m>en and women in city streets and 
country lanes flashed for a mxyment before his eyes 
and the next day were made immortal in his tales. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



OLIVER TWIST 

By CHARLES DICKENS 

Condensation by 
REV. HOWARD LaFIELD 

/^LIVER TWIST was bom about seventy- 
^-^ five miles from London, in the lying-in 
room of the almshouse. His mother, worn 
and exhausted from a long and painful jour- 
ney on foot, had been found unconscious in 
the road, and had been carried to the only 
place of refuge for such as she seemed to be. 
His name he owed to the inventive genius of 
the parish beadle, who remarked, ^'The last 
one was a ^s' — Swubble I named him, the 
next one as comes will be Unwin, and IVe 
got names ready made to the end of the 
alphabet, and all the way through it again, 
when we come to *z.''' 

The wronged and unhappy mother died 
without revealing her name, and the only 
proofs of the boy's identity, a locket and ring, 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



214 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

kept even at the price of starvation^ were 
stolen from the corpse before it was cold by 
the old crone who had been in attendance. 

The orphan's childhood, passed in cruel 
neglect and semi-starvation, was brought to 
an abrupt close by his own unparalleled act. 
Desperate through hunger, he and his com- 
panions determine that some one of them 
shall secure for all an extra helping of the 
thin and watery gruel which is their princi- 
pal diet. The lot falls upon Oliver. Nine- 
year-old child though he was, he was "reck- 
less with misery." He rose from the table, 
and, advancing to the workhouse-master, 
basin and spoon in hand, he said, "Please, 
sir, I want some more!" 

Such unheard-of daring receives speedy 
treatment. The next morning a bill, posted 
upon the gate, offers five pounds to any one 
who will take Oliver Twist off the hands of 
the parish. 

Then there follows a brief stay as the ap- 
prentice of a coflSnmaker and undertaker, 
who, with an eye to the effect, promptly 
makes of the sad-faced little waif a chief 
moiuner at the funerals of children, and 
"many were the processions which little 
Oliver headed, in a hatband reaching down 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



OLIVER TWIST 215 

to his knees/ to the admiration of all the 
mothers in the town." 

His master is, on the whole, well disposed 
toward him, but a fight with a bullying older 
apprentice brings him into unmerited dis- 
grace and punishment and he runs away. 

On the outskirts of London he chances 
upon the fascinatingly droll Artful Dodger, 
pickpocket and pupil of Fagin. The curious 
behavior of his new associates is only a game 
to the innocent boy, when Fagin places snuff- 
boxes, jewelry, watches, and handkerchiefs 
in his pockets, and then stands looking in 
imaginary store-windows while (in an un- 
believably short time) every one of the 
things is taken from him. The true meaning 
of it all bursts upon the horrified Oliver when 
he is taketi on an expedition and sees the 
"game" iii full operation. Dazed and con- 
fused, he is the only one captured and taken 
before a magistrate. His innocence is estab- 
lished, but he faints in the court-room, and 
is taken home by the remorseful Mr. Brown- 
low, the man whose pocket he was supposed 
to have picked. In his new friend's house 
Oliver is nursed through a serious illness, 
and better days seem to have dawned for him, 
when he again falls into the hands of Fagin. 

VOL. in. — 17 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



216 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

This is no chance happening^ for the old 
crook, dreading the information which the 
boy may give, has him kidnapped, while on 
an errand for Mr. Brownlow, by Nancy, a 
wretched girl of the streets, pupil of Fagin, 
and mistress of Bill Sikes, the greatest 
ruffian of the whole gang. 

In order to close Oliver's mouth, by mak- 
ing him also a criminal, he is taken along on 
a housebreaking attempt. Protesting, he is 
putjthrough a small window that he may open 
the door to his companions. He is firmly de- 
termined to warn the people of the house, 
but the burglary is a failure, and Oliver, 
wounded by a stray shot, is left in a ditch by 
the fleeing gangsters. The next morning he 
crawls, injured as he is, to the same house, 
where his story is believed and he finds new 
and lasting friends. 

Again the lad is sought out by Fagin, aided 
by a mysterious man who has shown great 
emotion at a chance sight of Oliver in the 
street, and who now plots with Fagin, not 
merely for the possession of the boy, but for 
his moral ruin, which seems to be desired 
especially by this so-called Monks. 

Their whispered plottings are overheard by 
Nancy, who atones f or^her former kidnapping 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



OLIVER TWIST 217 

of OUver by risking her life to mform his new 
friends of his true parentage. 

The interview between this scorned street- 
girl and the beautiful Rose Maylie, adopted 
niece of Oliver's protectress, gives Dickens a 
splendid opportunity to which he does not 
fail to do full justice. ^^ Coldly and harshly 
treated by Mrs. Maylie's self-righteous ser- 
vants, the girl is in a defiant mood when 
finally admitted, and remarks, with a toss 
of the head, ^It's a hard matter to get to see 
you, lady. If I had taken offense and gone 
away, as many would have done, you'd have 
been sorry for it one day, and not without 
reason.' " 

But ^Hhe kind tone of the answer she re- 
ceived, the sweet voice, the gentle manner, 
the absence of any accent of haughtiness or 
displeasure, took the girl completely by sur- 
prise and she burst into tears. ^Oh, lady, 
lady,' she said, clasping her hands passion- 
ately before her face, *if there was more like 
you, there would be fewer like me, there 
would, there would ! ' " 

Then comes the startling account of what 
Nancy had overheard: Monks has secured, 
by clever inquiry and bribery, the locket and 
the ring; he recognized Oliver; he alludes to 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



218 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

his father's will and speaks of the gratifica- 
tion it will be to him (Monks) to make a 
common felon of his young brother, Oliver. 
He also says with a laugh that there is some 
comfort in the fact that his identity has been 
kept from his latest friends, "since how many 
thousands and hundreds of thousands o£ 
pounds they would give to know who their 
two-legged spaniel is." 

Rejecting all Rose's efforts to place her in 
some safe refuge from her horrible associates, 
and refusing all rewards, the weeping girl 
returns to the only life she has ever known, 
arranging to repeat her evidence to some 
discreet man whom Rose is to bring to 
London Bridge. 

Nancy keeps this appointment with Rose 
and Mr. Brownlow, but it costs her her life, 
as suspicious Fagin has had her followed and 
watched. Sikes, insane with rage, brutally 
disregards her protestations that she has 
shielded him and has remained faithful to 
him. Disbelieving her, he beats her to 
death with a club, then flees vainly from the 
terrors of his own memory of the deed, and 
dies by an accident as he is trying to escape 
arrest. 

The gang is broken up by evidence in 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



OLIVER TWIST 219 

Mr. Brownlow's hands. Fagin is tried and 
hanged. 

As to Monks, whose real name is Leeford, 
Mr. Brownlow proves to be his father^s 
intimate friend, to have had first-hand infor- 
mation of all the facts the dissolute son had 
tried to conceal. Oliver is his half-brother, 
natural son of Edwin Leeford and Agnes 
Fleming, to whom he had turned in passion- 
ate love from his unhappy and wretched 
home. His will left the bulk of his property 
to Agnes (in default of other atonement) and 
to their unborn child. If a boy, however, 
he was only to inherit if he kept his name 
unstained during his minority. Rose is the 
younger sister of the unhappy Agnes. 

Monks takes the share given him and 
leaves England; Oliver is adopted by Mr. 
Brownlow; Rose marries Mrs. Maylie's son, 
Harry, and the two households enter on 
well-merited blessings and happiness. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



LE SAGE 

jfLAIN BENJELE SAGE, auOiar of one of the 
-^^ world! B most remarkable hooka, was horn on 
December IS, 1668, in a small town of western 
France. He died, nearly eighty years later, in 
1747. 

Unlike many men of genius, Le Sage did not go 
through life doing spectacular things. His father, 
who held some responsible legal positions, left a 
considerable fortune when Le Sage hecame an 
orphan as a child. His guardians either stole or 
invested with criminal carelessness the lad^s money, 
hut he was given a good education and was admitted 
to the har. Fees came in slowly and Le Sage faced 
extreme poverty. Yet he dared to marry and turned 
to the stage for means of support. 

For years he wrote,, never really su4xessful, hut 
never actually in want. He was nearly forty years 
of age when a comedy gave him a Parisian reputa- 
tion, and a novel made him known to France. The 
first two parts of "GiZ Blas^^ were published in 1716, 
hvt they were not liked so well as his earlier story. 
Le Sage, however, knew how good it was, and he 
labored over it as devotedly as a great sculptor over a 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 




ALAIN REN£ LE sage 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



LE SAGE 221 

Uodc of marble. The (hird part was not published 
urdU 17£4f ond not untU 17S6 was (he last part put 
forth. During these twenty years he had also 
turned out play after play, and numerous hooks. 
He did not cease to write until after his seventieth 
birthday had passed. 

Outside of France Le Sage wiU always live he^ 
cause of his one book that ranks among the worUPs 
masterpieces. *^GU Blas'^ is life itself , an ani- 
mated picture of Spain in its most colorful period. 
^^It is a work,^' says Sir Walter Scott, ^^which 
renders the reader pleased with himself and man- 
kind, where fauUs are placed before him in the light 
of follies rather than vices, and where misfortunes 
are so interwoven wiOt the ludicrous that we laugh 
in the very act of sympathizing with themJ^ 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



GIL BLAS 

By ALAIN RENfi LE SAGE 

Condensation by 
NATHAN HASKELL DOLE 

/^IL BLAS, the only son of an old soldier, 
^-^ had reached the age of seventeen when 
his uncle, the village priest, who had taught 
him a little Latin, Greek, and logic, sent him 
oflf with forty ducats and a bad mule to 
study divinity at Salamanca. 

His adventures began inmiediately. At 
his first stop he was cheated out of his mule; 
^ mJ^® w^ eating his dinner a wily flatterer 
mvited himself to be his guest and showed his 
gratitude by the good advice never to be 
taken in by praise. He had to pay an ex- 
orbitant reckoning and went on his way, 
'^giving to as many devils as there are saints 
in the calendar, the parasite, the landlord, 
and the inn.'' 

He soon fell into the hands of bandits, who 
made him jom them on their raids. In one 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



GIL BIAS 223 

of them they captured Dofia Mencia^ wife of 
the Marques de la Guardia, and brought her 
to theu* cavern. Gil Bias pretended to be ill 
and escaped with the grateful lady. He was 
arrested as one of the bandits, and as he was 
wearing clothes recognized by one of their 
victims, and his pockets were full of money, 
he was thrown into jail. After several weeks' 
imprisonment his innocence was established, 
but the jailer had robbed him of everything. 

At Burgos he sought out DofLa Mencia, 
who presented him with a hundred ducats 
and a costly ring. 

He bought a pretentious outfit for twice its 
value and decided that instead of becoming a 
licentiate, "he would make his way in this 
world rather than think of the next." A 
second gift of a thousand ducats from DofLa 
Mencia confirmed him in his resolve. 

He bought two mules and, hiring a servant, 
set forth for Madrid. His servant conspired 
with several rogues to make a fool of him. 
One of them, Camilla, pretending to be re- 
lated to Dofla Mencia, invited him to hired 
lodgings as if to her own home, and there he 
was feasted and flattered. As a mark of 
special favor she exchanged her ruby ring, 
which she declared was worth three hundred 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



22i ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

pistoles, for his, and procured him an invita- 
tion to a great country-seat for hunting and 
fishing. 

But when he arose in the morning his 
servant, his two mules, his portmanteau, and 
Dofia Mencia's pretended relatives had van- 
ished. The ruby ring was a cheat. 

Fortunately he fell in with a boyhood 
friend, Fabricio, at Valladolid and by his 
advice became a servant to a clergyman, the 
Canon SediUo, at whose house he led an easy 
life. The canon soon died, leaving him his 
worthless library and the good fortune of be- 
coming assistant to his physician, the famous 
Doctor Sangrado. Under him Gil Bias 
became particularly proficient in his method 
of practice, which consisted of nothing but 
blood-letting and "drenchings of water." 
He declared that he made as many widows 
and orphans as the siege of Troy; one of his 
victims was the betrothed of a giant Bis- 
cayan, who threatened him with dire ven- 
geance, and he fled to Madrid, where he 
became valet to a mysterious and wealthy 
Don Bernardo, his only duty being to keep 
the wardrobe brushed and to tend door. 
But he happened to fall in with Rolando, 
captain of the brigands; and Don Bernardo, 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



GIL BLAS 225 

seeing him in such suspicious company, 
dismissed him with six ducats. 

From one reason or another he kept chang- 
ing employers; he served now a dissipated 
hidalgo, .then an intriguing actress, then an 
aged libertine whose daughter, in gratitude 
for aiding her to win back her recreant lover, 
Don Luis Pacheco, gave him a hundred pis- 
toles, and, on her father's death, got him a 
place with still another aged rou6, Don 
Gonzales, whose dressing operations, when 
he arose at noon, reminded him of the 
resurrection of Lazarus. 

Here again he acted as intermediary in a 
love-affair, but when he told his infatuated 
employer that he was being duped he was 
turned off, though given a reconmiendation 
to the Marquesa de Chaves, reputed the 
cleverest woman in Madrid, because she was 
as solenm as an owl and rarely spoke. Her 
salon, called ^'The Fashionable Institution 
for Literature, Taste, and Science," was the 
resort for the wits and notables of Madrid. 

Here again he had easy work, but, getting 
into trouble about a girl, was compelled to 
leave the city. On his way to Toledo he 
rescued a yoimg nobleman, named Don 
Alfonso, from arrest. They became friends. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



226 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

and after Don Alfonso reached his home he 
and his father became Gil Bias's patrons, 
placing him as secretary to their relative, 
the Archbishop of Granada, who was in- 
ordinately vain and as broad as he was 
long. 

Gil Bias praised his sermons and was re- 
garded as a yoimg man of excellent judgment 
until after the prelate's mind was affected by 
apoplexy and his homilies became discordant 
ravings. Gil Bias obeyed the archbishop's 
conunand to tell him if he feU short in his 
preaching and was ignominiously packed off. 
Reduced to extremities once more, he posed 
as the brother to a disreputable actress and 
thus secured the position of secretary to a 
Portuguese grandee, the Marques de Mari- 
alva. The trick was discovered. He re- 
turned to Madrid, and after many amusing 
and not always creditable adventures was 
appointed under-secretary to the Duke of 
Lerma, prime minister to the king. His 
duties may be gaged by his conunent, ''One 
makes a merit of any dirty work in the service 
of the great." 

His experiences with the upper and the 
lower world, with actors, poets, libertines, 
physicians, bandits, adventurers, and hidal- 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



GIL BIAS 227 

gos and their servants^ had sharpened his 
wits, and his native ability and smattering of 
education gave him growing influence. He 
was courted; flattered, and bribed; his 
conceit and avarice became colossal. 

He declared that ^'a court had all the 
soporific virtues of Lethe in the case of poor 
relations" and confessed that "every trace 
of his former gay and generous temper had 
disappeared." 

Pride came before a fall. Having been 
employed to procure a questionable mistress 
for the heir-apparent, he was arrested by 
the king's orders and thrown into the dun- 
geon of Segovia. The prince intervened, 
but he was exiled from the two Castiles. 
All his property was seized and his mercenary 
engagement to a wealthy jeweler's daughter 
was broken. 

Then his friend Don Alfonso, whom he had 
got appointed as governor of Valencia, 
presented him with a small estate near that 
city. 

On his way thither he stopped at his birth- 
place and found his uncle a mental wreck and 
his mother worn out in caring for his dying 
father. He gave his father a pompous 
funeral, and settled an annuity on his 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



228 ONE HXJNDKED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

mother, but the townspeople were so indig- 
nant with him for his neglect of his family 
that they threatened to mob him. 

Glad to escape with his life, he reached 
Valencia, where he was received at his new 
home by seven or eight servants provided by 
Don Alfonso. He got rid of most of them 
and lived frugally, marrying Antonia, daugh- 
ter of his farmer, Don Basilio. But his 
idyllic happiness ended with the death of his 
wife in childbirth. 

Soon afterward the crown prince came 
to the throne and offered him a place of high 
responsibility. Gil Bias, who had learned 
wisdom, replied that "all he wanted was a 
good situation where there was no induce- 
ment to violate his conscience, and where the 
favors of his prince were not likely to be 
bartered for filthy lucre.'' 

He was made confidant to the prime 
minister, who intrusted him with the educa- 
tion of his illegitimate son and heir. This 
brought him a title. 

After some years when the duke lost the 
king's favor, Gil Bias followed him into 
retirement, and on his death was remembered 
with a bequest of ten thousand pistoles. He 
returned to his beautiful estate, made a 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



GIL BIAS 229 

Second marriage, and lived, happy and re- 
spected, training his children wisely and 
confiding to his memoirs all his errors, crimes, 
joys, and sorrows, together with his opinions 
of literature, society, and the stage. His 
narrative is interspersed with long and 
fascinating stories related by various charac- 
ters whom he had met; these and his own 
adventures furnish a vivid picture of the 
romantic Spain of the seventeenth century. 
Gil Bias is one of the wisest and most 
amusing of romances, and though it is not 
free from the coarseness permitted at that 
time, vice is not depicted attractively and 
its teaching is generally moraL 



VOL. ui.— 18 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



READE 

/^HARLES READE, English dramatist and 
^ novelist, was horn at Ipsden, Ch^ardshire, on 
June 8, I8I4. 

Although it was his wish that the word ^^dramor 
tisV* should stand first in the description of his 
occupations, recorded on his tombstone, and in his 
aims as an author, rvas dramatist first and novelist 
afterward, ever having an eye for stage effect in 
scene and situation; yet it has been claimed that he 
was wrong in his own conception of his power as 
dramatist, as his plays were often failures, while his 
novels have endured the test of time. 

His first comedy, " The Ladies^ BaiUe,^^ appeared 
ai the Olympic Theater in 1851; but his reputation 
as dramatist was made by the two-ad comedy, 
*^ Masks and Faces,^^ in which he collaborated vrUh 
Tom Taylor. By the advice of the actress, Laura 
Symons, he turned it into a prose story, which ap^ 
peared in 1853 as/' Peg WoffingtonJ' A little 
later ''Art'* appeared, afterward known as "Nance 
Oldfi^W 

Reade was assured of a reputation as a novelist 
when he published "Ifs Never Too Late to Mend.*' 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 




CHARLES READE 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



READE 231 

This 18 a novel which he wrote with the purpose of 
reforming abuses in prison discipline, and the 
ireaiment of criminals. Five other novels followed 
in quick succession: **The Course of True Love 
Never Did Run Smooth,'' ''Jack of AU Trades,'' 
'' The Autolriography of a Thief," ''Love Me Little, 
Love Me Long," and "White Lies," dramatized as 
"The Double Marriage." Then appeared "The 
Cloister and the Hearth," relaiing the adventures of 
the father of Erasmus, a story of the fifteenth cenr 
tury. His next novel of note was "Hard Cash," a 
story of modem English life. 

Reade produced three elaborate studies of characr 
tei^-"Griffith Oaunt," "A Terrible Temptation," 
and "A Simpleton." He introduced himself in 
"A Terrible Temptation" as Doctor Rolfe. 

He was an amateur of the violin, and among his 
works is an essay on Cremona violins, which is en- 
tilled "A Lost AH Revived." 

For some years Reade' s health gradually failed. 
He died on the 11th of April, 1884, leaving behind 
him a complete novel, "A Perilous Secret," which 
showed no falling off in the art of weaving a compli- 
cated plot and devising thrilling situcUions. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



PEG WOFFINGTON 

By CHARLES READE 

Condensation by 
EDWARD H. CROSBY 

pEG WOFFINGTON stood before the 
^ mirror in her dressing-room at the Theater 
Royal, Covent Garden, London. She was 
alone with her thoughts and they were both 
serious and pleasant, if the play on her mobile 
features could be taken as a criterion. She 
was summing up her eventful career from the 
time when but a child of eight, cold, ragged, 
and hungry, she had been found on the Des- 
mond Quay in Dublin by an actress who 
undertook her professional education, to the 
present moment, when, as the reigning actress 
of the British capital, she had the world at 
her feet. She was supreme in tragedy and 
captivating in comedy, and in private life 
brilliant as a conversationalist, with a wit as 
keen as it was delightful. 
And the reflection her glass threw back was 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



PEG WOFFINGTON 233 

one of rare beauty. An oval face crowned by 
tresses which equaled the ebon of the raven's 
plumage, lustrous eyes in which the emotions 
constantly played, and a poise that nothing 
apparently could disturb. Yet there was a 
curious expression on her handsome features, 
a look which she had never before witnessed. 
For Peg WoflSngton, for the first time in her 
life, was in love. 

She had many admirers and quite a few 
flirtations, but they had all been ephemeral, 
as Peg WoflSngton could quickly detect idle 
flattery and the sycophancies of the jeunesse 
doree which himg about her shrine. She 
was a woman of the world, keen, suspicious, 
and cynical, and while she toyed with her 
gallants, her heart and soul were in her work. 
But one evening she noticed in a box a face 
new to the theater. He was a man evidently 
from the provinces, but he gazed at her with 
undisguised admiration. Night after night he 
was at his post, listening attentively to every 
word she spoke and with an immistakable air 
of respect. 

She waited, thinking like all the others he 
would seek an interview, but as time went on 
and he made no attempt to bring about an 
acquaintance. Peg's curiosity was piqued and 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



284 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

by guarded inquiries she learned that he was 
Ernest Vane, a country gentl^nan of means 
and routed a bachelor. One night, how* 
ever, Mr. Vane was brought to the green- 
room by Sir Charles Pomander, a man about 
town who had long but unsuccessfully sought 
to win Peg's favor. Miss WofiBngton was 
not in the room when Mr. Vane first arrived. 
He quickly adapted himself to the novel 
surrounding and launched into a eulogy 
of Peg's personal charms and histrionic 
ability. 

During Mr. Vane's remarks Peg had en- 
tered the room and overheard her praises so 
eloquently sung, and, knowing that Mr. Vane 
was imaware of her presence, she was im- 
pressed with his fflncerity. Then they were 
introduced and Mr. Vane was almost speech- 
less with admiration. All that his imagina- 
tion had painted was more than realized. 
Her beauty, her intelligence, her gracious- 
ness, were overpowering and Mr. Vane, in 
his embarrassment, could only stanuner a few 
conunonplaces. Here indeed was a novelty 
and her curiosity turned to interest. 

She was stiU cautious and would treat her 
new-found friend with varying moods, some- 
times cordial and then again coldly, but all 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



PEG WOFFINGTON 236 

the white she was leamii^ more and more ci 
the man who had eome into her life. 

As she stood before her mirror she was 
awaiting the arrival of Mr. Vane. They had 
become warm friends^ much more on the 
part of Mr. Vane, who had openly declared 
his love and had sent her many tokens of his 
affection, which Peg had accepted, but with 
her peculiar whim she had declined anything 
save some inexpensive gift, telling her lover 
that it was the sentiment which she desired, 
not the intrinsic value of the present. She 
had decided to reveal to Mr. Vane that she, 
in turn, loved him, but the old, suspicious 
feeling would not leave her. 

When they were alone together Peg placed 
her hands on Vane's shoulders and, gazing 
fixedly into his eyes, said: 

'^ Ernest, we actresses make good the old 
proverb 'many lovers, few friends,' but no 
one outside our circle knows how much we 
need a friend. Will you be one to me?" 

And Ernest promised faithfully that he 
would, while life remained. 

Then she gave herself up to the intoxica- 
tion of the moment. With all her adulation 
Peg was lonely. There had been no one to 
whom she could go and open her heart with 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



236 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

a sense of security, and when Vane poured 
into her willing ear his avowals of undying 
love and devotion, P^'s hungry soul drank 
in his words as the thirsty earth absorbs 
refreshing showers. She was supremely 
happy, more so than she had ever dared to 
be, and the thought almost frightened her as 
she built dreams for a bright future. 

Sir Charles Pomander did not at all relish 
the turn affairs had taken. He had planned 
many schemes to win Peg's affection, and 
when he witnessed the triumph of one he 
regarded as a rank outsider his love turned to 
hate. He endeavored insidiously to poison 
Vane's mind with stories of Peg WoflSngton's 
past life, and on one occasion he was nearly 
successful. James TripletJ^a hanger-on at 
Covent Garden, was recognized by Peg as 
one who had befriended her in the early days 
of poverty. Triplet was a playwright and 
scene-painter, and to give him assistance Peg 
offered him a commission to paint her por- 
trait. Peg's visits to Triplet's studio were 
told by Sir Charles to Vane, as evidences of 
Peg's faithlessness, but the falsity of the 
charges was soon proved and Vane's infatua- 
tion was stronger than ever. Sir Charles 
had almost abandoned hope of defeating his 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



PEG WOFFINGTON 237 

rival unta one day, when returning to London 
from the country, he gave assistance to a 
woman whose coach had become disabled. 

The beauty of the lady so impressed Sir 
Charies that he sent his servant to leam her 
identity, and the man brought back word that 
she was Mrs. Ernest Vane. A deadly weapon 
was thus placed in Sir Charles's hands, but he 
refrained from making public his information 
until the proper moment. A banquet had 
been arranged by Mr. Vane in honor of Peg 
WoflSngton, and Sir Charles managed to have 
Mrs. Vane appear when the festivities were 
at their height. 

His scheme was successful and the effect 
of Mrs. Vane's advent was electric. Mr. 
Vane, not knowing that his wife was in town, 
was filled with consternation, but Peg's tact 
did not desert her even in this trying mo- 
ment and she introduced those present as 
members of the nobility. Mrs. Vane was 
not suspicious and accepted the situation in 
good faith, but Triplet, who had brought 
verses in honor of Miss WoflSngton and being 
unaware of Mrs. Vane's identity, revealed 
the true facts and the wife was heartbroken 
at her husband's inconstancy. 

As for Peg, she was furious at the deception 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



238 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

placed upon her. She fully believed that 
Mr. Vane was free to woo her, and then in a 
moment her dreams were rudely shattered 
and her faith in mankind destroyed. She 
determined to take desperate revenge. She 
would keep Vane at her side in spite of the 
wife, and then, when he was firmly in her 
toils, she would publicly discard him. Filled 
with these thoughts, she went to Triplet's 
studio, where the portrait he had painted was 
to be exhibited. 

The first glance showed the picture to be a 
wretched failure and even Triplet acknowl- 
edged his defeat. But there was no time to 
lose, for the critics were already approaching 
the studio. Peg, with a sudden inspiration, 
cut the face from the portrait and, having 
arranged the draperies so that her body 
would be concealed, she placed her own 
features in the aperture. The comments of 
the connoisseurs were ludicrous, some declar- 
ing there was not the slightest resemblance 
to the original, others that the flesh tints 
were imperfect, and still others that the 
drawing was out of all proportions. When 
the opinions had been expressed. Peg came 
from behind the easel and expressed her 
views in true Milesian manner. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



PEG WOFFINGTON 239 

Peg remained after the others had departed 
and told Triplet of her intentions toward 
Mr. Vane. Unexpectedly Mrs. Vane knocked 
at the door of the studio. She had been 
followed by Sir Charles Pomander and had 
sought refuge from his attentions. Peg had 
no desire to meet Mrs. Vane, but there was 
not sufficient time to escape, so once more she 
went behind the easel and placed her face in 
the portrait. Mrs. Vane, after explaining her 
presence, noticed the picture and exclaimed: 

"You are a great artist, Mr. Triplet; the 
likeness actually breathes. Oh, that she 
were here, instead of this wonderful image of 
her. I would speak to her. I am not wise 
or learned, but orators never pleaded as I 
would plead to her for my Ernest's heart.'' 

She paused for a moment, and then, 
addressmg the pipture, she continued: 

"Oh yes, you are beautiful, you are gifted, 
and the eyes of thousands wait on your every 
word and look. What wonder that he, ar- 
dent, refined, and genial, should lay his heart 
at your feet. I cannot take him from you, 
but, oh, be generous to the weak and give him 
back to me ! Give him back to me, beautiful, 
terrible woman and I will love you longer 
than men can love! " 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



240 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

Suddenly she started back with a wild 
scream. 

"It is alive!" she cried, and, running to 
Triplet, hid her face on his shoulder. 

For Peg had been so affected by the piteous 
appeal of the heartbroken woman that with 
all her self-control she could not check the 
tears which coursed down her cheeks. Peg 
ordered Triplet to leave the room, and when 
the two women were alone Peg turned to 
Mrs. Vane and said, calmly: 

"I trust, madam, you will do me the justice 
to believe I did not know Mr. Vane was 
married?" 

"I am sure of it," replied Mrs. Vane. 
"You are as good as you are gifted." 

Peg then promised to so degrade herself in 
Vane^s eyes that he would leave her in dis- 
gust, but to this plan Mrs. Vane refused to 
agree. Finally Peg arrayed herself in Mrs. 
Vane's cloak and hood, threw a note from 
the window to Sir Charles, who was waiting 
below, which she knew would bring that 
worthy into the room, and then despatched 
Triplet to sunoimon Mr. Vane to the studio, 
Mrs. Vane concealing herself in an adjoining 
apartment. Sir Charles responded to the 
summons immediately, and in a moment was 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



PEG WOFFINGTON 241 

making violent love to Peg, whom he mistook 
for Mrs. Vane. 

In the height of a most impassioned scene 
Vane entered and made the same error as 
did Sir Charles. Swords were drawn, but 
Peg disclosed herself before matters became 
serious. The thought that his wife was be- 
loved by another produced such a shock to 
Mr. Vane that he realized he still loved her 
and the two departed together, leaving Peg 
with her unhappy thoughts. 

P^ WoflSngton never recovered from this 
episode. She plunged once more into her 
work, but life had lost all its interest. She 
did not remain long on the stage, but retired 
to private life and devoted herself to charity, 
Mr. and Mrs. Vane being her stanch friends 
while she lived. Her grave in the little 
churchyard of Teddington, England, is the 
Mecca of thousands who pay tribute to the 
memory of the actress and the woman. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



THACKERAY 

nnWICE in hi8 laler years did WiUiam Make- 
** peace Thackeray seek temporarily anofker 
career (han that of atdhorship. Shor&y before 
writing '*The Virginians** he tried tmsuccess- 
fuUy to capture a seat in Parliament. Petitics had 
abvays attracted hinif alOumgh his temperament was 
wholly unsuUed to popular demands. 

He was a radical, sympathizing with Richard 
Cdbden in his anti^ornriaw fight. ''/ toould Wee 
to see aU men equal,'* he wrote in ISJjO^ *^and this 
bloated aristocracy blasted to the wings of aU winds." 
He was never^less absolutely opposed to any at- 
tempt on (he part of (he people to win their rights by 
force. His attitude is interesting in the light of to- 
day's radicalism^ as is also his firm advocacy qf 
Ireland s right to have home rule. 

After finishing **The Virginians** Thackeray 
became (he first editor of " The ComMll Magazine.** 
His own wide popularity practically insured the 
initial success of (he venture. Qf (he first number 
one hundred and twenty (housand copies were sold. 
The most distinguished writers of (he day were at- 
tracted as conlribulors through (he editor's prestige, 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 




WILLIAM MAKEPEACE THACKERAY 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



THACKERAY 243 

and (he " ComhiU " furnished magazine-readers with 
better fiction and articles than can be found Uhday in 
any successful English periodical. 

AlOiough Thackeray was a good editor in many 
ways, he was handicapped by too tender a heart. 
He could not refuse poems and articles, however 
uninspired and even maudUn, if the wriiers needed 
money. So a few months later he gladly resigned 
his position and returned to noveUwrUing. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



THE VIRGINIANS 

By WILLIAM MAKEPEACE THACKERAY 

Condensation by 
SARA WARE BASSETT 

\7IRGINIA in the days of Washington's 
^ early manhood; Virginia with its vast 
tobacco plantations sloping to the river, its 
myriads of slaves, its great estates where, 
loyal to the king, the master was above all 
else a gentleman and a sportsman, and the 
mistress a lady who directed the affairs of 
her household with the imperiousness of a 
princess of the blood; a Virginia of stiff bro- 
cades, of hoops and powdered wigs; a land 
where hospitality ran free and good wine was 
never wanting — such is the setting chosen by 
Thackeray for his sequel to Henry Esmond, 
the tale entitled The Virginians. 

It was a picturesque period in history, and 
the author of the novel was indeed daring to 
present to us in the first pages of his book 
George Washington, the young Colonial 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



THE VIRGINIANS 246 

colonel, who comes hither in his coach from 
his adjoining estate to visit Madam Esmond, 
the daughter of our old friend Henry Es- 
mond, at her American home, "Castlewood,*' 
and there meet her nineteen-year-old twin 
sons, George Esmond Warrington and Harry 
Warrington. Hither, also, comes General 
Braddock, the English commander who ex- 
pects with the aid of his forces to bring about 
an end to the French and Indian wars; and 
in his company is Benjamin Franklin, the 
Philadelphia printer. 

Ah, Thackeray had courage to present to 
us in the flesh these familiar celebrities! 

But he does it delightfully. 

We see George Washington, a frequent and 
welcome guest at "Castlewood,'' greeting 
the Widow Esmond with friendship so ardent 
that her sons, jealous of every attention 
paid their mother, mistake his gallantry for 
a tenderer sentiment and are on the point of 
challenging the colonel to a duel when they 
discover their error. Afterward George, the 
elder twin by the narrow margin of a half- 
hour, goes forth with Braddock and Wash- 
ington into the campaign that costs the 
English general his life and in which the 
king's troops are defeated by the French and 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



246 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

Indians. From this disastrous pilgrimage 
Washington's yomig aid, George Esmond 
Warrington, fails to return, and great is the 
grief at "Castlewood." Madam Esmond re- 
proaches Colonel Washington that he should 
come back unscathed when her son is missing. 
As for Harry, the loss of his elder brother so 
overwhelms him that it is deemed wise to 
send him on a sea voyage to England in 
the hope of diverting him from constantly 
mourning the twin he so devotedly loved. 

Hence we next behold Harry at the home 
of his English cousins at " Castlewood, " 
where, we regret to say, he at jfirst receives 
but a scant welcome. My Lord Castlewood 
and the ladies would not have tolerated either 
Harry or his black servant Gumbo had not 
Aunt Bernstein, the Beatrix Esmond of 
Harry's grandfather's day, been a guest at 
the house. Although the baroness is now old 
and has lost her beauty, she has not lost her 
money, and because the impoverished Cas- 
tlewoods are eager to inherit the latter they 
dare not oppose her. She will have Harry 
Warrington welcomed to the home of his 
ancestors. 

Therefore the young American is granted 
a tardy invitation to the family estate to 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



THE VIRGINIANS 247 

which his grandfather, Henry Esmond, al- 
though the rightful heir, waived all claims 
before emigrating to Virginia. 

Harry is an ingratiating young fellow and 
his aunt Bernstein promptly falls in love 
with him, urging him to go with her to Tun- 
bridge Wells, a fashionable resort whither she 
is bound. The shrewd old woman is in- 
sistent in her demand, for she sees that the 
unsophisticated lad has already developed a 
passion for the Right Honorable Maria Es- 
mond, my Lord Castlewood's sister, and a 
woman more than twice Harry's age. 

The boy himself realizes his mistake, but 
he is an Esmond and a Virginian, and for 
such there is no drawing back. 

Madam Bernstein is not so scrupulous, 
however. 

Harry is young and, as his black servant 
shamelessly asserts, royally rich. 

He can do better for himself and the family 
than throw himself away on a scheming 
woman who is penniless and who has none 
too good a reputation. Indeed, there is 
scarcely one Castlewood whose past would 
bear inspection. Even the escutcheon of 
the baroness herself is dingy and tarnished. 
She is nevertheless kind-hearted and sin- 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



248 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

cerely fond of Harry, and, therefore, with 
coach and postilions and outriders and 
trunks and servants, she bears him and his 
Lady Maria away with her to Tunbridge 
Wells. 

On the journey Harry is thrown from his 
horse, and, his shoulder being injured, he is 
carried into the nearest house, which proves 
to be the home of Colonel Lambert, whose 
wife was an old school friend of Harry's 
mother. Of course the Lamberts cannot do 
enough for the boy. Theo and Hetty, the 
charming daughters of the family, are never 
tired waiting on him; and when he rides 
away to join his aunt four days later he has 
formed a strong friendship with the Lambert 
family. Already the memory of the fair 
Maria is a bit dimmed. 

Ah, when he reaches Tunbridge Wells 
what a little world of fashion and corruption 
it is! Our Virginian has never seen any- 
thing of the like before. Nor does he see it 
now with discerning eye. The little painted 
dancer whom the Earl of March has in his 
company must surely be as beautiful as she 
looks; and the men of rank with their 
gaming and drinking are gentlemen all, in 
simple Harry's estimation. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



THE VIRGINIANS 240 

The fame of the Virguiian has preceded 
him. 

The tales told of his wealth have rolled up 
mitil he has become a veritable prince with 
gold micomited, numberless acres of land, 
slaves, tobacco-fields — diamond-mines if you 
will* As Aunt Bernstein has spread some of 
these tidings, she begs her nephew not to 
disgrace her by contradictmg them, and 
therefore what can he do? There is no choice 
but to live the rich Virginian, spend money 
freely, gamble as does all the world of 
fashion, and these things Harry Esmond 
Warrington proceeds to do. 

It is not a difficult r61e to play. 

All Tunbridge is at his feet. 

Jewelers, drapers, dancing-masters wait 
on him. 

He gambles and wins — continues to gamble 
and win. 

He becomes known as the "Fortimate 
Youth.'' 

Everything he touches turns to money. 

But the lad does not become a profligate; 
there is too fine stuff in him. He is foolish, 
mayhap; but he is ever an Esmond and a 
Virginian. Men like him because he is 
honest; women because he is chivalrous. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



250 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

Again and again Aunt Bernstein tries to 
bres^ off his engagement to Maria. She 
even appeals to that lady herself. But 
Maria will not give up her treasure. A rich 
and handsome young husband is no easy 
prize to win. She has Harry's word and she 
will hold him to it. 

The baroness is in despair. She will send 
Maria home and Harry to London on some 
trumped-up errand or other. 

The boy has never seen London, and what 
a realm of enchantment it is! The fireworks 
at Vauxhall; the theater where Garrick plays 
to royalty; Doctor Johnson, Sir Joshua Rey- 
nolds, and the wits of the day whom one 
meets at White's or the Cocoa-Tree ! What is 
Tunbridge Wells after seeing London ! Harry 
takes lodgings — ^luxurious lodgings, for must 
he not maintain the dignity of his family? 
And he goes to White's in his chair, where the 
gay macaronis are only too ready to welcome 
him and gamble the gold from out his pocket. 
To London, too, come the Lamberts, and with 
them General Wolfe, whom Harry has already 
met at Tunbridge. Everybody comes to 
London, and an alluring career our Vir- 
ginian leads there. Then suddenly his luck 
changes. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



THE VIRGINIANS 251 

One evening he loses at White's; he loses a 
second evening, and a third. He plays with 
my Lord Castlewood (my lord's honor at 
cards might be challenged) and all his hoard 
of wealth is swept away. Creditors appear. 
Tradesmen who were servile but a day or two 
before now become insolent. Presently on 
returning from an evening party Harry 
Warrington is arrested for debt and led away 
to Chancery Lane. 

It is incredible! The misfortune is, how- 
ever, merely temporary, he tells himself. 
Some one of the many friends who have 
shared his money and drunk his wine will, of 
course, come forward and go bail for him. 
He writes to first one and then another. Not 
one of them will aid him. The baroness 
sends a proposal that if he will give up his 
marriage to Lady Maria she will pay his 
debts and release him from his present em- 
barrassing dilemma. This Harry refuses to 
do. Has not Maria but a moment before 
come to him, loyally offering to give him her 
jewelry and trinkets? Keen-eyed woman of 
the world that she is, Maria has not mis- 
calculated the effect of this dramatic action. 
It binds Harry to her more securely than 
ever. 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



262 ONiS HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

It is just as Colonel Lambert and General 
Wolfe are coming to the boy's aid that a 
miracle occurs. 

Into the jail stalks George Esmond War- 
rington, the beloved brother who was sup- 
posed to have been killed two years before. 
He quickly discharges Harry's indebtedness 
and the two go away together, happy as 
children. 

But what a revolution the appearance of 
this elder brother makes in society's attitude 
toward poor Harry! He is no longer the 
favored child of fortune. Debts are nothing 
— everybody has those. Nor is the jail a 
disgrace. Many a darling of fashion has 
passed a night there. But to be a younger 
son! Society turns up its nose. Accord- 
ingly it is George Esmond Warrington who 
now becomes the idol, while Harry is thrust 
into the background. Acquaintances pass 
him by. What right had the wretch to mas- 
querade as heir to the Esmond estates? The 
story of his brother's rescue from death is a 
thin one. No doubt the scapegrace knew all 
along that George was alive. 

Had there not been the deepest and most 
enduring affection between the twins such a 
state of affairs might perhaps have created a 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



THE VIRGINIANS 253 

breach between them. As it is they pay no 
heed to society's cruel tongue. 

George meets the baroness, the Castle- 
woods, and the Lamberts, and immediately 
falls in love with Theo. He also meets Lady 
Maria, and after telling her that Harry will 
now have no fortune that far-sighted world- 
ling breaks oflf the match of her own accord. 
It was the money she wanted, not Harry. 

Our young rascal is jubilant enough to be 
free and in due time casts in his lot with the 
army, going with the English to France and 
later with General Wolfe against Canada. 
In both these campaigns he wins distinction 
which reinstates him with his former friends. 

But he has had enough of London. 

His mother is growing old and he will go 
to her. 

He arrives just as the Colonies are on the 
brink of revolution. 

Madam Esmond is still a stout royalist; 
but Harry, a child of the younger generation, 
is a Virginian, an American. He joins 
General Washington, the friend of his youth, 
and serves under him through the war for 
independence. 

In the mean time George Esmond War- 
rington, dressed in a coat of scarlet, is serv- 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



254 ONE HUNDRED BEST NOVELS CONDENSED 

ing the king in the command of General 
Clinton. 

The two factions clash; but the Warring- 
tons contrive to meet and exchange greetings. 
Their politics may differ, but their hearts are 
imchanged one toward the other. 

Eventually George weds Theo Lambert 
and settles down in the Old World, an English 
gentleman; but General Harry Warrington 
ends his days in Virginia. 

"On the library wall of one of the most 
famous writers of America there hang two 
crossed swords which his relatives wore in 
the great War of Independence. The one 
sword was gallantly drawn in the service of 
the king, the other was the weapon of a 
brave and honored republican soldier," says 
Thackeray. "The colonel in scarlet, and 
the general in blue and buff, hang side by side 
in the wainscoted parlor of the Warringtons 
in England, their love never having ma- 
terially diminished, however angrily the 
contest divided them. . . . These eflfigies 
have always gone by the name of 'The 
Virginians, ' by which name their memoirs are 
christened." 

END OF VOL. Ill 

Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 



Digitized by VjOOQ IC 







Dig 



ized by Google 



