
Class XA515LL 

Copyright N°. 

COEXRIGHT DEFOSm 



FOOD EFFICIENCY 

OR 

THE BEST FOOD FOR THE LEAST MONEY 



Food Efficienc}^ 



or 



The Best Food for the Least 
Moneys 

By 

Marjr M. Gillis 



International Letter Club 

Jersey City New Jersey 






Copyright, 1920, by 
INTERNATIONAL LETTER CLUB 



DEC -b 1920 
^CI.A601844 



THE AIM OF THIS BOOK 

This work is not intended as a text-book for food 
experts and does not claim to be exact on nutritive 
values. To arrive at an absolutely accurate calculation 
of the nutritive values of food consumed by individuals 
is perhaps an impossible task, even for expert food 
chemists. 

The author's aim is to present a simple account of 
the food expenses of her own home, with the total 
calorific value of each item of the food consumed, fig- 
ured approximately. Recipes and menus are explained 
in detail, with little talks on some of the different 
foods. 

The housewife who has a fair understanding of 
nutritive values can select her foods so as to get the 
greatest amount of nutriment for the least money. 
This knowledge of values will also assist her to pre- 
pare and handle the food in her home in such a way 
as to reduce waste to a minimum. 

The author of the work aims to call attention to 
errors and wasteful methods, and to suggest better 
ways. It would be impossible to mention all the good 
foods in a work of this size, and it so happens that 
some common and excellent foods have been omitted 
in th« tests. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 

PAGE 

CHAPTER I— Miscellaneous Remarks ii 

How Much Money Do You Need to Start 
Housekeeping? — Just a Few Words with 
Father — A Tip to Mother — Vitamines — 
How to Reduce Weight. 

CHAPTER II— Food and Health 22 

Indigestion — Poor Cooking — Knowledge of 
Food — Tuberculosis — Contagious Diseases 
—Cancer. 

CHAPTER III— Food for Children 27 

(Written by a Child Specialist) 
The Pregnant Woman — How She Should 
Care for Herself and What She Should Eat 
—The Birth of the Child; How to Guard 
Against Defective Eyesight or Possible 
Blindness— What the Child Should Eat- 
Some Common Child Diseases, and How 
to Guard Against Them, Etc. 

CHAPTER IV— Food Elements 41 

Food Waste — Chemical Elements of the 
Body — Food Principles — The Calorimeter- 
Protein Foods, Etc. 

CHAPTER V— Living on 11^ Cents a Meal 46 

An itemized account of food used by two 
people during the second week of January, 
1918. 



CHAPTER VI— Living on 10 Cents a Meal 69 

Same as Chapter V for the week following. 
7 



CONTENTS 



PAGE 



CHAPTER VII— Living on Nine Cents a Meal. . 88 

Another week's itemized account of plain 
foods. 



CHAPTER VIII— Living on i2i^ Cents a MeaL . 103 

An itemized account of the food used by 
two people for the week beginning March 
31, 1919. 

CHAPTER IX — Living on 163/^ Cents a Meal... 117 

An account of food used by three people in 
June, 1919. 

CHAPTER X — Living on 16 Cents a Meal . . 134 

An itemized account of food used by five 
people in September, 1919 — 12 selected pud- 
ding recipes. 

CHAPTER XI— Tables of Food Values........ 156 

A table of food values — Foods rich in pro- 
tein — Foods rich in Carbohydrates — Foods 
with a high percentage of fat. 



APPENDIX ...>.. 173 

8 ways of using meat — Forty-five ways of 
using mutton — 12 ways of using peanuts— 
22 ways of using cheese — 42 ways of using 
corn meal— 47 ways of using honey— 71 
ways of using vegetables, 



FOODS USED 



Apples 
Apple Pie 
Apple Sauce 
Asparagus 

Bacon 

Baking Powder 

Bananas 

Barley 

Beans, Dried 

Beans, String 

Beef, Boiling 

Beef, Cold 

Beef Broth 

Beets 

Biscuits 

Blueberries 

Bread 

Bread, Peanut 

Bread, Raisin 

Bread, Whole Wheat 

Bread, Rye 

Bread Pudding 

Breakfast Foods, Homemade 

Buckwheat 

Buns 

Butter, Dairy 

Butter, Nut 

Buttermilk 

Cabbage 

Cake 

Candy 

Carrots 

Celery 

Cheese 

Chocolate 

Chocolate Pudding 

Cocoa 

Codfish 

Coffee 



Com, Canned 

Corn, Cob 

Cornmeal 

Corn Muffins 

Corn Mush 

Cornstarch 

Cornstarch Pudding 

Crackers 

Cream 

Cream of Wheat 

Crisco 

Crullers 

Cucumbers 

Doughnuts 

Eggs 

Farina 

Fish 

Flour, Wheat 

Flour, Whole Wheat 

Fruit, Fresh 

Fruit, Stewed 

Grape Fruit 
Grape Nuts 

Ham 

Hash 

Herring 

Horse-radish 

Hooverized Pie 

Ice Cream 
Iced Tea 

Jams 
Johnny Cake 

Kelloggs' Crumbles 
Ketchup 



10 



FOODS USED 



Lamb Chops 

Lard 

Lemons 

Lemonade 

Lettuce 

Macaroni 

Mackerel 

Meat 

Milk, Condensed 

Milk, Evaporated 

Milk, Whole 

Milk, Skimmed 

Milk Toast 

Molasses 

Mustard 

Mutton 

Noodles 
Nuts 

Oatmeal 

Oatmeal Muffins 
Onions 
Oranges 

Pancake Flour 
Peaches 
Peanuts 
Peanut Butter 
Peanut Bread 
Peas, Canned 
Peas, Green 
Peas, Split 
Pie, Apple 
Pie, Raisin 
Pie Crust 
Potatoes, Sweet 
Potatoes, White 
Potatoes, Fried 
Potatoes, Boiled 
Potatoes, Baked 
Pork 

Pork Chops 
Prunes 



Radishes 

Raisin Bread 

Raisins 

Rhubarb 

Rice 

Rice Pudding 

Rolls 

Ruta-bagas 

Sago 

Salad Dressing 

Salads 

Salmon 

Salt 

Sausage, Frankfort 

Sausage, Wienerwurst 

Spaghetti 

Soup, Split Pea 

Soup, Noodle 

Soup, Rice 

Soup, Thick 

Soup, Bean 

Steak, Sirloin 

Steak, Round 

Steak, Porterhouse 

Stew 

Sugar 

Syrup, Corn 

Syrup, Maple 

Syrup, Karo 

Tapioca 

Tea 

Toast 

Tomatoes, Fresh 

Tomatoes, Canned 

Turnips 

Veal 

Veal Broth 

Wheat Cakes 
Wheat, Shredded 
Wheat, Whole 



CHAPTER I 
MISCELLANEOUS REMARKS 

HOW MUCH MONEY DO YOU NEED TO START 
HOUSEKEEPING? 

nnHIS is a question which thousands of young people 
would like answered. From personal observation 
among a large number of people, the writer believes 
that a young couple can start housekeeping with a 
very small amount of money, provided that they are 
both thrifty and industrious and do not run extrava- 
gantly into debt. Debt is the one big nightmare that 
causes endless worry and blots reputation. 

There is no objection to a young couple's going in 
debt to start housekeeping, provided that they do not 
do so out of proportion to their income, which they 
are very apt to do if not guided by the experience of 
older people. But it is far better to try to save up a 
few dollars before marriage, and then to get merely 
what will suffice, than to buy a large amount "on tick." 

The writer started housekeeping with a bed, a table, 
three chairs, a stove, and a bureau. There is a certain 
sense of pleasure every time a new piece is added to the 
home and paid for. One of the happiest families that 
the writer has ever known grew from a union where 
the capital was $2.00 the day after the wedding. Now 
this couple own their own home, and, although they 
are gray-haired, they are still playmates with their 
children and grandchildren. 

Another advantage In starting with little is that 

11 



12 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

it Is an excuse to avoid wasteful entertaining. There 
is usually a mistaken tendency on the part of young 
people to entertain their friends beyond their means. 
Very often one can trace back and find that entertain- 
ment was the opening wedge of unhappiness between 
husband and wife. A few friends, the kind that you 
can invite to your home and not feel embarrassed when 
you have them sit on a box for want of a chair, are 
worth a thousand of the "make-believe" kind. 

Most young men of twenty-five should be married. 
They would be better off morally, physically, and 
mentally. Insurance statistics prove that married men 
live longer than bachelors. "The high cost of living," 
or "hard times," should never be used as an excuse to 
put off marriage. 

The reason that many women remain unmarried or 
are unhappily married is primarily because they are 
looking for money instead of a man, and men, realizing 
this fact, become poorer men, cheaper men, less hon- 
orable men, in trying to supply this demand. The 
greatest luxury in the world for any woman is hard 
work that does not injure her health. That woman 
who gets plenty of hard work and enjoys it will jelish 
a rest or a little pleasure like sugar in her coffee. But 
she who IS trying to escape hard work and fill her life 
with pleasure is like the fool who would try to live on 
sugar alone. There is little happiness in this world 
for any man or woman who is not willing to do honest 
hard work and plenty of it. 

Observation will convince the average person that 
the mother who has had the trials, struggles, and suf- 
ferings of bringing up a large family is healthier and 



MISCELLANEOUS REMARKS 13 

happier than the woman who has either no children 
or only one or two. Another very curious fact i^ that 
large families of children seem, as a rule, healthier 
than those with only one child. 

If we look around among our married acquaint- 
ances and pick out a few v/omen who have had but 
single love affairs, or very few admirers before mar- 
riage, and then compare them with an equal number 
of married women v/ho boast of all the chances they 
had to marry, we shall have to admit that the greater 
portion of happiness is surely with the single-love- 
affair women. 

On the other hand, some young people, girls espe- 
cially, are prone to rush into marriage at the very first 
opportunity, without waiting to decide their fitness 
for mating. 

The writer has had a vast opportunity to study 
conditions in the home, and one of the things that 
stand out very clearly in these studies is the fact that 
the girl who makes the best cook and housekeeper 
lives the happiest life. Of course, there are excep- 
tions, but the odds are certainly with the girl who 
can cook and likes to do so. 

Girls of business training who apply this training 
to their home, are, as a rule, excellent home makers. 

JUST A FEW WORDS WITH FATHER 

It is very easy to acquire a habit of finding fault 
with things in general at home. If your wife started 
to find fault with your work that she doesn't know 
anything about, you would think she was losing her 



14 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

mind, and you might be pretty near right at that. 
The easiest thing in the world is to find fault. A man 
will find fault with the way his wife does her work 
and the way she spends her money, when he hasn't 
the slightest idea of what it costs to run the home or 
what work there is to be done. 

Suppose your wife is spending her money foolishly, 
doing her work carelessly, or is even plain lazy. How 
are you going to cure it? You can't fire her, and 
even if you could, you would run the risk of getting 
even a worse one. You can't cure your wife's faults 
by "going up in the air" every day and throwing off 
blue language. That will make her tricky and de- 
ceitful, and she will try to hide her mistakes and 
shortcomings from you. 

There is only one business-like way for best results. 
First gain her complete confidence; then learn some- 
thing about housekeeping by helping her with it. The 
first day you have at home, just pitch right in and 
work at the same kind of work that she does. Help 
with the cooking and cleaning and the hundred and 
one other things. Go to the stores with her and 
carry the bundles while she does the marketing. If 
you do this for awhile, you will learn two things. The 
first is, that there is more work about a house than 
you had ever dreamed of. And the second is, that 
you will discover your wife's real inefficiencies. 

You may discover some short cuts, or you may 
devise some system that will lessen the work or im- 
prove the cooking. You may even discover a way 
to cut down on the expenses. As a rule, a man's 
mind is more inventive than a woman's ; in fact, most 



MISCELLANEOUS REMARKS IS 

of the kitchen utensils and labor-saving devices for 
the home were invented by men. So if you do house- 
work for awhile, you will at least find less fault with 
your wife afterwards, even if you cannot suggest any- 
thing that will help. 

If you are not willing to do that, keep quiet and 
put up with things as you find them. When you feel 
like bossing your wife about her work, just stop and 
try to imagine some outsider who knows nothing 
about your work coming in and bossing you. But, 
above all, remember that general fault-finding bears 
no good results. 

A TIP TO MOTHER— DO YOU GET YOUR HUS- 
BAND'S BREAKFAST? 

If a man begins his day's work with a grouch, he 
starts with a handicap. This applies particularly to 
the man who does brain work in association with 
other people. If a man jumps out of bed at the last 
minute, and then has to potter around the kitchen 
getting himself a cup of coffee, he is not likely to be 
in his best mood. On the other hand, a tasty break- 
fast prepared by his wife may tempt him to get from 
under the covers just a little sooner, and he will be 
more likely to start the day's work in good humor. 
He will be more efficient. Therefore, if you want the 
contents of the pay envelope to grow, keep your 
hubby smiling, especially at breakfast-time. 

THE CARE OF FOOD IN THE HOME 

Cleanliness is the all-important thing in the kitchen. 
Millions of tiny little living things, called micron 
organisms, are present everywhere and soon start to 



16 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

grow in our food, if given a chance. Many of these 
are known to us as moulds, yeasts, and bacteria. 
Moulds need only warmth and moisture to enable 
them to grow on food, and yeast grows best at a tem- 
perature of 70 to 90 degrees Fahrenheit. Bacteria are 
in the air, in water, and in food, and multiply rapidly 
under favorable conditions, but they require at least 
25 per cent, of moisture in which to live and multiply. 

There are three things that are very deadly to all 
micro-organisms — ^heat, cold, sunlight. Bacteria and 
moulds will not grow in a temperature near the freez- 
ing point nor in water near the boiling point. Ice 
boxes, storerooms, and cellars should be kept dry and 
cool. Unslaked lime in an open container will absorb 
much moisture in a cellar or storeroom. All kitchen 
utensils, dishes, and dishcloths should be thoroughly 
cleaned in boiling water, with soap or bicarbonate of 
soda. 

Meats, milk, and all raw fruit should be handled 
with the greatest care, especially in hot weather. 

Ptomaine poisoning is the result of bacterial action 
in food, so too much care cannot be taken in both 
selecting food and in caring for it after wC' get it 
home. 

VITAMINES 

The word "vitamines" is not found in the average 
standard dictionary because it is a term of compara- 
tively recent origin. It is applied to a substance 
known to exist in a variety of foods. As yet the chem- 
ical composition of vitamines is unknown, but many 
practical experiments have proved that they are nee- 



MISCELLANEOUS REMARKS 17 

essary to maintain life in man and beast. Rats, 
pigeons, guinea-pigs, are used a great deal for experi- 
ments, and it has been found that they live but a 
short time ■without vitamines. Very recently it has 
been discovered that yeast v/ill not grow without a 
certain vitamine. It has long been known that a diet 
consisting chiefly of polished rice causes a disease 
known as beri-beri, and it was perhaps, while trying 
to locate the real nature or cause of this disease, that 
vitamines were discovered. 

It is now reasonably certain that at least three dis- 
eases, beri-beri, scurvy, and rickets, are the direct re- 
sult of lack of vitamines, so we may safely assume that 
many of our other ills spring from the same source. 
At least three different vitamines are known to exist 
and they are all necessary to maintain life. There is 
what is known as a fat-soluble vitamine and two 
water-soluble vitamines. These have not yet been 
given definite names because so little is known about 
them; so until they are christened they will probably 
be known as fat-soluble A, water-soluble B, and water- 
soluble C. 

The fat-soluble vitamine is found most plentifully 
in butter fat. Cod-liver oil and fish oils generally, con- 
tain smaller amounts, and it is also present in spin- 
ach, carrots, cabbage, turnips, bannanas, peas, yellow 
com, egg yolk, and green leaves. It seems that nearly 
all the foods containing this vitamine have some yel- 
low coloring matter, but it must not be assumed that 
the more yellow the food is the more of this vitamine 
it contains, for experiments have proved that such is 
not the case. Rats that were fed butter to supply this 



18 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

vitamine thrived well, while those that were fed lard 
fared poorly and some died. 

Man, like the animals, seems to know by instinct 
the foods that are good for him. The rich butter with 
a natural yellow color was always most highly prized, 
and now it is fairly well established that this same 
butter is the richest source we know to supply the fat- 
soluble vitamine. Butter is usually a natural yellow in 
the spring and early summer when the cow eats plenty 
of new grass. So great has been the demand for yel- 
low butter that artificial coloring is now the common 
practise. 

Butter substitutes made from vegetable oils contain 
little or none of this vitamine. In the war-stricken 
countries of Europe where many children were de- 
prived of butter fat and other foods containing the 
vitamine, eye disease was quite common. Cod-liver 
oil was fed to many of those children with good re- 
sults. 

Water-soluble B is the vitamine that is necessary 
for the growth of yeast. It is found in legumes, spin- 
ach, carrots, potatoes, onions, turnips, and in the germs 
of cereals, as well as a number of other foods arid most 
plentiful in yeast. There is little or none of this vita- 
mine in white flour, polished (white) rice, and partly 
cooked cereals. Whole wheat flour, brown or cured 
rice, and the old-fashioned oatmeal and corn meal are 
best when they can be obtained clean and fresh. There 
is reasonable ground to believe that the absense of 
this vitamine is responsible for certain inactivities of 
the generatve organs. For instance, it is said that 
experiments with rats have shown that no young can 



MISCELLANEOUS REMARKS 19 

be produced where the male is fed a diet lacking the 
vitamine. 

Water-soluble C is supposed to be the vitamine that 
prevents such disease as scurvy. Almost every 
mother knows that when an infant is fed pasteurized 
milk, orange juice is also given if it is at all possible 
to obtain it. This orange juice is given to replace the 
vitamines that had been killed in the milk when it was 
pasteurized. Army authorities have discovered that 
dried beans do not prevent scurvy, but that the same 
beans when sprouted contain the vitamine that is 
necessary to prevent this disease. 

That blue depressed feeling that we sometimes have 
and cannot account for may mean that our systems are 
lacking a necessary supply of the needed vitamines. 
Loosening of the teeth or soreness or hemorrhage of 
the gums may indicate scurvy. Water-soluble C vita- 
mine is present in largest amounts in fresh fruits and 
green vegetables, and in smaller amounts in fresh 
meat and fresh milk. Orange juice is generally recog- 
nized as one of our best preventatives of scurvy, but 
raw cabbage is said to be even better. Vitamines are 
killed or lessened by heat, especially the high temper- 
ature of heat used in canning processes. Canned to- 
matoes, however, seem to be an exception as canned 
tomato juice has been used to prevent scurvy in infants. 

While we have been trying to kill the deadly bac- 
teria with heat, we discovered that we were also kill- 
ing the vitamines that we cannot live without. Com- 
mon sense is always a safe guide. Procure food as 
fresh as possible and include with the diet some 
natural raw food such as eggs, butter, milk, fruits. 



20 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

raw cabbage in salads, etc., tomatoes, carrots, onions. 
Eat whole wheat bread and demand a clean supply 
of the old-fashioned oatmeal and corn meal. Also de- 
mand the brown or cured rice. And you may rest as- 
sured that you would not live many years on a diet 
composed of the following foods: Canned meats, 
canned vegetables, except tomatoes, condensed milk, 
white bread, nut butter, no fresh fruits and no fresh 
vegetables. Army authorities discovered that sol- 
diers soon developed scurvy on such a diet. 

However, these remarks must not be construed as 
a general condemnation of canned goods. The writer 
only wishes to impress upon the housewife that canned 
goods are lacking in vitamines, and that this lack must 
be made up with other foods, especially fresh fruits and 
green vegetables. We all know that a raw egg is 
better than a cooked one, although the food value is 
apparently the same, so it must be that the heat kills 
at least some of the vitamines of the egg. It pays to 
give your children the best dairy butter, even at 75 
cents a pound. 

HOW TO REDUCE WEIGHT 

There is only one way by which the body can ac- 
cumulate excess fat, and that is by eating more fat- 
forming foods than is necessary for the body's needs. 
Such foods include the fats, starches, and sugars, so 
to reduce weight a person must eat less of those foods 
and exercise more. IN NO OTHER WAY CAN 
FAT BE REDUCED. The person who is exception- 
ally fat should be examined by his or her physician at 
regular periods while reducing. 



MISCELLANEOUS REMARKS 21 

It is not wise to adopt any radical change of diet 
suddenly. A gradual and systematic reduction of 
food will usually bring the desired results without 
causing any ill effects. Consult the table of food 
values on page 156. Foods with a high fuel value, or 
with the largest number of calories per ounce are, as 
a rule, fat producers. As this table shows the approxi- 
mately total calories, per ounce instead of per pound, 
it is especially useful to persons who wish to regulate 
their diet. 

One of the first things needed is a small scale regis^ 
tering ounces. Then all the food used should be 
weighed as carefully as possible and the calories fig- 
ured out according to this table. Do this for at least 
three or four days, or until you can strike an average 
of the total calories that you consume in a day. Then 
you can gradually reduct the average of your total 
calories, say about fifty per day. One of the best ways 
to do this is to increase the quantity of bulky foods 
such as fruits and vegetables. When weighing the 
foods, especially foods like sugar, butter and other 
fats that have a high fuel value, even a quarter of an 
ounce should be counted. 

The weight of the foods used can be jotted down 
and then the calories figured out at leisure. This, of 
course, is a Httle bother, but it is well worth while for 
anyone who is anxious to reduce. If one can get ac- 
customed to weighing the food and figuring out the 
calories, the process soon becomes very interesting. 

t *p •t 

A few bites of apple eaten after a meal will help to 
cleanse and preserve the teeth. 



CHAPTER II 
FOOD AND HEALTH 

"C^OOD concerns us more than anything else in life 
•*■ because it is our life. There was, no doubt, a time 
when man ate his food as he caught it. never thinking 
of saving any for the future ; then it gradually dawned 
on him that he might stow away or hide surplus food. 
This is the same idea that to-day is causing most of 
our troubles. We work, scheme, and scramble to ac- 
cumulate money, but somewhere in our brain there is 
a subconscious thought that we are providing shelter, 
clothing, but especially food for a future day. We 
plan, scheme, cheat, and steal from each other from 
the fear that some day we may have to go hungry. 
We have not yet realized that this earth produces 
much more food than we need, and that if every one 
did his share towards cultivating, producing, or manu- 
facturing this food, none of us would have to work 
more than a few hours a day. 

However, there is no prospect of our present gen- 
eration's changing its habits and customs overnight, 
so we must race along the same old line of hustle and 
scramble, and work, and save. To keep up in this pro- 
cession, we must be healthy, and to be healthy we 
must eat the right food properly prepared. 

A poor cook is the original "hard luck" of any home, 
for bad cooking upsets the digestion and causes no end 
of trouble. There are few, if any, of us who have not 
experienced some of the discomforts of indigestion. 

22 



FOOD AND HEALTH 23 

It makes us irritable and detracts from our ability 
generally. 

If we would avoid indigestion with its train of ills, 
we must eat the right amount of the food that our sys- 
tems require. We must eat at regular times and we 
must avoid overeating or eating a heavy meal while 
we are unduly excited or worried or tired physically 
or mentally. We must know w^hat our food contains 
so that we may combine the proper elements. 

In olden times people ate the food that grew near 
them because there were no ships or railroads. They 
became accustomed to the right diet and knew it al- 
most by instinct. To-day we drink tea and eat rice 
that was grown in China and Japan, while the Chinese 
and Japanese eat wheat flour grown in America. We 
get so many new foods to-day that the average house- 
wife has no idea of their actual food value. 

First of all, the body should be in the proper mood 
to receive food. When the mind is unusually active 
from study or hard thinking of any kind, there is a 
smaller supply of blood in the stomach than is re- 
quired for digestive purposes. So, for the brain- 
worker a little light exercise before eating will help 
to restore a normal circulation and get the mind off 
an absorbing subject. In conditions where something 
imusual, such as worry, fear, anger has such a grip 
on the mind that it cannot be easily shaken off, only 
something light and easily digested should be eaten. 
The person who is very tired from using the muscles 
should rest, if only for a few minutes, before eating. 

Getting up at the last minute in the morning, gulp- 
ing down a cup of coffee and a few bites of toast, then 



24 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

rushing off to catch a car, with the mind in a state of 
nervous excitement all the way to the office lest you 
be late, will wear down any nervous system. 

Health is our first and chief asset. The healthier 
we are the further we are from the grave, barring ac- 
cidents. Sickness brings us closer to death, brings us 
misery, pain, expense, and unhappiness generally. 

Every day thousands of children, and men and 
women in the prime of life, drop off because they 
were not properly fed. They ate too much or not 
enough, or they did not eat the right kind of food. 

A housewife may buy the proper amount of the right 
food, but in preparing it she may waste certain por- 
tions that the body must have. The waste may not 
be noticed at all. Very often it is the salts or ash, 
and sometimes protein, which is lost. 

Each little part of the body must have its own cer- 
tain food to do its proper work. For instance, the 
white corpuscles of the blood, which are germ de- 
stroyers, kill and throw off the foreign disease germs 
that enter the system. Now it stands to reason that 
if these corpuscles are weak, poorly nourished, they 
become fewer, and the disease germs will fifid it much 
easier to attack the body. The blood must have iron 
and other mineral matter and the best way to get it 
is in the food that we eat. 

The simplest food is usually the best, especially if 
so cooked as to retain the greatest amount of its 
natural flavor ; but it must be remembered that differ- 
ent individuals have different tastes for foods, and 
certain foods agree best with certain individuals. Raw 
eggs and milk are an excellent food for run-down sys- 



FOOD AND HEALTH 25 

terns, but they may disagree with some people, so in 
that case a different way of preparing them should 
be tried. An improperly balanced diet means poor 
health, and doctors' bills and misery generally. 

The food of children, as well as that of the boy or 
girl between twelve and twenty-one, should be given 
special attention to insure a good foundation for 
health. Anemia, constipation, stomach trouble, liver 
and kidney trouble, as well as a host of other ills, are 
usually caused directly by improper eating and drink- 
ing; any one in poor health is always more exposed 
to contagious diseases. 

First of all, proper food for a healthy child will build 
a healthy body. The right food for the adult will head 
off disease. The tubercular germ finds it almost im- 
possible to get a start in a healthy body properly 
nourished with the right food. Even cancer, another 
of our most dreaded diseases, may possibly be caused 
directly by improper eating. The cause of this dis- 
ease is not known, and medical science has no evi- 
dence that it is contagious. The old theory that it is 
hereditary also is dying out. The belief is now quite 
general that almost all forms of cancer start from an 
irritation of some kind. Cancer of the stomach is 
very often preceded by chronic indigestion, which is 
in almost every case the result of wrong eating. 

If cancer is attended to in time, there is a good 
chance of effecting a cure by surgical operation. If 
neglected till certain stages, it almost always proves 
fatal. In its earlier stages it produces no pain, and for 
that reason is very apt to be passed off lightly. Any 
lump or sore which remains for weeks and does not 



26 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

heal should be treated by a physician. Slight diges- 
tive disturbances should never be allowed to become 
chronic. Women should give immediate attention to 
any lump of the breast or to any unusual condition of 
the female organs or functions. 



Pay your physician to keep you well. Don't wait till 
you get sick. 

t^ ^ n 

If you are too fat, work more and eat less. 

Food that disagrees with you is bad for you. 

Don't let refuse clog your system. Keep the waste 
channels open. . 



CHAPTER III 

FOOD FOR CHILDREN 
Written by a Child Specialist 

In this article on "Food for Children" I am going 
to deal principally with "Food for Infants," because 
it is in the infant stages of a child's life that we have 
the greatest difficulty in combating the heavy death 
rate. There are three periods, known to the physician 
as the prenatal period, the natal period, and the post- 
natal period. 

BEFORE BIRTH 

In the prenatal stage, or the period from conception 
until birth, our attention must natuarlly be focused 
on the mother, who now has to play a double role, in 
that her organs must function for two. It follows, 
therefore, that the pregnant woman should understand 
that it is necessary for her to conserve her organs as 
much as possible, so that both she and the child may 
be better able to withstand the critical period of birth, 
and to start a good foundation for health. Diet, exer- 
cise, and dress are three things that should receive 
especial attention from the expectant mother. 

OVEREATING 

Usually the appetite of a pregnant woman is keen, 
and she is more apt to overeat than to eat too little. 

27 



28 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

Then again some women have the idea that because 
of the child they must eat more, or eat all they can. 
Science has proved that the normal man or woman 
eats more than is necessary, and the excess is thrown 
off as refuse by the eliminating organs, especially the 
bowels and kidneys. The nutrition organs of a preg- 
nant woman function more keenly than those of a non- 
pregnant woman, with the result that her system will 
often assimilate food that another system might throw 
off as waste. In other words, food that is often wasted 
in the non-pregnant woman can be utilized by the 
pregnant woman in the growth of the foetal child. 

On the other hand, overeating throws an extra 
burden on the eliminating organs, especially the kid- 
ney, which is the chief organ of elimination. It must 
be remembered that the kidney already has an extra 
burden in eliminating the waste from the growing 
child, in addition to its regular work, and so it is very 
wrong to burden it with still more work by eating 
more food than is necessary. The kidney has very 
highly specialized cells which are extremely suscep- 
tible to irritating end products. Chief among those 
offenders are the proteids, of which meat is the lead- 
ing exponent. Any excess of protein foods should be 
carefully avoided. Meat should be eaten sparingly 
especially in the latter months when the kidneys have 
their hardest work. 

When a woman has difficulty to restrain her appe- 
tite, and finds she is taking on weight rapidly, she 
should resort to foods that fill up but have a low food 
value. For instance, skim milk or buttermilk could be 
used, and a larger proportion of fruits and vegetables 



FOOD FOR CHILDREN 29 

could be eaten. When the woman's body is taking 
on fat, especially in the latter months, the child is 
also accumulating unnecessary fat, which only in- 
creases the strain on both mother and child, in labor. 
However, these remarks on overeating must not ob- 
scure the fact that there is also the other extreme, 
namely, lack of proper nourishment, 

EXERCISE 

In normal cases there is no better exercise for the 
expectant mother than ordinary housework. A daily 
walk is also good, depending, of course, upon the 
amount of housework or other exercise which she gets. 
This exercise stimulates circulation and helps to keep 
the body in condition generally. It also relieves the 
kidneys by eliminating some of the waste products 
through the sweat glands of the skin. It promotes 
oxidation, and so causes the lungs to throw off more 
waste material. If the muscles of the abdomen are 
not exercised they become weakened, and this will 
delay labor pains, thereby causing more pain and 
worry; but violent exercise producing fatigue should 
be avoided. 

CLOTHING 

Clothing should be loose-fitting and comfortable, 
not too heavy, and under no circumstances should 
tight-fitting corsets be worn. 

The psychological, or mental, attitude of the woman 
may have much influence on her own health and that 



30 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

of her child as well. Sudden shocks, fear, fits of anger, 
or worry, at least leave no good results, if they do no 
harm. Pleasant, cheery thoughts and freedom, from 
fear or worry are wonderful assets for every pregnant 
woman. Proper food, regular habits, and exercise will 
go a long way towards helping her to secure and re- 
tain those assets. 

Every wise woman will consult her physician at 
least once a month during pregnancy, oftener in the 
latter months. He can give general advice concerning 
the many nervous symptoms which may, or may not, 
arise. He examines the kidneys, examines the position 
of the child, takes measurements of the mother and 
watches for any untoward developments. If those 
things have been carefully attended to during preg- 
nancy, the birth of the child can be made much easier 
and safer for both. 

The expectant mother, especially for the first time, 
should remember that childbirth is a natural function, 
and that there is no great danger to be feared from it, 
if the laws of nature have been observed. The pain 
accompanying childbirth is nature's, and nature lias 
a sound reason for everything she does. Many re- 
ligious women consider their labor pains as a purify- 
ing agency to render them more fit for the lofty sphere 
of motherhood. When the physician finds a woman 
with this belief firmly rooted in her mind, he knows 
that, at least, the case will not be aggravated by a 
nervous fear. 

^ ^ •£ 

Avoid an excess of sugar in your child's diet. 



FOOD FOR CHILDREN 31 

EYE TREATMENT 

The usual care of the child after birth should always 
include the treatment of the eyes with a few drops of 
ten per cent solution of argyrol. It can be put into the 
eyes with a dropper. This treatment may prevent 
possible blindness or defective sight, which is very apt 
to follow imsuspected venereal disease. 

CARE OF THE CHILD 

For the first twelve to twenty-four hours (depend- 
ing upon circumstances) after birth, the mother should 
not be disturbed to nurse the baby. After this and 
until the third day, when the milk usually appears, the 
child should be nursed only every four hours, and after 
the third day every two or three hours depending upon 
the condition of the child and mother. 

It is highly important to the health of the child that 
the mother should keep in good health. After the 
ordinary confinement she will probably be able to 
move around about the twelfth day, but she should 
do very little work and little standing for six weeks 
as it takes about that time for the womb to return to 
its normal size. It is much better to be extremely 
careful at this period than to take any chances of hav- 
ing serious complications later. 

Every baby should be nursed by its mother except 
in cases where the mother has some constitutional 
disease, such as advanced tuberculosis, syphilis, etc., 
or when certain other circumstances may exist render- 
ing it not advisable. In any case of doubt let the 
physician decide. 



32 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

HOW TO STIMULATE A FLOW OF MILK 

If no nourishment can be had from the mother's 
breast at the end of twenty-four hours, the baby 
should receive some artificial food prescribed by the 
physician. But, nevertheless, the child should be al- 
lowed to go to the breast for five or ten minutes every 
two hours even though no milk is coming. The suck- 
ing of the baby's lips will often stimulate the breast 
and promote a flow of milk where nipple shields and 
breast pumps have failed. 

In obstinate cases and when circumstances permit, 
it is well to allow two or three babies to go to the 
breast so that it can receive stimulation every hour. 
This can be done in hospitals or where it is possible to 
borrow a neighbor's baby. There are authentic cases 
on record of wet nurses who have had barely enough 
milk for one baby at the start, but later were able to 
feed ten or twelve infants with their milk. 

MOTHER'S FOOD 

The nursing mother should receive plenty of nour- 
ishing food, especially of the "liquid" kind, such as 
milk, eggs, mushy foods, etc., but she should eat at 
regular periods and she should particularly avoid 
overloading her stomach, especially with rich foods. 
Any digestive disturbances will quickly affect her milk 
supply and react on the child. Plain foods are the best 
and an excess of meats and sweets should be avoided. 
She should take very little tea or coffee, and abso- 
lutely no beer or alcoholic beverage. If her condition 
is normal she should not take on any noticeable 



FOOD FOR CHILDREN 33 

amount of fat, nor, on the other hand, should she lose 
any. She should be particularly careful not to become 
very tired or unduly excited. She needs plenty of 
sleep and rest regularly every day. 

The milk supply is quickly affected by any mental 
or nervous disturbance, so the nursing mother should 
avoid worry or anger, and take daily outdoor exer- 
cise. Neither she nor the baby can get too much 
fresh air. 

ARTIFICIAL FEEDING 

There are a few cases where the mother's breast has 
not enough gland tissue to provide sufficient milk. 
Then of course the difference must be made up with 
the most efficient substitute, cow's milk modified. But 
so long as there is any milk at all in the breasts, the 
child should get it, as it will aid the digestion of the 
artificial food needed to make up the deficiency. 

The mother or nurse should remember that no two 
babies are alike, and that artificial food should be pre- 
scribed by the physician to suit the individual case. 
The indiscriminate use of "patent baby food" cannot 
be too strongly condemned. There are certain cases 
where the physician may prescribe some of those 
foods for a short time, but under no circumstances 
should they be used without his advice. 

SCURVY 

There are three diseases that the artificially-fed 
child must be particularly guarded against. These 
are: Diarrhoea, rickets and scurvy. The latter rarely 



34 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

occurs if boiled milk has not been used and if the 
juice of orange be given regularly. 

RICKETS 

Rickets is a disease of nutrition and affects nearly 
every system of the body. The three essentials of a 
child's food are fats, sugar, and proteids. These are 
present in the right proportion in the mother's milk. 
But it is very hard always to get the right proportion 
in artificial food, or to have the child assimilate the 
right proportions after they are ingested. A lack of 
certain essential food elements leads to rickets, which 
is usually apparent in bone and nervous conditions. 
Enlarged joints, bow legs, deficient or small bones, 
convulsions, and slow teething are some of its many 
symptoms. It occurs chiefly in artificially-fed babies 
and is a disease requiring skilled medical treatment to 
combat. 

DIARRHOEA 

Diarrhoea is perhaps the child's greatest enemy, 
especially in summer, and is responsible for a very 
large percentage of the high infant mortality rate. Its 
causes can nearly always be traced to infected milk, 
and it rarely occurs in the breast-fed baby if the 
mother keeps in a healthy condition. Therefore, 
mother's milk or a pure milk supply is its greatest 
antidote. 

MILK SUPPLY 
To obtain this pure milk supply, scrupulous clean- 



FOOD FOR CHILDREN 35 

liness is necessary from the time of milking to the 
drinking of the milk by the child. As heat is the chief 
agency that promotes the growth of germs in the milk, 
it is essential that the latter be subjected to a cooling 
temperature immediately after coming from the cow, 
and kept at a low temperature until used. This pre- 
caution is especially necessary in summer. Many 
dairy farms, especially the larger farms, are extremely 
careful in the handling of their milk. Perhaps the 
most important factor in the handling of milk is 
"time." Every minute of time allows the germs to 
propagate at an alarming rate, so every effort should 
be made to get the milk as new as possible. This, of 
course, is a problem that confronts all city authorities, 
especially of the larger cities. Milk for children sold 
in cities should in all cases bear the time of milking — 
the date and hour. 

One of the best methods of handling milk that I 
have heard of was a double-strainer milking pail, set 
inside a larger pail and packed around with ice. The 
double strainer at the small opening on top prevented 
dust and other foreign matter from falling into the 
pail. The ice packing cooled the temperature of the 
milk before the germs had a chance to grow. Milk 
handled in this way, from perfectly healthy cows, and 
brought immediately to the consumer, is as pure as it 
is possible to get it, and is worth many times the price 
of ordinary milk. Many thousands of tiny lives would 
be saved if all milk used by children was handled in 
this way. 

However, the larger cities have not yet satisfactor- 
ily solved the problem of getting fresh millj to the 



36 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

consumer quickly, so pasteurizing is resorted to. This 
means the heating of the milk to a temperature of 
about 145 degrees Fahrenheit and keeping it at this 
temperature for half an hour. This heating kills many 
of the germs, but not all. It also destroys something 
in the milk which the child needs for growth. What 
this something is we have not yet been able to learn. 
Scientists give it the name of "vitamines," and there 
is every evidence that they are needed for the building 
up of the body. Pasteurized milk should never be 
used where it is possible to obtain clean, pure, fresh 
milk from healthy cows. 

The normal child will require nothing but breast 
or cow's milk up to ten or eleven months, except 
orange juice and dilutions of barley food or oatmeal. 
When cow's milk is used, it should be about one part 
milk in two parts water the first month. This should 
gradually be strengthened till at nine or ten months 
the child is taking pure milk. Gruels, cereals, mushes, 
crusts of bread, beef juice, soups, or almost any other 
foods of this nature may be included with milk as the 
child approaches one year. 

As I have already stated, no set rule of artificial 
food will apply to all babies. In the first place the 
constituents of cow's milk vary greatly, especially in 
the percentage of fats. Then again this percentage 
of fat may be still further changed by the milk stand- 
ing, so that the baby may get too much or not enough 
fat, either of which may soon undermine its health 
and perhaps prove fatal. 

In cities only bottled milk of a known standard qual- 
ity should be used. If the bottle has stood for some 



FOOD FOR CHILDREN 37 

time in the ice box it should be gently shaken to mix 
the cream through, so that baby will not get cream for 
one meal and skim milk for another. The digestive 
organs of an infant are so sensitive that a very slight 
change in food may put them out of order. Some- 
times it is a very difficult matter to correct digestive 
disturbances, especially if they have been neglected 
for a time. 

REGULARITY 

Regularity is very important in the development of 
a child. The baby should have regular hours for 
meals, for sleep, and for exercise. It is not wise, except 
in special cases, to feed a child oftener than every three 
hours in the day and once at night, or seven times in 
the twenty-four hours. As the child grows older, the 
time of feeding can be gradually reduced till at one 
year it is five times in the twenty-four hours or four 
times in the day and once at night. 

INDIGESTION 

Indigestion is a factor that must be reckoned with 
in the breast-fed as well as the bottle baby. Mothers 
with an abundant flow of milk are apt to overfeed the 
baby and disturb its digestion. However, nature has 
also reckoned with this feature and allows most babies 
to readily throw up an excess of food. The physician 
alone can best judge the amount of food that keeps the 
child in a healthy growing condition. Roughly, a 
child needs about one and a quarter ounces of milk 
for every pound of its body's weight in twenty-four 



38 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

hours. A baby weighing ten pounds would require 
about twelve to fourteen ounces of milk in twenty- 
four hours. 

SLEEP 

The normal baby will sleep eighteen to twenty hours 
immediately after birth. The time of sleep gradually 
lessens till at one to two years old it sleeps twelve to 
fourteen hours out of the twenty-four. He will sleep 
easily and regularly, and will exercise himself by kick- 
ing, turning, and moving his arms, then crawling and 
standing as his strength increases, and finally walking 
at about one year. Teething begins at about six 
months. If a baby's weight decreases or remains sta- 
tionary for two or three weeks after the first week, 
there is something wrong either with the baby or with 
his diet. The average baby weighs about seven 
pounds at birth. Usually, double that at six months 
and treble, or twenty-one pounds, at one year. It is 
advisable to have the baby weighed at regular inter- 
vals. 

The observant mother will immediately notice any 
unfavorable change in her baby which may denote ill 
health. A certain amount of crying is good to develop 
the lungs, but too much indicates that there is some- 
thing wrong. Babies cry because they have pain, be- 
cause they are uncomfortable ; they cry when hungry, 
or sick, and if not trained in regularity they may get 
a habit of crying which may worry the mother as to 
the cause. 



FOOD FOR CHILDREN 39 

WEANING 

Breast-fed babies should be weaned gradually, but 
never in hot weather unless some special circum- 
stances demand it. The best way is to start when 
the baby is about nine months old and increase the 
amount of cow's milk very gradually. Also lengthen 
the time between breast feedings gradually. Weaning 
should cover a period of two to three months, and if 
done systematically and gradually, the child will ex- 
perience no ill effects, and the breasts will dry up 
naturally without causing any breast complications. 

Even after a healthy child passes one year, his diet 
should still receive very careful attention. All grow- 
ing children should receive a generous allowance of 
milk. After the child begins to walk, a soft-boiled egg 
may be given occasionally. At first it is best to try 
only the white of the egg. From eighteen months to 
two years the child may get one soft-boiled egg every 
other day. Little or no meat should be fed until the 
child is seven or eight years old. 

First of all the mother should have good health to 
insure health in her child, and she should be able to 
nurse her child. Even the girl in her teens can start 
preparing for motherhood by being careful of her own 
health. The surest way to do this is to live the simple 
life, eat plain wholesome food at regular meal hours, 
have regular hours for sleep, and get some outdoor 
exercise regularly. The strenuous, irregular city life 
is responsible for many of woman's difficulties. 

The growing tendency for women to take part in all 
kinds of work is exacting its price, and whether it 



40 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

pays women to pay this price is very doubtful. It 
seems as if nature intended that woman should 
bear her children in the earlier part of her life, but not 
before her body's growth reaches maturity, and that 
she should do her heavier brain work in her maturer 
years. Nature has planted within every normal 
woman a longing desire to be a mother, and until this 
desire is fulfilled no woman experiences complete con- 
tentment. 



CHAPTER IV 

PRINCIPLES AND ELEMENTS OF FOOD 

'T^HE high cost of living is teaching us to pay more 
■■■ attention to the nutritive value of food and to 
waste. 

There is many a dollar's worth of waste in almost 
every kitchen, caused by wrong methods of cooking. 
For example, if potatoes are peeled, then boiled, and 
the water in which they are cooked is thrown away, 
almost one-third of the nutriment is wasted. It is 
safe to say that out of every dollar spent for pota- 
toes in the average city home, at least twenty cents' 
worth is wasted. This is a direct loss. There is no 
way to estimate the indirect loss, because much of 
the waste is in the form of alkaline salts, which the 
body often needs urgently to head off sickness or 
disease. 

Chemists tell us that our bodies are made of oxy- 
gen, hydrogen, carbon, nitrogen, sulphur, phosphor- 
ous, chlorin, sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium, 
iron, copper, fluorin, silicon, manganese ; and no doubt, 
soon, some "long-whiskered wise guy" will discover 
something else in us. Anyhow, these are the things 
we must feed to the body if we want the soul to 
"stick around." We keep feeding them in and the 
body keeps throwing them out. 

Those are the same elements that our foods must 
contain in the proper proportions. If we feed too 

41 



42 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

much or not enough of any one of them, we are bound 
to have a doctor's bill sooner or later. 

To simplify matters, the elements of our foods are 
bunched into five compounds known as water, pro- 
tein, carbohydrates, fats, and ash. Proteins contain 
at least seventeen different elements, and are of first 
importance in food principles because they build up 
the tissues of our bodies which are constantly wearing 
away. We have animal proteins represented in the 
albumen (white) of egg, the muscle fibre (the lean) 
of meat, and the curd of milk, or cheese. The sticky, 
stringy mass of wheat flour left after the starch is 
washed out is typical of vegetable proteins. 

Carbohydrates are largely starches and sugars, and 
serve as fuel for energy. Every movement of the body, 
even the lifting of a finger or an eyelid, requires en- 
ergy which must be supplied by heat. The heat from 
coal is converted into energy which we use in a 
variety of ways. The carbohydrates in our food are 
burnt up and supply much of the heat that our bodies 
require for energy. 

Fats are represented in butter, olive oil, lard, etc., 
and are also burnt up for fuel. 

When we burn any substance, there is always the 
ash or mineral matter left. The ash that is left when 
the food is burnt up in our bodies is so important 
that we could not live without it. Our blood must 
have iron, and our bones are made largely from phos- 
phate of lime. 

The living body is one of the most delicate and 
finely constructed chemical laboratories in nature, and 
it always insists on doing its own work. If we try to 



FOOD ELEMENTS 43 

feed it those elements separately, even in the right pro- 
portion, it will not have them. There are a few foods 
that contain all the elements of life, but there is prac- 
tically no single food that forms a perfect diet for 
the adult body. This is why we eat a variety of foods, 
and it is important to know the different elements 
that each food contains. 

There is an instrument called the calorimeter, which 
is used to measure the amount of heat or energy in 
food. A thermometer will show the degree, or in- 
tensity, of heat, which may be the same in a pint as 
in a quart of hot water. But the calorimeter would 
show that two pounds of sugar contained twice as 
much heat, or energy, as one pound. A calorie is a 
unit of measure in the same sense that ounces and 
inches are also units of measure, and it is the amount 
of heat necessary to raise one pound of water four 
degrees Fahrenheit, or the work necessary to lift one 
ton 1.53 feet. The calorific value of any substance 
is found by burning a given amount in the calori- 
meter, its delicate instruments determining the re- 
sulting heat. 

The average man not engaged at hard labor re- 
quires about 2500 to 3000 calories of energy daily. 
The average woman requires about 2000 to 2500. 
People who do hard muscular work, or people who 
live in cold climates, require much more than this, 
from 3000 to 6000 calories, and a large man requires 
more than a small man. 

Some foods of low fuel value are expensive, while 
some of high value are cheap. For instance, a pound 
of rolled oats yields about 1800 calories of energy 



44 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

and costs, say, eight cents, while a pound of codfish 
supplies about 215 calories and costs about twenty 
cents. In other words, ten cents' worth of cod at 
twenty cents a pound yields about 102 calories, while 
ten cents* worth of rolled oats at eight cents a pound 
yields about 2250 calories. On the other hand, some 
expensive foods are more economical than cheaper 
foods when their nutritive value is considered. One 
pound of very lean round steak yields about 540 calo- 
ries. One pound of good medium fat sirloin steak 
yields about 1100 calories. Considering the round at 
thirty cents a pound and the sirloin at forty-four 
cents, ten cents' worth of the round would yield about 
180 calories, while ten cents' worth of the sirloin would 
yield about 250 calories. So, from an energy point of 
view, it is evident that medium fat sirloin at forty-four 
cents a pound is far more economical than very lean 
round at thirty cents a pound. 

Of course, we must consider more than the energy 
content in reckoning the nutritive value of food. The 
mineral salts, or ash, are valuable, but they cannot 
be measured in terms of calories. In a mixed diet 
we usually get sufficient ash if we are supplied our 
required amount of energy and protein. The cook who 
has even a slight knowledge of the energy and pro- 
tein content of the food she handles can save many 
a dollar in food bills. 

Suppose a man should eat in a day half a pound of 
rice, a quarter of a pound of sugar, and a quarter of 
a pound of butter; he would get about 2600 calories 
of energy, which is sufficient for many men, but he 
would get less than half an ounce of protein, most 



FOOD ELEMENTS 45 

of it in the rice, and very little ash. 

The daily requirements of protein for the average 
person is placed at from one to three ounces. The 
body can bum up a certain amount of protein for 
energy, but it cannot use fats or carbohydrates in 
the place of protein, for they both lack nitrogen, which 
all proteins contain. Fats and carbohydrates are com- 
posed of the same chemical elements, so they may, 
to a certain extent, replace each other. 

All animal foods, such as meat, fish, eggs, butter, 
milk, contain large amounts of protein. In the vege- 
table kingdom, wheat, oats, barley, peas, beans, corn, 
nuts are all rich in protein, 



9^ Pfe w^ 

Would you buy from a butcher or grocer who didn't 
know what pounds or ounces meant, and never 
weighed what he sold you? Every cook should know 
what calories mean. 

•t n •? 



CHAPTER V 

FIRST WEEK 

LIVING ON nVa CENTS PER MEAL 

TOURING war time we were told to save and econo- 
■^ mize on food, and we were told it so often that 
it would be hard for any one to forget. At almost 
every turn we would see "save food" signs. 

Before the war we had been making a study of food 
values, but it was perhaps those "save food" signs 
that induced us to keep a record of not only our food 
expenses but of the actual food values as well. We 
bought our food as used at the retail stores and paid 
the regular retail prices. Every item of food that we 
used was carefully weighed, and the food values were 
figured out as accurately as possible. We reduced the 
waste to a minimum. 

Our first test was started on a Wednesday in the 
second week of January, 1918. The menus and re- 
sults shown for the first three periods apply to two 
people only — a man weighing 130 pounds, aged 32, 
employed as Insurance Agent, and his wife, aged 32, 
employed at her own housework. The dishes and 
cooking utensils that we used for the first three tests 
cost less than $10.00. 

If you don't eat right you will not work right. 

46 



LIVING ON 11^ CENTS A MEAL 47 

WEDNESDAY 
BREAKFAST 

Barley and Potato Hash 

(Left— overs) 

Raspberry Jam 

Baker's Buns; Bread and Butter 

Tea 

The quantities of each item of food, its cost, and 
the total number of calories in this breakfast were as 
follows : 

Calories Cost 

10 ozs. barley and potato hash (left-over) 175 .02 

8 ozs. (8) buns @ .12 a dozen 640 .08 

3 ozs. raspberry jam @ .19 a jar (small) .... 225 .037 

5^ ozs. condensed milk @ .18 a can (lb.) 47 .007 

y^ ozs. sugar @ .10 a lb 58 .003 

2 ozs. butter @ .48 per lb 450 .06 

Yi pint milk @ .11 per quart 165 .027 

Tea @ .45 per lb .002 

1,760 .236 

This breakfast for two cost about 23^ cents, and 
yielded about 1760 total calories. The barley and 
potato hash was made from some left-over stew. 

Note that 334 cents' worth of raspberry jam, at 
19 cents a small jar, yielded only about 225 calories, 
most of which was in the sugar it contained. 

HOW TO SAVE GAS OR COAL: 

The boiling point of water is about 212 degrees 
Fahrenheit. Once it starts to boil, it does not get any 
hotter; additional heat simply makes more steam. 
So as soon as the water boils, the gas may be turned 
down and the water kept just simmering at the boiling 
point, and the food will cook just as quickly as if the 
water were kept boiling rapidly. 



4« FOOD EFFICIENCY 

WEDNESDAY 
DINNER 

Beef Stew 
Bread Buns 

Cake 
Milk Cocoa 

Calories Cost 
Beef Stew contained: 

9% ozs. boiling beef @ .30 per lb 1 

1 oz. onions @ .04 per lb [ 663 .172 

10 ozs. potatoes @ .48 per peck J 

5 ozs. bread @ .08 per lb. loaf 380 .025 

1 oz. sugar @ .10 per lb 116 .006 

2 ozs. cake @ .16 per lb 200 .02 

IK ozs. butter @ .48 per lb 337 .045 

55^ ozs. (4) buns @ .12 per doz. 440 ,04 

J4 oz. cocoa @ .40 per lb 36 .006 

1 pint milk @ .11 a quart 325 .055 

2,497 .369 

The beef stew cost almost half as much as the 
whole dinner, but it yielded only one-quarter of the 
total calories. A meat diet is much more expensive 
than cereal foods, even when meat sells at the low 
price of 30 cents a pound. 

Stewing is one of the more economical ways of 
cooking meats or vegetables, as nothing is Jost. The 
meat should be cut into small pieces, placed on the 
stove with as small a quantity of cold water as pos- 
sible, and allowed to cook slowly, the vegetables being 
added at the proper time. 

Medium fat boiling beef would yield about 900 
total calories to the pound, and, comparing this with 
bread at ten cents a pound loaf, we find that ten 
cents' worth of meat will yield about 300 calories, 
while ten cents' worth of bread will yield more than 
four times that amount. 



LIVING ON nVz CENTS A MEAL 49 

The two meals for to-day cost about 60^ cents 
and yielded a total of about 4257 calories of energy. 
This is a little under the requirements of the average 
workingman's family. 

THURSDAY 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed Fruit 

Oatmeal with Milk 

Buttered Toast 

Coffee 

The cost and calorific value of each item of food 

was as follows: 

Calories Cost 

Fruit 523 .042 

6 ozs, bread 456 .03 

1 ozs. oatmeal 115 .005 

234 ozs. raspberry jam 205 .035 

lYz ozs. butter 337 .045 

lYz ozs. sugar 174 .009 

1 ozs. condensed milk 95 .012 

8 ozs. fresh milk 160 .027 

2,065 .205 

This breakfast cost slightly more than ten cents 
for each person, and yielded a total of about two 
thousand calories. The protein was undoubtedly be- 
low the average requirement, the oatmeal and milk 
containing about three-quarters of an ounce, while the 
other items of the meal contained very little. 

The fruit mentioned was dried peaches and prunes 
stewed together. They were left to soak for three 
hours, thoroughly rinsed, then cooked until tender. 
The sugar was added before the cooking was com- 
pleted. As a rule, fruits are laxative because they 
contain acids and salts and coarse fiber. 



so FOOD EFFICIENCY 

Prunes are dried plums. Usually plums with a 
large percentage of sugar are selected. In the process 
of manufacturing prunes, the plums are allowed to 
ripen fully on the trees. They are dipped for a minute 
or less in a boiling solution of lye to break the skins 
so that they will cure better. Sometimes a pricking 
machine is used for this purpose. After this they are 
thoroughly rinsed in clear water and either sundried 
or evaporated. In California most of the prunes are 
sun-dried from five to twelve days. If an evaporating 
machine is used, the process is completed in twelve to 
forty-eight hours. 

THURSDAY 
LUNCH 

Buttered Toast 
Cocoa made with Milk 

Calories Cost 

eVz ozs. bread @ .08 per lb. (loaf) 494 .032 

2 ozs. butter @ .48 per lb 450 .06 

V/z ozs. sugar @ .10 per lb 174 .009 

SYz ozs. milk @ .11 per qt 110 .02 

54 ozs. cocoa @ .36 per lb 73 .011 

1,301 .132 

This lunch was also low in protein, the "bread and 

milk supplying about three-quarters of an ounce of 

tissue-building material. The bulk of the meal was 

carbohydrates and fat. 

All sugars and fats are burnt up for energy, but 
they do not supply anything to the tissues of the 
body, as they contain no nitrogen. 

Sugar is a quick-acting food and is sometimes as- 
similated into the system in half an hour. If a per- 
son eats a little sugar while he-'is very tired physically, 



LIVING ON UK CENTS A MEAL 51 

he will notice its effects in a very short time. But it 
must be remembered that sugar is a one-sided food 
and does not add anything to the tissues or the bones. 
Sugar will produce fat, but fat is not tissue. It is 
simply stored-up energy. Too much sugar is almost 
sure to upset digestion, especially for people who do 
not get much exercise. People who do hard muscular 
work in cold weather can, as a rule, eat a good quan- 
tity of sweets without experiencing any ill effects. 

There are different kinds of sugars. Cane sugar 
is called surcose, and comes chiefly from the sugar 
cane, from beets, and from maple trees. Fruit sugar 
is called "levalose," milk sugar "lactose," malt sugar 
"maltose," and sugar of grapes or corn "glucose," 

THURSDAY 
DINNER 

Boston Baked Beans with Pork 

Baked Potatoes 

Bread and Butter 

Bread Pudding 

The separate items of this dinner were: 

Calories Cost 

8 ozs. lean pork @ .32 per lb 800 .16 

4 ozs. beans @ .16 per lb 400 .04 

4 ozs. potatoes @ .48 per pk 80 .007 

1 ozs. butter @ .48 per lb 225 .03 

8 ozs. milk @ .11 per qt 160 .028 

y-2. ozs. condensed milk @ .16 per lb 46 .005 

V/z ozs. sugar @.10 per lb 174 .009 

5 bread @ .08 a loaf 380 .025 

Bread pudding 594 .06 

2.859 .364 

The bread pudding was made with bread, milk, 

sugar, one egg, and raisins. This was a big meal for 



52 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

two small people and was reasonably cheap. Yes- 
terday the total calories were only 4257, while to-day 
the total was 6225. Yesterday was under our average, 
to-day was over. 

To-day's meals were also cheaper on a calorific 
basis. The dinner to-day made up for a shortage of 
protein in the other two meals. It contained about 
3 ounces. The pork contained about 7% protein, the 
beans 14%, and the egg 22%. Bread contains about 
6% protein. 

The pork at 32 cents a pound and the beans at 16 
cents a pound are somewhat similar in cost, reckoned 
on a nutritive basis. 

Most people seem to prefer beans baked with pork, 
but they may also be used with butter or oils. Our 
beans were first soaked for about three hours, then 
boiled till their skins began to crack, or almost an 
hour. Then they were put in an earthen crock with 
the pork sliced, a layer of pork, then a layer of beans, 
and about a tablespoonful of molasses. They were 
allowed to bake slowly for about four hours. Pork 
and beans are an excellent dish for the workingman 
in cold weather. They supply both energy and protein 
and are economical when compared with some other 
foods. 

•% ^ •? 

While you sleep, millions of little workmen are busy 
repairing the broken and wasted parts of your body. 
Food, water, and air are the materials they use to keep 
you in good condition. See that you supply them the 
right materials. 

•5 •p ^ 



LIVING ON llYz CENTS A MEAL 53 

FRIDAY 
BREAKFAST 

Sliced Oranges 

Whole Wheat with Milk 

Pancakes with Syrup 

Soft-Boiled Eggs 

Bread Butter 

Tea 

Calories Cost 

7 ozs. (1 large) orange 75 ,02 

1 ozs. whole wheat @ .08 per lb 105 .005 

3l4t ozs. pancake flour » 343 .02 

1 ozs. bread 76 .005 

1 ozs. syrup 65 .012 

9^ ozs. milk @ .11 per qt 190 .03 

114 ozs. sugar @ .10 per lb 174 .009 

}^ ozs. butter @ .48 per lb 112 .015 

2 ozs. eggs @ .48 per doz 200 .08 

Tea @ .48 per lb .005 

1,340 .201 

The whole wheat used in this breakfast cost 
eight cents a pound. The farmers would almost con- 
sider themselves millionaires if they got eight cents 
a pound ($4.80) a bushel for their wheat. But even 
at that price it is a very cheap food. In bread much 
of the salts of the wheat are lost in the bran, but in 
the whole wheat all of the bran is used, so very little 
salts are lost in the cooking, and even this little may 
be saved by using the water in which the wheat has 
been cooked, for making bread; or it may be used in 
soup or stew. The great objection to whole wheat 
is the long cooking it requires. It should be soaked 
from 6 to 12 hours and cooked slowly for about 8 
hours or until it becomes quite tender. It is very 
palatable and most people can soon acquire a liking 
for it. It is one of the best foods that can be eaten 
for people troubled with constipation. 



54 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

Calories 

10c. worth of whole wheat @ 8c. a lb. yields about.. 2,000 

10c. worth of eggs @ 48c. a doz. yields about 300 

10c. worth of milk @ lie. a qt. yields about 635 

10c. worth of pancake flour yields about 1,715 

10c. worth of butter @ 48c. a lb. yields about 750 

The whole wheat was by far the cheapest item of 
our breakfast, the pancakes being next in cheapness. 



FRIDAY 
LUNCH 

Corn Muffins 

with 

Butter and Syrup 

Raspberry Jam 

Cocoa 

Calories Cost 

8 corn muffins 945 .102 

% oz. cocoa 72 .011 

2 ozs. raspberry jam 150 .025 

lYi ozs. syrup 100 .015 

8 ozs. milk 160 .027 

M27 "jio 



It's lots of fun to live if you live right. 
You can't live right if you don't eat right. 

^ •t ^ 

Everything in nature is run by system. Use system 
in your eating. 



LIVING ON 11^ CENTS A MEAL 55 

FRIDAY 
DINNER 

Codfish Cakes 
Poached Egg with Noodles with Cheese 

Bread and Butter Milk 

The dinner itemized: 

Calories Cost 

2}/i ozs. codfish (boneless salt) 85 .045 

5J4 ozs. potatoes @ ,45 per pk 110 .017 

1 egg @ .45 per doz 100 .04 

2 ozs. noodles 208 .025 

\%, ozs. cheese @ .20 per lb 203 .019 

3 ozs. bread @ .08 per lb 228 .015 

10 ozs. milk @ .11 per qt 200 .033 

\Yi, ozs. butter @ .48 per lb 337 .045 

V/z ozs. sugar @ .10 per lb 174 .009 

Yz oz. condensed milk @ .18 can 47 .007 

coffee @ .21 per lb .005 

1,692 .260 

Fish, like meat, is rich in protein, also in phos- 
phorous compounds, which are necessary for the bones 
and tissues of the body. The percentage of protein 
in fish varies from 7% to 19%. Average fresh cod 
dressed yields about 215 calories to the pound as pur- 
chased. The cod used in this breakfast was boneless, 
salt, and yielded a little more than 500 calories to 
the pound. 

Cheese is a highly concentrated food, American 
cheese containing only about 28 7o of water. It con- 
tains 29% protein and 38% fat, so it may well take the 
place of some of the meat that we use. Its fuel value 
is about 2100 calories to the pound, and is very much 
more economical than meat at present prices. It should 
be well masticated, and should form part of a regular 
meal instead of being merely an addition to a big 
meal of meat and other foods. 



56 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

To-day we were guilty of eating four meals, for we 
had an evening lunch of Anolas and apples after we 
came from the movies, one apple and a box of Anolas 
(sugared wafers). The Anolas cost 12 cents and 
yielded only about 325 calories, so they are expensive 
and are not designed for an economical meal. 

The apple cost 2^/2 cents and yielded about 56 calo- 
ries, but perhaps its chief value was its malic acid, 
which is good for the liver and bowels. An apple at 
bedtime is usually good for a person with constipa- 
tion. 

To-day's meals cost 78^ cents and yielded about 
4840 calories. Note that yesterday we had more actual 
food value for less money. 

Calories Cost 

Breakfast 1,340 .201 

Lunch 1,427 .180 

Dinner 1,692 .260 

Evening Lunch 381 .145 

4,840 .786 

SATURDAY 

BREAKFAST 

Apple Sauce 

Corn Mush with Milk Bacon and Eggs 

Buttered Toast 

Coffee 

Calories Cost 

Apple Sauce 351 .06 

2%, ozs. bacon (med, fat) @ .55 per lb 437 .087 

2 ozs. eggs @ .48 per doz 200 .08 

45^ ozs. bread 342 .022 

2 ozs. sugar 232 .012 

8 ozs. milk (fresh) 160 .027 

-%, ozs. milk (cond.) 47 .006 

1 ozs. butter @ .48 per lb 225 .03 

2 ozs. whole corn 216 .01 

Coffee @ .21 per lb .01 

2,210 .344 



LIVING ON IV/i CENTS A MEAL 57 

Our com mush was made from whole com (very 
dry and hard), which we ground up with the food 
chopper. We had tried to eat it whole, like the wheat, 
but we could not get it tender. However, after we 
ground it up and cookd it thoroughly, it was edible, 
but, while wholesome and cheap, it would not be 
very palatable to the average person. 

"Bacon and eggs to steady your legs" is an old 
rhyme, but bacon at 55 cents a pound and eggs at 
50 to 60 cents a dozen make an expensive breakfast 
for the average workingman. 



SATURDAY 
DINNER 

Beef Stew 

Bread and Butter 

Sugar Cookies 

Cocoa 

The beef stew contained: 

Calories Cost 

12 ozs. boiling beef 600 .15 

3 ozs. barley 300 .017 

2% ozs. onions 32 .007 

9 ozs. potatoes 180 .02 

1,112 .194 

And the other items of the meal contained : 

Calories Cost 

1 oz. butter 225 ,03 

3 ozs, bread 228 .015 

4 ozs. milk 80 .015 

1 oz. sugar 116 .006 

1 oz. cocoa @ .36 a lb 145 .022 

2 ozs. sugared cakes 250 .03 

Totals for the dinner 2,156 .312 



58 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

We ate this dinner early in the afternoon, and later 
in the evening we had a lunch, two ounces of mixed 
nuts and an apple. The two ounces of nuts cost 5 
cents and yielded 376 calories ; the apple cost 2^^ cents 
and yielded 56 calories. The totals for the day were 
4798 calories and the cost 73 cents. 



Calories Cost 

Breakfast 2,210 .344 

Dinner 2,156 .312 

Lunch 432 .075 

4,798 .731 



Peanuts are a cheap and wholesome food. A pound 
of shelled peanuts yields from 2500 to 2700 calories 
of energy, and contains about four ounces of protein, 
which is more than the average person requires per 
day. Less than 10 per cent of the peanut is water 
and more than 38 per cent is fat. The protein of pea- 
nuts is especially rich in basic amino acids, and so 
to a certain extent resembles the proteins of meat, but 
is very much cheaper in price. Ten cents' worth of 
good sirloin steak at 40 cents a pound would yield 
about 275 calories. Ten cents' worth of shelled pea- 
nuts at 25 cents a pound would yield about 1000 calo- 
ries. Most nuts also contain a fair percentage of car- 
bohydrate, while meat has none. 



LIVING ON nVz CENTS A MEAL 59 

SUNDAY 
BREAKFAST 

Mixed Fruit with Nuts 

Whole Wheat with Milk 

Pork and Beans 

Bread and Butter 

Coffee 

Calories Cost 

Mixed fruit 520 .087 

2 ozs. whole wheat 210 .01 

4 ozs. beans 400 .042 

4% ozs. fat pork 900 .10 

13 ozs. milk (fresh) 260 .043 

1% ozs. sugar 174 .009 

% oz. milk (condensed) 47 .005 

J-4 oz. molasses @ .40 per qt 35 .003 

1 oz. butter 225 .03 

4 ozs. bread 304 .02 

Coffee @ .32 per lb .015 

3,075 .364 

The mixed fruit was made with 1 apple, 1 orange, 
1 ounce of raisins, 1 ounce of mixed nuts, and 1 ounce 
sugar. The apple and orange, sliced, were mixed with 
the raisins, nuts, and sugar, and left to stand over 
night. This made enough for three or four people, 
although two ate the above amount at one meal. 
Whipped cream added to this makes a tasty dish. 

This was an unusually large breakfast for two 
people. The cold weather had something to do with 
sharpening our appetites. 

^ •S ^ 

"Good nature" has a few close friends. One of them 
is "regular meal hours." 

tt It le 



60 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

SUNDAY 
DINNER 

Roast Pork 

with 

Baked Potatoes and Onions 

Bread 

Rice Pudding 

Cocoa 

Calories Cost 

8 ozs. pork, loin (med. fat) @ .32 per lb 800 .16 

16 ozs. potatoes (baked with pork) 

@ .04 per lb 320 .04 

4 ozs. onions @ .05 per lb 42 .012 

2 ozs. bread 152 .01 

Yz oz. sugar 58 ,003 

y2, oz. cocoa 72 .012 

12^ ozs, milk 250 .04 

Rice pudding 626 .087 

2,320 .364 

The rice pudding contained 2 ounces rice, 1 ounce 
raisinS; 1 ounce sugar, 1 egg, 6 ounces milk, and cost 
almost 9 cents. 

Our Sunday breakfast and dinner cost exactly the 
same, about 36^ cents, but the breakfast yielded 3075 
calories and the dinner only 2330. 

Usually we eat only two meals on Sundays and hol- 
idays, but we never save a meal by doing it, for we 
always eat as much in the two as we would in three 
or four. To-day's two meals cost 73 cents, same as 
Saturday's, but yielded more calories, 5395, (while 
yesterday's was only 4798. To-day's meals supplied 
plenty of protein in the whole wheat, milk, beans, 
nuts, meat, eggs, potatoes, rice, and bread. 

•5 ^ w^ 

Only a hateful, ungrateful dog growls over his food. 



LIVING ON 1154 CENTS A MEAL 61 

MONDAY 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed Fruit 

Oatmeal with Milk 

Hashed Pork and Potatoes 

(left-over) 

Bread and Butter 

Coffee 

Calories Cost 
Peaches and prunes (stewed 

together) 264 .027 

1 02. oatmeal @ .08 per lb 115 .005 

1 oz. sugar 116 -006 

9 ozs. milk @ .11 per qt 180 .03 

21^ ozs. bread 190 ,012 

4 ozs. hashed pork and potatoes 300 .17 

Coffee @ .32 per lb 1 .01 

1,175 .260 

Oatmeal is a very cheap and nutritious food. One 
pound yields about 1860 calories. It contains 7% of 
water, 16% protein, 7% fat, and 67^ carbohydrate, 
which is chiefly starch. 

If one wishes to live economically and at the same 
time healthily, oatmeal could form a large part of the 
diet, providing one can acquire a liking for it. 

There is a story told of an Englishman who was vis- 
iting a Scotchman, and upon being offered a bowl of 
oatmeal porridge for breakfast, the Englishman ex- 
claimed, ''My word, friend, I jolly well cawn't eat that 
bally stuff, you know, we don't eat oats in England, 
we feed it to our horses." To which the Scot replied 
thoughtfully, "And that same, mon, is why England 
has the best horses in the world, while Scotland has 
the best men in the world." 

If a man could live one day on a dollar's worth of 
cod, then he could live at least ten days on a dollar's 



62 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

worth of oatmeal, if they were both the same price. 
From a nutritive standpoint, if steak is worth 50 cents 
a pound, then oatmeal is worth $1.00 to $1.50 a pound. 



MONDAY 
LUNCH 

Left-over Pork and Potatoes 

Same as for breakfast 

Jam 

Buttered Toast 

Tea 

Calories Cost 

Pork and potatoes (hashed) 300 .15 

SYz ozs. bread 418 .027 

2 ozs. milk 40 .006 

I oz. butter 225 .03 

1 oz. jam 75 .012 

Tea @ .48 per lb .005 

1,058 .230 

Our roast of pork from Sunday lasted until to-day's 
lunch. Practically nothing is wasted. We use left- 
overs in hash, stews, soups, salads. 

Very often people pay no attention to juices of 
foods, or water in which foods are cooked. Valuable 
nutrients are often thrown into the sink, when they 
might be used in a variety of ways, and this loss is 
usually the salts or ash. Lack of the proper mineral 
food salts causes derangements of the system, leading 
to disease or ill health in some form. 

There's health in vegetables and fruits. There's 
wealth and health in growing your own. 

^ ^ ^ 



LIVING ON 11^/^ CENTS A MEAL 63 

MONDAY 
DINNER 

Split-pea Soup 

Boiled Beef 

Peanut-butter Bread Biscuits 

Cornstarch Pudding 

with 

Juice and Pulp of Orange 

Cocoa 

Calories Cost 

Split-pea soup 533 .057 

6 ozs. beef, chuck @ .22 per lb 300 .08 

3^ ozs. biscuits 300 .022 

Ay2 ozs. peanut-butter bread 428 .037 

4 ozs. whole milk 80 .014 

VA ozs. butter 337 .045 

Cornstarch pudding 248 .022 

6 ozs. (1) orange 65 .025 

1 oz. sugar 116 .006 

54 oz. cocoa 72 .007 

2,479 .315 

The split-pea soup was richer than soups usually 
are, a large plate of it yielding over 260 calories. This 
soup was made in the water in which the beef had 
been boiled, and there were added 4 ounces of split 
peas, 6 ounces potatoes, 1 onion. Soups are usually 
cheap — this pea soup yielding about 100 calories for 
one cent — and they can be made to save much valuable 
food that might otherwise be lost. 

Note that the cornstarch pudding was also very 
economical, as one cent's worth yielded more than 
100 calories. The pudding contained y^ ounce of corn- 
starch, 4 ounces of milk, and 1 ounce of sugar. 

The peanut-butter bread yielded more than 100 cal- 
ories for 1 cent, so was much cheaper than either the 
soup or the pudding. Here is the recipe for the bread; 



64 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

Calories Cost 
12 ozs. (3 cups) flour 1,200 .06 

1 02. (3 teaspoonfuls) baking powder .01 

(1 teaspoonful) salt 

4 ozs. (% cup) sugar 448 .025 

8 ozs. (K cup) peanut butter 1,400 .10 

(1) egg 100 .04 

8 ozs. (whole milk) 160 .025 

3,308 .260 

Flour, baking powder, and salt are sifted together. 
The sugar and peanut butter are added, then the egg, 
beaten, and the milk. 

This makes a large loaf. This bread is very rich in 
protein and fat, for peanut butter contains all the 
nutrients of the whole peanut. 

Peanut butter can easily be made at home by run- 
ning shelled roasted peanuts through the fine knife of 
the food chopper. Run twice to make fine enough. 
Nothing need be added except a little salt if pre- 
ferred. 

TUESDAY 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed Fruit (Peaches and Prunes) 
Corn Mush Buckwheat Cakes 

with 
Bacon Coffee 

Calories Cost 
Stewed fruit 264 .028 

2 ozs. corn meal @ .05 per lb 200 .007 

3% ozs. buckwheat (for pancakes) 343 .017 

2 ozs. bacon @ .42 per lb 340 .055 

8 ozs. milk @ .11 per qt 160 .027 

1 oz. sugar @ .10 per lb 116 .006 

14 oz. butter @ .56 per lb 112 .017 

2 ozs. maple syrup @ .22 a bottle 

(20 ounces) 160 .025 

5^ oz. crisco @ .32 per lb 100 .01 

Coffee @ .32 per lb .015 

1,795 .207 



LIVING ON IIH CENTS A MEAL 65 

TUESDAY 
LUNCH 

Cold Beef 

Peanut Butter Bread 

Biscuits Milk 

Coffee 

Calories Cost 

2 ozs. cold beef @ .32 per lb 100 .04 

8 ozs. milk @ .11 per qt 160 .022 

ZYz ozs. white bread @ .08 a lb. loaf 190 .012 

1 oz. nut butter @ .32 per lb 100 02 

^ oz. condensed milk @ .18 per can 47 .007 

45^ ozs. peanut butter bread 428 .037 

354 ozs. biscuits 300 .022 

Tea @ .48 per lb .005 

1,325 .165 

This meal was very cheap, considering that it con- 
tained more than the average requirements of protein, 
in the beef, peanut-buttr bread, white bread, and bia- 
cuits. 

Condensed milk is often said to be cheaper than 
fresh milk, but as a rule, manufactured edibles are 
more expensive than the raw product. The sugar in 
condensed milk gives it a higher fuel value per pound, 
but we must not forget that sugar contains no protein, 
although it is an excellent food. 

H yi ^ 

May happy blessings shower upon the clean cook. 

W^ •t ^ 

Untidiness is Satan's dishrag. 

^ t ^ 



66 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

TUESDAY 
DINNER 

Rice Soup 

Hooverized Pie 

Raisin Bread 

Cocoa Apple 

Calories Cost 
Rice soup (made mostly from left- 
overs) 150 01 

Hooverized pie 674 .062 

1 oz. sugar @ .10 per lb 116 .006 

54 oz. cocoa 72 ,007 

10 ozs. milk 200 033 

Yi oz. nut butter @ .32 per lb 100 .01 

lYi ozs. raisin bread (home made) 114 .007 

4 ozs. (1) apple 56 .02 

1,482 .155 
The Hooverized pie mentioned in the dinner was an 
economical and well-balanced dish. It was made of 
pork and cereals baked in a pie crust, made of half 
white flour and half corn meal. Here are the materials 
used and the recipe: 

For the Crust: 

Calories Cost 

3 ozs. (^ cup) white flour 300 .013 

3 ozs. (34 cup) corn meal 300 .011 

% oz. (25^ teaspoonfuls) baking powder ■ .007 

154 ozs. (21^ teaspoonfuls) nut butter 225 .025 

(Yz teaspoonful) salt 

54 cup water 

825 056 
For the Filling: 

1 oz. rice @ .10 per lb 100 006 

1 oz. barley @ .08 per lb 100 .005 

1 oz. beans @ .16 per lb 100 .001 

6 ozs. pork (med. fat) @ .32 per lb 1,050 .12 

6 ozs. potatoes @ .04 per lb 120 .015 

4 ozs. onion @ .04 per lb 02 .01 

1,472 366 



LIVING ON 115^ CENTS A MEAL 67 

The whole pie, crust and filling, cost about 22 cents 
and yielded a total of 2297 calories. The crust is mixed 
the same as any pie crust. The pork and cereals may 
be cooked together, and the potatoes, cut small, added 
when these are about half cooked. After the filling has 
been cooled and put in the crust in a deep pie pan, the 
onion, chopped fine, is spread over the filling. This is 
covered with the top crust and baked in a moderate 
hot oven 45 minutes, or until the crust is wpll browned. 
Serve hot. The water in which the meat and cereals 
are cooked may be used for making the crust, and 
part of it may be added to the filling. A larger pro- 
portion of pork or other meat may be used. 

Summing up for the week, by days, we have the 
following results : 

WEDNESDAY Calories Cost 

Breakfast 1,760 .236 

Dinner 2,497 .369 

4,257 .605 
THURSDAY 

Breakfast 2,065 .205 

Lunch 1.301 .132 

Dinner 2,859 .364 

6,225 .701 
FRIDAY 

Breakfast 1,340 .201 

Lunch 1,427 .180 

Dinner 1,692 .260 

Evening Lunch 381 ,145 

4,840 .786 
SATURDAY 

Breakfast 2,210 .344 

Dinner 2,156 .312 

Lunch 432 .075 

4,798 "jil 



68 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

SUNDAY 

Breakfast 3,075 .364 

Dinner 2,320 .364 

5,395 .728 
MONDAY 

Breakfast 1,175 .260 

Lunch 1,058 .230 

Dinner 2,479 .315 

4,712 .805 
TUESDAY 

Breakfast; 1,795 .207 

Lunch 1,325 .165 

Dinner 1,482 .155 

4,502 .527 

Calories Cost 

Wednesday 4,257 .605 

Thursday 6,225 .701 

Friday 4,840 .786 

Saturday 4,798 .731 

Sunday 5,395 .728 

Monday 4,712 .805 

Tuesday 4,502 .527 

34,729 $4,883 

Reckoning three meals a day for each person, or 
forty-two for the week for the two, the cost per meal 
was about 11 J/^ cents. The average calories per per- 
son per day were 2480. 

Monday was our highest day in cost — 80 cents— 
but only 4702 calories were supplied, while Thursday's 
meals v/ere second lowest in cost and yielded the 
largest amount of calories. There was a slight gain in 
weight for the man, the woman's weight remaining 
about the same. 



w 



CHAPTER VI 

SECOND WEEK 

Living on 10 Cents Per Meal 

E skipped Wednesday and started our second 
week's experiment on Thursday. 

THURSDAY 

BREAKFAST 

Apple Sauce 

Whole Wheat with Milk 

Bread and Butter 

with 

Jam and Syrup 

Coffee 

Calories Cost 

6 ozs. apple sauce 84 .04 

2 ozs. whole wheat @ .08 per lb 210 .01 

2 ozs. sugar @ .10 per lb 232 .012 

16^^ ozs. whole milk 325 .055 

54 oz. condensed milk 24 .002 

4 ozs. bread 304 .02 

Yi oz. nut butter 100 .01 

1 oz. jam 75 .012 

1 oz. syrup 80 .01 

Coffee @ .32 per lb .015 

1,434 .185 

THURSDAY 
LUNCH 

For one only 

Calories Cost 

2 ozs. bread 152 .01 

IJ^ ozs. peanut bread 142 .01 

54 oz. condensed milk 24 .002 

318 .022 

There's a black pill in sugars and sweets if you eat 
too much of them. 

69 



70 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

THURSDAY 
DINNER 

Boiled Pork 

with 

Carrots, Potatoes, Onions 

Raisin Bread 

with 

Syrup 

Tea 

Calories Cost 

8 ozs. pork (med. lean) @ ,40 per lb 800 .20 

4 ozs. carrots 40 .02 

6 ozs. potatoes 120 .015 

2 ozs. onions @ .04 per lb 26 .005 

165^ ozs. milk @ .11 per qt 325 .055 

8 ozs. raisin bread 622 .042 

2 ozs. sugar 232 .012 

1 ozs. syrup 80 .012 

Tea @. 48 per lb .005 

2,245 .366 



FRIDAY 
BREAKFAST 

Apple Sauce 

Oatmeal with Milk 

Buckwheat Cakes with Syrup 

1 Boiled Egg 

Raisin Bread with Nut Butter 

Coffee 

Calories Cost 

6 ozs. apple sauce 84 .025 

35^ ozs. prepared buckwheat flour 343 .017 

lYz ozs. syrup 120 .01 

1 oz. oatmeal 115 .005 

2 ozs. sugar 232 .012 

1 oz. nut butter 200 .02 

1 oz. raisin bread 76 .005 

11 ozs. whole milk 220 .037 

54 oz. condensed milk 24 .003 

1 oz. egg 100 .04 

Coffee @ .35 per lb .015 

1,514 Tl89 



LIVING ON 10 CENTS A MEAL 71 

FRIDAY 
LUNCH 

3 ozs. raisin bread 228 .015 

Yi oz. nut butter 100 .01 

54 oz. condensed milk 24 .002 

Coffee .005 

352 .032 

FRIDAY 

DINNER 

Pickled Herring — Boiled 

Boiled Potatoes 

Peanut Bread White Bread 

Coffee 

Candy 

Calories Cost 

16 ozs. pickled herring @ .20 per lb 365 .20 

13 ozs. potatoes @ .60 per pk. 260 .032 

8 ozs. whole milk 160 .027 

154 ozs. condensed "liik 119 .015 

ZVz ozs. nut butter @ .32 per lb 700 .07 

2%, ozs. bread (white) 190 .012 

4 ozs. peanut bread 392 *.032 

1 oz. lard 250 

4 ozs. chocolates 400 .10 

Coffee .01 

2,836 .498 

* The lard used in this dinner was taken from pork used 
in a previous meal and its cost has already been accoimted 
for. 

Herring at 20 cents a pound is not a cheap food, for 
there is about forty per cent waste. Fresh herring 
as purchased yields about 375 calories to the pound. 

Chocolates, even at 40 cents a pound, are an expen- 
sive food, 10 cents worth yielding about 400 calories, 
practically none of which are protein calories. 

EGGS are seldom to be had around New York at 
48 cents a dozen, but even at this cheap price, they 
are very expensive. In this work we reckon 100 calo- 



72 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

ties to an egg regardless of size, but this is more than 
is generally credited to the average egg. However, 
eggs, like milk, possess nutritives peculiarly adapted 
to the human system. The fact that an egg changes 
into a living chick proves that it contains all the ele- 
ments of life. Eggs contain almost the same per- 
centage of water as does the human body — 65%; 
they contain 13% protein and 9% fat. The yolk of the 
egg is about one-third fat, and the white is almost 
pure albumen. The yolk is rich in the most valuable 
food— salts, iron, sulphur, calcium, magnesium, and 
phosphorous. The white also contains some fat and 
phosphorous in smaller proportion. 

Some people find that eggs disagree with them, but 
this may be because too much other fat is eaten at 
the same meal, for it must be remembered that the 
yolk of the egg is almost one-third fat. This difficulty 
may be partly remedied by using only the whites, 
which contain little fat, or they may be well beaten 
and mixed with fruit juices which help to digest them. 
The juice of lemon, orange, or grape may be mixed 
with eggs for weak stomachs. Fresh eggs are always 
preferable in such cases, but the fuel value of older 
eggs is practically the same. 

One method of testing the freshness o£ eggs is to 
drop them into a brine solution made by mixing two 
ounces of sale (two heaping teaspoonfuls) with a pint 
of water. A fresh egg will immediately drop to the 
bottom. If the egg is three or four days old, the top 
of the shell will be even with the surface of the water, 
and an egg three weeks old will float almost above the 
surface. 



LIVING ON 10 CENTS A MEAL 73 

Reckoning average steak at 50 cents a pound and 
eggs at 50 cents a dozen, the eggs are more economical. 

SATURDAY 
BREAKFAST 

Apple Sauce 

Corn Mush with Milk 

Pork and Potato Hash 

Buttered Toast with Syrup 

Cake 

Coffee 

Calories Cost 

1% ozs. corn meal @ .08 per lb 155 .007 

6 ozs. apple sauce 84 .025 

13^ ozs. cake 175 .022 

3/4 oz. nut butter 150 .015 

11 ozs. whole milk 220 .037 

1 oz. condensed milk 95 .01 

% oz. sugar 58 .003 

}4 oz. maple syrup 40 .005 

5 ozs. potatoes 100 .012 

2 ozs. pork 200 .04 

ZYi ozs. bread 190 .012 

Tea @. 48 per lb .002 

1,467 .190 

When serving food, it is better to serve an under 
portion and a second helping than to serve more than 
the person can eat, and have some left over. 

SATURDAY 
LUNCH 

Kelloggs Krumbles 

Raisin Bread 

Tea 

Calories Cost 
2 ozs. raison bread 152 .01 

1 oz. Krumbles 85 .012 

2 ozs. milk 40 .007 

^ oz. condensed milk 24 .002 

Tea .003 

301 .034 



74 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

SATURDAY 
DINNER 

Pork Stew 

Whole Wheat Bread 

Rice Pudding 

Raisin Pie 

The stew contained: 

Calories Cost 

6 ozs. pork, (med. lean) 600 .105 

1 oz. barley 100 .005 

1 oz. beans 100 .01 

corn mush 50 .002 

5 ozs. potatoes 100 .012 

2 ozs. onions 26 .005 

976 .139 
Rice pudding: 

1 oz. rice @ .12 per lb 100 .007 

1 oz. raisins @ .12 per lb 90 .007 

1 oz. sugar @ .14 per lb 116 .006 

2 ozs. milk 40 .007 

346 .027 
Raisin pie: (very small) 

2 ozs. raisins 180 .014 

2 ozs. sugar 232 .012 

3 ozs. apples 42 .02 

Pie crust 600 .045 

1054 .091 

2^ ozs. whole wheat bread 212 .012 

1 oz. nut butter @ .32 per lb 200 .02 

16 ozs. milk 320 .052 

732 .084 

Total 3108 .341 

This was a well-balanced and an economical dinner, 
well suited for a workingman's family. 

The meat stew was the most expensive portion, 
because it supplied the bulk of the protein. All the 



LIVING ON 10 CENTS A MEAL 75 

items of the stew, except the onion, contained protein, 
and, being cooked in this way, none of the nutrients 
were lost. We used up a little left-over corn mush. 
Meat broth always improves the flavor of corn meal. 
Left-over oatmeal, barley, beans, or stale bread can 
be used in the same way. The rice pudding was very 
cheap, but it contained very little protein ; 346 calories 
of energy cost only two and three-quarter cents. The 
raisin pie was also cheap, 1054 calories, costing a trifle 
more than nine cents. This, of course, was home made. 
The whole dinner cost 34 cents and yielded 3108 calo- 
ries. At the present high prices, food may be consid- 
ered exceptionally cheap if one cent buys 100 calories 
of well-balanced foods. At this rate it would cost the 
average man about 30 cents a day, and the average 
woman about 25 cents a day, for food. At present, 
however, it looks as if the days of 100 calories for one 
cent are gone forever. 

To-day's three meals cost 56^^ cents and yielded 
4876 calories, more than half of which were supplied 
in the dinner. 

Home-made breakfast food may be made by dipping 
stale bread into molasses and water and then drying 
it in the warming oven for half a day or more. Then 
the crisp bread may be easily crushed with the rolling 
pin or put through the food chopper. Served with 
cream and sugar, it is very palatable and much cheaper 
than marketed preparations. 



76 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

SUNDAY 
BREAKFAST 

Mixed Fruit 

Baked Pork and Beans 

Whole Wheat Bread 

Nut Butter 

Coffee 

Calories Cost 
Mixed Fruits (1 apple, 1 orange, 

sugar) 227 .05 

4 02S. beans @ .17 per lb 400 .042 

3 ozs. fat pork @ .32 per lb 525 .06 

54 oz. molasses 45 

SYz ozs. whole wheat bread 583 .003 

1 oz. nut butter 200 .02 

21^ ozs. whole milk 50 .001 

1 oz. condenced milk 95 .01 

Coffee .015 



2125 .210 



SUNDAY 
DINNER 



Fried Pork Chops with Apple Sauce 

Fried Potatoes with Onions 

Rice Pudding 

Bread and Butter 

Cocoa 

Calories Cost 

8 ozs. pork chops (medium fat) 1,000 .175 

20 ozs. potatoes 400 .05 

3 ozs. onions 39 .007 

3 ozs. bread 228 .012 

Apple sauce 77 .025 

1 oz. rice 100 .007 

1 oz. raisins 90 .007 

10 ozs. milk 200 .032 

2 ozs. sugar 232 .012 

54 oz. cocoa 72 .01 

Yz oz. nut butter 100 .01 

2,538 .347 

Frying is one of the most wasteful methods of cook- 
ing, and in the average workman's home it is perhaps 



LIVING ON 10 CENTS A MEAL 77 

the method most commonly used. Unless fried with 
extreme care in deep fat, much of the fat will evapo- 
rate and much will be lost by the meat sticking to 
the pan. 

When frying steak, the pan should be very hot 
before placing the steak in it. This heat coagulates 
the surface of the meat and helps to retain the juices. 
The steak should be turned often and allowed to get 
hot through, but not "well done." 

Pork chops may be cooked in the same way, but 
they should be well done. Apple sauce, eaten with 
pork, especially roast pork, aids in its digestion. 

Calories Cost 
TO-DAY'S MEALS: 

Breakfast 2,125 .210 

Dinner 2,538 .347 

4,663 .557 



MONDAY 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed Fruit 

Oatmeal with Milk 

Bacon and Egg 

Bread and Butter 

Tea 

Calories Cost 

Sl4 ozs. peaches and prunes 198 .02 

1 oz. oatmeal 100 .005 

2 ozs. bacon (medium fat) @ .48 per lb 350 .06 

1 egg @ .48 per doz 100 .04 

3% ozs. bread 266 .017 

8 ozs. whole milk 160 .028 

1 oz. condensed milk 95 .012 

Yz oz. nut butter 100 .01 

1 oz. sugar 116 .006 

Tea 002 

1,485 .20 



78 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

Two ounces of bacon and one egg cost half the price 
of the entire breakfast, but yielded less than one- 
third of the total calories. The egg cost eight times 
as much as the ounce of oatmeal and was perhaps 
very nearly similar in nutrients. 

MONDAY 

LUNCH 

Bread and Butter 

Tea 

Calories Cost 
5 ozs. bread, Yz oz. nut butter, tea 480 .037 

MONDAY 

DINNER 

Stewed Pork 

Mashed Turnips 

Baked Potatoes 

Bread and Butter 

Bread Pudding 

Cornstarch Pudding 

Coffee 

Calories Cost 

4 ozs. pork (medium fat) @ .28 per lb 400 .07 

12 ozs. turnips 120 .03 

4 ozs. potatoes 80 .01 

3 ozs. bread 228 .015 

Yz oz. nut butter @ .32 per lb 100 .01 

11 ozs. whole milk @ .13 per qt 220 .942 

Yz oz. condensed milk 47 .005 

1 oz. sugar 116 .006 

Whole wheat, bread pudding 1,016 .087 

Cornstarch pudding 114 .01 

4 oz. (1) apple 56 .02 

Coffee @ .32 per lb .01 

2,497 .315 

The pork was cut in pieces and cooked slowly in 
a pan with as little water as possible. The juice made 
a delicious gravy for the turnips and potatoes. 

The cook did not intend two desserts for this meal, 
but the male member made a pudding of his own by 



LIVING ON 10 CENTS A MEAL 79 

breaking up some whole wheat bread, and adding nuts, 
raisins, milk and sugar. 

Totals for to-day : 

Calories Cost 

Breakfast 1,485 .200 

Lunch 480 .037 

Dinner 2,497 .315 

4,462 I52 

TUESDAY 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed Fruit 

Whole Wheat with Milk 

Pancakes with Syrup 

Bread and Butter 

Jam Tea 

Calories Cost 

S% ozs. peaches and prunes 198 .02 

iy2 ozs. whole wheat 157 .007 

3 ozs. prepared pancake flour 300 .02 

2 ozs. maple syrup 160 .015 

2 ozs. white bread 152 .01 

1 oz. sugar 116 .006 

2 ozs. nut butter 400 .04 

% oz. jam 47 .007 

8 ozs. whole milk 160 .03 

54 oz. condenced milk 47 .005 

Tea 002 

1,737 .162 

Pancakes are a cheap food, and if made right are 
much liked by most people. When prepared flour 
is used in making pancakes, the process is so simple 
that it requires no explanation. 

The whole wheat at 8 cents a pound was again the 
cheapest item of our breakfast, one cents' worth yield- 
ing 210 calories. One cent's worth of sugar at 10 
cents a pound yields 186 calories. One cent's worth 
of butter at 48 cents a pound yields about 75 calories. 



80 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

TUESDAY 
LUNCH 

Bread and Butter 

Cornstarch Pudding 

Milk 

Calories Cost 

25^ ozs. bread 190 .012 

4 ozs. whole milk 80 .015 

Yi 02. nut butter 100 .01 

Cornstarch pudding, left-over . . . 144 .01 



484 .047 



TUESDAY 
DINNER 



Meat Stew 

Bread and Butter 

Cornmeal Doughnuts 

Cocoa 

Calories Cost 

4 ozs. pork (lean) @ .28 per lb 400 .07 

1 oz. beans @ .17 per lb 100 .012 

1 oz. barley @ .08 per lb 100 .005 

Yz oz. rice @ .12 per lb 50 .007 

8 ozs. potatoes @ .04 per lb 160 .02 

2 ozs. onions @ 04 per lb 26 .005 

10 ozs. whole milk @ .13 per qt 200 .037 

4 ozs. white bread 304 .02 

Y2 oz. nut butter @ .32 per lb 300 .03 

1 oz. sugar 116 .006 

Yz oz. cocoa 72 .012 

10 ozs. doughnuts 1,022 ..132 

2.850 .356 

The pork, beans, barley, rice, potatoes, and onions 
were cooked in a stew, the beans and pork being 
partly cooked before adding the other items which 
require less cooking. 

Our doughnuts were made with corn meal and 
wheat flour. Only a small portion was made, and 
those were all eaten at the above meal. Here are 
the materials used: 



LIVING ON 10 CENTS A MEAL 81 

2 ozs. white flour ^ of a teaspoon baking 

1 oz. cornmeal powder 

2 ozs. sugar Half an egg 

54 oz. butter Fried in Crisco 

2 ozs. milk 

They cost about 13^/^ cents and yielded about 1022 
calories. 

TO-DAY'S TOTALS: 

Calories Cost 

Breakfast 1.737 .162 

Lunch 484 .047 

Dinner 2,850 .356 

5,071 .565 

WEDNESDAY 
BREAKFAST 

Baked Pork and Beans 

Bread and Butter 

Tea 

Calories Cost 
4 ozs. beans 400 .042 

3 ozs. pork (fat) 408 .052 

4 ozs. bread 304 .02 

4^ ozs. mUk 90 .015 

Yi oz. condensed milk 47 .005 

1 oz. nut butter 200 .02 

Tea 005 

1,449 459 

WEDNESDAY 
LUNCH 

Crackers and Milk 
Cheese 

Calories Cost 

8 ozs. milk 160 .030 

ly^ ozs. crackers 150 .012 

2 ozs. cheese 270 .035 

580 .077 

A good husband seldom leaves a good cook. 



82 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

WEDNESDAY 
DINNER 

Pork Stew 

Hot Johnny Cake wth Butter and Syrup 

Nut and Raisin Bread, 

Whole Wheat Bread 

Ketchup Crackers 

Coffee 

The stew contained: 

Calories Cost 

2 ozs. dried peas 200 .02 

8 ozs. potatoes 160 .02 

2 ozs. onions 26 .005 

2 ozs. medium lean pork 200 .055 

1 oz. cornmeal 100 .005 

686 .105 

Johnny cake 578 .07 

1% ozs. maple syrup 160 .017 

3 ozs. whole wheat bread 315 .015 

1^ ozs. nut butter 300 .03 

17 ozs. whole milk @ .11 per qt 340 .06 

1 oz. condensed milk 95 .01 

1 oz. sugar 116 .006 

114 ozs. ketchup 25 .025 

1 oz. crackers (sodas) 120 .01 

6 ozs. nut and raisin bread 540 .09 

Coffee .01 J 

3,275 .453 

It is unfortunate that a more savory name than 
"stewing" has not been applied to cooking a combi- 
nation of foods. If properly done, it brings out the 
flavor of meat, and the meat juices impart a dehcious 
flavor to vegetables or cereals cooked with it. But 
in spite of this fact the mere word "stew" is enough 
to spoil some people's appetites. 

THE POTATO is generally supposed to be defi- 
cient in protein, containing from 2 to 2.5%, 18% to 
20% carbohydrates, practically no fat, and about 1% 



LIVING ON 10 CENTS A MEAL 83 

ash and 75 to 79% water. The total fuel value per 
pound of potatoes is about 378 calories. Sweet pota- 
toes contain practically the same nutriment as white 
potatoes, and, in addition, about 5 to 8% of sugar, 
which gives them a fuel value of 558 calories per 
pound. 

The ash of the potato is especially valuable to older 
persons with acid blood, but much of this ash or salts 
may be lost in cooking or removed with the peel, as it 
lies just under the skin of the potato. Protein and 
starch may also be lost in cooking, particularly if 
the potato is first peeled, then cut up and cooked in 
water. By this method of cooking as much as one- 
third of the total nutriment of the potato may be lost. 
This means that if you spend $3.00 for a bag of pota- 
toes you may waste one dollar's worth in the cooking. 
Boiling, steaming, or baking the potatoes in their 
skins will save most of the nutrients that would other- 
wise be lost. If mashed potatoes are desired, first 
boil the potato in its jacket, then peel and mash in 
the usual way. This will save the nutrients and give 
your potatoes a richer flavor. Baked potatoes should 
be broken open as soon as cooked to let the steam 
escape and prevent sogginess. Keep warm until ready 
for use. If peeled potatoes are soaked for several 
hours before cooking, 25% of their protein is wasted. 
Only 1% of the protein and 3% of the ash is lost when 
boiled in their jackets. In baked potatoes the starch 
is more thoroughly cooked than in boiled, as the tem- 
perature of the oven is usually several degrees hotter 
than boiling water. 

The salts, or ash, of the potato constitute nearly 



84 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

5% of its dry substance, and are chiefly potash. Those 
alkaline salts are very important in maintaining the 
alkaline condition of the blood, which is essential to 
good health and resistance to disease. Meats contain 
an excess of acid, so the alkaline salts of vegetables 
are needed to balance the diet. 

In a bulletin on "Foods and Food Values," issued by 
the Dairy and Food Department of the State of Mich- 
igan, there is an excellent article on the potato cred- 
ited to Dr. J. H. Kellogg, Superintendent of the Battle 
Creek Sanitarium. This bulletin quotes Dr. Kellogg 
as one of the greatest authorities on food in the world. 
The article contains a table of comparison showing the 
total nutritive value of the potato compared with some 
other foods. 

One pound of baked potato is equivalent to 1^4 
pounds of boiled potato, which shows that a very large 
percentage of the potato may be wasted in cooking. 
Other comparisons are as follows: 

One pound of baked potato is equal to: 

is^ ibs. boiled potato 8 eggs 

SVs ozs boiled beef 9 pts. baked b:a:i3 

1 lb. chicken 7 ozs. bread 

15^ lb. cod fish 134 pts. oatmeal mush 

2% pts. oysters, solids 1 lb. bananas 

4 pts. clams in shell 1 lb. cooked green peat 
4% pts. beef juice 5 ibs. tomatoes 

5 lbs. turnips cooked 1^4 pts. whole milk 

6J/2 lbs. cucumbers 

Sweet potatoes should be slowly baked to give the 
best results. 

About 60% of the ash of the potato is potash, but 
it contains very little iron, calciimi, and phosphorous. 
It must be remembered that those elements are par- 



LIVING ON 10 CENTS A MEAL 85 

ticularly needed for growing children. 

If we figure the potato at three cents a pound, 
which would be equal to $1.80 a bushel, and compare 
it in price with some other foods, based on the com- 
parison of the above table, eight eggs at 60 cents a 
dozen would cost 40 cents, or fourteen times more 
than one pound of potato, while they contained the 
same nutriment. Compared with milk at 12 cents a 
quart, the potato is less than half the price based on 
the total nutritive value. 

The potato is also deficient in fat, for it contains 
practically none. But its lack in protein and fat is 
more than offset in the value of its alkaline salts and 
the nutritious value of its starch. The starch of the 
potato is more easily digested than meat or the starch 
of cereals. 

The Irish nation is remarkable for its longevity, 
there being ten times as many centenarians in Ireland 
as there are in England, and there is no doubt but 
that the diet of the Irish is responsible for much of 
their long life. Potatoes, milk, and oatmeal have long 
formed the bulk of the Irish diet. 

The health of the average American would undoubt- 
edly be improved to a very great extent if he would 
reduce his consumption of meat and sugar and eat 
more potatoes, whole wheat, peas, beans, milk, eggs, 
oatmeal, and com meal. 

We should remember that the potato is short in fat, 
lime, and protein, so when our diet contains a large 
proportion of potatoes, we should make up the defi- 
ciency with meat, eggs, butter, milk, nuts, peas, beans. 
Each of these foods contains some nutrient lacking in 



86 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

the potato. The average adult requires about 14 grains 
of lime per day, and this is the amount contained in 
a pint of milk. Peas and beans contain about eight 
grains of lime to the pound. 

There is reasonable ground to assume that an in- 
creased consumption of potatoes would lessen the fol- 
lowing diseases: constipation, which is the source of 
many ills; gout, rheumatism, arteriosclerosis, or hard- 
ening of the arteries, Bright's disease, heart disease, 
apoplexy, anemia, diabetes; and we might well in- 
clude most contagious diseases, for a healthy body 
can resist many contagious diseases that would be 
fatal to a weakened system, 

TOTALS FOR WEEK 

THURSDAY 

Calories Cost 

Breakfast 1,434 .185 

Lunch 318 .022 

Dinner 2,245 .366 

/ 3,997 .573 
FRIDAY 

Breakfast 1,514 .189 

Lunch 352 .032 

Dinner 2,836 .498 

4,702 .719 
SATURDAY 

Breakfast 1,467 .190 

Lunch 301 .034 

Dinner 3,108 .341 

4,876 .565 
SUNDAY 

Breakfast 2,125 .210 

Dinner 2.538 .347 

4,663 .557 



LIVING ON 10 CENTS A MEAL 87 

MONDAY 

Breakfast 1,485 .200 

Lunch 480 .037 

Dinner 2,497 .315 

4,462 .552 
TUESDAY 

Breakfast 1,737 .162 

Lunch 484 ,047 

Dinner 2,850 .356 

5,071 .565 
WEDNESDAY 

Breakfast 1,449 .159 

Lunch 580 .077 

Dinner 3,275 .453 

5,304 .689 

Thursday 3,997 .573 

Friday 4,702 .719 

Saturday 4,876 .565 

Sunday 4,663 .557 

Monday 4,462 .552 

Tuesday 5,071 .565 

Wednesday 5,304 .689 

33,075 $4,220 

Last week our meals cost $4.88 and yielded 34,729 
calories. This week the cost was $4.22 and the calo- 
ries were 33,075, more than 1400 calories less than 
last week, while the cost was about 53 cents less, mak- 
ing it a little more than 10 cents per meal 

Bad cooking makes bad temper. Bad temper is 
poison. 

^ •t •» 

It's a hard task to make sickness and happiness live 
together. 



CHAPTER VII 

THIRD WEEK 

LIVING ON 9 CENTS PER MEAL 

SUNDAY 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed Fruit 

Rolled Oats with Milk 

Buckwheat Cakes with Syrup 

Bread and Butter 

Cofitee 

Calories Cost 

1 02. rolled oats 100 .005 

4 ozs. prepared buckwheat flour 392 .020 

1 oz. stewed fruit 36 .005 

\% ozs. sugar 174 .009 

IJ^ ozs. nut butter 300 .03 

lYi ozs. bread 114 .007 

1 oz. condensed milk 95 .012 

10 ozs. whole milk 200 .04 

2 ozs. maple syrup 160 .02 

Coffee .01 

1,571 .158 

ROLLED PANCAKES 

"lY/TAKE pancakes in the usual way. As soon as each 

is taken from the griddle, spread with butter and 

then jelly of whatever flavor desired. Then roll them 

up like a jelly roll, and keep hot until ready to serve. 

SUNDAY 
DINNER 

Beef Stew 

Nut and Raisin Bread 

Rye Bread 

Oatmeal Muffins 

Tea 

88 



LIVING ON 9 CENTS A MEAL 89 

The beef stew contained : 

Calories Cost 

6 ozs. beef, medium lean 300 .08 

1 oz. beans 100 .01 

2 ozs. barley 200 .01 

1 oz. rice 100 .007 

1 oz. onion 13 .002 

4 ozs. potatoes 80 .01 

2 ozs. rye bread 152 .01 

6 ozs. nut and raisin bread 540 .09 

13 ozs. whole milk 260 .05 

Yz oz. condensed milk 47 .005 

2 ozs. sugar 232 .012 

2 ozs. nut butter 400 .04 

15^ ozs. ketchup 25 .025 

6 oatmeal muffins 740 .057 

3,189 .408 

Stew is certainly not considered a classy Sunday 
dinner, but this week we are not considering "class." 
We are trying to reduce the cost to a minimum and 
at the same time have nutritious, appetizing food. 

BARLEY at eight cents a pound is very cheap. 
Like most other cereals, its fuel value is about 1650 
calories to the pound. The coarse, dark barley usually 
contains more of the ash and is, therefore, a better 
food. Barley meal and barley flour contain over 
25^% of ash and make bread or biscuits of excellent 
flavor. It is a shame that there is such a prejudice 
against its dark color. Barley flour contains about 
five times as much ash as fine wheat flour. Barley 
ash contains 20% potash and 2]^% lime. 

^ •£ W^ 

Don't handicap a tasty dish with a shabby dress. 
Good looks go a long way with food. 



90 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

MONDAY 
BREAKFAST 

Apple Sauce 

Corn Meal Mush with Milk 

Oatmeal Muffins 

Coffee 

Calories Cost 

^% ozs. apple sauce 139 .025 

1 oz. cornmeal 100 .005 

9 ozs. whole milk 180 .032 

1% ozs. sugar 174 .009 

Yz oz. nut butter 100 .01 

1 oz. bread 76 .005 

1 oz. condensed milk 95 .01 

6 oatmeal muffins 740 .057 

Coffee .01 

1.604 .163 

These oatmeal muffins are exceptionally cheap, cost- 
ing slightly less than one cent each, and yieldmg 123 
calories each. They are also fairly well balanced, as 
they contain fat, protein, and carbohydrate. One rea- 
son for their cheapness was that the egg was cracked 
and bought for one cent. But even allowing the usual 
price for eggs, these muffins would still be about 100 
calories for one cent. Here is the recipe: 

214 ozs. (34 cup) oatmeal 2 ozs. sugar 
4 ozs. (1 cup) wheat flour J/^ teaspoon salt 
1 egg 1 teaspoon baking powder 

14 pint milk 

Mix the oatmeal flour, sugar, salt, and baking pow- 
der. Work the lard into the dry ingredients. Then 
add the egg, beaten, and the milk. Bake in muffin 
tins about 15 minutes in hot oven. 

System is the helm of the ship of good luck. 



LIVING ON 9 CENTS A MEAL 91 

MONDAY 
LUNCH 

Fried Potatoes 

Bread and Butter 

Chocolates 

Tea 

Calories Cost 

8 ozs. potatoes 160 .02 

3 ozs. bread 228 .015 

3 ozs. whole milk 60 .01 

1 oz. Crisco (to fry potatoes) 200 .02 

Tea .002 

648 .067 

MONDAY 
DINNER 

Bread and Milk and Sugar 

Biscuits 

Baked Rice 

Cocoa 

Calories 

9 ozs. bread 684 

24 ozs. milk 480 

3 ozs. sugar 348 

1 oz. nut butter 200 

3 ozs. biscuits 200 

2 ozs. rice 200 

^/i oz. cocoa 72 

2,184 .213 

MONDAY 
LUNCH 

Biscuits 

with 

Butter and Syrup 

Cocoa 

Calories 

6 biscuits 400 

Yi oz. nut butter 100 

1 oz. sugar 116 

3 ozs. milk 60 

V/z ozs. maple syrup 120 

54 oz. cocoa 38 

834 .069 



92 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

This was a meatless day for us, and we had very 
little other food to take its place, except the milk, of 
which we used about 39 ounces (almost one quart 
and half a pint), besides what was contained in the 
biscuits. 

We ate our second lunch after coming from the 
theatre, and this lunch, which cost less than seven 
cents, yielded 834 calories, but like our other meals of 
to-day it contained very little protein. Most of the 
protein we consumed to-day was in the milk, which 
contained about 1% ounces, so that we were very 
much below the average daily requirement of 1 to 4 
ounces per person. 

In meals like to-day's there should be peas or beans 
or nuts or cheese to take the place of meat or fish. 
Still many dietetic experiments have shown that a 
healthy man may continue in normal condition for 
a long time on bread and milk. 

MILK is a perfect food for infants, but is not suffi- 
cient for adults. Its fuel value is almost 325 calories 
to the pint. Whole milk is about 87% water, with 4% 
fat, a little over 3% protein, 5% carbohydrates, and 
7/10 of 1% ash. Skimmed milk has the same nutrients 
as whole milk except the fat, which reduces its fuel 
value to almost half that of whole milk. Buttermilk 
also contains most of the nutrients of whole milk, 
minus the fat, and has a slightly lower fuel value than 
skimmed milk. 

The average adult body requires about 14 grains of 
lime per day to keep the bones and teeth in repair. 
It is said that one of the great causes of bad teeth 
is lack of lime. One pint of whole or skimmed milk 



LIVING ON 9 CENTS A MEAL 93 

contains 14 grsiins of lime, enough for the average 
adult, but not for growing children. 

TUESDAY 
BREAKFAST 

Whole Wheat with Milk and Sugar 

Buckwheat Pancakes with Butter and Syrup 

Bread and Butter 

Coffee 

Calories Cost 

114 ozs. whole wheat 157 .007 

4 ozs. prepared buckwheat 392 .02 

1% ozs. sugar 174 .009 

6 ozs. whole milk 120 .022 

% oz. condensed milk 47 .005 

3 ozs. maple syrup 240 .03 

Yz oz. nut butter 100 .005 

1 oz. bread 76 .005 

Coffee @ .36 per lb .015 



1.306 .118 



TUESDAY 
LUNCH 



Stewed Fruit 

Bread and Milk with Syrup 

Coffee 

Calories Cost 

1 oz. bread 76 .005 

2 ozs. syrup 160 .01 

2^^ ozs. whole milk 50 .01 

2 ozs. stewed fruit 72 .01 

Coffee .01 



358 .045 



TUESDAY 
DINNER 

Beef Stew 

Bread Pudding 

Corn Muffins 

Coffee 

For beef stew: 



94 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

Calories Cost 

4 ozs. boiling beef @ .20 per lb 200 .05 

4 ozs. barley 400 .02 

5 ozs, potatoes 100 .012 

2 ozs. onions 26 .005 

726 .087 

3 ozs. bread 228 .015 

19 ozs. whole milk 380 .07 

Yi oz. condensed milk 47 .005 

2 ozs. sugar 232 .012 

2^ ozs. dairy butter @ .50 per lb 563 .08 

6 ozs. corn muffins 735 .072 

Coffee .007 

2,911 .348 
To-day's totals: 

Breakfast 1,306 .118 

Lunch 358 .045 

Dinner 2,911 .348 

4,575 .511 

To-day's breakfast was another of our cheaper 
meals, less than eleven cents, yielding 1306 calories. 

We got tired of nut butter and indulged in the more 
expensive article. No manufactured product can 
equal the genuine dairy butter, either in flavor or 
wholesomeness. Although it might be easy to manu- 
facture a butter substitute with a fuel value as high 
or higher than dairy butter, no substitute has so far 
equalled the genuine in flavor. Dairy butter is the 
most easily digested of all fats. 

WEDNESDAY 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed Fruit 

Rolled Oats with Milk 

Corn Muffins 

Toast 

Tea 



LIVING ON 9 CENTS A MEAL 95 



Calories 

4 ozs. peaches and prunes 144 

1 oz. oatmeal 115 

9 ozs. whole milk 180 

1 oz. condensed milk 95 

1 oz. sugar 116 

1% ozs. dairy butter @ .50 per lb 337 

3 ozs. bread 228 

4 ozs. corn muffins 490 

Tea 



1,705 .190 



WEDNESDAY 
LUNCH 

Cake and Cocoa 

Calories 

lOJ/^ ozs. home-made cake 1,085 

1 oz. sugar 116 

95^2 ozs. whole milk 190 

5^ oz. cocoa 72 



1,463 .163 



WEDNESDAY 
DINNER 

Boston Baked Pork and Beans 

Whole Wheat Biscuits 

Boiled Rice 

Bread and Butter 

Coffee 

Calories 
6 ozs. beans 600 

4 ozs. fat pork 700 

1 oz. molasses 80 

2 ozs. rice 200 

2 ozs. bread 152 

% oz. dairy butter 112 

2 ozs. sugar 232 

7% ozs. whole milk 150 

1 oz. condensed milk 95 

5 whole wheat biscuits 350 

Coffee 



2.671 .281 



96 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

To-day's totals: 

Breakfast 1,705 .190 

Lunch 1,463 .163 

Dinner 2,671 .281 

5,839 .634 

THURSDAY 
BREAKFAST 

Apple Sauce 

Corn Meal Mush 

Whole Wheat Biscuits 

with 

Butter and Syrup 

Tea 

Calories Cost 

1 oz. corn meal mush 100 .005 

5 ozs. whole wheat biscuits 350 .027 

8 ozs. whole milk 160 .028 

54 oz. condensed milk 47 .005 

Yz oz. sugar 58 .003 

y^ oz. dairy butter @ .48 per lb 112 .015 

4 ozs. apple sauce 124 .02 

Yz oz. syrup (com) 37 .003 

Tea .002 

988 .108 

THURSDAY 
LUNCH 

Bread and Butter 
Cocoa 

Calories Cost 

V/i ozs. milk 170 .03 

V/z ozs. sugar 174 .009 

1 oz. dairy butter 225 .032 

4 ozs. bread 304 .02 

Yz oz. cocoa 72 .01 



945 .101 



THURSDAY 
DINNER 

Beef Stew 

Bread Pudding 

Coffee 



LIVING ON 9 CENTS A MEAL 97 

Calories Cost 
Boiled together: 

4 ozs. boiling beef (med. fat) @ .20 lb 250 .05 

1 oz. barley 100 .005 

1 oz. rice 100 .007 

1 oz. beans 100 .011 

1 oz. peas 100 .01 

4 ozs. potatoes 80 .01 

8 ozs. ruta-bagas 68 .025 

798 .118 

6 ozs. bread 456 .03 

13 ozs. whole milk 260 .05 

3 ozs. sugar 348 .018 

Yz oz. dairy butter @ .51 per lb 112 .016 

^ oz. condensed milk 24 .002 

Coffee .01 

1,998 .244 

Ruta-bagas and turnips have 62% water and 30% 
refuse. Their fuel value is little more than one-third 
that of potatoes. In our dinner half a pound cost 2J^ 
cents and yielded only 68 calories. 



FRIDAY 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed Fruit 

Whole Wheat 

Buckwheat Cakes with Maple Syrup 

Coffee 

Calories Cost 

3 ozs. stewed fruit 108 .015 

1% ozs. whole wheat 157 .007 

4 ozs. prepared buckwheat flour 392 .02 

2 ozs. maple syrup 160 .02 

^ oz. dairy butter 112 .017 

14 oz. sugar 58 .003 

8 ozs. whole milk 160 .03 

% oz. condensed milk 24 .002 

Coffee .01 

1.171 .124 



98 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

FRIDAY 

LUNCH 

Bread and Butter 

Soda Crackers 

Jam Apple 

Cocoa 

Calories Cost 

6 ozs. bread 456 .03 

2 ozs. dairy butter 450 .065 

3% ozs. soda crackers @ .16 per lb 420 .035 

B^A ozs. whole milk 170 .03 

1 oz. sugar 116 .006 

1 oz. peanut butter 175 .012 

5 ozs. raspberry jam 375 .062 

54 oz. cocoa 72 .005 

4 ozs. (1) apple 56 .02 

2,290 .265 

FRIDAY 
DINNER 

Baked Noodles with Cheese 

Plain Boiled Rice 

with 

Milk and Sugar 

Bread and Butter 

Syrup Tea 

Calories Cost 

2 ozs. noodles 208 .032 

2 ozs. cheese 270 .035 

2 ozs. rice 200 .015 

16 ozs. whole milk 320 .06 

5^ oz. condensed milk 47 .005 

1 oz. sugar 116 .006 

354 ozs. bread 266 .017 

VA ozs. dairy butter 337 .05 

1/2 oz. corn syrup 37 .002 

Coffee .01 



1,801 .232 



SATURDAY 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed Prunes 

Oatmeal with Milk 

Bread and Butter 

Coffee 



LIVING ON 9 CENTS A MEAL 99 

Calories Cost 

2 ozs. prunes 76 .01 

1 oz. oatmeal US .005 

SVi ozs. bread 418 .027 

V/i ozs. butter 337 .05 

SVi ozs. whole milk 170 .03 

% oz. condensed milk 24 .002 

1 02. sugar 116 .006 

Coffee 015 

1*1256 .145 

SATURDAY 
DINNER 

Boiled Rice 

with 

Milk and Sugar 

Bread and Butter 

Crackers Jam 

Tea 

Calories Cost 

2 ozs. rice 200 .015 

2 ozs. crackers 240 .02 

934 ozs. bread 722 .047 

2]4 ozs. dairy butter 562 .08 

3^ ozs. jam 263' .045 

1 oz. sugar 116 .006 

28 ozs. whole milk 560 .10 

54 oz. condensed milk 47 .005 

Tea .002 

2.710 .320 

TOTALS FOR WEEK 

SUNDAY 

Calories Cost 

Breakfast 1,571 .158 

Dinner 3,189 .408 

4,760 .566 

MONDAY 

Breakfast 1,604 

Lunch 648 

Dinner 2,184 

Evening Lunch 834 

5,270 



100 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

TUESDAY 

Breakfast 1,306 .118 

Lunch 358 .045 

Dinner 2,911 .348 

4 575 511 
WEDNESDAY 

Breakfast 1,705 .190 

Lunch 1,463 .163 

Dinner 2,671 .281 

5,839 .634 
THURSDAY 

Breakfast 988 .108 

Lunch 945 .101 

Dinner 1,998 .244 

3,931 .453 
FRIDAY 

Breakfast 1,171 .124 

Lunch 2,290 .265 

Dinner 1,801 .232 

5,262 .621 
SATURDAY 

Breakfast 1,256 .145 

Dinner 2,710 .320 

3,966 .465 

The cost of our meals the first week was $4.85 ; the 
second week $4.32, and the third week, just finished, 
$3.76, or about 9 cents per meal. At this same rate it 
would cost an average family of five about $10.10 a 
week for food. 

^ ^o ^Z 

The woman who is more particular about the ap- 
pearance of her kitchen than she is about that of her 
parlor is seldom seen in a divorce court. 

Cleanliness is the faithful servant of happiness. 



LIVING ON 9 CENTS A MEAL 101 

RESULTS FOR THREE WEEKS 

FIRST WEEK: 

Calonea Coat 

Wednesday 4,257 .611 

Thursday 6,225 .701 

Friday 4,740 .785 

Saturday 4,782 .731 

Sunday 5,405 .728 

Monday 4,702 .805 

Tuesday 4,412 .485 

34.523 $4,846 

For Two: Calories Coat 

Per day 4,932 $ .692 

For one: ^ ,.. 

Per meal 822 $.115 

SECOND WEEK: 

Thursday 3,997 .569 

Friday 4,702 .719 

Saturday 4,871 .565 

Sunday 4,665 .558 

Monday 4,472 .652 

Tuesday 5,071 .565 

Wednesday 5,302 .689 

33,080 $4,317 

For Two: Calories Cost 

Per day 4,726 $ .617 

For one: 

Perineal 788 $.103 

THIRD WEEK: 

Sunday 4,760 .566 

Monday 5,270 .512 

Tuesday 4,575 .511 

Wednesday 5,839 .634 

Thursday 3,931 .453 

Friday 5,262 .621 

Saturday 3,966 .465 

33,603 $3,762 



102 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

For Two: Calories Cost 

Per day 4,800 $ .537 

For one: 

Per meal 800 $ 0.9 

During the first week the man, who was slightly 
under his normal weight, gained about three pounds. 
The woman remained about the same. The total calo- 
ries averaged a little over 4900 per day for the two. 

Don't let your palate "sass" you back; make it like 
what's good for you. 

To win the race of life, eat your meal at meal hour. 

To work when you should eat is to neglect your 
work. 

•? *e I? 

Chew more and eat less. 

Gulping down your food with little chewing means 
that much is wasted. 

K K «( 

No careless person can avoid hard luck. 



CHAPTER VIII 

LIVING ON 12^ CENTS PER MEAL 

A Record for the Week Beginning March 31, 1919 

TI/TORE than a year elapsed after we made our last 
food test, and a few changes in prices had taken 
place since then. In this test meals that cost 12^ 
cents each yielded about 623 calories, while in the 
third week of our first experiment, meals costing 9 
cents each 5aelded about 800 calories. 

MONDAY 
BREAKFAST 

Wheat Cakes 

with 

Butter and Molasses 

Coffee 

Calories Cost 

4 ozs. pancake flour @ .12 per lb 392 .030 

1 oz. butter @ .69 per lb 225 .042 

1 oz. molasses @ .40 per qt 64 .007 

Yi oz. sugar @ .10 per lb 58 .003 

5 ozs, fresh milk @ .12 per qt 100 .02 

Yz oz. Evaporated milk @ .15 per lb. can.. 20 .005 

Coffee @ .32 per lb .01 



863 .117 



MONDAY 
LUNCH 

Left-Over Potatoes 

Fried in Crisco 

with Egg 

Bread and Butter 

Apple Pie 

Tea 

103 



104 



FOOD EFFICIENCY 



Calories Cost 

12 02S. potatoes @ .35 per pk. 240 .017 

1 egg @ .53 per doz 100 .042 

7 ozs. apple pie @ .07 for small pie 560 .05 

5^ oz. Crisco @ .30 per lb. can 100 .01 

2 ozs. bread @ .08 per lb 152 .01 

Yz oz. butter @ .69 per lb 112 .022 

214 ozs. fresh milk @ .12 per qt 50 .01 

f^ oz. Evaporated milk @ .06 per 6-oz. can 25 .005 

Tea @ .45 per lb .004 

1,339 .170 

MONDAY 
DINNER 

Beef Stew 

with 

Vegetables 

Bread and Butter 

Bread Pudding 

Calories Cost 
Beef Stew: 

8 ozs. boiling beef @ .45 per lb 400 .220 

8 ozs. potatoes @ .35 per pk 160 .013 

2% ozs. onions @ .04 per lb 33 .004 

% oz. rice @ .15 per lb 50 .005 

54 oz. barley @ .12 per lb 50 .003 

693 .245 

2H ozs. bread @ .08 per lb 190 . .012 

^^ oz. sugar @ .10 per lb 58 .003 

12 ozs. fresh milk @ .12 per qt 240 .050 

1 oz. ketchup @ .18 per 18-oz. bottle. .. .. 17 .022 

1 oz. Horseradish @ .10 per 8-oz. bottle.. 14 .012 

Bread pudding 335 .055 

1,547 399 



^ ^ " 



Rust eats away good material, 
from rusting. 



Exercise keeps you 



LIVING ON 12^ CENTS A MEAL 



105 



TUESDAY 
BREAKFAST 

Boston Baked Beans with Pork 

Bread and Butter 

Coffee 

Calories Cost 

3 ozs. small beans @ .10 per lb 300 .020 

3 ozs. fat pork @ .50 per lb 600 .094 

^ oz. molasses @ .40 per qt 32 .002 

2 ozs. bread @ .08 per lb 152 .010 

1 oz. sugar @ .10 per lb 116 .006 

6 ozs. fresh mUk @ .12 per qt 120 .022 

1 oz. evaporated milk @ .16 per can 49 .01 

Coffee @ .32 per lb .01 

1,369 .174 



TUESDAY 
LUNCH 

Bean and Potato Hash 

Bread and Butter 

Cocoa 

Calories Cost 

8 ozs. potatoes @ .35 per pk. 160 .012 

54 oz. Crisco @ .30 per lb 50 .005 

3 ozs. beans @ .10 per lb 300 .04 

2 ozs. bread @ .08 per lb 152 .01 

1 oz. butter @ .69 per lb 225 .042 

1 oz. sugar @ .10 per lb 116 .006 

10 ozs. milk @ .12 per qt 200 .037 

54 oz. cocoa @ .40 per lb 36 .002 

Bread pudding 165 .03 

1,404 .184 



TUESDAY 
DINNER 

Beef Stew with Noodles 

Bread and Butter 

Rice Pudding 

Tea 



106 



FOOD EFFICIENCY 



Calories Cost 

6 02S. boiling beef @ .45 per lb 400 .170 

8 ozs. potatoes @ .35 per pk 160 .012 

2 ozs. onions @ .04 per lb 26 .005 

1 oz. noodles @ .29 per lb 104 .020 

2 ozs. bread @ .08 per lb 152 .010 

Yi oz. butter @ .69 per lb 112 .022 

9 ozs. fresh milk @ .12 per qt 180 .037 

Yz oz. evaporated milk @ .16 per lb 24 .005 

Yi oz. sugar @ .10 per lb 58 .006 

Rice pudding 245 .007 

Tea 005 



1.461 



.299 



TUESDAY 
EVENING LUNCH 



1 orange 
1 apple . 



Calories 
. 52 
. 77 



129 



Cost 
.025 
.060 

.085 



WEDNESDAY 
BREAKFAST 

Rolled Oats with Milk 

Bread and Butter 

Coffee 

Calories Cost 

1 oz. rolled oats @ .09 per lb 115 .005 

1% ozs. sugar @ .10 per lb 174 .009 

9 ozs. milk, fresh, @ .11 per qt 180 .033 

14 oz. evaporated milk @ .16 per lb 24 .005 

1 oz. butter @ .71 per lb 225 .044 

3 ozs. bread @ .08 per lb 228 .015 

Coffee @ .32 per lb .01 

946 .121 



WEDNESDAY 
LUNCH 

Barley and Potatoes 

Cooked in Left-over Meat Broth 

Bread and Butter 

Cocoa 



LIVING ON 12^ CENTS A MEAL 107 

Calories Cost 

2 ozs. barley @ .12 per lb 200 .015 

4 ozs. potatoes @ .35 per pk 80 .007 

13A ozs, bread @ ,08 per lb 133 .008 

Yi oz. butter @ .71 per lb 113 .022 

1 oz. sugar @ .10 per lb 116 .006 

12 ozs. milk @ .11 per qt 240 .045 

54 02. cocoa @ .40 per lb 72 .012 

"954 Tll5 

WEDNESDAY 
DINNER 

Smoked Ham 
Fried Potatoes Pickled Beets 

Bread and Butter 

Chocolate Pudding with Orange Juice 

Buttermilk Fresh Milk 

Calories Cost 

16 ozs. potatoes @ .35 per pk 320 .023 

8 ozs. smoked ham @ .54 per lb 800 .27 

354 ozs. bread @ .08 per lb 280 .018 

54 oz. butter @ .71 per lb 112 .022 

14 oz. sugar @ .10 per lb 58 .003 

8 ozs. fresh milk @ .11 per qt 160 .03 

% oz. evaporated milk @ .16 per lb 25 .005 

4 ozs. pickled beets @ .24 per lb 46 .06 

SYi ozs. orange (1) 53 .025 

8 ozs. buttermilk @ .11 per qt 82 .03 

Chocolate pudding 237 .025 

2,173 .511 

Barley and potatoes cooked in left-over meat broth 
made quite a substantial lunch to-day at a very rea- 
sonable cost. But the smoked ham for our dinner 
was very expensive. One cent's worth of this ham at 
54 cents per lb. yielded less than 30 calories of energy. 

Another very expensive article of the dinner was 
the pickled beets, which cost six cents for four ounces, 
and this yielded only about 46 calories of energy. 
However, pickles and condiments are never eaten for 
their economical nutritive value, but because they 



108 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

Stimulate the appetite, or for the acids and salts they 
contain. The ash of beet is rich in chlorin and sodium. 
The chocolate pudding was cheap, one cent's worth 
3delding almost 100 calories. One person had a glass 
of buttermilk and the other a glass of sweet milk. 
Note the difference between the buttermilk and fresh 
milk. They both cost the same, 11 cents per quart. 
Eight ounces of the whole milk yielded 160 calories 
of energy while eight ounces of the buttermilk yielded 
only about 82 calories or half as much. The butter- 
milk contains almost the same nutrients as whole 
milk, with the exception of fat that has been con- 
verted into butter, which accounts for the difference 
in calorific value. 



THURSDAY 
BREAKFAST 

Corn Muffins 

with 

Butter and Molasses 

Coffee 

Calories Cost 

3 corn muffins 495 .063 

Yi oz. butter @ .71 per lb 112 :022 

^ oz. molasses @ .40 per qt 32 .005 

% oz. sugar @ .10 per lb 58 .003 

3 ozs. fresh milk @ .11 per qt 60 .01 

54 oz. evaporated milk @ .16 per lb 12 .002 

Coffee @ .32 per lb .012 

"769 "im 

THURSDAY 
LUNCH 

Fried Potatoes 

Toast Orange 

Crxillers 

Milk Coffee 



LIVING ON UVi CENTS A MEAL 109 

Calories Cost 

5 ozs. potatoes @ .35 per pk 100 .007 

2 ozs. bread @ .08 per lb 152 .01 

9 ozs. fresh milk @ .11 per qt 180 .03 

6 ozs. orange (1) 63 .033 

3 crullers (small) 500 .03 

Coffee @ .32 per lb .005 



995 .115 



THURSDAY 
DINNER 



Stewed Veal Potatoes 

Bread and Butter Corn Muffins 

Chocolate Pudding Tea 

Calories Cost 

8 ozs. veal (medium fat) @ .32 per lb 400 .16 

10 ozs. potatoes @ .35 per pk 200 .014 

3 ozs. bread @ .08 per lb 228 .015 

54 oz. butter @ .71 per lb 112 .022 

12 ozs. fresh milk @ .11 per qt 240 .04 

% oz. evaporated milk @ .16 per lb 25 .005 

1 corn muffin 165 .021 

Chocolate pudding 118 .012 

Tea @ .45 per lb .005 

5 ozs. Cocolate almonds @ $1.00 per lb... 625 .25 

2,113 .544 

Veal, on the average, has a lower food value than 
beef, so that when beef and veal are the same price per 
pound, veal is more expensive. But as a rule butchers 
charge more per pound for veal than they do for beef, 
considering both on the average. The veal we used 
in to-day's dinner cost only 32 cents per pound, and 
we considered it good value as we had better than the 
average cut. 

Note how expensive is candy. 625 calories for 25 
cents, and this with very little protein. Although we 
included it with the dinner's list, it was not eaten un- 
til later. 



110 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

FRIDAY 
BREAKFAST 

1 Orange Sliced 

Wheat Farina with Milk 

Coffee 

Calories Cost 

1 oz. wheat farina @ .16 per lb 100 .01 

11 ozs. fresh milk @ .11 per qt 220 .036 

'% oz. evaporated milk @ .16 per lb 25 .005 

2 ozs. sugar @ .10 per lb 232 .012 

5 ozs. orange (1) 53 .033 

Coffee @ .32 per lb .005 

630 .101 

Wheat farina, or middlings, has practically the same 
food value as wheat flour. On the farm we used to 
know it as "shorts." When the wheat was ground by 
the old stone process, it was sifted in a revolving cyl- 
indrical sieve. One end of this sieve was very fine and 
it gradually became coarser towards the other end, 
and so we had the finer flour, the "shorts," and the 
bran. 

There are a number of preparations in the market, 
known by different trade names, which are made from 
"middlings" or "shorts." Most of these are partly 
cooked. The old-fashioned porridge we made from our 
"shorts" required about one hour's cooking. 



FRIDAY 
LUNCH 

Milk Toast Buttered 

with 

Molasses 

Coffee 



LIVING ON 125^ CENTS A MEAL 111 

Calories Cost 

6^ ozs. bread @ .08 per lb 495 .032 

10 ozs. fresh milk @ .11 per qt 200 .033 

Yi oz. evaporated milk @ .16 per lb 24 .005 

lYz ozs. butter @ .71 per lb 337 .066 

J4 oz. molasses @ .40 per qt 32 .005 

Coffee @ .32 per lb .005 

1.203 .152 



FRIDAY 
DINNER 

Fresh Mackerel Fried in Crisco 

Macaroni and Cheese 

Potatoes Apples 

Buttermilk Tea 

Calories Cost 

16 ozs. mackerel @ .25 per lb 368 .25 

8 ozs. potatoes @ .35 per pk 160 .011 

16 ozs. fresh milk @ .11 per qt 320 .053 

Yi oz. Crisco @ .30 per lb 100 .018 

Ya oz. evaporated milk @ .16 per lb 12 .002 

Tea @ .48 per lb .002 

3 ozs. macaroni 312 .114 

8 ozs. apples (2 small) 112 .05 

8 ozs. buttermilk @ .11 per qt 82 .028 

1,466 "isis 

Fresh mackerel (whole), at 25 cents a pound, is 
little, if any, cheaper than good steak at 50 cents a 
pound. 



SATURDAY 
BREAKFAST 

Milk Toast 

with 

Butter and Molasses 

Coffee 



112 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

Calories Cost 

4 ozs. bread @ .08 per lb 304 .02 

16 ozs. fresh milk @ .11 per qt 320 .053 

54 oz. evaporated milk @ .15 per lb 24 .005 

Yi oz. butter @ .71 per lb 113 .022 

1 oz. sugar @ .10 per lb 116 .006 

Yi oz. molasses @ .40 per qt 32 .005 

Coffee @ .32 per lb .010 

909 .121 

SATURDAY 
LUNCH 

Hot Veal Broth 

with Eggs 

Buttered Toast 

Cocoa 

Calories Cost 

Left-over veal broth 30 

1 egg @ .48 per doz 100 .04 

SYz ozs. bread @ .08 per lb 266 .017 

1 oz. butter @ .71 per lb 225 .044 

17 ozs. fresh milk @ .11 per qt 340 .056 

% oz. sugar @ .10 per lb 58 .003 

li oz. cocoa @ .40 per lb 72 .012 

1,091 .172 

This was a simple and nutritious meal, easily pre- 
pared, and would be relished by most people. Some 
left-over veal broth was brought to the boiling point 
and poured over a beaten egg. Into this was dipped 
pieces of buttered toast. This makes a splendid meal 
for invalids or persons with lean appetites, 

SATURDAY 
DINNER 

Hot Beef Broth 

with 

Two Eggs and Milk 

Buttered Toast 

Baked Macaroni Baked Potatoes 

Pickled Beets 

Bread Pudding 

Tea 



LIVING ON UVz CENTS A MEAL 113 

Calories Co3t 

Beef broth 50 

2 eggs @ .48 per doz 200 .08 

8 ozs. potatoes @ .35 per pk 160 .011 

2 ozs, bread @ .08 per lb 152 .01 

% oz. butter @ .71 per lb 56 .011 

J^ oz. sugar @ .10 per lb 58 .03 

9 ozs. fresh milk @ .11 per qt 180 .03 

% oz. evaporated milk @ .16 per lb 12 .002 

Macaroni 260 .038 

2% ozs. pickled beets @ .24 per lb 29 .036 

^ 02. Crisco @ .30 per lb 100 .009 

Bread pudding 362 .052 

Tea @ .48 per lb. .003 

1,619 .285 

The beef broth, eggs, and toast were prepared in 

the same way as our veal broth for lunch, except that 

milk was added. This diet was prepared for the man, 

who had an ulcerated tooth and could not chew solid 

food. 

Hot lemonade at bedtime: 

Calories Cost 

Juice of two lemons 50 .05 

3 ozs. brown sugar @ .10 per lb 330 .018 

1 oz. white sugar @ .10 per lb 116 .006 

496 .074 

SUNDAY 

BREAKFAST 

Sliced Oranges 

Bacon and Eggs 

Coffee Cake 

Coffee 

Calories Cost 

3 ozs. bacon @ .60 per lb 525 .112 

2 eggs @ .48 per doz 200 .08 

2 ozs. coffee cake @ .24 per lb 200 .03 

1 oz. sugar @ .10 per lb 116 .006 

% oz. evaporated milk @ .16 per lb 13 .002 

10 ozs. oranges (2) 105 .066 

Coffee @ .36 per lb .015 

U59 .311 



114 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

SUNDAY 
DINNER 

Baked Meat Loaf 

Baked Potatoes 
Bread and Butter 

Bread Pudding 
Radishes Tea 

Calories Cost 

8 ozs. potatoes @ .35 per pk 160 .011 

4 ozs. veal (medium fat) @ .32 per lb. ... 200 .08 

4 ozs. beef @ .45 per lb 200 .112 

1 oz. bread @ .08 per lb 76 .005 

54 oz. butter @ .70 per lb 56 .011 

Yz oz. sugar @ .10 per lb 58 .003 

12 ozs. fresh milk @ .11 per qt 240 .04 

54 oz. evaporated milk @ .16 per lb 12 .002 

1 oz. horse radish @ .20 per lb 14 .014 

3 ozs. coffee cake @ .24 per lb 300 .045 

Bread pudding 361 .051 

Tea ,_ .002 

1,677 .376 

The meat loaf was made from some left-over veal 
with a piece of medium fat beef added, with potatoes 
and seasoning, and baked in the oven. 



TOTALS FOR WEEK 

Calories Cost 
MONDAY 

Breakfast 863 .117 

Lunch 1,339 .170 

Dinner 1,547 .399 

3,749 .686 
TUESDAY 

Breakfast 1,369 .174 

Lunch 1,404 .184 

Dinner 1,461 .299 

Lunch, Evening .........j. ^ ^,.. 129 .085 



4i363 .742 



LIVING ON UYz CENTS A MEAL 115 

WEDNESDAY 

Breakfast 946 .121 

Lunch 954 .115 

Dinner 2,173 .511 

4,073 .747 
THURSDAY 

Breakfast 769 .117 

Lunch 995 .115 

Dinner 2,113 .544 

3,877 .776 
FRIDAY 

Breakfast 630 .101 

Lunch 1,203 .152 

Dinner 1,466 .528 

3,299 .781 
SATURDAY 

Breakfast 909 .121 

Lunch 1,091 .172 

Dinner 1.619 .285 

Lemonade 496 .074 

4,115 .652 
SUNDAY 

Breakfast 1,159 .311 

Dinner 1,677 .376 

2,836 .687 

Calories Cost 

Monday 3,749 .686 

Tuesday 4,363 .742 

Wednesday 4,073 .747 

Thursday 3,877 .776 

Friday 3,299 .781 

Saturday 4,115 .652 

Sunday 2,836 .687 

26,312 $5,071 

FOR TWO Calories Cost 

Per day 3,736 .723 

FOR ONE 

Per meal 623 .125 



116 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

It will be noted that 26,152 calories is little more 
than half what is used in our previous tests. One 
reason for this low amount is that the woman was 
slightly indisposed with a cold, and the man was hav- 
ing his troubles with an ulcerated tooth. For three 
days his diet was principally broth, eggs, milk, and 
toast softened in the broth or milk. The woman's 
weight remained about the same, but the man lost al- 
most four pounds. Both did less than their usual 
amount of work. Another reason for the reduction in 
total calories was that the weather was warm. 

^ •t ^ 

Gassy stomach means that there is something wrong. 
Don't neglect it. 

As molasses draws flies so a grouch draws trouble. 

^ ^ •» 



F 



CHAPTER IX 

LIVING ON 16^ CENTS PER MEAL 
June 1, 1919 

OR this week's test we had an extra subject, a 
woman age 27, weighing 121 pounds. 

SATURDAY 
BREAKFAST 

Grape Nuts 

Bread and Butter 

Coffee 

Calories Cost 

1 oz. grape nuts @ .16 per lb 106 .01 

4 ozs. bread @ .08 per lb 306 .02 

l^A ozs. dairy butter @ .62 per lb 337 .058 

1 oz. evaporated milk @ .16 per lb 49 .01 

2 ozs. sugar @ .10 per lb 232 .012 

11 ozs. whole milk @ .11 per qt 220 .036 

Coffee @ .37 per lb .015 

1,250 .161 

The manufacturers of grape-nuts claim they are 
made or barley and other grains. Bulletin No. 28 does 
not quote them, but it states a fuel value of 1,700 cal- 
ories to the pound for shredded wheat, so we have 
allowed the same for grape-nuts. While this value 
may not be exact, it is near enough to answer our pur- 
pose. 

SATURDAY 
LUNCH 

Frankfort Sausages 

Combination Salad 

Bread and Butter 

Lemonade Milk 

117 



118 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

Calories Cost 

3 ozs. Frankfort sausages @ .30 per lb 220 .057 

6 ozs. bread @ .08 per lb 456 .03 

3^ ozs. lettuce 18 .05 

8 ozs. fresh tomatoes @ .20 per lb 52 .10 

6 ozs. celery @ .20 per lb 27 -075 

Yi oz. dairy butter @ .62 per lb 112 .019 

V/i ozs. sugar @ .10 per lb 174 .009 

1 oz. salad dressing @ .80 per lb 100 .05 

54 oz. mustard @ .22 per lb .006 

2 ozs. potatoes @ .05 per lb 40 .006 

3 ozs. cake @ .40 per lb 330 .075 

2 ozs. lemon juice 22 .017 

11 ozs. fresh milk @ .11 per qt 220 .036 

1,771 .530 

The combination salad was made of lettuce, celery, 
fresh tomatoes, fried potatoes, and salad dressing. It 
cost about 28 cents and yielded only 237 total calories, 
about 8^/2 calories for one cent. At this rate it would 
cost a workingman three to four dollars a day to get 
his required number of total calories. 

SALADS are tasty for hot weather and can be made 
from left-overs. Lettuce, tomatoes, celery, and salad 
dressing may be combined with cold meats, peas, 
beans, or cereals. Green vegetables are especially 
valuable for their salts, and we should eat liberally of 
them when they are in season, even if they do come 
very expensive. When they are used, we should bal- 
ance the dietary with meat, nuts, peas, beans, and 
grains, such as whole wheat or barley. 

SATURDAY 

DINNER 

Sirloin Steak 

Fried Potatoes 

Wienerwurst Sausages 

Sliced Tomatoes 

Bread Buns 

Cake Milk 



LIVING ON 16^ CENTS A MEAL 119 

Calories Cost 

5 ozs. steak @ .54 per lb 300 .17 

14 ozs. potatoes @ .75 per pk 280 .042 

7 ozs. Wienerwurst @ .30 per lb 650 .132 

4 ozs. fresh tomatoes @ .20 per lb 32 .05 

10 ozs. stewed tomatoes @ .12 per can (20- 

oz. can) 373 .077 

(Includes 1 oz. bread and 2 ozs. sugar.) 

1 oz. bread @ .08 per lb 76 .005 

5 ozs. buns @ .12 per doz 455 .06 

11 ozs. whole milk @ .11 per qt 220 .036 

54 oz. evaporated milk @ .16 per lb 12 .002 

2 ozs. spice cake @ .40 per lb 220 .05 

1 oz. mustard @ .11 per 8-oz. jar .014 

2,618 .658 

Steak was cooked for one of the members who did 

not like sausage. The wienerwurst sausages were 
made into sandwiches (hot dogs) with the buns, and 
the mustard was used in them. 

MUSTARD, like all other condiments, has no 
food value of its own. It is useful in improving the 
flavor of some foods and so stimulates the appetite. 
But it should be used moderately and is unnecessary 
for children. 

SUNDAY 
BREAKFAST 

Fruit Salad 

Bacon and Eggs 

Bread and Butter 

Coffee 

Calories Cost 

4 ozs. bacon (medium fat) @ .60 per lb... 700 .15 

3 ozs. eggs @ .58 per doz 300 .145 

5 ozs. bread @ .08 per lb 380 .025 

1 oz. dairy butter @ .62 per lb 225 .039 

1 oz. sugar @ .10 per lb 116 .006 

11 ozs. fresh milk @ .11 per qt 220 .036 

1% oz. evaporated milk @ .16 per lb 74 .015 



120 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

The fruit salad contained : 

10 ozs. (2) oranges @ .40 per doz 105 .066 

5 ozs. (1) banana @ .40 per doz 95 .033 

1 oz. raisins @ .16 per lb 90 .01 

3 ozs. sugar @ .10 per lb 348 .018 

Coffee @ .37 per lb 015 

2,653 .558 
SUNDAY 
DINNER 

Steak and Onions 

Fried Potatoes 

Canned Peas — Creamed 

Bread and Butter 

Tomato and Cucumber Salad 

Bread Pudding 

Tea 

Calories Cost 
22 ozs. sirloin steak (medium fat) @ .54 

per lb 1.430 .742 

lYz ozs. onions @ .14 per lb 32 .013 

16 ozs. potatoes @ .05 per lb 320 .05 

12 ozs. canned peas (1 can) @ .15 per can 320 .15 

1 oz. bread @ .08 per lb 76 .005 

lYi ozs. butter @ .62 per lb 337 .058 

2 ozs. sugar @ .10 per lb 232 .012 

1 qt. fresh milk @ .11 per qt 650 .11 

Yz oz. evaporated milk @ .16 per lb 25 .005 

6 ozs. fresh tomatoes @ .20 per lb 39 .075 

AYz ozs. cucumbers @ ,09 per lb 21 .025 

2 ozs. celery @ .20 per lb 9 .025 

54 oz. salad dressing @ .80 per lb 50 .025 

Bread pudding 676 .079 

Tea 005 

4,217 1.379 
Lunch at Childs Restaurant in evening after show: 

Calories Cost 

Wheat cakes and coffee 912 .60 

This lunch cost almost half what our dinner at home 

cost and yielded less than one-quarter as much in total 
calories. 



LIVING ON 1654 CENTS A MEAL 121 

MONDAY 
BREAKFAST 

Steak and Fried Potatoes 

Bread and Butter 

Coffee 

Calories Cost 

6 ozs. medium fat steak @ .54 per lb 420 .202 

4 ozs. potatoes @ .05 per lb 80 .012 

4 ozs. bread @ .08 per lb 304 .02 

1 oz. butter @ .62 per lb 225 .039 

11 ozs. fresh milk @ .11 per qt 220 .036 

154 ozs. sugar @ .10 per lb 174 .009 

Yi oz. evaporated milk @ .16 per lb 25 .005 

Coffee @ .37 per lb .015 



1,448 .338 



MONDAY 
LUNCH 



Thick Soup 

(Made from left-overs) 

Cheese 

Bread and Butter 

Bread Pudding 

Milk Coffee 

Calories Cost 
4 ozs. lamb chops (medium fat) @ .50 per 

lb 208 .125 

1 oz. rice @ .15 per lb 100 .010 

1 oz. noodles @ .28 per lb 104 .018 

6 ozs. bread @ .08 per lb 456 .03 

1 oz. dairy butter @ .62 per lb 225 .039 

2 ozs. cheese @ .40 per lb 270 .05 

11 ozs. fresh milk @ .11 per qt 220 .036 

54 oz. evaporated milk @ .16 per lb 12 .002 

Bread pudding 225 .026 

Coffee @ .32 per lb. .015 

1,820 .351 

The rice and noodles were cooked in some left-over 
broth and gravy, which added a very pleasant flavor. 
The lamb chops were some that were left over and 
were cut up small and added to this. 



122 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

CHEESE, as we have already said, is a very nutri- 
tious food and contains a large amount of protein. 
Even at 40 cents a pound, it is a much cheaper source 
of protein than meat. 

MONDAY 
DINNER 

Boiled Dinner 

Cake Rolls 

Bread and Butter 

Tea 

Calories Cost 
16 ozs. boiling beef (medium fat) @ .49 per 

lb 896 .49 

12 ozs. potatoes @ .05 per lb 240 .038 

6 ozs. carrots @ .04 per lb 60 .015 

6 ozs. string beans @ .10 per lb 67 .038 

2 ozs. onions @ .14 per lb 26 .018 

1 oz. bread @ .10 per lb 76 .006 

54 oz. butter @ .62 per lb 56 .009 

1 oz. evaporated milk @ .16 per lb 49 .01 

11 ozs. fresh milk @ .11 per qt 220 .036 

1 oz. rolls @ .16 per lb 100 .01 

6^ ozs. layer cake @ .12 per lb 715 .049 

Tea @ .48 per lb .005 

2,505 .724 

RICE, like most of the other cereals, yields about 
1,600 calories to the pound. Its chief food value is" in 
its carbohydrate — starch. The highly polished rice 
that we usually see in the market is not so good a food 
as the "cured" or brown rice. The polished rice has 
the bran removed and with it much of its mineral mat- 
ter. Very often talcs are used to whiten it. Rice is 
low in protein, fat, and ash, and, when used, should be 
combined with other foods that are rich in those nutri- 
ents, milk, eggs, or cheese, for instance. 

In countries like China and Japan where rice forms 
a large part of the diet, peas and Soya beans are used 



LIVING ON leVz CENTS A MEAL 123 

a great deal. They both contain a good percentage of 
protein. A diet of polished rice only, continued for a 
period of time, is said to cause a disease called beri- 
beri. 

TUESDAY 
BREAKFAST 

Baked Pork and Beans 

Bread and Butter 

Coffee 

Calories Cost 

6 ozs. beans @ .15 per lb 600 .056 

4 ozs. pork (medium fat) @ .50 per lb 700 .12 

3 ozs. bread @ .08 per lb 228 .015 

% oz. butter @ .62 per lb 169 .028 

1 oz. sugar @ .10 per lb 116 .006 

^2 oz. evapprated milk @ .16 per lb 24 .005 

11 ozs. fresh milk @ .11 per qt 220 .036 

Coffee @ .37 per lb .015 

2,057 lil 

TUESDAY 
LUNCH 

Vegetable Soup 

Cold Roast Beef Sandwiches 

Bread and Butter 

Coffee Milk 

Soup: 

Calories Cost 

2 ozs. spaghetti @ .17 per lb 208 .024 

4 ozs. potatoes @ .05 per lb 80 .012 

2 ozs. string beans @ .10 per lb 23 .012 

2 ozs. carrots @ .04 per lb 20 .005 

Total for soup 331 .053 

^ ^ ^ 

Domestic trouble seldom comes near a good-na- 
tured good cook. 

n n n 



124 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

Calories Cost 

6 ozs. boiled beef @ .49 per lb 336 .184 

2 ozs. bread @ .08 per lb 152 .01 

1 oz. dairy butter @ .62 per lb 225 .039 

1 oz. sugar @ .10 per lb. 116 .006 

Yi oz. evaporated milk @ .16 per lb 25 .005 

5 ozs. (5) rolls @ .10 per doz 460 .05 

1 oz. mustard @ .26 per lb .016 

11 ozs. milk @ .11 per qt 220 .036 

Coffee @ .37 per lb .015 

1,865 .414 

Our vegetable soup was made from the broth of our 
boiled dinner yesterday. If we had thrown this broth 
in the sink, there would have been a lot of valuable 
nutrients wasted in the form of mineral salts. 

Very often the food that we waste is the very food 
that we need to keep us healthy. 

TUESDAY 
DINNER 

Left-over Beef 

with 

Hot Gravy and Onions 

Boiled Potatoes 

Bread and Butter 

Sliced Tomatoes with Salad Dressing 

Coffee 

Calories Cost 

14 ozs. beef @ .49 per lb 784 .43 

12 ozs. potatoes @ .05 per lb 240 .038 

2 ozs. onions @ .14 per lb 26 .017 

3J^ ozs, bread @ .08 per lb 266 .017 

^ oz. dairy butter @ .62 per lb 112 .019 

8 ozs. fresh tomatoes @ .20 per lb 53 .10 

Yz oz. salad dressing @ .80 per lb 50 .025 

11 ozs. fresh milk @ .11 per qt 220 .036 

Yi oz. evaporated milk @ .16 per lb 25 .005 

6 ozs. layer cake @ .16 per lb 660 .06 

Coffee @ .37 per lb. 015 

2,436 .762 



LIVING ON leVz CENTS A MEAL 125 

Both the beef and potatoes were cut up and warmed 
over in a gravy made from drippings and thickened 
with flour. Onions were added to give flavor. This 
made a very tasty dish and was an easy dinner to pre- 
pare. The whole dinner cost Htle more than 25 cents 
for each person. The meat alone cost more than half 
the price of the whole dinner and yielded little more 
than one-third of the total calories. 



WEDNESDAY 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed Rhubarb 

Grape Nuts with Milk 

Buttered Toast 

Coffee 

Calories Cost 

10 ozs. stewed rhubarb @ .08 per lb 338 .055 

Yz oz. grape nuts @ .12 per lb 52 .004 

7 ozs, bread @ .08 per lb 536 .035 

\y2 ozs. dairy butter @ .62 per lb 337 .058 

% oz. sugar @ .10 per lb 87 .005 

11 ozs. fresh milk @ .11 per qt 220 .036 

54 oz. evaporated milk @ .16 per lb 12 .002 

Coffee @ .32 per lb .02 

1,582 ,215 

The rhubarb cost eight cents a pound after being 
trimmed. The above named portion contained about 
2^ ounces of sugar, the cost and nutritive value o£ 
which is included in the table. Rhubarb is about 94^ 
water, but its chief food value is its acids and mineral 
matter (ash). Almost 12^ per cent of the rhubarb 
solids is ash. Rhubarb is a natural laxative, and, when 
cooked, is easily digested. However, like any other 
good food, if eaten to excess it may cause trouble. 



126 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

WEDNESDAY 
DINNER 

Baked Salmon Loaf 

Sliced Tomatoes with Salad Dressing 

Canned Corn — Creamed 

Bread Pudding 

Iced Tea 

Salmon Loaf: 

Calories Coat 

12 ozs. pink salmon @ .17 per lb. can 644 .127 

12 ozs. potatoes @ .05 per lb 240 .037 

2 ozs. crackers (Uneedas) @ .32 per lb. . . 240 .04 

1 oz. butter @ .62 per lb 225 .039 

Total for salmon loaf 1,349 .243 

Creamed Corn: 

13 ozs. canned corn @ .15 a can 369 .103 

1 oz. butter @ .62 per lb 225 .039 

4 ozs. milk @ .11 per qt 80 .014 

674 .156 

6 ozs. fresh tomatoes @ .20 per lb 53 .10 

% oz. salad dressing @ .80 per lb 50 .025 

Bread pudding 596 .078 

Iced tea 207 .069 

(Used 2 lemons, cost .03 each) 

Total for the dinner 2,929 .671 

The salmon loaf was made with pink salmon and 
boiled potatoes mixed together, then some butter and 
broken crackers spread over the top. It was baked 
in the oven till hot through. Package crackers, which 
come very expensive, were used. Small nieces of 
bread or bread crumbs would have answered the pur- 
pose just as well and would have been very much 
cheaper. 

Canned com comes very expensive, ten cents worth 
yielding only 369 calories. Cans bulged out at the end 



LIVING ON leVz CENTS A MEAL 127 

are usually bad, while concave (pressed in) ends denote 
a vacuum and usually indicate well-preserved contents. 

To-day's dinner was eaten late in the afternoon, and 
we had supper later in the evening. 

Irregular meal hours are a very fruitful cause of 

indigestion. 

WEDNESDAY 
SUPPER 

Cheese Sandwiches 

Ice Cream and Cake 

Bananas 

Cocoa with Milk 

Cheese Sandwiches: 

Calories Cost 

4 02S. cheese @ .42 per lb 540 .105 

8 ozs. bread @ .08 per lb 598 .04 

1 oz. mustard @ .26 per lb. .016 

1 oz. butter @ .62 per lb 225 .039 

Total for 5 sandwiches 1,363 .200 

% oz. cocoa @ .40 per lb 72 .012 

2 ozs. sugar @ .10 per lb 232 .012 

% oz. evaporated milk @ .16 per lb 25 .005 

11 ozs. fresh milk @ .11 per qt 220 .036 

12 ozs. ice cream (1 pt.) @ .30 per pt 550 .30 

lOK ozs. (2) bananas (3 for .10) 200 .066 

6 ozs. chocolate cake @ .16 per lb 660 .06 

3,322 .691 

This was a good substantial meal, over 1,000 calo- 
ries for each person. The pint of ice cream cost almost 
half as much as the whole meal. 

THURSDAY 
BREAKFAST 

Stewed Rhubarb 

Oatmeal with Milk 

Buttered Toast 

Coffee 



128 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

Calories Cost 

4 ozs. stewed rhubarb @ .08 per lb 169 .027 

2 ozs. oatmeal @ .08 per lb 230 .01 

4 ozs. bread @ .08 per lb 304 .02 

1 oz. butter @ .62 per lb 225 .039 

1% ozs. sugar @ .10 per lb 174 .009 

1 oz. evaporated milk @ .16 per lb 49 .01 

11 ozs. fresh milk @ .11 per qt 220 .036 

Coffee @ .37 per lb .015 

ijil .166 

THURSDAY 
LUNCH 

Canned Salmon 

with 

Salad Dressing 

Baked Potatoes 

Bread and Butter 

Coffee 

Calories Cost 

12 ozs. potatoes @ .05 per lb 240 .037 

4 ozs. canned salmon @ .17 per lb 228 .042 

4 ozs. bread @ .08 per lb 304 .02 

54 oz. butter @ .62 per lb 112 .019 

1 oz. sugar @ .10 per lb 116 .006 

% oz. evaporated milk @ .16 per lb 25 .005 

11 ozs. fresh milk @ .11 per qt 220 .036 

5^ oz. salad dressing @ .80 per lb 50 .025 

Coffee @ .37 per lb ... .01 

1,295 .200 

CANNED SALMON is a cheap food because sal- 
mon are plentiful and easily caught. One pound of 
average canned salmon yields about 915 calories. It 
contains about 12 per cent fat and about 21 per cent 
protein, which is a higher percentage than is contained 
in average meat. Reckoning average canned salmon 
at 25 cents per pound, average cuts of beef would be 
more than twice as expensive at 50 cents per pound. 

One dollar's worth of each of the following foods 
would yield in total calories as follows : 



LIVING ON leVz CENTS A MEAL 129 

Calories 

Salmon @ 25 cents per pound would yield about 3,660 

Eggs @ 50 cents per dozen would yield about 1,920 

Milk @ 20 cents per quart would yield about 3,250 

Turkey @ 60 cents per pound would yield about 1,750 

Good steak @ 50 cents per pound would yield about.. 2,200 

THURSDAY 
DINNER 

Cold Roast Pork 

Fried Potatoes 

Bread and Butter 

Cake Apples 

Tea 

Calories Cost 
4 ozs. roast pork (from delicatessen store) 

@ $1.00 per lb 572 .25 

20 ozs. potatoes @ .05 per lb 400 .062 

2 ozs. bread @ .08 per lb 152 .01 

^A oz. butter @ .62 per lb 112 .019 

54 oz. evaporated milk @ .16 per lb 12 .002 

11 ozs. fresh milk @ .11 per qt 220 .036 

6 ozs. chocolate layer cake @ .16 per lb.. . . 660 .06 

8 ozs. (2) apples @ .02^/^ each 112 .05 

Tea @ .48 per lb .u .005 

2,240 .494 
FRIDAY 
BREAKFAST 

Sliced Oranges 

Buttered Toast 

Coffee 

Calories Cost 

10 ozs. (2) oranges @ 3 for .10 105 .066 

^14 ozs. bread @ .08 per lb 342 .022 

% oz. butter @ .62 per lb 112 .019 

1% ozs. sugar @ .10 per lb 174 .009 

1/4 oz. evaporated milk @ .16 per lb 12 .002 

11 ozs. whole milk @ .11 per qt 220 .036 

Coffee @ .37 per lb .02 

965 .174 

COFFEE has no food value. It is merely a stimu- 
lant. In certain cases its use is beneficial, but the 



130 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

average person would undoubtedly be better off with- 
out it. Persons troubled with indigestion or nervous- 
ness should not use tea or coffee. Our meals would 
have been reduced little more than one cent each if 
we had HQt used coffee or tea. 

FRIDAY 
LUNCH 

Medley Salad 

Radishes 

Bread and Butter 

Cake 

Iced Tea 

Medley Salad: 

Calories Cost 

12 ozs. fresh tomatoes @ .20 per lb 79 .15 

8 ozs, potatoes @ .05 per lb 160 .025 

2 ozs. lettuce @ .20 per lb 10 .02 

2 eggs @ .57 per doz 200 .095 

V/2 ozs. Mayonnaise dressing @ .80 per lb... 150 .075 

Total for salad 599 .355 

2 ozs. radishes @ .16 per lb 16 .02 

7 ozs. bread @ .OB per lb 532 ' .035 

1 oz. butter @ .62 per lb 225 .039 

V/z ozs. sugar @ .10 per lb 174 .009 

5 ozs. chocolate cake @ .16 per lb 550 .05 

11 ozs. whole milk @ .11 per qt 220 .036 

2% ozs. lemon juice @ .03 each 27 .03 

2,343 .584 

Radishes have very little nutriment, being more 
than 90% water; but they contain a good percentage 
of mineral matter, which constitutes their chief food 
value. 



LIVING ON leVz CENTS A MEAL 131 

FRIDAY 
DINNER 

Fresh Fish Fried 

Boiled Potatoes 

Bread and Butter 

Chocolate Pudding 

Tea 

Calories Cost 

16 02S. fish (whitings) @ .15 per lb 208 .15 

16 ozs. potatoes @ .05 per lb 320 .05 

3 ozs. bread @ .08 per lb 228 .015 

1 oz. butter @ .62 per lb 225 .039 

14 oz. sugar @ .10 per lb 53 .003 

% oz. evaporated milk @ .16 per lb 12 .002 

Chocolate Pudding: 

8 ozs. whole milk @ .11 per qt 160 .026 

1 oz. corn starch @ .10 per lb 100 .006 

54 oz. cocoa @ .40 per lb 72 .012 

2 ozs. sugar @ .10 per lb 232 .012 

2 ozs. Crisco @ .30 per lb 200* .038 

1 oz. flour @ .07 per lb 100 .004 

Tea @ .48 per lb .003 

1,915 .360 

• We have estimated that one-half of the Crisco was wasted in frying the 
fish. 

Only two persons shared in this dinner, one of our 
members being absent. 

TOTALS FOR WEEK 

SATURDAY 

Calories Cost 

Breakfast 1,250 .161 

Lunch 1,771 .530 

Dinner 2,618 .658 



5,639 $1,349 



132 FOOD EFFICIENCY 



SUNDAY 

Breakfast 2,653 .558 

Dinner 4,217 1.379 

Lunch 912 .600 



7.782 $2,537 
MONDAY 

Breakfast 1,448 .338 

Lunch 1,820 .351 

Dinner 2,505 .724 



5,773 $1,413 
TUESDAY 

Breakfast 2,057 .281 

Lunch 1,865 .414 

Dinner 2,436 .762 



6,358 $1,457 
WEDNESDAY 

Breakfast 1,582 .215 

Dinner 2,929 .671 

Supper 3,322 .691 



7,833 $1,577 
THURSDAY 

Breakfast 1,371 *166 

Lunch 1,295 .200 

Dinner 2,240 .494 



4,906 $ .860 
FRIDAY 

Breakfast 955 .174 

Lunch 2,443 *.584 

Dinner 1,915 .360 



5,323 $1,118 

* One of the members ate onty breakfast on Thursday and only lunch on 
Friday. 

Calories Cost 

Saturday 5,639 $1,349 

Sunday 7,782 2.537 

Monday 5,773 1.413 

Tuesday 6,358 1.457 

Wednesday 7,833 1.577 

Thursday 4,905 .850 

Friday 5,323 1.118 

. I 

43,614 $10,311 



LIVING ON 16^ CENTS A MEAL 133 

If we consider 61 meals for this week we find the 
cost was 16^ cents per meal that yielded a little over 
700 calories. This would be approximately 50 cents 
per day per person, and at the same rate it would cost 
a family of five members about $17.50 for food for a 
week. This is not allowing anything for waste. 

Summer fruits and vegetables (fresh) are more ex- 
pensive than the canned goods at the rates the average 
city consumer pays. Two reasons for the high cost 
of fresh fruits and fresh summer vegetables and greens 
are: the waste on account of their perishable nature 
and their bulk. 

ASPARAGUS contains almost 94% water, so from 
a purely "calorific" basis it would be a very expensive 
food. But its ash is rich in chlorin and sodium, as 
also is the ash of beet and carrot. The ash of aspara- 
gus also contains a crystalline substance called "as- 
paragin," which is said to possess certain medicinal 
properties. 

K «e K 

Reserve some of your will power to clamp the brake 
of restraint on your appetite. 

If you must find fault, find it in yourself. 



T 



CHAPTER X 
Living on 16 Cents Per Meal 

HE following week's test was started at the end 
of September, 1919. Four people ate all their 
meals, and one person ate breakfast only. The five 
persons were: 

Age Weight 

Man 35 133 No. 1 

Woman 35 106 No. 2 

Woman 28 116 No. 3 

Boy 7 55 No. 4 

Woman 27 123 No. 5 

MONDAY 
BREAKFAST 

(5 People) 

Pork and Potato Hash 

Bread and Butter 

Coffee 

Calories Cost 

Hash 573 .071 

10 ozs. bread @ .10 per lb 760 .063 

2% ozs. butter @ .67 per lb 450 .084 

IVz ozs. sugar @ .11 per lb 290 .017 

2%, ozs. evaporated milk @ .16 per lb 122 .025 

22 ozs. whole milk @ .12 per qt 440 .082 

Coffee @ .50 per lb .03 

2.635 .372 

This hash was made from left-over roast pork, white 
potatoes, and sweet potatoes, all fried together. 

MONDAY 
DINNER 

(4 People}. 

Roast Pork 

(Warmed over in Hot Gravy) 

Boiled Potatoes 

Bread and Butter 

Tea 

134 



LIVING ON 16 CENTS A MEAL 135 

Calories Cost 

10 ozs. pork (medium fat) @ .32 per lb 1,750 .20 

24 ozs. white potatoes @ .60 per pk 480 .06 

9 ozs. bread @ .10 per lb 684 .056 

1 oz. butter @ .67 per lb 225 .042 

1 oz. sugar @ .11 per lb 116 .007 

22 ozs. whole milk @ .12 per qt , 440 .082 

Ceylon tea @ .48 per lb .01 

3,695 .457 

This dinner yielded about 900 calories per person, 
including the boy, and the cost was about 11 cents per 
person. 

MONDAY 
SUPPER 

(4 People) 

Noodle Soup 

Wheat Cakes with Syrup 

Bread and Butter 

Baked Blueberry Pudding 

Tea 

Calories Cost 

Noodle Soup 156 .034 

Wheat cakes 800 .138 

4 ozs. bread @ .10 per lb 304 .025 

1 oz. butter @ .67 per lb 225 .042 

1 oz. sugar @ .11 per lb 116 .007 

1 oz. Karo syrup @ .20 per lb 80 .012 

3% ozs. corn syrup @ .16 per lb 245 .035 

Blueberry pudding 622 .062 

12 ozs. whole milk @ .12 per qt 240 .045 

Tea (Ceylon) @ .48 per lb .02 

2,788 .420 

The noodle soup was made by cooking two ounces 
of noodles in some left-over meat broth. The wheat 
cakes were made from four ounces white flour, 6 
ounces milk, 1 ounce butter, and one egg. 

The blueberry pudding was made from 1 piece of 
stale blueberry pie, 3 ounces bread, 2 ounces sugar. 



136 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

4 ounces milk, and 1 ounce butter, baked in the oven. 

Only one-half of this pudding was included in the 
above meal. 

Calories Cost 

For breakfast 5 persons 2,635 $ .372 

For dinner 4 persons 3,695 .457 

For supper 4 persons 2,788 .420 

In evening, 8 ounces buttermilk 82 .055 

Totals for the day 9,200 $1,304 



TUESDAY 
BREAKFAST 

(5 People) 

Oatmeal with Milk 

Buttered Toast 

Coffee 

Calories Cost 

4 02S. oatmeal @ .08 per lb 460 .02 

9 02s. bread @ .10 per lb 684 .056 

2 ozs. butter @ .67 per lb 450 .084 

3 ozs. sugar @ .11 per lb 348 .021 

ZYi ozs. evaporated milk @ .16 per lb 122 .025 

22 ozs. whole milk @ .12 per qt 440 .082 

y2 oz. cane syrup @ .20 per lb 40 .007 

Coffee @ .50 per lb .03 

2,544 .325 

A very light breakfast for five people, about 500 
calories each, and the cost was a little over six cents 
each. The large portion of oatmeal was responsible 
for the cheapness of this meal. The boy was especially 
fond of oatmeal. 

Food is the ladder to success. Eat the right food 
to climb high. 



LIVING ON 16 CENTS A MEAL 137 

TUESDAY 
LUNCH 

(4 People) 

Cold Roast Pork 

Fried Potatoes Horse Radish 

Hot Biscuits 

with 

Butter and Karo Syrup 

Apple Pie 

Tea 

Calories Cost 

8 ozs. pork (medium fat) @ .32 per lb 1,200 .16 

12 ozs. potatoes @ .04 per lb 240 .03 

16 ozs. biscuits @ .01 each 1,600 .16 

1 oz. butter @ .67 per lb 225 .042 

% oz. sugar @ .11 per lb 58 .003 

Yz oz. evaporated milk @ .16 per lb 24 .005 

22 ozs. whole milk @ .12 per qt 440 .082 

Yz oz. corn syrup @ .16 per qt 35 .005 

Tea @ .48 per lb .01 

}4 oz, horse-radish 8 ozs. for .12 .008 

3 ozs. apple pie .40 for whole pie 300 .050 

4,082 .555 

This lunch made up for our small breakfast, for it 
averaged 1,000 calories to a person. 

TUESDAY 
DINNER 

(4 People) 

Rice Soup 

Fried Potatoes 

Cheese Sandwiches 

Biscuits with Butter and Syrup 

Blueberry Pudding 

Apple Pie 

Tea 

Calories Cost 

2 ozs. rice @ .16 per lb 200 .020 

8 ozs. potatoes @ .04 per lb 160 .020 

3 ozs. cheese @ .40 per lb 405 .075 

4 ozs. bread @ .10 per lb 304 .025 

Yz oz. evaporated milk @ .16 per lb 24 .005 

22 ozs. whole milk @ .12 per qt. 440 .082 



138 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

1 oz. catsup 16 .012 

3 ozs. corn syrup 210 .028 

8 ozs. biscuits @ .01 each 800 .08 

1 oz. sugar @ .10 per lb 116 .007 

10y2 ozs. apple pie 1,050 .20 

Pudding 622 .062 

Tea @ .48 per lb .01 

4,347 .626 

The rice soup was flavored with catsup, which gave 
it the flavor of a tomato soup. The potatoes were 
fried in bacon fat. No meat was used at this meal, but 
the three ounces of cheese were cheaper and more 
nutritious than a small steak. The pudding and pie 
were both left-over from yesterday. 

Lunch in Evening: 

Calories Cost 

8 oz. (2) apples 112 .06 

4 ozs. buttermilk 42 .014 



154 .074 



Total for Tuesday: 



Breakfast 2,544 .555 

Lunch 4,082 .325 

Dinner 4,347 .626 

Lunch— Evening 154 .074 

Totals for the day 11,127 $1,580 



WEDNESDAY 
BREAKFAST 

(5 People) 

Boston Baked Beans and Pork 

Biscuits with Syrup 

Bread and Butter 

Coffee 



LIVING ON 16 CENTS A MEAL 139 

Calories Cost 

8 ozs. beans @ .16 per lb 800 .08 

4 ozs. fat pork @ .48 per lb 800 .12 

1 oz. syrup @ .16 per lb 70 .01 

3 ozs. bread @ .10 per lb 228 .019 

5 ozs. biscuits @ .01 each 500 .05 

Yi oz. butter @ .67 per lb 112 .021 

1 oz. sugar @ .11 per lb 116 .007 

54 oz. evaoorated milk @ .16 per lb 24 .005 

22 ozs. whole milk @ .12 per qt 440 .082 

Coffee @ .50 per lb .05 

3,090 .444 

WEDNESDAY 
DINNER 

(4 People— No. 5 Out) 

Steak and Onions 

Fried Potatoes (Sweet and White) 

Fresh Beets 

Bread and Butter 

Apple Pie 

Tea 

Calories Cost 
16 ozs. steak sirloin (medium fat) 

@ .59 per lb 1,100 .590 

18 ozs. potatoes, white @ .04 per lb 360 .045 

12 ozs, potatoes, sweet @ .06 per lb 348 .045 

5 ozs. onions @ .12 per lb 65 .037 

11 ozs. beets, fresh @ .05 per lb 115 .035 

4 ozs. bread @ .10 per lb 304 .025 

V/z ozs. butter @ .67 per lb 337 .063 

1 oz. sugar @ .11 per lb 116 .007 

54 oz. evaporated milk @ .16 per lb 24 .005 

22 ozs. whole milk @ .12 per qt 440 .082 

854 ozs. apple pie 850 .18 

1 oz. corn syrup @ .16 per lb 70 .01 

Tea @ .48 per lb .02 

4,129 $1,144 

^ •^ ^ 

Smoke out the flies with sulphur. 

W^ ^ ^ 



140 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

WEDNESDAY 
SUPPER 

(4 People) 

Hash 

Bread and Butter 

Buns Cake 

Tea 

Calories Cost 

4 ozs. left-over steak 275 .15 

4 ozs. sweet potatoes 116 .025 

3 ozs. white potatoes 60 .007 

1 oz. beans 100 .01 

551 .192 

(All made from left-overs and 
warmed together) 

4 ozs. bread @ .10 per lb 304 .025 

1^ ozs. butter @ .67 per lb 337 .063 

Yi oz. sugar @ .11 per lb 58 .004 

6 ozs, buns @ .01 each 600 .06 

8 ozs. cookies @ J^ cent each 320 .04 

22 ozs. whole milk @ .12 per qt 440 .082 

Tea®. 48 per lb .015 

2,710 .481 

To-day's meals for four people yielded a total of 
almost 10,000 calories and cost about $2.09. This 
would be about 764 calories to a meal that cost 16 
cents. 

THURSDAY 
BREAKFAST 

(5 People) 

Apple Sauce 

Cream of Wheat, Top Milk 

Buttered Toast 

Coffee 

Calories Cost 

3 ozs. apple sauce 135 .03 

3 ozs. cream of wheat 300 .03 

10 ozs. bread @ .10 per lb = ... 760 .063 

154 ozs. butter @ .67 per lb 337 .063 

3 ozs. sugar @ .11 per lb 348 .021 



LIVING ON 16 CENTS A MEAL 141 

1 oz. evaporated milk @ .16 per lb 49 .01 

22 ozs. whole milk @ .12 per qt 440 .082 

Coffee @ .50 per lb .03 

2,369 .329 

THURSDAY 

DINNER 

(4 People— No. 5 Out) 

Boiled Dinner 

Bread and Butter 

Tapioca Pudding 

Tea 

Calories Cost 

19 ozs. boiling beef @ .40 per lb 1,140 .475 

16 ozs. cabbage @ .05 per lb 125 .05 

5 ozs. carrots @ .12 per lb 50 .05 

5 ozs. string beans @ .12 per lb 55 .05 

2 ozs. onions @ .12 per lb 26 .015 

24 ozs. potatoes @ .04 per lb 480 .06 

2 ozs. bread @ .10 per lb 152 .012 

2 ozs. butter @ .67 per lb 250 .084 

1 oz. corn syrup @ .16 per lb 70 .01 

12 ozs. fresh beets @ .05 per lb 126 .037 

Tapioca pudding 783 .139 

16 ozs. whole milk (g| .12 per qt 325 .06 

3,582 $1,042 

THURSDAY 
SUPPER 

Frankfort Sausages 

Fresh Beets 
Bread and Butter 
Hot Johnny Cake 

with 

Butter and Syrup 

Ice Cream Tea 

Calories Cost 

12 ozs. Frankfort sausages @ .35 per lb 876 .25 

2 ozs. bread @ .10 per lb 152 .012 

114 ozs. butter @ .67 per lb 337 .063 

1 oz. sugar @ .11 per lb 116 .007 

% oz. evaporated milk @ .16 per lb 12 .002 

5 ozs. fresh beets @ .05 per lb 55 .017 

Johnny Cake 1,513 .197 



142 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

3 ozs. cane syrup @ .20 per lb 240 .037 

1 pint ice cream @ .33 per pint 550 .33 

Tea @ .48 per lb .01 

4 ozs. fresh milk 80 .015 

3,931 .940 

In to-day's boiled dinner the cabbage, carrots, string 
beans, onions, and potatoes were all cooked together. 

CABBAGE, which is the best known of our herba- 
ceous vegetables, is a good food, although not very nu- 
tritious, for about 90% of it is water. A very large per- 
centage of the cabbage solid is ash, and more than 
half of this ash is suboxide of potassium. (Kj O) 
Before cooking cabbage, it should be soaked, head 
down, for almost an hour in salt water with a little 
vinegar added. This will bring out any live bugs or 
worms that may be hidden in the leaves. To cook, it 
should be placed in boiling water and kept boiling till 
done. Young cabbage will cook in about half an hour, 
but old may require forty-five minutes. 

FRIDAY 
BREAKFAST 

(5 People) 

Sliced Peaches with Cream 

Shredded Wheat with Cream 

Bread and Butter 

Coffee 

Calories Cost 

2 ozs. shredded wheat @ .16 per lb 212 .02 

13 ozs. fresh peaches, 15 cents worth 156 .15 

7 ozs. bread @ .10 per lb 532 .044 

lYz ozs. butter @ .67 per lb 337 .063 

8 ozs. cream (half pint) .50 a pint 456 .25 

Coffee @ .50 per lb .03 

22 ozs. fresh milk @ .12 per pt 440 .082 

2.133 .639 



LIVING ON 16 CENTS A MEAL 143 

We used half a pint of cream for breakfast with our 
peaches, shredded wheat, and coffee. At 50 cents a 
pint it may be placed in the luxury class. Ten cents 
worth of milk at 15 cents a quart would yield about 
425 calories. Ten cents' worth of cream at 50 cents a 
pint would yield about 180 calories, or almost three 
times the cost of milk. 

FRIDAY 

DINNER 

Canned Salmon 

Fried Potatoes 

Baked Macaroni with Cheese 

Bread and Butter 

Fresh Beets 

Tapioca Pudding with Apple Sauce 

Coffee 

Calories Cost 
8 ozs. canned salmon (pink) @ .28 per lb... 456 .14 

25 ozs. potatoes @ .04 per lb 560 .07 

Baked macaroni and cheese 867 .14 

2 ozs. bread at .10 per lb 152 .012 

2 ozs. butter @ .67 per lb 250 .084 

IJ/^ ozs. sugar @ .11 per lb 174 .014 

8 ozs. beets @ .08 per lb 84 .04 

Tapioca pudding with apple sauce . . . 409 .079 

16 ozs. fresh milk @ .12 per qt 320 .06 

Coffee @ .So" per lb .02 

3,272 .659 

TAPIOCA, like most of the other starches, is very 
low in protein, but yields over 1,600 calories of energy 
to the pound. The cassava plant, from which tapioca 
starch is obtained, grows abundantly in the tropics. 
It is a bushy shrub and when full grown is from four 
to ten feet high. The roots, which contain the starch, 
are crushed into a pulp, the starch washed out and 
then dried on heated plates. Tapioca sometimes con- 
tains as high as 85% of starch. 



144 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

SAGO is another starch, and is obtained from the 
sago palm tree which grows in several tropical re- 
gions. The starch is usually taken from the tree when 
it is twelve to fifteen years old. The tree is chopped 
down, and cut into pieces and these are split length- 
wise. This is usually done just before the blossom 
appears when the tree is filled with the starchy pith. 
This pith, which is of a chessy consistency, is then 
scraped out, mixed with water and ground to a pulp. 
The pulp is then strained through a sieve to separate 
the cellulose and the coarser particles. The starch is 
allowed to settle out and is then washed several times 
and dried. This is known as sage flour. The pearl 
sago which we use for pudding is made by mixing this 
flour with water. It is granulated by passing through 
a sieve and then roasted to give it a translucent ap- 
pearance. 

FRIDAY 
SUPPER 

Canned Salmon 

Baked Macaroni with Potatoes 

(Left-overs warmed together) 

Catsup Bread and Butter 

Bread Pudding Tea 

Calories Cost 

8 02S. canned salmon @ .28 per lb 456 .140 

Left-over macaroni _. 289 .046 

8 ozs. potatoes @ .15 per lb 160 .005 

6 ozs. bread @ .10 a loaf 456 .037 

1 oz. butter @ .67 per lb 225 .042 

1^ ozs. sugar @ .10 per lb 174 .010 

2 ozs. syrup @ .24 per lb 150 .03 

2 ozs. catsup @ .18 for 12 ozs 33 .022 

11 ozs. milk @ .12 per qt 220 .08 

Bread pudding 488 .071 

Tea <g .48 per lb.. .010 

2,651 .493 



LIVING ON 16 CENTS A MEAL 145 

FRIDAY 

EVENING LUNCH 

Calories Cost 

4 ozs. apple (1) @ .05 each 55 .05 

3 ozs. peach (1) @ .025 each 28 .025 

1 pint ice cream @ .30 per pint 550 .30 

7 ozs. cake @ .20 per lb 735 .087 

1 qt. milk O .12 per qt 650 .12 

2,019 .582 

To-day's meals yielded about 10,075 calories and 
cost $2.37 or about 16 cents per meal. 

SATURDAY 
BREAKFAST 

(5 People) 

Stewed Primes 

Oatmeal with Milk 

Bread and Butter 

Coffee 

Calories Cost 
11 02S. stewed prunes @ .20 per lb 310 .040 

3 ozs. oatmeal @ .09 per lb 312 .017 

6 ozs. bread @ .10 per lb 456 .037 

2 ozs. butter @ .67 per lb 450 .084 

4 ozs. sugar @ .10 per lb 448 .025 

1% ozs. evaporated milk @ .08 a can 73 .015 

22 ozs. fresh milk @ .12 per qt 440 .08 

Coffee (gj .40 per lb .02 

2,489 .318 

IRON: 

The human body contains iron, and, as a certain 
amount is regularly thrown off, it is evident that the 
waste must be restored. Much of the food that we 
eat contains iron in some form, but there are some 
foods so low in iron that we would not get our re- 
quirements were we to try to live on them alone 
Numerous experiments along this line have been made 



146 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

with animals. Mice, for instance, have been fed on 
food containing little or no iron and have died within 
thirty-two days, while those receiving food containing 
iron gained in weight. Meat, fish, eggs, peas, beans, 
green vegetables, all contain a good percentage of iron. 
Among the greens, spinach is especially rich in iron. 
Milk and rice are low in iron. 

SATURDAY 
DINNER 

(4 People) 
Fried Pork Chops 

with 

Onions and Gravy 

Fried Potatoes 

Fresh Beets 

Bread Biscuits 

Bread Pudding 

Tea 

Calories Cost 
16J4 ozs, pork chops (medium fat) 

@ .48 per lb 1,310 .495 

38 ozs. potatoes @ .60 per pk 760 .095 

2 ozs. onions @ .10 per lb 26 .012 

4 ozs. bread @ .10 per lb 304 .025 

1 oz. butter @ .67 per lb 225 .042 

IJ^ ozs. sugar @ .11 per lb 174 .01 

7 ozs. biscuits @ .12 per doz 560 .07 

5 ozs. beets @ .04 per lb 50 .012 

H ozs. milk @ .12 per qt 220 .04 

Bread pudding 480 071 

Tea @ .43 per lb 01 

4,109 .882 

SATURDAY 
SUPPER 

(4 People) 

Bean Soup 

Beef Hash with Potatoes 

Bread Biscuits 

Cake Tea 

Bean soup made with: 



LIVING ON 16 CENTS A MEAL 147 

Calories Cost 

4 02S. beans @ .16 per lb 400 .04 

8 02S. potatoes @ .60 per pk .^ 160 .02 

2 02S. onions @ .10 per lb ." 26 .012 

Left-over broth used for stock. 

4 ozs. beef @ .54 per lb 200 .135 

16 ozs. potatoes @ .60 per pk 320 .04 

4 ozs. biscuits @ .12 per doz 320 .04 

3 ozs. bread @ .10 per lb 228 .02 

1% ozs. butter @ .67 per lb 337 .063 

1% ozs. sugar @ .11 per lb 174 .01 

2 ozs. catsup 33 .05 

12 ozs. cake @ .20 per lb 1,200 .15 

11 ozs. milk @ .12 per qt 220 .04 

Tea © .48 per lb .01 

3.618 .630 

SATURDAY 
EVENING LUNCH 

(Consumed by 3 people) 

Calories Cost 

6 ozs. apples 84 .05 

4 ozs. cake 400 .06 

12 ozs. milk 240 .09 

724 .20 

It may be noticed that we used two quarts of milk 
a day. A good share of this was consumed by the boy. 
Milk is rich in the mineral elements that the body 
must have, and that are especially needed by the grow- 
ing child. Roughly, in every five quarts of milk there 
is about one ounce of ash, and almost one-quarter o^ 
this ash is lime. 

" " " 

Every time you find a fault in others you add a 
little more of it to your own stock. 

•I •! «? 



148 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

SUNDAY 
BREAKFAST 

(5 People) 

Sliced Oranges 

Sliced Bananas with Milk 

Bacon and Eggs 

Bread and Butter 

Coffee 

Calories Cost 

20 ozs. oranges (3) @ .06 each 210 .18 

5 02S. bananas (1) @ .03 each 95 .15 

10 ozs. bacon @ .64 per lb 1,750 .40 

5 ozs. eggs @ .84 per doz 500 .35 

8 ozs. bread @ .10 per lb 608 .05 

2 ozs. butter @ .67 per lb 250 .084 

3 ozs. sugar @ .11 per lb 348 .020 

2 ozs. evaporated milk @ .16 per lb 98 .020 

11 ozs. milk @ .12 per qt 220 .04 

Coffee ® .40 per lb .02 

4,079 $1,314 

This was a good substantial breakfast. It cost a 
little over 26 cents per person and yielded almost 800 
calories per person. 

SUNDAY 
DINNER 

(5 People) 
Roast Veal with Dressing 

Roast Potatoes 

Mashed Turnips with Gravy 

Steamed St. James Pudding 

Bread and Butter 

Tea 

Calories Cost 

16 ozs. veal @ .52 per lb 1,240 .52 

20 ozs. potatoes © .64 per pk 400 .05 

14 ozs. turnips @ .08 per lb 112 .07 

456 .06 

Dressing: 

Calories Cost 

4 ozs. bread 306 .02 

1 oz. onion 12 .005 



LIVING ON 16 CENTS A MEAL 149 

2 ozs. chopped apple 28 .015 

54 oz. chopped suet 110 .01 

Seasoning .01 

456 .06 

6 028. bread @ .10 per lb 456 .038 

1% ozs. butter @ .67 per lb 337 .063 

2 ozs. sugar @ .11 per lb 232 .014 

1 qt. milk @ .12 per qt 650 .12 

St. James (Steamed) Pudding 1,240 .174 

Calories Cost 

5 ozs. flour 500 .025 

3 ozs. molasses 210 .03 5,123 $1,101 

4 ozs. raisins 360 .055 

1 egg 90 .05 

4 ozs. mUk 80 .014 

1,240 .174 

EVENING LUNCH 

Calories Cost 

Ice cream — 1 quart 1,100 .66 

2 apples 104 .08 

1,204 .74 

Turnips, although not high in fuel value, are never- 
theless a good food. Ruta-bagas, which are very simi- 
lar to turnips, have slightly more ash, vs^hich is of 
practically the same nature in both turnips and ruta- 
bagas. The latter contain a little more iron than 
turnips do. One of the favorite ways to cook turnips 
is to boil them. They should be peeled and sliced and 
placed in boiling water and cooked until tender. Over- 
cooking gives them a strong flavor. The white sum- 
mer turnips will cook in half an hour, but the winter 
turnips will require three-quarters to one hour. A 
wooden masher is best, as metal is apt to give them an 
unpleasant taste. 



150 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

The cost of this Sunday dinner averaged 22 cents 
for each person. It yielded a total of 5,123 calories, or 
more than 1,000 for each person. 

TOTALS FOR WEEK 

MONDAY: 

Calories Cost 

Breakfast (5 people) 2,635 .372 

Dinner (4 people) 3,695 .457 

Supper (4 people) 2,788 .42 

Evening Lunch 82 .055 



9.200 $1,304 
TUESDAY: 

Breakfast (5 people) 2,544 .325 

Lunch (4 people) 4,082 .555 

Dinner (4 people) 4,347 .626 

Evening Lunch 154 .074 

11,127 $1,580 
WEDNESDAY: 

Breakfast (5 people) 3,090 .444 

Dinner (4 people) 4,129 1.144 

Supper (4 people) 2,710 .481 

9,929 $2,069 
THURSDAY: 

Breakfast (5 people) 2,369 .329 

Dinner (4 people) 3,582 1.042 

Dinner (4 people) 3,931 .940 

9,882 $2,301 

FRIDAY: 

Breakfast (5 people) 2,133 .639 

Dinner (4 people) 3,272 .659 

Supper (4 people) 2,651 .493 

Evening Lunch 2,019 .582 

10,075 $2,373 



LIVING ON 16 CENTS A MEAL 111 

SATURDAY: 

Breakfast (5 people) 2,459 .318 

Dinner (4 people) 4,109 .882 

Supper (4 people) 3,618 .630 

Evening Lunch (3 people) 724 .20 

10,940 $2,030 
SUNDAY: 

Breakfast (5 people) 4,079 1.314 

Dinner (5 people) 5,123 1.101 

Evening Lunch (5 people) 1,204 .74 

10,406 $3,155 

Number 

Calories Cost of Meals 

Mbnday 9,200 $ 1.304 13 

Tuesday 11,127 1.580 13 

Wednesday 9,929 2.069 13 

Thursday 9,832 2.30J 13 

Friday 10,075 2,373 13 

Saturday 10,940 2.030 13 

Sunday 10,406 3.155 15 

Totals for week 71,559 $14,812 93 

This makes about 769 calories to a meal, and the 
cost is about 16 cents per meal. 

These calorific values correspond reasonably well 
with recognized standards, which goes to show that 
while our method of figuring food values is crude, our 
results are not very far out of the way. 

PUDDINGS 
ADAM AND EVE PUDDING: 

Mix together ^ pound bread crumbs or crackers 
moistened with milk; % pound beef suet chopped 
fine; % pound sugar, 3 eggs; the juice of 1 lemon; 
2 ounces sultana raisins; ^ pound apples peeled and 
cut up. 



152 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

Put the mixture into a mould, greased with butter, 
and either steam or bake in the oven, standing the 
mould upright in a tin containing a little water. Bake 
for 1^/2 hours and serve with any suitable saucc. 

APPLE-TAPIOCA PUDDING: 

Put 4 ounces tapioca with milk into a pie dish, add 
sugar to taste. Bake in the oven for thirty minutes. 
Peel, core and slice 6 apples, add a small amount of 
water and sugar, and stew them until tender. Then 
fill a pie dish with alternate layers of tapioca and 
apples. Put a few bits of butter on the top, and some 
grated nutmeg. Bake in the oven until done. 

GOLDEN PUDDING: 

3 ounces suet finely minced, 3 ounces stale bread 
crushed fine, mixed with 3 ounces sugar and 3 ounces 
marmalade. Add 1 egg beaten in half a cup of milk. 
Butter a pudding basin, and tie a pudding cloth over 
it. Set this in a dish of water and boil for three hours. 

MARMALADE PUDDING: 

Line a buttered dish with some stiff pie paste. Then 
beat together yolks of 4 eggs, 4 ounces melted butter 
and one teacupful of marmalade. Put this into the 
dish with the pie paste and bake in a slow oven. Serve 
either hot or cold. 

STEAMED RAISIN PUDDING: 

4 ounces crushed bread crumbs; 4 ounces beef suet 
cut very fine ; 4 ounces seeded raisins and 4 ounces of 



PUDDINGS 153 

flour, partly baked. Put these all into a mixing dish, 
and grate over a little nutmeg. Then add 1 ounce of 
citron cut up small, a little ginger, and 2 ounces of 
sugar. Mix these thoroughly and make them into a 
stiff paste by adding two well-beaten eggs; a small 
teaspoonful of vanilla or other flavoring and a little 
milk. Steam for about 3% hours. 

BAKED RAISIN PUDDING: 

Put 4 ounces of drippings in a pan or pudding dish, 
melt it and work in 8 ounces of flour to which has 
been added % teaspoonful baking powder ; add y^ tea- 
spoonful of ground allspice ; % ounce of candied lemon 
peel cut up small; 2 ounces brown sugar and three 
of milk and add this to the mixture. Mix well together 
and bake in a moderate oven for one hour. 

ALMOND KOSHER PUDDING: 

Blanch and pound 4 ounces of sweet almonds and 
three or four bitter ones, adding a teaspoonful of water 
to prevent them oiling. Put them into a basin with 
% pound of powdered sugar, mixing in 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of rose water and the well-beaten yolks of 4 eggs 
and whites of three. Beat this mixture well for 10 
minutes, then pour it into a buttered mould or basin. 
Bake for half an hour in a quick oven. 

Serve with lemon-flavored syrup colored with 
cochineal. 

APPLE AND ALMOND PUDDING (BAKED): 

Carefully remove the peel and core of about 6 apples 



154 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

and cook in a saucepan with as little water as possible. 
Put this in a buttered basin or mould and let it cool. 
Chop fine about 3 ounces of blanched almonds, and 
mix them with 3 ounces of brown sugar. Beat the 
yolks of 3 eggs and add the juice of half a lemon and 
a little of the grated rind, also a spoonful of flour to 
thicken it. Then add the whites of the 3 eggs well 
beaten and pour the whole mixture over the apples. 

Bake in a moderate oven for about half an hour. 
When done turn it out in a suitable dish and serve 
with sweet cream. 

ECONOMY PUDDING: 

Have a pudding dish well buttered. Put in a layer 
of stale bread crumbs crushed fane. Next put a layer 
of apples chopped fine. Sprinkle over this some brown 
sugar ; a little ground allspice, and a few bits of butter. 
Squeeze the juice of an orange and pour over the 
pudding, adding enough water to moisten sufficiently. 
Bits of butter and part of the grated rind of the orange 
may be spread over the top. Bake in the oven until 
brown. 

STEAMED FRUIT PUDDING: 

Have a pudding dish well buttered. Put in a layer 
of pie paste, then a thin layer of crushed strawberries. 
Sprinkle this well with sugar and add another layer of 
paste, then a layer of crushed peaches or other fresh 
fruit and again sprinkle with sugar. Then another 
layer of paste and more fruit, cherries, dates, figs, 
raisins, apples. Sprinkle each layer of fruit well with 



PUDDINGS 155 

sugar and have a layer of paste on top. Set the dish 
in a larger dish of water and steam for at least three 
hours. Or, it may also be baked in the oven for about 
one hour. 
May be served with cream or any suitable sauce. 

TOAST PUDDING: 

Soak about 8 ounces Stale toast (about 6 slices) in 
water until soft. Then drain off as much of the water 
as possible, and mash the toast with a fork. Mix with 
this about 8 ounces raisins, a small cup of sugar; a 
little grated lemon or orange peel ; 1 small cup of flour 
and about 1 quart of milk. May be cooked in a double 
boiler or baked in the oven. 

VEGETABLE PUDDING: 

Put into a pudding dish "%. pound raisins, seedless, 
and 4 ounces finely shredded beef suet. Mix in a little 
sugar, salt, and grated nutmeg. Next add 4 ounces 
grated raw carrot and 4 ounces grated raw potato. 
Mix those together and cook in a double boiler for 
four hours. 



CHAPTER XI 

A TABLE OF FOOD VALUES 
COMPILED FROM U. S. BULLETIN No. 28 

RT?T?P TTriasVi Refuse Water Protein Fat Calories 

eiir.r— rresn p^ p^ p^ p^ p^^^^ 

As Purchased: 

Brisket, medium fat 23 42 12 22 73 

Chuck, lean 19 57 16 66 36 

medium fat 16 52 15 13 56 

Flank, lean 1 67 20 11 53 

medium fat 10 54 17 19 70 

Loin, lean 13 58 17 11 49 

" medium fat 13 53 16 18 65 

Neck, very lean 44 41 12 2 20 

lean 96 50 15 5 20 

medium fat 28 46 14 11 48 

Plate, very lean 37 43 13 6 31 

lean 17 54 13 16 56 

medium fat 17 43 13 24 80 

fat 16 38 12 33 103 

Ribs, very lean 23 54 19 3 30 

" lean 23 53 15 9 42 

" medium fat 21 44 14 21 72 

" fat 17 40 12 31 95 

Round, lean 8 64 19 7 42 

medium fat 7 61 19 13 65 

Shank, very lean 44 42 12 1 18 

lean 37 45 14 3 27 

medium fat 37 43 12 7 34 



BEEF ORGANS 












As Purchased: 












Brain 


. • • ■ • * • 


81 


9 


9 


35 


Heart 


6 


53 


15 


25 


83 


Kidney 


20 


63 


14 


2 


21 


Beef liver 


7 


66 
3 


20 
2 


3 

93 


35 


Marrow 




247 


Sweetbreads 


• • • • • • • 


71 


16 


12 


52 


Suet 




14 


4 


82 


221 


Tongue 


27 

156 


52 


14 


7 


34 



FOOD VALUES 



157 



BEEF-Canned \«^J«; "^''^^ ^^°*^'" 

As Purchased: 

Boiled beef 52 25 

Chili-con-carne 75 18 

Corned beef 52 26 

Dried beef 45 39 

Tripe 87 12 

VEAL— Fresh 
As Purchased: 

Breast, very lean 47 40 12 

lean 23 54 16 

medium fat 21 53 15 

Flank, medium fat 69 20 

Leg, lean 9 67 19 

" medium fat 14 60 16 

" cutlets 3 68 20 

LAMB— Fresh 
As Purchased: 

Breast or cnuck 19 50 16 

Leg, medium fat (hind) 17 53 16 

Shoulder 20 41 14 

MUTTON— Fresh 
As Purchased: 

Chuch, lean 20 52 15 

fat 17 34 12 

Leg, medium fat (hind) ... 18 51 15 

Shoulder, lean 25 50 14 

medium fat .... 23 48 14 

PORK— Fresh 
As Purchased: 

Chuck, ribs and shoulder.. 18 42 14 

Flank 18 49 15 

Ham, lean 9 59 25 

" medium fat 11 48 14 

" fat 13 34 10 

Head 68 14 4 

Head cheese 12 42 19 

Loin chops, medium fat 20 42 14 

fat 17 35 11 

Feet 74 14 4 

Heart 76 17 

Kidneys 80 16 



Fat 


Calories 


P.C. 


Per Ox. 


23 


89 


7 


32 


19 


80 


5 


60 


1 


17 


1 


18 


6 


35 


11 


46 


10 


57 


4 


33 


8 


39 


8 


44 


19 


68 


14 


54 


24 


79 


13 


51 


38 


113 


15 


56 


10 


42 


16 


57 


26 


84 


19 


67 


14 


66 


26 


84 


44 


127 


14 


41 


24 


85 


24 


80 


37 


112 


7 


23 


6 


37 


6 


31 



158 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

HAM— Smoked ^^^^'^ Water Protein Fat Caloriet 

P. C. P. C. P. C. p. C. Per Ot. 

As Purchased: 

Ham, lean 12 47 18 19 69 

" medium fat 14 35 14 39 105 

" fat 3 25 12 54 156 

" cooked 2 48 22 21 80 

Pig's tongue, pickled 59 18 20 73 

" feet, pickled 36 45 10 9 37 

Salt pork, fat 8 2 86 229 

" " lean 11 18 7 60 166 

Bacon, smoked 

lean 17 27 13 36 109 

" medium fat 8 17 9 62 175 

Ham, devilled 44 19 34 112 

Sausage, Aries 5 16 25 48 156 

Bologna 3 55 18 20 73 

Sausages 

" farmer 4 22 30 40 139 

" Frankfort 57 20 19 73 

" pork 40 13 44 133 

'• Wienerwurst 44 28 22 93 

POULTRY— As purchased: 

Chicken, broilers 42 44 13 1 18 

Fowls 26 47 14 12 48 

Goose, young 18 39 13 30 94 

Turkey 23 42 16 18 67 

FISH— Fresh 

As Purchased: 

Alewife, whole 50 38 10 2 18 

Bass, black, whole 55 35 9 8 13 

" red, whole 64 30 6, 2 8 

" sea, whole 56 35 9 2 11 

" striped, whole 55 35 8 1 13 

Blackfish, whole ..60 31 7 4 10 

" entrails removed 56 35 8 5 11 

Bluefish entrails removed.. 49 40 10 6 13 

Butterfish, whole 43 40 10 6 29 

Codfish, whole 53 39 8 2 10 

dressed 30 39 11 2 13 

steaks 9 72 17 5 21 

Eel, salt water 20 57 15 7 36 

Flounder, whole 62 33 5 5 7 

Haddock, entrails removed 51 40 8 2 10 

Hake, entrails removed 53 40 7 3 9 

Halibut steaks 18 62 15 4 29 



FOOD VALUES 



159 



FISH— Continued ^^^J'^ 

Herring, whole 43 

Mackeral, whole 45 

Perch, white, whole 63 

Pickeral pike, whole 47 

Porgy, whole 60 

Salmon, whole 35 

Shad, whole 50 

Shad roe 

Smelt, whole 42 

Mackerel, Spanish, whole . . 35 

Sturgeon 14 

Tomcod 60 

Trout 

brook 48 

" salmon or lake 48 

Weakfish, whole 52 

Whitefish 53 

FISH — Preserved or Canned: 
Cod, salt 25 

" boneless 2 

Herring, smoked 44 

Mackeral, salt 

" dressed 20 

Salmon, canned 

Sardines, canned 5 

Sturgeon 

Sturgeon, canine, pressed, 

Russian, as purchased... 32 



Water Protein 


Fat 


Calories 


P. C. 


P. C. 


P. C. 


Per Oi. 


42 


11 


4 


23 


40 


10 


4 


23 


28 


7 


2 


13 


42 


10 


2 


12 


30 


7 


2 


14 


41 


15 


9 


41 


35 


9 


5 


24 


71 


21 


4 


38 


46 


10 


1 


14 


45 


14 


6 


33 


67 


15 


2 


22 


33 


7 


2 


8 


78 


19 


2 


28 


40 


10 


6 


14 


37 


9 


5 


24 


38 


9 


1 


13 


32 


11 


3 


20 


40 


19 


4 


20 


55 


28 


3 


34 


19 


20 


9 


47 


68 


20 


9 


46 


35 


14 


21 


72 


63 


22 


12 


57 


54 


24 


12 


60 


38 


30 


20 


96 



57 



10 



13 



CAVIARE— Pressed, Russian 
As Purchased: 

Frogs legs 32 57 

SHELL FISH— Fresh 
As Purchased: 

Clams, shell, long 42 50 

round 67 28 

Crabs, whole 52 38 

Lobster, whole 62 31 

Mussels in shell 47 45 

Oysters in shell 81 16 

Scallops 80 

Terrapin 75 18 

Turtle, green, whole 76 19 



10 



13 



5 


6 


9 


2 


1 


4 


8 


9 


12 


9 


7 


9 


5 


6 


9 


1 


2 


3 


15 


1 


22 


5 


9 


8 


5 


1 






160 



FOOD EFFICIENCY 



SHELL FISH— Canned 

Clams, long, canned . . 
" round, canned 
Crabs, canned . . 
Lobsters, canned 
Oysters, canned 
Shrimp, canned . 

EGGS, hens, raw.. 



Refuse Water Protein Fat Calories 

P. C. P. C. P. C. p. C. Per Oz. 

9 1 

10 8 

16 1 

18 1 

9 2 

25 1 



DAIRY PRODUCTS Refuse 
P. C. 

Butter 

Buttermilk 

Cheese, American pale . . 

" California fiat. .. 

" Cheddar 

*' cottage 

*' cream 

" Dutch 

*' full cream 

*' Roquefort 

" Swiss 

Cream 

Koumiss 

Milk, condensed, sweet . . 

" evaporated, un- 
sweetened 

" skimmed 

" whole 

MISCELLANEOUS 

Gelatin 

Calf's foot jelly 

Lard, refined 

" unrefined 

Tallow, refined 

Oleomargarine 



11 

Water 
P. C. 

11 

91 

32 

34 

27 

72 

31 

35 

34 

39 

31 

74 

89 

27 



84 
83 
80 
78 
83 
71 

65 



12 



17 
18 
23 
24 
21 
33 

40 



Protein Fat 
P. C. P. C. 



14 
78 



VEGETABLE FOOD 
As Purchased: 
Barley, granulated . . . 
" meal and flour 

" pearled 

Buckwheat flour 

« " self- 
raising 



11 
12 
12 
14 

12 



1 

3 

29 

24 

28 

21 

5 

37 

26 

23 

28 

2 

3 

9 



91 
4 



7 

11 
9 
6 



85 
5 

36 

33 

37 

1 

58 

18 

34 

30 

35 

18 

2 

8 



68 10 9 
90 3 3 
87 3 4 



1 

100 
94 

100 
83 



Carbohy- 
drates 
P.C. 

4.8 
0.3 
4.5 
4.1 
4.3 
2.2 

2.4 
1.8 
1.3 
4.5 
5.4 
54.1 

11.2 
5.1 
5.0 



17.4 



79.8 
72.8 
77.8 
77.9 

73.4 



C*loriet 

Per Oz. 

225 

103 

128 

122 

134 

32 

161 

90 

122 

106 

126 

57 

15 

95 

49 
11 
20 



107 
25 
264 
251 
264 
221 



104 
103 
103 
101 



98 



FOOD VALUES 



161 











Carbohy 




Refuse Water Protein Fat 


drates 


Calorie* 


P. C 


. p. c. 


P. c. 


P. c. 


r. c. 


Per Or. 


Corn meal, granular . . . . 


13 


9 


1 


75.4 


103 


unbolted.. .. 


12 


8 


4 


74.0 


108 


Pop corn 


4 


11 


5 


78.7 


117 


Hominy 


12 


8 


6 


79.0 


103 


Oatmeal 


7 


16 


7 


67.5 


117 


Rolled oats 


8 


17 


7 


66.2 


115 


Rice 


12 


8 


3 


79.0 


101 


" flour 


9 


9 


6 


68.0 


105 


Rye flour 


11 


14 


2 


71.5 


104 


Wheat flour 


14 


8 


1 


76.4 


101 


Entire wheat flour . . . . 


11 


14 


1 


71.9 


104 


Wheat flour, gluten . . . , 


12 


14 


1 


71.1 


104 


" graham . . . 


13 


13 


2 


71.4 


104 


" self. 












raising 


11 


10 


1 


73.0 


100 


Farina 


11 


11 


1 


76.3 


105 


Shredded wheat 


10 


12 


1 


75.2 


106 


Macaroni 


10 


13 


9 


74.1 


104 


Noodles 


11 


12 


1 


75.6 


104 


Spaghetti 


11 


12 


4 


76.3 


104 


Vermicelli 


11 


11 


2 


72.0 


102 


BREAD, ROLLS, CAKE, 


Etc. 










Bread, brown 


44 


5 


1 


47.1 


65 


" cassava 


11 


9 


3 


79.0 


103 


corn 


39 


8 


5 


46.3 


75 


rye 


36 


10 


6 


53.2 


73 


Buns 


29 


6 


6 


57.3 


90 


" sugar 


30 


8 


7 


54.2 


90 


Bread, glutten 


38 


9 


1 


49.3 


73 


" graham . . .• 


36 


9 


2 


52.1 


76 


Biscuits, home-made . . . . 


33 


9 


3 


55.3 


81 


Rolls, French 


32 


9 


3 


55.7 


81 


plain 


25 


10 


4 


59.9 


92 


Bread, toasted 


24 


12 


2 


61.2 


89 


white 


35 


8 


1 


54.3 


76 


CRACKERS 












Crackers, butter 


7 


10 


10 


71.6 


121 


" cream 


7 


10 


12 


69.7 


124 


" graham 


5 


10 


9 


73.8 


122 


** Miscellan- 












eous 


7 


10 


9 


72.4 


119 


*• oatmeal 


6 


12 


11 


69.0 


123 



162 



FOOD EFFICIENCY 



CRACKERS— Continued 

" oyster 5 

" pretzels 10 

" soda 6 

Maple syrup 

Cake, bakers' 31 

" chocolate layer . . 21 

coffee 21 

" fruit 17 

" gingerbread 

Cookies, molasses 6 

Lady fingers IS 

Doughnuts 18 

Pie, apple 43 

" cream 32 

" lemon 47 

" mince 41 

" raisin 37 

Candy 

Honey 18 

Molasses cane 34 

Starch, arrowroot 2 

" com 

'• sago 12 

" tapioca 11 

Sugar, brown 

" granulated 

" maple 

" powdered 

VEGETABLES— As Purchased 

Artichokes 80 

Asparagus, fresh 94 

Beans, butter, fresh.. 50 29 

dried 13 

" New Mexican. .. 8 

lima 10 

" fresh 31 

" string, fresh .... 89 

Beets, fresh 70 

Cabbage 15 78 

" . . sprouts 62 34 

Carrots, fresh 88 

Cauliflower, fresh 92 

Celery, fresh 20 76 

Corn, green 61 29 

Cucumbers, average .... 95 

Greens, tiu-nip-salad .... 87 



11 


11 


70.5 


123 


10 


4 


72.8 


106 


10 


9 


73.1 


120 


, , 


, , 


71.4 


83 


6 


5 


56.9 


86 


6 


8 


64.1 


103 


7 


8 


63.2 


102 


6 


11 


64.1 


110 


, , 


, , 


63.5 


104 


7 


9 


75.7 


119 


9 


5 


70.6 


105 


7 


21 


53.1 


12S 


3 


10 


42.8 


79 


4 


11 


51.2 


95 


4 


10 


37.4 


74 


6 


12 


38.1 


63 


3 


11 


47.2 


88 




, 


96.0 


112 


4 


^ , 


81.2 


95 


5 


2 


76.7 


84 






97.5 


113 




^ 


90.0 


105 


9 


4 


78.1 


102 


4 


1 


88.0 


103 






95.0 


110 


^ , 


, , 


100.0 


116 


^ ^ 


, , 


95.2 


111 


•• 


♦• 


100.0 


U6 


3 




16.7 


23 


2 


, , 


3.3 


7 


5 




14.6 


23 


23 


2 


59.6 


100 


22 


1 


65.1 


IDS 


18 


2 


65.9 


102 


3 




9.9 


14 


2 




7.4 


11 


1 




7.7 


10 


1 




5.6 


8 


2 




1.7 


5 


1 




9.3 


13 


2 


1 


4.7 


9 


1 




3.3 


4 


1 




7.7 


11 


1 




3.1 


4 


4 


1 


6.3 


14 



FOOD VALUES 



163 



Refuse Water 

P. C. P. C. 

Leeks 15 78 

Lentils, dried 8 

Lettuce 95 

Mushrooms 88 

Onions, fresh 10 79 

" green 51 43 

Parsnips 20 66 

Peas, dried 10 

green 75 

Cowpeas 13 

Potatoes, raw 20 63 

" sweet, raw. . . 20 55 

Pumpkins 50 47 

Radishes 30 64 

Rhurbarb 40 57 

Ruta-bagas 30 62 

Sauerkraut 89 

Spinach, fresh 90 

Squash 50 44 

Tomatoes, fresh 7 

Turnips 30 63 

VEGETABLES— Canned 

Asparagus 94 

Beans, baked 69 

" string 94 

lima 80 

red kidney 73 

Brussels sprouts 94 

Corn, green 76 

Peas, green 85 

Pumpkins 92 

Succotash 76 

Tomatoes 94 

Catsup, tomato 83 

Horse radish 86 

Olives, green 27 42 

ripe 19 52 

Peppers, green 5 

red 5 

Pickles, cucimiber 93 

" mixed 94 

" spiced 77 

FRUITS— Fresh 
As Purchased 

Apples 25 63 







Carbohy- 




Protein Fat 


drates 


Calories 


P. C. 


P. c. 


P. C. 


Per Oz. 


1 


, , 


5.0 


8 


26 


1 


59.2 


101 


1 


, , 


2.5 


5 


4 




6.8 


13 


1 




4.9 


13 


1 




5.5 


7 


1 




10.8 


15 


25 


1 


62.0 


103 


7 


1 


16,9 


29 


21 


1 


60.8 


99.. 


2 




14.7 


19 


1 


1 


21.9 


29 


1 




2.6 


4 


1 




4.0 


6 






2.2 


4 


1 




6.0 


8 


2 




3.8 


8 


2 


4 


4.1 


7 


1 




9.0 


13 


13 


8 


3.9 


10 


1 




5.7 


8 


2 




2.8 


5 


7 




19.6 


38 


1 




3.8 


6 


4 




14.6 


23 


7 




18.5 


30 


2 




3.4 


6 


3 




19.0 


28 


4 




9.8 


16 


1 




6.7 


9 


4 




18.6 


28 


1 




4.0 


7 


2 




12.3 


17 


1 




10.5 


14 


1 


20 


8.5 


64 


1 


21 


25.9 


61 


16 


9 


63.0 


114 


9 


8 


70.0 


113 


1 




2.7 


4 


1 




4.0 


7 


, , 


, , 


20.7 


25 



10.8 



14 



164 



FOOD EFFICIENCY 



p. c. 

Apricot3 6 80 

Bananas 35 49 

Blackberries 86 

Cherries 5 77 

Cranberries 89 

Currants 85 

Figs 79 

Grapes 25 58 

Huckleberries 82 

Lemons 30 63 

" juice 

Muskmelon £0 45 

Oranges 27 63 

Peaches 18 73 

Pears 10 76 

Persimmons 65 

Pineapple 89 

Plums 5 75 

Prunes 6 76 

Raspberries, red 86 

black 84 

Strawberries 90 

Watermelons 59 38 



Refuse Water Protein Fat 
P. C. P. C. P. C. 
1 
1 

1 1 

1 1 



Carbohy- 
drates 
P. C. 

12.6 
14.3 
10.9 
15.9 

9.9 
12.8 
18.8 
14.4 
16.6 

5.9 

9.8 

4.6 

8.5 

7.7 
14.1 
12.7 
31.5 
19.1 
17.4 
12.6 
12.6 

7.4 

2.7 



Calories 
Per Oz. 

16 
19 
17 
22 
13 
17 
24 
20 
22 

9 
11 

6 
11 
10 
16 
39 
13 
23 
21 
16 
19 
11 

4 



FRUITS— dried 
As Purchased 

Apples 28 

Apricots 29 

Citron 19 

Currants 17 

Dates 10 14 

Figs 19 

Pears 17 

Prunes 15 19 

Raisins 10 13 

Raspberries 8 

FRUITS— Canned 

Apples, crab 42 

" sauce 61 

Blueberries 85 

Cherries 77 

Cherry Jelly 21 

Grape butter 37 

Marmalade 15 



66.1 
62.5 
78.1 
74.2 
70.6 
74.2 
72.9 
62.2 
68,5 
80^ 



54.4 
37.2 
12.8 
21.1 
77.2 
58.5 
84.5 



84 
81 
95 
93 
91 
92 

102 
74 
90 

107 



70 
46 
17 
26 
91 
70 
99 



FOOD VALUES 



165 



NUTS- ^^f"c'' 

Almonds, average 

" as purch'd.. 45 

Beechnuts 41 

Brazil, edible portion. . . . 
" as purchased... 50 

Chestnuts 

Cocoanuts, edible p't'n . . 
.., " ....as purch'd. 49 

*• milk 

" prepared . . . . 
Filberts edible portion . . 
" as purchased . 52 
Peanuts, average 

edible portion 

Peanuts, as purchased 25 

Peanut butter 

Pecans, edible portion . . 

" as purchased.. 46 

Walnuts, edible p'tion . . 

" as purched 73 

MISCELLANEOUS 

Chocolate 6 

Cocoa 5 

Cereal coffee 98 

Yeast, comp 65 

SOUPS— Home made 
Beef soup 



Water Protein Fat 
P. C. P. C. P. C. 

21 55 
12 
13 
17 
9 



5 
3 
2 
5 
3 
45 
14 
7 

93 
4 
4 
2 

9 
7 
2 
3 
2 
3 
1 



Bean soup 

Chicken soup . 
Clam Chowder 



SOUPS— Canned 

Bouillon 97 

Chicken gumbo 89 

'• soup 95 

" " average . . 94 

Mock Turtle 90 ■ 

Mulligatawny 89 

Oxtail 2 88 

Peas 87 

Tomato 90 

Vegetable 96 

Mincemeat 28 

" homemade.. .. 54 



6 
6 
3 

6 

16 

8 

26 
20 
29 
10 

5 
18 

5 



13 
22 

12 



30 
34 
67 
34 

5 
51 
26 

2 
57 
65 
31 

37 
29 
47 
71 
38 
64 
17 



49 
30 



93 4 .. 

84 3 1 

84 11 1 

89 2 1 



Carbohy- 
drates 
P. C. 

17.3 

9.5 

7.8 

7.0 

3.5 
35.4 
27.9 
14.3 

4.6 
31.5 
13.0 

6.2 

24.4 
18.5 
17.1 
15.3 

8.2 
13.0 

3.5 



30.3 

37.7 

1.4 

21.0 



1.1 
9.4 
2.4 
6.7 

.2 

4.7 

1.7 

1.5 

2.8 

5.7 

4.3 

7.6 

5.6 

.5 

60.2 

32.1 



Calories 
Per Oz. 

189 
104 
114 
204 
103 

70 
.173 

68 

10 
195 
206 

98 

173 
121 
177 
215 
115 
206 
55 



179 

145 

2 

39 



8 
18 
17 
12 



3 
12 

7 

6 
12 
11 
11 
15 
12 

4 
82 
61 



FOODS RICH IN PROTEIN 

BEEF, FRESH Per Cent. 

Lean beef 8 to 25 

Plate beef is from 8 to 15% protein, while the 

edible portion of very lean flank, chuck, loin, 

etc., has from 18 to 25% protein. 

Flank, fat, edible portion 12 to 14 

Beef heart 14 

Beef kidney 16 

Beef liver 20 

Beef tongue 19 

BEEF, CANNED 

Canned corn beef 25 

Canned dried beef 39 

Canned luncheon beef 27 

Canned Tripe 16 

BEEF, CORNED— PICKLED 

Brisket 14 to 18 

Flank 12 to 16 

Plate 11 to 13 

Rump 14 to 18 

Corned beef 14 to 15 

Tongue 8 to 17 

Tripe 7 to 18 

VEAL, FRESH 

Lean Veal 18 to 20 

Fat Veal 15 to 18 

LAMB AND MUTTON, FRESH 

Average lamb, edible portion 17 to 20 

Lean mutton 17 to 20 

Fat mutton 14 to 18 

PORK, FRESH 

Chuck, ribs and shoulder, edible portion 16 to 17 

Flank, edible portion 17 to 18 

Ham, fresh, lean, edible portion 24 to 25 

Ham, fresh, fat 10 to 12 

Pork head cheese 16 to 19 

166 



PROTEIN FOODS 167 

Per Cent. 

Chops, lean, edible portion 19 

Chops, fat 13 to 14 

Pork feet, edible portion 8 to 20 

PORK, PICKLED, SALTED, SMOKED 

Ham, smoked, lean, edible portion 19 to 20 

Pigs tongue, pickled, edible portion 17 to 18 

Bacoii, smoked, lean 14 to 15 

SAUSAGE 

Aries 23 to 26 

Bologna 11 to 20 

Frankfort 14 to 26 

Wienerwurst 22 

POULTRY AND GAME. FRESH 

Chicken, edible portion 19 to 25 

Fowls, edible portion 14 to 21 

Goose, young, edible portion 16 

Turkey, edible portion 18 to 24 

FISH, FRESH 

Alewife, edible portion 18 to 19 

Bass, black, edible portion 19 to 21 

Cod, whole, edible portion 15 to 16 

Cod steaks, edible portion 18 

Eels, salt water, edible portion 18 

Halibut, steaks, edible portion 18 

Mackerel, whole, edible portion 18 

Salmon, whole edible portion 19 to 25 

FISH, SALTED OR CURED 

as a rule, contain a higher percentage of protein 
than fresh fish because the percentage of 
water is lower. 

SHELL FISH 

Clams, long, in shell, edible portion 8 

Oysters, clams and mussels, edible portion.... 5 to 10 

Lobster, whole, edible portion 16 

EGGS, HENS 

Edible portion U to 17 



168 FOOD EFFICIENCY 



DAIRY PRODUCTS Per Cent. 

Cheese, American 28 to 29 

Cheese, cottage 20 

MUk 3 

CEREALS 

Oatmeals 16 

Rolled Oats 18 

Whole wheat flour 13 

Whole wheat gluten 14 

MISCELLANEOUS 

Beans, dried 22 

Lentils, dried 25 

Peas, dried 24 

Nuts 15 to 25 

Peanut butter 29 

Cocoa 21 

Gelatin 82 to 91 



FOODS HIGH IN CARBOHYDRATES 

Per Cent. 

Milk, condensed $4 

Most of the cereals, barley, wheat, corn, rye, 

buckwheat, etc., contain from 70 to 80% 

starch. 

Oats, rolled 66 

Rice 79 

Farina 76 

Shredded wheat 77 

Macaroni 75 

Spaghetti 76 

Noodles 75 

Vermicelli 72 

Bread, biscuit, rolls, crackers, etc 40 to 60 

Cake 50 to 60 

Pie 40 to 60 

Candy 86 

Honey 81 

Molasses ^ i..,.. ...... 69 

Arrowroot starch 
Cornstarch 

Manioca starch > 78 to 90 

Sago starch 
Tapioca 

Sugar, granulated 100 

Sugar, maple 74 

Syrup, maple 71 

Beans, dried 59 

Beans, lima, dried 65 

Lentils 59 

Peas, dried 62 

Potatoes, white 13 

Potatoes, sweet 27 

FRESH FRUITS AND BERRIES 

Apples 14 

Bananas 22 

Cherries 16 

Figs 18 

Grapes 19 

Huckleberries 16 

Plums 20 

169 



170 FOOD EFFICIENCY 



DRIED FRUITS Per Cent. 

Apples 66 

Apricots 62 

Citron 78 

Currants 74 

Dates 70 

Figs V 74 

Pears 72 

Prunes 73 

Raisins 7 J 

Preserves and jellies have a high percentage of 

Carbohydrates because they contain a large 

amount of sugar. 

Mince meat 60 



FOODS WITH A HIGH PERCENTAGE OF FAT 

BEEF, PORK, HAM, ETC. Per Cent. 

Beef, fat 22 to 60 

Mutton, fat 25 to 60 

Ham, fresh, fat 50 

Head cheese 33 

Pork chops, fat 44 

Fat pork as high as 90 

SAUSAGES 

Aries sausage 50 

Pork ., 44 

Wienerwurst 22 

YOUNG GOOSE, edible portion 36 

EGG YOLK S3 

DAIRY PRODUCTS 

Dairy butter 83 

Cheese, American 35 to 38 

Cheese, Crown Brand Cream 58 

Lard, refined 100 

Tallow, refined 100 

Oleomargarine 83 

Doughnuts 21 

Potato chips, cooked 39 

NUTS 

Almonds, edible portion 54 

Beechnuts, edible portion 57 

Brazil Nuts, edible portion 66 

Cocoanuts, edible portion 50 

Prepared Cocoanut 57 

Filberts, edible portion 65 

Peanuts, edible portion 38 

Hickory Nuts, edible portion 67 

Peanut Butter 46 

Pecans, edible portion 70 

Pistachios, edible portion 54 

Walnuts, edible portion 64 

COCOA 48 

CHOCOLATE 28 

171 



APPENDIX 

247 

U. S. GOVERNMENT 
RECIPES 



CONTENTS 

PAGE 

Eight Ways of Using Meat 175 

Forty-five Ways of Using Mutton 179 

Twelve Ways of Using Peanuts 197 

Twenty-two Ways of Using Cheese 201 

Forty-two Ways of Using Corn Meal 210 

Forty-seven Ways of Using Honey 224 

Seventy-one Ways of Using Vegetables 241 

THHIS appendix is made up of recipes published in 
• U. S. Government Reports, and is therefore not 
protected by copyright. Uncle Sam spends a vast 
amount of money experimenting with foods, compiling 
and testing recipes. He wants strong, healthy chil- 
dren, and he knows that in order to be healthy they 
must eat the right food. He wishes his work to have 
the widest circulation possible. So in submitting these 
selected U. S. Government Recipes to our readers we 
feel that we are submitting the best that it is possible 
to obtain. 



MEAT RECIPES FROM FARMERS' BULLETIN 
NO. 391 

MEAT AND TOMATO PIE 

This dish presents an excellent way of using up 
small quantities of either cold beef or cold mutton. If 
fresh tomatoes are used, peel and slice them ; if canned, 
drain off the liquid. Place a layer of tamato in a bak-^ 
ing dish, then a layer of sliced meat, and over the two 
dredge flour, pepper and salt; repeat until the dish is 
nearly full, then put in an extra layer of tomato and 
cover the whole with a layer of pastry or of bread or 
cracker crumbs. When the quantity of meat is small, 
it may be "helped out" by boiled potatoes or other 
suitable vegetables. A few oysters or mushrooms 
improve the flavor, especially when beef is used. The 
pie will need to be baked from half an hour to an hour 
according to its size and the heat of the oven. 

TURKISH PILAF 

Yz cup of rice 1 cup stock or broth 

^ cup of tomatoes stewed 3 tablespoonfuls of butter 
and strained 

Cook the rice and tomatoes with the stock in a 
double boiler until the rice is tender, removing the 
cover after the rice is cooked if there is too much 
liquid. Add the butter and stir it in with a fork to 
prevent the rice from being broken. A little catsup 
or Chili sauce with water enough to make three- 
quarters of a cup may be substituted for the tomatoes. 

175 



176 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

This may be served as a border with meat, or served 
separately in the place of a vegetable, or may make 
the main dish at a meal, as it is savory and reasonably 
nutritious. 

MEAT CAKES 

1 lb. chopped veal 1 teaspoonful chopped 
54 lb. soaked bread crumbs onion 

2 tablespoonfiils savory fat 1% teaspoonfuls salt 

or butter Dash of pepper 

Mix all the ingredients except the butter or fat and 
shape into small round cakes. Melt the fat in a bak- 
ing pan and brown the cakes in it, first one side and 
then the other. Either cooked or raw veal may be 
used. In the case of raw meat the pan should be cov- 
ered so that the heat may be retained to soften the 
meat. 

STEW FROM COLD ROAST 

This dish provides a good way of using up the rem- 
nants of a roast, either of beef or mutton. The meat 
should be freed from fat, gristle, and bones, cut into 
small pieces, slightly salted, and put into a kettle with 
water enough to nearly cover it. It should simmer 
until almost ready to break in pieces, when onions and 
raw potatoes, peeled and quartered, should be added. 
A little soup stock may also be added if available. 
Cook until the potatoes are done, then thicken the 
liquor or gravy with flour. The stew may be attrac- 
tively served on slices of crisp toast. 

MEXICAN BEEF 

Remove the seeds from two Chili peppers, soak the 



MEAT RECIPES 177 

pods in a pint of warm water until they are soft, scrape 
the pulp from the skin and add to the water. Cut two 
pounds of beef into small pieces and brown in butter 
or drippings. Add a clove of garlic and the Chili 
water. Cook until the meat is tender, renewing the 
water if necessary. Thicken the sauce with flour. 
Serve with Mexican beans either mixed with the meat 
or used as a border. 

In the absence of the Chili peppers, water and Cay- 
enne pepper may be used, and onions may be substi- 
tuted for garlic. For the Mexican beans, red kidney 
beans either fresh or canned make a good substitute. 
If the canned beans are used they should be drained 
and heated in a little savory fat or butter. The liquid 
may be added to the meat while it is cooking. If the 
dried beans are used they should be soaked until soft, 
then cooked in water until tender and rather dry, a 
little butter or dripping and salt being used for season- 
ing or gravy. White or dried Lima beans may be 
used in a similar way. 

ROAST BEEF WITH YORKSHIRE PUDDING 

The beef is roasted as usual and the pudding made 

as follows : 

3 eggs 1 cupful flour 

1 pint of milk 1 teaspoonful salt 

Beat the eggs until very light, then add the milk. 
Pour the mixture over the flour, add the salt, and beat 
well. Bake in hissing hot gem pans or in an ordinary 
baking pan for forty-five minutes, and baste with drip- 
pings from the beef. If gem pans are used, they should 
be placed on a dripping pan to protect the floor of 



178 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

the oven from the fat. Many cooks prefer to bake 
Yorkshire pudding in the pan with the meat; in this 
case the roast should be placed on a rack and the pud- 
ding batter poured on the pan under it. 

HAM AND POACHED EGGS WITH CREAM SAUCE 

A more elaborate dish of meat and eggs is made by 
placing a piece of thinly sliced boiled ham on a 
round of buttered toast, a poached egg on the ham, 
and covering with a highly seasoned cream or a Hol- 
landaise sauce. A slice of tongue may be used instead 
of the ham. If preferred, a well-seasoned and rather 
thick tomato sauce or curry sauce may be used. 

MOCK DUCK 

Mock duck is made by placing on a round steak a 
stuffiing of bread crumbs well seasoned with chopped 
onions, butter, chopped suet or dripping, salt, pepper, 
and a little sage, if the flavor is relished. The steak 
is then rolled around the stuffing and tied with a 
string in several places. If the steak seems tough, the 
roll is steamed or stewed until tender before roasting 
in the oven until brown. Or it may be cooked in a 
casserole or other covered dish, in which case a cup- 
ful or more of water or soup-stock should be poured 
around the meat. Mock duck is excellent served with 
currant or other acid jelly. 



45 MUTTON RECIPES FROM FARMERS' BUL- 
LETIN 526 

MUTTON BROTH 

3 lbs. mutton from the neck 3 tablespoons rice or barley 

2 qts. cold water 1 teaspoon salt 

Wipe the meat, remove the skin and fat, and cut the 
meat into small pieces. Put into the kettle with bones, 
and cover with the water. Heat gradually to the boil- 
ing point and season with salt and with pepper if 
liked. Cook slowly until the meat is tender, strain, and 
remove the fat. Reheat to boiling point, add the rice 
or barley, and cook until the rice or barley is tender. 
If barley is used, soak it over night in cold water. 

MUTTON STEWS 

In preparing mutton for stews, several different 
plans may be followed. The meat may be cut into 
small pieces and cooked in water, or it may be first 
browned in fat before being cooked in water. Another 
way is to mince the raw meat, cook in a little fat, and 
then combine with vegetables. This is suitable when 
the vegetables used are very juicy as in Minced Mut- 
ton with Eggplant. 

CURRY OF MUTTON 

2 lbs. mutton from the fore 2 tablespoons flour 

quarter 1 teaspoon curry powder 

1 onion Salt 

1 teaspoon vinegar Boiling water 

Cut off small portions of the fat and try them out. 
Remove the unmelted portions, and in the remainder 
fry the meat until it is a delicate brown. Add the 

179 



180 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

onions and pour over all enough boiling water barely 
to cover. Cook until the meat is tender. Add the 
curry powder, vinegar and salt. Remove the meat, 
reduce the broth to one cup, and thicken it with flour 
diluted with cold water. Add the meat to the gravy 
and reheat. Serve with rice. 

OKRA AND MUTTON STEW 

1 lb. lean mutton, free from 2 cups tomatoes 

bone 2 cups okra, cut into thin 

2 tablespoons butter or drip- slices 

pings V/z teaspoons salt 

2 tablespoons flour J4 teaspoon pepper 

2 onions Water 

Wipe the meat and cut it into cubes. Wash the okra 
and cut into thin slices, dredge it and the meat with 
the flour, and fry them in the fat until brown. Add 
the other ingredients, using water enough barely to 
cover and cook slowly either in the oven or on top of 
the stove in a tightly covered dish. 

SCOTCH BROTH 

1 qt. rich mutton broth, free 4 stalks celery 

from fat 2 tablespoons butter or mut- 

1 carrot ton fat 

1 turnip 2 tablespoons floiu: 

2 onions Salt 

The liquor in which mutton is boiled may be used 
in preparing this dish, but it will usually need to be 
boiled down. Cut the vegetables into small pieces 
and cook them slowly in the stock for two hours. Rub 
the flour and butter together and add to them a little 
of the hot broth. Stir until the mixture is smooth, then 
add it to the broth. 

When no mutton stock is on hand, prepare it from 



MUTTON RECIPES 181 

2 pounds of mutton from the fore quarter. Remove 
the meat from the bone and cut into small pieces and, 
for convenience, tie the bones in a small piece of cloth 
and cook in the same water in which the meat is 
cooked. In this case, serve the meat with the broth. 

HARICOT OF MUTTON 

2 tablespoons butter or 2-in. pieces 

drippings 2 cups water 

2 tablespoons chopped Salt and pepper 

onions Lima beans 

1^ lbs. lean mutton cut into Chopped parseley 

Fry the onions in the butter, remove the onions, add 
the meat, and brown ; cover with water and cook until 
the meat is tender. Serve with a border of Lima 
beans, seasoned with salt, pepper, butter, and a little 
chopped parsley. Fresh, canned, dried, or evaporated 
Lima beans may be used in making this dish. 

STEWED SHEEP'S HEARTS 

2 sheep's hearts 54 teaspoon pepper 

2 oz. fat salt pork 1^ pts. boiling water 

2 tablespoons minced onion Salt 

2 tablespoons flour 

Split and wash the hearts, season them with the salt 
and pepper, and roll them in the flour. Try out the 
pork, and add the onions to the pork fat and cook 
them 10 minutes. At the end of that time, remove the 
pork and onions to a stewpan and fry the hearts in 
the fat. Transfer hearts to the stewpan. Rinse the 
frying pan with the water, which should then be 
poured over the hearts. Use the flour that remains 
lafter the hearts are rolled to thicken the broth. Cook 
the hearts in the gravy for three hours, being careful 



182 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

to keep the temperature just below the boiUng point. 
At serving time, the hearts are usually sliced and the 
gravy poured over them. 

BOILED LEG OF MUTTON 

After wiping the meat thoroughly with a damp 
cloth, cover it with water which, if haste is an object, 
should be hot. Cook about 15 minutes for each pound, 
keeping the temperature a little below the boiling 
point. The proper temperature will be indicated by 
a slight bubbling. When the meat is partly done, add 
the salt and water. 

BOILED MUTTON WITH OYSTER SAUCE 
4 lbs. mutton from the Salt 

shoulder 1 onion 

1 pint oysters 

Bone the mutton and stuff with half the oysters, or 
make a gash in the meat near the bone and insert half 
the oysters and tie into shape. Half cover the meat 
with water and cook in a closely covered dish for 2 
hours. With the remaining oysters make the follow- 
ing sauce: 

Oyster Sauce 

2 tablespoons butter or Yz cup of the liquid in which 

mutton fat the mutton has been 

1 tablespoon flour boiled 

Yz pint oysters 

Drain the oysters and heat and strain the liquor. 
Wash the oysters, add them to the hot oyster liquor 
and cook until they are plump. Remove the oysters 
and keep warm while making a sauce of the butter, 
flour, oyster liquor, and mutton stock. Add the oysters 
and season with salt and pepper. 



MUTTON RECIPES 183 

STEAMED MUTTON 

Small pieces of mutton may be very satisfactorily 
prepared by covering the surface with powdered or 
finely chopped seasonings, as suggested in the fore- 
going recipe, and steaming it, or it may be steamed 
without the seasonings. 

SAUCES FOR BOILED OR STEAMED MUTTON 

Caper Sauce 
1/3 cup butter or mutton fat J^ teaspoon salt 
ll4 cups hot water or mut- % cup capers drained from 

ton broth their liquor 

2 tablespoons flour 

Melt half the butter or all the mutton fat, add the 
flour, and cook thoroughly. Pour the hot water or 
stock on gradually. Before serving, add the remain- 
ing butter (if this is the fat used in preparing the dish) 
and the capers. If the gravy is made somewhat 
thicker than as above directed it can be spread over 
the surfact of the meat. This covers any irregularities 
in the surface and is thought by some people to im- 
prove the appearance of the dish. 

Mock Caper Sauce 
For the capers in the above recipe, chopped sour 
pickles may be substituted. 

PARSLEY SAUCE 

2 tablespoons butter or mut- Salt 

ton fat Juice of 5^ lemon 

2 tablespoons flour 1 tablespoon finely chopped 

1 cup milk or mutton broth parsley 

Melt the butter, add the flour, and cook for two or 
three minutes, stirring constantly. Add the milk and 



184 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

cook until the liquid is thickened. Season with salt. 
Just before serving add the lemon juice and parsley. 

HORSE-RADISH SAUCE No. 1 

(For cold boiled mutton) 
2 tablespoons cracker 54 cup grated horse-radish 

crumbs root 

2 tablespoons butter or Yz teaspoon salt 

mutton fat 1 cup milk 

Cook the crumbs, horse-radish and milk 20 minutes 
in a double boiler. Add the remaining ingredients and 
serve either hot or cold. 



HORSE-RADISH SAUCE No. 2 

1/3 cup thick cream 1 tablespoon vinegar 

3 tablespoons grated horse- Salt and cayenne 
radish root 

Whip the cream and add the other ingredients. 



MUTTON SAVORY LOAF 

2 lbs, lean mutton, free from 1 cup milk 

bone 2 eggs 

2 lbs. lean fresh pork, free Yi teaspoon each curry pow- 

from bone der, powdered thyme, 

1 small onion black pepper, and pap- 

1 green pepper rika 

2 stalks celery 15^ tablespoons salt 

1 bimch parsley 1 lb. bacon sliced very thin 

Remove the seeds from the pepper and put the vege- 
tables and meat through a meat grinder, using the 
finest chopper for the vegetables, and chopping the 
meat about as fine as for Hamburg steak. Mix thor- 
oughly all the ingredients but the bacon. Form the 
chopped meat mixture into a roll about 2 or 3 inches 
in diameter ; cover the sides and ends completely with 
the bacon, roll in a pudding cloth or a piece of cheese 



MUTTON RECIPES 185 

cloth, and tie securely. This can be conveniently done 
by laying the cloth on a flat surface, and then laying 
the strips of bacon upon it side by side in such a way 
as to form a continous layer large enough to cover 
the whole surface of the meat roll. Put the meat roll 
in the center, and bring the bacon up around the sides 
and ends. The cloth should be tied securely at the 
ends, and either pinned or sewed securely at the side. 
Boil for three hours in just enough water to cover, to 
which has been added one tablespoon of salt and one- 
half cup of vinegar. This may be served cold or may 
be cut into slices and fried. This mixture may also be 
either steamed in a mold or baked. If this is done, the 
bacon should be used to line the mold and cover the 
top of the mixture. If baked, it is well to add to the 
meat mixture a cup of bread crumbs and one-half cup 
more milk. 

For the fresh pork in the above, either an equal 
amount of ham, veal, or a mixture of veal and salt pork, 
may be substituted. When ham or salt pork is used 
reduce the amount of salt. 

BRAISED LEG OF MUTTON 

1 leg mutton parsley 

Yz medium-sized onion 54 cup mutton drippings or 

1 carrot butter 

1 turnip 1^ teaspoons salt 

Yz bay leaf 12 peppercorns 

1 sprig each th3mie and 3 cups hot water 

Have the leg of mutton boned. Wipe, stuff with 
the mixture described below, sew, and place in a deep 
pan. Cook the onion (sliced) the carrot and turnip 
(cut into dice) bay leaf, thyme, and parsley five min- 
utes in the butter or mutton drippings. Add the hot 



186 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

water, salt, and peppercorns and pour the mixture 
over the mutton. Cook slowly for three hours, with 
the dish covered except for the last half hour. Make 
a brown gravy out of the strained broth in which the 
meat has been cooked. 

Stuffing for Braised Leg of Mutton 
The stuffing for the braised leg of mutton is made 
as follows: 

1 cup cracker crumbs Yz teaspoon poultry season- 

2 tablespoons melted butter ing 

54 teaspoon salt 54 cup boiling water 

Yq teaspoon pepper 

OVEN POT ROAST 

3 lbs. mutton from the pieces 

shoulder 1 cup sliced onion 

1 cup potatoes cut into small 2 tablespoons flour 

pieces Salt 

1 cup carrots cut into small 

Put the meat into an earthenware bean pot and 
cover with boiling water. Place the cover on the pot 
and let the meat cook in a moderate oven for two 
hours. Add the vegetables and the salt, cover again, 
and cook for one hour. Reduce the liquid in which the 
meat and vegetables have been cooked to one cup and 
thicken with the flour. 

SHOULDER OF MUTTON BRAISED WITH TURNIPS 
6 lbs. mutton from the 4 cloves 

shoulder 54 bay leaf 

1 onion 1 quart water 

1 carrot 6 turnips 

1 stalk celery Salt 

Cut the onion, carrot and celery into small pieces 
and put these with the shoulder of mutton into a deep 



MUTTON RECIPES 187 

baking pan. Cover and allow the mutton juice to 
permeate the vegetables and brown with them. Then 
add the water, cloves and bay leaf. Cook in a mod- 
erate over until the meat is tender, which will be about 
20 minutes for each pound. One hour before serving, 
add the turnips, which have been peeled and parboiled. 

BRAISED BREAST OF MUTTON 

1 breast mutton 1 lemon 

Few slices bacon 1 onion 

J4 pint stock Salt 

Line the bottom of a casserole or other earthenware 
baking dish with a few thin slices of bacon, lay the 
mutton on these, and put over it the lemon, which has 
been peeled and cut into slices. Cover with one or 
two more slices of bacon and add the stock and onion. 
Cover the dish. Cook slowly on the top of the stove or 
in the oven until the meat is tender. 

MUTTON SMOTHERED IN TOMATOES 



1^/ 


J lbs. mutton steak 


Salt 


1 


cup bread crumbs 


1 can tomatoes, or 1 quart 


1 


small onion 


fresh tomatoes cut in 




Poultry seasoning 


slices 



Spread over the mutton steak a layer of bread 
crumbs mixed with the minced onion and other sea- 
sonings. Roll and tie into shape. Place in a casserole 
or other dish with a tightly-fitting cover. Pour the 
tomatoes over the meat and cook very slowly in the 
oven or on top of the stove for three or four hours. 
If the tomatoes do not cover the meat, add a little boil- 
ing water. 



188 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

MINT SAUCE AND MINT JELLY 

54 cup finely chopped mint sugar 

leaves 5^ cup vinegar 

1 tablespoon powdered Yz teaspoon salt 



Combine the ingredients and let the mixture stand 
in a warm place until the flavor of the mint has pene- 
trated the liquid. 

Mint sauce, which is so generally relished with 
roast mutton and roast lamb, may be made from either 
the fresh or the dried spearmint. Mint jelly, which is 
also popular, can be made by stiffening mint sauce 
with gelatin. For this purpose one-half tablespoonful 
of gelatin soaked in cold water enough to cover it may 
be used with a cup of mint sauce made as above from 
freshly chopped mint leaves; or make a mint sauce 
by boiling together one cupful each of vinegar (not 
too strong) and sugar for about five minutes and add- 
ing three-fourths cupful finely chopped mint leaves and 
one-fourth teaspoonful of salt and a very little paprika. 
To this add one and one-fourth tablespoonfuls granu- 
lated gelatin which has been softened in a little cold 
water. Cool the mixture and stir until it begins to 
thicken and then pour it into small molds or glasses. 
The amount of mint may be increased if a stronger 
flavor is liked. This jelly can be kept only a short 
time. 

Mint jelly is also made by flavoring apple jelly with 
green mint leaves. Two pounds of apples cut in 
quarters are cooked with water to cover until soft, as 
for ordinary jelly, and three cups of green mint leaves 
and tops are added about 10 minutes before the cook- 



MUTTON RECIPES 189 

ing is completed. To the juice drained from the apple 
and mint, three-fourths of a cupful of sugar and juice 
of a large lemon are added, and the jelly is cooked 
until a little tested on a cold plate will harden. It is 
then strained into hot jelly glasses. Housekeepers 
commonly tint jelly made by either method with a 
little vegetable green coloring matter. 

LEG OF MUTTON STUFFED AND ROASTED 

For this purpose have the leg of mutton cut into two 
pieces and use the thicker end, which should be boned. 
Stuff the boned piece and tie into good shape. Roast 
in a hot oven, allowing about 10 minutes for each 
pound if the meat is desired rare, 15 if desired well 
cooked. 

DRESSING FOR ROAST MUTTON 

1 pint stale bread crumbs 1 teaspoon sweet marjoram 
5^ cup cracker crumbs Salt and pepper 

Yz teaspoon sage Few drops onion juice 

2 tablespoons butter 

Soak the bread in cold water. Press out nearly all 
the water, and add the other ingredients. 

ROAST RIBS OF MUTTON WITH APPLES 

After wiping the meat, spread over the surface one 
finely chopped clove of garlic, one chopped onion, one- 
half teaspoon each of powdered thyme and marjoram, 
and one teaspoon of salt. Place on a rack and roast 
in a moderate oven from one and one-half to two 
hours, basting frequently. Place potatoes and sour 
apples around the roast, the former one hour before 
serving and the latter one-half hour. The apples will 



190 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

prove a palatable accompaniment to the roast and will 
impart their flavor to the gravy, which should be 
made according to directions on page 21. 

ROAST MUTTON WITH BANANAS 

Peel the bananas and bake them for 30 minutes 
under the mutton. Tart fruit relishes, such as spiced 
currants or those given below, may be served with the 
bananas. 

FRUIT RELISHES WITH ROAST MUTTON 

1 cup prunes cut in. to y^ teaspoon ground cinna- 

small pieces mon 

V/z cups water 2 tablespoons currant jelly 

3 tablespoons sugar Juice of y^ orange 

Boil together until the prunes are soft. 

For the prunes in this recipe raisins or a mixture of 
equal parts of raisins and prunes may be substituted. 
One-fourth cup of butter is sometimes added. 

These fruit relishes may be served also with sliced 
cold lamb or mutton and are very palatable. 

ROAST MUTTON WITH TURNIPS 

Turnips are frequently cooked under roast mutton. 
They are sometimes stuffed. To prepare in this way, 
first parboil the turnips and then scoop out a portion 
of each by means of a spoon and fill the cavity with 
bread which has been soaked in cream or in milk to 
which a little melted butter has been added. 

MUTTON AND POTATO PIE 

1 lb. mutton from the 6 medium-sized potatoes 

shoulder 1 teaspoon baking powder 

1 onion 1 tablespoon butter 

yz cup flour Salt 

1 carrot 



MUTTON RECIPES 191 

Cook the onions, carrots and meat together in water 
enough to cover. Boil the potatoes separately. Re- 
serve enough of the potatoes to make a cup of mashed 
potatoes. Cut the remaining potatoes and the other 
vegetables and meat into small pieces, and place in a 
baking dish. Cover with some of the broth thickened 
with the flour. Mash the remaining potatoes. Add 
butter and salt. Mix this with the flour which has 
been thoroughly sifted with the baking powder. 
Spread this mixture over the ingredients in the baking 
dish, and bake in a hot oven until the crust is brown. 

SAUCES FOR BROILED LOIN CHOPS 

Parsley and Butter Sauce y^ tablespoon finely chopped 
54 cup butter parsley 

Vz teaspoon salt ^ tablespoon lemon jmce 

y% teaspoon pepper 

Cream the butter, add the salt, pepper and parsley, 
and then the lemon juice very slowly. 

ONION SAUCE 

6 large white onions 1 teaspoon sugar 

54 cup butter 5^ cup cream 

1 tablespoon flour Salt 

Cut the onions into two or three pieces each, and 
cook them for 10 minutes in boiling salt water. Strain 
them and cook in a covered sausepan with the butter 
for about three-fourths hour or until they are very 
tender. Press through a puree sieve and reheat. 
Sprinkle the flour over them, stirring it in thoroughly, 
and add the seasonings. Bring to the boiling point 
and heat long enough to cook the flour thoroughly. 



192 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

SAUCES FOR PAN-BROILED LOIN CHOPS 
SAVORY SAUCE 

To the fat in the pan in which the chops have been 
broiled add enough butter to make about two table- 
spoons. In this brown three tablespoons of flour and 
add one cup of water or stock. Season with salt and 
pepper and add one-half onion finely chopped, and 
one tablespoon each of capers and finely chopped 
pickle. 

TOMATO SAUCE 

2 tablespoons butter 1 stalk celery 

2 tablespoons flour 1 sliced onion 
Stewed or fresh tomato Few cloves 

enough to make 1 cup Salt and pepper 
when well boiled down 

Cook the tomatoes with the seasonings. Cook the 
flour thoroughly in the butter, strain the tomatoes, and 
add to them the butter and the flour. Cook all to- 
gether until smooth, stirring constantly. 

MUTTON IN GRAVY 

Cold mutton reheated in gravy or sauce is served 
with rice on toast, on baking-powder biscuits, with 
a pastry or biscuit crust, with a crust of mashed po- 
tatoes, or with a crust consisting of mashed potatoes 
and mashed turnips in proportion of 2 to 1. 

GREEN PEPPERS STUFFED WITH MUTTON 

Cut green peppers in two lengthwise and remove 
all the seeds. Fill with a mixture of equal parts of 
cold mutton and boiled rice well seasoned and moist- 
ened with a little stock or water. Bake until the pep- 
pers are tender. 



MUTTON RECIPES 193 

MUTTON CROQUETTES 

Like other meats, mutton may be used for cro- 
quettes. A general rule for making croquettes is to 
combine two cups of finely chopped cooked meat (or 
the same amount of a mixture of meat, rice and pota- 
toes or other vegetables) with one cup of thick sauce. 
The sauce for this purpose is made by heating one- 
third cup of flour, or one-fourth cup of cornstarch, in 
three tablespoons of fat, and adding a cup of liquid 
which may be stock, water, milk, tomato juice, or a 
mixture. The amounts given above are those gener- 
ally used, but the proportion of sauce to meat varies 
under different circumstances, as some substances 
absorb more of this sauce than others do. It is a 
common practice, though by no means necessary, to 
add the yolk of a raw egg. After the mixture of meat 
and sauce is cooled it is formed into rolls of uniform 
size which should be dipped first in flour, then in a 
mixture of two tablespoons of water and one egg, and 
finally in fine cracker crumbs. The temperature for 
frying croquettes is that for all foods which have al- 
ready been cooked (about 400 degrees F.). Fat (oil, 
lard, drippings, etc.) at that temperature will brown 
a piece of bread taken from the center of a loaf in 40 
seconds. 

MUTTON AND CAPER CROQUETTES 

3 tablespoons savory fat mutton 

1/3 cup flour 1 tablespoon finely chopped 

1 cup mutton stock or milk capers 

2 cups finely chopped cold Salt 

Make a sauce out of the fat, flour, and liquid, mix 

with the other ingredients, and follow the rules given 

above for making croquettes. 



194 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

MUTTON AND RICE CROQUETTES 

In the above recipe, substitute one cup of cold boiled 
rice for one of the cups of mutton. 

MUTTON AND POTATO CROQUETTES 

In the recipe for mutton croquettes, substitute two- 
thirds of a cup of cold boiled potatoes cut into small 
pieces for one of the cups of mutton. 

STEAMED MUTTON AND RICE 

4 cups cooked or Few drops onion juice 

1 cup raw rice 1 tablespoon chopped pars- 

2 cups cooked mutton cut ley 

into small pieces 54 cup bread crumbs 

1 teaspoon salt 1 egg 

J4 teaspoon pepper Stock or water 

Grease a mold or a bowl of about 1^/2 quarts capacity 
and line with cooked rice. Heat the meat with the 
other ingredients, using enough stock to make a mix- 
ture that is moist, but will hold its shape. Pack the 
meat in the center of the mold and cover with the 
remaining rice, grease the cover of the mold (if a 
bowl is used, a plate will serve for a cover), steam or 
cook in water enough to partly cover the mold until 
the contents are thoroughly heated through. Turn it 
on a hot platter and serve with tomato sauce. 

The above recipe, it will be noted, suggests the use 
of bread crumbs instead of flour for thickening, which 
is often a way of saving bread which might otherwise 
be wasted, and which is also one way of securing 
variety, as a different texture results than when flour 
is used. 



MUTTON RECIPES 195 

MOCK VENISON 

Cut cold mutton into thin slices and reheat in a 

sauce made in the following way : 

2 tablespoons butter 1 tablespoon catsup or other 

2 tablespoons flour meat sauce 

1 cup water or stock Salt 
54 cup red currant jelly 

Make a brown sauce out of the butter, flour and 
water or stock. Add the jelly and other flavorings. 

TURKISH STUFFED TOMATOES 

In Turkey a number of dishes are prepared from 
mutton which are interesting from the point of view 
of the food customs of another country, and also pala- 
table. The recipes here given have been modified 
somewhat to accord with our usual habits of cookery. 
One of them involves the use of broken rice, which 
can easily be prepared by the use of an ordinary 
meat grinder. The following recipe for stuffed toma- 
toes is little different from many used in this country : 

Two tablespoons cooked rice, one-half pound raw 
mutton, two onions. Pass the materials through a 
meat grinder; season with salt, pepper, and chopped 
parsley; fry in a pan for 10 minutes, stirring con- 
stantly. Wash one dozen smooth round tomatoes, cut 
a thin slice from the stem end, leaving a little of the 
skin for a hinge, remove the seeds and pulp, and fill 
with the meat mixture. Bake in a pan for 20 minutes, 
lift out with a broad knife and serve hot. 

MUTTON AND EGGPLANT PIE 

Eggplant pie is a simple and well-seasoned dish 
made from a vegetable which has no marked flavor. 



196 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

It is made by cooking together in a baking pan alter- 
nate layers of eggplant and of chopped mutton fried 
in its own fat. Sometimes a little tomato juice is 
added or a few sliced tomatoes. It should be baked 
until well browned. 

MUTTON AND RICE ROLLS 

A characteristic Turkish dish is "sarma" or rolls 
made of meat and broken rice wrapped in grape leaves 
and then boiled. An acceptable substitute for this 
dish and one more in accord with common methods 
may be made by cooking chopped mutton and rice in 
a baking dish lined with slices of tart apple, which 
gives an even more pronounced tart flavor than the 
grape leaves or the following recipe may be used; 

MUTTON AND CABBAGE-LEAF ROLLS 

1 cup raw chopped mutton 54 teaspoon pepper 

2 tablespoons fat 1 head cabbage 
1/3 cup raw rice 1 lemon 

2 teaspoons salt 

Throw cabbage leaves of suitable size into boiling 
water and let them stand until they are wilted. Mix 
the remaining ingredients (with the exception of the 
lemon) and form into rolls, each containing about 1 
tablespoon. Wrap each roll in a cabbage leaf, remov- 
ing the thicker part of the stem of the leaf if necessary 
in order to roll it well. Pack these rolls closely into 
the baking dish and cover with water or stock. Bake 
one-half hour. Just before serving squeeze the juice 
of a lemon over them. 

Or serve with the following: 



PEANUT RECIPES 197 

SOUR BUTTER SAUCE FOR MUTTON AND CAB- 

BAGE-LEAF ROLLS 
1 tablespoon chopped pickle 3 tablespoons vinegar (spiced 

1 tablespoon chopped parsley vinegar from pickles pre- 

2 tablespoons butter ferrable) 

2 tablespoons mutton fat Salt and red pepper to 
(savory or plain ren- taste 

dered) 

Beat the butter and mutton fat with a spoon until 
smooth, then beat in the vinegar until the sauce looks 
light colored and the vinegar has all been taken up. 
Add 1 tablespoon of finely chopped pickles and 1 table- 
spoon of finely chopped parsley. 



12 PEANUT RECIPES FROM U. S. BULLETIN 
NO. 746 

PEANUT BUTTER 

pEANUT butter can be made at home by grinding 
the roasted peanuts through the food chopper 
several times, using the nut knife. Add salt to taste. 
This makes a paste which may be thinned with a little 
cream or milk, if desired. 

Another sandwich filling may be made by the fol- 
lowing recipe: 

PEANUT BUTTER 

1 cup milk or water 1 tablespoon butter or other 

1 tablespoon flour fat 

% tablespoon water 54 cup vinegar 
1 egg Red pepper 

1 teaspoon salt 2 cups roasted peanuts 

1 tablespoon sugar ground fine 

Heat the milk and while it is heating mix the flour 



198 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

with the water and add eggs, salt and sugar. To this 
mixture add the heated milk. Cook five minutes, stir- 
ring constantly. Then add butter, vinegar and ground 
peanuts. 

CREAMED PEANUTS ON TOAST 

2 cups milk 1 teaspoon cornstarch 

1 cup finely ground roasted 1 teaspoon onion juice 

peanuts J4 cup chopped stuffed olives 

1 teaspoon salt 

Canned pimentos, chopped green peppers cooked 
until tender, or cooked celery are equally as good as 
stuffed olives. 

Scald milk in the double boiler, reserving a table- 
spoon of cold milk to mix with the cornstarch. Add 
with onion juice and other seasonings to the hot milk. 
Let come to a boil and finish cooking over the double 
boiler. Add the peanuts the last thing before serv- 
ing. Serve on toast. Good for a luncheon dish, 

CREAMED PEANUTS AND RICE 

1 cup rice (uncooked) White sauce: 

2 cups chopped peanuts 3 tablespoons flour 
Yz teaspoon paprika 3 tablespoons fat 

2 teaspoons salt 3 cups milk (whole or skim) 

Boil the rice and make a white sauce by mixing the 
flour in the melted fat and mixing with the milk. Stir 
over fire until it thickens. Mix rice, peanuts and sea- 
soning with the sauce, place in greased baking dish 
and bake for 20 minutes. 

PEANUT FONDU 

1 cup finely ground peanuts 1 2/3 cups milk 

1 cup dried Liberty bread V/^ teaspoons salt 

crumbs Dash of paprika 

I egg 



PEANUT RECIPES 199 

Grind the peanuts fine. Mix all the ingredients ex- 
cept the white of egg. Beat egg white very stiff and 
fold in. Bake in a buttered baking dish for 30 to 40 
minutes in a moderate oven. 

PEANUT LOAF 

1 cup chopped peanuts 5^ teaspoon salt 

2 cups Liberty bread crumbs >4 teaspoon pepper 
2 tablespoons melted fat 54 to f^ cup milk 

I egg 

Mix, using enough milk to make a moist loaf. Put 
in buttered pan and bake an hour in a moderate oven, 
keeping covered the first half hour. Baste once or 
twice with melted fat. Turn into a hot platter and 
sprinkle with chopped peanuts. 

PEANUT-POTATO SAUSAGES 

1 cup mashed potatoes % teaspoon pepper 

1 cup ground roasted peanuts Salt pork, bacon, or 

1 egg, well beaten other fat 

1^ teaspoons salt 

Mix the mashed potatoes and seasonings with the 
ground nuts. Add beaten egg. Form into little cakes 
or sausages, roll in flour, meal or Liberty bread crumbs 
and place in greased pan with a small piece of fat or 
salt pork on each sausage. Bake in a fairly hot oven 
until brown. 

PARCHED CORN MEAL BISCUITS (WITHOUT 

WHEAT) 
% cup yellow corn meal 1 cup peanut butter 

1 teaspoon salt 154 cups water 

Put the meal into a shallow pan, heat in the oven 
until it is a delicate brown, stirring frequently. Mix 
the peanut butter, water, and salt and heat. While this 



200 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

mixture is hot, stir in the meal, which also should be 
hot. Beat thoroughly. The dough should be of such 
consistency that it can be dropped from a spoon. Bake 
in small cakes in an ungreased pan. This makes 16 
biscuits. 

PEANUT MUFFINS 

3^ cup corn meal 1 teaspoon salt 

1% cups rye flour 1% cups milk 

1 cup finely ground pea- 4 teaspoons baking pow- 

nuts der 

1 egg 

Add liquid to dry ingredients and mix well. Bake 
in well-greased muffin pans. 

PEANUT BROWNIES 

(These use no sugar, no white flour, and no shortening) 

14 cup corn sirup 14 teaspoon baking powder 

2 tablespoons strained 1 cup chopped peanuts 

honey 54 teaspoon salt 

1 square chocolate 1 teaspoon vanilla 
?4 cup buckwheat flour 

Melt the chocolate and mix with the corn sirup and 
honey. To this add 1 teaspoon vanilla and the dry 
ingredients, flour, baking powder, salt and nuts. Mix 
well and drop by the spoonful on well-greased pan. 
Bake in a moderate oven. 

PEANUT SALAD WITH BANANAS 

Slice bananas through the center, spread out on 
lettuce leaves and sprinkle liberally with chopped pea- 
nuts; serve with mayonnaise or plain salad dressing. 

PEANUT BRITTLE 

1 cup white corn sirup 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 tablespoon vinegar 1 cup freshly roasted pea- 

^ teaspoon salt nuts halved 



CHEESE RECIPES 201 

Cook the corn sirup, vinegar and salt in a saucepan 
until a little dropped in cold water forms a soft ball. 
Put the peanuts and this sirup into an iron skillet and 
stir until the sirup becomes a golden brown. Remove 
from the fire and stir in vanilla. Have ready a shal- 
law buttered pan, pour candy in and spread out in a 
thin sheet. Allow to cool, then remove from pan and 
crack into pieces. 

PEANUT-POP CORN BALLS 

2 quarts freshly popped corn 1 tablespoon vinegar 

2 cups freshly roasted pea- ^ teaspoon salt 

nuts 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 cup corn sirup 

Boil the sirup, vinegar, and salt until the sirup 

hardens when dropped in cold water. Add vanilla. 

Pour, while hot, over the pop corn and peanuts and 

mix well. When cool enough to handle, grease the 

hands and form into balls. 

22 CHEESE RECIPES FROM FARMERS' BUL- 
LETIN NO. 487 

CHEESE SAUCE No. 1 

1 cupful of milk of grated cheese) 

2 tablespoonfuls of flour Salt and pepper 
1 ounce of cheese (% cupful 

Thicken the milk with the flour and just before 
serving add the cheese, stirring until it is melted. 

This sauce is suitable to use in preparing creamed 
eggs, or to pour over toast, making a dish correspond- 
ing to ordinary milk toast, except for the presence of 
cheese. It may be seasoned with a little curry powder 
and poured over hard-boiled eggs. 



202 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

CHEESE SAUCE No. 2 

Same as cheese sauce No. 1, except that the cheese 
is increased from 1 to 2 ounces. This sauce is suitable 
for using with macaroni or rice, or for baking with 
crackers soaked in milk. 

CHEESE SAUCE No. 3 

Same as cheese sauce No. 1, except that two cup- 
fuls of grated cheese or 8 ounces are used. This may 
be used upon toast as a substitute for Welsh rabbit. 

CHEESE SAUCE No. 4 

Same as cheese sauce No. 2, save that 2 tablespoon- 
fuls of melted butter are mixed with the flour before 
the latter is put into the milk. This sauce is there- 
fore very rich in fat and has only a mild flavor of 
cheese. 

CHEESE FONDUE No. 1 

1 1/3 cupfuls of soft, stale grated fine or cut into 

bread crumbs small pieces 

6 ounces of cheese (1% cup- 4 eggs 

fuls of grated cheese or 1 cupful of hot water 

1 1/3 cupfuls of cheese % teaspoonful of salt 

Mix the water, bread crumbs, salt, and cheese; add 
the yolks thoroughly beaten; into this mixture cut 
and fold the whites of eggs beaten until stiff. Pour 
into a buttered baking dish and cook 30 minutes in a 
moderate oven. Serve at once. 

The food value of this dish, made with the above 
quantities, is almost exactly the same as that of a 
pound of beef of average composition and a pound of 
potatoes combined. It contains about 80 grams of 



CHEESE RECIPES 203 

proteids and has a fuel value of about 1,300 calories. 
Estimated cost 18 cents. 

CHEESE FONDUE No. 2 

11/3 cupfuls of hot milk (1 1/3 cupfuls of grated 

1 1/3 cupfuls of soft, stale cheese or 1 cupful of 

bread crumbs cheese cut into small 

1 tablespoonful of butter pieces) 

4 eggs Yz teaspoonful of salt 
1/3 of a pound of cheese 

Prepare as in previous recipe. 

The protein value of this dish is equal to that of 
V-/^, pounds of potato and beef, the fuel value, how- 
ever, being much in excess of these. Calculated cost 
22 cents. 

In making either of these fondues, rice or other 
cereals may be substituted for bread crumbs. One- 
fourth cupful of rice measured before cooking, or one 
cupful of cooked rice or other cereals, should be used. 

BOILED FONDUE 

V/z cupfuls of bread crumbs 1 egg 

V/z cupfuls of milk 2 tablespoonfuls of butter 

V/z cupfuls of cheese cut into 6 oimces of crackers 
small pieces 

Soak the bread in the milk. Melt the butter and 
add the cheese. When the cheese has melted add the 
soaked crumbs, the eggs slightly beaten and the sea- 
soning. Cook a short time and serve on toasted 
crackers. 

Since it consists of essentially the same ingredients, 
the food value of this dish is obviously much the same 
as that of fondue made in other ways. 



204 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

RICE FONDUE 

1 cupful of boiled rice y^ teaspoonful of salt 

2 tablespoonfuls of milk 1 teaspoonful of some com- 
4 eggs mercial meat sauce, or 
1 cupful of grated cheese similar flavoring 

Heat the rice in the milk, add the other ingredients, 
and cook slowly until the cheese is melted. Serve on 
crackers or toast. 

The food value is not far from that of a pound of 
beef of average composition, and the calculated cost 
is 15 cents. 

CORN AND CHEESE SOUFFLE 
1 tablespoonful of butter 1 cupful of chopped corn 

1 tablespoonful of chopped 1 cupful of grated cheese 

green pepper 3 eggs 

54 cupful of flour 54 teaspoonful of salt 

2 cupfuls of milk 

Melt the butter and cook the pepper thoroughly in 
it. Make a sauce out of the flour, milk, and cheese; 
add the corn, cheese, youlks, and seasoning; cut and 
fold in the wihtes beaten stiffly; turn into a buttered 
baking dish and bake in a moderate oven 30 minutes. 

Made with skimmed milk and without butter, this 
dish has a food value slightly in excess of a pound of 
beef and a pound of potatoes. Calculated cost about 
20 cents. 

WELSH RABBIT 

1 tablespoonful of butter 54 teaspoonful each of salt 

1 teaspoonful of cornstarch and mustard 

Yz cupful of milk A speck of cayenne pep- 

Yz pound of cheese, cut into per 
small pieces 

Cook the cornstarch in the butter ; then add the milk 

gradually and cook two minutes; add the cheese and 



CHEESE RECIPES 205 

Stir until it is melted. Season and serve on crackers 
or bread toasted on one side, the rabbit being poured 
over the untoasted side. . Food value is that of about 
three-fourths of a pound of beef. Calculated cost 13 
cents. 

TOMATO RABBIT 

2 tablespoonfuls of butter Ys teaspoonful of soda 
2 tablespoonfuls of flour 1 pound of cheese 

54 cupful of milk 2 eggs, slightly beaten 

54 cupful of stewed and Salt, mustard, cayenne 

strained tomatoes pepper 

Cook the butter and the flour together, add the milk, 
and as soon as the mixture thickens add tomatoes and 
soda. Then add cheese, eggs, and seasoning. Serve 
on toasted whole wheat or Graham bread. 

GREEN CORN, TOMATO AND CHEESE 

1 tablespoonful of butter 2 egg yolks 

2 cups of grated cheese 1 teaspoonful of salt ^ 
% cup of canned or grated % teaspoonful of paprika 

fresh corn 1 clove of garlic 

1 ripe pimiento 4 slices of bread 

% cup of tomato puree 

Into the melted butter stir the cheese until it, too, 
is melted. Then add the com and pimiento, stir for a 
moment and add the egg yolks beaten and mixed with 
the tomato juice and the salt and paprika. Have ready 
the bread toasted on one side and very lightly rubbed 
on its untoasted side with the garlic cut in two. Pour 
the mixture over the untoasted side of the bread and 
serve at once. A poached egg is sometimes placed on 
top of each portion, making a very nutritious combina- 
tion. 



206 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

MACARONI AND CHEESE No. 1 

1 cupful of macaroni, broken 2 tablespoonfuls of flour 

into small pieces 54 to J^ pound of cheese 

2 quarts of boiling salted Yi teaspoonful of salt 

water Speck of cayenne pepper 

1 cupful of milk 

Cook the macaroni in the boiling salted water, drain 
in a strainer, and pour cold water over it to prevent 
the pieces from adhereing to each other. Make a 
sauce out of the flour, milk and cheese. Put the sauce 
and macaroni in alternate layers in a buttered baking 
dish, cover with buttered crumbs, and heat in oven 
until crumbs are brown. 

MACARONI AND CHEESE No. 2 

A good way to prepare macaroni and cheese is to 
make a rich cheese sauce and heat the macaroni in it. 
The mixture is usually covered with buttered crumbs 
and browned in the oven. The advantage of this way 
of preparing the dish, however, is that it is unneces- 
sary to have a hot oven, as the sauce and macaroni may 
be reheated on the top of the stove. 

MACARONI WITH CHEESE AND TOMATO SAUCE 

Boiled macaroni may be heated in tomato sauce and 
sprinkled with grated cheese just before serving. 

ITALIAN MACARONI AND CHEESE 

1 cupful of macaroni broken 2 cloves 

into small pieces V/z cupfuls of tomato sauce 

2 quarts of boiling salted Yz cupful or more of grated 

water cheese 

Yz onion 

Cook the macaroni in the boiling salted water with 
the onion and cloves. Drain, remove the onion and 



CHEESE RECIPES 207 

cloves, reheat in tomato sauce, and serve with grated 
cheese. 

CHEESE AND MACARONI LOAF 

54 cupful of macaroni broken green pepper 

into small pieces 1 teaspoonful each of 

1 cupful of milk chopped onion and 

1 cupful of soft bread parsley 

crumbs 3 eggs 

1 tablespoonful of butter 1 teaspoonful of salt 

1 tablespoonful of chopped ^ cupful of grated cheese 

Cook the macaroni in boiling salted water until 
tender, and rinse in cold water. Cook the parsley, 
onion, and pepper in a little water with the butter. 
Pour off the water or allow it to boil away. Beat the 
egg white and yolk separately. Mix all the ingredi- 
ents, cutting and folding in the stiffly beaten whites 
at the last. Line a quart baking dish with buttered 
paper ; turn the mixture into it ; set the baking dish in 
a pan of hot water, and bake in a moderate oven from 
one-half to three-fourths of an hour. Serve with 
tomato sauce. 

BAKED RICE AND CHEESE No. 1 

1 cupful of uncooked rice and 2 tablespoonfuls of flour 

4 cupfuls of milk; or 54 pound of cheese 

3 cupfuls of cooked rice and 54 teaspoonful of salt 

1 cupful of milk 

If uncooked rice is used, it should be cooked in 3 
cupfuls of milk. Make a sauce with one cupful of 
milk, add the flour, cheese and salt. Into a buttered 
baking dish put alternate layers of the cooked rice and 
the sauce. Cover with buttered crumbs and bake until 
the crumbs are brown. The proteids in this dish, made 
with rice cooked in milk, are equal to those of nearly 



208 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

154 pounds of average beef. If skimmed milk is used, 
the fuel value is equal to nearly 3^ pounds of beef. 
Whole milk raises the fuel value still higher. Estima- 
ted cost 28 cents. 

BAKED RICE AND CHEESE No. 2 

54 pound of cheese grated or 1 cupful of rice 
cut into small pieces Milk as needed 

Cook the rice ; put into a buttered baking dish alter- 
nate layers of rice and cheese ; pour over them enough 
milk to come halfway to the top of the rice ; cover with 
buttered crumbs and brown. 

If the rice is cooked in milk either whole or skimmed, 
and one cup of milk is used to pour over it, this dish 
has as much protein as 1^ pounds of beef of average 
composition, and a much higher fuel value. 

BAKED CRACKERS AND CHEESE No. 1 

9 or 10 butter crackers or 1^ cupfuls of milk 

Boston crackers 54 teaspoonful of salt 
54 pound of cheese or 1 cup- Flour 

ful of grated cheese 

Split the crackers, if the thick sort are selected, or 
with a sharp knife cut them into pieces of uniform size. 
Pour the milk over them and drain it off at once. With 
the milk, flour, cheese and salt make a sauce. Into a 
buttered baking dish put alternate layers of the soaked 
crackers and sauce. Cover with bread crumbs and 
brown in the oven, or simply reheat without covering 
with crumbs. 

The above is a very satisfactory substitute for mac- 
aroni and cheese, and can be prepared in less time. 



CHEESE RECIPES 209 

BAKED CRACKERS AND CHEESE No. 2 

9 or 10 butter crackers or or skimmed 

soda crackers 1 cupful of grated cheese 

2 cupfuls of hot milk, whole J4 teaspoonful of salt 

This is more quickly prepared than the preceding 
recipe, but as the milk is likely to curdle, it has not 
so good a consistency. 

Soak the crackers in the milk; place them in a but- 
tered baking dish in alternate layers with the cheese; 
pour the remaining milk over them and bake. This 
dish may be covered with buttered crumbs. Variety 
may be secured, in either this recipe or the preceding 
one, by putting a very small amount of mixed mustard 
on each cracker. 

CHEESE ROLLS 

A large variety of rolls may be made by combining 
legumes, either beans of various kinds, cowpeas, len- 
tils, or peas, with cheese of various kinds, and adding 
bread crumbs to make the mixture thick enough to 
form into a roll. Beans are usually mashed, but peas 
or small Lima beans may be combined whole with 
bread crumbs and grated cheese, and enough of the 
liquor in which the vegetables have been cooked may 
be added to get the right consistency. Or, instead of 
beans or peas, chopped spinach, beet tops, or head 
lettuce may be used. Homemade cottage cheese, and 
the soft cream cheese of commerce, standard cheese, 
or English dairy may be used. 



210 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

42 CORN MEAL RECIPES FROM FARMERS' 
BULLETIN 565 

CORN PONE 

2 cups corn meal 54 cup wheat flour 
1/3 cup water 1 teaspoon salt 

1/3 cup sour milk or butter- 1 tablespoon sugar 

milk 2 teaspoons baking powder 
54 teaspoon soda 

pour the water and milk over the corn meal in a 
double boiler and cook a few moments, or boil 
the water and pour it over the corn meal and then 
add the buttermilk. Sift together the flour, salt, sugar, 
baking powder, and soda, and add to the corn meal 
when it is cool. The mixture should be just stiff 
enough to make into cakes or "pones." If it is stiifer 
than this, add a little water. Form into cakes and 
place in a hot, well-greased pan and bake in a hot 
oven until brown. The cakes should be handled 
lightly and not pressed down after they have been 
placed in the pan. 

APPLE CORN BREAD 

2 cups white com meal 1 teaspoon cream of tartar 

2 tablespoons sugar 1 2/3 cups milk 

54 teaspoon salt 3 tart apples, pared and 
1 teaspoon soda sliced 

Mix the dry ingredients, add the milk, and beat 
thoroughly. Add the apples. Pour into a well-but- 
tered shallow pan and bake 30 minutes or longer in 
hot oven to soften the apples. 

This could be made with dried apricots cooked in 
the usual manner by soaking and cooking slowly and 
adding a little sugar. The juice may be used as sauce. 

This serves six or eight people. 



CORN MEAL RECIPES 211 

CRACKLING BREAD 

1 quart corn meal 3 teaspoons salt 

1 pint cracklings Boiling water 

Mix the corn meal and salt; pour over this mixture 
enough boiling water to moisten but not enough to 
make a mush. When the meal has cooled, work the 
cracklings into it with the fingers. Form the dough 
into cakes about 4 inches long, 2 inches wide, and 1 
inch thick; bake for 30 minutes. This bread, because 
of its large percentage of fat, is eaten without butter, 
and should be served very hot. 

"Cracklings," like "scraps," is a name given to the 
crisp, brown meat tissue left after lard is "tried out." 
They consist of connective tissue with a large amount 
of fat adhering to it. Much of the fat can be removed 
by pressure. This is best done by squeezing them in 
a thin cloth while they are still warm or after they 
have been reheated. 

Because of the large amount of fat in this bread, it 
is better food for persons who are working hard out 
of doors than for those of sedentary occupations. This 
makes 12 cakes. 

CRISP CORN MEAL CAKE 

3 cups milk IJ^ cups corn meal 

1 teaspoon salt 

Mix the ingredients and spread on shallow buttered 
pans to a depth of about one-fourth of an inch. Bake 
in a moderate oven until crisp. This will serve six 
people. 



212 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

SOUR MILK CORN BREAD 
2 cups corn meal 1^ teaspoons salt 

2 cups sour milk 2 eggs 

2 tablespoons butter 1 teaspoon soda 

2 tablespoons sugar, white 1 tablespoon cold water 
or brown 

There are two ways of mixing this bread. By the 
first the meal, milk, salt, butter, and sugar are cooked 
in a double boiler for about 10 minutes. When the 
mixture is cool, the eggs are added well beaten and the 
soda dissolved in the water. By the other method all 
the dry ingredients, including the soda, are mixed 
together, and then the sour milk and eggs well beaten 
and the butter are added. If the second method is 
followed, the cold water is not needed. The bread 
should be baked in a shallow iron or granite pan for 
about 30 minutes. 

Since the bread made by the first method is of much 
better texture, that method is to be preferred, except 
in cases where there is not time for the necessary 
heating and cooling of the meal. 

Buttermilk may be substituted for the sour milk, 
in which case the butter should be increased slightly ; 
or sour cream may be used and the butter omitted. 

SPIDER CORN BREAD 

1^ cups corn meal 1 teaspoon salt 

2 cups sour milk 2 eggs 

1 teaspoon soda 2 teaspoons butter 

Mix the dry ingredients. Add the eggs well beaten 
and the milk. Place the butter in a frying pan, melt 
it, and grease the pan well. Heat the pan and turn in 
the mixture. Place in a hot oven and cook 20 min- 
utes. This serves six people. 



CORN MEAL RECIPES 213 

SWEET MILK CORN BREAD 
2 cups yellow corn meal 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup wheat flour 2 eggs 

2 cups milk 3 teaspoons baking powder 
Yi cup sugar 

Sift together the com meal, flour, sugar, salt, and 
baking powder. Add the eggs well beaten and the 
milk and bake one-half hour in a moderate oven. 

In this case, as in the recipe for sour milk corn 
bread, the corn meal can be cooked for a short time 
with the milk if a softer bread is desired. 

CORN MEAL MUFFINS 

Yz cup corn meal 1 tablespoon melted butter 

1 cup wheat flour 1 teaspoon salt 

3 teaspoons baking powder ^ cup milk 

2 tablespoons sugar 1 egg 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients; add the milk 
gradually, the egg well beaten, and the melted butterj 
bake in a hot oven in buttered gem pans 25 minutes. 

This serves four people. 

CORN MUFFINS WITH DATES 

1 cup white corn meal 1 cup wheat flour 

2 tablespoons brown sugar 4 teaspoons baking powder 

1 teaspoon salt 1 egg 

2 tablespoons butter Y2 cup dates cut into small 
154 cups milk pieces 

Cook together the first five ingredients for 10 min- 
utes in a double boiler. When cool, add the eggs, the 
dates, and the flour sifted with the baking powder. 
Beat thoroughly and bake in muffin pans in a quick 
oven or bake in a loaf. The bread will keep in good 
condition longer if the dates are cooked with the corn 
meal and other ingredients in the double boiler. 



214 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

Variety may be secured by cooking the dates with 
the other ingredients in the double boiler. This serves 
six people. 

CUSTARD CORN CAKE 

2 eggs 1 cup sweet milk 

% cup sugar 1 2/3 cups corn meal 

1 teaspoon soda 1/3 cup wheat flour 

1 teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons butter 

1 cup sour milk 1 cup cream 

Beat the eggs and sugar together thoroughly. Sift 
the flour soda, and salt together and mix with the 
meal. Mix all the ingredients but the cream and 
butter. Melt the butter in a deep pan, using plenty 
on the sides. Pour in the batter, add (without stir- 
ring) a cup of cream, and bake 20 to 30 minutes. When 
cooked there should be a layer of custard on top of 
the cake or small bits of custard distributed through it. 

For economy's sake milk may be used in place of 
the cream in this recipe. This serves six people, 

CORN MEAL ROLLS 

1% cups wheat flour 2 tablespoons butter 

3/4 cup corn meal 1 egg 

3 teaspoons 'making pow- % cup milk 

der 1 teaspoon salt 

Sift together the flour, baking powder, and salt, and 
mix with the meal. Rub the butter into the dry in- 
gredients. Beat the egg, add the milk, and add this 
mixture to the dry ingredients. Add more milk if 
necessary to make a soft dough. Roll out on a floured 
board, handling lightly. Cut with a round biscuit 
cutter, fold like Parker House roUs, and bake in a 
quick oven. This makes 14 small rolls. 



CORN MEAL RECIPES 215 

RAISED CORN MEAL MUFFINS 

1 cup scalded milk 54 yeast cake 

3 tablespoons butter or other J4 cup lukewarm water 

fat 1 cup corn meal 

4 tablespoons sugar 1% cups wheat flour 

1 teaspoon salt 

Add shortening, sugar, and salt to the milk. When 
lukewarm add yeast dissolved in the water, corn meal 
and flour. Beat well; let rise overnight. Beat well 
and half fill greased muffin rings. Let rise until nearly 
double and bake in a hot oven for half an hour. 

This makes 12 muffins. 

SOFT CORN BREAD 
2/3 cup rice 2 or 3 eggs 

% cup white corn meal 2 tablespoons butter 

3 cups milk ^ or milk and 1 teaspoon salt 
water mixed 

Mix the rice, meal and salt with the milk in the top 
of a double boiler, and cook until the rice is nearly 
soft. Add the butter and the eggs well beaten and 
transfer to a greased granite baking pan. Bake in a 
moderate oven for an hour. Serve in the dish in which 
it is baked. 

This serves six people. 

SPOON CORN BREAD 

2 cups water 1 tablespoon butter 
1 cup milk 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup white corn meal 2 eggs 

Mix the water and the corn meal and bring slowly 
to the boiling point and cook 5 minutes. Add the eggs 
well beaten and the other ingredients. Beat thor- 
oughly and bake in a well-greased pan for 25 minutes 
in a hot oven. Serve from the same dish with a spoon. 

This serves six people. 



216 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

STEAMED CORN MEAL BREAD 

2 cups yellow meal IJ/^ teaspoons soda 

1 cup wheat flour 1^ teaspoons salt 

2% cups sour milk J^ cup molasses 

Sift together the flour, soda, and salt, and stir in the 
corn meal, mixing thoroughly. Add the molasses and 
sour milk. Pour into a well-buttered mold, which 
should not be more than two-thirds full. A lard pail 
is a good substitute for the mold. Cover closely and 
steam 5 hours. 

Half this recipe makes just the right amount to 
steam in a 1 -pound coffee tin. This serves eight people. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD 

1 cup corn meal 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup rye meal ^ cup molasses 

1 cup Graham flour 2 cups sour milk, or 

2% teaspoons soda 13^ cups sweet milk 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients and add the molas- 
ses and milk. Beat thoroughly and steam 3^ hours 
in well-buttered, covered molds. Remove the covers 
and bake the bread long enough to dry the top. 

This may be made also with 1^ cups corn meal and 
rye meal and no Graham flour. This serves eight 
people. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD WITH FRUIT 

Follow recipe for Boston brown bread, adding to 
the dry ingredients a cup of seeded and shredded 
raisins or prunes or a cup of Zante currants. 

This serves eight people. 



CORN MEAL RECIPES 217 

CORN MEAL PUFFS 

1 pint milk 4 eggs 

1/3 cup corn meal Grated nutmeg (if de- 

4 tablespoons sugar sired) 

% teaspoon salt 

Cook the milk and meal together 15 minutes with 
the salt and sugar. When cool add the eggs well 
beaten. Bake in cups. Serve with stewed fruit or jam. 

This serves six people. 

CORN MEAL FRITTERS 

By increasing the corn meal in the above recipe by 
half (i.e., to one-half cup) the batter is made stiff 
enough to be dropped into hot fat and fried. This 
serves six people. 

CORN MEAL PANCAKES 

2 cups wheat flour 1 tablespoon melted butter 
54 cup corn meal 1/3 cup sugar 

lYz tablespoons baking pow- 1^ cups boiling water 

der 154 cups milk 

lYz teaspoons salt 1 egg 

Add meal to boiling water and boil 5 minutes ; turn 
into bowl add milk and remaining dry ingredients 
mixed and sifted, then the egg well beaten and butter. 
Cook on a greased griddle. 

This serves six people, 

CORN MEAL AND WHEAT WAFFLES 

15^ cups water der 

y2 cup white corn meal 1^4 teaspoons salt 
lYz cups milk Yolks 2 eggs 

3 cups wheat flour Whites 2 eggs 

3 tablespoons sugar 2 tablespoons melted but- 

1J4 tablespoons baking pow- ter 



218 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

Cook the meal in boiling water 20 minutes; add 
milk, dry ingredients mixed and sifted, yolks of eggs 
well beaten, butter, and whites of eggs beaten stiff. 
Cook on a greased waffle iron. These waffles are 
considered by most people better than those made 
with wheat flour only. This serves six people. 

CORN MEAL AND RICE WAFFLES 

Yz cup corn meal 1 tablespoon melted butter 

Yz cup wheat flour Yz teaspoon soda 

1 cup boiled rice 1 teaspoon salt 

2 eggs well beaten 1 cup sour milk 

Sift together the flour, soda, and salt. Add the 
other ingredients and beat thoroughly. This serves 
six people. 

BUTTERMILK WAFFLES 

3 cups water 2 teaspoons salt 
2 cups corn meal V/z teaspoons soda 

2 cups wheat flour Buttermilk or sour milk 

1 cup sweet milk enough to make a thin 

4 eggs batter 

2 tablespoons butter 

Cook the meal, water, salt and butter together in 
a double boiler for 10 minutes. When the mush is 
cool add the eggs, beaten separately until very light. 
Sift the flour and soda together. Add the flour and 
the sweet milk alternately to the com mixture. Fin- 
ally add the buttermilk. This mixture is improved by 
standing a short time. This serves 10 people. 

CORN MEAL MUSHES 

PLAIN MUSH No. 1 

1 cup corn meal 1 teaspoon salt 

ZYz cups water 



CORN MEAL RECIPES 219 

Bring the salted water to the boiling point in the 
top of a double boiler. Pour the corn meal slowly into 
the water, stirring constantly. Cook 3 minutes. Put 
the upper part of the boiler into the lower part and 
cook the mush half an hour and as much longer as 
convenient. Long cooking improve the taste and 
probably adds to the thoroughness with which the 
mush is digested. 

The housewife who has no double boiler can make 
one by using two saucepans of such size that one can 
be set inside of the other. 

PLAIN MUSH No. 2 

1 cup corn meal 454 cups water, milk, or milk 

1 teaspoon salt and water 

Bring the salted water to the boiling point; add the 
meal slowly, stirring all the time. Put into the fireless 
cooker and leave for 5 to 10 hours. If the pail holding 
the mush is set into another pail containing water be- 
fore being placed into the cooker, the heat will be 
retained longer. Whether this is necessary or not 
depends upon the efficiency of the cooker, 

PLAIN MUSH No. 3 

1 cup meal 4 cups milk, whole or skim, 

1 teaspoon salt or 

3% cups water or 4 cups milk and water 

Put the ingredients into the top of the double boiler 
cold and cook 1 hour or longer. If convenient, just 
before serving bring the mush to the boiling point,, 
This improves its texture and also its flavor. 



220 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

FRIED CORN MEAL MUSH 

The custom of packing, hasty pudding in granite 
pans, cutting it into slices and frying it, is too common 
to call for special mention here. A less common 
method in this country is that employed in Italy, where 
polenta is usually spread out in thin layers on a board 
and cut into small blocks. These blocks are egged 
and crumbed and fried in deep fat. Another method 
is to mix corn meal in three times its volume of water 
and to cook it in water only long enough to form a 
mush, and to complete the cooking by frying the meal 
in butter or other fat. This is not so stiff as ordinary 
fried corn meal mush, and has the advantage of re- 
quiring a shorter time for its preparation, as the tem- 
perature of fat suitable for frying is far greater than 
that of boiling water. 

CORN MEAL MUSH WITH FRUIT 

Corn meal mush is often served with dried fruits, 
particularly with figs and dates. In preparing such 
fruit for use with the mush, it usually is necessary to 
soften it. This can be accomplished easily by wash- 
ing the fruit and then heating it in a slow oven. As a 
result of the heat the water remaining on the fruit is 
absorbed and the fruit softened and also dried on the 
surface. 

CORN MEAL MUSH WITH CHEESE 

For this dish yellow corn meal is generally used. 
For a mush made with one cup of yellow corn meal 
the usual allowance is one-half cup, or 2 ounces, of 
grated cheese. There is, however, no limit to the 



CORN MEAL RECIPES 221 

quantity of cheese which can be added, and the addi- 
tion of the cheese tends not only to make a more 
highly nitrogenous and nourishing dish but also to 
make a dish which can be eaten without the addition 
of butter or cream. Like the ordinary corn meal 
mush, it is often fried either in deep fat, after having 
been egged and crumbed, or in a small amount of fat. 

CHEESE PUDDING 

1 quart boiling water 5^ pound yellow corn meal 

1 tablespoon salt 54 pound cheese 

54 cup milk 

Into the boiling, salted water pour the corn meal 
slowly, stirring constantly, and allow to boil 10 min- 
utes; then add most of the cheese and cook 10 minutes 
more, or until the cheese is melted. Add one-half cup 
of milk and cook a few minutes. Pour into a greased 
baking dish. Brown in the oven. This dish is im- 
proved by grating a little hard cheese over the top just 
before it is baked. 

This pudding can be cut into slices when cold and 
fried. 

This serves four to six people. 

CORN MEAL MUSH WITH PORK 

1 pound lean pork, part meat 1 teaspoon salt 

and part bone 54 teaspoon powdered sage 

1 cup corn meal Water 

Cook the pork in water until the meat can be re- 
moved easily from the bone. Remove the meat, cool 
the broth, and remove the fat. Reduce the broth to 
about a quart, or add water enough to bring it up to 
this amount, and cook the corn meal in it. Add the 



222 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

meat finely chopped and the seasonings. Pack in 
granits bread tins. Cut into slices and fry. Beef may 
be used in the same way. 
This serves six people. 

ROAST PORK WITH BATTER PUDDING 

A dish corresponding to the Yorkshire pudding 
which is frequently served with roast beef can be 
made out of corn meal to serve with roast pork. 

% cup corn meal J^ teaspoon salt 

1 cup milk 2 eggs 

Place the milk, corn meal, and salt in the top of a 
double boiler and cook them about 10 minutes, or until 
the meal has expanded to form a thorough mixture. 
After the mixture has cooled, add the eggs well beaten. 
Grease gem tins thoroughly, allowing to each about 
1 teaspoon of fat from the roast pork. Bake in a mod- 
erate oven, basting occasionally with the drippings of 
the pork. This serves four people. 

CORN MEAL SCRAPPLE 

1 pig's head split in halves Salt and sage 

2 cups corn meal 

Follow the above directions for cooking corn meal 
with pork, but use double the amount of water. 

CORN MEAL FISH BALLS 

2 cups cold white corn meal 1 egg 

mush 1 tablespoon butter 

1 cup shredded codfish 

Pick over the codfish and soak it to remove salt, if 
necessary. Combine the ingredients and drop by 
spoonfuls into hot fat. Drain on porous paper. These 



CORN MEAL RECIPES 223 

codfish balls compare very favorably in taste with 
those made with potato and are prepared more easily 
and quickly. The mush must be as dry as possible. 
This makes 12 fish balls. 

ROAST PORK OR FRIED CHICKEN WITH CORN 
MEAL MUSH 

Blocks of fried corn meal mush are sometimes 
served with roast pork, and are a common accompani- 
ment for fried chicken, particularly in the Southern 
States. The mush is made by the usual method, is 
cooled and cut into slices, and fried a delicate brown 
either in a greased pan or in deep fat. 

For a boiled corn meal and apple dumpling to be 
eaten with roast pork, see recipe below, 

INDIAN PUDDING 

5 cups milk 1 teaspoon salt 
1/3 cup com meal 1 teaspoon ginger 
Yi cup molasses 

Cook milk and meal in a double boiler 20 minutes; 
add molasses, salt, and ginger; pour into buttered 
pudding dish and bake 2 hours in slow oven; serve 
with cream. This serves eight people, 

CORN MEAL AND FIG PUDDING 

1 cup corn meal 1 cup finely chopped figs 

1 cup molasses 2 eggs 

6 cups milk (or 4 of milk 1 teaspoon salt 

and 2 of cream) 

Cook the corn meal with 4 cups of milk, add the 
molasses, figs and salt. When the mixture is cool, 
add the eggs well beaten. Pour into a buttered pud- 
ding dish and bake in a moderate oven for 3 hours or 



224 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

more. When partly cooked add the remainder of the 
milk without stirring the pudding. This serves eight 
or ten people. 

CORN MEAL AND APPLE PUDDING 

For the figs in the above recipe substitute a pint of 
finely sliced or chopped sweet apples. 

This serves eight or ten people. 

INDIAN MEAL DOUGHNUTS 

^ cup milk 2 eggs well beaten 

1% cups very fine white corn 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

meal 2 teaspoons baking powder 

lJ/$ cups wheat flour 1 level teaspoon salt 

% cup butter % cup sugar 

Put milk and meal into a double boiler and heat to- 
gether for about 10 minutes. Add the butter and sugar 
to the meal. Sift together the wheat flour, baking 
powder, cinnamon and salt. Add these and the eggs 
to the meal. Roll out on a well-floured board; cut 
into the desired shapes ; fry in deep fat ; drain and roll 
in powdered sugar. 

This makes 30 medium-sized doughnuts. 

MOLASSES CORN CAKE 

2 cups yellow corn meal 1 cup sour milk 

% cup molasses 1% cups sweet milk 

Yz cup sugar 1 cup wheat flour 

2 tablespoons butter IJ/^ teaspoons soda 

1 teaspoon salt 1 egg 

Mix the first seven ingredients in a double boiler 
and cook over hot water. Cook for about 25 minutes 
after the mixture has become hot. After it has cooled 
add the wheat flour and soda, thoroughly sifted to- 



HONEY RECIPES 225 

gether, and the egg well beaten. Bake in a shallow 
tin. This serves six people. 

CORN MEAL GINGERBREAD 

To the above recipe add 1^/^ teaspoons ginger, 1^^ 
teaspoons, and Y^ teaspoon cloves, sifting them with 
the flour. 

This serves six people. 

FRUIT GEMS 

Yz cup corn meal 1 cup milk 

1 cup wheat flour 1 cup currants or raisins 
3 teaspoons baking powder 2 eggs 

2 tablespoons sugar 1 tablespoon flour reserved 
2 tablespoons melted butter for flouring currants or 
1 teaspoon salt raisins 

Mix and sift the dry ingredients ; add the milk grad- 
ually, the eggs well beaten, melted butter, and raisins, 
which have been floured. Bake in a hot oven in but- 
tered gem pans 25 minutes. 

This makes 12 cakes. 



47 HONEY RECIPES 

Taken From 

FARMERS' BULLETIN NO. 653 

BRAN BROWN BREAD 

1 cup white or whole wheat 1 cup bran 

flour Yz, cup honey 

1 teaspoon soda 1 cup sour milk 

54 teaspoon ssilt Yi cup raisins floured 

Sift together the flour, soda and salt, and add the 
other ingredients. Steam three hours or bake 40 min- 
utes in a slow oven. If the amount of milk is increased 



226 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

by half, the bread is more delicate and has a somewhat 
higher food value. 

STEAMED BROWN BREAD 

1 cup yellow corn meal 1 teaspoon salt 

2 cups graham flour 1^ teaspoons soda 

2/3' cup honey 1 tablesspoon boiling water 

2 cups sour milk 1 cup seeded raisins 

Mix together the meal, flour and salt; add the sour 

milk and the honey and then the soda dissolved in 

the boiling water; and the raisins. Steam three hours 

in covered receptacles, which should be not more than 

two-thirds full at the beginning of the cooking. 

HONEY BREAD 

2 cups honey 4 teaspoons powdered car- 
4 cups rye flour damon seed. 

1 teaspoon soda 2 egg yolks 

4 teaspoons aniseed Y^ cup brown sugar 

2 teaspoons ginger 

Sift the flour with the spices and soda and add the 
other ingredients. Put the dough into shallow but- 
tered pans to the depth of about an inch and bake in 
a hot oven. 

HONEY AND NUT BRAN MUFFINS 
^ cup honey 2 cups bran 

1 cup flour 1 tablespoon melted butter 

^ to 5^ teaspoon soda 1^ cups milk 

J4 teaspoon salt ^ cup finely chopped Eng~ 

lish walnuts. 

Sift together the f!our, soda, and salt, and mix them 
with the bran. Add the other ingredients and bake for 
25 or 30 minutes in a hot oven in gem tins. This 
will make about 16 large muffins, each of which may 
be considered roughly to be a 100-calorie portion and 
to contain 2 grams of protein. 



HONEY RECIPES 227 

HONEY AND NUT SANDWICHES 

Mix the honey with pecan meats or almonds minced, 
and make into sandwiches with small baking powder 
biscuits. 

HONEY AND CREAM CHEESE SANDWICHES 

Mix honey with cream cheese and use as filling for 
bread or baking powder biscuit sandwiches. Chopped 
nut may be added to the honey and cheese if desired. 

HARD HONEY CAKE 

% cup honey % teaspoon cloves 

14 cup sugar Speck white peper 

2% cups flour Speck salt 

1 egg 54 teaspoon soda 

54 teaspoon ginger 1 tablespoon water 

1 teaspoon cinnamon 2 ounces blanched almonds 

54 teaspoon ground carda- cut small pieces or 

mon seed chopped. 

Sift together the flour and spices, dissolve the soda 
in the water, beat the egg and combine all the ingre- 
dients. Beat or knead the mixture thoroughly. Cook 
a small sample. If it does not rise sufficiently, add 
a little more soda and honey; if it falls, add a little 
more flour. Roll out the dough to the thickness of 
about three-fourths of an inch and bake in a hot oven. 
When the cake is done glaze it with a thick sirup of 
sugar and water and allow it to dry in a slow oven 
or in some other warm place. While it is still warm, 
cut it into long strips. Or it may be left in one large 
cake, to be cut into very thin slices when served. This 
cake will become very hard on cooling and will not 
be soft enough to eat for several weeks, but will keep 
in good condition for an indefinite length of time. 



228 FOOD EFFICIENCY 



BUTTER HONEY CAKE 

1/^ cups honey 5 cups flour 

Yz cup butter V/z teaspoons soda 

3 egg yolks 2 tablespoons orange flower 

2 teaspoons ground cinna- water (water may be 

mon substituted). 

Vz teaspoon salt Whites 3 eggs 

Rub together the honey and butter; add the un- 
beaten yolks and beat thoroughly. Add the flour sifted 
with the cinnamon and the salt; and the soda dis- 
solved in the orange-flower water. Beat the mixture 
thoroughly and add the well-beaten whites of the 
eggs. Bake in shallow tins and cover with frosting 
made as follows: 



ORANGE FROSTING FOR BUTTER HONEY CAKE 

Grated rind 1 orange 1 egg yolk 

1 teaspoon lemon juice Confectioners' sugar 

1 tablespoon orange juice 

Mix all ingredients but the sugar and allow the 
mixture to stand for an hour. Strain and add con- 
fectioners' sugar until the frosting is sufficiently thick 
to be spread on the cake. 

For the cinnamon in the Butter Honey Cake the 
following mixture of spices may be substituted: 

Yz teaspoon ginger 54 teaspoon nutmeg 

2 teaspoons cinnamon ^ teaspoon white pepper 

1 teaspoon ground carda- Chopped citron or nuts may 

mon seed also be added. 

1 teaspoon cloves 

This mixture may also be flavored with ging'^r, 
aniseed or cardamom seed. 



HONEY RECIPES 229 

BUTTER HONEY CAKE NO. 2 
1 cup honey 3 cups flour 

Yi cup butter 54 to 1 teaspoon soda 

54 teaspoon ginger 1 ounce candied lemon peel 

54 teaspoon cinnamon 1 ounce candied orange peel 

1 teaspoon ground carda- or 

mon seed 1 cup seeded raisins 

3 eggs 

Mix the honey and butter by warming slightly and 
stirring; add the spices and the yolks of the eggs un- 
beaten and beat the mixture thoroughly. Add the 
flour and the soda dissolved in a little water, then the 
whites of the eggs beaten stiff, and finally the fruit. 
Bake in a moderate oven, 

NUT HONEY CAKE 

2 cups brown sugar Yz teaspoon allspice _ 

2 cups honey 1 cup chopped raisins 

6 egg yolks 5^ ounce citron cut in small 

3 cups flour pieces 

Speck of salt 5^ ounce candied orange peel 

1J4 teaspoons soda cut in small pieces 

3 teaspoons ground cinna- 54 pound almonds coarsely 

mon chopped 

54 teaspoon ground cloves Whites of 3 eggs. 

54 teaspoon ground nutmeg 

Mix the sugar, honey and the yolks of the eggs and 
beat thoroughly. Sift together the flour, salt, spices 
and soda. Combine all ingredients but the whites of 
the eggs. Beat the whites of the eggs till they are 
stiff and add them last. Pour the dough to the depth 
of about half an inch into well-buttered tins and bake 
in a slow oven for one-half hour, 

FROSTING FOR NUT HONEY CAKE 

15^ cups sugar 54 cup water 

3 egg whites 

Boil the sugar and water until the sirup forms a 



230 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

thread when dropped from the spoon. While still hot, 
pour the sirup over the well-beaten whites of the 
eggs, beating the mixture until it is of the right con- 
sistency to spread. 

CHOCOLATE NUT HONEY CAKE 

To the above cake add 3 ounces of chocolate grated. 

SOFT HONEY CAKE 

Yz cup butter 1 teaspoon soda 

1 cup honey y^ teaspoon cinnamon 

1 egg i/^ teaspoon ginger 

Yz cup sour milk 4 cups flour 

Rub the butter and honey together; add the egg 
well beaten, then the sour milk and the flour sifted 
with the soda and spices. Bake in a shallow pan. 

HONEY SPONGE CAKE 

Vz cup sugar 4 eggs 

Yz cup honey 1 cup sifted flour 

Mix the sugar and honey and boil until the sirup 
will spin a thread when dropped from the spoon. 
Pour the sirup over the yolks of the eggs which have 
been beaten until light. Beat this mixture until cold; 
then add the flour and cut and fold the beaten whites 
of the eggs into the mixture. Bake for 40 to 50 min- 
utes in a pan lined with buttered paper, in a slow 
oven. 

This cake can be made with a cupful of unheated 
honey in place of the honey and sugar sirup, but the 
quality is not quite so good, 

HONEY POUND CAKE 

A good pound cake can be made by using equal 



HONEY RECIPES 231 

weights of honey, sugar, eggs, flour and butter. A 
little soda should be added because of the acidity of 
the honey, and a good flavoring is cardamom seed 
and orange-flower water. Or a cake similar to pound 
cake may be made as follows; 

1 cup sugar 54 teaspoon powdered carda- 

54 cup honey mon seed 

1 cup butter ^ teaspoon soda 

4 eggs Yz teaspoon orange flower 

2 cups pastry flour water 

Rub together the butter and sugar and add the 
honey. Add the yolks of the eggs well beaten. Fi- 
nally, add the whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff 
froth, and the orange-flower water. Add gradually 
the flour sifted with the soda and cardamom seed. 
Beat the mixture for 10 minutes. Put the dough into 
a warm tin with high sides, and bake in a slow oven 
for one hour. 



RIBBON CAKE 

Utilizing candied honey as filling 

Yz cup butter V/t, teaspoons ginger 

2 cups sugar 3^^ teaspoons cinnamon 

4 eggs 54 teaspoon cloves 

1 cup milk 1/3 cup raisins, seeded and 
354 cups flour cut in pieces 

5 teaspoons baking powder 1/3 cup figs, finely chopped 
V/z teaspoons ground carda- 1 tablespoon honey 

mon seed 

Rub the butter and sugar together and add the yolks 
of the eggs. Sift together the flour and baking pow- 
der and add them to the mixture, alternating them 
with the milk. Finally, add the whites of the eggs 



232 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

well beaten. Bake two-thirds of the mixture in two 
layer cake pans. To the remainder add spices, fruit 
and honey, and bake in a layer cake pan. Put layers 
together with crystallized honey. 

HONEY FRUIT CAKE 

3 cups flour lYz pounds currants 

2 teaspoons soda 1 pound citron 

354 cups honey 1 pound candied cherries 

1 cup butter 1 pound candied apricots 
6 eggs 1 pound candied pineapple 

2 teaspoons cinnamon 54 cup sour jelly, or 

2 teaspoons ginger 54 cup white grape juice 

2 teaspoons ground carda- 2 teaspoons vanilla 

mon seed 2 ounces candied orange 

54 teaspoon cloves peel 

3 pounds raisins (seeded) 2 ounces candied lemon peel 

Cut the candied fruit into small pieces, with the ex- 
ception of the cherries, which should be left whole. 
Place the fruit in a large dish and sift over it one- 
half of the flour, mixing thoroughly. Sift the soda 
with the remainder of the flour. Bring the honey and 
the butter to boiling point and while still hot add the 
spices. When the mixture is cool, add the well-beaten 
yolks of the eggs, then the flour and grape juice or 
jelly and the well beaten whites. Finally, add the 
fruit. The cake should be divided into three or four 
parts and put into buttered dishes covered with but- 
tered paper tied closely over the tops. Steam for five 
hours, remove the paper and bake in a very slow oven 
for an hour. This makes a very rich cake consisting 
chiefly of fruit. For the sake of economy, the flour 
can be increased to even twice the quantity without 
affecting the quality very much. 



HONEY FRUIT CAKE NO. 


2 


4 cups flour 


3 


3 teaspoons soda 




2 cups honey 


3 


1 cup butter 


4 


6 eggs 


1 


2 teaspoons cinnamon 


1 


2 teaspoons ginger 


1 


y^ teaspoon cloves 


1 



HONEY RECIPES 233 



teaspoons ground carda- 

mon seed 
pounds raisins (seeded) 
ounces citron 
pound cranberries 
pound canned pineapple 
pound dried apricots 
pound dried apples 

To prepare the cranberries, pineapples, apricots and 

apples, cook each in honey till it is soft ; remove from 

the honey and dry in a very slow oven. A little water 

should be added to the honey in which the cranberries 

are cooked, a good proportion of ingredients being 

equal weights of cranberries, water and honey. To 

any honey left over from cooking the fruits add enough 

honey to make up the total amount called for by the 

recipe. Mix and cook the cake in the same manner as 

honey fruit cake No. 1, 

HONEY DROP CAKES 

^ cup honey 1^ to 2 cups flour 

54 cup butter y^ teaspoon soda 

y^ teaspoon cinnamon 2 tablespoons water 

y^ teaspoon cloves 1 cup raisins, cut into small 

1 egg pieces 

Heat the honey and butter until the butter melts. 
While the mixture is warm add the spices. When it 
is cold add part of the flour; the egg well beaten, the 
soda dissolved in the water, and the raisins. Add 
enough more flour to make a dough that will hold its 
shape. Drop by spoonfuls on a buttered tin and bake 
in a moderate oven. 

YELLOW HONEY CAKE 

y^ cup sugar 54 teaspoon cinnamon 

2 egg yolks y^ teaspoon cloves 
2/3 cup honey V/i cups flour 



234 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

Sift together the flour and the spices. Mix the 
sugar and egg yolks, add the honey, and then the flour 
gradually. Roll out thin, moisten the surface with 
egg white, and mark into small squares. Bake in a 
moderate oven. 



HONEY COOKIES NO. 1 

2/3 cup honey 1 teaspoon allspice 

2/3 cup sugar 2 ounces finely chopped 

2^^ cups flour candied orange peel 

14 teaspoon soda 54 pound walnut meats finely 

1^ teaspoons cinnamon chopped 

1 teaspoon cloves 

Sift together the flour, spices and soda and add the 
other ingredients. Knead thoroughly, roll out thin, 
and cut with a biscuit cutter. These cookies are very 
hard. 

HONEY COOKIES NO. 2 

^ cup honey 1 teaspoon ground cinna- 

2/3 cup sugar mon 

% cup milk 1/2 cup finely chopped al- 

3 tablespoons lard monds 

2 egg yolks 54 teaspoon soda or 2 tea- 

4 cups flour spoons baking powder 
{^ teaspoon salt 

Bring the first four ingredients to the boiling point 
and allow the mixture to cool. Sift together the flour, 
cinnamon and soda or baking powder. Combine all 
the ingredients. Roll the mixture out thin on a floured 
board. Cut out and bake in a moderate oven on tins 
which have been greased and floured. To prepare the 
tins properly, brush them over with melted butter and 
sifted flour, turn them over and shake off as much as 
possible of the flour. 



HONEY RECIPES 235 

HONEY COOKIES NO. 3 

J4 cup water 1 teaspoon soda 

1 pound brown sugar or 6 cups flour 

cups packed solidly 1 teaspoon powdered carda- 
5^ cup lard mon seed 

1 cup honey 1 teaspoon cinnamon 
1/3 cup egg yolks 

Heat the water, sugar, lard and honey until the lard 

is melted. When cool, add the yolks of the eggs and 

the flour, sifted with the soda and spices. Roll out 

on a floured board and cut into any desired shape. 

Place a small piece of citron in the middle of each 

cooky. 

HONEY BRAN COOKIES NO. 1 

2 tablespoons butter 1 cup bran 
Yi cup honey Yz cup flour 

2 eggs y% teaspoon powdered aniseed 
54 to ^ teaspoon soda 

Rub together the butter and honey; add the eggs 
unbeaten and beat the mixture thoroughly. Sift to- 
gether the flour, soda and aniseed. Combine all the 
ingredients, drop from a teaspoon on to a buttered tin 
and bake in a moderate oven. 

HONEY BRAN COOKIES NO. 2 

3 cups bran 54 teaspoon ginger 
y^ cup sugar 5^ cup honey 

54 to 5^ teaspoon soda 54 cup milk 

54 teaspoon cinnamon 5^ cup melted butter 

Mix the sugar, cinnamon, ginger, and soda with the 

bran and add the other ingredients. Drop from a 

spoon upon a buttered pan and bake about 15 minutes. 

ROLLED HONEY WAFERS NO. 1 

54 cup butter 54 teaspoon powdered carda- 

34 cup honey mon or aniseed 

y% cup flour 



236 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

Mix together the butter and honey and add the flour, 
sifted with the spice. Spread out very thin with a 
broad long-bladed knife or spatula on a buttered, in- 
verted dripping pan, or on flat tins made for the pur- 
pose. Mark off in 3-inch squares and bake in a slow 
oven until delicately browned. While warm, roll into 
tubular shape and hold until they cool and, if neces- 
sary, until they harden into shape. Honey wafers 
are not quite so tender as those made with sugar, 

ROLLED HONEY WAFERS NO. 2 

Y/^ cup honey 1/6 cup milk 

54 cup sugar 54 teaspoon cardamon or 

54 cup butter aniseed 

l/i cup flour 

Cream the butter; add the sugar, honey and flour 
in the order named, and the milk very gradually. Cook 
as rolled honey wafers No. 1. 

NOUGAT WAFERS 

Yz cup butter 4 .teaspoons ginger, or 

1 cup brown sugar 2 teaspoons powdered car- 

Y2 cup milk damon or aniseed 

7/^ cup bread flour 

Rub together the butter and the sugar and add alter- 
nately the milk and the flour sifted with the spices. 
Spread in a very thin layer on the bottom of an in- 
verted dripping pan or on flat tins made for the pur- 
pose. Mark off into pieces about an inch wide and 4 
inches long and put together in pairs with honey 
nougat filling made as follows; 

HONEY FILLING FOR NOUGAT WAFERS 

1 cup sugar 54 cup water 

Yi cup honey 2 egg whites 



HONEY RECIPES 237 

Boil the sugar, water and honey together until the 
sirup makes a thread when dropped from a spoon or 
until drops of it hold their shape when poured into 
cold water. Beat the eggs to a stiff froth, pour the 
sirup over them, put the dish holding the mixture in 
a place where it will keep warm but not cook rapidly, 
beat until it will hold its shape, 

HONEY RISSOLES 

Pastry covering for Rissoles 

1/3 cup lard 2/3 cup water 

2 egg yolks J4 cup brown sugar 

1 egg white Flour 

Mix together all the ingredients but the flour and 
add enough of that to make a stifif dough. Roll out 
as thin as a knife blade, cut into round or square 
pieces, taking care to avoid the necessity of rolling 
out the second time, as this is likely to make the dough 
very tough. A honey filling is used with this dough 
and is made as follows ; 

HONEY FILLING FOR RISSOLES 

1 cup honey Rye bread crumbs 

2 ounces candied orange Aniseed 

peel 

Bring the honey to the boiling point, remove from 
the stove, and add as much bread crumbs as it will 
moisten while it is hot. Add the orange peel and 
enough powdered aniseed to give a decided flavor. 
Roll this filling into small balls and lay one in the 
center of each piece of pastry; fold the pastry over 
and press the edges together. Bake in a hot oven. 



238 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

BAKED HONEY CUSTARD 

5 eggs % teaspoon powdered cinna- 
14 cup honey mon 

4 cups scalded milk % teaspoon salt 

Beat the eggs sufficintly to unite the yolks and 
whites, but not enough to make them foamy. Add 
the other ingredients and bake in cups or in a large 
pan in a moderate oven. The baking dishes should be 
set in water, 

BOILED HONEY CUSTARD 

2 cups milk % cup honey 

3 egg yolks % teaspoon salt 

Mix the honey, eggs and salt. Scald the milk and 
pour it over the eggs. Cook in a double boiler until 
the mixture thickens. This custard is suitable for 
use in place of cream on gelatin desserts, or to be 
poured over sliced oranges or stewed fruit, 

HONEY PUDDING 

^ cup honey 5^ teaspoon ginger 

6 ounces bread crumbs 2 egg yolks 

54 cup milk 2 tablespoons butter 

Rind of half a lemon 2 egg whites 

Mix the honey and the bread crumbs and add the 
milk, seasonings, and yolks of the eggs. Beat the mix- 
ture thoroughly and then add the butter and the 
whites of the eggs well beaten. Steam for about 
two hours in a pudding mold which is not more than 
three-quarters full, 

HONEY CHARLOTTE RUSSE 

1 quart cream J/^ cup delicately flavored 

6 lady fingers honey 



HONEY RECIPES 239 

Chill the honey by placing the dish containing it in 
a pan of ice water. Whip the cream and add it to the 
honey, mixing the two well. Line a dish with lady 
fingers and fill it with the honey and cream. Serve 
very cold, 

HONEY MOUSSE 

4 eggs 1 cup hot, delicately flavored 

1 pint cream honey 

Beat the eggs slightly and slowly pour over them the 
hot honey. Cook until the mixture thickens. When 
it is cool, add the cream whipped. Put the mixture 
into a mold, pack in salt and ice, and let it stand three 
or four hours, 



HONEY ICE CREAM NO. 1 

1 quart thin cream honey 

^ cup delicately flavored 

Mix ingredients and freeze. 



HONEY ICE CREAM NO. 2 

1 pint milk 1 cup honey 
Yolks 6 eggs 1 pint cream 

Heat the milk in a double boiler. Beat together the 
honey and eggs, add the hot milk, return the mixture 
to the double boiler, and cook it until it thickens. 
Add the cream and when the mixture is cool, freeze it. 

SAUCE FOR ICE CREAM 

2 tablespoons butter ^ cup honey 
2 teaspoons cornstarch 

Cook together the cornstarch and butter thoroughly, 
being careful not to brown them. Add the honey and 



240 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

cook the mixture until it becomes hard when dropped 
into cold water and until all taste of raw cornstarch 
has been removed. 

PUDDING SAUCE 

If a small quantity of water be added to the above 
sauce, its consistency is entirely changed; it becomes 
thinner and cannot be made brittle even by dropping 
it into cold water. It is suitable for serving on vari- 
ous kinds of puddings. 

STRAWBERRY SAUCE 

Strawberry sauce, for puddings or boiled rice, which 
is usually made by mixing butter, sugar and mashed 
berries, is a good means of securing the strawberry 
flavor at times when berries are too high-priced to be 
used in large quantities. The substitution of honey 
for sugar has proved to be practicable. In fact, it obvi- 
ates one of the chief difficulties in making this sauce— ^ 
the tendency to curdle. 

2 tablespoons butter Yz cup honey 

2/3 cup mashed strawberries 

Beat together the honey and butter. Add the straw- 
berries slowly, keeping the mixture cool by setting 
the dish in water. Serve on boiled rice or cottage 
pudding. 

SALAD DRESSING 
4 egg yolks 1 teaspoon mustard 

2 tablespoons vinegar or 1 teaspoon salt 

lemon juice Paprika to taste 

2 tablespoons butter 1 cup cream 

2 tablespoons honey 



HOW TO PREPARE VEGETABLES 241 

Heat the cream in a double boiler. Beat the eggs, 
and add to them all the other ingredients but the 
cream. Pour the cream slowly over the mixture, beat- 
ing constantly. Pour it into the double boiler and 
cook until it thickens, or mix all the ingredients but 
the cream and cook in a double boiler until the mix- 
ture thickens. As the dressing is needed combine this 
mixture with whipped cream. This dressing is par- 
ticularly suitable for fruit salads. 

NOUGAT 

3/8 cup honey 1 pound almonds 

Yz cup brown sugar 2 egg whites 

Boil the honey and sugar together until drops of 
the mixture hold their shape when poured into cold 
water. Add the whites of the eggs, well beaten, and 
cook very slowly, stirring constantly, until the mix- 
ture becomes brittle when dropped into water. Add 
the almonds and cool under a weight. The candy can 
be broken into pieces, or may be cut and wrapped in 
w^axed paper. 

HONEY FUDGE 

2 cups sugar 1/3 cup water 

1/3 cup honey 2 egg whites 

1 teaspoon of vanilla extract 

Boil together the sugar, honey and water until the 
sirup spins a thread when dropped from a spoon 
(about 250 degrees F.). Pour the sirup over the well- 
beaten whites of the eggs, beating continuously and 
until the mixture crystallizes, adding the flavoring 
after the mixture has cooled a little. Drop in small 
pieces on buttered or paraffin paper. The vanilla may 
be omitted. 



242 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

HONEY CARAMELS 
2 cups granulated sugar 54 cup honey 

y2 cup cream or milk J4 cup butter 

Mix the ingredients ; heat and stir until the sugar is 
dissolved; then cook without stirring until a firm ball 
can be formed from a little of the mixture dropped into 
cold water. Beat the mixture until it crystallizes, 
pour into buttered pans, and cut into squares. The 
addition of pecan nuts improves these caramels. 

HONEY POPCORN BALLS 

Honey can be heated up to about 245 degrees F. 
without being greatly changed in color or flavor. If 
it is heated carefully most of the water is expelled. 
The honey then becomes hard on cooling and can be 
used for making popcorn balls. To make them, dip 
the popped corn into the hot honey, shape into balls 
and cool. Honey popcorn balls absorb moisture on 
standing in the air. They must therefore be either 
kept very closely covered or reheated and dried before 
being used. 

HOW TO PREPARE VEGETABLES 

from 

U. S. BULLETIN NO. 47 

BOILED ASPARAGUS 

Wash, trim, remove the woody part of the stems, 
and tie asparagus in bundles, or cut in 1-inch lengths. 
Put in salted water and boil slowly in an uncovered 
saucepan until stalks are tender. Season with butter, 
salt, and pepper, or with a white sauce. Serve on hot 
toast if desired. 



HOW TO PREPARE VEGETABLES 243 

BOSTON BAKED BEANS 

1 quart navy beans 2 tablespoons molasses 

1 tablespoon salt 1 cup boiling water 

J4 tablespoon mustard "%, pound fat salt pork 
3 tablespoons sugar Boiling water to cover 

Pick beans over and soak in cold water over night. 

In the morning drain, cover with fresh water, and 
heat slowly until the skins burst, but do not let the 
beans become broken. 

Scald Yz pound fat salt pork; scrape it; put a slice 
in the bottom of the bean pot. Cut the remaining 
pork across top in strips just through the rind, and 
bury the pork in the beans, leaving the rind exposed. 

Add 1 cup boiling water to seasonings and pour 
over the beans. Cover with boiling water. Bake 
slowly, adding more water as necessary. Bake from 
6 to 8 hours ; uncover at the last so that the water will 
evaporate and beans brown on top. Serves 12, 

BEAN SOUP 

1 quart dried beans 2 quarts cold water 

1 tablespoon chopped onion 2 teaspoons salt 

54 pound fat salt pork 54 teaspoon Cayenne pepper 

2 stalks celery, or 54 teaspoon mustard 
54 teaspoon celery salt. 2 tablespoons flour 

Wash the beans and soak them over night in cold 
water, drain, and rinse thoroughly. Fry the onions 
in one-half the fat, put with beans, add the celery salt 
and 2 quarts of cold water. Cook slowly until the 
beans are soft, adding more water as it boils away; 
rub through a strainer, add the seasonings, and re- 
heat. Heat the remaining fat in a saucepan, add flour, 
then add the hot soup gradually. 



244 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

GREEN LIMA BEANS 

Cover 1 quart of the shelled beans with boiling 
water. Boil up quickly at first, then boil slowly until 
done (45 to 60 minutes), allowing water to boil away 
at the last. When tender pour off a part of the water 
if too much remains. Season the beans with a tea- 
spoonful of salt and 2 heaping tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter, or serve with a white sauce. 

CABBAGE SALAD 

3 cups finely shaved cabbage 1 recipe cream salad dress- 
ing 



CREAM SALAD DRESSING 

1 cup thick cream, sweet or 1 teaspoon salt 

sour Yg teaspoon white pepper 

6 tablespoons vinegar Cayenne 
4 tablespoons sugar 

Add vinegar and seasonings to cream and stir until 
sugar is dissolved. Serves 10. 



CABBAGE AND PEANUT SALAD 

3 cups finely shaved cabbage 1 recipe cooked salad dress- 
1 cup finely chopped pea- ing 

nuts 

Combine cabbage and peanuts, add salad dressing. 
Chill thoroughly and serve. Serves 10 to 12. 



COLE SLAW 
3 cups shaved cabbage 1 recipe cooked dressing 

Pour cooked dressing (while hot) over shaved cab- 
bage, mix well, chill and serve. Serves 10 to 12. 



HOW TO PREPARE VEGETABLES 245 

COOKED SALAD DRESSING 

1 teaspoon salt 2 eggs 

Yi teaspoon mustard Yz cup milk (heated) 
Cayenne 2 teaspoons butter 

1 teaspoon sugar Ya, cup vinegar (heated) 

Mix salt, mustard, cayenne, and sugar together until 
well blended; add egg, mix thoroughly; add the hot 
milk and butter, and cook in double boiler until it 
thickens, stirring constantly. Remove from the fire 
and stir in the heated vinegar. If it curdles, place 
upper part of double boiler in cold water, and beat 
with an egg beater until smooth. Good for cole slaw 
and potato salad. Serves 10. 

BOILED CABBAGE 

Cut cabbage into quarters and soak one-half hour 
in cold salt water to draw out insects. Cut in large 
pieces or chop. Cook until tender in alarge amount of 
boiling water — about 20 minutes. Leave kettle un- 
covered. Drain and serve with butter, salt, pepper 
and vinegar if desired, or with a white sauce. 

CABBAGE BOILED WITH PORK OR CORNED BEEF 
If cabbage is to be cooked with boiled salt pork or 
corned beef, add it to the boiled meat one-half hour 
before it is to be served and boil vigorously till ten- 
der, leaving the kettle uncovered. 

SCALLOPED CABBAGE 

3 cups chopped cabbage Ya teaspoon white pepper 

2 tablespoons butter or IJ^ cups milk 

other fat 1 cup bread crumbs to 

3 tablespoons flour which 1 tablespoon but- 
Y» teaspoon salt ter or other fat is added 



246 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

Boil cabbage until tender, drain well, put into a 
well-greased baking dish, and pour over it a white 
sauce made of the butter, flour, salt, pepper and milk. 
Cover with the buttered crumbs. Bake in a moderate 
oven until the crumbs are a golden brown, about 15 
minutes. Serves 6 or 8. 

The same recipe may be used to prepare scalloped 
potatoes, scalloped corn, scalloped asparagus, scal- 
loped cauliflower, scalloped onions, and scalloped 
carrots, 



CREAMED CABBAGE 
1 pint boiled cabbage 



1 recipe white sauce 



WHITE SAUCE 

2 tablespoons butter or other 1 cup milk (heated) 

fat Vt. teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons flour Vs, teaspoon white pepper 

Heat the butter. When it bubbles add flour and 
seasonings, add hot milk gradually, stirring constantly 
and allowing the mixture to thicken and bubble each 
time before adding another portion of milk. Boil up 
once and sauce is ready to serve. 

Pour the white sauce over the boiled cabbage, heat 
till bubbling, and serve hot. 

SAUERKRAUT 

When ready to use sauer kraut, drain and boil till 
tender in hot water or cook in hot fat. Season to 
taste. 

SAUERKRAUT WITH FRESH PORK 

Cover sauer kraut with boiHng water, add fresh 



HOW TO PREPARE VEGETABLES 247 

pork and boil until the meat is very tender and falls 
from the bones. Remove the bones. Season to taste. 

CREAMED CARROTS 

1 pint carrots (See recipe for "creamed 

1 recipe medium white sauce cabbage") 

Scrape the carrots lightly; then cut into large dice 
or slices. Young carrots may be cooked whole. If 
the heart of old carrots is hard and woody, remove it 
before cooking. Put into a stewpan with boiling 
salted water to cover, allowing a teaspoonful of salt 
for a quart of water, and boil until tender. Young 
carrots will cook in 30 minutes and the water should 
be allowed to boil away. Old carrots require 45 min- 
utes boiling. Drain well and add to the white sauce. 
Serves 6. 

CREAM OF CARROT SOUP 

1 pint carrots, sliced 11^ quarts hot milk 

2 tablespoons butter 2 teaspoons salt 

4 tablespoons flour 54 teaspoon pepper 

Cook carrots until very tender in enough boiling 
water to cover, then rub all through a strainer with 
a wooden spoon. 

Heat butter, add flour and then the carrot mixture, 
and when it boils well add hot milk and seasoning. 
Serve at once. Serves 6. 

CAULIFLOWER AU GRATIN 

2 cups chopped cauliflower 1 cup milk or cream 

2 tablespoons butter 1 teaspoon onion juice 

2 tablespoons flour J^ cup bread crumbs 

J4 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon butter, melted 

Dash of pepper 2 tablespoons grated cheese 



248 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

Boil cauliflower in salted water till tender — about 
30 minutes. 

Prepare white sauce with 2 tablespoons butter, 
flour, salt, papper, and milk. Add onion juice and 
cheese. Put cauliflower in baking dish, cover with 
white sauce, and sprinkle with buttered crumbs. Bake 
in a moderate oven until crumbs are a golden brown — 
about 15 minutes. Serves 6 to 8. 

TO CLEAN CELERY 

Separate stalks from the root and wash each stalk 
thoroughly. Scrape with knife if not perfectly white. 
Cut off leaves and keep them for garnishing or for 
flavoring soup. Serve all the delicate, crisp stalks un- 
cooked, with salt. Reserve coarse or broken stalks, 
leaves and roots for cooking. 

STEWED CELERY 
3 stalks celery 1 recipe medium white sauce 

Wash and scrape the celery, cut in one-half inch 
pieces, cover with boiling water and cook until tender 
(20 to 30 minutes), drain and serve with a white sauce, 
using the water in which the celery has been cooked 
as stock in the sauce. Serves 6. 

CREAM OF CELERY SOUP 

V/2 cups celery 2 tablespoons butter 

1 pint water 54 cup flour 

1 cup milk (heated) 5^ teaspoon salt 

1 cup cream (heated) Ys teaspoon white pepper 

Cook the celery in boiling water until very soft; 
strain. Make a white sauce with butter, flour, season- 
ings, milk, and cream, and cook until the consistency 



HOW TO PREPARE VEGETABLES 249 

of thick cream, add celery stock or liquid just before 
serving. Serve with whipped cream if desired. 
Serves 4. 

CORN ON THE COB 

After removing the husks and silk, trim the cobs if 
they have been unevenly developed or are imperfect 
in any way. Put into boiling salted water and after 
the water has come to a boil continue the boiling from 
5 to 15 minutes. The corn is done as soon as the 
milk in a kernel has thickened. This can be tested by 
trying one kernel. If boiled for a long time the com 
becomes hard and its flavor is impaired. Serve hot. 

STEWED CORN 

Cut the fresh com from the cob, scraping as much 
pulp from the cob as possible. Season with salt and 
pepper, add a little milk and butter, and simmer a 
few minutes on top of the stove or in the oven. 

SCALLOPED CORN 

1 quart corn 3 tablespoons butter or 

2/3 cup milk other fat 

1% teaspoons salt 2 cups stale bread crumbs 

i/s teaspoon pepper 

After removing com from the cob mix with milk, 
add seasonings and 1 tablespoon butter. 

Melt 2 tablespoons butter, add crumbs and line the 
bottom of a buttered baking dish with one-fourth of 
the amount. Then add one-half the com mixture and 
one-fourth more the crumbs. Add remainder of the 
corn and cover with buttered crumbs. Bake in a 
moderate oven 20 to 30 minutes to brown nicely on 
top. Serves 6 to 8. 



250 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

COWPEAS 

Cowpeas should be cooked soon after gathering, in 
order to preserve their fine flavor. Cook the green 
cowpeas (in pod or shelled) in boiling salted water 
until tender. Season and serve. Dried cowpeas should 
be soaked over night (7 or 8 hours), then boiled until 
tender. By absorbing water dried cowpeas increase 
in size until each cup makes nearly 2^ cups of cooked 
peas. 

TO PREPARE CUCUMBERS 

Wash, pare and cut thick slices from ends. Taste 
the cucumber to be sure it is not bitted. Keep very 
cold and slice thin just before serving. Serve as the 
salad accompanying meat or fish, and with potatoes 
or other starchy vegetables, 

SCALLOPED EGGPLANT 

1 eggplant 1 cup bread crumbs 

Vz small onion 3 tablespoons butter or 

54 teaspoon salt other fat 

Pepper 

Cut the eggplant in halves and cook in boiling salted 
water until tender. Drain carefully, remove the pulp 
from the shell and chop the pulp fine. Chop the onion 
and fry it in 2 tablespoons of the fat. Add onion and 
seasonings to the eggplant. Put into a well-greased 
dish and cover with buttered crumbs. Bake in a hot 
oven from 15 to 20 minutes until well browned on top. 

BOILED EGGPLANT 

Prepare as for scalloped eggplant, heat well after 
combining with the seasoning, omit the buttered 
crumbs and serve without baking. 



HOW TO PREPARE VEGETABLES 251 

FRIED EGGPLANT 

Cut the eggplant in slices about 54 i^ch thick, and 
pare. Sprinkle the slices with salt and pile them one 
upon the other, then put a plate with a weight on top 
of the slices. Let them stand an hpur, then remove 
weight and plate. Add 1 tablespoonful of water, half 
a tablespoonful salt, and one-fourth a teaspoonful pep- 
per to an egg. Beat well. Dip the slices of eggplant 
in the egg, then in dried bread crumbs. Fry till brown. 
Drain on absorbent paper. 

KALE 

Kale is used chiefly as greens ; being boiled and sea- 
soned much the same as cabbage. 

KALE BOILED WITH PORK 

Boil half a pound of salt pork gently for 3 or 4 hours. 
Pick kale over carefully, wash thoroughly, drain well 
and put on to boil with the pork. Boil rapidly for 
25 to 45 minutes. Serve the pork with the kale. Add 
more salt if necessary. 

Smoked bacon or ham may be substituted for the 
pork. Kale may also be cooked in water in which 
corned beef was boiled. 

MINCED KALE 

Remove all the old or tough leaves. Wash the kale 
thoroughly and drain, then put on to cook in a kettle 
of boiling water, to which has been added salt in pro- 
portion of 1 tablespoon to 4 quarts of water. Boil 
rapidly, with the cover off the kettle, until the vege- 
table is tender. Pour off the water and chop the kale 



252 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

rather fine; then put back into the kettle and add 1 
tablespoon of butter and 2 of meat broth or water for 
each pint of the minced vegetable. Add more salt if 
required. Cook for 10 minutes and serve at once. The 
time required for cooking kale varies from 30 to 50 
minutes. If young and fresh from the garden it will 
cook in 30 minutes. 

KOHL-RABI 

Kohl-Rabi should be used when young and tender, 
while the leaves are not more than 2 or 3 inches in 
diameter. The leaves are used as greens, but the root 
is the better part. 

BOILED KOHL.RABI 

(Adapted from Farmers' Bulletin No. 256) 

Wash and pare the vegetables, then cut in thin slices. 
Put into slightly salted boiling water and boil, with 
the cover partially off the saucepan, until the vegetable 
is tender. This will take from 30 to 50 minutes. Pour 
off the water and season with butter, salt and pepper. 

Kohl-rabi may be boiled with pork in the same way 
as kale. 

The cold boiled vegetable may be served as a s^lad. 

MUSTARD GREENS 

Follow the rule for cooking spinach, but add boiling 
water when the greens are put on to cook, and drain 
well after cooking. 

OKRA 

Okra is much valued in the Southern States as a 
vegetable and especially for use in soups. Combined 



HOW TO PREPARE VEGETABLES 253 

with chicken, okra forms the basis of the popular 
gumbo soups. It contains some carbohydrate and 
mineral matter, but its food value is not high, for it 
contains a very large proportion of water. 

BOILED OKRA 

The young pods of okra should be boiled in salted 
water until tender (about 20 minutes), drained and 
seasoned with butter, salt and pepper. Cream may 
be added if desired. 

OKRA AND TOMATO SOUP 

1 pint sliced okro 1 green pepper, seeds re- 
1% pints tomatoes, pared moved and peper cut 

and cut thin fine 

2 quarts water 3 teaspoons of salt 

3 tablespoons rice % teaspoon pepper 

3 tablespoons minced onion 2 tablespoons butter or 

other fat 

Put all the ingredients into the soup pot and cook 
gently for 2 hours, then add 2 tablespoons of butter 
or sweet drippings and serve. The bones from roast 
meat or broiled meat cooked with this soup add to the 
flavor. 

GUMBO SOUP 

1 chicken 1 quart okra pods 

Flour for dredging 1 quart sliced tomatoes 
Bacon or other fat Salt and pepper 

1 onion % cup rice 

Cut up the chicken as for fricassee, and dredge it 
thickly with flour. Slice the onion and cook in the 
hot fat till golden brown, then brown the sliced okra 
pods. 

Put the chicken, onion, okra, and sliced tomatoes 



254 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

into a kettle and simmer until chicken is tender. Re- 
move the large bones and the fat, season, and add the 
boiled rice. Serves 8 to 10. 

STEWED ONIONS 

1 quart onions 2 tablespoons butter 

54 cup milk 54 teaspoon salt 

White pepper 

Peel onions under cold water. Cook until tender in 
boiling water (45 to 60 minutes), changing the water 
at the end of 5 minutes, and again in 10 minutes. 
Drain, add milk, butter and pepper, cook 15 minutes, 
and just before serving add salt. Serves 6. 

FRIED ONIONS 

Remove the outer skins from the onions and slice 
them evenly or chop fine. Fry in hot fat until slightly 
browned. 

PARSNIPS 

Parsnips are among the most nutritious roots and 
can be kept for use throughout the winter and into 
the late spring, until they begin to sprout. They are 
rich in sugar and contain a good proportion of min- 
eral matter. They should be used with some food 
which supplies protein and with one of the fresh 
green vegetables. 

BOILED PARSNIPS 

Mash the cooked parsnips after skinning, season- 
ing with butter and salt. Plunge into cold water after 
cooking, and skins will slip off easily. 



HOW TO PREPARE VEGETABLES 255 

BUTTERED PARSNIPS 

Slice the cooked parsnips after skinning, season 
with butter, salt and pepper. Reheat and serve. 

MASHED PARSNIPS 

Mash the cooked parsnips after skinning, season 
with butter, salt and pepper. Reheat and serve. 

PARSNIP FRITTERS 

Mash the cooked parsnips after skinning, season 
with butter, salt and pepper; shape in small, flat 
round cakes, roll in flour, and brown in hot fat. 

PEAS 

The mature pea is one of the most valuable and 
nutritious vegetables. To prepare fresh peas, shell 
and cook with a small amount of boiling water, leav- 
ing the kettle uncovered so that the water will boil 
away at the last. Season with salt, pepper, and but- 
ter, add milk or cream if desired, or serve with a white 
sauce. 

GREEN PEA SOUP 

1 pint peas 2 tablespoons flour 

1 quart water 5^ teaspoon salt 

1 pint milk or cream 1/16 teaspoon white pepper 

2 tablespoons butter Yz teaspoon sugar 

Wash the peas and cook until soft in 1 quar? of 
boiling water. Mash them in the water in which they 
were cooked, strain, and add the milk or cream; melt 
butter, add flour and seasoning, then the liquid, and 
cook until of creamy consistency. If the peas are 
fresh, some of the pods may be cooked with them. 
Serves 8. 



256 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

DRIED PEA SOUP 

1 cup peas 3 tablespoons flour 
25^ quarts water 15^ teaspoons salt 

2 tablespoons chopped onion ]E/^.teaspon pepper 

3 tablespoons butter 1 pint milk 

Wash the peas and soak them overnight in cold 
water, drain, and rinse thoroughly; add 2J/^ quarts of 
cold water and the onion; cook slowly until soft, rub 
through a strainer and add the remainder of the 
liquid ; melt butter, add flour and seasonings, then hot 
milk with the liquid from the peas, and cook until it is 
like thick cream. Cooking a ham bone with the soup 
improves the flavor. Serves 6 to 8. 

GREEN PEPPERS 

Sweet green peppers are prepared for the table by 
stuffing and baking, as a foundation for salad and as a 
seasoning in meat preparations, salads, soups, and 
sauces. 

When peppers are to be used they should be well 
washed, tops removed and all seeds and inner mem- 
brane discarded. Eaten uncooked they frequently 
cause acute attacks of indigestion, and their use in 
salads is not recommended. 

STUFFED PEPPERS 

6 to 10 green peppers }i teaspoon salt 

2 cups cooked veal or chic- 1% cups cream 

ken, chopped CK lb.) 1% cups bread crumbs 

3 tablespoons butter 1% tablespoons butter (for 
3 tablespoons flour crumbs) 

Onion juice 

Cut the tops from the peppers. Remove the seeds. 
Make a white sauce of the butter, flour, onion juice, 
salt and cream. Add the veal and fill the peppers 



HOW TO PREPARE VEGETABLES 257 

with the mixture. Cover with buttered crumbs. Place 
peppers in a baking pan and cover the bottom of the 
pan with boiling water. Bake in a moderate oven one- 
half hour. Serve with tops for lids. Serves 6 to 10. 

POTATOES 

Potatoes are among the most valuable vegetables. 
Both sweet and white potatoes are rich in carbohy- 
drates in the form of starch and sugar and in mineral 
compounds much needed by the body. Potatoes may 
be used to advantage three times a day. The free use 
of potatoes lessens the use of bread. They may be 
cooked in a great variety of ways. Potatoes are 
served with meat or fish and a green or succulent 
vegetable. They may provide the largest portion of 
the meal. 

BAKED POTATOES 

Scrub potatoes carefully and place in a baking pan. 
Bake in a hot oven 40 to 60 minutes. When soft, 
break skin to let steam escape. Serve in an uncov- 
ered dish. 

BOILED POTATOES 

Scrub and boil potatoes with the jackets on, or 
wash and pare. Cover with boiling water. Boil slowly 
till tender (20 to 30 minutes), drain, shake gently, and 
dry at the back of the stove, leaving the saucepan un- 
covered. If skins have been left on, remove carefully 
while potatoes are hot. 

MASHED POTATOES 

6 potatoes 1 tablespoon butter 

% cup hot milk or cream 1 teaspoon salt 



258 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

Wash and pare potatoes, boil, drain, dry and mash 
(with a potato masher) in the saucepan in which they 
were cooked. Beat them until very light and creamy, 
add hot milk, butter and salt, and beat again, reheat 
and serve. Serves 6 to 8. 

POTATO CAKES 

Shape cold mashed potatoes into small round cakes, 
dip in flour, and brown in hot butter, beef drippings 
or other fat. 

CREAMED POTATOES 

2 cups cold boiled potatoes 1 recipe medium white sauce 

Parsley 

Cut cold boiled potatoes into dice and cover with 
medium white sauce, heat, garnish with chopped pars- 
ley, and serve. 

BOILED SWEET POTATOES 

Sweet potatoes are best boiled with the jackets on. 
The skin may be readily removed after boiling. The 
cellulose of sweet potatoes is easily softened. Twenty 
minutes' boiling may be sufficient. 

FRIED SWEET POTATOES 

Cut cold boiled potatoes in quarter-inch slices, sea- 
son with salt and papper ; put into a hot, well-greased 
frying pan, brown on one side, turn and brown on 
the other side. 

BAKED SWEET POTATOES 

Scrub potatoes carefully and place in a baking pan. 
Bake in a hot oven from 45 minutes to 1 hour. When 



HOW TO PREPARE VEGETABLES 259 

soft, break skin to let steam escape. Serve in an un- 
covered dish. 

GLAZED SWEET POTATOES 

6 sweet potatoes 4 tablespoons boiling water 

Yz cup sugar 1 tablespoon butter 

Scrub, pare, and boil potatoes 10 minutes in salted 
water; drain, cut in halves lengthwise, and put into 
a buttered baking pan. Make sirup of sugar and 
water, boil 3 minutes, add butter. Baste potatoes with 
sirup, put in hot oven and cook 15 minutes, or until 
browned, basting every 5 minutes. Serves 8 to 10. 

SALSIFY 

Salsify is one of the vegetables of value throughout 
the winter. Its food value is not high, but it contains 
some protein, carbohydrate, and mineral matter. Be- 
cause of its delicate flavor it makes a pleasing addi- 
tion to the diet. It can be used with meats and 
starchy vegetables. 

BOILED SALSIFY 

Wash, scrub and scrape the oyster plant, putting 
it directly into cold water to which a little vinegar 
has been added to prevent turning dark. Cut in small 
pieces, cook in boiling, salted water until tender (45 to 
60 minutes). Drain. Season with salt, pepper and 
butter. 

SALSIFY FRITTERS 

Mash the boiled salsify, season with butter, salt, 
and pepper. Shape in small flat cakes, roll in flour, 
and brown in butter. 



260 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

CREAMED SALSIFY 

Prepare boiled salsify and add to white sauce. 

SPINACH AND OTHER GREENS 

Spinach is one of the leaf vegetables most valuable 
for mineral matter. Used with a dinner of salt pork, 
dried beans, and corn bread, spinach is particularly 
acceptable. 

SPINACH 

Yz peck spinach other fat 

2 tablespoons butter or Yz teaspoon salt 

Ys teaspoon pepper 

Pick leaves from the stems and wash carefully to 
remove the sand. Cook uncovered without water until 
tender (about 30 minutes), stirring frequently at first, 
then chop fine or press through a colander; reheat 
with butter and seasoning. Serve garnished with 2 
hard-cooked eggs if desired. 

SQUASH 

The crookneck or summer squash should be used 
while fresh. Hubbard or winter squash is good 
through the winter months. Summer squash should 
be served at a meal consisting of white or sweet pota- 
toes, beans, or other dry vegetables. Winter squash 
may replace potatoes at a meal. 

Summer squash should be washed, broken into 
pieces and pared. Winter squash must be broken into 
pieces with a hatchet, and the shreds and seeds from 
the center removed. 



HOW TO PREPARE VEGETABLES 261 

BAKED SQUASH 

Wipe the outside shell of the squash, cut it into 
pieces for serving, remove seeds and stringy portion, 
place in a dripping pan, and bake in a slow oven until 
tender, about three-quarters of an hour. Serve at 
once. 

STEAMED SQUASH 

Prepare squash as for baking, put in steamer over 
boiling water, and cook until soft, about 30 minutes. 
Winter squash may require 40 minutes. Then scrape 
squash from shell, mash, and season with butter, salt 
and pepper. If very watery it may be necessary to 
press out part of the juice by squeezing the pieces of 
squash between the colander and a plate. 

SWISS CHARD 

The green tender leaves of Swiss chard are cooked 
as spinach is cooked. When the leaves are full grown 
the midribs may be cooked and served with cream 
sauce, following the recipe for creamed cabbage. Use 
Swiss chard with starchy vegetables, or with peas, 
beanS; or other legumes. 

TOMATOES 

(Method of keeping) 

Ripe tomatoes must be kept in a cold, dry place and 
very carefully handled or they will spoil easily. They 
are best if eaten soon after being gathered. If toma- 
toes are gathered before they are quite ripe, they can 
be kept much longer. They should be handled carefully, 
kept perfectly dry, and placed in the sun to ripen just 



262 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

before being used. Because of their juicy, acid nature, 
tomatoes should be served with meat, fish, or dried 
beans, and with a starchy vegetable such as potatoes. 
Before serving tomatoes should be washed carefully. 
They are nicest if the skins are removed. If tomatoes 
are well ripened the skin may be easily removed with 
the aid of a sharp paring knife. If the skins do not 
come off readily the tomatoes may be plunged for an 
instant in scalding hot water. All traces of core 
should be removed. 

SERVING 

If tomatoes are to be served raw, they should be 
washed, skinned, carefully freed from the core, and 
chilled. They are attractive served whole, cut in quar- 
ters, or sliced. They are palatable served with salt, 
with salt and vinegar, with salt, vinegar and salad oil, 
with cream and sugar, or with salad dressing. A few 
slices of cucumber may be served with the sliced toma- 
toes. The whole tomato may be slightly hollowed out 
and filled with salad dressing or with some salad prep- 
aration. 

STEWED TOMATOES 

1 pint tomatoes 1 teaspoon salt 

1 onion 1 tablespoon butter or 

Yq teaspoon pepper other fat 

Pour boiling water over tomatoes, drain and peel, 
cut into small pieces, add an onion and cook over mod- 
erate heat. A long, slow cooking (1 to 3 hours) im- 
proves the flavor. Just before removing from the stove 
add buter seasoning (salt and pepper). Bread or 
cracker crumbs may be used for thickening, and sugar 
added if desired. Serves 6. 



HOW TO PREPARE VEGETABLES 263 

SCALLOPED TOMATOES 

1 quart tomatoes, sliced ^ teaspoon pepper 

2 cups stale bread crumbs 2 tablespoons butter or 
1 tablespoon salt other fat 

Melt the fat and add crumbs and seasonings. 

Line the bottom of a well-greased baking dish with 
one-fourth the crumbs, then add half the tomatoes. 
Add another fourth of the crumbs and remainder of 
tomatoes. Cover with the remainder of the crumbs. 
Bake in a moderate oven 1 hour. Cover the first 30 
minutes. Serves 6 or 8. 

STUFFED TOMATOES 

6 tomatoes 1 tablespoon chopped pars- 

1% cups stale bread crumbs ley 

3 tablespoons butter or ^2 teaspoon onion juice 

other fat ^A teaspoon salt 

% teaspoon pepper 

Wipe tomatoes and remove a thin slice from stem 
end. Take from the center the seeds and pulp and 
sprinkle the cavity with salt. Melt the fat, add to 
bread crumbs, then add tomato pulp, parsley, onion 
juice, and seasonings. Fill the tomatoes with the mix- 
ture, place them in a shallow dish, and bake 15 min- 
utes in a hot oven. Serves 6. 

TURNIPS 

The turnip is a winter vegetable valuable in fur- 
nishing variety to the table. It has a heavy outer 
covering, hence must be pared with a thick paring. 
Turnips supply needed bulk, some mineral matter, 
and a large amount of water and should be used at £ 
meal with potatoes and similar vegetables. 



264 FOOD EFFICIENCY 

MASHED TURNIPS 
6 turnips 1 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon butter 

Wash and pare turnips, boil, drain, dry thoroughly, 
and mash (with a potato masher) in the saucepan in 
which they were cooked. Beat them until very light, 
add butter, and salt and beat again, reheat and serve. 
Serves 6 to 8, 

CREAMED TURNIPS 
1 pint turnips, pared, boiled 1 recipe white sauce 
and diced 

TURNIP SAXAD 

Dice cold boiled turnips, dress with cooked dress- 
ing, chill thoroughly, and serve on a lettuce leaf or 
with other salad green. 



