


TX 821 
.S4 I 

Copy 1 2.en Dainty Recipes 
for Preparing 
War Department 

' Canned 
Meats 



By 

MRS. ANNA B. SCOTT 

Foremost Food Economist 




^)-?(..'^l'? 



Issued by the WAR DEPARTMENT :: December, 1920 ,,. 












LIBHARY OFCONGRESS" 









<Kf) 




MRS. ANNA B. SCOTT, 

I 

Well-knov\Ti Food Economist. 
For more than ]0 years Mrs. Scott has been the cooking 
expert and food economist of the Philadelphia North 
American. She has had phenomenal success in pro- 
ducing highly palatable and nutritious meals, at a very 
low cost, over a period of many years during which she 
was engaged in the business of operating public eating 
houses. She is now devoting her entire time in teaching 
the American housewife to produce for the family better 
food at a lower cost in labor and money. 

During her connection with the North American Mrs. 
Scott has written many special articles, including menus 
for commercial concerns interested in introducing new 
kinds of prepared food. She also has been employ'ed by 
Government agencies to prepare menus for new foods 
introduced in this country, and to instruct the public in 
the use of foods placed on sale by the Government since 
the close of the war. Mrs. Scott has organized a cooking 
club, which comprises more than 20,000 members. These 
members call upon her for personal direction. 

22615—20 (3) 



The recipes included in this book under her name are 
the result of a series of tests made in her laboratory and 
kitchen everv one of which was carefully analyzed and 
tried out They represent a dozen of the best dishes Mrs. 
Scott could suggest from something like a score which she 
tested and found tasty. 

FOREWORD. 

War Department canned meats— corned beef, corned 
beef hash, roast beef, and bacon-are being offered to the 
American public by the Quartermaster Department at 
prices considerably below existing market quotations. 
These meats are not being retailed by the" Government. 
For more than a year 77 Army quartermaster retail stores 
and branches sold them in small quantities across the 
counter Recently, however, when the Army reorgani- 
zation was accomplished and the needs of the nfew military 
forces definitely ascertained, several million dollars' 
worth were declared surplus, made available for sale, and 
offered to the public. Because of the large amount and 
the desire of the Secretary of War to throw all the force of 
the War Department into the campaign to reduce the cost 
of living, the meats were offered to the wholesale and retail 
trades at prices which mil permit them to be resold at 
figures much below those obtaining elsewhere and still 
realize a reasonable profit. 

There is no question as .to the high quality of War 
Department meats. Packed by the leading packing 
houses of North and South America, from the choicest 
cuts, they were prepared under special supervision, not 
only froni the packers, but from the United States Govern- 
ment. The American Army, at home and abroad, found 
these meats in their daily rations . A healthier or brawnier 
set of men than those returning from overseas never has 
been seen, they thrived on War Department canned 
meats, often going for weeks with nothing to eat except 
these products . They tasted good in France . That same 
flavor, that same high nutritive value and quahty is 
found in them to-day. 

RECIPES ALL TESTED. 

On the following pages will be found an even dozen of 
recipes selected from among a score of excellent ones which 
show the possibilities of these products. These meats 
should form a part of the menu in every home. They are 
much cheaper than other canned meats, although both 



were packed by the same packing house. Tbey are nutri- 
tive and they are appetizing. 

The War Department already has sold millions of dollars 
worth of these meats. Thousands of persons who have 
until now known canned meats only as a name recognize 
them as valuable additions to their daily rations. 

If the dealers of the United States have not taken ad- 
vantage of the War Department offerings, it is their own 
fault. The consuming public is urged to ask its dealers 
to lay in a supply of these meats as long as they last. If 
the dealer hasn't them, he can get them. Six Army sup- 
ply bases, located in reasonable hauls of every section of 
the country, will accept orders for as little as $250 worth 
of nreats. The W^ar Department gives its guarantee to 
stand behind every can that is sold. 

If the American public is desirous of reducing its cost 
of living it will avail itself of the opportunity offered by 
the Government. If the dealers in any locality have 
failed to place orders it is to the advantage of their patrons 
to insist that they do so. * 

War Department canned meats are tasty; they are nu- 
tritious; they are cheap. Serve them in your home; ask 
for them in cafes, restaurants, hotels, on dining cars, steam- 
ships, and wherever food is served. And ask for them by 
name— "WAR DEPARTMENT CANNED MEATS." 

TALK TO YOUR DEALER. 

Look for the dealer who carries War Department canned 
meats. Unless he has laid in a stock he is not doing him- 
self justice or you. Look for the red, white, and blue 
posters in stare windows. Until the consumers in general 
are determined to reduce the cost of living and effect a 
sa"\dng for themselves prices can not be reduced. 

In offering these meats to the public the Government is 
doing its utmost to place them in American pantries and 
kitchens in the most direct way. 

Labels do not appear on all the cans. Order the meats 
by name— WAR DEPARTMENT— however. Very few, 
if any, dealers will decline to carry them once they under- 
stand the advantages to both themselves and their cus- 
tomers. Every dealer should take advantage of the offer. 
You should see that he does. Order from your dealer, 
and if he can not supply you ask yoiu- depot quartermaster 
for the name of a dealer who can. Unless there is coopera- 
tion the public will not derive as great a benefit from the 
sale as is otherwise possible. 



A DOZEN DAINTY RECIPES. 

By Mrs. Anna B. Scott. 

CANNED BEEF CROQUETS WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 

2 cups canned roast beef. 

2 cups cold boiled rice. 

1 cup cream sauce. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

Pepper to taste. 

I teaspoon grated nutmeg. 

1 tablespoon finely chopped parsley. 

Breadcrumbs and one egg. 
Put meat and rice through food chopper; add sauce and 
other ingredients; mix well;. spread on plate; put in cold 
place. When cold and firm, take a tablespoon into floured 
hands and mold into cones or oblong shapes. After all are 
molded dip in well-beaten egg, which has been mixed 
with one tablespoon- of milk; then in fine bread crumbs. 
Fry in very hot fat or cooking oil. 

This recipe is sufficient for a family of four. 

BAKED MEAT PIE NO. 2 MADE FROM CANNED BEEF. 

. 2 cups canned roast beef. 
1 cup rice. 
1 cup tomatoes. 
1 tablespoon grated onion. 
1 teaspoon salt. 

Dash paprika and chopped parsley. 
Wash the rice and put on to boil in three cups of boiling 
water; when thick add the tomato, onion, and seasoning; 
cook again until thick; add the meat; brush deep bake 
dish, pudding pan, or casserole with a little butter; put in 
mixture and cover top with crust made as follows: 

Sift one cup flour with one rounded teaspoon baking 
powder, a few grains of salt; rub in one teaspoon shorten- 
ing lightly and add enough cold milk to make a stiff 
dough; put on floured board and roll out one-quarter inch 
thick; cover pie; brush top with milk. Bake 20 to 25 
minutes in a moderate oven. This makes a substantial 
dish. 

This recipe is enough for a family of four. 

CANNED CORN BEEF WITH CREAMED CABBAGE. 

2J cups canned corn beef. 

1 head of cabbage (about 1 pound). 

1 teaspoon salt. 

Pepper and paprika. 

1 cup cream sauce. 

(6) 



Cut the cabbage into small pieces and cover with cold 
water for 30 minutes; drain and cover with boiling water 
and boil 30 to 35 minutes in uncovered vessel; drain and 
cover with cream sauce, seasoned to taste; mix well and 
boil 3 minutes. 

Wliile the cabbage is cooking the canned corned beef is 
heated in the can. 

The canned corn beef is put in center of platter and the 
creamed cabbage around the edge. Sprinkle all with pap- 
rika and garnish with parsley. 

This recipe is sufficient for a family of four. 

BAKED MEAT LOAF WITH PEAS. 

2 cups canned roast beef. 
2 cups stale bread. 
1 cup cold boiled potatoes. 

1 tablespoon grated onion or one-half teaspoon nut- 
meg. 
1 tablespoon drippings or oil. 
1 teaspoon salt. 

1 teaspoon paprika. 

2 tablespoons finely chopped parsley. 

Soak the bread in cold water a few minutes, press be- 
tween the hands until dry; put in pan with the potatoes, 
which have been put through fruit press or potato ricer 
with the drippings and onions; cook until heated through; 
add the meat, which has been put through the food chopper, 
the seasoning and flavoring; mix well; put into small well- 
greased pan; bake 30 minutes. 

Put in center of chop plate with small boiled potatoes 
arotmd; cover with white sauce and the green peas around 
the potatoes. This makes a most attractive dish. 

This recipe is sufficient for a family of foiur. 

CANNED ROAST BEEF WITH BROWN SAUCE. 

2 cups canned roast beef . 

1 tablespoon butter or substitute. 

1 tablespoon flour. 

1 tablespoon grated onion or one-half teabpoon 
grated nutmeg. 

2 tablespoons raw carrot. 

2 tablespoons finely chopped parsley. 
1 tablespoon caramel. 
1 teaspoon salt. 
Dash paprika. 
1 cup lamb stock or milk. 
Put the butter, onion, and carrot into saucepan. Cook 
until onion is tender, but not brown; remove from fire; 



add flour and stir until smooth; return to fire; add cold 
stock or milk slowly; stir until smooth and boil 5 min- 
utes; add seasoning, pour over the meat, and place on 
stove to heat through. Serve on toast or toast points 
sprinkled with the parsley. 

This recipe is sufficient for a family of four. 

BAKED BEEF PIE MADE FROM CANNED ROAST BEEF. 

2 cups canned roast beef. 

2 cups boiled potatoes. 

1 tablespoon fat or oil. 

3 tablespoons chopped onion. 

2 tablespoons chopped green pepper. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

2 cups rice stock. 

Place the fat, onion, and pepper in saucepan. Cook 
until tender, but not brown. Add rice stock. Pour over 
the meat and potatoes; mix well, and place in baking dish 
which has been lined with dough made as follows: 1^ cups 
flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder, h teaspoon salt, 1 tea- 
spoon shortenting. 

Sift the flour, baking powder, and salt in bowl; add 
shortening and rub in very lightly; add sufficient milk to 
make dough that will roll out; line the baking dish and 
make cover for pie; bakd 35 minutes. 

This recipe is sufficient for a family of four. 

CANNED CORN-BEEF HASH ON TOAST. 

2 cups canned corn beef. 
1 cup strained tomatoes;. 

1 teaspoon scrapped onion. 
Salt and pepper to tast^. ' 

2 tablespoons finely c opped parsley or celery top. 
Chop the canned corn beef fine; put into saucepan; add 

tomatoes, flavoring, and seasoning; put over fire and heat; 
cover platter with toasted bread; cover bread with corn- 
beef hash and sprinkle with parsley and celery top. 
This recipe is sufficient for a family of four. 

CANNED CORN BEEF WITH CABBAGE SALAD. 

1 can of corn beef. 
1 tablespoon mustard. 
1 quart of cabbage salad. 

1 hard-boiled egg. 

2 tablespoons chopped parsley or celery top. 

Put the canned corn beef through food chopper; add 
musfard and mix well; take a spoonful of mixture and 
form into balls or cone shapes and roll in finely chopped 
hard-boiled egg; place the meat in center of chop plate 



9 

and put the cabbage salad around: sprinkle with chopped 
parsley. 
Cabbage salad is made as follpvvs: 

1 green pepper. 

4 cups finely cut cabbage. 

1 cup French dressing or salad dressing of choice. 

2 tablespoons dried celery leaves or fresh chopped 
celery. 

Put the pepper through the food chopper and add to 
the cabbage; add the dressing and celery leaves or one 
tablespoon of celery seed; mix well. The seasoning is 
put in the dressing — ] teaspoon salt, \ teaspoon pepper, 1 
teaspoon of dried mustard, 2 teaspoons sugar. 

Tlus recipe is sufficient for a family of four. 

CANNED CORN BEEF FOR SANDWICHES. 

2 cups canned corn beef. • 

1 tablespoon made mustard. 

2 tablespoons finely chopped stuffed olives or 
pickles. 

Put the meat through food chopper; add mustard and 
olives; mix well; spread between bread. This mixture 
can be made and put into jelly glasses and will keep 8 
to 10 days in a cold place. 

CANNED CORN BEEF MADE INTO CAKES WITH SAUCE OF 

CHOICE. 

2 cups canned corn beef. 

2 cups cold boiled oat meat (stiff) . 

2 tablespoons scraped onion. 

2 tablespoons finely chopped parsley. 

1 tablespoon "Worcestershire sauce. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

J teaspoon paprika, 
legg. 
Put the meat through food chopper; add the stiff, cold- 
boiled oat meal, seasoning, and well-beaten egg; mix well 
together; form into small cakes; roll in flour and fry in 
cooking oil until a nice brown. If there is a hot oven, put 
a little drippings or butter substitute on top and bake 20 
to 25 minutes. Serve with sauce of choice. 
This recipe is sufficient for a family of four. 

MINCED CANNED BEEF ON TOAST. 

2 cups canned roast beef. 
1 cup cream sauce. 

1 tablespoon chopped green peppers or celery. 

2 tablespoons tomato catsup. 

2 tablespoons finely chopped parsley or celery top. 



10 

Chop the meat quite fine and add to the cream sauce; 
let it come to a boil; then add the pepper or celery and 
catsup, salt, and pepper to taste. Cover platter with 
nicely toasted bread; then cover with the minced meat; 
sprinkle with parsley or celery top and garnish with sprigs 

of parsley. 
This recipe is sufficient for the family of four. 

FRICADELLA MADE FROM CANNED ROAST BEEF. 

2 cups canned roast beef. 
2 cups bread crumbs. 

1 egg. 

1 teaspoon salt, dash pepper. 

2 tablespoons grated or scraped onion. 
1 tablespoon chopped parsley. 

Put the meat through food chopper; add salt, pepper, 
bread crumbs that have been wet with a little cold water, 
the well-beaten egg, onion juice, and parsley; mix well 
and form. into flat cakes. Sprinkle with flour. 

Brush bake pan with a little drippings; put in the frica- 
della and place in a hot oven 15 to 18 minutes. After re- 
moving fricadella from pan, add 1 tablespoon flour wet with 
a little cold water, and one tablespoon caramel, seasoning 
to taste, and enough rice stock or water to make 1 cupful 
of gravy. 

This recipe is sufficient for a family of four. 

HOW TO PREPARE ARMY BACON. 

By an Army ex-cook. 
FRIED BACON. 

Place strips of thinly cut bacon on a board and with a 
broad-bladed knife cut the strips into narrow slices. Put 
in hot frying pan and cook until bacon is crisp and brown, 
occasionally poming off fat from pan, turning often. 
Drain on brown paper. 

BROILED BACON. 

Place thin slices of bacon, from which rind has been re- 
moved, closely together in a fine wire broiler; place broiler 
over dripping pan and bake in hot oven until bacon is 
crisp and brown, turning once. Drain on brown paper. 
Fat which has dripped into pan can be used for frying liver, 
eggs, and potatoes. 

LIVER AND BACON. 

Cover with boiling water slice of liver cut one-half inch 
thick; let stand 5 minutes to draw out the blood; drain, 
wipe, and remove the thin outside skin and veins; add 



11 

small strips of bacon: sprinkle with salt and pepper: place 
in a greased wire broiler 5 minutes, tui-ning often. 

To obtain the best results from War Department bacon it 
is recommended that the meat, when taken from can, be 
immersed in cold water, placed upon a heater, and allowed 
to remain until the water nears the boiling point. Then 
remove it and rinse it in cold water. 

WHERE TO BUY. 

Look for the red, white, and blue poster describing War 
Department canned meats. The dealer who displays this 
poster in his store is doing his bit to help this campaign 
along. He is the dealer from whom you should buy; you 
not only will sa^e money on every can bought, but you, 
too, will be doing your part in lowering li\dng costs. 

DETAILS OF SALE. 

These are the wholesale prices and terms of sale to your 
dealer. The corned beef, corned-beef hash, and roast beef 
are packed mainly in 1 and 2 pound cans; some in 6-pound 
cans. The bacon is packed in 12-pound cans. Prices are 
as follows, f. o. b. storage point, subject to the discounts 
named for quantity purchases: 

CORNED BEEP. 

Per can. 

No. 1 cans |0. 15 

No. 2 cans 27 

1-pound cans 18 

6-pound cans 1. 00 

BACON. 

12-pound cans (per can) $2. 50 

Crates (approximating 100 pounds). 

In slabs (per pound) 19 

CORNED-BEEF HASH. 

Per can. 

1-pound cans |0. 15 

2-pound cans 38 

ROAST BEEP. 

Per can. 

No. 1 cans $0. 09 

No. 2 cans 18 

1-pound cans 12 

2-pound cans 24 

6-pound cans , .70 



12 



SAUSAGE. 

Per can. 

No. 2 cans, Park $0. 25 

No. 2 cans, Vienna 25 

Table of discounts for quantity purchases made at one 
time.— $250 to $1,000, net; |1,001 to |2,500, 5 per cent; 
12,501 to $4,000, 10 per cent; $4,001 and over, 20 per cent; 
or full carload lots shipped at Government expense if value 
of full carload is less than $4,001. ■ 

TERMS. 

Ten per cent with order, and the remainder in 90 days on 
bankers' acceptance. Further discounts as follows are au- 
thorized to customers ordering or reorderins: in carload lots, 
the value of all purchases of canned meats made on or after 
November 15, 1920, only, to be considered with this scale 
of discounts: 

When purchases reach $50,001, 24 per cent net to prevail. 

When purchases reach $100,001, 28 per cent net to 
prevail. 

When purchases reach 1500,001, 32 per cent net to 
prevail. 

When purchases reach $1,000,001 and over, 35 per cent 
net to prevail. 

This means that the total purchase by a customer in car- 
load lots from time to time will be taken into consideration 
and the proper discount applied on the sum of all the pur- 
chases, including the first carload lot. 

The Government reserves the riijht to deliver meats ap- 
proximating the amount ordered if for any reason it can not 
deliver the order complete. All goods offered subject to 
prior sale. Prices are subject to change without notice. 
Order at once fi'om your nearest depot quartermaster. 

DEPOT QUARTERMASTERS. 

Brooklyn, N. Y., 59th Street Boston, Army Supply Base. 

and First Avenue. San Antonio, Tex. 

Chicago, 1819 West Thirty- San Francisco, Calif. 

ninth Street. 
Atlanta, Ga., Transportation 

Building, 

Chief, Surplus Property Branch, Ofhce of the Quar- 
termaster General, Munitions Building, Washington, D. C. 



WASHINGTON : GOVERXMENT PRI.NTING OFFICE : 1920 



o 
o 

CO 

lT 
en 

D 

hi 
\- 
<■ 
> 

E 

Q. 

ir 



u. 

>- 

h 
_l 
< 
Z 
LJ 
0. 



ml:Z?r'°-o,es. 




° °'4 524 839 



5 ^ 



H 

Z 
LiJ 

:s 

h- 

< 

Q. 
UJ 

Q 

a: 
< 



z 
o 
P m 

U III 

u -I 
go 

O It 

^£ 
2" 

"■ q: 
J - 

< LlJ 

to o 

■ IL 
IL U. 

UJ 

X 

u 



u 

O 

?Q 

Q 

5Z 

CD 

z I 
s < 



